# Heavy metal recovery in ferrous metal production processes.

## Abstract
A process for the production of ferrous metals or alloys thereof in which Zn and other heavy metals are recovered from the iron bearing flue dust and the iron dust residue is returned to the furnace. The iron bearing flue dust is first separated from the furnace flue gases and leached in an alkali metal hydroxide solution having a concentration greater than 5m and pulp density of 1 1.5 to 1 8 at a temperature between 80 C and the boiling point of the solution. The residue is then separated from the pregnant solution and washed before it is returned to the furnace. After purification and clarification of the pregnant solution, the Zn and other heavy metals are recovered to regenerate the solution which is subsequently recycled. After the iron dust residue has been washed it may be roasted with sodium carbonate at above 700 C and leached in a caustic solution. Also, the flue dust may be subject to a dilute leach the dilute leach residue then being reducted by roasting prior to the main leached step.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for the production of ferrous metals or alloys thereof in which iron bearing flue dust containingZn and optionally other heavy metals is generated in a furnace, and including an extraction stage which comprises the steps of separating the iron bearing dust from the furnace flue gases leaching the dust in an alkali metal hydroxide solution having a concentration greater than 5M, and a pulp density of 1 5 to 1 8 at a temperature in the range 80 C to the boiling point of the solution, to dissolve Zn and other heavy metals present separating the pregnant alkali metal hydroxide solution from the residue washing the residue to remove the alkali metal k hydroxide and returning the iron dust residue to the furnace purifying and clarifying the pregnant alkali metal hydroxide solution recoverying the Zn and other heavy metals present to regenerate the alkali metal hydroxide solution and recycling the alkali metal hydroxide solution for re use in the leaching step. 2. A process according to claim 1 wherein the concentration of the alkali metal hydroxide solution in the main leaching step is from 8 to 16M. 3. A process according to claim 2 wherein the said concentration is from 10 to 14M. 4. A process according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein purification and clarification of the pregnant alkali metal hydroxide solution is effected by cementation with metallic Zn. 5. A process according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein before returning the iron dust residue to the furnace, the residue is roasted with sodium carbonate at a temperature above 700 C, and again leached in a caustic solution. 6. A process according to any one of claims 1 to 5, comprising pre leaching the dust in a dilute alkali metal fiydroxide solution. 7. A process according to claim 6 and comprising separating the pregnant alkali metal hydroxide solution produced by pre leaching from the residue, and reducing the residue by roasting prior to the main leaching step. 8. A process according to claim 7 wherein the residue is roasted in a reducing atmosphere. 9. A process according to claim 7 or claim 8 wherein the residue is roasted with carbonaceous material at from 8000 to 11000G. 10. A process according to any one of claims 1 to 9 in which recovery of the Zn and or other heavy metals to regenerate the solution, is by electrowinning. 11. A process according to any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein the iron dust residue is formed into pellets before being returned to the furnace. 12. A process according to any one of claims 1 to 11, in which separation of the pregnant alkali metal hydroxide solution from the residue is at least partly effected by filtration at a temperature in excess of 6O0C. 13. A process according to any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein magnetic materials are removed from the feedstock by magnetic separation prior to leaching. 14. A process according to claim 13 wherein the feedstock is in the form of a slurry having a solids content of between 0.1 to 25 by weight. 15. A process according to claim 13 or elaim 14 wherein magnetic separation is effected under essentially neutral slurry conditions at or new ambient temperature. 16. A process according to any one of claims 13 to 15 wherein the feedstock slurry is mixed with a frothing agent and subject to a preliminary floatation separation prior to magnetic separation. 17. A process according to any one of claims 13 to 16 wherein the magnetic material, are removed by two stages of magnetic separation. 18. A process according to claim 17 wherein separation is effected by passing the slarry through magnetic fields respectively having an intensity of 2000 and 8000 Gauss. 19, A process according to any one of claims 1 to 18 wherein the step of separating the pregnant alkali metal ,hydroxide solution from the residue comprises at least one high intensity magnetic separation stage. 20. A process according to claim 19 wherein the said high intensity magnetic separation stage is effected in an electromagnetic separator. 21. A process according to claim 19 or claim 20 wherein the said high intensity separation stage is preceded by a preliminary magnetic separation stage at lower intensity. 22. A process according to claim 21 wherein the preliminary separation stage is effected in a rotating drum concentrator using permanent magnets. 23. A process according to claim 21 or claim 22 wherein the said lower intensity is less than 12000 Gauss.

## Description
This invention relates to a process for the production of ferrous metals or alloys thereof, in which iron bearing flue dust, containing Zn and optionally other heavy metals, is generated in a furnace. Iron containing dusts produced by blast furnaces, arc furnaces and steel making plant contain zinc and lead and vary in composition depending on the nature of the charge used and the propor tion of scrap and upon the degree to which the zinc and lead levels have been allowed to build up in the furnace. Such dusts generally have a particle size of 95 5 microns, or finer. According to current blast furnace practice, blast furnace dusts are in the first instance recycled through the blast furnace zinc levels tend however to build up in the dust, and these high levels of zinc cause corrosion of the furnace linings. Therefore, after a certain pcriod of operation those dusts which contain excessively high zinc levels cannot be recycled further without damage and they are disposed of by dumping, which causes environmentl pollution. In oxygen steel making processes, dusts also arise and these are not generally recycled, but are merely dumped the zinc level in the dumped dust also represents and environmental pollution hazard, and depends on the quality of the scrap used. Similarly, arc furnace flue dusts vary in composition depending on the furnace charge. Zinc levels in arc furnace flue dusts are in general higher than those of blast furnace dusts, and similar problems arise in dumping of dusts. The dust which has been dumped may be treated to recover the heavy metal values, either for commercial utilisation or to remove them as an environmental hazard. Known methods for extracting these heavy metals include pyrometallurgical techniques and acid extraction.The disadvantages of pyrometallurgical techniques are the high capital expenditure on plant, the high running costs due to energy consumption and the air pollution resulting from the process. Acid extraction techniques have the disadvantage that acids which cannot economically be regenerated are consumed, and that waste materials which involve disposal costs are produced. in addition, both pyrometallurgical processes and acid extractions have the disadvantage that only limited ranges of materials can. be mixed and processed at one time. Previous attempts have been made to use an alkaline extracting process for the extraction of heavy metals but these attempts have not resul ted in a sufficiently high extraction efficiency, and have not been pursued Such previous attempts utilised a very oncentrated alkaline extraction which was not sufficiently selective and did not provide an economically viable percentage extraction. An object of the present invention is therefore to provide a process for the extraction of Zn and optionally other heavy metals from materials containing them which provides sufficiently high extraction efficiency, involves realatively low capital and operating expenditure and permits a range of materials to be mixed and processed at one time. It is also an object of the invention to provide a cyclic process for the extraction of heavy metals by alkaline extraction in which the components can be recovered and reused. In the process according to the invention, the ability of alkali metal hydroxides, in particular sodium hydroxide to dissolve heavy metals and their compounds, in particular where the metals are zinc and lead to form, for example, sodium zincate and sodium plumbate in solution, is utilised to give an extraction process of high efficiency and selectivity. According to this invention a process for the production of ferrous metal or alloys thereof in which iron bearing flue dust containing zinc and optionally other heavy metals is generated in a furnace, includes a process for the production of ferrous metals or alloys thereof in which iron bearing flue dust containing Zn and optionally Other heavy metals is generated in a furnace, and including an extraction stage which comprises the steps of separating the iron bearing dust from the furnace flue gases leaching the dust in an alkali metal hydroxide solution having a concentration greater than 5M, and a pulp density of 1 5 to 1.8 preferably 1 3 to 1 8, at a temperature in the range 80 C to the boiling point of the solution, to dissolve Zn and other heavy metals present separating the pregnant alkali metal hydroxide solution from the residue washing the residue to remove the alkali metal hydroxide and returning the iron dust residue to the furnace purifying and clarifying the pregnant alkali metal hydroxide solution recovering the Zn and other heavy metals present to regenerate the alkali metal hydroxide solution and recycling the alkali metal hydroxide solution for re use in the leaching step.The pulp density is a measure of the solid content of the pulp and expressed either as a ratio by weight of the solid to liquid content or as a percentage of the total weight of pulp. For optimum operating conditions, the alkali metal hydroxide concentration is 8 to 16M and preferably 10 to 14M. The boiling point of the alkali metal hydroxide solution depends on the concentration, and with hydroxide concentrations at the higher end of the preferred range, the boiling point may be as high as 140 C. The operating temperature may be increased by working under pressure.Operating at high temperature is preferred, because the extraction tends to be more selective at higher temperatures, tile rate of reaction is increased and the viscosity of hydroxide solution is reduced, making the materials easier to handle.. Filtration of the pregnant alkali metal hydroxide solution is preferably effected at temperature in excess of 60 C. The precise conditions required to gie optimum results depend on the material being treated. there impurities other than zinc are present in the pregnant alkali metal hydroxide solution, purification may be initiated before the non ferrous metal is recovered. A preferred purification technique is by cementation with jmetallic zinc preferably in the form of dust. Suitable techniques for heavy metal recovery from the sodium hydroxide solution include electrowinning precipitation in the form of the carbonate with carbon dioxcide or carbonic acid or precipitation in the form of the sulphide with hydrogen sulphide or sulphide ions. In a preferred embodiment of the process according to the invention, the flue dust is a. basic oxygen steel making BOS dust, a blast furnace dust or dn arc furnace dust. In many large scale iron and steelmaking operations the hot off gases are subjected to both wet and dry cleaning processes and the dust feedstock to a recovery plant will include dust from both sources. In the process according to this invention, magnetic materials may be removed from the feedstock by magnetic separation, prior to leaching and preferably, in a magnetic field having an intensity of up to 12000 Gauss. The feedstock is generally in the form of slurries having solids contents typically in the range o.l to 25 by weight. Since the dewatering of these slurries is essential before processing, the incorporation of magnetic separation into the system offers seyeral processing advantages. The arisings from an integrated steelworks can consit of dusts and slurries from blast furnaces, basic oxygen steelmaking, electric arc furnaces, cast house dusts, mill scale and other arisings. The total arisings can be over 100,000 tpa tons annum , of which the most highly contaminated proportion from the arc furnaces, is of the order of 10. In this type of feedstock the zinc and lead level is typically 1 3 , the soluble proportion of which has to be removed to be suitable for ground disposal of recycling. The requirement for the recovery plant is to prevent the pollution that ground disposal of unprocessed material would create by recycling the best available iron oxide to the steel plant, and remove leachable non ferrous materials to produce an environmentally acceptable inert waste for dumping of non recycled material. Since the quantities of solid availabie in the slurry form predominate, direct processing would lead to the introduction into the leaching operation of unacceptable quantities of water, even after filtration. Alternabively a drying operation would be required. The former would be expensive in terms of the chemical losses necessitated in maintaining a water balance and the latter in terms of energy and extra capital involved. The introduction of magnetic separation will allow the recovery of the bulk of the feedstock, typically 50 75 , which will contain up to 90 of the iron in the solids. The smaller portion containing tne low susceptibility non ferrous material can then be leached for the recovery of these values. This whole process is carried out under essential neutral pH7 slurry conditions, at or close to ambient temperature. Filtration is therefore facilitated and the rates are higher than those for leach liquor filtration. The solid arisings from iron and steelmaking and ancillary processes are composed of three main groups of chemical compounds, these are iron oxides, ferritic materials, and iron containing silicaceous materials e.g. refractories. In addition, there are the oxides of certain base metals such as zinc and lead, and steel alloying and impurity elements, manganese, vanadium phosphorus etc. Each of these materials has a different magnetic susceptibility as a physical property, and individual particles will have differing susceptibilities depending on any iron content that they may have. It is therefore possible that by the successive application of various levels of magnetic intensity, a segregation in magnetic terms, which in practice means iron content, can be effected.With a final high intensity stage all solid particles can be removed from the slurry. We therefore propose to separate the pregnant alkali metal hydroxide solution from the residue by at least one high intensity magnetic separation stage. Embodiments of the invention will now be further described with reference to the following examples and vith reference to the accompanying drawings, of which Figures 1 to 3 are graphs shwoing the extraction obtained under various conditions in example I Figures 4 to 6 are graphs showing the extraction under various conditions, in example II Figure 7 is a flow diagram of an extraction stage Figure 8 is a flow diagram of a steel production process including an extraction stage such as illustrated in Figure 7 Figure 9 is a flow diagram of a dust recovery process in which the feedstock slurry is subjected to two stages of magnetic separation prior to leaching Figure 10 is a graph of the proportion of dust inGrade against magnetic susceptibility i.e. the inverse of field strength in K gauss, showing the variations in magnetic susceptibility with origin of the dust and Figure 11 is a flow diagram of an iron dust recovery process.EXAMPLE 1 A BOS dust of the following weight composition was obtained from British Stee Corporation FeO 85 Mn 1.650 0 Fe2O3 O. 4 S 0.1456 SiO2 83. 5 P 0. 25 CaO 5.7 Zn 2.5 MgO 0.9 Pb 0.25 A12O3 0.5 Cu 0.01 The material was a fine dark magnatic powder of specific gravity of 4.4, and was pyrophoric, confirmingX ray power photographs indicating the iron to be present as FeO. The material was extremely fine, 73 being less than 45 micron. Figure 1 shows the zinc and iron extraction versus log molar sodium hydroxide concentration, at a temperature of 120 C and a pulp density of 40 . Figure 2 shows the zinc extraction versus log pulp density, expressed in g litre, at a temperature of 90 C and a sodium hydroxide concentration of lOM. Figure 3 shows the zinc extration versus temperature, at a pulp density of 400,b and a sodium hydroxide concentration of lOM. From this data, it was decided that a sodium hydroxide solution concentration of lOM Log molar concn 1.0 at a temperature of about 1200C Log Temp 2 would result in satisfactory zinc extraction, resulting in an extraction per step of about 70 at a pulp density of 40 the efficiency of a three step extraction would therefore be 75. The percentages of zinc and iron were determined by analysis, using atomic absorption spectrophotometry. EXAMPLE 2 An arc furnace flue dust having the following composition was investigated. Because the furnace was charged with low grade scrap, the sample had a high zinc content. Fe 20 Ca 4. 3 Zn 28.0 Cd 0.24 Cu 0.26 Si 4 Pb 2.5 The dust was a fine, light brown material formed under oxidising conditions indicating the presence of well oxidised products, such as ZnO and Fe203. Figure 4 shows the zinc extraction versus pulp density, at a temperature of 90 C and a sodium hydroxide solution concentration of lOM. Figure 5 shows the zinc and iron extraction versus log molar sodium hydroxide concentration at boiling temperature of the caustic soda solution and 204 0 pulp density. The liquor was purified by concentration with zinc dust at a temperature of 49 C and the results of this are shown in Figure 6. Where 10 g Zn litre of solution is used, the solution contains 1 of the original lead concentration after 25 minutes cementation. The purified, zinc rich solution is then extracted using an electrowinning process. The results of this electrowinning, using a magnesium cathode and a nickel or nickel plate anode at a spacing of 1.5 cms are as follows Current 0 Current Density g l Efficiency Ampsft 2 3.7 4.1 36 33.85 4.1 7.7 67 33.85 7.7 13 58 67.7 13 20 78 67.7 20 29 98 67.7 29 32.7 96 67.7 On a commercial scale, the probably power requirement, assuming varying cell efficiencies and current densities would be of the order of 3000 KWh ton zinc won, neglecting power losses due to power equipment. In a practical design, to recover 0.44 tons zinc per hour, nine cells of dimensions 4 ft x 4 ft x 10 ft using 3 x 3 cathodes per cell and 40 anodes, will be required. The residual dust, which was about half the weight of the original, had a zinc level of the order of 8 to 10 zinc, and an iron content of about 40 0. About 80 of the original zinc was recovered. The residual dust could be further purified by roasting with sodium carbonate at a temperature of preferably above 700 C, more preferably above 760 C. At higher temperatures, roasting times are reduced but energy requirements are higher. Roasting of the caustic leach residues at 8600C for 50 minutes, followed by caustic leaching of the roasted product gave zinc extractions in excess of 90 of the residual values. The product obtained therefore had a negligible zinc level, of less than 1 . The extraction stage illustrated in Figure 7 includes an additional pre leach step which is recomnded for the removal of lead from oxidised dusts such as produced by arc furnaces. Dividing the figure is a dot dash line above which are those steps associated with the optional dilute pre leach. Optimum lead removal is achieved at an alkali metal hydroxide, in this case NaOH, concentration of 1 to 2M the leach being effected at, say, 52 C for half an hour, depending upon the particle size of the dust.Following filtration the residue is washed in water and roasted in a reducing atmosphere produced for example by roasting with coal or other carbonaceous material at from 8000 to 1100 C, the reduced dust then being passed to the main, concentrated leach such as described in Examples 1 and 2, possibly after mixing with fresh blast furnace dust. Pregnant alkali metal hydroxide solution is passed from the pre leach, for re caustisation with lime and subsequently, the extraction of Pb with some Zn, bys cementation with metallic Zn. A cementation product of approximately 80 Pb, 20 Zll will be obtained. The purified alkali metal hydroxide solution is then concentrated by evaporation and combined with the pregnant solution from the concentrated leach for further cementation with metallic zinc. After cementation, Zn is extracted by eleetrowimling and the purified concentrated alkali metal hydroxide solution recycled to the concentrated leach. The metallic zinc required for the cementation steps may be added in the form of any waste material containing metallic zinc, the process thereby affording the further facility of reclaiming zn from waste material such as metal finishing waste. The process according to the present invention preferably is carried out on a single site, that is to say, the zinc recovery plant is linked with the ferrous metal production plant in which the flue dusts are generated. For economic reasons, however, it may be necessary to build a zinc recovery plant at some central location accessible to a number of plants supplying ironbearing flue dusts, the treated dust being recycled to one or all of the supply plants. Figure 8 is a flow diagram of a steel production process incorporating an extraction stage such as illustrated in Figure 7. Blast furnace and converter dusts are separated from the flue gases, from which useful heat can be recovered, and fed to the zinc recovery plant, possibly via the blast furnace charge sintering furnace. A pelletising machine is provided to form the treated iron dust into pellets which are then recycled to the blast furnace. The process described above not only avoids cleaning costs and the problem of disposal of the dust and hence pollution but, in addition, produces saleable by products and enables the utilisation of otherwise wasted iron. With regard to the removal of magnetic materials from the feedstock, prior to leaching, by magnetic separation reference is made to the arising from one particular steelworks. The arising was made up of tpa blast furnace dust 60000 blast furnace slurry 50000 basic oxygen plant slurry 50000 electric steelmaking slurry 7000 Total 167000The mean analysis of this arising as proposed for recovery purposes was Fsse total 44.68 CaO 5.61 SiO2 4.78 A1203 1.38 MgO .1.01 MnO 0.99 ZnO 0.84 PbO 0.29 Na20 0.23 K20 0.24When processed in successive 2000 and 8000 gauss fields a recycle stream of approximately 11900 tpa of the two magnetic underflows combined was found to contain 71.5 of the total feed and included 87.5 o of the iron content.The analysis was Fe total 54.66 CaO 4.37 SiO2 5.05 A1203 1.29 MgO 1.06 MnO 1.06 ZnO 0.17 PbO 0.11 Na2O 0.22 K20 0.19This reduces the leach circuit throughput from over 20 tph to less than 6 tph. The flow process shown in Figure 9 is most suited for dusts such as electric are furnace dust having a low carbon content. For blast furnace dust having a much higher in the region of 20 carbon content the feedstock slurry is prefereably mixed with a frothing agent and subject to a preliminary floatation separation prior to magnetic separation, the separated carbon conveniently being dried and compacted into fuel brickettes. An important advantage of this technique is that it enables a significant reduction by the order of 75 in the size and capital cost of the process plant required for the dust recovery process, as compared with what otherwise would be necessary. Further the dewa1ering filtration stage is facilitated, rates are improved, less equipment i.e. small filtration a ea is required than for the recovery of the same weight of solids from leach liquor. Also less expensive construction materials may be used since the operating conditions are less arduous. The bulk of the iron contained in the feedstock can be recycled in an upgraded form and this fraction contains the essentially unleachable non ferrous material in the feed. The leachable non ferrous materials, from BOS and electric are processing, is upgraded for recovery purposes. Although a chemically pure substance has its own specific magnetic susceptibility, in practical terms each mineral species will exhibit a range of susceptibilities depending on its origin any processing to which it has been subjected the feed to the processing operation and other variables. Hence the separation effected at a given intensity will not be absolutely specific and in practice at least two stages of treatment will be required. The iron dust fecdstocks contain a completed spectrum of magnetic susceptibilities with differing distributions.This is illustrated in Figure IC. Typically fol an arc furnace dust, a medium intensity 8 12000 gauss separator is required to remove the more highly susceptible fractions, these including the magnetite Fe304 wustite FeO and ferritic materials containing zinc lead and alkali metals . This allows the high intensity unit 18 28000 gauss to remove the remaining low ssceptibility solids without any possibility of blockages from the bulk of the material. Since the soluble proportion of the feedstock varies from typically, 2 for blast furnace dusts to over 20 for arc furnace dusts, the medium intensity separator will remove 75 95 of the insoluble solids and the remaining insoluble low susceptibility material, 3 25 will be recovered by the high intensity unit. The solids free solution can then be treated to recover the nonferrous metals dissolved, by the process illustrated inFigure 11. All magnetic separation can be effected at ambient temperature. The level of intensity for the medium intensity separator depends on the specificity of feedstock to the plant and any requirement for recycling the iron ore. For example, when processing the arisings from an arc furnace the feedstodk of which is low quality scrap material e.g.No. 4 and No. 5 qualities, an 8 10000 gauss field will remove 30 600 o of the high to medium magnetic material, with the remaining low magnetic susceptibility material being removed in the highest intensity field at over 20000 gauss. Alternatively, a blast furnace arising may require a low intensity 2 4000 gauss preliminary separation in addition to or in place of a medium intensity stage.This would separate the 20 45 of most highly magnetic material in the first stage and a corresponding proportion of less magnetic solids in the second stage the residual low susceptibility solids will be recovered at iigh intensity. Generally the choice of intensities for mixed feeds would be decided upon after consideration of the proportions and characteristics of the feedstock. The choice of equipment depends on the number of stages required. In a preferred embodiment the first stage is a rotating drum concentrator using permanent magnets. A high intensity electromagnetic separator is used for the third and possible also for the second stage. The separator has different packing materials in the magnetic zone depending on the quantity and susceptibility of solids intended to pass through that stage. The packing in the final stage generally comprises a stainless steel wool. The recovery of pregnant liquor entrained in the solids is effected by washing with water. This is carried out by repulping the sludge product in the case of the drum concentrator, followed by filtration of the dilute lixiviant slurry, or by direct washing on the high intensity machines. In the latter case the solids are washed at the periphery of the magnetic field, removed by water jets outside the magnetic field and recovered from the aqueous slurry by filtration. Filtration occurs under these conditions at significantly improved rates as compared with those possible for removing the solids from the leach slurry. The overall washing efficiency depends on the choice of filtration equipment and this is determined by the intended use of the end product. Lixiviant recoveries of over 98 are possible. Typically, a liquor feed of 350 gpl NaOH containing 1125 gpl iron oxides can produde solids with 30 by weight of water and less than 5 by weight of NaOH with a clear liquor overflow. In the selection of conventional solid liquid separation techniques the physical and chemical characteristics of the constituents have to be evaluated. Paramount among these are the particle size range and density, the liquid viscosity and the total flowrate of material. With high viscosity lixiviants e.g. caustic soda, high temperatures are required to improve filtration and tbese lead to increased corrosive effects and a more mechanically severe environment for the separation medium. This calls for the use of expensive alloy materials. The high temperatures required for filtration. of the order of 1000C result in a short filter cloth life expectancy 4 8 weeks . The average particle sizes of steel plant dusts are typically less than 100 micron, with arc furnace dusts typically over 90 ,0 less than 10 microns. This factor, in combination with a high visoosity liquor and the re tively small driving force obtainable with the low differential pressures, of the order of 10 1, in conventional equipment, gives very poor filtration rates. These being typically 20 25 kg mêhr compared with 1500 2000 kg mêhr for the removal of gypsum from process liquors. Because the separation force exerted upon the particles in magnetic separation is not physically generated the separation is effectively independentI of particle size, liquor viscosity and temperature. There is no directly applicable rate parameter available for purposes of comparison as there is no filtration medium and separation occurs as a bulk flow of solids. The size of the magnetic separators required is related only to the volumetric liquor flowrate. The capital cost being approximately half of the filter route. One advantage of the use of magnetic separators is that it enables a high rate of recovery of iron bearing materials from viscous process liquors at ambient temperatures, the preferred application being steel plant wastes from alkaline leach systems e.g. caustic soda. Also the equipment has a lower capital cost than conventional filtration equipment one reason being that the reduced level of corrosive attack at ambient temperatures allows the use of less,expensive materials, and is physically smaller, reducing the space required. Further by proper selection of magnetic intensity the major proportion of iron bearing material can be recycled to an iron making process. At present this material is ground dumped and is an environmental pollutant. Another advantage is that recycled material can be upgraded with respect to iron content, to a value equivalent to that of imported iron ores. Because no filter medium is required, maintenance costs are significantly reduced and consumption is much reduced because high recoveries of lixiviant are possible.