# Method and apparatus for making hot beverages.

## Abstract
The invention introduces an apparatus and a method whereby most of the enticing fragrances and aromas of food stuffs, like coffee for instance, which otherwise, by the methods employed heretofore escaped during roasting and or grinding, can be used and mixed or absorbed in the drink. This object is achieved by roasting, grinding and infusing the coffee in the same heatable container 113 or basket, i.e. without transferring the roasted coffee beans to another work station for grinding, and by the fact the hot water and or steam, while dropping down from the top of the vessel 120 surrounding the basket, gets in touch with the fragrances and aromas developed during roasting and grinding, mixes with them and absorbs some or most of them. This feat is achieved through the apparatus which features a heatable basket 113 for hard or soft foodstuffs and a rotating blade 112 to ensure a uniform roast. When the beans are roasted, the heating of the basket is switched off and the blade is rotated at higher speed, whereby the roasted stuff is ground. At the same time water is heated and the hot water and or steam is lead to the top of the practically closed unit from where, while drop ping, the water and or steam mixes with and absorbs the aromas and fragrances, reaching the basket and its contents, leaches the grind and, through perforations on the basket, drips to the bottom of the vessel.

## Claims
Claims 1. In a method of making a beverage roasting the basic raw material of the beverage, grinding the roasted substance in the same area, leading fluid through the area containing the ground substance, thus brewing the beverage in a way that most of the aromas and fragrances released during roasting and grinding stay in a container where the brew is gathered. 2. In a method as described in Claim 1, and where during making the beverage, the roasting takes place in a pot like basket with the help of electric or gas heating. 3. The method recited in Claim 2, where the electric heating is carried out by resistance heating, or by induction heating, or by microwave heating, or by the combination thereof. 4. In a method of brewing coffee roasting green or preroasted but not fully roasted coffee beans in a perforated basket, grinding the roasted coffee in the same basket, letting hot water or steam seep through the basket, and gathering the thus freshly brewed coffee in a container which surrounds the basket leaving ample space for the brew to drip through the basket into the container but covering the container so that the aromas and fragrances released during roasting and grinding stay entirely or in most part in the container until the coffee is poured out from the container. 5. In a method of brewing coffee filling a perforated basket with green or pre roasted but not fully roasted coffee beans, heating the coffee beans to the required colour while slowly stirring the beans in order to achieve a uniform roasting, grinding the coffee in the basket, letting hot water or steam through the basket, gathering the hot liquid which 5. Cont d seeped through the basket in a flask which surrounds the basket, the base of the flask being supported by a heatable keep warm platform and the top of the flask is covered by a cupola through which the hot water or steam is lead into the flask, the cupola sealing the flask and the basket from the outside atmosphere entirely when a keep warm platform pushes the rim of the flask tight to the cupola, and letting some steam to leave the flask when the flask is not fully lifted by the keep warm platform. 6. In a method as recited in Claim 5 where the hot water and steam is generated in the same container where the brew will finally seep down. 7, A method as recited in Claim 5 where the hot water and or steam is generated in a container separate from the flask in which the final brew is gathered. 8. In a method of brewing coffee or coffee substitute or a mixture thereof filling a perforated basket from more than one chute with different ingredients for roasting in doses according to taste in a sequence which assures that roasting will be accomplished and end at about the same time so that after heating the basket and roasting the mixture, stirring it slowly, grinding can be started at a fixed point of time, and after producing a properly ground mixture, letting hot water or steam through the basket, gathering the hot liquid which seeped through the basket into a flask which surrounds the basket, the base ofthe flask being supported by a heatable keep warm Platform and the top of the flask is covered by a cupola, through which the hot water or steam is lead into the flask, the cupola sealing the flask and the basket from the outside atmosphere entirely when the keepwarm platform pushes up the rim of the flask tight to the cupola, and letting some steam to leave the flask when the flask is not fully lifted by the keep warm platform. 9. In a method of making a beverage as recited in Claims r, 2, or 3, the sequence of the two steps carried out in the basket being reversed, so that grinding takes place first, followed by roasting. 1. The method as recited in Claim 8 where the heating of e the basket, and the fluid reservoirs, is carried out by gas heating, by induction heating, by resistor heating, by microwave heating, or by the combination thereof. 11. In a method of brewing coffee as recited in Claim 5, where the basket is made of metal. 12. In a method of brewing coffee as recited in Claim 5, where the basket is made of ceramics. 13. The invention as recited in Claim 5, and where paper, textile, or plastic filter is used, in addition to the perforations on the basket, to ensure that practically no lees reach the brew. 14. The invention as recited in Claim 5, and where the sequence of the roasting and grinding steps is reversed and a further grinding step is added. 15. In a method of making a beverage, the improvement comprising the steps of roasting the foodstuff from which the beverage is to be derived while agitating said foodstuff in a perforated basket which is surrounded by a larger, sealable container, thus establishing a practically closed unit grinding the roasted foodstuff in said basket without transporting the foodstuff, the grinding being carried out by rotation at high speed of a blade like tool which protrudes into the basket and which previously agitated the foodstuff in the basket by slow rotation to ensure uniform roasting directing hot fluid into the region above said foodstuff preferably to the highest point of the closed unit where the lighter than air fragrances released from the foodstuff congregate, thus enabling the fluidto pass through the fragrances down to the lower regions of the container while the fragrances get mixed with and absorbed by the fluid, and permitting said fluid to pass through the basket where it leaches the freshly roasted and ground foodstuff and seeps through the perforations of the basket down to the bottom of the container, while the blade like tool slowly agitates the grind. 16. The method as defined in Claim 15, wherein said fluid is derived from water. 17. The method defined in Claim 15 wherein the foodstuff is green coffee beans. 18. The method as defined in Claim 15 wherein the foodstuff is raw onion. 19. The invention as defined in Claim 18 wherein the sequence of the roasting and grinding steps is reversed. 20. An apparatus for making beverages from a commodity to be processed therein, comprising a pervious container having motivated blade means in said pervious container operable at selective speeds for respective roasting, grinding and stirring phases of a commodity in said pervious container heating means operable to heat a commodity for roasting thereof in said pervious container flow means for effecting passage of a heated fluid into said pervious container to permeate through a commo dit ground therein to produce a beverage flow into a flask whereby a commodity may be heated and roasted at a preselected low blade means speed and ground at a preselected high blade means speed and subjected to flow of hot fluid therethrough while being stirred at a preselected low blade means speed to produce a beverage flow into a flask from said pervious container. 21. An apparatus as set forth in Claim 20, including timer means for predetermined sequence control of operation of said heater and blade means speeds. 22. An apparatus as set forth in Claim 20, including a variable speed motor for operation of said blade means and control means for selective speed operation. 23. An apparatus as set forth in Claim 20, including a flask wherein said pervious container is disposed within said flask suPport means for said blade means comprising a roof carrying said blade means and being operable to effect an aroma sealing enclosure for said flask said pervious container being carried by said flask. 24. An apparatus as set forth in Claim 20, including a flask and drive means for said blade means support means for said flask, said drive means, and said blade means said support means comprising a base having a warming platform for support of said flask and comprising a roof for support of said blade means in said pervious container. 25. An apparatus as set forth in Claim 20, including a variable speed drive means for operation of said blade means and control means for said drive means to effect speed variation. 26. An apparatus as set forth in Claim 25, including a flask and a support means said heating means being electrical and disposed to transmit heat to said pervious container and said heating means being secured within said flask including means for removably carrying said flask on said support means and means for conducting electric current to said flask said latter means comprising an upright column of said support means having a pair of spaced arms secured thereto for straddling said flask and having electric contacts said flask having conductive means connected to said heating means and being engageable by said electric contacts and disengageable therefrom. 27. An apparatus as set forth in Claim 25, including a support means for said blade means comprising a base and an up right column extending therefrom with a roof extending from said upright column carrying said blade means means for carrying a flask comprising a warming member and adjusting means whereby said warming member is vertically adjustable to position a flask thereon into a sealing coaction with said roof. 28. An apparatus as set forth in Claim 25, including a flask, a support means comprising a roof carrying said drive means said pervious container being disposed within said flask and means whereby said roof effects an aroma sealing enclosure for said flask. 29. An apparatus as set forth in Claim 28, wherein said flask has an open top edge and said pervious container has a flange resting thereon wherein said flange is intermediate said open top edge and said roof to effect said sealing coaction. 30. An apparatus as set forth in Claim 25, including a support means for said pervious container comprising. a base having an upstanding column with a hollow interior for containing water to be heated therein said flow means comprising a passage from said hollow interior leading to said pervious container. 31. An apparatus as set forth in Claim 25, and support means comprising a platform for carrying said flask and said platform having means to heat fluid in said flask. 32. An apparatus as set forth in Claim 25, wherein said first mentioned heating means is disposed below said pervious container for heat conduction thereto. 33. An apparatus as set forth in Claim 25, including a support means for said blade means comprising a roof said drive means comprising a variable speed motor carried by said roof and having a shaft extending therethrough said blade means comprising a grinding blade carried on said roof and within said pervious container. 34. An apparatus as set forth in Claim 25, said drive means comprising a variable speed motor and support means therefore comprising a roof and said motor having a shaft extending there through said blade means being carried on said roof within said pervious container said roof having an undersurface provided wjth a hollow portion and means for shifting said blade means at least partially into said hollow portion of said roof to selectively use less than the entire blade means in operation thereof. 35. An apparatus as set forth in Claim 25, including a flask said terviouscontainer being disposed in said flask and means for sealing said flask with said pervious container therein to retain aroma during operation of said apparatus. 36. An apparatus built on a horizontal base, a vertical column standing on the base and supporting a roof, a platform on the base a flask which is slightly shorter than the column, and its top is open in the flask a perforated pot like basket equipped with heating means, a blade inside the basket, the blade rotated by an electric motor slowly for stirring coarse foodstuff or vegetable matter with which the basket may be filled, and rotatable fast to grind the contents of the basket a refillable reservoir for liquids, equipped with heating means to produce steam and hot liquid, duct means for conveying the steam or hot liquid from the reservoir into the roof from where the hot fluid drops into the basket said flask, which surrounds the basket and collects brew seeping through the basket being positioned on said platform said platform, with the help of a lever arm, being movable up and down, pushing up the flask with its open top toward near the roof, in which case the flask will be nearly closed, or pushing the flask higher until it touches the roof, in which latter case the flask becomes completely closed and its contents will be completely separated from the outside atmosphere, thus ensuring that a part or all of the aromas and fragrances emerging from the basket and brew stay in the flask until the brew is removed the removal of the flask being facilitated on the one hand by lifting the blade out of the basket and withdrawing it partly or entirely into the shelf with the help of a bolt connected to the shaft farthest from the blade, the bolt rotated up, and, on the other hand, by lowering the platform, turning the lever arm counterclockwise.

## Description
METHOD AND S. PPMATUS FOR B..KING HOT BEVEBGES METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR MA.ING HOT 3EVERAGE S Background of the invention Problems A good cup of coffee is best achieved when freshly roasted coffee beans have been ground, and the freshly ground coffee is percolated properly. Good coffee is not only good tasting but also of fine aroma. By this I mean that it should contain as much of the enticing volatile aromas and frangrances of coffee as possible. Some of these fragrances appeal to the coffee drinkers sense of smell, while other aromas contribute to the taste. As can be seen, in this disclosure aromas and fragrances are used somewhat alternatively. I use aromas and fragrances as a vapour or gaseous substance. Some parts which exude these aromas or fragrances may evaporate at a certain state, and some parts may enter the liquid. A part of the enticing fragrances contained in the coffee beans disappears into the environment during and immediately after the process of roasting. Additional fratrances are released and lost when grinding opens up the inside of the coffee beans. There have been earlier attempts to make a good coffee drink by roasting green coffee beans, grinding the roasted coffee and brewing it all in the same environment, but these machines did not produce a good, really flavourful drink with much fragrance, partly because they were clumsy and complicated and because the fragrances were scattered around in the machine and could not be reached by the water. One such earlier attempt is disclosed in U.S. Pat.399,803 to Wagner. He suggests roasting and grinding in a drum but makes no attempt to transfer the aromas thus generated into the drink. The majority of the fragrances stay in the drum until the drum is opened for loading the next batch of green coffee beans. Another drawback of the Wagner design is the fact that the ground coffee floats on the top of the water and descends into the water slowly, certainly slower than in the 2 minutes which is considered to be the ideal time for brewing. 2 minutes is the recommendation found in the publication entitled Scientific Coffee Research by MIT professor S. Prescott, cited in U.S. Patent 2,906,193 to McCauley, column 2, lines 23 through 27. In U.S. Pat. 1,063,188, de Simone tried to return rising fragrances into the brew by condensing them and feeding the condensate into a separate water container. The design is such that only a small fraction of the fragrances can be recovered. Little, if any of the fragrances from roasting can reach the grinding compartment. The fragrances from the grinder rise and are supposed to enter a cold water container which has piping to the strainer basket. The deSimone apparatus employs separate compartments for roasting, grinding, and brewing and has only one mode of operation.My apparatus is one in which roasting, grinding and brewing are performed in a single receptacle basket and it is particularly adapted for operation in any of several modes, thus enabling one to prepare different beverages requiring different grinding, roasting and brewing cycles, as will be described henceforth. A further prior art device, disclosed by Bosak in U.S.Pat. 3,153,377 appears to be directed to this subject matter in that the apparatus provides for roasting, grinding and brewing in a single combined machine. However, as in the de Simone patent, the apparatus has only a single mode of operations and is merely an aggregation of three devices and there is no provision for gathering and using the fragrances exuded during roasting and grinding. As presently envisaged, this invention is applicable to the brewing of coffee, various coffee substitutes and other foodstuffs which may be heated and or ground and or infused. Subsequent references to coffee are to be understood to include all of the above.Objects of the invention Solution It is the object of my invention to produce a superior brewed beverage by uniform roasting, quick grinding, properly timed brewing and re introduction of more aromatic fragrances than has been possible heretofore. This is accom polished by roasting and grinding in a single closed space, passing hot water or steam through the fragrances exuded during the roasting and grinding steps in a manner which ensures maximum intermingling of the fragrances and the fluid. This feat is achieved through the novel construction of the herein disclosed apparatus for making hot beverages, which apparatus features a heatable basket for hard and or soft foodstuff and one or more rotating blades in the basket which blades can slowly stir up to 250 revolutions minute the roasting foodstuff to ensure a uniform roast.When the beans are roasted, the heating of the basket is switched off and the blade is rotated at higher speeds about 1500 10,000 revs. min according to need, whereby the roasted stuff is ground. At the same time water is heated and the hot water and or steam is lead to the top of the practically closed unit from where, while dropping, the water and or steam mixes with and absorbs aromas and fragrances, reaching the basket and its contents, leaches the grind and, through perforations on the basket, drips to the bottom of the vessel. Furthermore, another object of the invention is to introduce a method whereby hot beverages may be made which require that the sequence of steps be reversed, i.e. grinding may take place first and roasting be carried out later. In this way partial roasting, grinding and final roasting, or partial grinding, roasting and fine grinding can be achieved, etc. Also, since the grinding is done by a blade, which will grind soft foodstuffs also while the old fashioned grinders in the prior art coffee makers employed toothed gear grinders which become clogged if fed with soft substances , a wide variety of hot beverages may be made with my method, e.g. onion soup. Pastes may also be made with my method and apparatus. By use of this invention one can save on the quantity of the foodstuff required. By slowly stirring the grind while the steam or boiling water is passing through the basket, a more thorough leaching can be achieved than by any other presently known method of beverage making, i.e. less raw material will produce a higher quality drink. The invention may be carried into practice in a number of ways, according to the basic features in my method outlined above, by adapting some details to the special requirements for certain types of beverage to be produced.A more detailed description of the invention It should be emphasized that the invention encompasses a much broader territory than just coffee making, nevertheless it appears to be appropriate to demonstrate the process by discussing some aspects of my method and apparatus when a good, flavourful, aromatic coffee is made. Some specific embodiments of the invention will now be described by way of examples, with reference to the accompanying drawings. Sizes and shapes in the drawings are merely illustrative of one of more possible embodiments, and not restrictive of the present inventive concept. In short the invention is illustrated by, but not limited to the following examples.A brief description of the drawingsFig. 1 is a side view partially broken away of a coffee makerFig. 2 shows the top of the basket viewed from aboveFig. 2a shows the same top in side viewFig. 3 represents a side view partially broken away of a drip type coffee maker incorporating the inventionFig. 4 presented on the sheet with Figs. 2 and 2a, is a sec tion taken on line B B in Fig. 3 and shows an example how the current may be fed into the electric heating plate.A more detailed description of some preferred embodiments In Fig. 1 reference numeral 1 denotes a stand of a coffee making unit which works with the so called pump , DR well known, for instance, from the PIREX commat percolator. This stand 1 consists of a base 2 , roof 3 , and a column 4 , which latter connects 2 and 3 . The column must be strong enough to firmly support on its lower part the slide 5 which is slidably fixed on column 4 , and, on its upper part, to support the electric motor 10 on top of the roof. The electric motor can be driven at several speeds. Slide 5 consists of three main parts, namely of heating platform 7 , glider 8 and wing screw 9 . The shaft 11 of electric motor 10 goes through roof 3 and protrudes comparatively deeply down into the space between the roof 3 and heating plate 14 . To the lower end of the shaft 11 is secured blade 12 which thus re volves together with the shaft. Blade 12 is surrounded by basket 13 . Under the basket is heating plate 14 perforated side wall 15 , and funnel like suspension elements 16 complete this immediate environment. The basket 13 has as its bottom the heating plate 14 and side wall 15 which is frusto conical in Fig. 1 but may take other shapes.Perforated top 23 shown in Figs. 2 and 2a in more detail , covers basket 13 . The top has a handle 24 for easy gripping and handling. The perforated latch 25 , with the help of lug 26 is turned in the direction of the arrow around pivot 27 to close the gap 28 after the basket has been filled with green coffee beans. The task of the top is to keep the coffee within the basket during roasting and grinding. In operation, this coffee maker works as follows The flask 20 is filled with cold or pre heated water, up to a marked level. The mark on the flasks set to a height ensuring that the basket with its lowest part, the heating plate 14 should not touch the water level. The basket hangs down into the air space of the flask and is kept in place with the help of suspension elements 16 . The basket is filled with coffee beans green or already somewhat, but not completely roasted . After the flask has been filled with water and the basket with the necessary amount of coffee beans, the exact ratio of water and coffee beans is chosen according to individual taste, as in other coffee brewing methods , the flask with the basket inside is put on the heating platform 7 , and the whole slide 5 is lifted from the base to its high position, as seen in the Fig. 1. The axis 17 of the basket 13 and of the shaft 11 coincide in this case. In order to further facilitate the proper positioning of the flask, a circular groove 22 has been provided in the lower face of roof 3 . The new, high position of the flask is ensured by tightening the wingscrew 9 on the column 4 . In order to keep the drawing free from many distracting lines, the electrical wiring of the apparatus is not shown. Suffice to mention that platform 7 , plate 14 and motor 10 are supplied with electricity. They can be governed manually or by thermostats and timers. The construction and operation of such devices are not discussed any further, since they are well known to persons knowledgeable in the art. After the basket is filled with green or already somewhat roasted coffee beans and the flask is firmly in the position shown in the drawing, heating plate 14 is switched on, i.e. the roasting of the beans is started. At the same time the electromotor is switched on so that the blade starts to revolve slowly. Thus the coffee beans are stirred slowly. When the coffee is properly roasted, heating plate 14 is switched off and the motor is switched over to a faster speed so that the roasted coffee will be ground. In both cases, but especially in the latter high speed setting, the blade works in a way which is somewhat similar to the operation of a blade in the well known food blenders. It should be mentioned however, that the slow, stirring revolution is slower than the minimum revolution in ordinary blenders. While the grinding is in process, the heating element in platform 7 may be switched on so that by the time the coffee is properly ground, the water in the flask becomes hot and starts boiling so that the steam above the water presses hot water through pump 18 where it exits above the coffee basket. The hot water is directed to the cupola 19 in the roof 3 , from where it drips down into the basket through perforated top 23 and from the basket, through its perforated side wall 15 into the flask. The whole procedure continues until the drink in the flask reaches the desired rich brown colour and becomes a flavourful coffee. As can be seen from the above description, my method and apparatus ensures that the fragrances and aromas discharged during roasting and grinding will not be wasted, because the steam, and the water in the cupola mix with the aromas.After the coffee is brewed, platform 7 is lowered and the flask is removed, at the same time a lid may be placed on top of the flask. Partly roasted beans and de caffeinated beans may be used, if desired. With the design according to Fig. 3 the pump 18 , shown inside the flask in Fig. 1 can be dispensed with.The inside of column 104 , or at least a part of the inside is a water reservoir 130 . The water in this reservoir is heated with the help of an electric coil, for instance. In order to avoid complicating the drawings, no attempt is made to show electric wiring, heating coils, switches, etc. which are readily provided by those knowledgeable in the art. Timers, automatic switches etc. are not needed in the drawings for complete understanding of the invention, the gist of which resides in the unique combination of the basket with the blade 5 , inside the basket, having at least one slow stirring speed and at least one fast grinding speed, the bottom of the basket being heated and, as an additional feature, the whole before mentioned compact device being surrounded completely or at least mainly by the brewing equipment as a complete and more or less closed unit. According to Fig. 3, the basic idea of this invention can be very well applied to the requirements of the so called drip type coffee maker. The inside of column 104 , i.e. the water reservoir 130 is heated electrically or by any other means e.g. with natural gas as in some larger, restaurant type coffee makers and the hot water or steam is led through holes or outlets 132 into the cupola 119 , from where it drips down into the basket 113 . Under the basket there is a heating plate 114 but the substance in the basket to be roasted may be heated otherwise, e.g. by micro wave.Since micro wave heating is well known in cooking and baking appliances, it is sufficient to mention here only that the best way to irradiate the basket appears to be from the top, leading the waveguide to the upper part of the basket, which latter may be made of a ceramic or other suitable material in this case. It should be mentioned that this will influence the number of perforations. If the roasting is effected by an electric coil, only a limited number of perforations can be provided. Only the upper surface 133 of the electrically heated plate 114 need be hot. By keeping the other surfaces of the basket comparatively cool, a paper filter may be added to the basket or textile, or plastic. With microwave heating an appropriate choice of compatible materials must be made. On top of the roof 103 is electric motor llO which turns shaft 111 and blade 112 through a V belt 153 drive. Of course, shaft 111 may be driven by a chain drive, by gears, or by any other suitable means direct drive may be used as long as the electric motor is able to produce slow speeds for stirring the contents of the basket, and the faster speeds needed for grinding. Shaft 111 has a longitudinal groove 139 into which intrudes a key connecting the shaft with wheel 140 , thus ensuring a positive drive connection between the wheel and the motor and at the same time permitting up and down movement of the shaft. Moving the shaft up, and with it the blade, permits easy removal of the flask and basket. While in general no details of the electrical equipment are given, nevertheless one way of supplying the heating plate 114 with electric current will be now described as an example of several possible solutions. As can be seen in Fig. 4, heating plate 114 is firmly attached to the wall of the flask 120 by several bridges 145 .Through two of these bridges electrical conductor rods 1t6 are led to the outside surface of the flask from a heating element in the heating plate. The ends 150 of these conducting rods 146 are concave and match with convex contacts 147 of the arms 142 . These arms are pivotally connected with column 104 at pivot pins 148 . Springs 149 ensure that the contact between 147 and 150 be always firm, and that, at the same time, when no contacts needed, the flask is removable. It should be mentioned here that, in order to simplify the construction, one of the arms 152 may be rigidly fixed on the column, only the other arm need be flexibly mounted. The apparatus outlined in Figs. 3 and 4 is used in the following way Knob 136 is turned by hand so that it moves in the direction of arrow A t together with cap 137 , thus lifting the shaft 111 and blade 112 . This way the blade is withdrawn into cupola 119 and the flask may be pulled out easily from under the roof 103 . The flask and the basket inside the flask thus having been freed, it is easy to clean the basket, and fill the basket with green or somewhat roasted substances, e.g. coffee beans. Then the flask may be put back on the keep warm platform 107 , and blade 112 lowered. At the same time the current in the heating plate 114 is switched on and the roasting phase is started, while the blade rotates slowly, thereby ensuring that the contents of the basket will be roasted uniformly.When the roasting is finished, the current in the heating plate is switched off and the blade is rotated at high speed in order to grind the fresh roasted particles. The water in.the reservoir has been brought to boiling in the meantime. Hot water and or steam leaves the reservoir through channel 131 and outlets 132 into the cupola 119 and from there into the basket. The hot water or steam seeps through the basket and flavourful, aromatic, fresh brewed coffee fills the flask. The blade may be switched on again for slow movement to stir the ground coffee or other substance in the basket during infusion. This way the ground coffee will be utilized more thoroughly and uniformly. It should be mentioned that in Fig. 3 only a few water and or steam outlets are shown to keep the drawing simple.In fact, the cupola should have discharge holes from its top to about the level of the outlets shown in the drawing. If less than the full flask of coffee is served immediately, the remaining part can be kept in the flask with the help of keep warm platform 107 which may be switched on and off manually or automatically. The other switches aenerally work with pre set times, and in bigger restaurantsize coffee makers can be completely programmed. Keep warm platform 107 can be lifted and lowered with the helen of lever arm 141 . This is helpful in taking out the flask after the coffee making process is finished, and also, with a different setting of the lever arm one can set the gap between the upper rim 142 of the flask and the lower surface of the top 103 . In other words, the lever arm sets the amount of steam and fragrances which may leave the flask before the drink is served. Sometimes the brewer may wish to make the drink from two or more different kinds of ingredients which require different roastings. Since coffee prices are high, some people wish to mix coffee with chickory, for instance.Whichever ingredient requires longer roasting, it will be fed into the basket first. Later the other ingredient requiring a shorter time for roasting will be fed into the basket from container 143 through chute 144 so that the roasting of the two ingredients should be finished at the same time. Fig. 3 shows only one container 143 , but several such containers may be provided. One of these containers may be filled with cold water. This water is then used in quenching the roasted coffee beans. Quenching while or immediately after roasting is considered, by some, to further improve the aroma of a coffee. It should be noted at this point that the above mentioned sequence of steps may be changed. For instance, a slightly pre roasted coffee may be ground roughly first, and roasted only afterwards, then it may be ground again, this time to extremely fine particles. In another example, making onion soup, an onion is coarsly chopped ground first and the coarsly chopped onion will be roasted afterwards. The dripping of water may be started while the onion is being roasted. While it is simpler to use the same blade for the slower stirring and for the faster grinding step, there may be situations where more than one blade can be used. In the latter case the unused blade s may be withdrawn into the cupola while the suitable blade is working in the basket. By the term blade 12 , as can be seen in Fig. 1, for instance one should not necessarily understand a practically two dimensional, straight knife blade. A three dimensional wing like blade, or any other suitable shape may be employed, for example a so called spin blade, as used in the OSTERIZER commat . Osterizer is the trade mark of the liqui fier blender manufactured by the John Oster Mfg. Co., Milwaukie, Wisconsin, U.S.A. However, not only the shape of a blade applied in this invention, but also the material from which it is made should not be necessarily the same as used in the Osterizers. Thus, instead of metal, ceramics or other suitable materials may be used. When terms up , down , on top , below , etc. are used herein, it should be understood that these terms have reference only to the structure shown in the drawings as it would appear to a person viewing the drawings and are utilized only to facilitate explaining the invention. It should be emphasized that many modifications in the presently preferred embodiments will occur to those skilled in the art. Accordingly, the scope of the invention is not limited to the illustrative examples mentioned above. Best Mode of OperationAlthough the success in preparation of brewed beverages is wholly dependent upon individual tastes, the preferred embodiment of the method is represented by the following Place green coffee beans in basket and place flask on platform. Stir at 60 rpm, while heating, until beans turn from green to brown coloured coffee. Discontinue heating. Continue stirring for one half minute. Grind for 20 seconds at 6000 rpm. Infuse with boiling water while stirring at 60 rpm. Stop rotation of blade. A preferred method of preparing onion soup with the apparatus would involve the following steps Place peeled onion in basket and place flask on platform. Chop onion at 1500 rpm for 10 seconds. Reduce speed to 60 rpm. Heat basket until onion has a light brown color. Discontinue heating. Infuse boiling water. Stop rotation of blade.