# Microcrystalline synthetic faujasite.

## Abstract
Synthetic faujasites in microcrystalline form are obtained by reacting alkali metal silicate in solution with alkali metal aluminate and effecting the crystallization of the reaction pro duct in the presence of a mono or disaccharide.

## Claims
What is Claimed 1. The method of obtaining synthetic faujasite in microcrystalline form which comprises reacting an alkali metal silicate compound with an alkali metal aluminate compound in aqueous solution and in proportions required to obtain a faun site structure, aging the reaction mixture and effecting crystallization in the presence of an additive from the group consisting of mono and disaccharides and mixtures thereof thereafter separating the formed microcrystals from the mother liquor. 2. The method as defined in Claim 1 wherein said aging is carried out initially for 6 to 24 hours at 5 to 500C followed by subjecting the aged mixture to increased temperatures for 2 to 24 hours. 3. The method as defined in Claim 2 wherein the initial aging is carried out for 12 to 20 hours and the subsequent heating is to 25 120 C for 3 to 260 hours. 4. The method as defined in Claim 2 wherein said initial aging is effected at about ambient temperature for a period of 16 hours. 5. The method as defined in Claim 4 wherein the subsequent heating is effected for 4 hours at about 1000C. 6. The method as defined in any of Claims 1, 2, 4 or 5 wherein said additive is sucrose. 7. The method as defined in any of Claims 1, 2, 4 or 5 wherein said additive is dextrose. 8. The method as defined in Claim 5 wherein the additive comprises 1.5 to 5 by weight of the total reaction mixture. 9. The method as defined in Claim 5 wherein the additive comprises 2 to 3.5 by weight of the total reaction mixture. 10. The method as defined in Claim 1 or 5 wherein the proportions of alkali metal silicate and alkali metal aluminate are such as to furnish a SiO2 Al203 mole ratio in the reaction mixture in the range of from 4 to 10. 11. The method as defined in Claim 1 or 5 wherein the alkali metal silicate and alkali metal aluminate are such as to furnish a SiO2 Al2O3 mole ratio in the reaction mixture of about 6.2. 12. The method of forming faujasite in microcrystalline form, which comprises reacting sodium silicate with sodium aluminate in aqueous alkaline solution, chilling the reaction mixture, adding thereto a sugar compound from the group consisting of mono and disaccharides and mixtures thereof, initially aging the obtained mixture for 12 to 20 hours at about ambient temperature, heating the initially aged mixture for 3 to 10 hours then separating the formed microcrystals from the mother liquor. 13. The method as defined in Claim 12 wherein said sugar compound is sucrose. 14. The method as defined in Claim 12 wherein said sugar compound is dextrose.

## Description
MICROCRYSTALLINE SYNTHETIC FAUJASITE TECHNICAL FIELD The present invention is concerned with the preparation of faujasite type zeolites in microcrystalline form. BACKGROUND OF THE PRIOR ART Faujasite is a fairly rare naturally occurring aluminosilicate mineral of defined crystal structure.Products having substantially the same crystal pattern as this natural mineral have been synthesized by reaction of silicon compounds with aluminum compounds in aqueous alkaline solutions. Among the synthetic faujasite products thus synthesized which have found extensive industrial use are so called X type zeolites and Y type zeolites. The preparation of X type zeolites is described in U.S. Patent No. 2,882,244. The preparation ofY type zeolites is described in U.S. Patent No. 3,130,007.These synthetic faujasites may be represented by the general formula Alk2O A12O3 2 7Si02 nH2O. By the usual methods of the prior art, these synthetic fauj asites are produced in the form of crystals having an average size range of 1 to 3 microns. It is proposed in U.S. Patent No. 3,516,786 to produce synthetic faujasites in microcrystalline form, stated to be in the 100 1000 Angstrom range. In the method disclosed in said patent, an alkali metal silicate solution is admixed with an alkali metal aluminate solution in proportions to provide a SiO2 A12O3 mole ratio of from 4 to 20 and the obtained reaction mixture is aged for 6 to 24 hours at moderate temperature the aged composition is then heated for 2 to 16 hours to effect crystallization in the presence of a water miscible organic solvent added to the composition at any stage prior to the heating step. Because of the relative volatility of the organic solvents proposed in accordance with said prior patent, part of this additive is driven off during the crystallization of the product at elevated temperature, so that the concentration of such additive is not constant.This disadvantage is overcome in the crystallization of the faujasite reaction product by the additives employed in the present invention. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION It has now been found in accordance with the present invention, that microcrystalline faujasite is obtained in high yield when the faujasite product obtained by the reaction of the silicon and aluminum compounds is crystallized in the presence of a solid mono or di saccharide compound. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION For the preparation of the synthetic faujasite in microcrystalline state, the usual proportions of reactants are employed. Thus the reaction may be carried out employing as reactants an aqueous alkali metal silicate solution and an aqueous alkali metal aluminate solution to provide a molar ratio of SiO2 Al203 in the range of 3 to 15, preferably in the range of 4 to 10 and an alkali metal oxide A1203 ratio in the reaction mixture of 5 to 20, preferably 7 15. The amount of water in the mixture may vary over a fairly wide range, as from about 150 600 H20 A1203, but should preferably be in the range of from 220 to 430. The initial admixture of the reactant solutions is best carried out with each of the solutions somewhat cooled to below room temperature, as in the range of up to about 100C, preferably there below but short of freezing. After blending the cooled solutions of alkali metal silicate and alkali metal aluminate, the reaction mixture is let stand for at least several minutes before adding the sugar, after which addition the mixture is aged, first at room temperature for at least 5, and preferably for 10 or more hours with stirring. It is then heated to about 1000C for an additional several hours to promote crystallization while stirring. The product is filtered to remove the obtained microcrystals from the mother liquor and dried. The zeolite product obtained shows the typicalX ray diffraction pattern identified as a faujasite with the characteristic broadening of the lines typical in microcrystalline material. EXAMPLE 1Materials A. 50 sodium hydroxide solution B. Sodium silicate solution 29.2 sio2 and 8.92 Na2O , 96 grams C. Crushed ice D. Sodium aluminate 65 70 purity 18.3 grams E. Sucrose F. Distilled or demineralized water Procedure 1. Place 78 ml of H2O in a 600 ml beaker. 2. Add 29.5 ml of A with stirring. Cool to ambient. 3. Add B with stirring. Chill to 50C. 4. Place 61 ml of H2O in a beaker pr eferably not glass . 5. Add 25.5 ml of A with stirring. Then add D and heat until solution clears. 6. Chill to 5 C. 7. Add 75 g of C to the mixture from procedure step 3 and let stand. Temperature should be about 4 C. 8. Add 75 g of C to the mixture from step 6. 9. Blend the result of step 8 with the result of step 7 with stirring. 10. Let stand 5 minutes. 11. Add 12 gms of E. 12. Age at about 200C for 16 hours preferably in Teflon, stainless steel, or other non glass container with stirring. 13. Heat to 1000C. 14. Age at 1000C for 4 hours with stirring. 15. Filter, wash, dry at 2500F 1200C for 4 hours. Product yield was 73 by weight of total solids.The crystals had a mean crystallite size of 367 angstroms. In following the same reactants and procedures as above, but substituting anhydrous dextrose D glucose for the sucrose, a 70 yield is obtained. The crystals had a mean crystallite size of 417 Angstroms. The reaction conditions deemed best suited for obtaining the desired microcrystalline product in high yield are at ambient pressure employing ratios of SiO2 Al203 6.2 Na2O A12O3 9.8 H2O A1203 318.5 The initial aging at the lower temperature may be carried out at a temperature of 5 500C, preferably at 10 250, for 6 to 24 hours, preferably at 12 to 20 hours. The lower the temperature employed, the longer the aging time required. The subsequent warm aging crystallization temperature may be from 250 1200C, but above that of the initial aging for 3 to 260 hours, preferably, 500 1100C for 3 to 10 hours. Here again, the lower the temperature, the longer the time required for complete crystallization. The concentration of sugar in the crystalizing mixture may be from 1.5 to 5 by weight of the reaction mixture, preferably from about 2 to 3.5 . Other mono and di saccharides or mixtures thereof may be employed as additives instead of dextrose or sucrose, to obtain crystallization of the faujasite in microcrystalline form. In the repeated runs carried out using dextrose and sucrose respectively, the range of crystal sizes produced was from 328 to 693 Angstroms the 328 Angstrom crystals were obtained in a run with dextrose as additive.