# Therapeutically useful tetralin derivatives.

## Abstract
Compounds of the formula

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A compound of the formulaEMI37.1 wherein Y is OH, NH2, R3COO, R3CONH or CH3S02NH and R3 is an alkyl group having 1 to 5 carbon atoms, a benzyl or phenyl group, and R1 is an alkyl group having 1 to 8 carbon atoms, a benzyl or phenethyl group and R2 is hydrogen or an alkyl group having 1 to 5 carbon atoms or R1 and R2 together form an alkylene group having 4 to 6 carbon atoms, as the base or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof. 2. A compound according to claim 1 wherein Y is OH orR COD. 3. A compound according to claim 1 or 2 wherein R1 and R2 are the same or different and selected from ethyl and npropyl. 4. A compound for pharmaceutical or medical use characterized by the formulaEMI37.2 wherein Ya is OCH3, OH, NH2, R COO, R CONH, or CH3SO2NH and R is an alkyl group having 1 5 carbon atoms, a benzyl or phenyl group, and R1 is an alkyl grpup having 1 to B 2. carbon atoms, a benzyl.or phenethyl group and R is hydrogen or an alkyl group having 1 to 5 carbon atoms orR1 and R2 together from an alkylene group having 4 to 6 carbon atoms as the base or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof. 5. A compound according to claim 4 wherein Y is OCH3, OH or R COO. E. A compound according to claim 5 wherein Y is OCH3. 7. A compound according to either of claims 4 to 6 whereinR1 and R2 are the same or different and selected from ethyl and n propyl. 8. A process for preparing a compound of the formulaEMI38.1 wherein Y is OH, NH2, R3COO, R3CONH or CH3S02NH and R3 is an alkyl group having 1 to 5 carbon atoms, a benzyl or phenyl group, and RÚ is au alkyl group having 1 to 8 carbon atoms, a benzyl or phenethyl group and Rê is hydrogen or an alkyl group having 1 to 5 carbon atoms or R1 and R2 together form an alkylene group having 4 to 6 carbon atoms, as the base or a. pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof, charecterized in that a an ether of the formulaEMI39.1 wherein Ra represents a hydrocarbon residue, and R1 and R2 are as defined above, is cleaved to form a compound of formula II wherein Y is a hydroxy group, b a compound of formula II wherein Y is OH or NH2 and R2 is other than H is converted into a compound of the same formula wherein Y is R COO, R1CONH or CH3SO2NH by treating the firstrnentioned compound with an appropriate carboxylic acid halide RÚCOX or anhydride RÚCO 2O or with a methylsulfonyl halide CH3SO2X in the presence of a base, c a compcund of formula IV EMI39.2 wherein Rb is either R1 or R2, and R 1, R2 and ya are as defined above, is converted into a compound of formula II wherein Y is OH, by alkylation of the nitrogen atom with an appropriate alkylating agent, d an amide of the formulaEMI39.3 wherein ya is OH or NH2, Rdis an alkyl group defined d by the relation R CH2 equals either R1 or R2 and Re is the other of R1 and R , is reduced to the formation of a compound of formula II, e a compound of the formulaEMI40.1 is reduced to the corresponding amine, and if required an isomeric mixture as regards the position of the nitro group is chromatographically separated either before or after the reduction to the formation of the 8 amino compound of formula II, or f a compound of the formulaEMI40.2 wherein Ya and Rb are as defined above1 is catalytically reduced to the formation of a compound of formula IV, g Åan enamine with either a C1 C2 or a C2 CB double bond or, an imine base without R2 or immonium salt e.g C104 or BF4 with a C2 N double bond of the formulaEMI41.1 wherein Ya, RÚ and Rê are as defined above, is reduced to a compound of formula II or IIa, h a compound of the formulaEMI41.2 one of MÚ and Mê representsEMI41.3 and the other represents CH2 ,EMI41.4 is a group sensitive to hydrogenolysis such as OH in benzylic position or halogen, and R1 and R2 are as defined above, is converted to a compound of formula II or IIa by reduction, or i a compound of the formulaEMI41.5 wherein X represents SD3H, C1 or NH2, a hydroxy group is substituted for the group X to the formation of a compound of formula II wherein Y represents a hydroxy group whereupon optionally a base obtained is converted to a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt or a salt obtained is converted to the base or to a different, pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt, and optionally an isomeric mixture obtained is separated to a pure isomer. 9. A pharmaceutical preparation comprising as an active ingredient a compound according to claim 1 or claim 4, in conjunction with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. 10. A pharmaceutical preparation for the treatment of disorders in the central nervous system, comprising as an active ingredient a compound according to claim 1 or claim 4, in conjunction with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

## Description
THERAPEUTICALLY USEFUL TETRALIN DERIVATIVESDESCRIPTIONTechnical FieldThe present invention is related to new 1,2,3,4 tetra hydro 2 naphtylamines, to processes for preparing such compounds, pharmaceutical preparation of such compounds and the use of such compounds in therapy.An object of the invention is to provide compounds for therapeutic use, especially compounds having a therapeutic activity in the central nervous system. A furtner object is to provide compounds having an effect on the 5 hydroxytryptamine neurones in mammals including man.Sackground Art Compounds of the formulaEMI1.1 are disclosed by a number of references. Thus, Mc termed et 21. J. Med. Chem. 1B, 362 1975 describe i.a. ccmpounds wherein YI and YII are 7 OH and 8 OH, respectively, and RI nod R11 are both methyl or both propyl and wherein YI andYII are 5 OH and B OH, respectively, and RI and RII together are C2H4 O C2H4 . Said compounds are irldicated to have dopaminergie properties althaugh certain compounds are reportes to be inactive, Further Mo Oermed at al. J. Med. Cham. 19, 547. 1975 describe dopeminergio compounds of formula I atove, wherein YI is 5 OH, 6 OH or 7 OH, YII is H and RI andRII are both propyl. Rusterholz et al. J. Med. Chem. 19, 99, 1976 describe compounds of formula I, wherein Y1 is 5 OH or 5 OCH3,YII is 8 OH or 8 OCH3 and RI and RII are selected from H and methyl. Some of said compounds are potent prolactin inhibitors and believed to be dopamine agonists.Cannon et al. J. Med. Chem. 20, 1111, 1977 have studied dopaminergic effects of a number of 5,6 and 6,7 dihydroxy compounds according to formula I.Ames et al. J. Chem. Soc. 2636 1965 disclose the preparation of a large number of compounds, among which are those of formula I above wherein YI is H and YII is a methoxy, ethoxy, n or iso propoxy, or n , sek or tert butoxy group in the 5 or exposition and R and RII are H or alkyl groups having 1 4 carbon atoms. The compounds are indicated to be prepared for pharmacological testing.However, no utility or pharmacological activity is yet known for the compounds just mentioned.Disclosure of inventionAccording to the present invention it has been found that novel compounds of the formulaEMI2.1 wherein Y is OH, NH2, R3COO, R3CONH or CH3SO2HN and R is an alkyl group having 1 to 5 carbon atoms, a benzyl cr phenyl group, and R1 is an alkyl group having 1 to 8 carbon atoms, a benzyl or phenethyl group and 92 is hydrogen or an alkyl group having i to 5 carbon atoms or R1 and pA together form an alkylene group having 4 to 6 carbon atoms, as well as pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts thereof, possess unexpected pharmacological properties rendering them useful in therapy and fulfilling the objects stated above.Processes for preparation of such compounds, their pharmaceutical and medical use and pharmaceutical preparations and methods of treatment employing such compounds constitute further aspects of the invention. Compounds of formula IIa below wherein ya is OCH3 are intermediates in preparation of the corresponding hydroxy compounds of formula II. According to the invention said compounds are found to have valuable therapeutic propertiesThus, according to a further aspect the invention is related to the pharmaceutical and medical use of compounds as well as to pharmaceutical preparations and methods of treatment employing compounds of the formulaEMI3.1 wherein Ya is OCH3, OH, NH2, R COO, R CONH or CH3SO2NH and R1, R2 and R are as defined above, as well as pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts thereof.Both organic and inorganic acids can be employed to form non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts of the compounds of this invention. Illustrative acids are sulfuric, nitric, phosphoric, hydrochloric, citric, acetic, lactic, ta t2ric, paranoic, ethanedisulfonic, sulfamic, succinic, cyclohexylsulfamic, fumaric, maleic and benzoic acid. These salts are readily prepared by methods known in the art. According to a preferred embodiment the invention is related to compounds of the formula II wherein Y is OH or R3COO. Further preferred are compounds wherein R1 and R2 are the same or different and selected from ethyl and n propyl. For their medical use application further compounds of formula IIa wherein Ya represents CH3O belong to the preferred group of compounds.The compounds of formula II and IIa contain an asymmetric carbon atom in the aliphatic ring moiety, i.e. the ring carbon atom adjacent to the nitrogen atom. The therapeutic properties of the compounds may to a greater or lesser degree be ascribed to either or both of the two enantiomers occurring. Thus the pure enantiomers as well as mixtures thereof are within the scope of the invention.The invention takes into consideration that compounds which structurally deviates from the formula II or Ila after administration to a living organism may be trans formed to a compound of the formula II or Ila and in this structural form exert their ef fects. Likewise, certain compounds of formula II or IIa may be metabolized into ther compounds of formula II before exerting their effect. Compounds of the invention wherein Y or Ya is RÚCOO, RÚCONH or CH3S02N M are thus believed to exert their main activity after metabolism to conpounds wherein Y or yd is OH NH2 and NH2, respectively. Methods of Preparation The compounds of the inventicn may be obtained hy one of the following methods constituting a further aspect of the invention. a An ether of the formulaEMI5.1 wherein Ra represents a hydrocarbon residue, preferably an alkyl group having 1 5 carbon atoms, or a benzyl group, and R1 and Rê are as defined above, may be cleaved to form a compound of formula II wherein Y is a hydroxy group.The cleavage may be carried out by treating the compound of formula III with an acidic nucleophilic reagent such as aqueous HBr, or HI, HBr CH3COOH, BBr3, AlCl3, pyridine HCl or CH3 3SiI, with a basic nucleophilic reagent such as CH3C6H4 S or C2H5 S When Ra is a benzyl group the cleavage may also be carried out by reduction, preferably with hydrogen using Pd or PtO as catalyst. 2 b A compound of formula 11 wherein Y is OH or NH3 and R is other than H may be converted into a compound of the same formula wherein Y is RÚCOO, RÚCONH or CH3SO2NH by treating the firstmentioned compound with an appropriate carboxylic acid halide R1COX or anhydride R1 CO 20 or with a methylsulfonyl halide CH3S02X in the presence of a base such as triethylamine or pyridine or an acid such as H2S04 or CF3COOH. X represents a halogen, preferably C1 or Br. c A compound of formula IVEMI5.2 wherein Rb is either R 1 or R2, and R11 R2 and a are as defined above, may be converted into a compound of formula II wherein Y is OH, by alkylation of the nitrogen atom with an appropriate alkylating agent. Thus, the starting compound wherein Rb is R2 may be treated with an alkyl, benzyl or phenethyl halide or tosylate RlXl, wherein xl represents C1, Br, I orEMI6.1 in an organic solvent such as acetonitrile or acetcne and in the presence of a base such as K2C03 or NaOH, or said starting compounds may be treated with a carboxylic acidNaBH4 complex RcCOOHNaBH4, wherein Rc is defined by the relation RC CH2 equals R1.To the formation of a compound of formula I wherein at least one of R1 and R2 is CH3, the alkylaticn reaction may be carried out by treatment of the compound of formula IV with a formaldehyde Na CN BH3 mixture, or with formaldehyde and formic acid. To the formation of a compound of formula II wherein R is a cycloalkyl group, the alkylation may be carried out by reaction of the compound of formula IV wherein Rb is R with a cyclic ketone of the formulaEMI6.2 wherein n is 1, 2, or 3, whereby the intermediate of formulaEMI6.3 formed, is reduced, preferably with hydrogen using Fd orPtO2 as catalyst. d An amide of the formulaEMI7.1 wherein a is CH30, OH or NH2, Rd is an alkyl group defined by the relation Rd CH2 equals either RÚ or Rê and Re is the other of RÚ and Rê, may be reduced, a.g. by treatment with a hydride reducing agent such as LiAlH4 in ether or tetrahydrofuran or BH3 in tetrahydrofuran, to the formation of a compound of formula II or IIa.e A compound of the formulaEMI7.2 may be reduced to the corresponding amine. When the starting material is an isomeric mixture as regards the position of the nitro group chromatographic separation either before or after the reduction yields the 8 amino compound of formula II. The reduction is suitably carried out with hydrogen and Pd catalyst. f A compound of the formulaEMI8.1 wherein Ya and Rb are as defined above, may be catalytically reduoed to the formation of a compound of formula IV.With appropriate meanings of Ya and Rb the product obtained also satisfies formula II or IIa. Said method is especially useful in preparation of pure enantiomers as enantiomer separation of the benzyl derivatives of formula XIV may easily be done by recrystallization with optically active tartaric acid.g An enamine with either a C1 C2 or a C2 C3 double bond or an imine base without R2 or immonium salt e.g. C104 or 8F4 with a C2 N double bond of the formulaEMI8.2 wherein Ya, R1 and R are as defined above may be reduced to a compound of formula II or IIa, preferably by catalytic hydrogenation using PtO2 or Pd as a catalyst. h A compound of the formulaEMI9.1 wherein 1 and M2 are the same or different and each representsEMI9.2 is a group sensitive to hydrogenolysis such as hydroxy in benzylic position or halogen, and RÚ and Rê are as defined above, may be converted to a compound of formula II or IIa by reduction.Thus, a keto function may be either directly converted toCH2 by treatment with e.g. hydrazine under alkaline.conditions or by a stepwise reduction by using e.g.catalytic hydrogenation which may involve an intermediary formation of a hydroxy group and, where possible, also an elimination to a double bond. Reduction of a groupEMI9.3 may be carried out by using a nucleophilic hydride reducing agent such as Like4, or catalytic hydrogenation.i In a compound of the formulaEMI9.4 wherein X represents S03H, C1 or NH2, a hydroxy group may be substituted for the group X to the formation of a compound of formula II wherein Y represents a hydroxy group.When X is SO 3H or C1 said reaction may be carried out by treatment with a strong alkali under heating, suitably with an alkali melt such as KOH when X is SC3H, and it a strong aqueous alkali such as NaOH or KOH when X is C1. When X is NH2 the reaction may be carried out by treatment with aqueous nitrous acid to the formation of an intermediate diazonium compound which is then subjected to hydrolysis in water.Free bases formed may subsequently be converted into their acid addition salts, and acid addition salts formed may subsequently be converted into the corresponding bases or other acid addition salts. Preparation of Starting MaterialsStarting materials for the methods of preparation described above may be obtained by several methods known in the art or described below.A The starting material for method a according to formulaIII above may be prepared by one of the following methods EMI11.1 A compound of formula VI is reacted with an amine such as ReNH2 in the presence oj acetic acid and molecular sieves or methylamine hydrochloride in the presence of NaOH to the formation of an intermediate imine, which is reduced by catalytic hydrogenation to a compound of formula VII. When a tertiary amine is desired, compound VII is then acylated with a carboxylic acid chloride Ir the presence of triethyl amine and subsequently reduced in the manner described under d above to a compound of formula III.A compound of formula III wherein R2 is 4 is obtainable directly from the sminetion of VI to VII. EMI12.1 For the preparation of a starting material wherein R1 is a cycloalkyl group, a compound of formula JI may be reacted with an azacycloalkane of the formulaEMI12.2 wherein n is 1, 2, or 3 and the intermediate is catalytically hydrogenated suitably with PtO2 as the catalyst. B The starting materials for method b are also compounds of the invention and are obtainable bq a suitable method described under a , c , d , or e above.C The starting materials for method cl are obtainable by method analogous to the stepsEMI12.3 of method Al .The hydrocarbon residue Ra is suitably split off from the compound of formula VII when Ya OH is desired in the compound of formul IV. Starting materials satisfying formula II or Ila are also obtainable by one of methods a or d . D The starting materials for method d are obtainableDl by stepsEMI13.1 of method Al when in compound V yais CH30. When nazis OH the starting compound is obtainable D2 by splitting off the hydrocarbon residueRa in compound VIII, suitably with BBr3. When Ya is NH2 the starting compound is obtainable D3 by reduction of a compound of the formulaEMI13.2 in a manner analogous to method e involving chromatographic separation. The compound X is obtainable by the reactionsEMI13.3 The compound XII is prepared from XI in analogy with stepsEMI13.4 of method Al . Compound X is then obtained by treatment with HNO3, H2S04 and water.E Starting materials for method E are obtainable by amination of a compound of formula XI. The amination may be carried out in analogy with method Al or A2 above. In the intermediate of formulaEMI13.5 formed a nitro group is then introduced in analogy with the reactionEMI13.6 secording to D3 stove. F Starting materials of formula XIV employed according to method f are obtainable by one of the above methods.Pharmaceutical preparationsPharmaceutical preparations of the compounds of the invention constitute a further aspect of the invention.In clinical practice the compounds of the present invention will normally be administered orally, rectally, or by injection, in the form of pharmaceutical preparations comprising the active ingredient either as a Tree base or as a pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic, acid addition salt, e.g. the hydrochloride, lactate, acetate, sulfamate, and the like, in association with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.Accordingly, terms relating to the novel compounds of this invention, whether generically or specifically, are intended to include both the free amine base and the acid addition salts cf the frec base, unless the ontt in which such terms are used, e.g. in the specific examples, would be inconsistent with the broad concept. The carrier may be a solid, semisolid or liquid diluent or capsule.These pharmaceutical preparations constitute a further aspect of this invention. Usually the active substance will constitute between 0.1 and 9 by weight of the preparation, more specifically between 0.5 and 20 by weight for preparations intended for injection and between 0.2 and 50E by weight for preparations suitable for oral administration.Pharmaceutical preparations containing a compound of the invention may preferably contain between 2 and 50 by weight of the active substance, in such preparations the selected compound may be mixed with a solid fine grain carrier, e.g. lactose, s cchrose, sorbitol, mannitol, starchs such as potato starch, corn starch or arrylopectin, cellulose derivatives, or gelatin and a lubricant such as magnesium stearate, calcium stearate, polyethylene glycol waxes, and the like, and then compressed to form tablets. If coated tablets are required, the cores, prepared as described above, may be coated with a concentrated sugar solution which may contain, e.g. gum arabic, gelatin, talcum, titanium dioxide, and the like.Alternatively the tablet can be coated with a lacquer dissolved in a readily volatile organic solvent or mixture of organic solvents. Dyestuffs may be added to these coatings in order to readily distinguish between tablets containing different active substances or different amounts ofthe active compound.For the preparation of soft gelatin capsules pearl shaped closed capsules consisting of gelatin and, for example, glycerol, or similar closed capsules, the active substance may be admixed with a vegetable oil. Hard gelatin capsules may contain granulates of the active substance in combination with solid, fine grain carriers such as lactose, saccharose, sorbitol, mannitol, starches e.g. potato starch, corn starch or amylopectin , cellulose derivatives or gelatin. Liquid preparations for oral application may b in the form of syrups or suspensions, for example, solutions containing from about 0.2 to about 20 by weight of the active substance herein described, the balance being sugar and a mixture of ethanol, water, glycerol and propyleneglycol.Optionally such liquid preparations may contain colouring agents, flavouring agents, saccharine and carboxymethylcellulose as a thickening agent.Solutions for parenteral applications by injection can be prepared in an aqueous solution of a water soluble pharma ceutical ly acceptable salt of the active substance preferably in a concentration of from about 0.5 to about 10E by weight.These solutions may also contain stabilizing agents and or buffering agents and may conveniently be provided in v rious dosage unit ampoules. In therapeutical treatment the suitable daily doses of the compounds of the invention are 1 2000 mg for oral application, preferentially 50 500 mg, and 0.1 100 mg for parenteral application, preferentially 0.5 50 mg.Working examplesThe following examples will further illustrate the invention.Preparation of intermediates and compounds of formula IIa wherein a. Example I1 2 n propylamino 8 methoxytetralin Method AllTo a solution of B methoxy 2 tetralone 10.2 g, 58 mmol in absolute ethanol t175 ml over 4 A molecular sieves 19.0 g were added ri propylamine 10.3 g, 174 mmol and acetic acid 10.4 g, 174 mmol . The mixture was shaken in a closed flask N2 atmosphere for half an hour, heated to 700C and allowed to cool. The molecular sieves were filtered of , and the solution was hydrogenated catalytican cvr PtO2 at atmospheric pressure. After filtration and evaporation, the acetate of the title compound was washed with ether, and made alkaline with saturated Na2C03 solution. The aqueous phase was extracted with ether and the combined organic layers were evaporated. The residue was passed through an alumina column with ether as eluant, precipitated as the hydrochloride and recrystallized from ethanol ether.Example 12. 2 di n propylamino 5 methoxytetralin Method Al Propionylchloride 5.4 g, 5 mmol in dry toluene 10 ml was slowly added at 50C to a solution of 2 propylamino o methoxytetralin 8.5 g, 39 mmol , triethylamine 5.9 e, 5 mol and dry toluene 60 ml . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 min, whereupon the triethyl ammonium chloride formed was filtered off and the solvent evaporated. The residue was passed through an alumina column with ether light petroleum as eluant.After evaporation the amide dissolved in dry tetrahydrofuran 30 ml was added to a suspension of LiAlH4 2.0 g, 53 mmol in dry tetrahydrofuran 100 ml under nitrogen. After stirring under reflux for 5 h, the mixture was hydrolyzed, the precipitate was filtered off, and the solvent was evaporated. The residue was passed through an alumina column with ether light petroleum 1 2 , and the title compound was precipitated as the hydrochloride and recrystallized from ethanol ether.Example 13. 2 piperidino 8 methoxytetralin Method A2 A solution of 8 methoxy 2 tetralone 10.0 g, 57 mmol , piperidine 14.5 g, 170 mmol , and p toluenesulfonic acid 0.5 g in dry toluene 500 ml was refluxed for 24 h. The solvent was evaporated and the residue was dissolved in absolute ethanol and transferred to a Parr flask. PtO2 0.5 g was added and the hydrogenation was performed at 0.38 MPa gauge. The catalyst was filtered off, the solvent was evaporated, and the residue was passed through an alumina column with ether light petroleum 1 1 as eluant. The title compound was precipitated as the hydrochloride and recrystallized from ethanol.Example 14. 2 methylamino 8 methoxytetralin Method A1 8 methoxy 2 tetralone 5.0 g, 28 mmol was dissolved in ethanol under nitrogen. Methylamine hydrochloride 3.8 g, 56 mmol idssolved in weter 50 ml and NaOH 5,6 g, 140 mmel , were added under stirring, After stirring for 20 min, the mixture wes poured ontoice 100 g mixed with concentretedHCl 30 ml . The acidic solution was hydrogeneted catalytic ally over PtO2 150 mg in. a Parr apparatus at 0.34 Due gauge.After filtration, the ethanol was evaporated, and the remaining aqueous phase was poured into water 100 ml , washed with ether and made alkaline. Extraction with ether and evaporation gave the crude solid amine, which was passed through an alumina column with ether as eluant.The title compound was precipitated as the hydrochloride and recrystallized from i propanol ether.Example 15. 8 amino 2 N n propyl N propionyl amino tetralin Method D3 2 N n propyl N propionyl aminotetralin 59.9 g, 0.24 mol prepared according to Al from 2 tetralone in 36 yield was dissolved in CW3NO2 1000 ml . A mixture of concentratedHNO3 16.5 ml , concentrated H2S04 218 ml and water 35.4 ml was added dropwise under cocling and thorough stirring maintaining the temperature between 0 10 C. The mixture was stirred at 0 C for another 2 hours and then poured onto ice water t4 1 .Extraction with CH2Cl2, washing the organic phase with water, dr ving Na2SO4 and evaporation of the solvent gave a crude oil 64.4 g of an isomeric mixture of 5 , 6 , 7 and E mononitro 2 N n propyl N propionyl aminotetralin. The mixture was dissolved in ethanol 1200 ml . Acetic acid 50 ml and 10 Pd C 3 g was added and the mixture was hydrogenated at 0.34 MPa gauge, The catalyst was filtered off and the solvent evaporated giving a residual oil. The oil was dissolved in 1 Di HC1 5Qa ml , and the solution was extracted with ether. The ether phase was discarded, the aqueous phase was made alkaline Na2CO3 and extracted with ether.The organic phase was dried Na2SO4 and the solvent evaporated giving a crude oil 57 g of an isomeric mixture of 5 , E , 7 and 3 monoamino 2 M n propyl N propionyl aminotetralin. A small amount 1.0 g of the Dast mentioned isomeric mixture was converted to the hydrochloride and chromatographed on an RP 18 column using MeOH 2 M NaOAc 1 1 2 HDAc as eluant. In this way all the isomers could be separated . The last fraction a total volume of about 1000 ml , containing the pure B isomer HPLC , was worked up by first evaporating off the methanol, making the residual solution alkaline with 20 NaOH and extracting with ether. The ether phase was dried Na2SO4 and the solvent evaporated giving a residue 80 mg of the desired product 8 amino 2 N n propyl N propionyl aminotetralin NMR .Example 18. 2 benzylamino 8 methoxytetralin Tartaric acid 15.92 g, 0.106 mol dissolved in hot ethanol 500 ml was added to a hot solution of 2 benzylamino 8 methoxytetralin 28.36 , 0.106 mol in ethanol 1500 ml . The solution was allowed to stand over night at room temperature. The crystals thus formed was recrystallized four times by oissolvino in boiling ethanol and cooling to room temperature. The resolved arnine was released with NaOH solution into ether. The organic layer was dried K2C03 and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure yielding 2 benzylamino 8 methoxytetralin. A small sample was converted to the hydrochloride for analysis, melting point and determination of specific rotation. The enantiomeric purity of the amine was determined by analysis of the NMR spectrum of its O msthylmandelamide which was prepared as follows R 2 Methoxy 2 phenylacetyl chloride 155 mg, 0.8 mmol dissolved in dry benzene 5 ml was added to an ice cooled solution of 2 benzylamino 6 methoxytetralin 150 mg, 0.6 mmol and triethylamins 170 mg, 1.7 mmol in dry benzene 20 ml . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour whereupon it was filtered and the solvent evaporated. The residue, dissolved in ether, was washed with 2N HCl, 2N NaOH and water.After drying K2C03 the organic layer the ether was distilled off and the crude amide was dissolved in dimethylsulfoxide d6. In the nmr spectrum of the diastereomeric amides the methin proton alpha to the methoxygroup gave singlets with different chemical shifts 5.36 and 5.44 ppm . The enantiomeric purity was determined to more than 93 by estimation of the relative areas under these peaks.Example I7. 2 propylamino 8 methoxytetralin Method F The hydrochloride of 2 N n benzyl N n propylamino 8 methoxytetralin, prepared from 2 benzylamino 8 methoxytetralin 3.65 g, 13.65 mmol according to methodAl, d, Example 12 was dissolved in methanol 100 ml Pd on charcoal catalyst was added and hydrogenolysis was performed at atmospheric pressure. Removal of catalyst and solvent gave 2 propylamino 8 methoxytetralin as the hydrochloride, which was treated with 2N NaOH. TheTree amine was extracted with ether. The ether layer was removed, dried K2C03 and evaporated. The amine was purified on an alumina column with ether as eluant and converted to its hydrochloride and recrystallized from ethanol ether.Preparation of end compounds of formula IIExample El. 2 di n propylamino 8 hydroxytetralin hydrobromide Method a 2 di n propylamino 8 methoxytetralin hydrochloride 4.5 g were suspended in 48 HBr 1On ml . The mixture was then heated at 170 C for 2 h under nitrogen. The hydrobromic acid was evaporated, water was added and evaporated. The residue was recrystallized from ethanol yielding the pure 2 di n propylamino 8 hydroxytetralin hydrobromide.Example E2. 8 amino 2 di n propylaminotetr21in hydro chloride Method d 8 amino 2 N n propyl N propionyl aminotetralin 80 mg, 0.31 mmol dissolved in dry ether 10 ml was added dropwise to a stirred mixture of LiAlH4 0.2 g in dry ether 10 ml N2 atmosphere and then the mixture was stirred for 30 min at room temperature. Addition of water 0.2 ml , 15 NaOH 0.2 ml and finally water 0.6 ml followed by filtration, drying Na2S04 of the filtrate and evaporation of the ether gave the product base as a residual oil 90 mg NMR . . The base was converted to the hydrochloride by dissolving in ether and precipitating with HCl saturated ether. The hydrochloride was recrystallized from ethanol ether.According to the methods of the Examples above the following compounds were prepared and recrystallized as acid addition salts from ethanol ether or isolated as the bases. Compounds and xp rimental data EMI22.1 EMI22.2 c tb Compound SEP Method SEP Melting SEP alpha D22 tb Ref. SEP to SEP point SEP C tb Example SEP No. SEP Ya SEP R10 SEP R20 SEP Salt tb Example SEP No. SEP or SEP other SEP Yield tb a tb data tb 1 I4 SEP CH3O SEP CH3 SEP H SEP HCl SEP Al SEP 140 141 SEP 50 tb 2 I1 SEP CH3O SEP n C3H7 SEP H SEP HCl SEP Al, SEP 193 194 SEP 78 tb 2 I7 SEP CH3O SEP n C3H7 SEP H SEP HCl SEP f SEP 236 237 SEP 78.3 SEP c SEP 1.05 SEP 80 SEP d . tb 2 SEP CH3O SEP n C3H7 SEP H SEP HCl SEP f SEP 235 236.5 SEP 76.5 SEP c SEP 1.03 SEP 78 SEP d tb 3 SEP CH3O SEP n C4H9 SEP H SEP HCl SEP Al SEP 191.5 193.0 SEP 55 tb 4 SEP CH3O SEP CH CH3 2 SEP H SEP HCl SEP Al SEP 248 248.5 SEP 55 tb 5 SEP CH3O SEP n C8H17 SEP H SEP HCl SEP Al SEP 164 165 SEP 43 tb 6 SEP CH3O SEP SEP H SEP HCl SEP Al SEP 218.5 219.5 SEP 62 tb 6 I6 SEP CH3O SEP SEP H SEP HCl SEP 239 240 SEP 63.3 SEP c SEP 1.01 SEP 23 SEP d tb 6 SEP CH3O SEP SEP H SEP HCl SEP I6 SEP 240 241 SEP 62.5 SEP c SEP 1.01 SEP 12 SEP d tb 7 SEP CH3O SEP C2H5 SEP n C3H7 SEP HCl SEP Al, SEP d SEP 131.5 132.5 SEP 94 SEP e tb 8 I2 SEP CH3O SEP n C3H7 SEP n C3H7 SEP HCl SEP Al, SEP d SEP 148.5 149.5 SEP 85 tb 8 SEP CH3O SEP n C3H7 SEP n C3H7 SEP HCl SEP Al, SEP d SEP 164 165 SEP 77.1 SEP c SEP 1.04 SEP 88 SEP d tb 8 SEP CH3O SEP n C3H7 SEP n C3H7 SEP HCl SEP Al, SEP d SEP 164 164.5 SEP 76.1 SEP c SEP 1.00 SEP 85 SEP d tb 9 SEP CH3O SEP n C3H7 SEP n C4H9 SEP HCl SEP Al, SEP d SEP 136 138 SEP 94 SEP e tb Compounds and xperimental data cont. EMI23.1 EMI23.2 Melting tb Method SEP point SEP C tb Compound SEP Ref. SEP to SEP or SEP other tb a tb Example SEP No. SEP Ya SEP R10 SEP R20 SEP Salt SEP Example SEP No. SEP data SEP alpha D22 SEP Yield SEP tb 10 SEP CH3O SEP n C4H9 SEP n C4H9 SEP HCl SEP Al,d SEP 135 136.5 SEP 91 tb 11 SEP CH3O SEP n C3H7 SEP SEP HCl SEP Al, SEP d SEP 192 192.5 SEP 95 SEP f tb 12 I3 SEP CH3O SEP CH2 5 SEP HCl SEP A2 SEP 281.5 282.5 SEP 61 tb 13 I5 SEP NH2 SEP n C3H7 SEP COC2H5 SEP SEP D3 SEP NMR SEP b tb 14 SEP HO SEP CH3 SEP H SEP HBr SEP a SEP 220 220.5 SEP 70 tb 15 SEP HO SEP n C3H7 SEP H SEP HBr SEP a SEP 245 247 SEP 60 tb 16 SEP HO SEP n C4H9 SEP H SEP HBr SEP a SEP 195 196 SEP 26 tb 17 SEP HO SEP CH CH3 2 SEP H SEP HBr SEP a SEP 222 223 SEP 82 tb 18 SEP HO SEP n C8H17 SEP H SEP HBr SEP a SEP 213 214.5 SEP 46 tb 19 SEP HO SEP C2H5 SEP n C3H7 SEP HBr SEP a SEP 176.5 177.5 SEP 45 tb 20 El SEP HO SEP n C3H7 SEP n C3H7 SEP HBr SEP a SEP 221.5 222.5 SEP 89 tb 20 SEP HO SEP n C3H7 SEP n C3H7 SEP HBr SEP a SEP 178.5 179.5 SEP 67.5 SEP 89 SEP d tb c SEP 1.03 tb Compounds and experimental data cont. EMI24.1 EMI24.2 Melting tb Method SEP point SEP C tb Compound SEP Ref. SEP to SEP or SEP other tb a tb Example SEP No SEP Ya SEP R10 SEP R20 SEP Salt SEP Example SEP No. SEP data SEP alpha SEP Yield SEP tb 20 SEP HO SEP n C3H7 SEP n C3H7 SEP HBr SEP a SEP 178.5 179.5 SEP 67.5 SEP 82 SEP d . tb c SEP 1.01 tb 21 SEP HO SEP n C3H7 SEP n C4H9 SEP HBr SEP a SEP 175.5 177 SEP 42 tb 22 SEP HO SEP n C4H9 SEP n C4H9 SEP HBr SEP a SEP 176 178 SEP 52 tb 23 SEP HO SEP n C3H7 SEP SEP HBr SEP a SEP 216.5 217.5 SEP 76 tb 24 SEP HO SEP CH2 5 SEP HBr SEP a SEP 255.5 256.5 SEP 69 tb 25 E2 SEP NH2 SEP n C3H7 SEP n C3H7 SEP HCl SEP d SEP 249 tb 26 SEP SEP n C3H7 SEP n C3H7 SEP HCl SEP b SEP 143.5 145 SEP 85 tb 27 SEP CH3O SEP C2H5 SEP H SEP HCl SEP Al SEP 238 239 SEP 51 tb 28 SEP CH3O SEP C2H5 SEP C2H5 SEP HCl SEP Al, SEP d SEP 148.5 149.5 SEP 72 tb g tb 29 SEP CH3COO SEP n C3H7 SEP n C3H7 SEP b SEP NMR SEP 74 tb Footnotes to the preceding table a All salts, except for compound 25, were submitted for elemental analysis C, H, N All the analyses were satisfactory.b NMR CDCl3 0.9 3H, t , 1.15 3H, t , 1.4 3.7 15H, m , 6.35 6.7 2H, m , 6.95 1H, t Measured in methanol, enantiomeric purity 93 .d Yield from theoretical amount of isomer in racemate.e Compound 2 as starting material. Compound 6 as starting material.NMR CDCl3 0.89 6H, t , 1.44 4H, m , 1.2 2.2 2H, m , 2.27 3H, s , 2.47 4H, t , 2.3 3.1 5H, m , 6.7 7.26 3H, m . The following examples illustrate how the compounds of formula II or IIa employed according to the present invention may be included into pharmaceutical preparations.Example Pl Preparation of soft gelatine capsules 500 g of active substance are mixed with 500 g of corn oil, whereupon the mixture is filled in soft gelatine capsules, each capsule containing 100 mg of the mixture i.e. 50 mg of active substance .Example P2. Preparation of tablets 0.5 kg of active substance are mixed with 0.2 kg of silicic acid of the trade mark Aerosil. 0.45 kg of potato starch and 0.5 kg of lactose are mixed therewith and the mixture is moistened with a starch paste prepared from 50 g of potato starch and distilled water, whereupon the mixture is granulated through a sieve. The granulate is dried and sieved, whereupon 20 g of magnesium stearate are mixed into it. Finally the mixture is pressed into tablets each weighing 172 mg.Example P3. Preparation of a syrup 100 g of active substance are dissolved in 300 g of 95 ethanol1 whereupon 300 g of glycerol, aroma and colouring agents q.s. and 1000 ml of water are mixed therein. A syrup is obtaine d.Example P4. Preparation of an injection solutionActive substance hydrobromide 1 g , sodiumchloride 0.8 g and ascorbic acid 0.1 g are dissolved in sufficient amount of distilled water to give 100 ml of solution.This solution, which contains 10 mg of active substance per ml, is used in filling ampoules, which are sterilized by heating at 120 C for 20 minutes.Pharmacology Pharmacolocrical treatment of depression in manEvidence is available that in depressed patients the neurotransmission in the central nervous system CNS may be disturbed. These disturbances appear to involve the neurotransmitters noradrenaline NA and 5 hydroxytryptamine 5 HT . The drugs most frequently used in the treatment of depression are considered to act by improving the neurotransmission of either or both of thesis phsyiological agonists. Available data suggest that the enhancement of 5 HT neurotransmission will primarily improve the depressed mood and anxiety, whereas the enhancement of noradrenaline neurotransmission will rather improve the retardation symptoms occurring in depressed patients.In recent years many efforts have been made to develop new drugs with high selectivity for the improvement of the 5 HT neurotransmission in the CNS.The mechanism of action for the drugs generally used today in the therapy of mental depression is indirect, i.e. the act by blocking the reuptake of the neurotransmitters NA and or 5 HT released from nerve terminals in the CONS, thus increasing the concentration of these transmitters in the synaptic cleft and hence restoring an adequate neuro transmission. The new antidepressive agent Z Dimethylamino 1 4 bromophenyl 1 3 pyridyl propene zimelidine with documented good clinical effects is believed to act as such a i euptake inhibitor with high selectivity For 5 H neurons. A fundamentally different way to improve the neurotransmission in the central 5 HT neurons would be to use a direct 5 HT receptor agonist. In order to minimize side effects, a high selectivity for this kind of receptors would then be preferable.While searching for new dopamine DA receptor agonists, we surprisingly found that a group of compounds of the formula II and IIa instead had a selective, direct stimulating effect on central 5 HT receptors.In order to evaluate the 5 HT receptor stimulating effect and selectivity, the compounds were tested both behavioural and biochemically.Behavioural and biochemical activity in reserpine pretreate rats.a. Antagonism of the reserpine induced neuroleptic syndromes in the rat gross behavicur .Depletion of the monoamine stores with reserpine brings about a neuroleptic syndrome characterized by hypomotilitz catalepsy, muscle rigidity, hunch backed posture as well as a number of other central and peripheral signs of monoamine depletion. The whole or parts of this syndrome can be reversed by the administration of drugs that stimulate DA or 5 HT receptors directly or indirectly. Stimulation of the DA receptors e.g. with apomorphine gives rise to both locomotion and stereotyped behaviour such as sniffing, gnawing and jumping. On the other hand, stimulation of the 5 HT recestors e.g. with 5 hydroxytrypte phan 5 HTP combined with MAO inbibitors , gives rise to a very different behaviour. The animals lie flat on the cage locr exhibiting forward movements with extended forepaws padding piano playing and abducted hindlegs, occasionally with some tremor in the forebody and withStraubtail stiff tail i.a. reaction.b. In vivo determination of rat brain tyrosine and tryptophan hydroxylation after reserpine pretreatment biochemicalDA and 5 HT receptor activity .The compounds under evaluation were tested biochemically for central DA and 5 HT receptor pre and or postsynaptic stimulating activity. The concept of this biochemical screening method is that a DA or 5 HT receptor agonist will stimulate the receptor and through regulatory feedback systems effect a decline in tyrosine or tryptophan hydroxy lating activity, respectively, and a subsequent reduction in the synthesis rate for DA and 5 HT in the presynaptic neuron. Dopa and 5 HTP formation. as determined after in vivo inhibition of the aromatic L amino acid decarboxylase withNSD 1015 3 hydroxybenzylhydrazine hydrochloride are taken as indirect measures of DA and 5 HT synthesis rates, respectively.Analogous conditions probably exist also for central NAneurons. Effects on the dopa formation in the NA predominated hemispheral parts mainly cortex may thus be considered to reflect NA receptor mediated changes.c. Experimental procedures.Rats 150 300 g pretreated with reserpine 5 mg kg, 18 h before were given the compounds under evaluation. Gross behavioural observations changes in motility, hindleg abduction etc c.f. above were made. Subsequent 2dministration of SD 1015, decapitation, brain dissection corpora striate, the limbic forebrain and the remeinirX hemispheral portions mainly cortex of rat brain , homogenizetion. centrifugation, ion exchange chromatography and spectrofluorimetric measurements all as described in detail by Wikström et al., J. Med. Chem., 21, 864 667, 1978 and references cited therein gave the actual dopa and 5 HTP levels. Several doses n 4 6 were tested for each compound and brain area. The dose of a compound giving 70 of the control 5 HTP level in the rat brain part was then estimated.These values ED70 are presented in Table 1.d. Results.All the compounds in Table 1 were both behaviourally and biochemically active, producing the above mentioned effects indicating central 5 HT receptor stimulation. The absence of significant decreases in the dopa levels in the different brain parts suggests that none of the compounds possess central Nh or DA receptor stimulating effects at the dosage under consideration.The investigated compounds may be classified into 3 subgroups with regard to biochemical potency 1 those with an ED70 between 0.01 1.0 pmolJkg such as compound 20 and compound 21 which are considered to be most advantageous for medical use, 2 those with an ED70 between 1.0 10 pmol kg such as compounds 17 and 23 and 3 those with an ED70 above 10 umol kg such as compounds 18 and 10 which are considered to be of bordErline interest. The resolved isomers were found to be about as portent as the corresponding racemates. TABLE 1EMI31.1 EMI31.2 tb Compound SEP SEP ED70 SEP pmol kg, tb No. SEP Y SEP R10 SEP R20 SEP Salt SEP s.c. SEP for SEP 5 HTP tb SEP reduction SEP 8 ,b ,c tb SEP 8 SEP CH3D SEP n SEP C3H7 SEP n SEP C3H7 SEP HC1 SEP 0.4 tb CH3 SEP 0 SEP n C3H7 SEP n C3H7 SEP HC1 SEP 0.2 0.4 tb CH3D SEP n C3H7 SEP n C3H7 SEP HC1 SEP 0.3 0.4 tb SEP 10 SEP CH30 SEP n C4Hg SEP n SEP C4Hg SEP HC1 SEP 25 tb SEP 14 SEP HO SEP CH3 SEP H SEP HBr SEP 1.5 10 tb SEP 15 SEP HO SEP n C3H7 SEP H SEP HBr SEP 0.4 tb SEP 16 SEP HO SEP n C4Hg SEP H SEP HBr SEP 6 tb SEP 17 SEP HO SEP CH CH3 2 SEP H SEP HBr SEP 8 tb SEP 18 SEP HO SEP n C8H17 SEP H SEP HBr SEP 50 tb SEP 19 SEP HO SEP C2H5 SEP n C3H7 SEP HBr SEP 0.09 tb SEP 2C SEP HO SEP n SEP C3H7 SEP n C3H7 SEP HBr SEP 0.06 tb 20 SEP HO SEP n SEP C3H7 SEP n C3H7 SEP HBr tb 20 SEP HO SEP n C3H7 SEP n C3H7 SEP HBr tb SEP 21 SEP HO SEP n SEP C3H7 SEP n C4Hg SEP HBr tb SEP 22 SEP HO SEP n C4Hg SEP n C4Hg SEP HBr SEP 8 tb SEP 23 SEP HO SEP n C3H7 SEP CH2 SEP SEP HBr SEP 3 tb SEP 24 SEP HO SEP SEP CH2 5 SEP SEP HBr SEP s20 tb a ED 70 represents the dose giving 70 of the control 5 HTP level.b Similar values were obtained for all the brain parts the limbic forebrain, striatum and the hemispheral portions mainly cortex investigated.c None of the compounds tested gave any significant redur tion in dopa formation in the brain parts investigated at doses 8 times the ED70 Effect on the sexual functionsDue to the strong and selective 5 HT stimulating effect of the compounds of the invention, a few of these were also tested on the hetero sexual behaviour in male rats.There is considerable evidence that central 5 HT receptor activation is involved in mediating the sexual behaviour.During these pharmacological investigations it was revealed see below that the compounds of the invention have a very strong activity on the sexual behaviour in male rats,In the masculine mating pattern a marked dose dependent decrease was found in the number of intromissions as well as mounts preceding ejaculation, and in the ejaculatory latency, while the period of sexual inactivity following ejaculation was not significantly changed. The efficacy maximal effect in this respect for the compounds tested seems to be higher than for any other compound known and tested . It was in preliminary experiments further found that male rats rendered sexual inactive by castration became sexual active after treatment with compound 8.Due to these qualities of the compounds of the invention, also a possible therapeutic application in the treatment of sexual disturbances may certainly be foreseen. Experimental erocedure Male Wistar rats 12 months old sexually experienced were injected i.p. every second day in a balanced order with different doses of the compounds dissolved in physiological saline and injçcted in a volume of 2 ml kg. Testing was begun 15 min after the drug treatment. Mating arenas were 50 cm diameter acrylic glass cages with wood shavings on the floor. The stimulus females were of Wistar strain, primed with estradiol benzoate 20 g animal 48 h prior to testing and progesterone 0.5 ml animal 4 6 h before testing. The occurrence of mounts, intromissions and ejaculations were scored by an experienced observer. The measures of masculine copulatory behavior further included mount latency and intromission latency which are time from introduction of the stimulus female to the first mount and first intromission respectively. A copulatory series includes the mounts and intromissions preceding an ejacu lation. Ejaculatory latency is the time from the first intromission in a copulatory series to the ejaculation terminating that series. The postejaculatory interval is the time from an ejaculation to the next intromission. Tests were terminated when the rat had achieved one eja culation and started the second series of copulations, or, if the intromission latency was 15 min, the ejacula tion latency was 30 min, or the postejaculatory interval was 15 min. Results a. normal rats. Results obtained. for racemic 2 dipropylamino 5 methoxy tetralin compound 8 , its resolved enantiomers compounds 8 and 8 and 2 dipropylamino 8 hydroxytetralin compound 20 are shown in Table 2. The resolved isomers were found to be about as potent as the corresponding racemates. b. Castrated rats preliminary results Out of 9 castrated male rats treated with 8 mg kg of racemic compound 8, 5 mounted the female, 2 of these 5 made intromissions and 1 of these 2 ejaculated, while none out of 9 saline treated castrated animals showed any sexual activity. TABLE 2Compound Dose mg kg N Ejaculatory Intromissions Mounts Postejaculatory latency min a number a number a interval min a b 8. HCl 1 12 3.20 8 0 6.40 8. HCl 2 12 2.65 7 1 5.05 8. HCl 4 14 1.55 3.5 1 4.55 8. HCl 8 14 0.45 1.5 0 5.05 8. HCl 16 14 0.55 1 0 4.55 8 . HCl 4 20 1.05 2 1 6.15 8 . HCl 4 20 1.30 4.5 0.5 5.65Control 14 4.75 9 2 5.50 20 4 9 0.25 1 0 4.75Control 9 1.80 5 1 4.45 a Mediens are given.b Statistics Wilcoxon match d pair sign rank s test two tailed Significances p 0.05, p 0.02, p 0.01 All other values NS. Conclusion The pharmacological data affirm that the compounds of the present invention are very portent centrally acting 5 HT receptor stimulating agents with high selectivity for 5 HT over DA and NA receptors. At present, no compound with such properties seems to be known in the literature. In addition to this, the compounds have stronger effect than any other known compound on the masculine sexual behaviour. Due to this unique pharmacological profile, the compounds are of great clinical interest in the treatment of certain disorders in the ONS such as depression and sexual disturbances. Additional potential uses of the new compounds are in the control of pain, where 5 HT has been shown to be involved, and in senile disturbances of move ment and mental function e.g. senile dementia, where a decreased level of brain 5 HT has been demonstrated. Best mode of carrying out the invention The compound 2 di n propylemino 8 hydroxytetralin and its salts, processes for preparing said compound and methods employing said compound in therapy represent the best mode of carrying out the invention knon to the inventors at present.