# Medical radiation imaging apparatus.

## Abstract
A radiation imaging apparatus for forming three dimensional image matrices includes means for displaying image information therefrom in scanograms which are also formed by means of the apparatus. In a scanogram thus sup plemented, selected subsidiary regions are reproduced with a high resolution obtained from the image matrices and suit ably positioned with respect to the patient.

## Claims
1. A radiation imaging apparatus, comprising a detector which is composed of a series of individually readable detector elements and which is rotatable about a patient, either on its own or together with a radiation source, or which at least substantially surrounds the patient table, the patient table and at least the detector being arranged to be translatable with respect to one another, characterized in that there are provided means for transferring image information from a threedimensional image matrix to a scanogram. 2. A radiation imaging apparatus as claimed inClaim 1, characterized in that it is provided with anX ray tube which is accommodated, together with the detector, in a support which is rotatable about the patient carrier, the patient carrier being translatable with respect to the support. 3. A radiation imaging apparatus as claimed inClaim 1, characterized in that the radiation to be measured is generated in a patient under examination, the detector being arranged to measure this radiation. 4. A radiation imaging apparatus as claimed inClaim 1, 2 or 3, characterized in that, in addition to the detector for measuring radiation emitted by an X ray source and attenuated or scattered by a patient, there is further provided a detector for measuring gamma radiation emitted by a patient under examination. 5. A radiation imaging apparatus as claimed in any of the preceding Claims, characterized in that the patient carrier includes a drive mechanism for accurately defined, step wise displacement of the patient carrier in a direction transverse to the Planes of slices to be made. 6. A radiation imaging apparatus as claimed in any of the preceding Claims, characterized in that it comprises an arithmetic unit for selecting on the base of image orientation, profiles from scan derived images and for composing a scanogram therefrom. 7. A radiation imaging apparatus as claimed in any of the preceding Claims, characterized in that for a simultaneous display of scanograms relating to different projection directions, a plurality of television monitors are provided. 8. A radiation imaging apparatus as claimed inClaim 1, 5, 6 or 7, characterized in that the radiation source is formed by a high frequency sound source, the detector being formed by a series of corresponding detector transducers. 9. A radiation imaging apparatus as claimed inClaim 1, 5, 6 or 7, characterized in that it is provided with a radiation source formed by an electromagnetic coil system for generating a magnetic alternating field in the z range, the detector being adapted to discriminate local differences in the radiation absorption in a patient. 10. A radiation imagnng apparatus as claimed inClaim 1, 2, 5, 6 or 7, characterized in that it is provided with a high voltage X rat tube, with a collimator for selecting a pencil like radiation beam detector being arranged to detect strong radiation occurring in a body to be examined.

## Description
Medical radiation imaging apparatus. The invention relates to a radiation imaging apparatus, comprising a detector which is composed of a series of individually readable detector elements and which is rotatable about a patient table, either on its own or together with a radiation source, or which at least substantially surrounds the patient table, the patient table and at least the detector being arranged to be translatable with respect to one another. A radiography apparatus of this kind is known as an X ray scanner from British Patent Specification 1,558,155. When an apparatus described therein is used for forming scanograms by means of computer calculation of absorption values, any anomalies present in the body under examination are usually only vague by defined and their positions are difficult to establish. A scanogram is to be understood to mean herein an image which is formed by moving an object and a detector with respect to one another in a longitudinal direction in an apparatus of the kind set forth with its rotation mechanism in a locked condition, and by recording for each location an edgewise shadowgraph image of a transaxial body section which will be called a profile, at a small distance from one another in a longitudinal direction. In principle, therefore, a scanogram is similar to a well known shadowgraph image radiographic , except that it is composed of a series of profiles. A profile is to be understood to mean herein a one dimensional, flat shadowgraph image recorded from a fixed direction by means of a multi element detector.An apparatus for forming scanograms and the advantages thereof are described in United States Patent Specification 3,101,407. When a sectional region of the object is measured in a plurality of source detector positions which are angularly displaced about a rotation axis with respect to one another in order to form a scanderived sectional image i.e. an image such as that customarily formed by an X ray scanner, a scan drived sectional image can be formed by the appropriate combination of measurement data thus obtained. A threedimensional image matrix, also referred to as a scanderived image, can be formed from a series of scanderived sectional images of consecutive planar sectional regions in an object. Measurements required to form a scan derived sectional image will be referred to hereinafter as a scan.It is to be noted that a profile can thus be made to constitute both to a scan derived image and to a scanogram, so that it can supply data for the computation of a three dimensional image matrix or data for a scanogram. For example, for therapy purposes the radiologist requires a scanogram in which any anomalies are shown with adequate contrast and accurately positioned within their environment. The invention has for its object to satisfy this requirement to achieve this, a radiography apparatus of the kind set forth is characterized in that it comprises means for transferring image information from a three dimensional image matrix to a scanogram. In an apparatus in accordance with the invention, measurement data which concern subsidiary regions, for example, a region containing an anomaly in a patient under examination, and whose position is known exactly and in which the contrast is high, can be transferred from an arbitrarily formed three dimensional matrix image to a scanogram or another arbitrarily formed general image. Because a profile is an edge projection of a scan derived sectional image, areas in a scan derived sectional image are thus reproduced in the profile as lines in the plane of the slice. In a scanogram a pattern of mutually parallel lines is thus formed, and when this is done in scanograms which are respectively formed using different projections, for example, one from front to back and another from one side to the other of a patient under examination, the anomaly can be unambiguously located. Obviously, this technique will also benefit the unambiguous location of an anomaly with respect to further structures in the body, for example, the location of an anomaly with respect to given bones or other suitably recognizable organs. A preferred embodiment of the apparatus is formed by an X ray scanner in which the radiation source and the detector are arranged to be rotatable together about the object under examination, an object carrier being arranged to be axially translatable in exact defined steps with respect to the sourcedetector combination. In a further embodiment, the object under examination itself forms the radiation source, for example, a patient injected with a radioactive tracer, either only the detector being arranged to be rotatable with respect to the patient or the patient being surrounded almost completely by the detector. In a further embodiment, a memory arithmetic unit added to the apparatus comprises means for selecting profiles from scan derived sectional images in dependence on their projection directions in order to form a scanogram from a consecutive series of such profiles.Thus, the need for recording a scanogram together with the series of scan derived images throughout a relevant part of a body under examination, is eliminated.Structures from scan derived images can also be represented in a scanogram synthetically formed in this manner. Addition of stereo tactic means to the apparatus enables the reproduction of the position and the direction of, for example, a surgical instrument, such as a needle, with respect to a marked target zone in a scano gram filled with scan derived image information according to the invention. An apparatus in accordance with the invention also enables radioactive tracer derived emission images and X ray shadowgraph images of an object under examination to be correlated, so that data obtained by means of both methods can be presented in a single display. Even though the invention will be described mainly with reference to an X ray scanner for producing both a three dimensional image matrix and a scanogram, the invention is not restricted thereto. The three dimensional image matrix, for example, can alternatively be formed by using ultrasound, nuclear magnetic resonance or compton scattering measurements. However, an accurate location correlation must always exist between the threedimensional image matrix and the scanogram. Some preferred embodiments in accordance with the invention will be described in detail hereinafter with reference to the drawing. The drawing diagrammatically shows an X ray scanner which comprises an X ray source 2, a detector 4 which is composed of a series of detector elements 6 which are adjacently arranged in a row and which may alternatively form a closed ring so that the detector need not be rotatable about an object 16, a high voltage generator 8 and an object carrier 10 with a drive mechanism 12. The source 2 and the detector 4 of this embodiment are mounted on a common support 14 which enables the source and the detector to be rotated about the object 16 positioned on the object carrier. For reading the detector signals, the apparatus comprises a detector read out unit 18 which preferably includes a signal amplifier and an analog to digital converter.Under the control of processed detector signals, a control device 20 controls a control mechanism 22 which controls and effects the rotation of the source detector support, the translation of the object carrier, and the control of the high voltage generator. The control device is furthermore connected to a memory 24 and to a signal modulator 28 which is associated with a television monitor 26. For further signal processing there are provided an arithmetic unit 30, a selection device 32 and an image computing and reconstruction device 34. An apparatus of this kind is suitable for forming and recording a scan derived sectional image at each of a succession of positions of the object carrier relative to the source and detector. All relevant measurement signals are processed in the detector read out unit 18 and are applied, via the control device 20 for synchronization, to the arithmetic unit 30 for further processing, or are stored in the memory 24 for processing at a later stage. A series of successive scan derived sectional images are used to form a three dimensional matrix of absorption values from which a sectional image which can be displayed on the monitor, can be formed in known manner.In a manner similar to the method described in United States Patent Specification 3, 101 , 07, the apparatus can be used to form scanograms by sliding the object carrier preferably step wise through the support 14 with the rotation device in a locked condition. A location indicator 36, for example, as described in German Patent Specification 26 31 809, may be useful for locating each of the profiles with respect to a reference plane. Using the arithmetic device, image points which it is desired to select from the threedimensional matrix of absorption values can be transferred to the scanogram, after which a scanogram thus treated can be displayed on the monitor.The selection of a region of interest to be transferred from the scanderived images to the scanograms can be indicated, for example, by means of a light pen indicator 3S, in a moni tor display of each scan derive l sectional image. other forms of interactive arrangements can alternatively be used for this puri ose. The arithmetic unit also enables a selection to be invade oj one or more projection direct ions, i.e. a selection of one or more sets of profiles, each set relating to a fixed source object direction, from each of a series of scan derived sectional images, and to combine the profiles relating to a set so as to form a scanogram for the selected direction. When the detector for measuring the X rays in an apparatus in accordance with the invention is augmented by an adjacently mounted ring of detector elements for measuring, for example, gamma rays, both X ray images and emission images can be made using the same apparatus the latter images are made after injection of an appropriate radio active tracer and correlation of these images in the same display is again possible. A scanogram can thus be formed in which data obtained using the two methods is optimally combined. The possibility of exact positioning alternatively enables images recorded using different apparatus for the different types of measurement, to be combined in a single display.Preferably, the same object carrier would then be used for the various different forms of measurement. For compton scattering measurements, the source 2 in the described embodiment is, for example, a suitable highvoltage X ray tube approximately 350 v to which the detector sensitivity is matched. For nuclear magnetic resonance measurements, excitation is provided by suitable electromagnetic coils with a corresponding form of detector device, and for ultrasound the source is formed by a high frequency sound source with a detector in the form of a series of suitable transducers. Similarly, both three dimensional image matrices and scanograms can be formed by means of a radioactive tracer introduced into the patient. In accordance with the invention, image data can then again be transferred from the three dimensional image matrix to a scanogram or a similar type of synthetically formed general image.