# Device for admitting air to the exhaust manifold of an internal combustion engine.

## Abstract
A device comprising a control valve assembly having a cupshaped valve seat member 48 mounted with its open end facing the air admission to the exhaust manifold and provided with an air inlet opening 118 in its closed end. The valve seat member 48 provides an annular valve seat for engagement with a valve disc 50 which is pressed to a closed condition by a spring 52 .

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A device , 10 for admitting air to the exhaust manifold of an internal combustion engine comprising an air admission tube 12 a connector 14 at one end of the tube whereby the tube can be connected to an exhaust manifold and a control valve assembly 16 at the other end of the tube to control the passage of gas through the air admission tube characterized in that the control valve assembly comprises a generally cup shaped valve seat member 48 mounted with its open end 65 facing the air admission tube 12 and formed with an air inlet opening 66 in its closed end 68 , the valve seat member providing an annular valve seat 70 at its open end a valve disc 50 to engage the valve seat 70 and a valve spring 52 to press the valve disc 50 towards the valve seat 70 the valve disc and the valve seat member defining a chamber 74 on the atmospheric side of the valve disc into which chamber air can be drawn through the air inlet opening. 2. A device according to claim 1 characterized in that the said chamber 74 is of greater cross sectional area in the region of the valve seat 70 than at the closed end 68 of the valve seat member. 3. A device according to claim 2 characterized in that said chamber 74 is formed with two cylindrical portions 86, 68 of differing diameters. 4. A device according to claim 3 characterized in that the diameter of the portion 86 having the smaller diameter is from 70 to 90 of the diameter of the portion 88 having the larger diameter. 5. A device according to claim 3 or claim 4 characterized in that the air inlet opening 66 is of circular cross sectional shape, the diameter of the air inlet opening lying in the range of from 10 to 308 of the diameter of the cylindrical chamber portion of larger diameter. 6. A device according to any one of claims 3 to 5 characterized in that the depth of said chamber 74 measured from said valve seat 70 to the closed end 68 of the valve seat member lies in the range of from 40 to 60 of the diameter of the cylindrical chamber portion 88 of larger diameter. 7. A device according to any one of the preceding claims characterized in that said valve spring 52 is in the form of a coiled compression spring and said valve disc 50 is formed of a metal. of density lower than that of steel. 8. A device according to any one of the preceding claims characterized in that said control assembly 16 is set so as to open upon application to the air admission tube 12 of a pressure of from 11.cm to 21.5cm of water below one atmosphere. 9. A device according to any one of the preceding claims characterized in that said control valve assembly 16 is formed predominantly of metal or metals having a density lower than that of steel. 10. A device according to any one of the preceding calims characterized in that said air admission tube 12 comprises an inner tube portion 32 at said one end and an outer tube portion 34 at said other end, the internal diameter of the inner portion being larger than the internal diameter of the outer tube portion.

## Description
TITLE DEVICE FOR ADMITTING AIR TO THE EXHAUST MANIFOLD OF AN INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINE This invention relates to devices for admitting air to the exhaust manifolds of internal combustion engines. Such devices may, for convenience, be referred to as exhaust aspirators . Broadly, the function of an exhaust aspirator is to permit the induction of air into the exhaust manifold from the atmosphere at certain points during the cycle of pressure changes which occur in the exhaust manifold during normal running of the engine. At normal engine speeds, due in part to overlapping in the times of opening of certain.inlet and exhaust valves of an internal combustion engine, it is possible for the exhaust gases which have been discharged from one cylinder of the engine to be drawn into another cylinder, thereby reducing the performance of the engine. A further factor is that vacuum waves occurring in the exhaust system tend to inhibit the discharge therefrom of exhaust gases. A function of an exhaust aspirator is to permit the induction of relatively clean air into the exhaust manifold so as to damp down such vacuum waves, thereby promoting more effective exhaust gas discharge. Also, the aspirator operates to cause the aspirated air, rather than exhaust gas to be drawn into a combustion chamber of the engine together with the combustion charge, in the manner mentioned above. In British patent specifications 639,790 and 655,761 there are disclosed exhaust aspirators intended to perform the function disclosed above. It is found in practice however, that the exhaust aspirators as disclosed in these prior British patent specifications are subject to certain limitations so far ds concerns the range of engine speeds. at which they provide improved performance. More specifically, it has been found that the exhaust aspirators of these prior patent specifications do not provide significant admission of air to the exhaust manifold of an engine at engine speeds much above one thousand five hundred revolutions per minute. An object of the present invention is to provide an exhaust aspirator and a valve seat member therefor providing improved performance at engine speeds of one thousand five hundred r.p.m. and above. According to the invention there is provided a device for admitting air to the exhaust manifold of an internal combustion engine comprising an air admission tube a connector at one end of the tube whereby the tube can be connected to an exhaust manifold and a control valve assembly at the other end of the tube to control the passage of gas through the air admission tube characterized in that the control valve assembly comprises a generally cup shaped valve seat member mounted with itsOpen end facing the air admission tube and formed with an air inlet opening in its closed end, the valve seat member providing an annular valve seat at its open end a valve disc to engage the valve seat and a valve spring to press the valve disc towards the valve seat the valve disc and the valve seat member defining a chamber on the atmospheric side of the valve disc into which chamber air can be drawn through the air inlet opening. The invention also provides a valve seat member suitable for use in a device as defined in the preceding paragraph. Preferably the chamber defined by the valve disc and the valve seat member is of greater cross sectional area in the region of the valve seat than at the closed end of the valve seat member. The chamber may be formed with two cylindrical portions of differing diameters, for this purpose.The diameter of the portion having the smaller diameter may be from 708 to 90 of the diameter of the portion having the larger diameter. The air inlet opening may be of circular cross sectional shape with a diameter lying within the range of 108 to 30 of the diameter of the cylindrical chamber portion of larger diameter. The depth of the chamber measured from the valve seat to the closed end of the valve seat member may lie in the range of from 408 to 60 of the diaitetrof the cylindrical chamber portion of larger diameter. Embodiments of the invention will now be described by way of example with reference to the accompanying drawings in which Fig 1 shows a side elevation view of an exhaust aspirator Figs 2, 3 and 4 show an exploded view, partly in section, of a control valve assembly seen in Fig 1. Figs 3 and 4 show cross sectional views of a pair of interchangeable valve seat members for use in the control valve assembly Fig 5 shows, on a larger scale a section through a portion of a modified control valve assembly and Figs 6 and 7 show perspective views of the open and closed ends respectively, of thec shaped valve seat member also seen in Figs 3 and 5. Figl shows a device 10 for admitting air to the exhaust manifold of an internal combustion engine. Device 10 will be referred to as an exhaust aspirator. Exhaust aspirator 1U comprises an air admission tube 12, a connector 14 at one end of the tube whereby the tube can be connected to the exhaust manifold not shown of an internal combustion engine, and a control valve assembly 16 at the other end of the air admission tube, to control the passage of gas through that tube. It is deemed unnecessary to describe or illustrate the exhaust manifold in detail since such a structure is so well known in the art. Connector 14 is in the form of a steel tube 18 having screw threaded end portions 20, 22 between which a central portion 24 carries six integrally formed cooling fins 26. Screw threaded end portion 20 is to be received in an appropriately drilled and tapped hole formed in the exhaust manifbld of an internal combustion engine, such as a petrol engine of a car. The hole to receive end portion 20 is preferably formed in the manifold as close as possible to the cylinder block of the engine. It may be formed in any one of the portions of the manifold connected to individual cylinders of the internal combustion engine. Air admission tube 12 has a flanged inner end 28 which co operates with a brass nut 30 to join tube 12 to connector 14. The exhaust aspirator 10 shown in Fig 1 is intended for a car having a petrol engine, and air admission tube is of length 45cm. The tube comprises inner, central and outer portions 32, 34 and 36 respectively, each of which is of constant internal diameter, the internal diameter of portion 36 being larger than that of portion 34, which in turn is larger than that of portion 32. The three tube portions 32, 34 and 36 are formed of copper suitably brazed or welded together, A stay 38 having an internal rubber grommet 40 is provided to receive through an aperture 42 a bolt . not shown whereby the stay is secured to an appropriate fixed structure within the engine compartment of the car so as to reduce vibration of air admission tube 12 during use. Control valve assembly 16 is formed predomintntly of aluminium or of a metal alloy so as to have a density less than that of steel whereby vibration of the copper air admission tube 12 is reduced during use. Turning now to the details of the structure of control valve assembly 16, reference is directed more particularly to Figs 3,4, 6 and 7 in which it can be seen that the valve assembly comprises interfitting inner and outer caps 44 and 46 respectively which form a housing for a valve seat member 4e, a valve disc 50 to engage the valve seat, and a valve spring 52 to press the valve disc towards the valve seat. Inner cap 44 has a central opening at its inner end in which is secured a tubular union 54 having an internal screw thread 56 at its inner end in which is received a corresponding screw threaded male union 58 provided at the outer end of air admission tube 12. The outer end 60 of union 54 is in the form of a cylindrical sleeve forming a mounting for valve seat member 48 and a housing for valve disc 50 and valve spring 52. Outer cap 46 is proportioned to fit over inner cap 44 to define a housing, and has deformable ears 62 which are bent over so as to secure the two caps together during assembly. A gap for the entry of air into the control valve assembly 16 in the direction indicated by arrows 64 is provided between the two caps, 44, 46. As shown in Figures 3, 6 and 7, valve seat member 48 is generally cup shaped and is mounted with its open end 65 facing the air admission tube 12 and is formed with an air inlet opening 66 in its closed end 68. The valve seat member provides an annular valve seat 70 at its open end. The valve seat is flat and annular in form and provided with a very finely machined and polished surface for good sealing engagement with valve disc 50. Valve seat member 48 is, on assembly, press fitted into sleeve 60 so as to be gripped and held thereby. Valve spring 52 is located at its inner end in a recess 72 formed in union 54, the spring pressing valve disc 50 against valve seat 70. During assembly of exhaust aspirator lu, the control valve assembly 16 is set so as to open ie. valve disc 50 lifts from valve seat 70 upon application to air admission tube 12 of a pressure of from 10.2 cm. 4.0 inches to 25.4cm. 10.0 inches of water below one atmosphere. The preferred range of pressures is from 11.5 cm to 21.5 cm of water below one atmosphere. The setting which suits the majority of petrol engines for cars is 15.9 cm 6.25 inches of water below one atmosphere, and variations of 0.6cm of water on both sides of this figure. These valve opening pressures are determined by means of a water manometer which is connected to tube 12 during assembly. The valve opening pressure is set by adjustment of the position of valve seat member 48 in sleeve 6U during the operation of pressing valve member 48 into sleeve 60 as a friction fit therein. As the valve seat member is pressed into sleeve 60 the vacuum which the valve assembly can sustain increases. The correct position of the valve seat member is indicated when the valve assembly opens at the selected pressure in the ranges indicated above. Valve disc 50 and valve seat member 48 define a chamber 74 on the atmospheric side of the valve disc ie. the opposite side from the exhaust manifold into which chamber air can be drawn through air inlet opening 66. Turning now to the shape, proportions and size of chamber 74, valve seat member 48 itself is cylindrical and the chamber 74 formed within it is likewise cylindrical and has a uniform diameter of 1Omm. Air inlet opening 66 is likewise cylindrical in form, its diameter is 2mm and it has frustoconical portions at its opposite ends. The depth 76 of the chamber 74 is 5mm measured between valve seat 70 and the closed end of chamber 74. Valve seat 78 shown in Fig 4 differs from valve seat 48 in having a chamber 80 which is of greater cross sectional area in the region of the valve seat 82 than at the closed end 84 of the valve seat member. This is achieved by forming chamber 80 with inner and outer portions 86 and 88 respectively, of differing diameters. The smaller diameter inner chamber portion 86 is of diameter 8mm and the outer chamber portion 88 is of the same diameter as chamber 74 namely 1Omm. Air inlet 90 is of diameter 2mm the same as inlet 66. It has been found that the dimensions, shapes and propartions of chambers 74 and 60 are critical to the performance of the exhaust aspirator at higher engine speeds. It has also been found that the diameter 92 of chamber portion 86 should be from 70 tt 90 of the diameter 94 of the chamber portion 88. In addition, the diameter of air inlet opening 90 has been found preferably to lie in the range of 108 to 30 of the diameter of portion. 88 of chamber 80 the figure in this embodiment being 208. Also, the depth 96 of chamber 80 measured from valve seat 82 to the closed end 84 of the valve seat member should preferably lie in the range from 40 to 608 of the diameter of chamber portion 88 the depth in this embodiment being 5mm which is 50 of the diameter of the wider chamber portion. Valve disc 50 is formed of a metal of density lower than that of steel preferably of a very low density alloy material. The disc is flat, formed with a very highly polished surface for engagement with valve seat 70, and lightly pressed against the seat by coiled compression spring 52. In use, the passage of exhaust gases from a combustion chamber of an engine through an exhaust manifold to the exhaust outlet proceeds in a series of high pressure waves, each followed by. a corresponding vacuum wave which reduces pressure within air admission tube 12 sufficiently to lift valve disc 50 from its valve seat and to admit air to tube 12 through the air inlet opening in the valve seat member 48 or 78. Successive engine cycles and the assoicated vacuum waves produce an inflow of air to the exhaust manifold thereby reducing the re cycling of exhaust gases in the engine, damping the vacuum waves and promoting more effective exhaust gas discharge. It has been found that the provision of chambers 74 and 80 within their respective valve seat members 48 and 78, together with the very light weight valve disc 50 significantly increases the engine speeds at which the aspirator 10 is able to operate. With the valve seat member 78, engine speeds of up to seven thousand revolutions per minute can be accommodated with satisfactory opening of the valve. The provision in chamber 80 of the step in diameter between chamber portions 88 and 86 provides frequency compatability between the two sides of valve disc 50. It is believed that resonance factors enter into the improvement in performance of the embodiments of the invention described above, as compared with previously proposed devices. These effects avoid the build up of static waves during use and thus avoid the effective blanking off of the air admission valve at relatively low engine speeds. By designing chamber 80 so that its volume and dimensions, and indeed its shape, are conducive to resonant frequency compatability with the air admission tube 12 and the exhaust system of the engine, an improvement in the response of the valve assembly at higher engine speeds is achieved.The need for frequency compatability between the ducts and chambers on the opposite sides of a control valve of an exhaust aspirator is believed to be a design criterion which is entirely new in this art. The resonant frequency of the chamber 80 need not be the same frequency as that of the air admission tube it is sufficient for the former to be a harmonic of the latter. The embodiment of Figure 5 is constructed in a similar manner to that of the embodiment of Figures 1 to 3, and cap 44, valve seat member 48, valve disc 50, and valve spring 52 are constructed as described above and have the same reference numerals as in the previous embodiment. A union 100 corresponding to union 54 is formed with a lower internally screw threaded portion 102 and an upper portion 104 the latter corresponding to portion 60 in the previous embodiment. Union 100 is secured to cap 44 as in the previous embodiment, and valve seat member 48 is secured within portion 104 with valve spring 52 holding valve disc 50 against the valve seat generally as described above. However, means is provided whereby the thrust exerted on valve disc 50 by spring 52 may be adjusted. For this purpose, a screw threaded adjustment sleeve 106 is received in portion 102 of the union and supports an annular washer 108 which is a free sliding fit within portion 1U2 of the union and serves as a seat for the inner end of valve spring 52. Position adjustment of member 106 by rotating it by means of a hexagon head 110 adjusts the vacuum at which valve disc 50 opens. A lock nut 112 enables a desired setting of member 106 to be maintained. This embodiment of the invention enables determinations to be made of the optimum valve opening pressure for any particular engine. Adjustments of the valve spring pressure can be made in situ on the engine. The optimum setting is indicated by the maximum flow rate of air through the valve assembly of Figure 5. This may be determined by means of a sensitive pressure monitoring device connected thereto for example an altimeter. Once the optimum valve opening pressure has been determined for a particular engine, this opening pressure can then be reproduced in the non adjustable embodiments of the invention as described above, in which the valve opening pressure is pre set during manufacture. Figure 5 also illustrates two further modifications the provision of a larger diameter portion 114 within valve member 48 as in Fig 4 , and the provision within the valve member 48 of a chamber of generally conical form as indicated by broken lines 116, the conical chamber tapering towards the air inlet opening 118. This modification is believed to provide improved resonance characteristics for certain applications. Further modifications of the performance of the valve assembly may be achieved by use of washers 108 having internal openings 120 of various diameters whereby the resonant frequency of the chamber on the engine side of valve 50 may be changed.