# Catch or lock.

## Abstract
A cam 3 is rotatable to move one or two resilient latching arms 20 at the end of which may be latching means 25 engageable on a hasp 4 to catch or lock an article. The cam 3 or casing 1 has a follower 18 which acts in a groove with a ramped bottom dividing the groove into two portions and preventing the cam from being totated from the second back to the first portion. When the cam is in a first position x with the follower in the first portion the latching means are held open and are inoperative for latch ing, the key is then inserted to move the can so the follower is in the second portion, wherein the cam is movable be tween positions y and z in which the latching means open and close respectively and wherein the key is removable in position z .

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A catch or lock comprising a rotatable cam 3 , means 12 in or on the cam for accepting a key 33 so that the cam can be rotated, at least one latch arm 20 and a hasp 4 , the latch or latches being biassed into engagement with the cam, the latch or latches being engageable with the hasp for locking, the arrangement being such that on insertion of the key into the catch or lock the cam may be rotated to disengage the latch or latches from the hasp, wherein a casing 1 is provided, and wherein a groove 15 is provided on the casing or cam with a ramped bottom so as to divide the groove into two portions 16 , 17 , the cam or casing having a follower 18 engaging in the groove, the ramp being such that the cam can be moved by the key 33 from the first portion 16 to the second portion 17 but not in reverse, the key 33 being able to be inserted or removed when the latch or latches are disengaged at a first position X of the cam when the follower is in the first groove portion 16 and the key 33 being able to be received or inserted when the latch or latches are engaged at a second position Z of the cam when the follower is in the second groove portion 17 , the cam being movable to a third cam position Y when the follower is in the second groove portion 17 at which third position the latch or latches are disengaged. 2. A catch or lock as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the cam 3 is substantially triangular. 3. A catch or lock as claimed in Claims 1 or 2 wherein the latch is formed as a member with a securing portion 9 which is secured to a casing 1 , resilient arms 20 extending from the securing portion either side of the cam 3 to latching means 25 engageable either side of the hasp 4 . 4. A catch or lock as claimed in Claim 3.wherein a bridge means 40 extends over the arms 20 to prevent undue movement in a direction parallel with the axis of rotation of the cam. 5. A catch or lock as claimed in Claims 3 or 4 wherein the cam 3 is provided with a circular retaining portion 22 which is engageable under the arms 20 to retain the cam between the arms and the casing. 6. A catch or lock as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the groove 15 and cam follower 18 act so as to guide the cam in its arcuate movement. 7. A catch or lock as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 6 wherein the groove 15 extends substantially over 1800, the first portion extending over substantially 600 8. An article to be caught or locked having the catch or lock of any of Claims 1 to 7 and a further catch for use to ensure the retention of the article in the closed position when the cam is in the first position X .

## Description
The present invention relates to a catch or lock. A catch or lock in accordance with the invention comprises a rotatable cam, means in or on the cam for accepting a key so that the cam can be rotated, at least one latch arm and a hasp, the latch or latches being biassed into engagement with the cam, the latch or latches being engageable with the hasp for locking, the arrangement being such that on insertion of the key into the catch or lock the cam may be rotated to disengage the latch or latches from the hasp, wherein a casing is provided, and wherein a groove is provided on the casing or cam with a ramped bottom so as to divide the groove into two portions, the cam or casing having a follower engaging in the groove, the ramp being such that the cam can be moved by the key from the first portion to the second portion but not in reverse, the key being able to be inserted or removed when the latch or latches are disengaged at a first position of the cam when the follower is in the first groove portion and the key being able to be received or inserted when the latch or latches are engaged at a second position of the cam when the follower is in the second groove portion, the cam being movable to a third cam position when the follower is in the second groove portion at which third position the latch or latches are disengaged. The arrangement provides a very simple lock which is economical to mould and can be operated by a simple key which is preferably double bitter The advantage of the above arrangement is that the catch or lock can be in a semi permanently disengaged condition when the cam follower is in the first portion and is inoperative. This is particularly useful for a dispenser for paper towels and the like which some operators prefer to be unlocked. In this case the cover is retained by suitable non locking means such as a stud springing into a hole,. If the dispenser operator requires the cover to be lockable, the cam follower is turned by the key to the second groove portion where the lock or catch is fully operative. Preferably the cam is substantially triangular in shape and two latches are provided, the cam acting between the latches so that on rotation of the cam both latches are disengaged from the hasp The invention will now be described by way of example with reference to the accompanying drawings in which Figure 1 is a plan view of a catch or lock according to the invention with the cam in a groove first portion and unlatched, Figure 2 is a cross section of part of Fig. 1 taken on AA with a key for operating the lock, Figure 3 is a plan view of the catch or lock of Fig. 1 showing the casing only, Figure 4 is a cross section of the casing ofFig. 3 taken on BB showing particularly the groove, Figure 5 is a plan view of the catch or lock ofFig. 1 with the cam in a groove second portion and latched, and, Figure 6 is a plan view of the catch or lock ofFig. 1 with the cam in the groove second portion and unlatched In Figure 1 of the drawings a catch or lock is shown formed from four main parts, namely a casing 1, a double latch member 2, a cam 3 and a hasp 4. The casing as shown in Figures 3 and 4 comprises a stud 5 engageable with a hole in the latch member 2, and a protrusion 6 with a tapped hole 7 to receive a screw 8, the screw 8 and stud 5 firmly locating the latch member s rear portion 9 on the casing. The casing also has a key aperture 12 surrounded by a bearing protrusion 13 for engaging with a recess 14 in the cam 3. Also the casing has a groove 15 which has a ramped first portion 16 and a second portion 17.The groove receives a follower 18 projecting from the bottom of the cam and the follower can rotate anti clockwise over the ramp in the groove from position X in Fig. 1 and into the second portion 17 but cannot rotate clockwise from second portion 17 to first portion 16 because of the ramp The double latch member 2 as shown in Figure 5 comprises a rear portion 9 firmly located to the casing as described above, resilient portions 20 extending from the fixed rear portion 9, cam engaging portions 21 which overlie a circular flange 22 of the cam so as to hold the cam onto the casing, and latch portions 24 terminating in hooks 25 which engage with barbs 26 of the hasp. The cam 3 is formed with a central triangular portion 30 in which is a recess 32 for a key 33 having a double bit 34. The portion 30 also has a hole 35 to receive the stem end 36 of the key. The cam also has follower 18, a retaining flange 22 and recess 14 as already described. The hasp is formed as described with two barbs 26 extending either side of a stem 38 see Fig. 6 . In order to ensure that when the key is inserted in the cam that the latch portions 24 are not forced out of engagement with the hasp a bridge 40 secured to the casing may be provided see Figs. 4 and 5 . A plug not shown can be fitted in casing key aperture 12 if the lock is not to be operative. The lock is normally supplied with the plug in aperture 12 and the lock is in a non locking state as shown in Fig. 1 with the follower 18 in position X. If it is required to use the lock the plug is removed, the key inserted in cam 3 into aperture 32 and the cam rotated so that the follower snaps over the ramp into second groove portion 17 on reaching position Z as shown in Fig. 5 the key can be removed and the lock is latched. To unlatch the lock the key is reinserted and the cam moved to position Y as shown in Fig. 6. In this position the key cannot be removed because recess 32 is misaligned with aperture 12.When the cam is in position Z as shown in Fig. 5 the hasp 4 can be sprung in locking engagement with latch member 2 It will be obvious from the fact that the cam 3 has an equilateral triangular shape that starting at position X as in Fig. 1 where the key is insertable and the latch member is open, the cam is 0 movable after key insertion through 120 to position Y as in Fig. 6 where the latch member is again openThence the cam moves through a further 600 to position Z as in Fig 5 where the key is removable and the latch member is closed. The total cam movement being 1800 the arcuate length of the groove being slightly greater to allow for cam follower thickness and the first portion 16 of the groove 15 is about 1200 and the second portion 17 about 600 with an allowance for cam follower thickness. A particular use for the lock described above as in a dispenser for paper towels and such like where some operators prefer the dispenser to be permanently unlocked whilst some operators prefer a lockable dispenser. It will be appreciated that the casing 1 can form part of an article to be locked that is being integral with the object being locked or else the casing can be a plate or the like which is attached by attachment means such as screws to the object being locked. It will also be appreciated that whilst the follower is described as being on the cam and the groove in the casing, the reverse is within the scope of the invention and would be equally effective. Also the groove can be circular with the second portion 1200 and the first portion 2400 in arcuate length.