# Cationic polymers and their use in electrodeposition.

## Abstract
Polymeric products are prepared by polymerizing in aqueous medium under addition polymerization conditions a dispersed phase of a polymerizable, ethylenically unsatu rated monomer or mixture of polymerizable, ethylenically unsaturated monomers in the presence of a polyepoxide amine adduct which contains pendent unsaturation and which contains cationic groups derived from the amine. The polymeric products are useful in water based coating com positions particularly for use in cationic electrodeposition.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A stable aqueous dispersion of a cationic polymeric product prepared by polymerizing in aqueous medium under free radical initiated addition polymerization conditions A an aqueous dispersed phase of a polymerizable, ethylenically unsaturated monomer composition, in the presence of B a polyepoxide amine adduct which contains pendent unsaturation and which contains cat ionic groups derived from the amine. 2. The dispersion of Claim 1 in which the monomer composition A includes a diene monomer. 3. The dispersion of Claim 2 in which the diene is 1,3 butadiene. 4. The dispersion of Claim 1 in which the monomer composition A includes an alkyl ester of acrylic or methacrylic acid containing from 1 to 8 carbon atoms in the alkyl group. 5. The dispersion of Claim 1 in which B is an at least partially neutralized polyepoxide primary and or secondary amine adduct. 6. The dispersion of Claim 1 in which B is a quaternary ammonium base group containing polymer which is formed from reacting a polyepoxide with a tertiary amine in the presence of a proton source. 7. The dispersion of Claim 5 or 6 in which thependent unstura tion is incorporated into the polyepoxide amine adduct through the amine reactant. 8. The dispersion of Claim 1 in which the polyepoxide amine adduct has an average molecular weight of from about 500 to 5000. 9. A method of electrocoating an electrically conductive surface serving as a cathode in an electrical circuit comprising said cathode, an anode and an aqueous electrodepositable composition which comprises passing an electric current between said cathode and anode and wherein the electrodepositable composition comprises an aqueous dispersion of the polymeric product of any of Claims 1 8.

## Description
CATIONIC POLYMERSAND THEIR USE IN ELECTRODEPOSITION Background of the Invention Field of the Invention The present invention relates to polymeric products and to aqueous dispersions of polymeric products. More particularly, this invention relates to polymeric products containing cationic salt groups and to their use in electrodeposition. Brief Description of the Prior Art Polymerization of diene and vinyl mpnomers in the presence of aqueous dispersions of anionic polymers is well known in the art. For example, U.S. Patent 4,055,52 to Jozwiak and Das discloses polymerization of dienes and mixtures of dienes and vinyl monomers in aqueous dispersions in the presence of partially neutralized maleinized oils. U.S. Patent 4,151,143 to Blank discloses a two stage polymerization process for the preparation of anionic acrylic polymer emulsions. The first stage involves the preparation of an acrylic polymer with COOH groups. The polymer is neutralized with a base and dispersed in water. The second stage involves polymerizing a mixture of vinyl monomers in the previously prepared dispersion. U.S. Patent 4,064,087 to Das is similar to U.S. Patent 4,151,143 mentioned above with the exception that the COOll containing acrylic polymer also contains pendent double bonds. Summary of the Invention In accordance with the present invention, polymeric products are prepared in aqueous medium by polymerizing under addition polymerization conditions A a dispersed phase of a polymerizable, ethylenically unsatu rated monomer composition, in the presence of B a polyepoxide amine adduct which contains pendent unsaturation and which contains cationic groups derived from the amine. The invention also provides aqueous dispersions of the polymeric products and a method of electrocoating an electrically conductive surface serving as a cathode in an electrical circuit comprising said cathode, an anode and an aqueous electrodepositable composition which comprises passing an electric current between said cathode and anode and wherein the electrodepositable composition comprises the aforementioned polymeric product.The pendent unsaturation can be derived from the amine such as diallyl amine or dimethylaminoethyl methacrylate. Other Patents Besides the patents mentioned above, other patents of which applicant is aware are as follows U.S. Patent 4,033,917 discloses the reaction of polyepoxides with fatty amines to form epoxy free unsaturated products. These products are then further reacted with a copolymerizable ethylenically unsaturated monomer component, a portion of which contains amine functionality, for example, a mixture of styrene and dimethylaminopropyl methacrylate. The resultant reaction product is treated with acid and dispersed in water to form an aqueous cat ionic polymer dispersion. U.S. Patent 4,085,161 is similar to U.S. Patent 4,033,917 mentioned above with the exception that an ethylenically unsaturated blocked isocyanate, for example, toluene diisocyanate capped with hydroxyethyl acrylate and a saturated alcohol, is included with the ethylenically unsaturated monomer component. The present invention differs from these patents in that the ethylenically unsaturated monomer component is polymerized in aqueous dispersion in the presence of a cationic polymer. These patents, on the other hand, disclose polymerization with the unneutralized polymer in organic solvent. After reactions neutralization and dispersion in water takes place. Detailed Description As mentioned above, the invention provides a polymeric product which is prepared in aqueous medium under addition polymerization conditions. An ethylenically unsaturated polymerizable monomer composition such as a monomer or mixture of monomers which contain CH2 CH moieties, for example, diene monomers, vinyl monomers and mixtures thereof is dispersed in aqueous medium and is subjected to addition polymerization conditions, for example, by heating in the presence of a free radical initiator. The polymerization is conducted in the presence of an at least partially neutralized polyepoxide amine adduct which contains pendent unsaturation. The monomer composition can be selected from a variety of polymerizable ethylenically unsaturated materials particularly those having CH2 CH moieties such as vinyl monomers, diene monomers and mixturesthereof. Examples of vinyl monomers which may be used are monoolefinic and diolefinic hydrocarbons such as C1 C18 alkyl acrylates and methacrylates.Examples include methyl methacrylate, butyl methacrylate, hexyl methacrylate, octyl methacrylate, isodecyl methacrylate, stearyl methacrylate, methyl acrylate, ethyl acrylate, butyl acrylate, hexyl acrylate, 2 ethylhexyl acrylate, octyl acrylate, decyl acrylate and dodecyl acrylate. Besides the alkyl esters of acrylic and methacrylic acid mentioned above, substituted alkyl esters, for example, hydroxyalkyl esters such as hydroxyethyl and hydroxypropyl acrylate and methacrylate can also be used. Examples of other vinyl monomers are esters of organic acids such as vinyl acetate and isopropenyl acetate allyl compounds such as allyl cyanide amides of acrylic and methacrylic acid such as acrylamide and methacrylamide and their N alkoxymethyl derivatives such as N ethoxymethyl and N butoxymethyl acrylamide and methacrylamide. Also, vinyl aromatic compounds such as styrene, alpha methyl styrene, alpha chloro styrene and vinyl toluene may be used, as well as organic nitriles such as acrylonitrile and methacrylonitrile. Mixtures of vinyl monomers may be used. Various dienes which may be used include 1,3 butadiene, isoprene and most of the di unsaturated members of the alkylidene series including both the unsubstituted and substituted conjugated diolefins. The substituted diolefins may be those containing lower alkyl groups or halogen groups directly bonded to the alkylidene chain. Representative examples of these diolefins include chloroprene and 2,3 dimethylbutadiene. Also, mixtures of dienes as well as mixtures of dienes and vinyl monomers can be used. The polyepoxide amine adducts which are used in the practice of the invention can be formed from reacting an organic polyepoxide with a primary, secondary or tertiary amine including mixtures thereof. The polyepoxides which are used in the practice of the invention are polymers having a 1,2 epoxy equivalency greater than 1, preferably about 2 or more.Preferred are polyepoxides which are difunctional with regard to epoxy.The preferred polyepoxides are polyglycidyl ethers of cyclic polyols. Particularly preferred are polyglycidyl ethers of polyphenols such as bisphenol A. These polyepoxides can be produced by etherification of a polyphenol with epihalohydrin or dihalohydrin such as epicblorohydrin or dichlorohydrin in the presence of alkali. Examples of polyphenols other than bisphenol A are 1, i bis 4 hydroxyphenyl ethane, 2 methyl i, l bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane, 2, 2 bis 4 hydroxy 3 tertiarybutylphenyl propane, bis 2 hydroxynaphthyl methane, 1,5 dihydroxynaphthalene or the like. Besides polyphenols, other cyclic polyols can be used in preparing the polyglycidyl ethers of cyclic polyol derivatives. Examples of other cyclic polyols would be alicyclic polyols, particularly cycloaliphatic polyols, such as 1,2 cyclohexanediol, 1,4 cyclohexanediol, 1,2bis hydroxymethyl cyclohexane, 1, 3 bis hydroxymethyl cyclohexane and hydrogenated bisphenol A. Also, oxyalkylated adducts such as ethylene and propylene oxide adducts of these alicyclic polyols and polyphenols mentioned above can be used as the cyclic polyol component. Examples of other polyepoxides are polyglycidyl ethers of polyhydric alcohols, such as ethylene glycol, diethylene glycol, triethylene glycol, 1,2 propylene glycol, 1,3 propylene glycol, 1,4 butylene glycol, 1,5 pentanediol and the like. Polyglycidyl esters of polycarboxylic acids which are produced by reaction of epichlorohydrin or a similar epoxy compound with an aliphatic or aromatic polycarboxylic acid can also be used. Examples of polycarboxylic acids are dicarboxylic acids such as adipic acid, succinic acid, glutaric acid, terephthalic acid, dimerized linoleic acid and the like. The polyepoxides such as the preferred polyglycidyl ethers of cyclic polyols can be further reacted to chain extend and increase their molecular weight. For example, they may be further reacted w1 hVatV hydrogen containing materials which are reactive with the epoxy groups such as those containing primary hydroxy groups. Examples of chain extenders are organic polyols, preferably polymeric polyols such as polyester polyols including polylactone polyols. Chain extending of epoxy containing polymeric materials with polymeric polyols is disclosed in U.S. Patent 4,148,772 to Marchetti, Zwack and Jerabek and assigned to PPG Industries, Inc. The polyepoxide can also be chain extended with N heterocycliccontaining materials such as described in U.S. Patent 4,144,159 to Bosso and Castellucci and assigned to PPG Industries, Inc. The organic amine which is reacted with the polyepoxide can be a primary, secondary or tertiary amine or mixtures thereof. Primary and Secondary Amines The preferred amines are monoamines. Polyamines such as ethylene diamine, diethylene triamine, triethylene tetramine, N 2 aminoethyl ethanolamine and piperizine can be used but their use is not preferred because they are multifunctional with regard to amine and have a greater tendency to gel the reaction mixture than monoamines. Secondary amines are preferred to primary amines because the primary amines are difunctional and have a greater tendency to gel the reaction mixture. When using polyamines or primary amines, special precautions should be taken to avoid gelation. For example, excess amine can be used and the excess vacuum stripped at the completion of the reaction.Also, the polyepoxide can be added to the amine to insure that excess amine will be present. Examples of suitable monoamines are mono and dialkyl amines and mixed alkyl aryl amines and substituted amines in which the substituents do not detrimentally affect the polyepoxide amine reaction.Specific examples of these amines are ethylamine, propylamine, methyl ethyl amine and diethylamine. Examples of substituted amines are hydroxylcontaining amines such as alkanolamines, dialkanolamines, alkyl alkanolamines and aryl alkanolamines containing from 2 to 18 carbon atoms in the alkanol, alkyl and aryl chains. Specific examples include ethanolamine,N methylethanolamine, diethanolamine and N phenylethanolamine. Mixtures of the various amines described above can be used. The reaction of a primary and or a secondary amine with the polyepoxide takes place upon mixing the amine with the polyepoxide. The reaction can be conducted neat or optionally in the presence of a suitable organic solvent.The reaction may be exothermic and cooling may be desired. However, heating at moderate temperature, that is, within the range of 50 to 1500C., may be used to hasten the reaction. The reaction product of the primary or secondary amine with the polyepoxide attains its cat ionic character by at least partial neutralization, for example, by treating with an acid forming secondary or tertiary amine salts. Examples of suitable acids include organic and inorganic acids such as formic acid, acetic acid, lactic acid and phosphoric acid.Besides acids, salts such as dimethylhydroxyethylammonium dihydrogenphosphate and ammonium dihydrogenphosphate can be used. The extent of neutralization will depend upon the particular product involved. It is only necessary that sufficient neutralizing agent be used to solubilize or disperse the product in water. Typically, the amount of neutralizing agent used will be sufficient to provide at least 30 percent of the total theoretical neutralization. In addition to the primary and secondary smines disclosed above, a portion of the amine which is reacted with the polyepoxide can be a ketimine or a polyamine. This is described in U.S. Patent 4,104,147 in column 6, line 23, to column 7, line 23, the portions of which are hereby incorporated by reference. The ketimine groups will decompose upon dispersing the polyepoxy amine adduct in water resulting in free primary amine groups which would be reactive with a curing agent which are described in more detail below. The polyepoxide amine adduct also contains pendent unsaturation which can be incorporated into the polymer in a variety of ways. For example, at least a portion of the primary and or secondary amine can be an ethylenically unsaturated amine including monoethylenically unsaturated amines and polyethylenically unsaturated amines. Examples include allylamine, diallyl amine, amines derived from drying and semi drying fatty acids such as soya fatty acid, oleic acid, linoleic acid and linolenic acid.Also a portion of the epoxy groups can be etherified with an ethylenically unsaturated alcohol including monoethylenically unsaturated alcohols and polyethylenically unsaturated alcohols. Examples include allyl alcohol, hydroxyethyl methacrylate and oleyl alcohol. Pendent unsaturation can also be incorporated into the polymer through the polyepoxide moiety, for example, by using 2,2 bis 3 allyl hydroxyphenyl propane in the preparation of the polyglycidyl ether of a cyclic polyol. The amount of pendent unsaturation present in the polymer can vary over fairly wide ranges. The unsaturation equivalent or the weight per unsaturated moiety will vary between about 500 to 10,000 and usually 1000 to 6000 calculated values . As mentioned above, the polyepoxide amine adduct is at least partially neutralized to form cat ionic salt groups which are necessary for subsequent dispersion in water. The step of dispersion is accomplished by combining the neutralized or partially neutralized polymer with the aqueous medium. Neutralization and dispersion can be accomplished in one step by combining the polyepoxide amine adduct and aqueous medium which contains the neutralizing agent. The polyepoxide amine adduct or its acid salt can be added to the aqueous medium or the aqueous medium added to the polymer or its salt . The pH of the dispersion is preferably within the range of 2 to 8. Tertiary Amines The tertiary amine which is reacted with the polyepoxide is preferably an unsaturated tertiary amine. The tertiary amine is reacted with the polyepoxide in the presence of a proton source such as acid to form a quaternary ammonium salt group containing polymer. This also means the tertiary amine can first be reacted with acid to form the amine salt and the salt reacted with the polyepoxide to form the quaternary ammonium salt group containing polymer. Also, the tertiary amines can be reacted with the polyepoxides in the presence of water to form the quaternary ammonium hydroxide group containing polymers. If desired, the quaternary ammonium hydroxide containing polymer can be subsequently acidified to form quaternary ammonium salt groups.Acidification can be complete or partial such that the polymer contains a mixture of quaternary ammonium hydroxide and quaternary ammonium salt groups. Suitable unsaturated tertiary amines are those which contain in addition to the tertiary amine group at least one ethylenically unsaturated copolymerizable group and containing up to about 22 carbon atoms and preferably from about 7 to 11 carbon atoms. Examples of compounds of this type are those having the following structural formula EMI10.1 wherein R1 is hydrogen or methyl, R2 and R3 are the same or different and are alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, preferably 1 to 2 carbon atoms, n is one of the integers 1 to 6, preferably 2 to 3 and A is oxygen or NR4 whereR4 is hydrogen or alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, preferably A is oxygen. Examples of suitable unsaturated tertiary amines are aminoalkyl esters of acrylic and methacrylic acid. Examples include N,N dimethylaminoethyl acrylate, N,N dimethylaminoethyl methacrylate, N methyl N butylaminoethyl acrylate, and N,N dimethylaminohexyl acrylate and N,N dimethylaminohexyl methacrylate. Examples of other suitable ethylenically unsaturated basic amino compounds are N aminoalkyl acrylamides or methacrylamides. Specific examples of such compounds are N,N dimethylaminoethyl acrylamide, N,N dimethylaminoethyl methacrylamide, N,N dimethylaminopropyl acrylamide, N,N dimethylaminopropyl methacrylamide, N,N dimethylaminohexyl acrylamide and N,N dimethylaminohexyl methacrylamide. Examples of other unsaturated tertiary amine compounds are monocyclic or bicyclic compounds having a 5 membered or 6 membered heterocyclic ring such as those containing a vinyl group and at least one tertiary amine group. The tertiary amine nitrogen can also bear the vinyl group. Suitable monocyclic and bicyclic compounds are those which contain no hetero atoms other than nitrogen and for the rest of the hydrocarbon radicals having not more than 20 carbon atoms. Specific examples are N vinyl pyrazole, N vinyl imidazole, N vinyl imidazoline, N vinyl piperidine and N vinyl indole. The reaction productDof the unsaturated tertiary amine with the polyepoxide attains its cation ic character by reaction in the presence of a proton source such as acid or water. Examples of suitable acids include organic and inorganic acids such as formic acid, acetic acid, lactic acid, boric acid and phosphoric acid. It is only necessary that sufficient acid be used to solubilize or disperse the product in water. Typically, the amount of acid used will be sufficient to provide at least 30 percent of the total theoretical neutralization. As mentioned above, in the reaction of the tertiary amine with the polyepoxide, the tertiary amine can be pre reacted with the acid such as those mentioned above to form the amine salt and the salt reacted with the polyepoxide to form the quaternary ammonium salt group containing resin.The reaction is conducted by mixing the amine salt and the polyepoxide together in the presence of a controlled amount of water. Typically , the water is employed on the basis of about 1.75 to about 20 percent by weight based on total reaction mixture solids. Alternately, the tertiary amine can be reacted with the polyepoxide in the presence of water to form a quaternary ammonium hydroxide group containing polymer which, if desired, may be subsequently acidified.The quaternary ammonium hydroxide containing polymer can also be used without acid. The amount of water employed for the formation of the quaternary ammonium hydroxide should, of course, be sufficient for the formation of quaternary ammonium hydroxide groups. Preferably, based on amine groups, a stoichiometric equivalent or excess of water, that is, at least 1 mole of water per equivalent of amine, should be used. Excess water should not be used because it may result in extremely slow or even nonreaction. In forming the quaternary ammonium base group containing polymer, the reaction temperature can be varied between the lowest temperature at which reaction reasonably proceeds, for example, room temperature, or in the usual case, slightly above room temperature, to a maximum temperature of 100it. at atmospheric pressure .At greater than atmospheric pressure, higher reaction temperatures can be used. Preferably, the reaction temperature ranges between about 60e to 100it. Solvent for the reaction is usually not necessary, although an organic solvent such as a sterically hindered ester, ether or sterically hindered ketone may be used if desired. In addition to the unsaturated tertiary amines disclosed above, the amine can be a saturated tertiary amine such as me thyldiethyl amine and pendent unsaturation incorporated into the polymer by etherifying a portion of the epoxy groups with an ethylenically unsaturated alcohol or by using materials such as 2,2 bis 3 allyl hydroxyphenyl propane as described above.Also, a portion of the amine which is reacted with the polyepoxide can be a ketimine or a polyamine as described above. In general, most of the cationic polymers useful in the practice of the invention have average molecular weights Ccalculated values within the range of 500 to 5000, preferably about 1000 to 3000, and contain from about 0.1 to 3.0, preferably from about 0.3 to 1.0 milliequivalents of cationic nitrogen per gram of resin solids. Obviously, one must use the skill in the art to couple the molecular weight of the cationic group content to arrive at a satisfactory polymer. The amount of pendant unsaturation present in the polymer can vary over fairly wide ranges. The unsaturation equivalent or the weight per unsaturated moiety will vary between about 500 to 10,000 and usually 1000 to 6000 calculated values . The cationic polyepoxide amine adduct serves as a dispersant for the subsequent polymerization of the dispersed phase of the polymerizable, ethylenically unsaturated monomer composition. The monomer component is dispersed in the aqueous medium in the presence of the polyepoxide amine dispersant and subjected to addition polymerization conditions such as by heating in the presence of a free radical initiator. The time and temperature of polymerization will depend on one another, the ingredients selected and the scale of the reaction.Usually polymerization will be between about 2 to 20 hours at 75 to 100 C. For electrodeposition end use, the polymerization is preferably conducted in the presence of an oil soluble free radical polymerization initiator and preferably in the presence of a chain transfer agent which is also oil soluble. Water soluble salt forming free radical catalysts are preferably not used when the product is to be used in electrodeposition. Examples of free oil soluble free radical initiators are those which are soluble in the monomer component such as azobisisobutyronitrile, azobis alpha, gamma dimethylvaleronitrile , tertiary butyl perbenzoate, tertiary butyl paracetate, benzoyl peroxide and ditertiary butyl peroxide. The amount of free radical initiator which is used should be about 1 to 4 percent by weight based on weight of polymerizable monomer component. Preferably, a chain transfer agent which is soluble in the monomer component such as alkyl mercaptans, for example, tertiary dodecyl mercaptan, 2 mercaptoethanol, isooctyl mercaptopropionate, n octyl mercaptan or 3 mercapto acetic acid is preferably incorporated into the polymer charge.Other chain transfer agents such as ketones, for example, methyl ethyl ketone, chlorocarbons such as chloroform can be used. Chain transfer agents provide the necessary control over molecular weight to give products having the required viscosity for electrodeposition. Tertiary dodecyl mercaptan is preferred. If used, the amount of chain transfer agent should be about 1 to 6 percent by weight based on weight of polymerizable monomer composition. Preferred products are obtained from using about 2.5 to 50, preferably 5 to 25 percent by weight of the polyepoxide amine dispersant and from about 50 to 97.5, preferably 95 to 75 percent by weight of the dispersed phase of the monomer component the percentage by weight being based on total weight of the dispersant and the dispersed phase. For polymerization of the dispersed phase in the presence of the dispersant, the aqueous medium preferably should be present in amounts of about 50 to 90, preferably about 55 to 75 percent by weight based on total weight of the dispersant and the aqueous medium. Besides water, the aqueous medium can contain some organic cosolvents. The organic cosolvents are preferably at least partially soluble with water. Examples of such solvents include oxygenated organic solvents such as monoalkyl ethers of ethylene glycol and diethylene glycol which contain from 1 to 4 carbon atoms in the alkyl group such as the monoethyl and monobutyl ethers of ethylene glycol and diethylene glycol. Examples of other water soluble solvents include alcohols such as ethanol, isopropanol, butanol and diacetone alcohol. If used, the organic cosolvents are used in amounts less than 10 and preferably less than 5 percent by weight based on total weight of the aqueous medium. Polymeric products can be prepared in accordance with the present invention to form stable aqueous dispersions. By stable is meant the dispersions will not gel, flocculate nor precipitate at a temperature of 25 C. for at least 60 days. If some precipitation does occur, the precipitate can be easily redispersed by low shear agitation. The aqueous dispersions are usually two phase, translucent, aqueous polymer systems in which the aqueous phase forms the continuous phase. The polymeric products of the present invention contain active hydrogens such as hydroxyl, primary and secondary amino which make them reactive at elevated temperatures with a curing agent. The curing agent which is used should be one which is stable in the dispersion of the polymeric product at room temperature but reactive with the active hydrogens at elevated temperature, that is, from about 90 to 260etc., to form a crosslinked product. Examples of suitable curing agents are capped or blocked isocyanates, aminoplast resins and phenolic resins such as phenol formaldehyde condensates including allyl ether derivatives thereof. Examples of capped isocyanates are those described in U.S. Patent 4,104,147, column 7, line 36, continuing to column 8, line 37, the portions of which are hereby incorporated by reference. Sufficient capped isocyanate is present such that the equivalent ratio of latent isocyanate groups to active hydrogens of the polymer is at least 0.1 1, preferably about 0.3 to 1 1. Examples of aminoplast resins are those described in U.S. Patent 3,937,679 to Bosso and Wismer in column 16, line 3, continuing to column 17, line 47, the portions of which are hereby incorporated by reference. Also disclosed in the aforementioned portions of the 679 patent, the aminoplast can be used in combination with the methylol phenol ethers. Aminoplast curing agents usually constitute from about 1 to 60, preferably 5 to 40 percent by weight of the resinous composition based on total weight of aminoplast and the polymeric product. The resin solids content of the aqueous dispersions of the polymeric products of the present invention depends upon the particular end use of the dispersion and is in general not critical. Aqueous dispersions containing at least 1 and usually from about 5 to 40 percent by weight resin solids are typical. For electrodeposition use, resin solids contents of about 5 to 20 percent are usually used. Aqueous dispersions of the polymeric products of the present invention can be used in coating applications. The coating composition can be used to form clear coatings or optionally can be pigmented. The pigments may be any of the conventional type comprising, for example, iron oxides, lead oxides, strontium chromate, carbon black, coal dust, titanium dioxide, talc, barium sulfate, as well as color pigments such as cadmium yellow, cadmium red, chromium yellow, phthalocyanine blue and the metallic pigments such as aluminum flake. The pigment content of the dispersion is usually expressed as the pigment to resin ratio. Pigment to resin ratio within the range of 0.02 to 1 1 is typical. In addition to pigment, various additives such as fillers, plasticizers, anti oxidants, ultraviolet light absorbers, defoamers, fungicides, flow control agents, surfactants and other formulating additives can optionally be employed if desired. These materials will generally constitute up to 20 percent by weight of the aqueous dispersion based on total solids. When the aqueous dispersions are employed for electrodeposition use, the aqueous dispersion is placed in contact with an electrically conductive anode and an electrically conductive cathode with the surface to be coated being the cathode. Following contact with the aqueous dispersion, an adherent film of the coating composition is deposited on the cathode when a sufficient voltage is impressed between the electrodes. The applied voltage can be varied and can be, for example, as low as one volt to as high as several thousand volts, but typically between 50 and 500 volts.Current density is usually between 1.0 ampere and 15 amperes per square foot and tends to decrease during electrodeposition indicating the formation of an insulating film. The aqueous dispersions of the polymeric products of the present invention can also be used in other conventional coating applications such as flow, dip, spray and roll coating applications. For electrodeposition and other conventional coating applications, the coating composition can be applied to a variety of electroconductive substrates especially metal such as steel, aluminum, copper, magnesium and the like, but also including metalized plastic and conductive carbon coated materials. For other conventional coating applications, the compositions can be applied to nonmetallic substrates such as glass, wood and plastic. After a coating has been applied by electrocoating or other conventional coating applications, it is cured usually by baking at elevated temperatures such as 90 to 260 C. for about 1 to 30 minutes. The cured coating will generally have a thickness of about 0.1 to 10, usually 0.5 to 5 mils, depending upon the solids content of the coating composition and the method of applying the coating. Illustrating the invention are the following examples, which, however, are not to be considered as limiting the invention to their details.All quantities are on a weight basis unless otherwise indicated. Example I The following example shows the preparation of a cat ionic polymer by reacting a polyglycidyl ether of bisphenol A with a mixture of diethylamine and diallylamine and then solubilizing with acid. 1,3 butadiene was polymerized in the presence of the cationic polymer. The resulting polymeric product was then used as a resinous vehicle for cat ionic electrodeposition. The cationic polymer was prepared from the following charge Parts by Weight Ingredients in grams Equivalents EPON 10011 583 1.0 diethylamine 52.8 0.75 dial lyl amine 24.2 0.25 lPolyglycidyl ether of bisphenol A having an epoxy equivalent of 583 commercially available from Shell Chemical Company. Into a suitable reaction vessel under a nitrogen atmosphere was charged the EPON 1001 and a mixture of the diethyl and diallyl amines.The reaction mixture was heated to reflux and reflux temperature maintained for about 2 1 2 hours. The reaction mixture was then cooled to room temperature. The epoxy amine adduct prepared as described above 180 grams, 150 grams solids was neutralized with 13.5 grams of glacial acetic acid and thinned with 150 grams of deionized water to form a cationic polymer. 1,3 butadiene was polymerized in the presence of the cationic polymer prepared as follows Ingredients Parts by Weight in grams cationic polymer 113.6 50 parts solids water 299.4 VAZO 641 6 tertiary dodecyl mercaptan 6 1, 3 butadiene 200 lAzobisisobutyronitrile commercially available from E. I. duPont de Nemours and Company. The ingredients were charged to a reaction vessel capable of maintaining pressure. The reaction vessel was sealed and heated to 100 C.and held at this temperature with agitation for about 16 hours to complete the polymerization. The reaction product had a solids content of about 40.8 percent. Ninety 90 grams of the reaction product prepared as described immediately above was diluted with 510 grams of deionized water to form an electrodeposition bath. The bath had a pH of 5.5 and a conductivity of 550 micromhos cm. Zinc phosphated steel panels were electrodeposited in the bath at 450 volts for 2 minutes at a bath temperature of 65 F. 18 C. . When the film was cured at 360eF. 182 C. for 45 minutes, a film having a thickness of about 0.47 mil and an F pencil hardness was obtained. Untreated steel panels were electrodeposited in the bath at 430 volts for 2 minutes at a bath temperature of 660F. 19 C. . When the films were cured at 360 F. 182 C. for 45 minutes, a film having a thickness of 0.5 mil and an F pencil hardness was obtained. Example II The following example is similar to Example I with the exception that a mixture of 1,3 butadiene and styrene were polymerized in the presence of a cationic polymer. Styrene and butadiene monomers were polymerized in the presence of the cationic polymer of Example I as follows Ingredients Parts by Weight in grams cationic polymer 113.6 50 parts by weight solids deionized water 299.4 VAZO 64 6 tertiary dodecyl mercaptan 6 1, 3 butadiene 170 styrene 30 The conditions for polymerization were as described in Example I. The reaction product had a solids content of about 43 percent.Ninety 90 parts by weight of the reaction product was thinned with 510 parts by weight of deionized water to form an electrodeposition bath. Zinc phosphated steel panels and untreated steel panels were electrodeposited in the bath at 400 volts for 2 minutes at a bath temperature of about 67 F. 19 C. to produce films having a thickness of 0.45 mil. Example III The following example shows preparation of a cat ionic polymer from reacting a polyglycidyl ether of bisphenol A with a mixture of diallyl and diethyl amines. A partially capped isocyanate curing agent was reacted into the polymer backbone via reaction of the uncapped isocyanate groups and the hydroxyl groups of the epoxy amine adduct. The polymer was then solubilized with acetic acid. 1,3 butadiene was polymerized in the presence of the cationic polymer. The cationic polymer was prepared as follows Parts by Weight Ingredients in grams Equivalents EPON 1001 485 1.0 partially capped polyisocyanatel 272 258.4 0.85 solids dial lylamine 23.6 0.244 diethylamine 53.4 0.231 partially capped isocyanate formed from half capping 2,4 toluene diisocyanate with 2 ethylhexanol in methyl butyl ketone solvent. The EPON 1001 was charged to a reaction vessel under a nitrogen atmosphere and heated to reflux and reflux temperature maintained for about 45 minutes. The reaction mixture was cooled to 1200C. and the partially capped isocyanate added followed by the addition of 16 drops of dibutyltin dilaurate catalyst. The reaction mixture exothermed and the temperature held at 115 C. for about 30 minutes followed by cooling to 53 C. A mixture of the diallyl and diethyl amines was added and the reaction mixture heated to 120 C. and held at this temperature for about 2 hours to complete the reaction. The epoxy amine adduct prepared as described above 500 grams, 392.5 grams solids was neutralized with 25.2 grams of acetic acid combined with 7.85 grams of dibutyltin dilaurate curing catalyst and thinned with 259.8 grams of deionized water. The cationic polymer contained about 53 percent resin solids. 1,3 butadiene was polymerized in the presence of the abovedescribed cationic polymer as follows Ingredients Parts by Weight rm grti75 cationic polymer prepared as described above 75.0 37.5 parts solids deionized water 324.7 VAZO 64 6.4 tertiary dodecyl mercaptan 6.4 1, 3 butadiene 212.5 The conditions for polymerization were as described in Example I.The reaction product contained 48 percent by weight resin solids. Example IV A mixture of styrene and but ad iene was polymerized in the presence of the cationic polymer described in Example III as follows Ingredients Parts by Weight in grams cationic polymer of Example III 75 37.5 parts solids deionized water 324.7 VAZO 6.4 tertiary dodecyl mercaptan 6.4 styrene 63.7 1, 3 butadiene 148.8 The conditions for polymerization were as described in Example I.The reaction product contained 40.7 percent resin solids. Example V The following example shows the preparation of a polyglycidyl ether of bisphenol A and 2,2 bis 3 allyl 4 hydroxyphenylzpropane. The polyglycidyl ether was then reacted with diethylamine and neutralized with acetic acid. A mixture of styrene and 1,3 butadiene was then polymerized in the presence of the cationic polymer. The resulting polymeric product was then combined with pigment paste to form a cationic electrodeposition bath and evaluated for cat ionic electrodeposition. The polyglycidyl ether of bisphenol A and 2,2 bis 3 allyl 4hydroxyphenyl propane was prepared as follows Ingredients Parts by Weight in grams EPON 8291 1252 2,2 bis 3 allyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propane 311 methyl isobutyl ketone 366 lPolyglycityl ether of bisphenol A commercially available from ShellChemical Company having an epoxy equivalent of 193 203. The EPON 829 and 2,2 bis 3 allyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propane were charged to a reaction vessel and heated to 170 C. over a period of about 1 2 hour under a nitrogen atmosphere. The reaction temperature was then raised to 190 C. and held for 1 2 hour followed by cooling to 62 C. and thinning the reaction mixture with methyl isobutyl ketone. The reaction mixture had a resin solids content of 79.1 percent, a Gardner Holdt viscosity of W and an epoxy equivalent weight of 422. The polyepoxide prepared as described above was reacted with diethylamine to form a polyepoxide amine adduct as follows Parts by Weight Ingredients in grams Equivalents polyepoxide prepared as described above 844 2.0 diethylamine 141 1.9 The epoxy containing polymer was charged to a reaction vessel and heated to 40 C. under a nitrogen atmosphere. The diethylamine was added over the period of about 30 minutes with the temperature slowly rising to 64 C. At the completion of the addition, the reaction mixture was heated to reflux at 1200C. and maintained at reflux for about 2 hours. The reaction mixture had a solids content of 82.8 percent and a Gardner Holdt viscosity of Z4 Z5. The epoxy amine adduct prepared as described above was then solubilized with acetic acid and thinned with deionized water as follows Ingredients Parts by Weight epoxy amine adduct 98 acetic acid 12 deionized water 98 The acid solubilized product contained 38 percent resin solids. A mixture of styrene and 1,3 butadiene was polymerized in the presence of the above described cationic polymer as follows Ingredients Parts by Weight cationic polymer prepared as described above 103.8 deionized water 368.7 VAZO 64 6.5 tertiary dodecyl mercaptan 6.5 styrene 48.6 1, 3 butadiene 113.4 The reaction conditions were as described in Example I. The reaction mixture had a solids content of 33.1 percent. The reaction product prepared as described above 650 grams was thinned with 2500 grams of deionized water and combined with 300 grams of pigment paste as described in U.S. Patent 4,115,226 col. 9, lines 26 65 and col. 10, lines 52 66 to form a cationic electrodeposition bath. Untreated steel panels were electrodeposited in the bath at 300 volts to produce a coating having a thickness of 0.9 mil. Zinc phosphated steel panels were electrodeposited at 200 volts to produce a coating having a thickness of 0.85 mil. The panels were cured at 400 F. 204 C. for one hour. The panels with the cured coatings thereon were scribed with an and exposed to a salt spray fog in accordance with the provisions of ASTM D 117. The panels were removed from the chamber, dried, the scribe mark taped with masking tape, the tape putted off at a.450 angle, and the creepage from the scribe mark measured. Creepage is the rusted darkened area where the coating has lifted from the panel surface.After two weeks exposure, the untreated steel panels showed 1 4 inch scribe creepage and the zinc phosphated steel panels 3 16 inch scribe creepage. Zinc phosphated and untreated steel panels were electrodeposited in the bath at 200 volts. The coated panels were then cured at 400 F. 204µC. for 40 minutes. Example VI The following example is similar to Example V with the exception that a mixture of styrene, 1,3 butadiene and hydroxypropyl methacrylate were polymerized in the presence of the cationic polymer. A polyglycidyl ether of bisphenol A and 2,2 bis 3 allyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propane was prepared as follows Parts by Weight Ingredients in grams EPON 829 1419 2,2 bis 3 allyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propane 133 methyl isobutyl ketone 162 The EPON 829 and 2,2 bis 3 allyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propane were charged to a reaction vessel under a nitrogen atmosphere and heated to 1700C. to initiate an exotherm. The reaction mixture was held at reflux for about 1 2 hour followed by cooling to 500C. and thinning with the methyl isobutyl ketone. The polyepoxide has a resin solids content of 88.5 percent, a Gardner Holdt viscosity of T and an epoxy equivalent of 277. The polyepoxide prepared as described above was reacted with diethylamine to form an epoxide amine adduct as follows Parts by Weight Ingredients in grams Equivalents polyepoxide 830 3.00 diethylamine 211 2.85 The polyepoxide was charged to a reaction vessel and heated to 40 C. under a nitrogen atmosphere. The diethylamine was added over a 1 2 hour period with the temperature rising to 1170C. The reaction mixture was heated to 1200C. and held for 2 hours at this temperature. The reaction mixture had a solids content of 91.4 percent and a Gardner Holdt viscosity of Z7 . The polyepoxide amine adduct prepared as described above 104.1 parts was neutralized with 14.4 grams glacial acetic acid and thinned with 104.1 grams of deionized water. The cationic polymer had a resin solids content of 43.5 percent. Hydroxypropyl methacrylate, styrene and 1,3 butadiene were polymerized in the presence of the above described cationic polymer as follows Ingredients Parts by Weight in grams cat ionic polymer prepared as described above 92.9 deionized water 420.0 VAZO 64 6.5 tertiary dodecyl mercaptan 6.5 hydroxypropyl methacrylate 16.2 styrene 32.4 1, 3 butadiene 113.4 The reaction conditions were as described in Example I. The reaction product had a solids content of 28.4 percent. Example VII The following example shows the preparation of a polyglycidyl ether of bisphenol A and 2,2 bis 3 allyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propane. The polyglycidyl ether was then reacted with N methylethanolamine, solubilized with acetic acid to form a cationic polymer. A mixture of hydroxypropyl methacrylate, styrene and 1,3 butadiene was polymerized in the presence of the cationic polymer. The resultant polymeric product was then combined with a pigment paste, a blocked isocyanate crosslinking agent to form a cationic electrodeposition bath, and evaluated for cationic electrodeposition. The polyglycidyl ether was prepared as follows Ingredients Parts by Weight in grams EPON 829 635 2,2 bis 3 allyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propane 250 methyl isobutyl ketone 205 The EPON 829 and 2,2 bis 3 allyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propane were charged to a reaction vessel and heated to 1700C. under a nitrogen atmosphere to initiate an exotherm. The reaction mixture was held for about 1 2 hour at reflux 190 C. , cooled to 85 C., followed by thinning with methyl isobutyl ketone. The reaction mixture had a solids content of about 80 percent, a Gardner Holdt viscosity of zl z2 and an epoxy equivalent of 603. The polyepoxide prepared as described above was then reacted with Nmethylethanolamine as follows Parts by Weight Ingredients in grams Equivalents polyepoxide prepared as described above 603 1.00 N methylethanolamine 71 0.95 The polyepoxide was charged to a reaction vessel and heated to 40 C. under a nitrogen atmosphere. The N methylethanolamine was added over a 1 2 hour period with the temperature increasing to 850C. The reaction mixture was heated to 1200C., held for 2 hours and cooled to 1029C., followed by the addition of 54 parts of dibutyltin dilaurate. Acetic acid 57 parts was then added to the reaction mixture followed by thinning with 700 parts of deionized water. The reaction mixture had a solids content of 41.2 percent. Hydroxypropyl methacrylate, styrene and 1,3 butadiene were polymerized in the presence of the cationic polymer prepared as described above. Ingredients Parts by Weight in grams cationic polymer 73.8 deionized water 429.0 VAZO 64 3.4 tertiary dodecyl mercaptan 3.4 hydroxypropyl methacrylate 17.2 styrene 34.4 1, 3 butadiene 120.5 The reaction conditions were as described in Example I. The resulting polymeric product had a resin solids content of 29 percent. A pigment paste was prepared as follows Ingredients Parts by Weight in grams iron oxide 149.6 lead silicate 17.6 strontium chromate 8.8 acid solubilized cat ionic polymer of Example VI 101 deionized water 273 The above ingredients were charged to a sand mill in the order listed and ground to a Hegman No. 7 grind. A capped isocyanate was prepared by reacting methyldiethanolamine with toluene diisocyanate 1 2 molar ratio to form an amino nitrogen containing isocyanate terminated prepolymer. This NCO terminated prepolymer was then capped with one mole of 2 ethylhexanol and one mole of an alcohol which was formed from reacting one mole of trimethylolpropane with 2 moles o f the monourethane of toluene diisocyanate reacted with 2 ethylhexanol.The capped isocyanate was solubilized and dispersed in water as follows Ingredients Parts by Weight in grams capped isocyanate 1635 acetic acid 26.9 deionized water 1338 The capped isocyanate was charged to a Cowles mixer followed by the addition of the acetic acid and thinning with deionized water. The blocked isocyanate was neutralized to the extent of 50 percent of the total theoretical neutralization and contained 40.64 percent resin solids. An electrodeposition bath was prepared by mixing the following in the order indicated Ingredients Parts by Weight in grams deionized water 1000 polymeric product prepared as described above 1310 acid solubilized capped isocyanate prepared as described above 400 pigment paste prepared as described above 230 deionized water 40 Zinc phosphated steel panels were electrodeposited in the bath at 340 volts. When the panels were baked at 400 F. 204 C. for 20 minutes, films having a thickness of 0.9 mil were obtained. When subjected to a salt spray fog as described above in connection with Example V, 3 16 inch scribe creepage was noted. Untreated steel panels were electrodeposited at 340 volts.When the panels were baked at 400 F. 204 C. for 20 minutes, films having a thickness of 1.0 mil were obtained. When exposed to a salt spray fog as described above, 3 8 inch scribe creepage was noted. When zinc phosphated and untreated steel panels were electrocoated at 340 volts and the films cured by baking at 3500F. 177 C. for 30 minutes, films having a thickness of 0.9 mil were obtained. When exposed to a salt spray fog as described above, the zinc phosphated steel panels evidenced 3 16 inch scribe creepage and the untreated steel panels exhibited 1 8 inch scribe creepage. Example VIII The following example shows the preparation of a polyglycidyl ether of bisphenol A and 2,2 bis 3 allyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propane. The polyglycidyl ether was reacted with N methylethanolamine, solubilized with acetic acid and then used as a dispersant for the polymerization of a mixture of hydroxypropyl methacrylate, butyl acrylate and butadiene monomers. The polyepoxide was prepared as follows Ingredients Parts by Weight in grams EPON 829 635 2,2 bis 3 allyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propane 250 methyl isobutyl ketone 205 The EPON 829 and 2,2 bis 3 allyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propane were charged to a reaction vessel and heated to 1700C. under a nitrogen atmosphere to initiate an exotherm. The temperature rose to 1900C. and the reaction mixture was held for 1 2 hour at 1900C. The reaction mixture was cooled to 1080C. followed by the addition of methyl isobutyl ketone. The reaction mixture contained 78.9 percent resin solids, had a viscosity ofZ2 Z3 and an epoxy equivalent of 621. The polyepoxide prepared as described above was then combined with 300 parts of the polyepoxide of Example VII. The blend contained 79.2 percent resin solids, had a viscosity of Z2 Z3 and an epoxy equivalent of 615. The blend of polyepoxides prepared as described above was then reacted with N methylethanolamine as follows Parts by Weight Ingredients in grams Equivalents blend of polyepoxides 1206 2.00 N methylethanolamine 142 1.90 The polyepoxide were heated to 40 C. under a nitrogen atmosphere followed by the addition of the N methylethanolamine which was added over a 1 2 hour period with the temperature rising to 850C. The reaction mixture was then heated to 1200C., held for 2 hours, cooled to 1020C. followed by the addition of 172.8 grams of dibutyltin dilaurate. The reaction product was neutralized with acetic acid by charging to a reaction vessel 1120 grams of deionized water and 46 grams of glacial acetic acid. The polyepoxide amine adduct prepared as described above 356 grams was added to the vessel with agitation followed by the addition of an additional 18.4 parts of acetic acid. The neutralized polymer had a resin solids content of 41.4 percent and was neutralized to the extent of 70 percent of the total theoretical neutralization.equivalent. A mixture of hydroxypropyl methacrylate, butyl acrylate and butadiene were polymerized in the presence of the cationic polymer as follows Ingredients Parts by Weight in grams aqueous dispersion of cationic polymer prepared as described above 61.4 deionized water 436.0 VAZO 64 5.3 tertiary dodecyl mercaptan 5.3 hydroxypropyl methacrylate 26.5 butyl acrylate 70.7 1, 3 butadiene 79.6 The reaction conditions were as generally described in Example I.The reaction product had a total solids content of 30.2 percent. Example. Ix A cat ionic polymeric product suitable for use in electrodeposition was prepared by polymerizing under free radical polymerization conditions a mixture of styrene and butadiene in aqueous medium in the presence of a quaternary ammonium base group containing polymer which is formed from quaternizing a polyglycidyl ether of a polyphenol with the lactate salt of dimethylaminoethyl methacrylate. Also included in the epoxy amine adduct backbone were capped isocyanate groups which were formed by reacting the 2 ethylhexyl monourethane of 2,4 toluene diisocyanate with the hydroxyl groups present in the polyglycidyl ether. The lactic acid salt of dimethylaminoethyl methacrylate was prepared from the following charge Parts by Weight Ingredients in grams Solids Equivalents dimethylaminoethyl methacrylate 1256.0 1256.0 M 0 lactic acid 960.0 720.0 8.0 deionized water 254.0 The dimethylaminoethyl methacrylate was charged to a reaction vessel under a nitrogen blanket. The lactic acid addition was initiated at a temperature of 25 C. and addition was continued over the period of about 20 minutes with the temperature of the reaction mixture reaching as high as 630C. upon which it was cooled with an ice bath to 560C. The reaction mixture was then thinned with the deionized water to form the lactic acid salt. The quaternary ammonium salt group containing polymer was prepared from the following charge Parts by Weight Ingredients in grams Solids Equivalents EPON 10011 686.4 686.4 1.3 epoxy 2.0 hydroxyl xylene 36.1 2 ethylhexyl monourethane of 2,4 toluene diisocyanate 320.0 304.0 1.0 NCO lactic acid salt of dimethyl aminoethyl methacrylate 385.9 308.7 1.25 amine deionized water 2905.0 lpolyglycidyl ether of polyphenol having an epoxy equivalent weight of 528 commercially available from Shell Chemical Company. The EPON 1001 and xylene were charged to a reaction vessel and heated to 1900C. to remove any water by using a Dean Stark trap. The reaction mixture was then cooled to 120 1250C. and the 2 ethylhexyl monourethane of 2,4 toluene diisocyanate added and the reaction mixture held at a temperature of about 120 1250C. for about 1 1 2 hours. The reaction mixture was then cooled to 90 950C. and the lactic acid salt of dimethylaminoethyl methacrylate and 96.0 grams of deionized water added. The reaction mixture was held for one hour at 85 950C. then cooled to room temperature and thinned with 2187.5 grams of deionized water to form a 35 percent resin solids aqueous dispersion.The reaction mixture was then thinned with an additional 621.5 parts by weight of deionized water to form a 30 percent resin solids aqueous dispersion. Styrene and butadiene were polymerized in the presence of a free radical catalyst in this aqueous dispersion in the following charge ratio Ingredients Parts by Weight in grams quaternary ammonium salt group containing polymer prepared as described above 33.7 deionized water 433.5 VAZO 641 7.7 tertiary dodecyl mercaptan 7.7 styrene 57.7 1, 3 butadiene 134.7 lAzobisisobutyronitrile commercially available from E. I. duPont deNemours and Company. The ingredients were cnargea to a reaction vessel capable ot maintaining pressure. The reaction vessel was sealed and heated to 1000C. and held at this temperature with agitation to complete the polymerization.The resulting polymeric product was a viscous2 smooth dispersion having a solids content of 30.6 percent. The polymeric product was thinned with additional deionized water to form about a 10 percent solids electrodeposition bath. Zinc phosphated steel panels were cathodically electrodeposited in this bath at 350 volts for 90 seconds at a bath temperature of 23 C. The films were cured at a temperature of 400 F. 2040C. for 20 minutes to yield very glossy films having a thickness of about 0.7 to 0.85 mil with some craters. Example X The following example shows the preparation of a cationic polymeric product suitable for use in electrodeposition and which is formed by polymerizing styrene and butadiene in the presence of a quaternary ammonium base group containing polymer which is formed from reacting EPON 1001 with diamylamine and the lactic acid salt of dimethylaminoethyl methacrylate. The lactic acid salt of dimethylaminoethyl methacrylate was prepared from the following charge and in accordance with the procedure generally described in Example IX Parts by Weight Ingredients in grams Solids Equivalents dimethylaminoethyl methacrylate 1180.0 1294.6 8.52 aqueous lactic acid 990.2 742.6 8.25 deionized water 257.0 A quaternary ammonium salt group containing polymer wasprepared from the following charge Parts by Weight Ingredients in grams Solids Equivalents EPON 1001 858.0 858.0 1.0 xylene 45.1 lactic acid salt of dimethyl aminoethyl methacrylate 300.5 240.8 0.60 deionized water 2101.6 diamylamine 89.3 89.3 0.35 The procedure for preparing the quaternary ammonium salt groupcontaining polymer was as generally described in Example IX, that is, theEPON 1001 and xylene were charged to a reaction vessel and heated to 160 C. and any water was removed with a Dean Stark trap. The reaction mixture was then cooled to 92eC. and the lactic acid salt of dimethylaminoethyl methacrylate and 98.5 grams of deionized water was added with the temperature being maintained at about 83 95 C. The reaction mixture was then cooled to about 85 C. followed by the addition of the diamylamine and then thinned with 2003.1 grams of deionized water to form a 35 percent resin solids aqueous dispersion. Styrene and butadiene were polymerized in the presence of a free radical catalyst in this aqueous dispersion in the following charge ratio Ingredients Parts by Weight in grams quaternary ammonium salt group containing resin prepared as described above 1551.7 deionized water 11418.3 VAZO 64 85.0 tertiary dodecyl mercaptan 85.0 styrene 1458 .0 0 1, 3 butadiene 3402.0 The reaction conditions were as generally described in Example IX.The polymeric product had a solids content of 28.5 percent. The polymer prepared as described above was thinned with deionized water to form a 20 percent solids electrodeposition bath. The dispersion had a pH of 5.6 and a conductivity of 750 micromhos and a General Motors throwpower of 11 1 4 inches measured at 500 volts for 120 seconds at a bath temperature of 80 F. 27 C. . The film build was about 0.6 to 0.8 mil.The aqueous dispersion had a rupture voltage of 550 volts. Zinc phosphated steel panels were electrodeposited in the bath at 350 volts for 90 seconds at room temperature and baked at 400 F. 2040C. for 20 minutes. The film was rough. Thirty 30 parts by weight of 2 ethylhexanol was then stirred into the bath and the zinc phosphated steel panels electrodeposited and baked under the same conditions. This time, smooth, glossy films resulted. Example XI A cat ionic polymeric product was prepared by polymerizing a mixture of styrene and but ad iene in the presence of a quaternary ammonium base group containing polymer which was formed by reacting a polyglycidyl ether of a polyphenol EPON 1001 with a polyester diol polycaprolactone diol having a molecular weight of about 540 and the lactic acid salt of dimethylaminoethyl methacrylate. A quaternary ammonium salt group containing polymer was prepared from the following charge Ingredients Parts by Weight in grams Solids EPON 8291 608.0 583.4 Bisphenol A 196.25 196.3 PCP 02002 159.5 159.5 benzyldimethylamine 2.0 2.0 75 by weight aqueous lactic acid 2.75 2.0 xylene 24.3 2 butoxy ethanol 55.1 lactic acid salt of dimethyl aminoethyl methacrylate of Example X 199.9 159.9 deionized water 4267.5 lPolyglycidyl ether of polyphenol having an epoxy equivalent weight of about 193 to 197 commercially available from Shell Chemical Company. 2Polycaprolactone diol having a molecular weight of about 540 commercially available from Union Carbide Corporation. The EPON 829 and Bisphenol A were charged to a reaction vessel and heated to 1550C. under a nitrogen blanket to initiate an exotherm. The exotherm was maintained for about one hour and the polycaprolactone diol was added. The benzyldimethylamine catalyst was added and the reaction maintained at a temperature of 130 140 C. until the reaction mixture had aGardner Holdt viscosity of W measured as a 50 percent solids solution in 2 ethoxyethanol. The benzyldimethylamine catalyst was then neutralized with the lactic acid and the reaction mixture thinned with the xylene and the 2 butoxyethanol.At a reaction temperature of about 940C., the lactic acid salt of the dimethylaminoethyl methacrylate and 81.5 grams of deionized water were added to the reaction mixture and the reaction mixture held at a temperature of about 90 C. for about 1 2 hour. The reaction mixture was then thinned with 4186.0 grams of the deionized water to form about a 20 percent solids dispersion. A mixture of styrene and butadiene 30 percent sytrene and 70 percent butadiene was polymerized in the presence of this quaternary ammonium salt polymer in the following charge ratio Ingredients Parts by Weight in grams quaternary ammonium salt group containing polymer 125.5 deionized water 356.2 VAZO 64 5.5 tertiary dodecyl mercaptan 5.5 styrene 54.7 1,3 butadiene 127.6 The reaction conditions were as generally described in Example IX. Two hundred and sixty five 265 parts of the polymer prepared as described above filtrate 79.5 parts solids was combined with 4 parts ofN butoxymethyl acrylamide and 576 parts deionized water to form a 10 percent solids electrodeposition bath. The addition of the N butoxymethyl acrylamide resulted in considerable coagulum formation which was filtered out. Zinc phosphated steel panels were electrodeposited in this bath at 350 volts for 90 seconds at room temperature and then baked at 4000F. 204eC. for 20 minutes. The films had some pattern but were also glossy and had a thickness of about 1 mil. When the panels were scribed and exposed to a salt spray fog in accordance with ASTN D 117 for two weeks, no scribe creepage was evidenced on the films. Example XII The following example shows the preparation of a cationic polymeric product which was formed from polymerizing 1,3 butadiene, styrene andN butoxymethyl acrylamide 70 25 5 weight ratio in the presence of a quaternary ammonium salt group containing polymer which is formed from reacting a polyglycidyl ether of a polyphenol with the lactic acid salt of dimethylaminoethyl methacrylate. A quaternary ammonium salt group containing polymer was prepared from reacting the following ingredients Parts by Weight Ingredients in grams Solids Equivalents EPON 10041 696.0 696.0 0.75 epoxy xylene 77.3 lactic acid salt of dimethyl aminoethyl methacrylate of Example IX 231.6 185.3 0.75 deionized water 2520.2 lPolyglycidyl ether of bisphenol A having an epoxy equivalent weight of 928 commercially available from Shell Chemical Company. The quaternary ammonium salt group containing polymer was prepared as generally described in Example IX. The resulting reaction mixture had a solids content of 25 percent and contained 0.150 milliequivalents of quaternary ammonium base group per gram of resin sample and 0.208 milliequivalents of total base per gram of sample. A mixture of styrene, butadiene and N butoxymethyl acrylamide was polymerized in the presence of a free radical catalyst with the aqueous dispersion prepared as described above in the following charge ratio Ingredients Parts by Weight in grams quaternary ammonium salt group containing resin 25 resin solids prepared as described above 81.0 deionized water 401.0 VAZO 64 5.5 tertiary dodecyl mercaptan 5.5 N butoxymethyl acrylamide 61.5 solids l 14.9 styrene 45.6 butadiene 127.6 161.5 percent solids solution of N butoxymethyl acrylamide in a 1 3 solvent mixture of xylene and n butanol. The polymerization was conducted as generally described in Example IX to yield a viscous, polymeric product having a solids content of 29.8 percent. The polymeric product was thinned with deionized water to form a 10 percent resin solids electrodeposition bath. Zinc phosphated steel panels were electrodeposited in this bath at 400 volts for 90 seconds at room temperature and the coatings baked at 400 F. 204 C. for 20 minutes to form films having a thickness of 0.25 0.30 mil on the zinc phosphated steel. When the panels were scribed and exposed to a salt spray fog in accordance with ASTM D ll7, no scribe creepage after two weeks salt spray exposure was evidenced.