# Antitumor compositions.

## Abstract
Organic acid addition salts of the antitumor agent 4 9 acridinylamino methanesulfon m anisidide m AMSA are made substantially more water soluble by addition of nicotin amide. Solid dosage form compositions provided by the present invention permit intravenous administration of m AMSA without the necessity of employing an undesirable non aqueous vehicle such as dimethylacetamide.

## Claims
CLAIMSWe claim 1. A pharmaceutical composition comprising m AMSA in admixture with a pharmaceutically acceptable organic acid and nicotinamide, the nicotinamide being present in an amount sufficient to provide on reconstitution with water a nicotinamide concentration of about 100 400 milligrams per milliliter of solution. 2. A composition as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the organic acid and m AMSA are in a molar ratio of from about 1 1 to 2 1. 3. A composition as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2 wherein the organic acid is tartaric acid, lactic acid, levulinic acid, citric acid, gluconic acid, pyroglutamic acid or glucoheptonic acid. 4. A composition as claimed in Claim 3 wherein the organic acid is lactic acid. 5. A composition as claimed in Claim 3 wherein the organic acid is gluconic acid. 6. A pharmaceutical composition comprising an organic acid addition salt of m AMSA in admixture with nicotinamide, the nicotinamide being present in an amount sufficient to provide on reconstitution with water a nicotinamide concentration of about 100 400 milligrams per milliliter of solution. 7. A composition as claimed in Claim 6 wherein the m AMSA salt is m AMSA lactate, m AMSA gluconate, m AMSA citrate, m AMSA levulinate, m AMSA tartrate, m AMSA pyroglutamate or m AMSA glucoheptonate. 8. A composition as claimed in Claim 6 wherein the m AMSA salt is m AMSA lactate. 9. A composition as claimed in Claim 8 wherein the m AMSA lactate salt is m AMSA L monolactate hemiacetonate, 10. A composition as claimed in Claim 8 wherein the m AMSA lactate salt is m AMSA D monolactate hemiacetonate. 11. A composition as claimed in Claim 8 wherein the m AMSA lactate is m AMSA DL monolactate acetonate having about 0.60.7 moles of acetone per mole of lactate. 12. A composition as claimed in Claim 6 wherein the m AMSA salt is m XSA gluconate. 13. A pharmaceutical composition comprising an organic acid addition salt of m AMSA in admixture with nicotinamide and a pharmaceutically acceptable organic acid, the nicotinamide being present in an amount sufficient to provide on recon stitution with water a nicotinamide concentration of about 100 400 milligrams per milliliter of solution. 14. A composition as claimed in Claim 13 wherein the m AMSA salt and organic acid are, in a molar ratio of about 1 1. 15. A composition as claimed in Claim 13 or Claim 14 wherein the m AMSA salt is m AMSA lactate, m AMSA gluconate, m AMSA citrate, m AMSA levulinate, m AMSA tartrate, m AMSA pyroglutamate or m AMSA glucoheptonate and the organic acid is tartaric acid, lactic acid, levulinic acid, citric acid, gluconic acid pyroglutamic acid or glucoheptonic acid. 16. A composition as claimed in Claim 13 or Claim 14 wherein the m AMSA salt is m AMSA lactate and the organic acid is lactic acid. 17. A composition as claimed in Claim 16 wherein the m AMSA lactate is m AMSA L monolactate hemiacetonate. 18. A composition as claimed in Claim 16 wherein the m AMSA lactate is m AMSA DL monolactate acetonate having about 0.60.7 moles of acetone per mole of lactate. 19. A composition as claimed in Claim 16 wherein the m AMSA lactate is m AMSA D monolactate hemiacetonate. 20. A composition as claimed in Claim 13 or Claim 14 wherein the m AMSA salt is m AMSA gluconate and the organic acid is gluconic acid. 21. A pharmaceutical composition in unit dosage form which comprises about 20 to 100 milligrams of m AMSA in admixture with about 1 to 2 molar equivalents of lactic acid and 100 to 400 milligrams of nicotinamide. 22. A composition according to Claim 21 wherein the lactic acid is L lactic acid. 23. A composition according to Claim 21 wherein the lactic acid is DL lactic acid. 24. A composition according to Claim 21 wherein the lactic acid is D lactic acid. 25. A composition according to Claim 21 comprising about 20 to 100 milligrams m AMSA, 100 400 milligrams of nicotinamide and 13 26 milligrams of lactic acid. 26. A composition according to Claim 21 comprising about 50 milligrams m AMSA, 300 400 milligrams nicotinamide and 26 milligrams lactic acid. 27. A pharmaceutical composition in unit dosage form which comprises about 10 to 30 milligrams m ANSSA in admixture with about 1 to 2 molar equivalents of citric acid and 100 to 400 milligrams of nicotinamide. 28. A composition according to Claim 27 comprising about 20 to 30 milligrams m AMSA, 1 to 2 molar equivalents of citric acid and 300 to 400 milligrams of nicotinamide. 29. A composition according to Claim 27 comprising about 20 milligrams m AMSA, 10 mg citric acid and 300 to 400 milligrams of nicotinamide. 30. A pharmaceutical composition in unit dosage form which comprises about 20 to 100 milligrams of m AMSA in admixture with about 1 to 2 molar equivalents of gluconic acid or gluconolactone and 100 to 400 milligrams of nicotinamide. 31. A composition according to Claim 30 comprising about 75 milligrams m AM.SA, 37 74 milligrams of gluconic acid or gluconolactone and 300 400 milligrams of nicotinamide. 32. A pharmaceutical composition in unit dosage form which comprises about 100 to 400 milligrams of nicotinamide in admixture with an amount of an organic acid addition salt of m AMSA sufficient to provide upon water reconstitution about 20 to 100 milligrams of m AMSA. 33. A composition according to Claim 32 wherein the m AMSA salt is m AMSA lactate, m AMSA citrate, m AMSA gluconate, m A tartrate, m AMSA levulinate, m AMSA pyroglutamate of m AMSA glucoheptonate. 34. A composition according to Claim 32 wherein the m AMSA salt is m AMSA lactate. 35. A composition according to Claim 34 wherein the m AMSA lactate salt is m AMSA L monolactate hemiacetonate. 36. A composition according to Claim 34 wherein the m AMSA lactate salt is m AMSA DL monolactate acetonate having about O.6 0.7 moles of acetone per mole of lactate. 37. A composition according to Claim 34 wherein the m AMSA lactate salt is m AMSA D monolactate hemiacetonate, 38. A composition according to Claim 32 wherein the m AMSA salt is m AMSA gluconate. 39. A pharmaceutical composition in unit dosage form com prising an amount of an organic acid addition salt of m A1SA sufficient to provide upon water reconstitution about 20 to 100 milligrams of m AMSA in admixture with about one molar equivalent of a pharmaceutically acceptable organic acid and 100 to 400 milligrams of nicotinamide. 40. A composition according to Claim 39 wherein the m AMSA salt is m AMSA lactate and the organic acid is lactic acid. 41. A composition according to Claim 40 wherein the m AMSA lactate is m AMSA L monolactate hemiacetonate. 42. A composition according to Claim 40 wherein the m AMSA lactate is m AMSA DL monolactate acetonate having about 0.60.7 moles of acetone per mole of lactate. 43. A composition according to Claim 40 wherein the m AMSA lactate is m AMSA D monolactate hemiacetonate. 44. A composition according to Claim 40 comprising an amount of m AMSA lactate sufficient to provide upon water,reconstitution about 50 milligrams of m AMSA, one molar equivalent of lactic acid and 300 to 400 milligrams of nicotinamide. 45. A composition according to Claim 39 wherein the m AMSA salt is m AMSA gluconate and the organic acid is gluconic acid or gluconolactone. 46. A process for preparing a stable, solid, water soluble composition for reconstitution with water or aqueous vehicle as a stable solution of m AMSA which comprises mixing m AMSA with a pharmaceutically acceptable organic acid and nicotinamide, the organic acid to m AMSA molar ratio being from about 1 1 to about 2 1 and the nicotinamide being present in an amount sufficient to provide on reconstitution a nicotinamide concentration of about 100 to 400 milligrams per milliliter of solution. 47. The process according to Claim 46 wherein the organic acid is D lactic acid, L lactic acid, a mixture of 50 D and 50 L lactic acid or gluconolactone. 48. A process for preparing a stable, solid, water soluble composition for reconstitution with water or aqueous vehicle as a stable solution of m AMSA which comprises the steps of 1 forming an aqueous solution of m AtEA, a pharmaceutically acceptable organic acid and nicotinamide, the organic acid to m AMSA molar ratio being from about 1 1 to about 2 1 and the nicotinamide being present in a concentration of about 100 to 400 milligrams per milliliter of solution and 2 lyophilizing the so produced aqueous solution. 49. The process according to Claim 48 wherein the aqueous solution of step 1 is filtered prior to lyophilization. 50. The process according to Claim 48 or Claim 49 wherein the organic acid is lactic acid, gluconic acid or gluconolactone. 51. A process for preparing a stable, solid, water soluble composition for reconstitution with water or aqueous vehicle as a stable solution of m XlSA which comprises mixing an organic acid addition salt of m AMSA with nicotinamide, the nicotinamide being present in an amount sufficient to provide on reconstitution a nicotinamide concentration of about 100 to 400 milligrams per milliliter of solution. 52. The process according to Claim 51 wherein the m AMSA salt is m AMSA lactate. 53. The process according to Claim 51 wherein the m AMSA lactate is m AMSA L monolactate hemiacetonate. 54. The process according to Claim 52 wherein the m AMSA lactate is m AMSA D monolactate hemiacetonate, 55. The process according to Claim 52 wherein the m AMSA lactate is m AMSA DL monolactate acetonate having about 0.6 to 0.7 moles of acetone per mole of lactate. 56. The process according to Claim 51 wherein the m AMSA salt is m AMSA gluconate. 57. A process for preparing a stable, solid, water soluble composition for reconstitution with water or aqueous vehicle as a stable solution of m AMSA which comprises the steps of 1 forming an aqueous solution of an organic acid addition salt of m AMSA and nicotinamide, the nicotinamide being present in a concentration of about 100 400 milligrams per milliliter of solution and 2 lyophilizing the so produced solution. 58. The process according to Claim 57 wherein the aqueous solution of step 1 is filtered prior to lyophilization. 59. The process according to Claim 57 or Claim 58 wherein the m AMSA salt is m AMSA lactate. 60. The process according to Claim 59 wherein the m A2eSA lactate is m AMSA L monolactate hemiacetonate. 61. The process according to Claim 59 wherein the m AMSA lactate is m AMSA D monolactate hemiacetonate. 62. The process according to Claim 59 wherein the m AMSA lactate is m AMSA DL monolactate acetonate having about 0.6 to 0.7 moles of acetone per mole of lactate. 63. The process according to Claim 57 or Claim 58 wherein the m AMSA salt is m AMSA gluconate. 64. A process for preparing a stable, solid, water soluble composition for reconstitution with water or aqueous vehicle as a stable solution of m AMSA which comprises mixing an organic acid addition salt of m AMSA with nicotinamide and a pharmaceutically acceptable organic acid, the nicotinamide being present in an amount sufficient to provide on reconstitution with water a nicotinamide concentration of about 100 400 milligrams per milliliter of solution. 65. The process according to Claim 64 wherein the m AMSA salt and organic acid are used in a 1 1 molar ratio. 66. The process according to Claim 64 or Claim 65 wherein the m AMSA salt is m AMSA lactate and the organic acid isD lactic acid, L lactic acid or a mixture of 50 D and 50 L lactic acid. 67. The process according to Claim 66 wherein the m AMSA lactate is m AMSA L monolactate hemiacetonate. 68. The process according to Claim 66 wherein the m AMSA lactate is m AMSA D monolactate hemiacetonate, 69. The process according to Claim 66 wherein the m AMSA lactate is m AMSA DL monolactate acetonate having about 0.6 to 0.7 moles of acetone per mole of lactate. 70. The process according to Claim64 or Claim 65 wherein the m ANsSA salt is m AMSA gluconate and the organic acid is gluconolactone. 71. A process for preparing a stable, solid, water soluble composition for reconstitution with water or aqueous vehicle as a stable solution of m AMSA which comprises the steps of 1 forming an aqueous solution of an organic acid addition salt of m AMSA with nicotinamide and a pharmaceutically acceptable organic acid, the nicotinamide being present in a concentration of about 100 400 milligrams per milliliter and 2 lyophilizing the so produced aqueous solution. 72. The process according to Claim 71 wherein the m AMSA salt and organic acid are used in a molar ratio of about 1 1. 73. The process according to Claim 71 or Claim 72 wherein the aqueous solution of step 1 is filtered prior to lyophilization. 74. The process according to Claim 71 and Claim 72 wherein the m AMSA salt is m AMSA lactate and the organic acid is lactic acid. 75. The process according to Claim 74 wherein the m AMSA lactate is m AMSA L monolactate hemiacetonate. 76. The process according to Claim 74 wherein the m AtlSA lactate is m AMSA D monolactate hemiacetonate. 77. The process according to Claim 74 wherein the m AMSA lactate is m AMSA DL monolactate acetonate having about 0.6 to 0.7 moles of acetone per mole of lactate. 78. The process according to Claim 71 or Claim 72 wherein the m AMSA salt is m AMSA gluconate and the organic acid is gluconic acid or gluconolactone.

## Description
monohydrochloirde and monomethanesulfonate salts also proved insufficiently water soluble for clinical use. The formulation presently in clinical use consists of two sterile liquids combined just prior to use. A solution of m AMSA in anhydrousN,N dimethylacetamide is contained in an ampule. A separate vial contains an aqueous L lactic acid solution for use as a diluent. When mixed the resulting m AMSA solution is administered by i.v. infusion. While the present clinical formulation provides an intravenous dosage form, it suffers from several disadvantages.In addition to the obvious difficulties in preparing and ad ministering the dosage form, it contains dimethylacetamide as a vehicle. Dimethylacetamide has been reported to show various toxic symptoms in animals and may thus prove to be unacceptable or undesirable as a pharmaceutical vehicle. It is accordingly an object of the present invention to provide water soluble, stable, therapeutically acceptable forms of m AMSA which can be administered intravenously as well as by other routes and which do not contain or require dimethylacetamide as a pharmaceutical vehicle. This object as well as other features and advantages of the invention will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art from the disclosure set forth below. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The present invention provides stable, solid, watersoluble compositions for reconstitution with water or an aqueous vehicle as stable, aqueous solutions of m AMSA. More particularly, there are provided 1 mixtures of m AMSA and a pharmaceutically acceptable organic acid with a solubilizing amount of nicotinamide, 2 mixtures of an organic acid addition salt of m AMSA with a solubilizing amount of nicotinamide and 3 mixtures of an organic acid addition salt of m AMSA and a pharmaceutically acceptable organic acid with a solubilizing amount of nicotinamide. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 1. Field of the Invention The novel compositions of the present invention possess the advantageous anti tumour properties of the known free base compound and in addition have unexpectedly high water solubility, thus allowing preparation of useful clinical dosage forms for intravenous administration.2. Description of the Prior Art The acridine derivative m AMSA 4 9 acridinylamino methanesulfon m anisidide has been reported by Cain, et al. in Europ. J. Cancer 10 539 549 1974 to possess significant antitumor activity in animal tumor systems. Since then, this compound has been subjected to clinical evaluation with very promising initial results. When an anti tumour agent such as m AMSA is employed for human clinical use, it is recognized that solubility of the agent is often the controlling factor in determining route of administration and dosage forms. For instance, a water soluble substance can be generally administered intravenously whereas a water insoluble material is limited to other forms of parenteral administration such as intramuscular and subcutaneous. A therapeutic agent having water solubility also facilitates preparation of oral and non intravenous parenteral dosage forms for human administration. Thus, it is decidedly advantageous if a therapeutic agent is water soluble, particularly when one considers that the most direct route for achieving therapeutic blool levels of a drug within the human body is by intravenous administration. The free base form of m AMSA has very limited solubility in water and thus cannot be used as a dosage form for intravenous administration. Attempts have been made to prepare acid addition salts to overcome this solubility problem, but the reported Also provided are processes for preparing the above mentioned compositions. DETAILED DESCRIPTION Many conventional pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts of m AMSA are only slightly soluble in water and are thus unsuited for preparation of aqueous intravenous solutions. This is evident from literature references to the hydrochloride and methanesulfonate salts as well as from solubility tests carried out by the present inventors on many common organic acid addition salts. In investigating the solubility properties of m AMSA organic acid addition salts, we have unexpectedly found that the water solubility of such salts can be markedly increased by combining the salts or their individual components, i.e. m AMSA and an organic acid with nicotinamide.While the degree of solubility enhancement depends on the particular salt of m AMSA employed, in general the solubility of all organic acid addition salts of m AMSA is significantly improved by addition of nicotinamide. The preferred organic acid addition salts of m AMSA for use in the present invention include the lactate, gluconate, citrate, levulinate, tartrate, pyroglutamate and glucoheptonate salts. Most preferred are the lactate and gluconate m AMSA salts as these when combined with a solubilizing amount of nicotinamide may be reconstituted to form high concentration i,e. 75 mg ml of m AMSA activity aqueous solutions suitable for bolus in jections. The compositions provided by the present invention may be employed in the form of either a dry fill mixture of dry components or lyophilized product. Both types of solid dosage form may be conveniently and rapidly reconstituted with water or a sterile aqueous vehicle to provide a true solution of m AMSA having excellent stability characteristics. As indicated above, the compositions of the present invention may be considered as belonging to three groups. All three groups, however, involve the same inventive concept, i.e.that nicotinamide significantly enhances the aqueous solubility of m AMSA organic acid addition salts. The first type of composition comprises m AMSA base in admixture with a pharmaceutically acceptable organic acid and nicotinamide. While the proportions of m AMSA and organic acid are not critical, best results have been obtained when the mob A base and organic acid are in a molar ratio of about 1 to 2 moles of acid per mole of m AMSA. Sufficient nicotinamide is used so that when the dosage form is reconstituted, a nicotinamide concentration of about 100 to 400, preferably 300 to 400, milligrams per milliliter of aqueous solution will be achieved. As noted above any pharmaceutically acceptable organic acid may be employed in the present compositions.Examples of suitable acids include citric, lactic, gluconic, levulinic, tartaric, pyroglutamic and glucoheptonic. Most preferred organic acids are lactic and gluconic acids. In addition to use of the acids per se, precursors of an organic acid which convert to the desired organic acid in aqueous solution may also be used. Thus, for example, it is convenient to use gluconolactone as a source of gluconic acid since it, unlike gluconic acid, is commercially available in a well defined crystalline form and rapidly hydrolyzes in water to form gluconic acid. The term organic acid , therefore, as used herein and in the claims includes such precursors within its scope. Where the organic acids exist in isomeric forms such as resolved and racemic forms, all such forms may be employed in the present compositions. For preparing unit dosage forms, the m AMSA is used in any therapeutically useful amount convenient for pharmaceutical administration. A preferred unit dosage form contains about 20 to 100 milligrams of m AMSA base in admixture with about 1 to 2 molar equivalents of the pharmaceutically acceptable organic acid and 100 to 400, preferably 300 400, milligrams of nicotinamide. Examples of specific preferred unit dosage forms include the following 1 20 100 mg m AMSA 1 2 molar equivalents L lactic acid 100 400 mg nicotinamide 2 20 100 mg m AMSA 1 2 molar equivalents D lactic acid 100 400 mg nicotinamide 3 20 100 mg m AMSA 1 2 molar equivalents DL lactic acid or mixture cf 50 D lactic acid and 50 L lactic acid 100 400 mg nicotinamide 4 50 mg m AMSA 26 mg lactic acid 300 400 mg nicotinamide 5 10 30 mg m AMSA 1 2 molar equivalents citric acid 100 400 mg nicotinamide 6 20 30 mg m AMSA 1 2 molar equivalents citric acid 300 400 mg nicotinamide 7 20 mg m AMSA 10 mg citric acid 300 400 mg nicotinamide 8 200 100 mg m AMSA 1 2 molar equivalents gluconic acid 100 400 mg nicotinamide and 9 75 mg m AMSA 76 mg gluconic acid 300 400 mg nicotinamide. The second type of composition provided by the present invention comprises an organic acid addition salt of m AMSA in admixture with nicotinamide, the nicotinamide being present in an amount sufficient to provide on reconstitution with water or aqueous vehicle a nicotinamide concentration of about 100 400 milligrams, preferably 300 400 milligrams, per milliliter of solution. Solid compositions may be made of any pharmaceutically acceptable organic acid addition salt of m AsslSA since all such salts appear to be significantly more water soluble when combined with nicotinamide. Examples of particularly suitable m AMSA salts include the lactate, gluconate, citrate, levulinate, tartrate, pyroglutamate and glucoheptonate salts. Especially preferred are the monolactate and monogluconate salts since compositions of these salts may be reconstituted to form stable, high concentration aqueous solutions suitable for bolus i.v.administration. The m AMSA organic acid addition salts may be prepared by methods known in the art. Thus, for example, a mixture of m AMSA base and a pharmaceutically acceptable organic acid may be dissolved in an inert organic solvent, preferably in a molar ratio of about 1 to 2 moles of acid per mole of m AMSA base, and the desired salt recovered from solution as by crystallization or precipitation with an antisolvent. The particular inert organic solvent used to solubilize the m xnlSA base and organic acid is not critical and examples of suitable solvents will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art. Preferred solvents are polar alcohols and ketones such as methanol, ethanol, n propanol, isopropanol, acetone, nbutanol, 2 jutanone, n pentanol, n hexanol, diethylene glycol, methyl isobutyl ketone, 3 pentanone, etc. The temperature at which solution is effected is not critical and may range from just above the freezing point to just below the boiling point of the solvent system. Most advantageously, temperatures of around room temperature or above are used. After forming a solution of m AMEA, it is preferred to carry out a filtration step before recovering the solid salt formed by the addition of the appropriate acid.Standard salt recovery techniques such as crystallization may then be used to obtain the m AMSA salt. Seed crystals of the desired salt may be added to the reaction mixture to induce and or enhance crystallization. After recovery, the salt is washed with an inert organic solvent in which it is substantially insoluble and dried by conventional procedures.If desired the salt may be recrystallized from a suitable inert organic solvent to obtain product in a highly purified form. Preparation of the crystalline monogluconate salt of m SA is disclosed in copending application Serial No.114,809 filed January 24, 1980, which application is hereby incorporated by reference, and in the section below entitled Preparation of Starting Materials . Copending applicationSerial No. 150,401 filed May 23, 1980 , which application is hereby incorporated by reference, discloses preparation of three crystalline lactate salts which are especially suited for pharmaceutical dosage forms.Preparation of these salts, the crystalline L monolactate hemiacetonate, the crystalline DX monólactate hemiacetonate and the crystalline DL monolactate acetone solvate containing about 0,6 to 0.7 moles of acetone per mole of lactate salt, is also described below under Preparation of Starting Naterials . The gluconate salt and the three lactate acetone solvates represent the most preferred m AMSA salts for use in the present compositions. For preparation of unit dosage forms, the m AMSA salt is used in an amount sufficient to give a therapeutically useful and pharmaceutically convenient amount of m AMSA on aqueous reconstitution. A preferred unit dosage form contains 100 400 milligrams, preferably 300 400, of nicotinamide and an amount of m AMSA salt sufficient to provide from about 20 to 100 milligrams of m AMSA upon aqueous reconstitution. The precise weight of salt will vary with the particular salt in question and the potency of that salt. As an illustration, if onewere using 100 pure m AMSA monogluconate as the salt, a range of from about 30 to 150 milligrams of gluconate salt would provide 20 100 milligrams of m AMSA on reconstitution since the m AMSA content of the gluconate salt is 66.73 . Calculation of a proper weight range of other salts is carried out in a similar manner. The third type of composition provided by the present invention comprises an organic acid addition salt of m AMSA in admixture with nicotinamide and a pharmaceutically acceptable organic acid, the nicotinamide being present in an amount sufficient to provide on reconstitution with water or aqueous vehicle a nicotinamide concentration of about 100 400, preferably 300 400, milligrams per milliliter of solution. The maximum solubility appears to be achieved when the m AMSA salt and organic acid are used in about a 1 1 molar ratio. Except for the addition of organic acid, this last type of composition is identical to the m AMSA salt nicotinamide type described above. Use of the additional amount of organic acid appears to maximize the amount of m AMSA which can be put into aqueous solution. The same m AMSA acid addition salts and organic acids may be used as described above for the other two types of m AMSA compositions. The preferred salts are the gluconate and lactate particularly the acetone solvates described above salts and the preferred acids are gluconic acid and lactic acid. While the pharmaceutically acceptable organic acid which is added to the m AMSA salt does not have to be the same as the acid used to form the salt, it is preferred that a common organic acid be used. For preparing unit dosage forms, the m AMSA salt in the third type of composition is used in an amount sufficient to give a therapeutically useful and pharmaceutically convenient amount of m AMSA on aqueous reconstitution. A preferred unit dosage form contains an amount of m AMSA salt sufficient to provide from about 20 to 100 milligrams of m AMSA upon aqueous reconstitution, about one molar equivalent or organic acid and 100 400, preferably 300 400, milligrams of nicotinamide. The solid compositions all three types provided according to the present invention are reconstituted with sterile water or sterile aqueous vehicle. The preferred unit dosage forms described above may, for example, be reconstituted with one milliliter of sterile water or sterile aqueous vehicle to form relatively concentrated m AMSA solutions or such solutions may be diluted to form more dilute e.g. 5 mg ml m AMSA activity solutions. We have found that m AhSSA is incompatible in aqueous solution with chloride, sulfate, phosphate and carbonate ions insoluble precipitates form . Reconstition, therefore, should be effected with vehicles substantially free of the above mentioned ions, Pharmaceutically acceptable excipients such as mannitol may be optionally employed in the compositions of the present invention to decrease reconstitution time. Preparation of the solid compositions of the present invention as a dry fill mixture may be accomplished by simply mixing the desired components. Thus, the m AMSA organic acid nicotinamide composition is prepared by mixing m AMSA base with a pharmaceutically acceptable organic acid and nicotinamide, the organic acid to m AMSA molar ratio being preferably from about 1 1 to about 2 1 and the nicotinamide being present in an amount sufficient to provide on aqueous reconstitution a nicotinamide concentration of about 100 to 400 milligrams per milliliter of solution. The m AMSA salt nicotinamide composition is prepared by mixing an organic acid addition salt of m AMSA with nicotinamide, the nicotinamide being present in an amount sufficient to provide on aqueous reconstitution a nicotinamide concentration of about 100 to 400 milligrams per milliliter of solution.Similarly, the m AMSA salt organic acid nicotinamide composition is prepared by mixing an organic acid addition of m AllSA with nicotinamide and a pharmaceutically acceptable organic acid, the m AMSA salt and organic acid being preferably in a 1 1 molar ratio and the nicotinamide being present in an amount sufficient to provide on aqueous reconstitution a nicotinamide concentration of about 100 400 milligrams per milliliter of solution. It is of course preferred in preparing dry fill mixtures to use finely divided, e.g. 60 mesh, solid components so as to minimize reconstitution time, For preparation of dry fill compositions containing gluconic acid as a component, it is preferred to use gluconolactone as a source of gluconic acid in place of gluconic acid per se.Similarly, a mixture of 50 D lactic acid and 50 L lactic acid is used in place of DL lactic acid which is a liquid at room temperature. Preparation of the compositions of the present invention as a lyophilized mixture may be accomplished by forming a solution of the desired components in water and then subjecting such solution, after an optional filtration step to remove solid impurities, to a standard lyophilization process. Lyophilization may be carried out in conventional laboratory or industrial lyophilizers according to methods well known to those skilled in the art. The reactants and molar ratios used are the same as in the corresponding dry fill compositions except that liquid organic acids or aqueous solutions of organic acids as well as solid acids may be employed. The dry fill and lyophilized compositions provided by the present invention exhibit substantially the same antitumor properties as the prior art m AMSA forms now being used clinically. Because of their high water solubility, however, they may be used to prepare single vial clinical dosage forms for intravenous administration which do not contain an undesirable non aqueous pharmaceutical vehicle such as dimethylacetamide.Furthermore, the present dosage forms ailow administration of bolus i.v. injections of m AMSA which have heretofore not been possible. The solid compositions of the present invention may be used to prepare oral or non intravenous parenteral dosage forms as well as the preferred intravenous injectable product.The compositions have excellent stability, both in solid form and in aqueous solution. In the treatment of mammalian tumors, the compositions may be administered orally or parenterally, but preferably parenterally, in dosages adjusted for amount of m AMSA activity and according to regimens previously disclosed in the literature. The following examples are given in illustration of, but not in limitation of, the present invention. Preparation of Starting Materials Preparation 1 Sterile Crystallization of Citric Acid 1. Dissolve 20 grams of anhydrous citric acid in 100 ml of acetone. 2. Using aseptic technique, pass the citric acid acetone solution through a sterile Millipore Fluoropore or Mitex filter. Collect and store the filtrate in a sterile stainless steel container. Wash the filter by passing through it 20 ml of acetone. Add the wash to the fil trate. The combined wash and filtrate is Solution A. 3. Using aseptic technique, pass 2 liters of methylene chloride through a sterile Millipore Fluoropore, Celo tate or Mitex filter. Collect and store the filtrate in a glass or stainless steel container. This is Filtrate B. 4. Place 1.5 liters of the Millipore filtered methylene chloride Filtrate B in a glass or stainless steel container. 5. With rapid stirring add the entire Solution A see Step 2 over a 5 minute period. Crystals form. Stir an additional 5 minutes. Remove the crystals by sterile, lint free filtration procedure. 7. Wash the crystals with 150 ml of sterile methylene chloride. Avoid contact of the filter cake with excess moist air. 8. Vacuum dry the crystals under sterile conditions at 60 700C for 24 hours. Expected Yield 19.0 grams. 9. In a sterile area at a relative humidity of 50 or below, sterilely screen or mill the citric acid to 60 mesh.10. Store the 60 mesh citric acid in a sterile glass container. Preparation 2Sterile Crystallization of Nicotinamide 1. Using aseptic technique, pass 1.5 L of Skellysolve B through a sterile 0.22 micron Millipore GS filter. Collect and store the filtrate in an enclosed, sterile, stainless steel container. CAUTION Skellysolve B is combustible.2. Dissolve 10 grams of nicotinamide in 130 ml of absolute ethanol. A solution or near solution is obtained in 10 minutes of stirring.3. Using aseptic technique, pass the solution through a sterile Fluoropore FG, 0.2 micron filter. Collect and store the filtrate in a sterile glass or stainless steel container. Cap with a sterile cover.4. Place one liter of the 0.22 micron Millipore filtered Skellysolve B into a stainless steel container.5. With rapid stirring using a sterile air stirrer, add the Fluoropore FG, 0.2 micron filtered nicotinamide ethanol solution over a 2 5 minute interval. Crystals form. Stir an additional 5 minutes. CAUTION Mixture is combustible.6. Remove the crystals by sterile filtration technique. Wash the crystals with 25 ml of the 0.22 micron Millipore filtered Skellysolve B.7, Vacuum dry the the crystals in a sterile vacuum oven at 50 600C for 16 24 hours.8. Shut off the heat and release the vacuum, Skellysolve B is the tradename for a petroleum ether fraction of b.p. 60 68PC consisting essentially of n hexane and sold by Skelly Oil Co. 9. Pass the nicotinamide through a sterile 60 mesh stainless steel screen. Yield of screened nicotinamide 8 grams.10. Place the screened nicotinamide in a sterile amber bottle. Cover with a sterile screw cap. Preparation 3 Sterile Crystallization of m AMSA Base 1. Dissolve 1.25 grams of m AMSA base in 10 ml of dimethyl acetamide. 2. Using aseptic technique, pass the solution through a suitable, sterile Millipore Fluoropore or Mitex filter. Collect and store the solution in a sterile glass or stainless steel container. Pass 2.5 ml of dimethylacetamide through the filter and add the wash to the filtrate. Mix well. This is Solution A. 3. Using aseptic technique place 200 ml of Sterile Water for Injection, U.S.P. in a sterile glass or stainless steel container. With very rapid stirring add Solution A Step 2 over a 5 minute period. A thick brown crystalline mass forms. After approximately one half hour of stirring, a change of state is noted and a fluid mass of orange colored microcrystals is obtained. Vigorously stir an additional two hours. 4. Remove the crystals by lint free sterile filtration technique. Wash the crystals with 50 ml of Sterile Water for Injection. U.S.P. 5. Vacuum dry the crystals at 55 600C for 24 48 hours. Expected Yield 1.2 grams. 6. Using aseptic technique, pass the crystals through a sterile 60 mesh stainless steel screen and store the crystals in a sterile screw cap amber bottle. Properties of m AMSA Base Karl Fisher Water 0.56 NDR No evidence of dimethylacetamide MP Cap, uncorr. 226 2300C decomposition.Preparation 4Crystalline L Monolactate Hemiacetonate of m AMSA m AMSA 400 mg was dissolved in 35 ml of acetone after 10 minutes of stirring. To this solution there was added with stirring a solution of 450 mg 4 equivalents of L lactic acid in 10 ml of acetone. An aliquot of the resulting mixture was glass rod scratched in a small glass test tube to form crystals. The crystals were added to the reaction mixture and the mixture was stirred for 2 hours at room temperature. The orange crystals which formed were removed by filtration, washed with 10 ml of acetone and vacuum dried at 500C for 18 hours. Yield of crystalline monolactate 0.53 grams.Properties of mono L lactate hemiacetonate MP 135 143 C decomposition. Spectral analysis IR, NMR and W spectra were consistent for a solvated monolactate salt containing 0.5 mole acetone per mole of m AMSA. H2O, KF 0.64 Elemental Analysis C, 58.44 H, 5.58 N, 7.70 S, 5.95. Solubility in water 5 mg ml, Stability 15 mg salt was reconstituted with 10 ml sterile water. The solution was stable for at least 24 hours and showed less that a 6E activity loss after 2 weeks storage at 450C. Preparation 5Sterile Crystallization of m AMSA Mono L t Lactate Hemiacetonate 1. Slurry 1.0 g of m AMSA free base in 100 ml of acetone at 22 280C. A solution or near solution is obtained in 10 minutes.2. Using aseptic technique, pass the acetone solution of m AMSA through a sterile Millipore Fluoropore or Mitex filter. Collect the filtrate in a sterile glass or stainless steel container. Wash the filter with 15 ml of acetone and add the filtered acetone to the above filtrate. This is Solution A. Use Solution A in Step 5 within 5 hours, 3. Dissolve one gram of Lf lactic acid q.s. to 10 ml, in acetone 100 mg ml of L lactic acid . Stir for 5 minutes.4. Using aseptic technique pass the acetone solution of L lactic acid through a sterile Millipore Fluoropore or Mitex filter. Collect the filtrate in a sterile glass or stainless steel container. This is Solution B. Do not wash the filter.5. With moderate stirring add 5.8 ml of Solution B to all of Solution A over a 1 2 minute interval. This represents 2.5 equivalents 0.58 g of L lactic acid. Crystals should form in 10 minutes of stirring. If crystals do not form, sterile m SnzSA monolactate hemiacetonate seed crystals may be added or the sides of the container may be scratched with a sterile glass rod to induce crystallization.6. Stir an additional 1 hour after onset of crystallization.7. Remove the crystals by lint free sterile filtration technique. Wash the crystals with 25 ml of acetone pre viously filtered through a sterile Millipore Fluoropore or Mitex filter. 8. Vacuum dry the crystals at 500C for 16 24 hours. Yield of m AMSA mono L lactate hemiacetonate salt is 1.1 g.Preparation 6Crystalline DL Monolactate Acetone Solvate of m AMSA m AMSA base 150 mg was slurried in 15 ml of acetone for 15 minutes at 45 C. A small amount of insolubles were removed by vacuum filtration through a 15 cm fine glass filter. To the filtrate there was added 0.15 ml of an 80 DL lactic acid solution with rapid stirring. Crystals formed in about 10 minutes. The mixture was then stirred an additional 30 minutes.The crystals were removed by vacuum filtration through a 15 cm fine glass filter. The crystals were then washed with 2 ml of acetone and vacuum dried at 500C for 16 hours.There was obtained 180 mg of the title salt.Properties Elemental analysis C, 59.05 H, 5.55 H, 7.85 S, 5.88 . H20 KF 1.03. MP capillary, uncorrected 159 1660C decomposition. NMR spectrum of the product was consistent for a mono lactate salt of m AMSA containing 0.6 mole of acetone per mole of salt. The product contained as an im purity approximately 0.1 mole of lactyl lactate salt which is formed due to the presence of up to 208 of lactyl lactic acid in ASC purity DL lactic acid. The product salt may be reconstituted wth water to give a 5 7,5 mg ml solution which remains clear at 17 C for at least 6 hours. Reconstituted aqueous solutions of 5, 7.5 and 10 mg ml were readily obtained with 3 minutes shaking at 750F, Solubility of the salt in water at room temperature is at least 15 mg ml, This may be avoided by using in place of the 3L lactic acid an equimolar mixture of pure L lactic acid and pure D lactic acid. Preparation 7Sterile Crystallization of DL Monolactate Acetone Solvate of m AMSA 1. Slurry 1.0 gram of m AMSA base in 100 ml of acetone at 22 280C. A solution or near solution is obtained in 10 minutes.2. Using aseptic technique, pass the acetone solution through a sterile Millipore Fluoropore or Mitex filter. Collect the filtrate in a sterile glass or stainless steel container. Wash the filter with 10 ml of acetone and add the filtered acetone to the filtrate, This is Solution A. Use Solution A is step 5 within 5 hours.3. Dissolve 1 gram of DL lactic acid 1.18 ml of 85 DL lactic acid solution q.s. to 10 ml in acetone 100 mg ml of DL lactic acid , Stir for 5 minutes.4. Using aseptic technique, pass the acetone solution of DL lactic acid through a sterile Millipore Fluoropore or Mitex filter. Collect the filtrate in a sterile glass or stainless steel container. This is Solution B. Do not wash the filter. 5. With moderate stirring, add 5.8 ml of Solution B to all of Solution A over a 1 2 minute interval. This represents 2.5 equivalents 0.58 g of DL lactic acid. Crystals should form in 10 minutes of stirring. If crystals do not form, sterile m AMSA DL lactate acetone solvate seed crystals may be added or the sides of the container may be scratched with a sterile glass rod to induce crystal lization.6. Stir an additional I hour after onset of crystallization.7. Remove the crystals by lint free sterile filtration technique. Wash the crystals with 10 ml. of acetone previously filtered through a sterile Millipore Fluoropore or Mitex filter. 8. Vacuum dry the crystals at 50QC for 16 24 hours. Expected yield of DL lactate acetone solvate is 1.1 grams.Properties IR and NMR consistent for monolactate m AMSA salt having 0,7 mole acetone solvated and approximately 0.1 mole lactyl lactate as impurity. MP 159 1660C decomposition. m AMSA in salt 72 based on HPLC assay . Solubility in water 25 mg ml at room temperature.Preparation 8Sterile Crystallization of m AMSA D Monolactate Hemiacetonate 1. Slurry 1.0 gram of m AMSA base in 100 ml of acetone at 22 28 C. A solution or near solution is obtained in 10 minutes.2. Using aseptic technique, pass the acetone solution of m AMSA through a sterile Millipore Fluoropore or Mitex filter. Collect the filtrate in a sterile glass or stainless steel container. Wash the filter with 10 ml of acetone and add the Millipore filtered acetone to the filtrate. This is Solution A. Use Solution A in step 5 within 5 hours.3. Dissolve 1 gram of D lactic acid in sufficient acetone to provide 10 ml of acetone solution 100 mg ml of D lactic acid . Stir for 5 minutes.4, Using aseptic technique, pass the acetone solution of D lacte acid through a Millipore Fluoropore or Mtex filter. Collect the filtrate in a sterile glass or stainless steel container, This is Solution B, Do not wash the filter. 5, With moderate stirring add 5.8 ml of solution B to all of Solution A over a 1 2 minute interval. This represents 2.5 equivalents 0.58 g of D lactic acid. Crystals should form in 10 minutes of stirring. If crystals do not form, sterile m AMSA D lactate acetone solvate seed crystals may be added or the sides of the container may be scratched with a sterile glass rod to induce crystallization.6. Stir an additional 1 hour after onset of crystallization.7. Remove the crystals by suitable lint free sterile filtration technique. Wash the crystals with 10 ml of acetone previously filtered through a sterile Millipore Fluoropore or Mitex filter.8. High vacuum dry the crystals at 500C for 16 24 hours. Usual yield of m AMSA D monolactate acetone solvate is 1.1 grams.Properties IR and NMR consistent for monolactate m AMSA salt having 0.4 mole acetone solvated to salt. MP capillary, uncorrected 180 1840C decomposition. m AMSA in salt 78.4 based on HPLC assay . Elemental analysis C, 59.47 H, 5.20 N, 8.41 S, 6.46. H2O KF 0.39.Preparation 9Crystalline m AMSA Monogluconate Salt Delta gluconolactone 0.89 g 0.005 mole was dissolved in 0.5 ml of water. m AMSA base 1.95 g 0.005 mole and 100 ml of ethanol were added, and the mixture was then refluxed for a short time, i.e. about 5 10 minutes. The resulting solution was allowed to stand overnight whereupon crystalline material separated from solution. The product was recrystallized from 100 ml of ethanol to give 1.10 g of crystalline m AMSA monogluconate salt. Properties m AMSA content by U.V. 62.6 theoretical content is 66.6 . gluconic acid content by U.V. 36.9 . gluconolactone content by U.V. 1.1 . Solubility in water 30 mg ml at 50 600C 25 mg ml at room temperature. When dissolved in water at a concentration of 7.1 pg ml, the gluconate salt exhibits ultraviolet absorption peaks at 208 nm O.D. 0.527 , 247,5 nm O,D. 0.567 , 263 nm O.D. 0.425 and 412 nm O.D. 0.121 . The IR spectrum was consistent for the monogluconate salt of m AMSA.Preparation 10Sterile Crystallization of Mannitol 1. Place 90 ml. of sterile water into a glass container. Start stirring and maintain the temperature in the range of 20 260C. Add and dissolve 13.6 grams of mannitol. Maintain stirring until solution is obtained.2. Continue stirring and add 1.4 grams of Darko KB activated carbon . Maintain stirring for 1 hour.3. Remove the carbon by filtration. Wash the carbon cake with 5 ml of sterile water. Add the wash to the filtrate.4. Using nitrogen pressure and aseptic technique, pass the filtrate through a sterile, pyrogen free 0.22 micron Millipore filter into a sterile, pyrogen free glass container.5. Using aseptic technique, add to the filtrate, with rapid stirring and over a 10 minute interval, 500 ml of acetone which has been filtered through a sterile 0.22 micron Millipore filter. Crystals form. Alternatively, the filtrate may be added over a 10 minute interval to 500 ml of rapidly stirring acetone which has been filtered through a sterile 0.22 micron Millipore filter. Maintain stirring for 0.5 hour at room temperature.6. Remove the crystals by suitable filtration using aseptic technique.7. Wash the crystals on the filter with two 20 ml portions of acetone which has been filtered through a sterile 0.22 micron Millipore filter.8. Using aseptic technique remove the crystals from the filter and air dry at 100 1150C for 24 hours. Yield Approximately 11.4 grams 84 yield .9. Store the crystals in a sterile, pyrogen free amber glass container capped with a metal screw cap containing a Teflon liner, Example 1Lyophilized Mixture of m AMSA L Monolactate HemiacetonateSalt and Nicotinamide 20 mg. m AMSA activity vials 100 vials FormulaIngredient Per Vial m AMSA L monolactate 0.02 g m AMSA hemiacetonate activity nicotinamide 0.20 g Procedure 1. Place 65 ml sterile water in a glass container.2. With moderate stirring, add 20 grams of nicotinamide. A solution is obtained.3. Add, with stirring, the equivalent of 2 grams of m AMSA activity as m AMSA L monolactate hemiacetonate. A solution is obtained. Stir for 5 minutes.4. Add sterile water to qs. to 100 ml. Stir for 10 minutes.5. Using aseptic technique pass the solution through a sterile 0.22 micron Millipore filter. Collect the filtrate in a sterile amber screw cap bottle. The solution may be kept for 24 hours at room temperature if required. 6. Fill sterile vials with 2 ml of the solution. An overfill may be required to meet needle vial syringe holdup volumes. The amount of m MnISA L monolactate hemiacetonate needed is a function of the potency of the salt, overfill required and needle syringe vial holdup. For example, the m AMSA content of the hemiacetonate salt is 76.31 . Thus, to provide 0.02 grams of m AMSA activity, one would need 0.026 g of 1008 pure hemiacetonate salt. This amount is then adjusted for the actual potency of salt, overfill required, etc.CAUTION Solutions of m AMSA are incompatible with chloride, sulfate, phosphate and carbonate ions. Precipitates form. 7. Using aseptic technique, lyophilize the vials in a suitable sterile lyophilizer such as a Repp Sublimator shelf temp. 75 800F . After completion of the lyophilization, maintain the vacuum and a shelf tem. of 40 50DC for 18 24 hours. 8. Turn off the heat and break the vacuum with sterile air. 9. Stopper the vials with sterile rubber enclosures and cap with aluminum seals.10. The vials may be reconstituted with an amount of sterile water to yield 20 40 mg ml m AMSA activity as the L monolactate. If required, the reconstituted solution may be kept in the dark at ambient room temperature for 24 hours. Example 2 Dry fill Mixture of m AMSA L Monolactate Hemiacetonate and Nicotinamide 20 mg m AMSA activity vials 100 vials Formula Ingredient Per Vial Sterile m AMSA L monolactate 0.020 g activity hemiacetonate, 60 mesh Sterile nicotinamide, 60 mesh 0.20 g Procedure 1. Using aseptic technique, blend the sterile 60 mesh nicotinamide and m AMSA lactate hemiacetonate in a sterile blender. Mix for 2 hours. 2. If lumps are present, pass the blend through a sterile mill 60 mesh . 3. Collect and store the blend in a sterile amber screw cap bottle. N 4 Obtain the required assays. See footnote of Example 1. 5. Using aseptic technique, fill the required amount of the sterile blend into sterile vials. Cap with sterile en closures and seal with aluminum seals.6. The amount of sterile water required for reconstitution is that amount which will give 20 40 mg ml of m AMEA activity. Example 3Dry fill Mixture of m AMEA, Citric Acid and Nicotinamide 20 mg m AMSA activity vials FormulaIngredient Per VialSterile m AMSA base, 60 mesh 0.02 gSterile citric acid, 60 mesh 0.01 gSterile nicotinamide, 60 mesh 0.20 g Procedure 1. Using aseptic technique, place the required amounts of sterile 60 mesh m AMSA base, citric acid and nicotinamide in a sterile blender.2. Blend for 2 hours.3. Drop the blend into a sterile amber screw cap glass bottle.4. Obtain required assays.5. Using aseptic technique, fill the required amount of sterile blend into sterile vials. Cap with sterile rubber enclosures and seal with aluminum seals.6. The amount of sterile water required for reconstitution is that amount which will give a 20 mg ml solution of m AEA activity as the monocitrate salt. The solution may be stored in the dark for 24 hours at room temperature. actual amount of m AMSA base used will depend on potency. Example 4Lyophilized Mixture of m AMSA, Citric Acid and Nicotinamide 20 mg m AD SA activity vials 100 vials FormulaIngredient Per Vial m AMSA base 0.02 g citric acid, anhydrous 0.01 g nicotinamide 0.20 g Procedure 1. Place 70 ml sterile water in a clean glass or stainless steel container.2. With moderate stirring, add and dissolve the nicotinamide 20 g and the anhydrous citric acid 1 g or the equi valent as 1.086 g citric acid monohydrate . Stir for 5 minutes.3. With rapid stirring, add the m AMSA base 2 g over a 5 minute interval. A solution or near solution is ob tained. Stir an additional 5 minutes.4. Stop stirring and add sterile water to qs. to 100 ml. Stir for 15 minutes. A solution or near solution is obtained.5. Using aseptic technique, pass the solution of m AMSA monocitrate through a sterile 0.22 micron Millipore filter. Collect and store the filtrate in a sterile screw cap amber bottle. If required, the solution may be stored in the dark at room temperature for up to 24 hours.6. Fill 2 ml 20 mg of m AMSA activity of the solution into sterile vials.7. Using aseptic technique, lyophilize the vials in a suitable lyophilizer such as a Repp Sublimator shelf temperature 75 800F . At Actual amount used dependent on potency. the completion of the lyophilization cycle, raise the shelf temperature to 40 5DoC and maintain the vacuum for 16 24 hours. 8. Shut off the heat and release the vacuum with sterile air. 9. Cap the vials with sterile rubber enclosures. Seal with aluminum seals.10. The vials may be reconstituted with an amount of sterile water to give 20 mg ml of m AMSA activity as the m AMSA monocitrate salt. If required, the solution may be stored in the dark at room temperature for up to 24 hours. Example 5 Dry fill Mixture of m AMSA, Nicotinamide and L Lactic Acid 50 mg m ABA activity vials Formula Ingredient Per Vial Sterile m AMSA base, 60 mesh 50 mg Sterile nicotinamide, 60 mesh 300 mg Sterile L lactic acid, 60 mesh 26 mg Procedure Using aseptic technique blend sterile m AMSA, nicotinamide and L lactic acid and fill blend into sterile vials. Cap and seal. For reconstitution, qs. to 1 ml with sterile water to give a 50 mg ml m AMSA activity solution, This solution can be used for bolus injection or diluted with sterile water to give 1, 2, 5 or 10 mg ml m AMSA activity solutions. The above mixture can be rapidly 3 min. reconstituted with sterile water. The 50 mg ml solution and 1, 2, 5 and 10 mg ml dilutions remain clear for at least 24 hours at 15 200C. Example 6 D y fill Mixture of m AMSA, Nicotinamide and L Lactic Acid FormulaIngredient Per VialSterile m AMSA, 60 mesh 50 mgSterile nicotinamide, 60 mesh 350 mgSterile L lactic acid, 60 mesh 13 mg Procedure The above mixture is made according to the general procedure of Example 5. With only 1 mole L lactic acid per mole m AMSA, reconstitution time is somewhat greater and the 5 and 10 mg ml dilutions do not remain clear for 24 hours at 15 200C. Example 7Dry fill Mixture of m AMSA Mono L Lactate Hemiacetonate,Nicotinamide and L Lactic Acid 50 mg m AMSA activity vials FormulaIngredient Per VialSterile m AMSA L monolactate 50 mg m BlSA activity hemiacetonate, 60 meshSterile nicotinamide, 60 mesh 400 mg nicotinamideSterile L lactic acid, 60 mesh 13 mg Procedure The above mixture is made according to the general procedure of Example 5. Amount of salt actually used is dependent on potency. For 100 pure salt, calculate wgt. needled by formula mg m AMSA activity desired .7631 Example 8Dry fill Mixture of m AMSA DL Monolactate Acetone Solvate and Ni cotinamide FormulaIngredient Per VialSterile m PfflSA DL monolactate 0.075 g of m AMSA acetone solvate containing activity 0.6 0.7 moles acetone per mole of lactate salt, 60 meshSterile nicotinamide, 60 mesh 0.30 g Procedure 1. Using aseptic technique blend the sterile 60 mesh nicotinamide and m AMSA salt in a sterile blender. Mix for 2 hours.2. If lumps are present, pass the blend through a sterile 60 mesh stainless steel screen or a sterile mill 60 mesh . 3. Collect and store the blend in a sterile amber screw cap bottle.4. Obtain the required assays.5. Using aseptic technique, fill the required amount of the sterile blend into sterile vials. Cap with sterile en closures and seal with aluminum seals.6. For administration, the vial is reconstituted with sterile water, qs. to 1 ml, to yield 75 mg ml of m AMSA activity. This in turn may be diluted with sterile water or sterile 5 dextrose solution to yield 7.5 mg ml or less of m AMSA. These solutions may be stored at ambient room temperature and should be used within 24 hours. Example 9 Using the general procedures of Examples 1 9, the following compositions may be prepared 9A Dry fill Mixture FormulaIngredient Per Vial m AMSA base 75 mg ncotinamide 350 mgL lactic acid 39 mg 9B Dry fill Mixture FormulaIngredient Per Vial m AMSA base 20 mg nicotinamide 100 mgL lactic acid 10.4 mg 9C Lyophilized Mixture FormulaIngredient Per Vial m AMSA L monolactate 50 mg m AMSA activity hemiacetonate nicotinamide 350 mgD lactic acid 13 mg See footnote, Example 7. 9D Lyophilized Mixture FormulaIngredient Per Vial m AMSA D monolactate 50 mg m AMSA activity hemiacetonate nicotinamide 350 mgD lactic acid 13 mg See footnote, Example 7.9E Lyophilized Mixture FormulaIngredient Per Vial m AMSA DL monolactate 50 mg m MEA activity acetone solvate nicotinamide 350 mgDL lactic acid 13 mg 9F Dry fill Mixture FormulaIngredient Per Vial m AMSA gluconate 75 mg m AMSA activity nicotinamide 360 mg gluconic acid 34 mg 9G Lyophilized Mixture FormulaIngredient Per Vial m AMSA gluconate 75 mg m AMSA activity nicotinamide 360 mg gluconic acid 38 mg 9H Lyophilized Mixture FormulaIngredient Per Vial m AMSA 75 mg m ANEA activity nicotinamide 350 mg gluconolactone 65 mg 91 Lyophilized Mixture FormulaIngredient Per Vial m AMSA 50 mg m AMSA activityL pyroglutamic acid 17 35 mg nicotinamide 350 mg 9J Lyophilized Mixture FormulaIngredient Per Vial m AMSA 50 mg m AMSA activity tartaric acid 2 molar equivalents nicotinamide 300 mg RTI ID 32.3 9K Dry fill Mixture FormulaIngredient Per Vial m AMSA 50 mg m AMSA activity glucoheptonic acid 2 molar equivalents nicotinamide 350 mg 9L Lyophilized Mixture Formula Ingredien. Per Vial m AMSA 50 mg m AMSA activity levulinic acid 2 molar equivalents nicotinamide 300 mg 9M Lyophilized Mixture Formula Ingredient Per Vial m AMSA gluconate 50 mg m AYÀ activity nicotinamide 300 mg 9N Lyophilized Mixture FormulaIngredient Per Vial m AMSA DL monolactate 75 mg m AMSA activity acetone solvate nicotinamide 350 mg 90 Dry fill Mixture FormulaIngredient Per Vial m AMSA D monolactate 75 mg m AMSA activity hemiacetonate nicotinamide 350 mg 9P Dry fill Mixture FormulaIngredient Per Vial m AMSA L monolactate 50 mg m AMSA activity hemiacetonate nicotinamide 300 mg