# Azabicycloalkane derivatives, their preparation and use.

## Abstract
Compounds of the formula I and pharmaceutically acceptable satls thereof

## Claims
Claims 1. A compound of the formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof EMI49.1 wherein R1 is a C1 6 alkoxy or C16 alkylthio group R11 is hydrogen, amino or C1 7 acylamino R12is C1 6 alkylsulphinyl R5 is hydrogen or C16 alkyl R6 is C1 7 alkyl or a group CH2 sR7 where s is O to 2 and R7 is a C3 8 cycloalkyl group, or a group CH2 tR8 where t is 1 or 2 and R8 is C2 5 ak lenyl or a phenyl group optionally substituted by one or two substituents selected from C1 6 alkyl, C 1 4 alkoxy, trifluoromethyl and halogen, or a thienyl group and n, p and q are independently 0 to 2. 2. A compound according to claim 1 or a pharma ceutically acceptable salt thereof, characterised in that R1 is C16 alkoxy R11 is hydrogen, amino or C1 7 acylamino R12 is C1 6 alkylsulphinyl R5 is hydrogen or C1,6 alkyl R6 is C1 7 alkyl or a group CH2 sR7 where s is O to 2 and R7 is a C38 cycloalkyl group, or a group CH2 tR8.where t is 1 or 2 and R8 is C25 alkenyl or a phenyl group optionally substituted by one or two substituents selected from C1 6 alkyl, C1 4 alkoxy, trifluoromethyl and halogen and n, p and q are independently 0 to 2. 3. A compound according to claim 1 or 2 of formula VI or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof characterised in that R13 is hydrogen or amino and R14 is C16 alkyl. 4. A compound according to claim 3 of formula VIII or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof EMI50.1 EMI50.2 characterised in that R26 is C I alkyl a group CH2 tR 8 characterised in that t is 1 or 2 and R is optionally substituted phenyl as defined in claim 1 cyclohexylmethyl, or 2 thienylmethyl and R13 and R14 are as defined in claim 3. 5. 2 Methoxy 5 methylsulphinyl N 3 beta 8 benzyl 8 azabicyclo 3,2, l octyl benzamide, 2 methoxy 5 methylsulphinyl N 3 ss 8 p methylbenzyl 8 azabicyclo 3.2.1 octyl benzamide, 2 methoxy 5 methylsulphinyl N 3 ss 8 3 methylbenzyl 8 azabicyclo 3.2.1 octyl benzamide, 2 methoxy 5 methylsulphinyl N 3 ss 8 4 methylpentyl 81 azabicyclo 3.2. 1 joctyl benzamide, 2 methOxy 5 methylsulphinyl N 3 ss 8 5 methylheXyl 8 azabicyclo 3.2.1 octyl benzamide, 2 methOxy 5 methylsulphinyl N t3 ss 8 cycloheXylmethyl 8 azabicyclo 3.2.1 octyl benzamide, 4 Amino 2 methoxy 5 methylsulphinyl N 3 ss 8 benzyl 8 azabicyclo 3.2.1 octyl benzamide, 4 amino 2 methoxy 5 methylsulphinyl N 3 ss 8 p methylbenzyl 8 azabicyclo 3.2.1 octyl benzamide, 4 amino 2 methoxy 5 methylsulphinyl N 3 ss 8 3 methylbutyl 8 azabicyclo 3.2.1 octyl benzamide, 4 amino 2 methoxy 5 methylsulphinyl N 3 ss 8 4 methylpentyl 8 azabicyclo 3.2.1 octyl benzamide, 4 amino 2 methoxy 5 methylsulphinyl N 3 ss 8 5 methylhexyl 8 azabicyclop 3.2.1 octyl benzamide, 4 amino 2 methoxy 5 methylsulphinyl N 3 ss 81 cyclohexylmethyl 8 azabicyclo 3.2. l octyl benzamide, 4 Amino 5 ethylsulphinyl 2 methoxy N 3 8 benzyl 8l azabicyclo 3.2.1 octyl benzamide, 4 amino 2 methoxy s ethyisulphinyl N 3 p 8 p methylbenzyl 8l azabicyclo 3.2.1 octyl benzamide, 4 amino 2 methoxy 5 ethylsulphinyl N 3lss 8l 3 methylbutyl 8 azabicyclo 3.2. l octyl benzamide, 4 amino 2 methoxy 5 ethylsulphinyl N 3 beta 8 p 4 methylpentyl 8 azabicyclo 3.2.1 octyl benzamide, 4 amino 2 methoxy 5 ethylsulphinyl N 3sss 8l 5s methylhexyl 8 azabicyclo 3.2.1 octylE benzamide, 4 amino 2 methoxy 5 ethylsulphinyl N 3 8 cyclo hexylmethyl 8 azabicyclo 3.2.1 octyl or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. 6. A compound according to claim 3 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof of the formula X EMI52.1 wherein R2 is as defined in claim 4. 6 7. A process for the preparation of a compound of the formula I according to claim 1, characterised by a reacting an acid of the formula XII EMI52.2 wherein R 11 is nitro, or R11 as defined and R 12 is C1 6 alkylsulphinyl or, when R1 is C16 alkoxy, C16 alkylthio or a reactive derivative thereof, with a compound of formula XIII EMI53.1 wherein R6 is as defined in formula I , the remaining variable groups being as defined in formula I and thereafter if necessary converting a group R 11 or R 12 in the thus formed compound to a group R11 12 respectively optionally converting R6 to another R6 and optionally forming a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the resultant compound of the formula I or b reacting a compound of the formula XV or a salt thereof EMI53.2 wherein the variable groups are as defined in formulae XII and XIII with a compound QR6 wherein R6 is as defined in formula I and Q is a group or atom readily 1 by a nucleophile, converting RÚ12 and RÚ11 in 1 displaced by a nucleophile, converting R 12 and R 11 in the resulting compound to R12 and R 11 as defined in formula I respectively, and optionally forming a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the resultant compound of the formula I . 8. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound according to claim 1 or a hydrate or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. 9. A method of treatment of maladies in humans comprising the administration of a therapeutically effective amount of a compound according to claim 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

## Description
ACTIVE COMPOUNDS This invention relates to novel compounds, to pharmaceutical compositions containing them, and to a process for their preparation. European Patent Application No 79302978.6 and allowed U.S Patent Application No. 107,413 disclose that compounds of the formula A , and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof EMI1.1 wherein R1is a C16 alkoxy group R2 and R3 are the same or different and are hydrogen, halogen, CF3, C2 7 acyl, C27 acylamino, or amino, aminocarbonyl or aminosulphone optionally substituted by one or two C16 alkyl groups, C1 6 alkylsulphone or nitro R5 is hydrogen or C16 alkyl R6is C17 alkyl or a group CH2 sR7 where s is 0 to 2 and R7 is a C3 8 cycloalkyl group, or a group CH2 tR8 where t is 1 or 2 and R8 is C 2 5 alkenyl or a phenyl group optionally substituted by one or two substituents selected from C16 alkyl, C14 alkoxy, trifluoromethyl and halogen and n, p and q are independently 0 to 2 have useful pharmacological activity. More specifically the compounds of formula A are stated to be useful in the treatment of disorders related to impaired gastro intestinal motility and or in the treatment of disorders of the central nervous system. All the compounds are stated to have anti emetic activity. The said European andUS Patent Applications, the subject matter of which is imported herein by reference, has extensive exemplification of typical compounds of the formula A and of their pharmacological activity, establishing the veracity ofthe claimed utilities for the class of compounds defined by formula A . In the said formula A R3 may be a C16 alkylsulphonyl group R S02 . It has now been discovered that certain compounds of a generally similar structure to that of formula A but wherein R3 is a C16 alkylsulphinyl group R SO , also have useful pharmacological activity. Accordingly the present invention provides a compound of the formula I , and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof EMI3.1 wherein R1 is a C1 6 alkoxy or C1 6 alkylthio group R11 is hydrogen, amino or C1 7 acylamino R12 is C1 6 alkylsulphinyl R5 is hydrogen or C1 6 alkyl R6 is C17 alkyl or a group CH2 sR7 where s is 0 to 2 and R7 is a C38 cycloalkyl group, or a group CH2 tR8 where t is 1 or 2 and R8 is C2 5 alkenyl or a phenyl group optionally substituted by one or two substituents selected from C1 6 alkyl, C1 4 alkoxy, trifluoromethyl and halogen, or a thienyl group and n, p and q are independently 0 to 2. Examples of R11 acylamino groups include acetylamino, propionylamino and n and iso butyrylamino. Examples of R12 C 1 6 alkylsulphinyi groups include methyl, ethyl and n and iso propyl sulphinyl. More suitably R11 is hydrogen, amino or acetylamino. Preferably R11 is hydrogen or amino, most preferably amino. Preferably R12 is methylsulphinyl. It is generally preferred that any R11 group present is in the 4 position relative to the carbonyl side chain for greater activity in the resultant compound of the formula I . For the same reason it is generally preferred that R12 is in the 5 position relative to the carbonyl side chain. Thus most preferably R11 is 4 amino and R12 is 5 methylsulphinyl. It will be appreciated that suitable and preferred examples of the variable groups common to formula I and to formula A will be as described in the said European andUS Patent Applications. Thus Suitable examples of the group R1 include methoxy, ethoxy and n and iso propoxy, methylthio, ethylthio and nand iso propylthio. Preferably R1 is a methoxy group. Often the amide and side chain nitrogen atoms are separated by a minimum of 2 or 3 carbon atoms, preferably 3. When the separation is 3 atoms and n is 0, the CONR5 moiety is preferably in an equatorial orientation to the bicyclic system. Suitable examples of R5 include hydrogen, methyl, ethyl, n and iso propyl, n , sec and tert butyl, preferably hydrogen or methyl, in particular hydrogen, Suitable examples of R6 when C1,7 alkyl include methyl, ethyl, n and iso propyl and n , sec , iso and tert butyl, n pentyl, n hexyl, n heptyl and 3 methylbutyl. Within C1,7 radicals, C14 alkyl are useful. Suitable examples of R6 when C14 alkyl include methyl, ethyl, n and iso propyl and n , sec , iso and tertbutyl, particularly methyl, n propyl and SeC butyl. Similarly, within C17 radicals, C 5 7 alkyl are also of interest. Suitable examples of R6 when C57 alkyl include n pentyl, n hexyl and n heptyl, 3 methylbutyl, 4 methylpentyl and 5 methylhexyl. When R6 is a group CH2 sR7 as defined, suitable examples of R7 include C58 cycloalkyl, preferably cyclohexyl.s is preferably 1. When R6 is a group CH2 t R8 as defined, t is preferably 1. In such a group R6, when R is C 5 alkenyl, 8 2 5 nyl, suitable examples thereof include vinyl, prop l enyl, prop 2 enyl, 1 methylvinyl 1but l enyl, but 2 enyl, but3 enyl, l methylenepropyl, l methylprop l enyl and 1methylprop 2 enyl, in their E and Z forms where stererisomerism exists. A preferred C15 alkenyl R8 radical is vinyl, so that R6 is preferably allyl. When R8 is optionally substituted phenyl as defined above, suitable examples of such optional phenyl substitutents include methyl, ethyl, n and iso propyl, n, sec and tertbutyl methoxy, ethoxy, n and iso propoxy CF3, fluoro, chloro or bromo. Preferably R8 when optionally substituted phenyl is unsubstituted. When R8 is thienyl it may be 2 or 3 thienyl. Two values for R6 are optionally substituted benzyl as hereinbefore defined and thienylmethyl also called thenyl . Optionally substituted benzyl is favoured, preferably benzyl. Compounds of the formula I wherein R6 is CH2 sR7 and CH2 tRs as defined, and wherein R6 contains at least 5 carbon atoms, are of particular interest because of their beneficial pharmacological activity. n is preferably 0. q is suitably 0 to 1, preferably 1. p is suitably 0 to 1, preferably 0. The pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compounds of the formula I include acid addition salts with conventional acids such as hydrochloric, hydrobromic, phosphoric, sulphuric, citric, tartaric, lactic and acetic acid and the like. The pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compounds of the formula I also include quaternary ammonium salts. Examples of such salts include such compounds quaternised by compounds such as Rg 9 Y wherein Rg is C 1 6 alkyl, phenyl r C1 6 alkyl or C57 cycloalkyl, and Y is an anion of an acid. Suitable examples of Rg include methyl1 ethyl and n and iso propyl and benzyl and phenylethyl. Suitable examples of Y include the halides such as chloride, bromide and iodide. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable salts also include internal salts such as N oxides. The compounds of the formula I can also form hydrates, and the invention extends to such hydrates. A group of compounds within those of the formula I consist of those wherein R11 is hydrogen, amino or C17 acylamino R1 is C1 6 alkoxy R12 is C16 alkylsulphinyl R5 is hydrogen or C16 alkyl R6 is C17 alkyl or a group CH2 5R7 where s is O to 2 and R7 is a C38 cycloalkyl group, or a group CH2 tR8 where t is 1 or 2 and R8 is C25 alkenyl or a phenyl group optionally substituted by one or two substituents selected from C16 alkyl, C1 4 alkoxy, trifluoromethyl and halogen and n, p and q are independently 0 to 2. From the aforesaid it will be seen that in a preferred aspect the moiety of formula II EMI6.1 in a compound of the formula I will have the structure III EMI7.1 wherein R14 is C16 alkyl and R13 is hydrogen,or amino. Preferably R13 is amino. Preferably R14 is methyl or ethyl, in particular methyl. In a preferred group of compounds within those of formula I and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, the moiety of formula II will be of the formula III , and the moiety of formula IV EMI7.2 will have the formula V EMI7.3 wherein the variables are as defined in formula I , so that these preferred compounds of the formula I are of the formula VI EMI7.4 wherein t variables are as defined above. More suitably p is O or 1, it is believed preferably 0. Preferably q is 1 and the moiety of formula III is then attached at a position para to the Natom the 3 position conventional numbering and in the p orientation . Suitable and preferred examples of R6 in formula VI include those listed under formula I for R6 Particularly preferred examples of R6 include C17 alkyl and cyclohexylmethyl. Particularly preferred examples of R6 also include benzyl optionally substituted in the phenyl ring as defined under formula I . Unsubstituted benzyl is especially preferred. A sub group of compounds within those of formula VI are those of the formula VII EMI8.1 wherein R 6 is C 1 4 alkyl. Suitable examples of R 6 are as so described for R6 C1 4 alkyl under formula I . It is preferred that the moiety of the formula III is in the ss orientation to the nortropane ring. A particularly preferred sub group of compounds within those of formula VI are those of the formula VIII EMI8.2 wherein R26 is C 7 alkyl a group CII2 tR 8 wherein t is .5 7 1 or 2 and R 8 is optionally substituted phenyl as defineel in formula I cyclohexylmethyl, or thienylmethyl. Suitable and preferred R26 are as so described for the corresponding R6 groups under formula I . R 6 benzyl is especially preferreJ. It is preferred that the moiety of the formula III is in the p orientation to the nortropane ring. A sub group of compounds within those of the formula VI of interest are those of the formula IX EMI9.1 wherein R6 is as defined in formula VII . Suitable examples of R 1 are as so described under formula VII . 6 Another sub group of compounds within those of the formula VI of interest are those of the formula X EMI9.2 wherein R2 is as defined in formula VIII Suitable and preferred examples of R 6 are as so described under formula VIII . A second group of compounds within those of formula I is of formula XI EMI10.1 wherein n is 1 or 2 and the remaining variables are as defined in formula VI . More suitably p and q are each 0 or 1. Preferably p is 0 and q is 1. Preferably n is 1. Suitable and preferred R6, R13 and R14 are as so described under formula VI . It will of course be realised that the compounds d the formula I have chiral or prochiral centres, and thus are capable of existing in a number of stereoisomeric forms. The invention extends to each of these stereoisomeri forms, and to mixtures thereof including racemates . The different stereoisomeric forms may be separated one from the other by the usual methods, or any given isomer may be obtained by stereospecific or asymmetric synthesis. The compounds of formula I may be prepared in analogous manner to the compounds of formula A . The invention thus provides a process for the preparation of a compound of the formula I , which process comprises reacting an acid of the formula XII EMI11.1 wherein RÚ 11 is nitro, or R11 as defined and 12 is C16 alkylsulphinyl or, when R1 is C1 6 alkoxy, C16 alkylthio or a reactive derivative thereof, with a compound of formula XIII EMI11.2 wherein R6 is as defined in formula I , the remaining variable groups being as defined in formula I and thereafter if necessary converting a group R 11 or R 12 in the thus formed compound to a group R11 12 respectively converting R6 to another R6 and optionally forming a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the resultant compound of the formula I . Reactive derivative when used herein means a derivative of the compound XII which can be reacted with the compound XIII to form an amido linkage between the acid group of the compound XII and the amino group of the compound of the formula XIII . Often this reactive derivative will be the acid halide, such as the acid chloride, of the acid XII . In such cases, the reaction will normally be carried out in an inert solvent, preferably in the presence of an acid acceptor. The inert solvent can be any solvent inert to both reactants, such as benzene, toluene, diethyl ether or the like. The acid acceptor is suitably an organic base such as a tertiary amine e.g. triethylamine, trimethylamine, pyridine or picoline, or an inorganic acid acceptor, such as calcium carbonate, sodium carbonate, potassium carbonate or the like. It should also be noted that it is possible to use certain acid acceptors as the inert solvent, for example organic bases. These reactions may be carried out at any nonextreme temperature such as 100 1000C and more suitably 00 BO0C. The higher reaction temperatures are employed with less active acids of the formula XIV whereas the lower temperatures are employed with the more reactive acids of the formula XIV . Another useful reactive derivative of the acid XII is a highly activated ester such as the pentachlorophenyl ester, when ambient temperatures may be used. The reaction is generally effected in an inert polar solvent, such as dimethylformamide. The reaction may also be carried out by forming an anhydride of the acid XII in the usual manner, and reacting that with the compound XIII , normally a conventional mixed anhydride will be used or by reacting the acid XII and the compound XIII in the presence of a dehydrating catalyst such as a carbodiimide, for example dicyclohexylcarbodiimide. The intermediates of the formulae XII and XIII are either known compounds or can be prepared by analogous processes to known compounds. It will be realised that in the compound of the formula I the CO NR5 CH linkage may have an a or p orientation with respect to the ring of the bicyclic moiety to which it is attached. A mixture of a and p isomers of the compound of the formula I may be synthesised nonstereospecifically and the desired isomer separated conventionally therefrom, e.g. by chromatography or alternatively the a or p isomer may if desired be synthesised from the corresponding a or p form of the compound of the formula XIII . Synthesis from the corresponding a or p isomer of the compound of the formula XIII is in general preferred. The a or p form of the compound of the formula XIII may if desired be prepared by known stereospecific processes, such as those leading to the a and ss isomers of the compound of the formula XIII depicted in the Scheme and described in Descriptions 3C, 4A and 4C of European PatentApplication No. 79302978.6 and allowed U.S. PatentApplication No. 107,413 for the isomers and Descriptions 2 and 3A and B of these Applications and presentDescriptions 1 and 2A and B for the p isomers. The precursor of the compound of the formula XIII may be stereospecifically synthesised, such as the azide D3 of Description 2 of the above European and U.S.Applications and present Description 1, and then converted to the corresponding desired isomer of the compound of the formula XIII under non stereospecific conditions with retention of configuration. Alternatively, the precursor may itself have no pro chiral centre at the relevant position, such as the oximes and imines ofDescriptions 3 and 4 of the above European and U.S.Applications but be converted under stereospecific conditions to the desired isomer of the compound of the formula XIII . Alternatively, a mixture of the a and p isomers of the compound of the formula XIII may be synthesised nonstereospecifically and the desired isomer separated conventionally therefrom e.g. by chromatography. However, in this case it is generally more convenient to react the mixture to give a mixture of a and p isomers of the compound of the formula I and to separate these if desired as hereinbefore described. The following Scheme 1 illustrates stereospecific and non stereospecific synthetic routes to intermediates of the formula XIII wherein n is 0. Scheme 1EMI15.1 Remainder of ring system omitted for clarity The following Scheme 2 illustrates preparative routes to intermediates of the formula XIII wherein n is 1 or 2. Scheme 2EMI16.1 The acid addition salts of compounds of the formula I may be prepared in entirely conventional manner by reacting a compound of the formula I in base form with the chosen acid. The quaternary ammonium salts of the compounds of the formula I may be prepared in conventional manner for such salts, such as by reaction of the chosen compound of the formula I with a compound R9Y as defined. This reaction is suitably carried out in an appropriate solvent such as acetone, methanol, ethanol, dimethylformamide and the like, at ambient or raised temperature and pressure. The nitrogen atom of the moiety of formula IV may also form an N oxide to give an internal N oxide salt of the compound of the formula I . The N oxides may be prepared in conventional manner such as by reaction of the chosen compound of the formula I with an organic per acid, such as m chloroperbenzoic acid. This reaction is suitably carried out at below ambient temperature in an organic solvent, preferably a chlorinated hydrocarbon solvent. It will be apparent that the product of the reaction of the compounds of formulae XII and XIII will be of formula XIV EMI17.1 wherein the variables are as defined in formalae XII and XIII . Compounds of the formula XIV containing an R1 Or R112 group convertible to R11 or 1 11 or R 12 group convertible to R11 or R12 are useful intermediates and as such form an important aspect of the invention. Some compounds of the formula XIV will also fall within formula I , Compounds of the formula I containing an Roll, or R6 group which is convertible to another Rll, R6 group are also useful intermediates and as such form an important aspect of the invention. The skilled man will appreciate that the choice 1 necessaty of conversion of groups R11, 1 or necessity of conversion of groups R11, Rill, R12 or R6 as above will be dictated by their nature and position. By way of example of such conversions, the conversion of a R 11 nitro group to a R11 amino group may be achieved in conventional manner such as by reduction. Thus an optional process step provided by this invention in the preparation of the compounds of the formula I wherein R12 is an amino group comprises the reduction of a corresponding intermediate of formula XIV wherein R12 is a nitro group. The reduction of the intermediates wherein R12 is a nitro group may be effected with reagents known to be suitable for reducing nitroanisole to aminoanisole.A suitable reagent for this reduction is stannous chloride in hydrochloric acid or in mixtures of hydrochloric and acetic acid. The desired amino compound may be obtained from the reaction mixture by respectively neutralisation followed by extraction into a water immiscible solvent such as ethyl acetate from which it may be recovered by evaporation of the solvent. Another suitable method is catalytic hydrogenation at atmospheric pressure in polar solvent such as ethanol. Transition metal catalysts such as Raney nickel are often used. The desired compound may be obtained from the reaction mixture by filtration and evaporation to dryness. The initial crude product in both cases may be purified by chromatography or crystallisation or by forming an acid addition salt which may be recrystallised. In general however, it is more convenient to prepare a compound ofthe formula I wherein R12 is an amino group from the corresponding C17 acylamino acid or its reactive derivative, and to deacylate the compound of the formula I so formed. Those compounds of the invention wherein R or R 11 11 is a C17 acylamino group may be prepared from the corresponding intermediate wherein R or R1 is an amino 11 ii group by reaction with an acylating derivative, such as previously described as a suitable acylating derivative, e.g. of the acid of the formula. The reaction may proceed as described for the reaction of the compounds of the formula. For an Rll formamido group acylation may be effected with the free acid. This invention thus also provides an optional process for the preparation of a compound of the formula I wherein R is an amino group which process comprises 11 the deacylation of a corresponding intermediate whereinR11 or R 11 is a C17 acylamino group. Generally the hydrolysis reaction may be effected by treatment with a base such as an alkali metal hydroxide. Although as noted R 11 may be nitro, it is generally preferred that R 11 is a R group. It will be appreciated that, when R6 in the compound of the formula XIV is optionally substituted benzyl as hereinbefore defined, R6 may be replaced by another group R5. Such R6 benzyl groups may be removed by conventional transition metal catalysed hydrogenolysis to give compounds of the formula XV EMI20.1 wherein the variable groups are as defined in formulae XII and XIII . This invention also provides an optional process step in the preparation of a compound of the formula I which comprises the reaction of a corresponding compound of the formula XV as hereinbefore defined with a compound QR6 wherein R6 is as defined in formula I and Q is a group or atom readily displaced by a nucleophile, converting R1 and R1 in the resulting compound of 12 11 formula XIV to R12 and Rll respectively and optionally forming a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the resulting compound of the formula I . Suitable values for Q include C1, Br, I, OS02CH3 or OSO2C6H4pCH3. Favoured values for Q include C1, Br and I. Particularly suitably the compound QR6 is a benzyl halide such as benzyl bromide or benzyl chloride. The reaction may be carried out under conventional alkylation conditions for example in an inert solvent such as dimethylformamide in the presence of an acid acceptor such as potassium carbonate. Generally the reaction is carried out at a non extreme temperature such as at ambient or at a slightly elevated temperature. However, it is generally more convenient to interconvert R6 in the compound of the formula XIII before coupling with the compound of the formula XII or its derivative. Such interconversions are effected conveniently under the above conditions. It is desirable to protect the amine function with a group readily removable by acidolysis such as a C27 alkanoyl groups before R6 interconversion. R112 C 1 6 alkylthio may be converted to R12 as defined. An alternative process according to the present invention thus comprises oxidising a compound of the formula XIV as hereinbefore defined wherein R1 is C 1 6 alkoxy and R112 is C 1 6 alkylthio and thereafter if necessary converting a group R 11 or R6 6 in the thus formed compound to a group R11 or R6 as hereinbefore defined and optionally forming a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the resultant compound of the formula I . These oxidations may conveniently be carried out conventionally at below ambient temperatures using an organic peracid in a non aqueous inert reaction medium preferably a chlorinated hydrocarbon solvent, for example using 3 chloroperbenzoic acid, or using a water soluble inorganic strong oxidant, such as an alkali metal permanganate, periodate or hydrogen peroxide in aqueous solution. It will be appreciated by the skilled man that, depending on the other specific substituents in the compound of the formula I , such an oxidation on a compound of the formula I may also form the N oxide of the bicyclic moiety therein. Given the specific substitution desired and having been decided whether the compound or its N oxide is required, the skilled man will readily ascertain whether such interconversion is desirable. In general however it is more convenient to prepare a compound of formula I from the corresponding C1 0 alkylsulphinyl acid or its reactive derivative. 1 conversion of R111 1 Any conversion of R11 , Rill, R12 s R12, or ó may take place in any desired or necessary order. The compounds of the formula I are dopamine antagonists. Depending on their balance between peripheral and central action, the compounds of the formula I may be used in the treatment of disorders related to impaired gastro intestinal motility, such as retarded gastric emptying, dyspepsia, flatulence, oesophagal reflux, peptic ulcer and emesis, and or in the treatment of disorders of the central nervous system, such as psychosis. All the compounds of the formula I may be used in the treatment of emesis. The quaternary salts of the compounds of formula I are of interest for their beneficial effect on gastric motility. The invention therefore also provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of the formula I , or a hydrate or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Such compositions may be adapted for oral or parenteral administration, and as such may be in the form of tablets, capsules, oral liquid preparations, powders, granules, lozenges, reconstitutable powders, injectable and infusable solutions or suspensions and the like the compositions may also be in the form of suppositories and the like. Normally, orally administrable compositions are preferred. Tablets and capsules for oral administration may be in unit dose presentation form, and may contain conventional excipients such as binding agents, fillers, tabletting lubricants, disintegrants, and acceptable wetting agents and the like. The tablets may be coated according to methods well known in normal pharmaceutical practice. Oral liquid preparations may be in the form of, for example, aqueous or oily suspensions, solutions, emulsions, syrups, or elixirs, or may be presented in a dry product for reconstitution with water or other suitable vehicle before use. Such liquid preparations may contain conventional additives such as suspending agents, emulsifying agents, nonaqueous vehciles which may include edible oils , preservatives, and if desired conventional flavouring or colouring agents, and the like. For parenteral administration, fluid unit dosage forms are prepared utilizing the compound of the formula I and a sterile vehicle. The compound, depending on the vehicle and concentration used, can be either suspended or dissolved in the vehicle. In preparing solutions the compound can be dissolved for injection and filter sterilized before filling into a suitable vial or ampoule and sealing. Advantageously, adjuvants such as a local anaesthetic, preservatives and buffering agents can be dissolved in the vehicle. Parenteral suspensions are prepared in substantially the same manner except that the compound is suspended in the vehicle instead of being dissolved and sterilized by exposure to ethylene oxide before suspending in the sterile vehicle.Advantageously, a surfactant or wetting agent is included in the composition to facilitate uniform distribution of the compound As is common practice, the compositions will usually be accompanied by written or printed directions for use in the medical treatment concerned. It will of course be realised that the precise dosage used in the treatment of any of the hereinbefore described disorders will depend on the actual compound of the formula I used, and also on other factors such as the seriousness of the disorder being treated. The invention further provides a method of treatment of maladies in humans comprising the administration of an effective amount of a compound of the formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. The effective amount will depend in the usual way on a number of factors such as the nature and severity of the malady to be treated, the weight of the sufferer, and the actual compound used. However by way of illustration, unit doses will suitably contain 0.01 to 20 mgs of the compound of formula I , for example 0.02 to 10 mgs. Again by way of illustration, such unit doses will suitably be administered more than once a day, for example 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6 times a day, in such a way that the total daily dose is suitably in the range 0.005 to 10 ma kq per day. Compounds of the formula I have the ability to potentiate the effect of conventional analgesics in migraine treatment when administered concurrently with the analgesic. Thus the invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of the formula I and an analgesic. The compound of the formula I and the analgesic, such as aspirin or paracetamol, will be present in the composition in amounts generally similar to their usual effective dose. The composition can be a combination product, for example a tablet or capsule containing both a compound of the formula I and an analgesic for oral administration, or a twin pack comprising the two active ingredients made up for separate administration. The invention accordingly provides a method of treatment of migraine comprising the administration to the sufferer of a compound of the formula I and an analgesic. The following Examples illustrate the preparation of compounds of formula I , and the following Descriptions illustrate the preparation of intermediates therefor. Nomenclature note Tropane is 8 methyl 8 azabicyclo 3.2.l octane and derivatives thereof are named accordingly in the following Descriptions.DESCRIPTION 1 3ss amino 8 benzal 8 azabicyclo 3.2.11octane D1 intermediate for Compounds 1 to 3EMI26.1 a 8 benzyl 3 nortropanol D2 8 benzyl 3 nortropanone 3.9 g was reduced with lithium aluminium hydride 1.0 g in diethyl ether to 8 benzyl 3 nortropanol D2 by the method bf R.Mirza et al., Nature, 1952, 170, 630. This is claimed byMirza to give stereospecifically the isomer but later workers have shown that a mixture of a and p isomers is produced. b 3B azido 8 benzylnortropane D3 Crude B benzyl 3 nortropanol D2 3.9 g. was reacted with successively, triphenylphosphine 4.7 g and diethyl azodicarboxylate 3.2 g , and diphenylphospborylazide 5 g in THF by the method of A.K. Bose et al., TetrahedronLetters, 1977, 23, 1977, to yield 3ss azido 8 benzyl l nortropane D3 as an oil 2 g, 25 . i.r. 2100 cm rN3 c 3P amino B benzvlnortropane D1 To a stirred suspension of lithium aluminium hydride 0.5 g in diethyl ether 50 ml was added a solution of 3 azido 8 benzylnortropane D3 2 g in diethyl ether 10 ml. , and the reaction was stirred at ambient temperature for 3 hours. Hydrolysis, extraction with ethyl acetate and removal of the solvent afforded crude 3 amino benzylnortropane 1.1 g, 60 used in the procedure of Examples 1 to 3 without further purification.DESCRIPTION 2A 3ss amino 8 methyl 8 azabicoclo r 3.2.11octane D4 , intermediate for Compound 4EMI27.1 a Tropinone oxime D5 Tropinone 3.68 g 0.0265 mole was dissolved in ethanol 50 ml containing pyridine 4 5 ml and treated with hydroxylamine hydrochloride 1.90 g . The mixture was heated under reflux for 30 minutes, cooled, treated with solid potassium carbonate ca. 10 g and water ca. 5 ml . The ethanol was removed in vacuo and the mixture extracted with chloroform 3 x 150 ml . The combined extracts were dried K2C03 , filtered and evaporated in vacua. The resulting solid was recrystallised from ethyl acetate petrol ether 40 60 to yield tropinoneoxime 3.1 g 76 as colourless crystals m.pt 114 1150C. b 3 amino 8 methyl 8 azabicyclol3.2.lloctane D4 Tropinone oxime 3.08 g, 0.02 mole was dissolved in anhydrous amyl alcohol 100 ml and heated to almost boiling. Sodium ca. 3.0 g was added portionwise over 1 hour then the mixture left to cool overnight. The mixture was treated with 5N hydrochloric acid ca. 80 ml , and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 x 150 ml . The acidic aqueous layer was separated, basified with sodium hydroxide and re extracted with ethyl acetate 4 x 150 ml and the combined extracts were dried K2C03 filtered and evaporated in vacuo to yield D8 2.25 g, 80 as a colourless oil, used without further purification.DESCRIPTION 2B 3 ss amino 8 benzal 8 a2abievclor3.2.11octane D1 intermediate for Compounds 1 to 3EMI28.1 a N Benzylnortropan 3 one D.6 EMI28.2 In a 500 ml r.b. flask, equipped with magnetic stirrer was placed H20 70 ml , 2 5 dimethoxy tetrahydrofuran 16.5 g, 0.125 mole and 3 drops of dilute 5 N hydroxhloric acid. When left to stir for 10 minutes the solution became clear with the formation of succindialdehyde. Benzylamine 13.65 ml, 13.4 g 0.125 mol was mixed carefully with dilute hydrochloric acid 30 mls 5N with cooling. When cold, this was added to the dialdehyde, followed by immediate addition of 1,3acetonedicarboxylic acid 18.26 g, 0.125 mole and sodium acetate ca LO g in water 100 ml . The pH of the reaction was checked to be 3 4. The reaction was sit ted for 3 days at room temperature during which time carbon dioxide was evoled and the pH approached neutral. The reaction mixture was basified to pH 8 and extracted with ethylacetate. The extracts were dried MgS04 filtered and evaporated in vacuo. Chromatographic purification on silica Kieselgel 60 Art 7734 using ethylacetate light petroleum ether 40 60 gave pure N Benzylnortropan 3 one 19.3 g, 72 as an oil, crystallising on standing in cold.b N Benzylnortropanone Oxime D.7 EMI29.1 In a 500 ml r.b. flask were placed the ketone 33.40 g 0.18 mole hydroxylamine hydrochloride 15 g, 0.22 mole ethanol 200 ml and pyridine 15 ml . The mixture was warmed to reflux on steam bath for 2 hours, cooled and evaporated in vacuo. The oxime was isolated by addition of water 50 ml , saturated K2CO3 and extraction with ethylacetate. The organic extracts were dried K2C03 filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The residue was filtered through Kieselgel 60 ethyl acetate then stripped to dryness to yield the oxime 39.93 g 97 mp. 122 1240C. Sodium 2 g was added portionwise over 2 hours to a stirred solution of 8 benzylnortropan 3 one oxime 0.9 g in amyl alcohol 20 ml at reflux. The solution was cooled,diluted,with diethyl ether and acidified with excess dilute hydrochloric acid. The acid extract was washed with diethyl ether and then basified with excess potassium carbonate. Extraction with ethyl acetate followed by evaporation of solvent afforded crude 3p amino 8 benzyl nortropane D1 0.85 g used in the procedure of Examples 1 to 3 without purification. The following intermediates of the general formulaEMI30.1 are prepared analogously EMI31.1 SEP SEP w SEP l tb Intermediate SEP Iz6 SEP For tb SEP No. SEP 6 SEP Compounds tb SEP 6 tb D8 SEP CH2 SEP 9 SEP SEP Me SEP 5,10,15 tb D9 SEP CH2CH2CH CH3 2 SEP 6,11,16 tb D10 SEP CH2 3CH CH3 2 SEP 7,12,17 tb D11 SEP CH2 4CH CH3 2 SEP 8,13,18 tb D12 SEP CH2 SEP SEP 9,14,19 tb DESCRIPTION 3 2 Methoxv 5 methvlsulphenslbenzoic acid D.13 EMI32.1 a 5 Chlorosulphonyl 2 methoxybenzoic acid D.14 Chlorosulphoric acid 95.5 g, 55 ml was added dropwise over 6 hours at a mixture of dichloroethane 72 ml , 2 methoxybenzoic acid 25 g, 0.164 mole and dry sodium chloride 9.75 g .The mixture was warmed to 400 to remove most of hydrochloric acid gas, then heated at 65 overnight. The reaction mixture was cooled and poured into water. The resulting precipitate was filtered, washed with water and sucked as dry as possible to give 5 chlorosulphonyl 2 methoxybenzoic acid 25.65 g 67 .b 2 Methoxv 5 methvlthio benzoic acid D.15 5 Chlorosulphonyl 2 methoxybenzoic acid 40.0 g 0.171 mole was suspended in concentrated hydrochloric acid 100 ml and water 50 ml . The suspension was stirred during portionwise addition of solid stannous chloride 260 g , and stirred for a further 24 hours. The resulting thick suspension was filtered and the solid was washed with dilute hydrochloric acid 100 ml and sucked as dry as possible. This solid was dissolved in dilute sodium hydroxide solution 400 ml and boiled. The yellow colour deepened then lightened after 3 4 hour. The hot solution was filtered through Kieselguhr and treated with dimethylsulphate 18 mls . The solution was allowed to stand for 72 hours, filtered and acidified with dilute hydrochloric acid to give 2 methoxy 5 methylthiobenzoic acid 20.20 g 60 as colourless microcrystals mp. 750.c 2 Methoxo 5 methYlsulphinYlbenzoic acid D.13 A solution of methanol 50 ml and 0.5 M sodium metaperiodate 52 ml was stirred and cooled in an icebath while 2 methoxy 5 methylthiobenzoic acid 50 g, 0.0250 mole was added over 10 minutes. After stirring at O for 4 hours an additional volume of methanol 50 ml was added and the solution was allowed to stand at room temperature for 3 days. The reaction mixture was diluted with water 100 ml and extracted with chloroform 3 x 100 ml .The combined organic extracts were dried Na2S04 filtered and evaporated in vacuo to yield 2 methoxy 5 methylsulphinylbenzoic acid 2.9 g 54 as colourless microcrystals mp. 11 1210 DESCRIPTION 4 4 Acetylamino 2 methoxy 5 methylsulphinylbenzoic acid D.16 EMI34.1 a Methyl 4 amino 2 methoxybenzoate D. 17 To a mixture of 4 aminosalicylic acid 60 g, 0.39 mole and potassium hydroxide 55.2 g, 0.98 mole in dry acetone 1200 ml was added dimethylsulphate 87.6 ml dropwise with vigorous stirring at room temperature. The mixture was stirred for 3 hours then the solvent was removed under reduced pressure.The solid residue was treated with water 800 ml and filtered to give Methyl4 amino 2 methoxy benzoate 61 g 86So as colourless microcrystals mp. 155 570 ex ethyl acetate petrol ether 40 60 C .b Methvl 4 amino 2 methoxy 5 thiocyanobenzoate D.18 Methyl 4 amino 2 methoxybenzoate 18.1 g 0.1 mole and potassium thiocyanate 20.0 g, 0.2 mole were dissolved in warm dry methanol 100 ml then cooled to 0 5 . Bromine 5.5 ml in methanol 30 ml was added dropwise over 1 hour. The mixture was stirred for a further hour then poured into water 2L to give methyl4 amino 2 methoxy 5 thiocyanobenzoate 18.8 g 79 as pale yellow microcrystals mp. 181 4 C. c 4 Amino 2 methoxy 5 methvlthiobenzoic acid D.l9 Methyl 4 amino 2 methoxy 5 thiocyanobenzoate 35.2 g, 0.15 mole was added to a solution of potassium hydroxide 49.41 g in dry methanol 1L , and the solution was heated under reflux for 1 2 3 4 hour. Methyliodide 30 ml was added dropwise over 11 2 hour and the solution was refluxed for a further hour. The mixture was evaporated to 1 4 volume and the precepitated mineral salts were filtered.The filtrate was evaporated to dryness and the residue was dissolved in water. After filtration of some methyl 4amino 2 methoxy 5 methylthiobenzoate 0.5 g mp. 1330 the filtrate was acidified to pH5 to give 4 amino 2 methoxy5 methylthiobenzoic acid 27 g 85 as colourless microcrystals mp. 147 49 . d 4 Acetvlamino 2 methoxv 5 methylthiobenzoic acid D. 20 4 Amino 2 methoxy 5 methylthiobenzoic acid 4.26 g 0.02 mole was dissolved in acetic acid 5 ml and treated with acetic anhydride 2 ml . The mixture was warmed on water bath for 2 hours, then poured onto ice water ca 250 ml to give 4 acetylamino 2 methoxy 5 methylthiobenzoic acid 3.36 g, 66 as colourless microcrystals mp. 163 650 ex ethylacetate petrol 40600 . e 4 Acetvlamino 2 methoxy 5 methvlsulphinvlbenzoic acid D.16 4 Acetylamino 2 methoxy 5 methylthiobenzoic acid 2.0 g, 0.0078 mole was added to a stirred solution of sodium metaperiodate 1.68 g in methanol 50 ml and water 50 ml . The mixture was allowed to stand at ambient temperatures overnight, poured into water 500 ml , and extracted with chloroform 3 x 100 ml . The combined organic extracts were dried Na2S04 filtered and evaporated in vacuo to give 4 acetylamino 2 methoxy 5 methylsulphinyl benzoic acid 1.0 g, 47 as colourless microcrystals mp.1930 ex ethylacetate ether . DESCRIPTION 5 4 Acetvlamino 5 ethvlsulphinsl 2 methoxvbenzoic acidEMI36.1 a 4 Amino 5 ethvlthio 2 methoxybenzoic acid D.21 Methyl 4 amino 2 methoxy 5 thiocyanobenzoate 5.40 g, 0.023 mole was dissolved in ethanol 80 ml containing potassium hydroxide 6.65 g and heated to reflux for 2 hours whilst stirring. The reaction mixture was cooled to 600 and ethylbromide bp 37 420 5 ml was added dropwise. The reaction mixture was stirred at 600 for 1 hour, heated to reflux for a further hour then cooled to room temperature. The precipitated mineral salts were filtered and the filtrate was evaporated in vacuo. The residue was dissolved in water, neutralised by dropwise addition of dilute hydrochloric acid extracted into chloroform.The combined extracts were dried Na2SO4 filtered and evaporated to dryness 5.5 g .The residue 5.5 g was dissolved in 50 aqueous ethanol 50 ml containing dilute sodium hydroxide 8 ml 2.5 M and heated to reflux for 2 hours. The mixture was evaporated in vacuo, dissolved in water 5 ml , acidified to pH 6 and extracted with chloroform 3 x 80 ml . The combined extracts were dried Na2S04 filtered and evaporated in vacuo to give 4 amino 5 ethy1thio 2 methoxybenzoic acid 4.0 g 77 as a gum. b 4 Acetylamino 5 ethylthio 2 methoxybenzoic acid D.23 4 Amino 5 ethylthio 2 methoxybenzoic acid 4.0 g, 0.018 mole was dissolved in acetic acid 15 ml , treated with acetic anhydride 2 ml warmed on a water bath for 1 hour and left at ambiant temperatures for 18 hours. The mixture was treated with ice water ca 150 ml to give 4 acetylamino 5 ethylthio 2 methoxybenzoic acid 2.8 g 58 mp. 1340 ex ethylacetate petrol ether 40600 . c 4 Acetvlamino 5 ethylsulphinvl 2 methoxybenzoic acid D,21 A solution of methanol 50 ml and water 50 ml containing sodium metaperiodate 2.38 g was stirred at 5 100 during addition of 4 acetylamino 5 ethylthio 2 methoxybenzoic acid 3.0 g, 0.0112 mole . After a further 4 hours as additional volume of methanol 50 ml was added and the solution was allowed to stir at room temperature for 2 days. The reaction mixture was diluted with water 300 ml and extracted with chloroform 3 x 150ml . The combined extracts were dried Na2S04 filtered and evaporated to give 4 acetylamino 5 ethylsulphinyl 2methoxybenzoic acid 2.2 g 69 as a colourless crystalline solid mp. 171 740 ex ethylacetate ether . Example 1 2 MethoXv 5 methvlsulphinvl N r3ss 8 benzvl 8 azabicvclor3,2, 1 loctvl lbenzamide 1 EMI38.1 2 Methoxy 5 methylsulphinylbenzoic acid 2.8 g, 0.013 mole was dissolved in anhydrous dimethylformamide 30 mls and cooled to 00. Triethylamine 1.32 g was added, followed by dropwise addition of ethyl chloroformate 1.4 g over 15 min. maintaining the temperature at 00. 8 benzyl 8 azabicyclo 3,2, l octyl 3p amine 2.8 g in anhydrous dimethyl formamide 20 ml was added slowly in one portion. After 6 hours the mixture was evaporated in vacuo, the residue treated with water 15 ml chloroform 100 ml and basified with dilute sodium hydroxide 10 ml . The organic layer was separated, dried over sodium sulphate, filtered and evaporated in vacuo.The residue was recrystallised from ethyl acetate to give 2 methoxy 5 methylsulnhinyl N 3ss 8 benzvl 8 azabicyclo 3,2,1 octvl benzamide 3.86 g mp 165OC. 2 methOxy 5 methylsulphinyl N 3 ss 8 p methylbenzyl 8 azabicyclo 3.2. 1 octyl benzamide 5 , 2 methoxy 5 methylsulphinyl N 3 p 8 3 methylbenzyl 8 azabicyclo 3.2.1 octyl benzamide 6 , 2 methOxy 5 methylsulphinyl N 3 ss 8 4 methylpentyl 8 azabicyclo 3.2.1 octyl benzamide 7 , 2 methoxy 5 methylsulphinyl N 3 ss 8 5 methylheXyl 8 azabicyclo 3.2.1 octyl benzamide 8 , and 2 methOxy 5 methylsulphinyl N 3 ss 8 cycloheXylmethyl 8 azabicyclo 3.2.1 octyljbenzamide 9 are prepared analogously. Example 2 4 Amino 2 methoxy 5 methylsulphinyl NA 3 p 81 benzyl 8 azabicyclo 3,2,1 octyl benzamide 2 EMI40.1 4 Acetylamino 2 methoxy 5 methylsulphinyl benzoic acid 0.94 g, 0.0035 mole as prepared in GB 2,013,662A was dissolved in dry dimethylformamide 20 ml containing triethylamine 0.35 g and cooled to OOC. Ethyl chloroformate 0.38 g was added dropwise so that the temperature remained between Oo and 30. 8 Benzyl 8 azabicyclo 3,2,1 octy1 3 amine 0.75 g, 0.0035 mole in dry dimethylformamide 5 ml was added after 10 minutes. The reaction mixture was left for 24 hours, evaporated to dryness, treated with dilute sodium hydroxide 10 ml 10 and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 x 100 ml .The combined organic extracts were dried K2C03 filtered and evaporated to dryness to give 4 acetylamino 2 methoxy 5 methylsulphinyl N 3B 8 benzyl 8 azabicyclo 3,2,1 octyl benzamide as a glass 1.0 g . This glass was treated with ethanol 10 ml and water 1 ml containing 85 potassium hydroxide 0.45 g and warmed to 800 for 2 hours.The mixture was cooled, evaporated to dryness, treated with water 10 ml and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 x 100 ml . The combined organic extracts were dried K2C03 , filtered and evaporated in vacuo.Treatment of the residue with dry ether gave 4 amino 2 methOxy 5 methylsulphinyl N sss 8 benzyl 8 azabicyclo 3,2,1 octyl benzamide 0.55 g, 40 , mp 189 190 containing 20 4 amino 2 methoxy 5 methylsulphonyl N 3 beta 8 benzyl 8 azabicyclo 3,2,1 octyl 1 benzamide. Recrystallisation from ethyl acetate light petroleum ether 40 60 gave the sulphine 0.26 g, 18 , mp 194 195 containing about 10 of the sulphone.Nmr t, CDCl3 2 8.02 s, 1H, aryl 6H 7.6 7.1 m, 6H, Ph H and CONH 6.2 s, 1H, aryl, 3 11 5.71 m, 2H, NH2 4.6 4.1 m, 1H, COMH CH 3.89 s, 3H, OCH3 3.53 s, 2H, PhCH2 Ns i 3.24 3.22 m, 2K, PhCH2 N CHr 2 2.87 s, 3H, CH3SO 2.3 1.4 m, 8H, CH2 . corresponding sulphone 8.60 s, 1H, aryl, 6H 6.17 s, 1H, aryl, 3H 3.84 s, 3H, OCH3 2.98 s, 3H, CH3S02 4 amino 2 methoxy 5 methylsulphinyl N 3 ss 8 p methylbenzyl 8 azabicyclo 3.2.1 octyl benzamide 11 , 4 amino 2 methoxy 5 methyLsulphinyl N 3 8 3 methylbutyl 8 azabicyclop3.2.1 octyl benzamide 12 , 4 amino 2 methoxy 5 methylsulphinyl N 3 ss 8 4X methylpentyl 8 azabicyclo 3.2.1 octyl benzamide 13 , 4 amino 2 methoxy 5 methylsulphinyl N 3 ss 8 5 methylhexyl 8 azabicyclo 3.2.1 octyl benzamide 14 and, 4 amino 2 methoxy 5 methylsulphinyl N 3 ss 8 cyclo heXylmethyl 8 azabicyclo 3.2.1 octyl benzamide 15 are prepared analogously. Example 3 4 Amino 5 ethylsulphinyl 2 methoxy N 3 ss 8 benzyl 8 azabicyclo 3,2,l octyl Jbenzamide 3 EMI43.1 4 AcetylaminÏ 5 ethylsulphinyl 2 methoxy benzoic acid 2.2 g, 0.0077 mole prepared as described inGB 2,013,662A was dissolved in dry dimethylformamide 30 ml containing triethylamine 0.78 g, 1.08 ml and cooled to O . Ethyl chloroformate 0.84 g, 0.75 ml was added dropwise at nO After a further 10 minutes at 0 3 , 8 benzyl 8 azabicyclo 3,2,1 octyl 3 amine 1.67 g was added in dry dimethylformamide 8 ml and the mixture was left to reach ambient temperatures over 24 hours.The mixture was evaporated to dryness, treated with water 10 ml , dilute sodium hydroxide 10 ml, 10 and extracted with chloroform 3 x 100 ml .The combined organic extracts were dried Na2S04 filtered and evaporated to dryness. The residue was chromatographed on Kieselgel 60 with ethyl acetate as eluant to give 4 acetylamino 5 ethylsulphinyl 2 methoxy N 3 8 benzyl 8 azabicyclof3,2,l octyl benzamide 1.86 50 as a foam. Hydrolysis as described in Example 2 gave 4 amino5 ethylsulphinyl 2 methoxy N 3 beta 8 benzyl 8 azabicyclo 3,2,l octyl l benzamide 1.0 g, 29 as colourless microcrystals, mp 169 170 ex ether ethyl acetate. C24H31N302S Observed M 441.2081Calculated M 441.2084. Required C 65.31,H 7.03 N 9.52. Found C 65.06 H 7.32 N 9.58. 4 amino 2 methoxy 5 ethylsulphinyl N 3 p 8 p methylbenzyl 8 azabicyclo 3.2.1 octyl benzamide 16 , 4 amino 2 methoxy 5 ethylsulphinyl N 3 ss 8 3 methylbutyl 8 azabicyclo 3.2.1 octyl benzamide 17 , 4 amino 2 methoxy 5 ethylsulphinyl N 3 beta 8 p 4 methylpentyl 8 azabicyclo 3.2.1 octyl benzamide 18 , 4 amino 2 methoxy 5 ethylsulphinyl N 83 ss 8 5 methyl hexyl 8 azabicyclo 3.2.1 octyl 3benzamide 19 , and 4 amino 2 methoxy 5 ethylsulphinyl N 3 ss 8 cycloheXyl methyl 8 azabicyclo 3.2.1 octyl are prepared analogously. Example 4 4 Acetylamino 2 methoxy 5 methylsulphinyl N 3 S 8 methyl 8 azabicyclo 3,2,1 octyL benazzide 4 EMI46.1 4 Acetylamino 2 methoxy 5 methylsulphinyl benzoic acid 0.63 g, 0.0023 mole was dissolved in dry dimethylformamide 15 ml containing triethylamine 0.23 g, 0.32 ml , cooled to 00, and treated dropwise with ethyl chloroformate 0.25 g, 0.22 ml . After 10 minutes, 8 methyl 8 azabicyclo 3,2,1 octyl 3 beta amine 0.33 g in dry dimethylformamide 5 ml was added and the mixture left 24 hours. The mixture was evaporated to dryness, treated with H20 10 ml , dilute sodium hydroxide 10 ml, 10 and extracted with chloroform 3 x 100 ml . The combined organic extracts were dried K2C03 , filtered and evaporated to dryness.The residue was triturated with dry ether and the resulting colourless microcrystals 0.70 g, 77 , mp 199 2O00C recrystallised from ethylacetate to give 4 acetylamino 2 methoxy 5 methylsulphinyl N 3 beta 8 methyl 8 azabicyclo 3,2,1 octyl benzamide 0.60 g, 66 mp l99 20O0C. C19H27N3O4S . Observed M 393.1729 CalculatedM 393.1722 1H Nmr CDCl3 11.20 m, 1H, NHCOCH3 6, ppm 8.40 s, 1H, aryl 6 H 8.06 s, 1H, aryl 3 H 3.97 s, 3H, OCH3 2.89 s, 3H, CH3 S O 2.29 s, 3H NHCOCH3 and 2.21 s, 3H tN CH3 Pharmacological ActivityAnti emetic Activity in the Dog The compounds were administered subcutaneously 30 minutes prior to administration of a standard dose of apomorphine HC1 0.1 mg kg subcutaneously and the vomiting response compared to that obtained when the same animals were dosed with apomorphine HC1 and vehicle only. The dose that totally inhibited the vomiting response in 50 or more the dogs was determined.EMI48.1 tb SEP Anti emetic SEP Activity tb Compound SEP Active SEP dose SEP mg kg SEP subcutaneously tb SEP 1 SEP 0.1 tb SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 0.002 tb SEP 3 SEP 0.01 tb Activity in excess to that which can be accounted for by the 10 contamination of the corresponding sulphone.Toxicity No toxic effects were observed in the above tests.