# Polyethylene terephthalate blends.

## Abstract
Thermoplastic molding compositions comprising, in intimate admixture, 10 to 90 weight percent of polyester terephthalate and from 90 to 10 percent of a copolymer or a rubber modified copolymer of a vinyl aromatic compound and an α,β unsaturated cyclic imide. These compositions display desirable thermal properties, particularly elevated heat deflection temperatures.

## Claims
Claims 1. A thermoplastic molding composition which comprises, in intimate admixture a a polyethylene terephthalate, and b a copolymer or a rubber modified copolymer of a vinyl aromatic compound and an a unsaturated cyclic imide said composition having a heat deflection temperature of at least about 80 0C. at 264 psi as measured by the ASDI procedure D 648 72. 2. A composition of Claim 1 having a heat deflection temperature of at least about 900C. at 264 psi as measured by the ASTM procedure D 648 72. 3. A composition of Claim 1 wherein b is a copolymer or a rubber modified copolymer of a styrene and maleimide. 4. A composition of Claim 1 wherein b is a copolymer or a rubber modified copolymer of styrene and maleimide. 5. A composition of Claim 1 wherein the relative proportions of a and b fall within the range of from about 10 to about 90 weight percent of a with from about 90 to about 10 weight percent of b , the total of a and b being equal to 100. 6. A composition of Claim 1 wherein the relative proportions of a and b fall within the range of from about 20 to about 80 weight percent of a with from about 80 to about 20 weight percent of b , the total of a and b being euqal to 100. 7. A composition of Claim 1 wherein b is a copolymer and the relative proportions of the vinyl aromatic compound and the imide in said copolymer fall within the range of from about 90 to about 70 weight percent and from 10 to about 30 weight percent respectively. 8. A composition of Claim 1 wherein said polyethylene terephthalate has an intrinsic viscosity of between about 0.5 and 1.2 as measured at 25 C. using 0.25 grams of polyester per 100 ml of a solvent consisting of 60 percent by weight phenol and 40 percent by weight of tetrachloroethane wherein b is a copolymer, and the relative proportions of the vinyl aromatic compound and the imide in said copolymer fall within the range of from about 9C to about 70 weight percent and from about 10 to about 30 weight percent, respectively and wherein said composition has a heat deflection temperature of at least about 900C. at 264 psi as measured by the ASTM procedureD 648 72. 9. A composition of Claim 1 wherein said polyethylene terephthalate has an intrinsic viscosity of between about 0.5 and 1.2 as measured at 250C. using 0.25 grams of polyester per 100 ml of a solvent consisting of 60 percent by weight phenol and 40 percent by weight of tetrachloroethane and wherein b consists essentially of a copolymer of styrene and maleimide having the proportions of about 90 to about 70 weight percent styrene and from about 10 to about 30 percent maleimide. 10. A composition of Claim 1 wherein b is a rubber modified copolymer and contains about 5 25 parts by weight of said cyclic imide, 40 85 parts by weight of said vinyl aroinatic compound and 5 30 parts by weight of the rubber. 11. A composition of Claim 1 wherein said polyethylene terephthalate has an intrinsic viscosity of between about 0.5 and 1.2 as measured at 250C. using 0.25 grams of polyester per 100 ml of a solvent consisting of 60 percent by weight phenol and 40 percent by weight of tetrachloroethane wherein b is a rubber modified copolymer and contains about 5 25 parts by weight of said cyclic imide, 40 85 parts by weight of said vinyl aromatic compound and 5 30 parts by weight of the rubber and wherein said composition has a heat deflection temperature of at least about 900C. at 264 psi as measured by theASTM procedure D 648 72. 12. A composition of Claim 1 wherein said polyethylene terephthalate has an intrinsic viscosity of between about 0.5 and 1.2 as measured at 25 C. using 0.25 grams of polyester per 100 ml of a solvent consisting of 60 percent by weight phenol and 40 percent by weight of tetrachloroethane and wherein b consists essentially of a rubber modified copolymer of styrene and maleimide.

## Description
POLYETHYLENE TEREPHTHALATE BLENDS Polyethylene terephthalate PET has become an important raw material for production of moldings, film and fibers. Preparation of PET is described inter alia in Wninfield et a1 U. S. Patent 2,465,319 and inPengilly, U. S. Patent 3,047,539, and in Kirk Othmer,Encyclopedia of Chemical Technology, Second Edition,Vol. 16, pp. 159 et seq. 1968 , to which reference is made. Many applications for injection and extrusion molded parts require heat resistance, and it is in such applications that PET manifests certain undesirable properties. Unreinforced PET has been of limited interest for making such parts due to its low HDT Heat Deflection Temperature about 75 C. at 264 psi.HDT is a measure of an important thermal property of a thermoplastic material wherein a bar of the material held in flexure under constant load usually at 264 or 66 psi , deforms a specified amount and the temperature at which this specified deformation occurs is the HDT see Billmeyer, Textbook of Polymer Science, p. 112, John Wiley and Sons, Inc. 1962 . The present invention provides a thermoplastic molding composition which comprises an intimate admixture of a a polyethylene terephthalate and b a copolymer of a vinyl aromatic compound and an imide derivative of an ethylenically unsaturated dicarboxylic acid. The blends of this invention have a heat deflection temperature of at least about 8OOC., preferably above about 900C., at 264 psi as measured by the ASTtI procedure D 648 72. In still another preferred embodiment, the copolymer is a copolymer of a styrene, preferably styrene, and maleimide. A further aspect of this invention is that the copolymer may be a rubber modified copolymer. The polyethylene terephthalate used herein is preferably homopolymeric PET. Halogenated PET can also be used and is normally formed by condensation of a mixture of a halogenated, preferably brominated, terephthalic acid e.g. 2,5 dibromoterephthalic acid and 2,3,5, 6 tetrabromoterephthalic acid and terephthalic acid with ethylene glycol. Additionally, the polyethylene. terephthalate used herein can also contain up to 10 mol percent, relative to the acid component, of radicals of other aromatic dicarboxylic acids such as, for example, phthalic acid, isophthalic acid, naphthalene 2,6 dicarboxylic acid, diphenyl 4,4 dicarboxylic acid and the like as well as their halogenated counterparts.The copolymers can also contain up to 10 mol percent, relative to the glycol component, of radicals of other glycols such as, for example, propylene glycol, butylene glycol, dibromoneopentyl glycol, bis 2 hydroxyethyl ether of tetrabromobisphenol A and tetrabromo p xylene glycol. SeeKirk Othmer, Encyclopedia of Chemical Technology,Second Sedition, Vol. 16, pp. 161 173 1968 . The polyethylene terephthalates used herein should be moldable, and in a preferred embodiment they have an intrinsic viscosity I.V. of between about 0.25 and 1.5, most preferably between about 0.5 and 1.2, as measured at 250C. using 0.25 grams of polyester per 100 ml of a solvent consisting of 60 percent by weight phenol and 40 percent by weight of tetrachloroethane. The amount of polyethylene terephthalate resin used in the blends of this invention preferably falls within the range of from about 10 to about 90 weight percent based on the total weight of resin in the blend and the amount of the unsaturated cyclic anhydride copolymer falls within the range of from about 90 to about 10 weight percent also based on the total weight of resin in the blend. In a particularly preferred embodiment the relative amounts of the PET and the copolymer fall within the range of from about 20 to about 80 and from about 80 to about 20 weight percent respectively, the total being equal to 100. Most preferably the amounts used fall within the range of 30 to 70 and from about 70 to 30 weight percent respectively. Vinyl aromatic compounds of component b can be derived from compounds of the formula EMI4.1 where R1 and R2 are selected from the group consisting of lower alkyl groups of from 1 to 6 carbon atoms and hydrogen R3 and R4 are selected from the group consisting of chloro, bromo, hydrogen and lower alkyl of from 1 to 6 carbon atoms R5 and R6 are selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and lower alkyl groups of from 1 to 6 carbon atoms or R5 and R6 may be concatenated together with hydrocarbyl groups to form a naphthyl group. These compounds are free of any substituent that has a tertiary carbon atom. Styrene is the preferred vinyl aromatic compound. The a,5 unsaturated cyclic imides of component b are preferably amine nitrogen derivatives of an ethylenically unsaturated dicarboxylic acid. For example the term cyclic imide identifies imides having the formula EMI5.1 wherein the dotted lines represent a single or a double carbon to carbon bond, R7 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, alkyl or aryl radicals containing up to 8 carbon atoms, R8 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, vinyl, alkyl, alkenyl, alkylcarboxylic or alkenylcarboxylic of from 1 to 12 carbon atoms, R9 is.selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, lower alkyl, cycloalkyl or aryl and n is an integer of from 0 to about 10.Examples include maleimide, methyl maleimide, dimethyl maleimide,N methyl maleimide, phenylmaleimide and mixtures thereof. Maleimide is the preferred cyclic imide of component b . Reference is made to U. S. patent 3,840,499. Copolymers which comprise component b include rubber modified copolymers. In preparing these rubbermodified copolymers use of such rubbers as polybutadiene, an isobutylene isoprene copolymer, a styrene butadiene copolymer, a butadiene copolymer, a butadiene acrylonitrile copolymer, an ethylenepropylene copolymer, a polyisoprene, ethylene propylene diene monomer terpolymers EPDM and the like can be employed. In this connection see U. S. patent 3,998,907. Component b copolymers can comprise from 40 to 5 parts by weignt of the a,8 unsaturated cyclic imide, from 60 to 95 parts by weight of a vinyl aromatic compound and from 0 to 50 parts by weight of rubber.Preferred polymers include those wherein the relative proportions of the vinyl aromatic compound and the imide fall within the range of from about 90 to about 70 weight percent and from about 10 to about 30 weight percent, respectively. Rubber modified polymers used herein preferably contain about 5 to 25 parts by weight of. the a,8 unsaturated cyclic imide, 40 to 85 parts by weight of the vinyl aromatic compound, and from about 5 parts to about 30 parts by weight of rubber. A preferred unmodified vinyl aromatic a,B unsaturated cyclid imide copolymer used in the compositions of this invention is Dylarke DKB 176, supplied by Arco Polymers. Dylarks DKB 176 is described as a styrene maleimide copolymer containing about 17 percent maleimide, the balance being styrene. A preferred rubber modified vinyl aromatic a,ss unsaturated cyclic imide copolymer is Dylarke DKB 162 supplied byArco Polymers. This is described as a styrenemaleimide copolymer containing about 15 percent rubber and about 11 percent maleimide, with the balance being styrene. Compositions of this invention can also include other ingredients, such as flame retardants, extenders, processing aids, pigments, stabilizers and the like, for their conventionally employed purposes. Reinforcing fillers, in amounts sufficient to impart reinforcement, can be used, such as carbon filaments, silicates, such as acicular calcium silicate, asbestos, titanium dioxide, potassium titanate and titanate whiskers, glass flakes and fibers. Particularly preferred compositions of this invention include those containing impact modifiers.Examples include ethylene vinyl acetate copolymers, ethylene acrylic acid copolymers having some of the acid functions neutralized , ethylene methacrylic acid cop o 1 ym e r s having some of the methacrylic acid functions neutralized , ethylene alkyl acrylate methacrylic acid terpolymer also having some of the methacrylic acid functions neutralized ,ABS, oxidized polyethylene, styrene butadiene styrene S B S block copolymers, styrene butadiene multiblock copolymers, styrene butadiene radical block copolymers, hydrogenated S B S block copolymers, styrene butadiene rubber, acrylic rubbers, EPDM, ethylene acrylic acid copolymers, ethylene methyl acrylate copolymers, ethylene ethyl acrylate copolymers, polyester ether multiblock copolymers, and the like.These materials are available in a wide range of molecular weights and it is generally desirable that the impact modifier, when used, has a melt viscosity close to that of the substrate. Amounts of impact modifiers generally fall within the range of from about 5 to about 40 percent by weight. For protection against thermo oxidative degradation, the customary amounts of stabilizers, preferably 0.001 to 0.5 percent by weight, relative to the unfilled and unreinforced compositions of this invention, can be added to the compositions according to the invention.Examples of suitable stabilizers are phenols and phenol derivatives, preferably sterically hindered phenols which contain alkyl substituents with 1 6 carbon atoms in the two positions ortho to the phenolic hydroxyl groups, amines, preferably secondary arylamines and their derivatives, phosphates and phosphites, preferably the aryl derivatives thereof and quinones.Nonlimiting examples include 4,4 bis 2,6 di tert butylphenol , l,3,5 trimethyl 2,4,6 tris 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxybenzyl benzene, 4,4 butylidene bis 6 tert butyl m cresol , 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxybenzylphosphonic acid diethyl ester, N,N bis B naphthyl p phenylenediamine, N,N bis 1 methyl heptyl p phenylene diamine, phenyl ss naphthylamine, 4,4 bis a,a dimethyl benzyl diphenylamine, hydroquinone, p benzoquinone, toluhydroquinone, p tert butylpyrocatechol, chloranil and naphthoquinone. Flame retarding additives which can be used for the compositions according to the invention comprise a large number of chemical compounds which are well known to those skilled in the art. In general, they contain chemical elements which are used because of their flameretarding capacity, for example bromine, chlorine, antimony, phosphorus and nitrogen. Preferably, the flame retarding additives are bromine and or chlorine containing organic compounds optionally used together with auxiliary compounds sometimes referred to as synergists, such as antimony trioxide, zinc borate, etc. or elementary phosphorus or phosphorus compounds such as ammonium polyphosphate, various bromine and or chlorine containing organic phosphate esters, hexaphenoxyphosphazene, and the like. Preferred reinforcing fillers are glass fiber, mineral fillers, particulate fillers such as mica and the like. In general, optimum physical properties can be obtained if glass filaments are employed in amounts of from about 5 to about 40 percent by weight, based on the combined weight of glass and resin. However, higher amounts can be used. Compositions of the invention may be prepared by blending the components in a mixer e.g. a Henschel mixer and compounding the mixture on an extruder e.g. a twin screw 28 mm Werner Pfleiderer extruder . Thereafter, the extrudate is chopped into pellets and molded on an injection molding machine. The present invention is further illustrated in the following examples, which are not to be construed as limiting. All parts are by weight. Examples 1 3 Compositions of the following Examples were prepared by mixing the components to form a premix, compounding the premix on a screw extruder at temperatures of about 5250 to 5500 F. 2740 to 2880 C. and molding the pellets into test bars on a New Britain injection molding machine. The particular material used in these compositions were as follows a. Polyethylene terephthalate from Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company VFR 2977A crystalline PET having an intrinsic viscosity of 0.68 0.025 as measured at 250 C. using 0.25 grams of polyester per 100 ml of a solvent consisting of 60 percent by weight phenol and 40 percent by weight of tetrachloroethane. b. Rubber modified styrene maleimide copolymer from Arco Polymers Dylarke DKB 162 a rubber modified styrene maleimide copolymer containing 11 percent maleimide, 15 percent rubber, the balance being styrene. c. Styrene maleimide copolymer from Arco Polymers Dylarke DKB 176 containing 17 percent maleimide, the balance being styrene. The following tabulation shows the makeup of the blends in parts or weight percentages Example Components 1 2 2 3 a. PET 60 70 60 b. Rubber Modified Styrene Maleimide 40 None None c. Styrene Maleimide None 30 40 Test bars of the above compositions were tested according to ASTM procedures to evaluate physical properties. The ASTM designation numbers for the properties measured were as follows SpecificGravity D 792 66 1975 Tensile Yield, Elongation and Tensile Elastic Modulus D 638 77a FlexuralStrength and Flexural Elastic Modulus D 790 71 1978 Izod Impact for 1 417 bar and 1 8 bar at 400C. D 256 78 Heat Deflection Temperature D 648 72 1978 Vicat Softening Point D 1525 76 and Rockwell Hardness D 785 65 1976 . The results are shown in Table I. Table I Example Property 1 2 3Specific Gravity 1.234 1.273 1.265Tensile Yield, psi 6720 4340 5150Elongation, 2.3 0.8 1.2Tensile Elastic Modulus, 410 524 429 10 psiFlexural Strength, psi 11,600 9,800 9,240Flexural Elastic Modulus, 418 529 497 103 psiIzod Impact, 1 4 bar, 0.4 0.2 0.3 ft. lb. in.Izod Impact, 1 8 bar, 0.4 0.2 0.3 ft. lb. in. Izod Impact, 1 8 bar, 0.4 0.2 0.2 ft. lb. in. at 400C. Table I Cont d Example Property 2 3 Heat Deflection Temp. 93 98 101 at 264 psi, C. Heat Deflection Temp. 131 154 145 at 66 psi, C. ViOat Softening Point, 220 226 207 . Rockwell Hardness, 116 122 121 R scale Comparative Example PET having an intrinsic viscosity of 0.59 as measured at 25 C. using 0.25 grams of polyester per 100 ml of a solvent consisting of 60 percent by weight phenol and 40 percent by weight of tetrachloroethane was molded in the manner outlined in Examples 1 3.Physical property testing in accordance with the ASTM procedures of Examples 1 3 showed the neat PET to have a HDT of 760C. at 264 psi, a HDT of 1040C. at 66 psi, a 1 8 notched Izod Impact of 0.6 ft. lb. in., a flexural strength of 15,200 psi and a flexural modulus of 400,000 psi. Example 4 Using the PET and rubber modified maleimide copolymer as well as the blending and molding procedures of Example 1, test bars were made from a blend composed of 30 parts of the maleimide copolymer and 70 parts of the PET. Table II lists typical properties of these test specimens. Table IIFlexural Strength, psi 12,000Flexural Elastic Modulus, 103 psi 419Izod Impact, 1 8 bar, ft. lb. in. 0.5Heat Deflection Temp. at 264 psi, OC. 86Heat Deflection Temp. at 66 psi, OC. 124 Examples 5 8 Four blends of this invention were prepared by extrusion compounding using an NRM extruder equipped with screen packs. Two of the blends were made by compounding the PET and maleimide copolymer in one pass through the extruder. The other two blends involved two passes through the extruder. The PET used in these blends was obtained from American Hoechst Corporation and had an average intrinsic viscosity of about 0.6, a TiO2 content of about 0.3 weight percent and a Gardner yellowness index of 12. It was normal fiber grade product. The maleimide copolymer used was the same rubbermodified product as used in Example 1. The ensuing tabulation identifies the blends, and Table III sets forth illustrative properties of test specimens molded therefrom. Blend Identification Parts of Maleimide ligature of Example Copolymer Extruder Compounding 5 30 One Pass 6 45 One Pass 7 30 Two Passes 8 45 Two Passes Table III Properties of the Blends Example 5 . 6 7 8Flexural Strength, psi 7930 8340 7560 7880Flexural Elastic Modulus, 417 407. 413 409 103 psiIzod Impact, 1 8 bar, 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.3 ft. lb. in.Heat Deflection Temp. 90 103 86.3 93 at 264 psi, C.Heat Deflection Temp. 130 134 136.8 132 at 66 psi, C. Various modifications of the invention are possible without departing from the scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.