# Dual alloy turbine wheel.

## Abstract
A dual alloy turbine wheel manufacture of a cast integral blade ring 10 pressure sealed to a wrought alloy hub 14 and thereafter bonded thereto by hot isostatic pressing.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method for manufacturing a dual alloy turbine wheel having an integral blade ring of a superalloy of high creep rupture strength at temperatures up to about 982 0C 18000F , and a wrought superalloy hub of high tensile strength and highly resistant to low cycle fatique at tensile stress of at least 150,000 psi 105 MKg m2 , comprising the steps of a preforming said integral blade ring and said hub with said hub ID internal diameter shaped to receive the outer circumferential surface of said ring in near full surface area contact at the ring hub surface interface b sealing said ring hub interface area with a pair of relatively thin section temperature resistant plate members and c subjecting said sealed ring hub assemblage to hot isostatic pressing to effect bonding of said ring to said hub. 2. The method of Claim 1 wherein said ring hub interface area is sealed by electron beam welding followed by brazing. 3. The method of Claim 1, wherein said ring hub interface is pre assembled prior to hot isostatic pressing with said plate members covering the exposed portion of said ring hub interface, and said plate members affixed to said assemblage by first electron beam welding said plate members to said hub, and thereafter sealing said interface by applying a braze bead between said plate members and said ring by activated diffusion bonding. 4. The method of Claim 1 wherein said hot isostatic pressing is conducted in an autoclave maintained at from 11210C 20500F to 1232 0C 225O0F under 15 KSI pressure for 3 to 4 hours 5. The method of Claim 1 wherein said hot isostatically pressed dual alloy turbine wheel is solution annealed, thermally stabilised, and t.rta1ly aged. 6. The method of Claim 1 wherein said hot hub and ring alloys are nickel base gara prime strengthened alloys. 7. The method of Claim 1 wherein said hub member is preformed by forging. 8. The method of Claim 1, wherein said hub member is formed of a loose un consclidated alloy powder which is consolidated by saic hot isostatic pressing treatment. 9. A dual alloy turbine wheel having an integral blade ring of an alloy of high creep rupture strength at temperatures up to about 982 C 1800 F and hub of an alloy of high tensile strength and highly resistant to low cycle fatigue at tensile stress of at least 150,000 psi 105 MKg 2 wherein such wheel is bonded by preforming said ring and said hub with hub ID shaped to receive the outer circumferential surface of said ring in near fll surface area contact, and sealing said ring hub interface with a relatively thin section alloy member by electron beam welding and activated bond brazing said members to said ring and hub and said sealed assemblage being subjected to hot isostatic pressing. 10. The dual alloy turbine wheel of Claim 8, wherein said ring is a cast nickel base superalloy containing a relatively high proportion of gamma prime forming elements and said hub is a wrought nickel base superalloy of a lower proportion of gamma prime forming elements.

## Description
DUAL ALLOY TURBINE WHEEL Dual alloy turbine wheels or dual property turbine disc have some limited use at the present time and are extremely attractive for future use in high performance commercial aircraft engine design. Single alloy turbine discs which are used predominantly in current technology commercial aircraft engines, are forged from vacuum melted ingots or are consolidated by various means from pre alloyed powders. Such a single alloy must satisfy requirements in both the hub and the rim areas of the turbine disc which requirements are sometimes in conflict. The two extremes in single alloy turbine engine discs today are the forged disc used in commercial and general aviation turbofan engines and the cast integral turbine wheel typically used in small turbo prop turbo shaft engines and auxiliary power units.The forged alloys used today will typically have superior tensile and low cycle fatique LCF properties, but quite limited creep rupture strength while the cast wheel alloys will have the reversed properties, i.e. excellent creep rupture strength but relatively poor tensile and LCF properties. Modern turbofan engines, developing a thrust from 3,000 to 55,000 pounds 1350 to 24750Kg and having cooled separately bladed turbine discs require a turbine disc hub having maximised tensile strength in order to provide a satisfactory burst margin. The hub area must also have maximised resistance to low cycle fatigue LCF cracking and crack propagation in order to ensure long turbine disc life.The hub area must also have good notch ductility to minimise the harmful effects of stress concentrations, either inherent in the design or induced by undetected flaws in critical regions. In general, all the desirable qualities for disc hubs are associated with tough, fine grained, highly alloyed materials. In contract to the hub, tensile stress levels are lower in the ring or rim of a well designed turbine disc, but operating temperatures are higher and creep resistance becomes an important consideration. With the current single alloy disc design philosophy, used for modern commercial aircraft and general aviation engines, the material is chosen primarily to satisfy hub requirements and sufficient cooling air is supplied to the rim to lower its temperature to the level, typically about 600 700CC where creep strength of the material is not limiting.If temperatures and stresses rise to levels where creep strength becomes limiting in the rims, large grained alloys with adequate creep resistance are employed, but the wheel size and weight are increased, since the large grained creep resistance micro structures have inferior tensile properties to fine grained material. Hence, from the above, it is readily apparent that a dual property turbine disc becomes quite attractive as optimum properties in each area of the disc will allow the cooling air requirements for the disc to be minimised or eliminated, with resulting improvement in engine operating efficiency. In addition, lighter weight turbine discs, would be possible with a favourable impact on total aircraft performance. A dual alloy turbine disc which provides optimum properties for both the rim and the hub locations, will also permit superior low cycle fatigue cracking resistance in each area and will contribute to long life components that will reduce repair costs. The dual alloy turbine disc concept is desirable for both separately bladed disc designs and also integrally bladed turbine stages as used in small aircraft engines, which are currently made from a single piece casting. These small gas turbine engines are presently used in executive and business jet turboprop applications but are also receiving consideration for replacement of the current reciprocating engines used in the general aviation market. The dual property turbine disc concept has 2 major variations the first involving the use of a single alloy processed differently in the hub and the rim areas. For example, some manufacturers overspeed disc sufficiently to cause plastic flow in the hub which pre stresses the hub in compression, thus reducing its tensile stresses in normal service. The second major variation of the dual property turbine disc is the dual alloy turbine wheel which utilises two distinct alloys with dissimilar properties as required for the rim and the hub area, with an adequate and reliable process to join the dissimilar alloys. The dual alloy turbine wheel concept has been used in the 1950 s in connection with military engines which utilised AISI Type 4340 alloy steel hubs fusion welded to Timken 16 25 6 warm worked stainless steel rims.This particular combination was used because the alloys could be fusion welded to yield joints of adequate strength and freedom from defects which performed well in service. The advent of stronger alloys, however, made the fusion welding approach obsolete as the more complex alloys could not be fusion welded in typical disc thicknesses without cracking. Dissimilar metals may also be welded by the inertia welding process and this process has found use in the joining of axial flow compressor discs into spools and in the joining of dissimilar metal shafts and turbine wheels. However, the inertiawelding process has an inherent size limiation in that the largest existing inertia welding machines are only capable of welding joints in nickel base alloys which are a few square inches in cross section.Hence, this limitation prevents the use of the process in all but the smallest turbine discs. The bonding of dissimilar metals by hot isostatic pressing HIP has been suggested in respect to dual alloy turbine wheels since this process does not have the inherent joint size limitation of the inertiawelding process. Hot isostatic pressing is a process developed at Batelle in the United States of America, in which the pressure is applied equally in all directions multi directionally through an inert argon gas in a certified pressure vessel, e.g. an autoclave. The principal limitations for HIP bonding presently are not completely defined, although the size of the available HIP autoclave may be a limitation in local areas where HIP autoclaves are not available. The Ewing, et al Patent No. 4,152,816, discloses a method for manufacturing a turbine wheel from dissimilar metals by bonding two dissimilar alloy materials by hot isostatic pressure. The Ewing et al method utilizes a brazing alloy to seal the disc and rim prior to hot isostatic pressing. Any discontinuity of flaws in such brazing, however, will prevent a metallurgically sound bond between dissimilar disc and rim. The Catlin Patent U.S. No. 3,940,268, also shows a method for bonding dissimilar alloy parts by hot isostatic pressing, or vacuum hot pressing and use a fixture device to hold the separately manufactured blades in a powder filled mould during the HIP processing. It is an object of the present invention to use a relatively simple one piece blade ring which can be metallurgically bonded to a hub of a dissimilar metal by hot isostatic pressing. It is also an object of the present invention to preassemble the ring and the hub which are of dissimilar metals, in such a manner as to effect a positive seal for the interface between the two dissimilar metals. Our present invention involves the improvement of a dual alloy turbine wheel manufacture whereby a bladed ring of high creep resistant material, such as MAR M247, IN 100 or other large grained supperalloys, is integrally bonded to a hub of high tensile strength material such as Astroloy PM, Rend 95, or other fine grained alloys, by hot isostatic bonding HIP In accordance with our invention, a blade ring having the blades either cast integrally with the ring or affixed to the ring by a prior art technique, is bonded by hot isostatic pressing to a hub member which is either forged, a pre consolidated alloy powder metal or loose unconsolidated alloy powder metal of material such as Rene 95 or Astroloy PM. In order to obtain a metallurgically sound weld or bond between the dissimilar metals, it is necessary to have the outer perimeter of the surfaces to be bonded, sealed during hot isostatic pressing in aHIP autoclave, so that the adjoining surfaces will be subject to the autoclave pressure and temperature to effect the desired bond. This sealing is accomplished by several means according to different prior art techniques, the only completely effective method being to can the entire assembly. In accordance with our present invention, however, we have discovered a technique for bonding a dual alloy turbine wheel in which the outer blade ring is pre assembled to the hub without canning the entire assembly, but yet which attains an effective seal to obtain a metallurgically sound bond in the HIP autoclave. In accordance with our invention, a hub member is inserted into the bore cavity machined in a blade ring and a plate is then electron beam welded and subsequently brazed to the hub and the ring to seal the hub inside the blade ring cavity. After hot isostatic pressing to bond the hub to the blade ring, the plate may be removed and the turbine wheel finish machined. Our invention will be described herein in reference to several related embodiments of the invention, which are illustrated in the attached drawings, wherein FIGURE 1 is a cross sectional view of a dual alloy axial wheel assembled for HIP bonding in accordance with our present invention FIGURE 2 is a cross sectional view of a dual alloy radial flow wheel assembled preparatory toHIP bonding in accordance with our present invention FIGURE 3 is a cross sectional view of a dual alloy radial flow wheel with a stub shaft hub, assembled preparatory to HIP bonding in accordance with our present invention FIGURE 4 is a photograph of a partial crosssectional of a dual alloy axial turbine wheel HIP bonded in accordance with our present invention FIGURE 5 is a photograph of a partial crosssection of a radial flow turbine wheel HIP bonded in accordance with our present invention FIGURE 6 is a photomacrograph at 2X of the HIP bonded dual alloy ring hub bond joint, shown inFIGURE 5 FIGURE 7 is a photomicrograph at 400X of the dual alloy HIP bonded joint shown in FIGURES 5 and 6 FIGURE 8 is a photomicrograph at lOOX of the dual alloy HIP bonded axial wheel ring hub joint, shown in FIGURE 4 and FIGURE 9 is a photomicrograph at 400X of the dual alloy HIP bonded axial wheel ring hub bond joint shown in FIGURES 8 and 4. The dual alloy turbine disc concept may be applied both to separately bladed disc designs and integrally bladed turbine disc wherein the blade and the ring are made from a single member. The integrally bladed turbine stages are used most often in small gas turbine engines for executive and business jet turbo prop applications. The blade and ring portion of the turbine wheel which requires a high stress rupture strength, i.e. creep resistance, is most commonly cast from such nickel base superalloys as Inco 713LC and MAR M247. The hub portion is most generally a wrought member, either forged or compacted from loose pre alloyed powder or preconsolidated powder, of such alloys as AstroloyPM, Rene 95 and the like, the latter of which are both formed and bonded in the hot isostatic pressing process.Relative small metal movement will occur during HIP bonding with solid pieces, while loose powders will deform non uniformly in complex configurations by 30 to 40 The development of powder metallurgical techniques, particularly the argon atomisation of nickel base superalloys into powders has led to the common use of powder metallurgical techniques for turbine hubs.According to this technology, a large powder atomiser consisting basically of a vacuum induction melting furnace, is physically located on top of a large vertical tank. After melting of the alloy to the proper chemistry, the melting chamber is pressurised to atmospheric pressure with argon gas, an interlock valve is opened, and the molten metal poured from the inductionfurnace into an atomising unit. The stream of molten alloy is broken in the atomising unit into myriads of tiny droplets that solidify into powder particles and are collected in the bottom of the vertical tank. The powders are then screened, classified, and blended into a large master blend, the chemistry of which becomes the master heat chemistry of the powder.The consolidation of the powder after its manufacture is accomplished either by extrusion or by hot isostatic pressing, which may or may not be followed by forging. The mechanism whereby hot isostatic processing consolidates loose metal powders, is basically that of pressing extremely clean surfaces together at pressures greatly in excess of the flow stress of the metals of the HIP temperature. The powders sequentially densify, bond, and plastically flow until consolidation occurs. HIP bonding of nickel alloys may be accomplished by three techniques 1. solid to solid 2. solid to powder 3. powder to powder Techniques 1 and 2 are particularly useful in accordance with our present invention. The dual alloy radial turbine wheel shown in FIGURE 2 exemplifies a bond of a solid Astroloy hub forging to a solid Inco 713LC blade ring casting. The dual alloy axial turbine wheel shown in FIGURE 4 has a solid MAR M247 cast ring bonded to a consolidatedPM Rene 95 hub. Generally, it has been found that the same range of HIP parameters used to consolidate powders of the nickel base superalloys will also produce sound bonds. Typically, the appropriateHIP temperatures are 11800C to 12300C 20500F to 22500F at 15 KSI 72.4 MN rn2 for three to four hours. The main processes for producing as HIP shapes, involve the use of either metal or ceramic shaped container. In general, the metal can process is less expensive and complicated than the ceramic can process, although the latter has the advantage of producing more complex shapes. The greatest problem encountered with HIP consolidation of superalloy parts, has been the defects associated with can leakage during hot isostatic pressing. Such leakage results in a spongy, non consolidated part. In reference to the drawings, FIGURE 1 shows an wheel arranged for HIP bonding in accordance with our present invention. Axial flow turbine ring 10 is a casting of IN 100 nickel base alloy with the blades 12 cast integrally with the ring 10. A hub preform 14 is machined from previously HIP densified logs cylinders and inserted into the cavity 13 machined in wheel 10. A plate 16 is then electron beam welded to the ring 10 and electron beam weld spikes 11 affix the plate 16 to the ring hub assemblage, after which the outer circumference of the plate 16 is brazed to the lip area 15 of the ring, by activated diffusion bonding, to seal the preformed hub in the ring cavity.Activated diffusion bonding is described in theNovember 1970 Welding Research Supplement of theWelding Journal of the American Welding Society at pp 505 S to509 S by George Hoppin, III and T.F. Berry.The hot isostatic pressing process then metallurgically bonds the outer surface area of the preformed hub 14 to the inner surface of ring 10 and the dual alloy wheel may then be finish machined to remove the plate 16 and finish the wheel to specification. An alloy plate 16 is similarly affixed to the opposite end of the ring bore 13 to seal the back side of the ring hub interface for bonding. The soundness of the bonded joint shown inFIGURE 1 was determined by non destructive inspection NDI and the joint efficiency confirmed by microstructural analysis and mechanical property testing. FIGURES 4 9 are actual photographs of HIP bonded dual alloy joints showing the integrity of dual alloy bonds preformed in accordance with our present invention. FIGURE 2 shows the assembly arrangement used to bond a dual alloy radial wheel, with an integrally cast radial ring 20 machined to receive a radial hub preform 22 which may be either a forging, loose powder, or a pre consolidated powder alloy hub. A sealing plate 24 of a compatible alloy, i.e. Inco 625 is first electron beam welded to the hub preform 22 and then brazed to the blade ring at 26, by activated diffusion bondings. The electron beam weld spikes are shown at 28 and the braze bead at 26.A smaller alloy plate 25 is electron beam welded andADB brazed to the small bore of the wheel ring 20 to seal the back side of the ing hub interface 27. FIGURE 3 shows a dual alloy radial wheel assembled for HIP bonding with a shaped can 30 utilised to contain the stub shaft 32 of the backside of the wheel. The cast radial ring 34 is premachined to receive the hub preform 36 made of a preconsolidated Astroloy PM powder. The shaped can 30 seals the ring hug interface by electron beam welding to the blade ring 34 with the electron beam weld spikes 38 and then ADP brazed at 39. An alloy plate 41 is electron beam welded and ADB brazed to the other end of the radial ring bore to seal the other end of the ring hub interface. The assemblies shown in FIGURES 1 5 were subjected to hot isostatic pressing in an industrial autoclave operated within the temperature and pressure parameters given above. The efficiency of the ring to hub bond joint was tested by NDI non destructive inspection , tensile testing at 240C 750F and at 6500C 12000F , stress rupture testing, LCF low cycle fatigue testing at 24 OC 750F and 5380C lOO00F fractography and microscopic examination. In respect to FIGURE 1, the hub preform was Astroloy, the cast ring IN 100 and the plates 16 and 16 Inconel 625. FIGURE 4 is a photograph of a dual alloy wheel cross sectioned after HIP processing, showing an axial turbine wheel which was pre assembled forHIP bonding in accordance with the arrangement shown in FIGURE 1. FIGURE 5 is a photograph of a dual alloy wheel cross sectioned after HIP bonding, showing a dual alloy radial wheel which was pre assembled as shown in FIGURE 2. FIGURE 8 is a photomicrograph of the HIP bonded joint of the dual alloy axial turbine wheel shown inFIGURE 4, with the large grained ring shown at the top portion 52 of the figure being of cast MAR M 247 andHIP consolidated RENE 95 hub having finer grains, shown in the lower half 54 of the photograph. FIGURE 9 shows the same joint as is shown inFIGURE 8 at higher magnification, i.e. 400X showing the diffusion across the bond joint 56. As can be seen from these photomicrographs, the HIP induced bond is metallurgically sound with evidence of diffusion through the bond interface. FIGURE 6 is a photomacrograph of the HIP bonded joint of the dual alloy radial turbine wheel shown in FIGURE 5 with the larger grained radial wheel ring shown in the top portion 62 of the photograph of the bond interface 64 and the fine grained hub shown on the lower portion 66 of the photomacrograph. The ring portion 62 of the bond shown in FIGURE 6 isINCO 713 LC alloy and the fine grained hub portion 66 of the photo is forged Astroloy. FIGURE 7 is a photomicrograph at 400X of the bond interface shown in FIGURE 6, further illustrating the metallurgical soundness of the dual alloy HIP bonded wheel. Tensile bar test specimens were cut from the axial wheel shown in FIGURE 4 and the radial wheel shown in FIGURE 5 in such a manner that the bond interface lines were located in the gauge length centers. These, test bars were then subjected to tensile testings and in the test the specimens from both wheels, the tensile bars failed in the cast materials rather than at the bond line. Stress rupture test bars were also cut from the axial wheel and subjected to stress rupture test and the test bar. specimen from the axial wheel shown inFIGURE 4 failed in the RENE 95 hub portion after over 500 hours at 760 C and 85 KSI 586 MN N2 stress.The alloys employed in the turbine wheels to which our present invention is directed are known metallurgically as superalloys , i.e. alloys capable of operating under stress at a temperature in excess of 5380C 1000 F . Many, but not all, of the superalloys are nickel base gamma prime strengthened alloys. The ring portion which is most commonly integrally cast with the blades, is à castable alloy of high gamma prime forming elements and having high creep rupture strength. MAR M 247 is a preferred ring alloy which has shown excellent high temperature properties up to 982 0c 18000F and may be used in the as HIP plus heat treated form.Cast MAR M 247 has good stress rupture strength for turbine blades and has beer. used for integral turbine wheels. The INCO alloys IN 713 LC, In 100, IN 792 and IN 738 and MAR M 200 are also alloys useful in connection with the integral cast ring component of our present invention. The hub portion of the turbine wheel of the present invention is a wrought alloy, forged rolled extruded, extruded from alloy powder, either pre consolidated prior to IP bonding or consolidated by the HIP bondingsprocess. The preferred alloys for the hub have lower gamma prime forming elements and develop higher tensile strength as required in the wheel hub. RENE 95 which is a well know nickel base alloy developed byGeneral Electric Co., Astroloy PM which is a product of The Special Metals Company, IN 718, and Waspaloy are wrought alloys of the type which are suitable for the hub of our dual alloy wheel. PM RENE 95 is an ultra high strength disc alloy, originally developed by General Electric Co., as a conventional forged alloy, but was later developed as a PM alloy. The chemical compositions of the various alloys discussed herein, are shown in Table I. The properties of these alloys are published in the technical literature, e.g. the widely distributed booklet Nickel Base Alloys 3rd Edition, July, 1977, published by The International Nickel Company, Inc. A first stage turbine wheel ring from a Garrett TPE331 turboprop engine, was cast from DS MAR M 247 alloy and HIP bonded to a PM RENE 95 hub in accordance with the method of our present invention and the HIP dual alloy wheel solution annealed at 11490C 2lOO0F for 2 hours, air cooled, and stabilised at 8710C 16O00F for four hours and then aged for 12 hours at6490C 12000F , air cooled. Several mechanical test specimens were machined from the hub portion, the blade ring portion and across the bond joint and subjected to mechanical testing at room temperature 24 C 75 F , 649 C 1200 F and 760 C 1400 F . The results of these tests are shown in Table II in respect to specimen A .Three additional dual alloy wheels of the same alloys, were assembled and HIP bonded in an identical manner, however the as HIP bonded dual alloy wheel was not solution annealed after HIP bonding. These latter three wheels were stabilised at 8710C l6000F for 8 hours, air cooled and then aged for 16 hours at 760 C 1400 F air cooled. The results of these tests are shown in Table II as specimen B . As may be seen from the results in Table II in respect to the solution annealed specimens A , none of the bond joint specimens ruptured in the bond joint and the mechanical properties were equivalent to typical parent metal properties. It should be noted, however, that the B specimens tended to fail either in or closely adjacent to the bond joints which tends to show the importance of solution annealing.The tensile and yield strength of the bond joints of the B specimens were stmilar to the tA specimen results, however, the ductilities were lower. The bond HIP joint requirement would be anticipated to be such that the joint could operate at 482 0C 9000F with a maximum combined stress of 60 KSI. It has been found from the above test that the hub tensile strength is at least 50 greater than cast monolithic bAR M 247 and the weakest bond joint yield joint is tw ce as high as the operating stress in respect tc the dual alloy wheel in which an integrally cast R M 247, blade ring is bonded to a RENE 95 PM hub.The nature of both alloys is such that the stress rupture failures would never occur at 4820C 900 F 60 KS. The low tensile ductility of the bond joint could tend to reduce LCF low cycle fatique life at higher stresses than 60 KSI but should not be a concern at the joint operating temperature and stress of 900 F 60 KSI 4820C 291 MN, m2 While our invention has been described herein with reference to certain specific embodiments, it is to be understood that the scope of our invention should not be limited to such embodiments but rather should be afforded the full scope of the appended claims. TABLE I ALLOY CHEMICAL COMPOSITIONS WEIGHT PERCENT EMI18.1 Alloy SEP Common tb Name SEP C SEP Cr SEP Ni SEP Co SEP Mo SEP W SEP Ta SEP Cb SEP Hf SEP Fe SEP Ti SEP Al SEP B SEP Zr SEP Other tb Ring SEP cast tb IN SEP 713LC SEP 0.05 SEP 12.0 SEP 75 SEP SEP 4.5 SEP SEP SEP 2.0 SEP SEP SEP 0.6 SEP 5.9 SEP 0.010 SEP 0.10 SEP IN SEP 100 SEP 0.18 SEP 10.0 SEP 60 SEP 15.0 SEP 3.0 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 4.7 SEP 5.5 SEP 0.014 SEP 0.06 SEP 1.0V tb IN SEP 792 SEP 0.12 SEP 12.4 SEP 61 SEP 9.0 SEP 1.9 SEP 3.8 SEP 3.9 SEP SEP SEP SEP 4.5 SEP 3.1 SEP 0.020 SEP 0.10 SEP IN SEP 738 SEP 0.17 SEP 16.0 SEP 61 SEP 8.5 SEP 1.7 SEP 2.6 SEP 1.7 SEP 0.9 SEP SEP SEP 3.4 SEP 3.4 SEP 0.010 SEP 0.10 SEP MAR M SEP 247 SEP 0.16 SEP 8.2 SEP 60 SEP 10.0 SEP 0.6 SEP 10.0 SEP 3.0 SEP SEP 1.5 SEP SEP 1.0 SEP 5.5 SEP 0.020 SEP 0.09 SEP MAR M SEP 200 SEP 0.15 SEP 9.0 SEP 60 SEP 10.0 SEP SEP 12.0 SEP SEP 1.0 SEP SEP SEP 2.0 SEP 5.0 SEP 0.015 SEP 0.05 SEP Hub SEP wrought tb IN SEP 718 SEP 0.04 SEP 18.6 SEP Bal SEP SEP 3.1 SEP SEP SEP 5.0 SEP SEP 18.5 SEP 0.9 SEP 0.4 SEP SEP SEP Waspoloy SEP 0.08 SEP 19.5 SEP Bal SEP 13.5 SEP 4.3 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 3.0 SEP 1.3 SEP 0.006 SEP 0.06 SEP Rene SEP 95 SEP 0.06 SEP 13.0 SEP Bal SEP 8.0 SEP 3.5 SEP 3.5 SEP SEP 3.5 SEP SEP SEP 3.5 SEP 2.5 SEP 0.010 SEP 0.05 SEP Astroloy SEP 0.08 SEP 15.0 SEP Bal SEP 15.0 SEP 5.3 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 3.5 SEP 4.4 SEP 0.030 SEP SEP TABLE IIMECHANICAL PROPERTIES OF MAR M247 RENE 95 PM DUAL ALLOY WHEELSEMI19.1 SEP TEMP SEP LOCATION SEP Specimens SEP .2 SEP ys SEP UTS SEP e SEP RA tb F SEP Ksi SEP ksi SEP SEP tb MN SEP m2 SEP MN SEP m2 tb 75 SEP BOND SEP JOINT SEP A SEP 116.2 SEP 125.0 SEP 7.2 SEP 21.4 tb SEP 801.1 SEP 930.7 tb SEP 24 C SEP 109.9 SEP 116.5 SEP 7.8 SEP 23.5 tb SEP 757.7 SEP 803.1 tb SEP SEP 124.8 SEP 5.1 SEP 16.0 tb SEP B SEP 118.9 SEP 126.3 SEP 2.2 SEP 6.4 tb SEP 819.7 SEP 870.7 tb SEP 116.2 SEP 116.6 SEP 4.9 SEP 9.0 tb SEP 801.1 SEP 827.8 tb SEP RENE SEP 95 SEP PM SEP A SEP J SEP 163.8 SEP 220.8 SEP 10.2 SEP 20.2 tb SEP 1129 SEP 1522.2 tb SEP 163.1 SEP 220.3 SEP 12.1 SEP 20.5 tb SEP 1124.4 SEP 1519 . tb SEP SEP B SEP J SEP 136.5 SEP 200.7 SEP 14.4 SEP 18.5 tb SEP 661.6 SEP 1384 tb 138.3 SEP 204.7 SEP 14.6 SEP 20.4 tb SEP 670.3 SEP 1411 tb SEP tb MAR M 247 SEP Handbook SEP 118 SEP 140 SEP 7 SEP TYP SEP 813.5 SEP 965,1 tb HENE SEP 95 SEP PM SEP Dara SEP 140 SEP 205 SEP 14 SEP 20 tb SEP TYP SEP 965.2 SEP 1413 tb SEP tb SEP 1200 SEP BOND SEP JOINT SEP A SEP J SEP 103.9 SEP 107.0 SEP 4.8 SEP 10.9 tb SEP 716.3 SEP 737.6 tb SEP 99.2 SEP 105.4 SEP 8.7 SEP 17.4 tb 1149 C SEP 683.3 SEP 726.6 tb SEP SEP B SEP J SEP 117.1 SEP 121.9 SEP 1,3 SEP 2.7 tb SEP 807.3 SEP 840.4 tb SEP 114.2 SEP 118.4 SEP 0.9 SEP 3.0 tb SEP 787.3 SEP 816.2 tb SEP tb RENE SEP 95 SEP PM SEP A SEP J SEP 142.5 SEP 204.8 SEP 10.4 SEP 17.2 tb SEP 982.6 SEP 1412 tb SEP 139.3 SEP 207.1 SEP 11.8 SEP 20.6 tb SEP 960.3 SEP 1428 tb SEP tb SEP B SEP 121.4 SEP 186.5 SEP 32.3 SEP 27.4 tb SEP 836.9 SEP 1286 tb SEP 123.0 SEP 187.5 SEP 25.6 SEP 26.3 tb SEP 848.0 SEP 1293 tb SEP SEP MAR SEP M SEP 247 SEP Hamdbook SEP 120 SEP 150 SEP SEP tb SEP TYP SEP 827.3 SEP 1034 tb REME SEP 95 SEP PM SEP Data SEP 150 SEP 205 SEP 21 SEP 21 tb SEP TYP SEP 1034 SEP 1413 tb TABLE II Cont... EMI20.1 tb SEP TEMP SEP LOCATION SEP Specimens SEP .23ys SEP UTS SEP e SEP RA tb SEP F SEP ksi SEP ksi SEP SEP tb SEP M SEP N mê SEP M SEP N mê tb SEP 1400 SEP BOND SEP JOINT SEP B J SEP SEP 92.6 SEP 0.9 SEP 2.9 tb SEP 638.4 tb SEP SEP 95.7 SEP 0.6 SEP 2.7 tb 760 C SEP 659.8 tb SEP KENE SEP 95 SEP PM SEP B J SEP 118.2 SEP 151.8 SEP 28.7 SEP 26.9 tb SEP 814.5 SEP 1046.5 tb SEP 118.7 SEP 152.4 SEP 30.0 SEP 25.8 tb SEP 818.3 SEP 1051 tb SEP MAR SEP M SEP 247 SEP Handbock SEP 120 SEP 150 SEP SEP SEP 827.3 SEP 1034 tb SEP RENE SEP 95 SEP PM SEP Data SEP 130 SEP 155 SEP 7 SEP 8 tb SEP 896.2 SEP 1068 tb HEAT TREATMENT A B Solution Anneal 1149 C 2100 P X2hr, RAC NONE Stabilise 871 OC 16000F X4hr, AC 871 C 1600 F .X8hr, AC Age 649 C 1200 P X12hr, AC 760 C 1400 F X16hr, AC