# Device for mounting an earmuff on a helmet.

## Abstract
An attachment device in the form of a bearing housing 10 and an arm 38 projecting out through an opening 44 in the housing. The arm is supported in a bearing support 42 in the housing and serves to carry, at the end opposite the housing, an ear muff to move with a rocking motion between a stationary rest position and a position wherein the earmuff exerts a pressure around the wearer s ear. A separate spring component 44 , preferably annular in form, is rotatably supported in and prestressed to bear against, on one side, an adjustable spring support 48 , which is located inside the housing and remains stationary during the rocking motion, and, on the opposite side, the end 52 of the arm 38 located inside the housing. By this arrangement there is exerted on the said end of the arm a controlled force directed away from the spring support 48 for the purpose of stabilizing the arm in its two positions. The spring support may consist of a rocker, the position of that part 56 of the rocker in which the spring component is supported being adjustable against an adjusting means 16 with respect to the nearer end of the arm to permit alteration of the prestressing of the spring component. The adjusting means consists of a cover 16 with an annular collar 30 of thickness varying along the extent thereof. The collar rests against the inside of the ring flange 32 of a base 12 , which is rotatable with respect to the said adjusting cover.