# Permeator systems and process.

## Abstract
Permeator systems containing selectively permeable membranes suitable for pressure influenced fluid separa tions and processes for operating permeator systems for the separation of fluids are disclosed which can provide high turn down ratios of permeate while maintaining substantially constant concentrations of at least one permeating moiety in the permeate. In accordance with the invention, the per meator system comprises a plurality of permeator stages 12, 14, 16, 18 , each of which permeator stages receive a feed stream, and the flow of permeate from at least one permeator stage is initiated and terminated at predetermined rates of permeate fluid flow from the permeator systems.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A permeator system comprising at least two permeator stages, each of said permeator stages having a selectively permeable membrane with a feed side and permeate side, said membrane being suitable for pressure influenced fluid s,epara tions a means for providing a feed stream to the feed side of the membrane of each of said permeator stages a means for removing the feed stream from the feed side of the membrane of each of said permeator stages means for removing fluid from the permeate side of the membrane from each of said permeator stages, at least one of said means for removing fluid from the permeate side containing a means for terminating flow means for combining fluid from the means for removing fluid from the permeate side and means for transporting fluid from said means for combining fluid, said means for transporting fluid comprising means for detecting fluid flow through said means for transporting fluid, said means for detecting fluid flow being adapted to actuate at least one means for terminating flow when the fluid flow in said means for transporting fluid is at a predetermined rate. 2. A permeator system of Claim 1, in which said means for providing a feed stream comprises a means for dividing a feed stream which is upstream of each of said permeator stages and is adapted to provide a feed stream to each of said permeator stages. 3. A permeator system of Claim 1 or 2, in which said means for providing a feed stream is adapted to provide a substantially constant fluid flow to each of said permeator stages. 4. A permeator system of any of the preceding claims, in which said means for transporting fluid comprises a means for regulating fluid flow 5. A permeator system of any of the preceding claims, in which said means for transporting fluid comprises a pressure regulator adapted to provide a substantially constant pressure fluid from said means for transporting. 6. A permeator system of any of the preceding claims, in which said means for terminating flow is actuated to either a substantially fully opened or substantially fully closed position. 7. A permeator system of any of the preceding claims, in which substantially the same effective membrane surface area is contained in each permeator stage. 8. A permeator system of any of the preceding claims, in which the membranes comprise hollow fiber membranes. 9. A permeator system of any of the preceding claims, in which the means for providing a feed stream is in communication with the exteriors of the hollow fibers. 10. A permeator system of any of, the preceding claims, in which the permeator system is suitable for effecting gas separations. 11. A permeator system of any of the preceding claims, in which the means for detecting fluid flow is adapted to determine fluid flow substantially independent of the total pressure of fluid in said means for transporting fluid. 12. A permeator system of any of the preceding claims, having at least three permeator stages, the means for removing permeate from the permeate side from at least two of said permeator stages, having means for terminating flow. 13. A permeator system of any of the preceding claims, in which the predetermined rate of fluid flow in said means for transporting fluid at which the means for terminating flow is actuated, is different for at least two of said permeator stages having means for terminating flow. 14. A process for operating a permeator system comprising at least two permeator stages over a range of permeate flow rates comprising a. providing a fluid feed stream for each of said permeator stages, said feed streams comprising a permeating moiety and a slower permeating moiety b. passing each of said feed streams to its permeator stage to contact the feed side of a selectively permeable membrane suitable for pressure influenced fluid separations and providing on the permeate side of the membrane a permeate containing said permeating moiety c. removing the portion of the feed stream not permeating the membrane from the feed side of the membranes from each of the permeator stages d. combining permeate passing from each of said permeator stages, said combined permeate being at a total pressure less than the total pres sure of the feed streams to each of the per meator stages e, permitting permeate to pass from at least one permeator stage of the permeator system only when the combined permeate fluid flow surpasses a predetermined rate, and terminating the pas sage of permeate from at least one permeator stage of the permeator system only when the combined permeate fluid flow drops below a predetermined rate and f. maintaining the permeate side of each permeator stage of the permeator system, from which per meator stage permeate is passing, at a lower total pressure than the total pressure on the feed side of the permeator stage to provide a differential in chemical potential to provide a driving force for the permeation of the per meating moiety through the membrane, said total pressure on the permeate side of each permeate stage from which permeate is passing being permitted to vary in response to changes in the rate of combined permeate fluid flow. 15. A process of Claim 14, wherein the rate of said combined permeate fluid flow is detected, and the passage of the permeate from at least one permeator stage is initiated and terminated in response to the detected rate of combined permeate fluid flow. 16. A process of Claim 15, wherein the rate of combined permeate fluid flow is detected substantially independent of the total pressure of the combined permeate. 17. A process of any of Claims 14 to 16, wherein at the predetermined rate of combined permeate fluid flow at which permeate is permitted to pass from at least one permeator stage, the difference in total pressure of the feed streams and the total pressure of the combined permeate is below that which adversely affects the membrane. 18. A process of any of Claims 14 to 17, wherein at the predetermined rate of combined permeate fluid flow at which permeate is permitted to pass from at least one permeator stage, the total pressure of the combined permeate is above a predetermined combined permeate minimum pressure. 19. A process of any of Claims 14 to 18, wherein at the predetermined rate of combined permeate fluid flow at which permeate is permitted to pass from at least one permeator stage, the concentration of the permeating moiety in the combined permeate, upon permitting the permeate to pass from said at least one permeator stage, is above a predetermined minimum concentration. 20. A process of any of Claims 14 to 19, wherein at the predetermined rate of combined permeate fluid flow at which permeate is permitted to pass from at least one permeator stage, the concentration of the permeating moiety in the combined permeate, prior to permitting permeate to pass from said at least one permeator stage, is below a predetermined maximum concentration. 21. A process of any of Claims 14 to 20, whe rein the predetermined rate of combined permeate fluid flow at which permeate is permitted to pass from said at least one permeator stage and the predetermined rate of combined permeate fluid flow at which permeate from that permeator stage is terminated are the same. 22. A process of any of Claims 14 to 21, wherein at the predetermined rate of combined permeate fluid flow at which the passage of permeate from at least one permeator stage is terminated, the concentration of the permeating moiety in the combined permeate is above a predetermined minimum concentration. 23. A process of any of Claims 14 to 22, wherein feed streams are passed to at least three permeator stages, permeate from at least two of the permeator stages is permitted to pass and passage terminated at predetermined rates of combined permeate fluid flow. 24. A process of Claim 23 wherein the predetermined rate of combined permeate fluid flow is different for at least two of said at least two permeator stages. 25. A process of any of Claims 14 to 24, wherein a substantially constant rate of flow of feed stream is passed to each of the permeator stages. 26. A process of any of Claims 14 to 25, wherein the rate of combined permeate fluid flow is varied in response to a demand for combined permeate. 27. A process of any of Claims 14 to 26, wherein the combined permeate is pressure regulated to provide a combined permeate having a substantially constant total pressure. 28. A process of any of Claims 14 to 27, wherein a feed stream is divided to provide the feed stream to each of the permeator stages. 29. A process of any of Claims 14 to 28, wherein the composition of the feed streams to each of permeator stages is substantially constant. 30. A process of any of Claims 14 to 29, wherein the concentration of the permeating moiety in the combined permeate when permeate is being passed from at least two premeator stages, is substantially constant providing the total pressure of the combined permeate is above a predetermined minimum pressure. 31. A process of any of Claims 14 to 30 having a turn down ratio of at least about 4 with a substantially constant concentration of permeating moiety in the combined permeate. 32. A process of any of Claims 14 to 31, wherein the fluid separation is gas separation. 33. A process of any of Claims 14 to 32, wherein the separation factor of the membrane for the permeating moiety over the slower permeating moiety is at least about 10.

## Description
PEBMEATOR SYSTEMS AND PROCESS This invention pertains to permeator systems for fluid separations using selectively permeable membranes and processes for operating the permeator systems for fluid separations. Particularly, this invention pertains to permeator systems and processes in which high turn down ratios of rate of permeate fluid flow can be achieved while maintaining a substantially constant concentration of a permeating moiety in the permeate from the permeator system. Selectively permeable membranes have been proposed for many fluid separations including the separation of moieties from gases and liquids. Particularly attractive selectively permeable membranes utilize a differential in chemical potential as the driving force for the permeation of a moiety through the membrane.Hence, in gas separations, the driving force may be a differential in fugacities often approximated by partial pressures across the membrane. In liquid separations, the driving force may be a differential in pressure These types of separations can be referred to as pressure influenced separations, i.e., changes in total pressure on at least one of the feed and permeate side of the membrane can significantly affect the flux of moieties permeating through the membrane.The rate at which a moiety can pass through a membrane for pressure influenced separations thus will depend upon the permeability of the membrane i.e., the rate of permeation of the moiety per unit area per unit time per unit differential in chemical potential , the differential in chemical potential across the membrane, e.g., the differential in partial pressure for gases and the differential in osmotic pressure for liquids, and the membrane area available to effect the fluid separation the effective membrane surface area . The selectivity of fluid separations in perme3tor systems is provided by the use of membranes exhibiting different permeabilities for different moieties contained in the fluid. A ratio of the permeabilities is frequently referred to as a separation factor.However, the achievable selectivity for a given separation will depend upon not only the separation factor of the membrane but also the driving force for each of the moieties in the fluid. Thus, the conditions of operation of the permeator system will significantly affect the relative concentrations of the moieties in the permeate. Generally, for a given membrane and feed stream flow rate and composition, the permeator system is designed using two major variables, effective membrane surface area and total pressure differential across the membrane, to produce a permeate having a desired permeating moiety concentration and recovery in the permeate of that moiety. The interdependence of these major variables on the performance of the separation system can easily be appreciated. For example, if the effective membrane surface area is increased, all other variables remaining constant, a greater recovery of the desired permeating moiety will be obtained.However, since the feed stream will become more depleted in a faster permeating moiety than a slower permeating moiety, the driving force for the permeation of the slower permeating moiety will also increase and may become sufficient to significantly increase the ratio of the slower permeating moiety passing through the membrane to the faster permeating moiety passing through the membrane. Hence, additional recovery will be achieved at the expense of purity of the faster permeating moiety in the permeate. Similarly, for a given effective membrane surface area, an increase in total pressure differential across the membrane, all other variables remaining constant, will also result in the feed stream becoming more depleted in a faster permeating moiety and thus the permeate may contain a greater amount of the faster permeating moiety but at a lower purity. In many instances, the flow rate and composition of the feed stream are relatively constant and a relatively constant recovery of a permeating moiety may be acceptable and even desired.Consequently, the permeator system can readily be designed to utilize a fixed effective membrane surface area and fixed total pressure differential to provide a desired permeate recovery and concentration, However, such permeator systems have little capability to alter the permeate flow i.e., permeate turn down ratio capability without significant changes in the concentration of the desired permeating moiety in the permeate from the permeator system.Although the total pressure differential across the membrane may be variable, limits on feed stream pressure availability, minimum permeate pressure requirements, and maximum totai pressure differential which can be tolerated across the membrane, may provide too little flexibility in achieving a desired range of permeate turn down ratios. Effective membrane surface area can also be varied, however, since membranes are usually contained in vessels permeators having a fixed effective membrane surface area, only incremental changes in this variable can be made. Such incremental changes in effective membrane surface area may be so large as io prohibit maintaining a suitable permeating moiety concentration over the desired permeate turn down ratio.Although the effect of the incremental changes can be minimized by using more permeators, each containing a smaller effective membrane surface area, the expense in fabricating more permeators may render such a solution unattractive. By this invention permeator systems and processes are provided for fluid separations using selectively permeable membranes suitable for pressure influenced fluid separations in which high permeate turn down ratios can be achieved while maintaining substantially constant concentrations of the desired permeating moiety in the permeator system. Moreover, the permeator systems and processes can utilize large permeators which may be less expensive per unit effective membrane surface area to fabricate than smaller permeators. Furthermore, the high permeate turn down ratios can be achieved using relatively uncomplicated apparatus and with minimal capital and operating expense. Advantageously, the rate of permeate from the permeator system can be established by the demand for the permeate and can rapidly change in response to a change in demand.Moreover, changes in the rate of feed stream flow to the permeator system need not be effected to provide the desired permeate turn down ratios. In accordance with this invention, the permeator system comprises at least two permeator stages each permeator stage may contain one or more permeators in series, in parallel or both each permeator system containing selectively permeable membranes suitable for pressure influenced fluid separations. A feed stream is passed to each of the permeator stages, and the flow of permeate from at least one permeator stage is initiated and terminated at predetermined rates of permeate fluid flow from the permeator system. As the rates of permeate fluid flow changes, the total pressure of the permeate varies to provide sufficient permeate to meet the demand for permeate. In the permeator systems of this invention, a means for providing a feed stream to the feed side of the selectively permeable membrane is utilized for each of the permeator stages A means is used for removing the feed stream non permeat e from the feed side of the membrane, and each permeator stage also has means for removing fluid from the permeate side of the membrane, At least one of the means for removing fluid from the permeate side contains a means for terminating flow. Each of the means for removing fluid from the permeate side is in communication with means for combining fluid to provide a combined permeate. A means for transporting the combined permeate is used to remove the permeate from the permeator system.The means for transporting the combined permeate comprises means for detecting fluid flow through the means for transporting.The means for detecting fluid flow is adapted to actuate at least one means for terminating flow, i.e., to permit or to terminate permeate flow from the at least one permeator stage, when the fluid flow is at a predetermined rate. In the processes of this invention a feed stream containing a permeating moiety and a slower permeating moiety is provided to each of a plurality of permeator stages containing selectively permeable membranes suitable for pressure influenced fluid separations and each membrane having a feed side and a permeate side and adapted to provide a permeate containing the permeating moiety on the permeate side of the membrane. The feed streams are contacted with the feed sides of the membranes, and the portion of the feed stream not permeating the membrane Cn n permeate is removed from the feed side of the membranes from each of the permeator stages.Permeate passing from each of the permeator stages is combined, and the combined permeate is at a total pressure which is less than the total pressure of the feed streams to each of the permeator stages.Permeate from at least one permeator stage of the permeator system is permitted to pass only when the combined permeate fluid flow surpasses a predetermined rate, and such passage from the at least one permeator stage is terminated only when the combined permeate fluid flow drops below a predetermined rate.The permeate side of the membranes of each permeator stage from which permeate is passing to provide the combined permeate i.e., operating permeator stage , is maintained at a lower total pressure than the total pressure on the feed side to provide a differential in chemical potential to provide a driving force for the permeation of the permeating moiety through the membrane, and the total pressure on the permeate side of each operating permeator stage is permitted to vary in response to changes in the rate of combined permeate fluid flow. Preferably, the rate of the combined permeate fluid flow is detected, and the passage of the permeate from at least one permeator stage is initiated and terminated in response to the detected rate of combined permeate fluid flow. In the permeator systems and processes of this invention, the flow rate of permeate from the permeator system can be varied over a wide range of adding or deleting permeate from one or more permeator stages in the permeator system and by permitting the permeate side total pressure to vary within predetermined ranges to meet the demand for permeate. The variations permitted in total pressure on the permeate side can be sufficiently small that a substantially constant concentration of the desired permeating moiety in the permeate can be readily achieved over a range of flow rates of permeate. Since a feed stream is passed to each of the permeator stay, regardless of whether or not permeate is passing from a permeator stage, the turn down in flow rate of permeate can frequently be obtained without varying the flow rate of the feed stream to any permeator stage.A par lcularly attractive advantage of this invention is that the initiation and termination of the flow of permeate from a permeator stage to provide the combined permeate can be in response to the rate of combined permeate fluid flow. Consequently, a change in demand for permeate can be easily sensed by any suitable fluid flow meter, e.g., orifice meters, venturi meters, turbine meters, vortex shedding meters, etc. Since the total pressure of combined permeate changes with the rate of combined permeate fluid flow, in some instances the pressure of the combined permeate may be detected and, at predetermined pressures which may correspond to rates of combined permeate fluid flow , used to initiate or terminate the passage of permeate from permeator stages.Preferably the flow rate is determined on a basis substantially independent of the total pressure of the permeate since the total pressure of the combined permeate is permitted to vary in response to the demand for permeate. At predetermined rates of combined permeate fluid flow, the passage of permeate from a permeator stage can be initiated or terminated. The permeator system can readily be automated without complex apparatus, e.g., the flow meter can be adapted to actuate a control valve on the permeate exit line from the permeat or. Moreover, the valve need only be positioned in either a fully opened or fully closed position, and complex valve positioning apparatus need not be employed. The selection of the predetermined rates of combined permeate fluid flow at which the passage of permeate from a permeator stage is initiated or terminated can be based on, e.g., the total pressure of the permeate and the concentration of the desired permeating moiety in the permeate. The total pressure of the permeate can have several effects on the permeate. Clearly, if the pressure of the permeate is decreased, the driving force for permeation can be increased, thereby enhancing the recovery of the desired permeating moiety ti.e., the rate of permeate fluid flow is increased . However, the pressure of the permeate can also affect the concentration of the desired permeating moiety in the permeate.For example, at very low pressure differentials, the feed stream and the permeate may tend towards equilibrium, i.e., the composition of the feed stream and permeate may be substantiálly identical. In fact, in a permeator stage from which the egress of permeate is blocked, after a period of time, the pressures and concentrations on each of the feed side and permeate side of the membrane may be virtually identical. As the total pressure differential increases, the rate of permeation of the faster permeating moiety is enhanced and a greater selectivity of separation is achieved. However, as the feed stream becomes depleted in the faster permeating moiety a greater driving force for the permeation of the slower permeating moiety occurs. Hence, if the feed stream becomes too depleted in the faster permeating moiety, the selectivity of separation may decrease. Thus, if the permeate pressure becomes excessively low, the increased rate of permeation of the faster permeating moiety may result in such a depletion of the faster permeating moiety in the feed stream that the selectivity of separation decreases. Also, the permeate pressure may be so low that the membrane ruptures or is otherwise adversely affected by the large total pressure differential across its thickness. Moreover, the permeate may be sought at a given minimum pressure in order that the permeate may be suitable for use without undue compression. Preferably, the predetermined rate of combined permeate flow at wh ich the passage of permeate from a permeator stage is initiated is such that the difference in total pressure of the feed stream and the combined permeate is maintained below that which adversely affects the membranes. Frequently, at the predetermined rate of combined permeate fluid flow for the initiating of operation of a permeator stage, the total pressure of the combined permeate is above a predetermined combined permeate minimum pressure. This combined permeate minimum pressure may be established by the strength and other physical properties of the membrane, by assuring a desired minimum permeate pressure for the use of the permeate, or, in some instances, by assuring that an undue reduction in the selectivity of separation does not occur.Also, when the permeator stage begins operation, it is often desired that the concentration of the desired permeating moiety in the combined permeate be above a predetermined minimum concentration. In many instances, the concentration of the desired permeating moiety in the permeate increases with increasing total pressure differential. Thus, it may be desired to establish the predetermined rate of combined permeate fluid flow at a rate at which the concentration of the desired permeating moiety in the combined permeate is below a predetermined maximum. Thus, when the additional permeation stage is brought on line, a lesser total pressure differential is required to provide the same amount of combined permeate and the concentration of the desired permeating moiety in the combined permeate is reduced. The predetermined rate of combined permeate fluid flow at which the passage of permeate for a permeator stage is terminated may be substantially the same or different from the predetermined rate for the initiation of passage. Generally, the predetermined rate of combined permeate flow at which the passage of permeate is terminated is such that, after termination the concentration of the desired.permeating moiety in the combined permeate is above a predetermined minimum concentration. It should be recognized that the permeator system may not be at a steady state operation immediately upon initiating operation of a permeator stage. For instance, the egress of permeate from the permeator stage mdy have been blocked and upon initially permitting the permeate to flow from the permeator stage, the existing fluid on the permeate side of the membrane will be expelled from the permeator stage, and thus, the combined permeate may have a substantially lower concentration of the desired permeating, moiety during this expulsion.Thus, upon bringing another permeator stage on line to provide permeate or sensing the flow of permeate from a permeator stage, the combined permeate pressure must readjust to provide the desired rate of combined permeate fluid flow. The duration of such transitory non steady state operation is usually relatively brief, e.g., sometimes less than about 5, say, less than about 1, minute, and consequently may have little effect on the suitability of the combined permeate for its intended use. In many instances, a single feed stream is passed to the permeator system. Since a feed stream is to be passed to each of the permeator stages, the single feed stream can be divided into feed substreams which are then passed to the permeator stages. The flow rate of the feed streams to each of the permeators may be the same or different, and the feed streams may 6e at different or, preferably, the same total pressure. In the preferred aspects of this invention, the flow rate of a feed stream to a permeator stage is maintained substantially constant even though the rate of combined permeate fluid flow may vary. Also, particularly when a combined permeate having a substantially constant concentration of the desired permeating moiety is sought, the composition of the feed stream is substantially constant. The number of permeator stages to be employed will depend upon the desired permeate turn down ratio, the desired tolerance on the concentration of the desired permeating moiety in the combined permeate, tbe available size of permeators, the flow rate of the feed stream, and the like. While it is readily apparent that this invention can be used with permeator systems having as little as two permeator stages, generally higher permeate turn down ratios can be achieved utilizing greater numbers of permeator stages and utilizing greater numbers of permeator stages having associated therewith means to terminate permeate flow. Preferably, at least three permeator stages are used, atLeast two of which have means to terminate permeate flow. Since this invention provides considerable flexibility achieving high turn down ratios, large permeators which may be less expensive per unit of effective membrane surface area, can often be beneficially utilized. The term turn down ratio is used in the situation where demand for permeate decreases, and is defined as the ratio between the rates of permeate flow respectively existing before and after the decrease. Frequently, the permeate turn down ratio which can be achieved without substantially changing the concentration of the desired permeating moiety in the combined permeate e.g., the change in concentration is less than about one volume percent based on the total combined permeate is at least about 2, and may even be at least about 4. With 3 or 4 permeators, it may often be possible to obtain a permeate turn down ratio greater than about 10.The permeate turn down ratio which can be achieved with any given permeator system, of course, depends upon the permissible operating conditions of that system, the physical properties of that system, and the fluids being processed in the permeator.Hence, with a given permeator system, but using Åa different feed stream component, the separation factor of the selectively permeable membrane may be different and hence different permeate turn down ratios may be obtained. The permeate from each of the operating permeator stages is com bined. The permeate from the non permeating permeator stages may be blocked from passage from the permeator hence, little,, if any, moieties permeate the membrane. Consequently, the non permeate from that permeator stage will not become depleted in the faster permeating moiety. This may be advantageous in many instances since the portion of the faster permeating moiety which is lost from the feed stream due to the permeation will only be that amount required to meet the demand for the combined permeate. For purposes of facilitating the understanding of the invention, reference is made to the drawings in which FIGURE 1 is a schematic flow diagram of an apparatus in accordance with this invention and FIGURE 2 is a graphic illustration of the combined permeate fluid flow rate and combined permeate pressure and purity of a process in accordance with this invention. With respect to Figure 1, a feed stream is passed via line 10 to a plurality of permeator stages. The feed stream may be any suitable liquid or gaseous fluid containing at least one moiety which is to be recovered in the permeate through a selectively permeable membrane. Preferably the feed stream is provided at a substantially constant total pressure and a substantially constant composition.The total pressure of the feed stream may be any suitable pressure for effecting fluid separations by permeation through selectively permeable membranes. Often, the feed stream pressure is at least about 3 atmospheres absolute, and frequently it is about 3 to about 250 or more atmospheres absolute. The temperature of the feed stream is preferably below a temperature which may be unduly deleterious to the membranes, e.g., often less than about 1200C for polymeric membranes, but is at a sufficiently high temperature to facilitate permeation. For example, the temperature of the feed stream may often be about 00 to 1000C, say, about 100 to 600C As depicted, the apparatus comprises four permeators, i.e., permeators 12, 14, 16 and 18.Each of the permeators is fed a feed substream via lines 20, 22, 24 and 26, respectively. Each feed substrea,m can conveniently be at a su6stantially constan flow rate.The flow rate of each of the feed substreams to the permeators may be the same or different depending upon the effective membrane surface area available in each of the permeators and the desired permeate recovery and purity from each of the permeators. For example, the ratio of the feed substream flow rate to effective membrane surface area in permeator 12 may be greater than that in permeators 14, 16, or 18 such that a higher coticentration of the desired permeating moiety and the permeate from permeator 12 can be achieved at relatively low permeate flow rates. The amount of effective membrane surface area may also be the same or vary from permeator to permeator.The amount of effective membrane surface area to be utilized will depend upon the separation factor of the membrane, the flow rate of the feed substream, the permeability of the membrane to the desired permeating moiety, and the purity of the desired permeating moiety which is sought in the combined permeate. The non permeates exit permeators 12, 14, 16 and 18 via lines 28, 30, 32, and 34. As shown, the non permeates from the permeators are combined and exhausted from the permeator system via line 36. The permeate from permeator 12 exits via line 38 and passes to line 40 The permeate from permeator 14 exits via line 42 containing control valve 44 which is adapted to be actuated to either, an open or closed position. Permeate which passes through control valve 44 enters line 40 and is combined with permeate from permeator 12. The permeate from permeator 16 is withdrawn via line 46 containing control valve 48 which is similar to control valve 44. Permeate passing through control valve 48 then passes to line 40 for combination with permeates from other permeators. The permeate from permeator 18 is withdrawn via line 50 containing control valve 52.Control valve 52 is si milar to control valve 44. Permeate passing through control valve 52 is passed to line 40 for combination with permeates from other permeators. After the combination of the permeate from lines 38, 42, 46, and 50, the combined permeate is passed through flow meter 54. Flow meter 54 is also adapted to actuate control valves 44, 48, and 52 at predetermined combined flow rates. As depicted, flow meter 54 is in communication with valve 44 via line 56, control valve 48 via line 58 and control valve 52 via line 60. The actuation of the control valves may be by any suitable means including electrical, mechanical or pneumatic means. The combined permeate, after passing through flow meter 54 is passed to demand valve 62.Demand valve 62 is adapted to be adjusted to provide the desired combined permeate flow rate, e.g., demand valve 62 can provide a back pressure on the permeate side of the operating permeators such that only desired rates of combined permeate fluid flow are obtained. temand valve 62 may also be adapted to provide the combined permeate exiting the permeator system at a substantially constant pressure at or below the minimum combined permeate pressure over the intended rate of permeate turn down ratios. In operation, a feed stream is divided into feed substreams and passed to each of permeators 12, 14, 16 and 18. Demand valve 62 is opened to provide the desired combined permeate flow rate. With respect to Figure 2, as the combined permeate flow rate increases, the demand for permeate from permeator 12 increases, and the permeate pressure from permeator 12 is reduced. The decrease in permeator pressure also increases the driving force for the permeation of the desired permeating moiety, and more permeate is obtained with a increase in the concentration of the desired moiety in the combined permeate. When the combined permeate fluid flow rate reaches a predetermined rate A, flow meter 54 actuates control valve 44 via line 56 and permeate is allowed to pass from permeator 14.The total pressure of the combined permeate is increased since a lesser differential in total pressure is required to obtain the same amount of permeate because of the increase in effective membrane surface area since another permeator is operating. Again, as the demand for combined permeate increases, the total pressure of the combined permeate decreases with the concentration of the desired permeating moiety in the combined permeate increasing. When the combined permeate fluid flow rate reaches a higher predetermined rate B, flow meter 54 actuates control valve 48 via line 58, and permeator 16 begins supplying permeate to meet the demand for combined permeate, and the total pressure of the combined permeate is increased.If the demand for combined permeate is further increased, flow meter 54 at higher predetermined rate C, will actuate control valve 52 via line 60, and permeate 18 will begin providing permeate to line 40 to meet the demand for combined permeate. A desired reduction in the rate of combined permeate fluid flow can be effected by closing demand valve 62, and at combined permeate fluid flow rates at C, B and A each of valves 52, 48, and 44 close in sequence. Any selectively permeable material suitable for pressureinfluenced fluid separations may find application in permeator systems in accordance with the invention. Typical membrane materials include organic polymers or organic polymer mixed with inorganics, e.g., fillers, reinforcements, and the like. Metallic and metalcontaining membranes may also be employed. Polymeric membranes are usually preferred due to their ability to achieve sat sfactory permeabilities without the need for excessively high temperatures. Polymers which may be suitable for fluid separations can be substituted or unsubstituted polymers, especially carbon based polymers having carbon carbon or carbon oxygen backbones, and may be selected from polysulfones polystyrenes polycarbonates cellulosic polymers polyamides and polyimides polyethers polyCarylene oxides polyurethanes polyesters polysiloxanes polysilanols polysulfides and polymers from monomers havin3 alpha olefinic unsaturation other than mentioned above. The polymers may be interpolymers, including block interpolymers containing repeating units such as those mentioned above and grafts and blends containing any of the foreyoing. The membranes may be isotropic or ani sotropic and may be supported or self supporting.Frequently the, separation factor of the membranes for the permeating moiety over the slower permeating moiety is at least about 3 and sometimes is at least about 10. A permeator containing a selectively permeable membrane may be of any suitable design for fluid separations, e.g., plate and frame, or having spiral wound film membranes, tubular membranes, hollow fiber membranes, or the like. Preferably, the permeator comprises hollow fiber membranes due to the high effective membrane surface area per unit volume of permeator which can be obtained. When the membranes are in tubular or hollow fiber form, a plurality of the membranes can be substantially parallelly arranged in bundle form, and the feed stream can be contacted with either the outside shell side or the inside bore side of the membranes. Preferably, the feed stream is contacted with the shell side of the membrane since passage of the feed stream through the bore side of the membranes may involve substantially greater pressure losses.Since the concentration of the desired permeating moiety on the feed side of the membrane is continually diminishing as it permeates to the permeate side of the membrane, the chemical potential for the permeation of thei permeating moiety across the membrane will also be changing. Therefore, flow patterns in a permeator can be utilized to provide desired recoveries of the desired permeating moiety. For instance, the permeate and the feed stream flows can be countercurrent or concurrent.With bundles of hollow fiber and tubular membranes, the shell side fluid flow can be radial, i.e., the fluid transversely flows past the membranes to either the inside or, usually, the outside of the bundle, or the flow can be axial, i.e., the flow dispersed within the bundle and generally flows within the direction in which the hollow fibers or tubular membranes are oriented. The total pressure differential across the selectively permeable membrane varies in accordance with the processes of t his invention. The maximum total pressure differential, however, should not be so great as to unduly stress the membrane such that it ruptures or is prone to easily rupturing, or such that the permeation properties of the membrane, are not adversely affected. In t.iai y instances, the total pressure differential across the membrane is at least about l atmosphere, say, up to, about 100 or 120 atmospheres. The fluid separation processes of this invention are suitable for liquid and, most preferably, gaseous feed streams. The permeate may also be liquid or gaseous, thus the processes of this invention are also useful for pervaporation separations in which a gaseous permeate is obtained from a liquid feed stream. A particularly attractive use for the processes of this invention is for the separation of gases. or example, gases such as hydrogen, carbon dioxide, and oxygen are frequently needed for industrial processes as raw materials. Often, these gases are available from sources such as purge streams, chemical process streams, air, natural gas, and the like having relatively constant compositions. The processes of this invention permit the desired gas to be provided at an adequate purity and pressure even though wide variations in the demand for the gas may exist. The following example is provided in illustratirn of a process in accordance with this invention. All parts and percentages of gases and liquids are by volume unless otherwise noted. An apparatus similar to that depicted in Figure 1 except that only three permeators are employed Ci.e., no permeator 18 is present is utilized to recover hydrogen from a hydrogen containing stream containing about 80 percent hydrogen, about 16 percent nitrogen, and about 2.5 percent of each of the methane and argon. The feed stream is at a pressure of about 115 atmospheres absolute. The flow rate of the feed stream is approximately 160,000 normal cubic meters per day. Approximately 53,000 normal cubic meters per day of the feed stream is passed to each of permeators 12, 14, and 16. Permeators 12, 14, and 16 are identical, and are hollow fiber containing permeators of the types schematicaliy depicted in U. S.Patent 4,172,885, issued October 30, 1979. Each permeator contains about 90 sauare meters of effective membrane surface area, and the membrane exhibits a hydrogen permeability of about 70 x 10 6 cubic centimeters of hydrogen STP per square centimeter of surface area per second per centimeter of mercury partial pressure differential. The separation factor for hydrogen over argon is approximately 45, and the separation factor for hydrogen over each of nitrogen and methane is approximately 60. Flow meter 54 is adapted to actuate control valve 44 at a combined permeate fluid flow rate of about 17,000 normal cubic meters per day and control valve 48 at approximately 34 000, normal cubic meters per day. At a flow. rate of about 7,000 normal cubic meters per day, the purity of hydrogen in the combined permeate is approximately 97 volume percent, and the bore pressure Cpermeate pressure is about 75 atmospheres absolute. At the flow rate at which control valve 44 is actuated, the permeate pressure is about 50 atmospheres absolute, and the hydrogen purity in the permeate is about 98.5 volume percent.When control valve 44 opens, the permeate pressure increases Cat steady state conditions to approximately 72 atmospheres absolute, and the permeate purity decreases to only about 97.8 volume percent. At the flow rate at which control valve 48 is actuated, the combined permeate pressure decreases to about 50 atmospheres absolute, and the permeate purity increases to about 98.6 volume percent. Upon opening control valve 48, the bore pressure increases Cat steady state conditions to about 60 atmospheres absolute, and the combined permeate contains about 98.3 volume percent hydrogen. At a combined permeate fluid flow of 50,000 normal cubic meters per day, the combined permeate pressure drops to about 48 atmospheres absolute and the hydrogen concentration of the combined permeate is about 98 5 volume percent.