# Process for producing a cookable meat product.

## Abstract
A process for producing a cookable meat product, 1 which process includes the steps of forming a compact 2 of cookable meat and preserving the physical integrity of the compact 2 during subsequent processing steps, characte rised in that it further includes coating at least part of the compact in a substantially oven proof batter 4 and consoli dating the coating and a cookable meat product comprising a compact substantially or wholly of poultry meat 3 , characterised in that of the compact is partially coated with a substantially oven proof batter. Preferably the compact is extruded, then frozen, coated with a coating of the batter and a layer of edible crumbs 5 applied to the batter coating.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for producing a cookable meat product, which process includes the steps of forming a compact of cookable meat, and preserving the physical integrity of the compact during subsequent processing steps, characterised in that it further includes coating at least part of the compact in a substantially oven proof batter and consolidating the coating. 2. A process as claimed in Claim 1, characterized in that the physical integrity of the compact is preserved during subsequent processing steps by freezing the compact and in that the surface of the compact is deglazed prior to coating with batter. 3. A process as claimed in Claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the batter coating is consolidated by heating. 4. A process as claimed in any one of the precedingClaims, characterized in that the batter is applied to the compact by extrusion around the compact. 5. A process as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 3, characterized in that the compact and the batter coating are formed by a coextrusion process. 6. A process as claimed in Claim 4 or 5, characterized in that the compact with batter coating is extruded into a casing. 7. A process as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 6, characterized in that the compact is dusted with a fine powder prior to coating with batter. 8. A process as claimed in any one the precedingClaims, characterized in that it includes a further step of applying a coating of edible crumbs. 9. A process as claimed in Claim 8, wherein the edible crumbs are applied by mixing the crumbs with batter and thereafter applying a coating of the mixture. 10. A process as claimed in Claim 8, characterized in that the crumb coating is applied to the batter coating, and is applied prior to consolidation of the batter coating. 11. A cookable meat product comprising a compact substantially or wholly of poultry meat, characterized in that the compact is at least partially coated with a substantially oven proof batter. 12. A product as claimed in Claim 11, characterized in that there is further provided a coating of edible crumbs. 13. A product as claimed in Claim 12, wherein the batter and crumbs are intermixed to form a substantially unitary coating. 14. A product as claimed in Claim 12 or 13, characterized in that the crumb coating is substantially oven proof.

## Description
Title PROCESS FOR PRODUCING A COOKABDE MEAT PRODUCTDESCRIPTION This invention relates to a process for the production of cookable meat products and to such cookable meat products. In recent years products known as turkey rolls have become popular. These comprise a cylinder of compacted, extruded meat wrapped in a sheet of pork fat or coated with a co extruded fat layer. The advantage to the consumer is that the product contains no Dones and the advantage to the manufacturer is that substantially all of the meat upon the carcass can be utilized. The fat coating is believed to be desirable to maintain the integrity of the product during cooking and to prevent drying out and weight loss during cooking. Major disadvantages of using the sheet of pork fat are that the entire product becomes permeated with a pork flavour, that the sheet must be manually wrapped about the cylinder and tied thereupon with string, and that the sheet remains visually unattractive after cooking. A disadvantage of the known products is that many consumers do not like and will not eat fat so the fat layer, which constitutes a significant part of the weight of the product, may well be wasted. According to a first aspect of the present invention there is provided a cookable meat product comprising a compact of poultry meat, such as turkey or chicken, which has a coating of substantially oven proof batter thereupon.The compact may have a complete or partial coating, an advantage of the latter being that the meat may be inspected by the consumer prior to purchase. Preferably the meat product is in the form of a cylinder of dimensions suitable to form a family roast, or in slices to form a burger . Very preferably the compact is formed by extrusion of the meat. It can be seen that various cross sectional shapes may be obtained a preferred form for packing and handling is a circular cross section. In a preferred product of the invention the batter has a coating of edible crumbs thereupon. Substantially oven proof breadcrumbs can be used, to censure an attractive cooked product. According to a second aspect of the present invention there is provided a process for producing a cookable meat product, which process includes forming a compact of cookable meat, taking steps to preserve the physical integrity of the compact during subsequent processing steps, coating at least part of the compact in a substantially oven proof batter, and consolidating the batter coating. Preferably the compact is formed by extrusion of the cookable meat, however, other methods such as pressing the meat in a mould may be used. Preferably the physical integrity oi the compact is preserved by freezing the compact, however other methods such as utilizing a gelatinous matrix are envisaged. The batter coating may be consolidated by heating, and is an oven proof batter. Very preferably a raw meat such as beef, turkey or chicken flesh is employed in the process but other meat such as ham or bacon may be used. The term meat is employed broadly in the foregoing definition of the invention to embrace meat substitutes, e.g. soya protein, and fish. The meat is preferably tumbled with a brine solution to improve its texture and flavour and its subsequent agglutination, thus to improve its general quality. Take up by the meat of the brine solution increases the weight of the meat and aids in the cooking of the meat by promoting what may be thought of asr a self basting process. After tumbling, the meat is generally allowed to rest for a period of time. When extrusion of the tumbled meat is carried out, it is preferably performed using a vacuum filling machine into a cylindrical casing which may be of a fibrous material or of a plastics sheet material such as nylon. The casing may in certain circumstances be edible. Very preferably the encased extruded compact is then frozen until a suitable temperature is achieved blast freezing is preferred, other suitable techniques include immersion in chilled brine or propylene glycol. After the compact has been frozen or otherwise treated to retain its physical integrity the casing may be stripped off an edible casing may be left on if preferred, subject to cooking requirements etc. . Thereafter the compact is coated with a batter which is substantially ovenproof, i.e. will not char or burn when cooked at the temperature and length of time required to cook the meat such batters are commercially available. Preferably a liquid batter is employed, in which case the coating may be applied by passing the compact through a ncurtalnt of batter, by spraying or by immersion, orthe like.It is envisaged that a powder batter may be employed, coating being achieved by rolling the compact therein or blowing the powder on. It has been found that adherence of the batter to the compact may be improved by predusting the compact with a fine powder e.g. cornflour, predusting may be achieved by rolling the compact in the powder or blowing the powder thereon. In addition to improved adherence, it has been found thatth opacity of the batter layer may be increased, this is of advantage with a dark meat such as turkey dark meat for consumer presentation. Where the compact has been frozen it has been found that adherence of the batter during cooking may be improved by ndeglazingw or giving a matt finish to the surface of the compact, e.g. by spraying briefly with warm water. It is thought that with a glazed surface a thin layer of water or ice between the compact and the batter may flash off during heating, or frying, causing the batter to bubble or lake off. Surplus batter may be removed from the compact by allowing it to fall off or by shaking the compact or blowing the coated compact, which may thet be passed through a flash fryer to consolidate the batter coating on the compact. It is envisaged that other methods or batters to produce a consolidated coating may be employed. A preferred form of the process according to the second aspect of the invention includes applying a coating of edible crumbs, e.g. breadcrumbs or potato crumbs to the batter coating oven proof breadcrumbs are commercially available. The crumb coating may be readily applied before consolidation of the batter coating. If a frozen compact has been utilised then it may be found that the batter has frozen on contact with the compact, in which case it is preferable to defrost the coating to improve adherence of the crumbs to the batter. Where a cylindrical compact is utilized the crumb coating may be applied to a fluid batter coating by rolling the battle coated compact down a sloping conveyor which bears a carpet of crumbs, the ends of the compact being coated by having a pile of crumbs suitably located at the bottom of the conveyor. The crumb coating may be subjected to gentle pressure, e.g. by rolling or passing through rollers, to consolidate it and improve adherence to the batter excess crumbs may be blown off and recycled. After applying the crumb coating the product may then be flash fried, this will produce an attractive brown of the Matter crumb coating and further consolidate the coating.It is envisaged that other suitable heat treatment may be employed e.g. hot air, It is envisaged that the batter and crumb coating8 may be applied as one by mixing the crtib into tha batter to form a granular mix, In another preferred method wherein the meat is extruded, the batter coating is applied by extrusion around the extruded compact, preferably by coextrusion with the compact or shortly after the extrusion of the compact in a continuous process, A batter of viscous or pasty consistency is desirable. An advantage here is that prior treatment of the compact to preserve its physical integrity e.g. Freezing,may be obviated.The compact and batter are preferably extruded into a casing and then frozen. The casing may then be stried off and the batter coating allowed to defrost sufficiently for application of a crumb layer where desired. Alternatively, the crumbs may be mi zed in the batter to produce a granular mix which is extruded around the the compact into a casing, the casing being stripped off after the product has been frozen. The crumb content will increase the viscosity s the coating.It will be understood that i9 the batter layer is sufficiently coherent the casing and the freezing step may both be dispensed with, the presence of the batter being enough to maintain the shape of the compact. The process of the present invention can be fully automated . and produces a product of attractive appearance, with a meat flavour derived only from the meat employed, the product being pleasant to eat and suffering only small loss of weight during cooking as compared with a similar uncoated product. Examples of products made in accordance with the invention are shown, by way of Example only, in the accompanying drawings, in which Fig. 1 is a plan of a turkey roll, Fig. 2 is a section along the line 2 2 of Fig. 1 Fig. 3 is a plan of an alternative turkey roll, Fig. 4 is a perspective view of the roll of Fig. 3, Fig. 5 is a plan of a turkeybirger, Fig. 6 is a perspective view, partially broken away, of the burger of Fig. 5. Referring now to the drawings, in which like parts are identified by like numerals, there is shown a product 1 comprising an extruded compact 2 formed from pieces of turkey flesh 3. The compact 2 is coated at least partially with a coating of a substantially oven proof batter 4 to which batter coating is adhered a layer of substantially oven proof breadcrumbs 5. The cylindrical turkey roll 1 of Figs 1 and 2 is coated all over with the batter coating 4 and the crumb layer 5 the turkey roll 1 of Figs. 3 and 4 has one of its ends 6 uncoated with the batter coating 4 and the crumb layer 5 thus to make the nature of the meat compact 2 available to inspection by a consumer the turkey burger 1 of Figs. 5 and 6 is formed by oblique cutting of a cylindrical compact 2 followed by application of the batter coating 4 and crumb layer .5 in the manner specified hereinbefore. Embodiments of the process of the present invention will now be described, by way of example only. Example 1 Skinless, boneless, turkey breast meat was tumbled in a quantity of brine solution for 40 minutes until substantially all of the brine was taken up by the meat and the meat was then allowed to stand for at least one hour to consolidate it. When dark turkey meat is used, tumblingsis generally effected for approximately 70 minutes. The meat was then extruded into a nylon casing, the distal end of which was clipped shut, using a vacuum filling machine available from L. Piereder of Canada to produce a cylindrical compact some 68.5cm long and 10cm diameter. The casing was clipped automatically at its proximal end and then the compact passed through an airblast freezing unit where it was cooled until its internal temperature reached I40C. The nylon casing was then removed and the compact cut with a bandshaw, this may be done automatically into pieces of a desired size.It is to be noted here that such pieces may be right cylindrical in shape to resemble a conventional roast or burger depending on the thickness of the pieces , or may be cut obliquely to the longitudinal axis thereby to produce an elliptical product of steak like appearance. After cutting, the frozen pieces were allowed to stand or sprayed with warm water until their external temperature was Just above the freezing. point of a batter mix and were dusted all over with a predusting four containing cornflourr thereafter the pieces were rotatably impaled upon coaxial prongs and immersed in a bath of liquid batter. The batter was substantially oven proof in character and was made up from batter mix supplied by RHM Ingredient Supplies ltd. under the Trade llark Pandora . It is to be noted here that any suitable coating method may be employed such as spraying, immersion or the like. It is preferred that a continuous batter envelope be formed about the compact for ease of application, etc. although it may be sometimes desirable not to coat the ends of the compact. After immersion, excess batter was blown off or allowed to drain and the batter coated compact was coated, preferably by rolling about the coaxial prongs, with substantially oven proof breadcrumbs Such breadorumbs are available under the Trade Mark nPandoran from SHM Ingredient Supplies ltd. After optionally subjecting the breadcrumbed pieces to consolidation under a pressure plate or roller, the breadcrumbed pieces were subjected to flash frying in oil at a temperature of from 1780 to 18200 for 50 to 59 seconds. This browned the batter and breadcrumbs and caused the batter to set. The flash fried pieces were then packed, by, for example, vacuum wrapping in suit able material, and were then ready for sale generally they would be deep frozen until required. It has been found convenient to use for battering crumbing, a cylindrical compact longer than the desired product for sale. After flash frying and freezing, the compact may then be cut into 2 or more pieces so that the required size is obtained for retail purposes. For example a 31b compact may be cut to two 1 1b compacts or a 3 1b compact may be cut to form 21b and 1 1b compacts. Furthermore, the meaty interior is then visible at at least one end of the roll to allow the purchaser to assess the quality of the product. Example 2 A 30 long cylinder of turkey meat was extruded into a nylon casing and blast frozen The casing was stripped off and the cylinder sawn into 6 lengths and passed onto a conveyor system where each length passed through a deglazing section where it was sprayed with warm water a dusting section inhere it was dusted with cornflour a batter coating section where it was passed through a curtain of batter, excess batter being blown off the batter coated compact was then rolled down an upwardly moving conveyor having a layer of crumbs continuously applied at the lower end thereof, a separate conveyor located at the bottom supported a stationary hett of crumbs into which the compact ploughed, angled plates ensured coating of the ends of the compact and caused the compact to turn to lie longitudinally with the conveyor, excess crumbs were blown off the compact passed onto a steel mesh conveyor which took it through a deep fat fryer held at a temperature of 192 to 1980C, with an immersion time of 35 to 40 seconds the consolidated crumbed and battered roll was then blast frozen and band sawed into halves to provide an exposed meat end the exposed end was glazed to give a sealed surface and improve its appearance and then packed in a iromat packaging machine manufactured by Kramer and Grebe. The batter coating effectively seals the product and considerably reduces weight loss as compared to a similar product not so coated. The following table gives the results of cooking turkey rolls, prepared by batter immersion according to the present invention, in a part ially wovered container in an oven for approximately it hours and, for comparison purposes, the results of similarly cooking an uncoated turkey roll. EMI12.1 tb SEP Initial SEP Final SEP Weight tb SEP Weight SEP Weight SEP Loss tb SEP gmBj SEP gms SEP tb Turkey SEP roll SEP completely tb coated SEP in SEP batter SEP and tb breadcrumbs SEP SEP SEP SEP 540 SEP 465 SEP SEP SEP 14 SEP tb Turkey SEP roll SEP coated SEP with tb batter SEP and SEP breadcrumbs tb except SEP at SEP one SEP end tb uncoated SEP surface SEP down tb wards SEP 650. SEP 525 SEP 18 tb Uncoated SEP turkey SEP roll SEP 510 SEP 380 SEP SEP SEP 26 tb It will be observed that the weight loss in the case of the uncoated product was almost double that of the completely coated product of the present invention. Even the only partially coated product lost significantly less weight than the uncoated product.Moreover the coated products of this invention were noticeably less dry, more succulent and of more pleasing flavour than the uncoated product. Whilst in the foregoing Specification specific procedures and structures have been set out in considerable detail for the purpose of illustrating the invention, it will be understood that such details may be varied widely without departing from the spirit of the invention as defined by the appendantClaims.