# Package wrapped in plastic film.

## Abstract
A package comprises a frozen article wrapped in a film comprising a matrix of thermoplastic polymer containing a uniformly distributed particulate organic solid formed from particles of defined dimensions.

## Claims
Claims 1. A package comprising a frozen article wrapped in a film comprising a matrix of a thermoplastic polymer containipg a uniformly distributed particulate organic solid, formed by introducing particulate organic solid comprising particles with a maximum dimension in the range 5b to 2 000 microns and a minimum dimension no less than 50 microns into the thermoplastic polymer forming the matrix belore the film is formed. 2. A package according to Claim 1 wherein the particulate organic solid comprises particles containing at least a predominant proportion by weight of particles having a maximum dimension in the range 500 to 2,000 microns and a minimum dimension no less than 200 microns. 3. A package according to Claim 1 or 2 in which the article is an animal carcass. 4. A package according to any one of Claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein the major part of the article is at a temperature of below 150C. 5. A package according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the matrix of the film is an olefin polymer. 6. A package according to Claim 5 wherein the polymer is a low density homo or copolymer of ethylene. 7. A package according to Claim 6 wherein the density of the homo polymer is less than 0.93g.cm3. 8. A package according to any one of the preceding claims where the particulate solid is one which forms a strong bond with the thermoplastic polymer which constitutes the matrix. 9. A package according to Claim 8 wherein the bond is such that the film is formed without any substantial production of voids resulting from the bond rupture giving rise to an opaque product or any rupturing of the film itself. 10. A package according to Claim 8 wherein the bond is such that the film may be stretched at room temperature in the longitudinal and transverse directions respectively, by at least 2 1 preferably at least 4 1 without the film itself rupturing as a consequence of bond rupture. 11. A package according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the particulate organic solid is a thermoplastics polymer. 12. A package according to Claim 11 wherein the particulate organic solid is a polyamide, a linear polyester, a polgearbonate, a polyacetal or a polyolefin. 13. A package according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the particulate organic solid is a high molecular weight high density polymer of ethylene. 14. A package according ot Claim 13 wherein the high molecular weight high density polymer of ethylene has a weight average molecular weight in excess of 150,000 and preferably in excess of 250,000 and has a density in excess of 0.93g.cm3 preferably in excess of 0.94g.cm 3. 15. A package according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the quantity of particulate organic solid is not in excess of 2 by weight based on the total weight of matrix polymer and additives including the particulate organic solid. 16. A package according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the thickness of the main body of the film is no greater than half of the dimension of at least a majority of the particles measured in the same direction.

## Description
PACKAGE WRAPPED IN PlASTIC FII The present invention relates to a plastics film article. Thermoplastic films are normally produced with a smooth glossy surface with a low co efficient of friction. When such films are used to wrap articles, problems may arise in the storage and handling of articles wrapped in such film due to the tendency of the wrapped articles to slide relative to one another. GB 1 533 027 proposed to overcome this problem by making a composite plastics film having foamed and unfoamed layers. Such a film is expensive to make and cheaper alternatives are desirable. There have been various proposals for modifying the surface properties of thermoplastic film for various purposes. GB 951 786 discloses the addition of a finely divided solid to thermoplastic material before it is stretched e.g. by bubble inflation i.e. blowing to give a film. The incorporation of such solid particles is said to enable the film to be written on. The only solid materials disclosed are inorganic materials such as calcium carbonate. Such inorganic fillers have the disadvantage that if the film is stretched beyond a certain point during film forming process, void formation may take place leading to the formation of an opaque product, which may be undesirable. It is also difficult to blow film satisfactorily i.e. without rupturing the bubble, if the polymer contains any substantial amount of such inorganic solids with a particle dimension in the direction of, and which is greater than, the thickness of the film being produced. Australian patent Specification 217 890 discloses the addition of finely divided particulate solid to thermoplastic material before it is formed into film. This specification mentions the addition of organic compounds, including polymers but exemplifies only inorganic materials. The finely divided material is added to reduce the tendency of thermoplastic film to block i.e. the tendency for two adjacent sheets to adhere together so as to be difficult to separate.The specification explains that blocking has no necessary relation with case of slip. It has been proposed to Lncorporate ultra high molecular weight high density polyethylene in powdered form into polyolefin film to impart anti slip properties to the film. We have found that when particulate high molecular weight high density polyethylene is incorporated into low density ethylene homopolymer the film formed by blowing shows no substantial advantage in anti slip properties at normal ambient temperatures. It is well known to preserve foodstuffs and other materials from deterioration by storing at a low temperature e.g. below 00C, more usually below 15 C. It is also well known to enclose such materials within a package formed from a thermoplastic film. When an article such as an animal carcass is stored in a cold sotre and wrapped in a thermoplastic film it is desirable for the film to have anti slip properties. There is a specific problem with frozen articles wrapped in thermoplastic film because moisture can condense on the film as liquid water or as ice particles which greatly increases the tendency of the film surfaces to slip past one another.As the co efficient of friction of conventional smooth thermoplastic film is very greatly reduced by the condensation of water vapour onto the plastic film it is particularly desirable to be able to minimise the reduction in the co efficient of friction under these conditions.We have now found that certain thermoplastic films which sho no real advantage in resistance to slip over conventional films at normal room temperature show considerable advantages over these conventional films when used to wrap articles which are stored at low temperature such that water vapour tends to condense on the film. Aezording to the present invention there is provided a package comprising a frozen article wrapped in a film comprising a matrix of a thermoplastic polymer containing a uniformly distributed particluate organic solid, formed by introducing particulate organic solid comprising particles with a maximum dimension in the range 50 to 2,000 microns and a minimum dimension of no less that 50 microns into the thermoplastic polymer forming the matrix, before the film is formed. The frozen articles which is wrapped in film may be for example a foodstuff. The invention is particularly useful when used for wrapping frozen animal carcasses stored in cold stores. The article is frozen i.e. the major part of the articles is at a temperature below 0 C or preferably below 150C. The film in which the article is wrapped comprises a matrix of a thermoplastic polymer. The matrix is preferably formed from an olefin polymer more preferably from a low density homo or copolymer of theylene. It is preferred to use an ethylene homo polymer having a density below 0.93g cm 3 or an ethylene copolymer such as a copolymer of ethylene and vinyl acetate, ethyl acrylate or butyl acrylate. It is preferred to use polymers which can be extruded to form film at temperatures below 2200 C, preferably below 200 C. Preferably the polymers have a Melt Flow Index of less than lOg lOmin preferably less than 3g lOmin but above O.lg lOmin as measured according toBS 2782 Method 720A Condition 4 i.e. 2.6kg load. The particulate organic solid may comprise any organic solid having the required particle size and physical properties under the conditions of the formation of the film containing the particles so that they retain their separate existence and not diffused into the matric polymer to form an homogenised product. Thus for example the particulate organic solid may comprise a thermoplastics polymer, a non thermoplastic high melting organic solid or an organic solid substantially resistant to heat softening, and which does not undergo substantial decomposition under the conditions of formation of the film. This last class of organic solids may be exemplified by modified and un modified starches, the modified starches including cross linked starches which have good heat stability. The particulate organic solid is preferably one which forms a strong bond with the thermoplastic which constitutes the matrix. By a strong bond we mean a bond which is sufficiently strong that the film may be formed from the mixture of matricx thermoplastic and particulate solid without any substantial weakening and rupture of the film itself occurring during its production as a result of any rupturing of the bond betwen the matrix and the organic solid. The particulate organic solid is most perferably such that the bond is strong enough to withstand the forces imposed during normal streching operations employed in film production to the extent that the film may be formed without any substantial production of voids resulting from the rupturing of the bond between the matrix and the organic solid giving rise to an opaque product or any rupturing of the film itself. In general the bond strength is preferably such that the film product may be stretched at room temperature in the longitudinal and transverse directions respectively, by at least 2 1 preferably at least 4 1 without the film itself rupturing as a consequence of bond rupture. The strong bond between the matrix and organic solid particles is preferably obtained by using thermoplastic polymer as the particulate organic solid. Exemplary of such thermoplastics polymers are polyamides, such as the nylons, linear polyesters such as polyethylene terephthalate, polycarbonates, polyacetals and polyolefins. The molecular weight of such thermoplastic polymer must of course be sufficiently high that the softening or melting characteristics of the solid particles under the conditions of film formation are such that they substantially retain their separate existence and are not diffused into the matrix polymer to form an homogentsed product. It is particularly preferred to use high molecular weight high density ethylene polymers In the latter case the weight average molecular wcight is preferably in excess of 15,000 more preferably in excess of 2SO,O 0 and the denisty is preferably in excess of 0.93g.cm 3 more preferably in excess of 0.94g.cm3 but the Melt Flow Index should be less than O.lg 10min as measured according to BS 2782, Method 720A using Condition 4 i.e. a load of 2.16kg. The particulate organic solid may be incorporated into the matrix polymer at any convenient stage before film formation. The particulate organic solid incorporated into the matrix polymer comprises particles having a maximum dimension in the range 50 to 250,000 and the denisty is preferably in excess of 0.93g.cm3 more preferably in excess of 0.94g.cm3 but the Melt Flow Index should beO.lg lOmin as measured according to BS 2782, Method 720A usingCondition 4 i.e. a load of 2.16kg. The particulate organic solid may be incorporated into the matrix polymer at any convenient stage before film formation. The particulate organic solid incorporated into the matrix polymer comprises particles having a maximum dimension in the range 50 to 2,000 microns and a minimum dimension not less than 50 microns and preferably at least a predominant proportion by weight of particles having a maximum dimension in the range 500 to 2,000 microns and a minimum dimension of not less than 200 microns. The choice of particle size is determined principally by the thickness of the main body of film in the final product which should be less than, preferably no greater than half of, the dimension of at least a majority of the particles measured in the same direction in the final product so that the majority of particles inevitably extend beyond the main body of the film. The films employed in the present invention will have a thickness in the main body of the film which is less than 1,000 microns, preferably below 200 microns but above 20 microns, preferably above 35 microns, more preferably above 50 microns. The quantity of particulare organic solid is preferably not in excess of 2 by weight based on the total weight of matrix polymer plus additives including the particulate organic solid and is more preferably in the range 0.2 to 1 by weight. The film may be formed by any of the known methods but is preferably produced by the well known film blowing process in which polymer is extruded through a die to form a tube which is inflated with air to give a bi axially stretched polymer film. The film may for example be stretched sufficiently to give a film of thickness 50 microns in the main body of the film. It will be appreciated that the die opening must be chosen so as not to interfere undesirably with the passage of the organic solid particles during extrusion of the film precursor. It will be appreciated also that the organic solid particles may soften or partially melt during the film forming process but not so that they lose their separate existence or diffuse into the matrix polymer to form an homogeneous product. Typical film forming conditions which may be employed for an ethylene copolymer matrix thermoplastic containing a high molecular weight high density ethylene polymer would be Extrusion melt temperature 1500C to 2200c. Blow ratio at least 1.5 1 preferably at least 2 1. Longitudinal stretch ratio at least 1.5 1 preferably at least 2 1. The present invention will now be further described with reference to the following Example, which is intended to illustrate but in no way limit the scope of the invention Example 1 In accordance with the invention 100 parts of a low density ethylene homopolymer of density 0.92g.cm3 and MFI 1.0 as measured according to BS 2782 Method 720A Condition 4 and sold by BXL PlasticsLimited under the designation DFDG 4262 and 0.5 part of a high molecular weight high density polyethylene having a density of 0.954g.cm3, an MFI of 2.5g l0min measured according to BS 2782Method 720A employing condition number 7 i.e. 21.6kg load having a weight average molecular weight of 290,000 and comprising particles having maximum dimension in the range 50 to 2,000 microns a minimum dimension no less than 50 microns, and a predominant proportion by weight of the particles having a maximum dimension in the range 500 to 2,000 microns and a minimum dimension no less than 200 microns and sold by BP Chemlcals Limited under the designation of Rigidex H020 54P Rigidex Ls a trade mark were mixed together and extruded at a melt temperature of 1700C on a 75mm Shaw extruder fitted with a 150mmGloenco annular die. A blow ratio of 2.6 1 was used with a longitudi.nal stretch ratio of 3 1 and an output rate of 30kg hour. Film was produced as 620mm layflat st a film substance weight of 90g m2 and main body film thickness of about 100 microns. The co efficient of dynamic friction in two samples of the film was measured at 170C with the film surfaces a dry and b covered with a condensation mist. The results are given in Table 1.Comparative Test A This is a comparative test not in accordance with the invention the co efficient of friction between two samples of film made as inExample 1 was measured at 200C, the film surface was dry. The results are given in Table 1.Comparative Test B This is a comparative test not in accordance with the invention. Film was produced as in Example 1 but without the incorporation of the high density high molecular weight polyethylene. The coefficient of friction was measured as before and the results are given in Table 1. Table 1Temperature Surface Condition Co efficient of Friction Film Film no additives 0.5 powder 200C Dry 0.6 Test B 0.6 Test A a 170C Dry 0.4 Test B 0.6 Example 1 b 17 C Condensation Mist 0.1 Test B 0.3 Example 1 Example 2 A film was made as in Example 1 but using a low density ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer containing 12 by weight of units derived from vinyl acetate and having a density of 0.94g.cm3 and a Melt Flow Index of 0.35g 10min insead of 1.0 . The co efficient of dynamic friction was measured at 170C with the film surfaces a dry and b covered in condensation mist. The results are given in Table 2.Example 3 A film was made and tested as in Example 1 but with the following differences. The matrix polymer was ethylene butyl acrylate copolymer containing 3 by weight of units derived from butyl acrylate, having aMFI of 0.2g lOmin and supplied by Unifos Kemi AB under the designationNEWS 0320. The extruder melt temperature was 1800C and the film had a substance weight of 70gum 2 and main body thickness of 75 microns. The results are given in Table 2.Example 4 A film was made and tested as in Example 3 but using an ethylene ethylacrylate copolymer containing 152 by weight of units derived from ethylacrylate, hving a MFI of 1.5g 1Amin and supplied by BP ChemicalsBelgium under the designation DPDM 6182. The results are given in Table 2.Comparative Test C As Example 2 but without the high molecular weight high density polyethylene.Comparative Tests D and E As Examples 3 and 4 but without the high molecular weight high density polyethylene. Table 2Experiment Surface Condition Co efficient of FrictionExample 2 Dry 0.8 Condensation Mist 0.3Test C Dry 0.3 Condensation Mist 0.1Example 3 Dry 0.6 Condensation Mist 0.3Test D Dry 0.5 Condensation Mist 0.1Example 4 Dry 0.9 Condensation Mist 0.3Test E Dry 0.7 Condensation Mist 0.1 All experiments carried out at 170C. Frozen packages in accordance with the invention such as frozen animal carcasses show a significant improvement in slip resistance.