# Mandibular electromyograph.

## Abstract
A system 10 for measuring and displaying the coordination, duration of and interval between contractions of the masticatory muscles. Several electrodes 12 , each associated with a masticatory muscle, generate signals responsive to muscle contraction. The electrode outputs are amplified, rectified 150 and filtered 130, 136, 142 , and then applied to several circuits, depending upon the operating mode selected. In a first mode, the filtered outputs are integrated 280 during each muscle contraction and displayed by an electronic bar graph 38, 40, 42, 44 . The output is also applied to a threshold circuit 22 which identifies the start and finish of the muscle contraction. The output of the threshoid circuit is then processed by a timing circuit 328 which determines and displays 46 60 in digital form the duration 46 52 of the muscle contraction and the interval 54 60 between contractions. The system operates in a second mode in the same manner as in the first mode, except that an analog signal is derived from the digitized interval signal and applied to the bar graph 38 44 in place of the integrated output. In a third mode, the filtered output is applied to a logarithmic amplifier 234 262 which drives the bar graph 38 44 so that the logarithm of the electrode voltage amplitude is displayed. The output of the threshold circuit 22 is also processed by a second timing circuit which determines and displays 46 52 in digital form the time lapse between the contraction of the first muscle to contract and the contraction of the remaining muscles, thereby providing an indication of muscle coordination.