# Semiconductor device having a polycrystalline semiconductor film.

## Abstract
In a semiconductor device, a polycrystalline semiconduc tor film 2 is formed on an amorphous or polycrystalline sub strate 1 . To permit large area or elongate semiconductor de vices to be formed, the semiconductor material of the film 2 has a crystal system with the diamond structure, which struc ture has at least one of the 100 preferred orientation and the 110 preferred orientation. The characteristics of the semi conductor device can be improved. The polycrystalline semi conductor film is formed by vacuum evaporation under a high vacuum of less than 1 10 ⁸ Torr pressure.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A semiconductor device comprising a polycrystalline semiconductor film 2 which is formed on an amorphous or polycrystalline substrate 1 characterized in that the semiconductor material of said film 2 has a crystal system of a diamond structure, the structure having a 100 preferred orientation, a 110 preferred orientation or a mixed 100 and 110 preferred orientation. 2. A semiconductor device according to claim 1 wherein said semiconductor material is silicon. A A semiconductor device according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein said film 2 has been formed by vacuum evaporation under a high vacuum of below 1 x 10 8 Torr pressure. 4. A semiconductor device according to any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein said film 2 has a thickness of at least 500 nm. 5. A semiconductor device according to any one of claims I to 4 wherein in said film 2 a region 4 in which carriers move is disposed at a surface of said film 2 opposite the surface facing said substrate 1 .

## Description
Semiconductor device having a polycrystalline semiconductor film This invention relates to a semiconductor device employing a polycrystalline semIconductor film on a substrate. In recent years, development of an elongate active device array and large area active device array of large area has been sought. These active devices are intended to be used as a photosensor for reading a picture in a facsimile transmitter, and for the driver circuit of a liquid crystal display panel or electroluminescence display panel which serves as a flat display panel to replace a cathode ray tube. Ordinary semiconductor devices employing a single crystal of silicon are limited in size by the size of the single crystal silicon wafer serving as a parent material. On the other hand, thin film transistors etc. have been attempted, but none has yet attained satisfactory characteristics. Examples of polycrystalline silicon devices are described in the following references. None of these devices, however, can achieve satisfactory characteristics if formed as a film at a low temperature. No semiconductor device having satisfactory characteristics has been realized on a glass substrate or the like. 1 THIN SOLID SWIMS, vol. 35, June 1976, no. 2, pp. 149 153, 2 ELECTRICAL DESIGN NEWS, vol. 18, no. 13, July 1973, pp. 30 31 5 IBM TECHNICAL DISCLOSURE BUTJLESIS, vol. 14 no. 10, March 1972, pp. 2900 2901, 4 Applied Physics Betters, vol. 35, 15th July 1979, no. 2, pp. 173 175, 5 IBM TECHNICAL DISCLOSURE BULLETIN, vol. 17 no. 8, January 1975, pp. 2455 2456 6 SOLID STATE ELECTRONICS, vol. 15, no. 10 October 1972, pp. 1103 1106 An object of this invention is to provide a thin film semiconductor device which can be produced even under low temperature conditions, such as a deposition temperature of, for example, below 700 C, and which exhibits good operating characteristics. The present invention is defined in the claims. With the present invention, a semiconductor device can be produced on a substrate made of glass or the like having a comparatively low softening point, and an evaporation process can be used, allowing large area or elongate semiconductor devices to be fabricated readily. The polycrystalline semiconductor film may be formed by vacuum evaporation under a high vacuum of below 1 x 10 8 Torr pressure. In the evaporation a deposition temperature of 400 7000C may suffice. An embodiment of this invention will now be described by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 1 is a graph showing the relationship between the thickness and grain size of an evaporated film, Figures 2a 2h are sectional views sh6wing a process for producing a MOSF2U metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistor using a polycrystalline semiconductor film, and Figure 3 is a graph showing the drain current versus drain voltage characteristic of a MOSFET embodying this invention. In our patent application no.we describe a technique for proQucing a semiconductor device using a silicon film pro ucThd by evaporation under ultra high vacuum. We have made further investigations of the crystallinity of a polycrystalline silicon film formed by the evaporation in the ultra high vacuum, and information described below has been obtained.It has also been discovered that improvement of operating characteristics can be achieved. The formation of a thin film in ultra high vacuum is the best process among those presently available for forming thin films, but as regards essential points, the results obtained apply similarly to the thin films produced by the other processes. Likewise, although the results referred to concern silicon film the same applies to different semiconductor films, such as germanium etc. In the initial stage of the growth b f a film, the portion which has initially adhered as an amorphous layer is subject to crystal growth and turns polycrystalline with the subsequent growth of the film. When the film has been formed to a sufficient thickness, it crystallizes and a polycrystalline lyer grows from the beginningFrom this, it can be understood that a factor hindering crystallization exists in the vicinity of the interface between a substrate and the silicon film. It is accordingly concluded that, even when in the vicinity of the interface owing to the subsequent growth of the film crystallization has occurred so that the whole layer becomes polycrystalline, the crystallinity in the vicinity of the interface is worse than that of the surface layer of the film.In order to produce a good thin film semiconductor device, it is thus desirable to arrange a channel on the surface side having better crystallinity. If the silicon film is grown by evaporation at a substrate temperature of 40000 70000 in ultra high vacuum, crystal grains whose jloof faces are substantially parallel to the substrate plane and crystal grains whose 110 faces are substantially parallel to the substrate plane coexist in the surface layer if the film thickness is at least 0.5 Sm. When the thickness of the film exceeds 1 Fm, the growth can be controlled so that the crystal grains whose 100 faces are substantially parallel to the substrate plane becomes overwhelmingly more numerous within the surface layer.In this specification, the state in which the crystal grains with 10Q f aces substantially parallel to the substrate plane are predominant shall be termed the 100 preferred orientation sometimes expressed as the 100 texture . A semiconductor device using a polycrystalline semiconductor film whose major surface is a surface having the 100 preferred orientation has good characteristics In addition, the variations of the characteristics can be reduced. Although a polycrystalline semiconductor film of the 100 preferred orientation is most preferable, the same effect can be achieved even with a polycrystalline semiconductor film whose major surface is a surface having the 110 preferred orientation. In addition, a polycrystalline semiconductor film having the mixed orientation of 100 and 110 may be useful. As previously stated, it is favourable that a region in which carriers move for example, the channel in the BET is disposed on the surface side of the polycrystalline film. The structure of the film can be fully confirmed by electron diffraction, or Array diffraction. Silicon, germanium etc.which are semiconductor materials having the diamond structure exhibit the same tendency. Figure 1 shows the dependency of grain size in the surface layer on the thickness of the film.Since, in the temperature range mentioned above, the substrate temperature dependency of the grain size may be considered almost nil, a case where the substrate temperature is 600 C is typically illustrated in Figure 1. The illustrated curve corresponds to results obtained by measuring the grain size in the thickness direction of an evaporated film 1.4 m thick. The foregoing study of the structure and grain size of a polycrystalline film shows that the grain size can be increased and the structure can be made more favourable by increasing the thickness of the film. A film thickness of at least 0.5 Fm may be used for semiconductor devices.A film thickness of f least 1Wm is more preferred.The polycrystalline semiconductor film.thus obtained can have a carrier mobility of at least 1 cm2 V sec. Needless to say, an impurity can be present in the film as may be needed. The substrate can be an amorphous or polycrystalline substrate such as glass or Al203 or the like ceramics. A glass substrate is most useful from the point of view of price. A lighttransmitting substrate can also be used, e.g. as the substrate of a photodiode or the like in which light enters the substrate side. One method of producing the polycrystalline semiconductor film of a device according to this invention is as follows. A vacuum evaporator which can achieve ultrahigh vacuum may be a conventional evaporator having an ultra high vacuum device. The degree of vacuum during evaporation is made as high as less than 1 x 10 8 Torr pressure. 02 especially in the gas remaining during evaporation affects the characteristics of the product adversely, and hence the partial pressure of oxygen is preferably made less than 1 x 10 9 Torr. The deposition rate is preferably in the range 1,000 hour to 10,000 hour. In order to fabricate a semiconductor device by working the polycrystalline silicon film several steps must be performed. Heat treatment temperatures in these steps have been kept lower than 8200C which is the softening point of very hard glass. This is because the present invention is most useful for producing a semiconductor device on.a glass substrate or the like. If employing a glass substrate of low softening point, it is also possible to keep the temperatures still lower, for example to be below 550 C. A MOS field effect transistor will now be described as an example of a semiconductor device of the invention. To form a gate insulator, thermal oxidation of a silicon substrate is generally relied on.Since, however, thermal oxidation requires a temperature of at least 1,000 C, it cannot be used for the present purpose. Therefore, an SiO2 film is formed by chemical vapor deposition by reacting and and 02 at a temperature of at least 30000 and at most 50000 or by reacting SiH4 and NO, at a temperature of at least 40000 and at most 80000 and the SiO2 film thus formed is employed as the gate insulator. SiOS films formed by chemical vapor deposition have in the past been used for passivation, and no example has been empl byedas the gate insulator. p impurity diffused layers or n impurity diffused layers have previously been made by thermal diffusion in order to form a source region and a drain region. Since, however this requires a heat treatment at about 1,15000 it cannot be used for the present purpose. The present invention can employ a method in whick p impurity layers or n impurity layers are formed by ion implantation instead of the thermal diffusion. After ion im lantation, a heat treatment is conducted for electrical activation, the heat treatment temperature being kept below the softening point of the substrate used.For instance, there can be implanted ions, e.g. BF2 which can be highly activated by a heat treatment at a low temperature of approximately 55000 and B ions, and thereafter heat treatment can be performed at a temperature of approximately 50000 60000 immediately before the reverse anneal phenomenon occurs.While P ions, As ions etc. are not so good as ions from the point of view of the reverse anneal phenomenon, they can be sufficiently activated by heat treatment at approximately 50000 60000. Accordingly, both the p impurity layers and the p impurity layers can be formed with a low temperature step of 500 C 60000 or so. Of course, the heat treatment may well be carried out at a temperature of 80000 if a substrate, such as very hard glass substrate, with a softening point higher than 80000 is used. With this method of manufacture, it is possible to obtain a semiconductor device of large area or great length in which the mobility of carriers is at least 1 cmê V.sec. The embodiment of this invention shown in Figures 2a 2h, will now be described. In this case, an channel MOS field effect transistor is fabricated by forming a polycrystalline silicon film on a glass substrate and providing channel in the surface layer of the film. First, the substrate is installed in a vacuum evaporator which can achieve ultra high vacuum.The evaporator may be a conventional one. A silicon film 2 is deposited to a thickness of 1Wm on the substrate 1 of hard glass Corning 7059 Glass by performing vacuum evaporation under the conditions of a substrate temperature of 600 C, a degree of vacuum during evaporation of 8 x 10 9 Torr, a partial pressure of oxygen during evaporation of 1 x 10 10 Torr, and a deposition rate of 5,000 hour figure 2a . he silicon film 2 formed is of p type polycrystalline silicon slightly doped with boron, and has a carrier mobility of about 2 cmê V sec When the crystalline structure in the surface layer of this film was investigated, it was found that the polycrystalline silicon film had a strong 100 preferred orientation and that the 110 preferred orientation coexisted weakly. In other words, it was found that, in the surface layer, Dredominantly the crystal grains constituting the polycrystalline film had their 100 faces or faces close thereto located parallel to the substrate plane, while some crystal grains whose 110 faces or faces close thereto were parallel to the substrate plane coexisted. It was conÅaectured that at least half of the grains had their 4100 faces located parallel to the major surface of the substrate. Subsequently, an SiOz film 3 is deposited to a thickness of 5,000 A at a substrate temperature of 40000 by chemical vapor deposition Figure 2b . been, as shown in Figure 2c, the SiO2 film 3 is provided with windows for source and drain regions.The size of each window was 300 x 200 cam and the gate length was 20 Wm. Subsequently p ions at an energy level of 100 keV are implanted at a dosage of 1 x 1016 cm2, and the resultant substrate is heat treated at 60000 in an N2 atmosphere for 30 minutes, to form n layers 4 in the source and drain regions Figure 2d . The depth of each n layer was 2,000 . In the next step, the SiO2 is removed to leave a field oxide film 5 as shown in Figure 2e.An SiO2 film 6 is deposited for a gate oxide film to a thickness of 7,500 A by chemical vapor deposition Figure 2f . Holes for electrode contacts each having the dimensions of 100 x 80 m are provided as shown in Figure 2g by photo etching.After evaporating Al onto the whole surface of the resultant substrate, the Al is worked by photoetching to form a source electrode 7, a drain electrode 8 and a gate electrode 9 Figure 2h . Thereafter, heat treatment at 400 C for 30 minutes is carried out in an H2 atmosphere. By these steps, a thin film MOS field effect transistor of the structure in which the channel is provided in the surface layer of the polycrystalline silicon film is produced. This semiconductor device exhibits good and stable characteristics as a transistor. Figure 3 shows a characteristic at from temperature of a MOSSES which was manufactured experimentally. The characteristic is the drain current 1D versus drain voltage fuzz chara VDS characteristic with the gate voltage VG being a parameter. MOSFETs were produced using polycrystallineSi films having various structures. The threshold voltages o f these MOSFETs were compared, and the results are listed in the following table. TableEMI14.1 tb SEP Preferred SEP hick SEP SEP Thresh SEP Variat SEP Deposition tb SEP orientation SEP ness SEP old SEP ion SEP of SEP temperature tb SEP m SEP SEP voltage SEP threshold SEP C SEP tb SEP voltages tb 100 SEP Strong SEP I SEP SEP SEP 5 SEP SEP 15 SEP 600 SEP tb 4100 SEP SEP Strong SEP 1 SEP SEP 5 SEP SEP 15 SEP 600 tb 110 SEP Medium tb 4100 SEP SEP Medium SEP 0.7 SEP SEP 5 SEP SEP 15 SEP 600 tb C110 SEP SEP Nedium SEP tb 100 SEP Weak SEP 0.55 SEP 10 SEP SEP 20 SEP 600 tb 110 SEP Medium tb 110 SEP Medium SEP 0.5 SEP 15 SEP SEP 20 SEP 600 tb SEP Random tb SEP orientation SEP 0.3 SEP 45 SEP 20 SEP 600 SEP tb SEP Amorphous SEP 1.0 SEP SEP incapable SEP SEP 350 tb SEP of SEP high tb SEP speed tb SEP operation tb Although above examples describe N0SFE s, the invention is applicable to other semiconductor devices, for example, bipolar transistors, diodes, and ICs integrated circuits or LSIs large scale integrated circuits and such devices may be present in combination. Although p type silicon has been described n type siliconcan be produced by doping the s ilicon film with an appropriate impurity.