# Process for producing a low molecular weight peptide composition and nutrient agent containing the same

## Claims
Verfahren zur Herstellung einer ein niedriges Molekulargewicht aufweisenden Peptid Zusammensetzung, gekennzeichnet durch die Verfahrensschritte Dispergieren von Proteinrohmaterial aus Eiweiß in Wasser in einer Konzentration von 5 bis 20 g v , Einstellen des pH Werts der Dispersion mittels einer Säure auf einen Bereich von 1 bis 4, gleichzeitiges oder aufeinander folgendes Zugeben von mindestens zwei sauren Proteasen zu der Dispersion und Durchführen einer enzymatischen Proteolyse während 8 bis 72 h bei einer Temperatur von 25 C 60 C unter Herstellung einer hauptsächlich auf Dipeptiden und Tripeptiden basierenden, ein niedriges Molekulargewicht aufweisenden Peptid Zusammensetzung bei gleichzeitiger Unterdrückung der Bildung von freien Aminosäuren auf 20 Gew. oder weniger, wobei der Gehalt an den Peptiden mit einem Molekulargewicht von mindestens 700 in dem enzymatischen Proteolyseprodukt 20 Gew. oder weniger beträgt.

## Description
This invention relates to a process for producing a protein or low molecular weight peptide composition mainly based on dipeptides and tripeptides. Heretofore, particularly in the food industry, peptides and amino acids have been produced through enzymatic hydrolysis of protein material. However, such attempts have been limited to the enzymatic hydrolysis of protein material for solubilization thereof and the conversion of protein material to lower polymers with a molecular weight of higher than several thousand serviceable in a nutritional form. Attention has been paid to the attribute of proteolytic products, but not to their molecular weight as such. For example, from FR A 22 36 423 there is known a process for preparing flavoring agents on the basis of meat by proteolysis which is characterized by partially degrading animal meat proteins with proteolytic enzymes. According to the teachings of said FR A 22 36 423 for the proteolysis there must not be used at least two acid proteases. Further there are obtained flavoring agents with a molecular weight of from 1000 to 13.000, while according to the invention there are desired low molecular weight peptide nutrients with molecular weight of below 1000. From said FR A 22 36 423 nothing can be gathered how to obtain products according to the invention. Making researches on the digestion and absorption of the enzymatic hydrolysis product of protein material, the inventors have found that by 1 reducing the average molecular weight to 1,500 or lower, preferably 700 or lower, 2 reducing the content of those peptides having a molecular weight of 2,000 or higher, preferably 1,000 or higher to 20 by weight or less, and 3 reducing the content of free amino acids to 20 by weight or less, that is, by producing a low molecular weight peptide composition mainly based on dipeptides and tripeptides, a number of advantages are obtained as described below. Conventional peptized products have either a low degree of proteolysis or an extremely high content of free amino acids. Differently stated, because of varying degrees of proteolysis, they contain from those peptides having a molecular weight of several ten thousand to free amino acids. Some products have an average molecular weight of higher than several thousand and some contain more than 50 of free amino acids. The inventors have found that when used as a nutrient agent, a peptide composition which is limited within a narrow range of molecular weight is more effective and efficient in digestion and absorption or in physiological alimentation than conventional products such as solubilized protein materials, peptide mixtures having a wide distribution of molecular weight, or amino acid mixtures. The low molecular weight peptide composition obtained according to the process of the present invention to be included in a nutrient agent is mainly based on dipeptides and tripeptides and contains 20 by weight or less of peptides having a molecular weight of 700 or higher and 20 by weight or less of free amino acids, said composition being produced by controlling the molecular weight of protein raw material as specified above. Recently, it is believed that dipeptides and tripeptides are readily absorbed enterally. The inventors have confirmed this fact in vivo experiments for a mixture of these peptides as described in detail hereinafter. The inventors have also found that although free amino acid mixtures tend to be unevenly absorbed due to antagonism or reduced solubility, low molecular weight peptides are free of such uneven absorption. Accordingly, such low molecular weight peptide compositions as described above are preferred as a protein source for a nutrient agent. As no importance has been attached to the low molecular weight peptides which have apparent utility as mentioned above, any effective process for the production thereof has not been developed. It is therefore, a primary object of the present invention to provide a process for producing a low molecular weight peptide composition mainly based on dipeptides and tripeptides, that is, having an average molecular weight of about 400 and a free amino acid content of 20 by weight or less. Another object of the present invention is to provide a process for producing a low molecular peptide composition as specified above from a protein raw material from any suitable source in high yields. A further object of the present invention is to provide a process for producing a low molecular peptide composition in which amino acid absorption antagonism is minimized and the content of free amino acids is reduced. According to the present invention, there is provided a process for producing a low molecular weight peptide composition, characterized by the steps of dispersing protein raw material from any suitable source in water at a concentration of 5 20 w v , adjusting the pH of the dispersion to 1 4 with an acid, adding at least two acid proteases to the dispersion simultaneously or sequentially, and permitting enzymatic proteolysis to take place for 8 72 hours at a temperature of 25 60 C, thereby producing a low molecular weight peptide composition mainly based on dipeptides and tripeptides while suppressing the formation of free amino acids to 20 by weight or less. Also, the present invention, provides a process for producing a low molecular peptide composition such that the contents of free amino acids and those peptides having a molecular weight of at least 700 in the enzymatic proteolysis product are individually 20 or less. In the prior art, no discussion has been made on low molecular peptides composed mainly of dipeptides and tripeptides which have many advantages as concluded from the test results shown in Tables I to IV. Making an attempt to produce such low molecular peptides from a protein raw material from any suitable source, the inventors have found the following facts see Table V . The invention will be more fully understood by referring to the following examples which are set forth by way of illustration and not by way of limitation. For instance, the proteases used herein may be selected from those proteases from fungous and bacterial sources such as Rhizopus. Aspergillus, Penicillium and Bacillus genus proteases. Also effective are papain and bromelain from plant sources. In addition, special proteases, for example, carboxypeptidases and amino peptidases, more particularly carboxy or amino di or tri peptidase may, of course, be selected. 50 g of dry egg white protein content 82 by weight was dissolved in 1 liter of water, the resulting solution was adjusted to pH 3 with aqueous hydrochloric acid, 1 g of Molsin and 1 g of Sanprose F were simultaneously added thereto, and thereafter the reaction was effected at 40 C for 24 hours while keeping the solution at pH 3. After the reaction, the solution was heated at 100 C for 10 minutes to deactivate the proteases and then subjected to centrifugal separation at 3,000 r.p.m. 1,500 G for 10 minutes. The insolubles were removed and the supernatant was freeze dried. This product had a yield of 93.2 based on the starting protein material and an average molecular weight of 340. The gel filtration of the product showed that more than 88 by weight of the product had a molecular weight of lower than 700. It should be noted that those substances having a molecular weight of lower than 700 cannot be identified by the gel filtration process. The content of free amino acids in the product was 8.5 by weight. The procedure of Example I was repeated except that 1 g of Molsin was first added and after 8 hours, 1 g of Sanprose F was added, and the reaction was effected for a further 10 hours. The resulting product had a yield of 93.9 , an average molecular weight of 350, and a free amino acid content of 8.1 . The gel filtration thereof showed that more than 90 had a molecular weight of lower than 700. The procedure of Example I was repeated except that 1 g of pepsin and 1 g of Molsin were simultaneously added. The resulting product had an yield of 96.1 , an average molecular weight of 510, and a free amino acid content of 7.8 by weight. The gel filtration thereof showed that more than 86 had a molecular weight of lower than 700. The procedure of Example I was repeated except that 1 g of pepsin was first added and after 6 hours, 1 g of Molsin was added, and the reaction was effected for a further 10 hours. The resulting product had an yield of 98.3 , an average molecular weight of 550, and a free amino acid content of 7.3 by weight. The gel filtration thereof showed that more than 83 had a molecular weight of lower than 700. The procedure of Example I was repeated except that 1 g of pepsin and 1 g of Sanprose F were simultaneously added. The resulting product had an yield of 94 , an average molecular weight of 430, and a free amino acid content of 8.7 by weight. The gel filtration thereof showed that more than 90 had a molecular weight of less than 700. The procedure of Example I was repeated except that 1 g of pepsin was first added and after 6 hours, 1 g of Sanprose F was added, and the reaction was effected for a further 10 hours. The resulting product had an yield of 96 , an average molecular weight of 410, and a free amino acid content of 9.2 by weight. The gel filtration showed that more than 91 had a molecular weight of lower than 700. The procedure of Example I was repeated except that 0.25 g of pepsin was first added, after 3 hours 1 g of Molsin was added, and then after further 3 hours 1 g of Sanprose F was added. The reaction was effected for a further 10 hours, followed by the same treatment as in Example I. The resulting product had an yield of 95 , an average molecular weight of 370, and a free amino acid content of 11.3 by weight. The gel filtration showed that more than 93 had a molecular weight of lower than 700. In the above examples, the products are evaluated by the following methods. Analysis of nitrogen is made by the Kjeldahl method. The quantitative analysis of amino group is made by the TNBS Tri Nitro Benzene Sulphonic acid method. The complete hydrolysis of the product is a hydrolysis in 6N HCl at 110 C for 24 hours. A solution of the product is treated with basic copper carbonate to form copper complexes with amino acids and peptides, which are adsorbed by an anion exchange resin, through which a 0.05 M boric acid buffer solution is passed to elute the free amino acids, which are in turn, subjected to quantitive analysis by means of an automatic amino acid analyzer. It is to be noted that the quantitative analysis of acidic amino acids was conducted by placing the product directly in the amino acid analyzer because acidic amino acids are not eluted with the boric acid buffer solution. Accurate quantitative analysis can be made as peptides have no influence on acidic amino acids at their separation position in the amino acid analyzer. The percentage of peptides having a molecular weight of 700 or lower is determined using Sephadex G 10 having the minimum fractional molecular weight. Although egg white is used as the protein raw material in the above examples, other protein raw materials may be used, for instance, casein, soybean, wheat gluten, fish meal, Chlorella, yeast protein, etc. as well as protein like material having specific amino acids enriched by the plastein reaction. Particularly when low molecular weight peptides are used in nutrient agents, egg white is the best because of its amino acid constitution. The protein raw material is dissolved in water to a substrate concentration of 5 20 w v . Lower concentrations are unsuitable for practical operation while higher concentrations result in an extremely viscous solution. Proteases are added in an amount sufficient to give a desired degree of proteolysis, that is, at least 1 by weight, preferably 2 5 by weight based on the substrate. The reaction time depends on substrate concentration, protease amount, reaction temperature and the like. The reaction must be terminated before the resulting peptide composition has been hydrolyzed to amino acids. The reaction temperature depends on the optimum temperature of a particular protease used. The acid used herein may be either a strong acid or a weak acid. For the purpose of comparison with the proteolysis by the combination of two proteases as used in the examples according to the present process, the results of proteolysis by a single protease are shown in Table I. The comparison of data between the examples and Table I reveals that the present process ensures to produce a low molecular weight peptide composition from various protein sources in high yields, which composition is mainly based on dipeptides and tripeptides or those peptides having a molecular weight on the order of 500 or lower, the content of free amino acids is 10 by weight or less so that the amino acid absorption antagonism is minimized, and the content of relatively high molecular peptides having a molecular weight of higher than 700 is 20 or less. The low molecular peptide composition mainly based on dipeptides and tripeptides prepared according to the claimed process and used in the nutrient agent will be described in detail particularly with respect to its effectiveness and preparation. As no attention has heretofore been paid to those peptides which are rendered low molecular in a limited range as in the present invention, any process for preparing the same has not been developed. The inventors have developed a process for producing a controlled low molecular weight peptide composition in high yields in a stable manner, as illustrated in the above and following examples. Protein raw material is dissolved in water at a concentration of 5 20 w v . The pH of the solution is adjusted to 1 4 with an acid. Any two proteases selected from pepsin. Molsin and Sanprose F are simultaneously or sequentially added to the substrate each in an amount of 0.5 5 by weight. The reaction is effected at a temperature of 25 60 C for 20 30 hours. After the proteases are deactivated, the reaction solution is subjected to centrifugal separation and the resulting supernatant is dried. The product is obtained in a very high yield on the basis of the protein raw material, has an average molecular weight of about 550 300, and contains about 5 20 by weight of free amino acids and 20 by weight or less of those peptides having a molecular weight of 700 or higher. It should be understood that the protein raw material used herein may include not only protein materials from animal, plant and microbial sources, but also a protein like material having specific amino acids enriched by the plastein reaction. The thus produced low molecular peptide composition is used as a protein or nitrogen source in a nutrient agent prepared according to the present invention. In order to demonstrate the effectiveness of such a nutrient agent, diets containing a nitrogen source composed of the same amino acid constituents were prepared as shown in the following Table II. In Table II, the nitrogen sources have the following compositions. A group of 10 rats of Wistar strain was allowed to feed on each of these diets for two weeks. The results are shown in Table III. In Table III, the food efficiency represents the ratio of a weight gain food intake value of each of compositions II, III and IV to that of composition I provided that the latter is unity. The data in Table II proves that the diet containing low molecular peptide composition II mainly based on dipeptides and tripeptides is highly effective in many respects as described below. In order to find why these differences are derived, an absorption experiment in vivo was performed using different nitrogen sources. Illustratively, only a nitrogen source is forcedly tube fed into the stomach of each of five Wistar rats which have been starved for 24 hours. The rats each are let blood via the portal vein, and the concentration of amino acids in a blood sample is measured to determine the initial increasing rate of blood amino acid concentration. The nitrogen source samples used are nitrogen sources I, II, III and IV used to prepare the above mentioned diets and having the same amino acid constitution. The results represented in terms of an average value for five rats are shown in Tables IV and V. Table IV shows the average absorption rate of each amino acid until the peak value is reached. Table V shows the pattern of absorption of amino acids of samples I IV in comparison with the amino acid composition of these samples administered. As seen from the test results shown in Tables IV and V, the low molecular weight peptide composition used in the nutrient agent prepared according to the present invention exerts the following effects. As clearly understood from the above test results, a low molecular weight peptide composition mainly based on dipeptides and tripeptides which has a number of advantages as demonstrated above can be a highly effective nitrogen or protein source for a nutrient agent. According to the present invention, such a low molecular peptide composition is produced by enzymatic hydrolysis of any suitable protein raw material. Since the thus produced composition cannot contain any amino acids other than those contained in the starting material, egg white is the best starting material because of its amino acid constitution. Some starting materials result in low molecular peptide compositions which are off balance in amino acid constitution as compared with the ideal amino acid constitution. Preferably, depending on the intended use of a low molecular peptide composition, any desired starting material may be chosen or any desired essential amino acids may be added to the obtained peptide composition before the composition is incorporated in a nutrient agent. For example, if the obtained peptide composition is short of some essential amino acids depending on a particular starting material, such essential amino acids may be made up. If a particular amino acid is required for the treatment of a patient, this amino acid may be added to the obtained peptide composition. The amino acid constitution of the peptide composition may be controlled as desired in this manner. It is contemplated in the present invention that the content of free amino acids should be limited to about 20 by weight or less in the low molecular peptide composition in order to physiologically take advantage of the increased absorption rate characteristic of the peptide composition or to minimize the amino acid absorption antagonism thereof. The content of relatively high molecular peptides having a molecular weight of higher than 700 should be limited to 20 by weight or less in order to prevent the initial absorption rate from decreasing. The nutrient agent produced according to the present invention may be used in a variety of applications. It may be used as an oral nutrient agent or as an enteral nutrient agent to be directly administered into the stomach or intestine with or without any other suitable nutrient agent admixed. If the taste or flavor of the nutrient agent must be taken into account, any suitable additive may be blended for its purpose. Since the nutrient agent according to the present invention has unique absorption characteristics different from those of proteins or amino acids, it is highly effective for the nourishment of persons with reduced physical strength or constitutional power as well as babies and infants. Increased food efficiency and reduced cholesterol value suggest that the present nutrient agent is also useful for middle aged persons. For the nourishment of a patient before and after an operation, the present nutrient agent is more useful and efficient than the conventional nutrient agents such as amino acid mixtures and solubilized protein hydrolyzates.