# BLEND OF POLYCARBONATE AND WHOLLY AROMATIC POLYESTER

## Claims
Zur Bildung einer anisotropen Schmelzphase befähigtes Polymeren Gemisch, aus dem sich Formteile mit verbesserten mechanischen Eigenschaften herstellen lassen, aus

## Description
The present invention relates to a blend of polycarbonate and wholly aromatic polyester which is melt processable. The characteristics and properties of this blend differ significantly from those expected in light of observations of the properties of ordinary mixtures and of most polymeric blends. When a blend or mixture is prepared from two or more ordinary, non polymeric materials, or from a polymeric material and a non polymeric material, a random distribution of the molecules of the components is obtained. This random distribution provides complete mixing without the formation of groups of clusters of the molecules of any one component. Such a mixture is expected to follow the Rule of Mixtures . The Rule of Mixtures predicts the numerical values of properties of a blend to be the weighted average of the numerical values of the properties of the components. A discussion of the Rule of Mixtures can be found in the book Further information with regard to the Rule of Mixtures can be found on pages 395, 436, 465, 492 and 500 of Volume 2 of Mixtures of most chemically distinct polymeric materials have been found to deviate from the behaviour of ordinary mixtures as characterised by the Rule of Mixtures. The sheer size of polymeric chains restricts mixing of the components and leads to the formation of domains or clusters of molecules of the individual components. Thus, it can be said that most chemically distinct polymeric materials tend to be incompatible in mixtures, exhibiting a tendency to separate into phases. There exists a boundary between the domains of the component polymers, and articles made from such a blend would be expected to exhibit failure at the boundary when placed under stress. in general, then, the mechanical properties of the product are commonly reduced rather than enhanced. Specific properties which may be thus affected include tensile strength, tensile modulus, flexural strength, flexural modulus and impact strength. Some polymeric materials, such as polycarbonate and most wholly aromatic polyesters, exhibit an ordered structure in at least some regions of the polymer. This order can exist in one, two or three dimensions. The inclusion in blends of polymeric materials exhibiting an ordered structure leads to an increased tendency of the blends to separate into phases. This is due to the fact that the order found in certain regions of the polymer causes a fairly sharp boundary between the domains of the molecules of the component polymers. Thus, blends including such polymers would be expected to exhibit a significant reduction in mechanical properties. Accordingly, there has been little impetus to form such blends, particularly for use in applications where mechanical properties are of importance. U.K Patent 1,538,632 discloses a polymer composition which comprises 1 99 of a particular aromatic polyester together with 1 99 of a material from a group comprising polycarbonates, polyalkylene phenylene ethers, polyalkylene phenylene ester ethers and mixtures thereof. The aromatic ester is made from Bisphenol A and is stated to be transparent, and the blend is likewise stated to be transparent. Consequently the materials taught by that Patent are conventionally isotropic materials. U.K. Published Patent Application 2,008,598 discloses a polymer composition comprising 20 percent or less, based on the total weight of polymeric material, of a first rigid polymeric material with the balance being a second polymeric material composed substantially of flexible molecular chains, The first polymeric material is dispersed in the second polymeric material in a microscopic region of 1 µm. or less. Foreign counterparts of this application include JP A 54065747, FR A 2407956 and DE A 2847782. The present invention provides a polymer blend which is capable of exhibiting an anisotropic melt phase and the ability to form shaped articles having improved mechanical properties. The blend comprises The invention enables various advantages to be achieved. The present invention provides a blend of polycarbonate and wholly aromatic polyester which exhibits satisfactory mechanical properties, such as tensile strength, tensile modulus, flexural strength, flexural modulus, impact strength and heat deflection temperature. By means of the present invention one can obtain a blend of polycarbonate and wholly aromatic polyester which exhibits, within at least some compositional ranges, mechanical properties, such as tensile and flexural properties, which are improved over those of each component alone. By means of the present invention one can obtain a blend of polycarbonate and wholly aromatic polyester which exhibits no significant reduction in mechanical properties, such as tensile and flexural properties, as compared to the weighted average of the mechanical properties of the individual components. By means of the present invention one can obtain a blend of polycarbonate and wholly aromatic polyester which exhibits a high degree of anisotropy and shear sensitivity in the melt. By means of the present invention one can obtain a blend of polycarbonate and wholly aromatic polyester which, by virtue of the inclusion of a relatively less expensive component, is less expensive than the relatively more expensive component alone and which exhibits no significant reduction in mechanical properties, such as tensile and flexural properties. The drawing is a graphical representation of the tensile strength of moulded test bars comprising the blend prepared according to Example 1 as a function of the composition of the blend. The dashed line represents the weighted average of the tensile strengths of the individual components. The present invention provides a blend of polycarbonate and melt processable, wholly aromatic polyester. As used herein, the term blend includes any physical blend, mixture or alloy of the above polymeric components. The first component of the blend provided by the present invention is a polycarbonate. The polycarbonate generally has repeating units of the formula wherein each R is selected from among aromatic radicals, such as naphthylene, phenylene, halo substituted phenylene and alkyl substituted phenylene, and X and Y are each selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, hydrocarbon radicals free from aliphatic unsaturation, and radicals which together with the ajoining carbon atom form a cycloalkane radical, the total number of carbon atoms in X and Y being up to 12. The preferred polycarbo nates may be derived from the reaction of bisphenol A and phosgene. These polycarbonates have recurring units of the formula They generally have from 100 to 400 of the recuring units. Such a polymer is available commercially from Mobay Chemical Corporation under the Trade Mark Merlon. Such polycarbonates are described in U.S. Patents Nos. 3,028,365 and 3,334,154. The polycarbonate preferably has an intrinsic viscosity of from 0.3 to 1.0, more preferably from 0.3 to 0.45, as measured at a concentration of 0.1 percent by weight in methylene chloride at 20 C. The wholly aromatic polyesters which may be used in the blend of the present invention comprise at least two recurring moieties which, when combined in the polyester, have been found to form an atypical anisotropic melt phase. The aromatic polyesters are considered to be wholly aromatic in the sense that each moiety present in the polyester contributes at least one aromatic ring to the polymer backbone. Wholly aromatic polyesters have long been known. For instance, 4 hydroxybenzoic acid homopolymer and copolymers have. been provided in the past and are commercially available. Certain of the wholly aromatic polyesters encountered in the prior art tend to be somewhat intractable in nature and to present substantial difficulties if one attempts to melt process the same while employing conventional melt processing procedures. Such polymers commonly are crystalline in nature, relatively high melting or possess a decomposition temperature which is below the melting point, and when molten frequently exhibit an isotropic melt phase. Moulding techniques such as compression moulding or sintering may be utilized with such materials however, injection moulding, melt spinning, etc., commonly have not been viable alternatives or when attempted commonly have been accomplished with difficulty. It is to be understood that the wholly aromatic polyesters which are suitable for use in the present invention are limited to those which are capable of undergoing melt processing i.e., those which exhibit no substantial decomposition at or below the melting temperature. The wholly aromatic polyesters which are suitable for use in the blend of the present invention may be formed by a variety of ester forming techniques whereby organic monomer compounds possessing functional groups which upon condensation form the requisite recurring moieties are reacted. For instance, the functional groups of the organic monomer compounds may be carboxylic acid groups, hydroxyl groups, ester groups, acyloxy groups, acid halides, etc. The organic monomer compounds may be reacted in the absence of a heat exchange fluid via a melt acidolysis procedure. They, accordingly, may be heated initially to form a melt solution of the reactants with the reaction continuing as solid polymer particles are suspended therein. A vacuum may be applied to facilitate removal of volatiles formed during the final stage of the condensation e.g., acetic acid or water . In U.S. Patent No. 4,083,829, entitled Melt Processable Thermotropic Wholly Aromatic Polyester , is described a slurry polymerisation process which may be employed to form the wholly aromatic polyesters which are suitable for use in the present invention. According to such a process, the solid product is suspended in a heat exchange medium. When employing either the melt acidolysis procedure or the slurry procedure of U.S. Patent No. 4,083,829, the organic monomer reactants from which the wholly aromatic polyesters are derived may be initially provided in a modified form whereby the usual hydroxy groups of such monomers are esterified i.e., they are provided as lower acyl esters . The lower acyl groups preferably have from about two to about four carbon atoms. Preferably the acetate esters of organic monomer reactants are provided. Representative catalysts which optionally may be employed in either the melt acidolysis procedure or in the slurry procedure of U.S. Patent No. 4,083,829 include dialkyl tin oxide e.g., dibutyl tin oxide , diaryl tin oxide, titanium dioxide, antimony trioxide, alkoxy titanium silicates, titanium alkoxides, alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of carboxylic acids e.g., zinc acetate , the gaseous acid catalysts, such as Lewis acids e.g., BF The wholly aromatic polyesters suitable for use in the present invention tend to be substantially insoluble in common polyester solvents and accordingly are not susceptible to solution processing. As discussed previously, they can be readily processed by common melt processing techniques. Most suitable wholly aromatic polyesters are soluble in pentafluorophenol. The wholly aromatic polyesters which are suitable for use in the present invention commonly exhibit a weight average molecular weight of about 2,000 to 200,000 and preferably about 10,000 to 50,000, e.g., about 20,000 to 25,000. Such molecular weight may be determined by standard techniques not involving the solutioning of the polymer, e.g., by end group determination via infrared spectroscopy on compression moulded films. Alternatively, light scattering techniques in a pentafluorophenol solution may be employed to determine the molecular weight. The wholly aromatic polyesters exhibit an inherent viscosity i.e., I.V. of at least 2.0 dl. g., e.g. 2.0 to 8.0 dl. g., when dissolved in a concentration of 0.1 percent by weight in pentafluorophenol at 60 C. Wholly aromatic polyesters having a relatively high I.V., e.g., approximately 5.0 to 8.0 dl. g., are especially useful in the blend of the present invention. The liquid crystalline, wholly aromatic polyesters appear to have excellent electrical properties when used as films or coatings in electrical applications. They have high temperature resistance and high dielectric strength, i.e., they are capable of withstanding high voltages without exhibiting substantial breakdown. The above described polyesters, in order to be useful in the blend of the present invention, must exhibit optical anisotropy in the melt phase. These polyesters readily form liquid crystals in the melt phase and accordingly exhibit a high tendency for the polymer chains to orient in the shear direction. Such anisotropic properties are manifested at a temperature at which the wholly aromatic polyester readily undergoes melt processing to form shaped articles. The anisotropic properties may be confirmed by conventional polarised light techniques whereby crossed polarisers are utilised. More specifically, the anisotropic melt phase may conveniently be confirmed by the use of a Leitz polarising microscope at a magnification of 40x with the sample on a Koffler hot stage and under a nitrogen atmosphere. The melt phases of the wholly aromatic polyesters which are suitable for use in the present invention are optically anisotropic, i.e., they transmit light when examined between cross polarisers. By contrast, the melt of a conventional polymer will not transmit appreciable light when laced between cross polarisers. The group of polyesters to be used in the present invention which is described in U.S. Patent No. 4,238,599 comprises certain melt processable wholly aromatic polyesters which are capable of forming an anisotropic melt phase, apart from the blend, at a temperature no higher than 320 C. The polymer consists essentially of the recurring moieties I, II, III and IV wherein R being methyl, chloro, bromo or a mixture of any thereof, and being substituted for a hydrogen atom present upon the aromatic ring . R is preferably methyl. The polyester comprises 20 to 60 mole percent of moiety 1,5 to 18 mole percent of moiety II, 5 to 35 mole percent of moiety III and 20 to 40 mole percent of moiety IV. The polyester preferably comprises 35 to 45 mole percent of moiety I, 10 to 15 mole percent of moiety II, 15 to 25 mole percent of moiety III and 25 to 35 mole percent of moiety IV, with the proviso that the total molar concentration of moieties II and III is substantially equal to that of moiety IV. The wholly aromatic polyester described immediately above commonly exhibits an inherent viscosity of at least 2.0 dl. g., e.g. 2.0 to 8.0 dl. g., when dissolved at a concentration of 0.3 weight volume percent in pentafluorophenol at 60 C. The blend of the present invention comprises 5 to 40 percent by weight of the polycarbonate component and 60 to 95 percent by weight of the wholly aromatic polyester component. The above weight percentages are based upon the total weight of the wholly aromatic polyester component and the polycarbonate component. In preparing the blend of the present invention, the individual components are commonly provided in the form of chips or pellets. Each of the components is weighed separately, and then the components are physically mixed together in any appropriate apparatus. e.g. a ball mill. The physical mixture is then dried at approximately 100 C. overnight or for a period of time of approximately 24 hours. The mixture is conveniently dried in a vacuum oven or in a circulating air oven, although any suitable apparatus may be used. The purpose of the drying step is to remove water from the physical mixture so as to prevent degradation of the polymer blend. After the mixture of solid polymer particles has been dried, the polymer blend can then be prepared. A convenient method of forming the polymer blend is melt extrusion. The extrusion apparatus thoroughly mixes the polymers in the melt and then extrudes the blend in the form of a strand which, upon solidification, can be broken up into chips or pellets. As previously discussed, it is known in the art that blends of two polymers tend to exhibit phase separation, with a concomitant reduction in properties, due to the incompatibility of the Polymers, i.e., the formation of domains. However, unexpected and surprising results are achieved with the blend of the present invention. It has been observed that there is no significant reduction in mechanical properties, such as tensile and flexural properties, of the blend when compared to the weighted average of the mechanical properties of the components. in fact, with certain blend compositions, there is an increase in properties over even the individual component exhibiting the better mechanical properties. Moreover, the blend of the present invention also provides an economic advantage. The combination of the relatively less expensive polycarbonate with the relatively more expensive wholly aromatic polyester produces a blend which costs less than the more expensive component but which exhibits no significant decrease in mechanical properties. The blend of the present invention is capable of undergoing melt processing at a temperature within the range of 260 C. to 350 C. Preferably, the blend is capable of undergoing melt processing at a temperature within the range of 280 C. to 300 C. The blend of the present invention demonstrates anisotropy in the melt phase. This is due to the fact that the wholly aromatic polyester has been found to retain its anisotropic characteristics in spite of the presence of the other component. Thus, the blend retains the excellent processability characteristics of the liquid crystalline polymer. The blend of the present invention is useful as a moulding resin, and especially for injection moulding. The blend can also be used in the formation of fibres and films. Articles moulded from the blend of the present invention exhibit good mechanical properties, such as tensile strength, tensile modulus, flexural strength, flexural modulus, notched Izod impact strength, and heat deflection temperature. Articles may also be moulded from a moulding compound which includes, as one component, the blend of the present invention. Such a moulding compound incorporates into the blend of the present invention 1 to 50 percent, preferably 10 to 30 percent, by weight, based upon the total weight of the moulding compound, of a solid filler and or reinforcing agent. Representative fibres which may serve as reinforcing media include glass fibres, asbestos, graphitic carbon fibres, amorphous carbon fibres, synthetic polymeric fibres, aluminum fibres, aluminum silicate fibres, oxide of aluminum fibres, titanium fibres, magnesium fibres, rock wool fibres, steel fibres, tungsten fibres, cotton, wool and wood cellulose fibres, etc. Representative filler materials include calcium silicate, silica, clays, talc, mica, polytetrafluoroethylene, graphite, alumina trihydrate, sodium aluminum carbonate, barium ferrite, etc. In order to form an article by injection moulding from the present blend, or from a moulding compound made from the present blend, the blend or moulding compound is brought to the melt temperature of the blend, e.g., 280 C. to 300 C. and is then injected into a mould cavity. The mould activity is commonly maintained at a temperature of less than approximately 100 C., e.g., 90 C. to 100 C. The blend in its melt phase is injected into the mould cavity at a pressure of approximately 10,000 p.s.i. 68,950 kPa . The cycle time i.e., the time between injections for the present blend commonly is 10 to 40 seconds. The properties of articles formed from certain blend compositions of the present invention can be improved by heat treatment. The articles may be thermally treated in an inert atmosphere e.g., nitrogen, argon, helium or alternatively in a flowing oxygen containing atmosphere e.g. air . For instance, the article may be brought to a temperature approximately 10 C. to 30 C. below the melting temperature of the blend, at which temperature the article remains a solid object. The heat treatment times commonly range from a few minutes to a number of days, e.g., from 0.5 to 200 hours or more. Preferably, the heat treatment is conducted from a time of 48 to 72 hours. The heat treatment improves the properties of the article by increasing the molecular weight of the liquid crystalline polymer and increasing the degree of crystallinity. Heat treatment has been observed to significantly increase the heat deflection temperature of certain blend compositions, such as those with high wholly aromatic polyester content. The heat deflection temperature is a measure of the upper temperature at which articles formed from the blend can be effectively used. These blend compositions can be characterised as high performance in that they are capable of forming shaped articles having heat deflection temperature greater than 200 C. following heat treatment. Thus, the blend of the present invention is useful in applications involving relatively high temperatures. It has been observed that the properties of articles formed from the blend of the present invention vary with the processing conditions, such as mould temperature, injection pressure, cycle time, etc. However, it would be obvious to one of ordinary skill in the art to experimentally determine those conditions which maximise the properties of articles formed from the present blend. It has been found that by means of the invention moulded articles can be obtained having a tensile strength of at least 25,000 p.s.i. 172,375 kPa and a flexural strength of at least 19,000 p.s.i. 131,005 kPa . The following examples are given as specific illustrations of the invention. It should be understood, however, that the invention is not limited to the specific details set forth in the examples. Blend compositions were prepared by the melt extrusion of polycarbonate and a wholly aromatic polyester. The wholly aromatic polyester comprised 40 mole percent of 4 oxybenzoyl units, 15 mole percent of 1,2 ethylenedioxy 4,4 dibenzoyl units, 15 mole percent of terephthaloyl units, and 30 mole percent of methyl substituted 1,4 dioxyphenylene units. The wholly aromatic polyester exhibited an inherent viscosity I.V. of 2.34 dl. g. when dissolved in a concentration of 0.3 weight volume percent in pentafluorophenol at 60 C. The polycarbonate used was molding grade polycarbonate obtained commercially from Mobay Chemical Corporation under the Trade Mark Merlon , having the chemical structure The ratios of wholly aromatic polyester polycarbonate in the blend compositions were 90 10, 60 40 and, for comparison, 30 70. The component polymers, in the form of solid particles, such as chips or pellets, were weighed separately and were subsequently physically mixed together in a ball mill. The mixture of solid particles was dried at approximately 100 C. overnight in a vacuum oven or circulating air oven. The mixture of solid particles was then heated until a melt phase was formed, and the melt was thoroughly mixed in a conventional melt extrusion apparatus. The resulting blend was extruded into the form of a strand, which, upon solidification, was broken up into solid particles of the polymer blend. In order to measure the mechanical properties of the blend, shaped articles were molded from the polymer blends. The solid particles of the various compositions were heated to the melt temperature of the blend approximately 280 C , and were subsequently injected into a mold cavity at an injection pressure of approximately 10,000 p.s.i. 68,950 kPa . The mold cavity was held at a temperature of approximately 94 C. The cycle time for the injection molding process was approximately 40 seconds. The mechanical properties of the blend were measured and are shown in Table I. The tensile strength and elongation values for polycarbonate were measured at yield and at break Yield Break . The tensile properties were determined in accordance with standard test ASTM D638, Type V the flexural properties were determined in accordance with ASTM D790 the notched Izod impact strength was determined in accordance with ASTM D256 and the heat deflection temperature was determined in accordance with ASTM D648. The data for tensile strength listed in Table I are presented in the drawing in the form of a graph. This graph clearly demonstrates the surprising and unexpected results provided by the blend compositions prepared in accordance with this Example. The tensile strength is above that which would be predicted from the weighted average of the tensile strengths of the individual components indicated by the dashed line in the drawing . The same can also be said of the flexural strength and the tensile and flexural moduli. It can be seen that articles formed from compositions containing at least 60 percent wholly aromatic polyester exhibit a tensile strength of no less than approximately 25,000 p.s.i. 172,375 kPa and a flexural strength of no less than approximately 19,000 p.s.i. 131,005 kPa Furthermore, no significant reduction in tensile and flexural properties, as compared to those of polycarbonate above, is observed, as would be expected. Blend compositions were prepared in the manner described in Example 1 from polycarbonate and another batch of the wholly aromatic polyester described therein. The wholly aromatic polyester exhibited an inherent viscosity of 2.47 dl. g. The ratios of wholly aromatic polyester polycarbonate of the blend compositions were 90 10, 80 20 and 70 30. Articles were molded at a mold temperature of 30 C. from the blend compositions of the present Example in the manner described in Example 1. A mold temperature of 21 C. was employed for molding articles from the wholly aromatic polyester. The mechanical properties of the articles were measured according to the tests listed in Example 1. The results of these tests are listed in Table II. The data of the present Example clearly demonstrate the surprising and unexpected results provided by the blend compositions of the present Example. The tensile and flexural properties are above those which would be predicted from the weighted average of the properties of the individual components. As in Example 1, there is no significant reduction in tensile and flexural properties, as would be expected. Articles formed from the blend compositions all of which comprise at least 60 percent wholly aromatic polyester, exhibit tensile strengths above 25,000 p.s.i. 172,375 kPa and flexural strengths above 19,000 p.s.i. 131,005 kPa . Articles were molded from one of the polymer blend compositions of Example 1 wholly aromatic polyester polycarbonate 90 10 in the manner described therein. The articles were subsequently treated at 240 C. for 48 hours in a nitrogen atmosphere. The mechanical properties of the articles were then measured according to the tests listed in Example 1. The results of these measurements are listed in Table III. As indicated by the heat deflection temperature data, the blend composition of the present Example can be characterised as high performance in that it has a heat deflection temperature well above 200 C.