# Satellite reel.

## Abstract
A reel, in particular intermediate or storage reel for provisionally receiving a variable cable length between a stationary end and a movable end of a cable 19 . The reel is characterized by a central drum 1 which is stationary mounted and is fitted with a cable receiving groove 16 extending helically over the drum surface and having a connection to an axial cable passage for a stationary cable end and at least two satellite drums 12a d , each having the same diameter as the central drum 1 and each likewise being fitted in the surface with a helical cable receiving groove 18a d of the same pitch as that of the central drum 1 , however oppositely directed. The satellite drums 12a d are rotatable about the central drum 1 an simultaneously forcibly about their own axis in such a way that the oppositely disposed portions of the respective grooves can always receive a part of the cable 19 between them.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A reel, in particular an intermediate or storage reel for provisionally receiving a variable cable length between a stationary end and a movable end of a cable, characterized by a central drum which is stationary mounted and is fitted with a cable receiving groove extending helically over the drum surface, with a connection to an axial cable passage for a stationary cable end and at least two satellite drums, each having the same diameter as the central drum and each likewise being fitted in the surface with a helical cable receiving groove of the same pitch as that of the central drum, however oppositely directed, which satellite drums are rotatable about the central drum and simultaneously forcibly about their own axis, in such a way that the oppositely disposed portions of the respective grooves can always take up a part of the cable between them. 2. A reel according to claim 1, characterized in that the central drum and the satellite drums are provided at their head with identical, coacting gears, while the satellite drums are rotatably mounted in a cage rotatable about the centre line of the central drum and upon rotation of the cage the planet gears of the satellite drums roll over the sun gear of the central drum so that the satellite drums are rotated about their own axis.

## Description
Satellite reel The invention relates to a cable reel and in particular an intermediate or storage reel for temporarily receiving a variable cable length between a stationary end and a movable end of a cable. The term cable as used herein and in the accompanying claims means both an electric conductor and a hydraulic or pneumatic line and also combination thereof. With reels that are arranged between a stationary apparatus, e.g.a measuring or control station on the one end and a movable apparatus,for instance a measuring probe or a remote control apparatus on the other end, twisting of the cable during rotation of the reel should be avoided. In case of hydraulic lines use is made therefor of a rotary fluid clutch with a stationary portion and a portion that is rotatable relative thereof, while suitable seals are disposed between said portions. The stationary portion of such so called Rotary Seals or Swivels is connected to stationary apparatus e.g. a fluid source, while the rotary portion is connected to the reel. Analogous constructions are known for pneumatic lines and also in fibre optics. In case of an electric conductor use is made of slider contacts, whereby for each core a carbon brush is connected to the non rotary apparatus , e.g. a measuring station for the portal of a mobile crane, while for each core there is mounted a slip ring in corotational relationship with the reel. In a slight number of fluid lines or cores per cable the prior art aids will be sufficient. Use may even be made of a plug connection which is released during reel rotations. However this may entail difficulties if constantly a specific fluid pressure or electric tension has to be maintained in the cable. Substantial problems however occur in case of more complex cables, such as cables that are composed of a plurality of fluid lines or electric conductors or combinations thereof. For instance in case of mobile transport installations it is mostly necessary to not only continue to supply continuous electric power but often also other electric connections should be maintained continuously for the control, locking, communication, measurement of lifted weights or of transported quantities and the like.Not only that the practical constructive possibilities impose a restriction on the possible number of slip rings, but often these electric connections also appear unreliable by the variations in the transition resistance of the slip ring constructions. Another example is to be found in seismic operations at sea where use may be made of a measuring probe which is kept at a variable distance from a ship by means of a float and which, by means of a cable comprising m y electric cores and or hydraulic lines, enclosed by a jacket, is connected to a computer on the ship. The length of this cable should be frequently changed, for instance for azasttion to the local circumstances or for maintenance operations at the measuring probe.For preventing twisting, which is naturally un allowable for such cables, prior art aids, such as the above mentioned rotary clutches or slip contacts are deficient, partly since polluted rings excessively affect the measuring signals mostly indicated in milli volts and so far it had been necessary during the taking in of the measuring probe to arrange the cable on the deck somehow in loops or to suspend same. Since this has to be done very carefully, the taking in and letting out of a measuring probe is timeconsuning and will mostly take various hours. it is the object of the present invention to eliminate these drawbacks while providing a storage or intermediate reel receiving substantial cable lengths without occurence of the above described detrimental twists. According to the invention the reel is therefor fitted with a central drum which is mounted stationary and which is fitted with a cablereceiving groove extending helically across the drum surface, with a connection to an axial cable passage for a stationary cable end and at least two satellite drums, each having the same diameter as the central drum, and each likewise being fitted in the surface with a helical cable receiving groove having the same pitch as that of the central drum, however oppositely directed, which satellite drums are rotatable about the central drum and are simultaneously urged to rotate about their own axis in such a way that the oppositely disposed portions of the respective grooves can always take up a part of the cable between them. In the reel according to the invention a cable, the stationary end of which is guided through the radial and the axial passage in the central drum, can be wound up by rotation of the satellite drums about the central drum, while the cable is supplied tangentially to the satellite drums. Because the central drum is stationary no twist occurs. The winding up of the central drum is effected from one of the satellite drums which positions the cable laid over a part of its circumference in the cable receiving groove during the rotation about the central drum in the take up groove of the central drum. Said groove is thus filled from one end of the central drum. Simultaneously the cable is wound about the assembly of satellite drums, so that by means of a reel of comparatively small overall dimensions a comparatively large cable length can be coiled. The accurate positioning of the cable in the groove of the central drum by means of a satellite drum is only possible if, as stated in the above, the oppositely disposed portions of the respective grooves can always take up a part of the cable between them, viz. preferably approximately fittingly between them. In other words the opposite helices of the central drum on the one end and of all satellite drums on the other end, during the uncoiling of the satellite drums about the central drum, should always remain accurately opposite each other. One embodiment wherein this can be simply ensured constructively is that in which the central drum and the satellite drums are provided at their heaA with identical coacting gears, the satellite drums being rotatably mounted in a cage rotatable about the centre line of the central drum and which, upon rotation of the cage roll the planet gears of the satellite drums over the sun gears of the central drum so that the satellite drums are rotated about their own axis. At any rate in case of heavy cables it is not the intention that the reel provides the pulling force for the taking in of the cable. In otherwise known manner there may consequently be provided a two side cable pulling device which is adapted to supply the cable to the reel, respectively adapted to draw the cable therefrom, as well as a light motor constantly loading the cage in the winding direction. In case the cable is supplied to the reel, the motor will ensure the winding up and in case the cable is drawn from the reel, then the reel drives the motor back. An important favourable aspect of the reel according to the invention is the fact that the cable is not only supplied, respectively discharged at one level, top or bottom of the track of the satellite drums but also in the same axial zone. For during the coiling of the cable, the exterior cable winding on the assembly satellite drums will be automatically advanced while the exterior winding is completed and vice versa. A reel according to the invention having four satellite drums, a capacity increase of more than 25 is attained in comparison with a conventional, single drum. One embodiment of the satellite reel according to the invention will now be explained, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawing, wherein Fig. 1 is a diagrammatic side of view of the reel, partly in crosssection on the line I I in Fig. 2, and Fig. 2 is a cross section on the line Il Il in Fig. 1. According to the drawing a central drum 1, via trunnions 2a, 2b, a sleeve 2c and locking means 3a and 3b, is stationary mounted in lateral supports 4 resting on a baseplate 5. On trunnion 2a and sleeve 2c there is rotatably mounted a cage 6 by means of a light hydromotor 7 and a rope 8. The cage 6 is composed of end plates 9 and 10, which are mutually coupled by rods 11. In cage 6 four satellite drums 12a d are rotatably mounted. Each satellite drum is fitted with a planet gear 14a d fixedly connected thereto by means of screws 13 and the central drum 1 is fitted with a sun gear 15 fixedly connected thereto. The diameters of the drums 1, 12a d are identical and the gears 15, 14a d are identical. In the face of the central drum there is formed a helical cablereceiving groove 16 which via a radial cable passage 17 is in communic on with an axial cable pssage 17 . The groove 16 extends over the drum according to a left hand helix with pitch S. In the face of each of the satellite drums 12 a d there is formed a cable receiving groove 18a d having the same pitch S as the groove 16, however according to a right hand helix and the drums 1, 12 d are so interconnected via the respective gears 15, respectively 14a d that, irrespective of the rotation position of the cage 6, the oppositely disposed portions of the groove 16 on the one end and 18a d on the other end, can reasonably fittingly enclose cable lengths disposed in situ. In particular it appears from Fig. 2 in that manner a cable 19 supplied by a cable pulling device 20 is wound about drum 12a and is conducted, via the groove portion disposed in Fig. 1 at the back of said drum, to the central drum 1. The end 19a of the cable is conducted through the passage 17 and 17 and may be connected to a stationary device. For winding up the cable the reel in Fig. 2 is turned clockwise so that it is wound about the assembly of satellite drums 12a d.Simultaneously, via the satellite drum 12a the groove 16 of the stationary central drum 1 is filled, thus forming two windings, viz. one external winding over the assembly of satellite drums and one internal winding on the central drum without occurence of cable twist.