# Method for preparing aminoalkyl esters of aminoacids.

## Abstract
Aminoalkyl esters of aminoacids are obtained by react ing under heating an aminoacid hydrochloride with an aminoalcohol hydrochloride in the absence of an organic solvent capable of forming an azeotropic mixture with water and in the presence of hydrogen chloride gas absorbed in the reaction system.

## Claims
Claims 1. In the esterification of an amino acid hydrochloride and an amino alcohol hydrochloride for preparation of the corresponding aminoalkyl ester of amino acid, the improvement which is characterized in that the esterification is effected at an elevated temperature in the absence of an organic solvent capable of forming an azeotropic mixture with water, and optionally hydrochloric acid is absorbed and water produced is distilled off under reduced pressure. 2. The method as defined in claim 1, in which the amino acid is a member selected from the group consisting of aliphatic and aromatic amino acids having at least one amino group and at least one carboxyl group and having 2 to 18 carbon atoms, and lactams of 3 to 12lmembered ring. 3. The method as defined in claim 1, in which the amino alcohol is a member selected from the group consisting of amino alcohols having one primary or secondary hydroxyl group and one primary amino group and having 2 to 12 carbon atoms. 4. The method as defined in claim 1, in which the amino acid is 2 aminocaprolactam. 5. The method as defined in claim 1, in which the amino acid is lysine. 6. The method as defined in claim 1, in which the amino acid is W aminocaproic acid. 7. The method as defined in claim 1, in which the amino acid is 3 aminopropionic acid. 8. The method as defined in claim 1 in which the amino alcohol is ethanolamine. 9. The method as defined in claim 1, in which the amino alcohol is l amino 2 propanol. 10, The method as defined in any of claims 1 through 9, in which the molar ratio of the amino acid hydrochloride to the amino alcohol hydrochloride is in the range of from 1 0.8 to 1 8.

## Description
METHODS FOR PREPARING AMINOALKYL ESTERS OF AMINO ACIDS This invention relates to a method for preparing aminoalkyl esters of aminoacids. Aminoalkyl esters of aminoacids on phosgenation afford isocyanates useful as a starting material for polyurethanes. Aminoalkyl esters of aminoacids can be prepared for example by the method proposed in Japanese Patent Publication No.35246 1971 wherein, in the esterification reaction of an aminoacid hydrochloride and an aminoalcohol hydrochloride, the esterification is allowed to proceed under heating while passing a stream of hydrogen chloride gas through the reaction system and while removing water as the reaction proceeds. This proposed esterification reaction is carried out in an inert, liquid reaction medium, and the said publication refers to various hydrocarbons and chlorinated hydrocarbons as liquid reaction media. As the esterification proceeds under heating in a liquid reaction medium, water is produced, which together with the reaction medium forms azeotropic system and is distilled out of the reaction system.The water about to be distilled off accompanies hydrogen chloride present in the reaction system as an azeotropic mixture and hydrogen chloride is consumed. To have this esterification reaction proceed, therefore, it has been considered necessary that such a decrease in the amount of hydrogen chloride be compensated for and that the concentration of hydrogen chloride be maintained by passing a stream of hydrogen chloride gas through the reaction system during the reaction. Having studied the above method, we found that the method in question involves the following demerits firstly, although the esterification reaction proceeds comparatively favorably in the initial stage of the reaction, the reaction rate gradually decreases, and the conversion reaches near a ceiling at fairly lower yield, secondly, the requirement that the reaction should be carried out while passing a large amount of hydrogen chloride gas causes an operational problem such that the handling of the gas is troublesome. It is an object of this invention to overcome the abovementioned demerits. It is another object of this invention to provide a method whereby the esterification reaction of an aminoacid and an aminoalcohol can be carried out at a higher reaction rate and in a more simplified manner. Other objects of this invention will become apparent from the following description. The aforesaid objects of this invention are achieved by effecting the reaction in the absence of an organic solvent capable of forming an azeotropic mixture with water and in the presence of hydrogen chloride gas absorbed in the reaction system, in the esterification under heating of an aminoacid hydrochloride and an aminoalcohol hydrochloride for preparation of the corresponding aminoalkyl ester of aminoacid. In the esterification reaction, distilling the produced water out of the reaction system throughly is generally considered advantageous for carrying out the reaction favorably. Usually there is adopted an esterification method in which water is distilled off as an azeotropic system in the presence of an organic solvent, then the water thus distilled off is separated and the solvent refluxed. In contrast therewith, this invention does not allow an organic solvent capable of forming an azeotropic mixture with water to be present in the reaction system, whereby the formation of an azeotropic system is avoided so the reaction mixture is not throughly dehydrated but assumes a more incompletely dehydrated state, and then in the latter state the reaction rate becomes so surprisingly higher as unexpected. It goes without saying that an organic solvent may be present in a state not participating in the reaction of this invention.For example, there is also included in this invention a method such that in a settling or near settling state, there is floated an organic solvent upon the reaction mixture, and then there is absorbed hydrogen chloride gas into the lower layer of the reaction mixture by bubbling from the bottom of vessel or by providing a separated hydrogen chloride absorbing device. In this invention, hydrogen chloride gas is to be absorbed in the reaction system, but it is not necessary that the hydrogen chloride gas be introduced in the reaction system constantly as a stream of the gas. Therefore, the method of this invention can be applied even in a closed reaction vessel so far as the surface of reaction mixture is contacted with hydrogen chloride gas. The produced water is removed outside the reaction system intermittently as necessary. In the ordinary esterification reaction it is desirable, as a generally acknowledged opinion, that the produced water be removed from the reaction system as soon as possible. In more particular terms it is regarded preferable that ester forming compounds be heated in the presence of an azeotropic organic solvent and that the produced water be distilled out of the reaction mixture constantly by means of a Dean Stark water separator trap or the like attached to the reaction vessel.In the method of this invention, unlike such a common sense, that is, unlike the aforementioned water removal in an azeotropic system, the produced water is not throughly removed but, for example, is distilled off under an appropriate reduced pressure and hydrogen chloride gas is brought into direct contact with the reaction mixture alter such removal of water thereby having hydrogen chloride more favorably absorbed in the mixture and thus the reaction is allowed to more fastly proceed. According to such a method of the invention, the remaining water in the reaction mixture is usually larger in amount than in an azeotropic dehydration system, and hydrogen chloride is absorbed more favorably into the reaction mixture, and further its concentration becomes higher. In the esterification reaction system of this invention, usually the ratio of residual water to aminoacid is about several mol to about 20 mo, but in the initial stage of the reaction it may be about 40 mol . The concentration of hydrogen chloride in the reaction mixture usually is a few mol to about 8 mol , but a higher concentration even to the vicinity of 15 mol is also reached.On the other hand, in the conventional azeotropic system using an organic solvent, the concentration of hydrogen chloride in reaction mixture is at most near 1 mol or so in many cases. The reaction accelerating effect in the esterification reaction of this invention is presumed to be based firstly on the effect of hydrogen chloride as a catalyst but also in another weise on the catalytic effect of water itself, of which not yet so certainly clarified. In any case, as compared with the conventional way of esterification reaction such as the one previously referred to in which the reaction is carried out in an azeotropic dehydration system in the presence of an organic solvent while having hydrogen chloride absorbed in the reaction system, the esterifying method of this invention has exhibited unexpected effects in the preparation of aminoalkyl esters of aminoacids in which the esterification is allowed to proceed in the absence of an organic solvent and in the presence of hydrogen chloride gas absorbed directly in the reaction system while the produced water is removed intermittently to an incomplete extent by distillation under reduced pressure or like means. Amino acrid hydrochlorides which may be used in this invention are hydrochlorides of aliphatic or aromatic amino acids having at least one amino group and at least one carboxylic group and having 2 to 18 carbon atoms or of lactams of 3 to 12 membered ring. Particularly preferred aminoacids are aliphatic monoaminomonocarboxylic acids, diamino monocarboxylic acids, monoaminodicarboxylic acids, and diamino dicarboxylic acids. Lactams resulting from cyclization of these aminoacids are also preferably used.To exemplify the above compounds, mention may be made of glycine, 3 aminopropionic acid, co Gu aminocaproic acid, GS aminolauric acid, alanine, isoleucine, 3 aminobutyric acid, 4 aminocyclohexanecarboxylic acid, phenylalanine, methionine, aminobenzoic acid, aspartic acid, glutamic acid, lysine, lanthionine, l amino 2,3,4 butanetricarboxylic acid, as well as lactams of these aminoacids such as pyrrolidone, caprolactam and laurolactam. It goes without saying that these compounds may contain functional groups inert to the esterification reaction, for example, such substituent groups as alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, halogen, and so on. Aminoalcohol hydrochlorides which may be used in the invention are hydrochloride of aminoalcohols having one primary or secondary hydroxyl group and one primary amino group and having 2 to 12 carbon atoms. These aminoalcohols may contain, in the alkylene chain thereof, hetero atoms such as oxygen and sulfur, or groups inert to the esterification reaction, for example, such substituent groups as alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, nitro, halogen, and so on. By way of illustrating such aminoalcohols, mention may be made of ethanolamine l amino 2 propanol 2 amino l propanol, 2 aminoisobutanol, 2 amino l butanol, 2 2 aminoethoxy ethanol, and 2 aminocyclohexanol. In the esterification reaction, the molar ratio of an aminoacid hydrochloride to an aminoalcohol hydrochloride is in the range of about 1 0.8to about 1 8, preferably about 1 1.2 to about 1 3, and the heating temperature is in the range of about 50 to about 18O C, preferably about 80 to about l5O C. If an amino alcohol hydrochloride is used in a larger amount than the above range, the esterification reaction will be accelerated, but at the same time there will occur a undesired side reaction which produces water, resulting in that it becomes difficult to isolate the object substance. Therefore, it is suitable that an aminoalcohol hydrochloride be used in an amount within the above range of molar ratio. The reaction may be carried out under normal pressure and also under pressure or under somewhat reduced pressure. For the purification of product there may be used various known methods, but with respect t9 the ester from lysine dihydrochloride and ethanolamine hydrochloride, the purification is effectively carried out by using a mixed methanol ethanol solvent as a recrystallization solvent. The products, which usually are obtained in the form of hydrochlorides according to the method of the invention, can be converted to the free compounds by any of the processes known in the art, such as neutralization of the strong acid, extraction, heating to the salt dissociation temperature, and the like. Therefore, the aminoalkyl esters of aminoacids as referred to herein include salts thereof. Working examples of this invention are given below to further illustrate the invention. Example 1 210 g. 1 mole of a synthesized 2 aminocaprolactam 61 aqueous solution was mixed with 406 g. 4 moles of a concentrated hydrochloric acid 36 , and the resulting solution was heated at 97 C for 10 hours to allow hydrolysis to take place. Then, 122 g. 2 moles of ethanolamine was added, and a reaction mixture solution of lysine.2HCl 1 mole and ethanolamine.HCl 2 moles is prepared and at a bath temperature of 800C the solution was concentrated under reduced pressure first by a water jet pump and lastly by a vacuum pump to a pressure of 2 3 nimllg as a result, there was obtained a reaction mixture in a molten state with a water content below 0.5 wt .The reaction mixture was placed in a closed, 1 litre flask equipped with a stirrer, then the inside temperature of the flask was raised to 1200C and the interior was first reduced in pressure to exhaust the air therefrom, then purged with hydrogen chloride gas to allow the gas to come into contact with the reaction mixture. For 10 to 15 minutes hydrogen chloride was allowed to be absorbed in the reaction mixture with stirring. During this period, replenishment of the hydrogen chloride gas absorbed was ensured by connecting the flask to an exterior, hydrogen chloride gas reservoir.Thereafter, for a very short time, the interior of the flask was reduced in pressure to 300 400 ining for exhaustion of gas, then purged with air. This operation is repeated two or three times, then the flask is allowed to stand at 120it, and after the lapse of 40 to 60 minutes the produced water is distilled off at a reduced pressure below 10 mmHg. After repeating this operation five or six times, the esterification rate reaches 75 to 80 . In the above esterifying operation, as to lysine 1 mole the residual amount of water after dehydration under reduced pressure was about 0.05 to 0.15 mole, and the amount of the hydrogen chloride gas absorbed was 0.05 to 0.08 mole. The absorption of hydrogen chloride gas may be increased to 0.1 to 0.15 mole. by making the absorption time longer.From this reaction product was isolated 190 g. of a purified 2 aminoethyl 2,6 diamino caproate by recrystallization from a mixed methyl alcohol ethyl alcohol solvent, m.p. 143 144iC. Example 2 219 g. 1 mole of L lysine dihydrochloride and 196 g. 2 moles of ethanolamine hydrochloride were thoroughly pulverized and mixed together, then dried under reduced pressure for 3 hours at 10 C. The mixture was placed in a closed, 1 litre flask, then the inside temperature of the flask was raised to 120 C and, in the same manner as in Example 1, hydrogen chloride gas was allowed to be absorbed in the molten mixture, under which condition reaction was allowed to proceed. After standing for such a short time of about 30 minutes as the reaction time, the esterification rate is surprisingly accelerated and the yield reached so high 58 . Example 3 Ethanolamine hydrochloride was reacted with each of W aminocaproic acid hydrochloride and 3 aminopropionic acid hydrochloride in the same manner as in Example 2 except that the reaction operation was repeated several times. As a result, it was confirmed that esterification took place very rapidly, as was the case with Example 2.Example 4 In the same manner as in Example 3, lysine dihydrochloride was reacted with each of 2 amino l propanol hydrochloride and l amino2 propanol hydrochloride, to find that esterification took place very rapidly as was the case with Example 2.Reference Example An aqueous solution of a reaction mixture which had been prepared in the same manner as in Example 1 was placed in a four necked, 1 litre flask, in which was further placed a mixed toluene xylene solvent b.p. 1200C . To the flask was attached a hydrogen chloride gas introducing pipe and were also attached, for distilling off water continuously in an azeotropic system, a reflux condenser and a water separator. While passing in hydrogen chloride gas at a rate of 50 cc min. heat was applied with stirring. At an inside temperature of about 900C water was distilled off azeotropically. About 4 hours was required to distill off 324 g.of water which was present from the beginning. The conversion at this time was 16 , thereafter about 40 in 5 hours, 55 in 15 hours, and 70 in 25 hours. Thus the reaction velocity was very low. The amount of hydrogen chloride absorbed in this reaction mixture was 0.008 to 0.012 mole to lysine 1 mole.