# Monoclonal antibodies to drugs, methods for their production and somatic cell hybridomas secreting them.

## Abstract
A monoclonal antibociy to a drug, usually a haptenic drug of molecular weight between about 100 and 1500 daltons such as gentamicin, produced by somatic cell hybridization. Lymphocytes which produce antibodies to the drug are fused with myeloma cells to form hybridomas, a hydridoma clone which secretes the desired antibody is isolated by conventional procedures, and the secreted monoclonal antibodies are harvested.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A monoclonal antibody to a drug. 2. The antibody of claim 1 wherein said drug is a hapten of molecular weight between about 100 and 1500 daltons. 3. The antibody of claim 1 wherein said drug is gentamicin. 4. A somatic cell hybridoma which secretes an antibody to a drug. 5. A method for producing a monoclonal antibody to a drug, comprising the steps of Cat fusing lymphocytes which produce anti bodies to said drug with myeloma cells to form hybridomas, Cut isolating a hybridoma clone which secretes the desired antibody to said drug, and Cc harvesting the secreted monoclonal antibody. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein said drug is a hapten of molecular weight between about 100 and 1500 daltons. 7. The method of claim 5 wherein said drug is an antibiotic, an antiepileptic, an antiasthmatic, an antiarrhythmic, an antidepressant, an analgesic, a tranquilizer, a cardiovascular agent, a sedative, a bronchodialator, or an antineoplastic agent. 8. The method of claim 5 wherein said drug is gentamicin, tobramycin, amikacin, sisomicin, kanamycin, netilmicin, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, etho suximide, carbamazepine, valproate, theophylline, pro pranolol, procainamide, quinidine, amitryptiline, desi pramine, disopyramide, doxepin, doxorubicin, nortrypti line, methotrexate, imipramine, lidocaine, or digoxin. 9. The method of claim 5 wherein said drug is. an antibiotic, a steroid, or a prostaglandin. 10. A method for producing a monoclonal antibody to a haptenic drug, comprising the steps of Cal immunizing an animal with an immunogen conjugate comprising said drug or an analog thereof chemically coupled to an immunogenic carrier material, Cb fusing spleen cells from said immunized animal which produce antibodies to said drug with myeloma cells to form hybri domas, cloning said hybridomas on culture media selective therefor, d determining an isolated hybridoma which secretes antibody to said drug, e subcloning said hybridoma, f harvesting the secreted monoclonal antibody from said subcloned hybridoma.

## Description
MONOCLONAL ANTIBODIES TO DRUGS, METHODS FOR THEIRPRODUCTION AND SOMATIC CELL HYBRIDOMAS SECRETING THEM . . . BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 1. FIELD OF HE INVENTION The present invention relates to the production of homogeneous, monospecific anti drug antibodies raised from somatic cell hybridomas, more specifically, from lymphocyte hybridomas. Such antibodies are conventionally referred to as monoclonal antibodies and are uniquely characterized by chemical and immunological homogeneity. The present invention provides a method of preparing monoclonal antibodies to drugs, the monoclonal antibodies thus produced, and the somatic cell hybridomas formed in the process. 2. DESCRIPTIOm OF HE PRIOR ART In 1975, Kohler and Milstein reported the production of monoclonal antibodies to sheep red blood cells from hybrid somatic cells formed by fusion of spleen cells from an immunized mouse with murine myeloma cells Nature 256 495 1975 . Since that time, monoclonal antibodies produced by somatic cell hybridization have been reported for viral antigens oprowski et aD, Proc. Gate. Acad. Sci. USA 75 O938 1978 andU.S. Pat.No. 4,196,265 , tumor specific antigens Koprowsk.i et aZ, Proc. Natal. Acad. Sci. USA 74 2985 t1977l and U.S. Pat. No. 4,172,124 , cell surface antigens Milstein et a , Cell Biology International Reports 3 1C1979 , histocompatibility antigens Galfre et al, Nature 268 550 1977 , and a few haptens, such as trinitrophenyl TNP Kohler et at, Eur. J. Immunol. 6 511 1976 , dinitrophenyl DNP Bottcher et aZ, Int. Arch.Allergy Appi. Immunol. 61 248 1980 , and para azophenyl arsonate Tung et al J. ImmunoZ. 116 676 1976 . Prior to the present invention, there was no report of the production of monoclonal antibodies to pharmacological agents, i.e., drugs. Subsequent to the making of the present invention, monoclonal antibodies to the cardiac glycoside digoxin were reported in an abstract Fed. Proc. 39 928 March 1980 . For reviews and commentary on the production of monoclonal antibodies by somatic cell hybridization, reference may be made to the following Lymphocyte Hybridomas, ed. Melchers et aZ, Springer Verlag NewYork 1978 Nature 266 495 1977 C s E News, Jan 1, 1979, p. 15 C E News, April 16, 1979, p. 5 JAMA 242 2161 1979 Med. Lab. Sci. 36 329 1979 andScience 208 692 1980 . SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The present invention provides a method for producing a monoclonal antibody to a drug by somatic cell hydridization techniques. In general, the monoclonal antibody of the present invention is produced by fusing lymphocytes which produce such antibody with myeloma cells to form hybridomas, isolating a hybridoma clone which secretes the desired antibody to the drug of interest, and harvesting the secreted monoclonal antibody. The lymphocytes involved in the hybridization are commonly spleen cells removed from an animal such as a mouse or rat which has been immunized against the drug by injection of an immunogen conjugate comprising the drug or an analog thereof chemically coupled to an immunogenic carrier material, e.g., protein.Preferably, both the lymphocytes and myeloma cells are of murine origin, with murine myeloma cells deficient in the enzyme hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyl transferase being particularly useful. Formed hybridomas which secrete the desired antibody are isolated, usually by cloning on culture media selective for the fused cell hybridomas and determining by appropriate methods an isolated hybridoma which secretes the desired antibody. The homogeneity of the hybridoma cell line is thereafter preferably assured by subcloning the hybridomas selected for their desirable antibody secretion. Harvesting of the secreted monoclonal antibodies is performed by conventional techniques. Proliferation of antibodies can be accomplished by culturing hybridomas in vitro or in vivo, e.g., introducing the hybridoma into an animal such as a mouse and removing antibody rich ascites fluid. Monoclonal antibodies produced according to the present invention are useful in research and industry, for instance for studying the action of drugs and the interaction of drugs and antibodies therefor, and for assaying liquid media and the like for the drug, e.g., in therapeutic drug monitoring by immunoassay. Competitive binding immunoassays using monoclonal anti drug antibodies in the detection or determination of a drug has the advantage of minimizing nonspecific background binding of the labeled drug te.g., drug labeled with a radionucleotide, enzyme, enzyme substrate, fluorescer, chemiluminescer, etc. . Additionally, the use of monoclonal antibodies would maximize the ability to discriminate between the drug under assay and potential cross reacting interferants.Furthermore, in the case of homogeneous immunoassays dependent upon steric or allosteric interactions between an antibody and a labeled drug, monoclonal antibodies can be selected to maximize such interaction. On the other hand, in the case of heterogeneous immunoassays wherein such steric or allosteric interactions are disadvantagous, monoclonal antibodies can be selected to minimize such interaction. DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS The present invention provides monoclonal antibodies to any drug of choice, i.e. , any chemical compound recognized as a pharmacological agent. The drug will be immunogenic, more usually haptenic incapable of stimulating antibody production unless conjugated to a carrier material , and will vary in molecular weight from about 100 to 5000, more commonly between about 100 and 1500. The chemical structure of the drug will vary widely and will include such classes of compounds as antibiotics, steroids, prostaglandins, lactams, barbiturates, amphetamines, xanthines, and so forth. In terms of pharmacological action, the drug will be an antibiotic, an antiepileptic, an antiasthmatic, an antiarrythmic, an antidepressant, an analgesic, a transquilizer, a cardiovascular agent, a sedative, a bronchodialator, or an antineoplastic agent and so forth.Particular drugs for which monoclonal antibodies can be prepared according to the present invention are gentamicin, tobramycin, amikacin, sisomicin, kanamycin, netilmicin, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, ethosuximide, carbamazepine, valproate, theophylline, propranolol, procainamide, quinidine, amitryptiline, desipramine, disopyramide, doxepin, doxorubicin, nortryptiline, methotrexate, imipramine, lidocaine or digoxin. Other drugs include acetaminophen, chlordia zepoxide, chlorpromazine, clonazepam, diazepam, dimethadione, ethotoin, flurazepam, glutethimide, haloperidol, isoniazid, mephobarbital, methsuximide, paramethadione, phensuximide, salicylate, thioridazine, tolbutamide and chlorazepate. Anti drug antibody producing lymphocytes may be obtained from various sites, usually the lymph nodes or spleen. Usually, the selected lymphocytes are spleen cells from an animal which has been immunized against the drug. In the case of haptenic drugs, immunization is accomplished by injection of the host animal, e.g., mouse, rat, or goat, at one or more of a variety of sites with an immunogen conjugate, normally in mixture with an adjuvant. Further injections are made at the same or different sites at regular or irregular intervals thereafter until it is evident that anti drug antibodies are being produced in vivo. Where the drug of interest is haptenic, or only weakly antigenic, the immunogen conjugate used in immunization comprises the drug, or an analog e.g., derivative or synthetic precursor which can stimulate the production of antibodies having an acceptable specificity for the drug, chemically linked by covalent bonds to a conventional immunogenic carrier material, most commonly, an immunogenic protein or polypeptide. For the most part, such proteins and polypeptides will have a molecular weight between 5,000 and 1,000,000 daltons, preferably between 15,000 and 500,000, and more usually between 30,Q00 and 200,000. Generally, proteins taken from one species will be immunogenic when introduced to the blood stream of another species.Particularly useful proteins are albumins, globulins, enzymes, hemocyanins, albuminoids, glutelins, proteins having significant non proteinaceous constituents, e.g., glycoproteins, and the like. The albumins and globulins of molecular weight between 30,000 and 200,000 daltons are particularly preferred. Methods for coupling drugs to such carrier materials are well known in the art Parker, Radioimmunoassay of Biologically Active Compounds, Prentice Hall 1976 . Myeloma cells, that is, malignant cells from primary bone marrow tumors, produce immunoglobulins with unknown specificity and have the ability to propagate in vitro. In contrast, individual lymphocytes characterized by the secretion of immunoglobulins with known specificity, i.e., antibodies capable of binding a known antigen or hapten, are labile under in vitro culturing. A hybridoma, i.e., a hybrid cell formed by fusion of a single lymphocyte with a single myeloma cell, retains the desired immunogical specificity of the lymphocyte parent cell and the desired in vitro stability of the myeloma parent cell.Myeloma cells of various animal origin can be used according to the present invention, for example, myeloma cells from mice, rats, or man, however, for reasons of genetic stability it is preferred to fuse lymphocytes and myeloma cells derived from the same animal species, and most preferably, from the same strain of such animal species. Murine lymphocytes and myeloma cells are most commonly used, particularly from the BALB c strain. Myeloma cells may be of the secreting or nonsecreting type, the former characterized by secretion of immunoglobulin or fragments thereof from the cell into the surrounding medium. Nonsecreting cell lines are preferred since the resulting hybridomas will feature secretion of only the specific immunoglobulin e.g., IgG, IgE, IgM, IgA or IgD classes produced by the parent lymphocyte. Moreover, myeloma cells which have been rendered deficient in a particular nucleotide synthetase enzyme are particularly preferred since such a circumstance provides ready means for isolating hybridomas from nonfused lymphocytes and myeloma cells.When grown on a culture medium containing the substrate or substrates for the nucleotide synthetase enzyme in which the myeloma cell is deficient as the only source of nucleotide formation, hybridomas will survive and proliferate since the deficient enzyme will be provided by retained genetic features from the lymphocyte. However, nonfused myeloma cells will die because of enzyme deficiency and nonfused lymphocytes will die due to their inherent in vitro liability.Preferred myeloma cell lines are those deficient in the enzyme hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyl transferase HGPRT and unable to survive on culture media containing hypoxanthine, aminopterin, and thymidine for nucleotide synthesis such media being conventionally referred to as HAT media Science 145 709 1964 . Particular myeloma cell lines which are useful in the present method are provided inthe following table short complete IgG secretion reference name name X63 P3 X63 Ag8 IgGl, K 1 NS I P3 NSI l Ag4 1 intracellular K 2 Sp2 0 Sp2 0 Agl4 nonsecreting K 3 X63 Ag8 653 nonsecreting K 4 X45 MPC ll X45 6TG IgG2b, K 5 Cl Nature 256 495 C19751 C22 Eur. J.ImmunoZ. 6 292 1976 C31 Nature 226 269 C1978 4 J. Immunol. 123 1548 1979 5 Cell 8 405 1976l Fusing of the lymphocyte and myeloma cells to form hybridomas is accomplished by conventional means, usually by mixing the cells in the presence of a fusing agent such as sendai virus or polyethylene glycol PEG . PEG is the preferred fusing agent and is available in commercial lots which vary widely in degree of purity and suitability for in vitro application. Opti mal molecular weights for PEG fusing agents have not been established, with molecular weights between about 1000 and 4000 being conventionally used.In the present study, PEG of molecular weight between about 1000 and 1500 was found to be of particular advantage. The mechanism of fusion is generally unknown and yields efficiencies of one hybridoma formed for about every 104 normal cells present. The ratio of number of lymphocytes to myeloma cells is usually greater than one, more usually 5 or more. Since an unscreened population of lymphocytes is made available to the myeloma cells for fusion, resulting hybridomas will express a distribution of varying antibody secretions. A hybridoma clone, i.e., a population of cells having a common single cell origin, which secretes the desired antibody is isolated by conventional techniques. A common technique involves the division of the fusion mixture into a multiplicity of diluted volumes in the expectation that the majority of resulting volumes which contain hybridomas will contain no more than one.Preferably, the individual volumes will comprise a selective culture medium, e.g., the HAT medium mentioned above, in which only hybridomas will survive.Aliquots of the separate culture fluids are removed after an appropriate incubation period and subjected to an assay for the desired antibodies. Many methods are commonly used in this screening step, including immunoassay procedures such as radioimmunoassay or noniso topic immunoassays of the homogeneous or heterogeneous type. Culture fluids which are positive for the desired antibody are then usually subcloned, such as by further limiting dilution steps, to assure monoclonal isolation and for stability of the desired hybridoma. The desired monoclonal antibodies can be harvested by several different methods. In one method, the hybridoma clone is cultured in vitro for an appropriate length of time and aliquots of the culture fluid drawn off to provide monoclonal antibody rich fractions.Alternatively, the hybridoma clone is injected into or implanted in a host animal, usually a mouse, resulting in in vitro tumor growth and accumulation of large amounts of monoclonal antibody in the ascites fluid which can be appropriately tapped to permit removal of antibody rich fractions. Monoclonal antibodies of the present invention will be useful in a wide variety of fields. In particular, the anti drug monoclonal antibodies are useful as reagents in immunoassays, especially radioimmunoassays and nonisotopic immunoassays of the homogeneous type see U.S.Patents Nos. 3,817,837 3,935,074 3,996,345 3,998,943 and 4,182,856 and British Patent Specifications Nos.1,552,607 and 2,023,607 and heterogeneous type see U.S.Patents Nos. 3,564,090 4,Q16,043 Re. 29,169 and 4,201,763 . Drug immunoassays have rapidly become an important tool in therapeutic drug monitoring. The availability of monoclonal antibodies to a particular drug of analytical interest provides an antibody reagent for use in immunoassays which is a chemically homogeneous, monospecific reagent, in contrast to the heterogeneity of conventionally obtained antiserum. Hybridomas can be screened to determine the most desirable antibody from the standpoints of binding affinity and crossreactivity and the selected hybridoma stored for long periods of time, providing a means for producing con sistent and well characterized antibodies over a long period of time. The present invention will now be illustrated, but is not intended to be limited, by the following examples. Monoclonal Antibody to GentamicinA. Preparation of gentamicin immunogen A gentamicin hemocyanin immunogen conjugate was prepared by coupling gentamicin to hemocyanin by a conventional carbodiimide method.B. Immunization A BALBIc female mouse, 12 weeks old, was rejected intraperitoneally with 100 ug micrograms of the gentamicin hemocyanin immunogen conjugate in Freund s compiete adjuvant. Seven weeks later, the mouse was reinjected intraperitoneally with 100 pg of gentamicinhemocyanin in Freund s complete adjuvant. Ten days after the second injection, the mouse was bled and the serum tested for antibodies to gentamicin. Four days prior to fusion, the mouse was boosted intraperitoneally with 10 ug soluble gentamicin hemocyanin without adjuvant. C. Isolation of spleen cells The mouse was sacrificed ty cervical dislocation and the spleen was removed asceptically into a 60 x 15 mm millimetersl petri dish containing 5 ml milliliters serum free Dulbecco s Modified Essential Medium DMEM with high glucose CFlow Laboratories, Inc., Inglewood,CA . The spleen was cut into two fragments. Spleen cells were removed from the splenic capsule with curved forceps. The cells were resuspended with a pipet and then filtered through a funnel lined with nitex screening fabric 110 u Tetko, Monterey Park, CA into a 17 x 100 mm tube. The tube was centrifuged at 40C at 350 xg for 7 1 2 minutes.The supernatant was removed and the cells were resuspended by tapping the bottom of the tube, The spleen cells were treated with 5 ml Tris buffered 10 mM, pH 7.2r ammonium chloride O.17M to remove red blood cells.D. Myeloma cells SP2 O Ag 14 Nature 226 269 1978 and X63 Ag8.653 J. Immunol. 23 l548 l979 murine myelomacell lines were grown in Dubecco s Modified Essential Medium DME Flow Laboratories, Inc., Inglewood, CA supplemented with 10 FBS fetal bovine serum Sterile Systems, Logan, UT and 10 4 M molar 8 azaguanine. Cells in mid log phase were used as fusing partners.E. Hybridization procedure The procedure used for generating hybridomas was a modification of that described in Gefter et al, Somatic CetZ Genetics 3 231 1977 . Myeloma cells 2 x 107 washed twice in serum freeDMEM were mixed with 1 x 108 spleen cells from above and the cell mixture spun down. After aspirating all the liquid, the cells were resuspended in a solution of 30 PEG 1000 polyethylene glycol MW1000 in serum free DMEM. The cells remained in this solution for a total of eight minutes. During this eight minute period, the cells were spun at 800 rpm revolutions per minute for three minutes. After the eight minutes had elapsed, the fusion reaction was quenched by diluting with 5 ml of serum free DMEM and the cells were washed once in this medium.The cells were washed a second time in DME supplemented with 10 FBS, NEAA tnon essential amino acid composition from Microbiological Associates,Los Angeles, CA1, gentamicin, glutamine, sodium pyruvate, 10 NCTC 109 medium Microbiological Associates, LosAngeles, CA , bovine insulin C20 I.U. ml and oxalo acetate C1 it and finally resuspended in 40 ml of the same medium in 2 T75 flask. The cells were incubated at 370C in a humidified atmosphere containing 108 CO2.F. Cloning procedures The following day, the cells were pelleted by centrifugation and resuspended in 80 ml of the same medium containing hypoxanthine Cl x 10 4 M , aminopterin 4 x 10 M and thymidine 1.6 x 10 M FIAT medium described in Science 145 709 1964 . The cells were distributed into 96 well, flat bottomed micro titer plates 0.1 ml well . The cells were incubated at 37 C in a humidified atmosphere containing 10 CO2 for one week. At the end of one week, the cultures were fed by adding one drop of the same medium without aminopterin CHT medium and fed in the same manner at weekly intervals. At the end of the first week, both cell lines generated clones. The culture fluid of wells showing growth of cells were tested in a radioimmunoassay for antibodies to gentamicin. 96 well Flex vinyl v bottom microtiter plates Cooke Laboratory Products Div., Dynatech Laboratories, Inc., Alexandria, VA were coated with 100 iil microliters of a 1 mg ml milligrams per milliliters solution to gentamicin BSA at room temperature for two hours or at 4 C overnight. Unattached sites in the wells were saturated with a 10 horse serum PBS phosphate buffered saline solution Diagnostic Procedures for Viral and Rickettsial Infections, ed. Venetti et al, American Public Health Association 1969 p.156 at room temperature for two hours. To the washed plate was added 25 pI of varying dilutions of mouse antigentamicin antiserum Cor culture fluid and the plate was incubated at 4 C for 2 4 hours. After thorough washing of the plate, 50 pl of a 1 5000 dilution of rabbit anti mouse IgG antiserum was added to each well and the plate was incubated for 2 4 hours at 4 C. Finally, 50 p1 of labeled goat anti rabbit IgG antibody C40,Qo0 cpm well diluted with 10 horse serum PBS was added to the washed wells and the plate was allowed to incubate overnight at 40C. The wells were thoroughly washed, dried and separated with a hot wire and then individually counted in an automatic gamma counter. Culture fluids that bound 125I goat anti rabbitIgG giving levels of radiation at least about 2 times greater than background radiation were retested three days later. Hybridomas that secreted antibodies to gentamicin were subcloned by limiting dilution in a 96 well plate containing 1 x 105 non immune BALB c spleen cells in HT medium. The culture fluids from wells showing growth of cells were tested by a radioimmunoassay for antibody secretion. Subclones which secreted desired antibodies were expanded in vitro and then in vivo in Pristane 2,6,10, 14 tetramethylpentadecane primed mice.G. Gentamicin assay In accordance with the Ames TDA Gentamicin test kit Ames Division, Miles Laboratories, Inc., Elkhart, IN , varying levels of monoclonal antibody to gentamicin were added to 3.0 ml of Bicine buffered 8 galactosidase 0.05 p ml . At timed intervals, 100 p1 of FluorogenicGentamicin Reagent was added to each reaction. After incubation for 20 minutes at room temperature the fluorescence was read and gave the following results pl Antibody Fluorescence Units 0.0 93.8 0.1 86.3 0.2 62.1 0.4 13.4 0.6 7.3 0.8 6.7 1.0 5.9 The ahove data shows that the antibody binds theFluorogenic Gentamicin Reagent and inhibits the enzymically promoted fluorescence. Fifty pl of varying concentrations of 1 50 diluted gentamicin standards was added to duplicate reaction mixtures containing Q.15 U of 8 galactosidase and 0.33 p1 of monoclonal antibody in 3.0 ml of Bicine buffer. At timed intervals 100 p1 of FluorogenicGentamicin Reagent was added to each reaction. After incubation at room temperature for 20 minutes the fluorescence was read and gave the following results Gentamicin Average Ug ml Fluorescence Units 0 13.9 1 16.6 4 41.0 8 64.9 12 83.2 These data demonstrate that gentamicin monoclonal antibody recognizes both the drug and the fluorogenic reagent to provide a standard curve for use in the assay for gentamicin.