# Process for the preparation of diaryl esters.

## Abstract
Diaryl esters of aromatic dicarboxylic acids are prepared by directly reacting aromatic dicarboxylic acids with a large molar excess of an aromatic monohydroxy compound, ranging from about 15 17 moles of the aromatic monohy droxy compound which is used as a solvent, reactant and as a carrier to remove water formed during the reaction, the reaction being carried out by heating the reagents at an elevated temperature in the presence of stannous oxide SnO as a catalyst at about 275 C. to about 300 C. and removing water formed during the reaction and a major proportion of the aromatic monohydroxy compound from the reaction mixture. The process is especially applicable to the preparation of diaryl esters of isophthalic and terephtha lic acid, for example diphenyl isophthalate and diphenyl terephthalate by reacting the acids with an aromatic monohydroxy compound, for example, phenol, giving yields of the diesters of 90 95 plus a 5 10 yield of the corresponding monoaryl ester, or half ester. This mixture can then be reacted with a diaryl carbonate, for example, diphenyl carbonate, to convert the half ester into the diester to give a total yield of diester of about 99.9 .

## Claims
CLAIMS 1, A process for preparing diaryl esters of aromatic dicarboxylic acids which comprises reacting an aromatic dicarboxylic acid with a large molar excess of an aromatic monohydroxy compound which reacts with said acid, and in which said acid is soluble and with which it forms a solution, said reaction being carried out by heating said solution at an elevated temperature to form the diaryl ester, and removing the water formed during the reaction and a major proportion of the unreacted aromatic monohydroxy compound, said aromatic monohydroxy compound serving as a carrier to remove the water, said reaction resulting in a product of about 90 95 of the diaryl ester with a content of about 5 10 of the corresponding monoaryl ester of the dicarboxylic acid. 2. A process according to claim 1, wherein the resulting product is heated with a stochiometric excess of a diaryl carbonate to completely convert the monoaryl ester content thereof to the diaryl ester to obtain substantially pure diaryl ester with a total yield of about 99.9 . 3. A process according to claim 1, wherein the aromatic dicarboxylic acid is a member of the group consisting of isophthalic acid and terephthalic acid. 4. A process according to claim 1, wherein the aromatic dicarboxylic acid is isophthalic acid. 5. A process according to claim 1, wherein the aromatic dicarboxylic acid is terephthalic acid. 6. A process according to claim 1, wherein the aromatic dicarboxylic acid is a member of the group consisting of isophthalic acid and terephthalic acid, and the aromatic monohydroxy compound is phenol. 7. A process according to claim 1, wherein the molar ratio of the aromatic dicarboxylic acid to the aromatic monohydroxy compound is about 1 to about 15 17, the heating is carried out at about 275or. to about 3000C. for about 5 hours, about 60 70X of the aromatic monohydroxy compound is removed from the reaction mixture along with the water formed during the reaction by distillation over a period of about 3 5 hours and a product comprising about 90 95 of the diaryl ester with a content of about 5 10X of the monoaryl ester is obtained. 8. A process according to claim 1, wherein stannous oxide is employed as a catalyst in the reaction. 9. A process according to claim 7, wherein stannous oxide is employed as a catalyst and the resulting product obtained is heated with a stoichiometric excess of a diaryl carbonate to completely convert the monoaryl ester to obtain purified diaryl ester. 10. A process according to claim 9, wherein the aromatic dicarboxylic acid is a member of the group consisting of isophthalic and terephthalic acid, the aromatic hydroxy compound Is phenol, and the diaryl carbonate is diphenyl carbonate, and the diaryl ester obtained is a member of the group consisting of diphenyl isophthaiate and diphenyl terephthalate. 11. A process for purifying a crude diaryl ester of an aromatic dicarboxylic acid having present as an impurity the corresponding monoaryl half ester of such acid, which comprises reacting said crude product with a stoichiometric excess of a diaryl carbonate at a temperature of about 2450C to about 300 C. for from about 30 minutes to about 2 hours to completely convert the half ester to the diaryl ester, and then distilling the reaction product to recover pure diaryl ester of the aromatic dicarboxylic acid. 12. A process according to claim 11, in which the diaryl ester is a member of the group consisting of diphenyl isophthalate and diphenyl terephthalate and the monoaryl half ester is a member of the group consisting of monophenyl isophthalate and monophenyl terephthalate. 13. A process according to claim 11 wherein the reaction is carried out in the presence of stannous oxide as the catalyst. 14. A process according to claim 12 wherein the diaryl ester is diphenyl isophthalate and the monoaryl half ester is monophenyl isophthalate. 15. A process according to claim 12 wherein the diaryl ester is diphenyl terephthalate and the monoaryl half ester is monophenyl terephthalate. 16. A process which comprises reacting a monoaryl ester of an aromatic dicarboxylic acid with a stoichiometric excess of a diaryl carbonate at an elevated temperature to produce the corresponding diaryl ester of the aromatic dicarboxylic acid and recovering the diaryl ester. 17. A process according to claim 16, wherein the monoaryl ester is a member of the group consisting of monophenyl isophthalate and monophenyl terephthalate and the diaryl carbonate is diphenyl carbonate. 18. A process according to claim 16 wherein the molar ratio of the diaryl carbonate to the monoaryl ester is about 1.5 moles to about 4 moles of the former to 1 mole of the latter. 19. A process according to claim 18, wherein the reaction is carried out at a temperature of about 250 C to about 3000C and maintained for about 30 minutes to about 2 hours.

## Description
Process for the Preparation of Diaryl Esters Background of the Invention Various methods have been disclosed for preparing diaryl esters of aromatic carboxylic acids, such as isophthalic and terephthalic acids, by reacting the acids with an aromatic monohydroxy compound, for example, phenol. In this connection reference is made to U.S. Letters Patents Nos. 3,413,336 granted November 26, 1968 and 4,124,566 granted November 7, 1978. In U.S. Patent 3,413,336 an additional agent, acetic anhydride, is employed in carrying out the reaction which is used with equivalent amounts or a slight excess of a phenol col. 2, lines 31 32 . In col. 3, lines 2 3, it is also stated it is generally not advisable for reasons of economics, to use an excess of more than 25 . The specific examples I tV disclose respectively 2 moles 25 , t moles lOX , 2 moles 20X and 2 moles 20X . In U.S. Patent No. 4,124,566 it is stated that in ...the most preferred state of the esterification reaction...the aromatic monohydroxy compound phenol is present only in a low concentration in the aromatic dicarboxylic acid slurry. col. 6, lines 29 34 . In theExamples, the molar ratio of the acid to the phenol is about 1 to 4 and 1 to 6 moles. Furthermore, an aromatic hydrocarbon medium such as ethylbenzene is required in the process. Summary of the Invention It has now been found that diaryl esters of aromatic dicarboxylic acids can be readily and simply prepared by reacting the dicarboxylic acids with a large molar excess, for example, in a molar ratio of about 15 to about 17 moles of an aromatic monohydroxy compound to one mole of the dicarboxylic acid, the aromatic monhydroxy compound employed being one that serves as a solvent, reactant and carrier to remove the water formed during the reaction. The 15 17 moles of aromatic hydroxy compound specified is a convenient but not necessary excess. One may accomplish the same results for example by initially using one half this quantity and adding the remainder at temperature under pressure after aromatic hydroxy compound along with water of reaction has been distilled.Still another option would be to distill the aromatic hydroxy compound and water of reaction under pressure, remove the water, recycle the aromatic hydroxy compound without cooling or depressurizing. The subject process has the advantage among others, of eliminating the use of acetic anhydride, and aromatic hydrocarbons, such as ethylbenzene, heretofore employed. The excess aromatic monohydroxy compound, such as phenol, which is employed is readily recovered and can be reused by returning it to a new reaction batch. The subject process results in a product containing about 90 95 percent of the diaryl ester of the aromatic dicarboxylic acid plut a content of about 5 10 percent of the corresponding monoaryl or half ester of the dicarboxylic acid.This product can then be reacted, if further purification is desired, with a diaryl carbonate to convert the monozryl ester residue to the diaryl ester to give a total yield of about 99.9 percent, or substantially pure diaryl ester. Description of the Preferred Embodiment In general the process of the subject invention comprises reacting an aromatic dicarboxylic acid with a large molar excess of an aromatic monohydroxy compound which reacts with said acid, and in which said acid is soluble, and with which it forms a solution. The reaction is carried out by heating said solution at an elevated temperature to form the diaryl ester, and removing water formed during the reaction and a major portion of the unreacted aromatic monohydroxy compound.The aromatic monohydroxy compound serves as a carrier to remove the water, said reaction resulting in a mixture of about 90 95 of the diaryl ester and about 5 10 of the corresponding monoaryl ester of the dicarboxylic acid As aromatic dicarboxylic acids it is preferred to use a member of the group consisting of isophthalic and terephthalic acid, and their derivatives such as 5 chloroisophthalic or methylterephthalic or dichloroterephthalic acid. As an example of the aromatic monohydroxy compounds it is preferred to use phenol. Other examples are isomeric cresols, or xylenols, butyl phenol, benxyl phenol, m cresol, and b napthol, and the like. The aromatic monohydroxy compound is employed in a molar ratio of about 1 mole of the aromatic dicarboxylic acid to about 15 17 moles of the aromatic monohydroxy compound. The heating and distillative removal of byproduct water and aromatic hydroxy compound is carried out at an elevated temperature of about 2750C to about 3000C. for about 1 hour to about 5 hours. This generally suffices to remove 90 95X of the water of reaction which translates into a 90 95 yield of diester. It is preferred to carry out the reaction in the presence of stannous oxide SnO as a catalyst, in an amount of 0.1 to 0.5 mole percent based on the aromatic dicarboxylic acid. The resulting product comprises about 90 952 of the diaryl ester of the aromatic dicarboxylic acid plus a content of about 5 10X of the corresponding monoaryl, or half ester, of the aromatic dicarboxylic acid. If a pure diaryl ester is desired, purification of the aforesaid product is carried out by reacting it with a stoichiometric excess of a diaryl carbonate in a molar ratio of about 1.5 mole to about 4 moles of the diaryl carbonate to one mole of the half ester content in the crude product to completely convert the monoaryl ester to the diaryl ester.The reaction is carried out at a temperature of from about 245 C. to about 3000C. for about 30 minutes to about 2 hours. The reaction mixture is then distilled at a gradually higher vacuum and temperature with aromatic monohydroxy compound being removed first, then the excess diaryl carbonate, and finally pure diaryl ester of the aromatic dicarboxylic acid with a yield of about 99.9X. Thus, the subject invention also provides a process particularly advantageous for the purification of diphenyl isophthalate and diphenyl terephthalate where these esters are prepared by reacting phenol with isophthalic or terephthalic acid. In the reaction of these acids with phenol some corresponding monophenyl or half ester, of isophthalic or terephthalic acid is formed and remains in the resulting product as an impurity. The half ester cannot be removed by distillation. In general, the subject process for removing the undesired half ester to obtain the pure diester comprises reacting a stoichiometric excess of diphenyl carbonate of from about 1.5 moles to about 4 moles based on the half ester content with the crude product at an elevated temperature of about 2450C to about 3000C for about 30 minutes to about several hours for example, 2 hours, to completely convert the half ester into the diester, and then distilling the reaction product to obtain pure diphenyl isophthalate or diphenyl terephthalate. Neither of the above mentioned U.S. Patent Nos.3,413,336 or 4,124,566 refer to or deal with the half ester impurity or its converstion to the diester. In U.S. Patent 3,413,336, column 3, lines 39 42 it is stated The diaryl esters are obtained in a yield of over 90 . They may be easily obtained in any desired degree of purity by simple distillation or recrystallization. In Examples I IV the diaryl ester is distilled off to give yields of 93 , 90 , and 90.5 respectively. In U.S. Patent No. 4,124,566, which is concerned with preparing polyesters, the diaryl ester product obtained in the first step is directly converted into polymer by reaction with an aromatic dihydroxy compound, such as bisphenol A. There is no mention of a half ester or purification of the diaryl ester product either by crystallization or distillation before it is converted into the polyer. The subject invention is further described in the Examples which follow. These examples are preferred embodiments and are not to be construed as limitations. EXAMPLE I Terephthalic acid 1 mole , phenol 15 moles and stannous oxide SnO as catalyst 0.1 0.5 mole based on the terephthalic acid are charged into an autoclave, provided with a mechanical stirrer and a needle valve to which is connected a distillation column. The reaction mixture is heated to 3000C. over the course of 1.5 hours during which time the pressure rises to 250 psi. The needle valve is opened and phenol and water formed during the reaction are distilled over the course of three hours.During this period 60X of the original amount of phenol is distilled off. Phenol is used in this reaction, as a reagent, as a solvent for the acid, and as a carrier to remove the water. The initial distilling phenol contains 14 by weight of water while the final distilling phenol contains about 0.2X water. A product is obtained which contains approximately 95 of diphenyl ester and approximately 5 of monophenyl ester.The total yield of diphenyl ester, if desired, can be increased and a purer product obtained by treating the mixture with diphenyl carbonate molar ratio of 1.5 moles of diphenyl carbonate to 1 mole of the monophenyl ester and heating to 3000C. for about 30 minutes after which time the 5 monophenyl ester content is completely converted to diphenyl terephthalate to give a total yield of 99.9 of said diphenyl terephthalate. The reaction mixture is then distilled with phenol removed at 200 22û C 30 lûOmn, diphenyl carbonate excess removed at 240 26O0C. lO 20mm and, finally, the diphenyl terephthalate recovered at 240 260 C. lmn. EXAMPLE 2 Example 1 is repeated except that the same amount of isophthalic acid is employed. The initial product obtained contains approximately 95X of diphenyl isophthalate and approximately 5 of the monophenyl ester of isophthalic acid.When it is further treated as described in the second and third paragraphs of Example 1, a total yield of diphenyl isophthalate of 99.9X is obtained. The following examples which follow are preferred embodiments of the novel process of the invention for purifying products comprising diaryl esters of aromatic dicarboxylic acid and the corresponding monozryl, or half ester, of aromatic carboxylic acids. EXAMPLE 3 Terephthalic acid 1 mole , phenol 10 moles and stannous oxide as catalyst 0.1 0.5 mole based on the terephthalic acid are charged into an autoclave provided with a mechanical stirrer and a needle valve to which is connected a distillation column. The reaction mixture is heated to 300or. over the course of 1.5 hours during which time the pressure rises to 250 psi. The needle valve is opened and phenol and water formed during the reaction are distilled off. At the end of 1 hour of distillation, an additional 2.5 moles of phenol is added to the autoclave under pressure. This is repeated at the end of 2 hours of distillation. Over a period of 3 hours 60X of the total quantity of phenol charged to the autoclave is distilled off.Phenol is used in this reaction, as a reagent, as a solvent for the acid, and as a carrier to remove the water. The initial distilling phenol contains 14X by weight of water while the final distilling phenol contains about 0.2X water. A product is obtained which contains approximately 95S of diphenyl ester and approximately 5S of monophenyl ester.The total yield of diphenyl ester, if desired, can be increased as outlined in Example 1. EXAMPLE 4 Example 3 is repeated except that the same amount of isophthalic acid is employed. The initial product obtained contains approximately 5Z of the monophenyl ester of isophthalic acid When it is further treated as described in the second and third paragraphs of Example 1 a total yield of diphenyl isophthalate of 99.9X is obtained. EXAMPLE 5 Crude diphenyl terephthalate 509 obtained by the process described in Examples 1 and 2 and containing approximately 60.9 phenol, 6.7X monophenyl terephthalate half acid ester , and 32.4 diphenyl terephthalate is charged to a 250 ml, 3 necked flask equipped with a mechanical stirrer,Vigreux column and nitrogen N2 inlet. At this time, 9.0 grams of diphenyl carbonate 3 1 molar ratio based on the half acid ester and 0.10 grams of stannous oxide 0.5 mole based on the half acid ester are added to the reaction flask and the mixture is heated to a pot temperature of 280 2900C for approximately 2 hours. This procedure results in conversion of the half acid ester to diphenyl terephthalate.The mixture is then distilled with phenol removed at 200 220 C 30 lOOmm, diphenyl carbonate excess if removed at 240 260 C110 20mm, and finally, diphenyl terephthalate is recovered at 240 260 C 1 mn. EXAMPLE 6 Crude diphenyl isophthalate 509 obtained by the process described in Examples 1 and 2 and containing approximately 55.2X phenol, 2.8t monophenyl isophthalate half acid ester , and 42.0 diphenyl isopthalate is charged to a 250 ml flask as in Example 5. At this time, 3.7 grams of diphenyl carbonate 3 1 molar ratio based on half acid ester and 0.05 grams of stannous oxide 0.50 mole X based on the half acid ester are added to the reaction flask and the mixture is heated to a pot temperature of 280 2900C for approximately 2 hours, resulting in conversion of the half acid ester to diphenyl isophthalate.The mixture is then distilled as in Example 5 with diphenyl isophthalate recovered at 240 2600C 1 mm. The subject invention also embraces the process of preparing diaryl esters of aromatic dicarboxylic acids by reacting a monaryl ester of a dicarboxylic acid, that is the half ester, as such, not as an impurity in a crude diaryl ester of a dicarboxylic acid with a diaryl carbonate. In general the subject process comprises reacting a stochiometric excess of a diaryl carbonate from about 1.5 to about 4 moles based on the amount of half ester at an elevated temperature of about 250or to about 3000C for about 30 minutes to two hours to completely convert the half ester into the diaryl ester, and recovering the latter, as for example, by distillation. When the process is applied to reacting with diphenyl carbonate monophenyl terephthalate or monophenyl isophthalate half esters , the proportion of reagents and conditions are the same as set forth in Examples 3 to 6, except that the half esters, as such, are employed as the starting materials instead of crude diphenyl terephthalate or crude diphenyl isophthalate in which the half esters are present as an impurity. The foregoing detailed description and examples will suggest many variations to those skilled in the art.All such fariations are within the full scope of the appended claims.