# Filter device.

## Abstract
The subject of the invention is a filter device for the filtration of radiation in a measurement device measuring radiation. The filter device 7 comprises several different filters as fitted into one detachable disk 1 . According to the invention, the filter device comprises a magnet 12 which is placed at a vertical plane passing through the centre axis 13 of the filter disk 1 , not higher than at the level of the centre axis 13 . The filter disk 1 includes a second magnet 4 placed at the centre axis 13 of the disk 1 . The opposite poles of these two magnets 4, 12 are arranged as facing towards each other.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A filter device for the filtration of radiation in a measurement device measuring radiation, said filter device comprising several different filters 2 as fitted into one detachable disk 1 , c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the filter device 7 comprises a magnet 12 which is placed at a vertical plane passing through the centre axis 13 of the filter disk 1 , not higher than at the level of the centre axis, that the filter disk 1 includes a second magnet 4 placed at the centre axis 13 of the disk, and that the opposite poles N, S of these two magnets 4, 12 are arranged as facing towards each other. 2. A filter device as claimed in claim 1, c ha r a c t e r i z e d in that the magnet 12 of the filter device 1 is placed underneath the centre axis 13 of the filter disk 1 . 3. A filter device as claimed in claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the magnet 12 of the filter device 1 is placed at the level of the centre axis 13 of the filter disk 1 .

## Description
Filter device The present invention is concerned with a filter device for the filtration of radiation in a measurement device measuring radiation, said filter device comprising several different filters as fitted into one detachable disk. By means of the device in accordance with the present invention, it is possible to exchange several filters simultaneously and rapidly, e.g. for a photometer or fluorometer. Moreover, the present invention permits automatic taking into use of the filter at each particular time required, as well as ensures that the filters are in the correct position in relation to the source of radiation. In the currently available measurement devices e.g., photometer or fluorometer the filters, which are often high standard interference filters, are exchanged in their own cassettes manually, or the filters are mounted in manually or automatically movable disks which are a fixed component of the device or hard to detach and to replace. It also happens frequently that the filters are placed incorrectly, with the wrong side towards the source of radiation, in which case the filters become heated in excess of the permitted temperature values and are therefore aged sooner than would be normal. The device in accordance with thë pre sent invention is characterized in that the filter device comprises a magnet which is placed at a vertical plane passing through the centre axis of the filter disk bt higher than at the level of the centre axis, that the filter disk includes a second magnet placed at the centre axis of the disk, and that the opposite poles of these two magnets are arranged as facing towards each other. By means of the device in accordance with the invention, several advantages are achieved, such as 1. simultaneous replacement of several filters takes place in a few seconds.2. in connection with the replacement, the filter wheel does not have to be detached or fastened by means of any particular units.3. being always used in the correct position, premature damaging and ageing of the filter is prevented. 4, positioning of the filter wheel in the wrong way is impossible, because the error is noticed immediately.5. when making use of the present invention, the filter mechanism can be made simple, and no precise tolera ces are necessary, whereby considerable savings are made in the production costs. An embodiment of the invention will be described in more detail below with reference to the attached drawing, wherein Figure 1 shows a device in accordance with the invention as a front view, in section, and without the filter disk, Figure 2 shows the device as a top view and partly in section, and Figure 3 shows the same as a side view. The filter wheel has, e.g., eight filters 2 in compartments of their own. Usually the filters 2 admit the passage of a certain wave length band, whose properties vary depending on the type of the filter.The filters 2 are attached to the filter wheel 1 by means of support units 3 so that they are placed equally far from the centre point 13 of the wheel 1. The filter wheel 1 also includes a magnetic piece 4 and an auto matically readable code 5 indicating the position of the filter wheel 1 and of the various filters 2 pasfitioned therein. The magnet piece is placed at the centre point of the wheel. The filter wheel 1 is placed in the filter mechanism 7 of the measurement device, where the filter wheel 1 rests on rotary support units 8 and 8 . The motor 10 is directly coupled to one of the support units 8 . When the motor 10 rotates the said support unit, the filter wheel 1 rotates along with one of the support units and as supported by both support units. The filter mechanism 7 includes a stationary magnet piece 12, which is somewhat underneath the centre 13 of the filter wheel 1. At this centre 13 there is the magnet piece 4 of the filter wheel 1, whereby the N andS poles of the magnet pieces 4 and 12 tend to approach each other. The magnet pieces are positioned so that their N and S poles are next to each other, whereby the magnetic force pulls the filter wheel 1 downwards and, at the same time, against the support units 8 and 8 of the filter mechanism 7. In this case the filter wheel 1 is correctly positioned in the filter mechanism 7, whereby the motor 10 and the support unit 8 constituting an extension of the motor are capable of rotating the filter wheel 1, and the filters 2 placed therein are in the correct position. If the filter wheel 1 is placed in the incorrect position into the filter mechanism 7, the equal poles of the magnet pieces 4 and 12 reject each other. The operator easily notices this rejection, e.g., thereby that when the filter wheel is being placed into position, a little jerk is felt in the hand and the filter wheel does not rotate even though the motor is operated. Should different filters have the effect that the disk is out of balance, this does, nevertheless, not have the effect that the gravitational force tends to turn the disk into only one certain position in the device, because the magnetic force keeps the disk in the set position. The magnetic force also increases the friction between the drive wheel 8 and the disk 1. The invention is not restricted to the above embodiment only, but it may show even considerable variation within the scope of the patent claims. The magnet of the filter device does not necessarily have to be placed underneath the centre axis of the filter disk, but it may also be placed at the level of the centre axis.