# Process for recovering oil from water with a polymeric adsorbent, and regeneration thereof.

## Abstract
The regeneration of polymeric adsorbent having oil adsorbed thereon is achieved by contacting the adsorbent with specified non ionic surfactant at a pH of 9 to 13. This regeneration process is used in a process for recovering oil from water contaminated with said oil. The oil contaminated water is passed through a bed of polymeric adsorbent which is capable of preferentially adsorbing the oil, and substantially oil free water passes from said column. The regeneration of adsorbent is achieved by eluting the adsorbed oil with an aqueous solution of non ionic surfactant at a pH of 9 to 13 said surfactant having the general formula RNH CH₂CH₂O

## Claims
Claims 1. A process for the removal of oil from polymeric adsorbent upon which it is adsorbed which comprises contacting the adsorbent with an aqueous solution of non ionic surfactant at a pH of 9 to 13, said surfactant being of the general formula RNH CH2CM20 nH wherein R is an alkyl group of 10 to 24 carbon atoms and n is 1 to 25 to elute the adsorbed oil and regenerate the adsorbent. 2. A process for recovering oil from water contaminated with said oil comprising the steps of passing water contaminated with oil through a bed of polymeric adsorbent capable of preferentially adsorbing oil, passing substantially oil free water from said bed, eluting the adsorbed oil and regenerating the adsorbent by a process as claimed in claim 1, adjusting the pH of the oil containing eluate to from 2 to 6 thereby creating a two phase liquid of oil and acidified surfactant solution, removing the oil from said two phase liquid and readjusting the pH of the acidified surfactant solution to from 9 to 13. 3. A process according to claim 1 or 2 wherein said surfactant is caused to flow upward through the bed of polymeric adsorbent at such a rate as to scour the adsorbent and put adsorbent particles into motion. 4. A process according to any preceding claim wherein the aqueous solution of surfactant contains 1 to about 25 by weight of surfactant. 5. A process according to any preceding claim wherein the pH of the aqueous surfactant solution is from 10 to 12 when used to regenerate the adsorbent. 6. A process according to any of claims 2 to 5 wherein the pH of the aqueous surfactant solution is adjusted to from 2 to 4 after contact with the adsorbent. 7. A process according to any of claims 2 to 6 wherein the pH of the acidified surfactant solution is readjusted to from 10 to 12.

## Description
Regeneration of Polymeric Adsorbent Having Oil Adsorbed Thereon This invention is concerned with the regeneration of polymeric adsorbent by its removal of oil adsorbed thereon which process is particularly useful in processes, with which the invention is also concerned, for the removal of oil from large bodies of water contaminated with such oil such as streams, ponds, and oceanic areas where oil contamination has occurred. U.S. Patent 3,531,463 teaches the use of certain polymeric adsorbents to remove a water immiscible organic compound, such as oil, from an aqueous system in which the organic compound is dispersed, emulsified or suspended. This patent, however, also teaches that the adsorbed liquid is removed by distillation, treatment with steam, or by leaching or desorption with water, acid, or alkaline solutions. Thus, this patent teaches cumbersome methods for removing the adsorbed liquid. U.S. Patents 3,102,100 3,107,726 and 3,108,059 all teach the use of surfactants to remove oil from tar sands and other oil bearing formations in strip mining and in water flooding operations. Although these patents admirably accomplish the objects of their respective inventions, such procedures could not be utilized for removing oil from large bodies of water such as streams, oceanic oil spills, and lakes and ponds because huge holding tanks would be necessary and there would be a foaming problem as well as the handling problems involved. It is an object of this invention to provide a process whereby an adsorbent can be regenerated by removal of oil adsorbed thereon and consequently to provide an adsorption process which is effective in removing oil from large bodies of water contaminated with such oil. According to this invention there is provided a process for the removal of oil from polymeric adsorbent upon which it is adsorbed which comprises contacting the adsorbent with an aqueous solution of non ionic surfactant at a pH of 9 to 13, said surfactant being of the general formulaRNH CH2CH20 nH wherein R is an alkyl group of 10 to 24 carbon atoms and n is I to 25, to elute the adsorbed oil and regenerate the adsorbent. Using the process of the invention as one of its steps, the invention also provides a process for the removal of oil from water contaminated with it, comprising the steps of passing the contaminated water through a bed of polymeric adsorbent capable of preferentially adsorbing oil, removing substantially oil free water from said bed, regenerating said adsorbent by eluting the adsorbed oil with an aqueous solution of non ionic surfactant, at a pH of from 9 to 13, said surfactant being of the general formula RNH CH2CH20 nH wherein R is an alkyl group of 10 to 24 carbon atoms and n is 1 to 25, adjusting the pH of the oil containing eluate to from 2 to 6 thereby creating a two phase liquid of oil and acidified surfactant solution, removing the oil from said two phase liquid and readjusting the pH of the acidified surfactant solution to from 9 to 13. The process of the invention can be used to remove oil from water wherein the oil is present in amounts as low as 200 parts or less per million parts of water. The equipment used may be designed so that it is movable from one location to another. Thus, the process may be practiced using equipment which is situated upon a barge or other floating platform located in the middle of the water which is contaminated with oil. In addition, the oil can be recovered and may be used for its originally intended purpose. If desired, prior to passing the oil contaminated water through the bed of resin, usually in a column, the oil may be physically skimmed from a relatively quiet body of oil contaminated water. The size of the column used may vary and is governed by economic and hydraulic considerations and the normal considerations attendant to a mobile unit and its location. Useful polymeric adsorbents include those which have a particle size of from 10 to 100 mesh U.S. Standard Sieve and preferably from 20 to 60 mesh and a porosity of at least 10 percent volume of pores in the adsorbent body or bodies and a surface area of at least 5 square meters per gram of the adsorbent and a maximum of 2000 square meters per gram of the adsorbent. Among the polymeric adsorbents which may be used are the macroreticular cross linked polymers of condensation or addition types such as those disclosed in U.S. Patent Specifications 3,531,463 and 3,663,467. Preferred adsorbents in this invention are those stated to be preferred in the U.S.Specifications first mentioned the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated into this specification by reference.Other polymeric adsorbents are well known to those skilled in the art and the invention is not to be construed as limited to any particular polymeric adsorbent. It is particularly preferred to use a polymeric adsorbent which is a styrene divinylbenzene ethylvinylbenzene terpolymer. It is preferred, in the surfactant, that R be from 12 to 14. Any alkyl amine or mixture thereof may be used to prepare the surfactant which is used to regenerate the polymeric adsorbent provided that the carbon chain length, or average length in the case of a mixture of amines, of such amine is not greater than 24. Thus, amines such as dodecyl, hexadecyl, stearyl and tetracosanyl may be used. The alkyl amine used is condensed with an average of 1 to 25 moles of ethylene oxide and preferably 5 to 10 moles of ethylene oxide. If an average of more than 25 moles of ethylene oxide are used, then the resultant surfactant will not have the properties desired for regenerating the adsorbent. The surfactant is generally used as an aqueous solution containing from about 1 to about 25 of surfactant by weight of the solution. Below 1 concentration in regeneration becomes inefficient. Although amounts in excess of 25 surfactant in aqueous solution may be used. There is no advantage in using concentrations above 25 which are therefore economically disadvantageous. The substantially oil free water can be returned to its source without further treatment. When the capacity of the adsorbent for adsorbing oil is substantially exhausted, the surfactant solution, which is at a pH of from 9 to 13 is passed through the adsorbent usually in an amount of from about 1 to about 4 bed volumes of surfactant solution. A bed volume is the volume the adsorbent occupies in the column . Using less than 1 bed volume the regeneration of the adsorbent may be incomplete. Although more than 4 bed volumes may be used, there is generally no advantage. In a particularly preferred embodiment, the surfactant solution is passed upward through the polymeric adsorbent at such a rate that the solution scours the adsorbent and puts the polymeric adsorbent particles in motion. The resultant water oil surfactant emulsion is then transmitted to a holding tank of suitable size and the emulsion is acidified to a pH of from 2 to 6. The emulsion is thus broken and a two phase liquid results. The upper phase is the oil and the lower phase is the acidified surfactant solution. The oil phase is then removed for example by skimming or decanting leaving a single phase of acidified surfactant solution. Any strong acid may be used to acidify the emulsion.Such acids are well known in the art. Preferred is sulfuric acid. The acidified surfactant solution is then passed into an alkalizing tank and a suitable alkali, such as sodium hydroxide, added to readjust the pM of the solution to that which existed prior to acidification. The surfactant is then ready for reuse as regenerant. In this specification we use the word oil according to its conventional definition, that is to say a liquid, not miscible with water, generally combustible and soluble in ether, typically a fixed oils fatty substances of vegetable and animal organisms contain esters usually glycerol esters of fatty acids b volatile or essential oils odorous principles of vegetable organisms contain terpenes, camphors and related compounds c mineral oils, fuel oils and lubricants hydro carbons derived from petroleum and its products. One embodiment of the invention will now be more fully described for illustration only, in the following Example.Example Oil contaminated water is prepared by stirring in a beaker, for 16 hours, 200 liters of deionized tap water and two gallons of crude oil. The mixture is allowed to stand for two hours and the oil floating on top of this mixture is siphoned off. The turbid oil water mixture is fed to a glass column which contains 50 milliliters of a 20 to 60 mesh polymeric adsorbent which is a terpolymer of styrene divinylbenzeneethylvinylbenzene. The adsorbent beads have a porosity of 42 by volume and a surface area of 300 square meters per gram of adsorbent. The glass column is 100 centimeters tall and has an inside diameter of 1 centimeter. The oil water mixture is flowed through the adsorbent containing column at the rate of 4 bed volumes per hour. The treated water leaving the adsorbent column is clear and essentially free of oil. After the adsorbent is substantially exhausted, the flow of the oil water mixture through the column is stopped and the liquid is drained from the column until the level of liquid within the column is 1 centimeter above the adsorbent beads. An aqueous regenerant solution containing 20 of dodecyl amine condensed with 5 moles of ethylene oxide and having a pH of 11 is prepared. This regenerant solution is passed upward through the adsorbent bed at a rate such that the adsorbent beads expand from 75 to 100 percent of the original static bed depth. A total of 4 bed volumes 200 milliliters of regenerant solution is passed through the bed. After the first 2 bed volumes of regenerant have been passed through the column, the column is sparged with air for 5 minutes. After the four bed volumes of regenerant solution have been passed through the column, the adsorbent bead is rinsed with two bed volumes 100 milliliters of water at a flow rate of two bed volumes per hour in the down flow direction prior to the adsorbent bed being suitable for reuse. The resultant emulsified oil water eluted from the column is held in a holding tank. A 10 percent aqueous solution of sulfuric acid is added to the holding tank until the pH of the mixture is adjusted to 3. A two phase liquid mixture results. The oil upper phase is then removed by physically skimming the oil from the two phase liquid. The remaining phase of the acidified spent regenerant solution is then neutralized with a 25 percent aqueous sodium hydroxide solution so that the pH of the lower layer is adjusted to 12. The regenerant solution is now ready to be reused.