# Vehicle hydraulic power steering system with means for controlling the operation of a power steering pump.

## Abstract
In a vehicle hydraulic power steering system, the operation of a pump 9 for supplying a pressurized working fluid to a power steering unit 6 is controlled in accordance with an output signal of a control means 20 which is responsive to detected values of a speed of the rotation of a steering wheel and a pressure of the working fluid supplied to said power steering unit 6 . The operation of the pump is initiated when the steering wheel 1 is turned at a speed of the rotation higher than a predetermined value and it is ceased when the pressure of the working fluid is reduced below a predetermined value due to the termination of a power assist operation of the power steering system.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A vehicle hydraulic power steering system including a pump 9 for supplying a pressurized working fluid and a power steering unit 6 supplied with said working fluid to assist a drivers steering effort through a steering wheel 1 , comprising means 17 for detecting a steering effort applied to the steering wheel means 19 for detecting the pressure of the working fluid supplied to said power steering unit and control means 20 connected to said steering effort detecting means 17 and said pressure detecting means 19 for producing an output signal for actuating said pump 9 when the steering effort is applied to the steering wheel and or the pressure of the working fluid is above a predetermined level. 2. A vehicle hydraulic power steering system as claimed in calim 1, further comprising means 26 for keeping the operation of said pump 9 for a predetermined time after a termination of the output signal of said control means 20 . 3. A vehicle hydraulic power steering system as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein said steering effort detecting means comprises a torque sensor for sensing a torque about a steering shaft 3 connected to said steering wheel 1 . 4. A vehicle hydraulic power steering system as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein said steering effort detecting means comprises a rotational speed sensor for sensing a speed of the rotation of the steering wheel 1 . 5. A vehicle hydraulic power steering system as claimed in claim 4, wherein said rotational speed sensor 17 comprises a light coupled position transducer including a shutter disk mounted on a steering shaft 3 and a light source and light sensor pair for producing an electric pulse signal responsive to a speed of the rotation of said steering wheel 1 and a frequency to voltage converter 18 for converting said electric pulse signal into a voltage signal. 6. A vehicle hydraulic power sterling system as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein said pressure detecting means 19 comprises a pressure transducer incorporating therein a diaphragm and a metal thin film gauge mechanically connected thereto, disposed at a working fluid inlet port of the power steering unit. 7. A vehicle hydraulic power steering system as claimed in claim 1 wherein said control meams 20 comprises a first comparator 21 which compares an output signal of said steering effort detecting means 17 representing a steering effort with a first reference level for producing an output signal when the voltage level of said steering effort representing signal is higher than said first reference level a second comparator 22 which compares an output signal of said pressure detecting means representing a working fluid pressure with a second reference signal for producing an output signal when the voltage level of said working fluid pressure representing signal is higher than said second reference level a NOT circuit having an input and an output, said input of the NOT circuit being connected to an output of said second comparator 22 an AND gate having inputs and an output, said inputs of the AND gatc being connected to an output of said first comparator 21 and the output of saidNOT circuit and an OR gate having inputs and an output, said inputs of the OR gate being respectively connected to said outputs of the second comparator 22 and said AND gate. 8. A vehicle hydraulic power steering system as claimed in claim 2, wherein said control means 200 comprises a first comparator 21 which compares an output signal of said steering effort detecting means 17 representing a steering effort with a first reference level for producing an output signal when the voltage level of the said steering effort representing signal is highier than said first reference level a a second comparator 22 which compares an output signal of said pressure detecting means 19 representing a working fluid pressure with a second reference signal for producing an output signal when the voltage level of said working fluid pressure representing signal is higher than said second reference level a NOT circuit having an input and output, said input of the NOT circuit being connected to an output of said comparator 22 an AND gate having inputs and output, said inputs of the AND gate being connected to an output of said first comparator 21 and the output of said NOT circuit and an OR gate having inputs and an output, said inputs of the OR gate being respectively connected to said outputs of the second comparator 22 and said AND gate, and wherein said keeping means comprises a delay circuit 26 connected to said second comparator 22 for delaying a turn off time of said second comparator 22 , said inputs of the NOT circuit and the OR gate being connected to an output of said delay circuit. 9. A vehicle hydraulic power steering system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said pump 9 is driven by an engine of said vehicle, and wherein an electro magnetic clutch 16 responsive to the output signal of said control means 20 is disposed between said pump and said engine. 10. A vehicle hydraulic power steering system as claimed in claim 1, further comprising an electric motor 30 for driving said pump 9 in response to the output signal of said control means 20 .

## Description
VEHICLE HYDRAULIC POWER STEERING SYSTEM WITH MEANSFOR CONTROLLING THE OPERATION OF A POWER STEERING PUMP BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 1. Field of the Invention The present invention relates to a power steering system for an automotive vehicle, and more specifically, to a power steering system with means for controlling the operation of a pump provided for supplying a pressurized working fluid to a power steering unit in an energy saving manner. 2. Description of the prior art Generally, in the case of an automotive vehicle equipped with a power steering system, the steering operation is facilitated thanks to a reduced steering effort especially at a low vehicle speed or when the vehicle is at standstill. However, an energy consumption is increased because an engine of the vehicle or an electric motor must be kept on driving a pump in order to continuously supply a pressurized working fluid to the power steering system. Therefore, it is preferable to provide a control means of the operation of the pump only when it is necessary, thus reducing the fuel consumption. Such a sort of power steering system is disclosed for example, in Japanese Patent Application No. 50 160921 or Published Japanese Patent Application No. 54 9774. The power steering system disclosed in the JapanesePatent Application No. 50 160921 features that a pair of detector switches are disposed on either side of a neutral position of a pitman arm at a predetermined angular distance for the purpose of ceasing the pump when steering is at a neutral position, and starting the pump operation when the steering angle exceeds a predetermined value. These switches are actuated by the pitman arm. The system disclosed in the Published JapanesePatent Application No.514 97714 features that a neutral steerting position is detected by a pair of detectors which are in contact with a steering shaft and a cross shaft, respectively The manual steering effort is detected by a torsion of a torsion bar arranged for transmission of the steering effort. A power steeing pump is operated only when the manual steering effort exceeds a predetermined level and the steering angle is greater than a predetermined value. However, in the case of these prior art power steering systems, power assist is not effected at the neutral position. Therefore, a problem is encountered that the steering operation is not stable because the pump ceases its operation when the steering wheel is turned through the neutral position. Another problem encountered is that the fuel consumption is not reduced satisfactorily because the pump is kept operated when the steering wheel is held at an angularly displaced position. Moreover, in the case of the power steering system provided with a torsion bar, the torsion of which represents a driver s effort applied to the steering wheel so that a power steering pump is driven only when the torsion of the torsion bar is present, it is a problem that a precise adjustment of the system is very difficult since the operation of the power steering pump is controlled by making use of a small gap formed between the shafts. In addition, another problem encountered is that the construction of the power steering system becomes complicated since an electric signal for controlling the pump operation is necessarily picked up from the rotating steering shaft, for example, by means of a brush which contacts wlth the latter. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION According to the present invention, a vehicle hydraulic power steering system including a pump for supplying a pressurized working fluid and a power steering unit supplied with the working fluid to assist a driver s steering effort through a steering wheel, comprises means for detecting a steering effort applied to the steering wheel, means for detecting the pressure of the working fluid supplied to the power steering unit, and control means connected t6 the steering effort detecting means and the pressure detecting means for preducing an output signal for actuating the pump when the steering effort is applied to the steering wheel and or the pressure of the working fluid is above a predetermined level. An object of the present invention is therefore to provide a vehicle hydraulic power steering system in which the operation of the pump is controlled in such a manner as to improve an energy saving characteristics without deteriorating the performance of the power steering system. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS The invention is more specifically described in connection with the accompanying drawings. Fig. 1 is a diagram showing a first embodiment according to the present invention Fig. 2 shows an example of a speed sensor used with the power steering system according to the present invention Fig. 3 is a cross sectional view of a power steering unit with a cross sectional view of a pump of the power steering system, in which the lower half shows a section including a center axis of a steering shaft and the upper half shows a section along a line A A shown in the lower half and normal to said axis of the steering shaft Fig. 4 is a partly sectional view of an example of a pressure transducer used with the power steering system according to the present invention Fig. 5 is a circuit diagram of the control means of the operation of the pump according to the present invention Fig. 6 is a diagram showing a modification of the first embodiment of the power steering system according to the present invention Fig. 7 is a circuit diagram of a control means of a second embodiment according to the present invention and Fig. 8 is a truth table showing a relationship between an output logical state of the control means and input logical levels applied thereto. DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS Fig. 1 shows a first embodiment according to the present invention. As shown in Fig. 1, an integral type power steering system 5 comprises a steering gear unit 6 which encloses a steering gear assembly, a control valve and a power piston of any known type, a steering linkage 8 which directs the front wheel 7 of the vehicle and a pump 9 for supplying a pressurized working fluid to the steering gear unit 6. The steering gear unit 6 is connected to a steering wheel 1 via a steering shaft 3 enclosed in a steering column 2 which is supported by an instrument panel 4. A pitman arm 61 provided to the steering gear unit 6 is used for actuating the steering linkage 8. An idler arm 81 is also provided for connecting the steering linkage 8 to a vehicle body. A pressurized working fluid from the pump 9 is circulated to the steering gear unit 6 through a feed pipe 10 and returned from the steering gear unit 6 through a return pipe 11. An engine 12 is used for driving the pump 9, and the engine rotation is transmitted to the pump 9 via a belt drive between pulley 14 mounted on an engine crankshaft and a pump side pulley 13. An electro magnetic clutch 16 is further disposed between the pump 9 and the pulley 13 for controlling the engagement therebetween. In order to control the operation of the electromagnetic clutch 16, there are provided a steering wheel rotational speed sensing means 17, a pressure detecting means 19 and a control means 20 for controlling the electro magnetic clutch 16 in response to the output signals from the speed sensing means 17 and the pressure detecting means 19. The speed sensing means 17 may, preferably, take the form of a light coupled position transducer shown in Fig. 2, and a frequency to voltage converter 18 is provided for converting an output pulse signal of the light coupled position transducer into a voltage signal. This light coupled position transducer is marketed by Ono Sokki under the designation RotaryEncorder RP, and it comprises a shutter disk 171 having a plurality of slits 172 radially disposed at a peripheral portion thereof and concentrically mounted on the steering shaft 3, and a light source and light sensor pair co operating therewith including a light emitting device 173 and a photo sensitive device 174. These light emitting device 173 and photo sensitive device 174 are disposed so that an axis which passes therebetween crosses the peripheral portion of the shutter disk 171.Therefore, the photo sensitive device 174 prouuces a pulse signal having a frequency proportional to the rotational speed of the steering shaft 3. Fig. 3 shows an example of the arrangement of the pressure detecting means 19 and a steering gear unit 6. As shown, a pressure detecting means 19 is provided to a steering gear unit 6 of a rack and pinion type power steering system. This power steering system comprises a control valve 50 disposed within a steering gear unit 6 and a power piston 51 associated with a rack gear 63 of steering linkage. In accordance with the operation of the control valve 50, a pressurized working fluid from a pump 9 is selectively supplied to a left turn power chamber 52 or a right turn power chamber 53, thereby moving the power piston with the force of the pressurized working fluid in order to assist the manual steering operation. As shown in Fig. 14 the pressure detecting means 19 may preferably take the form of a known type pressure transducer such as a pressure sensor marketed by TsukasaSokken under the designation PLC pressure sensor.This pressure sensor incorporates threin a diaphragm 191 and a beam shaped metal thin film gauge 192 mechanically connected thereto, and produces an electric output signal which varies with a change in the resistance of the bridge circuit one of the resistances thereof is formed on the beam shaped thin film metal gauge 192, which occurs with the change in the pressure applied to the diaphragm 191 through a pressure chamber 193 formed therein. Referring again to Fig. 3, this pressure detecting means 19 is disposed on a housing 62 of the steering gear unit 6 and a pressure chanber 193 thereof is communicated with an inlet port 101 of the control valve 50 via a passageway 100 formed within the steering gear housing 62. Referring now to Fig. 5, the control means 20 is explained. The control means 20 comprises a pair of comparators 21 and 22, NOT circuit 23, AND gate 24, and OR gate 25. The comparator 21 receives an output signal from the frequency to voltage converter 18 which converts the output pulse signal of the steering wheel rotational speed sensing means 17 at a first input terminal thereof. The comparator 21 produces a 1 level output signal when the voltage at the first terminal thereof becomes above a predetermined first reference level applied to a second input terminal thereof. In other words, it produces the 1 level output signal when the speed of the rotation of the steering shaft exceeds a predetermined value.Similarly, the comparator 22 receives an output signal of the pressure detecting means 19 at a first input terminal thereof and produces a 1 level output signal when the voltage at the first terminal thereof exceeds a predetermined second reference level applied to a second intput terminal thereof. In other wards, the comparator 22 produces a 1 level output signal when the pressure value detected by the pressure detecting means 19 exceeds a predetermined value. The output of the comparator 21 is connected to one of the inputs of the AND gate 24. The output of the other comparator 22 is connected to the other input of the AND gate 24 through the NOT circuit 23 and also connected to one of inputs of the OR gate 25. The output of the AND gate 24 is connected to the other input of the OR gate 25. The OR gate 25 produces a 1 level output signal when at least one of the intput terminals thereof receives a 1 level input signal.By this 1 level output signal of the OR gate 25, the electro magnetic clutch 16 is engaged to drive the power steering pump 9. The operation of the control means 20 is explained. When at least one of the comparators 21 and 22 produces the 1 level output signal, in other words, when the steering angular speed is above a predetermined reference value or the pressure of the fluid is above a predetermined reference value, the OR gate 25 produces a 1 level output signal, thereby engaging the electromagnetic clutch 16. Thus the pump 9 is driven by the engine 12 and a pressurized working fluid is supplied to the power steering system 5. Conversely, when both of the comparators 21 and 22 produce a 0 level output signal, the OR gate 25 produces a 0 level output signal, thereby disengaging the electro magnetic clutch 16. Then the pump 9 is ceased to operate, and the operation of the power steering system 5 is stopped. A relationship between the output signal level of the control means 20 and respective comparators 21 and 22 are illustrated in Fig. 8. Assuming that the power steering pump is not driven at the start. The pressure detecting means 19 therefore does not provide a high level output signal, and consequently the comparator 22 produces a 0 level output signal. In this state, when the driver of the vehicle turns the steering wheel 1 at a speed of the rotation higher than a predetermined value, the comparator 21 produces the 1 level output signal. As a result, the control means 20 produces a 1 level output signal for engaging the electrol magnetic clutch 16 thereby starting the driving of the power steering pump to supply the pressurized working fluid to the power steering system 5. The operation of the power steering system 5 is explained hereinafter with reference to Fig. 3. When the pump 9 is operated, the pressurized fluid flows through the feed pipe 10 to the inlet port 101 of the control valve 50. However, so far as the driver s effort is not applied to the steering shaft 2, and a valve shaft 54 is positioned at its normal position, the working fluid urged to this inlet port 101 of the control valve 50 bypasses the power chamber 52 or 53 and freely flows through a return port 102 and flows into an outlet port 103 of the control valve 50 and returnes to a pump reservoir 91 through the return pipe 11. Then, when the driver s effort to turn the steering shaft 2 is applied, the valve shaft 54 slightly shifts against a valve body 55 due to a torsion of the torsion bar 56 disposed at a central portion of the control valve 50. The torsion of the torsion bar 56 is due to a steering load and the magnitude thereof is proportional thereto. As a result of the shift of the valve shaft 54, a flow passage to the return port 102 within the valve body 55 is throttled and the pressurized working fluid is directed to one of the power chambers 52 and 53 through one of pipes 104 and 105 respectively connected thereto, thereby moving the power piston 51 to overcome tire friction in a same direction of the driver s steering operation. Working fluid in the other one of the power chambers 52 and 53 is forced out through the control valve 50 and back to the pump reservoir 91. Thus, the power assist proportional to the steering load is effected. It is to be noted that during the above mentioned power assist operation 5, the pressure of the working fluid has a value greater than usual and this value varies in proportion to the steering load. Therefore, whether or not the steering load exists is detected by means of the pressure of the working fluid supplied to the power steering unit 6. In order to precisely discriminate the power assist operation of the power steering system, the reference level applied to the comparator 22 is selected so that the comparator 22 produces only when the steering load is applied. During the normal steering operation where the steering wheel is turned at a speed higher than a predetermined angular speed, and during a turning of the vehicle where the steering load as a sustain force of the steered position is applied, the controller produces the 1 level output signal due to the 1 level output signal of the comparator 22 and or the comparator 22. On the other hand, when the steering wheel 1 is maintained at a straight ahead position or when the vehicle is at stand still and no steering load is applied, the comparators 21 and or 22 no more produce the 1 level output signal, causing the controller 20 to produce the 0 level output signal, thus ceasing the operation of the power steering system 5. The operation of the above power steering system is as follows the operation of the power steering system is initiated by the turning of the steering shaft at a speed higher than a predetermined level, and the operation of the power steering system is ceased when the steering load is disappeared. Fig. 6 is a diagram which shows a modification of the first embodiment according to the present invention This modification features that an electric motor 30 is used to drive the pump 9 in place of the engine 12. Therefore, the output signal of the control means 20 is used to control the on and off operation of the motor 30. In case an electric motor is used to drive the power steering pump, it is necessary to initiate the operation of the power steering system very quickly since the electric motor requires a predetermined rise up time. In this point of view, the power steering system according to the present invention is quite advantageous due to a rapid response characteristic thereof. Fig. 7 shows a second embodiment according to the present invention which is different from the first embodiment in the provision of delay circuit 26 in a control means 200. The delay circuit 26 is provided between the output terminal of the comparator 22 and the input terminal of the NOT circuit 23. The delay circuit 26 comprises a pair of transistors T1 and T2 the emitters threof are grounded and the collectors therof are connected to a power supply respectively through resistors R2 and R4. The output signal of the comparator 22 is applied to a junction between a capacitor C, and a resistor R1 and transmitted to a base of the transsitor T1 via the resistor R1 and a zener diode ZD connected in series with each other.The other terminal of the capacitor C is grounded.The collector of the transistor T1 is connected to a base of the transistor T2 via a resistor R3. The collector of the transistor T2 is connected to the input terminal of the NOT circuit 23 and also to an input terminal of the OR gate 25. By means of the delay circuit 26 the input level of the NOT circuit 23 and the OR gate 25 is maintained at 1 level for a predetermined delay time after the the termination of the output signal of the comparator 22. The delay time of the delay circuit 26 is determined in accordance with the product of the resistance value of the resistor R1 and the capacitance of the capacitor C. In the case of this control means 200, the output level of the OR gate 25 is maintained at the 1 level for a predetermined time after the extinction of the steering load and the operation of the power steering system is maintained during above mentioned time duration,Thus, a hunting of the power steering system operation in other words, repetition of the on and off operation of the pump 9 within a very short period of time is prevented. It will be appreciated from the foregoing that according to the present invention, an operation of a pump for supplying a working fluid of the power steering system is started when a steering wheel is turned at a rotational speed higher than a predetermined value and it is ceased when a pressure of the working fluid is reduced below a predetermined value due to the disappear of the steering load. Thereby reducing a fuel consumption of the vehicle and ensures an improved handling of the power steering system. In addition, the steering wheel rotational speed sensor 17 used in the. above embodiments can be replaced by a torque sensor for sensing a torque value about the steering shaft.