# Bacteriological test set for detecting butyric acid bacteria in milk.

## Abstract
Bacteriological testset for establishing the occurrence of butyric acid bacterial Clostridium in milk, comprising a sealed, by autoclaving sterilized vial containing a sterilized culture medium for anaerobic and microaerophilic cultivat ing, and an against the culture medium inert compound, solidifying at a temperature below about 40 C., having a density lower than the density of the culture medium, into which vial the milk to be tested is introduced under aseptic conditions a method of establishing the occurrence of butyric acid bacteria in milk by adding the milk to be tested via a plastic drain into a sealed, autoclaved vial containing a sterilized culture medium for anaerobic and microaerophilic cultivating, and an against the medium inert compound, solidifying at a temperature below about 40 C., and having a density lower than the density of the culture medium and the use of the testset for establishing the occurrence of butyric acid bacteria in milk by adding the milk to be tested through a plastic drain into a sealed, autoclaved vial containing a sterilized culture medium for anaerobic and microaerophilic cultivating, and an against the medium inert compound, solidifying at a temperature below about 40 C., and having a density lower than the density of the culture medium whereafter the vial is heated and incubated and gas formation in the sample is read off.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Testset for establishing the occurrence of butyric acid bacteria in milk, comprising a sealed, through autoclaving sterilized cylindrical vial containing a sterilized culture medium for anaerobic or microaerophilic cultivating, and a compound inert against the culture medium, solidifying at 0 a temperature below about 40 C., having a density lower than the density of the culture medium, to which vial the milk to be tested is added under aseptic conditions. 2. Testset according to claim 1, characterized in that the sterilized culture medium is Reinforced ClostridialMedium RCM or another similar medium, and that the compound inert against the culture medium is silicone or paraffin 0 having a melting point of 56 58 C. 3. Testset according to claim 1, characterized in that the vial has substantially parallel walls, that the ratio between the cross section diameter and height of the vial is from 1 5 to 1 2.5, preferably 1 3, and that the ratio between the volume of the vial and the volume of the culture medium plus compound inert against the culture medium is from 2 1 to 1.5 1, preferably 2 1. 4. Testset according to claim 1, characterized in that the ratio between the culture medium and the compound inert against the culture medium is from 3 1 to 1 1, preferably 2 1.5. 5. A method of establishing the occurrence of butyric acid bacteria in milk, characterized in that the milk to be tested 0 is added to a sealed, by autoclaving at 121Or for 15 minutes sterilized vial containing a sterilized culture medium and an against the culture medium inert compound, solidifying at at temperature below about 400C., having a density lower than the density of the culture medium. 6. A method according to claim 1, characterized in that the milk is added into the vial, autoclaved at 1210C. for 15 minutes and sealed by a rubber membrane and sheet meta1 by a sterilized disposable plastic drain through the rubber membrane, and that the vial with the drain is placed in a water bath at 800C. for 10 minutes and then incubated at 310C. for 4 to 7 days. 7. A method according to claim 5, characterized in that the ratio between culture medium and milk is from 4 1 to 2 1, preferably about 2 1. 8. A method according to claim 5, characterized in that after the incubation the gas formation of the sample developed by butyric acid bacteria is read off. 9. The use of a testset to establish the occurrence of butyric acid bacteria in milk, characterized in that the milk to be tested is added into a sealed, by autoclaving sterilized vial containing a sterilized culture medium for anaerobic or microaerophilic cultivating, and an against the culture medium inert compound solidifying at a temperature below about 400C., having a lower density than the culture medium, whereafter the vial is heated and incubated and the optional gas formation of the sample is read off. 10. The use of a testset according to claim 9, characterized in that to the vial, sealed by a rubber membrane and sheet netal, containing a sterilized culture medium for anaerobic and microaerophilic cultivating, such as Reinforced ClostridialMedium, and a compound inert against the culture medium, which compound solidifies at a temperature below about 400C., has a lower density than the culture medium, such as silicone or preferably paraffin, and a melting point of 56 SCOC, the ratio between the volume of the vial and the culture medium plus the compound inert against the medium compound being from 2 1 to 1.5 1,preferably 2 1, and the ratio between the culture medium and the inert compound being from 3 1 to 1 1, preferably 2 1.5, milk is added in an amount corresponding to the ratio 1 4 to 1 2, preferably about 1 2, calculated on the amount culture medium as used, through a disposable plastic drain, the vial being heated at 800C. for 0 10 minutes, incubated at 31 C. for 4 to 7 days and the gas formation in the sample developed by butyric acid bacteria read off.

## Description
Bacteriological testset for establishing butyric acid bacteria in milk.The invention relates to a bacteriological testset for establishing butyric acid bacteria Clostridium in milk, comprising a sealed, through autoclaving sterilized vial containing a sterilized culture medium for anaerobic or microaerophilic cultivating, and an against the culture medium inert compound, solidifying at a temperature below about 4OOC and having a density lower than the density of the culture medium, to which vial the milk to be tested is added under aseptic conditions a method for establishing butyric acid bacteria in milk by adding the milk to be tested through a plastic drain into a sealed, autoclaved vial containing a sterilized culture medium for anaerobic and microaerophilic cultivating, and an against the culture medium inert compound 0 solidifying at a temperature below about 40 C. and having a density lower than that of the culture medium and the use of the testset for establishing butyric acid bacteria in milk by adding the milk to be tested through a plastic drain into an autoclaved vial containing a sterilized culture medium for anaerobic or microaerophilic cultivating, and an against the culture medium inert compound solidifying at a temperature below about 400C. and having a lower density than that of the culture medium, whereupon the vial is heated and incubated and gas formation in the sample is read off.Ensilage of inferior grade is generating butyric acid bacteria which with the fodder is transmitted to the cattle. Said butyric acid bacteria, consitutinq anaerobic, spore forming bacteria Clostridium , are transmitted to the milk. The spores of butyric acid bacteria survive pasteurization and form at the manufacturing of cheese except lactic acid also butyric acid and gas hydrogen and carbon dioxide the cheese is going fermented. Therefore it is necessary to continuously check the occurrence of butyric acid bacteria in milk. Hitherto this has generally been made by a test known as Winzirl test in the following way 1. Into a sterilized test tube containing about 1 g. of paraffin 1 ml. of a glucose lactic acid mixture and 10 ml. of the milk sample to be tested or an appropriate dilution thereof are added.2. The test tube with the milk sample is maintained for about ten minutes in a water bath at 800C., whereby vegetative bacteria cells are killed and the air is expelled from the sample. The paraffin melts and settles on the milk surface and prevents the air to pass down into the milk. 0 3. The sample is incubated for 7 to 10 days at 30 C. 4. The occurrence of butyric acid bacteria is shown by the development of gas in the sample the paraffin plug is lifted. The most likely number of butyric acid bacteria spores of the milk sample is then established with the aid of a special table.Said method is expensive, work demanding and even directly cumbersome when a large number of samples are to be taken.Therefore, a demand has existed for a simplified test system, easy to be handled to establish the presence of butyric acid bacteria in milk.The demands cn the new system are that it should be easy to handle, the culture medium has to be sterilized and the sterility maintained during prolonged periods of time, preferably several months and even years. It must be possible to shelve the culture medium without essential chemical changes during a long period of time. The test system must be easy to transport and shelve also after the inoculation, and a clear reaction gas formation must also develop with very low inoculates 10 spores per ml. sample . The product must also be cheap compared to the present handling.Said problems have been solved with the test system according to this invention, comprising a vial, sterilized by autoclaving at 1210C. for 15 minutes, containing a sterilized culture medium for anaerobic or microaerophilic cultivating, such asReinforced Clostridial Medium RCM or another equivalent culture medium, and one against the culture medium inert 0 compound, solidifying at a temperature below about 40 C. having a lower density than the culture medium, such as silicone or preferably paraffin with a melting point of 56 580C. and sealed with a rubber membrane and sheet metal.The compound such as silicone or paraffin, inert against the culture medium, should be used in an amount that allows the gas to expand at the optional gas development occurring when butyric acid bacteria are present at the test by pushing the silicone or paraffin plug upwards by the gas pressure.To facilitate the displacement of the paraffin or silicone plug at the gas formation the vial should preferably be cylindrical and the relation between the cross section diameter and the height of the vial should be 1 5 to 1 2.5, preferably 1 3.To further facilitate the handling and transport of the vial, said vials can be packed standing upright in a durable wrapping material of standard type.The relation between the volume of the vial and the culture medium should be 4 1 to 3 1, preferably 4 1, and between the culture medium and paraffin or silicone 3 1 to 1 1, preferably 2 1.5.The term cylindrical refers to an area generated by parallel displacement of a straight line along a closed curve.The invention also relates to a method for establishing butyric acid bacteria in milk, according to which method the milk to be tested through a disposable plastic drain is added to the sealed vial sterilized by autoclaving at 121 0C. for 15 minutes through the rubber membrane, whereafter the vial with the drain is placed into a water bath at 80 C. for 10 minutes and then incubated at 310C. for 4 to 7 days, and the gas formation of the sample is subsequently read off.Finally the invention relates to the use of the testset as hereinbefore defined to establish butyric acid bacteric in milk. The culture media and materials to be used are preferably Reinforced Clostridial Medium RCM CM 149, OXIDEParaffin, m.p. 56 to 580C. No. 1.3643, KEBOOxford syringePlastic drain disposable 1 ml. OXFORD LABORATORIESVial,4 to 10 ml., sheet metal, rubber membraneExample. 6.5 ml. vials were filled with 1.1 2 ml. melted paraffin. When solidified, the vials were further filled with 2 ml. RCM.Thereafter the vials were sealed with sheet metal and rubber membrane and autoclaved for 15 minutes at 1210C. The autoclaved vials were packed standing upright in a durable wrapping material of standard type and transported to the user.The paraffin and RCM filling can be performed in one or two steps.To establish the presence of butyric acid bacteria spores in the sealed and autoclaved vials containing culture medium and paraffin, about 1 ml. milk samples are added through the rubber membrane by a sterilized disposable plastic drain, whereafter the vials with drains were placed in a water bath at 80 C. for 10 minutes and finally transferred to the incubator, where incubation is performed at 310C. for 4 to 7 days.The culture medium was shoam to be durable up to six months without deterioration of the function in any respect. It is true that a certain turbidity can appear after some time in the culture medium, but this disappears at heating. The wrapping as such as well as the sealing stand transport as well as storage. The drain can be removed when reaction is positive gas formation , and the culture can be transferred to special laboratories for indentification purposes.To control the occurrence of butyric acid bacteria spores in milk, 1 ml. milk is added by Oxford syringe and disposable plastic drain. The drain is left in the rubber membrane. The 0 vial is heated for 10 minutes at 80 C. in a water bath to kill vegetative cells. The paraffin is melted. The sample is incubated for 4 to 7 days at 310C. The paraffin is melted again and settles on the mixture of culture medium and milk sample.After incubation the sample is read as to gas formation. The paraffin plug is pushed upwards in the vial and indicates in that way the occurrence of butyric acid bacteria in the sample in the case gas formation is occurring. A sample without butyric acid bacteria does not show any gas formation.The invention is further elucidated with reference to the enclosed drawing whereinFig. 1 shows a vial a containing a culture medium b and paraffin c and sealed by a rubber membrane d and sheet metal e . The vial is autoclaved for 15 minutes 0 at 121 C. The vial is packed in standard wrapping and ready for supply. Fig. 2 shows the vial 1 containing the milk sample g added through a syringe and plastic drain f through the rubber membrane. The drain is left in the rubber membrane. 0Fig. 3 shows the vial heated for 10 minutes at 80 C. in a water bath to kill vegetative cells. The paraffin is melted.Fig. 4 shows the vial after incubation for 4 to 7 days at 0 31 C. The paraffin has solified again and settled on top of the mixture of culture medium and sample.Fig. 5 shows a vial containing a sample without butyric acid bacteria, which does not give any gas formation.Fig. 6 shows gas formation i after incubation. The paraffin plug is pushed upwards in the vial, indicating the occurrence of butyric acid bacteria in the original sample.