# Process for preparing fluoropyridine compounds.

## Abstract
A process for preparing a fluoropyridine compound by reacting a chlorinated pyridine compound with a molar excess of an alkali metal fluoride, especially potassium fluoride, in the presence of a catalytic amount of a catalyst selected from halides of organometals and halides of metals of the iron, nickel and copper groups, and which is pref erably FeCl₃, whereby at least one chlorine atom of the chlorinated pyridine compound is replaced by a fluorine atom. Of special interest is the preparation of 3,5 dichloro 2,4,6 trichloropyridine from pentachloropyridine. The compounds prepared by such a process are useful for the preparation of agriculturally useful fluoropyridines.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Process for preparing a fluoropyridine compound which comprises reacting a chlorinated pyridine compound with a molar excess of an alkali metal fluoride characterized in that the reaction is carried out in the presence of a catalytic amount of a halide of an organometal or a halide of metals of the iron, nickel and copper groups, whereby at least one chlorine of the chlorinated pyridine compound is replaced by fluorine. 2. Process of Claim 1 characterized in that the halide is a bromide or a chloride. 3. Process of Claim 1 characterized in that the organometal is aluminum or antimony. 4. Process of Claim 2 characterized in that the catalyst is SbCl3, Algol3, Fecal3 or ZnCl2. 5. Process of any on of Claims 1 to 4 characterized in that the amount of alkali metal fluoride used is 10 to 50 in excess of the theoretical amount of fluorine required to produce the desired fluoropyridine. 6. Process of any one of Claims 1 to 5 characterized in that the catalyst is employed in an amount of from 1 to 3 percent by weight based on the amount of alkali metal fluoride. 7. Process of any one of Claims 1 to 6 characterized in that the alkali metal fluoride employed is KF. 8. Process of any one of Claims 1 to 7 characterized in that the reaction is carried out in the absence of a solvent. 9. Process of any one of Claims 1 to 8 characterized in that the reaction is carried out at a temperature within the range of from 2500 to 3500C. 10. Process of any one of Claims 1 to 9 characterized in that the chlorinated pyridine compound reactant is pentachloropyridine or 2,3,5,6 tetrachloropyridine.

## Description
PROCESS FOR PREPARING FLUOROPYRIDINE COMPODS This invention concerns an improvement in the reaction of a chlorinated pyridine compound with an alkali metal fluoride. Products of the reaction are useful as intermediates for the preparation of herbicides or pesticides. It is known to react chloropyridines with potassium fluoride in a polar aprotic solvent in the presence of a small amount of water to effect replacement of chlorine by fluorine. Reaction of pentachloropyridine with anhydrous KF in a 1 5.9 mole ratio in sulpholane and water at 2150C has given 91 yield of 3,5 dichlorotrifluoropyridine, 6 yield of 3 chlorotetrafluoropyridine, and 3 yield of 3,4,5,6 tetrachlorofluoropyridine British Patent SpecificationNo. 1,256,082 . Reaction of pentachloropyridine withKF in a 1 11 mole ratio at 4000C for 18 hours in the absence of a solvent has given 84 yield of 3,5 dichloro 2,4,6 trifluoropyridine J. Chem. So. 1964, 3573 .Reaction of pentachloropyridine with KF in a 1 9.5 mole ratio at 400or for 5 hours in the absence of solvent has given 45 yield of 3,5 dichlorotrifluoropyridine and 19 yield of 3 chlorotetrafluoropyridine J. Chem. Soc. 1965, 594 . It has now been found that certain compounds are effective catalysts for the reaction of a chlorinated pyridine compound with an alkali metal fluoride and that carrying out the reaction in the presence of a small amount of one or more of these compounds permits use of less alkali metal fluoride and lower temperatures than heretofore for preparing a given desired product in good yield. Accordingly, the present invention provides a process for preparing a fluoropyridine compound, which process comprises reacting a chlorinated pyridine compound with a molar excess of an alkali metal fluoride in the presence of a catalytic amount of a catalyst selected from halides of organometals and halides of metals of the iron, nickel and copper groups, whereby at least one chlorine of the chlorinated pyridine compound is replaced by fluorine.The desired product may be isolated by distillation. The starting material may be any pyridine compound containing at least one chlorine substituent on the ring. The useful starting materials include, for example, the mono , di , tri , tetra and pentachloropyridines, depending on the particular product or products desired. When the starting material is a polychloropyridine, the member of chlorine atoms replaced by fluorine is believed to be dependent on the temperature and time of reaction employed, the higher temperatures and longer times of reaction favoring more replacement by fluorine. The process of the invention is of special interest for the preparation of 3,5 dichloro 2,4,6 trichloropyridine from pentachloropyridine the 3, 5 dichloro 2, 6 di fluoropyridine from 2,3,5,6 tetrachloropyridine and 2,6 difluoropyridine from 2, 6 dichloropyridine. The alkali metal fluoride used in the process of the present invention may be cesium, potassium or sodium fluoride. The use of potassium fluoride is preferred. As indicated above, it is essential to use a molar excess of the alkali metal fluoride. Preferably, the amount of alkali metal fluoride employed is 10 to 100 , more preferably 10 to 50 , in excess of the theoretical amount of fluorine required to produce the desired fluoropyridine. An essential feature of the present process is the utilization of a catalyst selected from those listed above, such asl for example, a bromide or chloride of aluminium, antimony, or iron. Preferred catalysts include SbC13, AlCl3, ZnCl2 and FeCl3, with the latter being most preferred. In order to obtain the benefits of the present invention, it is also essential that the catalyst be employed in an amount sufficient to provide a catalytic effect.Having regard to economy and ease of carrying out the reaction, the catalyst is generally employed in an amount of from 0.5 to 10, preferably from 1 to 5, more preferably from 1 to 3, percent by weight based on the amount of the alkali metal fluoride. For economic reasons, it is generally preferred to carry out the reaction of the process of this invention without the use of a solvent, although the reaction can be run in the presence of a solvent or reaction medium, such as suipholane. Although the reaction can be carried out successfully in glass equipment, glass is susceptible to attack by alkali metal fluorides, and it may be desirable to employ a greater amount of the alkali metal fluoride than the preferred amounts indicated above. In view of this, it is preferred to carry out the reaction in equipment in which the parts contacted by the reactants are constructed of material that is inert to alkali metal fluorides, such as stainless steel, nickel or Hastelloy C. The conditions under which the reaction is carried out are such that the reactants are in their liquid or gaseous states. Below 1500C there is a tendency for the reactants to be in their solid states, and accordingly it is preferred to carry out the reaction at a temperature within the range of from 1500 to 4000C, more preferably at a temperature within the range of from 2500 to 3500C and most preferably within the range of 2500 to 3000C. The reaction is preferably carried out in sealed vessels necessitating elevated pressures which are dependent on the temperatures used and the number of moles of starting material. Typically at 3000C the pressure is in the range of from 50 to 200 psig 4.4 14.6 atm . A particularly preferred process of the present invention comprises reacting in a sealed inert vessel pentachloropyridine with from 3.3 to 4.5 moles of potassium fluoride per mole of the pentachioropyridine in the presence of from 1 to 3 percent by weight of FeCl3 based on the amount of potassium fluoride and in the absence of a solvent at a temperature within the range of from 2500 to 3500C, and recovering 3, 5 dichloro 2,4, 6 trifluoro pyridine as the principal product. The fluoropyridine compounds prepared according to the present invention are particularly useful as intermediates for the preparation of agriculturally useful fluoropyridine compounds. Examples of such agriculturally useful fluoropyridine compounds which can be prepared employing the fluoropyridine compounds prepared as taught herein include compounds as follows a Compounds of general formula EMI5.1 wherein each X independently represents chloro, bromo or fluoro R represents CONR3R4 where R3 and R4 independently each represents hydrogen or alkyl containing from .1 to 8 carbon atoms , COOH or a salt thereof, or COOR5 where R5 represents alkyl containing 6 from 1 to 12 carbon atoms or CH2 nOR6 where n represents an integer of from 2 to 4 and R6 represents lower alkyl or phenol and M represents hydrogen or lower alkyl. Such compounds, agriculturally useful compositions containing them, and their uses are described and claimed in British Patent SpecificationNo. 1,418,979. b A compound of formula EMI6.1 and c A compound of formula EMI6.2 Any agriculturally useful fluoropyridine, including those specified in a to c above, which has been prepared directly or indirectly from a fluoropyridine prepared by a process according to the present invention is within the scope of the present invention.So is an agriculturally useful composition comprising any such agriculturally useful fluoropyridine. Those compounds specified in a and b above are herbicidally active and the compound specified in c above is a nematocide. The agriculturally useful fluoropyridines can be prepared from the fluoropyridines prepared by the process of the present invention by any appropriate route. A typical example of one such route is as follows EMI7.1 where R1is as defined above. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that a wide range of agriculturally useful fluoropyridines can be prepared from a fluoropyridine which has been prepared by the process according to the present invention. The following Examples further illustrate the present invention. Example 1 A mixture of 100 g potassium fluoride and 1 g ferric chloride was prepared by grinding together the two components. In like manner, 2 g 0.008 mole of pentachloropyridine were mixed with 1.87 g 0.032 mole KF of the KF FeCl3 mixture. The mixing operations were carried out in a dry nitrogen atmosphere. The mixture of the reactants was placed in a stainless steel cylinder and the cylinder sealed. Then the cylinder and contents were heated in a furnace at 3000C for 16 hours. After cooling, the contents were extracted with chloroform and filtered.Analysis by gas chromatography indicated an 83 percent yield of 3, 5 dichloro 2 ,4, 6 trifluoropyridine and a 4 percent yield of 3 chloro 2,4,5,6 tetrafluoropyridine.Example 2 The method of this Example was similar to that of Example 1 except as follows. The reaction mixture contained 3.74 g 0.64 mole KF of the KF FeCl3 mixture KF pentachloropyridine molar ratio 8 1 . The reaction vessell was glass1 and the contents were heated at 3400C for 30 hours.There was obtained a 31 percent yield of 2,3,4,5 tetrachloro 6 fluoropyridine, a 57 percent yield of 2,3,5 trichloro 4,6 difluoropyridine, and an 8 percent yield of 3,5 dichloro 2,4,6 trifluoropyridine.Example 3 The method for this Example was similar toExample 1 except as follows. The reaction mixture contained 2 g 0.008 mole pentachloropyridine and 1.62 g 0.028 mole KF of the KF FeC13 mixture, and the reactants were heated at 2500C. There was obtained 2 percent yield of 2,3,4,5 tetrachloro 6 fluoropyridine, 24 percent yield of 2,3,5 trichloro 4,6 difluoropyridine and 61 percent yield of 3,5 dichloro 2 , 4, 6 trifluoropyridine. Example 4 Comparative Example 3 was repeated except that no catalyst FeCl3 was used. There was obtained 5 percent unreacted pentachloropyridine, 38 percent yield of 2,3,4,5 tetrachloro 6 fluoropyridine, 33 percent yield of 2,3,5 trichloro 4,6 difluoropyridine and 17 percent yield of 3,5 dichloro 2,4,6 trifluoropyridine. Example 5 The method for this Example was similar toExample 1 except as follows. The reaction mixture contained 2 g 0.0092 mole 2,3,5,6 tetrachloropyridine and 1.62 g 0.0276 mole KF of the KF FeCl3 mixture. There was obtained 70 percent yield of 3,5 dichloro 2,6 difluoropyridine. Example 6 Comparative Example 5 was repeated except that no catalyst FeCl3 was used. There was obtained 1 percent of unreacted 2,3,5,6 tetrachloropyridine, 22 percent yield of 2,3,5 trichloro 6 fluoropyridine and 61 percent yield of 3,5 dichloro 2,6 diEluoropyridine.