# Process for surface treatment of stainless steel sheet.

## Abstract
A process for surface treatment of stainless steel sheets for excellent corrosion resistance and gloss is pro vided according to which a BA film or a passive film is formed on the stainless steel sheet the sheet is dipped in a treatment solution containing 0.1 to 70 by weight of phosphoric acid, 0.1 to 10.0 by weight of a molybdate, chromic acid or a mixture thereof, and 0.1 to 2.0 by weight of magnesium oxide, sodium silicate or a mixture thereof and cathodic treatment is carried out under the conditions of 1 to 600 A sec dm² integrated electric cur rent density and 0 to 90 C solution temperature.

## Claims
What we claim is I. A process for surface treatment of a stainless steel sheet characterized by dipping a stainless steel sheet having a BA film or a passive film in a treatment solution and carrying out cathodic treatment under conditions of 1 to 600 A.sec dm2 integrated current density and 0 to 900C solution temperature, said treatment solution containing 0.1 to 70.0 by weight of phosphoric acid, 0.1 to 10.0 by weight of a member selected from the group consisting of a molybdate, chromic acid, and mixtures thereof, and, optionally, 0.1 to 2 by weight of a member selected from the group consisting of magnesium oxide, sodium silicate, and mixtures thereof. 2. A process according to claim 1, wherein the treatment solution contains 0.1 to 50.0 by weight of phosphoric acid, 0.1 to 10.0 by weight of chromic acid, and 0.1 to 2.0 by weight of a member selected from the group consisting of magnesium oxide, sodium silicate, and mixtures thereof. 3 A process according to claim 2, wherein the treatment solution contains 5 to 20 by weight of phosphoric acid, 0.5 to 1.8 by weight of chromic acid, and 0.5 to 1.5 by weight of a member selected from the group consisting of magnesium oxide, sodium silicate, and mixtures thereof. 4. A process according to claim 1, wherein the treatment solution contains 0.1 to 50.08 by weight of phosphoric acid and 0.1 to 10.08 by weight of the molybdate. 5. A process according to claim d, wherein the treatment solution contains 5 to 50 by weight of phosphoric acid and 1 to 3 by weight of the molybdate. 6. A process according to claim 1, characterized by performing said cathodic treatment in two steps, a first step comprising dipping a stainless steel sheet having a BA film or a passive film in a treatment solution containing 0.1 to 50.0 by weight of phosphoric acid, 0.1 to 10.0 by weight of chromic acid, and 0.1 to 2.0 by weight of a member selected from the group consisting of magnesium oxide, sodium silicate and mixtures thereof and carrying out cathodic treatment under the conditions of 1 to 600 A.sec dm2 integrated current density and 0 to 900C solution temperature, and a second step comprising dipping the stainless steel sheet treated in the first step in a treatment solution containing 0.1 to 70 by weight of phosphoric acid and 0.1 to 10.0 by weight of the molybdate and carrying out cathodic treatment under the conditions of 1 to 600 A.sec dm2 integrated current density and 10 to 90 C solution temperature. 7. A process according to claim 6, wherein the treatment solution in the first step contains 5 to 20 by weight of phosphoric acid, 0.5 to 1.8 by weight of chromic acid, and 0.5 to 1.5 by weight of a member selected from the group consisting of magnesium oxide, sodium silicate and mixtures thereof, and the treatment solution in the second step contains 5 to 50 by weight of phosphoric acid and 1 to 3 of the molybdate. 8. A process according to claim 1, characterized by performing said cathodic treatment in two steps, a first step comprising dipping a stainless steel sheet having a BA film or a passive film in a treatment solution containing 0.1 to 70 by weight of phosphoric acid and 0.1 to 10.0 by weight of the molybdate and carrying out cathodic treatment under the conditions of 1 to 600 A sec am2 integrated current density and 10 to 900C solution temperature, and a second step comprising dipping the stainless steel sheet treated in the first step in a treatment solution containing 0.1 to 50.0 by weight of phosphoric acid, 0.1 to 10.0 by weight of chromic acid, and 0.1 to 2.0 by weight of a member selected from the group consisting of magnesium oxide, sodium silicate and mixtures thereof and carrying out cathodic treatment under the conditions of 1 to 600 A.sec dm2 integrated current density and 0 to 90 C solution temperature. 9. A process according to claim 8, wherein the treatment solution in the first step contains 5 to 50 by weight of phosphoric acid and 1 to 3 by weight of the molybdate, and the treatment solution in the second step contains 5 to 20 by weight of phosphoric acid, 0.5 to 1.8 by weight of chromic acid, and 0.5 to 1.5 by weight of a member selected from the group consisting of magnesium oxide, sodium silicate and mixtures thereof. 10. A process according to claim 1, wherein the molybdate is supplied by using metal molybdenum as an anode. 11. A process according to claim 4, wherein the molybdate is supplied by using mainly metal molybdenum as an anode. 12. A process according to any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein the integrated current density is 60 to 360 A sec dm2 and the solution temperature is 40 70 C. 13. A process according to any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein the stainless steel sheet conforms to JISSUS 430, JIS SUS 420 or JIS SUS 434.

## Description
Process for surface treatment of stainless steel sheet The present invention relates to a process for surface treatment of a stainless steel sheet including a stainless steel strip according to which electrochemical treatment is performed using the stainless steel sheet as a cathode for forming a noncorroding film on the surface thereof. Chrome plating is known as a process for surface treatment of this type. Chrome plating is a kind of electroplating according to which a surface film of pure chrome is formed on the surface of the stainless steel sheet by electrodeposition oi metal chrome. This surface film is advantageous in that it is noncorroding and has excellent gloss. This film is utilized for treating stainless steel sheets which are inexpensive but are not sufficiently noncorroding, such as sheets according to JIS SUS430. However, this chrome plating adopts as a treatment solution a mixture of sulfuric acid and chromic acid of high concentration. For this reason, the waste solution from the treatment contains a large amount of chromic acid and thus requires costly treatment for prevention of pollution. Chrome plating further requires a large current of over several amperes per dm2 and a long treatment time. This plating process thus results in great power consumption e.g., integrated current density 6,000 A.sec dm2 and higher treatment cost. In view of these problems, it has been proposed, as an alternative to chrome plating, to perform an electrochemical treatment using a mixture of chromic acid, dichromic acid and phosphoric acid as a treatment solution, and a stainless steel sheet as a cathode for forming a noncorroding film on the surface of the stainless steel sheet. This process is advantageous in that the concentration of residual chromic acid in the solution is low, and the treatment of the waste solution is easy.Furthermore, a corrosion resistance comparable to that obtained with chromic plating may be obtained with a smaller current density and a shorter conduction time. However, this process has drawbacks in that resistance to sulfurous acid which is essential in stainless steel sheets for automobiles is poor, and surface gloss is poor, thus reducing the product value as compared with chrome plated stainless steel sheets. The present invention has been made in view of this and has for its object to provide a process for surface treatment of a stainless steel sheet wherein the treatment solution is improved so that gloss and resistance to sulfurous acid are improved. According to a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided a process for surface treatment of a stainless steel sheet characterized by dipping a stainless steel sheet having a BA bright annealing film or a passive film in a treatment solution and carrying out cathodic treatment under conditions of 1 to 600 A sec dm2 integrated current density and 10 to 900C solution temperature, said treatment solution containing 0.1 to 50.0 by weight of phosphoric acid, 0.1 to 10.0 by weight of chromic acid, and 0.1 to 2 by weight of a member selected from the group consisting of magnesium oxide, sodium silicate, and mixtures thereof. According to a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided a process for surface treatment of a stainless steel sheet characterized by dipping a stainless steel sheet having a BA film or a passive film in a treatment solution containing 0.1 to 70 by weight of phosphoric acid and 0.1 to 10.0 by weight of a molybdate, and carrying out cathodic treatment under the conditions of 1 to 60O A sec dm integrated current density and 10 to OOC solution temperature. According to a third aspect of the present invention, there is provided a process for surface treatment of a stainless steel sheet characterized by, before o after dipping a stainless steel having a BA film or a passive film in a first treatment solution containing 0.1 to 50.0 by weight of phosphoric acid, 0.1 to 10.0 by weight of chromic acid, and 0.1 to 2.0 by weight of a member selected from the group consisting of magnesium oxide, sodium silicate and mixtures thereof and carrying out cathodic treatment under the conditions of 1 to 600 A.sec dm2 integrated current density and 0 to 90 C solution temperature, dipping the stainless sheet in a second treatment solution containing 0.1 to 70 by weight of phosphoric acid and 0.1 to 10 by weight of a molybdate and carrying out cathodic treatment under the conditions of 1 to 600 A.sec dm2 integrated current density and 10 to 90 C solution temperature. According to a fourth aspect to the present invention, there is provided a process for surface treatment of a stainless steel sheet characterized by dipping a stainless steel sheet having a BA film or a passive film in a treatment solution containing 0.1 to 50.08 by weight of phosphoric acid, 0.1 to 10.0 by weight of chromic acid, 0.1 to 2.0 by weight of a member selected from the group consisting of magnesium oxide, sodium silicate and mixtures thereof, and 0.1 to 10.0 by weight of a molybdate, and carrying out cathodic treatment under the conditions of 1 to 600 A.sec dm2 integrated current density and 10 to 900C solution temperature. According tb a fifth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a process for surface treatment of a stainless steel sheet characterized by dipping a stainless steel sheet having a BA film or a passive film in a 0.1 to 70 by weight aqueous solution of phosphoric acid, and carrying out cathodic treatment under the conditions of 1 to 600 A.sec dm2 integrated current density and 10 to 900C solution temperature, utilizing the stainless steel as a cathode and metal molybdenum as an anode. Before practicing the present invention, a BA bright annealing film or a passive film must be formed on the surface of the stainless steel sheet to be treated The BA film or the passive film is a film which renders the surface of the stainless steel sheet inactive. The BA film may be obtained by bright heattreatment according to which the sheet is heated in a vacuum, an inert gas, a reducing gas, or a hot salt.The passive film may be obtained by leaving to the sheet in air or dipping the stainless steel sheet in a 20 by volume aqueous solution of nitric acid at room temperature for 30 minutes or at 650C for 10 minutes. The reason why the BA film or the passive film should be formed before the treatment according to the present invention is that if such a film is not formed in advance, corrosion resistance may not be improved even if cathodic treatment is conducted according to this invention. This has been confirmed by experiments to be described later Example 1 . As has been described above, according to the first aspect of the present invention, a stainless steel sheet having a BA film or a passive film formed thereon undergoes cathodic treatment in a treatment solution containing phosphoric acid, chromic acid, magnesium oxide and or sodium silicate. Phosphoric acid. and chromic acid contained in this treatment solution are necessary components for forming a noncorroding film on the surface of the stainless steel sheet. The lower limit of the amount of phosphoric acid to be used has been set at 0.1 by weight since with smaller amounts of phosphoric acid, satisfactory corrosion resistance may not be obtained. The upper limit of phosphoric acid to be used has also been set to 50 by weight, since larger amount of phosphoric acid result in loss of gloss at the surface of the stainless steel sheet and a greater waste of solution.The preferable range of the amount of phosphoric acid to be used herein is 5 to 20 by weight. The range for the amount of chromic acid has also been set between 0.1 and 10.0 by weight for the same reason as in the case of phosphoric acid. When the amount of chromic acid is not in this range, satisfactory corrosion resistance may not be obtained.When the amount of chromic is out of this range, surface gloss is lost and the amount of the waste solution will be great. The preferable range of the amount of chromic acid is 0.5 to 1.8 by weight. Magnesium oxide and sodium silicate are components for preventing loss of gloss at the surface of the stainless steel sheet. The range of the amount of magnesium oxide has been limited since satisfactory gloss may not be obtained below 0.1 or above 2.0 by weight. The preferable range of the amount of magnesium oxide is 0.5 to 1.5 by weight. The amount of sodium silicate has been limited between 0.1 and 2 by weight. When this amount is less than 0.1 by weight, satisfactory gloss may not be obtained. When the amount of sodium silicate exceeds 2 by weight, it precipitates in the form of gel from the solution, so that it may not exhibit the advantageous effects of sodium silicate. The preferable range of sodium silicate is 0.1 to 0.8 by weight. The amounts of magnesium oxide or sodium silicate have been limited to within the range of 0.1 to 2 by weight. When the amount of either of these is below 0.1 by weight, the satisfactory effects provided by addition of these members may not be obtained. When the amount exceeds 2 by weight, the surface gloss may not be obtained. The preferable range of the amount of magnesium oxide or sodium silicate is 1.0 to 1.8 by weight. The treating conditions for cathodic treatment in such a treatment solution are 1 to 600 A.sec dm2 integrated current density and 0 to 900C solution temperature. The integrated current density has been limited to the range of 1 to 600 A.sec dm2 since a lower integrated current density than 1 A.sec dm2 results in insufficient corrosion resistance and a higher integrated current density than 600 A.sec dm2 results in unsatisfactory surface gloss and higher cost.The preferable range of integrated current density is 60 to 360 A.sec dm2. The solution temperature has been limited to the range of 0 to 900C since the solution temperature below OOC results in a longer treating time and difficulty in maintaining the temperature of the treatment solution a higher solution temperature than 900C results in degradation in quality of the treatment solution. The preferable range of solution temperature is 50 to 70 C. According to the second aspect of the present invention, a stainless steel sheet with a BA film or a passive film formed thereon undergoes cathodic treatment or dipping treatment in a treatment solution containing phosphoric acid and molybdate. The phosphoric acid contained in this treatment solution is a necessary component for forming a noncorroding film on the surface of the stainless steel sheet as in the case of the first aspect of the present invention. The lower limit of the amount of phosphoric acid has been set to 0.18 by weight since a smaller amount of phosphoric acid results in unsatisfactory corrosion resistance. The upper limit of phosphoric acid has been set to 70 by weight since larger amount results in loss of surface gloss at the surface of the stainless steel sheet and a greater solution loss.The preferable range of the amount of phosphoric acid is 5 to 50 by weight. The molybdate is effective in improving resistance to sulfurous acid by forming the corrosion resistant film on the surface of the stainless steel sheet and in maintaining excellent gloss. The molybdate may be included in the form of ammonium molybdate, sodium molybdate and so on. The amount of the molybdate to be used herein has been set as described above since a smaller amount of the molybdate does not provide satisfactory effects and a larger amount results in loss of surface gloss. The preferable range of the amount of the molybdate is 1 to 3 by weight. The treating conditions for this treatment are the same as those as have been described with reference to the first aspect of the present invention except that the lower limit of the solution temperature may be lowered to OOC in this case. The third aspect of the present invention provides three options a a process for carrying out cathodic treatment of a stainless steel sheet having BA film or passive film formed thereon under predetermined conditions with a solution mixture first treatment solution containing phosphoric acid, chromic acid, and magnesium oxide and or sodium silicate and thereafter carrying out again cathodic treatment under predetermined conditions with a solution mixture second treatment solution containing phosphoric acid and a molybdate b a process of carrying out cathodic treatment of a stainless steel sheet having a BA film or a passive film formed thereon under predetermined conditions with a solution mixture second treatment solution containing phosphoric acid and a molybdate and thereafter carrying out again cathodic treatment under predetermined conditions with a solution mixture first treatment solution containing phosphoric acid, chromic acid, and magnesium oxide and or sodium silicate and c a process for carrying out cathodic treatment in a solution mixture solution mixture of the first and second treatment solutions containing phosphoric acid, chromic acid, the molybdate, and magnesium oxide and or sodium silicate. Among these three options, the best effects are obtained with the first method a . The mixing ratio of the respective components in the first treatment solution is the same as that described before with reference to the first aspect of the present invention. Similarly, the mixing ratio of the respective components of the second treatment solution is the same as that described with reference to the second aspect of the present invention. The cathodic treatment conditions in the first treatment solution are I to 600 A.sec dm2 in integrated current density, and 0 to 9O0C in solution temperature, preferably 10 to 300C. The integrated current density has been limited to this range for the reasons as described below. When the integrated current density is below 1 A.sec dm2, the gloss may be maintained but the resistance to corrosion, such as resistance to sulfurous acid, salt damage table 1 and so on, is not satisfactory. When the integrated current density exceeds 600 A sec dm2, the gloss may not be maintained and the process is uneconomical. Particularly for improving the resistance to sulfurous acid, it is preferable to set the integrated current density within the range of 40 to 120 A.sec dm2.Particularly for improving the resistance to salt damage, it is preferable to set the integrated current density of 10 to 80 A.sec dm2. For improving both these resistance characteristics, it is preferable to set the integrated current density within the range of 50 to 70 A.sec dm2. The temperature of this treatment solution should be controlled between 0 and 900C for the reasons to be described below. When the solution temperature is below OOC, the treatment time becomes longer and maintenance of the temperature of treatment solution becomes difficult. When the solution temperature exceeds 90 C, the effects of improving resistance to corrosion may not be obtained.In the cathodic protection with the first treatment solution, the treatment time may be shortened and the power consumption may be reduced with an increase in temperature of the treatment solution With a solution temperature ranging from 70 to 900C, a film of sufficient corrosion resistance may be formed on the surface of the stainless steel sheet with an integrated current density of below 1 A.sec dm2, or even at 0 A.sec dm2 dipping in the solution with no electric current flowing through the stainless steel sheet . The cathodic treatment conditions in the second treatment solution are 1 to 600 A sec dm2 integrated current density, and 10 to 900C solution temperature, preferably 40 to 600C. The integrated current density has been set within the range of 1 to 600 A.sec dm2 for the reasons to be described below. When the integrated current density is below 1 Asec dm2, the gloss may be maintained but the corrosion resistance may not be sufficient. When the integrated current density exceeds 600 A.sec dm2, the surface gloss may not be obtained, discoloration may occur, and the process is uneconomical.Particularly for improving the resistance to sulfurous acid, it is preferable to set the integrated current density within the range of 60 to 200 Asec dm2. Particularly for improving the resistance to salt damage, it is preferable to set the integrated current density within the range of 40 to 80 A.sec dm2. For improving both these resistances, the integrated current density is preferably set within the range of 60 to 80 A.sec dm2. The solution temperature of the second treatment solution has been set to be within the range of 0 to 900C for the same reasons described with reference to the second aspect of the present invention. As for the cathodic treatment in the second treatment solution, the treatment time may be shortened and the power consumption may be reduced with a higher solution temperature. With a solution temperature ranging from 70 to 900C, a corrosion resistant film may be formed on the surface of the stainless steel sheet with an integrated current density of below 1 A.sec dm2, or even at 0 A.sec dm2 dipping in the solution with no electric current flowing through the stainless steel sheet . The cathodic treatment conditions with a solution mixture of the first and second treatment solutions may be substantially the same as those described with reference to the cathodic treatment with either the first or second treatment solution, and may be appropriately selected accordingly. According to the fifth aspect of the present invention, a stainless steel sheet having a BA film or a passive film formed thereon is dipped in an aqueous solution containing 0.1 to 70 by weight of phosphoric acid, preferably 5 to 50 by weight, and cathodic treatment of the stainless steel sheet is carried out under the treatment conditions of 1 to 600 A sec dm2 integrated current density, and 10 to 900C solution temperature, preferably 40 to 600C, using the stainless steel sheet as a cathode and metal molybdenum as an anode.The reasons for setting the phosphoric acid amount and the cathodic protection conditions are the same as those described with reference to the second aspect of the present invention. Metal molybdenum is used as the anode in this process for electrolytically eluting the metal molybdenum during electrolysis. This metal molybdenum improves the resistance to sulfurous acid of the noncorroding film formed on the surface of the stainless steel sheet. It also maintains excellent gloss. Metal molybdenum of higher purity is preferable for improving the corrosion resistance to thereby prevent degradation of the treatment solution. According to this process, since the metal molybdenum as the anode is electrolytically eluted, the molybdate need not be incorporated in advance, thus improving the workability of the treatment. Furthermore, since the metal molybdenum does not contain a large amount of impurities, it prevents degradation in quality of the treatment solution and prolongs the life of the treatment solution. According to the present invention, the treatment time may be shortened with a higher solution temperature and a greater current density. With the treatment solution and the treatment conditions according to the present invention, a corrosion resistant film may be formed, generally, in 10 seconds to 10 minutes. In accordance with the present invention, a film having corrosion resistance may be formed on the surface of a stainless steel sheet, and its corrosion resistance will not be degradated for a long period of time after treatment. This film is rich in gloss and improves the resistance to corrosion of a stainless steel sheet having insufficient resistance to corrosion, thus improving its product value.Example 1 As raw materials, stainless steel sheets or strip of JIS SUS 430 No. 1 , JIS SUS 434 No. 2 , andJIS SUS 304 No. 3 having on their surface BA film formed by bright annealing were used. The treatment solution contained 9.25 by weight of phosphoric acid, 1.68 by weight of chromic acid, 0.78 by weight of magnesium oxide, and 0.108 by weight of sodium silicate. The stainless steel sheets were subjected to cathodic treatment for 3 minutes at a current density of 2.0 A dm2 and a solution temperature of 200C. The surface treated stainless steel sheets were then subjected to a corrosion resistance test according to the conditions shown in Table 1. The obtained results are shown in Table 2. For the purpose of comparison, a conventional stainless steel sheet having simply a BA film formed thereon, i.e. without carrying out the cathodic treatment according to this invention, was also subjected to the corrosion test according to the method shown in Table 1, and the obtained results are also shown in Table 2. A stainless steel sheet without a BA or passive film formed thereon was subjected to the cathodic treatment under the same conditions as in the example described above. The corrosion test results of this material are also shown in Table 2. In the example described above, another treatment solution containing phosphoric acid and chromic acid but not containing magnesium oxide and sodium silicate was similarly used for surface treatment. The results of the corrosion tests on the stainless steel sheet obtained with this treatment solution are also shown inTable 2. Table 1 1 EMI13.1 Test SEP item SEP Solution SEP Test SEP Method SEP of SEP Sample SEP Test SEP Sample SEP Adjustment tb tempera SEP spraying SEP or SEP size SEP time SEP setting SEP of SEP sample tb ture SEP application tb SS SEP NaCl SEP 5 1 SEP 35 2 C SEP Mean SEP sprayed SEP 70 SEP mm SEP x SEP 96 SEP hrs SEP Inclined SEP Washing tb JISZ SEP 2371 SEP pH SEP 6.5 SEP amount SEP after SEP 150 SEP mm SEP 15 SEP with SEP water tb ASTM SEP B SEP 287 SEP Adjusted SEP with SEP operation SEP against SEP tb 62 SEP hydrochloric SEP acid SEP or SEP for SEP 16 SEP hrs SEP normal SEP Alkali tb sodium SEP hydroxide SEP 1.5 0.5 SEP ml SEP line SEP degreasing tb 80 SEP cm2.hr SEP tb Washin tb with SEP water tb CaSS SEP NaCl SEP 5 1 SEP 49 2 C SEP Mean SEP sprayed SEP 70 SEP mm SEP x SEP 16 SEP hrs SEP Inclined SEP Washing tb JISD SEP 0201 SEP CuCl SEP 211.0 SEP amount SEP after SEP 150 SEP mm SEP and SEP 15 SEP with SEP water tb 0.26 SEP g l SEP operation SEP 96 SEP hrs SEP against SEP tb pH SEP 3.1 SEP for SEP 16 SEP hrs SEP normal SEP Alkali tb ASTM SEP B SEP 368 SEP Adjusted SEP with SEP 1.5 0.5 SEP ml SEP line SEP degreasing tb 65 SEP glacial SEP acetic SEP tb acid SEP 80 SEP cm2.hr SEP washing tb with SEP water tb Dip SEP Dry SEP H2O SEP 2100 SEP ml SEP 32 SEP SEP cycle SEP of SEP 30 SEP mm SEP x SEP 100 SEP Vertical SEP Washing tb GM SEP stand SEP 43 C SEP SEP Dip SEP 150 SEP mm SEP cycles SEP with SEP water tb ard SEP NaCl SEP 105 SEP g SEP 2 SEP sec SEP tb Alkali tb Na2SO4 SEP 1 SEP g SEP SEP Dry SEP degreasing tb 43 SEP SEP 100 SEP sec tb pH9.3 tb Na2SO3 SEP 0.5 SEP g SEP 53 C SEP Washing tb with SEP water tb Na2S2O3 SEP 0.2 SEP g tb CaCl2 2H2O tb 105 SEP g tb Table 1 2 EMI14.1 Test SEP item SEP Solution SEP Test SEP Method SEP of SEP Sample SEP Test SEP Sample SEP Adjustment tb tempera SEP spraying SEP or SEP size SEP time SEP setting SEP of SEP sample tb ture SEP application tb Thermo SEP Same SEP as SEP above SEP 110 C SEP Photographic SEP 70 SEP mm SEP x SEP 10 SEP min SEP Horizon SEP Washing tb graphic SEP Humidity SEP paper SEP dipped SEP 150 SEP mm SEP tal SEP with SEP water tb 100 SEP in SEP solution SEP tb is SEP adhered SEP Alkali tb to SEP sample SEP degreasing tb tb Washing tb with SEP water tb 25 SEP g SEP 38 2 C SEP Paste SEP of SEP 70 SEP mm SEP x SEP 16 SEP hrs SEP Inclined SEP Washing tb Corrode SEP Cu NO3 2 3H2O tb 500 SEP ml SEP composition SEP 150 SEP mm SEP 15 SEP with SEP with SEP water tb coat tb 7 SEP ml SEP at SEP left SEP is SEP respect SEP tb JISD SEP 25 SEP g tb FeCl3 6H2O SEP applied SEP with SEP to SEP Alkali tb 0201 SEP 500 SEP ml tb brush SEP normal SEP degreasing tb 33 SEP ml tb line SEP tb 50 SEP g tb NH4Cl SEP 10 SEP ml SEP Washing tb 500 SEP ml tb with SEP water tb Kaolin SEP 30 SEP g tb Sulfurous SEP 2.0 SEP l SEP of SEP SO2 SEP gas SEP is SEP 40 3 C SEP Kept SEP within SEP 70 SEP mm SEP x SEP Placed SEP in SEP Vertical SEP Washing tb acid SEP gas SEP sealed SEP in SEP a SEP chamber SEP of SEP the SEP atmos SEP 150 SEP mm SEP SO2 SEP gas SEP with SEP water tb DIN SEP 50018 SEP 300 SEP l SEP capacity SEP phere SEP atmos SEP tb phere SEP for SEP Alkali tb 8 SEP hrs SEP degreasing tb tb Left SEP to SEP Washing tb stand SEP for SEP with SEP water tb 16 SEP hrs tb after tb opening tb chamber tb Table 2 EMI15.1 tb SEP tn tb SEP Ru SEP 55 SEP co SEP Dip SEP o SEP o SEP Dry SEP Thermo SEP Corrode SEP Sulfurous tb SEP rU SEP rl SEP rl SEP rl tb SEP Sample SEP 16 SEP hrs SEP 96 SEP hrs tb SEP g SEP o. SEP o SEP o SEP o tb Example SEP A SEP treating SEP O SEP m SEP SEP ul SEP tn SEP o SEP m tb SEP material tb SEP SUS SEP 430 tb SEP BA SEP film SEP alone SEP SEP O SEP 16.1 SEP 100 SEP m tb SEP Ec tb SEP O SEP M SEP n SEP o SEP o SEP m SEP H tb SEP inent SEP of SEP raw tb SEP E lbr tb Example SEP BA SEP film tb SEP La SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP Ï SEP H SEP H SEP treat tb SEP o SEP o SEP with SEP solution tb SEP not SEP containing SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 2.1 SEP 17.2 SEP 30.0 SEP 15.0 SEP 100 tb SEP a tb SEP SEP o SEP H SEP o SEP tb SEP SUS SEP 434 tb uz SEP 9 SEP Lreating SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1.7 SEP 0 SEP SEP H tb SEP material tb SEP cj SEP m tb SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o tb SEP W tb SEP cn SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o tb SEP SEP z tb SEP U SEP SEP W SEP H SEP O tb SEP 54 SEP SEP i SEP D SEP I SEP fi SEP O SEP O tb SEP U SEP SEP W SEP O SEP W SEP D SEP mMW tb SEP U SEP SEP a SEP U SEP SEP O SEP O SEP X SEP U SEP tb SEP O SEP SEP o SEP z SEP 3 SEP SEP z SEP X SEP A SEP o SEP SEP o tb SEP W SEP I SEP SEP SEP W SEP U SEP 3 SEP X SEP S SEP SEP SEP tb SEP al SEP I SEP SEP U SEP 54 SEP SEP U SEP g SEP H SEP C SEP U tb SEP D SEP I SEP H SEP H SEP u SEP H SEP u SEP 4o SEP H SEP H tb SEP M SEP o SEP 4X SEP U SEP o SEP g SEP H SEP , SEP v SEP 4 SEP U SEP t SEP g tb SEP SEP a SEP m SEP U SEP H SEP m SEP H SEP U SEP o SEP H SEP H SEP t SEP 3 SEP O SEP 02 SEP g SEP m SEP U SEP H SEP m SEP H tb SEP SEP H SEP v SEP t SEP 4 SEP sr SEP H SEP 0 SEP 59 SEP H SEP O SEP V SEP aJ SEP H SEP t SEP O SEP z SEP v SEP H tb SEP I SEP m SEP z SEP o SEP W SEP SEP 4 SEP a SEP u SEP SEP 4 SEP U SEP H SEP 59 SEP o SEP W tb SEP SEP E SEP m SEP W SEP m SEP X SEP a SEP W SEP fi SEP CX SEP tt SEP m SEP Lv SEP m tb SEP SEP U SEP D SEP U SEP 3 SEP SEP U SEP sl5 SEP O SEP O SEP U SEP O SEP D SEP U SEP D SEP tb SEP SEP m SEP m SEP 4 SEP U SEP r SEP g SEP m SEP v SEP E SEP m SEP SEP g SEP m SEP m tb SEP u SEP tb SEP 4J SEP 4 tb SEP O SEP U SEP O SEP O SEP U SEP a tb SEP P4 SEP t SEP Q4 SEP r 4 SEP 14 SEP Q4 tb SEP ffi SEP Q4 SEP g SEP g SEP Q4 SEP g tb SEP X SEP OX SEP X SEP SEP X tb SEP X SEP U SEP 4 SEP rI4 SEP U SEP tb A treating material ..... treated with the first treatment solution Example 2 The gloss of the surfaces of the stainless steel sheets obtained in Example 1 was compared with the gloss of the stainless steel sheets having the BA film formed thereon. The presence or absence of gloss was evaluated. The obtained results are shown in Table 3. For the purpose of comparison, the same evaluations were made on stainless steel sheets treated with the treatment solutions wherein the amounts of phosphoric acid, chromic acid, magnesium oxide and sodium silicate deviated from the ranges according to the present invention, and on stainless steel sheets obtained at integrated current densities which deviated from the ranges according to the present invention. The obtained results are shown in Table 3. Table 3 EMI17.1 Solution SEP composition SEP SEP by SEP weight SEP Treating SEP conditions tb Phosphoric SEP Chromic SEP Magnesium SEP Sodium SEP Current SEP Solution SEP Treatment SEP Gloss tb acid SEP acid SEP oxide SEP silicate SEP density SEP tempera SEP time tb ture SEP C SEP min tb A dm2 tb 10 SEP 2 SEP 1.0 SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP 25 SEP 3 SEP 0 tb Example SEP 10 SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 1.0 SEP 2 SEP 25 SEP 3 SEP 0 tb 9.25 SEP 16.8 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.1 SEP 2 SEP 25 SEP 3 SEP 0 tb Deviated SEP 2.0 SEP 2 SEP 2.5 SEP 0 SEP 25 SEP 3 SEP x tb solution tb Compara SEP composi SEP 2 SEP 15 SEP 1.0 SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP 25 SEP 3 SEP x tb tive SEP tion tb Example tb Deviated tb in SEP in SEP 10 SEP 2 SEP 1.0 SEP 0 SEP 10 SEP 25 SEP 3 SEP x tb tegral tb current tb density tb o...Good gloss x...Poor gloss Example 3 Stainless steel sheet raw materials were used which were obtained by bright annealing the sheets according to JIS SUS 430, JIS SUS 434, and JIS SUS 420J2 to form BA films, and by hair line treating forming a passive film on the sheet according to JISSUS 304. The treatment solution contained 9.37 by weight of phosphoric acid and 1.348 by weight of sodium molybdate. These stainless steel sheets were subjected to cathodic treatment in this treatment solution under the conditions of a current density of 1.0 A dm2, a solution temperature of 200C, and a treatment time of 3 minutes treatment 1 . These stainless steel sheets were then subjected to cathodic treatment again at a current density of 1.0 A dm2, a solution temperature of 500C, and a treatment time of 30 seconds treatment 2 . The stainless steel sheets surface treated in this manner then underwent the corrosion resistance test shown in Table 1, and the obtained results are shown inTable 4. For the purpose of comparison, a stainless steel sheet having a BA film formed thereon was similarly subjected to the corrosion resistance test and the obtained results are shown in Table 4. A stainless steel sheet having neither the BA film nor the passive film was subjected to cathodic protection under the same conditions as in this example. The obtained results are also shown in Table 4. A stainless steel sheet as in the above example was similarly subjected to cathodic treatment with a treatment solution which contained phosphoric acid but which did not contain a molybdate. The results of the corrosion resistance test on this stainless steel sheet are also shown in Table 4. Table 4 Proportion of rusted area EMI19.1 SEP Test SEP Dip SEP and SEP Dry SEP Sulfurous tb SEP acid SEP gas tb SEP Sample tb SEP SUS SEP 430 SEP 161 SEP 0 SEP tb Example SEP Treatment SEP 1 tb SEP SUS SEP 430 SEP 30 SEP 0 tb SEP Treatment SEP 2 tb SEP SUS SEP 430 tb SEP Raw SEP material SEP 100 SEP 100 tb Comparative SEP SUS SEP 430 tb Example SEP Treatment SEP 1 SEP without SEP film SEP .0 SEP 00 tb SEP SUS SEP 430 tb SEP Treatment SEP 1 SEP with SEP solution SEP 21.0 SEP 100 tb SEP not SEP containing SEP molybdate tb Example SEP SUS SEP 434 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP tb SEP Treatment SEP 1 tb Comparative SEP SUS SEP 434 SEP 17 SEP 80 tb Example SEP Raw SEP material tb Example SEP SUS SEP 420J2 SEP 20.0 SEP 20.0 tb SEP Treatment SEP 1 tb Comparative SEP SUS SEP 420J2 tb Example SEP Raw SEP material SEP 100 SEP 100 tb Example SEP SUS SEP 304 SEP 0 SEP SEP 0 SEP tb SEP Treatment SEP 1 SEP hair line SEP 0 SEP 0 tb Comparative SEP SUS SEP 304 tb 15.0 SEP 18.0 tb Example SEP Raw SEP material SEP hair line tb Example 4 The surface gloss of the stainless steel sheet JIS SUS 430 obtained in Example 3 was compared with that of the stainless steel sheet having the BA film formed thereon. The presence or absence of gloss was evaluated. The obtained results are shown in Table 5. For the purpose of comparison, evaluations were made on the presence or absence of gloss on the stainless steel sheets obtained with the treatment solutions wherein the amounts of phosphoric acid and molybdate deviated from the ranges according to the present invention, and on the stainless steel sheets obtained at current densities which deviated from the ranges according to the present invention. The obtained results are also shown in Table 5. Table 5 EMI21.1 Solution SEP composition SEP Treating SEP conditions tb SEP by SEP weight tb Phosphoric SEP Molybdate SEP Current SEP Solution SEP Treatment SEP Gloss tb acid SEP density SEP temperature SEP time tb A dm2 SEP C tb 5.0 SEP 1.0 SEP 2 SEP 25 SEP 3 SEP o tb Example SEP 40.0 SEP 0.5 SEP 1 SEP 50 SEP 1 SEP o tb 40.0 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 80 SEP 1 SEP o tb Deviated SEP 80 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 25 SEP 1 SEP x tb solution tb Compara SEP composition SEP 20 SEP 15 SEP 1 SEP 25 SEP 1 SEP x tb tive tb Example SEP Deviated SEP in SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 12 SEP 25 SEP 1 SEP x tb integrated tb current tb density SEP 40 SEP 0.5 SEP 12 SEP 25 SEP 1 SEP x tb o ... Good gloss, x ...Poor gloss Example 5 Stainless steel sheets were used which were obtained by bright annealing sheets according to JIS SUS 430 to form BA films thereon. The first treatment solution contained 9.25 by weight of phosphoric acid, 1.68 by weight of chromic acid, 0.78 by weight of magnesium oxide, and 0.10 by weight of sodium silicate. The stainless steel sheets were subjected to cathodic treatment by varying the treatment conditions within the ranges according to the present invention. The second treatment solution contained 9.37 by weight of phosphoric acid and 1.34 by weight of sodium molybdate.The stainless steel sheets were subjected to cathodic treatment again by varying the treatment conditions within the ranges according to the present invention. The stainless steel sheets surface treated in this manner were subjected to the corrosion resistance test according to the method shown in Table 1 the resistance to sulfurous acid was evaluated according to the sulfurous acid gas corrosion test as defined in Dln, and the resistance to salt damage was evaluated according to the Dip and Dry method GM conditions . The obtained results are shown in Table 6. Observations were made on gloss and discoloration of the surfaces of the sheets, and the obtained results are also shown inTable 6. For the purpose of comparison, stainless steel sheets were subjected to various treatment methods.Some stainless steel sheets were subjected to the first and second treatments wherein the treatment conditions deviated from te ranges according to the present invention Nos. 9 to 12 . A stainless steel sheet was subjected to cathodic treatment in the first treatment solution but not to the second treatment No. 13 .Stainless steel sheets were subjected to the first treatment but not to the second treatment Nos. 14 and 15 . A stainless steel sheet which did not have a BA film was subjected to the first and second treatments No. 16 . A stainless steel sheet was subjected to the second treatment first and to the first treatment thereafter No. 17 . A stainless steel sheet was subjected to a treatment with a solution mixture of the first and second treatment solutions No. 18 . These stainless steel sheets were subjected to the corrosion resistance test and were evaluated for gloss and discoloration. The results are shown in Table 6. In the case of sample No. 18, the composition of the solution mixture was 9.378 by weight of phosphoric acid, 1.68 by weight of chromic acid, 0.78 by weight of magnesium oxide, and 1.34 by weight of a molybdate,The treatment conditions were 1 A dm2 current density, 60 second treatment time, and 500C solution temperature. For the purpose of comparison, stainless steel sheets were subjected to dipping without conduction of current instead of cathodic treatment in the first and second treatment solutions Nos. 19 to 21 . These stainless steel sheets were subjected to the corrosion resistance test and were evaluated for gloss and discoloration. The results are shown in Table 6. Table 6 1 EMI24.1 tb SEP I tb SEP W SEP O SEP E SEP O SEP g SEP O SEP g SEP O SEP g SEP C SEP E SEP O SEP E SEP O SEP g SEP O SEP tb SEP G SEP rl SEP E SEP a, SEP rl SEP c SEP m tb SEP rl SEP a SEP rl SEP o, tb SEP m SEP w SEP C SEP cl SEP Lci SEP m SEP w tb SEP m SEP m SEP condition SEP Test SEP X SEP SEP n SEP SEP m SEP results tb SEP u SEP m SEP m SEP n SEP m SEP tb SEP ca tb SEP rirst SEP treatment SEP s SEP X SEP s SEP treatment SEP Corrosion SEP s SEP texture tb SEP sq SEP 4 SEP E SEP W SEP a4 SEP g4 SEP g SEP W SEP g SEP W SEP s4 SEP g tb SEP U2 SEP D SEP Ms,1 SEP MH SEP C,1 SEP M,1 SEP MH SEP U SEP H SEP MH SEP 4H tb SEP CI SEP m SEP vi SEP s SEP vi SEP 3 SEP vi SEP 3 SEP m SEP 3 SEP vi SEP 5 SEP vJ SEP m SEP 3 SEP m SEP m SEP and SEP m SEP 5 tb SEP m SEP current SEP tempera SEP current SEP Dry SEP acid SEP gas tb SEP a, SEP rm tb SEP ture SEP density SEP 2 SEP U tb SEP ri SEP SEP c SEP cu SEP m SEP ri tb SEP 7 SEP aH, SEP r tb SEP a SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o tb SEP Eq SEP D SEP U tb SEP No. SEP m SEP 20 SEP 20 SEP 50 SEP 30 SEP 0 SEP 1.1 SEP with SEP BA SEP film tb SEP Eu tb SEP Same SEP as SEP sheet tb SEP m SEP 2 SEP 20 SEP 45 SEP 50 SEP 55 SEP O SEP N tb SEP Same SEP as SEP sheet tb SEP No. SEP 3 SEP SEP SEP SEP tb SEP a SEP cu SEP 1 tb SEP a, SEP E tb SEP 4J SEP U SEP o SEP as SEP n SEP o SEP o SEP Ln SEP n tb SEP No. SEP W SEP 20 SEP m SEP m SEP m SEP 45 SEP 0 SEP 0.1 SEP with SEP BA SEP film tb SEP C SEP kCU SEP ri tb SEP cu SEP tn SEP a SEP rl SEP a SEP tb SEP E SEP cukmml tb J SEP No. SEP 5 SEP 20 SEP 45 SEP 60 SEP 50 SEP 1.8 SEP 1.2 SEP Same SEP as SEP sheet tb SEP with SEP HUa I tb SEP SEP k SEP . tb SEP O SEP CIF SEP FI tb SEP ri SEP 0 SEP O SEP rd tb SEP No. SEP 6 SEP 20 SEP 70 SEP z SEP 80 SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP j SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP sheet tb SEP ,l SEP A SEP 4 SEP BA SEP film tb SEP a SEP 1 SEP a SEP a, SEP o tb SEP c tb SEP o SEP a SEP o SEP o SEP u SEP Y tb SEP No. SEP 7 SEP 20 SEP 65 SEP 70 SEP 75 SEP , tb SEP with SEP BA SEP film tb SEP hl SEP 1 tb SEP a SEP E tb SEP No. SEP U SEP 20 SEP 125 SEP o SEP 115 SEP 3.2 SEP 0.1 SEP Same SEP as SEP sheet tb SEP with SEP BA SEP N SEP v SEP film tb SEP W SEP 54 SEP CX SEP V SEP H tb SEP z SEP SEP m SEP H SEP tb SEP S SEP E SEP W tb SEP 4 SEP H SEP U SEP t SEP tb SEP W tb SEP AA SEP a SEP I tb SEP W SEP O SEP O SEP U tb SEP S SEP ,1 SEP 9 SEP SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O tb SEP X SEP fi SEP 4S SEP aJ SEP v SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N tb SEP ul SEP D SEP 5 SEP D4to tb SEP Sq SEP H SEP H SEP g SEP z SEP tb SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP D tb SEP N SEP uz SEP U SEP W SEP 4J SEP tb SEP SEP H SEP fS SEP m SEP sr SEP LO SEP tD SEP SEP CO tb SEP SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O tb SEP SEP SEP z SEP z SEP z SEP z SEP SEP z SEP tb Table 6 2 EMI25.1 tb SEP a, SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP I SEP I SEP I tb SEP FI SEP a SEP a SEP J SEP tb SEP r SEP a, SEP a, SEP J SEP e SEP c SEP c tb SEP c, SEP a, SEP E SEP a, SEP E SEP x3 SEP x SEP a, SEP E SEP 3 SEP 1 tb SEP x SEP rl SEP a,rl SEP k SEP o SEP k SEP a SEP ri SEP ri SEP o SEP ci SEP ri tb SEP a, SEP C SEP rl SEP rd SEP r SEP r6 SEP a, SEP c SEP ri SEP r SEP ri SEP ri SEP a, SEP a, tb SEP m SEP R SEP mri i SEP mrl SEP m7 tb SEP Q, SEP ri SEP a, SEP ci tb SEP a, SEP m SEP II SEP a SEP t SEP a SEP a SEP oi SEP a SEP a SEP a SEP a SEP a tb SEP u tb SEP Solution SEP Integrated SEP Solution SEP Integrated SEP Dip SEP and SEP 1 tb SEP tempera SEP ori SEP tempera SEP current SEP Dry SEP acid SEP gas tb SEP ture SEP density SEP 2 SEP ture SEP density SEP 2 SEP tb SEP a SEP 0C tb SEP 7a SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP tb SEP m SEP 9 SEP S SEP 100 SEP O SEP 50 SEP 60 SEP o SEP 75 SEP Same SEP as SEP sheet tb SEP with SEP z SEP BA SEP film tb SEP a, SEP mrd tb SEP oc tb SEP with SEP BA SEP film tb tn SEP E SEP rl SEP O SEP rl SEP Ln SEP O tb SEP Om SEP Id SEP d SEP c SEP d SEP d tb SEP No.11 SEP ffi SEP r SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP N SEP vi SEP N SEP H SEP t9 tb SEP ly SEP to SEP n SEP a tb SEP a SEP Nh SEP I tb SEP o tb SEP No.12 SEP 20 SEP 60 SEP 50 SEP g SEP 720 SEP 2.0 SEP 0 SEP Changed SEP marked SEP ly SEP to SEP o SEP o SEP O SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP rd SEP c, SEP 2 SEP io SEP r, SEP N SEP 0 SEP 43 SEP 0 tb SEP E SEP kr U SEP t SEP re tb SEP E SEP 120 SEP 16.1 SEP 87.2 SEP Same SEP X SEP tb SEP with SEP BA SEP film tb SEP la SEP car tb SEP U SEP H SEP O SEP t SEP ic SEP tb SEP E SEP FI SEP SEP 0.2 SEP Changed SEP slight SEP ly SEP to SEP yellow tb SEP ri SEP O SEP O SEP rd tb SEP J SEP a SEP ri SEP k SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o tb SEP ri SEP C SEP J SEP I , SEP a, SEP u SEP rr, SEP Ln SEP o SEP In SEP U SEP V SEP V tb SEP a SEP o SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP a SEP cU SEP o SEP rI tb SEP No.15 SEP H SEP 180 SEP 10.5 SEP 5 SEP SEP slight tb SEP ly SEP to SEP blue tb SEP U SEP 113 n SEP C V tb SEP ,S SEP 4 SEP 20 SEP 60 SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP 7 SEP o tb SEP ly SEP to SEP blue tb SEP W SEP sq SEP W SEP U SEP SEP H tb SEP k SEP SEP r SEP O tb SEP Es SEP E SEP D SEP SEP tb SEP U SEP H SEP U SEP t SEP SEP de SEP tb SEP W SEP O SEP O SEP U SEP SEP tb SEP ,1 SEP H SEP S SEP SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP SEP SEP O tb SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP W SEP a SEP v SEP O SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP ur SEP SEP SEP cs tb SEP U SEP X SEP D SEP Ao SEP H SEP SEP tb SEP k SEP H SEP SEP fi SEP z SEP s SEP SEP tb SEP r1 SEP 0 SEP O SEP O SEP D SEP SEP tb SEP o tb SEP SEP . SEP H SEP SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP .H SEP H tb SEP SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O tb SEP I SEP SEP 54O SEP tb SEP 1 SEP A SEP fi SEP x tb SEP g SEP o SEP x SEP X tb SEP t SEP v SEP X tb Table 6 3 EMI26.1 tb SEP cu SEP I SEP I tb SEP k SEP cl SEP c, tb SEP I SEP C SEP ,6 SEP C tb SEP J SEP br SEP tn SEP aE SEP aE SEP arE tb SEP X SEP rt SEP r SEP Q SEP a, SEP ri SEP a, SEP cI tb SEP a, SEP rl SEP a, SEP ri SEP a, SEP e SEP ri SEP c SEP ri tb SEP m SEP 3 SEP m SEP rW SEP cn SEP m SEP Y r tb SEP rl tb SEP aa SEP an SEP m SEP tb SEP u SEP a, SEP Q, SEP mFP SEP cdPcl SEP rdP1 tb SEP rd SEP O SEP tO tb SEP Solution SEP U SEP Solution SEP Integrated SEP Dip SEP and SEP m SEP 3 SEP m SEP 3 tb SEP 3 SEP current SEP tempera SEP current SEP Dry SEP acid SEP gas tb SEP m tb SEP ture SEP density SEP 2 SEP ture SEP o SEP SEP 2 SEP tb SEP k SEP A.sec cm SEP SEP U SEP . SEP . tb SEP k SEP SEP Ln SEP in SEP o SEP o tb SEP c, SEP dP SEP C I SEP O SEP M tb SEP No.17 SEP qq SEP , SEP 50 SEP 60 SEP 11.2 SEP 25.0 SEP Changed SEP slight SEP sru tb SEP Ú SEP m SEP U tb SEP No.18 SEP Solution SEP mixture SEP of SEP first SEP and SEP second SEP m tb SEP Om SEP solutions SEP ly SEP U SEP . SEP . tb SEP k SEP I r SEP rl SEP O SEP r, SEP O SEP V tb SEP km SEP ri SEP I tb SEP O SEP a, SEP ri SEP k tb SEP U SEP 40 SEP a SEP n tb SEP tb U SEP cs tb SEP E tb FJ SEP No.20 SEP U SEP o SEP o SEP 0 SEP o SEP C tb SEP with SEP U SEP film tb SEP C, SEP krU tb SEP tT SEP a SEP ri SEP a, SEP o tb SEP E SEP cuFtmtn SEP u tb SEP 4o SEP 4 SEP m SEP C SEP commat tb SEP with SEP BA SEP SEP SEP a SEP SEP film tb SEP H SEP U SEP t SEP SEP t tb SEP O SEP W SEP g SEP C SEP I SEP tb SEP ri SEP O SEP O SEP U SEP U tb SEP 4J SEP t t SEP JH SEP S SEP SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O tb SEP H SEP SEP 4 SEP W SEP U SEP U SEP W SEP m SEP LN SEP LO tb SEP r SEP O SEP D SEP 5 SEP z SEP o SEP uz tb SEP C SEP O SEP H SEP SEP E SEP z SEP SEP Lq tb SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP D SEP H tb SEP U SEP U SEP uz SEP U SEP W SEP 4J SEP W tb SEP SEP t SEP t SEP W0 SEP X tb SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP U SEP o SEP t SEP O SEP O SEP o SEP o tb SEP U SEP U SEP dX SEP k0 SEP S4 SEP kD tb SEP 4 SEP k SEP C SEP W SEP U SEP D SEP W tb SEP z SEP SEP OO SEP H SEP W SEP D tb SEP Eq SEP 54 SEP X SEP tb SEP g SEP WAU SEP hO tb SEP 4 SEP H SEP Ú SEP ffi SEP X tb SEP C SEP W tb SEP z SEP C SEP C SEP I SEP O SEP a tb SEP W SEP O SEP O SEP U SEP d SEP tb SEP ,1 SEP 6 SEP SEP W SEP g SEP O SEP O SEP O tb SEP SEP 4J SEP O SEP t S SEP D SEP w SEP v SEP v SEP v tb SEP ul SEP 5 SEP D SEP z SEP O SEP o SEP H SEP U tb SEP AH SEP H SEP g SEP A SEP O SEP t tb SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP D SEP k tb SEP X SEP uz SEP V SEP 4 SEP SEP 4J SEP w SEP S tb SEP i SEP SEP a SEP c SEP o SEP H tb SEP SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP es SEP N tb SEP SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o tb SEP SEP z SEP z SEP z SEP z SEP z tb SEP X SEP SEP o SEP ow tb SEP 1 SEP X SEP a SEP x tb SEP l,z SEP X SEP tb Numbers marked with indicate conditions deviating from ranges of present invention Example 6 Stainless steel sheets were obtained by bright annealing the sheets according to JIS SUS 430 to formBA films thereon.A treatment was carried out using these sheets as cathodes and metal molybdenum plates of 99.0 by weight purity as anodes in a treatment solution containing 10 by weight of phosphoric acid. Some of these stainless steel sheets were subjected to a treatment under the conditions of 2 A dm2 current density, 25eC solution temperature, and 3 minutes treatment time treatment 1 , and the rest to another treatment under the conditions of 1 A dm2 current density, 600C solution temperature and 1 minute treatment time treatment 2 . The stainless steel sheets surface treated in this manner were subjected to the corrosion resistance test by the method shown in Table 1, and the obtained results are shown in Table 7. For the purpose of comparison, 0.5 by weight of sodium molybdate was added to the treatment solution of the example, and a stainless steel sheet was surfacetreated in this treatment solution. The obtained sheet was subjected to the corrosion resistance test, and the.obtained results are shown in Table 7. The stainless steel sheet having a BA film was also subjected to the corrosion resistance test and the obtained results are shown in Table 7. The stainless steel sheet having neither the BA film nor the passive film was subjected to cathodic treatment under the same conditions as in the example.The results of the corrosion resistance test of this sheet are also shown in Table 7 . In the above example, a similar sheet was subjected to cathodic treatment using lead instead of metal molybdenum as the anode. The results of the corrosion resistance test of this sheet arse also shown in Table 7. Table 7Ratio of rested area EMI28.1 Dip SEP and SEP Dry SEP Sulfurous SEP acid SEP gas tb SUS SEP 430 tb 2.0 SEP 0 tb Treatment SEP 1 tb Example tb SUS SEP 430 tb 3.0 SEP 0 tb Treatment SEP 2 tb Solution SEP with SEP sodium tb 2.0 SEP 0 tb molybdate tb SUS SEP 430 tb Raw SEP material SEP with SEP BA SEP 100 SEP 100 tb film tb Comparative tb Example SEP SUS SEP 434 tb Raw SEP material SEP with SEP BA SEP 1.7 SEP 80 tb film tb SUS SEP 430 tb Raw SEP material SEP without SEP BA SEP 8.0 SEP 100 tb film tb SUS SEP 430 tb Raw SEP material SEP with SEP BA tb film SEP 30 SEP 100 tb Cathodic SEP treatment tb lead SEP anode tb It is seen from the above table that corrosion resistance is significantly improved according to the present invention. A treatment solution containing sodium molybdenum also results in good corrosion resistance of the resultant sheet. However, as will be made clear in Example 8, degradation in quality of the treatment solution is significant with this composition.Example 7 The surface gloss of the stainless steel sheet JIS SUS 430 obtained in Example 6 was compared with that of the stainless steel sheet having a BA film formed thereon. Evaluations were made as to the presence or absence of gloss. The obtained results are shown inTable 8. For the purpose of comparision, similar evaluations were made on a stainless steel sheet subjected to cathodic treatment using lead instead of metal molybdenum as the anode, on a stainless steel sheet subjected to cathodic treatment after being dipped in a treatment solution wherein the amount of phosphoric acid deviated from the range according to the present invention, and a stainless steel sheet subjected to cathodic treatmcnt wherein the current density deviated from the range according to the present invention. The obtained results are shown in Table 8. Table 8 EMI30.1 Solution SEP Anode SEP Treating SEP conditions tb composition tb SEP by SEP Current SEP Solution SEP Treatment SEP Gloss tb weight SEP density SEP temperature SEP time tb Phosphoric SEP C SEP min tb A dm2 tb acid tb Metal tb 3 SEP moly SEP 2 SEP 60 SEP 60 SEP 0 tb bdenum tb Metal tb Example SEP 20 SEP moly SEP 2 SEP 60 SEP 30 SEP 0 tb bdenum tb Metal tb 40 SEP moly SEP 2 SEP 60 SEP 30 SEP 0 tb bdenum tb Deviated SEP 20 SEP Lead SEP 2 SEP 60 SEP 30 SEP x tb solution tb Compara SEP composi SEP Metal tb tive SEP tion SEP 0.05 SEP moly SEP 2 SEP 60 SEP 60 SEP x tb Exampel SEP bdenum tb Metal tb 60 SEP moly SEP 2 SEP 60 SEP 30 SEP x tb bdenum tb Deviated SEP Metal tb in SEP in SEP 20 SEP moly SEP 8 SEP 60 SEP 30 SEP x tb tegrated SEP bdenum tb current tb density SEP Metal tb 40 SEP moly SEP 8 SEP 60 SEP 30 SEP x tb bdenum tb O...Good glass, x...Poor gloss It is seen from the above table that excellent gloss may be obtained according to the process of the present invention.Example 8 After the treatment treatment 1 of Example 6, degradation in quality of the treatment solution was evaluated Degradation in quality was not observed after 75 hours. To the treatment solution used in Example 6 was added 0.5 by weight of sodium molybdate. Cathodic treatment was carried out using a ferrite anode. DegradatiÏn in quality of the treatment solution was evaluated. Degradation in quality of the treatment solution was first observed after 25 hours. For judging the degradation, a belt shaped plate of a sample 100 mm in width was continuously treated in 1 liter of the electrolytic solution. The solution was judged to have been degraded when the rusting rate according to the sulfurous acid resistance test exceeded 10 . In summary, according to the process of the present invention, corrosion resistance, particularly resistance tc sulfurous acid, is excellent and excellent gloss may be maintained, providing an excellent process for surface treatment of stainless steel sheets for automobiles. With the process of the present invention, preparation for the treatment is easy and degradation in the treatment solution may be prevented for a long period of time.