# Apparatus for drying pressurized air.

## Abstract
Apparatus for drying pressurized air 8 comprising a first heat exchanger 5, 9, 10 in which supplied wet air is cooled indirectly by means of cooled dried air, and a second heat exchanger in which the wet pressurized air is cooled further to a desired temperature and fed to the first heat exchanger as cooled dried air and therefrom to the consumer 15 , in which both of the heat exchangers are arranged above each other in a common housing 1 , the second heat exchanger beneath the first heat exchanger, which second heat exchanger is constituted by an icewaterbath in the lower portion of the insulated housing to which the air is in direct con tact, through which bath tubes 11 or the like extend through which a cold medium is fed from a cooling installation at the outer surfaces of which ice may be formed.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Apparatus for drying pressurized air comprising a first heat exchanger in which supplied wet air is cooled indirectly by means of cooled dried air, and a second heat exchanger in which the wet pressurized air is cooled further to a desired temperature and fed to the first heat exchanger as cooled dried air and therefrom to the consumer, in which both of the heat exchangers are arranged above each other in a common housing, the second heat exchanger beneath the first heat exchanger, characterized in that the second heat exchanger is constituted by an icewaterbath in the lower portion of the insulated housing to which the air is in direct contact, through which bath tubes or the like extend through which a cold medium is fed from a cooling installation at the outer surfaces of which ice may be formed. 2. Apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in that the housing is implemented as a vertically disposed vessel having a cylindrical or polygonical cross section, and provided in it with a central tube, that the air to be dried is supplied into the tube at the upper end, that a subsequent portion of the tube forms part of the first heat exchanger, said tube at the lower end is in open communication with the icewaterbath and that said tubes or the like surround the portion of the tube extending in the icewaterbath. 3. Apparatus according to claim 3, characterized in that the first heat exchanger is formed by a portion of the wall of said tube, in which the wet pressurized air flows along the inner side of the wall and the pressurized air coming from the icebath flows along the outer side to an outlet at the upper end of the tube. 4. Apparatus according to claim 3, characterized in that for guiding the pressurized air along the outer and inner side of the wall concentrical guiding tubes are provided extending over the height of the first heat exchanger. 5. Apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in that one or more tubes are provided with means promoting the heat transfer.

## Description
Apparatus for drying pressurized air. The invention relates to an apparatus for drying pressurized air comprising a first heat exchanger in which supplied wet air is cooled indirectly by means of cooled dried air and a second heat exchanger in which the wet pressurized air is cooled further to a desired temperature and is fed as cooled dried air to the first heat exchanger and therefrom to the consumer, in which both of the heat exchangers are arranged above each other in a common housing with the second heat exchanger beneath the first heat exchanger. Such an apparatus is known from the Dutch patent application 7411037. Therein both of the heat exchangers are indirectly operating heat exchangers. Therein, as cooling medium for the second heat exchanger generally water is used, what means that the air is generally not colder than approximately 150C. It is known that more water vapour may be separated from the pressurized air by cooling the pressurized air to a lower temperature. For example, for cooling the air in the second heat exchanger one makes use of freon or ammonia 0 being cooled to temperatures extremely lower than OOC by a conventional cooling installation and to which the pressurized air is brought in indirect contact, see for example the Dutch patent application 287, 97. The invention has the object to provide an apparatus 0 by which always the dew point of OOC is reached. In the one known apparatus said temperature is not nearly achieved and in the other known apparatus it is cooled too deeply, resulting in much unnecessary energy consumption. Also, apparatuses are known in which the compressor runs continuously. Tsten cooling power is not required, i.e.no pressurized gas has been taken off, the cooling power is destroyed through a by pass . The invention has achieved said object by an apparatus according to the invention in which the second heat exchanger is constituted by an icewaterbath in the lower portion of the insulated housing, to which the air is n direct contact, through which bath tubes or the like extend through which a cold medium is fed from a cooling installation at the outer surfaces of which ice may be formed. Thus, in the icewaterbath a so called ice accumulator is provided for example known per se in the daire industry for other purposes. Such an ice accumulator is actually a normal cooling installation forming a layer of ice on the tubes or the like in the icewaterbath. The temperature of the water through which the air is fed thus remains constant at 00C by the presence of ice in the water. When it is few in demand for dried pressurized gas the cooling installation operates further until a predetermined ice thickness is formed and then the compressor stalls, but the water in the insulated housing remains at the same temperature. When again pressurized air is taken off by the consumer first all of the ice melts until the temperature of the water becomes too high and the compressor of the cooling installation is switched on again. So, in the second heat exchanger always 00C is reached, not higher but also not lower. According to a referred embodiment of the invention the housing is implemented as a vertically disposed vessel having cylindrical or polygonical cross section and provided in it with a central tube, the air to be dried is supplied into the tube at the upper end, the subsequent portion of the tube constitutes a part of the first heat exchanger, which tube at the lower end is in open communication with the icewaterbath and said tubes or the like are around the portion of the tube extending within the ice waterbath. Hereafter, the invention will be explained by reference of the drawing, which drawing shows a longitudinal sectional view of the apparatus according to the invention, in which the internal of the housing in the lefthand half is shown as a sectional view and in the righthand half partly as view. The cylindrical wall of the housing is referred by 1. At the lower end the housing is closed by a cover 2 and at the upper end by a cover 3, which covers 2 and 3 are connected to each other by drawbolts 4. The wall 1 and the covers 2 and 3 are insulated against heat. The insulation of the wall 1 is referred by Ia. In the center of the housing a vertical tube 5 extends throughout the cover 3.The tube 5 terminates at a short distance from the cover 2 and or is provided there with outlet openings 6. The tube 5 is closed at the upper end by a cover 7 having therein an inlet 8 for supplying the pressurized air to be dried.Said pressurized air originates from a known apparatus for the production of pressurized air. Said pressurized air may be used for all kinds of purposes, but therefrom first the water vapour should be removed as much as possible. At the upper portion of the tube 5 at the inner side a concentrical tube 9 is arranged and at the outer side the concentrical tube 10. The tube 5 and or the tube 9 and or the tube 10 is provided with means knoam per se for improving the heat transfer. Such means may consist of ribs, ondulations or the like. Around the lower portion of the tube 5 a cooling coil 11 is arranged, the terminals of which extend through the bottom 2 to a conventional cooling installation not shown.Said cooling installation is provided in a known way with among others a driving motor and a compressor. As cold medium for said cooling installation freon or ammonia is used. The housing is filled with water by approximately one third of the height. Thus, said water surrounds the tube and is within the tube 5 at the height referred by A. In a known way there may be an overflow tube 12 extending outwardly through the bottom 2 to a steam trap not shown for preventing blowing empty the apparatus. In the upper portion of the apparatus yet a tube 13 is provided within the wall 1 Said tube 13 is i losed at its underside by a bottom 14 extending up to the tube 5.The tube 10 extends in spaced relation to the bottom 14.The space between the tubes 10 and 13 can eventually be filled up with a filling mass known per se and for example consisting of metal chips. The discharge tube section for the dried air is indicated by 15. The direction of movement of the air to be dried and dried air is indicated in the drawing by arrows. The wet air enters through the inlet tube section 8 and advances downwards in the space between the tubes 5 and 9 along the inner wall of the tube 5 up to the lower end of the tube 5 where the air enters into the icewaterbath through the openings 6. Then, the air rises upwards from the icewaterbath and enters the annular space between the Jacket 1 and the tube 13. Said concentrical space is left at the upper end whereafter the air advances downwards between the tubes 15 and 10 through the eventually present filling mass and rises upwards again between the tubes 10 and 5 and finally leaves the apparatus through the discharge tube section 15. The tubes 5, 9 and 10 constitute the first heat exchanger and the icewaterbath the second heat exchanger. At the bottom 14 a discharge hose 16 may be connected for discharging to the icewaterbath the condensate drops trapped in the filling mass. It will be apparent that in the first heat exchanger 5, 9, 10 the wet air entering through the tube section 8 is cooled by the air originating from the second heat exchanger, i.e. the icewaterbath. The icewaterbath is provided with a so called iceaccumulator being used among others in the dairy industry.At the outer surface of the tubes 11 ice is formed by feeding freon or ammonia through the tubes. By the presence of ice the water of the icewaterbath will always have a temperature of nearly OOC. When the ice attains a certain thickness the compressor of the cooling installation stalls.Then, the ice can melt while the bath keeps always the temperature of approximately OOC yet. TlNhen all of the ice is melted, the compressor is switched on again. All this may be attained by usual control means known per se. The device according to the invention operates ex tremely economically as the air is not cooled deeper than necessary. Further the cooling installation is out of operation when no dried air is demanded by the consumer.Generally the discharge tube section 15 is connected to a storage vessel for pressurized air. T.7hen pressurized air is necessary first the storage vessel is used. When yet more pressurized air is necessary, the pressurized air is fed through the inlet tube section 8 and dried by both of the heat exchangers. When at said moment the cooling installation does not operate it remains out of operation until all of the ice is melted. Only then the cooling installation is activated again.