# Process for thickening and stabilizing oil in water emulsions containing milk solids and emulsion stabilizer for use therein.

## Abstract
An oil in water emuision stabilizer comprises a blend of 27 90 guar, 8 66 algin, and 0.5 30 xanthan gum, the amount of each being chosen to total 100 and the percent ages being by weight. The stabilizer is used for thickening and stabilizing oil in water emuisions containing milk solids. It is added, with agita tion, to the water at room temperature, or to the milk solids containing water mix at 50 C, after which the milk solids not fat in the room temperature water procedure , butter fat, and other ingredients are added. The mix develops viscosity after processing resulting in a smooth flowing thickened mix.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method of preparing an oil in water emulsion containing milk solids, in which the fat is used at 3 40 0 by weight of the total emulsion, which comprises adding while agitating about 0.2 to about 1.6 , by weight of the total emulsions, of a gum blend, each gum being added in amounts by weight, based on 100 gum blend, of 27 90 8 66 algin and 0.5 30 xanthan gum either a to water containing the milk solids at about 450C or above, or b to water, followed by adding the milk solids and then heating to about 500C then adding the fat at about 500C followed by pasteurization, homogenization and cooling. 2. A method as claimed in Claim 1 in which the amount of the gums is 0.3 1.0 by weight of the total emulsion. 3. A method as claimed in Claim 2 in which the gum blend, based on lOO, by weight gum, is 68.9 72.9 guar, 23.5 27.5 algin, and 3.4 4.1 xanthan gum. 4. An oil in water emulsion stabilizer comprising a blend of 27 90 guar, 8.66 algin, and 0.5 30 xanthan gum, the amount of each being chosen to total 100 and the percentages being by weight. 5. An oil in water emulsion stabilizer comprising a blend of 68.9 72.9 guar, 23.5 27.3 algin, and 3.4 4.1 xanthan gum, the amount of each being chosen to total 100 and the percentages being by weight.

## Description
PROCESS FOR THICKENING AND STABILIZING OIL IN WATER EMULSIONS CONTAINING MILK SOLIDS AND EMULSION STABILIZES FOR USE THEREIN 31 ends of gums as stabilizers in millr systems have been described, see U.S. 3,996,389 General Mills , teaching guar xanthan gum mixtures. Alginates are widely used in edible liquid systems as thickening agents, see Whistler, Industrial Gums, pp. 56 59 Academic Press, 1973 . Gums provide varying degrees of thickening and stability to food mixes. As the gum concentration increases to obtain greater thickening properties, processing conditions become more difficult.Thickened mixes do not readily flow throngh plate heat exchangers, etc., thereby increasing the opportunity for blown heat exchanger gaskets, plate burn on, or deterioration in flavor of the mix.Resulting mixes can have poor flavor release, as well as lacking smooth flow properties. Although lower gum levels can be used with gel forming gums, the resulting mix will lack desired smoothflowing properties and may also be clabbered or have chunky flow. Thickened cream and recombined cream, a product formed by recombining water, butterfat, and milk solids, can be used as a topping for fruit, enchiladas, vegetables, and meat dishes where a thick consistency is desired for adherence to the product as well as for complementing mouthfecl. A frezen dessert mix in the liquid state requires thickenin and stability ability to provide the deisred properties of overrun, texture, body, and meltdown when later frozen. The present invention provides a method of preparing an oil in water emulsion containing milk solids, in which the fat is used at 3 40 by weight of the total emulsion, which comprises adding while agitating about 0.2 to about l.6by weight of the total emulsions, of a gum blend, each gum being added in amounts by weight, based on 100 gum blend, of 27 90 guar 8 66 algin and 0.5 30 xanthan gum either a to water containing the milk solids at about 450C or above, or b to water, followed by adding the milk solids and then heating to about 500C then adding the fat at about 50 C followed by nasteurization, homogenization and cooling. Particularly preferred amounts of the gums used are 68.9 72.9 guar, 23.5 27.3 sodium alginate, and 3.4 4.1 xanthan gum to total 100 . This system is particularly useful in thickening and stabilizing oil in water emulsions containing milk solids not fat MSNF , such as thickened cream, thickened recombined cream, frozen dessert mix and other emulsions containing water, oil, and milk solids not fat. It can provide a thickened, smooth flowing mix of comparably low viscosity during processing but that obtains its maximum viscosity after processing. This feature facilitates processing and reduces flavor damage while providing a thick emulsion of smooth flow, which is otherwise not obtainable using the individual gums or blends of two gums at comparable levels. The gums are used in a dry blend, which is then added to the mix ingredients. Once the gums have been blended, they are added to a water solution of MSNF at 50 C or above, or to water to which the MSNF are added after the gums are hydrated. The amount of the gum blend is about 0.2 to 1.6 by weight of the total emulsion preferably 0.81.0 by weight for thickened cream and 0.3 0.7 for frozen dessert mix. The NF are used in this product at levels of about 2 15 , and the fat butter fat, vegetable fat, animal fat is used at levels of about 3 40 by weight. While the gum blend is added to the water or water MSNF, the mixture is under agitation. Agitation includes the use of equipment such as food processors or food blenders, including largescale equipment the conditions are those normally employcd to make up dairy type emulsions. While the system is being agitated, the fat is added. To facilitate emulsion formation, temperatures of both the aqueous system and the fat are at about 500C. The mix is pasteurized, homogenized, and cooled. The differentiating features of this stabilizer blend is that total viscosity is not obtained until after cooling and aging and the viscosity obtained is maximized while maintaining smooth flowing properties. More details are given in the following examples, which are illustrative. EXAMPLE 1 RECOMBINED CREAM A blend of 72.5 guar, 25 high viscosity food grade sodium alginate and 3.7N4 xanthan gum was prepared. It was added to water while agitating and hydrated. Milk solids MSNF were than added, and the mixture heated to 500C. The butter fat, previously heated at 500C, and containing a small amount of a mono and diglyceride emulsifier, was then added slowly, while agitation continued. The mixture was then pasteurized at 650C for 30 minutes, homogenized at 13.8 tBa and cooled to 4 60C. The amounts used were Water 70.0 Anhydrous butter oil 21.0 Milk solids not fat MSNF 7.0 Gum Blend 0.8 Mono and diglyceride emulsifier 0.4 TOTAL 99.2 The product was a recombined cream having a smooth body and a mayonnaise type consistency and a eream like taste. EXAMPLE 2 FROZEN DESSERT FORMULATIONS The same blend of gums as in Example 1 was evaluated in 6 , 8 and 13 butter fat frozen dessert formulations, having added sugar and emulsifier. After mixing generally as described in Example 1, viscosity measurements were taken, Brookfield Model RVT, No. 4 spindle, 10 rpm, 70C. FORMULA A 6 butter fat 5.5 MSNF 14 sugar Results At 0.5 gum blend, 2200 mPa.s at o.6 gum blend, 4000 mPa.s. FORMULA B 8 butter fat 8 MSNF 12 sugar Results At 0.3 gum blend, 1600 mPa.s at 0.35 gum blend, 2400 mPa.s at 0.55 gum blend, 4400 mPa.s. FORMULA C 13 butter fat 4.5 MSNF 16 sugar Results At 0.3 gum blend, 3300 niPa.s at 0.4 gum blend, 4800 mPa.s at o. gum blend, 10,000 mPa.s at 0.6 gum blend, 13,600 mPa.s at 0.7 gum blend, 19,000 mPa.s. An alternative method of preparation is to preheat the MSNF and water mix to 500C and then add the gum blend, which will hydrate under continued normal processing conditions.