# A method of rendering material aseptic.

## Abstract
A method of rendering aseptic the interior surface of a polyethylene coated aluminium or paperboard packaging car ton comprises spraying into the cartons water or H₂O₂ to pro vide a layer of water or H₂O₂ about 2µ thick and then irradiating the interior surface with ultraviolet radiation to give a dosage of at least 5 mW sec. cm², the water or H₂O₂ and the radiation having a synergistic sterilizing effect.

## Claims
Claims 1. A method of rendering material aseptic in which the material is contacted with a substance, and the material and the substance are irradiated with ultraviolet radiation, the substance and the radiation having a synergistic sterilizing effect. characterized in that said substance is not toxic in residual quantities. 2 A method according to claim 1, characterized in that said substance is water. S. A A method of rendering material aseptic in which the material is provided with a layer of a substance, and the material and the substance are irradiated with ultraviolet radiation, the substance and the radiation having a synergistic sterilizing effect characterized in that said layer is relatively thin and ne irradiation is relativel intensiv A method according to claim 3 characterized in that said substance is water. 5. A method according to claim 3 or 4, characterized in that said layer is less than 0.1 mm thick. 6. A method according to claim 5, characterized in that said layer is about 2 thick. A method according to an one of claims 3 to , characterized in that the dosage of the irradiation is at least 5 mW sec. cm2 over every part of the material des red to be rendered aseptic. 8 A method of rendering material aseptic, in which material is irradiated with ultraviolet radiation, characterized in that substantially no radiation the v l ngth which has beer substantially changed by the material is reflected by the material.

## Description
A METHOD OF RENDERING MATERIAL ASEPTIC This invention relates to a method of rendering material aseptic. United States Patent 3,566,575 discloses an aseptic packaging machine for forming, aseptically treating, filling and sealing containers while protecting them with a clear air atmosphere after they have been aseptically treated by a bactericide The aseptic treatment is accomplished by a fogging system to provide for total contact by the bactericide with the internal surfaces of the container and includes a drying station for removal of the residual bactericide after the treatment The suggested bactericide is 35 hydrogen peroxide solution H202 . However, this could take a relatively long time, up to several seconds, to give a high kill of bacteria, such as a 1 in 104 survival rate.Then theH2O2 is removed by drying, which is done by jetting hot air down through the open top of the container. Complete removal is desirable since it has been allege that even in small residual quantities, H202 has a toxic effect on human beings. However, the relatively large amount of H202 required is very difficult to dry away completely, especial since the drying is least effective at tne bottom of the container, so that again a relatively sng time is required The total time delays involves therefore seriously jeopardize the commercial ility of the machine. eiss Patent 395,24 , , , fo We re m fruit juiee are incer lig ster lises efore ing by exposing them n a sepo e c amser o a acter cidal radiation by electromagnetic waves er partic es. The radiation sour e s directed with ts window inside the carton to cover all nterna surface. he carton is designed so as to avoid any shadows on itsInside. The radiation source is a gas discharge lamp with a power unit and emits ultraviolet rays of 200 280 nm lesp. 254 nm when a lifter has raised a carton around the quartz tube of the lamp. Addition JV lamps can be arranged in the chamber. If an electron beam is used instead of the UV lamps, lead screens are required to protect the personnel against X rays, produced as a secondary effect. A preferred material for the cartons is polystyrene foam, strengthened by a surface coating of a homogeneous plastic. The raising of the cartons one after another around the quartz tube results in either a very low speed of horizontal advance of the carton or a very short time of exposure of the carton interior to the radiation. Moreover, any carton made by folding sheet material is liable to have among its folds shadows where the bacteria are not exposed to the radiation. In an article in the Journal of Applied Bacteriology 1979, 47, 263 269, entitled The Combined Effect ofHydrogen Peroxide and Ultraviolet Irradiation on BacterialSpores by Bayliss and Waites, it is suggested that hydrogen peroxide solution combined ith ultraviolet radiation be used to sterilize packaging for aseptic filling. This article particularly discloses that it is possible to obtain an especially strong bactericidal effect at low concentrations of H202 in the solution. We believe that the action of killing microorganisms in this way is linked to the breakdown of hydrogen peroxide into hydroxyl radicals by the ultraviolet radiation According to one aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of rendering material aseptic in which the material is contacted with a substance, and the material and the substance are irradiated with ultraviolet radiation the substance and the radiation cavIng synergisti sterilizing effect, characterized in that said substance is not toxic in residual quantities, The use o such substances has the advantages o obviating the risk of any toxic effects and thus of avoiding ant, need to remove any residual quantities the substance from the material. such substance can be water, for example. According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method of rendering material aseptic in which the material is provided with a layer of a subst and the material and the substance are irradiated with ultraviclen radiation the substance and the radiart n having a synergistie sterilizing effect, characterized in that said layer is relatively thin and the irradiation is relatively intensive. The substance can be hydrogen peroxide solution or water, for example. In a preferred embodiment, the layer consists of droplets of H202 or water. Particularly, the layer 5 less than 0.1 mm thick, for example about 2u thick. c believe that such a relatively thin layer as he advant age that the droplets do not shelter to a substantial extent from the ultraviolet radiation the organisms to be killed. The dosage of the irradiation is advantageously at least 5 mW sec. cm2 over every part of the material desired to be rendered aseptic, so giving a relative high dosage. According to a further aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method of rendering material aseptic, in which the material is irradiated with ultraviolet radiation, characterized in that substantially no radiation the wavelength of which has been substantially changed by the material is reflected by the material. We believe that such lack of change in the wavelength of the radiation is of importance, since there is a particular wavelength usually 254 nmj at which the radiation is most lethal, so that if there is reflected radiation of a substantially different wavelength, the method is less effective. In order that the invention may be clearly understood and readily carried into effect, examples thereof will now be described. Experiments have been carried out to ascertain the effect of various treatments on microbial populations, particularly bacterial spores on the interior surfaces litre cartons of dimensions 245 mm. 70 mm x 70 mm. interior surfaces of wo of the cartons being of colyethylene coated aluminium and of another two being of olyethylene coated paperboard. Ultraviolet radiation was provided by a hlgn intensityUV C germicidal lamp UVC 13 70 produced by Brown, Bcveri Cie of Baden. The lamp was so situated relative .o the arton that the lowest dosage of any part of the interior surface of the carton was 5 mW sec. cm2 with a 10 second exposure of the interior surface. Prepared suspensions of the test organisms ere sprayed into the cartons by means of an atomizing nozzle. An inoculum containing spores of Bacillus subtilis and of 107 cells ml was sprayed for 0.5 sec.o produce uniform inoculation of the interior surface. An atomizing nozzle was used to spray H2O2 solution into the cartons at ambient temperature. 0.1 ml of H202 n 1 w v solution was sprayed for 0.6 sec., to give anH2O2 layer thickness of about 2 . Water was also sprayed into the cartons in a similar manner. The following data were obtained TABLE ITreatment Log reduction in no. of survivors in cartons Organism of inoculum Polyethylene coated Polyethylene coated spores of B. subtilis aluminium interion paperboard interion cartons cartons Experi Experi Experi Experi ment I ment II ment III ment IVNone 0 0 0 0Hydrogen peroxide solution alone 0.1 0.1 0.1 0Ultraviolet radiation alone 1.2 1.1 3.0 3.3Ultraviolet radiation water 2.9 1.5 5.3 3.8 Ultraviolet radiation hydrogen peroxide solution 3.6 3.3 5.3 4.9 We believe that i reflection from the aluminium in the polyethylene coated aluminium interio cartons s substantionly prevented by some means, then the loss of effectiveness in the treatment of such cartons is substantionly obviated. Fur er experiments produces the following data for po ng coated paperboar interio cartons TABLE II e tion achieved by veri re treatments in the num er iable Bacillus sub s s res s raye into the Mean log10 reduction in cfu. carton control mean control colony count with countOccasion cfu U.V. C Double Standard ydrogen carton alone distilled hard water berowide water U.V. C U.V. C U.V. C 1 1.1x108 2.81 4.17 3.15 2.43 3.31 3.35 5.46 2.33 4.45 3.28 4.48 2 1.6x107 2.71 3.18 3.00 4. 2.93 3.22 3.00 4.11 .3 1.4x107 2.92 3.11 2.83 4.32 2.72 3.16 2.87 4.70 3.04 3.07 2.89 3.88 4 1.2x107 3.10 4.10 3.78 2.97 4.22 4.13 4.12 3.15 4.47 4.04 4.47 5 1.4x107 3.11 4.54 3.95 4.50 3.37 4.26 3.67 4.72 3.29 4.89 3.83 5.00 6 8.0x106 2.41 3.38 3.00 3.75 2.51 3.20 2.91 Z.45 3.21 3.05 3.63 Overall mean reduction 10 2.84 3.73 3.32 4.37Overall standard deviation 0.326 0.629 0.454 0.486 The present invention is particularly usable in the machine of our Patent Application No. 79302970.3 The desired, lethal effect on bacteria of the combined use of H2O2 and UV has been found to be consistently achieved even at very low H2O2 concentrations e.g. down to 0.05 H2O2 solution. Thus residual H2O2 can in any case be made very low, without any serious detriment to the bactericidal effect.