# Apparatus for detecting the end of a magnetic tape.

## Abstract
Apparatus including a magnetic tape 4 having transpa rent lead tapes connected at both ends thereof which extends between a feed reel 1 and a take up reel 3 in a cassette 1 a light receiving elpment 36 is incorporated into a positioning pole 7 located in said cassette 1 when the cassette 1 is in an operative position, whereas a light emitting element 38 is provided outside the cassette 1 at a point opposite to said light receiving element 36 and across said magnetic tape 4 interlaid between these two elements 36, 38 . In this way, the two elements 36, 38 are adapted to detect the lead tape at the end of said magnetic tape 4 .

## Claims
Claims 1. Apparatus for a cassette recorder for detecting the end of magnetic tape 4 having transparent lead tapes 9 connected at both ends thereof, which tape 4 extends between a feed reel 2 and a take up reel 3 of a cas sette 1 , characterized in that the apparatus includes one of a light receiving or a light emitting element 36, 38 located in said cassette 1 when the cassette 1 is in an operative position and the other of a light emitt ing or a light receiving element 38, 36 located on the apparatus outside the cassette 1 , the magnetic tape 4 interrupting the light path between the two elements 36, 38 , the arrangement being such that the light path is restored when a lead tape 9 enters the light path to thereby provide an indication of the end of the tape 4 . 2. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1. characterized in that said indication is used to initiate operation of a stop mechanism to stop tape transport. 3. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 or 2, characterized in that said one of the elements 36, 38 is located in a positioning pole 7 mounted on the apparatus and serv ing also to locate the cassette 1 when the cassette 1 is in an operative position. 4. Apparatus as claimed in claim 3 further including a re ceiving plate 5 on which the cassette 1 is locatable, the receiving plate 5 being pivotable to locate on a base table 6 to thereby locate the cassette 1 in the operative position, the base table 6 having secured thereto a U shaped mounting piece 33 , one of the limbs of which comprises said positioning pole 7 , the other limb comprising an upstanding portion 33a carrying the other of said elements 36, 38 . 5. Apparatus as claimed in claim 3 or 4, characterized in that two positioning poles 7 are provided each carry ing one of the elements 36, 38 and being associated with a respective other element 38, 36 to thereby pro vide indications of the end of respective ends of the tape 4 .

## Description
Apparatus for detecting the end of a rr.aonetic tape This invention relates to a device for detecting the end of a magnetic tape in a cassette. The primary object of this invention is to provide a device capable of detecting the tape end surely and rapidly by means of a light emitting element and a light receiving one. According to the present invention there is provided apparatus for a cassette recorder for detecting the end of magnetic tape having transparent lead tapes connected Åat both ends thereof, which tape extends between a feed reel and a take up reel of a cassette, the apparatus including one of a light receiving, or a light emitting element located in said cassette when the cassette is in an operative position and the other of a light emitting or a light receiving element located on the apparatus outside the cassette, the magnetic tape interrupting the light path between the two elements, the arrangement being such that the light path is restored when a lead tape enters the light path to thereby provide an indication of the end of the tape. An illustrated embodiment of the invention will now be described by way of example with reference to the accompany ing drawings, in which Fig. 1 is a fragmentary sectional plan view of part of a video tape recorder equipped with a device for detecting the tape end according to the present invention Fig. 2 is a view taken along the arrow line II II in Fig. Fig. 3 is a sectional view taken along the arrow line 111 111 in Fig. 1 Fig. 4 is a plan view of a cassette Fig. 5 is a plan view showing the bottom of the cassette Fig. 6 is side elevational view of the cassette Fig. 7 is a perspective view showing the way in which a lead tape engages with the video tape Fig. 8 is a perspective view showing the way in which a tape pad is fixed to the band Fig. 9 is a plan view of the receiving plate Fig. 10 is a plan view of the base table and, Fig. 17 is an enlarged sectional view of the main part of the base table taken along the arrow line XI Xl in Fig. 10. The reference numeral 1, represents a cassette which contains a video tape 4 extending between a feed reel 2 and a take up reel 3. The reference numeral 5 denotes a receiving plate on which the cassette 1 is mounted for insertion into the operating position, the remote end 51 of the plate being pivotally fixed to the video tape recorder chassis so that the plate may pivot between operative and loading positions. The numeral 6 denotes a base table to which poles 7 7 for accurately positioning the cassette and said receiving plate are integrally secured. Referring to Figs. 4 to B in addition to Fig. 1, it will be seen that the cassette 1 comprises two case sections Ia 1 Ib which are securely connected to each other four small screws 8 . The cassette contains a video tape 4 having transparent lead tapes 9 connected toboth ends thereof, respectively, as shown in Fig. 7 , and extending between the feed reel 2 and the take up reel 3 which are rotatably mounted in the cassette 1 . The lead tapes 9 are fixedly connected to the reels 2, 3 , at cutout parts thereof, respectively, by means of shaped snaps 10 Splines 2b , 3b to be in mesh with the feeding reels shaft 12 and the take up reel shaft 13. , respectively, are integrally formed within a cylindrical parts ,2a , 3a respectively, of said reels 2. , 3 , the shafts 12, 13 passing through round holes 11 , 11 g on the lower case ib Further,the lower case 1b is provided with a plurality of tape guides 16 , 17 , 18 , 19 in addition to the holes .14., 15 through which the positioning poles 7 , 7 , pass. Still further, the lower case Ib is provided with tape pads, 20 , 21. , 22. and a flexible band 23. having an elongate aperature 23a is extended between the pad 20 and on upstanding rib 7e see Fig. 8 of the case lb A lid 24 is pivotally fixed to the open part on one side of the cassette 1 , and apertures 25 , through which a ray of ligttpasses from a light emitting diode to a phototransistor to be described later , are provided on either side where the upper case la and the lower case lb are in contact with each other. Now,referring to Fig. 9, the construction of the receiving plate 5 will be described as follows The receiving plate 5 consists of the horizontal portion 5a which supports the bottom of the lower case Ib and upstanding portions Sb , Sb which support both sides of the cassette 1 . The horizontal portion 5a is provided with round holes 26 , 26 of large diameter feed reel drive shaft and the take up reel drive shaft, respectively, pass round holes 27 , 27 of small diameter for receiving the positioning poles 7 , .7 , and square holes 29 , .29 for receiving the projecting pieces 28 , 28 see Fig. 10 which serve for opening the lid 24 of the cassette 1 as the cassette is inserted. Apertures 30 , 30 for passing a ray of light from a light emitting diode to a phototransistor to be described later are provided in said upstanding portions 5b , 5b , and a latch 31 for securely holding the receiving plate 5 on the base table 6 is integrally formed on one of the upstanding portions sub., ,5b Next, referring to Figs. 10 and 11, the construction of the base table 6 ad peripheral portion thereof will be described. This base table 6 is provided with holes 32 , 32 of large diameter for receiving the feed reel shaft 12 and the take up reel shaft 13 , respectively, as well as the projecting portions 28 , 28. for opening the lid, which areformed by cutting and bending parts of this table Two U shaped mounting pieces 33 with which the positioning poles 7 , 7 are integrally formed, are secured to this table 6 with small screws 34 z A light receiving element with lead wire 5 , e.g., a phototransistor 36 is incorporated into the positioning pole 7 and a light emitting element with lead wire 37 , e.g. a light emitting diode ,38 is fixed to the upstanding portion 33a of each piece 33 opposing said transistor 36 Incidentally, the numeral 39 in Fig. 1 denotes a hook for catching the latch 31. of the receiving plate 5 After the cassette 1 is set at a fixed position on the receiving plate 5 and when the plate S. is pivoted tc an operative position on the base table 6 for playing a tape, the hook 39 engages with the latch 31 for keeping the plate 5, down on the table 6 and causing the projections 28 , 28 to touch the lid 24 of the cassette 1 ,the lid 24 therefore, being made open as shown in rig. 2.Through said holes 32 and 26 , the feed reel shaft 12 and the take up reel shaft 13. engage the cylindrical parts ,2a and ,3a respectively. Also, as shown in Fig. 3, the positioning poles 7 7 engage in the cassette 1 through a holes 27 , 15 and holes 27, 14 respectively. Thus, when the cassette 1 is set in the operative position on the video tape recorder, light from the light emitting diode 38 is cast within the case I through the holes 30 25 but, when the magnetic tape is present, doesn t reach the phototransistor 36 since the ray of light is interrupted by the video tape 4 part of the magnetic surface . When the video tape 4 is completely taken up from one reel 2 to the other 3 or rewound from one 3 to the other 2 and, as a result, no strip of magnetic tape remains on any one of the reels 2 3 , the transparent lead tape 9 refer to Fig. 7 connected to the ends of the video tape 4 is exposed to the path of light extending between the light emitting diode 38 and the phototransistor 36 and, accordingly, light from the light emitting diode 38 reaches the phototransistor 36 through, in turn, the holes 30 , 25 , and the transparent lead tape 9 . The phototransistor is connected through its lead 35 to an electrical circuit which can provide an indication and in this way, an end of the video tape is detected. When the tape end is detected in which way, detection output of the phototransistor 36 is, preferably, amplified for actuating an automatic stop mechanism which causes the video tape 4 to stop automatically. Therefore, a device according to this invention is of such construction that a video tape 4 having both ends thereof connected to the transparent lead tapes 9 is extended between the feed reel 2 and the take up reel 3 in the cassette 1 , a light receiving element, e.g., a phototransistor 36 is incorporated into the positioning pole .7 to be inserted into said cassette 1 when the cassette 1 is set at a fixed position, and alight emitting element, e .g. a light emitting diode 38 , opposing the lightreceiving element is provided on the base table 6 outside the cassette 1 , these two elements 36 , 38. being adapted to detect .he lead tape 9 connected to said video tape. In this way, the tape end can be detected surely and rapidly by the above two elements 36 , 38 oppositing with each other and automatic stopping of the tape 4 by utilising the output from these elements is also ensured. Said light receiving element, i.e. the phototransistor 36 is incorporated into the positioning pole 7 and accordingly requires no extra space for installation. This also produces a variety of advantages such as enabling easy incorporation of the elements into existing magnetic recording apparatus, i.e., a video tape recorder. It is a matter of course that the same performance effect can be obtained even if the positions of th phototransistor 36 and the li ht emitting diode 98 are interchanged from that described.