# Methods of making multifilament superconductors.

## Abstract
A method of making a multifilament superconductor includes mechanically working a matrix of normally conduct ing metal in which cut lengths of fine diameter superconduct tor precursor wire are embedded.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method of making a multifilament superconductor characterised by the steps of dispersing discrete short lengths of superconductor precursor wire in a matrix of normally conducting metal to form a composite body, extruding the composite body to elongate while reducing the transverse cross section of the body and further elongating the extruded product by mechanical working. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1, in which the discrete lengths of superconductor precursor wire are individually sheathed in normally conducting metal and the composite body is formed by compacting a plurality of sheathed lengths of superconductor precursor wire. 3. A method as claimed in claim 1, in which the discrete lengths of superconductor precursor wire are dispersed in a matrix of normally conducting metal powder and the composite body is formed by compacting. 4. A method as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 3 in which prior to extrusion, the length of each discrete superconductor precursor wire does not exceed 20 of the length of the extrusion billet. 5. A method as claimed in any preceding claim, in which the super conductor precursor wire is selected from NbTi and NbZr and the normally conducting metal is Cu. 6. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4, in which the superconductor precursor wire Is an intermetallic compound of the type A3B, consisting of wire of metal A into which a metal B is introduced by external diffusion. 7. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4, in which the superconductor precursor wire is an intermetallic compound of the type A3B, the wire being of metal A whilst metal B constitutes a component of the normally conducting metal powder and the component A3B is formed by reaction heat treatment after the product has been reduced to its final cross sectional dimension. 8. A method as claimed in claim 6 or 7, in which metal A is Nb and metal B is Sn or metal is V and metal B is Ga. 9. A multifilament superconductor made according to the method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 8 in which each filament is less than 1 micron diameter. 10. A multifilament superconductor as claimed in claim 9 in which the filaments constitute between 10 and 70 of the total cross sectional area of the superconductor.

## Description
METHODS OF MAKING MULTIFILAMENT SUPERCONDUCTORS This invention relates to composite superconducting wires of the type in which many very fine filaments of a metal, metal alloy or intermetallic compound having zero electrical resistance at or below a specified cryogenic temperature are embedded as a distributed array in a matrix of a non superconducting material, usually a metal or metal alloy of normal electrical conductivity. Representrative prior art composite superconducting wires of this type may have a diameter of the order of 0.3 mm and contain from several hundred to several thousand distributed filaments of superconducting material such as NbTi orNb3Sn embedded in a matrix of Cu or a copper alloy. Composite superconducting wire characterised by multiple longitudinally extending strands of high field superconducting alloy in a surrounding matrix of copper or similar good electrical and thermal conductor, has found increasing application for use in the coils of superconducting magnets capable of producing extremely high magnetic fields. Composite superconducting wire of the foregoing type is typically produced by initial preparation of a billet comprised of a copper extrusion can which contains a plurality of close packed hexagonally formed rod inserts. Each such rod insert may typically consist of one or more rods of a Type II superconductor, such as a niobium titanium alloy, embedded in a matrix of high purity OFHC copper, the unit being drawn to a cohesive hexagonal bar before insertion into the extrusion can. The can containing the packed rods is suitably sealed at its ends and thereupon subjected to extrusion or swaging and drawing operations, which gradually reduce the diameter of the billet and of the contained inserts. The final very small diameter fine wire achieved by this technique contains the individual strands of the superconductor alloy in the surrounding copper matrix. In the case of several of the more significant high fieldType II conductors, the procedure outlined above m ay not be readily employed. In particular, intermetallic compounds such as V3Ga andNb3Sn, which are among the presently recognised more useful Type II superconductors, are so brittle in nature, that the drawing processes are ineffective in working them. Indeed, taking recognition of this problem, it has been proposed to prepare composite superconducting wire based upon such high field intermetallic Type II superconductors, by preparing a billet structure similar to that described above, but utilising as the rod inserts vanadium or niobium surrounded by a matrix of Ga bronze or of Sn bronze.Pursuant to this approach the billet is appropriately reduced, in a manner similar to that indicated for the Nt Ti composite wire, and after the desired fine diameter composite wire is achieved, the resultant product is subjected to a prolonged heating schedule which serves to diffuse the gallium or tin into the central conductor to form the desired superconducting alloy thereat.In a modification of this specie the matrix may be pure Cu instead of bronze and the Sn or Ga added by diffusion from the outside of the composite, after it has achieved its final diameter. Superconducting wire made as above described may contain thousands of superconducting filaments in a composite conductor of no more than 0.3 mm diameter However, the intent in such conductors is to provide a discrete predetermined number of continuous filaments. An alternative that has been explored is a composite superconductor in which an indeterminate number of smaller and more closely packed discontinuous superconductive filaments are formed by mechanical elongation of a rod, wire or strip of normal conductor containing dispersed inclusions of superconducting material.An example oç sucf an approach is disclosed in US patent 3 815 224 in which a porous strip of Nb is infiltrated with Sn and thereafter mechanically elongated. ,n another versions a mixture of superconducting and non superconducting powders are compacted and drawn. A more sophisticated approach is that disclosed by Tsuei in Science, Vol 180, 6 April 1973, p 57 by Tsuei in AEC Research and Development Report No. 47, under Contract No.AT 04 3 822, dated October 1973, and entitled SuperconductingComposite of Copper and Niobium A Metallurgical Approach and byTsuei, Suenaga and Sampson in AEC Research and Development Report No.49, under Contract No. AT 04 3 822, dated December 1973, and entitled Critical Current Density of a Superconducting Copper Base AlloyContaining Nb3Sn Filaments . In this method, a superconducting phase or a superconducting precursor phase is formed as a distributed precipitate in a normally conducting ductile matrix by chill casting.Subsequent mechanical reduction and heat treatment produces elongated superconducting Inclusions tnat function much the same as the continuous superconducting filaments previously described. From this and other work, it is known that high density of very fine discontinuous superconducting filaments in a normally conducting metal matrix provide a useful stabilised superconductor that appears to have some advantages over the conventional continuous filaments product with a finite predetermined number of filaments. The invention as claimed is intended to provide a new form of stabilised multifilament superconductor having improved electrical and mechanical properties. Another aim of tnis invention is to provide a method of making a multifilament superconductor comprising a large number of superconducting filaments d,stributed in a matrix of .j ,a conductor. With the method of the invention, conductors having several million equivalent superconducting filaments can be made. In this specification the tern superconducting precursor material is used to describe metals and alloys that themselves become superconducting at cryogenic temperatures and also to describe metals such as Nb or Y that can be reacted with another metal, such as Sn orGa, to form a superconducting compound. In accordance with the invention, discrete short lengths of fine filaments of superconductiny precursor material are dispersed in a normal conductor in an extrusion billet. This is extruded and further elongated by rolling and or wire drawing and, where necessary, heat treated to produce the final conductor. The short length filaments may be cut lengths of wire of a superconducting material such as NbTi or of a superconductor precursor such as Nb or V which may be reacted with Sn or Ga in the finished product to form Nb3Sn or V3Ga. The normal conductor, usually Cu or Al, may be in powder form which is compacts around the short, randomly dispersed filaments to form a monolithic matrix or it may be in the form or a tube or spiral wrap sheathing each filament.During subsequent compacting and extrusion, the adjacent sections of tube or wrap are consolidated into a monolithic matrix. Several species are described herein. Embodiments of the invention will now be described, by way of example, reference being made to the Figures of the accompanying drawings in which Figure I is a flow sheet illustrating a first method of manufacturing a multifilament superconductor according to the present invention and Figure 2 is a flow sheet illustrating an alternati Ye method of manufacturing a multifilament superconductor according to the present invention. Referring first to Figure 1, a 3.05 m length of Nb rod of 3.5 mm diameter is Inserted into a Cu tube having a wall thickness of 0.89 mm and an outside diameter of 6.35 mm. This composite rod is then reduced in diameter and elongated by drawing, swaging ani , or roiling to produce a Cu sheathed ,Yd wire with an outside diameter wf tor.62 ii . and an Nb core diameter of 0.35 mm. This fine diameter corn jsit wire is then cut into 6.2 mm lengths. The ratio of length to dia. zer of the individual core wire segments should be in the range from 10 to 130. Maximum acceptable diameter and length for the cut core wire segments depends on the ultimate extrusion billet size, that is, on the amount of reduction that will follow. As a guide however, maximum wire diameter should be about 2.5 mm and maximum segment length about 50 mm.These short lengths of sheathed wire are loose ly and randomly placed in a suitable mold and compacted in a press to form a composite block consisting of short lengths of Nb in a Cu matrix which is substantially free of voids. Within the capacity of the press, this compressed block formed from the short lengths of Cu sheathed Nb wire can be any desired size and shape. Typically, wafers of circular or hexagonal cross section are formed having a diameter or equivalent dimension in the case of hexagonal form of from 25.4 mm to 190.5 mm. As a specific example, a cylindrical block 19cm in diameter and 7.6 cm thick may be formed under a pressure of 10,000 psi. As the next process step, these blocks must be extruded to rod. This is conveniently done by inserting a stack of five such blocks into a cylindrical extrusion can. A suitable extrusion can may be made of Cu, have a 1.3 cm wall thickness and 20.3 cm inside diameter cavity of sufficient length to receive a stack of five thick blocks.The extrusion billet containing the composite blocks is then sealed by welding on a copper cap and evacuated through a pigtail as is well known in the art. The length of each discrete short length of wire embedded in the matrix should not exceed 20 and preferably should not exceed 10 of the extrusion billet length. The billet is extruded at 0 between 5000C and 1000 C to reduce its cross sectional area by a factor of from 16 to over 100. Typically, the 22.8 cm O.D. billet described above is extruded at 10000C and an area reduction of 100 to produce 2.3 cm diameter rod.During the extrusion step the Cu to CuInterfaces are erased to form a monolithic Cu matrix in t. ich the now elongated but discontinuous Nb filaments are distributec The 2.3 cm diameter rod may then be rolled or drawn to wire, for example, 0.30 mm diameter. The resultant containined No filaments are generally axially orientated and have individual filament diameters of the order of 0.5 microns. The core of the wire section of the wire exclusing the original billet wall contains 31 Nb and the equivalent of about 100,000 Nb filaments. The overall area percentage of Nb including the billet wall is 27 . This 0.30 mm composite wire is next coated with a 0.025 mm thick layer of Sn which may be applied by any conventional tinning technique. The tinned wire is then heat treated as is well known in the superconductor art to cause the Sn to diffuse into the Cu matrix and react with the contained Nb filaments to form Nb3Sn, the superconducting compound, in the final conductor. If a final conductor having even more filaments is desired, the tinned and unreacted conductor can be cut and bundled in a second extrusion can. However, before extrusion, the billet is heat treated to cause the Sn to diffuse into the Cu to form Cu Sn bronze. The temperature and time is selected so as not to cause reaction of the Nb and Sn. The billet is now essentially Nb filaments in a Cu Sn bronze matrix. The billet is then extruded to rod as before but at an extrusion temperature of about 4000C to 5000C to prevent Nb3Sn formation. The rod is then worked to the desired final wire diameter with Intermediate anneals as necessary to prevent undue work hardening of the bronze. The final diameter wire is then heat treated for a time and at a temperature to cause formation of Nb3Sn on the Nb filaments, as is well known in the art. Still other variations of the species of Figure 1 are shown as options in which the composite fine wire is tinned before being cut, compacted and extruded. Further description of these variations is believed unnecessary, The principle point of novelty in this invention is the extremely large number of very fine, but discontinuous, filaments in the final product resulting from the use of the discrete short lengths of wire as the source of filaments. The invention is not limited to superconducting materials of the A35 type nor is it limited to the form or composition of the starting matrix material. For example, the ultimate superconducting filaments may be NbTi which may be the composition of the original rods inserted in the Cu tube of the above example.In such case, no Sn layer is required and no diffusion or reaction step is required. Instead of the Cu tube, the Cu matrix material may be provided as Cu foil wrapped around the Nb or NbTi rod.In a more radical departure from the example first described in detail above, the Cu matrix material for the NbTi conductor or the Cu and Sn for the Nb3Sn conductor can be provided as metal powders. An illustrative example follows. Referring to Figure 2, a suitable starting material is Nb 45 Ti t556 in rod form. This is reduced by drawing or the like to fine wire diameter and cut to shirt lengths. These short leng ths of fine wire are then uniformly dispersed in a mass of Cu powder which is then compacted to a substantially void free composite body. One or more of these compacted bodies are then inserted in a Cu extrusion can and extruded to form composite rod, which is then mechanically reduced to the ultimate fine wire diameter. As before, an option is cutting and bundling and extruding a second time for even more and finer filaments. When Nb3Sn conductor is to be made by this technique fromNb rod, mixed Cu and Sn powder may be substituted for the Cu powder and the final product is reaction heat treated. An almost endless number of alternatives will immediately suggest themselves to the superconductor designer once it is recognised that the very large number of discontinuous filaments attainable using chopped wires as the source of such filaments perform at least as well, if not better than, the more finite number conventionally derived from harder to fabricate continuous filament precursors. With the method of the present invention, conductors having several million equivalent superconducting filaments are easy to obtain.