# Apparatus and method for measuring the toxicity of pollutants to aquatic living organisms.

## Abstract
An apparatus and method for measuring the toxicity of pollutants to aquatic living organisms in which the effects of a presumed toxic substance on one or more aquatic living organisms are simultaneously measured at different concen trations of the toxic substance in a continuous liquid flow, the apparatus comprising tanks 1,2 for storing the toxic substance in liquid form and unpolluted dilution water, two headers 3 connecting the tanks to a peristaltic pump 4 , the pump being adapted by having flexible tubes 5 of different diameters simultaneously to supply preselected differently proportioned amounts of toxic liquid and dilution water to tanks 12 a , 12 b , 12 c containing the organisms to be tested. The apparatus is suitable for use in the laboratory and also in the field for testing, for example, river water, lake water and industrial waste.

## Claims
Claims 1. An apparatus for measuring the toxicity of pollutants to aquatic living organisms in which the effects of a presumed toxic substance on one or more aquatic living organisms are simultaneously measured at different concentrations of the toxic substance in a continuous liquid flow, which apparatus comprises a tank for storing the toxic substance in liquid form and a tank for storing unpolluted dilution water, two headers connecting the respective tanks to a peristaltic pump, the pump being adapted by having flexible tubes of different diameters simultaneously to supply preselected, differently proportioned amounts of toxic liquid and dilution water, and means for mixing and distributing said differently proportioned amounts of toxic liquid and dilution water through siphons to tanks containing the organisms to be tested. 2. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the flow of the mixture of toxic liquid and dilution water for each species of organism to be tested is regulated by electrovalves controlled by timers. 3. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 which is adapted to measure the effect of a toxic liquid at a plurality of concentrations on a plurality of different organisms. 4. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 adapted to test one species of organism simultaneously at seven different concentrations of toxic liquid and a control reference of dilution water. 5. An apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3 which is adapted to test two different specifies of organism simultaneously at six different concentrations of toxic liquid and a control reference of dilution water. 6. An apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3 which is adapted to test three different species simultaneously at four different concentrations of toxic liquid and a control reference of dilution water. 7. A method of measuring the toxicity of pollutants to aquatic living organisms which method comprises operating an apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims and observing the effects on the organisms in the tanks containing them.

## Description
APPARATUS AND SETIfOD FOR MPASURINC THE TOXICITY OF POLLUTANTS TO AQUATIC LIVING ORGANISMS The present invention relates to an apparatus and method for measuring the toxicity of pollutants to aquatic living organisms,and in particular to a continuous water flow apparatus and method for measuring simultaneously the effect of a presumed toxic substance in different concentrations on one or more species of living organism. The Applicants are aware of United Kingdom PatentSpecification No. 1318911. In accordance with the invention an apparatus has been devised which permits the perfolmance of toxicity tests not only in the laboratory, but also in the field, to test, for example, river waters, lake waters and industrial wastes. According to the present invention there is provided an apparatus for measuring the toxicity of pollutants to aquatic living organisms in which the effects of a prcsuracd toxic substance on one or more aquatic living organisms are simultaneously measured at different concentrations of the toxic substance in a continuous liquid flow, which apparatus comprises a tank for atoring the toxic substance in liquid form and a tank for storing unpolluted dilution water, two headers connecting the respective tanks to a peristaltic pump, the pump being adapted by having flexible tubes of different diameters simultaneously to supply preselected differently proportioned amounts of toxic liquid and dilution water, and means for mixing and distributing said differently proportioned amounts of toxic liquid and dilution water through siphons to tanks containing the organisms to be tested. The invention also provides a method of measuring the toxicity of pollutants to aquatic living organisms which method comprises operating the above apparatus and observing the effects on the organisms in the tanks containing them. Although the following description refers to three different species of organism studied in four different concentrations of toxic liquid and in clean water, the flexibility of the apparatus of the invention permits a study also of, for. example, one kind of organism with seven different concentrations of toxic liquid with two replicates or, for example, two kinds of organism with six different concentrations of toxic substance at the same time. The organisms used as examples in this description are those commonly used in toxicology tests, that is s Daphnia magna Crustacca , Biomphalaria glabrata . Mollusca and theBrachydanio rcrio Pisces . The operation characteristics of the apparatus have been chosen in such a way as to make it possible to carry out the toxicity tests in conditions of continuous flow with more than one species at a time, and with different concentrations of the toxic liquid. The concentrations of the toxic liquid used in experiments described were 100 , 75 , 50 , and 258 of the initial concentration of the toxic liquid used, and clean water, otherwise called the control reference. An embodiment of an apparatus according to the invention will now be described by way of example with reference to the accompanying drawings in which Figure 1 is a general diagram of the apparatus Figure 2 is vertical section of a header used in the apparatus Figure 3 a is a horizontal section through the means for mixing and distributing proportional amounts of toxic liquid and dilution water in the apparatus, referred to hereafter in this description as a diffuser Figures 3 b and 3 c are vertical sections atA A and B B of Figure 3 a . Figure 4 a is a vertical section through a siphon of the apparatus Figure 4 b is a plan view of the siphon of Figure 4 a Figure 5 a is a horizontal section of a tank suitable for containing an aquatic organism of the Daphnia typc Figure 5 b is a vertical section of the tank ofFigure 5 a Figure 6 is a vertical section of a tank suitable for containing an aquatic organism of the Biomphalaria type and Figure 7 is a vertical section of a tank suitable for containing an aquatic organism of the Brachydanio type. Referring firstly to Figure 1, the diagram is divided into three sections an upper section in which the desired dilution of toxic liquid takes place a middle section, in which the solutions of various concentrations of toxic substance are separated and distributed to the several tanks containing the different species of organism which are in the bottom section of the diagram. In the upper section of the diagram there is the tank 1 containing the original solution of the toxic substance and tank 2 for the unpolluted dilution water.Each of these two tanks are connected to its own header 3 Figure 2 . Each header is in turn connected to a peristaltic pump 4 where the dilution of the original solution of substance to the desired concentration of solution is obtained by means of a set of tubes with different di eters. Referring to Figure 2, each header, which has a cylindrical form, is fed at the bottom respectively with water or toxic solution. Four exit tubes 28, in the upper part of the header permit the flow of the liquid to the peristaltic pump. The solution to be tested and the dilution water flow into a mixing unit or diffuser 5, shown in Figures 3 a , 3 b and 3 c , and shown schematically in Figure 1 by reference numeral 5, for the five different concentrations.In Figure 3 are shown the diffuser 5 composed of five mixing chambers 6 in which water and toxic solution are mixed according to the desired selected concentration.The mixing chambers placed at the extremities of the diffuser 5 have only one entry tube 7, because they are intended respectively for the full concentration of 100 of original toxic solution or only water 0 concentration of original toxic solution . The three exit tubes 8 are for the three species of living organism to be studied in 1008 concentration and water respectively.The pairs of entry tubes 9, 10 and 11 of the other mixing chambers 6, coming from the peristaltic pump, serve to mix the toxic solution and dilution water at 75t, 508 and 25t rcspectively of concentration of toxic substance in said chamber 6 and, through the three exit tubes, respectively 9 , 10 and 11 solutions of said concentrations of original toxic solution, regulated by electrovalves 22, feed the tanks 12 a , 12 b and 12 c containing respectively the three species of organism. As shown in the bottom section ofFigure 1, there are five series of tanks corresponding to the five different concentrations of toxic solution, each series comprising three types of container for the three respective types of organism. Before entering the tanks 12 a , 12 b and 12 c and for a better and more homogeneous distribution in the tanks, the liquid passes through a siphon 23. The flow of the liquid from the exit tubes 8, 9 , 10 and 11 and directed to the tanks 12 a , 12 b and 12 c is controlled by electrovalves 22 which normally are in the off position. The operating time of each electrovalve is adjusted in relation to the quantity of liquid that must reach the tanks 12 a , 12 b and 12 c in relation to the volume needed for a complete turnover of the solution. In fact, the replacement volume varics with the volume and the form of each type of tank. The valves are actuated by three sequentially operating timers, for simplicity not shown. Referring to Figures 4 a and 4 b , the siphons1 one for each tank, are fed at the top through an eccentrically disposed hole 24 in the covcr 25. Each siphon contains two concentric vertical cylinders 26 and 27 through which the liquid flows and enters the tanks 12 a , 12 b and 12 c only when the siphon has been completcly fillcd. The direction of liquid flow through the siphon is shown by arrows. A tank 13 suitable for Daphnia is shown inFigures 5 a and 5 b in horizontal and vertical planes respectively. Each tank 13 contains a double pair of cylinders 14, into which the organisms to be tested are introduced. Two holes, diametrically opposite, one, the larger 15, in the upper and the other 16 in the lower part of each cylinder, channel the flow of the toxic solution into each cylinder and prevent the organisms from reaching the surface. For better regulation of the flow, the solution enters the tank by lapping an inclined wall 17.Furthermore, the four cylinders used in the case of Daphnia, permit four replicated samples to be obtained for each test, and this ovcrcomes one of the main difficulties in interpreting toxicity tests on this species. The tanks 18 or Biomphalaris and 19 for Brachydanio, shown in vertical section in Figures 6 and 7, respectively, are similar in form but different in volume, owing to the different requirements of the two species. Both types of tanks are fitted internally with a vertical wall 20, parallel to one side and near the exit 21 of the tanks, which leaves a passage only a few millimeters high above the bottom of the tank This wall facilitates the mixing of the solution into the tank, inasmuch as it compcls the liquid to flow first from the top down to the bottom, then, during the outflow, from the bottom up to the top.Obviously, the form of the three types of tanks can be modified, in relation to the requirements of other types of organismswhich may be tested in the apparatus of the invention. All of the tanks are placed in a water bath not shown at constant temperature to provide uniform conditions during the tests. The apparatus as hereinbefore described is not limited to the examples given, but may be employed for example for analysing toxic soluble substances, single and mixed, polluted water of rivers and lakes and industrial waste water. in the embodiment described there may be studied in continuous flow and in the same operative conditions, for example three different types of organisms in four different concentrations of toxic substance, or two different types of organisms in six different edneentrations of toxic substance or also.one type of organism in seven different concentrations of toxic substance. The flexibility of the apparatus permits also the variation of the choice of the concentration of the toxic substance by varying the speed of the peristaltic pump and of the diameter of the tubes of the peristaltic pump. As will be readily appreciated by those skillcd in the art other concentrations and different types and numbers of organism may be used in tests with the apparatus of the invention. Furthermore the characteristics of the apparatus are such that it may be easily used both in the laboratory and in the field.