# Catalyst for the preparation of 4 cyanothiazole.

## Abstract
Process for the preparation of 4 cyanothiazole from 4 methylthiazole by the use of an ammoxidation catalyst composed of manganese, chromium and molybdenum oxides in the molecular ratios of Mn

## Claims
CLAIMS 1 An ammoxidation catalyst comprising manganese, chromium and molybdenum oxides in the molecular ratios of MnaCrbNol.OOOx where each of a and b, which are aD1 the same of different, is from 0.02 to 15 and the sum of a and b is not less than 0.8, and x is a number that satisfies the valences of the metallic elements. 2 A catalyst as claimed in claim 1 in which, in the formula, each of a and b is from 0.5 to 4.0 and the sum of a and b is not less than 1.0. 3 A catalyst as claimed in claim 1, that also includes up to 10 by weight of tin as the oxide. 4 A catalyst as claimed in claim 1 or 2, prepared by dissolving soluble salts of manganese, chromium and molybdenum in water, drying the aqueous mixture and calcining the dried material at about 4500C for about 16 hours. 5 A process for preparing a catalyst as claimed in claim 1 comprising dissolving water soluble salts of manganese, chromium and molybdenum in water, evaporating the water, and calcining the resultant dried material. 6 A process as claimed in claim 5 in which the manganese and chromium salts are nitrates and the molybdenum salt is ammonium heptamolybdate. 7 A process as claimed in claim 6 in which thebwater soluble salts also include stannic chloride. 8 A method of preparing 4 cyanothiazole from 4methylthiazole which consists of the catalytic ammoxidation of 4 methylthiazole in the presence of ammonia, oxygen and water and in contact with a catalyst as claimed in claim 1. 9 A method as claimed in claim 8 in which a and b are as defined in claim 2. 10 A method as claimed in claim 8 or 9 in which the catalyst includes up to 10 by weight of tin as the oxide.

## Description
CATAT,YST FOR THE PREPARATION OF 4 CYANOTHIAZOLE One of the problems inherent in an ammoxidation system for making cyanothiazole from 4 methylthiazole in a system using an excess of oxygen in the reactant stream is undesirable combustion of the organic reactant and ammonia to unwanted by products. This, of course, adds to process costs in that more reactant is required to produce a given amount of cyano compound e.g., yields are reduced and in that larger capital investment is required to build a plant for a given capacity. Thus, a reduction in the undesired combustion of ammonia and organic reactant with the attendant yield increase is a desirable objective. The present invention provides a method of preparing 4 cyanothiazole from 4 methylthiazole by catalytic ammoxidation in the presence of ammonia, oxygen and water and in contact with a catalyst of manganese, chromium and molybdenum oxides in the molecular ratios of Mn Cur me 00 x where abl each of a and b, which are the same or different, is from 0.02 to 15 and the sum of a and b is not less than 0.8, and x is a number that satisfies the valences of the metallic elements. The catalyst is also novel and constitutes another embodiment of the invention. It has been found that this novel catalyst is more selective for production of the desired 4 cyanothiazole. Another advantage of using the catalyst and process of the present invention is that an adiabatic or isothermal type reactor can be utilized without any significant decrease in the high selectivity for 4 cyanothiazole so that the process is more economic and more efficient. In a preferred manner of carr ing out the invention, there is passed, as a reactant stream over the novel catalyst, a gaseous mixture comprising 4methylthiazole, ammonia, oxygen and water as steam. This gaseous reactant stream is passed through a reactor containing the improved catalyst at a temperature of from 360 to 4800C. In the formula Mn Cr Mo 0 a b 1.00 x of the novel catalyst, it is preferred that a and b be from 0.5 to 4.0 and the sum of a and b not less than 1.0. If desired, a reaction promoter can be added to the catalyst mixture to improve the activity and selectivity of the catalyst. The preferred promoter is tin. The level of tin present in the catalyst may be up to 10 , preferably 0.1 to 1.0 , by weight. One method of preparing the catalyst is by dissolving water soluble molybdenum, chromium and manganese salts in water, drying and calcining. The preferred salt for molybdenum is ammonium heptamolybdate. The preferred salts for chromium and manganese are the nitrates. If tin is to be added as a reaction promoter, it is preferred to use stannic chloride.When the metal salts are all dissolved in water, generally only a minimum amount of water is used. The aqueous solution is then dried. The solution may be concentrated to a viscous solution and air dried, however,spray drying is preferred. Generally, to improve the handling of the dried material, particularly during the subsequent tableting operations, a binding agent is added to the mixture such as silica in the form of silicon dioxide. An aqueous colloidal silicon dioxide such as Ludox AS 40 is very satisfactory. The preferred level of silica is 20 by weight of the calcined catalyst. After drying, the dried material is then calcined to form the metal oxide mixture. The calcining is generally carried out in a forced air oven at about 4500C for about 16 hours. To improve the catalyst, by providing increased physical strength, the dried material is generally compressed into shapes, such as tablets or pellets, prior to calcining. It is preferred to compress the dried material into cylindrically shaped tablets for improved performance in the ammoxidation reactor. While the size of the tablets can vary with the size of the reactor. Tablets of from 2.0 to 4.0 mm in diameter and a thickness of from 1.0 to 4.0 mm are preferred wherein such tablets may weigh from about 20 to 40 mg. It is often preferred to add a lubricant to the dried powder prior to tableting. Graphite is suitable and may be added in amounts up to about 1 to 5 g of graphite per 100 g of catalyst. It is preferred to use 1 graphite. The catalyst may also be strengthened by impregnating a support with such catalyst. Suitable for such supported catalysts are silica and kieselguhr. Another such method is the use of a coated catalyst wherein the catalyst is deposited completely around and adhered to an inert support. This technique is well known to those skilled in this art and U.S.Patent 4,077,912 discloses methods useful for preparing such catalysts. In addition, to the above1 other methods of catalyst preparation known to those skilled in the art may be employed. One such method is co precipitation.The normal co precipitation techniques, causing precipitation by adjusting the pH with acid or base are preferred. After the catalyst is prepared, it is charged into a suitable reactor. Generally, a packed bed reactor is employed. A gaseous stream consisting of 4 methylthiazole, ammonia, air and water vapor is then continuously passed over the heated catalyst.The preferred concentration of 4 methylthiazole in the reaction stream is 0.5 to 1.2 mole percent. The preferred mole ratios of the other reactants are Oxygen 4 methylthiazole 16 1 to 32 1 Ammonia 4 methylthiazole 1 1 to 2 1 Water 4 methylthiazole 0 to 10 1 For an isothermal reaction system employing a tableted, tin promoted catalyst with silica, a temperature range of from 360 to 4800C is employed. A preferred temperature range is from 410 to 4550C.For other catalyst preparations, such as granular, non tableted systems with or without one or both of tin and silica, the temperature ranges can be adjusted upwards or downwards by about 600C. Similar shifts in the preferred ranges would be observed. Where non tableted catalysts are employed, the catalyst is ground and passed through a series of graduated sieves to provide for a uniform range of sizes. The sizes of particles used in a particular reactor will depend upon the size of the reactor, with larger reactors generally requiring larger particle sizes. For reactors generally used for investigational purposes particle sizes of from 16 to 30 mesh are particularly suitable. The contact time for the reaction is from 0.04 to 1.7 grams of catalyst seconds per ml of reaction stream. A preferred reaction contact time is from 0.25 to 0.35 grams of catalyst seconds per ml of reaction stream. The product of this process, 4 cyanothiazole is an important chemical intermediate, useful in the preparation of many different compounds.One of the most important products prepared from 4cyanothiazole is thiabendazole 2 4 thiazolyl benzimidazole . Thiabendazole is an important anthelmintic and fungicidal agent very familiar to those skilled in the arts of veterinary medicine, animal husbandry, and agricultural fungicides. The compound is also an important industrial fungicide with uses in the paint industry and in circulating water systems such as in cooling towers and in the paper industry. The following examples are provided in order that the invention might be illustrated and more fully understood. They are not to be construed as limitative of the invention. EXAMPLE 1The Preparation and Performance of a Typical Unpromoted Catalyst With agitation 74.7 gms of 53.4 Mn NO3 2 solution and 106.0 gms of Cr NO3 3.9H2O are added to 52 mls of distilled water. The mixture is aged at 25 300C until nearly complete dissolution occurs.Then it is filtered to remove insoluble impurities. To 76 mls of distilled water is added,with agitation, 46.8 gms of NH4 6Mo7024.4H20. After the addition, the mixture is heated to 42 470C and aged until essentially all the material is dissolved. Then, to remove insoluble particulate matter, the mixture is filtered. Over a 30 minute period, the manganese and chromium nitrate solution is added, with continuous agitation, to the molybdate solution. After aging an additional 30 minutes at 25 300C, the combined solutions are concentrated by heating until a viscous fluid is obtained. The resultant material is then dried at 1200C in a forced air oven to a moisture content of less than 5 . The dried catalyst is calcined in air at 4500C for 16 hours. After calcining, it is crushed and screened to 16 30 mesh material. The mole ratio of Mn Cr Mo in the final catalyst is 0.84 1.00 1.00. Three and six tenths cubic centimeters 3.6 cc of the catalyst, prepared in accordance with the procedure described above, are placed into a 0.635 centimeter cm inside diameter ID . stainless steel reactor tube. The reactor tube is heated electrically and connected via a suitable sampling system to a gas chromatograph for analysis of the reactants and products. The reactor feed is comprised of air, 4methylthiazole, ammonia and water in the ratio of 28 1 1.5 3.1. The flow rates are adjusted to provide a total flow of 720 cc min and, thus, a contact time of 0.27 gm of catalyst seconds per ml of reaction stream.The reactor temperature is maintained at 4420C. At this temperature, 39 of the 4 methylthiazole is converted into products. Of the 4 methylthiazole converted, 74 is converted to 4 cyanothiazole RCN , 7.3 is converted to thiazole RH and the remainder is converted to combustion products. Thus, the selectivity to the desired product, 4 cyanothiazole, is 74 . The conversion and selectivity to 4 cyanothiazole and thiazole at other temperatures are given in Table I. TABLE I Catalyst Mn0.8dC 1.00MO1.0005,34 Temp .OC Conversion Selectivity RCN RH 411 13 71 8.2 424 18 74 7.1 442 39 74 7.3 457 62 74 8.2 476 88 68 10.5 495 99 56 12.4 EXAMPLE 2The Preparation and Performance of a Tin PromotedCatalyst With agitation, 79.8 gms of 53.4 Mn NO3 2 solution, 106.0 gms of Cr NO3 3.9H2O and 1.088 gms of SnC14.5H2O are added to 47 mls of distilled water.The mixture is aged at 25 30 C until complete dissolution results. To 76 mls of distilled water is added, with agitation, 46.8 gms of NH4 6Mo7O24.4H2O. After the addition, the mixture is heated to 42 47 C and aged until essentially all the material is dissolved. Then, to remove insoluble particulate matter, it is filtered. Over a 30 minute period, the solution containing manganese nitrate, chromium nitrate and stannic chloride is added, with continuous agitation, to the molybdate solution. After aging an additional 30 minutes at 25 300C, the combined solutions are concentrated by heating until a viscous fluid is obtained. The resultant material is then dried at 1200C in a forced air oven to a moisture content of less than 5 . The dried catalyst is calcined in air at 4500C for 16 hours. After calcining, it is crushed and screened to 16 30 mesh material. The mole ratio of Sn Mn Cr Mo in the final catalyst is 0.012 0.90 1.00 1.00. By weight, the tin is present to the extent of 0.5 . The reactor conditions and feed composition employed for this catalyst are the same as those utilized in Example 1. The conversion and selectivity to 4 cyanothiazole and thiazole are given in Table II. TABLE II Catalyst Sn0.012Mn0.90Cr1.00Mo1.00O5.42Temp OC Conversion Selectivity RCN RH 410 34 76 2.9 426 44 77 2.7 441 63 78 3.0 457 80 72 8.4 475 92 65 9.7 492 98 51 9.0 EXAMPLE 3The Preparation and Performance of a Tin PromotedCatalyst Which Contains Silica With agitation 8444.9 gms of Cr NO3 3.9H2O is added to 1602 mls of distilled water held at 65 700C. After the Cr NO3 3.9H2O dissolves and while still maintaining a temperature of 65 70 C, 4795.9 gns of molten 70.8 Mn N03 2 is added. To 6055 mlsof distilled water is added, with agitation, 3728.5 gms of NH4 6Mo7024.4H2O. After the addition, the mixture is heated to 42 470C and aged until essentially all the material is dissolved.Then, to remove insoluble particulate matter, it is filtered. After the filtration, the filtrate is heated to 65 700C and to it is added 88.6 gms of SnC14.5H2O. Over a 60 minute period, the chromium and manganese nitrate solution is added, with continuous agitation, to the molybdate solution containing the stannic chloride. During the addition, both solutions are maintained at 65 700C. After they are combined, the solutions are heated to 100 1050C. When all the solids have dissolved, 3768.3 gms of Ludox AS 40 is added. The resultant solution, held at 100 1050C, is then spray dried to obtain a powder at a temperature of 800C or greater and with a moisture content of less than 5 . After spray drying, the powder is blended with a lubricating graphite 1 gm of graphite per 20 gms of spray dried powder and compressed into tablets of a size of about 3.2 mm in diameter and 3.2 mm thick weighing from 20 to 40 mg each. The tablets are then calcined in air at 4500C for 16 hours. When the calcination is complete, the catalyst is ready for use. However, for evaluation, the catalyst is normally crushed and screened to 16 30 mesh material. The mole ratio of Sn Mn Cr Mo in the final catalyst is 0.012 0.90 1.00 1.00. The level of Sio2 is about 19 by weight. The reactor conditions and feed composition employed for this catalyst are the same as those utilized in Example 1. The conversion and selectivity to 4 cyanothiazole and thiazole are given in Table III. TABLE IIICatalyst Sn0.012Mn0.90Cr1.00Mo1.00O5.42 81 SiO2 19 Temp C Conversion Selectivity RCN RH 394 13 71 8.3 409 20 75 6.9 425 29 75 6.3 440 47 74 6.6 455 71 74. 7.3 474 93 67 8.9 EXAMPLE 4The Preparation of a Catalyst With Reduced Tin andGraphite and Without Silica. A spray dried powder is prepared as outlined in Example 3. It contains the same amounts of manganese, chromium and molybdenum as in Example 3, but three fifths of the tin and no Ludox. After preparation, the powder is blended with a lubricating graphite 1 gm per 100 gm of spray dried powder and compressed into suitably shaped tablets. The tablets are next calcined in air by heating to 4500C over an 8 hour period and aging at this temperature for an additional 8 hours. When the calcination is complete, the tableted catalyst is ready for use. However for evaluation, the catalyst is normally crushed and screened to 16 30 mesh material. The mole ratio of Sn Mn Cr Mo in the final catalyst is 0.0072 0.90 1.00 1.00. This represents 0.3 of tin by weight. The reactor conditions and feed composition employed for this catalyst are the same as those utilized in Example 1. The conversion and selectivity to 4 cyanothiazole and thiazole are given in Table IV. TABLE IVCatalyst Sn00072Mn 090Cr100Mo100O541 Temp C Conversion Selectivity RCN RH 380 14 51 1.3 395 22 65 2.8 411 34 73 2.4 429 51 77 2.5 445 69 77 3.3 460 89 73 4.9 476 97 64 5.8 EXAMPLE s The Preparation and Performance of a CoprecipitatedUnpromoted Catalyst With agitation 79.8 gms of 54.9 Mfl NO3 2 solution and 106.0 gms of Cr NO3 3. 9H2O are added to 47.0 mls of distilled water. The mixture is aged at 25 300C until nearly complete dissolution occurs. Then it is filtered to remove insoluble impurities. To 76 mls of distilled water is charged, with agitation, 46.8 gms of NH4 6Mo7O24.4H2O. After addition, the mixture is heated to 42 470C and aged until essentially all the material is dissolved. Then, to remove insoluble particulate matter, it is filtered. Over a 60 min period, the manganese and chromium nitrate solution is added, with continuous agitation, to the molybdate solution. 15N NH4OH is then added until the pH remains at 5.5 to 5.8 for 60 minutes. About 72 mls of ammonium hydroxide is required. The precipitate obtained is filtered and washed with 280 mls of distilled water. After washing, the filter cake is dried at 1200C in a forced air oven to a moisture content of less than 5 . The dried catalyst is calcined in air at 4500C for 16 hours. After calcining, it is crushed and screened to 16 30 mesh material. The mole ratio of Mn Cr Mo in the final catalyst is 0.90 1.00 1.00. The reactor conditions and feed composition employed for this catalyst are the same as those utilized in Example 1. The conversion and selectivity to 4 cyanothiazole and thiazole are given in Table V. TABLE V Catalyst Mn nCr1.00MO1,0005,40 Temp C Conversion Selectivity 8 RCN RH 384 17 67 9.6 400 26 66 8.6 416 40 74 7.5 432 58 75 6.9 440 75 77 3.3 446 82 72 8.6 461 96 64 11.1 EXAMPLE 6 The Preparation and Performance of a CoatedCatalyst A spray dried powder is prepared as outlined in Example 3. It contains the same amounts of manganese, chromium and molybdenum as in Example 3, but one fifth the amount of tin and no Ludox. After preparation, the spray dried powder is calcined in air by heating to 4500C over an 8 hour period and then aging at this temperature for an additional 8 hours. Once calcined, it is then passed through a 100 mesh screen.The mole ratio of Sn Mn Cr Mo in the final fired powder is 0.0024 0.90 1.00 1.00. This represents 0.1 of tin by weight. To a slowly rotating inclined glass container is next charged, 40.1 gms of 16 30 mesh alundum NortonSA 5123 , 7.5 gms of silica DuPont Ludox AS 40 and 10.0 gms of the fired catalyst powder prepared above. Prior to the addition, the Ludox and fired catalyst powder are divided into 3 approximately equal parts. Each part is added alternately to the gently tumbling alundum over a 60 minute period. Once the addition is complete, the contents of the glass container are blended an additional 15 minutes and then transferred to a porcelain evaporating dish. After air drying at 1200C for 16 hours, the final coated support is gently screened to 12 30 mesh material. The amount of fired catalyst powder and SiO2 in the final coated support is 11.5 and 3.4 , respectively. The reactor conditions and feed composition employed for this coated support are the same as those utilized in Example 1. The conversion and selectivity to 4 cyanothiazole and thiazole are given in Table VI. TABLE VICatalyst Sun0 0024 Mn0.90 Curl.00 1.00 owe.40 11.5 wt SiO2 3.4 wt Alundum 85.1 wt Temp OC Conversion Selectivity RCN RH 410 5 5 0.1 426 7 21 0.1 440 10 55 0.1 456 17 58 0.1 469 25 66 2.3 484 38 70 2.5 505 53 72 3.1