# New cephalosporin derivatives, their production and their use.

## Abstract
The invention relates to novel, protected forms of Cephalosporin C and related 7 aminoadipin amidocephalosporanic acids, their production and their use in producing corresponding 7 aminocephalosporanic acid derivatives by deacylation.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A compound of formula I,EMI31.1 in which either R4 is a group R5 CO O , in which R5 is lower alkyl, amino, mono or di lower alkyl amino, or a methoxy p p hydroxyphenyl vinyl, in which the hydroxy group may be esterified with sulphuric acid, or R4 is a group R6 S ,in which R6 is a heterocycle, R3 is hydrogen or methoxy, R1 and R2, which may be the same or dif ferent, are either lower alkanoyl when R4 is CH3 CO O or hydrogen, nitro, cyano, lower alkanoyl or lower alkoxy carbonyl, when R4 is other than CH3 CO O , and the radicals R8 which may be the same or different, each signifies hydrogen or the residue of an ester grouping, or a salt of a compound in which 1 or both of the radicals R8 represent hydrogen. 2. The compound of Claim 1, which isN 2,2 diacetylvinyl cephalosporin C 7 EN 2,2 diethoxycarbonyl vinyl3adipinamido 3 12,5 dihydro 6 hydroxy 5 oxo 2 methyl l ,2, 4 triazin 3 yl thiomethyl ceph 3 em 4 carboxylic acid 7 N 2,2 diethoxyzarbonylivinyl3adipinamido 3 1 methyl 1,2,3,4 tetrazol 5 yl thiomethylaceph 3 am 4 carboxylic acid 7 N 2,2 diethoxycarbonyl vinyl adipinamido 3 benzo thiazol 2 yl thiomethyl ceph 3 em 4 carboxylic acid or a salt thereof. 3. A process for the production of a compound of Claim 1, which comprises a producing a compound of formula Ia, EMI33.1 in which R3, R5 and R8 are as defined in Claim 1, and R2 and RI, which may be the same or dif ferent, each signifies either lower alkanoyl when R5 is CH3 or hydrogen, nitro, cyano, lower alkanoyl or lower alkoxycarbonyl when R5 is other than CH3 , by reacting a compound of formula II,EMI33.2 in which R3, R5 and R8 are as defined in Claim 1, with a compound of formula III,EMI33.3 in which Rj and R2 are as defined above, and R7 is hydrogen or lower alkyl, or b producing a compound of formula Ib,EMI34.1 in which R1, R21 R3, R6 and R8 are as defined in Claim 1, by reacting a compound of formula Ic,EMI34.2 in which R1, R2, R3, R5 and R8 are as defined in Claim 1, with a compound of formula IV, HS R6 IV in which R6 is as defined in Claim 1. 4. A process for the production of a compound of formula V,EMI35.1 in which R3, R4 and R8 are as defined in Claim 1, which comprises deacylating a compound of Claim 1. 5. In a process for converting a compound of formula VI,EMI35.2 in which R3, R5 and R8 are as defined in Claim 1, into a compound of formula V, stated in Claim 4, which comprises protecting the free amino group in the 7aminoadipoyl side chain of the compound of formula VI thiolating at the 3 position when a compound in which R4 is R6 S is desired, and deacylating the resulting protecting compound, the improvement which comprises protecting said free amino group by conversion of the compound of formula VI to a compound of formula Ia, stated in Claim 1. CLAIMS FOR AUSTRIA 1. A process for the production of a com pound of formula I,EMI36.1 in which either R4 is a group R5 CO O , in which R5 is lower alkyl, amino, mono or di lower alkyl amino, or a methoxy p p hydroxyphenyl vinyl, in which the hydroxy group may be esterified with sulphuric acid, or R4 is a group R6 S ,in which R6 is a heterocycle, R3 is hydrogen or methoxy, R1 and R2, which may be the same or dif ferent, are either lower alkanoyl when R4 is CH3 CO O or hydrogen, nitro, cyano, lower alkanoyl or lower alkoxy carbonyl, when R4 is other than CH3 CO O , and the radicals R8 which may be the same or different, each signifies hydrogen or the residue of an ester grouping, or a salt of a compound in which 1 or both of the radicals R8 represent hydrogen, a producing a compound of formula Ia,EMI37.1 in which R3, R5 and R8 are as defined above, and R2 and R , which may be the same or dif ferent, each signifies either lower alkanoyl when R5 is CH3 or hydrogen, nitro, cyano, lower alkanoyl or lower alkoxycarbonyl when R5 is other than CH by reacting a compound of formula II,EMI37.2 in which R3, R5 and R8 are as defined above, with a compound of formula III,EMI38.1 in which R11 and R2 are as defined above, and R7 is hydrogen or lower alkyl, or b producing a compound of formula Ib,EMI38.2 in which RL, R2, R3, R6 and R8 are as defined above, by reacting a compound of formula Ic,EMI38.3 in which R1, R2, R3, R5 and R8 are as defined above, with a compound of formula IV, HS R6 IV in which R6 is as defined above. 2. A process for the production of a compound of formula V,EMI39.1 in which R3, R4 and R8 are as defined in Claim 1, which comprises deacylating a compound of formula I, stated in Claim 1. 3. In a process for converting a compound of formula VI,EMI39.2 in which R3, R5 and R8 are as defined in Claim 1, into a compound of formula V, stated in Claim 3, which comprises protecting the free amino group in the aminoadipoyl side chain of the compound of formula VI thiolating at the 3 position when a compound in whichR4 is R6 S is desired, and deacylating the resulting protecting compound, the improvement which comprises protecting said free amino group by conversion of the compound of formula VI to a compound of formula Ia, stated in Claim 1.

## Description
NEW CEPHALOSPORIN DERIVATIVES, THEIR PRODUCTIONAND THEIR USE 7 Aminocephalosporanic acid derivatives are key intermediates for the production of a wide variety of semi synthetic cephalosporin antibiotics. One method for their production involves the deacylation of corresponding 7 acylaminocephalosporanic acids, which may have been produced directly by fermentation, or may be derivatives of fermentation products.A wellknown deacylation methdd involves the so called iminohalide iminoether route, in which the carbonyl group in the 7 amido linkage is converted into an iminohalide by treatment with a halpgenating agent such as phosphorous pentachloride the imino halide is then converted into an imino ether with an alcohol and the imino ether is readily split by hydrolysis to form the free 7 aminocephalosporanic acid This process as applied to cephalosporin C has been described for example in British Patent 1,041,985. In an earlier application DOS 3,002,659 , we have described a highly advantageous improvement in the method for converting Cephalosporin C to 7 ACA which involves the initial formation of CephalosporinC derivatives of formula A EMI2.1 in which the radicals Ra, which may be the same or different, each signifies hydrogen or the residue of an ester grouping, and Rb and Rc, which may be the same or dif ferent each signifies hydrogen, nitro, cyano or lower alkoxycarbonyl. The derivatives of formula A may readily be deacylated, for example by the imino halide imino ether route, to form 7 ACA or salts or esters thereof.One major advantage of this method is that the formation of the compounds of formula A may be accomplished readily in Cephalosporin C culture filtrates thus avoiding the need to isolate Cephalosporin C which is laborious. A further advantage is that the reagents employed to produce the derivative of form ula A are stable to aqueous hydrolysis and need not therefore be employed in great excess, in contrast to other known processes in which the amino group of the cephalosporin side is protected prior to the deacylation step, for example by reaction with acid chlorides. The avoidance of such excesses minimises side reactions and thus increases yields. We designate the derivatives of formula A as polar olefines and, therefor, the method is designated the Polar Olefine Method. We have now surprisingly found that other polar olefines may be used in the method of convertingCephalosporin C to 7 ACA. We have also surprisingly found that the polar olefine method has quite general applicability not only to Cephalosporin C itself but to other known cephalosporins having an aminoadipoyl side chain, for example the cephamycins. Finally, we have discovered that the polar olefines are well suited, for example sufficiently stable, for further derivatisation, in particular at the 3 substituent, more particularly by thiolation, prior to the deacylation step. In one aspect, therefore, the present invention provides a novel class of polar olefines of formula I, EMI4.1 in which either R4 is a group R5 CO O , in which R5 is lower alkyl, amino, mono or di lower alkyl amino,or a methoxy ss p hydroxyphenyl vinyl, in which the hydroxy group may be esterified with sulphuric acid, or R4 is a group R6 S ,in which R6 is a heterocycle, R3 is hydrogen or methoxy, R1 and R2, which may be the same or dif ferent, are either lower alkanoyl when R4 is CH3 CO O or hydrogen, nitro, cyano, lower alkanoyl or lower alkoxy carbonyl, when R4 is other than CH3 CO O , and the radicals R8, which may be the same or different, each signifies hydrogen or the residue of an ester grouping, and salts of compounds in which one or both of the radicals R8 represents hydrogen. The invention also provides processes for the production of compounds of formula I comprising a producing a compound of formula Ia,EMI5.1 in which R3, R5 and R8 are as defined above, and R2, and R1, which may be the same or dif ferent, each signifies either lower alkanoyl when R5 is CH3 or hydrogen, nitro, cyano, lower alkanoyl or lower alkoxycarbonyl when R5 is other than CH3 , by reacting a compound of formula II,EMI5.2 in which R3, R5 and R8 are as defined above, with a compound of formula III,EMI5.3 in which Ri and R2 are as defined above, and R is hydrogen or lower alkyl, or b producing a compound of formula Ib,EMI6.1 in which R1, R2, R3, R6 and R8 are as defined above, by reacting a compound of formula Ic,EMI6.2 in which R1, R2, R3, R5 and R8 are as defined above, with a compound of formula IV, HS R6 IV in which R6 is as defined above. Process a is suitably effected in an inert solvent or solvent mixture, e.g. in an aqueous medium or in a mixture of water and a water miscible solvent, such as an alkanol, e.g. ethanol, or acetone, preferably in water. The reaction is conveniently effected at a temperature of from 5 to 500C, preferably 100 to 40 C, in particular at room temperature. The compound of formula II may conveniently be employed, when one or both of the radicals R8 are hydrogen, in free acid form or in salt form, for example alkali metal salt form, e.g. in mono or di sodium salt form. Process b is suitably effected in aqueous solution, preferably working under neutral or weakly acid or alkaline conditions, more particularly from pH 4 to 9, in particular plI 6.5. The aqueous medium may suitably contain a hydrophilic, organic solvent, for example acetone, and the reaction may conveniently be effected at a temperature of from 200 to 1000C, preferably 500 to 700. Process b may alternatively be effected in an inert organic solvent or solvent mixture for example aliphatic or aromatic hydrocarbons, amides, ethers, ketones, carboxylic acid esters, aliphatic or aromatic halohydrocarbons, nitrO hydrocarbon5 and nitriles, come into question. Specific examples of suitable solvents are toluene, xylene, dioxane, methyl isobutyl ketone, cyclohexanone, butyl acetate, diethyl carbonate, 1,2 dichloroethane, carbon tetrachloride, chloroform, 1,1,1 or 1,1,2 trichloroethane, 1,1,2,2tetrachloroethane, chlorobenzene, dichlorobenzene, nitromethane, nitroethane, nitrobenzene, propionitrile, and butyronitrile, preferably 1,1,2 trichloroethane, 1,1,2,2 tetrachloroethane, methyl isobutyl ketone, nitrobenzene, nitromethane or nitroethane. Preferably the solvent is chosen such that the reactants are soluble at the desired reaction temperature.The process is suitably effected at 500 to 1800C. Alternatively, process b may be effected without a solvent, the two reactants then being well mixed and heated to the reaction temperature, in most cases a clear melt or solution then being formed. The molecular ratio of the reactants is not critical but generally the compound of formula IV is employed in equimolar.or slightly excess quantities preferably l to 3, more preferably 1 to 1.5 molar equivalents of the compound IV are employed per molar equivalent of the compound Ic. The reactants may be employed in free form or in the form of salts, for example alkali metal salts, e.g. sodium or potassium salts. The resulting compounds of formula I may, if desired, be isolated and purified in conventional manner. Where required, compounds of formula I in which one or both of R8 are hydrogen may be converted into salt forms, e.g. alkali metal, such as potassium or sodium salt forms, in conventional manner, or vice versa. In the compounds of formula I, the ester grouping s formed by the radical s R8 may be any conventional ester protecting group employed in cephalosporin chemistry, in particular in deacylation processes for the production of 7 ACA or derivatives thereof. Preferred esters include the trialkylsilyl, dialkylchlorosilyl, benzhydryl and nitrobenzyl esters.The groups R8, and the groups R1 and R2, are suitably the same. Alternatively, one may be hydrogen and the other, for example, lower alkanoyl. As used herein, the term lower when applied to alkyl groups or groups containing alkyl groups, means C1 4, e.g. C1 2, particularly C1. The compounds of formula I are, as indicated, useful as intermediates for the production of 7 ACA derivatives of formula V,EMI9.1 in which R3, R4 and R8 are as defined above, and salts of the compounds in which R8 is hydrogen. The compounds I may be converted into compounds V by well known deacylation methods such as the iminohalide iminoether route described above.The compounds of formula V are themselves, of course, key starting materials for a wide range of known, highly active cephalosporin antibiotics. A further aspect of the present invention is an improvement in a process for converting a compound of formula VI,EMI10.1 in which R3, R5 and R8 are as defined above, into a compound of formula V, stated above, by protecting the free amino group in the 7 aminoadipoyl side chain of the compound of formula VI, thiolating at the 3 position when a compound in which R4 is R6 S is desired, and deacylating the resulting protecting said free amino group by conversion of the compound of formula VI into a compound of formula Ia, stated above. In the compounds of formula I, the groups R and R2 may be alkanoyl, e.g. acetyl. Alternatively, they may be hydrogen. Alternatively, they may be nitro. Alternatively they may be cyano. Finally, they may be alkoxycarbonyl. The preferred significances for R4 will of course be dictated by the desired product of formulaV, or, ultimately, the desired cephalosporin antibiotic to be produced therefrom. These are of course known products. When R4 is S R6, the heterocycleR6 may for example be pyrrole, oxazole, isoxazole, thiazole, isothiazole, pyrazole, imidazole, 1,2,3 oxadiazole, 1,2,4 oxa diazole, 1,2,5 oxadiazole, 1,2,3 thiadiazole, 1,2,4thiadiazole, 1,2,5 thiadiazole, 1,3,4 thiadiazole, 1,2,3 triazole, 1,2,4 triazole, oxatriazole, tetrazole, pyridine, pyridazine, pyrimidine, pyrazine, 1,2,4 ,5 tetrazine, benzthiazole, benzimidazole, purine, pteridine, quinoline, quinazoline, tetrazolo 1,5,6 pyridazine. The heterocycle may be unsubstituted.Alternatively, it may be mono or polysubstituted for example by lower alkyl, lower alkenyl, lower alkynyl, benzyl, aryl for example phenyl or substituted phenyl , halogen, trifluoromethyl, amino, carboxy, carbamoyl, carbalkoxy, lower aminoalkyl, lower carboxyalkyl, lower carbalkoxy alkyl, or lower carbamoylalkyl. In particular the heterocycle may suitably be 2 methyl 3 pyrazole, 2 methyl 3 imidazole, l methyl l,2,3 triazole 5, 3,5 dimethyl 1,2,3 triazole 4, 4 methyl 1,2,4 triazole 5, 3 methyl 1,2,3 triazole 4, 5 methyl 1,2,3 oxadiazol4, 1,2,4 oxadiazole 3, 3 methyl 1,2,4 oxadiazole 5, 3 methyl 1,2,5 oxadiazole 4, 3 methyl 1,2,4 thiadiazole 5, 1,3,4 thiadiazole 5, 2 methyl 1,3,4 thiadiazole 5, 2 N methylacetamido 1,3,4 thiadiazole 5, 5 tetrazole, 1 methyl tetrazole 5, l carboxymethyltetrazole 5, 1 2 dimethylaminoethyl tetrazole 5, 1,2,3,4 oxatriazole 5, 2 pyridine, 2 pyrimidine, 4 pyridine, 3 pyridazine, 2 pyrazine, 2 carbamoylmethyl 1,3,4 thiadiazole, 2 carbamoylmethyl l,3,4 oxadiazole 5, 2 carbamoyl methyl 1,3,4 oxadiazole 5, l carbamoylmethyl l,2,3,4 tetrazol 5, protected 1 p aminoethyl tetrazole 5, 1 carboxyethyl tetrazole 5, 2, 5 dihydro 6 hydroxy 2 methyl 5 oxo l, 2, 4 triazine 3, 4,5 dihydro 6 hyd roxy 4 methyl 5 oxo 1,2,4 triazine 3, 1,3,5 triazine 2, benzimidazole 2, benzothiazole 2, benzoxazole 2 and tetrazolotl,5,6 pyridazine 6. The compounds of formula IV, for use in process b , are known or may be produced in conventional manner from available starting materials, for example as described in Heterocyclic Compounds, Robert C. Elderfield John Wiley Sons, N.Y. orThe Chemistry of Heterocyclic Compounds, Weissberger et al. John Wiley Sons, N.Y. . The compound dihydro 1,2,4 triazin 3 thiol may be produced analogously to the method described by R.H. Ongania Dissertation, Innsbruck 1972 . When the compound of formula IV for use in process b contains a free amino group, this should preferably be protected prior to the reaction, the protecting group in the resultant product being removable in conventional manner. The following examples, in which all temperatures are in degrees Centigrade, illustrate the invention. EXAMPLE 1 N 2,2 Di acetylvinyl cephalosporin C Process a 9.5 g of Cephalosporin C monosodium salt dihydrate are dissolved in water and the pH is adjusted to 8 by addition of 2N NaOH. 4 g of 3ethoxymethylenepentan 2, 4 dione are added, whereupon the pH value immediately begins to drop. By continuous addition of 2N NaOH the pH value is held at about 8. After about 30 minutes the pH value of the solution is adjusted to 2 and the reaction mixture is extracted with n butanol. The organic phase is dried and the solvent is evaporated off. The residue is rubbed with diisopropylether and dried in vacuo to obtain the heading compound, np. 1100 decomp. . EXAMPLE 2 N 2,2 Diacetylvinyl ceP nalosPorin C monosodium salt Process a 1 litre of a conventionally obtained culture filtrate of a Cephalosporin C fermentation content of active substance 13 g l is adjusted to pH 8 by addition of 2N NaOH. 15 ml of 3 ethoxymethylene pentan 2,4 dione are added, with stirring, whereby the pH value is maintained at 8 by continuous addition of NaOH. After about 30 minutes there is no further fall in pH value even without addition ofNaOH. The pH value is then adjusted to 2 and the mixture is extracted with n butanol. The organic phase is substantially evaporated and the residue is taken up in 300 ml of acetone.The monosodium salt is precipitated out by addition of 5 g of sodiumethylhexoate dissolved in 50 ml of acetone . The salt is isolated by filtration and dried vacuo.M.P. 160 179 decomp. .EXAMPLE 3 N 3 Oxobut l en l yl cephalosporin C Process a 9.5 g of Cephalosporin C monosodium salt dihydrate are dissolved in 200 ml of water. The pH value of the mixture is adjusted to 9 by addition of 2N NaOH. 10 ml of 4 methoxybut 3 en 2 one are added with stirring and the mixture is warmed to 400. The pH value is maintained at 9 for 20 minutes by addition of 2N NaOH. The mixture is cooled to 100 and the pH value thereof is adjusted to 2. The reaction mixture is extracted with n butanol. The extract is evaporated in vacuo. The residue consists of a mixture of the heading compound and Cephalosporin C, which is formed by acid hydrolysis of the heading compound. This mixture can be employed for hydrolysis to Cephalosporin C or for splitting to 7 ACA without further purification. EXAMPLE 4 N 3 Oxobut l en l yl Cephalosporin C Process a 1 litre of a conventionally obtained culture filtrate of a Cephalosporin C fermentation content of active substance 13 g l is warmed to 400. The pH value of the mixture Is adjusted to 9 by addition of 2N NaOH and is then mixed with 25 ml of 4 methoxybut 3 en 2 one. The pH value is maintained for 20 minutes at 8.5 to 9 by addition of 2N NaOH and the mixture is then cooled to 100 and the pE value adjusted to 2. The mixture is extracted with n butanol and mixed with 50 NaOH until a pH value of 5 has been reached. The solvent is removed. in vacuo and the residue is digested with ethyl acetate.The solid material is isolated and dried and the thus obtained sodium salt mixture of the heading compound and Cephalosporin C is, after further purification, suitable not only for hydrolysis to Cephalosporin C but also for splitting to 7 ACA. EXAMPLE 5 7 1N 2 ,2 diethoxycarbonyl vinyli adipin amido 3 2,5 dihydro 6 hydroxy 5 oxo 2 methyl i, 2, 4 tiazin 3 yI thiomethyl ceph 3 em 4 carboxylic acid Process b 11.7 g of N 1 2,2 diethoxycarbonyl vinyl cephalosporin C and 3.5 g of 2,5 dihydro 6 hydroxy5 oxo 2 methyl 1,2,4 triazin 3 thiol are suspended in 100 ml of water. The pH value of the mixture is adjusted to 6.5 by addition of sodium bicarbonate, whereupon a clear solution results. The solution is warmed to 600 and stirred at this temperature for 6 hours whereupon the pH value remains at 6.5. The mixture is then cooled to room temperature and its pH value is adjusted to 2 by addition of semiconcentrated sulphuric acid.The resulting partially oily precipitate Is extracted with a mixture of ethyl acetate and acetone 5 1 and the extract is freed of solvent and the residue digested with acetonitrile. The resulting solid material is isolated and dried at 400 in vacuo to obtain the heading compound as a light beige, substantially pure, powder.M.P. 165 decomp. . 1H NMR MeOH d4 6 9.30 q, lH, CO NH 8,10 d, lH, N CH 5.70 lH, H7 5.00 lH,H6 4.20 4H, O CH2 3.70 s, 3H, NCH3 3.65 q, 2H, S CH2 1.30 2t, 6H, CH2 CH3 . The heading compound may also be isolated in the form of its sodium salt by taking up the evaporation residue in acetone and adding a solution of sodium ethyl hexoate in acetone or a methanolic solution of sodium acetate, filtering and drying at 500. EXAMPLE 6 7 N 2,2 diethoxycarbonyl vinyl adipin amido 3 1 1 methyl 1,2,3,4 tetrazol 5 yl thiomethyl ceph 3 em 4 carboxylic acid, sodium salt Process b 5.85 g of N 2,2 diethoxycarbonylivinyl3 cephalosporin C together with 1.35 g of 1 methyl 5mercaptotetrazole are suspended in 70 ml of water. The pH value is adjusted to 6.5 with solid sodium bicarbonate whereupon a clear solution results. This solution is stirred for 5 hours at 60 70 and then cooled to room temperature. The pH is adjusted to 5 with dilute sulphuric acid and the acid phase, from which an oily precìpìtate separates out, is extracted with a mixture of ethyl acetate acetone 5 1 . The extract is washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and then evaporated. The residue is taken up in 70 ml of acetone, filtered from undissolved material and mixed with a solution of sodium ethyl hexoate in acetone whereupon a voluminous precipitate forms.The precipitate is filtered, washed with acetone and dried at 500 in vacuo to obtain the heading compound in the form of a substantially pure, light beige yellow powder, m.p. 1750. decomp. . 1H NER MeOH 6 9.20 q, lH, C N H, J 8 Hz, J 16 Hz 8,00. d, lH, C H, J 16 Hz 5.50 d, 1H, H7, J 5 Hz 4.95 d, 1H, H6, J 5 Hz 4.20 m, 7H1 2x OCH2 , C3 CH2 S , N C COOH 3.98 s, 3H, N CH3 3.60 q, 2H, S CH2 , J 18 Hz 2.40 1.60 2m, 6H, CH2 CH2 1.33 and 1.28 2t, 6H, 2x ethyl CH3, J 7Hz .EXAMPLE 7 7 EN 2,2 diethoxycarbonyl vinyladipin amido 1 methyl 1,2,3,4 tetrazol 5 yl thiomethyl ceph 3 em carboxylic acid, sodium salt Process b 5.85 g of N 2,2 diethoxycarbonyl vinyl ceph alosporin C are mixed with 1.75 g of 5 mercapto l methyl 1,2,3,4 tetrazole. The mixture is warmed to 1400 and maintained at this temperature for 15 minutes. After cooling, the darkly coloured melt is taken up in 200 ml of acetone, freed by filtration from undissolved material and the filtrate is mixed with a solution of sodiumethylhexoate in acetone 1.7 g in 30 ml . The resulting precipitate is isolated, washed with acetone ad dried at 600 in vacuo to obtain the heading compound, m.p. 1750 decomp. . EXAMPLE 8 7 N 2,2 diethoxycarbonyl vinyl adipin amidomethyl 1,2,3,4 tetrazol 5 yl thio methyl ceph 3 em 4 carboxylic acid, sodium salt Process b 3 5.85 g N 2,2 diethoxycarbonyl vinyl ceph alosporin C together with 1.75 g of 5 mercapto lmethyl 1,2,3,4 tetrazole are dissolved in 100 ml of l,1 2 trichloroethane and the solution is brought to boiling. After 50 minutes reflux, the solution is evaporated to remove substantially the solvent, the residue is taken up in 200 ml of acetone and the ace tonic solution is worked up as in Example 7 to obtain the heading compound, m.p. 175 decomp. .EXAEiPLE 9 7 IN 2,2 Diethoxycarbonyl vinyl adipi amido 3 r 1 methyl 1,2,3,4 teirazol 5 yl thiomethyl ceph 3 em 4 carboxylic acid, sodium salt Process b 5.85 g N C 2,2 Diethoxycarbonyl vinylceph alosporin C are mixed well with 2 g of sodium l methyl 1,2,3,4 tetrazol 5 thiolate. The powder mixture is then heated for 15 minutes at 1400, whereupon a darkly coloured melt is formed. This is digested with acetone after cooling and the solid material is isolated, washed with acetone and dried in vacuo to obtain the heading compound, m.p. 175 decomp. . EXAMPLE 10 7 IN 2, 2 Diethoxyc arbonyl vinyl J adipin amido 3 1 methyl l,2,3,4 tetrazol 5 yl thiomethyl ceph 3 em carboxvlic acid, sodium salt Process b 6.07 g of the sodium salt of N 2,2 diethoxy carbonyl vinyl cephalosporin C are mixed well with 1.75 g of 5 mercapto 1 methyl 1,2,3,4 tetrazole and the mixture is treated as in Example 9 to obtain the heading compound, m.p. 1750 decomp. .EXAMPLE 11 7 N 2,2 Diethoxycarbonyl vinyl adipin amido 3 benzothiazol 2 yl thiomethyl ceph 3 em 4 carboxlic acid, sodium salt Process b N 2,2 Diethoxycarbonyl vinyl cephalosporin C and 2 mercaptobenzothiazole are reacted and worked up in a moleculr ratio of 1 1.5 in the same manner as in Examples 7 and 8 to obtain the heading com pound, m.p. 180 decomp. . EXAMPLE 12 Cephalosporin C monosodium salt dihy drate 5 g of the mixture obtained from Example 4 or 3 are dissolved in 25 ml of ethanol, mixed with 10 ml of formic acid and warmed to 500. After 20 minutes, the mixture is evaporated to dryness in vacuo, the residual formic acid is removed by azeotropic distil lation with toluene, and the residue is taken up in 15 ml of 80 ethanol and neutralised with sodium acetate. The solution is seeded with Cephalosporin C sodium salt dihydrate crystals and allowed to stand for several hours. The crystals are isolated, washed with cold ethanol and dried to obtain the heading compound.EXAMPLE 13 7 Amifloeph1opora nic acid C7 ACA 10 g of the mixture obtained in Examples 3 or 4 are suspended in 50 ml of dichloromethane. 12 ml of dimethylaniline are added and 10 ml of dimethyldichlorosilane are added dropwise with cooling, whereupon a substantially clear solution results.This solution is then cooled to 100 and 5.1 g of phosphorous pentachloride are added in portions in the absence of moisture, the temperature being maintained at 100. The mixture is then stirred for 1 hour at 100 and is then poured into 180 ml of pre cooled methanol 20 whereupon the temperature increases to about 5 . After addition of 15 ml of water, the pH is adjusted to 3.5 by addition of concentrate ammonia and the mixture is stirred for 1 hour at about 5 . The precipitate is filtered off, washed well with water and methanol and dried at 600 to obtain 7 ACA in a purity of about 95 HPLC . EXAMPLE 14 7 Amino 3 1 methyl 1,2,3,4 tetrazol 5 yl thiomethyl ceph 3 em 4 carboxylic acid 7 g of 7 tN 2,2 diethoxycarbonyl vinylgadip inamido 3 1 methyl 1,2,3,4 tetrazol 5 yl thio methyliceph 3 em 4 carboxylic acid sodium salt are suspended in 40 ml of dried methylene dichloride.11 ml of dimethyl aniline are added at room temperature followed by 10 ml of dimethyldichiorosilane, whereupon the temperature increases to about 33 and a clear solution forms. After 10 minutes, the mixture is cooled to 10 and 3 g of phosphorous pentachloride are added whereupon the temperature rises to about 5 . After 40 minutes stirring at 5 , the reaction solution is poured into 60 ml of pre cooled methanol 20 , the temperature then rising to about 5 . After addition of 10 ml of water, the pH value of the solution is adjusted to 3.5 with semi concentrated ammonia, whereupon the product precipitates out.The precipitate is filtered off, washed with water and methanol and dried in vacuo at 50 . The thus obtained light cream powder constitutes the pure heading compound, m.p. 2250 decomp. . 1H NMR D2O, K2 c03 S 5.05 d, 1H, H7, J 5 Hz 4.80 d, lH, H6, J 5 Hz 4.20 q, 2H,C3 CH2 S , J 13 Hz 4.05 s, 3H, N CH3 3.55 g, 2H, C2 CH2 , J 18 Hz .EXAMPLE 15 7 Amino 3 2,5 dihydro 5 oxo 6 hydroxy 2 methyl 1, 2, 4 tr i a zin 3 vl thiomethyl ceph 3 em 4 carboxvlic acid 7 g of 7 IN 2,2 diethyloxycarbonyl vinyl adipinamido 3 2,5 dihydro 6 hydroxy 5 oxo 2 methyl1,2,4 triazin 3 yl thiomethyl ceph 3 em 4 carboxylic acid sodium salt are suspended in 40 ml of methylenedichloride. 1.5 ml of dimethylaniline and 8.8 ml of dimethyldichlorosilane are added, whereupon the temperature rises to 370 and a clear solution forms. After 10 minutes the mixture is cooled to 100 and 2.6 g of phosphorous pentachloride are added, whereupon the temperature increases to 5 . The mixture is stirred at this temperature for 14 minutes and is then poured into 60 ml of pre cooled dry methanol 20 , the temperature then increasing to about 5 . 10 ml of water are then added and finally the pH value of the solution is adjusted to 3.5 with semi concentrated ammonia, whereupon the heading compound precipitates out. The precipitate is filtered, washed with water and methanol and dried in vacuo at 500 to obtain the heading compound, m.p. 195 decomp. . 1H NMR D20, K2CO3 5.40 d, 1H, H7, J 5 Hz 5.00 d, 1H, H6, J 5 Hz 4.20 q, 2H, C3 CH2 S ,J 13 Hz 3.65 s, 3H, N CH3 3.55 q, 2H, C CH, S , J 18 Hz . EXAMPLE 16 7 Amino 3 1 methyl 1,2,3,4 tetrazol 5 yl thiomethyl ceph 3 em 4 carboxylic acid a 7 N 2,2 Diethoxycarbonyl vinyl 3 1 methyl 1,2,3,4 tetrazol 5 yl thiomethyl ceph 3 em 4 carboxylic acid sodium salt 1 litre of a Cephalosporin C culture filtrate 13 g Cephalosporin C litre is reacted with ethoxymethylenemalonic acid ester in the manner described in DOS 3,002,659. The reaction mixture is adjusted to pH 2 and extracted twice with 500 ml of methylisobutylketone. The extract is freed from water by azeotropic distillation in. vacuo and is evaporated to about 250 ml. 5 g of 1 methyl 5mercaptotetrazol are added and the mixture is refluxed for 40 minutes. The solvent is removed in vacuo and the residue is taken up in 300 ml of acetone and freed from insolubles.The filtrate is mixed with sodium ethylhexoate solution in acetone until precipitation is complete. The precipitate is filtered, washed with acetone and dried in vacuo at 500. The thus obtained product has a content of about 60 of the heading compound. This crude product can be purified by usual methods crystallisation, chromatography, etc. or may be used directly for deacylation.b 7 N 2,2 Diethoxycarbonyl vinyl 3 3 1 methyl 1,2,3,4 tetrazol 5 yl th ìomethyl3cech 3 em 4 carboxylic acid Starting with 1 litre of culture filtrate Cephalosporin C content 13 g l , the method is carried out as described under a until removal of the methylisobutylketones. The thus obtained oily residue can then either be directly used for deacylation or be digested with ethyl acetate diisopropy 1 ether, whereupon the heading compound is obtained in the form of an amorphous powder of about 50 purity.This can be purified by conventional methods chromatography, etc. .c 7 Amino 3 1 methyl 1,2,3,4 tetrazol 5 yl thio e thylZceph 3 em 4 caroxylic acid Deacylation of the crude product obtained under a 15 g of the crude product obtained under a content about 60 of 7 N 2,2 diethoxycarbonyl vinyl 3 l methyl l,2,3,4 tetrazol 5 yl thiomethyl ceph 3 em 4 carboxylic acid sodium salt are suspended in 80 ml of dichloromethane and mixed with 22 ml of dimethylaniline. 20 ml of dimethyldichlorosilane are added with slight cooling and after 15 minutes the resulting clear solution is cooled to 100 and 6 g of phosphorous pentachloride are added.The mixture is stirred for a further 45 minutes at 60 to 100 and then poured into 120 ml of methanol precooled to 20 . After addition of 20 ml of water, the pH value is adjusted to 3.5 by addition of ammonia solution 25 and the precipitate is filtered off. The precipitate is washed each time with 50 ml of water and methanol and dried at 50 in vacuo to obtain the heading compound as a pure cream product7 m.p. 2250 decomp. .d 7 Amino 3 1 methyl 1,2,3,4 tetrazol 5 yl thio methyl ceph 3 em 4 carboxylic acid Deacylation of the product obtained under b The evaporation residue after removal of methylisobutylketones is dissolved in 100 ml of methylenedichloride and mixed with 35 ml dimethylaniline. 25 ml of dimethyldichlorosilane are added with light cooling and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for 15 minutes. The mixture is cooled to 100 and 8 g of phosphorous pentachloride are added. The mixture is stirred for a further 45 minutes at 10 and is poured into 180 ml of methanol pre cooled to 200. After addition of 30 ml of water the pH value is adjusted to 3.5 with ammonium hydroxide solution 25 .The precipitate is filtered off, washed with water and methanol and dried at 500 in vacuo. The thus obtained cream product constitutes pure heading compound, m.p. 2250 decomp. .e 7 Amino 3 r 1 methyl 1,2,3,4 teXrazol 5 yl thiomethylZceph 3 em 4 carboxylic acid Deacylation of pure 7 N 2,2 diethoxycarbonyl vinyla 3 1 methyl 1,2,3,4 tetrazol 5 yl thiomethyl ceph 3 em 4 carboxylic acid or its sodium salt The method is carried out essentially as described under c or d to obtain the heading compound in the form of a cream powder, m.p. 2250 decomp. .NMR D2O, K2CO3 6 5.05 d, 1H, J 5 Hz, H7 4.80 d, lH, J 5 Hz, H6 4.20 q, 2H, J 13 Hz,C3 CH2 S 4.05 s, 3H, N CH3 3.55 q, 2H, J 18 Hz, C2 CH2 . EXAMPLE 17 7 Amino 3 l benzothiazol 2 yl thio methylZceph 3 em 4 carboxylic acid 21.4 g of 7 N 2,2 diethoxycarbonyl vinyl adipinamido 3 benzothiazol 2 yl thiomethyl3ceph 3 em 4 carboxylic acid sodium salt are suspended in 120 ml of methylene dichloride and 33 ml of dimethyl aniline are added. 28 ml of dimethyl dichlorosilane are added with slight cooling and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for 15 minutes, whereupon a clear solution results. This is cooled to 100 and 10 g of phosphorous pentachloride are added. After 45 minutes stirring at 60 to 100 the solution is poured in 180 ml of methanol pre cooled to 200. 30 ml of water are added and the pH value of the solution is adjusted to 3 with 25 ammonium hydroxide.The resulting precipitate is filtered off, washed with water and methanol and dried in vacua at 600.The resulting product constitutes pure heading compound, m.p. 2250 2300 decomp. .NMR D2O, K2CO3 6 7.8 7.0 m, 4H, Aryl Protonen 5.20 d, lH, J 5 Hz, Z7 5.00 d, 1H, J 5 Hz,H6 4.40 q, 2H, J 13 Hz, C3 CH2 S 3.45 q, 2H, J 18 Hz, 2 CH2 . The necessary N t 2,2 diethoxycarbonyl vinylZcephalo sporin C employed as starting material can be obtained in the following manner 14.2 g of Cephalosporin C monosodium salt dihydrate are dissolved in 30 ml of water. To the resulting mixture, 2.52 g of sodium bicarbonate are added, with stirring, in small portions. After gas evolution has ceased, the residual carbon dioxide is removed from the solution by warming to about 350. 10 ml of water are added followed by 5.7 g of ethoxymethylenemalonic acid diethyl ester, dissolved in 15 ml of acetone. After 6 hours stirring at room temperature, the acetone is evaporated off. The aqueous phase is extracted with ethyl acetate. The aqueous phase is adjusted to pH 2 and extracted again with ethyl acetate. The ethyl acetate phase is washed with water and dried. After removal of the solvent, the residue is rubbed with diisopropylether and dried in a desiccator, to obtain the heading compound, np. about 800 decomp. .