# Dicalcium phosphate dihydrate having improved stability and a method for preparing it.

## Abstract
Dicalcium phosphate dihydrate containing a sufficient amount of trimagnesium phosphate and or tetrasodium pyrophosphate to inhibit spontaneous hydrolysis and or decomposition of the dicalcium phosphate dihydrate is widely used as a dental polishing agent with and without added fluoride. Now it has been found that dicalcium phosphate dihydrate containing a sufficient amount of pyrophosphate to provide hydrolytic stability to the dical cium phosphate can have improved fluoride stability when about 0.1 weight percent to about 5 weight percent of trimagnesium phosphate, and about 0.1 weight percent to about 3 weight percent of at least one pharmaceutically acceptable condensed phosphate salt is added to the formulation. In the preferred embodiment less than 2 percent sodium tripolyphosphate provides satisfactory results.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method which comprises A providing calcium phosphate dihydrate containing a sufficient amount of pyrophosphate complex to provide at least some hydrolytic stability to the DCPD B adding to the dicalcium phosphate dihydrate from about 0.1 weight percent to about 5 weight percent trimagnesium phosphate, based.on the weight of the dicalcium phosphate dihydrate and C adding to the dicalcium phosphate dihydrate from about 0.1 weight percent to about 3 weight percent of a phermaceutically acceptable condensed phosphate salt, based on the weight of the calcium phosphate dehydrate. 2. A method of Claim 1 wherein the amount of pyrophosphate complex is from about 0.1 weight percent to about 5 weight percent P205 equivalent of pyrophosphate complex, based on the weight of the dicalcium phosphate dihydrate. 3. A method of Claim 2 wherein the amount of pyrophosphate complex is from about 0.5 weight percent to about 2.5 weight percent P205 equivalent of pyrophosphate complex. 4. A method of any of Claims 1 to 3wherein there is added to the dicalcium phosphate dihydrate from about 0.5 weight percent to about 2.5 weight percent trimagnesium phosphate. 5. A method of any of Claims 1 to 4 wherein there is added to the dicalcium phosphate dihydrate from aboutQ.3 weight percent to about 2 weight percent of at least one pharmaceutically acceptable condensed phosphate salt. 6. A method of any of Claims 1 to 5 wherein the pharmaceutically acceptable condensed phosphate salt is selected from pentasodium tripolyphosphate, sodium trimetap hosphate, disodium dihydrogen metaphosphate, tetrasodium pyrophosphate, and mixtures thereof. 7. A composition which comprises dicalcium phosphate dihydrate and a from about 0.1 weight percent to about 5 weight percent P205 equivalent of pyrophosphate complex b from about 0 1 weight percent to about 5 weight percent.trimagnesium phosphate and c from about 0.1 weight percent to about 3 weight percent of a pharmaceutically acceptable polyphosphate salt based on the weight of the dicalcium phosphate dihydrate. 8. A composition of Claim 7.wherein the amount of pyrophosphate complex is from about 0.5 weight percent to about 2.5 weight percent P205 equivalent. 9. A composition of either of Claims 7 and 8 wherein the amount of trimagnesium phosphate is from about 0.5 weight percent to about 2.5 weight percent. 10. A composition of any of Claims 7 to 9 wherein the amount of the pharmaceutically acceptable polyphosphatesalt is from about 0.3 weight percent to about 2 weight percent.

## Description
DICALCIUM PHOSPH TE. DIEDPSTE MVING IMPROVED STABILITY AND A METHOD FOR PREPARING IT The present invention relates to dentifrice abrasives, more particularly to dicalcium phosphate dihydrate having improved stability, and to a method for preparing it. Dicalcium orthophosphate dihydrate CaHP04.2H20 4 2 that..has been stabilized against spontaneous hydrolysis and or decomposition with a small amount of tetrasodium pyrophosphate in accordance with the processes such as those described by Moss et al in U.S. Patent 2,287,699 or with trimagnesium orthophosphate and the like has been utilized in dental preparations for many years. Indeed, calcium phosphate dihydrate frequently is stabilized against spontaneous hydrolysis and or decomposition with a small amount of both tetra sodium pyrophosphate aud trimagnesium phosphate in dental preparations. Furthermore, as is known to those skilled in the art, dentifrice formulations using calcium phosphate dihydrate frequently contain sodium or potassium monofluorophosphate as a source of fluoride ior. to inhibit or retard the formation of dental caries. Thus, the use of dicalcium phosphate dihydrate with sodium or potassium monofluorophosphate and stabilized against spontaneous hydrolysis and or decomposition with tetrasodium pyrophosphate and or trimagnesium phosphate, either with or without other polishing agents, are well known to those skilled in the art. Although satisfactory results are obtained using the dental formulations as set forth above, it has been found that over a period of time the soluble fluoride is lost from the dental formulations. For example, it has been found that dental formulations containing dicalcium phosphate dihydrate stabilized with tetrasodium pyrophosphate at up to 1 weight percent by weight P205, as pyrophosphate, or about 2 weight percent trimagnesium phosphate octahydrate, and sufficient sodium monofluorophosphate to provide about 1,000 parts per million soluble fluoride will lose a substantial amount cf the soluble fluoride after prolonged storage.Only a small improvement is seen when both trimagnesium phosphate and tetrasodium pyrophosphate are used together with respect to soluble fluoride stability. Although Applicants do not wish to be bound by any particular theory, it is believed that the loss o soluble fluoride in the formulation is related to the hydrolytic instability of the calcium phosphate dihydrate. It is believed that fluoride ion catalyzes the formation of calcium hydroxyapatite which then reacts with the soluble fluoride to form water insoluble calcium fluoroapatite and or calcium fluoride. Hence, it can be seen that improved fluoride stability of dicalcium phosphate dihydrate may improve stability against spontaneous hydrolysis and or decomposition. In any event, it can be seen that there is a need for a method of preparing calcium phosphate dihydrate which will provide greater amounts of soluble fluoride after prolonged storage. Now, a method to meet this need is provided. SUMt4ARY OF THE INVENTION These and other needs are achieved by a method which comprises . A providing dicalcium phosphate dihydrate chaining a sufficient amount of pyrophosphate complex to provide at least some hydrolytic stability to the DCPD B adding to the dicalcium phos phate dihydrate from about 0.1 weight percent to about 5 weight percent tri magnesium phosphate, based on the weight of the dicalcium phosphate dihydrate and C adding to the. dicalcium phos phate dihydrate from about 0.1 weight percent to about 3 weight percent of a pharmaceutically acceptable con densed phosphate salt, based on the weight of the dicalcium phosphate dihydrate. The term DCPD t as it is used in the specification and claims shall mean dicalcium phosphate dihydrate The term 1,pyrophosphate complex shall mean the chemical composition that is formed when a salt of a soluble pyrophosphate or calcium alkali metal pyrophosphate is added to DCPD during the precipitation stage to provide conventional hydrolytic stability to the DCPD. The term hydrolytic stability with respect to DCPD shall mean DCPD that has been stabilized against spontaneous hydrolysis and or decomposition. DCPD containing the pyrophosphate complex can be prepared by any number of techniques known to those skilled in the art. Generally, a basic calcium containing material such as calcium carbonate calcium oxide, calcium hydroxide and mixtures thereof, including mixtures commonly known as slaked lime, quick lime and hydrated lime, are added to dilute aqueous solutions of ortho . phosphoric acid to precipitate DCPD. Then, hydrolytic stability of the DCPD from the pyrophosphate complex is achieved by adding a calcium sodium pyrophosphate or a soluble pyrophosphate salt to the DCPD such as is disclosed in U.S. Patent 2,287,699 U.S. 3,012,852 U.S. 3,169,096 U.S. 3,411,873 and the like. In the preferred embodiment, the DCPD is prepared by adding 0.3 weight percent P205 equivalent of tetraalkali metal pyrophosphate to an aqueous mixture containing DCPD having a pH from about 5.5 to about 6.5 and then adding a sufficient amount of lime to the DCPD slurry to provide a pH from about 6.5 to about 8.0. The soluble pyrophosphate salts useful for preparing the pyrophosphate complex are well known to those skilled in the art. Tetraalkali metal pyrophosphates such as tetrasodium pyrophosphate and tetrapotassium pyrophosphate are preferred, and tetrasodium pyrophosphate TSPP is especially preferred to form the pyrophosphate complex.The amount of soluble pyrophosphate salt to be added to the DCPD to provide partial hydrolytic stability ranges from about 0.1 to about 5 percent by weight of P205, as pyrophosphate, based on the weight ot the DCPD. It is preferred to add the soluble pyrophosphate salt in an amount corresponding to an addition of from about 0.5 to about 2.5 percent by weight of P205, as pyrophosphate, based on the weight of the DCPD. On yet another basis, the soluble pyrophosphate salt is added in an amount which results in a DCPD containing from about 0.2 to about 2.5 percent by weight of pyrophosphate P205, which would represent typical stabilized DCPD. After the DCPD containing the pyrophosphate complex is recovered from the slurry and dried, trimagnesium phosphate is added by techniques known to the art, as for example, blending powdered trimagnesium phosphate with the DCPD. The amount of trimagnesium phosphate that can be used in the composition of the present invention can vary within wide limits. The beneficial effects of te trimagnesium phosphate are generally not observed at concentrations less than about 0.1 weight percent, based on the weight of theDCPD, and additional stability is not seen at concentrations above about 5 weight percent, based on the weight of the DCPD. It is preferred to add between about 0.5 weight percent and about 3 weight percent, based on the weight of the DCPD. In addition, the trimagnesium phosphate used in the method of the present invention is generally added as the octahydrate. However, other hydrates of magnesium phosphate may be equivalent since the exact form of the effective magnesium phosphate after it has been incorporated into a DCPD based toothpaste formulation is not known. Hence, anhydrostrimagnesium phosphate or trimagnesium phosphates containing 8 to 22 waters of hydration, or even dimagnesium phosphate hydrates, are deemed to be equivalent for purposes of this invention, although the use of trimagnesium phosphate with 8 waters of hydration is preferred. According to the process of the present invention there is also added to the DCPD from about 0.1 weight percent to about 3 weight percent, based on the weight of the DCPD, of at least one pharmaceutically acceptable condensed phosphate salt. The pharmaceutically acceptable condensed phosphate salt can be added to theDCPD by techniques known to the art, such as by blending the powdered condensed phosphate salt with tbe DCPD. In the method of the present invention, the pharmaceutically acceptable condensed phosphate salt and the trimagnesium phosphate can be added to the DCPD containing the pyrophosphate complex at any stage before the DCPD is incorporated into a toothpaste formulation.The order of addition is not believed to be important, but we prefer to add the triniagnesium phosphate to the DCPD before we add the pharmaceutically acceptable condensed phosphate salt. Any number of pharmaceutically acceptable condensed phosphate salts known to those skilled in the art can be used in the method of the present invention. Sodium, ammonium and potassium salts, either singly or admixed together or with other elements such as calcium and the like, are generally considered to be pharmaceutically acceptable.Hence, suitable condensed phosphate salts include the pharmaceutically acceptable salts of pyrophosphates, such as tetrasodium pyrophosphate, tetrapotassium pyrophosphate, disodium dihydrogen pyrophosphate commonly called sodium acid pyrophosphate , anhydrous or the hexahydrate, trisodium or tripbtassium pyrophosphate, and the like polyphosphates such as pentasodium tripolyphosphate, pentapotassium tripolyphosphate and hydrogen containing sodium or potassium tripolyphosphates Na4HP3010, K3H2P3010 and the like ultraphosphates metaphosphates , such as sodium metaphosphate and potassium metaphosphate and the like. Pentasodium tripolyphosphate is preferred. In addition to the above condensed phosphate salts, amorphous condensed phosphates can be used in the present method, Duch as the sodium phosphate glasses which extend from pure P205 to a composition near a Na2O P205 mole ratio of 1.7. The glass with the mole ratio of 1.0 is called hexametaphosphate sometimesGraham s salt and other glasses have been called polyphosphates with the degree of polymerization given by proximate analysis. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts of a compound having only one phosphorus atom, such as an orthophosphate, does not provide as much stability to the DCPD as provided by condensed phosphates, although their presence in the DCPD prepared by the method of the present invention is not harmful. Indeed, it may be desirable to add such a compound along with the condensed phosphate to obtain maximum fluoride stability. The amount of the pharmaceutically acceptable condensed phosphate salt can vary within wide limits.Although beneficial effects are observed at concentrations as low as about 0.1 percent, based on the weight of the DCPD, it is preferred to use higher concentrations, say greater than about 0.3 weight percent. There does not seem to be a beneficial effect in using more than about 3 weight percent, based on the.weight of the DCPD, and the presence of higher concentrations of condensed phosphates may degrade soluble fluorflde stability to some degree. The exact concentration of the pharmaceutically acceptable condensed phosphate salts will depend upon a number of factors, as will occur to those skilled in the art in view of the present disclosure, such as the amount of trimagnesium phosphate and the amount of the pyrophosphate complex, the grade of the DCPD, the particular condensed phosphate salt used and the like.However, it is preferred to add between about 0.3 weight percent and about 2 weight percent, based on the weight of theDCPD. The mechanism by which the pyrophosphate complex and the trimagnesium phosphate and the condensed phosphate salts provide the superior soluble fluroide stability to DCPD is not understood. At first,.it was believed that since the condensed phosphate salts are known to be strong calcium sequestering agents, the superior results were achieved by this action. However, when a DCPD composition containing the pyrophosphate complex and trimagnesium complex was admixed with trisodium nitrilotriacetate or tetrasodium ethylenediamine tetraacetate, the hydrolytic stability of the resulting DCPD was not as good as the stability obtained by the present method. The DCPD prepared by the present method can be used in toothpaste formulations with alkali metal monofluorophosphates such as sodium monofluorophosphate, potassium monofluorophosphate and the like.Sodium monofluorophosphate is preferred for use withDPCD. The DCPD prepared by the present method can be combined with other dental polishing agents, as will occur to those skilled in the art. Such dental polishing agents include, but are not limited to, insoluble metaphosphates, silica gels, alumina, chalk and the like. Although satisfactory results are achieved using the DCPD prepared by the present method, it may be desirable to add an additional polishing agent such as anhydrous dicalcium orthophosphate, i.e., precipitated anhydrous dicalcium orthophosphate, in order to clean teeth that are very heavily coated with discoloring material, food particles, tartar and the like. The preparation of such DCPD containing a minor amount of such additional polishing agents is known to those skilled in the art, such as described in U.S. Patent 3,334,979. In the formation of finished dentifrice compositions containing DCPD prepared by the present method, practically any of the auxiliary agents that are convey tionally utilized in toothpastes and or tooth powder formulations can be used. Toothpastes, for example, will generally contain a source of fluoride ion, such as sodium monofluorophosphate a sweetener, such as saccharin a humectant, such as sorbitol or glycerine a binding agent, such as hydroethyi cellulose, carboxymethyl cellulose, and the like a sudsing agent, such as sodium lauryl sulfate, sucrose monolaurate or tridecyl alcohol that has been reacted with from about 3 to about 10 moles of ethylene oxide per mole of alcohol and a flavoring agent. In toothpastes, the level of the DCPD that is utilized can generally be varied from about 20 to about 60 weight percent, and preferably from about 30 to about 45 weight percent of the formulation. As noted above, the DCPD prepared by the present method need not be the only polishing agent in the dentifrice formulation, although it is generally preferred that DCPD represents at least about half of all of the polishing agents in the dentifrice formulation. DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS This invention is illustrated by, but not limited to, the following Examples wherein all percentages are by weight unless otherwise indicated. EXAMPLE I An aqueous slurry containing DCPD is prepared by the reaction of phosphoric acid and lime in an aqueous media. The resulting slurry contains approximately 30 percent DCPD and the slurry pH is 5.8. A 2780 gram sample of the DCPD aqueous slurry with pH adjusted to 6.5 using lime slurry 13.5 percentCaO is charged to a one gallon reactor equipped with stirrer. There is added to this slurry 188 grams of a 9 percent TSPP aqueous solution 2 percent TSPP based on the DCPD present and the mixture is stirred for 45 minutes at about 290 C. The pH is then adjusted to about 7.7 with aqueous lime slurry 13.5 percent CaO and the solid DCPD product is separated from the slurry, dried and milled. A small portion of the sample was separated and the P 205 levels corresponding to the pyrophosphate complex present is determined substantially in accordance with the well known ion exchange method for analysis of sodium triphosphate ASTM D 2671 70 reapproved 1975 ,. entitled Standard Method for Analysis of SodiumTriphosphate by the Simplified Ion Exchange Method .The pyrophosphate complex content is found to be about 0.5 percent. Portions of the above DCPD containing the pyrophosphate complex, after drying and milling, are blended with powdered trimagnesium phosphate and or powdered condensed phosphates, and used to prepare a toothpaste formulation similar to that disclosed inU.S. 3,308,029 issued March 7, 1967 which is typical of those that are commercially available, except for flavor. It contains about 1,000 ppm added fluoride.The formulation is set forth below Parts by Weight Glycerine 21.8 DCPD 49.6 Sodium Lauryl Sulfate 1.5 Saccharin 0.2 Water 25.2 Sodium Monofluorophosphate 0.8 Carboxymethyl Cellulose. 0.9 100.0 Samples of the above paste are transferred to plastic bottles. Thereaftr, the plastic bottles are stoppered and placed in an oven at 500 C. for six weeks as an accelerated test to simulate two years storage atambient temperature. After the six weeks storage, the bottles are removed from the oven and the soluble fluoride concentration of the formulation is measured potentiometrically. The results of the storage after six weeks are shown in Table 1. TABLE 1 FLUORIDE STABILITYRUN POWDERED ADDITIVE TO DCPDa SOLUBLE F Identity Wt REMAINING ppm 1 190 2 Sodium Tripolyphosphate 1 290 3 Trimagnesium Phosphate 2 390 4 Trimagnesium Phosphate 3 390 5 Trimagnesium Phosphate 2 430 Glassy Sodium Poly phosphateb 1 6 Trimagnesium Phosphate 2. 455 Sodium Hexametaphosphate l 7 Trimagnesium Phosphate 2 490 Sodium Trimetaphosphate 1 8 Trimagnesium Phosphate 2 490 SQ Glassy Phosphate 1 9 Trimagnesium Phosphate 2 495 Tetrasodium Pyrophos phate 1 10 Trimagnesium Phosphate 2 565 Pentasodium Tripoly phosphate 1 aDCPD aDCPD containing 0.5 percent pyrophosphate complex containing about 200 phosphorus atoms C available commercially from Monsanto Company, St.Louis, Missouri EXAMPLE II The procedure of Example I is repeated. The added soluble fluoride content of the toothpaste fqrmu . lation is about 1,000 ppm. The results are shown inTable 2. TABLE 2 FLUORIDE STABILITYRUN PONDERED ADDITIVE TO DCPD SOLUBLE F Identity Wot RE IAINING ppm 11 Trimagnesium Phosphate 2 510 12 Trimagnesium Phosphate 5 13 Pentasodium Tripolyphosphate 0.5 330 Sodium Metaphosphate 0.5 14 Pentasodium Tripolyphosphate 0.5 290 Disodium Dihydrogen Pyro phosphate 0.5 15 Trimagnesium Phosphate 2 570 Pentasodium Tripolyphosphate 2. 16 Trimagnesium Phosphate 2 550 Pentasodium Tripolyphosphate 1.5 17 Trimagnesium Phosphate 2 570 Pentasodium Tripolyphosphate 1 18 Trimagnesium Phosphate 2 600 Pentasodium Tripolyphosphate 0.5 Sodium Hexametaphosphate 0.5 19 Trimagnesium Phosphate 2 590 Pentasodium Tripolyphosphate 0.5 Disodium Dihydrogen Pyrophos phate 0.5 EXAMPLE III A sample of. the DCPD from Example II is blended with 2 percent trimagnesium phosphate, 1 percent pentasodium i ripolyphosphate and 0.05 percent monosodium phosphate. When the DCPD is used in the toothpaste formulation of Example II containing about 1,000 ppm soluble fluoride and stored for six weeks at 50 C., about. 610 ppm soluble fluoride remains after the test.