# Decorative trim strip.

## Abstract
A trim strip comprises a surface layer 12 which is made of transparent or translucent surface lustrous thermoplastic plastics material, a reinforcing layer 11 which is made of ferrous metal based metal leaf and an intermediate layer 13 which is located between the surface layer and the reinforc ing layer and which is made of thermoplastic plastics material such as to enable connection to be made between them.

## Claims
Claims 1. A trim strip of the type comprising a surface layer formed of an inherently transparent or translucent thermoplastic plastics material having a surface lustre and a metal reinforcing layer consisting of a leaf or plate, characterised in that the metal reinforcing layer 11 is based on a ferrous metal and in that, disposed between the surface layer 12 and the reinforcing layer 11 is an intermediate layer 13 formed of thermoplastic plastics material adhered to the surface layer and connecting the surface layer to the reinforcing layer. 2. A trim strip according to claim 1, wherein the surface layer 12 is formed of a cellulosic plastics material. 3. A trim strip according to claim 2, wherein the surface layer 12 is formed of cellulose acetate, cellulose acetate butyrate, cellulose propionate or cellulose acetate propionate. 4. A trim strip according to claim 1, wherein the surface layer 12 is formed of an acrylic plastics material. 5. A trim strip according to claim 4, wherein the surface layer 12 is formed of a homopolymer or copolymer of methyl methacrylate. 6. A trim strip according to claim 1, wherein the surface layer 12 is formed of a plastics material selected from polyvinyl chloride, polyethylene terephthalate polybutylene terephthalate, polycarbonate or an ionomer. 7. A trim strip according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the reinforcing layer 11 is formed of stainless steel leaf. 8. A trim strip according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the intermediate layer 13 is formed of acrylonitrile butadiene styrene copolymer. 9. A trim strip according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the intermediate layer 13 is adhered toEMI8.1 surface layer 12 as a result either of co extrusion therewith or as a result of adhesive bonding thereto. 10. A trim strip according to any one of the preceding claims, which is installed in a vehicle body as a roof drip trim, a boot trim or a window trim.

## Description
DECORATIVE TRIM STRIP This invention relates to a decorative plastic trim strip and, in particular, but not exclusively, to a plastic trim strip for a vehicle such as an automobile, the strip being of multilayer construction and comprising, as a base layer, a reinforcing layer containing metal leaf. Various kinds of plastic trim strips are used to decorate furniture, for example, edges of the furniture.These trim strips are usually made of transparent plastics materials, such as cellulose acetate or polyvinyl chloride, in which is embedded or which adheres to a decorative material made of nonferrous metal leaf, such as aluminium foil. The decorative material may also be a decorative plastics film to which a metal, such as aluminium, has been applied and which is embedded in or applied to the transparent plastics material. A trim strip of this type is light, since the decorative material comprises a nonferrous metal, and, accordingly, they are particularly suitable for decorating furniture or the like. Furthermore, the nonferrous metal leaf serves to impart a surface lustre to the trim. However, when a decorative trim of such construction is used on an automobile such as a roof drip trim, a boot trim, or a window trim, it possesses insufficient rigidity. For example, a roof drip trim for an automobile usually has a substantially C shaped profile in the channel of which a channelled member of a roof of a vehicle body is fitted. However, when the roof drip trim is mounted to the vehicle body, the fit tends to loosen because of the low rigidity of the trim. In time the trim becomes displaced relative to the vehicle body or the trim easily comes out of the channelled member even when the trim is only subject to a small impact or shock. It is therefore very important to increase the rigidity of such a decorative trim construction when used in automobile construction. According to the present invention, there is provided a trim strip of the type comprising a surface layer formed of an inherently transparent or translucent thermoplastic plastics material having a surface lustre and a metal reinforcing layer consisting of a leaf or plate, characterised in that the metal reinforcing. layer is based on a ferrous metal and in that, disposed between the surface layer and the reinforcing layer is an intermediate layer formed of thermoplastic plastics material adhered to the surface layer and connecting the surface layer to the reinforcing layer. A trim embodying the present invention includes a reinforcing layer made of a plate or leaf of ferrous metal, in particular steel especially stainless steel.It is very difficult to adhere ferrous metal, such as steel or stainless steel, to transparent plastics materials, and, particularly, to cellulosic plastics materials which are usually used to make decorative trim for automobiles.Therefore,consideration has had to be directed also to the problem of achieving adhesion between the reinforcing layer and the plastics body of the trim. It is for this reason that an intermediate layer bondable to both the reinforcing layer and the surface layer is used. For a better understanding of the invention and to show how the same can be carried into effect reference will now be made by way of example only to the accompanying drawings in which FIGURE 1 is a transverse cross section through a roof drip trim embodying this invention fitted over a channelled member of a roof of a vehicle body FIGURE 2 is a transverse cross section through an alternative form of roof drip trim FIGURE 3 is a transverse cross section through a further form of roof drip trim FIGURE 4 is a transverse cross section through a motor vehicle boot embodying this invention which is shown fitted on a boot defining panel FIGURE 5 is a transverse cross section through a window trim embodying this invention which is mounted in spaced relationship with respect to one end of a window glass and to a vehicle body panel, and FIGURE 6 is a transverse cross section through another form of window trim embodying this invention which is shown connected to one end of a window glass. Referring to the drawings in which like reference numerals denote like parts, a trim embodying the present invention comprises a reinforcing layer 11 made of a ferrous metal based leaf, a lustrous transparent or translucent thermoplastic plastics surface layer 12, and a thermoplastic plastics intermediate layer 13 which adheres to the plastics material of the surface layer 12.the reinforcing layer 11 and the surface layer 12 are rigidly interconnected by means of the intermediate layer 13. The trim is generally of C shaped profile with the reinforcing layer 11 being located on the inner surface of the trim to impart to and maintain in its intended shape the trim the reinforcing layer, as its name suggests, increases the rigidity of the trim. The reinforcing layer 11 is made of ferrous metal based plate or leaf with a high rigidity, such as steel especially stainless steel. The surface layer 12 is a visible decorative layer and made of a transparent or translucent thermoplastic plastics material which has a lustrous appearance and which will generally be a material having high surface hardness, a high workability and a good weatherproof quality. A plastics material suitable for this purpose may be a cellulosic plastics material, for example cellulose acetate, cellulose acetate butyrate, cellulose propionate or cellulose acetate propionate an acrylic plastics material, for example a homopolymer or copolymer of methylmethacrylate, or polyvinyl chloride, polyethylene terephthalate, polybutylene terephthalate, polycarbonate, or an ionomer. These plastics materials are generally characteristically transparent or translucent and accordingly any one of them can be used for the surface layer of the trim. In order to increase the decorative effect, it is also possible to incorporate pigments and or other additives in the plastics materials, so that the plastics material becomes translucent or opaque. Furthermore, when a plastics material of one of the aforementioned types is coloured, the lustrous character is generally enhanced. The intermediate layer 13 is located between the reinforcing layer 11 and the surface layer 12 to connect the two layers. The intermediate layer 13 is therefore made of a thermoplastic plastics material which is compatible both with the plastics material forming the surface layer 12 or which can be firmly bonded to the surface layer by means of an adhesive. Preferably, the intermediate layer 13 is made of a thermoplastic plastics material which can also be bonded to the ferrous metal leaf or plate forming the reinforcing layer 11. Further more, when the trim is used as a decorative trim for an automobile, the material of the intermediate layer preferably has a high rigidity and heat resistance. The intermediate layer 13 is usually coloured to match the colour of the body panel on which the trim is to be mounted, thereby to increase the decorative and aesthetic character of the trim, especially in view of the transparent or translucent character of the surface layer 12. As mentioned above, the material of the intermediate layer 13 will depend inter alia on the material of the surface layer 12. Typically, when the surface layer 12 is made from polyvinyl chloride, the intermediate layer 13 is preferably made of ABS acrylonitrile butadiene styrene copolymer . With a combination of polyvinyl chloride andABS, these two materials can be adhered to each other by means of an adhesive. Alternatively, it is also possible to connect the two materials by co extruding them in which case there is no need to use an adhesive. The intermediate layer 13 of ABS can be easily and fixedly connected to the reinforcing layer 11 by means of an adhesive, for example a thermosetting acrylic adhesive.ABS has a high rigidity and a good heat resistance and accordingly is particularly suitable for use in the production of intermediate layers of various kinds of decorative trims such as illustrated in the drawings. Materials other than ABS, from which the intermediate layer 13 can be made include the following thermoplastic plastics materials AES acrylonitrile ethylenepropylenediene rubber styrene AAS acrylonitrile acrylic rubber styrene , ACS acrylonitrile chlorinated polyethylene styrene MBS methacrylic butadiene styrene polycarbonate polyphenylene oxide polyphenylene sulphide and, polyamide. These plastics materials will generally be selected in relation to the plastics material from which the surface layer is made. The combination of the reinforcing layer 11 and the surface layer 12 through the intermediate layer 13 is illustrated in Figures 1 3 which show three different constructions of trim. In Figure 1, trim 10A includes three layers consisting of the surface layer 12, the intermediate layer 13 and the reinforcing layer 11, which are disposed on one another in this order. In trim 10A shown in Figure 2, the reinforcing layer 11 is embedded in the intermediate layer 13 which is coated with the visible surface layer 12. In trim 10A shown in Figure 3, the intermediate layer 13 in which the reinforcing layer 11 is embedded is completely enveloped by the surface layer 12. Thus, in Figure 3, the intermediate layer 13 is also covered at its rear side by the surface layer 12.In Figures 2 and 3, the reinforcing layer 11 is preferably located near the rear or inner surface of the trim so that when the trim is fitted, for example, to a panel 20 of a vehicle body not shown as shown in Figure 1, a large connecting or fitting force can be applied. Generally speaking, ferrous metal leaf or plate, of which the reinforcing layer 11 is made, cannot be easily bonded to transparent or translucent plastics materials and particularly to cellulosic plastics materials, of which the surface layer 12 is made. However, transparent or translucent plastics materials have the advantage of highly colour toned brightness and attractive lustre, and, accordingly, nevertheless transparent or translucent plastics materials should be used to make the surface layer of the decorative trim.It ie because of this difficulty sometimes encountered in bonding some transparent or translucent plastics materials to the reinforcing layer 11 that one of the features of decorative trims embodying the present invention resides in the provision of the intermediate layer 13 which makes it possible reliably to connect the surface layer 12 and the reinforcing layer 11. The intermediate layer is made of a plastics material which can be selected from a relatively wide range of materials. The intermediate layer 13 has a thickness sufficient to ensure the rigidity of the trim.Furthermore, the thickness of the intermediate layer 13 should determine the thickness of the trim, since an increase in the thickness of the intermediate layer 13 increases the thickness of the trim. It is possible to provide a coloured intermediate layer 13 to which a transparent surface layer 12 is applied in order to increase the decorative effect of the trim which will now result from a combination of the colour of the intermediate layer and the transparent character of the surface layer 12. In addition to the above described forms of decorative trim embodying this invention, other forms of decorative trim embodying this invention which are particularly suitable for use as a plastic trim for an automobile and which possess a good decorative effect and a high rigidity are shown in Figures 4 to 6 of the accompanying drawings. In trim lOB illustrated in Figure 4, the trim is connected to a panel 20 by means of resilience of the trim edges and adhesive 25 bonding the panel 20 to the reinforcing layer 11 at a position within the C profile of the trim. In Figure 5 trim 10C which is attached to a panel 20 by a clip 27 covers a peripheral edge of a window glass 21 which is bonded to the panel 20 by adhesive 25. Finally referring to Figure 6, a protective layer 19 which is made, for example of soft polyvinyl chloride, is shaped and positioned so as to prevent the trim from coming into direct contact with the panel 20 and the window glass 21 and to prevent foreign substances, such as dust, from entering the gap between the window glass and the trim. The protective layer 19 also contributes to the prevention of displacement of the trim and to prevention of the occurrence of rattling noise which otherwise would occur. The trim lOD is connected to the panel 20 by means of a clip 26 anchored therein.