# Inhibition of scale deposition.

## Abstract
Glassy polyphosphates are used as threshold scale inhibitors in strongly acid waters. The content of glassy polyphosphate is 0.1 to 500 mg l of water.

## Claims
WE CLAIM 1. A method for inhibiting the precipitation of scale forming salts in a strongly acidic aqueous system which comprises adding to the aqueous system from 0.1 to 500 mg l of a glassy polyphosphate. 2. A method as in Claim 1 wherein the concentration of polyphosphate is from 0.1 to 100 mg l. 3. A method as in Claim 1 wherein the glassy polyphosphate has a mole ratio of metal oxide to phosphorus pentoxide from 1 1 to 2 1. 4. A method as in Claim 1 wherein the strongly acidic aqueous system has a pH of less than 4.

## Description
INHIBITION OF SCALE DEPOSITION This invention relates to methods of inhibi ting scale formation. More particularly, this invention relates to the use of inorganic polyphosphates as threshold inhibitors of scale formation in strongly acid waters. Most industrial waters contain alkaline earth metal cations such as calcium, barium, magnesium, etc. and several anions such as bicarbonate, carbonate, sulfate, oxalate, phosphate, silicate, fluoride, etc. When combinations of these anicns and cations are present in concentrations which exceed the solubility of their reaction products, precipitates form until these product solubility concentrations are no longer exceeded. For example, when the concentrations of calcium ion and sulfate ion exceed the solubility of the calcium sulfate reaction products, a solid phase of calcium sulfate will form. As these reaction products precipitate on surfaces of the water carrying system, they form scale or deposits. This accumulation prevents effective heat transfer, interferes with fluid flow, facilitates corrosive processes and harbors bacteria. Th scale is an expensive problem in many industrial water systems, causing delays and shutdowns for cleaning and removal. Scale forming compounds can be prevented from precipitating by inactivating their cations with chelating or sequestering agents so that the solubility product of their reaction products is not exceeded. Generally, this requires many times as much chelating or sequestering agent as cation, and these amounts are not always desirable or economical The scale control process described herein is not based on sequestration or chelation which requir stoichiometric or greater concentrations of inhibitcOn the other hand, our inhibitors are effective at concentrations many times less than stoichiometric mole mole relationships and will be referred to as threshold inhibitor concentrations.These concentra tions, in the low milligrams liter range, are effective through the control of crystal nucleation and crystal growth, and the inhibition will be called threshold scale inhibition. It is well known that many of the conventional threshold scale inhibitors are markedly less effective in acid waters than they are in neutral or alkaline waters. The low molecular weight polyacrylate is half as effective at pH 4.0 as it is at pE 6.5 and aminotris methylenephosphonic acid shows an even greater weakness under the same conditions. Similarly, hydroxyethylidene di phosphonic acid is a poor threshold inhibitor for calcium sulfate scale in neutral waters, but is very effective in highly alkaline waters. It is, therefore, apparent that there is n need for an effective threshold inhibitor that is effective in strongly acid waters having solution pH values below 4, preferably below 2.These conditions are often found in applications involving gas scrubbers, evaporators and process liquids. The present invention provides a method for inhibiting the precipitation of scale forming salts in a strongly acidic aqueous system which comprises adding to the aqueous system from 0.1 to 500 mg l of a glassy polyphosphate. The glassy polyphosphates having molar ratios of metal oxide phosphorus pentoxide MO P205 of about 1 1 to 2 1 are especially effective threshold scale inhibitors in strongly acid waters. The metal oxide may be any individual metal oxide or mixture of metal exides which will yield the desired solubility of the polyphosphate glass, as for example, Na20, CaO, ZnO, MgO or mixtures thereof. Typical glassy pelyphesphates found to be useful in con trolling deposits in low pli waters are noted in the following table. Ratio Metal Oxide Inhibitor MO PvOe MO CALGO 1.1 1.0 Na2O MICROME g IOG 1.1 1.0 No20, CaO, MgOSQ Phosphate 1.35 1.0 Na2OTG 10 1.67 1.0 Na2O, ZnO The polyphosphates useful in the present invention shc lc be maintained in ne aqueous system being treated at a concentration range of about 0.1 to 500 milligrams liter, preferably 0.1 to 100 milligrams liter. The present invention will be more readily understood upon reference to the following discussion and experiments. Stagnant flask threshold screening tests were used to determine the effectiveness of inhibitors in the prevention of calcium sulfate CaSO4.2HO barium sulfate BaSO4 and calcium oxalate GaC2O4 scale. The threshold stability measurements were carried out after storage of the uninhibited and inhibited supersaturated solutions at pH 1.4 to 1.6 for 4 hours, 24 hours and longer at 750F. The saturation levels of the several scaleforming salts and equilibrium solubilities for the 4 hour and 24 hour storage periods are shown in the following table. Note that the equilibrium solubilities of all of the salts are lower after 24 hours than after 4 hours as the individual solubilities approach equilibrium conditions. This means that supersaturation levels of the scale forming salts are higher and the equilibrium solubility of these scale forming salts are lower as the storage time increases. Hours 24 Hours Equi Equi librium librium Concen Concen Satu tration Satu tration Scale ration mg l ration mg l CaSO4 21120 1.2X 14,590 2.7X 6,380 BaSO4 3.6X 65 12.5X 19 CaC2O4 1.7X 488 In the stagnant flask tests, readily soluble salt solutions of the scale forming anion and cation were mixed in the presence and absence of inhibitor and maintained as supersaturated solutions at the desired acidity pH 1.4 to 1.6 for the stated storage time. At the end of the test cycle, the clear supernatant solutions were analyzed for the scale forming cation Ca , Ba 2 via titration with chelating agent or atomic absorption.When all the Ca 2 or Ba 2 introduced into the test was found, the scale inhibition was judged 100 percentThe Ca 2 or Ba 2 concentration found in the test solution when no inhibitor was present would be equivalent to the equilibrium concentration and 0 percent scale inhibition. Intermediate concentrations of Ca 2 or Ba 2 represented intermediate levels of percent scale inhibition. The percent threshold scale inhibition exhibited by these typical glassy polyphosphates in strongly acid waters yielding scale forming salts is shown in the following tables. TABLE I CaSO4 2H2O PERCENT THRESHOLD INHIBITION 24 C pH 1.4 to 1.6 Concentration ma l Time Inhibitor 3 5 15 25 50 100 hrs. No Inhibitor 0 0 0 0 0 0 CALGON 100 81 98 86 4 25 97 100 24 90 48 25 48 87 168SQ Phosphate 76 81 95 4 13 34 38 24 TABLE II BaSO4 PERCENT THRESHOLD INHIBITION 24 C pH 1.4 to 1.6 Concentration mg l Time Inhibitor 1 5 15 25 50 100 hrs. No Inhibitor 0 0 0 0 0 0 CALGON 21 78 86 89 89 4 33 82 91 89 89 24 33 87 87 85 85 48 13 87 87 85 168SQ Phosphate 17 67 86 4 18 80 87 24 1 80 87 48 6 66 87 168TG 10 71 78 100 4 28 39 66 24 TABLE II Continued Concentration mg l Time Inhibitor 1 5 15 24 50 hrs. MICROMET IOG 98 100 4 86 100 24 94 100 48 TABLE III CaC2O4 PERCENT THRESHOLD INHIBITION 24 C pH 1.4 to 1.6 Concentration mg l Time Inhibitor 1 5 15 50 100 hrs. No Inhibitor 0 0 t 0 0 0 CALGON 100 100 100 24 93 93 48 95 95 120 TG 10 33 100 100 24 93 93 48 89 78 120 MICROMET IOG 100 100 24 93 100 48 100 97 120 The glassy polyphosphates are also effective threshold inhibitors for scale forming salts in strongly acid waters and at elevated temperatures. In the following table, experimental data indicate that threshold concentrations of the glassy polyphosphates CALGON and SQ Phosphate effectively controlCaSO4 2H2O at 65 C and pH 1.4 to 1.6. TABLE IV CaSO4 2H2O PERCENT THRESHOLD INHIBITION 65 C pH 1.4 to 1.6 Concentration mg l Time Inhibitor 25 hrs. No Inhibitor 0 CALGON 92 1 63 4SQ Phosphate 61 1 37 4