# Quinoxaline derivatives and herbicidal composition.

## Abstract
Novel quinoxaline derivatives are disclosed having the general formula These compounds have selective herbicidal activity against gramineous weeds, without phytotoxicity towards broad leaved plants. Typical herbicidal compositions con taining these compounds are also described.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A quinoxaline derivative characterised by the general formula EMI34.1 wherein X represents a CF3 or CH3 group and R represents a group of formulaEMI34.2 CH CHCOORê, R represents a C1 C4 alkyl group CN or CH2OH or COR wherein RÚ represents OH, 0 alkali metal, O lower alkyl group, O halogenoalkyl group, O cyanoalkl group, O lower alkoxyalkyl group, O lower alkenyl group, O lower alkynyl group, O cyclohexyl group, O phenyl group,EMI34.3 C CH2 2SCH3, EMI34.4 S R R represents a lower alkyl or phenyl group orEMI34.5 R4 and respectively represent a hydrogen atom, a lower alkyl group, a phenyl group or CH2COOC2H5 . 2. A quinoxaline derivative according to claim 1, characterised by the formulaEMI35.1 wherein X represents CF3 or CH3 and Rb represents a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group, a lower alkoxyalkyl group, a lower alkenyl group, a lower alkynyl group, a phenyl group or a cyclohexyl group. 3. A quinoxaline derivative according to claim 1, characterised by the formula EMI35.2 wherein R4 and R5 respectively represent a hydrogen atom, a lower alkyl group, a phenyl group or CH2COOC2H5. 4. A quinoxaline derivative according to claim 1, characterised by the formula EMI35.3 wherein R representsEMI36.1 5. A quinoxaline derivative according to claim 1, characterised by the formula EMI36.2 wherein R7 represents a lower alkyl group. 6. A herbicidal composition which comprises a herbicidally active compound and an agricultural adjutant, characterised in that the active ingredient is a quinoxaline derivative as defined in any preceding claim. 7. A herbicidal composition according to claim 6, characterised in that it comprises 0.5 to 95 wt. of the active ingredient and 99.5 to 5 wt. of the adjuvant. 8. A herbicidal composition according to claim 6 or claim 7, characterised in that it is in a form of a solution, an emulsifiable concentrate or a wettable powder.

## Description
QUINOXALINE DERIVATIVES AND HERBICIDAL COMPOSITION The present invention relates to novel quinoxaline derivatives and herbicidal compositions containing the same. Although a wide range of herbicidal compounds have been used in the past to reduce labour works and to improve the proauctivities of agricultural and horticultural crop plants, there is still a need for novel herbicides having superior herbicidal characteristics. Herbicides for agricultural and horticultural purposes are preferably compounds small doses of which selectively control specific weeds without having any toxic effect on the crop plants. The knout herbicides do not always have these optimum herbicide characteristics. The inventors have worked on the development of useful new herbicides and in particular have studied the herbicizal characteristics of various heterocyclic compounds. Substituted pyridyloxyphenoxy fatty acid herbicides are examples of heterocyclic ether type phenoxy fatty acid derivatives having herbicidal activity, and are disclosed in Japan Unexamined Patent PublicationNo. 06735 1976. Benzimidazole, benzthiazole, and benzoxazole derivatives and their herbicidal effects have been described in Japanese Vnexamined Patent PublicationNo. 40767 1978. The present invention provides novel quinoxaline derivatives having the formula EMI2.1 wherein X represents a CF3 or CH3 group and R represents a group of formulaEMI2.2 CH CHCOORê, R2 represents a C1 C4 alkyl group CN, CH20H or COR wherein R represents a group of formula OH, 0 alkali metal, O lower alkyl group, O halogenoalkyl group, 0cyanoalkyl group, O lower alkoxyalkyl group, O lower alkenyl qroup, O lower alkynyl group, O cyclohexyl group, O phenyl group,EMI2.3 O CHCOOC2H5, O CH2 2SCH3, CH3EMI2.4 , S R3 R3 represents a lower alkyl or phenyl group , orEMI2.5 R4 and R5 respectively represent a hydrogen atom, a lower alkyl group, a phenyl group or CH2COOC2H5 . The quinoxaline derivatives having the formula I defined above are novel compounds having characteristic herbicidal properties, and are particularly effective for controlling gramineous weeds having no phytotoxicity towards broad 3eaf crop plants or broad leaf weeds especially in a post emergence treatment. Such unique characteristics have not previously been found. Typical compounds of the present invention having the formula I are shown in Table 1 together with their physical properties. The scope of the present invention is not of course limited to the particular compounds shown in Table 1. EMI4.1 EMI4.2 tb Corn SEP . SEP No SEP . SEP X SEP R SEP Physical SEP Property tb SEP 1 SEP CF3 SEP COOH SEP mp SEP 141 143 C SEP W.C. tb SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP COONa SEP rnpZ500C SEP w.C. tb SEP COOCH3 SEP rnp93 950C SEP W.C. tb SEP 4 SEP SEP COOC2Rg SEP mp SEP 68 700C SEP W.C. tb SEP 5 SEP ii SEP COOC3H7 i SEP mp SEP 121 123 C SEP 7.C. tb SEP l SEP COOC4Hg sec SEP W.C. tb SEP 7 SEP SEP COO CH2 2C1 SEP W. SEP C. tb SEP 8 SEP COOCH2CN SEP mp SEP 115 117tC SEP W.C. tb SEP 9 SEP ii SEP Coo CH2 SEP 2 SEP OCH3 SEP mp SEP 91 9Z0C tb 10 SEP Coo CH2 2N CH3 Z SEP I SEP w.c. tb SEP 11 SEP II tb SEP COOCHC SEP OOCZH SEP 5 tb SEP 12 SEP SEP COOCHZCii SEP CH2 SEP mp SEP 72 74 C SEP i.C. tb 13 SEP COOCH2C CH SEP mp SEP 92 SEP 93 SEP C SEP W SEP a SEP C SEP . tb 14 SEP SEP COO DH SEP rnp SEP 78 79 C SEP W.C. tb 15 SEP ., SEP COO SEP mp SEP 107 1 SEP 09 C SEP V.C. tb 16 SEP COSCN3 SEP mp SEP 109 1100C SEP MT SEP . SEP C. tb 17 SEP SEP CON CE3 2 SEP mp SEP 121 lZ3 C SEP W.C. tb 18 SEP 1 SEP CONH SEP W. SEP C. tb 19 SEP SEP CONTHCHzCOOC2H5 SEP W. SEP C. tb EMI5.1 tb SEP Corn SEP No. SEP X SEP R SEP Physical SEP Property tb SEP 20 SEP CF3 SEP 7 N SEP 2 SEP mp SEP 153 155 C SEP W.C. tb SEP 21 SEP SEP C N2iCH3 SEP W.C. tb SEP 20 tb SEP 22 SEP SEP CH CHCOOCH3 SEP ND SEP 1.5485 SEP Colorless SEP liq. tb SEP 20 tb 23 SEP SEP CH CHCOOC2H5 SEP ND0 1.5433 SEP Colorless SEP liq. tb SEP 24 SEP SEP CN SEP mp SEP 108 109 C SEP w.C. tb SEP 25 SEP SEP CH2 SEP W.C. tb SEP 26 SEP CH3 SEP COOH SEP W.C. tb SEP 27 SEP SEP COOCH3 SEP mp SEP 118 120 C tb SEP 28 SEP SEP COOCZHF SEP mp SEP 91 92 C tb SEP 29 SEP SEP COOC3H7 i SEP mp SEP 102 103 C SEP W.C. tb SEP 30 SEP t SEP I SEP COO CH2 2SCH3 SEP W.C. tb SEP 3 tb SEP 31 SEP SEP COON CCH3 SEP W.C. tb SEP CH3 tb 32 SEP COS SEP e SEP W.C. tb The compound I of the present invention can be produced by the following processes. A The compound of the present invention can be produced by a condensation of a compound having the formulaEMI6.1 wherein X is defined above Hal designates a halogen atom with 4hydroxyphenoxy fatty acid derivative having the formulaEMI6.2 wherein R is defined above, in the presence of an inorganic or organic base such as sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide or potassium carbonate, at suitable temperature. The reaction can be carried out in an inert solvent such as dimethylformamide, dimethyl sulfoxide, or acetonitrile. B The compound of the present invention can be produced by a condensation of a compound having the formula II with a hydroquinone monobenzyl ether having the formulaEMI6.3 in the presence of an inorganic or organic base to produce a compound having the formula EMI7.1 wherein X is as defined above, followed by a hydrogenation of the product with a catalyst such as palladium carbon to bring about a debenzylation and obtain a compound having the formulaEMI7.2 and then a condensation of the product with a haloalkyl derivative having the formulaEMI7.3 in the presence of an inorganic or organic base such potassium carbonate in a polar organic solvent such as methyl ethyl ketone, acetonitrile or dimethyl formamide. C The product obtained by the process A or B can be converted into other compounds of the present invention by hydrolysis, esterification, ester interchange, salt or amidation. In the esterification, it is possible to use a conventional coupling agent but there are also coupling agents particularly suitable for this specific reaction such as imido coupling agents especially dicyclohexyl carboimide. The concentrations of the reagents, the temperatures in the reactions and kind of inert solvent can be selected as desired. In the process A , the reaction is preferably carried out at 50 to 2000C, especially at 80 to 100OC, at a molar ratio of the compound II to the 4 hydroxyphenoxy derivative III of 1 0.2 to 5.0, preferably 1 0.5 to 2.0 and especially 1 0.8 to 1.5. The inorganic or organic base can be any base which is suitable for the condensation of the compound II and the compound Ill . The concentration of the starting materials in the inert solvent can suitably be in a range of 5 to 50 wt. , preferably 10 to 30 wit. . In the process B , the reaction is preferably carried out at 50 200 C, especially at 100 to 150 C at a molar ratio of compound II to the hydroguinone monobenzyl ether IV of 1 0.2 to 5.0, preferably 1 0.5 to 2.0 and especially 1 0.8 to 1.5. The inorganic or organic base can be any base which is suitable for the condensation of the compound 11 and the compound IV . The reaction is preferably carried out in an inert solvent at a concentration of the starting material of 5 to 50 wt. , preferably 10 to 30 wt. . The hydrogenation of the resulting intermediate V is carried out in conditions suitable for the debenzylation to give the compound VI . The hydrogen pressure is preferably in the range of 1 to 5 atm., more preferably 1 to 2 atm. The reaction of the compound VI with the compound VII is preferably carried out at 80 to 1000C at a molar ratio of the compound VI to the compound VII of 1 0.2 to 5.0, preferably 1 0.5 to 2.0 and especially 1 0.8 to 1.5. The inorganic or organic base can be the same as that used in the previous reaction.The concentration of the starting materials in the inert solvent can be in a range of 5 to 50 wt.E preferably 10 to 30 wt. . In the process C , the conditions of the hydrolysis, the esterification, the ester interchange, the neutralization and the amidation can be selected as desired. These conditions can be considered by a person skilled in the art. Certain examples for the preparations of the present invention will be described. Proparation 1 Methyl 2 4 6 trifluoromethyl 2 quinoxalylox3 phenoxyl propionate Compound 3 In 100 mi. of acetonitrile, 2.3 g. 0.01 mol of 2 chloro 6trifluoromethylquinoxaline, 2.2 g. 0.011 mol of methyl 2 4 hydroxy phenoxy propionate and 2.0 g. 0.014 mol of potassium carbonate were dissolved and the mixture was refluxed for 6 hours.After the reaction, the precipitated salt was separated by a filtration and the filtrate was concentrated and dried. The residue was dissolved in chloroform, and the chloroform layer was washed with 5 aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide and with water. The chloroform layer was concentrated and dried. The residue was washed with n hexane to obtain 3.4 g. of white crystal of the object compound having a melting compound 93 to 95 C.Preparation 2 2 1 4 6 trifluoromethyl 2 quinoxalyloxy phenoxS ethyl 2 oxazoline Compound 20 In 20 mi. of dimethyl formamide, 1.5 g. 0.0049 mol of 6 trifluoromethyl 2 4 hydroxyphenoxy quinoxaline, 0. 72 g. 0.0054 mol of 2 1 chloroethyl 2 oxazoline and 0.81 g. 0.0059 mol of potassium carbonate were dissolved and the mixture was heated at 900C for S hours with stirring. After the reaction, the reaction mixture was charged into 300 mf. of water and the product was extracted with 600 mi. of benzene.The benzene layer was washed with 5 aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide and with water and dehydrated over anhydrous sodium sulfate. Benzene was distilled off under a reduced pressure to obtain a crude product. The crude product was washed with n hexane to obtain 0.49 g. of white solid of the object compound having a melting point of 153 to 155 C yield of 20 .Preparation 3 Methyl t m ethyl gamma 4 6 trifluoromethyl 2 quinoxalvloxy phenoxy crotonate Compound 22 In 150 ml. of methyl ethyl ketone, 3.1 g. 0.01 mol of 6trifluoromethyl 2 4 hydroxyphenoxy quinoxaline, 2.0 g. 0.01 mol of methyl 7 bromo r methylerotonate and 2.0 g. 0.014 mol of potassium carbonate were dissolved and the mixture was refluxed for 8 hours.After the reaction, the precipitated salt was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated and dried. The residue was dissolved in chloroform. The chloroform layer was washed with a small amount of 5 aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide and then, washed with water and dehydrated over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated and dried. The residue was purified by a column chromatography with silica gel and chloroform to obtain 3.6 g. of a pale yellow liquid of the object compound having a refractive index ND20 1. 5485 yield of 85 C0 Preparation 4 Methyl 2 4 6 methyl 2 quinoxal yloxy phenoxy propi onate Compound 29 In 50 ml. of acetonitrile, 1. 79 g. 0.01 mol of 2 chloro 6methyl quinoxaline, 2.69 g. 0.012 mol of isopropyl 2 4 hydroxy phenoxy propionate and 2.0 g. 0.014 mol of potassium carbonate were dissolved and the mixture was refluxed for about 10 hours. After the reaction, the precipitated salt was separated by a filtration and the filtrate was distilled under a reduced pressure. The residual oily product was dissolved in chloroform and chloroform layer was washed with 5 aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide and with water, and dehydrated over anhydrous sodium sulfate. Chloroform was distilled off under a reduced pressure and the crude crystal was washed with a mixed solvent of ether and n hexane to obtain 2. 6 g. 71 of white crystal of the object compound having a melting point of 102.0 to 103. 0 C. yield of 71 The compound of the present invention can be used as a herbicidal composition. In the preparation of the herbicidal compositions, the compound of the present invention can be uniformly mixed with or dissolved in suitable adjuvants such as solid carrier such as clay, talc, bentonite, diatomaceous earth liquid carrier such as water, alcohols methanol, ethanol etc. , aromatic hydrocarbons benzene, toluene, xylene etc. chlorinated hydrocarbons, ethers, ketones, esters ethyl acetate etc. , acid amides dimethylformamide etc. if desired, with an emulsifier, a dispersing agent, a suspending agent, a wetting agent, a spreader, or a stabilizer to form a solution, an emulsifiable concentrate, a wettable powder, a dust, a granule or a flowable suspension which is applied if desired, by diluting it with suitable diluent. It is possible to combine the compound of the present invention with the other herbicide, or an insecticide, a fungicide, a plant growth regulator, a synergism agent. Certain examples of the herbicidal compositions of the present invention will be illustrated. In the examples, the part means part by weight.Solution Active ingredient 5 to 75 wt. O preferably 10 to 50 Wt. especially 15 to 40 wt. Solvent 95 to 25 Wt. preferably 88 to 30 wt. especial 82 to 40 Wt. Surfactant 1 to 30 wt. preferably 2 to 20 Wt. Emulsifiable concentrate Active ingredient 2.5 to 50 wt. o preferably 5 to 45 wt. especially 10 to 40 wt. Surfactant 1 to 30 Wt. preferably 2 to 25 wt. especially 3 to 20 wt. Liquid carrier 20 to 95 wt. preferably 30 to 93 Wt. especially 57 to 85 wt. Dust Active ingredient 0.5 to 10 wt.O Solid carrier 99.5 to 90 Wt. Flowable suspension Active ingredient 5 to 75 wt. preferably 10 to 50 wt. Water 94 to 25 wt. preferably 90 to 30 Wt. Surfactant 1 to 30 Wt. preferably 2 to 20 wt. Weftable powder Active ingredient 2.5 to 90 Wt. preferably 10 to 80 wt.Wo especially 20 to 75 Wt. Surfactant 0.5 to 20 wt.S preferably 1 to 15 Wt. especially 2 to 10 Wt. Solid carrier 5 to 90 Wt. preferably 7.5 to 88 wt. especially 16 to 56 Wt. Granule Active ingredient 0.5 to 30 Wt. Solid carrier 99.5 to 70 w The emulsifiable concentrate is prepared by dissolving the active ingredient in the liquid carrier with the surfactant. The wettable powder is prepared by admixing the active ingredient with the solid carrier and the surfactant and the mixture is pulverized. The flowable suspension is prepared by suspending to disperse a pulverized active ingredient into an aqueous solution c a surfactant. The dust, the solution, the granule etc. are prepared by mixing the active ingredient with the adjutant. In the following compositions, the following adjuvants are used. Sorpol 2680 POE h ormylnonylphenolether 50 wt. parts POE nonylphenolether 20 POE sorbitan alkyl ester 10 Ca alkylbenzenesulfonate 20 SorpoN 5039 POE alkylarylether sulfate 50 Silica hydrate 50 Carplex Silica hydrate 100 Zeeklite Clay 100 Sorpol W 150 POE nonylphenolether 100 wt. partsComposition 1 Wettable powder Active ingredient 50 wt.parts Zeeklite A 46 Sorpol 5039 Toho Chem. 2 Carplex 2 These components were uniformly mixed and pulverized to prepare a wettable powder.The wettable powder was diluted with water at 50 to 1 000 times and the diluted solution was sprayed at a dose of 5 to 1,000 g. of the active ingredient per 10 ares.Composition 2 Emulsifiable concentrate Active ingredient 20 wt.parts Xylene 75 Sorpol 2680 Toho Chem. 5 The components were uniformly mixed to prepare an emul sifiable concentrate. The emulsifiable concentrate was diluted with water at 50 to 1,000 times and the diluted solution was sprayed at a dose of 5 to 1000 g. of the active ingredient per 10 ares.Composition 3 Aaueous solution Active ingredient 30 wt.parts SorpolW 150 TohoChem. 10 Water 60 The components were mixed to dissolve them and to prepare an aqueous solution. The aqueous solution was diluted with water at 50 to 1,000 times and the diluted solution was sprayed at a dose of 5 to 1000 g. of the active ingredient per 10 ares. Composition 4 Wettable powder Active ingredient 30 wt.parts Other herbicide 20 Zeeklitge A 46 Sorpol 5039 Toho Chem. 2 Carplex 2 As the other herbicide, the following known herbicides were respectively used 2 2, 4 dichlorophenoxy propionic acid, 2, 4 di chlorophenoxyacetic acid, 3 3 trifluoromethylphenyl 1, 1 dimethylurea, 3 4 methylphenethyloxyphenyl 1 methyl 1 methoxy urea, 3 methoxycarbonylamino phenyl N 3 methylphenyl carbamate, 3 ethoxycarbonylamino phenyl N phenylcarbamate, 3 isopropyl 1H 2, 1, 3 benzo thiadiazine 4 3H one 2, 2 dioxide, 5 amino 4 chloro2 phenylpyridazine 3 one, 3 cyclohexyl 5, 6 trimethyleneuracil, 2 chloro 4 ethylamino 6 isopropylamino 1, 3, 5 triazine, 2 chloro4, 6 di ethyl amino 1, 3, 5 triazine, 2 methylthio 4, 6 bis isopropyl amino I, 3, 5 triazine, 4 amino 4, 5 dihydro 3 methyl 6 phenyl 1, 2, 4 triazine 5 one, 4 amino 6 t butyl 4, 5 dihydro 3 methylthio 1,2,4 triazine 5 one,2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenyl 3 ethoxy 4 nit ropheny 1 ether or sodium 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2nitro benzoate. It is also possible to combine the compound of the present invention with the other herbicidal compounds which are described in Weed Control Handbook Vol. I 6th edition 1977 Vol. II 8th edition 1978 issued by the British Crop Protection Council edited by J.D. Fryer MA R.J. Makepeace BSc. Blackwell Scientific Publication. The quinoxaline derivatives of the present invention have excellent herbicidal effect against various wees, especially gramineous weeds in a soil treatment or in a foliage treatment, without any phytotoxicity to broad leaf crop plants such as cotton, soybean, radish, cabbage, eggplant, tomato, sugar beet, ground nut, peas, beans, line seed, sun flower, safflower, potato, tabacco, alfalfa and onion. Therefore, the quinoxaline derivatives of the present invention are suitable for selective control of gramineous weeds in the cultivation of a broad leaf crop plant in both the agricultural and horticultural fields, especially up land cultivation. The quinoxaline derivatives of the present invention are also effective as herbicides for controlling various weeds in a wide variety of agricultural and horticultural fields such as up land, paddy fields and orchards as well as non cultivated lands such as playgrounds, vacant lands, and railway sidings and embankments. The herbicidal composition usually contains 0.5 to 95 wt.E of the compound of the present invention as the active ingredient and the Jc mainder of the adjuvants in the concentrated form. The exact dose of the compound of the present invention may depend upon weather conditions, soil conditions, the form of the composition, the season of application and the lind of a cop plant and kind of weed and is usually in a range of 1 to 5000 g. preferably 5 to 1000 g. of the active ingredient per 10 ares. The herbicidal activities of the quinoxaline derivatives of the present invention will be illustrated in the following tests. In the following tests, the herbicidal effects of the compounds of the present invention to gramineous weeds including rice are shown together with non phytotoxicity of the same compounds to broad leaf crop plants as well as broad leaf weeds especially, non phytotoxicity of the same compounds to broad leaf weeds in post emergence.These remarkable selectivities have not been found by the other compounds.Test 1 Tests for herbicidal effect in soil treatment Each plastic box having a length of 15 cm, a width of 22 cm and a depth of 6 cm was filled with a sterilized diluvium soil and seeds of rice Oryza sativa , barnyard grass Echinochloa crus galli , large crab grass Digitaria adscendens , lambsquarters Chenopodium ticifollum , common purslane Postuloca oleracea , hairy galinsoga Galinsoga ciliata , yellow cress Rorippa atrovirens were sown in a depth of about 1.5 cm. Each solution of each herbicidal composition was uniformly sprayed on the surface of the soil to give the specific dose of the active ingredient. The solution was prepared by diluting, with water, a wettable powder, an emulsifiable concentrate or a solution described in examples of the composition except varying the active ingredient.The solution was sprayed by a small spray. Three weeks after the treatment, the herbicidal effects to rice and various weeds were observed and rated by the following standard. The results are shown in Table 2.Standard ratio 5 Growth control of more than 90 substantial suppression 4 Growth control of 70 to 906jo 3 Growth control of 40 to 7 7056 2 Growth control of 20 to 40 1 Growth control of 5 to 20 0 Growth control of less than 5 non herbicidal effect Note Ri Rice Ba. Barnzard grass L. C. Large crab grass La. Lambsquarters C. P. Common purslane H. G. Hairy galinsoga Y. C. Yellow cress Table 2EMI23.1 tb SEP Dose SEP of tb SEP Comp. SEP Comp. SEP Ri SEP Ba SEP L.C. SEP La. SEP C.P. SEP H.G. SEP Y.C. tb SEP g a tb SEP 1 SEP 100 SEP S SEP S SEP S SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 50 SEP S SEP S SEP S SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP S SEP S SEP S SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP S SEP S SEP S SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 2 SEP 50 SEP S SEP S SEP S SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP S SEP S SEP S SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP S SEP S SEP S SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb SEP 3 SEP 50 SEP S SEP S SEP S SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb 25 SEP S SEP S SEP S SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb 100 SEP S SEP S SEP S SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 3 tb 4 SEP 50 SEP S SEP S SEP S SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 25 SEP S SEP S SEP S SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP S SEP S SEP S SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb 5 SEP 50 SEP S SEP S SEP S SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 25 SEP S SEP S SEP S SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP S SEP S SEP S SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb 6 SEP 50 SEP S SEP S SEP S SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 1 tb SEP 25 SEP S SEP S SEP S SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb 100 SEP S SEP S SEP S SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb SEP 7 SEP 50 SEP S SEP S SEP S SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 25 SEP S SEP S SEP S SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP S SEP S SEP S SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb SEP 8 SEP 50 SEP S SEP S SEP S SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 tb SEP 25 SEP S SEP S SEP S SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb 100 SEP S SEP S SEP S SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb 9 SEP 50 SEP S SEP S SEP S SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 100 SEP S SEP S SEP S SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb SEP 10 SEP 50 SEP S SEP S SEP S SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 25 SEP S SEP S SEP S SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP S SEP S SEP S SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb SEP 11 SEP 50 SEP S SEP S SEP S SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP S SEP S SEP S SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb Table 2 continued EMI24.1 SEP Comp. SEP Ri SEP Ba SEP L.C. SEP La. SEP C.P. SEP H.G. SEP Y.C. tb SEP No. tb SEP g a tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb SEP 12 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb SEP 13 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb SEP 14 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 tb SEP 15 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 3 tb SEP 16 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb SEP 17 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 tb SEP 18 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 19 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb SEP 20 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 2 tb SEP 21 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 3 tb SEP 22 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb Table 2 continued EMI25.1 tb SEP Dose SEP of tb SEP Comp. SEP Ri SEP Ba SEP L.C. SEP La. SEP C.P. SEP H.G. SEP Y.C. tb SEP g a tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb SEP 23 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 tb SEP 24 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb SEP 25 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 tb SEP 26 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 tb SEP 27 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb SEP 28 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb SEP 29 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 tb SEP 30 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 2 tb SEP 31 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 2 tb SEP 32 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 1 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb Test 2 Tests for herbicidal effect in foliage treatment Each plastic box having a length of 15 cm, a width of 22 cm, a depth of 6 cm was filled with a sterilized diluvium soil and seeds of rice, barnyard grass1 large crab grass, lambsquarters common purslane, hairy galinsoga, yellow cress and tomato were sown in a form of spots in a depth of about 1.5 cm.When the weeds were grown to 2 to 3 leaf stage, each solution of each herbicidal composition was uniformly sprayed to foliages at each dose of each active ingredient shown in Table 3. The solution was prepared by diluting, with water, a wettable powder, an emulsifiable concentrate or a solution described in examples of the composition except varying the active ingredient and the solution was uniformly sprayed by a small spray on all of foliages of the plants. Two weeks after the spray treatment, the herbicide effects to the weeds and tomato were observed and rated by the standard shown in Test 1. The results are shown in Table 3. Table 3EMI27.1 tb SEP Dose SEP of tb SEP Comp. SEP Ri SEP Ba SEP L.C. SEP La. SEP C.P. SEP N.G. SEP Y.C. tb SEP g a tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 tb SEP 1 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 2 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 3 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 4 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb SEP 5 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb SEP 6 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb SEP 7 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 tb SEP 8 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 2 tb SEP 9 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 1 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 10 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 2 tb SEP 11 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 1 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb Table 3 continued EMI28.1 tb SEP Dose SEP of tb Comp. tb SEP Comp. SEP Ri SEP Ba SEP L.C. SEP La. SEP C.P. SEP N.G. SEP Y.C. tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb SEP 12 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 tb SEP 13 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 14 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 tb SEP 15 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb SEP 16 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb SEP 17 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 1 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb SEP 18 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 3 tb SEP 19 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 2 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 20 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 tb 21 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb SEP 22 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb Table 3 continued EMI29.1 tb SEP Dose SEP of tb SEP Comp. SEP Ri SEP Ba SEP L.C. SEP La. SEP C.F. SEP H.G. SEP Y.C. tb SEP g a tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb SEP 23 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 1 tb SEP 24 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb SEP 25 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb SEP 26 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 1 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb SEP 27 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb SEP 28 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 tb SEP 29 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 3 tb SEP 30 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 31 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb SEP 32 SEP 50 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 1 tb SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb Test 3 Tests for phytotoxicity to crop plants foliage treatment Each plastic box having a length of 15 cm, a width of 22 cm. and a depth of 6 cm was filled with a sterilized diluvium soil and seeds of cotton, soybean, radish, cabbage and eggplant were sown in a form of spots in a depth of about 1.5 cm. When the plants were grown to leaf emergence stage, each solution of each herbicidal composition was uniformly sprayed to foliages at each dose of each active ingredient shown in Table 4. The solution was prepared by diluting, with water, a wettable powder, an emulsifiable concentrate or a solution described in examples of the composition except varying the active ingredient and the solution v as uniformly sprayed by a small spray on all of foliages of the plants. Two weeks after the spray treatment, the phytotoxicities to the plants were observed and rated by the following standard.The results are shown in Table 4.Standard rating 5 Complete death of plant 4 Serious phytotoxicity to plant 3 Fair phytotoxicity to plant 2 Slight phytotoxicity to plant 1 Only slight phttotoxicity to plant 0 Non phytotoxicity Note Cot. Cotton Soy. Soybean Rad. Radish Cab. Cabbage Egg. Fggplant Table 4EMI31.1 tb Dose SEP of tb Compound tb Compound SEP Cot. SEP Soy. SEP Rad. SEP Cab. SEP Egg. tb g a tb SEP 50 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 50 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 50 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 50 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 50 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 50 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 50 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 50 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 8 tb SEP 25 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 50 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 9 tb SEP 25 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 50 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 10 tb SEP 25 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 50 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb 11 tb SEP 25 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb 50 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb 25 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb 50 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb 13 tb SEP 25 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb 50 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb 50 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb 15 tb SEP 25 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb Table 4 continued EMI32.1 SEP Dose SEP of tb SEP Compound tb Compound SEP Cot. SEP Soy. SEP Rad. SEP Cab. SEP Egg. tb SEP 25 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 50 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 50 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb 18 tb SEP 25 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 50 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb 19 tb SEP 25 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 50 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 50 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 50 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 50 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 50 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb 25 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb 50 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb 50 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 50 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb 27 tb SEP 25 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 50 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 28 tb SEP 25 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 50 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 50 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb 30 tb SEP 25 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb Table 4 continued EMI33.1 tb SEP Dose SEP of tb SEP Compound SEP Compound SEP Cot. SEP Soy. SEP Rad. SEP Cab. SEP Egg. tb No. SEP g a tb SEP 31 SEP 50 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 32 SEP 50 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb