# Nondenaturing zwitterionic detergents for membrane biochemistry.

## Abstract
A nondenaturing zwitterionic detergent for proteins which, for example, consists of an effective amount of 3 3 cholamidopropyl dimethyl ammonio 1 propane sulfonate CHAPS . This detergent is of extreme interest in the biological study of proteins due to its nondenaturing characteristic. Other examples of the group may be prepared from different alicyclic compounds, for example, utilizing cholic acid and in others deoxycholic acid and dehydroabie tic acid. A process for the preparation of these compounds starts with cholic or the equivalent and from this is prepared the triethylammonium salt in tetrahydrofuran THF . After the salt is completely dissolved in THF, ethyl chloroformate is added and the flask cooled to 0 C. Then the mixed anhydride which forms is reacted with dimethylaminopropy lamine to form the dimethylaminopropyl derivative of a carboxylic acid amide. Finally, the tertiary amine group is reacted with propanesultone to give the sulfobetaine pro duct.

## Claims
I CLAIM 1. A nondenaturing zwitterionic detergent for protein consisting of an effective amount of 3 3 cholamidopropyl dimethylammonio 1 propanesul fonate. 2. A nondenaturing zwitterionic detergent for protein derived from the reaction of an amide selected from one member of a group of carboxylic acids consisting of cholic acid, deoxycholic acid, and dehydroabietic acid reacted with a polyethyleneamine selected from one member of the group consisting ofEMI17.1 or reacted with a polypropyleneamine selected from one member of the group consisting of EMI18.1 orEMI18.2 and reacted with an alkylating agent selected from one member of the group consisting of propanesultone, butanesultone, sodium 3 Cl, 2 OH propanesulfonate, sodium 2 Br ethane sulfonate, and sodium chloroacetate. 3. The detergent according to Claim 2, wherein the carboxylic acid is dehydroabietic acid. 4. A process for producing the detergent of Claim 2, wherein 1 cholic acid is reacted with an amine to form triethylammonium salt of cholic acid in the solvent tetrahydrofuran 2 after the salt is completely dissolved, ethyl chloroformate is added and the flask is cooled to OOC and a precipitate forms which is triethylamine hydrochloride which is filtered away from the mixed anhydride 3 the product, mixed anhydride, reacts with a polyamine to form the polyamine derivative of a carboxylic acid amide as well as ethanol and carbon dioxide by products 4 the tertiary amine is reacted with an alkylating agent selected from one member of the group consisting ofEMI19.1 PropanesultoneEMI19.2 Butanesultone,EMI19.3 Sodium 3 C1, 2 OHPropanesulfonateEMI19.4 Sodium 2 BrEthanesulfonate, orEMI19.5 Sodium chloroacetate to give the betaine. 5. The process according to Claim 4 of producing 3 3 cholamidopropyl dimethylammonio l propanesulfonate. 6. The compound 3 3 cholamidopropyl di methylammonio 1 propanesulfonate.

## Description
NONDENATURING ZWITTERIONIC DETERGENTS FOR MEMBRANE BIOCHEMISTRY This invention relates to a nondenaturing zwitterionic detergent for proteins which, for example, consists of an effective amount of 3 3 cholamidopropyl dimethylammoniol l propanesulfonate CHAPS . This detergent is of extreme interest in the biological study of proteins due to its nondenaturing characteristic. Other examples of the group may be prepared from different alicyclic compounds, for example, utilizing cholic acid and in others deoxycholic acid and dehydroabietic acid. A process for the preparation of these compounds starts with cholic or the equivalent and from this is prepared the triethylammonium salt in tetrahydrofuran THF .After the salt is completely dissolved in THF, ethyl chloroformate is added and the flask cooled to 0 C. Then the mixed anhydride which forms is reacted with dimethylaminopropylamine to form the dimethylaminopropyl derivative of a carboxylic acid amide.Finally, the tertiary amine group is reacted with propanesultone to give the sulfobetaine product. This invention relates to a nondenaturing zwitterionic detergent for membrane biochemistry, both in its design and synthesis. This detergent combines the useful properties of both the sulfobetaine type detergents and the bile salt anions.The new detergent proves to be effective at solubilizing membrane proteins in a nondenatured state.PRIOR ART STATEMENT Gonenne, et al., Solubilization of ti3mbrane Proteins by Sulfobetaines, Novel Zwitterionic Surfactants , AnalyticalBiochemistry, 87 28 38 1978 . Hjelmeland, et al., Eleccrofocusing of IntegralMembrane Proteins in Mixtures of Zwittericnic and NonionicDetergents , Analytical Biochemistry, 95 201 208 1979 . Parris, et al., Soap Based Detergent Formulations XII. Alternate Syntheses of Surface Active Sulfebetaines , J. Amer. Oil Chem. Soc., 53 60 63 1976 Parris, et al., Soap Based Detergent Formulations XVIII. Effect of Structure Variations on Surface Active Properties of Sulfur Containing Amphoteric Surfactants , J. Amber. Oil Chem.Soc., 53 97 100 1976 . Parris, et al., Soap Based Detergent Formulation XXIV. Sulicbetaine Derivatives of Fatty Amides , J. Amber. OilChem. Soc., 54 294 296 1977 . Parris, et al., Soap Based Detergent Formulations V. Amphoteric Lime Soap Dispersing Agents , J. Arter. Oil Chem.Soc., 50 509 512 1973 . Herrmann, Micellar Properties of SomeZwitterionic Surfactants , J. Colloid Interface Sci., 22 352 359 1966 . Parris, et al., Determination of Sulfobetaine Amphoteric Surfactants by Reverse Phase HighPerformance Liquid Chromatography , Anal. Chem., 49 2228 2231 1977 . onig, Z. Anal. Chem., 259 191 194 1972 . British Patent 1,037,645DEFINITION In this specification the following definition from Condensed Chemical Dictionary, 9, page 107, is given. Bile acid and salt are defined as an acid and acid salt found in bile the secretion of liver bile acids are steroids having a hydroxy group and a 5 carbon atom side chain terminating in a carboxyl group cholic acid is mentioned as the most abundant bile acid in human bile.INTRODUCTION One of the more important aspects of the purification of membrane proteins is the choice of a suitable detergent. This choice is usually based on the ability to preserve an enzymatic activity or some other native property. In this respect, nonionic detergents such as Triton X 100 octylphenoxy polyethoxy ethanol Rohm and Haas and Lubrol PX blend of nonyl phenol and ethylene oxide ICI , and the bile salts are the reagents of choice. Two additional considerations must also be made. The first relates to the artifactual aggregation of proteins while in the presence of detergents to form nonspecific protein complexes which have no biological relevance. A useful detergent should be capable of breaking such interactions togive maximally disaggregated species in solution.Nonionics are generally less efficient in this respect than are ionic detergents or bile salt anions. The second consideration is the extent to which the detergent affects the charge properties of solubilized proteins. Anionic detergents, for example, add substantial amounts of negative charge which may completely overshadow the charge properties of the native protein. This type of charge alteration profoundly affects the utility of conventional techniques such as ion exchange chromatography and isoelectric focusing which depend primarily on charge properties to effect protein separations. A survey of existing detergents demonstrates that no single compound which is presently available is adequately nondenaturing, disaggregating, and at the same time electrically neutral. The bile salts are both nondenaturing and effective in disaggregating protein but lack the charge neutrality necessary for compatibility with charge fractionation techniques. In contrast, Triton X 100 and other polyethoxy type nonionics are electrically neutral and nondenaturing but appear not to be efficient at breaking protein protein interactions. N alkyl sulfobetaines are neutral and efficient at disaggregating protein but are unfortunately strongly denaturing. One possibility of a detergent useful in the purification of membrane proteins is a combination of a bile salt hydrophobic group and a sulfobetaine type polar group.This invention describes the synthesis and properties of a sulfobetaine derivative of cholic acid and evaluates its protential utility in membrane protein purification.DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING The figure presents data on the effectiveness of CHAPS in solubilizing mouse liver microsomes and shows that it is nondenaturing with respect to cytochrome P 450 at concentrations up to 10 mM. The left hand panel indicates that CHAPS is capable of solubilizing about 70 of the protein of mouse liver microsomes which can be repelleted in the absence of detergent. Data are given at total protein concentrations of 1, 3 and 5 mg ml. The sharp break in the three curves between 4 and 6 mM indicates that the critical micille concentration of CHAPS is possibly in this region. The right hand panel of the figure gives the percentage of the total cytochrome P 450 found in the supernatant at each of the same protein and CHAPS concentrations. The higher protein concentrations yield recoveries of soluble and nondenatured cytochrome P 450 in excess of 90 . C57BL 6 mouse liver microsomes were prepared by differential centrifugation of tissue homogenized in a 150 mM KC1, 10 mM EDTA buffer at pH 7.25, 40C. For solubilization experiments, the appropriate amount of protein was diluted to give solubilization media with the stated protein and detergent concentrations, and final concentrations of 20 v v glycerol and 0.1 M K phosphate, pH 7.25. Aliquots of 5 ml were incubated for 30 min.at 250C, and then centrifuged at 105,000 xg, 250C for 2 hr. The left panel shows the amount of protein solubilized at various concentrations of CHAPS, expressed as a percentage of the amount of protein which could be recovered in the pellet in the absence of detergent. Protein was measured in both the pellet and the supernatant. The right panel shows the amount of cytochrome P 450 remaining in the supernatant at various detergent combinations. These amounts are expressed as percentages of the total P 450 content of the intact microsomes. P 450 was measured as the absorbance at 450 nm minus 490 nm in the reduced vs. reduced carbon monoxide difference spectrum. SOLUBILIZING PROTEIN WITH CHAPS As a new detergent to be used in the solubilization of membranes, CHAPS combines the useful features of both the bile salts and the n alkyl sulfobetaines. Like the sulfobetaines, CHAPS proves to be better at solubilizing protein than structurally related carboxylic acid anions. Although it is difficult to compare solubilization results from different tissues under different experimental conditions, studies of the efficiency of solubilization by Na cholate suggest that CHAPS is a substantially better detergent. The data presented here were obtained with microsomes which were treated with 10 mM EDTA and 150 mM KC1 to remove extrinsic proteins, which account for perhaps 30 of the most easily solubilized protein in these membranes.By this criterion, CHAPS behaves more like Na deoxycholate in its ability to solubilize total protein, although it is structurally more related to Na cholate. CHAPS is, however, much more effective at breaking protein protein interactions than eitherNa cholate or Triton X 100. Cytochrome P 450 is normally highly aggregated in solutions containing either of these detergents, but CHAPS disaggregatesP 450 to its monomeric form. The increased capacity of CHAPS to solubilize protein and disaggregate complexes is not gained at the. expense of increased denaturing properties. CHAPS is nondenaturing with respect toP 450 under the conditions employed in this invention.This is in contrast to Na deoxycholate, which denatures P 450 under similar conditions. A recent study of the opiate receptor found CHAPS to be the only detergent capable of solubilizing the receptor in a state exhibiting reversible binding of opioids.These are indirect measures of the physical interactions of CHAPS with these proteins and the term denaturing is used in its loosest sense. The more important but less obvious advantage of CHAPS as a detergent for solubilizing membranes is its compatibility with charge fractionation techniques. Sulfobetaines, while being zwitterionic, behave essentially as nonionic compounds. Specifically, they possess no net charge at any pH between 2 and 12, they exhibit no conductivity or electrophoretic mobility, and do not bind to ion exchange resins. This gives sulfobetaine type detergents a tremendous advantage in both ion exchange chromatography and isoelectric focusing. The utility of n alkyl sulfobetaines in isoelectric focusing has been demonstrated and preliminary experiments with CHAPS indicate no interference with the formation or stability of pH gradients in this technique.GENERALIZED PROCEDURE Below is a step by step outline of the synthesis described in this invention. Step 1. The triethylammonium salt of cholic acid is formed in THF. Step 2. After the salt is completely dissolved in THF, ethyl chloroformate is added and the flask is cooled to OOC. At this point, a precipitate is formed which is triethylamine hydrochloride. This is filtered away from the mixed anhydride. Step 3. The mixed anhydride then reacts with the dimethylaminopropylamine to form a dimethylaminopropyl derivative of a carboxylic acid amide, ethanol, and carbon dioxide as a gas. Step 4. In the final step, the tertiary amine group is reacted with propane sultone to give the sulfobetaine. EMI9.1 The three important synthetic elements in the final molecule are 1. The starting carboxylic acid 2. The polyamine used to generate the functionalized amide 3. The alkylating agent used to quaternize the tertiary amine and give the final product. The carboxylic acids may be EMI10.1 Cholic AcidEMI10.2 Deoxycholic Acid orEMI10.3 DehydroabieticAcid The dehydroabietic acid is important since it represents the most abundant naturally occurring group organic acids, the rosin acids which are refined from wood rosin and tall oil and have wide industrial uses, among them, the synthesis of surfactants. The polyamines may be PolyethyleneaminesEMI11.1 orPolypropyleneaminesEMI11.2 Others such as N methyl piperazineEMI11.3 The alkylating agents may be EMI12.1 Propanesultone,EMI12.2 Butanesultone,EMI12.3 Sodium 3 C1, 2 OHPropanesulfonate,EMI12.4 Sodium 2 BrEthanesulfonate, orEMI12.5 Sodium chloroacetate.Specific operative compounds are EMI12.6 EMI13.1 EMI14.1 EXAMPLE 1 Synthesis of 3 3 cholamidopropyl dimethyl ammonio l propanesulfonate. A solution of 40.86 g 0.1 mole of cholic acid in 500 ml of anhydrous THF was prepared in a oneliter round bottom flask equipped with a drying tube. To this solution was added 13.95 ml 0.1 mole of anhydrous triethylamine. The flask was gently swirled, 9.56 ml 0.1 mole of ethyl chloroformate was added, and the flask was immediately placed in an ice bath for 20 minutes. A voluminous white precipitate was visible at this point. To a one liter side arm flask was added 12.54 ml 0.1 mole of 3 dimethylaminopropylamine and 10 ml of anhydrous THF. The flask was equipped with a 9 cm Buchner funnel and a number 1 Watman filter circle. The contents of the one liter flask were then filtered into the side arm flask. Evolution of carbon dioxide was visible as the filtrate mixed in the side arm flask. The round bottom flask was rinsed with an additional 20 ml of THF which was subsequently used to wash the filter cake. The filtrate was then transferred to a oneliter round bottom flask and the THF removed by distillation at reduced pressure on a rotary evaporator.The residue was taken up in 500 ml of dichloromethane and transferred to a two liter separatory funnel. The organic phase was extracted thoroughly with 200 ml of 3 M sodium hydroxide and 15 minutes were allowed for complete phase separation. Small amounts of ethanol 10 ml or less were used to break any remaining emulsions. The dichloromethane bottom phase was drawn off and dried for 30 min. over 50 g of magnesium sulfate. The dried dichloromethane solution was decanted into a one liter round bottom flask. The magnesium sulfate was rinsed with an additional 20 ml of dichloromethane, which was then added to the round bottom flask, and all solvent was subsequently removed at reduced pressure in a rotary evaporator. Excess water was then removed by repeatedly adding 50 ml of a 2 1 mixture of toluene and absolute ethanol to the round bottom flask followed by distillation in the rotary evaporator, until no cloudiness was observed in the distilled solvent. Removal. of all solvents left N 3 dimethylaminopropyl cholamide as a gummy white solid at room temperature. The gummy white residue from the previous step was taken up in 500 ml of anhydrous DMF and transferred to a one liter Erlenmeyer flask equipped with a ground glass joint and stopper. To this solution was added 12.25 g 0.1 mole of propanesultone and the flask was stoppered and incubated in a water bath at 600C for 2 hr. The solution was then cooled to room temperature in an ice bath and 500 ml of absolute methanol were added. The bulky precipitate was broken up, collected on a Buchner funnel by vacuum filtration and the filter cake washed with an additional 200 ml of absolute methanol. The crude product was subsequently triturated in 500 ml of boiling acetone and again collected by vacuum filtration. Thorough drying at room temperature yielded 45 to 50 g of 3 3 cholamidopropyl dimethylammonio l propanesulfonate CHAPS 75 80 theoretical . The crude material was judged to be better than 95 pure by thin layer chromatography on silica gel G in a 95 methanol 5 ammonium hydroxide solvent system. The product appeared as a spot with an Rf of 0.32 which was visualized with iodine, phosphomolybdate, or ninhydrin. The tertiary amine precursor appeared as a spot with Rf 0.4. Analytically pure material was obtained by repeated crystallization at OOC from absolute methanol, followed by drying under high vacuum at room temperature to a constant weight. The calculated analysis for C32H58N2S1O7 after correction for 4.26 water determined by Karl Fischer analysis was C 5985 , H 9.58 , N 4.36, S 4.99 found C 59.85 , H 9.19 ,N 4.24 , S 5.06 .