# Dry polycarbonate membrane and process of manufacture.

## Abstract
A substantially dry, flexible, nonwrinkled, stabilized semipermeable polyether polycarbonate block copolymer hemodialysis membrane containing therein a water soluble polyol and having the ability after being rewetted with water to be used in a hemodialysis apparatus as a means for preferential removal of middle molecular weight molecules from blood, said polyether polycarbonate block copolymer containing 5 by 35 by weight of repeating alkylene ether carbonate units and from 95 to about 65 by weight of repeating bisphenol A carbonate units, said membrane being prepared by imbibing into the water wet membrane a solution of the polyol in water or a volatile lower alkanol, and removing the water of lower alkanol, leaving the pores or voids in the membrane substantially occupied by the poyol.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A substantially dry, flexible, nonwrinkled, stabilized semipermeable polyether polycarbonate block copolymer membrane containing therein a water soluble polyol and having the ability after being rewetted with water to be used in a hemodialysis apparatus as a means for preferential removal of middle molecular weight molecules from blood, said polyether polycarbonate block copolymer containing 5 to 35 by weight of repeating alkylene ether carbonate units and from 95 to about 65 by weight of repeating bisphenol A carbonate units. 2. The membrane of claim 1 wherein after being rewetted with water, said membrane has a diffusive permeability to sodium chloride of about 650 to 860 A cm min x 10 4, a diffusive permeability to vitamin B12 of greater than 90 cm min x 10 4 , an ultra filtration rate of less than 4.0 ml hr M2 mmHg, both the diffusive permeability and ultra filtration rate being measured at 370C, and a thickness of from about 0.60 mil to about 1.5 mil. 3. The membrane of claim 1 or 2 wherein said membrane contains from about 5 to about 65 by weight, preferably from about 40 to about 55 by weight, based on the total weight of said dry flexible membrane of the water soluble polyol. 4. The membrane of any one of claims 1 3 wherein the polyol is chosen among glycerin, triethylene glycol, propylene glycol, polyethylene glycol, glucose, polypropylene glycol, ethylene oxide propylene oxide copolymer, and sucrose. 5 The membrane of any one of claims 1 4 wherein said copolymer has a molecular weight within the range of from about 200,000 to 500,000 as determined by intrinsic viscosity measurement. 6. The membrane of any one of claims 1 5 which has been rewetted to remove said polyol from the membrane. 7. A process for manufacturing a substantially dry, stabilized, rewettable, semipermeable membrane from a water wet polyether polycarbonate block copolymer membrane adapted to permit selective diffusion therethrough, which process comprises the steps of a imbibing into the water wet membrane a solution comprising a water soluble polyol in a volatile solvent carrier therefor and b volatilizing substantially all of said solvent carrier from said membrane while leaving the polyol in the membrane thereby forming said substantially dry, stabilized, rewettable membrane having the ability after being rewetted with water to perform as an effective hemodialysis membrane. 8. The process of claim 7 wherein the volatile solvent carrier is chosen among water, a lower alkanol, isOpropanol, 190 Proof ethanol, a mixture of water, methanol and ethanol, and a mixture of lower alkanols. 9. The process of claim 7 or 8 wherein any excess of said solution present on the surface of the imbibed membrane is physically removed prior to said volatilization step. 10. The process of claim 7 wherein said imbibing is carried out by first replacing the water in the membrane with a lower alkanol and then imbibing the membrane in a solution of the polyol dissolved in a lower alkanol. 11. The process of claim 7 wherein said imbibing is carried out by first replacing the water in the membrane with a solution of water and a lower alkanol, then replacing the solution of water and a lower alkanol with pure alkanol, and then imbibing the membrane in a solution of the polyol dissolved in a lower alkanol. 12. The process of any of of claims 7 11 wherein the polyol is chosen among glycerin, triethylene glycol, propylene glycol, polyethylene glycol, polypropylene glycol, ethylene oxide propylene oxide copolymer, and sucrose.

## Description
TITLE DRY POLYCARBONATE MEMBRANE AND PROCESS OF MANUFACTUREBACKGROUND OF THE IMENTION Polycarbonate membranes for use in hemodialysis have been prepared in accordance with earlier filed UnitedStates patent applications Serial No. 572,354 filedMarch 31, 1976, Serial No. 668,556 filed March 19, 1976,Serial No. 636,062 filed November 28, 1975, and SerialNo. 454,939 filed March 26, 1974. The disclosure of said applications is incorporated herein by reference.According to said earlier filed patent applications, it has been found that water wet polyether polycarbonate block copolymer membranes, especially those prepared by a wet phase inversion technique using an aaueous gelation system and having a thickness of from about 0.60 mil to about 1.50 mil are particularly adapted when incorporated in a hemodialysis apparatus to preferentially remove middle molecular weight molecules 500 5000 Daltons from blood without raising the water permeability of the membrane.Heretofore said membranes have been manufactured, shipped, and stored in a water wet form. Experience has shown that these wet membranes suffer a loss of mechanical properties azith time. Further, storage stability studies on wet membranes show that while the slope of mechanical properties loss with time is minimized by refrigerated storage, membrane samples after 11 to 12 months retain about 75 of the original mechanical strength. It is believed that this loss of strength is due to hydrolysis of carbonate linkages causing some chain scission. The wet membranes have been used clinically in rebuildable dialysers, such as the Kiil dialyser, for a number of years. In this regime, the wet membranes are stored wet in formalin in a refrigerator and consumed within 45 days. More recently, disposable dialysers have been developed in which the membranes are prepackaged within the dialyser. Such dialysers contemplate production in an automatic fashion. The disposable dialysers have a number of advantages, notably convenience and presterilization, and are thus displacing the Kiil dialyser. A dry membrane is more compatible with the production, shipment and storage of disposable dialysers. It has been found that if the wet membrane is simply allowed to air dry, it undergoes an irreversible loss of properties, prominent among which are the almost total and rapid loss of the essential ultra filtration property of the membrane, and major dimensional shrinkage. The subsequent rewetting of an air dried membrane is totally ineffective in restoring the properties of the original wet membrane. According to the present invention, it has now been found that dry polyetherepolycarbonate block copolymer membranes can be prepared from wet membrane substantially without loss of physical properties or dimensional changes in going from the wet to the dry form, and the dry membrane shows very minimal, if any, loss of strength or change of dimension over extended periods of time even when stored at room temperature. These novel dry membranes have been found to be stable over a wide range of conditions and are heat s ealable which permits their ready handling for incorporation in hemodialysis apparatus and permits their use in various dialyzer designs coil, parallel flow, etc. .Still further, the novel dry membranes of this invention have been found, upon being rewet, to retain substantially their original osmotic properties with little or no dimensional, permeability, or strength changes. SUIMARY OF THE INVENTION Briefly, the present invention comprises a substantially dry, flexible, nonwrinkled, stabilized, semipermeable polyether polycarbonate block copolymer hemodialysis membrane containing therein a water soluble polyol and having the ability after being rewetted with water to be used in a hemodialysis apparatus as a means for preferential removal of middle molecular weight molecules from blood, said polyether polycarbonate block copolymer containing 5 to 35 by weight of repeating alkylene ether carbonate units and from 95 to about 65 by weight of repeating bisphenol A carbonate units. This invention also includes the process for manur facturing a substantially dry, stabilized, rewettable, semipermeable membrane from a water wet polyether polycarbonate block copolymer membrane adapted to permit selective diffusion therethrough in a hemodialysis apparatus, which. process comprises the steps of ar contacting said water wet membrane with a solution comprising a water soluble polvol in a volatile solvent carrier therefor and b volatilizing substantially all of said solvent carrier from said membrane while leaving the colyol in the membrane thereby forming said dry, stabilized, rewettable membrane havina the ability after being rewetted with water to perform as an effective hemodialysis membrane. It is an object of the present invention to provide a novel dry, stabilized, polyether polycarbonate block copolymer hemodialysis membrane. More particularly, it is an object of the present invention to provide a novel dry, semiermeable, polyetherpolycarbonate block copolymer hemodialysis membrane containing therein a water soluble polyol. It is a major object of the present invention to provide a dry, stabilized, semipermeable polyetherpolycarbonate block copolymer hemodialysis membrane which is heat sealable and rewettable to regain its original osmotic properties without loss of strength or change of dimension. The present invention also has as one of its objects a process for the preparation of a dry, semipermeable, polyether polycarbonate block copolymer hemodialysis membrane. These and other objects of this invention will be apparent from the detailed description which follows.DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED ENODThMENTS In the drawings, FIGURE 1 illustrates a membrane drying machine which can be used to prepare the novel dried membranes of this invention. FIGURE 2 illustrates the improved results obtained by the practice of the present invention. Turning to FIGURE 1 in greater detail, the machine utilizes a wet membrane supply roll 10 at one end and a drymembrane wind up roll 12 at the other end. Three trays 14, 16 and 18 containing the poyol drying solutions hold immersed rollers 20 and elevated rollers 22 to convey the membrane through the solutions. A roller 24 directly after the third tray 18 incorporates a rubber squeegee pressing directly on the roll to remove excess drying solution. The final wind up roll 12 can roll up the dry membrane as free standing membrane or with a separator film such as siliconized paper from roll 28 wound in. This allows the membrane to be supported on the separator film to which it adheres slightly, making handling of the thin membrane much easier, and prevents wrinkling. Various methods of drying the membrane in the same train prior to final wind up can be provided including air streams, absorbent rollers 28 and vacuum rollers 30. Alternately, the volatile portions of the drying solutions can be pumped off from the final wound up membrane using vacuum. In FIGURE 1, the membrane is generally designed as 32. The polycarbonate material from which the dry hemodialysis membranes are fabricated in accordance with the present invention is a polyether polycarbonate block copolymer preferably containing from about 5 to about 35 by weight of the polyether component. It has been found that this proportion of polyether blocks renders the normally hydrophobic polycarbonate sufficiently hydrophilic so as to make it suitable for use as a hemodialysis membrane.Certain of such block copolymers may be prepared, for example, by the method of Goldberg,Journal of Polymer Science Part C, No. 44 pp. 707 730 1963 ., wherein a comonomer mixture of from about 95 to about 65 by weight of 2,2 4,4 dihydroxy dihenyl propane, generally known as bisphenol A, and correspondingly from about 5 to about 35 by weight of a polyether glycol such as polyethylene glycol, is reacted with a carbonic acid derivative such as phosgene.A polyethylene glycol which is found to be particularly suitable isCarbowax 6000, which is a polyethylene glycol having an average molecular weight of 6700, although polyethylene glycols of other molecular weight can also be used, such as, for ecample, Carbowax 600, Carbowax 1000 and Carbowax 4ago, which are polyethylene glycols having molecular weights of 600, 1000 and t000, respectively. In accordance with the above, the polyether polycarbonate copolymer consists of recurring units of the formula EMI5.1 wherein x is from about 12 to about 152 and a and b are chosen such that bisphenol A carbonate unit I is about 95t to 65 of the weight of the recurring unit and the alkylene ether carbonate unit II is about 5 to 35 of the weight of the recurring unit. Polyether glycols other than polyethylene glycols can also be used, such as, for example, polypropylene oxide polyethylene oxide block copolymers as exemplified by members of the Pluronic diol series such as Pluronic F68. Polyether .polycarbonate block copolymers having molecular weights ranging from about 50,000 to about 75Q,000 may suitably be Prepared in the above manner. A preferred range of molecular weights is from about 200,000 to about 5a0,000. The molecular weight is determined by the intrinsic viscosity method. The wet membranes used as the starting material in the present invention may be prepared from casting solutions by dissolving the solv ethereolycarbonate block copolymer in a water miscible organic solvent for the copolymer.The solvent preferably has a boiling point within the range of 50 to 85 C for optimum room temperature casting, The preferred solvent is 1,3 dioxolane which has the appropriate combination of high solvent power for the copolymer, suitable vapor pressure at 25 C, water miscibility and a boiling point of 75 to 76 0C. Other suitable solvents which can be employed include 1,3 dioxan, l,4 dioxan, tetrahydrofuran, butyrolactone, acetonitrile, cellosolve acetate, dimethylformamide, pyridine and mixtures thereof. The casting solutions are generally formulated to have a total solids content of from about 1 to about 20 weight percent to give dopes ranging in viscosity from about 5,000 to about 30,000 cps. Typically, solids contents range from about 10 to about 20 weight percent to give viscosities of from about 7,000 to about 25,000 cps, the preferred range. A swelling agent, such as dimethyl sulfoxide, dimethylformamide, dimethylacetamide, acetamide, formamide or pyridine is advantageously added to the casting solution in amounts ranging from 10 to about 75 by weight of the copolymer, the preferred range being from about 15 to about 25 by weight of the copolymer. The addition of the swelling agent has been found to enhance the permeability of the resulting membrane. Production of the wet polycarbonate membrane can be effected on a continuous basis by doctor blade casting of the casting solution onto a moving surface having a smooth finish, such as a coated release paper. The freshly cast and wet film is allowed to air dry at temperatures ranging from about 20 to about 300 C for periods ranging from about 1.0 to about 5.0 minutes to partially evaporate the solvent therefrom, the drying time being determined by both the belt speed and the drying distance, The partially dried film is gelled to produce the final membrane by immersion while still adhering to the moving belt, in a water bath. The gelation water bath temperature may be varied between about zero to about 400C, the preferred range being 20 to 300C. Efter gelation, the wet membrane is peeled from the moving belt and rolled up separately from the belt onto a cylindrical core.The wet membrane is finally washed thoroughly with deionized water to remove the last traces of solvent and swelling agent and stored in a sealed plastic bag or other container containing water and a sterilant such as formaldehyde. The final thickness of the wet membrane generally varies from about 0.60 to 1.5 mils, and preferably has a thickness between 0.60 and 0.95, depending upon the knife gap setting, casting solution viscosity, and belt speed. In the illustrative examples which are set forth hereinbelow, the wet membrane starting material was obtained in the following manner. A mixture of 2,860 gm of the polyether polycarbonate block copolymer obtained by reacting phosgene with a comonomer mixture of bisphenol A 75 wt and Carbowax aoo 25 wt l, and having an intrinsic viscosity of 1.57 in chloroform at 250C corresponding to a molecular weight of 320,000, 18,092 gm of 1,3 dioxolane and 572.0 gm of dimethyl sulfoxide, was slowly agitated until solution was effected approximately 16 hours . The crude solution was filtered in a pressure filter at 60 psig through a stainless steel nominal 1.5 pm filter cartridge to remove a small residue of fine insoluble matter. The resulting casting solution has a viscosity of 9,713 cps at 25 C.Approximately 5 gallons of the above filtered casting solution was cast via a doctor blade onto the surface of a 25 inch wide moving belt moving at a speed of about 3.5 feet per minute. The hopper end guides were set to provide a cast film width of 15 1 2 inches which produces membrane of width suitable for use in the Kiil dialyser , and the gap between the doctor knife and the moving belt surface was set at approximately 7.0 mils and adjusted during production to produce a membrane of final wet thickness of 0.80 e 0.05 mils. The casting solution is passed through a shroud 4211 long x 3811 wide x 6 1 2 high through which nitrogen at 235 standard cubic feet hour is passed.A total drying time for the cast film of about 1.7 minutes was allowed before gelation in a water bath.The ambient air temperature was maintained at 25.0 0.5 C and the gelation water bath temperature at 25 F 0.5 C. After gelation, the resulting wet membrane was peeled from the moving belt. The wet membrane was washed in a flowing stream of deionized water and can be stored in a sealed polyethylene bag containing 2 aqueous formaldehyde. The polyol drying agents used to replace the water in the wet polycarbonate membrane are non toxic LD50 equal to or greater than 500 mg kg, compounds which are normally liquid at room temperature and included glycerin, propylene glycol, dipropylene glycol, tripropylene glycol and higher polymers of propylene glycol, triethylene glycol, polyethylene glycols which are polymers of ethylene oxide and have the general formula HO 4CH2 CH2 OH where n equals 4 to 20, polymers of propylene oxide having the formula EMI9.1 where m equals 3 to 20, polyether glycols containing ethylene oxide and propylene oxide units commonly known as Pluronics, such as Pluronic F 68 supplied by BASF Wyandotte , methoxy derivatives of said polyethylene glycols, sucrose and glucose. The polyols used in this invention are preferably humectants having a hygroscopicity on the order of glycerin, and are non volatile at room temperature also on the order of glycerin. The polyols are also water miscible and preferably miscible in the lower alkanols such as ethanol and isopropanol. This quality of the polyols facilitates the incorporation of the polyol in the membrane, and its subsequent removal at the time of rewetting the membrane for hemodialysis. The polyols are incorporated into the wet membrane in the form of a solution of the polyol in water and or a lower alkanol containing 1 to 4 carbon atoms, preferably methyl alcohol, ethyl alcohol, propanol, isopropanol, and mixtures thereof which serve as a carrier for the polyol.It will be appreciated that in the wet membrane starting material, the pores or voids are filled with water. If the water in the pores of the wet membrane were replaced with pure glycerin, for example, this would cause some swelling of the polymer chains and tend to enlarge the pores, producing an undesired increase in the ultrafiltration rate of the subsequently rewetted membrane.To avoid this problem, the polyol is dissolved in water and or a lower alcohol, typically about 25 to 50 parts by weight of polyol per 75 to 50 parts by weight of the water and or alkanol carrier. The water in the wet membrane should be first displaced with the lower alkanol, before contact with the polyol solution. Preferably, this is done in stages as exemplified by trays 14, 16 and 18 where the initial wet membrane can be first contacted with a water alkanol mixture, then with pure alkanol, and finally with the polyol alakanol mixture. The membrane emerges from tray 18 imbibed with the polyol water alkanol solution. The water and alkanol are relatively volatile, and readily evaporate, leaving essentially only the polyol in the pores or voids of the membrane Any residual water or alkanol is a small amount on the order of 5 to 7 by weight of the dry membrane. The trays 14, 16 and 18 containing carrier and or polyol are maintained at about room temperature. The imbibition process occurs quickly, with a preferred residence time in each of the trays of about one to five, and preferably, two minutes. It has been found that any excess solution on the surface of the membrane as it emerges from the last tray should be physically removed by squeegee, blotter, scraping or vacuum to prevent undesired changes in the properties of the stored dry membrane. The amount of polyol in the dry membrane is approxi mately equivalent to that which effectively fills or occupies the voids or pores present in a dialysis membrane, and preferably is from 5 to 65 by weight, based on the total weight of the dry flexible membrane. More preferably, the preferable range is from 40 to 55 . The dry membrane is quite stable and can be stored for long periods. It can be easily handled, cut, and heatsealed to itself. Consequently, it is well adapted to the production of disposable dialysers. At the time of use, the dry membrane, usually in the form of a prefabricated dialyzer, is contacted with sterile water or physiological saline which rapidly, almost instantaneously, flushes out the polyol, and rewets the membrane.We have found that the rewetted membrane very closely approximates the the properties of the original wet membrane, and has a diffusive permeability to sodium chloride of about 650 to 860 cm min x 1C 4 and a diffusive permeability to to vitamin B12 of greater than 90 cm min x 10 , and an ultra filtration rate generally less than 4.0 ml hr 142 mmHg, both the diffusive permeabilities and ultra filtratifion rate measured at 37 C. The rewetted membrane also preferentially removes the middle molecular weight molecules from the blood. EXAMPLE 1 A mixture of methyl alcohol, ethyl alcohol and water 5 H2O, 85.5 ethanol, 9. 5 methanol was used as the solvent to carry the glycerine drying agent because of its high volatility and ease in drying. This mixture is referred to as 3A alcohol. The results using glycerine as the drying agent are presented in Table 1. In Table 1, the solutions in the trays are separately stated. For example, in Run No. 1, the first tray tray 14 contained a 5Q 5Q solution of water and 3A alcohol, the second tray tray 161 contained 100 3A alcohol, and the third tray tray 181 contained 62.5 37.5 glycerine dissolved in 3A alcohol. The ultra filtration, burst and permeability data reflect the properties of the membrane rewetted with dionized water. In the Tables, where blanks appear, no data were obtained. The initial Runs 1 and 2 utilized an additional dry train of supporting rollers wound with absorptive filterpaper as well as a warm air flow to remove the volatile components of the drying solution prior to wind up.Plastic squeegee type scrapers were used on the unsunported membrane directly out of the bath with Runs 1 and 2.Starting with Run 3, siliconized paper was wound in with the dry membrane with the siliconized side against the blood facing layer. This resulted in membrane that had little, if any, wrinkles and the volatile drying solution fractions were removed in a vacuum overnight at room temperature. Runs 4 and 5 were conducted using additional scrapers to remove more drying solution as an aid to the heat sealing properties of the membranes. Run 6 used a stationary squeegee roller to remove more drying solution.The rotational forces were too great to maintain the roller stationary without stretching the membrane. A smaller degree of membrane wrap around the squeegee roller was required. Run 7 was carried out using 190 proof pure ethanol in place of 3A alcohol as the carrier for glycerine. The dry membrane can be heat sealed usina an aspro priate type heat sealer. EXXIPLE 2 Several runs were made on the three tray drying train using varying concentrations of glycerine humectant andUltrawet K surfactant aryl alkylsulfonate potassium salt in water based drying solutions. The results are presented in Table 2. With membranes 8, 9 and 10, the glycerol concentration was reduced from 50 to 40 and the surfactant concentration from 2 to 1.4 . Essentially the same osmotic properties were obtained as the control. With 35 glycerine, membrane 11, a somewhat lower UF and a somewhat higher Nacl and Vitamin B12 permeability was obtained compared to the control. In Run 12, the Ultrawet K was replaced by 2 Triton X 100, a nonionic sulfactant. The dry membranes could be heat sealed using an appropriate heat sealer. In all subsequent Examples, the units for ultrafiltration, burst, thickness and permeability are as previously stated. TABLE 1 GLYCERINE ETHYL ALCOHOL 3A BASED DRYING SOLUTIONS Properties of the Dry Mebrane Ultrafiltration Thick NaCl B12Run Drying Solutions ml hr mmHg M2 ness Burst Permeability PermeabilityNo. Trays 14, 16, 18 Sticky Rate Mils OmHg cm min x 10 4 cm min x 10 4 Remarks None Wet Control 4.33 0.99 29.8 823 122 1 50 50 H2O 3A Alcohol Yes 7.2 Freestanding membrane 10 3A Alcohol roll up. Squeegee on 62.5 37.5 Glyoerine Membrane only 3A Alcohol 2 50 50 H2O 3A Alcohol Slightly 3.0 Freestanding membrane 100 3A Alcohol roll up. Squeegee on 40 60 Glycerine 3A Membrane only Alcohol 3 50 50 H2O 3A Alcohol Slightly 4.1 0.87 26.1 685 96 Rolled up with 100 3A Alcohol Siliconized paper 62.5 37.5 Glycerine 3A Alcohol 4 50 50 H2O 3A Alcohol Slightyl 3.9 0.95 29.0 633 91 Rolled in with 100 3A Alcohol Siliconized paper. 48 42 Glycerine Additional scraper 3A Alcohol on wet roll.5 50 50 H2O 3A Alcohol Slightly 4.4 1.02 29.3 613 94 Rolled in with 100 3A Alcohol Siliconized paper. 50 42 Clycerine Second roller with 3A Alcohol Squeegee on inactive layer TABLE 1 Continued GLYCERINE ETHYL ALCOHOL 3A BASED DRYING SOLUTIONS Properties of the Dry Membrane Ultrafiltration Thick NaCl B12Run Drying Solutions ml hr mmHg M2 ness Burst Permeability PermeabilityNo. Trays 14, 16, 18 Sticky Rate Mils OmHg cm min x 10 4 cm min x 10 4 Remarks 6 50 50 H2O 3A Alcohol Slightyl 5.45 0.96 28.5 811 111 Rolled in with 100 3A Alcohol Siliconized 58 42 Glycerine paper. 3A Alcohol Stationary squeegee roller 7 50 50 H20 190 Proof Slightly 3.7 104 Pure Ethanol 100 190 Proof Pure Ethanol 50 50 Glycerine 190 Proof Pure Ethanol TABLE 2 GLYCERINE WATER BASED DRYING SOLUTIONSRun Ultra VitaminNo. Tray 14 Tray 16x Tray 18 Filtration Burst Thickness NaCl B12 8 50 50 2 50 50 2 5.25 1.00 796 104 9 45 55 1.8 45 55 1.8 45 55 1.8 4.85 28.1 0.98 788 99 10 40 60 1.6 40 60 1.6 40 60 1.6 5.0 0.85 789 106 Control 4.39 1.07 713 104 11 35 65 1.4 35 65 1.4 35 65 1.4 4.01 1.06 753 104 Control 5.04 1.10 699 98 12 100 Water 50 50 2 2.79 26.4 1.25 595 107 Control 5.20 27.4 1.37 731 107XGlycerine H2O Ultrawet K alkyl arylsulfonate potassium salt on a weight percentage basis. Approximately three minute residence time tray. EXAMPLE 3 Run 13 was conducted using 3A alcohol as the carrier in the drying solution except for tray 18 where half the alcohol was isopropyl alcohol IPA . A UF rate of 3.3 was obtained. Run 1t was carried out using a 40 60 glycerineIPA solution with no 3A alcohol in the final solution.This membrane was dried and woundcin with siliconized paper. After the paper ran out, the membrane was wound free standing on the same roll without a wrinkle. Both the free standing membrane of Run 14 and the paper supported Run 15 membrane gave a lower UF than the previous Run 13.In Run 16, all of the 3A alcohol was replaced with IPA.In the Runs 17 and 18, only the free standing membrane was tested. Run 17 was tested from the middle of the dry membrane roll which had been supported on siliconized paper. This membrane gave a somewhat greater UF 2.97 vs. 2.4E indicating that the free standing membrane may have less permeability than the paper supported membrane in the middle of the rollEXAMPLE 4 Dry membranes 19 and 20 in Table 4 show the effect of tripling the immersion time in the three sequential drying solutions. The osmotic properties of the membranes were increased substantially. Immersion for only three minutes Run 21 in the third solution 40 60 Glyc IPA for varying times 3 to 10 min.l showed a trend toward a more open membrane at the longer immersion times. TABLE 2 GLYCERINE IPA BASED DRYING SOLUTIONSRun UltraNo. Tray 14 Tray 16 Tray 18 Filtration Thickness NaCl 13 H2O 3A Alc. 3A Alc. Glyc 3A IPA 3.3 0.63 743 50 50 100 40 30 30 14X H2O 3A Alc. 3A Alc. Glyc IPA 2.5 0.87 465 50 50 100 40 60 15XX H2O 3A Alc. 3A Alc. Glyc IPA 2.7 0.88 641 50 50 100 40 60 16X H2O IPA IPA Glyc IPA 2.4 0.80 50 50 100 40 60 17X H2O IPA IPA Glyc IPA 2.97 0.83 50 50 100 40 60 Control 5.2 1.13 729 18 H2O IPA IPA Glyc IPA 3.3 0.86 50 50 100 40 60 XFree standing membraneXXSiliconized paper supported membrane from the same run TABLE 4EFFECT OF IMMERSION TIEMIN IPA BASED DRYING SOLUTIONSHand Dried MembranesDry Membrane UltraNumber filtration Thichness NaCl B12 Total Immer.Immersion Time Minutes Solution 19 4.24 0.89 714 91 9 1, 2, 3 20 7.34 0.81 770 110 30 1, 2, 3 21 3.04 0.79 536 69 3 3 4.39 1.07 713 104 Control IMMERSION SOLUTIONSTray No. 14 Tray No. 16 Tray No. 18 50 50 100 40 60 IPA H2O IPA Glyc IPA EXAMPLE 5 Solutions of glycerol, isopropyl alcohol and water yield dry membranes as measured by UF rates which were essentially unchanged from the control polycarbonate membrane as shown in Table 5. Reducing the glycerol content progressively to 30 and 20 Runs 23 and 2t along with a reduction in the concentration of IPA to 19 and 13 resulted in a reduction in the UF rate.EXAMPLE 6 The dry membrane was stored at room temperature sealed in polyethylene bags on the original rolls of membrane obtained from continuous dry train runs. Two such membranes were tested for osmotic properties after several weeks storage and the data is presented in Table 6. Membranes 25 stored on siliconized paper and 26 stored free standing were re tested for UF rate and thickness after 32 and 24 days storage, respectively. The UF rate varied within a narrow limit from 4 to 7 of the original as shown in Table 6. The rewet membrane thickness varied from to 4 . These results indicate good storage properties of the dry membranes over the indicated time with either the siliconized paper supported or the freestanding membrane. TABLE 5 MEMBRANE DRYING STUDIES USING IPA CARRIER Hand Dried Membranes Meitibrane Drying x UltrafiltrationNumber Solution Rate 22 40 35 25 5.3 23 30 51 19E 2.5 24 20 67 13 0.8 Control 5.1Glycerine H2O IPA 10 minute immersion. Squeegeed off on siliconized paper and vacuum dried overnight at room temperature. TABLE 6 AGING STUDIES ON DRY MEMBRANE Ultrafiltra Re wet MembraneMembrane Storage tion Rate Percent Thickness PercentNumber Time Days Orig. Last of Charge Orig. Last of Change 25x 32 5.25 5.62 7 1.00 1.00 0 26xx 24 4.85 4.65 4 0.98 1.02 4 x Supported on Siliconized Paper xx Free standing Membrane EXAMPLE 7 In this example, polyethylene glycols, polymers of ethylene oxide with the formula HOCH2 CH2 OH H were used, where n corresponds to a molecular weight of about 200. They are soluble in water and quite stable to hydrolysis. In general, they are somewhat less hygroscopic than glycerine and they exhibit a very low order of toxicity.At a concentration of 40 in water, polyethylene glycol E 20QI gave a dry membrane with little, if any, plasticized effect. When the concentration of E 200 polyethylene glycol was reduced to 30 , this gave a dry membrane with excellent heattsealing properties and a UF rate of 1.9.As shown in Run 29, Carbowax 200 also gave satisfactory results.EXAMPLE 8 Pluronic F 68 is a polyethoxylated propylene glycol manufactured by Wyandotte Chemical Company. This particular material has been used extensively over the last ten years in clinical studies in blood, and has a solid history of non toxicity and blood compatibility. Solutions of F 68 in water and alcohol were used to treat wet membrane ample. The air dried, treated membranes were rewetted and tested for retention of ultrafiltration properties.The pluronic filled membranes possess a shiny surface, lubricity, and a dry feel . TABLE 7POLYETHYLENE GLYCOL DRYING SOLUTIONSMembrane Drying Dried Film Heat Thickness UltrafiltrationNumber SolutionX Condition Seal Mils Rate 27 None Yes 1.13 7.65 28 40 60 E 200XX H2O Fairly Dry Not quite 1.02 1.9 Fair Stretch 29 50 50 H2 1.1 9.7 IPA 100 IPA 60 40 CarbowaxXXX 200 IPAX Three minute immersion time.XX GAF Gafanol E 200 Polyethylene glycol having a molecular weight of about 200, available from General Aniline .XXX Polyethylen glycol having a molecular weight of about 200, available from Union Carbide. TABLE 8 Ultrafiltration Thickness P NaCl ml hr m2 mmHg Mils cm min x 10Control Membrane 6.2 1.15 720 40 Aqueous F 68 4.46 1.12 626 treatedEXAMPLE 9 A stock solution of glycerol water was placed in an open pan and 6 x 12r sheets of wet membrane were immersed in it for ten minute periods. In succession increments of 5 by weight of F 68 were added to the stock solution.Membranes were treated by immersion followed by air drying on a support. The samples of membranes were tested for ultra filtration characteristic after overnight drying at room temperature. The results are shown below. TABLE 9Percent Pluronic Ultrafiltration Rate inTreatinq Solution ml hr M2 mmHg 5 3.02 3.66 15 3.35Control 4.3 EXAMPLE 10 The following runs were carried out by hand immersion of the wet membranes in trays of drying solutions. As shown in Table 10, in some cases Runs 30 and 33 three trays containing progressive amounts of polyol were used.In other cases, a single tray of solution containing the polyol was used. After immersion, the wet membrane was then transferred to siliconized paper, squeegeed free of excess solution, and rolled up between two sheets of siliconized paper and dried in a vacuum oven at room temperature overnight. The data are presented in Table 10. Propylene glycol, sucrose, glucose and triethylene glycol were used as the polyols. Membrane UltraNumber Drying Solution Filtration Thickness Burst NaCl B12 30X 50 50 H2O IPA 11.4 1.08 26.9 905 135 100IPA 60 40 Propylen glycol IPA 31 50 50 2 Sucrose H2O 2.75 0.89 28.7 595 66 Ultrawet 602 32 30 70 0.01 2.4 0.77 d Glucose H2O Ultraset K 33 100 H2O 2.1 0.99 25.7 650 77 50 50 triethylene glycol H2O 50 50 triethylene glycol H2OXMembrane 30 indicates excessive swelling of the membrane which can be avoided by using a lesser amount of propylene glycol in the third tray. E SIPLE 11 This example further shows the properties of the novel dry membrane of this invention compared to the previously known wet membrane. Turning to FIGURE 2, the membrane of the ton or upper curve pertains to a dry membrane prepared as described inExample 2, Membrane S. The dry membrane was stored at room temperature for 10 weeks. The burst strength properties of the membrane, after immersion in deionized water to rewet the membrane and remove the glycerin, are shown at intervals of 2, 4 6 and 10 weeks. The UF and NaCl permeability were also measured at the beginning and end of the 10jeer period. As can be seen, there was little loss of burst strength, and the Up and NaC1 permeability were not substantially changed. The starting thickness of the membrane was 1.39 mils, The thickness after 10 weeks was 1.47 mils.Two wet membranes of essentially the same composition as the membrane just discussed, but which were never subjected to the drying procedure, were tested for comparis on,, each being stored at DH 7 with 2 formalin, and one being stored in a refriverator at 6 C, and the other being stored first for two weeks in the refrigerator, and thereafter at room temperature at 25 C. The starting and lQweeR thicknesses for the membrane stored in the refrigerator were l.26andl.30 mils, respectively. The same figures for the room temperature stored membrane were 1.26 and 1.32 mils. The two lower curves show that both wet membranes suffered a substantial decline in burst strength over the 10 week test period. These data demonstrate the improved results provided by the practice of this invention.