# Extraction process for the selective removal of cobalt II from aqueous solutions.

## Abstract
Cobalt II , nickel II bearing aqueous solutions may be treated with an extractant comprising an organic soluble phosphinic acid, or a salt thereof, to separate the cobalt II from the aqueous solution. Typical extraction techniques compatible with the instant process include liquid liquid extraction employing either mixer settlers or columns, packed beds of supported extractants as in ion exchange, liquid membrane extraction and selective supported mem brane extraction.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A process for the extraction of cobalt II from an aqueous cobalt II bearing, solution containing nickel II comprising contacting said solution with an extractant wherein said solution has an equilibrium pH of at least 3 and said extractant comprises an organic soluble phosphinic acid having at least six carbon atoms or an organic soluble salt thereof of the general structure EMI30.1 wherein R1 and R2 are individually substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, cycloalkyl, alkoxyalkyl, alkylcycloalkyl, aryl, alkylaryl, aralkyl or cycloalkylaryl radicals and X is either hydrogen or a salt forming radical. 2. The process of Claim 1 wherein the aqueous cobalt II bearing solution has an equilibrium pH of about 4 to 6 and extraction occurs at a temperature in the range of 00 to 800C. 3. The process of Claim 2 wherein the pH is 4.5 0.5 and the temperature is 200 to 7O0C. 4. The process of Claim 2 wherein the organic soluble phosphinic acid is dicyclohexylphosphinic acid. 5. The process of Claim 2 wherein the organic soluble phosphinic acid is 2,4,4 trimethylpentyl,cyclohexylphosphi nic acid. 6. The process of Claim 2 wherein the organic soluble phosphinic acid is di 2,4,4 trimethylpentylphosphinic acid. 7. A process for the extraction of cobalt II from an aqueous cobalt II bearing solution containing nickel II and having a pH of about 4 to 6 comprising contacting said solution with an extraction solvent at about 0 to 800C., thereafter separating the aqueous phase from the cobalt II loaded phase wherein said extraction solvent comprises from about 2 to 99 parts by volume of an organic soluble phosphinic acid having at least 2 carbon atoms or an organic soluble salt thereof, from about 98 to 1 parts by volume orN a water imm isdible organic diluent and from 0 to about 15 parts by volume of a phase modifier. 8. The process of Claim 7 wherein from about 0.05 to 20 parts by volume of the aqueous solution are employed per part by volume of the extraction solvent. 9. The process of Claim 7wherein from about 1.0 to 10 parts by volume of the aqueous solution are employed per part by volume of the extraction solvent. 10. The process of Claim 7 wherein the organic soluble phosphinic acid is dicyclohexyl phosphinic acid. 11. The process of Claim 7 wherein the organic soluble phosphinic acid is 2,4,4 trimethylpentyl,cyclohexylphosphi nic acid. 12. The process of Claim 7 wherein the organic soluble phosphinic acid is di 2,4,4 trimethylpentylphosphinic acid. 13 A process according to Claim 7 with the additional steps of contacting the cobalt II loaded extraction solvent with an aqueous solution of a mineral acid at about 0 800C. to strip the cobalt II into the aqueous phase separate the cobalt II containing aqueous phase and, recovering the stripped extraction solvent for subsequent reuse. 14. The process according to Claim wherein the mineral acid is an aqueous solution of sulfuric acid containing about 10 200 grams of sulfuric acid per liter of solution. 15. A process according to Claim 7with the additional steps of contacting the cobalt II loaded extraction solvent with an aqueous solution of a cobalt II salt of a mineral acid at about 0 80 C. to remove co extracted nickel II from the loaded solvent to the aqueous phase separating the aqueous phase from the cobalt II loaded extraction solvent and recovering the scrubbed cobalt II loaded extraction solvent. 16. The process according to Claim 15 wherein said aqueous solution of a cobalt II salt of a mineral acid contains either c6baltsulfate , cobalt nitrate or cobalt chlo ride. 17. A process according to Claim 15 with the additional steps of contacting the cobalt II loaded extraction solvent with an aqueous solution of a mineral acid at about 0 800C. to strip the cobalt II into the aqueous phase separate the cobalt II containing aqueous phase and, recovering the stripped extraction solvent for subsequent reuse. 18. The process of Claims 1 or 7 wherein the organic soluble phosphinic acid salt is selected from the group comprising alkali metal salts, ammonium salts, nickel salts and tetrabutylammonium salts. 19. The process of Claims 1 or 7 wherein the extraction technique employed is selected from the group consisting of liquid liquid extraction, extraction through packed beds of supported reagents, liquid membrane extraction and selective supported membrane extraction. 20. The compound di 2,4,4 trimethylpentYlphos phinic acid. 21. The compound 2,4,4 trimethylpentyl, cyclo hexylphosphnic acid.

## Description
TITLE EXTRACTION PROCESS FOR THE SELECTIVE REMOVAL OF COBALT II FROM AQUEOUS SOLUTIONS BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to hydrometallurgy.More particularly, it relates to the recovery of metals frori aqueous solutions by extraction techniques and subsequent scrubbing and stripping of the metal loaded extractant. The extraction of cobalt II from leach liquors containing nickel II , by means of water immiscible organic solutions containing bis 2 ethylhexyl hydrogen phosphate, is well known in the art. However, the relatively poor selectivity of this reagent has limited its application by solvent extraction to leach liquors containing nickel II cobalt II ratios below 5. Even in these liquors, the process requires expensive, multistage contacting devices to achieve a cobalt II nickel II ratio of about 1,000 in the final product. With leach liquors containing higher nickel II cobalt II ratios, for example 50 1, separation of cobalt II by solvent extraction can only be achieved using amines and a chloride leach liquor. However, in the chloride systems corrosion is a problem. Alternatively, the Outokumpu Oy hydrometallurgical process may be used, but it is expensive. The major advantage of the process of Belgian Patent 871,963 over the use of bis 2 ethylhexyl hydrogen phosphate lies in the much greater selectivity of cobalt II extraction over nickel II extraction by the use of phosphonates. The separation factor obtained with the phosphonates is an order of magnitude higher than that obtained with bis 2 ethylhexyl hydrogen phosphate. There is still a need, however, for other extractants that have high selectivity for the separation of cobalt II from nickel II , and will allow most of the cobalt II to be stripped from the extract with a mineral acid. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The present invention provides a process for the removal of cobalt II from an aqueous cobalt II bearing solution containing nickel II comprising contacting said solution with an extractant wherein said extractant employed comprises an organic soluble phosphinic acid having at least 6 carbon atoms or a salt thereof. The present invention also provides a process, as described above, with the additional steps of contacting the cobalt II loaded extractant prior to separation with an aqueous solution of a cobalt II salt of a mineral acid to remove co extracted nickel II from the loaded extractant to the aqueous phase separating the aqueous phase from the cobalt II loaded extractant and thereafter recovering the scrubbed cobalt II loaded extractant. The present invention also provides processes, as described above, with the additional steps of contacting the residual cobalt II loaded organic solution, or scrubbed cobalt II loaded extractant, with an aqueous solution of a strong mineral acid to strip the cobalt II into the aqueous acidic phase separating the aqueous acidic phase containing water soluble cobalt II salts and, recovering the stripped organic phase for subsequent reuse in the extraction of another aqueous solution. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION In carrying out the processes of the present invention, extraction techniques believed compatible with an extractant comprising an organophosphinic acid include, but are not limited to, liquid liquid extraction employing either mixer settlers or columns, such as the reciprocating plate extraction column, pulse columns or columns employing rotating impellers packed beds of supported extractants wherein the support can be an inert material, such as diatomaceous earth, or a polymer such as crosslinked polystyrene, the latter approach being more explicitly described in U.S. Patent No.3,960,762 issued to Kroebel et al. in 1976 liquid membrane extraction as described by Bock, Valint and Hayworth of ExxonResearch and Engineering Company and selective supported membrane extraction as described by Obermayer, Nichols, Allen and Caron of the Molenulon Research Corporation. The extractant itself is an organic soluble phosphinic acid or the organic soluble salt thereof. The free phosphinic acids and their alkali metal or ammonium salts are preferred, but other salts such as nickel or tetrabutylammonium salts may be employed if desired. Although pure extractant can be used, it is generally preferred to employ an extraction solvent comprising from about 2 to 99 parts by volume of extractant with from about 98 to 1 parts by volume of a water immiscible organic diluent, preferably from about 2 to 70 parts by volume of the extractant with from about 98 to 30 parts by volume of diluent. The extraction solvent may optionally contain from 1 to 15 parts by volume of a phase modifier to promote the separation of the phases and or increase the solubility of the extracted cobalt II salt in the organic phase.If a phase modifier is employed, the amount of organic diluent used should be reduced by a corresponding amount. Generally, a wide variety of water immiscible organic liquids may be used as the diluent. Suitable diluents include, but are not limited to, carbon tetrachloride, toluene, xylene, kerosene, naphtha, tridecanol, methylisobutylketone, tributylphosphate, cyclohexane, decane, pyridine, dibromoethane, and the like. Preferably, the diluent is an aliphatic or aromatic petroleum distillate. Suitable phase modifiers, when employed, include tributylphosphate, trimethylphosphine oxide, tributylphosphine oxide, trihexyl phosphine oxide, trioctylphosphine oxide, isodecanol, and the like. The preferred process employs dicyclohexylphosphinic acid which is more soluble in aromatic e.g., Exxon Aromatic 100 and 150 than in aliphatic diluents. The organic soluble phosphinic acid or salt thereof is generally represented by the following structure EMI4.1 wherein R1 and R2 are individually substituted or unsubstituted alkyl cycloalkyl, alkoxyalkyl, alkylcyclo alkyl, aryl, alkylaryl, aralkyl or cycloalkylaryl radicals and X is either hydrogen or a salt forming radical. Preferably, the organic soluble phosphinic acid is dicyclohexylphosphinic acid since it demonstrates significant selectivity and separates cobalt against calcium without leaving behind precipitates of calcium salts at the interface. Typical organophosphinic acids within the purview of the present invention include, but are not limited to dimethyl diethyl di n propyl diisopropyl di n butyl diisobutyl di n pentyl di n hexyl di n heptyl di n octyl di n nonyl di n decyl di n dodecyl di n tetradecyl din hexadecyl di n eicosyl bist2,4,4 trimethylpentyl 2,4,4 trimethylpentyl cyclohexyl 2,,4 trimethylpentyl octyl dicyclopentyl dicyclohexyl dicyclooctyl cyclohexyl, n butyl cyclopentyl, n dodecyl cyclooctyl ethyl 2,4,6 trLisopropyl 1,3,5 dioxaphosphorinane, 5 hydroxy, 5 oxide cyclohexyl, phenyl cyclopentyl p tolyl cyclooctyl p chloropenyl diphenyl di o tolyl di m tolyl di p tolyl bis 2,3 dimethylphenyl bis 2,4 dimethylphenyl bis 2,5 dimethylphenyl bis 2,6 dimethylphenyl bis 3,4 dimethylphenyl bis 3,5 dimethylphenyl di p ethylphenyl di p octylphenyl ethylphenyl n butylphenyl n octyl,phenyl n hexadecylphenyl ethyl o tolyl n octyl p tolyl bis o chlorophenyl bis m chlorophenyl bis p chlorophenyl methyl chlorophenyl n propyl p chlorophenyl n dodecyl p chlorophenyl dibenzyl methyl naphyl diallyl cyclohexyl,l hydroxycyclohexyl bis 2 methyl l hydroxypentyl benzyl , alpha hydroxybenzyl o chlorobenzyl, alpha hydroxy o chlorobenzyl p chlorobenzyl, alpha hydroxy p chlorobenzyl phenyl, alpha methylbenzyl cyclopentyl, l hydroxy cyclopentyl alpha methylbenzyl, alpha hydroxyl alpha methylbenzyl l methylpentyl,l hdroxy l methylpentyl n octyl ,alpha hydroxybenzyl l hydroxy l methylethyL isopropyl. Additionally, mixtures of one or more of the organophosphinic acids may be employed. In carrying out the proces of the present invention, the cobalt II bearing aqueous solution, is contacted either by batch, continuously co current or continuously countercurrent, with the extraction solvent. The aqueous solution should have an equilibrium pH of at least 3. It is preferred that the aqueous solution have an equilibrium p9 of 4.0 to 6.0, more preferably, 4.5 0.5, since very low pH results in poor cobalt recovery, and very high pH is deleterious to phase disengagement. The ratio of aqueous to organic phase should be chosen topmost effectively remove the cobalt II . Aqueous to organic ratios of from 1 20 to 20 1 are believed to be effective, although other ratios may prove to be effective, depending upon the specific separation.The preferred dicyclohexylphosphinic acid solvent has been found to have a stoichiometric loading capacity of 12 gpl cobalt II per 100 gpl solvent. Phase contact is commonly achieved in devices called mixer settlers , although many other types of devices are available and suitable. In the mixer, one phase is dispersed within the other by stirring or some other appropriate form of agitation. The extraction solvent then forms a complex with the cobalt II which reports to the organic phase of the two phase liquid mixture. The dispersion then flows to the settler where phase disengagement occurs under quiescent conditions. Generally, extraction is carried out between 0 800C., preferably 20 700C.Since elevated temperatures are required to obtain good phase disengagement, when dicyclohexlyphosphinic acid is employed a minimum temperature of 35 to 400c. is recommended. The maximum temperature being determined by the diluents flashpoint. Depending on the cobalt II nickel II ratio in the aqueous feed solution, the cobalt II loaded solvent may or may not have to be scrubbed to remove co extracted nickel II in order to achieve the desired product purity. This is achieved by contacting the loaded solvent with a concentrated aqueous solution of a cobalt salt, approximately 30 g l of cobalt II , at aqueous phase organic phase ratios between 0.05 and 2, preferably 0.1 and 1. Initial studies indicate that any co extracted nickel can be scrubbed from the loaded solvent with an aqueous solution of a cobalt salt. Generally, scrubbing is carried out at 0 800C., preferably about 20 600C. The cobalt II loaded extraction solvent, one part by volume, is stripped by contacting it with about 0.05 2.0 parts by volume, preferably about 0.1 0.5 part by volume, of a solution of a mineral acid at about 0 800C., preferably about 20 600C. at a pH of approximately 1.0. As a result, the cobalt II reports to the aqueous phase in the form of a soluble salt of the mineral acid employed. Phase contact may be achieved with mixer settlers, or other suitable devices. Suitable mineral acids include sulfuric, hydrochloric, hydrofluoric, nitric, and the like. The preferred mineral acid is sulfuric acid containing about 10 200 grams of sulfuric acid per liter, preferably about 30 100 grams per liter. The stripped cobalt II free solvent is recycled to the extraction circuit for treatment of incoming cobalt II bearing solutions. The extractant may be recycled to the extraction circuit in the form of the free phosphinic acid. In this case pH cpntrol by the addition of a base is required in the extraction circuit. Alternatively, the recycled solvent may be pretreated and converted to the alkali metal or ammonium salt form before reporting to the extraction circuit. In the latter case, pH control in the extraction circuit is not required. The cobalt II bearing strip liquors may be treated by conventional means to recover cobalt metal, for example, by hydrogen reduction. It is to be understood that although much of the preceding disclosure relates to liquid liquid extraction, the principles and properties are believed to extend to those other extraction techniques previously set forth. Whereas the exact scope of the instant invention is set forth in the appended claims, the following specific examples illustrate certain aspects of the present invention, and, more particularly, point out methods of evaluat ing the same. However, the examples are set forth for illustration only and are not to be construed as limita tins on the present invention except as set forth in the appended claims . All parts and percentages are by weight unless otherwise specified. EXAMPLE 1 The following example illustrates the ability of dioctylphosphinic acid to separate cobalt II and nickeltII under different pH conditions. The dioctylphosphinic acid is dissolved in an ali phatic petroleum diluent to obtain a concentration of 15 by volume, then a predetermined amount of 28 ammonium hydroxide is added to adjust the pH. An aliquot C50 mls is shaken at 50 C. for l,Q minutes with an equal volume of an aqueous solution containing 10.24 1 of cobalt II and 10.12 g l of nickeltII , respectively, as sulfate salts, to extract the cobalt II into the organic phase. The aqueous phase is then separated from the organic phase and analyzed for cobalt II content. Based on the results obtained, the percent cobaltCIIS extracted is calculated by mass balance.The percent nickel II extracted is determined by analyzing the organic phase. The results obtained areshown in Table Iq TABLE I Percent Extr action Equilibrium pil Co II Ni II 2.54 6.25 0 2.90 8.59 0.33 3.25 24.8 0.61 3.55 43.5 0.78 4.12 75.8 0.91 5.01 89.6 2.42 5.73 98.5 9.15 EXAMPLE 2 The procedure of Example 1 is followed except that dihexylphosphinic acid is used as the extractant, and the initial aqueous solution contains 10.38 g l of cobalt CIIIL, and 10.42 g l of nickel II , as sulfate salts. The results obtained are shown in Table II. TABLE II Percent Extraction Equilibrium pH Co 11 Ni II 3.10 10.2 0.55 3.46 36.2 1.14 3.78 63.0 1.17 4.23 81.5 2.22 5.00 97.8 7.39 5.22 98.0 13.7 COMPARATIVE EXAMPLE A The procedure of Example 1 is followed except that bis 2 ethylhexyl hydrogen phosphate is used as the extractant, and the initial aqueous solution contains 10.38 g l of cobaltCII , and 10.42 g l of nickel IIl, as sulfate salts. The results obtained are shown in Table III. TABLE III Percent Extraction Equilibrium pH Co II Ni II 2.90 2.90 4.41 3.33 36.10 7.29 4.00 58.1 13.6 4.68 70.3 21.3 5.61 85.3 31.9 A comparison of the results obtained in Examples 1, 2, and Comparative Example A when the pH is calculated at pE 5.0, shows that the separation is of an order of magnitude higher than that of bis 2 ethylhexyl hydrogen phosphate. Extractant Separation Factor dihexylphosphinic acid 520 dioctylphosphinic acid 348 bis 2 ethylhexyl hydrogen phosphate 11 1 Separation Factor EOA Co II where E Ni II equilibrium concentration of A the metal in the organic phase equilibrium concentration of the metal in the aqueous phase EXAMPLE 4 The procedure of Example 1 is followed except that 15 by volume of dihexylphosphinic acids used in an aromatic petroleum solvent, together with 5 by volume of isodecanol, as a a phase modifier, and the initial aqueous solution contains 2.06 g l of cobaltÌI , and 101.4 g l of nickelI , as sulfate salts.The results obtained are shown in Table IV. TABLE IV Percent Extraction Equilibrium pH Co it Ni II 2.51 2.00 0.04 3.41 28.5 0.70 4.00 59.5 1.76 4.69 84.3 4.22 5.02 89.9 6.54 5.10 90.2 6.76 Based on the above data, the separation factor at pE 5.0 is 127. COMPARATIVE EXAMPLE B The procedure of Example 4 is followed in every detail except that bist2 ethylhexyllhyarogen phosphate is used instead of dihexylphosphinic acid. The results obtained are shown in Table V. TABLE V Percent Extraction Eauilibrium pH Co II Ni 11 3.02 10.4 3.16 3.50 18.0 3.35 3.59 22.6 4.54 4.65 22.6 9.07 5.21 22.6 13.6 Based on the above data, the separation factor at pH 5 is 2.3. Comparison with the separation factor at pH 5 in Example 4 shows that dihexylphosphinic acid is an order of magnitude more selective than bis 2 ethylhexyl hydrogen phosphate. EXAMPLE 6 The procedure of Example 1 is followed except that 15 by volume of diisobutylphosphinic acid is used in an aromatic petroleum solvent, together with 5 by volume of isodecanol, and the initial aqueous solution contains 10.20 g l of cobalt .IIl, and 10.12 g l of nickel II , as sulfate salts. The results obtained are shown in Table VI. TABLE VI Percent Extraction Equilibrium pH Co II Ni II 2.90 10.6 0.05 3.24 23.1 0.07 3.55 44.9 0.11 3.77 63.9 0.12 3.96 80.4 0.15 EXAMPLE 7 The following example illustrates treatment of the cobalt IIl loaded solvent. for the removal of co extracted nickel II to achieve a final product wherein the weight ratio of cobalt II to nickel CII is greater than 500. The procedure of Example 4 is followed at an equilibrium pH of the aqueous phase of 4.54 to obtain a loaded solvent containing 1.56 g l of cobalt II , and 4.92 g l of nickel II . The loaded solvent is then shaken for 5 minutes at 500C. with an equal volume 50 mls of an aqueous solution of cobalt sulfate t30 g l of cobalt II . The equilibrium pE of the aqueous phase is adjusted to 5 with ammonium hydroxide and the two phases are shaken again for 5 minutes at 500C. This is repeated for a total of four contacts. At this point, analysis shows that the organic phase contains 5.88 g l of cobalt ,II , and 0.01 g l of nickel II . EXAMPLF 8 The loaded solvent of Example 7 100 mlsl, con taining 1.56 g l of cobalt II , and 4.92 g l of nickel II , is shaken with 3 by weight H2S04 in water .25 mls at 50 CC. for 5 minutes. Analysis shows that 92.78 of nickel II , and 25.6 of cobalt .II2, has been stripped from the organic phase. This result shows that the nickel II in the loaded solvent is more easily stripped therefrom than cobalt EXAMPLE 9 The procedure of Example 4 is followed except that the initial aqueous solution contains 13.2 g l of cobalt II , as cobalt sulfate. A 50 ml aliquot bf the extraction solvent is contacted for 10 minutes at 500C. with. a 50 ml aliquot of the. aqueous solution, the aqueous phase is separated, and the cobalt II loaded solvent is contacted again with a fresh 50 ml aliquot of aqueous feed solution. This is repeated for a total of 4 contacts with fresh aqueous feed solution.The cobalt Ill loaded solvent is then contacted for 5 minutes at 50 C. with 5 sulfuric acid at aqueous phase organic phase A O volume. ratios of 1 3, and 1 2, respectisely. The results obtained are shown below. Percent Cobalt II A O Stripped 1 3 80.8 1 2 100 The above results show that when A O is 1 2 a quantitative recovery of cobalt CII from the organic phase is. obtained. EXAMPLE 10 The procedure of Example 1 is followed except that a solution of 5.5 v y of the 1,3,5 dioxaphosphorine 2,4,6triisopropyl 5 hydroxy 5 oxide extractant plus 5 v v isodecanol in SolvessoX 100 Exxon Corp. is used.. The initial sulfate solution contained 1.74 g l Co and 104.8 g l Ni. The results obtained are shown in Table VII. A separation factor of 5740 is calculated from the data at pH 4.64. TABLE VII Metal Extraction Equilibrium pH Co Ni 2.50 0 0 3.50 25.3 0.16 4. 28 75. 4 0.33 4.64 97.0 0.56 EXAMPLE 11 The procedure of Example 1 is followed except that a solution of 15 v v of the dicyclohexylphosphinic acid extractant plus 5 v v isodecanol in Solvesso 100 is used. The initial sulfate solution contained 2.16 g l Co and 110.4 g l Ni. From the data shown in Table VIII a separation factor of 4836 is calculated at pH 4.65. TABLE VIII Metal Extraction Eauilibrium pH Co Ni 2.58 0.74 0.03 3.78 69.1 0.10 4 4.05 73.1 0.10 4.65 95.0 0.39 EXAMPLE 12 The procedure of Example 1 is followed except that a solution of 180 grams per liter of the bis 2,4,4 trimethylpentyl phosphinic acid extractant plus 5 v v isodecanol inVarsol DX 3641 is used. The initial sulfate solution contained 1.90 g l Co and 103.6 g l Ni. A separation factor of 407 at pH 5.12 is calculated from the data shown in TableIX. TABLE IX Equilibrium pH Metal Extraction Co Ni 2.63 3.1 0 3.62 29.5 0.89 4.30 57.6 0.99 4.89 83. 1.63 5.00 88.5 1.93 5.12 91.2 2.48 EXAMPLE 13 The procedure of Example 1 is followed except that a solution of 135 grams per liter of the bis 3,3 dimethylbutyl phosphinic acid extractant in Solvesso 100 is used, in combination was 5 v v isodecanol. The initial aqueous sulfate solution contained 2.07 gil Co and 95.5 g l Ni. From the data in Table X separation factor of 219 is calculated at pH 4.68. TABLE X Equilibrium cH 5 Metal Extraction Co Ni 2.57 3.4 0.02 3.4 6 28.8 0.35 3.70 44.0 0.55 4.68 86.2 2.76 EXAMPLE 14 The procedure of Example 1 is followed except that a solution of 15 v v of the di n octylphosphinic acid extractant in Kermac 470B is used. The initial sulfate solution contained 2.12 g l Co and 104.2 g l Ni. A separation factor of 86 at pH 5 is calculated from the data shown in Table XI. TABLE XI Equilibrium PH Metal Extraction Co Ni 3.40 41.6 1.45 4.23 70.9 2.46 4.81 84.4 4.93 5.05 85.0 6.96 5.38 84.4 9.31 COMPARATIVE EXAMPLE C The procedure of Example 1 is followed except that a solution of 15 v v of the octylphosphonic acid, decyl ester extractant acid plus 5 v v isodecanol in Solves 100 is used. The initial aqueous sulfate solution contained 2.06 g l Co and 101.4 g l Ni. From the data shown in Table XII, a separation factor of 21 is calculated at a pH 4.89. TABLE XII Equilibrium i Metal Extraction Co Ni 2.72 4.76 1.73 3,13 17.4 2.41 3.85 35.6 5.13 4.35 47.0 7.32 4.63 64.0 8.95 4.89 69.2 9.71 EXAMPLE 15 The procedure of Example 1 is followed except that a solution of 180 gpl of the di 2,2,4 trimethylpentylphosphinic acid in So1vesso 100 modified with 5 v v isodecanol is used.The initial sulfate solution contained 1.97 gpl Co and 93.6 gpl Ni. The A O ratio is 1.0 and the temperature is maintained at 500C. for a ten 10 minute contact. Test results are given in Table XIII. Metal Extraction Co Ni Separation Equilibrium Co Ni Factor pH 3.09 o 2.81 38.2 0.28 217 3.99 85.1 1.10 516 97.8 2.22 1975 5.33 100 3.10 5.52 EXAMPLE 16 The procedure of Example 1 is followed except that a solution of 180 gpl of the di 2,4,4 trimethylpentylphosphinic acid in VarsoleDX 3641 modified with 5 v v isodecanol is used. The initial sulphate solution contained 1.90 gpl Co and 103.6 gpl Ni. The A O ratio is 1.0 and the temperature is maintained at 500C. for a 10 minute contact. Test results are set forth in Table XIV. TABLE XIV Metal Extraction Co Ni Separation Equilibrium Co Ni Factor DH 3.1 o 2.63 29.5 0.89 3.62 57.6 0.99 135 4.30 83.5 1.63 305 4.89 88.5 1.93 391 5.00 91.2 2.48 407 5,12 EXAMPLE 17 The procedure of Example 1 is followed except that a solution of 169 gpl 2,4,4 trimethylpentyl,cyclohexyl phosphinic acid in Solvesso 100 modified with 5 v v isodecanol is used. The initial sulphate solution contains 2.05 gpl cobalt and 102.4 gpl nickel. The A O ratio is 1.0, the temperature is maintained at 500C for a five 5 minute contact. Test results are given in Table XV. TABLE XV Metal Extraction Co Ni Separation Equilibrium Co Ni Factor pH 85.1 0.78 726 4.70 95.6 1.66 1274 5.18 98.4 3.19 1910 5.53 99.9 4.64 21030 5.80 EXAMPLE 18 26 g. of polystyrene beads are placed in a rotary evaporator with 5.4g. of dihexylphosphinic acid dissolved in toluene. The toluene is stripped and the polystyrene beads are transferred to a Jones reductor in the form of an aqueous slurry. 100 mls. of a cobalt nickel sulphate leach liqpor approximately 2.2 gpl Co, 100 gpl Ni, initial pH 6.2 are passed through the column at a rate of approximately 10 mls min. The beads developed a distinct blue color, indicating formation of the tetrahedrally co ordinated Co phosphinic acid complex. The column is then washed with distilled water pH 5.6 until low nickel assays 10 ug ml are observed in the wash water. Analysis indicated that a cobalt recovery of 15 is achieved. The column is then eluted with 10 H2S64. The eluate is found to contain 604 ug Co ml and 97 ug Ni ml. These experiments demonstrate the use of supported phosphines in this application. EXAMPLE 19 Following the procedure of Example 4 in every material detail except that the extraction solvent now contains 1 percent by volume of diphenylphosphinic acid, substantially similar results are obtained. EXAMPLE 20 Following the procedure of Example 4 in every material detail except that the extraction solvent now contains 1 percent by volume of bis 4 methylphenyl phosphinic acid, substantially similar results are obtained. EXAMPLES 21 23 Following the procedure of Example 9 in every material detail except that in place of the sulfuric acid solution there is now employed a solution of hydrochloric, hydrofluoric, or nitric acid, substantially similar results are obtained. EXAMPLE 24 The procedure of Example 1 is followed except that a solution of 100 gpl of dicyclohexylphosphinic acid in Sol vessotl50 modified with 10 v v tridecanol is used. This solvent is loaded with 1 gpl Fe 3. The A O ratio is 3.0, the temperature is maintained at 500C for a 5 minute contact with 300 gpl H2S04 for stripping. Test results are as follows A O S Fe 3 StriDDed 0.5 100 1 93 2 96The data indicate the ability of H2S04 tp strip co extracted impurity metals from the organophosphinic acid. Analogous results are obtained with Cu and Zn. EXAMPLE 25 Following the procedure of Example 1 in every material detail except that in place of the cobalt II and nickel II being sulfate salts they are as nitric salts, chloride salts or fluoride salts, substantially similar results are obtained. EXAMPLE 26 When a solution of 30 parts of styrene, 20 parts of 55 divinyl benzene, 0.5 parts of azobis isobutyronitrile and 25 parts of bis 2,4,4 trimethylpentyl phosphinic acid is introduced into a starting mixture of 400 parts of 0.2 methyl cellulose solution and the mixture is heated under nitrogen atmosphere with rapid stirring at 800C for 10 hours and further heated for 1 hour at gOOC then, after cooling, if the resulting polymer beads are filtered, washed with water, and then dried in a vacuum oven, the resultant polymer beads will extract cobalt II from a cobalt II bearing solution. The invention additionally relates to di 2,4,4 tri rnethylpentylphosphine acid, i.e.EMI19.1 and a method for the production thereof which comprises free radical addition of two moles of 2,4,4 trimethylpentene l to 2,4,4 trimethylpentylphosphine followed by its oxidation with two moles of hydrogen peroxide. The end product, either as an acid or in its salt form, finds utility as a cobalt extractant and, more speciically, as a selective extractant for cobalt 11 in aqueous cobalt 11 bearing solutions containing nickel II . In the preparati n of this compound free radical initiators of the azobis te are preferred although others, such as the peroxides, may be used. Azobisobutrylnitrile is the most preferred. Pure 2,4,4 trimethylpentene l is commercially available or may be prepared with diisobutylene. The temperature range of the reaction is dIrectly related to the half life of the initiator employed. For azobisobutrylnitrile the temperature range should be from about 40 1100C., preferably 600 to 90 C The phosphine addition will take place at any temperature, however to reduce unwanted tri 2,4,4 trimethylpentylphosphine, high phosphine pressures, i.e., high phosphine to olefin mole ratios, are required.The preferred range is 300 700 psig although pressure ranging from 0 to 1000 psig can be employed. Under high phosphine conditions the mono 2,4,41 trimethylpentylphosphine formed can be recycled and converted into the di form. Tri 2,4,4 trimethylpentylphosphine formed under low phosphinic pressures is a yield loss. In the oxidation stage, the oxidation of the di alkylphosphine to the dialkylphosphine oxide is exothermic and takes place readily at 300C. 1000C., preferably for this first oxidation step at 500C. 700C. To convert the dialkylphosphine oxide to the dialkylphosphinic acid, the temperature should be increased to within 5O0C. to 1200C., preferably 8O0C. to 1000C. Higher temperatures tend to remove one alkyl group forming some monoalkylphosphonic acid. At lower temperatures the oxidation is rather slow and excessive reaction times may be required. Whereas the exact scope of the instant invention is set for th in the appended claims, the following specific examples illustrate certain aspects of the present invention, and, more particularly, point out methods of evaluating the same. However, the examples are set forth for illustration only and are not to be construed as limitations on the present invention except as set forth in the appended claims. All parts and percentages are by weight unless otherwise specifield. EXAMPLE 27 1500 parts of diisobutylene a commercial source of 2,4,4 trimethylpentene l consisting of 70 2,4,4 trimethylpentene l and 30 2,4,4 trimethylpentene 2 is charged to the autoclave along with 25 parts azobis isobuturylnitrile Vazo 64e . The autoclave is pressurized to 550 psig with phosphine and is quickly heated to 6O0C. At this point the pressure begins to drop as the phosphine addition to 2,4,4 trimethylpentene l begins. The pressure is maintained at 550 psig by the addition of more phosphine. The temperature is slowly raised from 600C. to 90 C. over a 4 1 2 hour period. A further 1 2 hour at 90 100 C. destroys any remaining initiator and the reaction stops. The excess phosphine is vented off and the reaction product is cooled and discharged.A total of 546 parts of phosphine are used in the reaction. 1593 parts of product containing 15.62 2,4,4 trimethylpentene l, 19.34 2,4,4 trimethylpentene 2, 34.63 mono 2,4,4 trimethylpentylphosphine, 22.39 di 2,4,4 trimeth ylpentylphosphine and 2.0 tri 2,4,4 trimethylpentylphosphine are recovered. The product mixture is distilled to recover the di2,4,41 trimethylpentylphosphine. The vapor temperature of the various components are as follows olefin mixture 9O0C. 510 mm Hg mono 2,4,4 trimethylpentyl phosphine 110 C. 124 mm Hg di 2,4,4 trimethyl pentylphosphine 1400C. 64.5 rim Hg 477.1 parts of di 2,4,4 trimethylpentylphosphine containing 0.27 mono and 2.44 tri 2,4,4 trimethylpentylphosphine are charged to a heated stirred resin flask under an inert atmosphere. The dialkylphosphine is heated to 60 C. 290 parts of 22.49 H202 is added with stirring over a 3 4 hour period at 60 700C. The remaining 290 parts are added over 1 hour period at 95 980C.The product separated as a clear oily layer on top of the aqueous phase. The product is decanted from the aqueous phase and is vacuumed dried overnight at 600C. A total of 520 parts are recovered. It assayed 88 di 2,4,4 trimethylpentyl phosphinic acid and had a pKa of 6.03 0.05 in 75 isopropanol. The 31p NMR chemical shift of the 2,4,41 trimethyl pentylphosphinic acid in isopropanol is 53.68 ppm with respect to 85 H3P04. The P NMR spectrum also indicated the presence of 2.0 di 2,4,41 trimethylpentylphosphine oxide, 4.0 tri 2,4,4 trimethylpentylphosphine oxide and 7 8 total of 4 different phosphonic acids or phosphonate esters. EXAMPLE 28 The following example illustrates the ability of di 2,4,4 trimethylpentylphosphinic acid to separate cobalt II from nickel II . The di 2,4,4 trimethylpentylphosphinic acid is dissolved in an aliphatic petroleum diluent Solvessot 100 modified with 5 v v isodecanol to obtain a concentration of 15 by volume, then a predetermined amount of 28 ammonium hydroxide is added to adjust the pH. An aliquot 50 mls. is shaken at 5O0C. for 10 minutes at 500C. with an equal volume of an aqueous solution containing 1.97 gpl of cobalt II and 93.6 gpl of nickel II , respectively, as sulfate salts, to extract the cobalt II into the organic phase. The aqueous phase is then separated from the organic phase and analyzed for cobalt II content. Based on the results obtained, the percent cobalt II extracted is calculated by mass balance. The percent nickel II extracted is determined by analyzing the organic phase. The results obtained are shown in Table XVI TABLE XVI Metal Extraction Co Ni Separation EquilibriumCo Ni Factor 1 pH 3.09 0 2.81 38.2 0.28 217 3.99 85.1 1.10 516 4.94 97.8 2.22 1975 5.33 100 3.10 5.52 1 Separation Factor E A Co II , where E A Ni II E A equilibrium concentration of the metal in the organic phase equilibrium concentration of the metal in the aqueous phase EXAMPLE 29 The procedure of Example 1 is followed except that a solution of 180 gpl of the di 2,4,4 trimethylpentylphosphinic acid in Varsol DX 3641 modified with 5 v v isodecanol is used. The initial sulphate solution contained 1.90 gpl Co and 103.6 gpl Ni. The A O ratio is 1.0 and the temperature is maintained at 500C. for a 10 minute contact.Test results are set forth in Table XVII. TABLE XVII Metal Extraction Co Ni Separation EquilibriumCo Ni Factor pH 3.1 0 2.63 29.5 0.89 3.62 57.6 0.99 135 4.30 83.5 1.63 305 4.89 88.5 1.93 391 5.00 91.2 2.48 407 5.12 The invention also relates to 2,4,41 trimethylpentyl, cyclohexylphosphinic acid, i.e.,EMI26.1 and a method for the production thereof which comprises free radical addition of mono 2,4,4 trimethylpentylphosphine to cyclohexene followed by the oxidation of the 2,4,4 trimethylpentyl, cyclohexylphosphine with two moles of hydrogen peroxide. The end product, either as an acid or in its salt form, finds utility as a cobalt extractant and, more specifically, as a selective extractant for cobalt 11 in aqueous cobalt II bearing solutions containing nickel it . In the preparation of this compound free radical initiators of the azobis type are preferred although others, such as the peroxides, may be used. Azobisobutrylnitrile is the most preferred. The temperature range of the reaction is directly related to the half life of the initiator employed. For azobisbutrylnitrile the temperature range should be about 400 110oC, preferably 600 to 900C. The mole ratio of olefin to mono alkylphosphine can vary from 0.1 to 10 depending on the relative rates of formation of the diand tri alkylphosphines. Preferably the range is between 0.5 to 3. In the oxidation stage, the oxidation of the dialkylphosphine to the dialkylphosphine oxide is exothermic and takes place readily at 30 100 , preferably for this first oxidation step at 500 700C. To convert the dialkylphosphine oxide to the dialkylphosphine acid, the temperature should be increased to within 500 to 1200C, preferably 800 to 1000C. Higher temperatures tend to remove one alkyl group forming some monoalkylphosphonic acid. At lower tem peratures the oxidation is rather slow and excessive reaction times may be required. Whereas the exact scope of the instant invention is set forth in the appended claims, the following specific examples illustrate certain aspects of the present invention, and, more particularly, point out methods of evaluating the same. However, the examples are set forth for illustration only and are not to be construed as limitations on the present invention except as set forth in the appended claims.All parts and percentages are by weight unless otherwise specified. EXAMPLE 30 500 parts of 09.5 mono 2,4,4 trimethylpentylphos phine is charged along with 482 parts of cyclohexene to a 1 gallon autoclave. 15 parts of azobisobutrylnitrile VAZO 64 is added and the mixture quickly heated to 600C. The temperature is then slowly raised from 60 C to 870C over a 5 1 2 hour period. The product contained 39.367c cyclohexene, 22.70 mono 2,4,4 trimethylpentylphosphine, 35.2670 2,4,4 trimethylpentyl, cyclohexylphosphine, and 0.355 2,4,4 trimethylpentyl, dicyclohexylphosphine. A further 20 parts of azobisobutrylnitrile is added to the mixture. It is heated quickly to 600C and then slowly from 600C to 890 over a 6 1 2 hour period. The product contained 34.39 cyclohexene 11.14 mono 2,4,4 trimethylpentylphosphine, 48.35 2,4,4 trimethylpentyl, cyclohexylphosphine, and 2.18 2,4,4, trimethylpentyl dicyclohexylphosphine. The product mixture is then distilled to remove the cyclohexene and mono 2,4,4 trimethylpentylphosphine. 516.9 of the residue containing 0.45 mono 2,4,4 trimethylpentylphosphine, 90.0 2,4,4 trimethylpentyl cyclohexylphosphine and 3.48 2,4,4 trimethylpentyl, dicylohexylphosphine is placed in a stirred, heated resin flask under an inertr atmosphere. The mixture is heated to 500C and 575 mL of 24 H202 is added slowly with stirring over 1 1 2 hours. During that time the temperature rose from 500C to 980C. To completely oxidize all the dialkylphosphine to the phosphinic acid, an additional 500 g of 24 H202 is added and the mixture heated for a further 5 hours at 1000C. The product is then decanted as a visious oil. It assayed 85.975 phosphinic acid but also contained 9.58 mono 2,4,4 trimethylpentylphosphonic acid. During the severe oxidation conditions, a portion of the cyclohexyl groups were removed and the resulting 2,4,4 trimethylpentylphosphine is oxidized to 2,4,4 trimethylpentylphosphonic acid. Most of the phosphonic acid is removed by scrubbing with 0.1N NaOH and water. The final product assayed 85.37 2,4,4 trimethylpentyl, cyclohexylphosphinic acid and 4.86 2,4,4 trimethylpentylphosphonic acid. The product is a viscious oil and had a pKa of 6.04 in 75 isopropanol. The 31 p NMR chemical shift in toluene is 53.13 ppm with respect to 85 H3P04 EXAMPLE 31 The following example illustrates the ability of 2,4,4 trimethylpentyl, cyclohexyl phosphinic acid to separate cobalt 11 from nickel II . The 2,4,4 trimethylpentyl, cyclohexylphosphinic acid is dissolved in an aliphatic petroleum diluent Solvessoe 100 modified with 5 v v isoderanol to obtain a concentration of 15 by volume, then a predetermined amount of 28 ammonium hydroxide is added to adjust the pH. An aliquot 50 mls is shaken at 500C. for 5 minutes at 500C with an equal volume of an aqueous solution containing 2.05 gpl of cobalt 11 and 102.4 gpl of nickel II , respectively, as sulfate salts, to extract the cobalt II into the organic phase. The aqueous phase is then separated from the organic phase and analyzed for cobalt II content. eased on the results obtained, the percent cobalt II extracted is calculated by mass balance. The percent nickel II extracted is determined by analyzing the organic phase. The results obtained are shown in Table XVIII. TABLE XVIII Metal Extraction Co Ni Separation Equilibrium Co Ni Factor pH 85.1 0.78 726 4.70 95.6 1.66 1274 5.18 98.4 3.19 1910 5.53 99.9 4.64 21030 5.80 1 Separation Factor E A Co II , where E A Ni II equilibrium concentration of EoA the metal in the organic phase equilibrium concentration of the metal in the aqueous phase