# Apparatus for taking a consecutive photograph of the periphery of an article.

## Abstract
This invention relates to an apparatus for taking a consecutive photograph of the periphery of an article consisting of a center disk on which an article is to be placed and a larger concentric disk on which a slit camera, light projector for illuminating the periphery of said article, reflector for reflecting the light from said illuminated surface into the slit camera and non reflective background are placed wherein either of said disks can rotate against the other.

## Claims
CLAIE 1. Apparatus for taking a consecutive photograph of the periphery of an article consisting of a center disk on which said article is to be placed and a larger concentric disk on which a slit camera, light projector for illuminating the periphery of the article, reflector for reflecting the light from said illuminated surface to the slit camera and non reflective background are placed wherein either of said disks can rotate relative to the other.

## Description
APPARATUS FOR TAKING A CONSECUTIVE PHOTOGRAPH OF THE PERIPHERY OF AN ARTICLE This invention lates to an apparatus for taking a consecutive photograph of the periphery of an article consisting of a center disk on which an article is to be placed and a larger concentric disk on which a slit camera, light projector for illuminating the periphery of the article, reflector for reflecting the light from the illuminated surface into the slit camera and nan reflecting background are placed wherein either of said disks can rotate against the other. One can see the whole surfaces around the article at a glance by the photograph taken by this apparatus and can fully appreciate the picture painted or engravings displayed on the surfaces. When the article is fragile such as porcelain or glass, the center disk on which such an article is to be placed should be held stationary while the concentric disk is rotating. Otherwise, if the center disk rotated with such a fragile article upon it, the risk of cracking or demolishing of the article by tumbling down during rotation would not be avoided. On the contrary, when the article is hard and sturdy such as metallic or wooden, it may be rotated by or with the center disk. In the accompanying drawings, one embodiment of the invention is shown wherein the center disk is held stationary while the concentric disk rotates. Figure 1 is a plan view and Figure 2 is a side view of the apparatus. 1 is a center disk on which a fragile article S such as porcelain or glass is mounted. 4 is a larger concentric disk on which a slit camera 14 , light projector 13 for illuminating the surface of said article, reflector 12 for reflecting the light p from the illuminated surface to the slit camera 14 as shown by y and non reflective background 11 are placed. The concentric disk 4 is provided with a tubular supporting shaft 2 rotatively suspended on the base of the framework 3 by means of ball bearings 16 . In said tubular shaft, the supporting shaft 2 of the center disk 1 is inserted and its rear end is fixed at the base of the framework 3 . In the slit camera 14 , film is fed continuously behind a slit. The velocity and direction of the film are similar to those of the concentric disk 4 . The tubular shaft 5 is driven by an electric motor 7 by means of a belt 10 engaging with a pulley 6 attached to the shaft 5 and a pulley 9 attached to the motor shaft 8 . The slit camera 14 is mounted on a universal joint 15 whereby its angle of elevation can be adjusted in accordance with the height oH of the article S . The photograph of the whole periphery of the article s can be taken by one complete rotation of the concentric disk 4 and one can appreciate the picture or engravings displayed on the whole surface of the article S at a glance. As is obvious from the drawing, by means of a reflector 12 , though the distance cb from the slit camera 14 to the article S is short, the real photographing distance, viz., s 2 , is so long that the diameter of the concentric disk 4 as well as the size of the whole apparatus can be reduced. Instead of a plane reflector 12 , convex or concave mirror, or their conibination may be employed as reflector for compensating the curvature of the surface. When the article S be hard and sturdy such as metallic or wooden, it may be placed on the rotative center disk 1 , while the concentric disk 4 is held stationary.