# Nonapeptides affecting gonadal function.

## Abstract
LRF analogs having a modified D Phe residue in the 6 position act as superagonists exhibiting potencies many times more than that of LRF. The peptides of their nontoxic salts can be administered by intravenous, subcutaneous, sublingual, oral, intravaginal, intranasal or rectal routes. The peptides can be used to regulate fertility in male and female mammals, including human beings. The peptides are represented by the following formula p Glu His Trp Ser Tyr R₁ Leu Arg Pro NH CH₂ CH₃ wherein R₁ is selected from the group consisting of chloro D Phe, dichloro D Phe, methyl D Phe, nitro D Phe, acetylamino D Phe, methyoxy D Phe and pentamethyl D Phe.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A compound having the formula p Glu His Trp Ser Tyr R1 Leu Arg Pro NH CH2 CH3, or a nontoxic salt thereof wherein R1 is chloro D Phe dichloro D Phe methyl D PIle, nitro D Phe, acetylamino D Phet methoxy D Phe or pentamethyl D Phe. 2. A compound in accordance with Claim 1 wherein R1 is 4 chloro D Phe. 3. P. compound in accordance with Claim 1 wherein R1 is 3 4 dichloro D Phe. 4. A compound in accordance with Claim 1 wherein R1 is 4 methyl D Phe. 5. A compound in accordance with Claim 1 wherein R1 is 4 nitro D Phe. 6. A compound in accordance with Claim 1 wherein R1 is 4 acetylamino D Phe 7. A compound in accordance with Claim 1 wherein R1 is 4 methoxy D Phe. 8. A compound in accordance with Claim 1 wherein R1 is pentamethyl D Phe. 9. A pharmaceutical composition comprising as an active ingredient an effective amount of a compound as defined in Claim 1 in association with a major amount of a nontoxic pharmaceutically acceptable diluent.

## Description
PEPTIDES AFFECTING GONADAL FUNCTION The present invention relates to peptides which influence the release of gonadotropins by the pituitary gland in mammalians, including humans. More particularly, the present invention is directed to peptides which when administered acutely to mammalians exhibit increased potency in releasing gonadotropins, which subsequently cause the release of the steroidal hormones, progesterone, testosterone and estrogens. The pituitary gland is attached to a stalk to the region in the base of the brain known as the hypothalamus and has two principal lobes, the anterior lobe and the posterior lobe. The posterior lobe of the pituitary gland stores and passes onto the general circulation system two hormones manufactured in the hypothalamus, i.e., vasopressin and oxytocin. The anterior lobe of the pituitary gland secretes a number of hormones, which are complex protein or glycoprotein molecules, that travel through the blood stream to various organs and which, in turn, stimulate the secretion into the blood stream of other hormones from the peripheral organs. In particular, follicle stimulating hormone FSH and luteinizing hormone LH , sometimes referred to as gonadotropins or gonadotropic hormones, are released by the pituitary gland.These hormones, in combination, regulate the functioning of the gonads to produce testosterone in the testes and progesterone and estrogen in the ovaries, and also regulate the production and maturation of gametes. The release of a hormone by the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland usually requires a prior release of another class of hormones produced by the hypothalamust. Such a hypothalamic hormone acts as a factor that triggers the release of the gonadotropic hormones, particularly luteinizing hormone LH . The particular hypothalamic hormone which acts as a releasing factor for the gonadotropins LH and FSH is referred to herein as LRF, wherein RF stands for releasing factor and L signifies that one hormone released is LH. LRF has been isolated, identified and synthesized. It has been demonstrated that some female mammalians who have no ovulatory cycle and who show no pituitary or ovarian defect begin to secrete normal amounts of the gonadotropins LH and FSH after the administration of LRF. Such administration of LRF is suitable for the treatment of those cases of infertility where the functional defect resides in the hypothalamus. Ovulation can also be induced in female mammalians by the administration of LRF however, the dosage level of LRF required to influence ovulation may sometimes be high. Recent reports have also indicated that the administration of large and frequent dosages ofLRF actually inhibit gonadal function in female and male rats by desensitization of the pituitary and gonads and subsequent disruption of the hormonal network.For this reason, LRF and analogs of LRF which are more potent than LRF to promote release of LH have been investigated for potential use as a contraceptive. The principal disadvantage to the use of these peptides as a potential contraceptive is, of course, the requirement for large and frequent dosages. It would be desirable to provide peptides which are many times more potent than LRF in promoting the secretion of LH. Accordingly, it is a principal object of the present invention to provide peptides which exhibit a very high potency to cause the release of gonadotropins in mammalians, including humans. Another object of the present invention is to provide such potent peptides which influence the release of steroids by the gonads of male and female mammalians, including humans, and which have properties which favorably affect their administration. A further object of the present invention is to provide peptides which have a more potent effect than LRF on the reproduction processes of mammalians, including humans. These and other objects of the present invention will become more apparent from the following detailed description. Generally, in accordance with the present invention, LRF agonists have been synthesized which have an enhanced potency to cause the secretion of gonadotropins by the pituitary gland of mammalians, including humans, and which peptides also can cause inhibition of the reproductive functions in both males and females, such as delay of puberty, interruption of pregnancy, decrease in sexual organ weights and steroid production, and disrupted spermogenesis. The peptides of the present invention are characterized by the substitution of modified D Phe in the 6 position of LRF or an LRF analog. LRF has been characterized as a decapeptide having the following structure p Glu His Trp Ser Tyr Gly Leu Arg Pro Gly NH2 Peptides are compounds which contain two or more amino acids in which the carboxyl group of one acid is linked to the amino group of the other acid. The formula for LRF, as represented above, is in accordance with conventional representation of peptides where the amino group appears to the left and the carboxyl group to the right. The position of the amino groups is identified by numbering the amino groups from left to right. In the case of LRF, the hydroxyl portion of the carboxyl group at the right hand end has been replaced with an amino group NH2 , to give an amide function.The abbreviations for the individual amino acid groups above are conventional and are based on the trivial name of the amino acid where p Glu is pyroglutamic acid, His is histidine, Trp is tryptophan, Ser is serine, Tyr is tyrosine, Gly is glycine, Leu is leucine, Arg is arginine and Pro is proline. Except for glycine, amino acid residues in the peptides of the invention should be understood to be of the L configuration unless noted otherwise. It is known that the substitution of a D amino acid for example D Trp for Gly in the 6 position of the LRF decapeptide provides a peptide material having from about 10 to 30 times greater potency than does LRF to effect the release of luteinizing hormone and other gonadotropins by the pituitary gland of mammalians. The releasing effect is obtained ashen the substituted peptide is introduced into the blood stream of a mammalian. The desired peptides are not significantly different in their hydrophilicity from LRF, whereas. other potent LRF analogs are significantly less hydrophilic, and this will provide opportunities for administration in various ways including those most suitable for peptides having a longer duration of effect. In accordance with the present invention, peptides have been synthesized which are highly potent to release gonadotropins and are represented by the following formula p Glu His Trp Ser Typ R Leu Arg Pro NH CH2 CH3 wherein R1 is selected from the group consisting of chloro D Phe, dichloro D Phe, methyl D Phe, nitro D Phe, acetylamino D Phe, methyoxy D Phe and pentamethyl D Phe. The peptides of the present invention having modified D Phe in the 6 position and the ethylamide modification have greatly enhanced potency compared to other known LRF analogs which have been reported earlier, for example in U.S. Patents Nos. 3,896,104, 3,972,859 and 4,034,082. The enhanced potency of theseLRF agonists renders them of significant value in treating both male and female infertility and also in the inhibition of reproductive functions in both males and females as a result of long term administration. The peptides of the present invention are synthesized by a solid phase technique. The synthesis is preferably conducted in a stepwise manner on a chloromethylated resin. The resin is composed of fine beads 20 70 microns in diameter of a synthetic resin prepared by copolymerization of styrene with 1 to 2 percent divinylbenzene. For a chloromethylated resin, the benzene rings in the resin are chloromethylated in aFriedel Crafts reaction with chloromethyl ether and stannic chloride, and the chlorine introduced is a reactive benzyl chloride. The Friedel Crafts reaction is continued until the resin contains 0.5 and 2 millimoles of chlorine per gram of resin. The reagents used are hereinbelow first listed by their chemical name and their common abbreviation. A peptide may be prepared, for example, by esterifying the triethylammonium salt of a amino protected Pro onto the chloromethylated resin by refluxing in ethanol for about 48 hours. Also possible is the use of amino protected Pro, potassium or cesium salts in dimethylformamide DMF or in dimethylsulfoxide DMS , at temperatures ranging from 40 to 800C.Further possible is the use of the a amino protected Pro dissolved in DMF in combination with the chloromethylated resin in the presence of KF. After deprotection of the a amino N terminus and neutralization, the stepwise addition of N proMected amino acids is effected as generally taught in Monahan, et al. Biochemistry 1963 Volume 12, P. 4616 4620. The coupling reaction throughout the synthesis is monitored by a ninhydrin test, as reported by Kaiser et al. Anal. Biochem. 34 1970 595. Deblocking is effected by a 20 minute treatment in TFA containing 5 percent 1,2 ethanedithiol, followed by neutralization with triethylamine Et3.N in DMF or methylene chloride. Numerous washes with MeOH and CH2C12 follow each step. The indivdual amino aid residues are added sequentially to complete the peptide chain. TheN a groups may be protected by t butoxycarbonyl BOC , and the side chain of Arg may be protected with p toluenesulfonyl Tos . Benzyl ester OBzl may be used as a side chain protecting group for Ser and Tyr.2 6 dichlorobenzyl may be used as the side chain protecting group for Tyr and Tos, dinitrophenyl Dnp or BOC can be used as the side chain protecting group for His. pGlu may be introduced, for example, as benzyloxycarbonyl Z protected amino acid or without any protection. Such a method provides the fully protected peptidoresin, and the fully protected peptide is removed from the resin support in a suitable manner, e.g., using ammonia or by aminolysis employing to yield a fully protected alkyl amide intermediate. As one example, cleavage of the peptide from the resin may be performed by stirring the peptidoresin ...Pro O CH2 resin overnight in distilled ethylamine at OOC. in a pressure bottle. After removal of excess ethylamine by distillation under nitrogen or vacuum, the resin, suspended in methanol, is removed from the slurry by filtration. The resin is further washed successively with dimethylformamide DMF , methanol, and a mixture ofDMF and methanol. The recovered solution of cleaved, protected peptide is evaporated to dryness on a rotary vacuum evaporator at room temperature.The peptide is taken in a minimum amount of methanol to dissolve the peptide. The solution is added dropwise with stirring to a 200 times volume excess of dry ether. A flocculent precipitate appears which is recovered by filtration or centrifugation. The recovered precipitate is dried to provide the intermediate which is considered part of the invention. The intermediates of the invention may be represented as X1 p Glu His X2 Trp Ser X3 Tyr X4 R Leu Arg X5 Pro X6 wherein X1 is either hydrogen or an a amino protecting group of the type known to be useful in the art in the stepwise synthesis of polypeptides.Among the classes of a amino protecting groups covered by X1 are 1 acyl type protecting groups, such as formyl, trifluoroacetyl, phthalyl, Tos, benzensulfonyl, nitrophenylsulfenyl, tritylsulfenyl, o nitrophenoxyacetyl, chloroacetyl, acetyl and a chlorobutyryl 2 aromatic urethan type protecting groups, e.g., benzyloxycarbonyl and substituted benzyloxycarbonyl, such as p chlorobenzyloxycarbonyl, p nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl, p bromobenzyloxycarbonyl and p methoxybenzyloxcarbonyl 3 aliphatic urethan protecting groups, such as BOC, diisopropylmethoxycarbonyl, isopropyloxycarbonyl, ethoxycarbonyl and allyloxycarbonyl 4 cycloalkyl urethan type protecting groups, such as cyclopentyloxycarbonyl, adamantyloxycarbonyl and cyclohexyloxycarbonyl 5 thiourethan type protecting groups, such as phenylthiocarbonyl 6 alkyl type protecting groups, such as triphenylmethyl trityl and benzyl 7 trialkylsilane groups, such as trimethylsilane. The preferred a amino protecting group is BOC. x2 is a protecting group for the imidazole nitrogen atom selected from the group consisting of Tos, benzyl, trityl, 2,2,2 trifluoro l benzyloxycarbonylaminoethyl, 2,2,2, trifluoro l tert butyloxycarbonylaminoethyl and 2, 4 dinitrothiophenyl. X3 is a protecting group for the alcoholic hydroxyl group of Ser and is selected from the group consisting of acetyl, benzoyl, tetrahydropyranyl, tertbutyl, trityl, benzyl and 2,6 dichlorobenzyl and preferably is benzyl. X is a protecting group for the phenolic hydroxyl group of Tyr selected from the group consisting of tetrahydropyranyl, tert butyl, trityl, benzyl, benzyloxycarbonyl, 4 bromobenzyloxycarbonyl and 2,6 dichlorobenzyl. X5 is a protecting group for the nitrogen atoms of Arg and is selected from the group consisting of nitro, Tos, benzyloxycarbonyl, adamantyloxycarbonyl and BOC or is hydrogen which means there are no protecting groups on the side chain nitrogen atoms of arginine. X6is selected from ethylamine, and O CH2 lresin support3. When the x6 group is O CH2 tresin support, what is represented is the ester moiety of one of the many functional groups of the polystyrene resin support. The criteria for selecting side chain 25 protecting groups for X2 X5 are that the protecting group must be stable to the reagent under the reaction conditions selected for removing the a amino protecting group at each step of the synthesis, the protecting group must not be split off under coupling conditions and the protecting group must be removable upon completion of the synthesis of the desired amino acid sequence under reaction conditions that will not alter the peptide chain. Deprotection of the peptides may take place at 0 C. with hydrofluoric acid HF or other suitable reagent. Anisole or some other appropriate scavenger, e.g., methyl anisole or thioanisole, is preferably added to the peptide prior to treatment with HF. After the removal of HF, under vacuum, the deprotected peptide is treated with ether, filtered, extracted in dilute acetic acid, separated from the resin by filtration and lyophilized. Purification of the peptide may be effected by ion exchange chromatography on a carboxyl methyl cellulose CMC column1 followed by partition chromatography on a gel filtration column using the elution system n butanol acetic acid water 4 1 5 volume ratio . Sephadex G 25 may be the partition chromatography column packing, and other cation exchange, such as CM Sephadex or counter current distribution, can also be used for the purification. The peptides are used at a level effective to promote ovulation in female mammals and can also be used for other pharmaceutical purposes for which LRF has heretofore been employed. Because the potency of the peptides of the invention is about 30 to 150 times that of LRF see Table IV, hereinafter the dosage may be determined for each application on the basis of such a ratio, taking other factors such as the subject of administration into consideration. For example, a suitable dosage may be within the range of about 5 ng. nanograms to 10p9. daily, per kilogram of body weight. The peptide can be administered to mammals intravenously, subcutaneously, intramuscularly, intranasally, vaginally, orally or sublingually. The effective dosage will vary with the form of administration and the particular species of mammal to be treated. Oral administration may be in either solid or liquid form. The peptide may also be prepared and administered in the form of a pharmaceutically acceptable nontoxic salt, such as an acid addition salt, or an appropriate metal complex, e.g., with zinc, iron or the like. Illustrative of pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic salts of peptides are hydrochloride, hydrobromide, sulfate, phosphate, maleate, acetate, citrate, benzoate, succinate, malate, ascorbate, and the like. The following Examples further illustrate various features of the invention but are intended to in no way limit the scope of the invention which is defined in the appended claims EXAMPLE I pNO2 D Phe6, Pro9 NEti aRF having the following formula is prepared by the solid phase synthesis p Glu His Trp Ser Tyr pNO2 D Phe Leu Arg Pro NH CH2 CH3 A chloromethylated resin prepared by the copolymerization of styrene with about 1 divinylbenzee is used, and the triethylammonium salt of BOC protectedPro is esterified onto the resin hy refluxing in ethanol for about 48 hours. Following the coupling of each amino acid residue, washing, deblocking and coupling of the next amino acid residue is carried out in accordance with the following schedule using an auotmated machine and beginning with about 5 grams of resin Mix Times Step Reagents and Operations Min. 1 CH2C12 wash 80 ml 2 times 3 2 Methanol MeOH wash 30 ml 2 times 3 3 CH2C12 wash 80 ml 3 times 3 4 50 percent trifluoroacetic acid TFA plus 5 percent 1,2 ethanedithiol in CH2C1270 ml 2 times 10 5 CH2C12 wash 80 ml 2 times 3 6 Triethylamine Et3N 12.5 percent in 70 ml of CH2C12 2 times 5 7 MeOH wash 40 ml 2 times 2 8 CH2C12 wash 80 ml 3 times 3 9 BOC amino acid 10 mmoles in 30 ml. of either DMF or CH2C12, depending upon the solubility of the particular protected amino acid, 1 time plus dicyclohexylcarbodiimide DCC 10 mmoles in CH2C12 30 300 10 MeOH wash 40 ml 2 times 3 11 Et3N 12.5 percent in CH2C12 70 ml 1 time 3 12 MeOH wash 30 ml 2 times 3 13 CH2C12 wash 80 ml 2 times 3 After step 13, an aliquot is taken for a ninhydrin test if the test is negative, go back to step 1 for coupling of the next amino acid if the test is positive or slightly positive, go back and repeat steps 9 through 13. The above schedule is used for coupling of each of the amino acids of the peptide of the invention after the first amino acid has been attached. N a BOC protection is used for each of the remaining amino acids throughout the synthesis until pGlu is reached. The side chain of Arg is protected with Tos. OBzl is used as a side chain protecting group for the hydroxyl group of Ser, and 2,6 dichlorobenzyl is used as the side chain protecting group for the hydroxyl group of Tyr.p toluenesulfonyl Tos is used as the side chain protecting group for His at the 2 position. pGlu is introduced as the benzyloxycarbonyl Z protected amino acid or as plain pGlu. The following amino acids1 which have low solubility in CH2C12, are coupled usingDMF BOC Arg Tos BOC Trp and Z pGlu or pGlu. The fully protected peptide is removed from the resin support by aminolysis employing ethylamine to yield the fully protected alkyl amide intermediate.Cleavage of the peptide is performed by stirring the resin overnight in distilled ethylamine at OOC. in a pressure bottle. After removal of excess ethylamine by distillation under vacuum, the resin, suspended in methanol, is removed from the slurry by filtration. The resin is further washed successively with DMF, methanol, and a mixture of DMF and methanol. The recovered solution of cleaved, protected peptide is evaporated to dryness on a rotary vacuum evaporator at room temperature. Using a minimum amount of methanol to dissolve the peptide, the solution is added dropwise to a 250 times volume excess of dry ether with stirring. A flocculent precipitate appears and is recovered by centrifugation. The recovered precipitate is dried to provide the intermediate, which is then completely deprotected using llF at OOC adding anisole as a scavenger. HF is removed under vacuum, the resin is extracted and the washing lyophilized to provide a crude peptide powder. Purification of the peptide is effected by ion exchange chromatography on a CMC column, followed by partition chromatography using the elution system n butanol acetic acid water 4 1 5 volume ratio .The partition chromatography column is Sephadex G 25. pNO2 D Phe6,Pro9NEt LRF is judged to be homogeneous using thin layer chromatography and several different solvent systems, as well as by using reversed phase high pressure liquid chromatography and an aqueous triethyammonium phosphate solution plus acetonitrile.Amino acid analysis of the resultant, purified peptide is consistent with the formula for the prepared structure, showing substantially integer values for each amino acid in the chain. The optical rotation is 22 measured on a photoelectric polarimeter 1D 47.20 c l, 1 acetic acid . Using the solid phase procedure set forth above, peptides Nos. 2 7 are prepared as indicated inTable I herein after having the formula pGlu His Trp Ser Tyr R1 Leu Arg Pro NHCH2 CH3 TABLE IPeptide R1 1 4 NO2 D Phe 2 4 OCH3 D Phe 3 4 CH3 D Phe 4 4 Cl D Phe 5 3,4 Cl2 D Phe 6 4 AcNH D Phe 7 penta CH3 D Phe EXAMPLE II The peptides prepared in the foregoing ExampleI are assayed in vitro using a four day old primary culture of dispersed rat pituitary cells and compared with LRF. The levels of LH secreted over a 4 hour period in response to the application of peptides are assayed by specific radioimmunoassay forrrat LH.The results of testing are expressed in the tables herebelow TABLE II Ptide No. 7 TREATMENT NANOGRATS OF LH SECRETED ml. 4 hr. Control 627 0.3 nM LRF 898 1.0 nM LRF 1240 3.0 nM LRF 1702 0.003 nM Pep. No. 1 698 0.01 nM Pep. No. 1 908 0.03 nM Pep. No. 1 2063 The treatment procedure is repeated usingPeptide No. 2 and the results set forth in Table III are obtained TABLE III Peptide No. 2 TREATMENT NANOGRAMS OF LH SECRETED ml. 4 hrs. Control 627 0.3 nM LRF 898 1.0 nM LRF 1240 3.0 nM LRF 1702 0.01 nM Pep. No. 2 1467 0.03 nM Pep. No. 2 1723 Peptide No. 7 has a relative potency, compared to LRF, of 86 50 145 the confidence limits being shown in the parentheses. For Peptide No. 2, the relative potency is 130 72 242 . Based upon these tests, it can be seen that OCH3 D Phe6, 9Pro NEt LRF has a potency about 130 times that of LRF and that pentamethyl D Phe6, Pro9 NEt LRF has a potency of more than 85 times that of LRF. In vitro assays are similarly carried out with respect to Peptides Nos. 1, and 3 6 and the results are set forth in Table IV TABLE IV Peptide No. Potency relative toLRF 1 141 83 297 3 143 79 268 4 59 29 120 5 38 16 82 6 36 21 69 The effectiveness of the peptide compositions prepared in Examples I is also tested in vivo, and the relative agonistic potencies of peptides determined in the in vitro assays reported above correlate well with the potencies obtained from in vivo tests. Comparison of the results shows that all of the peptide compositions are very significantly more potent than LRF when tested in vivo. Based upon the foregoing, the peptides of the invention can be used to regulate fertility in male and female animals and human beings. High, frequent administrations of these peptides will inhibit fertility by blocking ovulation, including premature luteolysis and terminating pregnancy in females and in inhibiting spermatogenesis in males. Lower, intermittent administrations can restore fertility in those infertile states caused by LRF deficiency and can also allow timing of ovulation in normal females. The peptides can also be employed to reduce levels of sex steroids, and thus they can be used in the management of subjects with sex hormone dependent neoplasms, precocious puberty, endometriosis or dysmenorrhea. As earlier mentioned, the peptides can be administered by intravenous, subcutaneous, subligual, oral, intravaginal, intranasal or rectal routes. Although the invention has been described with regard to its preferred embodiments, it should be understood that changes and modifications as would be obvious to one having the ordinary skill in this art may be made without departing from the scope of the invention which is set forth in the claims which are appended hereto. For example, other short chain alkyl amides or substituted alkyl amides might be substituted for ethylamide. Various features of the invention are emphasized in the claims which follow.