# A process for polymerizing alpha mono olefins.

## Abstract
Catalysts suitable for alpha olefinic polymerisation comprise a a Group IVA to VIII transition metal halide e.g. TiCl4 b a compound of the formula TnMR min 3 n where n 1 or 2, T is R3DCH2, D being Si, Ge or Sn, M is Al, Ga or ln, R is Me or Et and R min is C1 C8 primary alkyl, aralkyl or H e.g. Me3SiCH2 2AlEt and c a Lewis base e.g. ethyl benzoate .

## Claims
WHAT WE CLAIM IS 1. A catalyst composition which comprises a mixture of a Group IVA to VIII transition mea halide b at least one metal alkyl cocatalyst having the formula T 3 n wherein n 1 or 2, T is R3DCH2, D being Si, Ge or Sn nnd M being Al,Ga or In, R is a utethyl or ethyl group and R is a C1 C8 primary alkyl group, an alkyl group including unhindered brauched groups or hydrogen and c at least one Lewis base. 2. A composition according to claim I wherein M is aluminum. 3. A composition according to either of claim 1 and 2 wherein D is Si. 4. A composition according to any one of the preceding claims wherein ths halide of the transition metal halide is chloride, bromide or a mixture thereof. 5. A composition accqrding to any one of the preceding claims wherein the transition metal halide is a halide of trivalent titanium, ttivalent vanadium or tetravalent titanium. 6. A composition according to any one of the preceding claims wherein said transition metal halide is supported on a support. 7. A composition according two claim 6 wherein said support is MgCl2. 8. A composition according to any one of the preceding claims wherein said Lewis base is an amine, ester, phosphine, phosphine oxide, phosphate or ether. 9. A composition according to claim 8 wherein said Lewis base is ethyl benzoate. 10. A composition according to any one of the preceding claims wherein said alkyl metal cocatalyst is Me3SiCH2AlEt2, Me3SiCH2 2AlEt, Me3SiCH2 2Aln or Me3SiCH2AlEt Octyl . 11. A composition according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the molar ratio of said alkyl metal cocatalyst to the transition metal is about 0.5 1 to about 50 .. 12. A process for the polymerization of a C2 to C20 olefin monome or a mixture thereof to solid homo , co , or terpolymers by contacting olefin monomer with a catalyst composition according to any one of the preceding claims.

## Description
It is well know in the art to use an alkyl metal compound of Groups I III in combination with a transition metal compound of Groupe IVA VIII as a catalyst system for olefinic polymerization. While nearyl all of the alkyl metal compounds are effective for tke polymerisation of ethylene, only a few are effective for the preparation of isotactic polymerd of propalene and higher alphy olafins and only Et2AlCI and AlEt3 have any important commercial utility. A major cost involved in the polymerization of the alpha olefins is the cost of the catalyst components. Therefore, the cost of the manufacture of the polymer can be effectively reduced by the use cf catalyst systems having a higher polymerization activity. A further coticern he ability to produce polymers having a minimum amount of catalyst residues thereby eliminating a costly deashing operation. A still further concern is the ability to produce polymers having a high degree of isotactic stereoregularity thereby enabling the manufacturer to eliminate the costly operation involving the removal and separation of atactic polymer from the isotactic polymer. The improved catalyst system of the prescnt invention provides a means for the manufacturer to obtain these desirable realizations. The catalyst system of the present invention which can be employed i alpha olefin polymerizations comprises a Group IVA VIII transition metal compound, at least one Lewis base and a metal comp und having the formulaTnMR 3 n wherein T is R3DCH2, D being Si, Ge or Sn, preferably Si, R is methy or ethy , preferably methyl, M is aluminum, gallium or indium, preferably Al and R is a C1 C8 primary alkyl group, an alkyl group or hydrogen, for example ethyl, octyl, benzyl, isobutyl, but is preferably C2 C4 primary alkyl or hydrogen, and n is 1 or 2. The transition metal catalyst compound is a Group IVA VIII transitir metal halide, wherein the halide group may be chloride or bromide and the transition metal halide can be in the form of sold crystalline compounds, solid solutions or compositions with other metal salts or supported on the surface of a wide range of solid supports. For highest stereospecificity it is desirable to have the transition metal halide, or its support composition in the layer lattice structure with very small crystallites, high surface area, or sufficient defects or foreign components to facilitate high dispers during polymerization. The transition metal halide may also contain various additives such as Lewis bases, pi bases, polymers, or organic or inorganic modifiers.Vanadium and titanium halides such as VCl3, VBr3, TiCl3, TiCl4,TiBr3 or TiBr4 are preferred, most preferably TiCl3 or TiCl4 and mixtures thereof. The most preferred TiC13 compounds are those which contain TiCl4 edge sites on the layer lattice support such as alpha, delta, 0 gamme TiCl3 or various structures ans modifications of Ticl3 or MgCl2. The most preferred TiCl4 compounds are those supported on chloride layer lattice compounds such as MgCl2. Minor amounts of other anions may also be resent as a substitute for chloride, such as other halides, pseudn hatides, alkoxides, hydroxides, oxides or carboxylates. Mixed salts or double salts such as K2TiCl6 or MgTiCl6 can be employed alone or in combination with electron donor compounds.Other supports besides MgCl2 which are useful are hydroxychicrides, oxides or other inarganic or organic supports. The most preferred transition metal compound is the transition metal halide TiC14 on an MgCl2 support. The Lewis bases are employed in the combination with the tri or alkyl metal organo compound of Al, Ga or In, and the Group IVA VII transition metal halide as long as they do not cause excessive cleavage of metal carbon bonds, or loss of active sites. Suitable Lewis bases include tertiary amines, esters, phosphines , phosphine oxides, phosphates alkyl, aryl , phosphites, hexaalkyl phosphoric trianides, dimethyl sulfoxide, dimethyl formamide, secondary amines, dialkyl ethers, epoxides, saturated and unsaturated heterocycles, or cyclic ethers and mixtures thereof.Typical but non limiting examples are ethyl benzoate, diethyl ether or tetrahydrofuran. The most preferred is ethylbenzoate. Magnesium salts may aiso be employed with the present catalysts if they are partially or wholly solubilized by reaction with the alkyl metal component. Non limiting exampples include MgBr2, ClMgOR , R OMgOOCR ,Mg OR 2, and the like, where R is the same or different C1 to C10 alkyl. The alkyl metal cocatalysts of the invention have the general formula T MRr wherein n I or 2, T is R3DCH2, D being Si, Ge or Sn, preferably n 3 n Si, R being methyl or ethyl, preferably methyl, N is aluminum, gallium or indium and r ic C1 C8 primary alkyl or aralkyl including unhindered branched groups such as ethyl, octy , benzyl, isobutyl, or hydrogen, preferably C2 Cz primary alkyl or H. Especially suitable cocatalysts are Me3SiCH2AlEt2, Me3SiCH2 2AlEt, Me3SiCH2 2Aln Bu or Me3SiAl CH2Et Octyl wherein Me3SiCH2 2AlEt is preferred. The inust prefer. ed compounds have the formula T2A1R . For use with the alkyl metal cocatalysts of this invention, the most preferred transition metal compounds contain TiC14 supported on MgCl2 and one or more Lewis bases. The molar ratio of the alkyl metal cocatalyst to the transition metal compound is 0.5 1 to 50 1, more preferably 1 1 to 20 1, and most preferably 5 1 to 10 1. The number of moles of Lewis base to organometal compound can vary widely but is preferably 0.1 1 to 1 1. The catalyst system of the invention enabies the process for making alpha olefin polymers having a high degree of isotactic stereoregelarity to be carried out at a tempera ture of 25 to 150 C., more preferably 40 to about 80 C., at pressures of 1 atm. to 50 atm. The reaction tine for polymerisation is about 0.1 to 10 hours, more preferably 0.5 to 3 hours. Due to the high catalyst activity, shorter times and temperatures below 80 C. can be readily employed. The reaction solvent for the system can be any inert paraffinic, naphthenic or aromatic hydrocarbon such as benzene, toluene, xyr xylene, propane, base, pentane, hexane, heptane, cyclohexane, and mixtures thereof. P re ferably, excess liquid monome. is used as solvent. Gas phase polymerizations may also be carried out with or with out minor amounts of solvent. Typical, but non limiting examples of C2 C20 alpha olefinic monomers employed in the present invention for the manufacture of homo , co and terpolymers are ethylene, propylene, butene l, pentene 1, he e l, oct2 decene 1, 3 methylbutene 1, styrene, vinylidene norbornene, 1,5 hexadiene and the like and mixtures thereof. Isotactic polymerization of propylene and higher olefins is especially preferred. The alkyl metal cocatalyst and the transition metal compound in combination with the Lewis base can be added separately to the eactor but are preferably premixed before addition to the reactor. Employing non hindered alkyl metal compounds with the transition metal compound does not provide the improved catalyst efficiency and stereospecificity as envisioned in this application. The concentration of the transition metal based on solvent in the reaction zone is 0.001 to 5mM, preferably less then 0.1mM. The advantages of the unique and novel catalyst system and the novel process for the alpha olefin polymeri zations of the present invention can be more readily appreciated by reference to the following Example and table.EXAMPLE A sample of Me3SiCH2 2AlEt was prepared by reacting 2 moles of Me3SiCH2Li with, mole or AXEtC 2, treating the product with dry powdered KCl to remove unreacted chloroaluminium compounds and vacum f fractionating the liquid phase. One of the distillation cuts 35 wt. in deuterobenzene plusC6H6 gave the correct NMR spectrum for the desire product C CH3 1.17 ppm SiCH3 0.16 ppm SiCH2 0.41 ppm calculated fron benzene reference . Me3SiCH2AlEt2 was made by mixing equimolar amounts of Me3SiCH2 2AlEt and AlEt3. The above alkyl aluminum compounds were used as cocatalysts with a catalyst prepared by reacting anhydrous MgC12 5 moles with TiCl4 C6H5COOEt l mole in a ball mill 4 days, followed by a neat TiCl4 treat at 80 C., 2 hours hgptane washes and vacuum drying, The catalyst contained 3.44 Ti. Using 1 mmole cocatalyst and 0.2g catalyst in 590 ml. n heptane, propylene was polymerized at 65 C., 1 hour at 765 770 m. The results are compared in Table I with those obtained using the conventional AlEt3 cocatalyst. TABLE I Rate Run Al Alkyl g g Cat hr HIa I.V.b A AlEt3 244 83.1 2.25 B Me3SiCH2AlEt2 182 90.8 3.00 C Me3SiCH2 2AlEt 140 92.9 3.30 a Percent insoluble in boiling n heptane. b Inherent viscosity determined at 0.5g polymer per liter decahydronaphthalene at 135 C. The polypropylene isotacticity increased subs tar tially when ethyl groups were replaced by trimethylsilyl methyl groups. In Run C,z the rate was about sever times that of the commercial Et2AlCl TiCl3 1 3AlCl3 catalyst at the same heptane insoubles. Since many modifications and variations of this invention may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention thereof it is not intended to limit the spirit or scope thereof to the specific examples thereof