# IMPROVED COAL FIRED, STEAM DRIVEN LOCOMOTIVE

## Abstract
A coal fired steam locomotive powered by recipro cating steam engines. The locomotive is a two unit drawbar coupled locomotive. The units, which are de signated as a power unit and a support unit, are ar ranged back to back, with each having a cab in front. Operation of the locomotive is equally effective in both directions. The power unit basically contains a furnace and system, an ash storage system, a gas cleanup and exhaust system, a boiler and steam gene rator steam engines, a jet condenser, and a control cab. The support unit, on two 6 wheel trucks, contains a modular coal storage area, a stroker motor, a water storage area, heat transfer assemblies and fans for air cooling circulating water, and a second control cab. The coal gasification furnace, steam boiler, and steam engines are all in a closed system. Further, the steam engines of the locomotive are in the form of a four cylinder, balanced system for driving the running gear of the locomotive. The steam expansion cycle is com pounded, two high pressure cylinders exhaust into low pressure cylinders, with all cylinders sized for equal thrust. Spent steam is condensed, cooled on board, and the water recycled through the boiler. A condensing cycle is utilized to both obtain more power and minimize water make up. A large water supply is carried on the support unit to minimize way side water points. Con densing of the water is by jet condensing which takes place on the power unit and utilizes feedwater as the jet condensing means. The heated water is pumped through a heat exchanger provided on the support unit before returning to the water supply tank. In order to eliminate nuisance dirt, coal is prepackaged in large modules. Up to three modules are placed over the stoker screw mechanism contained on the support unit.