# Containers.

## Abstract
Container comprising a bag net 1 along which there are arranged two flexible laminar bands 2, 3 which are laterally opposed, reinforcing the whole and susceptible of admitting graphical impression, being these bands superposed and united by their ends 4, 5 as well as to the bag and separated from the latter along the remaining zones, said bands being provided in their upper ends with at least one opening 7 defin ing a handle.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An improved container essentially characterized by comprising a bag net 1 along which there are arranged two flexible laminar bands 2,3 which are laterally opposed, reinforcing the whole and susceptible of admitting graphical impression, being these bands superposed and united by their ends 4,5 as well as to the bag and separated from the latter along the remaining zones, said bands being provided in their upper ends with at least one opening 7 defining a handle.

## Description
Containers The present patent of invention relates to an improved container or package, specially imagined and manufactured for putting g fruits and various garden products. It is already well known that the packages for containing the cited products, for instance packages like a bag consisting of a tubular net with clamped ends are not very strong, so that such nets can only contain a small quantity of said products. Manufacture of conventional bags forming packages, comprising a handle, is quite expensive, as such handle is to be added during the manufacturing process. As usual bags comprising a handle are not very flexible, they do not properly fit into the useful spaces of transportation, such as boxes, cases, and so on. Besides, containers such as the traditional bags do not present a suitable surface to reserve an imprint or graphic representation, so that it is necessary to provide said containers with a label or alike with the consequent disadvantages of tearing, deterioration, difficulty of identification, etc. The improved container now available according to the present invention has satisfactorily solved all these problems, and is essentially characterized by the fact of comprising a network, along which there have been provided two flexible laminar bands or strips which are laterally opposed and reinforce the whole, while being susceptible of receiving graphical impressions, these bands being superposed and united by their ends and to the bag net while being separated from the latter along the remaining zones, said bands comprising at least one opening serving as handle in their upper ends. The features and advantages of the present invention will be more fully appreciated by reference t6 the following detailed description of a presently preferred embodiment, when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, wherein Fig. 1 is a perspective view of the container, Fig. 2 illustrates the proper container in a vertical section, Referring to the figures the improved container consists of a bag net, designated 1 , made of a suitable material, specially a thermoweldable plastic material.This bag net comprises on two lateral opposed zones the laminar bands 2 and 3 of a flexible material, superposed between them and joined to the bag 1 by their ends, being united by lines of plic thermowelding 4 and 5 and fixed to the bag 1 , from which said bands 2 and 3 remain separate or loose along the remaining zones. On the extreme upper uniting zone between the bands 2 and 3 and the bag 1 and once the bag filled up with the corresponding products 6, there are provided by extrustion some openings 7, defining a handle for manual transportation. It is most interesting to state that this bag or container is being formed in proportion of the goods being filled up, with the consequent substantial industrial saving with respect to the already known containers. The referred bag is extremely flexible and mouldable to any place for transportation, being at the same time very strong due to the bands 2 and 3, and taking up a higher load than tie conventional containers existing presently on the market. Besides, these bands 2 and 3, specially suitable to receive any type of literature and graphical impressions, as it may be appreciated fromFig. 1, facilitate commercialisation of the packaged product. The union between the bands 2 and 3 and to the bag net 1 can also be made by means of other processes, differing from the stated thermowelding, such as adhesion, sewing, and the like. It should also be stated tht the orifices 7 for holding the bag and acting as handle can be replaced by only one opening with the same purpose. The described container, besides the described advantages of a greater resistance, higher adaptability to useful spaces for transportation, cheaper manufacturing, bigger capacity and the like allows for a complete ventilation of fruits or alike, favouring preservation, the goods being moreover quite will displayed. Although a particular preferred embodiment of the present invention has been disclosed in detail for illustration purposes, it will be recognized that variations or modifications of the disclosed bag, including the configuration, sizes, materials, and the like remain within the scope of the present invention.