# Triazole compounds, a process for preparing them, their use as plant fungicides and plant growth regulators and compositions containing them.

## Abstract
Compounds of formula CHEM and stereoisomers thereof, wherein R 1 is alkyl, cycloalkyl or optionally substituted phenyl and R 2 is phenyl or benzyl, each optionally substituted and their acid addition salts, ethers, esters and metal complexes have fungicidal and plant growth regulating activity.

## Claims
1. A method of regulating plant growth which comprises applying to a plant, to seed of a plant, or to the locus of the plant or seed a compound of general formula I EMI74.1 wherein R1 is C16 alkyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopropyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl or phenyl, and R2 is phenyl or benzyl the phenyl of R1 and the phenyl or phenyl moiety of the benzyl of R2 being optionally substituted with halogen, C1 6 alkyl, C1 5 alkoxy, 10 alkoxyalkyl, halo C1 4 alkyl, halo C1 4 alkoxy, halo C15 alkoxy halo C1 5 alkyl, nitro, phenyl, phenoxy, benzyl, optionally halo substituted benzyloxy, C1 2 alkylenedioxy, acetylamino, halo C12 alkylenedioxy, amino, mono or di C1 4 alkylamino, hydroxy, cyano, morpholino or carboxy or an alkyl ester thereof, and or the alkyl moiety of the benzyl is optionally substituted with one C14 alkyl or an acid addition salt, ether, ester or metal complexes thereof. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein R1 is C1 4 alkyl and R2 is optionally substituted benzyl. 3. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein R1 is optionally substituted phenyl and R2 is optionally substituted benzyl. 4. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein each of R1 and R2, which may be the same or different, is optionally substituted phenyl. 5. A method as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 5 wherein R1 is C1 4 alkyl and R2 is optionally substituted phenyl. 6. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein R1 is butyl. 7. A method as claimed in claim 6 wherein R1 is t butyl. 8. A method according to claim 4 wherein R1 and R2 are both halophenyl. 9. A method according to claim 8 wherein R1 and R2, which may be the same or different, are each chlorophenyl or fluorophenyl. 10. A method according to claim 8 or 9 wherein at least one phenyl ring also bears one or more alkoxy groups. 11. A method according to claim 5 wherein R1 is alkyl and R2 is halophenyl. 12. A method according to claim 11 wherein R1 is n butyl or t butyl and R2 is p chlorophenyl. 13. A method according to claim 10 wherein R1 is 2 chloro 4 methoxyphenyl and R2 is 2 chloro , 2 fluoro, 4 chloro or 4 f luoro phenyl. 14. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the compound is 1 1,2,4 Triazol 1 yl 2 4 floerophenyl 2 4 chlorophenyl ethan 2 ol 1 1,2,4 Triazol l yl 2 2 fluorophenyl 2 4 fluorophenyl ethan 2 ol 1 1,2,4 Triazol l yl 2 4 fluorophenyl 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl ethan 2 ol 1 1,2,4 Triazol 1 yl 2,2 4 fluorophenyl ethan 2 1 1,2,4 Triazol l yl 2 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 chlorophenyl ethan 2 ol l l, 2,4 Triazol l yl 2 4 fluorophenyl 2 2 chlorophenyl ethan l ol 2,2 dimethyl 3 2 methoxybenzyl 4 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl butan 3 ol l tl,2,4 Triazol l yl 2 2 chloro 4 methoxyphenyl 2 4 fluorophenyl ethan 2 ol 1 1,2,4 Triazol 1 yl 2 4 chlorophenyl 3,3 dimetl butan 2 ol 1 1,2,4 Triazol l yl bis 2 4 fluorophenyl 2 methOxy ethane 1 1,2,4 Triazol l yl 2 4 fluorophenyl 2 2 fluoro 4 methyl phenyl ethan 2 ol or 1 1,2,4 Triazol l yl 2 4 fluorophenyl 2 2 chloro 4 methyl phenyl ethan 2 ol. 15. A racemic compound of general formula I EMI76.1 and stereoisomers thereof, wherein R1 is C1 6 alkyl1 cyclopropyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl or phenyl, and R2 is phenyl or benzyl the phenyl of R1 being optionally substituted with halogen, C15 alkyl, C15 alkoxy, C1 10 alkoxyalkyl, halo C1 4 alkyl, halo C14 alkoxy, halo C15 alkoxy halo C15 alkyl, nitro, phenyl, phenoxy, benzyl, optionally halo substituted benzyloxy, alkylenedioxy, acetylamino, halo alkylenedioxy, amino, mono or di C1 4 alkylamino, hydroxy, cyano, morpholino or carboxy or an alkyl ester thereof, and or the alkyl moiety of the benzyl is optionally substituted with one C1 4 alkyl the phenyl, or phenyl moiety of the benzyl, of R2 being substituted with C1 10 alkoxyalkyl, halo C1 4 alkyl other than CF3, halo C1 4 alkoxy, halo C15 alkoxy halo C1 5 alkyl, benzyl, optionally halo substituted benzyloxy, alkylenedioxy, acetylamino, halo alkylenedioxy, amino, mono or di C1 4 alkylamino, hydroxy, cyano1 morpholino or carboxy or an alkyl ester therof, and or the alkyl moiety of the benzyl is optionally substituted with one C1 4 alkyl and acid addition salts, ethers, esters and metal complexes thereof. 16. A compound as claimed in claim 1 wherein R1 is C1 4 alkyl and R2 is optionally substituted benzyl. 17. A compound as claimed in claim 1 wherein R1 is optionally substituted phenyl and R2 is optionally substituted benzyl. 18. A compound as claimed in claim 1 wherein each of R1 and R2, which may be the same or different, is optionally substituted phenyl. 19. A compound as claimed in claim 1 wherein R1 is C1 4 alkyl and R2 is optionally substituted phenyl. 20. A compound as claimed in claim 1 wherein R1 is butyl. 21. A compound as claimed in claim 20 wherein R1 is t butyl. 22. A compound according to claims 17 or 18 wherein R1 is halophenyl. 23. A compound according to claim 22 wherein R1 is chlorophenyl or fluorophenyl. 24. A compound according to claim 22 or 23 wherein at least one phenyl ring bears one or more alkoxy groups. 25. The compounds 2,2 dimethyl 3 2 methoxybenzyl 4 tl,2,4 triazol 1 yl butan 3 ol l tl,2,4 triazol 1 yl 2 t2 chloro 4 methoxyphenyl 2 t4 fluorophenyl ethan 2 ol 1 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 2 chlorophenyl 3,3 dimethyl butan 2 ol 1 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl bis 2 4 fluorophenyl 2 methOxy ethane , 1 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 2 4 fluorophenyl 2 2 fluoro 4 methyl phenyl ethan 2 ol and 1 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 2 4 fluorophenyl 2 2 chloro 4 methyl phenyl ethan 2 ol. 26. A process for preparing a compound, salt or metal complex according to any of the preceding claims, characterised by comprising reacting a compound of general formula II or III EMI79.1 wherein R1 and R2 are as defined in claim 1 without the provisio and X is halogen especially chlorine with 1,2,4 triazole in the presence of an acid binding agent or with an alkali metal salt of 1,2,4 triazole in a convenient solvent. 27. A process according to claim 26 wherein a compound of formula II or III is brought into reaction with the sodium salt of 1,2,4 triazole at a temperature of from 20 to 100 C. 28. A process according to claims 26 and 27 wherein the reaction is carried out using acetonitrile, methanol, ethanol or dimethylformamide as a solvent. 29. A process according to any of claims 26, 27 and 28 wherein the compounds of general formula II and III are prepared by reacting a compound of general formula IVa and IVbEMI79.2 wherein R1, R2 and X are as defined above with, respectively, a Grignard compound of formula Va or Vb Y Mg R2 Y Mg R1 Va Vb wherein R1 and R2 are as defined above and Y is a halogen preferably chlorine, bromine or iodine in a convenient solvent such as diethyl ether or tetrahydro furan. 30. Compounds having the formulaeEMI80.1 Formula II andEMI80.2 Formula III wherein R1 and R2 are as defined in any of the preceding claims and X is a halogen atom, especially chlorine. 31. A compound as claimed in claim 30 wherein R1 and R2, which may be the same or different, are optionally substituted phenyl. 32. The compounds of general formulaeEMI81.1 33. A plant growth regulating composition characterised in that it comprises, as an active ingredient a compound as defined in any of claims 15 to 25. 34. A method of regulating plant growth which comprises applying to the plant, to seed of the plant, or to the locus of the plant or seed a compound, salt or complex according to any of claims 15 to 25 or a composition according to claim 33. 35. A fungicidal composition characterised in that it comprises, as an active ingredient, a compound, or salt, ester1 ether, or metal complex thereof, as defined in any of claims 15 to 25, together with a carrier or diluent. 36. A method of combating fungi, especially fungal diseases in a plant, which method comprises applying to the plant, to seed of the plant or to the locus of the plant or seed a salt, salt or complex according to any of the claims 15 to 25 or a composition as claimed in claim 35.

## Description
This invention relates to triazole compounds useful as fungicides and plant growth regulating agents, to a process for preparing them, to fungicidal and plant growth regulating compositions containing them, and to a method of combating fungi, especially fungal infections in plants, and to a method for regulating the growth of plants using them. The present invention provides a method of regulating plant growth which comprises applying to a plant, to seed of a plant, or to the locus of the plant or seed a compound of general formula I EMI1.1 wherein R1 is C16 alkyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopropyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl or phenyl, and R2 is phenyl or benzyl the phenyl of R1 and the phenyl or phenyl moiety of the benzyl of R2 being optionally substituted with halogen, C16 alkyl, C15 alkoxy, C1 10 alkoxyalkyl, halo C1 4 alkyl, halo C1 4 alkoxy, halo C15 alkoxy halo C15 alkyl, nitro, phenyl, phenoxy, benzyl, optionally halo substituted benzyloxy, 1 2 alkylenedioxy, acetylamino, halo C12 alkylenedioxy, amino, mono or di C14 alkylamino, hydroxy, cyano, morpholino or carboxy or an alkyl ester thereof, and or the alkyl moiety of the benzyl is optionally substituted with one C1 4 alkyl or an acid addition salt, ether, ester or metal complex thereof. In a further aspect the invention provides a method as defined above wherein R1 is C14 alkyl and R2 is optionally substituted benzyl. In another aspect the invention provides a method as described above wherein R1 is optionally substituted phenyl and R2 is optionally substituted benzyl. In a yet further aspect the invention provides a method as defined above wherein each of R1 and R2, which may be the same or different, is optionally substituted phenyl. In a still further aspect the invention provides a method as defined above wherein R1 is C14 alkyl andR2 is optionally substituted phenyl, especially halophenyl and particularly chlorophenyl. When R1 is alkyl it can be a straight or branched chain group having 1 to 6, e.g. 1 to 4, carbon atoms examples are methyl, ethyl, propyl n or iso propyl , butyl n , sec , iso or t butyl , pentyl e.g. n pentyl and hexyl e.g. n hexyl . It is preferably butyl, especially t butyl, and especially so when R2 is chlorophenyl. The compounds of the invention can contain chiral centres. Such compounds are generally obtained in the form of racemic mixtures. However, these and other mixtures can be separated into the individual isomers by methods known in the art. Examples of suitable substituents for the phenyl and for the phenyl moiety of the benzyl are halogen e.g.fluorine, chlorine or bromine , C1 5 alkyl Ee.g. methyl, ethyl, propyl n or iso propyl and butyl n , sec , isoor t butyl , C14 alkoxy e.g. methoxy and ethoxy , halo C1 4 alkyl e.g. trifluoromethyl or 1, 1, 2, 2tetrafluoroethyl , halo C14 alkoxy e.g.trifluoromethoxy or 1, 1, 2, 2 tetrafluoroethoxy , nitro, phenyl, phenoxy, benzyl, benzyloxy optionally ring substituted with halogen , alkylenedioxy, haloalkylenedioxy e.g. difluoromethylenedioxy , amino, mono or di C14 alkylamino e.g. dimethylamino , hydroxy, morpholino and carboxy and alkyl esters thereof . The alkyl moiety of the benzyl can be substituted with for example one alkyl e.g. methyl or ethyl . Suitably the phenyl and benzyl are unsubstituted or substituted with 1, 2 or 3 ring substituents as defined above. Preferably the benzyl and phenyl have a single ring substituent in the 2 or 4 position.Examples of these groups are phenyl, benzyl, methylbenzyl, 2 , 3 or 4chlorophenyl, 2,4 or 2,6 dichlorophenyl, 2 , 3 or 4fluorophenyl, 2,4 or 2,6 difluorophenyl, 2 , 3 or 4bromophenyl, 2 chloro 4 fluorophenyl, 2 fluoro 4 chlorophenyl, 2 chloro 6 fluorophenyl, 2 , 3 or 4methoxyphenyl, 2, 4 dimethoxyphenyl, 2 , 3 or 4 ethoxyphenyl, 2. , 3 or 4 nitrophenyl, 2 chloro 4 nitrophenyl, 2 chloro 5 nitrophenyl, 2 , 3 or 4 methylphenyl, 2, 4 dimethylphenyl, 2 , 3 or 4 t butylphenyl, 2 , 3 or 4 trifluoromethylphenyl, 2 , 3 or 4 trifluoromethoxyphenyl, 2 , 3 or 4 1,1,2,2 tetrafluoroethyl phenyl, 2, 3 difluoromethylenedioxy phenyl, 2 fluoro 4 methoxyphenyl. 2methoxy 4 fluorophenyl, 2 methoxy 4 chlorophenyl, 2methoxy 4 fluorophenyl, 2 , 3 or 4 phenoxyphenyl, 2 , 3or 4 phenylphenyl 2 , 3 or 4 biphenylyl , 2 , 3 or 4benzylphenyl, 2 , 3 or 4 benzyloxyphenyl, 2 , 3 or chloro or 4 fluorobenzyloxy phenyl, 2 , 3 or 4 aminophenyl, 2 , 3 or 4 N,N dimethylamino phenyl, 2 , 3 or 4 hydroxyphenyl, 2 , 3 or 4 carboxyphenyl, 2 , 3 or 4 methoxycarbonyl phenyl, 2 , 3 or 4 morpholinophenyl and the corresponding ring substituted benzyl and g methyl benzyl groups. In a further aspect, therefore, the invention provides a method as defined above wherein R1 and R2 are both halophenyl and preferably one wherein R1 andR2, which may be the same or different, are each chlorophenyl or fluorophenyl. Furthermore in another aspect the invention provides a method as defined above wherein at least one phenyl ring also bears one or more alkoxy groups, and, for example, R1 may be Z chloro 4methoxyphenyl when R2 is 2 chloro, 2 fluoro, 4 chloroor 4 fluoro phenyl. In a preferred aspect the invention provides a method as defined above wherein the compound is 1 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 2 4 fluorophenyl 2 4 chlorophenyl ethan 2 ol l 1,2,4 triazol l y1 2 2 fluorophenyl 2 4 fluorophenyl ethan 2 ol 1 1,2,4triazol l yl 2 4 fluorophenyl 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl ethan 2 ol 1 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 2,2 di 4 flurophenyl ethan 2 ol 1 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 2 4chlorophenyl 2 2 chlorophenyl ethan 2 ol 1 1,2,4 triazol l yl 2 4 fluorophenyl 2 2 chlorophenyl ethan 1 ol 2,2 dimethyl 3 2 methoxybenzyl 4 1,2,4 triazol l yl butan 3 ol l 1,2,4 triazol l y1 2 2 chloro 4methoxyphenyl 2 4 fluorophenyl ethan 2 ol 1 1,2,4triazol 1 yl 2 4 chlorophenyl 3,3 dimethyl butan 2 ol 1 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl bis 2 4 fluorophenyl 2methoxy ethane l 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 2 4 fluorophenyl 2 2 fluoro 4 methyl phenyl ethan 2 ol 1 1,2,4 trizol 1 yl 2 4 fluorophenyl 2 2 chloro 4 methyl phenyl ethan 2 ol The invention further provides a racemic compound of formula I EMI4.1 and stereoisomers thereof, wherein R1 is C16 alkyl1 cyclopropyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl or phenyl, and R2 is phenyl or benzyl the phenyl of R1 being optionally substituted with halogen, C1 5 alkyl, C1 5 alkoxy,C1 10 alkoxyalkyl, halo C14 alkyl, halo C14 alkoxy, halo C1 5 alkoxy, halo C15 alkyl, nitro, phenyl, phenoxy, benzyl, optionally halo substituted benzyloxy, alkylenedioxy, acetylamino, halo alkylenedioxy, amino, mono or di C14 alkylamino, hydroxy, cyano, morpholino or carboxy or an alkyl ester thereof, and or the alkyl moiety of the benzyl is optionally substituted with one C14 alkyl the phenyl, or phenyl moiety of the benzyl, of R2 being substituted with C1 10 alkoxyalkyl, halo C14 alkyl other than CF3, halo C14 alkoxy, halo C1 5 alkoxy halo C1 5 alkyl, benzyl, optionally halo substituted benzyloxy, alkylenedioxy, amino, mono or di C14 alkylamino, hydroxy, cyano, morpholino or carboxy or an alkyl ester thereof, and or the alkyl moiety of the benzyl is optionally substituted with one C14 alkyl and acid addition salts, ethers, esters and metal complexes. In another aspect the invention provides a compound as claimed in claim 1 wherein R1 ic C14 alkyl andR2 is optionally substituted benzyl. In a still further aspect the invention provides a compound as defined above wherein R1 is optionally substituted phenyl and R2 is optionally substituted benzyl. In a yet further aspect the compound as defined above wherein each of R1 and R2, which may be the same or different, is optionally substituted phenyl. In another aspect the invention provides a compound as defined above wherein R1 is C1 4 alkyl and R2 is optionally substituted phenyl. The invention additionally provides a compound as defined above wherein R1 is butyl, especially t butyl. The invention furthermore provides a compound as defined above wherein R1 is halophenyl, especially chlorophenyl or fluorophenyl and, as a further feature at least one phenyl ring may bear one or more alkoxy groups. In a particular aspect the invention provides the compounds 2,2 dimethyl 3 2 methoxybenzyl 4 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl butan 3 ol l 1,2,4 triazol l y1 2 2 chloro 4 methoxyphenyl 2 4 fluorophenyl ethan 2 ol 1 jl,2,4 triazol l yl 2 4 chlorophenyl 3, 3 dimetbyl butan 2 ol l 1,2, 4 triazol l yl bis 2 4 fluorophenyl 2 methoxy methane 1 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 2 4 fluorophenyl 2 2 fluoro 4 methyl phenyl ethan 2 ol and 1 112, 4 triazol 1 yl 2 4 fluorophenyl 2 2 chloro 4 methyl phenyl ethan2 ol. The salts of the compounds of the method and of the novel compounds can be salts with inorganic or organic acids e.g. hydrochloric, nitric, sulphuric, acetic, p toluenesulphonic or oxalic acid. Suitably the metal complex is one including, as the metal, copper, zinc, manganese or iron. It preferably has the general formulaEMI6.1 wherein Y, R1 and R2 are as defined above. M is a metal, A is an anion e.g. a chloride, bromide, iodide, nitrate, sulphate or phosphate anion , n is 2 or 4, y is O or an integer of 1 to 12, and m is an integer consistent with valency. Examples of the compounds of the invention are shown in Table I. TABLE I EMI7.1 COMPOUND SEP NO SEP R1 SEP R2 SEP MELTING SEP POINT SEP C tb SEP 1 SEP C6H5 SEP C6H5CH2 SEP 124 125 tb SEP 2 SEP C6H5 SEP p Cl C6H4CH2 SEP 144 145 tb SEP 3 SEP C6H5 SEP p F C6H4CH2 SEP 116 118 tb SEP 4 SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP p Cl C6H4CH2 SEP 80 83 tb SEP 5 SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP C6H5CH2 SEP 109 111 tb SEP 6 SEP p F C6H4 SEP C6H5CH2 SEP 141 142 tb SEP 7 SEP C6H5 SEP 2,4 diCl C6H3CH2 SEP 104 106 tb SEP 8 SEP p F C6H4 SEP p F C6H4CH2 SEP 154 156 tb SEP 9 SEP p F C6H4 SEP P Cl C6H4CH2 SEP 168 170 tb SEP 10 SEP t Bu SEP C6H5CH2 SEP 110 111 tb SEP 11 SEP t Bu SEP p Cl C6H4CH2 SEP 86 87 tb SEP 12 SEP t Bu SEP p F C6H4CH2 SEP 146 148 tb SEP 13 SEP C6H5 SEP o F C6H4CH2 SEP 133 134 tb SEP 14 SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP o F C6H4CH2 SEP 95 96 tb SEP 15 SEP C6H5 SEP o Cl C6H4CH2 SEP 69 71 tb SEP 16 SEP p MeO C6H4 SEP C6H5CH2 SEP 100 103 tb SEP 17 SEP C6H5 SEP C6H5 SEP 128 129 tb SEP 18 SEP p F C6H4 SEP p F C6H4CH2 SEP 161 163 tb SEP 19 SEP C6H5 SEP 2,4 diCl C6H3CH2 SEP 104 106 tb Includes 1 mole of C2H5OH This compound is a different crystalline form of compound no.8 TABLE I CONTINUED... EMI8.1 COMPOUND SEP NO SEP R1 SEP R2 SEP MELTING SEP POINT SEP C tb SEP 20 SEP t Bu SEP o Cl C6H4CH2 SEP 74 75 tb SEP 21 SEP t Bu SEP o F C6H4CH2 SEP 96 98 tb SEP 22 SEP t Bu SEP m Cl C6H4CH2 SEP 88 89 tb SEP 23 SEP t Bu SEP m CF3 C6H4CH2 SEP 106 107 tb SEP 24 SEP C6H5 SEP p t Bu C6H4CH2 SEP 80 83 tb SEP 25 SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP C6H5 SEP 83 85 tb SEP 26 SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP 147 148 tb SEP 27 SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP p F C6H4 SEP 154 155 tb SEP 28 SEP 2,4 diCl C6H3 SEP C6H5 SEP 191 194 tb SEP 29 SEP p F C6H4 SEP p F C6H4 SEP 170 171 tb SEP 30 SEP p F C6H4 SEP C6H5 SEP 139 140 tb SEP 31 SEP i Bu SEP C6H5 SEP 94 95 tb SEP 32 SEP n Bu SEP p Cl C6H5 SEP 95 97 tb SEP 33 SEP t Bu SEP 2 Cl 6 F C6H3CH2 SEP 34 SEP t Bu SEP 2 Cl 4 F C6H3CH2 SEP 95 tb SEP 35 SEP t Bu SEP 2 F 4 Cl C6H3CH2 SEP 104 106 tb SEP 36 SEP t Bu SEP 2,4 diCl C6H3CH2 SEP 37 SEP t Bu SEP 2,6 diCl C6H3CH2 SEP 38 SEP t Bu SEP 2,6 diF C6H3CH2 SEP 39 SEP p OCF2HC6H4 SEP C6H5 SEP glass tb TABLE I CONTINUED... EMI9.1 COMPOUND SEP NO SEP R1 SEP R2 SEP MELTING SEP POINT SEP C tb SEP 40 SEP C6H5 SEP p t Bu C6H4 SEP 131 135 tb SEP 41 SEP C6H5 SEP o Cl C6H4 SEP 142 143 tb SEP 42 SEP C6H5 SEP o F C6H4 SEP 126 128 tb SEP 43 SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP o Cl C6H4 SEP 137 138 tb SEP 44 SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP o F C6H4 SEP 144 145 tb SEP 45 SEP p F C6H4 SEP o Cl C6H4 SEP 115 116 tb SEP 46 SEP p F C6H4 SEP o F C6H4 SEP 120 123 tb SEP 47 SEP C6H5 SEP o C6H5O C6H4 SEP 48 SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP o C6H5 C6H4 SEP 49 SEP C6H5 SEP o Me C6H4 SEP 161 162 tb SEP 50 SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP o Me C6H4 SEP 157 158 tb SEP 51 SEP 2,4 diCl C6H3 SEP p F C6H4 SEP 137 138 tb SEP 52 SEP o Cl C6H4 SEP p MeO C6H4 SEP 184 185 tb SEP 53 SEP 2,4 diCl C6H3 SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP 174 175 tb SEP 54 SEP 2,4 diCl C6H3 SEP o Cl C6H4 SEP 149 151 tb SEP 55 SEP 2,4 diCl C6H3 SEP o F C6H4 SEP 146 147 tb SEP 56 SEP p C6H5CH2O C6H4 SEP C6H5 SEP 134 136 tb SEP 57 SEP p p Cl C6H4CH2O SEP C6H5 SEP 98 100 tb SEP C6H4 SEP 58 SEP m Cl C6H4 SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP 139 142 tb SEP 59 SEP p p F C6H4CH2O SEP C6H5 SEP 105 107 tb SEP C6H4 TABLE I CONTINUED... EMI10.1 COMPOUND SEP NO SEP R1 SEP R2 SEP MELTING SEP POINT SEP C tb SEP 60 SEP m Cl C6H4 SEP p F C6H4 SEP 190 193 tb SEP 61 SEP m Cl C6H4 SEP p MeO C6H4 SEP 58 60 tb SEP 62 SEP 2,4 diCl C6H3 SEP m Cl C6H4 SEP 139 142 tb SEP 63 SEP o Me C6H4 SEP p F C6H4 SEP 200 201 tb SEP 64 SEP p F C6H4 SEP p CO2CH3 C6H4 SEP 164 166 SEP HCl SEP Salt tb SEP 65 SEP p OC2H5 C6H4 SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP 126 127 tb SEP 66 SEP p OCF2H C6H4 SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP glass tb SEP 67 SEP p OCF2H C6H4 SEP o Cl C6H4 SEP glass tb SEP 68 SEP o Br C6H4 SEP C6H5 SEP 69 SEP o Br C6H4 SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP 151 152 tb SEP 70 SEP o Br C6H4 SEP p F C6H4 SEP 109 111 tb SEP 71 SEP p NO2 C6H4 SEP C6H5 SEP 164 166 tb SEP 72 SEP 2 Cl 5 NO2 C6H3 SEP C6H5 SEP 206 208 tb SEP 73 SEP 2 Cl 4 NO2 C6H3 SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP 74 SEP o NH2 C6H4 SEP C6H5 SEP 75 SEP p Me C6H4 SEP C6H5 SEP 125 127 tb SEP 76 SEP o CO2H C6H4 SEP p F C6H4 SEP 77 SEP o CO2Me C6H4 SEP p F C6H4 SEP 78 SEP o CO2H C6H4 SEP C6H5 SEP 79 SEP o CO2Me C6H4 SEP C6H5 SEP 80 SEP o OH C6H4 SEP C6H5 SEP 81 SEP o MeO C6H4 SEP C6H5 SEP 113 116 tb SEP 82 SEP o MeO C6H4 SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP 129 131 tb TABLE I CONTINUED... EMI11.1 COMPOUND SEP NO SEP R1 SEP R2 SEP MELTING SEP POINT SEP C tb SEP 83 SEP o MeO C6H4 SEP p F C6H4 SEP 133 135 tb SEP 84 SEP p OH C6H4 SEP C6H5 SEP 85 SEP p Br C6H4 SEP C6H5 SEP 104 105 tb SEP 86 SEP p Br C6H4 SEP p Br C6H4 SEP 159 160 tb SEP 87 SEP p Br C6H4 SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP 138 139 tb SEP 88 SEP p CH3 2N C6H4 SEP C6H5 SEP 89 SEP o Me C6H4 SEP p Me C6H4 SEP 117 120 tb SEP 90 SEP o Cl C6H4 SEP p Me C6H4 SEP 169 170 tb SEP 91 SEP o F C6H4 SEP p Me C6H4 SEP 156 158 tb SEP 92 SEP o Br C6H4 SEP p Me C6H4 SEP 93 SEP o NH2 C6H4 SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP 94 SEP o CO2H C6H4 SEP p Me C6H4 SEP 95 SEP o CO2Me C6H4 SEP p Me C6H4 SEP 96 SEP p MO C6H4 SEP C6H5 SEP 97 SEP p F C6H4 SEP p NO2 C6H4 SEP 145 148 tb SEP 98 SEP o CO2H C6H4 SEP p Br C6H4 SEP 99 SEP o CO2Me C6H4 SEP p Br C6H4 SEP 100 SEP o CO2H C6H4 SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP 101 SEP o CO2Me C6H4 SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP 102 SEP p Me C6H4 SEP p Me C6H4 SEP 153 154 tb SEP 103 SEP 2,4 diMe C6H3 SEP C6H5 SEP 148 9 tb TABLE CONTINUED EMI12.1 COMPOUND SEP NO SEP R1 SEP R2 SEP MELTING SEP POINT SEP C tb SEP 104 SEP m NO2 C6H4 SEP C6H5 SEP 212 215 SEP HCl SEP salt tb SEP 105 SEP o Cl C6H4 SEP o Cl C6H4 SEP 164 166 tb SEP 106 SEP o CF3 C6H4 SEP C6H5 SEP 107 SEP m CF3 C6H4 SEP C6H5 SEP 115 117 tb SEP 108 SEP p CF3 C6H4 SEP C6H5 SEP 207 210 SEP HCl SEP salt tb SEP 109 SEP m CF3 C6H4 SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP 104 106 tb SEP 110 SEP p OCF3 C6H4 SEP C6H5 SEP glass tb SEP 111 SEP p OCF3 C6H4 SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP 107 108 tb SEP 112 SEP p OCF3 C6H4 SEP o Cl C6H4 SEP 99 100 tb SEP 113 SEP p OCF3 C6H4 SEP p OCF3 C6H4 SEP 114 SEP m OCF3 C6H4 SEP C6H5 SEP 115 SEP m OCF3 C6H4 SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP 116 SEP m OCF3 C6H4 SEP p Br C6H4 SEP 117 SEP o OCF2CHF2 C6H4 SEP C6H5 SEP 188 189 tb SEP 118 SEP o OCF2CHF2 C6H4 SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP 94 95 tb SEP 119 SEP m OCF2CHF2 C6H4 SEP C6H5 SEP 120 SEP m OCF2CHF2 C6H4 SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP 121 SEP p OCF2CHF2 C6H4 SEP C6H5 SEP glass tb SEP 122 SEP p OCF2CHF2 C6H4 SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP glass tb SEP 123 SEP p OCF2CHF2 C6H4 SEP p OCF2CHF2 C6H4 SEP glass tb SEP 124 SEP 3,4 Z C6H4 SEP C6H5 melting point of HCl salt of this compound is 184 185 melting point of the 1 1 complex of this compound with isopropyl alcohol is 74.5 77.5 . TABLE I CONTINUED... EMI13.1 COMPOUND SEP NO SEP R1 SEP R2 SEP MELTING SEP POINT SEP C tb SEP 125 SEP 3,4 Z C6H4 SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP Glass tb SEP 126 SEP 3,4 Z C6H4 SEP o Cl C6H4 SEP 127 SEP 3,4 Z C6H4 SEP p F C6H4 SEP 128 SEP t Bu SEP o Br C6H4CH2 SEP 111 115 tb SEP 129 SEP t Bu SEP 2,4 diF C6H3CH2 SEP 140 tb SEP 130 SEP t Bu SEP o MeO C6H4CH2 SEP 113 116 tb SEP 131 SEP Me SEP C6H5 SEP Oil tb SEP 132 SEP Me SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP 88 90 tb SEP 133 SEP Me SEP 2,4 diCl C6H3 SEP 77 81 tb SEP 134 SEP Me SEP p F C6H4 SEP 135 SEP Me SEP o Cl C6H4 SEP 136 SEP Me SEP o F C6H4 SEP 137 SEP Me SEP o Me C6H4 SEP 138 SEP Me SEP 2,4 diMe C6H3 SEP 139 SEP Et SEP C6H5 SEP 96 97 tb SEP 140 SEP Et SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP 105 106 tb SEP 141 SEP Et SEP 2,4 diCl C6H3 SEP 142 SEP Et SEP p F C6H4 SEP 94 tb SEP 143 SEP Et SEP o Cl C6H4 SEP 144 SEP Et SEP o F C6H4 SEP 145 SEP Me SEP o Me C6H4 TABLE I CONTINUED... EMI14.1 COMPOUND SEP NO SEP R1 SEP R2 SEP MELTING SEP POINT SEP C tb SEP 146 SEP Me SEP 2,4 diMe C6H3 SEP 147 SEP n Pr SEP C6H5 SEP 77 79 tb SEP 148 SEP n Pr SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP 149 SEP n Pr SEP p F C6H4 SEP 150 SEP n Pr SEP 2,4 diCl C6H3 SEP 151 SEP n Pr SEP o Cl C6H4 SEP 152 SEP n Pr SEP o F C6H4 SEP 153 SEP n Pr SEP o Me C6H4 SEP 154 SEP n Pr SEP 2,4 diMe C6H3 SEP 155 SEP n Pr SEP p MeO C6H4 SEP 156 SEP n Pr SEP o MeO C6H4 SEP 157 SEP i Pr SEP C6H5 SEP 158 SEP i Pr SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP 159 SEP i Pr SEP p F C6H4 SEP 160 SEP i Pr SEP 2,4 diCl C6H3 SEP 161 SEP i Pr SEP o Cl C6H4 SEP 162 SEP i Pr SEP o F C6H4 SEP 163 SEP i Pr SEP o Me C6H4 SEP 164 SEP i Pr SEP 2,4 diMe C6H3 SEP 165 SEP i Pr SEP o MeO C6H4 SEP 166 SEP i Pr SEP p MeO C6H4 TABLE I CONTINUED... EMI15.1 COMPOUND SEP NO SEP R1 SEP R2 SEP MELTING SEP POINT SEP C tb SEP 167 SEP C3H5 SEP C6H5 SEP 91 92 tb SEP 168 SEP C3H5 SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP Oil tb SEP 169 SEP C3H5 SEP p F C6H4 SEP 170 SEP C3H5 SEP 2,4 diCl C6H3 SEP 171 SEP C3H5 SEP o Cl C6H4 SEP 172 SEP C3H5 SEP o F C6H4 SEP 173 SEP C3H5 SEP o Me C6H4 SEP 174 SEP C3H5 SEP 2,4 diMe C6H3 SEP 175 SEP C3H5 SEP o MeO C6H4 SEP 176 SEP C3H5 SEP p MeO C6H4 SEP 101 2 tb SEP 177 SEP n Bu SEP C6H5 SEP 62 63 tb SEP 178 SEP n Bu SEP p F C6H4 SEP 93 95 tb SEP 179 SEP n Bu SEP 2,4 diCl C6H3 SEP 106 108 tb SEP 180 SEP n Bu SEP o Cl C6H4 SEP 181 SEP n Bu SEP o F C6H4 SEP 182 SEP n Bu SEP o Me C6H4 SEP 183 SEP n Bu SEP 2,4 diMe C6H4 SEP 184 SEP n Bu SEP o MeO C6H4 SEP 185 SEP n Bu SEP p MeO C6H4 SEP 186 SEP i Bu SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP 187 SEP i Bu SEP p F C6H4 TABLE I CONTINUED... EMI16.1 COMPOUND SEP NO SEP R1 SEP R2 SEP MELTING SEP POINT SEP C tb SEP 188 SEP i Bu SEP 2,4 diCl C6H3 SEP 189 SEP i Bu SEP o Cl C6H4 SEP 190 SEP i Bu SEP o F C6H4 SEP 191 SEP i Bu SEP o Me C6H4 SEP 192 SEP i Bu SEP 2,4 diMe C6H3 SEP 193 SEP i Bu SEP p MeO C6H4 SEP 194 SEP i Bu SEP o MeO C6H4 SEP 195 SEP t Bu SEP C6H5 SEP 75 tb SEP 196 SEP t Bu SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP 70 73 tb SEP 197 SEP t Bu SEP 2,4 diCl C6H3 SEP 198 SEP t Bu SEP p F C6H4 SEP 92 3 tb SEP 199 SEP t Bu SEP o Cl C6H4 SEP 200 SEP t Bu SEP o F C6H4 SEP 201 SEP t Bu SEP o Me C6H4 SEP 202 SEP t Bu SEP 2,4 diMe C6H3 SEP 203 SEP t Bu SEP o MeO C6H4 SEP 204 SEP t Bu SEP p MeO C6H4 SEP 48 tb SEP 205 SEP n Pe SEP C6H5 SEP 206 SEP n Pe SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP 207 SEP n Pe SEP 2,4 diCl C6H3 SEP 208 SEP n Pe SEP p F C6H4 TABLE I CONTINUED... EMI17.1 COMPOUND SEP NO SEP R1 SEP R2 SEP MELTING SEP POINT SEP C tb SEP 209 SEP n Pe SEP o Cl C6H4 SEP 210 SEP n Pe SEP o F C6H4 SEP 211 SEP n Pe SEP o Me C6H4 SEP 212 SEP n Pe SEP 2,4 diMe C6H3 SEP 213 SEP n Pe SEP o MeO C6H4 SEP 214 SEP n Pe SEP p MeO C6H4 SEP 215 SEP C5H9 SEP C6H5 SEP 216 SEP C5H9 SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP 217 SEP C5H9 SEP 2,4 diCl C6H3 SEP 218 SEP C5H9 SEP p F C6H4 SEP 219 SEP C5H9 SEP o Cl C6H4 SEP 220 SEP C5H9 SEP o F C6H4 SEP 221 SEP C5H9 SEP o Me C6H4 SEP 222 SEP C5H9 SEP p Me C6H4 SEP 223 SEP C5H9 SEP o MeO C6H4 SEP 224 SEP C5H9 SEP p MeO C6H4 SEP 225 SEP n He SEP C6H5 SEP 226 SEP n He SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP 227 SEP n He SEP 2,4 diCl C6H3 SEP 228 SEP n He SEP p F C6H4 SEP 97 99 tb TABLE I CONTINUED... EMI18.1 COMPOUND SEP NO SEP R1 SEP R2 SEP MELTING SEP POINT SEP C tb SEP 229 SEP n He SEP o Cl C6H4 SEP 230 SEP n He SEP o F C6H4 SEP 231 SEP n He SEP o Me C6H4 SEP 232 SEP n He SEP 2,4 diMe C6H3 SEP 233 SEP n He SEP o MeO C6H4 SEP 234 SEP n He SEP p MeO C6H4 SEP 235 SEP C6H11 SEP C6H5 SEP 110 111 tb SEP 236 SEP C6H11 SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP 45 tb SEP 237 SEP C6H11 SEP 2,4 diCl C6H4 SEP 238 SEP C6H11 SEP p F C6H4 SEP 239 SEP C6H11 SEP o Cl C6H4 SEP 240 SEP C6H11 SEP o F C6H4 SEP 241 SEP C6H11 SEP o Me C6H4 SEP 242 SEP C6H11 SEP 2,4 diMe C6H3 SEP 243 SEP C6H11 SEP o MeO C6H4 SEP 244 SEP C6H11 SEP p MeO C6H4 SEP 92 4 tb SEP 245 SEP t Bu SEP 2 F 4 MeO C6H3CH2 SEP 246 SEP t Bu SEP 2 MeO 4 F C6H3CH2 SEP 247 SEP t Bu SEP 2 MeO 4 Cl C6H3CH2 SEP 248 SEP t Bu SEP p MeO C6H4CH2 SEP 130 131 tb SEP 249 SEP t Bu SEP p CF3 C6H4CH2 TABLE I CONTINUED EMI19.1 COMPOUND SEP NO SEP R1 SEP R2 SEP MELTING tb SEP NO SEP POINT SEP C tb SEP 250 SEP 3 NO24 ClC6H3 SEP C6H5 SEP 139 141 tb SEP 251 SEP m Cl C6H4 SEP C6H5 SEP 108 110 tb SEP 252 SEP m F C6H4 SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP 55 59 tb SEP 253 SEP m F C6H4 SEP p F C6H4 SEP 116 118 tb SEP 254 SEP p OCH3C6H4 SEP C6H5 SEP 88 89 tb SEP 255 SEP p OC6H5 C6H4 SEP C6H5 SEP 103 105 tb SEP 256 SEP o OCH3 C6H4 SEP p OCH3 C6H4 SEP 133 134 tb SEP 257 SEP o F C6H4 SEP p OCH3 C6H4 SEP 144 145 tb SEP 258 SEP p NO2 C6H4 SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP 157 158 tb SEP 259 SEP p OCH3 C6H4 SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP 105 106 tb SEP 260 SEP p OC6H5 C6H4 SEP o Cl C6H4 SEP 100 102 tb SEP 261 SEP p OC6H5 C6H4 SEP o F C6H4 SEP 132 133 tb SEP 262 SEP o,p diCl C6H3 SEP p OCH3 C6H4 SEP 178 180 tb SEP 263 SEP p OCH3 C6H4 SEP p F C6H4 SEP 124 125 tb SEP 264 SEP p OCF2CHF2 C6H4 SEP o,p diCl C6H3 SEP 125 126 tb SEP 265 SEP p CO2Me C6H4 SEP C6H5 SEP 70 72 tb SEP 266 SEP p CN C6H4 SEP C6H5 SEP 82 85 tb SEP 267 SEP p CH3 C6H4 SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP 134 135 tb SEP 268 SEP p CH3 C6H4 SEP p F C6H4 SEP 124 125 tb TABLE I CTD EMI20.1 COMPOUND SEP NO SEP R1 SEP R2 SEP MELTING tb SEP NO SEP POINT SEP C tb SEP 269 SEP o OCH3 C6H4 SEP 2,4 diCl C6H3 SEP 152 153 tb SEP 270 SEP p OC6H5 C6H4 SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP gum SEP HCl tb SEP salt SEP m.p. tb SEP 177 178 tb SEP 271 SEP p OC6H5 C6H4 SEP p F C6H4 SEP 138 140 tb SEP HCl SEP salt tb SEP m.p.171 173 tb SEP 272 SEP p OCH CH3 2 C6H4 SEP p Cl C6H4 SEP 151 153 tb SEP 273 SEP n Bu SEP p CH3 C6H4 SEP 80 81 tb SEP 274 SEP n He SEP p CH3 C6H4 SEP 76 78 tb SEP 275 SEP 4 OCF3 C6H4 SEP 2 F C6H4 SEP glass tb SEP 276 SEP ditto SEP 4 F C6H4 SEP 132 133 tb SEP 277 SEP ditto SEP 2 OCH3 C6H4 SEP 115 116 tb SEP 278 SEP 2 OCF2H C6H4 SEP 2 Cl C6H4 SEP 114 115 tb SEP 279 SEP 2 OCF2CF2H C6H4 SEP 4 F C6H4 SEP 115 116 tb SEP 280 SEP 4 OCF2CF2H C6H4 SEP ditto SEP 125 126 tb SEP 281 SEP ditto SEP 2 F C6H4 SEP 110 111 tb TABLE I CTD EMI21.1 COMPOUND SEP RÚ SEP Rê SEP MELTING tb SEP NO SEP POINT SEP C tb SEP 282 SEP SEP 4 Cl C6H4 SEP 129 130 tb SEP Diastereoisomer SEP A SEP 98 99 tb 283 SEP 2,4 di Cl C6H3 SEP n C3H7 CH3 CH.CH2Diastereoisomer SEP B SEP 93 94 tb SEP 284 SEP 2 Cl C6H4 SEP 4 OC2H5 C6H4 SEP 94 96 tb SEP 285 SEP 2,4 diCl C6H3 SEP 4 OC2H5 C6H4 SEP 159 161 tb SEP 286 SEP 4 Cl C6H4 SEP 4 NH2 C6H4 SEP 56 tb SEP 287 SEP 4 Cl C6H4 SEP 4 CH3CONH C6H4 SEP 70 75 tb SEP 288 SEP 4 Cl C6H4 SEP 4 CN C6H4 SEP 160 tb SEP 289 SEP 4 F C6H4 SEP 4 CN C6H4 SEP 139 140 tb SEP 290 SEP 4 CH3 C6H4 SEP 2,4 diCl C6H3 SEP 183 tb SEP 291 SEP 2 Cl C6H4 SEP 2 OCH3 C6H4 SEP 148 150 tb SEP 292 SEP 4 CN C6H4 SEP 2,4 diCl C6H3 SEP 182 184 tb SEP 293 SEP 2 F 4 OCH3 C6H3 SEP 4 F C6H4 SEP 161 162 tb SEP 294 SEP 2 Cl 4 OCH3 C6H3 SEP 4 F C6H4 SEP 138 140 tb SEP 295 SEP 2 Cl 4 OCH3 C6H3 SEP 4 Cl C6H4 SEP 176 177 tb SEP 296 SEP 2 F 4 OCH3 C6H3 SEP 2 Cl C6H4 SEP 170 172 tb SEP 297 SEP 2 F 4 OCH3 C6H3 SEP 4 Cl C6H4 SEP 134 136 tb TABLE I CTD EMI22.1 COMPOUND SEP RÚ SEP Rê SEP MELTING tb SEP NO SEP POINT SEP C tb SEP 298 SEP 2 Cl 4 CH3 C6H3 SEP 4 F C6H4 SEP 158 tb SEP 299 SEP 2 CH3 4 Cl C6H3 SEP 4 F C6H4 SEP 65 67 tb SEP 300 SEP 2 F 4 CH3 C6H3 SEP 4 F C6H4 SEP SEP 301 SEP C4H7 SEP C6H5 SEP Oil tb SEP 302 SEP 4 NO2 C6H4 SEP 4 NO2 C6H4 SEP 303 SEP 4 NH2 C6H4 SEP 4 NH2 C6H4 SEP 304 SEP s butyl SEP 2,4 diCl2 C6H3 SEP 305 SEP s butyl SEP 4 Cl C6H4 SEP 306 SEP 4 Cl C6H4 SEP 3 CH3 4 ClC6H5 SEP 175 176 tb SEP 307 SEP 2,4 diCl C6H3 SEP 2,4 diCl C6H3 SEP 170 tb SEP 308 SEP 2 NO2 C6H4 SEP 3 NO2 C6H4 SEP 170 172 tb SEP 309 SEP 4 C2H5O C6H4 SEP 4 C2H5O C6H4 SEP gum tb Includes 1 mole of ethanol occluded in the crystal lattice. Compounds 8 and 18 were obtained as polymorphs and this explains their different melting points. n Pe n Pentyl n He n hexyl C3H5 cyclopropyl C4H7 cyclobutyl C5H9 cyclopentyl C6H11 cyclohexyl MO morpholinoZ difluoromethylenedioxy The compounds of general formula I may be produced by reacting a compound of general formula II or III EMI24.1 in which R1 and R2 are as defined above and X is a halogen atom preferably a chlorine or bromine atom , with 1,2,4 triazole either in the presence of an acid binding agent or in the form of one of its alkali metal salts in a convenient solvent. Suitably the compound of general formula II or III is reacted at 20 100 C with the sodium salt of 1,2,4 triazole the salt can be prepared by adding either sodium hydride or sodium methoxide to 1,2,4triazole in a convenient solvent such as acetonitrile, methanol, ethanol or dimethylformamide. The product can be isolated by pouring the reaction mixture into water and recrystallising the solid formed from a convenient solvent. The compounds of general formula II and III can be prepared by reacting a compound of general formula IVa or IVb EMI24.2 wherein R1, R2 and X are as defined above with, respectively, a Grignard compound of general formula Va or Vb Y Mg R2 y Mg R Va Vb wherein R1 and R2 are as defined above and Y us a halogen preferably chlorine, bromine or iodine in a convenient solvent such as diethyl ether or tetrahydrofuran. Generally a mixture of the compounds of general formula II and III are obtained.For example, when a compound of general formula IVa wherein R1 is alkyl or cycloalkyl is reacted, the compound of formula II generally predominates in the mixture on the other hand, when R1 is optionally substituted phenyl, the compound of general formula III generally predominates in the mixture. The compounds of general formula IV and V may be made by methods set out in the literature. The compounds of general formula II wherein each ofR1 and R2, which may be the same or different, is substituted phenyl may also be prepared by reacting the appropriate benzophenone compound of general formula VI R1 CO R2 wherein R1 and R2 are as defined above, with dimethyl oxosulphonium methylide Corey and Chaykovsky JACS, 1965, 87, 1353 1364 or dimethyl sulphonium methylide Corey andChaykovsky, JACS, 1962, 84, 3782 using methods set out in the literature. The benzophenone compounds of general formula VI can be prepared, using the Friedel Crafts reaction, by reacting a substituted benzoyl chloride with the appropriately substituted benzene in the presence of aLewis acid e.g. aluminium chloride. The compounds of general formula II wherein each of R1 is alkyl, cycloalkyl or optionally substituted phenyl and R2 is optionally substituted phenyl or optionally substituted benzyl can also be produced by reacting a A hydroxy selenide compound of general formula VII R1 CH3 Se CH2 C OH R2 VII wherein R1 and R2 are as defined above, with methyl iodide in potassium t butoxide according to the method ofVan Ende, Dumont and Krief, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed., 1975, 14, 700. Thefi hydroxy selenide compound can be prepared by treating the diselenide with the appropriate ketone in th presence of butyl lithium. The compounds of general formula III wherein R1 is alkyl or cycloalkyl and R2 is optionally substituted benzyl particularly benzyl ring substituted with alkoxy can also be prepared by reacting a compound of general formula VIII OH ArSCH2 C R1 R2 VIII wherein R1 and R2 are as defined above and Ar is aryl e.g. phenyl with an alkylating agent to give the corresponding sulphonium salt which is then reacted with 1,2,4 triazole in the form of an alkali metal e.g. sodium or potassium salt. The compound of general formula VIII can be prepared by methods known in the art. The invention further provides, as useful intermediates, the compounds having the formulae EMI27.1 Formula II andEMI27.2 Formula III wherein R1 and R2 are as defined in any of the preceding claims and X is a halogen atom, especially chlorine. In particular the invention provides a compound as defined above in the preceding paragraph wherein R1 and R2, which may be the same or different, are optionally substituted phenyl. In a further aspect the invention provides the the compounds of formulaeEMI27.3 EMI28.1 The salts and metal complexes of the compounds of general formula I can be prepared from the latter in known manner. For example, the complexes can be made by reacting the uncomplexed compound with a metal salt in a suitable solvent. The compounds of general formula I are generally prepared by the above reactions in the form of racemic mixtures. The resolution of these mixtures into the constituent enantiomers can be performed by known methods.Examples of these methods are 1 forming the diastereoisomeric salts or esters of the compound of general formula I with an optically active acid e.g. camphor sulphonic acid , separating the isomeric salts or esters and converting the separated isomeric salts or esters into the enantiomers of the compound of general formula I 2 forming the diastereoisomeric carbamates of the compound of general formula I by reacting a halo formate e.g. chloroformate of the latter with an optionally active amine e.g.d methylbenzylamine , separating the isomeric carbamates, and converting the separated isomeric carbamates into the enantiomers of the compound of general formula I , reacting the hemiphthate with an optically active amine e.g. methylbenzylamine to give a salt of the hemiphthate, separating the isomeric salts and converting the separated salts into the enantiomers of the compound of general formula I or 4 resolving the mixtures using enantio selective crystallisation techniques Leigh, Chemistry and Industry, 1970, pages 1016 1017, and ibid, 1977, page 36 .The separation of the diastereoisomeric salts, esters and carbamates can be achieved by for example crystallisation techniques or by high pressure liquid chromatography HPLC . Alternatively, the enantiomers can be prepared directly from the compound of general formula II by stereospecific reduction, for example by biochemical reduction using for example yeast or Aspergillus niger or by hydrogenation using chiral catalysts e.g. a Wilkinson s catalyst or by reduction with borohydride amino acid complexes. The compounds, salts, andmetal complexes, are active fungicides, particularly against the diseases Piricularia oryzae on ricePuccinia recondita, Puccinia striiformis and other rusts on wheat, Puccinia hordei, Puccinia striiformis and other rusts on barley, and rusts on other hosts e.g. coffee, apples, vegetables and ornamental plantsPlasmopara viticola on vinesErysiphe graminis powdery mildew on barley and wheat and other powdery mildews on various hosts such asSphaerotheca fuliginea on cucurbits e.g. cucumber ,Podosphaera leucotricha on apples and Uncinula necator on vinesHelminthosporium spp. and Rhynchosporium spp. on cerealsCercospora arachidicola on peanuts and other Cercospora species on for example suggar beet, bananas and soya beansBotrytis cinerea grey mould on tomatoes, strawberries, vines and other hostsPhytophthora infestans late blight on tomatoesVenturia inaequalis scab on apples Some of the compounds have also shown a broad range of activities against fungi in vitro. They have activity against various post harvest diseases on fruit e.g.Penicillium digatatum and italicum on oranges and Gloeosporium musarum on bananas . Further some of the compounds are active as seed dressings against Fusarium spp., Septoria spp., Tilletia.spp. i.e. bunt, a seed borne disease of wheat , Ustilago spp., Helminthosporium spp. on cereals, Rhizoctonia solani on cotton andCorticium sasakii on rice. The compounds can move acropetally in the plant tissue. Moreover, the compounds can be volatile enough to be active in the vapour phase against fungi on the plant. They may also be useful as industrial as opposed to agricultural fungicides, e.g. in the prevention of fungal attack on wood, hides, leather and especially paint films. The compounds can also have plant growth regulating activities. The plant growth regulating effects of the compounds are manifested as for example a stunting or dwarfing effect on the vegetative growth of woody and herbaceous mono and di cotyledonous plants. Such stunting or dwarfing may be useful, for example, in peanuts, cereals and soya bean where reduction in stem growth may reduce the risk of lodging and may also permit increased amounts of fertiliser to be applied. The stunting of woody species is useful in controlling the growth of undergrowth under power lines etc. Compounds which induce stunting or dwarfing may also be useful in modifying the stem growth of sugar cane thereby increasing the concentration of sugar in the cane at harvest, in sugar cane, the flowering and ripening may be controllable by applying the compounds. Stunting of peanuts can assist in harvesting.Growth retardation of grasses can help maintenance of grass swards. Examples of suitable grasses areStenotaphrum secundatum St. Augustine grass , Cynosurus cristatus, Lolium multiflorum and perenne, Agrostis tenuis, Cynodon dactylon Bermuda grass , Dactylis glomerata, Festuca spp. e.g. Festuca rubra and Poa spp. e.g. Poa pratense . The compounds may stunt grasses without significant phytotoxic effects and without deleteriously affecting the appearance particularly the colour of the grass . this makes such compounds attractive for use on ornamental lawns and on grass verges. They may also have an effect on flower head emergence in for example grasses. The compounds can also stunt weed species present in the grasses examples of such weed species are sedges e.g. Cyperus spp. and dicotyledonous weeds e.g. daisy, plantain, knotweed, speedwell, thistle, docks and ragwort . The growth of non crop vegetation e.g. weeds or cover vegetation can be retarded thus assisting in the maintenance of plantation and field crops. In fruit orchards, particularly orchards subject to soil erosion, the presence of grass cover is important.However excessive grass growth requires substantial maintenance. The compounds of the invention could be useful in this situation as they could restrict growth without killing the plants which would lead to soil erosion at the same time the degree of competition for nutrients and water by the grass, would be reduced and this could result in an increased yield of fruit. In some cases, one grass species may be stunted more than another grass species this selectivity could be useful for example for improving the quality of a sward by preferential suppression of the growth of undesirable species. The dwarfing may also be useful in miniaturising ornamental, household, garden and nursery plants e.g.poinsettias, chrysanthemums, carnations, tulips and daffodils . As indicated above, the compounds can also be used to stunt woody species. This property can be used to control hedgerows or to shape fruit trees e.g. apples . Some coniferous trees are not significantly stunted by the compounds so the compounds could be useful in controlling undesirable vegetation in conifer nurseries. The plant growth regulating effect may as implied above manifest itself in an increase in crop yield. In the potato, vine control in the field and inhibition of sprouting in the store may be possible. Other plant growth regulating effects caused by the compounds include alteration of leaf angle and promotion of tillering in monocotyledonous plants. The former effect may be useful for example in altering the leaf orientation of, for example, potato crops thereby letting more light into the crops and inducing an increase in phytosynthesis and tuber weight. By increasing tillering in monocotyledonous crops e.g. rice , the number of flowering shoots per unit area may be increased thereby increasing the overall grain yield of such crops. In grass swards an increase in tillering could lead to a denser sward which may result in increased resilience in wear. The treatment of plants with the compounds can lead to the leaves developing a darker green colour. The compounds may inhibit, or at least delay, the flowering of sugar beet and thereby may increase sugar yield. They may also reduce the size of sugar beet without reducing significantly the sugar yield thereby enabling an increase in planting density to be made.Similarly in other root crops e.g. turnip, swede, mangold, parsnip, beetroot, yam and cassava it may be possible to increase the planting density. The compounds could be useful in restricting the vegetative growth of cotton thereby leading to an increase in cotton yield. The compounds may be useful in rendering plants resistant to stress since the compounds can delay the emergence of plants grown from seed, shorten stem height and delay flowering these properties could be useful in preventing frost damage in countries where there is significant snow cover in the winter since then the treated plants would remain below snow cover during the cold weather. Further the compounds may cause drought or cold resistance in certain plants. tJhen applied as seed treatments at low rates the compounds can have a growth stimulating effect on plants. In carrying out the plant growth regulating method of the invention, the amount of compound to be applied to regulate the growth of plants will depend upon a number of factors, for example the particular compound selected for use, and the identity of the plant species whose growth is to be regulated. However, in general an application rate of 0.1 to 15, preferably 0.1 to 5, kg per hectare is used. However, on certain plants even application rates within these ranges may give undesired phytotoxic effects. Routine tests may be necessary to determine the best rate of application of a specific compound for any specific purpose for which it is suitable. The compounds may be used as such for fungicidal or plant growth regulating purposes but are more conveniently formulated into compositions for such usage. The invention thus provides also a fungicidal or plant growth regulating composition comprising a compound which is an enantiomer of the invention or an ester, salt or complex thereof, and a carrier or diluent. The invention also provides a method of combating fungi, which comprises applying to a plant1 to seed of a plant or to the locus of a plant or seed, a compound which is an enantiomer of the invention or an ester, salt or complex thereof. The invention also provides a method of regulating plant growth which comprises applying to a plant, to seed of a plant or to the locus of a plant or seed, a compound which is an enantiomer of the invention or an ester, salt or complex thereof as hereinbefore defined. The compounds can be applied in a number of ways, for example they can be formulated or unformulated, directly to the foliage of a plant, to seeds or to other medium in which plants are growing or are to be planted, or they can be sprayed on, dusted on or applied as a cream or paste formulation, or they can be applied as a vapour. Application can be to any part of the plant, bush or tree, for example to the foliage, stems, branches or roots, or to soil surrounding the roots, or to the seed before it is planted. The term plant as used herein includes seedlings, bushes and trees. Furthermore, the fungicidal method of the invention includes preventative, protectant, prophylactic and eradicant treatment. The compounds are preferably used for agricultural and horticultural purposes in the form of a composition.The type of composition used in any instance will depend upon the particular purpose envisaged. The compositions may be in the form of dusting powders or granules comprising the active ingredient and a solid diluent or carrier, for example fillers such as kaolin, bentonite, kieselguhr, dolomite, calcium carbonate, talc, powdered magnesia, Fuller s earth, gypsum, Hewitt s earth, diatomaceous earth and China clay.Such granules can be preformed granules suitable for application to the soil without further treatment. These granules can be made either by impregnating pellets of filler with the active ingredient or by pelleting a mixture of the active ingredient and powdered filler.Compositions for dressing seed, for example, may comprise an agent for example a mineral oil for assisting the adhesion of the composition to the seed alternatively the active ingredient can be formulated for seed dressing purposes using an organic solvent for example N methylpyrrolidone or dimethylformamide . The compositions may also be in the form of dispersible powders, granules or grains comprising a wetting agent to facilitate the disperion in liquids of the powder or grains which may contain also fillers and suspending agents. The aqueous dispersions or emulsions may be prepared by dissolving the active ingredient s in an organic solvent optionally containing wetting, dispersing or emulsifying agent s and then adding the mixture to water which may also contain wetting, dispersing or emulsifying agents . Suitable organic solvents are ethylene dichloride, isopropyl alcohol, propylene glycol, diacetone alcohol, toluene, kerosene, methylnaphthalene, the xylenes, trichloroethylene, furfuryl alcohol, tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol, and glycol ethers e.g. 2 ethoxyethanol and 2 butoxyethanol . The compositions to be used as sprays may also be in the form of aerosols wherein the formulation is held in a container under pressure in the presence of a propellant, e.g. fluorotrichloromethane or dichlorodifluoromethane. The compounds can be mixed in the dry state with a pyrotechnic mixture to form a composition suitable for generating in enclosed spaces a smoke containing the compounds. Alternatively, the compounds may be used in a microencapsulated form. By including suitable additives, for example additives for improving the distribution, adhesive power and resistance to rain on treated surfaces, the different compositions can be better adapted for various utilities. The compounds can be used as mixtures with fertilisers e.g. nitrogen , potassium or phosphoruscontaining fertilisers . Compositions comprising only granules of fertiliser incorporating, for example coated with, the compound, are preferred. Such granules suitably contain up to 25 by weight of the compound. The invention therefore also provides a fertiliser composition comprising a compound as hereinbefore defined. The compositions may also be in the form of liquid preparations for use as dips or sprays which are generally aqueous dispersions or emulsions containing the active ingredient in the presence of one or more surfactants e.g.wetting agent s , dispersing agent s , emulsifying agent s or suspending agent s . These agents can be cationic, anionic or non anionic agents. Suitable cationic agents are quaternary ammonium compounds, for example cetyltrimethylammonium bromide. Suitable anionic agents are soaps, salts of aliphatic monoesters of sulphuric acid for example sodium lauryl sulphate , and salts of sulphonated aromatic compounds for example sodium dodecylbenzenesulphonate, sodium calcium or ammonium lignosulphonate, butylnaphthalene sulphonate, and a mixture of sodium diisopropyl and triisopropyl naphthalene sulphonates . Suitable non ionic agents are the condensation products of ethylene oxide with fatty alcohols such as oleyl or cetyl alcohol, or with alkyl phenols such as octyl or nonyl phenol and octylcresol. Other non ionic agents are the partial esters derived from long chain fatty acids and hexitol anhydrides, the condensation products of the said partial esters with ethylene oxide, and the lecithins. Suitable suspending agents are hydrophilic colloids for example polyvinylpyrrolidone and sodium carboxymethylcellulose , and the vegetable gums for example gum acacia and gum tragacanth . The compositions for use as aqueous dispersions or emulsions are generally supplied in the form of a concentrate containing a high proportion of the active ingredient s , the concentrate to be diluted with water before use. These concentrates often should be able to withstand storage for prolonged periods and after such storage be capable of dilution with water in order to form aqueous preparations which remain homogenous for a sufficient time to enable them to be applied by conventional spray equipment. The concentrates may conveniently contain up to 95 , suitably 10 85 , for example 25 60 , by weight of the active ingredient s .These concentrates suitably contain organic acids e.g. alkaryl or aryl sulphonic acids such as xylene sulphonic acid or dodecylbenzenesulphonic acid since the presence of such acids can increase the solubility of the active ingredient s in the polar solvents often used in the concentrates. The concentrates suitably contain also a high proportion of surfactants so that sufficiently stable emulsions in water can be obtained. After dilution to form aqueous preparations, such preparations may contain varying amounts of the active ingredient s depending upon the intended purpose, but an aqueous preparation containing 0.0005 or 0.01 to 10 by weight of active ingredient s may be used. The compositions of this invention can comprise also other compound s having biological activity, e.g.compounds having similar or complementary fungicidal or plant growth regulating activity or compounds having herbicidal or insecticidal activity. The other fungicidal compound can be for example one which is capable of combating ear diseases of cereals e.g. wheat such as Septoria, Gibberella andHelminthosporium spp., seed and soil borne diseases and downy and powdery mildews on grapes and powdery mildew and scab on apple etc. These mixtures of fungicides can have a broader spectrum of activity than the compound of general formula I alone further the other fungicide can have a synergistic effect on the fungicidal activity of the compound of general formula I .Examples of the other fungicidal compound are imazalil, benomyl, carbendazim, thiophanate methyl, captafol, captan, sulphur, triforine, dodemorph, tridemorph, pyrazophos, furalaxyl, ethirimol, dimethirimol, bupirimate, chlorothalonil, vinclozolin, procymidone, iprodione, metalaxyl, fosetyl aluminium, carboxin, oxycarboxin, fenarimol, nuarimol, fenfuram, methfuroxam, nitrotalisopropyl, triadimefon, thiabendazole, etridiazole, triadimenol, biloxazol, dithianon, binapacryl, quinomethionate, guazatine, dodine, fentin acetate, fentin hydroxide, dinocap, folpet, diclofluanid, ditalimphos, kitazin, fenpropemorph, cycloheximide, dichlobutrazol, a dithiocarbamate, a copper compound, a mercury compound,DPX 3217, RH 2161, Chevron RE 20615, CGA 64250, CGA 54251 and RO 14 3169. The compounds of general I can be mixed with soil, peat or other rooting media for the protection of plants against seed borne, soil borne or foliar fungal diseases. Suitable insecticides are pirimor, croneton, dimethoate, metasystox and formothion. The other plant growth regulating compound can be one which controls weeds or seedhead formation, improves the level or longevity of the plant growth regulating activity of the compounds of general formula I , selectively controls the growth of the less desirable plants e.g. grasses or causes the compound of general formula I to act faster or slower as a plant growth regulating agent. Some of these other agents will be herbicides. Examples of suitable agents are the gibberellins e.g GA3, GA4 or GA7 , the auxins e.g. indoleacetic acid, indolebutyric acid, naphthoxy acetic acid or naphthylacetic acid , the cytokinins e.g. kinetin, diphenylurea, benzimidazole, benzyladenine orBAP , phenoxyacetic acids e.g. 2,4 D or MCPA , substituted benzoic acids e.g. TIBA , morphactins e.g.chlorfluorecol , maleic hydrazide, glyphosate, glyphosine, long chain fatty alcohols and acids e.g. OffShoot 0 or Off Shoot T , dikegulac, Sustar, Embark, substituted quaternary ammonium and phosphonium compounds e.g. ccc or Phosfon D , Ethrel, carbetamide, Racuza,Alar, asulam, abscissic acid, isopyrimol, RH531, hydroxybenzonitriles e.g. bromoxynil , Avenge, Suffix, Lontrel or thiocarbamates e.g. Eptam . The following Examples illustrate the invention the temperatures are given in degrees Centigrade . EXAMPLE 1 This Example illustrates the preparation of 1 1,2,4 Triazol l yl 2,3 diphenyl propan 2 ol Compound No 1 of Table I Benzyl chloride 0.2 mol was dissolved in dry diethyl ether 200 ml and added dropwise to magnesium turnings 0.22 g atoms . After all the magnesium had reacted, the solution was refluxed for 1 hour and cooled to room temperature. Phenacyl chloride 0.1 mol in dry diethyl ether 100 ml was added dropwise over 1 hour at such a rate as to maintain gentle reflux. The solution was then refluxed for 2 hours, and cooled to room temperature the mixture was poured into, ice and the complex decomposed with ammonium chloride solution.The ethereal solution was washed several times with water 2 x 200 ml , dried Na2SO4 , and the solvent removed in vacuo to give, as a colourless oil, the crude chlorohydrin which was dissolved in dimethyl formamide 80 ml and a solution of sodium triazole prepared from sodium 0.1 g atoms in methanol 40 ml and 1,2,4 triazole 0.1 mol added dropwise at room temperature. After stirring at room temperature for 2 hours, the solution was warmed at 50 for 3 hours. The solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue poured into water to give a crystalline solid which was recrystallised from ethanol petroleum ether to give the title compound, m.p. 124.5 . EXAMPLE 2 This Example illustrates the preparation of l 1,2, 4 Triazol l yl 2 phenyl 3 p fluorophenyl propan 2 ol Compound No 3 of Table I p Fluorobenzyl chloride 0.1 mol in dry diethyl ether 100 ml was added dropwise to magnesium turnings 0.11 g atoms and the solution stirred vigorously until refluxing occurred. Xhen all the magnesium had reacted, the solution was refluxed for a further 1 hour and then cooled to room temperature. Phenacyl chloride 0.05 mol in dry diethyl ether 50 ml was added dropwise to the solution over 1 hour at such a rate as to maintain gentle reflux. The mixture was refluxed for 2 hours, cooled to room temperature and the mixture poured into ice ammonium chloride solution to decompose the complex.The ethereal solution was washed several times with water 2 x 200 ml , dried Na2SO4 , and the solvent removed in vacuo to give, as a colourless oil, the crude chlorohydrin. The latter was dissolved in dimethyl formamide 40 ml and a solution of sodium triazole Prepared from sodium 0.05 g atoms in methanol 20 ml and 1,2,4 triazole 0.05 mol added dropwise at room temperature. After stirring at room temperature for 2 hours, the solution was warmed at 50 for 3 hours. The solvent was removed in vacuo and the mixture poured into water to give a cryystalline solid which was recrystallised from petroleum ether chloroform to give the title compound, m.p. ll680. EXAMPLE 3 This Example illustrates the preparation of 1,1 Diphenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl ethan 1 ol Compound No 17 of Table I Stage 1. Bromobenzene 0.2 mol, 31.4 g in sodium dry diethyl ether 200 ml was added dropwise to magnesium 0.22 gram atoms, 5.3 g . After all the magnesium had reacted, phenacyl chloride 0.1 mol, 15.5 g in diethyl ether 100 ml was added dropwise and the solution stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was poured into saturated ammonium chloride solution, washed with water 3 x 150 ml , and dried Na2504 . Removal of the ether gave a pale yellow oil which solidified on standing. Recrystallisation from petroleum ether 60S00 gave l,l diphenyl 2 chloro ethan l ol 60 as a white crystalline solid, m.p. 56 57 . Stage 2. 1,2,4 Triazole 0.03 mol, 2.07 g was added portionwise to a suspension of sodium hydride 0.03 mol, 0.72 g in DMF 30 ml and the solution stirred until effervescence ceased. 1,2 Diphenyl 2 chloro ethan l ol 0.015 mol, 2.94g in dimethylformamide DMF 10 ml was added dropwise and the solution warmed at 1000 for six hours. The reaction mixture was poured into water and a white solid crystallised out. This was filtered off, washed with water, dried, and recrystallised from ethanol to give the title compound as a white crystalline solid, m.p. 128 129 . EXAMPLE 4 This Example illustrates the preparation of 2 Methyl 4 phenyl 5 1,2, 4 triazol l yl pentan 4 ol Compound No 31 of Table I Stage 1.The Grignard reagent generated from isobutyl bromide 0.1 mol, 13.7 g in sodium dry diethyl ether 50 ml and magnesium turnings 0.11 g atoms 2.6 g was added dropwise to a solution of phenacyl chloride 0.05 mol, 7.7 g in sodium dry diethyl ether 100 ml so that gentle reflux was maintained. The solution was then stirred at room temperature for 1 hour and the magnesium complex destroyed by pouring into a saturated ammonium chloride solution 200 ml . The ethereal extract was washed with water 3 x 150 ml and dried Na2S04 . Removal of the solvent gave a colourless liquid which distilled at reduced pressure to give 2 methyl 4 phenyl 5 chloropentan 4 ol 708 , b.p. 86 88 0.01 mm Hg.Stage 2. 1,2,4 Triazole 0.03 mol, 2.07 g was added portionwise to 100 sodium hydride 0.03 mol, 0.72 g in dry DMF 30 ml and stirred at room temperature until the effervescence ceased. 2 Methyl 4 phenyl 5 chloro pentan 4ol 0.01 mol, 2.1 g in dry DMF 10 ml was added dropwise at room temperature and then the solution was stirred at 100 for 6 hours. On cooling to room temperature the solution was poured into water to precipitate out a solid which was recrystallised from petroleum 60 800 chloroform giving the title compound 60 as a white crystalline solid, m.p. 94 95 . EXAMPLE 5 This Example illustrates the preparation of 1 1,2, 4 Triazol l yl 2 o chiorophenyl 2 p fluorophenyl ethan 2 ol Compound No 45 of Table I A solution of dimethyl oxosulphonium methylide was prepared under nitrogen from sodium hydride 0.03 mol and powdered trimethyl oxosulphonium iodide 0.03 mol in dry dimethylsulphoxide DIM50 30 ml . A solution of o chlorophenyl p fluorophenyl ketone 0.025 mol in DMSO 10 ml was added dropwise at room temperature. The solution was then heated at 500 for 1.5 hours, cooled to room temperature and poured into water. The solution was extracted with diethyl ether 100 ml , washed with water 3 x 100 ml , and dried over anhydrous sodium sulphate.Removal of the solvent gave l o chlorophenyl l p fluorophenyl ethylene oxide 90 as a colourless liquid. 1,2,4 Triazole 0.04 mol was added portionwise to sodium hydride 0.04 mol in DMF 40 ml and the solution stirred at room temperature until effervescence ceased. 1 o Chlorophenyl l p fluorophenyl ethylene oxide 0.02 mol in DMF 10 ml was addred dropwise and the solution stirred at 800 for 4 hours. The solution was poured into water and triturated with petroleum ether to give a white crystalline solid which was filtered off and dried. Recrystallisation from petroleum ether 60 800 methylene chloride gave the title compound 708 as a white crystalline stolid, m.p. 115 116 . EXAMPLE 6 This Example illustrates the preparation of 2,2 Dimethyl 3 2 methoxybenzyl 4 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl butan 3 ol Compound No 130 of Table I Stage 1. Potassium t butoxide 19 g was dissolved in dimethylsulphoxide 200 ml, dried by distilling from calcium hydride and sodamide and pinacolone 15 g freshly distilled from calcium hydride was added under argon to give a yellow solution. o Methoxyphenyl iodide 10 g was then added and a brown colour rapidly developed. The solution was stirred for 1.5 hours before pouring into water 1 litre , acidifying the mixture with 2M hydrochloric acid and extracting it with diethyl ether.Evaporation of the dried MgSO4 ethereal solution gave a yellow liquid 11.8 g b.p. 88 930C O.9 mm. The distillate solidified to give 2,2 dimethyl 4 o methoxyphenyl butan 3 one 6 g .Stage 2. Thioanisole 3.3 g was added to diazobicyclooctane 3.5 g in dry tetrahydrofuran THF under argon and the colourless solution was cooled in an ice salt bath. 1.6M butyl lithium solution 20 ml in hexane was then added over 10 minutes at 0 to 2 C. After stirring the yellow solution for 15 minutes, a solid was precipitated.The mixture was stirred for a further 45 minutes in the ice bath and then it was allowed to warm up to room temperature. The mixture was then cooled in the ice bath and a solution of the product 5 g of stage 1 in dry THF 25 ml was added at 0 to 50C. then the addition was complete, the resultant yellow solution was allowed to stand overnight, poured into water, acidified with 2Mhydrochloric acid and extracted with diethyl ether. The ethereal solution was washed well with water, dried MgS04 and evaporated to give a yellow liquid 8.8 g which solidified on standing. Recrystallisation from petroleum ether 60 800 gave 2,2 dimethyl 3 hydroxy 3 o methoxybenzyl 4 thiophenylbutane 3.1 g , m.p. 74 750Cl Stage 3. The product 2.5 g of Stage 2 was added to a stirred suspension of trimethyl oxonium tetrafluoroborate 1.3 g in methylene chloride 25 ml . After about 1 hour a clear solution was obtained.The solvent was then removed on the rotavaporator to give a pale organe gum, which was dissolved in dry DMF 10 ml and the solution added to a solution of 1,2,4 triazole sodium salt 1.2 g in DMF 15 ml . EThe solution was prepared by washing sodium hydride with dry diethyl ether, suspending it in dry DMF and adding the triazole . The reaction mixture was then stirred at 120 C for 2.5 hours. The reaction mixture was then quenched by pouring into water 100 ml and the emulsion was extracted with diethyl ether 3 x 50 ml . The ethereal solution was washed well with water, dried MgS04 and evaporated to give a pale yellow liquid. The mixture was subjected to dry column chromatography on silica eluting with diethyl ether to give a colourless liquid which solidified on trituration with diethyl ether. Recrystallation from petroleum ether 60 80 gave the title compound 0.5g 23 , m.p. 113 116 . EXAMPLE 7 This Example illustrates the preparation of 1 1,2,4 Triazol 1 yl 2 2 chloro 4 methoxy phenyl 2 4 fluoro phenyl ethan 2 ol Compound No 294 of Table I Stage 1. 3 chloroanisole 0.1 mol was added dropwise to a suspension of aluminium chloride 0.11 mol in carbon disulphide 40 ml at room temperature and stirred for 30 minutes until it had dissolved. The mixture was cooled in ice and 4 fluorobenzoyl chloride 0.1 mol added dropwise.After complete addition the solution was stirred for 1 hour at room temperature and refluxed for 1 hour. The solution was poured into ice 200 ml containing CHC1 20 ml , extracted with ether 200 ml , washed with water 3 x 150 ml , and dried over anhydrous sodium sulphonate. Removal of the solvent gave an oil which was purified by column chromatography silica K60 eluted with toluene petrol 1 1 to give 2 chloro 4 methoxy phenyl 4fluorophenyl ketone 40S as colourless crystalline solid m.p. 31 . Stage 2. A solution of dimethyl sulphonium methylide was prepared under nitrogen at 0 C from sodium hydride 0.03 mol using 80 suspension in oil , trimethyl sulphonium iodide 0.03 mol in dry dimethyl sulphoxide 30 ml and dry tetrahydrofuran 30 ml . A solution of 2 chloro 4methoxyphenyl 4 fluorophenyl ketone 0.02 mol in tetrahydrofuran 20 ml was added at 0 , stirred for 30 minutes at 0 , and allowed to warm up to toom temperature.The solution was poured into water, extracted with diethyl ether 150 ml , washed with water 3 x 100 ml and dried over anhydrous mangnesium sulphate. Removal of the solvent gave l 2 chloro 4 methoxy pbenyl l 4 fluorophenyl ethylene oxide 90 as a colourless oil. Stage 3. 1,2,4 Triazole 0.03 mol was added portionwise to sodium hydride 0.03 mol in dimethyl formamide 30 ml and the solution stirred at room temperature until the effervescence ceased. 1 2 chloro 4 methoxyl phenyl 1 4 fluorophenyl ethylene oxide 0.015 mol in dimethyl formamide 10 ml was added dropwise and the solution stirred at 800 for 4 hours. The solution was poured into water and triturated with petroleum ether to an off white solid which was filtered off and dried. Recrystallisation from petroleum ether chloroform gave the title compound 658 as a white crystalline solid m.p. l38 140. EXAMPLE 8 This Example illustrates the preparation of 1 1,2,4 Triazol l yl 2 4 chlorophenyl 3,3 dimethyl butan 2 ol Compound No 196 of Table I Stage 1. Trimethyl acetonitrile 0.1 mol in dry tetrahydrofuran 50 ml was added dropwise with stirringto the Grignard reagent prepared from 4 chloro iodobenzene 0.11 mol and magnesium turnings 0.11 g atoms in sodium dry ether 50 ml at such a rate as to retain gentle reflux. The solution was refluxed for 4 hours, cooled to room temperature, and water 40 ml added carefully. 2NH2S04 50 ml was added and the ether solution washed with water 3 x 100 ml and dried over anhydrous magnesium sulphate.Removal of the solvent gave a yellow oil which was distilled at the water pump to give tertiary butyl 4 chlorophenyl ketone 40 as a colourless liquid b.p. 116 128 15 mm Hg. Stage 2. A solution of dimethyl oxosulphonium methylide was prepared under nitrogen from sodium hydride 0.03 mol and powdered trimethyl oxosulphonium iodide 0.03 mol in dry dimethyl sulphoxide 40 ml . A solution of 4chlorophenyl tertiary butyl ketone 0.025 mol in dry dimethyl sulphoxide 10 ml was added dropwise at room temperature and the solution heated at 500C for 2.5 hours.After cooling to room temperature the solution was extracted with ether 150 ml , washed with water and dried over anhydrous sodium sulphate. Removal of the solvent gave l 4 chlorophenyl l t butyl ethylene oxide 95 as a colourless liquid.Stage 3. 1,2,4 Triazole 0.04 mol was added portionwise to sodium hydride 0.04 mol in dimethyl formamide 40 ml and the solution stirred at room temperature until the effervescence ceased. l 4 chlorophenyl 1 t butyl ethylene oxide 0.02 mol in dimethyl formamide 10 ml was added dropwise and the solution stirred at 60 for 3 hours. The solution was poured into water and triturated with petroleum ether to give a white solid which recrystallised from 60 80 petroleum ether gave the title compound 65 m.p. 70 3 . EXAMPLE 9 This Example illustrates the preparation of 1 1,2,4 Triazol l yl bis 2 4 fluorophenyl 2 methoxyethaneStage 1. A solution of dimethyl oxosulphonium methylide was prepared under nitrogen from sodium hydride 0.1 mol and powdered trimethyl oxosulphonium iodide 0.1 mol in dry dimethyl sulphoxide 100 ml . A solution of 4,4 difluorobenzophenone 0.08 mol in dimethyl sulphoxide 40 ml was added dropwise at room temperature and the solution heated at 500 for 2 hours. After cooling to room temperature the solution was extracted with diethyl ether 400 ml , washed with water 3 x 250 ml , and dried over anhydrous sodium sulphate. Removal of the solvent gave 1,l bis 4 fluorophenyl ethylene oxide 95 as a colourless oil.Stage 2. 1,2,4 Triazole 0.1 mol was added portionwise to sodium hydride 0.1 mol in dimethyl formamide 100 ml and the solution stirred at room temperature until the effervescence ceased. l,l bis 4 fluorophenyl ethylene oxide 0.05 mol in dimethyl formamide 25 ml was added dropwise and the solution stirred at 80 for 4 hours. The solution was poured into water and triturated with petroleum ether to give a white crystalline solid which was filtered off and dried. Recrystallisation from petroleum ether 60 800 chloroform gave l 1,2,4 triazol l yl bis 2 4 fluorophenyl ethan 2 ol 70 as a white crystalline solid m.p. l7010. Stage 3. Sodium hydride 0.02 mol was suspended in dry tetrahydrofuran 50 ml and l 1,2,4 triazol l yl bis 2 4 fluorophenyl ethan 2 ol 0.02 mol added portionwise at room temperature. The solution was warmed to 500 to complete the reaction. After cooling to room temperature methyl iodide 0.04 mol was added dropwise at 20 and the reaction stirred at room temperature for 24 hours. The reaction was poured into water 100 ml , extracted with diethyl ether 150 ml , washed with water 2 x 100 ml , and dried over anhydrous sodium sulphate. Removal of the solvent gave an oil which solidified on standing.Recrystallisation from petroleum ether chloroform gave the title compound 90 as a white crystalline solid. m.p. 100 EXAMPLE 10 An emulsifiable concentrate was made up by mixing the ingredients, and stirring the mixture until all the constituents were dissolved.Compound of Example 1 10 Ethylene dichloride 40 Calcium dodecylbenzenesulphate 5 Lubrol L 10 Aromasol11 H 35 EXAMPLE 11 A composition in the form of grains readily dispersible in a liquid, e.g. water, was prepared by grinding together the first three ingredients in the presence of added water and then mixing in the sodium acetate. The resultant mixture was dried and passed through a BritishStandard mesh sieve, size 44 100, to obtain the desired size of grains.Compound of Example 2 50 Dispersol T 25 Lubrol APN5 1.5 Sodium acetate 23.5 EXAMPLE 12 The ingredients were all ground together to produce a powder formulation readily dispersible in liquids.Compound of Example 3 45 Dispersol T 5 Lissapol NX 0.5 Cellofas B600 2 Sodium acetate 47.5 EXAMPLE 13 The active ingredient was dissolved in a solvent and the resultant liquid was sprayed on to the granules ofChina clay. The solvent was then allowed to evaporate to produce a granular composition.Compound of Example 4 5 China clay granules 95 EXAMPLE 14 A composition suitable for use as a seed dressing was prepared by mixing the three ingredients.Compound of Example 1 50 Mineral oil 2 China clay 48 EXAMPLE 15 A dusting powder was prepared by mixing the active ingredient with talc.Compound of Example 2 5 Talc 95 EXAMPLE 16 A Col formulation was prepared by ball milling the constituents set out below and then forming an aqueous suspension of the ground mixture with water.Compound of Example 3 40 Dispersol T 10 Lubrol APN5 1 Water EXAMPLE 17 A dispersible powder formulation was made by mixing together the ingredients set out below and then grinding the mixture until all were thoroughly mixed.Compound of Example 4 25 Aerosol OT B 2t Dispersol A.C. 5 China clay 28 Silica 40 EXAMPLE 18 This Example illustrates the preparation of a dispersible powder formulation. The ingredients were mixed and the mixture then ground in a comminution mill.Compound of Example 1 25 Perminal BX 1 Dispersol T 5 Polyvinylpyrrolidone 10 Silica 25 China clay 34 EXAMPLE 19 The ingredients set out below were formulated into a dispersible powder by mixing then grinding the ingredients.Compound of Example 2 25 Aerosol OT B 2 Dispersol A 5 China clay 68 In Examples 10 to 19 the proportions of the ingredients given are by weight. There now follows an explanation of the compositions or substances represented by the various Trade Marks andTrade Names mentioned above.LUBROL L a condensate of nonyl phenol I mole with ethylene oxide 13 moles AROMASOL H a solvent mixture of alkylbenzenesDISPERSOL T AC a mixture of sodium sulphate and a condensate of formaldehyde with sodium naphthalene sulphonateLUBROL APN5 a condensate of nonyl phenol 1 mole with naphthalene oxide 5.5 moles CELLOFAS B600 a sodium carboxymethyl cellulose thickenerLISSAPOL NX a condensate of nonyl phenol 1 mole with ethylene oxide 8 moles AEROSOL OT B dioctyl sodium sulphosuccinatePERMINAL BX a sodium alkyl naphthalne sulphonate EXAMPLE 20 The compounds were tested against a variety of foliar fungal diseases of plants. The technique employed was as follows. The plants were grown in John Innes Potting Compost No 1 or 2 in 4 cm diameter minipots. A layer of fine sand was placed at the bottom of the pots containing the dicotyledonous plants to facilitate uptake of test compound by the roots. The test compounds were formulated either by bead milling with aqueous Dispersol T or as a solution in acetone or acetone ethanol which was diluted to the required concentration immediately before use. For the foliage diseases1 suspensions 100 ppm active ingredient were sprayed on to the soil. Exceptions to this were the tests on Botrytis cinerea, Plasmopara viticola and Venturia inaequalis. The sprays were applied to maximum retention and the root drenches to a final concentration equivalent to approximately 40 ppm a.i. dry soil.Tween 20, to give a final concentration of 0.05 , was added when the sprays were applied to cereals. For most of the tests the compound was applied to the soil roots and to the foliage by spraying one or two days before the plant was inoculated with the diseases. An exception was the test on Erysiphe graminis in which the plants were inoculated 24 hours before treatment. After inoculation, the plants were put into an appropriate environment to allow infection to take place and then incubated until the disease was ready for assessment. The period between inoculation and assessment varied from four to fourteen days according to the disease and environment. The disease control was recorded by the following grading 4 no disease 3 trace 5 of disease on untreated plants 2 6 25 of disease on untreated plants 1 26 598 of disease on untreated plants O 60 100 of disease on untreated plants The results are shown in Table II.A dash in the table thus signifies that no test against the disease was conducted. TABLE II EMI57.1 COMPOUND SEP PUCCINIA SEP ERYSIPHE SEP PIRICULARIA SEP PLASMOPARA SEP PHYTOPHTHORA SEP BOTRYTIS SEP CERCOSPORA SEP VENTURIA tb SEP NUMBER SEP RECONDITA SEP GRAMINIS SEP ORYZAE SEP VITICOLA SEP INFESTANS SEP CINEREA SEP ARACHIDICOLA SEP INAEQUALIS tb SEP WHEAT SEP BARLEY SEP RICE SEP VINE SEP TOMATO SEP TOMATO SEP PEANUT SEP APPLE tb SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 3 tb SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 3 tb SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 3 tb SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 4 tb SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP SEP 8 SEP 4 SEP SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 3 tb SEP 9 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 3 tb SEP 10 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 11 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 12 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 13 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 3 tb SEP 14 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 tb SEP 15 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 3 tb TABLE II continued EMI58.1 COMPOUND SEP PUCCINIA SEP ERYSIPHE SEP PIRICULARIA SEP PLASMOPARA SEP PHYTOPHTHORA SEP BOTRYTIS SEP CERCOSPORA SEP VENTURIA tb SEP NUMBER SEP RECONDITA SEP GRAMINIS SEP ORYZAE SEP VITICOLA SEP INFESTANS SEP CINEREA SEP ARACHIDICOLA SEP INAEQUALIS tb SEP WHEAT SEP BARLEY SEP RICE SEP VINE SEP TOMATO SEP TOMATO SEP PEANUT SEP APPLE tb SEP 16 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 0 tb SEP 17 SEP SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 18 SEP 4 SEP SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 3 tb SEP 19 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 20 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 3 tb SEP 21 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 22 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 23 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 24 SEP SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 2 tb SEP 25 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 26 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 27 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 28 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP SEP SEP 29 SEP SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb TABLE II continued EMI59.1 COMPOUND SEP PUCCINIA SEP ERYSIPHE SEP PIRICULARIA SEP PLASMOPARA SEP PHYTOPHTHORA SEP BOTRYTIS SEP CERCOSPORA SEP VENTURIA tb SEP NUMBER SEP RECONDITA SEP GRAMINIS SEP ORYZAE SEP VITICOLA SEP INFESTANS SEP CINEREA SEP ARACHIDICOLA SEP INAEQUALIS tb SEP WHEAT SEP BARLEY SEP RICE SEP VINE SEP TOMATO SEP TOMATO SEP PEANUT SEP APPLE tb SEP 30 SEP SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 31 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 4 tb SEP 32 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 0 SEP SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 34 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 35 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 40 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 43 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 44 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 45 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 46 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 51 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 52 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 53 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 54 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb TABLE II continued EMI60.1 COMPOUND SEP PUCCINIA SEP ERYSIPHE SEP PIRICULARIA SEP PLASMOPARA SEP PHYTOPHTHORA SEP BOTRYTIS SEP CERCOSPORA SEP VENTURIA tb SEP NUMBER SEP RECONDITA SEP GRAMINIS SEP ORYZAE SEP VITICOLA SEP INFESTANS SEP CINEREA SEP ARACHIDICOLA SEP INAEQUALIS tb SEP WHEAT SEP BARLEY SEP RICE SEP VINE SEP TOMATO SEP TOMATO SEP PEANUT SEP APPLE tb SEP 55 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 57 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 58 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 3 tb SEP 59 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 3 tb SEP 60 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb TABLE II continued EMI61.1 COMPOUND SEP PUCCINIA SEP ERYSIPHE SEP PIRICULARIA SEP PLASMOPARA SEP PHYTOPHTHORA SEP BOTRYTIS SEP CERCOSPORA SEP VENTURIA tb SEP NUMBER SEP RECONDITA SEP GRAMINIS SEP ORYZAE SEP VITICOLA SEP INFESTANS SEP CINEREA SEP ARACHIDICOLA SEP INAEQUALIS tb SEP WHEAT SEP BARLEY SEP RICE SEP VINE SEP TOMATO SEP GRAPE SEP PEANUT SEP APPLE tb SEP 62 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 64 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 3 tb SEP 65 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 4 tb SEP 66 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 67 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 69 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 70 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 71 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 72 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 4 tb SEP 75 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 81 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 82 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 83 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb TABLE II continued EMI62.1 COMPOUND SEP PUCCINIA SEP ERYSIPHE SEP PIRICULARIA SEP PLASMOPARA SEP PHYTOPHTHORA SEP BOTRYTIS SEP CERCOSPORA SEP VENTURIA tb SEP NUMBER SEP RECONDITA SEP GRAMINIS SEP ORYZAE SEP VITICOLA SEP INFESTANS SEP CINEREA SEP ARACHIDICOLA SEP INAEQUALIS tb SEP WHEAT SEP BARLEY SEP RICE SEP VINE SEP TOMATO SEP GRAPE SEP PEANUT SEP APPLE tb SEP 85 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 86 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 3 SEP SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 87 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 3 SEP SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 89 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 90 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 3 tb SEP 91 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 97 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 102 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 1 SEP SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 4 tb SEP 103 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 104 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 4 tb SEP 105 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 107 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 108 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb TABLE II continued EMI63.1 COMPOUND SEP PUCCINIA SEP ERYSIPHE SEP PIRICULARIA SEP PLASMOPARA SEP PHYTOPHTHORA SEP BOTRYTIS SEP CERCOSPORA SEP VENTURIA tb SEP NUMBER SEP RECONDITA SEP GRAMINIS SEP ORYZAE SEP VITICOLA SEP INFESTANS SEP CINEREA SEP ARACHIDICOLA SEP INAEQUALIS tb SEP WHEAT SEP BARLEY SEP RICE SEP VINE SEP TOMATO SEP GRAPE SEP PEANUT SEP APPLE tb SEP 109 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 110 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 111 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 2 SEP SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP 4 tb SEP 112 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 3 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 4 tb SEP 117 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 4 tb SEP 118 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 121 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 122 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb SEP 123 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 2 tb SEP 125 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 3 SEP SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 4 tb SEP 128 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 129 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 130 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 131 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb TABLE II continued EMI64.1 COMPOUND SEP PUCCINIA SEP ERYSIPHE SEP PIRICULARIA SEP PLASMOPARA SEP PHYTOPHTHORA SEP BOTRYTIS SEP CERCOSPORA SEP VENTURIA tb SEP NUMBER SEP RECONDITA SEP GRAMINIS SEP ORYZAE SEP VITICOLA SEP INFESTANS SEP CINEREA SEP ARACHIDICOLA SEP INAEQUALIS tb SEP WHEAT SEP BARLEY SEP RICE SEP VINE SEP TOMATO SEP GRAPE SEP PEANUT SEP APPLE tb SEP 132 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 4 tb SEP 133 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP SEP SEP 3 SEP 4 tb SEP 139 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 140 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 4 tb SEP 142 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 3 tb SEP 147 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 167 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 168 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP SEP SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 4 tb SEP 176 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 177 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 4 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 178 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 179 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 195 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 196 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb TABLE II continued EMI65.1 COMPOUND SEP PUCCINIA SEP ERYSIPHE SEP PIRICULARIA SEP PLASMOPARA SEP PHYTOPHTHORA SEP BOTRYTIS SEP CERCOSPORA SEP VENTURIA tb SEP NUMBER SEP RECONDITA SEP GRAMINIS SEP ORYZAE SEP VITICOLA SEP INFESTANS SEP CINEREA SEP ARACHIDICOLA SEP INAEQUALIS tb SEP WHEAT SEP BARLEY SEP RICE SEP VINE SEP TOMATO SEP GRAPE SEP PEANUT SEP APPLE tb SEP 198 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 3 SEP SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 204 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 228 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 4 tb SEP 235 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 236 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 244 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 248 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 4 tb SEP 250 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 tb SEP 251 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 252 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 253 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 254 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 255 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 3 tb SEP 256 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb TABLE II continued EMI66.1 COMPOUND SEP PUCCINIA SEP ERYSIPHE SEP PIRICULARIA SEP PLASMOPARA SEP PHYTOPHTHORA SEP BOTRYTIS SEP CERCOSPORA SEP VENTURIA tb SEP NUMBER SEP RECONDITA SEP GRAMINIS SEP ORYZAE SEP VITICOLA SEP INFESTANS SEP CINEREA SEP ARACHIDICOLA SEP INAEQUALIS tb SEP WHEAT SEP BARLEY SEP RICE SEP VINE SEP TOMATO SEP GRAPE SEP PEANUT SEP APPLE tb SEP 257 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 258 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 259 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 260 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP SEP 3 SEP SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 261 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP SEP 1 SEP SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 262 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 tb SEP 263 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 264 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 2 SEP SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 3 tb SEP 265 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 0 tb SEP 266 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP SEP 0 SEP SEP 4 tb SEP 267 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP SEP 4 SEP SEP 4 tb SEP 268 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP SEP 4 SEP SEP 4 tb SEP 269 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 270 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb TABLE II continued EMI67.1 COMPOUND SEP PUCCINIA SEP ERYSIPHE SEP PIRICULARIA SEP PLASMOPARA SEP PHYTOPHTHORA SEP BOTRYTIS SEP CERCOSPORA SEP VENTURIA tb SEP NUMBER SEP RECONDITA SEP GRAMINIS SEP ORYZAE SEP VITICOLA SEP INFESTANS SEP CINEREA SEP ARACHIDICOLA SEP INAEQUALIS tb SEP WHEAT SEP BARLEY SEP RICE SEP VINE SEP TOMATO SEP GRAPE SEP PEANUT SEP APPLE tb SEP 271 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 4 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 272 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 3 tb SEP 273 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 4 tb SEP 274 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 4 tb SEP 275 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 276 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 277 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 3 SEP SEP SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 279 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 2 SEP SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 4 tb SEP 280 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 tb SEP 281 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP SEP 3 SEP SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 282 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 3 SEP SEP SEP 3 SEP 4 tb SEP 284 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 285 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 4 tb SEP 286 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb TABLE II continued EMI68.1 COMPOUND SEP PUCCINIA SEP ERYSIPHE SEP PIRICULARIA SEP PLASMOPARA SEP PHYTOPHTHORA SEP BOTRYTIS SEP CERCOSPORA SEP VENTURIA tb SEP NUMBER SEP RECONDITA SEP GRAMINIS SEP ORYZAE SEP VITICOLA SEP INFESTANS SEP CINEREA SEP ARACHIDICOLA SEP INAEQUALIS tb SEP WHEAT SEP BARLEY SEP RICE SEP VINE SEP TOMATO SEP GRAPE SEP PEANUT SEP APPLE tb SEP 287 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 288 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 289 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 4 tb SEP 290 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 4 tb SEP 291 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 1 SEP SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 4 tb SEP 292 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 3 SEP SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 293 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP SEP SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 294 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 295 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 3 tb SEP 296 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 297 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 2 SEP SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 301 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 302 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP SEP SEP 2 SEP 3 tb SEP 303 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP SEP 1 SEP SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 tb EXAMPLE 21 This Example illustrates the plant growth regulating properties of the compounds. The compounds were applied in the form of a 4000 ppm solution in distilled water and the solution was then applied to the foliage of young seedlings of various plants. The experiments were replicated twice. After 12 or 13 days from treatment the plants were assessed for plant growth regulating effects and phytotoxic symptoms. Table III shows the stunting effect of the compounds on the vegetative growth using the following grading 1 0 30 retardation 2 31 75 retardation 3 75 retardation If no figure is given, the compound was substantially inactive as a stunting agent. Additional plant growth regulating properties are indicated as follows G darker green lead colourA apical effectT tillering effect. TABLE III EMI70.1 COMPOUND SEP SUGAR SEP AGROSTIS SEP CYNODON SEP DACTYLIS tb SEP NUMBER SEP SOYA SEP COTTON SEP BEET SEP TENUIS SEP DACTYLON SEP GLOMERATA SEP WHEAT SEP BARLEY SEP MAIZE SEP TOMATO tb SEP 1 SEP 3G SEP 2G SEP 1 SEP G tb SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 2G SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1G tb SEP 6 SEP 1 SEP 3G SEP 3 SEP 2G SEP 2G SEP 1G SEP 3G tb SEP 9 SEP 2G SEP G SEP 1 SEP 1G SEP 1G SEP 1G SEP 1T SEP 2G tb SEP 11 SEP 2G SEP 1G SEP 3G SEP 3G SEP 3G SEP 3G SEP 3G tb SEP 12 SEP 1 SEP 3G SEP 2G SEP 1G SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP T SEP 3G tb SEP 13 SEP 1G SEP 2 SEP 1G SEP 1GT SEP 2 SEP 2 tb SEP 14 SEP 1G SEP 2G SEP 1G SEP 1G SEP 1G SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 3G tb SEP 15 SEP 2G SEP 3G SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2GA tb SEP 17 SEP G SEP 2 SEP 2G SEP G tb SEP 18 SEP 3 SEP 2G SEP 2G SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 3G tb SEP 19 SEP 2G SEP 2 SEP 2GT SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3GA tb SEP 20 SEP 2G SEP 2G SEP 2G SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3GA tb SEP 21 SEP 2G SEP 2G SEP 2G SEP 2G SEP 2G SEP 2G SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3A tb SEP 23 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1G SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2GA tb SEP 25 SEP 2G SEP 3G SEP 3GA SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP T SEP 3 SEP 2G tb TABLE III continued EMI71.1 COMPOUND SEP SUGAR SEP AGROSTIS SEP CYNODON SEP DACTYLIS tb SEP NUMBER SEP SOYA SEP COTTON SEP BEET SEP TENUIS SEP DACTYLON SEP GLOMERATA SEP WHEAT SEP BARLEY SEP MAIZE SEP TOMATO tb SEP 26 SEP G SEP 2G SEP 1G SEP 3 SEP 3 tb SEP 27 SEP 1G SEP 2G SEP 1 SEP 3G tb SEP 28 SEP 2G SEP 1 SEP 2G tb SEP 31 SEP 3GA SEP 2G SEP 1G SEP T SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 3G tb SEP 32 SEP 2G SEP 2 SEP 3G SEP 3G SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3GA tb SEP 34 SEP 2GA SEP 1G SEP 2G SEP 2G SEP 2G SEP 2G SEP 3 SEP 3GA tb SEP 35 SEP 2G SEP 2G SEP 3GA SEP 3G SEP 3G SEP 2G SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 3G tb SEP 41 SEP 1G SEP 1G SEP 1G SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 tb SEP 42 SEP 1G SEP 1G tb SEP 44 SEP 1GA SEP G SEP 3G SEP 1G SEP T SEP 1 SEP 3GA tb SEP 46 SEP 2GA SEP G SEP 2G SEP 1T SEP 2GAT tb SEP 49 SEP 2G SEP 1G SEP 1 SEP 1GT SEP 1GT SEP 2G tb SEP 50 SEP 1 SEP 2G SEP 2G SEP 1G tb SEP 52 SEP 1 SEP T SEP 1 tb SEP 53 SEP 1G SEP 3G SEP T SEP 1 SEP 2G tb SEP 54 SEP G SEP 1G SEP 2G SEP T SEP 2 SEP 3G tb TABLE III continued EMI72.1 COMPOUND SEP SUGAR SEP AGROSTIS SEP CYNODON SEP DACTYLIS tb SEP NUMBER SEP SOYA SEP COTTON SEP BEET SEP TENUIS SEP DACTYLON SEP GLOMERATA SEP WHEAT SEP BARLEY SEP MAIZE SEP TOMATO tb SEP 55 SEP 1G SEP 3G SEP 3G SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3A tb SEP 69 SEP G tb SEP 70 SEP 1G tb SEP 71 SEP 1G SEP 1G SEP 1G SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2G tb SEP 75 SEP 1G SEP G SEP 1GT tb SEP 81 SEP YG SEP 1 SEP 2G tb SEP 85 SEP 2GA SEP 3GA SEP 2G SEP 3GT tb SEP 89 SEP 2G SEP 2G SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1G SEP 1G tb SEP 90 SEP 1G SEP 2G SEP 1G SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1G SEP 1G tb SEP 104 SEP 1T SEP 1 tb SEP 105 SEP 1G SEP 1G SEP 1 tb SEP 107 SEP 2G SEP 1 SEP 1G tb SEP 108 SEP 3GA SEP 1 SEP 2G tb SEP 109 SEP 3G SEP 3G tb TABLE III continued EMI73.1 COMPOUND SEP SUGAR SEP AGROSTIS SEP CYNODON SEP DACTYLIS tb SEP NUMBER SEP SOYA SEP COTTON SEP BEET SEP TENUIS SEP DACTYLON SEP GLOMERATA SEP WHEAT SEP BARLEY SEP MAIZE SEP TOMATO tb SEP 128 SEP 2G SEP 2G SEP 2G SEP 2G SEP 2G SEP 1G SEP 3GA tb SEP 129 SEP 3G SEP 2G SEP 2GAT SEP 3G SEP 3G SEP 2G SEP 1T SEP 1 SEP 3G tb SEP 147 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 tb SEP 177 SEP 2G SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 tb SEP 196 SEP 2G SEP 3G SEP 3G SEP 1 SEP 1G SEP 1G SEP 1 SEP 3GA tb SEP 248 SEP 2G SEP 2G SEP 3G SEP 3G SEP 2G SEP 2G SEP 3G SEP 1G SEP 3GA tb SEP 250 SEP G tb SEP 251 SEP 1G SEP 2G SEP 2G SEP 1 SEP 2GA tb SEP 252 SEP 1GT SEP 1GA SEP 3GA SEP 2 SEP 2GT tb