# Penicillanoyloxymethyl penicillanate 1,1,1 tetraoxide.

## Abstract
Penicillanoyloxymethyl penicillanate 1,1,1 ,1 tetraox ide is useful for enhancing the activity of betalactam anti biotics in the treatment of bacterial infections in mammalian subjects. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a sus pension of penicillanoyloxymethyl penicillanate 1,1,1 1 tetraoxide in water is disclosed which is particularly valu able for use with slow release forms of beta lactam antibio tics.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Penicillanoyloxymethyl penicillanate l,l,l ,l tetraoxide. 2. A pharmaceutical composition for treating a bacterial infection in a mammalian subject which comprises penicillanoyloxymethyl penicillanate l,l,l ,l tetraoxide, a beta lactam antibiotic and a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent or carrier. 3. A pharmaceutical composition for enhancing the antibacterial effectiveness of a beta lactam antibiotic in a mammalian subject, which comprises a suspension of penicil lanoyloxymethyl penicillanate l,l,l ,l tetraoxide in water. 4. A process for the preparation of penicillanoyloxymethyl penicillanate l,l,l ,l tetraoxide or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, which comprises reacting a compound of formulaEMI15.1 with a compound of the formulaEMI15.2 wherein M is a carboxylate salt forming cation and X is a good leaving group. 5. A process according to claim 4 wherein M is the sodium, potassium, calcium, barium, trimethylamine, triethylamine, tributylamine, diisopropylethylamine, N methylmorpholine, N methylpiperidine, Nmethylpyrrolidine, N,NÚ dimethylpiperazine or N methyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydroquinoline salt. 6. A process according to claim 4 or claim 5 wherein X is chloro, bromo, iodo, alkylsulfonyloxy having one to four carbon atoms, phenylsulfonyloxy or tolylsulfonyloxy. 7. A process according to any of claims 4 to 6 wherein the reaction is carried out in a polar organic solvent at a temperature in the range 0 to 800C. 8. A process according to claim 7 wherein said polar organic solvent is N,N dimethylformamide, N,Ndimethylacetamide, N methylpyrrolidone, dimethylsulfoxide or hexamethylphosphoramide.

## Description
PENICILLANOYLOXYMETHYL PENICILLANATE 1,1,l ,l TETRAOXIDE Background of the Invention This invention relates to the chemotherapy of bacterial infections in mammalian subjects. More particularly it relates to penicillanoyloxymethyl penicillanate l,l,l ,l tetraoxide, a new chemical substance useful in the field of antibacterial chemotherapy. One of the most well known and widely used of the classes of antibacterial agents is the class known as the beta lactam antibiotics. These compounds are characterized in that they have a nucleus consisting of a 2 azetidinone beta lactam ring fused to either a thiazolidine or a dihydro 1,3 thiazine ring.When the nucleus contains a thiazolidine ring, the compounds are usually referred to generically as penicillins, whereas when the nucleus contains a dihydrothiazine ring, the compounds are referred to as cephalosporins. Typical examples of penicillins which are commonly used in clinical practice are benzylpenicillin penicillin G , phenoxymethylpenicillin penicillin V , ampicillin and carbenicillin typical examples of common cephalosporins are cephalothin, cephalexin and cefazolin. However, despite the wide use and wide acceptance of the beta lactam antibiotics as valuable chemo .herapeutic agents, they suffer from the major drawback that certain members are not active against certain microorganisms. It is thought that in many instances this resistance of a particular microorganism to a given beta lactam antibiotic results because the microorganism produces a beta lactamase. The latter substances are enzymes which cleave the beta lactam ring of penicillins and cephalosporins to give products which are devoid of antibacterial activity. However, certain substances have the ability to inhibit betalactamases, and when a beta lactamase inhibitor is used in combination with a penicillin or cephalosporin it can increase or enhance the antibacterial effectiveness of the penicillin or cephalosporin against certain microorganisms.One useful beta lactamase inhibitor is penicillanic acid l,l dioxide, the compound of the formula I EMI2.1 West German Of eniegungsschrift No. 2,824,535 describes the preparation of penicillanic acid 1,1 dioxide, and methods for its use as a beta lactamase inhibitor in combination with beta lactam antibiotics. U.K. patent application no. 2051057 discloses compounds of the formulaEMI3.1 in which R1 is an acyl group of an organic carboxylic acid, especially an acyl group from a natural, biosynthetic or semisynthetic penicillin compound.In one method of preparing the compounds of formula II, a carboxylate salt of a penicillin compound is reacted with a compound of the formulaEMI3.2 wherein X is a good leaving group. Examples of X are chloro, bromo, iodo, alkylsulfonyloxy, phenylsulfonyloxy and tolylsulfonyloxy. Example 25 of the application specifically describes the preparation of the compound of formula III, wherein X is chloro, by reaction of the diisopropylethylamine salt of penicillanic acid l,l dioxide with chloroiodomethane. However it has now been discovered that this reaction also produces the compound of the formula EMI4.1 and it has been found that the compound of formula IV acts as a bio precursor of penicillanic acid 1,1dioxide in mammalian, especially human, subjects. Belgian patent No. 764,688, granted March 23, 1971, and British patent No. 1,303,491, publishedJanuary 17, 1973, disclose a certain 6 acylaminopenicillanoyloxymethyl 6 acylaminopenicillanates b certain 6 acylaminopenicillanoyloxymethyl 6aminopenicillanates and c 6 aminopenicillanoyloxymethyl 6 aminopenicillanate. Summary of the Invention This invention provides penicillanoyloxymethyl penicillanate l,l,l ,l tetraoxide, the c compound of the formula EMI4.2 The compound of the formula IV is converted into penicillanic acid 1,1 dioxide, a known beta lactamase inhibitor, in vivo. Accordingly the compound of formula IV is useful for enhancing the activity of beta lactam antibiotics in a mammalian subject, especially man. However, the compound of formula IV is sparingly soluble in water, and therefore it is particularly useful for the slow release of penicillanic acid l,l aioxide. Under these circumstances it is particularly valuable for use with slow release depot forms of beta lactam antibiotics, especially the sparingly water soluble salts of penicillins. Preferred sparingly water soluble penicillin antibiotic salts with which the compound of formula IV can be co administered are procaine penicillin G, benzathine penicillin G, benethamine penicillin G, procaine penicillin V, benzathine penicillin V and benethamine penicillin V. Detailed Description of the Invention this invention relates to derivatives of penicillanic acid, which is represented by the following structural formulaEMI6.1 In formula V, broken line attachment of a substituent to the bicyclic nucleus indicates that the substituent is below the plane of the bicyclic nucleus. Such a substituent is said to be in the alpha configuration.Conversely, solid line attachment of a substituent to the bicyclic nucleus indicates that the substituent is attached above the plane of the nucleus. This latter configuration is referred to as the betaconfiguration. Using this system, the compounds of formulae II and IV are named as derivatives of penicillanoyloxymethyl penicillanate VI , in which primed and unprimed locants are used to distinguish between the two ring systems, viz. EMI6.2 Also, in this specification, reference is made to certain penicillin compounds, viz.EMI7.1 R is benzyl penicillin G. R is phenoxymethyl penicillin V. Procaine penicillin G is the 1 1 salt of penicillin G with 2 N,N aiethylamin o ethyl 4 aminobenzoate, benzathine penicillin G is the 2 1 salt of penicillin G with N,N dibenzylethylenediamine and benethamine penicillin G is the 1 1 salt of penicillin G with Nbenzyl 2 phenylethylamine. In like manner, procaine penicillin V is the 1 1 salt of penicillin V with 2 N,N diethylamino ethyl 4 aminobenzoate, benzathine penicillin V is the 2 1 salt of penicillin V withN,N dibenzylethylenediamine and benethamine penicillin V is the 1 1 salt of penicillin V with N benzyl 2 phenyl ethyl amine. In one method according to the invention, the compound of formula IV is prepared by reacting a carboxylate salt of the formulaEMI7.2 with a compound of the formula III, wherein M is a carboxylate salt forming cation, and X is a good leaving group. A variety of cations can be used to form the carboxylate salt in the compound of formula VII, but salts which are commonly used include alkali metal salts, such as sodium and potassium salts alkaline earth metal salts, such as calcium and barium salts and tertiary amine salts, such as trimethylamine, triethylamine, tributylamine, diisopropylethylamine, N methylmorpholine, N methylpiperidine, N methylpyrrolidine, N,N dimethylpiperazine and N methyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydroquinoline salts.Typical examples of groups for X are chloro, bromo, iodo, alkylsulfonyloxy having one to four carbon atoms, phenylsulfonyloxy and tolylsulfonyloxy. The reaction between a compound of formula VII and a compound of formula III is usually carried out by contacting the reagents in a solvent, at a temperature in the range from 0 to 800C., and preferably from 250 to 50 C. The compounds of formula VII and III are usually contacted in substantially equimolar proportions, but an excess of either reagent, for example up to a ten fold excess, can be used. A wide variety of solvents can be used, but it is usually advantageous to use a relatively polar solvent, since this has the effect of speeding up the reaction. Typical solvents which can be used include N,N dimethyl formamide, N, N dimethylacetamide, N methylpyrrolidone, dimethylsulfoxide and hexamethylphosphoramide. The reaction time varies according to a number of factors, but at about 40 500C. reaction times of several hours, e.g. 12 to 24 hours, are commonly used. When X is chloro or bromo, it is sometimes advantageous to add up to about one molar equivalent of an alkali metal iodine, which has the effect of seeding up the reaction. The compound of formula IV is isolated in conventional fashion. When a water miscible solvent is used, it is usually sufficient simply to dilute the reaction medium with an excess of water. The product is then extracted into a water immiscible solvent, such as ethyl acetate, and then the product is recovered by solvent evaporation. When a water immiscible solvent is used, it is usually sufficient to wash the solvent with water, and then recover the product by solvent evaporation. The compound of formula IV can be purified by well known methods, such as recrystallization or chromatography, but due regard must be given to the lability of the betalactam ring system. The compounds of formula III can be prepared from a compound of formula VII by reaction with a compound of the formula X CH2 Y, wherein M and X are as defined previously, and Y is a good leaving group.Y can be the same as or different than X, and typical groups for Y are chloro, bromo, iodo, alkylsulfonyloxy having one to four carbon atoms, phenylsulfonyloxy and tolylsulfonyloxy. This reaction is carried out in the same manner that was described for reaction of a compound of formula VII with a compound of formula III, except that it is preferable to use an excess of the compound of formula X CH2 Y e.g. at least a fourfold excess . Penicillanic acid l,l dioxide and salts thereof compounds of the formula VII are prepared by published procedures see West German OffenlegungsschriftNo. 2,824,535 . Preparation of a compound of the formula IV has been described in terms of a two step procedure which comprises reaction of a salt of penicillanic acid l,l aioxide with a compound of the formula X CE2 Y, to give a compound of formula III, followed by reaction of a compound of formula III with a further quantity of a salt of penicillanic acid l,l dioxie. As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art, it is possible effectively to combine these two steps into a single step simply by contacting a salt of penicillanic acid l,l dioxide with 0.5 molar equivalents of a compound of formula X CH2 Y, wherein X and Y are as defined previously.This reaction is carried out in the same manner as described previously for reaction of a compound of the formula VII with a compound of formula III. As indicated hereinbefore the compound of formula IV acts as a bio precursor to penicillanic acid l,l dioxide. In other words, when the compound of formula IV is exposed to mammalian blood or tissue, it is converted into penicillanic acid l,l dioxide. Under these circumstances, the compound of formula IV can be used to enhance the antibacterial effectiveness of beta lactam antibiotics in mammals, particularly man. However, the compound of formula IV is sparingly soluble in water, and this makes it useful as a slowrelease form of penicillanic acid l,l dioxide. Thus, administration of the compound of formula IV gives sustained blood levels of penicillanic acid 1,1dioxide. Consequently, the compound of formula IV is especially useful for co administration to a mammalian subject with slow release forms of beta lactam antibiotics, such as the salts of penicillins and cephalosporins which are sparingly soluble in water.Thus, the compound of formula IV can conveniently be administered to a mammalian subject as a single dose at approximately the same time as the subject first receives a dose of a sparingly water soluble penicillin antibiotic.Subsequent doses can be given as necessary to maintain the desired blood levels of penicillanic acid 1,1dioxide. During treatment of a mammalian subject with the compound of formula IV and a sparingly water soluble penicillin antibiotic salt, the weight ratio of the compound of formula IV to the penicillin salt will be in the range from 6 1 to 1 6, and preferably 1 1 to 1 3. In this context, a salt of a penicillin or cephalosporin is considered sparingly soluble in water if its solubility is in the range from 0.05 to 1.5 mg. ml. at about 250C. Preferred sparingly soluble beta lactam antibiotic salts with which the compound of formula IV can be used are procaine penicillin G, benzathine penicillin G, benethamine penicillin G, procaine penicillin V, benzathine penicillin V and benethamine penicillin V. When considering use of the compound of formula IV as a slow release form of penicillanic acid 1,1dioxide, it is preferably administered subcutaneously.For this purpose, it is usual to prepare an aqueous suspension of the compound of the formula IV, in substantially the same manner as that currently used for formulation of a sparingly water soluble salt of a beta lactam antibiotic such as benzathine penicillin G. The proportional ratio of the compound of formula IV and the water can vary, depending on the dosage contemplated. However, aqueous suspensions of the compound of formula IV will usually contain from 50 to 200 milligrams of the compound of formula IV per milliliter of suspension. Small amounts of other ingredients conventionally used in preparing aqueous suspensions can also be added.For example, it is possible to add emulsifiers, such as lecithin, sorbitan mono ol eate, sorbitan monopalmitate and polyoxyethylene 20 sorbitan mono oleate hydrocolloids, such as carboxymethyl cellulose dispersing agents, such as polyvinylpyrrolidone and preservatives, such as sodium benzoate, methylparaben and propylparaben.Additionally it is preferable to buffer the suspension to a pH in the range from 6 to 7, and a sodium citrate citric acid buffer is convenient or this purpose. The prescribing physician will ultimately decide the appropriate dosage for a human subject when the compound of formula IV is being co administered with a sparingly water soluble salt of a beta lactam antibiotic. This dosage will be expected to vary according to a variety of factors, such as the weight, age and response of the individual subject, as well as the nature and severity of the.subDect s symptoms and the particular sparingly water soluble salt with which the compound of formula IV is being co administered. However, single, subcutaneous doses of from about 4 to about 40 mg. per kilogram of body weight will normally be used. The dose will be repeated when the blood level of penicillanic acid l,l dioxide has fallen below the desired level. Also, dosing will continue until the desired therapeutic effect has been obtained. The following examples are being provided to further illustrate this invention however they should not be construed as limiting the scope of the invention in any way. EXAMPLE 1 Penicil lanoyl oxymethyl Penicillanate l,l,l ,l Tetraoxide A mixture of 2.55 g. of sodium penicillanate l,l dioxie, 3.3 ml. of bromochloromethane, a few milligrams of sodium iodide and 60 ml. of N,Ndimethylformamide was stirred at 40 to 50at. overnight.The reaction mixture was cooled, and then it was poured into an excess of water. The resulting mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate, and the extracts were washed with water and dried Na2SO4 . Evaporation of the dried solution in vacuo afforded 0.44 g. of penicillanoyloxymethyl penicillanate l,l,l ,l tetraoxide. The nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum of this product, in deuterochloroform, showed abscrptions at 1.45 singlet, 6H , 1.60 singlet, 6H , 3.50 multiplet, 4H , 4.50 singlet, 2H , 4.80 multiplet, 2H and 6.00 singlet, 2H ppm downfield from internal tetramethylsilane. The penicillanoyloxymethyl penicillanate 1,1,1 ,1 tetraoxsde was recrystallized from chloroform, giving 0.18 g. of material having a melting point of 185 1870C.The infrared spectrum, as a potassium bromide disc, showed significant absorptions at 1800, 1325, 1212, 1143, li17, 1005 and 948 cm1 EXAMPLE 2 P enic ill anoyl oxymethyl Penicillanate l,l,l ,l Tetraoxiae A mixture of 2.55 g. of sodium penicillanate l,l dioxide, 0.41 ml. of diiodomethane and 30 ml. ofN,N dimethylformamide is stirred at 250C. for 2 hours and then at 400C. for an additional 4 hours. The reaction mixture is cooled and then it is poured into an excess of water. The resulting mixture is extracted with ethyl acetate, and the extracts are washed with water and dried Na2SO4 . Evaporation of the dried solution in vacuo affords penicillanoyloxymethyl penicillanate 1,1,1 ,1 tetraoxide. EXAMPLE 3 Formulation A typical formulation contains the following ingredients Ingredient Weight in grams Sodium benzoate 0.3Sodium citrate 0.45Citric acid 0.05Lecithin 0.3Sodium carboxymethyl cellulose 0.5 Polyoxyethylene 20 sorbitan mono oleate 0.07 P enic il lanoyl oxymethyl penicillanate l,l,l ,l tetraoxide 150 The above ingredients are combined and the volume is made up to 100 ml. with deionized water. An appropriate volume is used to provide the dosage required.