# Improved automatic control and drive of working units of textile machines.

## Abstract
The invention is displayed in improvements to textile machines, whereby said textile machines can be O. E. type spinning frames, winding machines, twisters, ring spinning machines, relaxing machines, texturizing machines, etc., and the textile machines are equipped with a plurality of functional units and with one or more automatic servicing devices separate from said functional units, and whereby the automatic servicing devices can be stationary and or movable, and the movable automatic servicing devices are able to move in respect of the functional units and to carry out thereon and in cooperation therewith one or more auxiliary functions, the improvements being characterized by the fact that the functional units and the automatic servicing devices are linked functionally in such a way that they tend to maintain and restore at all times collectively optimal working conditions. The invention also considers textile machines which adopt said improvements.

## Claims
C L A I M SI. Improvements to textile l lachines, hereby said textile machines can be 0.E. type spinning frames, minding machines, twisters, spinning machines, ring spinning machines, textuz izing machines, etc., and the textile machines I9 are equipped with a plurality of functional units I2 and with one or more automatic servicing devices II separate fromi but cooperating at least temporarily with, said functional units I2 , and whereby the automatic servicing devices II can be stationary and or movable, and the movable automatic servicing devices I4 13 are able to move in respect of the functional units 12 and to carry out therewith one or more auxiliary functions, said improvements being characterized by the fact that said functional units I2 and said automatic servicing devices II are linked functionally in such a way that they tend to maintain and restore collectively optimal working conditions at all times. 2. Improvements to textile machines, as in Claim I, chary acterized by the fact that the linking of the functional units I2 and automatic servicing devices II is brought about by assuming as a pilot variable at least the address of said functional units I2 requiring auxiliary operations, said address being possibly associated with the terporary address of the movable automatic servicing device I4 I3 . 3. Improvements to textile machines, as in Claims I and 2, characterized by the fact that the linking of the functional units I2 and autorr atic servicing devices II is brought about by providing indicator means 20 23 to monitor at least the pilot variable of the functional units 12 and of the movable automatic servicing devices I4 I3 , a cent ral coordination group IO which receives as input the signal monitored by said indicator iiieans 20 23 , an a i iary coordination group 22 to transmit to the speciclièd automatic servicing device II the command as output fromsaid central coordination group IO so as to optimize the action of said specialized automatic servicing device II by supplying it with the parameters for its action, where by the automatic servicing device II is possibly capable of at least a temporary direct link with the temporarily optimized functional unit I2 , and there is possibly an auxiliary coordination group 21 to transmit at least to the optimized functional unit I2 the pilot variable con taining at least the relative parameters for action. 4. Improvements to textile machines, as in Claim I and in one or the other of the Claims thereafter up to Claim 3 inclusive, characterized by the fact that the indicator means 20 23 transmit at least cyclically theirEMI25.1 readings to the central coordination group IO , which stores them and possibly compares them with the preset parameters. 5. Improvements to textile machines, as in Claim I and in one or the other of the Claims thereafter up to Claim 3 inclusive, characterized by the fact that the central coordination group IO is activated when a request comes from the indicator means 20 monitoring the functional units I2 transmitting at least the pilot variable. 6. Improvements to textile machines, as in Claim 1 and in one or another of the Claims thereafter, characterized by the fact that the central coordination group IO feeds temporarily with parameters the specialized automatic servicing device II and adapts and liners it individually at least to the temporarily optimized functional unit 12 . 7. Improvements to textile machines, as in Claim I and in one or another of the Claims thereafter, characterized by the fact that the central coordination group IO feeds the functional unit I2 with pararleters to suit the type of work which said unit I2 has to carry out. 8. Improvements to textile machines, as in Claim I and in one or another of the Clains thereafter up to Claim 7 inclusive, characterized by the fact that at least the pilot variable is read as an electrical magnitude and means are envisaged to eliminate disturbing factors from the reading of said magnitude. 9. Improvements to textile machines, as in Claim I and in one or another of the Claims thereafter up to Claim 7 inclusive, characterized by the fact that at least the pilot variable is read as an optical magnitude and means are envisaged to eliminate disturbing factors from the reading of said magnitude. IO. Improvements to textile machines, as in Claim I and in one or another of the Claims thereafter, characterized by the fact that at the start of working there are preset the working parameters and operational ruses referring to at lest Eu part of the fractional units I2 of the textile machine 19 , whereby the parameters referring to at least part of the automatic servicing devices II are also pre set advantageously. II. Perfected textile machines, whereby said textile r.cch ines can be O.E. type spinning frames, winding machines, twisters, spinning machines, ring spinning machines, relaxing machines, texturizing machines, etc., and the textile machines are equipped with a plurality of functional units and with one or more automatic servicing devices separate from, but cooperating at least temporarily with, said functional units, and whereby said auto attic servicing devices can be stationary and or movable, and the movable automatic servicing devices are able to move in respect of the functional units and to carry out thereon sl1d in cooperation therewith one or more auxiliary functions, chracteri3ed by the fact that the functional units and automatic servicing devices are linked functionally in such a way that they tend to maintain and restore at all times collectively op timal working conditions which involve one or another of the improvements of Claims I to 9. I2. Improvements to textile machines, and the textile machines thus improved, whereby said textile machines can be O.E. type spinning frames, winding machines, twisters, spinning machines, ring spinning machines, relaxing machines, texturizing machines, etc., whereby said textile machines are equipped with a plurality of functional units and with one or more automatic servicing devices separate from, but cooperating at least temporarily ith said functional units, and the automatic servicing devices can be stationar y and or movable, and whereby the mov e automatic servicing devices are able to move in respect of the functional devices and to carry out thereon and in cooperation therewith one or more auxiliary functions, according to one or another of the Claims hereinbefore, as described and shown and for the purposes allowed.

## Description
Description of the invention entitled IMPROVEMENTS TO TEXTILE MACHINES AND TEXTILE briACHINES THUSIMPROVED in the name of OFFICINE SAVIO Sep.A. at PORDENONE submitted on under No. This invention concerns improvements suitable for the coordination of operations on textile machines in general. To be more exact, the invention concerns improvements able to optimize the various auxiliary functions needed in a textile machine. The invention also concerns textile machines which adopt such improvements. By auxiliary functions are meant here those functions or operations necessary to predispose and re start the ma chine for carrying out the basic function for which it has been invented. Therefore, without wishing thereby to restrict the list, the changing of the tube, doffing, reattachment and or ty ing, cleaning, the replacement of an empty source of mate rial to be processed with another predisposed source, etc. are auxiliary functions. Hereinafter we shall develop the application of the invention to open end spinning frames hereinafter denominated as O.E. spinning frames or merely O.E. so as toSsim plify the description of the invention. The auxiliary functions are common to various textile machines even though each machine requires individual ad justments and adaptations, which are in themselves simple and quick to embody as soon as a complete enough case has been made evident, such as that which follows on the application of the invention t6 an O.E. spinning frame. The main auxiliary functions in an O.E. spinning frame are specifically the automatic reattachment of the yarn,the cleaning of the rotors, the discharge of the bobbin from the spinning position, the loading of empty tubes on the machine and on the. spinning unit, the discharge of bobbins from the machine, the storage of bobbins, the changing of the cans holding the sliver to be spun, and so on. This invention tends to bring about improvements suitable for coordinating the work of the devices able to carry out said auxiliary functions and to optimize their perform ance. The present state of the art envisages direct command systems, that is to say, it envisages that the individual working unit nvill make a direct request for the action of possible auxiliary devices. The state of the art also envisages that the individual working unit will comprise wholly or partly, within its own overall assemblage, the devices able to perform at least part of the auxiliary functions. In the specific case of O.E. type spinning frames, at least one travelling carriage is generally visualized which carries out all or a part of the auxiliary functions. Therefore, when a spinning unit in an O.E. spinning frame stops production or requires the bobbins to be changed, an appropriate signal is cut in at the spinning position and the travelling carriage, during its continuous obligat ory patrolling movement, only intercepts the signal when it is in a position corresponding with said working unit, ands halts in correspondence with said signal. The travelling carriage of a known type, being subject to a system which envisages a direct command, has to move at a low patrolling speed since it has to read the signal for action or for halting when in correspondence with the spinning unit. It thus becomes necessary to divide the functions between several carriages, and several travelling carriages are normally envisaged, depending on the main specialist function performed. Therefore there can be doffing carriage ges, reattachment carriages, cleaning carriages, etc0 In the case of a system with direct commands, when the bobbin has reached the desired size, the doffings are carry ried out with or without interruptions of production. In both cases some drawbacks are to be found. If the doffing carriage takes action without inter ruptions of production, when several bobbins reach the re quired size at the same time, they are discharged not simultaneously but at the moment in which the doffing carriage is available, and they therefore have various dimensions when discharged, and this is disadvantageous. he greater the number of bobbins to be discharged si multaneously and the greater the distance between the positions of said bobbins to be discharged within the patrolling field of the doffing carriage, the greater the differences in said dimensions. The drawback of having bobbins with differing dimens ions leads to many restrictions in the successive phases of processing the yarn. If the doffing carriage takes action Xath production halted bobbins are obtained which all have the same dia meter inasmuch as the production is halted on purpose when the preset size of the bobbin is reached, but this leads to complications in the cycle and for the automatic servicing devices. In fact, to restart production it becomes necessary to employ a further automatic servicing device able to in sert a tube with some yarn already wound. Said further automatic servicing device increases the cost of the spinning frames and of the yarn unfavourably. Furthermore, in such a case, to restart production it is necessary to await the arrival of the reattachment car riage, and this leads to an unfavourable loss of time and, therefore, of production. Moreover, seeing that the direction of patrolling is obligatory, if a spinning unit needs the action of a travelling carriage even for one single and limited function, the unit has to wait for said travelling carriage to complete its patrolling course.This waiting takes place even if the signal requiring act ion is cut in immediately after the travelling carriage itself has passed and even if there is no other action to be taken in the rest of the machine. These drawbacks are to be found in other kinds of textile machines as welleand not only in the O.E. machines which use travelling carriages, but also, for instance, in winding machines, spinning machines, etc., and they involve a considerable loss dt production. To lessen these shortcomings, arrangements h we gener ally been made to divide the patrolling course by envisaging one or more section of patrolling courses, and in each section one or more travelling carriages are made to cooperate. While this solution lessens the knoirsn shortconings, it increases the cost of the individual working units. Arrangements have also been madeto bO equip each single working unit with automatic servicing devices so as to carry out at least part of the auxiliary functions independently. But this solution involves a considerable burden as regards the cost of each single working unit. In fact it is known that the adoption of travelling carriages reduces the cost of the individual working units drastically and is preferred to the excessively costly solution which visualises the use of heads which are able to perform some or all of the auxiliary functions. The invention, therefore, tends to embody some improvements which create a functional link between the individual functional units and the carriages or other possible devices linked to said units and able to perform the auxiliary functions, so as to tend to maintain and restore at all times collectively optimal working conditions.The improvements according to the invention make it possible to obviate the division of the course into several sections and therefore to avoid the necessity of using a greater numr ber of carriages, thus enabling the cost of the individual spinning units to be reduced. The improvements according to the invention envisage an indirect type of command whereby the carriages or other possible devices linked to the units take action on the basis of the optimal indications expressed by the system itself. The advantages provided by an indirect command are manifold. There is less loss of pro auction because the carriages can act in quick succession, moving at the best speed and along a preferential optimized course. There is less consumption of energy and less wear in that the carriages take action only in the case of necessity. There is greater flexibility since the system is able to act with different tolerances in the formation of the bobbins. Iiioreover, one carriage can serve several machines util ining differing parameters for one and the same type of pro cessing. This multiple link obviates the need to proceed to est abolish new parameters on each occasion, with a considerable waste of time, and without having to use specialized personnel at any time, which is also disadvantageous during night work. In such a case it is enough to preset, from time to time and with reference to the specific machines, new pro cessing parameters, and the improvements of the invention then arrange to send to the carriage suitable signals when ever said carriage is readied to serve a new machine. Furthermore, the machines which adopt said improvements can be connected to possible process and or management com putters, which may possibly already exist or can be placed in the Works or in another decentralized place, and can function in unison with said computers, thus enabling a full picture to be obtained of the production data and machine behaviour, and also enabling the desired programming of pro suction to be carried out. Moreover, the invention permits a greater simplicity of implementation if other automatic servicing devices are introduced. According to the invention the command of the travel ling carriages is envisaged as being indirect, that is to say, the improvements envisage that the decision to perform a given function is not taken by the travelling or movable carriages during the patrolling phase nor on a direct re quest from the functional unit. The invention envisages that the decision to carry out a given function requested by the functional unit is taken after optimization of the requests and of the courses by subjecting the carriage to the specific parameters of the functional unit making the request. According to the invention the request for an auxili ary function can take place with the carriage halted or mo having or with the carriage in the phase of performing an auks, iliary function at another functional unit in the same ma chine or in another machine. A coordinating group comprised in the improvements re ceives the signals of the functional unit and of the auto matic servicing devices, coordinates them, transforms them so as to optimize the speeds and times of the action to be taken and sends them to the functional unit and or movable carriages or to other possible devices linked to the units The invention is embodied, therefore, in improvements to textile machines, whereby said machines can be O.E. type spinning frames, winding machines, twisters, spinning mach ines, ring spinning machines, relaxing machines, texturi z ing machines, etc. and the textile machines are equipped with a plurality of functional units and with one or more automatic servicing devices separate from, but cooperating with, said functional units at least temporarily, and where by the automatic servicing devices can be stationary and or movable, and the movable automatic servicing devices are suitable for moving in respect of the functional units and for carrying out on and in cooperation with said functional units one or more auxiliary functions, said improvements being characterized by the fact that the functional units and automatic servicing devices are functionally linked in such F way as to tend to maintain and restore collectively optimal working conditions at all times. The invention is also embodied in improved textile machines, whereby said textile machines can be O.F, type spinning frames, winding machines, twisters, spinning ma chines, ring spinning machines, relaxing machines, textur izing machines, etc. and the textile machines are equipped with a plurality of functional units and with one or more automatic servicing devices separate from, but cooperating with, said functional units at least temporarily, and where by the automatic servicing devices are stationary and or movable, and the movable automatic servicing devices are suitable for moving in respect of the functional units and for carrying out on and in cooperation with said functional units one or more auxiliary functions, said improved textile machines being characterized by the fact that the function al units and the automatic servicing devices are function ally linked in such a way as to tend to maintain and rest ore collectively optimal working conditions at all times. The invention is also displayed in improvements to tex tile machines, whereby said textile machines can be O.E. type spinning frames, winding machines, twisters1 spinning machines, ring spinning machines, relaxing machines, textur izing machines, etc. and whereby the improvements can be suitable for coordinating the auxiliary functions carried out by one or more automatic servicing devices, whether stationary or movable, suitable for moving in respect of the functional units and for performing on and in cooperat ion with said functional units one or more auxiliary funct ions, said improvements being characterized by the fact that whenever each functional unit requests for itself the performance of a specific auxiliary operation, it emits at least one signal of request for action, and said signal is translated and optimized before being transmitted to the specific movable carriage, whereby said specific movable carriage is waiting or is in a transfer phase or is already performing auxiliary functions on another functional unit in the same machine or in another machine, and whereby the transmission of said signal of a request for action is co ordinated at least with the parameter of the optimized calling functional unit. With the help of the attached tables, which have been given for illustrative but non restrictive purposes, let us now see a specific application of the invention which is possible in an O.E. type spinning frame, it being understood that the invention can also be applied to other textile machines such as winding machines, spinning machines, etc.with suitable adaptations. In the tables we have as follows Fig. I gives a simplified diagram with blocks of the known traditional relationship between functional units and automatic servicing devices Fig. 2 shows with a diagram of blocks the type and number of interactions which take place in a known tradit ional relationship Fig. 3 shows with a simplified diagram of blocks the re lationship established by the invention between functional units and automatic servicing devices, Fig. 4 shows the type and number of interactions which take place in a relationship according to the in vention Fig. 5 shows diagrammatically and from the outside an O.E. spinning frame according to the invention, seen in a frontal orthographic projection and equipped with two movable carriages, one for doffing and the other for reattachment Fig. 6 gives a view, in orthographic plan projection, of the O.E. spinning frame shown in Fig. 5 Fig. 7 gives a view, in orthographic side projection, of the O.E. spinning frame shown in Figs. 5 and 6 Fig. 8 summarizes with a diagram of blocks the types of signals and structures which act in a relationship according to the invention. In the figures the same parts or parts performing the same functions bear the same reference numbers. Fig. I shows in a simplified way the known traditional relationship existing between a functional unit I2 and an automatic servicing device II. In it the direct interaction is made clear between two functional blocks by means of com mand signals sent by the functional units 12 to the auto matic servicing devices II. In actual fact the functional units I2 and the auto matic servicing devices II are more numerous, and this in creases the interactions taking place between the various blocks. Fig. 2 makes evident in a known solution the directions of the interactions occurring between the functional units 12, indicated with UI , U2 .... Un , and the automatic serv icing devices, indicated with A1 , A2 ... An , and also the mutual interactions occurring between the automatic service ing devices themselves II. The innovatory solution proposed by the improvements according to the invention is shown as an example in Fig. 3.It makes clear the indirect relationship existing between a generic automatic servicing device II and the functional unit I2. Said indirect relationship is realized by means of a coordinating group IO which optimizes the actions of the generic automatic servicing device II in favour of the functional unit I2 by tending to maintain and restore optimal working conditions. An enlarged lay out with more functional units I2, in dicated with U1 , U2 .... Un w and with more automatic serv icing devices II, indicated with A1 , A2 ... An S is shown in the general diagram of Fig. 4. When the invention is applied to an O.Ei spinning frame I9, in which the functional units I2 are many in number and the automatic servicing devices II consist, for instance, of doffing I3 and reattachment I4 carriages, headstock controls, the belt for the bobbins, storage points for bobbins, tubes and cans, etc., the optimization of the actions and the maintenance of optimal conditions are still more advan tageous owing to the ease with which the central coordinat ion group IO is able to adapt itself to the new dimension of the system. Figs. 5, 6 and 7 show diagrammatically an O.E. spinning frame, indicated with I9, in three views with orthographic projection, namely frontal, plan and side views respectively. Said spinning frame I9 comprises in our example a dof fing carriage 13 and a reattachment carriage I4, both being able in the example to run on two separate guides or rails I5 and I6 respectively, so as to be able to position them selves in front of each spinning unit 12 in order to carry out thereon and therewith the operations required. There may be other movable automatic servicing devices II but they are outlined and embodied here as an example in the automatic servicing devices I3 and I4, which comprise all the others. The automatic servicing devices II of the headstock consist, in our example, of two command headstocks I7 and I8 which are able to contain the actuators and regulating means controlling the functional units I2 of the O.E. spinning frame I9. The central coordination group IO can be positioned near the O.E. spinning frame I9 as in Figs. 5, 6 and 7 or far therefrom, this being irrelevant to the invention. Let us now see in detail a non restrictive example of the invention in which the carriage for reattachment I4 and the doffing carriage 13 alone are used as movable automatic servicing devices II. According to the improvements, at the beginning of new processing there are disposed in the whole assemblage con sisting of the functional units 12, the automatic servicing devices II and central coordination group IO the regulating parameters relative to the kind of production which it is wished to obtain and to the specific controlled machine or machines which will carry out this new operation. If wished, there can be in one single machine 19 functional units I2 operating variously and having individual parameters. The parameters can be transmitted by the central coordination group IO to the reattachment carriage I4 and doffing carriage I3 when said carriages begin to work or prepare to operate on the specific controlled machine I9 or specific portion of machine 19. Thus, for example, at the beginning of new processing or at the changing of a batch the reattachment carriage 14 receives the command to carry out reattachments on all the functional units in the O.E. spinning frame, on all the spinning units I2 in succession. The reattachment carriage I4 will then be temporarily fed with parameters and its activities will be individually related to the temporarily optimized functional unit 12. VAhen the machine is started and all the units 12 are in production, the reattachment carriage I4 and doffing carriage I3 can remain still or move at a determined patrolling speed, this being unimportant for the type of coordination used by the invention. given a functional unit I2 stops production because it needs any auxiliary operation or is about to stop product ion because it needs a specific operation for instance, the changing of a bobbin , the central coordination group IO is warned of this need and identifies the functional unit I2 making the request and the type of auxiliary operation needed. The indication of the need of a functional unit I2 is transmitted to the central coordination group IO by making use of a signal which contains at least the pilot variable In its minimum dimension as a signal the pilot variable must contain at least the address of the functional unit I2. Said address can be given in relation to the central coordination group IO or in relation to the movable auto matic servicing device II I3 or I4 which is required in the case in question. In both cases the minimum formulation of the pilot variable must contain at least the address of the movable automatic servicing device 13 or I4 and of the functional units I2 requiring the service. The central coordination group IO analyses the pilot variables which reach it, translates and perhaps transforms them and optimizes their parameters. According to a simplified formulation the carrier it self which conveys the signal can act as the element indi vi duali zing the pilot variable in its minimum form as an address. With the parameters optimized, the central group IO commands the movable carriage 13 or I4, namely the one suitable for carrying out the function required by the optimized unit I2, to go to said optimized functional unit I2 and in dicates to it the best way and optimal speed suitable for obtaining its positioning in the least possible time. For example, where a breakage of yarn takes place, the carriage activated will be the reattachment carriage 14,and when said carriage has reached the indicated position cor responding to the optimized functional unit I2 making the request, it carries out the reattachment cycle. If the reattachment is not successful after a given number of attempts, the carriage I4, according to the in dictations of the central coordination group IO, will be free to go or to patrol or to stay in the parking area or else to serve another functional unit, and the failure to make the reattachment will be signalled. If several functional units 12 stop production or re quest the same auxiliary operation at the same time or while the reattachment carriage 14 is already engaged with a func tonal unit I2, the central coordination group IO stores the signals, translates them and then sends commands to the reattachment carriage I4 in an optimal sequence as soon as said carriage I4 has ended the operation in progress or at once if said automatic servicing device I4 is free. The doffing procedure is conditioned by the precise requirements of the package, and therefore at least two cases can take place, namely a bobbin dimensions allowing a small tolerance b bobbin dimensions allowing a wide tolerance. According to the invention there can be envisaged in one and the same machine either the one or the other of these cases or both of them, with a selective position of commutation of the operational rule chosen and perhaps individually related to at least a part of the functional unit I2. According to the invention, where a bobbin is subject to a small tolerance, the attainment of the desired dimen simon, which is signalled through a footage indicator, for example, or electromechanical counting systems or dimens ional measurers or another known system is obtained by instigating a command to stop production of the functional unit I2 concerned and by arranging to request doffing at said unit. In effect, in the case of an O.E. spinning frame,since doffing is effected while the functional unit I2 is in pro duction, the action of the reattachnent carriage 14 is re quired before carrying out doffing itself. As a result, the central coordination group IO commands the two carriages for reattachment I4 and doffing I3 to be sent and to arrange in quick succession for production to be restarted and the bobbin to be discharged. If several bobbins reach the preset dimension at the same time, the system stores the signals, translates them and sends commands to the reattachment I4 and doffing 13 carriages in an optimal sequence. There a wide tolerance is permissible in the dimension of the bobbin, when the preset dimension is reached, the central coordination group IO sends to the functional unitI2 making the request therefor the doffing carriage I3, which discharges the bobbin, without sending beforehand the command to stop production. The doffing carriage I3 reaches the requesting unit on the basis of the optimized priority established by the cen trawl coordination group IO. During the time which passes between the attainment of the preset dimension and the arrival of the doffing carriage 13, the dimensional increase of the package can be checked. IS said increase is greater than the preset tolerance, the procedure can be started which has already been described in the case visualized for small permissible tolerances in the dimensions of a bobbin. According to the invention the individual carriages I3 and I4 can be equipped at least to read or translate given information needed for the better execution of the auxiliary operation and to take said information directly from the functional unit I2, and in this way a temporary direct link is obtained by the automatic servicing device II with the functional unit I2, and possibly viceversa, on which said automatic servicing device has been called upon tempo rarily to carry out an auxiliary function. Thus, for example, in the case of an O.E. spinning frame, where there is an automatic servicing device II that acts during the cleaning phase, said device may be able to read the speed of the rotor of the functional unit I2 during the deceleration phase. This reading can be done by analysing optical referen ces for instance, calibrated disks with light and dark sec tors or electromagnetic references magnetic, for example or of another type, solidly fixed to and or cooperating with the rotor itself. this link enables action to be taken for the properly called cleaning.when the speed of the rotor has reached an optimal value and, if the automatic servicing device II acts in the reattachment phase, for reattachment in the acceler ation phase. Pig. 8 shows with a diagram of blocks the types of signals and possible structures which intervene in a non restrictive example of a possible dialogue between the cen trawl coordination group IO and an automatic servicing deviceI3 or I4, or another device, and between the said central coordination group 10 and a functional unit 12. In said figure the movable automatic servicing devices 13, I4 and possibly others again, are generically identified with II, III, etc. In said example let us suppose that a functional unit I2 requires the action of a movable automatic servicing device II, such as a reattachment 14 or doffing I3 carrage for example, or another automatic servicing device II among those which can cooperate with the functional unit I2. In such a case some indicator means, which in our ex ample can consist of a sensor unit 20, read at leastJ9ne öne signal 24 and convert it at least into a pilot variable able to be transmitted by the functional unit I2 calling. Said signals, being contrived in such a way as to form at least the pilot variable and being expressed with prefer ential magnitudes, are transmitted by the sensor unit 20 with any possible disturbing factors eliminated. The signals and or messages 24 25, or others used in general, can be of any desired type e.g. analogue, digital, absolute, incremental, etc. and can be transmitted in series and or in parallel and or in combination with any suit able coding and decoding system according to the techniques used. The signals 25 may arrive at an auxiliary coordination group 21, which arranges to translate them and convert them into a signal or sequence of signals 26 so that they C an be understood by the central coordination group IO. According to a variant the identification of the functional unit I2 calling, through the pilot variable, can be done within the auxiliary coordination group 2I instead of within the sensor unit 20. After having translated and processed the signals 26, the central coordination group 10 seeks the optimal solut ion for the activation of the automatic servicing device II required and thereafter sends command signals 27 to the auxiliary coordination group 22. In said command signals 27 there must be at least the address the automatic servicing device II from which an action is required, and also the address of the optimized functional unit I2. here may also be included the command given the automatic servicing device to carry out the necessary auxiliary functions, together with all informat ion needed for carrying them out. The address of the automatic servicing device II has been obtained owing to the indicator means 23 I23, which have arranged to provide the auxiliary coordination group 22 with at least the pilot variable relative to the auto matic servicing device II.According to the invention the indicator means 23 I23 can monitor signals from the automatic servicing means II and also transmit to the automatic servicing means II the signals coming from the central coordination group. The auxiliary coordination group 22 arranges to con vert the signals 27 into messages 28 and conveys them to ards the automatic servicing device II required, using for this purpose the address contained in said signals 27. The indicator means 23 cooperate with the automatic servicing device II and arrange to convert in their turn that part of the message or messages able to make the automatic servicing device II act on the optimized functional unit I2.The direction of travel of the signals within the circuits of Fig. 8 can, if necessary, be also the opposite to that described in the exa rlple examined just now, and said signals will maintain the same physical conformation as that already seen in the various tracts of the circuit. The connection 30 makes clear the ability of the auto matic servicing device II to read or translate information and to monitor it directly from the functional unit 12. The lines of dashes entering or leaving 21 and 22 indicate the generalized extension to several functional units I2 and several automatic servicing devices II re spect lively. Fig. 8 shows and describes the auxiliary coordination groups 21 and 22 separately so as to simplify the desbript ion of the relationships existing between the central coord ination group IO on the once hand and a functional unit I2 and automatic servicing device II on the other hand.In actual fact the central coordination group IO can include structurally the auxiliary coordination groups 21 and 22. Thus it is possible to configure the blocks 20 and I2 with one single structure, and the blocks 23 and I4 with another single structure, and the blocks 123 and I3 with yet another single structure, so that the representation of the system of Fig. 8 can be remade according to that ofFig. 3 or, in accordance with a more generalized extension to several functional units and several automatic servicing devices, according to that of Pig. 4. By making use of Fig. 8 let us look at a non restrictive example wherein a functional unit I2 requires the action of a reattachment carriage 14 and doffing carriage 13 to carry out the auxiliary functions of doffing in a case where a wide tolerance is permissible in the dimension of the bobbin. The sensor unit 20 can, but not necessarily does, in dude a measuring means in which are preset at the start of processing or in the pre processing phase , by hand or by means of the central coordination group 10, at least the parameters corresponding to two dimensions. For example, one of said preset dimensions is equival ent to the length of the yarn for which the doffing action is requested, whereas the other dimension is equivalent to the length of yarn which, being perhaps obtained with the measuring means, determines the halting of the rotor, as described earlier. When the first of said dimensions is reached, the sensor unit 20 send to the group 21 the messages 25, which possibly contain the address of the functional unit I2, together with the request to carry out the auxiliary doffing funo tion. The auxiliary coordination group 21 converts the messages 25 into suitable signals 26 able to be received by the central coordination group 10. Said group IO identifies the position of said carriages I3 and I4, optimizes and determines all the operations to be performed in the case of a doffing and then sends the suitably configured signals 27 to the auxiliary coordination group 22. Said signals 27 contain the address of the reattachment carriage I4 and the address of the optimized functional unit 12, said addresses being perhaps associated with at least part of the information needed. In the specific case of an O.E. spinning frame, a part of the information needed could be a command to the carry age 13 to move in the direction of the functional unit 12 parameters of the speed of displacement of the carriage 13 for example, with the amplitude of the steps of the in crease and decrease in speed, times of application of the steps, etc. parameters for executing the actual doffing operation itself, etc. If the central coordination group IO deems it necessary, said signal 27 may also contain the address of the carriageI4,possibly associated with at least part of the necessary information, ind also the command given to the carriage 14 itself to raove in the direction of the optimized functional unit I2. In the specific case of an 0.E. spinning frame, a part of the necessary information may be parameters of the speed af displacenent of the carriage 14 parameters for the action of the carriage 14 in the cleaning phase together with, for instance, the comparison and control parameters inherent in the speed of the rotor to produce optimal cleaning and in the movements of the cleaning means, etc. parameters inherent in the performance of the actual reattachment funetion itself, etc. The auxiliary coordination group 22 receives the sig nals 27 and sends them, in the form of signals 28 and or I28 depending on the address associated with them, t b the the units 23 and or I23 respectively. The indicator means 23 receive the signals 28, store them and send them 29 thereafter in a suitable sequence to the actuators not shown in Fig. 8 of the carriage I4 so that the latter carries out the operation including the reading operations indicated with the reference 32 preset by the central coordination group 10. In a like way the indicator means I23 receive the signals I28, store them and send them I29 in a suitable sequ ence to the actuators not shown of the carriage 13. The same auxiliary coordination group 22 may possibly store the data contained in the messages 27 and send them them in an optimized sequence to the units 23 and I23. Owing to said messages the two carriages I4 ant I3 carry out the tasks assigned to them in an optimal manner and time and thereafter they position themselves one immedi ately behind the other before the functional unit I2. Having completed their prescribed tasks, the two carri geus 14 and I3 send to the central coordination group IO their address and the details of the position which they are going to take up while waiting for another call. The central coordination group 10 stores said data. The intercormlunication between the functional units I2 and automatic servicing devices II on the one hand and the central coordination group IO on the other hand may take place according to a preferential, non restrictive solution which envisages a continuous intercommunication between said structures. In such a case the central coordination group IO interrogates each functional unit I2 and each automatic servicing device II in sequence and cyclically and receives from them at once an answer which may be nothing or which may contain a request to perform an auxiliary function or which may contain only informative data. Alternatively the central coordination group TO may be activated only when there is a request from a functional unit I2 for an auxiliary operation. In such a case the central coordination group IO in vestigates any missing details and presets the optimization of the operations. We have described the invention here but variants are possible. Thus the types of signals used, the types of structures, the types of auxiliary operations required, the auxiliary units, etc. can be varied. It is possible to add i remove, replace or integrate parts, etc. According to the invention it is possible to set the working parameters and operational rules relative to at least part of the functional units I2. According to the invention it is also possible to set the working parameters and operational rules relative to at least part of the automatic servicing devices II and to in dividualize said parameters and rules to suit the needs of the functional units I2. It is also possible to envisage correction of at least part of the operational parameters during working and after having ascertained the results on the rroduct. These and other variants are all possible for a teclmician in this field within the scope of the idea of the solution.