# Improved process for producing 1,3 bis 2 pyridylimino isoindolines and compositions containing transition metal complexes thereof.

## Abstract
There are disclosed an improved process for preparing a composition consisting essentially of at least one transition metal complex of a 1,3 bis 2 pyridylimino isoindoline com prising contacting in a molten phase a 1,2 dicyanobenzene with at least one 2 aminopyridine in the presence of a transition metal complex and an improved process for preparing the 1,3 bis 2 pyridylimino isoindoline ligand from the same starting materials comprising contacting in a molten phase said starting materials, optionally in the presence of an alkaline earth metal carbonate.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for preparing a composition consisting essentially of at least one transition metal complex having the formulaEMI21.1 wherein M is a divalent transition metal selected from Co, Mn, Fe, Ni, Pd, Zn, Cu or Ru X is a carboxylate group 3 R2 R3 R4, R5, and R6 are independently hydrogen, lower alkyl, lower alkoxyalkyl, phenyl, benzyl, or phenethyl or any two adjacent members of R1 through R6 are jointly four CH entities of a benzene ring fused to the pyridine ring R7, R81 R9 and R10 are independently hydrogen, lower alkyl or lower alkoxyalkyl or any two adjacent members of R7 through R10 can jointly be four CH entities of a benzene ring fused to the benzene ring of the isoindoline moiety with the proviso that the values of R1 through R10 can be different for each ligand comprising contacting in a molten phase a 1,2 dicyanobenzene of the formulaEMI22.1 where R7 through Rlu are as previously defined, with at least one 2 aminopyridine of the formulaEMI22.2 wherein R1 through R3 are as previously defined, in the presence of a transition metal, M, carbonate or a carboxylate of the formula MX2 where M and X are as previously defined, and optionally in the presence of an alkaline earth metal carbonate,at a temperature of from about 1000 3000C. 2. The process of Claim 1 where M is Co,Mn or Fe or a combination thereof and the transition metal complex is of formula I. 3. The process of claim 2 wherein the temperature is from about 150 to 2200C. 4. The process of Claim 3 wherein the mole ratio of transition metal carbonate or carboxylate to 1,2 dicyanobenzene to 2 aminopyridine is about 1 1 2. 5. The process of Claim 3 wherein R7 throughR10 are independently lower alkyl or hydrogen. 6. The process of Claim 5 wherein R1 throughR6 are independently hydrogen, methyl or t butyl. 7. The process of Claim 6 wherein any two of R1, R2 and R3 and any two of R4, R5 and R6 are hydrogen, and R7 through R10 are hydrogen 8. The process of Claim 7 wherein R1 and R4 are methyl. 9. The process of Claim 7 wherein R and R5 are t butyl. 10. The process of Claim 6 wherein R1 throughR10are hydrogen. 11. A process for preparing a compound of the formula EMI24.1 wherein R11 R2, R3, R4, R5 and R6 are independently hydrogen, lower alkyl, lower alkoxyalkyl, phenyl, benzyl or phenethyl or any two adjacent members of R1 through R6 are jointly four CH entities of a benzene ring fused to the pyridine ring and R7 through R10 are independently hydrogen, lower alkyl or lower alkoxyalkyl or any two adjacent members of R7 through R10 can jointly be four CH entities of a benzene ring fused to the benzene ring of the isoindoline moiety comprising contacting in a molten phase a 1,2dicyanobenzene of the formulaEMI24.2 where R7 through R10 are as previously defined, with at least one 2 aminopyridine of the formulaEMI25.1 wherein R1 through R3 are as previously defined, optionally in the presence of an alkaline earth metal carbonate at a temperature of from about 1500 3000C. 12. The process of Claim 11 wherein the temperature is from about 1700 2200C. 13. The process of Claim 12 wherein the alkaline earth metal carbonate is present in a mole percentage of from about 0 20 based on the 1, 2 dicyanobenzene. 14. The process of Claim 12 wherein 1,2dicyanobenzene and the 2 aminopyridine are present in a mole ratio of about 1 2 respectively. 15. The process of Claim 12 wherein R7 through are are independently hydrogen or lower alkyl. 16. The process of Claim 15 wherein R1 throughR3 are independently hydrogen, methyl or t butyl. 17. The process of Claim 16 wherein any two of R , RR2 and R3 are hydrogen and 7 through R10 are hydrogen. 1. 18. The process of Claim 17 wherein R1 is methyl. 19. The process of Claim 17 wherein R is t butyl. 1 The process of Claim 16 wherein R1 2 20. The process of Claim 16 wherein R1, R2 and d and R7, R8 R9 and R10 are hydrogen.

## Description
TITLE IMPROVED PROCESS FOR PRODUCING 1,3 BIs 2 PYRIDYLIMINO ISOINDOLINES AND COMPOSITIONS CONTAINING TRANSITION METAL COMPLEXES THEREOF BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONField of the Invention This invention relates to an improved process for preparing a composition containing a l,3 bis 2pyridylimino isoindoline transition metal complex and an improved process for the preparation of the isoindoline ligand themselves. More specifically, this invention is related to the direct production of these transition metal complexes from l,2 dicyanobenzene and 2 aminopyridines and to the production of the ligand themselves from the same starting materials.Description of the Prior Art Siegl, J. Org. Chem. 42, 1872 1977 , discloses the preparation bf 1,3 bis arylimino isoindolines, in specific the 1,3 bis 2 pyridylimino compounds, by reacting a primary aromatic amine with phthalonitrile in alcoholic solvent using as a catalyst an alkaline earth metal salt, such as CaC12, Mg C104 2 or MgI2. Reaction times of 24 48 hours are given. The reference also discloses that metal chelate complexes, MLX, can be prepared directly by using certain divalent transition metal acetates and chlorides to facilitate the addition of primary aromatic amines to phthalonitrile.Specifically mentioned are complexes such as the l,3 bis 2pyridylimino isoindoline complexes where 1 M is Co,Ni or Zn and X is acetate 2 M is Ni and X is chloride and 3 the Cu complex of l,3 bis 4 methylpyridylimino isoindoline where X is acetate. Reaction times of 6 48 hours were given. Elvidge and Linstead, J. Chem. Soc., 5000 and 5008 1952 , disclose the preparation of arylimino isoindolines including 1,3 bis 2 pyridylimino iso indoline from diiminoisoindoline and 2 aminopyridine.Certain metal complexes are also disclosed. Robinson et al, Inorg. Chem., 6, 392 1967 , disclose the preparation of l,3 bis 2 pyridylimino isoindoline by refluxing 2 aminopyridine and 1,3 diiminoisoindoline in butanol for 4 hours. The reference also discloses the preparation of transition metal complexes of this ligand by reacting the preformed ligand with the transition metal perchlorate, chloride or acetate. Gagne et al, Inorg. Chem., 18, 771 1979 , disclose the preparation of 1,3 bis 2 4 methylpyridyl imino isoindoline, the complex of this ligand with copper acetate and a Cu I carbonyl complex of the ligand. Prior art processes for the preparation of the 1,3 bis 2 pyridylimino isoindoline compounds require, in general, somewhat long reaction times, present difficult solvent separation problems and or produce a product having a halide as an impurity. The presence of a halide is undesirable if the product is to be used to prepare a catalyst for reactions which are run in stainless steel equipment. A process which avoids any or all of these drawbacks would fulfill a definite commercial need. Moreover, for the preparation of transition metal complexes of l,3 bis 2 pyridylimino isoindolines the prior art processes involve the reaction of a suitable metal salt with a preformed ligand. A direct synthesis preparation would offer a more efficient and possibly attractive commercial process. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The present invention provides an improved process for preparing a composition consisting essentially of at least one transition metal complex of a l,3 bis 2 pyridylimino isoindoline of a particular formula specified herein, comprising contacting in a molten phase a 1,2 dicyanobenzene with at least one 2 aminopyridine in the presence of a transition metal,M, carbonate or carboxylate, wherein M is Co, Mn,Fe, Ni, Pd, Zn, Cu and Ru, optionally in the presence of an alkaline earth metal carbonate, at a temperature of from about 1000 3000C. The invention further provides an improved process for preparing the 1,3bis 2 pyridylimino isoindoline ligand of the formula specified herein comprising contacting in a molten phase a l,2 dicyanobenzene with at least one 2 aminopyridine, optionally in the presence of an alkaline earth metal carbonate, at a temperature of from about 1500 3000C. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION The process of the invention offers a direct route to compositions containing transition metal complexes of a l,3 bis 2 pyridylimino isoindoline. The transition metal complexes prepared by the present process have the formula EMI4.1 where in M is a diva lent transition metal selected from Co, Mn, Fe, Ni, Pd, Zn, Cu and Ru X is a carboxylate group, such as acetate, propionate, decanoate, adipate, 2 ethylhexanoate octoate , naphthenate, octanoate, or 4 cyclohexylbutyrate R1, R2, R3, R4, R5, and R6 are independently hydrogen, lower alkyl, lower alkoxyalkyl, phenyl, benzyl, or phenethyl or any two adjacent members of R1 through R6 are jointly four CH entities of a benzene ring fused to the pyridine ring R7, R8, 9 and R10 are independently hydrogen, lower alkyl or lower alkoxyalkyl or any two adjacent members of R7 through R10 can jointly be four CH entities of a benzene ring fused to the benzene ring of the isoindoline moiety with the proviso that the values of R1 through R10 can be different for each ligand. The transition metal complexes produced by the present process can alternatively be represented by formulae A or B EMI5.1 EMI6.1 wherein R1 through 10 wherein R1 through , and M are as previously defined. As used herein lower alkyl means alkyl of 1 6 carbon atoms and lower alkoxyalkyl can have from R1 2 6 carbon atoms. The preferred values of R1 throughR6 are hydrogen, methyl and t butyl. Due to availability of starting materials, preferably at least one of R1,R2 and R3 and at least one of R4, R5 and R6 are hydrogen and more preferably at least two of each set of theseR groups are hydrogen. Most preferably at least one of each set of these R groups is methyl or R2 and R5 are t butyl and the other of these R groups are hydrogen.Again due to availability of starting materials, R7 through R10 are preferably hydrogen, methyl or t butyl.Preferably M is Co, Mn or Fe and most preferablyM is Co. X is preferably a carboxylate having up to 20 carbon atoms and most preferably is acetate, octoate or naphthenate because of industrial availability. Examples of compositions produced by the process of the invention are the cobalt, nickel, iron, and ruthenium derivatives of 1,3 bis 2 pyridylimino isoindoline, the cobalt derivative being formulated here in abbreviated form as Co BPI 2 and the cobalt, nickel, iron, ruthenium derivatives of l,3 bis 3 methyl 2pyridylimino isoindoline, 1,3 bis 3,4 dimethyl 2pyridylimino isoindoline, 1,3 bis 3 ethyl 2 pyridyl imino isoindoline, 1,3 bis 3 butyl 2 pyridylimino isoindoline, 1, 3 bis 4 pentyl 2 pyridylimino isoindoline, 1, 3 bis 4 isohexyl 2 pyridylimino isoindoline, 1,3bis 5 phenyl 2 pyridylimino isoindoline, 5 t butyl1,3 bis 2 pyridylimino isoindoline, 4,7 dimethyl 1,3bis 3 methyl 2 pyridylimino isoindoline, 4,5,6 trimethyl 1,3 bis 2 pyridylimino isoindoline, 4,5,6,7tetrakis t pentyl 1,3 bis 2 pyridylimino isoindoline, 4 hexyl l, 3 bis 2 pyridylimino isoindoline, and 1,3 bis l isoquinolylimino isoindoline. The most preferred compositions, because of availability of starting materials and catalytic activity, areCo BPI 2, the cobalt derivative of 1,2 bis 3 methyl2 pyridylimino isoindoline Co 3MeBPI 2 , and a mixture of cobalt II derivatives of bis monomethyl 2 pyridyl imino isoindolines made from a mixture of 2 amino 3 , 4 , and 5 methylpyridines as one of the starting materials. The composition can be single complexes, mixture of isomers, or a mixture of complexes and does not need to be separated from reaction by products in order to be used as a catalyst. The process for preparing these transition metal complexes comprises contacting in the molten phase a l,2 dicyanobenzene of the formulaEMI7.1 where R7 through R10 are as previously defined, with at least one 2 aminopyridine of the formulaEMI8.1 wherein R1 3 wherein R1 through R3 are as previously defined, in the presence of a transition metal, M, carbonate or a carboxylate of the formula MX2 where M and X are as previously defined, and optionally in the presence of an alkaline earth metal carbonate at a temperature of from about l000 3000C. Preferably, in the present process for making the complexes the temperature is from about 1500C to about 2200C. The optimum temperature will vary with the metal involved in that copper, zinc, palladium and iron usually react at lower temperatures than nickel, cobalt and manganese. The ratio of the reactants is not critical and will usually be about 1 1 2 for the molar ratio of transition metal carbonate or carboxylate 1, 2 dicyanobenzene 2 aminopyridine. Optionally, there can be used as a promoter in the process of the invention an alkaline earth metal carbonate wherein the alkaline earth metal is magnesium, calcium, strontium or barium or any mixture thereof.The alkaline earth metal carbonate can be present in an amount of from 0 208 based on the transition metal carbonate or carboxylate. Reaction time will vary inversely with temperature and will depend on the transition metal carbonate being used as a reactant. Reaction times of from a few minutes to about five hours are common. Starting materials for the process of the invention are commercially available. The 2 aminopyridine can be a single compound or can be a mixture of isomers, such as a mixture of 2 amino 3 , 4 , and 5 methylpyridines. The process of the invention offers a onestep synthesis which does not use preformed ligand or solvent and gives a halide free product. The compositions produced by the process of the invention are useful as catalyst in the decomposition of cyclohexyl hydroperoxide as described in part in copending application Serial No. 184,635 Attorney s DocketNo. CR 7856 A , filed simultaneously herewith. Another aspect of the present invention is an improved process for producing 1,3 bis 2 pyridylimino isoindolines. The 1,3 bis 2 pyridylimino isoindoline compounds prepared by the improved process of the invention have the formulaEMI9.1 wherein R1, R2, R3, R , R5 and R are independently hydrogen, lower alkyl, lower alkoxyalkyl, phenyl, benzyl or phenethyl or any two adjacent members of R1 through R6 are jointly four CH entities of a benzene ring fused to the pyridine ring R7 10 through R10 are independently hydrogen, lower alkyl or lower alkoxyalkyl or any two R7 10 adjacent members of R7 through R10 can jointly be four CH entities of a benzene ring fused to the benzene ring of the isoindoline moiety. R1 through R10 have the preferred values previously given for the transition metal complexes.Isoindoline compounds produced by the process of the invention include 1,3 bis 2 pyridylimino isoindoline HBPI 1,3 bis 3 methyl 2 pyridylimino isoindoline, isomers and mixtures thereof 1,3 bis 3,4 dimethyl 2 pyridylimino isoindoline 1,3 bis 3 ethyl 2 pyridylimino isoindoline 1, 3 bis 3 butyl 2 pyridylimino isoindoline 1, 3 bis 4 pentyl 2 pyridylimino isoindoline 1,3 bis 4 isohexyl 2 pyridylimino isoindoline 1,3 bis 5 phenyl 2 pyridylimino isoindoline, 5 t butyl 1,3 bis 2 pyridylimino isoindoline 4,7 dimethyl 1,3 bis 3methyl 2 pyridylimino isoindoline 4,5,6 trimethyl 1,3 bis 2 pyridyliminoisoindoline 4,5,6,7 tetrakis t pentyl 1, 3 bis 2 pyridylimino isoindoline 4 hexyl1, 3 bis 2 pyridylimino isoindoline, and 1,3 bis lisoquinolylimino isoindoline. In the process of the invention the 1,3bis 2 pyridylimino isoindoline compound is prepared by contacting in the molten phase a 1,2 dicyanobenzene of the formulaEMI10.1 10 where R7 through R10 are as previously defined, with at least one 2 aminopyridine of the formula EMI11.1 wherein R1 through Rj are as previously defined, optionally in the presence of an alkaline earth metal carbonate, at a temperature of from about 1500 3000C. Preferably the temperature is from about 1700 2200C. Reactant ratios are not critical and will usually be 1 2 for the molar ratio 1,2 dicyanobenzene to 2 aminopyridine. A slight excess of the 2aminopyridine can help increase the yield however, use of excess 2 aminopyridine must be balanced against the need to recover unreacted material. The amount of alkaline earth metal carbonate used in the present process is from about 0 20 mole based on the 1,2 dicyanobenzene reactant. As with the production of the transition metal complex, the alkaline earth metal of the carbonate can be magnesium, calcium, strontium or barium or any mixture thereof. Reaction time will vary inversely with temperature and with the percent of molar excess, if any, of the 2 aminopyridine compound. Usually, the reaction time will be from about 2 10 hours. The present process for preparing a 1,3bis 2 pyridylimino isoindoline compound provides a solvent free, halide free, synthesis offering reduced reaction times as compared to prior art processes. The compounds produced can be converted by known methods to transition metal chelates which are useful as catalysts for the decomposition of cyclohexyl hydroperoxide. The invention is further illustrated by the following examples in which temperatures are in degreesCentigrade and percentages are by weight unless otherwise stated. EXAMPLE 1 Preparation of 1,3 bis 3 methyl 2 pyridylimino isoindoline lH3MeBPI3 A mixture of 64.07 g 0.5 mole of 1,2 dicyanobenzene, 123.9 g 1.15 mole of 2 amino 3 methylpyridine, and 6.5 g 0.065 mole of calcium carbonate was heated with stirring under nitrogen at about 1800 for seven hours, after which the resulting melt was poured into 1.5 1 of methanol, thereby causing the precipitation of a solid. The solid was separated by filtration, washed with methanol1 and dried under reduced pressure to give 96.7 g 59 of H3MeBPI. The product was shown to be pure by its proton NMR spectrum in deutorochloroform. EXAMPLE 2 Preparation of H3MeBPI A glass pressure vessel equipped with a stirrer and a pressure gauge was charged with 12.8 g 0.10 mole of 1,2 dicyanobenzene, 23.6 g 0.22 mole of 2 amino 3 methylpyridine, and 1.5 g 0.015 mole of calcium carbonate. The vessel was sealed and placed in an oil bath at 2100. The resulting mixture was stirred for 3 hours and 20 minutes at an oil bath temperature of about 192 210 . During this time the pressure in the vessel gradually rose from 0 psig OkPa to 34 psig 234 kPa . The pressure rise corresponded to the formation of by product ammonia. The mixture was cooled to room temperature and allowed to stand for two days. It was then digested with about 50 ml of methanol and was filtered to obtain a solid which was washed with about 100 ml of methanol and dried under reduced pressure to give 13.4 g 41 of H3MeBPI. EXAMPLE 3 Preparation of H3MeBPI A mixture of 12.8 g 0.10 mole of 1,2dicyanobenzene, 23.4 g 0.22 mole of 2 amino 3methylpyridine, and 1.5 g 0.015 mole of calcium carbonate was reacted by a procedure similar to that described in Example 2, except that the reaction mixture was heated in the oil bath for five hours at an oil bath temperature of 196 2050C and the pressure gradually rose from 0 psig to 48 psig 331 kPa .The yield of H3MeBPI was 19.7 g 60 , EXAMPLE 4 Preparation of H3MeBPI A glass reactor open to the atmosphere was charged with 12.8 g 0.10 mole of 1,2 dicyanobenzene, 32.4 g 0.30 mole of 2 amino 3 methylpyridine, and 1.5 g 0.015 mole of calcium carbonate to provide a mixture which was then blanketed with nitrogen. The reactor was placed in an oil bath at 1880 and stirring was started. The oil bath temperature was raised to 1950 over a 15 minute period. The mixture was heated for 4.75 hr under nitrogen with stirring at an oil bath temperature of 194 1950 and a reaction temperature of 178 182 . The resulting product was cooled to room temperature and worked up as in a manner similar to that described in Example 2. The yield of H3MeBPI was 26.1 g 80 . The product was extracted with methylene chloride, and the extracts were evaporated to dryness.The residual solid was 22.1 g 68 of H3MeBPI, which was shown to be pure by its proton NMR spectrum. EXAMPLE 5 Preparation of H3MeBPI and Conversion to Cobalt II Derivative of 1,3 Bis 3 methyl 2 pyridylimino isoindoline fCo 3MeBPI 2 A glass flask equipped with mechanical stirrer, and condenser, was charged with 1,2 dicyanobenzene 30 g, 0.23 mole and 2 amino 3 methylpyridine 50.64 g, 0.468 mole . The flask was placed in an oil bath which was then heated to 2100 for 3 hr reaction temperature 194 1960 . Measurement of ammonia evolution indicated that conversion to H3MeBPI ceased after 3 hr. At this point, NMR indicated greater than 80 conversion toH3MeBPI. This product was used to make a transition metal complex as described below. After cooling to ambient temperature, 75 ml of toluene was added to the product to improve stirring. The temperature was then increased to 800 and sodium hydroxide 9.36, 0.23 mole in methanol 45 ml was added. To the resulting slurry was then added, in one portion, cobalt acetate 28.57, 0.12 mole in 300 ml of methanol. The resulting brick red slurry was heated for 1 hr. The mixture was then cooled to 400 and Co 3MeBPI 2 was separated by filtration through a coarse porosity fritten disc funnel and washed with 300 ml of methanol followed by 150 ml of diethyl ether to facilitate drying. The yield ofCo 3MeBPI 2 was 81.6 g 96 . EXAMPLE 6 Preparation of Mixed Methyl HBPI and Conversion to Co Mixed MeBPI 2 A glass flask equipped with condenser, magnetic stir bar, thermometer and nitrogen inlet was charged with 1,2 dicyanobenzene 32 g, 0.25 mole , aminated mixed methylpyridines 54.07, 0.5 mole 55 2 amino 3methylpyridine and 45 2 amino 4 methylpyridine, by proton NMR and calcium carbonate 5 g, 0.05 mole .The flask containing the resulting mixture was placed in a 2050 oil bath and heated for 5 hr, 15 min to obtain a melt. The resulting melt was cooled to1500, then poured into 1.2 1 of methanol to obtain a green solution to which was added sodium hydroxide 9.05, 0.23 mole followed by cobalt acetate 27.97 g, 0.112 mole . After stirring at ambient temperature the methanol was removed in vacuo to yield a crystalline brick red product which was a mixture of different isomeric Co MeBPI 2 species. EXAMPLE 7 Preparation of Co 3MeBPI 2 A mixture of 12.8 g 0.10 mole of 1,2dicyanobenzene, 23.6 g 0.21 mole of 2 amino 3 methylpyridine, and 6.0 g 0.05 mole of cobalt carbonate was heated under nitrogen in an oil bath at 125 135 for 1 hour and 23 minutes, after which it was poured while still hot into about 400 ml of methanol thereby causing formation of a solid. The resulting mixture was stirred for about two minutes and filtered to obtain the solid which was dried under reduced pressure to give 5.8 g 16 of Co 3MeBPI 2, identified by its protonNMR spectrum. EXAMPLE 8 Preparation of Co 3MeBPI 2 This example was performed using a procedure substantially similar to that described in Example 7, except that twice as much of each reactant was used and the resulting mixture was heated in an oil bath at about l70D for 5 3 hours and was cooled to room temperature before being combined with methanol. The yield of Co 3MeBPI , again identified by its protonNMR spectrum, was 25.0 g 37 . EXAMPLE 9 Preparation of Co 3MeBPI 2 A glass reactor equipped with a stirrer and thermometer was charged with 12.8 g 0.10 mole of 1,2 dicyanobenzene, 23.6 g 0.21 mole of 2 amino 3methylpyridine, 5.9 g 0.05 mole of cobalt carbonate, and 1.5 g 0.015 mole of calcium carbonate. The resulting mixture was placed in an oil bath at 1120 and heated with stirring under nitrogen. The oil bath temperature was raised to 1820C over 35 minutes and was then held at 180 194 for 50 minutes, thereby maintaining a reaction mixture temperature of 143 172 . The mixture was solidified by cooling. The resulting solid product was washed with methanol and digested at room temperature with methylene chloride to provide a mixture which was filtered to give a filtrate which was evaporated to dryness, yielding 5.4 g 15 of Co 3MeBPI 2. EXAMPLES 10 13 These examples show the effect which a change in the reaction time has on the yield. A procedure substantially similar to that described in Example 9 was used with the exceptions noted in the following table where the results are also summarized. The data for Example 9 are included for comparison. For Examples 11 13 the solid product was washed with petroleum ether instead of being extracted with methylene chloride. TABLE Reaction Bath Mixture Time Grams of Example Temp C Temp OC Hr Min Product Yield 9 180 194 143 172 0 50 5.4 15 10 170 186 137 200 1 35 13.7 38 11 181 190 154 185 2 43 20.4 57 12 188 191 173 186 3 43 23.0 65 13 181 187 175 180 4 43 21.0 59 In Examples 14 16 all reactions were conducted in a 250 ml flask equipped with a thermometer, stirrer and a nitrogen inlet. Reaction mixtures were heated with a controlled oil bath. In these examples the expression M 3MeBPI 2 represents the transition metal complex of 1, 3 bis 3 methyl 2 pyridylimino isoindoline. EXAMPLE 14 Preparation of Cu 3MeBPI 2 The reaction vessel was charged with 12.8 g 0.10 mole of 1,2 dicyanobenzene, 23.6 g 0.21 mole of 2 amino 3 methylpyridine, 6.12 g 0.05 mole of basic copper carbonate, Cu2 CO3 OH 2, and 1.5 g 0.015 mole of calcium carbonate to provide a reaction mixture which was heated under nitrogen at an oil bath temperature of 1350 for 24 minutes. The resulting product was washed with 200 ml of methanol, then with 200 ml of petroleum ether and finally with 800 ml of dichloromethane and then dried to give 17.87 g 49.9 of crystalline Cu 3MeBPI 2 EXAMPLE 15 Preparation of Zn 3MeBPI 2 The ingredients added to the reactibn vessel were substantially similar to those of Example 14, however 6.21 g 0.05 mole of ZnCO3 was used instead of basic copper carbonate.The reaction mixture was heated for 32 minutes at an oil bath temperature of 1600 to yield a brilliant green product which was washed with 200 ml of methanol and 500 ml of dichloromethane.The washed product was extracted with 500 ml of hot chloroform to provide an extract solution which was filtered. The resulting filtrate was evaporated to dryness to give 11.5 g 32 of brilliant yellowZn 3MeBPI 2. EXAMPLE 16 Preparation of Ni 3MeBPI 2 The ingredients added to the reaction vessel were substantially similar to those used in Example 14 except that 6.00 g 0.05 mole of NiCO3 was employed instead of basic copper carbonate. The reaction mixture was heated at an oil bath temperature of 1500 to yield a red brown product which was washed with 300 ml of methanol and 750 ml of dichloromethane to give 3.05 g 8.5 of orange, crystalline Ni 3MeBPI 2. EXAMPLE 17 In situ Preparation of Co 3MeBPI 2 A 500 ml glass pressure vessel equipped with a magnetic stirrer and a pressure gauge was charged with l,2 dicyanobenzene 12.8 g, 0.10 mole , 2 amino 3methylpyridine 21.6 g, 0.20 mole , calcium carbonate 1.5 g, 0.015 mole , and cobalt octoate cobalt bis 2ethyl hexanoate 17.26 g, 0.05 mole . The vessel was sealed and placed in an oil bath at 1530. The resulting mixture quickly became thick and after 20 minutes, turned into a solid reaction mass. After cooling to ambient temperature, a small portion of the resulting crude reaction mixture was tested as a catalyst for cyclohexylhydroperoxide decomposition and found to be active. To assess the yield of Co 3MeBPI 2 in the catalyst mixture, work up was continued. The reaction mass was suspended in methanol 300 ml and filtered to obtain a solid which was dried under vacuum yielding 27.9 g 79 of Co 3MeBPI 2 that was identified byNMR. EXAMPLE 18 In Situ Preparation of Co BPI 2 A glass flask equipped with magnetic stirring bar was charged with 1,2 dicyanobenzene 12.8 g, 0.10 mole , 2 aminopyridine 18.8 g, 0.20 mole , calcium carbonate 1.5 g, 0.015 mole and cobalt octoate 17.3 g, 0.05 mole . The mixture was heated in an oil bath to 150 1550. The resulting purple slurry rapidly turned brown and in 17 minutes had become a gelatinous brown reaction mass, after which heating was discontinued.This product was an active catalyst for the decomposition of cyclohexylhydroperoxide. EXAMPLE 19 In Situ Preparation of Fe 3MeBPI 2 A glass flask equipped with stirring bar, thermometer and bubbler was charged with 1,2 dicyano benzene 12.8 g, 0.1 moles , 2 amino 3 methylpyridine 21.6 g, 0.2 moles , and ferrous naphthenate 19.9 g, 0.05 moles . The flask was placed in an oil bath which was heated to 1650C. The reaction was slightly exothermic, the temperature of the contents of the flask rising to 1750C. Measurement of ammonia evolution indicated that the reaction was complete after 50 minutes. The resulting mixture was cooled to room temperature to obtain 51.76 g of composition which contained 29.1 g 82 Fe 3MeBPI 2 as measured after filtration, washing with petroleum ether, and drying. EXAMPLE 20 In Situ Preparation of Co 3MeBPI 2 Fe 3MeBPI 2 The procedure used in this example was substantially similar to that of Example 19 except that ferrous naphthenate 6.56 g and cobalt octoate 11.59 g were used. The oil bath was at 1600 and the reaction exothermed to 1730. Gas evolution ceased after 30 minutes. Crystalline product was observed in the viscous reaction mixture. The yield of reaction mixture was 44.9 g which contained 26.1 g 75 of dark red brown crystals that were a mixture of Co 3MeBPI 2 andFe 3MeBPI 2. EXAMPLE 21 In Situ Preparation of Co 3MeBPI Acetate A glass flask was charged with 2 amino 3 methylpyridine 54.0 g, 0.50 mole , 1,2 dicyanobenzene 32.0 g, 0.25 mole and cobalt acetate 31 g, 0.125 mole . The flask was placed in a 1600 oil bath and the contents of the flask melted. Within 5 minutes, the contents of the flask had become a brick red solid mass indicating extensive conversion toCo 3MeBPI acetate .