# Antibacterial composition of thienamycin type compound and a dipeptidase inhibitor.

## Abstract
Novel compounds of the general formula

## Claims
WHAT WE CLAIMED IS 1. Compounds of the general formulaEMI37.1 wherein R2 is 2,2 dimethylcyclopropyl or 2,2 dichlorocyclopropyl R1 is hydrogen, loweralkyl of 1 6 carbon atoms, dialkylaminoalkyl, or a pharma ceutically acceptable cation R3 is a hydrocarbon chain of 3 7 carbon atoms, optionally having a terminal substituent which is trimethylammonium, amidino, guanidino, 2 aiiino 2 carboxyethylthio, or ureido. 2. A compound of Claim 1 in which R1 is dialkylamino alkyl with 1 to 6 carbon atoms in each alkyl group. 3. A compound of Claim 1 in the Z configuration wherein R2 is 2 ,2 dimethylcyclopropyl R1 is hydrogen, loweralkyl of 1 6 carbon atoms, dialkyl aminoalkyl with 1 6 carbon atoms in each alkyl group, or a pharmaceutically acceptable cation R3 is an alkylene chain of 3 7 carbon atoms, having a terminal substituent which is 2 amino 2 carboxy ethylthio. 4. A compound of Claim 1 which is Z 8 I 2 amino 2 carboxyethylthio 2 2, 2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxamido 2 octenoic acid. 5. A compound of Claim 1 which is Z 7 I 2 amino 2 carboxyethylthio 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxamido 2 heptenoic acid. 6. The compound of Claims 4 or 5 in the sodium, potassium, calcium or magnesium salt form. 7. An antibacterial composition comprising a thienamycin type compound and a compound according to anyone of Claims 1 to 6. 8. The antibacterial composition of Claim 7 comprising Z 7 2 amino 2 carboxyethylthio 2 2,2 dimethyl cyclopropanecarboxamido 2 heptenoic acid or its sodium, potassium, magnesium or calcium salt and N formimidoyl thienamycin. Claims for Austria 1. Process for preparing compounds of the general formulaEMI39.1 wherein R2 is 2,2 dimethylcyclopropyl or 2,2dichlorocyclopropyl R1 is hydrogen, loweralkyl of 1 6 carbon atoms, dialkylaminoalkyl, or a pharmaceutically acceptable cation R3 is a hydrocarbon chain of 3 7 carbon atoms, optionally having a terminal substituent which is trimethylammonium, amidino, guanidino, 2 amino 2 carboxyethylthio, or ureido, which comprises either a condensing directly an t bromo or o chloro alkenoic acid compound of the general formulaEMI39.2 wherein n is from 3 7 and cysteine . HCl, trimethylamine, amidino or guanidino or b reacting a chloro keto ester intermediate EMI40.1 with the desired atide EMI40.2 hydrolyzing the resulting intermediate to the acid and displacing the chloro group by reaction with cysteine. 2. Process according to Claim I for preparing a compound of Claim 1 in which R1 is dialkylamino alkyl with 1 to 6 carbon atoms in each alkyl group. 3. Process according to Claim 1 for preparing a compound of Claim 1 in the Z configuration wherein R2 is 2,2 dimethylcyclopropyl R1 is hydrogen, loweralkyl of 1 6 carbon atoms, dialkyl aminoalkyl with 1 6 carbon atoms in each alkyl group, or a pharmaceutically acceptable cation R3 is an alkylene chain of 3 7 carbon atoms, having a terminal substituent which is 2 amino 2 carboxy ethylthio. 4. Process according to Claim 1 for preparing a compound of Claim 1 which is Z 8 1 2 amino 2 carboxyethylthio 2 2 , 2 dimethyl cyclopropanecarboxamido 2 octenoic acid. 5. Process according to Claim 1 for preparing a compound of Claim 1 which is Z 7 l 2 amino 2 carboxyethylthio 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxamido 2 heptenoic acid. 6. Process according to Claim 1 for preparing a compound of Claims 4 or 5 in the sodium, potassium, calcium or magnesium salt form.

## Description
Z a SUBSTITUTED 2 t CYCLOPROPANE CARBOXAMIDO 2 ALKENOIC ACIDS, THEIR ESTERS AND SALTSAND ANTIBACTERIAL COMPOSITIONS COMPRISING THE SAMEAND A THIENAMYCIN TYPE COMPOUNDINTRODUCTION A new class of fused ring B lactam antibiotics, including thienamycin and its semisynthetic derivatives, epithienamycins, and olivanic acids, has recently been described. These compounds which will be defined more extensively below, are hereinafter referred to as the thienamycin class.of compounds .These compounds have a high level of antibacterial activity, but are subject to extensive metabolism by mammalian species. The kidney was identified as the primary site of metabolism, and an enzyme was purified from renal extracts which catalyzed the inactivation of thiena mycin by hydrolysis of the ss lactam. By such criteria as cytological localization, substrate specificity and susceptibility to enzyme inhibitors, this enzyme is very similar if not identical to a widely studied renal dipeptidase E.C.3.4.13.11 , also referred to in the literature as dehydro peptidaseb However, the ss lactamase activity is exhibited only toward the thienamycin class of compounds.Indeed, there exists no precedent example of the mammalian metabolism via 8 lactam cleavage of any representative of the classical lactam antibiotics, the penicillins and cephalosporins. DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION The chemical substance which selectively inhibits the metabolism of the dipeptidase .C.3.4.13.1 , also called dipeptidase inhibitors , are compounds of the general formulaEMI2.1 therein R2 is 2,2 dimethylcyclopropyl or 2,2 dichiorocyclopropyl R1 is hydrogen, loweralkyl of 1 6 carbon atoms, dialkylaminoalkyl, or a pharmaceutically acceptable cation R3is a hydrocarbon chain of 3 7 carbon atoms, optionally having a terminal substituent which is trimethylammonium, amidino, guanidino, 2 amino 2 carboxyethylthio, or ureido. Preferably the compounds of formula I are in the Z configuration.Preferred are compounds of formula I in the Z configuration wherein R2 is 2,2 dimethylcyclopropyl R1 is hydrogen, loweralkyl of 1 6 carbon atoms, dialkylaminoalkyl with 1 6 carbon atoms in each alkyl group, or a pharmaceutically acceptable cation R3 is an alkylene chain of 3 7 carbon atoms, having a terminal substituent which is 2 amino 2 carboxyethylthio.Especially preferred are Z 8 L 2 amino 2 carboxy ethyltbio 2 2 ,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 2o ct eno ic acid and Z 7 L 2 amino 2 carboxyethylthio 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 2 heptenoìc acid, their lower alkyl and dialkylaminoalkylesters and their salts with pharmaceutically acceptable bases.Preferred compounds of formula I are Z 2 2,2 di methylcyclopropanecarboxamido 2 o ctenoic acid Z 2 2 , 2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 2 heptenoic acid 2 dimethylaminoethyl ester of Z 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 2 octenoic acid Z 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropaecarboxamido 2 hexenoic acid Z 2 2,2 dichlorocyclopropanecarboxamido 2 octenoic acid Z 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 8 trimethyl ammonium 2 octenoic acid inner salt Z 2 2,2 dichlorocyclopropanecarboxamido 8 trimethyl ammonium 2 octenoic acid inner salt Z 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 8 guianidino2 octenoic acid Z 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 8 amidino 2 octenoic acid Z 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 8 ureido2 octenoic acid 6 I 2 amino 2 carboxyethylthio 2 2,2 dimethylcyclo propanecarboxamido 2 hexenoic acid 7 E 2 amino 2 carboxgethyithio 2 2,2 dimethylcyclo propanecarboxamido 2 heptenoic acid optionally in the sodium, potassium, calcium or magnesium salt form Z 8 acetamido 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 2 octenoic acid The Z configuration J.E. Blackwood et al., J. Am. Chem. Soc., 90, p. 509 1968 is assigned to the above compounds on the basis of their NMR spectra by analogy with the work of A. Srinavasan et al. Tetrahedron Lett., 891 1976 7. Various pharmaceutically acceptable derivatives such as alkali and alkaline earth metal, ammonium, or amine salts, can be employed. Salts such as the sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, or tetra methylammonium salts are suitable. UTILITY OF THE INVENTION As noted above, the compounds of this invention are dipeptidase E.C.3.4.13.11 inhibitors, and can be used in combination with antibacterical compounds which are subject to renal degradation. The group of antibiotics of present primary importance for use in combination with the compounds of this invention are the thienamycin class of compounds . The term thienamycin class of compounds is used to identify any of a number of naturally occurring, semi synthetic, or synthetic derivatives or analog compounds having a common fused ring ss lactam nucleus. These compounds can be generi cally classed as 6 and optionally 2 substituted pen 2 em 3 carboxylic acids and l carbadethia pen 2 em 3 carboxylic acids or 1 azabicyclo 3.2.0 hept 2 ene 7 one 2 carboxylic acids. Specific comppunds particularly useful in this invention are represented structurally in the following formula II EMI4.1 wherein X can be CH2 or S R can be hydrogen S H2CH2NHR5, wherein R5 is hydrogen, acetyl, formimidoyl, acetimidoyl S O CH CHNHCOCHR and S CH CHNHCOCH3 and R6 isEMI4.2 wherein 7 is hydrogen, hydroxy or sulfonyloxy, or R6 is H. All possible stereoisomeric forms are included within the above structural definition. All of these compounds within Formula II are described in the literature. When X is CH R4 is SCHCHNH and R6 is CH OH CH3, the compound 222 CH OH CH3, the compound is known as thienamycin, an antibiotic produced by fermentation of S. cattleya, deposited as NRRL 8057 at Northern Regional Research Laboratories, U.S.Department of Agriculture, Peoria, Illinois, U.S.A., on November 18, 1974 described in U.S. Patent 3,950,357, issued April 13, 1976. The fermentation product N acetyl thienamycin R6 is CH OH CH3, and R5 is acetyl , also called 924A, is described in BelgianPatent No. 848,346, issued May 16, 1977. TheN imidoyl derivatives are covered in Belgian PatentNo. 848,545, issued May 20, 1977. The unsaturated side chain containing compound, also called N acetyldehydrothienamycin or 924A5 is a fermentation product of S. cattleya, NRRL 8057, described inBelgian Patent No. 866,035, issued October 17, 1978.Epimeric forms of N acetyl thienamycin, also called 890A, and 890A3, as well as the desacetyl 890A, and desacetyl 890A3 are disclosed, respectively in published French Appln 763,887, filed November 19, 1976, and Belgian Patent 848,349, issued May 16, 1977. Epimeric forms of the unsaturated thienamycin, also called 890A2 and 890A5,are described in publishedFrench of April 28, 1976. The 6 sulfonyloxycontaining N acetyl compounds, also called 890A9 or 890A1o, are disclosed respectively, in publishedFrench Appln. 7,734,456, filed November 16, 1977, and published French Appln. No. 7,734,457, filedNovember 16, 1977. Desacetyl analogues of 890A9 and 890A10 are respectively disclosed in DE OS 28 05 701,French Appln. 7,803,666, filed February 9, 1978,DE OS 28 05 724, and also in French Appln. 7,803,667, filed February 9, 1978. Some of these latter compounds in the 890A9 and 890A10 series are also known as derivatives of olivanic acid see Corbett et al., J. Chem. Soc. Chem. Common 1977, No. 24, pp. 953 54 .Compounds of the Formula II above when R4 is hydrogen, also called descysteaminyl thienamycins, are disclosed in Belgian Patent 867,227, issued November 20, 1978. When R6 is hydrogen, and X is CH2, these compounds are disclosed in German Off. 2,751,624.1, filedNovember 18, 1977. A thienamycin type antibiotic in which R is SCH2CH2NHAc and R6 is C2H5, has been named PS 5 and is reported by K. Okaimura et al., J. Antibiotics 31 p. 480 1978 , see also Belgian Patent 865,578. The compounds in which X is S, also called penems , are described by RB. Woodward in Recent Advances in the Chemistry of Lactam Anti biotic , J. Elks Ed , The Chemical Society,London, 1977, p. 167 R.B. Woodward, Abstracts ofUppsala University 500 Years Symposium on CurrentTopics in Drug Research, Uppsala, Sweden, October 1921, 1977. Acta. Pharm. Suecica, Vol. 14, Supplement, p. 23, and U.S. Patent 4,070,477, issuedJanuary 24, 1978. Particularly preferred members within the thienamycin thienamycin class of compounds are the N formimidoyl and N acetamidoyl derivatives of thienamycin. The crystalline form of N formimidoyl thienamycin, which has recently been described, is also useful in the practice of this invention. An example illustrating a preferred way of making this compound follows ILLUSTRATIVE EXAMPLE N Formimidoyl thienamycin, NFT crystallineStep A. Benzylformimidate hydrochloride A 3 1. three necked flask fitted with an addition funnel, overhead stirrer, and a reflux condenser, was charged with a mixture of benzyl alcohol 125 g., 1.15 mol formamide 51 g., 1.12 mol and anhydrous ether 1200 ml. .The mixture was stirred vigorously at room temperature 20 250C under a nitrogen atmosphere and benzoyl chloride 157 g., 1.12 mol in 50 ml. of anhydrous ether was added dropwise using the addition funnel. The addition required approximately 50 minutes. The reaction mixture was stirred an additional 60 minutes at room temperature. The ether was removed by decantation and 300 ml. of acetic anhydride in 500 ml. of anhydrous ether was added. The mixture was stirred 30 minutes at room temperature.The precipitate was allowed to settle and the etheracetic anhydride was again removed by decantation.The solid was collected by filtration, washed with 500 ml. of ether and dried in vacuo over KOH at 250C for 2 hrs. to give 130 g. 67 of benzylformimidate hydrochloride as a white solid. The product was assayed by NMR g DMSO 5.7 s, 2H, CH2 r 7.5 s, 5H, , 9.0 s, lH, HC N .The product is thermally unstable. It decomposes to formamide and benzyl chloride at OOC and above.However, no appreciable decomposition was detected on storage at 200C for 2 months. Step B. Derivatization of Thienamycin Thienamycin in the form of a 6 1. aqueous solution, pH 6.5, concentrate from the fermentation broth, containing 28 g. thienamycin was placed in a large beaker 12 1 and cooled to OOC. The beaker was equipped with a pH meter and an efficient high speed stirrer. The pH was raised to 8.5 by the careful addition of 3N KOH KOH was added dropwise via syringe to the stirred solution . The solution was treated with 6 equivalents of solid benzyl formimidate hydrochloride r l00 g. in portions while maintaining the pH at 8.5 0.3 by the addition of 3N KOH 200 ml. using a syringe. The addition required 3 5 min. The reaction mixture was stirred for 6 min. at 0 C and then assayed by liquid chromatography to insure completion of the reaction.The solution was adjusted to pH 7 with lN HCl. The volume of the reaction mixture was measured, and the solution was assayed by UV. The neutralized reaction mixture was concentrated to 15 g. l. on the reverse osmosis unit at l00C. The volume of the concentrate was measured and the pH was adjusted to 7.2 7.4, if necessary. The concentrate was filtered through a medium porosity sintered glass funnel to remove any solids present after concentrate tion. Step C. Dowex 50W x 2 Chromatography The concentrate 750 1000 ml., 15 20 g. was applied to OOC. to a precooled 18 1. column ofDowex 50W x 2 in the potassium cycle 200 400 mesh resin and the column was eluted at 0 5 C with distilled deionized water a flow rate of 90 ml min. and a head pressure of 0 45 psig. Forerun fractions of 4 1., 2 1., and one 1., were collected followed by 18 fractions of 450 ml.each, and one final fraction of 2 1. Each fraction was assayed by UV 1 100 dilution, NH2OH extinction was omitted and the total amount of NFT present in each fraction was calculated. The beginning and end fractions were assayed for liquid chromatography purity and the desired rich cut fractions were combined. The pH of the combined rich cuts was determined by both pH meter and bromothymol blue indicating solutions and was adjusted to pH 7.2 7.4 if necessary. The combined rich cuts 3 4 1. were then assayed by UV and the total formamidine content was determined, 15 16 g., 75 yield from the column.The rich cuts were concentrated on the reverse osmosis unit at c 100C as far as possible, then the concentration to 33 g. l. was completed on the circulatory evaporator at less than 28 C. A total volume of about 500 ml. concentrate was obtained. Step D. Crystallization of N Formimidoyl Thienamycin The concentrate from the previous step is adjusted to 7.3, if necessary, and N formimidoyl thienamycin content assayed by W, was about 85 90 .The concentrate was filtered through a sintered glass funnel medium porosity into a large Erlenmeyer flask. Five volumes 2200 ml. of 3A ethanol was filtered into the concentrate and the solution was stirred at room temperature for 10 minutes and at OOC for 12 24 hrs. The crystals were filtered by suction filtration and washed with 0.1 volume 250 ml. of 0 C 80 3A ethanol followed by 1 25 volume 100 ml. of.3A ethanol at room temperature. The crystals were dried in vacuo for 12 24 hrs. to give approximately a 40 overall yield of N formimidoyl thienamycin 10 12 g. . Analytical results on a 50 g. blend of Nformimidoyl thienamycin, prepared as above, are as follows C, theory 45.42 found, 45.82 H, theory 6.03 found, 5.72 N, theory 13.24 found, 13.10 S, theory 10.10 found, 10.14 residue on ignition, predicted 0.5, found 0.47 25 c 25 89.40, T.G. 6.8 , UV max 300 , E 328. METHODS OF USING THE INVENTION As mentioned above, the thienamycin type compound is used in combination with the dipeptidase inhibitor. The combination of the novel chemical inhibitors of this inventiofl and the thienamycin class compound can be in the form of a pharmaceutical composition containing the two compounds in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The two can be employed in amounts so that the weight ratio of the thienamycin class compound to inhibitor is 1 3 to 30 1, and preferably 1 1 to 5 1. The components can also be separately administered. For instance, the thienamycin class compound can be administered intramuscularly or intravenously in amounts of 1 100 mg kg day, preferably 1 20 mg kg day, or 1 5 mg kg day, in divided dosage forms, e.g., three or four times a day. The inhibitor can be separately administered, orally, intramuscularly, or IV, in amounts of 1100 mg kg day, or preferably 1 30 mg kg day, or 1 5 mg kg day. The amounts of the two components administered during one day ideally are within the ratio limits denoted above. One preferred dosage form known to applicants is as a single dose, of two crystalline compounds, one being N formimidoyl thienamycin and the other being Z 2 282 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 2 octenoic acid, co administered in a sterile aqueous IV injection form sodium salt , at a level of 150 mg. of the thienamycin and either 75 or 150 mg of the octenoic acid. This dose is given to humans each assumed to weigh about 80 kg. from 1 to 4 times a day, or 2 8 mg kg day of the thienamycin class compound and 1 8 mg kg day of the inhibitor. The most preferred dosage regimen and level is the combination of crystalline N formimidoyl thienamycin and the other being the crystalline form of 7 L amino 2 carboxyethylthio 2 2 ,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarb oxamido 2 heptenoic acid, co administered in a sterile aqueous IV injection form sodium salt , at a level of 250 or 500 mg of the thienamycin and about 1 1 weight of the heptenoic acid, or 250 or 500 mg. This dose is given to humans each assumed to weigh about 80 kg. from 1 to 4 times daily, or 3.1 25 mg kg day of each drug. The components, whether administered separately or together are employed in pharmaceutically acceptable carriers such as conventional vehicles adapted for oral adminstration such as capsules, tablets, or liquid solutions or suspensions. The components separately or together, can also be dissolved in a vehicle adapted for administration by injection. Suitable formulations for oral use, may include diluents, granulating agents, preservatives, binders, flavoring agents, and coating agents. The example of an oral use composition in the combination of active ingredients, or the acid component alone, intermixed in the dry pulverulent state with gelatin, starch, magnesium stearate, and alginic acid, and pressed into a tablet. As noted above, the presently known preferred method is parenteral administration of the thienamycin class compound and either co parenteral administration or oral administration of the inhibitor compound. METHODS OF TESTING THE COMBINATION ANTIBACTE RI AL AGENT As noted, disposition studies with thienamycin, its natural analogs and its semi synthetic derivatives have revealed a major metabolic degradation pathway of elimination in the various species examined mouse, rat, dog, chimpanzee, Rhesus monkey . The extent of metabolism is reflected in low urinary recovery and short plasma half lives.The nature of this degradation was demonstrated to be lactam cleavage by the renal dipeptidase E.C.3.4.13.11 , described first by Bergmann, M.and Schleich, H., Z. Physiol. Chem., 205 65 1932 see also Greenstein, J.P., Advances in Enzymology,Vol. VIII, Wiley Interscience, 1948 , New York, and Campbell, B.J. Lin, Y C., Davis, R.V. andBallew, E., The Purification and Properties ofParticulate Renal Dipeptidase , Biochim. Biophys.Acta., 118, 371 1966 . In order to demonstrate the ability of the compounds of Formula I to suppress the action of the renal dipeptidase enzyme, an in vitro screen procedure was followed. This measured the ability of compounds to inhibit hydrolysis of glycyldehydrophenylalanine GDP by a solubilized preparation of dipeptidase isolated from hog kidneys. The procedure is as follows to a 1 ml. system containing 50 mM MOPS 3 N morpholino propanesulfonic acid buffer, pH 7.1, is added 5pg of lyophilized enzyme, and the test compound at a final concentration of 0.1 mM. After a five minute incubation at 370C, GDP is added to a final concentration of 0.05mM. Incuba tion is continued for 10 minutes, at 37tC and hydrolysis of GDP is measured by the change in optical density with time at 275 nm.Inhibit ion of the enzyme is gauged by comparison to a standard run containing no inhibitor and is expressed as the inhibitor binding constant, Ki. This is the concentration of the inhibitor which achieves 50 inhibition of enzyme. The substrate GDP is employed in preference to thienamycin in this screen because it has a much higher maximal velocity of hydrolysis by renal dipeptidase, thereby reducing the amount of enzyme required. Both GDP and thienamycinyhave a similar affinity for renal dipeptidase furthermore, Ki s of inhibitors tested have been identical for the two substrates. In addition to this in vitro screen procedure, an in vivo screen was followed to measure the test compound 5 ability to inhibit metabolism as reflected by increase in urinary recovery of thienamycin from the mouse. The procedure involves co administration of the test compound by the intravenous or subcutaneous route at a dose rate of 10 100 mg kg, with 10 mg kg thienamycin. Thienamycin recovery in the urine over a 4 hour period is then compared with its recovery in a control group to which test compound was not co administered. Urinary recovery of thienamycin was measured in all cases with the use of a cylinder or disc diffusion assay, conducted in a manner described inU.S. Patent 3,950,357. This bioassay, with Staphylococcus aureus ATCC 6538 as the test organism, has a useful response range from 0.04 Fg ml to 3.0 Wg ml. Examples which illustrate this invention follow.SECTION 1. EXAMPLES ILLUSTRATING ACTIVITYIn Vitro Test Data A 1 ml. system of 50 mM MOPS buffer, pH 7.1, is used. To this is added 5Rg of the pig renal enzyme and an amount of the test compound to bring its final concentration to 0.1 mM. After a five minute incubation at 370C, an amount of GDP is added to bring its final concentration to 0.05 mM. The system is again incubated for 10 minutes, at 370C. Hydrolysis of GDP is measured by its change in optical density with time at 275 nm. Inhibition of the enzyme is gauged by comparison to a standard run containing no inhibitor and is presented as percent inhibition. The K. is a constant indicating the concentration of inhibitor necessary to produce 50 inhibition of enzyme. It is a calculated value obtained from running multiple in vitro as says, as above, at concentrations resulting in inhibition below and above the 50 inhibition point. The results are presented in Table I. EMI16.1 tb Dipeptidase SEP 2 SEP Inhibition tb SEP Inhibitor SEP R3 SEP R SEP at SEP 10 4M tb SEP H tb SEP 1 SEP cN214 s 2 c COO SEP S4CH3 tb SEP 4 SEP C.3 SEP O.2 tb SEP N3 SEP 3 tb SEP SEP I tb SEP 2 SEP M3 CI2 a SEP q SEP CK9 SEP .08 tb SEP CR3 tb SECTION 2. EXAMPLES ILLUSTRATING CHEMICAL PREPARATIONS The inhibitor compounds are made by condensing directly the appropriate 2 keto acid or ester and an amide EMI17.1 wherein R2 and R3 are as defined, and R is hydrogen or alkyl. The general reaction conditions involve mixing approximately 1 4 1 parts of the acid to the amide in an inert solvent such as toluene or methyl isovalerate and heating at reflux with azeotropic removal of water for from 3 48 hours, preferably 5 2 4 hours. The solution when cooled normally yields the product in crystalline form, but the product can also be isolated using a base extraction process.The product can be recrystallized by using generally known techniques. Condensations of keto esters require use of small amount of p toluenesulfonic acid as catalyst. The catalyst also is helpful in some condensations with keto acids. Another route to the novel inhibitor compounds uses an a amino acid, t butyl ester in reaction with an acid chloride EMI17.2 This reaction takes place in the presence of base, such as triethylamine, in a solvent such as methylene chloride. The resulting N acylated product VII is then oxidized by treatment with t butyl hypochlorite followed by addition of sodium methoxide.This yields the 2 methoxy derivative VIII and or its elimination product, the a,ss unsaturated ester IX . Further treatment with anhydrous hydrochloric acid converts either VIII or IX or the mixture of both to the desired a, unsaturated free acid II . EMI18.1 EMI18.2 Some compounds wherein R3 has a terminal substituent which is an amino, quaternary nitrogen, thio derivative, alkoxy, guanidino, acyloxy or cyano can be made most conveniently from an intermediate having a terminal bromine. In this case, the bromo or chloro intermediate has the structureEMI18.3 wherein n is the number of carbons in the desired hydrocarbon chain e.g., from 3 7 . In order to prepare R3 having a terminal trimethylammonium substituent, the bromo intermediate is reacted with trimethylamine to yield the amino the bromo intermediate is reacted with ammonia the guanidino, reaction is with guanidine to prepare the thio derivatives, including 2 amino 2 carboxyethylthio, the bromo compound is reacted with cysteine Hel, or the appropriate mercaptan.Derivatized amino, such as formamidino, ureido, and acylamido acetamido can be made from the compounds having an amino group by reacting with o benzyl formimidate HCl, potassium cyanate and the appropriate acyl anhydride acetic dehydride , respectively. Another route for preparing compounds when R3 is a terminally substituted thio derivative utilizes a chloro keto ester intermediateEMI19.1 in reaction with the desired amide,EMI19.2 in toluene at reflux in the presence of a catalytic amount of p toluene sulfonic acid. The resulting intermediate is hydrolyzed to the acid the chloro group is then displaced in reaction with the appropriate mercaptan.This reaction is valuable since it permits use of the chiral amide IV, thereby preparing a functionalized side chain. In addition, the mixture of Z E isomers prepared after the mercaptan condensation can be directly isomerized into the Z form by adding acid to a pH about 3, and heating to about 90 C for 30 minutes. Only the Z form remains, and recovery is simple and straight forward.More detail about preparation of the compounds is found in the following examples. EXAMPLE 1 Z 8 Brorno 2 2, 2 Dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 2 octenoic acid To a suspension of 14.4 g 0.3 mole of 50 NaH dispersion in 360 ml of toluene cooled in an ice bath and in a N2 atmosphere was added over 45 min. a solution of 146 g 0.6 moles of 1,6dibromohexane and 57.6 g 0.3 mole of ethyl 1,3dithiane 2 carboxylate in 120 ml of DMF. The cooling bath was removed and the mixture stirred at room temperature for 20 hrs. The reaction mixture was washed with water 3 x 210 ml , dried over MgSO4 and evaporated under reduced pressure to give 179.5 g of a yellow oil containing the desired alkylated dithiane, 1,6 dibromohexane and mineral oil. This crude material was used in the next reaction without purification. To a suspension of 426 g 2.4 moles ofN bromosuccinamide in 800 ml of acetonitrile and 200 ml of H20 was added over 45 min. a solution of the crude dithiane in 100 ml of acetonitrile. The temperature of the reaction mixture was maintained below 250C with an ce bath. After stirring at 200C for 10 min. the dark red reaction mixture was poured into 2 1. of hexane CH2Cl2 l l . The solution was shaken with saturated NaHSO3 2 x 400 ml and water 1 x 500 ml . Then 400 ml of saturatedNa2CO3 solution was added in small portions vigorous CO2 solution . After the foaming subsided the funnel was shaken and the aqueous phase separated. The organic layer was extracted with saturated Na2CO3 solution 400 ml and water 500 ml and dried over MgSO4. Removal of the solvent under reduced pressure gave 133.8 g of crude bromo ketoester containing 1,6 dibromohexane and mineral oil.This crude material was used in the next reaction without purification. A mixture of 133.8 g of crude bromo ketoester, 133 ml of 50 hydrobromic acid and 267 ml of acetic acid was heated at 900C internal temperature for 75 min. The dark solution was evaporated under reduced pressure until most of the acetic acid was removed. The residue was dissolved in 500 ml of ether, washed with water 2 x 100 ml and extracted with saturated NaHCO3 3 x 200 ml . The combinedNaHCO3 extracts were extracted with ether 2 x 100 ml and acidified with concentrated HCl. The precipitated oil was extracted with ether 3 x 200 ml .The ether extracts were washed with water 1 x 100 ml and saturated brine 1 x 100 ml and dried over MgSO. Removal of the ether under reduced pressure gave 46.2 g of pure bromoketo acid. Homogeneous by TSC silica gel, 4 1 toluene acetic acid . TheNMR spectrum was consistent with the desired product. A mixture of 46.1 g 0.194 moles of the bromoketo acid , 17.6 g 0.156 mole of 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamide and 450 ml of toluene was heated under reflux for 13 hrs., with collection of water in a small Dean Stark trap. After cooling, the clear reaction mixture was extracted with saturated NaHCO3 solution 4 x 100 ml . The combined extracts were washed with ether 2 x 100 ml and then the pH was adjusted to 3.5 pH meter by addition of concentrated HCl. An oil precipitated which soon crystallized. The solid was filtered, washed well with water and dried. Recrystallization from acetonitrile gave 22.5 g of Z 8 bromo 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 2 octenoic acid, m.p. 151 1530C. Homogeneous by TLC 4 1 tolueneacetic acid . The NMR spectrum was consistent with the desired structure.Anal. C14H22BrN03 Calcd Found C 50.61 50.66 H 6.67 6.96 N 4.22 4.45 Br 24.05 23.95 The following bromo compounds were prepared using the same procedure Z 6 Bromo 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 2 hexenoic acid Z 7 Bromo 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 2 heptenoic acid Z 9 Bromo 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 2 2 nonenoic acid Z l0 Bromo 2 t2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 2 decenoic acid Z 8 Bromo 2 2, 2 dichlorocyclopropanecarboxamido 2 octenoic acid. EXAMPLE 2 Z 8 Dimethylamino 2 2, 2 dirnethylcyclopropane carboxamido 2 octenoic acid A solution of 664 mg 2 mmoles of Z 8 bromo 2 2t2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 2 octenoic acid in 10 ml of 40 aqueous dimethylamine was allowed to stand at room temperature for 4 hrs. The solution was poured onto a 3.5 x 20 cm column ofDowex 50W x8 100 2.00 mesh, H ion exchange resin and the column eluted with water until the effluent was no longer acidic N200 ml . The column was then eluted with 300 ml of 2N ammonium hydroxide. The effluent was evaporated under reduced pressure to give 600 mg of a colorless glass. This material was dissolved in 3 ml of ethanol, filtered, and added dropwise to 200 ml of rapidly stirred acetone.A gummy solid precipitated which crystallized upon stirring for two days. The solid was filtered, washed with acetone, and dried to give 445 mg of Z 8 dimethylamino 2 2, 2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxa mido 2 octenoic acid as colorless, hygroscopic crystals, m.p. 101 1120C. Homogeneous by TLC silica gel, in BuOH, HOAc, H20, 4 1 1 . NMR spectrum was consistent with desired structure.Anal. C16H28N203.H2O Calcd. Found C 61.12 61.03 H 9.62 9.28 N 8.91 8.67 The following GJ amino derivatives were prepared using essentially the same procedure.Z 10 Dimethylamino 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxamido 2 decenoic acid Z 8 Amino 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 2 octenoic acid Z 8 Dimethylamino 2 2, 2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxamido 2 octenoic acid Z 7 Dimethylamino 2 2, 2 dimethylcylclopropane carboxamido 2 heptenoic acid Z 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 7 N methylpiperazinyl 2 heptenoic acid Z 2 2, 2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 8 pyrrolidino 2 octenoic acid Z 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 8 N methylpiperazinyl 2 octenoic acid Z 8 Allylamino 2 2, 2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxamido 2 octenoic acid 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 8 piperidino 2 octenoic acid Z 2 2, 2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 8 propargylamino 2 octenoic acid Z 8 N 1 Deoxy 1 methylamino D glucityl 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 2 octenoic acid Z 8 l Adamantylamino 2 22 dimethylcyclopropane carboxamido 2 octenoic acid Z 8 Diallylamino 2 2, 2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxamido 2 octenoic acid z 8 2, 2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 8 2 hydroxyethylmethylamino 2 octenoic acid Z 8 Carboxylmethyl methylamino 2 2,2 dimethyl cyclopropanecarboxamido 2 octenoic acid Z 2 2, 2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 8 diethylamino 2 octenoic acid Z 2 22 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 8 tris hydroxymethyl methylamino 2 octenoic acid Z 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 10 N methylpiperazinyl 2 decenoic acid Z 2 2, 2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 8 Fl phosphono ethylamino 2 octenoic acid EXAMPLE 2 A Z 8 Carboxymethyl methylamino 2 2,2 dimethyl cyclopropanecarboxamido 2 octenoic acid 3.32 g. of Z 8 bromo 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 2 octenoic acid, 1.0 g. of CH3NHCH2CO2H, 3.5 g. of Na2Co3 and 30 ml of water were heated at 800C in N2 for 1.5 hours. After purification, 1.0 g. of product was obtained, calc. for Cl7H28N205.2H2O C, 54.24 H, 8.57 N, 7.44 found C, 54.40 H, 8.34 N, 7.16. EXAMPLE 2 B z 2 2, 2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 8 1 phosphono ethylamino 2 octenoic acid Was prepared by reacting the same bromo intermediate 335.1 mg with 138.2 mg l aminoethane phosphoric acid, and 435 mg Na2CO3 in 5 ml water, following essentially the same procedure, Ki 0.16. EXAMPLE 3 Z 2 2, 2 Dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 8 methyl thio 2 octenoic acid A stream of CH3SH gas was bubbled through a solution of 162 mg 3 mmoles of sodium methoxide in 5 ml of methanol for 10 min. with cooling in an ice bath. The solution was allowed to warm to room temperature and 332 mg 1 mmole of Z 8 bromo 2 2, 2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 2 octenoic acid was added. The solution was heated under reflux for 30 min. in a N2 atmosphere. Most of the methanol was evaporated under reduced pressure, the residue was dissolved in 10 ml of water and acidified with 2.5 N HCl. The precipitated oil was extracted with ether 3x .The ether extracts were washed with water, saturated brine and dried over MgS6,4. Removal of the ether under reduced pressure gave a colorless oil that crystallized upon standing. It was recrystallized from ether hexane to give 178 mg of Z 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 8 methylthio 2 octenoic acid, m.p. 82 840C. Homogeneous by TLC toluene acetic acid, 4 1 . The NMR spectrum was in accord with the desired structure.Anal. C15H25N03S Calcd. Found C 60.18 60.36 H 8.42 8.68 N 4.68 4.59 S 10.69 i0.87 The following compounds were prepared by similar methods. Z 2 2r2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 8 eth thiocarbonylthio 2 octenoic acid z 2 2, 2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 8 1 methyl 5 tetrazolylthio 2 octenoic acid Z 2 2, 2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 7 methoxycarbonyl methyl thio3 2heptenoic acid Z 8 Acetylthio 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxamido 2 octenoic acid Z 7 2 Amino 2 oxoethyl thio 2 2,2 dimethylcyclo propanecarboxamido 2 heptenoic acid 6 L 2 Amino 2 carboxethylthio 2 2, 2 dimethyl cyclopropanecarboxamido 2 hexenoic acid Z 8 Carbomethoxymethylthio 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 2 octenoic acid Z 6 Carbomethoxymethylthio 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 2 hexenoic acid z 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 6 phosphonomethylthio 2 hexenoic acid. The compound 7 L amino 2 carboxyethylthio 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 2 heptenoic acid is prepared in a similar fashion as the above example, except that Z 7 bromo 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 2 heptenoic acid prepared as in Example 17 185 mg, 1.05 mmoles is dissolved in 2.02 ml NaOH solution 2.0 N , and deoxygenated by bubbling a stream of nitrogen gas through it for a minute. Then cysteine.HCl 185 mg,,l.05 mmoles is added all at once and the reaction stirred at room temperature in a N2 atmosphere for 3 hours.The reaction mixture is applied to 2 x 20 cm column of Dowex 50 x 4 100 200 mesh H , and eluted with 300 ml H20 , then 200 ml of 2N NH3 solution. Ammonia evaporated under reduced pressure to give 284 mg of a yellowish glass. This product is dissolved in 4 ml ethanol, and the insoluble material filtered.The filtrate is added dropwise to rapidly stirred diethyl ether 150 ml . The solid which precipitates is filtered, washed with ether and dried to yield 171 mg product, having one spot ninhydrin positive in TLC nBuOH, HOAc, H2O 4 l l ,rf.about 6 NMR is consistent with the desired structure. Anal C16H26N205S Calcd. Found C 53.61 52.55 H 7.31 7.40 N 7.81 7.89 S 8.94 9.63 EXAMPLE 3 ASodium Z 7 L amino 2 Carboxethylthio 2 2, 2 dimethyl cyclopropane carboxamido 2 heptenoic acidA. Crignard Preparation of Ethyl 7 chloro 2 oxoheptanoate Equimolar amounts 8 moles each of l bromo 5chloropentane and magnesium are reacted in tetrahydrofuran 960 ml at 250C. The flask is charged with mg.in the THF and the bromochloropentane added over 1 hr, then aged 2 hrs. After the reaction was judged complete, the reaction solution was added cooled to 150C to 16 moles of diethyloxalate in 1856 ml tetrahydrofuran, while maintaining the temperature at 100C. 3 N.HCl was added to quench, keeping the temperature below 25 C, After stripping solvents, the calculated yield is 48.8 of the ethyl l chloro 6 oxoheptenoate.B. Condensation and Hydrolysis S 2,2 dimethylcyclopropyl carboxamide 1017 g , 2143.6 g of ethyl 7 chloro 2 ketoheptanoate, 9 liters of toluene and 12 g of p toluene sulfonic acid were charged to a 22 L. flask, and heated to reflux with stirring. After 23 hrs., liquid chromatography showed the expected product ratio, and 4 L. of toluene were removed under slightly reduced pressure. The pot was charged with water, neutralized to pH 7 with 2N NaOH, and vacuum distilled leaving a final pot volume of about 5 liters. This was hydrolyzed by adding 1760 g of 50 aq.NaOH 4 liters water and stirring overnight. The flask was charged with 4 L. methylene chloride, and pH adjusted to 8.8 using HC1. unreacted amide crystallized out. The organic layers were separated from water, and then evaporated. The gummy residue was dissolved in 8 liters water containing 720 g 50 NaOH, and to this solution was charged 1818 g L. cysteine HC1.H2O, 2 kg ice, 2484 g 50 NaOH and 1 liter water. The pH of this solution, after aging overnight at room temperature, is adjusted to 3.0 with conc. HC1, and the resulting gummy suspension heated to 950c to afford a clear solution. After 30 minutes, no E isomer could be detected by Ic. After work up and purification, the overall yield was 50 . This material was recrystallized from acetonitrile. 1500 g of the recrystallized material was dissolved in 6 liters water and 910 ml 3.88 NNaOH, then neutralized to pH 7, and lyophilized to afford 1569 g 98.6 of the title compound Analysis calcd C, 50.52 H, 6.62 N, 7.36 S, 8.43 Na, 6.04 found C, 50.71 H, 6.78 N, 7.49 S, 8.52 Na, 5.92. EXAMPLE 3 B Z 8 2 Amino 2 oxoethyl thio 2 2,2 dimethyl cyclopropane carboxamido 2 octenoic acid was also prepared in a similar manner, to that described in Example 19, above, using 3.3 gm of the bromo intermediate, .1.3 g of H2NC 0 CH2SH, in 50 ml methanol 1.6 g of product, mp 127 1280C was obtained. EXAMPLE 4 Z 2 2, 2 Dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 8 trimethyl ammonium hydroxide 2 octenoic acid inner salt A solution of 996 mg 3 moles of Z 8 bromo 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 2 octenoic acid in 15 ml of 25 aqueous trimethylamine was allowed to stand at room temperature for 3 hrs. The reaction mixture was poured onto a 2 x 25 cm column of iRA 410 50 100 mesh, OH ion exchange resin and eluted with water until the effluent was no longer basic. The effluent was evaporated under reduced pressure to give 800 mg of a colorless glass.This material was dissolved in 20 ml of ethanol, filtered and diluted with 600 ml of acetone After standing at room temperature overnight the crystalline solid which deposited was filtered, washed with acetone and dried to give 720 mg of Z 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 8 trimethylammonium hydroxide2 octenoic acid inner salt as hygroscopic crystals, m.p. 220 222 C. Homogeneous by TLC silica gel, inBuOH, HOAc, H20, 4 1 1 . NMR spectrum was consistent with desired structure.Anal. Cl7H3oN2o3 Calcd Found C 65.77 65.78 H 9.74 9.98 N 9.02 8.92 Other quaternary derivatives were prepared using essentially the same procedure these are Z 2 2, 2 Dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 8 trimethyl ammonium hydroxide 2 octenoic acid inner salt Z 2 2,2 Dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 8 pyridinium hydroxide 2 octenoic acid inner salt Z 2 2,2 Dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 8 2 hydroxyethyldimethylammonium hydroxide 2 octenoic acid inner salt Z 2 2,2 Dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido l0 trimethylammonium hydroxide 2 decenoic acid inner salt Z 8 Benzyldimethylammonium hydroxide 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 2 octenoic acid inner salt Z l0 Benzyldimethylammonium hydroxide 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 2 decenoic acid inner salt Z 2 2, 2 Dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 9 trimethylammonium hydroxide 2 nonenoic acid inner salt Z 8 2 Dimethylaminoethyldimethylamm6nium hydroxide 2 2, 2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 2 octenoic acid inner salt Z 2 2, 2 Dichlorocyclopropanecarboxamido 8 trimethyl ammonium hydroxide 2 octenoic acid inner salt EXAMPLE 5 Z 2 2, 2 Dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 8 formamidino 2 octenoic acid A 350 mg sample of Z 8 amino 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 2 octenoic acid was dissolved in 10 ml of water and the pH adjusted to 8.5 with 2.5N NaOH.A total of 947 mg of benzyl formimidate hydrochloride was added at room temperature in small portions over 20 min. while the pH was maintained between 8 9 by addition of 2.5N NaOH. After stirring at room temperature for 30 min., the cloudy reaction mixture was extracted with ether 3X and applied to a 2 x 2.5 cm coumn of an AG5OW X4 Na , 200 400 mesh resin. After elution with water, the fractions containing the product were pooled and evaporated under reduced pressure. This material was dissolved in water and applied to a 2 x 25 cm column of an AGlX8 HC03, 200 400 mesh resin. After elution with water, the fractions containing pure product were pooled and evaporated under reduced pressure.The residue was dissolved in a few ml of warm ethanol, filtered, and added dropwise to 200 ml of ether with rapid stirring. Filtration and washing with ether gave 243 mg of Z 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 8 formamidino 2 octenoic acid as an amorphouS solid. Homongeneous by TLC n BuOH, HOAc, H20 4 1 1 . The NMR spectrum was in accord with the desired structure.Anal. C15H25N303.1 3H20 Calcd. Found C 59.69 60.04 H 8.59 8.64 N 13.92 13.57 The following amidino compounds were prepared using similar procedures Z 8 Acetamidino 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecar boxamido 2 octenoic acid Z 8 N Benzylformamidino 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxamido 2 octenoic acid Z 2 2, 2 Dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido l 0 formamidino 2 decenoic acid Z 2 2,2 DimethylcyclopropanecarboxamidO 8 2 imidazolinyl amino 2 octenoic acid. EXAMPLE 6 Z 2 2, 2 Dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 8 guanidino 2 octenoic acid To a solution of 2 mmoles of guanidine prepared from 432 mg of guanidine sulfate and 630 mg of barium hydroxide octahydrate in 7 ml of water was added 332 mg 1 mmole of 8 bromo 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 2 octenoic acid, and the solution was heated at 700C in a nitrogen atmosphere for 1 hr. The reaction mixture was applied to a 2 x 25 cm column of Dowex 50W X8 H , 100 200 mesh . After elution with water the fractions containing the product were pooled and evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in several ml of warm ethanol and added dropwise to 100 ml of ether with rapid stirring.Filtration and washing with ether gave 107 mg of Z 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 8 guanidino 2 octenoic acid as an amorphous electrostatic powder. Homogeneous by TLC n BuOH, HOAc, H2O 4 1 1 . NMR D2O, NaOD 6.48 t, lH, 3.lOf m, 2H, CH2N , 2.10 m, 2H, CH2 , 1.17 EMI34.1 The following guanidino compound was prepared using the same procedure Z 2 2,2 Dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 8 N,N dimethylguanidino 2 octenoic acid. EXAMPLE 7 Z 2 2, 2 Dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 8 methoxy 2 octenoic acid To a solution of 2.43 mmoles of sodium methoxide in 5 ml of methanol was added 332 mg 1 mmole of 8 bromo 2 2, 2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 2 octenoic acid. The solution was heated under reflux in a nitrogen atmosphere for 1 hr. The reaction mixture was evaporated under reduced pressure, the residue dissolved in water and acidified with 2.5 N hydrochloric acid. The oil which precipitated was extracted with ether 3X . The ether extracts were washed with water, and saturated brine and dried over MgSO4. Removal of the ether under reduced pressure gave a colorless oil that crystallized upon standing. It was recrystallized from ether hexane to give 140 mg of Z 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxamido 8 methoxy 2 octenoic acid, m.p. 71 720C. Homogeneous by TLC toluene HOAc, 4 1 . The NMR spectrum was in accord with the desired structure.Anal. C15H25N04 Calcd. Found C 63.58 63.54 H 8.89 9.12 N 4.94 5.16 Using similar procedures, the following compounds were prepared Z 8 Cyano 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 2 octenoic acid z 7 Cyano 2 2, 2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 2 heptenoic acid Z 9 Cyano 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 2 nonenoic acid Z 2 2,2 Dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 7 sulfo 2 heptenoic acid sodium salt Z 2 2t2 Dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 8 sulfo 2 octenoic acid sodium salt Z 2 2 ,2 Dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 8 hydroxy 2 octenoic acid Z 8 Acetoxy 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 2 octenoic acid. The Z 8 cyano 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxamido 2 octenoic compound was prepared from 332 mg 8 bromo 2 2, 2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxamido 2 octenoic acid and 100 mg NaCN in 2 ml DMSO, heated at 800C for 30 min.After extraction and purification, 102 mg of a colorless solid, mp 99 1030C were recovered, analysis for ClsH22N203 Calcd C, 64.73 H, 7.97 N, 10.06 Found C, 64.69 H, 8.14 N, 9.41.