# Phenyl piperazine derivatives having analgetic activity.

## Abstract
It has been found that the group of phenyl piperazine derivatives of formula 3 of the formula sheet and the salts thereof have a strong analgetic activity. The compounds can be prepared in a manner known for analogous compounds and be processed to the usual compositions.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Pharmaceutical compositions, characterized in that they comprise as an active substance at least one compound of formula 3 of the formula sheet, in which R1 is a hydrogen atom, a methyl group, a methoxy group or an amino group,R2 is a hydrogen atom or a methyl group, and 3 is a chlorine atom or a trifluoromethyl group, or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof. 2. A method of preparing pharmaceutical compositions, characterized in that a compound of formula 3, in which R1, R2 and R3 have the meanings mentioned in Claim 1, or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof, is brought into a form suitable for administration. 3 . A method of controlling pain in man or animal, characterized in that an active quantity of a compound of formula 3, in which R1, R2 and R3 have the meanings given in Claim 1, or a salt thereof with a pharmaceutically acceptable acid, is administered.

## Description
Phenyl piperazine derivatives having analgetic activity. The invention relates to phenyl piperazine derivatives and to compositions comprising at least one of these compounds as an active substance. Various phenyl piperazine derivatives having varying pharmacological properties are known. For example, United States Patent Specification 2,722,529 relates to compounds of formula 1 of the formula sheet, in which Y is a straight or a branched alkyl group having 2 6 carbon atoms and Z is an acyl group, a sulphonyl group or a carbamoyl group. These compounds are said to have a strong sympatholytic activity and sometimes a hypotensive activity. Furthermore, United States Patent Specification 2,833,770 discloses a group of compounds of the general formula 2 of the formula sheet, in which formula R is a chlorine atom or a bromine atom, R is hydrogen or a methyl group, and n is an integer from 2 5. Of these compounds also a sympatholytic activity is known. Non pre published European Patent Application 802001735 relates to a new group of phenyl piperazine derivatives which have a strong antiagressive activity. It has been found that phenyl piperazine derivatives of formula 3 of the formula sheet, in which 1 is a hydrogen atom, a methyl group, a methoxy group or an amino group, R2 is a hydrogen atom or a methyl group and R3 is a trifluoromethyl group or a chlorine atom, and the salts thereof, have a strong analgetic activity. This group of compounds belongs to the group of phenyl piperazine derivatives descri bed in the above mentioned European Patent Application. Analgetically active compounds according to the invention are, for example 1 E2 N acetylamino ethyg 4 3 chlorophenyl piperazine, 1 2 N acetylamino ethylg 4 3 trifluoromethylphenyl pipera zine, 1 2 N aminocarbonylamino ethyl 4 3 chlorophenyl piperazine, l t2 N aminocarbonylamino ethyil 4 3 trifluoromethylphenyl piperazine, 1 N acetyl N methylamino ethyil 4 3 trifluoromethyIphe nyl piperazine, 1 N formylamino ethyl 4 3 chlorophenyl piperazine, iE2 N formylamino ethyl 4 3 trifluoromethylphenyl pipera zine, and 1 2 N methoxycarbonylamino ethyl 4 3 trifluoromethylphe nyl piperazine. Surprisingly, the said analgetic activity of the compounds according to the invention has been found not to be associated with the sympatholytic properties described for the above mentioned known and structurally closely related compounds, which properties are undesired for analgetics. Other side effects undesired for use as analgetics, for example, dopaminolytic properties, muscle relaxing properties and sedative properties, are also absent in the dosages in which the analgetic activity occurs. It is surprising that the compounds according to the invention have such a strong analgetic activity, since structurally closely related known compounds have quite a different pharmacological activity pattern. The analgetically active compounds according to the invention have ED50 values which vary from 4 to 10 mg kg, while structurally related compounds known from the above mentioned United States Patent Specification generally show ED50 values of more than 100 mg kg. These ED50 values were determined in an analgetic test in mice Brit. J. Pharm. 9, 1954 , 280 . In this test the pain stimulus was generated by placing bulldog clips on the tailhead of a mouse. The animals try to remove the pain stimulus by biting. The non occurrence of the pain response after administration of test substances is a measure of the analgetic activity.The compounds to be tested were administered orally.Five mice were used per dose. Sixty minutes after the administration of the compounds to be tested, the occurrence of the pain response was established. From the results obtained the ED50 values in mg kg of active substance per kg of body weight were calculated. Since in the compounds no undesired side effects were found, these readily analgetically active substances are suitable for use in humane medicine in the treatment of both acute pain and chronic pain.The quantity, frequency and way of administration may differ for each individual case, also dependent on the nature and the severity of the disturbances. For use in men a dosing of 5 500 mg and preferably from 25 150 mg daily will generally be suitable. The active compounds according to the invention and their salts can be processed to compositions such as pills, tablets, coated tablets, capsules, powders, injection liquids and the like according to the known standard methods while using the conventional auxiliary substances such as solid and liquid carrier materials. As examples of pharmaceutically acceptable acids with which the compounds according to the invention can form salts may be mentioned hydrochloric acid, sulphuric acid, nitric acid, citric acid, fumaric acid, maleic acid, tartaric acid, methanesulfonic acid, benzoic acid, and the like. The compounds of formula 3 and their salts can be prepared according to the methods which are suitable for the synthesis of analogous compounds. Suitable preparation methods are described in the above mentioned European PatentApplication 80200173.5. EXAMPLE ITablet 50 mg of 1 t2 N aminocarbonylamino ethyu 4 3 trifluoro methylphenyl piperazine.HCl 335 mg of lactose 60 mg of potato starch 25 mg of talcum 5 mg of magnesium stearate 5 mg of gelatin EXAMPLE IISuppository 50 mg of 1 C2 N aminocarbonylamino ethy 4 3 trifluoro methylphenyl piperazine,HCl 1500 mg of suppository mass EXAMPLE III Injection liquid 25 g of 1 62 N aminocarbonylamino ethyj 4 3 trifluoro methylphenyl pipera2ine.HCl 1.80 g of methyl p hydroxybenzoate 0.20 g of propyl p hydroxybenzoate 9.0 g of sodium chloride 26 g of glycerin 1 g of benzyl alcohol water up to 1,000 g.