# 7 Substituted 2,3 dihydrobenzofurans, their preparation and their use as pesticides or as chemical intermediates.

## Abstract
The invention relates to 7 substituted 2,3 dihydro benzofurans. There are provided 7 substituted benzofurans of general formula

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A 7 substituted 2,3 dihydrobenzofuran of general formulaEMI15.1 wherein each RI represents a hydrogen atom or a methyl group X, Y and Z together represent a bridging group CO O C OR , or X is a chlorocarbonyl group, Y is hydrogen and Z is a carboxylate ester group COOR, or X and Y both hydrogen and Z is a carboxylate ester group COOR or a sulfonic acid group SO3H, or a salt thereof and R represents a methyl, ethyl or propynyl group. 2. A 7 substituted 2,3 dihydrobenzofaran according to Coaim 1 wherein when each R1 represents a hydrogen atom, X, Y and Z together represent a bridging group CO O C OCH and when 3, each R1 represents a methyl group, X, Y and Z together represent a bridging group CO O C OR wherein R represents a methyl, ethyl or propynyl group or X is a chlorocarbonyl group, Y is hydrogen and Z is a carboxymethyl or carboxyethyl group. 3. A 7 substituted 2,3 dihydrobenzofuran of formulaEMI16.1 wherein R is methyl, ethyl or propynyl. 4. A 7 substituted 2,3 dihydrobenzofuran of formulaEMI16.2 wherein R is methyl or ethyl. 5. 3 2,3 Dichlorobenzofursn 7 yl 5 methoxy 1,3,4 oxadiazol 2 3H one. 6. A process for preparing a 7 substituted 2,3 dihydrobenzofuran of formula I as defined in any of Claims 1 to 5 wherein X, Y and Z together represent a bridging group CO O C OR , or X is a chlorocarbonyl group, Y is hydrogen and Z is a carboxy late ester group COOR, and R represents a methyl, ethyl or propynyl group, which process comprises reacting an ester of formulaEMI16.3 wherein R and R1 are as defined in Claim 1 with phosgene in an inert solvent, followed where necessary by treating the resulting compound of formula I wherein X is a chlorocarbonyl group, Y is hydrogen and Z is carboxylate ester group COOR with a base to produce a compound of formula I wherein X, Y and Z together represent a bridging group CO O C OR . 7. A pesticidal composition comprising a 7 substituted 2,3 di hydrobenzofuran of formula I as defined in any one of claims 2 to 5 in association with an inert carrier therefor. 8. A method of combating pests at a locus which comprises applying to the locus a 7 substituted 2,3 dihydrobenzofuran of formula I as defined in any one of Claims 2 to 5 or a composition according to Claim 7.

## Description
7 Substituted 2 ,3 dihydrobenzofurans , their preparation and their use as pesticides or as chemical intermediates This invention relates to 7 substituted 2,3 dihydrobenzofurans, their preparation, and their use as pesticides or as intermediates in the preparation of pesticidally active compounds. Accordingly to the invention there are provided 7 substituted 2,3 dihydrobenzofurans of general formulaEMI1.1 wherein each RI represents a hydrogen atom or a methyl group X,Y and Z together represent a bridging group CO O C OR , or X is a chlorocarbonyl group, Y is hydrogen and Z is a carboxylate ester group COOR, or X and Y are both hydrogen and Z is a carboxylate ester group COOR or a sulfonic acid group SO3H, or a salt thereof and R represents a methyl, ethyl or propynyl group. Compounds of formula I wherein X, Y and Z together represent a bridging group CO O C OR or wherein X is a chlorocarbonyl group, Y is hydrogen and Z is a carboxylate ester group COOR have been found to exhibit pesticidal, including both insecticidal and acaricidal, activity. Compounds of formula I wherein X and Y are both hydrogen and Z is a carboxylate ester group COOR or a sulphonic acid group S03H, or a salt, e.g. sodium or potassium salt, and wherein X is a chlorocarbonyl group, Y is hydrogen andZ is a carboxylate ester group COOR have utility as chemical intermediates in the preparation of pesticidally active compounds of formula I. A referred, pesticidally active, sub group of compounds of formula I is that wherein when esch R1 represents a hydrogen atom, X, Y and Z together represent a bridging group CO OC OCH3 , and when each RI represents a methyl group, X, Y and Z together represent a bridging group CO O C OR wherein R represents a methyl, ethyl or propynyl group or X is a chlorocarbonyl group, Y is hydrogen and Z is a carboxymethyl or carboxyethyl group. The compound of formula I wherein R1 represents a hydrogne atom and X, Y and Z together represent the bridging group CO O C OCH3 is 3 2,3 dihydrobenzofuran 7 yl 5 methoxy 1,3,4 oxa diazol 2 3H one, and has the formulaEMI2.1 The compounds of formula I wherein R1 represents a methyl group and X, Y and Z together represent the bridging group CO OC OR have the general formulaEMI2.2 wherein R is methyl, ethyl or propynyl. The compounds of formula I wherein R1 represents a methyl group, X is a chlorocarbonyl group, Y is hydrogen and Z is a carboxymethyl or carboxyethyl group have the general formulaEMI3.1 wherein R is methyl or ethyl. In accordance with the invention, compounds of formula I wherein X, Y and Z toghether represent a bridging group CO OC OR , or X is a chlorocarbonyl group, Y is hydrogen and Z is a carboxylate ester group COOR, and R represents a methyl, ethyl or propynyl group, may be prepared by a process which comprises reacting an ester of formulaEMI3.2 whereing R and R1 are as defined above with phosgene in an inert solvent, followed where necessary by treating the resulting compound of formula I wherein X is a chlorocarbonyl group, Y is hydrogen and Z is a carboxylate ester group COOR with a base to produce a compound of formula I wherein X, Y and Z together represent a bridging group CO O C OR . Reaction of the ester of formula IV with phosgene is effected in an inert solvent, such as benzene, conveniently at ambient temperature. Treatment of the resulting compound of formula I wherein X is a chlorocarbonyl group, Y is hydrogen and Z is a carboxylate ester group with a base may conveniently be effected in the presence of a liquid alkanol, such as methanol, as solvent and at a temperature ranging from ambient temperature to the reflux temperature of the reaction mixture. Suitable bases include tertiary amine bases. Ethyldiisopropylamine and triethylamine are examples of preferred bases. The esters of formula IV, which are themselves compounds of formula I wherein X and Y are both hydrogen and Z is a carboxylate ester group COOR, may be prepared by reacting 2,3 dihydro 2,2dimethyl 7 hydrazinobenzofuran or 2,3 dihydro 7 hydrazinobenzofuran, or an acid addition salt thereof, with a chloroformate ester of formulaEMI4.1 where R is as defined above in an inert solvent, such as tetra hydrofuran, in the presence of a base, for example a tertiary amine such as triethylamine or ethyldiisopropylamine. 2, 3 Dihydro 2 , 2 dimethyl T hydrazinobenzofuran and 2,3 dihydro 7 hydrazinobenzofuran, and their acid addition salts, may be prepared, via 2 ,3 dihydro 2 , 2 dimethylbenzofuran 7 yl hydra zinesulfonic acid and 2,3 dihydrobenzofuran 7 yl hydrazine sulfonic acid, or salts thereof e.g. sodium or potassium salts , from 2, 3 dihydro 2 , 2 dimethyl 7 nitrobenzofuran and 2,3 dihydro7 nitrobenzofuran respectively, as described in the examples hereinafter. 2,3 Dihydro 2,2 ethylbenzofuran 7yl hydrazine sulfonic acid, 2,3 dihydrobenzofuran 7 yl hydrazinesulfonic acid and their salts are compounds of formula I wherein X and Y are both hydrogen and Z is a sulfonic acid group SO3H, and salts thereof. The invention also comprehends a pesticidal composition comprising a 2,3 dihydrobenzofuran of formula I wherein each R is hydrogen and X, Y and Z together represent a bridging group CO O C OCH3 or wherein each R is methyl and X, Y and Z together represent a bridging group CO OC OR , wherein R represents a methyl, ethyl or propynyl group, or X is a chlorocarbonyl group, Y is hydrogen and Z is a carboxymethyl or carboxyethyl group, in association with an inert carrier therefor. Such a composition is prepared by bringing the compound of formula I into association with the inert carrier. The invention also provides a method of combating pests at a locus which comprises applying to the locus such a compound of formula I or a pesticidal composition as defined above. The term carrier as used herein mean a solid or fluid material, which may be inorganic or organic and of synthetic or natural origin, with which the active compound is mixed or formulated to facilitate its application to the locus to be treated, or its storage, transport or handling. Suitable solid carriers are natural and synthetic clays and silicates, for example, natural silicas such as diatomaceous earths magnesium silicates, for example talcs magnesium aluminium silicates, for example, attapulgites and vermiculites aluminium silicates, for example, kaolinites, montmorillonites and micas calcium carbonates calcium sulfate synthetic hydrated silicon oxides and synthetic calcuim or aluminium silicates elements such as, for example, carbon and sulfur natural and synthetic resins such as, for example, coumarone resins, polyvinyl chloride and styrene polymers and copolymers solid polychlorophenols bitumen waxes such as, for example, beeswax, paraffin wax, and chlorinated mineral waxes and solid fertilizers, for example, superphosphates. Examples of suitable fluid carriers are water, alcohols, such as for example, isopropanol glycols ketones such as for example, acetone, methyl ethyl ketone, methyl isobutyl ketone and cyclohexanone ethers aromatic hydrocarbons such as for example, benzene, toluene and xylene petroleum fractions such as for example, kerosene, light mineral oils chlorinated hydrocarbons, such as for example, carbon tetrachloride, perchloroethylene, trichloroethane, including liquified normally vaporous gaseous compounds. Mixtures of different liquids are often suitable.The surface active agent may be an emulsifying agent or a dispersing agent or a wetting agent it may be nonionic or ionic. Any of the surface active agents usually applied in formulating herbicides or insectcides may be used. Examples of suitable surface active agents are the sodium or calcium salts of polyacrylic acids and lignin sulfonic acids the condensation products of fatty acids or aliphatic amines or amides containing at least 12 carbon atoms in the molecule with ethylene oxide and or propylene oxide fatty acid esters of glycerol, sorbitan, sucrose or pentaerythritol condensates of these with ethylene oxide and or propylene oxide condensation products of fatty alcohols or alkyl phenols, for example, p octylphenol or p octylcresol, with ethylene oxide and or propylene oxide sulfates or sulfonates of these condensation products, alkali or alkaline earth metal salts, preferably sodium slats, or sulfuric or sulfonic acid esters containing a least 10 carbon atoms in the molecule, for example, sodium lauryl sulfate, sodium secondary alkyl sulfates, sodium salts of sulfonated castor oil, and sodium alkylaryl sulfonates such as sodium dodecylbenzene sulfonate and polymers of ethylene oxide and copolymers of ethylene oxide and propylene oxides. The compositions may be formulated as wettable powders, dusts, granules, solutions, emulsifiable concentrates, emulsions, suspension concentrates and areosols. Wettable powders are usually compounded to contain 25, 50 or 75 by weight and usually contain in addition to solid carrier, 3 10 by weight of a dispersing agent, 15 of a surfaceactive agent and where necessary, 0 10 by weight of stabilizer s and or other additives such as penetrants or stickers. Dusts are usually formulated as a dust concentrate having a similar composition to that of a wettable powder but without a dispersant or surface active agent, and are diluted in the field with further solid carrier to give a composition usually containing 1 2 10 by weight of toxicant.Granules are usually prepared to have a size between 10 and 100 BS mesh 1.676 0.152 mm , and may be manufactured by agglomeration or impregnation techniques. Generally, granules will contain 1 2 25 by weight toxicarwt and 0 1 by weight of additives such as stabilizers, slow release modifiers and binding agents.Emulsifiable concentrates usually contain, in addition to the solvent and, when necessary, cosolvent, 10 50 weight per volume toxicant, 2 20 weight per volume emulsifiers and 0 20 weight per volume of appropriate additives such as stabilizers, pener trants and corrosion inhibitors. Suspension concentrates are compounded so as to obtain a stable, non sedimenting, flowable product and usually contain 10 75 weight toxicant, 0.5 5 weight of dispersing agents, 1 5 of surface active agent, 0.1 10 weight of suspending agents, such as defoamers, corrosion inhibitors, stabilizers, penetrants and stickers, and as carrier, water or an organic liquid in which the toxicant is substantially insoluble certain organic solids or inorganic salts may be dissolved in the carrier to assist in preventing sedimentation or as antifreeze agents for water. Aqueous dispersions and emulsions, for example, compositions obtained by diluting a wettable powder or a concentrate, also are comtemplated. The said emulsions may be of the water in oil or the oil in water type, and may have a thick mayonnaise like consistency. The compositions may also contain other ingredients, for example, other compounds possessing pesticidal, especially insecticidal, acaricidal, herbicidal or fungicidal properties. The method of applying the pesticidal compound to control pests comprises applying it, ordinarily in a composition of one of the aforementioned types, to a locus to be protected from the pests, such as the foliage and or the fruit of plants. It is of course applied in an amount sufficient to exert the desired action. This dosage is dependent upon many factors, including the carrier employed, the method and conditions of the application, whether the formulation is present at a locus in the form of an aerosol, or as a film, or as discrete particles, or the thickness of film or size of particles.In general, however, the effective dosage of the pesticidal compound at the locus to be protected i.e., the dosage which the pests contact is of the order of 0.001 to 0.05 based on the total weight of the formulation, though under some circumstances the effective concentrations will be as little as 0.0001 or as much as 2 , on the same basis. The invention will be further understood from the followingExamples, in which the identity of each precursor, and of each product, was confirmed by appropriate chemical and spectral analyses.Example 1 2 2 chlorocarbonyl 2 2,3 dihydro 2,2 dimethylbenzofuran 7 yl hydrazinecarboxylic acid methyl ester 1 3g of a commercial 10 palladium on charcoal catalyst was added to a solution of 82.2g of 2 ,3 dihydro 2,2 dimethyl 7 nitro benzofuran prepared by the method described in United States patent 3,412,110 in 500ml of tetrahydrofuran. The resulting mixture was treated with hydrogen 50 p.s.i.g in a Parr shaker, then filtered. The solvent was evaporated from the filtrate.The residue was dissolved in one liter of anhydrous ether cooled to 0 C. The solution was treated with a slight excess of gaseous anhydrous hydrogen chloride. The resulting mixture was filtered and the solid was dried to give 7 amino 2,3 dihydro 2,2 dimethylbenzofuran hydrochloride it , as a white solid. A chilled 50C solution of 82.7g of 1A, 146ml of concentrated hydrochloric acid and 450ml of water was diazotized by the drop by drop addition over a 30 minute period of a solution of 31.5g sodium nitrite in 45ml of water. After filtration, the resulting solution was stirred at 50C for 45 minutes and then added drop by drop to a stirred solution of 367g of sodium sulfite in 705ml of water, at 50C. The resulting mixture was stirred for 2 hours at room temperature. Then a slurry of 72.2g of sodium dithionite in looms of water was added in portions. The resulting mixture was stirred for 2 hours at room temperature, then heated at 70 0C for 10 minutes, and 500g of potassium chloride was added. After 18 hours, the resulting mixture was cooled at 50C and filtered. The solid was dried to give the potassium salt of 2,3 dihydro 2,2 dimethylbenzofuran 7 yl hydrazinesulfonic acid 1B , as an off white solid, m.p. approximately 1200C with decomposition . 18g of hydrogen chloride was introduced into a stirred slurry of 56g of 1B in 250ml of ethanol. The resulting mixture was stirred for 3 hours, and the solvent was evaporated. The residue was dissolved in 50ml of water, the solution was made basic with aqueous sodium hydroxide, and extracted with ether.The extract was washed with cold water, dried MgS04 , and filtered, and the solvent was evaporated to give 2,3 dihydro 2,2dimethyl 7 hydrazinobenzofuran 1C as a dark oil. 17.8g of 1C thus prepared and 12.9g of ethyldiisopropylamine were dissolved in 200ml of tetrahydrofuran. 9.45g of methyl chloroformate was added drop by drop to the stirred solution, and the resulting mixture was stirred for one hour. The solvent then was evaporated, the residue was washed with water, extracted with ether, and the extract was dried. Part of the ether was evaporated from the extract and the remaining solution was cooled. The resulting solid was collected to give the methyl ester of 2 2,3dihydro 2,2 dimethylbenzofuren 7 yl hydrazinecarboxylic acid ID , as a white solid, m.p. 101 102 C. A solution of 6.3g of phosgene in 60ml of benzene was added to a solution of 13.5g of ID in looms benzene at room temperature.The resulting mixture was held for 24 hours at room temperature, and the solvent was evaporated to give 1, as a white crystalline solid, m.p. 1l8 l200C. Examples 2 and 3 By the general procedures described in Example 1 2 2chlorocarbonyl 2 2,3 dihydro 2,2dimethyl benzofuran 8 yl hydrazinecarboxylic acid ethyl ester, 2 was prepared, as a solid, m.p. 113 115 C, from the ethyl ester of 2 2,3 dihydro 2,2 dimethylbenzofuran 7 yl hydrazinecarboxylic acid, a white solid, m.p. 94 950C. 2 2 chlorocarbonyl 2 23 dihydro 2s2 dimethylbenzOfuran 7 yl hydrazinecarboxylic acid propynyl ester, 3 , was prepared, as an oil, from the propynyl ester of 2 2,3 dihydro 2,2 dimethyl benzofuran 7 yl hydrazinecarboxylic acid, a white solid, m.p. 70800C.Example 4 3 2,3 dihydro 2,2 dimethylbenzofuran 7 yl 5 methoxy 1,3,4 oxadiazol 2 3H one 4 A solution of 13g of 1 and 15g of ethyldiisopropylamine in 200ml of methanol was refluxed for 15 minutes. After cooling, the solvent was evaporated. The residue was triturated Kith water, acidified with hydrochloric acid and extracted Kith ether.The extract was dried MgS04 and the solvent was evaporated.The residue was crystallized from ether hexane to give 4, as a white solid, m.p. 52 540C. Example 5 and 6 By the general procedure described in Example 4 3 2,3 dihydro 2,2 dimethylbenzofuran 7 yl 5 ethyoxy 1,3,4 oxociazol2 3H one 5 was prepared, as an oil, from 2. 3 2.3 Dihydro 2,2 dimethylbenzofuran 7 yl 5 propynyloxy 1,3,4 oxadiazol 2 3H one 6 , was prepared, as a solid, m.p. 72 740c, from 3.Example 7 2 Chlorocarbonyl 2 2,3 dihydrobenzofuran 7 yl hydrezinecarboxylic acid, methyl ester 7 39.4g of 2,3 dihydro 7 nitrobenzofuran prepared by the method described in Journal of Heterocyclic Chemistry, vol. 5,No. 1, p. 1 1968 in 200ml of tetrahydrofuran was hydrogenated in a Parr shaker 50 p.s.i.g. hydrogen pressure, Raney nickel catalyst, 3 hours, room temperature . The resulting mixture was filtered and the solvent was evaporated from the filtrate. The residue was recrystallized from ether to give 2,3 dihydro 7 benzofuranamine 7A , as a colourless solid, m.p. 70 T20C. 25g of 7A was added to a solution of 65ml of concetrated hydrochloric acid in 200ml of water. The mixture was warmed to 145 0C, and then stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. The mixture was chilled to 50C during the addition over a period of 20 minutes of a solution of 14g of sodium nitrite in 20ml of water. The resulting mixture was stirred at 45 C for 45 minutes, then added drop by drop over a period oflS minutes to a mixture of 164g of sodium sulfite and 315ml of water, at 5 100C. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 hours.A sample of the product sodium 2,3 dihydrobenzofuran 7 yl diazinesulfonate, monohydrate, 7B , a yellow solid, m.p. approximately 1800C with decomposition , was isolated for analysis and the remaining mixture was used directly in the following step. A solution of 32.2g of sodium dithionite in looms of water was added drop by drop over a period of 15 minutes, with stirring, at 25 C, to the final mixture of the preceding step. The resulting mixture was stirred for 2 hours at room temperature, then at 70 C for 10 minutes, then, 148g of potassium chloride was added and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 18 bours,The resulting mixture was chilled to 5 C and filtered. The solid was dried to give potassium 2 2,3 dihydrobenzofuran 7 yl bydrazinesulfonate 7C , m.p. 255 C with decomposition . A mixture of 45.3g of 7C and 500ml of anhydrous methanol was chilled to 5 100C during the addition of 23g of anhydrous hydrochloric acid, stirred at room temperature for 18 hours, and filtered. The solvent was evaporated from the filtrate, and residue being 7 hydrazine 2,3 dihydrobenzofuran hydrochloride 7D . A mixture of 30g of 7D, 150ml of tetrahydrofuran and 24.5g of ethylidiisopropylamine was chilled to 50C while 5.lg of methyl chloroformate was added drop by drop over a period of 10 minutes.The resulting mixture was stirred for 30 minutes at 50C, then warmed to and held at 600C for 10 minutes. The volatile materials were evaporated. The residue was taken up in 300ml of water and extracted with ether. The extract was dried MgS04 and the solvent was partially evaporated. The residue was chilled and filtered to give methyl 3 2,3 dihydrabenzofuran 7 yl hydra zinecarboxylate 7E , as an off white solid, m.p. 110 1120C A solution of 3.5g of 5 in 25ml of benzene was added dropby drop over a period of 5 minutes at room temperature to a stirred solution of 5g of phosgene in 75ml of benzene. The mixture was refluxed for one hour, the solvent was evaporated, and the residue was crystellized from methanol to give 7 , as a colourless solid, m.p. 110 112 C.Example 8 3 2,3 ditydrobenzofuran 7 yl 5 methoxy 1,3,4 oxadiazol 2 3H one 8 0.123g of 7 was mixed with Xml of methanol and O.lml of triethylamine and the mixture was allowed to stand overnight. The mixture was diluted with ether, washed with dilute hydrochloric acid, and dried MgS014 , and the solvent was evaporated. The residue was purified by thin layer chromatography to give 8 as a cremm coloured solid m.p. 108 109 C. Activity of compounds of this invention with respect to insect and acarine pests was determined by using standardized test methods to measure the toxicity of the compounds as follows 1. Houseflies Musca domestica Linne were tested by placing 50 4 to 5 day old housflies into a spray cage and spraying with 0.6ml of a solution of test compound. After spraying, the flies were anesthetized with CO2 and transferred to a recovery cage containing a milk pad for food. The cages were held for 18 20 hours after which mortal ity counts were made. Both dead and moribund flies were counted. The tests were conducted employing several dosage rates for each test compound.2. Pea aphids Acyrthosiphon pisum Harris were tested by placing about 100 aphids on broad bean plants. The plants were sprayed with dilutions of an acetone solution of the test compound in water containing an emulsifier and held in containers under laboratory conditions for 18 to 20 hours, at which time the living aphids in the containers were counted. The tests were conducted employing several differ ent dosage rates for each test compound.3. Adult female two spotted spider mites Tetranychus urticae Koch were tested by placing 50 75 mites on the bottom side of leaves of pinto bean plants. The leaves were sprayed with dilutions of an acetone solution of the test compound in water containing an emulsifier and kept under laboratory conditions for about 20 hours, at which time mortality counts were made. The tests were conducted employing several different dosage rates for each test compound.4. Mosquito larvae Anophelus albimanus Weide were tested by placing 10 living and active mosquito larvae in a jar con taining a O.lml aliquot of 1 acetone solution of the test compound thoroughly mixed with looms of distilled water. After 18 22 hours, mortality counts were taken. Both dead and moribund larvae were counted as dead. Larvae which did not swim after being prodded with a needle were considered moribund. The tests were conducted employing several differ ent dosage rates for each compound.5. Corn earworm larvae Heliothis zea Boddie were tested by spraying a broad bean plant with dilutions of an acetone solution of the test compound in water containing an emulsi fier. Immediately after spraying, 5 larvae were transferred to the plant and held for 44 46 hours, at which time the dead and moribund larvae were counted. The tests were conducted employing several different dosage rates for each test compound. In the case of each species of insect, the concen tration of the test compound in the formulation required to kill fifty percent of the test insects i.e., the LC50 dosage was determined. The results are set out in Table I, LC 50 figures being expressed in parts per million. Table I EMI14.1 LC50 SEP ppm tb Compound tb Housefly SEP Pea SEP Aphid SEP Corn SEP Earworm SEP Spidermite SEP Mosquito SEP larvae tb 1 SEP 0.5 SEP 0.00008 SEP 0.043 SEP 0.02 SEP 0.016 tb 2 SEP 0.5 SEP 0.0003 SEP 0.1 SEP 0.2 SEP 0.1 tb 4 SEP 0.005 SEP 0.00003 SEP 0.0218 SEP 0.03 SEP 0.006 tb 5 SEP 0.03 SEP 0.00009 SEP 0.1 SEP 0.2 SEP 0.1 tb 6 SEP 0.019 SEP 0.00015 SEP 0.078 SEP 0.031 SEP 0.1 tb 8 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.0006 SEP 0.023 SEP SEP