# Noise shield wall.

## Abstract
The invention is related to a not environmental polluting noise shield wall comprising several mutually spaced and at a distance from the source of noise erected uprights 1 between which a noise diverting panel 3 is positioned. According to the invention said noise shield wall is composed of horizontally extending wooden laths 4 that are positioned in a zigzag configuration. Preferably said panel at the side turned away from the source of noise comprises a flat wall 7 and noise absorbing material 6 mounted between said zigzag wall and said flat wall.

## Claims
Claims 1. Noise shield wall for diverting and or absorbing noise generated by traffic on a road or in another way comprising several mutually spaced and at a distance from the source of noise erected uprights between which a noise diverting panel is positioned, characterized in that the noise diverting panel is composed of horizontally extending wooden laths that are positioned in a zigzag configuration. 2. Noise shield wall according to claim 1 characterized in that the side of the panel turned away from the source of the noise comprises a flat wall. 3. Noise shield wall according to claim 2, characterized in that said flat wall comprises boards that are mutually connected by a tongue and groove joint. 4. Noise shield wall according to claim 1 3 characterized in that between the sound diverting panel and the flat wall noise absorbing material is provided. 5. Noise shield wall according to claim 1 characterized in that the zigzag positioned laths mutually include an angle of 900. 6. Noise shield wall according to claim 1 5 characterized in that the zigzag positioned laths mutually engage with a notch.

## Description
Noise shield wall. The invention is related to a noise shield wall for diverting and or absorbing noise generated by traffice on a road or in another way comprising several mutually spaced and at a distance from the source of noise erected uprights between which a noise diverting panel is positioned. Noise shield walls are known in a plurality of designs.The simplest is an earth wall with or without vegetation. Such a wall is environmental not polluting but requires a good deal of space.Another embodiment is as indicated above. This wall can be made out of any suitable material, requires little space but is environmental polluting. This wall interferes with a natural environment. The invention aims to provide a noise shield wall of the type as indicated in the above first paragraph of this description, which wall does not interfere in natural surroundings. According to the invention this is obtained by the fact that the noise diverting panel is composed of horizontally extending wooden laths that are positioned in a zigzag configuration. By execution in wood the interfering effect is at least strongly reduced while moreover the advantage is obtained that the wood absorbs at least a part of the noise. Preferable the embodiment is such that the side of the panel turned away from the source of the noise comprises a flat wall. This wall serves as a support wall and provides a not polluting appearence to the back of the panel. Preferably the design is such that said flat wall comprises boards that are mutually connected by a tongue and groove joint. Possible noise still penetrating from the front side will be absorbed by this flat wall.In case the risk is still incurred that noise penetrates the waR than it is preferred that between the sound diverting panel and the flat wall noise absorbing material is provided. The horizontally extending laths mutually include such an angle that a maximum relfexion of the noise is obtained. Mostly this angle is about 900 and it is preferred that the zigzag positioned laths mutually engage with a notch. In case it is desired to improve the noise absorbing capacity of the noise shield wall it is possible to provide said laths with perforations for instance in the shape of slits as is known per sé. The design of the noise shield wall can be such that the uprights are provided with a notch with which engage the ends of the composing parts in such a manner that these parts as it were are loose stacked in the shape of a panel. With the aid of a drawing that shows an embodiment in vertical section the invention will be described in detail. The noise shield wall is composed of uprights 1 that are positioned mutually spaced. The uprights are provided with ledges 2 that form a slot in which panel 3 can be inserted. The panel is composed out of laths 4 of which each is provided with a notch 5 and that are loose stacked on each other in a zig zag pattern. These laths at one side abut the ledge 2 and on the other side abut one side of a layer of noise absorbing material 6. Said material at its other side is supported by boards 7 that mutually are connected by a tongue and groove joint 8. This shield can be covered at its upperside by a so called covering board 9 and with boards 10 connected to its lower side. It is also possible to trim the front edge with a coverlath 11 that can be fixed in a position that is favourable for reflecting noise vertically positioned in the drawing . Noise originating from a source not shown at the righthand side of the drawing is dispersi downwards and upwards for which the angle enclosed by the zigzag positioned laths is choosen as favourable as possible for this dispersion . Possible not dspersed or absorbed noise is subsequently intercepted by the noise absorbing material. In case the noise penetrates still further the back wall still has sufficient absorbing capacity to take up this remainder of the noise. It will be clear that the invention provides an effective easily erectable not polluting noise shield wall.