# 7 Acylamino cephalosporin compounds, their preparation and pharmaceutical formulations containing them.

## Abstract
7 Acylamino cephalosporins compounds are described. They have the following formula CHEM wherein R is hydrogen or an acyl group of the formula R min wherein R min is hydrogen, C1 C4 alkyl, or C1 C4 alxyl substituted by halogen or cyano or R min is a group of the formula CHEM wherein R1 is phenoxy, phenylthio, phenyl, hydroxyphenyl, halophenyl, halo substituted hydroxyphenyl, or C1 C4 alkylphenyl, thienyl, furyl, or 2 aminothiazol 4 yl, a is hydrogen b is hydrogen, hydroxy or amino, and a and b when taken together form an oximino group of the formula CHEM wherein R2 is hydrogen, C1 C4 alkyl or a group of the formula CHEM wherein R3 and R4 independently are hydrogen, C1 C4 alkyl, or R3 and R4 when taken together with the carbon atom to which they are attached form a four, five or six membered carbocyclic ring

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A compound of the formulaEMI28.1 wherein R is hydrogen or an acyl group of the formulaEMI28.2 wherein R is hydrogen, C1 C4 alkyl, or C1 C4 alkyl substituted by halogen or cyano or R is a group of the formulaEMI28.3 wherein R1 is phenoxy, phenylthio, phenyl, hydroxyphenyl, halophenyl, halo substitutedhydroxyphenyl, or C1 C4 alkylphenyl, thienyl, furyl, or 2 aminothiazol 4 yl, a is hydrogen b is hydrogen, hydroxy or amino, and a and b when taken together form an oximino group of the formulaEMI28.4 wherein R2 is hydrogen, C1 C4 alkyl or a group of the formulaEMI29.1 wherein R3 and R independently are hydrogen, C1 C4 alkyl, or R3 and Rq when taken together with the carbon atom to which they are attached form a four, five or six membered carbocyclic ring R5 is hydrogen or a carboxy protecting group and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. 2. The compound of claim 1 wherein R is hydrogen. 3. The compound of claim 1 wherein R is an acyl groupEMI29.2 4. The compound of claim 3 wherein R is.a group of the formulaEMI29.3 5. The compound of claim 4 wherein a and b are both hydrogen. 6. The compound of claim 4 wherein a is hydrogen and b is hydroxy or amino. 7. The compound of claim 4 wherein a and b together form an oximino group. 8. The compound of claim 5, 6 or 7 whereinR1 is phenyl or 2 furyl. 9. The compound of claim 7 wherein R1 is 2 amino 1,3 thiazol 4 yl. 10. The compound of claim 9 of the formulaEMI30.1 and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. 11. An antibiotic formulation comprising a compound of the formula I wherein R is an acyl groupEMI30.2 and a pharmaceutical carrier. 12. The formulation of claim 11 wherein is is a group of the formulaEMI30.3 13. The formulation of claim 12 wherein a and b together form an oximino group. 14. The formulation of claim 12 comprising the antibiotic of the formula EMI31.1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. 15. A process for the preparation of a compound of the formulaEMI31.2 wherein R is hydrogen or an acyl group of the formulaEMI31.3 wherein R is hydrogen, C1 C4 alkyl, or C1 C4 alkyl substituted by halogen or cyano or R is a group of the formulaEMI31.4 wherein R1 is phenoxy, phenylthio, phenyl, hydroxyphenyl, halophenyl, halo substitutedhydroxyphenyl, or C1 C4 alkylphenyl, thienyl, furyl, or 2 aminothiazol 4 yl, a is hydrogen b is hydrogen, hydroxy or amino, and a and b when taken together form an oximino group of the formulaEMI32.1 wherein R2 is hydrogen, C1 C4 alkyl or a group of the formulaEMI32.2 wherein R3 and R4 independently are hydrogen, C1 C4 alkyl, or R3 and Rd when taken together with the carbon atom to which they are attached form a four, five or six membered carbocyclic ring R5 is hydrogen or a carboxy protecting group and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof which comprises reacting a compound of the formulaEMI32.3 wherein R7 is C1 C4 acyloxy or halo, RO is hydrogen or a carboxylic acid protecting ester group, and R8 is hydrogen orEMI33.1 wherein R is defined above with a l cyanomethyl lH tetrazole 5 thiol compound of the formulaEMI33.2 in an inert organic solvent. 16. The process of claim 15 wherein the starting material is a compound of formula II whereinR7 is acetoxy, Rs isEMI33.3 wherein R is the same as defined for formula I and R0 is hydrogen. 17 A process of claim 15 wherein the start ing material is a compound of formula II erF R7 is acetoxy and R8 and RG are both hydrogen. 18. A process of claim 17 wherein the resulting l cyanomethyl lH tetrazole 5 thiol substituted nucleus is acylated with a carboxylic acid of the formula R COOH, wherein R is the same as defined in formula I. 19. A process of claim TB wherein the result ing l cyanomethyl lH tetrazole 5 thiol substituted nucleus is acylated with an active derivative of the carboxylic acid of the formula R COX wherein R is the same as defined for formula I and X is chloro, bromo, azido, or an active ester forming moiety. 20. A process of claim 15 wherein the starting material is a compound of formula II wherein R7 isOEMI34.1 chloro, bromo or iodo,R8 is R C wherein R is the same as defined in formula I and R is a carboxylic acid protecting ester group. 21 The process of claim 20 wherein the reaction is carried out in the presence of a hydrogen halide acceptor. 22. The process of claim 20 wherein the carboxylic acid protecting ester group is removed to provide the corresponding acid. 23. A compound according to any of claims 1 to 10, for use as an antibiotic. CLAIMS 1. A process for the preparation of a compound of the formulaEMI35.1 wherein R is hydrogen or an acyl group of the formulaEMI35.2 wherein R is hydrogen, Cl Ca alkyl, or C1 C4 alkyl substituted by halogen or cyano or Rl iS a group of the formulaEMI35.3 wherein R1 is phenoxy, phenylthio, phenyl, hydroxyphenyl, halophenyl, halo substitutedhydroxyphenyl, or C1 C4 alkylphenyl, thienyl, furyl, or 2 aminothiazol 4 yl, a is hydrogen, b is hydrogen, hydroxy or amIno, and a and b when taken together form an oximino group of the formulaEMI35.4 wherein R2 is hydrogen, C1 C4 alkyl or a group of the formulaEMI36.1 wherein R3 and R4 independently are hydrogen, C1 C4 alkyl, or R3 and R4 when taken together with the carbon atom to which they are attached form a four, five or six membered carbocyclic ring R5 is hydrogen or a carboxy protecting group and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof characterized in that a compound of the formulaEMI36.2 wherein R7 is C1 C4 acyloxy or halo, R0 is hydrogen or a carboxylic acid protecting ester group, and Rs is hydrogen orEMI36.3 wherein R is defined above is reacted with a l cyanomethyl lH tetrazole 5 thiol compound of the formula EMI37.1 in an inert organic solvent. 2. The process of claim 1 characterized in that the starting material is a compound of formula II wherein R7 is acetoxy, R8 isEMI37.2 wherein R is the same as defined for formula I andR0 is hydrogen. 3. The process of claim 2 characterized in that the reaction temperature is 350C. to about 750C. 4. The process of claim 2 or 3 characterized in that the pH of the reaction is about 7 to about 9. 5. A process of claim 1 characterized in that the starting material is a compound of formula II wherein R7 is acetoxy and R8 and R0 are both hydrogen. 6. A process of claim 5 characterized in that the reaction temperature is about 400C. to about 75 C. 7. A process of claim 5 or 6 characterized in that the reaction temperature is about 600C. 8. A process of claim 5, 6 or 7 characterized in that the pH of the reaction is about 7 to about 9. 9. A process of anyone of claims 5 to 8 characterized in that the resulting l cyanomethyl lH tetrazole 5 thiol substituted nucleus is acylated with a carboxylic acid of the formula R COOH, whereinR is the same as defined in formula I. 10. A process of claim 9 characterized in that the resulting l cyanomethyl lH tetrazole 5 thiol substituted nucleus is acylated with an active derivative of the carboxylic acid of the formula R COX wherein R is the same as defined for formula I and X is chloro, bromo, azido, or an active ester forming moiety. 11. A process of claim 1 characterized in that the starting material is a compound of formula II wherein R7 is chloro, bromo or iodo, R8 isEMI38.1 wherein R is the same as defined in formula I and RO is a carboxylic acid protecting ester group. 12. The process of claim 11 characterized in that the reaction is carried out in the presence of a hydrogen halide acceptor. 13 The process of claim 11 characterized in that the carboxylic acid protecting ester group is removed to provide the corresponding acid.

## Description
7 ACYLAMINO CEPHALOSPORIN COMPOUNDS, THEIR PREPARATION AND PHARMACEUTICAL FORMULATIONS CONTAINING THEM This invention relates to cephalosporin antibiotic compounds. In particular it relates to.broad spectrum cephalosporin antibiotics substituted with a l cyanomethyl lfl tetrazol 5 ylthiomethyl group repre sented by the following general formula,EMI1.1 wherein R is hydrogen or an acyl group derived from a carboxylic acid, and to the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. The cyanomethyltetrazole substituted cephalosporins can be prepared by reacting a 7 acylamino 3 acetoxymethyl cephalosporin or 7 aminocephalosporanic acid with l cyanomethyl lH tetrazole 5 thiol. Alternatively, they can be prepared by the reaction of a 7 acylamino 3 halomethyl substituted cephalosporin with the l cyanomethyl 1H tetrazole 5 thiol, These cephalosporin antibiotics exhibit high antibacterial activity against both gram positive and gram negative bacteria. A number of cephalosporin antibiotics which bear a heterocyclicthiomethyl group in the 3 position of the 3 cephem bicyclic ring system are known. Among such heterocyclic groups is the 5 membered tetrazolthiomethyl group and variously substituted tetrazolthio methyl substituent groups. For example, Takano et al.,U.S. Patent 3,516,997 teach lH tetrazolthiomethyl and l methyl lH tetrazolthiomethyl substituted compounds, notably the antibiotic known as cefazolin. Ryan, U.S.Patent 3,641,021 describes cephalosporin antibiotics wherein the 3 position is substituted with a 1 Cl C3 lH tetrazolthiomethylgroup. In particular, Ryan describes the clinically useful antibiotic known as cephamandole, 7 D mandelamido 3 1 methyl lH tetrazolthiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid. Berges, U.S. Patent 4,101,656 describes cephalosporins having a tetrazolthiomethyl substituent which is substituted with an alkylsulfonamidoalkyl group. U.S. Patent ,100,346 teaches cephalosporin antibiotics substituted with l carboxyethyl and l carboxypropyl lH tetrazolthiomethyl substituents. British Patent Specification No. 1,525,626 teaches certain cephalosporin compounds having a l carboxymethyl l tetrazothiomethyl substituent in the 3 position. Intensive research continues with the cephalosporin antibiotics because of the desire to synthesize antibiotics even more potent than those in clinical use. The cephalosporin compounds provided by this invention exhibit antibacterial activity against a broad spectrum of microorganisms infectious to man and animals. They differ structurally from the known cephalosporin compounds by possessing as part of their structure a cyanomethyl substituted lH tetrazolthiomethyl substituent in the 3 position of the cephem ring structure. The cephalosporin compounds of this invention are represented by the following structural formula IEMI3.1 wherein R is hydrogen or an acyl group of the formulaEMI3.2 wherein R is hydrogen, C1 C4 alkyl, or C1 C4 alkyl substituted by cyano or halogen a group of the formulaEMI3.3 wherein R1 is phenoxy, phenylthio, phenyl, hydroxyphenyl, halophenyl, halo substituted hydroxyphenyl, C1 C4 alkylphenyl, thienyl, furyl, or 2aminothiazol 4 yl a is hydrogen b is hydrogen, hydroxy, or amino and a and b when taken together form an oximino group of the formulaEMI3.4 wherein R2 is hydrogen, C1 C4 alkyl or a group of the formulaEMI4.1 wherein R3 and R4 independently are hydrogen, C1 C4 alkyl, or R3 and R4 when taken together with the carbon atom to which they are attached form a four, five or six membered carbocyclic ring R5 is hydrogen or a carboxy protecting group and the pharmaceutically acceptable, non toxic salts thereof. As used in the above formula I the following terms have the indicated meanings C1 c4 alkyl , means methyl, ethyl, n propyl, iso propyl, n butyl, t butyl, and like straight or branched chain lower alkyl groups halogen refers to fluoro, chloro or bromo C1 C4 alkyl substituted by cyano or halogen refers to cyanomethyl, 2 cyanoethyl, l cyanoethyl, 3 cyanopropyl, 4 cyanobutyl, chloromethyl, bromomethyl, 2 bromoethyl, l chloroethyl, 2 chloropropyl, 4 bromobutyl, and the like hydroxyphenyl refers to the mono or di hydroxyphenyl groups such as 4 hydroxyphenyl, 3 hydroxyphenyl, 2 hydroxyphenyl, 2,4 dihydroxyphenyl, 3 ,4 dihydroxy phenyl, and the like halophenyl refers to the monoor di halophenyl groups such as 4 chlorophenyl, 3,4dichlorophenyl, 3 bromophenyl, 4 f luorophenyl, 3fluorophenyl, and the like halo substitted hydroxy phenyl refers to halo substituted mono or dihydroxyphenyl groups such as 3 chloro 4 hydroxyphenyl, 4chloro 3,5 dihydroxyphenyl, 4 hydroxy 3,5 dichlorophenyl, 3 fluoro 4 hydroxyphenyl, 2 fluoro 4 hydroxyphenyl, 3 bromo 4 hydroxyphenyl, and the like C1 C4 alkylphenyl refers to the mono or di lower alkylphenyl groups such as 2 , 3 , or 4 methylphenyl, 4 ethylphenyl, 3,4 dimethylphenyl, 4 t butylphenyl, 4 n propylphenyl, and the like, such alkylphenyl groups can be optionally substituted with hydroxy, or halogen groups and thienyl and furyl refer to the respective 2 and 3 isomers thereof. The following compounds are examples of compounds of the invention represented by the formula I 7 formamido 3 l cyanomethyl lH tetrazol 5 ylthiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid, 7 acetamido 3 l cyanomethyl lH tetrazol 5 ylthiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid, 7 cyanoacetamido 3 l cyanomethyl lH tetrazol 5 ylthiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid, 7 bromoacetamido 3 l cyanomethyl lH tetrazol 5 ylthiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid, 7 phenylacetamido 3 1 cyanomethyl lH tetrazol 5 .ylthiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid, 7 phenoxyacetamido 3 l cyanomethyl lH tetrazol 5 ylthiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid, 7 phenylmercaptoacetamido 3 1 cyanomethyl lH tetrazol 5 ylthiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid, 7 2 thienylacetamido 3 1 cyanomethyl lH tetrazol 5 ylthiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid, 7 2 furylacetamido 3 1 cyanomethyl 1H tetrazol 5 ylthiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid and when in formula 1, b is hydroxy or amino, 7 mandelamido 3 1 cyanomethyl 1H tetrazol 5 ylthiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid, 7 a hydroxy a 2 thienyl acetamido 3 l cyanomethyl lH tetrazol 5 ylthiomethyl 3 cephem 4carboxylic acid, 7 phenylglycylamino 3 1 cyanomethyl lH tetra zol 5 ylthiomethyl 3 cephein 4 carboxylic acid, and when in formula 1, a and b are taken together to form an oximino group, 7 a methoximino a 2 amino 1,3 thiazol 4 yl acetamido 3 l cyanomethyl lH tetrazol 5 ylthiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid, 7 alpha ethoxyimino phenylacetamido 3 1 cyanomethyl lH tetrazol 5 ylthiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid, 7 alpha methoxyimino alpha 2 furyl acetamido 3 l cyanomethyl lH tetrazol 5 ylthiomethyl 3 cephem4 carboxylic acid, 7 a isopropoxyimino a 2 amino 1,3 thiazole 4 yl acetamido 3 1 cyanomethyl lH tetrazole 5 ylthiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid, 7 a methoxyimino a 2 thienyl acetamido 3 1 cyanomethyl lH tetrazole 5 ylthiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid, 7 a 2 carboxyprop 2 yloxyimino a 2amino 1,3 thiazol 4 yl acetamido 3 1 cyanomethyl 1H tetrazol 5 ylthiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid, and 7 a carboxycyclobut l yloxyimino a 2 amino l, 3 thiazol 4 yl acetamido 3 l cyanomethyl lH tetrazol 5 ylthiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid The cephalosporin compounds of this invention have the conventional stereochemical configuration of the known cephalosporins. For example, the 7 position side chain is h the carbon atom in the side chain to which is attached either the amino group or the hydroxy group b NH2 or OH, formula I has the D configuration and when in formula I, a and b form an oximino group, the oxime function can have either the syn or anti configuration or a mixture of both. Preferably the oxime is in the syn form. As with the known cephalosporin antibiotics the carboxylic acid group in the 4 position of the cephem ring system is acidic and forms salts with suitable bases. Preferred salts are the pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic salts such as the alkali metal salts for example, the sodium or potassium salts the calcium salt, the aluminum salt, salts formed with amines and ammonia such as the ammonium salt, the di lower alkylamine salts, the diethanolamine salt, the dibenzylamine salt, the cyclohexylamine salt, the dicyclohexylamine salt, the procaine salt, and like amine salts. These salts are formed by conventional procedures employed in the cephalosporin art. The cephalosporin compounds of this invention are prepared via alternative methods. According to one method a 7 acylamino 3 acetoxymethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid represented by the formula EMI8.1 wherein R has the same meanings as defined for formula I, is reacted with l cyanomethyl 1H tetrazole 5 thiol represented by the formulaEMI8.2 to form the compound of the formula I. The reaction can be carried out at a temperature between about 350C.and about 75 C. under aqueous conditions at a pH ofabout 7 to about 9 and preferably in the presence of a water miscible organic solvent such as acetonitrile or tetrahydrofuran. The above reaction can also bye carried out under non aqueous conditions by following the process described by Hatfield in U.S. Patent o. 4,144,391 According to another method, 7 aminocephalosporanic acid is reacted with l cyanomethyl ls tetrazole 5 thiol and the 7 amino 3 1 cyanomethyl lH tetrazole 5 ylthiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid obtained is N acylated at the 7 amino group to obtain the compound of formula I. This method is illustrated by the following reaction scheme. EMI9.1 In the first step of the above sequence the acetoxy group of 7ACA is displaced by the tetrazole thiol in an aqueous medium at a pH of about 7 to 9.The displacement is best carried out at a temperature of about 600C. although product is obtained over the range of from about 400C. to about 750C. In the second step the substituted nucleus is acylated at the amino group in the 7 position with the desired carboxylic acid R COOH to form the acylated product. In the above reaction scheme, R COX, refers to an active derivative of the carboxylic acid. For example, X can be chloro, bromo, azido, or an active ester forming moiety such asEMI10.1 formed with methyl or isobutyl chloroformate and the acid, or other active esters such as those formed with hydroxybenzotriazole HBT or hydroxysuccinimide. The acylation is carried out by employing the acylation techniques used in the acylation of other cephalosporin nuclei such as 7ACA and 7ADCA. Alternatively, the compounds of the invention are prepared by reacting a 7 acylamino 3 halomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid ester with l cyanomethyl lX tetrazole 5 thiol as illustrated in the following reaction scheme. EMI11.1 wherein X represents chloro, bromo or iodo and R is a carboxy protecting ester group. The reaction is preferably carried out in an inert organic solvent such as methylene chloride in the presence of a hydrogen halide acceptor such as pyridine or triethylamine. Following the reaction the ester group RO is removed via deesterification to provide the compound of formula I. In carrying cut the preparation the carboxylic acid group of the starting material is protected by esterification. Ester groups which are commonly used for the temporary protection of cephalosporin acids can be used. For example, such esters include the benzyl, diphenylmethyl, p nitrobenzyl, p methoxybenzyl, t butyl, 2,2,2 trichloroethyl, 2iodoethyl, and phenacyl esters. Silyl esters, such as trimethylsilyl can be employed with success under essentially anhydrous conditions. The compounds of the invention are in general prepared preferably by the first of the above described methods, i.e. by the displacement of the acetoxy group of a 7 acylamino 3 acetoxymethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid with the cyanomethyltetrazole 5 thiol. The compounds of the formula I wherein R is C1 C4 alkyl substituted by halogen, are prepared by acylating the 3substituted nucleus, 7 amino 3 l cyanomethyl lH tetrazol 5 ylthiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid, formula I, R H . A preferred group of antibiotics of this invention are represented by the formula I wherein R is an acyl group of the formulaEMI12.1 wherein a and b are taken together to form an oximino group of the formulaEMI12.2 The preferred compounds are thus represented by the formulaEMI13.1 An especially preferred group of compounds are represented by the above formula when R1 is the 2 amino 1,3 thiazol 4 yl group. These compounds are represented by the following structural formulaEMI13.2 Preferably the oximino compounds of the above formula have the syn configuration. The preferred compounds of the above formulas are prepared, as described previously herein, by the displacement of the acetoxy group of a 3 acetoxymethyl3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid having the desired oximino substituted 7 acyl side chain as illustrated below.EMI13.3 For example, when R1 in the above formula is the 2 amino 1,3 thiazol 4 yl group and R2 is methyl, 75 a methOxyimino a 2 amino 1,3 thiazol 4 yl acetamido 3 acetoxymethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid is added to a solution of l cyanomethyl lH tetrazole 5 thiol in pH 7 buffer containing sodium bicarbonate and the solution is heated at a temperature of about 500 to about 750C. for about 3 hours. The product is isolated and can be purified by chromatography. Reverse phase silica gel HPLC chromatography is a preferred purification technique especially useful for the separation and purification of the preferred oximino compounds of the invention wherein R1 is the 2 amina 1,3 thiazol 4 yl group. The 3 acetoxymethyl 3 cephems having the 2 amino 1,3 thiazole oxime side chain wherein R2 is C1 C4 alkyl, which are used in the preparation of preferred compounds of this invention are described byU.S. Patent No. 4,152,432. The preferred compounds wherein R2 is a carboxy substituted alkyl moiety of the formula EMI14.1 as defined above, are prepared in an analogous manner, for example by following the procedures described byU.S. Patent 4,162,360 for the preparation of the substituted oximes described therein.For example an amino protected 2 amino i, 3 thiazol 4 ylacetic acid a oxime of the formula EMI15.1 wherein P is an amino protecting group such as an acid hydrolisable group which forms a urethane with the amino for example, t butyloxycarbonyl, benzhydryloxycarbonyl, and benzyloxycarbonyl, is converted with potassium t butoxide to the salt of the oxime hydroxy group and the latter is alkylated with the appropriate carboxy substituted alkyl halide.For example1 7 a 2 carboxyprop 2 yloxyimino a 2 amino 1,3 thiazol 4 yl acetamido 3 1 cyanomethyl lH tetrazol 5 ylthio methyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid represented by the formulaEMI15.2 can be prepared by acylating 7 aminocephalosporanic acid with a 2 4 methoxybenzyloxycarbonyl prop 2 ylcXimino 2 t butyloxycarbamido 1,3 thiazol 4 ylacetic acid to provide the esterified and amino protected intermediate represented by the following formula EMI16.1 wherein t BOC represents the t butyloxycarbonyl group and pMB represents the p methoxybenzyl group.The acylation is carried out by condensing the acetic acid oxime with 7 ACA in the presence of a condensing agent such as a carbodiimide, for example, dicyclohexylcarbodiimide or, alternatively the acetic acid oxime can be converted to a mixed anhydride, such as that formed with methyl or isobutyl chloroformate, and the mixed anhydride used to couple with 7 ACA. Following the N acylation of 7 ACA the intermediate is reacted with trifluoroacetic acid in anisole to effect the removal of the amino protecting group and the p methoxybenzyl ester group. After deprotection, the deprotected acylation product is reacted with l cyanomethyl lH tetrazole 5 thiol as described previously to provide the compound of the invention. The cephalosporin compounds of this invention are broad spectrum antibiotics which are useful in combatting infections of man and animals when administered parenterally. The antibacterial activity of the compounds of the invention is illustrated by the in vitro activity of a preferred compound, 75 a methoxyimino c 2 amino 1,3 thiazol 4 yl acetamido 3 1 cyanomethyl lH tetrazol 5 ylthiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid, against a wide spectrum of microorganisms. The activity was determined by the agar dilution technique using serial dilution. The results are tabulated in Table I. TABLE I In vitro Antibacterial Activity Of 7ss a methoxyimino a 2 amino 1,3 thiazol 4 yl acetamido 3 l cyanomethyl lH tetrazol 5 ylthio methyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid Minimum InhibitoryMicroorganism Strain Concentration mcg ml Staphylococcus aureus Xl.l 1Staphylococcus aureus V41 4Staphylococcus aureus X400 32Staphylococcus aureus S13E 8Staphylococcus epidermidis EPI1 4Staphylococcus epidermidis EPI2 8Streptococcus Group A C203 .015Streptococcus pneumoniae Park .03Streptococcus Group D X66 128Streptococcus Group D 9960 128Haemophilus influenzae C.L..03Haemophilus influenzae 76 .015Shigella sonnei N9 .125Escherichia coli N10 .25Escherichia coli EC14 .06Escherichia coli TEM .06Klebsiella sp. KAE 2Enterobacter aerogenes X68 .06Enterobacter aerogenes C32 .125Enterobacter aerogenes EB17 .25Enterobacter cloacae EB5 1Enterobacter cloacae 265A 32 Table I cont.Salmonella sp. X514 .125Salmonella sp. 1335 .5Pseudomonas aeruginosa X528 16Pseudomonas aeruginosa X239 16Pseudomonas aeruginosa Psl8 32Serratia marcescens X93 .125Serratia marcescens 3E3 .25Proteus morganii PR15 .06Proteus inconstans PR33 .125Proteus rettgeri PR7 .06Proteus rettgeri C24 .125Citrobacter freundii CF17 8Bordetella bronchoseptica 16 64 sensitive strain of H. influenzae resistant strain of H. influenzae l Cyanomethyl lH tetrazole 5 thiol used in the preparation of the compounds of the invention is obtained when ethyl azidoacetate is heated at a temperature of about 1250C. with an excess of cyanogen chloride to form ethyl 5 chloro lH tetrazole l ylacetate as a crystalline solid. The latter product is converted to the 5 thiol by heating the 5 chloro tetrazole with sodium hydrosulfide in an organic solvent such as ethyl alcohol. The reaction is carried out satisfactorily at the reflux temperature in ethyl alcohol for about 20 24 hours. The thiol is recovered by concentrating the reaction mixture and extracting with an organic solvent, for example, ethyl acetate. The ethyl 5 thiol lH tetrazole l ylacetate product is then converted to the amide by heating the 5 thiol ester in a mixture of concentrated ammonium hydroxide, ammonium chloride and ethyl alcohol. The amide is recovered as the ammonium salt. The amide, 5 thiol lH tetrazol l ylacetamide ammonium salt, is then dehydrated to l cyanomethyl lH tetrazol 5 thiol. The dehydration of the amide is carried out by heating a solution of the amide in an inert organic solvent with a dehydrating agent in the presence of a hydrogen halide acceptor. The dehydration of the amide in the last step of the reaction scheme can be carried out in an inert organic solvent such as a halogenated hydrocarbon solvent for example, methylene chloride, chloroform, a di or tri chloroethane, such as l,2 dichloroethane and 1,1,2 trichloroethane. Dehydrating agents which can be used in preparing the l cyanomethyl tetrazole include phosphorus oxychloride, phosphorus pentachloride, phosphorus pentoxide or thionyl chloride. Phosphorus oxychloride is the preferred dehydrating agent. The preparation of the cyanomethyl tetrazole 5 thiol is illustrated in the following reaction scheme. EMI20.1 The compounds of the invention can be formu lated into suitable pharmaceutical formulations for administration. For example1 a compound of the formula I or preferable a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof can be formulated with a pharmaceutical diluent or carrier such as Water For Injection, PhysiQlogical saline and the like for im. injection. Also, the compounds may be aaninistered iv. by the drip method, for example, in a suitable solution such as a glucose solution. Prior u2 administration the compounds of the invention may be reared in suitable unit dosage forms in the dry powder state in vials. The following Examples further describe the present invention. The abbreviations which occur in the Examples have the following meanings HPLC refers to high performance liquid chromatography in the designation of the NMR signals, s singlet, m multiplet, d doublet, and q quartet. HPLC was carried out on a Waters and AssociatesModel 500 silica gel column. Nuclear magnetic resonance spectra were obtained on Jeol Model FX 90Q for 90MHz spectra.Trimethylsilane TMS was used as the standard in NMR spectra.Preparation of l cyanomethyl lH tetrazol 5 ylthiol A. Ethyl azidoacetate To a solution of t90 g. 4 moles of ethyl chloroacetate in 1500 ml. of acetonitrile were added 260 g. 4 moles of sodium azide, and the mixture was heated at the reflux temperature for 20 hours. After heating, the reaction mixture was poured into 1 liter of water with stirring for 1 2 hour. The organic phase was separated from the aqueous phase and evaporated in vacuo to dryness. The yellow residual oil was dissolved in 1200 ml. of diethyl ether and the solution was dried over magnesium sulfate. Evaporation of the diethyl ether in vacuo gave 391 g. 768 yield of ethyl azidoacetate. B. Ethyl 5 chloro lH tetrazol l ylacetate A mixture of 130 g. 1 mole of ethyl azidoacetate prepared as described in part A and 96 g. 1.56 mole of cyanogen chloride was heated at a temperature of 1250C. for 20 hours. After the reaction mixture had cooled, the reaction product mixture was dissolved in ethyl acetate, and the solution was filtered and evaporated in vacuo yielding a yellow crystalline mass of product. The yellow crystals were recrystallized from aqueous ethyl alcohol and gave 149 g. 78 yield of ethyl 5 chloro lH tetrazol lylacetate as pale yellow crystals melting at about 57 600C. C. Ethyl 5 thiol lH tetrazol l ylacetate A solution of 209 g. of the chlorotetrazole ester, prepared as described in part B above, and 250 g. of sodium hydrosulfide in 5 liters of ethyl alcohol was heated at the reflux temperature for 24 hours. After heating, the reaction mixture was acidified with concentrated hydrochloric acid, and the volume of the acidified mixture was reduced to 1 4 the original volume by evaporation in vacuo. The concentrate was extracted with ethyl acetate, the extract was dried and evaporated to dryness under reduced pressure.The residual product was recrystallized from toluenemethylene chloride hexane and gave 129 g. of the product melting at about 850C. to 880C. D. 5 Thiol lH tetrazol l ylacetamide ammonium salt A solution of 20 g. 0.106 mole of the tetrazolthiol ester, prepared as described above in part C, in 320 ml. of concentrated ammonium hydroxide and 200 ml. of ethyl alcohol containing 500 ml. of ammonium chloride was heated at the reflux temperature for about 12 hours. After heating, the reaction mixture was evaporated in vacuo, and the yellow crystalline residue obtained was recrystallized from hot ethyl alcohol to yield a first crop of 13.7 g. 73 yield of the product as white crystals melting at about 197 to about 1990C. after vacuum drying. A second crop of 1.4 g. of the product was obtained which melted at about 191 1930C. E. l Cyanomethyl lH tetrazol 5 thiol A suspension of 5.28 g. of the tetrazolamide ammonium salt, prepared as described above in part D, in 90 ml. of methylene chloride containing 14.4 ml. of pyridine was cooled. to a temperature of about OOC. To the suspension was added dropwise with stirring a solution of 4.6 g. 30 mmole of phosphorous oxychloride in 40 ml. of methylene chloride. After the addition was completed, the reaction mixture was heated at the reflux temperature for 30 minutes and was then cooled to room temperature with stirring. The reaction mixture had turned orange after heating and contained some precipitate. The reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness in vacuo and the residue dissolved in ethyl acetate water, 1 1, v v. The pH of the solution was adjusted to pH 2 with 20 aqueous hydrochloric acid.The acidified solution was then extracted twice with 75 ml. portions of ethyl acetate and the extracts combined. The extract was then washed with 5 hydro choloric acid, with brine, was dried over sodium sulfate and evaporated in vacuo. The brown oil obtained as a residue crystallized on standing. The crystals were vacuum dried at room temperature and yielded after drying 2.6 g. 61 yield of light brown product melting at about 113 114 C. The above reaction was repeated on a 10.6 g. batch of the tetrazol amide ammonium salt and 3.7 g. of the nitrile as off white crystals melting at about 116 1180C. were obtained. The following analytical data were obtained for te crystalline product. Elemental analysis calcualted for C3H3N5S Theory C, 25.53 H, 2.14 N, 49.62. Found C, 25.82 H, 2.40 N, 49.91. The mass spectrum of the crystalline product showed a molecular weight of 141 in agreement with the product. EXAMPLE 1 syn 7ss ta Methoximino a 2 amino 1 3 thiazol 4 yl acetamido 3 l cyanomethyl lH tetrazol 5 ylthiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid A solution of l cyanomethyl lH tetrazol 5thiol, 280 mg, was obtained in 12 ml of pH 7 buffer by adding 340 mg of sodium bicarbonate to a suspension of the compound in the buffer. After solution was obtained, 800 mg of syn 75 a methoximino 2 amino 1,3 thiazol 4 yl acetamido 3 acetoxymethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid were added to the solution which was then heated in 600C. forabout 3.5 hours. Heating was discontinued and the reaction mixture was stored in the refrigerator for about 12 hours.Analytical HPLC carried out on the reaction mixture showed the presence of about 60 starting material and 40 product. The starting material and product were separated by chromatography of the reaction mixture on reverse phase silica gel at 200 psi using the solvent system 12 acetonitrile 2 acetic acid 86 water, u v v. The starting material was collected in fraction 60 70 while the product was collected in fractions 103 120. The fractions containing the starting material were combined and evaporated to dryness to yield 180 mg of starting material. Fractions 103 120 were combined and freeze dried to yield 107 mg of the title compound as product. The following physical data were obtained on the above product. Elemental analysis for C17H1 05N10S3 Theory C, 38.05 H, 3.01 N, 26.10. Found C, 37.77 H, 3.00 N, 25.86. The infrared spectra of the product KBR showed an absorption maximum at 1770 cam 1 for the D lactam carbonyl. Field desorption mass spectrum M 537. NMR 90 MHz, DMSOd6, reference DMSO 2.65 ppm 3.84 m, C 2 methylene , 3.96 s, oxime methyl, syn , 4.50 m, C 31 methylene , 5.24 ppm d, C 6 H , 5.90 q, C 7 H , 4.92 s, cyanomethyl methylene , 6.87 s, thiazole H , 7.32 broad s, thiazole amino H , and 9.68 d, 7 amide H ppm, 6. EXAMPLE 2 7 D Mandelamido 3 1 cyanomethyl lH tetrazol 5 ylthiomethyl 3 cephem t carboxylic acid To a solution of l cyanomethyl lH tetrazole5 thiol in aqueous tetrahydrofuran containing excess sodium bicarbonate is added 75 D mandelamido cephalo sporanic acid and the solution is heated at a temperature of about 55 650C. for four hours. The reaction mixture is evaporated to dryness and the residue taken up in fresh water and ethyl acetate layered over the solution. With stirring the mixture is acidified with hydrochloric acid and the aqueous phase separated. The organic phase is washed with water and brine and dried over sodium sulfate. The dried solution is evaporated to dryness to provide the title compound. EXAMPLE 3 By following the reaction procedures and conditions described in Example 2, 7 2 thienylacetamido cephalosporanic acid cephalothin , is reacted with l cyanomethyl lH tetrazole 5 thiol to provide 7 2 thienylacetamido 3 l cyanomethyl lH tetrazol 5 ylthiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid. EXAMPLE 4 By following the procedures and under the conditions described in Example 2, 7 phenoxyacetamidocephalosporanic acid is reacted with l cyanomethyl lHtetrazole 5 thiol to provide 7 phenoxyacetamido 3 l cyanomethyl lX tetrazol ylthiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid. EXAMPLE 5 7 4 Chlorophenylmercaptoacetamido 3 1 cyanomethyl lH tetrazol 5 ylthiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid is prepared with 7 4 chlorophenyl mercaptoacetamido cephalosporanic acid and l cyano methyl lH tetrazole 5 thiol by following the procedures described by Example 2. EXAMPLE 6 7 Chloroacetamido 3 1 cyanomethyl lH tetrazol 5 ylthiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid is prepared by acylating 7 amino 3 1 cyanomethyl lH tetrazol 5 ylthiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid with chloroacetyl chloride in aqueous acetone in the presence of sodium carbonate.