# Process for producing vinyl acetate.

## Abstract
Producing vinyl acetate by reacting methyl acetate and or dimethyl ether with hydrogen and carbon monoxide in the presence of a catalyst comprising a a metal of Group VIII of the Periodic Table or a compound thereof and b a bromide and or iodide.

## Claims
We claim 1. A process for producing vinyl acetate which comprises reacting a starting material selected from the group consisting of methyl acetate and dimethyl ether, hydrogen and carbon monoxide in the presence of a catalyst comprising Ca at least one material selected from the group consisting of metals belonging to Group VIII of the PeriodicTable, compounds of the metals and mixtures thereof and b at least one halide selected from the group consisting of bromides, iodides and mixtures thereof. 2. The process as defined in Claim 1 wherein the component a constituting the catalyst is selected from the group consisting of palladium, rhodium, cobalt, nickel and compounds of these metals. or Claim 2 3. The process as defined in Claim 1 wherein the halide is selected from the group consisting of alkyl halides, acid halogenides, hydrogen halides and mixtures thereof. ,Claims. 1 to .3 Ine process as defined in any one orshereln said reaction is carried out in the presence of said catalyst and together with at least one promoter, said promoter being selected from the group consisting of nitrogen group compounds, metals having atomic weight of at least 6 and belonging to Groups Ia, Ila, III a, IVa, Va, Ib, IIb, Vb, VIb and VIIb of the Periodic Table and compounds of these metals. 5. The process as defined in Claim 4 wherein said promoter is a nitrogen group compound 6. The process as defined in Claim 4 wherein said promoter is selected from the group consisting of metals having atomic weight of at least 6 and belonging to Ia, IIa, lila, IVa, Va,Ib, lIb, Vb, VIb and VIIb of the Periodic Table and compounds of the metals. 7. The process as defined in Claim 5 wherein the nitrogen group compound is a heterocyclic compound. 8. The process as defined in Claim 6 wherein said promoter is selected from the group consisting of lithium, sodium, potassium, rubidium, cesium, magnesium, calcium, strontium, barium, aluminum, tin, antimony, bismuth, zinc, cadmium, copper, manganese, chromium and vanadium and compounds of these metals. 9. The process as defined in Claim 6 wherein said promoter is selected from the group consisting of lithium, potassium, barium and antimony and compounds of these metals. 6. 8 or 9 10. The process as defined in Claim Wherein said promoter is selected from the group consisting of oxides, hydroxides, halides, oxyhalides, hydrides, carbonyls, alkoxides, sulfates, sulfites, nitrates, nitrites, phosphates, phosphites, and organic carboxvlates of metals. of Claims 1 to 10 11. The process as defined in any one wherein said reaction is carried out in the presence of a solvent, said solvent being an organic material having a dielectric constant of not more than 18 at 250C. 12. The process as defined Claim 11 wherein the solvent is selected from the group consisting of aliphatic hydrocarbons, aromatic hydrocarbons, organic acid esters, ethers, ketones, alcohols, acid anhydrides and halogenated hydrocarbons. 13. The process as defined in Claim 12 wherein said solvent is selected from ethylidene diacetate or acetic anhydride. nf Claims 1 to 13 14. The process as defined in any one wherein said reaction is carried out while removing acetic acid from the reaction system bv distillation. of Claims 1 to 14 15. The process as defined in any one wherein said reaction is carried out while maintaining concentration of vinyl acetate at less than 25 wt . 0 Claims 1 to 15 16. The process as defined in any one I wherein said reaction is carried out while removing vinyl acetate from the reaction system by distillation. 0 claims 1 to ib 17. The process as defined in any one wherein said reaction is carried out while removing vinyl acetate and acetic acid from the reaction system by distillation. 18. A process for continuously producing vinyl acetate which comprises reacting a starting material selected from the group consisting of methyl acetate and dimethyl ether, hydrogen and carbon monoxide in the presence of a catalyst and optionally a solvent and or a promoter, characterized in that the catalyst comprises a at least one material selected from the group consisting of metals belonging to Group VIII of the Periodic Table, compounds of the metals and mixtures thereof and b at least one halide selected from the group consisting of bromides, iodides and mixtures thereof and an apparatus for the reaction comprises a reaction zone and one or more separating zone and the process comprises ir continuously charging said starting material into the reaction zone, ii continuously feeding carbon monoxide and hydrogen under pressure in the reaction zone, and Ciii removing part of the resulting vinyl acetate and acetic acid from the reaction system continuously.

## Description
PROCESS FOR PRODUCING VINYL ACETATE This invention relates to a process for producing vinyl acetate which comprises reaction of methyl acetate or dimethyl ether, carbon monoxide and hydrogen. Vinyl acetate has been produced from acetylene in the past. Recently vinyl acetate has also been produced from ethylene. In case of producing vinyl acetate from ethylene palladium chloride or palladium chloride and sodium acetate has been used as a catalyst. In addition, process for producing vinyl acetate which comprises producing ethylidene diacetate l,l diacetoxy ethane from acetaldehyde and acetic anhydride and causing thermal decomposition of the ethylidene diacetate to form vinyl acetate, and process for producing vinyl acetate and acetic acid from acetaldehyde and acetic anhydride directly have been proposed refer to Hydrocarbon Process, a4 11 287 1965 ,British Patent No. 1,112,555 and US Patent Nos. 2,021,69 2,425,389 and 2 860,159 . The present inventors carried out research to find a process for effectively synthesizing vinyl acetate from methyl acetate or dimethyl ether. As a result, we found a process for producing vinyl acetate by one stage by reacting methyl acetate or dimethyl ether, carbon monoxide and hydrogen. This invention relates to a process for producing vinyl acetate which comprises reaction of methyl acetate or dimethyl ether, carbon monoxide and hydrogen in the presence of a catalyst comprising a at least one material selected from the group consisting of metals belonging to Group VIII of the Periodic Table, compounds of the metals and mixtures thereof sometimes hereinunder referred to as component a and b at least one halide selected from the group consisting of bromides, iodides and mixtures thereof sometimes hereinunder referred to as component b . Figs. 1 2 show flow sheets of the apparatus for carrying out this invention. The mechanism of the reaction of methyl acetate or dimethyl ether,carbon monoxide and hydrogen in this invention is not perfectly clear. However, it is believed that the reaction is expressed by the following equations Cl WEen methyl acetate is used as a raw materialEMI2.1 2 When dimethyl ether is used as a raw materialEMI2.2 The above reaction proceeds in a good state when a catalyst comprising a at least one material selected from the group consisting of metals belonging to Group VIII of the Periodic.Table, compounds of the metals and mixtures thereof and b at least one halide selected from the group consisting of bromides, iodides and mixtures thereof is used. The metals belonging to Group VIII of the PeriodicTable can be used in any form of zero valence to higher valence state. For example, they can be used as metal itself or Raney metals, or finely divided particles of the metals, or as metal compounds, such as carbonates, oxides, perioxides, hydroxides, nitrates, sulfates, phosphates, halides, cyanides, thiocyanides, sulfonates, C1 C5 alkoxides, such as methoxides and ethoxides, phenoxide, carboxylates derived from C1 C20 alkanoic acids, oxyhalides, hydrides, carbonyls, nitrites, sulfites, phosphites, acetylacetonates and sulfides of metals or metal compounds coordinated with ammonia, cyanide, amines or amino acids. The components a include, for example, metallic Pd, PdX2, PdX22H2O, PdX2 2NH3, Pd CN 2, Pd2H, Pd OH 2, Pd OH 22NH3, Pd NO3 2, Pd2O, PdO, PdO2, PdSO4 2H2O, Pd2S, Pd PPh3 2 C12, PdS,PdS2, Pd3 P04 21 Na2PdX4, Pd n C4H9 3P CO Cl2, K2PdX4, Li2PdX4, Pd OAc 2, Pd AcAc 2, PdX2 PhCN 2, Pd SCN 2, Pd NC 2, palladium benzene sulfonate, metallic Rh, RhX3, Rhx3.3H2O, Rh OH 3, RH NO3 3 2H2O, RhO, RhO2, RhO3, Rh2 SO4 3 6H2O, RhS, Rh AcO 2 2,Rh2 CO 3, Rh6 CO 16, RhCl PPh3 3, Phx CO 2 2, Rh AcAc 3,Rh SCK 3, Rh PPh3 2 CO Cl2, Rh OPh 3, metallic Ir, IrX3, IrX3 3H2O, IrO2, IrO22H2O, Ir203 3H20, IrS, Ir2 CO8 , metallicPt, H2PtX6, PtX2, PtX4 Pt OH 2, Pt OH 4, PtO2, PtO,Pt PPh3 2 SnCl3 2, Pt3O4, Pt CO X2, PtS, Pt2S3, Pt CK 2, metallic Ru, RuX2, RuX3, RuX4, Ru OH 3, RuO2, Ru203, Ru NO3 3 6H2O, Ru CO 2I2m Ru CO 12, metallic Os, OsX2, OsX3, Os CO 4X2,Os3 CO12 , Os CO 5, metallic Fe, FeS2, FeX2, Fe NO3 2 6H2O, FeSO4 5H2O, Fe H2PO2 3, FeSO3, FeS2O3 5H2Om Fe NO2 2, metallicNim niX2m NiX2 3H2O, NiO, Ni2O3m Ni CO 4, NiCO3, NiSO4, Nis,Ni CN 2, metallic Co, Co3O4, COX3, Co OAc 2 4H2O, CoCO3,CO2 SO4 3, CoSO4, wherein X is F, C1, Br or I Ph is phenyl group AcO is acetoxy group and AcAc is acetylacetonate group. The metal polymer complexes in which a metal belonging to Group VIII of the Periodic Table is bonded to for example, silica, polyvinyl chloride, or polystyrene divinylbenzene substrate crosslinked by phosphine, silyl, an amine, pyridine or sulfido bond can be used as component a . The metal polymer complexes are disclosed in CHEMTECH, 1973 Pages 560 566 and CHEMTECH, 1975 pages 117 122. Of these metals and metal compounds, palladium, rhodium, platinum, ruthenium, osmium, cobalt and nickel and compounds of the metals may be used palladium, rhodium, platinum, ruthenium, cobalt and nickel and compounds of the metals are preferable and palladium, rhodium, cobalt and nickel and compounds of the metals are more preferable and palladium, rhodium and compounds of the metals are most preferable. Of course, mixtures of metals belonging to Group VIII of thePeriodic Table or compounds of these metals can also be used as component a . Component a constituting the catalyst may be soluble in a reaction solution. In this case a catalytic reaction is effected in a homogeneous system. The component a may also be insoluble in the reaction solution or partially soluble in the solution. In this case the reaction is effected in a heterogeneous system. The heterogeneous system catalysts include, for example, a metal itself, compounds of the metals or a metal supported on a carrier. A metal can be supported on a carrier by coprecipitation, impregnation, blending, adsorption, and ion exchange and the like. One of the processes for supporting a metal on a carrier is as follows A carrier is impregnated with a solution of a metal belonging to Group VIII of the Periodic Table or a compound of the metal. The metal or the metal compound on the carrier is reduced with formalin, hydrogen, sodium formate, carbon monoxide, sodium borohydride, lithium aluminum hydride, or hydrazine, and then dried. Of course, the component a may be supported on a carrier by other methods. Examples of the carriers include carbon, graphite, bone black, alumina, silica, silica alumina, barium sulfate, natural or synthetic zeolite, spinel, magnesia adhered alumina, thoria, titanium oxide, zirconium oxide, thorium oxide, lanthanum oxide, cerium oxide, zinc oxide, tantalum, clay, diatomaceous earth, Celite trade name of product being commercially available from Johns Manville Co. , asbestos, pumice stone, bauxite, terra abla, natural and treated terra abla, such as Super Filtrol, silicon carbide, molecular sieves, ceramic honeycomb, boria, cements, alundum, corundum, brick, talc, gypsum and the like. Carbon, graphite, bone black, alumina, silica, silica alumina, barium sulfate, zeolite, spinel and magnesia adhered alumina are preferred. The carriers may be in the form of particles having uniform or ununiform size. The carriers may be in the form of molded articles, extruded articles, ceramic bars, balls, fragments, tiles and the like. Heterogeneous system catalysts are preferred to homogeneous system catalysts, because separation and purification of the product, or separation or recovery of the catalyst are easy in a heterogeneous system. Use of components b , is critical with components at. In general, iodides and or bromides may be added to the reaction medium in the form of an alkyl halide, such as methyl iodide, an acid halogenide, such as acetyl iodide or hydrogen halide, such as hydrogen iodide as component b . Materials which can convert to an alkyl halide, an acid halogenide or hydrogen halide can be used as a halide. Examples of the materials which convert to an alkyl halide, an acid halogenide or a hydrogen halide by reacting with components in the reaction medium include inorganic halides, such as alkali metal halides, such as lithium halides, sodium halides, or potassium halides alkaline earth metal halides, such as calcium halides or magnesium halides metal halides, such as aluminum halides, zinc halides, copper halides, lanthanum halides, or cerium halides or halogens, such as, bromine or iodine. Of halides, methyl bromide and methyl iodide are more preferable, from the viewpoint of corrosion resistance of reactor and separation of the reaction product from the reaction mixture and purification of the reaction product. The hydrocarbonylation reaction of methyl acetate or dimethyl ether of this invention sufficiently proceeds in the presence of the catalyst containing the above mentioned component a and the above mentioned component b . Promoters selected from the group consisting of compounds of nitrogen group elements, or metals or metal compounds may be used with the catalyst in order to increase reaction rate and to enhance selectivity to the object product. Preferable compounds of nitrogen group elements include organic compounds containing nitrogen, phosphorus, antimony or arsenic, ammonia or ammonium salts. Examples of the compounds are shown in the following.However, compounds which are not listed in the following may be used as a promoter. 1 trivalent compounds of nigrogen group elements A Compounds represented by the formulaEMI5.1 wherein M is N, P, Sb or As. a compounds wherein RÚm Rê and R may be the same or different, and are independently hydrogen, saturated alkyl having 1 10 carbon atoms, saturated cycloalkyl having 3 10 carbon atoms, or aryl having 6 10 carbon atoms.M is NThe compounds include, for example, ammonia, and amines, such as monomethyl amine, dimethyl amine, trimethyl amine, monoethylamine, diethyl amine, triethyl amine, dimethyl ethyl amine, tri n propyl amine, tri isopropyl amine, tri n butyl amine, tri tert. butyl amine, aniline, dimethyl aniline, diethyl aniline, dimethylbenzyl amine, toluidine, triphenyl amine, cyclohexyl amine and the like.M is PThe compounds include, for example, phosphines, such as tri n propyl phosphine, tri iso propyl phosphine, tri n butyl phosphine, tri tert. butyl phosphine, tricyclohexyl phosphine, triphenyl phosphine and the like.M is SbThe compounds include, for example, stibines, such as tri iso propyl stibine, ethyl di iso propyl stibine, triphenyl stibine, tri o tolyl stibine, phenyl diamyl stibine and the like.M is AsThe compounds include, for example, arsines, such as trimethyl arsine, triethyl arsine, tri iso propyl arsine, tri n propyl arsine, tricyclohexyl arsine, phenyl di iso propyl arsine, diphenyl arsine and the like. b wherein R1 is hydrogen, alkyl having 1 10 carbon atoms, cycloalkyl having 3 10 carbon atoms, or aryl and R2 and R3 are taken together and represents methylene or polymethylene having 2 5 carbon atoms the compounds include, for example, pyrrolidine, Nmethyl pyrrolidine, piperidine or N phenyl piperidine c wherein RÚ and Rê may be the same or different and independently represent hydrogen, alkyl having 1 10 carbon atoms, cycloalkyl having 3 10 carbon atoms, or aryl and having 6 10 carbon atoms and R3 is aliphatic saturated acyl, or R1 is hydrogen, alkyl having 1 10 carbon atoms, cycloalkyl having 3 10 carbon atoms or aryl having 6 10 carbon atoms, and Rê and R are taken together and represent lactam ring the compounds include, for example carboxylamides such as acetamide, N,N dimethylacetamide, acetanilide, N methyl N phenylacetamide, and lactams, such as N methyl pyrrolidinone d wherein at leastone of RÚ, Rê and R is carboxy methyl and the remainder is hydrogen, alkyl having 1 10 carbon atoms, cycloalkyl having 3 10 carbon atoms or aryl having 6 10 carbon atoms the compounds include, for example carboxylic acid derivatives, such as N,N dimethyl glycine, N,N diethyl glycine, imino diacetic acid, N methyl iminodiacetic acid, or nitrilo triacetic acid Organic compounds represented by the formula N C R wherein R represents an alkyl having 1 to 10 carbon atoms, a cycloalkyl having 3 10 carbon atoms or aryl the compounds include for example nitriles, such as acetonitrile, propionitrile, or benzonitrile. Organic nitrogen group compounds represented by the formulaEMI7.1 a wherein R4, R5, R6 and R7 may be the same or different and independently hydrogen, alkyl having 1 10 carbon atoms, cycloalkyl having 3 10 carbon atoms, or aryl and R is methylene group or polymethylene group having 2 10 carbon atoms, phenylene, or carbonyl group M1 and M 2 are N, P, Sb or As The compounds include, for example, ethylene bis diphenylphosphine , phenylene bis dimethylphosphine , bis diphenylarsino ethane, bis di iso propylarsinolhexane, bis diethylstibino pentane, N,N,N ,N tetramethyl ethylenediamine, N,N,N ,N tetraethylethylenediamine, N,N,N ,N tetra n propylethylenediamine, N,N,N ,N tetramethylmethylenediamine, N,N,N ,N tetramethyl urea, N methyl 2 pyrrodinone and triethylenediamine, b R4 and R6 may be the same or different and indepen dently represent hydrogen, alkyl having 1 10 carbon atoms, cycloalkyl having 3 10 carbon atoms or aryl and R5 and R7 are taken together and represent methylene or polymethylene having 2 5 carbon atoms and R8 is methylene or polymethylene having 2 5 carbon atoms the compounds include, for example, heterocyclic compounds, such as piperazine, N methyl piperazine, N ethyl piperazine, or 2 methyl N,N dimethylpiperazine. c other compounds include, for example, tris diethyl aminomethyl stibine, 2,5 dicarboxy piperazine, cyclohexane 1,2 diamine N,N,N ,N tetraacetic acid or salts thereof, tetramethylester thereof, ethylene diaminetetraacetic acid, or its salt or tetramethyl ester thereof, 1,4 azabicyclo 2,2,2 octane, methyl substituted, 1,4 diazabicyclo 2,2,2 octane, adiponitrile or N methyl morphol ine. II Hetero cyclic compounds include, for example, pyridines, such as pyridine a picoline, S picoliner y picoline, 2 ethylpyridine, 3 ethylpyridine, 4 ethylpyridine, 2 propylpyridine, 4 propylpyridine, 4 butylpyridine, 4 isobutylpyridine, 4 tert.butylpyridine, 2,6 lutidine, 2,4 lutidine, 2,5 lutidine, 3,4 lutidine, 3,5 lutidine, 2,4,6 collidine, 2 methyl 4ethylpyridine, 2 methyl 5 ethylpyridine, 3 methyl 4ethylpyridine, 3 ethyl 4 methylpyridine, 3,4 diethylpyridine, 3, 5 diethylpyridine, 2 methyl 5 butylpyridine, 4 pentylpyridine, 4 5 nonyl pyridine, 2,6 dipropylpyridine, 2 methyl 3 ethyl6 propylpyridine, 2,6 diethylpyridine, 2,6 dipropylpyridine, 2,6 dibutylpiridine, 2,6 di tert. butylpyridine, functional group containing pyridines, such as 2 cyanopyridine, 3cyanopyridine, 4 cyanopyridine, 2,6 dicyanopyridine, 3,5dicyanopyridine, 2 cyano 6 methylpyridine, 3 cyano 5 methylpyridine, picolinic amide, nicotinic amide, isonicotinic amide, picolinic acid, nicotinic acid, isonicotinic acid, dipicolinic acid, dinicotinic acid, cinchomethorinic acid, 5 butylpicolinic acid, alkyl esters. of nicotinic acid, 2 aminopyridine, 3 aminopyridine, 4 aminopyridine, 2,3 diaminopyridine, 2,5diaminopyridine, 2,6 diamindpyridine, 2,3,6 triaminopyridine, 2 amino 3 methylpyridine, 2 amino 4 methylpyridine, 2 amino5 methylpyridine, 2 amino 6 methylpyridine, 2 amino 4ethylpyridine, 2 amino 4 propylpyridine, 2 amino 4 5 nonyl pyridine, 2 amino 4,6 dimethylpyridine, 2,6 diamino 4methylpyridine, 2,2 dipyridylamine, 4 dimethylaminopyridine, 2 hydroxypyridine, 3 hydroxypyridine, 4 hydroxypyridine, 2,6dihydroxypyridine, 3 hydroxy 6 methylpyridine, 2 chloropyridine, 2,6 dichloropyridine, 4 chloropyridine, 2 amino5 chloropyridine, 2 amino 3,5 dichloropyridine, 2 methyl 3,5dichloro 6 methylpyridine, 2 amino 5 chloro 3 methyipyridine, 2 amino 3,5 dichloro 4 methylpyridine, 2 amino 3,5 dichloro4,6 dimethylpyridine, 4 amino 3,5 dichloropyridine, pyridineN oxide, B picoline N oxide, a picoline N oxide, y picolineN oxide, 2,6 lutidine N oxide, 3,5 lutidine N oxide, 4phenylpropylpyridine N oxide, 1,3 di 4 pyridyl propane diN oxide, 4 5 nonyl pyridine N oxide, 2 chloropyridine Noxide, 4 cyanopyridine N oxide, 2 pyridine methanol, 3pyridinemethanol, 4 pyridinemethanol, 2,6 pyridinemethanol, 2 pyridineethanol, 4 pyridineethanol, 3 picolyamine, 4picolyamine, 2 methylaminoethylpyridine, 4 al kylaminoethyl pyridines, 4 piperidinoethylpyridine, 4 4 pipecolinoethyl pyridine, and 4 morpholinoethylpyridine, pyridines containing heterocyclic or homocyclic group, such as 2 phenylpyridine, 4 phenylpyridine, 2 benzylpyridine, 4 benzylpyridine, 4 phenylpropylpyridine, 4,4 dipyridyl, 4,4 dimethyl 2,2 dipyridyl, 1,3 di 4 pyridyl propane, 1,2 di 4 pyridyll ethane, 1,2 di 4 pyridyl ethylene, 1,2,3 tri A pyridyl propane, 2,4,6 tri 4 pyridyl S triazine, 2,4 di 4 pyridyl 6 methylS triazine, and 2, 5 di Q4 pyridyl S tetrazine, alkenylpyridines or polymer pyridines, such as 2 vinylpyridine, 4 vinylpyridine, 2 vinyl 6 methylpyridine, 2 vinyl 5 ethylpyridine, 4 butenyl pyridine, pyridine, 4 vinylpyridine homopolymer, 2 vinylpyridine homopolmer, 2 vinylpyridine acrylonitrile copolymer, 4 vinylpyridine acrylonitrile copolymer, 4 vinylpyridine styrene copolymer, 4 vinylpyridine divinylbenzene copolymer, 2 vinylpyridine divinylbenzene. copolymer, and 4 vinylpyridine homopolymer N oxide pyrroles pyrrolines pyrinidines pyrazines pyrazoles pyrazolines pyridazines imidazoles l,l0 phenanthrolines, such as l,l0 phenanthroline 4 chloro 1 ,l0 phenanthroline, and 5 thiabentyl 1, 10 phenanthroline, quinolines, such as quinoline, 2 dimethylamino2 6 methoxy quinoline, 8 hydroxyquinoline and 2 carboxyquinoline. I II Pentavalent nitrogen group compounds The compounds include, for example ammonium acetate, ammonium propionate, and triphenylphosphineiminiumchloride. Of these nitrogen group compounds, ammonia, ammonium salts and organic compounds containing nitrogen atom or phosphorus atom are preferable organic compounds containing trivalent phosphorus atom or trivalent nitrogen atom are more preferable and phosphine compounds containing trivalent phosphorus atom and heterocyclic compounds containing trivalent nitrogen atom, such as pyridines are most preferable. Metals or metal compounds which can be used as promoters include, for example metals having atomic weight of at least 6 and belonging to Groups Ia, IIa, IIIa, IVa, Va, Ib, IIb,Vb, VIb and VIIb of the Periodic Table and compounds of these metals. Preferable metals or metal compounds include, for example, metals having atomic weight of less than 210 and belonging to said Groups and compounds of the metals. Metals belonging to said Groups include lithium, sodium, potassium, rubidium, cesium, magnesium, calcium, strontium, barium, aluminum, tin, antimony, bismuth, zinc, cadmium, copper, manganese, chromium and vanadium lithium, sodium, potassium, rubidium, cesium, magnesium, calcium, strontium, barium, aluminum, tin and antimony are preferable and lithium, potassium, rubidium, cesium, aluminum, barium and antimony are more preferable and lithium, potassium, barium and antimony are most preferable. The inorganic promoters may be used in form of element, for example finely divided particles of the metals or the inorganic promoters may be used in form of cations, for example organic or inorganic compounds of the metals. Typical compounds of the metals include, for example oxides, hydroxides, halides, such as chlorides, fluorides bromides or iodides, oxyhalides, hydrides, carbonyls, alkoxides, sulfates, sulfites, nitrates, nitrites, phosphates, phosphites, aliphatic, alicyclic and aromatic carboxylates, such as acetates, butyrates, decanates, laurates, stearates, benzoates of the metals. Halides, such as chlorides, fluorides, bromides and iodides and carboxylates, such as acetatesof the metals are more preferable. The inorganic promoters may be used for increasing selectivity to vinyl acetate.So, use of both nitrogen group compounds and inorganic promoters are particularly profitable. These promoters may be supported on a porous inorganic material with a component a supported on a porous inorganic material. It is preferred that promoter be supported on a porous inorganic material with a palladium metal. j amount of component a used in this invention varies with the type of the catalyst whether it is homogeneous or heterogeneous or in case of a heterogeneous catalyst, with the type of the catalyst bed whether it is fluidized or fixed .However, in general, the amount of the component a employed may be in the range of from 1 x 10 4 to 25 wt , preferably in the range of from 5 x 10 4 to 20 wt more preferably from 1 x 10 3 to 15 wt and most preferably from 2.5 x 10 3 to 10 wt on the basis of weight of a reaction solution in terms of metal. Amount of halides employed as component b may be in the range of from 10 3 to 15 mol, preferably 10 5 mol and preferably 10 1 3 mol per 1 liter of a reaction solution in terms of halogen atom. Amount of the promoter employed may be in the range of from 1 x 10 6 to 10 mol, preferably 1 x 10 4 to 5 mol and most preferably 1 x 10 3 to 2.5 mol per 1 liter of a reaction solution. In case of practising this invention, the reaction temperature is not critical. In general, the reaction temperature may be in the range of 20 5000C, preferably 80 3500C and most preferably 100 2500 C. The reaction pressure is kept high enough to keep the raw material sl, the solvent and the product in a liquid phase and to maintain appropriately partial pressure of hydrogen or carbon monoxide. The partial pressure of hydrogen or carbon monoxide may be in the range of 0.5 500 atm. preferably 1 400 atm. and more preferably 3 300 atm. However, partial pressure of hydrogen or carbon monoxide may be in the range of 0.05 1500 atm. Dimethyl ether and methyl acetate which are used as raw materials in this invention may be prepared by known methods. Fcr example, dimethyl ether may be produced by dehydration imerization reaction of methanol. The methyl acetate may be produced by esterification of methanol and acetic acid. In this reaction acetic acid may be produced by reacting methanol with carbon monoxide ref JaDan Patent Publication laid open Nos. 59211 1979, 63002 1979 and 66614 197 . Acetic acid which is formed as a by product in synthesis of vinyl acetate by the present invention ma be used for synthesis of methyl acetate. Methyl acetate may also be produced by reacting methanol with synthesis gas. Japanese Patent Publication for opposition No. 2525 1973, PatentPublication laid open Nos. 136110 1977 and 136111 1977 .Vinyl acetate is converted to polyvinyl acetate. Methyl acetate formed as a X product when the polyvinyl acetate is converted to polyvinyl alcohol may be used as a raw material. Methanol, dimethyl ether, acetic acid, acetaldehyde, dimethyl acetal and iodides, such as methyl iodide may be incorporated in the methyl acetate employed as a raw material of this invention. However, incorporation of these compounds in methyl acetate is permitted as long as an overall balance is obtained. Methyl acetate can be produced from acetic acid formed as a by prod,, t in production of PVA from vinyl acetate produced in the preset invention may be used as a starting material of the present Invention. Stoichimetric amounts of the raw material gas depend on which one of methyl acetate, dimethyl ether and mixture thereof is used. Therefore, stoichimetric amounts of carbon monoxide and hydrogen may vary from molar ratio of CO to H2 of 2 1 to molar ratio of CO to H2 of 4 1. It is not necessarily critical to use CO and H2 in stoichimetric amounts. In general, the molar ratio of CO to H2 may be in the range of from 1 100 to 100 1, preferably 1 50 to 50 1 and more preferably 1 10 to 10 1. However, it is preferable that carbon monoxide and hydrogen be used in an approximately stoichimetric amount.So, preferably, the ratio of carbon monoxide to hydrogen may be in the range of 0.5 1 to 5 1. In the practice of this invention, carbon monoxide and hydrogen may be introduced into the reaction system as separate streams. Synthesis gas comprising carbon monoxide and hydrogen may be introduced into the reaction system. The raw material gas composed of carbon monoxide and hydrogen does not need to be highly pure and may contain carbon dioxide, methane, nitrogen, and rare gases. Extremely low concentration of either of carbon monoxide or hydrogen in the mixed gas is not desirable, because the reaction pressure must rise when using such gas. In general, water may be necessarily incorporated into the reaction system. However, since commerically available raw material gas and methyl acetate or dimethyl ether contains small amount of water, raw material gas and methyl acetate or dimethyl ether containing water of such low concentration are permitted in this invention. The present of water of more than 10 mol 9 on the basis of weight of a reaction solution is not preferable in this process, because such large amount of water causes to decompose the starting materials and the products. In general, water content less than 5 mol is preferable, and water content less than 3 mol is more preferable. When raw materials contains large amount of water, they should be dried before introducing them into the reaction system. Since methyl acetate or dimethyl ether as a starting material , vinyl acetate object product or acetic anhydride or ethylidene diacetate intermediate serves as a solvent for the reaction of this invention, another solvent is not necessarily used. Particularly, ethylidene diacetate and acetic anhydride are excellent solvents in this invention. However, use of proper another solvent increases selectivity to vinyl acetate abject product . Solvents which are usable for such purpose have dielectric constants of less than 18 at 250C. Organic solvents having dielectric constant of less than 15 at 250C are preferable organic solvents having dielectric constants of less than 10 at 250C are more preferable and organic solvents having dielectric constants of less than 8 at 250C are most preferable. In general, the organic solvents include aliphatic hydrocarbons having 5 20 carbon atoms, aromatic hydrocarbons having 6 20 carbon atoms, organic acid esters having 3 20 carbon atoms, ethers having 4 20 carbon atoms, ketones having 3 20 carbon atoms, alcohols having 4 20 carbon atoms and halogenated hydrocarbons having 1 20 carbon atoms. Of these solvents, saturated aliphatic hydrocarbons, aromatic hydrocarbons and organic acid esters are preferable. Examples of the organic solvents include aliphatic hydrocarbons, such as pentane, hexane, heptane, octane, nonane, decane, undecane, dodecane, tridecane, tetradecane, pentadecane, hexadecane, cyclopentane, cyclohexane, and their alkylated derivatives aromatic hydrocarbons, such as benzene, toluene, o , p and m xylenes, trimethyl benzenes, ethyl benzene, propyl benzene, naphthalene, biphenyl, diphenyl methane, and their alkylated derivatives organic acid esters, such as methyl acetate, ethyl acetate, propyl acetate, butyl acetate, amyl acetate, hexyl acetate, cyclohexyl acetate, octyl acetate, phenyl acetate, tolyl acetate, benzyl acetate, butyl formate, amyl formate, methyl propionate, ethyl propionate, methyl butyrate, ethyl butyrate, methyl benzoate, ethyl benzoate, methyl toluylate, dimethyl adipate, ethylene glycol diacetate, ethylidene diacetate, diethylene glycol diacetate, propylene glycol diacetate, a alerolactone, and 6 caprolactone ethers, such as diethyl ether, dipropyl ether, methyl butyl ether, dibutyl ether, butyl ethyl ether, diamyl ether, diphenyl ether, anisole, tetrahydrofuran, 1,4 dioxane, butyl propyl ether, benzyl ethyl ether, phenetole, and dibenzyl ether ketones, such as acetophenone, cyclohexanone, 3 pentanone and 4 methyl 2 pentanone alcohols, such as l pentanol, 3 methyl l butanol, 3 ethyl 2 propanol, 1 hexanol, l octanol, cyclohexanol, phenol and benzyl alcohol halogenated hydrocarbons, such as methyl iodide, dichloro methane, chloroform, carbon tetrachloride, chlorobenzene dichlorobenzenes and iodobenzene. Mixtures of the above solvents may also be used. Amount of the solvent employed is not critical. In general, amount of the solvent employed may be in the range ofO to 95 wt , preferably 2 to 90 wt, preferably 5 to 90 wt and most preferably 5 to 80 wt on the basis of weight of reaction solution. It is preferable to select kind and amount of the solvent so that dielectric constant of the reaction solution amounts to less than 19, preferably less than 18 and more preferably less than 17 at 250C. The present process may be carried out by batch, semicontinuous or continuous method. When a heterogeneous system catalyst is used, the reaction can be effected in a fluidized bed or a fixed bed. In the present invention, the reaction solution comprises the catalyst, methyl acetate or dimethyl ether starting material , acetic anhydride intermediate , ethylidene diacetate intermediate , vinyl acetate object product and by products containing acetic acid. In order to increase the yield of vinyl acetate, withdrawal of the resulting vinyl acetate from the reaction system is suitable. So, it is suitable to maintain concentration of vinyl acetate in the reaction system at less than 25 wt by continuously withdrawing for example distilling the resulting vinyl acetate from the reaction system it is preferable to maintain the concentration at less than 15 wt and it is more preferable to maintain the concentration at less than 10 wt . Particularly, it is most preferable to maintain the concentration at less than 5 wt . It should be avoided that acetic acid, which is formed as a by product, in large quantity remains in the reaction system. The reason is that acetic acid tends to prevent formation of the object product. So, in general, the concentration of acetic acid in the reaction system may be maintained at less than 50 wt , preferably less than 40 wt , more preferably less than 30 wt and most preferably less than 20 wt . Withdrawal of vinyl acetate and acetic acid from the reaction system may be carried out, for example, by distillation. For better understanding of this inVention, preferred embodiments of the invention are described hereunder by reference to the non limiting accompanying drawings. In Fig. 1, reaction zone 10 is composed of one or more pressure vessel of any type. Into the vessel are charged a suitable catalyst system typically consisting of methyl iodide and a metal belonging to Group VIII of the PeriodicTable or a compound of the metal and other liquid solution.Raw material gas containing hydrogen and carbon monoxide is fed under pressure at the bottom of zone 10 through line 11.Methyl acetate is fed into zone 10 through line 12. The reaction mixture, namely materials containing the reaction products, unreacted raw materials and intermediates are introduced from zone 10 through line 13 to separating zone 20 consisting of one or more distilling unit, for example flashing means and or fractionating columns. High boiling point components containing non volatile catalyst components separated in zone 20 are recycled into reaction zone 10 through line 21. Low boiling point components containing acetaldehyde, methyl iodide, methyl acetate, vinyl acetate and acetic acid separated in zone 20 are discharged through line 22 and fed into separating zone 30 consisting of one or more distilling units. Acetaldehyde, methyl iodide and methyl acetate separated in zone 30 are recycled into reaction zone 10 through line 33.Vinyl acetate and acetic acid separated in zone 30 are discharged together from lines 31 or 32, or are discharged separately from lines 31 and 32. In Fig. 2, reaction zone 100 is composed of one or more pressure vessels of any type. Into the vessel are charged a suitable catalyst system typically consisting of methyl iodide and a metal belonging to Group VIII of the Periodic Table or à compound of the metal and reaction solution. Raw material gas containing hydrogen and carbon monoxide is fed with recycling gas stream into bottom of zone 100 through line 101. Methyl acetate is fed into zone 100 through line 102. Reaction products and unreacted materials are withdrawn from zone 100 through line 105, and fed into separating zone 200 consisting of one or more distilling units, for example flashing means and or fractionating columns. Gas containing hydrogen and carbon monoxide separated in zone 200 are recycled into zone 100 through lines 108 and 109.As occasion demands, part of the gas is discharged outside through line 110. Acetaldehyde, methyl iodide, methyl acetate, vinyl acetate and acetic acid are gas liquid separated by stripping and or evaporation in zone 200. Part of acetic acid, part of acetic anhydride, and most of acetaldehyde, methyl iodide and methyl acetate are recycled into vessel 100 with gas containing hydrogen and carbon monoxide.Components containing as main components vinyl acetate and acetic acid gas liquid separated in zone 200 is discharged from zone 200 through line 107 and fed into separating zone 300. Low boiling point components comprising mainly methyl acetate and methyl iodide separated in zone 300 are recycled into zone 100 through line 304. High boiling point components comprising acetic anhydride and ethylidene diacetate are recycled from zone 300 to vessel 100 through line 304. Vinyl acetate object product and acetic acid by product are discharged together from lines 301 or 302, or discharged separately from lines 301 and 302.As occasion demands, in order to prevent accumulation of polymers formed as by products during the reaction and other high boiling point materials or in order to withdraw part of the catalyst, part of the reaction solution is discharged from zone 100 through line 104. The following examples are given as illustrative embodiments of the invention and should not be construed as limiting its scope. All parts and percents are on weight, unless otherwise specified.Example 1 Into an autoclave were charged 105 g of methyl acetate, 39 g of methyl iodide, 1.09 g of 2,6 lutidine and 4.32 g of palladium .5 supported on activated carbon being commercially available from Nippon Engelhardf. Mixed gas of carbon monoxide and hydrogen 2 1 by volume was fed under pressure into the 2 autoclave. The reaction was carried out at 1750C and 100 Kg cm G for 4 hours. After cooling the reaction mixture, analysis showed that it contained 0.351 g of vinyl acetate, 7.68 g of ethylidene diacetate, P.2Q3 g of acetic anhydride, 5.22 g of acetaldehyde and 0.265 g of ethyl acetate with considerable amount of acetic acid.Examples 2 15 The procedures of Example 1 were repeated by using starting materials, catalysts, promoters and solvents and the reaction conditions. The results are shown in Table 1 Table 1 EMI19.1 SEP Ex. SEP 2 SEP Ex. SEP 3 SEP Ex. SEP 4 tb Methyl SEP acetate SEP g SEP 105 SEP 105 SEP 120 tb SEP methyl SEP iodide SEP methyl SEP iodide tb SEP 39 SEP g , SEP Pd SEP 5 SEP 30 SEP g , SEP palladium tb Catalyst SEP supported SEP on SEP Same SEP as SEP the SEP left SEP chloride SEP 0.451 SEP g tb SEP activated SEP carbon tb SEP 4.32g tb Promoter SEP 2,6 lutidine SEP 1.09 SEP g SEP potassium SEP sulfate SEP tri n butyl SEP lithium SEP acetate SEP 4.5 SEP g SEP 4.5 SEP g , SEP 2,6 SEP phosphine SEP 1.28 SEP g tb SEP lutidine SEP 1.09 SEP g tb Ratio SEP of SEP CO SEP to SEP H2 SEP by SEP volume SEP 2 1 SEP 2 1 SEP 2 1 tb Solvent tb SEP Temperature SEP C SEP 175 SEP 175 SEP 180 tb Reaction tb Condition SEP Pressure SEP Kg cmêG SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP Time SEP 4 SEP hours SEP 4 SEP hours SEP 3 SEP hours tb SEP Vinyl SEP acetate SEP g SEP 0.562 SEP 0.372 SEP 0.211 tb Components tb in SEP reac SEP EDA SEP g SEP 6.37 SEP 0.781 SEP 6.30 tb tion SEP Acetic SEP anhydride SEP g SEP 0.250 SEP 3.76 SEP 4.15 tb SEP Acetaldehyde SEP g SEP 4.80 SEP 2.39 tb SEP Acetic SEP acid SEP considerable tb SEP amount SEP same SEP as SEP the SEP left SEP same SEP as SEP the SEP left tb SEP Ethyl SEP acetate SEP g SEP 0.196 tb ethylidene diacetate Nippon Engelhard Table 1 Continued EMI20.1 Ex. SEP 5 SEP Ex. SEP 6 SEP Ex. SEP 7 SEP Ex. SEP 8 tb 105 SEP 120 SEP 120 SEP 105 SEP 120 SEP 120 SEP 105 tb methyl SEP iodide SEP 39 SEP g SEP CH3I SEP 30 SEP g , SEP rhodium SEP CH3I SEP 30 SEP g , SEP rhodium SEP CH3I SEP 39 SEP g tb palladium SEP chloride SEP acetate SEP 0.611 SEP g , SEP Pd SEP chloride SEP 1.92 SEP g , SEP Pd SEP rhodium SEP iodide tb 0.451g SEP 5 SEP supported SEP on SEP 5 SEP supported SEP on SEP 2.11 SEP g tb SEP activated SEP carbon SEP activated SEP carbon tb SEP 4.5 SEP g SEP 4.5 SEP g tb tri n butilphosphine SEP lithium SEP acetate SEP 2.88 SEP g SEP triphenyl SEP phosphine SEP 2,6 lutidine tb 1.28 SEP g , SEP KCL SEP 4.5 SEP g SEP 9.56 SEP g SEP 12 SEP g , SEP LiI tb SEP 4.5 SEP g tb 2 1 SEP 2 1 SEP 2 1 SEP 2 1 tb 175 SEP 175 SEP 175 SEP 175 tb 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb 3 SEP hours SEP 160 SEP min. SEP 45 SEP min. SEP 3 SEP hours tb 0.226 SEP 0.520 SEP 0.147 SEP 3.03 tb 0.733 SEP 73.7 SEP 53.1 SEP 46.7 tb 5.56 SEP 25.7 SEP 10.2 SEP 17.3 tb SEP 0.544 tb considerable SEP same SEP as SEP the SEP left SEP same SEP as SEP the SEP left SEP same SEP as SEP the SEP left tb amount tb SEP 0.257 tb Table 1 Continued EMI21.1 Ex. SEP 9 SEP Ex. SEP 10 SEP Ex.11 tb 105 SEP 112 SEP 105 tb CH3I SEP 39 SEP g SEP CH3I SEP 37.7 SEP g SEP CH3I SEP 39 SEP g tb rhodium SEP iodide SEP 2.11 SEP g SEP rhodium SEP chloride SEP 1.85 SEP g SEP rhodium SEP iodide SEP 2.11 SEP g tb 2.6 lutidine SEP 1.09 SEP g , SEP triphenyl SEP phosphine SEP 2.4 lutidine SEP 8.0 SEP g tb LiBr SEP 4.5 SEP g SEP 9.32 SEP g , SEP BaI2 SEP 4.5 SEP g SEP antimony SEP iodide SEP 4.5 SEP g tb 2 1 SEP 2 1 SEP 2 1 tb 175 SEP 150 SEP 175 tb 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb 3 SEP hours SEP 3 SEP hours SEP 3 SEP hours tb 0.976 SEP 2.91 SEP 2.14 tb 46.2 SEP 53.7 SEP 46.2 tb 17.9 SEP 18.6 SEP 19.9 tb considerable SEP amount SEP same SEP as SEP the SEP left SEP same SEP as SEP the SEP left tb Table 1 Continued EMI22.1 Ex.12 SEP Ex.13 SEP Ex.14 tb 105 SEP 120 SEP 100 tb CH3I SEP 39 SEP g SEP CH3I SEP 32.4 SEP g SEP CH3I SEP 30 SEP g tb rhodium SEP iodide SEP 2.11 SEP g SEP Ni SEP powder SEP 1.91 SEP g SEP palladium SEP acetate SEP 0.316 SEP g tb SEP Pd SEP 5 SEP supported SEP on SEP Pd SEP 5 SEP supported SEP on tb SEP activated SEP carbon SEP 4.80 SEP g SEP activated SEP carbon SEP 1.5 SEP g tb 2,6 lutidine SEP 12 SEP g SEP 2,4 butadiene SEP 10.5 SEP g SEP 2,6 lutidine SEP 1.13 SEP g tb tin SEP IV SEP iodide SEP 4,5 SEP g tb 2 1 SEP 2 1 SEP 2 1 tb SEP acetic SEP anhydride SEP 20 SEP g tb 175 SEP 175 SEP 175 tb 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb 3 SEP hours SEP 3 SEP hours SEP 3 SEP hours tb 1.51 SEP 0.480 SEP 0.501 tb 38.7 SEP 7.56 SEP 7.54 tb 14.9 SEP 29.8 SEP 4.72 tb SEP 5.37 tb considerable SEP amount SEP same SEP as SEP the SEP left SEP same SEP as SEP the SEP left tb SEP 0.0911 tb Table 1 Continued Ex.15 30CH3I 30 g Pd 5 supported on an activated carbon 4.5 g 2,6 lutidine 1.13 g 2 1 ethylidene diacetate 90 g 175 100 4 hours 2.91 93.8 Example 16 Into an autoclave were charged 120 g of methyl acetate, 30 g of methyl iodide, 3.40 g of. 2,6 lutidine, 0.949 g of palladium acetate and 4.5 g of palladium 5 supported on activated carbon Nippon Engelhard . Mixed gas of carbon monoxide and hydrogen 9 1 by volume was fed under pressure 2 to pressure of 100 Kg cm . The temperature was raised to 175 C. The reaction was carried out at 175 C for 4 hours while maintaining the pressure at 100 Kg cmê by countinuously feeding mixed gas of CO H2 2 1 by volume into the autoclave. The reaction mixture contained 0.238 g of vinyl acetate, 3.35 g of ethylidene diacetate, 2.11 g of acetic anhydride and 1.86 g of acetaldehyde with considerable amount of acetic acid.Example 17 Into an autoclave were charged .88.8 g of methyl acetate, 72.0 g of ethylidene diacetate, 41.7 g of methyl iodide, 4.56 g of 2,4 lutidine, 1.25 g of nickel powder and 7.92 g of lithium acetate. Air in the autoclave was purged with carbon monoxide.The temperature was raised to 1800C with stirring. Carbon 2 monoxide under pressure of 55 Kg cm and hydrogen under pressure 2 of 10 Kg cm were fed into the autoclave so that total pressure 2 of the autoclave amounted to 80 Xg cm . Then the reaction was carried out at that temperature for 5 hours. During the reaction the pressure of the autoclave was maintained at 2 80 Kg cm by continuously feeding mixed gas of CO H2 2 1 by volume into the autoclave. After cooling the reaction mixture, analysis showed that it contained 4.90 g of vinyl acetate and 46.3 g of acetic anhydride with considerable amount of acetic acid and ethylidene diacetate. Example 18 Into an autoclave 111 g of methyl acetate, 41.7 g of methyl iodide, 4.56 g of 2,4 lutidine, 1.25 g of nickel powder, 1.00 g of cobalt octacarbonyl and 7.92 g of lithium acetate.Air in the autoclave was purged with mixed gas of CO H2 2 1 by volume . The temperature was raised to 1800C. The mixed 2 gas was fed under pressure to pressure of 100 Kg cm . The reaction was carried out at that temperature for 3 hours while maintaining the pressure at 10Q Kg cm2 by continuously feeding the mixed gas into the autoclave. After cooling the reaction mixture, analysis showed that it contained 0.32 g of vinyl acetate, 1.75 g of ethylidene diacetate and 32.1 g of acetic anhydride with considerable amount of acetic acid.Example 19 Into an autoclave were charged 30 g of methyl iodide, 90 g of ethylidene diacetate, 1.13 g of 2,6 lutidine and 4.5 g of palladium 5 supported on activated carbon. After air in the autoclave was purged with nitrogen, 30 g of dimethyl ether was charged into the autocalve. Mixed gas of CO H2 2 1 by volume was fed under pressure so pressure of the autoclave amounted to 200 Kg cm and the reaction was carried out at 1750C for 8 hours. The reaction mixture contained 0.15 g of vinyl acetate and 91.8 g of ethylidene diacetate.Example 20 This example was carried out by using the apparatus as shown in Fig. 1. Into pressure zone 10 was charged a mixture of 46.4 of methyl acetate, 11.1 of methyl iodide, 39.5 of ethylidene diacetate, 1.58 of 2,6 lutidine, 0.59t of palladium acetate and 0.838 of palladium 5 supported on activated carbon, in a determined amount. Air in zone 10 was purged with mixed gas of carbon monoxide and hydrogen 2 1 by volume .The temperature of zone 10 was raiced to 175 C. The mixed gas was fed from bottom of zone under pressure to 100 Kg cmêG through line 11. The mixture was stirred for 4.3 hours while maintaining the presure of 100 Kg cmê by feeding the mixed gas into zone 10. Thereafter, movement of the solution started so that average residence time of the solution amounted to 3 hours, and at the same time methyl acetate was fed into zone 10 from line 12 at a rate of 9.01 g hour, and the mixed gas was continuously fed into zone 10 through line 11 so as to maintain the pressure at 100 Kg cmê G. The reaction mixture withdrawn from line 13 was fed into separating zone 20 and flash distilled there to obtain low boiling point components containing 5.018 of vinyl acetate. The low boiling point components were fed into separating zone 30 through line 22.High boiling point components and the catalyst separated in zone 20 were recycled into zone 10 through line 21. The components charged into zone 30 were separated there. Low boiling point components mainly composed of methyl acetate and methyl iodide were recycled into zone 10 through line 33, and high boiling point components mainly composed of acetic anhydride and ethylidene diacetate were recycled into zone 10 through line 34. Vinyl acetate object product was discharged from zone 30 through line 32 at rate of 4.92 g hour and acetic acid was discharged from zone 30 through 31 at rate of 7.29 g hour.Example 21 This example was carried out by using the apparatus as shown in Fig. 2. Into pressure zone 100 was charged a mixture of 46.4 of methyl acetate, 11.1 of methyl iodide, 39.5 of ethylidene diacetate, 1.58 of 2,6 lutidine, 0.59 of palladium acetate and 0.83 of palladium 5 supported on activated carbon, in a determined amount. Air in zone 10 was purged with mixed gas of carbon monoxide and hydrogen 2 1 by volume .The temperature of zone 100 was raised to 175 C. The mixed gas was fed from bottom of zone 100 under pressure to 100 Kg cmêG through line 101. The mixture was stirred for 4.3 hours while maintaining the pressure of 100 Kg cmêG by feeding the mixed gas into zone 100. Thereafter movement of the solution started so that average residence time of the solution amounted to 3 hours, and at the same time methyl acetate was fed into zone 100 from line 102 at a rate of 9.39 g hour, and the mixed gas was continuously fed into zone 100 so as to maintain the pressure at 100 Kg cmêG. Gas was circulated through zone 100, line 105, separating zone 200 including distilling units, and lines 108, 109 and 103. Components containing 6.478 of vinyl acetate condensed at 1000C in zone 200 were fed into separating zone 300 including fractionating means through line 107. Low boiling point components mainly composed of methyl acetate and methyl iodide, which were separated in zone 300 were recycled into zone 100 through line 3Q3, and high boiling point components mainly composed of acetic anhydride and ethylidene diacetate, which were separated in zone 300 were recycled into zone 100 through line 304. Vinyl acetate object product was discharged from zone 300 through line 302 at a rate of 5.22 g hour.Acetic acid was discharged from zone 300 through line 301 at a rate of 7.52 g hour.