# BINOCULAR INDIRECT OPHTHALMOSCOPE WITH CAMERA

## Abstract
An improved portable ophthalmoscope of the binocular indirect type wherein the ophthalmoscope has a camera mounted thereon for photographing the fundus of the eye of a patient when the ophthalmoscope is worn on the head of a clinician. The ophthalmoscope has an adjustable head assembly providing a support for an observation housing having reflecting surfaces permitting a stereo scopic view of the fundus of the patient s eye. The camera is mounted at the front of the head assembly near the observation housing and the camera can be actuated with a foot switch or other actuator. A light source is also carried by the head assembly and has means for directing light into the patient s eye. Light reflected from the fundus is received in the observation housing. In several embodiments of the invention, the camera is mounted above the observation housing and receives a part of the reflected light from the fundus while the remainder of the reflected light can be simultaneously received for binocular viewing by the clinician. In another embodiment, the camera is at one side of the observation housing and receives light rays reflected laterally to the one side. Side mirrors in the observation housing permit binocu lar viewing forwardly of the ophthalmoscope, one of the side mirrors being half silvered or pivotally mounted in the housing to permit reflected light to enter the camera at the same time as or alternately with binocular viewing of the eye of the patient.