# 2 Cyclopropane carboxamido 2 alkenoic acids, their esters and salts, and antibacterial compositions comprising the same and a thienamycin type compound.

## Abstract
ω 2 Amino 2 carboxyethylthio 2 cyclopropane carboxamido 2 alkenoic acids, their esters and salts of the formula

## Claims
WHAT WE CLAIMED IS 1. Compounds of the general formulaEMI22.1 in the Z configuration wherein R is 2,2 dimethyl cyclopropyl R1 is hydrogen, loweralkyl of 1 6 carbon atoms, dialkylaminoalkyl with 1 6 carbon atoms in each alkyl group, or a pharmaceutically acceptable cation R3 is an alkylene chain of 3 7 carbon atoms, having a terminal substituent which is 2 amino 2 carboxy ethylthio or 1 phosphono ethylamino. 2. A compound of Claim 1 which is Z 8 L 2 amino 2 carboxyethylthio 2 2, 2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxamido 2 octenoic acid. 3. A compound of Claim 1 which is Z 7 L 2 amino 2 carboxyethylthio 2 2, 2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxamido 2 heptenoic acid. 4. A compound of Claim 1 which is Z 2 2,2 dimethyl cyclopropanecarboxamido 8 IT phosphono ethyl amino7 2 octenoic acid. 5. The compound of claims 2, 3 or 4 in the sodium, potassium, calcium or magnesium salt form. 6. An antibacterial composition comprising a thienamycin type compound and a compound according to anyone of Claims 1 to 5. 7. The antibacterial composition of Claim 6 comprising Z 7 L 2 amino 2 carboxyethylthio 2 2,2 dimethyl cyclopropanecarboxamido 2 heptenoic acid or its sodium, potassium, magnesium or calcium salt and N formimidoyl thienamycin. Claims for Austria 1. Process for preparing compounds of the general formulaEMI24.1 in the Z configuration, wherein R2 is 2,2 dimethylcyclopropyl R1 is hydrogen, loweralkyl of 1 6 carbon atoms, dialkylaminoalkyl with 1 6 carbon atoms in each alkyl group, or a pharmaceutically acceptable cation R3 is an alkylene chain of 3 7 carbon atoms, having a terminal substituent which is 2 amino 2carboxyethylthioor 1 phosphono ethylamino, which comprises either a condensing directly an D bromo or 0 chloro alkenoic acid compound of the general formulaEMI24.2 wherein n is from 3 7 and cysteine . HCl or 1 amino ethane phosphoric acid or b reacting a chloro keto ester intermediateEMI24.3 with the desired amideEMI24.4 hydrolyzing the resulting intermediate to the acid and displacing the chloro group by reaction with cysteine or 1 amino ethane phosphoric acid. 2. Process according to Claim 1 for preparing Z 8 L 2 amino 2 carboxyethylthio 2 2,2 dimethyl cyclopropanecarboxamido 2 octenoic acid. 3. Process according to Claim 1 for preparing Z 7 L 2 amino 2 carboxyethylthio 2 2 ,2 dimethyl cyclopropanecarboxamido 2 heptenoic acid. 4. Process according to Claim 1 for preparing Z 2 2, 2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 8 IT phosphono ethylamino7 2 octenoic acid. 5. Process according to Claim 1 for preparing the compounds of Claims 2, 3 or 4 in the sodium, potassium, calcium or magnesium salt form.

## Description
Z cj 2 AMINO 2 CARBOXYETHYLTHIO 2 CYCLOPROPANE CARBOXAMIDO 2 ALKENOIC ACIDS, THEIR ESTERS AND SALTSAND ANTIBACTERIAL COMPOSITIONS COMPRISING THE SMITE AND A THIENAMYCIN TYPE COMPOUNDINTRODUCTION A new class of fused ring B lactam antibiotics, including thienamycin and its semi synthetic derivtives, epithienamycins, and olivanic acids, has recently been described. These compounds which will be defined more extensively below, are hereinafter referred to as the thienamycin class of compounds .These compounds have a high level of antibacterial activity, but are subject to extensive metabolism by mammalian species. The kidney was identified as the primary site of metabolism, and an enzyme was purified from renal extracts which catalyzed the inactivation of thienamycin by hydrolysis of the ss lactam. By such criteria as cytological localization, substrate specificity and susceptibility to enzyme inhibitors, this enzyme is very similar if not identical to a widely studied renal dipeptidase E.C.3.4.13.11 , also referred to in the literature as dehydropeptidase I . However, the lactamase activity is exhibited only toward the thienamcin class of compounds. Indeed, there exists no precedent example of the mammalian metabolism via R lacta cleavage of any representative of the classical fr lactam antibiotics, the penicillins and cephclo sporins. DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION The chemical substance which selectively inhibits the metabolism of the dipeptidase E.C.3.4.13.11 , also called dipeptidase inhibitors , are compounds of the general formulaEMI2.1 in the Z configuration wherein R2 is 2,2 dimethylcyclopropyl R1 is hydrogen, loweralkyl of 1 6 carbon atoms, dialkylaminoalkyl with 1 6 carbon atoms in each alkyl group, or a pharmaceutically acceptable cation R3 is an alkylene chain of 3 7 carbon atoms, having a terminal substituent which is 2 amino 2 carboxyethylthio or 1 phosphono ethylamino. Especially preferred are Z 8 L 2 amino 2 carboxyethylthio 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 2 octenoic acid and Z 7 L 2 amino 2 carboxyethylthio 2 2 ,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 2 heptenoic acid, their lower alkyl and dialkylaminoalkylesters and their salts with pharmaceutically acceptable bases. The Z configuration J.E. Blackwood et al., J. Am Cheir. Soc., 90, p. 509 1968 is assigned to the above compounds on the basis of their NMR spectra by analogy with the work of A. Srinavasan et al. Tetrahedron Lett., 891 1976 7. Various pharmaceutically acceptable derivatives such as alkali and alkaline earth metal, ammonium, or amine salts, can be employed. Salts such as the sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, or tetramethylammonium salts are suitable. UTILITY OF THE INVENTION As noted above, the compounds of this invention are dipeptidase E.C.3.4.13.11 inhibitors, and can be used in combination with antibacterical compounds which are subject to renal degradation. The group of antibiotics of present primary importance for use in combination with the compounds of this invention are the thienamycin class of compounds . The term thienamycin class of compounds is used to identify any of a number of naturally occurring, semi synthetic, or synthetic derivatives or analog compounds having a common fused ring 6 lactam nucleus. These compounds can be generically classed as 6 and optionally 2 substituted pen 2 em 3 carboxylic acids and l carbadethia pen2 em 3 carboxylic acids or l azabicyclo 3.2.0 hept2 ene 7 one 2 carboxylic acids. Specific comppunds particularly useful in this invention are represented structurally in the following formula II EMI3.1 wherein X can be CH2 or S R can.be.hydrogen 5 5. S CH2CH2NHR , wherein R is hydrogen, acetyl, formimidoyl, acetimidoyl S O C CHNHCOCH3 and S CH CHNHCOCH3 and R isEMI3.2 wherein R7 is hydrogen, hydroxy or sulfonyloxy, or R6 is H. All possible stereoisomeric forms are included within the above structural definition. All of these compounds within Formula II are described in the literature. When X is CH2, andR4 is SCH2CH2NH2, and R6 is CH OH CH3, the compound is known as thienamycin, an antibiotic Produced by fermentation of S. cattleya, deposited as NRRL 8057 at Northern Regional Research Laboratories, U.S.Department of Agriculture, Peoria, Illinois, U.S.A., on November 18, 1974 described in U.S. Patent 3,950,357, issued April 13, 1976. The fermentation product N acetyl thienamycin R6 is CH OH CH3, and R5 is acetyl , also called 924A, is described in BelgianPatent No. 848,346, issued May 16, 1977. TheN imidoyl derivatives are covered in Belgian PatentNo. 848,545, issued May 20, 1977. The unsaturated side chain containing compound, also called N acetyldehydrothienamycin or 924A5 is a fermentation product of S. cattleya, NRRL 8057, described inBelgian Patent No. 866,035, issued October 17, 1978.Epimeric forms of N acetyl thienemycin, also called 890A, and 890A3, as well as the desacetyl 890A, and desacetyl 890A3 are disclosed, respectively in published French Appln. 763,887, filed November 19, 1976, and Belgian Patent 848,349, issued May 16, 1977.Epimeric forms of the unsaturated thienamycin, also called 890A2 and 890A5,are described in publishedFrench of April 28, 1976. The 6 sulfonyloxycontaining N acetyl compounds, also called 890at or 890A10, are disclosed respectively, in publishedFrench Appln. 7,734,456, filed November 16, 1977, and published French Appln. No. 7,734,457, filedNovember 16, 1977. Desacetyl analogues of 890A9 and 890ago are respectively disclosed in DE OS 28 05 701,French Appln. 7,803,666, filed February 9, 1978,DE OS 28 05 724, and also in French Appln. 7,803,667, filed February 9, 1978. Some of these latter compounds in the 890at and 890ago series are also known as derivatives of olivanic acid see Corbett et al., Chem. Soc. Chem.Commun. 1977, No. 24, pp. 953 54 .Compounds of the Formula II above when R4 is hydrogen, also called descysteaminyl thienamycins, are disclosed in Belgian Patent 867,227, issued November 20, 1978. When R6 is hydrogen, and X is CH2, these compounds are disclosed in German Off. 2,751,624.1, filedNovember 18, 1977. A thienamycin type antibiotic in which R is SCH2CH2NHAc and R6 is C2H5, has been named PS 5 and is reported by K. Okaimura et al., J. Antibiotics 31 p. 480 1978 , see also Belgian Patent 865,578. The compounds in which X is S, also called penems , are described by R.B. Woodward in Recent Advances in the Chemistry of ss Lactam Antibiotics , J. Elks Ed , The Chemical Society,London, 1977, p. 167 R.B. Woodward, Abstracts ofUppsala University 500 Years Symposium on CurrentTopics in Drug Research, Uppsala, Sweden, October 1921, 1977. Acta. Pharm. Suecica, Vol. 14, Supplement, p. 23, and U.S. Patent 4,070,477, issuedJanuary 24, 1478, Particularly preferred members within the thienamycin class of compounds are the N formimidoyl and N acetamidoyl derivatives of thienamycin. The crystalline form of N formimidoyl thienamycin, which has recently been described, is also useful in the practice of this invention. An example illustrating a preferred way of making this compound follows ILLUSTRATIVE EXAMPtE N Formimidoyl thienamycin, NFT crystallineStep A. Benzylformimidate hswdrochloride A 3 1. three necked flask fitted with an addition funnel, overhead stirrer, and a reflux condenser, was charged with a mixture of benzyl alcohol 125 g., 1.15 mol formamide 51 g., 1.12 mol and anhydrous ether 1200 ml. . The mixture was stirred vigorously at room temperature 20 250C under a nitrogen atmosphere and benzoyl chloride 157 g., 1.12 mol in 50 ml. of anhydrous ether was added dropwise using the addition funnel. The addition required approximately 50 minutes. The reaction mixture was stirred an additional 60 minutes at room temperature. The ether was removed by decantation and 300 ml. of acetic anhydride in 500 ml. of anhydrous ether was added. The mixture was stirred 30 minutes at room temperature.The precipitate was allowed to settle and the etheracetic anhydride was again removed by decantation.The solid was collected by filtration, washed with 500 ml. of ether and dried in vacuo over KOH at 250C for 2 hrs. to give 130 g. 67 of benzylformimidate hydrochloride as a white solid. The product was assayed by NMR g DMSO 5.7 s, 2H, CH2 , 7.5 s, SH, 0 , 9.0 s, 1H, HC N .The product is thermally unstable. It decomposes to formamide and benzyl chloride at OOC anc above.However, no appreciable decor. osition was detected on storage at 200C for 2 months. Step B. Derivatization of Thienamycin Thienamycin in the form of a 6 1. aqueous solution, pH 6.5, concentrate from the fermentation broth, containing 28 g. thienamycin was placed in a large beaker 12 i and cooled to OOC. The beaker was equipped with a pH meter and an efficient high speed stirrer. The pH was raised to 8.5 by the careful addition of 3N KOH KOH was added dropwise via syringe to the stirred solution . The solution was treated with 6 equivalents of solid benzyl formimidate hydrochloride r l00 g. in portions while maintaining the pH at 8.5 0.3 by the addition of 3N KOH 200 ml. using a syringe. The addition required 3 5 min.The reaction mixture was stirred for 6 min. at 0 C and then assayed by liquid chromÅa tography to insure completion of the reaction. mhe solution was adjusted to pH 7 with lN HCl. The volume of the reaction mixture was measured, and the solution was assayed by UV. The neutralized reaction mixture was concentrated to 15 g. l. on the reverse osmosis unit at 10 C. The volume of the concentrate was measured and the pH was adjusted to 7.2 7.4, if necessary. The concentrate was filtered through a medium porosity sintered glass funnel to remove any solids present after concentration. Step C. Dowex 50W x 2 Chromatography The concentrate 750 1000 ml., 15 20 g. was applied to OOC. to a precooled 18 1. column ofDowex SOW x 2 in the potassium cycle 200 400 mesh resin and the column was eluted at 0 50C with distilled deionized water a flow rate of 90 ml min.and a head pressure of 0 45 psig. Forerun fractions of 4 1., 2 1., and one 1., were collected followed by 18 fractions of 450 ml.each, and one final fraction of 2 1. Each fraction was assayed by UV 1 100 dilution, NH2OH extinction was omitted and the total amount of N FT present in each fraction was calculated. The beginning and end fraction were assayed for liquid chromatography purity and the desired rich cut fractions were combined. The pH of the combined rich cuts was determined by both pH meter and bromothymol blue indicating solutions and was adjusted to pH 7.2 7.4 if necessary. The combined rich cuts 3 4 1. were then assayed by UV and the total formamidine content was determined, 15 16 g., 75 yield from the column.The rich cuts were concentrated on the reverse osmosis unit at lO0C as far as possible, then the concentration to 33 g. l. was completed on the circulatory evaporator at less than 280C. A total volume of about 500 ml. concentrate was obtained. Step D. Crystallization of N Formimidoyl Thienamycin The concentrate from the previous step is adjusted to 7.3, if necessary, and N formimidoyl thienamycin content assayed by W, was about 85 90t. The concentrate was filtered through a sintered glass funnel medium porosity into a large Erlenmeyer flask. Five volumes 2200 ml. of 3A ethanol was filtered into the concentrate and the solution was stirred at room temperature for 10 minutes and at O C for 12 24 hrs. The crystals were filtered by suction filtraticn and washed with 0.1 volume 250 ml. of O C 80 3A ethanol followed by 1 25 volume 100 ml. of 3A ethanol at room temperature. The crystals were dried in vacuo for 12 24 hrs. to give approximately a 40 overall yield of N formimidoyl thienamycin 10 12 g. . Analytical results on a 50 g. blend of Nformimidoyl thienamycin, prepared as above, are as follows C, theory 45.42 found, 45.82 H, theory 6.03 found, 5.72 N, theory 13.24 found, 13.10 S, theory 10.10 found, 10.14 residue on ignition, predicted 0.5, found 0.47 a 25 89.4 , T.G. 6.8 , UV max 300 Bl, E96 D 328. METHODS OF USING THE INVENTION As mentioned above, the thienamycin type compound is used in combination with the dipeptidase inhibitor. The combination of the novel chemical inhibitor of this invention and the thienamycin class compound can be in the form of a pharmaceutical composition containing the two compounds in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The two can be employed in amounts so that the weight ratio of the thienamycin class compound to inhibitor is 1 3 to 30 1, and preferably 1 1 to 5 1. The components can also be separately administered. For instance, the thienamycin class compound can be administered intramuscularly or intravenously in amounts of 1 100 mg kg day, preferably 1 20 mg kg day, or 1 5 mg kg day, in divided dosage forms, e.g., three or four times a day. The inhibitor can be separately administered, orally, intramuscularly, or IV, in amounts of 1100 mg kg day, or preferably 1 30 mg kg day, or 1 5 mg kg day. The amounts of the two components administered during one day ideally are within the ratio limits denoted above. The most preferred dosage regimen and level is the combination of crystalline N formimidoyl thienamycin and the other being the crystalline form of 7 L amino 2 carboxyethylthio 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarb oxamido 2 heptenoic acid, co administered in a sterile aqueous IV injection form sodium salt , at a level of 250 or 500 mg of the thienamycin and about 1 1 weight of the heptenoic acid, or 250 or 500 mg. This dose is given to humans each assumed to weigh about 80 kg. from 1 to 4 times daily, or 3.1 25 mg kg day of each drug. The components, whether administered separately or together are employed in pharmaceutically acceptable carriers such as conventional vehicles adapted for oral adminstration such as capsules, tablets, or liquid solutions or suspensions. The components separately or together, can also be dissolved in a vehicle adapted for administration by injection. Suitable formulations for oral use, may include diluents, granulating agents, preservatives, binders, flavoring agents, and coating agents. The example of an oral use composition in the combination of active ingredients, or the acid component alone, intermixed in the dry pulverulent state with gelatin, starch, magnesium stearate, and alginic acid, and pressed into a tablet. As noted above, the presently known preferred method is parenteral administration of the thienamycin class compound and either co parenteral administration or oral administration of the inhibitor compound. METHODS OF TESTING THE COMBINATION ANTIBACTERIAL AGENT As noted, disposition studies with thienamycin, its natural analogs and its semi synthetic derivatives have revealed a major metabolic degradation pathway of elimination in the various species examined mouse, rat, dog, chimpanzee, Rhesus monkey . The extent of metabolism is reflected in low urinary recovery and short plasma half lives.The nature.of this degradation was demonstrated to be lactam cleavage by the renal dipeptidase E.C.3.4.13.ll , described first by Bergmann, M.and Scleich, H., Z. Physiol. Chem., 205 65 1932 see also Greenstein, J.P., Advances in Enzymology,Vol. VIII, Wiley Interscience, 1948 , New York, and Campbell, B.J. Lin, Y C., Davis, R.V. andBallew, E., The Purification and Properties ofParticulate Renal Dipeptidase , Biochim. Biophys.Acta., 118, 371 1966 . In order to demonstrate the ability of the compounds of Formula I to suppress the action of the renal dipeptidase enzyme, an in vitro screen procedure was followed. This measured the ability of compounds to inhibit hydrolysis of glycyldehydrophenylalanine GDP by a solubilized preparation of dipeptidase isolated from hog kidneys. The procedure is as follows to a 1 ml. system containing 50 mM MOPS 3 N morpholino propanesulfonic acid buffer, pH 7.1, is added 5pg of lyophilized enzyme, and the test compound at a final concentration of 0.1 mM. After a five minute incubation at 370C, GDP is added to a final concentration of 0.05mM.Incuba tion is continued for 10 minutes, at 370C and hydrolysis of GDP is measured by the change in optical density with time at 275 nm. Inhibition of the enzyme is gauged by comparison to a standard run containing no inhibitor and is expressed as the inhibitor binding constant, K.. This is the concentration of the inhibitor which achieves 50 inhibition of enzyme. The substrate GDP is employed in preference to thienamycin in this screen because it has a much higher maximal velocity of hydrolysis by renal dipeptidase, thereby reducing the amount of enzyme required. Both GDP and thienamycin have a similar affinity for renal dipeptidase furthermore, Ki s of inhibitors tested have been identical for the two substrates. In addition to this in vitro screen procedure, an in vivo screen was followed to measure the test compounds ability. to inhibit metabolism as reflected by increase in urinary recovery of thienamycin from the mouse. The procedure involves co administration of the test compound by the intravenous or subcutaneous route at a dose rate of 10 100 mg kg, with 10 mg kg thienamycin. Thienamycin recovery in the urine over a 4 hour period is then compared with its recovery in a control group to which test compound was not co administered. Urinary recovery of thienamycin was measured in all cases with the use of a cylinder or disc dif fusion assay, conducted in a manner described inU.S. Patent 3,950,357. This bioassay, with S aeohylo coccus aureus ATCC 6538 as the test organism, has a useful response range from 0.04 pg ml to 3.0 g ml. The inhibitor compounds can be made by condensing directly an 6 bromo or chloro alkenoic acid compound and cysteine . HCl or 1 amino ethane phosphoric acid. The bromo intermediate compound has the structureEMI14.1 wherein n is the number of carbons in the desired alkylene chain i.e., from 3 7 . Another route for preparing the compounds according to the invention utilizes a chloro keto ester intermediateEMI14.2 in reaction with the desired amide,EMI14.3 in toluene at reflux in the presence of a catalytic amound of p toluene sulfonic acid. The resulting intermediate is hydrolyzed to the acid the chloro group is then displaced in reaction with cysteine or 1 amino ethane phosphoric acid. This reaction is valuable since it permits use of the chiral amide V, thereby preparing a functionalized side chain. In addition, the mixture of Z E isomers prepared after the mercaptan or 1 amino ethane phosphoric acid condensation can be directly resolved into the Z form, e.g. by adding acid to a pH about 3, and heating to about 900C for 30 minutes. Only the Z form remains, and recovery is simple and straight forward. More detail about preparation of the compounds is found in the following examples. EXAMPLE 1 Z 8 Bromo 2 22 Dimethylcyclopropanecarkoxamido 2 octenoic acid To a suspension of 14.4 g 0.3 mole of 50 B aH dispersion in 360 ml of toluene cooled in an ice bath and in a N2 atmosphere was added over 45 min. a solution of 146 g 0.6 moles of 1,6dibromohexane and 57.6 g 0.3 mole of ethyl 1,3dithiane 2 carboxylate in 120 ml of DMF. The cooling bath was removed and the mixture stirred at room temperature for 20 hrs. The reaction mixture was washed with water 3 x 210 ml , dried over MgSO4 and evaporated under reduced pressure to give 179.5 g of a yellow oil containing the desired alkylated dithiane, 1,6 dibromohexane and mineral oil. This crude material was used in the next reaction without purification. To a suspension of 426 g 2.4 moles ofN bromosuccinamide in 800 ml of acetonitrile and 200 ml of H2O was added over 45 min. a solution of the crude dithiane in 100 ml of acetonitrile. The temperature of the reaction mixture was maintained below 250C with an ice bath. After stirring at 200C for 10 min. the dark red reaction mixture was poured into 2 1. of hexane CH2Cl2 l S . The solution was shaken with saturated NaHSO3 2 x 400 ml and water 1 x 500 ml . Then 400 ml of saturatedNa2CO3 solution was added in small portions vigorous CO2 solution . After the foaming subsidec the funnel was shaken and the aqueous phase separated. The organic layer was extracted with saturated Na2CO3 solution 400 ml and water 500 mJ and dried over MgSO. Removal of the solvent under reduced pressure gave 133.8 g of crude bromo ketcester containing 1,6 dibromohexane and mineral oil.This crude material was used in the n7xt reaction without purification. A mixture of 133.8 g of crude bromo ketoester, 133 ml of 50 hydrobromic acid and 267 ml of acetic acid was heated at 900C internal temperature for 75 min. The dark solution was evaporated under reduced pressure until most of the acetic acid was removed. The residue was dissolved in 500 ml of ether, washed with water 2 x 100 ml and extracted with saturated NaNCO3 3 x 200 ml . The combinedNaHCO3 extracts were extracted with ether l2 x 100 ml and acidified with concentrated HCl. The precipitated oil was extracted with ether 3 x 200 ml .The ether extracts wer washed with water 1 x 100 nl and saturated brine 1 x 100 ml and dried over MgSO4. Removal of the ether tinder reduced pressure gave 46.2 g of pure bromoketo acid. Homogeneous by TlC silica gel, 4 1 toluehe acetic acid . TheNMR spectrum was consistent with the desired product. A mixture of 46.1 g 0.194 moles of the bromo keto acid , 17.6 g 0.156 mole of 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamide and 450 ml of toluene was heated under reflux for 13 hrs., with collection of water in a small Dean Stark trap. After cooling, the clear reaction mixture was extracted with saturated NaNCO3 solution 4 x 100 ml . The combined extracts were washed with ether 2 x 100 ml and then the pH was adjusted to 3.5 pH meter by addition of concentrated HCl. An oil precipitated which soon crystallized.The solid was filtered, washed well with water and dried. Recrystallizaçion from acetonitrile gave 22.5 g of Z 8 bromo 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 2 octenoic acid, m.p. 151 153 C. Homogeneous by TLC 4 1 tolueneacetic acid . The NMR spectrum was consistent with the desired structure. tnal. Cl4H22BrNO3 Calcd Found C 50.61 50.66 H 6.67 6.96 N 4.22 4.45 Rr 24.05 23.95 The following bromo compounds were prepared vying the same procedure z 6 Bromo 2 2, 2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 2 hexenoic acid Z 7 Bromo 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 2 heptenoic acid Z 9 Bromo 2 2,2 dimethy1cyclopropanecarboxamidO 2 2 nonenoic acid Z l0 Bromo 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 2 decenoic acid z 8 Bromo 2 22 dichlorocyclopropanecarboxamido 2 octenoic acid. EXAMPLE 2 Z 7 L amino 2 carboxyethylthio 2 2,2dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 2 heptenoic acidZ 7 bromo 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido 2 heptenoic acid prepared as in Example 1 185 mg, 1.05 mmoles is dissolved in 2.02 ml NaOH solution 2.0 N , and deoxygenated by bubbling a stream of nitrogen gas through it for a minute. Then cysteine.HCl 185 mg, 1.05 mmoles is added all at once and the reaction stirred at room temperature in a N2 atmosphere for 3 hours. The reaction mixture is applied to 2 x 20 cm column of Dowex 50 x 4 100 200 mesh H l, and eluted with 300 ml H2, then 200 ml of 2N NH3 solution.Ammonia is evaporated under reduced pressure to give 284 mg of a yellowish glass. This product is dissolved in 4 ml ethanol, and the insoluble material filtered. The filtrate is added dropwise to rapidly stirred diethylether 150 ml . The solid which precipitates is filtered, washed with ether and dried to yield 171 mg product, having one spot ninhydrin positive in TLC nBuOH, HOAc, H2O 4 1 1 rf. about 6 NMR is consistent in the desired structure.Anal. C16H26N205S Calcd. Found C 53.61 52.55 H 7.31 7.40 N 7.81 7.89 S 8.94 9.63 EXAMPLE 3Sodium Z 7 L amino 2 Carboxethylthio 2 2,2 dimethyl cyclopropane carboxamido 2 heptenoic acidA. Griqnard preparation of Ethyl 7 chloro 2 oxoheptanoate Equimolar amounts 8 moles each of 1 bromo 5chloropentane and magnesium are reacted in tetrahydrofuran 960 ml at 250C. The flask is charged with Mg in the THF and the bromochloropentane added over 1 hr, then aged 2 hrs.After the reaction was judged complete, the reaction solution was added cooled to 150C to 16 moles diethyloxalate in 1856 ml tetrahydrofuran, while maintaining the temperature at 100C. 3 N HC1 was added to quench, keeping the temperature below 250C. After stripping solvents, the calculated yield is 48.8 of the ethyl I chloro 6 oxoheptenoate. B. Condensation and Hvdrolysis S 2,2 dimethylcyclopropyl carboxamide 1017 g , 2143.6 g of ethyl 7 chloro 2 oxoheptanoate, 9 liters of toluene and 12 g of p toluene sulfonic acid were charged to a 22 L flask, and heated to reflux with stirring. After 23 hrs., liquid chromatography showed the expected product ratio, and 4 L of toluene were removed under slightly reduced pressure. The pot was charged with water, neutralized to pH 7 with 2N Na0H, and vacuum distilled leaving a final pot volume of about 5 liters. This was hydrolyzed by adding 1760 g of 50 aq.NaOH 4 liters water and stirring overnight. The flask was charged with 4 L methylene chloride, and pH adjusted to 8.8 using HC1. unreacted anide crystallized out.The organic layers were separated from water, and then evaporated. The gummy residue was dissolved in 8 liters water containing 720 g 50 NaOH, and to this solution was charged 1818 g L. cysteine HCl.H20, 2 kg ice, 2484 g 50 NaOH and 1 liter water. The pH of this solution, after aging overnight at room temperature, is adjusted to 3.0 with conc. HC1, and the resulting gummy suspension heated to 950C to afford a clear solution. After 30 minutes, no E isomer could be detected by liquid chromatography. After work up and purification, the overall yield was 50 .This material was recrystalized from acetonitrile 1500 g of the recrystalized material was dissolved in 6 liters water and 910 ml 3.88 N Na0H, then neutralized to pH 7, and lyophilized to afford 1569 g 98.6 of the title compound Analysis calcd C, 50.52 H, 6.62 N, 7.36 S, 8.43 Na, 6.04 found C, 50.71 H, 6.78 N, 7.49 S,8.52 Na, 5.92. EXAMPLE 4Z 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxamido 8 IT phosphono ethylamino7 2 octenoic acid 335.1 mg Z 8 bromo 2 2 ,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxamido 2 octenoic acid is reacted with 138.2 mg 1 amino ethane phosphoric acid and 435 mg Na2CO3 in 5 ml water, heated to. 600C for 10 hours under nitrogen, cooled, then purified through a Dowex 50 X 8 H column, eluting with water. NMR confirmed presence of product, Ki 0.14.