# Method for the determination of an antigen in solution.

## Abstract
An improvement in methods for the determination of an antigen I in solution, in which determination said antigen I is reacted with an antibody II , which is directed against the antigen I , and with an antibody III , which is directed against the antigen I and is labelled with an analytically indicatable atom or group and is soluble in the liquid in the presence of which the determination is carried out, to the formation of a conjugate comprising said antigen I and said antibodies II and III , which conjugate is insoluble or is made insoluble, whereafter the analytically indicatable atom or group is determined in the insoluble or insolubilized conjugate and or in the solution. The improvement compris es using as antibody II and antibody III in said determina tion antibodies which are monoclonal and react with roomly spaced determinants of the antigen I .

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Method for the determination of an antigen I in solution, in which determination said antigen I is reacted with an antibody II , which is directed against the antigen I , and with an antibody III , which is directed against the antigen I and is labelled with an analytically indicatable atom or group and is soluble in the liquid in the presence of which the determination is carried out, to the formation of a conjugate comprising said antigen I and said antibodies II and III , which conjugate is insoluble or is made insoluble, whereafter the analytically indicatable atom or group is determined in the insoluble or insolubilized conjugate and or in the solution, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in using as antibody II and antibody III in said determination antibodies which are monoclonal and react with roomly spaced determinants of the antigen I . 2. method according to claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in using as antibody II an antibody if , which is bound to a water insoluble solid phase. 3. Method according to claim 2, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the antibody II is bound by covalent bonds to a water insoluble polymer. 4. Method according to claims 1 3, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in using as antibodies II and III monoclonal antibodies which are directed against structurally different determinants of the antigen I . 5. Method according to claim 4, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the antibodies II and III are added to a sample at least substantially contemporaneously. 6. Method according to claims 1 3, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the antigen I to be determined exhibits two equal determinants which are roomly spaced, that antibody II is bound to an insoluble carrier and that antibodies II and III are monoclonal antibodies directed against said determinants.

## Description
METHOD FOR THE DETERMINATION OF AN ANTIGEN IN SOLUTION The present invention relates to a method for the determination of an antigen in solution. More particularly, the present invention relates to a method for the determination of an antigen I in solution, in which determination said antigen I is reacted with an antibody II , which is directed against the antigen I and with an antibody III , which is directed against the antigen I and is labelled with an analytically indicatable atom or group and is soluble in the liquid in the presence of which the determination is carried out, to the formation of a conjugate comprising said antigen I and said antibodies II and III , which conjugate is insoluble or is made insoluble, whereafter the analytically indicatable atom or group is determined in the insoluble or insolubilized conjugate and or in the solution. Usually and preferably said conjugate is insoluble or is made insoluble by said antibody II being insoluble or being made insoluble by bonding to a water insoluble solid phase.Thus, the antibody II may be insoluble before the formation of the conjugate by being bound to a water insoluble solid phase or the antibody II is made insoluble after the formation of the conjugate by bonding to a water insoluble solid phase whereby the conjugate is made insoluble also. The waterinsoluble phase may be a water insoluble polymer. The antibody 11 may be bound to the water insoluble polymer by covalent bonds. Other methods of making the conjugate insoluble are also possible. A great number of assay methods involving biospecific affinity reactions is known in which methods a first immunochemical reactant is reacted with a second immunochemical reactant exhibiting biospecific affinity to said first reactant and then a third immunochemical reactant, which exhibits bio specific affinity to the first or the second reactant i.e.is an immunochemical counterpart to the first or the second reactant is reacted with its counterpart to the formation of a conjugate comprising said first, second and third reactants, one of said reactants being labelled with an analytically indicatable atom or group of atoms. The term immunochemical reactant as used in this context includes immunoglobulins including modified immunoglobulins, e.g. aggregated, and fragments e.g. Fab or Fc fragments , preferably antibodies, and antigens and haptens. In order to enable the determination of the analytically indicatable atom or group in the conjugate a separation of said conjugate and free labelled reactant i.e. labelled reactant which is not bound in the conjugate is carried out. A common way of achieving such a separation is to use as one of the reactants but not the labelled reactant a reactant which is bound to an insoluble polymer resulting in the conjugate formed by the biospecific reactions being attached to the insoluble polymer so that said conjugate can be separated from the free labelled reactant which remains in solution. According to one group of such methods a water insoluble polymer material is used to which an antibody or an antigen is bound.Thus, for instance, British Patent Specifications Nos. 1 192 78t, 1 248 764 and 1 248 765 and also Biochem. Biophys. Acta 130 1966 page 257 and Radioimmunoassay Methods Editors K. E. Kirkham and W. .. Hunter, Churchil Livingstone, London 1971 e.g. the article Solid Phase Antigen Antibody Systems byL. Wide, pp 405 412, disclose the use of a water insoluble polymer material having an antibody or an antigen bound thereto by bonds of covalent nature. Further, US Patent SpecificationNo. 3 646 346 discloses an immunochemical assay method using antibodies adsorbed to the inside of a test tube of a plastics material. A recent way of achieving separation of the conjugate is disclosed in Swedish Patent Application No. 8003732 8.According to this reference the conjugate formed by the different reactants is soluble in water but after its formation it is bound covalently to an insoluble carrier or to an insolubilizable carrier which latter carrier is made insoluble after the covalent bonding of the conjugate thereto. Labelling of an antigeneor an antibody with an analytically indicatable atom or group, for instance a radioactive atom or group, a fluorescent, luminescent or chromophoric group or an enzymatically active group, an enzyme inhibitor group or a co enzyme group, is well known nowadays and well established techniques for this labelling are generally known. In this connection it is known that the labelling group or atom can be bound directly to the antigen or antibody or that a bridge may be introduced between the antigen or antibody and the label. According to another aspect assay methods involving biospecific affinity reactions may be grouped into two types of methods, viz, competitive methods and sandwich methods. In competitive methods an unlabelled reactant in a sample and corresponding labelled reactant are reacted with the immunochemical counterpart to said reactants under competition. In sandwich methods, a first reactant, bound to an insoluble or insolubilizable carrier, is reacted with a reactant to be determined in a sample which latter reactant then is reacted with a labelled immunochemical counterpart thereto, which counterpart may be labelled first reactant. Wnen determining an antigen in a sample a sandwich type method is often preferred since such a method does not require the use of labelled antigen which in certain cases is difficult to procure. However, the sandwich assay places particularly stringent requirements on the specificity of the antibody used and an assay procedure with multiple incubation and washing steps is usually required. According to the present invention an improved sandwich assay method of the type set forth in the introductory part above is provided, which method is characterized in using as antibody II and antibody III in said determination antibodies which are monoclonal and react with roomly spaced sterically spaced determinants of the antigen I . Thus, at the formation of the conjugate the monoclonal antibody 11 can bind to a site on the antigen I and the labelled monoclonal antibody WIZ can bind to another site on the antigen I , whereby the two sites located on the antigen I are spaced from each other so that antibody II and antibody III can both at the same time occur bound to antigen I without constituting a sterical hindrance one to the other.The two binding sites on the antigen I can for example be located on different sides of the antigen I , e.g. on different sides of a protein molecule. When compared to the prior art use of the antibodies of a common antiserum, which comprises a population of different antibodies having varying specificities and affinities and which antibodies can be directed against different sites determinants on the antigen I , the use of monoclonal antibodies according to the invention affords a conciderable progress and enables more accurate analysis and also analytical procedures which have not been possible before. Thus, the method according to the invention is an improvement in clinical diagnosis. According to the preferred embodiment of the method according to the invention said antibodies II and III are monoclonal antibodies which are directed against structurally different determinants of the antigen I . This embodiment makes a contemporaneous or substantially contemporaneous addition of the two antibodies possible, thus eliminating one incubation and washing procedure as compared with the prior art technique. Thus, the antibodies 11 and III are preferably added to the sample to be tested for antigen I at least substantially contemporanecusly when practising this embodiment. According to another embodiment of the method according to the present invention, which embodiment is to be applied to the determination of an antigen exhibiting two equal determinants which are roomly spaced as is the case of e.g. fibronectin, antibody II is bound to an insoluble carrier e.g. an insoluble polymer and antibodies II and III are monoclonal antibodies directed against said determinants. When practising this embodiment the antigen I is reacted with antibody II and then with antibody III . Due to sterical obstacles caused by the solid carrier only one of the two equal determinants of the antigen I is reacted with antibody II , thus leaving the other determinant free to react with antibody III . The preparation of monoclonal antibodies is described in literature vide for instance G. Kbhler and C. Milstein Nature 256, 495 1975 Galfre et al., Nature 266 1977 550, Oi et al.,Current topics in Microbiology and Immunology 81 1978 115129 and the article Immunoglobulin Producing Hybrid Cell Lines by V. T. Oi and L. A. Herzenberg in Selective Methods in CellularImmunology edited by Mishell B.B. Shiigi S. M. in Press 1980. Briefly the preparation of monoclonal antibodies may be carried out for example as follows A plasma cell, secreting predefined antibody, from the spleen of the immunized mouse, is fused with a myeloma cell capable of vigorous and continuous growth. Selection of myeloma spleen cell hybrids are accomplished by culturing the fusion mixture in hypoxanthine aminopterin thymidine medium HAT medium .Supernates of the surviving hybrid cell cultures are then tested for antibody activity. An aliquot of cells from antibodyproducing cultures is grown and prepared for freezing, while another aliquot is employed in cloning of the hybrids. In the latter procedure the cells are grown at limiting dilutions to derive cloned cell lines. Clones that secret the desired antibody are then expanded, and several aliquots frozen while others are used for large scale antibody production. The resulting antibodies are then purified and characterized. Monoclonal antibodies to be used as antibody II in the method according to the invention can be bound to an insoluble or insolubilizable carrier using the prior art technique disclosed for the bonding of immunochemical reactants to such carriers. The bonding to the carrier material may be carried out before or after the reaction of antibody II with the antigen I or even after the formation of the conjugate comprising the antigen I and the antibodies II and III . Bonding by covalent bonds may be carried out before the reaction with the antigen I by means of well known coupling agents such as glutardialdehyde, cyanogen bromide, etc. whereas the bonding technique disclosed in Swedish Patent ApplicationNo. 8003732 8 may be used for covalent coupling of antibody Il before as well as after the reaction with antigen I and the formation of the above mentioned conjugate. When applying last mentioned technique a carrier and an antibody II are used which exhibit one type each of reactive groups, said reactive groups of the two reactants being capable of reacting with each other to the formation of a covalent bond between the carrier and said antibody. For instance, one of the two reactants i.e. the carrier or the antibody may exhibit pyridyl disulphide groups and the other SH groups which groups are able to react with each other in a thiol disulphide exchange reaction to the formation of a disulphide bridge between the carrier and the antibody. This combination of reactive groups may also be used in case of a water soluble carrier, which is made insoluble after the covalent bonding of antibody II to the carrier has been carried out.In this case a water soluble polymer containing pyridyldisulphide groups may for example be used as the carrier and an antibody II may be used which exhibits HS groups which react with the pyridyl disulphide group of the carrier in a thiol disulphide exchange reaction to the coupling together of the antibody and the carrier over a S S bridge. The number of pyridyldisulphide groups is selected to be in considerable excess as compared to the number of HS groups of the antibodies. After the coupling together of the carrier and the antibody, part of the residual pyridyldisulphide groups of the carrier are transferred into HS group by treatment with a reducing agent such as dithiothreitol.A polymerisation of the carrier molecules to the formation of an insoluble product by reaction between the HSgroups thus formed and residual pyridyl disulphide groups will then take place. Labelling of the monoclonal antibody to be used as antibody III with at least one analytically indicatable atom or group is carried out using the conventional technique for the labelling of antibodies. Like in the prior art methods the determination is preferably carried out in the presence of an aqueous liquid, e.g. a buffer solution of a suitable pH and suitable ion strength. The antigen may be in solution in said liquid, including colloidal solution. The invention is further illustrated by the following examples.Example 1 A Preparation of monoclonal antibodies Antibodies to human alphafetoprotein AFP were produced by hybridization of mouse myeloma cells with spleen cells from mice immunized with AFP. The hybridization and subsequent culture and cloning of the hybrids were performed essentially according to Oi and Herzenberg in Selective Methods inCellular Immunologi, edited by Mishell B.B. Shiigi S.M.in Press. Briefly BALB C Dub mice Flow Laboratories, Dublin, Va.,USA were immunized by subcutaneous injections of 50 pg of purified AFP emulsified in complete Freunds adjuvant. The injections were repeated 2 3 times at 3 4 week interval.A final injection of AFP was given intraperitoneally and 3 5 days later the spleens of the mice were removed for hybridization. The myeloma cell line reference The Journal of Irumurlo logy, Vol 123, No 4, 1979, pages 1548 1550 was used for hybridization. 108 spleen cells were mixed with 1 3 x 107 myeloma cells in Dulbecco s medium from Flow Laboratories,Inglewood, Ca., USA . The cells were spun down to form a tight pellet and all the supernatant was removed. 1 ml 50E w v polyethylene glycol Mw 1500 was added slowly with gently mixing of the cells. After one minute the cell suspension was diluted slowly with 5 ml of Dulbecco s medium fromFlow Laboratories, Inglewood, Ca., USA . The cells were spun down, washed and distributed into two 96 well plates inDulbecco s medium containing 10 w v fetal calf serum 100IU ml penicillin and 100 Vg ml streptomycin.The plates were placed into 7 CO2 incubation at 37or. Half of the culture medium in each well was replaced by fresh medium containing hypoxanthine aminopterin thymidin HAT 10 hypoxanthine, 4 x 10 7 M aminopterin and 1.6 x 10 5 M thymidin on days 1, 2 and 3 and every 3 days thereafter for 2 weeks. The cultures were tested for anti AFP activity using the enzyme linked immunosorbent assay, ELISA Eva Engvall and Peter Perlmann,J. Immunol. 109, 129 135, 1972 . The positive cultures detected by this assay were cloned repeatedly using the limiting dilution method Oi and Herzenberg, 1980 and then grown in culture or as ascites tumours in mice. B Coating of microtitre plates The monoclonal antihuman AFP antibodies were diluted in 0.1 M sodium carbonate buffer pH 9.5 to a concentration of 5 pg ml. Wells in non treated polystyrene microtitre plates Titertek from Flow Laboratories, Inglewood, Ca., USA were coated with 200 ul of the diluted antibodies overnight at room temperature. The plates were washed three times with 0.9E by weight sodium chloride solution containing 0.05 by volume polyoxyethylene sorbitan monolaurate Tween20 . C Preparation of enzyme labelled antihuman AFP anti bodies Mouse monoclonal anti AFP antibodies were conjugated with horse radish peroxidase according to the following procedure 5 mg of horse radish peroxidase peroxidase Type VI fromSigma Chemical Company, St. Louis, USA were dissolved in 100 ul of phosphate buffered saline pH 7.2 with 1.25 w v glutardialdehyde. The solution was incubated overnight at room temperature. 0.9 ml 0.1 M sodium carbonate buffer pH 9.2 was added and the mixture was dialysed against 0.1M NaHCO3 for 8 hours. 2.5 mg of mouse anti AFP antibodies were added and the mixture was incubated overnight at room temperature. Possibly remaining reactive groups were blocked by the addition of 0.1 ml of 0.2 M lysine. The conjugate formed can be stored in 50 w v glycerol. D Determination of AFP The analysis was performed in the wells of microtitre plates pre coated according to B above. 0.05 ml of phosphate buffered saline with 0.05 by volume of Tween 20 and 1E w v steer serum pH 7.2 was added to all wells. 0.1 ml of the sample to be tested was added to one of the wells A . 0.1 ml of standard solutions containing 100, 50, 25, 12.5, 6.25, 3.1 and 1.5 ug AFP 1 was added to respectively wellsB, C, D, E, F, G, H and I. 0.05 ml of the solution containing the enzyme labelled antibody from C above diluted 100 times in phosphate buffered saline pH 7.2 was added to each well and the mixture was incubated for 2 h at 370C. The wells were then washed 3 times with 0.9E by weight sodium chloride containing 0.05E by volume been Tween 20 0.2 ml of a substrate comprising 0.4 mg ml o phenylendiamine in 0.1 m citrate phosphate buffer pH 5.0 containing 0.018 w v H202 was added for 30 minutes at room temperature. The colour development was read spectrophotometrically at 450 nm. If the colour development is stopped by the addition of 4M H2SO4 the absorbance should be measured at 492 nm. The results when using two different monoclonal antibodies i.e. antibodies directed against roomly spaced determinants were APP concentration Absorbance at 450 nm Ug l 100 1.6 50 0.82 25 0.44 12.5 0.25 6.25 0.13 3.1 0.07 1.5 0. i3 The results when the same monoclonal antibody was coated to the wells as was used for the enzyme conjugate were AFP concentration Absorbance at 450 nm 100 0.02 50 0.02 25 0.02 12.5 0.02 6.25 0.02 3.1 0.02 1.5 0.02 Example 2 A Preuaration of monoclonal antibodies Mouse nionoclonal anti AFP antibodies are prepared according to te procedure described in Example 1A. B Preparation of paper discs with covelently bound antibodies The antibodies of A above are coupled to BrCN activated paper discs according to the procedure described by H. Ceska and U. Lundkvist in Immunochemistry Vol. 9, No. 10, pp 10211030. C Preraratin of 1251 labelled AFP antibody Monoclonal anti AFP antibodies prepared according toExample 1A are labelled with 1251 according to the method described by Hunter and Greenwood Nature, Vol. 194, 1962, p. 495 . D Determination of AFP The assay is performed essentially as was described byM. Ceska and U. Lundkvist in Immunochemistry, Vol. 9, No. 10, pp. 1021 1030 for IgE, except for that all the components are added simultaneously. The incubation time is 3 hours at room temperature. The tubes with the washed discs are placed in a counter for estimating gamma radiation. The number of counts per time unit for the standards are entered on a counts dose diagram on a lin log scale from which the amount of AFP in the unknown test samples can be calculated.Example 3 A Preparation of monoclonal antibodies Mouse monoclonal antihuman fibronectin antibodies were prepared according to the procedure described in Example 1 A for mouse monoclonal antiAFP antibodies. B Coating of microtitre plates The antibodies of A above were diluted in 0.1 M sodium carbonate buffer pH 9.5 to a concentration of 3 ug ml. Wells of microtitre plates were coated in the manner described in Example 1 B . C Preparation of enzyme labelled anti human fibronec tin antibodies Mouse monoclonal antihuman fibronectin antibodies aHFN were conjugated with alkaline phosphatase according to the following procedure. 300 ul 1.5 mg alkaline phosphatase phosphatase TypeVII 5 mg ml in NH4 2SO4, from Sigma Chemical Company, St.Louis, USA and 100 pl a HFN from A above in phosphate buffered saline pH 7.2 were dialysed under high pressure in cold overnight against phosphate buffered saline pH 7.2 to get rid of NH4 2SO4. 25 w v glutardialdehyde was added to a final concentration of 0.2 w v . The mixture was incubated for 3 h at room temperature and then dialysed against phosphate buffered saline pH 7.2 overnight. D Determination of HFN The analysis was performed in the wells of microtitre plates precoated according to B above. 0.2 ml cf a sample to be tested was added to one of the wells A . 0.2 ml of a standard solution containing 4000, 800, 160, 32 and 6.4 g FFN 1 was added to respectively wells B, C, D,E, F and G. After incubation for 3 h at 437 C the wells were washed three times with 0.9 by weight NaCl containing 0.05 by volume Tween 20 0.2 ml ol the solution from C above containing the enzyme labelled antibody was added to each of the wells and then incubation was performer for 3 h at 37 C, whereafter the wells were washed three times with 0.9E by weight NaCl containing 0.05 by volume Tween020. 0.2 1 C a substrate comprising 1 mg ml p nitrophenyl phosrhate from Sigma Chemical Company, St. Louis, USA in 1.0 M diethanolamine HCl buffer pi 9.8 containing 1 mM MgC12 was added and 30 minutes later 0.5 ml of 0.5N NaOH was added. The colour development was read spectrophotometrically at 405 rum. The results when the same monoclonal antibody was coated to the wells as was used for the enzyme conjugate were HFN concentration Absorbance at 405 nm kg l 4000 2.0 800 1.1 160 0.52 32 0.25 6.4 0.12