# Method of purifying gases from acid gas components, especially purifying flue gases from sulphur dioxide.

## Abstract
Purification of gases from acid gas components accord ing to the dry method means that the gas is contacted with an absorbent in a solid phase, which yields a relatively low reaction rate. In order to increase the reaction rate according to the invention, the gas is contacted with a mixture consisting partially of a solid absorbent phase and partially a liquid phase on the surface of the solid phase. At the purification of flue gases from sulphur dioxid hot gas is contacted with an absorption liquid in a drying apparatus, where evaporation of the water supplied and a reaction between sulphur dioxide and the absorption substance take place simultaneously, whereafter the solid product phase is separated from the gas in a dust separator and a slower, secondary absorption reaction is operative. In order to achieve a higher reaction rate in the dust separator, a substance is added to the flue gas which, together with other chemical species derived from the gas or the solid absorbent forms a liquid phase distributed over the surface of the solid phases. The liquid phase usually contains water and has a good solubility for reactants and reaction products.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method of purifying gases from acid components, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n that the gas is contacted with a mixture consisting of a solid absorbent phase and a liquid, hydrous phase, which liquid phase at least partly covers the solid phase and is created by adding to the absorbent a hygroscopic substance, which at that in the gases prevailing water partial pressure and temperature, is thermodynamically stable. 2. A method of purifying gases from acid gas components as defined in claim 1, where the gases consist of flue gases and the acid gas components consist of sulphur dioxide and the purifying process corprisina a drying and absorption step and a dust separation and secondary absorption step, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n that absorption liquid and a substance are added to the flue gas, which substance has the property, under the conditions prevailing in the dust separator, to form the liquid phase distributed over the surface of the solid phases. 3. A method as defined in claim 1, character i z e d i n that the liquid phase is aqueous and has good solubility for reactants and reaction products. 4. A method as defined in cla .tn 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n that the addition forming a liquid phase is one of the substances FeC13, Fe N03 3, Fe NO3 2, Al NO3 3, Ca NO 3 2, Mg C103 2, MnC12, K2S04e Mg504, NaAl S04 2, NaC10, Na3PO4, Na2SiO3, Na2SO4, Zn N03 2. 5. A method as defined in the claims 2 4, char a c t e r i z e d in that the added substance constitutes at maximum 20 per cent by volume, preferably at maximum 5 per cent by volume, of the solid phases present at the dust separator step. 6. A method as defined in the claims 1 5, char a ct e r i z e d i n that the absorbent is calcium hydroxid, calcium carbonate, magnesium calcium carbonate, sodium carbonate, sodium hydroxide or mixtures thereof. 7. A method as defined in the claims 2 3, c h a r a ct e r i z e d i n that the added substance is at least partially extracted from fly ash separated from the flue gas. 8. A method as defined in the claims 2 3, c h a r a ct e r i z e d i n that the added substance is at least partially extracted from gaseous substances in the flue gas. 9. A method as defined in the claims 1 7, char a ct e r i z e d i n that the added substance is mixed in the absorption liquid prior to its atomization. 10. A method as defined in the claims 2 7, c h a r a ct e r i z e d i n that the addition substance is added to the flue gas by means of a special atomization device.

## Description
Method of purifying gases from acid gas components, especial purifying flue gases from sulphurGases can be purified from acid gases by contacting with an absorbent in a liquid phase wet method or in a solid phase dry method . The present invention relates to a substantially dry method. As the dry method includes reaction steps implying diffusion into a solid phase, one of its disadvantages is a relatively low reaction rate.The object of the present invention is to reduce the impact of the said disadvantage. This object is achieved according to the invention characterized by the attached claim 1.By effecting a liquid aqueous phase with a high solubility for the participating reactants on the surface of the solid absorbent particles, the reaction steps, viz dissolving of the acid gas component, diffusion, separation of absorbent and precipitation of reaction product, proceed substantially more rapid than the corresponding reaction steps when only gaseous and solid reactants are present. The absorbent may be an oxide, a carbonate or a hydroxide of an alkali metal. The liquid phase, may be derived from av hygroscopic salt, which at the prevailing gas temperature and gas water content is a molten hydrate. In recent years a process for absorbtion of sulphur dioxide from a hot flue gas has come into use which in the literature is referred as dry scrubbing . The process substantially comprises a drying step and a filtering step, and it operates as follows The hot gas is contacted in a drying apparatus with an atomized aqueous suspension or an aqueous solution of a substance capable to react with sulphur dioxide. In the drying apparatus evaporation of the supplied water takes place and simultaneously a reaction between sulphur dioxide and the absorbent occurs. As the gas leaves the drying apparatus, the major part of the supplied water has evaporated, the gas temperature has decreased, the water vapour content of the gas has increased, and part of the sulphur dioxide has been absorbed and now is bound to the solid reaction product.The gas thereafter passes a dust separator where the solid product remaining absorbent and any other solid material is separated from the gas. Part of the separated dust may be further recycled into the absorption liquid in order to increase the utilization of the absorbent.This process often results in incomplete utilization of the absorbent during the driving period. After said period the reaction between the sulphur dioxide and the absorbent proceeds in the dust separator. This reaction, however, proceeds relatively slowly, since the reaction steps occur in solid phases.The present invention has also the object of bringing about a higher reaction rate during said latter process step. This is achieved by the method defined in the attached subclaims. This higher reaction rate is obtained by adding to the gas a limited amount of such substances, which under the conditions prevailing in the dust separator form on the surface of the solid particles a liquid aqueous phase with sufficient solubility for the reactants. As the reaction steps, viz.solution of sulphur dioxide, diffusion of reactants and precipitation of product, proceed substantially more rapid than the corresponding steps in a solid phase, the net effect thereof is an increase ot the total reaction rate. In order to prevent the operation of the dust separator from being jeopardized, the volume of the liquid phase must be small in relation to the volume of the solid phases, and in order to achieve a good effect, the liquid phase must be well distributed over the surface of the solid phases.Examples of compounds, the hydrate of which has the property of, under the conditions prevailing at the absorption of sulphur dioxide from flue gases of fossil fired boilers, being in liquid phase are a.o. Fez13, Fe N03 3, Fe N03 2, Al NO3 3, Ca N0 3 2, Mg Cl03 2, Mntlp, K2S04 MgS04, NaAl S04 , NaClO, Na3PO4, Na2SiO3, Na2SO4, Zn WO3 2. ExampleIn a pilot plant with a capacity of 10 000 Nm3 h comprising a drying apparatus, into which atomized absorption liquid is injected, and a fabric filter as the dust separator, tests were carried out for determining the capacity with and without the addition of some of the aforesaid substances. Calcium hydroxide was used as absorbent which was added in an amount corresponding to a mole ratio Ca SO2 1,1 calculated on ingoing gas . The ingoing gas had a temperature of 1400C and an S02 content of 850 ppm. The filter velocity of the fabric filter was 92 m h. The gas temperature after passing through the fabric filter was 70 C. The following 502 absorption efficiencies were measured.Test No. Addition Efficiency 1 70 2 FeCl3 74 3 FeSO4 83 4 Fe N03 3 81 5 Al W03 3 71 6 Ca N03 2 76 7 NaAl S04 2 78 8 Na2S04 74 9 Zn N03 2 77