# DNA transducing vector and microorganism containing it.

## Abstract
Described is a DNA transducing vector carrying the P1 promoter derived from ribosomal RNA of Escherichia coli, a microorganism containing a DNA transducing vector carrying this P1 promoter, a recombinant DNA carrying this P1 promoter, a microorganism containing this recombinant DNA, a microorganism containing said recombinant DNA and E. coli I 001 and I 002, ATCC No. 31 698 and 31 699. The P1 promoter derived from ribosomal RNA of E. Coli has a stronger activity than the lactose promoter see also Fig. 1.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A DNA transducing vector carrying the P promoter derived from ribosomal RNA of Escherichia coli. 2. A microorganism containing a DNA transducing vector carrying the P1 promoter derived from ribosomal RNA of Escherichia coli. 3. Escherichia coli I 001, ATCC 31698. 4. A recombinant DNA carrying the P1 promoter derived from ribosomal RNA of Escherichia coli. 5. A microorganism containing a recombinantDNA carrying the P1 promoter derived from ribosomal RNA of Escherichia coli. 6. Escherichia coli I 002, ATCC 31699.

## Description
A DNA TRANSDUCING VECTOR CARRYING THE P1 PROMOTER DERIVED FROM RIBOSOMALRNA OF E. COLI, A MICROORGANISM CONTAINING A DAN TRANSDUCING VECTOR CARRYINGTHIS P, PROMOTER, A RECOMBINANT DNA CARRYING THIS P1 PROMOTER, A MICRDORGANISM CONTAINING SAID RECOMBIMANT DAN AND E. COM 1 001 AND 1 002, ATCC NO.31 698 AND 31 699 Background of the Invention The present invention relates generally to a novel DNA transducing vector and a novel recombinantDNA, and more specifically to a DNA transducing vector carrying a P1 promoter derived from ribosomal RNA ofEscherichia coli and a recombinant DNA carrying the P1 promoter. DNA transducing vectors and recombinant DNAs are useful in recombinant technology for cloning genes of animals, plants and microorg anisms and the expression thereof. Recently the development of recombinant DNA technology has yielded a number of transducing vectors.One of the vectors which is most frequently used for the expression of the cloned gene for proteins derived from animals in Escherichia coli is a transducing vector carrying a lactose promoter. Lactose operon, the operon for the lactoseutilizing system in Escherichia coli, is one of the well known operons. Three genes which encode 5 galactosidase, galactoside permiase and galactoside acetyltransferase are aligned downstream of the lactose promoter and are expressed under the control of the promoter The available literature illustrates several examples wherein animal genes are clones in transducing vectors carrying lactose promoters and the expression thereof has been ascertained. For example, Itakura et al. has succeeded in the expression of somatostatin human hormone gene which is synthesized by chemical methods and fused to a lactose promote on the plasmid pBR 322 K. Itakura et al., Science 198, 1056 1978 .Thereafter, chicken ovalbumin gene tB. J. Bruce, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci., 75, 5936 1978 1, huran insulin gene 1A. D. Riggs et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci., 76, 106 197933 and human growth hormone gene D. V. Goeddel et al.,Nature 281, 544 1979 l have been fused to plasmids carrying a lactose promoter and the production of animal proteins in Escherichia coli has been confirmed.In the case of human growth hormone, 186,000 molecules of hormone per cell of E. coli were produced, which illustrates the usefulness of plasmid vectors having lactose promoters in recombinant technology. The ribosome of E. coli is a complex 708,M.W. 2.8 x 10 dalton of three RNAs 16S, 235 and 5S and 55 proteins. The ribosome is an important intracellular particle which effects the synthesis of proteins and is composed of two particles, 30S and 50S. More precisely, one particle 305 is a ribonucleoprotein composed of an RNA 165, M.W. 5.6 x 105 dalton and 21 proteins and the other particle 508 is that composed of two RNAs 238, M.W. 1.1 x 106 dalton, 58,M.W. 4 x 104 dalton and 34 proteins. In general, the process wherein a messengerRNA is synthesized using a DNA encoding genetic information as a elate is called transcription and the process wherein a protein is synthesized depending on the information encoded on a messenger RNA is called translation . Ribosomes play the most important role in the translation process. It is said that about 15,000 ribosomes are generally present in one cell of E. coli but the amount thereof varies depending on the growth rate of the microorganism. That is, the amount of ribosome is proportional to the growth rate of the microorganism.It is known that the growth rate of E. coli in a nutrient rich medium is high, i.e. about one division per 20 minutes and under such condition ribosomal RNAs increase in proportion to the growth rate of the microorganism N. O. Kjeldgaard, J. Mol. Biol, 6, 341 1963 . Ribosomal RNA genes of E. coli are lined in the order of two promoters P1 and P2 165 RNA, 23S RNA and SS RNA. The synthesis of the three RNAs are under the control of the promoters P1 and P2. Such ribosomalRNA genes operon of E. coli are present in the ratio of 7 to one chromosome and are called ribosomal RNA gene rrn A, B, C, D, E, F and G, respectively 1M. Nomura Ann. Rev. Genet., 11, 297 347 1977 . It is knowr. that as a feature of these RNA operons, tandem promoters named P1 and P2 are present, that is, P1 andP2 are located at about 300 base pairs and about 200 base pairs upstream from the 5 end of the structural gene 16S RNA, respectively. It has been presumed, based upon in vitro experiments, that the intensity of the promoter P1 so called transcription rate on the synthesis of RNA from DNA is 5 to 10 times that of P2 deBoer J.Biol. Chem., 254, 5609 1979 3. The results suggest that P1 is more useful than P2 in application to recombinant technology. The base sequences of the P1 and P2 promoters on the ribosomal RNA operon A, D and E 2 have already been established and it has been eter mined that the P1 promoter of these operons has the same 15 base pairs sequence including the so called Pribnow Box , a site to which RNA polymerase binds during transcription R. deBoer et al., Cell, 17, 201 1979 , R. A. Young et al., Cell, 17, 225 1979 .Summary of the Invention In accordance with the present invention, aDNA transducing vector and a recombinant DNX carrying the P1 promoter has been made and it has been found that the P1 promoter has a stronger promoter activity than that of the lactose promoter. A comparison of the activities of these promoters shows that the P1 promoter derived from ribosomal RNA of Escherichia ccli referred to as P1 fragment , hereinafter has a stronger activity than the lactose promoter. Therefore, a DNA transducing vector or a recombinant DNA containing the P1 promoter is useful for cloning genes of animals, plants and microorganisms and also the expression thereof.Detailed Description o the Invention In accordance with the present invention, the following general procedures are employed. 1 Method for preparation of DNA transducing vector with P1 fragment By way of example, the method of inserting theP1 fragment into plasmid vector pBR 325 is explained. Generally speaking, the P1 fragment is prepared from the transducing page DNA, Amet A 20. RibosomalRNA gene is cloned in e transducing phage DNA and ribosomal RNA promoter is included therein. The phage DNA is digested with. a restriction enzyme and the desired 1 fragment is purified by agarose gel electrophoresis or polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis The P1 fragment is inserted into a plasmia vector pBR 325. The above processes are carried out according to the methods used generally in recombinant technology. That is, the pBR 325 is digested with a restriction enzyme such as Eco RI, Hind III and Bam HI and the Pl fragment is combined with the digested pBR 325 using T4DNA ligase As is illustrated in FlowSheet I, the P1 fragment has Eco RI and Hind III restriction sites at both enas. When the P1 fragment is inserted into Eco RI and Hind III sites of pBR 325 refer to Flow Sheet II , the Hind II site of the P1 fragment is changed to a Hind III si e with the Hind III linker prior to the insertion. The recombinant plasmid of 21 fragment and pBR 325 is introduced into an E. coli strain and the transformant, grown on an agar medium containing 1 to 100 pg ml, preferably about 20 pg ml of ampicillin, is readily selected for tetracycline resistance and chloramphenicol sensitivity. The construction of the recombinant plasmid is carried out under the following conditions. Digestion of DNA with restriction enzymes is carried out as follows.Generally 0.1 to 20 g of DNA is digested with 0.1 to 100 units, preferably 1 to 3 units of a restriction enzyme per 1 pg of DNA in the presence of 2 to 200 mM, preferably 10 to 40 mM Tris HCl pH 6.0 to 9.5, preferably pH 7.0 to 8.0 , 2 to 100 mM NaCl and 2 to 20 mM, preferably 5 to 10 mM MgCl2 at a temperature of 18 to 420C, preferably 32 to 38 C, for 15 minutes to 24 hours. The reaction is terminated by heating generally at 55 to 700C, preferably 63 to 670C for 5 to 10 minutes.Alternatively, the reaction may be terminated by inactivating the restriction enzyme by the addition of an agent such as diethylpyrocarbonate, In the case of ligating two or more DNA fragments cleaved with restriction enzyme, the fragments are incubated with 0.3 to 10 units of T4 DNA ligase at a temperature of 1 to 37 CC, preferably 3 to 200C for 15 minutes to 72 hours, preferably 2 to 20 hours in the presence of 2 to 200 mM, preferably 10 to 40 mM TrisHC1 pH 6.0 to 9.5, preferably H 7 7.0 to 8.0 , 2 to 20 mM, preferably 5 to 10 TnM MgC12, 0.1 to 10 rnM, preferably 0.5 to 2 rn1 ATP and 1 to 50 mM, preferably 3 to 20 mM dithiothreitol. Thus, a recombinant plasmid of pBR 325 and P fragment, i.e., DNA transducing vector is constructed. It should be appreciated that the P1 fragment may be inserted into pBR 325 after digestion with Eco RI and Bam BI or Eco RI and Sal I. Moreover, the P1 fragment can be inserted after the digestion of pBR 325 with Pst I. Although the plasmid vector pBR 325 has been described above, any plasmid vector may be employed in the present invention in which the P1 promoter is inserted and shows promoter activity. Preferably, a plasmid vector having restriction sites digestible with at least one member selected from 1 EcoRI, 2 HindIII and 3 a combination of Eco RI or Hind III and Bam HI, Sal I or Pst I is used. As the most preferable plasmid vectors, pBR 325, pBR 322, pBR 327, pB 328 and pGA 22 are examples. Vector pBR 322 is described inGene 2, 95 1977 F. Bolivar and pBR 327 and pBR 328 are described in Gene 9, 287 1980 X. Soberon et al .These plasmid vectors are digested with Eco RI or HindIII and the P1 fragment is inserted into the digested vector to obtain a DNA transducing vector carrying theP1 promoter of ribosomal RNA The pGA 22 vector is described in J. Bacteriol. 140, 400 1979 G. An et al . A DNA vector which carries the P1 fragment and ampicillin resistance gene or a DNA vector which carries the P1 fragment, ampicillin resistance gene and kanamycin resistance gene is constructed by inserting the P1 fragment into pGA 22 after digestion with Eco RI andHind III. 2 Construction of recombinant DNA To obtain a recombinant DNA carrying the P1 fragment, the P1 fragment can be directly inserted into a plasmid or phage DNA which has a structural gene coding for growth hormone, insulin, interferon and the like. Furthermore, aDNA transducing vector carrying the P1 fragment can be inserted into such plasmid or phage DNA. Such recombinant DNA can be constructed by making a P1 fragment, a plasmid vector or phage vector and a structural gene independently and combining them in one step or successive steps. In the combining process for the construction of the recombinant DNA, T4DNA ligase is used. One example of such recombinant DNA is a recombinant of the P1 fragment and a phage vector containing a gene for galactosidase. The P1 promoter derived from ribosomal RNA is effective for the expression of ss galactosidase and the promoter activity is more than two times stronger than that of a lactose promoter. A process for constructing such recombinant DNA is as follows. A phage DNA, A459 DNA which is a source of the vector and a phage DNA, RS 205 7 DNA which is a source of the vector and the structural gene1 and the P1 fragment are used. The 459 DNA and XRS 205 7 DNA are digested withEco RI, Hind III and Sal I. The restriction enzyme map is illustrated in Flow Sheet IV wherein the length of phage DNA is illustrated as 100 1 of phage DNA corresponds to about 480 base pairs and the black band means deletion of DNA. As illustrated in Flow Sheet IV, the digestion of 459 DNA with Eco RI gives two DNA fragments of which the fragment at the right hand is named R fragment which corresponds to about 42 of the lDNA The digestion of Rs 205 7 DNA with Hind III gives 7 DJA fragments of which the fragment at the left end is named L fragment which corresponds to about 53 of the DNA. In RS 205 7 of Flow Sheets I and IV, lac Z means a gene for ss galactosidase, Trp A means a gene for tryptophane synthetase A protein, Trp B means 2 gene for tryptophane synthetase 3 protein, lac Z and Trr A mean the presence of the complete structural genes thereof, and Trp B means the presence of a part of the structural gene thereof. The base sequence which relates to the termination of transcription and exists between Trp A and lac Z, that s, terminator, and the base sequence which relates to the initiation of transcription of lac Z, that is, promoter, are eliminated by 2 genetic process. The eliminated region is named Trp Lac fusion and W 205 see Flow Sheet IV is one of the Trp Lac fusions tMitchell et al., J. Mol Biol., 93, 331 1975 . The L fragment carrying Lac Z an Trp A, which is obtained by the digestion of RS 205 7 DNA with Hind III, the R fragment obtained by the digestion of 459 DNA withEco RI and the P1 fragment prepared as above are combined with T4 DNA ligase to make a recombinant DNA of MLfragment Lac Z , Trp A P1 fragment R fragment . A strain ofE. coli is transformed with the recombinant DNA and the transformant is used for the production of ss galactosidase. As shown in the following examples, illustrating specific embodiments of the present invention, the amount of ss galactosidase produced by the transformant is two or more times that of an E. coli strain containing the lactose promoter. This fact illustrates the superiority of theP1 fragment as a promoter.Example 1 In this example a DNA transducing vector carrying the P1 fragment is constructed as follows 1 Preparation of P1 fragment A transducing phage DNA carrying the P1 promoter of ribosomal RNA genes, met A 20 DNA is prepared according to the method described in G. Zubay et al., The LactoseOperon, J. R. Beckwith eds New York Cold Spring harborLaboratory p. 375 391 Vamamoto et al FEBS Letters, 72, 256 1976 Flow Sheet I. The Amet A 20 DNA is digested with a restriction enzyme Eco RI product of Bethesda Research Laboratories Co., hereinafter referred to as B.R.L. and the digest is subjected to purification by agarose gel electrophoresis to obtain a DNA fragment with 1,370 base pairs.The DNA fragment is digested with a restriction enzyme Hind II product of 3.R.L. and a restriction enzymeHind III product of B.R.L. and the digest is again subjected to purification by agarose gel electrophoresis to obtain a P1 fragment with 500 base pairs. Flow Sheet I shows a restriction map around theP1 and P2 promoters of ribosomal RNA on the phage Amet A 20 DNA and the size of eac fragment. F L O W S H E E T I EMI9.1 2 Preparation of P, fragment having a Hind III end 1 Materials The 5 end of Hind III linker d CCAAGCTTGG , product of Collaborative Research Inc. is phosphorylated with ATP and polynucleotide kinase according to a cca ventional method of phosphorylation Nucleic Acid Res., 5, 4479 1978 to obtain phosphorylated Hind III linker. T4 DNA ligase is a product of New EnglandBiolabo Co. 2 Method 1 pg of phosphcrylated Hind III linker and 2 pg of the P1 fragment obtained as above are combined at both blunt ends by incubating with 1 unit of T4 DNA ligase at 40C for 20 hours in the presence of 6.6 mM Tris HCl pH 7.6 , 6.6 mM MgCl2, 1 mM ATP and 10 mM dithiothreitol. The total volume of the reaction solution is 30 pI. The reaction is terminated by heating at 650C for 5 minutes and the reaction solution is digested with 4 units of Hind III and 4 units of Eco RI at 370C for 4 hours. All of the reaction mixture 40 l is charged on a column packed with 2 ml of Sephadex G 100 and elution is car wed out with a mixture of 20 mMTris HCl pH 7.8 , 50 mM NaCl and 10 mM disodium ethylenedia inetetraacetate EDTA concentrations given are the final to remove extra Hind III linker. Then, 0.6 ml I.1 ml to 1.7 ml of fractions are combined and 1.5 ml of ethanol is added. The DNA precipitated is dried and suspended again in 20 mM Tris iCl pH 7.6 to make up 20 pl of a solution.3 Construction of recombinant plasmid 1 Materials The plasmid vector pBR 325 F. Bolivar, Gene 4, 121 1978 prepared according to the method described in P. Guerry et al., J. Bacteriol. 116, 1064 1973 is used. 2 Method With reference to the following Flow Sheet II, 5 pg of pBR 325 is digested with 10 units of Hind III and 10 units of Eco RI at 370C for 2 hours in the presence of 20 mM Tris HCl pH 7.6 , 60 mM NaCl and 7 mM MgCl2 and the reaction is terminated by heating at 65 C for 5 minutes. Then, 0.1 pg of the pBR 325 digested withHind III and Eco RI and 5 l of a solution containing 0.5 pg of the P1 fragment having the Hind III end obtained as above are mixed and 10 l of a solution of 20 rn1 Tris HCl pH 7.6 , 10 mM MgCl2, 10 mM dithiothreitol and 2 mM ATP are added to make up 20 pl of a solution. Then, 0.5 unit of T4 DNA ligase is added to the reaction mixture and the mixture is kept at 40C for 18 hours to make a recombinant plasmid of the P1 fragment and pBR 325. The recombinant plasmid is named pKS 1003. F L O W S H E E T IIEMI12.1 ExamDle 2 In this example, a microorganism is prepared wherein a recombinant plasmid carrying the P1 fragment is introduced. The recombinant plasmid carrying the P1 fragment obtained in Example 1, i.e. DNA transducing vector is introduced into a microorganism in the foliowing manner. Escherichia coli C 600 SF 8 Cameron et al, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci., 72, 3416 1975 is used as a recipient strain and transformation is performed according to S. N. Cohen s method Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci., 69, 2110 1972 . Among the colonies grown on a bouillon agar plate containing 50 pg ml ampicillin, transformants of E coli C 600 SF 8 which carry plasmid pKS 1003 are obtained by selecting a tetracycline resistant TCR and a chloramphenicol sensitive CMS strain, because the parent plasmid pBR 325 carries genes for APR, TCR and GMR and the recombinant plasmid carrying the P1 promoter derived from ribosomal RNA carries genes forAPR, TCR and CM DNAs are prerpared from E. coli C 600 SF 8 APR, TCR, CMS by a convention al method and digested with Eco RI and Hind III. The presence of the 1 fragment 500 base pairs is confirmed by agarose gel electrophoresis, Insofar as the E. coli strain with the recombinant plasmid is TCR and the P1 fragment is generated by the digestion with Eco RI and Hind III , the P1 fragment is inserted in the clockwise direction as shown in Flow Sheet II. The microorganism strain containing the DNA transducing vector obtained in this Example is namedEscherichia coli I 001. The strain has been deposited with the American Type Culture Collection, U.S.A. and has been accorded accession number ATCC 31698. Example 3 In this example, a recombinant DNA carrying theP1 fragment is constructed as follows with reference to the following Flow Sheet III illustrating the processes for constructing the recombinant DNA, and the followingFlow Sheet IV illustrating the restriction maps of X459 DNA, RS 205 7 DNA and the recombinant DNA carrying theP1 fragment. First, 2 g of the phage kRS 205 7 DNA digested with Hind III, S pg of the P1 fragment havingHind III site and Eco RI site at both ends, and 2 pg of 459 DNA digested with Eco RI are mixed in 40 l of a solution containing 50 mM Tris HCl pH 7.6 , 5 mb1 MgC12, 5 mM dithiothreitol and 1 mM ATP. Then, 1 unit of T4 DNA ligase is added and the mixture is allowed to react at 40C for 20 hours. As a result, a recombinant DNA wherein theL fragment of BRS205 7 DNA, P1 fragment and R fragment of 459 DNA combined in this order is obtained The re ombinant DNA carries Lac Z and Trp A on the L agment. Detection of the Lac Z gene ss galactosidase gene on the recomb,nant DNA is performed by subjecting the recombinant DNA to transfection using E. coli Laco z, a mutant strain which has no operator and structural gene for ss galactosidase, as an indicator strain.The phage containing the recombinant DNA is detected as a blue plaque on a bouillon agar plate containing 5 bromo 4 chloro 3 indoyl ss D galactoside The thus obtained phage containing the recombinant DNA is named P1 Lac 1. The presence of the P1 promoter on P1 Lac 1DNA is confirmed by the fact that the P1 fragment 500 base pairs is generated when APl Lac 1 DNA is digested with Hind III and Eco RI. F L O W S H E E T III Phage cloning system EMI15.1 tb X SEP RS 20a SEP SEP L SEP III L SEP Pl SEP A459 SEP C SEP Ps tb L SEP L2 SEP c, SEP SEP tb SEP III SEP Rl tb SEP 2,u SEP .2pq tb SEP Ligation tb SEP Transzection SEP Y,LIS02 SEP r rt tb SEP IL5 3r4CI Ina o, e.pD tb SEP aIactoside tb SEP LacG7 SEP Strin SEP Indicator tb SEP V tb SEP 31ue SEP place tb SEP Lysate SEP 30my tb SEP CCI SEP X tb SEP Phenol SEP Etrttion tb SEP D,zIA tb III Hind IIIIII L Hind III Linker F L O W S H E E T IV EMI16.1 Example 4 In this example, a microorganism strain is prepared wherein a recombinant DNA is introduced An Escherichia coli strain wherein the gene for ss galactosidase is deleted, i.e.Escherichia coliB 2550 Lac O Z Y Trp Y means constitutive property for permease and Trp means requirement for tryptophan is lysogenized with the recombinant phage obtained inExample 3. As a control, a strain lysogenized with A plac 5 which is a phage carrying the lactose operon of E. coli K. Ippen et al., J. Bact., 108, 5 9 1971 is used. The lysogenic strains are inoculated into 2 ml of LB broth wherein 10 g of bactotryptone, 5 g of yeast extract and 5 g of NaCl are dissolved in 1 t of water and the solution is adjusted to pH 7.0 with NaOH and 2 ml of LB broth containing 1 mb1 isopropylthiogalactoside IPTG referred to as LB IPTG broth hereinafter , and cultivated at 30 C for 18 hours. Then, 0.25 ml of the cultures are inoculated into 5 ml of the same brothes and the cultivation is carried out at 300C for 3 hours. When the absorbance at 600 nm OD600 reaches 0.3 to 0.6, ss galactosidase activity of each culture is determined by Miller s method J. H. Miller Experiments in Molecular Genetics, p. 352 1972 , ColdSpring Harbor Laboratory . The results are shown inTable 1. Table 1 galactosidase unit 0D600 Microorganism L B broth LB t rTG broth Parent strain B2550 4 6 B2550 A plac 5 35 1,532 B2550 A P1 Lac 1 4,204 4,260 The results show that the fragment acts as a promoter in the recombinant DNA. moreover, the amount of ss galactosidase produced by B2550 P1 Lac 1 is at least two fold more than that of 32550 Aplac 5 , thus illustrating the improved promoter ability of the P1 fragment over the known promoter. The lysogenic strain with P1 Lac 1 is namedEscherichia coli I 002. The strain has been deposited with the American Type Culture Collection, U.S.A. and accorded accession number ATCC 31699.Example 5 in this example, the production of S galactosidase using recombinant DNA is examined. The lysogenic strain with the recombinant DNA XP1 Lac 1 obtained in Example 4, Escherichia coli I002, is cultured in the following three media to examine the correlation between growth rate and productivity of ss galactosidase. A medium 0.4 Glucose is added to a minimum medium which consists of 6 g l Na2EPO4, 3 g l KH2PO4, 0.5 g l NaCl, 1 g l NH4Cl and 0.1 M CaC12 the same as hereinafter . B medium A minimum medium containing 0.4 glucose and 0.4 casamino acid. C medium An LB broth containing 0.4 glucose.Culturing is carried out at 300C. The results are shown in Fig. 1. The results show the production of ss galactosidase by the lysogenic strain with AP1 Lac 1 increases greatly in a medium wherein the strain grows rapidly which coincides with the information that ribosomal RNA increases in proportion to the growth of the strain N. O. Kjeldgaard J. Mol. Biol, 6, 341 1963 .