# Azo dyes.

## Abstract
Water soluble azo dyes which, in the form of the free acids, contain either one or two groups of the formula ZSO₃H wherein Z represents an oxygen atom or a direct link and either one or two residues of the formula These dyes are valuable for colouring polyamides giving yellow shades with good fastness to light and wet treat ments.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Water soluble azo dyes which, in the form of the free acids, contain either one or two groups of the formula ZSO3H wherein Z represents an oxygen atom or a direct link and either one or two residues of the formula EMI14.1 wherein X represents S or NR1 and each of R and RI, independently, denotes an alkyl radical which nay carry a non aromatic substituent. 2. Dyes as claimed in claim I in which R and R1 are C 1 4 alkyl radicals which are optionally substituted by OHi COOH, COOAlkyl, CN1 OSOfI or SO3H. 3. Dyes as claimed in claims 1 or 2 being monoazo dyes represented by the formula EMI14.2 wherein X, R and Z have the meanings given in claims 1 or 2,A represents the residue of a diazo component and n is 1 or 2. 4. Dyes as claimed in claim 3 having the formula EMI15.1 wherein X, R, Z, A and n have the meanings given in claim 3. 5. Dyes as claimed in claims 3 or 4 in which A is of tne benzene or naphthalene series. 6. Dyes as claimed in claim 1 being disazo dyes represented by the formula EMI15.2 wherein X, R and Z have the meanings given in claim 1, n is 1 or 2 and A1 represents an optionally substituted radical of the azobenzene, azonaphthalene or phenyl azonaphthalene series. 7. Dyes as claimed in claim 1 being disazo dyes represented by the formula EMI16.1 wherein X, R and Z have the meanings given in claim 1, n is 1 or 2 and A2 represents a divalent aromatic radical. 8. A process for the manufacture of dyes as claimed in claim 1 which comprises diazotising an aromatic amine and coupling the resulting diazo compound with a coupling component of the formula EMI16.2 wherein X and R have the meanings given in claim 1, the amine and the coupling component together containing either one or two sulpho or sulphato groups. 9. A process for the manufacture of dyes as claimed in claim 1 in which X is NR which comprises diazotising an aromatic amine and reacting the resulting diazo compound with malonitrile followed by reaction with a dialkyl guanidine salt. 10. A process for the colouration of polyamide textile materials which comprises treating the material with a dyestuff as claimed in claim 1.

## Description
This invention relates to water soluble azo dyes and their application to polyamide textile materials. According to the invention, there are provided watersoluble azo dyes which, in the form of the free acids, contain either one or two groups of the formula ZSO H 3 wherein Z represents an oxygen atom or a direct link and either one or two residues of the formula EMI1.1 wherein X represents S or NRI and each of R and R1, independently, denotes an alkyl . dical which nay carry ry a non aromatic substituent. The radicals represented by R and R1 are preferably lower alkyl radicals, that is to say alkyl radicals containing from one to four carbon atoms. It is often preferred that R and R are unsubstituted or cubstituted by OH, COCH, COOAlkyl,CN, OSO3H or One class of water soluble azo dyes of the invention is the class of monoazo dyes represented by the formula EMI1.2 wherein X, R and Z have the meanings given above, A represents the residue of a diazo component and n is 1 or 2. The symbol A, representing the residue of a diazo component, thus denotes an optionally substituted aromatic cathocyclic or heterocyclic radical. The preferred monoazo dyes have the formula EMI2.1 wherein X,R,Z,A and n have the meanings given above. Those dyes of Formula III which contain a single sulphonic acid group are of greatest value for the coloration of polyamide materials. The aromatic radical rbpresented by A may belong to the benzene or naphthalene series and, in addition to carrying one or two sulpho or sulphato substituents as in Formula III, it may carry other substituents appropriate to diazo components. Examples of such substituents include chlorine, bromine, hydroxy, cyano, nitro, trifluoromethyl, lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, COOR2 whereR2 represents hydrogen or optionally substituted alkyl or aralkyl, CONR3R4 where each of and and R independently, represents hydrogen or optionally substiuted alkyl or aryl, SO2NR5R6 where each ofR5 and R6, independently represents hydrogen or optionally substituted alkyl or aryl, SO2OR where is optionally substituted 8 8 2 R aryl, SO2R where R represents optionally substituted alkyl, aralkyl or aryl, NHR9 where R9 represents alkyl, aralkyl or optionally substituted aryl and NHCOR10 where R10 represents alkyl, aryl, alkoxy, aryloxy, amino, alkylamino or arylamino. AB examples of optionally substituted heterocyclic radicals which may be represented by A there may be mentioned 2 thienyl, 2 thiazolyl, 2 benzthiazolyl, 5 imidazolyl and 5 1,3,4 thiadiazolyl . Another class of dyes within the scope of the invention is the class of disazo dyes represented by the formula EMI3.1 wherein X,R,Z and n have the meanings given above and A1 represents a radical of the azobenzene, azonaphthalene or phenylazonaphthalene series which may carry substituents appropriate to diazo components as indicated above. A further class of dyes of the invention is the class of d sazo dyes represented by the formula EMI3.2 wherein X,R,Z and n have the meanings given above and A2 represents a divalent aromatic radical. The ZSO,H groups are preferably 3n attached to A forming for example a disulphostilbene radical. The dyes of the invention may be prepared by diazotising an aromatic amine and coupling the resulting diazo compound with a coupling component of the formula EMI4.1 wherein X and R have the meanings given above, the amine and the coupling component together containing either one or two suipho or sulphato groups. As examples of types of aromatic amine which may be used in making monoazo dyes, there may be mentioned aniline sulphonic acids toluidine sulphonic acids, anisidine sulphonic acids, chloro or bromo aniline or toluidine sulphonic acids1 dichloro or dibromo aniline sulphonic acids, nitroaniline sulphonic acids, naphthylamine sulphonic acids. sulphonic acids based on 4phenoxysulphonyl aniline, 4 phenylaminosulphonylaniline and 4 benzylsulphonylaniline each of which may carry one or two chlorine substituents, phenoxyaniline sulphonic acid, 2,5 dichloro 4 sulphoethylaminosulphonyl aniline, 2,5 dichloro 4 sulphato ethylaminosuiphonyl aniline, 2,5 dichloro 4 sulphoethylsulphonyl aniline, 2 nitro 4 aminodiphenylamine 4 sulphonic acid, 2 aminothiazole sulphonic acids, 2 aminobenzthiazole sulphonic acids and 2 amino 1,3,4 thiazole 5 sulphonic acid. Examples of amines which may be used in making disazo dyes include 4 aminoazobenzene 4 sulphonic acid and 4,4 diaminostilbene 2,2 disulphonic acid. Examples of coupling components which may be used in making the dyes of the invention include 2 ethylthio 4,6diaminopyrimidine and 2 d iethylamino 4, 6 diamino pyrimidine. The coupling reactions leading to the formation of the dyes of the invention may be performed using conditions that have been fully described in the prior art for such reactions. Similarly, the dyes may be isolated by known methods and, as in the case of other dyes containing sulphonic acid groups,it is often convenient to isolate and use the dyes in the form of their water soluble salts1 particularly their alkali metal or ammonium salts and especially sodium salts. It is to be understood that the invention relates to both the free acids and their salts. The coupling components of formula VI may be obtained by known methods. For example when X is NR1 they may be obtained by reaction of malonitrile with a dialkylguanidine salt or when X is S by the reaction of mnlonitrile with thiourea followed by reaction with an alkyl halide. An alternative process for manufacturing the dyes of the invention in which X is NR1 comprises diazotising an aromatic amine and reacting the resulting diazo compound with malonitrile followed by reaction with a alkyl guanidine salt This alternative process will often give enhanced yields compared with the first process. Typical conditions for the reaction between the diazotised aromatic amine are at e50e in aqueous medium at mildly acid pH e.g. 4.0.The product of this first stage is isolated as an insoluble solid by strong acidification. The second stage i.e.reaction with dialkyl guanidine salt is typically carried out by suspending the first stage product in an alcohol e.g. methanol containing dissolved sodium, adding dialkyl guanidine salt and refluxing. The resulting dyestuff may be isolated by pouring the reaction mixture into water and filtering. The dyes of the invention are suitable for applying to polyamide textile materials such as wool and silk but especially to synthetic polyamide textile materials, for example nylon 66 nylon 6 and nylon 11, using any of the general methods known for the application of acid dyes to such materials. The dyes provide yellow shades having a high degree of fastness to wet treatments and to light. The preferred dyes are those in which X represents sulphur. The invention is illustrated but not limited by the following Examples in which all parts are by weight. Example 7 5 Parts of concentrated hydrochloric acid are added to a solution of 2.64 parts of the sodium salt of 2,5 dichlorosulphanilic acid in 100 parts of water at 20 C. The resulting suspension is cooled to 0 5 C and treated with 0.828 parts of sodium nitrite in 6 parts of water.After stirring at 0 5iC for a further 0.5 hours, excess nitrous acid is decomposed by the addition of 10 aqueous sulphamic acid solution. The diazonium salt suspension is added to a stirred solution of 1.7 parts of 4,6 diamino2 thioethylpyrimidine in 100 parts of acetone at 0 5 C. Saturated sodium acetate solution is added to adjust the pH to 4 5 on completion of coupling the pH is raised to 7 8 by the addition of 8 sodium hydroxide solution. After stirring for 1 hour further, the product is filtered off and dried. 4.55 g of a yellow powder of the formula EMI7.1 which dyes polyamide a bright greenish yellow shade are obtained.Example 2 5 Parts of concentrated hydrochloric acid are added to a solution of 2.64 parts of the sodium salt of 2,5 dichlorosulphanilic acid in 100 parts of water at 200C. The resulting suspension is cooled to 0 5µC and treated with 0.828 parts of sodium nitrite in 6 parts of water.After stirring at 0 5iC for a further 0.5 hours, excess nitrous acid is decomposed by the addition of 10 aqueous sulphamic acid solution. The diazonium salt suspension is added to a stirred solution of 1.81 parts of 4,6 diamino 2 diethylamino pyrimidine in 100 parts of acetone at 0500. Saturated sodium acetate solution is added to adjust the pH to 4 5 on completion of coupling the pH is raised to 7 8 by the addition of 8 sodium hydroxide solution. After stirring for 1 hour further, the product is filtered off and dried. 4.2 g of a yellow powder of the formula EMI8.1 which dyes polyamide a bright greenish yellow shade are obtained. Table 1 gives further Examples of dyes of the invention which are obtained by a process similar to that described in Examples 1 and 2. In the Table, the dyes are identified in columns 2 and 3 respectively by the diazo component which is used in the form of the sodium salt and the substituent XR present in the coupling component. The fourth column gives the shade obtained when the dyes are applied in conventional manner to synthetic polyamide textile materials. Table 1EMI9.1 tb SEP E5t. SEP Diazo SEP component SEP XR SEP Shad SEP e tb SEP 3 SEP 2, SEP 5 dichlorosulphanilic SEP acid SEP N C H, SEP greenS.si tb SEP 2 SEP yellow tb SEP yellow tb SEP 4 SEP xl SEP SGH3 tb SEP 5 SEP ll SEP SGH2COONa tb SEP 2 tb SEP 6 SEP 11 SEP SCH2OH20H SEP ll tb SEP OH tb SEP 7 SEP It SEP SGH2CHGH2CH3 SEP II tb SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 3 tb SEP 8 SEP .. SEP SGH2CH2GN SEP n tb SEP 9 SEP .1 SEP SCH2OH200 SEP C SEP H SEP I tb SEP 225 tb SEP 10 SEP 3 chloro SEP orthanilic SEP acid SEP SC2H tb SEP 25 tb SEP 11 SEP 4 chloro SEP orthlilic SEP acid SEP II SEP i tb SEP 12 SEP 5 chloro SEP orthanilic SEP acid SEP SEP t tb SEP 13 SEP 6 chloro SEP orthanilic SEP acid SEP .. SEP S tb SEP 14 SEP 2 chlorometanilic SEP acid SEP tl SEP ll tb SEP 15 SEP 4 chlorometanilic SEP acid SEP II SEP 1I tb SEP 16 SEP 5 chlorometanilic SEP acid SEP t SEP n tb SEP 17 SEP 6 chlorometanilic SEP acid SEP t, tb SEP 18 SEP 2 chlorosulphanilic SEP acid SEP t SEP II tb SEP 19 SEP 3 chlorosulphanilic SEP acid SEP w SEP rl tb SEP 20 SEP 3,5 dichlorosulphanilic SEP acid SEP SEP l tb SEP 21 SEP 2,9 dihlorosulphanilic SEP acid SEP n SEP n tb SEP 22 SEP 5,6 dichloro SEP orthanilic SEP acid SEP n tb 23 SEP 4, SEP 6 dichlorometanilic SEP acid SEP n SEP I tb SEP 24 SEP 3, SEP 4 dichloro SEP orthanilic SEP acid SEP SEP w tb SEP 25 SEP 5,6dichlorometanilic SEP acid SEP t SEP t tb EMI10.1 tb SEP Ex. SEP Diazo SEP compon SEP ent SEP XR SEP Shade tb SEP 26 SEP 4,5 dichloro SEP orthanilic SEP acid SEP SC2H5 SEP greenish tb SEP yellow tb SEP 27 SEP 3,5 dichloro SEP orthanilic SEP acid SEP SEP tb SEP 28 SEP 4 phenoxysulphonylaniline SEP SEP tb SEP 4 sulphonic SEP acid tb SEP 29 SEP 2 chloro 4 phenoxysulphonyl SEP SEP yellow tb SEP aniline 4 sulphonic SEP acid tb SEP 30 SEP 3 chloro 4 phenoxysulphonyl SEP SEP SEP n SEP tb SEP aniline 4 SEP sulphonic SEP acid tb SEP 31 SEP 2,5 dichloro 4 phenoxy SEP SEP tb SEP sulphonylaniline 4 SEP SEP tb SEP sulphonic SEP acid tb SEP 32 SEP 4 phenylaminosulphonyl SEP SEP greenish tb aniline 4 sulphonic SEP acid SEP yellow tb SEP 33 SEP 2,5 dichloro 4 phenylamino SEP II SEP yellow tb SEP sulphor.ylaniline 4 SEP SEP tb SEP sulphonic SEP acid tb SEP 34 SEP 4 4 methylphenylamino SEP SEP greenish tb SEP sulphonyl aniline 2 SEP yellow tb SEP sulphonic SEP acid tb SEP 35 SEP N 4 amino 2,5 dichloro SEP SEP yellow tb SEP phenylsulphonyl 2 amino tb SEP ethanesulphonic SEP acid tb SEP 36 SEP 2 chloro 4 phenylamino SEP SEP SEP II SEP tb SEP sulphonylaniline 4 tb SEP SEP sulphonic SEP acid tb SEP 37 SEP 3 chloro 4 phenylamino SEP SEP II tb SEP sulphonylaniline 4 tb SEP sulphonic SEP acid tb SEP 38 SEP 2 amino 1,3 benzthiazole SEP SEP reddish tb SEP 5 sulphonic SEP acid SEP yellow tb SEP 39 SEP 2,6 dichiorosulphanilic SEP acid SEP .. SEP SEP greenish tb SEP yellow tb SEP 40 SEP 4,5 dichlorometanilic SEP acid SEP SEP n tb SEP 41 SEP 4,6 dichloro SEP orthanilic SEP acid SEP SEP 1 SEP w SEP tb EMI11.1 tb Ex. SEP Diazo SEP Component SEP XR SEP Shade tb 42 SEP 2,5 dichlorosulphanilic SEP acid SEP S.CH2CO2.C2H5 SEP greenish SEP yellow tb 43 SEP SEP S.CH2CH2CH2CH3 SEP tb 44 SEP SEP S.CH CH3 2 SEP tb 45 SEP SEP S.CH2CH2CH3 SEP tb 46 SEP orthanilic SEP acid SEP S.C2H5 SEP tb 47 SEP metanilic SEP acid SEP SEP tb 48 SEP sulphanilic SEP acid SEP SEP tb 49 SEP N 4 amino 3 chlorophenyl SEP SEP SEP II SEP tb SEP sulphonyl 2 aminoethane tb SEP sulphonic SEP acid tb 50 SEP N 4 amino 2 chlorophenyl SEP SEP SEP SEP IS SEP tb SEP sulphonyl 2 aminoethane tb SEP sulphonic SEP acid tb 51 SEP N 4 aminophenylsulphonyl SEP SEP tb SEP 2 aminoethane SEP sulphonic SEP acid tb 52 SEP 2,5 dichloroaniline SEP S.CH2CH2.SO3H SEP tb 53 SEP 2 chloroaniline SEP SEP Ir SEP tb 54 SEP 4 ethylaminosulphonyl 2,5 SEP tl SEP SEP tb SEP dichloroaniline tb 55 SEP 2 methylaniline 4 SEP SC2H SEP SEP tb SEP sulphonic SEP acid tb 56 SEP 2 ethylanilin SEP e 4 SEP li SEP II tb SEP sulphonic SEP acid tb 57 SEP 2 methoxyaniline 4 SEP SEP tb SEP sulphonic SEP acid tb 58 SEP 2 ethoxyaniline 4 SEP SEP tb SEP sulphonic SEP acid tb 59 SEP 2 cyanoaniline 4 SEP SEP tb SEP sulphonic SEP acid tb 60 SEP 2 trifluoromethylaniline 4 SEP SEP TI SEP tb SEP sulphonic SEP acid tb EMI12.1 tb Ex. SEP Diazo SEP Component SEP XR SEP Shade tb 61 SEP 2 nitroaniline 4 SEP SC2H5 SEP greenish tb SEP sulphonic SEP acid SEP yellow tb 62 SEP 2 methoxycarbonylaniline SEP SEP SEP SI SEP tb SEP 4 sulphonic SEP acid tb 63 SEP 2 2 hydroethylcarbonyl SEP IT SEP SEP tb SEP aniline SEP 4 SEP sulphonic SEP acid tb 64 SEP 2 aminocarbonylaniline 4 SEP SEP TI SEP tb SEP sulphonic SEP acid tb 65 SEP 2 N methylaminocarbonyl SEP SEP SEP II SEP tb SEP aniline 4 sulphonic SEP acid tb 66 SEP 2,5 dichlorosulphanilic SEP acid SEP N CH2CH2CH2CH3 2 tb 67 SEP 51 SEP N CH2CH2CH 2 SEP II tb Example 68 This Example describes the alternative process employed to produce the dyestuff of Example 2. 132 parts of 2,5 dichlorosulphanilic acid sodium salt in 500 parts hot water is treated with 875 parts 2N HCl the resulting precipitate is cooled to 0 5 and 260 parts 2N NaN02 solution added. After 0.5 hours1 excess nitrite is decomposed, and the resulting suspension added to a solution of 33 parts malonitrile in 500 parts water, with adjustment to pH 4 with sodium acetate trihydrate. The mixture, initially at 0 5 is allowed to warm to room temperature overnight, taken to pH 0.5 with ccncentrated HC1 and the resulting solid filtered. Re suspension in 74 OP EtOH, filtration and drying gives 149.2 parts of a pale yellow powder believed to have the formula EMI13.1 35.5 parts of the product of the above reaction is added to a solution of 6.9 parts sodium in 300 parts methanol and 16.4 parts of diethyl guanidine sulphate added. The mixture is refluxed for 24 hours, a further 16.4 parts of diethyl guanidine sulphate added and reflux continued for a total of 55 hours. The reaction mixture is drowned in water and the deposited yellow solid filtered off and dried to give 41.5 parts of a product essentially similar to the dye obtained in Example 2.