# Sultines a process for producing these a process for producing sulfoxides a process for producing sparsomycin and related compounds.

## Abstract
The invention provides novel sultines which are functionalized and satisfy formula 1, in particular formula 2. The invention also provides a particular process for producing such sultines from compounds having formula 4 or 5, and a process for producing compounds having formula 8, in particular formula 9, by stereo specific ring opening of such sultines. The invention further provides an efficient chemical route for producing sparsomycin and related compounds.

## Claims
C L A I M S 1. Sultines having formula 1 of the sheet of formulae, whereinX1 O or NH, yl H or a. protective group, m 1. or 2, n 1 or 2, and salts thereof. 2. Sultines according to claim 1, satisfying formula 2, whereinYÚ H, t.butyloxycarbonyl or benzyloxycarbonyl, and acid addition salts thereof, wherein YÚ H. 3. Diastereomers of sultines according to claim 1 or 2. 4. Sultine S R diastereomerhaving formula 3, wherein c SYÚ , B, t.butyloxycarbonyl or benzyloxycarbonyl, and acid addition salts thereof, in which YÚ H. 5. A. process for preparing sultines according to one or more of claims 1 4, characterized by reacting a compound having formula 4, whereinX O or NB, yl a protective group,Yê H or a group removable by oxidation,Y H or a group removable by oxidation, m 1 or 2, n 1 or 2, or the dimer having formula 5, wherein the symbols have the above meanings, in the presence of a weakly nucleophilic oxygen donor, with an oxidant comprising an oxidatively active part and a weakly nucleophilic counter ion, and if desired removing the protective group Y , or replacing it by a different protective group, and if desired separating the resulting mixture of diastereomers by column chromatography. 6. A process according to claim 5, characterized by using as the oxidant N chloro or N bromo succinimide, N chlorobenztriazole, hypochlorous acid or tert.alkyl hypochlorite. 7. A process according to claim 6, characterized by using as the oxidant N chloro or N bromo succinimide. 8. A process according to any of claims 5 7, characterized by using as said oxygen donor a carboxylic acid, carboxylic acid anhydride, alcohol, or water. 9. A process according to claim 8, characterized by using as the oxygen donor acetic acid or acetic acid anhydride 10. A process according to any of claims 5 9, characterized in that an excess of oxygen donor serves as a solvent. 11. A process according to any of claims 5 10, characterized by using an inert solvent. 12. A process according to claim 11, characterized by using as the solvent or as a solvent component an aromatic hydrocarbon, such as benzene or a halogenated hydrocarbon, such as CH2C12, CHCl3, CC14, CE2Br2 etc. 13. A process according to any of claims 5 12, characterized by using a stereoisomer of a compound having formula 4 or 5. 14. A process according to any of claims 5 13, characterized by using a compound having formula 6, wherein YIY t.butyloxycarbonyl or benzyloxycarbonyl, or the dimer thereof. 15. A process according to claim 14, characterized by using a com pound having formula 6 or the dimer thereof, wherein al 1 is t.butyloxy carbonyl, and the reaction is carried out in the presence of a nonnucleophilic base, such as pyridine or a trialkylamine. 16. A process according to claim 14,or 15, characterized by using the S stereoisomer having formula 7 or the dimer thereof. c 17. A process according to any of claims 5 16, characterized in that the resulting mixture of S and R sultine diastereomers is separated S S by column chromatography. 18. A process for preparing compounds having formula 8, whereinX O or NH, yl E or a protective group,R1 , alkyl, acyl, or a protective group, 2R a nucleophmQic group, m 1 or 2, n 1 or 2, characterized by reacting a sultine having formula 1, wherein Y represents a protective group and the other symbols have the meanings specified in claim 1, at low temperatures and in an inert atmosphere with an organo lithium compound LIR in a solvent conventional for carb anion reactions at low temperatures, and if desired providing the alcohol function with a protective group or etherifying or esterifying it, and if desired removing the protective group Y or replacing it by a different protective group. 19. A process according to claim 18, characterized in that Rê is selected from alkyl, alkoxyalkyl, alkoxyaryl, alkylthioalkyl, alkylthio aryl, alkylthio oxoalkyl, alkylthio oxoaryl, alkylthio dioxoalkyl, and alkylthiodioxoaryl. 20. A process according to claim 18 or 19, characterized by using a mixture of sultine diastereomers and separating the resulting mix ture of S and R diastereomers of the compound having formula 8 by S column chromatography. 21. A process according to claim 18 or 19, characterized by using a specific sultine diastereomer. 22. A process according to any of claims 18 21, characterized by preparing a compound having formula 9 by starting from a sultine having formula 2, wherein al 1 t.butyloxycarbonyl or benzyloxycarbonyl. 23. A process according to claim 22, characterized by preparing the S R diastereomer having formula 10. c S 24. A process for preparing sparsomycin and related compounds having formula 11, wherein RÚ H, alkyl, acyl, and Rê has the meanings specified in claim 19, which comprises reacting a compound having formula 12 or a suitable derivative thereof with a compound having formula 9, wherein YÚ B and R and R2 have the meanings specified, said compound being produced by the process according to claim 22 or 23. 25. A process according to claim 24, characterized by preparing one of the trans diastereomers S R , S S , R R , R S of the compound hav c 5 c 5 c S c 5 ing formula 11 by starting from the corresponding diastereomer of the compound having formula 9, and if desired converting the resulting transdiastereomer into the cis diastereomer by irradiation. 26. A process according to claim 25, characterized by preparing trans Sc Rs spersomycin having formula 13.

## Description
Title Sultines a process for preparing these a process for producing sulfoxides a process for producing sparsomycin and related compounds. This invention relates to sultines and a process for producing these. The invention also relates to a process for producing sulf oxides and to a process for producing sparsomycin and related compounds. A limited number of sultines are known. A survey of known sultines is to be found in N.K. Sharma et al., Can. J. Chem. 1976, 54, 3012. In E.N. Givens et al., J. Org. Chem. 1967, 32, 2857, sultines are described having formula 18, in which the phenyl group may be substituted by one or two chlorine atoms. Sultines having formula 19 are known from R.M. Dodson et al.,J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Common 1968, 9. These publications describe a processs for the production of sultines in which l mercapto propanol 3 compounds are reacted with C12 and excess acetic acid. The present invention provides functionalized sultines having formula 1, wherein X O or NH y1 H or a protective group m 1 or 2 n 1 or 2 and salts thereof. In particular, the invention provides sultines having formula 2 wherein al 1 H, t butyloxycarbonyl BOC or benzyloxycarbonyl Cbo and acid addition salts thereof, wherein yl 1 H. These new compounds contain 2 chiral i.e. asymmetric atoms, namely, a chiral C atom and a chiral S atom. The invention comprises both mixtures of sultine diastereomers and the individual diastereomers. These new sultines have a number of important and surprising properties As a result of their chiral character, in which they are sharply distinguished from the corresponding lactones, the sultine ring can be opened in a diastereo selective manner. As a result of the particular ring structure, the ring oxygen atom i.e. the alcohol function is protected by the sulphur atom, and the sulphur atom is rendered accessible by the ring oxygen atom for a nucleophilic attack. These properties make the sultines according to the invention excellently suitable as starting materials for the production of interesting chemical compounds, in particular for the production of certain diastereomers of such compounds.In this connection one important advantage of the sultines according to the invention is that the sultine diastereomers can very easily be separated from each other on account of their exceedingly large difference in polarity, for example by column chromatography. A further advantageous property of the sultines according to the invention is that each diastereomer can readily be epimerized to a mixture of diastereomers, for example, by heating at approximately 1300C, or by other means. Thus one of the sultine diastereomers, e.g. S S , can be c s treated with two equivalents of NaOCE3 in CH3OH, to produce a 1 1 mixture of the starting diastereomer S S and the diastereomer S R c s c s One possible explanation of this epimerization is a transesterification reaction of the S R methylsulfinate ester produced by ring opening to c S the corresponding S S methylsulfinate ester and ring closure thereof. c sThus the undesired diastereomer isolated by column chromatography can be converted into a mixture containing the desired diastereomer, from which mixture a further quantity of the desired diastereomer can be recovered by separation. By repeating epimerization and separation the yield of the desired diastereomer can be maximized. The sultine S R diastereomer having formula 3, in which yl 1 c s H, BOC or Cbo, and acid addition salts thereof, in which Y H, is particularly preferred, because it can be used for preparing S R c s sparsomycin having formula 13, a well known medicament having strong anti tumor and antibiotic properties moreover, this compound plays a central role in research into the protein biosynthesis inhibition. The invention further provides a particular process for producing the sultines according to the invention, which process is characterized by reacting a compound. having formula 4, wherein X O or NH, yl a protective group, Yê H or a group removable by oxidation, Y H or a group removable by oxidation, m 1 or 2, n 1 or 2, or the dimer having formula 5, wherein the symbols have the above meanings, in the presence of a weakly nucleophilic oxygen donor, with an oxidant comprising an oxidatively active moiety and a weakly nucleophilic counter ion, and if desired removing the protective group Y , or replacing it by a different protective group, and if desired separating the resulting mixture of diastereomers by column chromatography. In the starting compounds having formulae 4 and 5, Yê is preferably H, but may also represent a group that is removed by the oxidation reaction, for example, methylthiomethyl and tetxahydropyranyl. In the starting compounds having formula 4, Y is preferably , but may also represent a group that is removed by the oxidation reaction, e.g. S alkyl, tert.alkyl, benzyl, alkyl and or alkoxysubstituted benzyl, trityl and allyl. The preferred oxidant in this process is N chloro succinimide NCS , N bromo succinimide NBS , N chloro benztriazole, hypochlorous acid BOC1 or tert. dkylLhypochlorite, in particular tert.butyl oC1. Of these, NCS and NBS are most preferred NCSbecause it is relatively stable, easy to handle and inexpensive, NBS because a larger quantity than the stoichiometricproportion can be used without adverse effects. According to the invention, the preferred oxygen donor is a carboxylic acid, carboxylic acid anhydride, alcohol, or water. Preferably, acetic acid or acetic acid anhydride is used, preferably in excess, so that it can also serve as a solvent. It is also possible, however, to use an inert solvent, such as an aromatic hydrocarbon, e.g. benzene, or a halogenated hydrocarbon, e.g. CB2C12, CHCl3, CC14, CH2Br2, etc. as the only solvent or as a solvent component. The reaction conditions, that is to say temperature and pressure, are not particularly critical. Preferably, however, the reaction is carried out at room temperature without cooling and at atmospheric pressure. Preferably the mixture is thoroughly stirred during the reaction. As, generally speaking, it will be desirable to produce a specific sultine diastereomer, the preferred starting product is a specific stereoisomer of the compound having formula 4 or 5, that is to say, the Rc or the Sc stereoisomer. As stated before, the resulting mixture o R and S sultines can easily be separated. s s In a particularly preferred embodiment of the invention, the starting product is a compound having formula 6, in which Y BOC orCbo, or the dimer thereof. These compounds can be prepared in a manner known per se from D and or L cystin or cystein by esterification with thionyl chloride and alcohol, e,g. methanol gives the methyl ester , introducing the N protective group, e.g. by means of N carbobenzoxy O N phthalimide or di tert.butyl pyrocarbonate1 reduction with LiBH4 and oxidation with 12. When the protective group Y in the compound having formula 6 of the dimer thereof represents the tert.butyloxycarbonyl group, which under certain conditions is preferred, the reaction is preferably carried out in the presence of a non nucleophtlic base, such as pyridine or a trialkylamine,. e.g. triethylamane. This prevents the removal of the acidlabile BOC group.This applies generally when using compounds having formula 4 or 5, if y is an acid labile group. The reaction is preferably carried out using stoichiometric quantities of the reaction components, except for the oxygen donor, which is preferably used in excess for it to serve as a solvent. Stoichiometric quantities means that 3 equivalents of oxygen preferably NCS orNBS are used per 2 equivalents of starting compound having formula 4 or 5 or per equivalent dimer thereof. If the oxidant is NCS, an excess thereof leads to the formation of compounds having formula 14, presumably owing to cleavage of the C bond in the sultine ring. On the other hand, when NBS is used in excess, such compounds are not formed in detectable quantities. As will be elucidated hereinafter, under certain conditions the use of the S stereoisomer having formula 7 or the dimer thereof c is preferred. This results in a mixture of the sultine diastereomers S S and S R , from which, by virtue of the large difference in Rf c S c s value, the sultine diastereomer S R having formula 3 can be recover c S ed in a simple manner by column chromatography. By epimerizing the isolated S S diastereomer and separating the resulting mixture by c s column chromatography, and if desired repeating this, the yield of S R diastereomer can be optimized. This diastereomer is a suitable start S ing compound for the production of the medicament S R sparsomycin. c s The above prior process for producing sultines, using 3 equivalents C12 and excess acetic acid produces from the starting compounds having formula 4 or 6, or the dimers thereof, the undesirable product having formula 14. When SO2Cl2 is used, instead of Cl21 an undesirable result is obtained, too. According to the invention, therefore,the se lection of a suitable oxidant and, possibly, the proportion in which it is used, is essential for producing the desired sultine in a good yield. According to another aspect of the invention, it has been found that the sultines according to the invention can be converted by stereospecific opening of the O S bond into sulfoxides, which are useful starting compound for the preparation of interesting chemical compounds, in particular for the preparation of certain diastereomers of such compounds.This nucleophilic ring opening reaction proceeds with inversion, that is to say, reversal of the chirality of the sulphur atom. The invention accordingly provides a process for producing compounds having formula 8, wherein X 0 or NH, YÚ H or a protective group, RÚ H, alkyl, acyl, or a protective group, R2 is a nucleophilie group, m 1 or 2, and n 1 or 2, said process being characterized by reacting a sultine having formula 1, wherein yl represent a protective group, and the other symbols have the meanings specified in claim 1, at low temperatures and in an inert atmosphere, with an organolithium compound LiRê in a solvent conventional for carb .anion reactions at low temperatures, and if desired providing the alcohol function with a protective group or etherifying or esterifying it, and if desired removing the protective group Y or replacing it by a different protective group. Preferably, R2 is selected from the group consisting of alkyl, alkoxyalkyl, alkoxyaryl, alkyl thioalkyl, akyl thioaryl, alkyl thio oxoalkyl, alkyl thio oxoaryl, alkyl thio dioxoalkyl, and alkyl thio dioxo acryl. In these compounds, the alkyl groups are preferably lower alkyl groups containg 1 8 carbon atoms, more preferably 1 4 carbon atoms, and most preferably 1 2 carbon atoms. For that matter, a process for the nucleophilic opening of the sultine ring is known per se. That process, however, concerns nonfunctionalized sultines, and does not employ organo lithium compounds Thus, according to W.H. Pickle et al.,. J. Am. Chem. Soc 1976, 98, 1832, a Grignard reagents used, while according to D.N. Harpp et al., J.Org Chem. 1976, 41, 3987, organo copper lithium compounds are used. These known reagents turn out to be unsuitable for realizing an efficient nucleophilic and stereospecific ring opening of the functionalized sultines according to the present invention. Furthermore, the use of organo lithium compounds, in particular alkyl thiomethyl lithium, is known from L. Colombo et al., Tet. Letters 1978, 3861. That publication, however, is concerned with the stereospecific production of optically active dithioacetal monosulfoxides from noncyclic optically active sulfinate esters. The process according to the invention is carried out under conditions conventional for carbanion reactions, that is to say, beginning at low temperatures in the order of 90 to 6O0C, and at atmospheric pressure not critical in a conventional solvent, e.g. alkanes, such as hexane, ethers, such as tetrahydrofuran, in an inert atmosphere, for example argon or nitrogen, to prevent the presence of water, oxygen and carbon dioxide. Preferably the mixture is stirred well during the reaction.To produce a high yield and purity, it is desirable for the reaction mixtures to be acidified rapidly after completion of the reaction According to one embodiment of this process according to the invention, a mixture of sultine diastereomers is used, and the resulting mixture. of S R diastereomers of the compound having formula 8 is ss separated by column chromatography. Under certain conditions, this method may be preferred. This may in particular be the case if the diastereomers of the compound having formula 8 in question exhibit a large difference in Rf value, and if successful. epimerization of the undesireble diastereomer is possible, for example,by using acid conditions. Mostly, however, the use of a specific sultine diastereomer will be preferred, because the sultine diastereomer can at any rate quite easily be separated, and successful epimerization of the undesirable diastereomer is possible, while the reaction with R Li is stereospecific, that is to say, no trace of the corresponding diastereomers is found. In a preferred embodiment of the invention, a compound having formula 9 is prepared by starting from a sultine having formula 2 in which YÚ BOC or Coo. In particular if YÚ Cbo, the alcohol function of the compound having formula 9 is preferably provided with a protective group, e.g. the tetrahydropyranyl group. Preferably, the S R diastereomer having formula 10 is pre c S pared, as this known per se compound is a suitable starting material for the production of the medicament S R sparsomycin. c s According to another aspect of the invention, it has been found that the new functionalized sultines according to the invention make possible a novel and efficient chemical route for producing sparsomycin and related compounds. Sparsomycin CS Rs is a metabolite of Streptomyces sparsogenes c S and Streptomyces cuspidosporus. It is active against several tumors, bacteria, fungi and viruses and is of great importance to research into the inhibition of protein biosynthesis. Natural sources only give a limited accessibility, and fail to give strudurally related compounds that may be of great significance in connection with their properties and or for research purposes. For these reasons, there is a great need for a flexible chemical overall synthesis.Two chemical overall syntheses have meanwhile been disclosed. Thus P. Helquist et al., J. Am Chem. Soc. 1979, 101, 1057, describe a process for preparing sparsomycin, which comprises preparing, starting from D cystein, an a sulfinyl carbanion having formula 15, which by sulphenylation with CH3S 2 is converted into a mono oxo dithio acetal having formula 9, in which YÚ and RÚ are protective groups and Rê represents methyl thiomethyl, and from which, after the removal of the protective groups, sparsomycin is produced by reaction with the compound having formula 12. Another process for producing sparsomycin is described by H.C.J. Ottenheijm, R.M.J. Liskamp et al., J. Org. Chem. 1981, 46, 3273.In it, starting from D cystein, a cysteinol a halosulfoxide having for mula 16 is produced, which is reacted with sodium methyl mercaptide CH3SNa to form the mono oxo dithio acetal having formula 9, in which and R1 are protective groups and R2 represents methyl thiomethyl, which compound, after the removal of the protective groups, is reacted with the compound having formula 12. The present invention provides a process for producing sparsomycin and related compounds having formula 12, in which R1 , alkyl, acyl and R2is selected from alkyl, alkoxyalkyl, alkoxyaryl, alkyl thioalkyl, alkyl thioaryl, alkylthio oxoalkyl, alkylthio oxoaryl, alkylthiodioxoalkyl and alkylthio dioxoaryl, and which comprises reacting a compound having formula 12, or a suitable derivative thereof, with a com pound having formula 9, wherein YÚ 1 H and R1 and R2 have the above meanings, said compound being produced by the process according to claim 22 or 23. Preferably, according to the invention, a sultine having formula 2 is prepared by the process according to one or more of claims 5 17, from this a compound having formula 9 is prepared by the process according to oe ox more of claims 18 23, the protective group yl is removed, and thereafter a reaction with the compound having formula 12 or a suitable derivative thereof is carried out. Preferably the procedure is such that one of the transdiastereomers Sc Rs, Sc Ss, Rc Rs, Rc Ss of the compound having formula 11 is prepared by starting from the corresponding diastereomer of the compound having formula 9, and that the resulting trans diastereomer is, if desired converted into the cis diastereomer by irradiation. Preferably, trans S R sparsomycin having formula 13 is prepared. The last step of the total synthesis according to the invention, namely, the reaction of the amino alcohol mono oxo dithioaceta1 having formula 10 or stereomers thereof with the compound having formula 12, is known per se, for example, from the above publication by H,C,J, Ottenheijm, R.M.J. Liskamp et al. The contents of that publication, in which, among other things, the removal of the protective groupYÚ and the preparation of the compound having formula 12 are disclosed, is inserted herein by reference. The route according to the invention to sparsomycin and related compounds has a number of decisive advantages as compared with the known routes described above. First of all, one can dispense with the introduction and subsequent removal of a protective group for the hydroxyl function Yê in formulae 15 and 16 . As a result, the required number of steps is smaller. Moreover, each new step by itself is better than the comparable steps in the known routes. Furthermore, a very important advantage resides in the possibility of effecting a good separation of the diastemomers, and optimizing the yield by epimerization on the S atom of the undesirable diastereomer. The invention will be explained in more detail by means of the examples. Beforehand, the following can be stated about the methods of analysis and separation used. E NMR spectra were measured on Varian Associates Model T 60 or a Bruker WH 90 spectrometer using TMS or tert.butanol as the internal standard. Unless stated otherwise, CDC13 was used as the solvent. 13C NMR spectra were measured on a Bruker WP 60 spectrometer. IR spectra were measured using a Perkin Elber spectrophotometer, model 997 and W spectra on a Perkin Elber spectrophotometer, model 555. The specific rotation was determined using a Perkin Elder polarimeter model 241. Circular dichroism spectra were measured using a Dichrograph II apparatus Roussel Jouan, France . Mass spectra were obtained with a double focusing VarianAssociates SMI B spectrometer. Melting points were determined on a Kofler melting point apparatus Leitz Wetzlar and were not corrected. Thin layer chromatography TLC was carried out using Merck silicagel F 254 plates having athickness of 0.25 mm. The following solvent systems were used A methanol CH2Cl2, 1 9 v v B methanol CH2Cl2, 6 94 v v C methanol CH2Cl2, 4 96 v v D methanol CE2C12, 3 97 v v Spots were visualized with a W lamp, iodine vapour, ninhydride or Cl2 TDM. For column chromatography, Merck silicagel E type 60 was used. The miniprep LC Jobin Yvon was used for preparative EPLC. Example I a Preparation of N benzyloxycarbonyl D cystinol To a stirred, cooled 780C solution of sodium borohydride 6.81 g, 180 mmol and lithium iodide 24.09 g, 180 mmol in 6Oinl of dry dimethoxyethane DME , N benzyloxycarbonyl D cystin methyl ester 16.1 g, 30 mmol was added in one portion, the ester being prepared in the manner described by E.L.Gustus, J.Org.Chem 1967, 32, 3425. The reaction mixture was allowed to rise in temperature to room temperature, and was then stirred until the reaction was complete, as monitored by TLC solvent system A . The solution was neutralized to pH 7 with an aqueous solution of 1N ECI with ice cooling. Stirring was continued for 1 hour at room temperature, after which time the volume was reduced to one half. A methanbtic solution of 0.1 M iodine and 0.2 M pyridine was added until a faint yellow colour of iodine persisted. The excess of iodine was destroyed by adding a few crystals of Na2S205. After the evaporation of DME and methanol in vacuo, water and dichloromethane were added. The aqueous layer was extracted three times with dichloromethane and twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were dried over Na2SO4, and the solvent was evaporated in vacuo. After recrystallization of the residue from ethyl acetate, 12.53 g yield 87 of the N benzyloxycarbonyl Dcystinol was obtained. This material was homogenous on TLC Rf 0.17, solvent system B . NMR CD3OD 2.67 3.13 m, 2H,CH S , 2.63 br.d, 2H, CH2O 3.80 4.10 m,1H, CHCH2 , 5.07 s,2H,C6H5CH 2 , 7.32 s,5H,C6H5 IR KBr 3300, 1695, 1 168Q, 1535 cm Anal. calculated for C22B28N2O6S2 S2 C 54.98 H 5.87 N 5.83. Found C 55.27 H 5.84 N 5.65.b Preparation of 4 N benzyloxycarbonyl amino 1, 2 oxathiolane 2 oxide. To a stirred solution of N benzyloxycarbonyl D cystinol 4.80 g, 10 mmol in 100 ml glacial acetic acid, a solution of N chlorosuccinimide 4.01 g, 30 mmol in 150 ml glacial acetic acid was added dropwise at room temperature. The reaction mixture was stirred overnight. After completion of the reaction, as monitored by TLC solvent system B , the acetic acid was evaporated in vacuo at room temperature. The residue was dissolved in 400 ml di chloromethane and 15 ml water. The organic layer was separated and dried, and the solvent evaporated in vacuo. The residue was dried and then chromatographed over silica eluent methanol CH2C2, 0.5 99.5 v v , to yield Sc R sultine 45 and S S sultine 45 . Cs The synthesis of these sultines with N bromosuccinimide 3 equivalents or more was carried out as described above. After evaporation of acetic acid, residual bromine was removed by dissolving the residue in methanol and evaporating the solvent in vacuo this treatment was repeated twice. Column chromatography of the residue gave the S R Cs sultine 43 yield and the Sc Ss sultine 43 yield . S R Cbo sultine melting point 87 C AcOEt hexane R 0,43 solvent sys Cs tem B NMR 63z24 and 3.07 AB part of ABX spectrum, 8 lines, 13.9 Hz, J X 6.2 Hz, JBX 2.4 Hz, 2H, CH2S O , 4.38 4.52 and 4.62 4.88 m, 3H,CHCH2O , 5.09 s,2H,C6H5CH2 , 5.45 br.d,1H,NH , 7.33 s.5H, C6H5 IR kBr 3310, 1720, 1530, 1110 cm exact mass calculated for 11H13NO4S 255.147.Found 255.149 Analysis calculated for C11H13NO4S C 51.75 H 5.13 N 5.49. Found C 51.89 H 5.11 N 5.35. S S Cbo sultine Rf 0.64 solvent system B NMR 62.91 and 3.20 AB part of ABX spectrum, 8 lines, JAB 13.9 Hz, JAX 6.2 Hz, JBX 2,4 Hz, 2H, CH2S O , 4.58 and 4.75 AB part of ABX spectrum, 8 lines,JAB 9.6 Hz, JAX 5.7 Hz, JBX 1.9 Hz, 2H, CH2O , 4.98 m, 1H, CHCH2O , 5.10 s,2H,C6H5CH 2 , 6.36 br.d,1H,NH , 7.33 s,5H,C6H5 IR kBr 3320, 1690, 1545, 1108cm 1 exact mass calculated for C11H13NO4S 255.147. Found 255.147 Anal. calculated for C11H13NO4S C 51.75 H 5.13 N 5.49.Found C 51.42 H 5.20 N 5.35. Comparative example 1Preparation of 3 chloro 2 N benzyloxycarbonyl amino 1 propane sulfonyl chloride. To a stirred solution of N benzyloxyzarbonyl D cystinol 1.44 g, 3 mmol in 40 ml glacial acetic acid, a solution of chlorine 1.59 g, 22 mmol in 15 ml dry, ethanol free dichloromethane was added in small portions at room temperature. After completion of the addition, the reaction mixture was stirred for two hours at room temperature, after which time the excess of chlorine was removed by a stream of argon.Evaporation of the solvent at room temperature in vacuo gave the title compound in a yield of 78 .Rf 0.25 solvent system B NMR 3.67 4.00 m,2H,CH2SO2Cl , 4.00 4.10 br.d,2H,CH2Cl , 4.44 4.82 m,1H,CHCH2Cl , 5.13 s,2H,C6H5CH2 , 5.59 br.d, 1H,NH , 7.35 s,5H,C6H5 IR nujol 3340, 1695, 1380, 1360, 1350, 1175 ca mass spectrum, m e 325, 327, 329 M . Example II a Preparation of N tert butyloxycarbonyl p cystionol N tert.butyloxycarbonyl D cystine methylester 7.03 g, 14 mmol , prepared in the manner described by B.C.J. Ottehheijm, R.M.J. Liskamp,et al., in J.Org.Chem. 1981, 46, 3273, was reduced with lithium borohydride 3.41 g, 90 mmol sodium borohydride and 12.05 g, 90 mmol lithium iodide in 200 ml dry DME in the manner described in Example Ia. Processing was modified, however, due to the acid lability of the N protecting group.pH was adjusted to 5 by addition of aqueous 1N KHSO4 to the stirred and cooled 0 C solution. Sometimes a sticky mass precipitated before nen tralization was complete. In that case the solvent was evaporated in vacuo, the residue was dissolved in methanol water 1 1, v v , and the neutralization was then completed. The oxidation with. iodine was carried out as described in Example Ia. Thereafter the methanol was evaporated in vacuo, and water and ethyl acetate were added. The aqueous phase was extracted five times with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were washed with brine and dried over Na2SO4, and the solvent was evaporated in vacuo.The residue was re crystalized from methanol water, to produce N tert.butyloxycarbonyl Dicystionol in a yield of 87 melting point 124 1250C Rf 0.23 solvent system A NMR CD3OD 61.41 s,9H,t Bu , 2.85 d,2H,CH2S , 3.46 4.05 m,3H,CHCH2 IR kBr 3360, 3600 3100, 1685, 1525 cm 1 Anal. calculated for C16H32N2O6S2 C 46.58 E 7.82 N 6.79. Found C 46.78 E 7.92 N 6.87.b Preparation of 4 N tert.butyloxycarbonyl amino 1,2 oxathiolane 2 oxide A solution of N chlorosuccinimide .01 g, 30 mmol in 150 ml of glacial acetic acid was added dropwise to a solution of N tert.butyl oxycarbonyl D cystinol 4.12 g, 10 mmol and pyridine 2.4 g, 30 mmol in 100 ml glacial acetic acid. Following the procedure as described in Example Ib, N tert.butyloxycarbonyl sultine diastereomers S R and S c s cS were isolated in a 1 1 ratio yield 86 . 5 Sc RS BOC sultine melting point 127 C CH2Cl2 CCl4 Rf0.43 solvent system B H NMR 61.44 s,9H,t Bu , 3.14 and 3.45 AB part of ABX spec trust JAX 2.9 Hz, JBX 6.0 Hz, JAB 13.9 Hz, 2B, CH2S 4.33 4.98 m.2H,CH2O , 4.79 m, 1H covered by CH2O CHCH2O , 5.05 br,1H,NH IR kBr 3325, 1683, 1530, 1102 cm 1 13C NMR CD2Cl2 28.4 CH3 3C C N covered by CD2C12 signals. 67.4 CS , 80.7 CE3 3C , 77.6 COS Ot , 155.2 C O exact mass calculated for C7H12NO4S M CB3 206.139, found 206.139 Anal. calculated for C8H15NO4S C 43.42 H 6.83 N 6.33.Found C 43.46 H 6.90 N 6.13. SC SS BOC sultine melting point 135 136 C CH2Cl2 Rf 0.64 solvent system B H NMR 1.43 s.9H,t Bu , 2.94 and 3.22 AB part of ABX spectrum, JAX 1.3 Hz, JBX 6.6 Hz, JAB 9.7 Hz. 2H, CH2S , 4.59 and 4.76 AB part of ABX spectrum, JAX 1.9 Hz, JBX 5.5 Hz, JAB 9.7 Hz, 2H,CH2O , 4.85 m,1H,CHCH2O , 6.06 br.1H,NH , 13C NMR CO2Cl2 28.5 CH3 3C , 50.9 C N , 62.8 CS , 80.2 CH3 3C , 83.0 COS O , 155.2 C O N IR kBr 13325,1725,1525,1115 cm exact mass calculated for C7H12NO4S M CH3 found 206.139 Anal. calculated for C8H15NO4S C 43.42 H 6.83 N 6.33 Found C 43.56 H 6.85 N 6.29.Example IIIPreparation of N benzyloxycarbonyl S oxo S methylthiomethyl D cysteinol and N tert. butyloxycarbonyl S oxo S methylthiomethyl D cysteinol In order to prepare the anion of dimethyl sulfide, tetramethyl ethylene diamine 0.70 g, 0.91 ml, 6.0 mmol , freshly distilled dimethyl sulfide 0.37 g, 0.44 ml, 6.0 mmol and 2 ml freshly distilled THF were respectively introduced by means of a syringe into a 50 ml, cooled 0 C round bottom flask equiped with a septum , containing 3.75 ml of a 1.6M solution of n butyllithium in hexane 6 mmol . The resulting solution was stirred at room temperature for four hours, cooled to 300C, and added dropwise to a cooled 780C solution of the N benzyloxycarbonylsultine dinstereomers Sc Rs and Sc Ss 510 mg, 2.0 mmol in 6 ml freshly distilled THF. Subsequently the reaction mixture was stirred at 700C for 30 minutes, stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes, and thereafter rapidly quenched at 0 C with 5 ml of a saturated aqueous solution ofKHSO4. Immediately thereafter the pH of the mixture was adjusted to 6 8 by adding solid sodium carbonate. Ethyl acetate was added and thereafter the water layer was extracted four times with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were dried over Na2S04, and the solvent was evaporated in vacuo The residue was chromatographed at a slightly elevated pressure 10 mm Eg, eluent methanol CH2Cl2, 5 95, v v , to produce Sc Rs N benzyloxycarbonyl S oxo S methylthiomethyl D cysteinol yield 46 and N benz4oxycarbonyl S oxo S methylthiomethyl D cysteinol yield 33 . Prepared in the same way were the compounds S R N tert. c s butylOxyCarbonyl S oxo S methylthiomethyl D cysteinol, in a yield of 71 , and Sc Ss N tert. butyloxycarbonyl S oxo s methylthiomethyl Dcysteinol in a yield of 70 , after preparative HPLC solvent system C .These compounds were in every respect identical to the corresponding compounds described earlier by H.C.J. Ottenheijm, R.M.J. Liskamp et al.,J.Org. Chem. 1981, 46, 3273.Sc Rs N benzyloxycarbonyl S oxo S methylthomethyl D cysteinol Melting point 930 C CH2Cl2 hexane Rf 0.35 solvent system A NMR CD2C12 62.27 s,3H,SCH3 , 2.96 and 3.33 AB part of ABX spectrum, JAX 4.9 Hz,JBX 5.8 Hz, JAB 13.4 Hz , 3.60 3.95 m,2H,CH2OH , 3.71 and 3.84 AB spectrum covered by CE20H, 2E, JAB 13.5 Hz, S O C 2S , 4.26 m,1H,CHCH2 0 , 5.09 s,2H,C6H5CH2 , 5.94 hr.d,1H,NH , 7.34 s,5H,C6H5 IR kBr 3335, 1680, 1530, 1006 cm 1 exact mass calculated for C13H19NO4S2 317.256.Found 317.256 Anal. calculated for C13El9NO4S2 C 49.19 H 6.03 N 4.41. Found C 49.15 H 6.03 N 4.34. S S N benzyloxycarbonyl S oxo S methylthiomethyl D cysteinol Melting c S point 1620C CB2Cl2 hexane Rf 0.32 solvent system A NMR CD2Cl2 62.29 s,3H,SCH3 , 2.97 and 3.21 AB part of ABX spectrum, JAX 7.0 Hz,JBX 6.4 Hz, JAB 13.2 Hz, 2H, CHC 2S O , 3.73 4.00 m,4H,CHCH2O andS O CH2S , 4.16 m,1H,CHCH2O , 5.09 s,2HC6H5CH2 , 5.70 br,1H,NH , 7.35 s,5H,C6H5 IR kBr 3330, 1695, 1538, 1025, 1015. cm exact mass calcluated for C13H19NO4S2 317.256. Found 317.257 Anal. calculated forC13H19NO4S2 C 49.19 H 6.03 N 4.41. Found C 49.16 5.95 N 4.16. Comparative example 2Preparation of 2 oxo4 methylthiomethyl sulfoxomethylene oxazolidine formula 17 The ring opening reaction of S R Cbo sultine or the S S CS C 5 Cbo sultine was carried out as described in Example III, but with slightly different processing. Instead of quenching with a saturated aqueous solution of KHSO4, the reaction mixture was stirred overnight with solidKHSO4. Methanol was then added,. and the mixture was stirred for another two hours at room temperature.After removal of the salts by filtration, the filtrate was concentrated to dryness, and the residue was chromatographed over silica eluent methanol CH2Cl2, 5 95, v v to prcduce Sc Rs 2 oxo 4 methylthiomethyl sulfoxomethylene oxazolidine in a yield of 19 and Sc Ss 2.oxo 4 methylthiomethyl sulfoxomethylene oxezolidine in a yield of 11 , respectively.S R 2 oxo 4 methylthiomethyl sulfoxomethylene oxazolidine Rf 0.24 Cs solvent system A NMR CD2Cl2 2.31 s,3H,SCH3 . 2.89 3.29 br.d,2H,CHCH2S , 3.77 and 3.90 AB spectrum, JAB 13.8 Hz. 2H, S O CH2S , 4.10 and 4.69 m,3H,CHCH2O , 6.40 br.s,1H,NH IR nujol 3250, 1745, 1710, 1040 cm 1, mass spoctrum m e 209 M . S S 2 oxo 4 methylthiomethyl sulfoxomethylene oxazolidine Rf 0.22 Cs solvent system A NMR CD2Cl2 2.32 s,3H,SCH3 , 2.94 3.29 m,2H,CHCH2S , 3.78 and 3.86 AB spectrum, JAB 13.6 Hz, 2H, S O CH2 S , 4.17 4.69 m,3H,CHCH2O , 6.84 br.s,lH,NB IR nujol 3240, 1760, 1710, 1045 cm mass spectrum m e 209 M . Example IVPreparation of N benzyloxycarbonyl S oxo S n butyl D cysteinol and Ntert.butyloxycarbonyl S oxo S n butyl D cysteinol A cooled CO2 isopropanol solution of the n butyl lithiumtetramethylethylene diamine complex, prepared by adding tetramethylethylene diamine 523 mg, 0.68 ml, 4.5 mmol to a solution of n butyl lithium in hexane 4.5 mmol , was added to a stirred, cooled 780C solution of the Sc Rs Cbo sultine 383 mg, 1.5 mmol or Sc Ss BOC sultine 331 mg, 1.5 mmol in 5 ml freshly distilled, dry THF. The reaction mixture was stirred at 700C for 30 minutes, and at room temperature for another 30 minutes. Processing was carried out in the manner described in Example III. The title compounds were obtained after HPLC solvent system C in yields of 55 and 37 , respectively.Sc Ss N benzyloxycarbonyl S oxo S n butyl D cysteinol Rf 0.33 solvent system A NMR 0.95 t,3H,CH2CH3 , 1.10 2.0 m,4H,s O CH2CH2CH3 , 2.52 3.29 m,4H,CH2S O CH2 , 3.57 3.97 m,2H,CHCH 2O , 3.97 4.40 m,1H,CHCH2O ,5.09 s,2H,C6H5CH2 , 5.88 br,1H,NH , 7.34 s,5H,C6H5 IR kBr 3430, 3200, 1715, 1510, 1060 cm 1 exact mass calculated for C15H23NO4S 313.225.Found 313.226. S R N tert.butyloxycarbonyl S oxo S n butyl D cysteinol Rf 0.32 CS MeOH CH2Cl2, 9 91, v v NMR CD2C12 0.97 t,3H,CH2CH3 , 1.42 s,9H,tBu 1.22 1.93 m,4H,S O CH2CH 2CH 2CH3 , 2.62 3.21 m,4H,CH2S O CH2 , 3.78 t,2H,CH 2OH , 3.87 4.27 m,1H,CHCH2O , 5.44 br,1H,NH IR kBr 3430, 1710, 1530, 1060 cm 1 mass spectrum m e 222 M t Bu Anal. calculated for C12B25NO4S C 51.59 H 9.02 N 5.01. Found C 51.53 B 8.97 N 4.99. Example VPreparation of Sc Rs sparsomycin a A solution of the BOC S R diastereomer produced in Example c S III 1.273 g, 4.5 nmol in 50 ml TFA was stirred at O C for 30 minutes, whereafter the TFA was evaporated in vacuo. The residue was dried in vacuo over KOB for 1 hour, and thereafter dissolved in a minimum quantity of water. The solution was applied to an ion exchange column Amberlite IRA 410, 20 50 mesh, OH form .Elutriation with water and removal of the solvent by freeze drying gave the compound having formula 10 in quantitative yield 823 mg . The resulting product was homogeneous on thin layer chromatography. Rf 0.31 sec.butanol NH40H 5 2, v v NMR CDCB3 CD2C12 62.34 s,3H,SCH3 , 2.88 3.00 AB part of ABX spectrum, 2H, CHCH2S O , 3.33 3.71 m,3H,CHCH2O , 3.73 and 3.81 AB spectrum, 2H, J 13.8 Hz, S O CH2SCH2 .Anal. calculated for C5H13NO2S2 C 32.76 H 7.15 N 7.64. Found C 32.52 H 7.19 N 7.63.b Ethyl chloroformate 212 mg, 1.95 mmol was added to a stirred, cooled 0 C solution of the acid having formula 12 383 mg, 1.95 mmol and triethylamine 218 mg, 2.15 mmol in 25 ml TEF DMF 1 1, v v .Stirring was continued at 0 C for 4 hours Thereafter a solution of the amino alcohol produced under a 275 mg, 1.5 mmol in 25 ml THF DMF 1 1, 4 4 was added dropwise. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 48 hours, and thereafter the solvents were removed in vacuo at room temperature. The resulting product was purified by gel filtration with Sephadex LE 20 eluent H2O methanol, 15 85, v v to pro duce S R sparsomycin in a yield of 48 . It was homogeneous on thin c S layer chromatograph Rf 0.28 methanol CH2Cl2, 1 4, v v NMR D20 2.71 s,3H, SCH3 , 2.82 s,3H, C 6 CH3 , 3.62 d,2H,CHCH 2S O , 4.18 m,2H,CHCH 2OH , 4.36 and 4.52 AB spectrum, J 13.8 Hz, 2E, S O CH 2SCH3 , 4.88 m,1H,CHCH2OH , 7.47 and 7.81 AB spectrum J 15.6 Hz,2H,HC CH IR kBr 1715, 1660, 1600, 1015 cm 1 UV MeCN max 297 nm alpha 25D 75 c 0.245, water . Anal. calculated for C13H19N3O5S2 C 43.20 H 5.30 N 11.63. Found C 43.61 S 5.20 N 11.43.