# Seal for wheel bearing and universal joint.

## Abstract
In an assembly comprising a wheel bearing adapted to be secured to a suspension component, the wheel bearing inner race 5 being adapted to have a wheel secured to it and driven by a rotatable shaft 14 via a constant velocity ratio universal joint 9 , a rigid annular shroud 17 is fixed to the wheel bearing outer race 11 and extends substantially along the axial length of the constant velocity ratio universal joint 9 , a flexible annular boot 19 is fixed to this shroud and a bearing member 22 in running contact with the rotatable shaft 14 , to form a sealing enclosure.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An assembly comprising a bearing outer race 1 adapted to be secured to a suspension component or components, a bearing inner race 5 , bearing means 4 rotatably mounting said inner race relative to said outer race, said bearing inner race 5 being adapted to have a wheel secured to it, a constant velocity ratio universal joint 9 , and a rotatable shaft 14 for driving said bearing inner race 5 via said constant velocity ratio universal joint 9 , characterised in that there is a rigid annular shroud 17 extending from said bearing outer race 1 substantially along and spaced from, the axial length of said constant velocity ratio universal joint 9 , and a flexible annular boot 19 or 19a fixed to said shroud 17 and to a bearing member 22 or 22a in running contact with said rotatable shaft 14 , to form a sealing enclosure. 2. An assembly according to claim 1 further characterised in that the flexible boot 19a extends beyond said bearing member 22a and has a formation 28 in running contact with an exposed part of the shaft 14 so as to provide a shaft seal. 3. An assembly according to claim 1 or claim 2 further characterised in that the flexible annular boot 19 or 19a incorporates circular convolutions. An An assembly as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 further characterised in that the flexible annular boot 19 or 19a incorporates elliptical convolutions. 5. An assembly according to any one of the preceding claims further characterised in that said rigid annular shroud 17 extends from, and is formed as an integral part of, said wheel bearing outer race 1 . 6. An assembly according to any one of the preceding claims further characterised in that said bearing member 22 or 22a comprises an axially split plastics bearing, each half of which incorporates a tenon and dimensionally matching recess. 7. An assembly according to any preceding claim further characterised in that said bearing member 22 or 22a is confined within a retaining cover 21 or 21a , said retaining cover being deformed over said bearing member to prevent accidental dis assembly. 8. An assembly according to any one of the preceding claims further characterised in that the bearing member 22 or 22a is located in a groove in the shaft, to restrict axial movement of said bearing member. 9. An assembly according to any one of Claims 1 to 7 further characterised in that said bearing member 22 or 22a is unrestrained by any feature on the shaft 14 , axial movement being controlled solely by said flexible boot 19 . 10. An assembly according to any one of claims 1 to 7 further characterised in that said bearing member 22 or 22a is located on an annular collar on the shaft, to restrict axial movement of said bearing member. 11. An assembly according to claim 9 further characterised in that said flexible boot 19 or 19a is fixed directly to a bearing member 22 or 22a not having a retaining cover.

## Description
Seal For Wheel Bearing and Universal Joint This invention relates to constant velocity universal joint and wheel bearing assemblies for motor vehicles. In particular, this invention relates to an improved sealing means for such an assembly. It is known in the construction of universal joints to provide a flexible seal for connection to part of the joint outer race and a shaft associated with the joint inner race, to form a sealing enclosure. Upon rotation of the joint, the sealing means has to withstand the dynamic stresses imposed by such rotation. Furthermore, a seal of this type could not be utilized to additionally seal a wheel bearing outer race associated with the joint since relative rotation occurs between the two. It has been proposed in UK Patent number 1063932 to provide a non rotating flexible seal, fixed at one end to a bell shaped inner part of a wheel spindle and at its other end to an annular bearing in running contact with a drive shaft associated with a universal joint inner race. However, this design of seal utilizes a much greater enclosed volume of lubricant compared to that required in a rotatable joint seal and, furthermore, an independent sealing means is required in order to seal the associated wheel bearing. It is an object of the present invention to provide a common sealing means for a universal joint and a wheel bearing. The provision of such sealing means obviates the requirement for providing separate seals for the joint and bearing, each having individual charges of lubricant and each requiring separate servicing throughout the life of the assembly. According to the invention there is provided an assembly comprising a wheel bearing outer race adapted to be secured to a suspension component or components of a vehicle, a wheel bearing inner race, bearing means rotatably mounting said inner race relative to said outer race, the bearing inner race being adapted to have a wheel secured to it, a constant velocity ratio universal joint, and a rotatable shaft for driving the bearing inner race via the constant velocity ratio universal joint, wherein, there is a rigid annular shroud extending from the bearing outer race substantially along and spaced from, the axial length of the constant velocity ratio universal joint, and a flexible annular boot fixed to the shroud and to a bearing member in running contact with the rotatable shaft, to form a sealing enclosure. The flexible boot may extend beyond the bearing member and have a formation in running contact with an exposed part of the shaft so as to provide a shaft seal. The invention will now be described by way of example only with reference to the accompanying drawings in which, Figure 1 shows a part cross sectional representation of an assembly of the kind specified and Figure 2 shows a modification to part of the assembly shown in Figure 1. In the assembly shown in the drawings a wheel bearing outer race 1 has a flange 2 to enable it to be secured to suspension means, not shown. In the interior of wheel bearing outer race 1 is a surface 3 which has running engagement with wheel bearings 4 spaced around a wheel bearing inner race 5 having a bearing surface 6. The wheel bearing inner race 5 is of two part construction and comprises a wheel flange 7 and the outer race 8 of a constant velocity ratio universal joint 9. On wheel flange 7 are disposed studs 10 which provides for mounting of a conventional brake disc and vehicle wheel. A constant velocity ratio universal joint 9 comprises an outer member 8 and an inner member 11, between the bearing surfaces of which are arranged balls 12 confined within a cage 13 in a conventional manner.The inner member of the constant velocity ratio universal joint 9 is rigidly fixed to a shaft 14 by splines 15 and spring ring 16. A rigid annular shroud 17 locates in an annular recess 18 on wheel bearing outer race 1 and is firmly fixed therein.On a peripheral portion of rigid annular shroud 17, one end of a flexible convoluted boot 19 is fixed by retaining clip 20. The boot 19 extends to a retaining cover 21 of an axially split plastics bearing 22, and is retained thereon by a clip 23. A rotary seal 24 locates in recess 25 at the end of retaining cover 21 and is in running contact with shaft 14.In a similar manner, a rotary seal 26 is located in a retaining cover 27 attached to wheel bearing outer race 1, and is in running contact with wheel flange 7. Referring now to Figure 2, parts of this embodiment corresponding to like parts in Figure 1 are designated by the same reference members suffixed with razz A flexible convoluted boot 19a is attached at one end to rigid annular shroud 17 by retaining clip 20. The opposite end of flexible convoluted boot 19a is attached to retaining cover 21a by retaining clip 23a. The retaining cover 21a houses an axially split plastics bearing 22a which surrounds shaft 14 and is in running contact with it. A portion 28 of boot 19a extends beyond retaining cover 21a and is in running contact with an exposed part of shaft 14 at 29, 30 and 31 so as to form a rotary shaft seal. In operation shaft 14 is drivably connected to wheel flange 7 by constant velocity ratio universal joint 9 and is rotatably supported by wheel bearings 4 running in wheel bearing inner race 5 and wheel bearing outer race 1 connected via flange 2 to suspension means. The rigid annular shroud 17 and flexible convoluted boot 19 define a sealing enclosure for common lubrication, usually by means of a suitable grease, of constant velocity ratio universal joint 9 and wheel bearings 4. In a preferred method of construction of an assembly of the kind described the outer member 8 of the constant velocity universal joint 9 is permanently joined to wheel flange 7 by electron beam welding, after wheel bearing outer race 1 and wheel bearings 4 have been located in their appropriate positions with respect to wheel bearing inner race 5. It is to be understood that the rigid annular shroud 17 may form an integral part of wheel bearing outer race 1. In this embodiment a peripheral portion of wheel bearing outer race 1 is suitably shaped such that a conventional convoluted boot as described can be attached to the stationary bearing outer race. Furthermore, the flexible convoluted boot 19, 19a, may be elliptical or oval in shape, thus allowing greater angular flexibility in the plane of the major axis than in the plane of the minor axis. This flexible boot design can be fitted to a vehicle such that the major axis of the convolutions would lie in the horizontal plane, thus providing for increased angular flexibility for wheel steering requirements whilst the minor axis of the convolutions in the vertical plane would accommodate the reduced angular flexibility necessary for suspension movement only.The advantage of such a flexible boot having elliptical or oval convolutions lies in the fact that the size and disposition of vehicle suspension components tends to place a premium on space in the vertical plane and by having the minor axis of the convolutions in this vertical plane a substantial space reduction can be achieved. Since the flexible boot does not rotate with the shaft, being firmly fixed to the wheel bearing outer race via the annular shroud, it has the advantage in that dynamic stresses within the flexible boot are considerably lower than in a rotating boot. This allows greater freedom in choice of materials and proportioning the convolution shapes and thicknesses whether radially or axially or a combination of both.In addition, the much reduced flexibility requirements compared with a rotating boot allows materials to be used which are more resistant to damage from external sources, whether this be mechanical or thermal in character. Furthermore, the angular flexibility requirements of universal joint boots for steered wheel applications invariably result in contact between adjacent convolutions at high angles and on rotating flexible boots the different diameters of adjacent convolutions can result in rubbing contact, which eventually leads to perforation of one or both of the contacting convolutions. A non rotating boot design, as described previously, drastically reduces the amount of rubbing between contacting convolutions and hence the life of the boot is enhanced. In order to accommodate relative movement between the flexible boot and shaft an axially split plastics bearing is interposed between the shaft and boot and each half of the bearing can incorporate a tenon and a dimensionally matching recess. When assembled the outside diameter of the shaft bearing must be larger than the largest diameter on the shaft between the splined end for location of the universal joint and the zone within which the bearing is designed to operate.This feature is necessary to enable a complete retaining cover to be easily assembled over the bearing to hold the two bearing halves together. The retaining cover can be deformed over the enlarged end of the assembled bearing to prevent accidental dis assembly. Furthermore, the shaft bearing may be located in a groove in the shaft or shaped to locate on an annular collar on the shaft and dimensioned to give a greater or lesser degree of axial freedom relative to the shaft. Alternatively, the bearing may be unrestrained by any feature on the shaft but controlled axially by the sealing boot alone. In this embodiment it is convenient directly to connect the flexible boot to the outside diameter of the bearing, thus eliminating the retaining cover. There may be provided a seal or other form of divider to separate the lubricants for the universal joint and for the bearing from one another, if different types of lubricant are required for them.