# Apparatus for processing industrial gases.

## Abstract
An apparatus is provided for processing, e.g. incinerat ing, industrial gases. The apparatus is of the type having a centrally disposed chamber 30 . At least three separate heat exchange beds 12, 13, 14 are disposed around the periphery of the chamber 30 . Each of the heat exchange beds 12, 13, 14 contains heat exchange packing elements 11 . An inlet means 19 is coupled to each bed 12, 13, 14 for conducting gases to the bed 12, 13, 14 for passage therethrough into the chamber 30 . An outlet means 46 is coupled to each bed 12, 13, 14 for conducting gases away from the bed 12, 13, 14 after the gases have passed outwardly from the chamber 30 through the bed 12, 13, 14 . A heating means 39 , preferably disposed within the chamber 30 , provides heat to the chamber 30 . The improvement in this apparatus comprises providing at least one heat transfer conduit 50 , preferably substantially vertically within each bed 12, 13, 14 . A means is provided for withdrawing heat transfer fluid from the conduit 50 . Alternatively, and preferably, the heat transfer conduits 50 are disposed within the central chamber 30 or adjacent to the central chamber 30 .

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. In an apparatus for processing industrial gases of the type having a centrally disposed chamber, at least three separate heat exchange beds disposed around the periphery of the chamber, each bed containing heat exchange packing elements, an inlet means coupled to each bed for conducting gases to the. bed for passage therethrough into the chamber, an outlet means coupled to each bed for conducting gases away from the bed after the gases have passed outwardly from the chamber through. the bed, and a heating means for providing heat to the chamber, the improvement comprising at least one heat transfer conduit within each bed, a means for introducing heat transfer fluid to the conduit and. means for withdrawing heat transfer fluid from the conduit. 2. In an apparatus for processing industrial gases of the type having a centrally disposed chamber, at least three separate heat exchange beds disposed around the periphery of the chamber, each bed containing heat exchange packing elements, an inlet means coupled to each bed for conducting gases to the bed for passage therethrough into the chamber, an outlet means coupled to each bed for conducting gases away from the bed after the gases have passed outwardly from the chamber through the bed and a heating means for providing heat to the chamber, the improvement comprising at least one heat transfer conduit within the chamber, a means for introducing heat transfer fluid to the conduit and means for withdrawing heat transfer fluid from the conduit. .3. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the heat transfer conduit is adjacent the chamber. 4. The apparatus of Claim 2, wherein the heat transfer conduit is adjacent the beds. 5. The apparatus of Claims 1, 2, 3 or 4, wherein the heat transfer conduit is substantially vertical. 6. The apparatus of Claim 5, further comprising a steam drum located above the chamber and external thereto in fluid, communication with the conduits a mud drum near the bottom of the chamber, external thereto, in fluid communication with the conduits and at least one downcomer external to the chamber connecting the steam drum and mud drum. 7. The apparatus of Claims 1 or 2, wherein the heating means is within the chamber. 8. The apparatus of Claim 3 or 4, wherein the conduits are connected by an expansion header. 9. The apparatus of Claim 3 or 4, wherein the heat transfer conduits maintain the heat exchange packing elements in the bed.

## Description
APPARATUS FOR PROCESSING INDUSTRIAL GASES This invention relates to at improvement in an apparatus for the combustion of industrial waste gases and is more particularly related to the combustion of waste gases with the extraction of usable energy in an economical and highly effective apparatus. Steam generators designed to extract heat from waste gases are known in the art. See, for example,U.S. Patent Nos. 2,336,833 to Badenhausen, and 2,048,466 to Hays. Hays describes a heat exchanger design in a steam generator wherein an elongated bed of particulate mass is located about vertical heat transfer conduits and a mixture of combustible gases is passed vertically through the mass of particles.A surface combustion effect is obtained, resulting in a substantial rise in the temperature of the gases, to effect heat transfer to the heat transfer fluid. U.S. Patent No. 2,967,094 to tlitchell provides for a waste heat boiler which mixes the waste gases with additional air and fuel in a central gas mixing zone to provide for sufficient combustion to elevate the temperature of the gases above a threshhold temperature level. Alternatively, Mitchell proposes to reach the threshhold temperature level by catalytic action of combustion promoters. The gas mixing zone is an elongated vertical cylindrical zone which is surrounded by an annular bed of particles, the gases passing laterally from the central mixing chamber to burn in the annular bed at a high surface combustion rate.Elongated heat transfer conduits are passed vertically through the annular bed in closely spaced, staggered arrangement to provide for a baffled flow of gases over the tubes to continually remix the gases thereby providing high heat transfer rates. Mitchell, eliminates high pressure drops and uneven temperature patterns said to exist in Hays but requires the baffled flow of gases over the heat transfer conduits, necessitating a complicated tube arrangement, to affect high heat transfer rates. U.S. Patent No, 3,895,918 to Mueller, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference, describes a thermally regenerative processing apparatus having a plurality of spaced, non parallel heat exchange beds disposed around the periphery of a central chamber. Each bed has an inlet and an outlet conduit coupled to it for conducting the gas through it in the desired direction. This apparatus, as well as other thermal regenerative type apparatus, tend to be inefficient when the gas entering the apparatus has a heating value greater than that needed for combustion of the gas. The apparatus of Mueller cannot utilize and recover this excess heat. The gas leaving the apparatus exits at a very high temperature and an auxiliary heat recovery unit must be added to the unit to recover this excess heat value.The unit described in Mueller is presently manufactured by The RegenerativeEnvironmental Equipment Company, Inc. Reeco of Morris Plains, New Jersey as the RETHEZ g SYSTEM. It is an object of this invention to overcome some of the deficiencies of the prior art waste heat boilers and thermal regenerative processing apparatus, and provide an. improved and more efficient apparatus for processing industrial waste gases. According to the invention there is provided an apparatus for processing industrial gases of the type having a centrally disposed chamber, at least three separate heat exchange beds disposed around the periphery of the chamber, each bed containing heat exchange packing elements, an inlet means coupled to each bed for conducting gases to the bed for passage therethrough into the chamber, an outlet means coupled to each bed for conducting gases away from the bed after the gases have passed outwardly from the chamber through the bed, and a heating means for providing heat to the chamber, the improvement comprising at least one heat transfer conduit within each bed, a means for introducing heat transfer fluid to the conduit and means for withdrawing heat transfer fluid from the conduit. The invention further provides an apparatus for processing industrial gases of the type having a centrally disposedchamber, at least three separate heat exchange beds disposed around the periphery of the chamber, each bed containing heat exchange packing elements, an inlet means coupled to each bed for conducting gases to the bed for passage therethrough into the chamber, an outlet means coupled to each bed for conducting gases away from the bed after the gases have passed outwardly from the chamber through the bed and a heating means for providing heat to the chamber, the improvement comprising at least one heat transfer conduit within the chamber, a means for introducing heat transfer fluid to the conduit and means for withdrawing heat transfer fluid from the conduit. In the accompanying drawings FIG. 1 is a perspective view, partially in section of an embodiment of an apparatus of this invention FIG. 2 is a diagrammatic view showing the possible placement of the heat transfer conduits in relation to the central chamber and heat exchange beds FIG. 2A is a diagrammatic view of a preferred embodiment of heat transfer conduits FIG. 3 is a plan view of the embodiment of the apparatus of this invention depicted in FIG. 1 FIG. 4 is an enlarged view in perspective and partially in section of a portion of the apparatus shown in FIGS. 1 and 3 FIG. 5 is a sectional view of the portion of the apparatus shown in FIG. 4 taken along line 5 5 ofFIG. 4 and FIG. 6 is a diagrammatic plan view of an embodiment of heat transfer conduits and headers. The apparatus of this invention is an improvement over the apparatus described in U.S. Patent No. 3,895,918 to Mueller. As indicated previously, the entire disclosure of this patent is incorporated herein by reference. For a more detailed description of the apparatus, the reader is referred to that patent. l ferring now to FIGS. 1 6, there is shown an apparatus for processing industrial gases, generally designated 10 . The gases are usually combustible waste gases and may include entrained liquids, solids and or a fuel which. may be ignited. Referring to the embodiments depicted in FIG. 1 and FIG. 5, the apparatus 10 comprises three heat exchange beds 12, 13 and 14 containing heat exchange elements 11 , e.g. ceramic packing elements. As shown in FIG. 3, the beds 12, 13 and 14 are, preferably, disposed substantially equiangularlyaround the periphery of a central purification chamber 30 . Waste gases from industrial or other processes are conveyed to the beds 12, 13 and 14 by gas inlet 16 . Inlet 16 is connected to a distributor conduit 18 that can feed the gases to any of the heat exchange beds 12, 13 and 14 . Referring to FIGS. 1, 4 and 5, the distributor conduit 18 is coupled by connecting pipes 19 to the bottoms of the flues 22, 23 and 24 associated with the beds 12, 13 and 14, respectively . Damper valves 20 are used to control the flow of gas to any selected flue or flues and their associated heat exchange beds. The damper valves 20 may be manually controlled, but alternatively may be arranged for electro mechanical, pneumatic or other type operation and programming to follow a predetermined cycling. The flue beds 22, 23 and 24 are contained within a vertical support structure 32, 33 and 34 having walls 25 made, for example, of metal, internally lined with refractory or other insulation material. The beds 12, 13 and 14 are filled with heat exchange elements 11 made of, for example, ceramic or metallic elements such as those sold under the trademark Interlox or Super Interlox or Super Interlox by the Norton Chemical Company.Referring to FIGS. 1, 2, 4 and 5, these elements 11 are held at the innermost portion of the bed by a plurality of canted refractory or metallic louvers 27 substantially adjacent to chamber 30 , and at the outermost portion of the bed by a screen, mesh or plurality of louvers 28 . Alternatively, as shown inFIG. 2A, the elements 11 may be held at the innermost portion of the bed by a screen or mesh 27a which is water cooled by the heat transfer conduits 50 . Each bed 12, 13 and 14 and flue 22, 23 and 24 is topped by a refractory lined metallic cover 26 .The central chamber 30 is generally cylindrical in cross section, with a refractory lined dome 31 . The incoming gas after passing through damper valve 20 and connecting pipe 19 enters one of the flues 22, 23 and 24 and then passes through the screen 28 into and through the beds 12, 13 and 14 and over heat transfer conduits 50 discussed below .The particular bed which the ga enters depends upon the setting of damper valves 20 and 44 . The gas is then directed outward and upward through louvers 27 into the central chamber 30 . Referring to FIG. 4, just outside of each set of louvers 27 there is an angled gas deflecting baffle 35, 36 and 37 . The chamber 30 is furnished with a heating means, preferably at least one gas, electric or oil burner 39 projecting towards the center of the chamber 30 through an aperture formed in the curved wall 38 . Burner 39 in combination with the burning gas, may generate within chamber 30 an intense heat of the order of about 7500C. to about 1100 C., burning all of the gas and any impurities contained therein. The heating means may be used just for igniting a gas which is sufficient to sustain combustion, may be used continuously to maintain an appropriate temperature for gases incapable of sustaining combustion or intermittently as the gas composition varies. The oxidized and purified gas is then withdrawn from chamber 30 , passing through a selected one of the other beds and over the conduits 50 . Referring to PIGS. 1, 3, 4 and 5, the gas may be moved through the apparatus by, for example, a negative pressure produced by the action of exhaust blower 40 .Blower 40 is connected by conduit section 41 and circular conduit 42 via valve 44 and conduit segments 46 to flues 22, 23 and 24 . The conduit segments 46 are connected to the flues 22, 23 and 24 at points higher on the vertical support structures 32, 33 and 34 than the corresponding points at which connecting pipes 19 are connected. Referring to FIGS. 4 and 5, at least one, and preferably a plurality of substantially vertical heat transfer conduits 50 are passed through each heat exchange bed 12, 13 and 14 and through the heat exchange elements 11 . As indicated in FIG. 5, the conduits 50 are adjacent the central chamber 30 . Alternatively, the heat transfer conduits 50 may pass through the central chamber. Preferably, the conduits 50 are vertical, but the invention is not to be so limited. FIG. 2 is a diagrammatic view showing the placement of the heat transfer conduits 50a, 50bland and 50c , in relation to the central chamber 30 , heat exchange bed 12, 13 and 14 and innermost louvers 27 .Configuration A shows vertical conduits 50a within the heat exchange bed Configuration B shows vertical conduits 50b within the central chamber and adjacent the bed 12, 13 and 14 and Configuration C shows vertical conduits 50c within the bed 12, 13 and 14 and adjacent the central chamber 30 , i.e., just outside louvers 27 . Configuration B and C are highly preferred. Configuration C allows for high efficiency of the conduits in transferring the heat to the heat exchange fluid. FIG. 2A shows another embodiment of the conduits 50 wherein screen 27 a holds elements 11 in the bed and the conduits 50 cool the screen while absorbing heat therefrom. Conduits 50 may be placed in a closely nested and staggered arrangement to cause a continuous baffling of the flow of gas which is passed laterally over the conduits 50 . This provides a continuous mixing of the gas. In the embodiment depicted in FIGS. 4 and 5, however, the conduits 50 are within each bed adjacent to the central chamber 30 just outside louvers 27 and not nested and staggered. Such nesting and staggering of the conduits 50 is not required in the apparatus of this invention to obtain optimum heat recovery, although such configurations may be utilized. In FIGS. 4 and 5, conduits 50 are substarftially surrounded by heat exchange elements 11 . High heat transfer rates to the conduits 50 and heat transfer fluid e.g. water within the conduits 50 are provided by radiation from the hot elements 11 surrounding the conduits 50 and by convection from the turbulent gas passing over the conduits 50 . The temperature during combustion can reach a level of about 9500cm to about 11000 C. during the transfer of the gas through the beds. The gas is then rapidly cooled during its transfer through the bed through which it exits. The bed through which it exits also has vertical heat transfer conduits 50 contained thereinThis provides for the efficient extraction of a large portion of the heat from the gases. The heat transfer fluid is preferably water. Referring to FIG. 1, preferably a steam drum 52 is located above the chamber 30 on its centerline.The steam drum 52 is connected by conduits 50 or via headers not shown to, for example, mud drums 54 at the lower end of the apparatus. One or more downcomer pipes 56 , external to beds 11, 12 and 13 connect the steam drum 52 to the mud drum 54 . Such a boiler configuration permits natural convection circulation and may be utilized with any of the conduit configurations depicted in FIG. or 2A. Steam which is formed as a result of heat exchange to the conduits 50 is returned through the conduits 50 to the steam drum 52 for transfer to a desired location. FIG. 6 depicts inward facing expansion loops 60 in the headers to conduits 50 . This permits the expansion of the header during heating. In operation the apparatus operates in a similar manner to that depicted in U.S. Patent 3,8 95,918 toMueller, with the exception that excess heat above that required to raise the gases to combustion temperatures is utilized to produce steam, hot water, etc. The apparatus of this invention may have any number of beds and associated baffles, inlet and outlet valves, etc. Optionally, in order to enhance the efficiency, reduce fuel costs, and obtain more efficient conversion of noxious gases to useful heat, the various heat exchange beds 11, 12 and 13 may have associated therewith or incorporated therein a catalytic material.The catalysts may be any one of the known catalysts suitable for the chemical reaction involved, such as the conversion, for example, of nitrous oxide into nitrogen and carbon dioxide. Of course, the particular catalyst used will depend on many things such as the inlet gas temperature, the type of noxious fumes being treated, the type and size of the heat exchange elements, etc. Generally, most of the prior art Mueller type regenerative incinerators are installed with fixed specifications. The unit is designed to incinerate gas at a specified temperature for a specified length of time or longer. A typical temperature is 16000F, 8710C. for 2 seconds. Such a unit will also be designed for a maximum gas flow rate. Given the design flow rate, temperature and time, the size of the central chamber is determined. The design firing rate is fixed at a maximum to accommodate start ups and variations in the energy BTU content of the gases, if any. The energy recovery chambers are then designed to achieve a desired efficiency. For example, a unit may be designed for a 25,000SCFM, 16000F. 8710C. for 2 seconds with a varying BTU content in the gases to be incinerated. A frequent source of gases requiring incineration are from processes where hydrocarbons or solvents are being evolved, such as in plastics manufacture. The solvents from this process are usually mixed with large quantities of air. These gases must be collected and incinerated to meet OSHA or other standards for worker protection. In the prior art Mueller type regenerative incinerators, during start up the central chamber is fired sufficiently to bring the gases to ignition temperature assuming the gases contain sufficient energy , and then continued to be fired if the gases contain an insufficient amount of energy to maintain the gases at design temperature e.g. 1600 F., 8710C. .The auxiliary firing into the central chamber is varied to maintain this design temperature. If there is insufficient energy in the gas to maintain design temperature then there will always be auxiliary firing to maintain that temperature. If there is more energy in the gas than required to maintain design temperature, means must be supplied to remove part of the heat otherwise the incinerator will continue to increase in temperature with very undesirable effects. Several means have been employed in the past. One is to bypass the gas from the central chamber to the exhaust. This removes part of the excess heat before it re enters an outflowing energy conservation chamber. Such a procedure maintains design temperature.Another means used, particularly where there is a large quantity of excess energy in the gas, is to pass the gas from the central chamber through a waste heat system or boiler before exiting to the exhaust. Part of the hot gases required to be bypassed are used to maintain design temperature and the remainder of the excess heat recovered is used, for example, for making hot water or steam. The above described embodiment of the invention 1. Provides nearly 100 efficiency of heat transfer from the hot gases to steam or hot water.The apparatus of this invention provides an extremely high efficiency almost 100 in heat transfer from the hot gases in the chamber to the steam or water in the heat transfer conduit. The only heat losses possible are the losses through pipes or conduits external to the chamber, e.g. pipes connecting the heat transfer conduits to the mud drum and steam drum and the downcomer, and these losses can be almost eliminated with proper insulation. 2. Is in essence a base load or 11constant steaming boiler. Due to the fact that the temperature inside the chamber may be maintained comparatively constant, and the mass flow rate through the chamber constant, a constant steaming boiler exists. This type boiler is often very desirable. 3. Provides the option of over firing to obtain a boiler having a high efficiency and 4. Is an inexpensive boiler. Having set forth the general nature and embodiments of the present invention, the scope is now particularly set forth in the appended claims.