# Bi directional applicator head.

## Abstract
A bi directionai tape applicator head 10 for apply ing tape T onto a working surface 12 , in which tape can either be folded back on itself at the end of each tape laying pass, or may be cut and another length of tape applied in an opposite direction. The head includes a frame to which a swivel plate 24 and a support member are movably connected. The swivel plate has affixed thereto two dispensing blocks 26, 28 and is shiftable between two positions to alternately engage the blocks with the tape while folding over tape extend ing between the blocks. The support member 58 in cludes a feeder assembly 68 and a shearing mechanism 94 and is pivotable between two positions correspond ing to the two swivel plate positions. The feeder as sembly includes two feeder elements which are movable to engage or disengage tape extending therebetween. The feeder assembly is movable along the support mem ber between a retracted position at which the feeder elements are spaced from the shearing mechanism and an extended position at which the feeder elements ex tend past the shearing mechanism between the dispens ing blocks. After shearing the tape and completing a tape laying pass in one direction, the feeder elements are engaged, the swivel plate and support member moved to their other corresponding positions, and the feeder assembly extended to advance the cut tape end past the dispensing blocks. The feeder assembly is then retracted, the feeder elements disengaged, and a tape laying pass in the opposite direction initiated.