# A process for the preparation of starch glue from starch.

## Abstract
A process for the preparation of a starch glue with a high starch content from starch, in particular native starch, according to the Stein Hall method by gelatiniza tion of a part of the starch. The gelatinized starch is decomposed by the addition of a water soluble oxydant in situ at 10 100 C at atmospheric pressure under ob taining a starch glue having a dry material content of starch of 20 45 , by weight. Preferably the decomposition of the gelatinized starch takes place at 50 95 C. Advantageously the oxydant is added to the mixture during the first phase of gelatinization of a part of the starch in the alkaline medium. As oxydant a suitable hypochlorite, a suitable per borate, a sutiable persulfate, a suitable bromate or hydro genperoxide, optionally together with a suitable catalyst is used. However, the use of the perborates, in particular sodium perborate together with a copper sulfate catalyst, is preferred. Finally, the invention also comprises a starch glue having a high starch content.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for the preparation of a starch glue with a high starch content from starch, in particular native starch, according to the Stein Hall method by gelatinization of a part of the starch in water in an alkaline medium, followed by the addition of the rest of the water, the starch, and, if desired, usual additives, particularly boronchemicals and or resins for water resistent glues under conditions, at which no gelatinization occurs, characterized in that the gelatinized starch is decomposed by the addition of a water soluble oxydant in situ at 10 1000C at atmospheric pressure in such a way, that a starch glue is obtained having a dry material content of starch of 20 45 , by weight. 2. The process according to claim 1, characterized in that the decomposition of the gelatinized starch takes place at 50 950C. 3. The process according to claim 1 or 2, characterzied in that the oxydant is added to the mixture during the first phase of gelatinization of a part of the starch in the alkaline medium. 4. The process according to one of the claims 1 3, characterized in that a suitable hypochlorite, a suitable perborate, a suitable persulfate, a suitable bromate or hydrogenperoxide, optionally together with a suitable catalyst is used as water soluble oxydant. 5. The process according to claim 4, characterized in that as water soluble oxydant sodium perborate is used together with a copper sulfate catalyst. 6. A starch glue having a high starch content and containing the usual additives, wherein gelatinized starch is decomposed in situ by means of a water soluble oxydant.

## Description
A PROCESS FOR THE PREPARATION OF STARCH GLUE FROM STARCH. The invention relates to a process for the preparation of a starch glue from starch, in particular native starch, according to the Stein Hall method by gelatinization of a part of the starch in alkaline medium, followed by addition of the rest of the starch under conditions, whereby no gelatinization occurs. In practice this Stein Hall process is carried out in two phases, whereby in the first phase the gelatinizing temperature of the starch is decreased by addition of lye such, that gelatinization occurs, whereas in the second phase the gelatinized starch in the highly alkaline medium is diluted with water and the rest of the intended quantity of starch is added. Because of the high dilution of the alkaline medium, the gelatinizing temperature increases to a level above the prevailing temperature in the solution, so that the freshly added starch does not gelatinize anymore. Thereby the viscosity of the glue mixture does not increase strongly anymore, whereby the mixture remains pumpable. In this way it appears to be possible to prepare a processable glue which contains 18 28 , by weight, of dry material. At the application of the glue onto the product to be glued the machine causes a locally high increase of the temperature, whereby at the application of the glue which contains a considerable percentage of not yet gelatinized starch, this present non gelatinized starch gelatinizes reapidly which causes a high increase of the viscosity and therefore of the adhesion of the glue. For a subsequent consolidation of the adhesion the superfluous water must then be removed from the glue by drying. The glue contains more than 70 of moisture, which must be removed for the greater part. It is evident, that this evaporation of relatively large quantities of water affects in both energetical and economical respect unfavourably the production of glued articles, particularly of corrugated cardboard, so that it would be advantageously to provide a glue having a higher contents of dry material, but which unfortunately may not be realized with the conventional technology. The invention provides now a process for the prepar ation of a starch glue having a high content of starch from starch, in particular native starch, according to the SteinHall method by gelatinization of a part of the starch in water in an alkaline medium, followed by addition of the rest of the water, the starch, and, if desired, usual additives, particularly boron chemicals and or resins for water resistent glues, under conditions, at which no gelatinization occurs, characterized in that the gelatinized starch is decomposed by addition of a water soluble oxydant in situ at 10 1000C at atmospheric pressure in such a way, that a starch glue is obtained having a dry material content of starch of 20 45 , by weight. The decomposition of the gelatinized starch preferably takes place at 50 950C. Suitable oxydants to carry out this reaction are strong oxydants, such as a suitable hypochlorite, a suitable perborate, a suitable persulfate, a suitable bromate or hydrogenperoxide, optionally together with a suitable catalyst, although the perborates are highly preferred in particular sodium perborate together with a copper sulfate catalyst. With the process of the invention a glue product advantageously can be obtained with a high content of starch between 20 and 45 , by weight, of dry material. The present invention has the great advantage, that the glue having a dry material content of 20 45 , by weight, may relatively simply be prepared by the user, e.g. a corrugated cardboard manufacturer, in situ, by introducing the ingredients into an open container provided with a stirrer, accordingly at atmospheric pressure, and reacting them at the proper temperature and during a certain time under obtaining the desired glue which is then ready for application. Only a thin layer of the new high starch content glue needs to be applied in order two obtain the same adhesion as with the prior art glue, while also less water has to be evaporated. As a result the machine speed at the manufacturing of corrugated cardboard can considerably be increased. Finally, the invention also relates to a starch glue having a high starch content and containing the usual additives, wherein gelatinized starch is decomposed by means of a water soluble oxydant. The invention is now illustrated further by the following examples. EXAMPLE I In an open container provided with a stirrer 375 1 of water of 550C, 100 kg of starch and 15 1 sodium hypochlorite 144 g l were introduced whil stirring. This mixture was stirred for 3 minutes. Then, while stirring, 12 kg of NaOH was added, whereupon the mixture was stirred for 15 minutes. The temperature increased hereby to about 600C. Subsequently, 675 1 of water, 600 kg of starch and 5.25 kg of borax were added to the mixture and the obtained mixture was stirred for 15 minutes. In this way a glue was obtained having a dry material content of about 40 . This glue is ready for application. EXAMPLE II In an open container provided with a stirrer 375 1 of water was introduced which is heated to about 65 0C. Then 100 kg of starch, 1 kg of sodium perborate, 0.1 kg copper sulfate catalyst and 12 kg of NaOH were added. During this operation the temperature increased to about 700C. Stirring of this mixture was continued during about 20 minutes. Then 675 1 of water was added to the mixture followed by the addition of 600 kg of starch and 5.25 kg of borax. The total mixture has been stirred until the desired viscosity was obtained. In this way a glue was obtained having a dry material content of about 40 . This glue is ready for application.