# Drum brake assembly.

## Abstract
A drum brake assembly includes a wheel cylinder 36 and extendible assembly 60 disposed between adjoining ends 80, 82 of a pair of brake shoes 24, 26 . The wheel cylinder includes a pair of pistons 40, 42 which are in abutting relation with each other and with the extendible assembly 60 to substantially define a non braking position for the pair of brake shoes. The extendible assembly is operable to move the pair of pistons within the wheel cylinder in response to an excessive clearance between the pair of brake shoes and a rotating drum.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A drum brake assembly having a pair of brake shoes 24, 26 movable by a wheel cylinder 36 from a non braking position to a braking position in engagement with a rotatable member 65 , an extendible assembly 60 cooperating with the wheel cylinder 36 and the pair of brake shoes 24, 26 to substantially maintain a predetermined clearance between the pair of brake shoes 24, 26 and the rotatable member 65 and an actuator assembly 90, 92 cooperating with the extendible assembly 60 to extend the latter in response to the clearance between the pair of brake shoes 24, 26 and the rotatable member 65 being greater than the predetermined amount, characterized in that said actuator assembly 90, 92 comprises an adjusting pawl 90 engageable with the extendible assembly 60 and a connecting member 92 cooperating with a retraction spring 84 to bias said pair of brake shoes 24, 26 to the non braking position, said connecting member 92 pivotally mounting said adjusting pawl 40 at one end 100 of said connecting member in spaced relation to said wheel cylinder 36 , and said connecting member 92 being movably engageable 120, 122 with said wheel cylinder 36 to guide the movement of said connecting member 92 as the latter moves with one 24 of said pair of brake shoes during a brake application. 2. A drum brake assembly according to claim 1 further characterized in that said connecting member 92 includes at least one slot 120 and said wheel cylinder defines at least one plug 112 extending into said one slot 120 to substantially control the direction of movement of said connecting member 92 . 3. A drum brake assembly according to claim 2 further characterized in that said retraction spring 8 engages said connecting member 92 at an intermediate position 106 between said one end 100 and said one slot 120 . 4. A drum brake assembly according to claim 2 further characterized in that said one plug 112 defines a recess 116 for movably receiving said connecting member 92 . 5. A drum brake assembly according to claim 1 further characterized in that the extendible assembly 60 includes a star wheel 64 with ratchet teeth on the outer periphery thereof and said adjusting pawl includes a second arm 44 abutting a side wall 96 of said star wheel 64 , said adjusting pawl 90 pivoting relative to said connecting member 92 and relative to the side wall 96 during a brake application. 6. A drum brake assembly according to claim 3 further characterized in that said connecting member 92 includes a second slot for receiving a portion 114 of the wheel cylinder 36 , the retraction spring 84 extending into said slot 122 to bias the connecting member 92 toward said other brake shoe 26 . 7. A drum brake assembly according to claim 1 wherein said wheel cylinder defines a bore 38 for movably receiving a pair of pistons 40, 42 characterized in that said pair of pistons 40, 42 includes means 41, 50 to prevent rotation therebetween, one 40 of said pistons engaging one 24 of said pair of brake shoes, the other 42 of said pistons engaging said extendible assembly 60 . 8. A drum brake assembly according to claim 1 further characterized in that said one piston 40 includes a recess 52 for receiving a portion 50 of said other piston 42 and said recess 52 and said portion 50 cooperate to prevent rotation between said pair of pistons 40,42 . 9. A drum brake assembly according to claim 1 characterized in that said wheel cylinder and said extendible assembly are disposed within a space adjoining ends 80, 82 of said pair of brake shoes 24, 26 , said wheel cylinder 36 being offset within said space toward said one brake shoe 24 .

## Description
DRUM BRAKE ASSEMBLY The invention relates to a drum brake assembly wherein a torque plate movably carries a pair of brake shoes and a wheel cylinder is operable during a brake application to move the pair of brake shoes from a non braking position to a braking position. In order to compensate for brake shoe lining wear, an extendible assembly cooperates with the wheel cylinder and the pair of brake shoes to control the clearance between the pair of brake shoes and a rotatable member to be braked. The prior art has attempted to integrate or combine the extendible assembly and the hydraulic actuator in order to compactly arrange the components of the drum brake assembly for smaller sizes of drum brakes.This prior art has not been widely accepted by automotive manufacturers either because of servicing problems during repair or cost penalties associated with complicated designs. Some prior art wheel cylinder adjusters also only compensated for lining wear for one brake shoe. If the extendible assembly is combined with the wheel cylinder, it is possible to mount an adjusting pawl on the wheel cylinder to control extension of the extendible assembly. However, in view of the location of the wheel cylinder at the outer radial periphery of the drum brake assembly there are space constraints which can interfer with the operation of the adjusting pawl. To solve these problems the invention proposes a drum brake assembly having a pair of brake shoes movable by a wheel cylinder from a non braking position to a braking position in engagement with a rotatable member, an extendible assembly cooperating with the wheel cylinder and the pair of brake shoes to substantially maintain a predetermined clearance between the pair of brake shoes and the rotatable member and an actuator 2assembly cooperating with the extendible assembly to extend the latter in response to the clearance between the pair of brake shoes and the rotatable member being greater than the predetermined amount, characterized in that said actuator assembly comprises an adjusting pawl engageable with the extendible assembly and a connecting member cooperating with a retraction spring to bias said pair of brake shoes to the non braking position, said connecting member pivotally mounting said adjusting pawl at one end of said connecting member in spaced relation to said wheel cylinder, and said connecting member being movably engageable with said wheel cylinder to guide the movement of said connecting member as the latter moves with one of said pair of brake shoes during a brake application The invention also proposes a drum brake of the above type wherein said wheel cylinder defines a bore for movably receiving a pair of pistons characterized in that said pair of pistons includes means to prevent rotation therebetween, one of said pistons engaging one of said pair of brake shoes, the other of said pistons engaging said extendible assembly. The invention provides an actuator assembly comprising an adjusting pawl which is disposed to the side of the wheel cylinder in spaced relation thereto and a connecting member which supports the adjusting pawl. The connecting member engages one of the pair of brake shoes and cooperates with a retraction spring to bias the pair of brake shoes to the non braking position. The connecting member is also engageable with the wheel cylinder to move with the one brake shoe in a predetermined direction. In a preferred embodiment the wheel cylinder is provided with a pair of openings for fixedly receiving a pair of plugs. The pair of plugs are provided with recesses for receiving the connecting member as the pair of lugs extend into a pair of slots on the connecting member. It is an advantage of the invention that the adjusting pawl is carried independently of the wheel cylinder within the available spaces to the side of the wheel cylinder where the extendible assembly is disposed. With the connecting member supporting the adjusting pawl and the retraction spring attaching the connecting member to the drum brake assembly, it is easy to disassemble the adjusting pawl and connecting member by merely disengaging the retraction spring from the connecting member. The present invention also provides a drum brake assembly with a wheel cylinder including a pair of pistons. One of the pistons engages one of the pair of brake shoes while the other piston engages the extendible assembly. The extendible assembly is located outside the wheel cylinder however, a portion of the extendible assembly extends into the wheel cylinder to engage the other piston. The wheel cylinder and extendible assembly are disposed in coaxial relation within a space between adjoining ends of the pair of brake shoes. The wheel cylinder is offset toward the one brake shoe to substantially occupy one half the space and the extendible assembly is offset toward the other brake shoe to substantially occupy one half the space.In a preferred embodiment, the wheel cylinder is formed integrally with the backing plate and the one piston defines a recess for receiving a portion of the other piston, thereby preventing rotation between the pistons. It is an other advantage of the invention that a single extendible assembly is operable to compensate for lining wear to a pair of brake shoes via the pair of pistons within the wheel cylinder. The extendible assembly is also located ouside the wheel cylinder for easy servicing during replacement of the pair of brake shoes and the extendible assembly cooperates with the pair of pistons to substantially define a stop for the non braking position. One way of carrying out the invention is described in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings wherein Figure 1 is a side view of a drum brake assembly partly cut away and constructed in accordance with the present invention and Figure 2 is a view taken substantially along line 2 2 of Figure 1. In Figure 1, a drum brake assembly 10 includes a torque plate 12 which is adapted to be secured to a portion of an axle assembly in a vehicle . The torque plate 12 includes a center portion lit with a pair of oppositely extending arms 16 and 18 which are slotted at 20 and 26 to receive a pair of brake shoes 24 and 26. The brake shoe 24 being the trailing shoe in a non servo drum brake and the brake shoe 26 being the leading shoe in a non servo drum brake. The torque plate 12 also includes an arm 28 defining an anchor 30 about which the pair of brake shoes pivot during a brake application. A spring 32 biases the pair of brake shoes. into engagement with the anchor 30. Opposite the arm 28 is an offset arm 34 which integrally forms a hydraulic actuator or wheel cylinder 36. The wheel cylinder 36 defines a bore 38 extending through the arm 34 and includes a first piston 40 extending outwardly to engage the brake shoe 24 via slot 41 and a second piston 42 cooperating with the first piston 110 to define a pressure chamber 44. An inlet 46 communicates with a brake fluid pressure generator, such as a master cylinder, for communicating fluid pressure to the pressure chamber 44 during a brake application. The first piston defines a rectangular recess 48 facing the piston 42 and the piston 42 includes a projecting portion 50 telescoping into the recess 118 and abutting a bottom wall 52 of the recess 48. An extendible assembly 60 is carried by the piston 42 and is in engagement with the brake shoe 26 via slot 62. The extendible assembly 60 includes a star wheel 611 with a cylindrical stem 66 extending into a blind opening 68 on piston 42 and a threaded item 70 cooperating with a spacer 72 having internal threads 74. The adjoining ends 80 et 82 of respective brake shoes 24 and 26 define a space therebetween which is occupied by the wheel cylinder and the extendible assembly. The offset wheel cylinder 36 occupies substantially one half of the space, while the extendible assembly 60 occupies one half the space. The wheel cylinder 36 is offset toward the trailing brake shoe 211 and the extendible assembly is adjoining the leading brake shoe 26.A retraction spring 84 cooperates with the pair of brake shoes in a manner discribed hereinafter to bias the latter to a non braking position wherein each respective brake shoe 24 and 26 is abutting the bottom of slots 41 and 62 and the piston projection 50 is abutting the piston bottom wall 52. In order to control extension of the extendible assembly 60 an adjusting pawl 90 is engageable with the star wheel 64 to impart rotation to impart rotation to the star wheel 64 in response to an excessive clearance between the pair of brake shoes and a rotating drum 65. The adjusting pawl 90 is pivotally carried on a connecting member 92 and is provided with a first arm 94 abutting a side wall 96 of the star wheel 64 at an intermediate radial position. A second arm 98 of the adjusting pawl 90 is engageable with ratchet teeth on the outer periphery of the star wheel. A pivot pin 100 secures the adjusting pawl 90 to the connecting member 92.The connecting member 92 extends into an opening 102 in brake shoe 24 to move with the latter during braking. The retraction spring 84 extends from an opening 104 in brake shoe 26 to an opening 106 in the connecting member to urge the connecting member and brake shoe 24 in the direction of brake shoe 26. Viewing Figures 1 and 2, the wheel cylinder 36 includes a pair of openings 108 and 110 for fixedly receiving a pair of plugs 112 and 114 In the alternative, this pair of plugs could be integral with the wheel cylinder. The pair of plugs include recesses 116 and 118 and the connecting member 92 includes slots 120 and 122 for receiving the respective plugs 112 and 114 such that the connecting member 92 is disposed within the recesses.The slot 122 leads to the opening 106 and the slot 120 leads to an opening 1211. The openings 106 and 124 are larger in diameter than the diameter of the plugs 112 and 114 so that the connecting member openings 106 and 124 are aligned with the plug recesses 116 and 118 and the end of the connecting member is inserted in the brake shoe opening 102 before the spring 84 is attached to the connecting member via opening 106. The spring biases the connecting member toward the brake shoe 26 to movably support the connecting member within the recesses 116 and 118. In the non braking position illustrated, the plugs 112 and 114 are disposed to the right side of the respective slots 120 and 122. As the brake shoes 24 and 26 experience lining wear,the extendible assembly is operable to increase the dimension of the space between adjoining ends 80 and 82. This compensation for lining wear causes the plugs 112 and 114 to be repositioned away from the right end of slots 120 and 122 toward, but spaced from, the openings 124 and 106. During a brake application, the brake shoes 24 and 26 are urged by the wheel cylinder and extendible assembly to separate from each other. The piston 42 biases the star wheel 64 to move to the left, viewing Figure 1, while the brake shoe 24 pulls the connecting member 92 to the right. With the arm 94 abutting the side wall of star wheel 64, the adjusting pawl 90 is pivoted counterclockwise about pin 100. Il the clearance between the brake shoes and rotatable drum is excessive, the pivoting motion of the adjusting pawl 90 will cause the arm 98 to index to a successive ratchet tooth on the star wheel. Consequently, upon termination of braking, the spring 130 which extends from the connecting member 92 to the adjusting pawl 90 causes the latter to rotate clockwise about pin 100 and impart rotation to the star wheel to extend the extendible assembly 60. This action enables the extendible assembly to cooperate with the abutting pair of pistons to reposition the pair of brake shoes in closer proximity to the rotatable drum.