# A low fat comestible spread and a process for the preparation thereof.

## Abstract
The spread comprises an oil in water emulsion having stably dispersed therein about 20 to about 40 fat, a lipoidal emulsifier, a water soluble or dispersible thickening agent for the water, and advantageously, flavor and colorant, the fat having a Wiley Melting Point in the range of about 24 C. to about 41 C., a solid fat index at 33.5 C. not substan tially greater than about 20 and a solid fat index at 37.5 C, not substantially greater than zero. A preferred emulsifier is a normally plastic partial fatty acid ester of a polyalcohol having an HLB value less than about 5. A preferred thickening agent is a cellulose ether, advantageously in combination with a thixotropic thickening agent. The process features homogenizing the thickened oil in water emulsion with the fat advantageously in molten condition, then setting up the emulsion in a plastic state by cooling same.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A low fat comestible spread consisting essentially of a fat, an oil soluble or dispersible lipoidal emulsifier, a water soluble or dispersible, edible thickening agent having surface active properties, and water, characterized in that said spread is an oil in water emulsion having about 20 to about 40 by weight of a low melting point fat the proportions of ingredients being such as to produce an emulsion having a plastic consistency and a Brookfield viscosity of at least about 100,000 centipoises through a temperature range of about 30 to 320C., said plastic consistency being similar to that of a mayonnaise, cheese spread or non flowable margarine said fat having a WileyMelting Point in the range of about 240C. to about 410C. and a solid fat index at 37.50C. not substantially greater than zero said emulsifier being plastic in consistency having a Capillary Melting Point less than about 570C. and an HLB value not substantially greater than 5. 2. A spread according to claim 1, characterized in that said fat is present in the proportion of about 20 to about 28 based on the total weight of the spread, said fat having a solid fat index at 330C. not substantially above about 20. 3. A spread according to claim 1 or 2f characterized in that said lipoidal emulsifier is a normaLLy plastic partial fatty acid ester of a polyalcohol an is present in the proportion of about 1 to about 5 based on the weight of the spread. 4. A spread according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized by having thixotropic properties. 5. A spread according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that said thickening agent is a cellulose ether. 6. A spread according to any one of claims 1 to 4, characterized in that said thickening agent comprises, based on the weight of the spread, about 0.5 3.258 of a blend of about 0.25 2.08 hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose and about 0 25 1.25 of a mixture of about 8 parts by weight microcrystalline cellulose to about 1 part by weight sodium carboxymethyl cellulose, said spread having a viscosity in the range of about 100,000 to about four million centipoises. 7. A spread according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that said fat is a blend of a normally liquid edible oil and a normally solid hydrogenated vegetable fat, in the proportions necessary to give said normally liquid oil having a sufficiently high linoleic acid content and said normally solid fat having a sufficient ly low saturated fatty acid content to obtain, when used in said proportions, a poly unsaturated saturated p s ratio of 1 or more. 8. A spread according to claim 7, characterized in that said normally liquid oil is corn oil IV 110 128 , and said normally solid fat is a hydrogenated vegetable oil having a Wiley Melting Point in the range of about 360C. to about 380C., an approximate solid fat index of Temperature Approximate OC. Solid Fat Index 10 72 22 63 27 55 33 25 38 5 max. 43 0 and a saturated fatty acid content of about 34 . 9. A method of making a comestible spread according to any of claims 1 to 8, characterized by the steps of dispersing the thickening agent in the water, forming an oil in water emulsion of said water and the lipoidal and lipoidal soluble ingredients, and homogenizing the emulsion to a fine particle size, salt being added in flavoring amounts and mixed into the spread subsequent to homogenization. 10. A process according to claim 9, characterized in that the fat, water, the oil in water lipoidal emulisfier, and water soluble or water dispersible, edible thickening agent are mixing together in the proportions on a weight basis of about 20 to 40 low melting point fat 0.5 to 3.25 thickening agent, about 2 5 emulsifier and water said thickening agent comprising a blend of a cellulose ether and a gum capable of imparting thixotropic properties to said spread emulsifying, at an elevated temperature sufficient to make the fat molten, said fat and lipoidal emulsifier in water containing said thickening agent dispersed therein to form an oil in water emulsion and cooling the resulting emulsion to a temperature sufficiently low to provide a plastic consistency in the finished product similar to that of a non flowable spread, said emulsion having a Brookfield viscosity in the range of about 100,000 to about four million centipoises through a temperature range of about 320C. to 30C.

## Description
LOW FAT COMESTIBLE SPREAD SUBSTITUTES The present invention relates to novel low at comestible spreads. The present invention will be particularly described with reference to a spread which resembles margarine or butter in taste, texture and appearance, but it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the present invention also has application to other viscous, or what can be termed plastic, spreads, for instance a spread resembling mayonnaise or a cheese spread in taste, texture and appearance. Conventional margarine contains about 80 fat.Low calorie margarine substitute products are well known and on the market which have a much lower fat content, for instance about 40 to 60 by weight fat. On such spread is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 3,360,377. The spread of this patent is identified as a low calorie margarine substitute in the form of a water in oil emulsion. In all of the examples of the patent, the fat content is about 395. The essence of the method of this patent appears to reside in the steps taken to ensure that the water in oil emulsion is formed and maintained. Also typical of the prior art is U.S. Patent No.4,071,634, describing a low fat spread containing a continuous plastic fatty phase and a dispersed protein aqueous phase, the aqueous phase containing both phosphatides and a fatty phase. The total fat content in the examples of this patent appears to be within the range conventionally employed in prior art spreads. The reason why the art has not gone to lower per centages by weight in fat content is the difficulty experienced in maintaining oil as the continuous phase that is, preparing a stable emulsion. Both of the above patents are directed to the problem of improving emulsion stability.A fat in a margarine substitute should have a melting point and dilatometric profile close to that of fat in a margarine so that it is quickly melted when used, for instance on corn or toast, and can be consumed without leaving a waxy mouthfeel. However, fats generally used for the preparation of margarine substitutes have melting points and dilatometric profiles more appropriate for achieving emulsion stability than duplicating the properties of fats used in conventional margarine. The present invention resides in the discovery that a low fat containing oil in water emulsion can be prepared which has the properties of a non flowable margarine, or other such spreads, wherein the fat employed is the discontinuous phase. 8y not relying upon the fat for emulsion stability, a fat more suitable for duplicating the properties of butter or other such spreads can be utilized. At the same time, the fat content is substantially reduced, providing a spread which is lower in calorie content than conventional margarine substitutes or srreads. Specifically, the present ir.N ntion resides in a low fat comestible spread, similar ir. properties to a non flowable margarine or other such spreads, comprising an oil in water emulsion having stably dispersed therein about 20 to about 40 , preferably about 20 to about 28 , of a low melting point fat an oil soluble or dispersible lipoidal emulsifier a water soluble or dispersible edible thickening agent and, optionally, butter or other flavor and colorant the fat having a Wiley Melting Point in the range of about 240C. to about 410C., generally, a solidfat index at 330C. of less than about 20, and a solid fat index at 380C. not substantially greater than zero, the proportions of ingredients being such as to produce a consistency similar to a non flowable margarine or other spread. In the practice of the present invention, the lowfat spread is prepared by heating a portion of the water to an elevated temperature, for instance about 820C. to 880C., and then adding to such water the water soluble or dispersible ingredients such as the edible thickening agent plus colorant. The remainder of the water is then added, followed by admixing with the water a pre blend of the fat and fat soluble or dispersible ingredients such as the emulsifier and flavorant, and then homogenization and cooling of the entire mixture. Salt may be added to enhance flavor, preferably subsequent to homogenization and cooling. The spread of the present invention has the same mouth feel, organoleptic qualities, taste and appearance as margarine or other such spreads, melts down in the same way as margarine or other such spreads, and has good stability, with no phase separation after three months at 40C. For purposes of the present application, the term consistency similar to a non flowable margarine or other spread shall mean that the spread of the present invention shall be in a highly viscous, non flowable, spoonable state and plastic in consistency, at normal temperatures. The consistency can be deemed to be intermediate a f wable state and a hard or brittle state. The term normal or normally unless otherwise indicated shall mean that phase condition which exists from refrigeration to ordinary room or ambient temperature, e.g., 3 320C. A unique characteristic of the spread of the present invention is that it is plastic at both refrigeration temperature, e.g. 30C., and at high room temperature, e.g. 320C. Also, for purposes of the present application, the term homogenization means that process of putting incompatible or immiscible components into a stabilized suspension in a liquid medium. Many types of homogenization equipment have been developed to perform this function. Most conventional types of homogenizers function by passing the product under pressure between closely clearing but relatively fixed surfaces. The high velocity, hydraulic shear, pressure release and impact rend the dispersed phase into a very fine state of subdivision of the order of 1 micron or smaller in diameter. The fat phase of the present invention can be any low melting point fat having a Wiley Melting Point in the range of about 240 to about 410C., preferably about 24 0C. to about 37 C., and a solid fat index as above specified, or a blend of a fat with a liquid oil such as corn oil, the proportions of such blend being such as to meet the above specifications. One suitable low melting point fat is Cirol trademark, SCM Corporation , a partially hydrogenated cottonseed, soybean oil blend having a Wiley Melting Point of about 320C. to 350C. and an approximate solid fat index profile as listed below, along with such typical profile for butterfat which also can be used for part or all of the fat in the instant product Table 1 Approximate Temperature, Solid Fat Indices OC. Cirol Butterfat 10 32.1 31 22 22.9 12 27 16.7 9 33 5.5 3 38 0 0Cirol has a free fatty id content of about 0.05 maximum. Another suitable low melting point fat is Kaola trademark, SCM Corporation , a partially hydrogenated soybean, coconut oil blend having a Wiley Melting Point of about 310 340C. and an approximate solid fat index of Temperature, Approximate C. Solid Fat Index 10 45 56 22 10 14 27 5 6 33 1 2 38 0 Kaola has a free fatty acid content of 0.05 maximum. Coconut oil Wiley Melting Point of about 240C. may also be used. A preferred fat useful in the process of the present invention for blending with a liquid oil is a fractionated hydrogenated vegetable oil marketed under the trademark Kaomel trademark, SCM Corporation , a blend of cottonseed and soybean oils having a Wiley Melting Point in the range of about 360C. to about 380C. and an approximate solid fat index as shown in the following Table 2 Table 2 Approximate Solid Fat Indices Temperature, Elaidinized OC. Kaomel Blend 10 72 61 22 63 49 27 55 42 33 25 16 38 5 max. 0.6 43 0 0 A similar cottonseed soybean blend hydrogenated to obtain an elaidinized fat useful in the present invention has a Wiley Melting Point of about 37 50C. and SFI data also as shown in the above Table 2. This fat is also useful by itself. Another suitable fat useful in a hard fat oil blend in the composition of the present invention is Paramount XX trademark, SCM Corporation having a Wiley MeltingPoint 470 to 480C. and a solid fat index of Temperature, Approximate OC. Solid Fat Index 10 68 22 58 27 52 33 30 38 19 43 12 max. Still another suitable fat useful in a hard fatoil blend in the composition of the present invention isSatina AB trademark, SCM Corporation having a Wiley MeltingPoint of 320 to 340C. and a solid fat index of Temperature, Approximate OC. Solid Fat Index 10 70 76 22 65 71 27 53 59 33 2 max. 38 0 Hydrogenated palm kernel oil may also be used in the composition of the present invention, having a Wiley MeltingPoint of 350 440C., in a blend with an edible oil. Any edible oil conventionally employed in foods can be used, for instance cottonseed oil IV 99 121 peanut oil IV 84 102 safflower oil IV 138 151 soybean oil IV 125 138 sunflower oil IV 122 139 and corn oil IV 110 128 . The Iodine Value of typical butterfat is 25 42. A blend of 45 corn oil and 55 Kaomel gives a fat phase having a Wiley Melting Point of about 340C.and a solid fat index profile of Temperature, Approximate OC. Solid Fat Index 10 30 40 22 19 29 27 10 20 33 0 4 38 0 The advantage of employing a blend of an oil such as corn oil and a high solids fat such as KaOrnel is that it can provide a highly polyunsaturated lipid phase having a polyunsaturated saturated p s ratio of 1 or more.Refined corn oil and Kaomel, when used in the proportion of 45 corn oil 55 Kaomel, gives a p s ratio of 1, calculated as follows Table 3 Cis Cis Saturated MIPUFA FA Corn Oil 57.0 14.6 Kaomel 0.0 34.4 0.57 x 45 25.65 0.146 x 45 0.344 x 55 25.49 1 Methylene Interrupted Polyunsaturated Fatty Acid Fatty Acid Kaomel has a high elaidic acid content so that it has a relatively low saturated fatty acid content. Thus when used in the above proportion with corn oil, the desired p s ratio of 1 or more is obtained. By contrast, a hard fat such as Paramount XX has a much lower elaidic acid content and a relatively higher saturated fatty acid content.To obtain a p s ratio of 1 or more, the blend would have to contain as much as 79 cottonseed oil with only 21 Paramount XX. This would not provide a fat blend having aWiley Melting Point in the range of about 240C. to about 370C., and thus would not provide an emulsion having the functionality consistency of the highest quality of table margarine or other such spread. The functionality of mar garine could be obtained with a much higher Paramount XX content, and such a blend of Paramount XX and cottonseed oil, by way of example, could be employed if the p s ratio was not a consideration. The oil soluble or dispersible lipoidal emulsifier is a critical component of the present invention. Normally, for an oil in water emulsion, one skilled in the art would select a high HLB emulsifier favoring such an emulsion. In the present invention it was found unexpectedly that a lowHLB, plastic, lipoidal emulsifier, in combination with the thickening agent, to be described, gave the relatively stiff plastic emulsion consistency desired. By plastic emulsifier, it is meant normally semi solid or pasty in consistency, at room temperature, as compared to either hard or fluid.By lipoidal, it is meant fat resembling. Thus, preferred emulsifiers useful in the process of the present invention are plastic partial fatty acid esters of polyalcohols, such as the partial fatty acid esters of glycerol and propylene glycol, having a low HLB value, not substantially greater than about 5, and a Capillary Melting Point less than about 1350F. but sufficiently high to have a normally plastic consistency . A particularly preferred partial fatty acid ester of glycerol is a mono and diglyceride such as Dur em 204 trademark, SCM Corporation , a monoand diglyceride from hydrogenated vegetable oil having 52 minimum a monoglyceride. This emulsifier has an IV of 65 75 and a Capillary Melting Point of 490 540C.Also useful in the process of the present invention is a 40 a monoglyceride, such as Dur em 114 trademark, SCM Corporation , having a Capillary Melting Point of 430 49 C. and an IV of 70 80. Both Dur em 204 and Dur em 114 haveHLB values cf about 2.8. Still another useful partial glycerol ester emulsifier is Myverol 18 85 trademark,Eastman Chemical Products, Inc. , a distilled monoglyceride having about 90 minimum monoglyceride, and congeal point of 460C. Capillary Melting Point about 1300F. . An example of a suitable fatty acid ester of propylene glycol is a monopalmitate or monomyristate, having a propylene glycol monoester content of 50 minimum, an HLB value of about 3, and a Capillary Melting Point less than about 520C. Another class of emulsifiers useful in the present invention, of low HLB value and plastic in consistency Capillary Melting Point less than about 1350F. are the glyceryl lacto esters of fatty acids, such as a glycerol lacto palmitate or glycerol lacto myristate having an HLB value of about 2.4 and a Capillary Melting Point of less than about 46 C. These compounds have a monoglyceride content of about 7 128. It is possible to employ a blend of emulsifiers, such as a blend of an ethoxylated mono and diglyceride with a mono and diglyceride. For instance, Durfax EOM trademark, SCM Corporation , an ethoxylated mono and diglyceride having a saponification value of 65 75, an hydroxyl value of 65 80, a Capillary Melting Point of about 27029CC. and an HLB value of about 13.1 can be blended with a monoand diglyceride. One such blend is a combination of about 6 Durfax EOM and about 94 Dur em 204 or Dur em 114. Also, one could use a blend of propylene glycol mono esters and mono and diglycerides such as EC 25 trademark, SCM Corporation having a Capillary MeltingPoint of 350 410C. and an HLB value of about 2.6. The fat content, exclusive of the emulsifier, should be in the range of about 20 40 , preferably about 20 28 , based on the entire weight of the emulsion. The small proportion of emulsifier employed should be an emulsifying amount which, when combined with other ingredients of the spread, gives a stable oil in water emulsion after homogenization and at lower temperatures and a viscosity of at least 100,00 centipoises at refrigeration to room temperatures, as determined on a Brookfield Synchro Lectric Viscometer Model RVT utilizing a Brookfield Helipath Stand Model C and bar TA to TF. Preferably, the emulsifier is present in an amount of about 1 5 , and more preferably 2 5 , also based on the entire weight of the emulsion. The thickening agent of the present invention can be broadly any edible water dispersible or soluble thickener conventionally employed in foods. Typical such thickeners are gum arabic gum tragacanthr gum karaya locust bean gum guar gum agar agar aligin or alginates carrageenan pectin gelatin starch and starch derivatives algin derivatives such as propylene glycol alginate cellulose derivatives such as carboxymethyl cellulose, methyl cellulose and hydroxypropyl cellulose and low methoxyl pectin. The concentration of thickening agent employed is largely dependent upon the particular thickener employed. The main criterion is that it be present in a thickening amount sufficient to provide substantially the consistency of conventional margarine or other such spread in the finished product. Preferably, the thickening agent of the present invention is one having surface active properties. Thus, a preferred class of thickening agents are the cellulose ethers, prepared for instance by reacting cellulose with appropriate chemical reagents in the presence of caustic soda. Included are such compounds as hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose Methocel K, trademark, Dow Chemical Company , methyl cellulose Methocel A, trademark, Dow ChemicalCompany , hydroxybutylmethyl cellulose Methocel HB, trademark, Dow Chemical Company , and hydroxypropyl cellulose Klucel, trademark, Hercules, Inc. . An especially preferred such compound is Methocel K 1OOM trademark,Dow Chemical Company , having a viscosity of about 100,000 centipoises viscosities herein are determined by ASTM method D 2363 65T .Effective results were also obtained with other such cellulose ether compounds commercially available, such as Methocel X 15M viscosity 15,000 centipoises , and Methocel K 100 viscosity 100 centipoises . An advantage in the use of the emulsifiers of the present invention and the cellulose ethers in combination is that the combination provides an unexpectedly viscous, stable emulsion, even in the presence of as little as about 208 fat. The reason for this is not known, although the effect of use of these two ingredients appears to be sner gistic, that is, greater than would be expected from combined use of the ingredients. Specifically, the emulisifier and thickener in small proportions provide a viscosity of more than 100,000 to four million centipoises as determined on the RVT Brookfield Viscometer, supra . In a preferred embodiment of the present invention, a combination of thickening agents was used hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose e.g., Methocel K 1OOM, trademark, TheDow Chemical Company and Avicel trademark, FMC Corporation , the latter a mixture of 89 cellulose gel microcrystalline cellulose and 11 cellulose gum sodium carboxymethyl cellulose . The Methocel K 1OOM advantageously is used in a proportion of about 0.25 2.00 , based on the entire weight of the composition, and the Avicel is used in a proportion of about 0.25 to 1.25 , also based on the entire weight of the composition. The advantage in using the above combination of thickening agents is that theAvicel, in addition to causing thickening of the emulsion, imparts a high thixotropy to same, thereby enhancing spreading characteristics of the spread when used.In addition, this thickening agent assists in the homogenization of the product. It is characteristic of the present invention that proteins such as skim milk solids, sodium caseinate and sodium protein isolate will not normally be used, although small amounts in combination with a gum such as carrageenan, to give the desired thickening or bodying effect, could if desired be employed. In this respect, it is understood that the formulations of the present invention can also contain certain other typical ingredients such as flavorings e.g., butter flavors, cheese flavors, and mayonnaise flavors colorants, vitamins, minerals, and other such ingredients which do not in small amounts contribute directly to the functional or organoleptic properties of the formulation.Carbohydrates, such as corn syrup solids, lactose, fructose, dextrose, and sucrose, and maltodextrins could also be added to impart sweetness to the spreads of the present invention. The following Examples are illustrative of the concepts of the present invention. In the following Examples, percentages are percentages by weight and temperatures are in degrees Fahrenheit, unless otherwise specified. EXAMPLE 1 In this Example, the following formulation was employed Table 4 Ingredient PercentRefined de waxed corn oil 11.25Hydrogenated cottonseed soybean oil Kaomel 13.75Emulsifier, Dur em 114 40 minimum a monoglyceride 4.0Hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose Methocel K 1OOM 0.5Salt 1.5Cellulose gel and cellulose gum Avicel RC 581 0.5Artificial Butter Flavor 4177 trademark, Cromptom Knowles 0.1Beta carotene 0.09Water some added as ice 68.31 Total 100.00 The spread of the present invention was prepared by heating about one half of the water in a vat to 880C., then adding the thickening agents Methocel and Avicel to the heated water. The water was held at this temperature for 15 minutes with continuous mixing. The color betacarotene then was added. The remainder of the water then was added as ice to the heated mixture, reducing the temperature to 210C. This procedure insures solution of the Methocel, which precipitates at elevated temperatures, into the water.The mixture was then reheated to 540C., and a pre melted blend of the fats, emulsifier and flavor was added thereto.The heating was intensified to obtain a temperature of about 680C., and this temperature was held for about 30 minutes.Then the mixture was homogenized with the fat still molten at about 2,000 1,000 psig, in a continuous two stage dairy type homogenizer, to produce a fine particle size emulsion.The salt was mixed into the resulting plastic mixture subsequent to this homogenization and cooling of the homogenized emulsion to about 160C. The spread then was packaged in suitable containers and stored at 40C. until used. This cooling developed viscosity of four million centipoises, as measured by the Brookfield Viscometer supra , a property which was not fully lost upon rewarming to room temperature 210C. . At 210C., the product was still plastic in the sense it was still spoonable. The spread of this Example had virtually the same consistency, taste, and appearance as a good conventional table margarine. Such spread can be maintained 3 months at 400F. without phase separation. Other ingredients can be added to the emulsion in accordance with known techniques in the art. For instance, different colorants can be added and different flavorings and sweeteners can be used, for instance corn syrup solids, maple syrup and honey. To obtain a high p s polyunsaturated fat to saturated fat ratio, the normally liquid oil of the present invention when used in a blend with a normally solid fat should have a large amount of polyunsaturation linoleic acid . Corn oil has 57 linoleic acid sunflower oil, 68M safflower oil, 778 cottonseed, 538 and soybean, 53 all approximate . The conventional margarine referred to in this application is a table margarine for use on toast, etc., as distinguished from a baker s margarine compounded for special baking tasks.The ultimate melting characteristic of the useful fats at 37.50C. for the instant product, for best organoleptic character, preferably is one that yields absolutely no solids, but a maximum of several percent solids at this temperature can be tolerated with modest product impairment if the Wiley Melting Point characteristic is met. EXAMPLE 2 In this Example, the following formulation was employed Table 5 Ingredient Percent Elaidinized fat of Table 2 20.0Emulsifier, Dur em 114 40 minimum a monoglyceride 4.0Hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose Methocel K 1OOM 0.5Salt 1.5Cellulose gel and cellulose gum Avicel RC 581 0.5Special margarine flavor Standard Brands, included in fat 1.0Beta carotene 0.09Sodium benzoate and potassium sorbate 0.1 eachWater some added as ice 72.21 Total 100.00 The spread was prepared following the procedure of Example 1. The spread had virtually the same consistency, taste, and appearance as a good conventional table margarine, similar to Example 1.On cooling to about 40C., the spread had a viscosity of about four million centipoises and as inExample 1, a spoonable, very plastic viscosity at room temperature 210C. . EXAMPLE 3 This Example illustrates the preparation of a low fat spread having a consistency similar to that of a good mayonnaise. The following formulation was employed Table 6 Ingredient PercentRefined de waxed corn oil 11.25Hydrogenated cottonseed soybean oil Kaomel 13.75Emulsifier, Dur em 114 40 minimum a monoglyceride 3.0 Hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose Methocel K 100M 0.5 Table 6 continued Ingredient PercentSalt 1.5Cellulose gel and cellulose gum Avicel RC 581 0.5Beta carotene 0.08Sodium benzoate and potassium sorbate 0.01 eachWater some added as ice 70.31 Total 100.00 The spread was made by the procedure of Example 1.On cooling to about 40C., the spread developed a viscosity of about 200,000 centipoises, as measured by the BrookfieldViscometer supra . A high quality mayonnaise, for instanceHellmann s Real Mayonnaise, has a viscosity of about 224,000 centipoises. EXAMPLE 4 This Example illustrates the preparation of a lowfat spread having a consistency, taste, and appearance similar to a high quality pasteurized, processed cheese spread. The following formulation was employed Table 7 Ingredient Percent Elaidinize fat of Table 2 23.0Emulsifier, Dur em 114 40 minimum a monoglyceride 2.0 Hydroxyproylmethyl cellulose Methocel K 1OOM 0.5Salt 0.5 Cellulose gel and cellulose gum Avicel RC 581 0.5Cheese Powder trademark, Borden Company 15.0Sodium benzoate and potassium sorbate 0.1 eachWater some added as ice 58.3 Total 100.0 The spread was prepared following the procedure of Example 1, and on cooling, developed a viscosity of two to three million centipoises, as measured by the BrookfieldViscometer supra By comparison, a cheese spread CheezWhiz , a pasteurized, processed cheese spread manufactured by the Kraft Company, has a viscosity of about 2,600,000 centipoises. It is understood that, in place of the cheese flavor of this Example, one could add other flavors, such as fruit flavors, maple flavors and the like.