# Hydraulic excavator for wells.

## Abstract
Such excavator comprises a supporting column 1 of structural cross section, a hydraulic pump 2 and associated control box 13 for feeding the hydraulic system, a motor 3 driving said pump 2 . an articulated arm 4 , a working tool 5 and a control system 6 for the arm 4 and the tool 5 . A pivot 11 extending with its axis parallel to the vertical longitudinal axis of the column 1 is mounted on the projection 1d of the column 1 and the articulated arm 4 is secured by means of the hinge 16 to the pivot. Such pivot 11 permits the articulated arm 4 to be rotated through 180 DEG about the axis of the pivot. The hinges 16 also permit the articulated arm 4 to be lifted. The working tool 5 is mounted at the distal end of the portion 4b of the articulated arm 4 . All rotary movements of the articulated arm and its portions as well as the working tool are hydraulically controlled by means of hydraulic rams 12, 4c, 4d and 5a . The motor 3 is an electric motor or an internal combustion engine and may be located adjacent the column 1 or outside the well 21 . The column 1 is secured by means of the brackets 7 to anchoring means 8 or by means of the guide 1a to a rail on 20 of the well 21 . In this manner the excavator can perform its excavating work within the well by penetrating gradually more and more thereinto as the depth on the well increases. A plurality of anchoring means or rails may be mounted at the same depth of the wall of the well to give the excavator a range of maneuvrability of 360 DEG . This excavator permits to make vertical or inclined wells of any cross section and shape, particularly wells of small diameter or of oblong cross sectional shape which cannot be made by conventional excavators. Further, this excavator is particularly useful for excavations under difficult working conditions such as in places that are not easily accessible or cannot be easily supplied with electric power.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Hydraulic excavator for wells, comprising a supporting column 1 of structural cross section a hydraulic pump 2 and associated control box 13 for feeding the hydraulic system a motor 3 driving said pump 2 a hydraulically operated articulated arm 4 having one end mounted on a pivot 11 secured to the column 1 to permit 0 rotation of the arm through 180 about its axis extending parallel to the longitudinal axis of the column 1 a detachable working tool 5 connected to the opposite end of said arm 4 , said working tool being likewise hydraulic cally operated, and a control system 6 for guiding the arm 4 and the tool 5 , said column 1 serving as a supporting frame receiving the other parts of the excavator and for anchoring and the descent of the excavator along the wall cf the well, said arm 4 being driven by a pair of hydraulic rams 12 for rotation about the axis of said pivot 11 and being pivotally connected by the hinges 16 to said pivot to permit the arm also to be lifted. 2. Excavator according to claim 1, characterized in that a dovetailed groove la extends longitudinally through the portion of the column 1 facing the wall of the well to permit the column to be secured to a rail fixed on the jacket of the well so that the excavator can be moved hydraulically in the manner of a lift. 3. Excavator according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the column has an L shaped head portion lib provided with a hook inc at the end facing the arm 4 to permit the excavator to be suspended in a balanced position. 4. Excavator according to claim 1, characterized in that said articulated arm 4 is of the telescoping type of variable length. 5. Excavator according to claim 1, characterized in that the motor 3 is an electric motor. 6. Excavator according to claim 1, characterized in that the motor 3 is an internal combustion engine. 7. Excavator according to claim 5 or 6, characterized in that the motor is mounted directly on the excavator or located outside the well. 8. Excavator according to any of the preceding claims, characterized in that the working tool is a bucket of a shape and size adapted for the type of excavating work. 9. Excavator according to claim 8, characterized in that the bucket is mounted in inverted position. 10. Excavator according to one of claims 1 to 7, characterized in that the working tool is a demolishine hammer. 11. Excavator according to one of claims 1 to 7, characterized in that the working tool is a drill column. 12. Use of the excavator according to claim 1 for making vertical or inclined wells cf any cross section and shape, particularly of small cross section.

## Description
Hydraulic excavator for wells The present invention relates to a hydraulic excavator for wells, particularly for wells of small cross section and of any form and position. It is known that in the construction of wells having dimensions greater than a predetermined value no particular difficulties are encountered with regard to the dimensions of the type of machine to be used as the latter will go down into the well according to the degree of advance of the bottom thereof while an external crane or other system of transport will remove the excavated material. Therefore, the selection of the machine and its power is within certain limits only determined by the m h to be obtained and the particular geological configuration of the ground. However, serious difficulties arise when wells are to be made of dimensions such that the excavator, which may be of the type supported on pedestals or wheels or caterpillars, cannot completely penetrate into the well as the latter advances in its construction, so that the excavation and the depth of the well are limited only by the dimensions length of the excavator arm. It is an object of the present invention to eliminate this disadvantage by providing an excavator for making vertical or inclined wells of any cross section, form and depth, particularly wells of dimensions and forms that cannot be achieved by the other types of excavators. The excavator according to the invention comprises a supporting column of structural cross section a hydraulic pump and associated control box for feeding the hydraulic system a motor driving said pump a hydraulically operated articulated arm having one end mounted on a pivot secured to the column to permit rotation of the arm through 180 about its axis extending parallel to the longitudinal axis of the column a detachable working tool connected to the opposite end of said arm, said working tool being likewise hydraulically operated, and a control system for guiding the articulated arm and the working tool, said column serving as a supporting frame receiving the other parts of the excavator and for anchoring and the descent of the excavator along the wall of the well, said articulated arm being driven by a pair of hydraulic rams for rotation about the axis cf said pivot and being pivotally connected by hinges to said pivot to permit the articulated arm also to be lifted. The accompanying drawings show a preferred, not limiting embodiment of the excavator in question. Fig. 1 is a side view of an excavator according to the invention Fig. 2 is a top plan view of the excavator in its position on a well to be prepared, and Fig. 3 is a side view of the excavator in its operative position within the well. Now hereafter a description will be given of a parti ocular embodiment of the invention with reference to theFigures of the accompanying drawings without, for the rest, taking away anything from the generality of the invention. The excavator comprises a supporting column 1 having a structural shape for supporting the other parts of the excavator and serving for coupling the excavator to anchoring means provided on the inner jacket 20 of the well 21, the jacket 20 being made of concrete. The supporting column 1 is appropriately shaped to permit it to be anchored by means of brackets 7 and bolts 8 to the inner jacket 20 of the well 21. Alternatively the supporting column 1 may have a groove la of appropriately shaped cross section to permit it to be guided on a rail secured to the inner jacket of the well 21, so that with the further addition of a hydraulic control unit the excavator will behave in the manner of a lift whose upward and downward movements can be controlled by the operator. The brackets 7 may be crescent shaped to ensure a more uniform distribution of the strain and prevent the concrete from crumbling. The supporting column 1 has an L shaped head portion 1b provided with a hook ic at the end facing the excavator arm, this hook being located in the vicinity of the centre of gravity so that the excavator arm can be conveniently suspended thereon to facilitate lifting, transport and introduction of the excavator in the well to be prepared and removal of the excavator when the well is finished. The lower end portion of the supporting column is provided with a projecting shelf 1d carrying an operator s seat 9, control means 6 and a control panel 10 as well as a pivot 11 to which an articulated arm 4 is secured. The pivot 11 can be moved by a pair of hydraulic rams 12 secured to opposite sides thereof so that the articulated arm can be rotated through 1800 about the longitudinal axis of the supporting column 1. The arm 4 is composed of two portions 4a and 4b which are pivotally connected to each other. The lifting movement of the portion 4a in the vertical plane of the column is controlled by a hydraulic ram 4c and the rotary movement of the portion 4b relative to the portion 4a is controlled by a hydraulic ram 4d. The length of the arm is variable and also a telescoping arm may be mounted. The desired working tool 5 best suited for the excavation to be effected is mounted at the distal end of the portion 4b of the articulated arm 4. It may be a shovel which could also be hydraulically operated by means of the piston 5a, or an inverted bucket or a demolishing hammer or a drill column according to the required type of work. The hydraulic pump 2 is mounted on one side of the projecting shelf for feeding hydraulic fluid through a hydraulic control box 13 to the hydraulic devices of the system pistons and rams . The hydraulic fluid tank 14 is mounted on the upper portion of the column. Such pump is driven by a motor 3 which may be an electric motor or an internal combustion engine. The motor 3 may be mounted directly on the excavator beside the pump or may be located outside the well. The solution comprising an internal combustion engine located outside the well affords the advantage that the excavator can be used where no connection to electric mains is possible and by positioning the engine outside the well the air inside the well is not contaminated, thus avoiding harmful effects to the operator. Thus, this solution is particularly suitable for use in remote places where no connection to electric mains is possible. Step irons 15 on the supporting column 1 facilitate access to the operator s seat. In a typical embodiment the excavator has a height of 4 metres, a width of 1,30 metres and a length of 1,10 metres without the articulated arm and the working tool. Thus, the overall cross sectional dimensions of the excavator are very small, permitting it to be used for making wells of small diameter which cannot be made by conventional excavators. In making wells whose cross sectional dimensions do not exceed a certain value there will be a moment corresponding to a certain depth of the well, at which the conventional excavators of the type mounted on a gantry, wheels or caterpillars, cannot go any further down into the well and by using too long excavator arms the static stability of the excavator is jeopardized. The present invention permits to overcome these problems by operating in the following manner After the upper portion of the well has been initially prepared, it is lined with a concrete jacket 20 to which anchoring means or a rail is secured. The present excavator Fig. 3 is then secured to this anchoring means or rail to work on the bottom of the well and increase its depth as far as permitted by the length of the excavator arm. Then the well is lined with a new concrete jacket which may be prefabricated or formed of standard parts and further anchoring means are secured to this new jacket or alternatively the rail is extended by adding a new length of rail thereto. Then the excavator is again ready to continue its excavation work. Also a plurality of anchoring means or rails may be secured to the inner surface of the jacket 20 of the well 21 to increase the maneuvrability of the excavator within the well. In this manner, for example, the excavator may 0 be rotated through 18O about the longitudinal axis of the 0 column to cover the entire range of rotation of 360 For making inclined wells the operator may remain on the ground and control the excavator by means of an electric control panel. Also in this manner wells of any cross section, dimension and shape may be made of any desired depth and both vertically and in an inclined direction. Thus, the present invention provides a handy excavator of reduced size and high efficiency and low operating costs.This excavator is made of standard materials and suitable for making vertical or inclined wells of any desired cross section and shape, particularly for making wells of small diameter or of oblong shape. It is particularly adapted for use in remote areas that are not easily accessible and it can excavate a well depth of 12 metres per day.