# Pharmaceutical compositions.

## Abstract
A pharmaceutical composition which comprises the compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or in vivo hydrolysable ester thereof

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A pharmaceutical composition which comprises the compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or in vivo hydrolysable ester thereof EMI16.1 and a compound of formula II or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester thereof EMI16.2 wherein R1 is hydrogen, hydroxy, substituted alkyl, substituted hydroxy, thiol,substituted thiol, substituted sulphonyl, substituted sulphinyl, amino, mono or di hydrocarbyl substituted amino, or mono or di acylamino. 2. A pharmaceutical composition as claimed in claim 1 wherein R1 is hydrogen, substituted alkyl, substituted hydroxy, thiol, substituted thiol, substituted sulphonyl, substituted sulphinyl, amino, mono or di hydrocarbyl substituted amino, or mono or di acylamino. 3. A pharmaceutical composition as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the carbon atom marked in formula I is in the D configuration. 4. A pharmaceutical composition as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein R1is C1 6 alkyloxy, C1 6 alkylthio, C1 6 alkyl sulphoxude, C1 6 alkenylsulphoxide, C1 6 alkenylsulphone, C1 6 alkylsulphone, amino C1 6 alkyloxy, C1 6 alkenyloxy, C1 6 alkyloxyalkyloxy, amino, C1 6 alkylamino, di C1 6 alkylamino, aralkylamino, C1 6 alkanoylamino or di Cl 6 alkanoylamino, pentan 2,4 dion 3 yl. 5. A pharmaceutical composition as claimed in claim 4 wherein R1 is methoxy, ethoxy, propoxy, butoxy, methylthio, ethylthio, acetamidoethenylsulphone, acetamidopropenylsulphone, acetamidoethylsulphone, acetamidomethylsulphone, methylsulphone, ethylsulphone, thiocarbamate, 2 aminoethoxy, e aminopropoxy, 2 amino propoxy, vinyloxy, methoxymethoxy, ethoxymethoxy, methoxyethoxy, ethoxyethoxy, amino, methylamino, ethylamino, propylamino, butylamino, benzylamino, diethylamino, dibutylamino, acetylamino or diacetylamino. 6. A pharmaceutical composition as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein R1 is hydroxy. 7. A pharmaceutical composiiton as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein R1 is methoxy. 8. A pharmaceutical composition as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein R1 is iso butyl amino. 9. A process for the preparation of a pharmaceutical composition as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 8 which comprises bringing into association the components of said composition. 10. A pharmaceutical composition substantially as herein before described with reference to the Examples. 11. A compound of formula I and a compound of formula II as defined in claim 1 for use in the treatment of bacterial infections. 12. A method of treatment of bacterial infections which comprises administration of a compound of formula I and a compound of formula II as defined in claim 1. CLAIMS 1. A process for the preparation of a a pharmaceutical composition which comprises the compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or in vivo hydrolysable ester thereof EMI19.1 and a compound of formula II or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester thereof EMI19.2 wherein R1 is hydrogen, hydroxy, substituted alkyl, substituted hydroxy, thiol , substitfted thiol, substituted sulphonyl, substituted suiphinyl, amino, mono or di hydrocarbyl substituted amino, or mono or di acylamino which process comprises bringing into association the components of said composition. 2. , A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein R1is hydrogen, substituted alkyl, substituted hydroxy, thiol, substituted thiol substituted sulphonyl, sobstituted sulphinyl, amino, mono or di hydrocarbyl substituted amino, or mono or di acylamino. 3. A process as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the carbon atom marked in formula I is in the D configuration. 4. A process as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein RÚ is C1 6 alkyloxy, C1 6 alkylthio, C1 6 alkyl sulphoxide, C1 6 alkonylsulphoxude, C1 6 alkenylsulphone, C1 6 alkylsulphone, amino C1 6 alkyloxy, C1 6 alkenyloxy, C1 6 alkyloxyalkyloxy, amino, C1 6 alkylamino, di Cl 6 alkylamino, aralkylamino, C1 6 alkanoylamino or di Cl 6 alkanoylamino, pentan 2,4 dion 3 yl. 5. A process as claimed in claim 4 wherein R1 is methoxy, ethoxy, propoxy, butoxy, methylthio, ethylthio, acetamidoethenylsulphone, acetamidopropenylsulphone, acetamidoethylsulphone, acetamidomethylsulphone, methylsulphone, ethylsulphone, thiocarbamate, 2 aminoethoxy, e aminopropoxy, 2 amino propoxy, vinyloxy, methoixymethoxy, ethoxymethoxy, methoxyethoxy, ethoxyethoxy, amino, methylamino, ethylamino, propylamino, butylamino, benzylamino, diethylamino, dibutylamino, acetylamino or diacetylamino. 6. A process as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein R1 is hydroxy. 7. A process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein R1 is methoxy. 8. A process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein R1 is iso butyl amino.

## Description
PHARMACEUTICAL COMPOSITIONS The present invention relates to pharmaceutical compositions. In particular the invention relates to pharmaceutical compositions for treating bacterial infections in mammals including man. European Patent Publication 0003814 discloses a class of novel penicillins of general formula A or salts thereof EMI1.1 wherein A represents an optionally substituted phenyl group, a thienyl, cyclohexyl, cyclohexenyl or cyclohexadienyl group and R represents hydrogen, an alkyl, alkenyl, cycloalkyl or cycloalkenyl group, an optionally substituted phenyl, a cyclopropyl alkyl group, a hydroxy group optionally substituted by alkyl, alkenyl, cycloalkyl, phenyl or benzyl, an optionally substituted mercapto group, an alkylsulphenyl group, a free or substituted amino group, an optionally substituted piperazino or phenylalkylamino group, an acylamino group or an alkyl, aralkyl or arylsulphonyl amino group. It has now been discovered that when a compound from within the large class of compounds of formula A is formulated with clavulanic acid or a clavulanic acid derivative or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester thereof then the resulting co formulation has a particularly high activity against a wide range of bacteria. Accordingly, the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition which comprises the compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or in vivo hydrolysable ester thereof EMI3.1 and a compound of formula II or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester thereof EMI3.2 wherein Rlis hydrogen, hydroxy,substituted alkyl, substituted hydroxy, thiol, substituted thiol, substituted sulphonyl, substituted suiphinyl, amino, mono or di hydrocarbyl substituted amino, or mono or di acylamino. The carbon atcan marked in formula I is asymmetric and the compound may be derived fran the side chain having a D, L or DL configuration at that position. All forms of compound I are included in this invention. Suitably, the carbon atan marked is derived from the D configuration and is conveniently referred to as the D penicillin. Suitable salts of the compounds of formulae I and II include metal salts e.g. aluminium, alkali metal salts such as sodium or potassium alkaline earth metal salts such as calcium or magnesium and ammonium or substituted ammonium salts, for example those with lower alkylamines such as triethylamine, hydroxy lower alkylamines such as 2 hydroxyethylamine, bis 2 hydroxyethyl amine or tri 2 hydroxyethyl amine, cycloalkylamines such as bicyclohexylamine, or with procaine, dibenzylamine, N,N dibenzylethylenediamine, l ephenamine,N ethylpiperidine, N benzyl B phenethylamine, dehydroabietylamine, N, N bisdehydroabietylamine ethylene di amine, or other amines which have been used to form salts with known penicillins. Suitable in vivo hydrolysable esters of the compound of formula I include, for example acyloxyalkyl groups such as acetoxymethyl, pivaloyloxymethyl, aacetoxyethyl and a pivaloyloxyethyl groups alkoxycarbonyloxyalkyl groups, such as ethoxycarbonyloxymethyl and a ethoxycarbonyloxyethyl dialkylaminoalkyl groups such as diniethylaminomethyl, dimethylaminoethyl, diethylaminomethyl or diethylaminoethyl and lactone groups such as phthalidyl or dimethoxyphthalidyl. Preferred groups RÚ include C16 alkyloxy, C1 6 alkylthio, C1 6 alkyl sulphoxide, C1 6 alkenylsulphoxide, C1 6 alkenylsulphone, C1 6 alkylsulphone, amino C1 6 alkyloxy,C1 6 alkenyloxy, C1 6 alkyoxyallyloxy, amino, C1 6 alkylamino, di C1 6 alkylamino, aralkylamino, C1 6 alkanoylamino or diC1 6 alkanoylamino, pentan 2,4 dion 3 yl. A further preferred group R1 is hydroxy. Most suitably RÚ is methoxy, methoxy, propoxy, butoxy, methylthio, ethylthio, acetamidoethenylsulphone, acetamidopropenylsulphone, acetamidoethylsulphone, aoetamidomethylsulphone, methylsulphone, etylsulphone, thiocarbamate, 2 aminoethoxy, 3 aminoprooxy, 2 aminopropoxy, vinyloxy, methoxymethoxy, ethoxymethoxy, methoxyethoxy, ethyoxyethoxy, amino, methylamino, ethylamino, propylamino, benzylamino, diethylamino, dibutylamino, acetylamino or diacetylamino. One subgroup of compounds of the formula II comporises the compounds wherein R is hydrogen, substituted alkyl, substituted hydroxy, thiol, substituted thiol, substituted sulphonyl, substituted sulphinyl, amino, mono or di hydrocarbyl substituted amino, or mono or di acylamino. Specific compounds of formula II which may advantageously be formulated with compound I include clavulanic acid RÚ OH or a salt or ester thereof 9 0 methyclavulanic acid RÚ OCH3 or a salt or ester thereof 9 N isobutylaminodeoxyclavulanic acid RÚ NHCH2CH CH3 2 or an ester thereof. Preferred salts of clavulanic acid are the sodium and potassium salts. Preferred salts of the methyl ether RÚ och3 are the sodium, potassium and calcium salts. The isobutyl amine R R NH CH2 CH3 2 is preferably in the form of a zwitterion. In general the compositions of this invention will contain the compounds of formulae II and I in the ratio of fran 5 1 to 1 25 respectively,. More suitably this ratio will be fran 1 1 to 1 15 and preferably fran 1 2 to 1 12, for example from 1 3 to 1 10, respectively. The compositions of this invention may be presented as single or multi dose forms. In general single dose forms will contain fKm 62.5 mg to 2500 mg of the penicillin and from 25 mg to 250 mg of the synergist of formula II . These compositions may be administered once or inore times a day so that for a 70 kg human the usual total daily dose of penicillin administered is from 250 mg to 5000 mg and the usual daily dose of synergist is fran 100 mg to 1000 mg. It is possible to prepare the compositions of this invention by conventional methods of mixing and formulation, for example, as described in British Patent No. 1508977.Accordingly, the present invention also provides a process for the preparation of a pharmaceutical composition as hereinbefore described which comprises bringing into association the components of said composition. A particularly suitable form of the composition comprises a mixture of the compound of formula I and the compound of formula II sealed into glass vials or bottles. Naturally the injectable compositions of this invention are rendered sterile. The composition of this invention will be dissolvable in conventional solvents such as, for example, water for injection. The compositions of this invention may be employed for the treatment of bacterial infections due to a wide range of gram negative and gram positive bacteria such asPseudomonas aeruginosa, Klebsiella aerogenes, Escherichia coli, Staphylococcus aureus, Serratia marcescens andBacteroides fragilis, including those which produce B lactamases. Normally and preferably the active compounds are administered in a composition of this invention as hereinbefore described. Most suitably the compositions are administered to provide a peak blood level of at least 0.25 pg ml, more suitably at least 0.5 pg ml and preferably at least 1 pg ml of the compound of the formula II or salt thereof and at least 1 Vg ml, more suitably at least 2.5 pg ml and preferably at least 12.5 pg ml of a compound of the formula I . The compounds of the formula II may be prepared by the methods of British Patents Nos 1508977, 1508978, 1565209, 1566706, 1574906, 1543467, 1593275 and BelgianPatents Nos 861325, 861716, 866276 866496 and 870405. The toxicity of the compositions of this invention towards mammals, including man, is no greater than the sum of the toxicities of the individual components of the compositions. The following Examples illustrate the invention Example 1 Compounds i and ii EMI8.1 is D EMI8.2 in sterile finely divided form may be filled into sterile glass vials in the following quantities Compound i mq Compound ji m9 62.5 25 125 25 250 25 500 25 250 50 500 50 1000 100 625 50 250 125 500 125 1000 125 Example 2 Compounds i and Compound iii EMI10.1 in sterile finely divided form may be filled into sterile glass vials in the following quantities Compound i mg Compound iii mg 62.5 25 125 25 250 25 500 25 250 50 500 50 1000 100 625 50 250 125 500 125 1000 125 Biological Data Activity of compound i alone and in combination with compound iii K aerogenes strains producing both a plasmid mediated and chromosomally mediated S lactamase EMI11.1 tb SEP MIC SEP g ml SEP compound SEP i tb Klobsiella SEP aerogenes SEP comoound SEP iii SEP g ml tb SEP Strain SEP alone tb SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 10 tb Ba95 SEP 160 SEP 0.31 SEP 0.31 SEP 0.16 SEP 0.02 tb 11793 SEP 160 SEP 10 SEP S SEP 2.5 SEP 1.25 tb 11974 SEP 160 SEP 0.31 SEP 0.16 SEP 0.08 SEP 0.04 tb VA2 SEP 160 SEP 40 SEP 10 SEP 2.5 SEP 0.62 SEP tb VA5 SEP 160 SEP 80 SEP 80 SEP 20 SEP 2.5 tb VA1 SEP 160 SEP 10 SEP 5 SEP 2.5 SEP 0.31 tb VA3 SEP 160 SEP 40 SEP 10 SEP 2.5 SEP 0.31 tb BED4 SEP 106 SEP 40 20 SEP 2.5 SEP 1.25 SEP 0.31 tb BED6 SEP 160 SEP 0.62 SEP 0.31 SEP SEP 0.16 SEP 0 SEP .08 tb 160 SEP 0.31 SEP 0.31 SEP 0.16 SEP 0.04 tb SA4 SEP 160 SEP 2.5 SEP 1.25 SEP 0.31 SEP 0.08 SEP tb Geometric SEP mean SEP 160 SEP 5.0 SEP 2.1 SEP 0.81 SEP 0.19 tb SEP SEP 955 SEP confidence SEP 0.49 SEP 0.3 SEP 0.14 SEP 0.04 tb SEP limits SEP 50.9 SEP 14.4 SEP 4.5 SEP 0.9 tb Activity of compound i alone and in combination with compound iii against highly resistant E.coli strains producing a plasmid mediate ss lactamase EMI12.1 tb SEP MIC SEP g ml SEP compound SEP i tb SEP E. SEP coli SEP strain SEP compound SEP iii SEP g ml tb SEP alone tb SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 10 tb SEP JT39 SEP 160 SEP 0.16 SEP 0.16 SEP 0.08 SEP 0.02 tb SEP JT68 SEP 160 SEP 0.16 SEP 0.31 SEP 0.16 SEP 0.08 tb SEP E96 SEP 160 SEP 0.62 SEP 0.62 SEP 0.31 SEP 0.31 tb SEP E124 SEP 160 SEP 1.25 SEP 0.62 SEP 0 SEP 31 SEP 0.31 SEP 0.16 tb SEP JTh SEP 160 SEP 40 SEP 20 SEP 2.5 SEP 1.25 tb SEP E121 SEP 161 SEP 0.62 SEP 0.31 SEP 0.16 SEP 0.08 SEP tb SEP E110 SEP 160 SEP 0.16 SEP 0.16 SEP 0.08 SEP 0.02 tb SEP P19 SEP 160 SEP 0.31 SEP 0.31 SEP 0.08 SEP 0.02 tb SEP SA15 SEP 160 SEP 2.5 SEP 1.25 SEP 0.31 SEP 0.08 tb SEP JT9 SEP 160 SEP 1.25 SEP 0.62 SEP 0.08 SEP SEP 0.08 SEP tb SEP P9 SEP 160 SEP 1.25 SEP 0.62 SEP 0.16 SEP o.o8 tb Geometric SEP mean SEP 160 SEP 0.80 SEP 0.59 SEP 0.19 SEP 0.08 tb SEP 95 SEP confidence SEP 0.16 SEP 0.15 SEP 0.07 SEP 0.02 tb SEP limits SEP 4.1 SEP 2.2 SEP 0.53 tb Activity of compound i alone and in combination with compound iii against highly resistant strains ofPseudomonas aeruginosa producing both a plasmid and chromosomally mediated ss lactamase EMI13.1 tb SEP MIC SEP g ml SEP compound SEP i tb Pseudomonas SEP aeruginosa tb SEP compound SEP iii SEP g ml tb SEP Strain SEP alone tb SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 10 tb SEP Dalgleish SEP 160 SEP 20 SEP 10 SEP 5 SEP 10 tb P22 SEP 160 SEP 10 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 tb 1822 SEP 160 SEP 40 SEP 5 SEP 2.5 SEP 2.5 tb FR6 SEP 160 SEP 80 SEP 40 SEP 20 SEP 10 tb FR13 SEP 160 SEP 40 SEP 10 SEP 5 SEP 2.5 tb SEP Horton SEP 160 SEP 20 SEP 10 SEP 10 SEP 20 tb Geometric SEP mean SEP 160 SEP 28.3 SEP 10 SEP 6.1 SEP 6.3 tb SEP SEP 95 SEP confidence SEP 13.7 SEP 4.7 SEP 3.1 SEP 2.7 tb SEP limits SEP 58.5 SEP 21.4 SEP 12.9 SEP 14.6 tb Example 3Compounds i and iv EMI14.1 in sterile finely divided form may be filled into sterile glass vials in the following quantities Compound i mg Compound iv mg 62.5 25 125.0 25 250.0 25 500.0 25 250.0 50 500.0 50 1000.0 100 625.0 50 Biological Data Activities of the compound i against a number of pathogenic organisms alone, and in the presence of 1.0, 2.5, 5.0 and 10 pg ml of compound iv .EMI15.1 tb SEP MIC SEP g ml SEP for SEP compound tb SEP Concn SEP compound SEP 0 SEP 1.0 SEP 2.5 SEP 5.0 SEP lo tb Organis iv pg ml tb E. SEP coli SEP SEP 100 SEP 10 SEP 2.5 SEP 1.0 SEP 0.5 tb JT4 SEP R tb E. SEP coli SEP SEP 100 SEP 1,0 SEP 0.5 SEP 0.5 SEP 0.1 tb JT39 SEP R tb E. SEP coli SEP 100 SEP 1.0 SEP 0.5 SEP 0.5 SEP 0.1 tb JT39 SEP Rf tb Klebsiella SEP 5.0 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 tb aerogenes SEP A tb SEP I tb Serratia SEP marcescens tb US39 tb Pseudomonas SEP aeruginosa SEP SEP 100 SEP 10 SEP 5.0 SEP I SEP 5.0 SEP 10 tb Dalgleish SEP Undiluted tb Pseudomonas SEP aeruginosa SEP 50 SEP 2.5 SEP 1.0 SEP 1.0 SEP 2.5 tb Dalgleish SEP 10 2 tb Proteus SEP mirabilis SEP SEP 100 SEP 0.5 SEP 0.2 SEP 0.1 SEP 0.1 tb C889 tb Staphylococcus SEP aureus SEP 50 SEP 2.5 SEP 2.5 SEP 1.0 SEP SEP 1.0 tb Russell tb Serial dilution in nutrient agar, inoculum 0.001 ml of an overnight broth culture.delivering cica 106 colony forming units to the surface of the agar.