# A method of storing thermal energy and an apparatus for collecting and storing thermal energy.

## Abstract
Method of storing thermal energy and apparatus for collecting and storing it, particularly solar energy. The method makes use of a mixture of two chemical salts which above a transformation temperature combine endothermically to yield a mixture of two different salts, which different salts combine exothermically to regenerate the original mixture of salts below the transformation temperature. The thermal storage apparatus for the collection and storage of radiant solar thermal energy makes use of a heat transfer fluid in combination with a heat insulated container containing a mixture of two suitable chemical salts. A particular salt pair described is 2KNO₃ Ba OH ₂.8H₂O 2KOH.H₂O BaNO₃ 6H₂O

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method of storing thermal energy which method comprises heating from a lower temperature to a higher temperature a mixture of a first salt with a second salt the said mixture of first and second salts having a transformation temperature between the said lower and higher temperatures above which transformation temperature the anions and cations of said first salt combine endothermically respectively with the cations and anions of said second salt to form a mixture of third salt and a fourth salt, the anions and cations of said third salt combining exothermically below said transformation temperature respectively with the cations and anions of said fourth salt so as to regenerate said first and second salts. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the mixture of first and second salts is heated by bringing a hot heat exchange fluid into heat exchanging relationship with the mixture. 3. A method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the heat for heating the said mixture of first and second salts is obtained from a solar radiant thermal energy collector. A as A A method as claimed in any one of the preceding clis wherein said transformation temperature is in the range from 300C to 700 C. 5. A method as claimed in claim 4 wherein the transformation temperature is in the range from 450C to 7coy. 6. A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the enthalpy of the reaction between the first and second salts is greater than 85 kcal dm3, 7. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the first salt pair is potassium nitrate and hydrated barium hydroxide. d. An apparatus for collecting and storing thermal energy which apparatus comprises means for heating a heattransfer fluid using radiant solar thermal energy, means for conducting said heat transfer fluid into heatexchanging relationship with the contents of heatinsulated container, and a heat insulated container containing said contents, said contents comprising a mixture of first and second salts having a transformation temperature between the maximum and minimum temperatures at which sclid appirtus is to operate, above which transformation temperature the anions and cations of said first salt combine endothermically respectively with the cations and anions of said second salt to form a mixture of a third salt and a fourth salt, the anions and cations of said third salt combining exothermically below said transformation temperature respectively with the cations and anions of said fourth salt so as to regenerate said first and second salts. 9. A container containing a mixture of a first salt Iid a second salt, said mixture having a transformation tiinpernture above wliich tile anions and cations of said first sal t combine endothermically respectively with the cations and anions of said second salt to form a mixture of a third salt and fourth salt, the anions and cations of said third salt combining exothermically below said transformation temperature respectively with the cations and anions of said fourth salt so as to regenerate said first and second salts, the container being provided with instructions to use the contents as a heat storage medium.

## Description
IF STORAGE OF THEZEAL ENERGY The invention relates to the storage of thermal energy, particularly solar energy, using a combination of chemical compounds. It is known to store thermal energy using isothermic containers. If water is used as a storage material it can be heated by, for example, solar energy to, for example, 900C and then stored for use when no sunlight is available. If the water is then cooled after storage to, for example, 400C it will be clear that 50 kcal dm3 thermal energy can be stored. If used to cover the heat demands of a single family house the storage volume of water would need to be about 200 m3. This is a very large volume of water and therefore other materials have been tested with a view to finding materials which can store more thermal energy per dm3. The solar heat storage media which have been proposed and used up to now are water, rocks, salt hydrates, paraffins and other organic compounds. In water and rocks only the specific heat can be stored, while in some salt hydrates, paraffins and other organic compounds the latent heat of fusion and the specific heat can both be used for heat storage. If a temperature difference of 400C between the initial and final state of the storage system is considered, the storage capacities of some of these materials are Rocks 10 kcal dm3 Water 40 kcal dm3 Glauber s salt 115 kcal dm3 85 O Paraffins and other 70 kcal dm3 40 30 organic compounds The values given in parentheses, are the respective contributions of the enthalpies of reaction and the specific heats to the total heat storage capacities of the materials. Glauber s salt is the most used and most investigated salt hydrate because of its high heat of fusion and its low cost see, for example, A, ABHAT et alV.D.I. Berichte Nr. 288 1977 P. 97 104, and Th. JUST D.F.V.1.R. Nachrichten, Febr. 1977 Heft 20, P. 834 842 It has now been found however that the afore mentioned materials can be replaced by systems of chemical compounds which react endothermically above a certain transformation telllpel ature and which show a reverse reaction which is exotheric below thut temperature. According to the present invention there is provided a method of storing thermal energy which method comprises heating from a lower temperature to a higher temperature a mixture of a first salt with a second salt the said mixture of first and second salts having a transformation temperature between the said lower and higher temperatures above which transformation temperature the anions and cations of said first salt combine endothermically respectively with the cations and anions of said second salt to form a mixture of a third salt and a fourth salt, tulle anions and cations of said third salt combining exotheiitiically below said transformation temperature respectively with the cations and anions of said fourth salt so as to RTI ID 2.17 regenerate said first and second salts. The present invention also provides apparatus for collecting and storing thermal energy which apparatus comprises lueanS for heating a heat transfer fluid using r nt solar thermal energy, means for conducting said heat transfer fluid into heat exchanging relationship with the contents of a heat insulated container, and a heat insulated container containing said contents, said contents comprising a mixture of first and second salts having a transformation temperature between the maximum and minimum temperatures at which said apparatus is to operate, above which transformation temperature the anions and cations of said first salt combine endothermically respectively with the cations and anions of said second salt to form a mixture of a third salt and fourth salt, the anions and cations of said third salt combining exothermically below said transformation temperature respectively with the cations and anions of said fourth salt so as to regenerate said first and second salts. It will be understood that the invention also includes within its scope a container containing a mixture of a first salt and a second salt, said mixture having a transformation temperature above which the anions and cations of said first salt combine endothermically respectively with the cations and anions of said second salt to form a mixture of a third salt and fourth salt, the anions and cations of said third salt combining exothermically below said transformation temperature respectively with the cations and anions of said fourth salt so as to regenerate said first and second salts, the container being provided with instructions to use the contents as a heat storage medium. A transformation temperature between 30 and 700C is preferred. Also, the reaction enthalpy and the latent heat storage capacity of the heat storage system should be as large as possible. In the proposed heat storage system in accordance with this invention a conventional heat storage tank with indirect contact or direct contact between heat transfer liquid and storage material would conveniently be used. The heat storage material of this invention is composed of a pair of salts with different cations A, C and anions B,D . According to the phase rule of Gibbs, this salt pair will be transformed into the reciprocal salt pair at a certain transformation temperature AB CD y AD C3 The salt pair which is the stable pair at any given temperature is the one which has the smaller product of solubility products. If the product of EAB and KCD solubility products and the corresponding product for the reciprocal salt pair AD and C3, are both plotted as a function of temperature, the intersection of the two curves can be expected to give the transition temperature of pair stability.Thus it can readily be determinded whether a particular salt pair will have a suitable transformation temperature. One such salt pair is 2KNOW Ba OH 2 8H20 2KOH.H20 BaN03 6H20 The enthalpy of reaction calculated from the enthalpies of formation of the components is 160 keal dm3 and the transformation temperature determined by the solubility criterion is 650C. This reciprocal salt pair, which is formed by the cations E and boa and the anions NO3 and OH , can store 190 kcal dm3 enthalpy of reation 160 kcal dm3 and specific heat 30 kcal dm3 , when a temperature difference of 400C is assumed and when the reaction runs under optimal conditions. The latent heat storage capacity of this system 160 kcal dm3 can therefore be considered to be approximately twice that ofGlauber s salt 85 kcal dm3 which is at present considd to be one of the most favourable heat storage systems fo domestic applications. The optimum transformation temperature of a latent heat storage material for domestic applications lies between 450C and 700 C. The only hitherto known promising salt hydrate system with a transformation temperature in this temperature range is Na2B2O3.5H2O with a transformation temperature of 480C and an enthalpy of fusion of about 80 keal dm3. In the temperature range from 450C up to 700C there are however the melting points of several organic compounds, but the latent heats of fusion of these substances are only between 35 and 40 kcal dm3. This is about half of the corresponding values of salt hydrate systems. The double conversion of reciprocal salt pairs therefore offers new possibilities in short term solar energy storage at low temperatures. Some other specific salt pairs having advantageous characteristics are Salt pir Transition Enthalpy of reactionTemp. Tem. C Kcal dm 2CsBr NH4 504 49 320 4 2 2KN02 Ba OH 2.8H2O 77 132 NaCO 10 H2 0 5 95NaCO H2O 2KS.4H20 2NaNO3 Ba OH 2.8H20 72 160 NaOH.H20 KBr 52 99 LiNO3.3H20 NH4 2SO4 28 257 2LiN02.H20 Na2S04.10 H20 26 103 LiNO2.l 2H2O NaBr 93 107 2LiN03.1 2H20 SrCl2.6H02 44 100 2LiNO2.H2O Ba OH 2.8H2O 55 105 2LiF BaCl2. H2O 120 227 2LiF Ba OH 2.8H20 48 106