# Clavulanic acid derivatives, preparation and compositions.

## Abstract
This invention provides the β lactamase inhibitory compounds of the formula II The invention also relates to processes for their preparation and pharmaceutical compositions containing them.

## Claims
What we claim is 1. A compound of the formula II EMI66.1 or an ester or an acid addition salt of an ester thereof wherein R1 is an optionally substituted aromatic monocyclic or bicyclic heterocyclic C bonded group and R2 is a group CH2R1, a hydrogen atom, a C16 alkyl or hydroxyalkyl group,an optionally substituted benzyl group, or a group of the sub formula a EMI66.2 where Ra is a C13 alkyl group, and Rb and Rc are independently hydrogen, C1 3 alkyl or phenyl. 2. A compound according to claim 1 wherein RÚ is a group of the sub formula i EMI66.3 wherein one of Xl, X2, X3 and X4 is CHN , O , S or NRf where Rf is H or lower alkyl, and the others are selected from N and CH Rd is hydrogen and Re is hydrogen, lower alkyl, CN, C0211, esterified CO2H or NO2 or Rd and Re together form the residue of an optionally substituted benzene ring. 3. A compound according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the heterocyclic group contains up to 3 heteroatoms i in the ring system. 4. A compound according to any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein Rl is a furyl, thienyl, pyrrolyl, N methylpyrrolyl, pyridyl, indolyl, oxazolyl, thiazolyl or quinolyl group. 5. A compound according to any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein R2 is a hydrogen atom or a methyl, ethyl, propyl, butyl, hydroxymethyl ,hydroxyethyl or hydroxypropyl group. 6. A compound according to claim 5 wherein R2 is a hydrogen atom. 7. A compound according to any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein R2 is a group of the sub formula b EMI67.1 wherein R3 is a hydrogen, fluorine, chlorine or bromine atom or an alkyl group of 1 3 carbon atoms, an alkoxyl group of 1 3 carbon atoms, an acyloxy group of 1 3 carbon atoms, a hydroxyl group or an alkoxycarbonyl group containing 1 3 carbon atoms in the alkoxy part R4 is a hydrogen, fluorine or chlorine atom or an alkyl group of 1 3 carbon atoms, an alkoxy group of 1 3 carbon atoms or an acyloxy group of 1 3 carbon atoms R5 is a hydrogen, fluorine or chlorine atom or an alkyl group of 1 3 carbon atoms or an alkoxyl group of 1 3 carbon atoms. 8. A compound according to claim 7 wherein the group of the sub formula b is a benzyl, methylbenzyl, l methoxybenzyl, fluorobenzyl or E chlorobenzyl group. 9, A compound according to any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein R2 is a 2 methylallyl or 2 methyl 3phenylallyl group. 10. A compound according to any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein R2 is a group CH2R1 where R1 is as defined in any of claims 1 to 4. 11 A compound of the formula III EMI68.1 wherein X is a sulphur atom or an oxygen atom andR6 is a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group of 1 3 carbon atoms. 12. A compound of the formula IV , V , VI VII , XVI or XVII EMI69.1 EMI70.1 wherein R6 is as defined in claim 11. 13. A compound according to claim 11 or claim 12 wherein R6 is a hydrogen atom or a methyl group. 14. A compound of the formula VIII or IX EMI71.1 wherein Rl and R2 are as defined in any of claims 1 to 10, A1 is an alkyl group of 1 6 carbon atoms optionally substituted by an alkoxyl or acyloxyl group of 1 7 carbon atoms A2 is an alkenyl group of up to 5 carbon atoms or is a phenyl group optionally substituted by a fluorine, chlorine, bromine, nitro or alkyl or alkoxyl of up to 4 carbon atoms and A3 is a hydrogen atom, an alkyl group of up to 4 carbon atoms or a phenyl group optionally substituted by a fluorine, chlorine, bromine, nitro or alkyl or alkoxyl of up to 4 carbon atoms. 15. An ester of a compound of the formula II which is a methyl, ethyl, n propyl, n butyl, allyl, CH2CrCH, methoxy methyl, acetoxymethyl, priopionoxymethyl, pivaloyloxymethyl, ethoxycarbonyloxymethyl, methoxycarbonyloxyethyl, ethoxycarbonyloxyethyl, dimethyoxyphthalidyl, benzyl, methoxybenzyl, ethoxybenzyl, nitrobenzyl or chlorobenzyl ester. 16. A compound according to claim 14 wherein Al is a methyl, methoxymethyl, acetoxymethyl, acetoxyethyl, phthalidyl, ethoxycarbonyloxy methyl, or a ethoxyzarbonyloxyethyl group. 17. A compound according to claim 14 whereinA2 is a phenyl, p nitrophenyl or p methoxyphenyl group. 18. A compound according to claim 14 or claim 17 wherein A3 is a hydrogen atom. 19. An ester according to any one of claims 1 to 10 or 14 to 18 which is in the form of an acid addition salt with a pharmaceutically acceptable acid. 20. A compound according to any one of claims 1 to 10 which is in the form of a zwitterion. 21. A process for the preparation of a compound according to claim 1, which process comprises the reaction of an ester of the compound of the formula X EMI72.1 with a compound of the formula XI HN R2 CH2Rl XI wherein Rl and R2 are as defined in relation to formula II except that R2 is not a hydrogen atom, and thereafter, if desired, performing one or more of the following reactions a when it is desired to form a compound II where R2 is H, converting a compound where R2 is a group a , CHURL or benzyl to the correspond ing compound where R2 is H by hydrogenation b converting the ester of the compound of the formula II to an acid addition salt, the free acid or an alternative ester or acid addition salt thereof. 22. A process according to claim 21 for the preparation of a compound II where R2 is hydrogen, wherein step a comprises the hydrogenation of a compound II wherein R2 is benzyl, a group CHURL where R, is as defined in relation to formula II , 2 methylallyl or 2 methyl 3 phenylallyl. 23. A process according to claim 22 for the preparation of a zwitterionic secondary amine of the formula II , which process comprises the hydrogenation of a hydrogenolysable ester of a compound of the formula II where R2 is a hydrogenolysable group. 24. A process for the preparation of a compound of the formula II wherein R2 is a hydrogen atom, which process comprises the reduction with a water soluble complex hydride of a salt of a compound of the formula XII EMI73.1 wherein R1 is as defined in relation to formula II . 25. A process according to claim 24 wherein the complex hydride is lithium borohydride, sodium borohydride, potassium borohydride or sodium cyanoborohydride. 26. A process according to claim 24 or claim 25, which process comprises the reduction of a salt of a compound of the formula xiii EMI74.1 wherein X and R6 are as defined in claim 10. 27. A process for the preparation of an acid addition salt of an ester of a compound of the formula II as defined in claim 1, which process comprises the hydrogenation of a corresponding ester of a compound of the formula XIV EMI74.2 wherein R1 is as defined in claim 1 and R7 is a group of the sub formula b as defined in claim 1, and thereafter converting the product to the acid addition salt. 28. A process according to claim 27 wherein is a benzyl group. 29. A process according to claim 27 or claim 28 wherein a C14 alkyl ester is used. 30. A process for the preparation of a compound of the formula II as defined in claim 1, which process comprises the hydrogenation of a hydrogenolysable ester of the compound of the formula II . 31. A process for the preparation of a compound of the formula II as defined in claim 1, which process comprises the mild basic hydrolysis of a corresponding ester. 32. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound according to any one of claims 1 to20 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. 33. A composition according to claim 32 adapted for administration by injection or infusion. 34. A composition according to claim 32 in unit dose form adapted for oral administration. 35. A composition according to claim 32 adapted for topical administration. 36. A composition according to any one of claims 32 to 35 which also comprises a penicillin or cephalosporin. 37 A composition according to claim 36 comprising ampicillin, amoxycillin, carbenicillin or ticarcillin. 38. A compound according to claim 1 produced in any of Examples 1 to 31 herein. 39. A compound according to claim 1 when prepared by the process of claim 21. 40. A compound according to claim 1 when prepared by the process of claim 24.

## Description
Clavulanic Acid Derivatives, Preparation and Use The present invention relates to ss lactamase inhibitory agents, to a process for their preparation and to compositions containing them. British Patent Application No 41887 75 see alsoU.S. Serial No 731928, Belgian Patent No 847044, WestGerman Offenlegungsschrift No P 2646003.7 discloses inter alia the compounds of the formula I EMI1.1 and esters thereof wherein X1 is hydrogen atom, an alkyl group of up to 5 carbon atoms, an alkenyl group of up to 5 carbon atoms, a hydroxy alkyl group of up to 5 carbon atoms or an optionally substituted phenyl group and X2 is an optionally substituted phenyl group. Such compounds were described as antibacterial agents and ss lactamase inhibitors. We have now discovered that certain novel amines are B lactamase inhibitors which enhance the effectiveness of penicillins and cephalosporins, and which have anti bacterial activity. The present invention provides the compounds of the formula II EMI2.1 and esters and acid addition salts of esters thereof where in R1 is an optionally substituted aromatic monocyclic or bicyclic heterocyclic group bonded via a carbon atom and R2 is a group CH2Rl, a hydrogen atom, a 1 6 alkyl or hydroxyalkyl group, an optionally substituted benzyl group, or a group of the sub formula a EMI2.2 where Ra is a C13 alkyl group, and Rb and Rc are independently hydrogen, C13 alkyl or phenyl. Suitable aromatic monocyclic heterocyclic groups are those containing 5 or 6 ring atoms. Suitable aromatic bicyclic heterocyclic groups are those having a benzene ring fused to an aromatic heterocyclic group containing 5 or 6 ring atoms. Suitable groups R1 may be represented by the sub formula i EMI3.1 wherein one of X1, X2, X3 and X4 is CHN , O , S orNRf where Rf is H or lower alkyl, and the others are selected from N and CH Rd is hydrogen and Re is hydrogen, lower alkyl, CN, CO2H, esterified CO2H, N02 or the like or Rd and Re together form the residue of an optionally substituted benzene ring. When used with reference to the substituents in the group i , esterified carboxyl means a carboxyl group esterified by a C16 alkyl or C16 alkoxy cl 6 alkyl group or a benzyl group optionally substituted by a nitro, C1 4 alkyl or C14 alkoxy group or a fluorine, chlorine or bromine atom. Suitable heterocyclic groups are those which contain up to three heteroatoms in the ring system. Suitable heteroatoms in the group R1 are oxygen, sulphur and nitrogen. Normally not more than one oxygen or one sulphur atom will be present in the ring. When used herein the term optionally substituted means unsubstituted or substituted by up to three atoms or groups selected from fluorine, chlorine, bromine, alkyl, alkoxy or acyloxy of 1 3 carbon atoms, nitro, nitrilo, hydroxyl or the like. Preferably, the group R1 is unsubstituted or is substituted by a lower alkyl, NO2, CN, CO2H, esterified CO2H or the like group. Thus, suitable groups R1 include the furyl, thienyl, pyrrolyl, N methylpyrrolyl, pyridyl, indolyl, oxazolyl, thiazolyl, quinolyl, and the like groups. Suitably, R2 is a hydrogen atom or a methyl, ethyl, propyl, butyl, hydroxymethyl, hydroxyethyl or hydroxypropyl group. A particularly preferred group of compounds of this invention are those wherein R2 is a hydrogen atom, since they have particularly good lactamase inhibitory and antibacterial effectiveness. A further suitable group of compounds of the invention are those wherein R2 is a group of the subformula b EMI4.1 wherein R3 is a hydrogen, fluorine, chlorine or bromine atom or an alkyl group of 1 3 carbon atoms, an alkoxyl group of 1 3 carbon atoms, an acyloxy group of 1 3 carbon atoms, a hydroxyl group or an alkoxycarbonyl group containing 1 3 carbon atoms in the alkoxy part R4 is a hydrogen, fluorine or chlorine atom or an alkyl group of 1 3 carbon atoms, an alkoxy group of 1 3 carbon atoms or an acyloxy group of 1 3 carbon atoms R5 is a hydrogen, fluorine or chlorine atom or an alkyl group of 1 3 carbon atoms or an alkoxyl group of 1 3 carbon atoms. Suitable groups of the sub formula b include the benzyl, E methylbenzyl, p methoxybenzyl, g fluoro benzyl and Eb chlorobenzyl groups. Of these groups, the benzyl group is preferred, since compounds II where R2 is benzyl are favoured intermediates. Preferred groups a are the 2 methylallyl and 2 methyl 3 phenylallyl groups. A further useful group of the compounds of the invention are those wherein R2 is a group CH2R1. A further preferred group of compounds are those of the formula III EMI5.1 wherein X is a sulphur atom or an oxygen atom and R6 is a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group of 1 3 carbon atoms. Since the compounds of the formula ILL exist as zwitterions, they may also be represented by the formulae IV , V , VI , VII , XVT or XVII EMI6.1 wherein R6 is as defined in relation to formula III . Favourably R6 is a hydrogen atom or a methyl group.Aptly the compound of this invention is of the formula IV or V . Aptly the compound of this invention is of the formula VI or VII XVI or XVII . Certain suitable esters of the compounds of the formula II include those of the formulae VIII and IX EMI7.1 wherein A1 is an alkyl group of 1 6 carbon atoms optionally substituted by an alkoxyl or acyloxyl group of 1 7 carbon atoms A2 is an alkenyl group of up to 5 carbon atoms or is a phenyl group optionally substituted by a fluorine, chlorine, bromine, nitro or alkyl or alkoxyl of up to 4 carbon atoms and A3 is a hydrogen atom, an alkyl group of up to 4 carbon atoms or a phenyl group optionally substituted by a fluorine, chlorine, bromine, nitro or alkyl or alkoxyl of up to 4 carbon atoms. Suitable esters of the compounds of the formula II include the methyl, ethyl, n propyl, n butyl, allyl, CH2C CH, methox,r methyl, acetoxymethyl, prfopionoxymethyl, pivaloyloxymethl, ethoxycarbonyloxymethyl, methoxycarbonyloxyethyl, ethoxycarbonyloxyethyl, dimethoxyphthalidyl, benzyl, methoxybenzyl, ethoxybenzyl, nitrobenzyl, chlorobenzyl or the like group. Certain favoured groups A1 include the methyl, methoxymethyl, acetoxymethyl, acetoxyethyl, phthalidyl, ethoxycarbonyloxy methyl, a ethoxycarbonyloxyethyl and the like groups. Certain favoured groups A2 include the phenyl p nitrophenyl and 4 methoxyphenyl groups. A particular ly favoured moiety A3 is the hydrogen atom. Suitable acid addition salts of esters of the compounds of the formula II are acid addition salts with pharmaceutically acceptable acids, such as hydro chloric, phosphoric, sulphuric, methanesulphonic, toluene sulphonic, citric, malic, acetic, lactic, tartaric, propionic, succinic and the like acids. In general, esters are not provided in salted form. Esters of the compounds of the formula II wherein R 2 is not a hydrogen atom tend to be more stable than those wherein R2 is a hydrogen atom. Esters of the compounds of the formula II wherein R2 is not a hydrogen atom are preferably those cleavable by hydrogenolysis, since they serve as intermediates to the corresponding zwitterionic compounds of the formula II . Most suitably, the compounds of this invention are in the form of the zwitterionic compound of the formula II , especially those wherein R2 is a hydrogen atom. This invention also provides a process for the preparation of the compounds of the formula II , which process comprises the reaction of an ester of a compound of the formula X EMI9.1 with a compound of the formula XI HN R2 cH2R1 xI wherein R1 and R2 are as defined in relation to formula II , except that R2 is not a hydrogen atom, and thereafter, if desired, performing one or more of the following reactions a when it is desired to form a compound II where R2 is H, converting a compound where R2 is a group a , CH2R1 or benzyl to the corres ponding compound where R2 is H by hydrogenation b converting the ester of the compound of the formula II to an acid addition salt, the free acid or an alternative ester or acid addition salt thereof. The ester of the compound of the formula X used in the process may be produced by the methods disclosed in British Patent Application NO 41887 75, or equivalent disclosures referred to above. These methods include the reaction of a base with an esterified 9 0 acyl derivative of clavulanic acid, such as benzyl dichloroacetylclavulanate. The conditions employed for the reaction of the compounds of the formulae X and XI will be as described for the analogous reaction disclosed in British PatentApplication No 41887 75, or equivalent disclosures. The formation of a compound of the formula 11 wherein R2 is a hydrogen atom may be achieved by hydrogenation of an ester of a compound of the formula Ir wherein R2 is benzyl or a group a orCH2R1 after the reaction of the compounds of the formulae X and XI and thereafter, if desired, carrying out reaction b as hereinbefore described. Preferred hydrogenolysable groups R2 are benzyl, pyridylmethyl, 2 methyallyl or 2 methyl 3 phenylallyl. The hydrogenation is generally carried out in the presence of a transition metal catalyst such as palladium, for example in the form of palladium on charcoal, at a low, medium or high pressure of hydrogen, for example from 1 to 6 atmospheres. The hydrogenation is generally performed in an inert solvent, such as ethanol, propanol, tetrahydrofuran, dioxane, ethyl acetate or a mixture of such solvents, optionally in the presence of water. If the ester used in the hydrogenation is one which is cleaved by hydrogenation, the zwitterionic form of the secondary amine of the formula II is produced. The present invention also provides a process for the preparation of a compound of the formula II whereinR2 is hydrogen which process comprises the reduction with a water soluble complex hydride of a salt of a compound of the formula XII EMI11.1 wherein R1 is as defined in relation to formula II . Suitable water soluble complex hydrides include borohydrides such as lithium borohydride, sodium borohydride, potassium borohydride, sodium cyanoborohydride or the like. In general an excess of the hydride is vpoyed. The reaction is carried out in an aqueous medium, for example in water or in a mixture of water with an inert water miscible organic solvent such as tetrahydrofuran, dioxan or the like. It is a favoured feature of this invention that ambient and near ambient temperatures may be employed, for example the reaction may be carried out at a temperature of 0 to 300 and conveniently at ambient, for example at about 180 250. The pH of the reaction is best kept below 10 and this may be effected by the addition of an acid such as hydrochloric or like mineral acid simultaneously with the complex hydride. This may be carried out in a pH stat or other similar system. Metrohm, Herisau . Once the reaction is over it is advantageous to return the pH to about 5 8. The desired product may be obtained from the reaction mixture by evaporation of the solvent.Purification may be effected by crystallisation for example before all the solvent has been evaporated off or by column chromatography, for example using silica gel or cellulose and butanol ethanol water 4 4 . A preferred aspect of this process comprises the reduction of a compound of the formula XIII EMI13.1 wherein X and R6 are as defined in relation to formula III . The compounds of the formula XII and XIII are novel and as such form an aspect of this invention. A process for the preparation of acid addition salts of esters of the compounds of the formula II wherein R2 is a hydrogen atom comprises the hydrogenation of a corresponding ester of a compound of the formula XIV EMI13.2 wherein R1 is as defined in relation to formula II andR7 is a group of the sub formula b as defined in relation to formula II , and thereafter converting the product to the acid addition salt. Most suitably R7 is a benzyl group. Preferably the ester of the compound of the formula XIV is an ester as defined in relation to formula VIII . Particularly suitable esters of the compound of the formula XIV include C14 alkyl esters, especially the methyl and ethyl esters. The hydrogenation of the ester of the compound of the formula XIV will take place under reaction conditions similar to those described for the hydrogenation of an ester of a compound of the formula II , but in the presence of acid or with the subsequent addition of acid to form the acid addition salt. Esters of compounds of the formula XIV may be prepared by the reaction of a compound of the formula II wherein R2 is hydrogen with, for example, a compound Cl.CO OCH2R6, as described in German Patent ApplicationNo P 2817085.6, followed by esterification in conventional manner. See also U.S. Serial No 896441 . The free acid or zwitterionic form of the compounds of the formula II may be produced by de esterifying a corresponding ester of the compound of the formula II . The preferred method of de esterification is the hydrogenation of a hydrogenolysable ester. Suitable hydrogenolysable esters include the benzyl and substituted benzyl esters. Suitable substituted benzyl esters are methylbenzyl, methoxybenzyl, halobenzyl, nitrobenzyl and the like esters. The conditions for this de esterification reaction will be as hereinbefore described for hydrogenation to form a compound of the formula II wherein R2 is hydrogen. Compounds of the formula II may be prepared by the hydrolysis of a corresponding ester under mild basic conditions, for example, by the careful addition of base to a solution of the ester. Suitably, a pHstat is used, the pH being maintained at about 8 to 8.5. Particularly suitable esters for hydrolysis include the methyl ester and the methoxymethyl ester. Esters of the compounds of the formula II may be converted to alternative esters by de esterification as hereinbefore described, followed by re esterification. Suitable esterifying agents for use in this process include reactive halides, alkyl oxonium salts, and the like. The re esterification reaction will normally take place in a solvent, such as dimethylformamide, hexamethylphosphoramide, dichloromethane, ethyl acetate, or other non esterifiable solvent, at a temperature of from about 00 to about 250. Acid addition salts of esters of the compounds of the formula II may be prepared by the reaction of the unsalted ester with an acid, for example, in a dry organic solvent. The present invention also provides a process for the preparation of a compound of the formula XII which process comprises the reaction of 9 aminodeoxyclavulanic acid with a compound of the formula xv R1 CHO xv wherein R1 is as defined in relation to formula II , in an aqueous solvent wherein the solution is maintained at an alkaline pH. The pH of the solution is most suitably maintained in the region df 7 10 and preferably 8 9. This may be effected by the addition of base such as an alkali or alkaline earth metal hydroxide, a carbonate or bicarbonate or with a strong organic base which is unreactive towards aldehydes. Thus suitable bases include lithium hydroxide, sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, calcium hydroxide, barium hydroxide, sodium carbonate, potassium bicarbonate, triethylamine and the like. It is convenient to add the base automatically, for example in a pHstat. Solvents suitable for use in this process include water and water in a mixture with inert water miscible organic solvents such as tetrahydrofuran, dioxane, dimethylformamide and the like. The temperature under which this reaction proceeds is convenient in that it is at or near ambient for example Oo 300C and more suitably 180 250C. Most suitably an excess of the aldehyde is present, for example a 2 10 fold excess. The compound of the formula XII is generally only stable in the presence of excess of the aldehydeFor this reason, and for general convenience, it is preferred to form and use the compound of the formula XI1 in situ. This adds to the commercial attractiveness of this over all process for the preparation of the compounds of the formula II . The present invention provides a pharmaceutica composition which comprises a compound of this invention and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The compositions of the invention include those in a form adapted for oral, topical or parenteral use and may be used for the treatment of the infection in mammals including humans. Suitable forms of the compositions of this invention include tablets, capsules, creams, syrups, suspensions, solutions, reconstitutable powders and sterile forms suitable for injection or infusion. Such compositions may contain conventional pharmaceutically acceptable materials such as diluents, binders, colours, flavours, preservatives, disintegrant and the like in accordance with conventional pharmaceutical practice in the manner well understood by those skilled in the art of formulating antibiotics. Injectable or infusable compositions of a compound of the invention are particularly suitable as high blood levels of the compound can occur after administration by injection or infusion. Thus, one preferred composition aspect of this invention comprises a compound of the invention in sterile form and most suitably in sterile crystalline form. The zwitterionic compounds of this invention are particularly suitable for use in such compositions. The injectable solution of the compound of this invention may be made up in a sterile pyrogen free liquid such as water, aqueous ethanol or the like. Unit dose compositions comprising a compound of this invention adapted for oral administration form a further suitable composition aspect of this invention.However, orally administrable forms are generally less favoured than injectable forms owing to the relatively poorer absorption of the compound from the gastrointestinal tract. Despite this,orally administrable compositions are of use as a synergistically effective blood level can be expected at high doses and at lower doses such compositions may be used to treat infections localised in the gastro intestinal tract. PhaursseutiE compositions comprising a compounds of this invention adapted for topical administration are also presented by this invention. In this instance topical administration also includes local administration to internal surfaces of mammary glands of cattle, for example during the treatment of mastitis by intramammary administration. The compound of the formula may be present in the composition as sole therapeutic agent or it may be present together with other therapeutic agents such as a penicillin or cephalosporin. Considerable advantages accrue from the inclusion of a penicillin or cephalosporin since the resulting composition shows enhanced effectiveness synergy . Suitable penicillins for inclusion in the compositions of this invention include benzylpenicillin, phenoxymethylpenicillin, carbenicillin, azidocillin, propicillin, ampicillin, amoxycillin, epicillin, ticarcl llin, cyclacillin, pirbencillin, azlocillin, mezlocillin, celbenicillin, and other known penicillins including prodrugs therefore such as their in vivo hydrolysable esters such as the acetoxymethyl, pivaloyloxymethyl, a ethoxycarbonyloxyethyl or phthalidyl esters of ampicillin, benzylpenicillin or amoxycillin, and aldehyde or ketone adducts of penicillins containing a 6 a aminoacetamido side chain such as hetacillin, metampicillin and analogous derivatives of amoxycillin or a esters of carbenicillin or ticarcillin such as their phenyl or indanyl a esters. Suitable cephalosporins for inclusion i the compositions of this invention include cefatrizin , cephaloridine, cephalothin, cefazolin, cephalexin, cephacetrile, cephamandole nafate, cephapirin, cepradine, 4 hydroxycephalexin, cefaparole, cephaloglycin, and other known cephalosporins or pro drugs thereof. Such compounds are frequently used in the form of a salt or hydrate or the like. Naturally if the penicillin or cephalosporin present in the composition is not suitable for oral administration then the composition will be adapted for parenteral administration. As previously indicated, such injectable or infusable compositions are preferred. Highly favoured penicillins for use in the compositions of this invention include ampicillin, amoxycillin, carbenicillin and ticarcillin. Such penicillins may be used as a pharmaceutically acceptable salt such as the sodium salt. Alternatively, the ampicillin or amoxycillin may be used in the form of fine particles of the zwitterionic form generally as ampicillin trihydrate or amoxycillin trihydrate for use in an injectable suspension, for example, in the manner hereinbefore described for a compound of this invention. The preferred penicillin for use in the synergistic composition is amoxycillin, for example as its sodium salt or trihydrate. Particularly suitable cephalosporins for use in the compositions of this invention include cephaloridine and cefazolin. Such cephalosporins may be used as a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, for example the sodium salt. When present together with a cephalosporin or penicillin, the ratio of a compound of the invention to the penicillin or cephalosporin agent may vary over a wide range of ratios, such as from 10 1 to 1 10 for example about 3 1, 2 1, 1 1, 1 2, 1 3, 1 4, 1 5, or 1 6, wt wt, based on pure free antibiotic equivalent .Orally administrable compositions containing a compound of the invention will normally contain relatively more synergist than corresponding injectable compositions, for example the ratio in an oral composition may be from about 3 1 to about 1 1, whereas a corresponding injectable composition may contain a ratio of about 1 1 to about 1 3 compound of the invention penicillin or cephalosporin. The total quantity of a compound of the invention in any unit dosage form will normally be between 25 and 1000 mg and will usually be between 50 and 500 mg, for example about 62.5, 100, i25, 150, 200 or 250 mg. Compositions of this invention may be used for the treatment of infections of inter alia, the respiratory tract, the urinary tract and soft tissues in humans and mastitis in cattle. Normally between 50 and 1000 mg of the compounds of the invention will be administered each day of treatment but more usually between 100 and 750 mg of the compounds of the invention will be administered per day, for example as 1 6 doses, more usually as 2, 3 or 4 doses. The penicillin or cephalosporin in the synergistic composition of this invention will normally be present at approximately the amount at which it is conveniently used which will usually be expected to be from about 62.5 to 1000 mg per dose, more usually about 125, 250 or 500 mg per dose. One particularly favoured composition of this invention will contain from 150 to 1000 mg of amoxycillin as the trihydrate or sodium salt and from 25 to 500 mg of a compound of this invention. A further particularly favoured composition of this invention will contain from 150 to 1000 mg of ampicillin or a pro drug therefor and from 25 to 500 mg of a compound of this invention. Most suitably this form of composition will contain ampicillin trihydrate, ampicillin anhydrate, sodium ampicillin, hetacillin, pivampicillinhydrochloride, bacampicillin hydrochloride, or talampicillin hydrochloride. Most suitably the preceding compositions will contain from 200 to 700 mg of the penicillin component.Most suitably the preceding composition will comprise from 50 to 250 mg of a compound of the invention. Such compositions may be adapted for oral or parenteral use except when containing an in vivo hydrolysable ester of ampicillin or amoxycillin in which case the compositions will not be adapted for parenteral administration. Another particularly favoured composition of this invention will contain from 200 to 2000 mg of carbenicillin, ticarcillin or a pro drug therefor and from 50 to 500 mg of a compound of the invention. Suitably this form of composition will contain di sodium carbenicillin. Suitably this form of the composition will contain di sodium ticarcillin. More suitably this form of the composition will contain from 75 to 250 mg of a compound of the invention. Such compositions containing di salts of carbenicillin and ticarcillin will be adapted for parenteral administration. The present invention also provides a method of treating bacterial infections in humans or domestic mammals which comprises the administration of a composition of this invention. Commonly the infection treated will be due to a strain of Staphylococcus aureus, Klebsiella aerog enes, Escherichia coli, Proteus sp. or the like. The organism believed to be most readily treated by an antibacterially effective amount of amount of a compound of this invention is Staphylococcus aureus. The other organisms named are more readily treated by using a synergistically effective amount of the compound of the invention and a penicillin or cephalosporin. The administration of the two components may take place separately but in general we prefer to use a composition containing both the synergist and the penicillin or cephalosporin. The indications for treatment include respiratory tract and urinary tract infections in humans and mastitis in cattle. The following Examples illustrate the invention Description 1 p Nitrobenzyl 9 0 dichloroacetyl clavulanateEMI23.1 p Nitrobenzyl clavulanate 20.0g in dry methylene chloride 200ml was treated with pyridine 5.1ml at room temperature. The reaction mixture was cooled to 3O0C and dichloroacetyl chloride 5.9ml in methylene chloride 50ml was added dropwise. After stirring at 300 for 30 mins the mixture was allowed to warm up to room temperature over 30 mins and was then poured into dilute hydrochloric acid. The organic phase was separated, washed with more dilute hydrochloric acid, water, sodium bicarbonate solution, brine and then dried MgS04 .After filtration the methylene chloride was removed in vacuo to afford a yellow oil which crystallised on trituration with ether. Yield 24.03g, 90 . A sample re crystallised from ether gave the following spectral data. alpha D20 30.70 c. 1 CHCl3 , Found C, 46.14 H, 3.08 N, 6.35 Cl, 16.42 C17H14N208C12 requires C, 45.81 H, 3.14 N, 6.29 Cl, 15.92 . p max KBr 1795, 1745, 1685 and 1605 cm 1 . CDCl3 3.08 1H, d, J 17Hz, 6S CH 3.55 IH, dd, J 17 and 3 Hz, 6a CH , 4.85 3H, m, 9 CH2 and 8 CH , 5.15 1H, s, C 3H , 5.29 2H, s, C02CH2 C6H4N02 , 5.74 1H, d, J 3Hz, C 5H , 4.91 IH, s,CHCl , 7.50 and 8.24 each 2H, d, J 9Hz, C6H4NO2 Description 2 N 2 Furfuryl N benzylamine EMI24.1 Furfuraldehyde 6.72g in methanol 80cm at 0 C was treated with benzylamine 7.5 g 1 equivalent and stirred for one hour. To the mixture was added water 5 cm3 which was then hydrogenated at atmospheric pressure for 20 minutes in the presence of 1.1 g of palladium on carbon 10 . The mixture was filtered through celite and evaporated in vacuo.The crude product was chromatographed on silica eluting with ethyl acetate cyclohexane 1 1. Fractions were collected containing the title compound detection by aqueous potassium permanganate spray , Rf SiO2 ethyl acetate cyclohexane, 1 1 0.6. Combined fractions were evaporated to yield a colourless oil, yield 7.9g.2 film 3325, 1600, 1495, 1450, 136C, 1335, 1215, 1180, 1145, 1100, 1075, 1030, 1010, 920, 885, 810, 740, 700 cm CDCl3 1.75 1H,s,exchanges with D20, NH , 3.78 4H, broad, 2 x NCH2 , 6.15 6.35 2H, m, furyl 3 and 4 H , 7.28 7.36 6H, m, CH2C6H5 and furyl 5 H . EXAMPLE 1 ,2 Nitrobenzyl 9 N benzyl N pyrid 2 yl methyl aminodeoxy clavulanate.EMI25.1 Nitrobenzyl dichloroacetylclavulanate 4.51 g in dry acetonitrile 100ml at ice temperature was treated with N benzyl N pyrid 2 yl methyl amine 4.12 g in acetonitrile 20ml for 2 hours. After this time the reaction mixture was poured into brine and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic phase was washed several times with brine, dried and evaporated in vacuo to afford an oil.This was chromatographed on silica gel, eluting with petroleum ether 60 80 ethyl acetate 1 1 grading to 1 2 . Fractions containing the title compound were combined and evaporated to afford an oil, 0.600 g 11.5 , may film 1800, 1752, 1695 cm 1 g CDCl3 2.99 1H, d, J 17Hz, 6 beta CH , 3.21 2H, s, J 8Hz, 9 CH2 , 3.43 1H, dd, J 17 and 3Hz, 6a CH , 3.52 and 3.68 2 x 2H, 2 x s, 2 x N CH2 , 4.79 1H, t, J 8Hz, 8 CH , 5.07 IH, s, 3 CH , 5.21 2H, s, C02CH2 , 5.60 IH, d, J 3Hz, 5 CH , 7.0 7.75 10H, m, Cj5 andEMI25.2 and pyridyl 3 , 4 , 5 H , 8.10 2H, d, J 9Hz,EMI25.3 and 8.47 1H, m, pyridyl 6 H . EXAMPLE 2Benzyl 9 N benzyl N pyrid 2 yl methyl aminodeoxyclavu lanate.EMI26.1 2 Benzylaminomethyl pyridine 6.2g was dissolved in dry dimethylformamide 60ml and was added dropwise to an ice cooled solution of benzyl 9 dichloroacetyl clavulanate 8.35g in dry dimethylformamide 80ml . The mixture was then stirred at 40 for 45 minutes until reaction was complete t.l.c . Cold ethyl acetate was then added and the organic mixture was extracted with dilute HCl 3x . The extracts were then combined covered with a cold layer of ethyl acetate and neutralised using solid sodium bicarbonate.Back extraction with ethyl acetate gave a crude product which on chromatography gave the product as a yellow oil 12 Rf Si02 ethyl acetate pet ether 60 80,1 1 0.25, detection by aqueous potassium permanganate spray . max 2 max CHCl3 1805, 1740, 1725cm 1, n.m.r CDC13 2.95 1H, d, J 17Hz, 6 CH , 3.20 IH, dd,J 17Hz and 3Hz, 6 CH , 3.52 2H, s, 9 CH2 , 3.70 2H, s,CH2C5H4N , 4.70 1H, t, J 7Hz, 8 CH , 5.05 1H, s, 3 CH , 5.15 4H, s, CH2C6H5 x 2 , 5.56 1H, d, J 3Hz, 5 alpha CH and 7.40 and 8.48 m, 14H, 2 x C6H5 E.nd C6H4N EXAMPLE 3 9 N Benzyl N pyrid 2 yl methyl aminodeoxyclavulanic acid.EMI27.1 p Nitrobenzyl 9 N benzyl N pyrid 2 yl methyl aminodeoxyclavulanate 0.550 g was hydrogenated at atmospheric pressure in tetrahydrofuran 20ml and water 2ml in the presence of 10 Pd BaS04 0.20 g . After 1 hr another portion of catalyst 0.20g was added and the reduction was continued for a further hour. The catalyst was removed by filtration through celite and the filtrate was evaporated in vacuo. This residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate and water. The aqueous phase was evaporated to afford a yellow oil 0.17g . This oil was chromatographed on silica gel eluting with chloroform ethanol 4 1 grading to 1 1. Fractions containing the required compound were combined to afford the tertiary zwitterion as a foam 0.105 g, 26 . 1, max film 3700 2000 br , 1795, 1695 and 1508 cm 1 CDCl3 3.09 1H, d, J, d, J 17Hz, and 5Hz, 6a CH , 3.87 2H, d, J 8Hz, 9 CH2 , 4.35 and 4.59 2 x 2H, 2 x s, CH2C5H4N and CH2C6H5 , 4.80 1H, t, J 8Hz, 8 CH , 5.00 IR, s, 3 CH , 5.78 1H, d, J 5Hz, 5CH , 7.28 7.61 7H, m, C5,pyridyl 3 and 5 H , 7 80 8.00 1H, m, pyridyl 4 H and 8.60 1H, m, pyridyl 6. H . The organic phase from above was evaporated in vacuo to afford recovered starting material 0.260 g . Thus the corrected yield of tertiary zwitterion was 500A. EXAMPLE 4 9 N Pyrid 2 yl methyl aminodeoxyclavulanic acidEMI29.1 p Nitrobenzyl 9 N benzyl N pyrid 2 yl methyl aminodeoxyclavulanate 0.20 g in ethyl acetate 2ml was added to pre reduced catalyst 0.10 g, 100A Pd C, 30 mins in ethanol IOml and. water Iml . Reduction was then carried out at 1 atmosphere of hydrogen for 30 min at room temperature. The catalyst was filtered off through celite and the solution was evaporated. The residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate and water.The aqueous phase was evaporated to afford a white crystalline solid 0.075g, 67 which did not melt but began to decompose above 1500C. max nujol 3500 2400 br , 1803, 1690 and 1610 1575 br cm 1 i D20 3.06 IH, d, J 17Hz, 6ss CH , 3.57 1H, dd, J 17 and 3Hz, 6 CH , 3.79 2H, d, J 8Hz, 9 CH2 , 4.29 2H, s, CM2 , 4.77 IH, t, J 8Hz, 8 CH , 5.70 1H, d, J 3Hz, 5 CH , 7.28 7.55 2H, m, pyridyl 3 and 5 H , 7.65 7.95 1H, m, pyridyl 4 H and 8.40 8.60 1H, m, pyridyl 6 H . EXAMPLE 5 P Nitrobenzyl 9 N benzyl N N methylpyrrole 2 methyl aminodeoxyclavulanate.EMI30.1 1 Methyl 2 benzylaminomethyl pyrrole 4g was dissolved in acetonitrile 40ml and was added dropwise to a solution of pnitrobenzyl 9 dichloroacetylclavulanate 4.68g in acetonitrile 45ml . The reaction was stirred initially at 200C and then allowed to warm to room temperature over a period of 5 hours. The acetonitrile was then removed under reduced pressure and ethyl acetate 100ml was then added. The organic solution was then washed with water 3 x and brine. The organic solution was then dried MgS04 and evaporated to an oil. Silica gel chromatography afforded the required product as a gum. 19 Rf SiO2 ethyl acetate pet. ether 60 80 1 1 0.60 detection by aqueous poTassium permanganate . max CHCl3 1800, 1745 and 1695 cm 1. S CDCl3 2 85 1H, d,J 17Hz, 6B CH 3.10 1H, dd, J17 and 3 Hz, 6 alpha CH 3.39 9H, m, N CH3, CH2 pyrrole, CH2C6H4NO2,9 CH2 4.73 1H, broad t, J 7Hz, 8 CH 5.10 IH s, 3 CH 5.20 2H, s, CH2C6H5 5.58 1H, d, J 3Hz, 5 CH 5.95 2H, d, J 4Hz, pyrrole 3 and 4 H , 6.48 1H, t, J 2Hz, pyrrole 5 H , 7.21 5H, s, CH2C6E5 , 7.39 and 8.08 both 2H, d, J 9Hz C6H4NO2 . EXAMPLE 6 9 N Benzyl N N methylpyrrole 2 methyl aminodeoxyclavulanic acid.EMI32.1 Ni trob enzyl 9 N benzyl N N methylpyrrole 2 methyl aminodeoxyclavulanate 0.200 g was hydrogenated at atmospheric pressure in tetrahydrofuran 10ml and water Iml in the presence of 10 Pd BaS04 0.066 g for 30 minutes. The catalyst was removed by filtration through celite and the filtrate was evaporated under reduced pressure. This residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate and water. The aqueous phase was evaporated to afford a yellow oil 0.12 g . This oil was chromatographed on silica gel, eluting with chloroform ethanol 3 1 grading 1 1. Fractions containing the required compound were combined to afford the tertiary zwitterion as a foam 0.065g 45 .Rf siO2 chloroform ethanol 1 1 0.50 detection by Erlichs reagent . ,, maX. CHC13 1790, 1695 and 1610 cm 1. n.m.r. spectrum D20 includes the following peaks at, i 3.04 1H, d, J 17Hz, 6ss CH , 3.37 s, 3H, N CH3 , 5.69 1H, d, J 3Hz, C 5H , 6.10 1H, m, pyrrole CH , 6.24 1H, m, pyrrole CH , 6.73 1H, m, pyrrole CH , 7.37 5H, s, CH2C6H5 EXAMPLE 7 2 Nitrobenzyl 9 N benzyl N thienyl 2 methyl aminodeoxy clavulanateEMI33.1 p Nitrobenzyl 9 0 dichloroacetyl clavulanate 5.19g in dry acetonitrile 60ml was treated at 0 C by dropwise addition of 2 N benzylaminomethylthiophene 4.50g in dry acetonitrile 30ml . After stirring at 0 C for 3 hours the acetonitrile was evaporated off under reduced pressure. The residue was then dissolved in ethyl acetate 100ml . This organic solution was then washed with water and then dried MgS04 . After filtration the ethyl acetate was removed in vacuo to afford a yellow oil which on column chromatography gave the title compound as an oil. Yield 1.20 g 20 . max 1700 3 1 and 1605 1700 and cm 1. max g CDCl3 2.95 1H, d, J 17Hz, 6 beta CH , 3.18 2H, d,J 7Hz, 9 CH2 , 3.40 1H, dd, J 17 and 3 Hz, 6 CH , 3.54 2H, s, CH2 thiophene ,3.67 2H, s, N CH2Ph , 4.73 1H, broad t, J 7Hz, 8 CH , 5.08 1H, m, 3 CH , 5.20 2H, s,C02CH2 , 5.60 1H, d, J 3Hz, 5 CH , 6.92 and 7.18 3H, m, thienyl H , 7.26 5H, s, N CH2C6H5 , 7.42 and 8.10 both 2H, d, J 9Hz, C4N02 . EXAMPLE 8Benzyl 9 EN 2 furfuryl N benzylaminogdeoxy clavulanateEMI34.1 Benzyl dichloroacetylclavulanate 8.32g in dry dimethylformamide 50 cm3 at 00 was treated with N 2 furfuryl N benzyl amine 7.4g 1.9 equivalents and stirred at for 2 hours, then poured into cold ethyl acetate 150 cm3 and washed with water 5 x 50 cm3 and saturated brine 5 x 50 cm3 , dried anhydrous magnesium sulphate and evaporated in vacuo to yield a coloured oil, yield lig. 1.2g of this crude product was chromatographed on silica eluting with ethyl acetate cyclohexane 1 1.Fractions were collected containing the title compound Rf SiO2 ethyl acetate cyclohexane 1 1 0.78 detection by aqueous potassium permanganate spray . Combined fractions were evaporated in vacuo to yield an oil, 0..31g. film 1805, 1750, 1692, 1495, 1450, 1305, 1227, 1175, 1150, 1120, 1075, 1045, 1015, 965, 755, 700 cm 1. g CDcl3 2.91 t1H, d, J 17Hz, 6ss CH , 3.15 2H, d, J 7Hz, 9CH2 , 3.37 1H. dd,J 17 and 3Hz, 6 alpha CH , 3.47 4H broad s, 2 x NCH2 , 4.70 1H, dt, J 7 and 1Hz, 8 CH , 5.00 1H, d, J 1Hz, 3 CH 5.11 2H, S, OCH2C6H5 , 5.55 1H, d, J 3Hz, 5 CH , 6.05 6.25 2H, m, furyl 3 and 4 H , 7.21 11H, broad s, 2 C C5 and furyl 5 H . EXAMPLE 9 9 N 2 Furfuryl N benzylamino deoxyclavulanic acidEMI35.1 Benzyl 9 N 2 furfuryl N benzylaminodeoxyZclavulanate 2.8g in tetrahydrofuran 100 cm3 and water 5 cm3 was hydrogenated at atmospheric pressure in the presence of 0.9g palladium on charcoal 10 . The mixture was filtered through celite and the catalyst washed with aqueous tetrahydrofuran 50 cm3 . The filtrate was evaporated in vacuo to yield a foam. This foam was chromatographed on cellulose eluting with butanol propan2 ol water 7 7 1.Fractions were collected containing material Rf SiO2 butanol propan 2 ol water 7 7 6 0. 67 detection by aqueous potassium permanganate spray Combined fractions were evaporated in vacuo to yield an oil which on trituration with dimethyl ether yielded the title compound as colourless crystals yield 42mg. 3 Nujol 1780, 1690, 1650, 1305, 1145, 1140, 1120, 1035, 1015, 935, 925, 895, 750, 740, 705, 655 cm 1. s D20 CD30D 2.97 1H, d,J 17Hz, 6ss CH , 3.54 1H, dd, J 17 and 3Hz, 6a CH , 3.59 2H, d, J 8Hz, 9CH2 , 4.07 2H, Sq, J 14Hz, CH2 furyl , 4.12 2H, s, CH2C6H5 , 4.8 HOD obscuring 8 CH , 4.91 1H, S, 3CH , 5.75 1H, d, J 3Hz, 5 a CH , 6.43 6.58 2H, m, furyl 3 and 4 H , 7.42 5H, s, C6H5 , 7.59 1H, m, furyl 5 H . EXAMPLE 10 9 N 2 Furfuryl 3aminodeoxvelarrulanic acidEMI36.1 Benzyl 9 N 2 furfuryl N benzylamino deoxyclavulanate 2.8g in tetrahydrofuran 100 cm3 and water 5 cm3 was hydrogenated at atmospheric pressure for 10 minutes in the presence of 0.9g palladium on charcoal 10 .The mixture was filtered through celite and the catalyst washed with aqueous tetrahydrofuran 50 cm3 . The filtrate was evaporated in vacuo to yield a foam. This foam was chromatographed on cellulose eluting with butanol propan 2 ol water 4 4 1. Fractions were collected containing material Rf0. 53 SiO2 butanol propan 2 ol water 7 7 6 , detection by aqueous potassium permanganate spray.Combined fractions were evaporated in vacuo to yield an oil which on trituration with n butanol gave colourless crystals, 5 mg. p Nujol 3570,3350,2700,2406 allbroad 1805,1690, 1610, 1300, 1185, 1155, 1140, 1120, 1080, 1045, 1015, 945, 930, 895, 885, 745 cm 1g D20 3.06 1H, d, J 17Hz, 6B CH , 3.55 1H, dd, J 17 and 3Hz, 6a CH , 3.67 2H, d, J 8Hz, 9cm2 , 4.18 2H, s, CH2 furyl , 4.75 5,Q5 2H, m, 3CH and 8 CE , 5.71 1H, d, J 3Hz, 5 CH , 6.37 6.55 2H, m, furyl 3and 4 H , 7.52 1H, m, furyl 5 H . EXAMPLE 11Benzyl 9 N pvridyl 4 methn,rl benzylaminodeoxyclavulanate EMI37.1 Benzyl dichloroacetylclavulanate 5.5g in dry dimethylformamide 50 cm3 at Oo was treated with NX yridyl 3 methyN benzylamine 1.9 equivalents dropwise in dimethylformamide 40cm3 and stirred for 4 hours at 0 then 3 poured into ethylacetate 1 50cm and washed with water 5 x 50cm3 and saturated brine 3 x 50cm3 , dried anhydrous magnesium sulphate and evaporated in vacuo to yield a coloured oil. This oil was chromatographed on silica gel, eluting with ethyl acetate cyclohexane 1 1 grading to 3 1 . Fractions were collected containing the title compound, Rf SiO2 ethylacetate cyclohexane 1 1 0.3. The combined fractions were evaporated in vacuo to yield an oil, yield 0.67g 10 . film 1805, 1750, 1690, 1600, 1495, 1450, 1415, 1305, 1230, 1180, 1120, 1045, 1020, 890, 800, 750, 700 cm CDCl3 2.91 1H, d,J 17Hz, 6S CH , 3.13 2H, d, J 7Hz, 9CH2 , 3.41 1H, dd,J 17 and 3 Hz, 6a CH , 3.44, 3.47 2 x 2H, 2 x s, 2 x NCH2 , 4.72 1H, t, J 7Hz, 8CH , 5.05 1H, s, 3CH , 5.15 2H, s,C02CH2C6H5 , 5.57 1H, d, J 3Hz, 5CH , 7.18 7.35 12H, m, 2 x CH2C5, pyridyl 3 and 5 H , 8.44 8.5 2H, m, pyridyl 2 and 6 H . EXAMPLE 12Benzyl 9 N pyridyl 3 methylzbenzylaminodeoxyclavulanateEMI38.1 Benzyl dichloroacetyl clavulanate 6 9 in dry dimethylformamide 70cm3 at 0o was treated with N yridyl 3 methyN benzylamine 1.9 equivalents , dropwise in dimethylformamide 30cm3 and stirred for 5 hours then poured into ethyl acetate 250cm3 and washed with water 4 x 100cm3 and brine 4 x 100cm3 , dried anhydrous magnesium sulphate and evaporated in. vacuo to an oil.This oil was chromatographed on silica eluting with ethyl acetate cyclohexane, 1 1. Fractions were collected containing the title compound Rf SiO2 ethylacetate cyclo hexane, 1 1 0.34 detection by potassium permanganate spray . The combined fractions were evaporated in vacuo to yield an oil, 0.57g 8 .t film 1800, 1745, 1690, 1450, 1420, 1300, 1180, 1120, 1040, 1015, 790, 745, 715, 700 cm 1 s CDCl3 2.94 1H, d, J 17Hz, 6Q CH , 3.11 2H, d, J 7Hz, 9CH , 3.41 1H, dd, J 17 and 3Hz, 6CH , 3.43, 2 3.46 4H, 2 x s, 2 x NCH2 , 4.71 1H, t, J 7Hz, 8CH , 5.04 1H, s, 3CH , 5.15 2H, s, CO2CH2C6H5 , 5.58 1H, d, J 3Hz, 5CH , 7.10 7.66 2H, m, pyridyl 4 and 5 H , 7.27 10H, broad s, 2 x CH2C6H5 8.48 2H, m, pyridyl 2 and 6 H . EXAMPLE 13 9 3 Pyridyl methyl aminodeoxyclavulanic acidEMI39.1 Benzyl 9 N pyridyl 3 methyl benzylaminodeoxyclavulanate 0.46g in tetrahydrofuran 40cm3 and water 3 cm3 was hydrogenated at atmospheric pressure in the presence of 10 palladium on carbon 0.15g for 24 hours. The mixture was filtered through a fibre glass filter and the catalyst washed with aqueous tetrahydrofuran 50cm3 . The filtrate was evaporated in vacuo to an oil. This crude product was chromatographed on cellulose, eluting with butanol propan 2 ol water 4 4 1 graduating to 4 4 2. Fractions were collected containing the title compoundRf SiO2 butanol propan 2 ol water 7 7 6 0.29 detection by potassium permanganate spray . Combined fractions were evaporated in vacuo, addition of cold ethanol yielded colourless crystals, 22 mg 8 9 Nujol 3700 3100 , 2800 2500 , 2500 2300 , 1810, 1690,1610, 1580, 1400, 1305, 1185, 1125, 1085, 1070, 1050, 1020, 990, 950, 900, 810, 715 cm . i D20 CD30D 10 3.09 1H, d, J 17Hz, 6RCH 3.59 1H, dd, J 17Hz and 3Hz, 6CH , 3.77 2H, d, J 7Hz, 9CH2 , 4.25 2H, s, NCH2 , 4.32 1H, t, J 7Hz, 8CH , 4.98 1H, s, 3CH , 5.74 1H, d, J 3Hz, 5aCH . 7.41 7.58 1H, m, pyridyl 5 H , 7.87 7.97 1H, m, pyridyl 4 H , 8.55 2H, broad m, pyridyl 2 and 6 H . EXAMPLE 14Benzyl 9 N,N di pyrid 3 ylmethvl aminodeoxYclavulanate EMI40.1 Benzyl dichloroacetylclavulanate 6g in dry dimethylformamide 50cm3 at 00 was treated with N, N di pyrid3 ylmethyl amine 1.9 equivalents and stirred at Oo for three hours then at 200 for 3 hours. The mixture was poured into ethyl acetate 250cm3 and washed with water 5 x 50cm3 and saturated brine 5 x 50cm5 , dried anhydrous magnesium sulphate and evaporated in vacuo to yield an oil. This was chromatographed on silica eluting with ethyl acetate chloroform ethanol 9 3 1.Fractions were collected containing the title compound,Rf SiO2 ethyl acetate chloroform ethanol, 9 3 1 0.24 detection by aqueous potassium permanganate spray .Combined fractions were evaporated in vacuo to yield the title compound as an oil, 0.79g .9 film 1800, 1745, 1690, 795, 745, 715, 700 cm 1. i CDC13 2.98 1H, d, J 17Hz, 6p CH , 3.12 2H, d, J 7Hz, 9CH2 , 3.43 1H, dd, J 17 and 3Hz, 6aCH , 3.45 4H, s, 2 x NCH2 , 4.69 lH, t, J 7Hz, 8CH , 5.05 1H, s, 3CH , 5.18 2H, s, C02CH2 , 5.61 1H, d, T 3Hz, 5 alpha CH , 7.13 7.65 4H, m, 2 x pyridyl 4 and 5 CH , 7.28 5H, s, CH2C6R5 , 8.47 4H, broad m, 2 x pyridyl 1and 6 CH . EXAMPLE 15 9 N Pvrid 3 vlmethvl aminodeoxyclavulanic acidEMI41.1 Benzyl 9 N,N di pyrid 3 1 ylmethyl aminodeoxyclavulanate 0.68g in tetrahydrofuran 35cm3 and water 4cm3 was hydrogenated in the presence of palladium on carbon 30 palladium , 140 mg for five hours at atmospheric pressure. A further 100 mg of the same catalyst was added and hydrogenolysis continued for a further 1 hours. The catalyst was filtered off and washed with aqueous ethanol 100 cm3 , the filtrate was evaporated in vacuo to yield a colourless crystalline solid. This was washed with cold ethanol and dried, yield 80 mg. The washings and supernatant were evaporated in vacuo to yield an oil. This oil was dissolved in tetrahydrofuran 2.0cm3 and water 10m3 and hydrogenolysed in the presence of palladium on carbon 30 palladium 150 mg at atmospheric pressure for 21 hours.The catalyst was filtered off and washed with aqueous ethanol 50cm3 and the filtrate evaporated in vacuo to yield a solid cold ethanol was added and the solid filtered off. After washing with cold ethanol, the solid was dried to yield a further 82 mg of the title compound. Thin layer chromatography anc infrared spectroscopy showed both batches to be identical. Total yield 162 mg Rf Si02 butanol propan 2 ol water 7 7 6 0.24.9 Nujol 3700 3100 , 2800 2500 , 2500 2300 , 1810, 1690, 1610, 1580, 990, 950, 900, 810, 715 cm EXAMPLE 16Benzyl 9 N 2 methylallyl N 1 methylpyrrole 2 methyl aminodeoxyclavulanate. EMI42.1 Benzyl 9 0 dichloroacetylclavulanate 5.58g in acetonitrile 60 ml was treated at 0 C with dropwise addition of 1 methyl 2 2 methylallylaminomethyl pyrrole 4. 35g in acetonitrile 40ml . After stirring at 0 C for two hours the acetonitrile was removed under reduced pressure.The resulting oil was then dissolved in ethyl acetate 100ml and washed with water, dried MgSO4 and evaporated in vacuo. Column chromatography of the crude product afforded the title compound asa gum. Yield 1.10g 18 . max CHCl3 1800, 1745, 1690 and 1640 cm 1. CDC13 1.64 3H, s, CH2 C CH3 , 2.80 2H, s, CH2 C CH3 , 2.95 IH, d, J 17Hz, 6S CH , 3.06 2H, d, J 7Hz, 9 CH2 , 3.35 2H, s, CH2 pyrrole , 3.40 IH, dd, J 17 and 3Hz, 6a CH , 3.53 3H, s, N CH3 , 4.68 1H, broad t, J 8 CH , 4.80 2H, s, C CH2 , 5.17 2H, s, CO2CH2 , 5.25 1H, s, 3 CH , 5.60 1H, d, J 3Hz, 5 CH , 5.95 and 6.52 3H, m, pyrrole H and 7.30 5H, s, C6H5 . EXAMPLE 17 9 N 1 Methylpyrrole 2 methyl aminodeoxyclavulanic acid.EMI43.1 Benzyl 9 N 2 methylallyl N 1 methylpyrrole 2 methyl aminodeoxyclavulanate 1.10g in ethanol 20ml was carefully added to a pre hydrogenated mixture of 10 palladium on charcoal 550mg in ethanol 20ml . The mixture was then hydrogenated at atmospheric pressure for 30 minutes. The catalyst was then filtered through celite and the filter cake washed well with ethanol.The ethanol was then evaporated under reduced pressure and the residue crystallised on trituration with ethanol to afford the required compound as a white crystalline solid. Yield 39 . V max nujol 1795, 1690, 1643 and 1600 cm i D20 3.05 1H, d, J 17Hz, 6 CH 3.56 3H, s, CH3 , 3.60 1H, dd, J 17 and 3Hz, 6a CH 3.67 2H, d, J 7Hz, 9 CH2 4.14 2H, s, CH2 pyrrole 4.76 1H, broad t, J 7Hz, 8 CH 4.95 1H, s, 3 CH 5.71 1H, d, J 3Hz, 5 CH , 6.10 1H, t, J 3Hz, pyrrole CH , 6.25 1H, m, pyrrole CH and 6.75 1H, t J 3Hz, pyrrole CH . EXAMPLE 18Benzyl 9 N benzyl N quinol 3 yl aminodeoxYclavulanate EMI44.1 To a solution of benzyl dichloroacetylclavulanate 4g , in dimethylformamide 100ml at ice temperature was added, dropwise, 3 benzylaminomethylquinoline 4. 7g , in dimethylformamide 15ml . After 4 hours at 0 C the reaction mixture was poured into brine and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic phase was washed several times with brine, then dried MgSO4 and evaporated to a dark yellow oil. Chromatography on silica gel elution with petrol ethyl acetate 4 1 grading to 1 1 afforded the title compound as an oil, 0.89g 17 .I.r. film 1802, 1750 and 1695 cm 1. N.m.r. i CDCl3 2.91 1H, d, J 17Hz, 6ss CH , 3.18 2H, d,J 8Hz, 9 CH2 , 3.38 1H, dd, J 17 and 3Hz, 6a CH , 3.52 and 3.61 both 2H, s, CH2C6H5 and CH2C9NH6 , 4.77 1H, t,J 8Hz, 8 CH , 5.06 1H, s, 3 CH , 5.16 2H, s, C02CH2 , 5.58 1H, d, J 3Hz, 5 CH , 7.27 5H, s, C6 5 , 7.46 8.13 5H, m, quinolyl 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 and 8 H , and 8.85 1H, m, quinolyl 2 H . Example 19Benzyl 9 N 2 methylallyl N thien 2 ylmethyl aminodeoxyclavulanateEMI45.1 Benzyl 9 O dichloroacetylclavulanate 8.57 g in acetonitrile, at 0 C was treated with dropwise addition of N 2 methylallyl N thien 2 ylmethyl amine 6.8 g in acetonitrile. On final addition the reaction was stirred at 0 C for 1 hour and then for a further 2 hours at between 0 and 200C. The acetonitrile was then removed under a reduced pressure and the resulting oil was dissolved in ethylacetate. The solution was then washed with water, dried MgSO4 and evaporated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography afforded the title compound as a colourless oil in 10 yield. s max CHCl3 1800, 1745, 1695, and 1610cm 1. CDCl3 1.74 1 74 3H, s, CH3 2.98 2H, s, N CH2 C CH2 2.99 lH, d, J 17 Hz, 6S CH 3.14 2H, d, J 7 Hz, 9 CH2 3.40 lH, dd, J 17 and 3 Hz 6a CEI 3.62 2H, s, CH2 thienyl 4.70 lH, broad t, J 7 Hz, 8 CH 4.84 2H, broad C CH2 5.05 lH, s, C 3H 5.12 2H, centre of Aha system C02CH2 5.59 lH, d, J 3 Hz, C 5H 7.00 3H, , thienyl H , and 7.30 5H, s, CH2C6H5 . Example 20Benzyl 9 N indol 3 ylmethyl N 2 methylallyl amino deoxyclavulanate EMI46.1 N Indol 9 ylmethyl N 2 methylallyl amine 3.9 g in dimethylformamide 10 ml was added dropwise to a stirred solution of benzyl dichloroacetylclavulanate 4.1 g in dimethylformamide 50 ml at OOC. After 50 minutes at this temperature the reaction mixture was poured into brine and extracted with ethyl acetate.The organic phase was washed with brine 4x , dried MgS04 and evaporated to a brown oil which was chromatographed on silica gel elution petrol ethylacetate 5 2 grading to 2 l to give the title compound as an oil 1.65 g 34 . 3 may CHCl3 3500, 1802, 1750, and 1700 cm N.M.R. CDCl3 1.71 3H, s, CH3 , 2.88 lH, d,J 17 Hz, 63 CH , 2.91 2H, s, CH2 C C , 3.14 2H, d, J, 7 Hz, 9 CH2 , 3.38 lH, dd, J 17 and 3 Hz, 6 alpha CH , 3.71 2H, s, CH2 het , 4.78 lH, bt, 8 CH , 4.85 2H, bs, CH2 , 5.03 lH, s, 3 CH , 5.15 2H, s, CO2CH2Ph , 5.54 lH, d, J 3 Hz, 5 CH , 6.85 7.80 5H, m, indolyl H , 7.27 5H, s, C5 , and 8.08 lH, bs, NH . Example 21 9 N Indol 3 ylmethyl aminodeoxyclavulanic acidEMI47.1 10 Palladium on carbon 0.120 g in ethanol 20 ml was hydrogenated at atmospheric pressure for 15 minutes.After this time benzyl 9 N indol 3 ylmethyl N 2 methylallyl aminodeoxyclavulanate 1.72 g in ethanol 5 ml was added and the hydrogenation was continued for 30 minutes. The catalyst was filtered off and the solvent removed in vacuo to afford a yellow oil which crystallised from methanol. Yield of the title compound was 0.60 g, 50 . max KBr . 1783 br , 1685, 1620 br , 1308 and 740 cm l, N.M.R. D20 I ISO d6, 3.02 lH, d, J 17 Hz, 6ssCH , 3.58 lH, dd, J 17 and 3 Hz, 6a CH , 3.73 2H, d, J 8 Hz, 9 CH2 , 4.26 2H, s, NH2 CH2 , 4.93 lH, s, 3 CH , 5.73 lH, d, J 3 H ., 5 CH , 7.15 7.80 5H, m,indolyl 2,4,5,6 and 7 H . 8 CU obscured by HOD. Example 22Benzyl 9 N 2 methylallyl N quinol 3 ylmethyl aminodeoxyclavulanate EMI48.1 N 2 methylallyl N quinol 3 ylmethyl amine 3.4 g in dimethyl formamide 20 ml was added dropwise to a stirred solution of benzyl dichloroacetylclavulanate 3.4 g in dimethylformamide 70 mls at ice temperature.After 3 hr. at this temperature the reaction mixture was poured into brine and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic phase was washed with brine 3x and then extracted with dilute hydrchloric acid. The acidic phase was neutralised with solid sodium bicarbonate and extracted with fresh ethyl acetate. The latter phase was washed with brine, dried MgS04 and evaporated to a red brown oil. Chromatography on silica gel elution petrol ethyl acetate 5 2 1 1 afforded the title compound as an oil 0.270 g 4 . Nmax film , 2900, 1800, 1745, 1695, 900 and 760 cm l. N.M.R. CDCl3 1.73 3H, s, CH3 , 2.91 2H, s,CH2 , 2.93 lH, d, J 17 Hz, 6 beta CH , 3.14 2H, d, J 8 Hz, 9 CH2 , 3.41 lH, dd, J 17 and 3 Hz, 6a CH , 3.59 2H, s, quinoline CH2 , 4.75 lH, bt, J 8 Hz, 8 CH , 4.89 2H, bs, CH2 , 5.09 lH, s, 3 CH , 5.18 2H, s, CH2Ph , 5.60 lH, d, J 3 Hz, 5 CH , 7.20 8.20 10H, m, and quinoline 4 H, 5 H, 6 H, 7 H and 8 H and 8.85 lH, m, quinoline 2 H . Example 23Benzyl 9 N methYl N pntrid 3 ylanethyl aminodeoxyclavulanate EMI50.1 Benzyl dichloroacetylclavulanate 11.2 g in dimethylformamide 50 ml was treated with a solution of N methyl N pyrid 3 ylmethyl amine 6.5 g in dimethylformamide 5 ml , at 00. The stirred reaction mixture was maintained at 0 for 5 hours and poured into ethyl acetate 250 ml washed with water 2 x 100 ml and brine 2 x 100 ml , dried magnesium sulphate and evaporated to an oil. Chromatography on silica gel, eluting with methyl acetate ethanol, 1 1, gave the required product as an oil 6.7 .Rf SiO2 methyl acetate EtOH, 10 1 0.36 CHC13 1800, 1745, 1700 cm CDCl3 2.1 3H, s, N CH3 , 2.98 lH, d, J 17 Hz, 6 beta CH, partially obscured by d at 3.1 , 3.1 2H, d, J 7 Hz, 9 CH2 , 3.38 2H, s, CH2 pyridyl , 3.42 lH, dd, J 17, and 3 Hz, 6 CH , 4.72 lH, t, J 7 Hz, 8 CH , 5.08 lH, bs, 3 CH , 5.17 2H, s, CH2C6H5 , 5.63 lH, d, J 3 Hz, 5 CH , 7.28 2H, m, pyridyl 4,5 H , 7.59 lH, m, pyridyl 6 H , 7.31 5H, s, C H C6H5 , 8.46 lH, m, pyridyl 2 H . Example 24 9 N Methyl N pyrid 3 ylmethyl aminodeoxyclavulanic acidEMI51.1 Benzyl 9 N methyl N pyrid 3 ylmethyl aminodeoxy clavulanate 600 mg was hydrogenolysed at ambient pressure in ethanol 50 ml in the presence of10 palladium on carbon 200 mg for 1 hour. The catalyst was removed by filtration and the filtrate evaporated to a gum which on trituration with acetone ether gave the tertiary amine zwitterion as an off white solid 28 .Rf Si02 n butanol propan 2 ol water, 7 7 6 0.16 0.l6 K3r 3420, 1787, 1688, 1615 cm 1 S D20 2.75 3H, s, N CH3 , 3.05 1H, d,J 7 Hz, 6 CH , 3.56 lH, dd, J 17 and 3 Hz, 6a CH , 3.82 2H, d, J 8 Hz, 9 CH2 , 4.33 2H, CH2 pyridyl , 4.82 lH, dt, J 8 and 2 Hz, 8 CH , 4.99 lH, bs, 3 CH , 5.72 lH, d, J 3 Hz, 5 CH , 7.0 lH, m, pyridyl 5 H , 7.41 lH, m, pyridyl 4 H , 8.04 2H, m, pyridyl 2,6 H . Example 25Benzyl 9 N furfur 2 vl methyl N 2 hydroxyethy1 aminodeoxyclavulanate EMI52.1 Benzyl dichloroacetyl clavulanate 8.0 g in dimethylformamide 100 mls was treated with 2 furfur2 yl methyl aminoethanol 5.3 g at room temperature for 30 minutes. The solution was poured into ethyl acetate and extracted with brine, dried MgSO4 and evaporated to a yellow oil. This was chromatographed on silica gel elution petrol ethyl acetate 1 1 grading to petrol methyl acetate 1 1 to give the title ester as an oil, 1.2 g 1546 . I.R. CHCl3 3600 3300, 1798, 1730 and 1695 shoulder cm1. N.M.R. CDCl3 2.53 2H, t, J, 6 Hz, CH2CH2 N , 2.70 lH, bs, exch. D20, OH , 2.98 lH, d, J 17 Hz, 6 CH , 3.19 2H, d, J 7 Hz, 9 CH2 , 3.43 1H, dd, J 17 and 3 Hz 6 CH , 3.50 2H, t, J 6 Hz,CH2OH , 3.54 2H, s, CH2 furyl , 4.69 lH, bt, J 7 Hz, 8 CH , 5.08 lH, s, 3 CH , 5.19 2H, s, C02CH2 , 5.64 lH, d, J 3Hz, 5 CH , 6.12 lH, m, furyl 4 CH , 6.28 lH, m, furyl 3 CH and 7.20 6H, m, C6H5 and furyl 5 CH . Example 26Benzyloxycarbonylmethyl 9 N ,N bis pyrid ylmethy1 aminodeoxyclavulanateEMI53.1 Benzyloxycarbonylmethyl 9 O dichloroacetyl clavulanate 4.58 g 10 mM at 0 C in dry dimethylformamide 3 50 cin was treated with 1.9 equivalents of bis pyrid 3 ylmethyl amine and stirred at Oo for 4 hours. The reaction mixture was poured into ethylacetate 250 cm 3 and washed with water 6 x 100 cm and saturated brine 3 6 x 100 cm , dried anhydrous magnesium sulphate and evaporated to an oil. This oil was chromatographed on silica eluting with ethyl acetate cyclohexane,1 4 grading to 1 2.Fractions were collected containing the title compound, combined fractions were evaporated to yield an oil 1.0 g, 19 , Rf SiO2 ethanol chloroform 1 4 0.87,V film 1805, 1755, 1695 cm 1 . The proton magnetic resonance spectrum was consistent with the title compound. Example 27 9 N Pyrid 3 ylmethyl aminodeoxyclavulanic acidEMI54.1 Benzyloxycarbonylmethyl 9 N,N bis pyrid 3 ylmethyl aminodeoxyclavulanate 0o95 g 1.8 mM in aqueous tetrahydrofuran 50 cm was hydrogenolysed at atmospheric pressure in the presence of palladium on carbon 10 Pd which had been prehydrogenated.for 20 minutes for 5 hours. The catalyst was filtered off and washed with a little aqueous tetrahydrofuran.Palladium on carbon 0.3 g was added andhydrogenolysis continued for 16 hours. The catalyst was filtered off and washed with aqueous tetrahydrofuran, the filtrate was evaporated to a foam. This foam was chromatographed on cellulose eluting with butanol propanol water 4 4 1 .Fractions containing the title compound were collected and evaporated to yield a crystalline solid. Y Nujol 1812, 1695, 1615, 1592 cm 1 . Example 28Benzyl 9 N 2 methylallyl N pyrid 2 ylmethvl amino deoxyclavulanateEMI55.1 Benzyl dichloroacetylclavulanate 8.0 g, 20 mmol in dimethylformamide lOOmls at 0 C was treated dropwise with N 2 methylallyl N pyrid 2 yl methyl amine 6.16 g, 38 mmol in dimethylformamide 25 ml . After 1 hours at 0 C and 2 hours at room temperature the reaction mixture was poured into water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic phase was washed with water 3 x , brine, dried MgS04 and evaporated in vacuo to an oil. Chromatography on silica gel elution petroleum ether ethyl acetate 4 l grading to 2 3 afforded the title compound as an ol, 1.22 g 14 . I.R. film 1803, 1755, 1698, 1300 and 900 cm 1. NMR CDC13 1.73 3H, s, CH3 , 2.89 2H, s, CH2 , 2.92 1H d, J 17 Hz, 6ss CH , 3.17 2H, d, J 8 Hz, 9 CH2 , 3.38 1H, dd, J 17 and 3 Hz, 6 cH , 3.63 2H, s, cH2 , 4.75 1H, t, J 8 Hz, 8 CH , 4.86 2H, dm, CH2 , 5.04 1H, s, 3 CH , 5.14 2H, s, C02CH2 , 5.58 1H, d, J 3 Hz, 5 CH , 7.00 7070 8H, m, C6H5 and pyridyl3H, 4H and 5H and 8.47 1H, m, pyridyl 6H . Example 29 9 N 2 Methylallyl N quinol 3 ylmethyl aminodeoxyclaNtul anic acidEMI56.1 105o Pd C 0.060 g in ethanol 10 ml was prehydrogenated for 10 mins. Benzyl 9 N 2 methylallyl N quinol ylmethyl aminodeoxyclavulanate 0.170 g, 0.35 mmol in ethanol 5 ml was added and hydrogenation was carried out for 2 hours. Catalyst was filtered off and solvent removed in vacuo to give a yellow oil.Chromatography on silica gel elution THF EtOH H20 20 1 1 afforded the title product as an oil 0.040 g, 29 . I.R. film 3600 3200, 1795, 1695 and 1620 cm 1. Example 30 9 Pyrid 4 ylmethyla ninodeoxyclavulanic Acid EMI57.1 9 Aminodeoxyclavulanic acid 200 mg was dissolved in water lO ml and pyridyl 4 aldehyde 0.43 g, 4x excess in tetrahydrofuran 10 ml added. The pH during addition was maintained at pH 8.0 on the pH Stat by the addition of lM NaOH solution. The reaction became very slow when 0.92 ml NaOH had been taken up. At this point the solution contained the Schiffs base. The NaOH burette was replaced with a IN HCl burette, and portions of NaBH4 20 mg each added until each successive portion did not cause a large change in pH. TheHCl burette was used to maintain the reaction mixture at 9.0 9.5. Tlc butanol isopropanol water 7 7 6 then showed complete conversion to a product whose Rf value was less than the starting 9 amiodeoxyclavulanic acid. The solution was evaporated to dryness and triturated with acetone. The insoluble material 300 mg was subjected to silica gel chromatography using butanol ethanol water 4 4 1 was the eluent. After a non ss lactam containing component had eluted, fractions containing the required product by tlc were collected, evaporated, triturated with acetone and filtered off, to give 9 pyrid 4 ylmethylaminodeoxyclavulanic acid 40 mg as a pale cream solid. l I.r. cm 1698, 1802, 2400 to 3600 broad with fine structure . Nujol . N.m.r. v D20 3.00 1H, d, J 17 Hz, 6f3 CH , 3.49 1H, dd, J 3 and 17 Hz, 6a CH , 3.58 2H, d, J 7Hz, 9 CH2 , 4.06 2H, s, CH2 pyridyl , 4.75 1H, t, partly obscured by HOD, 8 CH , 4.90 1H, s, 3 CH , 5.65 1H, d, J 3Hz, 5 CH , 7.37 2H, d, J 6Hz, 3,5,pyridyl H , 8.47 2H, d, J 6 Hz, 2,6, pyridyl H . Example 31 9 Isothiazol 5 yl aminodeoxyclavulanic AcidEMI59.1 To a stirred solution of 9 aminodeoxyclavulanic acid 0.2g in water 10ml and tetrahydrofuran 1Oml was added isothiazole 5 carboxaldehyde 0.5ml .The pH was maintained constant at 8.3 by the addition of lithium hydroxide solution 1M . The theoretical amount was taken up 1ml . At this point the solution contained the Schiffs base. The pH of the solution was increased to 9, and sodium borohydride 0.2g was added in small portions during 15 mins, maintaining the pH of the solution between 9 and 10 mostly about 9.2 by the simultaneous addition of IN HCl. T.l.c. then showed that a new zone with Rf slightly higher than the primary amine had appeared SiO2 butanol isopropanol water 7 7 6 .The reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness, and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 x 25ml . The insoluble material was dissolved in water about 2ml and subjected to column chromatography on silica gel using butanol isopropanol water, 7 7 6, as the elution solvent. Fractions containing the required product by t.l.c were combined and evaporated to a colourless crystalline solid, which was triturated with acetone 20ml , filtered off, washcd with ether and dried in air, to yield 9 isothiazol 5ylaminodeoxyclavulanic acid 0.18g .I.r nujol mull 2500 3800 broad, with fine structure , 1808, 1693, 1615 and 1575 cm Demonstration of Activity The antibacterial activity in vitro of compounds of the invention is illustrated by the results shown inTable 1. The minimum inhibitory concentration MIC of ampicillin alone and in combination with certain compounds of this invention was determined for several strains of bacteria. These synergy results are shown in Table 2. Mice infected intraperitoneally with E. coli E96 were treated sub cutaneously with amoxycillin, amoxycillin and a compound of the invention or cefazolin at 1 and 5 hours post infection. The CD50 values are shown inTable 3. TABLE IEMI62.1 tb Compound SEP of SEP MIC SEP g ml SEP tb SEP Example SEP Sta SEP h. SEP aureus SEP Klebsiella SEP E. SEP coli tb SEP Russel SEP aerogenes SEP E70 SEP JT SEP 39 tb SEP 10 SEP 2.0 SEP 250 SEP 31.2 tb SEP 11 SEP 125 SEP 500 SEP 500 SEP tb SEP 13 SEP 4.0 SEP 250 SEP 62.5 tb SEP 14 SEP 62.5 SEP 500 SEP 500 tb SEP 17 SEP 8 SEP 500 SEP 15.6 tb SEP 21 SEP 2 SEP 125 SEP 31.2 tb SEP 24 SEP 8 SEP 125 SEP 15.6 tb SEP 29 SEP 25 SEP 00 SEP 200 SEP tb SEP 30 SEP 16 SEP 500 SEP 125 tb SEP 31 SEP 16 SEP 250 SEP 125 tb TABLE 2EMI63.1 tb SEP MIC SEP Ampicillin SEP pg ml SEP tb Compound SEP Conc. SEP Staph.aureus SEP Klebsiella SEP E. SEP coli tb SEP of SEP g ml SEP Russell SEP aeroqenes SEP JT SEP 39 tb Example SEP E SEP 70 tb SEP 5 SEP 0.01 SEP 1.6 SEP 2.0 tb 10 SEP 1 SEP 0.04 SEP 3.1 SEP 8.0 tb SEP O SEP 62.5 SEP 500 SEP 500 SEP tb SEP 20 SEP ca.O.l SEP 25 SEP 250 tb 11 SEP 5 SEP 0.4 SEP 25 SEP 500 tb SEP O SEP 0 SEP 125 SEP 250 SEP 2000 tb SEP 5 SEP Inhib. SEP 6.25 SEP 4.0 tb 13 SEP 1 SEP SEP 0.01 SEP 6.25 SEP 16.0 tb SEP 0 SEP 500 SEP 1000 SEP 2000 SEP tb SEP 20 SEP 0.04 SEP 50 SEP SEP 500 SEP tb 14 SEP 5 SEP 0.3 SEP 100 SEP 500 SEP tb SEP 0 SEP 250 SEP 500 SEP 2000 tb SEP 5 SEP 0.02 SEP 3.12 SEP 4 tb 17 SEP 1 SEP 0.3 SEP 12.5 SEP 15.6 tb SEP 0 SEP 1000 SEP 1000 SEP 2000 SEP tb SEP 5 SEP Inhib. SEP 0.4 SEP 2 tb 21 SEP 1 SEP Inhib. SEP 3.1 SEP 4 tb SEP O SEP 500 SEP 500 SEP 2000 tb SEP 5 SEP SEP 0.01 SEP SEP SEP 3.12 SEP 2 tb 24 SEP 1 SEP 0.3 SEP 3.12 SEP 8 tb SEP 0 SEP 1000 SEP 1000 SEP 2000 tb SEP 5 SEP 0.16 SEP 50 SEP 250 tb 29 SEP 1 SEP 0.3 SEP 100 SEP 500 tb SEP 0 SEP 500 SEP 500 SEP 2000 SEP tb SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0.08 SEP 3.1 SEP 4.0 tb 30 SEP 1 SEP 0.6 SEP 0.6 SEP 31.2 tb SEP O SEP 500 SEP 125 SEP 2000 tb TABLE 2 continued.... EMI64.1 tb SEP MIC SEP Ampicillin SEP g SEP SEP ml SEP tb SEP Compound SEP Compound SEP Conc. SEP StaDh.aureus SEP Klebsiella E. SEP coli SEP tb SEP of SEP g ml SEP Russell SEP aeroqenes SEP JT SEP 39 SEP tb Example SEP E SEP 70 tb SEP 5 SEP 0.04 SEP 3.1 SEP 8 tb SEP 31 SEP 1 SEP SEP 0.6 SEP 6.2 SEP 8 SEP tb SEP 0 SEP 500 SEP 500 SEP 2000 tb Inhib. some inhibition by compound alone inhibition of control observed TABLE 3EMI64.2 tb SEP Compound SEP Compound SEP Dosage SEP CD50 SEP mg kg tb SEP of SEP mg kg SEP tb SEP Example tb SEP SEP 1000 SEP x2 tb SEP 17 SEP 5 SEP 10 SEP x SEP 2 tb Armoxycillin tb SEP 21 SEP 5 SEP 12 SEP x SEP 2 tb SEP Cefazolin SEP 21 SEP 5 SEP 12 SEP x SEP 2 tb Composition 50 mg of the compound of Example 17 was dissolved in 2.5 ml sterile water for injection BP to provide a solution suitable for injection.