# Pocket casing effective to house a note booklet.

## Abstract
The casing comprises a cardboard or other suitable material sheet member, as suitably transversely die cut in such a way as to define five portions 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , the two intermediate whereof form, respectively, the front and rear flaps or flats of a cover member, and being separated by a portion forming the back of the cover member, the two end portions being effective to be folded onto the flaps and joined to two sides thereof by means of perimetrical edge portions 6 as laterally formed with respect to the end portions or intermediate portions.

## Claims
C L A 1 X s 1 A pocket casing effective to house a note booklet, characterized in that it comprises a cardboard or other suitable material sheet member,as suitably transversely die cut and ribbed in such a way as to define five portions, the two intermediate portions whereof are effective to form,respectively,the front and rear flaps of a cover member,and being separated by a portion forming the back of said cover member, the two end portions being effective to be folded onto said flaps and joined to two sides thereof, by means of perimetrical edge portions as laterally formed with respect to said end portions or interihediate portions. 2 A pocket casing, according to the preceding claim, characterized in that on said portion of said cardboard sheet coupled to said cover member front flap forming portion there is formed,by die cutting,a transversely ribbed tab. 3 A pocket casing, according to the preceding claims, characterized in that on said portion of said cardboard sheet forming said cover member rear portion there is formed a slot. 4 A pocket casing, according to the preceding claims, characterized in that the portion of said cardboard sheet coupled to said cover member front flap is preferably provided with a shaped free edge. 5 A pocket casing, effective to house a note booklet, according to the preceding claims, and substantially as broadly described and illustrated in the preceding description and on the several figures of the accompanying drawings, constituting an integrating portion of the present Patent Application.

## Description
BAKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to a pocket casing effective to house a note booklet. As it is knows, it is conventional for determined makers,banks,professional offices and the like to give Their clients,under particular circumstances, advertising articles. Among these articles there are to be mentioned, owing to their rather reduced cstwthe so called note bookletswhich substantially comprise a plurality of stacked small sheets as associated to a generic binding arrangement. Obviously this latter will have determined aesthetic characteristics,as well as functional characteristics, since it will be an image of the offering company. To this end there are presently used hide or hide like uaterial binding arrangements which, on the other kand,are of excessively high cost ana scarcely suitable to support written sheets or advertising messages. SYMMARY OP THE INVENTION Thus, The present invention sets out to eliminate the thereinabove cited drawbacks of the known note booklet, by providing a note booklet which is of very reduced cost and in the meanwhile of great funotionality. According to one aspect of the present inventionThere is provided a pocket casinggeffective to house a note booklet, characterized in that it comprises a cardboard or other suitable material sheet member,as suitably transversely die cut and ribbed in such a way as to define five portions, the two intermediate portions whereof are effective to form, respectively, the front and rear flaps of a cover member,and being separated by a portion forming The back of said cover member,the two end portions being effective to be folded onto said flaps and Joined to two sides thereor, by means or perimetrical edge portions as laterally formed with respect to said end portions or intermediate portions. Thus the folded cardboard provides two pockets, one whereof is effective to easily house the notebooklet supporting cardboara,while the other whereof is effective to house individual note sheets. Advantageously on the front and rear flaps of the cover member it is further possible to print advertising messagges or words. It is to be pointed out that the aforesaid folded edge portions,Xhiih act as structural strengthrning members,permit thinner cardboards to be used for making said cover member. BRIEP DE5CRIP ION OF RR DRAWINGS These and other characteristics, of functional and constructional Fture,of the pocket casing effective to house a note booklet, according to the present invention, will become more apparent from the roll owing detailed description, with reverence to the accompanying drawings, where rig.l illustrates the die cut and ribbed cardboard for making the casing according to the present invention fig.2 illustrates that same cardboard,as folded and glued fig.3 illustrates the casing according to the present invention, in an open condition and housing a note booklet fig.4 illustrates that same casing, in a closed condition whereof and as seen from the rear. DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT Referring now to the reference numbers of the figures oi the accompanying drawings, the pocket casing effective to house a note boohlet according to the present invention, comprises a cardboard or other suitable material sheet,as suitably squared in such a way as to present a substantially elongated configura tion. More specifically, said cardboard is die cut and ribbed in such a way as to define four portions 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 ,the two intermediate portions whereof form,respectively,the front and rear flaps or flats of a cover member, being separated from one another by a further portion 5 ,forming The back of said cover member. The two end portions or the cardboard are folded on said flaps and joined thereto by means of perimetrieal edge portions 6 ,as laterally formed with respect to said end portions or intermediate portions. The thus rormed two pockets 7 and 8 , are accordingly provided with a longitudinally extending strenghtening member and they present, between the two portions whereof,a distance which is effectice to house the bottom supporting member of a note booklet, 9 , or note sheets. On said portion 1 of the cardboard, coupled to the portion 2 ,forming the front flaps of said cover member, there is formed,for example by die cutting,a tab 103,these latter being suitably ribbed in the transversal direction. On said portion 3 of the cardboard sheet, forming the rear flaps of the cover member,there is formed,on the other hand,a slot 11 effective to house the end of said tab. Said portion l ,forming the inside wall of the pocket 7 ,effective to house note sheets, is moreover preferably provided with a shaped edge, effective to faEi litate the removing of said sheets. From the above description and the observation of the figures of the accompanying drawings, there are self evident the great functionality and use facility characterizing the pocket casing effective to house a note booklet,according to the present invention.