# Microbial nitrate removal from tobacco materials by dissimilatory denitrification.

## Abstract
A process for the reduction of the nitrate nitrogen content of tobacco by microbial treatment is disclosed. Tobacco materials are subjected, under controlled conditions, to the action of a microorganism effective in its ability to degrade nitrates through biochemical reactions in which nitrogen gas is ultimately formed. The process is applicable for all types of tobacco materials such as tobacco filler, aqueous tobacco extracts, stems, and tobacco processing streams from various reconstitution processes, as well as tobacco processing effluent. Tobacco materials treated in accordance with this process, when incorporated into a tobacco smoking product, have been found to deliver a significantly reduced amount of oxides of nitrogen in the smoke.

## Claims
CE,P. LMS 1. A process for denitrification of nitrate nitrogen from tobacco materials, extracts or processing effluents, comprising the steps of a contacting the tobacco material, extract or effluent with an inoculum of denitrifying microorganisms to provide an initial concentration of the microorganisms effective to reduce nitrate nitrogen by dissimulatory denitrification in which nitrogen gas is formed and b maintaining the tobacco material extract or effluent in contact with the microorganisms for a period and under conditions to promote fermentation and achieve a substantial degree of denitrification, 2. A process according to claim l in which the tobacco material, extract or effluent is maintained in contact with the microorganisms for a period of about 12 to 72 hours, at a temperature of about 20 C to about 400C, a pH within the approximate range from 6 to 8, and simultaneously maintaining the dissolved oxygen content at no more than about 3 ppm. 3. A process according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the tobacco material is tobacco stems, strip, shreds, or fines. 4. A process according to claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein tobacco material is extracted with water to produce an aqueous tobacco extract having a nitrate nitrogen content of from 10 ppm to 3000 ppm, and the extract is then contacted with the microorganisms. 5. A process according to claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the tobacco material is suspended in water to form a slurry having a concentration ofS to 40 solids by weight and the microorganisms are then added to the slurry. 6. A process according to claim 5, wherein the slurry is formed having a concentration of about 5 20 solids by weight. 7. A process according to claim l or 2 wherein an effluent stream having a nitrate nitrogen content of at least 10 ppm is treated. 8. . process according to any of claims 1 to 7, wherein the denitrifying microorganism is Paracoccus denitrificans

## Description
MICROBIAL NITRATE REMOVAL FROM TOBACCO MATERIALS BY DISSIMILATORY DENITRIFICATION Technical Field The present invention pertains to a process for reducing certain nitrogen containing compounds present in tobacco materials.More specifically, the present invention provides a process for treating tobacco materials by subjecting them to the action of microorganisms whereby nitrate and the subsequent metabolic intermediates are substantially reduced and removed, thereby reducing the total nitrogen content of the tobacco product. Smoking articles prepared from the treated tobacco products deliver significantly lowered amounts of oxides of nitrogen on smoking. Background of Prior Art It is generally recognized that smoking products having a lowered amount of oxides of nitrogen present in the smoke are desirable. Several techniques have been suggested for reducing oxides of nitrogen in smoking articles. US Patents 3,616,801 and 3,847,164 relate generally to reconstituted tobacco and methods wherein ion exchange, ion retardation resins, or electrodialysis techniques are utilized to selectively remove Inorganic constituents from aqueous tobacco extracts. The methods disclosed relate generally to the removal of nitrate containing compounds from tobacco. These particular methods xay be feasible on a small scale but are apt to be both expensive and impractical on a commercial scale.In addition, the methods described appear to be limited to reconstituted tobacco methodology and are not particularly suitable for treating other forms of tobacco such as leaf or filler. Moreover, regeneration of the ion exchange resin or disposal of the resin containing the crude nitrate containing compounds adds to the cost and also presents a problem from an ecological and environmental viewpoint. More recently, a process for recovering crystalline potassium nitrate from tobacco extracts has been described inU.S. patents nos. 4131117 and 4131118. Concentrated tobacco extracts are cooled to effect crystallizat ion of potassium nitrate which is then removed by centrifugation. The partially denitrated tobacco extract containing about 0.3 to 0.5 nitrate is then recombined with a fibrous tobacco web as in making reconstituted tobacco.The crystalline potassium nitrate by product may be used for agricultural purposes. An additional method for removing certain agents from tobacco is disclosed in U. S. Patent 3,995,646 and involves placing the tobacco in heated liquid for a preselected time period. The wash solution containing tobacco solubles is presumably discarded.The washed tobacco is dried and then rehydrated to restore the tobacco to a condition suitable for use in cigarettes. This process suffers certain disadvantages in that subjecting higher grades of tobacco such as prime leaf or filler to washing in hot or boil ing water results in an undesirably high loss of tobacco solubles and flavorants. Moreover, disposal of the tobacco solubles solution presents a problem from an environmental viewpoint. Tso et al. in US Patent 3,845,774 describe tobacco treatment methods. referred to as homogenized leaf curing wherein the tobacco is homogenized and incubated under well defined and control led conditions. Nitrate nitrogen and total nitrogen are reduced somewhat however, the amount of reduction is not as significant as that of the present process. Tso et al. alludes to the fact that tobacco modification can be accomplished by the use of additional techniques during homogenization and incubation, such as enzyme and microbial action however, no specific methods or means for reducing nitrate nitrogen are suggested. W. O. Atkinson et al. reported a reduction in nitratenitrogen in homogenized tobacco leaf curing wherein the tobacco was extracted with aqueous ethyl alcohol prior to incubation. Procedings of the University of Kentucky Tobacco and Health ResearchInstitute, Lexington, Kentucky, Conference Report 4, March 1973, p. 829 33 . The use of aqueous ethyl alcohol for extraction purposes results in the loss of desirable tobacco flavorants thereby rendering this method undesirable for our purposes. The use of microorganisms is known in the art of fermenting tobacco, especially tobaccos suitable for use in cigars and the like. Microorganisms have been used to produce milder tobaccos and to modify certain types of tobacco flavorants. More recently,US Patents 4,037,609 and 4,038,993 disclosed methods for reducing the nicotine content of tobacco by microbial treatment using microorganisms obtained from cigar tobacco. Aerobic fermentation techniques are employed wherein nicotine is degraded via microbial action to 3 succinoylpyridine. In accordance with the present invention, a process for reducing the nitrate content of tobacco materials is disclosed wherein the tobacco materials are subjected to microbial action to effect substantial nitrate nitrogen reduction and removal. The process has several advantages when compared to prior methods for nitrate removal. In particular, the nitrate removal is accompanied by the concomitant reduction of the total nitrogen content of the treated materials. The process is specific for nitrate, leaving the cation concentration, i.e., K , Na , etc., unchanged. The end product via microbial action is nitrogen gas, which is evolved and can be reused for sparging gas, thus eliminating troublesome disposal problems experienced in prior methods of nitrate removal.The process does not require overly expensive equipment and is not energy intensive. Moreover, the process is adaptable to all types of tobacco materials, i.e., aqueous tobacco extracts, tobacco leaf, stems, shredded filler, and the like, whereas the known methods are generally applicable to tobacco that is ultimately utilized in reconstituted tobacco sheets. Brief Summary of the Invention The present invention provides a process for the reduction of the nitrate nitrogen content of tobacco materials via a dissimilatory denitrification pathway. Tobacco materials are inoculated with a microorganism known to be effective in the dissimilatory reduction of nitrate nitrogen to nitrogen gas via a series of enzymatic reactions shown schematically below. NO3 NO2 NO N20 N2Dissimilatory denitrification is preferred in that the end product of nitrate metabolism, nitrogen gas, is evolved from the reaction mixture, thereby leaving no other nitrogenous containing metabolic intermediate products that could potentially affect the subjective characteristics of the denitrated tobacco material, or influence the further formation of oxides of nitrogen in the generated smoke. The process of the present invention may be utilized for the denitrification of tobacco components, aqueous tobacco extracts, or waste streams containing tobacco solubles having nitrate salts.Optimum denitrification is observed when the nitrate nitrogen level is at least 10 ppm and generally no greater than about 3000 ppm. The process described in this invention is particularly suitable for the treatment of burley tobacco which has a relatively high nitrate level as compared to other tobacco types such as bright. Moreover, the process of the present invention may be utilized in combination with other known methods for denitrification of tobacco materials to achieve substantial total nitratenitrogen removal from tobacco materials. Detailed Description of the Invention Certain organismsare known to reduce nitrate to elemental nitrogen via a series of anaerobic metabolic steps that are generally referred to as dissimilatory denitrification. Alternatively, some organiamsare known to reduce nitrate to ammonia with intermediate products such as nitrite and hydroxylamine. This is generally known as assimilatory nitrate reduction. For the purpose of the present invention, dissimilatory reduction is preferred in that elemental nitrogen is the end by product of nitrate reduction and is completely removed from the tobacco materials substrate. Organism which are effective in dissimilatory reduction of nitrates include Micrococcus denitrificans Beijerinck, NC1B8944 Paracoccus denitrificans, ATCC 19367 R. Y. Stanier Paracoccus denitrificans, ATCC 17741 and NRC 449 Mary T. Clement Paracoccus denitrificans, ATCC 13543. Other dissimilatory denitrifiers are selected species of the Genera Pseudomonas, Alcaligenes, Bacillus and Propionibacterium.The Paracoccus denitrificans strain ATCC 19367 utilized in the present process was obtained from the American Type Culture Collection, 12301 Park Lawn Drive, Rockville, Maryland 20852. Organisms effective only in the reduction of nitrate to nitrite in tobacco materials are not considered suitable for use in the present process in that the total oxides of nitrogen content in the smoke from treated tobacco materials is not significantly reduced. Table 1 Morphological and Biochemical Characteristics of Paracoccus Micrococcus denitrificans ATCC 19367A. MORPHOLOGYCells are coccoid, averaging about 1 in diameter. They are gram negative and occur in pairs, singly, and aggregates.Agar Colonies Circular, entire, smooth, glistening, white, opaque.B. PHYSIOLOGYOptimum growth 25 300C, Range 5 370C, Nitrates and nitrites are electron acceptors in dissimilation being reduced to nitrous oxide and nitrogen.Anaerobic growth with the production of gas in the presence of nitrate. insole not produced.Urease activity negative.Catal ase positive.Aerobic growth on salicin, dulcitol, d .xylose, adonitol, lactose, mannitol, sucrose, sorbital, maltose, dextrose, mannose, raffinose and rhamnose but with the production of neither acid or gas.Aerobic growth fructose, and arabinose with the production of trace amounts of acid.No growth on aesculin or arginine.Starch is not hydrolyzed.Gelatin is not hydrolyzed. Prior to treating tobacco materials containing nitratenitrogen, it is necessary to obtain an inoculum build up of microorganisms. Inoculum build up is achieved under controlled anaerobic conditions. Growth and maintenance of the microorganisms may be carried out either in a nitrate broth or a broth derived from aqueous tobacco extracts containing nitrate nitrogen. Normally the broth should have a nitrate nitrogen content of at least 10 ppm and preferably about 1400 ppm to support and achieve the desired amount of inoculum build up. Concentrations of nitrate nitrogen greater than about 3000 ppm may have adverse effects on the microorganisms. Inoculum is added to a broth containing nitrate in a shake flask adapted for anaerobic conditions. The dissolved oxygen content should be maintained at no more than about 3 ppm. This is achieved by intermittent sparging, generally at a rate of l.5 to 1.0 liter minute with a gas such as nitrogen, helium, or carbon dioxide. The initial pH of the broth should be between ab jJt 6 and 8 and preferably between 6.8 and 7.2. The broth is maintained at a temperature between about 200C and 409C with temperatures between 300C and 350C being preferred. Agitation is generally achieved by low to medium speed stirring at about 60 to 300 rpm. It will be recognized by those skilled in the that the amount of culture added to the nitrate broth is a ma teir of judgment. However, we have found that by adding inoculul I to culture broth to give an initial optical density of about 0 3 to 0.4 at 660 mu as determined using an Hitachi Perkin Elmer Sp ctrophotometer, Model 120, results in an acceptable inoculum bull up within a time range of about 8 to 24 hours. Tobacco materials suitable for use in the present process may be in various forms such as leafs shredded filler, riled, crushed or shredded stems, tobacco fines, or aqueous extracts of the above components. Semi solid fermentation technique may be utilized in the case of some of the tobacco components li ted above. The tobacco components may be mixed with water to give a slurry having concentrations in the range of about 5 to 4t.solids by weight. Optimum denitrification of the tobacco slurry is t nerally achieved in the range of about 5 20 solids by weight. After natively, an aqueous tobacco extract may be prepared contain ig nitrate nitrogen in the range of 10 ppm to no greater than a zut 3000 ppm. Partially denitrated extracts, such as those obta ed by the denitration crystaltization process as disclosed inD.S, tents 4131117 4131118, are highly suitable for use in the present process. Such partially denitrated extracts will generally have a nitrate nitrogen content of about 0.3 to 0.5 prior to treatment a co ing to the process of the present invention. The tobacco slurry thus prepared, is added to a fernentor such as, for example, a Labline rotary drum fermentor. Suitable nutrients and buffering salts, such as Fecal3, K2IiP04, MgS04 7H2O, NH4Cl, and glucose are added, and the slurry is sterilized at 15 psi for about 45 minutes. After cooling, the sterile material is inoculated with at least 10g V V of inoculum. The inoculum obtained from the inocula build up step previously described should have an optical density of about 0.5 to 1.5 and preferably about 1.0. Alternatively, the tobacco mixture is inoculated with inoculum from a tobacco extract broth to give viable counts of at least about l x 107 cells per milliliter. The amount of inoculum added to the tobacco will, to a great extent, determine the time necessary to reduce the nitratenitrogen present. Larger amounts of inoculum than those indicated above may be used without adversely affecting the tobacco. When the process is used in connection with commercial processing of tobacco, it may be desirable to increase the amount of inoculum added in order to minimize processing time.Generally, processing times required to totally reduce the nitrate nitrogen will be in the range of about 12 to 72 hours. Of course, shorter periods may be used to achieve a lesser degroe of denitrification. During the fermentation of the tobacco slurry or extract, the temperature is maintained at about 300C to 400C and preferably at about 35 C. The dissolved oxygen content is controlled at OL 3 ppm with intermittent sparging at a rate of about 0.5 to 1.0 liter minute with a suitable sparging gas. Agitation at no less than about 60 RPM is.employed. During the fermentation, the pH is recorded and maintained in the range of about 6.0 to 8.0 and optimally between about 6.8 and 7.2. The rate of denitrification may be assessed by ascep . tically sampling the mixture periodically and measuring the nitrate content using a specific nitrate ion electrode such as an OrionModel 93 07 nitrate ion electrode. When denitrification is complete, the tobacco material is dried to a suitable moisture content for further tobacco processing. In the case of tobacco extracts, it may be desirable to concentrate the extract prior to reapplication to a fibrous tobacco web as in making reconstituted tobacco.The denitrified tobacco materials or reconstituted tobacco may then be further treated by the addition of suitable casings, flavorants, and the like and then dried and utilized in the production of smoking products. The process of the present invention is adaptable to treating a variety of forms of tobacco in various stages of curing.For example, the process is highly suitable for use in treating uncured tobaccos, particularly burley tobacco wherein homogenized leaf curing processes are employed. Moreover, the process may be used to advantage with cured tobaccos in strip form, stems, shreds or tobacco fines, or in tobacco extracts suitable for subsequent use in making reconstituted tobacco. The process is also adaptable for use in denitrifying tobacco effluent streams resulting from routine tobacco processing operations. The effluent stream may be diverted to suitable reservoirs for denitrification treatment prior to discharging in the usual manner, thereby eliminating ecological problems and potential pollution. The present invention may be illustrated by the following examples of presently preferred practices which demonstrate the effectiveness of the treatment of tobacco materials with microorganisms capable of effecting dissimilatory denitrificÅation. Example 1A. PREPARATION OF MAINTENANCE AGAR SLOPES Maintenance slopes were prepared according to the following formulation Glucose .10.0 g Peptone 10.0 g MgSOr 7H20 0.5 g FeCl3 0.002 g K2HPO4 7,0 g KN03 10.0 g Agar 15 g Distilled or deionized water To make 1 liter The mixture was boiled for one minute, dispensed in tubes and sterlized at 15 psi for 15 minutes. Paracoccus denitrificans ATCC 19367 was streaked on the storage agar prepared above. The agar was maintained at 33 20C for 48 hours. The resultant slopes were stored no longer than 21 days at 0 50C.B. PREPARATION OF NITRATE BROTH Nitrate broth was prepared according to the following formulation KH2P04 5.2 g K2HPO4 10.7 g MgSO .7H20 0.2 g NH4C1 1.0 g FeCl3 0.002 g Glucose 10.0 g KN03 10.0 g Water To make 1 liter The medium was sterilized in an autoclave at 15 psi for 15 minutes and cooled prior to inoculation.C. TOBACCO EXTRACT BROTH A tobacco extract broth containing soluble burley tobacco components was prepared according to the following procedure. One hundred grams of burley tobacco strip was extracted with 1 liter of distilled water at 0 50C for 24 hours.. After expressing through 4 layers of cheesecloth, the following nutrients were added to the tobacco extract KH2P04 5.2 g K2HPO4 10.7 g MgS04 7H20 0.2 g NH4Cl 1.0 g FeC13 0.002 g Glucose 10.0 g Water To make 1 liter The final broth should contain between 100 2500 ppm nitrate nitrogen. Following sterlization in an autoclave at 15 psi for 15 minutes, the pH was adjusted to 7.0 using sterile 2N KOH.D. INOCULUM BUILD UP Paracoccus denitrificans cells from 48 hour old agar slants prepared in Step A, were transferred into 250 ml of sterile nitrate broth Step B in a 1 liter fermentation flask. The mix ture was sparged with nitrogen and maintained at 350C for 24 hours with rotary agitation at 60 rpm. The resultant culture was used to inoculate fresh nitrate or tobacco extract broth. Transfers in this manner were repeated at least five times. After the fifth transfer, cells were harvested by centrifugation and resuspended in nitrate broth. This culture was then used to inoculate 10 liters of nitrate broth to give an initial concentration of approximately l x 107 cells per milliliter. The fermentor used was a New Brunswick Scientific Company, ModularMicroferm Bench Top Fermentor Series MF 114 equipped with a pH recorder controller and dissolved oxygen recorder controller. The starting dissolved oxygen DO was 5 ppm neither nitrogen gas nor air were sparged during the fermentation. The DO was totally depleted in the first 15 minutes. After approximately 24 hours, 95 of the nitrate was reduced. Total nitrogen content was also reduced.The nitrate nitrogen content was determined using aTechnicon Autoanalyzer II system with a modification of the procedure as published by L. F. Kamphake et al., International Journal of Air and Water Pollution, 1, 205 216, 1976. Total nitrogen content was determined by Kjeldahl digestion using a TechniconBlock Digestor followed by an Autoanalyzer readout of ammonia by the Berthelot reaction. Fermentation conditions and results are shown below. FERMENTATION CONDITIONSTime 24 hours.Temperature 350C 0.20C. pH 7.0 7.2 maintained by automated acid base additions using sterile 2N KOH or 2M acetic acidAgitation 100 rpmInoculum 1 x 107 cells per milliliter initial concentrationDO initial of 5 ppm no control of DO was used. Table 2 Results 0 Time .24 Hours NO3 N ppm 1416 78 Total N mg ml 1.06 0.15 Glucose mg ml 11.0 3.7 Example 2 A tobacco extract containing 2600 ppm soluble nitratenitrogen was placed in a MF 114 Microform fermentor New BrunswickScientific Company equipped with pH and dissolved oxygen monitors and controllers. To the extract were added on a g l basis, 1.0 g NH4C1, 0.2 g MgSO4.7H 0,.l0 9 glucose, 0.002 g FeCl3, 10.7 g K2HPO4, and 5.2.g KH2PO4. The mixture was sterilized at 15 psi for 45 minutes, cooled, and inoculated with Paracoccus denitrificans as.prepared in Example 1 D . The initial concentration of micro organisms was approximately 1 x 107 cells per milliliter.FERMENTATION CONDITIONSTemperature 350CInitial pH 7.0 pH 6.8 7.2 controlled with either sterile 2N KOH or 2M acetic acidAgitation 200 rpmDO 0. 0.5 ppmSparge N2 gas controlled by DO moniter and controllerTime 72 hoursAnalytical results are tabulated in Table 3. Table 3Tobacco Extract NO, N ppm NO2 N ppm Total N ppm O Time 2600 N.D. 4800 72 Hours 10 N.D. 2200 Not detectable , Example 3 In a similar manner to Example 2, a tobacco extract was prepared having a nitrate nitrogen content of800 ppm. following addition of the buffering salts and nutrients as in Example 2, the mixture was sterilized and inoculated with a suspension of Paracoccus denitrificans grown in a nitrate broth as described inExample l D to give an initial concentration of approximately 3 x 107 cells per milliliter. Fermentation conditions were identical to Example 2. The results are tabulated in Table 4 below. Table 4Tobacco Extract NO N ppm NO N ppm Total N ppm O Time 1800 N.D. 3820 24 Hours 10 N.D. 2000 Example 4 In a similar manner to Example 2 a tobacco extract was prepared having a nitrate nitrogen content of 2000 ppm. Following addition of the buffering salts and nutrients as in Example 2, the mixture was sterilized and inoculated with a suspension of Paracoccus denitrificans grown in a nitrate broth as described inExample 1 D to give an initial concentration of about 3 x 107 cells per milliliter.FERMENTATION CONDITIONSTemperature 350CInitial pH 7.0 pH 6.8 7.2 controlled with either sterile 2N KOH or 2M acetic acidAgitation 300 rpmDO 0 0.5 ppmSparge Helium gas. sparged at 200 ml minute continuously Time 24 hours The results are tabulated in Table 5 below. Table 5 Time N03 N ppm NO N ppm Total N ppm O Time 2000 N.D. 3700 24 Hours 10 N.D. 1800 Example 5 Burley tobacco components including 1 filler, 2 stems, 3 strip, and 4 fines were placed in individual flasks.Nutrients and buffering salts were added in the following amounts based on a total final volume of 1 liter 10,7 g K2HPO4, 5.2 g KH2P04 0.002 g FeCl3 0.2 g MgS04 7H2O, 1.0 g NH4C7, and 10.0 g glucose. Following sterilization for 45 minutes at 15 psi, the contents of each flask were inoculated with Paracoccus denitrificans broth as prepared in Example 1 to give an initial concentration of about 3 x 10 cells per milliliter.FERMENTATION CONDITIONSTemperature 350C Initial pH 7.0Agitation 60 rpmDO 0.5 ppmSparge N2 gas intermittentTime 24 hours The results are tabulated in Tables 6, 7, and 8. Table 6 NO3 N X NO3 N mg g tobacco ReductionStem 5Z W V O Time 38.5 24 Hours N.D. 100Fines SX W V O Time 38.5 24 Hours N.D. 100 Table 7 Total N NO3 N NO2 N mg g tobacco mg g tobacco mg g Tobacco Filler O Time 40.4 19 3 N.D. 10 W V 24 Hours 23.4 N.D. N.D.Strip O Time 40.4 17.9 N.D. 10 W V 24 Hours 21.6 N.D. N.D. Table 8 NO3 N X N03 N mg g tobacco Reduction Tobacco Filler O Time 19.55 20X W V 24 Hours 14.38 26.5 48 Hours 0 100 Strip O Time 21.28 20 W V 24 Hours 7.94 62.7 48 Hours 0 lOO Example 6 An aqueous effluent sample containing 1360 ppm nitratenitrogen was adjusted to pH 7.0 with 2M K2HPO4 and 2N KOH. Two hundred and fifty milliliter aliquots of the buffered effluent samples were placed in two l liter flasks Into one flask was added 0.25 g,NH4CI, 0.05, g MgS04 7H20, 0.0005 g FeCl3, and 2.5 g glucose. No nutrients were added to the other flask. Both flasks were autoclaved at 15 psi for 45 minutes, cooled, and inoculated with Paracoccus denitrificans to give an initial concentration of about 1 x 107 cells per milliliter. The flasks were sparged for five minutes with oxygen scrubbed nitrogen gas, and then placed in a rotary shaking water bath. The flasks were agitated at 80 rpm for 16 hours at 350C. The results are tabulated in Table 9 below. Table 9 X NO3 N NO3 N ppm ReductionBuffer only 0 Time 1360 16 Hours 320 76.4 Complete system 0 Time 1360 16 Hours 1