# Treatment of coal tar.

## Abstract
A process for the treatment of coal tar comprising thoroughly mixing the coal tar with a surface active composi tion chosen from the class of compounds having the general formula CH₃ CH₂

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for treating a stable emulsion of coal tar material containing water and quinoline insolubles, comprising mixing a surface active composition with said material, so as to facilitate the segregation of at least a portion of at least one of said water and said quinoline insolubles from said mixture, where said surface active composition is chosen from the class of compounds having the general formula CH3 CH2 xCH2 OCH2C 2 yOS M where the average value of x is in the range 6.5 to 13, y is at least 1.5, and represents one of sodium and ammonium ions. 2. A process as defined in Claim 1, wherein saia segregated portion of at least one of said water and said quinoline insolubles is separated from said mixture. 3. A process as defined in Claim 1, wherein y is at most 6. 4. A process as defined in Claims 1 or 3, wherein the average value of x is about 10. A A process as defined in Claim 2 wherein said separation is carried out by decantation of said mixture. 6. A process as defined in Claim 2 wherein said separation is carried out by centrifugation of said mixture. 7. A process as defined in Claims 2, 3 or 4 wherein said separation is carried out at a temperature greater than 700C. 8. A process as defined in Claims 2, 3 or 4 where in said surface active composition is added to said coal material in an amount which constitutes between 0.001 and 18 of said coal tar material. 9. A process as defined in Claim 1, wherein the adhesion of constituents of said coal tar material to contacting surfaces is significantly reduced. 10. A process as defined in Claim l or 3, wherein said surface active composition comprises compounds hav ing branched chain alkyl groups. 11. A process as defined in Claim 1 or 3, wherein said surface active composition comprises compounds hav ing straight chain alkyl groups.

## Description
TREATMENT OF COAL TAIL rhe present invention relates to bituminous material. Norse particularly, it relates to a method for modifying coal tar material. The water content of coal tars is one of its or variable and troublesome characteristics. Associated Elth this water content are ammonium compounds, in particular ammonium chloride, to which much of the equipment corrosion during tar distillation can be attributed. While the addition or alkali to the tar will reduce the corrosion, the usually non volatile alkali compound remains in the pitch residue following distillation, often affecting its properties adversely. Attempts have been made, with varying degrees of success to eliminate or diminish the water content of the tar. The less successful ones have included addition of electrolyte, modification of the tar pH, freezing of the tar, and subjecting the tar to high frequency mechanical agitation. Among the more successful processes has been boiling the tar. Nonetheless such a procedure is rather energy intensive and generally fails to achieve an adequate reduction in the water content of the tar. Another problem that has plagued the users of tar is the often high and also variable content of quinoline insolubles Q.I. therein. The problem is particularly noticeable when these insolubles are concen tra ed in the pitch residue followin3 the distillation ot ..e tar. The particulae nature of Q. I. rencers dif ficult virtually any process which requires tne passage of the pitch through small orifices, eg. in tne impregn2 tion of porous, caked carbon bodies.Additionally, should the Q.I. have a high inorganic portion, the com bustion rate of the carbon body produced by coking or otherwise carbonizing the pitch will be significantly increased. It is believed that the water and Q.I. are associated with each other to form the disperse phase or a staole emulsion in the coal tar material which is difficult to break by conventional means. Another problem often encountered during the handling or transport of coal tar material is the adhesion and or deposition of coal tar components on surfaces contacting the coal tar material. Accordingly, it is an object of this invention to provide an improved process for the dewatering of tars. It is also another object of this invention to decrease the quinoline insoluble content in the tar. It is yet another object of the present inven tion to provide a means whereby the afore mentioned adhe sion and tar deposition of coal tar material components cn contacting surfaces is minimized. The process for treating coal tar material containing water and quinoline insolubles, comprising mixing a surface active composition with said .material so as to facilitate the segregation of at least a portion of at least one of said water and said quinoline insolubles from said tar where said surface active tomoosition con tains as the active ingredient, a member chosen from the group comprising the class of compounds having the general formula CH3 CH2 xCH2 0CH2CH2 yOSO3 M t where the average value of x lies in the range 6.5 to 13, y is at least 1.5, and M represents one of sodium and ammonium ions. Accordingly, the present invention relates to process whereby a bituminous material, in particular coa . tar, can be treated in order to decrease the amount of water and quinoline insolubles contained therein.Broadly stated, this process will comprise the steps of thoroughly mixing the tar with a surface active composition defined below, so as to facilitate the segregation of at least one of the water and the quinoline insoluble from the mixture, which can be subsequently separated from the mixtures. The surface active composition used herein will comprise a member chosen from the class of compounds having the general formula CH3 CH2 xCH2 CH2CH2 y S 3 M where the average value oi x lies in the range 6.5 to 13, y is at least 1.5 and M represents one of sodium and ammonium ions. Clearly individual values of x can lie within or outside these bounds.For example, a particularly efficacious composi tion for use herein is the ethoxylated sulfate prepared from the C13 alcohol, ie. x 11 in the above terminology. The ethylene oxide portion will usually constitute about 40 of the molecular weight, which will correspond to y taking cn values in the range 1.5 to 6, The amount of surface active composition which will be employed will usually range from about 0.001 to 1 of the coal tar material, althougn quantities which fall outside these limits may also be used, depending on the material being treated and the end result sought.The surfactant for use in the above noted separation of water and Q.I. from coal tar, can be either derived from an ethylene condensation process, in which case the alkyl group is straight chain, or alternatively it can be derived from a propylene condensatlon process in which case the alkyl group will have a branched chain. Procedurally, the present invention will com prise mixing the surface active composition with he tar at a temperature where the tar is in a relatively fluid state, in any event stirrable or usable typically about 70 900C . For example, the surface active cow.posi tion may be bled in while the tar is being pumped into a storage tank, thus uniformly distributing the additive throughout the tar while obviating the need for any special mixing equipment. The mixture is maintained at the stirrable temperature while the ensuing separation is carried out. It should be noted, however, that an increase in temperature can improve the separation, but may lead to some modification of the constituents of the tar. The separation may be carried out, for example, merely by leaving the mixture in a quiescent state while permitting the water and solids to separate as the top and bottom strata of the mixture, which may be subsequently separated fro tar by neans of decantation or the like. Alternatively, an improved separation can be obtained if techniques such as centrifugation of the mixture are employed.The separation technique employed will, in part, determine the degree to which water and quinoline insolubles will be separated from the tar. This process can alternatively be recast into a cyclic system where a portion of the separated water is bled off and fresh surfactant added thereto, co replenish its concentration before being returned to the treatment stews. While it is not entirely clear how the addition of the surface active composition can cause a separation of both the quinoline insoluble and the water from the tar it is believed that the water and the quinoline insoluble content of the untreated material are somehow associated with each other so as to form a disperse phase having an apparent density which is substantially the same as that of the tar. The addition of the surfaceactive agent causes these components of the disperse phase to dissociate and rise or sink in the body of tar according to their respective specific gravities relative to tar. A desirable attribute of the present process is the substantial absence of residual surface active agent in the tar following the separation of the tar from the water, since the surface active agent will be associated with and removed with the water.A portion of this separated liquid containing the surface active agent can be recycled and reused in further separations after tne concentration of the surface acti agent eoema has been replenished. This procedure has tne advantage or eliminating or minimizing the adhesion to and deposition on the surfaces in contact with the coal tar, such as pumps, pipes, storage tanks, etc. In addition to the removal of the water and Q.I. from the tar, the present invention generally removes salts, electrolytic material and other inorganics associated with the Q.1. and the water which might result in an increased corrosion during processing and an increased oxidation rate of the coke forred therefrom.However the actual mechanism whereby the addition of the surface active agent affects the quinoline insolubles, water and or the tar itself may be quite different from the hypothetical one outlined above and accordingly we would not wish to be restricted thereto. The following examples will serve to illustrate some embodiments of the present invention.Example 1 The heavy tar which was to be subjected to the process of the present invention was first mixed with an ethoxylated sulfated ester salt of fatty alcohols having an average chain length of 13 carbon atoms in the above terminology, where x 11 , and an average value of y 2.2, approximately.The mixing of tar with the surface active agent was carried out at about 80 900C following which 2 samples of the tar mixture containing 0.12 by weight of this surface active agent were allowed to stand in ovens at temperatures of about 75 and 900, res ec lively for about 24 hours, simulating the conditions of relative quiescence and temperneure prevailing in a tar storage tank. The water which separated at the surface was decanted of f and measured while the residual water content of the tar was also measured.The results, which indicate the proportions of the water separated by decantation and the water residual in the tar are indicated in Table I below. The small discrepancies in the total water contents before and after treatment are insignificant. A water reducing agent for tars, commonly used in the industry, and which comprises a polypropylene oxide type surfactant sold under the trademark Treto lite was added to the tar in proportions which consti tuted 0.28 by weight of the resultant mixture. This mixture was divided into 2 portions and subjected to the same treatment as described above. The residual water content of the tar were measured and was found substantially unchanged. These results which are summarized inTable I below, indicate that recourse to the present invention results in a better separation of the water from tar. In a similar experiment, tar having an augmented water content about 18.4 by weight of the tar water mixture was prepared and two samples from this mixture were treated with about 0.1 by weight of the present invention surface active agent, and 0.28 by weight Tretolite Trl . The samples were placed in an oven set at 90 C. Following 24 hours of this treatment, the separated and residual water contents of the tar determined for each of the samples, and are summarized in table I below. As before, notwithstanding the smaller amounts of surface active agent employed, the present invention results in better water removal from the tar. TABLE IEMI8.1 tb SEP Present SEP Inven tb SEP tion SEP Suface SEP 0.2 Tretolite SEP tb SEP Active SEP Agent SEP t SEP SEP TM SEP tb SEP Water SEP Water SEP Water SEP Water tb SEP Tar SEP as SEP Decant SEP Remain SEP Decant SEP Renain tb SEP Received SEP ed SEP af SEP ing SEP ed SEP af SEP ing tb SEP rer SEP 24 SEP after SEP ter SEP 24 SEP after tb SEP hr. SEP 24 SEP hr. SEP hr. SEP 24 SEP hr. SEP tb SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP tb SEP Water SEP tb Tar SEP Sample SEP 9.0 tb 24 SEP hrs. SEP at SEP 750C SEP 2.2 SEP 6.4 SEP Nil SEP 8.5 tb 24 SEP hrs. SEP at SEP 900C SEP 5.0 SEP 3.5 SEP Nil SEP 8.0 tb Tar SEP Sample SEP T SEP 10 tb Water SEP mixed SEP in SEP 18.4 tb After SEP 24 SEP hr s. SEP tb at SEP 90 C SEP 13.5 SEP 4.0 SEP 5.0 SEP 12.5 SEP tb Example 2 While the present invention can be successfully employed with tars having a high Q.I. content, it can also be applied to tars having a relatively low Q.I., as this example demonstrates. Accordingly, tar samples having a Q.I. content of 7.3R and containing 0.1 by weight of the same sur face active agent employed in the preceding example were prepared. equal proportions of untreated and treated tar were spun at a high speed about 1000 r.p.m. on a clinical centrifuge for 5 minutes at 70, 80 and 90 C. The Q.I. of the overflow fraction of the cntrifed material was measured, and is summarized n Table II below. It will be evident upon an examination of the table that the decrease in the Q.I. ranges from between about 20 25 , and the overflow fraction from the higher temperature centrifugation could be used in the preparation of an impregnating pitch. TABLE IIEMI9.1 tb SEP Centrifugation SEP Temperature tb SEP 900C SEP 1 SEP SEP 80 C SEP 700C tb SEP z SEP Q.I. SEP in SEP the SEP overflow SEP fraction tb Untreated tb Tar SEP 4.1 SEP 4.3 SEP 4.6 tb Treated tb Tar SEP 3.1 SEP 3.3 SEP 3.6 tb The overflow of about 85 from the two samples of tar i.e. untreated and treated which had been centrifuged at 900C, were subjected to filtration carried out at 900C and under a nitrogen pressure of 75 p.s.i.g. The proportion of the tar sample that passed through the filter in the first minute was about 54 in the case of the untreated tar and 62 in the case of the treated tar. The reason for the easier filtration of the treated tar include the presence of a smaller amount of solids, and a lower tar viscosity due to the treatment.Example 3 This example illustrates how the addition of the surface active agent of the present invention to the tar and allowing the tar to stand as described in the present Invention can result in a mary stratificat on of some of the components therein, e. the Q.I., free carbon and water anc comparing their concentraions in the untreated tar which is homogeneous due to the stability of the water Q.I. emulsions. 0.1 of surface active agent was mixed with the tar at 850C, samples taken from the middle and bottom strata and tested for their Q.I., free carbon and water contents, after the tar had been allowed to stand for about 4.5 hours. This procedure was repeated after a standing time of 25 hours. The results of these tests as well as values of Q.I., free carbon and the water content in the untreated tar are summarized in Table III below. The entries in the table below demonstrate how the treatment serves to increase the free carbon and theQ.I. content of the bottom layers while reducing the water content therein from 17.3 to 2 . Obviously, the decrease in the water content of the lower strata will be balanced by an equivalent increase in the upper strata from which it can easily be removed. TABLE IIIEMI10.1 tb SEP Untreated SEP Middle SEP Bottom tb SEP Tar SEP Stratum SEP Stratum tb SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP tb Quinoline SEP tb Insoluble SEP 0 SEP hrs SEP 14.3 SEP 14.3 SEP 14.3 tb SEP 4.5 SEP SEP 14.3 SEP 14.8 SEP 15.9 tb SEP 28 SEP SEP 14.3 SEP 16.0 SEP 16.1 tb Free SEP Carbon SEP 0 SEP hrs SEP 20.8 SEP 20.8 SEP 20.8 tb SEP 4.5 SEP SEP 20.8 SEP 23.1 SEP 24.6 tb SEP 28 SEP SEP 20.8 SEP 22.7 SEP 24.8 tb Water SEP 0 SEP hrs SEP 17.3 SEP 17.3 SEP 17.3 tb SEP 4.5 SEP SEP 17.3 SEP .3.0 SEP 3.0 tb SEP 28 SEP SEP 17.3 SEP 2.0 SEP 2.0 tb Example 4 This example illustrates the substantial equi valence of the branched chain and straight chain surface active agents in the present invention. u.05q OL surfactant being tested were stirred into 50g of tar containing 13B by weight of water at 85 and poured into centrifuge tubes and allowed to stand overnight before being centrifuged for 1 minute. The table below summarises the experimental results which indicate the substantial equivalence of the linear sur face active agent as exemplified by Cedepal SS 406 an the branched chain surface active agent as exemplified by Cedepal TD 407 as the tar dewatering agents. Table IVEMI11.1 tb Surfactant SEP Name SEP TM SEP Average SEP Value SEP of SEP SEP Water SEP in SEP Tar tb SEP TYPE SEP x SEP SEP SEP after SEP Treatment tb Cedepal SEP SS 406 tb SEP Linear SEP 10 SEP 7 tb Cedepal SEP TD 407 tb SEP Branched SEP 11 SEP 5 tb Where x 2 represents the number of carbon atoms in the alkyl group. The description and examples provided above arz for the purpose of providing a cbmplete disclosure of th invention, and alterations and modifications within the scope of the amended claims, may occur to those skilled in the art.