# Method for manufacturing contacts on semiconductor devices and devices made by this method.

## Abstract
The present invention complements a previous invention on a self aligned process for MESFET transistors. After the gate electrode 11 is defined, leaving a very fine gap in between the ohmic 12 and the gate contacts, the different etch rate of the two contacts with respect to ion etching is exploited in order to increase the separation in the pad region.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method of defining the second contact in a semiconductor structure corn prising at least one first contact with a well defined geometry and a second contact with yet undefined geometry being such method characterized by the use of ion etching in the definition of the second contact mentio ned above and by the fact that the first contact,already defined, is made of a material relatively unsensitive to ion, sputter or plasma etching while the second contact is made of a highly sensitive material, or that such difference in etching rate can be obtained by the choice of a suitable atmosphere. 2. A process as claimed in 1, wherein the first contact with defined geo metry is the gate electrode of a eats FET, and the second contact compri ses the source and drain electrodes. 3. A process as claimed in 1 or 2 wherein the geometry of the second elec trode is defined by a photoresist mask. 1. A process as claimed in i, 2 or 3, wherein the geometry of the second contact is defined by a metallic or dielectric mask obtained by I lifting . 5. A process as claimed in one or more of the previous claims, wherein the etching process is performed hy D.C. or R.F. sputtering or ion beam or plasma etching. . A process as claimed in one or more of the previous claims, wherein the first contact is made of aluminum and the second contact is made of an ohmic contact of one or more of the following materials Au, Ge, NiCr, i, ,. A process as claimed in one or more of the previous claims, wherein the second contact is totally or selectively plated before the etching is performed. S. Aprocess as claimed in one or more of the previous claims, wherein a reactive gas is used during the etching process in order to enhance the difference in etching rates between the first contact and the second con tact. 9. A process as claimed in , wherein the reactive gas is oxygen and the first contact is made of aluminum. 10. A semiconductor device, in particular a GaAs FET fabricated according to the process as claimed in one or more of the previous claims.

## Description
Improvement in a method for manufacturing Cemiconductor devices DESCR I PT I The present invention relates to an improvement in manufacturing semiconductor devices. In the United States Patent No. , 0S 712 by the same inventor, a process is described for manufacturing MES FET transistors with self aligned Schottky barrier gate electrodes.Once the gate electrode is fabricated with the process described in the abo ve mentioned patent, th problem arises of defining the geometry of the ohmic contacts representing the Source and Drain contacts.The geometrical definition of such contacts, generally made by layers ofAu, Ge, NiCr or an alloy of Au and Ge, is not trivial insofar as the ma terials forming the ohmic contacts can not be easily etched by wet chemi stry while the gate electrode, made of Al, can be very easily etched.The present invention relates to a process whereby the geometry of the abo ve mentioned ohmic contacts is shaped without any appreciable damage to the gate electrode previous defined.The present invention makes use of ion milling or sputter etching and exploits the relatively high ratio between the etching rate of the material forming the ohniic contact tipically Au Ge and the material forming the gate eec trode tipically Alj, relative to ion etching.Again, according ro this invention, such ratio of the etching rates can be increased by the ddition of reactive gases to the armosphere of the etching chamber e. . oxygen in the case of Al vs Au . The present invention will be now described in connection with a preferred enbodiement with reference to the enclosed drawings. However it will be understood that such description is only meant as an illustrative but not limitative examplt. Figure 1 and 1a show respectively a view from the top and a cross section of a tipical semiconductor device to be processed according to this inventior. Figure 2 and 2a show, respectively, a view from the top and a cross section of the device at an intermediate stage in processing according to this invent ion.Figure 3 and 3a show, respectively, a view from the top and a cross section of the device after the process is completed according to this invention. sith reference to fig. 1 and la the dex e is shown at a given stage in its fabrication Drocess the semiconductor wafer e.g. Zas is shown after a gate electrode, made e.G. of aluminum, has been defined e.g. according to the prCess described in U.S. patent No. 4 , 018, 712. The gate electrode 11 is surrounded by an ohmic contact metallization 12, made e.g. of Au Ce, which must be selectively etched in order to define two separate areas, constituting the source and drain electrodes, when this process is performed in the fabrication of a F.E.T.Next, with reference to fig. 2 and 2a, a layer of masking material e.g.photoresist of suitable thickness 13 is deposited over the portion of oh mic contact to be preserved, as well as a portion of the gate electrode. The wafer is then processed by ion etching, plasma etching, R.F. or P.L. sDu tering in such a way as to remove the portion od ohmic contact which i not protected b the masking material 13.During this etching process the ohmic metallization 12 is preferentially etched with respect to the gate metalli ation 13 because of the different etching rate of Al vs. Au Ge. Actually, especially in presence of an oxidi ing atmosphere in the etching chamber, rhe gate electrode is almost unaffected by the etching process.The process according to this invention allows a definition of the ohmic contacts without chemical etching. Selective chemical etching would not be easy considering the nature of the materials in question and masking selectively the gate electrode would require a very critical aligning step due to the geometries tipical of semiconductor devices, in particular the channel region of a F.E.T.Also this invention allows one to electroplate gold onto the source and drain contents before the etching is performed, because of the electrical continu tv of the ohmic metallization before etching. This compares to the procedure generally used where the gate electrode is initially defined as surrounding the source and drain areas rather than viceversa as in Fig. 1 . In this case the definition of the gate electrode by chemical etching beco runes easy because it requires selectively etching Al with respect to Au but one can not electroplate the gold because of a lack of electrical continuity.Finally we wish to mention that one can use to some advantage a metallic or dielectric layer defined e.g. by lifting, instead than photoresist, as masking material in the etching process No. 13 of fig. 2, 2a .