# Two wire bus system comprising a clock wire and a data wire for interconnecting a number of stations.

## Abstract
A computer system comprises a number of stations which are interconnected by means of a clock bus wire 20 and a data bus wire 22 which both form a wired logic function of the signals generated thereon by the stations 32, 34 . During the clock pulses, the signal on the data bus wire is stationary it may change between the clock pulses. Start and stop conditions are formed by a signal combination between clock bus wire and data bus wire 60 and 62, respectively which is not permissible in a data stream. If there is more than one master station so that a composite clock signal occurs on the clock bus wire, the clocks of the relevant master stations are each time resynchronized to the actual transitions in the composite clock signal.

## Claims
1. A computer system, comprising a first number of stations 32, 34 which are interconnected by a two wire line, comprising a clock wire 20 and a data wire 22 for transporting thereon a series of data bits, and per data bit a synchronizing clock signal in parallel therewith, between at least one transmitting station and at least one receiving station, characterized in that said clock wire is a clock bus wire and said data wire is a data bus wire, both wires being provided with means 28, 30 for forming a wired logic function between the voltage levels which denote a first and a second logic value respectively which are transmitted by the relevant stations, so that the voltage level on both wires can be pulled to the first logic value by each station connected, said set of transmitting receiving stations comprising master stations and slave stations, each master station comprising first means for generating a clock pulse having the second logic value. on the clock wire per bit cell, said at least one transmitting station comprising second means for presenting a data bit on the data wire per bit cell for a period of time which covers the duration of the associated clock pulse on the clock pulse wire, including the edges thereof, each master station also comprising a third means for forming a first stop signal by forming a signal transition on the data wire from said first to said second logic value, during the presence of a signal of the second logic value on the clock wire b fourth means for forming a first start signal by forming a signal transition on the data wire from said second logic value to said first logic value during the pre sence of a signal of the second logic value on the clock wire all non master stations connected comprising fifth means for continuously presenting said second logic value to the clock wire, all non transmitting stations connected comprising sixth means for continuously presenting said second logic value to the data wire. 2. A communication system as claimed in Claim 1, characterized in that in the case of at least two simultaneously transmitting stations, these stations are all master stations, each master station comprising a time slot generator 108, 110 with an input for receiving a second start signal 78, 86 which is generated on the clock wire and for supplying an end signal 114 after termination of the time slot started thereby, said first means being suitable for forming a modified signal 76, 83, 84 for. the clock wire under the control of said end signal, there also being provided a detector 116 for detecting a signal transition on the clock wire as an exclusive representation of said second start signal. 3. A station for use as a master station in a communication system as claimed in Claim 1 wherein said second and fourth means are suitable for starting a data transport operation by successively forming said first start signal a first series of at least two data bits having said first logic value a second series of at least one data bit having said second logic value a third start signal whose shape corresponds to the first start signal 4. A communication system for use with a station as claimed in Claim 3, wherein all stations connected comprise an interrogation device, whose dead time is shorter than the value corresponding to the length of said first series.

## Description
Two wire bus system comprising a clock wire and a data wire for interconnecting a number of stations. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The invention relates to a con cation system, comprising a first number of stations which are interconnected by a two wire line, comprising a clock wire and a data wire for transporting thereon a series of data bits, and per data bit a synchronizing clock signal in parallel therewith, between at least one transmitting station and at least one receiving station. The stations may be of different types they may be micro computers with a data processing function, but also input output processors, function generators, memories, input output equipment such as keyboards or displays, or sensors for physical chemical quantities. A system of the described kind is known fromUnited States Patent Specification 3889236 PHD 72133 , assigned to Applicant.The known system provides the data transport via the two wire line in only one direction. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION It is an object of the invention to enable a single two wire line to be used for the interconnection of a number of stations which is not limited a priori, reliable synchronization being obtained and simple signalling of the beginning and the end of a communication operation being possible.The object in accordance with the invention is realized in that said clock wire is a clock bus wire and in that said data wire is a data bus wire, both wires comprising means for forming a wired logic function between the voltage levels of a first and a second logic value which are transmitted by the relevant stations, so that the voltage level on both wires can be pulled to the first logic value by each station connected, said transmitting re eel ving stations being divided into master stations and slave stations, each master station comprising first means for generating a clock pulse having the second logic value on the clock wire per bit cell, said at least one transmitting station comprising second means for presenting a data bit on the data wire per bit cell for a period of time which covers the duration of the associated clock pulse on the clock pulse wire, including the edges thereof, each master station also comprising a third means for forming a first stop signal by forming a signal transition on the data wire from said first to said second logic value during the presence of a signal of the second logic value on the clock wires b fourth means for forming a first start signal by form ing a signal transition on the data wire from said second to said first logic value during the presence of a signal of the second logic value on the clock wires all non master stations connected comprising fifth means for continuously presenting said second logic value to the clock wire, all non transmitting stations connected comprising sixth means for continuously presenting said second logic value to the data wire. A station which generates a message is a transmitting station. A station which absorbs a message is a receiving station.A station which co controls the transport of a message is a master station. A station which is exclusively controlled by one or more stations during the transport of a message is a slave station. Any station which is suitable to act as a master this is not necessary for all stations, for example, not for the said sensors can initiate a data transport, starting from a rest condition. While there is a given distribution of the functions of master and slave stations, the functions of a transmitting receiving station may change, for example, in that a first message is answered by a second message. In the case of at least two simultaneously transmitting stations, these stations are preferably all master stations, each master station comprising a time slot generator with an input for receiving a second start signal which is generated on the clock wire and means for supplying an end signal after termination of the time slot started thereby, said first means being suitable for forming a modified signal for the clock wire under the control of said end signal, there also being provided a detector for detecting a signal transition on the clock wire as an exclusive representation of said second start signal.Thus, all transmitting stations are synchronized alternately by the transmitting station which first forms a signal transition to the first logic value on the clock wire and the transmitting station which last forms a signal transition to the second logic value on the clock wire.Thus, the data simultaneously appearing on the data wire can also be detected without interference between them. Interference is not to be understood to mean herein the mutual influencing of the voltage level, because a single data bit of the first logic value wouldmask any data bits of the second logic value. However, as a result of the organization, the data bits appear each time in defined time slots. A half handshake is thus formed. As a result, comparatively large differences between the time slots produced by the relevant time slot generators can be compensated for. Such differences may be due to different internal clock frequencies of the otherwise identical time slot generators, but may also be due to the fact that the signal generators for the clock wires exhibit differences in the ratio between the durations of the first and the second logic signal value.It is to be noted that a transmitting station can at the same time detect the signal on the clock wire and or data wire, so that it is known whether or not its own signal is masked. The case whore several stations act simultaneously as a transmitter occurs during the arbitration procedure to be described hereinafter.Preferably in a station for use as a master station in such communication system said second and fourth means are suitable for starting a data transport operation by successively forming said first start signal a first series of at least two data bits having said first logic value a second series of at least one data bit having said second logic value a third start signal whose shape corresponds to the first start signal all stations connected comprising an interrogation device whose dead time is shorter than the value corresponding to the length of said first series.In general there are two types of station first of all, there are stations which are continuously on stand by, for example, a memory such a memory may be activated at an arbitrary instant. Secondly, there are stations in which given processing procedures take place, or stations which do not have to be continuously active for other reasons. Such stations, for example microprocessors, may comprise means for receiving an interrupt signal, so that the current activities are stopped. The relevant station can then also be activated at an arbitrary instant. However, there are also microprocessors without an interrupt mechanism. As a result of the described step, such microprocessors need not interrogate the data line twice or more per clock pulse period, but only at least once during said series. As a result, the efficiency of the internal processing is increased. Dead time of a connected station is to be understood to mean the longest period of time occurring between two successive interrogation instants. Thus, for a station comprising an interrupt mechanism, the length of this d time equals zero.When an element of the first series is detected, the station having a comparatively long dead time can change over to an increased interrogation frequency. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES Figure 1 shows diagrammatically the interconnection of two stations Figure 2 shows a time diagram of the data transfer between two stations Figure 3 shows a time diagram of the starting stopping of the data transfer Figure 4 shows a second time diagram of a start operation Figure 5 shows a time diagram of the synchronization between several master stations Figure 6 shows a time diagram of the arbitration between several stations Figure 7 shows a block diagram of a station at the register level. Figure 8 shows a diagram of a bidirectional data transfer operation. FUNCTIONAL DESCRIPTION OF AN EMBODIMENT Figure 1 shows diagrammatically the connection of two stations to a clock wire 20 SCL and a data wire 22 SDA . The two stations 32, 34 comprise signal receivers 40, 42, 44, 46 for example amplifiers having a sufficiently high input impedance. The stations furthermore comprise transistors 48, 50, 52, 54, for example MOS transistors.When one of these transistors becomes conductive, the relevant line 20, 22 assumes a low potential. Also present are resistors 28, 30. Terminals 24, 26 are to be connected to a high voltage VDD . If the transistors 48 and 52 are both cut off, the potential of the line 22 becomes substantially equal to VDD. The values of the resistors 28, 30 are large with respect to the resistances of the transistors in the conductive state, and small with respect to those of the signal receivers connected in parallel therewith. When the potential VDD is taken as the logic 1 , each of the lines 20, 22 performs the AND function for the logic signals received thereon. The stations 32, 34 also comprise units 36, 38 which perform further functions to be implemented in the stations they notably form the data source and the data destination for the two wire line.The output signals thereof control the conducting and blocking of the transistors 48, 50, 52, 54. A more detailed diagram of a station will be described with reference toFigure 7. It is to be noted that not all stations have to perform all functions. A station which performs exclusively a slave function need not comprise the means for generating a clock pulse train. A station which must exclusively be capable of receiving data need not comprise means for supplying data to the data wire. In general, a station which can act as a master must comprise the latter means, because otherwise the arbitration procedure to be described hereinafter could not be carried out. Figure 2 shows a time diagram of the data transport between two stations. The clock signal is shown on the upper line SCL . Lo in this case means logic O and high means logic 1 . A sequence of data bits is given on the lower line SDA . The data signal may change between the instants denoted by the lines 56 and 58. The data signal should remain the same between the instants denoted by the lines 58 and 59 i.e. including the time occupied by the edges of the clock signal . It is to be noted that the horizontal lines in the Figures denote the logic voltage levels usually, between the two logic levels a zone Exists in which the translation of the physical voltage level to the logic level is not unambiguous.For a physical voltage step from 0 to 12 Volts, the level logic O is defined, for example, as physically less than 0.5 Volts , and a logic high is defined, for example, as physically at least 10 Volts . In the range between 0.5 and 10 Volts, the discrimination thereof in the stations need not be the uniform. The slopes therefore, denote the ambiguous voltage range.The signals on the line 20 SCL are formed by the master of the data transport, of whether or not they participate in the data transport, the non master stations always produce logic fl1 signals on the 11 me 20. The signals on the line 20 SCL are of a periodic nature in Figure 2.The signals on the line 22 SDA are formed by a transmitting station. The two parallel lines indicate that the data content may be O or 1 . whether or not they participate in the data transport, the non transmitting stations, continuously produce logic 1 signals on the line 22.Thus, the following transport possibilities exist a one master station transmits data to one or more receiving slave stations , b one master station receives data from one slave station. Generally, this function is always preceded by an operation according to a for example before a memory usually a slave station can be read, it has to be addressed. Some devices can perform only one or a few of the four feasible functions for example, a keyboard device will always serve as a master transmitter and a display device with LED elements will always act as a slave receiver . A magnetic or optical disk meMory without buffer will usually have to operate as a master transmitting or receiving . Other devices such as microcomputers can perform all four functions. Figure 3 shows a time diagram of the starting and stopping of the data transport between two stations.Initially, all stations generate high signals on the clock wire and the data wire. The transport is started in that one of these stations generates a transition from high to low on the data wire, while the signal on the clock wire does not change the relevant station thus manifests itself as the new master. This pattern of signals is not permissible for the customary data transport Figure 2 .All other stations thus detect that a new master of the bus manifests itself block 60 . Subsequently, the master produces a transition on the clock line, so that the first data bit can be generated on the data wire this bit 64 may have the value O as well as 1 . The data transport is thus always started with the transmitting stationg being the master station. This situation may prevail throughout the communication procedure. On the other hand, the master station may alternatively address another station as a slave in the course of the procedure, and instruct this slave station to start a transmission operation. During the transmission by the slave, the original master station remains the master this implies that the slave will transmit a message of known length. For the termination of the data transport, first the transmission by the slave, if any, is terminated the slave station then supplies high signals to the clock wire and the data wire. The transmission by the master station is subsequently terminated by means of the stop signal the clock wire being at a low potential, first the potential of the data wire is also made low. Subsequently, the potential of the clock wire is made high. Finally block 62 , the potential of the data wire is made high. The latter signal pattern again is not permissible in customary data transmission, and the actual master thus releases the bus line again, so that a next station can manifest itself as the next master . The following measures allow for dropping the requisite that the message length be prespecified. After reception of each 8 bit data byte the master generates a ninth clock pulse.During this ninth clock pulse interval the receiver master or slave may generate a conventional acknowledge signal by driving the data line to logic zero. Then the transmission between slave emitter and master receiver erg. between a memory and a microcomputer during a memory read out may be terminated in that the master does not produce the acknowledge signal. The slave thereupon produces a high signal on the data bus to enable the master receiver to generate the stop condition. The case where several stations simultaneously manifest themselves as the master will be described later. The periodic nature of the clock signal Figure 2 is maintained each time only between the start condition block 60 and the stop condition block 62 .The start and stop conditions can be detected in a simple manner, if the stations either comprise an interrupt mechanism or interrogate the potential of the data wire at least twice per clock pulse period in order to detect the transitions in the bLocks 60 and or 62, or are continuously prepared to detect and react directly to a signal transition. In this respect, Figure 4 shows a second start procedure where a lower interrogation frequency of the data wire less than twice per clock pulse period suffices. The first start condition in block 66 corresponds. to that in block 60. Subsequently, the actual master of the bus line generates a serial 8 bit data byte having the value 0000 0001 hexadecimal 01 . This means that the signal on the data line remains low for seven clock pulses 1, 2 ... 7 and becomes high between the seventh and the eighth clock pulse. The start byte 0000 0001 must not be used for another communication purpose in the relevant computer system. Receiver stations must not supply an acknowledge signal in reaction to the reception of this code as they would normally do under the central of a data byte addressing such a receiver station. The ninth clock pulse acts as a dummy acknowledge DACK, the data signal then remaining unchanged. Subsequently, the clock wire becomes high again and a next start condition is generated in block 68 identical to block 66 .The combination of start byte plus dummy acknowledge is chosen for compatibility with the format of the data transport yet to be described. The code byte 0000 0001 is reversed for this purpose. Thus, in this case the stations have approximately seven clock pulse periods for detecting the low signal on the data wire the interrogation frequency of the data wire then has to be only at least approximately once per seven clock pulse periods instead of once per half clock pulse period. As a result, for example, in a microcomputer without interrupt mechanism, the internal activities can be performed better because they are held up less often by the interrogation operations.When the low signal on the data wire is detected, the interrogation mechanism of the relevant station is switched over to the higher interrogation speed twice per clock pulse period for correct detection of the second start condition block 68 . For all cases where the first start condition also has an activating effect1 the reception of the next start condition acts as a reset signal. This is the case for continuously alert stations which do not have an internal clock so that they can perform only the slave function.The described configuration of seven data bits 0 and two data bits 1 may also be different, for example 15 x O and 2 z 1t or 3 x t O and 2 x 1tt. As from the formation of the start condition in block 66, the bus is in the condition busy as a result, no new master stations can manifest themselves as such. The bus assumes the condition free after the formation of the stop condition according to block 62 in Figure 3, for example after expiration of a period of time corresponding to one clock pulse period of the relevant station. Figure 5 shows a time diagram of mutual synchronization of several master stations. This situation occurs only if the bus is released in accordance with block 62 in Figure 3. In principle, any station comprising its own clock mechanism can manifest itself as the next master . If the interval of time expiring between these occurren ces is sufficiently long, the second and further stations will detect the occupied condition of the bus in the manner described with respect to Fig. 4. If this interval of time is sufficiently small however, it must be decided to which of the stations the bus will be assigned. Figure 5 shows the relevant synchronization mechanism. This mechanism commences as from the instant of detection of the first clock pulse edge in block 66 in Figure 4 however, the actual arbitration procedure may commence only after completion of block 68. It is assumed that two stations participate in the synchronization procedure.The first station forms the signal of line 70 on the clock wire. The second station forms the signal of line 72. The signal thus summed on the clock wire is shown on line 74. The delay times of the signals on the clock wire are not taken into account. It is assumed that the first station has a clock frequency which is higher than that of the second station. Both stations comprise a time slot generator, for example a counter having a given capacity.In the first instance the carry output signal of this counter controls a transition in the output signal of the relevant station. At 76, the first station produces a signal transition from high to low. At 78, this produces a signal transition from high to low on the clock wire.A subsequent transition from high to low by the second station indicated by the interrupted line at 80 would then have no externally detectable effect. Therefore, the second station comprises a detector which detects the transition at 78 and which subsequently directly controls the transition at 82, the relevant time slot generator then being set to the starting state. In this respect, the figure arbitrarily shows a small delay. At 83, the first station generates a transition from low to high, but this cannot be noticed on the clock wire therefore, the time slot generator of the first station remains blocked for further counting. At 84, the second station also generates a signal transition from low to high.This is the last one of the participating stations to do so so that at 86 the sum signal on the clock wire also becomes high and, under the control thereof, the time slot generators in both stations are started in order to count down the next half clock pulse period. Again a small delay is arbitrarily indicated. The lengths of the high parts of the composite clock signal on line 74 are thus determined by the fastest station generating the shortest time slot . The lengths of the 11low parts are determined by the slowest station generating the longest time slot . If the clock signals are not symmetrical the station produces high and low signals of unequal durations in the nondisturbed condition , the frequency of the internal clock of the station will not be decisive alone. Furthermore, during the starting up of the synchronization, the roles are liable to be reversed if the transition at 82 occurs before that at 76. The starting and blocking of the time slot generators by the signal conditions on the clock wire then always take place in the same manner. In given cases, the transition at 84 may be delayed further in the second station. In that case all time slot generators participating in the synchronization operation will assume the blocked condition. Meanwhile, the second station can perform given operations, for example, the parallel storage of an 8 bit data byte in a local memory after serial reception thereof. The presence of one very slow station together with one or more faster stations does not affect the signal transitions from the first logic value to the second logic value on the clock wire. Figure 6 shows a time diagram of an arbitration procedure between several stations which act as master transmitter . A simpe start procedure has been described with reference to Figure 3, and a more complex start procedure for use with stations which may have a comparatively long dead time has been described with reference to Figure 4. It has also been stated that several stations may manifest themselves simultaneously as the master and the method of activating the non master stations has also been described. It has been described with reference to Fig. 5 how several simultaneously manifest master stations are mutually synchronized at the level of the clock pulse period. If several master stations manifest themselves simultaneously, first a single master station has to be selected prior to the master slave communication.This is realized by means of the arbitration procedure which commences directly after completion of the start operation according to Figure 3 or Figure 4. When it manifests itself, each station s address number, which is a 7 bit number. All address numbers mutually differ. It is not necessary to limit each station to only one feasible address number. Line 200 shows the signal on the clock wire. Line 202 shows the signal generated on the data wire SDA by a first station. Line 204 shows the signal generated on the data wire by a second station. Line 20G shows the signal actually formed on the data wire. It is assumed that all stations are exactly synchronized therefore the synchronization process according to Figure 5 is not shown.After the formation of the start condition, the data wire will be low 208 . If the clock wire becomes low 216 , the data signals may change.The first bits of the two address numbers are assumed to be 1 , so that both stations produce a signal transition 218, 220 and the data wire carries a high signal 210 during the next clock pulse 222 . The second bits of both address numbers are assumed to be O , so that subsequently both stations produce a signal transition again 224, 226 and the data wire carries a low signal 212 during the next clock pulse 228 in correspondence with both address numbers. Of the third address bits, only that of the first station is assumed to be 1 so that a signal transition occurs only at 230 however2 this transition is masked in the signal 206.At the. next clock pulse, the first station will know 214 that it has lost the arbitration the relevant information is stored and this data blocks the further supply of the relevant address number to the data wire. The other station is the winner in this case, but it detects this only after the bits of the entire address number have been successively applied to the data wire. The winning station may subsequently start a communication operation with one or more slave stations. First these stations are selected, followed by the actual data transport subsequently, the slave station stations is are released and the master station generates the previously described stop condition.Non transmitting stations for example, the first station as from line 214 in Figure 6 continuously produce 1 signals on the clock wire and the data wire, except when they act as the master receiver as has already been described. A further possibility is the following. The master manifests itself by generating the address of its intended slave . Consequently, after generation of the slave address the identity of the master is not known to other stations, and a plurality of masterS could be addressing the same slave station. Therefore the arbitrating procedure is continued during the ensuing data transport. If a plurality of mastery stations all transmit the same message to a single slave , none of them will lose the arbitration, EMBODIMENT OF A STATION Figure 7 shows a block diagram of a station at the register level in so far as it concerns the operation of the two wire bus line. The assembly is suitable for incorporation in a microcomputer. The other parts of the microcomputer have been omitted for the sake of simplicity.In a simpler station, several parts may be omitted. The internal clock of the microcomputer is to be connected to input 100. Register 102 contains a status word. Register 104 contains a frequency control word. These registers are connected to an internal 8 bit data bus 1 o6 of the microcomputer. The register 102 contains 4 bits at the extreme left which can be written to and read from the bus 106.The four bits at the top right can be written only from the bus the four bits at the bottom right can only be read to the bus 106. The bits in the part enclosed by a heals line, moreover, can only be written in response to additional signals yet to be described. The register 102 can receive a write control signal WRS1 and a read control signal RDS1 which are formed elsewhere in the computer. The register 104 is filled under the control of a write control signal WRS2 which is also formed elsewhere in the microcomputer. Element 108 is p cg ....able counter which is capable of dividing the frequency on the input 100 by 5, 6, 7 or 8. The selection between these four possibilities is performed by two bits from the register 104. Element 110 is an 8 bit counter which receives the output signal of the counter 108o Element 112 is a multiplexer which receives the bits from the eight bits portion of the counter 110. The selection from these eight bits is controlled by three bits from the register 104. The clock signal appears on line 114 and is applied to a clock control element 116. The clock control element conducts the. clock signal from line 114 to line 118 if a logic function has been performed, i.e. if the relevant station acts as the master station and if, moreover, the enable bit for serial data transport see hereinafter has the value 1 . If the logic function has not been performed, the clock control element 116 continuously generates a logic 1 for clock wire 118. The clock wire 118 is connected to clock filter 120. This filter comprises a data flipflop which receives the signal from the terminal 100 as the write control signal. The interference on the clock signal received is thus adequately suppressed. The interference suppressed clock signal is applied, via line 122, to the clock control element 116 again in order to implement the synchronization in accordance with Figure 5.To this end, a further logic function is formed if the incoming clock signal is high and if the relevant station acts as the master station, an enable signal appears on line 124 it is only this condition is satisfied that the cascade connected counters 108, 110 may continue counting in order to produce the signal indicated in Figure 5 as from indication 88 on the clock wire. If this condition is not satisfied, these counters will stop as from the instant at which a high signal is produced on the clock output. If a signal transition from high to low is produced on the clock wire, a reset signal for the counter 108, 110 will appear on line 125, so that a low signal will be directly generated on the clock wire via line 114 and the counters will count the signals on the line 100.The duration of the low signal on the clock wire is thus determined by the slowest station, the duration of the high signal being determined by the fastest station. The processing of the signal on the line 123 will be described hereinafter. The three further control bits in the register 104 remain available for other functions.The clock control subsystem also comprises a delay element 120 for the clock signals received.This delay element is composed of two cascade connected data flipflops which are both loaded with the internal clock signal which is received on the terminal 100. The output signal of the delayed clock is applied to a logic gate in clock control element 116. The latter gate will only conduct if the relevant station either acts as a master station or has to participate in the address comparison or is selected see later . In that case the shifted clock signal is derived from the delayed clock . If none of the three conditions is satisfied, the lastmentioned gate will continuously output a logic 1 . Output leads of clock control element 116 are labelled 123 124, 125, respectively.The delayed clock and shifted clock therefore, are synchronized by the clock signal received on the clock wire and are used for synchronizing the supply of the data signals to the data wire and the further processing of the data. If the bits at the various positions in the register 102 have the value 1 , they have following res active indication and control functions IST the relevant station is or desires to function as the master station of the bus line. A O indicates the slave function. Prior to the realization of a communication operation, this bit can be set by the central control system of the microcomputer.The ultimate operation as the master station is codetermined by the content of the bit positions AL, AAS and AD . The information of this bit position is applied notably. to the clock control element 116 in order to form the previously described logic functions.TRX the relevant station is wishes to act as the data source transmitter . A 0 indicates the receiver function. This concerns the actual communication operation, i.e. not the arbitration where each participating station acts as master transmitter .BB the bus line is busy 0 means free PIN this signal is active when low. This indicates that the relevant station microcomputer must serve the bus either by reading a serially received data byte, or by serially transmitting the next data byte, or by generating a stop condition signal.ESO this is an enable bit for the serial in out communication operations. It is used exclusively for the initialization of the station and is set to the 1 state. The further elements of this initialization procedure will not be described herein. BC2, BC1, BC the three bits form a counter state which is filled from the bus 106 and further with the positive going edges of the shifted clock pulses described with reference to the clock control element 116. The data bits received are thus counted in order to activate a comparison element t56 to be described hereinafter at the correct instant that is to say, when all address bits to becompared have arrived in the correct position, this counter supplies the signal C7 . In the case of a communication operation, this signal indicates that a complete data byte has been transported. In that case a parallel operation as regards the register 126 must take place.The resetting of this counter is realized under the control of the start condition described with reference toFigures 3 and 4. The decoder for the count C7 is not shown.AL the relevant station has lost the test phase of the arbitration for the master station see Figure 6, at indication 214 and cannot perform the intended communication operation.AAS the relevant station is addressed by another master station as a slave station. AD the relevant station is addressed as a slave in a general mode general broadcast .LRB this bit represents either the last received bit of a data byte, or the acknowledge bit. Note that the acknowledge bits is the ninth bit. Because the data bytes are eight bits wide, the shift register will not accommodate such ninth bit. If only an eight bit transport is executed, this bit is identical to the least significant bit in element 126. Then only for the first byte transmitted this bit indicates the transport direction.Fig. 7 also shows a number of adaptation elements for the data wire. First of all, there is provided a shift register 126 which is coupled end around in a loop in series with the data control element 134 and which is parallel and bidirectionally connected to the internal bus line 106. The previously mentioned shifted clock pulses supplied by the clock control element act as shift pulses.The parallel filling of the register 126 is realized under the control of the signal WRS the parallel reading is realized under the control of a signal RIDS0, said signals being supplied by the central control system of the microcomputer. The data control element 134 also receives the signal ESO from the register 102. This signal controls the output stage line amplifier of the data control element 134 which is connected to the data wire3 If ESO is zero, the relevant station will continuously generate a high signal for the data wire. The data filter 136 corresponds to the clock filter 120 as regards construction and operation. The data control element 134 also comprises a switching device having two states. In one state, the signals on line 130 will be applied to line 138 via a coupling element and the station will act as a data transmitter to this end the signal MST must have the value 1 and, moreover, the stop condition STP see Figure 3 and also hereinafter may not be detected. The data originating from the element 136 is continuously i.e. also in the other state of said switching device supplied to the shift register 126 via line 132. This register receives the already mentioned shifted clock pulses as shift pulses. The bit TRX controls the direction of the actual data transport. If a master transmitter station loses an arbitration operation this bit TRX is reset to zero.The element 142 acts as a detector for the busy condition of the bus wire. To this end, it receives the out put signals of the elements 134 and 116, thus detecting the conditions in the blocks 60 and 62, respectively, inFigure 3. This detector may comprise two data flipflops which store the clock signal under the control of a negative going data edge and a positive going data edge, respectively so detecting the starting condition and the stop condition, respectively, provided that the clock signal is high . The output pulses of these two data flipflops act as a set reset signal for the bit BB. Each 1 output from a said flipflop resets the other. If the bit BB has the value 1, the microcomputer will detect that a waiting period must expire before an attempt may be made to become the master station.However, if the relevant station had already manifested itself as the master station, the operation continues unimpeded unless the arbitration is lost subsequently . Element 144 contains the logic for realizing the arbitration. The logic system comprises a logic gate which supplies the value 1 if both the signal on line 130 is a 1 and the signal on line 132 is O if the start condition is detected in element 142 and the bitMST has the value 1 . This is synchronized by the clock signal on the line 122. If the relevant gate indeed supplies a 1 , it controls the resetting of the bits MST andTRX if necessary and sets the bit AL to 1 . Due to the synchronization with the clock, the delay until the line 214 in Figure 6 occurs. The circuit also comprises an address register 128.This register is loaded with an address from the bus line 106 under the control of a 1 signal from AND gate 140 Loading takes place only during the initialization under the control of the signal WRSM which also acts as the load control signal for the register 126 and furthermore the signal ESON, being the inverse value of bit ESO from register 102 after the initialization, ESO has the value 1 . The register 128 serves for the storage of the address of the relevant station 7 bits . The least significant bit ALS acts if it has the value t1 n to stop the address comparison in the comparator 156 so that after each data byte received or transmitted an interrupt signal is generated.ALS indicates always selected . Element 156 is a 7 bit address comparator for the address number in the register 128 and the address received in the register 126 from data line 138. This comparison is activated only once per communication operation, that is to say only for the first byte received and synchronized by the counting signal C7 from the 3bit counter 3C2, BC1, BCO. If correspondence exists the element 150 bit AAS is set to 1 . If the general mode is applicable, element 152 bit AD is also set to 1 this is realized under the control of a specific address which acts in common for all stations, for example, the address 1111111 . Element 146 comprises interrupt control logic circuitry.If the bit ESO has the value 1 and if the bit ALS is 0 , this element supplies an interrupt request signal under the control of a correspondence signal from the comparator. A communication operation is performed as follows a station which wishes to initiate the communication operation first sets the bits MST, TRX and BB to 1 .Under the control thereof, the data control element directly generates the start condition of the data wire.All stations detecting this start code set the bit BB to 1 , so that they can no longer become the master. The mas ter station then generates an 8 bit data byte according to the procedure of Figure 4. This byte is applied to the data wire 138 via the bus 106 and the register 126. The ninth bit is controlled by one of the three bits not yet specified in the register 104 which can also be filled via the data bus 106. After the second start code, the arbitration procedure in accordance with Figure 6 commences. After completion of the arbitration, the relevant winning station will be the master transmitter and all other stations will be in the position of slave . As has already been stated, the start code sets a flipflop in the station.When this flipflop has been set and the relevant station has MST 0, the address comparison is enabled the shifted clock is formed again so that the bit counter B BC2 correctly continues counting. The signal C7 activates the address comparison. The addressed station then sets the bit AAS and is selected . Subsequently, the communication between the master station and the slave station stations may take place the bit TRX each time indicates the transport direction of the next data byte. Finally, the master station forms the stop code in that the signal according to Figure 3 is generated in its data control element. As a result, the bits PIN and BB are reset and, moreover, also the bits AAS and ADç in the slave station stations . A new master can then manifest itself.Fig. 8 in summary shows a diagram of a bidirectional data transport. First, the start condition STA is generated by the master s . Next, a seven bits slave station addressSLV ADD is generated, in this case the intended operation is a memory read access. Consequently, these seven bits constitute the memory chip address. The eight bit indicates the READ WRITE operation, which has value zero. The ninth bit is the acknowledge bit. In the next eight bits a pointer or a data byte may be transferred DAT POINT in this case this is the memory location address. Thus, a 256 byte memory may be addressed a larger memory would thus need a sequence of two or more address bytes . The memory location address is followed by an acknowledge bit A . Next, a transition from writing to reading takes place. This is executed by generating a new start condition, slave address plus a READ 7 RITE bit at value 1. Next come an acknowledge bit, n data DAT bytes each accompanied by its acknowledge bit here n l , terminated by the stop condition STO .