# An improved process for the preparation of certain cyclopropane pyrethroid intermediates having a high cis content.

## Abstract
High cis 3 2,2 di chloro or bromo 3,3,3 trifluoro propyl or 3 2,2,2 tri chloro or bromo ethyl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane 1 carboxylates are obtained by reac tion of the corresponding 3,3 dimethyl 4 halogenoheptanoate or hexanoate with an alkali metal tert. alkoxide in a nitrile, a pyridine, an ester or a morpholine as solvent.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for the preparation of a compound of formula v EMI12.1 wherein Q is lower alkyl, 3 phenoxybenzyl, a cyano 3phenoxybenzyl or a ethynyl 3 phenoxyben zyl, hal is chlorine or bromine, and each of X and Y is chlorine or bromine, or one of X and Y is chlorine or bromine and the other is a group of the formula CF2 mW in which W is hydrogen, chlorine or fluorine and m is 1 or 2, which comprises treating a compound of formula II EMI12.2 wherein hal, Q, X and Y have the meanings stated above, with an alkali metal tert.alkoxide at a tezperature below about 3000 and in the presence of a solvent which is substantially inert towards the reactants and which gives a stirrable reaction mixture at the reaction temperature, the solvent being selected from nitriles, pyridines, esters and morpholines. 2. A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein the alkali metal tert.alkoxide contains from 4 to 6 carbon atoms. 3. A process as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the amount of alkali metal tert.alkoxide used is from. 1.0 to 3.0 mols per mol of the compound of formula II . 4. A process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein the solvent is such tl t the alkali metal tert. alkoxide is at least partially in solution. 5. A process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein the solvent has a boiling point at atmospheri.c pressure not exceeding 1500C. 6. A process as claimed in any one of claims to 5 wherein the nitrile solvent is a secondary or tertiary nitrile. 7. A process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein the ester solvent is the ester of a tertiary aliphatic alcohol. 8. A process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 7 wherein the reaction temperature does not exceed OOC. 9. A process as clained in claim 8 wherein the reaction temperature is 10 C.

## Description
This invention relates to an improved process for the preparation of high cis 3 2,2 di chloro or bromo 3,3,3 triflu oropropyl or 3 2,2,2 tri chloro or bromo ethyl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane 1 carboxylates which are valuable intermediates in the synthesis of pyrethroid insecticides. Published European Patent Specification No.0003683 discloses a process whereby a compound of the formula EMI1.1 wherein R is defined as below, is treated with an alkali metal tert alkoxide, preferably having 4 to 6 carbon atoms, at a temperature of about 8O to about 30 C in the presence of a solvent system comprising a a solvent selected from 1 an aliphatic hydrocarbon of 5 to 8 carbon atoms, 2 an aromatic unsubstituted hydrocarbon having 6 ring carbon atoms, or substituted with 7 to 3 substituents selected fran alkyl of 7 or 2 carbon atoms and chlorine, 3 a tertiary alcohol of 4 to 6 carbon atoms, 4 an ether selected from diethyl ether, 1,2 dimethoxyethane, 2 methoxyethyl ether, tetrahydrofuran, and dioxane, and 5 a mixture of any of these solvents, and b a dipolar aprotic cosolvent selected from 1 hexamethylphosphoramide, 2 dimethylformamide, 3 dimethylacetamide, 4 dimethylsulfoxide, and 5 N methylpyrrolidone, the ratio of solvent to cosolvent being from about 20 1 to about 2 1 by volume, to give a high cis compound of formula Z EMI2.1 wherein R is defined as below. Treatment of high cis compound Z with base produces a high cis compound of formula C .EMI2.2 wherein R is defined as below. In the above formulae, R is inter alia lower alkyl, 3 phenoxyben zyl, a cyano 3 phenoxybenzyl or 5 benzyl 3furylmethyl. Throughout this apecification the term lower alkyl means an alkyl group containing from 1 to 4 carbon atoms. The high cis compounds of formula C above wherein R is, for example, 3 phenoxybenzyl, for which the compounds of formula Z are intermediates, are highly active insecticides. It is well known that cis pyrethroids are generally more toxic to insects than are the corresponding trans compounds. M.Elliott, Ed., Synthetic Pyrethroids,ACS Symposium Series, No.42, American Chemical Society,Washington D.C., 1977, p.53 . The examples illustrating the invention disclosed in published European Patent Specification No.0003683 show the preparation of compounds of formula Z in which the cis trans ratio varies from 53 47 to 81 19. Whilst this prior art process is therefore effective in providing compounds of formula Z predominantly in their cis isomer form, the use such a mixed solvent system gives rise to difficulties in solvent recovery and recycle, and effluent disposal, in large scale operation. It is therefore desirable to prepare compounds of formula Z from compounds of formula B by means of a process which reduces and preferably eliminates these difficulties without sacrificing the high cis characteristics of the known method.The present invention provides such a process. According to the present invention there is provided a process for the preparation of a compound of formula I EMI3.1 wherein Q is lower alkyl, 3 phenoxybenzyl, a cyano 3phenoxybenzyl or a ethynyl 3 phenoxybenzyl, hal is chlorine or bromine, and each of X and Y is chlorine or bromine, or one of X and Y is chlorine or bromine and the other is a group of the formula CF W in which W is hydrogen, chlorine or fluorine 2m and m is 1 or 2, which comprises treating a compound ofEMI3.2 tb formula SEP II SEP hal tb formula SEP 11 SEP j tb SEP CR SEP CR SEP SEP CH2 SEP SEP C hal X.Y tb SEP 3 SEP C SEP Uz SEP II tb SEP CR SEP COOQ tb SEP 3 SEP 2 tb wherein hal, Q, X and Y have the meanings stated above, with an alkali metal tert alkoxide preferably containing from 4 to 6 carbon atoms at a temperature below about 30 C and in the presence of a solvent which is substantially inert towards the reactants and which gives a stirrable reaction mixture at the reaction temperature, the solvent being selected from nitriles, pyridines, esters and morpholines. Examples of the alkali metal tert alkoxides which may be used are sodium or potassium tert.butoxide or tert.pentyloxide. The amount of alkali metal tert alkoxide which is used may be from 1.0 to 3.0 mol.per mol. of the compound of fprmula II . In addition to the requirements specified above, the solvent should also preferably be such that the alkali metal tert alkoxide is at least partially in solution,although phase transfer techniques may be employed if desired. Total dissolution of the alkoxide is not essential. The solvent should preferably have a boiling point at atmospheric pressure not exceeding 1500C, since such solvents are easily removable from the reaction system, for example, by distillation under normal or moderately reduced pressure. The nitrile solvents which may be used in the process may be of the aliphatic or aromatic series, and examples of suitable nitriies are acetonitrile, propionitrile, isobutyronitrile, benzonitrile and o ,.m and tolunitrile. Secondary and tertiary nitriles are preferred because primary nit riles may give rise to undesirable by products in the presence of the strongly basic alkali metal tert.alkoxide. Examples of the pyridines which may be used are pyridine itself, substituted pyridines such as the isomeric methylpyridines picolines and fused pyridines such as quinoline. The esters which may be used as solvents are preferably such that the alcohols from which they are derived are not of lower pKa value than the alcohol from which the alkali metal tert alkoxide is derived, so that any ester interchange which may occur between the ester and the alkali metal tert alkoxide will not result in in situ generation of an alkoxide which is a weaker base than the latter. For this reason esters of tertiary aliphatic alcohols are preferred, examples of such esters being tert.butyl acetate, tert.pentyl acetate, tert.butyl propionate and tert pentyl propionate. The morpholines which may be used as solvents inclucc morpholine itself and, for example, simple substituted derivatives such as 2 or alkyl or aryl morpholines. The amount of solvent which is used is not critical, but must be sufficient to give an easily stirrable reaction mixture. It is preferred that the reaction temperature does not exceed 25 C, and further preferred that it does not exceed O C. Reaction is conveniently carried out at 10vC, a temperature which is readily attainable under large scale manufacturing conditions without resort to special refrigeration units. In general, the process of the invention may be carried out by adding the compound of formula II to a mixture of the solvent and the alkali metal tert alkoxide, with stirring and under an atmosphere of dry nitrogen, whilst maintaining the desired reaction temperature. The progress of the reaction is easily monitored by GLC analysis of the reaction mixture. When all of the compound of formula II has been consumed, the mixture may conveniently be distilled to leave a mixture of crude product plus salt. The reaction product of formula I may be isolated by solvent extraction or by simple precipitation with water. It may then be purified by conventional means, for example, distillation, steam distillation or recrystallisation.Alternatively, the product may be used in the crude form for the preparation of the pyrethroid acid of formula III EMI6.1 wherein X and Y have the previously defined meanings, by, for example, heating the crude compound of formula I with aqueous alcoholic sodium hydroxide, removal of the alcohol, e.g.by distillation, and acidification to give crude III .The latter typically has a cis trans ratio of 85 90 15 10. Pecrystallisation of the crude acid readily enhances the cis content. For example, recrystallisation from toluene will generally give a product containing 95 10CX of the desired cis isomer. The initial part of the process may also be carried out by adding a solution or slurry of the alkali metal tert alkoxide in the solvent to the compound of formula II , or by adding the neat alkali metal tert alkoxide to a solution of the compound of formula II in the solvent, the reaction then being carried out as before. The invention is illustrated by the followingExamples in which percentages are by weight. Example 1 Potassium tert butoxide 15.25 g was added to pyridine 175 ml with stirring, under an atmosphere of dry nitrogen, and cooled to 100C. Methyl 3,3 dimethyl 4,6,6 trichloro 7,7,7 trifluoroheptanoate 36.6 g was then added slowly, with vigorous stirring, whilst maintaining the temperature of the reaction mass at 10 to 12 C. The reaction was monitored by following the disappearance of the heptanoate by glc 5 , 5 ov 17 column operated at 1400C . When all the heptanoate had been added, further aliquots of potassium tert butoxide were added until it was all consumed. The reaction mixture was then drowned into a large volume of water, extracted with toluene, and the organic extract washed with dilute hydrochloric acid and evaporated under reduced pressure. The resulting crude ethyl 3 C2 ,2 dichloro 3 ,3 ,3 trifluoroprop 1 yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate was added to a solution of sodium hydroxide 11.2 g in a mixture of water 16 ml and ethanol 160 ml and heated at reflux for 67 hours. At the end of the reflux period the bulk of the ethanol was distilled off the reaction mixture. The mixture was diluted with water, extracted with dichloromethane to remove neutral impurities, and.acidified with concentrated hydrochloric acid.The resulting 3 2 chloro 3 ,3 ,3 trifluoroprop 1 enyl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate was extracted into dichloromethane, dried anhydrous sodium sulphate and evaporated to afford 24.2 g of product containing the cis Z, cis E, trans Z and trans E isomers in the ratios 80 3 10 7 by H nmr analysis glc analysis showed the strength of the cis Z isomer to be 56 , wt wt of the product. cis trans refers to the geometry of the cyclopropane ring, z E refers to the geometry of the propenyl side chain. Example 2 Methyl 3,3 dimethyl 4,6,6 trichloro 7,7,7 trifluoroheptanoate 36.6 g in pyridine Cioo ml was stirred under an atmosphere of dry nitrogen and cooled to 10 C. Potassium tert butoxide 15.25 g in further pyridine 200 ml was then added slowly with vigorous stirring whilst maintaining the temperature at 10 to 12eC the reaction was monitored as in Example 1 and further aliquots of butoxide added until all the heptanoate had reacted.The reaction mixture was then worked up and treated with aqueous ethanolic sodium hydroxide solution as in Example 1 to afford 24.4 g of product containing the cis X, cis E, trans s and trans E isomers in the ratios 72 6 15 7 Hnmr analysis . Recrystallisation from hexane afforded 12.2 g of material containing 95 wt wt of the cis Z isomer.Example 3 The method of Example 2 was repeated except that the solvent was acetonitrile and the hydrochloric acid wash was omitted from the work up procedure. Using a hydrolysis time of 41.5 hours, crude 3 2 chloro 3 ,3 ,3 trifluoroprop 1 enyl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate 21.8 g was obtained having the cis Z, cis E and trans E S isomers in the ratios 59 13 28 and containing 46.6 wt wt of the cis s isomer.Example 4 The method of Example 1 was repeated except that the solvent was acetonitrile and the hydrochloric acid wash was omitted from the work up procedure. Using a hydrolysis time of 69 hours crude carboxylic acid 21.0 g was obtained having the cis X, cis E, trans s and trans E isomers in the ratios 78 3.5 11.5 7 and containing 61.8 wt wt of the cis z isomer. Further examples of the invention are given in the following table. EMI10.1 SEP Period SEP of tb SEP reflux SEP with SEP c tb a SEP b SEP Method SEP aqueous SEP Isomer SEP Ratios tb Ex. SEP Substrate SEP Scale SEP Solvent SEP as SEP in SEP ethanolic tb SEP g. SEP Example SEP NaOH SEP Cis SEP Z SEP Cis SEP E SEP Trans SEP Z SEP Trans SEP E tb SEP hours tb SEP 5 SEP M SEP 6.6 SEP Pyridine SEP 1 SEP 48 SEP 82.5 SEP 4 SEP 7.5 SEP 6 tb SEP 6 SEP M SEP 6.6 SEP Acetonitrile SEP 4 SEP 48 SEP 82 SEP 6 SEP E Z SEP 12 tb SEP 7 SEP M SEP 3.3 SEP Morpholine SEP 1 SEP 48 SEP 71 SEP 8 SEP E Z SEP 21 tb SEP 8 SEP M SEP 6.6 SEP 4 Picoline SEP 1 SEP 48 SEP 84 SEP 9 SEP E Z SEP 7 tb SEP 9 SEP E SEP 6.6 SEP iso butyronitrile SEP 4 SEP 48 SEP 84 SEP 8 SEP E Z SEP 8 tb 10 SEP E SEP 6.6 SEP Benzonitrile SEP 4 SEP 40 SEP 82 SEP 9 SEP E Z SEP 10 tb 11 SEP E SEP 6.6 SEP Propionitrile SEP 4 SEP 67 SEP 88 SEP 6 SEP E Z SEP 6 tb 12 SEP E SEP 6.6 SEP tert butylacetate SEP 4 SEP 45 SEP 80 SEP 10 SEP E Z SEP 10 tb 13 SEP E SEP 6.6 SEP Quinoline SEP 1 SEP 45.5 SEP 75 SEP 11 SEP 4 SEP 10 tb 14 SEP E SEP 38.2 SEP iso butyronitrile SEP 4 SEP 48 SEP E Z SEP 89 SEP E Z SEP 11 tb 15 SEP E SEP 38.2 SEP Propionitrile SEP 4 SEP 40.5 SEP 86 SEP 6.5 SEP 2.5 SEP 5 tb a M methyl 3,3 dimethyl 4,6,6 trichloro 7,7,7 trifluoroheptanoate E ethyl 3,3 dimethyl 4,6,6 trichloro 7,7,7 trifluoroheptanoate. b amount of substrate used in the reaction. c Rnmr analysis of the proportions of the four isomers of 3 2m chloro 3 ,3 ,3 trifluoroprop 1 enyl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate in the crude product i.e. before any recrystallisation obtained after treating the crude ethyl or methyl 3 2 ,2 dichloro 3 ,3 ,3 trifluoroprop 1 yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate first with aqueous ethanolic sodium hydroxide and then with acid.