# Polymeric stabilizer, stable dispersions prepared therefrom and paint compositions comprising such dispersions.

## Abstract
A stabilizer capable of forming a stable dispersion in an organic liquid includes a copolymer bearing pendent ethyle nic unsaturation which comprises the reaction product of ethylenically unsaturated monomers A and copolymer reactant B , said ethylenically unsaturated monomers A bearing functionality capable of condensation reaction with complementary functionality of said copolymer reactant B which comprises a random copolymer of i from about 20 to about 45 weight percent of ethylenically unsaturated monomers, homopolymers of which would be substantially insoluble in a selected organic liquid ii from about 40 to about 75 weight percent of ethylenically unsaturated monomers, homopolymers of which would be substantially soluble in said organic liquid and iii from about 2 to about 15 weight percent of ethylenically unsaturated monomers bearing said complementary func tionality capable of condensation reaction with said ethyle nically unsaturated monomers A , said ethylenically unsatu rated monomers A being reacted with said copolymer reactant B in an amount sufficient to react with at least about 10 percent of said complementary functionality of said copolymer reactant B . The stable dispersions may be incorporated in coating compositions comprising I an hydroxy film forming component, II a crosslinking agent bearing functionality capable of reacting with the hydroxy groups of the film forming component, and III a flow control additive of which the dispersion forms part.

## Claims
CLAIMS. 1. A copolymer comprising the reaction product of ethylenically unsaturated monomers A and copolymer reactant 3 , said ethylenically unsaturated monomers A bearing functionality capable of condensation reaction with complementary functionality of said copolymer reactant B which comprises a random copolymer of i from about 20 to about 45 weight percent of ethylenically unsaturated monomers, homopolymers of Which would be substantially insoluble in a selected organic liquid ii from about 40 to about 75 weight percent of ethylenically unsaturated monomers, homopolymers of which would be substantially soluble in said organic liquid and iii from about 2 to about 15 weight percent of ethylenically unsaturated monomers bearing said complementary functionality capable of condensation reaction with said ethylenically unsaturated monomers A , ssid ethylenically unsaturated monomers A being reacted with said copolymer reactant B in an amount sufficient to react with at least about 10 percent of said complementary functionality of said copolymer reactant B . 2. A copolymer in accordance with claim 1 wherein one of said ethylenically unsaturated monomers i or ii comprises an ester of a C4 C18 aliphatic alcohol and acrylic, methacrylic or ethacrylic acid, and the of said ethylenically unsaturated monomers i or ii comprises an acrylic monomer selected from a esters ofC1 C3 aliphatic alcohols and acrylic, methacrylic or ethacrylic acids, b acrylic and methacrylic acids, and c ethylene and propylene glycol monesters of acrylic, methacrylic or ethacrylic acids. 3. A copolymer in accordance with claim 2 wherein said ethylenically unsaturated monomer i is methylmethacrylate, and said ethylenically unsaturated monomer ii is 2 ethylheiy,lacry late. 4. A copolymer in accordance with claim 3 wherein one of said ethylenically unsaturated monomers A or iii is glycidyl acrylate or glycidyl methacrylate and the other of said ethylenically unsaturated monomers A or iii is acrylic or methacrylic acid. 5. A copolymer in accordance with any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein at least a portion of said ethylenically unsaturated monomers i , ii and iii used in preparation of said copolymer reactant B and at least a portion of said ethylenically unsaturated monomers A which are reacted with said copolymer reactant B to form said polymeric dispersion stabilizer, comprise acrylic monomers. 6. A dispersion comprising an organic liquid, dispersed particles of an addition polymer which are insoluble in said organic liquid, and a polymeric dispersion stabilizer comprising a copolymer according to any one of the preceding claims. 7. A dispersion in accordance with claim 6 wherein said dispersed particles comprise microgel particles, formed by addition polymerization of a from about 1 to about 10 mole percent each of first and second ethylenically unsaturated monomers bearing functionality capable of crosslinking reaction with the other and b from about 98 to about 80 mole percent of at least one other ethylenically unsaturated monomer in the presence of the said organic liquid, which is a solvent for the polymerisable monomers but a non solvent for the resulting addition polymer. 8. A dispersion in accordance with claim 7 wherein the functionalities of the said first and second ethylenically unsaturated monomers respectively are i acid and epotide ii epoxide and amine iii acid anhydride and hydroxyl iv acid anhydride and amine v acid anhydride and mercaptan vi isocyanate and hydroxyl vii hemiformal and amide vii carbonate and amine ix cycloimide and amine x cycloimide and hydroxyl or zi imine and alkoxysilane. 9. A dispersion in accordance with claim 8 wherein said addition polymer is formed from about 1 to about 10 mole percent of alpha, beta ethylenically unsaturated monocarboxylic acid, from about 98 to about 90 mole percent of at least one other copolymerizable monoethylenically unsaturated monomer and from about 1 to about 10 mole percent of ethylenically unsaturated crosslinking monoepoxide monomers. 10. A dispersion in accordance with claim 9 wherein the addition polymer is formed from methymethacrylate and gylcidylmethacrylate. 11. A dispersion in accordance with any one of claims 7 to 10 wherein the organic liquid and the ethylenically unsaturated monomers i and ii of the said copolymer are selected such that homopolymers of the said monomers i and ii would be either substantially soluble or substantially insoluble in said organic liquid as a result of relative polarities of said homopolymers and said organic liquid. 12. A dispersion in accordance with any one of claims to to 11 which comprises, as a further stabilizer, butylated melamine formaldehyde resin having a number average molecular weight Rn in the range of from about 700 to about 2,500, said further stabilizer being included in said crosslinked dispersion in an amount ranging from about 15 to about 75 parts of resin solids per 100 parts total resin solids in said crosslinked dispersion. 13. A dispersion in accordance with any one of claims 6 to 12 wherein the organic liquid comprises an aliphatic hydrocarbon. 14. A coating composition comprising I an hydroxy functional filmforming component, II a crosslinking agent bearing functionality capable of reacting with the hydroxyl groups of the film forming component, and III a flow control additive comprising a dispersion in accordance with any one of claims 6 to 13. 15. A coating composition according to claim 14 wherein the film forming component I comprises an hydroxy functional copolymer having a number average molecular weight n of from greater than about 150 up to about 20,000 and a glass transition temperature T ranging from g between about 250C and about 700C, said copolymer being formed from about 5 to about 50 weight percent of hydroxy functional monoethylenically unsaturated monomers and between about 95 and about 50 weight percent of other monoethylenically unsaturated monomers and the crosslinking agent II comprises an amino or isocyanate compound. 16. A coating composition according to claim 14 or claim 15 wherein the flow control additive III is present in an amount of from about 0.5 to about 30 parts of resin solids in said flow control additive per 100 parts total resin solids in said composition. 17. A coating composition in accordance with claim 15 or claim 16 wherein said hydroxy functional monoethylenically unsaturated monomers from which said hydroxy functional copolymer of the film forming component I is prepared are selected from hydroxy bearing aliphatic alcohol esters of alpha, beta monoethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acids. 18. A coating composition in accordance with any one of claims 15 to 17 wherein said other monoethylenically unsaturated monomers from which the hydroxy functional copolymer of the film forming component I is prepared are selected from acrylates, methacrylates, monovinyl hydrocarbons having between 8 and 12 carbon atoms and other vinyl monomers. 19. A coating composition in accordance with claim 18 wherein said other monoethylenically unsaturated monomers from which the hydroxyfunctional copolymer of the film forming component I is prepared also include alpha , beta monoethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acids. 20. A coating composition in accordance with any one of claims 15 to 19 wherein said hydroxy functional copolymer of said film forming component I has a number average molecular weight i of greater than about 5,000 and said crosslinking agent comprises between about 20 about 100 parts per 100 parts of said film forming component of butylated melamine formaldehyde having a average molecular weight Xn of between about 700 and about 2,500. 21. A coating composition in accordance with claim 20 wherein a said hydroxy functional copolymer is formed from about 10 to about 30 weight percent of hydroxyl bearing aliphatic alcohol esters of acrylic and methacrylic acids and a remainder of other monoethylenically unsaturated monomers, including up to 2 weight percent based on the total weight percent of monomers used to form said copolymer of acrylic or methacrylic acid, said remainder, other than said acrylic or methacrylic acids, being selected from the group consisting of acrylates, methacrylates, monovinyl hydrocarbons having between 8 and 12 carbons atoms and other modifying vinyl monomers and b said butylates melamine coraslinkirg agent comprises the reaction product of butyl alcohol, melamine and formaldehyde. 22. A coating composition in accordance with claim 20 or claim 21 wherein said film forming of component I comprises from about 50 to about 90 wegiht percent of said hydroxy functional copolymer having, a number average molecular weight CMn of from greater than about 5,000 and from about 10 to about 50 weight percent of at least one hydroxy functional copolymer having a number average molecular weight Mn of between about 1,500 and about 5,000 a glass transition temperature T6 of between about 25 C and about 70 C, said hydroxy functional copolymers being formed from about 15 to about 35 weight percent of hydroxy functional monoethylenically unsaturated monomers,, and a remainder of other monoethylenically unsaturated monomers. 23. A coating composition in accordance with any one of claims 15 to 19 wherein said film forming component I comprises a polymeric component having a number average molecular weight of or less than about 5,000, said polymeric component comprising at least about 50 percent by weight of hydroxy functional copolymer having a number average molecular weight Mn of from about 1,500 to about 5,000 and a glass transition temperature Tg of between g about 25 C and about 70 C, said hydroxy functional copolymer being formed from about 15 to about 35sleight percent of hydroxy functional monoethylenically unsaturated monomers, from about 2 to about 5 weight percent of alpha, beta olefinically unsaturated carboxylic acids and a remainer of other monoethylenically unsaturated monomers, and said crosslinking agent 11 comprises from about 20 to about 100 parts per 100 parts of said film forming component I of monomeric methylated melamine resin having a number average molecular wegiht Mn of from about 350 to about 1000 24. h coating composition in accordance with claim 23 wherein said alphas, beta olefinically unsaturated carboxylic acids employed in the formation of said hydroxy functional copolyem are employed in amounts ranging from about 2 to about 4 weight percent. 25. A coating composition in accordance with claim 22 or claim 24 wherein said hydroxy functional copolymer has a number average molecular weight aMn in the range of from about 2,300 to about 3,600 and is formed from between about 20 and about 30 weight percent of said hydroxy functional monoethylenically unsaturated monomers. 26. A coating composition in accordance with any one of claims 23 to 25 wherein said crosslinkìng agent II includes up to about 30 weight percent based on the total of said crosslinking agent of a butylated melamine formaldehyde crosslinking agent having a number average molecular weight Mn of between about 700 and about 2,500. 27. A coating composition in accordance with claim 23 wherein a said hydroxy functional copolymer is formed from about 20 to about 30 weight percent of hydroxyl bearing aliphatic alcohol esters of acrylic and methacrylic acids, between about 2 and about 4 weight percent of acrylic or methacrylic acid and a remainer of otber monoethylenically unsaturated monomers selected from the group consisting of acrylates, methacrylatee, monovinyl hydrocarbons having between 8 and 12 carbon atoms, and other modifying vinyl monomers and b said crosslinking agent comprises monomerio methylated melamine resin having a number average molecular weight Rn of between about 350 and about 1,000 and up to 30 weight percent based on the weight of said crosslinking agent of butylated melamine formaldehyde crosslinking agent having a number average molecular weight lln of between about 700 and about 2,500.

## Description
DESCRIPTION. This invention relates to copolymers adapted for use as polymeric stabilizers in stable dispersions, and dispersions made therewith, and coating compositions incorporating such dispersions. Because of increasingly strict solvent emission regulations in recent years, low solvent emission paints have become desirable.A number of intermediate and high solids paint compositions have been proposed to meet these low solvent emission requirements. However, many of these compositions are deficient because of difficulty in application, poor flow out, lack of smoothness and evenness and poor distribution of pigment, particularly metallic flake pigments the deficiency in compositions including metallic flake results from undesired reorientation of the metallic flake during application and curing of the coating. Flake reorientation results primarily because of the very low viscosity resins used in paint compositions to accommodate intermediate and high solids. The viscosity of these resins is not sufficient to immobilize the flakes which tend to redistribute themselves to show reverse flop and non uniform distribution. Stable dispersions of the type to which the invention relates, or nonaqueous dispersions as they are typically called, have been developed in recent years in attempts to improve the efficiency of applying protective or decorative coatings to a variety of objects and have been particularly widely used in the coating of motor vehicle bodies and vehicle components. Those skilled in the art will be aware of numerous prior art references relating to nonaqueous dispersion technology. Among the more pertinent prior art references, insofar as this invention is concerned, are those which have taught various improved stabilizers and methods of making the same. These include U.S. Patents 3,317,633 to Osmond et al, 3,514,500 to Osmond et al, 3,607,821 to Clarke, 3,814,720 to Maker et al, 3,814,721 to Maker et al and 4,147,688 to Makhlouf et al. U.S. Patent 3,317,635 to Osmond et al teachss stabilized dispersions or nonaqueous dispersions stabilized by block or graft copolymers of ethylenically unsaturated monomers with a precursor containing a polymeric chain and an unsaturated group with which the monomer polymerizes in vinyl type manner to produce a polymeric vinyl chain of a different degree of polarity from the original polymeric chain Col.2, lines 1 9 . Stable dispersions of synthetic monomers in organic liquids may be made in accordance with Osmond et al by precipitating the polymer in the organic liquid in the presence of the stabilizer such that one polymeric chain is solvated by the organic . liquid and another is non solvated and consequently becomes associated with the non solvfited polymer Col. 2, lines 50 56 . U.S. Patent 3,514,500 to Osmond et al teaches a stabilizer for nonaqueous dispersions, which stabilizer comprises a polymeric backbone and attached thereto at least five side chains of different polarity than the backbone See abstract . The side chains are attached to the backbone by a condensation reaction between side chains containing only one reactive group per molecule and a backbone containing at least five complementary reactive groups per molecule Col. 1, line 71 Col. 2, line 1 . U.S. Patent 3,607,821 to Clarke teaches a stabilizer for nonaqueous dispersions wherein the stabilizer is chemically reacted with dispersed particles of the dispersion Col. 1, lines 36 42 . Each co reacted stabilizer molecule forms from 1 to 10 preferably 1 to 4 covalent links with the dispersed polymer Col. 1, lines 50 52 . The covalent links between the stabilizer and the dispersed polymer are formed by reaction between chemical groups provided by the stabilizer and complementary chemical groups provided by the dispersed polymer or by copolymerization reaction Col. 1, lines 63 67 . U.S. Patent 3,814,720 to Maker et al and assigned to Ford Motor Company, the assignee of this application, teaches nonaqueous dispersions which employ a methylolated addition copolymer of an ethenic inonomer and an amide of an unsaturated acid see abstract and claims . U.S. Patent 3,814,721, also to Maker et al and also assigned to Ford Motor Company, teaches nonaqueous dispersions which are prepared employing a precursor addition copolymer which is prepared by reacting an active ethenic monomer having a functional epoxy, hydroxy, cyanato, or carboxy group with another active ethenic monomer free of functional groups in an aromatic or alcoholic solvent, followed by addition of an aliphatic liquid in which the polymer is insoluble, followed still further by the addition of a third ethenic monomer having one of such functional groups and a forth ethenic monomer free of such functional groups, such that the aliphatic liquid is a non solvent for the second addition copolymer which is dispersed throughout the medium see abstract, examples and claims . Stable crosslinked dispersions containing microgel particles are well known in the art. U.S. Patent 4,147,688 to Makhlouf et al teaches such crosslinked dispersions wherein crosslinked acrylic polymer microgel particles are formed by free radical addition polymerization of alpha, beta ethylenically unsaturated .monocarboxylic acid, at least one other copolymerizable monoethylenically unsaturated monomer and a certain percentage of crosslinking monomer, in the presence of a hydrocarbon dispersing liquid see abstract, examples and claims . Other crosslinked dispersions containing microgel particles are disclosed in the patent applications and patents referred to in the Makhlouf et al disclosure. Coating compositions of the type disclosed and claimed i.n this application, except for the addition of the stable crosslinked dispersion flow control additive, were developed by coworkers of the inventor of the subject invention prior to the invention described and claimed herein. Those compositions were prepared both with and without flow control additives. However, the preferable compositions were those prepared using a flow control additive which was made generally in accordance with the teaching of U.S. Patent 4,147,688 to Makhlouf et al. U.S. Patent 4,025,474 to Porter et al discloses a polyester based coating compositon which includes the crosslinked dispersions disclosed by Mahklouf et al. U.S. Patent 4,074,141 to Porter et al disclose carboxylic acid amide interpolymer based coating compositions including the same crosslinked dispersions. U.S. Patent 4,115,472 also to Porter et al, discloses urethane coating compositions also including the crosglinked dispersion. of Xahklouf et al. U.S. Patent 42055,607 to Sullivan et al discloses thermosetting compositions of a solution acrylic polymer, b at least 0. ss of microgel particles formed by polymerizing hydroxy bearing monomers with nonhydroxyl bearing monomers in the presence of thed stabilizer disclosed by Xahklouf et al, and o melamine resin.The microgel dispersion of Sullivan et 51 thus contains functionality capable of reacting with the melamine crosslinking agent. According to the present invention, there is provided a copolymer comprising the reaction product of ethylenically ungaturated monomers A and copolymer reactant B , said ethylenically unsaturated monomers A bearing functionality capable of condensation reaction with complementary functionality of said copolymer reactant B which comprises a randon copolymer of i from about 20 to about 45 weight percent of ethylenically nnsaturated monomers, homopolymers of which would be substantially insoluble in a selected organic liquid ii from about 40 to about 75 weight percent of ethylenically unsaturated monomers, homopolymers of which would be substantially soluble in said organic liquid and iii from about 2 to about 15 weight percent of ethylenioally unsaturated monomers bearing said complementary functionality capable of condensation reaction with said ethylenically unsaturated monomers A , said Ohylenically unsaturated monomers A being reacted with said copolymer reactant B in an amount sufficient to react with at least about 10 percent of said complementary functionality of said copolymer reactant B . The invention also provides a dispersion comprising an organic liquid, dispersed particle. of an addition polymer which are insoluble in the organic liquid, and a polymeric dispersion stabilizer comprising a copolymer in accordance with the invention. The invention also providee a coating composition comprising I an hydroxy functional film forming component, 11 a cross linking agent bearing functionality capable of reacting with the hydroxy groups .of the film forming component, and III a flow control additive comprising a dispersion in accordance with the invention. Xore specifically, the preferred copolymers of the invention are useful as stabilizers in a stable dispersion in organic liquids.The copolymers bear pendent ethylenic unsaturation and comprise the reaction product of ethylenically unsaturated monomers A and copolymer reactant B . The ethylenically unsaturated monomers A bear functionality capable of condensation reaction with complementary functionality of copolymer reactant B . Copolymer reactant B comprises a random copolymer of ethylenically unsaturated monomers, homopolymers of which would be substantially insoluble in a selected organic liquid, othylenically unsaturated monomers homopolymers of which would be substantially soluble in the same organic liquid, and ethylenically unsaturated monomers bearing complementary functionality capable of condensation reaction with ethylenically unsaturated monomers A .Ethylenically unsaturated monomers A are reacted with copolymer reactant B in an amount sufficient to react at least about 10 percent of the complementary functionality of the copolymer. The stable crosslinked dispersions containing microgel particles as prepared in accordance with this invention are formed in the manner described in U.S.Patent 4,147,688 to Makhlouf et al, by addition .polymeri7ation of a first and second ethylenically unsaturated monomers each bearing functionality capable of crosslinking reaction with the other and b at least one other inonoethylenically unsaturated monomer, in the presence of I organic liquid which is a solvent for the polymerizable monomers, but a non solvent for the resultant polymer, and 11 the polymeric dispersion stabilizer briefly described above. In accordance with the invention, the cross linked dispersion is prepared by carrying out the addition polymerization at an elevated temperature such that the dispersion polymer is first formed and then crosslinked. This invention also relates to coating compositions of the type comprising hydroxy functional film formers and a crosslinking agent bearing functionality capable of reacting with the hydroxyl groups of the film former. The improvement of the compositions of the invention comprises including in the composition a flow control additive which comprises the aforementioned stable, crosslinked dispersion containing microgel particles. The additive is included in an amount ranging from about 0.5 to about 30, preferably about 3 to about 15, parts of resin solids in the flow control additve per 100 parts of total resin solids in the composition. Further improvement of the invention comprises including in the crosslinked dispersion whether employed alone or as a flow control additive in a coating composition as described above, a further stabilizer which, except for solvents, consists essentially of a butylated melamine formaldehyde resin having a number average molecular weight Mn in the range from about 700 to about 2,500. I liT s further stabilizer is included in the crosslinked dispersion in an amount ranging from about 25 to about 75 parts of resin solids per 10b parts total resin solids in a crosslinked dispersion. The preferred improved intermediate solids coating compositions of the invention comprise I a film forming component comprising hydroxy functional copolymer II butylated melamine formaldehyde crosslinking agent and III the above flow control additive with or without further stabilization. The film forming component comprises hydroxy functional copolymer having a number average molecular weight Mn Of greater than about 5,000 and a glass transition temperature of between about 250C and about 300C the hydroxy functional copolymer being formed frÏm about 5 to about 50 weight percent of hydroxy functional monoethylenically unsaturated monomers and a remainder of other monoethylenically unsaturated monomers. The butylated melamine formaldehyde crosslinking agent has a number average molecular weight of between about 700 and about 2,500 and is included in the composition in an amount ranging from about 20 to about 100 parts per 100 parts of the film forming component. The flow control additive is included in an amount ranging from about .5 to about 30, preferably from about 3 to about 15 parts of resin solids in the flow control additive per 100 parts of total resin solids in the composition. The improved high solids coating compositions of the invention comprise I a film forming component consisting essentially of a polymeric component having a molecular weight of less than about 5,000 11 a crosslinking agent comprising monomeric methlated melamine resin and III the above flow control additive with or with further stabilization. The film forming component consists essentially of a polymeric component having a number average molecular weight of less than about 5,000, said polymeric component comprising at least about 50 percent by weight of hydroxy functional copolymer having a number average molecular weight of between about 1,500 and about 5,000 and a glass transition temperature of between about 250C and about 700 C. This hydroxy functional copolymer is formed from about 15 to about 35 weight percent of hydroxy functional monoethylenically unsaturated monomers, between about 2 and about 5 weight percent of alpha, beta olefinically unsaturated carboxylic acids and a remainder of other monoethylenicÅally unsaturated monomers. The crosslinking agent of the compositions of the invention comprises monomeric methylated melamine resin having a number average molecular weight of between about 350 and about 1,000 and is included in the composition in an amount ranging from about 20 to about 100 parts per 100 parts of the film forming component. The flow control additive is included in an amount ranging from about 0.5 to about 30, preferably from about 3 to about 15, parts of resin solids in the flow control additive. per 100 parts of total resin solids in the composition. Preferred embodiments of the invention will now be described, by way of example only. Polmeric Dispersion StabilizerThe stabilizer of this invention .is a copolymer prepared by reacting ethylenically unsaturated monomers A and random copolymer reactant B through complementary functionality present on the monomers A and the random copolymer reactant B . Copolymer reactant B comprises a random copolymer of i between about 20 and about 45, preferably between about 25 and about 40, weight percent of ethylenically unsaturated monomers, homopolymers of which would be substantially insoluble in a selected, organic liquid, ii between about 40 and about 75, preferably between about 50 and about 65, weight percent of ethylenically unsaturated monomers, homopolymers of which would be substantially soluble in the same organic liquid, and iii between about 2 and about 15, preferably between about 5 and about 10, weight percent of ethylenically unsaturated monomers bearing complementary. functionality capable of condensation reaction with ethylenically unsaturated monomers A .The ethylenically unsaturated monomers A are reacted with copolymer reactant B in an amount sufficient to react at least about 10 percent of complementary functionality of the copolymer. As used herein, weXhylenically unsaturated monomer means any monomer which bears ethylenic unsaturation, including doubly unsaturated monomers e.g., butadiene , and which is capable of polymerizing in a vinyl type manner. Condensation reactions between ethylenically unsaturated monomers A and complementary functionality of random copolymer reactant . B , as provided by ethylenically unsaturated monomers iii used to prepare that copolymer reactant, may be selected from the numeroust condensation reactions known to those skilled in the art.Common condensation reaction links are ester links, especially those formed by ester interchange or reaction such as carboxyl glycidyl, hydroxyl acid anhydride or hydroxyl acid chloride ether links, especially when formed by addition reactions between alkylene oxides and hydroxyl groups urethane links, especially those formed by reaction between isocyanate and hydroxyl and amide links, especially when formed by anìne acid chloride reactions. By way of example, among the numerous condensation reaction complementary groups are acid anhydride hydroxyl acid anhydride amine acid anhydride mercaptan epoxide acid epoxide amine isocyanate hydroxyl hemiformal amide carbonate amine cycloimide amine and cycloimide hydroxyl.Among the numerous monomers which may provide reactive groups either in the case of ethylenically unsaturated monomers A or the ethylenically unsaturated monomers iii used to prepare the random copolymer reactant are maleic anhydride maleic acid itaconic acid acid esters of maleic and itaconic acids glycidyl methacrylate glycidyl acrylate hydroxy alkyl methacrylates acrylamide methacrylamide dimethyl aminoethyl methacrylate vinylidene carbonate, N carbamyl maleimide, vinylisocyanate, etc. The first i and second ii types of ethylenically unsaturated monomers used in preparation of copolymer reactant B , as noted above, are characterized by the fact that if they were formed as homopolymers they would respectively be substantially insoluble and soluble in a selected organic liquid. It should be appreciated that the organic solvent selected is used herein merely as a guideline for identifying the relative solubility properties of the first two types of monomer components i and ii of the random copolymer and that it is not necessary that the stabilizer composition be in an organic liquid in order to exist.While it is not essential for the stabilizer to be maintained in an organic liquid, generally speaking the selected organic liquid which is used as a guide for determining the relative solubility properties of monomers i and ii of the random copolymer reactant used in preparation of the stabilizer will be the same organic liquid in which the stable dispersion is prepared using the stabilizer of the invention. The stable dispersions prepared using the stabilizer will be discussed further hereinafter. By substantially soluble or substantially insoluble in a selected organic liquid it is meant that the homopolymers in question would be either soluble or insoluble to the extent of about 908 in said selected organic liquid. It will be appreciated that since the selected organic liquid used in determining the solubility and insolubility of the first two types of monomers used in the random copolymer is generally the same as the organic liquid in which the stable dispersion is to be formed, the question of relative solubility and insolubility in the particular organic liquid will be determined by the same factors as are used as guidelines when determining which monomers and solvents are to be employed in the preparation of the stable nonaqueous dispersions. To this end, it will be appreciated that there are essentially three types of systems or reasons why a given polymer, or in the case of the determination of monomers for the random copolymer, homopolymers, are either soluble or insoluble in a given organic liquid.First, the homopolymer may be soluble or insoluble because it is polar relative to the organic liquid. Secondly, it may be soluble or insoluble because it is non polar relative to the organic liquid. Thirdly, it may be soluble or insoluble, in all common organic liquids because of its molecular structure and irrespective of relative polarity.Thus, ir selecting a monomer which is characterized in that homopolymers thereof would be substantially insoluble in a selected organic liquid, it is necessary to consider the type of organic liquid which is to be employed in making the determination of solubility or insolubility and to select a monomer which when homopolymerized will exhibit the desired insolubility. With respect to the second type of ethylenically unsaturated monomer, i.e., one which is characterized in that homopolymers thereof would be substantially soluble in the organic liquid, it is necessary to select the monomer which when homopolymerized will be soluble in that given organic liquid. The types of monomers, homopolymers of which will be soluble in given types of organic liquids should be apparent to those skilled in the art of nonaqueous dispersions.For a thorough discussion of relative solubilities and insolubilities attention is directed to the above discussed prior art patents. Generally speaking, when the organic liquid is of a non polar nature, such as an aliphatic hydrocarbon, suitable monomers, homopolymers of which would be insoluble or substantially insoluble therein, include acrylic monomers selected from a esters of C1 C3 aliphatic alcohols and acrylic, methacrylic or ethacrylic acids, b acrylic and methacrylic acids, and c ethylene and propylene glycol monoesters of acrylic, methacrylic or ethacrylic acids. These are essentially polar monomers or monomers which form polar homopolymers and which would be substantially insoluble in a non polar solvent such as aliphatic hydrocarbon. Especially preferred for use as this first type of monomer which would be insoluble in an aliphatic hydrocarbon or other non polar solvent is the polar monomer methylmethacrylate.. Exemplary of suitable monomers for use as the second type of monomer characterized by homopolymers thereof being substantially soluble in a non polar solvent such as an aliphatic hydrocarbon would be esters of C4 C18 aliphatic alcohols and acrylic, methacrylic or ethacrylic acids. It will be appreciated that monomers characterized in that they would form homopolymers which are highly polar, could be used in more polar organic liquids such as aromatic hydrocarbons, fatty esters and fatty ketones and still be substantially insoluble therein. Those skilled in the art will appreciate the numerous selections which could be made. If the selected organic liquid is one which is polar rather than non polar, then the particular ethylenically unsaturated monomers selected for the first two types i and ii used in the preparation of random copolymer reactant B will differ. Among the numerous polar solvents which will come to the mind of those skilled in the art are various alcohols such as methanol and ethanol, glycols, esters, ethers, polyols and ketones.When using such a polar organic liquid the first type of monomer i that which is characterized by being substantially insoluble in the selected organic liquid may be selected from numerous monomers which would be apparent to those skilled in the art. Among the long list are hydrocarbons such as styrene, vinyltoluene, divinylbenzene, isoprene, butadiene, isobutylene and ethylene. Also, of course the higher fatty esters of unsaturated acids such as acrylic,,, methacrylic and ethacrylic acids wherein the alcohol component of the ester contains a long carbon to carbon chain. Preferably these are esters of C4 C18 aliphatic alcohols and acrylic, methacrylic or ethacrylic acids.The polar monomers pr monomers homopolymers of which would be polar and therefore substantially soluble in such an organic liquid would include numerous monomers including those acrylic monomers selected from a esters of C1 C3 aliphatic alcohols .and acrylic, methacrylic or ethacrylic acids, b acrylic and methacrylic acids and c ethylene and propylene glycol monoesters of acrylic, methacrylic or ethacrylic acids. while, as discussed above, numerous types of ethylenic.ally unsaturated monomers may be employed in the preparation of the stabilizer as any one of the monomers A or any of the three types df monomers i , ii or iii used in the random copolymerization to form copolymer reactant B which reacts with monomers A , it is preferred that such monomers be acrylic monomers. 1Acrylic monomer as used herein means a monomer based on acrylic, methacrylic or ethacrylic acids. In those cases where complementary functionality is desired for a reaction between monomers . A and the random copolymer reactant B , the acid itself may, of course, be employed. Other types of acrylic monomers, which are commmonly known to those skilled in the art and which are desirable for use in the preparation of the stabilizer of the invention, are the numerous well known esters of acrylic, methacrylic and ethacrylic acids. Random copolymer reactant B , used to prepare the stabilizer of the invention has a number average molecular weight in the range of between about 4,000 and about 15,000, preferably, from about 6,000 to about 10,000. while, ethylenically unsaturated monomers A are reacted with the random copolymer reactant B in amounts sufficient to react with about 10 of said complementary functionality of the copolymer reactant B , it is pre ferred that the reactants be combined in amounts such that monomers A react with between about .5 and about 3.0 weight percent of the copolymer reactant B . Disporsions Generally The types of stable dispersion for which the stabilizers of the present invention are intended are well known and are commonly referred to as nonaqueous dispersions. To produce such dispersions, the addition polymer which is. formed in the solvent must b substantially insoluble in that organic liquid and consequently the nature of the polymer to be dispersed determines the nature of the organic liquid. By the same token, the nature of the polymer to be dispersed will determine the nature of the type of stabilizer and which of the various monomer combinations are employed in the preparation of that stabilizer in accordance with the invention.The question of selection of given organic liquids for particular types of polymers to be dispersed revolves around the same principles as discussed above for determination of various solubilities and insolubilities in the solvents. While any of the various combinations of monomers discussed above may be used in the preparation of stabilizers suitable for preparation of dispersions in accordance with the invention, a particularly preferred stabilizer is one which is fumed in the preparation of dispersions in aliphatic hydrocarbons. In that case, the monomer, the homopolymer of which is substantially insoluble in the aliphatic hydrocarbon, is methylmethacrylate and the monomer, the homopolymer of which is substantially soluble, is 2 ethylhexylacrylate.The monomers bearing complementary functionalities in that particular preferred, type of stabilizer are glycidyl acrylate or glycidyl methacrylete ori the one hand and acrylic or methacrylic acid on the other. The process by which stable dispersions are formed using the stabilizers of the present invention is .essentially the same as that which is very well known in the art in the preparation of non aqueous dispersions using other well known stabilizers. In general, it is anticipated or it may be anticipated that the stabilizer of the invention will adequately stabilize the addition polymer being formed if it is employed in amounts ranging from about 2 to about 20, preferably from about 5 to about 10, weight percent based on the total weight of the dispersion being formed and the weight of the stabilizer itself. It should be appreciated, that the ethylenic unsaturation which is present on the stabilizer itself takes part in the addition copolymerization forming the dispersed polymer. Crosslinked Dispersion The stable crosslinked dispersion of microgel particles is prepared by addition polymerization of a between about 1 and about 10 mole percent, preferably between about 2 and about 5 mole percent, each of first and second ethylenically unsaturated monomers, each bearing functionality capable of crosslinking with the other and b between about 98 and about 80 mole percent, preferably between about 96 and about 90 mole percent of at least one other monoethylenically unsaturated monomer.The addition polymerization is carried out in the presence of an organic liquid which is a solvent for the polymerizable monomers, .but a non solvent for the resultant polymer and in the presence of the aforementioned polymeric dispersion stabilizer. The polymerization is carried out at elevated temperatures such that the dispersion polymer is first formed and then crosslinked. The crosslinking functionalities on the first and second ethylenically unsaturated monomers a can be selected from a wide variety of functionalities which will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Among the preferred pairs of crosslinking functionalities which may be present on the first and second ethylenically unsaturated monomers are acid and epoxide epoxide and amine acid anhydride and hydroxyl acid anhydride and amine acid acid anhydride and mercaptan isocyanate and hydroxyl hemiformal and amide carbonate and amine cycloimide and amine cycloimide and hydroxyl imine and alkoxysilane etc. While the first and second ethylenically unsaturated monomers a may be any ethylenically unsaturated monomer within the scope of such term .as defined hereinbefore, it is preferred that the monomers be acrylic monomers as defined above. A preferred class of crosslinked dispersions within the scope of the invention is formed by free radical addition copolymerization, in the presence of the polymeric dispersion stabilizer and in the presence of a hydrocarbon dispersing liquid, of from about 1 to about 10, preferably from about 2 to about 5, mole percent of alpha, beta ethylenically unsaturated monocarboxylic acid from about 98 to about 80 weight percent of at least one other copolymer izable monoethylenically unsaturated monomer and from about 1 to about 10, preferably from about 2 to about 5, weight percent of a crosslinking monomer selected from the group consisting of ethylenically unsaturated monoepoxides.The preferred alpha, beta ethylenically unsaturated monocarboxylic acids for use in this class of crosslinked dispersions are acrylic acid and methacrylic acid, with methacrylic acid being especially preferred. Various other monoethylenically unsaturated monomers may be copolymerized with the acid monomer in the preparation of this class of crosslinked dispersion.Although essentially any copolymerizable monoethylenically unsaturated monomer may be utilized, depending upon the properties desired, the preferred monoethylenically unsaturated monomers are the alkyl esters of acrylic or methacrylic acid, particularly those having from about 1 to about 4 carbon atoms in the alkyl group.Illustrative of such compounds are the alkyl acrylates, such as methylacrlate, ethylacrylate, propylacrylate and butylacrylate and the alkyl methacrylates, such as methylmethacrylate, ethylmethacrylate, propylmethacrylate and b utylmethacrylate. Other ethylenically unsaturated monomers which may be advantageously employed include, for example, the vinyl aromatic hydrocarbons, such as styrene, alpha methylstyrene, vinyl toluène, unsaturated esters of organic and inorganic acids, such as vinyl acetate, vinyl chloride and the like, and the unsaturated nitriles, such as acrylonitrile, methacrylonitrile, ethacrylonitrile and the like. Although numerous ethylenically unsaturated monoepoxides will come to the mind of those skilled in the art, representative of the most preferred monoepoxides for this class of crosslinked dispersion are.glycidyl acrylate and glyc.dyl methacrylate. In a particularly preferred crosslinked dispersion embodiment within the aforementioned class, the monomers used in the addition copolymerization to form the dispersed polymer are characterized in that the alpha, beta ethylenically unsaturated monocarboxylic acid is methacrylic acid, the other copolymerizable monoethylenically unsaturated monomer methylmethacrylate and the crosslinking monomer is glycidyl methacrylate.In this particularly preferred crosslinked dispersion embodiment, the preferred polymeric dispersion stabilizer is one .in which ethylenically unsaturated monomers i and ii used to prepare the copolymer reactant B precursor of the polymeric dispersion stabilizer are methylmethacrylate and 2 ethylhexylacrylate respectively, and wherein one of the ethylenically unsaturated monomers A or iii of copolymer reactant B is glycidyl acrylate or glycidyl methacrylate and the other of said ethylenically unsaturated monomers A or iii is acrylic or methacrylic acid. Most preferred is the case wherein ethylenically unsaturated monomer iii of copolymer reactant B is glycidyl acrylate or glycidyl methacrylate and ethylenically unsaturated I monomers A comprise acrylic or methacrylic acid. .. The invention will be more fully understood from the following detailed examples which are merely exemplary of the multitude of compositidns which fall within the scope of the invention which illustrate the use of the stabilizer compositions of the. invention. Coating Compositions The coating compositions of the invention comprise hydroxy functional film former, crosslinking agents bearing functionality capable of reacting with the hydroxy functional group of the film former and a flow control additive comprising a stable, crosslinked dispersion containing microgel particles. In addition the compositions of the invention may include conventional additives such as catalysts, anti oxidants, UV absorbers, wetting agents, anti static agents, pigments, plasticizers, solvents, etc. Flow Control Additive The flow control additive employed in .compositions of the invention is the stable, crosslinked dispersion containing microgel particles described above, with or without further stabilization as hereinafter described and is incorporated in the compositions in an amount ranging from about 0.5 to about 30, preferably from about 3 to about 15, parts of resin solids in the flow control additve per 100 parts of total resin solids in the composition. As noted above, the flow control additve enhances the flow characteristics of the compositions, thus promoting smoothness and evenness of film coat and is particularly advantageous in those instances wherein metallic pigment is incorporated in automotive topcoating enamels. Film Forming Component The film forming component of the compositions of the invention is a hydroxy functional material capable of crosslinking with a crosslinking agent having functionality thereon adapted tb react with hydroxyl groups on the film former. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art, there are numerous types of hydroxy functional film forming materials which may be crosslinked to form cured films on substrates. This film former may comprise one or more hydroxy functional polymers or copolymers as well as additional hydroxy functional monomeric materials if desired. Of course1 additional film forming components, not bearing hydroxy functionality or bearing still other functionalities might also be included in the composition. These variations will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Exemplary of the numerous hydroxy functional copolymers which may be employed as film formers in compositions to which the improvement of this invention applies are the various acrylic based copolymers, including particularly those which have number average molecular weights of at least 150 up to approximately 20,000 and glass transition temperatures ranging from between about 250C and about 700C. Typically, such copolymers may include between about 5 and about 50 weight percent of monoethylenically unsaturated monomers bearing hydroxy functionality and between about 95 and about 50 weight percent of other monoc thylenically unsaturated monomers. The hydroxy functional monomers provide the copolymer with its hydroxy functionality and are selected typically from hydroxy alkyl esters of monoethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acids. The list of such typical hydroxy functional monomers suitable for forming such copolymers is well known to those skilled in the art and could include, for example, 2 hydroxyethyl acrylate 3 chloro 2 hydroxypropyl acrylate 2 hydroxy l methylethyl acrylate 2 hydroxypropyl actylate 3 hydroxypropyl acrylate 2,3 dihydroxypropyl ecrylate 2 hydroxybutyl acrylate 4 hydroxybutyl acrylate diethyleneglycol acrylate . 5 hydroxypentyl acrylate 6 hydroxyhexyl acrylate triethyleneglycol acrylate 7 hydroxyheptyl acrylate 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate 3 chlero 2 hydroxypropyl methacrylate 2 hydroxy l methylethyl methacrylate 2 hydroxypropyl methacrylate 3 hydroxyproeyl methacrylate 2,3 dihydroxypropyl 2 hydroxybutyl methacrylate 4 hydroxybutyl methacrylate 3,4 dihydroxybutyl methacrylate 5 hydroxypentyl methacrylate 6 hydro,xyhexyl methacrylate l,3 dimethyl 3 hydroxybutyl methacrylate 5,6 dihydroxyhexyl methacrylate and 7 bydroxyheptyl methacrylate. Preferred hydroxy functional monomers in such compositions are often Ce C7 hydroxy alkyl acrylates and or C6 Cg hydroxy alkyl methacrylates, i.e., esters of C2 C3 dihydric alcohols and acrylic or methacrylic acids.The remainder of monomers forming the such hydroxy functional copolymers typically are other monoethylenically unsaturated wonomers which preferably are alpha, beta olefinically unsaturated monomers, i.e., monomers bearing olefinic unsaturation between the two carbons in the alpha and beta positions with respect to the terminus of an aliphatic carbon to carbon chain. As is well known, among the numerous alpha beta olefinically unsaturated monomers which might be employed in such copolymers are acrylates, as defined herein, as well as mixtures of acrylates and vinyl hydrocarbons.Generally is such compositions in excess of 50 weight percent of the total are esters of C1 C12 monohydric alcohols and acrylic or methacrylic acids. Among monovinyl hydrocarbons suitable for use in forming copolymers of this type are those containing 8 to 12 carbon atoms and including styrene, alpha methylstyrene, vinyl toluene t butylstyrene and chlorostyrene. Generally s when monovinyl hydrocarbons are employed, they constitute less than 50 weight percent of the copolymer. Also, other monomers such as vinyl chloride, acrylonitrile, methacrylonitrile, and vinyl acetate may be included in these compositions as modifying monomers however, these modifying monomers should constitute only between about 0 and about 40. weight percent of the monomers in the copolymer. As mentioned above, one or more bydroxy functional polymers or copolymers.could be employed as the film forming material. For example, it may be desirable to employ hydroxy functional copolymers of varying molecular weights. Also, it may be desirable to include other hydroxy functional materials of the monomeric nature which would serve as reactive diluents in the compositions. These are only a few of the numerous types of combinations and modifications of film forming materials which could be employed. Examplary of the numerous types of compositions intended to be within the scope to which the improvement of this invention applies are compositions such as are disclosed and claimed in U.S.Serial Number 945,027 filed September 22, 1978 in the name of Chattha and the compositions which are disclosed and claimed in Application Serial No. 157,705, filed June 9, 198 0, which is a Continuation In Part of U.S. Serial Nos.041,207 filed May 21, 1979 and 000,852 filed January 4, 1979, as well as Application Serial No. 157,706 filed June 9, 1980, which is a Continuation In Part of U.S. SerialNos. 041,208 filed May 21, 1979 and 000,855 filed January 4, 1979.Crosslinking Agents The other major conventional component of compositions to which the improvement of this invention is applicable is a crosslinking agent capable of reacting with the hydroxyl groups of the hydroxy functional film forming material to effect a cure of the composition. While it will be, appreciated that the particular crosslinking agent is not critical to the invention and that many suitable materials may be selected, exemplary crosslinking .agents are isocyanates and well known amino compounds. Representative of isocyanate compounds useful as crosslinking agents in thermosetting coating compositions to which the improvement of the invention is applicable are polyisocyantes, i.e., compounds having two or more, .preferably three or more, reactive isocyanate groups per molecule. These polyisocyanate crosslinking agents are included in compositions of the invention in amounts typically ranging from about 0.5 to about 1.6 isocyanate groups per hydroxyl group in the composition. Polyisocyanates are well known in the art and numerous suitable isocyanates having two or more reactive isocyanate groups per molecule will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Among the many suitable polyisocyanates are aliphatic, cycloaliphatic and aromatic isocyanate compounds. Numerous representative polyisocyanate crosslinking agents are enumerated in the aforementioned Application Serial No. 157,705. Amino crosslinking agents useful in compositions which the improvement oe the invention may be applied are generally preferably condensation products of formaldehyde with melamine, substituted melamines urea or substituted and unsubstituted benzoguanamine. Such multi functional amino compounds, which are widely used in the coating industry, may be used in monomeric, polymeric or a mixture of monomeric and polymeric forms. Numerous examples of such representative amino compounds a e a Iso set forth in Application Serial No. is7,705. preferred Intermediate Solids Composition As discussed above, the preferred intermediate solids coating compositions of the invention comprise three primary components i a film forming component comprising hydroxy functional copolymer ii a butylated melamine formaldehyde cross linking agent and iii the flow control additive comprising a stable crosslinked dispersion as described above. . The film forming component of the intermediate solids composition comprises a hydroxy functional copolymer having a number average molecule weight Mn greater than about 5,000 and a glass transition temperature of between about 250C and about 700C. This hydroxy functional copolymer is formed from between about 5 and about 50, preferably between about 10 and about 30 weight percent of hydroxy functional monoethylenically unsaturated monomers and a remainder of other monoethylenically unsaturated monomers. While numerous hydroxy functional monoethylenically unsaturated monomers may be employed in the preparation of copolymers useful as a film forming component in the compositions of the invention, preferred monomers of this type are selected from the group consisting of hydroxy bearing aliphatic alcohol and esters of alpha, beta monoethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acids. Most preferably, the hydroxy functional monomers which provide the copolymer with its hydroxy functionality are selected from hydroxy alkyl esters of monoethylenically unsaturated carboxlic acids. Typical of such alpha, beta monoethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acids are acrylic, methacrylic and ethacrylic acids.Among the, numerous hydroxy functional monomers in this preferred class of monomers suitable for preparing the copolymers of the film forming component of the intermediate solids compositions are those hydroxy functional monomers listed in the general. description of the hydroxy functional film formers. The remainder of other monoethylenically unsaturated monomers forming the hydroxy functional copolymer of the film forming component, i.e., between about 50 and about 95 weight percent, preferably between about 70 and about 90 weight percent, are preferably alpha beta olefinically unsatured monomers, i.e., monomers bearing olefinic unsaturation between the two carbon atoms in the alpha and beta positions with respect to the terminus of an aliphatic carbon to carbon chain. In a preferred embodiment of the intermediate solids compositions, the remainder of other monoethylenically unsaturated monomers includes up to about 2 weight percent, based on the total weight of monomers used to prepare the hydroxy functional copolymer of an alpha, beta monoethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acid such as acrylic, methacrylic or ethacrylic acid. The remainder of monoethylenically unsaturated monomers, other than the carboxylic acids discussed above, are preferably selected from acrylates meaning esters of acrylic or methacrylic acids as well as mixtures of acrylates and vinyl hydrocarbons. Preferably, in excess of 30 weight percent of the total copolymer monomers are esters of a C1 C12 monohydr,c alcohol and acrylic, methacrylic or ethacrylic acid, e.g., methylmethacrylate, ethylacrylate, butylacrylate, butylmethacrylate, hexylacrylate. 2 ethylhexylacrylate, laurylmethacrylate, etc. Among the monovinyl hydrocarbons suitable for use in forming such copolymers are those containing 8 to 12 carbon atoms and including styrene, alpha methylstyrene, vinyl toluene, t butylstyrene and chlorostyrene.When such monovinyl hydrocarbons are employed, they should constitute less than about 50 weight percent of the copolymer. Other modifying vinyl monomers may also be included in this remainder of monoethylenically unsaturated monomers. These vinyl monomers such as vinyl chloride, acrylonitrile, methacrylonitrile, vinyl acetate, etc. should constitute only between about 0 and about 40 weight percent of the monomers of the hydroxy functional copolymer. In preparing such copolymers suitable for use as the hydroxy functional film former of the interrcdiate solids compositions, the hydroxy functional monomers and the remaining monoethylenically unsaturated monomers are mixed and reacted, typically by conventional free radical initiated polymerization, in such proportions as to obtain the copolymers desired. A large number of free radical initiators are known to those skilled in the art and are suitable for this purpose. Polymerization is preferably carried out in solution using a solvent in which the hydroxy functional copolymer is soluble. Numerous solvents will be apparent to those skilled in the art. In addition to the above discussed hydroxy functional copolymer, the hydroxy functional component of tho intcmediate solids compositions may also include other hydroxy functional materials in lesser amounts i.e. up to a total of 50 parts, preferably less than 35 parts, and generally, although not necessarily 10 parts or more, of other hydroxy functional materials per 100 parts of the totai hydroxy functional component . For example, the coating composition may further comprise one or more hydroxy functional copolymers having a number average molecular weight Mn of between about 1,500 and about 5,000 and a glass transition temperature between about 250C and about 700C.Such lower molecular weight hydroxy functional copolymers are generally formed from about 15 to about 35 weight percent, preferably from about 20 to about 30 weight percent, of hydroxy functional monoethylenicaly unsaturated monomers and a remainder of other monoethylenically unsaturated monomers. Suitable hydroxy functional and other monoethylenically unsaturated monomers are similar to those discussed above with respect to the higher molecular weight hydroxy functional copolymers. The hydroxy functional film forming component of the intermediate solids coating compositions of the invention may also include, for example, one or more hydroxy functional oligoesters in an amount ranging from about 5 to about 50, preferably from about 10 to about 35, weight percent of the hydroxy functional film former.These suitable oligoesters are those described in U.S.Patent Application Serial No. 157,705 filed June 9, 1980 and include those i having a number average molecular weight Mn of between about 150 and about 3,000, ii bearing at least two hydroxyl groups per molecule, and iii being selected from the group consisting of a esterification reaction products of polycarboxylic acids and monoepoxides b esterification reaction products of polyepoxides and monocarboxylic acids, preferably monocarboxylic acids containing no ethylenic unsaturation and bearing no hydroxy functionality c esterification reaction products of hydroxy functional carboxylic acids and mono or polyepoxides, preferably monoepoxides d esterification reaction products of monocarboxylic acids and hydroxy functional mono or polyepoxides, preferably monoepoxides and e mixtures of a d . Still other hydroxy functional materials which will be apparent to those skilled in the art may be included in minor amounts. The intermediate solids compositions t of the invention comprise between about 20 and about 100, preferably between about 30 and about 80, parts per 100 parts of said film forming component of butylated melamine formaldehyde crosslinking agent having a number average molecular weight of between about 700 and about 2,500. Suitable butylated melamine formaldehyde resins are those prepared by condensation of melamine, formaldehyde and butyl alcohol either in a one step process under acidic conditions or in a two step process in which the melamine and formaldehyde are reacted under basic conditions followed by etherification under acidic conditions. The molecular weight is governed by the ratios of the three components. High ratios of formaldehyde to melamine and high ratios of alcohol to formaldehyde tend to yield lower molecular weight resins.The molar ratio of formaldehyde to melamine ranges from 3.0 to 6, while the molar ratio of butanol to melamine may range from 6 to 12. Only a portion of the alcohols react and the remainder acts as a solvent. Molecular weight distributions are generally wide with the Mw range from about 2,000 to about 10,000 and the Mn ranging as stated above. Preferred High Solids Composition As discussed above, the preferred high solids coating compositions of the invention comprise three primary components i a film forming component consisting essentially of a polymeric componert having a number average molecular weight of less than about 5,000 ii a crosslinking agent comprising monomeric methalyated melamine resin and iii the flow control additive comprising a stable crosslinked dispersion as described above. The film forming component of the high solids compositions consists essentially of a polymeric component having a number average molecular weight of less than about 5,000. The polymeric component comprises at least about 50 percent by weight of hydroxy functional copolymer having a number average molecule weight Mn of between about 1,500 and about 5,000 and a glass transition temperature of between about 250C and about 700C. This hydroxy functional copolymer is formed from between about 15 and about 35, preferably between about 20 and about 30, weight percent of hydroxy functional monoethylenically unsaturated monomers, between about 2 and about 5 weight percent of alpha, beta olefinically unsaturated carboxylic acids and a remainder of other monoethylenically unsaturated mOnomers. While numerous hydroxy functional monoethylenically unsaturated monomers may be employed in the preparation of copolymers useful as a film forming component in the compositions of the invention, preferred monomers of this type are those described above in the description of the preferred intermediate solids compositions of the invention. In the preferred hydroxy functional copolymers useful in the high solids compositions of the invention, the alpha, beta olefinically unsaturated carboxylic acids in the monomer mix used to make the hydroxy functional copolymer are included in a amount ranging from about 2 to about 4 weight percent and are selected from acrylic, methacrylic and ethacrylic acids. It will be appreciated that other alpha, beta olefinically unsaturated carboxylic acids may also be employed. The remainder of other monoethylenically unsaturated monomers forming the hydroxy functional copolymer of the film forming component, i.e., between about 60 and about 83 weight percent, preferably between about 65 and about 78 weight percent, are preferably alpha beta olefinically unsatured monomers, i.e., monomers bearing olefinic unsaturation between the two carbdn atoms in the alpha and beta positions with respect to the terminus of an aliphatic carbon to carbon chain. The remainder of monoethylenically unsaturated monomers are preferably selected from acrylates meaning esters of acrylic or methacrylic acids as well as mixtures of acrylates and vinyl hydrocarbons. Preferably, in excess of 30 weight percent of the total copolymer monomers are esters of a C1 C12 monohydric alcohol and acrylic, methacrylic or ethacrylic acid, e.g., methylmethacrylate, ethylacrylate, butylacrylate, butylmethacrylate, hexylacrylate. 2 ethylhexylacrylate, laurylmethacrylateL etc. Among the monovinyl hydrocarbons suitable for use in forming such copolymers are those containing 8 to 12 carbon atoms and including styrene, alpha methylstyrene, vinyl toluene, t butylstyrene and chlorostyrene.When such monovinyl hydrocarbons are employed, they should constitute less than about 50 weight percent of the copolymer. Other modifying vinyl monomers may also be included in this remainder of monoethylenically unsaturated monomers. These vinyl monomers. ,. such as vinyl chloride, acrylonitrile, methacrylonitrile, vinyl acetate, etc. should constitute only between about 0 and about 40 weight percent of the monomers of the hydroxy functional copolymer. In preparing such copoly,lners suitable for use in the polymeric component of the film forming component of the high solids compositions of the invention, the hydroxy functional monomers and the remaining monoethylenically unsaturated monomers are mixed and reacted, typically by conventional free radical initiated polymerization in the manner discussed above. In addition to the above discussed hydroxy functional copolymer, other hydroxy functional polymeric materials may be employed in the polymeric component or film forming component of the compositions of the invention. Such other hydroxy functional polymeric materials will of course be included in lesser amounts i.e. up to a total of about 50 parts, preferably less than about 30 parts, of such other hydroxy functional materials per 100 parts of the polymeric component of the film forming component of the compositions .For example, the polyiWu ic component may further comprise one or more hydroxy functional oligoesters as discussed above Still other hydroxy functional materials which will be apparent to those skilled in the art may be included in minor amounts in the polymeric component of the film forming component of the high solids composi tions of the invention. Still further, minor amounts i.e., up to about 25 parts, preferably less than about 10 parts, per 100 parts of the polymeric component of other polymeric materials bearing no hydroxy functionality or other functionalities which do not interfere with the crosslinking reaction between the hydroxy functional materials and the crosslinking agent, may be employed. The high solids coating compositions of the invention include between about 20 and about 100 parts, preferably between about 40 and about 80 parts per 100 parts of the film forming component of a crosslinking agent comprising monomeric methylated melamine resin having a number average molecular weight of between about 350 and about 1,000. Monomeric methylated melamine resins are prepared by the co condensation of melamine, formaldehyde and methyl alcohol, usually in a two step procedure. In order to maximize the amount of monomeric structure, the ratio of condensed formaldehyde to melamine is high, usually greater than 5 to 1 and more preferably greater than 5.5 to 1. The melamine formaldehyde condensation is usually done under basic conditions.The etherification is then accomplished under acidic conditions with excess amounts of methanol to maximize the etherificiation and minimize condensation reactions that lead to dimers, trimers, etc. The ratios of methanol to melamine may range from 8 to 30 in this reaction step.Molecular weight ranges for this type of crosslinking material are between about 450 and 1,50D for weight average molecular weight and between about 350 and 1,000 as indicated above for number average molecular weight.The ratios of condensed methanol to melamine ranges from about 4.8 to about 6. The high solids compositions of the invention also may include up to about 50, preferably up to about 30, weight percent, based on the total weight of crosslinking agent, of a butylated melamine formaldehyde crosslinking agent of the type described above in connection with the preferred intermediate solids compositions of the invention. Further stabilization of the crosslinked dispersions alone or as flow control additve used in coating compositions of the invention is effected by adding to the crosslinked dispersions a further stabilizer which, except for any solvent present in the stabilizer composition, consists essentially of butylated melamine formaldehyde resin having Åa number average molecular weight in the range of from about 700 to about 2,500. This stabilizer is included in the crosslinked dispersion in an amount ranging from about 25 to about 75 parts, preferably from about 40 to about 60 parts, of resin solids per 100 parts of total resin solids in the crosslinked dispersion. Preferably the further stabilized dispersion of the invention have a solids level after addition of the further stabilizer and any additional solvent that may be desired in the range of 30 to 70 percent, most preferably in the range of 40 to 60 percent. Generally the further additive will be added to the crosslinked dispersion as a solution comprising one or more solvents for the butylated melamine formaldehyde resin. Preferably the further stabilizer should consist essentially of a solution of butylatcd melamine formaldehyde resin in an organic solvent in an amount such that the percentage solids of the butylated melamine formaldehyde resin in the solvent ranges from about 50 to about 90 percent.In 1 particularly preferred embodiment the further stabilizer consist essentially of a 65 percent solids solution of the butylated melamine formaldchydc resin in a 2 to 1 solution of butyl acetate and butyl alcohol. Suitable butylated melamine formaldehyde resins for use as the further stabilizing additive of the invention are those prepared by condensation of melamine, formaldehyde and butyl alcohol either in a one step process under acidic conditions or in a two step process in which the melamine and formaldehyde are reacted under basic conditions followed by etherification under acidic conditions. The molecular weight is governed by the ratios of the three components. High ratios of formaldehyde to melamine and high ratios of alcohol to formaldehyde tend to yield lower molecular weight resir.. The molar ratio of formaldehyde to melamine ranges from about 3.0 to 6, while the molar ratio of butanol to melamine may range from 6 to 12. Only a portion of the alcohols react and the remainder acts as a solvent.molecular weight distributions are generally wide, with the Mw range being from about 2,000 to about 10,000 and the Mn ranging as stated above. The invention will be more fully understood from the following detailed examples which are merely exemplary of the multitude of compositions which fall within the scope of the invention Example I A 2 liter flask equipped with a stirrer, thermometer, dropping funncl, and water condenser was charged with 590 grams n butyl acetate and 0.4 gram t butyl perbenzoate initiator. The initiator solution was heated to 1200C. While maintaining the temperature at 1200C, a mixture of 496 grams 2 ethylhexyl acrylate, 224 grams methyl methacrylate, 80 grams glycidyl methacrylate, and 4.2 grams t butyl peroctoate was added dropwise over a period of 3 hours.One hour after the addition, a mixture of 0.84 grams t butyl peroctoate and 25 grams n butyl acetate z as added and the reaction was allowed to continue for an additional 2 hours. Then a mixture of 1.28 grams hydroquinone, 6.4 grams methacrylic acid, 1.2 grams dimethyl dodecylamine, and 140 grams of n butyl acetate was added to the reaction mixture. The reaction was held at 1200C until the acid number was 0.2 mg KOH gram. The reaction product was a darkly colored solution having a solids content 50.6 , a Gardner viscosity of F, a number average molecular weight of 8545, and a weight average molecular weight of 28,865 determined by gel permeation chromatography using polystyrene calibration. Examples 2 7 Following the procedure of Example 1, a variety of stabilizers of various kind and ratio of monomers was prepared. Table I summarizes the monomers ratio and properties of some typical stabilizers. Table I M1 M2 M3 M4 Complementary Non Polar Polar Functional Unsaturated Ratio of Gardner SolidsExample Monomer Monomer Monomer Monomer M1 M2 M3 M4 Viscosity Content 2 EHA MMA GMA MAA 54 40 6 1 S 58.3 3 EHA MMA GMA MAA 59 35 6 2 T 59.1 4 EHA MMA GMA MAA 59 35 6 1 57.1 5 EHA MMA GMA MAA 65 25 10 0.8 G H 53.7 6 LA MMA GMA MAA 65 25 10 1.0 D 49.3 7 EHA MMA GMA MAA 64 30 6 1 N 57.2 Notes The following abbreviations are used EHA 2 Ethylhexylcrylate MMA Methyl Methacrylate GMA Glycidyl Methacrylate MAA Methacrylic Acid LA Lauryl acrylate Example 8 A nonaqueous acrylic dispersion polymer was prepared by heating to 900C 991 grams heptane, 41 grams methyl methacrylate, 8 grams of stabilizer from Example 5, and 0.7 gram azobis isobutyronitrile in a S liter flask which was equipped with a stirrer, thermometer, addition funnel, and water condenser. The reaction was held at 900C for 30 minutes then a mixture of 1022 grams methyl methacrylate, 55 grams glycidyl methacrylate, 34 grams methacrylic acid, 3.4 grams dimethyl dodecylamine, 152 grams of stabilizer from Example 5, 427 grams Espesol 260 I product of Charter Chemical Co. and 7.7 grams azobis isobutyronitrile was added dropwise over a period of 4 hours.One hour after the addition, 0.77 gram azobis isobutyronitrile dissolved in 150 grams n butyl acetate was added. The reaction was allowed to continue for an additional 2 hours. The resulting milky white acrylic dispersion polymer has a solids content of 43.0 and aFord No. 2 Cup viscosity of 28.9 seconds. Example 9 Using the procedure of Example 8, an acrylic dispersion polymer was prepared using the stabilizer ofExample 6. The resulting dispersion has a solids content of 43.5 and a Ford No. 2 Cup viscosity of 26.3 seconds. Example 10 A Flow Control Additive I An acrylic stabilizer copolymer with a composition of 55 35 10 0.8 2 ethylhexyl acrylate methyl methacryla,te glyc idyl me thac ryl at e me thac ryl i acid was prepared in accordance with the procedure of Example 1.The copolymer had a I viscosity Gardner Holdt at 508 solids in n butyl acetate. A flow control additive was prepared according to the procedure of Example 8 in which 1063 parts of methyl methacrylate , 55 parts of glycidyl methacrylate and 34 parts of methacrylic acid are reacted in the presence of 57 parts of the above acrylic stabilizer solution. The additive had a solids content of 43 in 60 25 15 heptane VM Naptha butyl acetate. B Silver Metallic Enamel A silver metallic enamel was prepared by mixing the following ingredients. Acrylic Resin A a 2166 Acrylic Resin B b 1634 Melamine Resin X c 1509 Flow Control Additive I 640 Aluminum paste 608 aluminum flake 175 Polybutyl acrylate 60 in xylene 31 Isobutyl acetate 1000 Ethylene glycol ethyl ether acetate 745 The enamel was sprayed on a primed steel panel and cured for 17 minutes at 2650C in a forced air oven. The panel had excellent brilliance and distinctness of image due to the even distribution of aluminum flake in the paint. A control enamel with no flow control additive appeared much darker and showed an uneven distribution of aluminum flake or mottling. 1 a Acrylic Resin A is a typical automotive thermoset acrylic resin with a monomeric composition of 37 20 27 15 1 styrene methyl methacrylate butyl acrylate hydroxy propylmethacrylate acrylic acid. The resin r has Y viscosity taken cut to 55 solids in 70 12 18 ccllosolve acetate butanol toluene. b Acrylic Resin B is an automotive thermoset acrylic resin with a 30 30 20 19 1 styrene butyl methacrylate 2 ethylhexyl acrylate hydroxypropyl methacrylate acrylic acid composition. The resin had a T viscosity at 50 nonvolatiles in 50j50 cellosolve acetate isopropyl acetate. c Melamine Resin X is a butylated melamine resin within U viscosity at 65 nonvolatiles in 2 1 liters of butyl acetate butyl alcohol and a ASTM D1198 mineral spirits tolerance of 300. Example 11 A white enamel was prepared by mixing the following ingredients Titanium Dioxide Millbase d 2891 Acrylic Resin C e 1241 Acrylic Resin D f 1099 Helamine Resin X same as in Ex. 10 1261 Polybutyl acrylate 60 in xylene 25 Isobutyl acetate 2276 Ethylene glycol monoethyl ether acetate 558 Flow Control Additive I 133 A primed panel was sprayed so that a film thickness wedge of 1.7 mils to 3.5 mils was realized after the panel was baked for 17 minutes at 2650F. Sagging of the film began at the 2.5 mil thickness region. A control enamel which did not contain the flow control additive sagged at about 1.9 mils. d The Millbase was prepared from Titanium dioxide 600 parts Acrylic Resin D 250 parts VM Naptha 110 parts Methyl Amyl Ketone 50 parts Butyl Acetate 40 parts Toluene 40 parts Xylene 8 parts e Acrylic Resin C is an acrylic copolymer of 30 30 20 18 2 styrene butyl methacrylate 2 ethylhexyl acrylate hydroxypropyl tnethacrylate acrylic acid. The resin had a Z viscosity at 50 solids in xylene. f Acrylic Resin D is an acrylic copolymer of 28 30 20 20 2 styrene butyl methacrylate ethylhexyl acrylate hydroxypropyl methacrylate acrylic acid. The resin had a T viscosity at 60 solids in a 1 1 methyl amyl ketone VM Naptha. Example 12 A Flow Control Additive II An acrylic stabilizer with a comonomer composition of 59 35 6 1 ethylhexyl acrylate methyl methacrylate glycidyl methacrylate methacrylic acrid was prepared according to the procedure of Example 1. The copolymer had an L viscosity at 588 solids in butyl acetate. A flow control additive was prepared from 1016 gms. of methyl methacrylate 52 gms. of glycidyl methacrylate 32 gms. of mothacrylic acid 186 gms. of acrylic stabilizer 8.8 gms. of azobisisobutyronirile 3.2 gms. of dimethyl dodecanoic amine 7.4 gms. of octyl neicaptan 930 gms. of heptane 394 gm. of VM Naptha 134 gms. of butyl acetate according to the procedure of Example 8 .The dispersion had a z nonvolatiles of 43 and a No. 2 Ford Cup viscosity of 29.1 seconds. B Silver Metallic Hiah Solids Enamel A silver metallic enamel was prepared by mixing the following ingredients Acrylic Resin E g 3475 Cymel 325 h 1799 RG 82 i 360 Flow Control Additive II 700 6.5 solids total solids Aluminum Flake Dispersion 60 Al 205 Methyl Ethyl Ketone 209 Ethylene glycol ethyl ether acetate 767 Isopropyl alcohol 330 Ethyl acetate 250 Diethylene glycol monobutyl ether 160 The enamel was sprayed on a primed metal panel to yield a ,film with Åa wedged film thickness of 1.5 to 3.0 after baking at 2830F for 20 minutes. The paint sagged at the 2.0 mil film thickness and higher. When the paint formula was adjusted to contain 7.5t of the flow control additive, the sag resistance improved to 2.2 mils.Similar paint with no flow control additive sagged at less than 1.0 mil film thickness. g Acrylic Resin E is a 25 23 20 30 2 styrene butyl methacrylate ethylhexyl acrylate hydroxyethyl acrylate acrylic acid copolymer which has a Z3 viscosity at 78 NV in methyl amyl ketone. h Cymel 325 is a methylated melamine formaldehyde resin available at 80 NV from American Cyanamid Company. i RG 82 is a product of Eastman Chemical Products, Inc. and is described as a reactive diluent with a hydroxyl equivalent weight of 91. Example 13 A nonaqueous acrylic dispersion polymer was prepared by heating to 900C, 838 grams heptane, 65 grams methyl methacrylate, 4.6 grams azobis isobutyronitrile and 11 grams of stabilizer from Example 7 in a 5 liter flask equipped with a stirrer, thermometer, addition funnel, and water condenser. The reaction was held at 900C for 30 minutes. Then a mixture of 156 grams hydroxyethyl acrylate, 40 grams methacrylic acid, 467 grams styrene, 303 grams butyl methacrylate, 311 grams ehtylhexyl acrylate, 395 grams Oe stabilizer from Example 7, 11 grams octyl mercaptan, 211 grams methyl methacrylate and 10 grams azobis isobutyronitrile was added dropwise over a period of 4 hours. One hour after the addition, 12 grams azobis isobutyronitrile dissolved in 258 grams n butyl acetate was added.The reaction was allowed to continue for an additional 2 hours. The 200 grams n butyl acetate was added. The resulting milky white dispersion has a solids content of approximately 52 . The stability of the dispersion was excellent. In view of this disclosure, many modifications of this invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art. It is intended that all such modifications which fall within the true scope of this invention be included within the terms of the appended claims. Example 14 Stabilized Flow Control Additive I An acrylic stabilizer copolymer with a composition of 65 24 10 1.0 2 ethylhexyl acrylatc methyl methacrylate glycidyl methacrylate methacrylic acid wa prepared in accordance with the procedure of Example 1The copolymer had a G viscosity Gardner Holdt at 50t solids in n butyl acetate. A flow control additive was prepared according to the procedure of Example 8 in which 1063 parts of methyl methacrylate, 55 parts of glycidyl methacrylate and 34 parts of methacrylic acid in the presence of 160 parts oL the acrylic stabilizer solution. The additive had a viscosity of 26.5 seconds on a No. 2 Ford Cup at a 42.9 solids. A stabilized flow control additive was prepared by mixing 1400 parts of the additive with 938 parts of Syn U Tex 4113E a and 148 parts of isopropyl acetate. The stabilized flow control additive has a viscosity of 34.2 seconds on a No. 2 Ford Cup at 47.5 solids. a Syn U Tex 4113E is a product of Celanese Plastics and Specialties Company. The material specifications are T W viscosity Gardner Holdt at 65 18 nonvolatile in 2 1 butyl acetate butanol. Example 15 Silver Metallic Enamel A silver metallic enamel was prepared by mixing the following ingredients. Acrylic Resin A a 2166 Acrylic Resin B b 1634 Syn U Tex 4113E 1066 Plow Control Additive Example 14 1152 Aluminum Paste 60 aluminum flake 175 Polybutyl acrylate 60 ill xylene 31 Isobutyl acetate z 930 Ethylene glycol ethyl ether acetate 745 The enamel was sprayed on a primod steel panel and cured for 17 minutes at 2650C in a forced air oven.The panel had excellent brilliance and distinctness of image due to the even distribution of aluminum flake in the paint. A control enamel with no flow control additive appeared much darker and showed an uneven distribution of flake. a Acrylic Resin A is a typical automotive thermoset acrylic resin with a monomeric compositions of 37 20 27 15 1 styrene methyl methacrylate butyl acrylate hydroxy propylmethacrylate acrylic acid. The resin has Y viscosity taken cut to 55 solids in 70 12 18 cellosolve acetatejbutanol toluene. b Acrylic Resin B is an automotive thermoset acrylic resin with a 30 30 20 19 1 styrene butyl methacrylate 2 ethylhexyl acrylate hydroxypropyl methacrylate acrylic acid composition. The resin had a T viscosity at 50 nonvolatiles in 50 50 cellosolve acetate isopropyl acetate. Example 16 White Enamel A white enamel was prepared by mixing the following ingredients. Titanium Dioxide Millbase d 2891 Acrylic Resin c e 1241 Acrylic Resin D f 1099 Syn U Tex 4113E 1173 Flow Control Additive Example 14 229 Polybutyl acrylate 60t in xylene 25 Isobutyl acetate 2268 Ethylene glycol monoethyl ether acetate 558 A primed panel was sprayed so that a film thickness wedge of 1.7 mils to 3.5 mils was realized after the panel was baked for 17 minutes at 2650F. Sagging of the film began at the 2.5 mil thickness region. A control enamel which did not contain the flow control additive sagged at about 1.9 mils. d The Millbase was prepared from Titanium dioxide 600 parts Acrylic Resin D 250 parts VM Naptha 110 parts Methyl Amyl Ketone 50 parts Butyl Acetate 40 parts Tol ucne 40 parts Xylene 8 parts e Acrylic Resin C is an acrylic copolymer of 30 30 20 18 2 styrene butyl methacrylate 2 ethylhexyl acrylatc hydroxypropyl methacrylate acrylic acid. The resin had a Z viscosity of 50 solids in xylene. f Acrylic Resin D is an acrylic copolymer of 28 30 20 20 2 styrene butyl methacrylate ethylhexyl acrylate hydroxypropyl methactylate acrylic acid. The resin had a T viscosity at 60 solids in a 1 1 methyl amyl ketone VM Naptha. Example 17 Stabilized Flow Control Additive II An acrylic stabilizer with a comonomer composition of 62 32 6 1 ethylhexyl acrylate methyl methacrylate glycidyl methacrylate methacrylic acid was prepared according to the procedure of Example 14. The copolymer had an R viscosity at 56.2 solids in butyl acetate.A flow control additive was prepared from 1063 gms. of methyl methacrylate 55 gms. of glycidyl methacrylate 34 gms. of methacrylic acid 160 gms. of acrylic stabilizer 8.4 gms. of azobisisobutyronitrile 3.4 gms. of dimethyl dodecanoic amine 7.7 gms. of octyl melcaptan 991 gms. of heptane 427 gms. of VbIsP Naptha 150 gms. of butyl acetate according to the procedure of Example 8. The dispersion had a 8 nonvolatiles of 43 and a No. 2 Ford Cup viscosity of 26.8 seconds. A stabilized flow control additive was prepared by mixing 1000 grams of the dispersion, 670 grams of Syn UTex 4113E and 106 grams of isopropyl acetate. The stabilized additive had a viscosity of 37.0 seconds on aNo. 2 Fdrd Cup at 48.28 soldis. Example 18 High Solids White Enamel A white enamel was prepared by mixing the following ingredients. Acrylic Resin G a 3362 Cymel 325 b 1381 Flow Control Additive Example 17 618 Phenyl acid phosphate 32 White Millbase 3077 Butanol 361 Methanol 242 2 Ethylhexyl Acetate 245 Monobutyl ether of diethylene glycol 140 methyl amyl ketone 441 The white millbase was prepared from Titanium Dioxide 2215 Acrylic Resin H C 385 Methyl amyl ketone 446 Isopropyl acetate 25 The enamel has a weight solids content of 66 and a No. 4 Ford Cup vi scosity of 31.5 seconds When sprayed on a primed panel and cured at 2650F for 20 minutes, no sagging was observed at film thicknesses below 70 microns film thickness. a Acrylic Resin G is an acrylic copolymer of 71 25 4 butyl methacrylate hydroxyethyl acrylatc acrylic acid which has a Z1 viscosity at 80e in methyl amyl ketone. b Cymel 325 is a methylated formaldehyde melamine resin at 80 NV and is a commercial product of American Cyanamid Company. c Acrylic Resin H is an acrylic copolymer of 68 30 2 butyl methacrylate hydroxyethyl acrylate acrylic acid which has a Z viscosity at 80 NV in methyl anyl ketone. Example 19 fligh Solids Green Metallic Enamel A, dark green enamel with improved aluminum control and good sag resistance was prepared by mixing the following ingredients. Acrylic Resin G 3586 Cymcl 325 1370 Flow Control Additive Example 17 1000 Phenyl acid phosphate 24 Aluminum Paste 1 128 Yellow Millbase 2 603 Blue Millbase 3 185 Black Millbase 4 254 Methanol 225 Ethyl Acetate 177 Butyl Acetate 5 177 Methyl Amyl Ketone 201 Cellosolve Acetate 112 Butyl Alcohol 203 Ethylhexyl Acetate 81 The enamel was 60 weight solids at 29 seconds viscosity in a No. 4 Ford Cup. 1 The aluminum paste was a mixture of Acrylic Resin H 3125 Aluminum Flake 25 VMP Naptha 12.2 Butyl Alcohol 6.5 Ccllosolve Acetate 25 2 The yellow mlllbase was a mixture of Ycllow shade phthalocyanine grecn 90 Acrylic Resin H . 181 3 Methyl Amyl Ketone 120 Butyl Alcohol 211 3 The blue millbase was a mixture, of Phthalocyanine blue 15 Melamine Resin X 37 Butyl Alcohol 133 4 .The black millbase was a mixture of Furnace black 13 Acrylic Resin H 196 Methanol 21 Xylene 24 In view of the disclosure, many modifications of this invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art. It is intended that all such modifications which fall within the true scope of this invention be included within the terms of the appended claims.