# Hybrid human leukocyte interferons, process for their microbial production, intermediates therefor and compositions containing them.

## Abstract
Microbially produced hybrid human leukocyte inter ferons, useful in the treatment of viral and neoplastic diseases, and means used in their production, i.e. re combinant DNA molecules coding for the amino acid sequences of these interferons, vectors capable of ex pressing these interferons in microbial host organisms and host organisms transformed with these vectors.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An antiviral polypeptide of approximately 165 166 amino acids, the amino acid sequence of said polypeptide comprising, in sequence, discrete sub sequences corresponding in amino acid identity and number to sub sequences of different, naturally occurring leukocyte interferons, the amino acid sequence of said polypeptide differing in overall composition from the amino acid sequence of naturally occurring leukocyte interferons. 2. A polypeptide according to claim 1 the N terminal portion thereof consisting essentially of amino acids 1 92 of LeIF D and the carboxy terminal portion thereof consisting essentially of amino acids 92 165 of LeIF A. 3. A polypeptide according to claim 1 the N terminal portion thereof consisting essentially of amino acids 1 91 of LeIF A and the carboxy terminal portion thereof consisting essentially of amino acids 93 166 of LeIF D. 4. A polypeptide according to claim 1 the N terminal portion thereof consisting essentially of amino acids 1 63 of LeIF D and the carboxy terminal portion thereof consisting essentially of amino acids 63 165 of LeIF A. 5. A polypeptide according to claim 1 the N terminal portion thereof consisting essentially of amino acids 1 62 of LeIF A and the carboxy terminal portion thereof consisting essentially of amino acids 64 166 of LeIF D. 6. A polypeptide according to claim 1 the N terminal portion thereof consisting essentially of amino acids 1 91 of LeIF A and the carboxy terminal portion thereof consisting essentially of amino acids 93 166 of LeIF B. 7. A polypeptide according to claim 1 the N terminal portion thereof consisting essentially of amino acids 1 91 of LeIF A, the carboxy terminal portion thereof consisting essentially of amino acids 93 166 of LeIF F. 8. Double stranded DNA comprising a strand encoding a polypeptide as claimed in any one of claims 1 5. 9. Double stranded DNA comprising a strand encoding a polypeptide as claimed in claims 6 and 7. 10. A replicable plasmidic expression vehicle capable, in a transformant microorganism, of expressing a polypeptide as claimed in any one of claims 1 5. 11. A replicable plasmidic expression vehicle capable, in a transformant microorganism, of expressing a polypeptide as claimed in claims 6 and 7. 12. A transformant microorganism containing the expression vehicle of claim 10. 13. A transformant microorganism containing the expression vehicle of claim 11. 14. A plasmid selected from the group consisting of pLeIF AD trp Bgl II , pLeIF AD trp Pvu II , pLeIF DA trp Bgl II and pLeIF DA trp Pvu II . 15. A plasmid selected from the group consisting of pLeIF AB Pvu II and pLeIF AF Pvu II . 16. A method of forming a double stranded DNA as claimed in claim 8 or 9 which comprises a. selecting a first, double stranded DNA fragment com prising codons encoding all or a portion of the amino acid sequence of a first, naturally occurring leuko cyte interferon, said fragment including codons for the amino terminal portion of said interferon and, spaced in the 3 direction therefrom, a first restric tion endonuclease cleavage site b. cleaving said fragment with said restriction endo nuclease c. selecting a second double stranded DNA fragment encoding all or a portion of the amino acid sequence of a second, different, naturally occurring leuko cyte interferon, the second fragment comprising an identical restriction endonuclease cleavage site essentially identically positioned from the stand point of the amino acid numbering of the two inter ferons and additionally comprising, beyond said site, codons for the carboxyl terminal portion of the second interferon d. cleaving the second fragment with said restriction endonuclease and e. ligating restriction endonuclease digestion products of steps b and d to reconstitute said restriction endonuclease site and form a hybrid fragment com prising, in sequence, codons for the amino terminal portion of the first interferon and the carboxy terminal portion of the second. 17. A method of forming an antiviral polypeptide as claimed in any one of claims 1 7 which comprises a. deploying the hybrid DNA fragment resulting from the method claimed in claim 16 within a replicable plas midic expression vehicle, transforming a.micro organism with the same, culturing the microorganism and occasioning the expression of the polypeptide encoded by the hybrid DNA fragment and b. lysing the resulting microorganism and recovering therefrom the polypeptide. 18. A pharmaceutical composition containing a therapeutically effective amount of a polypeptide as claimed in any one of claims 1 7 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier vehicle. 19. The use of a polypeptide as claimed in any one of claims 1 7 in the treatment of viral or neoplastic diseases or in the preparation of pharmaceutical compositions useful in such treatment. 20. The products and processes for their preparation as hereinbefore described. CLAIMS A U S T R I A 1. A process for producing an antiviral polypeptide of approximately 165 166 amino acids, the amino acid sequence of said polypeptide comprising, in sequence, discrete sub sequences corresponding in amino acid identity and number to sub sequences of different, naturally occurring leukocyte interferons, the amino acid sequence of said polypeptide differing in overall composition from the amino acid sequence of naturally occurring leukocyte interferons, which process comprises deploying a hybrid double stranded DNA fragment comprising a strand encoding the polypeptide within a replicable plasmidic expression vehicle, transforming a microorganism with the same, culturing the microorganism and occasion the expression of the encoded polypeptide, lysing the resulting microorganism and recovering therefrom the polypeptide. 2. A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein the Nterminal portion of the antiviral polypeptide consists essentially of amino acids 1 92 of LeIF D and the carboxy terminal portion thereof consists essentially of amino acids 92 165 of LeIF A. 3. A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein the Nterminal portion of the antiviral polypeptide consists essentially of amino acids 1 91 of LeIF A and the carboxy terminal portion thereof consists essentially of amino acids 93 166 of LeIF D. 4. A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein the Nterminal portion of the antiviral polypeptide consists essentially of amino acids 1 63 of LeIF D and the carboxy terminal portion thereof consists essentially of amino acids 63 165 of LeIF A. 5. A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein the Nterminal portion of the antiviral polypeptide consists essentially of amino acids 1 62 of LeIF A and the carboxy terminal portion thereof consists essentially of amino acids 64 166 of LeIF D. 6. A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein the Nterminal portion of the antiviral polypeptide consists essentially of amino acids 1 91 of LeIF A and the carboxy terminal portion thereof consists essentially of amino acids 93 166 of LeIF B. 7. A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein the Nterminal portion of the antiviral polypeptide consists essentially of amino acids 1 91 of LeIF A and the carboxy terminal portion thereof consists essentially of amino acids 93 166 of LeIF F. 8. A process of forming a double stranded DNA coding for a hybrid human leukocyte interferon of approximately 165 166 amino acids which process comprises a selecting a first, double stranded DNA fragment comprising codons encoding all or a portion of the amino acid sequence of first, naturally occurring leukocyte interferon, said fragment including codons for the amino terminal portion of said interferon and, spaced in the 3 direction therefrom, a first restriction endonuclease cleavage site b cleaving said fragment with said restriction endo nuclease c selecting a second double stranded DNA fragment encoding all or a portion of the amino acid sequence of a second, different, naturally occurring leukocyte interferon, the second fragment comprising an identical restriction endonuclease cleavage site essentially identically positioned from the stand point of the amino acid numbering of the two inter ferons and additionally comprising, beyond said site, codons for the carboxyl terminal portion of the second interferon d cleaving the second fragment with said restriction endonuclease and e ligating restriction endonuclease digestion products of steps b and d to reconstitute said restriction endonuclease site and form a hybrid fragment com prising, in sequence, codons for the amino terminal portion of the first interferon and the carboxy terminal portion of the second. 9. A process as claimed in claim 8 wherein the first, naturally occurring leukocyte interferon is LeIF D and the second, naturally occurring leukocyte interferon isLeIF A. 10. A process as claimed in claim 8 wherein the first, naturally occurring leukocyte interferon is LeIF A and the second, naturally occurring leukocyte interferon isLeIF D. 11. A process as claimed in claim 8 wherein the first, naturally occurring leukocyte interferon is LeIF A and the second, naturally occurring leukocyte interferon isLeIF B. 12. A process as claimed in claim 8 wherein the first, naturally occurring leukocyte interferon is LeIF A and the second, naturally occurring leukocyte interferon isLeIF F. 13. A process for the preparation of pharmaceutical compositions containing an antiviral polypeptide of approximately 165 166 amino acids, the amino acid sequence of said polypeptide comprising, in sequence, discrete subsequences. corresponding in amino acid identity and number to sub sequences of different, naturally occurring leukocyte interferons, the amino acid sequence of said polypeptide differing in overall composition from the amino acid sequence of naturally occurring leukocyte interferons which process comprises mixing said polypeptide with non toxic, inert, therapeutically compatible carriers and bringing the resulting mixture into a suitable pharmaceutical dosage form. 14. A pharmaceutical composition containing a therapeutically effective amount of an antiviral polypeptide of approximately 165 166 amino acids, the amino acid sequence of said polypeptide comprising, in sequence, discrete sub sequences corresponding in amino acid identity and number to sub sequences of different, naturally occurring leukocyte interferons, the amino acid sequence of said polypeptide differing in overall composition from the amino acid sequence of naturally occurring leukocyte interferons and a non toxic, inert, therapeutically compatible carrier. 15. Double stranded DNA comprising a strand encoding a polypeptide of approximately 165 166 amino acids, the amino acid sequence of said polypeptide comprising, in sequence, discrete sub sequences corresponding in amino acid identity and number to sub sequences of different, naturally occurring leukocyte interferons, the amino acid sequence of said polypeptide differing in overall composition from the amino acid sequence of naturally occurring leukocyte interferons. 16. Double stranded DNA as claimed in claim 15 wherein the N terminal portion of the encoded polypeptide consists essentially of amino acids 1 92 of LeIF D and the carboxy terminal portion thereof consists essentially of amino acids 92 165 of LeIF A. 17. Double stranded DNA as claimed in claim 15 wherein the N terminal portion of the encoded polypeptide consists essentially of amino acids 1 91 of LeIF A and the carboxy terminal portion thereof consists essentially of amino acids 93 166 of LeIF D. 18. Double stranded DNA as claimed in claim 15 wherein the N terminal portion of the encoded polypeptide consists essentially of amino acids 1 63 of LeIF D and the carboxy terminal portion thereof consists essentially of amino acids 63 165 of LeIF A. 19. Double stranded DNA as claimed in claim 15 wherein the N terminal portion of the encoded polypeptide consists essentially of amino acids 1 62 of LeIF A and the carboxy terminal portion thereof consists essentially of amino acids 64 166 of LeIF D. 20. Double stranded DNA as claimed in claim 15 wherein the N terminal portion of the encoded polypeptide consists essentially of amino acids 1 91 of LeIF A and the carboxy terminal portion thereof consists essentially of amino acids 93 166 of LeIF B. 21. Double stranded DNA as claimed in claim 15 wherein the N terminal portion of the encoded polypeptide consists essentially of amino acids 1 91 of LeIF A and the carboxy terminal portion thereof consists essentially of amino acids 93 166 of LeIF F. 22. A replicable plasmidic expression vehicle capable in a transformant microorganism of expressing a polypeptide coded by a DNA sequence according to any one of claims 15 21. 23. A plasmid selected from the group consisting of pLeIF AD trp Bgl II , pLeIF AD trp Pvu II , pLelF DA trp Bgl II and pLeIF DA trp Pvu II . 24. A plasmid selected from the group consisting of pLeIF AB Pvu II and pLeIF AF Pvu II . 25. A microorganism transformed with an expression vehicle of claim 23 or claim 24.

## Description
HYBRID HUMAN LEUKOCYTE INTERFERONS. PROCESS FOR THEIR MICROBIAL PRODUCTION, INTERMEDIATES THEREFOR AND COtEPOSITIONS CONTAINING THEM This invention relates to the microbial production, via recombinant DflA technology, of hybrid leukocyte interferons for use in the treatment of viral and neoplastic diseases, and to the means and end products of such production.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Relatively homogeneous leukocyte interferons have been derived from normal or leukemic donors leukocytes. These interferons are a family of proteins characterized by a potent ability to confer a virus resistant state in their target cells. In addition, interferon can act to inhibit cell proliferation and modulate immune response. These properties have prompted the clinical use of interferon as a therapeutic agent for the treatment of viral infections and malignancies. More recently, recombinant DNA technology has been employed to occasion the microbial production of a number of different leukocyte interferons whose amino acid sequences exhibit on the order of 70 percent homology, one relative to another, all as disclosed byDavid V. Goeddel et al. nature 290, 20 26 1981 . Genes encoding amino acid sequences of various leukocyte interferons designated, inter alia, LeIF A, B, C, D, F, G and H, respectively, are obtained from the cell line KG 1 described by Koeffler, H.P. and Golde, D.W. Science 200, 1153 1154 1978 by David V. Goeddel and Sidney Pestka.The cell line KG 1 has been deposited with the American type culture ccllection, ATCC Accession Number CRL 8031.Such genes, appropriately deployed in plasmidle vehicles for bacterial expression, may be employed to transform host bacteria., preferably E. coli K 12 strain 294, American type culture collection Accession No. 31446, depositedOctober 28, 1978. The workhorse of recombinant DNA technology is the plasmid, a non chromosomal loop of double stranded DNA found in bacteria and other microbes, oftentimes in multiple copies per cell. Included in the information encoded in the plasmid DNA is that required to reproduce the plasmid in daughter cells i.e., a replicon and ordinarily, one or more selection characteristics such as, in the case of bacteria, resistance to antibiotics which permit clones of the host cell containing the plasmid of interest to be recognized and preferentially grown in selective media. The utility of plasmids lies in the fact that they can be specifically cleaved by one or another restriction endonuclease or restriction enzyme , each of which recognizes a different site on the plasmidic DNA.Thereafter heterologous genes or gene fragments may be inserted unto the plasmid by endwise joining at the cleavage site or at reconstructed ends adjacent to the cleavage site. DNA recombination is performed outside the cell, but the resulting recombinant plasmid can be introduced into it by a process known as transformation and large quantities of the heterologous gene containing recombinant plasmid obtained by growing the transformant. Moreover, where the gene is properly inserted with reference to portions of the plasmid which govern the transcription and translation of the encoded DNA message, the resulting expression vehicle can be used to actually produce the polypeptide sequence for which the inserted gene codes, a process referred to as expression. Expression is initiated in a region known as the promoter which is recognized by and bound by RNA polymerase. In some cases, as in the tryptophan or trp promoter preferred in the practice of the present invention, promoter regions are overlapped by operator regions to form a combined promoter operator. Operators are DNA sequences which are recognized by so called repressor proteins which serve to regulate the frequency of transcription initiation at a particular promoter. The polymerase travels along the DNA, transcribing the information contained in the coding strand from its 5 to 3 end into messenger RNA which is in turn translated into polypeptide having the amino acid sequence for which the DNA codes.Each amino acid is encoded by a nucleotide triplet or codon within what may for present purposes be referred to as the structural gene , i.e. that part which encodes the amino acid sequence of the expressed product. After binding to the promoter, the RNA polymerase first transcribes nucleotides encoding a ribosome binding site, then a translation initiation or start signal ordinarily ATG, which in the resulting messenger RNA becomes AUG , then the nucleotide codons within the structural gene itself. So called stop codons are transcribed at the end of the structural gene whereafter the polymerase may form an additional sequence of messenger RNA which, because of the presence of the stop signal, will remain untranslated by the ribosomes.Ribosomes bind to the binding site provided on the messenger RNA, in bacteria ordinarily as the mRNA is being formed, and themselves produce the encoded polypeptide, beginning at the translation start signal and ending at the previously mentioned stop signal. The desired product is produced if the sequences encoding the ribosome binding site are positioned properly with respect to the AUG initiator codon and if all remaining codons follow the initiator codon in phase. The resulting product may be obtained by lysing the host cell and recovering the product by appropriate purification from other bacterial protein.BRIEF SUtllARY OF THE INVENTION Nucleotide sequence studies of genes encoding the various leukocyte interferons reveals a degree of commonality amongst various of them with regard to the presence and location of cleavage sites recognized by particular restriction endonucleases. According to the present invention, advantage may be taken of this commonality to form, by DNA recombination, novel hybrid genes useful in the microbial production of hybrid leukocyte interferons which may be expected to exhibit in greater or lesser degree the antiviral and other properties of interferons encoded by the parental genes. In preferred embodiments of the invention, such hybrid leukocyte interferons may exhibit enhanced activity relative to those encoded by the parental genes. The parental leukocyte interferon genes, encoding the family of leukocyte interferon proteins contemplated herein, exhibit natural allelic variations from individual to individual. These variations may be demonstrated by an amino acid difference s in the overall protein sequence or by deletions, substitutions, insertions, inversions or additions of an amino acid s in said sequence. For each parental leukocyte interferon hereof, labelled LeIF A, LeIF B . . . LeIF J, etc., such allelic variations are included within the scope of the label or term defining such, and thus, this invention. The manner in which these and other objects and advantages of the invention are obtained will become further apparent from the detailed description which follows and from the accompanying drawings in which Figure 1 depicts nucleotide sequences of the coding regions of 8 leukocyte interferon LeIF complementary DNA cDNA clones. Of these, one, correspondingly designated LeIF E, is an apparent pseudogene encoding no active leukocyte interferon while another, designated LeIF G, contains less than the full sequence for the corresponding interferon species. The ATG translational initiation codon and the termination triplet for each LeIF is underlined. Figure 2 depicts restriction endonuclease maps of eight types of LeIF cloned cDNAs A through H . Plasmids containing the clones were constructed by the dC dG tailing method EGoeddel, D.V. et al. Nature 287, 411 416 1980 3. Therefore the cDNA inserts can be excised using Pst I, i.e., each end of each insert is a Pst i restriction endonuclease cleavage site. The lines at tlie end of each cONA insert represent the flanking homopolymeric dC dG tails. The positions of Pvu II, Eco RI andBgl II restriction sites are indicated. Shaded regions of the Figure represent the coding sequences of mature LeIFs the cross hatched regions indicate signal peptide coding sequences and the open regions show 3 and 5 noncoding sequences. Figure 3 is a comparison of the eight LeIF protein sequences predicted from the nucleotide sequences. The one letter abbreviations recommended by the IUPAC IUB Çommission on Biochemical Nomenclature are used A, alanine C, cysteine D, aspartic acid F, glutamic acid F, phenylalanine G, glycine H, histidine I, isoleucine K, lysine L, leucine M, methionine N, asparagine P, proline Q, glutamine R, arginine S, serine T, threonine V, valine W, tryptophan and Y, tyrosine. The numbers refer to amino acid position S refers to signal peptide . The dash in the 165 amino acid LeIF A sequence at position 44 is introduced to align the LeIF A sequence with the 166 amino acid sequences of the other LeIFs. The LeIF E sequence was determined by ignoring the extra nucleotide position 187 of Figure 1 in its coding region.The asterisks indicate in phase termination codons. Amino acids common to all LeIFs excluding the pseudogene LeIF E are also shown.The underlined residues are amino acids which are also present in human fibroblast interferon. With reference to Figure 1, nucleotides 1 to 69 correspond to 5.1 to S23 amino acids of Figure 3. Codon TGT nucleotides 70 to 72 of Figure corresponds to cysteine C, amino acid 1 of Figure 3. In Figure 3, thePvu II restriction endonuclease cleavage site occurs between the codons for amino acids 92 and 93 in LeIF A,B,D,F and G, i.e., between nucleotides 346 and 347, of Figure 1. Figure 4 compares the amino acid sequences of mature leukocyte interferons A and D, a deletion of amino acid 44 in LeIF A being indicated by dashes. Only those LeIF D amino acids which differ from corresponding amino acids of LeIF A are depicted the amino acid sequence of LeIF D is otherwise identical of LeIF A. Figure 4 also indicates the relative position on the corresponding gene of Bgl II andPvu II restriction endonuclease cleavage sites employed in forming preferred hybrid leukocyte genes of the invention. Figures 5 and 6 illustrate the results of comparative testing of a preferred hybrid leukocyte interferon of the invention LeiF AlD for activity against encephalomyocarditis virus EMC and vesicular stomatitis virus VSV , rspectively in mouse cells. Figures 7 and 8 depict the results of comparative testing involving LelF A D and other interferons against EMC virus infections in, respectively, mice and hamsters. The data in Figure 7 result from treatments i.p. 3 hrs. before infection. Dosages of LeIF A D and LeIF A are as titrated on WISH cells. Figure 9 provides the DNA sequences of five LeIF proteins hereof, including types I.and J.DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EllBODIMENTS Microorganisms Employed The work described involved use of two microorganisms E. coli x1776, as described in U.S. Patent 4190495, and E. coli K 12 strain 294 end A, thi , hsr , hsmk , as described in British Patent PublicationNo. 2055382A. Each has been deposited with the American Type CultureCollection, ATCC Accession Nos. 31537 and 31446, deposited July 3, 1979 and October 28, 1978, respectively. All recombinant DNA work was performed in compliance with applicable guidelines of the NationalInstitutes of Health. The invention, in its most preferred embodiments, is described with reference to E. coli, including not only strains E. coli x 1776 andE. coli K 12 strain 294, defined above, but also other known E. coli strains such as E. coli B, or other microbial strains many of which are v deposited and potentially available from recognized microorganism depository institutions, such as the American Type Culture Collection,ATCC. See the ATCC.catalogue listing and also GermanOffenlegungsschrift 2644432 . These other microorganisms include, for example, Bacilli such as Bacillus subtilis and other enterobacteriaceae among which can be mentioned as examples Salmonella typhimurium andSerratia marcesce g tilizing plasmids that can replicate and express heterologous gene sequences therein.Yeast, such as Saccharomyces cerevisiae, may also be employed to advantage as host organism in the preparation the interferon proteins hereof by expression of. genes coding therefor under the control of a yeast promoter. The LeIF hybrids are prepared, in accordance with the present invention, by taking advantage of restriction endonuclease cleavage sites commonly located within the individual parental genes and each end thereof in conjunction with the same sites in carrier expression plasmid vectors . For example, the large ru3900 bp fragment of a Xba I to Pst digest of the pLeIF A trp 25 expression plasmid can be ligated with Xba I to Pvu II and Pvu II to Pst I digest fragments of the various LeIF parental gens to provide expression plasmids operable to obtain the corresponding hybrid LeIF. Each LeIF expression plasmid was constructed independently with digest fragments isolated from various LeIF plasmids, e.g., pLeIF A trp 25, pLeIF 8 trp 7, pLeIF C trp 35, pLeIF D trp 11, pLeIF F trp 1, pLeIF G, pLeIF H, and pLeIF I, etc. whose construction is described inNature 287, 411 1980 or from pBR322, whose construction is described in Gene 2, 95 1977 . In certain of these plasmids, trp designates a tryptophan promoter operator system most preferred for bacterial expression, as described in published European patent application No.36776.Direct Expression of a First Mature Leukocyte Interferon The procedure followed to express Le IF A directly as a mature interferon polypeptide involved the combination of synthetic N terminal and complementary DNAs. A Sau 3a restriction endonuc7ease site is conveniently located between codons 1 and 2 of Le IF A. Two synthetic deoxyoligonucleotides were designed which incorporate an ATG translational initiation codon, restore the codon for amino acid 1 cysteine , and create an Eco RI sticky end. These oligomers were ligated to a 34 b.p. Sau 3a Ava II fragment of pL31. The resulting 45 b.p. product was ligated to two additional DNA fragments to construct an 865 base pair synthetic natural hybrid gene which codes for Le IF A and which is bounded by Eco RI andPst I restriction sites. This gene was inserted into pBR322 between theEco RI and Pst I sites to give the piasmid pLe IF Al. Plasmid pGM1 carries the E. coli tryptophan operon containing the deletion ALE1413 CG.F. Miozzari et al.,J. Bacteriology 133, 1457 1466 1978 and hence expresses a fusion protein comprising the first 6 amino acids of the trp leader and approximately the last third of the trpE polypeptide hereinafter referred to in conjunction as LE , as well as the trp D polypeptide in its entirety, all under the control of the tro promoter operator system. The plasmid, 20 g, was digested with the restriction enzyme Pvu II which cleaves the plasmid at five sites. The gene fragments were next combined with EcoRI linkers consisting of a self complementary oligonucleotide of the sequence pCATGAATTCATG providing an EcoRI cleavage site for a later cloning into a plasmid containing an EcoRI site.The 20 g of DNA fragments obtained from p9Ml were treated with 10 units T4 DNA ligase in the presence of 200 pico moles of the 5 phosphorylated synthetic oligonucleotide pCATGAATTCATG and in 20ul T4 DNA ligase buffer 20mM tris, pH 7.6, 0.5 mtt ATP, 10 dM MgCl2, 5 dl dithiothreitol at 4 C overnight. The solution was then heated 10 minutes at 70 C to halt ligation.The linkers were cleaved byEcoRI digestion and the fragments, now with EcoRI ends were separated using 5 percent polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis hereinafter PAGE and the three largest fragments isolated from the gel by first staining with ethidium bromide, locating the fragments with ultraviolet light, and cutting from the gel the portions of interest. Each gel fragment, with 300 microliters O.lxTBE, was placed in a dialysis bag and subjected to electrophoresis at 100 v for one hour in O.lxTBE buffer TBE buffer contains 10.8 gm tris base, 5.5 gm boric acid, 0.09 gm DJa2EDTA in 1 liter H20 .The aqueous solution was collected from the dialysis bag, phenol extracted, chloroform extracted and made 0.2 M sodium chloride, and the DNA recovered in water after ethanol precipitation. The trp promoter operator containing gene with EcoRI sticky ends was identified in the procedure next described, which entails the insertion of fragments into a tetracycline sensitive plasmid which, upon promoter operator insertion, becomes tetracycline resistant. Plasmid pBRHl R.I. Rodriguez, et al., Nucleic Acids Research 6, 3267 3287 E1979 expresses ampicilin resistance and contains the gene for tetracycline resistance but, there being no associated promoter, does not express that resistance. The plasmid is accordingly tetracycline sensitive. By introducing a promoter operator system in the EcoRI site, the plasmid can be made tetracycline resistant. pBRH1 was digested with EcoRI and the enzyme removed by phenol extraction followed by chloroform extraction and recovered in water after ethanol precipitation. The resulting DNA molecule was, in separate reaction mixtures, combined with each of the three DNA fragments obtained above and ligated with T4 DNA ligase as previously described. The DNA present in the reaction mixture was used to transform competent E. coliK 12 strain 294 K. Backman et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.USA 73, 4174 4198 19763 by standard techniques V. Hershfield et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 71, 3455 3459 1974 and the bacteria plated on LB plates containing 20 g ml ampicillin and 5 g ml tetracycline. Several tetracycline resistant colonies were selected, plasmid DNA isolated and the presence of the desired fragment confirmed by restriction enzyne analysis. The resulting plasmid is designated pBRHtrp. An EcoRI and 3amHI digestion product of the viral genome of hepatitisB was obtained by conventional means and cloned into the EcoRI and RamHI sites of plasmid pGH6 D.V. Goeddel et al., Nature 281, 544 1979 to forum the plasmid pHS32. Plasmid pHS32 was cleaved with XbaI, phenol extracted, chlorofonil extracted and ethanol precipitated. It was then treated with 1 l E. coli polymerase I, Klenow fragment Boehringer tGannheim in 30 l polymerase buffer 50 rn4 potassium phosphate pH 7.4, 7n M1 tlgCl2, 1 mM ss mercaptoethanol containing 0.lmM dTTP and 0.1mM dCTP for 30 minutes at 0 C then 2 hr. at 37 C.This treatment causes 2 of the 4 nucleotides complementary to the 5 protruding end of the XbaI cleavage site to be filled in EMI9.1 Two nucleotides, dC and dT, were incorporated giving an end with two 5 protruding nucleotides. This linear residue of plasmid pHS32 after phenol and chloroform extraction and recovery in water after ethanol precipitation was cleaved with EcoRi. The large plasmid fragment was separated from the smaller EcoRI XbaI fragment by PAGE and isolated after electroelution. This DNA fragnent from pHS32 0.2 g , was ligated, under conditions similar to those described above, to the EcoRI Taq I fragment of the tryptophan operon 0.01 g , derived from pSRHtrp. In the process of ligating the fragment from pHS32 to the Eco RI TaqI fragment, as described above, the Taq I protruding end is ligated to the XbaI remaining protruding end even though it is not completely Watson Crick base paired EMI10.1 A portion of this ligation reaction mixture was transformed into E.coli 294 cells, heat treated and plated on LB plates containing ampicillin. Twenty four colonies were selected, grown in 3 ml LB media, and plasmid isolated. Six of these were found to have the XbaI site regenerated via E. coli catalyzed DNA repair and replication EMI10.2 These plasmids were also found to cleave both with EcoRI and HpaI and to give the expected restriction fragments. One plasmid, designated pTrp 14, was used for expression of heterologous polypeptides, as next discussed. The plasmid pHGH 107 D.V. Goeddel et al, Nature, 281, 544, C19793 contains a gene for human growth hormone made up of 23 amino acid codons produced from synthetic DNA fragments and 163 amino acid codons obtained from complementary DNA produced via reverse transcription of human growth hormone messenger RNA. This gene, though it lacks the codons of the pre sequence of human growth hormone, does contain an ATG translation initiation codon. The gene was isolated from 10 g pHGH 107 after treatment with EcoRI followed by E. coli polymerase I Klenow fragment and dTTP and dATP as described above. Following phenol and chloroform extraction and ethanol precipitation the plasmid was treated with BamHI. The human growth hormone HGH gene containing fragment was isolated by PAGE followed by electroelution. The resulting DNA fragment also contains the first 350 nucleotides of the tetracycline resistance structural gene, but lacks the tetracyline promoter operator system so that, when subsequently cloned into an expression plasmid, plasmids containing the insert can be located by the restoration of tetracycline resistance. Because the EcoRI end of the fragment has been filled in by the Klenow polymerase I procedure, the fragment has one blunt and one sticky end, ensuring proper orientation when later inserted into an expression plasmid. The expression plasmid pTrpl4 was next prepared to receive the HGH gene containing fragment prepared above. Thus, pTrpl4 was XbaI digested and the resulting sticky ends filled in with the Klenow polymerase I procedure employing dATP, dTTP, dGTP and dCTP. After phenol and chloroform extraction and ethanol precipitation the resulting DNA was treated with BamHI and the resulting large plasmid fragment isolated by PAGE and electroelution. The pTrpl4 derived fragment had one blunt and one sticky end, permitting recombination in proper orientation with the HGH gene containing fragment previously described. The HGH gene fragment and the pTrpl4 ssXba BamHI fragment were combined and ligated together under conditions similar to those described above. The filled in XbaI and EcoRI ends ligated together by blunt end ligation to recreate both the XbaI and the EcoRI site XbaI filled in EcoRI filled in HGH gene initiationEMI11.1 This construction also rye creates the tetracycline resistance gene.Since the plasmid pHGH 107 expresses tetracycline resistance from a promoter lying upstream from the HGH gene the lac promoter , this construction, designated pHCH 207, permits expression of the gene for tetracycline resistance under the control of the tryptophan promoter operator. Thus the ligation mixture was transformed into E.coli 294 and colonies selected on LB plates containing 5 pg ml tetracycline. Plasmid pHGH207 was Eco RI digested and the trp promoter containing a 300 b.p. Eco RI fragment recovered by PAGE followed by electroelution.The 300 b.p. Eco RI fragment contains the E. coli trp promoter, operator, and trp leader ribosone binding site but lacks anATG sequence for initiation of translation. This DNA fragment was cloned into the Eco RI site of pLe IF A. The trp fragment just referred to is an analog of the E. coli tryptophan operon from which the so called trp attenuator has been deleted, to controllably heighten expression levels. Expression plasmids containing the modified trp regulon can be grown to predetermined levels in nutrient media containing additive tryptophan in quantities sufficent to repress the promoter operator system, then be deprived of tryptophan so as to derepress the system and occasion the expression of the intended product. lore particularly, 250 g of plasmid pL31 were digested with Pst I and the 1000 b.p. insert isolated by gel electrophoresis on a 6 polyacrylamide gel. Approximately 40 g of insert was electroeluted from the gel and divided into 3 aliquots for further digestion a A 16 sample of this fragment was partially digested with 40 units of Bgl II for 45 at 370C and the reaction mixture purified on a 6 polyacrylamide gel. Approximately 2 g of the desired 670 b.p. fragment were recovered. b Another sample 8 py of the 1000 b.p. Pst I insert was restricted with Ava II and Bgl II. One g of the indicated 150 b.p.fragment was recovered after gel electrophoresis. c 16 g of the 1000 b.p. piece was treated with Sau 3a and Ava II. After electrophoresis on a 10 polyacrylamide gel, approximately 0.25 g 10 pmole of the 34 b.p. fragment was recovered. The two indicated deoxyoligonucleotides, 5 dAATTCATGTGT fragment 1 and 5 d GATCACACATG fragment 2 were synthesized by the phosphotriester procedure Maxam andGilbert, Methods Enzymol. 65, 499 560 1980 . Fragment 2 was phosphorylated as follows. 200 l N40 pmole of Y32P ATP Amersham, 5000 Ci mmole was dried down and resuspended in 30 l of 60 mM Tris HC1 pH8 , lords ligCl2, 15m 1 ss merceptoethanol, containing 100 pmoles of DNA fragment and 2 units of T4 polynucleotide kinase. After 15 minutes at 37 C, 1 pl of 10m 1 ATP was added and the reaction allowed to proceed another 15 minutes. The mixture was then heated at 70 C for 15 minutes, combined with 100 pmole of 5 OH fragment 1 and 10 pmole of the 34. b.p.Sau 3a Ava II fragment. Ligation was performed for 5 hours at 4 C in 50 l of 20mM Tris HCl pH7.5 10mM Mg Cl2, 10mM dithiothreitol, 0.5mMATP and 10 units T4 DNA ligase. The mixture was electrophoresed on a 6 polyacrylamide gel and the 45 b.p. product recovered by electroelution.860,000 Cerenkov cpm were recovered 0 ng, 1 pmole , combined with 0.5 tig 5 pmoles of the 150 b.p. Ava II Bgl II fragment and 1 g 2 pmoles of the 670 b.p. Bgl II Pst I fragment. The ligation was performed at 20 C for 16 hours using 20 units of T4 DNA ligase. The ligase was inactivated by heating to 65 C for 10 minutes. The mixture was then digested with Eco RI and Pst I to eliminate polymers of the gene. The mixture was purified by 6 percent polyacryla nide gel electrophoresis. 36,000 cpm 0.04 pmole, 20 ng of 865 b.p. product were isolated. One half lOng of this was ligated into pBR322 0.3 9 between the Eco RI and Pst I sites.Transformation of E. coli 294 gave70 tetracycline resistant, ampicillin sensitive tranformants. Plasmid DNA isolated from 18 of these transformants was digested with Eco RI andPst 1. 16 of the 18 plasmids had an Eco RI Pst I fragment 865 b.p. in length. One jig of one of these, pLe IF Al, was digested with Eco RI and ligated to a 300 b.p. Eco RI fragment 0.1 g containing the E. coli trp promoter and trp leader ribosome binding site, prepared as described above. Transformants containing the trp promoter were identified using a 32P trp probe in conjunction with the Grunstein Hogness colony screening procedure Grunstein et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 72, 3961 1975 . An asymetrically located Xba I site in the trp fragment allowed determination of recombinants in which the tUp promoter was oriented in the direction of the Le IF A gene. Extracts were prepared for IF assay as follows. One ml cultures were grown in L broth containing 5 g ml tetracycline to an A550 of about 1.0, then diluted into 25 ml of M9 media containing 5 g ml tetracycline. 10 ml samples were harvested by centrifugation when A550 reached 1.0 and cell pellets were suspended in 1 ml of 15 percent sucrose, 50 mM Tris HCl pH 8.0 , 50mM EDTA. One mg of lysozyme was added and, after 5 minutes at 0 C, cells were disrupted by sonication.The samples were centrifuged 10 minutes at 15,000 rpm in a Sorvall SM 24 rotor. Interferon activity in the supernatants was determined by comparison with Le IF standards by the cytopathic effect CPE inhibition assay. To determine the number of IF molecules per cell a Le IF specific activity of 4x108 units mg was used Rubinstein et al., Proc. Natl.Acad. Sci. USA 76, 640 1979 . Clone pLe IF A trp 25, in which the trp promoter was inserted in the desired orientation, gives high levels of activity as high as 2.5x108 units per liter . The IF produced by E. coli K 12 strain 294 pLe IF A trp 25 behaves like authentic human Le IF it is stable to treatmen at pH2 and is neutralized by rabbit anti human leukocyte antibodies. The interferon has an apparent molecular weight of approximately 20,000.Isolation of cDNAs for Additional Leukocyte Interferons DNA from the fully characterized Le IF A cDNA containing plasmid was excised with Pst I, isolated electrophoretically, and labelled by a published procedure Taylor et al., Biochem. Biophys. Acta. 442, 324 1976 with 32p. The resulting radioactively labelled DNA was used as a probe to screen additional E. coli 294 transformants by an in situ colony screening procedure, Grunstein et al., supra. Colonies were isolated which hybridized in varying amounts to the probe. Plasmid DNA from these colonies and the ten hybridizing colonies referred to above was isolated by Pst cutting and characterized by three different methods.First, these Pst fragments were characterized by their restriction endonuclease digestion patterns with the enzymes Bgl II, Pvu II, and Eco RI. This analysis allowed the classification of at least eight different types Le IF A,Le IF B, Le IF C, Le IF D, Le IF E, Le IF F, Le IF G and Le IF H , which approximates the location of various restriction cuts relative to the by now known presequence and coding sequence of Le IF A. One of these,Le IF D, is believed to be identical to that reported by Nagata et al.,Nature 284, 316 1980 . Secondly, certain of the DNAs were tested by a published hybridization selection assay, Cleveland et al., Cell 20, 95 1980 , for the ability to selectively remove Le IF FRNA from poly A containing KG l cell RNA. Le IF A, B, C and F were positive by this assay. Third, the latter Pst fragments were inserted in an expression plasmid, E. coli 294 transformed with the plasmid, and the fragments expressed. The expression products, believed to have been preinterferons, were all positive by CPE assay for interferon activity, albeit marginally active in the case of the Le IF F fragment. In addition to the foregoing, all of the Le IF types described have been sequenced.Second Mature Leukocyte Interferon The sequence of the isolated fragment comprising the gene for matureLe IF B shows the first fourteen nucleotides of types A and B to be identical. We accordingly proposed to isolate a fragment from pLe IF A25 bearing the trp promoter operator, ribosome binding site and the start of the Le IF A B gene, and combine this with the remaining portion of theB sequence in an expression plasmid. To obtain the approximately 950 b.p. Sau 3a to Pst I fragment from the sequence shown in Figure 7a several steps were necessary because of the presence of one or more intervening Sau 3a restriction sites, i.e. 1. Thetfollowing fragments were isolated a 110b b.p. from Sau 3a to Eco RI b 132 b.p. from Eco RI to Xba c 700 b.p. from Xba to Pst. 2. Fragments la and lob were ligated and cut with Xba and Bgl II to preclude self polymerization through Sau 3a and Xba end terminals the relevant Sau 3a site was within a Bgl II site Bgl II cuts to leave a Sau 3a sticky end . A 242 b.p. fragment was isolated. 3. The product of 2 and lc were ligated and cut with Pst I andBgl II, again to prevent self polymerization. An approximate 950 b.p.fragment, Sau 3a to Pst I of Figure 7a, was isolated. This fragment comprised that portion of the Le IF B gene not common to Le IF A. 4. An approximate 300 b.p. fragment Hind III to Sau 3a comprising the trp.promoter operator, ribosome binding site, ATG start signal and cysteine codon of Le IF A was isolated from pLe IF A25. 5. An approximately 3600 b.p. fragment Pst I to Hind III was isolated from pBr 322. This comprised the replicon and encoded tetracycline but not ampicillin resistance. 6. The fragments obtained in steps 3, 4 and 5 were triple ligated and the resulting plasmid transformed into E. coli K 12 strain 294. Transformants were lniniscreened, Birnboim et al., Nucleic AcidResearch 7, 1513 1979 , and plasmid samples were digested with Eco RI.Digests yielded three fragments characteristic of 1 The Eco RI Eco RI trp promoter fragment 2 The internal Eco RI to Eco RI fragment of pL4 and 3 protein trÅanslational start signal toEco RI fragment of pL4. In CPE assay, bacterial extracts from clones made in the foregoing fashion typically assay at about 10 x 106 units interferon activity per liter at Ag50 1. One representative clone prepared in this manner is 294 pLIF B trp 7. Further Mature Leukocyte Interferons Additional full length gene fragments that comprise other Le IF types may be tailored and placed in expression vehicles for expression as in the case of Le IF A. Complete sequencing by conventional means will reveal whether a restriction site lies sufficiently near the first amino acid codon of the mature interferon type as to permit convenient resort to the approach employing the elimination of the presequence by restriction cutting and replacement of codons for the N terminal amino acids lost in presequence elimination by ligation of a synthetic DNA fragment, as described above. Failing that, the procedure described inKleid et al., supra,may be employed.Briefly, this entails cleaving the presequence containing fragment precisely before the point at which the codon for the first amino acid of the mature polypeptide begins, by 1. converting the double stranded DNA to single stranded DNA in a region surrounding that point 2. hybridizing to the single stranded region formed in step 1 a complementary primer length of single stranded DNA, the 5 end of the primer lying opposite the nucleotide adjoining the intended cleavage site 3. restoring that portion of the second strand eliminated in step 1 which lies in the 3 direction from the primer by reaction with DNA polymerase in the presence of adenine, thymine, guanine and cytosine containing deoxynucleotide tr.phosphates and 4. digesting the remaining single stranded length of DNA which protrudes beyond the intended cleavage point. A short length of synthetic DNA terminating, at the 3 end of the coding strand, with the translation start signal ATG can then be ligated by, e.g., blunt end ligation to the resulting tailored gene for the mature interferons and the gene inserted into an expression plasmid and brought under the control of a promoter and its associated ribosome binding site. In a manner similar to that employed above, gene fragments encoding Le lF C and Le IF D were appropriately configured for direct bacterial expression. The expression strategy for these additional leukocyte interferons included, in each case, resort to the approximately 300 b.p.fragment Hind III to Sau 3a comprising the trp promoter operator, ribosome binding site, ATG start signal and cysteine codon of Le IF A from pLe IF A25. To this were combined gene fragments from the additional interferon genes encoding their respective amino acid sequences beyond the initial cysteine common to all. Each resulting plasmid was used to transform E. coli K 12 strain 294. Ligations to form the respective genes were as follows Isolate the following fragments from pLe IF C a 35 b.p. from Sau 3a to Sau 96 b 900 b.p. Sau 96 to PstI c Isolate an approximate 300 b.p. fragment Hind III Sau 3a from pLe IF A 25 as in part N 4 supra. d Isolate the approximately 3600 b.p. fragment of part N 5 supra.Construction 1 Ligate a and c . Cleave with 8gl II, Hind III and isolate the approximately 335 b.p. product. 2 Triple ligate l b d and transform E. coli with the resulting plasmid. A representative clone made in this manner is E. coli K 12 strain 294 pLe IF C trp 35. Le IF D Isolate from pLe IF D a 35 b.p. from Sau 3a to Ava II b . 150 b.p. from Ava II to Bgl II c approx. 700 b.p. from Bgl II to PstI Isolate from pLe IF A25 d 300 b.p. from Hind III to Sau 3a Isolate from PBr 322 e approx. 3600 b.p. from Hind III to Pst I Construction 1 ligate a b , cut with Bgl II and purify a 185 b.p. product 1 . 2 ligate l d , cut with Hind III, Bgl II, and purify the approx. 500 b.p. product 2 . 3 ligate 2 c e and transform E. coli with the resulting pl asmid. NC A representative c lone made in this manner is E. coli K 12 strain 294 pLeIF D trp 11. Le IF F The Le IF F containing fragment may be tailored for direct expression through reassembly made convenient by the complete homology of amino acids 1 13 of Le IF B and Le IF F. A trp promoter containing fragment a with appropriately configured ends is obtained from pHGH 207, described above, via Pst I and Xba I digestion followed by isolation of the ca. 1050 b.p. fragment. A second fragment b is obtained as the larger of the fragments resulting from Pst I and Bgl II digestion of the plasmid pi4KY 10, a derivative of pBR322 which contains a Bgl II site between the tetracycline resistance promoter and structural gene.Fragment a contains approximately half the gene encoding amplicillin resistance fragment b contains the remainder of that gene and the entire gene for tetracycline resistance save for the as sociated promoter. Fragments a and b are combined via T4 ligase and the product treated with Xba I and Bgl II to eliminate dimerization, forming a fragment c comprising the trp promoter operator and genes for tetracycline and ampicillin resistance. A fragment d of approximately 580 b.p. is obtained by Ava II andBgl II digestion of pLe IF F. This comprises codons for amino acids 14 166 of Le IF F. A fragment e 49 b.p. is obtained by Xba I and Ava II digestion of pLe IF B. Fragment e encodes amino acids 1 13 of Le IF F. Fragments c , d and e are triple ligated in the presence of T4 ligase. The cohesive ends of the respective fragments are such that the composite plasmid circularizes correctly, bringing the tetracycline resistance gene under the control of the trp promoter operator along with the gene for mature Le IF F, such that bacteria transformed with the desired plasmid may be selected on tetracycline contaning plates. A representative clone prepared in this manner is E. coli K 12 strain 294 pLeIF F trp 1. Le IF H The complete Le IF H gene may be configured for expression as a mature leukocyte interferon as follows 1. Plasmid pLe IF H is subjected to Hae II and Rsa I digestion with isolation of the 816 base pair fragment extending from the signal peptide amino acid 10 to the 3 noncoding region. 2. The fragment is denatured and subjected to repair synthesis withKlenow fragment, Klenow petal., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 65, 168 1970 , employing the synthetic deoxyribooligonucleotide primer 5 dATGTGT AAT CTG TCT. This general procedure is also described by Goeddel et al., U.S. Serial No. 190799, filed September 25, 1980. 3. The resulting product is cleaved with Sau 3a and a 452 base pair bp fragment representing amino acids 1 to 150 isolated. 4. Sau 3a and Pst I digestion of pLeIF H and isolation of the resulting 500 b.p. fragment yields a gene encoding amino acids 150 through the end of the coding sequence. 5. Fragments isolated in steps 3 and 4 are ligated to form a fragment EMI20.1 tb SEP 1 SEP 166 tb met SEP cys SEP asp SEP stop tb ATG SEP TGT SEP .. SEP t SEP SEP .. SEP . SEP GAT SEP TGA SEP . SEP . SEP . SEP . SEP SEP Pst SEP I tb SEP Sau SEP 3a tb encoding the 166 amino acids of Le IF H. 6. pLeIF A trp 25 is digested with Xba I, blunt ended with DNA polymerase I and the product digested with Pst I. The large resulting fragment may be isolated and ligated with the product of step 5 to form an expression plasmid capable, upon transformation of E. Coli K i2 strain 294 or other host bacteria, of expressing mature Le IF H. LeIF I The phage A Charon 4A recombinant library of the human genome constructed by Lawn et al., Cell 15, 1157 1978 , was screened for leukocyte interferon genes by procedures described by Lawn et al., supra, and tlaniatis et al., Cell 15, 687 1978 . A radioactive LeIF probe derived from the cDNA clone LeIF A Goeddel et al., Nature 287, 411 1980 , was used to screen approximately 500,000 plaques. Six LeIF genome clones were obtained in this screening. Following rescreening and plaque purification, one of these clones, xHLeIF2, was selected for further analysis. Using the method described above, other probes can be used to advantage to isolate additional LeIF clones from the human genome.These, in turn, can be employed to produce additional leukocyte interferon proteins in accordance with this invention. 1. The 2000 base pair Eco RI fragment of the genomic clone xHLeIF2 was subcloned into per325 at the Eco RI site. The resulting plasmidLeIF I was cleaved with Eco RI and the 2000 base pair fragment isolated.The deoxyoligonucleotide dAATTCTGCAG an Eco RI Pst I convertor was ligated to the 2000 base pair Eco RI fragment and the resulting product cleaved with Pst I to give a 2000 base pair fragment containing Pst I ends. This was cleaved wtih Sau 96 and a 1100 base pair fragment isolated which has one Pst I end and one Sau 96 end. 2. The plasmid pLeIF C trp 35 was digested with Pst I and Xba I.The large fragment was isolated. 3. The small Xba I Pst I fragment from pLeIF C trp 35 was digested with Xba I and Sau 96. A 40 base pair Xba I Sau 96 fragment was isolated. 4. The fragments isolated in steps 1 , 2 and 3 were ligated to form the expression plasmid pLeIF I trp LeIF J 1. The plasmid pLeIF J contains a 3.8 kilobase Hind III fragment of human genomic DNA which includes the LeIF J gene sequence. A 760 base pair Dde I Rsa I fragment was isolated from this plasmid. 2. The plasmid pLeIF 5 trp 7 was cleaved with Hind III and Dde. I and a 340 bp Hind III Dde I fragment isolated. 3. The plasmid pBR322 was cleaved with Pst I, blunt ended by incubation with DNA Pol I Klenow fragment , then digested with HindIII. The large N3600 bp fragment was isolated. 4. Fragments isolated in steps 1 , 2 and 3 were ligated to form the expression plasmid pLeIF J trp 1. The methods and materials employed in the following constructions were as in the foregoing description.The following Table 1 provides the details for particular constructions of hybrid LeIF plasmids hereof TABLE 1Total Expression Front Portion Back Portion ResultantLeIF Amino Plasmid ExpressionHybrid Acids Vector Fragment Amino Acids Fragment Amino Acids PlasmidAD 165 a Xba I Pvu II 1 91 Pvu II Pst I 93 166 pLeIF AD of pLeIF A trp 25 of pLeIF D trp II trp Pvu II 285 bp 550 bp DA 166 a Xba I Pvu II 1 92 Pvu II Pst I 92 165 pLeIF DA of pLeIF D trp II of pLeIF A trp 25 trp Pvu II 288 bp 550 bp AD 165 Bgl II Pst I large 1 62 Bgl II Pst I 64 166 pLeIF AD fragment of pLeIF A of pLeIF D trp 11 trp Bgl II trp 25 600 bp DA 166 Bgl II Pst I large 1 63 Bgl II partial 63 165 pLeIF DA fragment pLeIF D Pst I of pLeIF A trp Bgl II trp 11 trp 25 700 bp AB 165 a Xba I Pvu II of LeIF A 1 91 Pvu II partial PstI 93 166 pLeIF AB trp Pvu II trp 25 285 bp of pLeIF B trp 7 750 bp AF 165 a Xba I Pvu II of LeIF A 1 91 Pvu II Pst I 93 166 pLeIF AF trp Pvu II trp 25 285 bp of pLeIF F trp 1 700 bp AG 165 a Xba I Pvu II of LeIF A 1 91 Pvu II Pst I 93 166 pLeIF AG trp Pvu II trp 25 285 bp of pLeIF G 750 bp AI 165 a Xba I Bgl II partial 1 150 Bgl II Pst I 151 165 pLeIF AI trp Bgl II of pLeIF A trp 25 of LeIF I trp I 455 bp 650 bp BA 166 b Hind III Pvu II of pLeIF 1 92 Pvu II Pst I of 92 165 pLeIF BA trp Pvu II B trp 7 630 bp pLeIF A trp 25 550 bp BD 166 b Hind III Pvu II of pLeIF 1 92 Pvu II Pst I of 93 166 pLeIF BD trp Pvu II B trp 7 630 bp pLeIF D trp 11 550 bp Total Expression Front Portion Back Portion ResultantLeIF Amino Plasmid ExpressionHybrid Acids Vector Fragment Amino Acids Fragment Amino Acids PlasmidBF 166 b Hind III Pvu II of pLeIF 1 92 Pvu II Pst I of 93 166 pLeIF BF trp Pvu II B trp 7 630 bp pLeIF F trp 1 700 bp BG 166 b Hind III Pvu II of pLeIF 1 92 Pvu II Pst I of pLeIF G 93 166 pLeIF BG trp Pvu II B trp 7 630 bp 750 bp DB 166 a Xba I Pvu II of pLeIF 1 92 Pvu II partial Pst I of pLeIF B 93 166 pLeIF DB trp Pvu II D trp 11 288 bp trp 7 750 bp DF 166 a Xba I Pvu II of pLeIF 1 92 Pvu II Pst I of pLeIF F trp I 93 166 pLeIF DF trp Pvu II D trp 11 288 bp 700 bp DG 166 a Xba I Pvu II of pLeIF 1 92 Pvu II Pst I of pLeIF G 93 166 pLeIF DG trp Pvu II D trp 11 288 bp 750 bp FA 166 a Xba I Pvu II of 1 92 Pvu II Pst I of pLeIF A trp 25 92 165 pLeIF FA trp Pvu II pLeIF F trp 1 550 bp 288 bp FB 166 a Xba I Pvu II of 1 92 Pvu II partial Pst I of pLeIF B 93 166 pLeIF FB trp Pvu II pLeIF F trp 1 trp 7 750 bp 288 bp FD 166 a Xba I Pvu II of 1 92 Pvu II Pst I from pLeIF D trp 11 93 166 pLeIF FD trp Pvu II pLeIF F trp 1 550 bp 288 bp FG 166 a Xba I Pvu II of 1 92 Pvu II Pst I from pLeIF G 93 166 pLeIF FG trp Pvu II pLeIF F trp 1 750 bp 288 bp IA 166 a Xba I Bgl II of 1 151 Bgl II Pst I of pLeIF A 152 166 pLeIF IA trp Bgl II pLeIF I trp 1 trp 25 430 bp 458 bp excluding N terminal methionine a large 3900 bp fragment of Xba I to Pst I digest of pLeIF A trp 25.b large 3600 bp fragment of Hind III to Pst I digest of pBR322. With further reference to Table I, the first four described hybridLeIFs have been produced from two LeIF expression plasmids. A Bgl II site common to LeIF A and D cDAs has been used to construct an expression plasmid pLeIF trp AD Bgl II which codes for the 63 amino terminal amino acids of LeIF A and the 102 carboxy terminal amino acids of LeIF D. THe same site was utilized in the construction of an expression plasmid pLeIF trp DA Bgl II which codes for 64 amino terminal amino acids of LeIF D and 102 carboxy terminal amino acids ofLeIF A.The Pvu II site has been used in the construction of two other hybrid interferon expression plasmids 91 amino terminal amino acids ofA with 74 carboxy terminal amino acids of D pLeIF trp AD Pvu II and 92 amino terminal amino acids of LeIF D with 74 carboxy terminal amino acids of LeIF A pLeIF trp DA Pvu II .In summary, for pLeIF AD trp Pvu II The large 3900 bp fragment of an Xba I andPst I digest of pLeIF A trp 25 was ligated with a 285 bp Xba I Pvu II fragment of pLeIF A tro 25 and an approximately 550 bp Pvu II Pst I fragment of pLeIF D trp 11 pLeIF DA trp Pvu II The large 3900 bp fragment of an Xba I and Pst I digest of pLeIF A trp 25 was ligated with a 288 bp Xba I Pvu II fragment of pLeIF D trp 11 and an approximately 550 bp Pvu II Pst I fragment of pLeIF A trp 25 pLeIF AD trp Bgl II The large fragment from a Bgl II, Pst I digest of pLeIF A trp 25 was ligated with a 600 bp Bgl II Pst I fragment from pLeIF D trp 11 and pLeIF DA trp Bgl II The large fragment from a Bgl II and Pst I digest of pLeIF D trp 11 was ligated to an approximately 700 bp fragment obtained by Pst I cleavage of pLeIF A trp 25 followed by partial 8g1 II digestion. In the fifth depicted hybrid pLeIF AB trp Pvu II The large 3900 bp fragment of an Xba I andPst I digest of pLeIF A trp.25 was ligated with a 285 bp Xba I Pvu II fragment of pLeIF A trp 25 and an approximately 750 bp Pvu II partial Pst I fragment of pLeIF B trp 7. In like manner, the other constructions depicted in Table I are so defined. As a further example, in the construction of a LeIF C and orLeIF H portion containing hybrid, one can take advantage of common Bbv I sites occurring at about nucleotide 294 i.e., GCTGC of the gene sequences. In like manner, plasmids suitable for the microbial expression of other novel hybrid leukocyte interferons may be formed by appropriate manipulation of double stranded DNA encoding all or portions of the amino acid sequences of natural occurring leukocyte interferons. Thus, a first double stranded DNA fragment is selected which encodes the amino terminal of a first, naturally occurring leukocyte interferon amino acid sequence and, proceeding therefrom in the 3 direction, a substantial portion of the amino acid sequence thereof. The fragment comprises a restriction endonuclease cleavage site positioned adjacent codons for amino acid n of the first leukocyte interferon, n amino acids constituting a substantial portion of the amino acid sequence of the first interferon.Cleavage with the restriction endonuclease yields a fragment comprising the amino terminal of the first interferon and codons for approximately n amino acids. A second fragment comprising all or a portion of the codons for the amino acid sequence of a second, different leukocyte interferon is selected, the fragment comprising a cleavage site for an identical restriction endonuclease positioned adjacent codons for that amino acid of the second interferon whose amino acid number proceeding from the amino terminal of the second interferon is approximately 166 n.Cleavage of the second fragment with that restriction endonuclease yields a product complementary to the n terminal portion of the digestion product of the first fragment, such that the digestion product of the second can be ligated to that of the first, reforming the restriction endonuclease recognition site and reconstituting the codon for amino acid n of the first interferon, where lost in the initial digestion.The product of the restriction endonuclease digestion of the second fragment preferably proceeds from the end resulting from cleavage in the 3 direction through nucleotides encoding the carboxy terminal of the second leukocyte interferon. x Alternatively, hybrids containing substantial portions of the amino acid sequences of more than two naturally occurring leukocyte interferons may be formed, in which event, for example, the second fragment mentioned above is additionally chosen to contain a second restriction endonuclease site downstream from the first, the second site being identical to a similarly positioned site within a fragment encoding the carboxy terminal portion of a third leukocyte interferon, etc.In the example referred to, the products of successive restriction endonuclease operations may be triple ligated to form a hybrid gene encoding the amino terminal portion of a first interferon, the mid range amino acid sequence of the second and the carboxy terminal portion of the third, or, in another variation of the first, where the first and third interferons are the same , Preferably, the first fragment mentioned above is derived from an expression plasmid, i.e., one in which codons for the amino terminal portion of the first leukocyte interferon are preceded by an ATG or other translation initiation codon and a promoter or promoter operator system.As a result, the end product of the manipulative operations described above will be a plasmid capablevof expressing the polypeptide encoded by the hybrid gene in bacteria or other microbial organisms transformed with the plasmid. Other means of configuring the hybrid gene for microbial expression will be apparent to those skilled in the art. In preferred embodiments of the invention, the hybrid genes encode a novel leukocyte interferon amino acid sequence approximating 165 166 amino acids constituting a conjugate of substantial amino acid sequences drawn from two or more different leukocyte interferons selected from the group consisting of LeIF A, LeIF B, LeIF C, LeIF D, LeIF E, LeIF F, LeIFG, and LeIF H as depicted in Figure 3. Most preferably, the novel leukocyte interferons encoded by the hybrid genes comprise the amino acids specified and positioned as indicated in the sequence All ofFigure 3. The expression products of plasmids formed according to the invention may be tested for antiviral activity in conventional manner, as in the biological activity determinations next described. DEMONSTRATION OF ANTIVIRAL ACTIVITY E. coli K 12 strain 294 was conventionally transformed with, independently, the plasmids pLeIF trp A 25, pLeIF trp D, pLeIF trp A D Bgl II and pLeIF trp D A Bgl II . The transformants were separately grown up in 5 ml cultures in L broth containing 5 mg ml tetracycline to an A550 of about 1.0, then diluted into one liter of M9 media containing 5 gg ml tetracycline. Cells were harvested when A550 reached 1.0 and cell pellets suspended in 10 ml of 15 percent sucrose, 50 mM tris HCl pH 8.0 , 50 mil EDTA. 10 mg of lysozyme were added and, after 5 minutes at 0 C, cells were disrupted by sonication. The samples were centrifuged 10 minutes at 15,000 rpm in a Sorvall SM 24 rotor.Interferon activity in the supernatants was subjected to test for antiviral activity. The yields per liter of culture of these interferons, titrated on a human cell line WISH are shown in Table 2 from which it is apparent that LeIF MD activity is produced in greater amount than the other interferons. This difference could be due to greater intrinsic activity of the LeIF WO or to greater yield in terms of mg protein of this interferon. Because the genetic link up was identical for all these interferons it seems most probable that LeIF A D essentially has greater activity than the other interferons. Table 2 YIELD OF LEUKOCYTE INTERFERONS FROM SHAKING FLASK CULTURES OF E. COLI Type interferon Activity Yield Liter Units on WISH A 8x107 D 5x106 AD Bgl II 2x108 DA Bgl II 1x106 assayed by inhibition of cytopathic effect on WISH cells with VSV as challenge. The potency of the various interferons in a range of mammalian cell lines was determined human, WISH African green monkey, VERO hamster fibroblast, BHK rabbit kidney cells, RK 13 mouse L 929 and bovine kidney, MDBK cells . In order to compare the relative activity of the interferons their activity on various cells was calculated relative to their activity on WISH cells taken as 100 . The results in Table 3 show that LeIF A D has very high activity in VERO and L 929 cells whereasLeIF D A has low activity in these cell lines.These results indicate that the combination of the N terminal portion of LeIF A and theC terminal portion of LeIF D within one molecule LeIF A D confers to the hybrid protein particular potency which is manifest in several mammalian species. Moreover, these properties are not simply the summation of the properties of the parent interferons. This is clearly seen in the case of activity on L 929 cells Table.3 in which case neither a mixture of LeIF A and LeIF D nor the other hybrid, LeIF D A, has significant activity. Table 3 TITRATION OF VARIOUS LEUKOCYTE INTERFERONS IN CELL LINES FROM VARIOUS MAMMALIAN SPECIES Leukocyte interferons Cell line A D A D D A A D Buffy coat WISH 100 100 100 100 100 100 VERO 250 75 1,670 20 200 200 BHK 400 200 833 2,000 400 20 RK 13 12 500 6 N.D. N.D. 120 L 929 150 5 3,300 2 10 0.1 Interferons tested against VSV infection of the different cell lines. Activities expressed as percentage of activity observed in WISH cells. The activity of LeIF AID against other viruses was also examined.The data in Figure 5 show antiviral effects against EMC virus infection of L cells and the data in Figure 6 shows effects against VSV infection of L cells. It is clear from these data that the greater activity of LeIF A D is not confined to one virus VSV and its greater activity is likely to be a general property against many viruses. Natural human buffy coat interferon preparations have no effect against mouse cells see Table 2 . The activity of teIF A D against EMC virus infection of CD 1 mice was therefore examined. The results in Figure 7 show thatLeIF A D is extremely potent against lethal EMC virus infection andLeIF A also has antiviral activity, as is to be expected from the activity in cell lines Table 2 .The data in Figure 7 result from treatments i.p. 3 hrs. before infection. Dosages of LeIF A D and LeIF A are as titrated on WISH. Lethal Et1C virus infection of hamsters is also affected by LeIF AtD and LeIF A Figure 8 , the former being the most effective, and buffy coat interferon shows only a small and statistically insignificant effect. In the case of Fig. 8, all interferons were given i.p. 3 hrs.before infection at a dose of 5xlo5yu3gkg titrated on WISH cells. These results indicate that the pronounced antiviral effects ofLeIF A D in a range of mammalian species is not confined to cell cultures but is also observed in lethal virus infections. EMC virus can be considered a model system, a demonstration of antiviral effect against which may be predictive of antiviral effect against the represented family of viruses, e.g., the picornavirus family of which foot and mouth disease and polio are members. VSY virus can be considered a model system, a demonstration of antiviral effect against which may be predictive of anti viral effect against the represented family of viruses, e.g., the rhabdovirus family of which rabies is an important member. Table 4 tabulates the activities of various of the LeIF hydrids hereof on WISH and DBK cells and the activity ratios thereof Table 4 Units liter culture Units liter culture Ratio ActivitiesLeIF Hybrid PvuII WISH Cells MDBK Cells WISH MDB AB 2.4 x 108 4 x 107 6 AD 1.2 x 108 2 x 107 6 AF 6 x 107 1 x 107 6 AG 4 x 107 1.5 x 107 2.7 AI 3.2 x 107 1.2 x 10 2.7 BA 1.5 x 107 1 x 107 1.5 BD 6 x 107 1.5 x 10 4 BF 1 x 106 3.5 x 105 0.3 BG 2 x 107 6 x 107 0.3 DA 3 x 106 1.2 x 108 0.025 DB 2 x 106 5 x 107 0.04 DF 2 x 105 4 x 106 0.05 DG DG 2 x 105 1.5 x 107 0.014 FA 2 x 105 6 x 107 0.003 FB 2 x 1o6 8 x 107 0.025 FD 1 x 107 2 x 107 0.5 FG 1 x 106 4 x 107 0.025 IA 2.4 x 106 6 x 107 0.04 A 8 x 107 1.2 x 108 0.7 B 8 x 107 4 x 108 0.2 C 2 x 107 1.5 x 107 1.3 5 5 x 106 2.5 x 107 0.2 F 2x 107 2 x 108 0.1 I 1.6 x 107 1.2 x 107 1.3 For comparison purposes Parenteral Administration The hybrid leukocyte interferons hereof may be parenterally administered to subjects requiring antitumor, or anti viral treatment, and to those exhibiting immunosuppressive conditions. Dosage and dose rate may parallel that currently in use in clinical investisations of human derived materials, e.g., about 1 10 x 106 units daily, and in the case of materials of purity greater than 1 percent, likely up to, e.g., 5 x 10 units daily.Preliminary indications in the monkey study described above suggest that dosages of bacterially obtained Le IF could be significantly elevated for greater effect owing to the essential absence of human proteins other thanLe IF, which proteins in leuRocyte derived materials may act as pyrogens, exhibiting adverse effects, e.g., malaise, temperature elevation, etc. As one example of an appropriate dosage form for essentially homogeneous bacterial Le IF in parenteral form applicable herein mutatis mutandis, 3 mg.Le IF of specific activity of, say, 2 x 108 U mg may be dissolved in 25 ml.5 N serum albumin human USP, the solution passed through a bacteriological filter and the filtered solution aseptically subdivided into 100 vials, each containing 6 x 106 units pure interferon suitable for parenteral administration. The vials are preferably stored in the cold 20 C prior to use. The compounds of the present invention can be fonnulated according to known methods to prepare pharmaceutically useful compositions, whereby the polypeptide hereof is combined in admixture with a phannaceutically acceptable carrier vehicle. Suitable vehicles and their formulation are described inRemington s Pharmaceutical Sciences by E.W. Martin, which is hereby incorporated by reference. Such compositions will contain an effective amount of the interferon protein hereof together with a suitable amount of vehicle in order to prepare pharmaceutically acceptable compositions suitabte for effective administration to the host.