# Emulsion paint and method of painting.

## Abstract
An emulsion paint for use with a pressurised ap plicator, comprising film forming resin together with pig ment and or extender and other conventional paint in gredients in an aqueous medium, has an efflux time viscosity, measured as the time required to pump 100 ml through a tube of internal diameter 5 mm and length about 1.4 m under conditions defined herein

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An emulsion paint for use with a pressurised applicator, comprising film forming resin together with pigment and or extender in an aqueous medium, and having an efflux time viscosity, measured as the time required to pump 100 ml through a tube of internal diameter 5 mm and length about 1.4 m under conditions defined herein EMI25.1 tb SEP Temp. SEP Pressure SEP Pretreatment SEP Permitted SEP efflux tb SEP time SEP tb SEP SEP SEP KPa SEP seconds tb SEP 20 SEP 2 SEP 69 SEP Storage SEP About SEP 40 SEP to tb SEP overnight SEP about SEP 100 tb SEP 5 SEP SEP 69 SEP SEP Not SEP more SEP than tb SEP about SEP 120 tb SEP 30 SEP 69 SEP SEP Not SEP less SEP than tb SEP about SEP 35 tb 20 SEP 62 SEP SEP Not SEP more SEP than tb SEP about SEP 120 tb SEP 20 SEP 103 SEP SEP SEP Not SEP less SEP than tb SEP about SEP 20 tb SEP 20 SEP 69 SEP Storage SEP for SEP About SEP 40 SEP to tb 1 SEP ss SEP 3 SEP months SEP about SEP 100 tb SEP 20 SEP . SEP SEP 69 SEP 7 SEP freeze SEP About SEP 40 SEP to tb SEP thaw SEP cycles SEP about SEP 100 tb Gloss paints tested at 10 C 2. An emulsion paint as claimed in claim 1, which is a matt or silk paint having an efflux time viscosity at 200C and 69 kPa of about 50 to about 70 seconds. 3. An emulsion paint as claimed in claim 1, which is a gloss paint or primer having an efflux time viscosity at 20 C and 69 kPa of about 70 to about 100 seconds. 4. An emulsion paint as claimed in claim 1, wherein the afflux time viscosity at 20 C and 69 kPa is about 40 to about 100 seconds after storage for 12 months. 5. An emulsion paint as claimed in claim 1, which is a matt or silk paint or primer having a high shear viscosity, measured at 250C and a shear rate of 10000 sec , of about 0.2 to about 1.5 poise. 6. An emulsion paint as claimed in claim 1, which is a gloss paint having a high shear viscosity, measured at 25 0C l and a shear rate of 10000 sec , of about 0.4 to about 2.5 poise. 7. An emulsion paint as claimed in claim 1, which is a matt paint having a opacity, measured as contrast ratio, of at least 90 8. An emulsion paint as claimed in claim 1, which is a silk or gloss paint having an opacity measured as contrast ratio, of at least 80 . 9. An emulsion paint as claimed in any one of claim 1 to 8, wherein there are no particles present greater than 0.3mm in size. 10. A method of applying paint by means of a pressurised applicator, characterized in that the paint is as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 9.

## Description
EMULSION PAIRT AND METHOD OF PAINTING. This invention relates to ar emulsion paint formulated tor use with a pressurised applicator. OurPatent Application PCT GB 79 00131 describes and claims an applicator in which paint is fed from a container by means of pressurised gas along a flexible tube to an applicator, for Examples a brush, pad or roller. Ordinary commercially available paints are not very suitable cor use in such applicators. For example, solvent based paints tend to attack valves and glands of the pressurising system. Water based paints tend to be too thick to flow through the flexible tube to the applicator or, if diluted with water to avoid this difficulty, to be too thin for effective painting by the applicator, and to have poor covering power. The present invention provides an emulsion paint for use with a pressurised applicator, comprising film forming resin together with pigment and or extender in an aqueous medium, and having an efflux time viscosity, measured as the time required to pump 100 ml through a tube of internal diameter 5 mm and length about 1.4 m under conditions defined herein EMI1.1 Temperature SEP Pressure SEP Pre SEP Permitted SEP efflux SEP time. tb SEP treatment tb SEP C SEP kPa SEP seconds tb 20 SEP 69 SEP Storage SEP about SEP 40 SEP to SEP about SEP 100 tb SEP overnight tb 5 SEP 69 SEP SEP not SEP more SEP than SEP about SEP 120 tb 30 SEP 69 SEP SEP SEP not SEP less SEP than SEP about SEP 35 tb 20 SEP 62 SEP SEP not SEP more SEP than SEP about SEP 120 tb SEP 20 SEP 103 SEP SEP not SEP less SEP than SEP about SEP 20 tb SEP 20 SEP 60 SEP Storage SEP for tb about SEP 40 SEP to SEP about SEP 100 tb 3 SEP months tb 20 SEP 69 SEP 7 SEP Freeze tb SEP about SEP 40 SEP to SEP about SEP 100 tb thaw SEP cycles tb Closs paintstested at 10 C The invention also provides a method of applying paint by means of a pressurised applicator, character ized in that the paint is as defined above. In conventional painting, the amount of paint picked up on the brush or other applicator is determined by the viscosity measured at low or zero rate of shear, and this type of viscosity is often referred to as low shear viscosity, structure, or structural viscosity. A special embodiment of this type of structure can be seen in joints Intended for the do it yourself market which are know as non drip paints, where a very high structure or gel strength is required to get high brush loading and freedom from drips.Other paints, particularly gloss paints based on solutions of alkyd resin in organic solvent, are formulated to have low str.ucttlr l viscosity such paints are said to show Newtonian viscosity behaviour because their viscosities at high and low rates of shear are approximately the same. One of the disadvantages of paints exhibiting Newtonian behaviour is that on storage the paint will often separate into distinct layers, and in extreme cases a hard settlement will form which is difficult to re incorporate before usage. This separation is caused by the high specific gravity of the pigment used in paints to provide opacity and colour, which under the influence of gravity will sink to the bottom of a container. For paint that is to be applied by a pressurised gas applicator, the problems of brush loading and dripping are minimised. Also, paints with high structural viscosity should not flow through a flexible tube from the container to the applicator. The invention is therefore concerned with paints which exhibit substantially Newtonian vIscosity but without the disadvantages of known paints of Newtonian characteristics. We have tried several standard tests of low shcar viscosity, but find that none is reai.ly successful at predicting which paints will, or will not, work in our pressurised applicator. So we have devised our own test for low shear viscosity, called efflux time viscosity. As indicated above, it is essential that paints according to this invention have efflux time viscosities etv , measured under a variety of temperatllre and pressure conditions and after different pretreatments, within in certain limits. The method of measuring etv is described below just before the Examples with reference to the accompanying drawing which is a diagram of the apparatus used. At 200C and 69kPa pressure, the paint has an etv of from about 40 to about lOO secs. Matt and silk paints have an etv preferably from about 50 to about 70 secs, since an etv in this range provides an adequate flow of paint for even the fastest painter, while a typical painter working at average speed will have the on off button of the applicator depressed for about half the time. In the case of primers and gloss paints, where smaller areas are painted, an etv of from about 70 to about 100 sects. is preferred. It is necessary that the paint should have an etv in this range after storage for three months, preferably six months, and desirably twelve months. It is also necessary that the paint should have an etv in this range after being subjected to seven freeze thaw cycles. The temperature of the paint in use may vary. It is necessary that the paint should be usable at 50C matt, silk or primer and 10 C gloss or 30 C matt, silk, gloss or primer , and therefore necessary that the eLv s at these temperatures and 69 kPa pressure be neither more than about 120 seconds nor less than about 35 seconds respectively. Gloss emulsion paints are formulated on hard polymers to avoid sticking of doors and window frames, and this imposes a restriction on their r use at low temperatures due to their relatively high film forming temperature.It is usual to specify a minimum application temperature of 100C for gloss paints. The pressure of the applicator may varv about its intended value of 69 kPa. It is necessary that the paint should be usable at pressure from 62 kPa to 103 kPa, and therefore necessary that the etv s at these pressures and 200C be neither more than about 120 seconds nor less than about 20 seconds respectively. The high shear viscosity determines the ease with which the paint can be spread over the surface to which it is applied. men the high shear viscosity is too low, the paint is too easy to spread and a thin coating results giving poor covering power and minimal protection to the surface. When the high shear viscosity is too high, the paint is difficult to spread and results in an uneven finish with the possibility cf sags or runs, wrinkling, and differential colour formation occurring. High shear viscosity is generally in the range of about 0.2 to about 1.5 poise, preferably 0.4 to 1.0 poise, for matt and silic paints and primers, and in the range of about 0.4 to about 2.5 poise, preferably 0.7 to 1.5 poise, for gloss paints. measured at 250C 1 and a shear rate of i0000 sec . The effect of different ambient temperatures on highwshea.r viscosity of emulsion paint tends to be self compensating. Thus at high temperatu i es which might. cause premature drying and resultant difficulty in spreading the paint on the surface, the paint tends to become thinner and thus osier to spread.Similarly a reverse effect is noted at low temperatures A disadvantage of diluted conventional paint when used through the pressurised applicator is that blocking tends to occur due to the bittiness of the paint. Over sized particles tend to collect particularly in the on off valve of the applicator handle, and also tend to clog the fine tubes used in the construction of the brush or clog the synthetic sponge used in the construction of the pad and the roller. When blockages occur paint flow is severely restricted. The paints of this invention may be therefore filtered through a 50 mesh British Standard sieve, preferably an 80 mesh British Standard sieve i.e.they contain no particles greater than 0.3 mm, preferably no particles greater than 0.2 mm, in size. . An important characteristic of paints, other than primers, is opacity. The paints of this invention preferably have an opacity, measured as contrast ratio, of affi least 90 for matt paints and at least 80 for silk and gloss paints. The opacity of primer paint is not important. Many cotrimercially available emulsion paints are too thick to be used with a pressurised applicator.They can often be made usable under some circumstances by dilution with water, but only at the expense of their opacity. The formulation of silk and glossy emulsion paints gives rise to somewhat different problems to those involved in the formulation of matt emulsion paints. Gloss values may be measured using gloss meters meeting specification ASDI D 523 78. For the purposes of this invention, we define Glossy emulsion having a 60 ASTM gloss above 60. Silk emulsion having a 60 ASTM gloss between 20 and 60. Matt emulsion having a 60 ASTM gloss less than 20. Conventional materials can generally be used in formulating the paints of this invention, but optimum proportions are somewhat different to those for conventional paints. Various paint ingredients are discussed in the following paragraphs. 1. Pi Bents and Extenders. All normal grades of opacifying and colouring pigments may be used at normal levels, but care is required in the selection of extenders.In particular, china clay and calcined china clay have been found to give rise to excessively high efflux time viscosities. For this reason calcined clay should be kept below about 20 of the weight of the paint. Uncalcined clay has the further undesirable property of causing the paint to structure on storage the proportion of uncalcined clay should be kept below 10 by weight of the paint. Light or pastel coloured paints can be made by tinting white formulations, examples of which are set out below, using concentrated dispersions of coloured pigments. For medium or dark colou paints, e.g. those with a light reflectance value of less than 70 , it may be preferable te reduce the levels of costly titanium dioxide and other opacifying and colouring pigments. Titanium dioxide has the property of increasing, to a minor extent, the low shear viscosity of tie paint.This property, which does not appear to be shared by other pigments, needs to be borne in mind when changing the formulation of a paint by addition or removal of titanium dioxide. 2. Pigment Dispersjng Au,ents. In order to ensure that the paint remains free flowing, it is normally necessary to incorporate a pigment dispersing agent. These agents are exemplified by chemicals showing specific surface activity and adsorption on to pigment surfaces such as polyphosphates, pyrophosphates, low molecular weight water soluble polyacrylate and polymethacrylate salts and copolymers thereof, wetting agents produced by sulphonation, and phosphate ester derivatives. The optimum proportion of such pigment dispersing agent in a paint according to the present invention is likely to lie in the range 0.3 to 1.5 by weight on the weight of the pigment, and to be somewhat higher than the optimum proportion in conventional emulsion paints. 3. Polymer Emulsion. The types of polymer emulsion contemplated according to this invention are those normally used by the paint industry, e.g. copolymers and homopolymers of vinyl acetate, vinyl propionate, vinyl versatate, acrylic acid esters, methacrylic acid esters, maleic acid esters, vinyl chloride, vinylidene chloride, ethylene, and other plasticising olef ins. Polymer emulsions are usually classified according to the method of stabilising the polymer dispersion in water, and the two main types may be distinguished. In one case the emulsion particles are stabilised by using a surface active agent and these are referred to as surfactant stabilised emulsions.In the other case, stability is obtained not only by the addition of surface active agents but also by the inclusion of so called protective colloids, such as substituted water soluble celluloses, e.g. low viscosity hydroxyethyl cellulose, and these are referred to as colloid stabilised emulsions. Some commercially available emulsions contain particles which are stabilised by a mixture of surfactants and colloids. Emulsions which are partly or wholly surfactant stabilised give rise to more stable paints and are accordingly preferred in the present invention. The suitability of a polymer emulsion for use in paints according to the present invention may be determined by adjusting the solids content to 45 by weight of nonvolatile matter, and then measuring the viscosity by means of a Brookfield Viscometer at 250C with spindl.e number 2 at 12 r.p.m. Polymer emulsions having a viscosity below 0.5 poise, measured under these conditions, can be used with confidence. Polymer emulsions having a viscosity in the range of 0.5 to 4.0 poise can be used, though some care in formulating the paint may be necessary. Polymer emulsions having viscosities in the range 4 15 poise are unlikely to be usable in matt or silk finish emulsion paints, though they may be suitable for use in gloss finish emulsion paints. 4. Thickeners. Emulsion paints generally require the addition of thickeners or colloids to provide non drip properties and 2 degree of slip when applied by brush, to prevent rapid wicking of the water in the paint composition into a porous.surface such as plaster, and to keep the pigments in suspension.Many tes of such thickeners have been employed, including natural products such as gelatine, glue, guar gum, casein, and starch but synthetic products are normally preferred, e.g. hydroxyetbyl cellulose, carboxymethyl cellulose, methyl cellulose, high molecular weight polyethylene oxide, water soluble polyacrylate salts and polmetha. crylate salts of high molecular weight, polyurethane copolymers, maleic acid methyl vinyl ether copolymers, polyvinyl pyroilidone, polysaccharides grown by bacterial action such as xanthan gums, hectorite, macaloid, synthetic clays such as that sold under theTrade Mark Laponite, water soluble titanate salts and their zirconium and aluminium equivalents. We have found that the grade of thickener or colloid selected and the level used is governed by the other ingredients. of the paint recipe, but lower levels are often required than in onventlonal emulsion paints.Thickeners of any given type or brand are usually available in different molecular weights giving different degrees of thickening power at a fixed concentration in water. The grade, type and level of the other ingredients in the formulation will determine whether a high molecular weight or low molecular weight thickener is chosen, bearing in mind the various viscosity requirements indicated above. Optimum proportions of thickeners for paints of this invention are likely to lie in the range 0.1 two 0.75 by weight on the weight of the paint. Certain thickeners and collolds, such as the synthetic clays and the water soluble titanate, zirconate and aluminate salts, react with other paint ingredients to provide a high low shear viscosity or structure, In order to avoid this reaction, which is not desired in paints of the present invent ion, we prefer to use a hydroxyethyl cellulose or hydroxyjpropyl methyl cellulose thickener for matt and silk finish paints. Other specific types of thickener may be suitable for matt, silk or gloss finish paints, depending on the other paint ingredients, So called associative thickeners have recently been introduced, particularly by Rohm Haas who describe theirs in U.S. Patent No. 4,079,028.These may have the advantage over conventional acrylic and cellulosic thickeners of producing paints with good flow freedom from brush marks and good application propoerties. Such associative thickeners may be used in partial or complete replacement of conventional thickeners In paints according to this invention. 5. Anti Foaming Agent. It is well known that paints possessing a low viscosity tend to foam more than those with a higher viscosity, and an increased level of anti foaming agent is therefore required for use in paints of the present invention. There are many proprietary types of anti foaming agent available of varyi.ng degrees of effectiveness, and different paint formulations have different anti foam demands according to the level and type of surface active agent and colloidal stabilisers used Ln their preparation. The paints of this invention generally contain 2 50 by weight of pigment and or extender 5 30 by weight of filmfoxming resin up to 1 , preferably 0.1 05 of pigment dispersing agent up to 1 , preferably O.l 0.75 of thickener up to 1 , preferably 0.0 0.5 of antifoaming agent optionally other conventional emulsion paint ingredients, such as fungicides, bactericides, coalescing agents, anti rust agents and mono , di , and polyhydric alcohols, in conventional amounts, balance water. It is a further feature of the present invention that the formulation shall provide protection against repeated freezing and thawing as may be encountered during severe winter conditions during transportation or storage in unheated vehicles or premises. Whereas normal paints can still be applied by vigorous brushing even if they have been de stabilised by freezing and thawing, in the present invention any destabilisation, coagulation, flocculation or granular appearance prevents the paint from flowing along the plastic tube. An inclusion of ethylene or propylene glycol in amounts up to 4 on total weight of paint is helpful to impart full freeze thaw stability. Titanium dioxide is an expensive paint ingredient.In an effort to reduce the content of titanium dioxide in paints, various techniques have been put forward in recent years for achieving opacity by other means. PPG Industries Inc. have proposed British Patent No.1,178,612 incorporating a high boiling liquid, which slowly evaporates from the paint film leaving empty opaque pores. Dulux Australia have proposed British Patent No.1,288,583 beads with a polymeric coating and a hollow interior containing pigmentary titanium dioxide dispersed in air. SCM Corporation have proposed Australian Patent No.481,827 plastic pigments in the form of thermo plastic, e.g. polystyrene beads, having a minimum film forming temperature slightly above ambient. Berger Paints Australia have proposed in British Patent SpecificationNo. 1591924 polymer aggregates of irregular shape which are adapted to provide opacity whether or not they contain pigment. These techniques can be used to reduce, or even eliminate, the conventional pigment content in elr.ulsion paints according to the present invention. Properties of paints in the Examples were determined as follows Efflux Time Viscosity The apparatus used for this test is illustrated in the accompanying drawings in which Figure 1 is a diagrammatic illustration of the apparatus, and Figure 2 is an axial section through the handle shown as 24 in Figure 1. referring to Figure 1, a commercial carbon dioxide cy linder 10 and pressure regulator 12 are connected via a bayonet connector to a spray gun pot 14 carrying its own pressure regulator 16. A plastic container 18 within the spray gun pot contains the paint to be tested. A 16 cm spray gun dip tube 20, which dips below the surface of the paint, is connected via a flexible plastics tube 22, 0.5 cm internal diameter and 1.25 m long, to a delivery handle 24 with an on off spring loaded button 26. The delivery handle 24 and push button 26 are shown in more detail in Figure 2. Mle handle includes a housing in two parts 28, 30 screwed together, the downstream part 28 including the push button 26. Within the housing a tubular body 32 has an upstream extension 34 over which the end of the plastic tube 22 is a push fit, and a downstream extension 36 for attachment to a brush, pad or roller when the apparatus is used for painting rather than measuring etv. A valve is formed by an annular gasket 38 fixed to the body 32 against which a rocker 40 is urged by means of a spring 42.The rocker 40 has an extension 44 in the downstream direction. Manual pressure on the push button 26 tilts the rocker 40 against the action of the spring 42 and opens a gap between the gasket 38 and the rocker 40.The gasket 38 is 1.7 cm in external diameter, and the gap opened between the gasket 38 and the rocker 40 is a maximum of 1.0 mm. A flexible film 46 prevents paint from leaking out round the push button 26. The paint is brought to the desired temperature 1 C. The container of paint is inverted and restored five times then the lid is removed and the container placed in the spray gun pot. The lid of the pot is screwed on and tightened, so that the dip tube extends below the paint surface. The supply of gas is switched on, and both regulators adjusted to the desired pressure.The button is depressed to fill the tube with paint and run off a little paint. The pressure gauges are checked.The button is depressed, and the time taken to deliver 100 ml of paint is noted. The apparatus is cleaned by running water through the tube and handle. The apparatus is checked weekly using glycerol solution prepared by thinning 9g W w glycerol with 3 Zw water to give a viscosity at 250C of 83 Krebs units. This solution gives an efflux time viscosity at 20 C and 69 kPa of 70 secs, which should be achieved within 4 seconds as the average of a duplicate determination. High Shear Viscosity. This This is determined at a rate of shear of 10000 sec 1 and 25 C using an ICI cone and plate viscometer sold under licence by Research Equipment London Ltd. Contrast Ratio. An application of the test paint is made using a wire wound bar coater, which deposits a wet film of approximately 50 microns thickness, to a No. 08P Morest chart. When dry the test paint is compared visually to a set of standard paints of varying opacity, appliedIdentically and of known contrast ratio. This enables the contrast ratio of the test paint to be estimated within a narrow range of standard panels. The contrast ratios of the standard paints are determined using the method specified in ASTM D 2805 using a Macbeth 2000 Colorimeter set to record C.I.E. Y values under illuminant D.65. Freeze Thaw Stability. A sample of the paint under test is placed in a refrigerator at 100C and left overnight. The sample is allowed to thaw for 6 hours and then examined for signs of coagulation, i.e. a rubbery consistency or a granular or flocculated appearance. The test is continued up to a maximum of 7 cycles of freezing and thawing. Paints which look satisfactory after 7 freezethaw cycles are subjected to the etv test at 200C and 69 tcPa. The following Examples illustrate the invention. The Examples are as follows 1 is brilliant white vinyl matt paint according to this invention. 2 is pale green vinyl matt paint according to this invention. 3 is commercially available pale cream vinyl matt paint which has been diluted by one sixth so as to reduce its efflux time viscosity to a value in the range 40 to 100 seconds at 69 kPa and 20 C. 4 is brilliant white silk paint according to this invention. 5 is blue vinyl silk paint according to this invention. 6 is a commercially available brilliant white vinyl silk paint which has been diluted by one sixth so as to reduce its efflux time viscosity to a value within the range 40 to 100 seconds at 69 kPa and 20 C . 7 is a white acrylic wood primer according to this invention. 8 and 9 are brilliant white gloss paints according to this invention. The detailed formulations are set out in Tables 1 and 2. The efflux time viscosities cf these nine paints, measured under various conditions, ae set out in Tables 3 and 4. Other properties of the paints are set out in Table 5. Examples 3 and 6 are included for comparison. We have tested 36 commercially available emulsion paints of different kinds, after dilution where necessary to pass the etv test at 69 kPa and 200C all of them failed one or more of the etv tests used to characterize paints of this invention. Table 1 EMI17.1 Ingredient SEP Example SEP No. SEP SEP by SEP weight tb 1 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 6 tb Titanium SEP dioxide SEP 23.72 SEP 18.95 SEP 12.97 SEP 22.46 SEP 6.66 SEP 19.44 tb China SEP clay SEP 4.98 SEP 5.83 SEP 8.69 SEP 0.80 SEP 7.48 SEP 2.97 tb Talc SEP 9.96 SEP 11.65 SEP 4.16 SEP SEP SEP Whiting SEP 5.49 SEP 6.42 SEP 6.68 SEP SEP SEP Polymer SEP emulsion SEP A SEP 16.00 SEP 16.13 SEP 13.42 SEP SEP SEP B SEP SEP SEP SEP 32.62 SEP 42.52 SEP C SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 26.44 tb Defoamer SEP 0.20 SEP 0.21 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.16 SEP 0.18 SEP 0.03 tb Coalescing SEP solvent SEP 0.81 SEP 0.83 SEP 0.66 SEP 0.66 SEP 0.72 SEP 0.54 tb Ethylene SEP glycol SEP 2.03 SEP 2.07 SEP SEP 0.50 SEP 0.54 SEP Water SEP 22.89 SEP 22.82 SEP 31.24 SEP 19.21 SEP 19.27 SEP 27.25 tb Pigment SEP Dispersant SEP 0.26 SEP 0.25 SEP 0.16 SEP 0.23 SEP 0.23 SEP 0.13 tb Ammonia SEP SEP SEP 0.05 SEP SEP SEP 0.05 tb Sodium SEP benzoate SEP SEP SEP 0.40 SEP SEP SEP 0.33 tb Phenylmercury SEP preservative SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 tb Gelling SEP agent SEP SEP SEP 0.06 SEP SEP SEP 0.09 tb Hydroxyethylcellulose SEP 2.5 SEP soln. SEP 13.56 SEP 13.80 SEP 21.26 SEP 23.26 SEP 21.47 SEP 22.63 tb Shading SEP Colour SEP SEP 0.94 SEP 0.10 SEP SEP 0.33 SEP Table 2EMI18.1 tb Ingredient SEP SEP by SEP Weight tb SEP Ex. SEP 7 SEP Ex. SEP 8 SEP Ex. SEP 9. tb Titanium SEP Dioxide SEP 15.6 SEP 18.8 SEP 19.1 tb Barytes tb China SEP Clay SEP 1.5 SEP SEP . SEP tb Whiting SEP 5.8 tb Polymer SEP Emulsion SEP D. SEP 33.1 tb SEP SEP E. SEP SEP 48.5 SEP tb SEP SEP F. SEP SEP SEP 47.2 tb Defoamer SEP 0.15 SEP 0.4 SEP 4.1 tb Coalescing SEP Solvent SEP 1.8 SEP 3.7 SEP 1.7 tb Ethylene SEP Glycol SEP 2.0 SEP 1.65 SEP 2.0 tb Propylene SEP Glycol SEP SEP 7.0 SEP 8.0 tb Water SEP 11.2 SEP 16.25 SEP 13.05 tb Pigment SEP Dispersant SEP 0.2 SEP SEP 0.2 SEP 0.2 tb Ammonia SEP SEP 0.15 SEP 0.5 tb Phenyl SEP mercury SEP preservative SEP 0.15 SEP 0.15 SEP 0.15 tb 2 SEP Hydroxyethylcellulose tb SEP Soln. SEP 20.3 tb Associative SEP thickener tb SEP 35 SEP NVM SEP SEP 2.0 tb Polyacrylate SEP thickener tb SEP 30 SEP NVM SEP SEP .0.9 SEP 3.7 tb Surfactant SEP SEP 0.3 SEP 0.3 tb Polymer emulsion A is a polyvinyl acetate polyvinyl versatate copolymer emulsion supplied at 52.5 solids content with an average particle size of 0.4 microns. The stabiliser used is mixed colloid and surface active agent type. Polymer emulsion B is a fine particle size pure acrylic resin emulsion of approximately 45 solids content by weight. It is surfactant stabilised. Polymer emulsion C is as A but with an average particle size of 0.3 microns. Polymer emulsion D is a puw acrylic emulsion supplied at 60 solids content with an average particle size of 0.6 microns. It is a surfactant stabilised emulsion. Polymer emulsions E and F are pure acrylic fine particle size emulsions supplied at 50 solids content by weight. They are supplied specifically for the formulation of glossy emulsion paint and are surfactant stabilised. All of polymers A, B, C, D, E and F are commercially available products. Table 3EFFLUX TIME VISCOSITY SECONDS EMI20.1 Temperature tb C SEP 20 SEP 5 SEP 30 SEP 20 SEP 20 SEP 20 SEP 20 SEP 20 SEP 20 tb Pressure tb kPa SEP 69 SEP 69 SEP 69 SEP 62 SEP 103 SEP 69 SEP 69 SEP 69 SEP 69 tb Pretreatment SEP Storage SEP Storage SEP Storage SEP Storage SEP Storage SEP 3 SEP months SEP 6 SEP months SEP 12 SEP months SEP Freezeovernight SEP overnight SEP overnight SEP overnight SEP overnig SEP storage SEP storage SEP storage SEP thaw tb 7 SEP cycles tb Permitted tb range SEP 40 100 SEP 120 SEP 35 SEP 120 SEP 20 SEP 40 100 SEP 40 100 SEP 40 100 SEP 40 100 tb Example tb 1 SEP 57 SEP 118 SEP 46 SEP 115 SEP 35 SEP 97 SEP 74 SEP 75 SEP Pass tb 2 SEP 54 SEP 90 SEP 56 SEP 87 SEP 30 SEP 56 SEP 64 SEP 62 SEP Pass tb 3 SEP 63 SEP 120 SEP 34 SEP 94 SEP 33 SEP 61 SEP 47 SEP 33 SEP Fail SEP 2nd tb 4 SEP 60 SEP 80 SEP 37 SEP 100 SEP 23 SEP 71 SEP 57 SEP 50 SEP Pass tb 5 SEP 70 SEP 80 SEP 42 SEP 111 SEP 23 SEP 75 SEP 67 SEP 53 SEP Pass tb 6 SEP 43 SEP 120 SEP 28 SEP 67 SEP 25 SEP 60 SEP 48 SEP 36 SEP Fail SEP 2nd tb cycle tb Table 4EFFLUX TIME VISCOSITY SECONDS PRIMER AND GLOSS EMI21.1 Temperature SEP C SEP 20 SEP 5 10 SEP SEP 30 SEP 20 SEP 20 SEP 20 SEP 20 tb Pressure SEP kPa SEP 69 SEP 69 SEP 69 SEP 62 SEP 103 SEP 69 SEP 69 tb Pretreatment SEP Storage SEP Storage SEP Storage SEP Storage SEP Storage SEP 3 SEP months SEP Freeze thaw tb O N SEP O N SEP O N SEP O N SEP O N SEP storage SEP 7 SEP cycles tb Permitted SEP Range SEP 40 100 SEP 120 SEP 35 SEP 120 SEP 20 SEP 40 100 SEP 40 100 tb Example tb 7 SEP 74 SEP 95 SEP 40 SEP 103 SEP 29 SEP 78 SEP Pass tb 8 SEP 77 SEP 117 SEP 72 SEP 114 SEP 56 SEP 93 SEP Pass tb 9 SEP 67 SEP 115 SEP 64 SEP 100 SEP 42 SEP 78 SEP Pass tb 5 for the primer of Example 7, 10 for the gloss paints of Examples 8 and 9. Other properties of the paints of Examples 1 to 9 are set out in the following Table. Table 5EMI22.1 tb SEP Example SEP High SEP Shear SEP Viscosity1 SEP Contrast SEP Ratio tb SEP Poise SEP tb Permissible SEP 0.2 SEP SEP 1.5 SEP for SEP matt, SEP at SEP least SEP 90 SEP for tb ranges SEP silk SEP or SEP primer SEP matt tb SEP 0.2 SEP SEP 2.5 SEP for SEP gloss SEP at SEP least SEP 80 SEP for tb SEP silk SEP or SEP gloss tb SEP 1 SEP .55 SEP 95.9 tb SEP 2 SEP .60 SEP 96.9 tb SEP 3 SEP .60 SEP 87.8 tb SEP 4 SEP .40 SEP 85.0 tb SEP 5 SEP .40 SEP 86.0 tb SEP 6 SEP .40 SEP 78.8 tb SEP 7 SEP .85 tb SEP 8 SEP 1.00 SEP 83.0 tb SEP 9 SEP 1.25 SEP 83.0 tb Some points in Tables 3, 4 and 5 are worth noting. i All paints passed the etv test at 20 C and 69 kPa after storage overnight. However, the conventional paints of Examples 3 and 6 had to be diluted before doing so. Most conventional emulsion paints fail this test. ii The diluted conventional paints of Examples 3 and 6 failed the etv tests at 5 C and 30 C. Most conventional paints fail one or other of these tests. iii The paints of Examples 3 and 6 passed the etv tests at 62 kPa and 103 kPa. However, most flat or matt paints fail this test at 62 kPa. iv The paints of Examples 3 and 6 both passed the etv test after storage for 3 months but failed after 12 months. Most conventional paints fail this test v The paints of Examples 3 and 6 both failed the freeze thaw stability test. vi The contrast ratio of the conventional matt paint of Example 3 was less than those of the matt paints of Examples 1 and 2. The same is true for the conventional silk paint of Example 6 cotnpared to the silk paints ofExamples 4 and 5. The contrast ratio of the primer ofExample 7 was not determined. The diluted conventional paints of examples 3 and 6 contained oversized particles which became apparent during the cleaning process of the pressurised applicator following application testing. Example 10. The viscosity properties of the polymer emulsions used in the foregoing Examples were tested at 45 solids using a Brookfield Viscometer at 250C with Spindle No.2 at 12 r.p.m. The results are set out in Table 6. Table 6EMI24.1 tb Polymer SEP Stabiliser SEP Poise SEP Suitability tb Emulsion tb SEP A SEP c s SEP 2.30 SEP Suitable tb SEP B SEP S SEP 0.25 SEP Suitable tb SEP C SEP C S SEP 4.62 SEP Unsuitable tb SEP D SEP S SEP 0.000 SEP Suitable tb SEP E SEP S SEP 0.000 SEP Suitable tb SEP F SEP S SEP 0.000 SEP Suitable tb Note S Surface Active Agent C Colloid Stabilised c s Mixed Stabiliser.