# Fluorobarbituric acid derivatives and their preparation.

## Abstract
A 5 fluorobarbituric acid derivative of the formula

## Claims
lAhat is claimed is 1. A compound of the formula EMI6.1 wherein R is a hydrogen atom or a C1 C10 hydrocarbon group. 2. The compound according to claim 1 wherein R is a hydrogen atom. 3. The compound according to claim 1 wherein R is alkyl, alkenyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl or aralkyl, the carbon atoms in those groups being not more than 10. 4. The compound according to claim 1 wherein R is methyl, ethyl or butyl. 5. The compound according to claim 1 wherein R is cyclopentyl or cyclohexyl. 6. The compound according to claim 3 wherein R is benzyl or phenethyl. 7. A process for preparing a compound of the formula EMI6.2 wherein R is a hydrogen atom or a C1 C10 hydrocarbon group, which comprises reacting dialkyl 2 fluoro 2 substituted or unsubstituted malonate of the formula EMI7.1 wherein R and R are each a lower alkyl group and R is as defined above, with urea in the presence of an alkali metal alkoxide. 8. The process according to claim 7 wherein the reaction is effected in the presence of a solvent. 9. The process according to claim 8 wherein the solvent is a lower alkanol. 10. The process according to claim 7 wherein the reaction is effected at a temperature of from room temperature to the boiling point of the solvent. 11. The process according to claim 7 wherein the alkali metal alkoxide is one selected from the group consisting of sodium methoxide, potassium methoxide, sodium ethoxide1 potassium ethoxide, sodium propoxide, potassium propoxide and sodium butoxide.

## Description
FLUOROBARBITURIC ACID DERIVATIVES AND THEIR PREPARATION This invention relates to fluorobarbituric acid derivatives and their preparation. The said fluorobarbituric acid derivatives are representable by the formula EMI1.1 wherein R is a hydrogen atom or a C1 C10 hydroca bon group such as alkyl preferably C1 C5 alkyl , alkenyl preferably C2 C5 alkenyl , cycloalkyl preferably C3 C7 cycloalkyl , cycloalkenyl preferably C3 C7 cycloalkenyl o aralkyl preferably phenyl C1 C3 alkyl . Specific examples of the fluorobarbituric acid derivatives I are 5 fluorobarbituric acid, 5 fluoro 5alkyl barbituric acid e.g. 5 fluoro 5 methyl barbituric acid, 5 fluoro 5 ethylbarbituric acid, 5 fluoro 5 butylbarbituric acid , 5 fluoro 5 cycloalkylbarbituric acid e.g.5 fluoro 5 cyclopentylbarbituric acid, 5 fluoro 5 cyclohexylbarbituric acid , 5 fluoro 5 alkenylbarbituric acid e.g. 5 fluoro 5 allylbarbituric acid , 5 fluoro 5 aralkylbarbituric acid e.g. 5 fluoro 5 benzylbarbituric acid, 5fluoro 5 phenethylbarbituric acid , etc. According to this invention, the fluorobarbituric acid derivative I may be prepared by reacting dialkyl 2 fluoro 2 substituted or unsubstituted malonate of the formula EMI2.1 wherein R and R are each a lower alkyl group preferablyC1 C5 alkyl and R is as defined above, with urea in the presence of an alkali metal alkoxide. Dialkyl 2 fluoro 2 substituted or unsubstitutedmalonate II to be used as the starting material may be prepared, for example, by the following process EMI2.2 EMI3.1 wherein X is a halogen atom, R, R and R are each as defined above and R is a C1 C10 hydrocarbon group. The cyclization reaction in the process of the invention can proceed by treatment of urea with dialkyl 2fluoro 2 substituted or unsubstituted malonate II in the presence of an alkoxide ion at a temperature from room temperature to elevated temperature in a solvent. The molar ratio of the urea and the dialkyl 2 fluoro 2 substituted or unsubstituted malonate II may be usually from 1 1 to 2 1. As the source of the alkoxide ion, an alkali metal alkoxide is usually employed, and its specific examples are sodium methoxide, potassium methoxide, sodium ethoxide, potassium ethoxide, sodium propoxide, potassium propoxide, sodium butoxide, etc. As the solvent, an alcohol, preferably a lower alkanol such as methanol or ethanol, may be used. The reaction temperature is usually from room temperature to the boiling point of the solvent. The desired product may be isolated from the reaction mixture and purified by per se conventional sepasation and purification procedures. The fluorobarbituric acid derivatives I show a physiological activity such as hypnotic activity and are useful as hypnotic agents. They are also useful as intermediates in the production of other per se physiologically active substances. The present invention will be hereinafter explained further in detail by the following Examples. Example 1 5 Fluorobarbituric acid A mixture of dimethyl 2 fluoromalonate 1.4 g , urea 1.2 g and sodium methoxide 0.54 g in methanol 5 ml was refluxed for five hours. Methanol was then evaporated off. The residue was recrystallized from aqueous ethanol to give 5 fluorobarbituric acid 1.1 g Yield 78 . M.P. 2500C. 19F NMR spectrum 6 ppm 127.5 using trifluoroacetic acid as the external standard . Mass spectrum m e 146 M . Exapmles 2 to 6 In the same manner as in Example 1 but using dimethyl 2 fluoro 2 R malonate wherein R is as shown inTable 1 in place of 2 fluorobarbituric acid, the corresponding 5 fluoro 5 R barbituric acid was prepared. Yields were as shown in Table 1. Table 1EMI5.1 tb SEP Ex SEP BX SEP R SEP I SEP 1Yield SEP Melting SEP 19F SEP NMR SEP Mass tb SEP ample SEP SEP SEP point SEP 6 SEP ppm 1 SEP spectrum tb SEP No SEP SEP CH3 SEP 44 SEP 250 SEP 65 SEP 5 SEP I SEP 150 SEP m e tb SEP Ii SEP 1 SEP 44 SEP 250 SEP 65.5 SEP 150 SEP M tb SEP i2 SEP CH tb SEP I. tb SEP iThM2Hs SEP 40 SEP 77 SEP 0 SEP 77.0 SEP 164 SEP M tb SEP 4 SEP C4H9 SEP 72 SEP 250 SEP 76 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 202 SEP M tb SEP 5 SEP CH2 CHCH SEP 65 SEP 2250 SEP SEP 74 SEP 5 SEP SEP 186 SEP M tb SEP 6 SEP 6 SEP z SEP FCH2 SEP SEP 55 SEP 250 SEP 74.0 SEP 74 SEP 0 SEP SEP 236 SEP 74.0 tb Note 1 Using trifluoroacetic acid as the external standard.