# Electrostatic precipitator efficiency enhancement.

## Abstract
Problems associated with electrostatic precipitators in clude maximizing the efficiency of such precipitators and avoiding bridging or compaction problems in the particle collection or disposal hoppers. The present invention provides a method for enhancing the removal of particles from a particle laden gas stream utilising an electrostatic precipitator, the method comprising treating the particle laden gas stream with an additive which is morpholine, a derivative of morpholine or a mixture thereof. Treated particles are found to also have desirable flow characteristics. In one embodiment of the invention the additive is used in combination with a known electrostatic precipitator efficiency enhancer. The present invention also provides a composition for treating particle laden gas streams which comprises a known electrostatic precipitator efficiency enhancer and an additive which is morpholine, a derivative of morpholine or a mixture thereof.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method for removing particle3 from a particle laden gas stream is an electrostatic precipitator electrically charging the particles by passing. the gas stream through an ionization field and attracting the thus charged particles to a grounded collecting electrode for collection, characterized in that, prior to collection of the particles, from about 1 to about 200 parts, per million parts of gas, of an additive which is morpholine, an effective derivative of morpholine or a mixture thereof is distributed across the gas stream within the ionization field to enhance the efficiency of particle removal. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that the additive is added in an amount of from about 5 to about 100 parts of additive per million parts of gas. 3. A method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, characterised in that the additive is contained in an aqueous solution. 4. A method as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3, characterised in that the additive or the aqueous solution containing the additive is distributed in submicon sized droplets into the gas stream. 5. A method as claimed in any of claims 1 to 4, characterised in that the particles are fly ash. 6. A method as claimed in any of claims 1 to 5, characterised in that the particle laden gas stream is the combustion gas of a boiler system fined by a sulfur containing fuel. 7. A method as claimed in claim , characterised in that the fuel is coal. 8. A method as claimed in claim 7, characterised in that the gas stream contains sulfur dioxide. 9. A method as claimed in any of claims 1 to 8, characterised in that the additive is morpholine. 10. A method of conditioning particles being removed from a particle laden gas stream so as to inhibit agglomeration and compaction of the particles during collection and to assure ease in handling, transporting and disposal of particles, characterised in that, prior to collection of the particles, from about 1 to about 200 parts, per million parts of gas, of an additive which is morpholine, an effective derivative of morpholine or a mixture thereof is distributed across the gas stream, and the thus treated particles are then collected 11. A method as claimed in claim 10, characterised in that the additive is in an aqueous solution. 12. A method as claimed in claim 10 or 11, characterised in that the additive or the aqueous solution containing the additive is distributed in submicron size droplets across the gas stream. 13. A method as claimed in any of claims 10 to 12, characterised in that the particles are fly ash derived from the combustion of a sulfur containing fuel. 14. A method as claimed in claim 13, characterised in that the fuel is coal. 15. A method as claimed in any of claims 10 to 14, characterised in that the additive is morpholine. 16. A method for removing particles from a particle laden gas stream in an electrostatic precipitator and inhibiting the agglomeration, composition and hardening of the collected particles by electrically charging the particles by passing the gas stream through an ionization field and attracting the thus charged particles to a grounded collecting electrode for collection, characterised in that, prior to collection, from about 1 to about 200 parts, per million parts of gas, of a composition comprising l morpholine, a derivative of morpholine or a mixture thereof, and 2 a known electrostatic precipitator efficiency enhancer is distributed across the gas stream. 17. A method as claimed in claim 16, characterised in that the known efficiency enhancer is an effective free base amine alcohol. 18. A method as claimed in claim 16 or claim 17, characterised in that the composition is in an aqueous solution. 19. A method as claimed in any of claims 16 to 18, eharacterised in that the composition or the aqueous solution containing the composition is distributed across the particle laden gas stream in submicron sized droplets. 20. A method as claimed in any of claims 16 to 19, characterised in that the particles are fly ash derived from the cpmbustion of a sulfur contaning fuel. 21. A method as claimed in claim 20, characterised in that the fuel is coal. 22. A method as claimed in any of claims 16 to 21, characterised in that the free base amine alcohol is an alkanolamine. 23. A method as claimed in claim 22, characterised in that the alkanolamine is monoethanolamine, diethanolamine, triethanolamine, methylethanolamine, N aminoethylethanolamine, N,N diethylethanolamine or a mixture thereof. 24. A method as claimed in any of claims 16 to 2d, characterised in that component i is morpholine. 25 A composition for treating particle laden gas streams in an electrostatic precipitator system, characterised in that it comprises i morpholine, a derivative of morpholine or a mixture thereof and ii a known electrostatic precipitator efficiency enhancer. 26. A compopition as claimed in claim 25, characterised in that the known efficiency enhancer is a free base amine alcohol. 27. A composition as claimed in claim 25, or claim 26, characterised in that the composition is an aqueous solution. 28. A composition as claimed in any of claims 25 to 28, characterised in that the free base amine alcohol is an alkanolamine. 29. A composition.as claimed in claim 28, characterised in that the alkanolamine is monoethanolamine, diethanolamine, triethanolamine, methylethanolamine, N aminoethylethanolamine, N,N diethylethanolamine or a mixture thereof. 30. A composition as claimed in any of claims 25 to 29, characterised in that component i is morpholine.

## Description
DESCRIPTION ELECTROSTATIC PRECIPITATOR EFFICIENCY ENHANCEMENT The present invention relates to a method of removing particles from a particle laden gas stream for an electrostatic precipitator, a method of conditioning particles being removed from a particle laden gas stream, and to a composition for treating particle laden gas streams in an electrostatic precipitator system. The use of an electrostatic precipitator for removing particles from gas is indeed well knon. Typically, this type of device utilizes the corona discharge effect, i.e., the charging of the particles by permitting such to pass through an ionization field established by a plurality of diseharge electrodes.The charged particles are then attracted to a grounded collecting electrode plate from which they are removed by vibration or rapping. This type of precipitator is exemplified in U.S 3,109,720 to Cummings and 3,030,753 to Pennington. A common problem associated with electrostatic precipitators is maximizing the efficiency of particle removal. For example, in the utility industry, failure to meet particle emission standards may necessitate reduction in power output derating . Gas conditioning is an important method for accomplishing this goal as described in a book entitled INDUSTRIAL ELECTROSTATIC PRECJPITATION by Harry J. White, Addison Wesley Publishing Company, Inc. Reading, Massachusetts, 1963 , p. 309. To improve precipitator operations various chemical addItives have ben recommended. In this regard reference to U.S.Patents Nos.2,391,879 and 4,239,504. These chemical additives are commonly referred to as electrostatic precipitator efficiency enhancers.These additives modify either the surface chemistry of the particles or the electrical characteristics of the flue gas to enhance the efficiency of the electrostatic precipitator. A secondary, but certainly an important and sometimes crucial, aspect of the precipitator operation is the condition of the ash once it has been removed from the gas stream. More specifically, as can be appreciated, because of the enormous amountsof fuel consumed, for example in an electricity producing facility, the amount of fly ash collected is quite sizeable. Consequently, the fly ash clearly should most desirably be in an easily handled state for removal and disposal. Fly ash which bridges in the collection or disposal hoppers, or which forms a solid mass cementous obviously does not meet the aforedescribed criteria.In some instances agents, either alone or in conjunction with electrostatic precipitator efficiency enhancers, are used to condition the fly ash so as to avoid the bridging or compaction problems. While some materials are quite effective in increasing the efficiency of electrostatic precipitators, they may, as explained later herein, affect the handleability, removal and disposal of the collected fly ash because they modify the surface characteristics of the fly ash, causing the ash to agglomerate and compact. Most desirably an agent should affect fly ash collection without any attendant agglomeration or compaction problems. It has been found, in accordance with the present invention, that morpholine and its derivative compounds are not only quite effective as electrostatic precipitator efficiency enhancers but also that the use of this family of compounds produces fly ash which does not have the propensity to cause the bridging or handling problems earlier described. Accordingly, this family of compounds may be used either alone or in conjunction with other known electrostatic precipitator enhancers which, although quite effective for this purpose, provide fly ash which is not easily handled or which forms a semisolid mass in the hoppers. As apparent, added expense is incurred in the removal of this compacted fly ash. Examples from the morpholine family of compounds which are useful for this purpose are set out in the following list Morpholine 2 phenyl 3,4 dimethyl 4 butyl morpholine morpholine 2 phenyl 3,3 2,2 diethyl 4 dimethyl butyl morpholine morphol ine 2,2 dimethyl 4 2 phenyl 5,5 butyl morpholine dimethyl morpholine 2,6 dimethyl 4 cyclohexyl 2,3 diphenyl morpholine morpholine 4 cyclohexyl 2 ethyl morpholine morpholine 3 ethyl 4 cyclopentyl morpholine morpholine 4 ethyl 2,3 dimethyl morpholine morpholine 2 methyl 4 2,4 dimethyl phenyl morpholine morpholine 2,5 dimethyl 2 methyl 3 phenyl morpholine morpholine 2,6 dimethyl 2 methyl 5 morpholine phenyl morphol ine 3,3 dimethyl morpholine 2 methyl 6 phenyl 3,4 dimethyl morphol ine morpholine 4 phenyl 3,5 dimethyl morpholine morpholine The amount of morpholine and or its derivatives required for effectiveness as an electrostatic precipitator efficiency enhancer EPEE and or as a particle conditioning agent may vary and will, of course, depend on known factors such as the nature of the problem being treated. The amount could be as low as about 1 part of morpholine per million parts of gas being treated ppm , however, about 5 ppm is a preferred lower limit. Since the systems tested required at least about 20 ppm morpholine, that dosage rate represents the most preferred lower limit.The upper limit could be as high as about 200 ppm, with about 100 ppm representing a preferred maximum. Since it is believed that about 75 ppm active morpholine will be the highest dosage most commonly experienced in actual precipitator systems, that represents the most preferred upper limit. While the treatment could be fed neat, it is preferably fed as an aqueous solution. Any well known feeding system could be used provided good distribution across the gas stream duct is ensured. For example, a bank of air atomized spray nozzles upstream of the precipitator proper has proven to be quite effective.Particularly effective results are achieved where the treatment or composition is distributed across the gas stream in submicron size droplets. If the gas temperature in the electrostatic precipitator exceeds the decomposition point of a particular morpholine being considered, a higher homolog with a higher decomposition point should be used. As earlier indicated, morpholine and or its derivatives may be used either alone as an electrostatic precipitator efficiency enhancer, or as a particle, and in particular fly ash, conditioning agent or it may be used where desirable for either purpose with other know n efficiency enhancers. Exemplary of such other enhancers are those described in U.S.Patent No.2,381,879 according to which the efficiency of removal of acidic particulates is increased by adding an organic amine to the gas, specifically, a primary amine, e.g. methylamine, ethylamine, n propylamine or sec butylamine a secondary amine, e.g. dimethylamine, diethylamine, dipropylamine or diisobutylamine a tertiary amine, e.g. trimethylamine, triethylamine, tripropylamine or triisobutylamine a polyamine., e.g. ethylenediamine, a cyclic amine, e.g. piperidine or an alkanolamine phosphate ester described in U.S.Patent No.4,123,234. Most preferably the morpholine and or its derivative is used together with a free base amine alcohol described in U.S.Patent No.4,239,504. The amino alcohols can be categorized as aliphatic, aromatic or cycloaliphatic. Illustrative examples of aliphatic amino alcohols are, for example, as f6llows ethanolamine diethanolamine tri ethanol amine propanol amine dipropanolamine tri propanol amine isopropanolamine diisopropanol amine triisopropanolamine diethylaminoethanol 2 amino 2 methylpropanol 1 1 dimethyl aminopropanol 2 2 aminopropanol 1 N methylethanolamine di methyl ethanol amine N,N diisopropylethanolamine N aminoethylethanolamine N methyldiethanol amine N ethyldiethanolamine N 2 hydroxypropylethylenediamine N 2 hydroxypropyldiethylenetriamine aminoethoxyethanolN methylaminoethoxyethanol N ethylaminoethoxyethanol 1 amino 2 butanol di sec butanolamine tri sec butanolamine 2 butylaminoethanol dibutylethanolamine 1 amino 2 hydroxypropane 2 amino i ,3 propanediol aminoethyl ene glycol dimethylaminoethylene glycol methylaminoethylene glycol aminopropylene glycol 3 aminopropylene glycol 3 methyl aminopropylene glycol 3 dimethylaminopropylene glycol 3 amino 2 butanol Illustrative examples of aromatic amino alcohols are as follows p aminophenylethanol o aminophenylethanol phenyl ethanol amine phenyl ethyl ethanol amine p aminophenol p methylaminophenol dimethyl ami nophenol o aminophenol p aminobenzyl alcohol p dimethylaminobenzyl alcohol p aminoethylphenol e dimethyl aminoethyl phenol p dimethylaminoethylbenzyl alcohol l phenyl 1,3 dihydroxy 2 aminopropane l phenyl 1 hydroxy 2 aminopropane 1 phenyl 1 hydroxy 2 methylaminopropane Illustrative examples of cycloaliphatic amino alcohols are as follows cycl ohexyl ami noethanol dicyclohexylaminoethanol 4,4 di 2 hydroxyethylamino di cyclohexylmethane 2 aminocyclohexanol 3 aminocyclohexanol 4 aminocyclohexanol 2 methyl ami nocycl ohexanol 2 ethylaminocyclohexanol dimethylaminocyclohexanol diethyl aminocycl ohexanol aminocyclopentanol ami nomethyl cycl ohexanol Of course, the aliphatic and cycloaliphatic amino alcohols can be grouped together under the category alkanolamines. The amount of free base amino alcohol as well as those described in U.S.Patents Nos.2,381,879 and 4,123,234 enhancers required for effectiveness as an electrostatic precipitator efficiency enhancer EPEE may vary and will, of course, depend on known factors such as the nature of the problem being treated. The amount could be as low as about 1 part of enhancer i.e.morpholine and or its derivatives, known enhancer or a combination thereof per million parts of gas being treated ppm however, about 5 ppm is a preferred lower limit. The upper limit could be as high as about 200 ppm, with about 100 ppm representing a preferred maximum . Since it is believed that about 75 ppm active enhancer will be the highest dosage most commonly experienced in actual precipitator systems, that represents the most preferred upper limit. Accordingly, the morpholine and or its derivatives may be used in conjunction with a known enhancer either in a single composition or each may be fed separately to the gas stream. The most economical and effective method, of course, is to feed a composition of the morpholine and a known enhancer, e.g. a free amine base alcohol, for example, as an aqueous solution. The composition itself can be designed on a weight ratio basis of the components, the amount of each ingredient in the composition will be dependent upon the particular problem experienced in a specific application. For example, the free baste amino alcohols, while impressively effective as enhancers in many applicaticns perhaps more so than morpholine , sometimes give rise to agglomeration, and compaction of the collected fly ash which has led to bridging in the hoppers, thus causing removal problems. These problems may be non existent in some applications, minor in others, and more pronounced in others. The amount of morpholine and or its derivatives included in the composition is accordingly commensurate with the severity of the problem.Accordingly, the composition may contain on a weight ratic basis from about 1 to 99 of morpholine, its derivatives or mixtures thereof and from about 99 to 1 of known enhancer, e.g. the alkanolamines. A preferred weight ratio of morpholine and or its derivatives of known enhancer is 1 to 3. A series of tests were conducted to determine the efficacy of morpholine using a pilot electrostatic precipitator system comprised of four sections 1 .a heater section, 2 a particulate feeding section, 3 a precipitator proper and 4 an exhaust section. The heater section consists of an electric heater in series with an air aspirated oil burner. It is fitted with several injection ports permitting the addition of a chemical and or the formulation of synthetic flue gas. Contained within the heater section is a damper used to control the amount of air flow into the system. Following the heater section is the particulate feeding section which consists of a 10 foot length of insulated duct work leading into the precipitator proper. Fly ash is added to the air stream and enters the flue gas stream after passing through a venturi throat. The fly ash used was obtained from industrial sources. The precipitator proper consists of two duct type precipitators, referred to as inlet and outlet fields, placed in series. Particulate collected by the unit is deposited in hoppers located directly below the precipitator fields and is protected from reentrainment by suitably located baffles. The exhaust section contains a variable speed, induced draft fan which provides the air flow or through the precipitator. Sampling ports are located in the duct work to allow efficiency determinations to be made by standard stack sampling methods. Optical deneity, O.D., is a measure of the amount of light absorbed over a specific distance. Optical density is proportional to particulate concentration, C, and optical path length, L, according to O.D. KLC, where K is a constant and is a function of the particle size distribution and other physical properties of the particle. Since optical density is directly proportional to particulate concentration it may be used to monitor emissions. Accordingly, an optical density monitor.located in an exit duct of an electrostatic precipitator would monitor particulate emissions with and without the addition of chemical treatments to the gases. Treatments which increase the efficiency of a unit would result in decreased dust loadings in the exit gas. This would be reflected by a decrease in O.D. To ensure reproducibility of results, particulate size distribution and other particulate properties, e.g. density and refractive index, should not change significantly with time. Accordingly, in the tests conducted, a Lear Siegler RM 41 optical density monitor located in the exit duct work was used to evaluate precipitator collection performance. The use of the pilot electrostatic precipitator and optical density monitor for evaluating the efficacv of a chemical treatment as an EPEE is illustrated below in the Example.Example Fly ash produced as the combustion by product of an approximately 1 sulfur coal was found to have a resistivity of 1010 ohm cm at 3000F 148.9 C . Utilizing this ash type and a flue gas similar to that of an industrial utility plant, pilot electrostatic precipitator studies were performed to determine whether or not a gas conditioning agent could enhance the collection efficiency. The results of the trial are presented in Table 1. TABLE 1 Test num 1 Test num 2 Chemical Feed Rate, ppm 0 20Inlet Mass Loading, gr SCF .5787 6144Outlet Mass Loading, gr SCF .83X10 3 .184X10 3 Efficiency 99.86 99.97Optical Density Baseline .0125Optical Density After Treatment .007X Reduction in Optical Density 44 Untreated Inlet Outlet Potentials 47 48 KVTreated Inlet Outlet Potentials 48 150 KV As shown in Table 1, the chemical additive at 20 ppm ef fected an increase in precipitator efficiency of from 99.86 to 99.97 . The enhanced precipitator operation is also reflected by the 44 reduction in optical density. The fly ash used in this and subsequent studies was characterized hy known standard slurry analysis, x ray fluorescence and optical emission spectra. The results are shown in Table 2. TABLE 2 Characterization of Fly Ash Samples Sulfur in coal 1 1.5 Resistivity ohmcm 2. 54X1010 Slurry Analysis Designated Constituent ppm Calcium as Ca 136Magnesium as Mg 9.2 Sulfate as S04 171 Chloride as Cl 6 Total Iron as Fe .05 Soluble Zinc as Zn .1 Sodium as Na 5.8 Lithium as Li , 0.5 Equilibrium pH Slurry 9.9 Inorganic Analysis Designated Constituent wt Loss on Ignition 8 Phosphorus, P205 1 Sulfur as S, SO2, S03 2 Magnesium as MgO 2 Aluminum as Al203 18 Silicon as SiO2 47 Calcium as CaO 3 Iron as Fe203, Fe304 19 K20 2 TiO2 1 The results of tests evaluating the efficacy of morpholine under various conditions are reported in Table 3 in terms of decrease in optical density O.D. . Gas flow rates in the pilot precipitator are reported as actual cubic feet per minute and actual cubic metres per second at 3100F 154.4 C . The SO2 and S03 reported are the respective amounts contained in the gas in terms of parts per million parts of gas. TheH20 is approximate volume in the gas. The chemical feedrates are reported as part of active treatment per million parts of gas. As can be seen from Table 3, morpholine was effective as an electrostatic precipitator efficiency enhancer. While the compound tested was morpholine, other cyclic inine ethers as a class would be effective for the purpose. Also, while the test gas contained fly ash and S02, which are conditions typically found in coal fired boilers, the EPEE according to the present invention would be effective in other gas systems where particulate matter is to be removed by an electrostatic precipitator. As a result of these tests, morpholine, being the most active compound, is considered to be the most preferred additive. TABLE 3 EVALUATION OF MORPHOLINE AS AN ELECTROSTATIC PRECIPITATOR EFFICIENCY ENHANCER Treat Dosage Gas Gas Flow SO2 SO3 H2O Optical ment ppm Temp. Rate ppm ppm Density F C Actual Actual Cubic Cubic Feet Metres per per minute secondMorph dine 7 310 154.4 150 O.. 71 676 2 5 40 20 310 154.4 150 0.071 676 2 5 36 34 310 154.4 150 0.071 676 2 5 40 139 310 154.4 150 0.071 676 2 5 38 20 385 196.1 150 0.071 0 0 2 48 40 310 154.4 150 0.071 676 2 .6 26 20 310 154.4 150 0.071 676 2 . 7 60 20 310 154.4 150 0.071 676 2 0 54 20 310 154.4 150 0.071 676 2 5 60 70 310 154.4 150 0.071 0 0 7 71 20 380 193.3 150 0.071 0 0 0 31 20 310 154.4 150 0.071 0 0 0 30 20 310 154.4 150 0.071 676 2 5 54 20 310 154.4 150. 0.071 676 2 7 54 Preliminary results of field trials which have been conducted at a utility plant confirm the above reported EPEE efficacy studies. Industrial boiler systems commonly include the boiler proper and heat exchanger means to receive hot combustion gas from the boiler. The heat exchanger can be either an economizer, which uses the combustion gas to heat boiler feedwater, or an air preheater, used to heat air fed to the boiler. In either case, the heat exchanger acts to cool the combustion gas. The most widely used boiler fuels are oil or coal, both of which contain sulfur. Accordingly, the combustion gas can contain sulfur trioxide which reacts with moisture in the combustion gas to produce the very corrosive sulfuric acid. Since the corrosive effects are, indeed, quite evident on metal surfaces in the heat exchanger equipment, cold end additive treatments are injected into the combustion gas upstream of the economizer or air preheater to reduce corrosion. If a boiler is coal fired, electrostatic precipitator equipment is sometimes provided downstream of the heat exchanger to remove fly ash and other particles from the combustion gas. To improve the efficiency of particle collection, electrostatic precipitation efficiency enhancers are typically added to the combustion gas at a location between the heat exchanger means and the precipi tator, that is, downstream of the heat exchanger means. Based on economic and or efficacy considerations, it may be desirable to blend morpholine and or various of its derivative compounds for optimization purposes. It is understood that the morpholine can be fed directly or formed in the gas stream as shown in Table 4. TABLE tp Synthesis of Morpholine DerivativesRef Heterocylic Compounds Vol. 6 R. C. Eldenfield ed, 1957 pages 502 510. Several different synthetic routes to morpholines are given in the reference.EMI17.1 Flue gas conditioning is one method by which the collection efficiency of electrostatic precipitator systems can be improved. However, the surface chemistry of the fly ash can be altered by physi or chemi sorption of the conditioning agent which may well affect the flow properties of the powdered material. In order to assess the effect, if any, that gas conditioning agents have on the flow characteristics of fly ash, it is necessary to determine to what extent the powder strength of a bulk powdered solid is enhanced by chemical treatment. To this end, a method was developed which quantitatively determined the relative powder strength, F, developed by a constant consolidating pressure, P, by measuring the torque, T, required to shear the powder through a fixed, but arbitrary angle of rotation. ash samples, treated in the pilot precipitator with various gas conditioning agents and at various feedrates, were withdrawn from the ash hopper system. The shear torque values of the various samples were then measured. The results are shown in Table 5.. It is clear from the results of Table 5 that inclusion of morpholine lowers the shear torque value and thereby lowers the acquired powder strength. As the concentration of morpholine in the treatment increases, the acquired powder strength is decreased.This is observed at both the 20 and 100 ppm treatment levels. The The fact that morpholine reduced the cohesive strength of fly ash powders was also confirmed by a second experiment in which the force required to crack a dried filter cake of treated, ash was determined. As the results in Table 6 show, treatment with morpholine greatly reduces the cohesive strength of the powder. TABLE 5 Shear Torque Value as a Function of Morpholine Concent ration Treatment Actives Dosage Shear Toraue Diethanolamine Morpholine ppm Relative Units 100 20 150 75 25 20 138 50 50 20 120 25 75 20 114 100 20 100 TABLE 6 Cohesive Strength of Fly Ash Powders Treated With Diethanolamine and Morpholine Treatment Dosage Cohesive StrengthControl 0 52Diethanolamine 10 wt wt 190 Diethanolamine plus Morpholine 10 1 wt wt 88 54Control 0 52Morpholine 1 wt wt 27 48 The two methods which were developed to measure the apparent relative cohesive strength of powders with and without chemi .cal treatments are not designed to yieid the absolute magnitude of the various forces responsible for the cohesion of powdered solids.The test methods were designed however, to measure in a relative way, the manner in which chemical treatments appear to affect these forces. In the first test, the powdered solid was placed in an aqueous medium containing the chemical treatment to be evaluated.After agitating to allow sufficient time for adsorption, the slurry was placed in an inert container and dried at 1030C for several hours. The dried ash was allowed to cool slowly in a controlled humidity environment. The surface hardness and cohesivity of the bound solid material 6 cm. in diameter and 1 cm thick was measured by placing the consolidated solid on one pan and an empty 500 cm3 beaker on the other pan of a double pan balance . The balance was then nulled and fully arrested to allow the positioning of a 3 mm plunger needle. The plunger was lowered to the surface of the ash by means of an externally mounted vernier assembly. The measurement was begun by releasing the balance and slowly adding weight, in a uniform way, to the balance pan containing the 500 cm3 beaker. In this case, water was added to the beaker from a 50 cm3 buret externally mounted over the beaker. In adding water to the beaker containing pan, an upward force was applied to the filter cake which was initially resting against the needle tip. As the force was increased, the plunger eventually penetrated and cracked the solid. The penetration was usually quite rapid and Hefinitive. The addition of weight to the beaker pan was stopped when the coagulated solid cracked. Once the filter cake was broken, the needle plunger was raised and the balance re zeroed. The weight necessary to re zero the balance gave the applied force required to penetrate the surface crust. The significance of the test when applied to the hopper systems of electrostatic precipitations is made clear when it is understcod that consolidated fly ash at the throat of the hopper outlet can form stable flow obstructions.by bridging and arching across structural support beams if the ash is capable of sustaining,, the principal stresses involved at the point in question. , In gener al, fly ash is not a free flowing powdered material which means that in many instances fly ash exhibits erratic flow.. Typically, erratic flow is characterized by a succession of arches or bridges which first form, fissure, crack, collapse and reform. It is believed that the measurement made in this test assesses, in a relative way, to what extent chemical treatment affects a powder s ability to exhibit erratic flow behavior. In the second method the manner in which chemical treat ments either enhance or retard the ability of a powdered solid to flow over itself is assessed. This is an important aspect of the flow process since it is clear that once the flow of a powder has been initiated, it is sustained by the ability of the powder to flow over itself and the container walls in which it is stored. The test method consisted of placing a weighed quantity of chemically treated fly ash obtained from the hopper system of the precipitator into a sta1r.less steel beaker and securing the beaker and contents to the base of the test apparatus. It should be noted, that before mounting the powder specimen on the testing stand, the powder contained within the beaker could be heat treated and or con solidated by applying standard weights to the surface of the ash.After the ash was suitably treated, the sample was raised by means of an externally mounted vernier until a shearing blade 2.54 cm x 7.62 cm contacted the powder surface. The base platform was then carefully raised until the blade was embedded within the ash sample such that a 1 cm powder layer existed between the top edge of the blade and the powder surface, The shearing blade was attached by means of a shaft to a device which applied a known torque to the motor shaft. The torque applied was sequentially increased. Each incremental increase in applied torque was maintained for 5 seconds. The cohesive strength of the powder was determined by the measured torque value required to shear the powder. A field trial using a 3 1 by weight blend of diethanol amine and morpholine as a 5 active aqueous solution formulation hereinafter referred to as Product was conducted on a full sized electrostatic precipitator system in an East Coast steam electric utility plant. The precipitator treated approximately 44 of the total flue gas produced by a 300 mw coal fired boiler unit. The precipitator was a Research Cottrel unit with 4 chambers, 10 power supplies, 20 bus sections and 5 fields. The precipitator is typical of the type of gas cleaning equipment used by utilities. The opacity of the effluent flue gas was monitored in the exit breeching of the precipitator as well as in the stack itself.Regulatory air pollution control agencies require that eftiuent stack gas opacity be less than or equal to 20 . During the course of the field trial several instances which demonstrated the efficacy of the diethanolamine morph9line blend were observed. The following is, typical of the demonstrated efficacy. In order to complete the pneumatic conveying system of a newly installed silo facility, the dust removal system servicing the precipitator in the facility was shut down. During this interim, the treatment of the precipitator with the Product was terminated.For two weeks prior to this termination, the Product was continually injected into the precipitator system. As evident from Table A, up to 11 00 a.m. the precipitator opacity. level was 15.8 and stable. However, at 11 00 a.m., the treatment rate was reduced. Within 30 minutes, the opacity level increased to 24.2 and continued to increase until 1 00 p.m., at which time treatment was terminated altogether. The untreated equilibrium opacity level was rapidly attained and as shown, settled to 53.2 . At 6 00 p.m., the precipitator dust removal system was reactivated, as was treatment and the Product. Again, as shown in Table À, in less than 15 minutes, the opacity rapidly dropped from nearly 53.2 to 24.2 . The opacity continued its downward trend and 2 hours later N8 00 p.m. , the 15.8 opacity level was re established. By contrast, the ppacity of the gas passing through a precipitator receiving no treatment with the Product remained constant throughout the period at levels ranging from 40 to 50 . Additionally, as shown in Table B, the overall input power KVA to the precipitator also responded to changes made in the treatment with the Product during the critical time periods. The initial reduction in treatment with the Product was reflected by a 31 reduction in power. This power reduction trend increased to nearly 57 when treatment with the Product was terminated completely. However, one hour after re starting treatment with theProduct N7 00 p.m. , power levels increased by 18 and 3.5 treatment hours later 9 OO p.m. , power levels increased 27.8 . TABLE A Corrected Exit Time Product Feed Stock Opacity 10 00 a.m. Continuous 15.8 11 00 a.m. Reduced 11 30 a.m. 24.2 1 00 p.m. Off 2 00 6 00 p.m. 53.2 6 00 p.m. On 6 15 p.m. 24.2 8 00 p.m. 15.8 TABLE B Precipitator Input Power Response With Flue Gas Conditioning Treatment With the Product. Precipitator Treatment Percent Change in Total Condition Power Electric OutputDay No. Time Product Feed From To X 1 7 40 a.m. On 35,800 11 00 a.m. Reduced 11 10 a.m. 24,795 30.7 1 00 p.m. Off 2 52 p.m. 14,701 58.9 5 00 p.m. 15,870 55.7 6 00 p.m. On 7 05 p.m. 15,870 18,735 18.0 9 35 p.m. 20,290 27.9 2 7 00 a.m. 45,065 183.9 Finally, the fact that the d ethanolamine morpholine blend effectively enhanced the flow properties of the bulk powdered solid is reflected by the shear torque data listed in Table C. As shown, the torque values associated with the ash samples extracted from the precipitator system and treated with the diethanolamine morpholine blend are in all cases lower than the corresponding average values observed during the control period. As a result of the treatment program, the treated precipi tator was kept well within the opacity limits required by state and federal regulatory agenc,es. In addition, no deleterious effects were noted on ash flow quality nor in any of the precipitations in ternals or sub system components which would in any way mitigate the efficacy demonstrated by the diethanolamine morpholine blend. TABLE C Ash Flow Quality Enhancement Observed During a Recently Completed Field Trial Average Relative Shear Torque1 Ash Sampling Location Control Chemically Treated No Treatment Diethanolamine Morpholine Inlet Hopper Section 126 t 7.2 115 t 10 Center Hopper Section 112 13 105 4 Outlet Hopper Section 119 11 98 9 1Shear Torque On a relative basis, the higher the shear torque value the more difficult it is for the powder to move over itself.