# Concentrates for the preparation of carbonated beverages.

## Abstract
Amorphous calcium carbonate, especially stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate resistant to transition to crystalline calcium carbonate, is useful as a carbonate factor in effervescent beverages, including medicated beverages.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A dry concentrate for preparing a carbonated beverage by admixture of the concentrate with water, said concentrate comprising an acid factor and a carbonate factor in less than the stoichiometric equivalent of the acid factor characterised in that the carbonate factor comprises amorphous calcium carbonate. 2. A concentrate according to Claim 1 wherein amorphous calcium carbonate is stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate. 3. A concentrate according to Claim 2 wherein the stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate is the product of a profess which comprises 1 forming an aqueous solution of calcium ions and a hydrogen bonding material, 2 contacting the solution with carbon dioxide while maintaining the solution at a temperature below about 15 C. to form a precipitate containing chemically bound water, and 3 reducing the amount of chemically bound water contained in the precipitate to below about 15 by weight while maintaining the resulting product in an environment that is essentially free of unbound water. 4. A concentrate according to any of Claims 1 to 3 wherein the carbonate factor includes a carbonation producing source supplemental to the amorphous calcium carbonate in an amount sufficient to bring the carbonation to a level greater than 1.0 volume of carbon dioxide gas per volume of final beverage. 5. A concentrate according to Claim 4 wherein said supplemental carbonation producing source is sodium bicarbonate. 6. A concentrate according to either of Claims 4 and 5, wherein said supplemental carbonation source is present in an amount sufficient to bring the carbonation to a level of 2.3 volumes of carbon dioxide gas per volume of final beverage. 7. A concentrate according to any of Claims 1 to 6 wherein said acid factor is citric acid. 8. A concentrate according to any of Claims 1 to 7 which further comprises a flavorant and or a synthetic sweetener. 9. A concentrate of Claim 8 wherein the sweetener comprises saccharin, a dipeptide or a mixture thereof. 10. A concentrate according to any of Claims 1 to 9 which further comprises a medicament.

## Description
CONCENTRATES FOR THE PREPARATION OF CARBONATEDBEVERAGES tunis invention relates to calcium carbonate which ts useful as 2 carbonating agent1 to processes therefor and effervescent co positions containing same. The reaction of acidic compositions, hereinsSter referred to as the acid factor, with bicarbonate or carbonate containing compositions, hereinafter referred to as the carbonate factor, in an aqueous environment, such as a solution, to produce or release carbon dioxide is well known in the art and will. hereinafter be referred to as the effer vescent reaction irne effervescent reaction has heretofore been utilized in y fields, such as the food and medicament industries, where A rapid release of carbon dioxide at a controlled point in time is undesirable, Products that undergo the effervescent reaction upon use normally cc rr4se a dry, solid mixture of an acid factor and a carbonate factor, aid mixture being hereinafter referred to as an effervescent composition. The acid factor and the carbonate factor in the effervescent compositions are normally dry solids and are water soluble, at least in the presence of each other. Additionally, the acid and carbonate factors utilized must be compatible with their intended use, i.e., if to be consumed, they must be Physiologically acceptable. Nany such effervescent compositions have been provided co erciaily. For instance, it is known that an effervescent composition of citric acid, sodium bicarbonate in less than the stoichiometric equivalent of citric acid and a flavor will provide a carbonated beverage upon adding the composition to the proper amount of water. Other examples of effervescent compositions are the well known effervescent medicament tablets, baking sodas and the like.The major advent 6e of these products is, of course, that the effervescent compost t on may be easily and economically stored as a dry solid and may tr.er. be used, as desired, by merely contacting it with water to produce a carbonated beverage, i.e., the release of carbon dioxide. The food industry has long sought commercially feasible products to provide a carbonated beverage from an effervescent composition. Such a beverage must be highly palatable and, as a practical matter, must afford a rapid rate of preparation by the consumer. Normally, the consumer expects to be able to prepare the beverage in a short time, i.e., within about one to three minutes at the most. It is essential, therefore that the effervescent composition rapidly undergo the effervescent reaction upon contact with water providing a carbonated beverage that is highly palatable to the consumer. Although many acid factors are available, such as citric acid, fumaric acid, adipic acid, malic acid, tartaric acid, etc., the prinary carbonate factor heretofore utilized in effervescent compositions has been sodium bicarbonate. Sodium bicarbonate is highly reactive with acid factors in aqueous solutions, rapidly releasing carbon dioxide, and has become the standard carbonate factor utilized by industry in effervescent compositions. Other carbonate factors, such as calcium carbonate and magnesium carbonate have been suggested as possible alter natives, but to date only sodium bicarbonate has been able to provide the desired rate of carbon dioxide release.Sodium bicarbonate does, however1 have a major drawback, Fcrticularly in the food and medicament industries, in that it gives a distinctly disagreeable saline or soapy taste to the solutions containing it, which is known to be due to the presence of the sodium ion. Accordingly, many attempts have been made to sub statute a more agreeable tasting cation in the carbonate factors utilized in effervescent compositions. A cation that provides excellent taste characteristics in aqueous solutions or compositions containing it is the calcium ion. Although call 2 carbonate and compositions containing it have been heretofore suggested as carbonate factors for effervescent compositions, they have not been utilized in commercial products due prinarily to the slow rate of carbon dioxide release they display in the effervescent reaction. For instance1 it takes the calcite state of calcium carbonate from about ten to about fifteen times the length of time required for an equivalent amount of sodium bicarbonate to release the total available carbon dioxide in a given acidic aqueous solution.Although several crystalline states of calcium carbonate are known such as the heretofore mentioned calcite and others such as aragonite and vaterite, none have been known to possess the requisite rate of carbon dioxide release for commercially feasible use in effervescent compositions. It is obvious, therefore, that a carbonate factor that contains calcium carbonate and that will rapidly undergo the effervescent reaction would be most welcome by those skilled in the art. Prior workers in this field have been unable to provide such a carbonate factor. It is an object of the present invention to provide such a carbonate factor. It is also an object of the present invention to provide a process for producing calcium carbonate that can be readily utilized as a carbonate factor in effervescent co positions. Furthermore, it is an object of the present invention to provide effervescent compositions that contain such a carbonate factor These and other objects and advantages will be apparent from a consideration or the following description of the invention. Accordingly, this invention provides stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate. STkSILIZSD AMORPHOUS CALCIUM CARBONATE For purposes of this discussion the term amorphous shall mean that morphological state of a material that does not show a crystalline state upon analysis by the known means of investigating a materials morphological state. For instance, a material is considered to be amorphous if it does not show any X ray pattern upon X ray analysis and shows only one refractive index upon subjecting the material to refractive index analysis. For purposes of this discussion the term stabilizedn means that the amorphous material under consideration will remain essentially in the amorphous state for significant periods of time, i.e., for at least one month and longer when stored in a closed container. Amorphous calcium carbonate has been reported in several sources Ilouisfert, J. et al., Compt. rend.235,287 lgn and Gillott, J.w., J. Appl. Chem. 17, 185 1967 . Gillott states that carbonate of Ca OH 2 may result in the formation of synthetic amorphous calcium carbonate which crystallizes to calcite in the presence of moisture at room te perature. Our experience with amorphous calcium carbonate agrees with Gillott s findings. We have found, however, that stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate is more resistant to calcite crystal formation than previously known amorphous calcium carbonate. It has been found that stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate has an infra red spectrum quite similar to that contained with the known crystalline states of calcium carbonate but distinguishable in that stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate gives a spectru3 wherein the peaks obtained are significantly broader than those obtained with the known crystalline states of calcium carbonate. Furthermore1 examination under the electron micro scope reveals a significant difference between stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate and the known crystalline states of calcium carbonate calcite, aragonite and vaterite . Calcite crystals appear as well formed cubes uniform in size.Crystals of vaterite occur as spheres of different size while those of aragonite form fairly uniform needles. In contrast, particles of stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate have no distinct size or shape at the same magnification. Further magnification reveals that stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate has a rough surface and non uniform size suggesting an agglomerate of smaller particles. Still further magnification shows extremely small, substantially spherical particles with an average particle size of from about 10 AO to about 340 AO at the edge of larger, irregularly shaped agglomerates. Upon subjecting stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate to X ray analysis no X ray pattern is obtained. These results indicate that, in fact, stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate is amorphous . The amorphous state of stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate was further confirmed by refractive index determina tions. It was found that not only is stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate clearly isotropic but that it gives refractive indices that are distinctly different from the refractive indices found with other amorphous calcium carbonate and the known crystalline states of calcium carbonate. Stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate is useful wnerever small particle calcium carbonate has heretofore been found useful. Furthermore, stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate is extremely useful as a carbonate factor in effervescent compositions. Therefore, this invention also provides excellent effervescent compositions comprising an acid factor and stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate. A PROCESS FOR PRE22 . SZA3ILIZ AMORPHOUS CALCIUM CARBONATE A process for the preparation of stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate comprises 1 forming an aqueous solution of calcium Ions and a hydrogen bonding material, 2 contacting the solution with carbon dioxide while maintaining the solution at a temperature below about 15 C. to form a precipitate containing chemically bound water, and 3 reducing the amount of chemically bound water contained in the precipitate to below about 15g by weight while main taming the resulting composition in an environment that is essentially free of unbound water. The term ydrogen bonding material as utilized herein means a material or combination of two or more materials that form hydrogen bonds in aqueous solutions.The hydrogen bonding material must be an organic material whose nolecule contains at least one oxygen or nitrogen atom that is capable of bonding hydrogen in another part of the sa e molecule or in sone other molecule. Furthermore, the hydrogen bonding material must be water soluble at the temperatures contemplated for the precipitate forming step of the process of the present invention. It may occur that the hydrogen bonding material is not completely water soluble per se in the formation of the aqueous solution but will go into solution as the precipitateforming step proceeds these materials are also within the scope of the present invention.Examples of hydrogenbonding materials include all the mono , di , tri and oligo saccharides which are water soluble such as sucrose, glucose, fructose and mannose, or saccharide derivatives of the hydrocolloid type such as gum arabic, guar gum, propylene glycol, alginate, carrageen the alcohols and polyhydric materials which are water soluble such as methanol, ethanol, propanol, sorbitol and glycerine1 the amino acids which are weter soluble, including optically active and inactive materials anE polymeric amino acids peptides , such as glycine and lysine aspartic acid, phenylalanine and the dipeptide esters thereof such as the methyl ester of t aspartyl t phenylalanine the carboxylic and hydroxycarboxylic acids such as glycolic, acetic, tartaric and lactic acid. The preferred hydrogenbonding materials are the saccharides due to their ready availability and usefulness in products to be consumed. The concentration of the hydrogen bonding material in the aqueous solution to be utilized in the present invention can generally be in the range of from about 2 up to about 95 by weight of the total solution.Although it is possible to carry out the process at lower and higher levels of hydrogen bonding materials, it has been found that the range of from about 10 up to about 45 by weight is the most practical from a commercial ozerian point of view. However, it should be under stoc what, depending on the particular hydrogen bonding materials selected, the concentration can be varied eicel g o obtain the desired results. For instance, excellent results have been obtained with a glycine concentration as low as about low whereas, with methanol1 a concentration of about 90 has been found to give excellent results. In determining the proper amount of hydrogenbonding material to be utilized the physical effects of the hydrogen bonding material in the aqueous solution should be considered. For instance, the aqueous solution should not contain so high a concentration of hydrogenbonding material so as to form a solution that is so viscous as to present problems such as poor heat transfer, poor mixing, etc. The preferred amount hydrogen bonding material in the aqueous solution is in the range of from about 10 to about 50d by weight of the total solution. It has been found that when sucrose is utilized within this range excellent results have been obtained with the process of this invention. The first step of the process of this invention comprises the formation of an aqueous solution of calcium ions and the hydrogen bonding material. The concentration of calcium ions in the solution should be in the range of from about 0.01 to about 23 by weight of the solution and preferably from about 1 to about 10 .Although, as a practical matter, this latter range is preferred, the process can in fact be carried out at lower levels of calcium ion concentration, dependent only on the payload desired, whereas the higher levels are dependent on the amount of calcium ion that can be placed in solution witch is, in turn, somewhat dependent upon the hydrogen bonding z serial utilized and the temperature at which the aqueous solution is formed. Although there are a number of different ways to form the aqueous solution containing calcium ions and hydrogenbonding material, this is not a critical aspect of the present invention and many different methods may be utilized to form this solution. For instance, the aqueous solution may be formed by dissolving such calcium containing materials as calcium oxide, calcium hydroxide, calcium hydride, calcium peroxide or other water soluble calcium salts such as calcium chloride, etc.in either a water, and thereafter dispersing the hydrogenbonding material therein, or in b an aqueous solution already containing the hydrogen bonding material. It is also possible to utilize calcium metal to provide the calcium ions in the aqueous solution by contacting it with water, although this is somewhat impractical. It is, of course, also possible to form the aqueous solution by adnixing an aqueous solution of the calcium containing material with an aqueous solution of the hydrogen bonding material or any other such modifications thereof as long as the resulting aqueous solution has the proper concentration of calcium ions and hydrogen bonding material. The water used for forming the aqueous solution can be either distilled water or tap water as long as an undue amount of hardness is avoided. The temperature at which the solution is formed is not critical to the process of this invention, but is is preferably below about 70per., so as to avoid any adverse conversion of the hydr en bondlng material, such as, for instance, the inversion of sucrose. In particular, it has been found that excellent results can be obtained by forming the solution at ambient temperatures. Moreover, it has been found that en the hydrogen being naterial is sucrose, the lower the temperature of the aqueous solution, the higher the level of calcium ion concentration that can be provided in the solution which is, of course, particularly advantageous to the process of the present invention due to superior payloads per unit weight of aqueous solution. Although insoluble impurities sometimes found in the aqueous solution of calcium ions and hydrogen bonding material do not significantly affect the process of this invention, they can end up in the resulting product as an impurity and result in a decreased reactivity of the stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate when it is utilized as a carbonate factor in an effervescent composition. It is preferred, therefore, that the solution be filtered, centrifuged or otherwise treed so as to remove most, if not all, of the insoluble impurities found. in the solution. Furthermore, it is preferred to form a solution in the first step of the process of this invention that is clear , i.e., transparent, as opposed to an opaque solution.This results in products that are substantially superior in their functionality in the effervescent reaction. In regard to the removal of insoluble impurities, there is a lower limitation on the temperature of the solution when removing the insoluble impurities because it has been found that the lower the temperature of the solution the slower the rate of removal, such as by filtration, and therefore the longer the tire required for removing the insolubles. Because it has been found that the calcium ion concentration in the solution can be increased at lower temperatures with some hydrogen bonding agents, tis lower limit on the temperature at which removal of insolubles sold take place will have to be balanced against the desirability of improving or increasing the calcium ion concentration.In general, it is preferred to remove most of the insoluble impur ities frcm the solution at lower temperatures that is, at as low a temperature as is possible wherein the insoluble impurities will be at a minimum, due to the higher solubility of calcium containing materials at lower temperatures, without requiring an undue amount of time for removal. The insoluble impurities mentioned hereinabove may be excess calcium oxide, other calciumcontaining materials such as calcium hydroxide, calcium carbonate, and many of the other insoluble salts that are found normally as an impurity in calcium containing materials. Once the aqueous solution of calcium ions and hydrogenbonding material has been formed, the second step, which will herein be referred to as the precipitate forming step, consists of contacting the resulting solution with carbon dioxide in order to form a precipitate. In general, it has been found that if the precipitateforming step is carried out at lower temperatures, the stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate obtained has faster rates of reactivity in effervescent reactions. Tnerefore, it should be noted here that the temperature of the aqueous solution during the precipitate forming step should, in general, be maintained below about 150 C. down to as low as about the freezing point of the aqueous solution in order to obtain the more reactive products of this invention.Furthermore, it has been found that the temperature maintained in the aqueous solution during the precipitate forming step affects the reproducibility of the desired products of this in vention. Although the reasons for such an effect are not known, it has been found that the reproducibility of such products is greatly improved at the lower temperatures.Accordingly, it is preferred that the temperature of the aqueous solution in this prec ate formlng step be below about 100C., and further preferred that the temterature be from about 50C. to about S C, ed still further preferred that the temperature of the solution be from about jOC. to about 0 C. In regard to the tem erature of the aqueous solu tion .nile the precipitate forming step is being carried out, it has been observed that the presence of ice in the aqueous solution will assist in the maintaining of the proper tempera ture of the aqueous solution and also appears to assist in the fo ation of an excellent product. Although a good product is obtained without the presence of ice, it should be noted that the presence of ice in the aqueous solution will improve the product obtained from the process of this invention. The aqueous solution containing the hydrogen bonding material and calcium ions is brought to the proper temperature and maintained at that temperature while contacting it with carbon dioxide. The carbon dioxide may be in the form of a gas or a solid or may be introduced on the surface of the solu tion, sub surface, or even contacted in a counter current fashion. The preferred method of contacting is subsurface to provide both intimate contact and good agitation. Carbon dioxide may also be introduced in conjunction with other gases, such as a converter gas, as long as the other gases are inert. Sufficient agitation of the aqueous solution should be provided so that the temperature of the solution at any particular location in the aqueous solution does not rise above about l50C. i.e., to prevent localized hot spots . In carrying out the precipitate forming step, the aqueous solution must, at the outset, be in a basic or alkaline state to form a precipitate, The pH will decrease as the precipitation takes place. It has been found that this alkaline ph condition is necessary to obtain stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate. This alkaline state can ordinarily be obtained by utilizing these forms o, calcium that will form basic or alkaiine solutions upon contact th water but it can also be obtained by incorporating alkaline materials in the aqueous solution. The carbon dioxide should be introduced into the aqueous solution until no further carbon dioxide is taken up. The carbon dioxide can continue to be introduced but it has no further effect on the aqueous solution. If the aqueous solution evolves carbon dioxide other than the normal carbon dioxide evolving from a carbon dioxide saturated aqueous solution then the aqueous solution should be allowed to equili .brate until substantially all of the carbon dioxide has evolved. The precipitate formed in the precipitate forming step is a form of calcium carbonate that contains a large proportion by weight1 based on the weight of the precipitate, of chemically bound water and also contains a hydrogenbonding material. This precipitate must then be treated to reduce the amount of chemically bound water contained in the resulting precipitate to below about 15 or, in other words, to cause A IdehydrationR of the precipitate. It is critical that the dehydration be carried out in a manner such that the resulting composition is maintained in an environnent that is essentially aree of unbound water. By this statement it is meant that, to provide the products of the present invention by proper dehydration, means must be provided to substantially avoid contacting the resulting composition with water that is in a Vree state either water from the aqueous solution or water that has been released from the precipitate.It has been found that the novel products of this invention can only be provided in this manner. Several methods have been developed to carry out the de dration. One of these methods comprises isolating the reciritate from, the aqueous solution by recovering the precipitate from the solution and washing it with a volatile organic solvent and subsequently dehydrating the precipitate in an en W4roxaent that facilitates a substantially instantaneous removal of a portion of the chemically bound water from the remaining composition once the water has been released from its chemIcally bound form in the precipitate. This method is described in greater detail as follows. Once the precipitate forming step of the process ot this invention has been completed, the precipitate can be recovered from the aqueous solutions. Recovery can be carried out by any of the usual means of recovering a solid from a liquid containing it, such as, by filtration, centrifugation or sedimentation, etc., resulting in a cake of the precipitate with some of the aqueous solution adhering to it. The recovered cake can then be washed free of the aqueous solution by solvent displacement with a water miscible organic solvent so as to remove the last traces of any remaining aqueous solution that may be adhering to the particles of the precipitate. The preferred water miscible organic solvents to be utilized in washing the cake are the lower alkyl alcohols, such as methanol, ethanol or isopropanol or the ketones, such as acetone that can be readily removed from the precipitate by drying at low temperatures. This results in a material that is free of any of the aqueous solution from which it was formed. It has been found that some organic solvents will not only remove the aqueous solution adhering to the precipitate cake but will also cause some portion of the chemicallybound water to be renoved. This is not only not detrimental but is desIrable as it requires less dehydrat1n of the resalting isolated precipitate without adversely affecting the resulting end product. During recovery and washing it is preferred to maintain the precipitate at low temperatures until the cake is substantially free of the aqueous solution. It is preferred to conduct the isolation, including the solvent displacement or washing portion, at temperatures below about 150 C. and preferably at temperatures below about 100 C. and particularly preferred at temperatures of from about 5 C. to about 50 C. This provides excellent products of this invention. The temperatures utilized in removing the watermiscible solvent from the precipitate may vary somewhat depending on the particular organic solvent utilized for washing the precipitate without adverse effects in the resulting products. For instance it has been found that, when utilizing methanol, a temperature up to about 40 C. can be used whereas with acetone and ethanol a temperature higher than about SOC. can cause adverse effects in the resulting products. After washing with the organic solvent, it has been found that the water now remaining in the precipitate is chemically boand rather than merely adhering to the precipitate particles and is a large part by weight of the precipitate. The precipitate must then be treated to reduce the amount of chemically bound water contained therein to below about 15p so as to provide stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate. The reduction of the amount of chemically bound water in the resulting precipitate is accomplished by treating the precipitate in a particular manner for removal of the chemlcally bound water and should be clearly distinguished from the isolation of recovery of the precipitate from the aqueous solution es previously described.In particular, the precipi tste as isolated above must now be treated n an environment that facilitates the substantially instantaneous removal of a portion of the che ically bound water from the remaining composition once the water has been released from its chemically bod for3 in the precipitate. In other words, there is a twotold effect required that comprises a causing a portion of the chemically bound water to be released from the ccnbinatflon in which it is bound, while b substantially Instantaneously removing the water so released from the resulting composition. The dehydration can be carried out by various means and in many types of equipment. For Instance, it has been found that excellent dehydration results are obtained by treating the solvent washed and dried precipitate in vacuum ovens, fluid bed dryers, and, although the length of time requiredIs increased, even dehydration by air drying in low humIdity conditions. In each of these procedures the solvent washed and dried precipitate is treated so as to cause A portion of the che cally bound tter to be released while substantially Instantaneously removing the water from the surrounding connosi tion as it is released. Dehydration should be ccntinued until the amount of chemically bound water remaining in the resulting cc ositflon is less than 15 by weight. While the chemically bound water content can be reduced to as low as about 0.1H, of te resulting composition the dehydration is preferably stopped en the chemically bound water content is from about 2 to art 5 by weight of the composition. The undehydrated precipitate, after isolation from the solution in which it was formed and whether solvent washed or not, is a soft, friable semi solid. tThen properly dehydrated it retrains this friable condition but becomes harder and more solid. If not properly dehydrated, i.e., the water is not reroved rapidly enough, the soft, friable semi solid loses its shape and becomes a slurry. Drying the slurry results in a hard, brittle, chalk like solid which is apparently the calcite crystalline state of calcium carbonate which does not have the desired rate of reactivity in the effervescent reaction.This undesirable effect will be hereinafter referred to as decompo sition. In another illustrative embodiment of the dehydration portion of the process of the present invention, it has been found that dehydration can be carried out in the following manner. This embodiment consists of forming a cold aqueous slurry of the precipitate formed in the precipitate forming step of the process of this invention and spray drying the slurry. One way of preparing the cold aqueous slurry is by separating the major portion of the aqueous solution, in which the precipitate was formed, by such means as filtration, centrifugation, sedimentation, etc., leaving a wet cake which has adhering to it a small amount of aqueous solution and subsequently slurryin5 the wet cake in cold water. Alternatively, less of the aqueous solution can be separated from the precipitate leaving a cold aqueous slurry of the precipitate in the aqueous solution. The degree of separation of the aqueous solution from the precipitate will depend on the desirability of recycling the aqueous solution back through the first step of the process of this invention so as to avoid undue use of the hydrogen bonding material balanced against the economics of providing cold make up water to reslurry the cake. The cold aqueous slurry formed may even be a compromise between the two above illustrations wherein the aqueous solution ws not eparated encuh to form a cake of the precipitate but cold water is added, nevertheless, to provide the slurry desired.In any case, the resulting slurry should be maintained at all times during formation and until drying below about 150 C. so as to avoid adverse effects on the resulting product. The cold aqueous slurry is then spray dried while maintaining the spray dryer at conditions sufficient to rapidly dry and dehydrate the slurry and precipitate that is being introduced into the spray dryer at below about 150 C. It has been found that this embodiment of the process of the present invention will result in a combination of completing the isolation of the precipitate from the aqueous solution in which it was formed and at the same time causing the release of chemically bound water while substantially instantaneously removing the water so released. This portion of the process of this invention is thereby simplified and improved resulting in less preparation time. Furthermore, this procedure eliminates the necessity of washing the precipitate with a water miscible solvent. It is to be noted that the effect on the precipitate using spray drying is essentially the same as previously disclosed. Enat is, the action of the spray dryer removes the remaining aqueous solution fran the precipitate which, in essence, completes the isolation as previously described and, concurrently, the spray drying causes a release of most of the chemically bound water from the precipitate while causing the substantially instantaneous removal of the water so freed from the surrounding composition. It has been found that the resulting chemically bound water in the product is within the preferred range of chemically bound water content. It should be understood that the products of this invention while having the desirable characteristics previously described can also have some of the undesirable properties of materials of the prior art due to partial decomposition apparently due to conditions maintained during the dehydration step. A test was developed to measure the reactivity of various calcium carbonates which is as follows 200 milliliters of distilled water is mixed with 5.0 milliliters of 1.0 normal citric acid solution to form a solution that contwins 5 milli equivalents of citric acid. The pH of this citric acid solution is 2.6 as measured on a Leeds and Northrup pH meter with expandable scale the full scale deflection is 2 pH units . The pH meter is connected to a Leeds and Northrup recorder with a 6.5 inch width chart and a speed equivalent to 8 inches per minute and adjusted so that full scale deflection is 2 pH units. The electrodes of the pH meter are immersed in the citric acid solution and the beaker containing the solution is placed on a magnetic stirrer. The stirrer is adjusted to approximately 125 rpm. The pH meter is adjusted to O deflection the recorder is therefore also at 0 deflection .The recorder chart is activated. A 0.18 gram sample of the calcium carbonate to be tested is then added to the beaker. The pH of the solution, as recorded on the recorder, will increase until all of the calcium carbonate has reacted and the reaction is considered to be complete when the pH of the solution no longer increases. By determining the point at which the pH no longer increases, the length of time required for a particular sample of calcium carbonate to react can be observed. Utilizing this reactivity test, the reactivity of various calcium carbonates can be determined. It has been found tt those calcium carbonates that heve a reactivity time of less than one minute, when measured by the above test, will provide carbonate factors for effervescent compositions that are extremely useful in that they are capable of supporting extremely rapid effervescent reactions upon use. The process of the present invention will provide such calcium carbonates. During the investigations which resulted in the present invention it was found that some calcium carbonates prepared, although initially possessing this desirable characteristic of rapid reactivity, would lose their rapid reactivity after periods of storage. It was found that, in contact with saturated air, many such rapidly reactive calcium carbonates quickly lose their rapid reactivity. A lower degree of saturation or relative humidity resulted in a slower loss in the rapid reactivity. Those samples that were stored under low humidity conditions retained their rapid reactivity for longer periods of time. It was found that the most severe conditions of storage for such calcium carbonates is storage in a small sealed container i.e. with very little air space . This is apparently due to the fact that the sample has only to give up a very small amount of water to saturate the air in the container. Saturated air at 22.20C. contains 0.0002 grams water vapor cc. In order to determine the storability of varios rapidly reactive calcium carbonates including thole of the present invention the following test was developed. Weigh 2.0 g. of a sample into a 1 oz. glass bottle and seal with a cap. Store the bottle and contents at room temperature 20 250C. . At the end of one month storage measure reactivity by the above de scrised test.If the reactivity increases more than 5 in this test the sample tested does not have an acceptable storability. In general, we have found that a chemicallybound water content in stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate of below about 5 is desired for good storability. However, it has been found that the storability of the materials of this invention is not solely dependent on the chemically bound water content. Materials have been prepared containing as much as 15 cne ically bound water which have been found storable for greater than 9 months and other materials containing only 2 , water were found to be nonstorable in less than one month. It is preferred, however, that stabilized amor pious calcium carbonate have a water content of no more than about 5 to have a reasonably predictable and ac cetable storability. The process of the present invention will be more readily understood by reference to the following examples, of which Example 1 is B general pro cure, which are understood not to limit the present invention, but to be construed broadly and be restricted solely by the appended claims. In these examples th water content of the dehydrated precipitate refers to chemi ally bcund water content. Unless otherwise noted in these examples, analyses of the products resulting from the following procedures show the presence therein of the hydrogen bonding material utilized. DAZZLE 1 In a suitable vessel, an aqueous solution of calcium ior.s and sucrose is prepared. The preferred amount of sucrose in the aqueous solution Is from about 10 to about 30 by weight of the solution. The concentration of calcium ions in the solution can be from about .01d to about 23 by weight calcium per weight of the total solution. This solution may be fo ed by dispersing such calcium containing materials as a calcium oxide, calcium hydroxide, calcium hydride, calcium peroxide or other water soluble salts such as calcium chlorides, etc., in either water and subsequently adding sucrose, or in an aqueous sucrose solution.It is preferred to add the calciumcontaining materialbeforethe sucrose, and it has been found that the calcium ion solubility is increased as the sucrose concentration in the aqueous solution is increased. It is preferred to form the calcium ions and sucrose aqueous solution by adding calcium oxide to water to form a slaved lime slurry adding sucrose to the resulting slurry. For illustrative purposes calcium oxide will be utilized in this example. The purity of the sucrose material is not critical as long as excessive amount of impurities are avoided. The purity of the calcium oxide utilized is also not critical, but it is undesirable to have much more than a trace amount of magnesia ions associated with the aqueous solution.It is also particularly helpful in forming the solution to select the materials that have uniformly small particle sizes SO as to afford a fairly rapid rate of dissolving the material. It is preferred to obtain an aqueous solution that has both sucrose and calcium at the higher levels of the abovenoted ranges due to superior yields in product per unit weight of solution. The te perature utilized in forming the solution is not critical to the process of this invention, but it is pre ferably below about 70 C. so as to avoid any adverse conversion of the sucrose such as by inversion. Furthermore, It has been found that the lower the temperature of the sucrose containing aqueous solution when adding the calcium oxide thereto, the higher the concentration of calcium ions that can be placed in solution. It is creferred to remove any insolubles remaining in the solution. The resulting aqueous solution of sucrose and calcium ions is then contacted with carbon dioxide. The solution is at P We erature preferably of from about 3 C. to about 3 C., and maintained at t t te perature while contacting it with carbon dioxide. e carbon dioxide is In the forum of a gas and is introduced Into the solution subsurface. This provides both intimate contact and good agitation. h precipitate begins to for, after about 1.4 to about 1.5 moles carbon dioxidef moles calcium in the solution has been consuned and continues to form until about 1.7 to about 2.2 noles of cancndioxide per mole of calcium has been consumed the formation of a precipitate in this phase is exothermic. At this point, it is preferred to stop the feeding of tne carbon dioxide to the solution, although the process of tis invention can be carried out by continuing to feed carbon dioxide into the solution. en the exothermic phase of the precipitate forming step has been concluded, the solution begins to evolve carbon dioxide in an endothermic phase. Tf the carbon dioxide feed stream is continuously being fed to the aqueous solution, it can be ob ryea that the amount jin released frc7 the solution is greater than the amount being added thereto. If the carbon dioxide feed stream to the aqueous solution has been stopped at the end of the exothermic phase as above described the solution containing the precipitate will evolve carbon dioxide.In either case, this endothermic carbon dioxide releasing phase continues until the mole ratio of consumed carbon dioxide to calcium in the solution is about 1.0 moles of carbon dioxide per mole of calcium. It is critical in the formation of the precipitate that the phases as described above be completed and, further, that the second phase be continued until the point where carbon dioxide release has essentially ceased. The precipitate is then isolated from the solution1 such as by centrifugation, followed by washing with water iniscible solvent and evaporating the solvent. This procedure results in a washed precipitate that is free of any of the solution fron which it was formed. Any water remaining in the precipitate is chemically bound rather than merely adhering to the precIpitate particles. The amount of this chemically bound water must be reduced below about 15rye so as to provide stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate. sne washed precipitate is then dehydrated. For instance, this can be carried out most readily in a vacuum oven at high vacuum that continuously removes the water as it is released from its chemically bound condition. The resulting products are finely divided white powers that, upon subjection to the above described reactivity test, react within one minute and maintain this reactivity for at least one month storage. EXAMPLE 2 In a suitable vessel, a mixture of 75.0 g. of calcium oxide and 225.0 g. of water was stirred at ambient temperature for 15 minutes to form a slaked lime slurry. A solution of 337.5 g. of sucrose and 937.5 g. of water was added to the slaked lime slurry and the resulting mixture was stirred 15 minutes at ambient temperature and then cooled to 50C. Twenty grams of Dicalite Speed Plus filter aid was added and the mixture was filtered through 20 g. of Dicalite Speed Plus. The filtrate was then cooled to OOC. and 1000 g. of ice was added, resulting in a mixture containing 2. calcium and 13.1 sucrose. To this mixture was added 40 liters of CO2, fed into the mixture subsurface with rapid stirring with a precipitate being formed. The resulting mixture was stirred for one hour at 2 C., then warmed to 2 C. and the precipitate was removed in basket centrifuge. The precipitate cake was slurried in 700 ml. of OOC. water 13 solids and the slurry was spray dried at 5000F. inlet temperature outlet temperature 3000 F. . Ninety grams of product were recovered.Analysis indicated the presence of 4.9 H20. fine reactivity of the product was 45 sec. and remained so over extended periods of storage. EXAMPLE 3 In a suitable vessel, a mixture of 1300 g. of water, 300 g. of sucrose and 50 g. of calcium oxide as stirred for one hour at anbient temperature, then cooled to 50 C. Twenty grams of Dicalite Speed Plus was added and the mixture was vacuum filtered through 20 g. of Dicalite Speed Plus. The filtrate was then cooled to 0 C., 300, g. of crushed ice was added resulting in a mixture containing 1.1 calcium and 15. 5 sucrose and 0 85 cu. ft. of CO2 was fed into this mixture subsurface with rapid stirring with a precipitate being.formed. The resulting mixture was stirred at 2 C. for one hour and then warmed to 1 C The precipitate was removed by centrifugation and slurried 4 times with 550 ml. quantities of 5 c. acetone. After each wash the solvent was removed by vacuum filtration. The washed precipitate was dehydrated for 18 hours at 44 C. in a vacuum oven 0.45 mm. . The product obtained contained 9.1 H20, had a reactivity of 45 seconds and retained this reactivity for extended periods of storage. EXEMPLE 4 Following the procedure of Example 2 a precipitate w s Prepared and centrivuged. The resulting cake 250 g. was washed 4 times with 475 hull. quantities of 2 C. acetone.The acetone wac removed after each wash by vacuum filtration.The washed precipitate was dried in a fluid bed dryer at 400 C. with 5 5.5 ft.3 min. air flow for 60 minutes. The resulting product contained 7.5 H20, had a reactivity of 45 seconds and retained this reactivity for extended periods of storage. EXP1PLE 5 A precipitate is prepared by the following procedure.In a suitable vessel, a mixture of 75.0 g. of calcium oxide and 225.0 g. of water was stirred at ambient temperature for 15 minutes to form a slaked lime slurry. A solution of 337.5 g.of sucrose and 9,7.5 g. of water was added to the slaked lime slurry and the resulting mixture was stirred 15 minutes at ambient temperature and then cooled to 50C. Twenty grams of Dicalite Speed Plus filter aid was added and the mixture was filtered through 20 g. of Dicalite Speed Plus. The filtrate was then cooled to 0 C., 750 g. of ice was added resulting in a mixture containing 2.2 calcium and 14.5 sucrose. Forty liters of CO2 was fed subsurface with rapid stirring with a precipitate being formed. The resulting mixture was stirred for one hour at 20C., then warmed to 20 C. and the precipitate was removed in a basket centrifuge. Samples of the precipitate cake prepared by the above procedure were dried and or dehydrated as follows A. The precipitate cake is dried as is without solvent wash . 1 Ten grams of cake dried in vacuum oven Nacnal Appliance Co., inside dimensions 12 x 8 x 8 at 25 C. and less than 1.0 mm. fcr 4 hours followed by drat4r.g at 67 C. and less than 1.0 mm. for 18 hours. Water content 4.6 Reactivity 45 seconds Storability excellent 2 Forty grams of cake dried in vacuum oven at 25 C. and less than 1.0 mm. for 2 hours followed by drying at 84 C. and less than 1.00 nn. for 18 hours. Water content o.8 Reactivity 102 secondsTwenty five grams of cake dried in a forced draft oven Blue M Electric Co., Blue Island, Illlnois at 45 C. for 20 hours. Water content 1.0 Reactivity 102 seconds 4 Twenty five grams of cake dried in oven National Appliance Co. at 700C. for 20 hours. Water content 0.8 Reactivity 150 seconds 5 Twenty five grams of cake allowed to dry on bench at 0s relative humidity and 24 C. for 20 hours. Water content 1.1 Reactivity 120 seconds 6 Forty grams of cake dried in oven National Appliance Co. at 200 C. for 18 hours. Water ccntent Reactivity 165 seconds The a ehydratio n carried out in A. 2 through 6 illustrates the deco position of the precipitate due to improper dehydration as compared to the proper dehydration carried out in A. 1 . In A. 1 a small amount of precipitate was dehydrated in a high vacuum and the resultant material had excellent reactivity and storabillty. In A. 2 through 6 the precipitate formed a slurry during the dehydration and resulted in a hard, brittle chalk llke solid that had a low water content and a poor reactivity apparently due to not removing the free water from the precipitate being dried rapidly enough. 9. The precipitate cake 250 300 g. is wa,shed twice with 353 g. quantities of 0 5 C. anhydrous acetone. Acetone removed after each wash by suction filtration. The washed precipitate was dehydrated as follows 1 Two hundred grams of cake dried in vacuum oven at 250 C. and less than 1 mm. for 4 hours followed by drying at 860 C. and less than 1 mm. for 18 hours. Water content 8.3d Reactivity 45 seconds Storability excellent 2 Two hundred grams of cake dried in vacuum oven at 25 C. and 10 mm. for 4 hours followed by drying at 740C. and 10 15 mm. for 18 hours. Water content 0.5 Reactivity 135 seconds 3 Twenty five grams of cake dries in a forced draft oven at 470 C. for 20 hours. Water content 2.1 Reactivity 150 seconds 4 Twenty five grams of cake dried in oven at 720C. for 20 hours. Water content 1.0 Reactivity 150 seconds 5 Twenty five grams of cake dried on bench at relative humidity and 240 C. Water content 1.0 Reactivity 150 secondsAs in Part A. the samples dehydrated in B. 2 through 5 are examples of improper dehydration causing decomposition of the precipitate. In B. 2 through 5 a slurry was formed during the dehydration step and a hard, brittle, chalk like material resulted which had low water content and poor reactivity. On the other hand, B. 1 illustrates the proper manner of carrying out the dehydration step as no decomposition occurred and the product resulting therefrom was excellent. C. The precipitate cake is washed twice with a 5 1 ratio ml. solvent g. cake of 250C. methanol. The solvent was removed after each wash by vacuum filtration. The washed preci pitate was dehydrated as follows 1 Two hundred grams of cake dried in a vacuum oven at 250C. and 2 mm. for 4 hours followed by drying at 760 C. and t2 mm. for 18 hours. Water content 3.95 Reactivity 45 seconds Storability excellent 2 Two hundred grams of cake dried in a vacuum oven at 250C. and 7.8 mm. for 4 hours and at 630 C. and 7.8 mm. for 18 hours. Water content 16.1 Reactivity 45 seconds Storability poor 3 Twenty five grams of cake dried in a forced draft oven at 480 C. for 20 hours. Water content 12.7 Reactivity 45 seconds Storability poor 4 Twenty five grams of cake dried in an oven at 400C. for 20 hours. Water content 2.7 Reactivity 45 seconds Storability excellent 5 fifteen grams sample of cake dried on the bench at 39 relative humidity and 24 C. for 20 hours. Water content i5.0 Reactivity 45 seconds Storability excellent The samples dehydrated in Part C. 2 and 3 are Illustrative of a manner of carrying out the dehydration step under the proper conditions but not for a sufficient length of tine, thereb resulting in products that have excellent reactivity initially but that have poor storability. C. 1 , 4 and 5 are illustrative of the proper manner of carrying out the dehydration step and the product resulting therefrom. vXEePLE 6 In a suitable vessel, a mixture of 20.0 g. of calcium oxide and 60.0 g. of water was stirred at ambient temperature for 15 minutes to form a slaked lime slurry. A solution of 90.0 g. of sucrose and 250.0 g. of water was added to the slaked lime slurry and the resulting mixture es stirred 15 minutes at ambient temperature and then cooled to 50. Ten grams of Dicalite Speed Plus was added and the mixture was filtered through 10 g. of Dicalite Speed Plus. Cne filtrate was then cooled to 0 C., 240 g. of ice was added resulting in a mixture containing 2.1 calcium and 13.6 sucrose and 24 liters of CO2 was fed into the mixture subsurface with rapid stirring to form a precipitate. The resulting mixture was stirred for one hour at 20C., then warmed to 0.5 C.and the precipitate recovered by vacuum filtration. The re sulting cake was slurried trice kith 400 g. quantities of 25 C. water. Tne water was removed by vacuum filtration and the cake was then washed with 400 ml. of 250 C. methanol. The mashed precipitate was allowed to air dry at a relative humidity of , and a teperature of about 240C. for 18 hours. The resulting white solid powder had an unacceptable reectivity of 79 seconds. The product apparently changed during the water washing step and upon analysis it was determined that no sucrose was present in the precipitate. EXAMPLE 7 In a suitable vessel, a mixture of 20.0 g. of calcium oxide and 60.0 g. of water was stirred at ambient temperature for 15 minutes to form a slaked lime slurry.A solution of , 0.0 g. of sucrose and 490.0 g. of water was added to the slaked lime slurry and the resulting mixture was stirred 15 minutes at ambient temperature and then cooled to 120C. Ten grams of Dicalite Speed Plus was added and the mixture was filtered through 10 g. of Dicalite SpeedPlus. The filtrate containing 2.1 calcium and 13.6d sucrose was then cooled to 13 C. and 27 1. of CO2 was fed subsurface with rapid stirring to form a precipitate. During this time the temperature rose to 17 C. The resulting mixture was stirred for an hour at about 150 C. and the precipitate recovered by vacuum filtration. The resulting cake was slurried twice with 400 ml. quantities of 250 C. methanol.The methanol was removed by vacuum filtration and the washed precipitate was air dried at a relative humidity of 43 and a temperature of about 24 C. for 18 hours. The resulting fine, white powder had a reactivity of 45 seconds and retained this reactivity during storage. EXAMPLE 8 In a suitable vessel, a mixture of 10.0 g. of calcium oxide rr.4 30.0 g. of water was stirred at ambient te rerature for 15 minutes to form a slaked line slurry. A eclution of 50.0 g. of glucose and 300.0 g. of water was added to the slaked lime slurry and the resulting mixture was stirred and cooled to 50C. The mixture was filtered through 10 g. of Dicalite Speed Plus. The filtrate was then cooled to OOC. and 200 g. of ice was added resulting in a mixture containing 1.1 calcium and 8.5 glucose. Ten liters of CO2 was fed subsurface into the mixture with rapid stirring to form a precipitate. The resulting mixture was stirred for 45 minutes at 2 C., then warmed to 20C., and the precipitate recovered by vacuum filtration. The resulting cake was slurried twice with 150 ml. quantities of 25 C. methanol.The methanol was removed by vacuum filtration and the washed precipitate was air dried for 24 hours at a relative humidity of 20 and a temperature of 240 C. The resulting fine white powder contained about 15.0 0 water, had a reactivity of 0 seconds and retained this reactivity for extended periods of storage. EXAMPLE 9 In a suitable vessel, a mixture of 1162.5 g. of water, 337.5 g. of glucose and 75.0 g. of calcium oxide was stirred for 1 hour at ambient temperature and then cooled to 5 C. Twenty grams of Hyflo Supercel filter aid was added and the resulting mixture was vacuum filtered through 20 g. of Hyflo Supercel. The filtrate was then cooled to 0 C., 930 g. of crushed ice was added resulting in a mixture containing 2.1t calcium and 13. 6 glucose and 40 liters ofCO2 was fed subsurface into the mixture with rapid stirring to form a precipitate.The resulting mixture was stirred at 10 C. for one hour, then warmed to 10 C. and the preci pte wa recovered in a basket centrifuge. The resulting cake wes slurried in 700 ml. of 0 C. water 13 wt.  solids and the slurry was spray dried at 500 S. inlet temperature 300 F. outlet temperature . The resulting fine white powder contained 4.7 water, had a reactivity of 30 seconds and had excellent storability over extended periods of storage. EXt SLE 10 In a suitable vessel, a mixture of 20.0 g. of calcium oxide and 60.0 g. of water was stirred at ambient temperature for 15 minutes to form a slaked lime slurry.A solution of 90.0 g. sorbitol and 250.0 g. of water was added to the slaked lime slurry and the resulting mixture was stirred and cooled to 3 C. The mixture was filtered through 10 g. of Dicalite Speed Plus. The filtrate was then cooled to OOC. and 240 g. of ice was added resulting in a mixture containing 2.1 calcium and 13.1 sorbitol and 2i liters of CO2 was fed into the mixture subsurface with rapid stirring to form a precipitate. The resulting mixture was stirred for 70 minutes at 20C., then warmed to 1 C. and the precipitate recovered by vacuum filtration. The precipitate cake was slurried twice with 400 ml. quantities of 25 C, methanol and twice with 400 ml. quantities of acetone.The solvents were removed by vacuum filtration and the washed precipitate was air dried 24 hours at a relative humidity of and and a temperature of 25 C. The water content of the resulting product was about 17.6 and its reactivity was 45 seconds. However, the product did not retain this reactivity during storage. EXAMPLE 11 In e suitable vessel, a mixture of 60 g. of calcium chide and 180 g. of water was stirred at ambient temperature for 15 minutes to form a slaked lime slurry. A solution of 270 5. of sorbitol and 750 g. of water was added to the slaked line slurry and the resulting mixture was stirred 15 minutes at ambient temperature and then cooled to 50C.Twenty grams of Hyflo Supercel filter aid was added and the mixture was filtered through 20 g. of Hyflo Supercel. The filtrate was cooled to 0 C., 720 g. of ice was charged resulting In a mixture containing 2.1g calcium and 13.6d sorbitol and 41 liters of CO2 was fed into the mixture subsurface with rapid stirring to form P precipitate. The resulting mixture was stirred for one hour at 1 C., then warned to 1 C. and the precipitate was recovered in a basket centriTuge. The resulting cake was slurried in 700 ml. of 0 C. water 11 solids and the slurry was spray dried at 5000F. inlet temperature, 3000 F. outlet temperature. The resulting product contained 4.4 water, had a reactivity of 50 seconds and retained its reactivity for extended periods of storage. E L.PL 12 In a suitable vessel, a mixture of 10.0 g. of calcium oxide and 30.0 g. of water was stirred at ambient temperature for 15 minutes to form a slaked lime slurry.500.0 g. of methanol was added to the slaked lime slurry and the resulting mixture containing 92.5 methanol and 1.3 calcium was then cooled to 12 C. 24 liters of CO2 were fed into the mixture subsurface with rapid stirring during which the temperature rose to 550 C. and then decreased again to 12 C. with E precipitate being formed. The precipitate was recovered by filtration and washed twice with 250 ml. of cold methanol. The methanol was removed by vacuum filtration. The washed precipitate was air dried for 72 hours at a relative humidity of 15 and a teaDerature of 240 C. The resulting product contained 11.7 water, had a reactivity of 60 seconds and was unable to retain this reactivity upon storage. EXAMPLE 13 In a suitable vessel, a mixture of 10.0 g. of calcium oxide and 30.0 g. of water was stirred at ambient temperature for 15 minutes to form a slaked lime slurry. A mixture of 250.0 g. of methanol and 250.0 g. of water was added to the slaked lime slurry and the resulting mixture containing 46. methanol and 1.3s calcium was then cooled to 12.5 C. 52 liters of CO2 was fed into the mixture subsurface with rapid stirring during which the temperature rose to 80C. and dropped again to 12.5 C. with a precipitate being formed. The precipitate was recovered by vacuum filtration and washed twice with 150 ml. of cold methanol.The methanol was removed by vacuum filtration and the washed precipitate was air dried for 72 hours at a relative humidity of 4 and a temperature of 24 C. The resulting product contained 2.7 water, had a reactivity of 50 seconds and retained this reactivity during extended periods of storage. E PLn 14 In a suitable vessel, a mixture of 20.0 g. of calcium oxide and 60.0 g. of water was stirred at ambient temperature for 15 minutes to form a slaked lime slurry.A solution of 90.0 g. of glycerine and 250.0 g. of water was added to the slaked lime slurry. The resulting mixture was stirred and cooled to 5 C. and was then filtered through 1G g. of Dicalite Speed Plus. The filtrate was then cooled to 0 C. and 240 g. of ice was added resulting in a mixture containing 2.3 calcium and 15.0 glycerine and 17 liters of CO2 was fed into the mixture subsurface with rapid stirring at 4 C with a precipitate being formed. The resulting mixture was warmed to 10C. and the precipitate was recovered by vacuum filtration. The precipitate cake was slurried twice with 250 ml. quantities of 250 C. methanol and the methanol was removed by vacuum filtration.The washed pre cipit te was air dried for 24 hours at a relative humidity of 25 and a temperature of 240 C. The resulting fine white powder contained 1. 3 water and had a reactivity of 45 seconds. The product retained this reactivity during extended periods of storage. E cAtPLE 15 Sn a suitable vessel, a mixture of 20.q g. of calcium oxide and 60.0 g. of water was stirred at ambient temper nature for 15 minutes to form a slaked lime slurry. A solution of 45 g. glycine and 250.0 g. of water was added to the slaked lime slurry and the resulting mixture was stirred and cooled to 5 C. The mixture was filtered through 10 g. of DicaliteSpeed Plus. The filtrate was then cooled to OOC. and 240 g.of ice was added resulting in a mixture containing 1.9 calcium and 7.3 glycine and 52 liters of CO2 was fed into the mixture subsurface with rapid stirring with a precipitate being formed. The mixture was then stirred for 30 minutes at 2 C., then warmed to 1 C. and the precipitate was recovered by vacuum filtration. The precipitate cake was sl rried twice with 450 ml. quantities of 25 C. methanol.The methanol was removed by vacuum fi,ltration and the washed precipitate was air dried for 24 hours at a relative humidity of 5 and a temperature of 240C. The resulting product contains 17.7 water and has 2 reactivity of 55 seconds but did not retain this reactivity during storage. EXAMPLE 16 In a, suitable vessel, a mixture of 6o g. of calcium oxide and 180 g. of water was stirred at ambient temperature for 15 minutes to form a slaked lime slurry. 4 solution of 67.5 g. of glycine and 750 g. of water was added to the slaked lime slurry and the resulting mixture was stirred 15 minutes at ambient temperature and then cooled to 5 C. Twenty grams of Hyflo Supercel filter aid was added and the mixture was filtered through 20 g. ofHyflo Supercel. The filtrate was then cooled to 0 C., 720 g. of ice was added resulting in a mixture containing 1.0 calcium and 3.85 glycine and 35 liters of CO2 was fed into the.mixture subsurface with rapid stirring with a pre cipitate being formed.The resulting mixture was stirred for one hour at 1 C., then warmed to 1 C. and the preci rotate was recovered in a basket centrifuge. The resulting cake was slurried in 500 ml. of OOC. water and the slurry was spray dried at 5006F. inlet, 3000 F. outlet temperature. The resulting product contained 3.7 water had a reactivity of 45 seconds and retained this reactivity for extended periods of storage. EXAMPLE 17 In a suitable vessel, a mixture of 10 g. CaO and 0 g. water was stirred at ambient temperature for 15 minutes to form a slaked lime slurry. A solution of 25 g. lysine and 250 g. water was added to the slaked lime slurry and the resulting mixture was stirred 15 minutes at ambient temperature and then cooled to 5 C. Ten grams of filter aid was added to the mixture which was then filtered through 10 g. of fil tey aid. The filtrate was then cooled to 0 C., 240 g. of ice was added resulting in a mixture containing G.6 calcium and 4.57 lyse ar 22.5 liters of CO2 was fed into the mixture subsurface with rapid stirring with a precipitate being formed. The resulting mixture was stirred for one hour at 1.5 C., warmed to OOC. and the precipitate was recovered by vacuum filtration. The precipitate cake was slurried tice with 200 ml. of 250 C. methanol and then twice with 200 ml. of 25 C. acetone. The precipitate was removed fro the solvents each time by vacuum filtration.The washed precipitate was allowed to air dry on the laboratory bench for 18 hours at a relative humidity of 35 and a temperature of 24 C. The resulting product contained 11.7d water and had a reactivity of 33 seconds but did. not retain this reactivity during storage. EXAMPLE 18 In a suitable vessel, a mixture of 70 g. of calcium oxide and 210 g. of water was stirred at ambient tezzerature for 15 minutes to form a slaked lime slurry.A solution of 175 g. of lysine and 1750 g. of water was added to the slaked lime slurry and the resulting mixture was stirred 15 minutes at ambient temperature and then cooled to 5 C. Twenty grams of Hyflo Supercel filter aid was added and the mixture was filtered through 20 g. ofHyflo Sucercel. The filtrate was then cooled to 0 C., 1680 g. of ice was added resulting in a mixture containing o.6F calcium and 4.59 lysine and 37 liters of CO2 was fed into the mixture subsurface with rapid stirring with a precipitate being formed. The resulting mixture was stirred for one hour at 10C., then warmed to 1 C. and the precipitate was recovered in a basket centrifuge. Ene resulting ca .e was slurried in 700 ml. of OOC. water 19 solids and the slurry was spray dried at 5000F. inlet temperature, 3000 F. outlet. The resulting product contained 4.5 water, had a reactivity of 55 seconds and retained this reactivity during extended periods of storage. EXAMPLE 19 In a suitable vessel, a mixture of 75.0 g. of calciti oxide and 225.0 g. of water was stirred at ambient temperature for 15 minutes to form a slaked lime slurry.A solution of 3,7.5 g. of sucrose and 937.5 g. of water was added to the slaked lime slurry and the resulting mixture was stirred 15 minutes at ambient temperature and then cooled to 5 C. Twenty grams of Dicalite Speed Plus filteraid was added and the mixture was filtered through 20 g. ofDicalite Speed Plus. The filtrate containing 3.2 calcium and 21.4 sucrose was then cooled to 2 C. and, with external cooling, 40 liters of CO2 was fed into the mixture subsurface with rapid stirring at such a rate that the temperature did not exceed OOC. with a precipitate being formed. The resulting mixture was stirred for one hour at 0 C. and the preci rotate was recovered in a basket centrifuge.The cake was slurried twice with 1000 ml. quantities of methanol. The solvent was removed after each wash by vacuum filtration.The washed precipitate was air dried for 18 hours at a relative humidity of 15 and a temperature of 24 C. me resulting product contained about 15.0 water ano had a reactivity. cf 55 seconds which it retained for extended periods of storage. EXAMPLE 20 In a suitable vessel, a mixture of 382 g. of water, 9.6 g. of CaO and 9.2 g. of sucrose was stirred at 250C. for 45 minutes, then with ice bath cooling until the temperature of the mixture was 5 C. Five grams of Hyflo Supercel filteraid was added and the mixture was stirred for an additional 5 minutes. The mixture was suction filtered through a filter precoated with Eyflo Supercel.The filtrate was then cooled with stirring to 0 C., 100 g. of ice was added resulting in a mixture containing 1.2 calcium and 7.3 sucrose and 5.5 liters of CO2 was fed into the mixture subsurface with rapid stirring with a precipitate being formed. The resulting mixture was stirred at 10 C. for one hour, then warmed to 10 C. The pre cogitate was recovered by vacuum filtration and slurried 2 takes with 50 g. quantities of 20C. acetone. The solvent was removed after each wash by vacuum filtration. The washed precipitate was dried in a vacuum oven at less than one mm. for 2 hours at 25 C. and for 18 hours at 700C. The resulting product contained 7.5d water and had a reactivity of 50 seconds which it retained during extended periods of storage. EXkMPI E 21 In a suitable vessel, a mixture of 20 g. CaO and 60 g. water was stirred at ambient teeperature for 15 minutes to form a slaked lime slurry. A solution of 22.5 g. glycine Enj 250 g. water was added to the slaked lime slurry and the resulting mixture was stirred 15 minutes at ambient temperature and then cooled to 50C. Ten grams of filter aid was added to the mixture which was then filtered through 10 g. filteraid.The filtrate was then cooled to 0 C., 240 g. of ice were added resulting in a mixture containing 1.0 calcium and 3.8 glycine and , 5 liters of CO2 was fed into the mixture subsurface with rapid stirring with a precipitate being formed. The resulting mixture was stirred for half an hour at l.50C., warmed to OOC. and the precipitate was recovered by vacuum filtration. The precipitate cake was slurried twice with methanol 5 nl. g. and twice with acetone 5 ml. g. .The precipitate was removed from the solvents each time by vacuum filtration. The washed precipitate was allowed to air dry on the laboratory bench for 18 hours at a relative humidity of 40s and a temperature of 240C. The resulting product contained 15. water and had a reactivity of 33 seconds but did not retain this reactivity in storage. EXZ SLE 22 In a suitable vessel, a solution of 34 g. CaCl2, 9O g. sucrose and 310 g. water was cooled to OOC. and 240 g. of ice was added resulting in a mixture containing 0.18 calcium and 13.4 sucrose. The mixture was stirred rapidly while CO2 was fed subsurface. The pH of the mixture was 7.0 at the beginning of the introduction of CO2 and decreased to 3.5 during the CO2 addition. No precipitate resulted after 25 minutes of feeding CO2. EXCt,mLE 23 In a suitable vessel, a solution of 34 g. CaCl2, 90 g. sucrose, 210 g. water and 100 g. 1N NaOH was cooled to 0 C. and 240 g. of ice were added. The resulting mixture containing 0.18 calcium and 15.4 sucrose was stirred rapidly while CO2 was fed subsurface which caused a precipitate to fcrm. T e resulting mixture was stirred for one hour at 1. 50 C., harmed to OOC. and the precipitate was recovered by vacuum filtration.The precipitate cake was washed twice with methanol 5 ml. g. and twice wlth acetone 5 ml. g. . The precipitate was removed from the solvents each time by vacuum ration. The washed precipitate was allowed to air dry on the laboratory bench for 18 hours at a relative humidity of 49 and a temperature of 240 C. The resulting product contained 15.56 water and had a reactivity of 33 seconds but did not retain this reactivity during storage. EXAMPLE 24 In a suitable vessel, a mixture of 75.0 g. of CaO and 225 g. of water was slurried for 15 minutes at ambient temperature, 1275 g. of water w,as added and the mixture was cooled to OOC. To this cold mixture was added 900 g. of ice resulting in a mixture containing 2.2 calcium. With vigorous stirring C02 was fed into the mixture subsurface until no more was absorbed causing the formation of a precipitate. The resulting mixture was stirred for one hour at OOC. then warmed to 1 C. The precipitate was recovered by centrifugation. The cake was slurried with 500 ml. of OOC. water and the slurry was spray dried at 500 F. inlet and 3000F. outlet. The reactivity time of the product was 180 seconds and the product contained 5.6 H20. This example illustrates the need for the presence of a hydrogen bonding material in the precipitated calcium carbonate. EXAMPLE 25 In a suitable vessel, a mixture of 75.0 g. of calcium oxide and 225.0 g. of water was stirred at ambient temperature for 15 minutes to form a slaked lime, slurry. solution of 337.5 g. of sucrose and 1937.5 g. H2O was added to the slaked lime slurry and the resulting mixture was stirred 15 minutes at ambient temperature and then cooled to 6aC. Twenty grams of filter aid was added and the mixture was filtered through 20 g. of filter aid. The filtrate containing 2.0d calcium and 13.2 sucrose was then cooled to 20C. and 602 was fed into the mixture subsurface with rapid stirring causing a precipitate to form. The temperature range during CO2 addition was 20 80C.The re sulting mixture was stirred for one hour at 10C. and the pre cipitate was recovered in a basket centrifuge. Much of the precipitate was lost through the filter paper. 100 g. of wet precipitate cake was slurried with about 300 ml. of ice water and spray dried. The resulting product contained 1.99 water and had a reactivity of 112 seconds. EXAMPLE 26 In a suitable vessel, a mixture of 75.0 g. of calcium oxide and 225.0 g. of water was stirred at ambient temperature for 15 minutes to form a slaked lime slurry. A solution of 337.5 g. of sucrose and 1937.5 g. H20 was added to the slaked lime slurry and the resulting mixture was stirred 15 minutes at ambient temperature and then cooled to 110 C. Twenty slams of filter aid was added and the mixture was filtered through 20 g. of filter aid. The filtrate containing 2.0 calcium and 13.2 sucrose was then cooled to 80C, and CO2 was fed into the mixture subsurface with rapid stirring causing a precipitate to form. The temperature range during CO2 addition was 80 120C. The resulting mixture was stirred for one hour at 7 9 C. and the precipitate was recovered in a basket centrifuge. 150 g. of wet precipitate cake was slurried with 300 ml. of ice water and spray dried. Ine resulting product contained 1.7 water and had a regctl2Jity of 112 seconds. EXAMPLE 27 In a suitable vessel, a mixture of 75.0 g. of cal cium oxide and 225.0 g. of water was stirred at ambient temperature for 15 minutes to form a slaked lime slurry. A solution of 337.5 g. of sucrose and 1937.5 g. of water was added to the slaked lime slurry and the resulting mixture was stirred 15 minutes at ambient temperature and then cooled to 150C. Twenty grams of filter aid was added and the mixture was filtered through 20 g. of filter aid. The filtrate contwining 2.0 calcium and 13.2 sucrose was then cooled to 120C.and CO2 was fed Into the mixture subsurface with rapid stirring causing a precipitate to form. The temperature range duringCO2 addition was 12 17 C. The resulting mixture was stirred for one hour at 140 l60C. and the precipitate was recovered in a basket centrifuge. The 140 g. of wet precipitate cake was slurried with 300 ml. of ice water and then spray dried. The resulting product contained 1.7 water and had a reactivity of 78.5 seconds. EXC PLv 28 In a suitable vessel, a mixture of 75.0 g. of cal cium oxide and 225.0 g. of water was stirred at ambient temperature for 15 minutes to form a slaked lime slurry. A solution of 3375 g. of sucrose and 1937.5 g. of water was added to the slaked lime slurry and the resulting mixture was stirred 15 minutes at ambient temperature. Twenty grams of filter aid was added and the mixture was filtered through 20 g.of filter aid. The filtrate containing 2.0 calcium and 13.2or sucrose was then cooled to 180 C. and CO2 was fed into the mixture subsurface with rapid stirring causing a preci state tD form. The temperature during CO2 addition was 180 230 C. Ene resulting mixture was stirred for one hour at 210 230 C. and the precipitate was recovered by vacuum filtration.140 g. of wet precipitate cake was slurried with 200 ml. of ice water and spray dried. The resulting product contained 0.8g water and had a reactivity of gO seconds. Examples 25 28 illustrate the generally lower reactivities obtained with precipitates formed at increasingly higher temperatures. Heretofore, amorphous calcium carbonate has been obtained by some investigators. However, the heretofore obtained amorphous calcium carbonate has rapidly changed from the amorphous state to a crystalline state. In other words, no prior investigator has been able to obtain amorphous calcium carbonate that will remain stable in the amorphous state for significant periods of time i.e., for periods exceeding about one month . It has now been found that the calcium carbonate provided by this invention is amorphous calcium carbonate that is stabilized in the amorphous state. It has been found that the stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate prepared by the above described process comprises stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate that contains from about 0. 1, to 15 by weight ,chemically bound water and a hydrogen bonding naterial. Stabilized amorphous cal ciu carbonate is a fine, white powder. Analyses show that stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate consists of agglomerates of extremely small particles of calcium carbonate that are substantially amorphous.Comparative analysis of stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate show that the particles of calcium carbonate are apparently stabilIzed in this amorphous state by the presence therein of the proper amount of chemically bound water and a hydrogen bonding material. The analyses of stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate that will be described for Illustrative purposes is that material prepared by the procedure of Example 2, For purposes of brevity and for this description this material will be hereinafter referred to as stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate 2. Stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate 2 was examined under the electron microscope and was studied by X ray and nfrared analyses. Examination under the electron microscope reveals the sIgnificant difference between stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate 2 and te known crystalline states of calcium carbonate calcite, aragonite and vaterite . Calcite crystals appear as well formed cubes uniform in size at a magnification of 4000X.Crystals of vaterite seem to occur as spheres of differing size, while those of aragonite form fairly uniform needles. In contrast, particles of stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate 2 have no distinct size or shape at a magnification of 4000X. Magnified by 2C,COOX, stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate 2 appears to have a rough surface and non uniform size suggesting an agglo berate of smaller particles. Photomicrographs were taken at manifications of 57,OOOX and 147,000X that show spherical particles with an zverage particle size of from about 10A to about 340A at the edge of larger, irregularly shaped glomerates. After determining that the particles of stabilized x DrShous calcium carbonate 2 appear different from the known . rystalline states of calcium carbonate under an electron microscope, further ezzmination was made by X ray analysis.Unlike the knob. n crystalline states of calcium carbonate, stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate 2 gives no X ray pattern et all, that is, stabilized unorFh us calcium carbonate2 is amorphous to X ray analysis. Being amorphous to X ray analysis is due to one of two reasons either 1 stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate 2 is not a simple carbonate, but a polymeric or hydrogen bonded species whose repeating units are irregular or too long to be measured by the X ray analysis, or the particles of stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate 2 arc too small to be detected by X ray analysis. Infrared analysis supports the second reason for stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate 2 being X ray amorphous.Infrared spectra were run on two samples of stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate 2 using the CsI pellet technique giving spectra from 000 cm 1 to 200 cam 1 One of these samples was combined with an extra 10d ground sucrose so as to intensify the peaks caused by sucrose. Upon comparison of these two spectra the peaks due to sucrose become evident allowing the peaks due to te carbonate group to be isolated. Table I shows the result of this comparison. That the remaining isolated peaks are due to the carbonate group is confirmed by comparison of those remaining peaks to the spectra obtained using the tluJol mull technique with calcium carbonate prepared without a hydrogen bonding agent by the procedure of Example 24. Table II shows the results of this comparison. The remaining isolated peaks were compared to spectra for calcite, aragonite and vaterite obtained in our laboratory cn the same instrument. This comparison is shown in Table III ich clearly shows that stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate 2 does, in fact, contain a carbonate grou but that it does not resemble any one particular morphological sta te. The basic dif ference in the spectra of stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate2 and the other known calcium carbonates is that the peaks of stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate 2 are much broader than those obtained with the other crystalline states of calcium carbonate.Additionally, these spectra show that stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate 2 does, in fact, contain sucrose. This conclusion as to a carbonate group is further confirmed by comparison of the peaks obtained with stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate 2 with the values for calcium carbonate shown in the literature. These comparisons are shown in Table IV with calcite, Table V with vaterite and Table VI with aragonite. TABLE IEMI51.1 tb Stabilized SEP Amorphous SEP Stabilized SEP Amorphous tb C lc8am SEP Carbonate 2 SEP Calcium SEP Carbonate SEP 2 tb SEP SEP Extra SEP Su.ar SEP SEP 10 tb SEP CsI SEP Pellet SEP SEP 051 SEP Pellet tb Clove SEP Nurbars SEP cm SEP 3 SEP wave SEP Nu nbers SEP c . SEP tb SEP 440 SEP 3440 tb SEP 2940 SEP 2940 tb SEP 2510 SEP weak SEP 2510 tb SEP 1770 SEP shoulder SEP 1770 SEP shoulder tb SEP 1650 SEP shoulder SEP 1650 SEP shoulder tb SEP 1470 SEP 1470 tb SEP 1285 tb SEP 1245 tb SEP 1210 tb SEP 1165 SEP shoulder tb SEP 1130 SEP ll30 tb SEP 1070 SEP SEP 1070 tb SEP SEP 995 SEP . SEP 995 tb SEP SEP 942 tb SEP SEP 925 tb SEP SEP 920 tb SEP SEP 910 tb SEP 875 SEP 875 tb SEP 8751552 SEP split SEP peak SEP 82 SEP split SEP peak tb SEP 865 SEP 865 tb SEP SEP 700 SEP broad, SEP SEP 700 SEP broad tb SEP SEP 570 SEP broad SEP SEP 570 SEP broad tb SEP 320 SEP 320 tb sucrose, water, sucrose and water, bands with increased intensity 1070 cm 1 and 700 cm 1 bands are due to both sucrose and the carbonate group. TABLE IIEMI52.1 tb SEP Stabilized tb More SEP ups SEP Czl SEP ci SEP m SEP Calcium SEP Carbonate tb SEP Carbon SEP te SEP of SEP Examle SEP 24 tb SEP CsL SEP PeLtet tb ae SEP unbrs SEP cm l SEP a .e SEP Nu3ol SEP l tb JF6O t SEP SEP O tb SEP 4 34 0 tb SEP 3400 tb SEP 2940 tb SEP 2510 SEP weak tb SEP 1770 SEP shoulder tb SEP 1750 tb SEP 1650 SEP shoulder tb SEP 1470 tb SEP 1460 tb SEP 1130 tb SEP 1070 SEP 1070 tb SEP SEP 995 tb SEP r SEP 925 tb SEP 875 tb SEP 86 SEP split SEP peak SEP 867 tb SEP SEP 700 SEP broad tb SEP SEP 570 SEP broad tb SEP 320 tb TABLE IIIEMI53.1 tb SEP StabilIzed SEP orchous tb SEP Calci nn SEP C rbcnate 2 SEP Calcite SEP I iiU,10l SEP Nul SEP i CsI SEP Vaterite tb Csi SEP ellet SEP Csi SEP Pellet SEP I SEP Nujol SEP mul SEP Csl SEP Pellet tb SEP Wave SEP Numbers SEP cm SEP Wa Te SEP Numbers SEP cm tb SEP v SEP G tb SEP 2940 tb SEP 2520 tb SEP 2510 SEP weak SEP 2510 tb SEP 2500 tb SEP 1800 tb SEP 1775 tb SEP 1770 SEP shoulder SEP 1768 tb SEP 1740 tb SEP 1650 SEP shoulder tb SEP 1475 tb SEP 1470 tb SEP 1465 tb SEP 1445 tb SEP 1130 tb SEP 1090 tb SEP 1085 tb SEP 1078 tb SEP 1070 tb SEP SEP 995 tb SEP SEP 925 tb SEP split SEP peak SEP 875 SEP 878 SEP 877 tb SEP 8Qj5 SEP 847 tb SEP 744 tb SEP 715 tb SEP 710 tb SEP SEP 700 SEP broad SEP 700 tb SEP SEP 570 SEP broad tb SEP 320 tb TABLE IVEMI54.1 tb SEP Stabilized SEP .. tb SEP 2 SEP SEP ratio SEP SEP SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP SEP L SEP SEP 3 SEP SEP I SEP Calcite tb SEP CsI SEP Pfr.at2 SEP ,LL SEP 1 31 SEP i SEP 1L1 SEP 171 SEP 5 tb Wave SEP Wave SEP crw SEP 1 SEP Wave SEP Nu.nbe s SEP cm tb SEP 3440 tb SEP 2940 tb SEP 2510 SEP weak tb SEP 1792 tb SEP 1770 SEP shoulder SEP 1792 tb SEP 1650 SEP shoulder tb SEP 1470 tb SEP 1440 SEP 1432 tb SEP 1425 tb SEP 1419 tb SEP 1130 tb SEP 1087 tb SEP 1084 tb SEP 1070 tb SEP SEP 995 tb SEP SEP 925 tb SEP 881 tb SEP 877 SEP 881 SEP 877 tb SEP split SEP 874 SEP 873 tb SEP 847 SEP 847 tb SEP 713 SEP 713 SEP 712 SEP 713 tb SEP 710 tb SEP SEP 700 SEP broad tb SEP h SEP 570 SEP broad tb SEP 320 SEP broad tb SEP Miller, SEP F.A. SEP and SEP Wilkins, SEP C. SEP H. SEP 315 shoulder tb SEP Anal. SEP Chem. SEP 228 shou1der tb 2 SEP Louisfert, SEP J. SEP and SEP 2P8o7beu1i95 T. SEP 228 shoulder tb SEP Compt. SEP rend. SEP 235, tb SEP Angino, SEP B.E., SEP Am. SEP Mineral, SEP 52, SEP 137 48 SEP 1967 SEP 190 shoulder tb , SEP 4 SEP SEP Weir, SEP C. SEP E. SEP and SEP LiDpincott, SEP E.R., SEP Journal SEP of tb SEP Research SEP of SEP the SEP National SEP Bureau SEP of SEP Standards SEP 106 shoulder tb SEP A SEP Physics SEP and SEP Chemistry, SEP Viol. SEP 65A,j Io.3,ay June SEP l9l,p.175. tb SEP 5 SEP Angino,E.E., SEP Am. SEP Mineral. SEP 52, SEP 137 48 SEP 1967 tb SEP 6 SEP Herein, SEP E.P., SEP 2. SEP P., SEP Penland, SEP R.B., SEP Mizushima, SEP S., SEP Curran SEP C., SEP and tb SEP Quagliano, SEP J.V., SEP JACS SEP 81, SEP 3818 SEP 1959 tb TABLE VEMI55.1 tb r SEP StSjFlized SEP end SEP . orphous tb SEP Calctum SEP Carbonate SEP 2 SEP Vaterite tb Csi SEP Pellet SEP II i SEP 1 SEP 3 1 tb SEP Wav SEP Numbers SEP co SEP re SEP ers SEP Cml tb 0 SEP 344C tb SEP 2940 tb SEP 2510 SEP weak tb SEP 1829 tb SEP 1770 SEP shoulder tb SEP 1650 SEP shoulder SEP 1761 tb SEP 1488 tb SEP 1470 tb SEP 1450 SEP 1450 tb SEP 1440 tb SEP 1417 tb SEP 1130 tb SEP 1088 SEP 1090 SEP 1089 tb SEP 1070 SEP 107G tb SEP SEP 995 tb SEP 4 SEP 925 tb SEP 878 SEP 877 tb SEP split SEP 874 SEP 873 tb SEP 865 SEP peak tb SEP 859 SEP 856 SEP 850 tb SEP 745 SEP 747 SEP 744 tb . SEP SEP 700 SEP broad tb SEP SEP 570 SEP broad tb SEP 320 SEP broad tb 1 Louisfert, J. and Pobeguin, T., Compt. rend. 235,287 1952 23 Feron, G. and Fesneau, M., Compt. rend. 243, 1217 1956 3 Weir, C.E. and Lippincott,E.R., Joirnal of Research of the National Bureau of Standards A Physics and Chemistry, Vol. 65A, No. 3, May June 1961, p. 173. 4 Sterzel, W. and Charinsky, E., Spectrochim. Acta 24A, 353 1967 . TABLE VIEMI56.1 tb Stabilzei SEP Amorphous SEP Aragonite tb Czlclrn SEP tars t SEP SEP SEP il SEP I SEP 2 SEP t SEP 3 SEP t SEP Carboate 2 tb SEP Wave SEP iunbers SEP cm l SEP Have SEP liusbers SEP Icm SEP tb SEP 4 3440 tb SEP 930 tb SEP 2510 SEP weak tb SEP 1774 tb SEP 1770 SEP shoulder tb SEP 1650 SEP shoulder tb SEP 1550 tb SEP 1511 tb SEP 1470 SEP 1440 SEP 1475 SEP 1489 tb SEP 1430 tb SEP 1130 tb SEP 1087 SEP 1083 tb SEP 1080 SEP 1080 tb SEP 91070 tb SEP 995 tb SEP SEP 925 tb SEP 877 tb SEP 87 SEP split SEP 866 tb SEP 865 SEP peak SEP 858 SEP 857 SEP 856 tb SEP 857 tb SEP 842 tb SEP 745 SEP 7453 SEP 710 SEP 715 SEP 713 tb SEP SEP 700 SEP broad SEP 713 SEP 713 SEP 710 SEP 703 SEP 700 tb SEP 698 SEP 696 tb SEP 570 SEP broad tb SEP 320 SEP broad tb Murphy, C. 3., Anal. Chem. 38 5 , 443R 451R 1966 . 1 Murphy, C. J. and Chem. T., Compt. rend. 235, 287 1952 . 3 Baron, G. and Pesneau, M., Compt. rend. 243, 1217 1956 . 4 Weir, C.E. and Lippincott, E.R., Journal of Research of the National bureau of Standards A Physica and Chemistry, Vol. 65A, No. 3, 3, May June 1961, p. 173. 5 Sterzel, W. and Charinsky, E., Spectrochim. Acta 24A, 353 1957 . Examination by these different analytical methods indicates that stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate 2 comprises extremely small particles of amorphous calcium carbonate.In this sense, stabilized e morphous calcium carbonate is amorphous in that it has no crystal lattice that can be identified by available analytical means. The amorphous state of stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate was further confirmed by refractive index determinations utilizing a Light Two Beam, Mach Zehnder InterferenceMicroscope for transmitted light Manuf. Erntz Leitz, Wetzlar,W. Germany . This instrument enables one to determine the refractive indices of solids by the interferometer method. With this instrument it was found that not only was stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate clearly isotropic but it gave refractive indices that are distinctly different from the refractive indices found with heretofore known amorphous calcium carbonate and known crystalline states of calcium carbonate. For comparative purposes, Table VII gives refractive indices for calcium carbonate materials found in the literature together with the refractive indices found with products made by the procedures of Examples 2, 11 and 16 mounted in Dow 710 silicone oil with a refractive index of 1.5245 . TABLE VII LiteratureMaterial Refractive Indices Reference n n n r calc te 1.5480 1.4820 1 aragonite 1.5296 1.6804 1.6849 2 vaterite 1.5460 1.6470 3 calcium carbonate hexahydrate 1.460 1.535 1.545 4 calcium carbonate monohydrate 1.590 1.543 5 prior art amorphous calcium carbonate 1.51 1.53 6 Ex. 2 1.5791Ex. 2 replicate 1.5806Ex. 11 1.5850Ex. 16 1. 5830 1 Bailly, Am. Mineralogist, 33,519 1 48 . Yamaguchi, J. Geol. Soc. Tokyo 34, 159 1927 . 3 Yoshimura, J. Geol. Soc. Tokyo , 7 1929. Gibson, Wyckoff, Merwin, Am. J. of Sci. 5 10, 325 1925 . 4 J. Johnston, H. E.Merwin, E.D. Williamson, Am. J. Sci. 4 41,473 1916 . 5 Lippmann, Naturwiss. 46,553 1959 . 6 Johnston, Merlin, WilEanson, Am. J.Sci. 4 41,491 1916 . From Table VII it can be concluded that no significant difference can be attributed to the products prepared with the hydrogen bonding materials sorbitol, sucrose or glycine. As noted before, amorphous calcium carbonate has been reported in several sources Louisfert, J. et al, Compt. rend.235, 287 1952 and Gillott, J.E., J. Appl. Chem. 17, 185 1967 1.Gillott states that carbonation of Ca OH 2 may result in the formation of synthetic amorphous calcium carbonate which crys tallies to calcite in the presence of moisture at room temperature. Our experience with amorphous calcium carbonate agrees with Gillottts findings. We have found, however, that stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate is more resistant to calcite crystal formation than previously known amorphous calcium carbonate. Utilizing stabilized a oihous calcium carbonate as a carbonate factor enables one to prepare effervescent compositions that will rapidly undergo the effervescent reaction upon contact with water and will provide a carbonated beverage that is highly palatable to the consumer. For instance, a typical dry beverage base effervescent composition may comprise a flavor, a sweetener, a color, an acid factor, such as citric acid, and a carbonate factor in less than the stoichiometric equivalent of the acid factor . When stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate. is utilized as the carbonate factor, excellent carbonated beverages result. Typical effervescent compositions are the well known effervescent medicament compositions which comprise an acid factor, such as citric acid, medicaments and a carbonate factor. Utilizing stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate as a carbonate factor in the proper proportions, i.e., sufficient to provide the desired CO2 release, in such a composition will provide medicated beverages with improved taste. Other effervescent compositions illustrating the use of stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate as the carbonate factor termed SACC are shown in Table VIII. Table VIII also shows the volumes of CO2 developed with these effervescent compositions upon contacting them with 178 ml. of water at 40 F. TABLE VIII Ingredient Composition wt. grams 1 7,2 3 4 Flavor 0.08 0.08 Color Sweetener Synthetic 0.09 0.09 Acid Factor Citric 2.60 2.70 1.74 3.30SACC 1.70 1.45 1.30 2.40 Sodium bicarbonate 0.15 0.28 Vol. CO2 developed 2.3 2.3 2.4 3.0 It has been found that excellent sweetened carbonated beverages can be obtained with effervescent compositions containing stabilized amorphous calcium carbonate and the synthetic sweeteners such as, for instance, saccharin, cyclamates, perillaadehyde aldoxin, dihydrochalcone derivatives, dulcin, steriosid, 5 3 hydroxyphenyl lH tetrazole and the newly discovered dipeptides as exemplified in U.S. Patent 3,492,131, BelgianPatent 739,543 and West German Patent 1,936,159 and the like. While the invention has been described herein with regard to certain specific embodiments, it is not so limited.It is to be understood that variations and modifications thereof may be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.