# Derivative of alfa mercaptopropionilglicine having therapeutical activity, process for its preparation and related pharmaceutical compositions.

## Abstract
The thioester of α mercaptopropionylglycine with p iso butylphenylpropionic acid simultaneously shows anti inflammatory and mucolithic activities. It is prepared by reacting a reactive derivative of p isobutylphenylpropionic acid and α mercaptopropionylglycne at low temperature and in a polar solvent. The salts with organic and inorganic bases, with basic aminoacids and with basic antibiotics, are stable and generally water soluble, whereby the active principle of the invention car be formulated for oral, parenteral, rectal and topical administration.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1 Thioester of mercaptopropionylglycine with p isobutylphenylpropionic acid having the formla EMI7.1 and the non toxic and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof with organic and inorganic bases. 2 Thioester according to claim 1, characterized in that said salts are formed with inorganic bases containing alkaline and earth alkaline ions. 3 Thioester according to claim 1, characterized in that said salts are formed with basic aminoacids. 4 Thioester according to claim 3, characterized in that said basic aminoacids are arginine and lysine. 5 Thioester according to claim 1, characterized in that said salts are formed with basic antibiotics. 6 Thioester according to claim 5, characterized in that said basic antibiotics are erythromycin and propionylerythromycin. 7 A process for the preparation of the thioester oflmercaptopropionylglycirie with p isobutylphenylpropionic acid, characterized in that the chloride of the pisobutylphenylpropionic acid is reacted with i mercaptopropionylglycine in a polar medium at an alkaline pH and at low temperature. 8 A process according to claim 7, characterized in that said polar medium comprises water or mixtures of water and dioxane and the reaction temperature is of about OOC. 9 Pharmaceutical composition having anti inflammatory and mucolithic activity, characterized by containing toghether with the common excipients and or solvents, an effective amount of the th ioester of mercaptoprop iony Iglye ine with p isobutylphenylpropionic acid or a non toxic and pharmacologically acceptable salt thereof according to claims 1 to 6. 10 Pharmaceutical composition according to claim 9, in form of tablets syrups and suspensions for the oral administration. 11 Pharmaceutical composition according to claim 9, in form of solution for the parenteral administration. 12 Pharmaceutical composition according to claim 9, in form of suppositories for the rectal administration. 13 Pharmaceutical composition according to claim 9, in form of cream, ointment, aerosol and the like for topical administration.

## Description
Derivative of 9 mercaptopropionilglicine having therapeutical activity, process for its preparation and related pharmaceutical compositions 00000 The present invention relates to a thioester of Ct mercapto propionylglicine with p isobutylphenylpropionic acid and having the formula EMI1.1 having interesting anti infiammatory and mucolithic propertes, aswell as to its non toxic and pharmacologically acceptable salts. The anti inflammatory activity of the p isobutylphenylpropionic acid is known, and there are also known its disadvantages from the therapeutical and use point of view.The compound of the invention, as such or converted to a salt with inorganic bases containing alkaline or earth alkaline ions, or with basic aminoacids, such as arginine ad lysine, or with nuclei of basic antibiotics, such as erythromycin and propionylerythromycin, shows interesting properties, since it is simultaneously endowed with anti inflammatory and mucolithic activity.The present invention relates also to the process for the preparation of the subject compound, which is characterized in that the chloride of p isobutylphenylpropionic acid and thest mercaptopropionylglycine are reacted in a medium having alkaline pH comprising a polar solvent, preferably water or mixtures of water and dioxane, at low temperature, giving place to a low melting thioester which, at room temperature, is an odorless pale yellow oil. The reaction product, as such is devoid of impurities and is utilized in the salt forming reaction with the several bases above referred to, in order to obtain the corresponding salts, which are stable, water soluble and easy to be used in the pharmaceutical field.The following esample illustrates, in non limiting sense, the process for the preparation of the derivative of the invention. EXAMPLE a preparation of the chloride of p isobutylphenylpropionic acidEMI2.1 A flask is charged with 600 mls of chloroform and 250 mlsof SOC12 and this solution is slowly supplemented with 500 g of p isobutylphenylpropionic acid.The latter is dissolved by lowering the temperature to value near 000. Then a heating to 20 250C is carried out and at that point SO2 and HC1 are developed.The heating is showly continued up to 60 63 C, the reaction being monitored on the basis of the gas development and until the latter ceases. The reaction mixture is concentrated under vaccum to eliminate the solvent and the unreacted thionyl chloride, and an oil is obtained which is used as such for the subsecuent reaction. There are obtained 540 g of the chloride of the p isobutylphenylpropionic acid b preparation of p isobutylphenylprop ionoyl ot mercaptoprop iony Iglyc ineEMI2.2 In a flask having a stirrer, 10 g of the sodium salt of L mercaptopropionylglycine and then 80 mlsof water are charged.A cooling is carried out so that the internal temperature is about OOC. At this point the simultaneous addition, through two drop adding funnels, of 2,2, g of NaOH dissolved in 15 mls of water and of 12,5 g of the previously obtained chloride is started. The addition takes place by maintaining the temperature always at about OOC and for a time of about 3 hours. After that time the temperature is let to slowly rise up to the room temperature, a control sample being taken. The pH of the solution is neutral.There are added 80 mls of water and the mixture is made acidic with concentrated HCl until pH l. The reaction mixture is extracted with methyl isobutylketone and separated from the aqueous phase.The methylisobytylketone solution is dried and is concentrated to dryness c Preparation of the L lysine salt of p isobutylphenylpropionoylthio mercaptopropionylglycine 1 mole of p isobuty lpheny lprop ionoy 1th io o mercaptoprop iony lglyc ine acid dissolved in alcohol is reacted with a water solution of L lysine base at a concentration of 50 and there is obtained, with a yield of 72 , a pure crystalline product formed by the L lysine salt of p isobutylphenylpropionoylth io Ot mercapto propionylglycine, having melting point of 152 153 C. By proceeding in a like manner, but using DL lysine base, the salt obtained has a melting point of 125 1270C. d preparation of the propionylerythromycin salt of p isobutylphenylpropionoylthio p4 mercaptopropionylglycine The salt forming reaction takes place in an aqueous solution of 2 methylisobutylketone or in alcohol with a yield of 85 of the theoretical value, between one mole of prop iony lerythromyc in and one mole of p isobuty Ipheny Iprop ionoylth jo o mercaptopropionylglycine. The product is in form of straw coloured crystals having melting point of 71 720 0. By proceeding in a like manner, but using one mole of erythromycin base, the related salt is obtained having a melting point of 65 67 C. The inorganic salts of sodium and potassium are highly soluble in water, whereas the calcium and magnesium salts are insoluble. They can be obtained from p isobutylphenylpropionoylthio alpha mercaptopropionylglycine acid and preferably by reaction with the respective alkaline or earth alkaline carbonates or bicarbonates.All the salts are partially or totally soluble in alcohols.The derivative according to the invention has been the subject of pharmacological tests aiming to determine both the toxicity and the therapeutical effects.1 Acute toxicitySprague Dawley albine rats having an average weight of 120 5 g and of both sexes were used.For each compound 40 rats were treated. The test compound as a suspension in 5 arabic gum was administered through a gastric probe.The results were evaluated ten days after the administration.The data reported in the table demonstrate that it was not possible to obtain a value of the LD 50, since also a dosage of 900 mg Kg did not cause any lethal effect, as it is seen from the enclosed table 1. TABLE 1Acute toxicity by oral route in the rat.EMI4.1 tb TREATMENT SEP dead living SEP X SEP mortality tb SEP 150 SEP 0 8 SEP 0 tb SEP 300 SEP 0 8 SEP 0 tb SEP 450 SEP 0 8 SEP 0 tb SEP 600 SEP 0 8 SEP 0 tb SEP 900 SEP 0 8 SEP 0 tb Lb50 SEP 900 SEP me SEP mglkg SEP tb 2 Anti inflammatory activityThe tests used for the evaluation of the anti inflammatory activity were respectively that of the kaolin and that of the egg white.a Anti inflammatory activity in the kaolin test. For each compound 16 rats of male sex, of the Sprague Dawley strain and of 200 250 g of body weight, were used. The rats were divided into four groups each comprising four rats. All the animals were injected with a 10 suspension of kaolin. The first group was used as the control, whereas the other three groups were administered with doses respectively of 50,75 and 100 mg Kg. The measurements of the diameters of the articulation were effected one hour after the kaolin injection and then every 24 hours.The obtained data are reported in the table 2. The inoculation of kaolin caused an increase of the tibio tarsal articulation which has been partially limited by the treatment with the test compound.TABLE 2Kaolin testEMI5.1 tb SEP DOSES SEP ANTI INFLAMMATORY SEP ACTIVITY SEP X tb Contro Is SEP tb kaolin tb SEP 50 SEP mg kg tb SEP 75 SEP mg kg SEP 10 tb 100 SEP mglkg SEP 26 tb b Egg white test.For each compound 16 male rats, of the Sprague Dawley strain and weighing 300 g, were used. The animals were dividedin four groups each comprising four rats.The first group served as a control, whereas the other three groups were orally administered, with a 30 minute interval, with two doses of 50,75 and 100 mg Kg of the test compound.The last administration was immediately followed by the inoculation of 0,1 ml of egg white in the rear paw of all the animals, including the controls. The measurements of the diameters of the articulations were effected 3 and 4 hours later.The data obtained in the present test are reported in the table 3.TABLE 3 Egg white testEMI6.1 tb SEP I SEP I tb SEP DOSES SEP I SEP ANTI INFLAMMATORY SEP ACTIVITY SEP X SEP I tb SEP I SEP I tb SEP I SEP I tb SEP tb SEP I SEP I tb SEP Controls SEP I SEP SEP I tb SEP I SEP I tb SEP 50 SEP mg Kg tb SEP I SEP I tb SEP 75 SEP mg kg SEP I SEP SEP I tb SEP I SEP I tb SEP 100 SEP mg Kg SEP 1 SEP 26 tb SEP I SEP I tb SEP I SEP I tb SEP I SEP I tb The subject compound was also tested with respect to a possible teratogenic action, by administering to female rats a dose of 50 mg Kg from the beginning up to the 19 20 day of gestation. It has been found that no significant difference exists as regards the reabsorption number and the foeti in the treated rats with respect to the controls. Also the weight of the foeti did not revealed whatsoever anomaly.The thioester of ed mercaptopropionylglycine with p isobutylphenylpropionic acid according to the present invention and the aforesaid salts are formulated by the known techniques, excipients, solvents, fillers, etc, giving place to pharmaceutical compositions in form of tablets, suppositories, injectable slutions, suspensions, syrups, emulsions, creams and aerosols.In fact the stability and solubility of the subject compound and of its salts allow for such a complete range of uses.