# Preparation of dihalovinylcyclopropane carboxylic acids.

## Abstract
A process for the preparation of a compound of the general formula

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for the preparation of a compound of the general formulaEMI9.1 in which each of xl and X2 independently represents a fluorine, chlorine or bromine atom characterised in that a compound of the general formulaEMI9.2 in which X and X2 have the meanings given above and X3 represents a chlorine1 bromine or iodine atom is reacted with a compound of the general formula PHal3 in which eachHal independently represents a chlorine or bromine atom, in the presence of zinc. 2. A process according to Claim 1, characterised in that X and X2 both represent bromine or chlorine atoms. 3. A process according to Claim 1 or 2 characterised in that all Hal s represent chlorine atoms. 4. A process according to any one of claims 1 to 3 characterised in that the reaction temperature is in the range 0 to 500C. 5. A process according to any one of claims 1 to 4, characterised in that at least two moles of zinc and at least one mole of the compound PHal3 are used per mole of compound of the general formula II.

## Description
PREPARATION OF DIXALOVINYLCYCLOPROPANE CARBOXYLIC ACIDS This invention relates to a process for the preparation of dihalovinylcyclopropane carboxylic acids. US Patent Specification No. 4166063, dicloses that reaction of a cis hydroxy acid of the general formulaEMI1.1 in which X , X and X3 when identical are selected from the group consisting of chlorine and bromine and when at least two are different are selected from the group consisting of fluorine, chlorine and bromine, with a dehydrating agent, produces a lactone of the general formulaEMI1.2 which can be isolated and converted using a reducing agent, such as zinc and acetic acid, manganese, or a zinc copper couple, into the corresponding cis dihalovinylcyclopropane carboxylic acid. The two step reaction can of course only be used to prepare a cis compound from a cis starting material, since the intermediate lactone cannot exist in trans configuration. The Applicants have now found that this conversion can be carried out using a single step process. Moreover, this single step process is applicable to the preparation of both cis and trans compounds. The invention provides a process for the preparation of a compound of the general formulaEMI2.1 in which each of xl and X2 independently represents a fluorine, chlorine or bromine atom, which comprises. reacting a compound of the general formulaEMI2.2 in which X and X2 have the meanings given above and X3 represents a chlorine, bromine or iodine atom, with a compound of the general formula PEal3 in which each Hal independently represents a chlorine or bromine atom in the presence of zinc. The substituents ss and X2 may be the same or different, but are preferably the same. Preferably X1 and X2 both represent bromine atoms or, especially, chlorine atoms. If two or three of X1, x2 and X3 represent different halogen atoms, it is the halogen atom of highest molecular weight which is removed during the process.Thus, for example, to prepare a compound of the general formula I in which both X and X starting material is used in which X3 also represents a bromine atom or represents an iodine atom, while to prepare a compound of the general formula I in which both xl and X2 represent chlorineatoms, a starting material in which X3 represents either a chlorine or a bromine or an iodine atom may be used. Preferably xl, X and X3 all represent chlorine atoms. In the compound PHal3, the Hal s may be the same or different, but are preferably the same. Preferably they are all chlorine atoms. The compounds of the general formula I and II exist in the form of optical and geometric isomers, and generally, the configuration present in the starting material is retained in the productI after the process of the invention has been carried out. Thus a starting material in which the xlX2X3C.CR.OH and COOH groups are cis or trans to each other may be converted into the compound of formula I with corresponding geometry. Mixtures of isomers can of course be used. Similarly, the use of an optically active starting material can lead to an optically active product, for example one having the R configuration about the cyclopropane carbon atom bearing the COOH group. It is essential that the reaction of the compound of the general formula II with the phosphorus trihalide occurs in the presence of zinc. Thus for example the three reactants may be admixed simultaneously, or the zinc may be admixed with the compound of general formula II before the addition of the phosphorus trihalide. If the phosphorus trihalide is permitted to react with the compound of the general formula II without zinc being present then complex reactions may occur. For example, lactone formation may occur as described in US Patent SpecificationNo. 4166063 if the X1X2X3C.CH.OH and COOH groups in the starting material are cis to each other, while anhydride formation may occur if these groups are trans to each other.Once such a reaction has occurred, the resulting product cannot be converted satisfactorily into the desired dihalovinyl compound by reaction with zinc alone. The process according to the invention is suitably carried out in the presence of an inert aprotic solvent, for example an amide such as dimethylformamide or dimethylacetamide a hydrocarbon such as toluene or pentane a ketone such as acetone an ether such as tetrahydrofuran sulpholane, N,N dimethylpyrrolidone or dimethylsulphoxide. Mixtures of solvents are often suitable. The reaction is suitably carried out at a temperature in the range 10 to 1000C, especially 0 to 500C. Room temperature is often most convenient. The molar ratios of the reactants used are not critical. In general, it is preferred to use at least one, preferably at least two, moles of zinc, preferably in powder form, and at least one mole of phosphorus trihalide, per mole of the compound of the general formula II. Preferably the molar ratio of zinc to phosphorus trihalide is in the range 1 1 to 5 1, especially 1.5 1 to 2.5 1, and preferably the molar ratio of phosphorus trihalide to the compound of formula II is in the range 1 1 to 5 1, especially 1 1 to 2 1. The starting material of the general formula II may be prepared by any suitable method. Conveniently, a keto acid of the general formulaEMI4.1 in which xl, e and X3 have the meanings given above, is reduced with a reducing agent capable of selectively reducing the keto group. This reduction may for example be carried out using sodium borohydride in an aqueous medium at room temperature or below. The cis or trans relationship of the groups on the cyclopropane ring is maintained on reduction. If a cis keto acid is used, this generally exists in equilibrum with its lactol tautomer which has the formulaEMI5.1 This tautomerism does not however affect the reduction. Under suitable conditions, it is possible to prepare the compound of the general formula II as described above, and then, without intermediate isolation, to convert it in situ by the process according to the invention into the compound of the general formula I. The following Examples illustrate the invention. NMR data are given in units of ppm using tetramethyl silane as standard. The preparation of starting materials and a precursor thereof are also exemplified below, these preparations being labelled A, B and C.A Prenaration of cis 2 trichloroacetyl 3,3 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylic acid and its lactol tautomer A suspension of sodium trichloroacetate 0.74g, 4.Ommol in lOml acetonitrile and caronic anhydride O.5g was stirred for 20 hours at room temperature The reaction mixture was then acidified with 0.5ml concentrated HC1, diluted with water and extracted with dichloromethane. The extracts were washed with water, dried over magnesium sulphate, filtered and evaporated to dryness.0.8g of a white solid were obtained. A solution of this solid inCDC13 was shown by NMR to contain a mixture of cis 2 trichloro acetyl 3 ,3 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylic acid and its lactol tautomer, 4 hydroxy 4 trichloromethyl 6,6 dimethyl 3 oxabicyclo 3 .1.0 hexan 2 one. B Preparation of cis 2 2 ,2,2 trichloro l hydroxyethyl 3 13 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylic acid A mixture of 35mg sodium borohydride and 12Cmg sodium bicarbonate was added while stirring over 5 minutes to 0.5g of the product obtained in Preparation A in 5ml water. lml dichloromethane was added, and the mixture was then stirred for 3 hour at room temperature. The mixture was then acidified with concentrated hydrochloroic acid and the resulting percipitate, after filtering and drying, weighed 0.29g. NMR using hexadeutero acetone as solvent showed the product to be the desired hydroxy acid with purity greater then 95 , and also showed that the reduction had proceeded stereoselectively.Only two of the four possible isomers were present viz. the lRl S and lSl R isomers, the 1 and 1 carbon atoms being marked in the following diagram EMI6.1 Proton NMR 1.28 singlet, 3H 1.42 singlet, 3H 1.63 doublet, 1H coupling constant J 9Hz 1.85 double doublet, 1H J 9Hz 4.92 doublet, lR J 9Hz 5.5 broad singlet, 2H C Preparation of cis 2 1 hydroxy 2,2,2 tribromoethyl 3,3 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylic acid Cis 2 tribromoacetyl 3 , 3 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylic acid 0.2mmol prepared by a method analogous to that described in Preparation A was stirred for 10 minutes with a solution of sodium borohydride 0.8mmol in 5ml water at room temperature.After acidification with concentrated hydrochloric acid and dilution with water, the crystalline reaction product was filtered off and dried under reduced pressure at 400C. The resulting product weighed 13mg and was shown by NMR to contain approximately 5O of the desired product, as a mixture of IHI S and lSl R isomers, the remaining 50 being mainly the endo isomer of 4 dibromomethyl 6,6 dimethyl 3 oxabicyclo 3.1.O hexan 2 one. Example 1 Preparation of cis 2 2,2 dichlorovinyl 3,3 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylic acid An NMR tube was charged with 0.l6mmol of 2 2,2,2 trichlorol hydroxyethyl 3,3 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylic acid and 0.32mmo1 of zinc powder in 0.4ml dimethylformamide. After cooling to OOC, 0.18mmol phosphorus trichloride were added and the mixture was stirred for 15 minutes. It was then diluted with water, acidified with concentrated hydrochloric acid and extracted with deuterochloroform. The extract was washed with water.NMR analysis showed that the desired product which had been obtained had a purity of 90 , the NMR data being as follows EMI7.1 A and B 1.28 singlet, 6H C 1.83 doublet, 1H JcD 8Hz D 2.04 double doublet, IR JDE 8.5Hz E 6.27 doublet, IH F 10.90 singlet, 1H Example 2 Preparation of cis 2 2,2 dibromovinyl 3,3 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylic acid An NMR tube was charged with 0.167mmol of 2 2,2,2 tribromo1 hydroxyethyl 3,3 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylic acid and 0.33mmol of zinc powder in 0.4ml dimethylformamide. Afterwards, 0.183mmol phosphorus trichloride was added at OOC and the reaction mixture was shaken for one minute. It was then diluted with water and extracted with deuterochloroform. The extract was washed with water and analysed by NMR, which showed that the desired product has been obtained with 70 purity the NMR data being as follows EMI8.1 A and B 1.33 singlet, 6H C 1.87 doublet, 1H JcD 9Hz D 2.03 double doublet, 1H JDE 8.5Hz E 6.77 doublet, 1H F 10.83 singlet, IR