# Novel group VA ylides and process for preparing same.

## Abstract
There are provided novel Group VA ylides defined by the following Formula I The process for preparing these Group VA ylides comprises reacting a ligand defined by the following for mula

## Claims
Claims 1. A Group VA ylide defined by the following formula EMI19.1 wherein R1, R2, R3, R4 and R5 are either alike or different members selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, alkyl radicals having from about one to about 24 carbon atoms, aryl radicals having from about six to about 20 carbon atoms, alkenyl radicals having from about two to about 30 carbon atoms, cycloalkyl radicals having from about three to about 40 carbon atoms, aralkyl and alkaryl radicals having from about six to about 40 carbon atoms, halogen radicals, hydroxyl, alkoxy, or aryloxy groups, hydrocarbyl groups carrying halogen, hydroxyl, alkoxy or aryloxy, and a sulfonato group or an alkyl, aryl, alkenyl, cycloalkyl, aralkyl or alkaryl group carrying a sulfonato group, provided that at least one of R1, R2 and R3 is a sulfonato group or an alkyl, aryl, alkenyl, cycloalkyl, alkaryl or aralkyl carrying a sulfonato group M is sulfur or oxygen and F is phosphorus, arsenic or antimony. 2. An ylide as defined in claim 1 wherein F is phosphorus and M is oxygen. 3.. An ylide as defined in claim 1 wherein each of R1, R2 and R3 is phenyl, one of which is substituted with a sulfonato group. 4. An ylide as defined in claim 2 wherein each of R1, R2 and R3 is phenyl, one of which is substituted with a sulfonato group. 5. An ylide as defined in claim 1 wherein R4 is hydrogen and R5 is phenyl. 6. An ylide as defined in claim 2 wherein R4 is hydrogen and R5 is phenyl. 7. An ylide as defined in claim 3 wherein R4 is hydrogen and R5 is phenyl. 8. An ylide as defined in claim 4 wherein R4 is hydrogen and R5 is phenyl. 9. A process for preparing a Group VA ylide defined by the following formula EMI20.1 which comprises reacting a ligand defined by the following formula EMI20.2 with an alpha substituted ketone or aldehyde or an alphasubstituted thioketone or thioaldehyde defined by the following formula EMI20.3 to obtain the salt defined by the following formula EMI21.1 and thereafter reacting the salt so obtained with a base, wherein R1, R2, R3, R4 and R5 are either alike or different members selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, alkyl radicals having from about one to about 24 carbon atoms, aryl radicals having from about six to about 20 carbon atoms, alkenyl radicals having from about two to about 30 carbon atoms, cycloalkyl radicals having from about three to about 40 carbon atoms, aralkyl and alkaryl radicals having from about six to about 40 carbon atoms, halogen radicals, hydroxyl, alkoxy, or aryloxy groups, hydrocarbyl groups carrying halogen, hydroxyl, alkoxy or aryloxy, and a sulfonato group or an alkyl, aryl, alkenyl, cycloalkyl, aralkyl or alkaryl group carrying a sulfonato group, provided that at least one of R1, R2 and R3 is a sulfonato group or an alkyl, aryl, alkenyl, cycloalkyl, alkaryl or aralkyl carrying a sulfonato group M is sulfur or oxygen F is phosphorus, arsenic or antimony and. X is a halogen radical, a tosyl group or an acetate group. 10. A process as defined in claim 9 wherein E and F are both phosphorus and M is oxygen. 11. A process as defined in claim 9 wherein each of R1, R2 and R3 is phenyl, one of which is substituted with a sulfonato group. 12. A process as defined in claim 10 wherein each of R1, R2 and R3 is phenyl, one of which is substituted with a sulfonato group. 13. A process as defined in claim 9 whereinR4 is hydrogen and R5 is phenyl. 14. A process as defined in claim 10 whereinR4 is hydrogen and R5 is phenyl. 15. A process as defined in claim 11 whereinR4 is hydrogen and R5 is phenyl. 16. A process as defined in claim 12 whereinR4 is hydrogen and R5 is phenyl. 17. A process as defined in claim 16 wherein X is chlorine. 18. A process as defined in claim 9 wherein the reaction between the ligand and the ketone or aldehyde is carried out at a temperature of about 2600 to about 200 C. for about one to about 24 hours. 19. A process as defined in claim 9 wherein the reaction between the ligand and the ketone or aldehyde is carried out at a temperature of about 50 to about 150ZC. for about two to about eight hours. 20. A process as defined in claim 17 wherein the reaction between the ligand and the ketone or aldehyde is carried out at a temperature of about 20 to about 200 C, for about one to about 24 hours. 21. A process as defined in claim 17 wherein the reaction between the ligand and the ketone or aldehyde is carried out at a temperature of about 50 to about 150 C, for about two to about eight hours. 22. A process as defined in claim 9 wherein said salt is converted to the corresponding ylide by reacting with a base at a temperature of from about room temperature to about 200eC. for about one minute to about four hours. 23. A process as defined in claim 9 wherein said salt is converted to the corresponding ylide by reacting with a base at a temperature of from about room temperature to about 50 C. for about one to about two hours. 9 24. A process as defined in claim 17 wherein said salt is converted to the corresponding ylide by reacting with a base at a temperature of from about room temperature to about 200 C. for about one minute to about four hours. 25. A process as defined in claim 17 wherein said salt is converted to the corresponding ylide by reacting with a base at a temperature of from about room temperature to about 50 C. for about one to about two hours.

## Description
NOVEL GROUP VA YLIDES ANDPROCESS FOR PREPARING SAME The subjectmatter of this application is related to our European Patent Application No. 81302658.0 entitled t Nickel Ylides European Patent Application No. 81302659.8 entitled Process for the Preparation of Nickel YlidesContaining Ylide Ligands With a Sulfonated Group V component European Patent Application No. 81302656.4 entitled Process for the Oligomerization of Ethylene and European PatentApplication No. 81302654.9 entitled Process for theOligomerization of Ethylene in Methanol11. Reference is made to applicants following EuropeanApplications European Patent Application No. , filed entitled 11Novel Group VA Salts andProcess for Preparing Same . European Patent Application No. , filed entitled Sulfonated Group VA Ylides and Process for Preparing Same . The disclosures of the foregoing applications are hereby incorporated by reference. Field Of The Invention The present invention relates to novel Group VA ylides which are useful in the preparation of nickel ylide catalysts for the oligomerization of ethylene. This invention also relates to a process for preparing such GroupVA ylides.Description Of The Prior Art It is well known in the art to use a variety of catalysts to oligomerize ethylene to higher molecular weight olefins. The term oligomerize has been employed, and is employed herein to describe the conversion of lower olefins such as ethylene to olefinic products of higher molecular weight, e.g., to dimer, trimer, tetramer and the like. The reaction rate and product distribution obtained are highly dependent on the exact catalyst composition and the reaction conditions employed. Two such general classes of catalysts are the Ziegler types consisting of aluminum trialkyls and the Ziegler Natta types consisting of aluminum alkyls or alkyl halides and titanium halides.Major disadvantages of aluminum alkyl catalysts are their highly reactive and pyrophoric nature and the fact that they must be used at relatively high temperatures, e.g., 200 275 C. and pressures, e.g., 2000 4000 psig 13,790 to 27,580 spa . Although much milder reaction conditions are used when the aluminum alkyls are used in conjunction with titanium halides, product quality and ease of catalyst separation from products of both of these prior art types of catalysts are not as high as desired. An article by W. Keim, F.H. Kowaldt, R. Goddard and C. Kruger entitled Novel Coordination of Benzoylmethylene triphenylphosphorane in a Nickel OligomerizationCatalyst , in Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 1978 No. 6, page 466, discloses the preparation of a nickel ylide by the following reaction EMI3.1 wherein cod represents 1,5 cyclooctadiene and Ph represents phenyl. It is reported that the resultant nickel ylide converts ethylene into alpha olefins or polyethylene. Ahrland et al in an article entltled The Relative Affinities of Coordinating Atoms for Silver Ion. PartII, Nitrogen, Phosphorous and Arsenic , in J. Chem. Soc. 1958 pages 276 288, disclose the sulfonation of triphenylphosphine in fuming sulfuric acid. The product, sodium diphenylphosphinobenzene 3 sulfonate, has the following structure EMI3.2 wherein Ph represents phenyl.Summary Of The Invention The novel Group VA ylides of this invention are defined by the following Formula I EMI3.3 wherein R1, R2, R3, R4 and R5 are either alike or different members selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, alkyl radicals having from about one to about 24 carbon atoms, preferably from about one to about 10 carbon atoms aryl radicals having from about six to about 20 carbon atoms, preferably from about six to about 10 carbon atoms alkenyl radicals having from about two to about 30 carbons atoms, preferably from about two to about 20 carbon atoms cycloalkyl radicals having from about three to about 40 carbon atoms, preferably from about three to about 30 carbon atoms aralkyl and alkaryl radicals having from about six to about 40 carbon atoms, preferably from about six to about 30 carbon atoms a halogen radical selected from the group consisting of fluorine, chlorine, bromine and iodine, preferably chlorine a hydroxyl group an alkoxy or aryloxy group a hydrocarbyl group, such as defined above, carrying ha logen, hydroxyl, alkoxy or aryloxy and a sulfonato group t SO3 or an alkyl, aryl, alkenyl, cycloalkyl, aralkyl or alkaryl group carrying a sulfonato group provided that at least one of R1, R2 andR3 is a sulfonato group or an alkyl, aryl, alkenyl, cycloalkyl, aralkyl or alkaryl, as defined above, carrying a sulfonato group M is sulfur or oxygen, preferably oxygen and F is phosphorus, arsenic or antimony, preferably phosphorus. The process for preparing the novel Group VA ylides of this invention comprises reacting a ligand defined by the following formula EMI4.1 with an alpha substituted ketone or aldehyde or an alphasubstituted thioketone or thioaldehyde defined by the following formula EMI4.2 to obtain the Group VA salt defined by the following Formula II EMI5.1 wherein R1, R2, R3, R4, R5, F and M are as defined above and X is a halogen radical selected from the group consisting of fluorine, chlorine, bromine and iodine, preferably chlorine and bromine, a tosyl group a toluene sulfonate group , or an acetate group. This Group VA salt is reacted with a base to obtain the novel ylide defined byFormula I.DescriPtion Of The Preferred Embodiments To prepare the Group VA ylides of this invention, a ligand defined by the formula EMI5.2 wherein R1, R2, R3 and F are as defined above, is reacted with an alpha substituted ketone or aldehyde or an alpha substituted thioketone or thioaldehyde defined by the following formula EMI5.3 wherein R4, R5, M and X are as defined above. The sulfonated ligand can be obtained in any conventional manner by sulfonating the appropriate trihydrocarbyl phosphine, arsine or stibine, e.g., by sulfonating using S03 in the presence of a strong inorganic mineral acid, such as sulfuric acid, hydrochloric acid, nitric acid, phosphoric acid, etc.It is preferred to use fuming sulfuric acid H2so4. x S03, where x can be, for example, from about 0.1 to about 0.6, preferably from about 0.2 to about 0.4 .The amount of S03 is not critical and can vary over a wide range, for example, at least about one mole per mole of ligand, preferably from about two to about 20 moles per mole of ligand. The two reactants are stirred and heated at a temperature of about 0 to about 200 C., preferably about 40O to about 1000C., for about one minute to about 48 hours, preferably for about 30 minutes to about four hours. Any suitable pressure can be used, although atmospheric pressure is preferred.At the end of this period the reactor contents are cooled to a temperature of about 30 to about 50 C., preferably about room temperature about 26 C. , after which sufficient water and a suitable base, such as an alkaline metal hydroxide, an alkali metal alkoxide, ammonium hydroxide, a hydrocarbyl substituted ammonium hydroxide, etc. are added thereto to crystallize the sulfonated ligand out of solution. For example, the amount of water used can range from about 10 milliliters to about 10 liters per mole of sulfonated ligand. The crystals can be recovered in any suitable manner, for example, by filtration, decantation or by centrifuging. Specific examples of ligands that can be used include allyldiphenylphosphine benzyldiphenylphosphine bis 3aminopropyl phenylphosphine bis 2 cyanoethyl phenylphosphine bis m fluorophenyl phosphinous chloride 4 bromo phenyldiphenylphosphine n butyldiphenylphosphine t butyldiphenylphosphine 2 cyanoethyldiphenylphosphine cyclohexyldiphenylphosphine n decylphenylphosphine diallylphenylphosphine di n amylphenylphosphine di secbutylphenylphosphine dicyclohexylphenylphosphine diethylphenylphosphine di n heptylphenylphosphine di n hexylphenylphosphine dimethylphenylphosphine dimethyl p tolylphosph ine d iphenyl n butoxyphosph ine diphenyl chlorophosphine diphenylenephenylphosphine diphenylethoxyphosphine diphenylmethoxyphosphine d iphenylphos phine beta diphenylphosphinoethyltriethoxysilane di isopropylphenylphosphine di o tolylphenylphosphine divinylphenylphosphine ethyldiphenylphosphine n hexyldiphenylphosphine o methoxyphenyldiphenylphosphine 2 methyl butyl diphenylphosphine methyldiphenylphosphine methylethylphenylphosphine methylphenylphosphine neomenthyldiphenylphosphine pentafluorophenyldiphenylphosphine 2 phenylbutyl diphenylphosphine phenyldi n butoxyphosphine phenyldichlorophosphine phenyldiethoxyphosphine phenyldimethoxyphosphine phenylphosphine ,isopropyldi phenylphosphine n propyldiphenylphosphine o tolyldi phenylphosphine p tolyldiphenylphosphine tribenzylphosphine tris m chlorophenyl phosphine tris p chlorophenyl phosphine tri l naphthyl phosphine triphenylphosphine tris 4 dimethylaminophenyl phosphine tris p fluorophenyl phosphine tris o methoxyphenyl phosphine tris p methoxy phenyl phosphine tri o tolylphosphine tri m tolylphosphine tri p tolylphosphine vinyldiphenyiphosphine sodium diphenylphosphinebenzene 3 sulfonate disodium phenylphosphine bis benzene 3 sulfonate dimethylphenylarsine methyldiphenylarsine triphenylarsine tri p tolylarsine diphenylchloroarsine and triphenylantimony.Specific examples of such alpha substituted ketones or aldehydes and of alpha substituted thioketones or thioaldehydes that can be used herein include phenacylchloride phenacylbromide alpha acetoxyacetophenone alpha bromo 2 acetonaphthone alpha bromoacetone 3 bromocamphor alpha bromo p chloroacetophenone alpha bromo 2 I 41 dimethoxyacetophenone alpha bromoiosbutyrophenone alpha bromo o methoxyacetophenone alpha bromo m methoxyacetophenone alpha bromo pmethoxyacetophenone alpha bromo 4 methylacetophenone pbromophenacrylbromide alpha bromopropiophenone chloro acetone alpha chloro p fluoroacetophenone alpha chlorobutyrophenone p chlorophenacylchloride alpha chloropropiophenone alpha chlorothioacetophenone alpha bromothioacetophenone alpha chloroethylnaphthylketone alpha chloromethylacetate alpha bromomethylacetate alphachloroethylacetate alpha bromoethylacetate alpha chloro propylacetate alpha chlorobutylacetate alpha chlorophenyl acetate alpha chloro p sulfonatophenylacetate alpha bromopropylacetate alpha bromobutylacetate alpha bromophenylacetate and alpha bromo p sulfonatophenylace tate. The reaction between the sulfonated ligand and the ketone or aldehyde is carried out using about equal molar amounts of each reactant while they are dissolved in an appropriate hydrocarbon solvent, such as toluene or tetrahydrofuran, and the reaction is carried out at a temperature of about 200 to about 200 C., preferably about 50 to about 1500C., and any suitable pressure, preferably atmospheric, for about one to about 24 hours, preferably for about two to about eight hours. The reaction mixture is then cooled, preferably to room temperature. If a solid results from such cooling it is recovered in any suitable manner, for example, by filtration, decantation or by centrifuging.If solids do not form, the reaction mixture can be subjected to distillation to remove solvents therefrom, leaving behind novel solid material, which is a salt defined by the following Formula II. EMI8.1 wherein R1, R2, R3, R4, R5, F, M and X are as defined above. To convert the above salt to the corresponding ylide, the salt is reacted with a stoichiometric amount of a base, such as an alkali metal hydroxide sodium or potassium hydroxide , an alkyl or aryl lithium n butyl lithium, methyl lithium or phenyl lithium , an alkoxide sodium methoxide or potassium t butoxide , a hydrocarbyl substituted ammonium hydroxide benzyltrimethylammonium hydroxide , ammonium hydroxide, ammonia, etc. This can be done, for example, by suspending or dissolving the salt in a suitable liquid, such as water, an alcohol ethanol or isopropanol , an aromatic benzene or toluene , a hydrocarbon hexane or heptane , etc.The reaction temperature can range from about room temperature to about 2004C., preferably from about room temperature to about 50 C., and the reaction time from about one minute to about four hours, or even longer, but preferably from about one to about two hours. Elevated pressures can be used, although atmospheric pressure will suffice. If the ylide obtained is a solid, recovery can be effected by filtration, decantation or by centrifuging. If the ylide is dissolved in the solvent, simple distillation is sufficient to remove the solvent, leaving behind the solid ylide. In some cases in association with the ylide so recovered will be the salt corresponding to the base that was used. For example, use of sodium hydroxide produces the corresponding sodium salt. The salt and the desired ylide can be separated from each other in any convenient manner, for example, by extraction with a solvent that will dissolve one and not the other. For example, aromatics, such as toluene, can be used to dissolve the ylide, while water can be used to dissolve the salt. The novel ylide obtained can be defined by. the following Formula I EMI9.1 wherein R1, R2, R3, R4, R5, F and M are as defined above. Specific examples of Group VA ylides defined byFormula I which can be prepared in accordance with this invention are set forth in Table I. In this table and as used elsewhere herein, Ph represents phenyl. TABLE I EMI11.1 Compound SEP R1 SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP R4 SEP R5 SEP F SEP M tb 1 SEP Ph SEP Ph SEP SO3 SEP H SEP Ph SEP P SEP O tb 2 SEP SO3 SEP Ph SEP Ph SEP H SEP Ph SEP P SEP O tb 3 SEP SO3 SEP Ph SEP Ph SEP H SEP Ph SEP P SEP O tb 4 SEP Ph SEP SO3 SEP Ph SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP P SEP O tb 5 SEP Ph SEP CH3 SEP SO3 SEP H SEP OC4H9 SEP P SEP S tb 6 SEP Ph SEP SO3 SEP Ph SEP SO3 SEP O SO3 SEP P SEP O tb 7 SEP Ph SEP SO3 SEP Ph SEP H SEP CH3 SEP As SEP O tb 8 SEP Ph SEP SO3 SEP Ph SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP P SEP O tb The novel ylides of this invention are useful in the preparation of nickel ylide catalysts defined by the following Formula III EMI12.1 wherein R1, R2, R3, R4, R5, F and M are as defined above R6, R7 and R8 can be the same as previously defined forR1, R2, R3, R4 and R5 and E is phosphorous, arsenic, an timony or nitrogen, preferably phosphorus. To prepare the nickel ylide catalyst defined by Formula III, theGroup VA ylide of this invention is reacted with 1 a ligand defined by the formula EMI12.2 wherein R6, R7, R8 and E are as defined above and 2 a zero valent nickel compound or any nickel compound convertible to a zero valent nickel comppund in situ.Specific examples of ligands that can be used include allyldiphenylphosphine benzyldiphenylphosphine bis 3 aminopro pyl phenylphosphine bis 2 cyanoethyl phenylphosphine bis m fluorophenyl phosphinous chloride 4 bromophenyldiphenylphosphine n butyldiphenylphosphine t butyldiphenylphosphine 2 cyanoethyldiphenylphosphine cyclohexyldiphenylphosphine n decylphenylphosphine diallylphenylphosphine di n amylphenylphosphine di sec butylphenylphosphine dicyclohexylphenylphosphine diethylphenylphosphine di n heptylphenylphosphine di n hexylphenylphosphine di methylphenylphosphine dimethyl p tolylphosphine diphenyl n butoxyphosphine diphenylchlorophosphine di phenylenephenylphosphine diphenylethoxyphosphine di phenylmethoxyphosphine diphenylphosphine beta diphenylphosphinoethyltriethoxysilane di iso propylphenylphosphine di o tolylphenylphosphine divinylphenylphosphine ethyld iphenylphosphine n hexyld iphenylphosph ine o methoxyphenyldiphenylphosphine 2 methylbutyl diphenylphosphine methyldiphenylphosphine methylethylphenylphosphine methylphenylphosphine neomenthyldiphenylphosphine pentafluorophenyldiphenylphosphine 2 phenylbutyl diphenylphosphine phenyldi n butoxyphosphine phenyldichlorophosphine phenyldiethoxyphosphine phenyldimethoxyphosphine phenylphosphine isopropyldiphenylphosphine n propyldiphenylphosphine o tolyldiphenylphosphine ptolyldiphenylphosphine tribenzylphosphine tris m chlorophenyl phosphine tris p chlorophenyl phosphine tri 1naphthyl phosphine triphenylphosphine tris 4 dimethylaminophenyl phosphine tris p fluorophenyl phosphine tris o methoxyphenyl phosphine tris p methoxyphenyl phosphine tri o tolylphosphine tri m tolylphosphine tri ptolylphosphine vinyldiphenylphosphine sodium diphenylphosphinebenzene 3 sulfonate disodium phenylphosphine bis benzene.3 sulfonate dimethylphenylarsine methyldiphenylarsine triphenylarsine tri p tolylarsine diphenylchloroarsine triphenylantimony triphenylamine tribenzylamine methyldiphenylamine dimethylphenylamine bis 2 cyanoethyl phosphine bis dimethylamino methylphos phine t butyldichlorophosphine 2 cyanpethylphosphine cyclohexylphosphine di t butylchlorophosphine dicyclohexylphosphine diethylethoxyphosphine diethyl iso propoxyphosphine diethylphosphine triallylphosphine triiso butylphosphine tri n butylphosphine tri sec butylphosphine tri t butylphosphine triethylphosphine trin hexylphosphine trimethylphosphine trifluorophosphine tri iso propylphosphine tri n propylphosphine tris 2cyanoethyl phosphine tris dimethylamino phosphine tris trimethylsilyl phosphine tri n butylantimony triethyl arsine trimethylarsine methyldiiodoarsine trimethylamine triethylamine tributylamine tripropylamine dimethylamine di n hexylamine dicyclohexylamine diethylamine tricyclohexylamine ammonia and phosphine. Specific examples of nickel compounds which can be used include tris triphenylphosphine nickel bis cyclooctadiene nickel tetra3çist triphenylphosphine nickel bis norbornadiene nickel cycloocta 1,5 diene duroquinone nickel dicyclo pentadiene duroquinone nickel bis tetracyclone nickel tetrakisf tr íe thylphosph ine n ickel tris triethylphos phine nickel bis triphenylphosphine nickel dicarbonyl nickel carbonyl nickel II acetylacetonate nickelocene bis triethylphosphine nickel II chloride tetrakis trifluorophosphine nickel nickel acetate nickel bromide nickel carbonate nickel chloride nickel fluoride nickel iodide nickel nitrate nickel sulfate nickel 2,4 pentanedionate bis allyl nickel and nickel dichloride hexaamine. In this step, approximately equal molar amounts of each of the three reactants defined above are dissolved in any suitable unreactive solvent, such as toluene, tetrahydrofuran, dioxane, or other unreactive hydrocarbon solvents, and stirred while maintaining a temperature of about 0 to about 100 C., preferably room temperature, for about one half hour to about 48 hours, preferably about three to about 20 hours, sufficient to ensure complete reaction. Any suitable pressure can be used, although atmospheric pressure is preferred. The solvent can be removed from the reaction mixture in any suitable manner, for example, by distillation, including vacuum distillation, if necessary, leaving behind the novel compound defined above. On the other hand, a second solvent in which the desired product is insoluble, such as heptane, can be added to the reaction product to precipitate the novel compound therein. The novel compound can be recovered, for example, by filtration, decantation or by centrifuging. The following examples illustrate the invention, and are not intended to limit the invention, but rather, are presented for purposes of illustration. Example I illustrates the preparation of a Group VA ylide of this invention Example II illustrates the use of this Group VA ylide in the preparation of a nickel ylide and ExampleIII illustrates the use of this nickel ylide to oligomerize ethylene. Example I To 20 milliliters of 30 percent fuming sulfuric acid there were added slowly with cooling 10 grams of triphenylphosphine. The solution was then heated to 80 C. and every five minutes. the solution was tested by adding one drop of the solution to water until a clear solution was obtained. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature, poured into 200 cc of water and neutralized with 10 percent aqueous sodium hydroxide. After setting the solution overnight at room temperature, the desired product separated by crystallization and was recovered by filtration. The recovered product, sodium diphenylphosphinobenzene 3 sulfonate has the following structure EMI15.1 Compound 1 To 4.65 grams of alpha chloroacetophenone 0.03 mole in 150 milliliters of toluene there were added 10.92 grams of sodium diphenylphosphinobenzene 3 sulfonate 0.03 mole . This was heated to reflux under argon for five hours and then cooled and filtered.A total of 14.52 grams of the novel phosphonium salt EMI16.1 Compound 2 was obtained which was suspended in ethanol water and titrated with 10 percent sodium hydroxide to a phenolphthalein end point. The ethanol was removed in vacuo and the product was washed with toluene to remove a small amount of unsubstituted benzoylmethylene triphenylphosphorane 1.2 grams . A total of 12.89 grams of the following novel phosphonium compound EMI16.2 Compound 3 was obtained in 89 percent yield. Example II To 1.38 grams of bis cyclooctadiene nickel five millimoles in 70 milliliters of tetrahydrofuran there was added a mixture of 1.31 grams of triphenylphosphine five millimoles and 2.41 grams of Compound 3 five millimoles dissolved in 70 milliliters of tetrahydrofuran. This was stirred at room temperature for 18 hours, after which the solvent was removed in vacuo. The resulting product was dissolved in toluene and filtered. Heptane was then added to precipitate the following novel nickel ylide EMI17.1 Compound 4 Example III A run was carried out wherein there was charged 0.1 millimole of the sulfonated nickel ylide catalyst obtained in Example II, Compound 4, dissolved in 100 milliliters of toluene. During the reaction precautions were taken to exclude air contamination by performing the reaction in an argon atmosphere.The reaction mixture was then heated to 50 C. and pressured with ethylene to obtain a partial pressure thereof of 200 pounds per square inch gauge 1400 kPa . The reaction mixture was stirred throughout the reaction period of two hours, during which time the temperature and pressure were maintained constant. At the end of the two hour period the reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and unreacted ethylene removed therefrom by distillation. The amount of oligomer produced was determined and compared with the activity for the compound reported by the Keim et al article previously discussed. The results obtained are set forth in Table II. TABLE II Activity Moles Ethylene Run Nickel Ylide Converted Per Mole ofNo. Catalyst Nickel Catalyst I Keim et al specific catalyst 6,000 II Compound 4 6,965 Reported by Keim et alCompound 4 is more active than the unsulfonated nickel ylide of Keim et al. An additional advantage of Compound 4 over that of Keim et al lies in its easy recovery from the reaction product. Although the invention has been described in considerable detail with particular reference to certain preferred embodiments thereof, variations and modifications can be effected within the spirit and scope of the invention as described hereinbefore, and as defined in the appended claims.