# Trihydrocarbyl aluminium cocatalysts for olefin polymerization, and use thereof.

## Abstract
Catalyst compositions for use in olefin polymerization are a mixture of a TiCl₃, TiCl₄, TiBr₃, TiBr₄ or a mixture thereof on a support b an alkyl metal compound having the formula R Polymerization of an olefin using this catalyst composition is also described.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A catalyst composition suitable for use in polymerizations which comprises a mixture of a a titanium metal compound on a support, said titanium metal being TiCl3, TiC14, TiBr3, TiBr4 or a mixture thereof b at least one alkyl metal compound having the formula. RnMR 3 wherein R is a C1 to C20 primary alkyl, alkenyl or aralkyl group or hydrogen, N is Al, Ga or In, R is a C C20 secondary or tertiary alkyl, neopentyl alkyl, cycloalkyl or a secondary or tertiary alkenyl or aralkyl group , n is equal to 0 2 wherein said composition includes at least one Lewis base with the proviso that the Lewis base does not cause excessive cleavage of metal carbon bonds or loss of active sites, the molar ratio of said alkyl metal compound to said transition metal compound being about 0.5 1 to 200 1 and c a salt of a Group IS to Group IIIB metal, said salt being an alkoxide, carboxylate or aryloxide, the concentration of said metal salt being about 0.1 to 20 moles of said RnMR 3 n compound. 2. A catalyst composition suitable for use in polymerizations which comprises a mixture of a a titanium metal compound on a support, said titanium metal compound being TiCl3, TiCl4, TiBr3, TiBr4 or a mixtures thereof b at least one alkyl metal compound having the formula R3 M wherein M is Al, Ga or In and R is C1 C20 primary alkyl, secondary alkyl, tertiary alkyl, cycloalkyl, alkenyl or an aralkyl group, wberein said composition inciudes at least oneLewis base with the proviso that the Lewis base does not cause excessive cleavage of metal carbon bonds or loss of active sites, the molar ratio of said R R3 5 to said transition metal compound being about 0.5 1 to about 200 1 and c a salt of a Group IA to Group IIIB metal, said salt being an alkoxide, carboxylate or aryloxide, the concentration of said metal salt being about 0.1 to about 20 moles per mole of said R3 M compound. 3. A Composition according to either of claims 1 and 2 wherein said support comprises Mac12. 4. A composition according to any one of the preceding claims wherein said Lewis base is a carboxylic acid ester. 5. A composition according to any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein said Lewis base is a tertiary amine, ester, phosphine, phosphine oxide or phosphate or a mixture thereof. 6. A composition according to any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein said Lewis base is an aryl phosphate, alkyl phosphate, hexaalkyl phosphinic triamide, dimethyl sulfoxide or a mixture thereof. 7. A composition according to any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein said Lewis base is dimethyl formamide, a secondary amine, ether, epoxide,ketone or a mixture thereof. 8. A composition according to any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein said Lexis base is a saturated or unsaturated heterocycle, a cyclic ether or a mixture thereof. 9. A composition according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the titanium metal compound is a mixture of TiC14 and TiC13. 10. A composition according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein said titanium metal compound is TiC14 containing MgC12. 11. A composition according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the alkyl metal compound is RA1K and is formed from the reaction. product of R 2A1X and RMgX , wherein X is a chloride, bromide cr a monovalent anion which cannot initiate polymerization of olefinic monomers and X is an anion which cannot initiate polymerizacion of olefinic monomers. 12. A composition according to any one of claims 1 to 10,EMI44.1 the alkyl metal compound is R2A1R and is formed from the reaction product of R2Mg and R A1X2 wherein X is chloride, bromide or a monovalent anion which cannot initiate polymerization of oletinic monomers. 13. A composition according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the Group IA IIIB metal is magnesium or aluminium. 14. A process for the polymerization of a C2 to C20 olefinic monomer or a mixtures thereof to a homo , co or terpolymer which comprises contacting said monomer with a catalyst composition accord ing to any one of the preceding claims.

## Description
It is well own in the art to use an alkyl menai compound of Groups I III i.n combination with a transition metal compound of Groups IVA VIlI as a catalyst system or olefinic polymerization. Whilc nearly all of the. alkyl metal compounds are effective for the polymerization of ethylene, only a few are effective for the preparation of isotactic polymers of propylene and higher alpha olefins and only Et2AlCl, AlEt3 and i Bu2AlH have any important commercial utility A major cost involved in the polymerization of the alpha olefins is the cost of the catalyst components.Therefore, the cost of the manufacture of the polymer can be effectively reduced by the use of catalyst systems having a higher polymerization activity A further concern s the ability to produce polymers having a minimum amount of caza lyst residues thereby eliminating a costly deashing operation.A still further concern is the ability to produce polymers having a high degree of isotactle stereoregularity thereby enabling the manufacturer to eliminate or reduce the costly operation involving the removal and separation of atactic polymer from the isotactic polymer. The improved catalyst system of the present invention provides a means for the manufacturer to obtain these desirable realizations. The improved catalyst systems of the present in vent ion which are employed in alpha olefin polymerizations include a Group IVA VIII transition metal compound, one or more Lewis bases, and at least one metal alkyl compound at least one of which is a metal trialkyl compound of Al, Ga or In, wherein at least one of the alkyl groups is a C3 t C20 secondary or tertiary alkyl, cycloalkyl, alkenyl or aralkyl group. The transition metal catalyst compound is a GroupIVA VIII transition metal halide, wherein the halide group is chloride or bromide and the transition metal halide may be in the form of solid crystalline compounds, solid solutions or compositions with other metal salts and is supported on the surface of a wide range of solid supports. For highest stereospecificity it is desirable to have the transition metal halide, or its support composition, in the layer lattice structure with yery small crystallites, high surface area, or sufficient defects or foreign components to facilitate high dispersion during polymerization. The transition metal halide component may also include various additives such asLewis bases, pi bases, polymers or organic or inorganic modifiers.Vanadium and titanium halides such as NtC13, VBr3, TiC13, TiCl4,TiBr3 or TiBr4 are preferred, SQSt preferably TiC13 or TiC14, and mixtures thereof. The most preferred TiCl3 compounds are those which contain TiC14 edge sites on a layer lattice support such as alpha, delta, or gamma TiS13 or various structures and modifications of TiC13, MgC12 or other inorganic compounds having similar layer lattice structures. The most preferred TiC14 compounds are those supported on chloride layer lattice compounds such as MgC12. in the support instead of chloride anions, Other anions may be also present such as other halides, pseudo halides, alkoxides, hydroxides, oxides or carboxylates, etc., providing that. sufficient chloride Xs available for isospecific site formation. Mixed salts or double salts such as K2TiC16 or MgTiC16 can be employed alone or in combination with electron donor compounds. Other supports besides MgC12 which are useful are hydroxychlorides, oxides or other inorganic or organic supports. The most preferred transition metal compound is TiC14 containing MgC12 especially in the presence of Lewis bases electron donor compounds . The Lewis bases can be employed in combination with the trialkyl metal compound or wjth the Group IVA VIII transition metal compound or with both components as long as they do not cause excessive cleavage of metal carbon bonds or loss of active sites. A wide variety of Lewis bases may be used including such types as tertiary amines, esters, phosphines, phosphine oxides, phosphates alkyl, aryl , phosphites, hexaalkyl phosphoric triamides, dimethyl sul amides,e.g.foxide, dimethyl formamide, secondary amines, ethers, epoxides, ketones, saturated and unsaturated heterocycles, or cyclic ethers and mixtures thereof. Typical but nonlimiting examples are diethyl ether, butyl ether, tetrahydrofuran, ethyl acetate, methyl p oluate, ethyl p anisate, ethyl benzoate, phenyl acetate, alkyl acetate, methyl octan oate, acetophenone, benzophenone, triethyl amine, tributyl amine, dimethyl decylamine, pyridine, N tnethylpiperidine, 2,2,6,6 tetramethylpiperidine and the like. The most preferred are esters of carboxylic acids such as ethylbenzoate. The salts of Group IA IIIB metals employed with the present catalysts are preferably partially or wholly solubilized by reaction with the alkyl metal components.Particularly useful are the carboxylates, alkoides aud aryloxides of magnesium and aluminum. Non limiting examples include Mg OOCR 2, R OMgCOCR , ClMgOR , Mg OR 2,R 2AlOOCC6H5, R Al OOCR 2, R 2AlOR , and the like, whereR is a hydrocarbyl group. Most preferred are the carboxy late salts of magnesium and aluminum prepared in situ by reacting the organometal compounds with carboxylic acids in hydrocarbon solvents. These salts of Group IA IIIB metals are moke preferably used with the trialkyl metal compounds having the formula R 3M wherein M Al, Ga or Zn, and R is a C1 C20 primary, secondary or tertiary alkyl, cycloalkyl, alkenyl, aralkyl group or a mixture thereof, more preferably at least one of the R groups being ofC3 C20 neopentyl, secondary or tertiary alkyl9 cycloalkyl, alkenyl or aralkyl group.The salt of the Group IA IIIB metal is used at a concentration level of 0.1 to 20 moles of the salt of Grove IA IIIB metal per mole of the trialkylaluminum compound P 3Al, more preferably 0.2 to 5 moles7 and most preferably 0.5 to 1 mole when the oxygen containing croup is alkoxide or aryloxide. When the group is carboxylate, the ratio is 0.1 to 1, preferably 0.1 to 0.5 carboxylate groups per mole of the trialkyl metal compound. The use of these Group Di IlIB metal salts is preferably with the supported titanium catalyst systems as embodied in the present invention. The improved cocatalysts of the present invention have the general formula RnMR 3 n wherein M s Al, Ga or In,R is a C3 C20 secondary or tertiary alkyl, penthylalkyl, alkenyl or aralkyl group, R is a C1 C20 primary alkyl, alkenyl or aralkyl or hydride and n , 0 2 preferably 1 2, and most preferably n 2. Preferably, R is C2 Clo primary alkyl or aralkyl or hydrogen most preferablyR is C2 C4 primary alkyl or hydrogen, preferably not more than one hydrogen being present. The R group is preferably a C4 C16 secondary or tertiary alkyl group or cycloalkyl group and is most preferably one which is not readily susceptible to elimination or displace ment by monomer during polymerization.In addition to the simple secondary alkyl groups other groups are also effective, in which the aluminum is attached to a secondary or tertiary carbon atoms, i.e., cyclohxyl, cyclooctyl, tertbutyl, tert amyl, s norbornyl9 and the like. The most preferred compositions have the formula RnAlR 3 n in which the secondary and tertiary alkyl groups contain 4 10 carbons and n 2. Mixtures of the cocatalysts of this invention with conventional alkyl metal cocatalysts also yield improved results. Suitable non limiting examples include i Pr2AlEt, s BuAlEt2, s Bu2AlEt, t BuAlEt2, t Bu2AlEt, s Bu3Al, 1,1dimethylheptyl AlEt2, s Bu2Aln C16H33, t Bu2AlCH2C6H5, s Bu t Bu Aln Bu, cyclohexyl2AlEt, s pentyl Ali Bu2, t Bu2AlMe, t Bu2Aln C8H17, 2 ethylcyclopentyl 2AlEt, 2 3 ethylnorbornyl AlEt2, 2 norbornyl Ali Bu2, 2 norbornyl 2Ali Bu, acenaphthyl Ali Bu2, cyclooctyl i Bu AlH, 3 ethyl5 ethylidinenorbornyl AlEt2, 9 F bu 9 alunino 3, 3, l bicycio nonane, s Bu2AlH, t Bu2AlH, t Bu2InEt, s Bu2GaEt, neopentylAlEt2, neopentyl2 AlEt and the like0 Preferred compounds include those in the above list which have the formula R1 2AlR 2 1. The most preferred compounds in the above list have the formula R2AlR . One method of preparing these secondary alkyl aluminum compounds is to react internal olefins with AliBu3 or i Bu2AlH to add A1 H across the double bond to form alkyl aluminum compounds. When the double bond is in strained ring compound, AlR3 may be used to add Al R R across the double bond and obtain preferred compounds which are very resistant to displacement or elimination. Strained ring olefins include cyclopentene, norbornene1 norbornadiene, ethylidine norbornene, dicyclopentadiene, and the like.This method is preferred because of raw material availability and simplicity of reaction, although this invention is not limited by the method of synthesis. Other methods include the direct synthesis from the reactive metals and the secondary or tertiry halides, the various organometallic syntheses involving ligand ex change between Al, Ga or In compounds and secondary or tertiary alkyl metal compounds of more electropositive metals such as Groups IA and IlA, and the reaction of the metals with the alkyl mercury compounds. Particularly useful is the general reaction of secondary or tertiary alkyl lithium compounds with R2MX or K 2MX because it takes place readily in dilute hydrocarbcn solutions. Although di secondary alkyl aluminum compounds are preferred to mono secondary alkyl compounds, the moco alkyl types become more effective the greater the steric bulk of the group as long as it does not interfere with active site formation or lead to decomposition under reaction conditions. For the alkyl metal cocatalysts of this invention, the most preferred transition metal compounds contain TiC14 supported on MgC12 and one or more Lewis bases. The concentration of the transition metal in the polymerization zone is 0.001 to about 5mM, preferably less than 0.1my. The molar ratio of the trialkyl metal compound to the transition metal compound is 0.5 1 to 200 1 more preferably 10 1 to 100 1. The molar ratio of Lewis base to organometal compound can vary widely but is preferably 0.1 1 to 1 1. The catalyst system of the invention enables the process for making alpha olefin polymers having a high degree of isotactic stereoregularity to be carried out at a temperature of 25 to 1500C., more preferably 40 to 800C., at pressures of 1 atm. to 50 atm. The reaction time for polymeriza tion is 0.1 to 10 hours, more preferably 0.5 to 3 hours.Due to the high catalyst activity, shorter times and temper atures below 80 C. can be readily employed. The reaction solvent for the system can be any inert paraffinic, naphthenic or aroamatic hydrocarbon such as benzene, toluene, xylene, propane, butane, pentane, hexane, heptane, cyclohexane, and mixtures thereof. Pre ferably, excess liquid monomer is used as solvent. Gas phase polymerizations may also be carried out with or witll out minor amounts of solvent. Typical, but non limiting examples of C2 C20 alpha olefinic monomers employed in the present invention for the manufacture of homo , co and terpolymers are ethylene, propylene, butene l, pentene l, hexene l, octadecene 1, 3methylbutene l, styrene, ethylidene norbornene, 1,5 hexa diene and the like and mixtures thereof. Isotactic polymer ization of propylene and higher olefins is especially pre ferred, including block copolymerizations with ethylene. The trialkyl metal compound and the supported transition metal compound can be added separately to the reactor or premixed before addition to the reactor, but are preferably added separately. Replacing the secondary or tertiary alkyl groups by Sulky or hindercd alkoxy, phenoxy or dialkylamide groups does not provide the improved cata lyst actlvity achieved by the cocatalyst in this invention. An alternative embodisIent of the present invention with respect to the cocatalysts R ER 3 n is to use directly the reaction product ofEMI8.1 exemplified in Belgian patent 863827 orEMI8.2 RMR 2 MgXX as exemplified in Belgian patent 863823, In the case of the formation of R2MR , the metal di or trihalide compounds which are used are selected from the group consisting of a metal halide compound selected from the group consisting of K iX2, tCX3 and mixtures thereof, wherein M is selected from the group consisting of Al, Ga and In, R is selected from the group consisting of C1 toC20 primary alkyl, alkenyl or aralkyl groups or hydride X is selected from the group consisting of chloride, bromide or a monovalent anion which cannot initiate polymerization of olefinic monomers, wherein the anion is selected from the group consisting of alkoxide, phenoxide, thioalkoxide, carboxylate, etc. and mixtures thereof. Typical but nonlimiting examples are ethyl aluminum dichloride, aluminum trichloride, ethyl aluminum dibromide, ethyl chloro luminum bromide, octyl aluminum dichloride, ethyl indium dichloride, butyl aluminum dichloride, benzyl aluminum dichloride, ethyl chloroaluminum butoxide, and mixtures thereof Mixtures of metal halide compounds can be readily employed. The C2 C4 alkyl aluminum dihaliAes are most preferred for high stereospecificity and the monoalkylaluminum dichlorides are most preferred. The diorganomagnesium compound has the general formula R2Mg wherein R can be the same or different and is a C3 to C20 secondary or tertiary alkyl, cycloalkyl, aralkyl or alkenyl groups.Typical, but non limiting examples are s 3u 2Mg, t Bu 2tIg or iPr 2Mg. Mixtures of diorganomagnesium compounds can be readily employed providing at least one secondary or tertiary group is present. The most preferred organic groups are secondary and tertiary alkyl groups, e.g. t Bu or s 8u. The molar ratio of the alkyl metal halide compound R MX2 to the diorganomagnesium compound is critical and is 0.5 1 to 2 1, more preferably 0.7 1, and most preferably 1 1.For the MY,3 compound the ratio is 1 1 to 1 3, most prafer ably 2 3. The number of moles of Lewis base can vary widely but is preferably equal to or less than the sum of the moles of the metal halide compound and the diorganomagnesium compound. The molar ratio of the metal halide compound or the diorganomagnesium compound to the transition metal compound is less than 200 1 and more preferably less than 100 1. The metal halide compound and diorganomagnesium compound can be added separately to the reactor containing the transition metal compound but are preferably premixed before addition to the reactor. Employing either the metal halide compound or the diorganomagnesium compound alone with the transition metal compound does not provide the improved catalyst efficiency and stereospecificity as envisioned in this application. In order to attain this, it is necessary to employ both the metal halide compound ald diorganomag nesium compound in combination with the transition metal compound in the critical proportions as previously defined.The concentration of the transition metal in the polymerization zone is 0.001 to 5mM, preferably less than 0.1mM. In the case of the formation of RMR 2, the metal alkyl compounds which are used are R 2MX or R 3M and mixtures thereof, wherein M is selected from the group consisting of Al, Ga and In, R is selected from the group consisting of Cl to C20 primary alkyl, alkenyl, aralkyl or hydride groups X is selected from the group consisting of a monovalent anior, which cannot initiate polymerization of olefins, such as F, Cl, Br, OR , SR , and OOCR , wherein R is selected frcm the group consisting of C1 to C20 alkyl, branched alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, naphthenic, aralkyl and alkenyl groups, X is more preferably C1 or Br and most preferably C1.Typical but non limiting examples are diethyl aluminum chloride, aluminum triethyl, diethylaluminum bromide, diethylaluminum iodide, diethylaluminum benzoate, diisobutylaluminum hydride, dioctylaluminum chloride, diethylgallium butoxide, diethylindium neodecanoate, triethylindium, dibenzylaluminum chloride and mixtures thereof. Mixtures of metal alkyl compounds can be readily employed. The C2 C4 alkyl aluminum compounds are preferred for high stereospecificity and the dialkyl aluminum chlorides are most preferred. The mono organomagn sium compound has the general formula PvMgX wherein R is a C3 to C20 secondary or tertiary alkyl, cycloalkyl aralkyl or alkenyl groups. X is an anion which cannot initiate polymerization of olefins, such as Cl, Br, OR , SR , and OOCR , wherein R is a C1 to C20 alkyl, branched alkyl, cycloalkyl, naphthenic, aryl, aralkyl, allyl or alkenyl group. Typical, but non limiting examples are s BuMgCl, t BuMgCl, s BuMgOOCC6H5, or s BuMgOC15H31, and mixtures thereof.Mixtures of organomagnesium ccmpounds can be readily employed0 The most preferred X groups are OR andOOCR and the most preferred R groups are secondary or tertiary alkyl. The molar ratio of the organomagnesium RMbX con pound to the metal alkyl compound R 2MX or R 3M is 2 1 to about 1 2, most preferably about 1 1. The number of moles of Lewis base can vary widely but is preferably equal to or less than the sum of the moles of the metal alkyl compound and the organomagnesium compound. The molar ratio of the metal alkyl compound or the organomagnesium compound to the transition metal compound is less than 200 1 and more preferably less than 100 1. The metal alkyl compound R 2MX or R 3M and organomagnesium compound RMgX can be added separately to the reactor containing the transition metal compound but are preferably premixed before addition to the reactor.Employing either the metal alkyl compound or the organic magnesium compound alone with the transition metal compound does not provide the improved catalyst ex ic3ency and stereospecificity as envisioned in this application. In order to attain this, it is necessary to employ both the metal alkyl compound and organomagnesium compound in combination with the transition metal compound in the proportions previously defined. The concentration of the transition metal tn the polymerization zone is 0.001 to 5mM, preferably less than 0.1mM. The advantages of the unique and novel catalyst system and the novel process for the alpha olefin polymeri zations of the present . invention can be more readily appreciated by reference to the following examples and tables.EXAMPLE 1 An aluminum alkyl compound containing both secbutyl and ethyl. groups was prepared by mixing equimolar amounts of sec butyl 2Mg 0.16 Et2O and ethyl aluminum dichloride in hepane, heating to 65 C., 15 minx, separating the magnesium chloride solids and vacuum stripping the clear solution. NMR analysis indicated the composition sBu2AlEt 0.45Et20. Metals analysis showed that only 0.505 Mg was present in this fraction. The above liquid alkyl aluminum compound 0.2 g was used as cocatalyst with 0.2 g catalyst prepared by reacting anhydrous MgC12 5 moles with TiCl4 C6H5COOEt 1 mole in a ball mill 4 days, followed by a neat TiC14 treat at 800C. 2 hours, washed with heptane and vacuum dried. The catalyst contained 2.68 Ti. Propylene was polymerized in 500 ml n heptane at 650C., 1 hour at 765 770 . Polymerization rate was 130 g g cStalyst hour and the polymer insoluble in boiling heptane 97.6 . EXAMPLE 2 Three alkyl aluminum compounds containing sec butyl groups were prepared by reacting the proper stoichiometric amounts or sec butyl lithium in heptane with either ethyl aluminum chloride or diethylaluminum chloride, heating to boiling, filteringd the insoluble LiCl, and vacuum stripping the clear solutions. Nearly theoretical yields were obtained of s BuEtAlCl A , s Bu2EtAl B and s BuEt2Al C . Compositions were established by 1H and 13C NMR and by G.C. analysis of the alkyl fragments. Polymerizations were carried out as in Example 1 using 1 mmole aluminum alkyl compound and 0.2 g of the supported TiC14 catalyst. The results summarized in TableI are compared to those obtained using the control ethyl aluminum compounds. In all three runs with sec butyl alkyls, both activity and stereospecificity heptane insolubles were higher than those obtained with the conventional ethyl aluminum compounds. The trialkyls were far superior to the dialkyl aluminum chlorides and the di sec butyl aluminum ethyl was clearly superior to the mono sec butyl aluminum diethyl compound. TABLE I Rate Run Al Alkyl g g Cat hour HI A EtzAlCl control 48.9 68.0 B s Bu1.07EtAlCl0.93 64.6 79.1 C Et3A1 control 344 8301 D s BuEt2Al 380 90.3 E s Bu2EtAl 357 93.0 EXAMPLE 3 Sec pentyl aluminum diisobutyl was prepared by reacting 19.57 g i Bu2AlH with 75 ml pentene 2 in a glass lined 300 cc bomb at 135 140 C. for 16 hours, then 1500 C. for 7 hours. The solution was vacuum stripped at 250C., yielding 28.1 g of the neat sec pentyl aluminum compound. Propylene was polymerized as in Example 2 using 0.212 g 1 mmole sec pentyl aluminum diisobutyl as cocatalyst. Polymerization rate was 383 g g Cat hr and Z HI 92.7. Comparison with AlEt3 control Ex. 2,, Run C shows that the sec pentyl aluminum compound gave substantial improvement, particuiarly in stereospecificity.EXAMPLE 4 The alkyl metal cocatalysts of the invention are particularly advantageous in having a much smaller effect of concentration or alkyl netal Ti on stereospeci,ficity, thereby simplifying plant operation and permitting better control of product quality. The results are summarized inTable II for di sec butyl aluminum ethyl in contrast toAlEt3 using the propylene polymerization procedure ofExample 2. TABLE II Run Al Alkvl Conc. mum Rate HI F s Bu2AIEt 2 357 93.0 G s Bu2AlEt 4 484 83.4 H AlEt3 Control 2 344 83.1 I AlEt3 Control 4 290 64.9 The above examples illustrate that trialkyl aluminum compounds containing at least one secondary alkyl group are superior cocatalysts in Ziegler type polymerizations of alpha olefins and that di secondary alkyl aluminum compounds are preferred.EXAMPLE 5 Various secondary norbornyl aluminum n alkyl compounds were prepared by reacting the stoichiometric proportions of a norbornene compound with either i Bu2A1H orAlEt3 at elevated temperatures and removing reacted materials by vacuum stripping. Structures were shown by ÚH and 13C NMR to be the expected addition products of Al H or Al Et across the norbornene double bond. These mono and di secondary alkyl aluminum compounds were used in propylene polymerization following the procedure of Example 2. TABLE III Run Al Alkyl Rate HI J 2 Norbornyl AliBu2 344 90.2 K 2 Norbornyl 2AliBu 247 91.8 L 3 Ethyl 2 norbornyl AlEt2 322 92.5 M 3 Ethyl 5 ethylidine 2 247 93.7 norbornyl AlEt2 Other isomers may also be present. Comparison with the AlEt3 control Run C, Example 2 shows that all of the secondary norbornyl aluminum alkyls gave markedly higher heptane insolubles while retain ing high activity. EXAMPLE 6 Sec alkyl aluminum hydrides also give improved results compared to the closely related primary alkyl aluminum hydride i Bu2AlH , following the procedure ofExample 2. TABLE IV Run Al Alkyl Rate HI N i Bu2AlH control 456 83.1 0 s Bu2.6AlH0.4 462 85.8 P AlEt3 control 241 82.3 Q iBu3Al control 264 89.3 s Bu2.6AlH0.4 284 90.7 S s Bu2.3AlH0.7 223 90.1 Another catalyst preparation was used.. It was. made by ball milling 5 moles MgCl2 with 1 mole ethylbenzoate for one day, adding I mole TiC14 and milling 3 days, then treating with neat TiC14 at 80 C., 2 hours, washing with heptane and vacuum dried. The catalyst contained 3.44X Ti. Run 0 using sec butyl groups gave higher activity and stereospecificity than Run N using the closely related, but primary, isobutyl groups. Improved results are also seen versus the AlEt3 control using the same supported titanium catalyst Example 2, Run C . Runs R and S show substantially higher heptane insolubles using two different sec butyl aluminum hydrides compared to control Runs P and Q using AlEt3 and iBu3Ai with the same catalyst. EXAMPLE 7 The procedure of Example 2 was followed except that various Lewis bases were mixed with the aluminum alkyl solution before charging to the reactor. TABLE V Run Al Alkyl mmoles Base Rate 70 HI T AlEt3 control 0.16 Et2O 358 84.7 U s Bu2AlEt 0.16 Et2O 289 94.4 V t Bu2AlEt 0.1 Me p toluate 327 94.0 W t Bu2AlEt 0.3 Et p anisate 79 97.3 X t Bu2AlEt 0.9 Et2O 56 98.0 Y t BuAlEt2 0.9 Et2O 101 97.1 Z t Bu2AlEt 0.2 acetophenone 196 94.2 AA t Bu2AlEt 0.2 ethylacetate 74 97.6 Used catalyst preparation described in Example 6,Runs P S. The improved stereospecificities obtained with the cocatalysts of this invention are further increased by the addition of Lewis bases Runs U AA versus control Runs T andExample 2, Run C . At the higher amounts of base, 97 98 HI was obtained, which is sufficiently high to eliminate the need for rejection of atactic polymer and greatly simplify the process. Activity is decreased somewhat, but it is still 3 5 times that of the Et2AlC1 TiCl30.33A1C13 commercial catalyst rate 20, HI 93 . At somewhat lower base concentrations, activity is 10 20 times higher than the ccmmercial catalyst while still achieving 1 2 higher heptane insolubles. EXAMPLE 8 Following the procedures of Example 2 and Example 7, improved stereospecificity i3 also obtained using t Bu2InEt cocatalyst.EXAMPLE 9 The procedure of Example 6, Runs P S was followed except that 9 i Bu 9 alumino 3,3,1 bicyclononane was used as cocatalyst. Polymerization rate 97.5 g g catalyst hour HI 85.17..EXAMPLE 10 The procedure of Example 9 was followed except that t Bu2Al n octyl was used as cocatalyst. The rate was 212 g g catalyst hour HI 93.07.. EXAMPLE 11 Polymerizations were carried out tn a i liter baffled resin flask fitted with an efficient reflux condenser and a high speed stirrer. In a standard procedure for propylene polymerizations, 475 ml n heptane 1 ppm water containing 10 mmole Et2AlCl 1.20 g , or the mixture of cocatalysts, was charged to the reactor under dry N2, heated to reaction temperature 650 C. and saturated with pure propylene at 765 mm pressure. The TiC13 1.00 g 6.5 mmole was charged to a catalyst tube containing a stopcock and a rubber septuw cap. Polymerization started when the TiC13 was rinsed into the reactor with 25 ml n heptane from a syringe.Propylene feed rate was adjusted to maintain an exit gas rate of 200 500 cc man at a pressure of 765 rn. After one hour at temperature and pressure the reactor slurry was poured into one liter isopropyl alcohol, stirred 2 4 hours, filtered, washed with alcohol and vacuum dried. The TiC13 was prepared by reduction of TiC14 with Et i lCl followed by treatment with diisopentyl ether andTiC14 under controlled conditions, yielding a high surface area delta TiCl3 having low aluminum content. The sec butyl magnesium in Runs B, D and E was obtained from Orgmet and contained 727. non volatile material in excess of the s Bu2Mg determined by titration. IR R and GC analyses showed the presence of butoxide groups and 0.07 mole diethyl ether per s Bu2Mg. A second sample of s Bu 2Mg was used in Runs G and I. It was substantially pure s Bu2Mg but contained 0.33 mole diethyl ether per s Bu2Mg Table VI . TABLE VI Mmoles RateRun TiCl3 EtAlCl2 s Bu 2Mg Et2AlCl g g hr HIA Control 1 a 0 0 10 33 95.2B 1 a 5 5 0 152 52.6C Control 1 b 0 0 10 85 96.3D 0.2 b 0.4 0.2 1.6 123 88.0E 0.2 b 2 2 0 210 49.2F Control 1 c 0 0 5 8 79.5G 1 c 2.5 2.5 0 36 57.6H Control 1 d 0 0 10 20 91.7I 0.2 d 1 1 0 200 57.4 a and b were different preparations of low aluminum TiCl3 catalysts. c Stauffer HA grade TiCl3 hydrogen reduced, dry ball milled . d Stauffer AA grade TiCl3 0.33 AlCl3 aluminum reduced, dry ball milled . Comparison of Runs B, D, E, G and I with their respective control runs A, C, F and H shows that each type of TiCl3 catalyst the novel cocatalyst combination gave 2 10 times higher activity than the customary Et2AlCl cocatalyst. The percent heptane insolubles HI decreased substantially using the new cocatalysts. Thus, these high activity catalysts are attractive for meking low crystal linity homopolymers of propylene and higher alpha olefins.They are particularly attractive for making thermoelastic polymers and amorphous copolymers and terpolyners for elastomers.EXAMPLE 12 A titanium catalyst containing MgCl2 was prepared by dry ball milling 4 days a mixture of anhydrous MgC12 1 mole , TiC14 1 mole and S TiC13 0.1 mole . Propylene was polymerized using the conditions in Zxample 11, Run B and the quantities shown in Table VII. Activity with the cocatalysts of this invention Run L was intermediate between those of the AlEt3 and AlEt2Cl controls Runs J andK , but the stereospecificity as shown by 7. HI was much higher than the controls.The large increase in 7. HI obtained with this MgCl2 containing catalyst is in contrast to the results in Example 1 using TiC13 catalysts in which activity increased sharply but 7c HI decreased. TABLE VII Alkyl Rate Run Catalyst Metals g g Cat hr HI J Control 1 10 AlEt3 79 54.4 K Control 1 10 AlEt2Cl 18 35.8 L 0.2 1 AlEtCl2 42 81.0 1 s Bu 2MgEXAMPLE 13 A titanium catalyst was prepared by dry ball milling 4 days a mixture of 5 MgC12 1 TiC14 and 1 ethyl benzoate, heating a slurry of the solids in neat TiC14 2 hours at 800 C., washing with n heptane and vacuum drying.The catalyst contained 3.78Z Ti. Propylene was polymerized following the procedure of Example 11, Run B except that supported catalyst was used. As shown in Table VIII, all the control runs M through S gave substantially lower activity and or 7. HI than the AlEtCl2 s Bu2Mg combination Run T or AlCl3 s Bu2Mg Run U . If the new cocatalysts simply reacted as the separate alkyl metal compounds, the results should have been like Runs M Q. If the new cocatalysts simply reacted according to the equation AlRCl2 R2Mg AlP2Cl BMgCl, then the results should have been like RunsN P. However, the results in Run T and U are dramatically better, showing the completely unexpected formation ofR2AlR as previously defined. A much smaller synergistic effect was obtained by combining AlEt2Cl s Bu2Mg Run S , but the results were poorer than those obtained with AlEt3. Combining s Bu2Mg with AlEt3 Run R destroyed the activity shorn by AlEt3 alone Run O . Thus, the outstanding results were obtained only when R2Mg was combined with RA1C12 or AlCl3. TABLE VIII Mmoles Mmoles Time RateRun Catalyst Al Cpd Mg Cpd Hrs. g g Cat hr HIM Control 0.2 1 AlEtCl2 0.5 0 N Control 0.2 1 AlEt2Cl 1 47 61.1O Control 0.2 1 AlEt3 1 326 82.6P Control 0.2 0.83 s Bu MgCl 0.25 0 Q Control 0.2 0.83 s Bu 2Mg 0.25 0 R Control 0.2 1 AlEt3 0.83 s Bu 2Mg 0.25 S Control 0.2 1 AlEt2Cl 0.83 s Bu 2Mg 1 165 80.5T 0.2 1 AlEtCl2 0.83 s Bu 2Mg 1 367 91.9U 0.2 1 AlCl3 0.83 s Bu 2Mg 1 220 88.9 EXAMPLE 14 The procedure of Example 13 was followed using 0.2g of the supported TiC14 catalyst together with s Bu 2Mg and various aluminum compounds. TABLE IX Mmoles Mmoles Time RateRun Al Cpd s Bu 2Mg Hrs. g g Cat hr HIV 0.4 AlEtCl2 0.33 1 60 94.5W 1 AlEtCl2 0.41 1 64 76.6X 0.5 AlEtCl2 0.83 1 260 87.2Y 0.5 AlCl2 0.83 2 136 90.7Z 1 AlEtCl2 1 AlEt2Cl 0.83 1 404 86.9AA 1 AlEtBr2 0.83 1 220 88.9BB 1 AlC8H17Cl2 0.83 1 425 88.0CC 0.63 EtClAlN iPr 2 0.53 1 6 DD 1 Br2AlN iPr 2 0.83 1 16 Comparison of Runs V, W and X shows that the highest Z HI is obtained at approximately equimolar amounts of RAlCl2 and R2Mg Run V , that a large excess of RAlCl2 is undesirable Run W and that a small excess of K2Mg increases activity Run X . Activity also increased upon addition ofAlEt2Cl to the AlEtC12 s Bu 2Mg system Eun Z .The remainder of the experiments show that the dibrornide may be used in place of dicliloride Run AA , that long chair. alkyl aluminum compounds are very effective Run BB , but that dialkyl amide groups on the aluminum compound destroy catalyst activity Runs CC and DD .EXAMPLE 15 The procedure of Example 13, Run T was followed except that Lewis bases were also added to the AlEtC12 s Bu 2Mg cocatalysts. Addition of Lewis bases causes a decrease in catalyst activity until it becomes zero at a mole ratio of one strong base per mole of PlC12 R2Mg Table X . TABLE X RateRun Mmoles Base sec Bu 2Mg Time. Hrs. g g Cat hr HIEE 0.24 COOEt a 0.5 174 94.3FF 0.5 Et3N b 1 62 85.5GG 2 Diisopentyl ether 1 127 78.8HH 2 Tetrahydrofuran c 1 0 a Added to the s Bu 2Mg. b Fremixed total catalyst in 100 ml n heptane et 65 C., 5 min. before adding Et3N. c Added to premixed AlEtCl2 s Bu 2Mg. As shown in Run EE, small quantities of Lewis base are effective in improving isotacticity 94.3 HI vs.91.9 in Run T while maintaining high activity nearly 9 times the conventional AlEt2Cl TiCl30.33 AlCl3 catalyst,Example 11, Run H .EXAMPLE 16 The procedure of Example 13, Run T was followed except that xylene diluent was used for polymerization instead of n heptane. Activity was 676 g g Cat hr and the polymer gave 90.9 heptane insolubles. The polymer was precipitated with 1 liter isopropyl alcohol, f filtered, dried and analyzed for metals Found 13 ppm Ti and 83 ppm Mg.Thus at high monomer concentration and longer polymerization times the high efficiency would yield very low catalyst residues without deashing.EXAMPLE 17 The procedure of Example 13, Run T was followed except that polymerization was carried out at 500C. and 80 CBoth polymerization rate and 7. HI decreased with increasing temperature, with the largest decrease taking place above 650C. Table XI . TABLE XI Polymer Time Run Temp. C. Hours Rate HI II 50 1 474 90.4 T 65 1 367 91.9 JJ 80 0.5 148 74.6 EXAMPLE 18 Propylene was polymerized at 690 kPa pressure in a stirred autoclave at 50 C, 1 hour. k second preparation of MgC12 containing TiCl4 catalyst 2.68 Ti , made as inExample 13 except that TiCl4 ethylbenzoate complex was preformed, was used in combination with AlRCl2 R2Mg. High stereospecificity was obtained at high rates and catalyst efficiencies Table XI . TABLE XII g Mmoles Mmoles Run Cat. AlEtCl2 s Bu2 Mg Rate HI KK 0.10 0.5 0.5 1672 88.8 LL 0.10 0.25 0.25 696 95.0EXAMPLE 1 The procedure of Example 13, Run T was followed except that the catalyst of Example 18 was used and 1 mmolef di n hexyl magnesium was used instead of 0.83 mmole s Buj2Mg. The n hexyl 2Mg in Soltrol No 30 was obtained from Ethyl Corporation Lot No. BR 516 . Polymerization rate was 551 g g Catfhr but the polymer gave 76.95 HI which is unacceptable. Thus n alkyl magnesium compounds do not yield the high stereospecificity of the secondary and ter tiary alkyl compounds of this invention.EXAMPLE 20 The procedure of Example 15 Run EE was followed except that a new pure sample of sec Bu 2Ng was used with 0.33 mole diethyl ether instead of ethyl benzoate and the reaction cime was L hr. Rate was 268 g g Cat hr and III 92.2. EXAMPLE 21 A catalyst was prepared by dry ball milling 4 day a mixture of 10 MgCl2, 2 TiC 14, 2 ethylbenzoate and 1 Mg powder, heating the solids in neat TiCl4 2 hours at 80 C., washing with n heptane and vacuum drying Ti 2.16 . Propylene was polymerized 1 hour at 65 C. and atmospheric pressure using 0.20 g of this catalyst under the conditions of Example 13, Run T except only 0.4 nola s Bu 2Mg and 0.4 mmole AlEtCl2 was used. Rate was 240 g gCat hr and Z HI 93.9.EXAMPLE 22 A catalyst was prepared by dry ball milling 1 day a mixture of 5 MgCl2 and 1 ethylbenzoate, adding 1 TiCl4 and milling an additional 3 days, then treating the solids with neat TiCl4 2 hours at 800 C., washing with n heptane and vacuum drying 3.44 7. Ti . Propylene was polymerized following the procedure of Example 13, Run T, except that 1 mmole s Bu 2Mg was used instead of 0.83 mole. Rate was 298 g g Cat hr and 7. HI 89.EXAMPLE 23 Following the procedure in Example 18, two catalysts were made at different Mg Ti ratios. Catalyst A was made with 1 MgCl2 1 TiCl4 ethylbenzoate and B 2.10 Ti was made with 10 MgCl2 1 TiCl4 ethylber.zoate complex.Propylene was polymerized following the procedure of Example 13, Run T Table XIII . TABLE XIII g Mmoles Mmoles Run Cat AlEtCl2 s Bu 2Mg Rate HI MM 0.107A 2 1.66 60 72.0 NN 0.316B 0,25 0.25 512 60.4 00 a 0.316E 0.25 0.25 124 84.2 a Added 0.25 mmole triethylamine to the alkyl metal cocatalysts. These results show that the 1 1 and 10 1 MgCl2 TiCl4 catalyst preparations were not as effective as the 5 1 preparations in preceding examples.EXAMPLE 24 Polymerizations were carried out in a 1 liter baffled resin flask fitted with a reflux condenser and stirrer. In a standard procedure for propylene polymerizations, 475 ml n heptane 1 ppm water containing the alkyl metal cocatalysts was charged to the reactor under N2, heated to reaction temperature 650C. while saturating with propylene at 765 tin pressure. Tile powdered transition metal catalyst was charged to a catalyst tube such that it could be rinsed into the reactor with 25 ml n heptanef from a syringe. The propylene feed rate was adjusted to maintain an exit gas rate of 200 590 cc min. After one hour at temperature and pressure, the reactor slurry was poured into 1 liter isopropyl alcohol, stirred 2 4 hours, filtered, washed with alcohol and vacuum dried. A titanium catalyst supported on gC12 was prepared by cmbining 5 MgCl2, 1 TiC14 and 1 ethylbenzoate, dry ball milling 4 days, heating a slurry of the solids in neat TiC14 2 hours at 800C0, washing with n heptane and vacuum drying. The catalyst contained 3.78 Tic Porticn of this catalyst preparation were used in the experiments shown in Table XIV. Various control runs are shown for comparison with the cocatalysts of this invention Runs A F . The sec butyl magnesium was obtained from Orgmet and contained 727. non volatile material in excess of the s Bu2Mg determined by titration. IR, NMR and GC analyses showed the presence of butoxide groups and 0.07 mole diethyl ether per s Bu2Mg. The various s BuMgX compounds were prepared directly by reacting an equimolar amount ofROH, RSH, RCOOH, etc. with the s Bu2Mg. TABLE XIV 0.2 g Catalyst. 500 ml n C7. 65 C.. 1 hr. Mmoles Mmoles Mmoles RateRun Al Cpd Mg Cpd Base g g Cat hr HIControl 1 AlEt2Cl 47 67.1Control 1 AlEt3 326 82.6Control 1 AlEt2Cl 0.83 s Bu 2Mg 165 80.5Control 1 AlEt3 0.83 s Bu 2Mg 6 Control 0.83 s Bu 2Mg 0 Control 0.83 s BuMgCl 0 A 1 AlEt2Cl 1 s Bu Mg OOC 165 95.2B 1 AlEt2Cl 1 s Bu Mg OC15H31 276 91.7C 1 AlEt2Cl 1 s Bu Mg OC2H5 261 91.4D 1 AlEt2Cl 1 s Bu Mg SC12H25 310 93.2E 1 AlEt2Cl 0.83 s Bu MgCl 1 Et3N 100 94.6F 1 Et2AlOOC 1 s BuMgCl 351 90.5 1 Et s Bu AlCl Compared to the control runs, which gave either low activity or low percent heptane insolubles. 74 HI , the new cocatalyst combinations gave high activity and stereospecificity 90 HI EXAMPLE 25 A second catalyst preparation 2.68 Ti was made following the procedure of Example 24 except that a preformed 1 1 complex of TiCl4 COOEt was used. In Runs G andH, the s BuMgCl Et2O was obtained by vacuum stripping an ether solution of the Grignard reagent. In Run I, the n 9 BuMgOOCC6H5 was made by reacting pure n S Bu 2Mg with benzoic acid. Propylene polymerizations were carried out as in Example 24 Table XV . TABLE XV Mmoles Mmoles Mmoles Rate Run Al Cpd Mg Cpd Base g g Cat hr. HI G 1 AlEtCl2 1 s BuMgCl 1 Et2O 0 H 1 AlFtZCl 1 s BuMgCl 1 Et2O 132 93.1 I 1 AlEt3 1 n s Bu 123 89.7 MgCOCC6H5 Run G shows that monoalkyl aluminum compounds are not effective in combination with the mono organomagnesium compounds in this invention0 In contrast, Example 13, RunT, shows that such monoalkyl aluminum compounds are preferred when diorganomagnesium compounds are used. Runs H and I show that dialkyl and trialkyl aluminum compounds are required with monoalkyl magnesium compounds. EXAMPLE 26 Propylene was polymerized at 6CS kPa pressure in a 1 liter stirred autoclave at 50 C. for 1 hour using the supported TiC14 catalyst of Example 25 Table XV . The Mg compound was made as in Example 24, Run A. TABLE XVI g Mmoles Run Cat. Mmoles Mg Cpd AlEt2Cl Solvent Rate HI J 0.05 0.5 s BuMgOOC 0.5 C7 1292 89.9 K G.10 0.4 s BuMgOOC 0.4 n C7 317 96.9 L 0.10 0.4 s BuMgOOC 0.4 xylene 517 96.5 Comparison of Runs J and K shows that the lower alkyl metal catalyst ratio in K gave higher heptane insolubles. Run L in xylene diluent gave higher activity than K in heptane.EXAMPLE 27 The procedure of Example 25 was followed except that organomagnesium compounds containing alkoxy and ben zoate groups were used in combination with AlEt2Cl together with diethyl ether. The s BuMgOsBu was prepared by reacting a dilute solution of sBurMg containing 0.33 Et2O with one mole s BuOH and used without isolation Run M . The mixture in Run N was prepared in a similar manner by reacting 1.55 mmole n s BuMg with 1.10 s butanol, adding 0.066 Et2O, then wadding this product to a solution of 1 benzoic acid in 275 ml n heptane. TABLE XVII Mmoles Mmoles Run Mmoles Mg Cpd AlEt2Cl Et2O Rate Z HI M 1 s BuMgOs Bu 1 1 3 107 94.6 N 0.45 r s BuMgOCCX 1 0.066 101 95.9 0.55 razzs BuMgOsBu 0.55 s BuOMgOOC Comparison with Example 25, Run H shows that superior results were obtained with smaller amounts of diethyl ether by using alkoxide and carboxylate salts instead of the chloride.EXAMPLE 28 The procedure of Example 7, Run Z was followed except that 0.25 umiole Mg OOCC6H5 2 was used in place of acetcphenone as the third component. The magnesium benzoate was prepared from a dilute heptane solution of benzoic acid and n s Bu2Mg. The t Bu2AlEt was added to the milky slurry of Mg OOCC6H5 2. charged to the reactor and heated to 650 C., 5 min., after which the supported titanium catalyst was added. The propylene polymerization rate was 122 g gCat hr and polymer HI 9707x. EXM4PLE 29 The procedure of Example 6, Run P,, was followed except that magnesium benzoate was used as a cocatalyst modifier, The magnesium salt was made in situ by reacting a hydrocarbon solution of n s Bu 2Mg with two moles of benzoic acid.The salt slurry was reacted with the alkyl metal cocatalyst in 500 ml n heptane at 250 to 65 C. to obtain a soluble product befcre the catalyst was added TABLE XVIII Mmoles Mmoles Run Al Cpd Mg OOC 2 Rate HI A Control 1 AlEt3 241 82.3 B 1 AlEt3 0.25 210 93.0 C 1 AlEt3 0.50 0 D Control 1 t Bu2AlEt 248 93.8 E 1 t bu2AlEt 0.25 125 97.7 When used in small amcunts relative to the aluminum trialkyl cocatalyst, the magnesium benzoate sharply increased stereospecificity as measured by the percent boiling heptane insolubles Runs B and E vs. A andD . Activity decreased somewhat, but the results for both rate and HI were superior to those of conventional TiC13 catalysts Example 11, Runs As C, F and H .At a ratio or 0.5 Mg OOC 2 to AlEt3, the catalyst was inactive Run C .The modifier was effective with both types of aluminum trialkyls, but it gave the highest stereospecificity with the novel trialkyl aluminum cocatalysts of this invention. EXAMPLE 30 The procedure of Example 29, Run B, was followed using various metal carboxylates as cocatalyst modifiers. TABLE XIX Run Mmoles Salt Rate HI F 0.25 Mg acetate 175 94.7 G 0.25 tig neodecanoate 235 91.8 H 0.25 Na stearate 206 92.4 I 0.25 K neodecanoate 211 90.8 Comparison with control Run A, example 29, shows that much higher 7. HI was obtained while still retaining high activity. EXAMPLE 31 The procedure of Example 29 was followed except that various dialkyl aluminum carboxylate were used instead of the magnesium salt. The aluminum trialkyl and carboxylate were premixed 3 5 minutes at 25 C. in 30 ml n heptanes. TABLE XX Run Mmoles Al Cpd Mmoles Carboxylate Rate 7. HI J I AlEt3 1 Et2Al00C 130 97.4 K 1 AlEt3 1 s Bu2AlOCC 232 95.5 L 1 s Bu2AlEt 1 Et2AlOOC 246 94.4 M 1 s Bu2AlEt 1 s Bu2AlOOC 276 91.4 N 1 AlEt3 1 Et2AlOOCC6H3Me2 2,6 262 89cl O 1 s Bu2AlEt 1 Et2AlOOCC6H3Me2 2,6 310 77.7 P 1 AlEt3 a 1 Et2AlOOC a 70 97.8 Q 2 AlEt3 b 1 Et2Al0OC b 239 93.1 R 1 s Bu2AlO0C 0 a Premixed 5 minutes in 30 ml n heptane at 40 50 C. b Premixed in 30 ml n heptane at 60 C, 30 minutes. Comparison with control Run A, Example 29, shows that increased stereospecificity was obtained with all of the alkyl aluminum carboxylates except in Run 0. Higher activities were also obtained in some cases, especially with the 2,6 dimethylbenzoates Runs N and 0 . The ortho substituents are believed to hinder the carbonyl addition reaction which leads to lower activity by consumption of the aluminum trialkyl. Support for this type of side reaction can be seen in the low activity in Run P, premixed in concentrated solution, compared to Run J which was pre mixed in 500 ml n heptane.When sufficient excess A1RJ is 3 used in a concentrated premix with the aluminum benzoate, one regains activity, but the modifier is presumed to be the aluminum. alkoxide products from the carbonyl addition reaction. Run R shows that the carboxylate compound alone is not a cocatalyst, so that the improved results obtained when mixed with AlR3 must be due to the reaction of theAlR3 with the carboxylate modifierEXAMPLE 32 The procedure of Example 29 was followed except that tertiary butyl aluminum compounds were used and the ratio of aluminum trialkyl to aluminum benzoate was varied. TABLE XXI Run Mmoles Al Cd Mmoles Carboxylate a Rate HI S 1 t Bu2AlEt 0.25 t Bu2AlOOC 221 93.4 T 1 t Bu2AlEr 0.50 t Bu2AlOOC 227 94.9 U 1 t Bu2AlEt 1.0 t Bu2A100CX 184 94.6 a May contain some t Bu EtAlOOC as it was prepared by reacting t Bu2AlEt with COOH. Comparison with Example 29 shows that the dialkyl aluminum benzoates were not as efficient as magnesium benzoate, and higher ratios were needed to achieve higher stereospecificity.EXAMPLE 33 The procedure of Example 6, Run P, was followed except that dialkyl aluminum alkoxides were used as cocatalyst modifiers. TABLE XXII Run Mnoles A1R3 Mmoles Al Alkoxide Rate e HI V 0.8 t Bu2AlEt 0.2 t Bu2 AlOCMeEt 196 94.2 W 0.8 t Bu2AlEt 0.2 t Bu2 AlOCEt 2 191 94.6 X 1 AlEt3 506 81.5 Y 1 AlEt3 10 Et2AlOC15H31 113 95.5 Another catalyst preparation was used contained 3.16 Ti . Comparison of Runs V and W with control run D,Example 29, shows that the alkoxide additives increased stereospecificity as measured by heptane insolubles. This was also true for Run Y versus its control Run X . In this case, a large excess of alkoxide was used relative to theAlR3. These results are opposite to those using unsupported TiC13 catalysts in which it is known that dialkyl aluminum alkoxide cocatalysts produce low heptane insoluble products. Since many modifications and variations of this invention may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention thereof, it is not intended to limit the spirit or scope thereof to the specific examples thereof.