# Process for producing malononitrile.

## Abstract
Malononitrile is prepared in a high yield by catalytic oxidative dehydrogenation phase of β aminopropionitrile in a gaseous phase with molecular oxygen in the presence of a catalyst, comprising a oxide composition of, preferably, Mo and at least one other catalytic element, more prefer ably, of the empirical formula I Mo₁₂Bi

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method for catalytically producing malononitrile, comprising subjecting B aminopropionitrile to an oxidation dehydrogenation in a gaseous phase with molecular oxygen. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said oxidative dehydrogenation is carried out in the presence of a catalyst comprising an oxide composition of molybdenum and at least one member selected from the group consisting of titanium, vanadium, chromium, manganese, iron, cobalt, nickel, aluminium, tin, antimony, tellurium, bismuth, thallium, phosphorus, boron, alkali metals, alkaline earth metals and rare earth metals. 3. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said oxidative dehydrogenation is effected in the presence of a catalyst consisting essentially of an oxide composition of the empirical formula I a b c d x I Mo12Bi0124A c d x I wherein A represents at least one member selected from the group consisting of iron and chromium B represents at least one member selected from the group consisting of nickel, cobalt, manganese and magnesium C represents at least one member selected from the group consisting of alkali metals, alkaline earth metals, rare earth metals, tellurium, thallium, tungsten and lead D represents at least one member selected from the group consisting of phosphorus, arsenic and boron a represents the number 0.1 to 24 b represents the number 0 to 24 c represents the number 0 to 2 d represents the number 0 to 5, and x represents the number of oxygen atoms which satisfies the valency of the catalytic elements in the oxide composition. 4. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said oxidative dehydrogenation is effected at a temperature of from 350 to 5500C. 5. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the molar ratio of 8 aminopropionitrile to oxygen is in the range of from 1 0.5 to 1 10. 6. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the. reaction mixture is rapidly cooled to a temperature of 800C or less to allow the resultant malononitrile to condensate. 7. A method as claimed in claim 6, wherein the pH of the resultant condensate is adjusted to a value of 7.0 or less.

## Description
PROCESS FOR PRODUCING MALONONITRILE FIELD OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to a process for producing malononitrile. More particularly, the present invention relates to a process for producing malononitrile from 8 aminopropionitrile by means of a gaseous phase oxidative dehydrogenation. Malononitrile is useful as a material for producing various medicines, including Vitamine B1. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION It is known from U.S. Patent Nos. 2,459,128 and 2,389,217 that malononitrile is produced by preparing cyanoacetamide from monochloroacetic acid and sodium cyanide and, then, by converting cyanoacetamide to malononitrile by means of dehydration. In this process, sodium cyanide, which is virulently poisonous and, therefore, should be extremely carefully handled, is used. Also, the process is composed of a plurality of steps. Furthermore, in the step of dehydrating cyanoacetamide, it is necessary to use an expensive additional material. Therefore, the above mentioned process is unsatisfactory from the point of view of industrial utility. Also, it is known from U.S. Patent Nos. 2,553,406 and 2,606,917 and British Patent No. 1,228,540 that malononitrile is prepared by reacting acetonitrile with cyanogen chloride at an elevated temperature of from 800 to 1000 C. This process is disadvantageous in the following ways. That is, since the reaction for producing malononitrile is carried out at a high temperature of from 800 to 1000 C, the reaction should be effected in a specific heat resistant apparatus, which is expensive. Also, the high temperature reaction causes the reaction product to be contaminated with by products, for example, carbon and polymers. Furthermore, the reaction product contains maleonitrile and fumaronitrilea which have boiling points close to that of malononitrile. Therefore, it is difficult to separate and purify malono nitrile from maleonitrile and fumaronitrile by a usual separating and purifying method. Furthermore, Japanese Patent Application Publication Kokoku No. 47 28968 1972 discloses a process for producing malononitrile by the catalytic ammonoxidation of 8 aminopropionitrile in the presence of ammonia and a catalyst. However, this process is disadvantageous in the following ways. That is, the yield of malononitrile is unsatisfactorily poor. The ammonoxidation reaction can be elected only in the presence of a large amount of ammonia.Accordingly, in the process, not only a large amount of ammonia is consumed, but also, a large amount of a neutralizing agent is used for neutralizing the reaction mixture. This feature makes it necessary to apply a complicated treatment to the waste water from the process and the cost of the process becomes undesirably high.Furthermore, when the resultant malononitrile is separated and recovered from the reaction mixture containing a large amount of ammonia, it is unavoidable that a portion of the resultant malononitrile becomes lost, because an alkaline substance added into an aqueous solution of malononitrile causes malononitrile to be remarkably chemically unstable and to be polymerized in the alkaline aqueous solution.Moreover, the large amount of ammonia in the reaction mixture causes the catalytic activity of the catalyst to decrease with the lapse of the reaction time. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The present invention provides a method by which malononitrile may be produced in a single step reaction without using poisonous substances. The method of the present invention comprises subjecting Faminopropion itrile to an oxidative dehydrogenation in a gaseous phase with molecular oxygen. The resultant malononitrile can be collected from the reaction mixture by rapidly cooling the reaction mixture to a temperature of 80 0C or l ess to condense the malononitrile. By performing this method in the presence of a catalyst described below, malononitrile can be produced at a relatively low temperature with a satisfactory yield thereof. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS Fig. 1 is a graph showing a relationship between the cooling temperature applied to a reaction mixture and the yield of malononitrile, and Fig. 2 is a graph showing a relationship between the pH of a reaction mixture and the yield of malononitrile. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION In the method of the present invention, 8 aminopropio nitrile NH2CH2CH2CN is oxidative dehydrogenated in a gaseous phase with oxygen gas or an oxygen containing gas. The oxidation dehydrogenation reaction can be promoted by using a catalyst comprising at least one oxide of at least one element selected from molybdenum Mo , vanadium V , tungsten W , bismuth Bi , iron Fe , chromium Cr , nickel Ni , cobalt Co , manganese Mn , tin Sn , antimony Sb , zinc Zn , copper Cu , titanium Ti and other elements. It is preferable that the oxidative dehydrogenation reaction be carried out in the presence of a catalyst comprising an oxide composition of molybdenum andat least one element selected from titanium, vanadium, chromium, manganese, iron, cobalt, hickel, aluminium Al tin, antimony, tellurium Te , bismuth, thallium T1 , phosphorus P , boron B , alkali metals, alkaline earth metals and rare earth metals. It is more preferable that the catalyst for the oxidative dehydrogenation consists substantially of an oxide composition of the empirical formula I Mo13Bi0.1 24AaBbC D O I wherein A represents at least one member selected from the group consisting of iron and chromium B represents at least one member selected from the group consisting of nickel, cobalt, manganese and magnesium C represents at least one member selected from the group consisting of alkali metals, alkaline earth metals, rare earth metals, tellurium, thallium, tungsten and lead D represents at least one member selected from the group consisting of phosphorus, arsenic and boron a represents the number 0.1 to 24 b represents the number 0 to 24 c represents the number 0 to 2 d represents the number 0 to 5, and x represents the number of oxygen atoms which satisfies the valency of the catalytic elements in the oxide composition. The catalyst usable for the present invention can be used in the form of the catalyst alone or in the form of a composite in which the catalyst is carried on a carrier consisting of silica, alumina, diatomaceous earth and or pumice. In the method of the present invention, it is preferable that a feed containing ss aminopropionitrile and oxygen gas or an oxygen containing gas, for example, air, be brought into contact with the catalyst. The feed may contain steam and or an inert gas in addition to B aminopropionitrile and a molecular oxygen gas or a molecular oxygen containing gas. The contact of the feed with the catalyst can be carried out in a fixed bed or a fluidized bed. The oxidative dehydrogenation reaction in the method of the present invention is preferably carried out at a temperature of 3500C or more, more preferably, from 350 to 5500C, and still, more preferably, from 380 to 5000C. When the oxidative dehydrogenation reaction is carried out by using the catalyst, it is preferable that the contact time of the feed with the catalyst be in the range of from 0.01 to 20 seconds, more preferably, from 0.05 to 5 seconds. In the method of the present invention, it is preferable that the molar ratio of B aminopropionitrile to molecular oxygen be in a range of from 1 0.5 to 1 10, more preferably, from 1 1 to 1 5. The oxidative dehydrogenation reaction in the method of the present invention may be carried out under any pressure. However, it is preferable that the reaction be carried out under a pressure of 1 to several atmospheres. As stated above, malononitrile is chemically unstable.Therefore, it is important to collect the resultant malononitrile from the resultant reaction mixture without allowing malononitrile to be lost. For this purpose, it is preferable to rapidly cool the reaction mixture containing the resultant malononitrile to a temperature of 800C or less, more preferably, 600C or less, so as to allow the resultant malononitrile to condense. If the resultant malononitrile is collected from the reaction mixture at a temperature exceeding 80 C, the yield of malononitrile becomes significantly low. This feature is illustrated in Fig. 1. Usually, the condensation of the resultant malononitrile is contaminated with an unreacted amount of 6 aminopropio nitrile. Therefore, the contaminated condensation exhibits an alkaline pH. Under the alkaline condition, even if the temperature of the condensation is lower than 800C, it is unavoidable that a portion of the resultant malononitrile is polymerized and lost. Accordingly, in order to avoid the polymerization of malononitrile, it is desirable to adjust the pH of the condensation to a value of 7.0 or less, more preferably, 6.0 or less, still more preferably, 1.0 to 6.0, by adding an acid or acid substance to the reaction mixture or the condensation. If the resultant malononitrile is collected from the reaction mixture at a pH exceeding 7.0, the yield of malononitrile becomes remarkably poor. This feature is clearly illustrated in Fig. 2. The acid may consist of at least one member selected organic acids, for example, acetic acid and inorganic acids, for example, sulfuric acid. The cooling procedure for the reaction mixture may be carried out by using a coolant which does not contaminate the resultant malononitrile and which is capable of being easily separated from the resultant malononitrile. For example, it is preferable that the coolant consists qf water or a condensation of the reaction mixture. In the cooling procedure, it is important that the reaction mixture be cooled as rapidly as possible to a temperature of 800C or less, preferably, 600C or less, at a cooling rate of 200C sec or more. The reaction mixture may be directly cooled by the coolant by ejecting the coolant into the reaction mixture or by ejecting the reaction mixture into the coolant. In the direct cooling procedure, it is preferable tha the acid or acid substance be preliminarily added to the coolant, so that when the malononitrile is condensed, the pH of the condensation can be immediately adjusted to a desired value of 7.0 or less. When the reaction mixture is indirectly cooled by the coolant, it is done by bringing the coolant into contact with a container into which the reaction mixture is supplied. In this case, it is preferable that the acid or acid substance be supplied in the form of a gas or spray into the container. Also, a portion of the coolant may be blown into the container to promote the rapid cooling of the reaction mixture. Otherwise, the reaction mixture may be blown into a cooled neutral or acid solvent to selectively extract malononitrile from the reaction mixture. In the cooling procedure, in order to prevent the acid corrosion of the reaction apparatus and or the cooling apparatus, it is preferable that the acid or acid substance be used in an amount which does not cause the apparatus to become corroded. That is, it is preferable that the pH of the condensation containing the acid or acid substance is 7.0 or less, but not below 1.0. When the method of the present invention is applied to aminopropionitrile, the resultant reaction mixture contains, in addition to malononitrile, the non reacted ss aminopropionitrile, CO2 , CO and small amounts of acrylonitrile, acetonitrile and substances having a high boiling point. However, the reaction mixture contains no maleonitrile and fumaronitrile which are difficult tQ separate from malononitrile. SPECIFIC EXAMPLES OF THE INVENTION The specific examples set forth below will serve to more fully explain the practice of the process of the present invention. However, it should be understood that the examples are only illustrative and should in no way limit the scope of the present invention. In the examples, the percent of conversion of 8 aminopropionitrile and the percent of selectivity to malononitrile were calculated in accordance with the following equations. Conversion of B aminopropionitrile Molar amount of ss aminopropionitrile reacted x 100 Molar amount of ss aminopropionitrile supplied Selectivity to malononitrile Molar amount of malononitrile produced Molar amount of ss aminopropionitrile reacted x 100 Examples 1 through 4 In Example 1, a catalyst consisting essentially of molybdenum oxides was prepared in such a manner that one part by weight of ammonium heptamolybdate NH4 6Mo7O24.4H2O was dissolved in 2 parts by weight of water, the resultant solution was evaporated to dryness at a temperature of 1300C and the resultant solid material was calcinated at a temperature of 6000C for 2 hours. A glass reaction tube having an inside diameter of 8 mm was charged with 0.5 g of the above mentioned catalyst. A feed gas containing B aminopropionitrile, molecular oxygen, nitrogen and steam in the molar ratio of 1 1.2 10 1, was flowed through the reaction tube, so as to bring the feed gas into contact with the catalyst for 0.15 seconds at a temperature of 4400C under atmospheric pressure. A portion of the resultant reaction gaB mixture was subjected to a gas chromatographic analysis to determine the amounts of non reacted B aminopropionitrile and malononitrile. In the results of the analysis, it was found that the conversion of ss aminopropionitrile was 98 and the selectivity to malononitrile was 15.5 . No maleonitrile and no fumaronitrile were detected in the resultant reaction mixture. The same analysis as that mentioned above was applied to a portion of the reaction mixture obtained 10 hours after the start of the above mentioned reaction procedure. The results of the analysis were the same as those mentioned above. In each of the Examples 2, 3 and 4, the same procedures as those described in Example 1 were carried out, except that the reaction was carried out at temperatures indicated in Table 1. The results of the analysis are indicated inTable 1. Table 1 Exa Reaction O Nersian of Selectivity to No Temperature ss aminopropinile metilamine C 2 420 85 7.5 3 460 100 15.8 4 480 100 6.1 Comparative Example 1 The same procedures as those described in Example 1 were carried out, except that the feed gas contained ss aminopropionitrile, ammonia molecular oxygen, nitrogen and steam in a molar ratio of 1 5 1.2 10 1. The conversion of ss aminopropionitrile was 90 and the selectivity to malononitrile was 10.5 . That is, the addition of ammonia caused both the conversion of ss aminopropionitrile and the selectivity to malononitrile to decrease. After the above mentioned reaction procedure was continued for 10 hours, it was found that the conversion of ss aminopropionitrile decreased to 85 and the selectivity to malononitrile decreased to 7.5 . That is, it is evident that the addition of ammonia caused the catalytic activity of the catalyst used to decrease. Example 5 The same procedures as those described in Example 1 were carried out, except that the catalyst consisted of vanadium V oxide prepared by calcining ammonium metavanadate NH4VO3 at a temperature of 5500C for 4 hours and the reaction temperature was 4000C. It was found that the conversion of 6 aminopropionitrile was 100 and the selectivity to malononitrile was 1.5 . Example 6 The same procedures as those described in Example 1 were carried out with the following exception. The catalyst used was prepared in such a manner that one part by weight of ammonium paratungstate 5 NH4 2O12WO3.5H2O was dissolved in 30 parts by weight of a hot aqueous solution containing 10 by weight of oxalic acid 2.9 parts by weight of a silica sol containing 30 by weight of SiO2 were added to the above mentioned aqueous solution the mixture was evaporated to dryness at a temperature of 1300C and, then, the resultant dry solid material was calcined at a temperature of 6000C for 2 hours. A catalyst, consisting essentially of tungasten oxides and carried on a silica carrier, was obtained. The reaction temperature was 4500C. As results of the reaction, the conversion of S aminopropionitrile was 95 and the selectivity to malononitrile was 1.8 . Example 7 The same procedures as those described in Example 1 were carried out with the following exception. The catalyst used was prepared in such a manner that one party by weight of a tin power was dissolved in 20 by weight of an aqueous solution containing 20 by weight of nitric acid at a temperature of 1000C, and separately, 4.1 parts by weight of an antimony powder were dissolved in 6 parts by weight of an aqueous solution containing 60 by weight of nitric acid at a temperature of 1000C the tin solution was mixed with the antimony solution the mixture was evaporated to dryness and, then, the resultant dry solid material was calcined at a temperature of 7000C for 16 hours. The resultant catalyst consisted essentially of an oxide composition in which the molar ratio of tin to antimony was 2 1. The reaction temperature was 3800C. It was found that the conversion of S aminopropio nitrile was 90 and the selectivity to malononitrile was 0.8 . Example 8 The same procedures as those described in Example 1 were carried out, except that the catalyst used was prepared by mixing a solution of one part by weight of nickel nitrate Ni N03 in in 2 parts by weight of hot water 2 with a solution of 1.4 parts by weight of chromiun nitrate Cr NO3 2 9H2O in 3 parts by weight of hot water, by evaporating the mixture to dryness and by calcining the resultant dry solid material at a temperature of 5000C for 2 hours, and the reaction was carried out at a temperature of 4000C. It was calculated from the results of the analysis that the conversion of 6 aminopropionitrile was 97 and the selectivity to malononitrile was 2.6 . Example 9 The same procedures as those described in Example 1 were carried out, except that the catalyst used was prepared by mixing a solution of one part by weight of ferric nitrate Fe NO3 .9H2O in 1 part by weights of hot water with another solution of 1.5 parts by weight of an antimony powder in 9 parts by weight of an aqueous solution of 60 by weight of nitric acid having a temperature of 1000C by evaporating the mixture to dryness and by calcining the resultant dry solid material at a temperature of 7000C for 8 hours, with the reaction temperature being 3800C. The conversion of 8 aminopropionitrile was 91 and the selectivity to malononitrile was 2.4 . Example 10 Procedures identical to those described in Example 1 were carried out, except that the catalyst used was prepared in such a manner that one part by weight of ammonium metavanadate NH4VO3 was dissolved in a hot aqueous solution of 10 by weight of oxalic acid 18 parts by weight of an a alumina powder were dispersed in the oxalic acid solution the dispersion was evaporated to dryness and, then, the resultant dry solid material was calcined at a temperature of 6000C for 2 hours to obtain a vanadium oxide catalyst supported on alumina, with the reaction temperature being 4900C. As results of the analysis, the conversion of B aminopropionitrile was 98 and the selectivity to malononitrile was 5.5 . Example 11 The same procedures as those described in Example 1 were carried out, except that the catalyst was prepared in such a manner that one part by weight of nickel nitrate was dissolved in one part by weight of hot water the solution was mixed with 4.8 parts by weight of an a alumina powder the mixture was evaporated to dryness and, then, the dry solid material was calcined at a temperature of 6000C for 2 hours, with the reaction temperature being 4300C. The conversion of aminopropionitrile was 30 and the selectivity to malononitrile was 0.2 . Example 12 The same procedures as those described in Example 1 were carried out, except that one part by weight of manganese nitrate Mn NO3 2.6H2O was dissolved in one part by weight of hot water the solution was mixed with 4.6 parts by weight of an a alumina powder the mixture was evaporated to dryness, and, finally, the dry solid material was calcined at a temperature of 6000C for 2 hours, with the reaction temperature being 4500C. The conversion of B aminopropionitrile was 86 and the selectivity to malononitrile was 0.7 . Example 13 The same procedures as those described in Example 1 were carried out, except that the reaction temperature was 5000C and the catalyst used was prepared by dissolving one part by weight of magnesium nitrate Mg NO3 2.6H2O in 2.5 parts by weight of hot water by mixing the solution with 3 parts by weight of an a alumina powder by evaporating the mixture to dryness and finally, by calcining the dry solid material at a temperature of 6000C for 2 hours, to provide a magnesium oxide catalyst carried on a alumina. The conversion of 8 aminopropionitrile was 100 , and the selectivity to malononitrile was 0.1 . Example 14 The same procedures as those described in Example 1 were carried out, except that the reaction temperature was 4600C and the catalyst was prepared by dissolving one part by weight of a tin powder bn 20 parts by weight of an aqueous solution containing 20 by weight of nitric acid by mixing the resultant solution with 24 parts by weight of an a alumina powder by evaporating the mixture to dryness and, finally by calcining the dry solid material at a temperature of 6000C for 2 hours to provide a tin oxide catalyst carried on a alumina. The conversion of 8 aminopropionitrile was 60 and the selectivity to malononitrile was 0.2 . Example 15 The same procedures as those described in Example 1 were carried out, except that the reaction temperature was 4000C and the catalyst was prepared in such a manner that one part by weight of ferric nitrate was dissolved in 2 parts by weight of hot water the solution was mixed with 3.7 parts by weight of an a alumina powder the mixture was evaporated to dryness and, then, the resultant dry solid material was calcined at a temperature of 6000C for 2 hours to provide an iron oxide catalyst carried on a alumina. The conversion of 8 aminopropionitrile was 36 and the selectivity to malononitrile was 0.35 . Example 16 The same procedures as those described in Example 1 were carried out, except that the reaction temperature was changed to 4900C and the catalyst was prepared by such a method that one part by weight of bismuth nitrate Bi NO3 3 5H2O was dissolved in one part by weight of an aqueous solution containing 20 by weight of nitric acid the resultant solution was mixed with 6.4 parts by weight of an a alumina powder the mixture was evaporated to dryness and, finally, the resultant dry solid material was calcined at a temperature of 6000C for 2 hours to provide a bismuth oxide catalyst carried on a alumina. The conversion of 8 aminopropionitrile was 75 and the selectivity to malononitrile was 0.1 . Examples 17 through 40 In each of the Examples 17 through 40, a catalyst was prepared in a method as described hereinafter. A glass reaction tube having an inside diameter of 8 mm was filled with 0.5 g of the catalyst. A feed gas containing a aminopropionitrile, molecular oxygen, nitrogen and steam in a molar ratio of 1 1.2 10 1, was flowed through the reaction tube at a temperature as indicated in Table 2, so as to allow the feed gas to contact the catalyst for 0.15 seconds. A portion of the resultant reaction mixture was subjected to a gas chromatographic analysis. The results of the analysis are indicated in Table 2. Catalyst used in Example 17 The catalyst was prepared by calcining phosphorus molybdate at a temperature of 4000C for 2 hours to provide an oxide composition of the empirical formula Mol2PlOx. Catalyst used in Example 18 The catalyst was prepared by the following method. A solution A was prepared by dissolving one part by weight of ammonium heptamolybdate in 2 parts by weight of hot water at a temperature of 700C. Separately, a solution B was prepared in such a manner that 0.146 parts by weight of ammonium metavanadate were gradually miked into 1.46 parts by weight of an aqueous solution containing 20 by weight of oxalic acid at a temperature of 800C while the mixture was vigorously stirred, and, after the two items were thoroughly mixed, the stirring operation of the mixture was continued for about 20 minutes, until the resultant solution exhibited a dark navy blue color. Then, the solution A was mixed with the solution B. The mixed solution was further mixed with 3.45 parts by weight of an a alumina powder.The mixture was evaporated to dryness. The resultant dry solid material was calcined at a temperature of 4000C for 2 hours, to provide a catalyst of the empirical formula Mo12V1.330x carried on a alumina. Catalyst used in Example 19 The catalyst was prepared by dissolving one part by weight of ammonium heptamolybdate in 2 parts by weight of water at a temperature of 700C by mixing the resultant solution with 3.96 parts by weight of a silica sol containing 30 by weight of silica by additionally mixing the mixture with 0.373 parts by weight of a titanium dioxide powder by evaporating the resultant mixture to dryness and by calcining the resultant dry solid material at a temperature of 6000C for 2 hours, to provide a catalyst of the empirical formula Mo12Ti10Ox 10 carried on silica. Catalyst used in Example 20 The catalyst was prepared in such a manner that one part by weight of ammonium heptamolybdate was dissolved in 2 parts by weight of water at a temperature of 700C the resultant solution was mixed with 3.54 parts by weight of a 30 weight silica sol the mixture was further mixed with an aqueous solution of 1.31 parts by weight of chromium nitrate Cr NO3 3.9H2O in 2.5 parts by weight of water the resultant mixture was evaporated to dryness and, finally, the resultant dry solid was calcined at a temperature of 6000C for 2 hours to provide a catalyst of the empirical formula Mo12Cr10Ox. Catalysts used in Examples 21 through 40 Each of the catalysts used in Examples 21 through 40 was of the emprical formula as indicated in Table 2. The catalysts were prepared in the similar manner to that described in Example 19, by using boric acid, stannic oxide, diantimony trioxide, telluric acid, and or nitrates of Mh,Mg, Cu, Bi, Co, Ni, Fe, Na, K, Al, Ce and or T1. The calcining temperature of each catalyst is indicated in Table 2. The calcining time applied to each catalyst was 2 hours. Table 2Example Type of Carrier Calcining Reaction Conversion Selectivity No. catalyst temperature temperature of ss amino to malono propionitrile nitrile C C 17 Mo12F1 400 400 100 24 18 NO12V1.33 80 wt 400 480 100 26 alpha Al2O3 19 NO12Ti10 50 wt 600 400 100 22 SiO2 20 Mo12Cr10 600 460 100 19 21 Mo12Mo10 600 460 100 13 22 Mo12Mg10 600 480 99 16 23 Mo12Ca10 600 455 100 10.5 24 Mo12Bi12 600 445 100 13 25 Mo12Bi9P1 550 440 100 20 26 Mo12Bi9B2 540 440 83 26 27 Mo12Co6 600 475 100 15 28 Mo12Ni6 600 460 99 12 29 Mo12Fe8 600 435 100 13 30 Mo12Sn28 500 430 90 23 31 Mo12So1 50 wt 600 450 100 11 Si2 32 Mo12So12 600 475 99 9 33 No12Te6P1 400 460 100 13 34 Mo12Te4Ce3 440 400 100 12.5 35 Mo12Te1.3Fe8 450 430 98 15 36 Mo2Me0.5 550 450 98 12 37 Mo12K0.1 550 450 RTI ID 16.3 100 14 38 Mo12Al6 600 450 100 17 39 Mo12Bi2Ce4 600 485 85 14 40 Mo12Bi9Tl1 600 470 98 16 Examples 41 through 54 In each of the Examples 41 through 54, the same procedures as those described in Example 17 were carried out, except that the catalyst was prepared in the method as described hereinafter, and the reaction was carried out at a temperature as indicated in Table 3. The results are indicated in Table 3. Catalyst used in Example 41 This catalyst was prepared in such a manner that 167 g of a silica sol containing 30 by weight of silica SiO2 was mixed with 1.7 g of an aqueous solution containing 85 by weight of phosphoric acid the mixture was mixed with an aqueous solution which was prepared by dissolving 33 g of ammonium heptamolybdate in 65 g of water at a temperature of 600C the resultant mixture was further mixed with a solution prepared by dissolving 30 g of bismuth nitrate, 44 g of ferric nitrate and 0.12 g of potassium nitrate in 30 g of an aqueous solution containing 13 by weight of nitric acid at a temperature of 500C, while stirring the mixture the resultant slurry was evaporated to dryness and, finally, the resultant dry solid was calcined at a temperature of 6900C for 2 hours.The resultant catalyst is of the empirical formula Mo,,Bi Fe u P 0 and carried in an amount of 50 by weight on a silica carrier. Catalyst used in Example 42 This catalyst was prepared in the following manner.167 g of a silica sol containing 30 by weight of silica were mixed with 1.5 g of an aqueous solution containing 85 by weight of phosphoric acid this mixture was mixed with an aqueous solution prepared by dissolving 27.0 g of ammonium heptamolybdate in 54 g of water at a temperature of 600C and, then, this was mixed with a solution prepared by dissolving 43.0 g of bismuth nitrate, 23.2 g of ferric nitrate, 7.5 g of cobalt nitrate and 1.1 g of sodium nitrate in 50 g of an aqueous solution containing 13 by weight of nitric acid at a temperature of 500C, while stirring the mixture. The resultant slurry was evaporated to dryness and the resultant dry solid was calcined at a temperature of 6900C for 2 hours.The resultant catalyst was of the empirical formula Mo12Bi7Fe4.5Co2Na1P1Ox , and carried in an amount of 50 on the silica carrier. Catalysts used in Examples 43 through 54 The catalysts used in the Examples 43 through 54 were of the empirical formula as indicated in Table 3 and were prepared in the similar manner to that described inExamples 41 and 42, except that the calcining procedure was carried out at temperatures as indicated in Table 3 for 2 hours. In the. preparation of the catalysts, the source ofBoron was boric acid the source of tellurium was telluric acid the source of tungsten was ammonium paratangstate and the sources of the other elements were nitrates of those elements. T a b l e 3Example Type of catalyst Carrier Calcining Reaction Conversion SelectivityNo. temperature temperature of ss amino of malono propionitrile nitrile C C 41 Mo12Bi4.3Fe7.2K0.075P1 50 wt 690 450 99 42 SiO2 42 Mo12Bi7Fe4.5CO2Na1P1 460 100 29 43 Mo12Bi1Fe1Ni1Rb0.1 650 420 99 27 44 Mo12Bi1Fe1Cr1 100 18 45 Mo12Bi2Fe1Ce1K0.1 100 25 46 Mo12Bi1Fe1B 100 20 47 Mo12bi1Fe1Ni1Mg1K0.1 630 430 100 23 48 Mo12Bi1Fe1Ni1Mn1Co1K0.1 100 19 49 Mo12Bi1Fe1Ni1Pb1 99 28 50 Mo12Bi1Fe1Ni7Te0.2 450 100 30 51 Mo12Bi1Fe1.5Cr1Ni7K0.3 600 99 35 52 Mo12Bi1Fe1Ni7Ba1P0.3 100 25 53 Mo12Bi1Fe1Ni7W1P0.3 100 26 54 Mo12Bi1Fe1Ni7Tl0.3P0.3 100 29 Example 55 A reaction tube having an inside diameter of 19 mm and a length of 50 cm was filled with 25 g of the same catalyst as that described in Example 1.A feed gas containing B aminopropionitrile, molecular oxygen, nitrogen and steam in the molar ratio of 1 1.2 10 5, was flowed through the reaction tube at a temperature of 4400C under atmospheric pressure, so as to allow the feed gas to contact the catalyst for 0.2 seconds. The entire amount of the resultant reaction mixture discharged from the reaction tube was introduced into a rapid cooling vessel having a capacity of two liters and containing one.liter of water, so that the resultant malononitrile was absorbed by the water. The temperature of the water in the vessel was maintained at 300C. Also, the pH of the water was maintained at a value of 5.0 by adding an aqueous sulfuric acid solution. After the absorbing operation was continued for one hour, the absorbing liquid was subjected to a gas chromatographic analysis to determine the amount of malononitrile produced. As a result of the analysis, the yield of malononitrile was 14.5 . This value of the yield of 14.5 was the same as that determined by using a portion of the resultant reaction mixture collected at the outlet of the reaction tube. That is, no loss of the resultant malononitrile occurred in the water absorbing procedure. The same procedures as those described above were repeated, except that the pH of water in the vessel was not controlled by adding sulfuric acid. After the absorbing operation was continued for one hour, the pH of the water was 9.8 and the yield of malononitrile was 3.0 . Also, it was found that a solid material, which appeared to be an undesirable polymerization product of malononitrile, was deposited in the cooling vessel. The same procedures as those described in Example 55 were repeated several times by changing the temperature of the water in the cooling vessel from 20 to 900C, while maintaining the pH of the water in the vessel at a level of 5.0. The relationship between the cooling temperature and the yield of malononitrile is indicated in Fig. 1. In the case where the temperature of the water in the vessel is 600C or more, a trap was arranged at the outlet of the cooling vessel and cooled with a dry ice methanol coolant, so as to allow the vapor generated in the vessel to condense in the trap. The condensation was incorporated into the water in the vessel and a portion of the incorporated water was subjected to the gas chromatographic analysis. Separately, the same procedures as those described inExample 55, were repeated several times by adjusting the pH of the water in the vessel to a value of from 1.0 to 10, while maintaining the temperature of the water at 300C. The adjustment of the pH was carried out by using an aqueous sulfuric acid solution. The relationship between the pH of the water in the vessel and the yield of malononitrile is indicated in Fig. 2. From Figs. 1 and 2, it is clear that, in order to obtain malononitrile in a high yield, it is preferable that the reaction mixture be rapidly cooled to a temperature of 800C or less, more preferably, 600C or less, and that the pH of the malononitrile be maintained at a value of 0.7 or less, more preferably, 1.0 to 6.0. Comparative Example 2 The same procedures as those described in Example 55 were carried out, except that the feed gas contained 8 aminopropionitrile, ammonia, molecular oxygen, nitrogen and steam in the molar ratio of 1 5 1.2 10 1. The yield of malononitrile absorbed by the water in the cooling vessel was 5.4 . However, the yield of malononitrile, determined by using a portion of the resultant reaction mixture collected at the outlet of the reaction tube, was 9.8 , which is remarkably larger than the above mentioned yield of 5.4 . From this phenomenon, it is clear that the ammonia contained in the feed gas causes the resultant malononitrile to be modified in the absorbing water.