# Fastener assembly.

## Abstract
A fastener assembly 10 including a rivet 12 con structed of a relatively deformable material and adapted to be located in a wall aperture 24 to which it is to be secured. The rivet 12 has internal threads 32 which may be utilized to buckle the rivet 12 in a central area thereof against the internal side of the aperture. This buckle co acts with a flanged portion of the rivet 12 at the external side of the aperture 24 thus holding the rivet 12 securely in the wall aperture 24 . The fastener assembly 10 also includes a cylinder 42 formed of a relatively nondeformable material which is inserted into the rivet 12 in an inierference fit relationship to force the exterior faces of the rivet 12 radially outwardly to create a fluid type seal between the rivet 12 and wall aperture 24 .

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A fastener assembly including a tubular rivet constructed of a relatively deformable material, said rivet having an internal end and an external open end, said rivet having an exterior surface of a diameter slightly smaller than a wall aperture to which the fastener assembly is to be secured, said rivet having an interior surface threaded to permit bucking of the rivet from its external open end, and a cylindrical sleeve formed of a relatively nondeformable material insertable into the rivet from the external open end, the exterior diameter of the sleeve being slightly greater than the interior diameter of the rivet so that upon insertion of the sleeve into the rivet the exterior surface of the rivet will be forced outwardly against the wall aperture to create a coupling seal between the rivet and wall aperture. 2. The fastener assembly as set forth in Claim 1 and further including a screw mountable within said rivet and said sleeve. 3. The fastener assembly as set forth in Claim 2 wherein the internal end is closed to create a fluidtight seal between the rivet and wall aperture. 4. A fastener assembly for coupling an aircraft wing cover to its substructure through a well aperture therethrough including a tubular rivet constructed of a relatively deformable material and of a length greater than the depth of the wall aperture, said rivet having an internal closed end and an external open end, said rivet having an exterior surface in the region where it is adapted to contact the wall aperture, said exterior surface being of a diameter slightly smaller than a wall aperture to which the fastener assembly is to be secured, said rivet having a threaded interior surface adjacent the closed end to permit bucking of the rivet from its open end, and a cylindrical sleeve formed of a relatively nondeformable material insertable into the rivet from the open end to a depth substantially equal to the length of the wall aperture, the exterior diameter of the sleeve being slightly greater than the interior diameter of the rivet so that upon insertion of the sleeve into the rivet the exterior surface of the rivet will be forced outwardly against the wall aperture to create a fluid seal between the rivet and wall aperture.

## Description
FASTENER ASSEMBLY BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The problem.of fastening sheets of thin metal material together, especially where only one side of the sheet is available for operation, presents many difficulties. The thinness of the metal sheet precludes the use of threaded screws except for exceptionally high loads while the threading of holes requires a considerable expenditure of time. On the other hand, ordinary rivets cannot be applied in the absence of means for bucking the rivets or equivalent fasteners from the opposite or blind side of the sheets. With thin metals, welding becomes impractical and with certain other metals soldering is practically impossible. One solution to the problem is set forth inU.S. Patent No. 2,149,111 issued February 28, 1939 toHarry E. Waner and entitled TUBULAR RIVET. According to that invention, a rivet is utilized which is internally threaded. Use of an associated tool, as described in the patent, permits bucking of the rivet through the aperture from the non blind side. Such a technique has been successfully utilized in the aviation industry particularly on aircraft wings where the outer wing cover must be coupled to the sub structure. However, in modern aviation technology, the space within the wing is generally utilized as a container for the fluid aircraft fuel. Such.prior art devices do not dependably create a fluid tight seal when used in such an application. Theoretically, the internal surface of the sheet material being coupled should form a fluid tight seal with the bucked portion of the rivet. However, in practical application, the edges of the sheet material become chipped, scratched, or otherwise marred to thereby preclude an effective and dependable fluid sealing in this area. One improvement over the tubular rivet as described in the aforementioned Waner patent has been in the use of a washer between a flanged exterior end of the tubular rivet and the metallic sheet material being fastened or coupled. Such an approach of utilizing a washer has been generally successfully utilized for securing sheets together and providing a fluid tight seal. But with further advancements in the state of aviation technology, titanium and composites thereof, rather than aluminum, are becoming increasingly utilized in the construction of aircraft wings and other parts of the aircraft. It has been found that any inadvertent twisting or movement of the rivet within the carbon composite plates being coupled can fracture or otherwise deform the washer and destroy the fluid tight nature of the seal created by the washer prior to its movement and deformation. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The present invention is directed to an improved fastener assembly including a tubular rivet similar to that known in the prior art but with the improved fastener assembly also including a cylinder of relatively nondeformable material. The cylindrical member may be force fitted into the tubular rivet after bucking of the tubular rivet to the sheet materials being coupled. The nondeformable cylinder will force the entire contacted surface area of the tubular rivet radially outwardly against tie sheet material to thereby make a complete interference fit in contact with the face of the aperture in the sheets of material being coupled. Leakage from across the coupled members can thus be precluded. In this fashion, chipping, marring, or other abrasion of the inner surface of the sheet material being coupled will not destroy the fluid tight capabilities.Further, since there is no washer required adjacent the external surface of the sheet material, leakage from the breakage or other deformation of the washer caused by its movement is also precluded. In order to gain a better understanding of the invention as well as other advantages and further features thereof, reference is made to the following detailed description of the invention to be read in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims which form a part of this application. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF IHE DRAWINGS Figure 1 is an enlarged sectional illustration of the fastener assembly including the tubular rivet, the internal cylinder and a screw constructed in accordance with the instant invention shown as holding together two sheets of apertured material and with parts broken away to show internal constructions thereof and Figures 2 5 are sectional views of the fastener assembly of Figure 1 in various states of utilization and also showing an installing tool bucking the rivet and inserting the cylinder. DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT As shown in the figures, the fastener assembly 10 includes a tubular shaped rivet 12 illustrated in the preferred embodiment as a tubular member having a shoulder 14 at the exterior end 16 and being closed by a face 18 at the interior end 20. The rivet may be stepped at a central portion 22 for weight reduction thus leaving relatively thinner walls adjacent the area to be deformed through bucking. The interior end is preferably closed whereby the rivet may be utilized for holding together sheet material in a fluid tight orientation.The external edge is flanged with a shoulder 14 to define the limits into which the rivet may be inserted into a wall aperture 24 such as sheets of metal 26 and 28 or other material with particular utility in securing an aircraft wing cover to its substructure. Such shoulder is shaped to mate with a counterbored portion 30 adjacent the external surface of the exterior sheet 26 of the material to which the rivet is fastened. Threads 32 are provided in the internal cylindrical surface adjacent the internal end of the rivet to assist in bucking the rivnut from the external side of operation as shown in Figure 3. The rivet can be constructed of any of the conventional materials which have been utilized in the commercially available threaded rivets of the past such as those described in the aforementioned U.S. patent to Waner. Such materials include stainless steel, steel, brass or aluminum. Figure 2 of the drawings shows the rivet in a sectional view located in a wall aperture 24 of sheet material 26 and 28 which are being coupled. Shown inFigure 3 is the bucking operation whereby a first tool 34 is threaded into the internal threads of the rivet and pulled upwardly as shown in Figure 3 toward the external end of the rivet whereby a bulb portion 36 is created internal of the sheets, to cooperate with the interior edge 38 of the wall aperture 24 to create the coupling. Unscrewing of the tool 34 from the rivet creates the bucked rivet capable of holding the parts together in normal operation. A second tool 40 is shown in Figure 4 and is adapted to be threaded into the secured rivet for applying pressure and force fitting a cylindrical sleeve 42 into the rivet. The sleeve is preferably constructed of a nondeformable material such as a hardenable steel or alloy thereof such as a precipitation hardenable stainless steel, a material less deformable than that of the rivet. Upon being forced into the secured rivet, the rivet walls will be forced outwardly where contacted by the rivet so that all surface area of the rivet in contact with the sheet material will be tightly secured and form fitted with the wall aperture to create a fluid tight seal between the sheet material and rivet.The rivet is of particular utility where the coupled material is a composite material which normally would be degraded at the hole edge by the bucking of the rivet if thicker rivet walls were employed.The present invention thus minimizes degradation of the composite material around the inner edge of the hole edge during bucking of the rivet. Removal of the tool 42 makes the fastener assembly ready for operation with the sheet material coupled and a fluidtight seal created. The illustrated embodiment is described as utilizing two separate tools for first bucking the rivet then inserting the sleeve. It should be realized that a single tool could be utilized where ai single stroke effects both results. It is preferred to then provide a hole filler such as a screw 44 into the opening of then rivet with its threads 46 mating with the threads 32 of the rivet thus filling up the space and creating a substantially smooth surface of the materials being joined. Such surface is smooth except for the existence of the slit in the head of the screw for applying it into the rivet. As can be understood, the exterior diameter of the sleeve 42 must be of a dimension slightly larger than the inner diameter of the rivet 12 at the area of common length. The sleeve must preferably extend into the rivet to a distance equal to the thickness of the surface of the metal sheets being joined. The external surface of the sleeve is preferably tapered at 48 for receiving the tapered inner face 50 of the screw 44. The external surface of the rivet 12, at least exterior of the central portion 22, should have a diameter slightly less than the diameter of the hole in the sheet material to which it is to couple. By way of example, the wall aperture is 0.281 0.0005 inch in diameter with the exterior surface of the upper portion of the rivet being 0.2795 0.0005 inch. A sleeve with an external surface diameter of 0.2440 0.0005 inch would create the proper functioning of the elements of the assembly of the instant invention if the inner diameter of the upper portion of the rivet were 0.2375 0.0015 inch. The interference fit will make the rivet resistant to turning, a high torque interface between the fastener and fastened parts. As can be understood from the above description, the force fit of the sleeve into the rivet will expand the external surfaces of the rivet into a fluid tight seal. The fastener assembly can thus find particular utility in the aircraft industry, specifically in the mounting of the outer wing cover to the substrate of a wing filled with fluid fuels. The fastener assembly can obviously be used over a wide variety of coupling operations beyond that described above. While the instant invention as described above with regard to a preferred embodiment, it is intended to be covered broadly within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.