# B Nicotinoyloxyethyl nicotinic S acid ester and its preparation via 2 Mercaptoethyl nicotinate.

## Abstract
The present invention is referred to a proceeding of preparation to obtain original derivatives from the nicotinic acid and in particular thioethers, thioesters from the formula This new compound may be considered a derivative of 2,2 decamethylen dithio dietanol, known in therapy as hypolipidemic in which the alcoholic groups are hesterified with two moles of Nicotinic acid. The product obtained BIS THIO HETHYL NICOTINATE 1,10 DE CANE is an original substance of synthesis pro vided with a very clear normalizing action in the altered lipidic methabolism of atherosclerotic subject.

## Claims
I CLAIM 1 2 Decamethylendithio 2 diethyl pyriden 3 carboxilate or 2 Decamethylendithio 2 diethyldinicotinate of the Struc tural formula EMI15.1 wherein the aliphatic radical CH 10 may also be a dif 2 ferent number of the atoms of carbon CH 2n 2 The compound R CH2 CH2 S CH2 CH2 R, wherein R may be an acylic radical of an aromatic acid, arylalkyl, etherociclic or aliphatic, with a hypolipidemizing activity. 3 The compound V of claim 1 obteined according to Method A from the clorure of the acid with bis hydroxyethyl thio 1.10 decane in presence of an accepter of hydrochloric a cid, such as Pyridine, Triethy amine, N.N Dimethylniline, etc. and à solvent, as chloroform, methylene chloride, benzene, to luene. 4 The product V of claim 1 obteined according to Method B by reaction of anhidride of nicotinic acid with 1.10 bis hy droxyethyl thio decane in presence of Pyridine or by reaction of nicotinic acid with l.l0 bis hydroxiethyl thio decane in presence of Strong Cationic Resin, for exaple Duolite C 20 at suitable temperature. 5 The product V of claim 1 obteined according to Method C by reaction of nicotinylchloride or its anhidride with 2 Mercaptoethylnicotinate III and further reaction with 1.10 Dibromodecane IV in presence of hydrosoluble Sol vent. 6 The product III, which is an intermediate for the produ ction of product V according to Method C. 7 The product III B, thioesther, prepared according to claim 6, with a periferic vessel dilatation activity. 8 The product V of claim 1 obteined according to Method D by reaction of 2 Mercaptoethyl nicotinate III with 1.9 Decadiene VI in presence of 360 Watt mercury discharge lamp for about two hours. 9 A pharmaceutical preparation including the compound of claim 1 and 2 or a mixture containing two or more com pounds for oral administrations, hypodermic injection and retard form in human subjects.

## Description
NEW HYPOLIPIDEMIC SUBSTANCE BIS THIO HETHYL NICOTINATE 1,10 DECANETAURO CELESTA SONNINO Italy Pisa 6 Spinello AretinoThis invention refers to a process of preparation in order to obtain original derivatives from the nicotinic acid and in par ticular thioethers, thioesters with the formula EMI1.1 where R may signify a an acylicsgroup of the kind EMI1.2 b an acylalchil of the kind EMI1.3 c an acylalchilthio of the general formula connected with a methylenic group, with a varied number of C atoms EMI1.4 When as in case c a methylenic group is represented by n 10, we obtein a new compound 2 decamethylendithio 2 diethyl di nicotinate, answering to the follcwing structural formula with properties and characteristics well defined EMI1.5 This new compound may be considered a derivative of 2.2 de camethylen dithio dietanol, known in therapy as a hypolipide mic in which the alcoholic groups are hesterified with two mo les of nicotinic acid. It can be obteined from the two compounds , reacted in presence of cathalitic agents and solvents. DESCRIPTIVE MEMORYThe product obtained BIS THIO HETHYL NICOTINATE 1.10 DECANE is an original substance of synthesis pridedwth avery clear normalizing action in the altered lipidic methabolism of arte riosclerotic subjects.This compound has a therapeutical action, such to reduce the haematic rate of total lipids, of triglicerids and of cholesterol in cases of hyperlipidemy.The hesterification of nicotinic acid with Bis hydroxy 2 e thylthyo l,l0 decane increases and extends the terapeutical action, given by the single compounds, thanks to the slow release of nicotinic acid, which presents some collateral effects prurigo, hot flushes, when absorbed rapidly.Recently nicotinic acid has been discovered to present also profibrinolitic and hypolipidemic action.Profibrinolitic action seems to be connected with the capability of nicotinic acid of facilitating the release of an acti vator of plasminogen of vases endotheluine and or slackening the hepatic clearance of the plasminogen.Hypolipidemic activity follows the inhibition of cholesterol synthesis in liver and of mobilization of NEFA from adipose tissue for antilipolite action, the plasmatic levels of NEFA decrease and the synthesis of triglicerids reduces.The reduction of NEFA might influence the aggregation of piastrine in fact it is well known the iperaggregating action of free fat acids, as well as pathogenic implications of augmen ted aggregation of piastrine in artheriosclerosis.The present product frees nicotinic acid and Bis hydroxy 2 ethyltio l,lO decane very slowly, increasing and extending the therapeutical activity.Pharmacological and clinical studies have shown the hypolipidemic activity of this new substance, its easy absorption, its affinity to plasmatic patients, its quick metabolization at patic level, through a procedure of oxidation and glucurono sulfoconiugation, by means of sulfonilic groups.The expulsion is above all through the renal emuntory and feces within 48 hrs. from assumption, avoiding any accumulation of the drug in the various organs.The therapeutical activity of the new substance reveals inhibition of LDL and VLDL both atherogen lypoproteins and leaves HDL antiatherogen lypoproteins unhaltered, and so it modifies positively the atherogenetic index IA VLDL LDL IA, with the advantage of reducing the chief HDL risk factor of arteriosclerotic pathology.Administrating the new mulecule, with equal doses of the single compounds above mentioned, we obtain a better respondence of the therapeutic margins, in respect to DL50, when administrated orally.Pharmacological proofs on mice showed a very good pharmacodinamic activity on lowering triglicerids, lipids and choleste rol, superior to 2.2 decamethyl dithio diethanol and to nicotinic acid and other compounds on sale.It was impossible to determine DL o in acute toxicity because any sympton of intolerability is not noticeable even at high doses.The new compound can be administered orally in its different forms tablets, capsules, etc. and by hypodermic injection, when necessary.The product is obtained Method A by reaction of nicotineilchloride hydrochloride with 1.10 bis hydroxyethyl thio deca ne in presence of an acceptor of hydrochloric acid, such as pyridine, triethilamine, N.N Dimethylaniline, etc. It can be also obtained according to method B by reaction of anhidride of nicotinic acid with l.lo bis hy droxyethyl thio decane U.S.P. 3,021,215 in presence of Pyridine. According to Method C the product was obtained by reaction of nicotinic acid chlorure with 2 Mercaptoethanol II and the product 2 Mercaptoethylnidotinate furtherly reacted with 1.10Dibromodecane in presence of sodium methyle or sodium hydroxide . We obtained the same product as in Method A and B, that is 2 Decamethylendithio 2 iethyl dinicotinate. 2 Mercaptoethylnicotinate III can react with 1,9 Decadiene Method D in presence of 360 Watt mercury lamp, 20 cm distant, for about 2 hrs.The following scheme shows the above mentioned Methods. SYNTHESIS SCHEMEEMI5.1 EMI6.1 METHOD A PREPARATION OF 2,2 DECAMETHYLENDITHIO DIETHYL DINICOTINATE V C26 H36 N2 O4 S2 P.M. 504.70 Put gr.147 0.5 mole of bis hydroxyethyl thio 1.10 decane and 350 ml of chloroform anhydre in a three necks flask with mechanical mixer, refluxing with CaCl2 pipe, dropping funnel and thermo mether placed in thermoregulable bath.Add to the solution 1.15 mole gr.205 of nicotinoilchlorure hydrochloride freshly prepared.The mixture is stirred while adding gr.205 2.6 mole of. anhydre piridine, through the drip funnel. The addition of piridi ne is adjusted in order to keep exothermic reaction temperatu re at about 650C, to mantein a light reflux. Reflux is kept on by heating for 3 hrs. and then reaction mixture pH 3.8 4,2 is cooled to crystallize and put into refrigerator at 50C for 20 hrs. with desultory stirring. The white crystalline product is collected on funnel, well squeezed, washed with a little cold chloroform and all the filtered is put aside with the washings.The product on funnel is washed with water and sodium bicarbo nate solution and then distilled water, up to complete elimination of chlorides.The product, dried at 500C in vacuum, presents white and crystalline, weighs about 158 gr with m.p. 70 710 in Kofler.The chloroformic solution is washed with water to eliminate pyridine hydrochloride, with solution sodium bicarbonate and moreover with distilled water.The chloroformic solution is distilled to remove the solvent and the residual is dissolved with water, collected on funnel, washed with distilled water and the product dried at 500C in vacuum, gives gr.51 of product with m.p. 70 710C. Total gr.209. Yield 83 of theoricum.PurificationThe product purified with ethyl alcohol ml 9 gr. of product gives bright white lamellae with rn.p. 710C. Yield 80 .Centesimal analysisFor C26H36N2C4S2 Found. C 62.19 H 7.09 N 5.52 S 12.75 Calculated. C 61,88 H 7,19 N 5,55 S 12.70METHOD B 1 Nicotinic anhydride M.W.228 0,3 mole gr. 68.4 2 Pyridine anhydrous 0.5 mole ................ ml. 40, 3 Bis hydroxiethyl thio 1.10 decane 0 1 mole ....gr. 29,4Put the compounds 1 2 and 3 in a three necks flask withCaCl2 drier pipe. The mixture is stirred and heated on water bath for 4 hrs. The product is poured and stirred in 350 ml of water and alkalinized with watery solution saturated with sodium carbonate.The oily layer is extracted with three portions of ml.140 chlo roform or methylene chloride.The extracts are washed several times with water, dehydrated with sodium sulphate anhydrous, filtered and the solvent removed by distillation with traces of residual pyridine. The residual oil still hot crystallizes by cooling with an almost theoretic yield. We obtein a white product, melting at 68 690C. Recrystallized with ethyl alcohol, m.p.70 71 CThe product obteined is exactly alike to oneofMethod A the sa me product is obteined by reaction of nicotinic acid with bis hydroxy ethylthio l rlO decane in presence of Duolite ResineC 20, or correspondent to other type of strong cationic resine at appropriate temperature .METHOD C 2 CHLOROETHYL NI COTINATE II EMI9.1 C H ClNO2 P.M. 185.62 b.p. 88 90 0.4 0.5 l Nicotinoylchloride hydrochlorid 0.5 mole gr. 89. 2 Chloroethanol 0.5 mole , gr.40.25 3 Chloroform anhydrous ..............................ml ml 150 4 Pyridine anhydrous 0.5 mole gr.39.5Put the compounds 1 2 and 3 in Q three necks flask with mechanical mixer, refluxing refrigerator with CaC12 pipe, the stirring mixture heated on water bath begins to react developing HCl.The reaction finishes with slow addition of 4 and continuing the reflux on water bath for 3 hrs. more.After cooling the mixture is beated with water, the organic pha se separated, washed with solution of Sodium bicarbonate until it results neutral, then it is washed with water again and dehydrated on sodium sulphate anhydrous.The solvent is removed from the filtered and gives a residual of gr.84.The product subjeted to fractionation at reduced pressure boils at b.p. 88 90 C or at mm at 930C. 0.4 0.5 The product presents like colourless oil yield gr. 65.7 70 of calculated .The distilled colourless product crystallizes by cooling in bright crystals and melts at 280C.2 Chloroethyl nicotinate II is very irritant, in contact with skin.Analysis For C8H8ClNO2 Found. C 51.77 H 4.35 C1 19.10 N 7.54 Calculated. C 51.50 H4.70 Cl 19.42 N 7.81 2 MERCAPTOETHYL NICOTINATE III EMI10.1 1 2 Chloroethyl nicotinate 0.1 mole ...............gr. gr. 18.6 2 Absolute methanole ................................ml. ml. 200 3 Sodium hydrosulphite sodium bisulphite O.5 mole gr. 6.12The mixture of compounds 1 2 and 3 is stirred and heated on water bath up to complete reaction.After a night of rest, the solvent is removed at reduced pressure on water bath and the residue is dissolved with chloroform, the chloroformic solution is washed several times with water, dehydrated an Na2S04 the solvent is ditilled and the residual fractionated at reduced pressure, boils at b.p. 8 113 116 liquid colourless oily or ligthly straw coloured.Analysis For C8HgN02S Found C 52.44 H 4.95 N 7.65 S 17.50 Calculated C 52.51 H 5.02 N 7.62 17.53 The produit in contact with skin causes redness and vasodilata tion. 2 Mercaptoethylnicotinate can be obteined also from nico tinic acid with 2 Mercapto ethanole in presence for Duolite C 20 resin or other correspondent resin. The same product is obteined by reaction of nicotinoylchloride hydrochloride with 2 Mercapto ethanole according to the following scheme EMI11.1 1 Nicotinoylchlorure hydrochloride 0.5 mole ..........gr gr 89 2 2 Mercaptoethanole 0.5 mole ..............ml ml 35 gr 39 3 Chloroform anhydrous ............................... ml 150Put the compounds 1 and 2 in a three necks flask provided with refluxing refrigerator with CaCl2 pipe, mechanic mixer, dropping funnel placed in thermoregulable bath.The stirring mixture negins to react1 developing heat and gas HCl as 3 is added, until it reaches the reflux temperature of the solvent.When the addition finishes the reflux is continued on water bath for 3 hrs. After cooling, the mixture is washed with 300 ml of water and neutralized adding sodium bicarbonate.The chloroform mic phase is separated, washed several times with wather, dehy drated on Na2504, filtered and the solvent is evaporated,obteining a residual amounting to gr.79 86.8 . After distillation at reduced pressure we obtein gr.65 70 of calculated at b,p.1 5 132 135 or ate 8 ll 1160C. From distillation we have a residual of gr.6.2 6.7 wich cry stallizes by cooling and purifying it with isopropanole we obtein white soft crystals melting at 82 83 C,identified with Ni cotinylthio ethylnicotinate of the following structure EMI12.1 and with periferical vasodilatating property.Analysis C14H12N203S Found C 58.32 H 4.19 N 9.71 S 11.12 Calculated C 58.38 H 4.20 N 9.51 S 11.17 When in the reaction 2 moles of nicotinylchlorure and 1 mole of 2 Mercaptoethanole are used in presence of pyridine, the reactions goes on in favour of nicotinilthio ethylnicotinate III B with high yields. BIS THIOETHYLNICOTINATE 1.10 DECANE V METHOD C Absolute methanole ...............................ml ml 500 Metallic Sodium 0.5 gr.at. ......................gr gr 11.5 2 2 Mercaptoethylnicotinate III 0.5 mole , gr 92 3 1.10 Dibromodecane 0.25 mole ...................gr gr 75Sodium is dissolved in absolute methanole and 2 is added to cold solution of sodium methylate. 3 is then added little by little to mixture of reaction at room temperature, while stirring and stirred for some hrs. and then let to rest all the night long.Methanole is removed at reduced pressure on water bath.The residual is mixed with 1 lt. of water and the organic phase is extracted with chloroform many times.Chloroformic extracts together are washed with water and dehydrated on sodium sulphate anhydre, the solvent is distilled and the residual christallized with methanole gives compound V with 35 40 yield of calculated and thr product is the same as obteined from method A and B in white, soft, bright chri stals, m.p. 69.5 700C, in Softer. METHOD D 1 2 Mercaptoethyl nicotinate III 0.2 mole gr 36.8 2 1.9 Decadiene VI 0.1 mole gr13.9Compounds 1 and 2 together, while stirring, are radiated for about 2 hrs. at 20 cm. of distance, by a 360 Watt mercury lamp.The reaction mixture is dissolved in chloroform and washed several times with water, dehydrated on sodium sulphate anhidrous and filtered. The solvent is evaporated in vacuum on water bath and the residual still hot is seeded with some crystals the product and cooled in refrigerator all the night.The product obteined, chrystallized with ethanole is the same product obteined from methods A, B and C, with yield 35 of theoricum.