# Beverage dispensing system.

## Abstract
The invention relates to a liquid including pasty fluent material dispensing system, especially for beverage dis pensing systems in which the liquid to be dispensed beverage concentrate is contained in a disposable package. The package preferably comprises an inner flexible bag and an outer casing of cut and creased material such as cardboard. The casing is broken open so that a dispensing tube integral with the flexible bag can be pulled out and operatively positioned in the dispensing system. The said tube has shoulders adapting it for specific connection to a peristaltic pump in a simple and readily removable manner. The end of the dispensing tube is sealed, but is cut to enable the dispensing to take place. The tube is held closed at the point of contact with the peristaltic pump rollers and will only flow when the pump is actuated by a demand for the dispensing of the concentrate along with water to provide a beverage, which preferably is a carbonated beverage.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A disposable package for use in a dispensing system, wherein the package contains a liquid which is dispensed through a dispensing tube of the package, said dispensing tube having at least a section of flexible material which is for engagement by the rotor of a peristaltic pump for the dispensing of the liquid, said dispensing tube having shoulder or flange means for location in relation to a mounting means associated with a peristaltic pump, so that the said section of the flexible tube will be mounted in predetermined location in relation to the peristaltic pump rotor1 when in use. 2. A package according to claim 1, wherein the flexible bag containing the liquid contained in an outer casing is of cut and creased sheet material such as cardboard. 3. A package according to claim 2, wherein the bag is of synthetic plastics Inaterial, and is completely filled with the liquid so that there are no air pockets therein. 4. A package according to claim 2 or 3, wherein the said outer casing is provided with lines of weakening defining a break open portion for the exposure of the dispensing tube which is contained within the casing. 5. A package according to any preceding claim, wherein there are two shoulders or flanges on the said dispensing tube, spaced by a predetermined interval, so that the shoulders can locate on location mounting means of the dispensing system, causing the section of tube between the shoulders to be located round the peristaltic pump rotor with predetermined tension, for the pumping of the liquid from the bag. 6. A package according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the dispensing tube is of flexible material, such as rubber and has a sealed end which must be cut to enable the package to be used in a dispensing machine. 7. A package according to any preceding claim, wherein the dispensing tube is of flexible material, and the said flange or shoulder means is integral therewith. 8. A package according to any preceding claim wherein the said liquid is beverage or beverage concentrate. 9. A dispensing system comprising a disposable package containing a liquid to be dispensed, the package having a dispensing tube which extends from the package to a dispensing head, said dispensing head having a means pinching a flexible end of the said tube closed, means for forcing beverage or beverage concentrate from the package to the end of the dispensing tube at the dispensing head, and an actuator connecting the means pinching the end of the dispensing tube, which actuator, when actuated causes release of the pinching on the end of the dispensing tube and, if necessary, operation of the means delivering the liquid to the dispensing head, whereby the beverage or beverage concentrate will be dispensed from the end of the tube upon actuation of said actuation means. 10. A dispensing system according to claim 9, wherein the means pinching the end of the tube is a solenoid actuated member, and the actuating means comprises electrical actuation means for operating the solenoid to cause release of said pinching. 11. A dispensing system according to claim 10, wherein an electrically driven peristaltic pump serves to pump the liquid through the dispensing tube, and the said pump being connected to the solenoid so that both will be actuated when the actuation means is operated. 12. A dispensing system according to any of claims 9 to 11 wherein the said dispensing tube is flexible, and is adapted to be positioned in the dispensing head and removed therefrom in a fashion to permit of replacement of the package and dispensing tube by another of the same type. 13. A dispensing system comprising a disposable package having a dispensing tube, including at least a section of flexible material in relation to which the tube has flange or shoulder means, a peristaltic pump associated with mounting means for engagement of the said shoulder or flange means, so that the said section of material will extend round the peristaltic pump rotor with tension for pumping the liquid from the package, a dispensing head and means for operating the system so that upon operation of said means the peristaltic pump will rotate to deliver liquid from the package to the dispensing head. 14. A dispensing system according to any of claims 9 to 13, wherein the dispensing system is for dispensing a beverage, the disposable packaging containing a beverage concentrate and the system including supply of carbonated water coupled to the dispensing head, so that when the actuating means is actuated, the concentrate and water flow in a predetermined ratio in order to provide a beverage. 15. A dispensing system according to any one of claims 9 to 12, wherein the package is according to claim 1.

## Description
This invention relates to the dispensing of liquids, including pasty fluent materials, and has particular reference to the dispensing of drinks, and when used in such application the invention may be applied to the inhome or commercial dispensing of drinks.The invention can be applied to the dispensing of carbonated drinks or uncarbonated drinks from a counter for example in a cafeteria or a shop or some other location by means of conventional dispensing heads or by means of a specially adapted machine for the dispensing of drinks.The invention has particular applicability to drinks which are mixed in that they comprise a flavouring syrup and water, these two constituents being mixed only when the drink is dispensed, but being kept separate until dispensing takes place. These mixed drinks may be carbonated or uncarbonated, and when the drink is carbonated, it is usual for the water to be carbonated, but the present invention is not to be considered as being limited thereto.In an in home situation, there may be a dispensing machine adapted to dispense water and flavouring syrup in a predetermined ratio upon demanding of the machine to dispense a drink. Such machines more recently have been adapted for dispensing carbonated drinks, and in such machines a carbon dioxide cylinder in the machine serves to propel the syrup and water to the dispensing head. In larger installations, for example in cafeterias and bars, there may be a large water tank, a carbonator, a large carbon dioxide cylinder which is used to carbonate the water, and a syrup tank, these components being coupled to the dispensing head at the bar or counter top.It is usual for the system to include some form of refrigeration means for keeping the syrup and or water chilled.The present invention concerns a liquid dispensing system and in particular a beverage dispensing system which will faciliate interchange of especially the syrup tanks with the minimum of difficulty, and under conditions of maximum hygiene, because in these dispensing systems involving concentrated syrup, the dispensing conditions must be maintained in the best condition from the point of view of hygiene. Concentrated syrup in contact with air tends to crystallize, which encourages bacterial growth. Although the invention has particular application in a mixed drink dispenser, it is conceived that it can be utilised for dispensing a drink which has been pre mixed i.e. which comprises the flavouring and water mixed in the predetermined ratio prior to the dispensing step, and indeed the invention can be used for the dispensing of liquids, including pasty fluent materials in general.The present invention is concerned with a system of dispensing liquid, especially but not exclusively beverage concentrate or beverage, which employs a disposable package containing the liquid to be dispensed, and, built round the disposable package concept, a number of aspects of the invention have resulted. It is felt desirable that a disposable package system is of considerable interest insofar as the intention is that the disposable packages could be sealed units easily insertable in the system and easily replaceable. This arrangement would also provide for the effective control of quality of the liquid dispensed.According to a first aspect of the invention, there is provided a disposable package for use in a beverage dispensing system, wherein the package contains a liquid which is dispensed through a dispensing tube of the package, said dispensing tube having at least a section of flexible material which is for engagement by the rotor of a peristaltic pump for the dispensing of the liquid, said dispensing tube having shoulder or flange means for location in relation to a mounting means associated with a peristaltic pump, so that the said section of the flexible tube will be mounted in predetermined location in relation to the perstaltic pump rotor, when in use.This aspect of the invention is extremely valuable, insofar as by suitably designing the dispensing tube, it can be arranged that a particular portion of the dispensing tube will be positioned in relation to the means, namely the peristaltic pump, for driving the liquid from the package, and the said section can be made of predetermined flexibility and length. In a particularly suitable arrangement, the dispensing tube is provided with spaced shoulder or flange means, and the dispensing system would be provided with appropriate mounting means. In use, the shoulder or flange means would be arranged in relation to the mounting means so that the section of dispensing tube between the shoulders would be stretched around the peristaltic pump rotor under tension, ensuring that during rotation of the peristaltic pump rotor, liquid would be pumped to the dispensing point.As well as this arrangement providing that the dispensing tube can be accurately and quickly positioned, additionally it is not necessary to have a backing plate on the peristaltic pump against which the peristaltic pump rotor has to react, as has been provided in some prior art arrangements. In a further aspect of the invention, there is provided a beverage dispensing system comprising a disposable package containing a liquid to be dispensed, the package having a dispensing tube which extends from the package to a dispensing head, said dispensing head having a means pinching a flexible end of the said tube closed, means for forcing beverage or other beverage concentrate from the package to the end of the dispensing tube at the dispensing head, and an actuator connecting the means pinching the end of the dispensing tube, which actuator, when actuated, causes release of the pinching on the end of the dispensing tube and, if necessary, operation of the means delivering the liquid to the dispensing head, whereby the beverage or beverage concentrate will be dispensed from the end of the tube upon actuation of said actuation means.This aspect of the invention provides that the end of the tube is pinched by a pinching means in a dispensing head, ensuring that there will be no flow of liquid from the dispensing head until such times as the pinching effect is removed. In yet a third aspect of the invention, a beverage dispensing system comprises a disposable package having a dispensing tube, including at least a bI ction of flexible material in relation to which the tube has flange or shoulder means1 a peristaltic pump associated with the mounting means for engagement of the said shoulder or flange means, so that the said section of material extends round the peristaltic pump rotor with under tension to ensure pumping of the liquid from the package, a dispensing head and means for operating the system so that upon operation of said means, the peristaltic pump will rotate to deliver liquid from the package to the dispensing head.The said dispensing system may be for dispensing beverage, the disposable package containing a beverage concentrate and the system including a supply of carbonated water coupled to the dispensing head, so that when the actuating means is actuated, the concentrate and water flow in a predetermined ratio in order to provide a beverage.In commercial beverage dispensing systems, it will be normal to provide that only replacement syrup is contained in a disposable package, as the water supply will be permanently available from the mains, but it is possible for a small transportable in home unit to provide that the syrup and the water are in disposable packages, so that a suitably designed machine can be used in locations, for example out of doors, where no drinkable water supply is available.The said peristaltic pump may be adapted to be driven by a small electric motor, or in other applications, such as an in home application, the peristaltic pump rotor means may be adapted to be rotated by hand.By the utilisation of a sealed disposable package, maximum hygiene conditions can be maintained as the package remains sealed and when empty is simply disconnected and thrown away. There is no collection of used containers, and there is no cleaning and washing of used syrup containers such as occurs at present, in commercial installations.Embodiments of the present invention will now be described, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying diagrammatic drawings, wherein Fig. 1 is a sectional elevation illustrating a package according to one embodiment of the present invention, when operatively connected to a peristaltic pump Fig. 2 shows, in perspective elevation, the peristaltic pump shown in Fig. 1, the package discharge tube and the syrup supply pipe Fig. 3 is a perspective view of a package according to another embodiment of the invention Fig. 4 is a perspective elevation of the package shown inFig. 3, when installed in a beverage dispensing system Fig. 5 is a sectional side elevation showing how the flexible bag outlet is locked in position in the casing Fig. 6 is a diagrammatic illustration of the elements of the beverage dispensing system, employing package as shown in Figs. 3 to 5 Fig. 7 is a sectional elevation of part of the dispensing head as shown in Fig. 6 andFig. 8 is a sectional elevation, to enlarged scale, of the end of the dispensing tube of the package shown in Figs. 3 to 5, prior to severing of same.Referring to Figs. 1 and 2 of the drawings, the following description relates toa commercial carbonated beverage dispensing system which includes a dispensing head provided with a lever or button for actuation to dispense a drink. On such actuation, syrup and carbonated water chilled are dispensed to provide the final beverage in a drinking vessel held under an outlet nozzle at the dispensing head. The syrup and water may be mixed prior to issuing from the outlet or they may be mixed in the cup. The water line from the mains to the dispensing head is conventional and may include a storage tank, a refrigeration unit and carbonating unit, in any combination or arrangement.The syrup container and the syrup line embody asects of the present invention. k syrup supply line 10 Fig. 2 leads to the dispensing head. This dispensing line 10 may be arranged to lie adjacent the refrigeration means in order that syrup therein is chilled. The other end of the line 10, as shown in Fig. 2, is provided with a coupling nipple 12 for the quick connection of the line 10 to the syrup container according to the invention. The outlet tube 14 of the said container is shown in Fig. 2. This tube 14 is of flexible plastics material, and the portion shown in Fig. 2 towards the free end is provided with support collars or flanges 16 and 18 which respectively are for engaging the top of the support plate 20 of a peristaltic pump assembly, also shown in Fig. 2.The peristaltic pump assembly comprises a rotor means 22 provided with at least two rollers 24 for engaging the portion 13 of the tube 14 between the collars 16 and 18 in use, in order to effect pumping of syrup through the tube 14 and into the tube 10, and eventually to the dispensing head. The pump assembly also includes an electric motor 26 which is drivingly coupled to the rotor 22 in order to rotate same. To couple the portion 13 of the tube 14 operatively to the peristaltic pump assembly, the collars 16 and 18 are located above the plate 20 by slipping the tube 14 into the slots 28 and 30 in the said plate 20 and by stretching the portion 13 of flexible tube between the collars 16 and ls around the rotor 22 so that this portion is engaged, by the peristaltic rollers 24.This method of coupling a section of the tube between collars 16 and 18 provides an extremely desirable result. In the first place, it is not necessary to provide any reaction surface for the peristaltic pump rotor, which is the case with the conventional peristaltic pumping arrangements, and secondly, because the section 13 between collars 16 and 18 is stretched around the rotor with tension related to the sizing of the rotor, the positioning of plate 20 and the length of section between collars 16 and 18, automatically a particular rate of dispensing fluid is achieved. Furthermore, fitting of the dispensing tube to the peristaltic pump is extremely simple and effective.In Fig. 1, the rotor 22 of the peristaltic pump assembly is shown, with the tube 14 in operative position in relation thereto. The rotor 22 is adapted to be rotated in the direction of arrow 32 in Fig. 1, when operational, to pump syrup from a flexible bag container 34 to the dispensing head as indicated by the arrow 36 in Fig. 1.The container illustrated in Fig. 1 as well as including the plastic bag 34, which is flexible and collapsible, and contains in this case three gallons of concentrated syrup, includes a casing 38 which may be a cardboard casing or a permanent stand or wire frame to support the flexible and collapsible bag 34. The bag is provided with only one outlet being the outlet through the tube 14, and this tube is long enough as shown in Fig. 1, to extend from the bottom end of the bag 34, up to the top end and then round the peristaltic pump rotor. The peristaltic pump assembly may be mounted on the stand or frame for the disposable syrup package in order to ensure it has the correct positional relationship for the location of the portion 13 of the tube 14 which extends around the peristaltic pump rotor 22. The bag 34 is in fact inverted into the position shown inFig. 1, which is the in use position.It will be appreciated that as the syrup within the bag 34 is used up, so the bag will collapse until, when there is no syrup left, the bag will be completely collapsed and the package can be thrown away and a replacement container assembly comprising a bag and long tube can be inserted quickly and easily. Each unit comprising a plastic bag and tube may be provided with a non return valve to make the pack pilfer proof. Instead of being supported by an outer case, stand or frame, the bag can be adapted to be suspended by hanging in the in use position.At least the portion of the tube 14 which engages the peristaltic pump rotor should be of a flexible material, such as rubber, suitable for pumping by a peristaltic method.Referring to Figs. 3 to 5, an alternative embodiment of a package according to the invention is shown, and the package comprises an outer case 50 of cut and creased sheet material such as cardboard, which is folded and sealed to define a cubic shape, the top of the case being sealed by means of adhesive tape 52, or the like which overlaps top closure flaps 54 and 56. The flaps 54 and 56 overlap inner closure flaps, the said flaps being hinged to the top edges of the respective sides 62, 64, 66 and 68 of the outer case. In side 64 of the outer casing, there are defined window panels 63 and 65 which can be removed to expose the outer surface of the flexible bag.These are used when the flexible bag is of transparent material, so that by viewing through the resulting window apertures, a user can determine the level of syrup concentrate in the flexible bag and can guess when it will be necessary in the future to replace the concentrate. It will be morse usual however, to use a plasic metallised film to keep out ultraviolet light and oxygen penetration. Partly in the base 70 and partly in side 62 of the outer case there is defined a break open key hole panel 72 by means of slits or other lines of weakening and panel 72 is shown in open condition in Fig. 4. To gain access to the interior of the package, the portion panel is simply torn back as indicated in Fig. 4.This tearing back of portion 72 exposes a flexible dispensing tube 76 integral with a sealed inner flexible bag 78 containing the liquid 80 Fig. 5 to be dispensed. The tube 76 as shown in Fig. 3 is stored in the casing 50 and is connected to the bag 78 by means of a pilfer proof connection 74. The tube 76 is provided with collars or flanges 82 and 84 which serve the same function as the collars 16 and 18 of the Fig. 1 embodiment, but additionally the tube 76 has at its outer end, a further collar 86. The said tube 76 and collars 82, 84 and 86 are integral and are fabricated from the same flexible material which may be rubber or the like.Fig. 4 shows the disposable package in position in a stand 88 of the dispensing system. The top of the casing 50 is usually kept closed to prevent the top of the bag 78 from being it is punctured.Fig. 5 shows that the connector 74 compries a pair of large diameter collars 75 between which is a neck 77.The neck 77 fits frictionally in the round portion 79 of the keyhole slot left by tearing away the case portion 72 so that the connector 74 remains firmly in position.Referring now to Fig. 6, this figure shows diagrammatically how the package 50 is positioned in a dispensing system for dispensing a beverage which is made up of concentrate 80 and carbonated water. The tube 76 is shown as operatively connected to a peristaltic pump 92, in the same manner as described in relation to Figs. 1 and 2, and the free end of the tube 76 is located in a dispensing head 94 from which there is an outlet 96 for the mixed beverage.Also connected to the head is a supply of carbonated water from a carbonator 98. The carbonator 98 receives water from a supply tank 100 and carbonating gas from a carbon dioxide vessel 102. The carbonated water passes from cabonator 98 to the dispensing head 94 through supply pipe 104, and the dispensing head is provided with an actuator button 106, depression of which results in dispensing of a carbonated beverage from the dispensing nozzle 96. The dispensing head 94 may have adjusting means, such as screws for varying the rate of flow of syrup and or water.Referring now to Fig. 7, in which a diagrammatic sectional elevation of the dispensing head is shown, the head comprises a body 108, including a mixing chamber 110, the lower end of which opens to atmosphere through dispensing nozzle 94, the top of which is closed by means of a plug 112. The pipe 104 projects into the chamber 110 as does the end of the dispensing tube 76. The extent to which the end of tube 76 projects into chamber 110 is dictated by the collars 86 abutting the body 108 as shown in Fig. 7.The body houses a reciprocable armature 114 the end of which defines a nose 116 which pinches the end of the dispensing tube 76 as shown and prevents flow of concentrate therethrough. The armature 116 is spring loaded to the position shown by means of a compression spring 118, and another portion of the armature 116 is surrounded by an electro magnetic coil 120. The coil 120 is actuated when the button 106 is depressed in order to lift the nose 116 from the tube 76 and to permit the flow of concentrate therethrough into the chamber 110 where the concentrate is mixed with carbonated water supplied at a predetermined rate so as to provide a mixture which is a pallatable drink and which is caught in for example a drinking cup 122.Depression of the button 106 also causes rotation of the rotor of the peristaltic pump 90 so that the syrup is driven through the dispensing tube 76.The depression of the button 106 may also cause release of a valve or the like controlling flow of carbonated water through the pipe 104. It is usual for the carbonated water to be driven to the dispensing head using the pressure of the carbon dioxide yas supply 102.If reference is made to Fig. 8 it will be shown that the end of the tube 76 when the disposable package is supplied, is in fact sealed in the region 124, and in an adjacent region 126, the sides of the tube 76 are flat, but are not internally sealed. To put the disposable package into use therefore, it is necessary to severe the tube 76 at the end in the region 26 so that the end of the dispensing tube acts like a flap or clapper valve, preventing back flow of concentrate along the tube 76, and also mitigating against any dripping of the concentrate when there is no dispensing of beverage taking place.This arrangement also inhibits the formation of residue on the extremity of the dispensing tube 76.When the concentrate in a disposable package has been consumed, it is an extremely simple matter to fit a replacement package. To do this, the user simply breaks open the base of the outer case, pulls out the dispensing tube 76, positions the section of the dispensing tube 76 between collars 82 and 84 around the peristaltic pump rotor in the manner as described in relation to Figs. 1 and 2, cuts the end of the tube 76 in the region 126, and inserts the end portion of the dispensing tube up to the collar 86 in the appropriate bore in the body 108. In this connection, there is preferably provided a means whereby the armature 114 can be retracted manually against the force of spring 118 for the positioning of the tube 76 in the body 108. The invention provides an extremely convenient and easy method for the replenishment of syrup in a post mix dispensing system for dispensing of beverayes.Instead of the syrup and water mixing in the head and being dispensed in to a drinking vessel from the head, the syrup tube can be directed so as to extend close to the top of the drinking vessel, and the water can also be supplied through a tube which is directed into the drinking vessel so that mixing takes place in the drinking vessel and not in the head whereby the hygiene difficulties of cleaning the head are removed. The dispensing tube for the syrup is diposed of along with the package.