# A perpendicular magnetic recording and reproducing head apparatus and a magnetic recording system using the same.

## Abstract
A magnetic recording and or reproducing head compris es a ring shaped core 41 provided with a gap 43 . A pair of coils 421, 422 are wound on the core and connection means 44 are connected to the coils 421, 422 for changing the mode of connection of the coils from between a first condition in which homopolar poles are formed across the gap 43 for recording and a second condition in which heteropoles are formed across the gap 43 for reproduction. The first condition can be achieved with the coils either inversely in parallel or inversely in series. The construction permits recording in a perpendicular direction in a recording medium 11 which can either be a conventional medium or a continuous film of Co Cr which is perpendicularly anisot ropic.

## Claims
CLAIMS t. A perpendicular magnetic recording and reproducing head apparatus characterized in that said apparatus is provided with a magnetic core 41 having a gap 43 in the magnetic path in part, at least a pair of coils 421, 422 wound on said magnetic core 41 , and a connecting means 44 capable of changing said coils into a connecting condition for generating homopolar magnetic charges in a pair of magnetic poles opposite each other through said gap and into that of generating heteropolar magnetic charges in the same magnetic poles, with respect to a common signal current flowing simultaneously in said coils. 2. Apparatus according to claim 1, characterised in that the connecting means 44 is arranged to connect said coil inversely in parallel to each other during recording. 3. Apparatus according to claim 1, characterised in that the connecting means 44 is arranged to connect said coils inversely in series with each other during recording. 4. A magnetic recording system which uses a magnetic a head having a gap in a magnetic path in member so as to magnetize a medium moving in proximity to said gap, characterised in that a pair of magnetic poles opposite to each other through a gap 43 generate homopolar magnetic charges so that a signal magnetic field is generated in said gap to magnetize said medium 11 , said signal magnetic field performing magnetization thicknesswise of said medium, that is, malllly of vertical component. 5. A magnetic recording system according to claim 4i 5. A magnetic recording system according to claim 4, characterised in that said medium 11 is composed of one or more magnetic layers 12 comprising magnetic particles mixed in a binding material, said magnetic layers being coated onto a substrate. 6. A magnetic recording system according to claim 4, characterised in that said medium 11 comprises a magnetic layer 12 formed on a substrate by means of vapor coating. 7. A magnetic recording system according to claim 4, characterised in that said medium 11 comprises a magnetic layer 12 formed on said substrate by means of depositing. 8. A magnetic recording system according to claim 4, characterised in that said medium il comprises a magnetic layer 12 forme d on said substrate by means of transfer.

## Description
A PERPENDICULAR MAGNETIC RECORDING AND REPRODUCING HEAD APPARATUS AND A MAGNETIC RECORDING SYSTEM USING THE SAME This invention relates to a perpendicular magnetic recording and reproducing head apparatus suitable for recording and reproducing onto a perpendicular magnetic recording medium. Perpendicular magnetic recording has recently been promoted for practical use in various fields for the purpose of increasing the density of information above the limit of a conventional magnetic recording. Such perpendicular magnetic recording uses a recording medium, e.g.1 a Co Cr film, which has its axis of easy magnetization axis in the direction of the thickness of the film, the medium being magnetized by a particular magnetic head to record information.Such a method can solve the problem of demagnetization which is unavoidable for magnetization under the surface Of conventional medium film magnetization lengthwise of a tape when in use , thereby accomplishing a high recording density. A recording and reproducing head for perpendicular recording has been proposed in which two magnetic pole pieces are spaced apart and one of the pole pieces is provided with a coil for recording or reproducing signals on a recording medium disposed in the gap between the pole pieces. . This construction suffers from a number of disadvantag e.g. the relative positioning of the medium in the gap is critical which means that the head is not suitable for use in a helical scan video tape recorder where the heads are rotated due to the extremely complex head drive mechanism required, nor is it useful for fixed head recording where tracking is required. An object of the present invention is to provide a recording and reproducing head for perpendicular recording which can be used from only one side of the recording medium The present invention provides a perpendicular magneti recording and reproducing head apparatus characterised in that said apparatus is provided with a magnetic core 41 having a gap 43 in the magnetic path in part, at least a pair of coils 421, 422 wound on said magnetic core 41 , and a connecting means 44 capable of changing said coils into a connecting condition for generating homopolar magnetic charges in a pair of magnetic poles opposite each other through said gap and into that of generating heteropolar magnetic charges in the same magnetic poles, with respect to a common signal current flowing simultaneously in said coils. An advantage of the present invention is that in addition to providing a transducer head operating from only. one side of the recording medium, the efficiency of reproduction is as high as in convnetional longitudinal recording. This is brought about by the switch from a homopolar mode to a heteropolar mode. It is not necessary to use special recording material as conventional recording materials have been found to give satisfactory results. In order that the present invention be more readily understood, embodiments thereof will now be described by way of example with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Fig. 1 is a perspective view of a previously proposed perpendicular magnetic recording and reproducing head Figs. 2 and 3 are perspective views of magnetic cores corresponding to a closed flux loop CFL mode and a counter flux flow CFF mode for explanation of the principles of the invention Figs. 4 and 5 show perpendicular magnetic recording and reproducing head apparatus of the invention and of a recording and reproducing method using the head apparatus corresponding to the CFF mode and the CFL mode Fig. 6 is a wave form chart of square wave recorded by use of the recording method of the invention Figs 7 and 8 are graphs showing the characteric curves of the recording density, in which the curve A shows the embodiments and that B comparison examples of the invention and Fig. 9 shows an embodiment of the recording system of the invention, in which the inversely parallel connection is shown. Before describing the present invention, it is thought that a discussion of the previous proposal for perpendicular recording would be of assistance. A previously proposed magnetic head used for perpendicular magnetic recording is constructed as shown in Fig. 1, and comprises a main magnetic pole 10 disposed opposite to a medium 11 comprising a verticallymagnetizing film 12 and a base film 13 and an auxiliary magnetic pole 14 disposed opposite the main pole 10 and a sandwiching the medium 11 between the main pole 10 and the auxiliary pole 14. The main pole 10 comprises a thin strip film of 1 to 3 pm in thickness and of a material exhibiting a high magnetic permeability , the film being held by a non magnetic material not shown , such as glass. The auxiliary pole 14 is formed of, for example, ferrite and is thicker than the main magnetic pole. A coil is provided on the auxiliary pole 14 for recording and reproducing signal The gap between the main pole 10 and the auxiliary pole 14 is usually about 100 jim, the medium 11 being moved while keeping the surface of vertically magnetizing film 12 in contact with or in close proximity to main magnetic pole 10. The head records signals on medium 11 in the intense vertical magnetic field of main magnetic pole 10 generated by energizing auxiliary magnetic pole 14 and introduces to auxiliary magnetic pole 14 the magnetic flux of pole 10 generated by te magnetic field from perpendicular magnetizing film 12, thereby reproducing signals.Such a recording and reproducing head assumes that the main magnetic pole 10 operates as a sink for the magnetic flux generated by auxiliary magnetic pole 14 and the thickness of main magnetic pole 10 corresponds to the length of the gap of a ring shaped magnetic head. It is reported that after research on the combinatioi of perpendicular head and Co Cr perpendicular film, the limit of recording density to be hereinafter called D determine 50 by the 6 dB lower point at the low density output is 26 kFCPI flux change per inch . The maximum defect of the previously proposed perpendicular magnetic recording and reproducing head,as easily supposed from its construction, is low efficiency resulting from the use of an almost open magnetic path. Aurthen, expectable from the dimensions and shape of main magnetic pole it is not expected that a yoke for converging the magnetic flux can be provided. The main magnetic pole, as abovementioned, should be reduced in thickness in order to get a high density, but the conversion efficiency of the head becomes poor and the reproduction sensitivity deteriorates remarkably by reducing the thickness of main magnetic pole, thereby now adopting the pole of about 1 Jim in thickness. However, in spite of the disadvantages it has been considered that the use of a ring head combined with aCo Cr perpendicular film is the shortest way to practical use, and researche in this field has been progressively promoted. Typical values resulting from the research have been announched by Fujitsu Ltd., in which D50 23 kFCPI using a ring head of a gap length of 0.7 and by researchers at Tohoku University in which D D50 40 to 45 kFCPI using a gap length of 0.3 . when the previously proposed ring head is used as the perpendicular head, the vector of magnetic field generated by the ring head, as well known, includes a strong longitudinal, i.e. lengthwise component, with respect to the recording medium so that the medium should be provided with properties such that it is easily magnetizable only vertically in order to carry out the perpendicular recording. In other words, the medium should comprise a perpendicular film. The perpendicular film, however, can only be made at present in the form of continuous film which is generally deemed difficult to use in slidable contact with the head. It is impossible in fact to use the continuous film in contact with the head when wishing to use perpendicular recording is floppy disc applications which actually becomes a large factor of a hindrance to practical use of the perpendicular magnetic recording. Turnig now to the present invnetion, attention...is directed to Figs. 2 and 3 which are used to explain the principle of the invention. EXample A Fig. 2 Two Cshapedpermanent magnets of about 0.8 cm in cross sectional area and of about 4 cm in average length of magnetic path were prepared, heteropolar poles were disposed opposite each other through spacers of about 100 um as shown in Fig. 2, and leakage flux in the vicinity of gaps was measured vertically and horizontally by use of a gauss meter. The results were 300 gauss and 100 gauss.Example B Fig. 3 The same magnets as in the example A were disposed with homopolar poles opposite each other through spacers and the same measurement was carried out to obtain 40 gauss horizontal and i KGauss vertical. From the above two examples, it is understandable that the leakage flux in the vicinity of gap with respect to the same magnetomotive force is larger in Example B , in other words, in a condition of generating homopolar magnetic charges to be hereinafter called Counter FluxFlow CFF mode the magnetic flux near the gap in CFF mode is mostly vertical and in Example A , in other words, a condition of generating hereopolar magnetic charges to be hereinafter called Closed Flux Loop CFL mode at a pair of magnetic poles opposite to each other through the gaps, there are more horizontal magnetic fields corresponding to the usual ring type magnetic head for lengthwise magnetization in longitudinal recording. The above two examples use permanent magnets for convenience of description but actually, the ring type magnetic head uses no permanent magetic material, but a magnetically soft material, e.g. a permalloyor.ferrite in the maganese zinc family. The magnetic field for magnetizing the medium is generated as the leakage flux at the gap portion by causing a signal current to flow in the coil wound on the magnetic cor. Figs. q and 5 show on embodiment of a prÅactical example of a vertical magnetic recording and reproducing head apparatus accqrding to the above principle and .components having the same function as in Fig. 1 are designated by the same reference numerals. Fig. 4 shows a recording condition of the perpendicular magnetic recording and reproducing head apparatus in which a pair of magnetic poles opposite to each other through a gap generate homopolar magnetic charges in response to a signal current to thereby obtain the effective perpendicular magnetic field. For this purpose, a pair of coils 421, 422 are connected inversely in parallel to or inversely in series with each other by a switch 44 Fig. 4 shows the inverse series connection .Thus, a CFF mode is formed so that coils 421, 422 generate magnetomotive forces and magnetic flux Bi, 2 circulate within magnetic core 41, the flux 1 and 82 flowing inversely to each other so as to repel each other at the position of gap 43, thereby generating an effectively perpendicular magnetic field to magnetize perpendicular magnetizing film 12. Fig. 5 shows a reproducing condition of the perpendicular magnetic recording and reproducing head apparatus of the invention, in which the coils 421 and 422 are connected normally in series to constitute theCFL mode. It is well known from many research reports that the signal recorded on perpendicular magnetizing film 12 is reproduced effectively by the conventional ring type magnetic head in CFL mode. The ring type magnetic head, as abovementioned, changes the connection of its windings by use of well known switching means, such as an electromagnetic contactor, to thereby meet the purpose, thus making it possible to record signals on the perpendicular magnetizing film in a high efficiency and reproduce them from the same As seen from the above the present invention relates to the magnetic recording system which generates homopolar magnetic charges at a pair of magnetic poles opposite to ach .o. th er t hrQugh the gapsso .thatthe signalmagnetic field having a principal effect in its perpendicular component is generated at the gap, thereby magnetizing the medium. This invention does not need a complex head drive mechanism since the head is used at only one side of the medium. The recording system of the invention can obtain a sufficient effect in the recording density without requiring perpendicular easy magnetization for the medium itself due to the fact that the longitudinal component of the vector magnetic field is absent in the vicinty of the gap. Next, the embodiments and comparison examples will be detailed. Example 1 A ring shaped magnetic core having a gap of 1.5 P in length, track of 1.5mm in width, and magnetic path of average 25 mm in length, and having windings each of 500 turns on both arms, is used to form a head for trial. A magnetic tape is formed which comprises a strip of an organic film which is about 10 in thickness and coated with particulate iron oxide of 0.4 P in average particle size. The test tape is coated in about 4 u thickness and has a coercive force of 5600e. The windings of test head are connected inversely in parallel as shown in Fig. 9, to record on the test tape a 500Hz square wave. Thereafter the coil connection is changed into normal series connection corresponding to the use of conventiona ring shaped head to observe the repr uced w ave form. The reproduced wave form is shown in Fig. 6, from which the magnetization perpendicular of the medium by the test head is seen refer to Recording Characteristics of Single Pole Type Magnetic Head by Shunichi Iwasaki, Yoshihisa Nakamura and Isao Watanabe, in Japanese Electronic Communications Academy, Magnetic Recording Research Society Data No. MR 76 16,1976 . Example 2 A combination of the head in Embodiment 1 and a medium isused to measure the magnetic density characteristic see the curve A in Fig. 7 . In Fig. 7, the ordinate axis represents output voltage through an amplifier of a 60 dB gain. The limit recording density determined at the point where the output voltage decreases by 6 dub of the output at the low density side, is D50 6.2 kFCPI.Comparative Example 1 The test head in Example 2 has windings connected normally in series and measures the recording density characterics in the same way as Example 2 with respect to a medium coated in longitudinal orientation with an accicular shaped Fe203 magnetic powder commercial available see the curve B in Fig. 7 . In this instance the limit recording density was D50 1.5 kFCPI.Example 3 The test head the same as Example 1 except for a gap length of 0.8 u, was used to measure the limit recording density similarly to Example 2 with respect to a medium the same as Example 1. The result was D50 35 kFCPI see the curve A in Fig. 8 Comparative Example 2 The windings of test head in Example 3 were connected normally in series so as to measure the limit recording density characteristics similarly to Example 2 with respect to the medium used in Comparative Example 1. The result was D50 5.5 kFCPI see the curve B in Fig. 8 . Example 4 The windings of test head in Example 1 were connected inversely in series and the test tape in the same was used to record a 500Hz square wave, and thereafter, the windings were changed to be connected normally in series to observe the reproduced wave form, resulting in that the same wave form as in Fig. 6 was gained. In other words, it has been seen that this example essentially has the same effect in the inversely series connection as the inversely parallel connection. Example 5 The test head in Example 1 was used to record a 500Hz square wave on commercially available cobalt evaporated tape and the reproduced wave form was observed by the same method as Example 1. As a result, the same wave form as in Fig. 6 has been obtained. As seen from the above embodiments and comparative examples, the head apparatus of the invention can carry out vertical recording on a medium by a simple way using basically a conventional ring head. Also, since the vector magnetic field generated by the head is rich in components perpendicular to the medium, there is no need to require intense perpendicular anisotropy in the medium itself. In other words high density recording using perpendicular magnetization can be achieved using not only a perpendicular magnetizing medium such as Co Cr continuous film but also a convnetional coated medium with high reliability. Alternatively, the recording system of the invention may of course be applicable to all media, such as a magnetic film produced by sputtering, plated magnetic film, magnetic film produced by CVD, or a resin molded body. The magnetic head of the invention is suitable for the so called multi recording which has the easy magnetization direction perpendicular and longitundal, for example, a1r amedium in two layers, and records on the same medium, various different information.