# New and improved glass fiber mats particularly useful for built up roofing membranes and systems.

## Abstract
A glass fiber mat having an advantageous combination of high tensile strength and tear resistance properties for use in built up roofing BUR membranes and systems. The mat includes two fibrous components, namely, individual fiber filaments and extended fiber elements, which are present in substantially equal amounts by weight of the mat. The total number of fibrous components in the enmeshed glass fibers is predetermined to provide the desired combination of high strength characteristics. The glass mats are made in a wet laid process in which bundles of sized glass fibers having a predetermined fiber diameter, particularly 13 14 microns, and a fiber length between 19 and 44 mm., are well dispersed in a chemical dispersant material whose concentration is predetermined in accordance with the length of fibers used.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A new and improved glass fiber mat particularly useful for making built up roofing membranes comprising i enmeshed glass fibrous components formed by dispersion of bundles of glass fibers in a tlet laid process, said fibers having a diameter of about 13 14 microns and a length between 19 and 44 mm., said fibrous components Including individual filament fibers and extended fiber elements which are present in about equal anounts by weight, and ii a binder substance to bold said fibrous con ponents together. 2. A glass fiber mat according to claim 1 wherein the porosity of the mat is at least 100 m3 m2 min. 3. A glass fiber mat according to Claim 1 wherein said mat has a porosity of 140 m3 m2 min. 4. A glass fiber mat according to Claim 1 whrien said fibers are sized. A A glass fiber mat according to Claim 1 wherein the extended fiber elements rave about 2 to 200 fibers per element therein. 6. N glass fiber mat according to Claim 1 wherein the total number of said fibrous components in a unit area of the enmeshed glass fibrous components is between .9 and 0.6 x IC0 fibers per m2, at a Is weight on about 80 g m2 and a mat thickness of about 0.7 mm. 7. A glass fiber mat according to Claim 6 wherein said fibers have a length of about 32 mm., and the total number of said fibrous components is about 3.9 x 106 fibers per m2. 8. A glass fiber mat according to Claim 6 having a tensile strengh of 300 N 50 mm. width MD and an Blmendorf tear strength of 5.6 N riD , at a glass mat basis weight of about 100 g m and a binder level of 20 by weight of said mat. 9. L new and improved built up roofing membrane according to Claim 1 further characterized by including saturant asphalt impregnated in said mat. 10. A built up roofing membrane according to Claim 9 having a tensile strength of 550 N 50 mm. width MD and an Elmendorf tear strength of 7 N MD , at a glass mat basis weight of about 100 g m2 and a binder level of 20 by weight of said mat. 11. A built up roofing systen accerding to Claim 9 comprising multiple plies of said high strength built up roofing membrans and adhesive asphaltic coatings between said membranes. 12. A 3 ply built up roofing system according toClaim 11 having three plies of said membranes therein.

## Description
NEW AND IMPROVED GLASS FIBER MATS PARTICULARLYUSEFUL FOR BUILT UP ROOFING MEMBRANES ANDSYSTEMS This invention relates to new and improved glass fiber mats which are particularly useful for built up roofing membranes and systems. 3uilt up roofing BUR membranes and systems are used primarily on or commercial buildings, and, to the sub stantial exclusion of other roofing types, on large in dustrial buildings of low Profile. Z ts popularity arises from its relatively low cost combined with its effec tiveness as a weather repellant surface and its dur ability.The major drawback in its use is that a unique combination of bota high tensile and tear strength pro perties is required. These rigid requirements arise be cause built up roofing systems, unlike residential roofing are subject to severe stresses induced internally or ex terpaly by the surrounding atmospher, including ex mansion caused by the presence of moisture internal to the system, and both expansion and contraction forces caused by variation in ambient temperature conditions. For these and other reasons, it is essential that built up roofing systems possess an excellent balance of both high tensile strength and tear resistance. In the pest, most roofing products were made of organic felt impregnated with ajsphalt. However, organic felt is not fire resistant and it is expensive to manufacture. ccordingly, the industry has looked to class fiber mats to replace organic felts in this application. Several roofing products using glass fiber mats are described inU.S. patents 4,129,674 4,135,022 and 4,135,029. These ats rely uton either continuous glass fiber strands or elongated, rod like bundles of fibers as reinforcing agents to achieve the desired combination of tensile and tear strenGth propertios. Unfortunately, such mats are expensive and difficult to make.In U.S. patents 4,200,487 and 4,233,353 there is described a wet laid process of making glass fiber mats which exhibit exceedingly high tear strengths. Such nats are made from very long fibers which generate a predominate amount of extended fiber lments durin the process. Extended fiber elements are characterized structurally by being comprised of a p0lurality of longi tudinally connected fibers formed from extension of bundles of fibers which slide apart during the procese of dispersion of the fiber bundles.Thus the extended fiber elements have an exaggerated length and a nonuniform diameter, being greater in the mid section, where connection of fibers is greatest, 5 and tapered to wards its ends. Rowever, in practice it is rather difficult to disperse elongated fibers efficiently. In addition, the tensile strength of such products are rather modest.What is provided herein is a new and improved glass fiber mat which can be used in place of organic felts to make BUR products characterized particularly by thei unusual combination of both high tensile and tear strengths, and efficiency of manufactur, as compared to othr commercially available products of similar construction. The tensile strengths range from 270 to 550 N 50 . width MD , and the corresponding Elmendor tear strengths range from 5.0 to 6.6 N MD . rio ratio of tensile to tear strengths ranges from 40 1 to 70 1. The BUR products of the invention are characterized particularly by their unusual combination of both high tensile and tear strengths, and efficiency of manufacture, as compared to other commercially available products of similar construction. The tensile strengths range from 490 to 600 N 50 mm. width MD , and the corresonding Elmendorf tear strengths range from 6.0 to 8.1 N 50 mm. width lD . he ratio of tensile to tear strength is about 60 1 to 100 1.The enmeshed glass fibers in the mat includes t jo fibrous components, namely, individual filament fibers and extended fiber elements, which are present in substantially equal amounts by weight. he number of fibers in a given extended element is about 2 to 200, generally about 20 fibers ner element. Accordingly, , there are usually about 20 times as many individual filament fibers as etended element fibers im the mat. The number of both fibrous components resides between 2.9 and 6.6 x 106 fibers per m2 of the glass mat, at a glass weight of about 30 g m2 and 2 mat thickness of about 0.7 mm.The enmeshd glass fibers are made by a wet laid process using sized glass fiber bundles having a critical fiber diameter of 13 14 microns and a fiber length between 19 and 44 mm. the bundles are maintained at a given fiber consistency, and are disPersed under vigorous agitation in the presence of a predetermined concentration of a chemical dispersant. A higher concentration of dispersant is used with fibers of greater length most preferablv it ranges from 60 to 160 nnn. in the best mode embodiment of the invention, the glass mat has a tensile strength of 300 N 50 mm. width MD and tensile to tear strength ratio of 53 1. his mat is made from glass fibers having a length of 32 mm. and a diameter of 13 14 microns, d dispersed in 90 ppm. of dispersant. The total number of fibrous components in this glass mat is 3.9 x 106 fibers per m2. The BUR membrane has a tensile strength of 550 N 50 mm. width IID and tensile to tear strength ratio of 79 1. This membrane is made from glass fibers having a length of 32 mm. anc e diameter of 14 microns, dispersed in 9 ppm. of dispersant. to provide glass mats, anc BUR products, having the desired unusual combination of both high tensile and tear strengths, it is necessary o use glass fibers having a diameter of 13 14 microns and a length between 19 and 44 inches. Mats made with glass fibers having a diameter greater ha 13 14 microns have too few. fibers present in the mat to provide these properties, since the number of fibers present in a mat of given mass varies inversely with the square of the diameter of the fiber.On the other hand, mats made with fibers having a diameter lower than 13 14 micrns will produce mats having too man fibers, which will decrease toe porosity of the mat below a level required for impregnation of a suffiient amount of asphalt therein necessary for making commercial BUR product. single source of raw m terial is used in the wet laid process of making the glass fiber mats, namely, bundles of fiber glass, preferabl sized. Each bundle contains about 20 to 2000 fibers.The glass fiber bundles are maintained in an aqueons medium in which a chemical dispersant is present at a predetermind concentration. Any suitable dispersant material may be usd as long as it can effectively disperse the bundles. Several such materials are known in the art and are available for this purpose. However, a particularly useful dispersant is a tertiary amine oxide, such as romon DKHT, which is dimethyl hydrogenated t ollw amine oxide, sold by Armak Chemical Co.The use of this dispersant is described in U. . patent 4,179,351. The description hereinafter will be directed to this compound.The iber bundles are agitated vigorousl in th agueous dispersement medium to form a dilute fiber slurry of selected consistency. g this agitation, some of the bundles become unbundled or filamentized, i.e. form individual filaments. These filaments can become connected longitudinally to form an extended glass fiber element. Other bundles can slide apart to provide extended elements directly. The dispersant in the fiber slurry is maintained at a predetermined concentration of about 60 to 160 ppm. The lower concentration is more suitable for shorter fibers, while the higher concentration is used with longer fibers. In the best mode embodiment, a concentration of 90 ppm. is employed with fibers having a length of 32 m. Under these conditions, vigorous agitation of the fiber slurry for about 10 minutes will form mats having the desired equal amounts of individual filaments and extended fiber elements and the prescribed total number of fibrous components.The fibr slurry suitably is maintained at a consistency of about 0.30 to 0.50 by weight of the fibers in the flurry. Preferably it is decreased in increments of about 0.05 for each 6 mm. increase in tiber length.As in the usual wet laid processes, the concentrated dispersion slurry is diluted with water before being applid to the mat forming screen. Preferably the dispersion slourry is diluted about 5 to 25 times at the screen, and, optimally, about 10 times.The enmeshed glass fibers thus formed are provided with a suitable binder to hold the fibrous components together. Any commercially available binder may be used, such as urea formaldehyde or phenol formaldhyde resins. She binder usually is applid in an amount of about . to 50, by weight of the finishd mat, prefrably about 10 to 30 , and, optimally, ajbout 20 . Accordingly, the weight of fibers in the mat is about 50 to 95 , pre ferably 70 to 93 , and, optimally, about 80 , by weight of the mat.The basis weight of the finished glass fiber mat e n esnen fibers with binder usually is about 90 to 110 g m2. The mt generall is about 0. 7 rm, thick. The glass fiber mat exhibits Z porosity which is suitable for impregnation of asphalt to form BUR membranes. Such mats e7Nibit a porosity of at least 100 m3 m2 min., and usually 140 or more, as measured by the conventional Frazier ASTM D737 test method. BUR membranes are fabricated by impregnation of the glass fiber mat with a suitable. quantity of saturant asphalt, usually about 330 of asphalt based on the original wight of glass fiber mat. Then BUR roofing systems, e.g., 3 ply BUR systems, are made from multiple layers of BUR membranes which are held together with coatings of asphaltic adhesive. A summary of the preferred mbodiments of th invention are given in the Tabl below TABLE Number GLASS MAT of Fib Ten Tear Fiber rous sile StreFiber Con Compon Poro Stre ngth BURDia sist Disper ents in sity ngth N Tens Membrane Tensmeter Fiber ency sant Mat m2 N 50 Elemen ile Tens ile mic Leng by Conc. per m6ê m mm. dorf Tear ile Tear Tear rons th wt. ppm x 10 min MD MD Ratio MD MD Ratio 13 14 19 0.50 60 6.6 140 350 5.0 70.0 600 6.0 100 13 14 25 0.45 80 5.0 140 325 5.2 62.5 570 6.5 88 13 14 32 0.40 90 3.9 140 300 5.6 53.5 550 7.0 79 13 14 38 0.35 120 3.3 140 290 5.8 50.0 520 7.2 72 13 14 44 0.30 160 2.9 140 270 6.6 40.0 490 8.1 60