# Multiple blood bag system made of plastic substantially free of blood extractible plasticizers.

## Abstract
An improved multiple blood bag system is disclosed in which donor as well as transfer bags are made of polymeric substances which are substantially free of blood extractable plasticizers. The polymeric substance for a donor bag can be the same or different from that of a transfer bag. The polymeric substances are selected so that when whole blood or packed red cells are stored in a donor bag of such material for up to 21 days, the degree of hemolysis is such that the amount of surviving red cells is sufficient for clinical requirements. The polymeric substances also are favourable in the functions for which transfer bags are used such as platelet storage, cryoprecipitate collection and the like.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A multiple blood bag system comprising a first bag, a second bag, and a flexible conduit joining the first and second bags for fluid flow communication therebetween, the first and second bags being made of a flexible, translucent, heat sterilizable, heat sealable polymeric substance, characterized in that the polymeric substance is substantially ree of blood extractable plasticizers and exhibits a carbon dioxide transmissibility of at least 3000 ml m2 day. 2. The multiple blood bag system of claim 1 wherein the first and second bags are made of the same polymeric substance. 3. The multiple blood bag system of claim 2 wherein the polymeric substance is a polyvinyl chloride plasticized with tri 2 ethylhexyl trimellitate. 4. The multiple blood bag system of claim 2 wherein the polymeric substance is a polyurethane. 5. The multiple blood bag system of claim 2 wherein the polymeric substance is a polyester. 6. The multiple blood bag system of claim 5 wherein the polyester comprises a polymer of 1,4 cyclohexanedimethanol and 1, 4 cyclohexanedicarboxylic acid. 7. The multiple blood bag system of claim 2 wherein the polymeric substance is a polycarbonate. 8. The multiple blood bag system of claim 1 wherein the polymeric substance of the first bag differs from the polymeric substance of the second bag. 9. The multiple blood bag system of claim 3 wherein the amount of tri 2 ethylhexyl trimellitate is about 30 to about 50 percent by weight. 10. The multiple blood bag system of claim 3 wherein the plasticized polyvinyl chloride formulation includes about 3.5 percent of epoxidized soybean oil and about 0.6 percent of calcium or zinc stearate or combinations thereof.

## Description
Multiple blood bag system maze of plastic substantially free of blood extractible plasticizersField of the Invention This invention relates to an improvement in a multiple bag system for the collection, storage or processing of whole blood into various blood components under sterile conditions.Prior Art Multiple blood bag systems currently available are made of polyvinyl chloride PVC plasticized with di 2 ethylhexyl phthalate DEHP . Whole blood can be 0 stored at about 5 C. for up to 21 days in bags of such a formulation without significantly reducing the quantity of surviving red cells so that the blood can be used within this period of time for transfusion.However, there are some who believe there may be deleterious effects if DEHP, which is known to be extracted into blood, finds its way into the patient receiving blood transfusions or blood components.Consequently, efforts have been made to find other polymeric substances or formulations for blood bags which have the desirable physical properties of PVC plasticized with DEHP but which would be free of DEHP or blood extractable substances.U.S. Patent No. 4,222,379 discloses a multiple blood bag system in which the blood storage bag donor bag is made of conventional PVC formulation containing DEHP plasticizer. This bag is connected to one or more transfer bags made of a polymeric substance having a different polymeric entity from that of the donor bag and contains no blood extractable plasticizers. Thus, using this multiple blood bag system in the processing of blood into its components, red blood cells stored for the usual 21 days in the donor bag, being exposed to DEHP, maintain a sufficiently high level of survival for clinical effectiveness. It was discovered that it was the DEHP extracted or leached from the plastic by the blood which was responsible for inhibiting hemolysis of the red cells and thus allowed them to be stored for 21 days without generating significant amounts of hemoglobin.Thus the high degree of survival appeared to be dependent upon the presence of DEHP. Plasma and other blood components other than red cells such as platelets and cryoprecipitate which are in the transfer bags would not be in contact with DEHP and therefore these components at least would contain essentially no DEHP and patients receiving these products would be exposed to little risk of .DEHP contamination.This patent also discloses that certain polymeric entities used in the transfer bags may have desirable characteristics, such as the capability for an increased diffusion rate of carbon dioxide through the walls of the bag which results in a decrease in the lowering of pH, a condition which favors platelet survival. Another desirable characteristic is good low temperature strength in a transfer bag used for collecting cryoprecipitate.Certain polyethylene formulations and a blend of polyolefin with a block copolymer such as is described inU.S. Patent No. 4,140,162 are indicated in the 4,222,379 patent as having one or both of these two characteristics.Other possible transfer bag materials disclosed are polyesters, polyurethanes, poly ethylene vinyl acetate copolymers, and a PVC plasticized with tri ethylhexyl mellitate. The system described in Patent No. 4,222,379 still has the drawback of contamination of the red cells or whole blood with DEHP. Description of the InventionThe present invention comprises a multiple blood bag system having at least two bags interconnected by a flexible conduit and in which the polymeric substance of the bags is either the same or of different polymeric substances and further the polymeric substances are substantially free of blood extractable plasticizer. In addition to the bags having the properties of being flexible, translucent, steam sterilizable and heat sealable, they exhibit the characteristics of having good carbon dioxide and oxygen transmissibility and are capable of having blood stored therein for up to about 21 days at standard blood storage temperatures and still provide clinically effective levels of unhemolyzed red cells.Polymeric substances useful for the purposes of the invention have a C02 transmissability of at least 3000 ml m2 day, preferably 3000 6000 ml m2 day CO2 transmissability may be determined according to the method disclosed in U.S.Patent 4,280,497 . This means that the pH of the stored platelets is maintained greater than 6.0 and preferably in the range of 6.0 7.0. In previously filed European application SerialNo. 80105930.4, there was disclosed a bag made of polyvinyl chloride PVC plasticized with tri 2 ethylhexyl trimellitate TOTM which greatly improved survival time of blood platelets stored therein.In U.S. Patent 4,222,379 referred to above, a PVC formulation containing tri ethylhexyl mellitate was disclosed in which blood stored in bags of this formulation had the highest degree of hemolysis as compared with blood stored in bags of different polymeric substances. It was suggested that this PVC formulation could be used in a transfer bag and the implication would automatically follow that this formulation would be unacceptable for donor bags for the storage of blood.It was with some surprise, therefore, that when blood was stored for 21 days at 50 C. in a bag made of PVC plasticized with TOTM, it was observed that even though there was a certain amount of hemolysis occurring, the level of unhemolyzed red cells was such that the blood would provide clinically acceptable amounts of viable red cells for transfusion purposes. Thus a multiple blood bag system in which the bags were made only of PVC plasticized with TOTM would be perfectly adequate for storage of blood or red cells as well as for prolonged storage of platelets. The use of this PVC TOTM formulation in a donor bag for storage of blood is distinctly superior toPVC bags plasticized with DEHP with respect to amounts of extractable plasticizer.With the former, only about 0.1 part per million of TOTM was detected while with thePVC DEHP bags, 38.6 11.6 parts per million of DEHP was extracted into the blood. Thus the PVC TOTM formulation can be considered to be substantially free of blood extractable plasticizer. Thermoplastic polyurethane elastomers are also useful in a multiple blood bag system. For example, a polyurethan such as Texin R polyurethane manufactured by Mobay Chemical Corporation has desirable properties which render it suitable both for donor and for transfer bags. This material is much stronger than PVC and therefore bags can be fabricated from much thinner film and allow for very high carbon dioxide and oxygen transmission rates. The material is readily steam sterilizable and is very suitable for processing blood components at cryogenic temperatures. It is free of blood extractable plasticizers such as DEHP. Thermoplastic po lyurethanes are well known in the art and various types of materials are commercially available.Their suitability for the present invention may be easily determined by means of a preliminary test as to their C02 transmissability. Thermoplastic polyesters, hitch meet the aforementioned requirements, such as are disclosed in U.S. PatentNo. 4,045,431, are suitable for both donor and transfer bags in a multiple blood bag system. These contain no blood extractable plasticizers such as DEHP and yet it has been found that, although some hemolysis of red cells occurs when blood is stored in bags of this material for 21 days, there still remain adequate levels of unhemolyzed cells.Thermoplastic polycarbonates free of blood extractable plasticizer, which are blood compatible and which are sterilizable, sealable, flexible and having good gas transmissable properties, do not cause an inordinate amount of hemolysis of red cells when blood is stored for prolonged periods in bags made of this material, and, therefore, are also acceptable as the polymeric substance for a multiple blood bag system. Polycarbonates of this type are also widely available.It is understood that the donor bag may be made of one polymeric substance and one or more interconnecting transfer bags may be made of a different polymeric substance. Thus, for example, the donor bag could be made of a polyester of the type described in U.S. Patent No.4,045,431 and the transfer bag s made of a PVC TOTM plasticized formulation as described in copending EuropeanPatent Application Serial No. 80 105 930,4. A multiple blood bag system in which there are three interconnecting bags could be assembled where each of the bags was made of a different polymeric substance selected from those disclosed above.Referring to the drawings, FIG. 1 is a plan view of a multiple blood bag system in accordance with this invention. Multiple blood bag system 10 has a donor bag 12 connected to transfer bags 14 and 16 by means of flexible tubing 18 and a conventional Y connector 20. Both donor bag 12 and transfer bags 14 and 16 are equipped with hermetically sealed access ports 22 and donor bag 12 further has a blood collection tube 24 to the outer end of which is secured a donor needle assembly 26. Fluid flow through tubing 18 from donor bag 12 is controlled by conventional valving means 28, such as a ribbed spike and membrane valve.Donor bag 12 and transfer bags 14 and 16 are made of polymeric substances which are flexible, translucent e.g.transparent , heat sealable, heat sterilizable and which contain substantially no blood extractable plasticizers.This means that the polymeric substance is either not plasticized or, if a plasticizer is present, that substantially none of the plasticizer is extracted by blood stored in bags thereof over a period of 21 days at about 50 C. Although FIG. 1 shows a three bag system, the invention also is intended to include blood bag systems in which there are either two bags or four bags connected together. A Preferred EmbodimentOne of the preferred polymeric substances for the multiple blood bag system of this invention is polyvinyl chloride plasticized with tri 2 ethylhexyl trimellitate TOTM according to the disclosure of the aforementioned EuropeanPatent Application Serial No. 80105930.4. Preferably this plasticizer is present to the extent of about 30 to about 50 percent in the formulation, with about 37 percent being most preferred. Other ingredients may also be present in this formulation such as minor amounts of epoxidized vegetable oils, e.g., about 3.5 percent of epoxidized soybean oil, and small quantities of metal soaps, e.g.about 0.6 percent of calcium or zinc stearate or mixtures thereof.When blood was stored in 18 donor bags made of this preferred formulation of PVC TOTM for 21 days at 5 C.,TOTM was not detected in eight samples of blood 0.1 ppm and only 0.1 to about 0.15 ppm of TOTM was detected in the other ten samples. By comparison, 38.6 11.6 ppm of DEHP was detected in blood stored in PVC DEHP bags 12 samples .The amount of hemolysis of red cells was determined in vitro on blood stored for 21 days at 5 C. in bags of two commercial formulations of PVC DEHP. The results are as follows Bags of Plasma Hemoglobin, mg. 100mlPVC TOTM 45.0 Aver. of 27 units 1 PVC DEHP Commercial I 19.1 Aver. of 10 units 2 PVC DEHP CommercialII 29.2 Aver. of 10 units 3 1 Private communication 2 Bailey, D.N., et al, Transfusion 15, p. 224 1975 3 Private communicationEven at the highest average of 45 mg. 100 ml. hemoglobin for the PVC TOTM formulation, this is equivalent to about 0.2 percent hemolysis and would be considered to be of no clinical significance. Of greater significance was the surprising results of in vivo red cell survival as determined by the 51Cr method Button, L.N., et al, Transfusion 5, p. 143 1965 on packed cells or whole blood which had been stored for 21 days at 5 C. in bags of the preferred formulation ofPVC TOTM. No. Component Tested Recovery, Half life,days Whole Blood 21 82.6 7.2 30.3 5.7 Packed cells 70 85 Hct 1 20 81.9 9.2 30.2 7.7 Packed cells, 85 Hct 9 82.6 t 12.7 29.2 t 3.8 1 HematocritThese data comfortably meet the requirement accepted by the industry of not less than 70 post transfusion survival. They also compare favorably to values of approximately 82 in 15 studies by Ambrus et al Ann. N.Y. Acad. Sci. 255, p. 435 1975 and of approximately 80 byGibson et al Am. J. Clin. Path. 28, p. 569 1957 on red cell survival of blood stored in commercially available bags of PVC DEHP.The same PVC TOTM formulation is well suited as a material for a transfer bag as well, particularly for platelet storage. As has been disclosed in the aforementioned EuropeanPatent Application Serial No. 80105930.4, viability of platelets can be maintained for considerably longer periods than presently possible when platelets are stored in bags of this PVC TOTM formulation. This is believed to be in part the result of a diminution in the lowering of pH brought about by greater transmittability of carbon dioxide through the walls of the bag made of this formulation. Presently, storage life of platelets stored in PVC DEHP bags is only three days or less. The bags are generally agitated gently at about room temperature and under these conditions about 300 ppm of DEHP is extracted into the platelet plasma concentrate.Under similar conditions, using bags of PVC TOTM instead, only about 20 ppm or less of the TOTM plasticizer is extracted into the concentrate.Transfer bags made of the PVC TOTM formulation are also useful in the processing of cryoprecipitate and are at least the equal to present commercial PVC DEHP formulation bags in this respect. Other Useful EmbodimentsThe use of other polymeric substances which contain no blood extractable plasticizers in the formation of both donor and transfer bags is evident from the following information. 1 Oxygen and carbon dioxide transmissibility through R bags made of a polyurethane Texin 990 AR , a polycarbonate, and a polyester U.S. Patent No.4,045,431 , were all as good as or superior to the transmissibility of the PVC TOTM formulation described above.2 Plasma hemoglobin levels of blood stored for 21 days at 5 C. in bags made of these materials are as follows Bag Material Plasma Hemoglobin,mg. 100ml. Polyurethane Texin R 990 AR 46.0 Aver. of 3 units Polycarbonate 37.0 Aver. of 3 units Polyester 54.0 Aver. of 5 units The above disclosure is intended for illustrative purposes only and is not intended to limit the invention which is defined in the claims which follow.