# Process for preparing substituted macrocyclics.

## Abstract
Substituted macrocyclics are prepared from a macrocy clic substrate having a carbon hydrogen bond adjacent to a hetero ring atom and a substituent forming compound in the presence of a chemical initiator.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1 A process for the preparation of substituted macrocyclic compounds which comprises the reaction of a macrocyclic compound having a carbon hydrogen bond adjacent to a he tero ring atom, and a substituent forming compound having at least 2 carbon atoms in the presence of a chemical initiator. 2 The process of claim 1 wherein the substituent forming compound is an olefin, preferably an olefin which con tains about 8 to about 30, preferably 8 to 20, carbon atoms. 3 The process of claim 1 or 2 wherein the macrocyclic com pound is a Crown ether or a cryptand. 4 The process of claim 1 or 3 wherein the substituent for ming compound is a saturated or an unsaturated compound. 5 The process according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the mole ratio of macrocyclic compound to sub stituent forming compound is from about 1 100 to about 100 1, preferably from about 1 20 to about 20 1. 6 The process according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the chemical initiator is an organic peroxide, preferably di t butyl peroxide. 7 The process according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the Crown ether is 15 Crown 5 or 18 Crown 6. 8 The process according to any one of the preceding claims where in a catalytic amount of chemical initiator is em ployed, preferably in an amount from about 0.01 to about 30 mole percent. 9 The process according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the process is carried out at a temperature of from about OOC to about 4000C. 10 The process for the preparation of an alkyl substituted Crown ether, preferably 15 Crown 5, by the reaction of said Crown ether and anct olefin having at least 3 car bon atoms, characterized that the process is carried out in the presence of a catalytic amount of chemical ini tiator. 11 Process according to claim 11 where saidd olefin con tains from about 10 to about 30 carbon atoms.

## Description
PROCESS FOR PREPARING SUBSTITUTED MACROCYCLICS This invention relates to a process for the preparation of substituted macrocyclic compounds using substituent forming compounds and a chemical initiator. The use of macrocyclic compounds, e.g., crown ethers and cryptands, as complexing agents is well known. See Synthetic Multidentate MacrocyclicCompounds , edited by Reed M. Izatt and James J.Christensen, Academic Press, New York, 1978 andProgress in Macrocyclic Chemistry, Volume 1, edited by Reed M. Izatt and James J. Christensen, John Wiley and Sons, New York, 1979 . The interest in the novel chemical nature and utility of these macrocyclic compounds has led to increased interest in the chemistry and synthesis of substituted macrocyclics. In fact, several reports in the prior art suggest that substituted macrocyclic compounds may be very valuable. See SyntheticMultidentate Macrocyclic Compounds , edited by ReedM. Izatt and James J. Christensen, Academic Press,New York, 1978 Progress in Macrocyclic Chemistry,Volume edited by Reed M. Izatt and James J. Christensen, John Wiley and Sons, New York, 1979,J. S. Bradshaw and P. E. Stott, Tetrahedron, 36, 461 1980 . The free radical additions of both aliphatic and cyclic ethers to a variety of unsaturated substrates have been reported. See M. D. Peterson and A. G.Weber, Ethylene Acetal Reaction Product, U. S.Patent 2,395,292 1946 Terminally Substituted Poly merization Products of Ethylene, Brit. Patent 583,181 1946 Chem. Abstr. 41, 2937 g 1947 1 W. E. Hanford and J. R. Roland, High Molecular Weight Products ofEthylene, U. S. Patent 2,402,137 1946 W. E. Hanford, Organic Fluoroethers and Their Preparation, U. S.Patent 2,433,844 1948 T. M. Patrick, Jr., Dimethoxymethyl succinic Anhydride and Telomeric Products, U. S. Patent 2,628,238 1953 Chem. Abstr., 48, 711e 1954 T. M. Patrick, Jr., Cyclic Acetal Telomers, U. S. Patent 2,684,373 1954 Chem. Abstr., 49, 7602i 1955 , T. M. Patrick, Jr., Acetal Telomers, U. S. Patent 2,716,660 1955 Chem. Abstr., 49, 16523h 1955 R. I. Longley, Jr., and T. M. Patrick, Jr., Process for Producing o Alkoxybenzylsuccinic Anhydrides and Nuclearly Substituted Benzyl Derivatives Thereof, U. S. Patent 2,841,592 1958 C. H. McDonnell, FreeRadical Reactions of Ethers, Ph.D. Thesis, University of Chicago, 1955 C. F. Feasley, W. E. Garwood, A. N.Sachanen, and F. M. Seger, Synthetic Lubricants, U. S. Patent 2,743,281 1956 Chem. Abstr., 50, 11012e 1956 G. O. Schenck and H. Formanek, On the RadiationChemistry of Azodicarboxylic Esters, Angew. Chem., 70, 505 1958 I. 1. Shuikin and B. L. Lebedev, Alkylation of Tetrahydrofuran by Ethylene, Dokl.Aicad. Nauk SSSR, 139, 131 1961 N. I. Shiukin and B. L. Lebedev, Thermal Alkylation of Tetrahydro 2 methylfuran with Ethylene, Izv. Akad. Nauk SSSR, 2195 1961 ,N. I. Shiukin and B. L. Lebedev, Alkylation of Tetrahydrofuran by Ethylene in the Presence of Di tertbutyl Peroxide, Izv. Akad. Nauk SSSR, 533 1962 N. I. Shuikin and B. L. Lebedev, On the Alkylation of Cyclic Ethers, Z. Chem., 6, 459 1966 , N. I.Shuikin and B. L. Lebedev, Alkylation of Tetrahydrofuran with Alkenes and Unsaturated Ethers, Izv, Akad.Nauk SSSR, 639 1967 N. I. Shuikin, B. L. Lebedev, andI. P. Yakovlev, Alkylation of Tetrahydropyran, IzvAkad Nauk SSSR, 644 1967 T. J. Wallace and R. J.Gritter, The Free Radical Chemistry of Cyclic Ethers,III. A Free Radical Rearrangement Reaction, J. Org.Chem., 27, 3067 1962 T. J. Wallace, R. J. Gritter, and H. G. Walsh, Free Radical Chemistry of CyclicEthers p Dioxane and Morpholine, Nature, 198, 284 1963 J.Diekmann and C. J. Pedersen, Photaddition of Tetrahydrofuran to 7 , 7,8, 8 Tetracyanoquinodimethane and Tetracyanoethylene, J. Org. Chem., 28, 2879 1963 R. L. Jacobs and G. G. Ecke, Free Radical Addition of Cyclic Ethers to Maleic Anhydride, ibid., p. 3036 T. Matsuda, K. Yumoto, and K. Iseda, Abstr., Symp. onIsotopes of the 4th Meeting, Tokyo, 1963 cited in H.Muramatsu, K. Inukai, and T. Ueda, J. Org. Chem., 29, 2220 1964 . A study of the radiation induced addition of cyclic ethers to tetrachloroethylene , T. Matsuda and T. Yumoto, Chlorine Containing Cyclic Ethers, Japan Patent 4708 1966 Chem. Abstr., 65, 726b 1966 T. Yumoto and T. Matsuda, Synthesis of Oxygen Containing Halogenated Compounds. III. t Ray InducedAddition Reaction of Cyclic Ethers to Tetrachloroethylene, Nippon Kagaku Kaishi, 556 1973 Chem.Abstr., 79, 4592y 1973 T. Yumoto, Synthesis ofOxygen Containing Halogenated Compounds. IV. RadicalInduced Substitution Reaction between Aliphatic Ethers and Tetrachloroethylene, ibid., p. 1724 Chem. Abstr., 79, 125740d 1973 D. Elad and R. D. Youssefzeh, The Photoaddition of Cyclic Ethers to l Octene, J. Org. Chem., 29, 2031 1964 I. Rosenthal and D.Elad, The Photoalkylation of Cyclic Ethers, Tetrahedron, 23, 3193 1967 H. Muramatsu, K.Inukai, and T. Ueda, The Radiation Induced AdditionReaction of Ethers to Chlorofluoroolefins, J. Org.Chem., 29, 2220 1964 H. Muramatsu, S. Moriguchi, and K. Inukai. The Addition Reactions ofAldehydes, Alcohols, and Ethers to Perfluorocyclobutene, J. Org. Chem., 31, 1306 1966 H. Muramatsu and K. Inukai, The Radiation Induced Addition Reaction of Ethers to 1,2 Dichlorotetrafluorocyclobutene and 1,2 Dichlorohexafluorocyclopentene. ibid., 30, 544 1965 H. Muramatsu, K. Inukai, and T. Ueda, The Radiationinduced Addition Reactions of Ethers and Alcohols to Perfluoropropene, Bull. Chem. Soc. Japan, 40, 903 1967 R. Askani, On the Reaction of 1,3Cyclohexadiene with Diethyl Azodicarboxylate, Chem.Ber., 98, 2551 1965 R. C. Cookson, I. D. R. Stevens, and C. T. Watts, Photochemical Reaction of DiethylAzodicarboxylate with Ethers and Alcohols, Chem.Comm., 259 1965 R. Srinivasan and K. H. Carlough, Light induced Addition of Acetylene to SaturatedCompounds, Can. J. Chem., 45, 3209 1967 V.Dedek and J. Fikar, Chemistry of Organic Fluorine Compounds.V. Addition of Diethyl Ether and Tetrahydrofuran toTrifluorochloroethylene, Coll. Czech. Chem. Cormnuns., 34, 3769 1969 P. Singh, Photoaddition of DimethylAcetylenedicarboxylate to Cyclic Ethers, Tet. Lett., 2155 1970 P. Singh, Photoaddition Reactions. II. Photoaddition of Dimethyl Acetylenedicarboxylate toCyclic Ethers, J. Org. Chem., 37, 836 1972 H.Hasegawa, M. Tokuriki, and T. Satake, Photoreactions of Acetylenecarboxylic Esters with Ethers, NipponKagaku Kaishi, 748 1972 Chem. Abstr., 77, 18926f 1972 G. Ahlgren, Reactions of Lone Pair Electron Donors withUnsaturated Electrophiles. I. The Addition of Tetrahydrofuran and Oxetane to Dimethyl Acetylenedicarboxylate, J. Org. Chem., 38, 1369 1973 E. Montaudon and R. Lalande, Radical Additions. XII Addition of OxygenatedHeterocycles to Free Acetylenes, Bull. Soc. Chim.France, 2635 1974 E. Montaudon, J. Thpnier, andR. Lalande, Radical Additions of Oxygenated Heterocycles to 1,2 Hexadiene, Compt. rend., 280C, 1223 1975 E. Montaudon, J. T .ier, and R. Lalande, Determination of the Structure of a Dehydrodimer Produced byFree Radical Addition of Tetrahydrofuran toPropadiene, Compt. rend., 284C, 581 1977 E. Montaudon, J. Thepénier, and R. Lalande, RadicalAdditions XV. Addition of Tetrahydrofuran toPropadiene, Tetrahedron, 34, 897 1978 E. Montaudon, J. Thépénier, and R. Lalande, Radical Additions.16. Additions of Oxygenated Heterocycles to Allenes, J. Heterocyclic Chem., 16, 105 1979 T. N. Abroskina,A. D. Sorokin, R. V. Kudryavtsev, and Yu. A. Cheburkov, Alkylation of Tetrahydrofuran with Fluoroolefins, Izv. Akad. NaukSSSR,l74l l974 L. Schmerling, Free Radical Induded Monoethylation with Ethylene, A.C.S. Symp. Ser. No. 55, 147 1977 D. L. Rakhmankulov,S. S. Zlotskii, N. E. Maksimova, V. N. Uzikova, S. N.Zlotskii, E.Kh. Kravets, and 0. G. Safiev, USSRPatent 568,649 1977 Chem. Abstr., 87, 152987m 1977 1 Yu. N. Ogibin, M. N. Elinson, G. I. Nikishin, V. I.Kadentsev, and 0. S. Chizhot, Homolytic Reactions of Dibutyl Ether with Dialkylmaleates, Izv. Akad. NaukSSSR, 1850 1978 . That the methods of the aforementioned reports on the alkylatiqn of ethers were not considered suitable for the alkylation of macrocyclic compounds is evident from the efforts expended in search of a synthetic route to these valuable products. The synthesis of long chain alkyl substituted crown ethers has been reviewed C. J. Pedersen, in Synthetic Multidentate MacrocyclicCompounds, ed. R. M. Izatt and J. J. Christensen,Academic Press, 1978, p. 33 There are three general methods of preparing substituted crown compounds 1 using intermediates carrying the sub stituents 2 running substitution reactions on the polyethers and 3 converting the substituents on the polyethers into others. In the first case, the substituents must withstand the reaction conditions for the synthesis of the crown compounds and not interfere with the reaction. Hydroxyl and hydrocarbon groups are permissible on aliphatic intermediates and unreactive nonfunctional groups on the aromatic rings. Functional groups, such as carboxyl and extra phenolic hydroxyl groups, must not be present unless they can be protected. The second method is more applicable to aromatic polyethers than the others because the former will undergo substitution reactions characteristic for aromatic ethers, such as veratrole, provided the conditions do not lead to the scission of the ether linkage Pedersen, 1967b . They have been halogenated Shchori andJagur Grodzinski, 1972b , nitrated, Feigenbaum and Michel, 1971 , and sulfonated Unpublished results . By the third method, carboxyl group has been obtained from methyl, and amino from nitro Feigenbaum and Michel, 1971 . If the sub stituents do not poison the catalyst and are not removed, substituted aromatic crown compounds can be transformed into the corresponding saturated compounds by catalytic hydrogenation. Some substituents will be reduced simultaneously, such as nitro to amino group. Note that the second method is not stated to apply to the synthesis of long chain alkyl substituted crown ethers. Such synthesis has generally been carried out by employing a multistep synthesis. For the use and synthesis of such compounds, see J. Cooper and P. H. Plesch, A New Method of Making New CrownEthers, Chem. Comm., 1017 1974 M. Cinquini, F. Montanari, and P. Tundo, Alkyl Substituted AzaMacrobicyclic Polyethers Highly Efficient Catalysts in Two phase Reactions, Chem. Comm., 393 1975 M.Cinquini, S. Colonna, H. Molinari, F. Montanari, and P. Tundo, Heterogeneous Phase TransferCatalysts Onium Salts, Crown Ethers, and CryptandsImmobilized on Polymer Supports, ibid., 394 1976 M. Cinquini and P. Tundo, Synthesis, 516 1976 M.Cinquini, F. Montanari, and P. Tundo, PhaseTransfer Catalysts Synthesis and Catalytic Activity ofAlkyl Substituted Azamacrobicyclic Polyethers, Gazz. Chin. Ital., 107, 11 1977 H. Molinari, F.Montanari, and P. Tundo, Heterogeneous Phase TransferCatalysts High Efficiency of Catalysts Bonded by aLong Chain to a Polymer Matrix, Chem. Comm., 639 1977 D. Landini, A. Maia, F. Montanari, and P. Tundo, Lipophilic 2.2.2 Cryptands as Phase Transfer Catalysts.Activation and Nucleophilicity of Anions in AqueousOrganic Two Phase Systems and in Organic Solvents of Low Polarity, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 101, 2526 1979 F. Montanari and P. Tundo, Hydroxymethyl 18 Crown 6 and Hydroxymethyl 2.2.2 Cryptand Versatile Derivatives for Binding the Two Polyethers to Lipophilic Chains and to Polymer Matrices, Tet. Lett., 5055 1979 R. Humphrey Baker, M. Gratzel, P. Tundo, and E.Pelizzetti, Complexes of Nitrogen Containing CrownEther Surfactants with Stable Silver Atoms, Angew.Chem. Int. Edit., 18, 630 1979 K. Monserrat, M. Grätzel, and P. Tundo, LightInduced Charge Injection in Functional CrownEther Vesicles, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 102, 5527 1980 Y. Moroi, E. Pramauro, M. Grátzel, E. Pelizzetti, andP. Tundo, Surface Activity and Micelle Formation of Alkyl Substituted Aza Crown Ethers and Their MetalIon Complexes, J. Colloid Interface Sci., 69, 341 1979 D. Clement, F. Damm, and J. M. Lehn, LipophilicCryptates Salt Solubilization and Anion Activation, Heterocycles, 5, 477 1976 M. Okahara, M. Miki, S.Yanagida, I. Ikeda, and K. Matsushima, Synthesis of Polyethylene Glycol ss Haloalkyl Ethers. A NewSynthetic Route to Alkyl Substituted Crown Ethers, Synthesis, 854 1977 M. Tomoi, O. Abe, M. Ikeda, K. Kihara, and H. Kakiuchi, Syntheses of Hydroxy GroupContaining Crown Ethers and Polymer Supported CrownEthers, Tet. Lett., 3031 1978 M. Okahara, I.Ikeda, and S. Yanagida, Production Method for CrownEthers, Japanese Patent Publication 98985 1978 T. Mizuno, Y. Nakatsuji, S. Yanagida, and M. Okahara, The Synthesis and Cation Complexing Ability of AlkylCrown Ethers, Bull. Chem. Soc. Japan, 53, 481 1980 M. Okahara, P. L. Kuo, S. Yamamura, andI.Ikeda, Effect of Metal Salts on the Cloud Point of Alkyl CrownCompounds, Chem. Comm., 586 1980 W. H. Rastetter and D. P. Phillion, A Crown Ether, Template Driven,Macrolide Closure, Tet. Lett., 1469 1979 W. H.Rastetter and D. P. Phillion, Transition StateStabilized Macrolide Closure, J. Org. Chem., 45 1535 1980 T. Kuwamura and T. Kawachi, SurfaceActive Crown Ethers. Part 1. Macrocyclic Polyethers of the Acetal Type with Long Alkyl Chains, Yukagaku, 28, 195 1979 J. Le Moigne and J. Simon, A New Type of Surfactant. The Annelides. Characterization of Organized Metal Ion Assemblies Obtained by CationicComplexation at the Micelle Subsurface, 7 J Phys. Chem., 84, 170 1980 P. E. Stott, J. S. Bradshaw, and W. W.Parish, Modified Crown Ether Catalysts. 3. StructuralParameters Affecting Phase Transfer Catalysis by CrownEthers and a Comparison of the Effectiveness of CrownEthers to that of Other Phase Transfer Catalysts, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 102, 4810 1980 S. T. Jolley andJ. S. Bradshaw, Synthesis of Diethyl, Di n Qctyl, anc Mono and Dicyclohexano Macro cyclic Polyether DiesterLigands, J. Org. Chem., 45, 3554 1980 R. Perraud,H. Handel, and J. L. Pierre, Effects of Cryptands and Activation of Bases. VI. Reactions of Organolithiums, Bull. Soc. Chim. France, 283 1980 . The above synthetic methods are of the second type and require the use of special substrates having reactive moieties or bulky substituents which must be carried through multiple synthetic steps and which may lead to the unwanted presence of the special substrate in the final product. Further, these processes may require the use of special and often times expensive stoichiometric reagents which, although not incorporated into the product, may limit the various alternatives available in the choice of the final product, i.e. substituted macrocyclic. The aforementioned synthetic methods are to be distinguished from a method which employs the macroyclic compounds as the substrate in a single step synthesis to produce substituted macrocyclic compounds. Such a synthetic method may be achieved by employing a radical producing reagent in a reaction mixture with a macrocyclic compound. The photochemical reactions of 18 crown 6 and acetophenone disclosed in Photochemistry of Host GuestComplex I, Photochemical Reaction of Alkyl aryl ketones with 18 Crown 6 , Tada, M. and Hirano, H.,Tetrahedron Letters, 51, 5111 5114 1978 , wherein photons are employed 450 W high pressure Hg lamp is such a method for producing substituted macrocylics which probably involves the use of non catalytic amounts of photons to carry out the synthesis. The use of the chemical initiator di tert butyl peroxide in the reaction of 12 Crown 4, 15Crown 5 and 18 Crown 6 with ot tert butyl thio acrylonitrile is disclosed by S. Mignani and H. G.Viehe, unpublished results reported in H. G. Viehe,R. Merenyi, L. Stella, and Z. Janousek, Captodative Substituent Effects in Syntheses withRadicals and Radicophiles , Viehe, H. G., et al.,Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 18, 917 932, Dec. 21, 1979 , wherein the reaction of radicals with radicophilic olefins is diclosed. According tQ the invention, it has now been found that substituted macro cyclic compounds can be prepared directly from multidentate macrocyclic compounds by free radical addition of substituent forming compounds saturated or unsaturated in the presence of a chemical initiator. Suitable macrocyclics include all those disclosed in the above references having a carbon hydrogen bond of a ring carbon adjacent to a hetero atom,ti.e.EMI12.1 where X is the hetero atom. Typical macrocyclics include crown ethers, cryptands, and the like.Typical unsaturated compounds include olefins, carbynes, nitrenes, silylenes and the like. Typical saturated compounds include halogen, halogen containing compounds, another crown ether or other ether, and the like, which are capable of forming radicals in the reaction system in the presence of a chemical initiator. Suitable chemical initiators include those initiators which J will abstract a hydrogen atom from the macrocyclic.Typical chemical initiators useful in the process are peroxides, peracids, peresters, peranhydrides, persulfates, various azo compounds and various triplet state molecules. The multidentate macrocyclics which may now be considered as substrates for reactions with substituent forming compounds saturated or un preferably oxygen, nitrogen or sulfur, specially oxygen saturated include high molecular weight cyclics such as Crown ethers, high molecular weight aza macrobicyclic polyethers cryptands , polyethers containing sulfur thia Crown compounds , and the like, wherein exists at least one carbon hydrogen bond of a ring carbon adjacent to a hetero atom as a reaction site for further chemical elaboration. In contrast to the use of these macrocyclics as catalysts or inert complexing agents, it has been found that these macrocylics are particularly useful as substrates for reaction with saturated and unsaturated compounds in the presence of a chemical initiator. The substituted macrocyclics produced thereby may be employed in many areas including surfactant mixtures, catalysts, solvents and the like. With respect to the selection of macrocyclic compounds embodied within the above descriptions, the most preferred are those characterized as Crown ethers, most preferably those containing at least four 4 hetero oxygen atoms in the ring portion. For an ample description of Crown ethers, their structures and nomenclature, reference is made to the aforementioned text, Synthetic MultidentateMacrocyclic Compounds , edited by Reed M. Izatt andJames J. Christensen. The Crown ethers described therein may be employed in this invention to the extent that they meet the structural limitations recited herein for the macro cyclic compounds of this invention. A secondary preferred class of substrates is cyclic compounds termed cryptands aza macrobicyclic polyethers , as described in the aforementioned text, Synthetic Multidentate MacrocylicCompounds , edited by Reed M. Izatt and James J.Christensen and to the extent those described meet the structural limitations recited herein for the macrocylic employed in this invention. The substituent forming compound employed in the invention can be either an unsaturated or saturated compound. The use of the term unsaturated herein refers to compounds which are coordinatively unsaturated in that they have unfilled valence positions whereas saturated refers to compounds that have filled valence positions. The unsaturated or saturated compounds employed herein are Substituentforming compounds as that term is employed herein and are characterized by their ability to form radicals in the reaction system in the presence of a chemical initiator. The term alkyl as used herein refers to straight chain and branched alkyl groups, including substituted alkyl groups, having at least 2 carbon atoms, the preferred alkyl groups having from about 8 to about 30 carbon atoms with the most preferred containing from about 8 to about 20 carbon atoms. Unsaturated compounds which may be added to the aforementioned macrocyclics according to the invention include, but are not limited to, olefins, substituted olefins, allenes, conjugated dienes, unconjugated dienes, acetylenes, carbon monoxide, carbonyl containing compounds, carbenes, carbynes, nitrenes, silylenes and the like. The preferred unsaturated compounds are 4 olefins having from 8 to 30 carbon atoms and most preferably from 8 to 20 carbon atoms, e.g. l decene. The aforementioned unsaturated compounds may also contain one or more moieties, e.g., halide, sulfate and the like, other than the moiety giving rise to the unsaturation or ability to form a radical in the reaction system. Saturated compounds which may be added to the aforementioned macrocyclics include those compounds capable of forming radicals in the reaction system and include halogens, halogen acids, halogen containing compounds e.g., CC14, CHC13, CH3CC13, N bromosuccinimide , Crown ethers, ethers, primary and secondary alcohols, certain metal complexes e.g., Mn2 CO 10 , and the like. The ability to form radicals under reaction conditions and in the presence of a chemical initiator is common to the above noted substituentforming compounds and any compound that may form a radical under the reaction conditions may be employed. Chemical initiators which may be used in the invention are those initiators which will abstract a hydrogen from the carbon hydrogen bond of a ring carbon adjacent to a hetero atom including, but not limited to, peroxides, peracids, peresters, peranhydrides, certain azo compounds and various triplet state molecules, e.g., 02. Preferred chemical initiators include organic peroxides such as lauroyl peroxide, acetyl peroxide, peracetic acid, t butyl hydroperoxide, cumene hydroperoxide, azo bis isobutyro nitrile,benzoyl peroxide, tert butyl peroxyacetate, methyl ethyl ketone peroxide, di tert butyl peroxide, and the like as well as other commercially available chemical initiators. In addition, many of the inorganic persalts can be used, e.g. perborates, percarbonates and persulfates. The relative ratio of the macro cyclic to substituent forming compound in the reactionmixture may range from about 1 300 to about 300 1 preferably from about 1 100 to about 100 1 and most preferably from about 1 20 to about 20 1. The amount of chemical initiator employed in the reaction mixture depends in part on the substituent forming compound selected, The concentrations of the chemical initiator will generally be present in an amount from about 0.001 to about 100 mole percent, based on moles of the substituent forming compound, preferably from about 0.1 to about 30 mole percent and most preferably from about 0.1 to lO mole percent.Depending on the substituent forming compound selected a catalytic or non catalytic amount of chemical initiator will be employed. The process of this invention may be carried out without a solvent since the macro cyclic compounds employed herein will function as the solvent. If desired, a solvent may be employed to carry out the process. Typical solvents deemed suitable include t butanol, benzene, water and the like. The time required for carrying out the process is a function of the selected macrocyclic, substituent forming compound and selected reaction conditions. The time may vary from a few seconds to many hours depending in part on the decomposition rate of the chemical initiator. For a continuous process a reaction time of from a few seconds to about an hour is preferred. The process should be carried out under conditions chosen to prevent the chemical initiator from decomposing too rapidly and thus limiting unwanted side reactions. The temperature is generally selected to be about OOC to about 400 C with from about 50 C to about 300 C being preferred and from about 50 C to about 200 C being most preferred. The process of this invention is advantageously conducted in a closed system wherein loss of the macrocyclic and or substituent forming compound by evaporation is minimized or avoided in addition to which air and moisture are excluded. As a convenience, the pressure at which the reaction is conducted may be the pressure created by the system, i.e., autogeneous pressure. If desired, however, higher or lower pressure may be employed depending in part on the substituent forming compound selected. It is to be emphasized that in any reaction system the ratio of macrocyclic to substituent forming compound, temperature and pressure selected, the selection and concentration of chemical initiator each play a role in determining the conditions under which the process is carried out. Various methods of practicing the invention are illustrated by the following examples. These examples are intended to illustrate that the invention can be practiced. EXAMPLE 1 The reaction of macrocyclic and radical forming compounds was demonstrated by placing 0.54 mole of 15 Crown 5 and 0.11 mole of l decene into a 200 ml. round bottomed flask and introducing nitrogen therein. The flask was attached to a distillation head, immersed in an oil bath and heated with stirring magnetic stirrer to about 146 C. A chemical initiator, di t butyl peroxide, in the amount of 0.01 mole, was added to the reaction mixture by syringe through a septum. slight exotherm was observed after which the reaction mixture was maintained at about 146 C for about 4.5 hours. The flask containing the reaction mixture was cooled and the contents were vacuum distilled.Two fractions were collected at 950C 0.20 mm and 980C 0.15 mm Hg and the combined fractions contained 95.86 grams.A third fraction was collected using a diffusion pump containing 2.42 grams to provide a total of 98.28 grams. The stoichiometric excess of 15 Crown 5 is readily accounted for and may be re used without working to remove the initiator derived tbutanol and acetone. The distillation residues were tested by use of proton nuclear magnetic resonance showing only carbon bonded protons beta to ether oxygen and aliphatic carbon, no olefinic, aldehydic, hydroxyl, acid, or methoxy protons and by infra red spectroscopy showing no hydroxyl or carbonyl , and by chemical ionization mass spectroscopy showing a major peak at 361 molecular weight of 15 crown 5 l decene 1 . The above results are consistent with the presence of n decyl 15 crown 5. EXAMPLE 2 The procedure of Example 1 was repeated except that a 250 ml round bottom flask was employed, the reaction mixture was heated to about 1230C, and after addition of the di t butyl peroxide, the reaction mixture was maintained at about 1230C for about. .60 hours. Two fractions were obtained from the reaction mixture by vacuum distillation up to 1180C 0.25 mm Hg , containing a total of 99.95 grams. The residue was transferred to another flask and distilled further by use of a diffusion pump. Two additional fractions containing 2.29 grams and 0.18 grams were obtained. Analysis of the residue, as described inExample 1, gave results consistent with the presence of n decyl 15 crown 5. EXAMPLE 3 The reaction of 18 Crown 6 0.50 mole and l tetradecene 0.10 mole was demonstrated by repeating the procedure of Example 1 except that the flask was heated to about 123 C. Di t butyl peroxide 0.01 mole was added to the reaction mixture by syringe through a septum. A slight exotherm was observed, after which the reaction mixture was maintained at a temperature of about 123 C for about 43 hours. The flask containing the reaction mixture was cooled and vacuum distilled by use of a diffusion pump. Two fractions were collected at 129 C 0.02 mm Hg and at 1040C 0.005 mmHg of 114.96 grams and 3.85 grams, respectively, containing predominantly 18 crown 6. The distillation residue was analyzed and showed only carbon bonded protons beta to ether oxygen and aliphatic carbon when analyzed by proton n.m.r. spectroscopy, only carbon alpha to aliphatic carbon and ether oxygen when analyzed by 13C n.m.r.spectroscopy, and no hydroxyl or carbonyl absorptions when analyzed by infrared spectroscopy. Analysis by chemical ionization mass spectroscopy showed peaks at 461 and 657 consistent with the presence of both 1 1 and 1 2 addicts of 18 crown 6 olefin, i.e., consistent with the production of n tetradecyl 18 crown 6 and 18 crown 6 with higher aliphatic content.