# DEVICE FOR FORMING AN IMAGE BY MEANS OF ULTRASONIC BEAMS

## Claims
Patentansprüche für die benannten Staaten FR, GB

## Description
The invention relates to a device for forming an image of an object by means of ultrasonic beams, comprising an array of N electroacoustic transducers, each of which is arranged to generate an electrical signal when it receives an acoustic signal, means for connecting a selected group of M transducers M N to a delay unit which is arranged to delay the electrical signal generated by each transducer of the group by a predetermined period of time and to sum the delayed signals in order to form a resultant signal which is an electrical representation of the acoustic signals originating from a selected distance or from a selected direction. A device of this kind is described, for example, in EP A 0 015 130. Each transducer of the device described there has associated with it one or two delay lines, the outputs of which are connected to a summing amplifier. By a suitable choice of the delays introduced by the various delay lines it can be achieved that the electrical signals which arrive at the summing amplifier with the same phase correspond to acoustic signals from a predetermined distance focusing or from a predetermined direction beam steering . It is alternatively possible to carry out both focusing and beam steering. If it is desired to change the focal distance and or the beam direction during the formation of an image, as is usually the case, the delays of the delay lines must be changed. To achieve this, a complete series of delay lines can be provided for each focal distance and for each beam direction, together with a switching unit which switches on in succession the various series, or use can be made of delay lines having an adjustable delay. In the latter case a control unit must be provided for each delay unit. DE A 2 736 310 discloses a device in which the delay unit comprises a plurality of fixed delay lines connected in series by means of summing amplifiers, a second input of each summing amplifier being connectable to a tap of a tapped delay line, the input of each tapped delay line being connected to a transducer. The connections are effected by means of a complicated control mechanism comprising a large number of switches and two control units. The delay unit comprises a relatively large number of delay lines. All of the solutions described above are complex and expensive and it is an object of the invention to provide a device of the kind set forth in which the delay unit is comparatively simple and inexpensive and in which it is very easy to change over to other delays. To this end, the device in accordance with the invention is characterized in that more than one delay unit each of which with different delay properties is provided, there also being provided a switching unit which is arranged to switch on the various delay units in succession, each delay unit being formed by a tapped delay line each of the taps of which serves as input for the signal originating from at least one of the selected transducers and whose output is connected to a signal processing device for the further processing of the resultant signal. In this case only one tapped delay line is required for each focal distance or for each beam direction this represents a substantial simplification and saving. A preferred embodiment of the device in accordance with the invention is characterized in that the delay units are followed by fixed delay lines whose delays are chosen so that the overall delay of signals passing through a delay unit and the associated fixed delay line is always the same. In order to minimize the loading on the taps of the delay line, a further embodiment of the device in accordance with the invention is characterized in that the taps of each of the tapped delay lines are connected to the associated transducers via current source circuits, each of the current source circuits comprising a transistor with a resistor in its emitter lead, the values of these resistors being chosen so that the signals originating from the various transducers are amplified or attenuated in a predetermined manner with respect to each other. The invention will be described in detail hereinafter with reference to the accompanying diagrammatic drawing. Therein The device which is diagrammatically shown in Figure 1 comprises an array 1 with a row of N electroacoustic transducers T₁, T₂,.. T The cooperation between the switching member 3, the transmitter 5, the receiver 7 and the display device 13 which is necessary for the formation of an image, is controlled by a main control circuit 15. The general construction of the various parts of the device shown in Figure 1 is known The receiver 7 comprises at least one delay unit 17 which is arranged to delay the electronic signal generated by each of the M transducers of the group by a predetermined period of time and to sum the delayed signals. Thus, a resultant signal is formed which is an electrical representation of acoustic signals received by the transducers. As has already been explained in, for example, said EP A 0 015 130, a suitable choice of the delay for each electric signal enables the distance and or the direction to be selected from which the echos represented by the resultant signal originate. Figure 2 shows diagrammatically an embodiment of a delay unit in accordance with the invention. The unit comprises a delay line 19 with taps 21 which serve as inputs for the signals originating from the various transducers. Inside the receiver 7, the output 23 of the delay line is connected to a signal processing device 25 Figure 1 for the further processing of the resultant signal. The signal processing device may comprise, for example, an amplifier or a memory circuit. Between the inputs 27 of the delay unit which are connected to the bundle of leads 11, and the taps 21 there are connected current source circuits, each of which is formed by a transistor 29 with a resistor 31 in the emitter lead. The current source circuits offer the advantage that the loading of the taps of the delay line is substantially less than if the transducers were connected directly to these taps. A further advantage consists in that the signals originating from the various transducers can be selectively amplified or attenuated with respect to each other by a suitable choice of the values of the resistors 31, so that undesirable sidelobes are suppressed apodisation . The delay line 19 of the described embodiment is an electromagnetic delay line which is terminated at its beginning and its end by means of resistors 33. However, other tapped delay lines can alternatively be used. The delay of a signal is greater as the tap to which the relevant signal is applied, is situated further from the output 23. The distribution of the M transducers among the taps thus depends on the result to be achieved by means of the delay unit. This will be illustrated with reference to the Figures 3 and 4. Figure 3 shows diagrammatically a part of the array 1, a group of 10 transducers T Figure 4 shows diagrammatically a part of the array 1 with 10 selected transducers T It will be apparent from the foregoing that for each focal distance F a separate delay unit 17 will be required. For a given number of different beam directions α, however, a smaller number of delay units will suffice. This is because one and the same delay unit can be used for two beams, the directions 35 of which are inclined at the same angle with respect to the normal 39, but such that the first beam would approach the array 1 from below and the right Figure 4 whilst the other beam would approach from below and from the left. It will suffice that the delay unit be connected inversely to the transducers in the second case, so that in the example of Figure 4 T In order to enable images to be formed quickly and easily with different focal distances and different beam directions, the receiver 7 Figure 1 comprises a, preferably electronic, switching unit 41 which is arranged to switch on the different delay units in succession. This will be described in detail with reference to Figure 5. This Figure shows a receiver 7 which comprises three delay units 17 1 , 17 2 and 17 3 which are arranged to select echo signals with different focal distances F₁, F₂ and F₃, respectively. These delay units are followed by fixed delay lines 43 1 , 43 2 and 43 3 , respectively. The delays thereof are chosen so that the overall delay for signals passing through a delay unit 17 and the associated fixed delay line 43, is always the same. The switching unit 41 selects one of the fixed delay lines 43 for connection to the signal processing device 25. In order to avoid annoying interference in the image due to switching, the switching unit 41 is arranged so that switchover takes place comparatively slowly, so that only low frequency interference is introduced. The signal processing device 25 preferably comprises a suitable filter for suppressing such low frequency interference. The receiver 7 of the embodiment shown in Figure 5 comprises three delay inits 17 which are suitable for focusing. Obviously, it is alternatively possible to use a different number of such units and or a desirable number of delay units adapted for beam steering. As in the embodiments described with reference to the Figures 3 and 4, the array 1 may comprise a number of transducers in a straight line, but other geometries are alternatively possible, for example, a number of transducers in a curved line or a disc like array with transcuders in the form of concentric rings. The transmitter 5 Figure 1 also comprise one or more tapped delay lines 19 in accordance with Figure 2 for the selective delay of the transmission pulses applied to the transcuders in order to focus and or direct the transmitted beams. The invention relates to a device for forming an image of an object by means of ultrasonic beams, comprising an array of N electroacoustic transducers, each of which is arranged to generate an electrical signal when it receives an acoustic signal, means for connecting a selected group of M transducers M N to a delay unit which is arranged to delay the electrical signal generated by each transducer of the group by a predetermined period of time and to sum the delayed signals in order to form a resultant signal which is an electrical representation of the acoustic signals originating from a selected distance or from a selected direction, the delay unit being formed by a tapped delay line each of the taps of which serves as input for the signal originating from at least one of the selected transducers and whose output is connected to a signal processing device for the further processing of the resultant signal. A device of this kind is known, for example, from EP A 0 051 033. By a suitable choice of the delays imparted to the signals originating from the various transducers it can be achieved that the electrical signals which arrive at the signal processing device with the same phase correspond to acoustic signals from a predetermined distance focusing or from a predetermined direction beam steering . It is alternatively possible to carry out both focusing and beam steering. If it is desired to change the focal distance and or the beam direction during the formation of an image, as is usually the case, the delays imparted by the delay unit must be changed. The invention has for its object to provide a device of the kind set forth in which it is very easy to change over to other delays. To this end, the device in accordance with the invention is characterized in that more than one delay unit each of which with different delay properties is provided, there also being provided a switching unit which is arranged to switch on the various delay units in succession. A preferred embodiment of the device in accordance with the invention is characterized in that the delay units are followed by fixed delay lines whose delays are chosen so that the overall delay of signals passing through a delay unit and the associated fixed delay line is always the same. In order to minimize the loading on the taps of the delay line, a further embodiment of the device in accordance with the invention is characterized in that the taps of the delay line are connected to the associated transducers The invention will be described in detail hereinafter with reference to the accompanying diagrammatic drawing. Therein The device which is diagrammatically shown in Figure 1 comprises an array 1 with a row of N electroacoustic transducers T₁, T₂... T The cooperation between the switching member 3, the transmitter 5, the receiver 7 and the display device 13 which is necessary for the formation of an image, is controlled by a main control circuit 15. In a known version the receiver 7 comprises one delay unit 17 which is arranged to delay the electronic signal generated by each of the M transducers of the group by a predetermined period of time and to sum the delayed signals. Thus, a resultant signal is formed which is an electrical representation of acoustic signals received by the transducers. A suitable choice of the delay for each electric signal enables the distance and or the direction to be selected from which the echos represented by the resultant signal originate. Figure 2 shows diagrammatically an embodiment of the delay unit 17. The unit comprises a delay line 19 with taps 21 which serve as inputs for the signals originating from the various transducers. Inside the receiver 7, the output 23 of the delay line is connected to a signal processing device 25 Figure 1 for the further processing of the resultant signal. The signal processing device may comprise, for example, an amplifier or a memory circuit. The general construction of the device shown so far is known Between the inputs 27 of the delay unit which are connected to the bundle of leads 11, and the taps 21 there are connected current source circuits, each of which is formed by a transistor 29 with a resistor 31 in the emitter lead. The current source circuits offer the advantage that the loading of the taps of the delay line is substantially less than if the transducers were connected directly to these taps. A further advantage consists in that the signals originating from the various transducers can be selectively amplified or attenuated with respect to each other by a suitable choice of the values of the resistors 31, so that undesirable sidelobes are suppresses apodisation . The delay line 19 of the described embodiment is an electromagnetic delay line which is terminated at its beginning and its end by means of resistors 33. However, other tapped delay lines can alternatively be used. The delay of a signal is greater as the tap to which the relevant signal is applied, is situated further from the output 23. The distribution of the M transducers among the taps thus depends on the result to be achieved by means of the delay unit, as is known from EP A 0 051 033. This will be illustrated with reference to the Figures 3 and 4. Figure 3 shows diagrammatically a part of the array 1, a group of 10 transducers T Figure 4 shows diagrammatically a part of the array 1 with 10 selected transducers T It will be apparent from the foregoing that for each focal distance F a separate delay unit 17 will be required. For a given number of different beam directions α, however, a smaller number of delay units will suffice. This is because one and the same delay unit can be used for two beams, the directions 35 of which are inclined at the same angle with respect to the normal 39, but such that the first beam would approach the array 1 from below and from the right Figure 4 whilst the other beam would approach from below and from the left. It will suffice that the delay unit be connected inversely to the transducers in the second case, so that in the example of Figure 4 T In order to enable images to be formed quickly and easily with different focal distances and different beam directions, the receiver 7 Figure 1 comprises a, preferably electronic, switching unit 41 which is arranged to switch on the different delay units in succession. This will be described in detail with reference to Figure 5. This Figure shows a receiver 7 according to the invention which comprises three delay units 17 1 , 17 2 and 17 3 which are arranged to select echo signals with different focal distances F₁, F₂ and F₃, respectively. These delay units are followed by fixed delay lines 43 1 , 43 2 and 43 3 , respectively. The delays thereof are chosen so that the overall delay for signals passing through a delay unit 17 and the associated fixed delay line 43, is always the same. The switching unit 41 selects one of the fixed delay lines 43 for connection to the signal processing device 25. In order to avoid annoying interference in the image due to switching, the switching unit 41 is arranged so that switchover takes place comparatively slowly, so that only low frequency interference is introduced. The signal processing device 25 preferably comprises a suitable filter for suppressing such low frequency interference. The receiver 7 of the embodiment shown in Figure 5 comprises three delay units 17 which are suitable for focusing. Obviously, it is alternatively possible to use a different number of such units and or a desirable number of delay units adapted for beam steering. As in the embodiments described with reference to the Figures 3 and 4, the array 1 may comprise a number of transducers in a straight line, but other geometries are alternatively possible, for example, a number of transducers in a curved line or a disc like array with transducers in the form of concentric rings. The transmitter 5 Figure 1 may also comprise one or more tapped delay lines 19 in accordance with Figure 2 for the selective delay of the transmission pulses applied to the transducers in order to focus and or direct the transmitted beams.