# Compositions comprising highly dispersed metal on a graphite support.

## Abstract
A composition and method for the preparation thereof, said composition comprising highly dispersed, discrete particles of metal selected from Ni, Mo, Co and mixtures thereof on the surface of channels in graphite, wherein said channels are on the surface of the graphite oriented in a direction parallel to the basal plane thereof and wherein the average diameter of the metal particles is below about 100Å. This composition is an effective catalyst for hydrogenation reactions and the dispersed metal will gasify the graphite at elevated temperature in the presence of steam.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A composition comprising highly dispersed, discrete particles of Ni, Co, Mo, or mixtures thereof on the surface of channels in graphite wherein said channels are oriented in a direction parallel to the basal plane thereof. 2. A composition according to claim 1 wherein said particles of o metal have an average diameter below about lOOA, preferably below about o 25A. 3. A metal graphite composition comprising discrete particles of o metal of less than lO0A in diameter on the surface of channels formed across the surface of the graphite by the catalytic gasification of a portion of said graphite with hydrogen in the presence of said metal wherein said channels are oriented in a direction parallel to the basal plane thereof and wherein said metal is Ni, Co, Mo or a mixture thereof. 4. A composition according to either of claims 1 and 3 wherein said graphite is mixed with amorphous carbon. 5. A composition according to any one of claims 1, 3 and 4 wherein said metal is Ni, Co or a mixture thereof, preferably nickel. 6. A process for forming a dispersion of a metal on graphite, said metal being Ni, Co, Mo or a mixture thereof comprising the sequential steps of a contacting a composite of said metal and graphite with a net reducing, hydrogen containing atmosphere at a temperature ranging between about 800 9750C for a time sufficient for the metal to form a plurality of channels in said graphite b contacting said channelled composite formed in a with a net reducing hydrogen containing atmosphere at a temperature of at least about 9750C for a time sufficient for the metal in said channels to spread out and chemically wet at least a portion of the surface of said channels and c contacting said metal wetted, channelled composite formed in b with an oxidizing atmosphere at a temperature of at least about 8000C to form a dispersion of discrete particles of said metal on said graphite wherein the average diameter of said particles is less than o about lOOA. 7. A process according to claim 6 wherein said graphite is mixed with amorphous carbon. 8. A process according to either of claims 6 and 7 wherein said metal is nickel. 9. A process according to claim 8 wherein the amount of nickel is present on said composite is from about 5 to 30 wt. Z of the total weight thereof. 10. A process for catalytically gasifying carbon with steam in the presence of a catalytic metal comprising Ni, Co, Mo and mixtures thereof, said process comprising the steps of a contacting a composite of said metal and graphite with a net reducing, hydrogen containing atmosphere at a temperature ranging between about 800 9750C for a time sufficient for the metal to form a plurality of metal containing channels in the graphite b contacting said channeled composite formed in a with a net reducing hydrogen containing atmosphere at a temperature of at least about 9750C for a time sufficient for said metal in said channels to spread out and chemically wet at least a portion of the surface of said channels c contacting said metal wetted, channeled composite formed in b with an oxidizing atmosphere at a temperature of at least about 8000C to form a dispersion of discrete particles of said metal on said graphite wherein the average diameter of said particles is below about o lOOA and d contacting the dispersed metal graphite composite formed in c with steam at a temperature of at least about 8000C for a time sufficient for the metal to achieve the desired amount of gasification of the carbon. 11. A process according to claim 10 wherein the contacting temperatur in step d ranges from about 800 1,0000C. 12. A process according to either of claims 10 and 11 wherein in step c the contacting atmosphere is mildly oxidizing. 13. A process according to any one of claims 10 to 12 wherein said catalytic metal is Ni, Mo or a mixture thereof, preferably Ni. 14. A process according to any one of claims 10 to 13 wherein said oxidizing atmosphere in c comprises from 5 to 100 steam. 15. A process according to any one of claims 6 to 14 wherein the o average diameter of said metal particles is less than about 25A.

## Description
Metals of Groups VIA and VIII of thePeriodic Table, such as Ni, Co and Mo, deposited on a graphite support are known to be useful for various purposes including hydrogenation catalysis. Those skilled in the art know that the average particle size of the catalytic metal on a graphite support generally ranges from about 25i to 1,000a in diameter, with the vast majority of such catalysts having particles whose diameters range from between about 50A to 2502. Inasmuch as the catalytic activity of such catalysts is a function of the size of the catalyst particles, smaller metal particles will result in much more catalytically active species.It would be an improvement to the art if one could achieve catalyst compositions wherein the metal on the graphite is in the form of highly dispersed, discrete particles which have an average diameter below about 100i, preferably below about 502 and still more preferably below about 252. What has now been discovered is a composition of matter comprising highly dispersed, discrete metal particles on a graphite support wherein said metal particles are on the surface of channels in the graphite, wherein said channels are on the surface of the graphite and oriented in a direction parallel to the basal plane of the graphite. The metal will comprise one or more metals selected from Ni,Co, Mo and mixtures thereof. A particularly preferred metal comprises Ni.Although the metal particles may have diameters as large as the width of the channels i.e., 1,000 1,500i , it is preferred that the average diameter of the dispersed metal particles be below about 100A, preferably below about 50i and still more preferably below about 25. The channels are formed in the graphite via the catalytic gasification thereof with hydrogen wherein the metal acts as the catalyst for the gasification reaction. The composition or catalyst of this invention is formed via a process which comprises the sequential steps of a contacting a metal graphite composite with a net reducing, hydrogen containing atmosphere at a temperature of from about 800 975 C for a time sufficient for the metal to form a plurality of metal containing channels in the graphite, b contacting the metal containing, channeled composite formed in a with a net reducing, hydrogen containing atmosphere at a temperature of at least about 9750C for a time sufficient for the metal in said channels to spread out and chemically wet at least a portion of the surface of said so formed channels as a thin film of metal phase, followed by c contacting the metal wetted, channeled composite formed in b with an oxidizing atmosphere at a temperature of at least about 8000C to break up the film of metal phase in said channels into discrete particles of said metal on said graphite support.Preferred metals are Ni and Co and a particularly preferred metal is Ni. By graphite support is meant any graphite or graphite containing support. Suitable supports include relatively pure forms of graphite such as graphite single crystals and Grafoil. Also suitable are mixtures of graphite with other materials.Illustrative but non limiting examples of mixtures of graphite with other carbonaceous materials include asphalt, pitch, coke formed as a result of various hydrocarbon conversion reactions in petroleum refineries and petrochemical plants, etc., as well as coke formed on catalysts containing Ni, Co, Mo and mixtures thereof. As is well known to those skilled in the art, crystalline forms of carbon such as graphite have a basal plane or a face 1120 direction and a plane perpendicular to the basal plane called a c face. In the process of this invention, particles of the metal create channels in the c face by catalytically gasifying the graphite with hydrogen. These channels are formed across the surface of the graphite and are oriented parallel to the basal plane. This increases the surface area of the c face.It has been found that the metal will channel into the c face surface and chemically wet the surface of the so formed channels. These channels are formed along the basal planes. The depth of the channels into the c face is generally about one third of their width.It has also been found that if the graphite is mixed with non graphitic or amorphous carbon, the channeling metal particles will continue to channel into and gasify the amorphous carbon. Thus, the channeling metal particles will gasify a mixture of graphite and non graphitic or amorphous carbon. As has heretofore been stated, metals that have been found to be useful for the composition of matter of this invention are Ni, Co, Mo and mixtures thereof. Nickel and cobalt are preferred and nickel is particularly preferred as the metal. It is understood, of course, that the process of forming the catalyst of this invention may start with a composite of the metal and graphite or graphitecontaining material. Illustrative, but non limiting examples include coke deposited on a metal surface containing one or more of said metals, coked catalysts, etc Preferably, the metal is added to the graphite or graphite containing support by any convenient means known to those skilled in the art.Illustrative, but non limiting examples include evaporating the metal onto the graphite in a vacuum, plasma or flame spraying the metal onto the support and various wet chemistry techniques employing metal precursors such as impregnation, incipient wetness, etc., followed by drying and contacting with a reducing atmosphere at elevated temperature to ensure that the deposited metal is in the reduced, metallic form. Reducing the metal may be part of that step of the process of forming the composition of matter of this invention wherein the composite of graphite and metal is contacted with a hydrogen containing, net reducing atmosphere at elevated temperature to form metal containing channels in the graphite support.Metal precursors may be initially present on the graphite in the form of a metal salt or oxide such as carbonate, bicarbonate, sulfate, nitrate, etc., the main criterion being that the metal precursor be capable of decomposing to or being reduced to the metal at a temperature below about 8750C and preferably below about 8000C. The metal graphite composite must be heated in a hydrogen containing, net reducing atmosphere at a temperature within the range of from about 800 9750C for a time sufficient for the metal to form a plurality of metal containing channels in the graphite. The hydrogen containing atmosphere should be net reducing to both the metal and graphite and must be net reducing to the metal. Enough hydrogen must be present to allow the metal to catalytically gasify and channel the graphite. The hydrogen may be initially present as a component of the atmosphere or it may be formed in situ by using a mixture of, for example, steam and ethane and other mixtures of steam and saturated hydrocarbons such as paraffins and saturated cyclic hydrocarbons. The temperature range for channeling is critical inasmuch as channels will not be formed at temperatures below about 8000C. At temperatures above about 9750C, in a hydrogen containing, net reducing atmosphere, the metal will spread out and chemically wet the channels as a thin film at which point catalytic gasification and channeling cease. Channeling temperatures of from about 800 9750C are preferred and particularly preferred are temperatures within the range of from about 800 9250C. When the metal channels into the c face of the, graphite, it does so by catalytically gasifying the carbon with hydrogen to form a gas such as methane. Figure 1 schematically illustrates gasification and channeling of the graphite by a globule of nickel about 500i in diameter. In a preferred embodiment of the invention, the metal graphite composite will be heated within this temperature range in the net reducing, hydrogen containing atmosphere for a time sufficient to achieve from about 5 20 wt. gasification of the graphite support. Unless catalytic gasification of the graphite or graphiteamorphous carbon mixture is the desired result, it is preferred that the total catalytic gasification of the graphite due to the channeling not exceed about 25 wt. 96 of the graphite. In practice, it has been found that the gasification rate of the graphite is roughly proportional to the concentration of metal thereon up to about 5 wt. metal. As the amount of metal on the graphite exceeds about 5 wt. , the gasification rate approaches a constant value. After channeling of the graphite support has proceeded to the desired level, as evidenced by the amount of gasification of the graphite, the temperature is raised above about 9750C at which point the metal in the channels spreads out and chemically wets the surface of the so formed channels as a film of metal phase and catalytic gasification ceases. By chemical wetting it is meant that the metal wets and chemically bonds to the surface of the channels in the graphite. While not wishing to be held to any particular theory, it is believed that the metal chemically wets the channels as a film approximately one monolayer thick. The metal film exhibits strong interaction with the graphite support and is in itself a unique composition of matter inasmuch as it does not exhibit the properties of the bulk metal. Thus, the term metal phase refers to this unique film.In order for this metal wetting to occur, it is important that the metal graphite composite be in contact with a netreducing, hydrogen containing atmosphere. This atmosphere should be net reducing with respect to both the metal and graphite support and must be net reducing with respect to the metal. A preferred temperature range for the wetting and metal phase film forming step will range from about 975 to 1150 C, the upper limit being governed by noncatalytic gasification of the graphite which begins to occur at about 12000C in the presence of hydrogenHowever, if necessary, one can exceed the upper limit of 11500C without adversely effecting the metal wetted surface of the composite. One merely loses more graphite support. In the final step of the process, the metal wetted, channeled composite is contacted with an oxidizing atmosphere, preferably a mild oxidizing atmosphere such as CO2 or steam and most preferably steam, at a temperature of at least about 8000C which breaks up the metal phase film in the channels into a highly dispersed form of metal which exists as discrete particles having an average diameter of less than 252. It is believed that the average diameter of the metal particles is below about 102 when the metal film initially breaks up. However, continued heating of the dispersed metal graphite composite at temperatures of 1,0000C and higher will cause these metal particles to agglomerate and grow in size. If desired, particle sizes of 5002 or more in diameter can be achieved.This thus provides a novel and convenient way of achieving a wide range of average particle sizes having relatively narrow particle size distribution of the dispersed metal at any given particle size. It is understood, of course, that contacting the metal film graphite composite with a metal oxidizing atmosphere will result in at least a portion of the dispersed metal i.e., at least a portion of the surface thereof particles being in the oxide form which can then be reduced back to the metal by contact with a hydrogen containing, net reducing atmosphere at a temperature below about 9750C to avoid rewetting the graphite with the dispersed metal and concomitant film formation.This results in a much more active catalyst because of the greater metal area compared to conventional dispersions of metals, such as nickel on graphite, wherein the average particle diameter ranges from between about 50 1,0002 and, more generally, between from about 100 250A and where there is generally a wide particle size distribution. Illustrative, but non limiting examples of suitable oxidizing atmospheres includes steam, carbon dioxide, nitric oxide, oxygen, air, etc. The invention is further illustrated in the drawings in which Figure 1 is a schematic illustration of a globule of metal about 500a in diameter channeling into the c face of graphite Figure 2 is a schematic illustration of a globule or particle of channeling metal having the general shape of a hemispherical topped cylinder of diameter D and Figure 3 is a plot of experimental data showing the relative rate of graphite gasification in a net reducing, hydrogen containing atmosphere as a function of nickel particle diameter at a given total quantity of nickel. The invention will be more readily understood by reference to the examples below.EXAMPLE 1 Spectrographically pure nickel 99.9 pure was deposited onto transmission specimens of single crystals of graphite Ticonderoga, New York State as a monolayer film approximately one atom thick by evaporation from a heated tungsten filament at a residual pressure of 5x10 6 Torr. These nickelcontaining specimens were placed in a controlled atmosphere electron microscope CAEM for the experimental work. Ethane 99.999 pure Scientific GasProducts was bubbled through water at 0 C to generate a 40 1 ethane water gas mixture which was then passed through the CAEM at a pressure of 1.0Torr. As the nickel graphite specimens were heated in the ethane steam atmosphere in the CAEM, sporadic nucleation of the evaporated nickel film into small discrete particles was observed at a temperature of about 7500C.Those skilled in the art will know that the ethane steam mixture formed hydrogen in situ in the CAEM on contact with the nickel graphite specimens. As the temperature was gradually raised to 8900C particle nucleation and growth became more extensive and the first signs of catalytic attack were observed. This action was seen as the creation of very fine straight channels parallel to the a face 1120 and perpendicular to the c face produced by metal particles 50 150A diam. which had collected at edges and steps on the surface. As the temperature was raised both the depth and size of particles propogating channels increased. At any given temperature it was apparent that the largest particles were producing channels at the fastest rates. Catalytic action increased in intensity until the temperature reached about 1,0000C, when many cf the narrower channels suddenly became devoid of catalyst particles at their head. This behavior became more generalized at 1,0500C, extending to include even the larger particles 5,000R and was identical in every respect to that observed for nickel graphite specimens in a hydrogen atmosphere set forth in Example 4 below. Ultimately the channeling ceased as the nickel particles became completely disseminated. Continued heating up to l,2500C produced no further catalytic action or restorati on of the original particles and only at the highest temperatures were indications of uncatalyzed gasification of graphite apparent.Discrete nickel particle formation was achieved again by treating these inactive specimens in oxygen at 8500C.EXAMPLE 2 In this example, nickel graphite specimens produced as in Example 1 were placed in the CAEM in the presence of pure 99.999 oxygen at a pressure of 5 Torr. Nucleation of nickel particles was essentially complete at about 6350C. As the temperature was slowly raised, there was very little evidence of catalytic gasification. The experiment was concluded at 11500C due to vigorous, uncatalyzed gasification of the graphite which often resulted in specimen disintegration.EXAMPLE 3 This experiment was similar to that inExamples 1 and 2, except that the atmosphere in theCAEM was 40 1 argon steam at a pressure of 1 Torr.Thus, in this experiment as in that in Example 2, an oxidizing atmosphere was used in the CAEM. The results were similar to those in Example 2 except that catalytic gasification of the carbon ensued at about 9350C with the nickel particles forming channels in the graphite parallel to the basal plane. Uncatalyzed attack of the graphite became significant at about 1,100 C. EXAMPLE 4 This experiment was similar to that ofExamples 1 3, except that the atmosphere in the CAEM was 1 Torr dry hydrogen 99.999 pure . Nickel particle nucleation commenced at about 7550C with catalytic attack of the graphite commencing at about 8450C which was seen as the development of fine channels parallel to the a face or basal plane of the graphite surface. As the temperature was raised, both the size and the number of channeling particles increased. The channels were up to 1,5002 in width, had many straight sections interrupted by changes in direction of 600C or 1200C, and were orientated parallel to the basal plane. There were also examples of particles possessing hexagonal facets at the graphite catalyst interface which were orientated parallel to 1010 directions. On continued reaction it became evident that the channeling nickel particles were wetting the channels formed in the graphite and leaving material or the sides thereof. As a consequence the nickel catalyst particles became smaller giving the channels a tapered appearance and, ultimately when all the catalyst was depleted, channels ceased to develop.The thickness of the nickel film formed on the surfaces of the channels was less than the 252 resolution of the CAEM. This wetting phenomenon, which started at 9800C, was essentially complete by the time the temperature had been raised to 1,0980C. Continued heating in hydrogen up to 1,2500C produced no further catalytic action or restoration of the original particles and only at the highest temperature was it possible to detect signs of uncatalyzed attack. Subsequent cooling or heating in vacuo produced no change in specimen appearance, indicating that the metal support interaction was very strong. It was significant that inactive particles remained static on the surface and showed less tendency to lose material during the reaction.If hydrogen was replaced by oxygen and the specimen reheated, then at 8500C, small particles less than about 2sR diameter started to reform along the edges of the original channels which were in the process of undergoing expansion due to uncatalyzed oxidation. This observation supported the idea that particle shrinkage in hydrogen was due to film formation along channel edges rather than volatilization. Eventually, at 1,0650C in oxygen these particles proceeded to cut very fine channels emanating from the edges of the original channels.This behavior paralleled that found for Ni graphite heated directly in oxygen.EXAMPLE 5 This experiment was similar to those ofExamples 1 4, except that the atmosphere in the CAEM was hydrogen steam at a 40 1 ratio. The results were similar to those obtained in Example 4, except that channeling occurred at about 7800C and uncata lyzed attack occurred at about l,1500C. Thus, in oxidizing environments the major source of carbon gasification was due to uncatalyzed attack by the oxidizing atmosphere Examples 2 3 whereas in the hydrogen containing atmospheres, which were net reducing with respect to the nickel Examples 1, 4 and 5 , the carbon gasification was virtually completely catalytic. The most significant aspect of these examples resides in the discovery that, in a net reducing, hydrogen containing atmosphere, the nickel spread out and wetted the so formed channel surfaces and that if the so formed nickel film was exposed to an oxidizing atmosphere i.e., 02 or H20 , discrete particles of nickel formed from the film on the channel surfaces and the catalytic gasification process could be repeated if one then switched back to a netreducing, hydrogen containing atmosphere.The cycle of channeling, wetting and redispersion of the nickel into discrete particles could be repeated indefinitely until there was virtually no graphite left.EXAMPLE 6 This experiment was identical to that ofExample 1, except that the atmosphere in the CAEM was ethane hydrogen steam in a ratio of approximately 38 2 1, respectively. Nickel particle nucleation occurred at about 7500C, but was much crisper than that in Example 1 and channeling occurred at about 8450C. The presence of 5 hydrogen in the ethane steam mixture of Example 1 resulted in a five fold increase in the rate of the nickel catalyzed gasification of the graphite. EXAMPLE 7 This example demonstrates the unusual and unique hydrogen chemisorption properties of the wetted nickel film on the channel surfaces of the graphite. Nickel on Grafoil specimens were prepared using an incipient wetness technique. 5mm disks ofGrafoil were soaked in a solution of nickel acetate in methanol for one half hour at 800C after which the Grafoil disks were dried for eight hours at 1200C and washed with methanol to remove the excess nickel salt to produce a nickel Grafoil precursor. The unreduced nickel content of this precursor material was 2.7 wt. . This precursor was reduced for two hours at 6000C in pure hydrogen to produce nickel Grafoil specimens. Specific details of the subsequent experiments are given in Tables 1 3 which are summarized below. Following reduction at 6000C, the nickel Grafoil specimens adsorbed per gram 0.080 cc of hydrogen, of which 0.048 cc was reversibly adsorbed, at an equilibrium hydrogen pressure of 0.26 atm.Under the same conditions, but following an additional treatment in hydrogen at 1,1000C for one hour, the nickel Grafoil did not show any hydrogen chemisorption capacity which indicates a modification in the hydrogen chemisorption properties of nickel in the new state produced by the latter treatment. When this material was steamed at 1,0000C in a H2O He stream 1 40 for one to two hours, the hydrogen capacity was partially restored as 0.043 cc of hydrogen could be chemisorbed. By further rereduction at 6000C for 0.5 hours, the latter value was increased to 0.052 cc of hydrogen per gram of catalyst. It was then concluded that steaming the modified nickel Grafoil composite restored the original chemisorption properties of the nickel. This example demonstrates that o treatment in hydrogen at 1,000 1,1000C of nickel on graphite Grafoil leads to a new chemical state of nickel in which the metal does not show its usual hydrogen chemisorption proper ties and o the new chemical state of nickel on graphite Grafoil that can be prepared by the above treatment can be broken to regenerate the nickel film as small nickel particles which chemisorb hydrogen. Additional experiments employing ferromagnetic resonance studies of the nickel Grafoil specimens supported the hydrogen chemisorption studies and reinforced the conclusions that a film like nickel phase formed by wetting in the channels and that this phase strongly interacts with theGrafoil support and contains very little dissolved carbon.EXAMPLE 8 This example demonstrates the great increase in the overall rate of gasification of graphite that is achieved when a large particle of catalytic metal is redispersed into a number of smaller particles. The catalytic effect of two particles, a 802 in diameter and b 800A in diameter which gasify carbon by the channeling mode, is examined using the following mathematical procedure i Computation of the Particle Volumes During channel formation, electron microscopy has revealed that channeling particles assume a shape which is best approximated by a cylinder of diameter D and height W surmounted by a hemisphere of diameter D, as depicted in Figure 2. The cylindrical portion of the particle is embedded in the channel, and the hemispherical portion projects from the surface.The volume of such a particle is given by D2 W 2 D3 V 4 3 8 Experimental evidence obtained from a shadowing procedure indicates that W 7 0.25, which reduces to V D3 2 D 48 For a particle where D 8nm, V 2.35 x 102 nm3 and where D 80 nm, V 2.35 x 105 nm3. We can therefore generate 1000 particles D 8 nm from 1 particle D 80 nm . ii Calculation of Amount of Carbon Gasified as a Function of Catalyst Particle Size The number of moles of carbon gasified per second, dn, is given by dt dn RDW P dt M, where is the rate of channel propagation D is the particle diameter W is the depth of the channel p is the density of graphite, 2.25 g cm 2 M is the atomic weight of carbon, 12 The experimentally determined relationship between rate of channel proPagation and nickel particle size for gasification of carbon in steam at 1,0000C is given in Figure 3 from nickel graphite specimens prepared following the procedure in Example 1. This data was obtained from direct observation of the catalytic reaction using controlled atmosphere electron microscopy. The changes in appearance of the specimen are continuously recorded on video tape and this information is subsequently transferred to 16 mm cine film. Detailed kinetic analysis is performed from frame by frame projection of the movie. In this particular case one measures the linear increase in channel length as a function of time from such measurements it is a simple operation to calculate the rate of reaction of a given sized particle. Since the depths of channels vary from particle to particle, comparisons such as that given in Figure 3 are made from particles channeling at a similar depth to each other. This aspect is determined from the difference in contrast in the image between the channel and the surrounding unattacked graphite.Thus the only variables in the measurements plotted in Figure 3 are the particle sizes and the linear propagation rate of the channels. From this data we find that the rate of channels propagated by 80 nm diameter particles is 3.75 nm s l, and that by 8 nm diameter particles is D 12.2 nm s l, Assuming that W is 4, we can calculate 4, the number of moles of carbon gasified per sec by each of these particles by substitution of the numerical values into equation 3. For 80 nm diam. particles, dn 1.125 x 10 18 moles s l and for 8 nn dt dn diam. particles, dt 3.66 x 10 20 moles s 1. How ever, as shown previously one 80 nm diam. particle can create 1000 , 8 nm diam. particles, and in this case the total number of moles of carbon gasified per second would be 3.66 x 10 17 moles s 1, i.e. this would result in a net increase in carbon gasification rate of 32.5 times that generated by the one larger particle. TABLE 1TREATMENTS AND HYDROGEN CHEMISORPTIONS ON NICKEL GRAPHOIL TemperatureTemperature C MeasurementsA Reduction in H2 Evacuation EvacuationEMI18.1 600 a 550 25Chemisorption of H2 25 C1, C2Treatment in Hi EvacuationEvacuationEMI18.2 1095 b 550 25Chemisorption of H2 25 C3, C4Treatment in H2 1000Evacuation 500Desorption 1000 D1 Evacuation 950Evacuation 25Chemisorption of H2 25 C5 SteamingPurging in HeEvacuationEMI18.3 800 c 3 25 Chemisorption of H2 25 C6 Steaming 1000 c Chemisorption of H2 25 C7B a b Chemisorption of H2 25 C3, Steaming 1000 c Chemisorption of H2 25 C6, Treatment in H2 600 Evacuation 25 Chemisorption of H2 25 C8 TABLE 2CHEMISORPTION OF HYDROGEN ON NICKEL GRAPHOIL CATALYSTS Volume H2 b Run Treatment a Adsorbed 1.C1 Reduced 6000C, total ,0.080 C2 Reduced 6000C, reversible 0.048 C3 Treated 1095 C, in H2, 2 hrs. 0.020 C4 Evacuated 25 C, following C3 0.023 C5 Evacuated 1000 C 0.0 C6 Steaming 800 C 0.0 C7 Stemming 1000 C 0.042 2. C3, Reduced 600 C, treated 1000 C 0.0 in H2, 1 hr. C61 Steamed 100 C, 1 hr. 0.0425 C7, Reduced 6000C 0.0525 a See Table 1 for details b Value at an equilibrium pressure of 200 Torr. as cc H2 STP gram of catalyst. TABLE 3 X RAY DIFFRACTION AND CHEMISORPTION DATA OF TREATED NICKEL GRAPHOIL SPECIMENS Treatment H2 Chemisorption and X ray 1. Reduced at 6000C Large particles and normal H2 chemisorption 2. Reduced at 600 C, Smaller particles, but treated in H2 at poor H2 chemisorption, 1000 C, evacuated about zero see C6 at 950oC followed Table 2 . by steaming at 8000C.