# Broadband antenna system.

## Abstract
The broadband antenna system here considered and assembled from the elements described, is serving for the reception of signals for Radio and Television. The special features are the compactness, the reception of signals from every direction, the insensibility for disturbing elements and climat conditions atmosferics , the versatility and easy managebility, weak signals produce a good picture and sound, both for black white and color TV without the use of separate amplifiers. With this invention it has to be postulated that the described aerial can be used as a replacement for the TV and Radioaerialsystem of today, that are so disfiguring our environment and that need so much space. On places outside the transmitting field of a transmitter also this aerial on limited height will not be able to make the signals visable.

## Claims
THE CLAIMS. 1 The required claims we ask for intend to be for all drawings and all types of this WIDE RANGE AERIAL SYSTEM. It also has be taken in to account that from the steeringsscreen there are many many more possibilities for the connection of the aerial to the receiving unit. So it is possible that there will be many changes in the connection possibilities, because there are so many, and especially we think of the field of the Central Aerial System. Draw. I Side view of the Aerial type A. Draw. II Top view of the Aerial type A. Draw. III Side view of the Aerial type B C D and E. Draw. IV Top view of the Aerial type B. Draw. V Top view of the Aerial type C. Draw. VI Top view of the Aerial type D Draw. VII Top view of the Aerial type E. Draw. VIII View and section of the housing. Draw. IX A Elementholder. B Separationpipe for the prints C Distanceinsulater for the elements. D Faney and insulationcap for the elem. E. F FM elements suitable for placing in different cor ners. Draw. X F Bottom and side view of the housing, to be made from PVC or another synthetic material not be become sta tic. Gi Print for the elementholder and the pole connection filter, also in use as a steeringscreen. GIl The connectionprint for the steeringscreen mk filter and the two tubetrimmers. GlII Print for the two N elements in use for aerial type A. Draw. XI H Connectionfilter including 2 tubetrimmers for set ting the outgoing power. I The lid for the housing F. J The big Dipole for the reception of channels 1 70. Draw. XII K The small Dipole for the channels 1 70. L The elements in use for the channels 12 70. The set corner of this elements can differ from O to lao de grees. Draw. XIII N The connection elements in use for all channels, but on the drawing only placed in type A.

## Description
Wide range aerial system. The invention applies to a wide range system for the reeeDtion of radiowaves for the FM band and the other wave frequences , and for the reception of Television image lines on the VHF UHF channels and or other signals an aerial can be used for. Up to the present the reception of Radiowaves and TV image lines usually take place through apole on which Rasters and Dipoles in varions shapes and sizes are installed, those must be pointed on the senders that transmit the signals. The Radiowaves and TV image lines are received by an aerial. The aerial only receives the signals well when it is pointed directly to the transmitting station, and when the aerial is placed in a way that there are no obstacles between the transmitter and the receiver like Qky serapers, Buildingsteel, and or other constructions that could have an influence on the transmitted signals. Beside the need that the aerial is pointed very well to the transmitter, the quality of the receiption of Radiowaves and TV image lines depends with today s system very much of other disturbing elements like Planes,Cars, Motorbikes, all kind of Machineries and Climat conditions atmospheries . The above mentioned circumstances can have ahuge influence on the reception possibilities of Radiowaves and TV image lines. With today s system without amplification there is al. o the need that the transmitted signals for Television must have a minimal power of 15 25 dB to enable an acceptable reception of the signals. The aerialsystems for Radio and TV used so far have some more disadvantages the immense maintenance need, the space occupancy and the disfigurement. The goal of this invention is to come up whit an aerial system that, without affecting the quality of picture and sound, will avoid the said disadvantages. While constructing an aerial according to the described invention and the drawings enclosed, this goal is reacted. It has to be postulated that the aerial described here must be seen as a replacement for today s systems for the reception of Radiowaves and TV image lines that disfigure our envirement so much. The discription deals mainly with the principle of TV waves, but the same thing applies and even in equal proportions for Radiowaves with all its possible channels. THE WIDE RANGE AERIAL SYSTEM The wide range aerialsystem is constructed from a number of elements made from alumiumbars of round 4mm that is 0.16 inch in section to get the sensibility as high as possible and the weight as low as possible. For the construction of the aerial other materials can be used too, like Springsteel, Copper and Brass. All these materials the elements can be made from. The position of the Dipoles assure that these elements will receive transmitted signals, incoming trough the elements E J K L and M are transmitted to a steeringscreen draw.XGI3. This screen takes eare that the picttlres signals and waves to be received are free from reflection and other disturbing elements. It is very important that even signals with a power of only afew decibels can be received and than be amplified in such a way by meons of the construction of the elements that they can be transmitted as well visible picture. This is in direct contrast with today s system, while now amplifying elements and amplifurs nears the aerial are needed to make weak and bad TV inmage lines receivable and usefull for reproduction. Through an insulated system the signals enter the housing of the elements,where they are connected to 4 element holders. Next the signals are transmitted to a series of prints that take care for the follorsing transmitting of the signals. The prints are connected and linked by means of a Pole connectionfilter with 2 tubetrimmers avoiding an overload of signals on the exitsignal of the serial. Otherwise an overlord could enter the receiver and disturb the picture. With the 2 tubetrimmers and connectiofffilter installed,it is possible to create a power stability of 40 75 ohM. Without further arrangements the aerial so can be connected to the existing coaxcable and is therefore also usable for all aerial junctions, even for all thenow existing aerialsystems in every design and construction. Depending on the type and construction of the aerial, the prints also can be omitted. In that case the parts are placed in the housing without connection, which is possible because after the assembling the housing will be filled with cast resin or epoxyresin resulting in a definite separation of the elements and avoiding internal failures. In certain cases an amplifier will be needed and if so, during the assembling this has to be taken in to account. Although there are several possibilities, the best resuts you get with a pole amplifier mounted an a print within the housing OM 335 DMT . As shown on the drawings there are different desings of the aerial available. Living close to the transmitters sometimes one single element is sufficient, of course depending on the demands made and the given possibilities of the receivable channels. DEFINITION OF THE DRAWINGS The drawings I and III show the side views of the aerial typesA B C D and E, while the drawings II IV V VI and VII show the top views of the different types. The elements of above mentioned aerials are madefrom a certain kind of Duralmin Alumium, where the bars round 4mm are made from For this kind of Alumium is chosen because of the different atmosferic influences. Depending on the circumstances also other materials can be used some of them are mentioned before.Both thicker and thinner types are useful depending on the demands made and the chosen possibilities. The elements L see draw. XII L3 are placed in an element holder acc. to drawing IX A. Over or under this holder the elements J and K are installed draw. XI J and XII K . In the top of the elementholder the elements E draw. IX E 3 are screwed. At the bottom the print or steerigscreen is mounted using 4 treads Mali, making it one unit according to draw. IX E and X I. There is a possibility that in the final production the elementholder and the elements E will be producted like one single unit see draw.IX A and IX E3. The two long mountingpins of the connectionfilter draw. XI H3 are passed through the two prints draw. X Gil and Gill and assembled on print G 1 draw.X G 1 there after the tow trimmers are placed on print III draw. X III3. Before the assembling the whole construction however has to be placed in the housing draw. X F . After wards this housing is filled up with cast or epoxy resin. Depending on the type, the elements M are placed draw. XIII M on the print II and III draw. X Gil and GIll , after that the trimmers are assembled and connected. After assembling and casting a lid draw. XI I3 is placed and the unit is ready now for the setting and control procedures. After checking the reception of Radiowaves and TV image lines the aerial is ready for installation. The aerial can be installed in many ways. It depends on the situation of the object the aerial has to be placed on. For that reason there are a lot of mounting possibilities, for instance shortening the pole of the existing rial after removing the aerial in such a wav teat tha new aerial just reses above the roof. Another way is to install this type of aerial on an attie. It is advised to determine the best place for the aerial with the help of a measuring receiver.