# Hinged window locking mechanism.

## Abstract
Essential parts, such as a toggle device and a locking device 62, 64, 70, 78 , of the hinged window locking mechanism are all located at the outside of a base member 38 secured to the vehicle body so as not to project toward the inside of the vehicle beyond the base member.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A locking mechanism for a window 12 which is hinged at its one edge to a vehicle body 14 so as to be swingable at the outside of the vehicle body to open and close a window opening 16 formed in the vehicle body, said locking mechanism comprising a base member 38 secured to the vehicle body and projected into the window opening a toggle device including pivotally connected two links 46,50 , one link being pivotally connected at its free end to said base member and the other link being pivotally connected at its free end to a free end portion of t e hinged window and a locking device 62,62a,64,64a,78,78a,70 94,94c,90,90a,98 for locking said hinged window when said window takes its fully closed position, wherein said toggle device and said locking device are all located at the outside of said base member so as not to project toward the inside of the vehicle beyond the base member. 2. A locking mechanism as claimed in Claim 1, in which said base member is of a generally channel shaped construction comprising a smoothly curved bottom wall 38a and two side walls 38b,38c by which is defined a groove 42 which faces toward the outside of the vehicle, and in which said toggle device and said locking device are housed in said groove. 3. A locking mechanism as claimed in Claim 2, in which said the other link of the toggle device is pivotally connected to the free end portion of the hinged window through a bracket 54 . 4. A locking mechanism as claimed in Claim 3, in which said loci device comprises first means 62, 62a 94 connected to said bracket to be movable t erewith and thus with said hinged window and second means 611,64a,78,78a,70 94c,90,9Oa,98 for locking, when sa d first means is moved to a predetermined position, said first means against the movement of the same in a direction to open the hinged window. 5. A locking mechanism as claimed in Claim II, in which said first means comprises a striker member 62 which is projected toward the inside of said groove of the base member, said striker member being formed with an opening 62a , and in which said second means comprises a latch member 64 which is received in the groove 42 in a manner to be movable in a direction perpendicular to a direction in which said striker member moves, said latch member being formed with both an opening 64a through which said striker member is insertable and a claw portion 78 which is projected into the opening of the latch member, said latch member being biased to move in one direction by biasing means 70 so that when said striker member is inserted into the opening of said latch member by a predetermined degree, said claw portion is forced to enter the opening of said striker Be by the force of said biasing means. 6. A locking mechanism as claimed in Claim 5, in which said claw portion is formed with a tapered surface 78c to which the head of said striker member is contactable to move the latch member in the other direction against the force of the biasing means. 7. A locking mechanism as claimed in Claim 6, in which said latch member is movably received in respective openings 66,68 formed in spaced partition walls 38d,38e which are spanned between said side walls 38b,38c of said base member. 8. A locking mechanism as claimed in Claim 7, in which said biasing means is a spring 70 which has one end connected to said latch member and the other end connected to said base member. 9. A locking mechanism as claimed in Claim 8, in which said latch member is equipped with a stopper 76 which is contactable with one 38e of said partition walls to restrict the excessive movement of said latch member which is induced by the force of said spring. 10. A locking mecanism as claimed in Claim 9, in which said striker member is provided with an operation handle 60 . 11. k locking mechanism as claimed in Claim X, in which said first means comprises a generally V shaped lever 94 having angled two wings 9ha,94b , said lever being pivotally mounted at its base section on an extension 92a from the bracket 54 , and in which said second means comprises a hook portion 94c formed on one 94a of said wings, and an opening 90a formed in a partition wall 90 spanned between said side walls of said base member, said V shaped lever being biased to rotate in a direction by biasing means 98 so that when said lever approaches said bottom wall 38a of said base member by a predetermined degree, said hook on said wing is forced to enter the opening 90a of said partition wall by the action of said biasing means. 12. a locking mechanism as claimed in Claim 11, in which said biasing means is a coil spring 98 which is disposed about a pivot shaft 96 by which saidV shaped lever is pivotally mounted to said extension, one end of said spriffg being connected to said lever and he other ere C said spring being connected to said lever and the other end of said spring being connected to SEid extension. 13. A locking mechanism as climed in Claim 11, in which said V shaped lever is formed with a projection 94d which is engageable with another projection 92b formed on said extension thereby restricting the excessive rotation of the lever which is induced by the action of said spring. a a locking mechanism as claimed in Claim 13, in which said extension is formed into an operation handle 92 . 15. A locking mechanism as claimed in Claim 4, further comprising open position holding means 50a,86,86a for holding said hinged window in a fully open position. 16. A locking mechanism as claimed in Claim 15, in which sai d open position holding means comprises at least one projection 50a formed on the other link 50 , and at least one catching arm 86 constructed of an elastic resilient material, said arm being formed with a recess 86a into which said projection of said the other link is slidable when said two links 46,50 are fully expanded.

## Description
HINGED WINDOW LOCKING MECHANISMBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates in general to a locking mechanism for a window, and more particularly to a locking mechanism for locking a vehicular hinged window.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION It is an object of the present invention to provide an improved locking mechanism for a vehicular hinged window, which mechanism offers operators a safe handling work. It is another object of the present invention to provide an improved locking mechanism for a vehicular hinged window, by which mechanism the hinged window can De locked not only from the inside but also from the outside of the vehicle. According to the present invention, there is provided a locking mechanism for a window which is hinged at its one edge to a vehicle body so as to be swingable at the outside of the vehicle body to open and close a window opening formed in the vehicle body, the locking mechanism comprising a base member secured to the vehicle body and projected into the window opening, a toggle device including pivotally connected two links, one link being pivotally connected at its free end to the base member and the other link being pivotally cpnnected at its free end to a free end portion of the hinged window, and a locking device for locking the hinged window when the window takes its fully closed position, wherein the toggle device and the locking device are all located at the outside of the base member so as not to project toward the inside of the vehicle beyond the base member.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS Other objects and advantages of the present invention will become appare t from the following description when taken in conction with the accompanying drawings, in which Fig. 1 is a sectional view of a conventional locking mechanism for a hInged window Fig. 2 is a sectional view of a locking mechanism of a first embodiment of the present invention Fig. 3 is a sectional view taken along the line 111 Ill of Fig. 2 Fig. 4 is a view taken from the direction IV ofFig. 2 Fig. 5 is a view taken from the direction V ofFig. 2 Fig. 6 is a view taken from the direction VI of Fig. 2 Fig. 7 is a sectional view taken along the line Vil Vil of Fig. 2 Fig. 8 is a sectional view taken along the lineVIII VIII of Fig. 2 Fig. 9 is a sectional view of a second link at a portion where tapered projections are provided Fig. 10 is a fragmentary perspective view of a latch member Fig. 11 is a sectional view of a locking mechanism of a second embodiment of the present invention rig. 12 is t ailed view of a portion of the second embodiment, where a generally V shaped lever and an operation handle are located Fig. 13 is a partially broken view of the portion shown by Fig. 12 and Fig. 14 is a view taken from the direction XIV of Fig. 12.DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION Prior to describing the invention, one of the conventional hinged window locking mechanisms will be described with reference to Fig. 1 in order to clarify the invention. In Fig. 1, there is shown a conventional locking mechanism 10 which is applied to a hinged window 12 of the vehicle. The window 12 is hinged at its one edge not shown to an inner panel 14 of the vehicle body to be swingable at the outside of the vehicle to open and close a window opening 16 formed in. the vehicle body 14. The peripheral portion of the window opening 16 is margined with a weather strip 18 to assure, upon closing of the window 12, water sealing between the window 12 and the vehicle body 14. The locking mechanism 10 hereinshown is of a togglelink type, which comprises a link 20 having one end pivotally connected via a pivot shaft 22 to a bracket 24 secured to the vehicle body 14. The other end of the link 20 is pivotally connected via a pivot shaft 26 to an end of a handle 28. The other end of the handle 28 is pivotally connected via a pivot shaft 30 to a bracket 32 secured to the free end portion of the window 12. A bolt nut unit 34 is used for connection of the bracket 32 to the window 12.When locking the window 12 at its closed position is required, the handle 28 and the link 20, which are jointed to each other, are folded up to assume the position indicated by phantom lines, and when opening the window 12 is required, the handle 28 and the link 20 are expanded moving the window 12 outward. However, this type locking mechanism has several drawbacks in the following respects. First, because of its inherent construction, the handle 28 is projected remarkably toward the inside of the vehicle cabin upon handling thereof. This imposes a troublesome and dangerous handling work of a person who handles the locking mechanism.Second, since the locking of the window 12 has to be made by handling the locking mechanism itself, it is impossible to lock the window 12 by a person who stands outside of the vehicle. To eliminate the above mentioned drawbacks and inconveniency is an essential object of the present invention. Referring to rigs. 2 to 9, especially Fig. 2, there is shown a first embodiment of the present invention.The locking mechanism 36 of this embodiment comprises a base member 38 which can act as a cover of essential parts of the mechanism as will become clear hereinafter.The base member 38 is of a generally channel shaped construction as is seen from Fig. 3. The base member 38 is secured at its one end to the vehicle body inner panel 14 by bolts 40 and has a housing portion which is projected into the window opening 16. The housing portion is comprised of a smoothly curved bottom wall 38a and two spaced side walls 38b and 38c standing on the bottom wall 38a by which is defined a groove 42 which faces toward the outside of the vehicle.A pivotal shaft 44 is spanned between the side walls 38b and 38c for pivotally mounting thereon an end of a first link 46 of which the other end is pivotally connected via a pivot pin 48 to an end of a second link 50. The other end of the second link 50 is pivotally connected via a pivot pin 52 to an end of a bracket 54. The bracket 54 is secured at its base section to the free end portion of the hinged window 12 by bolts 56. For assuring the reliable connection of the bracket 54 to the window 12, a packing 58 of elastic material is disposed between the bracket 54 and the window 12. An operation handle 60 is secured at its one end to the leading end of the bracket 54 to be movable therewith. As sho Wn in Fig. 2, the free end of the handle 60 projects slightly beyond the leading end of the housing portion of the base member 38. The handle 60 is formed at its generally middle section with a projection or striker portion 62 which extends toward the inside of the housing portion of the base member 38. For the reason which will become apparent as the description proceeds, the striker portion 62 is formed with an opening 62a. Incorporating with the striker portion 62 is a rod shaped latch member 64 which is received in the housing portion of the base member 38 in a manner to be movable in a direction perpendicular to a direction in which the striker portion 62 moves. For receiving or holding therein the latch member 64, the base member 38 is formed with spaced first and second partition walls 38d and 38e which are spanned between the side walls 38b and 38c. As shown by Fig. 2, the first partition wall 38d is positioned at the leading end of the base member 38 and has a greater thickness than the second partition wall 3 e. These partition walls 38d and 38e are resgectiel formed with aligned openings 66 and 68 by and in which the latch member 64 is axially movably received.A spring 70 is compressed between a spring seat 72 of the latch member 64 and another spring seat 74 of the first partition wall 38d to bias the latch member 64 in the leftward direction in Fig. 2.For preventing the latch member 64 from coming off from the partition walls 38d and 38e of the base member 38, the inboard end of the latch member is equipped with a stopper 76 which is contactable with the second partition wall 38e to restrict the leftward movement of the latch member 64. The latch member 64 is formed at its generally middle section with an opening 64a into which the striker portion 62 of the operation handle 60 is inserted upon a certain condition of the locking mechanism. As is seen.from Fig. 10, a claw portion 78.having a tapered lower surface 78a is formed on a wall 80 of the opening 64a, leaving two spaced clearances 82 and 84 at its sides. As is seen fromFig. 2, the leading end of the claw portion 78 extends toward the top of the rod shaped latch member 64.The claw portion 78 is so sized to smoothly enter in the opening 62a of the striker portion 62. The second link 50 has a pair of tapered projections 50a see Fig. 9 which project in the opposed directions from the link 50. A pair of catching arms 86 constructed of elastic resilient material, such as a rigid plastics, are secured to the bracket 54 in such a manner that respective recesses 86a formed in the catching arms 86 are capable of catching the tapered projections 50a of the link 50 when the link 50 assumes a certain position, that is, when the first and second links 46 and 50 are fully expanded. Operation will be described in the following with reference to Fig. 2. For easy understanding of the operation, the description of it will commence with respect to a condition wherein the hinged window 12 is locked in its closed position, as is indicated by solid lines in Fig. 2. In this condition, the claw portion 78 of the latch member 64 is received in and engaged with the opening 62a of the striker portion 62 thereby suppressing the striker portion 62 and thus the operation handle 60 from moving toward the window 12. When it is required to unlock and open the hinged window 12, the head of the latch member 64 is pushed against the biasing force of the spring 70 causing the claw portion 78 of the latch member 64 to be disengaged from the opening 62 of the striker portion 62. With the latch member 6 being kept in this condition, the operation handle is shifted outwardly withdrawing the head of the sier portion 62 from the opening 64c of the latch member 64. This movement of the operation hcla 60 induces expansion of the first and second links 46 and 50 thereby moving the hinged window 12 toward its fully open position.When the window 12 comes to the fully open position as indicated by phantom lines, the tapered projections 50a of the second link 50 are brought into engagement with the corresponding recesses 86a of the catching arms 86. With this, the window 12 is held in its fully open position. When, then, it is required to close and lock the window 12, the operation handle 60 is strongly pulled inwardly, that is toward the inside of the vehicle for disengaging the tapered projections 50a of the second link 50 from the recesses 86a of the catching arms 86. The movement of the operation handle 60 toward the vehicle inside induces movement of the hinged window 12 toward its closed position, folding the first and second links 46 to 50. During this movement, the head of the striker portion 62 comes to contact with the tapered lower surface 78a of the claw portion 78 of the latch member 64 and slides on the same, moving the latch member 54 rightward in Fig. 2 against the biasing force of the spring 70.When the striker portion 62 comes to a csion where the opening 62a thereof is aligned with the claw portion 78 of the latch member 64, the claw portion 78 is thrust into the opening 62a of the striker portion 62 by the action of the spring 70 thereby locking the striker portion 62.With this operation, the window 12 is locked in its closed position. Now, it should be notd that the closing and locking operation of the window 12 can be made by a person who stands outside of the vehicle. In fact, when the window 12 is pushed toward the inside of the vehicle by a hand or hands of a person who stands outside of the vehicle, the striker portion 62 which moves together with the window 12 describes the same path as in the 90a of the partition wall 90. As is seen from Fig.12, the lever 94 is provided at the base portion thereof with a projection 94d which is engageable with another projection 92b of the operation handle 92 to restrict the rotation of the lever 94 in the clockwise direction in Fig. 12. A coil spring 18 is disposed about the pivot shaft 96 with its both ends respectively engaged with the wing 94b and the operation handle 92, so that the generally V shaped lever 94 is biased to rotate in the clockwise direction, that is, in the direction to bring the project on 94d of the lever 94 into engagement with the projection 92b of the operation handle 92. The outer surface of the hook 94c is tapered as shown. With this construction of the second embodiment, the operation of the same is as follows. For easy understanding of the operation, the explanation of it will commence with respect to a condition wherein the hinged window 12 is locked in its closed position, as is indicated by solid lines in Fig. 12. In this condition, the hook 94c of the lever 94 is received in and thus engaged with the opening 90a of the partition wall 90 of the base member 38, thereby locking the window 12 against the movement toward the open position. When it is required to unlock and open the hinged window 12, the wing 94b of the lever 94 is pressed above mentioned case. Referring to Figs. 11 to 14, especially Fig. 11, there is shown a second embodiment of the present invention.In these drawings, substantially the same parts as those in the first embodiment are designated by the same numerals. The locking mechanism 88 of this second embodiment comprises a base member 38 secured to the vehicle body inner panel 14. First and second links 116 and 50 and a bracket 54 are constructed and arranged in substantially the same manner cs ifl the case of the first embodiment.A partition wal C is spanned between the side walls 38b and 38c at a position near the leading end of the base member 38. or the reason which will become apparent hereinafter, the partition wall 90 is formed with an opening 90a. An operation handle 92 is secured at one end to the bracket 54 which is secured to the hinged window 12. The handle 92 is formed at its generally middle section with a pair of spaced supporting lugs 92a.A generally V shaped lever 94 having angled two wings 94a and 94b is pivotally mounted at its base portion on the supporting lugs 92 through a pivot shaft 96.The wing 94a is formed at its head with a hook 94c which is engageable with the above mentioned opening toward the handle 92 against the biasing force of the spring 98, causing the hook 94c of the lever 94 to be disengaged from the opening 90a of the partition wall 90. With the lever 94 being kept in this condition, the operation handle 92 is moved outwardly separting the hoo 94c from the partition wall 90.This movement of the operation handle 92 induces expansion of the first and second links 46 and 50 thus moving the hinged window 12 toward its fully open position When the window 12 comes to the fully open position as indicated by phantom lines, the projoetions 50a of the second link 50 are brci into engagement with the corresponding recesses 86a of the catching arms 86. With this, the window 12 is held in the fully open position. When it is required to close and lock the window 12, the operation handle 92 is strongly pulled toward the inside of the vehicle for disengaging the projections 50a of the second link 50 from the corresponding catching recesses 86a. The movement of the operation handle 92 toward the vehicle inside induces movement of the hinged window 12 toward the close position, folding up the first and second links 46 and 50. During these movements, the tapered outer surface of the hook 94c of the lever 94 comes to contact with a free end of the partition wall 90 and slides on the same, rotating in the counterclockwise direction against the biasing force of the spring 98.When the hook 94c come to a position to align with the opening 90a of the partition wall 90, the hook 90a is thrust into the opening 90a by the action of the spring 98 thus locking the lever 94 and thus the window 12 in its closed position. It should be noted that, simialr to the first embodiment, the closing and locking operation of the window 12 can be made from the outside of the vehicle. In fact, moving the window 12 toward its closed position causes the generally V shaped lever 94 to describe the same path as in the above mentioned case. As is apparent from the above description, the following advantages are given from the present invention, which are 1 Since the dangerous parts, such as the inwardly projectable first and scond links 46 and 50 are covered by the stationary base member 38, there is no possibility of hitting a passenger s body against such dangerous parts. 2 Since the locking mechanism of the present invention is so constructed as to achieve the locking of the hinged window 12 not only from the inside but also from the outside of the vehicle, it offers convenience in handling the hinged window.