# Process for microbial transformation using immobilised cells, and immobilised cell systems.

## Abstract
This invention comprises a process for the microbial transformation, e.g., oxidation, esterification or hydro lysis, of a substantially water immiscible organic sub strate wherein a microorganism species capable of effect ing the required transformation of said substrate is located on a porous, water bearing, particulate inert support, suitably an inorganic oxide, the pore size being greater than the mean diameter of the micro organism, thereby forming an immobilised system in which the micro organism has an aqueous environment, and the immobilised system is contacted with the substrate and a source of the appropriate reactant, such as oxygen, acid and alcohol or water. The invention includes also an immobilised cell system suitable for use in the foregoing process com prising a micro organism capable of transforming a sub stantially water immiscible substrate supported on a porous, water bearing particulate inert support having a pole size greater than the mean diameter of the micro organism.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for the microbial transformation of a substanti ally water immiscible organic substrate, wherein a micro organism species capable of effecting the required trans formation of said substrate is located on a porous, water bearing, particulate inert support, the pore size being greater than the mean diameter of the micro organism, thereby forming an immobilised system in which the micro organism has an aqueous environment, and the immobilised system is contacted with the substrate and a source of the appropriate reactant. 2. Process as claimed in claim 1 wherein the substrate is oxidised, esterified or hydrolysed by contact with an appropriate immobilised system and a source of, respectively, oxygen, acid and alcohol or water. 3. Process as claimed in claim 2 wherein an aliphatic hydro carbon substrate is oxidised by contact with an immobilised system containing a micro organism species capable of oxidising said substrate and a source of oxygen. 4. Process as claimed in claim 3 wherein oxidation beyond the corresponding alkanol is inhibited by the addition of a different alcohol. 5. Process as claimed in claim 3 or 4 wherein the microorganism is Pseudomonas aeruginosa. 6. Process as claimed in claim 5 wherein the particle size of the inert support is at least 1 mm. 7. Process as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the inert support is an inorganic oxide. 8. Process as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the pore size of the inert support is greater than 0.5 micron. 9. Process as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the support surface is provided with a lipophilic coating. 10. Process as claimed in any one of the preceding claims where in the location of the micro organisms onto the support is effected by subjecting the support particles to reduced pressure, applying a paste of the micro organisms to the support whilst maintaining the reduced pressure, and subse quently restoring atmospheric pressure. 11. Process as claimed in any one of claims 2 10 wherein the source of oxygen is a gaseous mixture containing between 21 and 75 by vol. of oxygen. 12. An immobilised cell system suitable for use in the process of any one of the preceding claims, which comprises a micro organism capable of transforming a substantially water immiscible substrate supported on a porous, water bearing, particulate inert support having a pore size greater than the mean diameter of the micro organism.

## Description
Process for microbial transformation using immobilised cells and immobilised cell systems This invention relates to the microbial transformation of organic substrates, and in particular to the use of cells in an immobilised system to effect the transformation of a substantially water immiscible organic substrate. Micro organisms are known to be able to effect a variety of commercially useful chemical transformations in a highly selective manner at, or near, ambient temperature and pressure. However, the majority of the industrially attractive feedstocks are highly apolar and hence substantially immiscible with water, whilst the micro organisms themselves require an aqueous environment and cannot survive in an organic apolar medium. Hitherto, this need for two immiscible phases has been resolved by the use of an emulsion containing the desired organic substrate as one phase and a second aqueous phase containing the appropriate micro organism.However, such two phase emulsion systems introduce a number of practical problems including the risk of physical damage to the microbial cells resulting from the shear forces required to maintain the emulsion, and of chemical damage from any surfactants which may be used to stabilise the emulsion with minimal physical force. Furthermore, the mixing in such an emulsion exposes the cells to the deleterious effects of direct contact with the organic phase, and at the same time increases the practical problems involved in separating the desired organic product from the intimate mixture of organic and aqueous cellcontaining phases in the emulsion. It has now been found that these problems can be circumvented or mitigated by the use of an immobilised microbial system in which the micro organism is located in the water filled pores of a porous particulate support. In this immobilised system, the micro organism can be introduced into the potentially hostile medium of a water immiscible organic liquid, whilst it continues to enjoy the aqueous microenvironment formed by the water held in the pores of the support material. Thus, the micro organism is sheltered from the deleterious consequences of direct contact with the apolar organic liquid. However, no two liquids are wholly immiscible and the organic phase therefore transfers to a limited extent into the aqueous phase. There it is exposed to the biochemical action of the micro organism, and the organic products thus formed will selectively transfer back into the organic phase in consequence of their greater affinity for that phase, i.e. their partition coefficients will favour the organic phase.Thus, a further potential benefit of this immobilised system is that reaction products are extracted from the microbial environment into the organic phase before they can assume a concentration high enough to endanger the continued biochemical activity of the microorganism, and also before they experience further transformation to other, less desired products. Thus the present invention comprises a process for the microbial transformation of a substantially water immiscible organic substrate wherein a micro organism species capable of effecting the required transformation of said substrate is located on a porous, water bearing, particulate inert support, the pore size being greater than the mean diameter of the micro organism, thereby forming an immobilised system in which the micro organism has an aqueous environment, and the immobilised system is contacted with the substrate and a source of the appropriate reactant.Many micro organisms are known to have the capability of transforming various organic substrates and in principle any such micro organism may be used in the process of this invention. In practice the choice of micro organism will naturally be dictated by the nature of the substrate and the transformation which it is desired to effect. Microbial transformations which can be effected by the process of this invention include oxidation, esterification and ester hydrolysis, which are carried out in the presence of a source of, respectively, oxygen, acid and alcohol or water.One useful application of the present process is in the oxidation of an aliphatic hydrocarbon, and a micro organism suitable for such oxidations is the known species Pseudomonas aeruginosa 473, which is capable of oxidising an alkane to the corresponding l alkanol and a l alkene to the corresponding 1,2epoxy alkane. This organism was first described by Thijsse and van derLinden in 1958 Ant. v. Leeuwenhoek 24, 298 1958 , and has the following morphological and biochemical characteristics Cell morphology Medium rodsColonial morphology Off white with a greenish tinge. Flat, smooth, entire with a slight margin, circular, translucent. C grouth 45 C 50 C Catalyse Oxidase, Kovacs O F glucose oxidativeGram negativePyocyanin Fluorescence Penicillin GStreptomycin Chlorophenicol Tetracycline NovobiocinPolymyxin B 0 129Levan The support material should naturally be chemically and biologically inert under the conditions of use, and suitable materials are inorganic oxides such as silica, alumina, zirconia, magnesia and mixtures thereof. The achievement of an effective activity in the immobilised microbial cells is dependent on the size of the pores in the support particles being above a critical minimum, and as indicated above this should be greater than the mean diameter of the micro organism, which normally requires a pore size greater than 0.5 micron. The size of the support particles often influences the activity of the immobilised system, larger particles yielding a higher activity.The precise combination of pore size and particle size required to achieve maximum microbial biochemical activity will naturally depend on the micro organism involved, the detailed chemistry and morphology of the support material, and the nature of the substrate in the case of Pseudomonas aeruginosa supported on alumina, and used in the oxidation of methylcyclohexane, it has been found that the highest levels of activity and longevity are attained when the particle size is at least 1 mm, and especially at least 6 mm. It has also been found that in many cases the activity and longevity of the cells located on the support can be enhanced if the support surface has a lipophilic coating. In the case of silica supports, such a coating may be applied by acid treatment followed by silylation of the hydroxyl groups thereby exposed. Alternatively the support may be impregnated with a polymer such as polystyrene. The location of the cells onto the support may be carried out by a variety of techniques, but two procedures have been found to be generally suitable. In one technique the microbial cells are cultivated by established methods in a fermenter so as to yield a paste of the required cells. The support particles are subjected to a reduced pressure, the cell paste applied to the support whilst maintaining the reduced pressure, and atmospheric pressure then restored so as to force the paste into the pores. An alternative technique is that of growth in situ, in which the particulate carrier is suspended in a suitable growth medium, which is then inoculated with the desired organism.The inoculated, support containing growth medium is then incubated under appropriate conditions to provide for growth of the organism, and after a suitable period, free cells are removed by washing to leave the cell containing immobilised system. In a variation of this technique, fresh growth medium containing an assimilable source of carbon and nitrogen may be continuously fed into the reactor during immobilisation to provide suitable conditions for attachment. The yield of the desired product can often be enhanced by the addition to the organic phase of a compound which reduces the ability of the micro organism to progress the transformation beyond the desired stage. Thus, oxidation of a hydrocarbon to an alkanol may be improved by the addition to the organic phase of a different alcohol without being limited by any particular mechanism it is believed that the alcohol serves to saturate the dehydrogenase enzyme site in the micro organism and thereby minimise further oxidation of the desired product alcohol.Suitable alcohols for this inhibitory function include nonanol and methanol, though in the latter case the concentration should not be so high as to lead to inhibition of the micro organism. It has also been found that oxidation of the substrate under conditions of oxygen limitation which will often apply is influenced by the concentration of oxygen in the ambient atmosphere to which the culture system is exposed, and that although an increase in oxygen partial pressure produces an increased conversion of substrate to oxidised product, there is a limit to this effect beyond which increased oxygen concentration becomes inhibitory. Preferably the concentration of oxygen should exceed the 21 present in the atmosphere but not be greater than 75 . The invention is illustrated in the following Examples.Example 1 Pseudomonas aeruginosa 473 was grown in a Biotec fermentor using either batch culture in ASM medium with heptane vapour as carbon source, or continuous culture in AM 2 medium with 0.33 g l polypropylene glycol 2000 as antifoam, heptane vapour as carbon source and a stirring speed of 600 rpm. This organism was then immobilised on a particulate support by further growth in the presence of the support using the following procedure. The composition of the media were as follows Composition of medium ASM G 1 1NH4Cl 0.535KH2PO4 0.531Na2HP04 0.866K2SO4 0.174MgS04 7H20 0.037CaCl2 2H2O 0.00735FeS04 7H20 o.oo6g together with lml per litre of the following mineral salts solution ZnS04 7H20 1.44 gram 51 4 4H20 1.12H3BO3 0.309CuSO4 3H2O 0.624 Na2MoO4 2H20 0.242CoCl2 6H2O 0.238KI 0.415IM H2SO4 5 mlComposition of medium AM 2 g 1 1 NH4 2S04 1.45H3P04 90 1.09MgS04 7H20 0.099CaCl2 2H2O 0.015FeSO4 7H2O 0.02 together with 2 ml per litre of the mineral salts solution defined above. 50 ml of ASM medium containing 20 g of the selected support particles in a centre well flask were inoculated with P.a. and incubated for 3 days at 30 C in a Grant ehaker at 100 strokes per minute. After this growth period the support was washed with 0.1.M. phosphate buffer pH 6.8 , the support particles removed and surplus, external water removed by drying on tissue paper. The cell loading present in the resultant immobilised cell system was determined by heating lg. of cell loaded particles to 800C in 5 ml of 2 sodium carbonate in 0.1 N aqueous sodium hydroxide for 22 hours, followed by protein analysis according to the procedure of Folin Ciocalteu Methods in Enzymology Ed. Colowick Kaplan, Vol III, p.447 Acad. Press Inc. N.Y. 1957 . lOg of the immobilised cell system thus obtained were added to 15 ml of methylcyclohexane saturated with water in a 250 ml stoppered conical flask. This was agitated in an orbital shaker at 105 rpm and 300C, 0.1 ml samples taken at defined intervals and, after addition of 0.5 ml of a 0.3 g l solution of 1 1hydroxy ethylcyclohexane in isooctane as internal reference, analysed by g.l.c. using a Chromosorb WHP glass column of 6 ft at 750C with nitrogen as carrier gas at 30 ml min and a flame ionisation detector. The results obtained with a selection of support materials are shown in Table 1 below. TABLE 1 EMI8.1 Support SEP Material SEP SA SEP 5202 SEP SA SEP 5205 SEP SA SEP 5221 SEP SA SEP 5239 SEP SS SEP 5231 tb Chemical SEP Composition SEP 99.6 SEP Al2O3 SEP 86 SEP Al2O3 SEP 89 SEP Al2O3 SEP 86 SEP Al2O3 SEP 95 SEP sio2 tb Pore SEP Size SEP micron SEP 0.5 SEP SEP 4 SEP 50 SEP SEP 300 SEP 10 SEP SEP 30 SEP 1 2 50 SEP SEP 200 SEP 1 2 15 SEP SEP 100 tb Apparent SEP Porosity SEP SEP 54 SEP SEP 60 SEP 49 SEP SEP 55 SEP 47 SEP SEP 52 SEP 53 SEP SEP 65 SEP 34 SEP SEP 38 tb Surface SEP area SEP mê g SEP 0.7 SEP SEP 1.3 SEP 0.005 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.02 SEP SEP 0.07 SEP 0.15 SEP SEP 0.45 SEP 0.1 SEP SEP 0.4 tb Attrition SEP resistance SEP SEP 68 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 8 tb Immobilisation SEP time SEP days SEP 6 SEP 3 SEP 6 SEP 3 SEP 6 SEP 3 SEP 6 SEP 6 tb Cell SEP loading SEP x10 3 SEP 0.4 SEP 0.4 SEP 0.8 SEP 0.54 SEP 1 SEP 0.6 SEP 1 SEP 0.13 tb Formation SEP of SEP product SEP x10 3 SEP 4 SEP 7 SEP 1 SEP 3.4 SEP 1.8 SEP 3.0 SEP 1.0 SEP 2.0 tb Biocatalyst SEP lifetime SEP h SEP 110 SEP 80 SEP 120 SEP 100 SEP 120 SEP 50 SEP 90 SEP 20 tb All support materials were obtained from the Norton Company and are identified by the reference number allocated by Norton. Attrition resistance is determined as the percentage weight loss after shaking for 6 days in Grant shaker at 180 strokes per minute in water. Cell loading is expressed as grams dry cells per gram support. Product formation is expressed as gram methylcyclohexanol formed per gram dry cells per hour, integrated over a period of 50 hours.Example II The influence of the particle size of the support material was evaluated by selecting closely defined ranges of particle size and assessing the cell loading and activity attained using procedures as described in Example I. The results obtained are set out in Table 2 below. TABLE 2 Particle size Loading ActivitySupport mm g dry cells g products h 1 Life time h g support 1 g dry cells 1 SA 5221 6 7 1.2 X 10 3 6 X 10 3 140SA 5221 1 2 0.65 X 10 3 2.2 X 10 3 100SA 5221 0.6 1 1.5 X 10 3 4.2 X 10 3 140SA 5221 0.3 0.6 1.1 X 10 3 3.6 X 10 3 100SA 5205 7 8 0.28 X 10 3 4 X 10 3 80SA 5205 1 2 0.39 X 10 3 2 X 10 3 50SA 5205 0.6 1 0.5 X 10 3 2.4 X 10 3 100SA 5205 0.3 0.6 0.1 X 10 3 10 X 10 3 130 Example III The influence of the procedure adopted for loading the support particles with the micro organism cells was evaluated by comparing th, owth in situ procedure described in Example I with the following alternatives. In all cases the support material was Norton alumina SA 5221 of particle size 6 7 mm, and the micro organism was P.a.a Adsorption from concentrated cell suspension. 50 ml of O.IM phosphate buffer pH 6.8 containing approx. 10 g of dry cells l was shaken with 20 g of support beads for 2 3 days in a Grant shaker at 100 strokes per minute.b Vacuum immobilisation. 30 40 g of support beads were evacu ated in a 300 ml septum sealed Buchner flask to approx. 0.7 k Pa. 0.2 ml per gram of support of a concentrated suspension of micro organism cells in 0.1 M phosphate buffer pH 6.8 was then introduced with a syringe through the septum. After shaking the mixture thoroughly the vacuum was released suddenly. In each case the loaded support particles were superficially dried with tissue paper, and assessed for their ability to oxidise methylcyclohexane to the corresponding alcohol as described in Example I. The results are set out in Table 3 below. TABLE 3Immobilisation Growth in situ Adsorption from VacuumMethod concn. suspension AdsorptionRate of product 4.4 17.5 13.2 formation mole hr g dry cells Example IV The applicability of the immobilised cell system in the transformation of different water immiscible organic substrates was evaluated by replacing the methylcyclohexane of Example 1 with n heptane, l octene, D,L menthylacetate or with hexanol hexanonic acid. In the case of menthyl acetate hydrolysis the micro organism used was Bacillus subtilis T372 NCIB 11705 in the other cases it was Pseudomonas aeruginosa 473. For some of these systems comparative experiments were carried out using free cells as 2m1 of cell suspension in phosphate buffer 0.1M ph6.8 in 5ml of the relevant organic phase.Some experiments were also carried out in which the organic substrate was used as a solution in isooctane. In those cases using an immobilised system the support material was Norton alumina SA 5221 loaded by vacuum immobilisation to give a cell loading of about 7xl03g dry cells g of support, except in the esterification experiments where the cell loading was 11.2xlO 3g dry cells g of support.The experimental conditions and procedures were otherwise as described in Ex.l. The results obtained are set out in Table 4 below. TABLE 4Subtrate s Product Reaction Rate of Product formation Catalyst System mole hr g. dry cells, lifetime integrated over first hr 50 hrs Heptane 100 1 Heptanol Immobilised 16 200 1 Octene 100 1,2 epoxyoctane 22 300 20 29 300 100 Free 0 5 20 Free 24 300D,L menthyl acetate 100 Menthol Immobilised 31 185 Free 27 80 10 Immobilised 13 185 10 Free 20 185Hexanol 1 Hexanoic Acid 0.66 n hexyl n Free 80 60 hexanoate 1 0.66 Immobilised 80 60 4 2.7 Free 310 50 4 2.7 Immobilised 200 70 7 4.7 Free 370 70 7 4.7 Immobilised 260 100 10 6.6 Free 440 70 10 6.6 Immobilised 340 100 Substrate used either pure 100 , or in isooctane solution, when Vol in isooctane Reaction complete. No substrate left. Example V In the oxidation of an aliphatic hydrocarbon to the corresponding alcohol, the influence on productivity of a different alcohol in the organic phase was determinal by two experiments.P.a. was vacuum immobilised onto Norton SA 5221 alumia particle size 1 2 mm following a procedure similar to that desribed in ExIII b , to give an immobilised system having a cell loading of 0.86 x 10 3g dry cells g support. This was then evaluated following the general procedure described in Example 1 and using, as substrate, heptane containing varying amounts of l nonanol. A similar experiment was also carried out using, as substrate, methylcyclohexane containing varying amounts of methanol. The results of these two experiments are shown in Tables 5 and 6 respectively. TABLE 5 Initial rate of ProductNonanol Conc. Formation g hr g dry cells Lifetime hr 0.1 0.4 x 10 3 50 0.5 1.4 x 10 3 150 1.0 3.7 x 10 3 z 150 x integrated over the first 50 hours TABLE 6 Product formationMethanol Added g hr g dry cells Lifetime hr 0 3 x 10 3 100 0.05 5.8 x 10 3 90 0.1 5.8 x 10 3 90 0.2 4.0 x 10 3 90 0.23 2.6 x 10 3 60 0.5 1.9 x 10 3 20 1 1.05 x 10 3 20 ExamPle VI The influence of the ambient oxygen concentration on the productivity of an immobilised system was evaluated using P.a.vacuum immobilised onto Norton SA 5221 alumina cell loading 3.2 x 10 3g dry cells g support . This system was assessed for ability to oxidise methylcyclohexane to the corresponding alcohol using a procedure similar to that described in Example 1 but employing differing oxygen levels the results are set out inTable 7. TABLE 7 Initial rate of ProductOxygen Concn. Formation g hr g dry cells Lifetime hr 21 1.8 x 10 3 120 50 3.0 x 10 3 120 75 4.6 x 10 3 120 100 2.7 x 10 3 120 x integrated over the first 50 hours Example VII The effect of a lipophilic support coating was evaluated as follows a Acid treatment of silica 100 g of Norton Silica SS 5131 of bead size 7 8 mm was refluxed in 150 ml of 0.6 M sulphuric acid for 24 h. After increasing the acidity to 1.2 M the mixture was refluxed for another 3 days. After cooling, the beads were washed with tapwater for 48 hours and subsequently dried at 1000C for 17 h.This procedure resulted in a surface hydroxylated 2 silica with approx. 3 hydroxyl groups nm as determined by differential thermal analysis and a surface area of 2 1 0.7 m g as determined by BET . b Silylation of rehydrated silica 30 g of rehydrated silica was refluxed with 3.55 x 10 mole of a compound with general compositionEMI18.1 in 30 ml toluene for 19 hr. under a nitrogen atmosphere. Subsequently the support was washed with toluene in a Soxlet apparatus for 24 h. After drying at 1000C for 24 h, the carbon content of the support was determined by micro ele mental analysis. c Polystyrene coating of supPort 40 g of Norton Silica SS 5131 was refluxed for 1 hr in 100 ml toluene containing 4 g of expandable polystyrene. After cooling and superficial drying with tissue paper, this material was dried at 1000C for 24 h. The carbon content of this material as determined by micro elemental analysis corresponds with 16 molecules of styrene 2 An identical experiment with 16 g of expandable polystyrene in 100 ml of toluene resulted in a support containing 280 molecules of styrene nm d The modified support particles prepared by the above pro cedures were then coated with Pseudomonas aeruginosa using the vacuum immobilisation technique as described in ExampleIII b , and the resulting immobilised systems assessed for their ability to oxidise methylcyclohexane to the corresponding alcohol as described in Example I. The results are set out in Table 8 below. TABLE 8Support rate of product formation b Lifetime Cell loadingCoating mole h 1 g dry cells 1 h g dry cells. g support 1 R1 R2 R3 Uncoated 1.8 60 7.4 x 10 3OC2H5 CH2 3NH2 OC2H5 0.4 40 8.9 x 10 3OC2H5 Phenyl Phenyl 1.8 140 3.6 x 10 3OC2H5 Phenyl OC2H5 3.1 140 2.1 x 10 3OC2H5 CH2 7CH3 0C2H5 4.3 120 1.0 x 10 3OC2H5 CH2 11CH3 OC2H5 8.5 120 1.8 x 10 3OC2H5 CH2 17CH3 OC2H5 6.5 120 2.2 x 10 3Phenyl CH CH2 Phenyl 2.2 140 1.9 x 10 3 Polystyrene coated 4.8 140 1.8 x 10 3 Polystyrene coated 7.5 140 1.1 x 10 3