# A process for the hydroformylation of olefins.

## Abstract
A process for the hydroformylation of less reactive olefins with hydrogen and carbon monoxide in the presence of a hydroformylation catalyst which has been modified by a ligand of formula L OR¹ OR² OR³ , where in L represents P or As and R¹, R² and R³ are dis similar aryl groups provided that at least one of R¹, R² and R³ is a group

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for the hydroformylaton of olefins, which comprises reacting an olefin containing the groupEMI10.1 or the groupEMI10.2 wherein R represents a hydrocarbyl group and the valence bond shewn forms part of a hydrocarbyl group, or R together with the valence bond shown represents a ring structure having at least 5 carbon atoms in the ring, with carbon monoxide and hydrogen in the prerence of a hydroformylation catalyst which has been modified by a ligand according to the general formula L ORÚ ORê OR wherein L represents a phosphorus or arsen moiety and R1, R2 and R3 represent dis similar aryl groups provided that at least one ofRÚ, Rê and R represents a groupEMI10.3 wherein Q represents a groupEMI10.4 or a groupEMI10.5 wherein each R4 which may be the same or different represents an optionally fluorine containing hydrocarbyl group, R5 represents a hydrogen atom or a group R4, and R6 represents a hydrogen atom or an inert substituent on the meta and or peraposition of the ring, whilst X represents as oxygen or sulphur atom and n is 0 or 1, andR7 represents a hydrogen atom or an inert substituent. 2. A process according to claim 3, wherein a ss alkyl substituted acyclic alpha olefin is used as the starting material. 3. A process according to claim 2, wherein 2 methyl 1 hexene is used as the starting material. 4. A process according to claim 1, wherein a ss alkyl substituted a olefin containing also a cyclic substituent in the molecule is used as the starting material. 5. A process according to claim 4, wherein limonene is used as the starting material. 6. A process according to claim 1 wherein a cyclic olefin having either a methylene group or an unsubstituted double bond in the molecule is used as the starting material. 7. A process according to claim 6, wherein methylenecyclohexane is used. 8. A process according to claim 6, wherein cyclohexene is used. 9. A process according to any one of the preceding claims wherein a modified Group VIII metal catalyst, preferably a rhodium catalyst is used. 10. A process according to claim 9, wherein a modified rhodium catalyst is used. 11. A process according to claim 9 or 10, wherein a catalyst is used which has been modified by a phosphite according to the general formula L ORÚ ORê OR wherein at least one of the groupsRÚ, Rê and R represents an ortho substituted phenyl group whereinR4 represents a C1 C6 alkyl group, R5 represents a hydrogen atom or a C1 6 group, R6 represents a hydrogen atom, a fluorine or chlorine atom, a C1 20 alkyl or C1 20 alkoxy group and n is 0 or 1 is which case X represents an oxygen or sulphur atom, and R7 represents a hydrogen, fluorine or chlorine atom or a C16 alkyl or C 6 alkoxy group. 12. A process according to claim 11, wherein a catalyst is used which has been modified by a phosphite containing an ortho substituted phenyl group wherein R4 represents a methyl or ethyl group, R5 represints a hydrogen atom or a methyl group, R6 represents a hydrogen atom or a methyl, ethyl or octyl group and n is 0, and R7 represents a hydrogen atom. 13. A process according to claim 12, wherein a catalyst is used which has been modified by tris 2 t.butylphenyl phosphite or tris 2 t.butyl 4 methylphenyl phosphite. 14. A process according to any one of claims 11 13, wherein the phosphite is used in a metal phosphorus ratio of from 1 2 to 1 100. 15. A process according to claim 15, wherein a metal phosphorus ratio between 1 4 and 1 20 is used. 16. A process according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the process is carried out at a temperature in the range of from 500C to 2000C. 17. A process according to claim 12, wherein a temperature between 800C and 1300C is used. 18. A process according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the process is carried out under a pressure between 300 and 3500 kPa. 19. A process as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein a molar ratio of catalyst to olefin between 1 5000 and 1 100 is used. 20. A process as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, substantially as hereinbefore described with particular reference to the numbered Examples. 21. Products whenever prepared by a process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 20.

## Description
A PROCESS FOR THE HYDROFORMYLATION OF OLEFINS The present invention relates to a process for the hydroformylation of olefins using a modified Group VIII metal catalyst. It is known that the hydroformylation reaction can be performed with good results using catalysts which comprise a GroupVIII metal compound which also contains a phosphorus or arsen moiety. In general, preference is given to the use of phosphorus compounds, especially of trialkyl or triarylphosphines or phosphites as ligands in the catalytic hydroformylation of olefins. It should be noted, however, that there is a vast difference in reactivity between various olefins under similar reaction conditions using an identical catalytic system. It is also known that the organo phosphorus ligands may exert a distinct influence on the selectivity of the hydroformylation reaction when the same olefin is applied as the substrate. For instance, it is known from the article by Pruett and Smith J. Drg. Chem., Vol. 34, 1969 ,No. 2, pp 307 330 that in the hydroformylation of 1 octene with trisubstituted phosphorus containing ligands, an aliphatic substituent gives a lower percentage of straight chain or normal aldehyde than an aromatic substituent. However, the selectivity between various aromatic ligands, phosphines as well as phosphites does not seem to differ markedly.From German Auslegeschrift 2039938 it appears that the hydroformylation of 1 hexane using a rhodium catalyst modified with various aromatic phosphites gives about the same yield and selectivity whereas the conversion using a catalyst comprising the unsubstituted aromatic phosphite, i.e.triphenyl phosphite, is at least 10 higher. It has now been found that a certain class of olefins which can be regarded as markedly less reactive olefins compared with olefins such as 1 octene and 1 hexene can be hydroformylated at high rates and with good selectivity using Group VIII metal catalysts modified with specific aromatic phosphites. The present invention therefore relates to a process for the hydroformylation of olefins which comprises reacting an olefin containing the groupEMI2.1 or the groupEMI2.2 wherein R represents a hydrocarbyl group and the valence bond shown forms part of a hydrocarbyl group, or R together with the valence bond shown represents a ring structure having at least 5 carbon atoms in the ring, with carbon monoxide and hydrogen in the presence of a hydroformylation catalyst which has been modified by a ligand according to the general formula L ORÚ ORê OR wherein L represents a phosphorus or arsen moiety and R1, R2 and R3 represent dis similar aryl groups provided that at least one of 1 2 and 3R , R and R represents a group EMI2.3 tb SEP R6 SEP wherein tb SEP wherein tb SEP Q SEP r tb or SEP a SEP group SEP R7 tb Q represents a groupEMI2.4 wherein each R4 which may be the same or different represents an optionally fluorine containing hydrocarbyl group, R5 represents a hydrogen atom or a group R4, and R6 represents a hydrogen atom or an inert substituent on the meta and or para position of the ring, whilst X represents an oxygen or sulphur atom and n in 0 or 1, andR7 represents a hydrogen atom or an inert substituent.Examples of a class of olefins containing a groupEMI2.5 EMI2.6 in the molecule which can be suitably used as starting materials in the process according to the present invention comprise ss alkyl substituted acyclic a olefins such as 2 methyl1 butene, 2 methyl 1 pentene, 2 methyl 1 hexene, 2 ethyl 1 hexene, 2,3 dimethyl 1 butene, 2,3 dimethyl 1 pentene 2,3,3 trimethyl1 butene, 2,3 dimethyl 1 hexene, 2,5 dimethyl 1 hexene, 2 ethyl 3methyl 1 pentene, 2,6 dimethyl 1 heptene as well as ss alkyl substituted a olefins which contain a further S substituted double bond such as 2,4 dimethyl 1,4 butadiene and isononadiene 2,6 dimethyl 1,5 heptadiene . The latter compound is of interest as a starting material for citronellal. Darticularly preferred as starting olefins are 2 methyl 1 hexene or 2 methyl 1 heptene. Another class of olefins which can be used suitably comprises ss alkyl substituted alpha olefins which contain also a structure in the molecule which may or may not contaii additional double bonds. Examples of such compounds comprise isopropenylcyclopentane, isopropenylcyclohexane, isobutenylcyclopentane, isobutenylcyclohexane, isopropenylbenzene a methylstyrene and isobutenylbenzene as well as isoalkenylcycloalkenes provided the double bond in the ring stricture comprises at least a lower alkyl group such as limonene 1 methyl 4 isopropenyl 1 cyclohexene , Also compounds comprising a further 6 substituted double bond such as 1,4 diisonLopenyl cyclohexane can be used.If desired the ring structure nay be substituted by one or more inert substituents such as fluorine, chlorine or alkyl groups as well as hydroxy groups not connected to or neighbouring a carbon atom forming part of a double c id. Typical examples comprise 1 isopropenyl 4 chlorocyclohexane and plinol 1 isopropenyl 2,3 dimethyl 3 hydroxycyclopentane.Preferred as starting materials of this type are the isopropenylcycloalkanes and isopropenylcycloalkenes, especially limonene. A further class of olefins which can be used suitably comprises cyclic olefins having either a methylene grop in the molecule or an unsubstituted double bond in the molecule. Examples of such olefins comprise methylenecyclopentane, methylenecyclohexane, cyclopentene, cyclohexene, cyclooctene, 1,4 dihydronaphthalene, 1,2 dihydronaphthalen 1 dihydroindane, 2,3 dihydroindane, 6,7 dihydro 5H benzocyclohexane and 8,9 dehydro 5H benzocycloheptene. Good results have been obtained using methylenecyclohexane and cyclohexene. The process according to the present invention is carried out in the presence of a modified group VIII metal catalyst. Suitable.Group VIII metals comprise rhodium and iridium, preference being given to the use of rhodium as the Group VIII metal in the hydroformylation catalyst. The amount of catalyst may vary within wide ranges, but generally the molar ratio of catalyst to olefin is in the range of from 1 10000 to 1 10, preferably between 1 5000 and 1 100. The modified catalyst comprises a complex of a Group VIII metal, carbon monoxide, an organic ligand, especially a phophite as defined hereinbefore and an anion to match the neutrality of the catalytic species. The catalyst can be prepared as such but it may also be formed in situ under the prevailing reaction conditions. Suitable starting materials comprise monovalent rhodium or iridium salts such as 1,5 cyclooctadienerhodium I acetate and 1,5 cyclooctadienerhodium I chloride. Chloride containing starting materials are preferably first treated with a chloride acceptor. As discussed hereinbefore, at least one of the groups RÚ, Rê and R in the phosphite L ORÚ ORê OR represents a specific ortho substituted phenyl group. The nature of this group is rather critical with respect to the hydroformylation of less reactive olefins. It has been found that the use of tris o tolyl phosphite gives only a very slow initial rate in the hydroformylation of 2 methyl 1 hexene comparable with the yield obtained by using the well known ligand triphenylphosphine and that no product could be found at all when tris 2,6 dimethylphenyl phosphite was used as the phosphorus ligand under the reaction conditions according to the present invention. Preference is given to the use of phosphites according to the general formula L ORI OR2 OR3 wherein the groups R1, R2 and R3 are identical, but dissimilar groups can also be used suitably. Examples of ortho substituted phenyl groups which can be suitably used comprise those wherein R4 represents a C16 alkyl group, R5 represents a hydrogen atom or a C 1 6 a lkyl group, R6 represents a hydrogen atom, a fluorine or chlorine atom, a C1 20 alkyl or C1 20 alkoxy group and n is 0 or 1 in which case X represents an oxygen or sulphur atom, and R7 represents a hydrogen, fluorine or chlorine atom or a C 1 6 alkyl or C 1 6 alkoxy group.Preference is given to the presence of ortho substituted phenyl groups wherein R4 represents a methyl or ethyl group, R5 represents a hydrogen atom or a methyl group, R6 represents a hydrogen atom or a methyl, ethyl or octyl group, n is 0, and R7 represents a hydrogen atom. Very good results have been obtained using tris 2 t.butylphenyl phosphite or tris 2 t.butyl 4 methylphenyl phosphite as the phosphorus ligand in the hydroformylation of various less reactive olefins, especially cyclohexene, limonene and methylenecyclohexane. The process according to the present invention is preferably conducted in the presence of an excess of the phosphite having the general formula L ORÚ ORê OR since such excess exerts a beneficial effect on the catalytic activity. Normally, metal phosphorus ratios of from 1 2 to 1 100 can be used, preference being given to ratios in the range of from 1 4 to 1 20. Generally the hydroformylation of the olefins as defined hereinbefore is carried out under rather mild conditions.Temperatures in the range of from 50 C to 200 C can be suitably applied, whilst temperatures in the range of from 80 C to 130 C are preferred. The pressure, which is the sum of the hydrogen and carbon monoxide pressure, is suitably in the range of from 200 to 5000 kPa, preferably between 300 and 3500 kPa, although lower or higher pressures are not excluded. Generally the molar ratio of hydrogen to carbon monoxide is in the range of from 1 2 to 12 1. Good results have been obtained using hydrogen and carbon monoxide in equimolar as well as in 2 1 molar ratios. The process according to the present invention may be conducted in the presence of an inert solvent. Examples of suitable solvents comprise saturated hydrocarbons such as pentane, hexane and higher alkanes, naphtha, kerosene, mineral oil, cyclopentane and cyclohexane, as well as the aromatic hydrocarbons such as benzene, toluene and the xylenes as well as ethers, ketones and nitriles. Also mixtures of solvents can be suitably applied. It is also possible to use an excess of the starting material as solvent. The process according to the invention can be readily carried out using well known chemical engineering practice which includes continuous, semi continuous and batch operation. The reaction time may vary between wide limits, from a couple of minutes to several hours depending on the specific olefin and phosphite applied. After the reaction the reaction mixture is worked up by techniques known in the art. The product aldehyde can be recovered by various means, e.g. by distillation. It is also possible to recycle part or all of the catalyst and the remaining reaction mixture. The invention will now be illustrated by means of the following Examples.EXAMPLE I A 100 ml stainless steel autoclave was charged with 20 ml benzene, in which were dissolved 0.02 mmol of 1,5 cyclooctadienerhodium I acetate and 0.2 mmol of tris 2 t.butylphenyl phosphite, under an atmosphere of argon and the autoclave was also charged with 10 mmol of 2 methyl 1 hexene. The autoclave was then pressurized with a 1 1 molar mixture of hydrogen and carbon monoxide and heated to 80 C, the pressure in the autoclave now being 1400 kPa. The autoclave was kept 1 h at the reaction temperature of 80 C and then cooled to ambient temperature. After venting the gases, the reaction product was analysed using gaschromatography and NMR. The product obtained contained the desired linear aldehyde 3 methylheptanal for more than 95 .The rate of the hydroformylation of this less reactive 2 methyl 1 hexene, expressed as hereinafter in moles per mole rhodium per h amounted to 1000.EXAMPLE 2 The experiment described in the previous Example was repeated using a hydrogen carbon monoxide ratio of 2 1 at a reaction temperature of 70 C and a total pressure of 1800 kPa. The rate of the hydroformylation amounted to 1600. Again the desired aldehyde had been formed for more than 95 .EXAMPLE 3 The experiment described in Example 1 was repeated 0.2 mmol of tris o isopropylphenyl phosphite under otherwise similar conditions. The rate of hydroformylation amounted to 300. COMPARATIVE EXAMPLE A The experiment described in Example 1 was repeated but using 0.2 mmol of tris 2 tolyl phosphite under otherwise similar conditions. The rate of hydroformylation amounted only to 30.COMPARATIVE EXAMPLE B The experiment described in Example 1 was repeated but using 0.2 mmol of tris 2,6 dimethylphenyl phosphite under otherwise similar conditions. No hydroformylated product could be detected at all.COMPARATIVE EXAMPLE C The experiment described in Example 2 was repeated but using 0.2 mmol of the well known ligand triphenylphosphine. The reaction temperature was 72 C. The rate of hydroformylation amounted only to 50.EXAMPLE 4 The autoclave described in Example 1 was charged with 20 ml benzene in which were dissolved 0.02 mmol 1,5 cyclooctadienerhodium I acetate and 0.1 mmol of tris 2 t.butylphenyl phosphite under an atmosphere of argon.Cyclohexene 15 mmol was added. The autoclave was then pressurized with hydrogen and carbon monoxide in a 2 1 molar ratio and then heated to 700C, the pressure in the autoclave now being 1800 kPa.After 1 h the reaction mixture was worked up in the manner described in Example 1. The rate of hydroformylation amounted to 660.EXAMPLE 5 The experiment described in the previous Example was repeated using 0.2 mmol of tris 2 t.butylphenyl phosphite. The reaction was carried out at a temperature of 90 C. The rate of hydroformylation amounted to 4000.COMPARATIVE EXAMPLE D The experiment described in Example 4 was repeated using varying amounts of triphenylphosphine from 0.01 up to 0.08 mmol .The rate of hydroformylation was always less than 25.EXAMPLE 6 The autoclave described in Example 1 was charged with 20 ml benzene, in which was dissolved 0.02 mmol 1,5 cyclooctadienerhodium I acetate and 0.3 mmol of tris 2 t.butylphenyl phosphite under an atmosphere of argon.Limonene 12 mmol of a 1 1 mixture of the 1 methyl and 2 methyl isomers as obtained from dimerizing isoprene was added. The autoclave was then pressurized with hydrogen and carbon monoxide in a 2 1 molar ratio and then heated to 90 C, the pressure in the autoclave being 1400 kPa. After 1 h the reaction mixture was worked up as described in Example 1. The rate of hydroformylation amounted to 3500.EXAMPLE 7 The experiment described in the previous Example was repeated using 10 ml benzene and 0.2 mmol of tris 2 biphenylyl phosphite under otherwise similar conditions. Limonene 10 ml was added and the reaction proceeded under a pressure of 1000 kPa the hydrogen carbon monoxide ratio being 2 1. The rate of hydroformylation amounted to 1500. COMPARATIVE EXAMPLE E The experiment described in Example 6 was repeated but using triphenylphosphine in rather large excess 0.4 mmol . The rate of hydroformylation amounted to 100.EXAMPLE 8 The experiment described in Example 6 was repeated using natural limonene as the starting material 60 mmol in half the amount of benzene in which the rhodium compound 0.03 mmol had been dissolved together with 0.21 mmol of tris 2 t.butylphenyl phosphite. The reaction temperature was 800C. The rate of hydroformylation amounted to 1700.EXAMPLE 9 The experiment described in Example 1 was repeated using methylenecyclohexane as the starting material. The reaction was carried out at a temperature of 75 C and the total pressure amounted to 2000 kPa hydrogen carbon monoxide 1 1 . The rate of hydroformylation amounted to 3000. EXAMPLE 10 In a two litre reactor were placed limonene 900 g , 1,5 cyclooctadienerhodium I acetate 175 mg and tris 2 t.butyl 4 methylphenyl phosphite 17.0 g . A mixture of hydrogen and carbon monoxide mol ratio 1 1 was introduced into the liquid whilst stirring, the pressure being kept at 1500 kPa.The reaction mixture was heated to 100 C. After 7 hours the reaction mixture was worked up. Both the limonene conversion and the selectivity to aldehyde were 90 . After removal of the product and the addition of fresh limonene to the reactor, the remaining catalytic solution could be used again.