# DC DC converter

## Claims
Umformer von Gleichstrom in Gleichstrom mit

## Description
The present invention relates to a DC DC converter including a blocking oscillating circuit and a voltage resonance type switching circuit. A DC DC converter of the type in which a first DC voltage is converted into a voltage with a rectangular wave by means of a switching circuit, the rectangular wave voltage is smoothed through a transformer, and the smoothed voltage is supplied to a load, as a second DC voltage, has been known. This type of DC DC converter, because of meritorious features of small size and light weight, has widely been used as DC power sources for terminal equipment of computers and general communication equipment. This is especially true for a small capacity DC DC converter with an output of 200 W or less of the single end type in which a switching element for turning on and off a first DC voltage is inserted between one end of the transformer and a first DC voltage source, because of its low cost and simple construction. For further detail of the single end type DC DC converter, reference is made to IEEE Power Electronic Conference, 1977, pp 160, A New Optimum Topology Switching DC DC converter . A basic switching scheme in the DC DC converter is categorized into a buck power stage system, a boost power stage system, a buck boost power stage system, and a boost buck power stage system. Common to those systems is a conversion of the DC power source voltage having a voltage with a rectangular wave. The common feature increases a switching loss of the switching element making up the switching circuit to necessitate a radiator plate for radiating heat. A self exciting type circuit with omission of an oscillating circuit for driving the switching circuit, employed in the switching system, hinders the increase of the switching speed by a feedback action. A voltage resonance type switching system as a modification of the buck boost power stage system as mentioned above, allows the improvement of a switching efficiency by shaping L the switching characteristic of the switching element. The L shaping of the switching characteristic means that in the graph in which a current of the switching element is plotted on an ordinate and a voltage between terminals of the switching element is plotted on an abscissa the switching element is operated to form the voltage current characteristic of L Shape. This approach indeed succeeds in increasing the switching efficiency, but needs an external drive circuit and an auxiliary power source for driving the switching element, resulting in the complexity of the construction of a DC DC converter. In this respect, there has been a demand for driving the switching element by the output of an oscillating circuit driven by the first DC voltage mentioned before. The attempt, however, has been unsuccessful in that the mere use of an oscillating circuit provides an unstable or abnormal oscillation output due to a counter action of the switching circuit. FR A 2 298 898 discloses a DC DC converter having a transformer with a leakage inductance and an exciting inductance in the primary side. A switching element is connected between the primary side of the transformer and an input DC power source, the switching element periodically interrupting the voltage of the DC power source. A blocking oscillator is energised from the DC power source and controls the switching element the blocking oscillator includes stabilizing means. Accordingly, an object of the present invention is to provide a DC DC converter which ensures a stable DC DC conversion, in which, in a DC DC converter having a switching element inserted between a DC power source and an input terminal of a transformer, for example, a blocking oscillator with an output stabilizing means directly driven by the DC power source voltage is used as an oscillator for driving a switching circuit of the voltage resonance type. According to the present invention, there is provided a DC DC converter comprising This invention can be more fully understood from the following detailed description when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which Fig. 4 shows an embodiment of DC DC converter according to the present invention. An AC source of 100 V. for example, is rectified by a full wave rectifying circuit 1, and a rectified output is smoothed by a smoothing capacitor 2, thereby to obtain an input DC voltage Vcc. A blocking oscillating circuit 3 is supplied with the input DC voltage Vcc and a voltage G of a ground level as its inputs. A transformer 5 for power transmission includes a primary coil 5a and a secondary coil 5b with polarities indicated by black dots. The primary coil 5a is connected in parallel with a resonance capacitor 6. A collector emitter path of a power transistor 4 is connected between the power source voltage Vcc and one end of the primary coil 5a. A damper diode 7 polarized as shown is connected in parallel to the collector emitter path. An output terminal B of the blocking oscillating circuit 3 is coupled with the base of the transistor 4, and another output terminal E is connected to the emitter of the transistor 4. The power source voltage Vcc G referred often to as Vcc is converted into a voltage with a rectangular wave by the transistor 4 controlled by the outputs B and E of the oscillating circuit 3, and the rectangular wave is taken out after being voltage converted by the primary coil 5a and the secondary coil 5b magnetically coupled with each other. The secondary coil 5b is connected in series to a choke coil 8 and a rectifying diode 9, and the voltage converted rectangular wave is supplied with a predetermined load 11 after being smoothed by the smoothing capacitor 10. In the DC DC converter shown in Fig. 4, an output characteristic of the blocking oscillating circuit 3 must be extremely stable. The blocking oscillating circuit used in the present invention has a novel output stabilizing means. The output stabilizing means includes a means which is either for keeping both an output pulse width and a pulse stop period constant or for freely setting the output pulse width and the pulse stop period. The blocking oscillating circuit 3 can be modified variously. For clearer understanding the differences of the arrangement, function and operation of those modifications from a prior blocking oscillating circuit, the prior blocking oscillating circuit will be described referring to Figs. 1, 2A to 2E and 3. In Fig. 1, a series circuit of a resistor R and a capacitor C and another series circuit of a primary coil TA of a transformer T and a switching transistor TR are connected between terminals of a power source E. A base of the transistor TR is connected to a junction point of the resistor R and the capacitor C via a secondary coil TB. A diode D with polarities as shown is connected between the terminals of the primary coil TA. An oscillation output is taken out from the tertiary coil TC. Fig. 2 shows a waveform of a collector voltage of the transistor TR, Fig. 2B shows a waveform of a charge discharge characteristic of the capacitor C, Fig. 2C illustrates a waveform of a collector current of the transistor TR, Fig. 2D shows a waveform of a base current of the transistor TR, and Fig. 2E illustrates a waveform of an output from the tertiary coil TC. Fig. 3 shows the detail of a charge discharge characteristic of the capacitor C. During the output pulse stop period T An embodiment of the blocking oscillating circuit 3 used in a DC DC converter according to the present invention is illustrated in Fig. 5. Since the blocking oscillating circuit 3 has a small output impedance, as well known, it is convenient in use when the switching element 4 is a bipolar transistor. In Fig. 5, a collector emitter path of an npn switching drive transistor 14 is connected between the input terminals Vcc and G in series with a resistor 12 and a primary winding 13a of a drive transformer Further, a second secondary winding 13d to lead out an output pulse of the oscillating circuit 3 is provided in the transformer 13. An output B of the second secondary winding 13d is applied to the base of the transistor 4 and an output E thereof is also applied to an emitter of the transistor 4. A resistor 22 is connected between the outputs B and E. A parallel circuit of a resistor 24 and a diode 23 with the polarity as shown is provided to prevent the backward current from one terminal of the second secondary winding to the output terminal B is inserted between both the terminals. A shield plate 25 designated by a dotted line is set between the second secondary winding 13d and the other windings to prevent a voltage induced by a voltage change, as a reaction to the switching operation of the transistor 4, from sneaking into the winding 13a, 13b and 13c except the second secondary winding 13d. The potential of the electrostatic shield plate 25 is kept at one level G of the input DC voltage, thereby to prevent a capacity coupling of the second secondary winding 13d with the remaining windings 13a, 13b and 13c. Accordingly, the induced voltage arising from a voltage change of the switching circuit including the transistor 4 is prevented from reaching to the blocking oscillating circuit 3. An operation condition of the DC DC converter shown in Fig. 4 is set up as given below. It is assumed that the switching circuit including the transistor 4 executes a switching operation of the voltage resonance type with a sub class E mode. More specifically, a magnetic energy stored in an inductance of the primary winding 5a of the transformer The conduction period of the transistor 4 is substantially determined by an inductance of the primary winding 13a of the blocking oscillating circuit 3, the current amplification factor β of the transistor 14, and the resistance of the resistor 17 for setting the pulse width. The off period of the transistor 4, i.e. a nonconduction period, is substantially determined by the time constant given by the resistance of the resistor 15 and the capacitance of the capacitor 16, and the resistance of the resistor 20 for setting the off period of the transistor 4. With this circuit arrangement, only the pulse width of the output signal from the blocking oscillating circuit 3 may be changed by properly selecting a set value of the resistor 17 for setting the pulse width, without any change of the basic operating condition in the oscillating circuit 3. In other words, this does not affect the determination of the off period of the transistor 4. Additionally, only the off period of the transistor 14 can independently be set by the set value of the resistor 20 for setting the off period of the transistor 14, without any effect upon the pulse width setting condition of the output pulses of the transistor 14. With the arrangement to independently set the pulse width of the output pulses from the oscillating circuit 3 and the pulse stop period, the operating condition of the apparatus shown in Fig. 4 can be satisfied by a simple circuit construction. How the output voltage waveform of the transistor 4 in the DC DC converter shown in Figs. 4 and 5 affects the oscillating condition of the blocking oscillating circuit 3, will be discussed referring to waveforms shown in Figs. 6A to 6C, and Figs. 7A to 7C. Waveforms in the respective portions of the blocking oscillator 3 are illustrated in Figs. 6A to 6C. Waveforms in the respective portions of the switching circuit containing the transistor 4 are shown in Figs. 7A to 7C. In Fig. 6A, a time length 0 T When the switching circuit containing the transistor 4 operates in a stationary mode, the transistor 4 turns off for the period of T In the DC DC converter shown in Figs. 4 and 5, even if the load 11 changes, the oscillating period of the oscillating circuit 3 automatically changes to allow the switching waveform of the voltage resonance type by the transistor 4 to be invariable. In the voltage resonance type switching circuit, when the load 11 gradually changes from the rated load to a light load, the switching period of the transistor 4 gradually becomes long if the conduction duration of the switching transistor 4 is fixed. For example, when the waveform 30 of the collector current i With respect to the control of the output from the blocking oscillating circuit 3, the resistor 17 for pulse width setting and the pulse stop period setting resistor 20 in Fig. 5 may be substituted by a variable impedance element, respectively. Further, in Fig. 4, the voltage transformer Another arrangement shown in Fig.8 may be used in place of the blocking oscillating circuit 3 shown in Fig. 4. In Fig. 8 like reference numerals are used to designate like portions in Fig. 5, and the explanation of those portions will be omitted. A bidirectional Zener diode 41 is connected between the base of the transistor 14 and the secondary winding 13b of the transformer 13, through a resistor 42. A capacitor 43 is connected between the base of the transistor 14 and the secondary winding 13b. A transitor 44 has a collector emitter path connected between the base and emitter of the transistor 14. A resistor 45 is connected between the junction point of the first secondary winding 13b with the capacitor 43 and the base of the transistor 44. Another capacitor 46 is connected between the base and emitter of the transistor 44. The oscillating circuit in the present embodiment operates in substantially the same manner as the blocking oscillating circuit shown in Fig. 5. In each of the blocking oscillating circuits shown in Figs. 5, and 8, the pulse width and the pulse stop period of the output from the oscillating circuit can be individually set and the shield plate 25 is used.