# Rotary sprinkler.

## Abstract
There is provided a pressure regulated, rotating percus sion sprinkler. The sprinkler comprises a two part housing 2, 4 , a pressure regulating, elastically stretchable diaphragm 20 , dividing the interior of the two part housing into a sub stantially peripheral inlet chamber 24 , and a central outlet chamber 26 . The inlet chamber is provided with an inlet con nector 12 . The underside of the diaphragm is accessible to the pressure prevailing in the inlet chamber. There is also pro vided at least one substantially tangentially oriented passage way 30 connecting the peripheral inlet chamber and the cen tral outlet chamber, and an inverted cup like rotor 32 . The ro tor comprises a hollow shaft 34 rotatably mounted in a first part 2 of the two part housing, and a tubular projection 38 substantially aligned with the hollow shaft and extending inside the rotor. The cup like rotor has a substantially annular pe ripheral wall, the inner surface of which is provided with at least one discontinuity 53, 53 constituted by a sudden and tran sient change of curvature and, in operation, serves as a race 54 for at least one spherical mass 56 freely movable in the space delimited by the diaphragm and by the inside of the cup like rotor. The bore of the hollow shaft terminates on the out side of the two part housing in at least one relatively narrow nozzle like opening 49 producing a sprinkling jet. A flow of water introduced through the inlet connector enters the cen tral outlet via the tangentially oriented passageways producing a vortex flow and exits the outlet chamber via the hollow shaft and the nozzle like opening. The vortex flow entrains the spherical mass imparting to it an orbital movement upon and along the race, whereby, upon encountering, prior to being carried by its angular momentum over, the transient discontin uity, the spherical mass imparts an impulse like, limited angu lar motion to the rotor, and, thereby, to the sprinkling jet.