# Screw threaded fasteners.

## Abstract
Components 18, 20 can be secured together by means of a headed fastener comprising a threaded shank 14 and a locking portion in the form of a flared skirt 16 which depends from the shank root. One of the components 18 comprises a recess 24 into which the head can be received. Upon insertion of the fastener the skirt becomes expanded against a bottom wall 28 of the recess to engage a peripheral wall 30 of the recess to resist accidental unscrewing. The skirt becomes compressed between an undersurface 13 of the head and the bottom wall. The skirt may be of increasing thickness from the shank root to the skirt periphery.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A self locking headed screw threaded fastener adapted for use in securing together two or more components of which one 18 comprises a recess 24 into which a head 12 of the fastener will be received upon insertion of the fastener, the fastener comprising a shank 14 which depends from the head and which is screw threaded along part at least of its length and a locking portion in the form of a flared skirt 16 , whereby upon insertion of the fastener the skirt can be expanded against a bottom wall 28 bounding the recess to engage a peripheral wall 30 bounding the recess to resist accidental unscrewing of the fastener, characterised in that the skirt depends from a position at or adjacent the root of the shank to be engaged by an undersurface 13 of the head when the fastener is fully inserted. 2. A fastener according to Claim 1 characterised in that the skirt 16 is of increasing thickness from a position adjacent the shank root to a peripheral portion 32 of the skirt. 3. A fastener according to Claim 2 characterised in that the peripheral portion of the skirt presents a cylindrical radially outwardly facing peripheral surface 38 . 4. A fastener according to either of Claims 2 and 3 characterised in that the peripheral portion 32 of the skirt presents a flat annular face 42 facing away from the head and lying in a plane perpendicular to the fastener axis. 5. An assembly of two or more components secured together by means of a self locking headed screwthreaded fastener, the fastener comprising a shank 14 which depends from the head 12 and which is screwthreaded along part at least of its length and a locking portion in the form of an annular flange 16 , the head of the fastener being received in a recess 24 in one of the components and the periphery of the flange being in engagement with a peripheral wall 30 bounding the recess to resist accidental unscrewing of the fastener, characterised in that the flange 16 depends from a position at or adjacent the root of the shank 14 and is engaged by an undersurface 13 of the head. 6. A self locking headed screw threaded fastener adapted for use in securing together two or more components of which one 18 comprises a recess 24 into which a head 12 of the fastener will be received upon insertion of the fastener, the fastener comprising a shank 14 which depends from the head and which is screw threaded along part at least of its length and a locking portion in the. form of a flared skirt 16 , whereby upon insertion of the fastener the skirt can be expanded against a bottom wall 28 bounding the recess to engage a peripheral wall 30 bounding the recess to resist accidental unscrewing of the fastener, characterised in that the skirt 14 is of increasing thickness from a position adjacent the shank root to a peripheral portion 32 of the skirt. 7. A fastener according to Claim 6 characterised in that the peripheral portion 32 of the skirt presents a cylindrical radially outwardly facing peripheral surface 38 . 8. A fastener according to either of Claims 6 and 7 characterised in that the peripheral portion 32 of the skirt presents afloat annular face 42 facing away from the head and lying in a plane perpendicular to the fastener axis. 9. An assembly of two or more components secured together by means of a self locking headed screwthreaded fastener, the fastener comprising a shank 14 which depends from the head 12 and which is screwthreaded along part at least of its length and a locking portion in the form of an annular flange 16 , the head of the fastener being received in a recess 24 in one of the components and the periphery of the flange being in engagement with a peripheral wall 30 bounding the recess to resist accidental unscrewing of the fastener, characterised in that the flange 16 is of increasing thickness from a position adjacent the shank root to a peripheral portion 32 of the skirt. 10. An assembly according to Claim 9 in which a substantially cylindrical peripheral surface 38 of the flange 16 lies against a cylindrical surface of the peripheral wall 30 .

## Description
SCREW THREADED FASTENERS This invention is concerned with a self locking headed screw threaded fastener adapted for use in securing together two or more components of which one comprises a recess into which a head of the fastener will be recived upon insertion of the fastener, the fastener comprising a shank which depends from the head and which is screw threaded along part at least of its length and a locking portion in the form of a flared skirt, whereby upon insertion of the fastener the skirt can be expanded against a bottom wall bounding the recess to engage a peripheral wall bounding the recess to resist accidental unscrewing of the fastener. By the term self locking is meant, where used herein, that a fastener comprises means provided specifically for the purpose of resisting unscrewing of the fastener, after insertion, to guard against the fastener working loose owing to vibrations or other causes. The fastener may be, for example, a machine screw or bolt. There are described in United Kingdom patent specification No. 381 718 various self locking threaded fasteners both nuts and bolts which comprise a flared flange or skirt, of uniform thickness, which depends from the periphery of a nut or, in similar manner, the head of a bolt. The skirt is arranged to be expanded by a force applied axially to the skirt periphery in application of the fastener, and is provided with a view to its being expanded to enter a groove in the peripheral wall of a recess in which that portion of the fastener comprising the skirt is to be received as the fastener advances, the skirt firstly engages a bottom wall of the recess and thereafter, owing to its engagement with the bottom wall, is lifted and so increases in diameter until a peripheral portion of the skirt enters the groove.As described, the groove may be preformed or it may be cut out by the rotating skirt as the skirt expands. To unscrew the fastener, sufficient force must be applied to deform the skirt periphery and pull it out of the groove. It is an object of the present invention to provide an improved self locking headed screw threaded fastener for use in circumstances in which the head of the fastener is to be received into a recess in a body into which the fastener is to be inserted, the recess being of a diameter not very much greater than the diameter of the head. In one of its aspects the invention is characterised in that the skirt depends from a position at or adjacent the root of the shank to be engaged by an undersurface of the head when the fastener is fully inserted. It is to be noticed that for a given angular deflection of a skirt in expansion, the radial displacement of the skirt periphery is dependent on the skirt length as measured over the skirt surface, not axially . That is to say, the greater the skirt length the greater the radial movement of the skirt periphery. By providing a skirt which depends substantially from the shank root, rather than from the periphery of the head, skirt length is maximised for a given recess diameter and a greater degree of interference with the peripheral wall, in the expanded condition of the skirt, can be achieved. Conversely, for a given required degree of interference, the recess diameter can be minimised, which can be particularly important in certain circumstances. We have found that with a fastener in accordance with the invention, it can be unnecessary for any groove to be provided in the peripheral wall of the recess, frictional forces between the skirt periphery and the recess wall being adequate of themselves to resist working loose of the fastener. In one preferred form of the fastener, the skirt is of increasing thickness from a position adjacent the shank root to a peripheral portion of the skirt, and this can be of benefit in two ways. Firstly, it is possible to provide a peripheral surface on the skirt which has a relatively large surface area to engage the recess wall, without rendering the skirt very stiff. Secondly, in expansion of the skirt there tends to occur a rotation of the skirt as viewed in section about the shank root, rather than a bending of the skirt all the way along its length into a curved form.This can be of advantage as regards control of the attitude of the skirt periphery, which may be important in maximising interference between the skirt and the recess wall in the applied fastener.Preferably the periphery of the skirt presents a cylindrical surface which is returned to a substantially cylindrical form, engaging the recess wall, when the fastener is fully inserted. In another of its aspects the invention is characterised in that the skirt is of increasing thickness from a position adjacent the shank root to a peripheral portion of the skirt. Preferably the skirt depends from a position at or adjacent the shank root. There now follows a detailed description, to be read with reference to the accompanying drawings, of two fasteners and their use which illustrate the invention by way of example. In the accompanying drawings Figure 1 iltustrates a preliminary stage in inser tion of the first fastener Figure 2 illustrates the first fastener fully inserted Figure 3 shows the skirt form of the second fastener and Figure 4 illustrates insertion of the second fastener. The first fastener 10 Figures 1 and 2 is a selflocking headed screw threaded fastener in the form of a machine screw. The fastener comprises a head 12, of cheese head form, and a shank 14 depending from the head 12 and being threaded along part of its length. The fastener 10 comprises a locking portion arranged beneath the head 12 and in the form of a flared skirt 16 which depends from the root of the shank where the shank meets an annular undersurface 13 of the head. The skirt is of frusto conical form with an apical angle of 900 and has a maximum diameter equal to that of the head 12. The fastener 10 is formed in one piece and is of mild steel. Figures 1 and 2 illustrate use of the first fastener to secure together two components 18 and 20.The component 18 comprises a clearance bore 22 and a recess 24, formed by counterboring the bore 22, of a diameter approximately 10 greater than that of the head 12 and the skirt 16 of the fastener. The component 20 comprises a tapped bore 26 into which the shank 14 of the fastener can be threaded. To secure together the two components, the fastener is inserted through the bore 22 and into the bore 26 in a conventional manner. As the fastener is inserted, the skirt 16 eventually engages an annular bottom surface 28 of the recess 24. As the fastener is further screwed down, a force is applied, axially of the shank, to expand the skirt against the surface 28. In this way the diameter of the skirt is increased and the skirt is caused to engage the peripheral wall 30 of the recess 24. The skirt assumes the form of a substantially flat annular flange when the fastener is fully inserted Figure 2 , the flange being engaged by the annular undersurface 13 of the head 12 and compressed between the undersurface and the bottom surface 28 of the recess. The engagement between the skirt 16 and the peripheral wall 24 greatly increases the frictional resistance to rotation of the fastener, and accordingly serves to resist any tendency for the fastener to work loose owing to vibrations or other causes. It is to be understood that in other embodiments of the invention the fastener could be made of any suitable metal, or other, material and the locking portion could take any of a variety of forms. For most applications it will not be essential that the diameter of the unexpanded locking portion be the same as that of the head of the fastener. The skirt 16 of the fastener shown in Figure 1 is of constant thickness between a position adjacent the shank root and a peripheral portion of the skirt which presents a cylindrical, radially outwardly facing, peripheral face. An alternative skirt form which has been found preferable for certain sizes and materials, to give an improved self locking performance in use, is displayed by the second fastener, shown in Figure 3. In this alternative form, the skirt is of increasing thickness from a position adjacent the shank root to a peripheral portion 32. The skirt of the second fastener is of a generally frusto conical form with a mean apical angle of 900, but the conical form of an puter surface 34 of the skirt has an apical angle of approximately 1000 and that of an inner surface 36 has an apical angle of approximately 800. The peripheral portion 32 provides a cylindrical radially outwardly facing peripheral face 38, a flat outer annular face 40 and an inner annular face 42, the outer and inner annular faces lying in planes perpendicular to the fastener axis and extending between the peripheral face 38 and the outer and inner surfaces 34 and 36 respectively. The diameter of the cylindrical face 38 is equal to that of the fastener head. In use of the second fastener Figure 4 , the inner annular face 42 is the first part of the skirt to engage the bottom of the recess. As the fastener is further screwed down, the skirt is compressed axially with the result at first that there is a rotation of the peripheral portion 32 viewing the skirt in section, as inFigures 3 and 4 so that the peripheral face 38 adopts a frusto conical form, of increasing apical angle with fUrther compression the tendency of the skirt to bend is greater adjacent the shank root than elsewhere, the effect being heightened by the increase in skirt thickness with radius.However, once the skirt periphery has engaged the peripheral wall of the recess further compression of the skirt will result in a reversal of the aforementioned rotation, and when the fastener is fully inserted the peripheral face 38 of the skirt will have returned to a substantially cylindrical form to engage the cylindrical recess wall 30 over at least a substantial proportion of the area of the face. The skirt 16 of the fastener shown in Figure 1 presents a circular, relatively sharp, edge to the bottom surface of the recess upon insertion of the fastener. It may be found in some circumstances that that edge tends to dig into the bottom surface, which can affect the manner in which the skirt collapses under compression and may mar the ultimate self locking performance of the skirt. The inner annular face 42 of the alternative skirt form Figure 3 serves to reduce the likelihood of that difficulty arising, since the face 42 can lie flat against the bottom surface of the recess.