# Process for producing an acetal.

## Abstract
An acetal is produced at a high yield and a high selec tivity by contacting an olefin and an alcohol with each other in the presence of a a nitrite, b a platinum group metal or the salts thereof and c a halide at a high reaction rate without requirement of any troublesome operations for the separation, recovery and regeneration of the catalyst.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for producing an acetal comprising the step of contacting an olefin and an alcohol with each bther in the presence of a a nitrite, b at least one component selected from the group consisting of platinum group metals and the salts thereof and c at least one halide. 2. The process as claimed in claim 1, wherein said olefin is at least one compound selected from the group consisting of olefins having 2 to 20 carbon atoms. 3. The process as claimed in claim 1, wherein said alcohol is at least one compound selected from the group consisting of alcohols having alkyl, cycloalkyl and aralkyl groups of 1 to 12 carbon atoms. 4. The process as claimed in claim 1, wherein said nitrite is at least one compound selected from the group consisting of nitrites having 1 to 12 carbon atoms. 5. The process as claimed in claim 1. wherein said platinum group metals are palladium, platinum rhodium, rutenium, iridium and osmium. 6. The process as claimed in claim 1, wherein said salts of the platinum group metals are chlorides, nitrates, sulfates, acetates, phosphates and complex salts. 7. The process as claimed in claim 1, wherein the amount of the halides is 0.1 through 10 mo, , in terms of an atomic number of a halogen atom, based on the platinum group metal. 8. The precess as claimed in claim 1. wherein said process is carried out in a liquid phase. 9. The process as claimed in claim 8, wherein said process is carried out at a temperature of 20 through 150C. 10. The process as claimed in claim 8, wherein said process is carried out under a pressure of an atmosphereic pressure to 200 kg cssG. 11. The process as claimed in claim 8, wherein the amount of the nitrite is 0.01 iG by weight or more, based on the amount of the alcohol.i 12. The process as claimed in claim 1. wherein said process is carried out in a vapor phase. 13. The process as claimed in claim 12. wherein said process is carried out at a temperature of 50 through 200 C. 14. The process as claimed in claim 12, wherein said process is carried out under a pressure of an atmospheric pressure through 20 kg cssG. 15. The process as claimed in claim 12. wherein the ratio of the olefin, the alcohol and the nitrite is 5 through 25 by volume, 5 through 25 by volume and 1 through 30 by volume. respectively.

## Description
PROCESS FOR PRODUCING AN ACETAL The present invention relates to a process for producing an acetal and.more specifically, it relates to a process for producing an acetal from an olefin and an alcohol. Acetals can be applied in various ways industrially as starting materials for the synthesis of organic solvents, perfumes and agricultural chemicals, and can be converted to vinyl ether,which is a starting materialfor producing watersoluble polymers by the removal of alcohol, and the like. Heretofore, acetals have been industrially produced by, for example, the reaction of an alcohol with an aldehyde or the oxidation of an alcohol with manganese dioxide and sulfuric acid. Also known in the art are various methods for producing acetals by reacting olefines, alcohols and oxygen in the presence of platinum metal catalysts. However, the above mentioned methods for the production of acetals pre sent problems from an industrial point of view in that the reaction rate is low.The yield of and the selectivity to the desired products are not good, and the catalyst systems are complicated,and the operations for the separation,recovery.and regeneration thereof are troublesome. Therefore, these methods have not yet been used as an industrial process. Accordingly,an object of the present invention is to obviate the above mentioned problems concerning the prior methods for producing an acetal and to provide a process for producing an acetal from an olefin and an alcohol. Another object of the present invention is to provide a process for producing, at a high yield and a high selectivity, an acetal from an olefin and an alcohol at a high reaction rate without the requirement of any troublesome operations for the separation.recovery and regeneration of the catalyst. Other objects and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the following description. In accordance with the present invention, there is provided a process for producing an acetal comprising the step of contacting an olefin and an alcohol with each other in the presence of a a nitrite i.e. an ester of nitrous acid , b at least one component selected from the group consisting of platinum group metals and the salts thereof and c at least one halide or halogenide . Typical examples of olefins used as a starting material in the present invention are aliphatic olefins such as ethylene, propylene, butene, isobutylene and the like olefin aldehydes such as acrolein. crotonaldehyde and the like olefin ketones such as methyl vinyl ketone, ethylidene acetone, allyl methyl ketone and the like olefin nitriles such as acrylonitrile, methacrylonitrile, crotononitrile and the like olefin carboxylic acids and the esters thereof such as acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, crotonic acid, cinnamic acid and the like olefin amides such as acrylamide, methacrylamide and the like alicyclic olefins such as cyclopentene, cyclohexene, cycloheptene and the like and styrene. Typical examples of alcohols also used as a starting material in the present invention are aliphatic alcohols having 1 to 12 carbon atoms such as methanol, ethanol, n or i propanol, n or i butanol, sec butanol, n or i heptanol, n or i octanol, n or i decanol, n or i dodecanol and the like. These alcohols may be substituted with any substituents such as an alkoxyl group, a halogen atom, a phenyl group and the like as long as these substituents do not adversely affect the desired reaction. Typical examples of nitrites also used in the present invention are those derived from the above mentioned alcohols and nitrous acid. Such examples are methyl nitrite, ethyl nitrite, propyl nitrite,butyl nitrite, amyl nitrite, hexyl nitrite, heptyl nitrite, nonyl nitrite.decyl nitrite, tridecyl nitrite, hexadecyl nitrite, benzyl nitrite and the like. These nitrites can be generally used in an amount of 0.01 iS by weight or more, preferably 0.1 through 20 if by weight, based on the amount of the starting alcohol in the case where the reaction is carried out in a liquid phase.In the case where the amount of the nitrites is less than 0.01 by weight. the production yield and the production rate of the desired acetal tend to be decreased. In the case where the reaction is carried out in a vapor phase. the ratio of the olefines, the alcohols and the nitrites in the vapor phase is approximately 5 25iA by volume 5 25 by volume 1 30 by volume, although the ratio can vary widely. The nitrites can be previously charged into a reaction system, or can be introduced into a reaction system in such a form that the nitrites are diluted with an inert gas such as nitrogen gas,carbon dioxide gas or the like, in the case where the reaction is carried out in a liquid phase. In the case where the reaction is carried out in a vapor phase, the nitrites can be charged alone into a reaction system or can be charged into a reaction system in a mixture with the olefins and or the alcohols and, generally, can be charged into a reaction system in such a form that the nitrites are diluted with an inert gas,such as.nitrogen gas, carbon dioxide gas or the like, Instead of the nitrites. nitrogen oxides or the hydrates thereof can be charged. optionally together with oxygen, into a reaction system, whereby the nitrites can be formed by the reaction thereof with the alcohols. in the reaction system. The platinum group metals and the salts thereof used as a catalyst in the present invention include, for example, palladium, platinum, rhodium, ruthenium iridium and osmium and the halides, sulfates, nitrates, phosphates and acetates thereof, These catalysts can be used, together with an adequate amount of other metals such as gold, vanadium, molybdenum and the salts thereof, The catalysts can be used in a concentration of 1 ppm through 10 by weight, preferably 100 through 1000 ppm in terms of the platinum metal, in the reaction liquid in the case where the reaction is carried out in a liquid phase, In carrying out the present invention, the catalysts can be desirably supported, together with the co catalysts mentioned below, on a suitable carrier such as activated carbon, silica gel, alumina, silica alumina, silicon carbide, diatomaceous earth, magnesia, pumice stone, molecular sieves and the like, in order to facilitate the recovery of the catalysts and or the desired products from the reaction mixture and also to prevent the loss of the catalysts. Although there is no critical limitation regarding the amount of the catalyst supported on the carrier, the amount of the catalyst, in terms of platinum group metal,is desirably 0.01 by weight or more and, more desirably, 0.1 through 1.0 by weight, based on the weight of the carrier, The halides or halogenides used as a co catalyst in the present invention can be any compounds which contain halogen atoms i.e.F, Cl. Br, I Typical examples of the halides which can be desirably used in the present invention are hydrogen halides the halides of platinum metals such as palladium, platinum, rhodium, and iridium the halides of alkali metals such as sodium, potassium and lithium the halides of alkaline earth metals such as calcium and magnesium the halides of copper such as copper chlorides, copper bromides and copper iodides the halides of iron such as FeCl2, FeC13, FeCl2 4H20, Feces 6H20 and FeBr3 and the halides of the other metals or non metals such as cobalt, zinc, nickel, aluminum, molibdenum tin, manganese.chronium, antimony and the like. These halides can be desirably used in an amount of 0.1 through 10, more desirably 0.5 through 5, and, most desirably, 0.5 through 2. in terms of an atomic number of a halogene atom, based on the platinum group metal, in view of the increasein the yield of and the selectivity to the desired product. In the case where the halide of the platinum metal is used as the catalyst in the present invention, the halide is not necessarily present in the reaction mixture. In the case where the present reaction is carried out in a vapor phase, iron compounds, other than the halides of iron, such as Fe203, Fe304, Fe OH 3. FeC03, Fe2 SO 4 3 and Fe NO3 3 9H20 can be desirably used. in addition to the above mentioned halides, The amount of the iron compounds is 0.1 through 10. desirably 0.5 through 5, in terms of an atomic number of an iron metal, based on the platinum group metal. The reaction can be carried out in the presence of, or in the absence of, an inert solvent. Examples of such inert solvents are the esters of lower fatty acids such as ethyl acetate, propyl acetate. butyl acetate. amyl acetate, ethyl propionate, butyl propionate, methyl lactate, ethyl lactate, propyl lactate. butyl lactate and the like the esters of aliphatic dicarboxylic acid such as dimethyl oxalate, diethyl oxalate, dipropyl oxalate, dibutyl oxalate, dimethyl succinate, diethyl succinate, dimethyl adipate and the like carbonic acid diesters such as dimethyl carbonate. diethyl carbonate, dipropyl carbonate, dibutyl carbonate and the like the esters of aromatic carboxylic acids such as methyl benzoate, ethyl benzoate, dimethyl phthalate and the like ethers such as dioxane, dibutyl ether and the like hydrocarbons such as benzene, toluene, xylene, cyclohexane, n hexane and the like and the other solvents such as monochlorobenzene, dichlorobenzene, nitrobenzene, acetophenone.alkylsulfone, alkylsulfoxide and the like. Furthermore the production rate of the acetal canbe further increased by the addition of oxygen in an amount of, for example. 0.1 through 10 S6 by volume in a feed gas.In the case where. as mentioned hereinabove, the reaction is carried out, while introducing the nitrites into a reaction vessel, the oxygen can be introduced as a mixture thereof with the nitrites. The present reaction can be desirably carried out in a liquid phase at a temperature of 20 through 150 C under an atmospheric pressure or under pre ssure,for example.up to 200 keg G. The present reaction can be desirably carried out at a temperature of 50 through 200C under an atmospheric pressure or under pressure, for example. up to 20 kg cd G, in the case where the reaction is carried out in a vapor phase, The starting gaseous materials can be desirably contacted with a catalyst layer or bed at a space velocity S.V. of 500 through 5000 Hr. The present invention will now be further illustrated by, but is by no means limited to, the following Examples and comparative Examples, Example 1 Into a four necked flask provided with a gas feed pipe, an olefin feed pipe, a thermometer and a reflux condenser, SOml of n butanol and 0,1 g of palladium chloride were charged. The contents in the flask were maintained at a temperature of approximately 86 C. 5.3 g of acrylonitrile was added to the flask with stirring over 50 minutes, while a nitrogen gas containing 12 SX by volumeof n butyl nitrite was introduced into the flask at a rate of 210 ml min.over 60 minutes.The effluent gas discharged from the top of the reflux condenser was introduced into a trap containing 50 ml of n butanol,which was cooled by a dry ice methanol bath, whereby the reaction products were collected. The reaction products in the flask and the butanol trap were analyzed by means of gas chromatography. As a result, 27.4 m mol of cyanoacetaldehyde di n butylacetal was produced and, as a by product, only trace amounts of C4H SCH CHCN were formed, Examples 2 5 Reactions were carried out in a manner as described in Example 1. except that the liquid composition at the beginning of the reaction, and the feed rate of nitrogen gas containing n butyl nitrite were changed as shown inTable 1 below. The results thus obtained are shown, together with results of Example 1.in Table 1 below, TABLE 1Example Feed Rate of Liquid Composition at Yield of Nitrogen Gas Beginning of Reaction Cyanoacetaldehyde Containing ml Di n Butyl n Butyl Nitrite n Butyl n Butanol Acetal ml min. Nitrite m mol 1 210 0 50 27.5 2 10 40 39.0 3 100 0 50 15.8 4 10 40 25.8 5 None 27 t 15.2 Example 6 Into a flask provided with an agitator, 1400 ml of methanol, 600 ml of acrylonitrile and 1.2 g of palladium chloride were charged and the contents in the flask were maintained at a temperature of 63 C. 220 l ether of a circulating gas was continuously charged into the flask with stirring.Said circulating gas was obtained by passing a gas discharged from the outlet of the flask, together with 7 8 e hr of oxygen, through a methanol liquid, and contained 44 by volume of methyl nitrite and 45 by volume of nitrogen monoxide. As a result, the space time yield of cyanoacetaldehyde dimethylacetal was 25 g e hr at 6 hours after the beginning of the reaction, Example 7 The reaction was carried out in a manner as described in Example 3, except that air containing 12 by volume of n butyl nitrite was fed at a rate of 100 ml min. in lieu of the nitrogen gas containing 12 by volume of n butyl nitrite. As a result, 46.3 m mol of cyanoacetaldehyde di n butylacetal was formed. Comparative Example 1 The reaction was curried out in a manner as described in Example 3, except that air was fed into a flask at a rate of 90 ml min. in lieu of the nitrogen gas containing 12 by volume of n butyl nitrite. As a result. no formation of acetal was observed. Examples 8 13 and Comparative Examples 2 5 Into the four necked flask used in Example 1, 20 ml of methanol, 10 ml of methyl acrylate, 50 ml of 1.4 dioxane i.e.solvent and the given amount of a catalyst as listed in Table 2 below were charged. Then, the contents in the flask were maintained at a temperature of approximately 63 C and, with stirring, air, or air containing, 13 by volume of methyl nitrite, was fed into the flask for 30 minutes at a rate of 100 ml min. The results are shown in Table 2 below. TABLE 2 No. Yield of Formylacetic Catalyst Feed Acid Dimethylacetal m mol Gas m mol Example 8 PdCl2 0.56 Air 11.5 9 PdCl2 0.56 CuCl2 3.72 8.0 10 10wt Pd C 0.56 9.1 11 0.56 9.3 12 SnCl4 0.46 9.6 13 FeCl3 1.12 7.8 2 PdCl2 O.56 CuCl2 3.72 Air 2.6 Compara 3 PdCl2 0.56 CuCl2 3.72 1.1 tive Et N3 4.26 Example 4 lOwt Pd C 0.56 Air O 5 Pd OAC 2 0.56 Containing 13 by volume of methylnitrite Examples 14 18 Into the four necked flask used in Example 1, 50 ml of methanol. a given amount of an olefin and 0.1 g of palladium chloride were added. The contents in the flask were maintained at the temparature listed in Table 3 below i.e. the reaction temperature and a nitrogen gas containing 8 by volume of methyl nitrite was fed into the flask at a rate of 200 ml min. for the time shown in Table 3 below i.e. the reaction time TABLE 3 Example Olefines Temperature Reaction Formed Acetal m mol c Time hr m mol 14 Cyclohexene 60 2 1,1 dimethoxycyclohexane 100 8,9 15 Methyl Crotonate ff 3 Methyl ss, , ss dimethoxy 64 n butyrate 15,2 16 Methyl Methacrylate Methyl alpha metyl ss, ss 150 dimethoxy propionate 10.4 17 Methacrylonitrile 50 4 alpha methyl ss, P 120 dimethoxy propionitrile 17.2 18 Methyl Vinyl Ketone 60 3 4.4 dimethoxy 2 150 bu tanone 12.1 Example 19 A glass reaction tube having an inner diameter of 25 mm and a length of 400 mm was packed with 14.5 g 15 ml of cylindrical PdC12 CuCl2 r Al203 catalysts containing 1.0 by weight of Pd and 1.2 by weight of Cu supported thereon and, further, glass Raschig rings having a diameter of 3 mm were packed on the catalyst layer at a height of 120mm. This reaction tube was vertically installed and a ring type electric oven was mounted on the. outside of the reaction tube. Thus, the temperature of the inner catalyst layer was maintained at 80 C.Methyl nitrite diluted with nitrogen to a given concentration was fed into the reaction tube from the top thereof, and methanol was fed into the reaction tube from the top thereof by means of a constant rate pump. On the other hand, acrylonitrile was fed into the reaction tube in the form of a vapor from an evaporator in which the acrylonitrile was heated in a constant temperature bath having a temperature of 40 C, together with nitrogen. The result is shown in Table 4 below, Examples 20 23 The reactions were carried out in a manner as described in Example 19.except that the kinds of the catalysts, the reaction temperatures, the compositions of the starting gases,and the space velocities were changed as shown inTable 4 below, The results are shown in Table 4 below. Comparative Example 6 The reaction was carried out in a manner as described in Example 19.except that methanol was not used. The result is shown in Table 4 below. TABLE 4 Composition of Starting Gas Space Time Vol Yield of CyanoacetNo. Catalyst Reaction aldehyde Dimethyl Wt in terms Temp Space Velocity Methyl Acetal of Metal C hr Acrylonitrile Nitrile Methanol g cat l hr Example 19 1 Pd 1.2 Cu Al2O3 80 1330 29.8 17.2 18.4 23.2 20 82 1160 12.9 14.9 21 1550 18.4 9.2 16.2 22 2 Pd 1.2 Cu SiO2 104 1330 23.8 14.0 18.4 24.8 23 5 Pd 1.2 Cu SiO2 110 31.4Comparative 1 Pd 1.2 Cu Al2O3 80 15.5 0 3.4Example 6 Balance of nitrogen gas was contained. Example 24 The reaction was carried out in a manner as described in Example 19.except that ethylene was used in lieu of acrylonitrile, the space velocity of the starting gas ethylene , 16.7Y0 by volume,methyl nitrite 14.5 by volume methanol ... 18.4 by volume, nitrogen gas ... balance was changed to 930 hr,land the reaction temperature was changed to 90 C. As a result, acetaldehyde dimethylacetal was obtained at a space time yield of 93.1 g Cat l hr. Example 25 A glass reaction tube having an inner diameter of 25 mm and a length of 400 mm was packed with 14.8 g 15 ml of a cylindrical PdCl2 FeCl3 SiQ2cata lyst containing 1.0 by weight of Pd and 1.2 by weight of Fe and having a diameter of 3 mm and a height of 3 mm and. further, with glass Raschig rings having a diameter of 3 mm on the catalyst layer at a packing height of 120 mm. The reaction tube was vertically installed and a ring type electric oven was mounted on the outside of the reaction tube. Thus, the temperature of the catalyst layer was heated to approximately 80 C. From the top of the reaction tube, a starting gas mixture containing 18 by volume of ethylene, 14 by volume of methyl nitrite, 14 by volume of oxygen, 15 by volume of nitrogen monoxide and 39 by volume of nitrogen was fed into the reaction tube at a rate of 20.4l hr and liquid methanol was fed at a rate of 9 ml hr space velocity 1690 hr . Thus, the reaction was carried out at a temperature of 110 C, After the reaction tube effluent gas was passed through cooled methanol.the effluent gas was passed through a trap in the constant temperature bath cooled by dry ice methanol, whereby the reaction products were collected. The collected liquid was analyzed by means of gas chromatography. As a result, the space time yield of acetaldehyde dimethylacetal was 124 g l Cat hr. Examples 26 35 The reaction was carried out in a manner as described in Example 25. except that the kinds of catalysts,the reaction temperature, the composition of the starting gas, and the space velocity were changed as shown in Table 5 below, The result is shown in Table 5 below. Example 36 The reaction was carried out in a manner as described in Example 25, except that, from the top of the reaction tube, a starting gas mixture comprising 15 by volume of ethylene, 10 by volume of methyl nitrite. 18 by volume of nitrogen monoxide, and 47 by volume of nitrogen was fed at a rate of 43a hr and liquid methanol was fed at a rate of 9 ml hr space velocity 3200 hr and the reaction temperature was changed to 155 C.The result is shown in Table 5 below, TABLE 5 Space Time YieldExample Catalyst Reaction Space of Acetaldehyde Wt in terms Temperature Velocity Dimethylacetal of Metal C hr 1 g l Cal hr 25 1 PdC12 1.2 FeCl3 SiO2 110 1690 124 26 85 87 27 1 Pd CH3COO 2 1.2 Fe3 CH3COO 9 2 SnCl4 SiO2 15.4 28 1 Pd NO3 2 2 1.2 FeCl3 SiO2 105 t 105 29 1 Pd CH3COO 1.2 FeCl3 SiO2 95 30 1 Pd 1.2 Fe OH 3 SiO2 HCl 103 90 31 2 Pd 1 Fe N93 2 9H2O. 1 NiCl2 Al2O3 95 45 32 1 Pd 1.5 Fe2O3 SiO2 HCl 101 82 33 1 90 PdC12 1.2 i0 FeCl3 Al2O3 107 110 34 1 Yo PdCl2 1.2 FeCl3 SiO2 105 3200 154 35 113 1050 97 36 155 3200 164 HCl used was 50 Vol HCl diluted with N and fed at a rate of 1 ml min. together with N Example 37 The reaction was carried out in a manner as described in Example 25, except that. from the top of the reaction tube, a starting gas mixture comprising 18 by volume of cyclohexene, 14 by volume of methyl nitrite, 14 by volume of oxygen, 15 by volume of nitrogen monoxide and 39 by volume of nitrogen was fed at a rate of 20.4 hr and liquid methanol was fed at a rate of 9 ml hr space velocity 1690 hr and the reaction temperature was changed to 95C. As a result, 1.1 dimethoxy cyclohexane was obtained, as an acetal, at a space time yield of 16.4 g l Cat hr. Example 38 The reaction was carried out in a manner as described in Example 25, except that, from the top of the reaction tube, a starting gas mixture comprising 18 by volume of methyl acrylate, 18 by volume of oxygen, 29 by volume of nitrogen monoxide and 35 by volume of nitrogen was fed at a rate of 16.6l hr, gaseous methyl nitrite was fed at a rate of 3 l hr and liquid methanol was fed at a rate of 9 ml hr space velocity 1640 hr and the reaction temperature was changed to 85 C. As a result, methyl 3,3 dimethoxy propionate was obtained at a space time yield of 130 g B Cat hr. Example 39 The reaction was carried out in a manner as described in Example 25, except that, from the top of the reaction tube, a starting gas mixture comprising 18 by volume of propylene, 14 by volume of methyl nitrite, 14 by volume of oxygen, 15 by volume of nitrogen monoxide and 39 by volume of nitrogen was fed at a rate of 20.4 hr and liquid methanol was fed at a rate of 9 ml hr space velocity 1690 hr and the reaction temperature was changed to 97C. As a result, aceton di n butylacetal was obtained, as an acetal, at a space time yield of 75 g l . Cat hr. Example 40 The reaction was carried out in a manner as described in Example 25.except that, from the top of the reaction tube, a starting gas mixture comprising 15 by volume of acrylonitrile, 15 by volume of ethyl nitrite,18 by volume of ethanol, 11 by volume of oxygen. 16 by volume of nitrogen monoxide and 25 by volume of nitrogen was fed at a rate of 48 l hr space velocity 3200 hr and the reaction temperature was changed to 75C. As a result, cyanoacetoaldehyde diethylacetal was obtained, as an acetal, at a space time yield of 33 g Q Cat hr, Example 41 The reaction was carried out in a manner as described in Example 25.except that a starting gas mixture comprising 14 by volume of methyl nitrite, 14 by volume of oxygen, 16 by volume of nitrogen monoxide and 56 by volume of nitrogen was fed at a rate of 16.7 l hr and a methanol solution containing 60 by volume of 1,4 hexadiene was fed at a rate of 25 ml hr space velo city 1690 hr . As a result, 5.5 dimethoxy 2 hexene was obtained, as an acetal, at a space time yield of 24 g l Cat hr. Example 42 The reaction was carried out in a manner as described in Example 25.except that. from the top of the reaction tube, a gas mixture comprising 5 by volume of oxygen and 95 by volume of nitrogen was fed at a rate of 17l hr and a n butanol solution containing 18 by volume of 1 hexene and 22 by volume n butyl nitrite was fed at a rate of 5Oml hr space velocity 1950 hr and the reaction temperature was changed to 114 C. As a result, 2.2 dibutoxy hexane was obtained, as an acetal, at a space time yield of 35 g Cat hr. Example 43 The reaction was carried out in a manner as described in Example 25.except that a starting gas mixture comprising 17 by volume of ethanol. 14 by volume of oxygen, 18 by volume of nitrogen monoxide, 14 by volume of ethyl nitrite, and 35 by volume of nitrogen was fed at a rate of 15.2l hr and an ethanol solution containing 20 by volume of ethyl crotonate was fed at a rate of 40 ml hr space velocity 1950 hr and the reaction temperature was changed to 125 C. As a result, ethyl ss, P diethoxy n butyrate was obtained, as an acetal at a space time yield of 10g l Cat hr. Example 44 140 ml of methanol, 10 ml of acrylonitrite and 0.1 g of PdCl2 were charged into a pressure resistant glass autoclave provided with an agitator and, then, the content of the autoclave was heated to a temperature of 64C, The reaction was carried out, while a nitrogen gas containing 23 by volume of methyl nitrite was introduced into the autoclave at a rate of 200 me min. The reaction pressure was maintained at 1 kg cm G, The reaction was carried out for 60 min. and, then, the reaction product was cooled. The results are shown in Table 6 below. Example 45 and 46 Reactions were carried out in a manner as described in Example 44, except that the reaction conditions shown in Table 6 were used. The results are also shown in Table 6 below. TABLE 6 Example 44 45 46 Methanol ml 140 140 130 Acrylonitrile ml 10 10 20Reaction PdC12 g 0.1 0.1 0.1Conditions Temp. C 63 64 90 90 Press. kg cmG 1 3 3 Period hr 1 1 1 Methyl nitrite 23 24 23 Flow rate ml min. 200 200 600Result Cyanoacetaldehyde Dimethyl Acetal 60.4 60.0 137.4