# Improvements in or relating to methods of and apparatuses for indicating a predetermined position of a piston or crankshaft of a piston engine.

## Abstract
In order to determine the top dead centre position of a piston 11 and crankshaft, a transducer 10 directs an ultrasonic beam into one of the cylinders at a position intermediate the ends of the piston stroke. When the piston or a piston ring passes into or out of the ultrasonic beam, the level of signals reflected or transmitted to a transducer 10 or 10 , respectively, changes and provides first and second signals. A further transducer 8 produces third signals corresponding to rotary positions of the crankshaft and flywheel 3 . A processor 9 processes the first, second, and third signals and indicates the position of the flywheel 3 corresponding to top dead centre of the piston 11 .

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method of indicating a predetermined position of a piston or crankshaft of a piston engine, comprising directing an ultrasonic beam into a cylinder of the engine at a position intermediate the ends of a piston stroke, providing first and second signals when the piston passes into and out of the ultrasonic beam, respectively, providing a third signal which is either time dependent or corresponds to incremental rotary positions of the crankshaft, and indicating the predetermined position from the first, second, and third signals. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1, in which the first and second signals are provided by receiving ultrasonic signals reflected from the cylinder wall and detecting a change in level thereof caused by the piston or a piston ring thereof in the ultrasonic beam. 3. A method as claimed in claim 2, in which the ultrasonic beam is focussed at or adjacent the cylinder wall. 4. A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, in which the ultrasonic beam has a frequency above 1 MEz. 5. An apparatus for indicating a predetermined position of a piston or crankshaft of a piston engine, comprising means for directing an ultrasonic beam into a cylinder of the engine, whereinthe directing means 10 is arranged to direct the ultrasonic beam at a position intermediate the ends of a piston stroke, means 10,10 for receiving ultrasonic signals from a cylinder and for providing first and second signals when the piston 11 passes into and out of the ultrasonic beam, respectively, means 8,8 for providing a third signal which is either time dependent or corresponds to incremental rotary positions of the crankshaft, and processing means 9 for indicating the predetermined position from the first, second, and third signals. 6. An apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein the receiving means 10,10 is sensitive to changes in level of the received ultrasonic signals to provide the first and second signals. 7. An apparatus as claimed in claim 6, wherein the receiving means 10 is arranged to receive ultrasonic signals reflected from the cylinder wall. 8. An apparatus as claimed in claim 7, wherein the receiving means 10 is arranged to produce the first and second received ultrasonic signals corresponding to clamping of the ultrasonic beam by the piston or a piston ring thereof. 9. An apparatus as claimed in claim 6, wherein the receiving means 10 is arranged to receive ultrasonic signals transmitted through the cylinder. 10. An apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 5 to 9, wherein the directing means is arranged to produce the ultrasonic beam with a frequency above 1 MHz. 11. An apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 5 to 10, in which the means for providing the third signal comprises a transducer 8,8 arranged to detect teeth of a flywheel 3,7 attached to the crankshaft of the engine. 12. An apparatus as claimed in claim 11, wherein the transducer comprises a light sourceand a light sensitive transducer arranged so that the teeth of the flywheel interrupt the path therebetween.

## Description
IMPROVEMENTS IN OR RELATING TO METHODS OF AND APPARATUSES FOR INDICATING A PREDETERMINED POSITION OF A PISTON OR CRANKSHABT OF A PISTON ENGINE The present invention relates to a method of and apparatuses for indicating a predetermined position of a piston or crankshaft of a piston engine.Such methods and apparatuses may be used to determine top dead centre of a piston of, for instance, a petrol or diesel internal combustion engine According to one aspect of the invention, there is provided a method of indicating a predetermined position of a piston or crankshaft of a piston engine, comprising directing an ultrasonic beam into a cylinder of the engine at a position intermediate the ends of a piston stroke, providing first and second signals when the piston passes into and out of the ultrasonic beam, respectively, providing a third signal which is either time dependent or corresponds to incremental rotary positions of the crankshaft, and indicating the predetermined position from the first, second, and third signals. According to another aspect of the invention, there is provided an apparatus for indicating a predetermined position of a piston or crankshaft of a piston engine, comprising means for directing an ultrasonic beam into a cylinder of the engine at a position intermediate the ends of a piston stroke, means for receiving ultrasonic signals from the cylinder and for providing first and second signals when the piston passes into and out of the ultrasonic beam, respectively, means arranged to provide a third signal which is either time dependent or corresponds to incremental rotary positions of the crankshaft, and processing means for indicating the predetermined position from the first, second, and third signals. Such a method and apparatus may be used to indicate top dead centre of a piston for an engine which does not have any marking on its crankshaft, or for checking such a marking when provided. In the case of an internal combustion engine, it is thus possible to check the timing in the absence of any such marks on a flywheel thereof, or when a slave flywheel is provided when the engine is mounted on a test stand. The timing may thus be checked without requiring that the engine be dismantled. The invention will be further dewcribed, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Pigure 1 is a side view of an internal combustion engine fitted with an apparatus constituting a preferred embodiment of the invention and Figure 2 is a fragmentary cross sectional view taken on line I I of Figure 1. Figure 1 shows an internal combustion engine 1, for instance a compression ignition engine, mounted on a test stand 2, for instance so as to allow various timing checks to be performed on the engine without requiring any dismantling thereof. The crankshaft of the engine 1 is connected to a toothed flywheel 3 on which is mounted a slave flywheel connected to a first universal joint 4.The universal joint 4 is connected via a shaft 5 and a second universal joint 6 to a further flywheel 7 or the like, which may form part of further testing apparatus. A transducer 8 is mounted adjacent the toothed rim of the flywheel 3 and is connected to a signal processing circuit 9. The transducer 8 may be an optical transducer comprising a light emitter arranged to direct a beam of light to a photoelectric transducer such that the individual teeth of the flywheel 3 interrupt the beam. Alternatively, the transducer 8 may be of the proximity sensitive type so as to provide a signal when each tooth of the flywheel 3 is adjacent the transducer. Alternatively, if more convenient, the transducer 8 may be replaced by the transducer 8 shown in broken lines, which is disposed adjacent the toothed flywheel 7.Indeed, the transducer 8 may be replaced by any transducer capable of providing a series of signals each corresponding to an instantaneous incremental position of the crankshaft of the engine 1. The signals are repeated periodically for each complete rotation of the crankshaft. The signal processing circuit 9 is further connected to an ultrasonic transducer arrangement 10 which is mounted on the side of the cylinder block of the engine 1. The transducer 10 may be of the type which responds to reflected ultrasonic waves as shown in solid lines in Figure 2 and thus incorporates an ultrasonic transmitter and ultrasonic receiver, both directed towards the adjacent cylinder of the engine. Alternatively, the transducer may comprise an ultrasonic transmitter at 10 in Figure 2 and an ultrasonic receiver 10 disposed on opposite sides of the cylinder so as to be responsive to the beam of radiation received from the transducer 10. The ultrasonic technique used for providing the first and second signals may be a pulse echo technique, a through transmission technique, a resonance technique, or a combination thereof. However, the pulse echo technique is preferred. It is also preferred to use a focussed system whereby the ultrasonic beam is brought to a focal point or zone at the bore surface of the cylinder of the engine. he piston and or the piston ring or rings may be used as means for reflecting the ultrasonic waves so as to provide the first and second signals. Such a technique is possible where the engine being tested is such that the cylinder block has a solid web of material between the or one of the cylinder bores and the exterior of the engine at which the ultrasonic beam is to be received. Further, the solid web must be at a position such that the ultrasonic beam is directed towards the cylinder at a point intermediate the ends of a stroke of the piston therein.In this respect, an ultrasonic probe is normally coupled to the engine block on the exterior surface, for instance by means of oil or soiae other coupling medium, and is oriented so as to direct the ultrasonic beam in a radial plane with respect to the cylinder and at right angles to a tangent to the cylinder bore. However, a preferred technique involves directing the ultrasonic beam towards the cylinder in the manner described above, but utilising the damping of the signal received from the bore surface of the cylinder by the piston and or the piston ring or rings. Thus, when a piston or a ring thereof is not in the ultrasonic beam, an ultrasonic signal is reflected back from the bore surface of the cylinder and is detected by an ultrasonic transducer. However, when the piston or a ring thereof passes through the beam, the ultrasonic signal is damped by the piston or the ring so that the level of the signal reflected to the transducer is substantially reduced. An advantage of this technique is that it is capable of operation.when the ultrasonic beam is directed through a water jacket or the like surrounding the cylinder such that no web of solid material, as required in the above mentioned method, is available for the introduction of the ultrasonic beam.Thus, although the presence of a water jacket through which the ultrasonic beam must pass causes some attenuation of the ultrasonic beam, nevertheless the damping technique is capable of providing sufficiently good first and second signals., so that the present invention is applicable to virtually any form of piston and cylinder engine, no matter what the actual configuration of the cylinder block.This technique is also of advantage as it is capable of use with any form of cylinder liner in such an engine.Thus, the invention may be used equally well with engines whose cylinders are provided with wet liners or with dry liners. The frequency of the ultrasonic sound beam is generally above 1 MHz. However, the frequency may be varied as necessary and the actual frequency used depends, to some extent, on the particular engine to be tested. Figure 2 is a cross sectional diagrammatic view showing the cylinder jacket which the transducer 10 is mounted. The transducer is mounted so as to direct a narrow beam of ultrasonic sound through the wall of the cylinder block and across the cylinder at a height such that the piston 11 interrups the beam at and adjacent its top dead centre position illustrated in broken lines at 11 . At other positions of the piston 11, for instance at bottom dead centre as indicated in broken lines at 11 , the piston 11 remains out of the ultrasonic beam produced by the transducer 10. he transducer 10 is mounted without an air gap on the side wall 12 of the cylinder block of the engine so as to prevent undesirable attenuation of the ultrasonic waves. In the case of a transducer 10 as shown in solid lines in Figure 2, the ultrasonic waves pass through the piston for instance through one of the piston rings in intimate contact with the internal surface of the cylinder, when the piston is at or near its top dead centre position. The ultrasonic waves are thus not reflected back to the transducer 10. When the piston 11 is in a position such that it is not in the ultrasonic beam, the ultrasonic waves are reflected back to transducer 10 to produce an electrical signal.Alternatively, in the case of the presence of a two part transducer shown at 10 and 1O in Figure 2, when the piston 11 is at or near its top dead centre position, it prevents the ultrasonic beam from the transmitter 10 from arriving at the receiver 10 . When the piston 11 is out of the ultrasonic beam, the level of the output signal of the receiver 10 is much higher. In either case, the difference in level of the output signal from the transducer gives rise to first and second signals corresponding to the position of the piston in the cylinder when it enters the ultrasonic beam and when it leaves the ultrasonic beam during consecutive up and down strokes. In use, the engine 1 has its crankshaft rotated, for instance by an electric motor, although it would be possible for the engine to run if this were more convenient. The transducer 10 produces a first signal every time the piston 11 enters the ultrasonic beam therefrom, and produces a second signal every time the piston moves out of the ultrasonic beam. The transducer 8 produces a series of signals corresponding to consecutive incremental positions of the crankshaft. In the case of a flywheel 3 having 120 teeth on its periphery, 120 pulses are produced by the transducer for each revolution of the crankshaft.The signal processing circuit 9 receives the signal from the transducer 10 and from the transducer 8 and processes the signal so as to indicate when the crankshaft is in a predetermined position, or when the piston is in a predetermined position according the requirements of the test. For instance, when checking the timing of the engine 1, it is necessary to know when the crankshaft is in a position such that any selected one of the pistons is at top dead centre.This position may be determined by the signal processing circuit 9 by counting the number of pulses provided by the transducer 8 between the occurrence of the signal from the transducer 10 indicating that the piston has entered the ultrasonic beam and the succeeding signal indicating that the piston has moved out of the ultrasonic beam. he top dead centre of the piston 11 will then have occurred at half the number of pulses between the two signals from the transducer 10. As the number of pulses per revolution of the crankshaft provided by the transducer 8 is known, it is then merely necessary to continue counting from the middle pulse between the two signals from the transducer 10 until that number has been achieved, at which time the piston 11 will again be at top dead centre and the crankshaft will be in the corresponding position. In the case where the flywheel of the engine does not have a mark indicating top dead centre of one of the pistons it is thus possible to determine when the crankshaft is in this position. Alternatively, if the crankshaft does have a mark, it is possible to check the accuracy of this mark using the apparatus described above.The apparatus may be used with other methods of testing the engine so as to check the timing thereof, and allows such checking to be performed without the need to dismantle the engine. In general, the relative positions of the pistons of the engine will be known so that the transducer 10 may be placed adjacent any convenient cylinder of the engine on the exterior. of the cylinder block. Accordingly, it is possible to perform a quick and reliable check on the engine timing. In general, the output signal of the transducer 10 will be filtered so as to improve the signal to noise ratio or to facilitate the extraction of the required information from this signal in the signal processing circuit 9. Further, the transducer 10 should produce a sufficiently narrow band of ultrasonic waves to provide sufficient accuracy for the desired test on the engine. Also, the output signal from the transducer 10 may be processed so that the first and second signals occur when the piston 11 is in the same position relative to the cylinder on consecutive up and down strokes, respectively. Transducer 8 may be replaced by a timing unit within module 9 to provide a time based signal such that the apparatus may be used directly in conjunction with the apparatus described in our co pending applicationNo. reference 230P41478X entitled Improvements in or relating to methods of and apparatuses for determining opening of injectors.