# Suspension assembly for coupling a wheel to a frame of a vehicle.

## Abstract
A suspension assembly couples a wheel assembly 16 and a brake assembly 60 to a frame 10 . The suspension assembly includes a support 20 for receiving an axle 24 . The axle carries the wheel assembly 16 at one end of the support 20 and forms a drum 46 at the other end of the support 20 for engagement with the brake assembly 60 . Therefore, the support 20 separates the wheel assembly 16 from the brake assembly 60 so that the brake assembly 60 brakes the wheel assembly 16 via the axle 24 .

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A suspension assembly for coupling a wheel assembly 16 to a frame 12 of a vehicle comprising an axle 24 rotatable with the wheel assembly, a support 20 engaging the vehicle frame and rotatably carrying the axle and a brake assembly 46 operable during braking to brake the wheel assembly, characterized in that said axle 24 is connected with said wheel assembly 16 at one end 40 of said support 20 , and said brake assembly 46 is engageable with said axle 24 at the other end of said support 20 remote from said wheel assembly 16 such that said brake assembly brakes said wheel assembly via said axle. 2. An assembly according to claim 1, characterized in that said axle 24 is splined at said other end for securing a drum 46 thereto, said brake assembly being engageable with said drum 56 . 3. An assembly according to claim 2, characterized in that said support 20 includes an opening 22 for receiving said axle 24 , said axle cooperating with said support 20 to locate a first bearing assembly 26 therebetween, said drum 46 cooperating with said support 20 to locate a second bearing assembly 28 between said support 20 and said axle 24 . 4. An assembly according to claim 3, characterized in that said drum includes an inner axially extending boss 48 opposing said second bearing assembly 28 , said drum including an outer axially extending rim 58 cooperating with said brake assembly 60 and said inner axially extending boss 48 being provided with means to prevent rotation between said drum and said axle. 5. An assembly according to claim 1, characterized in that said brake assembly includes a radial dimension extending outwardly from said axle which is less than an axial dimension for said brake assembly. 6. An assembly according to claim 4, characterized in that said rim 58 axially overlaps a portion of said support 20 .

## Description
SUSPENSION ASSEMBLY FOR COUPLING A WHEEL TO A FRAME OF A VEHICLE The invention relates toa suspension assembly for a wheel and brake which couples a wheel and a brake to a vehicle frame. Suspension assemblies provide a support such as a tube for rotatably carrying an axle. The tube terminates in a mounting flange for carrying a brake assembly and the axle terminates in a flange for carrying a drum which is engageable with the brake assembly. The axle flange also carries a wheel adjacent the drum. In a front wheel drive vehicle, the weight of the vehicle engine is primarily carried by the front wheels. Also during braking in a forward direction, the change in velocity causes the weight of the vehicle to shift to the front wheels. Therefore, during braking the brakes associated with the front wheels in a front wheel drive vehicle perform most of the braking for the vehicle. This leaves the brakes associated with the rear wheels to develop substantially less drag than the front brakes. Because of the increased braking effort by the front wheels, vehicle manufacturer s provide disc brakes for the front wheels and drum brakes for the rear wheels. Because the rear drum brakes are more efficient than required for lightweight small cars, the braking systems for these cars include proportioning valves to further reduce the braking of the rear drum brakes by reducing the fluid pressure communicated to the rear brakes during braking. Although the size of the drum brake could be reduced in diameter to further reduce the braking effort for the rear wheels, the location of the drum and brake assembly adjacent the axle flange substantially prevents reduction in size so that reliance on proportioning valves is continuing with the state of the art. The invention proposes a suspension assembly for coupling a wheel assembly to a fram of a vehicle comprising an axle rotatable with the wheel assembly, a support engaging the vehicle frame and rotatably carrying the axle and a brake assembly operable during braking to brake the wheel assembly, characterized in that said axle connected with said wheel assembly at one end of said support, and said brake assembly is engageable with said axle at the other end of said support remote from said wheel assembly such that said brake assembly brakes said wheel assembly via said axle. It is an advantage of the invention that the wheel assembly and brake assembly are separated from each other by the frame support to permit sufficient reductions in size for the brake assembly. In addition, the support for the vehicle frame can be juxtapositioned to the wheel assembly to widen the support for the vehicle frame. One way of carrying out the invention is described in detail below with reference to the drawings which illustrate only one specific embodiment, in which Figure 1 is a side view, partly in cross section, of a suspension assembly and brake assembly constructed in accordance with the present invention, the cross section is taken along line 1 1 of Figure 2 Figure 2 is a cross sectional view taken along line 2 2 ofFigure 1 and Figure 3 is a cross sectional view taken along line 3 3 ofFigure 1. A vehicle frame 10 is secured to a body 12 which carries the occupants of the vehicle. The frame 10 can be integrally formed with the body 12 as a unibody construction or it can be separate from the body 12. The body 12 forms a wheel well 14 to accomodate the space occupied by a wheel assembly 16. A spring 18 resiliently carries the body relative to a support 20. In order to dampen oscillation between the body or frame and the support 20, a shock absorber not shown is generally provided between the frame 10 and the support 20. The support 20 defines an opening 22 extending axially therethrough. An axle 24 is rotatably disposed within the opening 22 by means of a pair of bearing assemblies 26 and 28. A pair of sealing rings 30 and 32 are carried at each end of the support 20 to prevent the introduction of contaminants, such as, dirt or water into the opening 22. The wall 34 of opening 22 is stepped to form shoulders 36 and 38, the shoulder 36 abutting bearing assembly 26 and the shoulder 38 abutting bearing 28. The axle 24 terminates in a radially outwardly extending flange 40 at one end of the support 20 outside the opening 22. The flange 40 is apertured at 42 to receive studs 44 which cooperate with nuts to releasably secure the wheel assembly 16 to the axle flange 40.The axle 24 includes a drum 46 at the other end of support 20. An inner boss 48 on the drum is splined at 50 to mesh with associated splines 52 on the axle 24 so that, when the drum is secured to the axle via nut 54, the drum 46 rotates with the axle 24. In the alternative, the drum could be integrally formed with the axle. The inner boss 48 extends slightly into the opening and is engageable with the bearing assembly 28 to axially position the latter between the support 20 and the axle 24. The inner boss also engages the sealing ring 32. The drum 46 defines an outer rim 56 with an inner surface 59. The rim 56 and boss 48 extend axially toward the support 20 to define an annular cavity 58. In order to control braking for the wheel assembly 16, a drum brake assembly 60 is secured to the support 20 via welding at 62 or other suitable fastening techniques so that the drum brake assembly 60 is disposed within cavity 58 for engagement with surface 59 of rim 56. The drum brake assembly 60 includes a torque plate 64 welded to the support 20 and carrying a wheel cylinder 66 which cooperates with a pair of brake shoes 68 and 70. Viewing Figure 2, the wheel cylinder 66 carries a pair of pistons 72 and 74 which are engageable with respective brake shoes 68 and 70 to move the latter from a non braking position to a braking position in engagement with the rim surface 59. A floating spacer 76 is carried between the brake shoes opposite the wheel cylinder so that the drum brake operates in a duo servo manner with the brake shoes rotating slightly with the drum 46.In order to absorb braking torque, the torque plate 64 is provided with a pair of axially protruding abutments 78 and 80. Each brake shoe, 68 and 70, is provided with a projection, 82 and 84, defining a recess, 86 and 88, for receiving the abutments 78 and 80. If the drum rim 56 is rotating in a clockwise direction inFigure 2 during braking, the brakeshoe 70 rotates slightly with the rim 56 to bias the brake shoe 68 into engagement with the rim 56 so that abutment 78 takes all of the braking torque. Conversely, if the rim 56 is rotating counterclockwise during braking, the brake shoe 68 rotates slightly with the rim 56 to bias brake shoe 70 into engagement with the rim 56 so that abutment 80 takes all of the braking torque. Turning to Figure 3, the torque plate 64 is substantially rectangular in shape except for a top portion 65 carrying the wheel cylinder 66. The upper corners of t e rectangular torque plate are apertured to receive abutments 78 and 80 in the form of bolts secured to the torque plate. The lower corners of the torque plate are apertured to receive bolts 90 and 92, which secure lugs 94 and 96. The lugs are slotted to receive and guide the webs 98 and 100 of brake shoes 68 and 70, respectively. In the preferred embodiment, the rim surface 59 defines a diameter of 12.7 cm and is smaller in diameter than the outer periphery of axle flange 40. The axial width for the rim 56 is 6.6 cm and is substantially equal to the radius defined by the rim surface 59 which is 6.35 cm. The drum brake assembly 60 defines a radius of 4.35 cm to the center of the wheel cylinder 66 and a radius of 3.9 cm to the center of the abutments 78 and 80. Consequently, the abutments are located radially inwardly of the wheel cylinder 66.