# Arrangement in jointing boxes for optical cables.

## Abstract
An arrangement in jointing boxes for optical cable with several optical fibres for taking up the surplus loops obtained after jointing the parts 12 , has a rack 1 in which a number of loop pick up devices 6 is pivotably arranged. The loop pick up devices are provided with fixing devices e.g. comprising the conveniently folded edges 7, 8 on a plate 6 which keeps the optical fibres 12 in loops with sufficient radius of curvature to prevent cracks in the optical fibre.

## Claims
WHAT WE CLAIM IS 1 Arrangement in jointing boxes for optical cables, preferably with several single optical fibres, to pick up and fix surplus fibre lengths 12 , after the jointing, characterized by a rack 1 provided with support means 3,4 and a number of pick up devices 6 pivotably stored in the support devices 3,4 , each of the pick up devices being supplied with fixing means 6,7 to fix at least one fibre length 12 in loops with a radius of curvature exceeding the smallest radius of curvature allowable for the actual fibre. 2 Arrangement according to claim 1, characterized in that the pick up devices 6 comprise of planar plates, and that the fixing means include folded borders 7 of the upper part of the plate 8 of which is bent towards the middle of the plate. 3 Arrangement according to claims 1 or 2, characterized in that the fixing means include pins or clips mounted on the pick up devices 6 .

## Description
ARRANGEMENT IN JOINTING BOXES FOR OPTICAL CABLESTECHNICAL FIELDThe invention relates to an arrangement in jointing boxes for optical cable for picking up the surplus loop, obtained after the jointing.BACKGROUND ARTFibre optic conductors can be jointed in several different ways, e g by welding or glueing the ends together or by some typ of connector.The requirements on the jointing method are that it must be as cheap as possible and cause a low attenuation. Besides it has to be performed in the field when Laying the cable. By this reasons mostly welding and glueing is used where welding often is preferred due to the shorter jointing time. These methods have in common that some kind of jointing apparatus is used which is located near the jointing spot.. This implies that a certain conductor surplus is needed at the joint. As the fibre optic conductor is stiff and thus always needs a certain radius of curvature to avoid that it is strained to such an extent that cracks will arise in the fibre, this surplus will be considerable, usually of the magnitude 0.5 1 m.DISCLOSURE OF INVENTIONThe surplus conductor remaining after the jointing has to be handled and stored in such a way in the jointing box that it is kept in loops with a sufficient radius of curvature. In particular when the cables have a great number of separate fibre optic conductors, each conductor must be put in such loops, at the same time as each conductor is easily available for inspection without any risk to damage any other conductor through squeezing a loop too much when handling.With an arrangement in jointing boxes for optical cables according to the invention it is obtained that each individual part of a fibre optic cable is fixed in loops with a sufficient radius of curvature, at the same time as these loops are easily available for inspection and the characteristics of the invention are shown in the attached claims. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGThe figure of the drawing shows a perspective sketch of an embodiment of a holder arrangement according to the invention.MODE FOR CARRYING OUT THE INVENTIONThe holder arrangement shown in the figure is intended to be mounted in a jointing box of a kind known per se, in which the cable ends to be jointed is inserted through convenient sealings.The arrangement includes a rack 1 consisting of a rectangular base plate 2 supplied with side walls 3 and 4. The rear edge 5 of the side walls 3, 4 incline backwards as seen from the rear edge of the base plate 2.The rack is holding a number of pick up plates 6, 6 . Each storage plate 6, 6 is supplied with borders 7 along all sides, which have a portion 8 inwards bent, so that channels open inwards are formed along the sides.The corners of the pick up plate have no borders in order to enable the fibre optic conductor to be conducted in and out from the pick up plate 6 from an arbitrary corner.The pick up plates 6 are pivoted in the side walls 3, 4 by means of holes and pins. Suitably one of the side walls 3 is provided with pins 10 and the corresponding border 7 on the plate 6 with holes while the other side wall 4 is provided with holes 11 and the corresponding border 7 is provided with a pin 10 . As the back edge 5 of the side walls 3, 4 inclines backwards and the pivot points of the pick up plates are mainly in parallel with this edge, it is possible to pivot a pick up plate, e g 6 as is shown in the figure, suitably.up to 900, without hindrance by an underlying plate.The arrangement functions in the following way. When a part 12 of the fibre optic cable is jointed, the surplus fibre is put into one or possibly several loops, which are pushed under the inwards bent borders 8 on a pick up plate 6.The elasticity of the fibre 12 tries to expand the loop towards the edges so that the loop will be secured under the inwards bent borders 8. It is possible to fix the fibre further on the pick up plate 6 by means of pins or clips 14. This is particularly applicable when a loop 12 is so short that it does not reach in under any of the inwards bent borders. These pins or clips are suitably adapted for mounting in a known way e g in holes 15 on the pick up plate. When the conductors are inserted in the pick up plates 6, all plates may be mounted in the side walls 3, 4. To facilitate the access it is also possible to mount the pick up plates 6 as the fibres are put on the associated pick up plate and fixed. This is possible as the side waLls are resilient so that a pick up plate can be easily inserted in the side walls. Naturally it is not necessary to mount more pick up plates than needed for a certain jointing box. Should more cables be inserted in the jointing boxes, more pick up plates could easily be inserted. The space between the pick up plates is so chosen that they are closely packed when mounted. If it is required to inspect a joint or e g replace a damaged optical fibre the above pick up plates may be folded as the pages of a book and required operations can be made without the risk of damaging the other optical fibres.