# Blended polyethylene polystyrene compositions suitable for preparation of closed cell foam products.

## Abstract
Ethylenic polymer styrenic polymer blend foams are prepared from blends of 1 an ethylenic polymer resin having a density of from 0.915 to 0.930 g cm³ and a melt index of from 0.2 to 2.6 grams 10 minutes and 2 a styrenic polymer resin having a melt flow rate of from 1.4 to 18 grams 10 minutes. Foams having an excellent overall com bination of properties are obtained 1 when the density, D, of such foams is in the range of from 10 to 40 kg m³ and the 25 percent compressive strength, F, in kg cm² is from 0.013D

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A substantially closed cell polymer foam having a density, D, of from 10 to 40 kilograms cubic meter, a 25 percent compressive strength, F, in kg cm2 defined by the formula 0.024D1 .15 F 0.0l3D1 .15 a compression recovery of 90 percent or greater as measured by JIS K6767 and a toluene solvent resistance in terms of volumetric change of not more than 10 percent as measured by ASTM D543, and further characterized by being made of a homogeneous blend of 1 an ethylenic polymer resin having a density of from 0.915 to 0.930 g cm3 and a melt index of 0.2 2.6 grams 10 minutes and 2 a styrenic polymer resin having a melt flow index of 1.4 18 grams 10 minutes, said blend meeting the further requirements 7 R 90 10 S Y S 394.7 1.18 R 294.1 log D wherein R is the melt flow index of the styrenic polymer resin divided by the melt index of the ethylenic polymer resin, Y is the weight of the styrenic polymer resin in parts per 100 parts of the ethylenic polymer resin, andD is the density of the blended ethylenic polymer styrenic polymer foam in kg m3. 2. The polymer foam of Claim 1 wherein the ethylenic polymer resin is low density polyethylene. 3. The polymer foam of Claim 2 wherein the styrenic polymer resin is polystyrene. 4. The polymer foam of Claim 1 having a closed cell content of at least 90 volume percent. 5. The polymer blend foam of Claim 1 which exhibits a creep value of 6 percent or less as determined in accordance with JIS K 6767 under conditions of 0.1 kg m2 load over a 24 hour period. 6. A process for preparing the extruded, substantially closed cell polymer foam of Claim 1 characterized by blending under elevated temperature and pressure 1 an ethylenic polymer resin having a density of from 0.915 to 0.930 g cm3 and a melt index of 0.2 2.6 grams l0 minutes, 2 a styrenic polymer resin having a melt flow index of 1.4 1.8 grams l0 minutes, and 3 a volatile organic blowing agent having a Kauri Butanol value of from 15 to 22 as determined by ASTM D 1133, said blend meeting the further requirements 7 5 R S 90 10 5 Y 5 394.7 1.18 R 294.1 log D wherein R is the melt flow index of the styrenic polymer resin divided by the melt index of the ethylenic polymer resin, Y is the weight of the styrenic polymer resin in parts per 100 parts of the ethylenic polymer resin, andD is the density of the blended ethylenic polymer styrenic polymer foam in kg m3, cooling the mixture to a temperature suitable for foaming, and then extruding the blended mixture to form the closed cell polymer foam. 7. The process of Claim 5 using from 15 to 35 parts of dichlorodifluoromethane per 100 parts of blended polyethylene polystyrene resin as a blowing agent. 8. Homogeneous blend suitable for the preparation of closed cell foam products having a density d of from 10 to 40 kilogramme per cubic meter characterized in that it comprises 1 an ethylenic polymer resin having a density of from 0.915 to 0.930 g cm3 and a melt index of 0.2 2.6 grams 10 minutes and 2 a styrenic polymer resin having a melt flow index of 1.4 18 grams 10 minutes, said blend meeting the further requirements 7 S R 90 10 Y 4 394.7 1.18 R 294.1 log wherein R is the melt flow index of the styrenic polymer resin divided by the melt index of the ethylenic polymer resin, Y is the weight of the styrenic polymer resin in parts per 100 parts of the et ySenic polymer resin, andD is the density of the blended ethylenic polymer styrenic polymer foam in kg m3.

## Description
BLENDED POLYETHYLENE POLYSTYRENE COMPOSITIONS SUITABLE FOR PREPARATION OF CLOSED CELL FOAM PRODUCTS This invention relates to certain polyethylenepolystyrene blend compositions suitable for the preparation of closed cell foam products and to a novel foam product having heretofore unattainable structural indices and properties. Polystyrene and polyethylene resins have individually been used in the form of molded foams for applications such as heat insulation materials, shock absorbing materials, floating materials, etc.However, such applications have been limited by specific properties of the individual foam products.More specifically, polystyrene resin foams are deficient in solvent resistance, flexibility, compressive recovery, and capacity in absorbing repeated impacts and are thus not generally suitable as shock absorbing cushioning materials. On the other hand, polyethylene resin foams are deficient in stiffness, thermal resistance, and creep resistance and are therefore not generally suitable for applications requiring such properties. Efforts have been made to blend the two resins and develop a unique foam combining the advantageous properties of the two resins. For example, note in Japanese Patent Publication No. 34,662 1977 disclosing a method of mixing the two resins in the presence of a specific mixed medium and Japanese Patent Kokai No.35,471 1974 describing a method of polymerizing styrene within a polyethylene resin both ultimately directed toward foaming the combined resins. However, these and other conventional techniques have not yet achieved desired results in terms of flexibility and repeated elastic recovery and cushioning coefficient. In recent years, the demand has been increasing for cushioning materials for packaging of light weight audio instruments, computers, and cameras, as well as for flexible noise and heat insulating materials.Properties desirable for cushioning materials include flexibility enough to absorb small vibrations, stiffness enough to resist buckling or creeping on exposure to relatively large shocks and loads, combination of flexiblity and stiffness in economical thickness, and stability to retain these properties at such a temperature of about 700C encountered in the holds of ships, for example.Properties desirable for heat insulation materials include flexiblity enough to be bent and compressed so as to be packed in walls, heat insulation property high enough to enhance the inhabitability in economical thickness, flexibility and heat insulation retaining property, flexibility enough to absorb vibrations generated on the floors, in cases where the heat insulation materials are used in floating floors, stiffness enough to withstand the loads applied, dimensional stability in temperatures exceeding about 700C, low water vapor permeability and outstanding heat insulation. The primary object of this invention, therefore, is to provide a novel foam which exhibits a well balanced combination of flexibility and compression strength, excellence in compression recovery, resistance to distortion due to repeating compression, resistance to creep, heat insulation property, durability or good retention of heat insulation property as a function of time, and suitability for fabrication by cutting and severing, and dimensional stability against heat and solvents.The foams of this invention are formed of a blend of 1 an ethylenic polymer resin with a melt index MI in the range of from 0.2 to 2.6 g 10 minutes and 2 a styrenic polymer resin with a melt flow index MFI in the range of from 1.4 to 18 g 10 minutes, said blend having a melt flow ratio R of 7 90 where R is the melt flow index MFI of the styrenic resin divided by the melt index MI of the ethylenic polymer resin. The term ethylenic polymer resin as used herein means an ethylenic polymer resin having a density in the range of from 0.915 to 0.930 g cm3 as measured byASTM D 1505 employing a density gradient tube. This product is desirably a homopolymer of ethylene e.g.low density polyethylene , but it may alternatively be a copolymer of ethylene and a monomer capable of copolymerizing with ethylene such as acrylate esters e.g.ethyl acrylate, etc. , methacrylate esters e.g. methyl methacrylate, etc. , propylene, isobutylene, or butene l in an amount of 20 by weight or less. As the styrenic polymer resin, it is preferable to employ a homopolymer of styrene. However, it is alternatively possible to employ a copolymer of styrene and a monomer capable of copolymerizing the styrene such as, for example, acrylonitrile or butadiene in an amount of 30 by weight or less. The terms MI and MFI as used herein mean the flow properties of the respective resins as defined in ASTM D 1238. When the resins have flow properties outside the stated limits, the blend of the resins fails to produce a foam having the resins homogeneously blended therein and the resulting foam fails to have the desired combination of closed cell ratio, surface uniformity, and appearance. Further more, even when the blend of the two resins has the required melt flow properties, it is essential to have a certain quantitative ratio Y of the styrenic polymer resin to the ethylenic polymer resin. This quantitative ratio Y is the quantity in parts by weight of the styrenic polymer resin PS employed in the polymer blends based on 100 parts by weight of the ethylenic polymer resin PE . Figures 1 3 are analytical graphs showing the relationship between the quantitative PS PE ratio Y and foam density D in kilograms cubic meter. In Figure 1 the flow rate ratio R is 90 in Figure 2 R is 28.8 and in Figure 3 R is 7. Figures 1 3 also show data points for various foams wherein the polyethylene and polystyrene resins employed satisfied both the flow properties and the flow rate ratio R defined by this invention. The data points are divided into two groups, i.e., those possessing closed cell ratio, surface uniformity, and appearance which are rated above satisfactory levels designated by the mark 0 or 0 and those rated below satisfactory levels designated by the mark x . The lines A, B and C, respectively, in Figures 1 3 represent the dividing line i.e., in terms of Y as a function of log D between foams satisfying the requirements of the present invention and foams which do not satisfy such requirements. Based upon the data presented in Figures 1, 2 and 3, it can be seen that the foams of this invention i.e., those ranked with the mark 0 or O in Figures 1, 2 and 3 can have a quantitative PS PE ratio Y which greatly varies with the PS PE flow rate ratio R but which has ceiling and bottom limits, expressed byFormula I 10 i Y S 394.7 1.18R 294.1 log D wherein D denotes foam density in kilograms cubic meter. The foam product of the present invention is further defined by a specific relation between foam density D and stress F necessary for producing 25 compression of the foam. Figure 4 shows such relationship between foam density D and 25 compressive strength F for the foam specimens ranked with the mark 0 or O in Figures 1, 2 and 3, indicating the homogeneous mixture of the two resins. The foam specimens were evaluated as to whether they have creep resistance and cushioning property at the same time.In Figure 4, the foam specimens having these two properties concurrently are ranked with the mark O, the specimens having the two concurrently at a lower level are rated with the mark 0 and the specimens not having the two properties at the same time are ranked with mark x. It can be seen from Figure 4 that the foams of this invention meet, in this relationship, the requirements expressed by Formula II 0.024D1 15 F 0.013D1 15 wherein D ranges from 10 to 40 and preferably D is from 15 to 30. Figures 5 through 8 are microscopic photographs magnified 3,000 times actual size showing the cell walls of the foam of run No. 61 ranked by the mark e and those of run No. 13 ranked by the mark x respectively in Figure 4. Figures 5 and 7 show the surface conditions of the cell walls, whereas Figures 6 and 8 show the cell walls from which polystyrene component was dissolved off.It can be seen from Figures 5 and 6 that the cell walls of this invention run No. 61 have a structure comprising polystyrene in the form of relatively simple lines and a polyethylene matrix wherein the lines are dispersed relatively in parallel, while as can be seen from Figures 7 and 8, the cell walls of the comparative example run No. 13 have the other structure wherein polystyrene component is dispersed in the form of zigzag lines in a polyethylene matrix. Figure 9 is a graph showing, via the solid line plot, the relation between the compressive stress and the compressive strain for the foam of Figures 5 and 6 Test No. 61 . For the purpose of comparison,Figure 9 also shows the relation between compressive stress and compressive strain for a polystyrene resin foam indicated by a one dot chain line and for a polyethylene resin foam indicated by a dotted line which were expanded to almost the same degree or density. From Figure 9, it is clear that the blend foam of the present invention which exhibits the aforementioned structure possesses far greater softness and higher recovery than the foam of polystyrene resin. In addition, it is also clear from Figure 9 that, in the range of low compressive stress, such blend foam of the present invention exhibits greater softness than the foam of polyethylene resin and, in the range of increased compressive stress, comes to retain a compressive deformation similar to the foam of polyethylene resin. Figure 10 and Figure 11 are graphs respectively showing the relation between closed cell ratio and water vapor permeability and the relationship between the surface uniformity peeling off ratio of area and the fabricability by routering and sawing of the foams of the present invention. In Figure 10, the higher water vapor permeability values are not desirable for the purposes of the present invention.In Figure 11, the higher numerical ratings for routering and sawing fabricability evidence better fabricability performance and are thus desirable for the purposes of the present invention. As can be seen from Figure 10 and Figure 11, the foams of such a dispersion state so as to have a closed cell ratio lower than 90 or having a peeling off ratio exceed the level of 5 with the surface uniformity rates not surpassing the mark A either exhibit higher water vapor permeability than acceptable and thus not having durable heat insulation property or suffer from heavy occurrence of burrs on the cut or severed surfaced of the foam Such foams are low in commercial value. Figure 12 and Figure 13 are graphs respectively showing the relation between creep and package stack crumbling tendency and relationship between the degradation of the repeated cushioning property and damage of articles packaged. In Figure 12, the higher numerical ratings for package stack crumbling tendency are more desirable for packaging or cushioning applications. InFigure 13, the lower numerical ratings for damage to package articles are desired for packaging or cushioning applications. As can be seen from Figures 12 and 13, foams in which the creep values exceed 6 and the degradation values of the repeated cushioning property exceed 40 are low in commercial value as cushioning materials. The foregoing results or parameters represent the practical scales or objectives to be met in the various evaluations involved in the present invention. As described hereinbefore, the flow properties for the individual resin components, the flow rate ratio R , and the quantitative PS PE ratio Y govern the proper selection of appropriate polymer composition feed stock for the foams of the present invention.Beyond that, however, the relation between the density D and compressive stress F is also important in attaining the cell structure properties including the shape and size of cells, thickness of the cell walls, the distribution of the cells as well as resin dispersion in the foam structure. All these factors cooperate to govern the foam s shock absorbing property and mechanical properties. Thus, the properties of the raw materials, the density D , and the compressive stress F may well be regarded as indices for the internal structure of the foams. In this connection, it should be noted that when the flow rate ratio R is relatively low i.e., toward the lower end of the above stated 7 to 90 range , then one should employ relatively lower quantitativePS PE ratios Y and relatively lower foam densities D than what one might otherwise employ i.e., in the case of relatively higher R value blend compositions . Table 7 shows the results of evaluating the foams of this invention and comparative foams such as commercial polystyrene polyethylene blend foams, polystyrene foams and polyethylene foams. As can be seen from the table, the foams of this invention were superior to any commercial polystyrene polyethylene blend foams in their overall combination of desirable properties i.e., creep resistance, loss of cushioning effectiveness due to repeated impact, compression recovery, solvent resistance and dimensional stability at elevated temperatures .Particularly beneficial features of the foams of this invention include their capability of exhibiting 90 percent or more of compression recovery and solvent resistance on the order of 10 volume percent or less dissolution in the described solvent resistance test. In the production of the ethylenic polymer styrenic polymer blend foam of this invention, the most important factor to be considered is in the selection of the proper blend of styrenic and ethylenic polymer resins. To be specific, 1 an ethylenic polymer resin with an MI in the range of from 0.2 to 2.5 g 10 minutes and styrenic polymer resin with an MFI in the range of from 1.4 to 18 g 10 minutes are combined in respective amounts such as to fulfil the requirements 2 that the flow rate ratio R fall in the range of from 7 to 90 and 3 that the quantitative PS PE ratio Y exceed at least 10.Then, the resultant blend is expanded by the use of a volatile organic blowing agent to produce a foam having the density D . The upper limit of the PS PE ratio Y is Y S 394.7 1.18R 294.1 log D In carrying out the process the styrenic polymer ethylenic polymer blend is mixed with a volatile organic blowing agent under elevated pressure and temperature to obtain a molten mixture, which is then cooled to a temperature suitable for foaming and extrusion foamed. In this process, it is convenient to use either a blend prepared by mixing the two pelletized or powdered resins homogeneously in a dry solid state or by kneading the pelletized or powdered resin mixture in a molten state, within the extruder. The selection of the volatile organic blowing agent is important. It should have a Kauri Butanol KB value as determined by ASTM D 1133 within the range of from 15 to 22. A typical blowing agent advantageously used is dichlorodifluoromethane KB value 18 . Blowing agents having KB values smaller or larger than the statedr ange such as dichlorotetrafluoroethane KB value 12 , monochlorodifluoromethane KB value 25 , and trichloromonofluoromethane KB value 60 all fail to accomplish the objects of this invention because they seriously impair the dispersibility in the resin blends of the present invention or heavily degrade the physical properties of the foam. The amount of the blowing agent generally falls in the range of from 15 to 35 parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of the resin blend.Within this range, the amount may be freely selected to achieve the foam density desired. The resin blend of this invention may also contain heat and light stabilizers, lubricants, and colorants. For to control cell size and distribution, the blend of this invention may further contain particulate additives such as inorganic carbonates, silicates, phosphates, metal salts of higher fatty acids, etc. as nucleating agents. In addition, chemical i.e., thermally decomposable blowing agents may be employed in conjunction with the above described volatile organic blowing agents.Brief Explanation Of The Drawings Figures 1 3 show the relationship between foam density D and ratio Y of polystyrene to polyethylene for each of the three different flow rate ratios R . As can be seen from Figures 1 3, the upper limit of the ratio Y in each figure is linearly related to the log of the foam density, D. Figure 4 is a graph showing the relationship between the 25 compressive strength F and the foam density D . As can be seen, the logs of the upper and lower limits of the compressive strength, F, are linearly related to the log of the foam density, D. Figures 5 8 are electron photomicrographs of cell walls of certain polyethylene polystyrene blend foams. Figures 5 and 7 show cell walls without solvent treatment and Figures 6 and 8 show cell walls from which polystyrene was removed by washing with a solvent. Figure 9 is a graph showing the relationship between the compressive stress and compressive strain for a commercial polystyrene foam, a commercial polyethylene foam and for a polyethylene polystyrene blend foam of the present invention. Figure 10 is a graph showing the relationship between water vapor permeability and closed cell ratio.As can be seen, water vapor permeability dramatically increases as the closed cell ratio is decreased below 90 volume percent. Figure 11 is a graph showing the relation between routering and sawing fabricability and peeling off ratio i.e., surface uniformity . As can be seen, suitability for routering and sawing fabrication methods and surface uniformity dramatically decrease as peel off ratio is increased beyond 3 to 5 surface area percent. Figure 12 is a graph showing the relation between package stack crumbling tendency and creep. As can be seen, the tendency for package stack crumbling worsens at creep values above 6 percent. Figure 13 is a graph showing the relation between damage of articles packaged and decrease in repeated cushioning property of the foam product.The propensity for damage of a packaged article is notably increased when the decrease in repeated cushioning property parameter exceeds 40 percent. The present invention is further illustrated and exemplified by the following Examples and ComparativeExamples. In these Examples the following testing and evaluation methods are employed ASTM American Society for Testing and Materials JIS Japanese IndustrialStandard 1. Melt Index MI of the Ethylenic Polymer Resins It was determined in accordance with ASTM D 1238 employing Test Conditions of D 190 C 2,160 grams . 2. Melt Flow Rate MFI of Styrenic Polymer Resins It was determined in accordance with ASTM D 1238 employing Test Conditions of G 2000C 5,000 grams . 3. Foam Density It was measured in accordance with JIS K 6767. 4. Compressive Strength It was measured in accordance with JIS K 6767. 5. Creep It was determined in accordance with JIS K 6767 under the conditions of 0.1 kg m2 load and 24 hour standing. 6. Repeated Cushioning Property It was determined in accordance with JIS Z0235 Related ASTM Designation D 1596 . Each specimen 50 mm thick was impacted with a series of 5 drops from the height of 60 cm. A maximum acceleration static stress curve was obtained respectively with regard to the first drop and the second through fifth drops and the maximum acceleration values were found out at optimum stress. Decrease ratio was calculated according to the following formula. Decrease ratio Maximum Accerleration of Maximum Accerlera Average 2 5 Drops tion of First Drop Maximum Acceleratlon x 100 of First Drop 7. Compression Recovery Ratio Foam specimens were compressed 80 percent at a rate of 10 mm minute by the use of a testing machine specified in JIS K 6767 and released at room temperature. The thickness of each specimen was measured 30 minutes after release of the applied compressive force.8. Solvent Resistance It was determined according to ASTM D 543. Foam specimens were dipped in toluene at 230C for 7 days and then the change of their volumes was measured.9. Closed Cell Ratio Determination was made in accordance with ASTM D 2856 by the use of an air pycnometer. 10. Surface Uniformity A self adhesive cellophane tape 20 mm wide and 120 mm long was applied on the skin of each foam specimen with a load of 0.5 kg cm2, leaving 20 mm end of the tape not applied in length for peeling off. The tape was peeled off from the skin 30 minutes after application at a speed of 100 mm minute at an angle of 180 degrees. Evaluation was made by the area of the skin peeled off with the tape as compared with the area of the tape applied on the skin. The evaluation results are expressed as follows. Peeling Off Ratio Symbol 0 5 or less 0 Over 5 to 20 A Over 20 x 11. External Appearance The smoothness and conditions of skin were evaluated by visual observation. Results were ranked as follows. Symbol Ranking Description O Smooth, without fluffy and cloudy appearance o Smooth, not fluffy but par tially cloudy A Smooth, but fluffy and cloudy x Rough, remarkably fluffy and totally cloudy Foams ranked 0 are required for cushioning applications while Rank O or higher is necessary for heat insulation. 12. Water Vapor Permeability It was determined in accordance with ASTM C 355 under the conditions which are as follows. Thickness of specimens 25 millimeters Temperature 30 degrees C Relative humidity 50 percent 13. Routering and Sawing Fabricability A Routering Foam specimens 50 mm thick were hollowed out at 4,000 rpm with a woodworking router. Visual evaluation was made by observing whether the specimens were routered well without production of fine splits, burrs and or skin turn ups. B Sawing Foam specimens 50 mm thick were severed at a speed of 1,000 m minute with a band saw having a scallop edge. Evaluation was made through observing the sections produced by severing, that is, visually examining if the specimens were well severed without production of burrs and or skin turn ups. Evaluation results are expressed as follows. Ranking Description Ranking Free from burrs and skin turn ups 5 Some burrs but no skin turn up 4 Conspicuous burrs and no skin turn up 3 Many burrs and no skin turn up i 2 Many burrs and many skin turn ups 1 In practical applications, foams ranked 4 or higher are required as cushioning materials, whereas foams ranked 3 or higher are needed as heat insulation materials.14. Package Stacking in Storage The relationship between package defomation and package stack crumbling tendency and creep of cushioning materials was examined. Audio amplifiers were packed in cases designed for obtaining optimum shock absorbing conditions by the use of cushioning materials. The packages containing the amplifiers were stacked at the height of ten packages for six months. Evaluation was made with regard to the creep of the cushioning materials used in the packages in the lowest layer. Stack crumbling tendency and the damage of the packages in the lowest layer owing to package deformation were also evaluated. Ranking Ranking Description Creep Package Deformation and Crumbling 4 5 or No package deformation and no less package stack crumbling 3 Over 5 Ditto to 10 2 Over 10 Slight package deformation but to 15 no package stack crumbling 1 Over 15 Packages were deformed and package stack was crumbled in some cases.15. Damage of Articles Packaged in Transportation Cocktail glasses were loaded on a truck, ten in each carton, five cartons high, transported 100 km and unloaded. This procedure was repeated three times and then the number of broken cocktail glasses was counted.16. Dimensional Stability at Elevated Temperature Used were foam specimens 10 mm thick, 50 mm wide and 200 mm long, which were measured accurately. The specimens were placed in an air circulation type heat chamber at 800C for 24 hours. The specimens were measured again 30 minutes after being taken out from the chamber. Evaluation was made by calculating out the average difference between the dimensions of the specimens before and after being heated.17. Resins Used in Examples and Comparative Examples The following tables show the resins used in examples and comparative examples. PolyethyleneMI Density g 10 min. g cc NoteA 0.2 0.9215 Trial product, made by Asahi Dow LimitedB 0.26 0.9215 Trial product, made by Asahi Dow LimitedC 0.3 0.9200 Yukalon HE 30, made by MitsubishiPetrochemical Co., Ltd.D 0.4 0.918 Polyethylene M 1804, mage by Asahi DowLimitedE 0.5 0.9210 Yukalon HE 60, made by MitsubishiPetrochemical Co., Ltd.F 0.66 0.9210 Trial product, made by Asahi Dow LimitedG 1.1 0.9240 Blend of Yukalon ZF 52 and NF 40, made by Mitsubishi Petrochemical Co., Ltd.H 2.6 0.9220 Polyethylene F 2225, made by Asahi DowLimitedI 0.15 0.9215 Trial product, made by Asahi Dow LimitedJ 3.0 0.9210 Polyethylene F 2130, made by Asahi DowLimited PolystyreneMFI g 10 min. NoteA 1.4 Trial product, made by Asahi Dow LimitedB 2.1 Styron GP 686, made by Asahi Dow LimitedC 5.4 Blend of Styron GP 666, GP 679, made by Asahi DowLimitedD 7.5 Styron GP 666, made by Asahi Dow LimitedE 18 Styron GP 679, made by Asahi Dow LimitedF 0.9 Trial product, made by Asahi Dow LimitedG 1.25 Trial product, made by Asahi Dow LimitedH 20 Trial product, made by Asahi Dow Limited Example 1 and Comparative Example 1 To an extruder having an inside diameter of 65 mm, 100 parts by weight of low density polyethyleneA and 20 parts by weight of polystyrene E were fed, melted and kneaded.Into the blend, 30 parts by weight, based on 100 parts by weight of the resultant blend, of dichlordifluoromethane hereinafter abbreviated asF 12 was injected. After the blend and the injected blowing agent had been melted and blended, the resultant blend was cooled to 1150C in a cooling device and then extrusion expanded through a circular die orifice 8 mm in diameter in the atmosphere. The produced foam was in the shape of a cylinder about 60 mm in diameter. It was a homogeneous foam having 20 kg m3 of density and 1.5 mm of average cell size. This is indicated as RunNo. 1. Various foams having about 20 kg cm2 of density and about 1.5 mm of average cell size were obtained by following the procedure decribed above except for changing the used resins to polystyrene resins A, B, C, D, F, G and H and polyethylene resinsB, C, D, F, G, H, I and J, with the flow rate R selected as indicated in Table 1. These foams were serially assigned Run Nos. 2 13. These foams together with the foam of Run No. 1 were tested for closed cell ratio, surface uniformity, and appearance by the respective methods indicated hereinbefore. The results were as shown in Table 1. It is noted from Table 1 that in order to satisfy the tests of closed cell ratio, surface uniformity, and appearance, i.e., in order to achieve a sufficiently homogeneous blended state , the respective blends of the foams should be composed of polyethylene resin having an MI in the range of from 0.2 to 2.6 g 10 min. and a polystyrene resin having an MFI in the range of from 1.4 to 18 g 10 min. at a flow rate ratio R falling within the range of from 7 to 90. The foams ofRun Nos. 1, 2, 5, 7, 11, and 12 were tested for water vapor permeability by the method set forth hereinbefore.Then, the relationship between the water vapor permeability and respective closed cell ratios for the individual foams was plotted. The results, showing water vapor permeability as a function of closed cell ratio are presented in Figure 10. From Figure 10, it is noted that in order to achieve a desirably low water vapor permeability e.g., as would be desired for heat insulation purposes , the foam should possess a closed cell ratio of 90 or more. In addition to the foregoing, the foams ofRun Nos. 1, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 12 were tested for fabricability by routering and sawing and for peeling off ratio by the methods set forth hereinbefore. By plotting the results of peeling off ratio and surface uniformity along one and the same horizontal axis against the results of routering and severing fabricability, there was obtained the graph of Figure 11. Figure 11 indicates that in order for the foam to enjoy good fabricability, the peeling off ratio should be less than 5 area corresponding to the mark of O or O in terms of surface uniformity . TABLE 1ClosedMFIRun MI of MFI of R Cell SurfaceMINo. Polyethylene Polystyrene Ratio Uniformity AppearanceExample 1 EMI24.1 tb 000000 tb 2 SEP 0.26 SEP 7.5 SEP 28.8 SEP 98 SEP 0 tb 3 SEP 0.66 SEP 18 SEP 27.3 SEP 96 SEP S SEP S tb 4 SEP 0.2 SEP 5.4 SEP 27 SEP 98 SEP S SEP S tb 000000 tb s SEP oo SEP s SEP ao SEP o SEP H tb SEP c SEP s SEP o tb SEP O SEP SEP SEP SEP rv tb SEP S SEP di SEP tb SEP N SEP N SEP tD SEP N SEP w0 SEP N tb SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP S SEP O tb SEP 1 SEP N SEP SEP di SEP tt SEP tD tb Comparative Example 1 EMI24.2 tb SEP dddXXXX tb SEP dxddxX tb SEP ur SEP o SEP o SEP S SEP o SEP o SEP o tb SEP 8 SEP 0.4 SEP 2.1 SEP 5.25 SEP 60 SEP c SEP A tb SEP 9 SEP 0.2 SEP 20 SEP 100 SEP 90 SEP A SEP A tb 10 SEP 0.15 SEP 18 SEP 120 SEP 75 SEP A SEP x tb S SEP 0.2 SEP 1.25 SEP 6.25 SEP Ln tb SEP aoc SEP c SEP o tb SEP . SEP . SEP . SEP . tb L000rm tb o SEP cs tb SEP Ln tb SEP In SEP H SEP S SEP O tb SEP SEP N SEP O SEP av SEP H SEP o SEP co tb SEP tn tb SEP H SEP H SEP c SEP s SEP n SEP o tb SEP H SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP n tb SEP 4 tb SEP SEP oo SEP O SEP o SEP H SEP s SEP X tb SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H tb Not examples of the present invention. Example 2 and Comparative Example 2 Foams were obtained by following the procedure of Example 1, except that polystyrenes A, B, D, E, andH and polyethylene A, B, and D were combined in amounts calculated to give component proportions Y of 20, 50, 40, and 100 and target foam density D was fixed at 10, 20, and 40 kg mS. The produced foams were serially assigned Run Nos. 14 29. The obtained foams were tested for closed cell ratio, surface uniformity, and appearance by the respective methods set forth hereinbefore. The results are shown together with the components in Table 2. TABLE 2Ratio Y ofRun MI of MFI of Polystyrene Foam Ratio SurfaceNo.Polyethylene Polystyrene R Value wt. parts 1 Density2 Uniformity Appearance Example 2 EMI26.1 tb SEP 00000000 tb 14 SEP 0.2 SEP 1.4 SEP 7.0 SEP 20 SEP 10 SEP 97 SEP S SEP 0 tb Lnodmtg tb 16 SEP 0.2 SEP 18 SEP 90 SEP 20 SEP 40 SEP 90 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb 17 SEP 0.2 SEP 18 SEP 90 SEP 100 SEP 20 SEP 94 SEP 0 SEP S tb 18 SEP 0.2 SEP 18 SEP 90 SEP 100 SEP 10 SEP 93 SEP S SEP 0 tb N SEP Ln SEP O SEP ds SEP n SEP b SEP qD SEP tb 20 SEP 0.26 SEP 7.5 SEP 28.8 SEP 40 SEP 20 SEP 96 SEP S SEP S tb o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o tb SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o tb SEP cs SEP cs SEP N SEP o SEP o SEP s SEP SEP o tb SEP o SEP oo tb SEP b SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP aD SEP a tb SEP SEP ur SEP S SEP Ln tb SEP SEP ao SEP co SEP SEP SEP r tb SEP 1 SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o tb SEP SEP o SEP H tb Comparative Example 2 EMI26.2 tb SEP XXXXXXXX tb SEP XXXXXXXX tb SEP OiniOOOOOO tb o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o tb 23 SEP 0.4 SEP 2.1 SEP 5.25 SEP 20 SEP 40 SEP 55 SEP x SEP x tb 24 SEP 0.2 SEP 20 SEP 100 SEP 20 SEP 10 SEP 45 SEP x SEP x tb o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o tb NI VCVLnV LnLn tb 27 SEP 0.4 SEP 2.1 SEP 5.25 SEP 50 SEP 40 SEP 40 SEP x tb 28 SEP 0.2 SEP 20 SEP 100 SEP 50 SEP 10 SEP 30 SEP x SEP tb N SEP 0.2 SEP 20 SEP 100 SEP 50 SEP 40 SEP 50 SEP x SEP x tb SEP n SEP Ln SEP o SEP o SEP ur SEP Ln SEP o SEP o tb SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O tb SEP cs SEP N SEP O SEP O SEP CM SEP N SEP O SEP O tb SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O tb Not an example of the present invention.1Per 100 parts by weight of polyethylene.2D, in kg meter3 It is seen from Table 2 that even when the melt indexes and melt flow rates of the individual resin components fall within the claimed range and when the component proportion Y of the blend of two resins and the foam density D fall within the claimed range, the foam fails to acquire good quality unless the flow rate ratio R satisfies the relation of 7 S R S 90.Example 3 and Comparative Example 3 A resin blend obtained by uniformly blending 100 parts by weight of low density polyethylene A, 10 parts by weight of polystyrene E and 0.05 part by weight of talc in a tumbler was melted and kneaded in an extruder having an inside diameter of 65 mm. Dichlorodifluoromethane F 12 was injected into the extruder and admixed therein with the resin blend. The resultant blend was cooled to 1150C by being passed through a cooling device. The cooled blend was extrusion foamed through a die orifice 8 mm in diameter into the atmosphere. Consequently, there was obtained a foam having 10 kg m3 of density and about 1.3 mm of average cell size Run No. 30 . Secondly, foams having 15, 20, 30, and 40 kg m3 of density were obtained by following the procedure decribed above, except that the amount of the blowing agent varied Run Nos. 31 34 . Other foams were obtained by using 5, 20, 30, 50, 65, 100, 110, 115, 150, and 160 parts by weight of polystyrene per 100 parts by weight of polyethylene and adjusting the extrusion foaming so as to give 8, 10, 15, 20, 30, 40, and 50 kg m3 of foam density Run Nos. 35 56 . The foams thus obtained were tested for closed cell ratio, surface uniformity, appearance, 25 compression strength, and creep. The results are shown in Table 3. The results of the tests for appearance, surface uniformity, and closed cell ratio given inTable 3 were obtained in the same manners as shown inExample 1 and overall rating is expressed as follows.Overall SurfaceRating Closed Cell Ratio Uniformity Appearance 0 90 or higher O 0 O 0 A Over 90 to 85 0 A x Not satisfying the conditions given above TABLE 3AppearanceSurfaceUniformityRatio 25 and Y of Foam Compressive ClosedRun MI of MFI of R Polystyrene Density Strength Creep CellNo.Polyethylene Polystyrene Value wt. parts 1 D 2 kg cm2 RatioExample 3 30 0.2 18 90 10 10 0.19 8.0 0 31 0.2 18 90 10 15 0.29 6.0 0 32 0.2 18 90 10 20 0.41 3.5 0 33 0.2 18 90 10 30 0.65 2.2 0 34 0.2 18 90 10 40 0.91 1.3 0 35 0.2 18 90 20 15 0.34 5.0 0 36 0.2 18 90 20 20 0.48 3.1 0 37 0.2 18 90 20 30 0.76 1.5 0 38 0.2 18 90 20 40 1.08 1.0 0 39 0.2 18 90 29 40 1.65 0.9 0 40 0.2 18 90 50 10 0.33 5.0 0 41 0.2 18 90 50 20 0.75 1.4 0 42 0.2 18 90 65 30 1.20 0.9 0 1Per 100 weight parts polyethylene 2kg m3 Table 3 Con dAppearanceSurfaceUniformityRatio 25 and Y of Foam Compressive ClosedRun MI of MFI of R Polystyrene Density Strength Creep CellNo.Polyethylene Polystyrene Value wt. parts D kg cm2 Ratio 43 0.2 18 90 100 10 0.5 5.0 0 44 0.2 18 90 100 20 1.2 0.7 0 45 0.2 18 90 110 20 0.85 1.7 0 46 0.2 18 90 115 20 0.91 0.9 0 47 0.2 18 90 150 15 0.75 2.5 0Comparative Example 3 48 0.2 18 90 5 10 x 49 0.2 18 90 5 20 x 50 0.2 18 90 5 30 x 51 0.2 18 90 10 8 0.14 25 52 0.2 18 90 10 50 x 53 0.2 18 90 100 8 0.30 14 54 0.2 18 90 100 30 x 55 0.2 18 90 150 20 x 56 0.2 18 90 160 15 x Not an example of the present invention. Not an example of the present invention due to failure to satisfy the requirement that the 25 compressive strength be between 0.013D1.15 and 0.024D1.15. Example 4 and Comparative Example 4 The procedure of Example 3 and ComparativeExample 3 was repeated, except that the resins used were replaced by polyethylene B and polystyrene D. The foams thus obtained were tested for physical properties.The results are shown in Table 4.Example 5 and Comparative Example 5 The procedure of Example 3 and ComparativeExperiment 3 was repeated, except that the resin used was a blend of polyethylene A and polystyrene A. The foams thus obtained were tested for physical properties.The results are shown in Table 5. TABLE 4AppearanceSurfaceUniformityRatio 25 and Y of Foam Compressive ClosedRun MI of MFI of R Polystyrene Density Strength Creep CellNo. Polyethylene Polystyrene Value wt. parts 1 D 2 kg cm2 RatioExample 4 56 0.26 7.5 28.8 10 10 0.18 8.0 0 57 0.26 7.5 28.8 10 15 0.29 6.0 0 58 0.26 7.5 28.8 10 20 0.41 3.4 0 59 0.26 7.5 28.8 10 25 0.54 2.8 0 60 0.26 7.5 28.8 20 15 0.33 4.5 0 61 0.26 7.5 28.8 20 20 0.48 2.5 0 62 0.26 7.5 28.8 30 20 0.66 2.2 0 63 0.26 7.5 28.8 40 20 0.68 2.3 0 64 0.26 7.5 28.8 80 15 0.47 3.2 0 65 0.26 7.5 28.8 120 10 0.5 4.8 0 66 0.26 7.5 28.8 130 10 0.54 4.9 0Comparative Example 4 67 0.26 7.5 28.8 5 10 x 68 0.26 7.5 28.8 5 20 x 69 0.26 7.5 28.8 10 8 0.12 24 70 0.26 7.5 28.8 10 30 x 71 0.26 7.5 28.8 50 20 x 72 0.26 7.5 28.8 100 8 0.29 15 73 0.26 7.5 28.8 100 15 x 74 0.26 7.5 28.8 150 10 x Not an example of the present invention.1Per 100 wt. parts polyethylene 2kg m3 TABLE 5AppearanceSurfaceUniformityRatio 25 and Y of Foam Compressive ClosedRun MI of MFI of R Polystyrene Density Strength Creep CellNo. Polyethylene Polystyrene Value wt. parts 1 D 2 kg cm2 RatioExample 5 75 0.2 1.4 7 10 10 0.19 8.0 0 76 0.2 1.4 7 10 15 0.29 6.0 0 77 0.2 1.4 7 10 20 0.41 3.3 0 78 0.2 1.4 7 20 15 0.33 5.0 0 79 0.2 1.4 7 20 20 0.48 3.2 0 80 0.2 1.4 7 50 15 0.47 3.2 0 81 0.2 1.4 7 100 10 0.48 4.8 0Comparative Example 5 82 0.2 1.4 7 5 10 x 83 0.2 1.4 7 5 20 x 84 0.2 1.4 7 10 8 0.12 25 85 0.2 1.4 7 10 25 x 86 0.2 1.4 7 50 20 x 87 0.2 1.4 7 70 15 x 88 0.2 1.4 7 100 8 0.15 20 89 0.2 1.4 7 120 15 x Not an example of the present invention.1 Per 100 wt. parts of polyethylene.2 d, kg m3 . Figures 1, 2 and 3, which are based upon the data in Tables 3, 4 and 5, show the relationship between quantitative PS PE ratio Y and foam density D in each flow rate ratio. In the figures, the marks 0, A and x are identical with the ones in the tables. According to this invention, the quantitativePS PE ratio Y which is required for homogeneously mixed state in cell walls varies with the flow rate ratio R as shown in Figures 1, 2 and 3 wherein is 90, 28.8 or 7. It is noted from the figures that a rule exists in the relationship, which is expressed by the following formula 10 c Y S 394.7 1.18R 294.1 log D wherein D ranges from 10 to 40 kg m3.Example 6 and Comparative Example 6 A total of 17 typical foams conforming to the present invention Run Nos. 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 37, 39, 40, 41, 42, 46, 47, 59, 60, 61, 62, and 80 and the comparative foams Run Nos. 51 and 53 indicated inExamples 3 5 and Comparative Example 3 and three additional foams Run Nos. 90, 91 and 92 which were produced as described below were tested for creep and decrease in repeated cushioning property according to the respective methods hereinbefore described. The results are shown in Table 6.Run No. 90 A foam having 20 kg m3 of density and about 1.2 mm of average cell size was obtained by repeating the procedure of Example 3, except that 100 parts by weight of polyethylene A and 20 parts by weight of polystyrene B were used and that trichloromonofluoromethane F ll was used as the blowing agent. Run Nos. 91 and 92 Two foams each having an average cell size of about 1.2 mm in diameter, and having different densities i.e., 20 kg m3 for Run No. 91 and 34 kg m3 for Run No.92 were obtained by repeating the procedure of Example 3, except that 100 parts by weight of polyethylene E and 53.8 parts by weight of polystyrene E were used and that F ll was used as the blowing agent. These three foams were allowed to stand in the air at 400C for one day following their production to ensure full recovery from shrinkage, and thereafter subjected to the aforementioned creep and cushioning testing. By plotting the results of the overall rating given in Table 6 in terms of the relation between the foam density D and the 25 compressive strength F , there was obtained a graph shown in Figure 4. It is seen from Figure 4 that even when the individual component resins have the proper melt index and melt fl6w rates and even when such individual components are blended in the proportion specified by this invention, the foam does not fulfil the objects of this invention unless the relation between D and F , i.e., the structural index of the foam, falls within the following range. 0.024D1 .15 1 F 0.013D1 15 wherein, D is in the range of from 10 to 40 kg m3. TABLE 6Foam 25 Drop of PracticalSample Foam Compressive Repeated PerformanceRun Density Strength Creep Cushioning OverallNumber kg m3 kg cm2 Property Rating 51 8 0.14 25 80 x 53 8 0.30 14 82 x 30 10 0.19 8.0 45 0 40 10 0.33 5.0 47 0 31 15 0.29 6.0 21 60 15 0.33 4.5 15 80 15 0.47 3.2 16 47 15 0.75 2.5 75 x 32 20 0.41 3.5 15 61 20 0.48 2.5 18 62 20 0.66 2.2 21 41 20 0.75 2.0 30 59 25 0.54 2.8 19 33 30 0.65 2.2 21 37 30 0.76 1.5 19 42 30 1.20 0.9 40 Not an example of the present invention. Not an example of the present invention. The 25 compressive strength does not meet the requirements of being between 0.013D1.15 and 0.024D1.15 TABLE 6 Con d Foam 25 Drop of PracticalSample Foam Compressive Repeated PerformanceRun Density Strength Creep Cushioning OverallNumber kg m3 kg cm2 Property Rating 34 40 0.91 1.3 45 0 39 40 1.65 0.9 50 0 46 20 0.91 0.9 57 x 90 20 0.20 8.0 55 x 91 34 0.50 7.0 70 x 92 20 0.30 10.0 68 x Not an example of the present invention.The 25 compressive strength does not meet the requirements of being between 0.013D1.15 and 0.024D1.15 Comparative Example 7 A polymerization vessel containing 200 parts by weight of water was charged with 100 parts by weight of low density polyethylene 0.26 of MI and 0.9215 of density , 100 parts by weight of styrene monomer, 0.9 part of weight of magnesium pyrophosphate, 0.04 part by weight of sodium dodecylbenzene sulfonate, and 1 part by weight of benzoyl peroxide. The air in the vessel was displaced by nitrogen gas. The mixture in the vessel was stirred at 800C for one hour, then heated to 900C and retained at this temperautre for two hours, subsequently heated to 1100C and retained at this temperature for four hours to polymerize the styrene impregnated into the polyethylene.The polymerization mixture was cooled, dehydrated, washed with water, and dried to afford resin particles substantially spherical of about 2 mm in diameter having polystyrene resin, blended in polyethylene resin. The resin blend particles consisted of 100 parts by weight of polyethylene resin and 100 parts by weight of polystyrene resin. In a tumbler, 100 parts by weight of the resin blend obtained as described above, 100 parts by weight of low density polyethylene 0.26 of MI and 0.9215 of density , 0.1 part by weight of polybutene, and 0.5 part by weight of talc were thoroughly mixed.The resultant mixture was fed to an extruder having an inside diameter of 65 mm. Into this mixture, 30 parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of the resin of dichlorodifluoromethane blowing agent F 12 was injected and admixed therewith in the extruder. The resultant blend was cooled to 1150C by being sent through a cooling device. The cooled blend was extrusion foamed via a die orifice 8 mm in diameter into the atmosphere. Consequently, there was obtained a cylindrical foam which had a density of 20 kg m3. This foam was tested for the properties by the respective methods described hereinbefore. The results are shown in Table 7 Run No. 93 .Comparative Example 8 The commercially available molded foams described below were tested for properties. The results are shown in Table 7. TABLE 7Foam Material Producer Shape and Size ApplicationFoam obtained3 Polyethylene poly S Company1 50 mm thickness Cushioning by molding styrene blend resin x 500 mm x 500 mm and heat expandable wherein the component board insulation beads proportion of polystyrene is 67 parts by weight per 100 parts by weight of polyethylene2Foam obtained Polystyrene K Company4 50 mm thickness Cushioning by molding x 500 mm x 500 mm expandable board beadsPolyethylene Polyethylene A Company5 50 mm thickness Cushioning foam x 500 mm x 500 mm and heat board insulation 1 S Company is Sekisui Plastics Co., Ltd.2 The polymer blend of this foam is of the type prepared by polymerizing styrene monomer impregnated in pre formed polyethylene beads.3 The compressive strength of this foam sample was 1.4 kg cm2.4 This foam sample was obtained commercially. The manufacturer of such foam is unknown.5 A Company is Asahi Dow, Limited. Comparative Example 9 Low density polyethylene 0.26 of MI and 0.9215 of density was extrusion foamed through an extruder having an inside diameter of 65 mm. In this case, 2 parts by weight of stearamide was used as an anti shrinkage agent to preclude shrinkage of the foam produced and the blowing agent employed was dichlorodifluoromethane F 12 in an amount of 30 parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of polyethylene.Consequently, there was obtained a foam having 25 kg m3 of density and 1.5 mm of average cell size. When the polyethylene resin alone was used, the foam could not be molded uniformly when the density was lower than 25 kg m3. The foam obtained as described above was tested for properties by the respective methods hereinbefore described. The results are shown in Table 7. The foams of this invention indicated inExample 3 Run No. 42 and Example 4 Run Nos. 61 and 62 and the foams of Comparative Example 6 Run No. 90 and Comparative Example 7 Run No. 93 were also tested for creep, drop of repeated cushioning property, compression recovery, solvent resistance, and dimensional stability to elevated temperatures. The results are shown inTable 7. From Table 7, it is seen that the foams of the present invention excel in creep and repeated cushioning property and exhibit not less than 90 of compression recovery and not more than 10 of solvent resistance, the values favorably comparable with those obtainable by the foam produced solely of polyethylene resin. Besides, they exhibit not more than 5 of change of size by heat, the value excelling that obtainable by the foam produced solely of polyethylene resin. In addition, the foams of this invention are superior to the foams produced of the conventional polyethylene polystyrene resin blend in terms of compression recovery and solvent resistance. Foams possessing all these outstanding properties have not been previously known. The cause of such properties is not fully understood. However, they may result from the resin blend being distributed in the cell walls of the foam in a novel manner to give a foam structure entirely unlike those known in the art. TABLE 7Ratio Drop of Y of Foam Repeated Compression Solvent Change ofPolystyrene Density Creep Cushioning Recovery Resistance Size BySpecimen Wt. Parts1 kg m3 Property vol. Heat No. 61 20 20 2.5 18 98 7.0 5No. 62 30 20 2.2 21 98 7.5 3No. 93 25 20 2.7 58 80 30 4No. 90 20 20 8.0 55 80 30 7No. 42 65 30 0.9 40 93 8.0 1Product ofS Company 67 32.5 0.8 79 70 32 1ComparativeSamplesComparativeExample 9 0 25 8.0 11 95 11 24Product ofA Company 0 41 2.0 38 95 9.5 14Product ofK Company 100 poly 20 1.0 100 70 Dissolved F1 styrene Not an example of the present invention. 1 Per 100 parts by weight of polyethylene. Figure 9 shows the relationship between compressive stress and compressive strain with regard to the foam of Run No. 61, and commercial polystyrene foam and polyethylene foam of which expansion ratio was almost the same as that of Run No. 61 foam of this invention. It is seen from Figure 9 that the foam of the present invention is softer than the foam of polystyrene and has better in compression recovery than the polystyrene foam. In addition, Figure 9 also shows that the foam of this invention shows greater flexibility than the foam of polyethylene so long as the compressive stress is in a low range and deforms with growing compressive stress like the polyethylene foam but exhibits higher compression recovery than the foam of polyethylene.