# Antiinflammatory 4,5 diaryl alpha,alpha bis polyhalomethyl 2 thiophenemethanamines.

## Abstract
4,5 Diaryl α,α bis polyhalomethyl 2 thiophene methanamines, such as 4,5 bis 4 fluorophenyl α,α bis trifluoromethyl 2 thiophenemethanamine, useful for treat ing arthritis and or alleviating pain. Related Application This application is a continuation in part of my copend ing application U.S. Serial No. 288,994, filed August 5, 1981, which is a continuation in part of U.S. Serial No. 220,772, filed December 29, 1980.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A compound of the formulaEMI18.1 where R1 and R2 independently CF3, CF2H, CFC12, CF2C1, CC1FH or CC12H R3 and R4 independently pyridyl orEMI18.2 where X H, F, C1, Br, N02, C1 C2 alkyl, OR7, N R7 2 or R75 O n where n 0, 1 or 2 Y H, F or C1 with the proviso that when Y is F or C1, then X is F, C1 or H R5 H or alkyl of 1 3 carbons R6 H or alkyl of 1 3 carbons and or a pharmaceutically suitable acid addition salt thereof. 2. A compound of Claim 1 where R6 H. 3. A compound of Claim 2 where R1 and R2 independently CF3, CF2H, CFC12, CF2C1, CC1FH or CC12H R3 and R4 independently pyridyl orEMI18.3 where X H, F, C1, Br, NO2, C1 C2 alkyl, OR7, N R7 2 or R7S O n where n 0, 1 or 2 Y H, F or C1 with the proviso that when Y is F or C1, then X is F or C1 R5 H and R alkyl of 1 2 carbons. 7 4. A compound of Claim 3 wherein at least one of R1 and R2 CF3. 5. A compound of Claim 3 wherein R3 and R4 independently EMI19.1 where X H, F, Br, C1, CH30, CH3 2N, CH3S O n where n 0, 1 or 2 and Y H. 6. A compound of Claim 3 wherein at least one of R1 and R2 CF3 andR3 and R4 independently EMI19.2 whereX H, F, Br, C1, CH3O, CH3 2N, CH3S O n where n 0, 1 or 2 andY H. 7. A compound of Claim 3 wherein R1 andR2 CF3. 8. A compound of Claim 3 wherein R3 and R4 independently EMI20.1 where X H, F, C1, CH3S or CH30 and Y H. 9. A compound of Claim 3 whereinR1 and R2 CF3 andR3 and R4 independently EMI20.2 where X F or CHATS and Y H. 10. The compounds of claim 2 which are 4,5 bis 4 fluorophenyl alpha , alpha bis trifluoromethyl 2 thiophene methanamine and 4 4 fluorophenyl 5 4 methylthio phenyl d,d bis trifluoromethyl 2 thiophenemethanamine . 11. A pharmaceutical composition consisting lessen tially of a suitable pharmaceutical carrier and an effective antiinflammatory amount of a compound of claims 1 10. 12. A process for preparing a compound of claim 1 which comprises a contacting a compound of the formula EMI21.1 whereR3, R4 and R6 are as defined in Claim 1 and Y is H or Br, with a suitable strong base or other metallating agent and then contacting the resultant intermediate with a polyhalogenated ketone imineEMI21.2 where R1 and R2 are as defined in Claim 1 and R5 C1 C3 alkyl or CH3 3Si and b when R5 CH3 3Si contacting the product with acid and c optionally contacting the product of step b with an alkylating agent and optionally d converting the product of steps a , b or c into a pharmaceutically suitable acid addition salt. 13. A process for preparing a compound of Claim 1 which comprises a sequentially contacting a compound of the formula EMI21.3 with i a suitable strong base or other metallating agent i4 a polyhalogenated ketone imineEMI22.1 iii a suitable strong base or other matallating agent and iv an alkyl ating reagent R6,L where R1 R4 are as defined in Claim 1, R51 C1 C3 alkyl or CH3 3Si, R6 is C1 C3 alkyl and L is a suitable leaving group and b when R5 CH3 3Si contacting the product with acid and c optionally contacting the product of step b with an alkylating agent and optionally d converting the product of steps a , b or c into a pharmaceutically suitable acid addition salt.

## Description
Title Antiinflammatory 4,5 Diaryl a, cx bis polyhalomethyl 2 thiophenemethanamines Background of the Invention This invention relates to antiinflammatory diaryl thiophenes. A number of references, such as Compt. Rend., 242, 1738 1956 and Z. Chem., 13, 57 1973 , disclose the preparation of 2,3 diarylthiophenes. G. F. Il in, et al. in J. Org. Chem. USSR , 15, 2012 1979 disclose the reaction of thiophene withN methylsulfonylhexafluoroacetone imine to give N methanesulfonyl a, bis trifluoromethyl 2 thio phenemethanamine. No biological activity is reported for this compound There is a continuing need for safe and effective antiinflammatory agents. Inflammation is a disease process characterized by redness, fever, swelling, and pain. Arthritis, in its various forms, is the most prevalent, chronic, and severe of the inflammatory diseases. Traumatic injury and infection also involve inflammation, and antiinflammatory drugs are often used in their treatment. The usefulness of most commercial antiinflammatories is limited because of toxicity and adverse side effects.Many produce gastric irritation and other effects, such as changes in blood cells and central nervous system. Adreno cortical steroids produce gastric irritation and suppression of normal adrenal function. The present invention results from efforts to develop new antiarthritic compounds with good antiinflammatory activity and minimal side effects that could be more effective in treating arthritis than presently available drugs. In addition to antiinflammatory properties, some compounds of this invention have analgesic activity.This additional property is desirable in treatment of arthritis or related diseases however, such compounds can be employed solely to alleviate pain. Summary of the Invention This invention relates to novel antiinflammatory compounds of Formula I.EMI2.1 where R1 and R2 independently CF3, CF2H, CFCl2, CF2C1, CC1FH or CCl2H R3 and R4 independently pyridyl orEMI2.2 where X H, F, C1, Br, NO2, C1 C2 alkyl, OR7, N R7 2 or R7S O n where n 0, 1 or 2 V H, F or C1 with the proviso that when Y is F or C1, then X is F, C1 or H R5 H or alkyl of 1 3 carbons R6 H or alkyl of 1 3 carbons and R7 alkyl of 1 2 carbons or a pharmaceutically suitable acid addition salt thereof. Preferred compounds for utility considerations and or ease of synthesis are where R5 and R6 H and a at least one of R1 and R2 CF3 or b R3 and R4 independently EMI3.1 where X H, F, Br, C1, CH30, CH3 2N, CH35 0 n where n 0, 1 or 2 and Y H. More preferred compounds are where R5 and R H and a R1 and R2 CF3 or b R3 and R4 independently EMI3.2 where X H, F, C1, CH3S or CH30 and Y H.Most preferred compounds are where R1 and R2 CF3 andR3 and R4 independently EMI3.3 where X F or CH3S Y H andR5 and R6 H. Specifically preferred compounds are 4,5 bis 4 fluorophenyl cx, cx bis trifluoromethyl 2 thiophenemethanamine and 4 4 fluorophenyl 5 4 methylthiophenyl a,a bis tri fluoromethyl 2 thiophenemethanamine.Synthesis The compounds of the invention may be prepared by the following reactions Method AEMI4.1 A 2,3 diarylthiophene II is reacted with a strong base such as n butyl lithium or t butyl lithium in an aprotic solvent such as tetrahydrofuran, diethyl ether or toluene optionally in the presence of a complexing agent such as tetramethylethylenediamine and then treated with a N silylated halogenated ketone imine. The reaction can be carried out at a temperature from 780 to 1100. The product from the previous step is then treated with aqueous acid at a temperature from 0 to 1000 to give compound Ia. Method BEMI5.1 A 2 bromo 4,5 diarylthiophene III is treated with a strong base such as n butyl lithium or t butyl lithium in an aprotic solvent such as tetrahydrofuran, diethyl ether or toluene optionally in the presence of a complexing agent such as tetramethylethylenediamine at a temperature from 780 to 400C, preferably at 300 to 300C. The resultant lithio thiophene is treated with a N silyated halogenated ketone imine at a temperature from 780 to 1100 and then treated with aqueous acid at a temperature from 0 to 1000 to give compound Ia. 2 Bromo 4,5 diarylthiophenes are prepared by the reaction of a 2,3 diarylthiophene II with bromine 1 equivalent in a solvent such as methylene chloride, acetic acid or their mixture at a temperature from 200 to 300. Method CEMI5.2 A 2,3 diarylthiophene II is reacted with a strong base such as n butyl lithium or t butyl lithium in an aprotic solvent such as tetrahydrofuran, diethyl ether or toluene optionally in the presence of a complexing agent such as tetramethylethylenediamine and then treated with a N alkylated halogenated ketone imine to give compound Ib. The reaction can be carried out at a temperature from 780 to 1000C. Method DEMI6.1 A 2 bromo 4,5 diarylthiophene is treated with a strong base such as n butyl lithium or t butyl lithium in an aprotic solvent such as tetrahydrofuran, diethyl ether or toluene optionally in the presence of a complexing agent such as tetramethylethylenediamine at a temperature from 780 to 400C, preferably at 300 to 300C. The resultant lithio thiophene is treated with a N alkylated ketone imine at a temperature from 780 to 1100C to give compound Ib. Method EEMI7.1 Compound Ia in an aprotic solvent such as tetrahydrofuran or dimethylformamide is treated with an alkylating agent such as methyl iodide or.dimethyl sulfate in the presence of a base such as n butyl lithium or sodium hydride to give compound Ib.Method FEMI7.2 A dibromothiophene of structure IV in an aprotic solvent such as diethyl ether or tetrahydrofuran at a temperature from 780 to 350C is metallated with a reagent such as n butyl lithium or magnesium and then treated with a N silylated halogenated ketone imine. The resultant intermediate is further treated with a reagent such as n butyl lithium or magnesium and then with an alkylating agent. Treatment with aqueous acid at a temperature from 0 to 1000 then gives compoundIa. 2,3 Dibromo 4,5 diarylthiophenes IV are prepared by reaction of a 2,3 diarylthiophene with bromine 2 equivalents in a solvent mixture such as methylene chloride and acetic acid at a temperature from 100 to 550. The compounds of the invention and their synthesis are illustrated further by the following examples. All temperatures are in degrees Centigrade. Example 1 4,5 Bis 4 methoxyphenyl a, cx bis trifluoromethyl 2 thiophenemethanamine 2,3 Bis 4 methoxyphenyl thiophene 2.96 g, 10 mmole was dissolved in 75 ml toluene and the volume reduced by approximately two thirds by distillation.The cooled solution was diluted with 100 ml diethyl ether, cooled to 0 and treated with 1.6 M n butyl lithium 7 ml, 11 mmole . The reaction mixture was heated at reflux for 1.5 hours, cooled to 0 and treated dropwise with a solution of N trimethylsilyl hexafluoroacetone imine 2.8 g, 12 mmole in 5 ml diethyl ether. The reaction mixture was stirred for 4 hours at 0 and then quenched with water. The aqueous phase was extracted with ethyl acetate and the combined organics washed with brine, dried and concentrated on the rotary evaporator. The residue was dissolved in 100 ml ethanol, treated with 20 ml 1N HC1 and heated at reflux for 20 minutes. The ethanol was removed in vacuo and the residue extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic extracts were washed with saturated aqueous NaHC03, 1N NaOH, and brine, dried and concentrated on the rotary evaporator. Chromatography on silica gel and recrystallization from hexanes gave the title compound 2.36 g , m.p. 87 900. Infrared and proton NMR spectra were consistent with the assigned structure. MS 461 M , 392 M CF3 . Anal. Calcd. for C21H17N02SF6 C, 54.66 H, 3.71 N, 3.04 Found C, 54.5 H, 3.81 N, 3.02. Using the appropriate N silyated halogenated ketone imine, the following compounds can be prepared following the procedures outlined above and illustrated in the preceding example. Table IEMI9.1 Ex. R R R R R No. 1 2 3 4 6 m.p. 0C 1 CF3 CF3 4 CH30 phenyl 4 CH30 phenyl H 87 90 2 CF3 CF3 4 F phenyl 4 F phenyl H 79 820 3 CF3 CF3 4 F phenyl 4 CH3S phenyl H CF3 4 Cphenyl l091100 4 CF3 CF3 4 F phenyl 4 Cl phenyl H 68 720 5 CF3 CF3 phenyl phenyl H 65 67 6 CF3 CF2C1 4 F phenyl 4 F phenyl H oil 7 CF3 CF2H 4 F phenyl 4 F phenyl H oil 8 CF3 CF3 4 F phenyl 4 CH3 2N phenyl H 9 CF3 CF2H 4 F phenyl 4 Br phenyl H 10 CF2C1 CF2C1 4 F phenyl 4 CH3SO phenyl H 11 CF3 CF3 4 F phenyl 4 CH3S02 phenyl H 12 CF 3 CF3 4 N02 phenyl 4 F phenyl .H 13 CF3 CF3 4 CH3 phenyl 4 CH3 phenyl H 82 830 14 CF3 CF3 phenyl 3,4 C12 phenyl H 15 CF2C1 CC1FH 4 F phenyl 4 F phenyl H 16 CF3 CC12H 4 F phenyl 4 F phenyl H 17 CF3 CFC12 4 F phenyl 4 F phenyl H 18 CF3 CF3 2 F phenyl 2 F phenyl H oil 19 CF3 CF3 4 F phenyl 2,4 F2 phenyl H 20 CF3 CF3 4 F phenyl 2,3 F2 phenyl H 21 CF3 CF2C1 4 F phenyl 2 F,3 Cl phenyl H 22 CF3 CF3 4 F phenyl 2 F,4 Cl phenyl H 23 CF3 CF3 4 F phenyl 4 F phenyl CH3 24 CF3 CF3 4 F phenyl 4 F phenyl n C3H7 25 CF3 CF3 3 pyridyl 4 F phenyl H 26 CF3 CF3 4 F phenyl 2 pyridyl H 27 CF3 CF3 4 pyridyl 4 F phenyl H Example 28 l 4,5 Bis 4 fluorophenyl thiophen 2 y1 2,2,2 tri fluoro l trifluoromethyl N methylethanamine A solution of 2,3 bis 4 fluorophenyl thiophene 5.4 g, 20 mmole in 150 ml diethyl ether 30 ml toluene was cooled to 100 and treated with 1.6M n butyl lithium 15 ml, 1.2 equiv. . The reaction mixture was heated at reflux for 1.5 hours, cooled to 00 and treated dropwise with a solution of N methyl hexafluoroacetone imine 4.3 g, 1.2 equiv. in 10 ml diethyl ether. The reaction mixture was stirred for 3 hours at 0 and then quenched with water. The aqueous phase was extracted with ethyl acetate and the combined organics washed with brine, dried and concentrated on the rotary evaporator.Chromatography on silica gel using the Waters PrepLC System 500 liquid chromatograph gave the title compound 1.9 g as an oil. Infrared and proton NMR spectra were consistent with the assigned structure.MS 451 M , 382 M CF3 . Using the appropriate N alkylated halogenated ketone imine, the following compounds can be prepared following the procedures outlined above and illustrated in the preceding example. Table IIEMI11.1 Ex. R R R R RNo. R1 2 R3 4 5 m.p. C 28 CF3 CF3 4 F phenyl 4 F phenyl CH3 oil 29 CF3 CF2H 4 F phenyl 4 F phenyl CH3 30 CF3 CF2Cl 4 F phenyl 4 F phenyl CH3 31 CF2C1 CF2Cl 4 F phenyl 4 F phenyl C2H5 32 CF3 CF3 phenyl phenyl C2H5 33 CF3 CF3 4 F phenyl 4 F phenyl n C3H7 34 CF3 CF3 4 F phenyl 4 F phenyl A C3H7 Dosage Forms The anti arthritic agents and or analgesic agents of this invention can be administered to treat arthritis and or alleviate pain by any means that produces contact of the active agent with the agent s site of action in the body of a mammal. They can be administered by any conventional means available for use in conjunction with pharmaceuticals either as individual therapeutic agents or in a combination of therapeutic agents.They can be administered alone, but are generally administered with a pharmaceutical carrier selected on the basis of the chosen route of administration and standard pharmaceutical practice. The dosage administered will, of course, vary depending upon known factors such as the pharmacodynamic characteristics of the particular agent, and its mode and route of administration age, health, and weight of the recipient nature and extent of symptoms, kind of concurrent treatment, frequency of treatment, and the effect desired. Usually a daily dosage of active ingredient can be about 0.1 to 100 milligrams per kilogram of body weight. Ordinarily 0.2 to 50, and preferably 0.5 to 25 milligrams per kilogram per day given in divided doses 2 to 4 times a day or in sustained release form is effective to obtain desired results. Dosage forms compositions suitable for internal administration contain from about 1.0 milligrams to about 500 milligrams of active ingredient per unit. In these pharmaceutical compositions the active ingredient will ordinarily be present in an amount of about 0.5 95 by weight based on the total weight of the composition. The active ingredient can be administered orally in solid dosage forms, such as capsules, tablets, and powders, or in liquid dosage forms, such as elixirs, syrups, and suspensions. It can also be administered parenterally, in sterile liquid dosage forms. Gelatin capsules contain the active ingredient and powdered carriers, such as lactose, sucrose, mannitol, starch, cellulose derivatives, magnesium stearate, stearic acid, and the like. Similar diluents can be used to make compressed tablets. Both tablets and capsules can be manufactured as sustained release products to provide for continuous release of medication over a period of hours. Compressed tablets can be sugar coated or film coated to mask any unpleasant taste and protect the tablet from the atmosphere, or enteric coated for selective disintegration in the gastrointestinal tract. Liquid dosage forms for oral administration can contain coloring and flavori ng to increase patient acceptance. In general, water, a suitable oil, saline, aqueous dextrose glucose , and related sugar solutions and glycols such as propylene glycol or polyethylene glycols are suitable carriers for parenteral solutions. Solutions for parenteral administration contain preferably a water soluble salt of the active ingredient, suitable stabilizing agents, and if necessary, buffer substances. Antioxidizing agents such as sodium bisulfite, sodium sulfite, or ascorbic acid either alone or combined are suitable stabilizing agents. Also used are citric acid and its salts and sodium EDTA. In addition parenteral solutions can contain preservatives, such as benzalkonium chloride, methyl or propyl paraben, and chlorobutanol. Suitable pharmaceutical carriers are described in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences, E. W. Martin, a standard reference text in this field. Useful pharmaceutical dosage forms for administration of the compounds of this invention can be illustrated as follows Capsules A large number of unit capsules are prepared by filling standard two piece hard gelatin capsules each with 100 milligrams of powdered active ingredient, 125 milligrams of lactose, 24 milligrams of talc, and 6 milligrams magnesium stearate. Capsules A mixture of active ingredient in soybean oil is prepared and injectd by means of a positive displacement pump into gelatin to form soft gelatin capsules containing 100 milligrams of the active ingredient.The capsules are washed in petroleum ether and dried. Tablets A large number of tablets are prepared by conventional procedures so that the dosage unit is 100 milligrams of active ingredient, 0.2 milligrams of colloidal silicon dioxide, 4 milligrams of magnesium stearate, 275 milligrams of microcrystalline cellulose, 11 milligrams of cornstarch and 98.8 milligrams of lactose. Appropriate coatings may be applied to increase palatability or delay absorption. Injectable A parenteral composition suitable for administration by injection is prepared by stirring 1.5 by weight of active ingredient in 10 by volume propylene glycol and water. The solution is made isotonic with sodium chloride and sterilized by commonly used techniques. Suspension An aqueous suspension is prepared for oral administration so that each 5 milliliters contain 100 milligrams of finely divided active ingredient, 200 milligrams of sodium carboxymethyl cellulose, 5 milligrams of sodium benzoate, 1.0 grams of sorbitol solution, U.S.P., and 0.025 milliliters of vanillin. Pharmaceutical Utility A procedure for detecting and comparing the antiinflammatory activity of compounds in this series and standard drugs for which there is a good correlation with human efficacy is the adjuvant induced arthritis test in rats. The test procedure employed for determining antiinflammatory activity is described below.Established Adjuvant Induced Arthritis in Rats Charles River Lewis male rats 130 150 grams are injected subcutaneously in plantar area of the right hind paw with 0.1 ml of adjuvant Difco heatkilled, lyophilized Mycobacterium butyricum suspended in mineral oil 5 mg ml . 20 Non arthritic controls are injected with mineral oil. The animals are held for 2 weeks to allow development of arthritis. Paw volumes uninjected, left hind paw are measured and the adjuvant injected rats are culled and distributed to treatment groups of 10 of equal disease severity.Non arthritic controls are distributed to 2 groups of 10. The rats are given oral doses of compound orPVA Acacia Polyvinyl Alcohol 1 , Gum Acacia, U.S.P.5 , Methylparaben 0.5 10 ml kg by gavage on that day and on the 6 following days. One day after the last dose the paw volumes uninjected, left hind paw are measured using a Ugo Basile Volume DifferentialMeter Model 7101. Arthritic Control Treatment GroupMean Paw Volume ml Mean Paw Volume ml Arthritic Control Non Arthritic ControlMean Paw Volume ml Mean Paw Volume ml Decrease from Control Mean Paw Volume. Dose response regression lines of the decrease are plotted on semi log paper by visual fit and theED50 decrease from control paw volume is determined by inspection. Results Table III Daily Compound Oral Dose Percent Decrease From Example No. mg kg Control Paw Volume 1 27 471 4 9 373 13 24 272 18 81 411 1 p 0.001 compared to control by Students t test.2 p 0.05 compared to control by Students t test.3 p 0.1 compared to control by Students t test. Table IV Compound ED 4 Example No. ED50 mg kg 2 1.3 3 9 5 17 6 3.8 7 10.5 28 6.2 Indomethacin 0.25 Phenylbutazone 10 Aspirin 270 4 ED50 effective dose mg kg for 50 decrease from control paw volume.