# Novel catalyst system and process for producing ethanol using said novel catalyst system.

## Abstract
A novel catalyst system comprises 1 a cobalt carbonyl, a hydrido cobalt carbonyl or a cobalt containing material convertible to a cobalt carbonyl or a hydrido cobalt carbonyl, 2 a tertiary organo Group VA compound of the Periodic Table, 3 an iodine compound and 4 a ruthenium compound. A process for selectively producing ethanol comprises introducing into a reaction zone 1 methanol, 2 hydrogen, 3 carbon monoxide and the said novel catalyst and then subjecting the contents of said reaction zone to an elevated temperature and an elevated pressure for a time sufficient to convert methanol to ethanol.

## Claims
Claims 1. A novel catalyst system comprising 1 a cobalt entity selected from a cobalt carbonyl, a hydrido cobalt carbonyl and a cobalt containing material convertible to a cobalt carbonyl or a hydrido cobalt carbonyl, 2 a tertiary organoGroup VA compound of the Periodic Table of the formula EMI15.1 wherein E is selected from trivalent phosphorus, trivalent arsenic and trivalent antimony and R1, R2, and R3 are alike or different and are selected from saturated or unsaturated, straight or branched chain alkyl radicals having from one to 24 carbon atoms aryl radicals having from six to 20 carbon atoms alkenyl radicals having from two to 30 carbon atoms cycloalkyl radicals having from three to 40 carbon atoms aralkyl and alkaryl radicals having from six to 40 carbon atoms and n is zero or 1, with the provision that when n is 1, E must be phosphorus, 3 an iodine compound and 4 a ruthenium compound. 2. A catalyst system as claimed in claim 1, wherein R1,R2 and R3 are alike or different and are selected from alkyl radicals having from one to 10 carbon atoms aryl radicals having from six to lO carbon atoms alkenyl radicals having from two to 20 carbon atoms cycloalkyl radicals having from three to 30 carbon atoms and aralkyl and alkaryl radicals having from six to 30 carbon atoms. 3. A catalyst system as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the tertiary organo Group VA compound is selected from tri methyl phosphite tri ethyl phosphine tri n butyl phosphine tri isopropyl phosphine tri cyclo hexyl phosphite tri cyclo hexyl phosphine tri cyclo heptyl phosphine di phenyl methyl phosphine tri phenyl phosphine tri naphthyl phosphine tri styryl phosphine vinyl diphenyl phosphine tri benzyl phosphite tri benzyl phosphine tri para tolyl phosphite tri para tolyl phosphine tri ethyl arsine tri .n butyl arsine tri isopropyl arsine tri cyclo hexyl arsine tri cyclo heptyl arsine di phenyl methyl arsine tri phenyl arsine tri naphthyl arsine tri styryl arsine vinyl diphenyl arsine tri benzyl arsine tri para tolyl arsine tri ethyl antimony tri n butyl antimony tri isopropyl antimony tri cyclo hexyl antimony tri cyclo heptyl antimony di phenyl methyl antimony tri phenyl antimony tri naphthyl antimony tri styryl antimony vinyl diphenyl antimony tri benzyl antimony, and tri para tolyl antimony, ad, mixtures thereof. 4. A catalyst system as claimed in claim 3 wherein the tertiary organo Group VA compound is tri phenyl phosphine. 5. A catalyst system as claimed in claim 3 wherein the tertiary organo Group VA compound is tri p tolyl phosphite. 6. A catalyst system as claimed in claim 3 wherein the tertiary organo Group VA compound is triphenyl arsine. 7 A catalyst system as claimed in claim 3 wherein the tertiary organo Group VA compound is tri n butyl phosphine. 8. A catalyst system as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the cobalt entity is cobalt II acetate. 9. A catalyst system as claimed in any of claims 1 to 8 wherein the cobalt entity is cobalt oxide. 10. A catalyst system as claimed in any of claims 1 to 8 wherein the cobalt entity is cobalt II sulfate heptahydrate. 11. A catalyst system as claimed in any of claims 1 to 8 wherein the cobalt entity is cobalt 11 tetrafluoroborate hexahydrate. 12. A catalyst system as claimed in any of claims 1 to 8 wherein the cobalt entity is cobalt carbonyl. 13. A. catalyst as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the iodine compound is selected from iodine, lithium iodide, sodium iodide, potassium iodide, rubidium iodide, cesium iodide, magnesium iodide, calcium iodide, strontium iodide, barium iodide, stannous iodide, lead II iodide, bismuth III iodide, hydrogen iodide, methyl iodide, ethyl iodide and mixtures thereof. 14. A catalyst system as claimed in claim 13 wherein the iodine compound is iodine. 15. A catalyst system as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the ruthenium compound is selected from ruthenium acetylacetonate, ruthenium trichloride, ruthenium tribromide, ruthenium triiodide, ruthenium dioxide, ruthenium acetate, ruthenium propionate, ruthenium octonate, ruthenium dioxide, ruthenium tetraoxide, ruthenium pentacarbonyl and triruthenium dodecacarbonyl, and mixtures thereof. 16. A catalyst system as claimed in claim 15 wherein the ruthenium compound is ruthenium III acetylacetonate. 17. A catalyst system as claimed in claim 15 wherein the ruthenium compound is tri ruthenium dodecacarbonyl. 18. A catalyst system as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the cobalt, iodine and ruthenium entities are present in a molar. ratio of from 100 1 1 to 1 10 2. 19. A catalyst system as claimed in claim 19 wherein the cobalt, iodine and ruthenium entities are present in a molar ratio of from 20 1 1 to 1 5 1. 20. A catalyst system as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the cobalt entity and the Group VA compound are present in a molar ratio of from 20 1 to 1 10. 21. A catalyst system as claimed in claim 20 wherein the cobalt entity and the Group VA compound are present in a molar ratio of from 10 1 to 1 5. 22. A catalyst system as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the weight per cent of the combined cobalt, tertiary organo Group VA compound, iodine and ruthenium is from 0.005 to 25 per cent. 23. A catalyst system as claimed in claim 22 wherein the weight per cent of the combined cobalt, tertiary organoGroup VA compound, iodine and ruthenium is from 0.01 to 10 per cent. 24. A process for selectively producing ethanol which comprises introducing into a reaction zone 1 methanol, 2 hydrogen, 3 carbon monoxide and 4 a catalyst system claimed in any. of the preceding claims.wherein the molar ratio of hydrogen to carbon monoxide is in excess of 1 1, and then subjecting the contents of said reaction zone to an elevated temperature and elevated pressure tor a time sufficient to convert methanol to ethanol. 25. A process as claimed in claim 24 wherein the reaction temperature is from 1500C to 2500C. 26. A process as claimed in claim 25 wherein the reaction temperature is from 1750C to 2250C. 27. A process as claimed in claim 24 or 25 or 26 wherein the reaction pressure is from 1000 pounds per square inch gauge to 10,000 pounds per square inch gauge 28. A process as claimed in claim 27 wherein the reaction pressure is from 1000 pounds per square inch gauge to 6000 pounds per square inch gauge. 29. A process as claimed in any of claims 24 to 28 wherein the reaction time is from 0.5 hours to 10 hours. 30. A process as claimed in claim 29 wherein the reaction time is from one hour to five hours. 31. A process as claimed in any of claims 24 to 30 wherein the molar ratio of hydrogen to carbon monoxide is in excess of 1.3 1. 32. A process as claimed in claim 31 wherein the molar ratio of hydrogen to carbon monoxide is in excess of 1.5 1. 33. A process as claimed in claim 31 or claim 32 wherein the molar ratio of hydrogen to carbon monoxide is from 1.3 1 to 4 1. 34 A process as claimed in claim 33 wherein the molar ratio of hydrogen to carbon monoxide is from 1.5 1 to 2 1.

## Description
NOVEL CATALYST SYSTEM AND PROCESS FOR PRODUCING ETHANOL USING SAID NOVEL CATALYST SYSTEM BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 1. Field of the Invention This invention is directed to a novel catalyst system comrpising 1 a cobalt carbonyl, a hydrido cobalt carbonyl or a cobalt containing material convertible to a cobalt carbonyl or a hydrido cobalt carbonyl, 2 a tertiary organo Group VA compound of the Periodic Table, 3 an iodine compound and 4 a ruthenium compound and to a process for selectively producing ethanol which comprises introducing into a reaction zone 1 methanol, 2 hydrogen, 3 carbon monoxide, 4 a cobalt carbonyl, a hydrido cobalt carbonyl or a cobalt containing material convertible to a cobalt carbonyl or a hydrido, cobalt carbonyl, 5 a tertiary organo Group VA compound of the Periodic Table, 6 an iodine compound and 7 a ruthenium compound and then subjecting the contents of said reaction zone to an elevated temperature and an elevated pressure for a time sufficient to convert methanol to ethanol. 2. Description of the Prior Art Ethanol is a compound which has been used by man since time immemorial. Historically, ethanol has been produced for various purposes by the fermentation of common grains. However, within recent years synthetic processes have been developed to synthesize this alcohol for industrial use. Such synthetic processes permit the use of more economical starting materials than those used in the fermentation processes, and additionally, permit production and reproduction of a more standardized product and more easily predictable yields of end product.Methanol can easily and economically be produced in great quantities from hydrogen and carbon monoxide or from almost anything containing carbon and hydrogen for example, from methane to manure and from coal to crude oil residues. One such process for producing ethanol synthetically involves reacting methanol with carbon monoxide and hydrogen at elevated temperatures and pressures in the presence of a catalyst system. The conversion of an alcohol, for example, methanol, to the primary alcohol containing one carbon atom more than the original alcohol, namely ethanol, is normally a tedious and time consuming procedure involving a series of steps. Additionally, catalysts which possess acceptable activity generally tend to give a wide spectrum of products, in addition to ethanol, for example, hydrocarbons and oxygenated hydrocarbons having a broad distribution of carbon atoms. This not only complicates the separation and recovery of desired products, but results in reduced yield of ethanol and erosion of reactants in the production of undesirable by products. The reaction of methanol with hydrogen and carbon monoxide to. produce ethanol is appreciated and disclosed by the prior art. However, in general, most known processes produce an undesirable large mixture of alcohols, aldehydes, ketones and carboxylic acids in addition to the desired alcohol. For example, U.S. Patent No. 3,285,948, entitledHALIDES OF RUTHENIUM AND OSMIUM IN CONJUNCTION WITH COBALT ANDIODINE IN THE PRODUCTION OF ETHANOL FROM METHANOL, issued toButter on November 15, 1966, teaches a method for producing alcohols in which any source of cobalt soluble in the reaction medium which will yield a cobalt carbonyl or hydrogen cobalt carbonyl under the reaction conditions can be used. In addition, an iodine promoter is employed, for example, 121 or alkali metal iodides. A secondary promoter is also employed, i.e., ruthenium halide or osmium halide. High selectivity is described as better when the secondary promoter is used in combination with the primary promoter and other reactants. U.S. Patent No. 4,013,700, entitled CATALYTIC PROCESSFOR POLYHYDRIC ALCOHOLS AND DERIVATIVES, issued to Cawse onMarch 22 1977, discloses a process for the preparation of polyhydrid alcohols, their ether and ester derivatives, and oligomers of such alcohols. In particular, these alcohols and their derivatives are produced by reacting the oxides of carbon and hydrogen in the presence of a quaternary phosphonium cation and a rhodium carbonyl complex at elevated temperature and pressure. Another process is set forth in U.S. Patent No.3,248,432, entitled PROCESS FOR THE PRODUCTION OF ETHYL ALCOHOL, issued to Riley et al on April 26, 1966, which relates to a process for the production of ethyl alcohol by the interaction of methanol, carbon monoxide and hydrogen at elevated temperature and pressure in the presence of a cobalt catalyst, an iodine promoter and a phosphorus compound soluble in methanol. Examples of suitable cobalt sources are described as any water soluble source of cobalt, for example, the cobalt carbonyls, the lower salts of alkanoate cobalt, such as cobalt acetate, cobalt formate, cobalt propionate, and the lire, U.S.Patent No. 2,623,906, entitled PÉPAw ION aw ORGANIC HYDROXY CONTAINING COMPOUNDS BY REACTING ALCOHOLS WITHCARBON MONOXIDE AND HYDROGEN, issued to Gresham on June 16, 1948, relates to a procedure for synthesizing mono and poly functional oxygen containing organic compounds by the reaction of alcohols, carbon monoxide and hydrogen. Catalysts described as suitable for use include various cobalt compounds, for example, cobalt carbonyl, cobalt carbonyl hydride. metallic cobalt, and organic and inorganic cobalt salts. The process, however, suffers from the disadvantage of poor product distribution. Dutch Patent No. 760.6138, entitled PROCESS FOR THEFORMATION OF ETHANOL FROM METHANOL AND SYNTHESIS GAS, issued to Shell International Research on June 8, 1976, relates to a process for producing alcohols which utilizes any soluble cobalt source which can generate a cobalt carbonyl or hydro carbonyl by reaction with the synthesis gas. For example, sources of cobalt suitable for use are cobalt iodide or cobalt metal from which ions can be generated in situ. Organic salts of cobalt such as cobalt acetate, formate, or propionate are described as especially good sources, an iodide or bromide promoter is also utilized. In addition, the use of a tertiary phosphine is described as affording improved selectivity to the formation of alcohols.. In our U.S. Patent No. 4,133,966 dated January 9, 1979, a process is disclosed for the selective formation of ethanol which comprises contacting methanol, hydrogen and carbon monoxide with a catalyst system comprising cobalt acetylacetonate, a tertiary organo Group VA compound of the Periodic Table, a first promoter comprising an iodine compound and a second promoter comprising a ruthenium compound. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to 1 a cobalt carbonyl, a hydrido cobalt carbonyl or a cobalt containing material convertible to a cobalt carbonyl or a hydrido cobalt carbonyl, 2 a tertiary organo Group VA compound of the Periodic Table, 3 an iodine compound and 4 a ruthenium compound and to a process for selectively producing ethanol which comprises introducing into a reaction zone 1 methanol, 2 hydrogen, 3 carbon monoxide, 4 a cobalt carbonyl, a hydrido cobalt carbonyl or a cobalt containing material convertible to a cobalt carbonyl or a hydrido cobalt carbonyl, 5 a tertiary organo Group VA compound of the Periodic Table, 6 an iodine compound and 7 a ruthenium compound and then subjecting the contents of said reaction zone to an elevated temperature and an elevated pressure for a time sufficient to convert methanol to ethanol. From the above it can be seen that for the purposes of the process defined and claimed herein seven separate and distinct entities are introduced into a reaction zone prior to subjecting them to an elevated temperature and elevated pres sure sufficient to obtain ethanol. Of these the cobalt, the tertiary organo Group VA compound of the Periodic Table, iodine and ruthenium entitles require further elucidation. The cobalt entity is defined as being a cobalt carbonyl, a hydrido cobalt carbonyl or a cobalt containing material convertible to a cobalt carbonyl or a hydrido cobalt carbonyl. By cobalt carbonyl we intend to define a compound containing only cobalt and carbon monoxide, such as Co2 CO 8 or CO4 CO 12. By hydrido cobalt carbonyl11 we intend to define a compound containing only cobalt, carbon monoxide and hydrogen, such as HCo CO 4.By cobalt containing material convertible to a cobalt carbonyl or a hydrido cobalt carbonyl11 we intend to define any material which when mixed with hexane and subjected to 4000 pounds per square inch gauge 27.6 MPa in an atmosphere containing hydrogen and carbon monoxide in a molar ratio of 1 1 at 1500 to 2000C. for a period of three hours will result in the formation of a cobalt carbonyl, a hydrido cobalt carbonyl or mixtures thereof.Specific examples of a cobalt containing material so convertible to a cobalt carbonyl or a hydrido cobalt carbonyl include cobalt II sulfate, cobalt oxide Co304 , cobalt II tetrafluoroborate, cobalt II acetate, cobalt II oxalate, cobalt II carbonate, cobalt II propionate, cobalt II octoate, cobalt II butyrate, cobalt II benzoate, cobalt II valerate, cobalt II formate, cobalt II cyclohexanebutyrate, cobalt II 2 ethylhexoate, cobalt II gluconate, cobalt II lactate, cobalt II naphthenate, cobalt II oleate and cobalt II citrate. The tertiary organo Group VA compound of the PeriodicTable can be defined by the following formula EMI5.1 wherein E is a member selected from the group consisting of trivalent phosphorus, trivalent arsenic and trivalent antimony andR1, R2 and R3 are either alike or different members selected from the group consisting of saturated or unsaturated, straight or branched chain alkyl radicals having from one to 24 carbon atoms, preferably from one to 10 carbon atoms aryl radicals having from six to 20 carbon atoms, preferably from six to 10 carbon atoms alkenyl radicals having from two to 30 carbon atoms, preferably from two to 20 carbon atoms cycloalkyl radicals having from three to 40 carbon atoms, preferably from three to 30 carbon atoms aralkyl and alkaryl radicals having from six to 40 carbon atoms, preferably from six to 30 carbon atoms and n is an integer of 0 or 1 with the provision that when n is 1, E must be phosphorus. Tertiary organo Group VA compounds of the PeriodicTable which are suitable for use herein include tri methyl phosphite tri ethyl phosphine tri n butyl phosphine tri isopropyl phosphine tri cyclo hexyl phosphite tri cyclo hexyl phosphine tri cyclo heptyl phosphine di phenyl methyl phosphine tri phenyl phosphine tri naphthyl phosphine tri styryl phosphine vinyl diphenyl phosphine tri benzyl phosphite tri benzyl phosphine tri para tolyl phosphite tri para tolyl phosphine tri ethyl arsine tri n butyl arsine tri isopropyl arsine tri cyclo hexyl arsine tri cyclo heptyl arsine di phenyl methyl arsine tri phenyl arsine tri naphthyl arsine tri styryl arsine vinyl diphenyl arsine tri benzyl arsine tri para tolyl arsine tri ethyl antimony tri n butyl antimony tri isopropyl antimony tri cyclo hexyl antimony tri cyclo heptyl antimony d i phenyl methyl antimony tr i phenyl antimony, tri naphthyl antimony tri styryl antimony vinyl diphenyl antimony tri benzyl antimony, and tri para tolyl antimony, or mixtures thereof. Any source of iodine which is capable of disassociating, that is, ionizing to form free iodide ions in the reaction medium, can be used as a primary promoter in the present invention. Illustrative examples of iodine compounds especially suitable for use herein include iodine, lithium iodide, sodium iodide, potassium iodide, rubidium iodide, cesium iodide, magnesium iodide, calcium iodide, strontium iodide, barium iodide, stannous iodide, lead II iodide, bismuth III iodide, hydrogen iodide, methyl iodide, ethyl iodide, etc. Any ruthenium compound can be used herein and can include, for example, ruthenium acetylacetonate, ruthenium trichloride, ruthenium tribromide, ruthenium dioxide, ruthenium triiodide, ruthenium acetate, ruthenium propionate, ruthenium octonate, ruthenium dioxide, ruthenium tetraoxide, ruthenium pentacarbonyl and tri ruthenium dodecacarbonyl. The relative amounts of hydrogen and carbon monoxide employed is critical in order to obtain increased ethanol yields.Thus, the molar ratio range of hydrogen to carbon monoxide must be in excess of about 1 1, preferably in excess of about 1.3 1, but most preferably in excess of about 1.5 1, but generally need not be in excess of about 4 1, preferably need not be in excess of about 2 1. Compounds or reaction mixtures which give rise to formation of carbon monoxide and hydrogen under the reaction conditions defined herein can be used instead of mixtures comprising hydrogen and carbon monoxide and hydrogen under the reaction conditions defined herein can be used instead of mixtures comprising hydrogen and carbon monoxide, which are used in the preferred embodiments of this invention. The cobalt, iodine and ruthenium entities are introduced into the reaction zone in molar ratios, based on the elements cobalt, iodine and ruthenium, respectively, ranging from about 100 1 1 to about 1 10 2, preferably from about 20 1 1 to about 1 5 1. The cobalt entity and the Group VA compound, based on their elemental forms, can be present in a molar ratio of about 20 1 to about 1 10, preferably about 10 1 to about 1 5.Based on the methanol introduced into the system, the weight per cent of combined cobalt, tertiary organo Group VA compound, iodine and ruthenium entities, in their elemental form, can range from about 0.005 to about 25 per cent, preferably from about 0.01 to about 10 per cent. The process defined herein can be carried out either in a batch operation or by passing the reactants continuously through a reaction zone. In each case the reactor is provided with agitation means and the pressure is maintained therein by the addition of hydrogen and carbon monoxide as required. In order to facilitate introduction of the cobalt, tertiaryGroup VA compound, iodine and ruthenium entities into the reaction zone and or to facilitate recovery of the components of the reaction herein, they can first be dissolved in an inert solvent, such as ethylene glycol, diethylene glycol monomethyl ether, acetone, sulfolanes, such as tetramethylene sulfone, lactones such as Y butyrlactone and caprolactone, etc. In the reaction zone the contents thereof are then maintained at an elevated temperature and an elevated pressure for a time sufficient to convert methanol to ethanol. Pressures which are suitable for use herein generally are above about 1000 pounds per square inch gauge 6.83 MPa , but should not be in excess of about 10,000 pounds per square inch gauge 68.30 MPa . An especially desirable pressure range is from about 1000 pounds per square inch gauge 6.83 MPa to about 6000 pounds per square inch gauge 40.98 MPa , preferably from about 2000 pounds per square inch gauge 13.66 MPa to about 5000 pounds per square inch gauge 34.15 MPa . Temperatures which are suitable for use herein are those temperatures which initiate a reaction between the reactants herein to produce ethanol1 generally from about 1500C. to about 2500C., preferably from about 1750C, to about 2250C. The reaction is conducted for a time period sufficient to convert methanol to ethanol, normally from about 0.5 hour to about 10 hours, especially from about one to about five hours. Recovery of the desired ethanol from the reaction product can be effected in any convenient or conventional manner, for example, by distillation. At ambient pressure and about 210C., the components will distill off in the following sequence for the desired recovery dimethyl ether, diethyl ether, methyl acetate, methanol and ethanol. It is to be noted that the catalyst system herein is highly selective to the formation of ethanol and minimizes the formation of undesirable by products such as acetaldehyde, ethers, esters and other alcohol derivatives. However, even though the by products be termed undesirable , they are still valuable chemicals and can be recovered and used in chemical operations. DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS The following Examples and Table serve to further illustrate and instruct one skilled in the art the best mode of how to practice this invention and to demonstrate the critical features thereof. The reactions herein were performed in a stainless steel pressure resistant autoclave equipped with agitation means, that is, a type 316 stainless steel, 300 cc. autoclave marketed by Autoclave Engineers. The methanol, hydrogen, carbon monoxide, the tertiary organo Group VA compound and the cobalt, iodine and ruthenium entities were introduced into the autoclave. The autoclave was connected to another larger reservoir containing synthesis gas hydrogen and carbon monoxide which fed said synthesis gas into the steel autoclave at a set pressure on demand. Thus the reactor pressure was maintained throughout the course of the reaction. The reaction pressure and temperature were adjusted to operating conditions and the mixture reacted for a period of time sufficient to produce ethanol. In Example No. I there was introduced into the 300 cc.stainless steel autoclave three millimoles of cobalt II acetate, 1.5 millimoles of iodine, 0.5 millimole of tri paratolyl phosphite, 0.75 millimole of ruthenium II acetylacetonate and 100 milliliters of methanol. In Examples Nos. II toV there was introduced into the autoclave six millimoles of the cobalt entity, that is, cobalt oxide Co304 , cobalt II acetate, cobalt II sulfate heptahydrate tCoSo4.7H2O and cobalt II tetrafluoroborate hexahydrate Co BF4 2 6H2O , respectively 1.5 millimoles of iodine six millimoles of a tertiary organo GroupVA compound, that is, triphenyl phosphine, triphenyl arsine, trin butyl phosphine and triphenyl phosphine, respectively one millimole of the ruthenium entity, that is, tri ruthenium dodecacarbonyl, ruthenium III acetylacetonate, tri ruthenium dodecacarbonyl and ruthenium III acetylacetonate, respectively, and 100 milliliters of methanol. The reactor was next purged twice with nitrogen gas and then pressurized with synthesis gas H CO molar 1 to a pressure of about 1000 pounds per square inch 6.83 MPa lower than the desired working pressure. The system was then heated to a temperature of about 1750C. inExample .1 and 2000C., in each of Examples II to V and the pressure was adjusted to a working pressure of about 4000 pounds per square inch gauge 27.6 MPa . The reaction was allowed to proceed for approximately three hours, after which the reactor was cooled by an internal cooling coil to about 750C.The reactor was vented through a dry gas test meter and a gas sample was taken for a mass spectral analysis, and the liquid product was analyzed using a Model 900 Perkin Elmer gas chromatograph utilizing a 16 ft. 4.88 meters x 1.8 in. 0.32 centimeter stainless steel column wherein 8 ft. 2.44 meters of the column was packed with 80 100 mesh Porpoak Q and the other 8 ft. 2.44 meters was packed with 80 100 mesh Poropak R. Poropak Q andPoropak R are polyvinyl benzene type resins which are marketed commercially by Waters Associates, a corporation located inMilford, Massachusetts. The gas chromatograph was programmed to increase from 400C. to 1900C. at a rate of 32 C. min. and with a helium flow rate of 30 cc. min. The data obtained are set forth below in Table I. In each of Examples Nos. VI, VIII, X and XII there was introduced into the 300 cc. stainless steel autoclave 2.25 millimoles of Co2 CO 8 0.77 gram , 4.5 millimoles of iodine, 1.14 gram , 0.45 millimole of ruthenium III acetylacetonate 0.18 gram and 100 milliliters of methanol. In each ofExamples Nos. VII, IX, XI and XIII there was introduced into the autoclave 2.25 millimoles of Co CO8 0.77 gram , 4.5 millimoles of iodine 1.14 gram , 4.5 millimoles of triphenyl phosphine 1.18 grams , 0.45 millimole of ruthenium III acetylacetonate 0.18 gram and 100 milliliters of methanol.The reactor was next purged twice with nitrogen gas and then pressurized with the desired blend of hydrogen and carbon monoxide to a pressure of about 1000 pounds per square inch 6.83 MPa lower than the desired working pressure. The system was then heated to a temperature of about 2150C. and the pressure was adjusted to a working pressure of about 4000 pounds per square inch gauge 27.6 MPa . The reaction was allowed to proceed for approximately three hours, after which the reactor was cooled by an internal cooling coil to about 750C. The reactor was vented through a dry test gas meter and a gas sample was taken for a mass spectral analysis, and the liquid product was analyzed using a Model 900 Perkin Elmer gas chromatograph utilizing a 16 ft. 4.88 meters x 1.8 in. 0.32 centimeter stainless steel column wherein 8 ft. 2.44 meters of the column was packed with 80 100 mesh Poropak Q and the other 8 ft. 2.44 meters was packed with 80 100 mesh Poropak R. Poropak Q and Poropak R are polyvinyl benzene type resins which are marketed commercially by Waters Associates, a corporation located in Milford,Massachusetts. The gas chromatograph was programmed to increase from 400C. to 1900C. at a rate of 320C. min. and with a helium flow rate of 30 cc. min. The data obtained are also set forth below in Table I. In Example XIV there was introduced into the 300 cc.stainless steel autoclave 2.5 millimols of Co2 CO 8, five millimoles of triphenyl phosphine and five millimoles.of iodine. The autoclave was purged twice with nitrogen gas and then pressurized with synthesis gas H2 CO molar 1 to a pressure of 1000 pounds per square inch lower than the desired working pressure. The system was then heated to a temperature of about 2000C.and the pressure was adjusted to a working pressure of 4000 pounds per square inch.. The reaction was allowed to proceed for approximately three hours, after which the reactor was cooled by an internal cooling coil to about 750C. The reactor was vented through a dry gas meter and a gas sample was taken for a mass spectral analysis, and the liquid product was analyzed using aModel 900 Perkin Elmer gas chromatograph utilizing a 16 ft. 4.88 meters x 1.8 in. 0.32 centimeter stainless steel column wherein 8 ft 2.44 meters of the column was packed with 80 100 mesh Poropak Q and the other 8 ft. 2..44 meters was packed with 80 100 mesh Poropak R. Poropak Q and Poropak Rare polyvinyl benzene type resins which are marketed commercially by WatersAssociates, a corporation located in Milford, Massachusetts.The gas chromatograph was programmed to increase from 400C. to 1900C. at a rate of 320C. min. and with a helium flow rate of 30 cc. min. The data obtained are also set forth below inTable I. TABLE I Gram Mol Per Per Atom Ratio Cent CentExam of P of MeOH a Mole Per Cent Selectivity Yield ple to H2 to Conver toNo. Co CO sion Me2O b AcH c Et2O d EtOH e MeOAc f EtOAc g HOAc h Other i EthanolI 1 6 1 46.3 6.9 0 13.8 49.5 23.8 j j 6.0 22.9II 1 1 1 45.1 3.3 0 12.8 70.3 11.8 j j i.8 3.7III 1 1 1 35.3 5.2 0 2.0 66.4 22.1 j j 4.3 23.4IV 1 1 1 28.1 6.5 0 0.8 76.8 13.0 j j 2.9 21.6V 1 1 1 61.5 21.6 8.8 7.2 43.0 16.1 j j 3.3 26.4VI 0 0.33 83.0 28.7 6.4 0 28.6 26.2 7.9 1.0 1.2 23.7VII 1 1 0.33 84.0 10.5 10.0 0 4.9 58.4 5.4 1.1 9.7 4.1VIII 0 1 93.0 11.3 4.0 6.0 50.1 7.45 15.9 1.87 3.3 46.6IX 1 1 1 94.0 2.9 12.7 3.8 39.9 7.4 17.3 1.2 14.8 37.5X 0 2 93.0 39.4 0.1 2.6 43.6 4.7 1.9 0 7.7 40.5XI 1 1 2 77.0 14.0 1.0 4.2 72.5 4.5 1.2 0.6 2.0 55.8XII 0 3 83.0 94.8 0.3 0 2.5 0.9 0 0 1.5 2.1XIII 1 1 3 91.0 20.8 0.8 5.7 61.4 5.4 2.3 0.9 2.7 55.9XIV 1 1 1 73.0 13.4 20.8 2.0 24.0 19.8 9.5 j 10.5 17.5 a Methanol c Acetaldehyde e Ethanol g Ethyl Acetate i Mixtures of b Dimethyl Ether d Diethyl ether f Methyl Acetate h Acetic acid methäne, ethane, meth formate, propanol, n propanol, n butanol and n butanal. j Not taken The data in Table I emphasizes the uniqueness of the presence of the novel catalyst herein and the critical necessity of maintaining molar ratios of hydrogen to carbon monoxide in excess of about 1 1 in order to obtain exceptionally high ethanol yields. Thus, from Examples Nos. I toV, inclusive, and Example No. IX it can be seen that when the novel catalyst herein is used in a homologation process wherein equal molar ratios of hydrogen and carbon monoxide are used the per cent yield of ethanol obtained ranges from 21.6 to 37.5 per cent. In Example No. VII when the process is repeated but the hydrogen to molar ratio is reduced to 0.33 1, the per cent yield to ethanol is greatly reduced to 4.1. However, when the process is again repeated and the molar ratio of hydrogen to carbon monoxide is increased to 2 1 in ExampleNo. XI and to 3 1 in Example No.XIII, the per cent yield to ethanol is unexpectedly greatly increased to 55.8 and 55.9 per cent, respectively. At molar ratios of hydrogen to carbon monoxide of 0.33 1 in Run No. VI and 1 1 in Run No. VIII, wherein the process was otherwise similar to those of Examples Nos.VII and IX, respectively, but the catalyst did not contain phosphorus, the per cent yields to ethanol were higher. It was highly surprising, therefore, that when in Examples Nos.XI and XIII the process was repeated using the novel catalyst herein and with hydrogen to carbon monoxide molar ratios in excess of about 1 1, greatly increased yields to ethanol were obtained compared to Examples Nos. X and XII wherein the process was similar except that the catalyst used did not contain phosphorus. That the presence of phosphorus in a homologation catalyst would have resulted in increased yields of the magnitudes obtained in Examples Nos. XI and XII would not have been predicted is apparent from Example No. XIV wherein phosphorus was present but not ruthenium. Thus, it is clear from the data that the homologation catalyst must contain the cobalt compound, the tertiary organo Group VA compound, the iodine and the ruthenium compound. Obviously, many modifications and variations of the invention, as hereinabove set forth, can be made without deparing from the spirit and scope thereof and, therefore, only such limitations should be imposed as are indicated in the appended claims.