# Process for preparing 2,5 dialkyl 4 hydroxy 3 2H furanones and 4 alkenyl dihydro 3 2H furanones obtained as intermediate products.

## Abstract
Preparation of 2,5 dialkyl 4 hydroxy 3 2H furanones of the formula An aldol condensation of a 2,5 dialkyl dihydro 3 2H furanone with an aldehyde R CHO is carried out in a basic medium, followed by a dehydration of the resulting aldol to the corresponding exocyclic alkene The furanones thus obtained may be used as flavouring substances.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for preparing 2,5 dialkyl 4 hydroxy 3 2H furanones, characterized by reacting a 2,5 dialkyl dihydro 3 2H furanone having the formula EMI15.1 wherein R and R are selected from the lower alkyl groups having from 1 3 carbon atoms, with an aldehydeR CHO, wherein R is an alkyl or isoalkyl group having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms or an aryl group, under aldol condensation conditions at a temperature of from lO0C to 100C and in the presence of an organic or inorganic base dehydrating the aldol thus obtained to the corresponding exocyclic alkene having the formula EMI15.2 wherein R, R and R have the significations indicated above treating the exocyclic alkene thus obtained with ozone in the presence of a participating solvent selected from alcohols and organic acids having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, water and water acetone mixtures, at a temperature of from 700C to 300C to obtain the corresponding hydroperoxyhemiacetal reducing the latter to the corresponding hemiacetal by reaction with a reducing agent or by catalytic hydrogenation and converting the hemiacetal thus obtained to its corresponding 2,5 dialkyl 4 hydroxy 3 2H furanone having the formula EMI16.1 by heating under reflux in an acidic medium and in an inert atmosphere. 2. A process according to claim 1, characterized in that there is used an aldehyde in which the radical R is phenyl or tolyl. 3. A process according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that there is used benzaldehyde as the aldehyde. 4. A process according to claim 1, characterized in that there is used acetaldehyde as the aldehyde. 5. A process according to claim 1, characterized in that there is used 2 methyl propanal as the aldehyde. 6. A process according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the participating solvent is methanol. 7. A process according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the participating solvent is a water acetone mixture. 8. A process according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the base is selected from alkali and alkaline earth metal hydroxides and carbonates. 9. A process according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the base is an alkali metal hydroxide. 10. A process according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the radicals R and Pt of the furanone are methyl. 11. A process according to any one of the preceding claims, charaterized in that the reducing agent isNaH SO 3 12. Chemical intermediate consisting of 2,5 dimethyl4 ethylidene dihydro 3 2H furanone. 13. Chemical intermediate consisting of 2,5 dimethyl 4 isobutylidene dihydro 3 2H furanone. 14. Chemical intermediate consisting of 2,5 dimethyl 4benzylidene dihydro 3 2H furanone.

## Description
Process for preparing 2,5 dialkyl 4 hydroxy 3 2H furanones and 4 alkenyl dihydro 3 2H furanones obtained as intermediate products 1. The present invention relates to the preparation of 2,5 dialkyl 4 hydroxy 3 2H furanones, and especially to the preparation of 2,5 dimethyl 4 hydroxy 3 2H furanone, commercially known under the name Furaneol .Furaneol is an important flavouring substance found in pineapples J.o. Rodin et al, J. Food Science 1965 30, 280 . It has a strong, fruity fragrance and is suitable for use in various food products U.S. Patent No.3,887,589 of the 3.6.1975 on account of its excellent flavouring and organoleptic properties.According to J.E. Hodge and colleagues U.S. Patent No.2,936,308 , Furaneol can be obtained in small quantities from rhamnose and piperidine acetate however, rhamnose is an expensive product and hence this process is uneconomic. Processes for synthesizing Furaneol from other starting products are also known. The majority of these are based on the preliminary formation of straight chain aliphatic derivatives which are then modified to provide appropriate diketo groups, combined with a diol or two halogen atoms, to allow the subsequent cyclyzation into Furaneol or its derivatives U.S. PatentNo. 3,629,292 Swiss Patent No. 474,501 . These processes involve many expensive operating stages and the overall yields are rather low.The present invention is based on the idea according to which, by oxidizing the activated methylene group of 2,5 dimethyl dihydro 3 2H furanone EMI2.1 C.A. 43, 1949, 5424i C.A. 47, 1953, 7478c C.A. 57, 1962, 16526d C.A 87, P 117769v German Patent 2,600,864 the corresponding diketo derivative might be obtained and then through passage to the enol form,Furaneol EMI2.2 However, owing to the fact that Furaneol has characteristics typical of reducing agents, that is, has a considerable tendency to be oxidised B. Wilhalm et al,Chemistry Industry 1965 1629 , the choice of a suitable oxidising agent for a direct reaction of the above type has been very difficult because of the difficulty in stopping the reaction at the desired stage to avoid the formation of secondary products by further oxidation or degradation.According to the invention, this difficulty has been overcome by means of a process characterized by the following steps of reacting a 2,5 dialkyl dihydro 3 2H furanone having the formula EMI3.1 wherein R and R are selected from the lower alkyl groups having from 1 3 carbon atoms, with an aldehydeR CH0, wherein R is an alkyl or isoalkyl group having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms or an aryl group, under aldol condensation conditions at a temperature of from 100C to 1000C and in the presence of an organic or inorganic base dehydrating the aldol obtained to the corresponding exocyclic alkene having the formula EMI3.2 treating the exocyclic alkene II with ozone in the presence of a participating solvent selected from alcohols and organic acids having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, water, and water acetone mixtures, at a temperature of from 700C to 300C preferably from 300C to OOC to obtain the corresponding hydroperoxy hemiacetal reducing the latter to the corresponding hemiacetal by reaction with a reducing agent or by catalytic hydrogenation and converting the hemiacetal thus obtained to its corresponding 2,5 dialkyl 4 hydroxy 3 2H furanone having the formula EMI4.1 by heating under reflux in an acidic medium and in an inert atmosphere.Examples of aryl groups for the aldehyde are phenyl and tclyl. Benzaldehyde is one of the aldehydes preferred for the aldol condensation. Other suitable aldehydes are acetaldehyde and 2 methyl propanal. To achieve a substantially quantitative yield with respect to the starting furanone, from 1 to 2 equivalents of the aldehyde, and preferably 1.5 equivalents for every equivalent of furanone I should be used.The organic base used in the aldol condensation is preferably an alkali or alkaline earth metal hydroxide or carbonate. Thus sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide in aqueous or alcoholic solution, or calcium hydroxide, barium hydroxide, sodium carbonate or potassium carbonate, may be used. Among the organic bases, strong bases such as piperidine are preferred. Extremely good results, under economically advantageous conditions, may be obtained by using a catalytic quantity of sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide in aqueous solution.The reaction temperature is preferably from 0 C to 150C, both to obtain the best results and to avoid poly merisa tion and other secondary reactions. The reaction time is generally dependent on the temperature within the range OOC to 150C indicated above, reaction times of from about 1 2 an hour to about 2 hours may be used.The crude aldol recovered from the reaction mass of the first reaction step may be purified by distillation, but this is not strictly necessary. For the dehydration of the aldol either crude or distilled to the corresponding alkene II , catalytic amounts of mineral acid or acid salt may be used. Sometimes, however, it may be preferable to use an organic acid, such as p toluene sulphonic acid. The dehydrating conditions may be varied according to the type of aldehyde R CHO used in the condensation, and this factor may also be determining in the choice between a relatively weak acid salt such as NaHSO or KHSO and p toluene sulphonic acid. The 4 quantity of dehydrating agent used is generally less than 0.01 equivalent.The reaction is carried out at elevated temperatures, generally from 100 to 2000C and preferably from 1100C to 1600C. The dehydration may be carried out in separate batches or by a continuous process carried out at reduced pressure such that the forming alkene II is continuously removed by distillation.This latter method of operation, with a moderate vacuum, is preferred, especially to avoid the migration of the exocyclic double bond to the inside of the furanone ring, between the 4 and 5 positions, with consequent impossibility to obtain then Furaneol by ozonization. With the conditions mentioned above it is possible to obtain yields of more than 80 , with a selectivity of the order of 90 or more towards the formation of the exocyclic bonding.A particular aspect of the invention resides in the oxidation of the alkene II to Furaneol or its 2,5dialkyl homologues by ozonolysis in the presence of a participating solvent of the formula R OH, wherein R may be hydrogen, a lower alkyl radical with 1 4 carbon atoms such as methyl, ethyl and propyl or an acyl radical such as CH3 CO or CH3 CH2 CO . Thus, methanol, ethanol, acetic acid, water or water acetone mixtures may be used but to achieve best yields and for economic reasons, it is preferable to select methanol. The ozonization may be carried out within a wide range of temperatures, from about 700C to about 250C the 300C to OOC range is preferred both for reasons of yield and to avoid loss by evaporation.In practice, the ozone may be delivered in a current of air or oxygen. A peculiarity of this stage of the process of the invention is that the participating solvent reacts with the ozonide according to the reaction EMI6.1 forming a hydroperoxyacetal IV which is stable, whereby the oxidation does not proceed any further. The compound IV may easily be reduced to the corresponding hemiacetal V and then converted to the final product III by the reaction EMI7.1 Sulphur dioxide or its salts, such as NaHSO3 or Na SO or 23 other sulphites, may be used as reducing agents. Thiosulfates S203 may also be used in the presence of potassium iodide, or powdered metallic zinc. The reduction may also be carried out by catalytic hydrogenation, by using for example, Raney nickel, palladium or platinum as the catalyst.Sodium bisulphite is, however, preferred since it is readily available and of low cost.The reaction temperature may vary from OOC to 1000C but the most suitable range is from lO0C to 5O0C. For the final conversion of the hemiacetal V , various acids may be used, preferably in aqueous solutions such as 0.5 N hydrochloric acid or 10 oxalic acid. Advantageously, the acid is added to the solution obtained by the reduction mentioned above and the resulting mixture is heated under reflux in an inert atmosphere. For example, from 1 to 10 parts by weight of 0.5 N hydrochloric acid may be added for every part by weight of hemiacetal and the mixture may be refluxed at 80 to 1000C in an atmosphere of nitrogen for 2 to 6 hours, typically from 3 to 5 hours, thus achieving an excellent conversion into final product III .The latter may then be recovered by neutralising the solution, concentrating itw salting it and extracting the product with a suitable solvent for example dichloromethane or ether , operating either continuously or in separate batches. The crude Furaneol thus obtained, which is semi crystalline, may be used as it is or may be distilled at reduced pressure to give crystalline Furaneol melting point 78C to 790C .The invention will now be further illustrated by the following examples, which are given purely by way of illustration and do not imply any limitation in the scope of said invention. In the examples, the parts are given by weight unless expressly indicated otherwise.Example 1Part 1 2,5 dimethyl 4 ethylidene dihydro 3 2H furanone. 20 parts of 2,5 dimehyl dihydro 3 2H furanone, and 56 parts of 28 aqueous acetaldehyde are placed in a flask provided with an agitator, a thermometer and an ice water bath. An aqueous 20 solution of potassium hydroxide is added dropwise at 50C until the solution is clearly alkaline pH greater than 12 . The reaction mixture is agitated for a further hour at 0 to lO0C. It is then acidified with a few drops of 10 hydrochloric acid and the clear solution is salified with 5 to 8 grams of sodium chloride. The oil phase is extracted with three 30 ml portions of dichloromethane.After evaporation of the unreacted acetaldehyde and the solvent, about 28 20 grams of aldol residue nod 1.4620 are obtained consisting of a mixture of at least five aldol isomers which can be distilled at 1.5 mm Hg and at 80 920C to 20 give a purified aldoR, with nD 1.4590 .The crude aldol obtained 28 g is mixed with 0.2 grams of p toluenesulphonic acid and placed in a Claisen flask, this latter being provided with a first thermometer immersed in the reaction mass and a second thermometer for measuring the temperature of the vapour. The flask is connected, through a small condenser and a collecting flask, with a water suction pump, regulated so as to produce a vacuum of about 100 to 130 mm Hg. The reaction mixture is heated slowly and the dehydration starts at about 1100 to 13O0C the alkene II starts to distil over at between 1300 and 15O0C temperature of the mass . Within about 15 minutes a total of about 20 24 grams of oil n 1.4560 , together with water, are D collected.About 80 of the oil consists of two alkene isomers while about 20 of it consists of unreacted aldols. A 12 inch, Goodloe rectifying column is used to distil the 2,5 dimethyl 4 ethylidene dihydro 3 2H furanone which distils over at 700 to 9O0C at 20 mm Hg.The product, consisting of a mixture o f two isomeric 20 forms in a 3 1 ratio, has an nD value of 1.4620 to 1.4670 and a content of less than 5 by weight of endocyclic isomer. About 70 of the alkenes are recovered.The aldol residue is recycled. Part 2 Furaneol 10 grams of 2,5 dimethyl 4 ethylidene dihydro 3 2H furanone obtained by the method of Part 1 are reacted with ozone at 150C in 40 ml of methanol, using an oxygen ozone current containing 4 of ozone, fed in by means of a tube ending with a porous septum of sintered glass immersed in the reaction mixture. When, from a sample of the ozonization mixture analysed by means of chromatography in the vapour phase on FFAP 15 in a 2 m column at 1800C it is found that all the alkene II has reacted, the ozonization mixture is mixed with 45 ml of water and reduced portionwise with 4 grams of sodium bisulphite, under agitation at 10 to 150C, until tests with potassium iodide paper are negative.A further 0.5 grams of sodium bisulphite are then added and the reaction mixture is concentrated under a pressure of 30 to 50 mm Hg until the greater part of the methanol has been removed. The residue about 20 ml is then heated under reflux in an atmosphere of nitrogen for 4 hours. After cooling and neutralising to about pH 6, the reaction mixture is saturated with sodium sulphate and extracted continuously with dichloromethane for 2 hours. After evaporation of the solvent, about 7 grams of residue having a strong odour of burnt sugar are obtained from the extract. This residue becomes semicrystalline after being left overnight. 4 to 4.5 grams of white crystalline Furaneol are obtained by means of distillation at 0.5 mm Hg at 80 900C. From the NMR analysis nuclear magnetic resonance it is found that the product has a typical quadruplet at 4.5 G a proton adjacent the methyl next to the furan ring oxygen , a singlet of methyl at 2.36 adjacent to the double bond, and a doublet of methyl at 1.5 Example 2Part 1 ,5 dimethyl 4 isobutylidene dihydro 3 2 furanoneThree parts of 2,5 dimethyl dihydro 3 2H furanone and 4,5 parts of 2 methyl propanal in ten parts of methanol are cooled to lO0C. 0.65 ml of 20 aqueous potassium hydroxide are added over 10 minutes under agitation between 15C and 300C, and the agitation is continued for a further hour. The reaction mixture is then neutralised with a few drops of acetic acid.After salting and extraction with dichloromethane as in Example 1 Part 1 a total of about 4.5 g of aldol is obtained boiling point 80 to 900C at 1 mm Hg nD 1.4540 to 1.4590 .By dehydration with 100 mg of potassium bisulphate at about 1500C and 30 mm Hg, about 2 g of 2,5 dimethyl 4isobutylidene dihydro 3 2H furanone are obtained boiling point at 30 mm Hg 1200C nD 1.4650. NMR analysis shows the presence of two methylenic protons at 6.15 G and at 6.25 G . Part 2 FuraneolThree grams of the product obtained by the method ofPart 1 above are reacted with ozone in 25 ml of ethanol at 100C in the manner described in Example 1, Part 2.After the addition of 15 ml of water, the product of the reaction with ozone is reduced with one gram of sodium bisulphite at 250 to 300C until negative results are obtained to the test with potassium iodide paper. The reaction mixture is then concentrated at 30 mm Hg until a residual volume of about 15 ml is obtained and is then heated under reflux for 10 hours in an atmosphere of nitrogen the product is neutralised to pH 6, then saturated with sodium chloride and extracted with four 30 ml portions of dichloromethane. After evaporation, the residue about 2.2 g is distilled at 0.5 mm Hg, giving a main fraction of about 1.1 g nod 1.5100 which crystallised as Furaneol.Example 3Part 1 2,5 dimethyl 4 benzylidene dihydro 3 2H furanone 10 g of 2,5 dimethyl dihydro 3 2H furanone and 15 g of newly distilled benzaldehyde are mixed together in 45 ml of methanol. The mixture is cooled to 100 to 150C, 5 g of 33 aqueous sodium hydroxide are added under agitation and the agitation is continued for a further 2 hours at 250C. The reaction mixture is then acidified with 5 N hydrochloric acid and extracted with three 50 ml portions of ether. The ether extract is washed with a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride and, after evaporation of the ether, the residue is distilled in a Vigreux column giving a main fraction of 8 to 9 grams at 1101300C under 1 mm Hg nD 1.5475 to 1.5530.This fraction consists of an isomeric mixture of 2,5 dimethyl4 benzylidene dihydro 3 2H furanone ratio of about 2 1 ascertained by means of chromatography in the vapour phase on DC 550 at 15 in a 2 m Column at 2300C . Part 2 Furaneol 4 grams of the product obtained in Part 1 above in 20 ml of methanol are reacted with ozone in the manner described in Example 1, part 2. After an addition of 10 ml of water and reduction with 1.5 g of sodium bisulphite, the methanol is evaporated under slight vacuum and the mixture is heated under reflux with 10 ml of 0 .5 N hydrochloric acid for about 3 hours in an atmosphere of nitrogen. The residue is neutralised to a pH of about 6, then saturated with sodium chloride and extracted with four 30 ml portions of dichloromethane.After the evaporation, a residue of about 3 grams is obtained from which about 1.3 grams of Furaneol, having the same characteristics as that of Example 1, is obtained by means of distillation.Example 4 Furaneol 6 grams of 2,5 dimethyl 4 ethylidene dihydro 3 2H furanone obtained according to Example 1, Part 1 are dissolved in a mixture of 25 ml of acetone and 12.5 ml of water and are reacted with ozone at lO0C in the manner described in Example 1, Part 2. The reaction product is mixed with 12.5 ml of water and reduced at 200 to 300C with 2 g of sodium bisulphite. The mixture is evaporated at 30 mm Hg until a residual volume of 16 ml is obtained to which 16 ml of 0.5 N hydrochloric acid are added. The mixture is heated under reflux for 5 hours in an atmosphere of nitrogen. After neutralisation with sodium carbonate to a pH of about 6 and saturation with sodium chloride, the mixture is extracted with four 50 ml portions of dichloromethane. After the evaporation of the solvent and distillation of the residue, 2 grams of a main fraction boiling point 80 900C at 0.5 mm Hg are obtained which crystallises when left in the form of pure Furaneol.