# Process for preparing and using a crystalline product.

## Abstract
Elongated crystals of CaSO₄.2H₂O 1 are formed by adding CaSO₄. When this product 1 is added to an aqueous di spersion of cellulose fibres 2 the crystals 1 combine with the fibres 2 to form a lattice. Paper products with reduced cellulose fibre proportion are prepared from this dispersion.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method for preparing and using a crystalline product based on calcium sulphate with special properties for the paper industry, characterised by starting from the addition of S04Cai H20 separately or jointly with aluminium sulphate or any other aluminium salt in water, elongate crystals forming which when added to an aqueous dispersion of cellulose fibres unite with them. 2. A method according to claim 1, characterised by the addition of SO4Ca H2O on top of water in agitation, adding the resulting product to a cellulose fibrous suspension, with the addition to the fibrous suspension of an aluminium salt sulphate or other dissolved or in solid form, either before or after the addition of the S04Ca H20 0 3. A method according to claim 1 or claim 2, characterised by the addition of SO4Ca H2O in the pulper jointly or separately with the aluminium salt. 4. A method according to any of claims 1 to 3, characterised by the addition separately and continuously of the three products water, SO4Ca H2O as a solid and the aluminium salt in solution to a dilutor reactor, from where it is transferred with the possibility of varying the flow to a second homogeneising deposit from which also with the possibility of varying the flow it passes to a vibrating filter with the possibility of having a return to the second product deposit without filtering , the filtered product passing to a third stock deposit from which it is measured out directly at one, two or more points at a time of the paper manufacture. 5. A method according to any of claims 1 to 4, characterised by the addition of SO4Ca i H20 on top of water in agitation, to which are added tensio active products, emulsifiers, dispersants, accelerators or retarders to control the speed and size of the crystals of S04Ca.2H2O formed, then adding the dispersion of this product SO4Ca.2H20 thus prepared, during paper manufacture, at any point before the intake tank. 6. A method according to any of claims 1 to 5, characterised by the formation of the product SO4Ca.2H20 during the preparation or manufacture of paper or cardboard, adding the product S04Ca. H20 in the pulper or other vat in agitation containing paper paste, or adding it before, during or after the incorporation of paste dry, wet or dispersed or recovery cuttings in the pulper or any other vat or deposit. 7. A paper product when manufactured by a process including the method of any of claims 1 to 6.

## Description
A method for preparing and using a crystalline product The invention relates to a method for preparing and using a crystalline product having special properties, of particular use in the paper industry, which allows a saving of from 5 to 25 of cellulose and from 3 to 18 in energy consumption depending on the quantity of the product used. The preparation and use of this product is characterised by starting from the addition of S04Cai H20 commonly called gypsum or scagliola and designated chemically sulphate of calcium semi hydrate separately or jointly with aluminium sulphate or any other aluminium salt soluble in water for instance, aluminium trichloride or aluminium polychloride . When both products are added to water in a state of agitation, elongate crystals are formed the breadth and length of which vary according to the percentage of both components.When these crystals are added in aqueous dispersion to an aqueous suspension of cellulose fibres they unite with them in a polar manner and by Van der Waals forces in such a way that results are obtained which are much superior to those afforded by conventional charges kaolin, calcium carbonate, talc, ground natural calcium sulphate ... , so that not only the charges but to a large extent also the cellulose are replaced. Or to summarise it permits of a large saving in that it replaces from 5 to 25 of cellulose being itself a product five times cheaper and at the same time reduces the consumption of energy by from 3 to 18 20 . The following is a detailed description of embodiments of the invention, reference being made to the accompanying drawings in which Figure 1 shows diagrammatically the crystalline form of the product used in the method according to the invention, Figure 2 shows diagrammatically a crystal lattice formed by the product, Figure 3 shows diagrammatically the product combined with a cellulose suspension, and Figure 4 is a diagrammatic representation of a process including the method according to the invention. The advantages afforded by this product calcium sulphate dihydrate crystallised, jointly with aluminium sulphate are owed to the crystalline form 1 which it acquires and to the distribution of charges on its surface, density zones of positive and negative electrical charge, approximately as indicated in Figure 1 of the drawings attached by way of example. This causes it to tend to join with the other crystals 1 forming a lattice like that in Figure 2, so that hardly any crystal 1 remains alone. Having these positive charges, since cellulose throughout its normal field of work has a negative electrokinetic potential, the more so the higher the pH, it tends to unite with the cellulose fibres 2 in the form illustrated in Figure 3. This causes the combination of both products cellulose fibre 2 and crystals 1 of calcium sulphate dihydrate with aluminium sulphate to acquire an unusual consistency, as a result of which better conditions of resistence are obtained, which permits of increasing the of charge, a much better yield of both on the manufacturing table and a greater facility in dewatering in the cross section of dried material, which results in a considerable saving in energy. The action described above for certain uses in which the presence of aluminium ions bonded with diketenes is not of interest, or cheap papers, may take place without the action and presence of aluminium salts, revealing then distinct, although also very interesting, properties. Calcium sulphate semi hydrate is more soluble than calcium sulphate dihydrate this is why when calcium sulphate semi hydrate is placed in an aqueous medium it is transformed into calcium sulphate dihydrate. When S04Cai H20 is added as well as water in a deposit being agitated, as it dissolves in the water and succeeds in reaching the product of solubility of the SO4Ca2H2O, the latter is precipitated in a crystalline form this reaction continues until all the S04Cai H20 has changed toEMI3.1 and the precipitation reaction which takes place is the following SO4Ca H2O in aqueous medium c, S04 Ca and then, as it reaches the product of solubility it precipitates w SQ4Ca 2H2O crystalline in very uniform needles. If this reaction takes place in the innermost part of a dispersion suspension of cellulose fibres , the formation of crystals occurs on the fibres themselves, the former being very well attached to the latter so that later, when the suspension reaches the manufacturing table or drums, these crystals have a retention much superior to that of the other charges almost double and also improve the retention of fine cellulose matter and when the paper is finished, this fixation of the crystals on the cellulose fibres prevents there being any loosening of fine powder a very annoying and damaging matter which conventional charges usually cause kaolin, talc, calcium carbonate, ground calcium sulphate, etc. Another method of adding and preparing the product is continuously, both in its preparation and its addition. The method comprises continuously adding water and calcium sulphate semi hydrate to a deposit being agitated, and this proceeding continuously to a homogeneising deposit slow speed , thenceforward the product may be proportioned either in the pulper, the mixing vat or the machine headbox, although it may be added in any other place. This gives the advantage of not having to keep large stocks of prepared product and, in addition, of effecting a rapid change of addition according to requirements. For the preparation of this product both directly as a solid on the fibrous suspension and previously in water in a state of agitation for later addition, as described above, tensio active products may be added dispersants, emulsifiers, accelerators, retarders, for instance citric acid, sodic acid, aluminium sulphate, sulphuric acid, calcium hydroxide, sodium hydroxide, sodium citrate,etc. With these products in very small additions of 1 to 100 parts per 10,000 of dry product calculated on dry sulphate semi hydrate added, the speed of solubility and subsequent crystal formation may be varied. By means of them control over the size of the crystals is also possible, although when it is of interest that this size should be the smallest possible this is achieved better with carboxy methyl celluloses or similar products. To obtain the results which are going to be explained, the addition of the said products is not essential, but the addition may be made exclusively with calcium sulphate semi hydrate. The addition of calcium sulphate semi hydrate without the presence of aluminium sulphate is of interest since in some cases the presence of an aluminium ion could be prejudical for example, bonded with diketenes , also resulting in a somewhat cheaper product. As will be seen in Example No. 2, the yield is greater when the reaction is effected in the presence of aluminium ion salts. Thus the reaction taking place in the presence of aluminium ion salts, the qualities afforded yield, energy saving, substitution of cellulose etc are superior to those afforded by crystalline calcium sulphate dihydrate without aluminium sulphate and considerably more than normal charges kaolin, talc, calcium carbonate, ground calcium sulphate etc .But the calcium sulphate dihydrate resulting from hydration of the semi hydrate is superior to all the normal charges and has the advantage that it can be used when it bonds with diketenes, whilst on the other hand crystalline calcium sulphate dihydrate with an aluminium salt does not. For better understanding of the present descriptive memorandum and as simply illustrating but not limiting the scope of the invention, five practical examples of carrying out the method described are set out below.EXAMPLE No. 1. Continuous preparation of the product can be effected in the manner shown in Figure 4, according to which are added continuously to a deposit reactor 3, rotating at approximately 750 rpm, tensio active material 4 for instance sodium sulphosuccinate in the proportion of 0.03,sulphate of aluminium 5 in solution in the proportion of 1.46 calculated in the dry state , 13.5 of calcium sulphate semi hydrate 6 with some calcium hydroxide and 85 of water 6 , by means of the transfer pump 7 with recirculation to maintain the level . This passes to the homogeneising and stock deposit 8, the agitator of which 9 rotates at approximately 10 rpm, inside which there is a recirculating pump 10 to assist homogeneisation.Dispersal from the homogeneising deposit 8 of the crystallised charge 12 is effected with a mono proportioning pump 11 and it is added to paper making immediately after the centrifugal cleaners.EXAMPLE No. 2. Let a circuit of pastes be supposed with a fibrous composition of 50 of long fibre spruce to the sulphate and 50 of short fibre eucalyptus to the sulphate. A paper was manufactured of 120 gr m2 at a concentration at the machine headbox of 0.8 , Foudrinier machine. In the mixing vat 1 of sodium resinate and 4 of aluminium sulphate were added. The charges which are the object of the comparative study kaolin, talc, ground natural calcium sulphate previously dispersed were added immediately after the cleaners, and at this point was also added the crystalline product calcium sulphate dihydrate crystallised jointly with aluminium sulphate. Working in this manner, the percentage of the charge was varied and the results were as follows EMI6.1 tb SEP gr litre tb SEP Type SEP SEP Conc. SEP Machine SEP Length SEP of SEP Dennison SEP Bentsens SEP Rto tb of SEP of SEP bonded SEP Velocity SEP break SEP Waxes SEP Porosity SEP charge tb SEP charge SEP charge SEP waters SEP m min SEP Km SEP tb phate SEP 15 SEP 0.72 SEP 156 SEP 7.8 4 SEP 2 SEP SEP 16 14 SEP 1150 SEP 92 SEP tb CA AR SEP tb 20 SEP 0.78 SEP 160 SEP 7.1 SEP .6 SEP SEP 16 14 SEP SEP 950 SEP 95 tb SEP 25 SEP 0.65 SEP 164 SEP 6 3 3,4 SEP 1 SEP 16 14 SEP 750 SEP 94 SEP tb SEP 30 SEP 0.68 SEP 168 SEP 5.7 3.3 SEP 14 14 SEP 650 SEP 94 SEP tb Kaolin SEP 15 SEP 1.14 SEP 150 SEP 6.1 3.3 SEP 16 14 SEP 1200 SEP 68 tb SEP 20 SEP 1.38 SEP 153 SEP 1 SEP SEP 5 7 3.2 SEP SEP 14 14 SEP 1400 SEP 62 tb Talcum SEP 15 SEP 1.21 SEP 152 SEP 6.2 3.4 SEP 4 SEP 16 14 SEP 1200 SEP 71 tb Ground tb natural SEP 15 SEP 1.11 SEP 152 SEP 6.3 3.2 SEP 14 14 SEP 1350 SEP 65 tb sulphate tb SEP 20 SEP 1.32 SEP 154 SEP 5.8 3.2 SEP l4 l4 SEP 1550 SEP 58 tb In these results one can see easily the advantages which the method of preparation and use, the object of this invention, presents in regard to paper manufacture substitution of more than 10 of cellulose and reduction in energy consumption by more than 10 , as well as better recovery of solids, which means that contamination is practically half the normal.EXAMPLE No. 3. In this example exactly the same quantities of products charges and fibres have been added as in the previous example, but all were added directly, without dispersion in water, in the pulper, viz all the solid products. In this case a previously prepared mixture by which is meant sulphate semi hydrate and aluminium sulphate was added. In this case the test also gave results similar to those given before apart from the yield of the charges, which was approximately 15 lower in the conventional ones kaolin, talc and ground natural calcium sulphate . In the case of calcium sulphate dihydrate crystallised together with aluminium sulphate directly in the body of the fibrous suspension, the reduction in yield was of the order of 8 .EXAMPLE No. 4. We are going to compare the effect produced by the addition of calcium sulphate dihydrate in crystalline form added in the form of calcium sulphate semi hydrate to the pulper directly as a solid with the addition of kaolin in the same quantity and form. The calcium sulphate semi hydrate must be added when there is but little paste and a lot of water in the pulper, so that there is a good deal of agitation. In each pulper are added 150 Kg of both products kaolin and calcium sulphate semi hydrate in this manner during the whole of one day work is done with kaolin and during the following day with calcium sulphate semi hydrate. Additions are made discontinuously of 9500 litres of water, followed by 150 Kg of the charge in agitation, again followed by 350 Kg of spruce fibre sulphate cellulose paste. Once dispersed completely, the mixture triturated passes through a depelletiser and then through a conical refiner to reach the machine vat, from where the paste is incorporated under control by means of a bucket conveyor to a channel in which it is diluted at 1 . It then passes to a vibrating cleaner from where it passes to another channel in which is incorporated polyacrylamide in 0.05 solution anionic 10,000,000 molecular weight , in the proportion of 1 Kg calculated dry of polyacrylamide to ten thousand Kg of paste charge, also calculated dry. The results obtained were 1. An improvement in the drying and thus a reduction in energy consumption of the order of 4 in paper manufactured with crystalline calcium sulphate dihydrate formed from added calcium sulphate semi hydrate, compared with paper manufactured with kaolin. 2. An increase in yield of the charge in that a reduction in the consumption of cellulose paste was recorded of the order of 3.5 of paper manufactured with crystalline calcium sulphate dihydrate compared with paper manufactured with kaolin. EXAMPLE No. 5. We follow exactly the same system as in ExampleNo. 1, but now we are going to compare the change in resistence possessed by the paper when using four distinct charges Ia. Crystalline calcium sulphate dihydrate with aluminium sulphate, obtained frob 85 calcium sulphate semi hydrate and 12 aluminium sulphate and 3 calcium hydroxide. 2a. Crystalline calcium sulphate dihydrate obtained from calcium sulphate semi hydrate. 3a. Kaolin. 4a. Ground natural calcium sulphate.From the first we put into the paper 15 20 25 30 From the second we put into the paper 15 20 25 From the third we put into the paper 15 20 From the fourth we put into the paper 15 20 The results were as follows EMI9.1 tb Charge SEP tb No. SEP Type SEP of SEP charge SEP SEP of SEP charge SEP L.B. SEP L.B. tb SEP in SEP the SEP D SEP F SEP C SEP F tb SEP paper tb SEP 1 SEP Crystalline SEP calcium SEP sulphate tb SEP dihydrate SEP with SEP aluminium SEP 15 SEP 7.8 SEP 4.2 tb SEP sulphate tb SEP 1 SEP SEP 20 SEP SEP 7.1 SEP 3.4 tb SEP 1 SEP e SEP SEP 25 SEP 6.1 SEP 3.4 tb SEP 1 SEP SEP 30 SEP SEP 5.6 SEP 2.8 tb SEP 2 SEP Crystalline SEP calcium SEP sulphate SEP 15 SEP 7.3 SEP 3.8 tb SEP dihydrate SEP tb SEP 2 SEP I1 SEP SEP 20 SEP 6.2 SEP 3.1 tb SEP 2 SEP SEP 25 SEP 5 7 SEP SEP 3.1 tb SEP 3 SEP Kaolin SEP 15 SEP 6.1 SEP 3.0 SEP tb SEP 3 SEP ll SEP SEP 20 SEP 5.6 SEP 2.7 tb SEP 4 SEP Groundnatural SEP calcium SEP 15 SEP 6.3 SEP 3.2 SEP tb SEP sulphate SEP SEP hate tb SEP 4 SEP SEP 20 SEP 5.8 SEP 2.9 tb From the above results it can be seen that withCharge No. 2 prepared and used as set out in this invention, although it does not achieve the results ofCharge No. 1, the results of Charges Nos. 3 and 4 improve, so that for the same resistence measured in length of break with a paper of 90 gr m2 it is possible to replace in addition 5 of cellulose, with the consequent important benefit which this represents. Moreover, from these resistence results it was noted that with the 25 ofCharge No. 2 an economy of 3.5 of energy consumption was obtained compared with Charges No. 3 and 4.