# Organic peroxides and use of same.

## Abstract
Organic peroxides having two peroxide functional groups and containing in the molecule an amino nitrogen atom, having the general formula The peroxides are employed in the cross linking of plastomers, natural and synthetic elastomers and thermoset ting resins.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An organic peroxide characterized by having two peroxide functional groups and containing in the molecule an amino nitrogen atom, and being of the general formula EMI18.1 wherein R1, R2 are each an alkyl radical having 1 to 8 carbon atoms, optionally aryl substituted R3 is hydrogen, an alkyl radical having 1 to 8 carbon atoms, a cycloalkyl radical having 5 6 carbon atoms in the ring, an aryl radical or an arylalkyl radical optionally halogen, alkoxy, carboalkoxy or alkyl mono or poly substituted R4 is a methylene, ethylene or trimethylene radical, optionally halogen, alkoxy, carboalkoxy, aryl or alkyl mono or poly substituted andR5 is a methylene or ethylene radical, optionally halogen, alkoxy, carboalkoxy, aryl or alkyl mono or poly substituted. 2. 4,4 di tobutylperoxy 2,2,6,6 tetramethylpiperidine. 3. 4,4 di t.butylperoxy 1 ,2,2,6,6 pentamethylpiperidine0 40 4,4 di t.butylperoxy 2,6 diphenylpiperidine. 5. 4,4 di t.amylperoxy 2,2,6,6 tetramethylpiperidineO 6. 4,4 di tObutylperoxy 2,6 diphenyl 3,5 dimethylpiperidine. 7. 1 benzyl 4,4 di t.butylperoxy 2,6 di methoxyphenyl 3,5 dimethylpiperidine. 8. 1 methyl 4,4 di t.butylperoxy piperidineO 9. 1 benzyl 4,4 di t.butylperoxy piperidine. 10. 1 92 phenylethyl 4,4 di t.butylperoxy piperidine. 11. 1 benzzl 3 carboethoxy 4,4 di t.butylperoxy piperidineO 12. 4 ,4 di cumylperoxy 1 ,2,2,6,6 pentamethylpiperidine. 13. 4,4 di cumylperoxy 2,2,6,6 tetramethylpiperidine. 14. 1 benzyl 3,3 di t.butylperoxy 4 carboethoxypiperidine. 150 1 benzyl 3 ,3 di t.butylperoxy piperidine. 16. 1 ethyl 3 ,3 di t.butylperoxy piperidine. 17. 1 benzyl 3,3 di cumylperoxy piperidine. 18. 1 benzyl 3, 3 di t.butylperoxy pyrrolidine. 19. 1 benzyl 3,3 di cumylperoxy pyrrolidine. 20. An organic peroxide as claimed in Claim 1, characterized in that R1,R2 are each a tertiary alkyl group, optionally aryl substituted. 21o An organic peroxide as claimed in Claim 20, characterized in that R1,R2 are each t.butyl, t.amyl, t.octyl or cumyl. 22. A composition characterized by comprising a plastomeric or a natural or synthetic elastomeric polymer and a compound as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 21. 23. A composition as claimed in Claim 22, characterized in that the polymer is polyethylene or an ethylene propylene copolymer. 24. A composition as claimed in Claim 22 or 23, characterized in that the amount by weight of peroxide cross linking agent employed is from 005 to 10 with respect to the plastomer. 25. A composition as claimed in Claim 24, characterized in that the amount by weight of peroxide cross linking agent employed is from 2 to 5 with respect to the plastomer. 26. A composition as claimed in Claim 22 or 23, characterized in that the amount by weight of peroxide vulcanizing agent employed is from 0.5 to 10 with respect to the elastomer. 27. A composition as claimed in Claim 26, chKracterized in that the amount by weight of peroxide vulcanizing agent employed is from 2 to 5 with respect to the elastomer. 28. A composition as claimed in Claim 23, characterized by comprising the following components in the following amounts ethylene propylene copolymer 100 parts by weight carbon black 50 st ZnO or MgO 5 sulphur 0.3 V VI 29. A composition characterized by comprising a thermosetting resin and a compound as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 21. 30. A composition as claimed in 29, characterized in that the thermosetting resin is an unsaturated polyester resin. 31. A composition as claimed in Claim 29 or 30, characterized in that the amount by weight of peroxide employed is from 0.01 to 5 with respect to the resin. 32. A composition as claimed in any of Claims 22 to 31, characterized by further comprising a filler and or cross linking co agent. 33. A process for cross linking the composition according to Claim 22, characterized in that the cross linking is effected at a temperature of from 1000 to 200 C, at a pressure of from 50 to 200 Kg cm2, for from 5 to 60 minutes. 34. A process as claimed in Claim 33, characterized in that the cross linking is effected at a temperature of 140 to 16000. 35. A process as claimed in Claim 33 or 34, characterized in that the cross linking is effected for 10 to 30 minutes 36. A process for vulcanizing the composition according to Claim 23 or 32, characterized in that the vulcanizing is effected at a temperature of from 1400 to 1900C, for from 5 to 200 minutes. 37. A process as claimed in Claim 36, characterized in that the vulcanizing is effected at a temperature of from 150 to 7a00C, 38. A process as claimed in Claim 36 or 37, characterized in that the vulcanizing is effected for from 5 to 30 minutes. 39. A process for hardening the composition according toClaim 29 or 30, characterized in that the hardening is effected at a temperature of from 500 to 1700 C. 40. A process as claimed in Claim 39, characterized in that the hardening is effected at a temperature of from 800 to 1150C. 41. The use of a diperoxide according to any of Claims 1 to 21, as a cross linking agent for a plastomer, natural or synthetic elastomer or unsaturated polyester resin.

## Description
ORGANIC PEROXIDES AND USE OF SAME This invention relates to organic peroxides and more particularly to organic peroxides having two peroxide functional groups and containing in the molecule an amino nitrogen atom, and to the use of the same in the cross linking of plastomers, natural and synthetic elastomers and thermosetting resins. As is known, organic compounds of peroxide nature are particularly important as generators of free radicals and as a consequence as starters of radicalic polymerizations, as cross linking agents of plastomers and as vulcanizing agents of natural and synthetic elastomers. However, not all compounds of peroxide nature are employable in cross linking as some types of peroxides are quite difficult to process due to their tendency to decompose, sometimes very strongly, at the operative temperature. Other compounds have a too short semi life time, at the temperature of incorporation into the polymer, thus causing a certain degree of pre cross linking during the mixing step. Thus it is an object of the present invention to provide a particular type of new peroxides containing in their molecule an amino nitrogen atom, having a good stability and a low volatility, and suitable as cross linking agents of plastomers, natural and synthetic elastomers and thermosetting resins. It has now been found that such object is achieved by employing peroxides having two peroxide functional groups and containing in the molecule an amino nitrogen atom. The present invention provides an organic peroxide having two peroxide functional groups and containing in the molecule an amino nitrogen atom, having the general formula EMI2.1 whereinR1, R2 are each an alkyl radical having 1 to 8 carbon atoms, optionally aryl substituted, preferably a tertiary alkyl group such as t butyl, t amyl, t octyl and cumyl R3 is hydrogen, an alkyl radical having I to 8 carbon atoms, a cycloalkyl radical having 5 6 carbon atoms in the ring, an aryl radical, or an arylalkyl radical, optionally halogen, alkoxy, carboalkoxy or alkyl mono of poly substituted is is a methylene, ethylene or trimetbylene radical, optionally halogen, alkoxy, carboalkoxy, aryl or alkyl mono or poly substituted and R5 is a methylene or ethylene radical, optionally halogen, alkoxy, carboalkoxy, aryl or alkyl mono or poly substituted. It is apparent that, when R4 methylene and R5 ethylene, the resulting compound is a penta atomic ring i.e. a derivative of pyrrolidine , and when R4 ethylene and R5 ethylene or when R4 trimethylene and methylene, the resulting compound is an hexa atomic ring i.e. a derivative of piperidine . Some examples of compounds according to the invention are a 4,4 di t.butylperoxy 2,2,6,6 tetramethylpiperidine b 4,4di t,butylperoxy 1 ,2,2,6,6 pentamethylpiperidine c 4, 4 di t.butylperoxy 2, 6 diphenylpiperidine d 4,4 di t.amylperoxy 2,2,6,6 tetramethylpiperidine e 4,4 di t.butylperoxy 2,6 diphenyl 3,5 dimethylpiperidine f 1 benzzl 4,4 di t.butylperoxy 2,6 di methoxgphenyl 3,5 dimethylpiperidine g 1 methyl 4, 4 di t .butylperoxy piperidine h 1 benzyl 4,4 di t.butylperoxy piperidine i 1 2 phenylethyl 4,4 di t.butylperoxy piperidine 1 1 benzyl 3 carboethoxy 4,4 di t.butylperoxy piperidine m 4,4 di cumylperoxy 1,2,2,6,6 pentamethylpiperidine n 4,4 di cumylperoxy 2,2,6,6 tetramethylpiperidine o 1 benzyl 3,3 di t.butylperoxy 4 carboethoxypiperidine p 1 benzyl 3,3 di t.butylperoxy piperidine q 1 ethyl 3,3 di t.butylperoxy piperidine r 1 benzyl 3,3 di cumylperoxy piperidine s 1 benzyl 3,3 di t.butylperoxy pyrrolidine t 1 benzyl 3,3 di cumylperoxy pyrrolidine. The diperoxides according to the present invention exhibit a relatively high decomposition temperature and a good stability and a low volatility at higher temperatures than room temperature, which permits a good incorporation thereof into polymeric materials without causing any undesirable side phenomena, such as pre cross linking and pre vulcanization. It has been ascertained that the diperoxides of the present invention act as excellent cross linking agents of plastomers, natural and synthetic elastomers and of thermosetting resins. This class of nitrogenous peroxides exhibits the characteristics of being insensible to the action of minor amounts of acids, as the latter are neutralized by salifi cation with the nitrogen atom, as a result of which they cannot decompose the peroxide part of the molecule. There may be formed a composition comprising a plastomeric or a natural or synthetic elastomeric polymer and a peroxide compound according to the invention. A suitable plastomeric polymer is ethylene and a suitable elastomeric polymer is an ethylene propylene copolymer. Cross linking is suitably effected at a temperature of from 1000 to 2000 C, preferably from 1400 to 1600C, at a pressure of from 50 to 200 Kg cm2, for from 5 to 60 minutes, preferably from 10 to 30 minutes. The concentration by weight of the peroxide is preferably from 0.5 to 10 , more preferably from 2 to 5 , with respect to the plastomer. Vulcanisation is uitably effected at a temperature of from 140 to 190 C, preferably from 150 to 170 C, for from 5 to 200 minutes, preferably from 5 to 30 minutes, employing an ethylene propylene copolymer. The concentration by weight of the peroxide is preferably from 0.5 to 10 , more preferably from 2 to 5 , with respect to the elastomer. Mixes having the following composition have proved to be particularly suitable ethylene propylene copolymer 100 parts by weight HAF carbon black 20 80 ZnO 1 10 sulphur 0.1 05. peroxide 0.005 0.02 moles. One particular preferred mix comprises the following components in the following amounts ethylene propylene copolymer 100 parts by weight carbon black 50 ZnO or MgO 5 II sulphur 0.3 I There may be also formed a composition comprising a thermosetting resin and a peroxide compound according to the invention. he thermosetting resin may be suitably an unsaturated poly ester resin. Hardening is suitably effected at a temperature of from 500 to 17O0C, preferably from 800 to 1150C, especially when employing an unsaturated polyester resin. The concentration by weight of the peroxide is preferably from 0001 to 5 with respect to the resin0 The diperoxides according to the invention can be prepared by following known methods. According to a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the diperoxides can be prepared by reacting a tertiary organic hydroperoxide with an amino organic compound containing a carbonyl group, at low temperature, in the presence of an inorganic or organic acid. The invention will be further described with reference to the following illustrative Examples. EXAMPLE 1Preparation of 4,4 di t.butylperoxy 2,2,6,6 tetramethylpiperidine.15.5 g of triacetonamine 2,2,6,6 tetramethyl 4 piperidone 0.1 mole and 30 g of a 70 solution of t.butylhydroperoxide in water were introduced into a flask equipped with a stirrer and a thermometer. The temperature of the mixture was brought to about 150C and over 2 hours there were introduced 88 g of 70 sulphuric acid, keeping the temperature at about 15 200C. The mass was stirred for 2 3 hours at 150C, whereupon 550 g of an aqueous solution of 10 sodium hydroxide were added in order to release the amine as a free base and to remove t.butylhydroperoxide, which was present in excess, as sodium salt the peroxide so synthetized was then extracted with 100 ml of solvent for example hexane . After separation of the phases, the organic phase was washed with water to remove unreacted triacetonamine, if any, and to neutralize the solution.After removal of the solvent, 25 g of a clear liquid that upon exposure to the air turns into a low melting solid were obtained, which exhibited the following characteristics melting point 440C density at 500C 0.9 C found 64.05 calculated 64.32 , H found 11.30 calculated 11.11 , N found 4.30 calculated 4.41 iodometric analysis 99 gas chromatographic analysis 99 decomposition temperature 1300C semi life time at 1220C 30 minutes 0.1 M in dodecane .On the basis of N.M.R., I.R. and mass spectra and on the basis of centesimal analyses, the product was identified as 4,4 di t.butylperoxy 2,2,6,6 tetramethylpiperidine having the following formulaEMI7.1 EXAMPLE 2Preparation of 4,4 di t.butylperoxy 1,2,2,6,6 pentamethylpiperidine.The synthesis was conducted by operating according to the procedure described in Example 1, using, as a starting ketone, N methyl triacetonamine 1,2,2,6,6 pentamethyl 4piperidone 16.9 g 0.1 mole .There were obtained 15 g of a light yellow liquid which exhibited the following characteristics C found 64.74 calculated 65.22 , H found 11.06 calculated 11.24 , N found 4.06 calculated 4.22 iodometric analysis 98 gas chromatographic analysis 98 decomposition temperature 1300C semi life time at 1210C 30 minutes 0.1 M in dodeçane . On the basis of N.M.R., I.R. and mass spectra and on the basis of centesimal analyses, the product was identified as 4,4di t .butylperoxy 1 2,2,6, 6 pentamethylpiperi ne having the following formulaEMI8.1 EXAMPLE 3Preparation of 4,4 di t.butylperoxy 2,6 diphenylpiperidine.The synthesis was conducted by operating according to the procedure described in Example 1, using, as a starting ketone, 2,6 diphenyl 4 piperidone 25 g 0.1 mole .The product obtained 5 g was crystallized from methanol and exhibited the following characteristics white crystalline solid melting point 1180C C found 72051 calculated 72.61 , H found 8.68 calculated 8.53 , N found 3.12 calculated 3.38 iodometric analysis 99 decomposition temperature 130 C semi life time at 1230C 30 minutes 0.1 M in dodecane .On the basis of N.M.R. and I.R spectra and on the basis of centesimal analyses, the product was identified as 4,4 di t.butylperoxy 2,6 diphenylpiperidine having the following formulaEMI9.1 EXAMPLE 4Preparation of 4,4 di t.amylperoxy 2,2,6,6 tetramethylpiperidine.15.5 g of triacetonamine 2,2,6,6 tetramethyl 4 piperidone 0.1 mole and 62 g of a 34 solution of t.amylhydroperoxide in hexane were introduced into a flask equipped with a stirrer and a thermometer. The temperature of the mixture was brought to about 150C and over 90 minutes there were introduced 60 g of 70 sulphuric acid, keeping the temperature at about 15 20 C. The mass was stirred for about 6 hours at 150C, whereupon 400 g of an aqueous solution of 10 sodium hydroxide were added in order to release the amine as a free base.After separation of the phases, the organic phase was washed with water to remove unreacted triacetonamine, if any, and to neutralize the solution.After removal of the solvent 10 g of a light yellow liquid were obtained, which exhibited the following characteristics C found 65.80 calculated 66.04 , H found 11.10 calculated 11.37 , N found 4.30 calculated 4.05 iodometric analysis 95 gas chromatographic analysis 93 decomposition temperature 1000C semi life time at 1210C 30 minutes 0.1 M in dodecane .On the basis of N.M0R., I.R,, and mass spectra and on the basis of centesimal analyses, the product was identified as 4,4 di t.amylperoxy 2,2,6,6 tetramethylpiperidine having the following formulaEMI11.1 EXAMPLE 5 Cross linking Cross linking tests were carried out on polyethylene based mixes of the type Fertene UK5 1830 registered Trade Mark of Montedison S.p.A. having a density 0.917, and a grade 1.2 g 10 min. at 190 C AS2M D 1238 , additioned with 0.01 moles of peroxide for 100 g of polyethylene. Table 1 shows the conditions under which the cross linking was effected as well as the cross linking degree so obtained by using peroxides prepared according to Examples 1 and 2 in comparison with Trigonox 29 40 registered Trade Mark ofAKZO Co. consisting of 40 of 1,1 di ter.butylperoxy 5,5,5 trimethylcyclohexane and 60 of an inert inorganic carrier The polyethylene cross linking degree was measured by determining the solubility of the polymer in an organic solvent decaline , according to the procedure prescribed by method ASTM D 2765. The polyethylene not cross linked was thoroughly soluble in the solvent. TABLE 1C R O S S L I N K I N GEMI13.1 tb SEP TOIGO SEP in SEP the tb SEP Composition SEP NOX SEP A SEP B SEP absence tb SEP 29 40 SEP of SEP pero tb SEP xide tb low SEP density SEP poly tb ethylene SEP parts SEP by SEP weight SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb peroxide SEP moles SEP 0.01 SEP 0.01 SEP 0.01 SEP tb Cross linking SEP in SEP press SEP 30 SEP minutes SEP at SEP 105 SEP C tb undissolved SEP thorou tb polyethylene SEP g 100 SEP g SEP 63.5 SEP 66.2 SEP 67.5 SEP ghly SEP so tb luble tb yield SEP strength SEP Kg cm SEP 53.4 SEP 52.3 SEP 50.8 SEP SEP 57.9 tb tensile SEP strength SEP Kg cm2 SEP 148 SEP 158 SEP 165. tb elongation SEP at SEP break SEP SEP 252 SEP 258 SEP 265 SEP 150 tb Notes A 4,4 di t. butylperoxy 2,2,6,6 tetramethylpiperidineB 4,4 di t. butlyperoxy 1,2,2,6,6 pentamethylpiperidine EXAMPLE 6VulcanizationVulcanization tests were effected on mixes based on ethylene propylene copolymer DU2RAL CO 054 registeredTrade Mark of Montedison S.p.A. consisting of 55 bymoles of ethylene Mooney ML 1 14 viscosity at 1000C 45.The conditions under which vulcanization was carried out as well as the rheological and physical characteristics of the vulcanized products obtained by using the peroxides prepared in Examples 1, 2, 3 and 4 for vulcanization times of 20 minutes at a temperature of 1500C, in comparison with Trigonox 29 40, are given in Table 20 TABLE 2V U L C A N I Z A T I O N EMI15.1 SEP C SEP O SEP M SEP P SEP O SEP S SEP I SEP T SEP I SEP O SEP N SEP TRIGONOX tb SEP A SEP B SEP C SEP D tb SEP 29 40 tb Dutral SEP co SEP 054 SEP parts SEP by SEP weight SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb Carbon SEP black SEP HAF SEP SEP SEP SEP 50 SEP 50 SEP 50 SEP 50 SEP 50 tb Zno SEP SEP SEP SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 tb S SEP SEP SEP SEP 0.3 SEP 0.3 SEP 0.3 SEP 0.3 SEP 0.3 tb Peroxide SEP moles SEP SEP SEP SEP 0.01 SEP 0.01 SEP 0.01 SEP 0.01 SEP 0.01 tb Vulcanization SEP in SEP press SEP 20 SEP minutes SEP et SEP 150 SEP C tb Starting SEP characteristics tb Tensile SEP strength SEP Kg cmê SEP 203 SEP 204 SEP 215 SEP 196 SEP 160 tb Elongation SEP at SEP break SEP SEP 306 SEP 293 SEP 300 SEP 313 SEP 450 tb Modulus SEP 200 SEP Kg cmê SEP 95 SEP 106 SEP 97 SEP 96 SEP 65 tb Tearing SEP resistance SEP Kg cm SEP 36 SEP 37 SEP 36 SEP 37 SEP 45 tb Shore SEP A SEP hardness SEP 71 SEP 70 SEP 71 SEP 69 SEP 65 tb Characteristics SEP after SEP hardening SEP in SEP oven SEP 7 SEP days SEP at SEP 125 SEP C tb SEP tensile SEP strength SEP SEP 3.9 SEP 3.6 SEP 3.7 SEP 1.1 SEP 6.5 tb SEP elongation SEP at SEP break SEP SEP 12.6 SEP 12 SEP 11.2 SEP 8.3 SEP 18 tb SEP modulus SEP 200 SEP SEP 14.4 SEP 12 SEP 11.5 SEP 16.6 SEP 20 tb SEP Shore SEP A SEP hardness SEP variation SEP in SEP points SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP n.d. tb Compression SEP Set SEP SEP 70 SEP hours SEP at SEP 100 SEP C SEP 20 SEP 15 SEP 20 SEP 15 SEP 40 tb Mooney SEP scorch SEP t10 SEP minutes SEP 6 45 SEP 6 45 SEP 7 SEP 6 30 SEP 8 tb Notes to Table 2A 4,4 di t.butylperoxy 2,2,6,6 tetramethylpiperidine B 4,4 di t.butylperoxy 1 ,2,2 ,6,6 pentamethylpiperidine C 4,4 di t.butylperoxy 2,6 diphenylpiperidine D 4,4 di t.amylperoxy 2,2,6,6 tetrasethylpiperidine. EXAMPLE 7Hardening of unsaturated qolyester resins. Hardening tests of unsaturated polyester resins were carried out on a resin having the following composition phthalic anhydride 0.6 moles maleic anhydride 0.4 propylene glycol 1.05 hydroquinone 150 ppm styrene approximately 36 calculated on the basis of the finished product.Such a resin, after addition with 1 of peroxide, was hardened at temperatures ranging from 800 to 1150 C both the maximum temperature attained by the resin during the hardening step and the time required to reach such temperature hardening time were taken.The results are given in Table 3, where the peroxide 4,4 di t.butylperoxy 2,2,6,6 tetramethylpiperidine is compared with Trigonox 29 B 50 commercial peroxide consisting of 50 of 1,1 di t.butylperoxy 3,3,5 trimethylcyclohexane and 50 of plasticizer TABLE 3HARDENING OF UNSATURATED POLYESTER RESINSEMI17.1 tb SEP bath SEP max. SEP exothermic SEP hardening SEP time tb temperature SEP temperature tb SEP OC SEP TRIGONOX SEP A SEP SEP TRIGONOX SEP A SEP tb SEP 29 SEP B 50 SEP 29 SEP B 50 tb SEP 80 SEP 190 SEP 95 SEP 22 SEP 95 tb SEP 90 SEP 205 SEP 207 SEP 15 SEP 40 tb SEP 100 SEP 207 SEP 212 SEP 8 SEP 21 tb SEP 115 SEP 210 SEP 212 SEP 4 SEP 9 tb NoteA 4,4 di t. butylperoxy 2,2,6,6 tetramethylpiperidine.