# Detergent compositions.

## Abstract
A particulate alkaline detergent with unexpectantly good bleaching performance and with reduced phosphorus con tent contains 5 40 detergent active, 12.5 25 tripolyphos phate, 7.0 36 aluminosilicate builder such as zeolite, 5 30 peroxybleach such as sodium perborate and 0.1 to 15 activator such as TAED, the perborate to TAED ratio being between 2 1 and 15 1. The detergent active may be anionic material or a mixture of an anionic material and a minor amount of nonionic material. The compositions are particu larly suitable for containing fluorescers and show surprising ly improved bleaching performance as water hardness increases.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A particulate alkaline detergent composition comprising at least one synthetic detergent active material, an alkali metal tripolyphosphate, a waterinsoluble aluminosilicate detergency.builder material, a peroxy bleach and an activator for said peroxy bleach, characterised in that it contains from about 5 to about 40 by weight of said synthetic detergent active material from about 12.58 to about 25 by weight of said alkali metal tripolyphosphate calculated on an anhydrous basis from about 7.08 to about 36 by weight of said water insoluble aluminosilicate detergency builder material calculated on an anhydrous basis from about 5 to about 30 by weight of a peroxybleach and up to about 15 by weight of an activator for said bleach, the weight ratio of said peroxy bleach to said activator being between about 2 1 and about 15 1. 2. A composition according to Claim 1, characterised in that the sum of the percentage quantity of the alkali metal tripolyphosphate and half the percentage quantity of the aluminosilicate material lies between about 25 and about 37. 3. A composition according to Claim 1, characterised in that said at least one synthetic detergent active material is selected from anionic synthetic detergent active materials and mixtures thereof with a lesser amount of one or more non anionic synthetic detergent active materials. 4. A composition according to Claim 1, characterised in that the at least one synthetic detergent active material includes an anionic detergent active material and a non ionic detergent active material in a relative weight ratio of at least 2 1. 5. A composition according to Claim 1, characterised in that it further contains a stabiliser for the bleach system. 6. A composition according to Claim 1, characterised in that it contains from about 10 to about 25 by weight of a mixture of anionic detergent active material together with synthetic nonionic detergent active material, the weight ratio of said anionic material to said nonionic material being between about 3 1 and abour 10 1, the nionic material being a mixture of a synthetic anionic detergent active material and soap from about 15 to about 22 by weight sodium tripolyphosphate from about 12 to about 30 crystalline alumino silicate detergency builder material from about 5.5 to about 27 by weight sodium perborate from about 0.58 to about 108 by weight tetraacetyl ethylene diamine, the weight ratio of the sodium perborate to the tetraacetyl ethylene diamine being between about 3.5 1 and about 10 1 the balance of the composition, if any , being water, and optionally conventional detergent composition ingredients. 7. A particulate alkaline detergent composition substantially as hereinbefore described.

## Description
DETERGENT COMPOSITIONS This invention relates to detergent compositions which are particularly, but not essentially, adapted for fabric washing, and more particularly to phosphate built detergent compositions including a bleach system. It is known to incorporate peracid bleaches such as sodium perborate, together with peracid bleach precursors or peroxy bleach activator in detergent compositions. Such detergent compositions conventionally include, in addition to a detergent active material, a phosphate detergency builder such as sodium tripolyphosphate. In some circumstances, it is thought that the use of phosphates in detergent compositions can lead to environmental problems in waste waters. There is therefore a desire to reduce the level of phosphorus in detergent compositions. Water insoluble alumino silicate ion exchange materialshave been suggested as alternative builders to phosphates. See for example GB 1 429 143 Procter BR Gamble Co. However, it has been found that in alumino silicate built compositions the performance of this bleach system is significantly reduced. It has also been found that, where a detergent composition is based on aluminosilicate as the only builder, or on sodium tripolyphosphate as the only builder, the bleach performance of the composition is reduced as the final water hardness is increased. Thus, for a fixed product dosage where the level of builder material in the product is intentionally reduced, possibly as a cost saving exercise, or where the product is used at a dosage which is lower than that recommended, the bleach performance of the product is reduced. We have now surprisingly found however, that the bleach performance can be substantially maintained and that the reduction in bleach performance with increasing water hardness can be substantially overcome if only a specific part of the tripolyphosphate is replaced by the alumino silicate and if the proxy bleach and the activator therefor are present in specific relative proportions. Thus, according to the invention there is provided a particulate alkaline detergent composition comprising from about 5 to about 40 by weight of at least one synthetic detergent active material from about 12.5 to about 25 by weight of an alkali metal tripolyphosphate calculated on an anhydrous basis from about 7.0 to about 36 by weight of a water insoluble aluminosilicate detergency builder material calculated on an anhydrous basis from about 5 to about 30 by weight of a peroxy bleach and up to about 15 by weight of an activator for said peroxy bleach, the weight ratio of said peroxy bleach to said activator being between about 2 1 and about 15 1. It is particularly beneficial if the percentage quantity of alkali metal tripolyphosphate T and the percentage quantity of the aluminosilicate material A are related to each. other in such a manner that the sum T 0.5 A lies between about 25 and about 37, preferably between about 28 and about 34. The detergent compositions of the invention necessarily include from about 5 to about 40 , preferably about 10 to about 25 by weight of a synthetic anionic, nonionic, amphoteric or zwitterionic detergent compound or mixture thereof. Many suitable detergent active compounds are commercially available and are fully described in the literature, for example in Surface Active Agents andDetergents , Volumes I and II, by Schwartz, Perry andBerch. Generally, fabric washing detergent compositions also contain fluorescent agents for improving the brightening activity of the compositions towards fabrics washed therewith. The fluorescent agents commonly used are derivatives of 4,4 di sym triazinylamino stilbene2,2 disulphonic acid or salts thereof. Other fluorescent agents that have also been used for example are derivatives of diphenyldistryryl compounds, such as 4,4 di 3sulphostyryl diphenyl derivatives of 4,4 di triazolyl stilbene 2,2 disulphonic acid and derivatives of diphenyl 2 pyrazoline. Such fluorescent agents, however, when incorporated in bleaching. detergent compositions are liable to decompose with consequent loss of fluorescent activity, possibly owing to interaction with the bleaching system therein. We have now surprisingly found that the fluorescer stability can be substantially maintained if a major part of the detergent active material is constituted by an anionic material. Thus, it is preferred that the detergent active material selected from anionic synthetic detergent active materials and mixtures thereof with a lesser amount of one or more non anionic synthetic detergent active materials. The synthetic anionic detergent compounds are usually water soluble alkali metal salts of organic sulphates and sulphonates having alkyl radicals containing from about 8 to about 22 carbon atoms, the term alkyl being used to include the alkyl portion of higher aryl radicals.Examples of suitable synthetic anionic detergent compounds are sodium and potassium alkyl sulphates, especially those obtained by sulphating higher C8 C18 alcohols produced for example from tallow or coconut oil sodium and potassium alkyl Cg C20 benzene sulphonates, particularly sodium linear secondary alkyl C10 Cl5 benzene sulphonates sodium alkyl glyceryl ether sulphates, especially those ethers of the higher alcohols derived from tallow or coconut oil and synthetic alcohols derived from petroleum sodium coconut oil fatty acid monoglyceride sulphates and sulphonates sodium and potassium salts of sulphuric acid esters of higher. Cg Cl8 fatty alcohol alkylene oxide, particularly ethylene oxide, reaction products the reaction products of fatty acids such as coconut fatty acids esterified with isethionic acid and neutralised with sodium hydroxide sodium and potassium salts of fatty acid amides of methyl taurine alkane monosulphonates such as those derived by reacting alphaolefins C8 C20 with sodium bisulphite and those derived by reacting paraffins with SO2 and C12 and then hydrolysing with a base to produce a random sulphonate and olefin sulphonates, which term is used to describe the material made by reacting olefins, particularly C10 C20 alpha olefins, with SO3 and then neutralising and hydrolysing the reaction product. The preferred anionic detergent compounds are sodium C11 C15 alkyl benzene sulphonates and sodium C16 Cl8 alkyl sulphates. Examples of suitable non ionic detergent compounds which may be used, preferably together with the anionic detergent compounds include in particular the reaction products of alkylene oxides, usually ethylene oxide, with alkyl C6 C22 phenols, generally 5 to 25 EO, ie 5 to 25 units of ethylene oxides per molecule the condensation products of aliphatic C8 C18 primary or secondary linear or branched alcohols with ethylene oxide, generally 6 to 30 EO, and products made by condensation of ethylene oxide with the reaction products of propylene oxide and ethylenediamine. Other so called nonionic detergent compounds include long chain tertiary amine oxides, long chain tertiary phosphine oxides and dialkyl sulphoxides. Mixtures of the anionic detergent compounds with, for example, nonionic compounds may be used in the detergent compositions, particularly to provide controlled low sudsing properties. This is beneficial for compositions intended for use in suds intolerant automatic washing machines. The presence of some nonionic detergent compounds. in the compositions may also help to improve the solubility characteristics of the detergent powder. A preferred anionic to nonionic ratio is at least about 2 1, most preferably from about 3 1 to about 10 1. Amounts of.amphoteric or zwitterionic detergent compounds can also be used in the compositions of the invention but this is not normally desired due to their relatively high cost. If any amphoteric or zwitterionic detergent compounds are used it is generally in small amounts in compositions based on the much more commonly used synthetic anionic and nonionic detergent compounds. Some soaps may also be used in the compositions of the invention, but not as the sole detergent compounds. They are particularly useful at low levels in binary soap anionic or ternary mixtures together with nonionic or mixed synthetic anionic and nonionic detergent compounds, which have low sudsing properties. The soaps which are used are preferably the sodium, or less desirably potassium, salts of C10 C24 fatty acids. It is particularly preferred that the soaps should be based mainly on the longer chain fatty acids within this range, that is with at least half of the soap having a carbon chain length of 16 or over. This is most conveniently accomplished by using soaps from natural sources such as tallow, palm oil or rapeseed oil, which can be hardened if desired, with lesser amounts of other shorter chain soaps, prepared from nut oils such as coconut oil or palm kernel oil.The amount of such soaps can be varied between about 0.5 and about 25 by weight, with lower amounts of about 0.5 to about 5 being generally sufficient for lather control. Amounts of soap between about 2 and about 20 , especially between about 5 and about 15 , are preferably used to give a beneficial effect on detergency. This is particularly valuable in compositions used in hard water when the soap acts as a supplementary builder. In addition, we have found that the addition of soap helps to decrease the tendency of the compositions to form inorganic deposits in the wash, for which purpose it is preferred to use about 2 to about 15 , especially about 2.5 to about 10 by weight of soap in the composition.When soap is present, it is preferred that the total level of detergent actives, including the soap, lies between about 5 and about 40 by weight, most preferably between about 10 and about 25 by weight. Further, when both the soap and a nonionic detergent active material are present together with a synthetic anionic detergent active material, it is preferred that the weight ratio of the synthetic anionic material and soap to the nonionic material is at least about 2 1, most preferably about 3 1 to about 10 1. The alkali tripolyphosphate is preferably sodium tripolyphosphate, advantageously present in an amount of from more than about 15 to about 22 by weight. While it is desirable that the only phosphate material present is the tripolyphosphate, up to about 5 by weight of the composition of other phosphate materials may also be added, such as orthophosphate or pyrophosphate. Low levels of these other phosphate materials , even over 5 by weight of the composition, may in any case be present in compositions which have been prepared by spray drying, as a consequence of the hydrolysis of sodium tripolypohosphate. Thus, for example, a spray dried product nominally containing 25 sodium tripolyphosphate STP may in fact contain up to about 10 by weight of other phosphates derived from the breakdown of the tripolyphosphate.The resulting sodium orthophosphate and sodium pyrophosphate both contribute to fabric ashing and should be kept to a minimum. Although careful control of processing conditions can reduce this STP breakdown, it is preferred to prevent all breakdown in the spray drying tower by post dosing all theSTP. There may still be some ortho and pyrophosphate in the final powder because the raw material STP may contain about 5 of them and some further breakdown may occur during storage. The aluminosilicate builder material is preferably crystalline or amorphous material having the general formula Naz AlO2 z SiO2 y x H2O wherein Z and Y are integers of at least 6, the molar ratio of Z to Y is in the range from 1.0 to 0.5, and x is an integer from 15 to 264 such that the moisture content is from 10 to 28 by weight. The preferred range of aluminosilicate is from about 12 to about 30 on an anhydrous basis. The alumino silicate preferably has a particle size of from 0.1 to 100 microns, ideally between 0.1 and 10 microns and a calcium ion exchange capacity of at least 200 mg.calcium carbon ate g. In a preferred embodiment, the water insoluble aluminosilicate ion exchange material has the formula Nal2 A1 2Si 2 12XH2 wherein x is an integer of from 20 to 30, preferably about 27.This material is available commercially as Zeolite A. The bleach system used essentially comprises a peroxy bleach compound which is an inorganic persalt, and an activator therefor. The activator makes the bleaching more effective at lower temperatures, ie in the range from ambient temperature to about 600C, so that such bleach systems are commonly known as low temperature bleach systems and are well known in the art. The inorganic persalt such as sodium perborate, both the monohydrate and the tetrahydrate, acts to release active oxygen in solution, and the activator therefor is usually an organic compound having one or more reactive acyl residues, which cause the formation of peracids, the latter providing for a more effective bleaching action at lower temperatures than the peroxybleach compound. The ratio by weight of the peroxy bleach compound to the activator is about 15 1 to about 2 1, preferably about 10 1 to about 3.5 1.Whilst the amount of the bleach system, i.e. peroxy bleach compound and activator may be varied between about 5 and about 35 by weight of the detergent compositions, it is preferred to use about 6 to about 30 of the ingredients forming the bleach system. Thus, the preferred level of the peroxy bleach compound in the composition is between about 5.5 and about 27 by weight, while the preferred level of the activator is between about 0.5 and about 10 , most preferably between about 0.5 and about 3.2 by weight. Typical examples of suitable peroxybleach compounds are alkalimetal perborates, both tetrahydrates and monohydrates, alkali metal percarbonates, persilicates and perphosphates, of which sodium perborate is preferred. The peroxybleach compound is normally added in separately to the detergent base powder, and it is desirable to avoid segregation by having the particles of both of generally the same order. Activators for peroxybleach compounds have been amply described in the literature, including British patents 336,988, 855,735, 907,356, 907,358, 970,950, 1,003,310 and 1,246,339, US patents 3,332,882 and 4,128,494, Canadian patent 844,481 and South African patent 68 6,344. Specific suitable activators include a N diacylated and N,N polyacylated amines, such as N,N,N ,N tetraacetyl methylene diamine and N,N,N ,N tetraacetyl ethylene diamine, N,N diacetylaniline, N,N diacetyl p toluidine 1,3 diacylated hydantoins such as, for example, 1,3 diacetyl 5,5 dimethyl hydantoin and 1,3 dipropionyl hydantoin g acetoxy NN,N polyacylmalonamide, for exampleX acetoxy N,N diacetylmalonamide b N alkyl N sulphonyl carbonamides, for example the compounds N methyl N mesyl acetamide, N methyl N mesyl benzamide, N methyl N mesyl p nitrobenzamide, and N methyl N mesyl p methoxybenzamide c N acylated cyclic hydrazides, acylated triazones or urazoles, for example monoacetylmaleic acid hydrazide d O,N,N trisubstituted hydroxylamines, such as O benzoyl N,N succinyl hydroxylamine, O acetyl N,N succinyl hydroxylamine, O p methoxybenzoyl N ,N succinyl hydroxylamine, O p nitrobenzoyl N,N succinyl hydroxylamine and O,N,N triacetyl hydroxylamine e N,N diacyl sulphurylamides, for example N,N dimethyl N,N diacetyl sulphurylamide and N,N diethyl N,N dipropionyl sulphurylamide f Triacylcyanurates, for example triacetyl cyanurate and tribenzoyl cyanurate g Carboxylic acid anhydrides, such as benzoic anhydride, m chloro benzoic anhydride, phthalic anydride, 4 chloro phthalic anhydride h Sugar esters, for example glycose pentaacetate i 1,3 diacyl 4,5 diacyloxy imidazolidine, for example 1, 3 diformyl 4 , 5 diacetoxy imidazolidine, 1, 3 diacetyl 4 , 5 diacetoxy imidazolidine, 1, 3 diacetyl 4 , 5 dipropionyloxy imidazoline j Tetraacetylglycoluril and tetrapropionylglycoluril k Diacylated 2,5 diketopiperazine, such as 1,4 diacetyl 2,5 diketopiperazine, 1,4 dipropionyl 2,5 diketopiperazine and 1,4 dipropionyl 3,6 dimetyl 2,5 diketopiperazine 1 Acylation products of propylenediurea or 2,2 dimethyl propylenediurea 2,4,6,8 tetraaza bicyclo 3,3,1 nonane 3,7 dione or its 9,9 dimethyl derivative , especially the tetraacetyl or the tetrapropionyl propylenediurea or their dimethyl derivatives m Carbonic acid esters, for example the sodium salts of p ethoxycarbonyloxy benzoic acid and p propoxy carbonyloxy benzenesulphonic acid. n Acyloxy N,NÚ polyacyl malonamides, such as alpha acetoxy N,NÚ diacetyl malonamide. The N diacylated and N,N polyacylatedamines mentioned under a are of special interest, particularly N,N,N ,N tetra acetyl ethylenediamine TAED . It is preferred to use the activator in granular form, preferably wherein the activator is finely divided as described in our UK patent application No. 8021979Specifically, it is preferred to have an activator of an average particle size of less than 150 micrometers, which gives significant improvement in bleach efficiency. The sedimentation losses, when using an activator with an average particle size of less than 150 um, are substantially decreased.Even better bleach performance is obtained if the average particle size of the activator is less than 100 um. However, too small a particle size gives increased decomposition, dust formation and handling problems, and although particle sizes below 100 um can provide for an improved bleaching efficiency, it is desirable that the activator should not have more than 20 by weight of particles with a size of less than 50 um. On the other hand, the activator may have a certain amount of particles of a size greater than 150 um, but it should not contain more than 5 by weight of particles greater than 300,us, and not more than 20 by weight of particles greater than 200,us, preferably greater than 150 um. It is to be understood that these particle sizes refer to the activator present in the granules, and not to the granules themselves. The latter have a particle size, the major part of it ranging from 100 to 2000 um, preferably 250 to 1000 um. Upto 5 by weight of granules with a particle size of greater than 1700 um and up to 10 by weight of granules less than 250 um is tolerable.The granules incorporating the activator, preferably in this finely divided form, may be obtained by granulating a suitable carrier material, such as sodium tripolyphosphate and or potassium tripolyphospate with activator particles of the required size. Other granulation methods, e.g. using organic and or inorganic granulation aids, can also be usefully applied. The granules can be subsequently dried, if required. Basically, any granulation process is applicable, as long as the granule contains the activator, and as long as the other materials present in the granule do not negatively affect the activator. It is particularly preferred to include in the detergent compositions a stabiliser for the bleach system for example ethylene diamine tetramethylene phosphonate and diethylene triamine pentamethylene phosphonate. These activators can be used in acid or salts form, especially in calcium, magnesium, zinc or aluminium salt form, as described in our UK patent application 7,912,141. The stabiliser may be present at a level of up to about 1 by weight, preferably between about 0.1 and about 0.5 by weight. Apart from the components already mentioned, the detergent compositions of the invention can contain any of the conventional additives in the amounts in which such materials are normally employed in fabric washing detergent compositions. Examples of these additives include lather boosters such as alkanolamides, particularly the monoethanolamides derived from palm kernel fatty acids and coconut fatty acids, lather depressants such as alkyl phosphates and silicates, anti redeposition agents such as sodium carboxymethylcellulose and alkyl or substituted alkyl cellulose ethers other stabilisers such as ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid, fabric softening agents, inorganic salts such as sodium sulphate and sodium carbonate, and, usually present in very minor amounts, fluorescent agents, perfumes, enzymes such as proteases and amylases, germicides and colourants. In particular, compositions according to the invention may include the salt of an alkyl phosphoric acid as suds suppressant and a wax as hydrophobic material as disclosed in DOS 2 701 664. The fluorescent agents which can be used in the bleaching detergent compositions of the invention are well known and many such fluorescent agents are available commercially. Specific fluorescent agents which may be mentioned by way of example are a 4,4 di 2 anilino 4 morpholinotriazin 6 ylamino stilbene 2,2 disulphonic acid and its salts, b 4,4 di 2 anilino 4 N methylethanolaminotriazin 6 ylamino stilbene 2,2 disulphonic acid and its salts, c 4,4 di 2 anilino 4 diethanolaminotriazin 6 ylamino stilbene 2,2 disulphonic acid and its salts, d 4,4 di 2 anilino 4 dimethylaminotriazin 6 ylamino stilbene 2,2 disulphonic acid and its salts, e 4,4 di 2 anilino 4 diethylaminotriazin 6 ylamino stilbene 2,21 disulphohic acid and its salts, f 4,4 di 2 anilino 4 monoethanolaminotriazin 6 ylamino stilbene 2,2 disulphonic acid and its salts, g 4,4 di 2 anilino 4 1 methyl 2 hydroxy ethyl aminotriazin 6 ylamino stilbene 2 , 2 disulphonic acid and its salts, h 4,4 di 2 methylamino 4 p chloroanilinotriazin 6 ylamino stilbene 2,2 disulphonic acid and its salts, i 4,4 di 2 dietholamine 4 sulphanilinotriazin 6 ylamino stilbene 2,2 disulphonic acid and its salts, j 4,4 di 3 sulphostyryl diphenyl and its salts, k 4,4 di 4 phenyl 1,2,3 triazol 2 yl stilbene 2,2 disulphonic acid and its salts, 1 1 p sulphonamidophenyl 3 p chlorophenyl 2 pyrazol ine. The salt of the acid defined in a. above, is referred to below as fluorescer X . Usually these fluorescent agents are supplied and used in detergent compositions in the form of their alkali metal salts, for example, the sodium salts. In addition to these fluorescent agents, the detergent composition of the invention may contain other types of fluorescent agents as desired. The total amount of the fluorescent agent or agents used in a detergent composition is generally from 0.02 2 by weight. It is desirable to include one 6r more antideposition agents in the detergent compositions of the invention, to decrease a tendency to form inorganic deposits on washed fabrics. The amount of any such antideposition agent is normally from about 0.1 to about 5 by weight, preferably from about 0.2 to about 2.5 by weight of the composition.The preferred antideposition agents are anionic polyelectrolytes, especially polymeric aliphatic carboxylates, or organic phosphonates. It may be desirable to include in the compositions an amount of an alkali metal silicate, particularly sodium ortho , meta or preferably neutral or alkaline silicate.The presence of such alkali metal silicates at levels of at least about 1 , and preferably from about 5 to about 15 by weight of the compositions, is advantageous in decreasing the corrosion of metal parts in washing machines, besides giving processing benefits and generally improved powder properties. The more highly alkaline ortho and meta silicat.es would normally only be used at lower amounts within this range, in admixture with the neutral or alkaline silicates. The compositions of the invention are required to be alkaline, but not too strongly alkaline as this could result in fabric damage and also be hazardous for domestic usage. In practice the compositions should give a pH of from about 8.5 to about 11 in use in aqueous wash solution.It is preferred in particular for domestic products to have a pH of from about 9.0 to about 10.5 as lower pHs tend to be less effective for optimum detergency building, and more highly alkaline products can be hazardous if misused. The pH is measured at the lowest normal usage concentration of 0.1 w v of the product in water of 12 H ca , French permanent hardness, calcium only at 500C so that a satisfactory degree of alkalinity can be assured in use at all normal product concentrations. The detergent compositions of the invention should be in free flowing particulate, eg powdered or granular form, and can be produced by any of the technique commonly employed in the manufacture of such washing compositons, but preferably by slurry making and spray drying processes to form a detergent base powder to which the ingredients of the bleach system, and optionally also the alkali metal tripolyphosphate are added. It is preferred that the process used to form the compositions should result in a product having a moisture content of not more than about 12 , more preferably from about 4 to about 10 by weight as the lower moisture levels have been found to be beneficial for stability of the bleach systems employed. The invention will now be illustrated by the following non limiting examples. EXAMPLE 1 The following base powders were prepared by spray drying a slurry containing the specified constituents ComparativeIngredient Example 1 Example A parts by weight Anionic detergent active 6.5 6.5Nonionic detergent active 3.0 3.0Soap 5.0 5.0STP 25.0 35.0Zeolite anhydrous 13.0Sodium silicate 2.0 6.0Trimagnesium dequest 0.12Fluorescer X 0.2 0.2Sodium sulphate, water and minor ingredients 21.39 20.27 76.09 76.09 Calculated as the equivalent amount of the acid form Dequest 2041. To these base powders were post dosed the following ingredients Ingredient Example 1 Comparative Example A parts by weight TAED 2.0 2.0 Sodium perborate 15.54 15.54 Dequest 2041 0.3 0.2 Sodium sulphate 6.07 6.17 23.91 23.91 These powders were then tested using the following procedure. A Miele W484 automatic washing machine was used, set on its 600C main wash only programme. The load used consisted of 4 kg of unsoiled cotton and 4 standard soiled bleach sensitive tea stained test pieces. 100g of the test powder was introduced using the machine s dispenser. The machines intake of water hardness 150FH was 20 litres. Each powder was tested three times. During the wash, samples of the wash liquor were taken when the wash liquor first reached 400C. The content of peracetic acid and active oxygen was determined in each sample using conventional analytical techniques. At the end of each wash the bleaching performance on the standard test pieces was determined by measuring the reflectance at 460 nm on a Zeiss Elrepho photometer using a 420 nm W interference filter R 460 . The mean relectance of the samples before washing was 32.6 and the bleaching effect is quoted as a change in fabric reflectance, R460 . The results obtained were as follows Example 1 Example APeracetic acid yield E theoretical 72 71Active oxygen yield theoretical 85 84 di R460 17.6 17.8 This Example demonstrates that the performance of theSTP zeolite product is surprising similar to the performance of the STP only product Comparative ExampleA , despite the lower total phosphorus level. EXAMPLE 2 The experiments of Example 1 were repeated with powders made up according to the following formulations Ingredient Example 2 Comparative Example B parts by weight Anionic detergent active 6.5 6.5Nonionic detergent active 3.0 3.0Soap 5.0 5.0STP 18.0Zeolite 21.0 40.0Sodium silicate 6.0 6.0Fluorescer X 0.2 0.2Sodium sulphate, water and minor ingredients 14.8 13.8 74.5 74.5Post dosed ingredients TAED 2.0 2.0 calcium dequest 0.3 0.3Sodium perborate 20.0 20.0 22.3 22.3 Calculated as the equivalent amount of the acid form Dequest 2041. The procedure of Example 1 was modified in that the experiment was carried out in a Tergotometer with a heat up from 160C to 600C in 34 minutes. A product dosage of 5 g l was used. The water hardness was 400 FH. The results obtained were as follows Example 2 Comparative Example B A R460 9.8 6.0 This example demonstrates that the bleaching performance of the STP ze olite product is substantially better than the zeolite only product ComparativeExample B . EXAMPLE 3 To the base powders given in Example 2 and in comparative Example B there were post dosed the following ingredients Ingredient Example 3 Comparative Example CBase powder Ex.2 Ex.BTAED 3.0 3.0Calcium dequestSodium perborate 6.0 6.0 Using the same procedure as in Example 2, modified only in that the water hardness was 350 FH, the results obtained were as follows Example 3 Comparative Example C AR 460 4.7 2.2 EXAMPLE 4 To the base powders given in Example 2 and inComparative Example B, there were post dosed the following ingredients Ingredient Example 4 Comparative Example DBase powder Ex.2. Ex.BTAED 2.0 2.0Calcium dequestSodium perborate 15.0 15.0 Using the same procedure as in Example 3, the following results were obtained Example 4 Comparative Example D A R460 8.2 6.6 EXAMPLES 5 AND 6 Detergent powders were prepared according to the following approximate formulations and were found to give excellent results when compared with similar formulations in which sodium tripolyphosphate STP was the only builder material. Example No 5 6Ingredients by weigh.t Anionic detergent active 6 6Nonionic detergent active 4 4STP 18 18Zeolite 17 22Sodium perborate 20 20TAED 2.3 2.3Suds suppressant material 1.0 1.0Sodium polyacrylate 0.9Water, fluorescer and other balance convention ingredients The suds suppressant material used was a 1 3 mixture of a C16 alkyl phosphoric acid ester and petroleum jelly with a drop melting point of 54 C. EXAMPLE 7 The experiments of Example 1 were repeated with powders made up according to the following formulations parts by weight Ingredient Example Comparative Examples 7 E FAnionic.detergent active 6.5 6.5 6.5Nonionic detergent active 3.0 3.0 3.0Soap 5.0 5.0 5.0STP post dosed 18.0 32.0 Zeolite 21.0 30.0Sodium silicate 6.0 6.0 6.0Fluorescer X 0.2 0.2 0.2TAED post 2.0 2.0 2.0Calcium Dequest dosed 0.3 0.3 0.3Sodium perborate 15.0 15.0 15.0Sodium sulphate, water and minor ingredients balance to 100 Calculated as the equivalent amount of the acid form Dequest 2041. The procedure of Example 1 was modified in that the experiment was carried out in a Tergotometer with a heat up from 160C to 55 OC in 30 minutes. With a further 30 minutes at 550C a product dosage of 5 g l was used. Water hardnesses of 350FH and 600FH were used. The results obtained were as follows R460 Example Comparative Example 7 E F 35 FH 16.5 18.2 18.8 600FH 18.4 17.6 15.8 This Example demonstrates that the bleaching performance of the composition according to the invention Example 7 is improved with increased water hardness, while the bleaching performance of the compositions based on STP only and zeolite only Comparative Examples E and F is reduced with increased water hardness. EXAMPLE 8 The experiments of Example 1 were repeated with powders made up according to the following formulations parts by weight Ingredient Example Comparative Example 8 GAnionic detergent active 6.5 6.5Nonionic detergent active 3.0 3.0Soap 5.0 5.0STP post dosed 18.0 18.0Zeolite 21.0 21.0Sodium silicate 6.0 6.0Fluorescer X 0.2 0.2TAED post 2.0Sodium perborate dosed 15.0 15.0Sodium sulphate, water and minor ingredients balance to 100 The procedure of Example l was modified in that the experiment was carried out in a Tergotometer with a heat up from 160C to 550C in 60 minutes. A product dosage of 5 g l was used. Water harnesses of 350FH and 600FH were used. The results obtained were as follows R460 Example Comparative Example 8 G 350F 10.8 7.7 600F 16.0 7.0 This Example demonstrates that the bleaching performance of the composition according to the invention Example 8 is improved with increased water hardness, while the bleaching performance of the composition containing perborate without TAED is reduced with reduced water hardness. EXAMPLE 9 The following formulation represents a further exemplary detergent composition according to the invention.Ingredient by weightAnionic detergent active 11.0Nonionic detergent active 5.0Soap 5.0STP post dosed 18.0Zeolite 17.0Sodium perborate 12.0TAED 2.0Calcium dequest calculated as the equivalent Dequest 2041 0.3Fluorescer X 0.2Sodium silicate 6.0Sodium polyacrylate 0.9Water 10.0Sodium sulphate and other conventional ingredients balance In the above examples, the anionic detergent active used was the sodium salt of alkyl approx. C12 benzene sulphonate and the nonionic used was a mixture of Dobanol 45 18 and Lutensol 12EO. The soap used was a mixture of hardened tallow soap and hardened rapeseed soap. The zeolite used was zeolite A ex Degussa .