# Method and apparatus for handling successive sheets to be stacked on a pile.

## Abstract
A piling assembly for a sheet stacker utilises air pressure to corrugate a paper sheet for stiffness and to transport the sheet from a conveyor 20 onto a pile 31 formed against a backstop 32. The assembly comprises a plurality of telescop ing rods 53 which overlie the sheet pile and issue air jets in a downward and lateral direction on to the upper surface of a sheet 10b. The mechanism further includes a lift means 58 situated beneath the sheet and directing air against the undersurface of the sheet, so that the sheet can float over the pile as the sheet is jogged against the backstop 32 in the stacker. The backstop 32 is made movable and the telescop ing rods 53 are adjustable to accommodate various lengths of sheet in the stacker.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method of handling sheets to be stacked in a pile against a backstop, comprising conveying sheets seriatim upstream of said pile in a direction towards said backstop, issuing pressurised air in a generally downward and lateral direction in the direction of conveyance of said sheets from means mounted in overlying relationship to said pile, directing lift air against the undersurface of each successive sheet at a point upstream of said pile as the sheet is being conveyed toward said pile, and transporting each successive sheet over said pile into jogging relationship with said backstop and depositing the sheet on to said pile with the pressurised air and lift air. 2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising providing said pressurised air in the form of a plurality of discrete jets arranged in a generally linear and parallel fashion extending in a direction perpendicular to said backstop. 3. The method according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein said lift air is ionised. 4. The method according to any of claims 1 to 3, wherein said pressurised air is first issued substantially over aisd point where said lift air is directed and continue. sto issue over said pile to a point adjacent said backstop. 5. A method of producing corrugations along a sheet to be stacked in a pile against a backstop comprising transporting sheets seriatim over said pile and into jogging relationship with said backstop and issuing pressurised air in the form of a plurality of discrete jets arranged in a generally linear and parallel fashion extending in a direction perpendicular to said backstop, such that said jets are directed from means mounted in overlying relationship to said pile. 6. A method of using a stacker for arranging sheets in a pile, wherein said stacker includes platform means to support said pile, a backstop against which said pile is formed, said backstop being mounted on means such that said backstop is laterally movable in said stacker, and a piling assembly, said piling assembly comprising means for transporting successive sheets over said pile into jogging relationship with said backstop and depositing each said sheet on to said pile, said piling assembly means including a length adjustable, telescoping rod means mounted in overlying relationship to said pile, said method comprising issuing pressurised air against the upper surface of each successive sheet from said telescoping rod means to assist the transport and deposit of each successive sheet. 7. The method of use according to claim 6, further comprising moving said backstop and adjusting said telescoping rod means to accommodate various lengths of sheet in said stacker such that a constant amount of pressurised air issues from said telescoping rod means against each sheet regardless of the sheet s length. 8. An apparatus Lor stacking sheets, said apparatus comprising a stacker for arranging sheets in a pile, said stacker including a backstop against which said pile is formed, platform means to support said pile, and a piling assembly for transporting successive sheets over said pile into jogging relationship with said backstop and depositing each sheet on to said pile, said piling assembly comprising transporter means mounted in overlying relationship to said pile, s d transporter means issuing pressurised air in a generally downward and lateral direction towards said backstop, and lift means having discharge duct means for directing lift air against the undersurface of each successive sheet at a point upstream of said pile, and conveying means for advancing sheets seriatim upstream of said pile in a direction towards said backstop such that each sheet is contacted by said pressurised air and said lift air. 9. The apparatus according to claim 8, wherein said lift air is ionised. 10. The apparatus according to claim 8 or claim 9, wherein said transporter means comprise at least one length adjustable telescoping rod means, said rod being formed of a plurality of progressively thinner duct stages containing said pressurised air and including transition walls leading to each said duct stage, each said transition wall including a nozzle for issuing said pressurised air in the form of a jet in said generally downward and lateral direction. 11. The apparatus according to claim 10, including a manifold mounting a transition wall for the thickest, first stage of said at least one telescoping rod means, so that said first stage transition wall substantially overlies said discharge duct means, such that a discrete area of each successive sheet is substantially concurrently contacted by pressurised air and said lift air. 12. The apparatus according to claim 10 or claim 11, wherein the thinnest final stage of said at least one telescoping rod extends to adjacent said backstop and wherein means are provided for making said backstop laterally movable in the direction of length adjustability of said at least one telescoping rod. 13. A stacking apparatus for arranging sheets in a pile against a backstop, said apparatus including piling means for transporting successive sheets over said pile into jogging relationship with said backstop and depositing each said sheet on to said pile, said piling means including length adjustable telescoping rod means mounted in overlying relationship to said pile and issuing pressurised air against the upper surface of each successive sheet to assist the transport and deposit of the sheet. 14. The apparatus according to claim 13, wherein said telescoping rod means include means issuing said pressurised air in the form of a linear array of discrete jets in a generally downward and lateral direction towards said backstop. 15. The apparatus according to claim 13 or claim 14, wherein said telescoping rod means comprises at least one rod extending in a substantially perpendicular relationship to said backstop and being formed of a plurality of progressively thinner duct stages containing said pressurised air such that the thinnest, final stage is situated adjacent said backstop.

## Description
Method and apparatus for handling successive sheets to be stacked in a pile . The invention relates to a method and apparatus for handling successive sheets to be stacked in a pile. A stacker station is utilised in a conventional paper making production line to arrange paper sheets into reams. Typically, paper sheets, or clips, issue from a sheeting machine which shears the sheets from a continuous paper web. The sheets are advanced in seriatim fashion along a conveyor system to the stacker, where the sheets are piled. Good piling requires that the sheets be jogged against a reference. The stacker is provided with a backstop to act as the jogging reference. The problem presented by piling is enabling each successive sheet delivered by the conveyor system to be pushed from the upstream end of the pile over the top of the pile all the way to the backstop without engaging the sheet immediately below it. A sheet which buckles or curls on its way to the backstop will not jog properly and can in some cases be driven over the backstop. In such instances, the ream is ruined and stacker operation may have to be reset, thereby causing loss in production time. One present method attempting to solve this problem is to employ corrugating rolls for stiffening the successive sheets. The rolls are mounted at the upstream end of the stacker to give U shaped corrugations to each sheet passing into the stacker. The U shaped corrugations give stiffness to the sheet allowing it to be pushed without buckling. However, the height of the corrugations must be accommodated by a difference in elevatiqn between the sheet being delivered and the top of the pile. This difference usually represents a large drop off, which enhances roll over or buckling as the sheet is applied to the pile. Another common practice for piling sheets in a stacker has involved air flotation. A typical air flotation device directs air against the undersurface of a sheet as it begins to pass over the pile such that it floats over the pile to jog with the backstop. By the time the sheet reaches the backstop the air pressure beneath the sheet must have dissipated so that the sheet drops on to the pile. However, air directed in this fashion frequently fails to reach the leading edge of the sheet, causing the sheet to buckle before it reaches the backstop. Also, the air has a tendency to hold the tail of the sheet up, making piling and jogging against a reference difficult. An important object of the present invention is to provide a new and improved method of and means for handling paper sheets to pile in a stacker which will avoid the disadvantages, inefficiencies, shortcomings, and problems inherent in prior arrangements. A further object of the present invention is to corrugate each sheet being propelled into the stacker for stiffness while, at the same time, permitting a short drop off into the pile. Another object of the invention is to maintain each sheet level over the pile to a much more reliable degree than heretofore possible. Still another object of the invention is to transport each sheet to the backstop in a high speed manner with a minimum of machine elements. A still further object of the invention is to provide structure which accommodates different size sheets in the stacker. According to the invention there is provided a method of handling sheets to be stacked in a pile against a backstop, comprising conveying sheets seriatim upstream of said pile in a direction towards said backstop, issuing pressurised air in a generally downward and lateral direction in the direction of conveyance of said sheets from means mounted in overlying relationship to said pile, directing lift air against the undersurface of each successive sheet at a point upstream of said pile as the sheet is being conveyed toward said pile, and trans porting each successive sheet over said pile into jogging relationship with said backstop and depositing the sheet on to said pile with the pressurised air and lift air. The invention also provides a method of producing corrugations along a sheet to be stacked in a pile against a backstop comprising transporting sheets seriatim over said pile and into jogging relationship with said backstop and issuing pressurised air in the form of a plurality of discrete jets arranged in a generally linear and parallel fashion extending in a direction perpendicular to said backstop, such that said jets are directed from means mounted in overlying relationship to said pile. The invention further provides a method of using a stacker for arranging sheets in a pile, wherein said stacker includes platform means to support said pile, a backstop against which said pile is formed, said backstop being mounted on means such that said backstop is laterally movable in said stacker, and a piling assembly, said piling assembly comprising means for transporting successive sheets over said pile into jogging relationship with said backstop and depositing each said sheet on to said pile, said piling assembly means including a lengthadjustable, telescoping rod means mounted in overlying relationship to said pile, said method comprising issuing pressurised air against the upper surface of each successive sheet from said telescoping rod means to assist the transport and deposit of each successive sheet. The invention also includes within its scope an apparatus for stacking sheets, said apparatus comprising a stacker for arranging sheets in a pile, said stacker including a backstop against which said pile is formed, platform means to support said pile, and a piling assembly for transporting successive sheets over said pile into jogging relationship with said backstop and depositing each sheet on to said pile, said piling assembly comprising transporter means mounted in overlying relationship to said pile, said transporter means issuing pressurised air in a generally downward and lateral direction towards said backstop, and lift means having discharge duct means for directing lift air against the undersurface of each successive sheet at a point upstream of said pile, and conveying means for advancing sheets seriatim upstream of said pile in a direction towards said backstop such that each sheet is contacted by said pressurised air and said lift air. The invention also provides a stacking apparatus for arranging sheets in a pile against a backstop, said apparatus including piling means for transporting successive sheets over said pile into jogging relationship with said backstop and depositing each said sheet on to said pile, said piling means including length adjustable telescoping rod means mounted in overlying relationship to said pile and issuing pressurised air against the upper surface of each successive sheet to assist the transport and deposit of the sheet. The following is a detailed description of a preferred embodiment of the invention, reference being made to the accompanying drawings in which Figure 1 is a side view of a stacker employing the piling mechanism of the present invention, Figure 2 is a schematic illustration of a front sectional view taken along the line Il Il of Figure 1, Figure 3 is a front sectional view taken along the line Ill Ill of Figure 1, and Figure 4 is a side view of the telescoping rod assembly. The preferred embodiment is directed to the production of paper sheets and their arrangement into small piles or reams. It will be understood, however, that the principles of the present invention would be applicable to the gathering and stacking of other sheet material, such as board or cardboard. Figure 1 shows a sheet stacker system employing the piling mechanism of the present invention. After sheets have been cut from a web of paper, the sheets, such as shown at 10, are fed seriatim to the stacker 30 on a conveyor system 20. The conveyor system 20 includes a delivery conveyor belt 21 just upstream of the stacker 30 and leading to a sheet pile 31 being formed in the stacker 30 against a backstop 32. The delivery conveyor belt 21 is of a type which permits exposure of the sheets 10 from underneath the belt 21. For example, as shown inFigure 3, the delivery belt 21 may consist of a plurality of spaced apart ribbons 21a, b and c. Kick off roller means 40, consisting of an upper roller assembly 41 and a lower roller assembly 43, are located at the downstream end of the conveyor system 20 at a point just upstream of the sheet pile 31. The sheets 10 are successively advanced between the kick off roller assemblies 41, 43 towards the backstop 32, as is shown occurring to sheet 10a in Figure 1, so as to maintain the sheet at the speed and in the direction of travel of the delivery conveyor belt 21 as the sheet is fed into the stacker 30. The lower kick off roller assembly 43 acts as the downstream roller supporting the belt 21. Preferably, the roller assembly 43, as shown in Figure 3, comprises a driven rod 44 having spaced therealong a plurality of raised wheel portions 43a, b and c over which ride respective ribbons 21a, b and c of the delivery belt 21.Between the raised wheel portions there is sufficient space for a flow of air as will be described below in connection with lift means 56. Mounted directly over the roll assembly 43 is the kick off roller assembly 41. The roller assembly 41 is supported on arms 42 pivoted from above so as to be able to float freely over the sheets 10 as they leave the conveyor 20. The kick off roller assembly 41 presses sheet 10a against the kick off roller assembly 43. Preferably, two kick off rollers 41a and 41c comprise the kick off roller assembly 41 and are utilised along the outer side areas of the delivery belt 21. As shown inFigure 3, the kick off rollers 41a and 41c are supported directly over rollers 43a and 43c, respectively. Rollers 41a and 41c are each supported on stationary shafts 46, each having an integral abutment 46a at one end. Each free floating support arm 42 engages the corresponding shaft 46 on the opposite side of the roller 41a, 41c to the abutment 46a.In assembling the kick off roller assembly 41, a roller, for example 41a, will be mounted first upon its shaft 46 in juxtaposition with the integral abutment 46a.The shaft 46 will then be connected to the support arm 42, for example by welding. The stacker 30 includes a platform 60 upon which a sheet pile 31 is formed. The platform 60 is a vertically reciprocable table, which, for example, could be driven by hydraulic lifts. The platform 60 is arranged to travel downward at the same rate as the growth of the pile 31, thereby maintaining a constant delivery height for the top of the pile 31. The downward travel of the platform 60 is preferably related to the conveyor system 20 in such a manner that a change in the delivery speed of the sheets 10 will automatically alter the descent rate of the platform 60. Means for controlling the descent of platform 60 in this manner are known in the art, for example, as described in British Patent Specification No. 1,533,871. The backstop 32 is mounted upon a track 33 in the stacker 30 so as to be laterally slidable towards or away from the kick off roller means 40. The backstop 32 serves as a jogging reference or edge against which the sheet pile 31 is formed. The backstop 32 is made unlovable to allow for the stacker 30 to be used to pile different length sheets. As each sheet 10 leaves the delivery conveyor 21, it is advanced through the kick off roller means 40 and transported by means of a piling assembly 50 over the pile 31 and into jogging abutment with the backstop 32, as shown by sheet lOb in Figure 1. Upon engaging the backstop 32, the sheet lOb is deposited on to the pile 31 as platform 60 descends to accommodate the new sheet lOb. The piling assembly 50 directs air pressure upon sheet 10a as it enters the stacker 30. The assembly 50 consists primarily of two air pressure mechanisms, namely, transporter means 52 and lift means 56. As shown in Figure 1, the lift means 56 serve to blow air upwardly from underneath each successive sheet as it approaches the kick off roller means 40. The lift means 56 comprises a manifold 57 supplied with pressurised air, for example, by means of a blower, not shown. The air is directed from the manifold 57 upwardly into contact with the undersurface of sheet 10s through discharge means 58, creating a generally static pressure lift force.Discharge means 58 consists of one or more ducts extending into the space of spaces between the ribbons of the delivery belt 21 such that the duct or ducts exhaust on to the areas of the sheet exposed from underneath the belt 21. For purposes of the present embodiment, two discharge ducts 58a and 58b are utilised as shown inFigure 3. The ducts 58a, 58b extend in the spaces between the lower kick off wheels 43a, 43b, 43c. Air discharged from the ducts 58a and 58b serves to force sheet 10a upward as it passes through the kick off roller means 40.The air spaces between the raised wheel portions 43a, b, and c of the lower kick off roller assembly 43 permit the pressurised air to remain in contact with the undersurface of the sheet as it passes out from the kick off roller means 40 and over the pile 31. As the sheet travels further out over the pile, and towards the backstop 32, air pressure continues to stay between the sheet and the top of the pile 31, although the pressure is quickly dissipating. The air blown through the lift means 56 may be ionised air, so as to neutralise the likely presence of static electricity. Static electricity in the sheet stacking arrangement described would tend to resist separation of the sheets from the delivery conveyor 21 and could deflect the leading edge of a sheet toward the pile 31 causing buckling or curl. The air blown through the lift means 56 is also preferably directed at a relatively high volume to ensure the presence of air pressure between the sheet and the top of the pile 31 all the way to the backstop 32, as shown by sheet 10b in Figure 1. The high volume of lift air circumvents a problem plaguing prior air flotation arrangements wherein air pressure would be dissipated before the sheet reached its jogging reference, causing the sheet to curl down into the pile. Although air pressure blown through the lift means 56 will be low, it may in some cases be higher than that utilised in prior air flotation arrangements. However, a higher air pressure further ensures the presence of air pressure beneath the sheet being delivered to the pile 31 as it travels to the backstop 32. Unlike prior air flotation arrangements, a higher lift pressure does not obstruct deposit on the pile 31 in the present arrangement since the transporter means 52 provides a counteracting air pressure along the upper surface of the sheet. The transporter means 52 operate in conjunction with the airlift means 56 to direct each successive sheet from the kick off roller means 40 to the backstop 32.The transporter means 52 are supported on the stacker 30 in overlying relationship to the sheet pile 31. The means 52 comprise a plurality of length adjustable, telescoping rods 53, which serve as discharge ducts for pressurised air. The rods 53 extend in parallel with each other in generally perpendicular relationship to the backstop 32 and open up into successive duct stages in the direction of conveyance of the sheets as they are fed from the delivery belt 21 into the stacker 30. The figures illustrate a set of five, three stage telescoping rods 53 for use in the present embodiment.However, it will be apparent that telescoping rods of various stages, different numbers and assorted stage lengths may be employed. In typical telescoping fashion, the stages 53a, 53b, 53c get progresively smaller in diameter in the direction of extension of the rod 53, as shown in Figure 4. Prior to each stage 53a, 53b, 53c of each telescoping rod 53, there is an annular transition wall surface of greater diameter. Each transition wall surface contains a discharge nozzle for issuance of a jet of pressurised air. The discharge nozzle is positioned in that area of the wall surface nearest to the sheet pile 31. The nozzles direct discrete jets of air out on to the sheet pile 31 in a downward and lateral direction in the direction of conveyance of the sheets 10 towards the backstop 32. The telescoping rods 53 are mounted at their thickest, first stage ends on a manifold 54 supplied with a flow of pressurised air, for example from blower means, not shown. The manifold 54 is mounted upstream of the kick off roller assembly 41 and substantially overlying the discharge means 58 for the airlift means 56. The thinnest, final stage ends 53c of the telescoping rods 53 are supported on the backstop 32, by means such as openended slots formed in the backstop 32. The manifold 54 may be made rotatable about its longitudinal axis 59 seeFigure 3 so that the rods 53 may be liSted out of the slots in the backstop 32.This would permit easy access to the telescoping rods 53 for repair purposes and to allow lateral adjustment of the backstop 32 along its track 33 without having to rub against the surfaces of the final stage ends 53c of the telescoping rods 53. The length adjustable telescoping rods 53 are arranged to operate in conjunction with the movable back stop 32 so that sheets of various lengths can be handled in the stacker 30. For shorter sheets, such as sheets of office stationery, the telescoping rods 53 may be collapsed and the backstop 32 moved along the track 33 closer to the kick off roller means 40. On the other hand, for longer sheets, such as legal paper, the telescoping rods 53 can be extended and the backstop 32 moved away from the kick off roller means 40. A constant amount of pressurised air issues from the telescoping rods 53 against the upper surface of each sheet regardless of the length of the sheet since the position of the transition walls can be adjusted to always extend over a sheet.This ensures proper balance of the pressurised air and lift air forces regardless of sheet length. As illustrated in Figures 2 and 4, each rod 53 issues pressurised air in the form of a linear array of discrete jets, beginning at a point substantially over the point where lift air is being issued from the discharge duct means 58 beneath the sheet and continuing on over the pile 31 to a point adjacent the backstop 32. As shown in Figures 2 and 4, nozzles 81 are formed on a planar surface 55a of the manifold 54 directly below the thickest, first stages 53a of the telescoping rods 53.The planar surface 55a acts as a first stage transition wall. Nozzles 81 direct pressurised air over a discrete upper surface of each sheet substantially concurrently with the issuance of ionised air from discharge duct means 58 against the undersurface of the sheet, just below the discrete upper surface. As illustrated in Figures 2 and 4, nozzles 81 issue a series of first jets 505a. A second stage transition wall 55b connects the first telescope stage 53a with the second stage 530 on each rod 53. Each wall 55b contains a nozzle 83 which issues a second jet 505b. A third stage transition wall 55c connects the second telescope stage 53b with the third telescope stage 53g on each rod 53. Each wall 55c contains a nozzle 85 which issues a third jet 505c The downward forces from the air jets 505a, b and c issued from the telescoping rods 53 counteract the force of air directed against the undersurface of the sheet by the airlift means 56.This interaction of vertical forces produces depressions or corrugations along discrete areas of the sheet beneath the rods 53. The corrugations thus effected are generally linear and parallel and extend in a direction perpendicular to the backstop 32, giving stiffness to the sheet. Such corrugations 101 are schematically shown in Figure 2 as they occur to sheet 10b. The corrugations 101 thus effected are slight enough to enable the stacker 30 to operate with a short drop off on to the pile 31. In the described embodiment the force of air from each jet will be less than that which occurred at the previous upstream jet due to the release of air pressure through the upstream nozzle. Hence, for example, the force of air on the sheet resulting from second jets 505b will be less than that which occurred with the first Jets 505a. However, the corrugative effect upon the sheet due to the influence of a latter jet will not substantially differ from that effected by the previous jet, since the counteracting lift force has also dissipated as the sheet travels further from the discharge duct means 58. The lateral force components of the air jets 505a, b and c, which issue from the telescoping rods 53 serve to propel a sheet toward the backstop 32 by counteracting the natural frictional resistance of the sheet.The use of air pressure to push sheets against the backstop 32 permits transport of the sheets at high speed since the air flows from the lift means 56 and transporter 52 lubricate sheet travel to a far greater extent than mechanical jogging elements could be lubricated. When the sheet abuts the backstop 32, as shown by 10b in Figure 1, static pressure builds along the upper surface of sheet 10b. It will be apparent that the sizable dynamic pressure from the jets 505a, b and c is converted to static pressure as the flow due to the jets 505a, b and c is obstructed by the backstop 32. At the same time as static pressure is increasing above the sheet, the counteracting lift pressure due to the air flow issued from the duct means 58 is dissipating. Although the air pressure forces from both the lift means 56 and transporter means 52 are dissipating, it will be apparent that the lift pressure, which is generally static, will dissipate more quickly than the pressure due to the jet flows 505a, b and c1 which is dynamic to a large extent. When the pressure above the sheet becomes greater than the lift pressure below the sheet, the sheet drops on to the pile 31. The flows from the transporter 52 and the lift means 56 are regulated by means such as variable speed blowers, not shown, so that deposit on to the pile 31 occurs shortly after sheet 10b jogs with the backstop 32. Operation of the piling assembly 50 of the present invention may be summarised as follows. As each sheet is advanced by the delivery conveyor belt 21 to the kick off roller means 40, ionised air under pressure is forced upward by the lift means 56 against the undersurface of the sheet. At about the same time, first jets 505a of pressurised air issuing from the transporter means 52 contact the lead surface of the sheet. These jets 505a counteract the lift air pressure underneath the sheet along a plurality of discrete areas located beneath the telescoping rods 53 to form slight depressions or corrugations in the sheet. The corrugated sheet is propelled further out over the pile 31 due to the pushing effect of the conveyor belt 21 along the tail end of the sheet and the combined air forces generated by the piling assembly 50. As the sheet advances to its full length out over the pile 31, the piling assembly 50 takes on greater significance in transporting the sheet to the backstop 32. The corrugated sheet floats over the sheet pile 31 carried by counteracting vertical air pressure forces at the same time it is being jogged against the backstop 32 by the lateral forces of the air jets issuing from the telescoping rods 53. Upon engagement with the backstop 32, static pressure due to the air jets acting upon the upper surface of the sheet increases while the lifting pressure dissipates, such that the sheet drops on to the pile 31. The platform 60 supporting the pile 31 descends. Meanwhile, a succeeding sheet has been advanced to the kick off roller means 40 and the process is repeated.