# Greenhouse insulation apparatus.

## Abstract
An insulation strip 3 insulates a greenhouse 1 against thermal loss. This insulation strip may be each time easily arranged and removed, in that the strip is formed by a blanket bilaterally bounded by a synthetic resin foil and filled with insulation material.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A windable insulation strip for use on a greenhouse characterized in that the insulation strip is formed by a blanket bilaterally bounded by a synthetic resin foil and filled with insulation material. 2. An insulation strip as claimed in Claim I characterized in that the insulation material consists of polystyrene foam. 3. An insulation strip as claimed in Claim 1 or 2 characterized in that the synthetic resin foil consists of a water tight tissue of polypropylene. 4. An insulation strip as claimed in anyone of the preceding Claims characterized by transverse rods distributed along the length of the insulation strip. 5. An insulation strip as claimed in anyone of the preceding Claims characterized in that at each side edge of the insulation strip there is provided a sequence of guide members co operating with a guide rail. 6. An insulation strip as claimed in Claim 5 characterized in that the guide members are formed by channel section profiles of synthetic resin. 7. An insulation strip as claimed in anyone of the preceding Claims characterized in that the synthetic resin foil has a greater length on the wound up outer side of the insulation strip than on the inner side thereof and has, for this purpose, folds distributed along the length of the insulation strip. 8. A greenhouse provided with at least one insulation strip as claimed in anyone of the preceding Claims characterized in that the insulation strip is arranged on an inclined roof surface so as to be displaceable along horizontally directed rails, whereas a reel for winding up said insulation strip is arranged horizontally. 9. A method greenhouse translator as claimed in Claim 8 characterized in that a horizontal and a sloping guide roller are arranged between the reel and the roof surface. 10. A method greenhouse translator as claimed in Claim 8 or 9 characterized by a traction device comprising at least two draw cables each wound on a winch and engaging an end edge of the insulation strip. 11. A method greenhouse translator as claimed in Claim 8, 9 or 10 characterized by a light detector controlling the reel and the winch for winding up and off respectively the insulation strip. 12. A method greenhouse translator as claimed in anyone of Claims 8 to 11 characterized in that the insulation strip is arranged on the outer side of the roof.

## Description
Greenhouse and insulation strip for the same. It is known to cover greenhouses with rush mats, which is a time consuming, laborious job. It is furthermore known to cover greenhouses for insulation against thermal loss or excessive solar radiation by means of a synthetic resin foil inside the greenhouse, said foil being folded in and out as a concertina or wound on and off a reel. The invention relates to a greenhouse and an insulation strip for the same and has for its object to provide an insulation strip which improves the thermal insulation of the greenhouse and which can be readily applied and removed as desired. For this purpose the insulation strip according to the invention is formed by a blanket bilaterally bounded by a thin synthetic resin sheet and filled with insulation material. The insulation strip can be guided along the surface to be covered with the aid of transverse rods distributed along the length of the insulation strip and holding the side edges of the insulation strip at a given distance and with the aid of series of guide members co operating with a rail at each side edge of the insulation strip These guide members may be U shaped profiles of synthetic resin, which may be slidable in U shaped steel rails. In order to satisfactorily wind the insulation strip on a reel the length of the insulation strip on the coiled outer side is greater than on the inner side, whilst the synthetic foil has for this purpose folds distributed along the length of the insulation strip. The invention furthermore relates to and improves a greenhouse provided with at least one insulation strip embodying the invention. Preferably the insulation strip can be guided along horizontally directed rails arranged along an inclined roof surface, whereas a reel for winding the insulation strip is disposed horizontally. This is particularly important when a plurality of insulation strips are arranged side by side on a sequence of inclined roof surfaces at different angles. The insulation strip according to the invention is particularly important for occupying an insulating position when the heat given out exceeds the heat obtained by solar radiation. For this purpose the greenhouse embodying the invention is preferably characterized by a light detector controlling the reel and the winch for winding the insulation strip on and off respectively. The reel is preferably disposed on the outer side of the greenhouse in order to save precious space for cultures in the greenhouse. The insulation strip can thus be used at the same time for protecting the glass against hail. By using insulation strips according to the invention on a greenhouse an appreciable saving of heating costs can be achieved. In order to minimize penetration of solar light the reel is preferably disposed on the North side of the greenhouse. The invention will be descreibed more fully hereinafter with reference to a drawing. The drawing shows in Fig. 1 a perspective view of a greenhouse embodying the invention provided with insulation strips in accordance with the invention, Figs. 2 and 3 elevational views in the direction of the arrows II and III respectively of Fig. 1, Fig. 4 an enlarged plan view, partly broken away, of detail IV of Fig. 1, Fig. 5 an enlarged, perspective view, partly broken away, of detail V of Fi. 4 and Fig. 6 an enlarged sectional view taken on the lineVI VI of Fig. 1. A greenhouse 1 has a sequence of adjacent roof surfaces 2 at opposite angles of inclination a, each surface being covered by two insulation strips 3 embodying the invention. Each insulation strip is formed by a blanket bilaterally bounded by synthetic resin foil 4, 8, preferably propylene tissue and filled out with insulation material 5, preferably polystyrene foam. Transverse rods 6, for example, formed by U shaped steel or aluminium profiles, spaced apart along the length of the insulation strip 3 by intervals of, for example, 1 metre, maintain the side edges 7 of the insulation strip at the given distance b. At the side edges the foils 4 and 8 are welded together by a thermal weld 9 and are, moreover, fastened at said place to a sequence of guide members 10 each formed by lengths of channel section profiles of synthetic resin. In guiding the guide members 10 co operate with guide rails 11 extending in a horizontal direction of length and formed by channelsection metal profiles fastened to the frame 12 of the greenhouse 1.The filling material 5 preferably consists of blocks arranged between transverse folds 13 of the upper foil 8. Owing to these transverse folds 13 between the quide members 10 the foil 8 is longer than foil 4 and the insulation strip 3 can be wound on a reel 14. The insulation strip 3 may be considered to be an array of fairly rigid cushions 15 having a width c of, for example 20 cms, pivotally interconnected at the folds 13 The folds 13 are deeper the nearer they are to the reel 14. At every fifth block the foils 4 and 8 are welded by means of a transverse weld 32 in order to enclose the filling 5 in a direction of length. Although the insulation strips 3 are lying, in their insulating position, on an inclined roof surface 2, the reel 14 is arranged horizontally. The reel 14 can thus serve as a long, common reel for a large number of adjacent insulation strips 3. The core 33 of the reel 14 is rotatably journalled in bearing stools 16 and is driven by an electric motor 17 through a reducing gear 18 and a chain drive 19 for winding up the insulation strips 3. From the reel 14 each insulation strip 3 is guided along a horizontal guide roller 21 and a guide roller 22 arranged parallel to the slope of the roof surface 2. For winding off a traction device 20 is provided, which comprises for each insulation strip 3 two draw cables 23 wound on a winch 25 and engaging an end edge 26 of the insulation strip 3. This end edge may be formed by a metal profile.The winch 25 serves as a long, horizontal, common winch for winding up the draw cables 23 of the large number of insulation strips 3. The draw cables 23 located in the rails 11 are guided by guide pulleys 24 towards winch drums 27. The winch 25 is driven through a reducing gear 29 by an electric motor 28, which is preferably controlled automatically like the motor 17 by a light detector 30, which actuates the motor 28 at a transgression of the minimum limit of sunlight for winding off the insulation strips 3 and which actuates the motor 17 at a transgression of a maximum limit for winding up the insulation strips 3. The light detector 30 may be formed by a photo electric cell disposed on the roof or, preferably, on the outer side within reach of the hand. The motors 17 and 28 may as an alternative be actuated by a manual switch, for example, for covering the glass 31 when a hail shower or excessively fierce sunlight is expected. The insulation strip 3 may be provided on one or on both sides with a reflecting coating, for example, of aluminium foil.