# Epoxy coating composition containing a hardener and an accelerator.

## Abstract
This invention provides a coating composition comprising at least one 1,2 epoxy resin, a modified imidazole catalyst, and a polyfunctional phenol or polyfunctional acid or dicyandiamide.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A coating composition comprising at least one 1,2 epoxy resin, a modified imidazole catalyst, and a polyfunctional phenol, polyfunctional acid, or dicyandiamide. 2. A coating composition of Claim 1, wherein the epoxy resin is a diglycidyl ether of bisphenol A having a WPE of about 750 and the catalyst is imidazole modified with a digycidyl ether of bisphenol A having a WPE of about 192 and phthalic acid. 3. A coating composition of Claims 1 or 2, wherein the polyfunctional phenol is bisphenol A. 4. A coating composition of Claims 1 or 2, wherein the polyfunctional acid is adipic acid. 5. A coating composition of Claim 2 containing dicyandiamide. 6. A coating composition of Claim 1, wherein the epoxy resin is a diglycidyl ether of bisphenol A having a WPE of about 192 and the catalyst is imidazole modified with a diglycidyl ether of bisphenol A having a WPE of about 192 and phthalic acid. 7. A coating composition of Claim 6, wherein the polyfunctional phenol is bisphenol A. 8. A coating composition of Claim 6, wherein the polyfunctional acid is adipic acid.

## Description
COATING COMPOSITIONS HAVING DUAL CURING MECHANISMS This invention is concerned with epoxy resin coating compositions. This invention provides improved epoxy coating compositions that give cured coatings of varying crosslink density comprising at least one 1,2 epoxy resin, a modified imidazole catalyst, and a polyfunctional phenol or polyfunctional acid or dicyandiamide. In U. S. Application Serial No. 065,664 filed August 10, 1979, there is disclosed modified imidazole catalysts for epoxy resins and powder coatings containing them. The epoxy resin in the coating composition of this invention can be any 1,2 polyepoxy resin. Preferred resins are the diglycidyl ethers of bisphenols, particularly bisphenol A, and novolaks having a WPE weight per epoxy of between about 175 and about 4500. The choice of epoxy resins will depend upon the coating composition contemplated. For example, epoxy resins of.450 WPE can be used in powder coatings, wherein higher molecular weight resins are preferable. The lower molecular weight epoxy resins having a WPE between about 175 and about 450 can be used to prepare solution coatings, particularly high solids coating compositions.It is also contemplated to use small amounts of monoepoxy resins to control chain length. The modified imidazole catalysts are disclosed in U. S.Application Serial No. 65,664, filed August 10, 1979. In brief, the modified imidazole catalysts curing agents comprise an imidazole having the formula EMI1.1 wherein X is hydrogen, methyl, ethyl, or phenyl and Y and Z are hydrogen or ethyl, methyl modified by addition of C1 C18 alkyl meth acrylate, by addition of a diglycidyl ether of a bisphenol or a 1,2 monoepoxide, or by carbamoylation followed by neutralization with a lower fatty acid, a lower alkylene dicarboxylic acid, or an aromatic polycarboxylic acid. The curing mechanism catalyzed by the modified imidazole is based on the homopolymerization of the epoxy resin with crosslinking. With this formulation in powder coatings, high molecular weight epoxy resins had to be used so that the crosslink density would be low enough to give useful properties. In order to use lower molecular weight, epoxy resins and to vary the properties of the cured coatings, it is necessary to include polyfunctional phenols, polyfunctional acids, or dicyandiamide whose reaction with epoxy resins is also catalyzed by modified imidazoles. By including such polyfunctional materials, the structure of the cured polymer can be modified from a highly crosslinked polymer homopolymer with no added polyfunctional to a more linear polymer. Using suitable variations in the molecular weight of the epoxy resin, the polyfunctional group reactants and the ratio of these, cured polymeric coatings of varying crosslink density and properties are obtained. The polyfunctional materials are polycarboxylic aliphatic and aromatic acids, polyphenols, and dicyandiamide. Non limiting examples include succinic acid, glutaric acid, adipic acid, pimelic acid, suberic acid, azelaic acid, sebacic acid, phthalic acid, isophthalic acid, maleic acid, aconitic acid, diphenols, such as bisphenol A, low molecular weight novolacs, and low molecular weight resoles. The amount of modified imidazole catalyst used is in a ratio of between about 30 1 and about 1 1, expressed as the ratio of epoxide equivalents imidazole equivalents. Preferably, the ratio is about 5 20 1. The amount of polyfunctional material used is between about 10 percent and about 150 percent of the equivalents of epoxy resin and polyfunctional material. The coating composition can be a powder coating or a solution coating, particularly when the epoxy resin is a low molecular weight liquid resin. Depending upon the molecular weight of the epoxy resin, the coating solids content can be between about 35 percent and about 100 percent. The solvents utilizable in solution coating compositions include alkoxyethanols having the formula ROCH2CH20H where R isC5 C7, C4 C6 alcohols, C4 C6 ketones, C5 C1O Carbitols, and acetates of the alcohols, ethoxyethanol, andCarbitols. Mixtures of two or more solvents are contemplated. Example 1 A solution of 150 g. DER 663V WPE 750 , 150 g. methyl ethyl ketone MEK , and 10.7 g. imidazole catalyst. This catalyst was the imidazole modified by addition of Epon 828 WPE 192 and neutralized with one equivalent of phthalic acid. Fifty gram aliquots were added varying amounts of bisphenol A BPA , adipic acid, or dicyandiamide DiCy . Drawdowns of the solutions were made on steel panels and cured at 1490C 3000F for 15 minutes. Results are set forth in Table I. TABLE IBase Solution Additive equivalent Reverse Impact MEK DR 50 g 0.034 eq 160 200 SPA 25 160 200 50 160 200 100 160 200 Adipic Acid 25 160 II 50 160 100 160 DiCy 14 160 69 160 140 160 Example 2 Solution coatings were made and tested as described inExample 1, except that the epoxy resin was low molecular weight Epon 828 WPE 192 . Drawdowns were made and tested as in Example 1. Results are set forth in Table II. TABLE IIEpon 828 Additive equivalent Reverse Impact MEK DR 160 200 BPA 50 160 200 Adipic Acid 50 160 200 Example 3 The utility of the invention can also be demonstrated in powder coating compositions. The following composition based on DER 6611 and 1828Ph imidazole 828 1 mole phthalic acid catalysts at a 15 1 epoxy equivalent to Imidazole equivalent ratio were pigmented at 25 wt. percent pigment. Three coatings were made and tested. The date is shown in Table III for 50.8 m 2 mil films cured 10 minutes at 149 C 3000F . TABLE IIISample No. Equivalent BPA Reverse Impact 1126 0 32 1125 25 92 1124 50 100