# Semiautomatic hand gun.

## Abstract
A semi automatic pistol which may be fired in a double action manner or a single action manner. The pistol includes a barrel locating structure wherein the front portion of the barrel 300 has two surfaces 317, 318 oblique with respect to the longitudinal axis 301 of the barrel the oblique surfaces 317, 318 engage the cylindrical internal wall of the bushing 303 when the gun is in the firing position to secure the barrel 300 and improve the accuracy of the gun. The gun further includes a safety mechanism for simultaneously preventing the firing pin from moving for ward and the hammer from impacting the firing pin, and the gun also includes a segmented firing pin and a hammer actuator with ball bearings. Further a method of machining a gun barrel and a take down assembly for the pistol are described.

## Claims
CLAIMS Claim 1. A barrel locating structure comprising bushing means having an internal cylindrical wall and an elongated generally cylindically shaped barrel having a longitudinal axis and having a portion positioned within said bushing, said barrel being pivotal about an axis transverse to said longitudinal axis, said barrel being pi votal about said transverse axis into and out of a firing position, said portion of the barrel including a first surface located to the front of the transverse axis and contacting the cylindrical interior wall of the bushing when the barrel is in the firing position, said portion of the barrel in the firing position including a second surface located to the rear of the transverse axis and contacting the cylindrical interior wall of the bushing when the barrel is in the firing posi tion, said barrel being pivotal about the trans verse axis to a position wherein the first and second surfaces are removed from contact with the interior wall of the bushing to allow the barrel to slide with respect to the bushing. Claim 2. A barrel locating structure according to claim 1 wherein the first and the second surfa ces are oblique with respect to the longitudi nal axis of the barrel. Claim 3. A barrel locating structure according to claim 1 wherein said internal cylindrical wall of said bushing means includes an upper semi cylindrical portion and a lower semi cylindri cal portion and wherein said first surface con tacts the lower semi cylindrical portion of the internal wall of the bushing means when the bar rel is in the firing position and wherein the se cond surface contacts the upper semi cylindrical portion of the interior wall when the barrel is in the firing position. Claim 4. A barrel locating structure according to claim 3 wherein the first and the second surfa ces are oblique with respect to the longitudinal axis of the barrel. Claim 5 A barrel locating structure according to claim 4 wherein said bushing defines a longitu dinal axis and wherein the longitudinal axis of the barrel is in angular relation to the longi tudinal axis of the bushing when the barrel is in the firing position. Claim 6. A barrel locating structure according to claim 5 wherein the barrel is pivotal between the firing position and a slide position wherein the longitudinal axis of the barrel coincides with the longitudinal axis of the bushing. Claim 7. A barrel locating structure according to claim 6 wherein said portion of the barrel includes a third surface positioned in front of the trans verse axis, said surface being cylindrical about the longitudinal axis of the barrel, said third surface contacting the interior wall of the bushing when the barrel is in the slide position, said portion of the barrel including a fourth surface located to the rear of the transverse axis, said fourth surface being cylindrical with respect to the longitudinal axis of the barrel, the fourth surface contacting the interior wall of the bu shing when the barrel is in the slide position. Claim 8. A barrel locating structure according to claim 1 wherein said barrel has a front portion and a rear portion, the front portion of the barrel including the first and the second sur faces and being positioned within said bushing means when the gun is in the firing position. Claim 9 A barrel locating structure according to claim 8 wherein the rear portion of the barrel includes a camming lug having an aperture therein, said aperture defining a first camming surface and a second camming surface, said barrel locating structure further including pin means for pivo ting said barrel, said pin means being received by the camming lug aperture and contacting said first camming surface when the barrel is in the firing position, said barrel recoiling upon deto nation whereby the pin engages the second camming surface to pivot the barrel. Claim 10. A barrel locating structure according to claim 9 wherein the rear portion of the barrel is tilted upwardly in the firing position and is cammed downwardly by said pin means upon detona tion. Claim 11. A barrel locating structure according to claim 10 wherein the barrel and the bushing means simultaneously slide with respect to the pin until said pin means engages said second camming surface. Claim 12. A barrel locating structure according to claim 11 and further including slide means defi ning an interior surface, the interior surface of the slide means including engagement means, and wherein the rear portion of the barrel includes engagement means, the engagement means of the sli de means engaging the engagement means of the rear portion of the barrel when the gun is in the firing position, said engagement means being disengaged when the rear portion of the barrel pivots down wardly. Claim 13. A method for machining a barrel having a generally cylindrical exterior surface and having a longitudinal axis, the method comprising aligning the cylindrical exterior surface of the barrel with a grinding surface so that the longitudinal axis of the barrel is parallel to the grinding surface inclining the barrel about a point on the longitudinal axis to position the grinding of surface obliquely with respect to the longitudi nal axis of the barrel and providing for relative movement of the grinding surface with respect to said barrel to grind the barrel and provide a surface which is oblique with respect to the longitudinal axis of the barrel. Claim 14. A method of grinding an exterior surface portion of a generally cylindrical gun barrel comprising the steps of establishing a parallel relationship bet ween the axis of the barrel and the axis of rota tion of a grinding tool bringing the surface of the barrel and the rotating tool into contact producing relative motion between the axis of the barrel and the axis of rotation of the tool while maintaining the parallel relationship the rebetween whereby a cylindrical peripherical sur face portion of the barrel having a length com mensurate with the length of the grinding tool will be ground inclining the axis of the barrel relative to the axis of rotation of the tool by a predeter mined amount producing relative motion between the inclined axes of the barrel and tool rotation while maintaining a constant displacement bet ween said axis at a point intermediate the end of said portion to grind a surface which is obli que relative to the cylindrical peripherical sur face portion. Claim 15. A hammer actuator for use in a gun of the type having a pivotal hammer, hammer pivotal between a withdrawn position and a position whe re the hammer impacts a firing pin, a hammer actua tor comprising guide means body means positioned adjacent the guide means and slidable with respect to said guide means, said body means including at least one elongated recess a plurality of ball bearings positioned within said recess and contacting said guide means to provide for reduced friction between said body means and said guide means connecting rod means for connecting said body means with said hammer and spring means biasing said body means towards said hammer. Claim 16. A hammer actuator according to claim 15 wherein said guide means comprises a generally elongated guide having a U shaped cross section, said guide defining a floor and two walls, and, wherein said body is positioned within said guide means, said body defining at least two edges, said edges including ball bearings receiving recesses which receive the ball bearings, the ball bearings in each recess contacting the floor and the wall to provide for reduced friction between said body means and the U shaped guide. Claim 17. A hammer actuator according to claim 16 wherein said connecting rod means comprises an elongated connecting rod having two ends, one end being pivotally connected to the hammer and the other end being pivotally connected to said body. Claim 18. A hammer actuator according to claim 17 whe rein said means for urging the body means up wardly comprises a guide rod having a first end and a second end, said first end of the guide rod being positioned within an elongated cavity wi thin said body means, the other end of said rod anchored to the frame of the gun, and wherein said spring means comprises a spring positioned axis with respect to said guide rod, said spring being compressed when the hammer is in the withdrawn position, said spring biasing the body means up wardly to thereby bias the hammer toward the posi tion where the hammer impacts the firing pin. Claim 19. A firing pin comprising an elongated body portion having a hammer strike surface at one end thereof, said body ha ving a second end a cavity extending into the interior of the second end, said cavity terminating in seat means a detonation pin having a striking surface on one end thereof and having a second end posi tioned within said cavity and seating within said seat means Claim 20. A firing pin according to claim 19 wherein the second end of the detonation pin terminates in ball means and said cavity defines an arcuate ly shaped seat, said ball means seating within said arcuately shaped seat, said ball means being moveable with respect to said seat. Claim 21. A firing pin according to claim 20 where in the second end of the body includes at least one hole extending into the cavity and further including a pin integral with said ball means, and said hole receiving said pin to retain the detonation pin within the cavity. Claim 22. A firing pin according to claim 21 wherein the hole has a diameter and the pin has a dia meter, the diameter of the hole being larger than the diameter of the pin. Claim 23. A firing pin comprising body means providing an impact surface and detonation pin means connected to said body means, said pin means moveable with respect to said body means. Claim 24. A firing pin according to claim 23 wherein said pin means is pivotal with respect to said body means. Claim 25. A firing pin and hammer safety mechanism for a gun of the type in which a hammer is al lowed to strike a firing pin in response to the movement of a trigger, the safety mechanism com prising firing pin safety lever means having one end pivotal about an axis and another end releasably engaging the firing pin to prevent forward movement of the firing pin, said lever means being biased out of engagement with the firing pin hammer safety lock means comprising an elongated body having a camming surface at one end thereof , said camming surface urging the lever means into engagement with the firing pin, said hammer safety block means including on one side thereof hammer abutment means abutment means positioned on the hammer, said abutment means of the hammer aligned with the abutment means of said hammer safety block means to prevent striking of the firing pin by the ham mer when the hammer safety block means is urged up wardly and means for moving the hammer safety block means downwardly to provide for disengagement of the firing pin by the safety lever means and to move said two abutment means out of alignment to allow the hammer to strike the firing pin and to move the firing pin forward. Claim 26. A safety mechanism according to claim 25 and further including means for urging the safety lever downwardly to disengage the firing pin and means for urging the hammer safety block means upwardly to force said lever means upwardly to engage the firing pin. Claim 27. A safety mechanism according to claim 26 wherein said means urging the hammer safety block means upwardly comprises a biasing spring, said means for urging the lever means downwardly com prises a biasing spring means, said safety block biasing spring means being stronger than the bia sing spring means of said lever means to thereby provide for engagement of the firing pin by the lever means. Claim 28. A safety mechanism according to claim 27 wherein said means for moving the hammer safety block downwardly comprises camming pin means pro truding from one surface of said hammer safety block means, a camming surface moveable in response to movement of the trigger, said camming surface en gaging said pin means to provide for downward move ment of the hammer safety block means. Claim 29. A safety mechanism according to claim 28 whe rein said means for moving the hammer safety block means downwardly further includes a hammer safety block actuator, said actuator being pivotal about an axis, said actuator including the camming surface which contacts the camming pin, the actuator being rotated about the pivotal axis in response to movement of the trigger to provide for movement of the camming surface with respect to the camming pin, said camming surface forcing the camming pin and the hammer safety block means down wardly. Claim 30. A safety mechanism according to claim 29 and a safety mechanism according to claim 28 and further including an elongated bar means having one end thereof connected to the trigger and the other end thereof including a camming protrusion engaging the safety block actuator, said bar providing for movement of the camming protrusion to rotate the safety block actuator in response to mevement of the trigger. Claim 31. A safety mechanism according to claim 30 wherein said hammer safety block contacts a flat guide surface and said safety block means is slidable with respect to said guide surface. Claim 32. A single action system and a double action system for use in an automatic gun having a hammer and a trigger pivotal between the rest and firing positions, the trigger and the ham mer pivotal with respect to a frame assembly, the combined single action and double action system comprising elongated double action bar means having two ends, the first end of the bar means con nected to the trigger to provide for movement of the bar means when the trigger is pivoted from the rest position toward the firing position the hammer including a recess on the side of the hammer adjacent the double action bar means, said recess defining a camming surface the second end of the bar means including a camming protrusion which engages the camming surface to provide for pivoting of the hammer from the rest position to the firing position, said camming protrusion moving out of engagement with the camming surface to allow for release of the hammer elongated single action bar means having two ends, one end connected to the trigger, the second end of the single action bar means exten ding to the region of the hammer sear means pivotal about an axis and biased toward the hammer, said sear means inclu ding a hammer stop abutment. the hammer including a recess for enga ging the stop abutment of the sear The second end of the single action bar means engaging the stop abutment, the single action bar means moving forward in response to pivoting of the trigger to engage the stop abutment means and withdrawn the abutment means from the recess in the hammer to release the hammer. Claim 33. A system according to claim 32 wherein substantially the entire single action bar means is located on one side of the frame and substan tially the entire double action bar means is lo cated on the side of the frame opposite from the single action bar means. Claim 34. A system according to claim 33 wherein said recess on said hammer defines a camming hook which is engaged by the camming protru sion on the second end of the double action bar, said camming protrusion engaging the cam ming hook to move the hammer from the rest po sition to the firing position. Claim 35. A system according to claim 34 wherein the double action bar is pivotally mounted to the trigger, and when the hammer reaches the firing position, the camming protrusion on the second end of the double action bar means moves out of engagement with said camming hook to allow for release of the hammer. Claim 36. A system according to claim 35 wherein the second end of the double action bar means is biased upwardly and rearwardly. Claim 37. A system according to claim 32 wherein the end of the single action bar means is biased up wardly. Claim 38. A system according to claim 37 wherein the first end of the single action bar means includes camming protrusion extending toward the trigger and the trigger includes a recess defining a cam ming surface, said trigger moving said single action bar means forward by engagement of the camming pro trusion by the camming surface on the trigger. Claim 39. A system according to claim 38 wherein said single action bar means includes a protrusion ex tending upwardly, said protrusion being forced downwardly by the slide of the gun when the slide moves toward the rear of the gun, said slide forcing the single action bar means downwardly to provide for disengagement of the stop abutment, the abutment engaging the recess on the hammer thereby maintai ning the hammer in the cocked position. Claim 40. A take down mechanism for allowing the slide assembly of a gun to be detachably secured to a frame assembly of the gun, the frame assembly including spaced apart walls defining a space between the walls, the mechanism comprising an aperture in at least one of the walls the slide assembly including a protru sion which extends into the space between the walls of the frame, said protrusion including a pin receiving aperture, said aperture capable of being aligned with the aperture in the wall of the frame and further including an elongated take down pin being releasably received by said aperture in the wall and by said pin receiving aperture to secure the slide assembly to the frame assembly. Claim 41. A mechanism according to claim 40 and further including lock bolt means slidable with respect to the frame, said lock bolt means including an aperture being slidable between a position aligned with the aperture in the wall and a position out of alignement with the aperture in the wall, said pin inclu ding a recess, said recess being aligned with the lock bolt means and engaged by the lock bolt means to provide for retaining of the pin. Claim 42. A mechanism according to claim 40 and further including lock bolt means slidable with respect to the frame, said lock bolt means defining a pin retaining edge, and wherein said pin includes a recess, said recess being aligned with and engaged by the edge to pro vide for retaining of the pin. Claim 43. A mechanism according to claim 42 whe rein another wall includes recess means, said recess means being aligned with the aperture in the one wall of the gun, a first end of the pin being received by the recess means, and the pin spanning the space between the walls. Claim 44. A manual safety for use in a gun inclu ding a hammer pivotal between a cocked position and a firing pin impacting position, the hammer being engaged by a sear mechanism in the cocked position, the manual safety mechanism comprising manual safety body means including a re cess defining a camming surface, said body means being rotatable, sear separator means, said separator means being engaged by and being forced downwardly by the camming surface of said manual safety body means when the manual safety is rotated, said sear separator means forcing said sear means out of engagement with said hammer thereby allowing the hammer to fall, said manual safety mechanism contacting said hammer and preventing said hammer from impacting the firing pin. Claim 45. A gun according to claim 44 wherein said manual safety body means includes a recess which accomodates the hammer when the manual safety is in an off position to allow the hammer to strike the firing pin and which is out of align ment with the hammer when the manual safety is in an on position to prevent the hammer from striking the firing pin. Claim 46. A gun according to claim 45 wherein the sear separator includes a first end being en gaged by said camming surface on the manual safety body means and the second end includes a camming nib, said sear in the region of the camming nib having a recess which defines a camming lip, said camming nib contacting said camming lip when the sear separator is moved downwardly to rotate the sear and provide for disengagement of the hammer by the sear.

## Description
SEMIAUTOMATIC HAND GUN The present invention relates to guns. More particularly, the present invention relates to semiautomatic hand guns. In many conventional semiautomatic hand guns, when the barrel of the gun is in the firing position, the longitudinal axis of the barrel is tilted slightly downwardly. In order to allow the slide to move relative to the barrel subsequent to the firing of the gun, the barrel is by some mechanism moved to the horizontal position. A typical gun of this type is disclosed in U.S Patent NO 984,519 to J.M. Browning.As disclosed in this patent, when a barrel is pointing downwardly, the rear end of the barrel is maintained in place by a tongue and groove arrangement between the barrel and the slide. In order to allow the slide to move with respect to the barrel, the barrel is cammed downwardly to a position wherein the longitudinal axis of the barrel is horizontal.In the firing stage, when the barrel is tited slightly downwardly, it is desirable for purposes of accuracy to have the front and of the barrel maintained in position by the bushing.It should be understood that this is a difficult mechanism to design in that the bushing and barrel arrangement at the front end of the gun must not only provide for holding the barrel in position during firing, but also, the assembly must provide a means by which the barrel may pivot in the region of the bushing to allow the barrel to move to a horizontal position. U.S. Patent NO 3,207,037 to Pachmayr et al discloses a barrel locating structure which is said to increase the accuracy of the gun by increasing the precision with which the barrel of the gun is located and confined relative to a bushing in the recoilable slide. It is stated that the increased accuracy is achieved by the unique design of a forward bushing which acts in the firing position to embrace both the upper side and the underside of the forward end of the barrel in a manner positively confining the barrel against looseness. The cylindrically shaped forward end of the barrel is mounted to pivot very slightly about an axis transverse to the longitudinal axis of the barrel.The bushing has surfaces which at the time of firing engage the underside of the cylindrical barrel at a location forward of the transverse axis and engage the upper side of the barrel at a location rear of the transverse axis. When the barrel swings slightly downwardly relative to the bushing, the cylindrical barrel may move slightly out of engagement with the first set of surfaces and preferably into engagement with a second set of surfaces. The surfaces on the bushing which engage the cylindrical barrel are said to be formed by precision boring through the bushing along two slightly different intersecting axes, disposed at a very slight angle to one another, with the bushing held during boring by a suitable precision indexing fixture . Although the barrel locating structure disclosed in U.S.Patent 3,207,037 appears to allow for good accuracy, it is noted that the precision boring of the bushing is an extremely time consuming and expensive operation. The precision machining involves a boring tool which must be inserted in the bushing. It is an object of the barrel locating structure of the present invention to provide a pivotal barrel which may be used with a bushing having a generally cylindrical interior surface. It is a further object of the present invention to avoid precision boring of the interior surface of the bushing. It is another object of the present invention to provide a barrel which may pivot a very slight amount upon recoiling of the gun and which is capable of being securely embraced both on its upper side and its lower side by the bushing when the gun is in the firing position so as to provide increased accuracy. It is a further object of the in vent ion to provide a method of machining a barrel locating structure, the method requiring relatively little maching time and providing for precision machining of the barrel. A conventional firing pin comprises a body having a relatively large cross sectional area, the body having one end which is impacted by the hammer. The other end of the body of the firing pin has a detonation pin integral therewith and extending toward the cartridge to be detonated. A recurring problem with prior art firing pins is that the firing pin tends to break where the detonation pin is integrally attached to the body of the firing pin. In a conventional gun, the firing pin is slidable through a chamber. The chamber has a small amount of clearance which allows for movement of the firing pin. However, this clearance also allows for the firing pin to align at an angle with respect to the axis of the cartridge to be detonated.When the hammer strikes the rear of the firing pin, the force of the hammer is transmitted to a relatively small cross sectional area between the detonation pin and the body. This relatively small crosssectional area is subject to fatigue and failure. It is an object of the present invention to provide a firing pin which will not tend to fail. It is desirable to prevent the unintentional firing of a hand gun by preventing the impacting of the firing pin against the cartridge positioned within a chamber of the gun.The unintentional firing of the gun usually occurs when the gun is mishandled or dropped. If the gun were to be accidentally dropped and the front portion of the gun were to hit the ground, the momentum of the dropped gun might be sufficient to move the hammer forwardly to impact the firing pin. Thus, it is desirable to provide a mechanism which prevents the hammer from impacting the firing pin. Even if the hammer is prevented from impacting the firing pin, a further problem exists. The firing pin has a defined mass and is usually biased away from the cartridge. However, the momentum sup plied to the firing pin by virtue of the gun being dropped may be sufficient to move the firing pin forward to impact the cartridge. Thus, it is desirable to prevent the firing pin from being moved forward. Many conventional hand guns include safety mechanisms for the firing pin. A typical firing pin mechanism includes an engagement means in the slide of the gun which engages the pin to prevent the firing pin from moving forward. The engagement means is usually responsive to movement of the trigger.Thus, when a person seeks to intentionally fire the gun, movement of the trigger provides for disengagement of the firing pin to allow the firing pin to be moved forward. It is one object of the present invention to provide a safety mechanism which engages the firing pin to prevent forward movement of the firing pin and which also simultaneously prevents the hammer from striking the firing pin.It is a further object of the invention to provide a safety mechanism which is relatively simple in construction. A conventional hammer actuator comprises a lever having one end attached to the hammer at a point displaced from the hammer pivot point and a second end attached to a shoe which slides in relation to a slide in the frame assembly. The shoe is biased upwardly by a spring sufficiently heavy to provide for a hammer strike having a force adequate to detonate the cartridge. In conventional hammer actuators, the shoe bears directly on the guide in the frame assembly. Friction is incurred as a result of the shoe sliding in direct contact with the guide of the frame assembly. Because of this friction, the hammer falls at a slower speed, a relatively large amount of energy is consumed in moving the hammer a heavier spring is necessary and the trigger pull is generally relatively heavy. Moreover, a significant and important drawback with prior art hammer actuators is that shootings may be less accurate more time is required between the time at which the hammer is released and the time at which the hammer strikes the firing pin to detonate the cartridge. The hand of a person shooting the gun may move during this time. It is an object of the present invention to provide a hammer actuator which allows for relatively quick falling of the hammer, requires less energy to move the hammer and requires a lighter trigger pull. It is desirable to provide a hammer actuator which reduces the time elapsed between the time when the trigger is released and the time when the trigger strikes the firing pin. Reducing this elapsed time is conducive to more accurate shooting. In semiautomatic hand guns, when a cartridge is in the chamber of the gun and the hammer is in its uncocked position, the hammer may be drawn back by pulling the trigger.When the trigger is displaced a predetermined distance and the hammer has been moved a defined distance, the hammer is allowed to fall and strike the firing pin which, in turn, detonates the cartridge. The energy of detonation forces the slide of the gun toward the rear of the gun. The slide contacts the hammer and moves the hammer to the cocked position. The hammer may then be released by a slight movement of the trigger. In a conventional double action semiautomatic hand gun, the gun can be operated by two systems. One system is known as the double action system. In this system, when the gun is in the uncocked position, the trigger may be pulled to move the hammer backwardly and release the hammer to provide for striking of the firing pin by the hammer. When the gun is fired, the slide moves toward the rear of the gun to thereby cock the hammer. A single action system allows for release of the hammer when the hammer is in the cocked position. Also, the single action system provides a mechanism by which the hammer may be withdrawn by hand to the cocked position. With the single action system, each time the gun is fired, the hammer is cocked and a new cartridge is forced into the firing chamber. The gun will fire with the singke action system as long as the magazine continues to provide cartridges for the gun. In a conventional double action semiautomatic hand gun,the mechanisms for allowing for the above described type of movement are extremely complex and require intricately machined parts. Because of the intricacy of the parts, the machining involved in producing a conventional gun is time consuming and expensive. It is an object of the present invention to provide a simplified mechanism which allows the semiautomatic gun to be fired either in a single action manner or a double action manner. It is also an object of the invention to provide a simplified mechanism which reduces machining time and expense. The double action, semiautomatic gun of the present invention is relatively simple in structure. The gun includes a frame assembly and a slide assembly. The frame assembly includes a frame having two outer walls which define a space. The space accomodates the internal parts of the frame assembly. To fully understand the simplicity of the double action gun of the present invention, it should be understood that many of the internal parts of the frame assembly are located by four pins and an internal wall which is positioned between and integral with the two outer walls of the frame.Reference may be made to FIGURE 28 for a better understanding of the relationship of the internal parts of the slide assembly and the four pins and the internal wall. The slide assembly includes a unique barrel locating structure. The barrel locating structure of the present invention comprises a bushing having an internal, cylindrical wall and a barrel which is elongated and has a generally cylindrically shape. The front portion of the barrel is positioned within the bushing. The barrel defines a longitudinal and is pivotal about an axis which is transverse to the longitudinal axis. The barrel is pivotal about the transverse axis into and out of the firing position. In the firing position, the longitudinal axis of the barrel and the front end of the barrel are inclined a slight amount downwardly. The front portion of the barrel includes a first surface located to the front of the transverse axis, the first surface contacting the cylindrical wall of the bushing when the barrel is in the firing position. The first surface is oblique with respect to the longitudinal axis of the barrel. The front portion of the barrel also includes a second surface which is located to the rear of the transverse axis, the second surface contacting the cylindrical wall of the bushing when the barrel is in the firing position. This second surface is also oblique with respect to the longitudinal axis of the barrel. When the gun is fired, the barrel, the bushing and the slide recoil toward the rear of the gun. Initially, the bushing, the barrel and the slide move in unison toward the rear of the gun. After a short distance, the rear portion of the barrel is cammed downwardly so that the longitudinal axis of the barrel is in a horizontal position. When the rear portion of the barrel is cammed downwardly, the barrel pivots and the first and the second oblique surfaces disengage the internal cylindrical wall of the bushing. The mechanism for camming the rear portion of the barrel downwardly includes a pin which engages a camming surface on the barrel.The barrel is then restrained by the pin from further movement toward the rear of the gun. However, since the slide is not restrained by the pin, the slide continues to move toward the rear of the gun. A spring mechanism in the slide assembly then drives the slide toward the front of the gun. When the slide is in alignment with the barrel, the rear portion of the barrel is forced upwardly and the first and second oblique surfaces on the front portion of the barrel engage the interior cylindrical wall of the bushing. The barrel is now in the firing position and the gun may be fired again. The shape of the front portion of the barrel may be best understood by understanding a method by which the barrel is machined. In order to machine the front portion of the barrel, a grinding tool is rotated around the barrel to provide a generally cylindrical land area on the front portion of the barrel. The barrel is stationary when the land area is being ground. After the barrel has been ground to provide a cylindrical land area, the tool is withdrawn from contact with the barrel. The barrel is then tilted about a line which is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the barrel. After the longitudinal axis of the barrel has been tilted with respect to the grinding surface, the grinding tool is moved from the withdrawn position to a position wherein the tool begins to grind the land portion of the barrel.The tool is rotated about the barrel to grind away a portion of the land area and to provide surfaces which are oblique with respect to longitudinal axis of the barrel. The method of machining the barrel is particularly simple and provides for precision machining of the barrel. During the grinding of the land area of the barrel and during the grinding of the oblique surfaces, the barrel is stationary. Since the tool may be rotated with great precision, a barrel having precise dimensions is provided.The method of the present invention allows for precision grinding of the exterior barrel rather than precision boring of the bushing. It should be understood, that the method of grinding the front portion of the barrel is much more simple than a boring operation. Thus, the method of the present invention saves machining time and allows for the production of precision machined barrels. Because of the simple machining operation, precision machined barrels may be produced in large numbers. The gun of the present invention also includes a safety mechanism for simultaneously preventing the firing pin from moving forward and the hammer from impacting the firing pin. The firing pin, which is moveable in response to the impacting of the hammer, includes a lever receiving aperture which receives a firing pin safety lever when the gun is in the rest position. The firing pin safety lever comprises a generally elongated lever pivotally mounted about a pivot pin which is affixed to the slide of the gun. When the gun is in the rest position, one end of the lever is engaged in the aperture of the firing pin to prevent the pin from moving forward. The safety mechanism includes a spring which biases the end of the lever out of the aperture in the firing pin.Thus, to prevent the firing pin from moving forward, the bias of the spring must be overcome and the lever must be rotated upwardly to force the end of the lever in the aperture. When the lever is in the aperture, the lever engages the firing pin and prevents forward movement of the firing pin. The firing pin safety mechanism includes a hammer safety block. The hammer safety block performs two important functions. One function of the hammer safety block is to urge the firing pin safety lever upwardly to lock the firing pin. The hammer safety block comprises an elongated body portion including a firing pin lever camming surface on one end thereof. The second end of the hammer safety block includes a camming protrusion or camming pin which extends outwardly from the block and allows for the block to be pulled downwardly. Furthermore, the hammer safety block is biased upwardly by a spring. The spring urges the hammer safety block upwardly which, in turn, urges the firing pin safety lever upwardly. In the rest position of the gun, the spring bias on the hammer safety block overcomes the spring bias on the lever.When the gun is in the rest position, the lever engages the pin to prevent the pin from moving forward. The hammer safety block performs a second impor tant function the safety block contacts the hammer and prevents the hammer from moving forward. Protruding from one side of the hammer safety block is a hammer abutment which contacts the hammer and prevents the hammer from striking the firing pin when the gun is in the rest posi tion. An abutment protrudes from the hammer and is designed to contact the abutment on the hammer safety block. When the gun is in the rest position, the two abutments are aligned and in contact and the hammer is prevented from striking the firing pin. In order for the gun to be fired, the hammer safe ty block must be moved downwardly. When the hammer safety block is moved downwardly, the safety block disengages the firing pin safety lever and the lever moves downwardly. The firing pin safety lever moves downwardly and disengages the firing pin. Thus, the firing pin may now be moved forward by the striking of the hammer. The downward movement of the hammer safety block also moves the abutment on the hammer safety block out of alignment with the abutment on the hammer. Thus, the hammer may now strike the firing pin. A hammer safety block actuator or bird provides for movement of the hammer safety block downwardly. The term bird is descriptive of the shape of the hammer safety block actuator. The hammer safety block actuator includes an elongated camming surface which engages the camming pin protruding from the hammer safety block. When the actuator is pivoted about a third major axis of the gun, the elongated camming surface slidably engages the pin and forces the hammer safety block downwardly. It should be understood that the actuator is rotated in response to movement of the trigger. The double action bar, described in more detail elsewhere in the application, provides for rotation of the actuator. The gun of the present invention includes a uniquely designed firing pin. The firing pin is segmented and includes at least two segments a body portion and a detonation pin portion. The body includes a cavity at one end thereof which receives the detonation pin. The detonation pin has a generally elongated shape and terminates in a ball which fits within the cavity. When the body opposite the cavity is struck by the hammer of the gun, the rear wall of the cavity contacts the ball of the detonation pin and forces the detonation pin forward. The body includes an aperture extending into the cavity and the ball of the detonation pin includes a transverse pin which fits within the aperture. The aperture is slightly larger than the transverse pin to allow for greater machining tolerances.Thus, since the pin is already segmented, there is a reduced possibility of any portion of the pin fracturing. The gun of the present invention may be operated in either a double action manner or a single action manner.In the double action system of the present invention, an elongated double action is provided and is pivotally mounted at one end thereof on the trigger. The second end of the double action bar includes a cam protrusion which protrudes through an aperture in the frame assembly and which also engages the hammer. The hammer includes on one side thereof a recess defining a camming surface. The recess and the camming surface also define a camming hook on the side of the hammer nearest the double action bar. The double action bar is biased upwardly so that when the hammer is in the uncocked position, the camming protrusion fits within the recess of the hammer.When the gun is desired to be fired from the rest position, a person operating a gun pulls the trigger toward the rear of the gun which in turn moves the double action bar toward the front of the gun and provides for engagement of the camming surface on the hammer by the cam protrusion of the double action bar.As the trigger is pulled, the hammer is withdrawn by the.action of the camming protrusion on the camming surface. As the trigger is pulled further, the double action bar moves to a point where the hammer has been rotated to a position to provide sufficient force to discharge the cartridge. When the trigger is pulled an increment further, the camming protrusion slides past the camming hook defined by the recess in the hammer and the hammer is released. The camming protrusion on the double action bar also operates the firing pin and the hammer safety mechanism. When the gun is fired, the slide of the gun moves towards the rear of the gun and forces the hammer into the cocked position. The manner by which the hammer is cocked and released will be described with respect to the single action mechanism . It should be understood that the double action bar is located on the exterior of the frame and on one side of the gun. It is preferred that the double action bar be positioned on the right side of the gun. The single action mechanism is desirably positioned on the side of the gun opposite from the double action mechanism, most preferably on the left side of the frame assembly. When the hammer is withdrawn or pushed back by the recoiling slide or by manual means, the hammer is engaged by a sear which holds the hammer in the cocked position until the sear is moved by the single action bar to release the hammer. The single action bar comprises an elongated bar having one end connected to the sear to provide for movement of the sear to release the hammer when the single action bar is moved forward. The other end of the single action bar is connected to the trigger to provide for forward movement of the single action bar in response to movement of the trigger. Thus, with the single action system, the trigger pulls the single action bar forward to remove the sear from engagement with the hammer thereby releasing the hammer. The hammer strikes the firing pin, which, in turn, detonates the cartridge. The force provided by the cartridge moves the slide backwardly to engage the hammer and move the hammer to the cocked position. It should be appreciated that the double action and the single action bars are relatively simple in construction and relatively inexpensive to machine. Also, the double action and single action bars do not require close tolerance machining. The gun of the present invention provides a hammer actuator having a shoe which includes ball bearing operated friction surfaces. The ball bearing hammer actuator of the present invention comprises a hammer lever which is connected at one end to the hammer and which is connected at the other end to a shoe which is slidable in relation to a guide surface having a U shaped cross section. The guide surface is provided for by a portion of the frame which has a generally U shaped cross section. The shoe of the ball bearing hammer actuator includes a body having a generally rectangular shape which is designed to fit within the U shaped guide. The shoe fits within the guide with a small clearance, the clearance allowing for use of ball bearings. Two edges of the body of the shoe include elongated recesses. The recesses receive a plurality of bearing balls therein.The bearing balls protrude from the bottom of the shoe and the sides of the shoe. The bearing balls are in contact with the walls and the floor of the U shaped guide.A spring mechanism urges the shoe upwardly. Bearing balls are only required on one side of the shoe because the second side of the shoe is out of contact of the with frame assembly. Because of the reduction in friction due to the use of bearing balls, the hammer of the gun falls much more quickly and with less energy loss. The gun has a relatively light trigger pull and may be shot more accurately. The shooting accuracy is increased because there is less elapsed time between the time at which the hammer is released and the time at which the hammer strikes the firing pin. The gun of the present invention provides a unique take down assembly which allows for the slide assembly to be detachably secured to the frame assembly. The barrel includes at the rear end thereof a camming lug which extends from the slide assembly downwardly into the interior qf the frame assembly of the gun. The camming lug includes an aperture which defines a camming surface. As will be described hereinafter, the camming surface functions to move the barrel in and out of the firing position. The aperture in the camming lug also forms part of the take down assembly. The frame of the gun includes an aperture which extends through one side of the frame into the interior of the frame. The aperture in the frame and the camming lug are in alignment. A take down pin is releasably positioned within the aperture to retain the slide assembly with respect to the frame assembly. The take down pin is releasably secured to the frame assembly by an elongated take down pin lock bolt. The lock bolt is a generally flat rectangularly shaped part which is slidable with respect to the frame and which is biased toward the front of the gun. The portion of the lock bolta7hich is adjacent the apertures in the frame and the barrel defines a locking surface or edge which engages a detent on the take down pin. The take down pin has a generally elongated shape and has a length sufficient to span the width of the interior of the frame and to be engaged by both walls of the frame. One end of the pin includes a locking groove in which the locking surface or edge of the lock bolt is positioned. In order to remove the take down pin, the lock bolt is manually moved toward the rear of the gun to disengage the lock surface with the locking groove. The take down pin may then be manually withdrawn from the gun. The slide assembly may be then removed from the frame assembly. Other inventive features of the semiautomatic hand gun will be apparent from the following drawings and the following detailed description of the invention. FIGURE 1 shows a plan view of the right side of the gun FIGURE 2 shows a plan view of the left side of the gun FIGURE 3 shows a top plan view of the take down assembly pin FIGURE 4 shows a side plan view of the take down assembly pin FIGURE 5 shows a plan view of the rear of the take down assembly pin FIGURE 6 shows a right side view of the double action system, the gun being in the rest position FIGURE 7 shows a plan view of the double action bar shown in FIGURE 6, the double action bar being turned over to give an unobstructed view of the interior side of the double action bar FIGURE 8 is a rear plan view of the double action bar shown in FIGURE 7 FIGURE 9 shows a right side view of the double action system, the gun being in a position where the hammer is about to be released FIGURE 10 shows a left side view of the single action system of the gun, the gun being in a position where the hammer of the gun is in a cocked position FIGURE 11 shows a left side view of the single action system of the gun, the gun being shown in a position where the gun has been fired FIGURE 12 shows a right side plan view of the hammer actuator mechanism FIGURE 13 shows a sectional view along the line 13 13 of the FIGURE 12 FIGURE 14 shows a sectional view along the line 14 14 of FIGURE 12 FIGURE 15 shows a sectional view along the line 15 15 of FIGURE 12 FIGURE 16 shows a sectional view alQng the line 16 16 of FIGURE 12 FIGURE 17 shows a side sectional view of the bushing and the slide and a side plan view of the barrel disposed within the bushing and the slide, the barrel being in a firing position wherein the gun is about to be fired FIGURE 18 shows a side sectional view of the bushing and the slide a side plan view of the barrel, the barrel the slide and the bushing being shown in a position wherein the gun has been fired and the barrel, the bushing and the slide have recoiled FIGURE 19a shows a schematic side view of the method of grinding a cylindrical front portion of the barrel FIGURE 19b shows a schematic side view of the method of grinding the front portion of the barrel to provide surfaces which are oblique with respect to longitudinal axis of the barrel FIGURE 20 shows a left plan view of the safety mechanism for the firing pin and the hammer, the gun being in the rest position wherein forward movement of the firing pin and contacting of the firing pin by the .hammer is prevented FIGURE 21 shows a left plan view of the firing pin and the hammer safety mechanism, the gun being in the position wherein the hammer has impacted the firing pin and detonated the cartridge FIGURE 22 shows a side sectional view of the slide, the barrel and the bushing FIGURE 23 shows a side plan view of the firing pin FIGURE 24 shows a right side view of the gun wherein the lock bolt has been removed to expose the double action bar and to show the underside of the lock bolt FIGURE 25 shows a left side view of the gun wherein the slide stop and the single action bar cover have been removed FIGURE 26 shows a right side view of the manual safety of the gun, the gun being shown in the manual safety off position FIGURE 27 shows a right side view of the manual safety of the gun, the gun being shown in a manual safety on position and FIGURE 28 shows an exploded perspective view of some of the parts of the frame assembly. FIGURE 1 shows a right side plan view of the gun according to the present invention. The take down pin has been removed and the grip parts for the handle of the gun have been removed in order to better show the various parts of the gun. The gun is separable into two basic parts the frame assembly 200 and the slide assembly 201. The parts associated with frame assembly 200 will be apparent from the detailed description of the invention which follows.Some of the major parts included in the frame assembly are the frame 500, the trigger 10, the hammer 100, the lock bolt 204, the single action bar 15, the trigger guard 501. As shown in FIGURE 1 the frame 500 includes two holes 503 and 504 which allow the grip part to be secured to the gun. The grip part is a conventional part that fits over both sides of the handle of the gun. The grip part may be made of wood, plastic or other materials.Frame 500 includes a space 505 which receives a conventional magazine, the magazine not being shown in the drawings for the sake of the simplicity. The frame assembly 200 is also shown in FIGURE 2.Two grip holes 506 and 507 allow for the securement of the grip part. Protruding from the frame 500 is a magazine retaining button 508 which may be pushed to release the magazine from magazine accomodating space 505. The gun includes a slide stop mechanism 509 and a single action bar cover 510. The function of slide stop 509 and single action bar cover 510 will be described with respect to FIGURE 30. The parts associated with the slide assembly 201 will be apparent from the detailed description of the invention which follows. Some of the major parts included in the slide assembly 201 are slide 400, barrel 300, bushing 303, rear sight 511, front sight 512, manual safety 350, and the firing pin not shown in either FIGURE 1 or 2 . The following is a detailed description of the various mechanisms of the gun of the present invention. Each mechanism in the gun will be described by reference to only the important parts of the particular mechanism. Toward the end of the detailed description of the invention, the various parts which form the mechanisms of the gun are shown in exploded view in FIGURE 28. FIGURE 28 shows the spacial relation of the parts of the various mechanisms.It should be noted that the gun in the present invention has a particularly simple construction because many of the parts of the gun perform two or more functions. It is also important to note that many of the major parts of the gun are secured within the frame of the gun by the use of four pins, pin 127, pin 119, pin 101 and pin 12. The various internal parts of the gun are positioned in relation to wall 157 which is an integral part of the frame. FIGURE 28 shows the relation of the four pins and wall 157.It may be helpful to refer to FIGURE 28 while reading the following detailed description of the various mechanisis of the gun of the present invention. FIGURES 1, 3, 4 and 5 show the take down assembly.The take down assembly allows for the slide assembly to be detachably secured to the frame assembly. FIGURE 1 shows a plan view of the right side of the gun. The gun is separable into two major assemblies the frame assembly 200 and the slide assembly 201. As described with respect to FIGURES 17 and 18, the slide assembly 201 includes a barrel 300 having a camming lug 310 extending from the slide assembly 201 into the interior of frame 202. Camming lug 310 includes an aperture 311 which receives take down pin 211.It should be understood that the frame includes a right side wall and a left side wall, the walls defining a space for the interior parts of the gun. The right side wall of the frame is shown at reference character 203 in FIGURE 2.A generally flat elongated take down pin lock bolt 204 is slidable in relation to frame 202 and is biased in the forward direction as shown in FIGURE 1. One end of the lock bolt includes an elongated groove 205 which allows for the lock bolt 204 to slide with respect to retaining pin 101 which is anchored in frame 202. A chamber 207 is machined in the interior surface of the lock bolt 204 and accomodates spring 208. Spring 208 provides a biasing force which urges lock bolt 204 in the forward position shown in FIGURE 1. It should be understood that the interior surface of lock bolt 204 also has a recess with accomodates double action bar 15. This recess is not shown in FIGURE 1, but, the recess is shown in FIGURE 29. Wall 203 of frame 202 includes an aperture 209.Aperture 209 is aligned with aperture 311. As shown inFIGURE 1, the second end of the lock bolt 204 includes an aperture 210, the aperture 210 being out of alignment with the aperture 209 when the lock bolt is in the forward position shown in FIGURE 2. FIGURES 3, 4 and 5 show various views of take down pin 211 which may be inserted in aperture 209 of the frame and aperture 210 of the lock bolt 204. Take down pin 211 also passes through aperture 311 on the barrel. It should be understood that FIGURES 3, 4 and 5 are enlarged views of the take down pin that would be used with the gun shown in FIGURE 1. Take down pin 211 comprises an elongated body 212. Body 212 has a generally oval cross section and is adapted to be received by apertures 209 and 210. One end of the pin 211 includes a flat cap 213 which is designed to cover aperture 210 when the pin is inserted into the gun. Adjacent cap 213, body portion 212 includes a recess 214 having one side defined by body 212 and the other side defined by cap 213. The second end of pin 211 includes a second recess 215. In order to place pin 211 in the gun shown in FIGURE 1, the finger of a person operating the gun is pla ced on finger gripping ridges 216 and the lock bolt 204 is slid toward the rear of the gun to a point where aperture 210 is in alignment with aperture 209. Pin 211 may then be inserted through aperture 210, aperture 209 and aperture 311 in the barrel. The interior surface of the left wall of the frame includes a recess which receives the second end of pin 211. The left wall is opposite right wall 202 and neither the left wall nor the recess is shown in FIGURE 1. When lock bolt 204 is released and allowed to slide forward, edge 217 of aperture 210 engages recess 214 on pin 211. When pin 211 is received in aperture 210, aperture 209, aperture 311 and the recess in the interior surface of the left wall of the gun, the slide assembly is secured to the frame assembly. To release the slide assembly from the frame assembly, lock bolt 204 is slid toward the rear of the gun, edge 217 disengages recess 214 and the pin 211 may be withdrawn. When pin 211 is withdrawn to a position where recess 215 is aligned with edge 217, lock bolt 204 may be released thereby allowing edge 217 of lock bolt 204 to engage recess 215 of pin 211. When the pin 211 is in the partially withdrawn position, the slide assembly may be removed from the frame assembly. The engagement of recess 215 by edge 217 retains the pin 211 and prevents loss of the pin 211 when the gun is being taken down. Referring to FIGURES 6 11 the double action and single action systems are shown. The double action systems will be described with respect to FIGURES 6, 7, 8 and 9. Trigger 10 includes an elongated lever 11 which is curved to provide for engagement by the finger of a person operating the gun. Trigger 10 is pivotal about pin 12 to allow for movement of the trigger between the position shown in FIGURE 6 and the position shown in FIGURE 9. Trigger 10 also includes an aperture 13 which receives for pin 14. Pin 14 is preferably integral with double action bar 15. Double action bar 15 has a generally elongated shape and has a length which spans the distance between the trigger 10 and the hammer 100.Double action bar 15 is pivotal about pin 14 and is biased to the rear of the gun by spring mechanism 16. Spring mechanism 16 includes a pivot pin 17 mounted in frame assembly 18. Affixed to pivot pin 17 is guide rod 19 which is attached to pin 17 and which provides for positioning of spring 20.The other end of guide rod 19 is mounted in and slidable with respect to guide spring anchor 21. Guide spring anchor 21 includes hole 22 which allows for movement of guide rod 19 therethrough. The right side of the frame assembly includes a shallow recess 49. A steel spring 48 is positioned within the shallow recess 49. One end of spring 48 engages spring protrusion 47 and biases double action bar 15 upwardly. Thus, double action bar 15 is biased upwardly and rearwardly. The end of the double action bar 15 opposite the trigger includes a mechanism for moving the hammer from the rest position shown in FIGURE 6 to a withdrawn position shown in FIGURE 9. The double action bar is located on the right side of the gun and adjacent the frame assembly. At its lower end, the right side of hammer 100 includes a recess 23 which defines a camming surface 24 and a camming hook 25. Cam protrusion 26 protrudes from double action bar 15 through an aperture in the frame and is de signed to engage camming surface 24 in response to movement of trigger 10. Camming protrusion 26 has a front surface 27 which engages the camming hook 25. Camming surface 27 also provides for movement of actuator 122 as is desribed with respect to FIGURES 20 and 21. Referring to FIGURES 6 and 9 simultaneously, as the trigger is moved from the rest position toward the firing position, camming protrusion 26 engages camming surface 24 on hammer 100 and moves the hammer in the counterclockwise direction. After the hammer has been rotated a portion of the distance to the release position shown in FIGURE 9, camming protrusion 26 engages and rotates actuator 122 forward to provide for the release of the firing pin and hammer safety mechanism. When the double action bar reaches the position shown in FIGURE 9, camming protrusion 26 slides past camming hook 25 and the hammer is released. The hammer is forced forward to strike the firing pin. The detonation of the cartridge by the firing pin produces a recoiling of the slide which moves hammer 100 from contact with the firing pin and toward a cocked position wherein the gun may be fired by the single action system shown in FIGURES 10 and 11. Referring to FIGURES 10 and 11 single action system has as its principal component single action bar 51. Single action bar 51 includes one end 52 which provides for release of hammer 100 and a second end 53 which is connected to trigger 10. The single action side of trigger 10 includes a recess 54 which defines a camming surface 55, camming surface 55 allowing for the trigger to move the single action bar 51 from the cocked position shown in FIGURE 10 to the released position shown in FIGURE 11. Single action bar 51 is positioned generally exterior to frame 18 and on a side of the frame assembly opposite double action bar 15. End 53 of single action bar 51 includes a camming protrusion 56 which extends through an aperture in the frame assembly 18 into the interior of the gun. Camming surface 55 of trigger 10 engages camming protrusion 56 to move single action bar 51 forward.Single action bar 51 is pivotal about pin 57 which is integral with bar 51 and which extends into guide cavity 58. Guide cavity 58 is an elongated slot in the frame which allows for pivoting of bar 51 about pin 57 and sliding of pin 57 with respect to frame 18. The side of hammer 100 adjacent the single action bar 51 includes a recess 60 which provides a cocking surface 61 on hammer 100. Sear 62 comprises a generally elongated lever which is pivotally mounted on pin 119.It should be understood that pin 119 is the same pin which holds hammer safety block 113 in position. Sear 62 includes cavity 63, cavity 63 including a spring which urges sear 62 in the clockwise direction as shown in FIGURES 10 and 11. Protruding from the upper region of the sear 62 is a hammer stop abutment 64 which abuts surface 61 and prevents falling of the hammer. Abutment 64 extends through an aperture not shown in frame assembly 18 and is capable of being engaged by end 52 of single action bar 51. End 52 includes a generally U shaped hook 65 which provides for pulling of abutment 64 forward to thereby release hammer 100. In order to release hammer 100, trigger 10 is pulled a slight additional distance. Movement of the trigger moves single action bar 51 forward a slight distance. Hook 65 of single action bar 51 engages abutment 64 and moves abutment 64 toward the front of the gun. When abutment 64 moves past surface 61, the hammer is released and is allowed to fall and strike the firing pin in the position shown inFIGURE 11. It should be understood that as the single action system shown in FIGURES 10 and 11 functions, the double action system shown in FIGURES 6, 7, 8 and 9 also provides for the release of the firing pin and hammer safety mecha nism. Thus, movement of trigger 10 to pull single action bar 51 forward also pulls double action bar 15 forward and provides for engagement of actuator 122 by camming surface 27 to thereby cam hammer safety block 113 downwardly. Returning to the description in FIGURES 10 and 11, when the cartridge is detonated, the force of the detonation drives the slide toward the rear of the gun and allows for cocking of hammer 100. However, it should be understood that to allow for cocking of hammer 100, abutment 64 must be removed from engagement by hook 65 to allow sear 62 to pivot and to allow for engagement of surface 61 by abutment 64. As the slide of the gun moves toward the rear of the gun, end 52 of the single action bar 51 is forced downwardly by the camming of the slide with slide camming abutment 66. The slide moves in groove 67 and forces end 52 of single action bar 51 downwardly to release abutment 64. Once the slide is returned, end 52 is biased upwardly to provide for engagement of abutment 64 by hook 65.Pin 68 allows for attachment of a biasing spring which urges the end 52 of single action bar 51 upwardly as shown in FIGURES 10 and 11. This can be done by a spring which is affixed to frame 18 and which is not shown in FIGURES 10 and 11. At this point, the gun is in condition for firing of an additional cartridge. It should be appreciated that the double action bar 15 and the single action bar 51 are relatively easy to manufacture. Because of their relatively simple construction, the double action bar 15 and the single action bar 51 do not require close tolerance machining. FIGURES 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16 show a mechanism for forcing the hammer from the cocked position to a position wherein the hammer strikes the firing pin. This mechanism, commonly termed a hammer actuator, imparts rotational momentum to the hammer so that the force of the hammer is sufficient to detonate the cartridge in the gun. Referring to FIGURE 12, hammer 100 is pivotal about axis 101 between a withdrawn position, that is, a cocked position, and a position where hammer 100 impacts the firing pin.FIGURE 12 shows hammer 100 in a position where hammer 100 has impacted the firing pin. The force for moving hammer 100 forward is provided via connecting rod 150.One end of connecting rod is pivotal about axis 151 position in hammer 100. Axis 151 is spaced from axis 101 to provide for pivotal movement of hammer 100 about axis 101 in response to the movement of connecting rod 150. Referring to FIGURES 12 and 13 simultaneously, the second end of connecting rod 150 is retained within a groove 164 in hammer actuator shoe 152. Connecting rod 150 is retained within groove 164 by connecting pin 153, connecting rod 150 being pivotal with respect to connecting pin 153. Connecting rod 150 has a curved shape and forces rotation of the hammer from the cocked position in a counter clockwise direction to the position of the hammer shown in FIGURE 12. Referring to FIGURES 12, 13 and 14, the frame 154 provides a generally U shaped guide 155 having walls 156 and floor 157. Guide 155 is an integral part of the frame of the gun. Walls 156 extends at right angles with respect to floor 157. Hammer actuator shoe 152 has a generally rectangularly shaped body 162, the body being shaped and positioned within guide 155 to provide for a small clearance between body 162 and walls 156 and floor 157 of guide 155. Hammer actuator shoe 152 is slidable with respect to the guide 155. A particularly important aspect of the hammer actuator according to the present invention is the provision of ball bearing mechanism which reduces the friction between hammer actuator shoe 152 and guide 155. As shown in FIGURES 12, 13 and 14, two edges of body 162 include ball bearing retaining recesses 165. Each recess 165 receives and retains a plurality of bearing balls 166. Recesses 165 extend only a portion of the length of body 162 so that body 162 defines retaining walls 177. Retaining walls 177 prevent bearing balls 166 from sliding out of recesses 165, but, allow for rotation of bearing balls 166. Recesses 165 have a depth less than the diameter of bearing balls 166 so that the surfaces of bearing balls 166 contact walls 156 and floor 157. As shown in FIGURES 13 and 14, the body 162 of hammer actuator shoe 152 is completely out of contact with U shaped guide 155. Thus, the only friction surfaces are between bearing balls 166 and walls 156 and floor 157, and, between bearing balls 166 and bearing ball recesses 165. The manner in which the hammer actuator shoe is forced upwardly to impart forward rotation to hammer 100 will now be described. Referring to FIGURES 12, 13 and 14, one end of hammer actuator shoe 152 includes an elongated cavity 163. Guide rod 158 and spring 169 are positioned within cavity 163 and guide rod 158 is slidable with respect to cavity 163. It should be understood that cavity 163 is of sufficient depth to maintain guide rod 158 within cavity 163 during the operation of the hammer actuator mechanism. Thus, rod 158 is located within cavity 163 both in the cocked position of hammer 100 and the position wherein hammer 100 has impacted the firing pin. Guide rod 158 and spring 169 are anchored in the lower position of the frame. The anchor mechanism will be described with respect to FIGURES 12, 15,and 16. Anchor 170 has a generally rectangular cross section and fits snugly within guide 155 of the frame. One end of anchor 170 includes a transverse cylindrical hold 171 which receives pin 160. Pin 160 is mounted in frame 154 and secures anchor 170 to frame 154 of the gun. Cylindrical chamber 172 extends downwardly into the interior of anchor 170 and receives guide rod 158 and spring 169. The end of chamber 172 forms a spring retaining wall 173. Rod 158 at its lower e.nd has a generally cylindrical shape and is crimped a small distance from the end of rod 154 to provide flange 174 which protrudes radially outwardly from the rod a greater distance than the diameter of rod 158.Flange 174 may be formed by simply clamping rod 158 between a viselike device which deforms the metal rod and provides two generally flat surfaces 175 and protruding flange 174. As shown in FIGURE 15, chamber 171 includes an elongated aperture 176 on both sides thereof, only one aperture 176 being shown in FIGURE 15. Protruding flange 174 is received by aperture 176 and rod 158 is prevented from rotating within cavity 172. As shown in FIGURE 12, pin 153, which retains connecting rod 150 within groove 164, is positioned at a point intermediate the upper and lower ends of hammer actuator shoe 152. Rod 150 is forced upwardly and to the right toward the hammer 100 by spring 169. An equal and opposite force urges the hammer actuator shoe 150 toward guide 155.Thus, at any time during operation of the hammer actuator, bearing balls 166 are maintained in contact with guide 155. In the position shown in FIGURE 12, the gun has been fired and hammer 100 has impacted the firing pin.Spring 169 is compressed a relatively small amount. In order to fire the gun again, hammer 100 is withdrawn, that is, hammer 100 is rotated clockwise from the position shown in FIGURE 12. Hammer actuator shoe 152 moves downwardly and spring 169 is compressed. When hammer 100 is released, the compressed spring 169 urges hammer actuator shoe 152 upwardly. The hammer is forced in a counter clockwise direction and impacts the firing pin. The ball bearing hammer actuator of the present invention allows the hammer to fall quickly, that is, the time between the release of a hammer and the time at which the hammer impacts the firing pin is reduced. Also, when the gun is fired from the rest position, that is, a position wherein the hammer is in its upright position as shown in FIGURE 12, the force necessary to pull the trigger toward the rear of the gun is reduced by the ball bea ring actuator described above. Referring to FIGURE 6 and 9, in order to withdraw the hammer by use of the double action system, trigger 11 is pulled toward the rear of the gun. Hammer 100 is withdrawn from the position shown in FIGURE 6 to the position shown in FIGURE 9. The finger force necessary to pull trigger 11 toward the rear of the gun is reduced by the ball bearing actuator of the present invention. Because of this reduced force, the gun may be shot more accurately. Also, when the hammer is cocked manually, the ball bearing actuator of the present invention allows for cocking of the hammer with a reduced force. y The barrel locating structure is shown in FIGURES 17 and 18. FIGURE 17 shows a side view of a barrel when the gun is in its firing position, that is, a position just prior to the detonation of a cartridge positioned within the barrel. Gun barrel 300 has a generally cylindrical shape and a longitudinal axis 301. The front end 302 of barrel 300 is positioned within a bushing 303. Bushing 303 defines a cylindrical internal surface 304. The rear end 305 of the barrel includes a first lock protrusion 306 which has a generally annular shape and which extends a predetermined distance from the barrel.Lock protrusion 306 mates which a recess 307 in the slide of the gun. The rear end 305 of barrel 300 includes a second lock protrusion 308 which similarly mates with detent 309 provided on the slide of the gun.The rear end 305 of the gun also includes a downwardly protruding camming lug 310 which includes aperture 311 defining camming surfaces 312 and 313. Takedown assembly pin 211 firs within the aperture 311 see FIGURES 1, 3, 4 and 5 and the attendant description . Aperture 311 defines a first camming surface 312 which receives takedown assembly pin 211 when the gun is in the firing position. Aperture 311 also defines a second camming surface 313 which receives the takedown assembly pin 211 when the barrel has recoiled as shown in FIGURE 18. The particularly novel construction of the barrel locating structure of the present invention can be seen by referring to the front 302 of the barrel. Axis 314 is transverse to the longitudinal axis 301 of barrel 300.The intersection of axis 301 with axis 314 defines a pivot point 315. The barrel pivots about a line which is perpendicular to both axis 301 and axis 314 and which intersects point 315. As stated earlier, the barrel 300 has a generally cylindrical shape. However, the front end 302 of barrel 300 has been machined to provide a cross section which is no longer cylindrical. The shape of the front 302 of barrel 300 may be best understood by reference to FIGURES 19A and 19B which illustrate the method by which the barrel is made. Barrel 300 has a generally cylindrical shape and includes at one end thereof, a raised land area 325. Land area 325 has a cylindrical cross section, the cylindrical cross section preferably being provided by the grinding of land portion 325 by grinding surface 326 of tool 327. As shown on FIGURE 19A , as tool 327 is rotated, grinding surface 326 contacts land area 325. Because grinding surface 326 extends in generally parallel relation to the longitudinal axis 301 of barrel 300, land surface 325 has a cylindrical shape. It should be understood that grinding surface 326 is rotated as shown by arrow A about the longitudinal axis of the grinding tool. Also, the entire grinding tool 327 is rotated as shown by arrow B about point 315.After at least one complete rotation of the entire grinding tool, a cylindrical land surface 325 is provided. During grinding the barrel remains stationary. The tool is then withdrawn to the left from the position shown in FIGURE 19A. In order to machine front 302 of the barrel, the bar rel is tilted with respect to grinding surface 326. The barrel is tilted about a line which is perpendicular to both axis 301 and axis 314 and which intersects point 315.It should be understood that FIGURE 19B grossly exaggerate the tilt of axis 301 with respect to grinding surface 326 in order to explain the method of grinding the barrel. AS shown in FIGURE 19B, the tilt angle, 0 is preferably 1 degree, 3 minutes. When the longitudinal axis of the barrel has been tilted with respect to grinding tool surface 326, the grinding tool 327 is moved from the withdrawn position to the position shown in FIGURE 19B. The grinding surface and the grinding tool are rotated as shown by arrows A and B to grind away a portion of land surface 325 to provide surfaces 317 and 318. Surfaces 319 and 320 remain cylindrical with respect to longitudinal axis 301.It should be understood that the portion of land area between transverse axis 314 and land areas 317 and 318 is extremely small, and when 0 equals 1 degree, 3 minutes, the surface area of these portions is negligible. It is only with the exaggerated view shown in FIGURE 19B that these areas appear significantly large. The method of machining the barrel is particularly simple and provides for precision machining of the barrel.During the grinding of land area 325 as shown in FIGURE 19A and during the grinding of areas 317 and 318 as shown in FIGURE 19B, the barrel 300 is stationary. Since tool 327 may be rotated about arrow B with great precision, a barrel having precise dimensions is provided. When the gun is in the firing position as shown inFIGURE 17, surface 317 which is angled with respect to longitudinal axis 301 of the barrel and which is positioned to the rear of transverse axis 314 engages the cylindrical interior wall of bushing 303. Surface 318 which is located to the front of transverse axis 314 and which is angled with respect to longitudinal axis 301 also engages the cylindrical interior wall of bushing 303. Thus in the firing position, the front end 302 of barrel 300 is firmly maintained in place by the engagement of surfaces 317 and 318 on barrel 300 with the cylindrical interior wall of bushing 303. Surfaces 319 and 320 which are cylindrical with respect to longitudinal axis 301 of barrel 300 are spaced a slight distance from the cylindrical interior wall of bushing 303. When the gun is fired, the cartridge detonates and discharges the bullet from barrel 300. The detonation force recoils the barrel 300 the bushing 303 and the slide toward the rear of the gun. It should be understood, however, that takedown pin 211 is mounted within the frame assembly, as opposed to the slide assembly, and is stationary. Thus, as the barrel 300, bushing 303 recoils toward the rear of the gun, pin 211 comes into contact with camming surface 313. At the point in time when pin 211 comes into contact with surface 313, the barrel is still engaged by the slide. That is, annular protrusion 305 is positioned within recess 307 and annular protrusion 305 is positioned within recess 308. Also, surfaces 317 and 318 on barrel 300 are engaged with the cylindrical interior wall 304 of bushing 303. When pin 211 contacts the front portion of surface 313, the barrel 300 can no longer recoil or move any farther. Pin 211 engages camming surface 313 and forces the barrel downwardly to the position shown in FIGURE 18. At this point in time, surfaces 317 and 318 have disengaged from the interior cylindrical wall of bushing 303 and surfaces 319 and 320, which are cylindrical with respect to longitudinal axis 301, become engaged with the interior cylindrical wall 304 of bushing 303. However, since the slide is not under the restraint of pin 211, the slide continues to move toward the rear of the gun. In the position shown in FIGURE 18, the barrel has been moved downwardly so that the longitudinal axis 301 of barrel 300 coincides with the longitudinal axis of the cylindrical interior surface of the bushing. Axis 301 of barrel is now in a horizontal position. When barrel 300 is cammed downwardly to the horizontal position, annular protrusion 306 disengages recess 307 and protrusion 308 disengages recess 309 to allow the slide to recoil further toward the rear of the gun to a position shown in FIGURE 18. FIGURE 18 shows the gun in a position subsequent to the firing of the gun. More particularly, as shown in FIGURE 18, the barrel 300, the bushing 303 and the slide have recoiled under the detonation force of the cartridge. The rear end of barrel 300 has been cammed downwardly and out of engagement with the slide of the gun and the slide has recoiled a slight distance further. When the slide has moved with respect to the barrel a sufficient amount for the cartridge to be ejected from the barrel, a drive spring in the slide assembly forces the barrel 300, the slide and bushing forward. When the front end 302 of barrel 300 is positioned within bushing 303, the rear of camming surface 313 contacts pin 211 and forces the barrel 300 to pivot upwardly to a position wherein annular protrusion 306 is located within recess 307 and annular protrusion 308 is located within recess 309. During the pivoting movement, surfaces 319 and 320, which are cylindrical with respect to longitudinal axis 301 of barrel 300, disengage the cylindrical interior wall of bushing 303. When the pivoting is completed, surfaces 317 and 318, which are angled with respect to the longitudinal axis 301 of barrel 300, engage the interior cylindrical wall of bushing 303.Thus, the barrel locating structure returns to the firing position shown in FIGURE 17. Referring to FIGURES 17, 18 and 19b, it should be understood that the magnitude of machining angle, 0, is dependent on numerous factors such as the length of the barrel and the position of the barrel engagement means on the interior of the slide. For a relatively long barrel, 0 would be decreased and for a relatively short barrel, 0 would be increased. Thus, the magnitude of 0 will vary depending on the design of a particular gun. The safety mechanism for the firing pin and the hammer will be described with respect to FIGURES 20 and 21. FIGURE 20 shows the safety mechanism in the locked position wherein the safety pin is prevented from moving forward to strike the cartridge and the hammer is prevented from striking the firing pin.FIGURE 21 shows the safety mechanism in the position wherein the hammer has struck the firing pin and the firing pin has moved forward to strike and detonate. Referring to FIGURES 20 and 21 simultaneously, hammer 100 is pivotal about first major rear axis 101. Hammer 100 includes an abutment 102 which protrudes from one side of the hammer at a position intermediate the strike surface 103 and the pivot 101. The firing pin may be of the type described hereinafter in the application or the firing pin may be of a conventional type which includes a main body 104 and a cartridge striking pin 105. The main body or rear of the firing pin 104 includes at the bottom thereof an aperture 106 which defines a stop surface 107. Firing pin safety lever 108 has a generally elongated shape and is pivotal at one end 109 about pin 110, pin 110 being mounted in the slide assembly of the gun. Firing pin safety lever 108 is urged or biased downwardly by spring 111. Spring 111 is positioned within a dead hole 149 in the slide.Lever 108 also includes an end portion 112 which is received by aperture 106 and which contacts stop surface 107 to prevent forward movement of the firing pin 104 when end portion 112 of lever 108 is engaged in aperture 106. Hammer safety block 113 includes a generally elongated body 114 having one end defining a camming surface 115 which contacts end 112 of lever 108. The other end 116 of hammer safety block 113 includes a camming pin 117 protruding from one side thereof. Furthermore, the hammer safety block 113 includes an elongated guide hole 118 which receives major rear axis 119 of the gun. Block 113 also includes a spring retaining hole 148. Biasing spring 120 is postioned within hole 148 and between axis 119 and spring retaining pin 147. The function of spring 120 is to urge the hammer safety block 113 upwardly to thereby urge lever 108 into aperture 106 of firing pin 104. It should be understood that spring 120 is stronger in biasing effect than spring 111, so that the force of spring 120 overcomes the force of spring 111.Protruding from the side of hammer safety block 113 adjacent hammer 100 is an abutment 121 which prevents hammer 100 from striking the firing pin. The mechanism for moving the hammer safety block 113 downwardly will not be described. The hammer safety block actuator or bir 122 includes elongated camming surface 123 which engages camming pin 117 to provide for downward movement of hammer safety block 113, Camming surface 123 is positioned on one end of actuator 122, the other end 124 of actuator 122 providing a surface 125 which abuts a portion of the frame assembly 126 to thereby prevent rotation of the actuator 122 any further than the position shown in FIGURE 20. Actuator 122 is pivotal about third major rear axis 127, axis 127 being mounted in the frame assembly of the gun. The firing pin and hammer safety mechanism functions as follows. In the position shown in FIGURE 20, the pin 104 and the hammer 103 are in the rest position and forward movement of the firing pin and the contracting of the firing pin 104 by hammer 100 is prevented. In order to move safety block 114 downwardly, actuator 112 must be rotated counterclockwise. This is provided for by a camming abutment and the double action bar being deleted from FIGURE 1 for simplicity. However, it should be understood that as the trigger of the gun is pulled towards the firing position, a cam abuts actuator at camming surface 128 to move the actuator 122 in a counterclockwise direction. The rotation of actuator 122 is described with respect to FIGURES 6 9. Pin 117 is forced downwardly by actuator 122 and slides with respect to camming surface 123 to thereby move the hammer safety block 113 downwardly toward the position shown in FIGURE 21. Hammer safety block 113 includes at one side thereof, a flat surface 146. Surface 146 abuts and slides with respect to wall 157. When the hammer is released by mechanisms described herein, the hammer moves forward and abutment 102 of hammer 103 moves past abutment 121 of hammer safety block 113 thereby allowing strike surface 103 to contact firing pin 104. As a result of the hammer safety block 113 being urged downwardly by actuator 122, end of lever 108 is urged out of aperture 1C6 by spring 111. The firing pin is now capable of moving forward in response to a strike by hammer 100. It should be understood that wall 157 extends the entire height of the frame of the gun and is integral with the frame of the gun. As described with respect toFIGURES 12, 13, 14 and 15, wall 157 is the same wall that ball bearingsl66 of hammer actuator shoe 152 slide with respect to. FIGURE 22 shows a sectional side view of the slide assembly. The rear portion of the slide includes an aperture 401 which receives the manual safety 350, the manual safety being shown in FIGURES 26 and 27. Slide 400 also includes an elongated firing pin chamber 402 which receives firing pin 104, the firing pin being shown in FIGURE 23.Firing pin chamber 402 also receives a firing pin spring which is not shown in the drawings but which junctions to bias the firing pin 104 away from the cartridge. Immediately beneath the firing pin chamber 402 is a firing pin safety lever chamber 403 which receives firing pin safety lever 108, firing pin safety lever 108 being shown inFIGURES 20 and 21. Chamber 403 further includes a pin receiving aperture 404 which is adapted to receive pin 110 of the firing pin safety lever 108. To the right of aperture 404 is a spring retaining chamber 149, this chamber also being shown in FIGURES 20 and 21. The slide 400 also includes an elongated rail 405 which defines an elongated slide recess 406. Elongated slide recess 406 receives a slide rail 67 in the frame assembly and slide rail 67 in the frame assembly slides with respect to slide rail 405 Slide rail 67 is shown in FIGURES 10 and 11 .Immediately above slide recess 406 is hammer safety block receiving recess 407. Hammer safety block receiving recess receives the upper portion of the hammer safety block 113 when the gun is in the rest position FIGURES 20 and 21 show the hammer safety block 113 . When the gun has been fired, the hammer safety block is withdrawn from recess 407. Slide 400 also includes a cartridge case ejection port 408 which allows for ejection of the cartridge case from a fired cartridge. Annular recesses 307 and 309 are the same recesses shown in FIGURES 17 and 18. The front end of slide 400 includes an annular bushing receiving chamber 409 which receives and retains bushing 303. More specifically, annular recess 409 receives a locking protrusion 410 which protrudes from the side of the bushing. The front end 411 of bushing 303 fits within a second annular recess 412 and protrudes a short distance from the front end of slide 400. Bushing 303 includes an internal cylindrical wall 304, wall 304 being described in great detail with respect to FIGURES 17 and 18. Cylindrical internal wall 304 flares outwardly to form a conical wall 413. It should be understood that conical wall 413 provides clearance for the rear portion of the barrel when the rear portion of the barrel is tilted upwardly by a small angle. Bushing 303 includes a lower ring portion 414 which is integral with the main portion of the bushing. Ring portion 414 receives a spring guide bushing 415 which is generally cylindrical in shape and includes a bushing retaining annular wall 416. Bushing 415 defines an internal cylindrical wall 417.Spring guide rod 418 fits within bushing 415 and is slidable in relation to wall 417. Spring 419 is positioned to the exterior of bushing 415 and serves to urge spring guide rod 418 toward the rear of the gun. The second end of rod 418 includes an annular spring retaining protrusion 420 which retains spring 419. Lug portion 310 of barrel 300 provides a stop surface for end portion 420 of rod 418. Referring simultaneously to FIGURE 22 and FIGURES 17 and 18, when the gun has been fired, the detonation force of the cartridge forces slide 400 toward the rear of the frame assembly. Rail 405 slides with respect to rail 67 on the frame assembly. The detonation force which drives slide 400 toward the rear of the gun provides sufficient force to compress spring 419. As spring 419 is compressed, rod 418 is driven through bushing 415 and protrudes a predetermined distance from bushing 415. When the slide reaches the most rearward position, spring 419 is in its most compressed condition. Spring 419 urges the slide forward. As slide 400 moves forward, barrel 300 is still in a horizontal position. Slide 400 reaches a point where camming surface 421 and slide 400 abut camming protrusion 422 on the rear portion of barrel 300.Camming surface 421 urges the barrel upwardly so that annular recesses 307 and 309 engage the annular protrusions on the barrel. Spring 419 urges the barrel 300 and the slide 400 to the firing position shown in FIGURE 17. The gun is now in a position to be fired once again. The segmented firing pin will now be described. Referring to FIGURE 23, the firing pin includes a body 36 having a generally elongated shape defining a first end 37 which is impacted by the hammer. Body 36 includes a second end 38, end 38 providing cavity 39 which has a generally cylindrical shape. The interior rear surface 49 defines an arcuately shaped seat 48. Detonation pin 41 has a generally elongated shape and has a smaller cross section than body 36. One end 42 of the detonation pin strikes the cartridge and a second end 43 of the firing pin is positioned within cavity 39. The second end of detonation pin 41 terminates in a ball 44. Ball 44 is preferably spherically shaped and seats in arcuately shape seat 49 of cavity 39.Body 36 includes a hole 45 which is transverse to the longitudinal axis of the pin and which extends through the walls on either side of the cavity 39. Ball 44 includes an aperture which receives pin 46, pin 46 being positioned within hole 45 and retaining detonation pin 41 within cavity 39. The diameter of pin 46 is preferably smaller than the diameter of hole 45 to allow for greater machining tolerances.The front surface of pin 46 preferably contacts the front interior wall of hole 45 to reduce or prevent detonation pin 41 from sliding with respect to body 36. However, detonation pin 41 is pivotal through a small angle about pin 46. As shown by the dashed line having double thickness, ball 44 is in contact with arcuately shaped seat 49. When end 37 of the firing pin is contacted by the hammer, the force of the hammer is transmitted to ball 44 of detonation pin 41 via seat 49. Stresses between body 36 and detonation pin 41 are accommodated by the slight pivotal movement of detonation pin 41. FIGURE 24 shows a view of the right side of the gun.Lock bolt 204 has been removed from the gun to expose double action bar 15. Furthermore, in the upper portion ofFIGURE 19, lock bolt 204 has been turned over to expose the under side of lock bolt 204. FIGURE 29 shows ejector 453 which is retained within the interior of the gun by pin 119. Ejector 453 includes a cartridge ejector protrusion 456 which protrudes above the frame assembly into the slide assembly. When the gun is fired and the slide moves toward the rear of the gun, ejector protrusion 456 contacts the discharged case and ejects it from the gun through aperture 408 aperture 408 is shown in FIGURE 22. Referring simultaneously to FIGURES 28 and 24, ejector 453 includes an elongated U shaped groove 457 which receives sear separator 354. Sear separator 354 is slidable withinU shaped groove 457. Thus, ejector 453 not only serves to eject a discharged case from the gun, but also, functions to guide sear separator 354. Returning to FIGURE 25, the interior portion of lock bolt 204 includes an elongated recess 458, recess 458 receiving double action bar 15 and providing a clearance for double action bar 15 to move within recess 458. However, recess 458 also serves as a safety lock for double action bar 15. When the lock bolt 204 is moved toward the rear of the gun, interior surface 459 of recess 458 engages the upper surface 460 of single action bar 15. Thus, when lock bolt 204 is in a position where the take down pin can be withdrawn from the gun, the gun cannot be fired by the double action mechanism because double action bar 15 is prevented from moving. Referring to FIGURE 25, a left side view of the gun is shown. Slide stop 509 is pivotally mounted on the gun about axis 513 and includes camming surface 514.Slide stop 513 is urged downwardly by pin 515 which is mounted in a hole 516 in the single action bar cover 510.Single action bar cover 510 is secured to the frame by pin 101 and pin 516. Hole 516 includes a spring which urges pin 515 toward engagement with surface 514 on slide stop 509. Thus, in its normal position, slide stop 509 is in a horizontal position and out of engagement with slide 400. The slide stop includes a protruding finger which protrudes through the frame wall into the magazine cavity. After the last cartridge has been fired, a conventional magazine follower engages the protruding finger of the slide stop and urges the slide upwardly.The protruding finger overcomes the bias on pin 515 and pivots slide stop 509 in a counterclockwise direction from the position shown in FIGURE 25. When slide stop 509 is rotated upwardly, the end 517 engages in a recess in the slide assembly. Thus, when the magazine is empty and the last bullet is fired from the gun, the slide does not recoil. Referring to FIGURES 26 and 27, the manual safety for the gun of the present invention is shown. FIGURE 26 shows the gun in the manual safety off position and wherein the hammer is in the cocked position. FIGURE 27 shows the gun in the manual safety position wherein the hammer COI1 tacts the manual safety and is prevented from impacting the firing pin. Referring to FIGURE 26, hammer 100 is in the cocked position wherein abutment 64 engages surface 61 of hammer 100.For a more detailed description of the cocking of the hammer and the manner by which the hammer is released, FIGURES 10 and 11 and the attendant desfription may be referred to.In the position shown in FIGURE 26, when abutment 64 is moved out of engagement with surface 61, hammer 100 moves in a counter clockwise direction and eventually impacts the firing pin. Manual safety block 350 includes a recess 351 which is aligned in the vertical direction and which accommodates the striking surface 103 of hammer 100 thereby allowing the striking surface 103 to impact the firing pin. It is desirable to provide a mechanism by which the hammer 100 can be moved from the cocked position shown inFIGURE 26 to a safe position wherein the hammer is no longer cocked but where the hammer is prevented from impacting the firing pin. Restated, it is desirable to be able to release the hammer from the cocked position without allowing the hammer to impact the firing pin. As shown in FIGURE 26, manual safety block 350 includes a recess 352 which defines a camming surface 353. The manual safety also includes a sear separator 354.The function of sear separator 354 is to move sear 62 from the position shown in FIGURE 26 in a counter clockwise direction to the position shown in FIGURE 27. Sear separator 354 has a generally rectangular body and is slidable in relation to pin 119. Sear separator includes an elongated guide slot 355 which receives pin 119. The lower end of sear separator 354 includes a camming nib 356. The upper region of sear 62 includes a recess 357 defining a camming lipw 358. In the position shown in FIGURE 26 sear separator 354 is biased upwardly and away from lip 358 and recess 357. In order to move the hammer 100 from the cocked position shown in FIGURE 26 to a safe position as shown in FIGURE 27, sear separator 354 must be moved downwardly. Manual safety 350 can be rotated by means of a manual safety rotating lever 359 lever 359 being shown in FIGURE 2 . From the position shown in FIGURE 26, manual safety 350 is rotated in a counter clockwise direction. Before camming surface 353 contacts sear separator 354, recess 351 is rotated out of alignment with hammer 100 so that if the hammer should fall accidentally, hammer 100 will be prevented from impacting the firing pin. As manual safety 350 is rotated a small degree further, camming surface 353 engages the upper portion of sear separator 354 and overcomes the upward bias on sear separator 354.Sear separator 354 is moved downwardly to the position shown in FIGURE 27. As sear separator 354 is moved downwardly, camming nib 356 engages lip 358 and forces rotation of sear 62 in a counterclockwise direction. As the sear separator 354 is moved downwardly, camming nib 356 is received by recess 357. When sear 62 has been rotated counterclockwise a sufficient distance to disengage abutment 64 with surface 61, hammer 100 falls. However, it should be understood that since recess 351 has been moved out of alignment with hammer 100, when the hammer 100 falls, it contacts manual safety 350 and is prevented from impacting the firing pin. The manual safety may also be used to lock the gun when the gun is in the rest position. Referring to FIGURE 6, the gun is shown in the rest position. In order to lock the gun, the manual safety 350 is rotated. Rotation of the manual safety will cause recess 351 to move out of alignement with hammer 100. The manual safety 350 will force the hammer to rotate a small distance in a direction away from the firing pin. Thus, as shown in FIGURE 6, hammer would be rotated in a counterclockwise direction a small distance so that the abutment 102 on hammer 100 no longer contacts the abutment 121 on hammer safety block 114. When the manual safety is in the on position as shown in FIGURE 27, the gun may be unlocked by rotating manual safety 350 in a clockwise direction. Clockwise rotation of the manual safety 350 aligns recess 351 with hammer 100 and allows the hammer to rotate a slight disance in the counterclockwise direction. The hammer is prevented from impacting the firing pin because the abutment 102 on the hammer 100 is aligned and contacts the abutment 121 on the hammer safety block 114 to prevent the strike surface 103 of hammer 100 from impacting the firing pin abutments 102 and 121 are shown in FIGURES 20, 21 and 6 . FIGURE 28 shows an exploded view of some of t ffldrz 44 important parts of the frame assembly of the gun. It should be noted that only a portion of the frame of the gun has been shown so as to provide an unobstructed view of the internal parts of the gun. The left wall 450 and the right wall 451 of the gun are shown schematically. A space 452 is defined by wall 450 and wall 451, space 452 accommodating the internal parts of the gun. In order to appreciate the simplicity of the construction of the gun of the present invention, it is important to note that the internal parts of the gun function with respect to four major axes axis I, axis II, axis III and axis IV. Another important reference in the gun is wall 157 which extends between and is integral with left wall 450 and the right wall 451 of the gun. Wall 157 is best shown in FIGURE 12. Walls 450 and 451 include a plurality of holes which receive pins 127, 119, 101 and 12, these pins being stationary with respect to wall 450 and wall 451 the holes in walls 450 and 451 are not shown . Pin 127 has number of functions pin 127 functions as an axis about which ter sear 62 rotates. Pin 127 also functions as an axis about which hammer safety block actuator 122 rotates. Pin 101 functions as an axis about whcih hammer 100 rotates and also protrudes a sufficient amount from right wall 451 to provide aretaining pin for elongated hole 205 of lock bolt 204. Pin 119 functions as a stop pin for sear separator 354 and as a guide pin for hammer safety block 113. Pin 119 is also retaining pin for ejector 453. Pin 12 functions as an axis about which trigger 10 pivots. Wall 157 also plays an important role in locating the internal parts of the gun. Wall 157 provides a stop surface which prevents rotation of sear 62 more than a predetermined amount. Surface 157 also maintains ejector 453 in a stationa ry position because it contacts wall 454 of the ejector. Thus, the ejector 453 is prevented from rotating about pin 119 by the contact between wall 157 and wall 154. Wall 157 also provides a slide surface for hammer safety block 113. Wall 157 provides a stop surface for hammer safety block actuator 122. Although the hammer actuator is not shown in FIGURE 28, it should be appreciated that wall 157 provides a slide surface for a ball bearings 166 of hammer actuator shoe 152. The walls of the frame, that is, walls 450 and 451, are the same as walls 156 of U shaped guide 155 Refer to FIGURES 12,13, 14, 15 and 16 for a description of the hammer actuator . Thus, as can be appreciated from the exploded view shown in FIGURE 28, the gun of the present invention is particularly simple the important internal parts of the gun may be located by axis I, axis II, axis II and axis IV, the left wall 450, the right wall 451 and the internal wall 157.