# Process for removing an n formyl group.

## Abstract
An L aspartyl L phenylalanine lower alkyl ester of which the amino group of the aspartyl residue is protected with a formyl group can be deformylated under selected condi tions, i.e. in a strong acid, having a specific normality range at a specific elevated temperature range, and the splitting of the formyl group from the aspartyl moiety amino group can be effected selectively and efficiently in a short time e.g. as short as 15 seconds to 60 minutes , while the splitting of the ester bond or the peptide bond is suppressed. The defor mylation is useful in the production of α L aspartyl L phenylalanine methyl ester, a dipeptide sweetener.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for removing the No 1 group from an L aspartyl L phenylalanine lower alkyl e er of which the amino group of the aspartyl moiety is otected by the formyl group, which process comprIses heating at a temperature in the range from 700C to so 0C said ester in a strong acid having a normality in the range from 0.5 to 3, the lower alkyl radical having not more than 3 carbon atoms. 2. A process according to Claim 1, herein the heating is effected for a period in the range from 15 seconds to 60 minutes. 3. A process according to any prec ding claim, wherein the heating is effected in the absence of any alcoholic reaction medium. 4. A process according to any preceding claim, wherein said ester is N formyl a L asparty L phenylalanine lower alkyl ester. 5. A process according to any preceding claim, wherein said ester is N formyl alpha L aspartyl L phenylalanine methyl ester.

## Description
PROCESS FOR REMOVING AN N FORMYL GROUP This invention relates to a process for removing an N formyl group, which may be referred to as 1For1 hereinafter more specifically the present invention relates to a deformylation process comprising removing the formyl group efficiently and selectively from an Laspartyl L phenylalanine lower alkyl ester of which the amino group is protected by a formyl group, i.e. an N formyl L aspartyl L phenylalanine lower alkyl ester.The For protected compound has one or other of the following general formulae, depending on whether the aspartyl moiety is a or ss, and may be referred to as For APR hereinafter EMI1.1 wherein R represents a lower alkyl radical, preferably one having up to 3 carbon atoms, i.e. a methyl, ethyl, n propyl or iso propyl radical. The present invention provides a useful means of synthesizing dipeptide sweeteners and more specifically an efficient process for removing the For from an N formyla L aspartyl L phenylalanine lower alkyl ester, which is sometimes referred to as tFor afAPR hereinafter. Incidentally, a For APR maybe easily produced by condensation between an N formyl L asbartic acid anhbdrive and an L phenylalanine lower alkyl ester which is sometimes referred to as PheOR1 hereinafter , as an intermediate for synthesis of an a L aspartyl L phenylalanine lower alkyl ester, which is sometimes referred to as a APR hereinafter as disclosed inJapanese Patent Application kokai No. 23,001 1977, corresponding to United States Patent No. 4,071,511 . An N formyl group, i.e. a formyl group protecting an amino group, has heretofore been removed with, for example, the use of dilute hydrochloric acid, hydrogen peroxide G.Losse et al., Anr. Chem., 636,140 1960 , hydrazine P. Lefrancier et al., Bull. Soc. Chim.France, 1965, 3668 , aniline R. Geiger et al.,Chem. Ber., 102, 2487 1969 or hydroxylamine R.Geiger Chem. Ber., 101, 3386 1968 , or by catalytic reduction G. Losse et al., J. Prakt. Chem., 24, 118 1964 . Among these processes for deformylation, the one where dilute hydrochloric acid is used is easy to operate as well as inexpensive and, accordingly, a commercially attractive technique. The dilute hydrochloric acid deformylation is usually carried out, as follows. In connection with simple compounds such as N formyl amino acids, an acidic hydrolysis is effected by heating the compound to be deformylated with dilute hydrochloric acid V. du Vigneaud et al. J. Biol. Chem., 98, 577 1932 , whereas, in connection with N formyl peptides, an acidic alcoholic hydrolysis is effected wherein the compound to be deformylated is allowed to stand in a methanolic hydrochloric acid having a normality of not more than 0.5 at room temperature for 48 hours, the mild conditions being employed to prevent the peptide bond from splitting J.C. Sheehan et al. J. Am. Chem.Soc., 80, 1158 1958 . In connection with N formyl peptides, like aFor a APR, which have both an ester group and a free carboxyl group in addition to an amino group protected with a formyl group, the ester and peptide bonds are also hydrolyzed if deformylation is carried out by the acidic hydrolysis, whereas the free carboxyl group is esterified if deformylation is carried out by the acidic alcoholic hydrolysis. The latter hydrolysis is also commercially djsadvantageous because of the long period of time required for hydrolytic deformylation, e.g. as long as 48 hours Japanese patent application kokoku No. 17,727 1979, corresponding to United StatesPatent No. .3,879,372 . The inventors of the present invention have already proposed some improvements in the deformylation whereby such difficulties are overcome to some extent, e.g. the hydroxylamine strong acid addition salt method Japanese patent application kokai No. 68,520 1976, corresponding to United States Patent No. 4,024,418 and the aqueous organic solvent strong acid. mixture Japanese patent application kokai No. 23,001 1977, referred to hereinabove . These known methods are, however, still not as commercially advantageous as desired in that hydroxylamine is required for the former and an organic solvent is required forth latter. According to the present invention, there is provided a process for removing the N formyl group from an L aspartyl L phenylalanine lower alkyl ester of which the amino group of the aspartyl moiety is protected by the formyl group, which process comprises heating said ester in a strong acid having a normality in the rage from 0.5 to 3 at a temperature in the range from 70 C to 15O0C. ore particularly, the inventors have found that, if a For a APR is heated in a 0.5 3 N strong acid at 70 1500C, deformylation takes place selectively and is completed in a short period of time such as 15 seconds 60 minutes, with side reactions such as hydrolysis of the ester or peptide bond being suppressed. This in ration has been made on the basis of these findings. It has been found, as established by the results of their study of the deformylation being carried out under various reaction conditions, that the deformylation is remarkably affected by the acids used, their concentration, the reaction temperature and the reaction period. In the event that the acid concentration is too low, a long reaction time is required, with the increased likelihood of hydrolysis of the ester group and splitting of the peptide bond taking place to a remarkable extent. On the other hand, in the event that the acid concentration is too high, there is the danger that the peptide bond and the ester group are hydrolyzed as rapidly as the formyl group is removed. As regards the reaction temperature, too low a temperature needs a long reaction time for deformylation, which will in turn cause the ester group to be hydrolyzed or the peptide bond to split. Thus a prolonged reaction time will not only deformylate a For a APR but also hydrolyze it at its ester or peptide bond. In consideraticn of these facts, a strong acid concentration range of from 0. 53 Ei, a reaction temperarure range of from 70 to 150 0C, and a reaction time range of from 15 seconds to 60 minutes are chosen as the preferred reaction conditions. With the process of the present invention, the hydrolysis can be effected in the absence of any alcoholic reaction medium. Examples of strong acids which may be employed to carry out the process of the present invention are mineral acids such as hydrochloric acid and sulphuric acid, and organic acids such as benzenesulphonic acid and trichloroacetic acid. Among these acids, hydrochloric and sulphuric acids are preferred because of cost and easy handling. The amount of acid to be used is not critical. The greater such amounts are, the more an alkali is ultimately needed to neutralize the acid. In view of this, an acid usually is preferably used in an amount of from 0.5 to 4 times the number of moles of aFor APR to be deformylated. The stage at which a strong acid is added to the reaction systems not critical either. All the acid may be added at the beginning of the reaction, or the acid may be added intermittently or continuously little by little as the reaction proceeds. A For APR may of course be added to an acid. The desired a APR resulting from deformylation according to the process of the present invention may be easily separated in any appropriate conventional manner once the reaction is completed. Thus, for instance, the reaction mixture may, after an appropriate reaction period, be adjusted in pH to about 4.7 with the use of an alkali such as sodium carbonate and, if necessary, be allowed to stand at a low temperature.Pure a APR may be collected by filtering the reaction mixture. In connection with N formyl a L aspartyl Lphenylalanine methyl ester, which is sometimes herein referred to as tFor a APM , its deformylated compound, i.e. a L aspartyl L phenylalanine methyl ester, which isSometimes herein referred to as a APM , is, unlike any other aspartyl dipeptide ester, precipitated as a sparingly soluble hydrohalogenide from a dilute hydrohalogenic acid Japanese patent application kokokuNo. 41,425 1974, corresponding to United States PatentNo. 3,798,207 . Accordingly, when a dilute hydrochloric acid is employed as strong acid in the process of the present invention, the a APM which is formed is spontaneously separated as its hyrochloride from the reaction mixture.The hydrochloride may be collected by filtration.Addition of a APM hydrochloride seed crystals to the reaction mixture after the completion of the reaction es crystallizstion of the hydrochloride.When sulphuric acid is used as the strong acid, the desired compound may be collected as its hydrochloride from the reaction product mixture by adding hydrochloric acid to the reaction mixture after the completion of the reaction. The a APM hydrochloride thus obtained may be used as a sweetener Japanese patent application kokai No. 13,371 1974 . It is, however, usually converted to free a APM by neutralising the hydrochloride with the use of an alkali such as sodium carbonate in an aqueous solvent, and collected as free a APM crystals. As is evident from the foregoing, the process of this invention is especially useful in the production of a APM. This present invention provides a commercially very useful process for removing the protecting N formyl group from a particular formyl protected peptide, because, in accordance with the present invention, the desired deformylated peptide can be produced with the use of inexpensive reagents such as hydrochloric acid, in a short time such as 15 seconds to 60 minutes and with the same or better isolation yield as those achieved in accordance with the conventional prior art processes. This invention will be further illustrated by reference to the following EXAMPLES. In the examples, reactions at temperatures below the relevant boiling points were carried out at atmospheric pressure, whereas those at temperatures above the relevant boiling points were carried out under sealed conditions. EXAMPLE 1 8 Millilitres of 2N hydrochloric acid were introduced into a vessel equipped with a reflux condenser, and were refluxes. Then 3.0 g For a APM, i.e. N formyl a L appartyl L phenylalanine methy ester, were added to the boiling hydrochloric acid. After one minute of refluxing, the reaction mixture was cooled by dipping the vessel into iced water. To the reaction mass was added a small amount 5 mg of a APM hydrochloride dihydrate crystals as seed crystals, and crystallization began immediately. The reaction mixture was allowed to stand overnight in a refrigerator. The a APhl hydrochloride dihydrate crystals which had crystallized were collected by filtration and dried. Yield, 2.01 g. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure, and to the residue were added 3 ml 1N hydrochloric acid and a small amount 5 mg of a APM hydrochloride dihydrate crystals as seed crystals, after which the resulting mixture was allowed to stand overnight in a refrigerator. The a APM hydrochloride dihyrate crystals which had crystallized were collected by filtration and dried. Yield, 0.13 g. The collected a APM hydrochloride dihydrate crystals totalled 2.14 g, which corresponded to a 62.8 yield on the basis of the For a APM starting material. 2.1 Grams of the collected crystals were dissolved in 35 ml water. The resulting solution was adjusted in pH to 4.7 with sodium carbonate and was then allowed to stand for 5 hours in a refrigerator. The a APM hemihydrate crystals which crystallized out were collected by filtration and dried. Yield, 1.1 g.The filtrate was concentrated to give another 0.3 g crystals. The a APM hemihydrate crystals totalled 1.4 g. 82.4 yield on the basis of the a APM hydrochloride dihydrate . M.p., 237 238 C uncorrected . 9 718 32.50 c l, acetic acid . Analysis Calcd. For C14H18 5N2 qa,o C, 55.44 H, 6.31 X, 9.24 . Found C, 55.25 H, 6.34 N,9.28 . X AMPLt 2 15 Millilitres of 2N hydrochloric acid were added to a vessel equipped with a reflux condenser and brought to boiling. A mixture of 4.0 g For a APhl and 1.0 g N formyl 8 aspartyl L phenylalanine methyl ester, which is herinafter referred to as 1For APM , was added to the boiling hydrochloric acid. After one minute or reflexing, the reaction mixture was cooled by dipping the vessel in iced water. To the resulting mass was added with a small amount 5 mg of a APM hydrochloride dihydrate crystals as seed crystals, and the mixture was allowed to stand overnight in a refrigerator. The a APM hydrochloride dihydrate crystals which crystallized out were collected by filtration and dried. Yield, 2.65 g. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure, and to the residue were added 5 ml 2N hydrochloric acid and a small amount 5 mg of a APM hydrochloride dihydrate crystals as seed crystals, after which the resulting mixture was allowed to stand overnight in a refrigerator.The a APM hydrochloride dihydrate crystals which crystallized out were collected by filtration and dried. Yield, 0.25 g. Similar treatment on the filtrate yielded 0.18 g. crystals. The a APM hydrochloride dihydrate crystals totalled 3.08 g 67.7 yield on the basis of the For a APM . A 3.0 g portion of the crystals were dissolved in 50 ml water. The resulting solution was adjusted p11 to 4.8 with sodium carbonate and was allowed to stand overnight in a refrigerator. Thea APM hemihydrate crystals which crystallized out were collected by filtration and.dried. Yield, 1.4 g. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure to give another 0.2 g crystals. The a APM hemihydrate crystals totalled 1.6 g 64.5 yield on the basis of the a APM hydrochloride dihydrate . The SAP.NIproduced by deformylation of For ss APM remained in solution as it is freely soluble in ROl. EXAMPLE 3 20 Millilitres of 0.5 N hydrochloric acid were introduced into a vessel equipped with a reflux condenser and heated to 900C. 2.0 Grams For a APM were added to the heated hydrochloric acid and kept at 900C for 15 minutes. The reaction mixture was then cooled rapidly by dipping the vessel in iced water. Thereafter , the reaction mixture had added to it 2 ml conc. hydrochloric acid and 5 mg a APM.HCl.2H2O crystals as seed crystals, and the mixture was allowed to stand overnight in a refrigerator. The a APM.HCl.2H2O crystals which crystallized out were collected by filtration and dried. Yield, 1.12 g. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue had added to it 3 ml 1N hydrochloric acid and 5 mg a APM.HCl.2H20 crystals as seed crystals, and was allowed to stand overnight. The crystals which crystallized out were collected by filtration and dried. Yield, 0.2 g. The a APM hydrochloride dihydrate crystals totalled 1.32 g 58.0 on the basis of the For a APM . M.p., 127 1280C, partly melted at 1021030C, both uncorrected. Analysis Calcd. for C14H18O5N2. HCl. 2H2O C, 45.84 H, 6.32 N, 7.64 . Found C, 46.04 H, 6.33 N, 7.60 . EXAMPLE 4 One gram of For a APM was added to 6 ml boiling 2N sulphuric acid. After one minute of boiling, the mixture was cooled rapidly, using iced water. Thereafter ., the mixture had added to it 1 ml conc.hydrochloric acid and 5 mg a APM.HCl. 2H2O crystals as seed crystals, amd was then allowed to stand overnight in a refrigerator. The crystals which has crystallized out were collected by filtration and dried to give 0.62 g a APM,HC1.2H2O. Yield, 54.9 SO. EXANSLE 5 15 Millilitres 1N hydrochloric acid were introduced into a vessel equipped with a reflux condenser and heated to 950C. 3.0 Grams For APM were added to the heated hydrochloric acid and kept at 92 95 C for 5 minutes.The reaction mixture was then cooled rapidly by dipping the vessel in iced water. Thereafter, to the reaction mixture were added 5 mg a APM.HCl.2H2O as seed crystals, and the seeded mixture was allowed to stand for 3 hours. The resulting a APM.HCl.2H2O crystals which formed were collected by filtration and dried. Yield, 1.35 g.The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure.To the residue were added 3 ml 1 N hydrochloric acid and 5 mg a APM.HCl.2H20 crystals as seed crystals, and the mixture was allowed to stand overnight in a refrigerator.The resulting crystals were collected by filtration and dried. Yield, 0.75 g. The a APM.HCl.2H2O crystals totalled 2.1 g.Yield, 61.6 . EXAMPLES 6 10 The general procedure of EXAMPLE 4 was repeated 5 times but with slight variations and the results are listed in the following Table 1. Table 1EXAMPLE Amount of Hvdrochl. Acid Reaction Isolation Yield For z AR. Normality Amount Temp. Time of a APM.HCl.2H 0 g N ml C min. 2 6 2 3 6 70 10 50.1 7 3 0.5 30 boiled A 57.2 8 1 1 5 boiled 2 65.9 9 3 1 15 boiled 3 63.5 10 2 . 3 6 boiled 1 58.4 In connection with ESUSIE 7, 3 ml conc. hydrochloric acid was added to the reaction mixture after the deformylation reaction, whereby crystallization of of alpha APM.HC1.2H2O was facilitated. EXAMPLE 11 In a thin wall SUS tube of l millimetre internal diameter and 10 metre length were placed 5 ml 1N hydrochloric acid and 50 mg Eor a APM. The tube was sealed at its enO and was dipped for 45 seconds in an oil bath maintained at 120 C. Immediately thereafter, the tube was taken out of the bath and soaked in an ice bath. After the reaction mixture was cooled enough, it was taken out of the tube and subjected to quantitative analysis with an amino acid analyzer. It was found that a APM had been formed in the reaction mixture in a yield of 64.5 on the basis of the For alpha APM. EXAMPLES 12 14 The general procedure of EXAMPLE 11 was repeated 3 times but with slight variations and the results are listed in the following Table 2. The room temperature was about 20 C. Table 2 EXCh2LE Amount of Hydrochl Acid Temp of Reaction Yield of a APM For z APAf Normality Amount Oil Bath time based on For mg N mi 0C sec. C APM 12 50 1 5 140 30 63.7 13 50 0.5 5 110 180 65.3 14 50 0.5 5 140 1X 62.4 Incidentally, as a control,water was enclosed in a thin wall SUS tube of 1 millimetre internal diameter. The water containing tube was soaked in an oil bath, first, of 110 C, then, of 1200C and last, of 1400C. Rise in temperature at the centre of the body of water was measured, and was as shown in the sole figure of the accompanying drawing in which the time seconds and the temperature C are indicated on the abscissa and the ordinate axes, respectively.