# Rotary print device with inherent indicia.

## Abstract
A rotary printing device, such as a daisy type printwheel 58 , for use in an impact printer, having identifying means thereon in the form of one or more protrusions 88 , extending outwardly from the printing device, the angle between the protrusions identifying the print element char acteristics and identifying the reference position of the printing device for arming the printer with the information. In another form, a single protrusion is provided solely for identifying the reference position.

## Claims
Claims 1. A rotary printing device 58 , for use in an impact printer when mounted upon a rotatable drive shaft 68 , having a central hub 78 from which extends a plurality of radial spokes 80 terminating in character support pads 82 , and including means 86 on said hub for mounting said printing device on a drive shaft in a manner precluding relative angular movement, and identification means 88 on said hub, including at least one protrusion therefrom, of which the location identifies at least one characteristic of said printing device. 2. The rotary printing device as claimed in claim 1, wherein said mounting means is formed to allow said printing device to be coupled with a drive shaft independently of any predetermined angular position, and wherein the or one protrusion identifies a reference position. 3. The rotary printing device as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein said identification means comprises a pair of protrusions spaced apart angularly. 4. The rotary printing device as claimed in claim 3, wherein both of said protrusions extend from the same side of the hub. 5. The rotary printing device as claimed in claim 4, including a third protrusion from the other side of the hub, wherein one of said pair of protrusions identifies a reference position, and wherein the included angle, about said printing device axis between said reference position and said third protrusion identifies characteristics of said printing device. 6. The rotary printing device as claimed in any of claims 3 5, wherein angle included between two protrusions is less than 1800. 7. The rotary printing device as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein said device is disk shaped. 8. A method for the in situ identification of the reference position of a rotary printing device 58 mounted upon a carriage in an impact printer wherein the printing device includes an identification protrusion 88 extending outwardly therefrom, comprising the steps of coupling the printing device to the drive shaft 68 of a drive motor 56 mounted on the carriage, in any of the available angular positions, rotating the drive shaft, introducing an interposer 90 into the path of the protrusion, arresting the drive shaft when the protrusion contacts the interposer, detecting the occurrence of arrested movement, generating an identification value indicative of the arrest position, and identifying the reference position from the identification value. 9. A method for the in situ identification of characteristics of a rotary printing device mounted upon a carriage in an impact printer, wherein the printing device includes identification protrusions extending outwardly therefrom, wherein the angle between the protrusions, about the printing device axis, identifies the print element characteristics, comprising the steps of mounting the printing device on a rotary drive shaft, rotating the drive shaft in a first direction, generating a signal train in response to angular movement of the drive shaft, introducing an interposer into the space between the protrusions, arresting the drive shaft when the first protrusion contacts the interposer, detecting the first occurrence of arrested movement, generating a first identification value indicative of the first arrest position, reversing the direction of rotation of the shaft, arresting the drive shaft when the second protrusion contacts the interposer, detecting the second occurrence of arrested movement, generating a second identification value indicative of the second arrest position, and identifying the printing device charactristics from the difference between the first and second identification values. 10. The method as claimed in claim 9, wherein one of the protrusions is a reference element, and including the step of identifying the location of the printing device reference position from the first and second identification values. 11. The method as claimed in any of claims 8 10 in which the drive shaft is rotated at a speed significantly slower than the speeds used while printing. 12. The method as claimed in any of claims 9 11, including determining the angle between the protrusions in response to the difference between the first and second identification values, and wherein, if the angle is less than 1800 locating the printing device reference position at the printing device radius passing through the point of contact between the interposer and one of the protrusions, or, if the angle is greater than 1800 locating the printing device reference position at the radial tangent to one of the protrusions remote from the point of contact between the interposer and the protrusion. 13. Apparatus for the in situ identification of a reference position of a rotary printing device 58 mounted upon a carriage 22 in an impact printer, wherein the printing device includes an identification protrusion 88 extending outwardly therefrom, comprising means 84, 86 for mounting said printing device on the drive shaft 68 of a drive motor 56 mounted on said carriage, in any of the available angular positions, means rotating said drive shaft, means for moving an interposer 90 into and out of the path of the protrusion for arresting the drive shaft when said protrusion makes contact with the interposer, means for detecting the occurrence of arrested rotation, means 96 for storing information representative of the arrest position, and means 96 for identifying the printing device reference position in response to said stored information. 14. Apparatus for the in situ identification of the characteristics of a rotary printing device 58 mounted upon a carriage 22 in an impact printer, wherein the printing device includes a pair of identification protrusions 88 extending outwardly therefrom, and wherein the angles between the protrusions identify its characteristics, comprising rrieans 84, 86 for mounting said printing device on the drive shaft 68 of a drive motor 56 mounted on said carriage, means 56 for rotating said drive shaft, means for moving an interposer 90 into the space between said protrusions for arresting the drive shaft when a protrusion makes contact with the interposer, means for generating a signal indicative of the incremental angular movement of said drive shaft, means for detecting the first occurrence of arrested rotation when said first protrusion contacts said interposer, and for detecting the second occurrence of arrested rotation when said second protrusion contacts said interposer after rotation in the opposite direction, means 96 for storing information representative of the angular distance between said protrusions, and means 96 for identifying the printing device characteristics in response to said stored information. 15. The apparatus as claimed in claim 13 or 14, wherein said interposer is mounted upon said carriage and is movable between a first position clear of the protrusions, and a second position in the path of the protrusions. 16. The apparatus as claimed in claim 13 or 14 wherein said interposer is mounted upon one wall of the frame of said printer, wherein a carriage stop is provided adjacent the said one wall for stopping said carriage at a position where the interposer is in the path of the protrusions when the print device is rotated.

## Description
Rotary print device with inherent indicia This invention relates to an improved rotary printing device, such as a daisy type printwheel or a cup shaped printing clement, for use in an impact printer. ihe printwheel is provided with identification features thereon which, in one form, scrve to locate a homc or reference position. in an another form, the identification features provide to the printer, in addition to locating a homc position, information rcgarding the font style, languagc, pitch, point size and other characteristics.This information cnables the printer to sclcct the desired charactcrs, to increment the carriage by the corrcct amount, and to impact the printwheel at the proper cncrgy level. A method and apparatus for in situ identification of the rotary printing device is also comprehended in this invention.On impact printers utilizing daisy type printwheels or printcups, i.e. printing devices having a plurality of radially extending spokes or petals cach bearing one or more characters thereon, it is desirable to rcadily substitute one print element for another in order to simply and quickly change the printed output To this cnd, the mcchanics of rcmoving one device and replacing it with another have been greatly simplificd. For example, the printwhecl shown in United States Patent No. 4,037,706 assigned to the instant assignee is provided with a handling cap. In assignec s companion Unitcd StatesPatent No. 3,954,163 a similar printwheel provided with a handling cap is shown mounted in a printer.Another approach to simplified printwhcel manipulation is shown in United States Patent Nos. 4,127,335 and 4,209,262 both also assigned to the instant assignee wherein the printwheels are cartridge loaded and the printer is provided with a suitable mcchanism to accept it Bcyond the mere mechanics of quickly and casily substituting one printing device with another, it is desirable to ann today s intelligent printers with necessary information about the loaded printwheel or printcup in order tllal the printer will know the location of each character, the proper impact cncrgy level to be applied to each character, and the lateral distance by which the printer carriage must be moved. Printing device identification to the printer may be provided directly by the user through a keyboard cnlry or the printcr may rcad this infonllalioll directly from the loadcd device.Once the identifying information llas beci received, the printer will make the necessary control adjustments. ll is may be accomplished as tatight in United States Patent No. 4.074.798 also assigned to the instant assignee , by any number of embodiments of rcad only memory in the form of optical or magnetic indicia. arranged in a circular manncr on the printwheel hub. Alternatively.Xerox Disclosure Journal, Vol.1, Nos.9 10, Sept. Oct 1976, p.25 discusscs, in general terms, the desirability of placing a code upon each petal to control the impact force for that character. Also, JBM Technical Disclosure Bulletin,Vol. 22, No. 31, April 1980 teaches the use of optical indicia placed upon the end portion of printwheel petals for identifying the printwheel font Otis also necessary, when loading a printing device on the printer carriage, to provide some means for locating a reference position in order that, upon the operators selection of a character on the keyboard, the spoke bearing that character will be aligned with the hammer for impaction.This is required since each character is allocated a unique number representing its position relative to the reference position. An optical arrangement for zeroing in, or locating, the home position of a printwheel, or a printcup, in an impact printer is taught in U.S. Patent No. 3,651,916, Therein, there is disclosed a printwheel having a peripheral aperture defined by the absence of print petals. A photoelectric cell and cooperating light source identify the home position when the aperture passes between the light source and sensor.Several mechanical home positioning configurations are taught in the aforementionned U.S. Patent Nos. 4,037.706 and 4,127,335, and also in U.S. Patent No. 4,161,373. Tn each, the printwheel is provided with an opening in the form of a keyway into which a locating key is positioned, upon mounting of the printwheel rclative to its rotatable drive shaL The keyway is fabricated to establish. within desired tolerances, the precise location of the home position.Another optical or magnetic home position sensor is taught in Figure 5 of the aforenientionned U.S. Patent No. 4,209,262. Magnetically or optically readable indicia upon the printsheel may be accessed through an aperture in the loading cartridge, by a suitable magnetic or optical sensor. Ily use of this marking and detection method, the home position of the wheel may be sensed. In addition, this patent teaches that a predetermined pattern of similar indicia may be used to define a code to indicate the type of character font used. ihe above described mecll mical arrangements for locating the printwheel at its home position are not foolproof as they require solne degree of n inual dexterity to manipulate the wheel relative lo the carriage and drive sh ifl. o the other hand, the provision of a printwheel cartridge does result in a foolproof referenced mouniing of the printwheel. however, it should be apparent that the cartridge approach is expensive, as il requires, in addition to the cartridge, a suitable receiving structure.On its face, it would appear that the optical indicia and sensor approach to the dual problem of locating a reference position and identifying the printwheel characteristics appears to be quite satisfactory. However, the facts belie this conclusion. The impact printer environment generally becomes so dirty as to greatly interfere with correct optical sensing. This results from the fact that the paper record member is a bonded composite material made up of diverse particulate ingredients. These include the bulk particles of small discrete cellulosic fibers of wood pulp, fillers such as clay, sizing such as rosin, coloring dyes, and bonding agents such as starches. When the paper is repeatedly impacted at high speeds and energy, clouds of particles are beaten off this composite material resulting in a contamination of the interior of the printer.Clearly, the particulates will detract from the effectiveness of the optical sensing devices and may even render them totally inoperative after a period of prolonged usage.A further drawback of the sensed indicia approach resides in the increased manufacturing costs of the printwheel bearing the optical or magnetic indicia. Affixing the indicia, in the form of reflective stripes, requires integrally molding them or adhering them to the wheel by some other means. Both approaches are costly. Similarly, the use of magnetic indicia in conjunction with magnetic sensors also elevates the cost of the printwheel elements,The novel rotary printing device of the present invention is provided with mounting means for coupling the printing device to a drive shaft, wilhout regard to angular alignment, home position identifying means and characteristic identifying means, comprising two precisely located protrusions.In an alternative, more simple. fonn of the invention. the device only includes the homc position identifying means. A foolproof method and apparatus for the in situ interpretation of both identifying means is also comprehended.Once mounted in the printer, on the drive shaft. the device is manipulaled to locate the home reference position and lo determine the included angle between the protrusions to arm the printer with location and daracteristics information. 110 tlic case of a device of the alternative St ml. tile manipulation will solcly locate the home or reference position. Many of the attendant advantages and the mode of operation of this invention will become more readily appreciated upon review of the following detailed description and with reference to the drawings, in which Figure 1 is a plan view of a printer embodying the present invention Figure 2 is an enlarged cross sectional view taken substantially along line 2 2 of Figure 1 Figure 3 is an enlarged plan view of the novel printing device of this invention showing a detector device in the angle a zone Figure 4 is a side, partial sectional, view of the printing device of Figure 3 showing the detector device in more detail Figure 5 is an enlarged plan view of the novel printing device of this invention showing a detector device in the angle ss zone Figure 6 is an enlarged plan view of an alternative embodiment of the novel printing device of this invention, showing identification protrusions on both sides Figure 7 is a side, parlial sectional, view of the printing device of Figure 6 showing the detector device in more detail Figure 8 is an enlarged plan view of another embodiment of the novel printing device of this invention showing three identification protrusions Figure 9 is an enlarged plan view of yet another embodiment of the novel printing device of this invention showing a single identification protrusion andFigure 10 is a schematic block diagram showing the printer control electronics.Turning now. more specifically, to the dnwings, there is illustrated in figures 1 and 2 an overall view of a representalive printer with which one fonn of the novel printing device of this invention may be used. Ille illustrated printer provides one suitable environment for supporting, rotating, sensing and in p Icting the device It should be clear tllat the novel prinritle device of tl is invention may he in the fon10 of a disk shaped printwheel as ilitistrated , a cup shaped element as referred to abovc , or any other suitable constniction, and may be used in conjunction with any suitable impact printer mcchanism. External support for the printer is provided by rectangular frame 10 which carrics a cylindrical platen 12 having cnd knobs 14 and 16 for manually rotating the platen to advance and retract a paper record member wrapped thereon. Spanning the long dimcnsion of the frame 10 are smooth, parallelly aligned support rods 18 and 20 upon which carriage 22 is mounted for reciprocating lincar movement from one end of the frame to the other cnd, on low friction roller assemblies 24 and 26.The motive force for carriage 22 is provided by carriage motor 28 secured to frame 10 by suitable fastening members. The motor 28 has drive shaft 30 extending outwardly therefrom upon which is mounted a drive pulley 32, in the form of a capstan. Anchored to the pullcy 32 are left cable segment 34 and right cable segment 36, cach countcrwound thereon. Cable segment 34 passcs to idler pulleys 38 and 40, then over a portion of carriage pullcy 42 see Figure 2 and is firmly secured to tensioning anchor 44 mounted upon the frame 10. Likewise, cable segment 36 passcs to idler pullcys 46 and 48, ovcr a ponion of carriage pullcy 42 in the opposite direction and has its cnd firmly secured to anchor 50 mounted upon the opposite frame wall.Accurate control of the energization of carriage motor 28, by the machine logic circuitry, cnables the carriage to be moved incrementally, either to the left or to the right as viewed in Figure 1 , by the desired amount and at the desired specd.A paper feed motor 52, fixed to the right wall of frame 10 as viewed in Figure 1 . drives the platen 12 through a gear train 54. Thus, by controlling the motor 52 through the machine logic circuitry, paper may be advanced incrementally. Mountcd upon the reciprocable carriage 22, for lateral movement therewith, is a printwhecl drive motor 56. to which is secured a printwheel 58. a hammer assembly 60, and a ribbon cartridge 62. inked ribbon 64. stored within and advanced by the ribbon cartridge, is interposed between the printwhccl type elements and the paper 66 wrapped upon platen 12. ll c printwh.eel drive motor 56 h.ms a central axial shaft 68 extending outwardly bcyond the motor. both forwardly and rcarw.lrdly. Ille forwird end of shaft 68 comprises a splined printwheel cngaging and driving hcad 70 upon which the printwlleel 58 may be mounted for being positively driven thereby.At the rcarward cnd of shaft 68 there is located a transduccr 72 including a rotatable disk 74, mounted upon and for rotation with shaft 68, and a fixed disk 76. secured to the motor housing. The transduccr provides position signals representative of the rotational position of shaft 68 and thus printwheel 58 to the printer control electronics in a known manncr, as more specifically set forlh inU.S. Patent No. 3,839,665 and U.S. Patent No. 3,954,163.There is illustrated in Figures 2 5 one form of the printwheel 58. It includes a central hub portion 78 from which a plurality of spokes 80 extend radially outwardly, cach spoke terminating in a pad 82 upon which a character clcmcnt is formed. The matcrial of the printwheel is fabricated is of no import in the context of this invention. Preferably it is molded of a suitable plastic material, however, hcavy duty,composite i.c. plastic and metal combination printwhecls are also prevalent today and may be constructed to incorporate the instant invention.Typically, the printwheel includes a handling cap 84, secured to one side of the printwhcel, and having a ccntral cavity 86 in axial alignmcnt with a central opcning in hub 78. The cavity 86 is illustrated as being splined for receiving splined head 76 of drive shaft 68. Of course. any positive drive configuration may be used, such as a common square or hexagonal mating arrangemcnt On this manncr, mounting and withdrawal of the printwheel from the shaft 68 is a simple and casual manual operation for the operator, since no attention need be paid to proper alignment of the printwheel, as heretofore required.It should be understood that cap 84 may be eliminated cntircly. it being sufficient to provide the printwheel hub with some suitable mating arrangement for receiving the drive shaftExtending axially from the hub 78. are a pair of protrusions or identification pins 88A and 8813. Although the protrusions are illustrated as being of circular cross section, it should be understood that they may be of any desired shape. They are preferably disposed on a common circle and are spaced from one another by a predetermined identification angle a, which must be less thdll 1800 ils complementary angle is designated as fi . One of the pills 83A for the sake of this description , is the home position indicator. I asllcd line R . tangent to the pin 88A, will be the reference position from which the angular rotation to cach of the charactcrs is counted. The included angle a, between the pins, will identify to the printer all the information necessary to properly operate that particular printwheel. tIhus once the angle has bccn determined, font style viz Pica.OCR, Emphasis , pitch vit 10, 12, l S and font language viz Frcnch, German, English will have been identified by the printer microprocessor and the location of cach character and its required impact level will be known. All the foregoing information is simply and inexpensively integrated into the printwhccl during fabrication, by the addition of the two protrusions or pins spaced from one another by a known angle. In the molded plastic wheels, provision may be made in the molding tool, for cach different type of wheel for including properly spaced protrusions. Since the protrusions are relatively small they will add little to the cost of the novel printwheel.In order to obtain relevant information regarding the location of the pins and the included angle a, a suitable detector device is required. One such detector embodimcnt 90 is disclosed in Figures 2 and 4. It includes a selectively moveable interposcr 92 which may be moved by solenoid actuator 94 mounted upon carriage 22, or any other suitable device. When a printwhccl is to be identified, such as. when a new wheel is loaded, or at the initiation of operation after powcr to the printer has becn turned off. a detection cycle is cffccted.Since pom dent practice dictates deenergizing the printer when the cover is opened for replacement of the printwheel the detection cycle may be included in the usual power up sequence.A representative detection cycle may include the following steps first, the printwheel drive motor 56 is energized to rotate the printwheel at a slow speed, ie. less than one and one half revolutions per second as compared to its normal print speed, i.e. aproximately five to fifteen revolutions per second second, the interposer 92, of detector 90. is moved by means of the solenoid 94 into interference rclationship with the pins 88A and 8813 third, the printwheel drive motor is stopped when one of the pins 88 contacts the interposer 92, stopping the drive motor and arresting the train of signals from the transducer fourth, the direction of printwheel motor 56 is reversed and printwhecl 58 will be slowly rotated until the othcr of the pins 88 contacts the interposer 92. again stopping the drive motor and arresting the train of signals from the transducer and finally the intcrposcr is rclracted by the solenoid 94. The angle between pins 8SA and 88B can easily be ascertained by counting the number of transducer generated zero crossing signals transmitted dllring the reverse rotation of the printwheel motor. Rotation of the printwhcel during the first step of the detection cycle i.c. be Fore introduction of the interposer 92 is cíTcclcd to prevent jamming or locking of thc drive motor, which could result if one of the pins were in direct alignmcnt with the interposes at the time the solenoid actuator 94 is energized, and the interposer is urged against a pin. Of course. the drive motor and the intcrposcr solenoid may be cncrgized simultancously rather than sequentially, as set forth above.As stated above, the printwheel 58 may be mounted upon the shaft 68 without regard to aligning it at a home position. Thus, as illustrated in Figurcs 3 and 5, the intcrposcr may mcasure either the angle a or the angle ss. For the purposcs of this invention it is of no import which angle is measured since the printer control electronics is programmcd to identify an angle between Oc and 180 .In the event that an angle grcatcr than 180 is mcasured, that angle is merely subtracted from 3600 to determine the printwbeel characteristic identification angle. Alternatively, the printer control electronics may be programmcd to generate the same output identification for the a or B angle.The printwheel home or reference position R may be arbitrarily selected to be adjacent to pin 88A in the a zone. Therefore, it is determined by the juxtaposition of wall r of interposer 92 and pin 88A. Clearly, if the measured angle is ss, the opposite walls of interposer 92 and pin 88A will be in contact, thus, the printer control electronics must also be programmcd to compcnsate for the pin and intcrposcr dimcnsions, to correctly detcrmine the angle a and to locate the home position, in the event that angle p is measured.Another cmbodimcnt of the detector device and detection cycle will now be described but will not be illustrated in the drawings . In this form, a detector including a fixed intcrposer, is mounted on the left frame clement as viewed in Figure 1 adjacent a carriage stop, also mounted upon the left frame element At the initiation of the power up sequence, the carriage will be moved fully to the left until it abuts the stop.Prior to contacting the stop, the printwhecl drive motor will bcgin to rotate the wheel at the slow detection speed. Ihus, when the carriage arrives at the stop. the interposer will be in a position to interfere with the free rotation of the printwhccl, but because of the premature rotation, the drive motor will not jam, if they happcn to be in direct alignment The subsequent detection cycle steps as set forth above may then be carried out, namely the printwheel is rotated in a first direction until it hits one of the pins, then the printwheel is related in the opposite direction until it is again slopped by the other pin. The measured angle a or ss is dctermined and the printer control electronics is armed with all the informalion necessary for proper utili,tion of the new printwlleel As it is sometimes required to change printwheels during the production of a task, it is desirable, with this embodiment, that the printer control electronics restore the carriage to its previous location relative to the platen and document after the printwhecl has been identified, so that the task may be completed.An alternative embodiment of the unique printing device is identified as 58 in Figures 6 and 7 wherein the protrusions 88A and 8B are on opposite sides of the printwheel and the interposer 92 is in the form of a U shaped clement It is contemplated that this form of the printing device be utilized with the detector device and detection cycle described in the preceding paragraph. wherein the interposer 92 is fixed on the printer frame and the printwheel carriage is brought into interference relationship with the interposer during the detection cycle. It should be apparent that this embodiment will only be practical with a disk shaped printing device.As it becomes desirable to identify a larger number of printing devices than can be determined from the 1800 region allotted to identification, as described above, a further embodiment of the printing device is suggested. By providing the printwheel 58 illustrated in Figure 8, having protrusions 88A and 88B on one side as in Figure 3 and a third protrusion 88C located on the opposite side, a further identification region of substantially 3600 becomes possible The identification region, defined by the angle y between protrusion 88C and reference position R , may be measured by a second interposer 93 moved into interference relationship with the protrusion 88C at the appropriate time.While the interposer 93 has been shown in Figure 8 at the 3 o clock position, it should be understood that it may be mounted in any advantageous location as long as it is able to perform its desired function. The method of in situ identification will follow the series of steps set forth above, with respect to the Figure 3 embodiment, with the addition of the further steps of removing interposer 92, rotating the printwheel at the slow speed, and moving the interposer 93 into interference position. Since the printer clectronics would have already determined the location of the reFerence position it is a simple matter to measure the angle up to 3600 between that position and the third protrusion, in either direction. Therefore, it is a matter of choice to rotate the printwheel in the first direction or in the second direction. Allhouo the novel rosary printing device of the present invention hilts been described as bcing provided with means for identifying a homc position and for identirying the printing device characteristics, the present invention also contemplates a printing device provided solely with homc position identifying means. Such a device is illustrated inFigure 9, as 58 and is provided with a single protrusion 88. In use, the printer will rotate the printing device in one direction only, until the movable interposcr 92 abuts the protrusion 88 and stops the drive motor.When this occursthe reference position R has been determined and the printer control electronics will be armcd . Reference is now made to Figure 0 for a graphic representation of the printer control electronics capable of carrying out the in silu identification of the cmbodimcnt illustrated in Figures 1 through 5. During the identification cycle, as described above, the printwheel drive motor 56 rotates the printwheel 58 relative to the interfering intcrposer 92 Each time one of the printwheel protrusions 88 contacts the intcrposcr, the printwheel and its drive motor will be stopped.The transducer 72, also carried on the shaft of the drive motor 56, generates a cyclical signal, as the drive shaft rotates, whose cycles are sensed by the processor 96 as an indication of a predetermined incremental rotation of the printwheel. The processor 96 may be similar to the processor 76 disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,058,195 and found in the HyType II serial printer manufactured by Diablo Systems Inc. of Hayward, California.The cyclical signal train is used by the control elements of the processor 96, reFerred to generally as the controller 98 to increment a countcr defined in a storage location of a random access mcmory RAM 100, within the processor 96. The countcr will be reset by the controller, during the identification cycle, upon the first incidence of arrested movement of the drive motor, indicating that the first protrusion has been contacted.Continued rotation of the drive motor will again allow the transduccr to generate cyclical position signals. Each cycle is then counted by the RAM countcr until the second incidence of arrested movement stops the train of signals, at which time the countcr is also stopped by the controller. The value stored in the RAM countcr indicates the number of cycles, of the cyclical signal train, between protrusions 88A and 88B. Then, the stored value is applied as an address to a table rcad only mcmory ROM 102 which contains all the characterizing data for cach printwheel to be used with the printer. It should be noted, that the table ROM will. also be progr.in0med to Qcncr.ltc the same characterizing data for a stored RAM value indicative of the n angle or ss angle. Each of the other alternative ctnb diments, of the present invention, described above will require a similar identification cycle control pr graln.