# Algicidal composition and method of controlling the growth of algal microorganisms in aqueous systems.

## Abstract
There is disclosed an algicidal composition and method for inhibiting and controlling the growth of algal microorgan isms, especially the green algae, Chlorella pyrenoidosa. The composition comprises a mixture of methylenebis thiocyan ate and 2,2 dibromo 3 nitrilopropionamide. The method comprises administering an effective amount of this com bined treatment to the particular water containing system for which treatment is desired, the methylenebis thiocyanate and the 2,2 dibromo 3 nitrilopropionamide being added separately or together.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Algicide composition characterised by comprising a mixture of methylcncbis thiocyanate and 2,2 dibromo 3 nitrilopropionamide, wherein the weight ratio of said 2,2 dibromo 3 nitrilopropionamide to said methylenebis thiocyanate ranges from about 1 4 to 512 1 2a A composition as claimed in claim 1 characterised in that said weight ratio is about 1 1 to about 128 1. A method for controlling the growth of algal microorganisms in an aqueous system characterised by adding to said system, either separately or together, a growth inhibiting amount of methylenebis thiocyaiiate and 2,2 dibromo 3 nitrilopropionamide, herein the weight ratio of said 2,2 dibromo 3 nitrilopropionamide to said methylenebis thiocyanate ranges from about 1 4 to about 512 1. 4. A method as claimed in claim 3, characterised in that said weight ratio is about 1 1 to about 128 1. 5. A method as claimed in claim 3 or 4 characterised in that said composition is added to said system in an amount of from about 0.1 to about 200 parts per weight of said composition per million parts by weight of said aqueous system. 6. A method as claimed in claim 5 wherein said composition is added to said system in an amount of from bout 5 to about 50 parts per million of said aqueous system. 7. A method as claimed in any one of claims 3 to 6, characterised in that said aqueous system comprises a cooling water system. 8. A method as claimed in any one of claims 3 to 7, characterised in that said aqueous system comprises a pulp and paper mill system. 9. A method as claimed in any one of claims 5 to 8, characterised in that said algal microorganisms comprises a green algal microorganism. 10. A method as claimed in claim 9, characterised in that said green algal microorganism comprisesChlorella pyrenoidosa.

## Description
DESCRIPTION ALGICIDAL COMPOSITION AND METHOD OF CONTROLLING THE GROWTH OF ALGAL MICROORGANISMS IN AQUEOUS SYSTEMS The present invention relates to algicidal compositions and to a method of controlling the growth of algal microorganisms in aqueous system. The formation of aqueous slimes by microorganisms is a problem which is encountered in many systems. For example, the problem is not only found in rntural waters such as lagoons, lakes, bonds, etc. and confined waters as in pools, but also in such industrial systems as cooling water systems, air washer systems and pulp and paper mill systems.All possess conditions which are conductive to the growth and reproduction of sline zoraing micro organism. In both once tbrough and recirculating cooling systems, for example, which employ large quantities of water as a cooling medium, the formation of slime by microorganisms is an extensive and constant problem. Airborne organisms are readily entrained in the water from cooling towers and find this warm medium an ideal environment for growth and multiplication. Aerobic and heliotropic organisms fluorish on the tower proper wliile other organisms colonize and grow in such areas as the tower sump and the piping and passages of the cooling system. The slime formation not only aids in the deterioration of the tower structure In the case of wooden towers, but also, by its deposition on metal surfaces, promotes corrosion. In addition, slime carried through the cooling system plu s and fouls lines, valves, strainers, etc. and deposits on heat exchange surfaces.In the latter case, the impendance of heat transfer can greatly reduce the efficiency of the cooling system. In pulp and paper mill systems, slime formed by micoorganisms inscommonly encountered causing fouling or plugging thereof. The slime also becomes entrained in the paper produced to cause breakouts on the paper machines, with consequent work stoppages and the loss of production time, and or is responsible for unsightly blemishes in the final product, which result in rejects and wasted output. The previously discussed problems have resulted in the extensive utilization of biocides in cooling water and pulp and paper mill systems.Materilas which have enjoyed widespread use in such applications include chlorine, chlorInated phenols, organo bromines, and various organo sulfur compounds.All of these compounds are generally useful for this purpose but each is attended by a variety of impediments.For example, chlorination is limited both by its specific tonicity for slime forming organisms at economic levels and by the tendency of chlorine to react, which results in the expenditure of the chlorine before its full biocidal function is achieved. Other biocides are attended by odour problems and hazards in respect to storage, use or handling which limit their utility. Go date, no one compound or type of compound has achieved a clearly established predominance in respect to the applications discussed.Likewise, lagoons, ponds, lakes, and even pools, either used for pleasure purposes or used for industrial purposes for the disposal and storage of indust rial wastes, become, during the warm weather, beseiged by slime due to microorganism growth and reproduction. In the case of the recreational areas the problem of infection is obvious. In the case of industrial storage or disposal of industrial materials, the microorganisms cause addition al problems which must be eliminated prior to the material s use or disposal of the waste. Naturally, economy is a major consideration in respect to all of these biocides. Such economic considerations attach to both the cost of the biocide and the expense of its application. The cost performance index of any biocide is derived from the basic cost of the material, its effectiveness per unit of weight, the duration of its biocidal or biestatic effect in the system treated, and the ease and frequency of its addition to the system treated. To date, none of the commercially available biocides have exhibited a prolonged biocidal effect.Instead, their effectiveness is rapidly reduced as the result of exposure to physical conditions such as temperature, association with Ingredients contained by the system toward which they exhibit an affinity or substantivity, etc., with a resultant restriction or elimination fo their biocidal effectiveness, or by dilution. As a consequence, the use of such biocides involves their continuous or frequent addition to systems to be treated and their addition to a plurality of points or zones in the systems to be treated. Accordingly, the cost of the biocide and the labour cost of such means of applying it are considerable. In other Instances, the difficulty of access to the zone in which slime formation is experienced precludes the effective use of a biocide.For example, if in a particular system there is no access to an area at which slime formation occurs the biocide can ory be applied at a point which is upstream in the torl system. however, the physical or chemical conditions, e.g., chemical reactivity, thermal degradation, etc0, which exist between the point at which the biocide may be added to the system and the point at which its biocidal effect is desired render the effect lve use of 2 biocide innossibleO Similarly, in a system experiencing relatively slow flow, such as a paper mill, if a biocide is added at the begining of the system, its biocidal effect may be completely dissipated before it has reached all of the point3 at which this effect is desired or required. As a consequence, the biocide must be added at a plurality of points, and even then 2 diminishing biocidal effect will be experienced between one point of addition to the system and the next point downstream at which the biocides may be added. In addition to the increased cost of utilizing and maintaining plural feed points, gross ineconomies in respect to the cost of the biocide are experienced.Specifically, at each point of addition, an excess of the biocide is added to the system In order to compensate for that portion of the biocide which will be expended in reacting with other constituents present In the system or experience physical changes which impair its biocidal activity. One biocidal composition and method comprising a combination of 1,3dichleroacetene oxime acetate and 2,2 dibromo 3 mitrilopropionamide is disclosed in U.S.Patent 3,930,015 Swered et al . Other synergistic biocidal compositions, including 2,2ibromo 3 nitriloprop ionamide and sundry other compounds are disclosed inU.S. Patents 3,929,562 Shema et al 3,897,562 Shema et al 3,897,554 Shema et al 3,896,231 Shema et al 3,873,444 Shema et al 3,865,724 Shema et al and 3,864,253 Shema et al . The use of methylenebis thiocyanate in biocidal compositions is similarly detailed in U.S. Patent 3,862,324 S zered et at . Surprisingly, the present inventors have found that a mixture of 2,2 dibromo 3 nitrilopropionamide hereinafter DBNPA and methylenebis thiocyanate nereinafterMBT is especially efficacious in controlling the growth of algal microbes, especially the Chlorella p renojdosa species, 2,2 dibromo 3 nitrilopropionamide is commerciallv available from Dow Chemical and is sold under the designation 1Dow XD 7287L . Nethylenebis thiocyanate is available from Stauffer Chemical Company under the designation N 948 . In accordance with the present invention, the combined MAB DBNPA treatment may be added the t 3T and theDBNPA being added separately or together to the desired aqueous system, in need of biocidal treatment, in a growth inhibiting amount, preferably form about .001 to about 200 parts of the combined treatment to one million parts by weight of the aqueous medium. Preferably, about 5 to about 50 parts of the combined treatment per one million parts by weight of the aqueous medium is added. The operable range of weight ratios of DBNPA MBT, in accordance with the present composition and method, may vary from about 1 4 to 512 1, with a weight ratio DBNPA MBT of about 1 1 to 128 1, being preferred. The combined treatment is added, for example, to cooling water systems, paper and pulp mill systems, pools, ponds, lagoons, lakes, etc., to control the formation of algal microorganisms which may be contained by, or which may become entrained in, the system to be treated. It has been found that the DBNPA MBT compos itions and methods of utilization of the treatment are efficacious in controlling the green algal microorganisms which may populate these systems. It is thought that the combined treatment composition and method of the present invention will also be efficacious in irMib iting and controlling all types of algae microbes. Surprisingly, it has been found that when theDBNPA MBT ingredients are mixed, the resulting mixtures possess a higher degree of algicidal activity than that of the individual ingredients comprising the mixture. Accordingly, it is possible to produce a highly efficacious algicide. Because of the enhanced activity of the mixture, the total quantity of the algicide treat ment may be reduced. In addition, the high degree of algicidal effectiveness which is provided by each of the ingredients may be exploited without use of higher concentrations of each. To demonstrate the synergism exhihited by the inventive combinations of compounds, the following experimental data were developed. It is to be remembered that the following examples are to be regarded solely as being illustrative, and not as restricting the scope of the invention. Synergism was demonstrated by adding the chemicalsMBT and DBITPA in varying ratios and over a range of concentrations to a liquid nutrient medium which was subsequently inoculated with a standard volume of a suspension of the green alga Chlorella pyrenoidosa.Growth was measured by determining the amount of ratio activity accumulated by the cells when NaH14CO2 was added as the sole source of earbon in the nutrient medium. The effect of the biocide chemicals alone and in combination, is to reduce the rate and amount of incorporation into the cells during incubation, as compared to controls not treated with the chemicals. Additions of the biocides, alone and in varying combin ations, and concentrations were made according to the accepted checkerboard technique described by N. T.Kelley and J. M. Matsen, Antimicrobial Agents andChemotherapy. 9,440, 1976 . Following a four hour zincubotior, the about of radioactivity incorporated in the cells was determined by countin 14e liquid scintillation procedures all treated and untreated samples.The percent reduction of each treated sample was calculated from the relationship EMI7.1 Plotting the ss reduction of 14 level against the concentration of each biocide acting alone results in a typical sigmoidal dose response curve, from which the biocide dose necessary to achieve any given ss reduction can be interpolated. Synergism was determined by the method of calculation described by F. C. Eull, P. C. isman, E. D. Sylwestrowicz and R. L. ibyer, Applied Microbiology 9, 538, 1961 using the relationship EMI7.2 where Qa quantity of compound A, acting alone, producing an end point. quantity of compound B, acting alone, producing an end point.QA quantity of compound A in mixture, producing an end point.quantity of compound B in mixture, producing an end point. The end point used in the calculations is the S reduction caused by each mixture of A and B. QA and QB are the inn visual concentrations in the A B mixture, causing a given reduction. Qa and Qb are determined by interpolation from the respective dose response curves of A and B as those concentrations of A and B acting alone which produce t ie same reduction cos each specific mixture produced.If, for example, quantities of QA plus Q3 are sufficient to give a 50 reduction in 14C content, Qa and Qb are those quantities of A or B acting alone found to give 50 reduction in 14O content,A synergism index SI is calculated for each combination of A and B in the checkerboard whose endpoint ranges from 10 to 90 reduction of 14n content0 Because of the nature of biological dose responses, it is not valid to attempt to analyze endpoints of 10 or reduction in this system. Where the SI is t1, synergism exists. Where the SI 1, additivity exists. WhereSI 1, antagonism exists. The data in the following table come from treating Chiorella pyrenoidosa, a common nuisance alga in indust rial cooling waters and in swimming pools, with varying ratios and concentrations of MPT and DBlTPA. Shown for each combination is the reduction of 14C content, the calculated S.I., and the weight ratio of DBNPA toMBT. Synergism is shown over a broad range of concent rations and over a broad range of weight ratios i.e., from 512 1 to 1 4 . In this example, S.I. cannot be calculated for any weight ratios where the IT concentration equals or exceeds 5 ug ml, because that concentration of MBT alone gives 90 reduction. Similarly, a S.I. cannot be calculated for combinations in which the DBNPA concentration equals or exceeds 40 ug mI. MBT ug ml EMI9.1 SEP 0 SEP 0.039 SEP 0.078 SEP 0.156 SEP 0.313 SEP 0.625 SEP 1.25 SEP 2.5 SEP 5.0 tb SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 28 SEP 67 SEP 77 SEP 88 SEP 93 SEP SEP Reduction tb SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP S.I. tb SEP SEP 0 100 SEP 0 100 SEP 0 100 SEP 0 100 SEP 0 100 SEP 0 100 SEP 0 100 SEP 0 100 SEP wt. SEP ratio tb SEP 0 SEP 33 SEP 36 SEP 48 SEP 59 SEP 69 SEP 80 SEP 85 SEP 92 SEP SEP Reduction tb SEP SEP 0.14 SEP 0.25 SEP 0.35 SEP 0.59 SEP 0.81 SEP 0.84 SEP 1.25 SEP SEP S.I. tb SEP 100 0 SEP 8 1 SEP 4 1 SEP 2 1 SEP 1 1 SEP 1 2 SEP 1 4 SEP 1 8 SEP 1 16 SEP wt. SEP ratio tb SEP 0 SEP 42 SEP 52 SEP 57 SEP 60 SEP 72 SEP 84 SEP 89 SEP 94 SEP SEP Reduction tb SEP SEP 0.16 SEP 0.21 SEP 0.35 SEP 0.60 SEP 0.82 SEP 0.65 SEP 0.76 SEP SEP S.I. tb SEP 100 0 SEP 16 1 SEP 8 1 SEP 4 1 SEP 2 1 SEP 1 1 SEP 1 2 SEP 1 4 SEP 1 8 SEP wt. SEP ratio tb SEP 26 SEP 51 SEP 45 SEP 55 SEP 60 SEP 73 SEP 78 SEP 91 SEP 94 SEP SEP Reduction tb SEP SEP 0.16 SEP 0.28 SEP 0.38 SEP 0.70 SEP 0.68 SEP 0.87 SEP 0.77 SEP SEP S.I. tb SEP 100 0 SEP 32 1 SEP 16 1 SEP 8 1 SEP 4 1 SEP 2 1 SEP 1 1 SEP 1 2 SEP 1 4 SEP wt. SEP ratio tb SEP 25 SEP 52 SEP 57 SEP 59 SEP 57 SEP 75 SEP 85 SEP 90 SEP 94 SEP SEP Reduction tb SEP SEP 0.25 SEP 0.30 SEP 0.41 SEP 0.63 SEP 0.72 SEP 0.71 SEP 0.81 SEP SEP S.I. tb SEP 100 0 SEP 64 1 SEP 32 1 SEP 16 1 SEP 8 1 SEP 4 1 SEP 2 1 SEP 1 1 SEP 1 2 SEP wt. SEP ratio tb SEP 37 SEP 58 SEP 60 SEP 61 SEP 74 SEP 81 SEP 87 SEP 89 SEP 95 SEP SEP Reduction tb SEP SEP 0.33 SEP 0.40 SEP 0.54 SEP 0.50 SEP 0.59 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.88 SEP SEP S.I. tb SEP 100 0 SEP 128 1 SEP 64 1 SEP 32 1 SEP 16 1 SEP 8 1 SEP 4 1 SEP 2 1 SEP 1 1 SEP wt. SEP ratio tb SEP 35 SEP 71 SEP 66 SEP 68 SEP 75 SEP 79 SEP 14 SEP 78 SEP 96 SEP SEP Reduction tb SEP SEP 0.47 SEP 0.58 SEP 0.63 SEP 0.68 SEP 0.75 SEP 10.23 SEP 2.0 SEP SEP S.I. tb SEP 100 0 SEP 256 1 SEP 128 1 SEP 64 1 SEP 32 1 SEP 16 1 SEP 8 1 SEP 4 1 SEP 2 1 SEP wt. SEP ratio tb SEP 61 SEP 79 SEP 80 SEP 75 SEP 81 SEP 87 SEP 92 SEP 94 SEP 97 SEP SEP Reduction tb SEP SEP 0.70 SEP 0.71 SEP 1.0 SEP 0.87 SEP 0.92 SEP SEP SEP SEP S.I. tb SEP 100 0 SEP 512 1 SEP 256 1 SEP 128 1 SEP 64 1 SEP 32 1 SEP 16 1 SEP 8 1 SEP 4 1 SEP wt. SEP ratio tb SEP 94 SEP 98 SEP 98 SEP 98 SEP 98 SEP 98 SEP 98 SEP 99 SEP 99 SEP SEP Reduction tb SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP S.I. tb SEP 100 0 SEP 1024 1 SEP 512 1 SEP 256 1 SEP 128 1 SEP 64 1 SEP 32 1 SEP 16 1 SEP 8 1 SEP wt. SEP ratio tb DBNPA ug ml 0 0.313 0.625 1.25 2.5 5 10 20 40 The above table illustrates the fact that the combination of MBT and DBNPA, over all ratios inclusive of from 512 parts DBNPA to 1 part ViBT and 1 part DBNPA to 4 parts IDD, is synergistic in its inhibitory effect against algae growth. While we have shown and described herein certain embodiments of the present invention, it is intended that there be covered as well any change or modification therein which may be made without departing from the the spirit and scope of tiie Invention.