# Prefabricated panel structure for the building industry and process for the production thereof.

## Abstract
Prefabricated panel structure for the building industry comprising two thick main slabs 1, 2 of laminated plastic, being kept spaced and mutually glued, so as to form a sealed, flat, box like body, by thick laminate fillets 4 arranged perpendicularly to the surface of the slabs, 1, 2 along at least their contour the chamber formed inside said sealed box like body contains pressed insulating material 3 .

## Claims
CLATMS 1 Prefabricated panel structure for the building industry, characterized in that it comprises tio thick main slabs of laminated plastic, being kept spaced and mutually glued, so as to form a sealed, flat, box lilce body, by thick laminate fillets arranged perpendicularly to the surface of the slabs, along at least their contour, and in that tlle chamber formed inside said sealed box like body contains pressed insulating material. 2 Panel structure as in claim 1 , wherein the laminated plastic forming the slabs and the spacing fillets is of a thickness of 5 to 10 mm, preferably 5 6 mm. 3 Panel structure as in claim 1 , wherein said spacing fillets are applied along a contour which is set bacle in respect of the edges of the slabs. 4 Panel structure as in claim 1 , wherein the outer face of at least one of the slabs of laminated plastic forming the panel has a finished surface. 5 Panel structure as in claim 1 , wherein the insulating mate rial contained in the sealed chamber consists of cor . G Panel structure as in claims 1 or 5 , wherein said interme diate insulating material is formed of several superposed and tlr ta posed sheets or sheet parts, pressed up to occup art tlie entire volume of said chamber formed by the sealed box like body. 7 Panel structure as in claim 1 , therein at least the opposite vertical edges of each panel are shaped so as to obtain a simple groove and tongue engagement with the edges of the adjacent panels. 3 Panel structure as in claim 7 , wherein said vertical edges of the panels have cog rib profiles. 9 Panel structure as in claim 1 or 3 , wherein said to main slabs are provided, on their faces turning towards tlle inside of the panel, with symmetrically opposed grooves running along said setback contour, into . iiich engage tile edges of the spacing fillets. 10 Panel structure as in claim 9 , wherein said grooves are less ide than the thickness of the spacing fillets and the latter are provided, on their opposite edges, with narrow ribs for engagement into said grooves. 11 Panel structure as in any one of the preceding claims, where in tlle cavity formed between cach spacing fillet and the ends of the main slabs extending beyond the fillet forms, in cooperation eith the similar cavity of an adjacent panel, a space for housing service pipelines. 12 Panel structure as in any one of the preceding clains, pre senting itself in the form of a flat panel. 13 Panel structure as in any one of the dais 1 to 11 , presenting itself in tlle focl of a corner panel. 1 Panel structure as in claim 13 , wherein the intermediate insulating material, in correspondence of the corner position, com prises at least one stiff wooden upright. 15 Panel structure as in any one of the claims 1 to 11 , presenting itself in the form of a panel for T connections. 16 Panel structure as in claim 15 , wherein, in correspondence of the T connection position, the insulating material of tlie main panel incorporates a wooden upright. 17 Panel structure as in claim 16 , wherein, in correspondence of tlle connection position and externally of the r ain panel, there is firmly fixed a wooden lath, acting as connection means for tile secondary panel element arranged perpendicularly to the main panel. 1 Panel structure as in claim 17 , wherein the dimensions of said lath are substantially equal to the volume of the cavity formed between the spacing fillet and the ends of tile main slabs of the secondary panel element extending beyond said fillet. 19 Process for the production of a self supporting panel as in any one of the preceding claims, comprising the steps of delimiting on the upward turning face of a first main slab of laminated plastic, positioned flat, a contour set bacle in respect of its edges applying along said contour, with the interposition of adhesive, the lower edge of spacing fillets arranged perpendicularly to the slab filling the volume confined between said fillets with a layer of insulating material being thicker than the width of the fillets laying over a second main slab of laminated plastic, by applying it on the upper edge of the spacing fillets, also with the interposition of adhesive subjecting the slabs to a clamping pressure, one onto the other and against the fillets, up to complete gluing thereof. 20 Process as in claim 19 , wherein said setbacle contour is delimited by the milling of grooves running parallely to the edges of the main slabs and being shortly spaced in respect thereof, into said grooves being engaged, with the interposition of adhesive, the edges of the spacing fillets. 21 Process as in claims 19 or 20 , wherein narrow ribs are formed by milling on the opposite longitudinal edges of said spacing fillets, said ribs being apt to engage into said grooves of the main slabs. 22 Process as in claim 19 , wherein cog rib profiles are formed by milling at least on the opposite vertical edges of the main slabs of each assembled panel, said profiles forming a mutual cogging engagement with the adjacent panels. 23 Process as in claim 19 , wherein for the construction of a corner panel, in each of the two flat panel parts arranged perpendicularly, and in correspondence of the respective corner position, the spacing fillet is replaced by a stiff wooden uprìgllt being used for the mutual connection of the two parts. 24 Process as in claim 23 , wherein said mutual connection of the two corner panel parts is obtained by gluing . 25 Process as in claim 19 , wherein for the construction of aT connection panel, a stiff wooden upright is incorporated in tlle insulating layer of the main panel, in correspondence of the connection position, and a wooden lath is moreover firmly fixed on the outside of the panel, and wherein a secondary panel element is fi cd onto said lath, perpendicularly to the main panel, by means of screws passing through at least one vertical spacing fillet of said secondary panel element. 26 Use of a panel structure as in any one of the claims 1 to 18 in the building field, particularly for the construction of partition rallys. 27 Use as in claim 26 , wherein one determines the perimeter of the partition walls defining different areas of a single living space and, along said perimeter, one fixes to the ground a rest guide on which are mounted the panels, one next to the other, carry ing furthermore into mutual engagement the respective vertical sides and using, time after time, flat panels, corner panels or T connection panels, up to completing the perimeter, lllereupon one eventually applies a connection guide along the upper edges of the panels. 2O Use as in claim 26 , wherein one detennines the perimeter of the partition walls separating one living space from the next and, along said perimeter, one fixes to the ground a double rest guide, on each of the two guides being mounted the panels, one next to the other, carrying furthermore into mutual engagement the respective vertical sides and fixing the panels to the cciling of the building by means of anchoring brackets, the free space between the top of tic panels and the ceiling being filled with scaled compensation oints, and a sealed air chamber being formed between the parallel adjacent panels fixed onto said two guides. 29 Use as in claim 27 or 25 , wherein the free space being form ed at least along the vertical edges of the juxtaposed sides of the paris. is used for housing service pipelines. 30 Use as in any one of the claims 26 to 20 , wherein at least one of the panels of said partition walls is leant against a teclini cal block incorporating the service pipelines or canalizations as ell as the connections for support of the sanitary apparatuses and for connection to the respective piping system, said panel being pro vided with holes in correspondence of said connection points to allow said sanitary apparatuses to be connected directly.

## Description
PREFABRICATED PANEL STRUCTURE FOR THE BUILDING INDUSTRY AND PROCESS FOR THE PRODUCTION THEREOF The object of the present invention is a prefabricated panel structure for the building industry, a process for the production thereof, and a method of using the panel itself. More particularly, the panel structure according to the invention has been conceived for the complete self contained construction of a so called services area , though it may find application, more ge nerally, in the construction of all the inner partition walls of the building, especially in certain types of constructions as those intended for hotels. Dy the general term services area is here meant the volume occupied by the bathrooms and kitchen wiiich, according to the present invention, is concentrated around the piping system of the main installations called also technical block in a co ordinate and functional whole. prefabricated panels, meant to speed up the construction of the inner partition walls of a building, or of at least part of such walls, are already widely oin. A type of panel at present in use comprises for example slabs of gypsum board, fixed onto a supporting metal structure, with the eventual interposition of an insulating core, made for example of rock wool. These panels are mounted onto a metal carrying framework, previously anchored to the concrete structure of the building. The con nection points between adjacent panels are covered with gypsum s oth ing. Tllis type of panel has however several drawbacks to start with, it is fragile its edges, or even the entire panel, may easily br ak dozing transport, or else when handling the same during assembly, the metal carrying framework and the corresponding connection points for1 as many gaps in the wall, especially for what concerns its characteristics of thermal and acoustical insulation it requires, in any case, the application of a superficial protective and finishing layer, to be applied after complete mounting of the panels, and this may even involve lining with tiles, for example in the bathroom area. A further known type of prefabricated panel, having in turn a sandwich structure, comprises tqo sheets of thin laminated plastic for instance of a thickness between ten and twelve tenths of a ralil limeter containing an insulating layer, consisting for example of bakelized honey comb board. Also these panels are mounted onto a metal carrying framework. The connection points between adjacent panels are covered by metal or wooden fillet joints. Compared to the previously mentioned type, these panels essentially have the advantage of providing a surface which especially if used for partitions inside offices can be considered as substan tially finished. For flat concerns the rest, they equally leave the drawback of a scarce impact strength and of an insufficient tliernal and acoustical insulation. They moreover have scarce fire resisting properties. They are furthermore totally unfit for application particularly in the services area, in that tlicy are scarcely resisting to later and to dampness in general, and on the other hand, they are aiso not apt to support a damproof lining of the type with tiles. Also other types of commercially known prefabricated pancls more particularly designed for the construction of partition walls for offices essentially comprise the characteristies heretoforespe cified, of a differently composed sandwich structure mounted onto a metal carrying framework. For what concerns more specifically the construction of service rooms, prefabrication as initially limited to the construction of the already cited technical blocks , that is, of single blocic units containing the basic sanitary installations, apt to be connected itI a few operations to the risers and drain pipes, or else already incorporating some sections thereof. Blocks of this type may generally contain, in addition to all the pipes and connections required for connecting the various sanitary apparatuses, drain traps, water drain and hot water tanks, conditioning or air ventilation erstems, and or electric systems. Such blocks leave been found in practise very useful, in that they actually reduce to a considerable extent the amount of time and labor required in the building yard for arranging all the connections for the sanitary apparatuses. The block eventually incorporating also the risers and drain pipes is in fact placed at a pre established point of the building and all there is left to do is to connect the sanitary apparatuses thereto. ore recently, further solutions have however been proposed, consisting in the prefabrication of complete cabins , that is, of unitary assemblies of walls, sanitary apparatuses and respective pipes, forming a service room. Known solutions of this type are being sold by the Italian fins MONTEDIL and ICS, as well as by the German firm II.G. OLLER. They u sually comprise a shell of plastic material as fiberglass reinforced plastic or methacrylate formed in two or more roulds, wherein the actual wall of plastic material is moulded so as to obtain therein, in one piece therewith, also the sanitary apparatuses, or any other containment or carrying spaces. The inner surface of the walls forming said shell is perfectly smooth and finished. Whereas on the out er wall, the surface of which is instead rough, all the connecting pipes are applied. Single block cabin units thus realized are positioned in the building structure then it is still ithout partition walls, they are connected to the risers and drain pipes, thereupon curtain ills or sheathing or covering alls are leant against the rough walls of the cabin. Of course, a single block assembly of this type which is car ried to the building yard for instance by motor transport, then lifted by crane and positioned in its final position has the great advantage of reducing the construction times in the building yard of the corresponding service room. Nevertheless, it is not free from drawbacks. To start with, on account of its bulk since it is in practise a complete roon, though small and of its weight, it requires special equipment both for its transport from the factory to the building yard and for its lifting and positioning. Furthermore, it always requires external curtain or sheathing walls, which evidently reduces the advantage of such a daring prefabrication. On the other hand, in the event of damages to the plant applied on the external part, it is very difficult to operate repairs.Finally, in case of breakage or even of simple damage due to ear of the sanitary apparatuses, their replacement is verv difficult and problematic due to the fact that they are formed in one piece ith the all. A further inconvenience derives from the fact that, since these cabins are produced starting from large moulds which are generally costly, it is practically impossible to produce then in several types and different shapes, hereby the building designer has to adapt the spaces to the structure of the cabin, rather than as it normally happens adapting the service rooln to the general space requirements of the building further types of single block cabins now on the market, or equivalent solutions such as described for example in the Canadian Pa tents No. 928,023 and No. 929,720 substantially provide the same advantages, but also the same drawbacks. A first object of the present invention is now to realize a mo dular panel structure, being greatly improved compared to that of the known technique and providing, in particular excellent characteristics of resistance to mechanical stresses, to ater and to dampness a fundamental self supporting capacity, so as to elininate the r quirement for connecting and carrying metal frameworks a high dimensional precision and at least one perfectly finished surface, so as to allow a rclaarlcaIly simple and quick assembly in particular on account of the characteristics of the laminate, which can be machined with iiighly precise mills it has been possible to eliminate the need for any joint coverings a minimum weight and size, with consequent casiness of transport and of handling during assembly a lower and more constant factor of thermal and acoustical transmission a relatively controlled cost. These and other results are obtained with tie panel structure according to the invention, hich is substantially characterized In that it comprises two thick main slabs of laminated plastic, being ept spaced and mutually glued so as to form a sealed, flat, box like body by thick laminate fillets arranged perpendicularly to the surface of the slabs, along at least their contour, and in that the chamber formed inside said sealed box like body contains pressed insulating material. According to a particular characteristic of tic invention, said spacing fillets are applied along a contour which is set back iii res pect of the edges of the slabs. According to a further important characteristic, at least one of the outer faces of said Fain slabs lias a finished surface. A still further characteristic of the invention lies iii tlie fact that said tiro main slabs comprise, on their faces turning towards t1ie inside of the panel, symmetrically opposed grooves running along said setback contour and into which engage corresponding ribs of the spa cling fillets. To produce such a panel structure, one provides according to the present invention first of all to delimit said setback contour on the upward turning face of a first main laminate slab, positioned flat then to apply along said contour, by means of adhesive, the lower edge of spacing fillets arranged perpendicularly to the first slab to fill the volume confined between said fillets with a layer of insulating material being thicker than the width of said fillets to lay over a second slab, with its inner face turning do nward, applying it also by means of adiiesive onto tile upper edge of the spacing fillets and to finally apply a pressure for tightening the slabs, one against the other and against the fillets, up to complete gluing thereof. Preferably, said setback contour is delimited by the milling of grooves parallel to the edges of the slabs and set back in respect of such edges, the edges of the spacing fillets being engaged into said grooves with the interposition of adhesive. After forming the panel structure in the manner heretofore described, one provides to trim its vertical edges, also by milling, forming thereon a shaped profile designed in the juxtaposition of the panels one next to the other, in the manner better described hereinafter to form a groove and tongue connection between said panels. In the manner heretofore described, the present invention allows to form, on one hand, flat panel structures of modular dimension and, on the other hand, functional panel structures such as corner panels or panels for T connections with which the first ones combine into a perfectly stable self supporting whole. A further aspect of the present invention consists in using the aforedescribed prefabricated panel structures in tie building field and, in particular, for the construction of service rooms for tjiis purpose, one first of all places and fixes on the floor a guide defining the perimetcr of the service room, then the single panels are brought kith their lower edges into engagement smith said guide and with their side ly side lateral edges into mutual engagement, after which a connecting guide is applied in correspondence and along the upper edges of the panels thanks to the fact tliat the spacing fillets are set back in respect of the edges of the panels, a compart ment housing the service piping system is formed at least along the vertical, side by side lateral edges. Thus conccived, the structure according to the present invent ion, as cell as its method of use, provide compared to known techni que a great number of advantages to start with, the single panels can be industrially produced com plete of their respective means of mutual connection and anchorage and with fully finished surfaces on the other hand, for tiie finish ing of such surfaces, one may adopt any building or industrial techniques allowing to obtain the best characteristics according to the use foreseen for the panels for residential houscs, for hotels or for other large building complexes3 and so on moreover, said panels form in practise wall elements of modular di mansions, which ray be differently composed according to the structural and dimensional requirements of the project, so as to allow the most varied arrangements of service rooms such panels, having essentially flat and smooth surfaces, may be easily piled up and paclced with a minimum bulk this forms a further advantage both for their storage in a very anall space, and for their transport and or lifting in tlle building yard the setting up in the building yard is extremely fast, not only on account of the modest light of the panels, but especiall due to tlIe fact that, on one hand thanks to their high dimensional precision and, on the other hand, due to tie complete absence of supplementary connecting and carrying frameworks, it is possible to carry out the assembly very easily almost as if it ere a constructions game out having to provide for any adjustments or arrangements in the build ing yard, including the connection of pipelines, especially electric lines, into the vertical or horizontal spaces formed, as saicl, by the spacing fillets which are set back in respect of tie dges of of the panels thanks to the means of mutual connection and support, the set of panels thus assembled results perfectly rigid and stable, substantial ly like a group of stone walls.To set working tile service room enclosed therein, it is sufficient to clinic the various sanitary apparatuses in correspondence of connection points and connect them ith corresponding pipelines, provided in the technical bled , through passages suitably arranged into one of the panels leaning against the technical block . Furtller characteristics and advantages of tlle structure according to the present invention will anyhow result evident from the following description of some preferred embodiments thereof, given how ever by mere way of non limiting example and illustrated in the ac companying dra.ings, in which Fig. 1 is a partial schematic horizontal section view of two juxtaposed panels Fig. 2 is a partially sectioned plane view of a panel Fig. 3 is a partial section view of the three elements of laminated plastic which forn the panel Fig. 4 is a partially sectioned elevation view of a pair of assembled juxtaposed panels Fig. 5 is a partial head view of a panel, in correspondence of the point of anchorage to the floor Fig. 6 is a horizontal schematic section view of a panel forming a corner Fig. 7 is a horizontal sciiematic section view of a panel having the form of a T or â double T connection Fig. 8 is a schematic plan view of a possible arrangement of a service area realized with the panels according to the invention Fig. 9 is a horizontal section view, on an enlarged scale, of the association of some of the panels used in the arrangement of fig. Fig. 10 is a schematic plan view of a different arrangement of a service area, inserted in a udder complex designed for hotel use Fig. 11 is a schematic elevation view of a partition wall used in the complex of fig. 10 and Fig. 12 is a partial schematic vertical section view, on an enlarged scale, of the same wall of fig. 11 and of the respective an coring system. As shown, the panel according to the present invention is form ed by a pair of thick main slabs 1 and 2 of laminated plastic. By the term laminated plastic is meant at present a sheet product made up starting from sheets of high quality cellulose, with high mechanical strength, imbued with a mixture of phenolic resins, superposed and pressed. Preferably, use is also made of a sheet of cellulose or else of fabric, or even of veneering of wood, cork or the like imbued with melaminic resin and on which an ornamental design may eventually be reproduced, forming a superficial layer, applied on one or on both faces of the laminate and having a decorative function.Such plastic laminates have been up to date produced in thick nesses usually not rider than ten to twelve millimeter tenths, and they have exclusively been used as sheets for covering and protecting a carrying structure, for example of wood. Whereas, the 11thick laminated plastic is a laminate produced substantially with the same technique as described above, but sufficiently thick for instance, 5 to 12 mm to become, to a more or less large extent, self supporting. A thick laminate of this type, though of very particular conformation, has been proposed in the Italian Patent application No. 24066 A 80 filed on 8th August 19SO in the name of the same Applicant. The panel according to the present invention uses the two laminated plastic slabs 1 and 2, rdth the interposition of a layer 3 of insulating material, consisting for example of pressed cork. ccordin to the invention, this insulating layer is delimited along its entire contour, by fillets 4, also, made of thick laminated plastic. Figures 1 and 2, but more particularly figure 3, show o . to assemble the aforementioned elements 1, 2, 3 and r. The faces of tic slabs 1 and 2 turning towards the inside of the panel are provided to delimit the contour enclosing the insulating layer 3 ith grooves 1 and 2 , into which engage the fillets 4 with their opposed edges if the grooves 1 and 2 are wide enough3 or, preferably, smith ribs 4 formed on their edges. The grooves lt, 2 and the ribs 4 are formed by milling, and this taking into account the highly compact and hard structure of the laminate allows an execution of high dimensional precision, to the full advantage of the subsequent assembly and gluing operations. In practise, to construct the panel one proceeds as follows the slab 1 is positioned flat, with its inner face turning upwards, and adhesive is spread thereon, for instance cold adhesive of the 536 spray type produced by the firm AREC. The fillets 9 are then applied, and their respective ribs 4t are engaged into the grooves 1 . The space delimited by the fillets 4 is filled with insulating material preferably formed by cork sheets or the like up to a thiclcness slightly exceeding the width of the fillets 4. Finally, the slab 2 is positioned thereon, being in turn previously spread with adhesive on its inner face, causing the ribs 4 of the fillets to get engaged into the grooves 2 .The panel thus formed is then subjected to pressure so as to press in particular the insulating material and during this step the adhesive firmly sets. In practise, it has been found that the engagement of the ribs 4 into the grooves 1 and 2 is not strictly indispensable, but the fillets may simply abut against the inner faces of the slabs 1 and 2 and be directly glued hereto. In this case it will evidently be necessary to provide means for temporarily keeping the fillets in a correct position, during pressing of the panels. The result is anyhow a panel wiiich mainly on account of the bozc lilce structure formed by the slabs 1 and 2 and by the fillets 4, but also owing to the compactness of the interposed insulating raterial is perfectly rigid and self supporting. On the other hand, due to the ver absence of any metal carrying frameworks, sucli a panel is also extremely light and handy. An important characteristic of the panels according to the invention lies moreover in the fact that the fillets .t are set back in respect of the edges of the slabs 1 and 2, so that when ts o panels are Juxtaposed, a chamber S clearly shown in figure 1 is formed therebetween, said chamber being apt to house service pipelines, and particularly electric lines. For connecting several panels in succession in order to form an entire wall their vertical edges may be subjected to a further finishing operation, zilch consists in forming cog rib profiles Z each pair of profiles is apt to engage, by simple cogging, with a pair of mating profiles formed on the opposite side of each adjacent panel as shown particularly in figure 1 . This cogging allows to obtain a perfect airtight and watertight connection, without requiring the application of joint coverings. Figures 4 and 5 show how the panels are fixed one to the other into a wall structure. For this purpose, a guide 5 is placed on the floor firmly fixed by any known system, for example by riveting comprising a metal rectangular section as shown in figure 5 or an omega section, or the like. To start ith, each panel is positioned onto this guide 5, so that its bottom fillet 4 ray substantially rest on tlle top of such guide, while the edges of the slabs 1 and 2, which extent beyond said fillet 4, brace the guide 5 itself, as clearly shown in figure 5. Once a first panel P has been thus positioned, it will be simply anchored to the guide 5 with a bracket 6. This latter is fixed on one side, by means of a screw 7 or rivet or the like, to the top of the guide 5, and on the other side it is fixed to the vertical fillet 4 of the panel P by means of scrcws screwed into holes 6 . The adjacent panel P is positioned onto the guide 5 in the same way, being brought close to the panel P up to mutual connection of tlic cog rib profiles t , so as to guarantec the correct anchoring of the panel P to the side of the panel r. At its opposite side not shown in figure 4 the panel P is then fixed with a bracket 6, in an identical way as described hereabove. as as seen, each panel is fixed td the floor with a single bracket, its correct anchorage being furthermore guaranteed by the clogging of the vertical edges of the single juxtaposed panels. For what concerns the anchoring at the top of each panel, this can be obtained in a similar lay than done for the base, through a.guide synnetrical to the guide 5, especially when having to compose alls for a relatively compact service area, such as described hereinafter with reference to figure 8. Whereas, in the event of having to assemble a relatively long rectilinear wall without any transversal supports, a top anchoring system of the type described hereinafter with reference to figures 11 and 12 will be adopted. Figure 6 shows a panel forming a corner. As can be seen, the fundamental structure is essentially the same as seen with reference to figure 1, that is, with slabs 1 and 2 of laminated plastic enclosing a thick layer 3 of pressed cork or other insulating material. Each corner panel is however formed by two rectilinear panel parts, in each of which the contour of the insulating layer is defined by the heretofore described fillets 4 only on three sides of the panel, while in correspondence of the vertical corner side, the said layer is delimited by a wooden upright 8. This upright 8 has a double function on one hand, it is in fact apt to reinforce the panel just in correspondence of its corner position, which is the most stressed part of structure on the other hand, it is also apt to facilitate the mutual gluing of the two rectilinear panel parts, which gluing is carried out along the dashed line X X. Figure 7 shows a panel in the form of a T or a double T connection. This panel is used, as better illustrated hereinafter, for the construction of a rectilinear wall, to which are perpendicularly connected other walls. In the structure of figure 7, the main rectilinear panel r incorporates in correspondence of the positions of connection to the walls perpendicular thereto a wooden upright 9, in replacement of the cork layer 3. A lath 10, also of wood, is furthermore applied by gluing or even by screws or other known suitable means on the outer face of the panel, in correspondence of the upright 9. The lath 10 is used as guiding element for a panel section 11, forming the beginning of a perpendicular all, and it acts just like the guide 5 used to anchor the panel to the floor. In fact, the section 11 is brought into engagement with the lath 10, so that the fillet 4 comes in contact with the lath and tiie ends of the slabs 1 and 2, extending beyond the fillet 4, can embrace the sides of the lath 10. The panel section 11 thus results perfectly positioned. For anchoring the section 11 to the main panel 1, opposed holes 12 and 13 are provided, at regular distances, on tie fillets 4 of the section 11 itself. A first smaller hole 12 is used for the passage of a screw 14 or the like, which anchors the section onto the lath 10 and onto the upright 9, while a second larger hole 13 is used for letting through a tool to drive in the screw 14. It should be noted that the corner panel, as well as the T or double T panel, is assembled at the factory, and not in tile building yard, whereby assembly can be done with the highest possible precision. Figures 3 and 9 sho a way of using the panels described so far.Figure 3 shows a possible arrangement of a services area, surround ing a volume V containing the delivery and drain pipes. On one side of the volume V is formed a bathroom 3, while on the other side there is a kitchen C with sink 15 and cooker 16, and on the third side there is room for a cupboard A. All the hatched contour represents the partition walls formed with the panels according to the invention. Figure 9 shows more in detail how the various types of panels are associated to realize a wall arrangement as that shown in figure One can actually see rectilinear panels r, corner panels 1 and a double T panel F2, which latter is used to anchor tic walls delij ii ting tlle technical volume V. Figure 10 shwos a different structural arrangement, of the twin t,pe, designed for hotel use. It will be noted that with the panels according to the present invention it ispossible to realise, not only bathroom areas , placed by twos and each having a technical volume V of their own, or eventually some cupboard elernents A, but also the entire partition walls D between one room and the next. However, for these partition alls D, two additional problems have to be faced in fact, on one hand, since tills rectilinear all is relatively long and has no transversal bracing connections, it is indispensable to provide for anchoring means not only at floor level but also at the ceiling on the other hand, since these partition walls are actually designed to separate hotel rooms, higher soundproofing conditions may be required than those foreseen between service areas and rooms of the same living space. The first of these problems is solved in the way shown in figure 11, and more in detail in figure 12, taking also into account the fact that, while the construction of the panels at the factory may be car ried out with high dimensional precision, viceversa the concrete struc tures or the building structures in general have rather wide toleran ces. In view of this fact, it is foreseen to construct the panels with a height about 5 cm below the room height planned in the building pro ject. The panels are then fixed at the base by being placed astride of a metal guide, in the nanner heretofore described. At the top, the panels are fixed by means of extending brackets 18 which are anchored directly to the ceiling at regular intervals.These brackets 18 may be simple L shaped metal bracket. Alternatively, one may use brackets r.lade of rubber or other similar resilient material, adapting inore easi ly by mere elastic deforlation to the distance differences between the ceiling and the top of the panels. For what concerns instcad the second problem, namely a rore cffi cient soundproofing, this is solved according to the present inven tion by using a couple of shortly spaced panels, as illustrated in the constructive variant of figure 12. In this case, a bottom guide is used, formed by a pair of parallel ribs SA and 5B, connected by a flat intermediate portion 5C. On this flat portion 5C are set the means of anchorage to the floor, for example expansion screws 20, while the panels are placed astride of the ribs 5A, SB. At the top ends, after having fixed the panels by means of the bracket 18, the space lying between the top of the panels and the surface of the ceiling is filled with insulating material L, for example rock tool. Both sides of the double wall thus formed are then closed by masking frames 19. The frames 19 may have any configuration and be fixed by any suitable means of Icnown type, whereby it seems unnecessary to give a detailed description of such means. intermediate space between the panels forms a practically sealed air chamber. The practical tests carried out on the panels produced according to the present invention have given fully satisfactory results. In actual fact, even if using for the main slabs 1 and 2, lami nates of a relatively limited thickness that is, of about 5 o m, instead of the 9 10 nim specified for example in the aforecited patent application No. 24066 A 30 the panel offers surprising features of stiffness and mechanical strength. On the other hand, it is light and handy. On account of its method of construction, the panel according to the invention provides furthermore very precise and uniform dimensional and qualitative characteristics, and this considerably facilitates the assembly operations in the building yard. It has been found in practice that, for constructinO for example a bathroom, the construction time is reduced up to 70,0 compared to the traditional systems. Moreover, the aforecited dimensional and qualitative characteristics are permanent in time, whereby there is no fear at all of any yieldings or deformations. The panel is in fact resisting to impact, abrasion and chemical etching it is liquid proof and thereby perfectly resisting to dampness which is normally present in services areas it is furthermore quite fire resisting. The panels according to the invention slave a good soundproofing or deadening po er. With a panel of the type illustrated in figure 1, about 1,0 50 n tliick, an absorption of about 32 35 db has been observed, while a lall ith two panels, as the one illustrated in figure 12, has been found to provide an absorption up to 48 db. The high dimensional precision and the cxcellent finishing in the production of these panels allows them to be assembled simply juxta posed, as shown 5n figures 1 and 4, without the need as already said for any joint coverings between one panel and the next. More over, the free space being formed between two juxtaposed panels indicated with S in figure 1 allows the passage of cables, pipes or the like, thereby eliminating the problems and additional costs involved in the prearrangement of canalizations or the like. It should finally be noted that the particularly simple structure of these panels allows them to be produced both of standard nodular dimensions, and of special dimensions on request of the designers, this alloying to satisfy high requirements of flexibility of use.