# Portable building unit.

## Abstract
A portable building unit of the type described compris ing a structural metal frame comprising a pair of lateral vertical sub frames 11a, 11b each of said sub frames including an upper member 12a, 12b and a lower member 13a, 13b , the upper and lower members of each sub frame being interconnected by uprights 14a, 14b , and the lower members 13a, 13b of the sub frames being rigidly intercon nected in spaced apart parallel relation by frame cross members 15 which extend between the lower members and the upper members of the sub frames being intercon nected solely by one or more roof panels 10 each of which extend between and is secured to the upper members 12a, 12b of the sub frames 11a, 11b , a floor structure 30 extending between and being supported by the lower members of said sub frames.

## Claims
CLAi 1. A portable building unit of the type described comprising a structural metal frame 10 comprising a pair of lateral vertical sub frames lla, llb , each of said sub frames including an upper member 12a, 12b and a lower member 13a, 13b , the upper and lower members 12a, 12b, 13a, 13b of each sub frame lla, llb being interconnected by uprights lVa, glib , and the lower members 13a, 13b of the sub frames lla, llb being rigidly interconnected in spaced apart parallel relation by frame cross members 15 which extend between the lower members, and the upper members of the sub frames being interconnected solely by one or more roof panels 40 the or each of which extend between and is secured to the upper members 12a, 12b of said sub frames Ila, llb , a floor structure 30 extending between and being supported by the lower members 13a, 13b of said subframes lla, llb . 2. A unit according to claim 1 wherein said sub frames lla, llb define open sides of the unit whereby two or more similar units may be joined together in side by side relation with full width linking. 3. A unit according to claim 2 wherein one or more side wall panels 50 is or are secured to the outside of an associated vertical sub frame lla, llb so as to provide a unit with a side wall 50 at one or both sides with the members which comprise the associated sub frame lla, llb inside the side walls 50 . 4. A unit according to any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein the or each end of the unit is closed by one or more end wall panels 60 , the or each end wall panel 60 being received substantially entirely within an end opening defined between the sub frames lla, llb so that the members which make up the sub frames lla, llb lie peripherally of the side wall panel or panels 60 and wholly external to the habitable volume of the unit. 5. A unit according to any one of the preceding claims wherein lateral marginal portions of the roof panel 40 and floor structure 30 extend into the end and or side openings defined by said sub frames lla, llb so that the or each roof panel 40 is located below the upper frame members 12a, 12b whereby the upper frame members 12a, 12b are wholly external to the habitual volume of the building. 6. A unit according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the or each roof panel 40 comprises a structural sandwich including an inner metal sheet 41 and an outer timber decking 42 and a timber framework T to which the inner 41 and outer 42 sheets are secured. 7. A unit according to claim 6 wherein the end and or side wall panels 60, 50 are each of similar construction to the roof panel or panels 40 . 8. A unit according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the floor structure 30 comprises a timber decking 31 supported by a plurality of timber joists 32 which extend between and are carried by the lower members 13a, 13b of the sub frames lla, llb , with thermal insulation 33 between such joists 32 supported on suitable panels 34 positioned between the joists 32 , the decking 31 extending across the upper faces of the lower members 13a, 13b of the subframes lla, llb whilst the joists 32 extend between and are secured to the inner faces of such lower members 13a, 13b . 9. A unit according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the upright members 14a, l4b of each sub frame lla, llb are connected to the ends of the upper and lower members 12a, 12b, 13a, 13b of the sub frames lea, llb and the frame cross members 15 which connect the lower members 13a, 13b of the sub frames lla, llb are connected to the sub frames at locations adjacent the lower corners thereof. 10. A unit according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the ends of the upper and lower members 12a, 12b, 13a, 13b are each butted against an upright l4a, 14b and secured thereto. 11. A unit according to any one of the preceding claims wherein lifting attachments 27 are secured to the upper members 13a, 13b or uprights 14a, l4b of each subframe lla, llb .

## Description
Title Portable Building Unit This invention relates to a portable building unit which may be assembled with further similar units to provide a building construction. Each unit is fully factory assembled for delivery to a prepared site in an assembled condition complete with at least floor and roof. More particularly, the or each unit comprises a structural metal frame to which the floor and roof structures are attached. Where such units are to be assembled together to form a multi unit building construction the structural frames are butted or otherwise connected together in the desired arrangement. In the factory or on site end walls and side walls are secured to the frame, one or more of such end or side walls being omitted if required, to permit full width linking or end to end linking of two or more of the units. Such portable building units will hereinafter be described as of the type described . An object of the invention is to provide a new and improved portable building unit of the type described. According to the present invention we provide a portable building unit of the type described comprising a structural metal frame comprising a pair of lateral vertical sub frames, each of said sub frames including an upper member and a lower member, the upper and lower members of each sub frame being interconnected by uprights, and the lower members of the sub frames being rigidly nterconnected in spaced apart parallel relation by frame cross members which extend between the lower members, and the upper members of the subframes being interconnected solely by one or more roof panels, the or each of which extend between and is secured to the upper members of said sub frames, a floor structure extending between and being supported by the lower members of said sub frames. It has been found, that the roof panel or panels can provide sufficient strength to hold the sub frames rigidly apart at their upper ends and thus serve a similar function as a metal frame cross member would. It has been found further, that this construction has advantages compared to conventional structures having metal cross members because cold bridging is reduced, timber being a better insulator than metal, and thus condensation, which can occur in metal framed buildings, is also reduced. Another advantage with this construction is that the structure is considerably simplified and costs in producing such building are accordingly reduced. Said sub frames may define open sides of the unit whereby two or more similar units may be joined together in side by side relation with full width linking, but one or more side wall panels may be secured to the frame so as to provide a unit with walls at one or both sides.Alternatively, or additionally, two or more units may be connected in end to end relation, if required. Preferably, the or each side wall panel is secured to the outside of the associated vertical sub frame so that the members which comprise the associated sub frame are inside the side walls, and the or each end of the unit may be closed by one or more end wall panels. The or each end wall panel may be received substantially entirely within an end opening defined between the sub frames so that the members which make up the sub frames lie peripherally of the side wall panel and wholly external to the habitable volume of the unit. Conveniently the or each end wall panel may be secured directly to the upright members of said subframes. Desirably, lateral marginal portions of the roof panel and floor structure extend into the end and or side openings defined by said sub frames. The or each roof panel may comprise a structural sandwich including an inner metal sheet and an outer timber decking, sandwiching therebetween a thermally insulating infilling. The infilling may be bonded to the inner and outer sheets and may be a rigid foamed or expanded plastics material. The roof panel may have a timber framework, to which the inner and outer sheets are secured. The outer sheet preferably comprises ply wood, and a waterproof membrane may be provided over the roof panel and around the upper frame members to which the roof panel is secured. The end and or side wall panels may be of similar construction to the roof panel or panels described above but the inner sheet may comprise plaster board or the like instead of metal as with the roof panel, if desired. The floor structure may comprise a timber decking supported by a plurality of timber joists which extend between and are carried by the lower members of the subframes, with thermal insulation between such joists, such as a layer of glass fibre or other similar material supported on suitable panels positioned between the joists. Preferably, the decking, which may be of chip board or the like, extends across the upper faces of the lower members of the sub frames, whilst the joists extend between and are secured to the inner faces of such lower members. Conveniently, the lower members and the upper members of the sub frames each comprise channel section rL eams arranged with the webs thereof extending vertically and the flanges extending horizontally although other types of beams may alternatively be utilised. The upright members of each subframe are preferably connected to the ends of the upper and lower members of the sub frames. Such upright members may comprise channel section steel columns although again, other constructions are possible. The ends of the upper and lower members may be each butted against a column and secured to the column in any suitable manner, for example, by means of an angle bracket bolted to the web of the upper or lower member as appropriate and to the inner flange of the channel section column. Lifting attachments may be secured to the upper members or uprights of each sub frame, preferably at respective positions immediately adjacent to the joint between the respective column and upper member. The frame cross members which connect the lower members of the sub frames preferably are connected to the sub frames, at locations adjacent the lower corners thereof. The cross members may each comprise a channel section beam, preferably arranged with the web thereof extending vertically and the flanges directed horizontally. It will be observed that where two units are connected in side by side relationship the floor, roof and end wall structures of the unit are disposed entirely within the metal frame, so that the interior of the unit is free substantially from inwardly protruding beams, and thus aleviating cold bridging which otherwise establishes a heat loss path between the interior of the unit and the metal frame through these structures. The invention will now be described by way of example with reference to the accompanying drawings wherein FIGURE 1 is a partial transverse cross sectional view in a vertical plane through a building unit embodying the invention FIGURE 2 is a partial longitudinal section on a vertical plane FIGURE 3 is a horizontal section through an end wall of the unit, also illustrating the manner in which two adjoining units may be secured together FIGURE 4 is a perspective view of a rigid metal frame on which the building is constructed and FIGURE 5 is a fragmentary side view showing an inside detail of a corner joint in such frame. Referring to the accompanying drawings, a building unit in accordance with the invention comprises a rigid frame 10 as shown in Figure 4, preferably constructed from channel section steel beams. The frame 10 comprises two vertical sub frames lla, llb, each comprising respective upper horizontal beams 12a, 12b and lower horizontal beams 13a, 13b interconnected at their ends by uprights 14a, 14b. The two vertical sub frames lla, llb are connected together by cross members 15 which extend between the lower beams 13a, 13b at positions adjacent but spaced from the uprights 14a, 14b. The upper and lower beams 12a, 12b, 13a, 13b are each of channel shape in cross section and each includes a vertically disposed web 16 see Figure 1 , the upper beams 12a, 12b having outwardly directed horizontal flanges 17 and 18, and the lower beams 13a, 13b inwardly extending flanges 17a, 18a. The uprights 14a, l4b are also of channel shape in section, and each includes a web 19 Figure 5 and outwardly directed flanges 20 and 21. The flanges 17, 18, 17a, 18a, 20 and 21 all incorporate inwardly directed lips. To enable the beams 12a, 12b, 13a, 13b and uprights 14a, 14b to be connected rigidly together, the beams 12a, 12b, 13a, 13b are butted directly against the uprights 11Jb and secured by means of an angle bracket B bolted to the web 16 and flange 20 of the uprights 14a or 14b. Alternatively an end portion of the flanges may be cut away at one side, to enable the end portion of the flange 19 of each upright 14a to be brought into face toface relation with an end portion of the web 16 of the adjacent beam, and the two webs directly bolted together.If desired, a corner plate may additionally be bolted to the webs of the beams and uprights. The cross members 15 are also of channel shape in section, as seen in Figure 5, and each comprises a vertical web 23 with horizontally inwardly directed flanges 24 and 25, each having downwardly directed lips 24 , 25 respectively at their free edges. An end portion 26 of the web 23 is turned inwardly and bolted directly to the web 16 of the adjacent beam 13a, 13b. It will thus be seen that each sub frame lla, llb affords a rectangular aperture defined by the beams 12a, 12b, 13a, 13b and uprights 14a, 14b, for the reception of end and side wall panels as hereinafter described. Lifting eyes 27 are secured to the tops of the uprights 14a, 14b by bolts 27a which engage a turned over lip of the flange 20 thereof, and a reinforcing angle 27b as shown in Figure 2. Referring now to Figures 1 to 3, the unit illustrated includes a floor structure 30 comprising an upper sheet of chip board 31 which rests at its lateral margins on the upper flanges of the lower beams 13a, 13b and is supported on the cross member 15 and further by transversely extending wooden joists 32, which joists are secured directly to the webs 16 of the beams 13a, 13b.Layers of fibre glass or other similar mineral wool insulation 33 are supported between the wooden joists 32 on bitumen impregnated fibre board sheets 34 which themselves rest in position on staples 35 driven into the joists 32. The joists 32 are additionally supported at their ends on angle section members 36 carried by the webs of the lower beams 13a, 13b. To enable the whole structure to be supported on a lorry affording a bed narrower than the overall width of the building unit, longitudinal bars 37 are secured in position beneath the joists 32. A roof panel 40 is secured below the upper beams 12a, 12b by attachment to the lower flanges 17 thereof.The roof panel 40 comprises an inner skin 41 of plastic coated steel and an outer sheet 42 of plywood secured on a timber perimeter framework part of which is shown at T with the space between them filled by a foamed plastics material 43. A waterproof membrane 44 is provided across the upper face of sheet 42, and may also extends around the beams 12a, 12b, although as shown, a cap of weatherproof membrane W caps the beams 12a, 12b in the manner of a trim strip. It can be seen that the vertical sub frames lia, lib of the rigid frame 10 are connected at the bottom by the cross members 15, although no frame parts interconnect the sub frames gila, lib at the top. It has been found, surprisingly, that the roof panels 14 described provide sufficient strength to hold the sub frames lia, iib rigidly apart at their upper ends and thus serve a similar function as a metal frame cross member would. This is particularly due to the perimeter members T of the panels 40. It has been found further, that this construction has advantages compared to conventional structures having metal cross members because cold bridging is reduced, timber being a better insulator than metal, and thus condensation, which can occur in metal framed buildings, is also reduced.Another advantage with this construction is that the structure is considerably simplified and costs in producing such building are accordingly reduced. cured to the frame are end wall panels 50 and side wall panels 60, although one of the end wall panels 50 and or side wall panels may be omitted to enable the unit to be linked to other similar units, to provide a multi, building construction, by bolting the sub frames of such adjacent units directly together to bring the floors and end wall panels of such units into direct abutting relation as shown in Figure 3. The end wall panels 50 are secured to the inside of the uprights 14a, 14b by attachment to the inner flanges 20 thereof so that the panels 50 are received entirely within the metal frame 10. Such end wall panels comprise an outer sheet 51 of coated steel, and an inner sheet of plasterboard 52 secured to a framework of timber members 53 and with a layer of foamed plastics insulation material 54 inbetween. The end and side wall panels 50, 60 add further rigidity to the structure. Where two or more units are linked, an internal trim strip 55 may be provided if desired to cover the joint between adjacent end or side wall panels 60, 50. Whilst one side of the illustrated unit in Figure 3 is left open to provide a full width connection with an adjacent similar unit, the other side is closed by means of a side wall panel 60 Figure 1 attached to the vertical frame lia, externally thereof. The side wall panel 60 is of similar construction to the end wall panel 50 and includes an outer sheet 61 of coated steel, and an inner sheet of plasterboard 62 secured on a timber subframe parts of which are shown at T with foamed insulation material 64 between the inner and outer sheets 62, 61. The edges of the side and end wall panels may be masked by appropriate trim strips, 58, 59, 67, 68 and 69 as indicated. Although not so shown, the end and side wall panels where provided may be equipped with all necessary doors and windows, and the windows may be single or double glazed as required. 0 All required internal fittings, including partition walls, carpeting or other floor covering, and appropriate mains services such as gas, electricity, water supply and sanitation may be provided so that the complete unit may be delivered to a prepared site, ready for use, subject only to securing adjacent units together where necessary and applying internal trim strips as necessary at the joints between adjacent units, and if required external trims. Although not evident from the drawings, the roof structure slopes slightly from end to end, to facilitate drainage. To achieve this, the vertical uprights 1aha, 14b are longer at one end. When two or more units are connected together in end to end configuration, the higher ends may be adjacent, with suitable guttering being provided at the lower ends.