# Novel 4 aroylimidazol 2 ones.

## Abstract
Novel 4 aroylimidazol 2 ones of the following general structure which are useful as antihypertensives, cardiotonics and antithrombotics

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A compound of the formulaEMI28.1 wherein Ar is phenyl monosubstituted at the ortho, meta or para position with X1 X1 is a straight or branched chain lower alkylsulfoxide of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms or a straight or branched chain lower alkylsulfone cf from 1 to 4 carbon atoms R is hydrogen, a straight or branched chain lower alkyl of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, a straight or branched chain lower alkylcarbonyl of from I to 4 carbon atoms, or a benzoyl R1 is hydrogen or a straight or branched chain lower alkyl of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. 2. A compound of claim 1 wherein R is hydrogen. 3. A compound of claim 1 wherein R is hydrogen and R1is hydrogen, methyl or ethyl. 4. A compound of claim 3 wherein X1 is at the para position. 5. A compound of claim 3 wherein X1 is a methylsulfoxide or methylsulfone group. 6. A compound of claim 4 wherein R1 is methyl andX1 is a methylsulfoxide. 7. A compound of claim 4 wherein R1 is methyl andX1 is a methylsulfone. 8. A process for preparing the aroylimidazol 2 ones of claim 1 which consists of a Friedel Crafts acylation of a compound of the formulaEMI29.1 wherein R1 is as defined in claim 1, with about 1 to about 10 molar equivalents of a benzoyl halide monosubstituted at the ortho, meta, or para position with X1 as defined in claim 1, in the presence of about 1 to about 10 molar equivalents of a Lewis acid catalyst in a suitable solvent at a temperature of from about 0 to about 100 C for about 1 to about 10 hours when it is desired that R be other than hydrogen, acylating or alkylating, as appropriate, the resulting aroylimidazol 2 one with an appropriate acyl halide or alkylating agent and where a pharmaceutically acceptable salt is desired, reacting the thus formed aroylimidazol 2 one with an appropriate metal or ammonium basic salt. 9. A process for preparing the aroylimidazol 2 ones of claim 1 which consists of selectively oxidizing a compound of the formula EMI30.1 wherein R and R1 are as defined in claim 1 above and Ar is a benzoyl halide monosubstituted in the ortho, meta, or para position with a straight or branched chain lower alkylthio of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms as appropriate and where a pharmaceutically acceptable salt is desired, reacting the thus formed aroylimidazol 2 one with an appropriate metal or ammonium basic salt. 10. Pharmaceutical composition useful as an antihypertensive, cardiotonic or antithrombotic agent, characterized by a content of a compound according to Claims 1 to 8 and usual carriers, adjuvants and additives. 11. Use of the compounds of Claims 1 to 8 for preparing a pharmaceutical composition according to Claim 10.

## Description
NOVEL 4 AROYLIMIDAZOL 2 ONES This is a continuation in part of copending U.S.application Serial No. 159,048, filed June 13, 1980, which is a continuation in part of U.S. Serial No.119,207, filed February 7, 1980, now abandoned, whIch is a continuation in part of U.S. Serial No. 49,808, filedJune 18, 1979, now abandoned. FIELD OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to 4 aroylimidazol 2 ones their use as antihypertensives, cardiotonics and antithrombotics their pharmaceutical compositions and their preparation. DESCRIPTION OF THE PRIOR ART The closes prior art known to the applicants s found in U.S. patents 2,514, 380 and 2,441,9 3, as well as in R. Duschinsky and L.A. Dolan, J. Am. Chem.. Soc. 68, 2350 55 1946 ibid. 70, 657 62 1948 ibid. 67, 2079 34 1945 and Y.A. Rozin, E.P. Dorienko and Z.V.Pushkareva, Khim. Geterotsikl. Soedin., 4 4 , 698 701 1968 . These references disclose the preparation and chemical intermediate utility of the following compounds 4 benzoyl 1,3 dihydro 2H imidazol 2 one 4 benzoyl 1,3 diacetyl 1,3 dihidro 2H imidazol 2 one 4 benzoyl 1,3 dihydro 5 lower alkyl 2H imidazol 2 one 4 benzoyl 1,3 diacetyl 1,3 dihydro 5 methyl 2H imidazol 2 one 2 one 1,3 diacetyl 1,3 dihydro 4 3,4 dimethylbenzoyl 2H imidazol 2 one 1,3 dihydro 4 hydroxybenzoyl 2H imidazol 2 one 1,3 dihydro 4 hydroxybenzoyl 5 lower alkyl 2H imidazol2 one 1,3 dShydro 4 3,4 dShydroxybenzoyl 2H imidazol 2 one 1,3 dihydro 4 4 nitrobenzoyl 2H imidazol 2 one 1,3 dShydro 4 methyl 5 4 nitrobenzoyl 2H imidazol 2 one, 4 3 aminobenzoyl l,3 dihydro 2H imidaz 4 4 aminobenzoyl l,3 dihydro 2H imidazol 2 one, and 4 4 aminobenzoyl 1,3 dihydro 5 methyl 2H imidazol 2 one, however, no pharmaceutical utility for the 4 aroylimi dazol 2 ones of the present invention has been previously taught. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION This invention is directed to pharmaceutically active 4 aroylimidazol 2 ones of general Formula 1EMI2.1 Formula 1 wherein Ar is 2 furyl, 2 thienyl, phenyl, phenyl monosub stituted at the ortho, meta or para position with X1, or disubstituted phenyl substituted at the para position with X2 and at the ortho or meta position with X3 X1 is halogen, hydroxy, a straight or branched chain lower alkyl of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, a straight or branched chain lower alkoxy of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, a straight or branched chain lower alkylthio of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, trifluoromethyl, a straight or branched chain lower alkylsulfoxide of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, a straight or branched chain lower alkylsulfone of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, SO2N R2 2, NR3R4, pyrrolidino, piperidino, mor pholino, piperazino or N alkyl piperazino X2 and X3 are halogen, hydroxy, a straight or branched chain lower alkyl of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, a straight or branched chain lower alkoxy of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms or when X3 is at the meta position, X2 and X3 taken together may be a methylenedioxy optionally substituted by one or to methyl groups R is hydrogen, a straight or branched chain lower alkyl of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, a straight or branched chain lower alkylcarbonyl of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, or a benzoyl group each of R1, R2, Rg and Ro is hydrogen or a straight or branched chain lower alkyl of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms or a phanniaceutically acceptable salt thereof.These compounds are useful as antihypertensives, cardiotonics and antithrombotics. This invention is directed, furthermore, to the process of preparing the 4 aroylimidazol 2 ones as well as their pharmaceutical compositions. DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODII4ENTS Illustrative examples of a straight or branched chain lower alkyl of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms as used herein are methyl, ethyl, n propyl, isopropyl, n butyl and isobutyl. Illustrative examples of a straight or branched chain lower alkoxy of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms as used herein are methoxy, ethoxy, n propoxy, isopropoxy, n butoxy and isobutoxy. As used herein. the term halogen is taken to mean fluorine, chlorine, bromine or iodine. As used herein, the trm halide is taken to mean fluoride, chloride, bromide, or iodide. As used herein, the term a straight or branched chain lower alkylthio of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms is taken to mean a group of the structure, S alkyl, wherein the alkyl moiety is a straight or branched chain alkyl of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms and may be, for example, methyl, ethyl, n propyl, isopropyl, n butyl or isobutyl. As used herein, the term a straight or branched chain lower alkylsulfoxide of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms is taken to mean a group of the structure, S O alkyl, wherein the alkyl moiety is a straight or branched chain alkyl of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms and may be, for example, methyl, ethyl, n propyl, isopropyl, n butyl or isobutyl. As used herein, the term a straight or branched chain lower alkylsulfone of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms is taken to mean a group of the structure, S O 2alkyl, wherein the alkyl moiety is a straight or branched chain alkyl of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms and may be, for example, methyl, ethyl, n propyl, isopropyl, n butyl or isobutyl. As used herein, the term methylenedioxy optionally substituted by one or two methyl groups is taken to mean methylenedioxy, ethylenedioxy or isopropylidene dioxg. As used herein, the term a benzoyl group is taken to mean a group of the formula CO C6H. As used herein, the term a straight or branched chain lower alkylcarbonyl of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms is taken to mean a group of the structureEMI4.1 wherein the alkyl moiety is a straight or branched chain lower alkyl of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms and may be, for example, methyl, ethyl, n propyl, isopropyl, n butyl or isobutyl. As used herein, the term N 21kyl piperazino is taken to mean a group of the structureEMI4.2 wherein the alkyl moiety is a straight or branched chain lower alkyl of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms and may be, for example, methyl, ethyl, n propyl, isopropyl, n butyl or isobutyl. The preferred compounds of this invention are those compounds of Formula 1 wherein R is hydrogen and X1 is piperidino, pyrrolidino, morpholino, piperazino, N alkylpiperazino, a straight or branched chain lower alkylthio of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, a straight or branched chain lower alkylsulfoxide of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms3 or a straight or branched chain lower alkylsulfone of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms Other preferred compounds of this invention are those compounds of Formula 1 wherein Ar is an unsubstituted phenyl and where X2 and X3 are a straight or branched chain lower alkoxy of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms. The more preferred compounds of this invention are those compounds of Formula 1 wherein R1 is hydrogen, methyl or ethyl and X1 is at the para position and is pyrrolidino, morpholino, piperazino, N alkyl piperazio, a straight or branched chain lower alkylthio of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, a straight or branched chain lower alkylsulfoxide of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms or a straight or branched chain lower alkylsulfone of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms.Other more preferred compounds of this invention are those compounds of Formula 1 wherein R1 is hydrogen, methyl or ethyl and X3 iS at the meta position and whereX2 and X3 are a strait or branched chain lower alkoxy of from 1 to carbon atoms or together are a methylenedioxy optionally substituted by one or two methyl groups. The most preferred compounds of this invention are those compounds of Formula 1 wherein R is hydrogen, R1 is methyl or ethyl and X1 is at the para position and is methylthio, methylsulfoxide or methylsulfone, or whereinR is hydrogen, R1 is methyl or ethyl and X3 is at the meta position and X2 and X, are methoxy or together are a methylenedioxy. As examples of compounds of general Formula 1 there may be mentioned the following 4 benzoyl 1,3 dihydro 5 methyl 2H imidazol 2 one, 1,3 dihydro 4 methyl 5 2 thienoyl 2H imidazol 2 one, 1,3 dShydro 4 methyl 5 3,4 methylenedioxybenzOyl 2H imidazol 2 one, 1, 3 dimethyl 4 benzoyl 2H imidazol 2 one, 1,3 dShydro 4 4 methoxybenzoyl 5 methyl 2Y. imidazol 2 one, 4 benzol 1,3 diactyll,3 dihydro 5 net 2 one 1,3 dihydro 4 3,4 dimetoxybenzoyl 5 methyl 2H imidazol2 one, 1,3 dShydro 4 2 furanoyl 5 ,methyl 2H im.idazol 2 one, 1,3 dihydro 4 2 thienoyl 2H imidazol 2 one, 4 benzoyl 1,3 dihydro 2H imidazol 2 one, 1,3 dihydro 4 2 furanoyl 2H imidazol 2 one, 1,3 dShydro 4 a methoxybenzoyl 2X tmidazol 2 one, 1,3 dShydro 4 4 fluorobenzoyl 5 methyl 2 midazol 2 one, 4 2 chlorobenzoyl 1,3 dihydro 5 methyl 2v. imidazol 2 one, 4 4 chlorbenzoyl 1,3 dihydro 5 methyl 2H imidazol 2one, 1,3 dShydro 4 methyl 5 4 piperidinobenzoyl 2P. imiazol 2 one 1,3 dihydro 4 methyl 5 4 morpholinobenzoyl 2H imidazol2 one, 1,3 dihydro 4 methyl 5 4 pyrrolidinobenzoyl 2X imida zol 2 one, 1,3 dShydro 4 4 dimeth ylaminobenzoyl 5 methyl 2H imiCa zol 2 one, 1,3 dShyaro 4 methyl 5 4 4 methylp perazinobenzoyl 2H imidazol 2 one, 1,3 dShydro 4 ethyl 5 4 meWhoxybenzoyl 2H midazol 2 one, 1,3 dihydro 4 ethyl 5 4 methylthio 2H imidazol 2 one, 1,3 dShydro 4 4 hydroxybenzoayl 5 nethyl 2H imidazol 2 one, and 1,3 dShydro 4 methyl 5 4 methylthio benzoyl3 2 imidazol 2 one. When R is hydrogen in Formula 1 compounds, the several tautomeric forms of general Formula 2 as possible EMI7.1 Formula 2 wherein R1 and Ar are as defined in Formula 1. These acidic tautomers may form pharmaceutically active salts of general Formula 3EMI7.2 Formula 3 wherein 1 and Ar are as defined in Formula 1, and M is a pharmaceutically acceptable alkali metal, such as sodium or potassium alkaline earth metal, such as calcium or magnesium transition meta1 such as zinc or iron main group metal ammonium or organic ammonium ion, such as tetramethylammonium ion.Throughout this disclosure the term imidazol 2 one shall be taken to mean any of the tautomers of Formula 2 and a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of an imidazol 2 one shall be taken to mean any tautomer of Formula 3. The 4 aroyllmidazol 2 ones of this invention whereinR is hydrogen may be prepared by a Friedel Crafts acylation of an imidazol 2 one of Formula 4 EMI8.1 Formula 4 wherein R1 is as defined in Formula 1. The acylating agent may be a 2 furanoyl halide, preferably 2 furanoyl chloride, a 2 thienoyl halide, preferably 2 thienoyl chloride, or a benzoyl halide, preferably a benzoyl chloride, of Formulas 5a, 5b or 5cEMI8.2 Formula 5a Formula 5b Formula 5e wherein Y is a halogen and X1, X2 and X3 are as defined in Formula 1 or may additionally be any group which can be converted to the desired X1, X2 or X3 substituent subsequent to the Friedel Crafts reaction such as a blocking group or a nitro group which can be converted, via the diazonium ion, to a variety q other substituents by chemistry generally known in the art. Furthermore, the Friedel Crafts reaction may be performed on the free acid or its corresponding acid anhydride instead of the aroyl halIdes mentioned hereinabove employing essentially identi cal reaction conditions. These alternate reactions are more fully described in Olah, Friedel Crafts and Related Reactions, Vol. III, Part 1, Interscience Publications,John Wiley and Sons, New York, 1964. The Friedel Craets reactions of this invention are performed by premixing about 1 molar equivalent of the appropriate imidazol 2 one with about 1 molar equivalent to about 10 molar equivalents, preferably about 2 molar equivalents, of a Lewis acid catalyst in a suitable solvent, for example, petroleum ethers a chlorinated hydrocarbon, such as carbon tetrachloride, ethylene chloride, methylene chloride or chloroform a chlorinated aromatic, such as 1,2,4 trichlorobenzene or o dichlorobenzene carbon disulfide or preferably nitrobenzene.About 1 molar equivalent to about 10 molar equivalents, preferably about 1.1 molar equivalents of the appropriate aroyl compound is added3 preferably dropwise, to the mixture of imidazol 2 one, Lewis acid, and solvent and the reaction is allowed to proceed for about 1 2 hour to about 100 hours, preferably from about 1 hour to about 10 hours dpending on the reactants, the solvent, and the temperature which can be from about 780 to about 1500C, preferably about 0 to about 1000C, most preferably about 600C.The resulting aroylimidazol 2 one may be isolated from the reaction mixture by any suitable art known procedure, preferably by quenching the reaction mixture with ice water and subsequently removing the product by filtration or extraction and solvent removal. Lewis acid catalysts suitable for use in the Friedel Crafts reactions described herein are, for example, a metal, such as aluminum, cerium, copper, iron, molybdenum, tungsten or zinc a Bronstead acd such as a phosphoric acid, sulfuric acid, sulfonic acid, or a hydrohalo acid, such as hydrochloric or hydrobromic acid halogen substituted acetic acids, such as chloroacetic or trifluoroacetic acids or a metallic halide, such as a boron halide, zinc chloride, zinc bromide berryl chloride, copper chloride, iron III bromide, iron III chloride, mercury II chloride, mercury I chloride, antimony bromide, antimony chloride, titanium IV bromide, titanium IV chloride, titanium III chloride, aluminum bromide cr preferably aluminum chloride. The compounds of Formula 1 wherein X1 is at the ortho or para position and is a pyrrolidino, piperidino, morpholino, piperazino, N alkyl piperazino and NR3Ra may be prepared as hereinabove described or may be prepared from a suitable fluorobenzoylimidazol 2 one of Formula 6 EMI10.1 Formula 6 wherein R and R1 are as defined above in Formula 1 and the fluorine atom is at either the ortho or para position.The appropriate compound of Formula 6 is allowed to react with from about 1 to about 10 molar equivalents of pyrrolidine, piperidine, morpholine, piperazine or No. alkyl piperazine, as appropriate. This reaction may be performed with or without a solvent, preferably, the amine is the solvent as well as the reactant. Suitable solvents3 if desired, for this reaction are, for example, dimethylformamide dimethylsulfoxide petroleum ethers chlorinated hydrocarbons, such as chloroform, methylene chloride, or carbon tetrachloride carbon dislufide ethereal solvents, such as dimethyl ether, tetrahydrofuran or dioxan aromatic solvents such as benzene, toluene or xylene or alcoholic solvents, such as ethanol.The reaction is allowed to proceed for about 1 2 hour to about 48 hours, preferably about 24 hours, depending on the reactants, the solvent if any, and the temperature which can be from bout 0 to about l500C. The compounds of Formula 1 wherein X is an amino group of the formula, NR3R4, and wherein R3 and R4 are as defined in Formula 1, may alternatively be prepared from the corresponding nitro substituted benzoylimidazol2 ones of Formula 7EMI10.2 Formula 7 wherein R and R1 are ae defined in Formula 1. The compounds of Formula 7 are either. known in the prior art or may be prepared by Friedel .Crafts acylation of an imidazol 2 one of Formula 4 with a nitro substituted benzoyl halide, preferably a nitro substituted benzoyl chloride by procedures analogous to those outlined above. The nitro group is reduced to the unsubstituted amino group by any suitable art known procedure and subsequently, if desired3 the unsubstituted amino may be alkylated by any appropriate art known method. The nitrobenzoylimizazol 2 ones may suitably be converted to the corresponding aminobenzoylimidazol 2 ones by reduction with tin, zinc, iron or other suitable active metal in concentrated hydrochloric acid solution. About 1 molar equivalent to about 10 molar equivalents of the metal. is used and the reaction is allowed to proceed for about 1 2 hour to about 10 hours, preferably about 2 or 3 hours depending upon the reactants and the temperature which can be from about 250 to about 1500C, preferably about 1000C. Alternatively, the nitrobenzoylimidazol 2 ones may be reduced catalytically with nickel, platinum, pallidium, or other similar suitable metals and molecular hydrogen.Such reactions are typically performed in an alcooholic solvent, preferably ethanol, but any nonreactive solvent may be used and the amount of metal catalyst may vary from about 0.001 molar equivalents to about 0.1 molar equivalents. The reaction is allowed to proceed for about 1 minute to about 1 hour, preferably about 10 minutes depending upon the reactants, the solvent and the temperature which can be from about 0 to about 1000C, preferably about 250C. And alternatively, the nitrobenzoylimidazol 2 ones may be reduced with ammonium bisulfide NHJSH in aqueous ammonia.About 1 to about 10 molar equivalents, preferably about 3 molar equivalents, of the bisulfide is allowed to react for about 1 2 hour to about 10 hours, preferably about 2 hours, depending upon the reactants and the temperature which may be from about 0 to about 1500C, preferably about 500C. Finally, the nitrobenzoylimidazol 2 ones may be reduced to the corresponding amino compounds by any other appropriate art known procedure. The alkylation of the unsubstituted aminobenzoylimidazol 2 ones may be accomplished, for example, by reaction with one or more equivalents of an appropriate alkyl halide of the formulas R3X and R4X wherein R3 and R4 are as defined in Formula 1 and X is a halide.Typically these reactions are preformed in a solvent such as petroleum ethers chlorinated hydrocarbons such as carbon tetrachloride, chloroform or methylene chloride chlorinated aromatics such as 1,2,4 trichlorobenzene, o dichlorobenzene or chlorobenzene carbon disulfide nitrobenzene dimethylformamide dimethylsulfoxide ethereal solvents such as diethyl ether, tetrahydrofuran or E dioxan aromatic solvents such as benzene, toluene or xylene alcohols such as methanol, ethanol or propanol and aqueous alcohols such as aqueous ethanol. These alkylations are preferably performed in the presence of one or more equivalents of a proton sponge such as triethylamine, pyridine, sodium hydroxide, calcium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide to neutralize any hydrohalide as it is formed. Alternatively, the unsubstituted aminobenzoylimidazol 2 . ones may be alkylated by any other appropriate art known procedure such as reaction with formic acid and formaldehyde to form a dimethylamine compound. Furthermore, a variety of other substitutents such as halogen and hydroxy may be prepared from the nitro substituted benzoylimidazol 2 ones of Formula 7 via the diazonium ion by procedures well known in the art. The compounds of Formula 1 wherein X1 or X2 and X3 are hydroxy may be prepared as hereinabove described or preferably may be prepared from a suitable alkoxy, preferably methoxy, substituted benzoylimidazol 2 one wherein the alkoxy group is at the position of desired hydroxy substitution. The alkoxy compound is cleaved to form the corresponding hydroxybenzoylimidazol 2 one by any suitable art known procedure such as are taught byR. L. Burwell, The Cleavage of Ethers Chem. Rev. 54, 615 85 1954 . whose contents are hereby expressly incorporated by reference. The X1, Xz and Xn substituents may be protected as necessary in order to improve the stability of the Formula 5b and 5c reactants or to allow for the acylation of the imidazol 2 one ring nitrogen atoms as described herein without concurrent acylation of any reactive X groups. For example, where Xl, X2 or Xn is hydroxy, an amino group of the formula NHR3 or S02NH2, a benzyl group may be employed to block the otherwise reactive hydroxy or amino groups. The benzyl group may be removed subsequently by, for example, hydrogenolysis with hydrogen over a palladium catalyst or with sodium in liquid armion i a. When desired, one or both of the nitrogen atoms of the imidazol 2 one ring may be substituted with an alkyl group by any art known procedure. Such methods include reacting the appropriate N unsubstituted aroylimidazol2 one or this invention with a base and an alkylating agent in presence of an unreactive solvent. Suitable bases for this reaction can be, for example, a hydride such as sodium hydride or calcium hydride a carbonate or bicarbonate such as sodium carbonate or sodium bicarbonate a phenoxide such as sodium phenoxide an alkoxide such as sodium ethoxide or preferably a hydroxide such as sodium hydroxide.Suitable alkylating agents for this reaction are, for example, an alkyl halide such as methyl chloride, methyl bromide, or methyl iodide or a dialkylsulfate such as dimethylsulfate. Suitable unreactive solvents are, for example, petroleum ethers chlorinated hydrocarbons such as carbon tetrachloride, chloroform, or methylene chloride chlorinated aromatic such as l,2,4 trichlorobenzene, o dichlorobenzene, or chlorobenzene carbon disulfide nitrobenzene ethereal solvents such as diethyl ether, tetrahydrofuran or ioxan aromatic solvents such as benzene, toluene or xylene or preferably the polar aprotic solvents such as dimethylformamide DMF or dimethylsulfoxide DM50 . The reaction is allowed to proceed from about 1 minute to about 1 hour and the temperature may be from about 00 to about 1000C, preferably about 250C. When it is desired that only one of the imidazol .2 one nitrogen atoms be substituted with an alkyl group, the appropriate imidazol2 one is reacted with from about 1 molar equivalent to about 10 molar equivalents of a base, preferably about 1 molar equivalent and with about 1 molar equivalent of an alkylating agent. Utilizing this procedure, both possible monoalkylated nitrogen isomers result. These isomers are separable by conventional art known procedures such as fractional crystallization, fractional distillation, or chromatography.When it is desired that both nitrogen atoms of the imidazoi 2 one ring by alkyl substituted, the appropriate imidazol 2 one is reacted with from about 2 molar equivalents to about 10 molar equivalents of a base, preferably about 2 molar equivalents and from about 2 molar equivalents to about 10 molar equivalents of an alkylating agent, preferably about 2 molar equivalents.Finally, any reactive substituents on the aroyl rings, if present, may become alkylated concurrently. That is, the following X grcupss X OR, NHR3, SO2NH2 and unsubstituted piperazino, are alkylated under identical reaction conditions. If desired3 the alkylation of the aroyl ring sub . stituents may be avoided by the use of suitable protecting groups well known in the art, for example, X OH or NER3 may be benzylated and later deblcoked by hydrogenolysis. When desired, the nitrogen atoms of the imidazol 2one ring may be substituted with an alkylcarbonyl group by any suitable art known procedure. Such methods include reacting the N unsubstituted aroylimidazol 2 ones of this invention with an acyl halide, preferably an acyl chloride such as acetyl chloride, n propanoyl chloride, isopropanoyl chloride or butanoyl chloride. Normally, acylation reactions utilizing acyl halides employ an acid sponge such as triethylamine or pyridine to remove any hydrohalide as it is formed.Furthermore, the corresponding free acid or acid anhydride may be employed instead of the acyl halides. Acylation reactions are generally run without added solvent but may be performed using any nonreactive solvent, for example, petroleum ethers chlorinated hydrocarbons such as chloroform, methylene chloride or carbon tetrchloride carbon disulfide ethereal solvents, such as diethylether, t etrahydrofuran or p dioxan or aromatic solvents such as benzene, toluene or xylene. The reactions are allowed to proceed for about 1 minute to about 100 hours, preferably from about 1 hour to about 10 hours and the temperature may be from about 780 to about 1500C, preferably from 0 to 100 C. Finally, any reactive substituents on the aroyl rings if present, will become acylated concurrently. That is, the following X groups, X OH, NHR3, SO2NH2 and unsubstituted piperazino, are acylated under identical reaction conditions. If desired, the acylation of the benzoyl ring substituents may be avoided by the use of suitable protecting groups well known in the art, for example X OH or NHR3 may be benzylated and later deblocked by hydro genolysis. Alternatively, the compounds of formula 1 wherein X1 is a straight or branched chain lower alkylsulfoxide or alkylsulfone of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms may be prepared by selectively oxidizing an appropriate compound of formula 1 wherein X1 is a straight or branched chain lower alkylthio of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms. Selective oxidation to produce a sulfoxide can be accomplished by reaction with 1 equivalent of hydrogen peroxide and selective oxidation to produce a sulfone can be accomplished by reaction with 2 or more equivalents of hydrogen peroxide. The alkali metal, alkaline earth metal, transition me sAl, main group metal, ammonium or organic ammonium salts of the aroylimidazol 2 ones of this invention may be prepared from a corresponding metal or ammonium basic salt for example an alkoxide, such as sodium methoxide or sodium ethoxide a phenoxide, such as sodium phenoxide hydroxides, such as sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide or a carbonate, such as sodium carbonate, potassium carbonate, zinc carbonate, magnesium carbonate or sodium hydrogen carbonates These reactions may be performed with or without a solvent.Suitable solvents are, for example, lower alcohols, such as methanol, ethanol, isopropanol, nopropanol or n butanol aromatic solvents, such as benzene, toluene or xylene ethereal solvents, such as diethyl ether, tetrahydrofuran or P dioxan and halogenated hydrocarbon solvents, such as chloroform, methylene chloride or carbon tetrachloride. The aroylimidazol 2 one and base are allowed to react for about 1 minute to about 24 hours depending on the reactants and the temperature which can be from about 78 to about 1500C, preferably from about 0 to about 25 C. The aroyl chlorides or their corresponding carboxyl acids, which are required for the Friedel Crafts acylation of this invention, are either generally available in the art or may be prepared by analogous procedures.The imidazol 2 one starting materials of Formula 4 may be prepared as described by or adapted from R. Duschinsky and L. A Dolan, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 67 2079 1945 , R. Duschinsky and L. A. Dolan, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 68, 2350 1945 or U.S. Patent 2,448,9 3. The c mpounds of general Formula I may be used in the treatment of cardiac failure including congestive heart failure, backward heart failure, forward heart failure, left ventricular heart failure, or right venWri cular heart failure or in the treatment or any other condition which requires the strengthening of heart action with a cardiotonic. in many respects these compounds possess diaitalis like action. The compounds of generalFormula 1 may also be used in the treatment of hypertension including primary or essential hypertension, hormonally induced hypertension, renal hypertension and chemically induced hypertension. Finally, the compounds of general Formula 1 may be used as antithrombotics.Thei affect the coagulation of blood by preventing the aagregation of blood platelets, which play a dominant role in thrombotic conditions both in the initial event and at the occlusive stage. Arterial thrombosis, particularly in arteries supplying the heart muscle and brain, is a leading cause of death and disability. The compounds may be administered in various manners to achieve the desired effect. The compounds may be administered alone or in the form of pharmaceutical preparations to the patient being treat2d either orally or parenterally, that is, intravenously or intramuscu laity. The amount of compound administered will vary with the severity of the hypertension, cardiac failure or blood clotting and the mode of administration. For oral administration the antihypertensively effective amount of compound is from about 0.1 mg kg milligrams per kilograms of patient body weight per day to about 500 mg kg of patient body weight per day and preferably from about 50 ma kg of patient body weight per day to about 150 mg kg of patient body weight per day. For parenteral administration the antihypertensively effective amount of compound is from about 0.01 mg kg of patient body weight per day up to about 150 mg kg or patient body weight per day and preferably from about 1.0 mg kg of patient body weight per day up to about 10.0 mikg of patient body weight per day. For oral or parenteral administration the cardiotonically effective amount of compound is from about 0.1 ma kg of patient body weight per day up to about 500 mg kg of patient body weight per day and preferably from about 0.1 rng kg of patient body weight per day up to about 10.0 mg kg of patient body weight per day.For oral or parentaral administration the anticoagulant effective amount of com pound is from about O.1 meikg of patient body weight per day up to about 1000 mg kg of patient body weight per day and preferably from about 1 m kg of patient body weight per day up to about 100 mg kg of patient body weight per day. For oral administration a unit dosage may contain, for example, from 10 to 100 mg of these active ingredient.For parenteral administration a unit dosage may contain, for example, from 5 to 50 mg of the active ingredient.Repetitive daily administration of the compounds may be desired and will vary with the condition of the patient and the mode of administration. As used herein the term patient is taken to mean a warm blooded animal, for example, birds, such as chickens and turkeys, and mamma is, such as primates, humans, sheep, horses, bovine cows and bulls, pigs, doqs, cats, rlats and mice. For orat administration the compounds can be for mulated into solid or liquid preparations such as capsules, pills, tablets, troches, powders, solutions, suspensions or emulsions. The solid unit dosage forms can be a capsule which can be of the ordinary gelative type containing, for example, lubricants and inert filler, such as lactose, sucrose, and cornstarch. In another embodiment the compounds of general Formula 1 can be tableted with conventional tablet bases such as lactose, sucrose, and cornstarch in combination with binders, such as acacia, cornstarch or gelatin, disintegrating agents suc as potato starch or alginic acid, and a lucri cant such as stearic acid or magnesium stearat. For parenteral administration the compounds may be administered as injectable dosages of a solution or suspension of the compound in a physiologically acceptable diluent with a pharmaceutical carrier which can be a sterile liquid such as water and oils with or without the addition of a surfactant and other pharmacoutically acceptable adjuvants. Illustrative of oils which can be employed In these preparations are those of petroleum, animal, vegetable, or synthetic origin, for example, peanut oil, soybean oil, and mineral oil. In general, water, saline, aqueous dextrose and related sugar solu tions, ethanol and glycols such as propylene glycol or polyethylene glycol are preferred liquid carriers, particularly for injectable solutions. The compounds can be administered in the form of a depot injection or implant preparation which may be formulated in such a manner as to permit a sustained release of the active ingredient. The active ingredient can be compressed into pellets or small cylinders and implanted subcutaneously or intramuscularly as depot injections or implants . Implants may employ inert materials such as biodegradable polymers or synthetic silicones, for example Silastic, silicone rubber manufactured by the Dow Corning Corporation. The following specific examples further illustrates the preparation and use of compounds employed in the instant invention. EXAMPLE 1 1,3 Dihydro 4 4 fluorobenzoyl 5 methyl 2H imidazol 2 one To a stirred mixture of 98.1 g I mole of 1,3dihydro 4 methyl 2H imidazol 2 one, 266.7 g 2 mole of anhydrous aluminum chloride and 500 ml of nitrobenzene is added dropwise over 10 minutes, 158.6 g 1 mole of p fluorobenzoyl chloride. The mixture is stirred at 60 650C for 6 hours, then poured on 2 kg of ice. The resulting precipitate is washed with dimethyl ether and water and is recrystallized from 1.2 liters of dimethylformamide to give 131 g of the title compound. M.P. 289 2920c. EXAMPLE 2 1.3 Dihyydro 4 methyl 5 4 1 piperidinyl benzoyl 2H imidazol 2 one A suspension of 11.0 g 0.05 mole of 1,3 dihydro4 4 fluorobenzoyl 5 methyl 2H imidazol 2 one in 30 ml. of piperldine is stirred at reflux temperature for 24 hours. Excess piperidine is evaporated under reduced pressure and the residue is recrystallized twice from a mixture of isopropanol and water to give 11.9 g of the title compound. M.P. 260 2630C. EXAMPLE 3 1.3 Dihydro 4 methyl 5 4 4 moroholinyl benzoyl 2Himidazol 2 one Following the procedure of Example 2 but substituting morpholine for piperidine, the title compound is obtained.M.F. 283 286 C. EXAMPLE 4 1,3 Dihydro 4 4 dimethylamino benzoyl 5 methyl 2Himidazol 2 one A mixture of 11.0 g 0.05 mole of 1,3 dihydro 4 4 fluorobenzoyl 5 methyl 2H imidazol 2 one, 100 ml of 30 aqueous solution of dimethylamine and 200 ml of ethanol is heated in a pressure bomb at 130 135 C for 22 hours.The mixture is cooled, the solid is collected and recrystallized from isopropanol water to give the title compound. M.P. 310 C. max methanol 364 nm 23,300 . EXAMPLE 5 1,3 Dihydro 4 4 hydroxybenzoyl 5 methyl 2H imidazol 2 one To a melt of 26 g 0.23 mole of pyridine hydro chloride at 200 205 C is added 5.3 g 0.023 mole of 1,3dihydro 4 4 methoxybenzoyl 5 methyl 2H imidazol 2 one and the mixture is stirred mechanically for 30 minutes.The reaction mixture is poured on ice 2NHCl. The resulting precipitate is washed with water and recrystallized from isopropanol water to give the title compound. M.P. 300 C max methanol 320 nm 13,200 . EXAMPLE 6 1,3 Dihydro 4 methyl 5 4 methylthio benzoyl 2H imidazol 2 one A solution of 25.0 g or 4 methylthio benzoic acid and 22 ml of thionyl chloride in 50 ml of benzene is refluxed for 4 hours. Excess reagent and solvent Is evaporated and the residue is azeotroped 3 times with benzene to remove all thionyl chloride. The residue is added dropwise to a mixture or 11.8 g of 1,3 dihydro 4 methyl 2H imidazol 2 one, 40,0 g of anhydrous aluminium chloride and 100 ml of nitrobenzene. The resulting mixture is stirred at 60 65 C for 5 hours, poured on ice and the precipitate that forms is collected, washed with ethyl ether and water, and recrystallized from isopropanol water to give the title compound. M.P. 255 258 C. dec. . EXAMPLE 7 1,3 Dihydro 4 4 methoxybenzoyl 5 methyl 2H imidazol 2one To 19.6 g of 1,3 dihydro 4 methyl 2H imidazol 2 one and 53.2 g of anhydrous aluminum chloride in 150 ml of nitrobenzene is added dropwise 34.2 g of o methoxybenzoyl chloride and the mixture is poured on 500 ml of 2N HCl and ice, washed 3 times with ethyl ether, the resulting solid is recrystallized from isopropanol water to give the title compound. M. . 257 258 C dec. . EXAMPLE 8 1,3 Dihydro 4 4 methoxybenzoyl 5 methyl 2H imidazol 2one. sodium salt To 7.0 g of 1,3 dihydro 4 4 methoxybenzoyl 5 methyl 2H imidazol 2 one in 100 ml of methanol is added 1.6 g of sodium methoxide. The mixture is heated on a steam bath until homogeneous, filtered and evaporated to dryness.The solid residue is recrystallized from isopropanol to give the title compound. M P. 280 282 C dec. . EXAMPLE 9 4 Benzoyl 1,3 dihydro 5 methylmidazol 2 one To a solution of 3.0 g of 4 methylimidazol 2 one and 8.0 g of aluminum chloride in 50 ml of nitrobenzene is added dropwise 4.6 g of benzoyl chloride. The solution is warmed at 60 C for 4 hours, poured over ic water, slurried with ether and the resulting solids filtered and dried to yield the title compound. M.P. 250 540C. EXAMPLE 10 1,3 Dihydro 4 methyl 5 thienoyl 2H imidazol 2 one To a solution of 7.3 g of mothylimidazol 2 one and 10.8 g or aluminum cnloride in 150 ml of nitrobenzene is added 12.0 g of 2 thienoyl chloride. The mixture is stirred at 60 C for 3 hours, cooled and poured over ice water. The organic portion is extracted into ethyl acetate, dried and the organic solvent evaporated to give the title compound. M.P. 212 215 C. EXAMPLE 11 1,3 Dihydro 4 3,4 dimethoxybenzoyl 2H imidazol 2 one To a solution of 6.5 g of 1,3 dihydro 4 methyl 2H imidazol 2 one and 14.6 g of aluminum chloride in 65 ml of nitrobenzene is added 17.6 g of 3,4 dimethoxybenzoyl chloride in portions. The mixture is stirred for 3 hours at 6Q C, cooled and poured over ice water. The gummy solids are filtered and recrystallized twice from ethyl alcohol water to afford the title compound. M.P. 257 2590C. EXAMPLE 12 1,3 Dihydro 4 2 furanoyl 5 methyl 2H imidazol 2 one To a slurry of 8.9 g of 1,3 dihydro 4 methyl 2H imidazol 2 one and 24.0 g or aluminum chloride in 135 ml of nitrobenzene is added 12.9 g of furanoyl chloride in a dropwise manner. The mixture is stirred at 60 C for 3 hours, cooled and poured over ice water. The solid is then filtered and recrystallized twice from methyl alcohol to afford the title compound. M P. 214 216 C. EXAMPLE 13 1,3 Dihydro 4 2 thienoyl 2H imidazol 2 one In 50 ml of nitrobenzene is combined 13.3 g of aluminum chloride, 4.2 g of 1,3 dihydro 2H imidazol 2 one and 8.1 g of thienoyl chloride. The mixture is stirred at 60 C for 3 hours and poured over ice water.The solids are filtered, washed with ether and recrystal lizd twice from ethanol watsr to afford the title compound. M.P. 339 420C. EXAMPLE 14 4 Benzoyl 1,3 dihydro 2H imidazol 2 one To 51 ml of nitrobenzene is added 1.68 g of 1,3dihydro 2H imidazol 2 one, 5.3 g of aluminium chloride and 3.1 g of benzoyl chloride. The mixture is stirred for 3 hours at 60 C and poured into ice water. The solids are filtered, washed with ether and recrystallized twice from methyl alcohol water to afford the title com pound. M.P. 329 30 C. EXAMPE 15 1,3 Dihydro 4 furanoyl 2H imidazol 2 one To 50 ml of nitrobenzene is added t.2 g of t,3 dihydro 2H imidazol 2 one, 13.3 9 of aluminum chloride and 7.2 g of furanoyl chloride. The mixture is stirred at 60 C for 3 hours and poured over ice water. The solids are filtered, washed with ether and recrystallized twice from ethanol water to afford the title compounds. M.P. 318 3210C. EXAMPLE 16 1,3 Dihydro 4 3,4 methylenedioxybenzoyl 5 methyl 2H imidazol 2 one To 5.13 g. of 1,3 dihydro 4 methyl 2H imidazol 2 one and 7.98 g. of anhydrous aluminum chloride in 80 ml.of nitrobenzene is added dropwise 10.60 g. of v methylenedioxybenzoyl chloride and the mixture is poured on 500 ml. of 2N HC1 and ice, washed 3 times with ethyl ether, the resulting solid is collected to give the title compound. M.p. 293 296 C dec . EXAMPLE 17 1,3 Dihydro 4 4 methoxybenzoyl 1,3,5 trimethyl 2Himidazol 2 one ln 120 ml of OMSO is placed 15.2 g of powdered potassium hydroxide, 8.0 g of 1,3 dihydro 4 4 methoxy benzoyl 5 methyl 2H imidazol 2 one, sodium salt and i9.5 g of methyl iodide. The mixture is stirred at room temperature for 60 minutes and poured into 800 ml of water. Extraction with methylene chloride gives a solid, which is crystallized from ether. M.p. 109 111 C.NMR N CH3 6 protons at 3.3 ppm. EXAMPLE 18 1,3 Dihydro 1 or 3 ,5 dimethyl 4 4 methoxybenzoyl 2H imidazol 2 one To 2.0 g of 1,3 dihydro 4 4 methoxybenzoyl 5 methyl 2H imidazol 2 one in 30 ml of DMSO is added 0.288 g of sodium hydride and 1.22 g of methyl iodide. The mixture is stirred at 220C for 30 minutes, poured into methylene chloride and washed with water. The solvent is dried and evaporated to give an oil which when triturated with chloroform gives a solid. The solid is crystallized from methanol m.p. 225 2280C. Anal. calcd. for C12H14N2O5 C, 63.40 H, 5.73 N, 11.39 Found C, 63.34 H, 5.85 N, 11.21 NMR N Methyl . Singlet at .3.2 ppm. EXAMPLE 19 1,3 Dihydro 4 ethyl 5 4 methylsulfonylbenzoyl 2H imizazol 2 one In 100 g polyphosphoric acid is placed 2.0 g p methylsullonylDbenzoic acid and 1.12 g 1,3 dihydro 4ethyl 2H imidazol 2 one. The mixture is heated to 1500C for 5 hours, cooled and quenched with 1000 ml of water.The title compound, which separates as a solid, is collected and washed with water. By substituting 4 methylsulRinyl benzoic acid for 4 methylsulfonyl benzoic acid in the above procedure, the compound 1,3 dihydro 4 ethyl 5 4 methylsulfinyl benzoyl 2H imidazol 2 one is obtained. EXAMPLE 20Use of 1,3 dihydro 4 4 methoxybenzoyl 5 methyl 2H imidazol 2 one as an antihypertensive 100 mg kg of the title compound is administered orally to six spontaneously hypertensive rats. This does results in a 0 decrease, on the average, in the blood pressure within 15 minutes of administration. EXAMPLE 21Use of 1,3 dihydro 4 4 methoxybenzoyl 5 methyl 2H imidazol 2 one as a cardiotonic Heart fallure is induced in a dog by administering sodium pentobarbitol 20 mg kg or propranalol hydrochloride 3 mg kgt to the blood perfusing the heart.Following administration of either of these cardiac de pressants the right atrlal pressure increased dramatically and cardiac output is severely depressed. Administration of the title compound 1 mg kg reverses the failure as indicated by reversal of the right atrial pressure and cardiac output to near pretreatment levels. EXAMPLE 22Use of 1,3 dihydro 4 4 methoxybenzoyl 5 methyl 2Himidazol 2 one as an antithrombotic When adenosine diphosphate is added to citrated platelet rich human plasma a typical aggregation of blood platelets occurs. However, if the title compoundis added to the citrated platelet rich human plasma in concentrations of 3, 10, 30 and 100 ssg ml and subsequently adenosine diphosphate is added, the aggregation of blood platelets is inhibited 33, 49, 82 and 98 , respectively. EXAMPLE 23Preparation of a Tablet Formulation Per Tablet a 1,3 Dihydro 4 4 methoxybenzoyl 100 mg 5 methyl 2H imidazol 2 one b Cornstarch 15 mg c Lactose 33.5 mg d Magensium stearate 1.5 mg EXAMPLE 24 Prenaration of a Parenteral Formulation a 1,3 Dihydro 4 4 methoxybenzoyl 5 1.000 g methyl 211 imidazol 2 one b Polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate 2.000 g c Sodium chloride 0.128 g d Water for injection qs ad 20.000 ml EXAMPLE 25 1,3 Dihydro 4 Methyl 5 4 methylsulfinylbenzoyl 2Himidazol 2 one To. 20 g of 1,3 dihydro 4 methyl 5 4 methylthio benzoyl 2H imidazol 7 one in glacial acetic acid is added 11.3 g 1.25 equivalents of 30 hydrogen peroxide. The solution is warmed at SOOC for 2 1 2 hours and then allowed to cool overnight. Acetic acid is removed in vacuo to leave the title compound, m.p. 276 278 C dec. . EXAMPLE 26 1,3 Dihydro 4 Methyl 5 4 methylsulfonylbenzoyl 2Himidazol 2 one To 25 g of 1,3 dihydro 4 methyl 5 4 methylthio benzoyl 2H imidazol 2 one in glacial acetic acid is added 34 g 3 equivalents of 30 hydrogen peroxide.The solution is warmed at SOOC for 20 hours. Acetic acid is removed in vacuo to leave the title compound, m.p. 315 318 C dec. .