# A rotating vane pump or motor.

## Abstract
The invention discloses designmeasures to improve the volumetric efficiency of known rotating vane type pumps or motors. A control means 12, 14 is disclosed which mechanical ly controls the radial inward and outward movements of each vane 10 in its slot 9 in the rotor 11 during its rotation along the cylindrical inner running surface 2 of the housing 1 of the machine, in addition to the normal centrifugal force acting on the vanes 10 . Additional springs urging the vanes outward and appropriate wear resisting running and sealing inlays 42 for the vanes sliding over the housing and the endcovers are resealed as well. So are sealingrings 22 or plates between the rotor end faces and the endcovers. All the above measures reducing blow by and wear.

## Claims
CLAIMS l 1. A rotating vane pump or motor provided with a circular cylindrical rotor 8 with slots 9 in which vanes 10 are guided slidingly, which rotor 8 is supported eccentricall in an internally circular cylindrical casing l closed at both ends by covers 3 of mainly plane inner surface characterized in that at at least one of the axial ends of the rotor 8 within the outer periphery thereof there are control members 12, 14 or 17 keeping the vanes lO constantly in contact with the cylinder wall 2 of the casing l . 2. A structure according to claim 1, characterized in that on at least one of the casing covers 3 a disc or cam l2 is provided, concentrically with the cylindrical inner wall of the casing, the vanes l being guided slidingly by the periphery of this disc or cam 12 between it and the inner wall 2 of the casing l . 3. A structure according to claim 2 characterized in that a preferably circular cylindrical disc , annular cam or ring l4 is freely movable with the rotor 8 . 4. A structure according to claim 1 characterized in that in at least one of the end walls of the rotor concentrically therewith a circular chamber ll is provided in which a separate disc or cam ring 14 is present, having a periphery axially parallel to the inner cylindrical wall 2 of the casing l and that all the vanes 10 have parts fitting slidingly between the periphery 16 of the disc or of the cam and the inner wall 2 of the casing 5. A structure according to claim 4 characterized in that the cam ring 14 is rotatably supported about a circular hub 17 rigid to the casing cover 3 6. A structure according to any of the preceding claims characterized in that in an endwall of the rotor 8 concentric cally therewith a circular chamber 11 is recessed in which a separate circular disc with a periphery axially parallel to the internal cylinder wall 2 of the casing 1 is provided and that the vanes l0 have parts making a sliding fit between the periphery of the disc and the inner wall 2 of the casing l , the rotor shaft 5 being supported rotatably only in the casing cover 3 at the other end of the rotor. 7. A structure according to any of the preceding claims characterized in that the vanes l0 slide in contact with the cam rings 14 or the discs 12 with the side of a recess l8 , which is directed towards the rotor axis 5 , said recess being provided in the vanes 10 inside of the outer periphery of the rotor 8 . 8. A structure according to any of claims 3 to 5, characterized in that the vanes l0 at their ends directed towards the rotor axis 5 have inside the outer periphery of the rotor at the ends directed to the casing covers 3 a recess l9 at least partially surrounding the cam ring 14 . 9. A structure according to any of the preceding claims characterized in that parts 20 of the vanes l0 directed towards and guided by the control or cam means 12, 14 or 17 are wider than the thickness of the remainder of the vane bodies. 10. A structure according to any of the preceding claims characterized in that between the ends of the rotor 8 and the casing covers 3 inside the outer periphery of the rotor 8 sealing rings 2l of wear resistant and or self lubricating material are present between the vanes. 11. A structure according to claim 10 characterized in that sealing between the ends of the rotor 8 and the casing covers 3 is obtained by wedgeshaped segmental plates 22 of wear resistant and or self lubricating material between the vanes 10 , the ends of the segments cresting against the I vanes 10 , which segments 22 are supported in an annular chamber 23 provided concentrically in the end wall of the rotor 8 , there being resilient means 24 to urge the segments 22 into contact with the adjacent casing cover 3 . 12.A structure according to claim 10, characterized in that the sealing between the ends of the rotor 8 and the casing covers 3 is obtained by a circular disc 25 of wear resistant and or self lubricating material taken up in a circular chamber 26 being provided concentrically in the end wall of the rotor 8 , the disc being interrupted by slots 27 forming elongations of the slots 9 for the vanes in the rotor body 8 and having a central circular opening 28 for passage of the rotor axis 5 , the disc 25 being urged outwardly against the adjacent casing cover 3 by resilient means 24b 13. A structure according to claim 10 characterized in that the sealing between the ends of the rotor 8 and the casing covers 3 is obtained by a cap shaped member 29 engaging with a sliding fit around and over one end 30 of the rotor 8 , which end 30 has a smaller diameter than the rotor body so that the outer diameters of the cap shaped member 29 and the rotor body are equal, said cap 29 being urged by resilient means 24 away from the rotor body, there being one or more guide means 31 to prevent rotation of the cap shaped member 29 with respect to the rotor 8r 14. A structure according to claim 10 characterized in that the sealing between the ends of the rotor 8 and the casing covers 3 is obtained by an annular member 32 of wear resistant and or self lubricating sealing material, provided at the side of the rotor with corresponding recesses 33 for allowing passage of the vanes 10 , said member 32 being in part taken up in an annular chamber 34 being concentrically provided in the end wall of the rotor 8 and said member 32 being at its other side rotatably taken up in a corresponding annular chamber 35 in the casing cover 3 . 15. A structure according to claim 10 characterized in that the rotor 8 at at least one end has a protruding annular part protruding axially outside the vanes 10 and rotatably taken up in a chamber 37 in the casing cover 3 , there being between the end wall of the rotor 8 and the chamber 37 in the casing cover 3 resilient sealing means 38 or grease of high viscosity. 16. A structure according to claim 10, characterized in that the vanes 10 at their sides directed towards the casing covers 3 have a slot shaped recess 4l over their entire length, in which a strip 42 of wear resisting and or self lubricating sealing material is taken up with a sliding fit, there being resilient means 43 to urge the strip 42 outwardly against the adjacent casing cover 3 17. A structure according to claim 10 characterized in that the vanes 10 at their side directed towards the inner wall 2 of the casing l are provided over their entire length with a slot shaped recess 44 in which a strip 45 of wearresisting and or self lubricating sealing material is taken up, there being resilient means 46 to urge the strip 45 outwardly towards the inner wall 2 of the casing fl. 18. A structure according to claims 16 and 17 characterized in that the slot shaped recess 41 at the sides of the vanes directed towards the casing covers 3 and the recess 44 at the side of the vanes directed to the inner wall 2 of the casing l together constitute a continuous slot shaped recess 47 , a strip 48 of wear resistant and or self lubricating material being taken up with a sliding fit between the sealing strips 42 adjacent the casing covers 3 . 19. A structure according to claim 18, characterized in that in the continuous slot shaped recess 47 in the vanes 10 two sealing strips 49 in the shape of a carpenters square are taken up having their adjacent ends near the inner wall of the casing 2 in mutually overlapping relationship with local thinner strip parts 50 . 20. A structure according to claims 18 and 19 characterized in that the sealing strips 42 and 48 or 49 at the three sides of the vanes are under an outwardly directed resilient pressure by a single U shaped spring 51 of resilient wire or leaf material having an outwardly directed curve in the sides directed towards the casing covers 3 and having two outwardly directed curves in the part directed towards the inner wall 2 of the casing. 21. A structure according to claim 18 characterized in that the U shaped spring 51 has hooked ends 52 , which hooks engage behind the ends of the strips 42 directed towards the rotor axis 5 . 22. A structure according to any of the preceeding claims applied as pump, characterized in that in the circularcylindrical casing 1 between inlet and outlet there are openings 53 and 54 mutually connected by a closed passage 55 and positioned so that between the in and outlet openings and these openings 53 and 54 there is always at least one vane.

## Description
A rotating vane pump or motor This invention relates to a rotating vane pump or motor provided with a circular cylindrical rotor with slots in which vanes are guided slidingly, which rotor is supported eccentrically in a casing with a circular cylindrical interior, which is closed at both ends by internally substantially plane end faces. Such rotating machines are known already a long time, not only as pumps but also as pneumatic motors. Both embodiments have found a wide field of application notwithstanding the often low efficiency as a result of internal leakage and the dependency on the speed of rotation for moving the vanes outwardly in the correct time intervals and angular regions. It is an object of this invention to increase the efficiency of such structures considerably while maintaining the existing advantages. By such an improvement it is possible to apply a very much wider fie ld of applications both as pumps and as motors, to increase the applicability and suitability of the structure and it is thereby also possible to choose a more compact structure for the same purpose and output, in which it is even possible to apply wider manufacturing tolerances of the composing parts and an easier assembly. To obtain this object the structure is improved accord inc to the invention in essence by making the movement of the vanes independentfromthe speed of rotation and by providing very good sliding seals between casing and rotor and between casing and vanes. The invention will now be explained further with referen to the enclosed drawings showing by way of example several possible embodiments, in which description features and advar tages of the invention will become apparent.Fig. 1 shows an exploded view of a simple embodiment of a rotating vane pump or motor. The means for causing the rad movement of the vanes 10 include a cam or disc 12 on each si rigidly connected to the covers 3 of the casing 1. The slidi seal between the end faces of the rotor 8 and the covers 3 is obtained by segmental plates 22 between the vanes 10, which plates are supported under pressure of springs 24 in annular chambers 23 in the ends of the rotor 8. The vanes themselves are provided with slot shaped recesses along the sides directed to the inner wall of the casing, said recesses taking up resilient sealing strips 42. Fig. 2 shows a partial axial section of such a structure according to the invention, in which in an open chamber 11 concentric with the rotor axis and in the ends thereof there is a separate and as such freely rotatable ring 14 between the ends of the vanes directed towards the axis, which ring provides for the control of the movement of the vanes. Fig. 3 shows a similar view and section of part of the structure with a loose rotatable ring 14 as in Fig. 2, but here active in a recessed corner 18 at the ends of the sides of the vanes directed towards the axis, ring 14 being shown at a distance from its operative position in recessed parts 18 Fig. 4 shows a similar view and section as Figures 2 and 3, in which the vanes 10 have a recess 19 opening towards the adjacent cover of the casing and taking up the separate movable control ring 14, which in this case controls movement of the vanes positively both outwardly and inwardly. Fig. 5 shows an exploded view of the same part of a structure according to the invention in a further embodiment in which the casing cover 3 is provided with a circular hub 17 concentric with the axis of the rotor and having a separate and separately rotatable ring 14 which, in this case, is of greater axial length to engage both around this hub 17 and in the recesses 19 of the vanes 10. Fig. 6 shows a diagrammatic end view of a rotor of a structure according to the invention in another embodiment in which the vanes 10 at their ends near the axis of the rotor have a widened part 20 giving a better contact with the controlmembers such as control ring 14. The vanes have inner end faces perpendicular to their radial direction so as to compensate for differences in contact angle by the eccentric position of the rotor in the casing. Fig. 7 shows an end view of a rotor. of a structure according to the invention, having, as in Fig. 1, separate segments 22 between the vanes 10. These segments are made of particularly wear resistant and or self lubricating material and are taken up in an annular chamber in the rotor between the vanes, while they are resiliently pressed against the casing covers by springs 24. Fig. 8 shows from a direction inclined with respect to the axis the end of a rotor of a structure according to the invention with a chamber with a deeper portion 11 and a shallow portion 26 outwardly thereof. A disc 25 of wearresistant and or self lubricating sealing material has a central hole 28 and radial slots 27 for taking up the ends of the vanes. There may be spring means not shown such as 24 in Fig. 1 and 7 to push this disc 25 towards the adjacent casing cover, and there may be a pin 31 on the rotor in shallow chamber portion 26 engaging a hole in the disc 25 to avoid that the entire force for rotating disc 25 with the rotor should be exerted by the vanes only. Fig. 9 shows the end of a rotor with an end disc 29 embodied as a cap engaging and slidingly fitting around an end part 30 of the rotor with smaller diameter. There are spring 24 for urging this cap against the inner end face of the casing and pins 31 engaging in holes in disc 29 to keep this disc in position. Fig. 10 shows an exploded view of an embodiment of the structure according to the invention with the rotor 8 having in a recessed annular part 34 at both ends an annular body of wear resistant and or self lubricating material having radial slots 33 for taking up the ends of the vanes. In thi case, the end covers 3 of the casing have an annular recess part 35 for taking up the outer ends of the rings 32 axiall outside the slots 33 so as to have the rings 32 fitting but being easily rotatable therein. Fig. 11 shows an axial section for the movable sealing between the rotor and the casing cover, the rotor 8 having at its outer periphery a protruding annular part 37 engaging by a sliding fit in an annular chamber 38 of casing cover with interposition of wear resistant material. This mat erial may be resilient to give a good sealing. Instead thereof the annular chamber 38 may engage around the protruding part 37 with some clearance and this chamber 38 may be filled by grease of sufficiently high viscosity. There may be sealing material in the remainder of this end face of the rotor and at the righthand end of the rotor as indicated by 21. Fig. 12 shows diagrammatically a vane 10 for a structure according to the invention in front and end view, the vane having a slot shaped recess in which the separate sealing strips are mounted with a sliding fit. These strips may be maintained in sealing contact with the cylinder wall and the casing covers under a resilient pressure. Fig. 13 shows this vane 10 of Fig. 12 in section parallel to its side faces and through the slot taking up the sealing strips. The slot is indicated by 47, the side sealing strips by 42 and the outer sealing strip by 48. A spring 51 embodied as a resilient wire of leafspring is positioned in the bottom of the slot 47 to urge the sealing strips 42 and 48 outwardly.The ends of this spring are bent outwardly as at 52. Fig. 14 shows in perspective an embodiment of the sealing strips indicated by 49 giving a better and uninterrupted sealing around three sides of the vane and Fig. 15 shows such a sealing strip embodiment in position on the vane 10 in a peripheral slot 47 thereof as in Fig. 13. In this case, the ends of the spring 51 are bent inwardly at 52 and are taken up in suitable small openings in the bottom of the recess 47. Fig. 16 shows an embodiment of a pump according to the invention with an end cover removed and seen axially from one end. The fluid enters through inlet 7 and leaves the design through outlet 6. It is always necessary to have a sufficient running clearance between the rotor and the casing, the vanes providing for the sealing between inlet 7 and outlet 6, with their different pressures. Nevertheless it cannot be avoided that more than negligible fluid volumes are moved along by said clearance spaces from the outletsector to the inletsector, causing appreciable volumetric losses. According to the execution as shown in Fig. 16, the invention provides between the outlet 6 and the inlet 7 for a bypass opening 53 in the pumpcasing said bypass opening 53 is positioned such that between the outlet 6 and opening 53 and between opening 53 and inlet 7 there is at any time at least one vane, The same is true for the bypass opening 54 between inlet 7 and the outlet 6, being separated from each at any time by at least one vane. The bypass openings 53 and 54 are interconnected by a pipe, hose or the like 55.Said bypass duct 55 thus forms a connection between the spaces with the smallest dead volume, as soon as this volume is separated from the outlet opening by at least one vane and still separated by at least one vane from the inlet opening and another space with lower pressure in the suction sector of the pump which is also separated from the suction opening and the outlet opening by at least one vane. In doing so, with the machine working as compressor, pumping around compressed fluid and the compressed fluid losses due to this, as well as still further increasing losses in case the backpressure at the outlet increases, are substantially avoided. Higher compression ratios in one stage become possible as well. Should this machine act as vacuumpump, then through said bypass fluid will be sucked out from the spaces with the smallest dead volume generally filled with fluid at atmosferic pressure by an inactive space with reduced pressure. As a result an appreciably lower vacuum can be attained