# Nitrovinyl derivatives for use in therapy and pharmaceutical compositions containing them.

## Abstract
It has been found that compound of formula I

## Claims
CLAMS 1. Compounds of formula I for use in a method of therapy practiced on the human or animal bodyEMI11.1 where R1 represents a C 1 6 alkyl group, R2 represents a hydrogen atom or a C 1 6 alkyl group and R3 represents a C1 alkyl group or R2 and R3 together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached form a morpholino, pyrrolidino or piperidino group. 2. Compounds as claimed in Claim 1 in which R1 represents C14alkyl and either R2 represents hydrogen or methyl and R3 represents methyl or NR2R3 represents morpholino, pyrrolidino or piperidino. 3. N Methyl 2 nitro 1 1 pyrrolidinyl ethenamine for use in a method of therapy practiced on the human or animal body. 4. N Methyl 2 nitro l 1 piperidinyl ethenamine for use in a method of therapy practiced on the human or animal body. 5. N Methyl 1 4 morpholinyl 2 nitroethenamine for use in a method of therapy practiced on the human or animal body. 6. N,N,N Trimethyl 2 nitro l,l ethenediami N,N Dimethyl 2 nitro l,l ethenediamine for use in a method of therapy practiced on the human or animal body. use in a method of therapy practiced on the human or animal body. 7. N Butyl 2 nitro l 1 pyrrolidinyl ethenamine for use in a method of therapy practiced on the human or animal body. 8. A pharmaceutical composition comprising at least one compound of formula I as defined in any of claims 1 to 7 together with at least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient. 9. A pharmaceutical composition as claimed in claim 8 also containing a medicament containing an N nitro satable group. 10. A pharmaceutical composition as claimed in claim 8 or 9 formulated in dosage units and adapted for oral administration.

## Description
Nitrovinyl Derivatives for Use in Therapy and Pharmaceutical Compositions Containing Them. The present invention relates to nitrovinyl derivatives for use in therapy, and pharmaceutical compositions containing them. The presence of nitrite in the stomach is well established. It is derived from foodstuff directly, in which it is used as a preservative, and it is also produced in the body from the nitrate in vegetables and is swallowed with the saliva. It is also known that certain commonly prescribed medicaments and substances resulting from ingestion of food in the stomach react with nitrite under physiological conditions to yield mutagenic and or carcinogenic N nitrosamines. These N nitrosation reactions can take place in the stomach. It is an object of the present invention to prevent or significantly reduce the extent to which such N nitrosation reactions can occur in the stomach by administering to the patient a compound which will irreversibly react with the nitrosating agent to form a non mutagenic or non carcinogenic agent. The present invention is based on the finding that compounds of formula IEMI1.1 where R1 represents a C 1 6 alkyl group, R2 represents a hydrogen atom Qr a C16 alkyl group and R3 represents a C 1 6 alkyl group or R2 and R3 together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached form a morpholino, pyrroldino or piperidino group, react with nitrite under physiological condiu ions to form non mutagenic derivatives of formula II EMI2.1 The present invention provides compounds of formula I as defined above for use in a method of therapy practiced on the human or animal body, especially for use in the prevention of tneUcEoir mnation of potentially mutagenic and or carcinogenic N nitrosamines in the stomach. The present invention also provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising as active ingredient at least one compound of formula I as defined above together with at least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient, and optionally one or more further active ingredients particularly medicaments containing an N nitrosatable group . The term pharmaceutical composition as used herein, includes compositions for administration to animals as well as humans, but is not intended to include mere solutions of the compounds of formula I in non sterile water or a common organic solvent.Pharmaceutical compositions for oral administration are preferred and may take the form of, for example tablets, capsules, powders, solutions, syrups or suspensions prepared by conventional means with acceptable excipients. The compound of formula I will generally be administered at a daily dose level in the range of 50 mg to 2 g more preferably 100 mg to 500 mg and a convenient daily dosage regime would be 1 to 4 doses. The compound will conveniently be formulated in dosage units, each dosage unit typically containing from 20 mg to 500 mg of the compound of the invention. The compound of formula I may be administered prior to the patient having a meal or taking a medicament containing an N nitrosatable group. Alternatively the compound of formula I may be administered together with a medicament containing an N nitrosatable group, the compound of formula I and the medicament being administered separately or in the same pharmaceutical composition. Examples of medicaments containing an Nnitrosatable group are tetracyclines such as oxytetra cycle, and aminopyrine. In formula I preferably R1 representsCl 4 alkyl, e.g. methyl or butyl, R2 represents hydrogen or methyl and R3 represents methyl or MR2R3 represents morpholino, pyrrolidino or piperidino. Particularly preferred compounds of formula I are N methyl 2 nitro l 1 pyrrolidinyl ethenamine, N methyl 2 nitro l 1 piperidinyl ethenamine, N methyl 1 4 morpholinyl 2 nitroethenamine, N,N,N trimethyl 2 nitro l,l ethenediamine, N,N dimethyl 2 nitro 1,1 ethenediamine, N butyl 2 nitro 1 1 pyrrolidinyl ethenamine. Compounds of formula I may be prepared by heating a compound of formula III or w Th which L 2s a leaving group,for example an alkylthio group such as methylthio, with an appropriate amine R1NH2 or R 2R3 NH. The reaction is preferably carried out in a solvent such as an alkanol e.g. methanol or ethanol, with heating.EMI3.1 In a modification of this reaction compounds of formula I in which the groups NR2R3 and N R1 are the same, may be prepared by treating a compound of formula0 V in which ii is a leaving group as defined above, with an amine R1NH2. The reaction is conveniently carried out in a solvent, for example an alkanol such as methanol or ethanol and preferably with heating. The invention is illustrated but not limited by the following examples. Examples 1 to 6 illustrate the preparation of compounds of formula I , Examples 7 to 11 describe the reaction of such compounds with sodium nitrite in the presence of acid to form a compound of formula II and Example 12 describes pharmaceutical compositions.EXAMPLE 1 N,N Dimethyl 2 nitro 1,1 ethenediamine Methylamine 100 ml, 35 in ethanol was added over a ten minute period to a boiling solution of 1,1bis methylthio 2 nitroethene 50g dissolved in methanol 2 1 . After heating at reflux for 30 min, the solvent was evaporated under reduced pressure. Water 100 ml was added to the concentrated liquors and the crude product isolated by ffltration, Recrystallisation from ethanol gave the title compound 15.5 g as white crystals m.p 217 C. EXAMPLE 2 N,N,N Trimethyl 2 nitro 1,1 ethenediamine A solution of N methyl l methylthio 2 nitroethenamine 14.8 g in ethanolic N methyl methanamine 33 100 ml was heated under reflux for 2 hours. The resulting solutions was evaporated to dryness and recrystallised from ethyl acetate cyclohexane to give the title compound as a crystalline solid 10.25 g m.p. 117 119 . EXAMPLE 3 N Methyl 1 4 morPhOlinyl 2 nitroethenamine A mixture of N methyl l methylthio 2 nitroethenamine 14.82 g and morpholine 8.71 g in acetonitrile 200 ml was heated at reflux for 30 h and allowed to cool. Removal of the solvent by evaporation gave a solid which was recrystallised from ethyl acetate to give the title compound as a yellow solid 15.89 g m.p. 133 134.5 . EXAMPLE 4 N methyl 2 nitro l 1 piperidinyl ethenamine A mixture of N methyl l methylthio 2 nitro ethenamine 14.8 g and piperidine 8.5 g in acetonitrile 200 ml was heated at reflux for twelve hours. The acetonitrile was removed in vacuo to leave a solid which was recrystallised from ethyl acetate cyclohexane. Column chromatography Silica 300 g, ethyl acetate followed by recrystallisation from ethyl acetate gave the title compound 8.2 g m.p.115 1170.EXAMPLE 5 N Methyl 2 nitro l 1 pyrrolidinyl ethenamine A mixture of N methyl l methylthio 2 nitroethenamine 14.82 g and pyrrolidine 7.82 g in acetonitrile 200 ml was heated at reflux for 16h and allowed to cool. The precipitated solid was collected by filtration and recrystallised from ethyl acetate ethanol. The title compound was collected as pale yellow needles 15.22 g m.p. 174.5 176.5 . EXAMPLE 6 N Butyl 2 nitro l 1 pyrrolidinyl ethenamine a N Butyl 2 methylthio 1 nitroethenamine A solution of 1, l bis methylthid 2 nitroethene 15 g in boiling methyl acetate 250 ml was treated with a solution of n butylamine 3.3 g in methyl acetate 50 ml over 4 hrs. The excess of starting material was removed by filtration, and the filtrate was evaporated. The residue was chromatographed on silica using dichloromethane methanol 98 2 as eluent to give a solid residue which was crystallised from light petroleum b.p. 60 80 C to give the title compound 4.8 g as off white crystals m.p. 45 470. b N Butyl 2 nitro l l pyrrolidinyl ethenamine A mixture of N butyl 2 methylthio 1 nitroethen amine 4.41 g and pyrrolidine 1.79 g in acetonitrile 40 ml was stirred at room temperature for 20 hrs. The solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue was chromatographed on silica using dichloromethane methanol 25 1 as eluent, to give a solid. This solid was triturated with pentane to give the title compound 2.66 g as an off white solid m.p. 47 49 . Found C, 56.3 H, 9.0 N, 19.7 CloHlgN302 requires C, 56.7 H, 9.4 N, 20.0 .EXAMPLE 7 2 Hydroxyimino N, N dimethyl 2 nitroethanimidamide A solution of the compound of Example 1 2.62 g and sodium nitrite 1.40 g in water 50 ml at OOC was treated dropwise with iN hydrochloric acid 20 ml over 20 min. An orange solid precipitated and gas was vigorously evolved. The orange solid was filtered off and dried in vacuo to give the title compound m.p. 1140.EXAMPLE 8 2 Hydroxyimino N,N,N trinethyl 2 nitroethanïmidamide The compound of Example 2 2.9 g and sodium nitrite 1.38 g, , g in water 50 ml was stirred at 50C and 1 N hydrochloric acid 20 ml was added dropwise over a period of 20 minutes, during the addition the solution turning dark red in colour. The solution was stored at OOC for 16 hours, the pH of the solution adjusted to pH 12 by the addition of potassium carbonate and the mixture extracted with iso propanol 3 x 100 ml .The combined extracts were dried MgSO4 , filtered, evaporated to dryness and stored at 00 for two days.The solid was treated with ethyl acetate 250 ml and filtered. Recrystallisation of the product from ethanol gave the title compound m.p. 1120.EXAMPLE 9 4 2 Hydroxyimino l methylimino 2 nitroethyl morpholine Hydrochloric acid 1N, 10.7 ml was added dropwise to a cooled 50C solution of the compound ofExample 3 2,00 g and sodium nitrite 0.74 g in water 30 ml . The solution turned deep red and a brown solid was precipitated. The solid was collected by filtration and washed with water 2 x 10 ml and dried at 200C in a vacuum pistol to give the title compound 0.71 g m.p. 111 1120. In a similar manner l 2 hydroxyimino l methyl imino nitroethyl piperidine 0.2 g m.p. 107 was obtained from N methyl 2 nitro l l piperidinyl ethene amine 1.0 g . EXAMPLE 10 l 2 Hydro Yimine l methylimino 2 nitroetht pyrrolidine Hydrochloric acid 1N, 11.7 ml was added dropwise to a cooled 50C solution of the compound of Example 5 2.00 g and sodium nitrite 0.81 g in water 60 mi . A deep red solution resulted which afforded a brown crystalline material. After stirring for 15 min. the title compound 1.2 g was collected by filtration m.p.126 1270.EXAMPLE 11 l l Butylimino 2 hydroxyimino 2 nitroethyl pyrrolidine A solution of sodium nitrite 0.28 g and the product of Example 6 0.7 g in water 5 ml at 50C was treated with 2N hydrochloric acid 1.75 ml . The resulting precipitate was collected by filtration, washed with water and ether and subsequently dried in vacuo, to give the title compound 0.42 g as an orange solid m.p. l02l030. EXAMPLE 12Pharmaceutical compositions. a Oral Tablets 200 mg my tablet Active ingredient 200.00Lactose B.P. 130.00Starch B.P. 40.00 Pregelatinised Maize Starch B.P. 20.00Sodium Starch Glycolate NF . 8.00Magnesium Stearate B.P. 2.00 Compression weight 400.00 mg The active ingredient is sieved through a 2SOpm sieve and blended witil tlic lactose, starch and pregelatinised starch. The mixed powders are moistened with purified water, granules are made, dried, screened and blended with the Sodium Starch Glycolate and MagnesiumStearate. The lubricated granules are compressed into tablets using 10.0 mni punches. Tablets of other strengths may be prepared by altering the compression weight and using punches to suit. The tablets may be film coated with suitable film forming materials, e.g. methyl cellulose or hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose using standard techniques. Alternatively tho tablets may be sugar coated. b Oral Capsules 200 mg mg capsuleActive ingredient 200.00 STA RX 1500 98.5Magnesium Stearate B.P. 1.5 Fill weight 300.00 mg A form of directly compressible starch supplied by Colorcon Ltd., Orpington, Kent. The active ingredient is seived through a 2501n sieve and blended with the other materials. The mix is filled into No. 2 hard gelatin capsules using a suitable filling machine. Other doses may be prepared by altering the fill weight and if necessary changing the capsule size to suit. c Oral Syrup mg 5 ml doseActive ingredient 200Sucrose B.P. 2750Glycerine B.P. 500BufferFlavour as requiredColour as required PreservativeDistilled Water 5.00 ml The active ingredient, buffer, flavour, colour and preservative are dissolved in some of the water, and the glycerine is added. The remainder of the water is heated to 800C and the sucrose is dissolved in this and cooled. The two solutions are combined, adjusted to volume and mixed. The syrup produced is clarified by filtration. The compounds of formula I are non toxic at physiologically useful doses. For example the compound of Example 1 when given to the conscious mouse at doseS up to 800 mg kg orally produced no observable effects.