# BRACKET AND HANDRAIL COMBINATION.

## Abstract
A bracket B used to install a handrail coping H , guard rail or the like at mounting position for a stair, a corridor or the like. The bracket B includes a mounting block 1 to be fixed to a support at the mounting position, having a supporting arm 2 projecting from the front surface thereof a coping retainer 3 mounted at the end of the arm 2 and having a coping recess 8 opening upwardly with a U shaped corss section a coping retainer block 9 including a boss 10 coupling means 11 for coupling the block 9 to the arm 2 and the handrail coping H in which a metallic core material 6 extends along the longitudinal direction of the material 6 and is buried within the coping body 5 formed of soft synthetic resin, semi hard synthetic resin, synthetic rubber or the like. The bracket can mount the coping retainer 3 , which is separate from the arm 2 , into the recess 8 to correspond to the mounting gradient of the handrail coping H , a guard rail or the like at the mounting position without a seam therebetween.

## Claims
What is claimed is 1. A bracket for use with the top rail of a handrail comprising a mounting block adapted to be secured to a support at an installation area a support arm extending outwardly from said mounting block. and a top rail support means provided at the leading end of said support arm and including án upwardly open top rail receiving groove of substantially U shaped crosssection. 2. A bracket for use with the top rail of a handrail as set forth in Claim 1, in which one edge of said top rail receiving groove extends above the other edge of the groove to form a mounting portion. 3. A bracket for use with the top rail of a handrail as set forth in Claim 1, in which said top rail support means is formed as a top rail support block separate from said support arm and having said top rail receiving groove and a boss and said block is connected to said support arm with said boss secured to the support arm by connector means. 4. A bracket for use with the top rail of a handrail as set forth in Claim 3, in which one edge of said top rail receiving groove in said top rail support block extends above the other edge of the groove to form a mounting portion. 5. A bracket for use with the top rail of a handrail as set forth in Claim 3, in which said support arm and boss include aligned bores for said connector means, the leading end face of said support arm is provided with a counter bore in coaxial with and open to said bore for the connector means and a sleeve portion extends from one end face of the block in coaxial relationship to said bore for the connector means in the boss to be fitted in said counter bore whereby the top rail support block is connected to the support arm for angular adjustment. 6. A bracket for use with the top rail of a handrail as set forth in Claim 5, in which meshing faces are formed at the leading end face of said support arm and at one end face of said boss. 7. A bracket for use with the top rail of a handrail as set forth in Claim 5, meshing faces are formed on the inner surface of said counter bore and on the outer peripheral surface of said sleeve portion. 8. A bracket for use with the top rail of a handrail as set forth in any one of Claims 5 through 7, in which said connector means comprises a bolt and a nut and a detent bore is formed in said bore for the connector means in the boss for the head of said bolt or said nut and said detent bore is open to the back side of said mounting.block.

## Description
SPECIFICATION Bracket for Use with Top Rail of Handrail Field of the Art This invention relates to a bracket for installing the top rail of a handrail on a support portion at an installation area such as a staircase, floor or the like, for example. More particularly, this invention relates to a bracket which firmly and easily attaches the top rail of a handrail formed of resilient material such as soft synthetic resin, semi hard synthetic resin of synthetic rubber and having a metal core or cores embedded therein to the support portion. More particularly, this invention relates to a bracket for use with the top rail of a handrail which enables the top rail of a handrail to be easily attached to a support portion with a required slope and which will not stand in the way when the user slides his hand or hands along the top rail. Hithertofore, a variety of brackets for use with the top rails of handrails of the above mentioned type have been proposed and practically employed. One of such prior art brackets is a cantilever type bracket having the arrangement in which one end of the support arm is secured to a wall by a screw or screws and the other end of the support arm is attached to the top rail of a handrail to support the top rail and the handrail top rail is formed of a metal pipe with high rigidity. Therefore, there is scarcely the possibility that the pipe span between a pair of adjacent brackets bends to apply a load to the support arm or top rail which load tends to rotate the support arm, and instead the handrail top rail prevents the application of such force to the bracket support arm.However, since handrail top rails are in most case formed of various materials and especially resilient materials at present, when a load is applied to the top rail span between a pair of adjacent brackets, the top rail span bends somewhat to apply a load to the support arms of the brackets so as to rotate the brackets. Thus, after a prolonged service or use of the handrail top rail, the screws which secure the brackets to a supporting wall become loose and as a result, the brackets come loose with respect to the wall. In the worst case, the brackets fall off the wall.And when the bracket is formed as a split type bracket comprising components separate from each other and assembled together by connector means so that the bracket may accommodate the slope with which the top rail is installed, after a prolonged service or use, the connector means tend to become loose resulting in insufficient supporting of the top rail by the bracket. Furthermore, when the handrail top rail comprises a body formed of resilient material such as soft synthetic resin, semi hard synthetic resin or synthetic rubber and a metal core or cores embedded in the body, even if the top rail is secured the use of a screw or screws to the bracket secured tc a aall, when a load is applied to a top rail, the top rai t s to deform at its secured point or points and coxes use because the body of the top rail and its coating are and of resilient material.In addition, especially when the top rail body is formed of resilient materials, El impact applied to the top rail span between a pair of adjucent brackets causes the handrail top rail to oscillate and as a result, after a prolonged service or use, a iem arises in connection with means which firmly secures ne handrail top rail to a wall against the resilience of ne surface of the top rail. Therefore, me object of the present invention is to provide a bracket for use with the top rail of a handrail which fir secures a handrail top rail comprising a body formed of resilient material such as soft synthetic resin, semi hard synthetic resin or synthetic rubber and a metal core or ochre embedded in the body at an installation area such as a staircase or floor extending from one end to the other and of the installation area with freedom of bending a without joints. Another object of the present invention is to provide a bracket fc lse with the top rail of a handrail which firmly secures ne top rail at an installation area, which easily accommodates the slope with which the top rail is installed and which resists loosening and ratting caused by the loosening after a prolonged service or use. A still further object of the present invention is to provide a bracket for use with the top rail of a handrail which is simpler in construction and less expensive and which installs the top rail in a simpler and easily operation in a relatively short time period. Disclosure of the Invention Therefore, according to the present invention1 there has been provided a bracket for use with the top rail of a handrail which comprises a mounting block adapted to be secured to a support portion at an installation area, a support arm extending outwardly from the block and a top rail support member provided at the leading end of the support arm and including a top rail receiving groove of substantially U shaped cross section.By the bracket, a handrail top rail comprising a body formed of resilient material such as soft synthetic resin, semi hard synthetic resin or synthetic rubber and a metal core or cores embedded in the body can be installed at an installation area with the winding in conformity with the contour of the installation area and extending from one end to the other end of the installation area without joints in a simpler manner at less expense. The bracket is simpler in construction and less expensive, simplifies the top rail installation operation and shortens the installation time. Furthermore, the bracket can be colored in various colors to enhance decorative effect of the top rail. According to one aspect of the present invention, the bracket includes a top rail support block separate from and secured to a support arm by connector means and having a top rail receiving groove and a boss. With the abovementioned construction and arrangement of the components of the bracket, the top rail support block is firmly connected to the support arm so as to reinforce the support arm by the connector means whereby even when the top rail span between adjacent brackets in pair bends to apply a load to the support arm to cause the support arm to rotate, the connection between the support arm and top rail support block provided by the connector means will not come loose and the top rail can be positively secured to a wall at a predetermined installation angle to the wall. Furthermore, the bracket of the present invention comprises a relatively small number of components, that is, three components such as the support arm having the integrally formed flange, the top rail support block and connector means. Furthermore, since the connection angle between the support arm and top rail support block can be freely adjusted, the bracket can accommodate different slopes with which the top rail is installed at the installation area and is suitable to mass production. The bracket of the invention is advantageously employed in the application where the handrail top rail is formed of resilient material and secured to the wall by a relatively large number of brackets.Furthermore, when the mounting portion partially defining the top rail receiving groove or both the mounting portion and the upright arm which defines the top rail receiving groove in cooperation with the opposing mounting portion extending along the inner or outer side of the top rail, the bracket will not be in the way when the user slides his hand or hands along the top rail and when the mounting portion is positioned on the inner side of the top rail, the securing means such as screws are not exposed on the outer side of the handrail top rail. Furthermore, the bracket mounting structure effectively prevents the rotation rolling of the top rail due to elastic deformation of the surface of the top rail because the top rail formed of resilient material such as soft synthetic resin, semi hard synthetic resin or synthetic rubber is received in the top rail receiving groove of substantially U shaped cross section partially defined by the mounting portion and held in position by the securing means such as screws extending through the mounting portion whereby the connection between the top rail and top rail receiving groove is substantially reinforced and the handrail top rail can be attached to the wall under substantially increased stabilized conditions.And when the distance between the arms on the outer and inner sides of the top rail receiving groove is made smaller than the width of the handrail top rail itself and the top rail is fitted in the top rail receiving groove with slight elastic deformation, the connection between the top rail receiving groove and top rail is further reinforced. Furthermore, when the top rail is fitted in the bracket top rail receiving groove with slight elastic deformation by. the utilization of the resilient material of the top rail, the bracket can be temporarily secured to the top rail prior to the securing of the bracket to the top rail whereby the top rail receiving groove can be quite easily positioned with respect to the top rail.Especially, when a single top rail is installed at the installation area from one end to the other end of the installation area without joints while being bent, the installation operation can be performed easily and thus, the bracket of the invention is a quite suitable installation construction for bendable handrail top rails. The above and other objects and attendant advantages of the present invention will be more readily apparent to those skilled in the art from a reading of the following detailed description in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which show preferred embodiments of the invention for illustration purpose only, but not for limiting the scope of the same in any way. Fig. 1 is a perspective view of a first embodiment of bracket for use in connection with handrail top rails embodying the present invention Fig. 2 is a side elevational view in partial section of said bracket as shown in Fig. 1 Fig. 3 is a perspective view of a second embodiment of bracket for use in connection with handrail top rails embodying the present invention Fig. 4 is a side elevational view in partial section of said bracket as shown in Fig. 3 Fig. 5 is a perspective view of a modification of said second embodiment of bracket. Fig. 6 is a perspective view of a further modification of said second embodiment of bracket Fig 7 is a side elevational view of in partial section of said bracket as shown in Fig. 6 Fig. 8 is a front elevational view of a third embodiment of bracket for use in connection with handrail top rails embodying the present invention. Fig. 9 is a vertically sectional view of said bracket as shown in Fig. 8 Fig. 10 is an exploded perspective view of a fourth embodiment of bracket for use in connection with handrail top rails embodying the present invention Fig. 11 is a vertically sectional view of said fourth embodiment of bracket Figs. 12 and 13 are vertically sectional views of modifications of said fourth embodiment of bracket. Fig. 14 is an exploded perspective view of a fifth embodiment of bracket for use in connection with handrail top rails embodying the present invention Fig. 15 is a vertically sectional view of said bracket as shown in Fig. 14 Figs. 16 and 17 are exploded perspective views of modifications of said fifth embodiment of bracket Fig. 18 is a perspective view of a sixth embodiment of bracket for use in connection with handrail top rails embodying the present invention Fig. 19 is a vertically sectional view of said bracket as shown in Fig. 18 Fig. 20 is an exploded perspective view of a modification of said sixth embodiment of bracket Fig. 21 is a vertically sectional view of said bracket as shown in Fig. 20 Figs. 22 and 23 are vertically sectional views of a seventh embodiment of bracket for use in connection with handrail top rails embodying the present invention. Pig. 24 is a vertically sectional view of an eighth embodiment of bracket for use in connection with handrail top rails embodying the present invention Fig. 25 is an exploded perspective view of another modification of bracket embodying the present invention Fig. 26 is a perspective view of a further modified bracket embodying the present invention Fig. 27 is a perspective view of a modified top rail support block embodying the present invention Fig. 28 is a perspective view ofa ninth embodiment of bracket for use in connection with handrail top rails embodying the present invention Fig. 29 is a vertically sectional view of said bracket as shown in Fig, 28 Fig, 30 is an exploded vertically sectional view of said bracket as shown in Fig. 28 Fig. 31 is a further modified embodiment of bracket for use in connection with handrail top rails embodying the present invention Fig. 32 is a vertically sectional view of a tenth embodiment of bracket for use in connection with handrail top rails embodying the present invention1 and Fig. 33 is a back view of said bracket as shown in Fig. 32. Best Modes of the Invention The present invention will be in detail described referring to the accompanying drawings. In Figs. 1 and 2, the first embodiment of bracketB for use in connection with handrail top rails embodying the present invention is shown. The bracket B comprises a mounting block 1 adapted to be secured to a support portion at the installation area or a wall W by means of screws 7 or the like, a support arm 2 extending outwardly from the block 1 substantially at right angles thereto and a top rail support member 3 formed at the leading end of the arm 2. The top rail support member 3 includes a top rail receiving groove 8 of substantially U shaped cross section defined by a pair of opposite and spaced arms 3a, 3b shaped in conformity with the contour of the surface of a lower portion of a handrail top rail H.As shown in Fig. 2, the top rail H which is adapted to be secured to the installation area or wall W adjacent a staircase, floor or the like by the bracket B comprises an elliptical cross section body 5 formed of resilient material such as soft synthetic resin, semi hard synthetic resin or synthetic rubber. The top rail body 5 has two bendable metal cores 6 incorporated therein and the cores are capable of maintaining the body 5 in its bent condition against the resiliency of the top rail body 5 after the top rail has been bent. In the installation of the top rail H, the top rail is bent in conformity with the winding contour of the wall W adjacent the staircase and the grooves 8 in the top rail support members 3 of a plurality of brackets B are fitted on the top rail H at spaced points along the length of the top rail.Thereafter, screws 7 are driven from the inner or back side of the top rail H into the support members 3 to firmly hold the top rail H in the support members 3 and screws 7 are driven from the outer sides of the blocks 1 of the brackets B to secure the top rail and bracket assembly to the walls W. In the first embodiment as described hereinabove, the upper edges of the opposite arms 3a, 3b of the top rail support members 3 extend to substantially the center of the height of the top rail H on the outer and inner sides of the top rail, respectively and the distance between the leading or upper end portions of the arms 3a, 3b is slightly smaller than the width of the top rail H the distance between the outer and inner sides of the top rail so that when the top rail support member 3 is fitted on the top rail H, the top rail body 5 is caused to deform by virtue of its resiliency whereby the top rail H is tightly fitted in the groove 8 of the top rail support member 3 against inadvertent rotation rolling within the groove 8 which otherwise occurs due to the deformation of the resilient top rail when a load is applied to the top rail.And the screws 7 driven through the support member 3 into the top rail body are disposed substantially normal with respect to the arms 3a, 3b of the support member 3 that is, substantially in the horizon so that the screws 7 resist positively a load which will be applied to the top railH in the direction in which the top rail comes out of the support member groove 8 that is, in the vertically upward direction . The second embodiment of bracket B as shown inFigs. 3 and 4 is different from the first embodiment with respect to the construction and attaching mode of the top rail support member 3 in that the support member 3 has aL shaped cross section and includes a shorter outer arm 3a and a longer inner arm 3b the upper edge of which extend to a position adjacent the upper edge of the top rail H to form a mounting portion 4 and screws 7 are driven from the back side of the longer arm 3b through the arm into the top rail H to secure the top rail and bracket together.The entire mounting portion 4 is also shaped in conformity of the contour of the back side of the top rail H so that the mounting portion 4 will not be in the way when the user slides his hand or hands along the top rail H According to the second embodiment of bracket B, the longer arm 3b or inounting portion 4 has a larger contact area with respec to the top rail H than the corresponding component of the first embodiment of bracket B does and the screws 7 to be screwed into the top rail H can be disposed in two upper and lower rows to thereby connect the top rail and top rail support member together more firmly. Alternatively, the top rail and top rail support member can be firmly connecte together by means such as adhesive and the like. Fig. 5 shows a modification of the second embodiment of bracket B as described hereinabove. Different fron the second embodiment of Fig. 3, in the modification ofFig. 5, the outer arm 3a is longer than the inner arm 3b and in other words, the outer arm 3a extends upwardly beyond the upper edge of the inner arm 3b along the top rail H to form the mounting portion 4 and screws not shown are driven from the outer side of the longer arm 3a through the arm into the top rail H.By this arrangement, in the installation of the top rail H by the use of this modified bracket, a plurality of the modified brackets B are first secured to the walls at suitably spaced points along the walls, the top rail H is fitted in the grooves 8 in the top rail support members 3 of the brackets B while being bent in conformity with the contour of the walls and screws are driven through the longer or outer arms 3a into the top rail H to secure the top rail H to the mounting portions 4 of the brackets R in a simpler manner, Since the upper edges of the mounting portions 4 extend to a position adjacent the upper edge of the outer side of the top rail, the brackets resist more positively a load applied to the top rail H in the outward direction of the top rail. Figs. 6 and 7 show a further modification of the second embodiment of bracket and in this modification, as in the embodiment as shown in Figs. 3 and 4, the inner arm 3b of the top rail support member 3 which defines the inner wall of the groove 8 is formed as the mounting portion 4.However, since the body 5 of the top rail H to be attached to the installation area has a truly circular cross section, the outer and inner arms 3a, 3b the mounting portion 4 of the top rail support member 3 defining the outer and inner walls of the groove 8 are arcuated in conformity with the circular contour of the surface of the top rail body.And screws which are driven through the mounting portion 4 into the top rail body 5 are driven in such a manner that the pointed leading ends of the screws 7 direct to the metal core 6 embedded in the top rail body 5 extending along the longitudinal axis of the top rail body 5 whereby the screws 7 resist positively a load applied to the top rail H in the direction so as to cause the top rail to come out of the groove 8 in the top rail support member 3. Figs. 8 and 9 show a third embodiment of bracketB of the present invention and in this embodiment, the top rail support member 3 is replaced by a top rail support block which is formed separately from the support arm 2 and includes the top rail receiving groove 8 and a boss 10. The block 9 is secured to the support arm 2 by connector means such as a connector bolt 11 which extends through the boss 10. The bracket B of this embodiment comprises the mounting block 1 adapted to be secured to the wall W, the support arm 2 extending outwardly from the mounting block 1 substantially at right angles to the outer side of the mounting block 1, the top rail support block 9 and the connector bolt 11 which secures the block 9 to the leading end of the support arm 2. And the support arm 2 includes a threaded through bore 12 for the connector bolt 11 and a coaxial counter bore 13 having the diameter larger than that of the bore 12 is formed at the leading or outer end of the threaded bore 12. On the other hand, the top rail support block 9 includes a through bore 14 in the boss 10 for receiving the shank of the bolt 11. The boss 10 is formed at one or the inner face with a sleeve portion 15 adapted to be received in the counter bore 13 and at the other or outer face with a counter bore 16 for receiving the head of the bolt 11. Thus, in the installation of the top rail on the wall by the use of this third embodiment of bracket B, as shown in Fig. 9, a plurality of such brackets B are first secured to the walls W at spaced points along the walls by the screws or the like, the top rail H bent in conformity with the winding contour of the walls W are fitted in the brackets B and secured to the blocks 9 by the fastening means such as the screws 7.After the mounting blocks 1 have been secured to the walls W and the top rail H has been secured to the top rail support blocks 9 in the manner mentioned above, the sleeve portions 15 are fitted into the corresponding counter bores 13 to align the bosses 10 on the top rail support blocks 9 with the leading ends of the support arms 2 and the connector bolts 11 are screwed into the threaded bores 12 to secure the top rail support blocks 9 to the support arms 2 resulting in the installation of the top rail H on the walls W. In the third embodiment of bracket B, since the top rail support member 3 in the foregoing embodiments is replaced by the top rail support block 9 which is formed separately from the support arm 2, the support arm 2 and boss 10 are connected to each other by the interfitting counter bore 13 and sleeve portion 15 for angular adjustment and the support arm 2 and support block 9 are firmly connected together by the connector bolt 11, when the top rail H is to be installed on a sloped installation area such as a staircase handrail, the brackets B can be freely inclined in conformity with the inclination of the top railH. Figs. 10 and 11 show a fourth embodiment of bracket B of the invention and different from the third embodiment, the inner leg 3b is longer than the outer leg 3a in the top rail support block 9 to provide the mounting portion 4 as in the case of the second embodiment. In the fourth embodiment, the mounting portion 4 includes a plurality of horizontally elongated slots 17 for receiving the screws 7 so that the connection position between the mounting portion 4 and top rail H can be adjusted.Thus, in the installation arrangement by the fourth embodiment of Figs. 10 and 11, when the components of the top rail support block 9 are secured to the top rail H, the screws 7 are first partially tightened to the degree that the components can be displaced relative to the top rail H in the longitudinal direction of the top rail for adjustment and then fully tightened after the components have been properly positioned with respect to the top rail H to thereby firmly secure the top rail support block 9 and top rail H together. In addition, the top rail block 9 and top rail H can be firmly secured together at a relatively large contact area provided by the mounting portion 4 Figs. 12 and 13 show modifications of the fourth embodiment of bracket B.In the modification of Fig. 12, in order to accommodate a top rail H of truly circular cross section, the longer or outer arm 3a and more particularly, the mounting portion 4 and the shorter or inner arm 3a are arcuate in cross section in conformity with the circular surface of the top rail H. The top railH is secured to the mounting portion 4 and shorter leg 3b by the screws 7. In the modification, the arrangement of the leg 3b and mounting portion 4 may be reversed as desired.In the modification as shown in Fig. 13, the sleeve portion 15 is formed at the leading end face of the support arm 2 and the counter bore 13 is formed at the oute end face of the boss 10 and the counter bores 13 and 16 at the opposite end faces of the boss 10 have the same shap and diameter whereby the arrangement of the top rail block 9 with respect to the support arm 2 to which the block 9 is secured by the connector bolt 11 can be reversed. Taking decorative effects on the walls W adjacent a staircase, hospital floor and the like into consideration, the mounting portion 4 may be secured to the side of the top rail facing the wall W or the inner side of the top rail or the other or outer side of the top rail the case may be.Alternatively, alternate brackets B may be reversed in their arrangement with respect to the top rail H so that the mounting portions 4 are alternately secured to the outer and inner sides of the top rail H. In the third and fourth embodiments as mentioned hereinabove, the counter bore 13 and sleeve portion 15 formed at the leading end of the support arm 2 and on the top rail block boss 1O, respectively, may be formed with concavo convex faces as desired In such a case, even when the top rail H is subjected to oscillation to thereby impart rotary oscillation to the components of the top rail support block 9, the connector bolt 11 will not unscrew out of the threaded bore 12. Figs. 14 and 15 show a fifth embodiment of bracketB of the present invention In this embodiment, the top rail 9 of the third embodiment is further modified so that the bracket can be suitably employed in connection with a wall mounted handrail H. In the bracket B of the fifth embodiment, the outer arm 3a of the top rail support block 9 as shown in the third embodiment is eliminated and the arm 3b extends to a position adjacent the upper edge of the top rail H to form the mounting portion 4. The lower end portion of the arm 3b is arcuated at 8 to receive the top rail H thereon. The boss 10 on the top rail support block 9 is similar to the corresponding component of the third embodiment. Thus, the corresponding components of the fifth embodiment of bracket B are shown by the same reference numerals as those used for the similar or identical components of the third embodiment of bracket B. Figs. 16 and 17 show modifications of the sixth embodiment of bracket B of the invention. In the bracketB shown in Fig. 16, the leading end face 18 of the support arm 2 and the inner end face 19 of the top rail support block boss 10 are formed with radial meshing faces 20, 21, respectively. In assembling the support arm 2 and top rail support block 9 at a predetermined angle, the leading end 18 of the support arm 2 and the inner end face 19 of the boss 10 are abutted against each other so as to cause the meshing faces 20, 21 to engage each other and a connector bolt 11 is passed through the boss 10 into the support arm 2 to thereby provide a firm connection between the support arm 2 and top rail support block 9. The meshing faces 20, 21 are formed as saw toothed cross sectional faces extending radially. In the bracket B shown in Fig. 17, the inner surface 22 of the counter bore 13 in the support arm 2 and the outer surface 23 of the sleeve portion 15 on the top rail support block boss 10 are provided with meshing faces 24, 25, respectively. When the top rail support block 9 is connected to the support arm 2 at a predetermined angle thereto, as in the case of the bracket B as shown in Fig.16, a firm connection is provided between the support arm 2 and top rail support block 9. The meshing faces 24, 25 are also formed as saw toothed cross section faces extending in the axial direction of the arm 2 and block 9. The corresponding components of the brackets B of Figs 16 and 17 are shown by the same reference numerals as those used for the similar or identical components of the fifth embodiment of bracket B. Thus, in the bracket B of Fig. 17, even when the top rail support block 9 is subjected to a rotatory force, the bracket B resists such a force positively. Figs. 18 to 21 inclusive show a sixth embodiment of bracket B and modifications of the bracket according to the present invention. The brackets B of these Figures include modified top rail support blocks 9 and more particularly, modified top rail receiving grooves 8 therein.In these Figures, the corresponding components of the bracket B are shown by the same reference numerals as those used for the similar or identical components of the third embodiment of bracket. The sixth embodiment of bracket B of Figs. 18 and 19 includes the modified top rail receiving groove 8 in the top rail support block 9 which replaces the support member 3 as shown in Figs. 3 and 4. The bracket B of Figs.20 and 21 is a modification of the sixth embodiment of bracket B and in this modification, the top rail receiving groove 8 in the top rail support block 9 is replaced by the top rail support member 3 as shown in Fig. 5. Thus, even when the top rail H is formed of soft synthetic resin, semi hard synthetic resin or synthetic rubber, the rotationi or rolling of the top rail H is effectively prevented to thereby further enhance the stabilization of the top rail in the installation of the top rail. Figs. 22 and 23 show a seventh embodiment of bracket B and a modification of the seventh embodiment of the present invention, respectively. The brackets B of these Figures include modifications of the top rail support block 9 in the bracket B as shown in Fig. 13 and more particularly, the top rail receiving groove 8 in the top rail support block. In these Figures, the corresponding components of these brackets B are shown by the same reference numerals as those used for the similar or identical components of the bracket B as shown in Fig. 13. The seventh embodiment of block B of Fig. 22 includes the top rail receiving groove 8 in the top rail support block 9 as shown in Figs. 18 and 19 and the bracketB of Fig. 23 is a modification of the bracket B of Fig.22. In this modification, the top rail receiving groove 8 in the top rail support block 9 as shown in Figs. 20 and 21 is included. Fig. 24 shows an eighth embodiment of bracketB of the invention. In the bracket B of this embodiment, the threaded bore 12 extending from the support arm 2 into the mounting block 1 in the bracket as shown in Figs. 18 and 19 is replaced by a through bore 26. And the connector bolt 11 is replaced by a tapping screw 27 and the tapping screw is driven into the wall W to thereby directly secure the top rail support block 9 to the wall W together with the mounting block 1 and support arm 2. The components of the bracket B of Fig. 24 are shown by the same reference numerals as those used for the similar or identical components of the bracket B as shown in Figs, 18 and 19. Fig. 25 shows a further modified bracket B of the present invention and the modification includes modifications of the support arm 2 and top rail support block 9 of the fifth embodiment of bracket B as shown inFigs. 14 and 15. That is, the support arm 2 is provided in an upper portion of the leading end thereof with a slit 28 and a counter bore 16 is formed at the leading end face 18 in coaxial with the threaded bore 12. On the other hand, the boss 10 on the top rail support block 9 is formed with a through bore 14 for the connector bolt 11. The thickness of the boss 10 is so determined that the boss 10 is received in the slit 28 in the support arm 2. Thus, the corresponding components of the bracket B in Fig. 25 are shown by the same reference numerals as those used for the similar or identical components of the fifth embodiment of bracketB as shown in Figs. 14 and 15. Figs. 26 and 27 show modified top rail support blocks 9 suitable for use in connection with the bracketsB as shown in Figs. 14 through 17. The top rail support block 9 of Fig. 26 is suitably employed in connection with handrails of elliptical cross section. The top rail support block 9 of Fig. 26 has the mounting portion 4 the inner surface of which is provided with a plurality of ribs 29 spaced vertically and extending in the longitudinal direction of the mounting portion. The top rail support block 9 of Fig. 27 is suitably employed in connection with handrails of truly circular cross section and has the mounting portion 4 the inner surface of which is formed as the saw toothed surface.The top rail support blocks 9 of Figs. 26 and 27 can be connected to top rails H more firmly by the provision of the particular mounting portions 4. Figs. 28 to 30 inclusive show a ninth embodiment of bracket of the invention. In the bracket B of these Figures, the mounting block 1 and support arm 2 is so modified that the connector means or the connector bolt 11 of the third embodiment as shown in Figs. 8 and 9 is replaced by connector bolt nut means 11, 32. In the ninth embodiment of bracket B, the threaded through bore 12 extending from the support arm 2 through the mounting block 1 in the third embodiment of bracketB is replaced by a through bore 26, a detent counter bore 31 is formed on the inner side of the mounting block 1 in communication with the through hole 26 and a nut 32 is screwed on the connector bolt 11 in the counter bore 31. The detent counter bore 31 has the depth d substantially corresponding to the height of the nut 32. The mounting block 1 is formed on the inner side thereof with a recess 33 so that a clearance S is formed between the wall W and the inner side of the mounting block 1. the dimension of the clearance S is, of course, smaller than that of the counter bore 32 whereby when the nut 32 is screwed onto the threaded portion of the connector bolt 11 extending through the through bore 14 in the boss 10 of the top rail support block 9 and through the through bore 26 extending from the support arm 2 into the mounting block 1, even when the connector bolt 11 pushes the nut 32, the nut 32 abuts against the wall W and is prevented from coming out of the detent counter bore 31. Fig. 31 shows a further modified bracket of the invention and in this modification, the counter bore 16 formed in the boss 10 on the top rail support block 9 in the bracket B as shown in Figs. 28 to 30 inclusive is eliminated. In this modification, the connector bolt 11 is passed from the mounting block 1 therethrough into and through the boss 10 and the nut 32 is screwed onto the protruding threaded end portion of the connector bolt 11 to thereby secure the top rail support block 9 to the support arm 2. Thus, the corresponding components of the brackets B of Figs. 28 to 31 inclusive are also shown by the same reference numerals as those used for the third embodiment components as shown in Figs 8 and 9. Figs. 32 and 33 show a tenth embodiment of bracketB of the invention. In this embodiment, as shown in Figs.32 and 33, the detent counter bore 31 in the ninth embodiment of bracket B as shown in Figs. 28 to 31 inclusive is replaced by a detent groove 34 formed in the mounting block 1 and support arm 2, the counter bore 16 formed in the boss 10 on the top rail support block 9 in the ninth embodiment is modified to a larger counter bore 35 and the connector means 11 in the foregoing embodiments is replaced by threaded bar with stopper nut means 36, 32. The stopper 37 on the threaded bar 36 is connected to the threaded bar 36 by a pin in such a manner that when the threaded bar 36 is disposed horizontally the stopper 37 orients itself vertically by its own weight. Thus, in the bracket B of Figs. 32 and 33, the mounting block 1 is first secured to the wall W by screw means and the sleeve portion 15 is fitted into the bore 13 in the support arm 2 integral with the mounting block 1 until the boss 10 abuts against the leading end face of the support arm 2 to thereby position the top rail support block 9 on the support arm 2. Thereafter, the threaded bar 36 is passed through the aligned through bores 26, 14 in the support arm and boss 2, 10 until the stopper 37 is positioned in the detent groove 34 and the nut 32 is tightened on the threaded bar 36. After the top rail support block 9 has been secured to the support arm 2 by means of the threaded bar and nut assembly 36, 32 in the manner mentioned above, a cap 38 is snapped into the counter bore 35 to cover the exposed threaded end portion of the bar 36 and the nut 32. The corresponding components of the bracket B of Fig. 32 and 34 are also shown by the same reference numerals as those used for the similar or identical components of the brackets B of Figs. 28 to 30. Application to Industry As clear from the foregoing description on the various embodiments of the invention, in order to install handrail top rails at supporting areas associated with staircases, floors and the like in buildings such as walls and particularly, limited areas such as walls associated with staircases and floors, the brackets B can be easily employed in conformity with the winding and sloping characteristics required for the top rails of handrails to be installed Furthermore, the brackets B are widely employed in connection with handrail top rails and guard rails which are installed at continuous support areas, which are formed of resilient material such as soft synthetic resin, semi hard synthetic resin or synthetic rubber and which have metal cores embedded therein. While various embodiments of the invention have been shown and described in detail, it will be understood that these are for the purpose of illustration purpose only and are not to be taken as a definition of the scope of the invention, reference being had for this purpose to the appended claims.