# Binding system for sausages to season with permanent pressure effect.

## Abstract
Binding system for sausages to season with per manentpressure effect using an elastic natrual latex thread 6 for alimentary use, covered on the outside with cotton threads 7 spirally wrapped for containing sausages and meats in general by means of spiral wrapping in order to obtain the permanent pressing effect of the binding medium on the core therein contained, even after the contraction of volume occurred when seasoning. The binding, including also the longitudinal stiff threads for completing the net scheme, permits binding forms with a perception of appearance quite analogous to the traditional ones.

## Claims
Claims 1. Binding system for sausages to season with permenent pressure effect, characterized by the fact that for binding sausages and meats in general, it uses a thread with elastic core extruded from natural latex and covered with natural cotton threads in spiral form, with a view to exerting a containing effect uniformly distil buted with pressure in a permanent way, by means of its spiral woun ding on the containing core, useful for acting as an accelerating means in the seasoning process, preserving the products from ripe ning inconveniences. 2. Binding system for sausages to season with permanent pressure effect, as per the previous claim, characterized by the fact that the employ of the core coating of elastic thread with spiral cotton threads allows the preserve the elastic effect to the binding medium and a visible perception of conventional type thread apt to be used for obtaining the net binding with a visible perception analogous to the traditional ones. 3. Binging system for sausages to season with permanent pressure effect, as per the previous claims, characterized by the fact that the use of an elastic core extruded from natural latex permits the direct use of the bound product when cooking excluding inconvenien ces. 4. Binding system for sausages to season with permanent pressure effect, according to the above claims, characterized by the fact that, in other version, the spiral wrapping employs elastic thread 5 foreseen in spirals more spaced out. 6. Binding system for sausages to season with permanent pressure effect, as per the above claims, characterized by the fact that it employs a binding means with elastic thread core 6 extruded from natural lated and covered with cotton threads in spiral. form 7. 7. Binding system for sausages to season with permanent pressure effect, according to the previous claims, characterized by the fact that it uses a binding means with double elastic thread core extru ded from natural latex and covered with spiral cotton threads.

## Description
BINDING SYSTEM FOR SAUSAGES TO SEASON WITH PERMANENT PRESSUREEFFECT The invention refers to the use of a binding means for sausages and meats in general, consisting essentially of an elastic core in natural latex for alimentary use, outerly covered with cotton thread plot, for containing sausages and meats in general with permanent pressure effect by means of spiral wrapping, and to com pletewith net binding by means of conventional longitudinal con nections with stiff thread.In this way the double aim is reached to exert a permanent pressure effect on the stuff contained, which is useful for obtaining an efficient seasoning, and an acce leration inthe executioni times, as well to carry out a net binding with a visible perception quite analogous to the one of the conventional type.The latex for alimentary use, moreover, avoids inconveniences even when the bound core is directly cooked.At present, the binding of sausages, even if different in forms, substantially foresees a containing net which, in the initial phase, exerts a pressing action for containing the core. This action is useful for avoiding particularly air infiltrations which would damage seasoning and to favour softening of lean meats through fusion andd dispersion of the fat parts. However, if efficacious in the preparation phase, the present bindings quickly cease to exert a pressing action on the core in seasoning since this one progressively reduces its encumbrance sizes. The invent ion, through the core containing with spiral wrapping of elastic thread, enables the solution of the problem arising from the re ducibleness of the contained core volume.Some execution version are illustrated in a quite indicative way on the drawings of table 1 where fig. 1 is the view of a sausage of the mortadella type with envelope 1 and initial bindings 2.Fig. 2 shows the subsequent application of the stiff threads 3 with longitudinal disposition, and fig. 3 is the view of the com pletion of the net binding performed by means of the spiral wrap l ping of the thread 4 with inside elastic core. Fig. 4 is the view of the salame type sausage enwrapped with the same system but with elastic thread 5 in more spaced spirals. In the fig. 5 version the particular of the net scheme is illustrated which employs a binding medium with elastic thread core 6 extruded from natural la tex and covered with cotton threads wounds in spiral form 7. Fig. 6 shows another net scheme using an elastic binding medium with double thread core extruded from natural latex and covered with cotton thread in spiral form 9.In practice, the core conformation with elastic thread that of the wounding plot and the materials may vary according to the ope rative requirements. Particularly, the spiral wounding of the con tained core allows to the elastic binding means to exert a permanent containing pressure effect uniformly distributed which opera tes as an accelerating means in the seasoning procedure, efficien tly preserving the products from conservation inconveniences.