# Method for increasing the productivity of a well penetrating an underground formation.

## Abstract
A low viscosity acid is injected into a fracture containing a high viscosity fluid. The injection takes place through perforations in the casing or production tubing, and the acid follows fingering flow paths in the fracture. The perforations are widely spaced at least 60 centimetres distance between the perforations to prevent merging of these flow paths close to the well.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method for increasing the productivity of a well penetrating an underground formation substantially consisting of acid soluble rock comprises the sequential steps of 1 installing a casing in the well, and introducing a plurality of passages in the wall thereof, which passages are spaced at least 60 centimetres from one another along the longitudinal axis of the casing 2 inducing a fracture containing a viscous fluid in the formation, such that the well is in the plane of the fracture 3 injecting an acid solution through the passages into the fracture at a pressure at which the fracture remains open, the viscosity ratio between the viscous fluid and the acid solution being chosen such that the viscous fluid is dis placed in the fracture in an instable manner by the acid solution 4 continuing the injection of the acid solution through the passages until channels have been etched in areas of the fracture walls that face each other. 5 lowering the fluid pressure in the fracture, thereby allow ing the fracture walls to be displaced to closing position and 6 lowering the viscosity cf the viscous fluid. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the steps 5 and 6 take place simultaneously. 3. The method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the said passages are spaced from one another at a distance between 90 and 180 centimetres. h. The method according to any one of the claims 1 3, wherein at least one of the passages consists of a cluster of perforations that have been shot in the wall of the casing. 5. The method according to claim 4, wherein the perforations of a cluster are spaced between 5 and 10 centimetres from one another along the longitudinal axis of the casing. 6. The method according to any one of claims 1 5, wherein the viscosity ratio between the fracturing fluid and the acid solution is at least 150. 7. The method according to claim 6, wherein the viscosity ratio is between 200 and 300. 8. A method of increasing the productivity of a well substantially as described in the specification with reference to the drawing.

## Description
METHOD FOR INCREASING THE PRODUCTIVITY OF A WELL PENETRATING AN UNDERGROUND FORiATIOIs The invention relates to a method for increasing the production of a well penetrating an underground formation. In particular, preset invention relates to a method for increasing the productivity of a well penetrating a formation substantially consisting of acid soluble rock, by fracturing the formation parts in the vicinity of the well and subjecting the fracture thus formed to an acid treatment. In the recovery of hydrocarbon fluids from underground formations, use is made of wells that communicate with such formations.Hydrocarbon fluids present in the pore space of the formations flow into such wells and are lifted in these wells to the surface of the earth. Often, however, the productivity of a hydrocarboncontaining formation is relatively low and the hydrocarbons flow into the well at an uneconomical rate. Various techniques for productivity increase are already known, such as fracturing, which technique makes use of a fluid that is injected via the well into the hydrocarbon containing formation surrounding the well. The fluid is injected at a pressure sufficiently high to fracture the formation, whereby a vertical fracture will be formed in the majority of cases.The fluid pressure in the well is subsequently released and hydrocarbons are allowed to flow out of the pore space into such fracture and to pass through the fracture to the well, in which they are further transported to the surface of the earth. To prevent closing of the fracture after the pressure of the fracturing fluid has been lowered, a propping agent may be added to the fracturing fluid, this propping agent remaining in the fracture after it has been formed and preventing the full closure thereof after the fluid pressure in the fracture has been reduced from the fracturing pressure to the normal well pressure. In another manner productivity increase may be obtained by increasing the permeability of the formation by injecting an acid composition through the well into the pore space.Application of such an acid treatment is particularly attractive in formations substantially consisting of acid soluble rock, such as calcium carbonate rock. The acid reacts with the formation rock, thereby opening and enlarging passages in the formation, so that the permeability of the formation parts surrounding the well is increased in order to facilitate flow of hydrocarbons in the subsequent production period. In an alternative manner, a fracturing fluid with acid properties may be used for productivity increase in wells.In another alternative manner, the formation may be first fractured whereafter an acid solution is injected into the fracture induced in the formation. Object of the invention is to improve the productivity increase that can be reached in an oil containing formation by a combined fracturing acidizing treatment. The method according to the invention for increasing the productivity of a well penetrating an underground formation substantially consisting of acid soluble rock comprises the sequential steps of 1 installing a casing in the well, and introducing a plurality of passages in the wall thereof, which passages are spaced at least 60 centimetres from one another along the longitudinal axis of the casing 2 inducing a fracture containing a viscous fluid in the formation sucii that the well is in the plane of the fracture 3 injecting an acid solution through the passages into the fracture at a pressure at which the fracture remains open, the viscosity ratio between the viscous fluid and the acid solution being chosen such that the viscous fluid is displaced in the fracture in an instable manner by the acid solution 4 continuing the injection of the acid solution through the passages until channels have been etched in areas of the fracture walls that face each other 5 lowering the fluid pressure in the fracture, thereby allowing the fracture walls to be displaced to closing position and 6 lowering the viscosity of the viscous fluid. Extremely good results when applying the method according to the invention will be reached by arranging the passages in the wall of the casing at a distance between 90 and 180 centimetres from one another, said distance being measured along the longitudinal axis of the casing. The instable displacement of the viscous fluid in the fracture by a less viscous acid solution results in the formation of fingering flow paths of the acid solution through the viscous fluid present in the fracture. The acid solution in flowing along these paths, locally contacts the walls of the fracture, thereby etching away those parts thereof that line these paths.Consequently, channels are left at the locations of the paths after the fluid pressure in the fracture is released to allow the fracture to close. It has been found that an effective increase of the well productivity will only be reached if the acid is injected into the fracture through passages in the wall of the casing that are spaced from one another at distances that are at least 60 centimetres. Merging of the flow paths of the acid solution at a distance close to the well is thereby prevented. Such merging of flow paths, which paths are the base of the flow channel system that is eventually formed by the acid action on the fracture wells, would decrease the area of the drainage zones of the fracture bounding the flow channel system, and consequently limit the production rate of hydrocarbons from the formation zones that bound said fracture area. The passages are normally formed by perforations that are shot in the casing wall in a known manner. Each passage may consist of a single perforation that is arranged at a distance of at least 60 centimetres from a neighbouring perforation.In an alternative manner, a passage may consist of a plurality of perforations that are shot in the casing wall at a relatively short distance from each other, say at a distance between 5 and 10 centimetres measured along the axis of the casing . Each passage thus consists of a cluster of perforations, each cluster consisting of, say, 2 5 perforations and being situated at a distance of at least 60 centimetres from the neighbouring clusters. An embodiment of the method according to the invention will now be described by way of example. Reference is made to the drawing which schematically shows a vertical section over a well penetrating subsurface formation layers. This vertical section is in the plane of a vertical fracture co operating with the well. The well 1 comprises a large diameter casing 2 and a casing 3 of smaller diameter suspended from the wellhead 4 in the borehole 5 penetrating the subsurface formation layers 6. The casings are cemented in a manner known per se and the lower parts of the cement layer 7 and the casing 3 have been perforated by a prforator gun not shown at a level where they face the oilcontaining formation 8 which substantially consists of limestone.After the perforations 9 have been formed, a viscous fracturing liquid is pumped down via the wellhead 4 through the casing 3 or a production tubing not shown suspended therein. The viscous liquid enters the pore space of the formation 8 facing the perforations 9 at a pressure sufficiently high to form a fracture 10. The maximum tectonic compressive stress direction in the formation 8 is in a horizontal plane, and the plane of the fracture 10 will consequently be vertical. Since the borehole 5 has been drilled in a vertical direction, the borehole will be situated in the plane of the fracture. After a sufficient amount of liquid has been injected to create a fracture 10 of the required area, an acid solution is pumped down the well, which acid solution flows through the perforations 9 and into the fracture 10 which still contains the viscous fluid. Fluid supply to the fracture is maintained at a sufficiently high value to maintain the fracture open during all these operations. The viscosity ratio between the viscous fluid present in the fracture 10 and the acid solution that is being injected into the fracture is chosen such that the viscous fluid is being displaced in the fracture by the acid solution in an instable manner. As a result thereof, the acid solution forms fingering paths 11 in the mass of viscous fluid. Each path 11 is bounded by the viscous fluid in a vertical sense, and by parts of the fracture walls that are situated at a small distance from one another, say, 2 6 millimetres in a horizontal sense.The acid solution reacts with the rock where the acid is in contact with the fracture walls, thereby etching channels in the fracture walls, which channels match in such a way that on closing of the fracture walls by lowering the fluid pressure therein and allowing the viscosity of the fracturing fluid to break down a channel system is formed consisting of a plurality of channels, each channel extending between a perforation 9 in the casing 3 and a location in the formation 8 that is situated at an appreciable distance from the borehole 5. The instable displacement of the fracturing fluid by the acid solution, which causes the flow paths of the acid solution to obtain a fingering configuration, is already reached at relatively low values of the viscosity ratio, such as in the order of 50. For restricting the cross sectional area of the acid fingers, thereby increasing the lµeral extension of each fingering path with respect to the borehole 5, the viscosity ratio should be increased to a value of 150 or thereabove.An excellent fingering displacement will be reached at a viscosity ratio between 200 and 300. The vertical spacing between the perforations 9 applied in the method according to the invention is at least 60 centimetres.Merging at a close distance of the well of two or more flows of acid solution that spring from neighbouring perforations 9 is thereby prevented. Such merging of two or more flows would result in a single fingering flow path, thereby decreasing the area of the drainage zone of the fracture as compared with the area of the drainage zone bounding a plurality of flow paths. As shown in the drawing, the flow paths 11 A and ll B merge at the location 12. This location, however, is situated at an appreciable distance from the well since the perforations 9 are situated at a distance of 60 centimetres from each other measured along the axis of the casing 3, and will therefore negatively influence the desired productivity increase to a small extent only. Merging of two flow paths at some distance from the well is therefore considered allowable in most cases.However, if maximum productivity increase is required, the distance between the passages 9 should be increased, and may be between 90 and 180 centimetres. After the channels have been etched in the fracture walls to an appreciable depth, the fluid pressure in the fracture is released and the viscosity of the viscous fluid present in the fracture is allowed to break down. Pressure release and viscosity breakdown may take place simultaneously. The fracture closes as a result thereof and the matching channels that have been etched in opposite areas of the fracture walls then form channel like passageways through which oil will subsequently pass from the pore space of the formation 8 to the perforations 9 of the well 1. To promote this flow of oil, the pressure in the well 1 may be reduced to a required value. It will be appreciated that application of the invention is not restricted to any particular way in which the well 1 is completed, and in which the passages 9 are made in the well tubing. Further, any type of fluid that is suitable for fracturing the formation 8 may be used for this purpose. The fracturing fluid may either be a fluid with relatively high viscosity or a low viscosity fluid. In the latter case, the low viscosity fluid injection is followed by the injection of a high viscosity fluid that displaces the low viscosity fluid in the fracture.The supply pressure of the low viscosity fluid is chosen sufficiently high to maintain the fracture open. Examples of high viscosity fluids that may be applied in the present method are gelled water, hydrocarbon in water emulsions, water in hydrocarbon emulsions, and gelled hydrocarbons.A viscosity breaker may be added to the viscous fluid, which viscosity breaker breaks the viscosity of the fluid after a predetermined interval, either under influence of the temperature prevailing in the fractured formation, or by a retarded chemical reaction, or by any other mechanism. Such viscosity breakers are known per se, and do not need to be described in detail. It will be understood that the original viscosity of the viscous fluid should substantially be maintained during the injection of the acid solution. The viscosity of the fluid is allowed to break down after the fluid pressure in the fracture has been released, or simultaneously with such pressure release. It will be appreciated that a large variety of acids, either inorganic or organic, is available, which acids are capable for etching the formation rock of subterranean formations that are to be treated by the method according to the invention. For etching a calcium carbonate formation such as a limestone formation or a dolomite formation , use may be made of aqueous solutions of hydrochloric acid, acetic acid, formic acid, or mixtures thereof. Retarders may be added to such solutions if considered necessary. To protect the equipment in the borehole or well, it is often advisable to add corrosion inhibitors to the solution. In an alternative manner, solutions may be used wherein the acid is formed in situ in the formation by means of a retarded chemical reaction. Such solutions are known per se and do not require any detailed description. Buffer fluids may be injected into the formation being treated by the present method, such buffer fluids being injected between the fracturing fluid and the acid solution. Buffer fluids are known per se and do not need to be described in detail. If desired, pretreatment fluids may be injected prior to the injection of the fracturing fluid. All fluids that are injected via the well may have a fluid loss preventing agent added thereto. In case the distribution of the acid over the passages9 is not uniform, diverting agents known per se may be applied for obstructing the flow of fluid through those passages via which appreciable amounts of acid have already passed into the fracture 10, thereby forming etched channel pairs of sufficient extension.By obstructing these passages, the remainder of the acid to be injected will then flow through the other passages via which in the initial acid injection phase relatively small amounts of acid have passed only, said small amounts having formed fingering paths of restricted extension. The flow rate of acid through these latter passages is then increased and the fingering paths extend thereby to the required size. Such diverting process may be repeated as many times as required. It will be appreciated that if the well 1 is not vertical, the direction thereof should be chosen such that the well is within the plane of the fracture 10. This means that the minimum tectonic compressive stress direction in the formation 8 should be ascertained such as by drilling a test well, fracturing the formation around said well and measuring the orientation of said fracture and the well should be drilled in a direction deviating from the vertical, but in a plane that is approximately orthogonally located with respect to the said minimum tectonic compressive stress direction. The distances between the passages in the wall of the casing applied in the present method are measured along the longitudinal axis of the casing. The passages may be situated in a straight line along said casing, or in two or more of such straight lines.The passages shown in the drawing are situated in two straight lines. It will be appreciated that the passages do not need to be situated in the plane of the fracture to be formed as shown in the drawing , since the fracturing fluid on entering the formation after leaving the passages will break the formation in a direction orthogonal to the minimum tectonic stress direction, irrespective of the situation of the passages with respect to this direction. Thus, the centres of the passages may be situated on a spiral line on the casing wall, or according to any other pattern, provided that the distance between a passage consisting either of a single perforation or of a cluster of perforations and the neighbouring passages is at least 60 centimetres measured in a direction along the longitudinal axis of the casing. It may be advantageous when applying the present method in particular types of subterranean acid soluble formations, to supply a propping agent to the fracture either prior to, or after the acidizing step of the method according to the present invention. Summarizing it is observed that the present invention relates to the formation of a plurality of channel like passageways in the walls of a fracture induced in an acid soluble formation.The channels are etched in the formation walls by injecting acid of relatively low viscosity into the fracture when the latter is open and contains a relatively viscous fluid. The acid flows into the fracture via a plurality of perforations in the well casing.The viscosity difference between the relatively viscous fluid and the acid causes the acid flows to finger through the fluid, as a result whereof the channels are formed. To prevent merging of the acid flows close to the well, the perforations are spaced at sufficiently large distances at least 60 centimetres from each other.