# Address generator for multiple virtual address spaces.

## Abstract
The disclosure provides a general purpose register GR mask which associates predesignated address spaces with respective GRs assigned to contain a base value for calculating logical addresses within the address spaces. An address space mask register 41 has a plurality of digit positions which receive the respective digit values comprising a particular GR mask. A respective digit position is selected by a base GR address signal provided by a storage address request from a CPU instruction decoder 6 . The particular value of the selected digit in the mask register controls the selection among a plurality of STO registers, which designate a plurality of simultaneously available address spaces. The selected base GR is used in a System 370 B, D or X, B, D type of logical storage address representation. A base GR explicitly contains an intra address space base value. The GR mask assigns an implicit inter address space designation to the base GR in a simple manner which is handled by conventional address translation hardware. The available address spaces are respectively designated in STO registers by segment table addresses called STOs . Any number of STO registers and available address spaces may be provided up to the radix of each digit in the GR mask. The executing program exists in the address space designated in one of the STO registers. A plurality of storage protect key registers 60 are respectively associated with the STO registers to control the accessing authorized to the executing program within each available address space. The key value may be independently authorized and provided for each available address space. A cross memory implementation results which enables a compatible extension of the IBM System 370 architecture by permitting the unrestricted use of all S 370 instructions including storage to storage SS instruc tions that can access data simultaneously in plural address spaces in non privileged state.