# Pharmaceutical compositions containing quinoline derivatives as active component, a method for the preparation of such compositions, new quinoline derivatives and a method for the preparation thereof.

## Abstract
A pharmaceutical composition containing a quinoline de rivative as active component in combination with a pharma ceutically suitable carrier or vehicle. The active component is a compound having the formula Said pharmaceutical compositions have desirable effects on the cardiovascular system, such as anti hypertensive, anti thrombotic, vasodilatory and in particular anti arrhythmic activ ity. Furthermore, the invention comprises a method for the preparation of said pharmaceutical compositions. Active com pounds having the above formula and a process for the prepar ation thereof are also covered by the present invention.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A pharmaceutical composition containing a quinoline derivative as active component, characterized in that it contains as active component at least a compound having formula 1,EMI8.1 in which R1 is H or a C 1 6 alkoxy or C36 alkoxyalkoxy group and R2 represents ethyl or vinyl, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in combination with a pharmaceutically suitable carrier or vehicle. 2. A method for the preparation of a pharmaceutical composition, characterized in that at least a compound of formula 1, in which R1 and R2 are as defined above, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, is brought into a form suitable for therapeutic purposes. 3. A compound of formula 1 or a salt thereof, in whichR1 is a C16 alkoxy or C36 alkoxyalkoxy and R2 represents vinyl. 4. A compound of formula 1 or a salt thereof, in whichR1 is a C26 alkoxy or C36 alkoxyalkoxy and R2 represents ethyl. 5. A method for the preparation of a compound of formula 1, in which R1 and R2 are as defined in claim 1, characterized in that such a compound is prepared in a manner known per se for the synthesis of analogous compounds. 6. Compounds, pharmaceutical compositions and processes as described in the specification and in the examples.

## Description
PHARMACEUTICAL COMPOSITIONS CONTAINING QUINOLINEDERIVATIVES AS ACTIVE COMPONENT, A METHOD FOR THEPREPARATION OF SUCH COMPOSITIONS, NEW QUINOLINEDERIVATIVES AND A METHOD FOR THE PREPARATION THEREOF. The invention relates to pharmaceutical compositions containing quinoline derivatives as active component, a method for the preparation of such compositions, new quinoline derivatives and a method for the preparation thereof. In French Patent 73,41043 Publ. No. 2,206,944 quinoline derivatives of formula 2 are described,EMI1.1 in which X is hydrogen or methoxy, Y is hydrogen, ethyl or vinyl and R is C 1 4 alkyl, cycloalkyl or optionally substituted aralkyl or aryl, which compounds may be used for the treatment and prophylaxis of cardiovascular affections. From Ann. Pharm. Fr. 24 39 1966 the pharmacodynamic properties of quinicine formula 3 ,EMI1.2 also named viquidil, are known, in particular in the field of CNS, and the hypotensive, vasodilative and anti spasmodic activities. In British Patent 1,294,538 the use of viquidil in the treatment of cerebral vessel injury, cerebrovascular insufficiency and memory deficiency in humans is described. In Dutch Patent Application 77,06614 quinoline derivatives are described with formula 4,EMI2.1 in which R is hydrogen, C14 alkyl or C 2 4 alkenyl and X is hydrogen, halogen, C14 alkyl, alkoxy, or alkylthio, trifluoromethyl, nitro, hydroxy, an amino group optionally substituted by one or two C14 alkyl groups, or C14 acyl or alkylsulfonyl group, which compounds have a serotonin uptake inhibiting effect and anti arrhythmic activity. The German Patent Application DT 2,949,993 discloses the compounds of formula 5,EMI2.2 wherein R and X are both H or R is vinyl or ethyl and X is H or methoxy. Said compounds are used for treatment of anxiety. The U.S. Patents 3,873,549 and 3,914,235 disclose compounds of formula 6,EMI2.3 and their antipodes and racemates, where m 0, 1 or 2 R1 OH, halogen, CF3, methyl, ethyl, propyl, butyl or methoxy or, when in is 2, R1 with an adjacent R may also be methylenedioxy and R2 is vinyl or ethyl, as intermediates for quinine and quinidine compounds of known use as antimalarials and anti arrhythmics, whereas such compounds showed bactericidal activity. In J. Am. Chem. Soc. 44 1098 1922 the preparation of compounds of formula 7 is described,EMI3.1 in which P is H or methoxy and 0 is ethyl, by simultaneous catalytic reduction of the ketone and vinyl group of cinchonicine or guinicine respectively giving rise to dihydrocinchonicinol or dihydroquinicinol. A.D. Ainly and H. King, Proc. Roy. Soc. London B 125, 49 1938 Chem. Abstr. 32, 4219b, 1938 reported that above dihydroquiniconol did not show anti malaria activity. In Germant Patent 330,813 1920 the preparation of cinchonicinol cinchotoxol of formula 7 in which P is H and Q is vinyl is described but no biological activity is claimed. Surprisingly, it has now been found, that quinoline derivatives of formula 1 substituted at the 4 position and notionally at the 6 Dosition, and in which the substituent at the 4 position contains a 3 3 substituted 4 piperidyl propanol l group, possess unexpected pharmacological properties, namely desirable effects on the cardiovascular system such as anti hypertensive, anti thrombotic, vasodilatory and anti arrhythmic activity. The compounds are particularly useful for the use in medicines having anti hypertensive and anti arrhythmic activity. The substituents at the 3 and 4 position of the piperidine ring are in the cis position. Accordingly the invention is concerned with a pharmaceutical composition containing a quinoline derivative as active component, characterized in that it contains as active component at least a compound having formula 1,EMI4.1 in which R1 is H or a C16 alkoxy or a C36 alkoxyalkoxy and R2 represents ethyl or vinyl, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in combination with a pharmaceutically suitable carrier or vehicle. Furthermore, the invention relates to a method for the preparation of a pharmaceutical composition, characterized in that at least a compound of formula 1, in which R1 and R2 are as defined above, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, is brought into a form suitable for therapeutic purposes. The present invention also deals with new compounds of formula 1 per se, or a salt thereof, in which R1 is a C 1 6 alkoxy or a C36 alkoxyalkoxy and R2 is vinyl and new compounds of formula 1, in which R1 is a C26 alkoxy or a C36 alkoxyalkoxy and R2 is ethyl. Finally, the present invention relates to a method for the preparation of a compound of formula 1, in whichR1 and R2 are defined as above, characterized in that such a compound is prepared in a manner known per se for the synthesis of analogous compounds. So our invention relates to propanol 1 auinoline derivatives of formula 1, whereas was found that a so called propanol 2 quinoline derivative of formula 6 as mentioned in the U.S. Patents 3,873,549 and 3,914,235, in which m 1 and R1 is a methoxy group in the 6 position and R2 is ethyl formula 6a EMI4.2 was inactive in our anti arrhythmic screen using the electro stimulation test described hereafter. Preparation The compounds of formula 1 may be prepared using methods described in the literature per se. Compounds of formula 1, in which R2 is vinyl can be prepared from cinchonicine derivatives of formula 8EMI5.1 which are substituted in position 6 with R1 is hydrogen or alkoxy or alkoxyalkoxy by a selective reduction using sodium borohydride, which selectively reduces the ketone group to an alcohol group whereas the vinyl group remains unattacked. This reduction is advantageously carried out at a temperature of about 5 to 100C in a suitable solvent, like alcohol, c.q. isopropylalcohol. Example I Quinicinol l.bifumarate reaction 1 EMI5.2 Quinicine, 73 g 225 mmol was dissolved in 350 ml of isopropyl alcohol, after which the mixture was cooled to 100C. A solution of 10.0 g 263 mmol of sodium borohydride in 225 ml isopropyl alcohol was then added in such a way that the temperature did not exceed 50C. The mixture was stirred for another hour at 100C till the conversion was substantially completed. The conversion was followed with thin layer chromatography. The mixture was then allowed to rise to room temperature, after which 400 ml of water was added. The mixture was extracted three times with 400 ml of chloroform.The collected chloroform fractions were dried over magnesium sulphate, filtered and evaporated at reduced pressure, which afforded quinicinol l as an oil. The base was converted to its bifumarate mol.ratio 1 1 with an equivalent amount of fumaric acid. The bifumarate had a melting point of 168 1700C. The yield was 54.0 g quinicinol l .bifumarate 558 . In the same way were prepared the following compounds reaction 2 EMI6.1 EMI6.2 tb Example SEP R1 SEP R2 SEP m.p C salt tb II SEP CH30 SEP CH2 CH3 SEP 176 178 SEP BF tb III SEP H SEP CH SEP SEP CH2 SEP 138 140 SEP BF tb IV SEP H SEP CH2 CH3 SEP oil tb V SEP C2H5O SEP CH2 CH3 SEP 184 186 SEP BF SEP tb VI SEP n C3H70 SEP CH2 CH3 SEP 160 SEP TO tb VII SEP i C5H11O SEP CH2 SEP CH3 SEP 152 SEP TO tb VIII SEP CH3O CH2 2 O SEP CH2 SEP CH3 SEP 128 130 SEP TO tb TO tetraoxalate mol.ratio 1 2 BF bifumarate mol.ratio 1 1 PHARMACOLOGY .Effectiveness of the compounds of Examples in the Guinea Pigs Electrostimulation Test. Arrhythmias are induced in guinea pigs by electrostimulation of the right ventricle of the heart. The animals are anaesthesized with urethane 1.2 g kg i.p. and artificially respirated before a needle electrode is inserted in the right venticle of the heart. Substances are given intraduodinally 30 min. before the stimulation at a standard dose of 32 mg kg. The voltage needed for induction of extra systoles in control animals n 6 is compared with that required for induction of arrhythmias in treated animals n 6 . This method is based on the work of L. Szekeres andG.J. Papp, Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch. Exp. Path. Pharmak., 245, 70 1963 . In the table the results of certain compounds of the invention are mentioned, which have been carried out according to the method escribed above. The numbers of the compounds correspond with those of the Examples.EMI7.1 tb SEP Compound SEP no. SEP Dose SEP Percent SEP increase SEP in SEP voltage tb SEP mg kg SEP SEP required SEP for SEP arrhythmia tb Reference SEP com tb pound SEP of SEP 16 SEP 0 tb formula SEP 6a tb SEP I SEP 32 SEP 114 tb SEP 16 SEP 25 tb SEP II SEP 32 SEP 176 tb SEP 16 SEP 33.9 tb SEP III SEP 32 SEP 35 tb SEP VII SEP 23.5 SEP SEP 85 tb