# Mark recording systems.

## Abstract
The invention relates to mark recording systems, for example carbonless copying paper, in which a colourless chromogen is brought into contact with a chromogen sensitizing agent in the presence of a liquid solvent for the chromogen, thereby producing a visible mark. In a system of the invention, the chromogen is a derivative of diphenylmethanol or diphenylmethylamine, the sensitizing agent is an acid clay, and the solvent comprises an aliphatic benzyl phthalate.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A pressure sensitive mark recording system comprising a sheet material, b mark forming components supported by the sheet material and arranged in juxtaposition but in unreactive condition, the said components comprising a chromogen which is a derivative of diphenylmethanol or of diphenylmethylamine and an acid clay sensitizer for the chromogen which produces a colour from the chromogen when brought into contact with the chromogen in the presence of a liquid solvent for the chromogen and c the said liquid solvent supported by the sheet material but separated from the sensitizing agent by a physical barrier which is rupturable on the application of a marking instrument to the sheet material, characterised in that the liquid solvent comprises an aliphatic benzyl phthalate. 2. A system according to Claim 1 in which the aliphatic group of the aliphatic benzyl phthalate is an alkyl group containing up to 24 carbon atoms. 3, A system according to Claim 2 in which the aliphatic benzyl phthalate is a butyl unsubstituted benzyl phthalate or an octyl unsubstituted benzyl phthalate. 4. A system according to Claim 1 in which the aliphatic group of the aliphatic benzyl phthalate is derived from an alkyl ester of a hydroxy carboxylic acid or from a hydroxy cl 12 alkyl ester of an aliphatic C1 carboxylic acid. 5. A solution according to Claim 4 in which the aliphatic benzyl phthalate is 7 2,6,6, 8 tetramethyl 4 oxa 3 oxonoyl unsubstituted bnzyl phthalate. 6. A system according to Claim 1 in which the aliphatic group of the aliphatic benzyl phthalate is an alkyl group containing from 2 to 12 carbon atoms. 7. A system according to any of Claims 1 to 6 in which the solvent is a mixture of at least one aliphatic benzyls phthalate and a hydrocarbon diluent containing at least 50 by weight of the aliphatic benzyl phthalate or phthalates.

## Description
MARK RECORDING SYSTEMS This invention relates to pressure sensitive markrecording systems. The most familiar form of pressuresensitive mark recording system is the so called carbonless copying paper which comprises a two sheet system in which the under surface of the top sheet has a coating of microcapsules of a solution of a colourless chromogen, while the upper surface of the lower receiver sheet has an absorbent coating including a sensitizing agent for the chromogen. When a marking instrument is applied to the top sheet, the microcapsules are locally ruptured, thereby releasing the chromogen solution from the affected microcapsules to react with the underlying sensitizing agent and form coloured marks on the receiver sheet corresponding to the marks applied to the top sheet. A successful carbonless copying paper system needs to meet a number of criteria. For example the marks on the receiver sheet should develop rapidly to a legible intensity of colour and a legible mark should persist for as long as the sheet is reqúlre d to be kept. Whether the various criteria are mt depends on a number of factors including the nature of the chromogen, the solvent and the sensitizing agent and many different materials of each category have been proposed. Chromogens which have been proposed include phthallde derivatives, for example crystal violet lactone, and Malachite green lactone, indole substituted pyromellitides, leucauramines, and diphenyl m elhane derivatives such as Michlervs hydrol.Solvents which have been proposed include hydrocarbons, for instance petroleum fractions or synthetic hydro carbons such as hydrogenated terphenyls, halogenated hydrocarbons, for instance chlorinated biphenyls, and esters, for instance alkyl adipates and alkyl phthalates. The sensitizing agent is usually an acid clay, for example an attapulgite or bentonite clay, or an acidic organic polymer, for example a phenol aJdehyde polymer or a partially or wholly hydrolysed styrene maleic anhydride or ethylene maleic anhydride polymer. The chromogens which are probably most frequently referred to in the art are tb. phthalide derivatives, especially crystal violet lactone. These chromogens are usually used in solution in a hydrocarbon type solvent. One reason for this choice of solvent is that although the phthalide colour formers are soluble in esters, for example, it is found that esters and certain other solvents having similar polarity to the esters, show too great a tendency to compete with the chromogen in affinity for the sensitizing agent, so that in some cases, no colour development occurs. This is especially so with certain acid clay sensitizing agents. Certain chromogens that are diphenyl methane derivatives are less subject to this limitation and can be used in conjunction with solvents such as esters, advantages of the latter over hydrocarbons being that the chromogens dissolve more readily and have higher solubilities. The use of diphenyl methane derivatives, for instance Michlers hydrol, as chromogens in pressure sensitive mark recording systems is described 3 n, for example, British Patent Specification 1,381,928 andU.S. Patent Specification 4,000,087. The present invention concerns an improvement relating to the use in pressure sensitive mark recording systems, of chromogens that are diphenyl methane derivatives. A pressure sensitive mark recording system of the invention comprises a sheet material, b markforming components supported by the sheet material and arranged in juxtaposition but in unreactive condition, the said components comprising a chromogen which is a derivative of diphenylmethanol or of diphenylmethylamine and an acid clay sensitizer for the chromogen which produces a colour from the chromogen when brought into contact with the chromogen in the presence of a liquid solvent for the chromogen comprising an aliphatic benzyl phthalate and c the said liquid solvent supported by the sheet material but separated from the sensitizing agent by a physical barrier which is rupturable on the application of a marking instrument to the sheet material. Compared with the solvents, for example xylene or dibutyl phthalates, hitherto proposed for use in conjunction with chromogens that are diphenylmethane derivatives, use of solvents in accordance with the present invention results in an improvement in the resistance to fading of the marks on the receiver sheet during storage, particularly if storage occurs under conditions where fading is due to the action of oxygen. In an aliphatic benzyl phthalate useful in the present invention, one of the phthalate carboxyl groups is esterified by an aliphatic group and the other by a benzyl group.The aliphatic group can, for example, contain up to 24 carbon atoms, and may have a straight or a branched chain.It can, for example, be an alkyl group, for example an ethyl, n propyl, isopropyl, n butyl, isobutyl, sec butyl, n hexyl,. isohexyl, n octyl, 2 ethylhexyl, decyl,tetradecyl or octadecyl group. Preferred alkyl groups. contain from 2 to 12 carbon atoms. Alternatively, the aliphatic group may be an alkoxyalkyl or a group derived from an alkyl group by the replacement of more than one CH2 group by the same number of oxygen atoms, and it may thus be, for istance, an ethoxyethyl or a 3,6,9 trioxaundecyl group.A third possibility is that the aliphatic group is one derived from an alkyl ester of a hydroxy carboxylic acid, for example a C1 18 alkyl ester of glycolic acid, betahydroxypropionic acid or gamma hydroxybutyric acid or from a hydroxyalkyl ester of an aliphatic carboxylic acid, where the hydroxyalkyl radical and the aliphatic carboxylic acid may each contain up to 12 carbon atoms. Examples of such aliphatic groups are butoxycarbonylmethyl, 2 ethylhexyloxy carbonylmethyl, 2 ethylcarbonyoxy ethyl and 7 2,6,6, 8 tetramethyl 4 oxa 3 oxononyl . As used herein, theterm benzyl is intended to cover both unsubstituted benzyl C6E5CH2 and substituted benzyl, especially alkyl substituted benzyl. For example, the nucleus of the benzyl group may contain up to three alkyl substituentsEeach, for example, being an alkyl group having up to four carbon atoms, for instance methyl or ethyl or one or both methylene hydrogen atoms of the benzyl group may be replaced by a similar alkyl group. Specific examples of aliphatic benzyl phthalates useful in the present invention are butyl unsubstituted benzyl phthalates, for instance n butyl benzyl phthalate and isobutyl benzyl phth21ate, octyl unsubstituted benzyl phthalates, for instance n octyl benzyl phthalate and 2 ethylhexyl benzyl phthalate, and 7 2,6,6,8 oxa 3 tetrametyl 4 oxononyl unsubstituted benzyl phthalate. The solvents used in the present invention can contain more than one aliphatic benzyl phthalate, for example mixtures of alkyl benzyl phthalates having a range of alkyl group sizes, for instance a C5 C7, a C7 Cg or a C8 C12 range. The solvents may optionally contain other components, for instance dialkyl phthalates such as dibutyl phthalate and dioctyl phthalates, and various hydrocarbons, for example C6 12 alkylbenzenes, kerosene or other petroleum fractions which are useful.as diluents in certain circumstances to reduce the viscosity of the solvent. Preferably the solvent contains at least 50 by weight of an aliphatic benzyl phthalate or of a mixture of aliphatic benzyl phthalates.The proportions by weight of the aliphatic benzyl phthalate and the diluent in mixtures may, for example, range from 50 50 to 90.10, for example 60 40, 70 30, 75 25 or 80 20. For rapid development of print intensity, the solvent is preferably one having a viscosity in the range 5 to 15 centistokes at 380C. The concentration of the chromogen in a solution of the invention is generally of the same order as that in known solutions of chromogens which are diphenylmethanol or diphenylmethylamine derivatives, for example from 0.25 to 5 , more particularly from 0.4 to 4.0x by weight of the solution. Chromogens which are especially suitable for use in the present invention include Michler s hydrol, i.e. bis pdimethylaminophenyl methanol, its ethers, for example the methyl ether of Michler s hydrol and the benzyl ether ofMichler s hydrol, aromatic sulfonic and sulfinic esters ofMichler s hydrol, for example the p toluenesulfinate ofMichler s hydrol, and derivatives of bis p dimethylaminophenyl methylamine, for example N bis p dimethylaminophenyl methyl7morphol ine. Several encapsulation systems have been proposed for the encapsulation of the chromogen solution for use in carbonless copying paper, and the capsule walls in such systems generally may be formed from either natural or synthetic polymeric material. in the present invention, the capsule wall or shell is preferably made from a synthetic polymer, for example a polyurethane resin, z urea formaldehyde resin, a melamine form aldehyde resin or a polyamide resin. The use of such resins as shell forming material in encapsulation is described in, for example, U.S. Patent 3,016,308,British patent 989,264 and U.S. Patent 3,29,827.Shells of this kind can be made significantly less permeable to the aliphatic benzyl phtiiala tes used in the present invention than shells made of natural polymeric material such as gelatin. The acid clay used as sensitizing agent for the chromogen in the present invention can be any of those conventionally used for this purpose, including bentonite and attapulgite. The naturally occurring clay may be subjected to various treatments such as acid extraction or calcination before use as the sensitizing agent. The mark recording system of the present invention can be prepared according to well known conventional procedures. Descriptions of methods for preparing both the dye carrying paper and clay coated receiving paper are to be found in the literature. Although a preferred embodiment of this invention comprises two sheet system wherein the acid clay is carried by one sheet and a marking fluid comprising a chromogen and solvent is carried by a second sheet, the invention is not limited to such systems alone. The only essential requirement is that the chromogen and the acid clay be maintained in a separate or unreactive condition until pressure is applied to the system and.that upon the application of pressure the chromogen and acid clay are brought into reactive contact. Thus it is possible to have the íchromogen and acid clay present in a dry and unreactive state on a common carrier and to have the solvent alone carried on a separate sheet whereupon the application of pressure would release the solvent into the chromogen acidic material mixture and promote localized reaction and colour development.Obviously, many other arrangements, configurations and relationships of the solvent and the mark forming materials with respect to their encapsulation and location on the supporting sheet or webs can be envisaged, and such arrangements are within the scope of the present invention. For example, it is possible to coat a single paper or support member with all the components of this system to form a single self contained unit which can be marked by the movement of a stylus or other pressure imparing means upon the surface of the paper.Such papers are particularly useful for use in inkless recording instruments. Solutions of the invention were evaluated by the following technique A 0.5 by weight solution of SIichler s hydrol p touene sulfinate in the solvent was prepared. To estimate print intensity, a plate engraved with a pattern of dots was coated with sufficient of the solution to give a coating 18 microns in thickness, using a docto blade. A carriage spported roller having a paper sheet coated with an acid clay sensitizing agent wrapped round tbe roller was then moved slowly across the solution coated plate under constant pressure. Colour developed on the paper. The paper was removed from the roller, and the intensity of colour was measured using a Macbeth RD 514 reflectometer calibrated against a perfect white11 of 0.07 units of optical density and a perfect black of 1.78 units of pptical density, using standard perfect white and perfect black plates supplied by the manufacturer.After the initial reading, the paper was transferred to a cabinet at 75 C. and 40 relative humidity. It was removed at intervals for further colour intensity measurements. To cbtain the results shown in the tables below, the colour intensity was measured each time at 25 different points on the paper surface and the values were averaged. The following abbreviations are used DBP dibutyl phthalate DOP dioctyl phthalate BBP butyl benzyl phthalate OBP octyl benzyl phthalate TBP 2,6,6,8 tetramethyl 4 oxz 3 oxonon 7 yl benzyl phthalate ALB C8 alkyl benzene Table 1 shows the results obtained using one manufacturer s clay coated receiver sheets, the solvent in each case being a blend of the phthalate with eitherALB in the proportions by weight 7 3 or with kerosene in the proportions by weight 8 2. TABLE IEMI9.1 tb SEP Time SEP Hours tb SEP Solvent SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 6 SEP 7 SEP 22.5 SEP 25.5 tb 1 SEP DBP ALB SEP 7 3 SEP 0.616 SEP 0.532 SEP 0.492 tb 2 SEP OBP Sample SEP 1 SEP 0.628 SEP 0.648 SEP 0.577 tb SEP ALB SEP 7 3 tb 3 SEP OBP Sample SEP 2 SEP 0.606 SEP 0.624 SEP 0.544 tb SEP ALB SEP 7 3 tb 4 SEP OBP Sample SEP 3 SEP 0.600 SEP 0.635 SEP 0.566 tb SEP ALB SEP 7 3 tb 5 SEP TBP ALB SEP 7 3 SEP 0.579 SEP 0.602 SEP 0.553 tb 6 SEP OBP Sample SEP 1 tb SEP Kerosene SEP 8 2 SEP 0.621 SEP 0.585 SEP 0.577 SEP 0.571 tb 7 SEP DBP Kerosene SEP l SEP tb SEP 8 2 SEP 0.601 SEP 0.568 SEP 0.519 SEP 0.472 tb Comparison of Solvent 1 with Solvents 2 5, or of Solvent with Solvent 7 shows that the print intensity fades significantly more slowly when the phthalate is an aliphatic benzyl phthalate than when the phthalate is dibutyl phthalate. Table 2 shows the results obtained using a second manufacturer s clay coated receiver sheets. TABLE 2EMI10.1 tb SEP Time SEP Hours tb Solvent SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 5.5 SEP 7 SEP 22 SEP 25.5 SEP 29.5 SEP 31.5 tb 8 SEP DBP SEP 0.720 SEP 0.545 SEP 0.436 SEP 0.388 tb 9 SEP 3BP SEP 0.671 SEP 0.621 SEP 0.565 SEP 0.489 SEP tb 10 SEP DBP Kero SEP 0.612 SEP 0.456 SEP 0.426 SEP 0.271 SEP 0.195 SEP tb SEP sene SEP 8 2 tb 11 SEP OBP Kero SEP 0.652 SEP 0.565 SEP 0.532 SEP 0.466 SEP SEP 0.391 SEP tb SEP sene SEP 8. 2 SEP tb The superiority of the alkyl benzyl phthalates over dibutyl phthalate is shown by a ccmparison of Solvent 9 with Solvent 8 and of Solvent 11 with Solvent 10. Table 3 shows the results obtained using the second manu facturer s clay coated receiver sheets, the solvent being in each case a blend of the phthalate with ALB in the proportions by weight 7.3. TABI.E 3EMI10.2 tb SEP Time SEP Hours tb Phthalate SEP 0 SEP 6.5 SEP 23 SEP 30 tb DBP SEP 0.776 SEP 0.582 SEP SEP 0.360 SEP 0.313 SEP tb DO SEP 0.630 SEP 0.3800.350 SEP tb OBP SEP Sample SEP 1 SEP 0.689 SEP 0.628 SEP 0.417 SEP 0.401 SEP tb CBP SEP SarrFle SEP 2 SEP 0.656 SEP 0.626 SEP 0.507 SEP 0.468 tb CEP SEP Sample SEP 3 SEP 0.658 SEP 0.611 SEP 0.473 SEP 0.416 tb TBP SEP 0.713 SEP 0.629 SEP 0.434 SEP 0.384 tb Colour intensities are again shown to fade more slowly when the solvent comprises an aliphatic benzyl phthalate than when the solvent RTI ID 10.15 comprises a dialkyl phthalate.