# Pharmaceutical composition containing aminopteridines or aminopyrimido 4,5 d pyrimidines.

## Abstract
A sterile, non irritant, non toxic pharmaceutical com position adapted for topical administration to the eye is described which contains a compound of formula I

## Claims
WHAT WE CLAIM IS 1. A sterile, non irritant, non toxic composition adapted for topical administration to the eye fro the treatment of glaucoma which composition contains a compound of formula I EMI38.1 wherein X Y is CR N or N CR where at least two ofR, R1, R2 and R3 are amino groups and the other groups ofR, R1, R2 and R3 are hydrogen atom, lower alkyl, aryl, carboxamido or lower alkoxycarbonyl groups except that when R1, R2 and R3 are all amino and X Y is CR N,R is not phenyl together with a carrier therefor. 2. A composition as claimed in claim 1 which contains a compound of the formula III EMI38.2 wherein R7 is a phenyl group optionally substituted by a fluorine, chlorine or bromine atom or by a lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, amino, nitro, hydroxyl or sulphated hydroxyl group and R8 is a hydrogen atom, a lower alkyl, an aryl, al lower alkoxycarbonyl or carboxamido group together with a carrier therefor. 3. A composition as claimed in claim 1 which contains a compound of formula IV EMI39.1 wherein R9 is a hydrogen atom, an amino group, a lower alkyl group or an aryl group and R10 is a hydrogen atom, a lower alkyl group, a carboxamido group or a phenyl group optionally substituted by a fluorine, chlorine or bromine atom or by a lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, amino, nitro, hydroxyl or sulphated hydroxyl group except that where R9 is an amino group, R10 is not a phenyl group together with a carrier therefor. 4. A composition as claimed in claim 1 which contains a compound of formula V EMI39.2 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein at least two of R12 R13 and R14 are amino groups and the other group is a hydrogen atom or a phenyl group optionally substituted by a fluorine, chlorine or bromine atom or by a lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, amino, nitro, hydroxyl or sulphated hydroxyl group and H11 is a hydrogen atom or a phenyl group optionally substituted by a fluorine, chlorine or bromine atom or by a lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, amino, nitro, hydroxyl or sulphated hydroxyl group together with a carrier therefor. 5. A composition as claimed in claim 1 which contains one of a 2 phenyl 4 , 7 diamino 6 carboxamido pteridine b the ethyl ester of 2 phenyl 4,7 diamino pteridine 6 carboxylic acid. c 2,4,7 triamino 6 2 bromophenyl pteridine d 2,4 ,7 triamino 6 4 hydroxyphenyl pteridine e the hemi sulphate ester of 2,4,7 triamino 6 4 hydroxyphenyl pteridine f 2, 4 diamino 6, 7 dimethyl pteridine g 2,4,7 triamino 5 phenyl pyrimido 4,5 d pyrimidine h 2,4,7 triamino 5 phenyl pyrimido 4,5 d pyrimidinium phosphate together with a carrier therefor. 6. A composition as claimed in any of claims 1 to 5 in the form of an aqueous suspension which also contains a suspending agent for the compound. 7. A composition as claimed in any of claims 1 to 5 in the form of an aqueous solution which also contains a solubilising agent for the compound. 8. A composition as claimed in any of claims 1 to 7 which is substantially isotonic. 9. A composition as claimed in any of claims 1 to 8 which contains an ophthalmically acceptable preservative. 10. A composition as claimed in any of claims 1 to 9 which contains from 0.07 to 5.0 of the compound. 11. A composition as claimed in claim 7 in which the suspending agent is dyphylline.

## Description
PHARMACEUTICAL COIWOS ITIONS The present invention relates to pharmaceutical compositions adapted for topical administration to the eye and to their preparation and use. ore specifically this invention relates to anti glaucoma ophthalmic compositions containing tetraazabicyclic compounds and to the preparation and use of such compositions. Glaucoma is a degenerative disease of the eye manifest inter alia by an elevated intra ocular pressure in the eye. Ocular hypertension, that is the condition of elevated intra ocular pressure, is believed by many authorities to represent an early phase in the onset of glaucoma. One method of treatment of ocular hypertension and glaucoma is to administer to the subject a pharmacologically active compound capable of reducing the intra ocular pressure. A number of compounds presently employed to treat ocular hypertension and glaucoma are not entirely satisfactory due at least in part to side effects such as pupil contraction and the like. Clearly it would be desirable to provide an agent which could be applied topically to treat ocular hypertension and glaucoma without an unacceptable level of such side effects.It has now been found that the topical administration of tetraazabicyclic compounds to the eye can reduce the intra ocular pressure therein without producing an unacceptable level of side effects such as pupil constriction. It has now been found that the topical administration of other tetraazabicyclic compounds to the eye results in a lowering of intra ocular pressure and that this occurs without systemic side effects such as diuresis and without local side effects such as pupil constriction. Accordingly the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition adapted for administration to the eye which composition contains a compound of the formula I EMI2.1 wherein X Y is CR N or N CR where at least two ofR, R1, R2 and R3 are amino groups and the other groups of R, R1, R2 and R3 are hydrogen atom, lower alkyl, aryl, carboxamido or lower alkoxycarbonyl groups except that when R1, R2 and R3 are all amino and X Y is CR N,R is not phenyl together with a carrier therefor. Compounds of the formula I may be prepared in known manner, for example as in the following series of papers, a Spickett and Timmis, J. Chem. Soc. 1954, 2887 95 b Pachter and Nemeth, J. Org. Chem. 1963, 28 1187 91 c Pachter, ibid 1963, 28 1191 96 d Pachter and Nemeth, ibid 1963 28 1203 06 e Weinstock et al, J. Med. Chem. 1968, 11 542 48 f Weinstock et al, ibid, 1968, 11 549 56 g Weinstock et al, ibid 1968, 11 557 60 h Weinstock and Dunoff, ibid 1968, 11 565 68 i Weinstock et al, ibid 1963, 11 618 20 j Mallette et al, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1947, 69 1814. The diuretic properties of such when given orally to rats and dogs is described by Weinstock et al in J. Med Chem. 1963, 11 573 79.However this paper contains no suggestion that such pteridine derivatives may be applied topically to the eye and no suggest ion is made that such pteridine derivatives may be useful in the treatment of glaucoma.The preparation of some further compounds of the formula I is described in Graboyes et al, J. Med Chem. 1963 11 568 73. The diuretic properties of these compounds is described in Weinstock et al in J. Med. Chem. 1963, 11 573 79. This paper contains no suggestion that such compounds may be applied topically to the eye and no suggestion is made that such compounds may be useful in the treatment of glaucoma. Compositions suitable for topical application to the eye containing 2,4,7 triamino 6 phenyl pteridine are described in our co pending British Application 8123222, which is incorporated herein by cross reference. When used herein the term lower means a group of 1, 2 or 3 carbon atoms and most aptly refers to a group containing 1 carbon atom. In compounds of the formula I as hereinbefore defined most aptly R3 is an amino group. In compounds of the formula I as hereinbefore defined most aptly X Y is a CP4 N group where R4 is a hydrogen atom, a lower alkyl, an aryl or a carboxamido group. Thus favoured compositions contain a compound of formula II EMI5.1 wherein either R5 and P.6 are amino groups or one of R5 and R6 is an amino group and the other is a hydrogen atom, a lower alkyl or an aryl group and R4 is a hydrogen atom, a lower alkyl, an aryl or a carboxamido, except that whereR5 and R are both amino groups, R4 is not a phenyl group together with a carrier therefor. Particularly apt compositions contain a compound of formula III EMI5.2 wherein R8 is a hydrogen atom, a lower alkyl, an aryl, a lower alkoxycarbonyl or carboxamido group and R7 is a phenyl group or a phenyl group substituted by a fluorine, chlorine or bromine atom or by a lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, amino, nitro, hydroxyl or sulphated hydroxyl group together with a carrier therefor. Aptly R7 is a phenyl group optionally substituted in the 3 or 4 position. Preferably R7 is a phenyl group. From the foregoing it will be appreciated that highly favoured compounds for use in this invention include 2 phenyl 4 , 7 diamino 6 carboxamido pteridine and the ethyl ester of 2 phenyl 4,7 diamino pteridine 6carboxylic acid. Particularly suitable compositions contain a compound of formula IV EMI6.1 wherein R9 is a hydrogen atom, an amino group, a lower alkyl group or an aryl group and R10 is a hydrogen atom, lower alkyl group, an aryl group or a carboxamido group except that where R9 is an amino group, R is not a phenyl group together with a carrier therefor. Aptly Aptly R9 is an amino group or a methyl group. 9 Preferably R is an amino group. Aptly R10 is a phenyl group optionally substituted by a fluorine, chlorine or bromine atom or by a lower alkyl or in any position by lower alkoxyl, amino, nitro, hydroxyl or sulphated hydroxyl group, except that when R9 is an amino group, R10 is not an unsubstituted phenyl group. Preferably R10 is a phenyl group substituted as hereinbefore described or a methyl group. From the foregoing it will be appreciated that highly preferred compounds for use in this invention include 2,4,7 triamino 6 4 nitrophenyl pteridine, 2,4, triamino 6 4 hydroxyphenyl pteridine, the hemisulphate ester of 2,4,7 triamino 6 4 hydroxyphenyl pteridine and 2,4 diamino 6,7 dimethyl pteridine. The preferred compound for use in this invention is the hemi sulphate ester of 2,4,7 triamino 6 4 hydroxyphenyl pteridine. A second group of suitable compounds are those of formula I in which X Y is N CR namely compounds of formula V or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. EMI8.1 where at least two of R1 , R 3 and R are amino groups and the other group is a hydrogen atom or a phenyl group or a phenyl group optionally substituted by a fluorine, chlorine or bromine atom or by a lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, amino, nitro, hydroxyl or a sulphated hydroxyl group and where H11 is a hydrogen atom, a phenyl group, or a phenyl group optionally substituted by a fluorine, chlorine or bromine atom or by a lower alkyl, lower alkoxyl, amino, nitro, hydroxyl or sulphated hydroxyl group. Preferably R12 and R13 are both amino groups. Preferably R is an amino group, a hydrogen atom or a phenyl group. Preferably R14 is an amino group. Aptly H11 is a hydrogen atom or a phenyl group. Preferably Rll is a phenyl group. From the foregoing it will be appreciated that highly favoured compounds for use in this invention include 2,4,7 triamino 5 phenyl pyrimido 4,5 d pyrimidine. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts of compounds of formula V include those with acids such as hydrochloric, sulphuric, orthophosphoric, acetic, gluconic, glutamic and lactic acids. From the foregoing it will be appreciated that highly favoured compounds for use in this invention include 2,4,7 triamino 5 phenyl pyrimido 4,5 d pyridinium orthophosphate. In order to be suitable for application to the eye the topical composition should be sterile, non toxic and non irritant to the eye. From the foregoing the skilled worker will appreciate that this invention provides a sterile, non irritant, non toxic composition adapted for topical administration to the eye for the treatment of glaucoma which composition comprises a compound of formula I as hereinbefore described together with a carrier therefor. Suitable forms of the composition include aqueous solutions, aqueous suspensions, oily solutions, oily suspensions, ointments, emulsions and sustained release implants. In general it is preferred to use aqueous solutions or aqueous suspensions for compositions of this invention. Such aqueous forms preferably also contain an agent which increases the amount of the compound of formula I in suspension a suspending agent or solution a solubilsing agent as described hereinafter. Most desirably the composition of this invention will be an aqueous solution. Normally and preferably aqueous solutions and suspensions of the invention will contain tonicity adjusting agents, for example sodium chloride, potassium chloride, glycerol, propylene glycol, urea or dextrose to render the solution or suspension isotonic or substantially isotonic with tear fluid, that is to say, to give the compositions a tonicity equivalent to an aqueous solution containing from 0.8 to 1.1 of a sodium chloride and most suitably 0.9 sodium chloride. The use of sodium chloride or other ionic tonicity agents may render some solutions and suspensions unstable. In these cases it is preferred that a non ionic tonicity adjusting agent such as glycerol or propylene glycol is used. Aqueous suspensions of the invention will suitably contain from 0.01 to 5 of the compound, more suitably will contain from 0.05 to 2 5 of the compound and preferably from 0.1 to 1 for example 0.5 terms when used herein are expressed on a wt v basis unles shown otherwise . Aqueous solutions of the invention will contain an amount of the compound which will depend on the solubility of the specific compound used. Normally aqueous solutions may contain from 0.01 to 2 of the compound. It is normally preferred in the treatment of glaucoma to employ an aqueous solution. Favourably the aqueous solutions of this invention will contain a solubilising agent such as polyvinyl pyrrolidone, polyalkylene glycol, non ionic surfactants or a polyacrylic acid which has been lightly cross linked with triallyl sucrose in combination with a non ionic surfactant. An apt solubilising agent is polyvinyl pyrrolidone. Suitable polyvinyl pyrrolidones are those with a number average molecular weight below 40,000, more suitable are those with a number average molecular weight below 5000 and a particularly preferred polyvinyl pyrrolidone is one having a number average molecular weight of 2,500. Such a polyvinyl pyrrolidone is exemplified by Kollidon 12PF trade mark of BASF .Suitably the amount of polyvinyl pyrrolidone present is from 0.5 to 55, preferably is from 15 to 52 and most preferably is from 20 to 50. Alternatively the compounds useful in the present invention may be solubilised by employing a class of agents that neither unduly increases the viscosity of the solution nor unduly increases the surfactant properties of the solution. This class of agents which may be thus employed are water soluble xanthine derivatives. Thus in a more favoured aspect this invention provides a sterile, non irritant, non toxic aqueous solution adapted for topical application to the eye for the treatment of glaucoma which composition comprises a compound of formula I as hereinbefore described and a solubilising xanthine and a carrier therefor. The solubilising xanthine is normally a dimethyl xanthine which optionally may be substituted by a hydrophilic group or less preferably a methyl group.Most aptly the xanthine is a 1,3 dimethyl xanthine unsubstituted or substituted at the 7 position by a methyl group or more aptly substituted at the 7 position by a hydrophilic group such as a 2 hydroxypropyl group thereby proxyphylline , a 2,3 dihydroxypropyl group thereby dyphylline , a 2 hydroxyethyl group thereby etophylline , a carboxymethyl group thereby theophyllinylacetic acid , an N,N diethylaminoethyl group thereby etamiphylline or the like. Less favourably the xanthine is a 3,7 dimethylxanthine unsubstituted or substituted at the 1 position for example pentoxyphylline. Particularly apt solubilising xanthines are caffeine, proxyphylline and dyphylline. These agents may be present in any convenient solubilising amount, for example from 0.1 to 10 or up to the solubility limit , more usually from 1 to 8 . Preferably the solution will contain from 2 to 7.5 of proxyphylline or dyphylline. The xanthine solubilising agent may be present as the sole solubilising agent or less aptly other solubilising agents such as those hereinbefore described may also be included. The use of solubilising agents is particularly advantageous for the preparation of solutions of the sparingly soluble compounds It is desirable to provide aqueous solutions that are generally at a pH of not less than 4.5, more aptly not less than 6 and preferably at a pH of approximate neutrality that is pH 7. The pX of such solutions should also not in general be greater than 8.5 and preferably not greater than pH 8. It has been found that such solutions may be prepared by using solubilising agents such as a xanthine. If the solubilising agent is a xanthine a buffering agent may be present to maintain the pH from 5.0 to 8.0 and preferably 6.0 to 7.5 for example pH 7. Suitable buffering agents include mixtures of potassium dihydrogen phosphate and disodium hydrogen phosphate and other systems known to provide solutions having such pH values. In certain circumstances it may be preferred to use a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of a compound of formula I . Such salts include those with hydrochloric, sulphuric, orthophosphoric, acetic, gluconic, glutamic and lactic acids. In general these salts are prepared in situ and no not exist as true salts outside the formulation that is the solutions of compounds of formula I may be rendered slightly acidic using such acids so that a salt is notionally formed. Normally and preferably aqeuous solutions of the invention will contain an ophthalmically acceptable preservative to maintain the sterility of the solutions during use. It is known in the art that certain preservatives are affected by the presence of surface active agents, viscosity increasing agents and the like and naturally such agents will be selected to be mutually compatible in the conventional manner. Particularly apt ophthalmically acceptable preservatives are antibacterially effective quaternary ammonium compounds such as benzalkonium salts, for example the chloride, benzethonium chloride, cetyl pyrridinium chloride and the like. The preferred quaternary ammonium compound is benzalkonium chloride.Suitably the amount of quaternary ammonium compound present is from 0.005 to 0.04, more suitably is from 0.0075 to 0.025 and preferably from 0.01 to 0.02 of the composition. In aqueous suspensions of compounds of formula I the compound will be dispersed evenly throughout. The compound will be in finely divided form. In this state of subdivision of the compound 99 of the particles are less than 30 microns in diameter and 90 are less than 10 microns in diameter. Most aptly the particles will have diameters in the range of 1 to 5 microns. Generally the compositions of this invention will contain a suspending agent for the finely divided compound of formula I . Suitable suspending agents include cellulosic or polysaccharide derivatives such as hydroxyethyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl cellulose, carboxymethyl cellulose or xanthan gum or water soluble polymers such as polyvinyl alcohol or polyvinyl pyrrolidone or a polyacrylic acid lightly cross linked with triallyl sucrose . A most favoured suspending agent is a polyvinyl pyrrolidone as hereinbefore described. Suitably the suspension will contain from 5 to 55 of the polymer and preferably 20 to 50 of the polymer. A second favoured suspending agent is a hydroxyethyl cellulose. Suitable hydroxyethyl celluloses are available as the Natrosols trade mark of Hercules Inc. and theCellosizes trade mark of Union Carbide Corp. . A 2 solution of suitable polymers at 250C has a viscosity of from 4500 to 6000 cps when measured on a Brookfield apparatus. A preferred hydroxyethyl cellulose is available as Natrosol 250M. Suitably the suspension will contain from 0.1 to 10 of the cellulose, more suitably 0.25 to 2.5 of the cellulose and preferably 0.5 to 1.0us of the cellulose. Generally the aqueous suspension of the present invention will contain a surface active agent to encourage wetting of the surface of the particles of the finely divided compound by water, thus aiding even dispersion throughout the suspension. Favoured surface active agents are polyoxyethylated sorbitan fatty acid esters commonly called Tweens or polyoxypropylenepolyoxyethylene diol block copolymers commonly calledPluronics . Particularly preferred is a polyoxypropylenepolyoxyethylene diol block copolymer of molecular weight 2900, having 40 of ethylene oxide units in the polymer, known as Pluronic L64. Suitably the amount of surface active agent present is from 0.01 to 5 and preferably from 0.02 to 0.2 . Generally the aqueous suspensions will contain an ophthalmically acceptable preservative or bacterial agent. Such agents are subject to the same considerations of compatibility as described for aqueous solutions above.Suitable bacterial agents include phenylethanol, phenoxyethanol, chlorbutanol or thiomersal. A particularly preferred preservative is a combination of phenylethanol in an amount from 0.25 to 0.75 and thiomersal in an amount from 0.005 to 0.02 . A preferred combination is 0.5 phenylethanol with 0.01 thiomersal. The pH values of the aqueous suspension will be adjusted in a similar manner to that described hereinbefore with respect to aqueous solutions. Oily suspensions of compounds of formula I include suspensions in solvents such as castor oil and such compositions will suitably contain from 0.01 to 5 of finely divided compound, more favourably 0.02 to 0.75 and most preferably 0.05 to 0.5 of the compound. Ointments in accordance with the invention will comprise ointment bases suitable for topical application to the eye and contain suitably from 0.01 to 5 of the finely divided compound of formula I . Ocular implants may comprise a compound of formula I in a finely divided form in suitable soluble or insoluble material. Soluble forms for example where the finely divided compound is suspended in a polyvinyl alcohol film, dissolve and so do not need to be removed later, whereas the insoluble forms are removed from the eye after the medicament has diffused from the form.Suitably the ocular implant will c ontain from 0.01 to 5 of finely divided compound of formula I . The present invention also provides a method for reducing the intra ocular pressure in the eye which comprises topically administering a compound of formula I to the surface of the eye in an amount effective to reduce the intra ocular pressure therein. The compound of formula I will be present in a composition as hereindescribed. Further the present invention provides a unit dose of a liquid topical composition of the invention having a volume from 0.01 to 0.08ml i.e. a drop of 10 to 80 microlitres and containing from 1 microgramme to 1.6mg of a compound of formula I and more usually 0.02 to 0.05ml and containing 2 microgrammes to lmg. of the compound. The compositions of this invention are most aptly provided in a multidose container from which drops may be dispensed into the eye. Such containers are well known in the art for dispensing of liquid drops into the eye and such conventional containers may be employed.Most aptly such containers are adapted to hold 1 to 20mls, more usually 2 to 12 mls and preferably 3 to l0mls. A favoured aspect of the present invention therefore comprises a container adapted to deliver drops of an aqueous solution or an aqueous suspension of this invention as hereinbefore described. A preferred container comprises a glass bottle having a screw cap. This screw cap being replaced by a screw cap carrying a drop forming portion when in use. A second preferred container comprises a plastic bottle, for example of a low density polyethylene, having an integral dispensing tip covered by a screw cap. Such preferred containers are adapted to hold 1 to 20mls of the composition and preferably 3 to 10mls of the composition, for example 5, 7.5 or 10mls. A third preferred type of container adapted to deliver drops holding from 1 to 2.5mls of composition is made from polypropylene or other heat stable material whereby the whole package may be filled and sealed prior to sterilisation by autoclaving. The compositions of the present invention may be prepared by conventional means of mixing and blending. Sterile compositions may be conveniently prepared by a sterilising the finely divided compound of formula I by dry heat over a period of time at elevated temperature, forexampleby heating to 1600 for 1 hour, allowing the powder to cool and storing aseptically, b sterilising the liquid components of the composition by either filtration through a 0.22 micron cellulose ester membrane or subjecting the solution to heat and pressure such as autoclaving at 116 0C for 30 minutes under 10 psi pressure. The two sterile components are combined in the desired proportions under aseptic conditions and filled into sterile containers.The containers for delivering drops of sterile compositions of the invention are conventionally pre sterilised and filled under aseptic conditions with the sterile composition using conventional metering pumps capable of delivering from 1 to 20mls each filling cycle. Alternatively for those compositions which are in the form of an aqueous solution, the solution may be formed by dissolving its components in distilled water and then sterilising the solution either by filtration through a 0.22 micron filter or by subjecting it to heat, for example by autoclaving at 116 C for 30 minutes at 10 psi pressure.The sterile solution may be aseptically filled into presterilised eye dropper bottles in a conventional manner. The compositions of this invention are non irritant, that is they do not cause unacceptable irritation to the eye when applied topically. Most aptly the compositions are bland upon application. The following Examples illustrate this invention Example 1.2,4,7 Triamino 6 2 bromophenyl pteridine suspension. A suspension of 2,4,7 triamino 6 2 bromophenyl pteridine was prepared as follows 2,4,7 Triamino 6 2 bromophenyl pteridine 0.5 w v Polyvinyl pyrrolidone molecular weight 50.07 w v 2,500 Distilled water to 100.0 ml. The polyvinyl pyrrolidone was Kollidon PF12. The polyvinyl pyrrolidone was dissolved in water 40ml and the 2,4,7 triamino 6 2 bromophenyl pteridine suspended in this solution with stirring. The volume of the suspension was adjusted to 100ml with distilled water with stirring. The effect of this suspension on the ocular tension in the eyes of rabbits New Zealand White Male was tested as follows. 50 microlitres of the suspension was applied topically to both treated and untreated eyes was measured at 1, 2, 4 and 5 hours after the application of the suspension. The mean maximum fall in ocular tension in the treated eye of four rabbits was 3.4 mmHg approximately at 1 hour, in the untreated eye the mean maximum fall was 1.6 mmKg approximately at 1 hour. The pupil diameter of both treated and untreated eye remained unchanged over the test period.Example 2. 2,4, 7 Triamino 5 phenylpyrimido 4 , 5 d pyrimidine solution A solution of 2,4,7 triamino 5 phenylpyrimido 4,5 d pyrimidine was formulated as follows 2,4,7 Triamino 5 phenylpyrimido 4,5 d pyrimidine 0.5 w v Polyvinyl Pyrrolidone molecular weight 2,500 50.0 w vDistilled water to 100.0 ml. The polyvinyl pyrrolidone was Kollidon PF12. The polyvinyl pyrrolidone was dissolved in water 40ml and the 2,4,7 triamino 5 phenylpyrimido 4,5 d pyrimidine was added to this solution and stirred until dissolved. The volume of the solution was adjusted to 100 ml with distilled water. The effect of this solution on the ocular tension in the eyes of rabbits New Zealand White Male was tested as described in Example 1. The mean maximum fall in ocular tension in the treated eyes was 3.1 mmHg approximately occuring approximately 2 hours after instillation, the untreated eyes showed a mean maximum fall of 1.6 mmEg approximately also occurring approximately 2 hours after instillation. The pupil diameter of both treated and untreated eye remained unchanged over the test period.Example 3 2, 4 Diamino 6 . 7 dimethylpteridine suspension. A suspension of 2,4 diamino 6,7 dimethylpteridine was prepared as follows 2,4 Diamino 6,7 dimethylpteridine 0.5 w v Polyvinyl pyrrolidone Mol. wt, 2,500 50.0 w vDistilled water to 100.0 ml. The polyvinyl pyrrolidone was Kollidon TF12 The polyvinyl pyrrolidone was dissolved in water 40ml and the 2,4 diamino 6,7 dimethylpteridine suspended in this solution with stirring. The volume of the suspension was adjusted to 100ml with distilled water with stirring. The effect of this suspension on the ocular tension in the eyes of rabbits New Zealand White Male was tested as described in Example 1. The mean maximum pressure fall in ocular tension in the treated eye for four rabbits was 1.6mmHg. In the untreated eye no significant fall in ocular tension was shown. The pupil diameter of both treated and untreated eyes remained unchanged over the test period.Example 4.2 Phenyl 4,7 diamino 6 carmboxamido pteridine A solution of 2 phenyl 4,7 diamino 6 carboxamido pteridine was prepared as follows 2 Phenyl 4,7 diamino 6 carboxamido pteridine 0.5 w v Polyvinyl pyrrolidone Mol. Wt. 2,500 50.or w vDistilled water to 100.0 ml. The polyvinyl pyrrolidone was Kollidon PF12 The polyvinyl pyrrolidone was dissolved in water 40ml and the 2 phenyl 4,7 diamino 6 carboxamidopteridine was added and stirred until dissolved. The volume of the solution was adjsuted to 100ml with distilled water. The effect of this solution on the ocular tension in the eyes of rabbits New Zealand Khite Male was tested as described in Example 1. The mean maximum fall in ocular tension in the treated eye was 3.6 mmEg. The untreated eyes showed a mean maximum fall of 1.6 mmHg. The pupil diameter of both treated and untreated eyes remained unchanged over the test period.Example 5 2 Phenyl 4,7 diamino 6 ethoxycarbonyl pteridine suspension.2 Phenyl 4,7 diamino 6 ethoxycarbonyl pteridine 0.50 w v Polyvinyl pyrrolidone Mol. wt. 2,500 50.005 w vDistilled water to 100.0 ml. The polyvinyl pyrrolidone was Kollidon PF12 Registered Trade Mark of BASF . The suspension was prepared in a similar manner to that of Example 1. The effect of this solution on the ocular tension in the eyes of rabbits New Zealand White Male was tested as described in Example 1. The mean maximum fall in ocular tension in the treated eyes was 0.9 mmHg.The untreated eyes showed no corresponding fall in ocular tension. The pupil diameter of both treated and untreated eyes remained unchanged over the test period.Example 6.2,4,7 Triamino 5 phenylpyrimido 4,5 d pyrimidinium orthophosphate Solution 2,4,7 Triamino 5 phenylpyrimido 4,5 d pyrimidinium orthophosphate 0.5 w vPolyvinyl pyrrolidone Mol. wt. 2,500 50.0 O w vDistilled water to 100.00 ml. A solution of 2,4,7 triamino 5 phenylpyrimido 4,5 d pyrimidinium phosphate was prepared in a similar manner to Example 2. The effect of this solution on the ocular tension in the eyes of rabbits New Zealand White Male was tested as described in Example 1. The mean maximum fall in ocular tension in the treated eyes was 2.6 mmllg. The untreated eyes showed no fall in ocular tension. The pupil diameter of both treated and untreated eyes remained unchanged over the test period.Example 7 2, 4, 7 Triamino 6 4 hydroxyphenyl pteridine suspension. A suspension of 2,4,7 triamino 6 4 hydroxyphenyl pteridine is prepared as follows 2,4,7 Triamino 6 4 hydroxyphenyl pteridine 0.5 Polyvinyl pyrrolidone Mol. wt. 2,500 50.0 Propylene glycol 2.0 Phenyl ethanol 0.5 Sodium hydroxide solution to adjust pH to 7 as requiredDistilled water to 100 ml. The finely divided 2,4,7 triamino 6 4 hydroxyphenyl pteridine powder is heated at 1600C for 1 hour, sufficient for dry heat sterilisation, allowed to cool and stored under aseptic conditions. The polyvinyl pyrrolidone, propylene glycol and phenyl ethanol are dissolved in distilled water 40ml .The pH of this solution is adjusted to pE 7 with sodium hydroxide solution and the volume finally adjusted to 100ml by addition of further distilled water. This solution is. then sterilised by autoclaving at 116 0C for 30 minutes and then allowed to cool. The remaining procedures are carried out in aseptic conditions under a laminar flow hood. The sterile powder is triturated in a pestle and mortar with a portion of the sterile solution. This suspension is quantitatively added back to the bulk of the sterile solution and the whole mixed thoroughly. The suspension is then aseptically filled into sterile amber glass bottles to provide a sterile suspension suitable for multidose application using an eye dropper. Example 8 2,4,7 Triamino 6 4 nitrophenyl pteridine hydrochloride suspension. A suspension of 2,4,7 triamino 6 4 nitrophenyl pteridine hydrochloride is formulated as follows 2,4,7 Triamino 6 4 nitrophenyl pteridine HCl 0.5 Polyvinyl pyrrolidone 50.0 Glycerol 2.5 Phenyl ethanol 0.5 Sodium hydroxide solution to adjust pH to 7Distilled water to 100ml. The suspension is prepared and packaged using the method described in Example 7.Example 9. 2,4 ,7 Triamino 6 4 hydroxyphenyl pteridine hemi sulphate ester suspension. A suspension of 2,4,7 triamino 6 4 hydroxyphenyl pteridine hemi sulphate ester is prepared as follows 2,4,7 Triamino 6 4 hydroxyphenyl pteridine hemi sulphate ester 0.1 Sodium dihydrogen phosphate 0.16 Disodium hydrogen phosphate 0.76 Glycerol 1.8 Benzalkonium chloride 0.01 Distilled water to adjust the volume to 100 The sterile, preserved, buffered suspension is prepared in a similar manner to Example 6 by bringing together the presterilised solid and liquid components into an intimate mixture. The suspension may be packaged in a similar manner to Example 7.Example 10 2 ,4,7 Triamino 6 4 hydroxyphenyl pteridine Solution. A solution of 2,4,7 triamino 6 4 hydroxyphenyl pteridine is prepared from 2,4,7 Triamino 6 4 hydroxyphenyl pteridine 0.05 Dyphylline 6.0 Benzalkonium chloride 0.01 Lactic acid solution, 10 to adjust the pH to 6Distilled water to adjust the volume to 100 ml. The dyphylline and benzalkonium chloride are dissolved in distilled water 80ml . The 2,4,7 triamino 6 4 hydroxyphenyl pteridine is added to this solution and the mixture stirred and warmed gently until the pteridine has dissolved. The solution is allowed to cool and the pH value of the solution adjusted to 6 by addition of 10 lactic acid solution. The final volume of this solution is adjusted to 100 ml by the addition of distilled water. The resultant solution is a clear liquid which is substantially isotonic with tear fluid. This solution may be sterilised by filtration through a 0.22 micron cellulose ester membrane filter or by autoclaving at 116 0C for 30 minutes. The sterile solution may then be filled into sterile eye dropper bottles under aseptic conditions.Example 11 2,4,7 Triamino 6 4 methylphenyl pteridine Solution. A solution of 2,4,7 triamino 6 4 methylphenyl pteridine was prepared from the following 2,4,7 Triamino 6 4 methylphenyl pteridine 0.02 Dyphylline 6.0 Potassium dihydrogen phosphate 0.36 Disodium hydrogen phosphate 2H20 0.70 Benzalkonium chloride 0.01 Distilled water to adjust the volume to 100ml. The dyphylline, potassium dihydrogen phosphate, sodium hydrogen phosphate and benzalkonium chloride are dissolved in water 80ml . The 2,4,7 triamino 6 4 methylphenyl pteridine is added to the solution and the mixture warmed to 50 0C with stirring to facilitate the dissolution of the pteridine. On cooling the volume of the solution is adjusted to 100ml by addition of distilled water. The final solution is a clear liquid buffered at pH 7 and has a tonicity which is substantially the same as tear fluid. This solution may be sterilised and packaged as described in Example 10.Example 12 2 ,4,7 Triamino 6 4 hydroxyphenyl pteridine Solution A solution of 2,4,7 triamino 6 4 hydroxyphenyl pteridine is prepared from the following 2,4,7 Triamino 6 4 hydroxyphenyl pteridine 0.06 Proxyphyll ine 6.0 7 Potassium dihydrogen phosphate 0.36g, Disodium hydrogen phosphate 0,705 Benzalkonium chloride 0.01 Distilled water to adjust the volume to 100 ml. The solution is prepared in the manner described in Example 11. The solution may be sterilised by the method described in Example 10. Demonstration of Effectiveness The effect of aqueous solutions and aqueous suspensions of the tetraaza bicyclo compounds hereinbefore described on the ocular tension in the eyes of rabbits New Zealand White Male was tested as follows. 50Microlitres of the tetraaza bicyclo compound composition was topically applied to one eye of the rabbit. The ocular tension of this eye was measured at 1, 2, 4 and 5 hours after the application of the composition. From the results obtained a value for the maximum mean fall in intra ocular pressure from the group of rabbits used in each test was obtained. Compound Exirm 3 Mean Fall mmHg 2,4 ,7 triamino 6 2 bromo phenyl pteridine 3.5 0.5 suspension in 50 polyvinyl pyrrolidone 2,4 ,7 triamino 6 4 hydroxyphenyl pteridine 1.4 0.5 suspension in 50 polyvinyl pyrrolidone 2,4,7 triamino 6 4 hydroxyphenyl pteridine, 5.6 hemi sulphate ester 0.1 suspension in 50 polyvinyl pyrrolidone Compound Maximum Mean Fall Kg 2,4, 7 triamino 6 4 nitrophenyl pteridine, 3.4 hydrochloride 0.5 suspension in 50 polyvinyl pyrrolidone 2,4, 7 triamino 6 4 methylphenyl pteridine 3.5 0.025 solution in 6 dyphylline 2,4 diamino 6,7 dimethyl pteridine 1.6 0.5 suspension in 50 polyvinyl pyrrolidone 2 phenyl 4,7 diamino 6 carboxamido pteridine 3.6 0.5 solution in 50 polyvinyl pyrrolidone 2 phenyl 4,7 diamino 6 ethoxycarbonyl pteridine 0.9 0.5 suspension in 50 polyvinyl pyrrolidone 2,4,7 Triamino 5 phenylpyrimido 4,5 d pyrimidine 3.2 0.5 solution in 50 polyvinyl pyrrolidone 2,4,7 Triamino 5 phenylpyrimido 4,5 d 2.6 pyrimidinium phosphate 0.5 , solution in 50 polyvinyl pyrrolidone Compound Maaxmnm Mean Fall mmHg 2,4,7 Triamino 6 4 hydroxyphenyl pteridine 1.4 0.05 solution in 6 dyphylline A comparative study of a 0.02 , aqueous suspension of 2,4,7 triamino 6 4 methylphenyl pteridine containing 0.8 hydroxyethyl cellulose as suspending agent with a 0.02 aqueous solution of the same compound containing 6.0 dyphylline as solubilising agent using the method described above showed the solution caused a significant lowering of intra ocular pressure for a longer duration than did the suspension.