# Process for producing zeolites.

## Abstract
A process for making ZSM 5 type zeolites and other tectosilicates, in which a SiO₂ sol is used as a source of silicon rather than the conventional sodium silicate solution or solid silicas, resulting in a less viscous crystallizing medium and a higher production rate for ZSM 5 type catalysts. The mole ratio H₂O SiO₂ in the reaction mixture is between 5 and 20.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method of synthesising a zeolite having a constraint index of 1 to 12 from an aqueous reaction mixture containing a source of silica together with sources of organic cations, alkali metal cations and or alumina characterised in that the source of silica is a 20 to 40 wto solids silica sol and that the mole ratio H20 SiO2 in the reaction mixture is between 5 and 20. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the H20 SiO2 mole ratio is between 10 and 15. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein at least about a 30 wt. solution of SiO2 sol is used as the source of six2. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the ZSM 5 zeolite type catalysts are selected from ZSM 5, ZSM 111 ZSM 12,ZSM 35 and ZSM 38. 5 The method of claim 4 wherein the zeolite catalyst prepared is ZSM 5. 6. The method of claim 4 wherein the catalysts may be base exchanged, contain ammonium ions, hydrogen or metal cations selected from Group II or Group VIII of the PeriodicTable.

## Description
IMPROVED ZSM 5 PRODUCTION This invention is directed to crystalline aluminosilicate zeolites and to an improved method of their synthesis. A more particular aspect iS directed to a modification of the normal process of producing ZSM 5 aluminosilicates and other tectosilicates wherein the source of silicon is obtained from a silicon dioxide sol rather than from the conventional sodium silicate solution or from solid silicas. Zeolites and in particular aluminosilicate zeolites and other tectosilicates are well known in the art. Since they have proven highly useful for a variety of purposes, they have been the subject of intensive investigation to improve the methods of producing them. ZS 5 type alumina silicates include ZSM 5 andZSM ll which are respectively described in U.S. Patent No 5. 3,702,886 and 3,709,979. Also, U.S. Patent Nos. 4,088,605 and 4,148,718 as well are fully incorporated herein as disclosing conventional means of synthesizing ZSM 5 type zeolites. In accordance with the invention there is provided a process for making ZSM 5 type zeolites in which a SiO2 sol is used as a source of SiO2 rather than the conventional sodium silicate solution or silica solids. The result is a less viscous crystallizing medium even when component concentrations are higher and an enhanced crystallization rate. The combination of low viscosity, high concentrations, and substantial reactive surface areas result in inter alia significantly higher production rates for the zeolites. The zeolites which may achieve enhanced production by the method disclosed herein are as stated hereinabove ZSM 5 type zeolites. They have proven useful in cracking and hydrocracking processes and are outstandingly useful in other petroleum refining processes utilizing the unique catalytic characteristics of this family of zeolites.The latter processes include isomerization of normal paraffins and naphthenes, polymerization of compounds containing an olefinic or acetylenic carbon to carbon linkage such as isobutylene and butene l, reforming alkylation, isomerization of polyalkyl substituted aromatics, e.g., ortho xylene, aromatics alkylation, such as reaction of benzene or toluene with ethylene, disproportionation of aromatics such as toluene to provide a mixture of benzene, xylenes and higher methylbenzenes, as well as conversion of polar compounds such as methanol to hydrocarbon products. They have exceptional high selectivity and under the conditions of hydrocarbon conversion provide a high percentage of desired products relative to total products compared with known zeolite hydrocarbon conversion.Although many materials are used as silica sources and are disclosed in the various patents on ZSM 5 disclosed hereinabove and others, commercial manufacture, however, has been restricted to a low molecular weight silicate source known as Q brand. The stiff gels which result therefrom often restrict productivity to reaction mixtures of less than 10 solids. Since zeolite crystallization requires a structural rearrangement of silica species, it was surprising to find enhanced rates of crystallization and higher solids content when a polymeric silica source silica sol was used in the crystallization process. Furthermore, the physical properties of the gels as a result of the process embodied herein are such as to permit crystallization at even 20 25 solids content. An important characteristic of the crystal structure of this class of zeolites is that it provides constrained access to, and egress from, the intra crystalline free space by virtue of having a pore dimension greater than about 5 Angstroms and pore windows of about a size such as would be provided by l0 membered rings of oxygen atoms. It is to be understood, of course, that these rings are those formed by the regular disposition of the tetrahedra making up the anionic framework of the crystalline aluminosilicate, the oxygen atoms themselves being bonded to the silicon or aluminum atoms at the centers of the tetrahedra.Briefly, the preferred type of zeolite useful in this invention possess, in combination a silica to alumina ratio of at least about 12 and a structure providing constrained access to the crystalline free space. The silica to alumina ratio referred to may be determined by conventional analysis. The type zeolites manufactured in accordance with the process disclosed herein freely sorb normal hexane and have a pore dimension greater than about 5 Angstroms. In addition, the structure provides constrained access to larger molecules. It is sometimes possible to judge from a known crystal structure whether such constrained access exists. Rather than attempt to judge from crystal structure whether or not a catalyst possesses the necessary constrained access, a simple determination of the Wconstraint index may be made by passing continuously a mixture of an equal weight of normal hexane and 3thylpentane over a small sample, approximately 1 gram or less, of zeolite at atmospheric pressure according to the following procedure.A sample of the catalyst, in the form of pellets or extrudate, is crushed to a particle size about that of coarse sand and mounted in a glass tube. Prior to testing, the catalyst is treated with a stream of air at 1000 F for at least 15 minutes. The catalyst is then flushed with helium and the Hemperature adjusted between 550 and 950 F to give an overall conversion between 10 and 60 . The mixture of hycrocarbons is passed at 1 liquid hourly space velocity LHSV , that is, 1 volume of liquid hydrocarbon per volume of catalyst per hour over the catalyst with a helium dilution to give a helium to total hydrocarbon mole ratio of 4 1.After 20 minutes on stream, a sample of the effluent is taken and analyzed, most conveniently by gas chromatography, to determine the fraction remaining unchanged for each of the two hydrocarbons. The constraint index is then calculated as follows Constraint Index logl0 fraction of n hexane remaining log10 fraction of 3 rnethylpentane remaining The constraint index approximates the ratio of the cracking rate constants for the two hydrocarbons. Zeolites which can be manufactured to exhibit the.above described characteristics in an enhanced manner include ZSM 5, ZSM ll, ZSM 12, ZSM 35 and ZSM 38. It is recognized that this list is not all inclusive, but merely includes some of the eminently suitable zeolites which may be manufactured in an improved manner according to the enhanced process disclosed herein.These zeolites may also be base exchanged, contain ammonium ions, hydrogen or be impregnated to contain a cation component. Useful metal cations include Co, Co Mo, Zn, zn Pd, Ni, Ni Mo, Pd or generally speaking any metal from Grouts II or VIlT of the Periodic Table. Generally speaking, the improved process of this invention incorporates the use of a 30 silica sol in place of the standard commercial Q brand sodium silicate but sols typically ranging from 20 to 40 silica may equally well be used. The reaction conditions and other process parameters are conventional. The critical item wherein the improved results of this process are achieved is in the use of a silica sol as a source of the silicon rather than the conventional sodium silicate. Mole ratios of H2O SiO2 of 20 to 50 or above are conventional in current practice. Lower ratios of less than 20 to as low as about 5 are practical with the silica sols as embodied in the present invention. The following examples disclosed below are intended merely to be exemplary and not as limitations on the scope of this invention. EXAMPLE 1 This example demonstrates crystallization of ZSM 5 from a reaction mixture having 20 solids content, i.e., final zeolite content. To a solution of 0.8g NaAlO2 and l.lg NaOH in 12.2g H2 was added to a solution of 6.6 TPABr in 50g 30 silica sol. The resultant mixture was stirred at 1600C for 5 hours in an autoclave.Its composition is described by the following mole ratios of components SiO2 A1203 80 H20 SiO2 10 OH SiO2 0.11 Na SiO2 0.14 TPA SiO2 0.09 From this experiment 13 .7g of ZSM 5 was recovered, corresponding to 19.3 of the weight of materials added. When an analogous mixture was prepared using commercially obtained sodium silicate at a H2O SiO2 ratio of 10, stirring was impeded and the crystallization failed. EXAMPLE 2 This example demonstrates rate advantages with SiO2 sol, as compared with connercially obtained sodium silicate. The stiff gels characteristic of the latter forced comparison to be made at a lower solids content than evisioned in this invention. Reaction mixtures were prepared as in Example 1 except that the H O SiO2 ratio was 20. In 2 hours at 1600C crystallization was complete with silica sol 4 hours were required with the commercial sodium silicate. It can readily be seen from the examples disclosed above that the method of this invention results in improved ZSM 5 production resulting in a less viscous crystallizing medium wherein the combination of low viscosity and high concentrations result in higher production rates, demonstrated by improved rates of crystallinity and higher solids content, for ZSM 5 type crystalline aluminosilicates.