# Method and kit for identification of beta lactamases.

## Abstract
The invention provides a way of identifying the beta lactamase specifically, by monitoring competition reactions between a chromogenic substrate, for example nitrocefin, and various competing substrates, preferably some of the newer beta lactams, for example cefoxitin, moxalactam, MK 0787 etc. Detailed study of these reactions by the inventor has shown unexpectedly marked variations in the reactivity affinity of these enzymes for the different beta lactams. On this basis the invention provides an assay for the identifying unknown the beta lactamases based on comparing their be haviour in the competition reaction with affinity data on known beta lactamases. The chromogenic substrate and a selection of the most useful beta lactams are provided as a kit. It can contain prepared mixtures of the beta lactams and chromogenic substrate. The assay can be carried out visually using micro titre plates and a simple scoring system or more quantitatively by spectrophotometric scanning. It can be used for the rapid identification of beta lactamases in a hospital laboratory or for the identification of gram negative bacteria based on the beta lactamases which they produce.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method of identifying or helping to identify an unidentified beta lactamase, which method comprises performing a competitive assay on said beta lactamase with 1 a chromogenic beta lactamcontaining substrate capable of undergoing a change in its visible light spectrum when reacted under the competitive assay conditions with beta lactamases and 2 a competing substrate, monitoring the assay for a change in the visible light spectrum of the chromogenic substrate, thence determining a relative affinity of the competing substrate to the chromogenic substrate for the unidentified bet an lactamase, if necessary repeating said assay at least once using for each assay a different competing substrate, or different conditions of assay, and identifying the beta lactamase by reference to a compilation of previously determined relative affinities of each competing substrate relative to the chromogenic substrate for different beta lactamases. 2. A method according to Claim 1, using a kit comprising a a chromogenic substrate b competing substrates, each of which will distinguish between the beta lactamases or groups of beta lactamases specified in at least one of the following pairings 1 to 7 1 the group consisting of TEM 1, TEM 2 and SHV 1 from the group consisting of HMS 1, OXA 1, OXA 2, OXA 3, PSE 1, PSE 2, PSE 3 and PSE 4 2 SHV 1 from the group consisting of TEM 1 and TEM 2 3 the group consisting of PSE 1, PSE 2, PSE 3 and PSE 4 from the group consisting of HMS 1, OXA 1, OXA 2 and OXA 3 4 the group consisting of PSE 2 and PSE 3 from the group consisting of PSE 1 and PSE 4 5 PSE 2 from PSE 3 6 HMS 1 from the group consisting of OXA 1, OXA 2 and OXA 3 and 7 OXA 1 from the group consisting of OXA 2 and OXA 3. 3. A method according to Claim 2, modified in that pairing 3 is replaced by the following two pairings, namely 3A the group consisting of PSE 1, PSE 3 and PSE 4 from the group consisting of PSE 2, HMS 1, OXA 1, OXA 2 and OXA 3 3B PSE 2 from the group consisting of HMS 1, OXA 1, OXA 2 and OXA 3, in that PSE 2 is omitted from pairing 4 and in that pairing 5 is omitted. 4. A method according to Claim 2 or 3, modified in that pairing 1 is replaced by two pairings, namely lA the group consisting of TEM 1, TEM 2, SHV 1 and OXA 1, from the group consisting of HMS 1, OXA 2, OXA 3, PSE 1, PSE 2, PSE 3 and PSE 4 and 1B OXA 1 from the group consisting of TEM 1, TEM 2 and SHV 1, in that OXA 1 is omitted from pairings 3 and 6 or, in the case of Claim 3, pairings 3A , 3B and 6 and in that pairing 7 is omitted. 5. A method according to Claim 2, 3 or 4, wherein the kit comprises a competing substrate which distinguishes the group consisting ofE. cloacae and ampicillin induced Pseudomonas aeruginosa 1937E beta lactamases from the group consisting of TEM 1, TEM 2, SHV 1,HMS 1, OXA 1, OXA 2, OXA 3, PSE 1, PSE 2, PSE 3 and PSE 4. 6. A method according to Claim 5, wherein the kit comprises a competing substrate which distinguishes the E. cloacae betalactamase from the ampicillin induced Pseudomonas aeruginosa 1937E beta lactamase. 7. A method according to Claim 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6, wherein the kit comprises a competing substrate which distinguishes between OXA 2 and OXA 3. 8. A method according to Claim 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 or 7, wherein the kit comprises a competing substrate which distinguishes betweenPSE 1 and PSE 4. 9. A method according to any preceding claim wherein the chromogenic substrate is nitrocefin. 10. A method according to any preceding claim wherein the relative affinity is determined quantitatively and each assay is carried out in a manner which enables irreversible inhibition of the beta lactamase by the competing substrate to be detected. 11. A method according to Claim 10 wherein each assay is carried out using at least 4 different ratios of competing substrate to chromogenic substrate and a relative affinity is determined as the ratio Concentration of beta lactam containing substrate which gives a defined percentage inhibition of cleavage of the chromogenic substrate Concentration of chromogenic substrate 12. A method according to Claim 11 wherein the defined percentage is 50 percent. 13. A method according to Claim 10, 11 or 12 wherein the assay is monitored spectrophotometrically. 14. A method according to Claim 13 carried out using a kit defined in any one of Claims 2 to 8, in which the competing substrates of the kit will distinguish between the beta lactamases or groups thereof by a ratio of at least 2.5 1 in their relative substrate affinity index defined by the ratio Concentration of beta lactam containing substrate which gives 50X inhibition of cleavage of the chromogenic substrate. Concentration of the chromogenic substrate or will distinguish them according to whether or not they give irreversible inhibition. 15. A method according to Claim 14 wherein the distinguishing ratio is at least 10 1. 16. A method according to Claim 13, carried out using a kit which comprises a nitrocefin and b competing substrates selected from each of the following classes 1 to 7 1 Cefoxitin, cefotaxime, moxalactam, ceftizoxime and RO 13 9904 2 Cefoxitin, moxalactam, RO 13 9904 and MK 0787 3 SQ 14,359, moxalactam and MK 0787 4 Cefamandole, cephradine, CP 45,899, clavulanic acid and MK 0787 5 Cloxacillin, cephaloridine, cefotaxime, SQ 14,359, cefamandole, mecillinam, RO 13 9904 and CP 45,899 6 Cefoperazone, carbenicillin, mecillinam, ceftazidime and MK 0787 and 7 Cephaloridine, cefoxitin, SQ 14,359, CP 45,899, clavulanic acid,.MK 0787 and ticarcillin. 17. A method according to Claim 16, modified in that class 3 is replaced by the following classes 3A and 3B 3A Cefotaxime 3B Cefamandole, cephradine, MK 0787, CP 45,899 and clavulanic acid and in that class 5 is omitted. 18. A method according to Claim 16 or 17, modified in that class 1 is replaced by the following classes 1A and 1B 1A SQ 14,359 1B moxalactam, cephradine, mecillinam, ceftizoxime, RO 13 9904, CP 45,899 and MK 0787 and in that class 7 is omitted. 19. A method according to Claim 16, 17 or 18, in which the competing substrates are further selected from any one or more of the following further classes 8 cloxacillin, cefotaxime, SQ 14,359, moxalactam, carbeni cillin, ceftazidime, clavulanic acid, amoxycillin and ticarcillin 9 ampicillin, cloxacillin, cefoxitin and cefuroxime and 10 ampicillin, RO 13 9904, CP 45,899 and clavulanic acid. 20. A method according to Claim 19, wherein the competing substrates include at least one from class 8 and at least one of moxalactam, carbenicillin, cefamandole, mecillinam, ceftizoxime and RO 13 9904. 21. A method according to Claim 13, carried out using a kit which comprises a nitrocefin as chromogenic substrate and b any of the following sets of competing substrates i cefoxitin, ii moxalactam or MK 0787 and iii mecillinam i cefoxitin, ii MK 0787 and iii any one of cloxacillin, cephaloridine, cefotaxime, SQ 14,359, cefamandole, RO 13 9904 and CP 45,899 i cefoxitin, ii SQ 14,359, iii any one of cefaman dole, cephradine, CP 45,899, clavulanic acid and MK 0787, and iv any one of cefoperazone, carheni cillin, mecillinam or ceftazidime i cefoxitin ii cefotaxime and iii MK 0787. or iii any one of cefamandole, cephradine, CP 45,899, and clavulanic acid and iv any one of cefoperazone, carbenicillin, mecillinam and ceftazidime i moxalactam, ii MK 0787 and iii any one of cloxacillin, cephaloridine, cefotaxime, SQ 14,359, cefamandole, mecillinam, RO 13 9904 and CP 45,899 i moxalactam, ii CP 45,899 and iii any one of cefoperazone, carbenicillin, mecillinam and ceftazi dime i moxalactam, ii mecillinam and iii clavulanic acid i RO 13 9904 and ii MK 0787 i RO 13 9904, ii SQ 14,359, iii any one of cefaman dole, cephradine, CP 45,899 and clavulanic acid and iv any one of cefoperazone, carbenicillin, mecil linam and ceftazidime. 22. A method according to any one of Claims 1 to 9 wherein a relative affinity is determined semi quantitatively and the assay is monitored by visual inspection. 23. A method according to Claim 22 wherein each assay is carried out using a ratio of competing substrate to chromogenic substrate such that a visually recognisable difference in the spectrum of the chromogenic substrate occurs between competitive assays of different beta lactamases using the same competing beta lactamase. 24. A method according to Claim 23 wherein the relative affinity is determined as a score according to whether there is substantially no change in the spectrum of the chromogenic substrate, a small change or a large one. 25. A method according to Claim 22, 23 or 24 wherein the assay is monitored merely by eye. 26. A method according to Claim 25 carried out using a kit comprising a nitrocefin as chromogenic substrate and b cefoxitin, cefotaxime, cefamandole and mecillinam. 27. A method according to Claim 25 or 26 wherein the kit includes a beta lactam selected from at least one of the following groupings 1 to 3 1 moxalactam, cloxacillin, cefotaxime or SQ 14,359 2 cloxacillin, cefoxitin or cefuroxime and 3 RO 13 9904. 28. A method according to Claim 22, 23 or 24 wherein the assay is monitored spectrophotometrically and irreversible inhibition is determined. 29. A method according to Claim 28 carried out using a kit comprising a nitrocefin as chromogenic substrate and b either cefoxitin, cefotaxime, cefamadole, mecillinam, moxalactam, cloxacillin, clavulanic acid and RO 13 9904 or SQ 14,359, moxalactam, cephradine, ceftazidime, cloxacillin, cefoxitin, CP 45,899 and clavulanic acid. 30. A method according to any preceding claim wherein the betalactamase to be identified is extracted from bacteria obtained from a sample of human blood. 31. A kit for use in a method according to Claim 10, comprising a at least two sets of mixtures of the chromogenic substrate and a competing substrate, each in at least 4 different ratios per set and the competing substrate being different in each set of mixtures, and b the chromogenic substrate per se, as a control. 32. A kit according to Claim 31 which further includes a spectrophotometer, a member carrying the compilation of relative affinities and a computer programmed to compute the relative affinities determined from the assay and to compare the determined relative affinities with the compilation. 33. A kit for use in a method according to Claim 1, said kit being as defined in any one of Claims 1 to 9. 34. A kit for use in a method according to Claim 16, said kit being as defined in any one of Claims 16 to 22. 35. A kit for use in a method according to Claim 23, comprising a at least two sets of a mixture of the chromogenic substrate with a competing substrate, each in a ratio as defined in Claim 23, and b the chromogenic substrate per se, as a control. 36. A kit according to Claim 35 which further includes a member carrying a compilation of relative affinities in the form of a chart of scores as defined in Claim 24 or a colour chart or both. 37. A kit for use in a method according to Claim 23, said kit being as defined in any one of Claims 26, 27 and 29. 38. A kit according to Claim 37 containing cefoxitin in two different ratios to nitrocefin, as chromogenic substrate. 39. A kit according to any one of Claims 31 to 38, which further includes an identified beta lactamase for testing the kit.

## Description
METHOD AND KIT FOR IDENTIFICATION OF BETA LACTAMASES This invention relates to an assay method for identifying or assisting in identifying beta lactamase enzymes, especially in bacterial extracts, and a kit for use in the assay method. Many antibiotics, particularly of the penicillin and cephalosporin classes, contain a beta lactam ring of formula EMI1.1 and are conveniently referred to as beta lactam antibiotics.These antibiotics have been used for many years to treat bacterial infections. However, bacteria showing marked resistance to several beta lactan antibiotics have evolved. This resistance is now widespread anong many genera of bacteria. treanwhile, new betalactam antibiotics are being developed. The most common mechanism by which bacteria resist the betalactam antibiotics is the production of beta lactamase enzymes beta lactamases . Beta lactamases hydrolyse the beta lactam group, causing ring opening and therapeutic de activation of the antibiotic. Several distinct beta lactamases, coded for by plasmids, have been identified in different gram negative bacteria, see Matthew, Hedges and Smith in J. Bacteriol. 138, 657 662 1979 .The identification was carried out on the basis of their rates of hydrolysis on a range of beta lactam substrates, together with isoelectric point and molecular weight determination. The relative rates of hydrolysis were monitored by titration. Differences in the rates were found often but not always to be characteristic of different beta lactamases. Equally, the different beta lactam substrates have different rates of hydrolysis for the same betalactamase. The determination of hydrolysis rates is very laborious, particularly since multiple titrations are required. Such a method is time consuming and open to human error. It is also insensitive in cases in which the beta lactam substrate has a relatively high affinity for the enzyme under test.Another problem is that in many cases it is impossible to distinguish whether a low rate of hydrolysis should be ascribed to low affinity of the enzyme for the beta lactam substrate or to inhibition of the enzyme by the substrate. Isoelectric point determination of beta lactamases has been carried out by isoelectric focussing. See, for example, Matthew et al in Journal of General Microbiology 1975 , 88, 169. In this method a sheet of polyacrylamide gel containing ampholytes is connected to electrodes. The sample of unknown beta lactamase is applied to the gel near the anode. A pH gradient is produced in the gel electrophoretically and the enzyme migrates to that part of the gel having a pH corresponding to the isoelectric point pI of the enzyme. The enzyme focusses into sharply defined bands at the pI area. The focussing force is more powerful than any tendency to diffuse. Isoelectric focussing has various disadvantages. It is difficult to automate, large numbers of samples are required and it is expensive and time consuming.Since different enzymes often have similar pius, it is not always easy to distinguish between enzymes on the basis of isoelectric focussing alone.It has therefore often been found necessary to use both isoelectric focussing and determination of hydrolysis rates of beta lactam substrates in order to identify beta lactamases. Existing kits for identifying beta lactamases are effective only for a very few of them. It has now been found that beta lactamases can be identified by an assay which is rapid and simple to perform. The invention is concerned with a competitive assay in which a reference beta lactam containing substrate having or acquiring as a result of the assay a distinctive spectral characteristic in the visible light region of the spectrum a chromogenic substrate , and another substrate a competing iubstrate , usually another beta lactam, compete for a limited quantity of a beta lactamase.The assay depends upon competition tween two reactions. The first reaction is between the chromc3enic substrate, for example nitrocefin, and the beta lactamase enzyme. Nitrocefin is a cephalosporin which has a yellow colour. Hydrolysis by a betalactamase causes opening of the lactam ring, producing a bathochromic shift in its absorption spectrum and consequently a change of colour to red. The second, competing reaction, between the beta lactamase and the competing substrate, for example a beta lactam, will, depending upon its extent, inhibit formation of this red colour. For any specific concentration of competing beta lactam, the degree of bathochromic shift which has taken place will be a function of the relative affinity of the betalactamase for that substrate. The invention includes specifically a method of identifying or helping to identify an unidentified beta lactamase, which method comprises performing a competitive assay on said betalactamase with 1 a chromogenic beta lactam containing substrate and 2 a competing substrate, monitoring the assay for a change, resulting from the assay, in the visible light spectrum of the chromogenic substrate, determining from this change a relative affinity of the competing substrate to the chromogenic substrate for the unidentified beta lactamase, if necessary repeating said assay at least once using for each assay a different competing substrate or different conditions of assay, and identifying the beta lactamase by reference to a compilation of previously determined, relative affinities of each competing substrate relative to the chromogenic substrate for different beta lactamases. The use of nitrocefin in the detection of beta lactamases generically, i.e. without identifying the kind of beta lactamase, is not new, see British Patent Specification No. 1,408,391 and numerous literature papers from 1972 onwards. Also, competitive assays using nitrocefin with other beta lactams against known beta lactamases have been used to compare the relative effectiveness of beta lactam antibiotics. What is novel and inventive herein is firstly the finding that a series of competitive assays on known beta lactamases using a chromogenic substrate, e.g. nitrocefin, and a competing substrate, normally a beta lactam, gives results which form a data bank of unexpected value. Secondly, these data can be used to select the best competing substrates for use in one or more subsequent competitive assays to identify a particular unknown unidentified beta lactamase.It was totally unforeseen that a competitive assay using a chromogenic substrate with a carefully selected competing beta lactam, or a small number of assays using a different competing beta lactam in each, would produce results differing so widely between different betalactamases as to serve as a fingerprint to identify the beta lactamase. Still less has it been foreseen that the method of the invention would be capable of automation, using a spectrophotometer and computer, at modest cost, or lead to a simple visual method of identifying the beta lactamases which occur most frequently clinically. The chromogenic substrate can be any which is capable of undergoing a change in its visible light spectrum when reacted under the competitive assay conditions with beta lactamases, i.e.with at least those beta lactamases from which the unidentified beta lactamase is required to be identified. The chromogenic substrate has a visible colour per se or upon hydrolysis or, most conveniently, both. It is usually convenient to monitor a new absorption resulting from the reaction, but it is also possible to monitor the change in its original absorption. A shift in absorption caused by the reaction can be auxochromic or bathochromic. The preferred chromogenic substrate for use in the present invention is nitrocefin. Nitrocefin is the E isomer of 3 2,4 dinitrostyryl 6R,7R 7 2 thienylacetamido ceph 3 em 4 carboxylic acid. It has an absorption maximum at approximately 386 nm. which is responsible for its yellow colour. On hydrolysis of its betalactam ring there is a bathochromic shift, giving an absorption maximum of wavelength some 100 nm longer, i.e. about 486 nm. This shift is responsible for the red colour. The relationship explained hereinafter between enzyme concentration and optical density at about 486 nm is linear over quite a wide range of initial concentration of enzyme, typically 0.006 to 0.2 enzyme units. It is therefore preferred to monitor the assay spectro scopically, determining the absorption at a wavelength in the region of 486 nm. Although nitrocefin is greatly preferred, other chromogenic beta lactam containing substrates could be used. For example,N 2 furyl acryloyl penicillin shows a fall in absorbance at 330 nm. on hydrolysis, Durkin et al, J. Antibiot., 30, 883 885 1977 . Another chromogenic substrate is described by Knusel et al. in Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy, 140 149 1976 and could be used in the assay of the invention. Of course, not every chromogenic substrate is necessarily useful with every betalactamase, but nitrocefin has displayed the desired high affinity for, and reversible attachment to, a wide variety of betalactamases. Very recently, a new chromogenic cephalosporin has been sold by Hoechst AG under the name PADAC , and has been described as a 3 position pyridinium 2 azo p dimethylanilinesubstituted cephalosporin.This can also be used in the present invention, but it has a lower affinity for beta lactamases than nitrocefin and is apparently not cleaved by one of the common clinical beta lactamases, OXA 1. Example 10 illustrates its use in more detail. The competing substrate can be any compound which competes with the chromogenic substrate for the beta lactamase and, selfevidently, which does not mask the spectral change of the chromogenic substrate. In practice it will normally be a nonchromogenic beta lactam, e.g. a penicillin, cephalosporin or thienamycin. The invention includes two main embodiments. In the first embodiment the assays are monitored to give a quantitative relative affinity. This is conveniently done by a spectrophotometer which gives in the first instance a series of readings of optical densities.Each assay consists of a series of individual experiments carried out using different concentrations of competing substrate. From the readings there is calculated, by computer, a single numerical relative affinity which applies to the particular combination of beta lactamase, chromogenic substrate and competing substrate and at a particular chosen temperature of assay. These numerical relative affinities have widely separated values differing according to the beta lactamase and the beta lactam. In the second embodiment the relative affinity is determined semi quantitatively and the assay is monitored by visual inspection. Typically, each assay consists of only one experiment, using a carefully predetermined concentration of competing substrate.The concentration is selected so as to give a visually recognisable difference in colour as between different beta lactamases and different betalactams. This method therefore produces a semi quantitative relative affinity which applies to the particular combination of beta lactamase, chromogenic substrate, competing substrate and concentration of competing substrate used. This second embodiment comprises a simple visual method monitored merely by eye or a sophisticated visual method monitored by spectrophotometer. Referring first to the first embodiment, i.e. the quantitative method , a preferred way to compile relative affinities and to carry out the assay is to make a series of determinations of change in optical density corresponding to competition by different concentrations of competing substrate and from these results determine a relative affinity after an arbitrarily chosen time of reaction. It is convenient to express the results in terms of aRelative Substrate Affinity Index RSAI value. RSAI Concentration of competing substrate which gives 50 inhibition of ring opening hydrolysis of the chromogenic substrate Concentration of chromogenic substrate in the assayA high RSAI value therefore indicates a low affinity of the betalactamase for that competing substrate, and therefore predicts resistance of a beta lactam competing substrate to hydrolysis by the beta lactamase. Low RSAI values, in contrast, predict sensitivity to hydrolysis by a beta lactamase. Of course, the relative affinity could be expressed in any other appropriate way. In particular any other degree of inhibition could be substituted for the 50 degree chosen above, subject of course to the demands of accuracy in measurement and distinguishing adequately between different competing substrates whenever possible. Since different bbeta lZactam substrates compete with the chromogenic substrate for a given beta lactamase at widely different concentrations, it might be possible to identify a beta lactamase on the basis of the invention using a single competing beta lactam. If necessary, several different competing beta lactams can be used. Each such beta lactam will usually have a different i profile i determined by its relative affinity towards a plurality of different betarlactamases. In one aspect 9f the invention advantage is taken of the probability that the beta lactamase to be identified will have a profile which is unique for a small number, preferably 1 to 5 competing substrates. To understand the method more fully the reader is referred to Table 1 below in which a compilation of RSAI values is tabulated for nitrocefin as chromogenic substrate. To compile Table 1, assays were performed as described in Example 1 for 26 different competing beta lactam substrates and 17 different beta lactamase enzymes. All these beta lactam substrates are known compounds and their systematic names are given in the IndexGuide for Chemical Abstracts published by the American ChemicalSociety. The newer ones will be found in the 1977 80 CumulativeIndex Guide Supplement. Table 1 also gives some isoelectric points and Michaelis constants. Of the 17 beta lactamases in Table 1, only 11 are currently produced on a significant scale by ordinary bacteria. These are TEM 1, TEM 2, SHV 1, HMS 1, OXA 1 to 3 and PSE 1 to 4 numbered 1 7 and 10 13 in the Table . Of the three chromosomally coded enzymes Enterobacter cloacae 8 is not very important clinically, E. coli SNU 35 9 is an artificially produced organism and Pseudomonas aeruginosa 1937E 14 is induced by ampicillin treatment. Klebsiella normally produce SHV 1, TEM 1 or a mixture of the two. The Klebsiella derived enzymes listed in the Table have been obtained from clinical isolates but they are rare. K 10317 is a Klebsiella aerogenes from the UK NationalCollection of Type Cultures. K 1073 is a Klebsiella of capsular serotype 21 obtained from a patient in the West Midlands in 1980 and characterised by theCoventry Public Health Laboratory. K17 is a Klebsiella of capsular serotype 17 obtained from New Zealand in 1980 and kindly supplied by Professor Mary Cooke, Microbiology Department, Leeds University. TABLE 1 RSAI VALUES NITROCEFIN EMI8.1 tb SEP Bacterial SEP Beta SEP Isoelectric SEP SEP tb SEP Enzyme SEP origin SEP of SEP lactamase SEP SEP point SEP of SEP Km SEP Pg ml SEP tb SEP No. SEP the SEP enzyme SEP enzyme SEP .enzyme SEP Nitrocefin SEP tb SEP 1. SEP E. SEP coli SEP 2136E SEP TEM 1 SEP 5.4 tb SEP 2. SEP E. SEP coli SEP 1725E SEP TEM 2 SEP 5.6 SEP 25 tb SEP 3. SEP E. SEP coli SEP 2008E SEP SHV 1 SEP 7.6 SEP 16 tb SEP 4. SEP E. SEP coli SEP 1946 SEP HMS 1 SEP 5.2 tb SEP 5. SEP E. SEP coli SEP 1527E SEP OXA 1 SEP 7.4 SEP 9 tb SEP 6. SEP E. SEP coli SEP R46 SEP OXA 2 SEP 7.6 SEP CS SEP tb SEP 7. SEP E. SEP coli SEP R57B SEP OXA 3 SEP SEP SEP 7.1 SEP 28 tb SEP 8. SEP E. SEP cloacae SEP Chromosomal. SEP f SEP tb SEP constitutive tb SEP 9. SEP E. SEP coli SEP SNU35 SEP Chromosomal, SEP SEP 18 tb SEP hyper induced SEP i SEP tb SEP 10. SEP Ps.aerug. SEP 1937E SEP PSE 1 SEP 5.7 tb SEP 11. SEP Ps.aerug. SEP 1973E SEP PSE 2 tb SEP 12. SEP Ps.aerug. SEP 1920E SEP PSE 3 tb SEP 13. SEP Ps.aerug. SEP 1559E SEP I SEP SEP PSE 4 tb SEP 14. SEP Ps.aerug. SEP 1937E SEP SEP Chromosomal, SEP tb SEP ampicillin SEP induced tb SEP 15. SEP K.aerog. SEP 10317 SEP tb SEP 16. SEP Klebsiella SEP 1073 tb 1 SEP tb 17. SEP Klebsiella SEP 17 tb mean of two determinations TABLE 1 RSAI VALUES NITROCEFIN continuedEMI9.1 tb En tb zyme SEP Peni SEP Ampi SEP Cephalo SEP Cephalo SEP Cephalo SEP Cefoxi tb No. SEP cillin SEP G SEP cillin SEP Cloxacillin SEP thin SEP zolin SEP ridine SEP tin tb SEP 1. SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 0.75 SEP 10 SEP 30 SEP 40 SEP 60 tb SEP 2. SEP 1 SEP 2.6 SEP 0.5 SEP 15 SEP 48 SEP 20 SEP 60 tb SEP 3. SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 7 SEP 15 SEP 30 SEP 600 tb SEP 4. SEP 0.5 SEP 0.5 SEP 0.02 SEP 1 SEP 0.8 SEP 6 SEP 60 tb SEP 5. SEP 0.2 SEP 4 SEP 0.6 SEP 4 SEP 10 SEP 60 SEP 20 tb SEP 6. SEP 0.6 SEP 10 SEP 30 SEP 0.7 SEP 3.4 SEP 4 SEP 0.2 tb SEP 7. SEP 0.4 SEP 0.2 SEP 0.01 SEP 0.4 SEP 3.4 SEP 4.4 SEP 0.004 tb SEP 8. SEP 0.08 SEP 0.02 SEP 0.00004 SEP 0.6 SEP 17 SEP 16 SEP 0.01 tb SEP 9. SEP 0.18 SEP 0.03 SEP 0.0000016 SEP 0.8 SEP 46 SEP 2 SEP 0.0008 tb 10. SEP 0.6 SEP 0.4 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 6 SEP 20 tb 11. SEP 0.2 SEP 0.85 SEP 4.5 SEP 0.54 SEP 1.4 SEP 22 SEP 24 tb 12. SEP 0.3 SEP 1.7 SEP 0.24 SEP 0.76 SEP 3.2 SEP 2.2 SEP 11.4 tb 13. SEP 0.48 SEP 2.7 SEP 3.3 SEP 6 SEP 2.6 SEP 3.5 SEP 27 tb 14. SEP 0.13 SEP 0.12 SEP 0.00017 SEP i SEP 0.7 SEP 15 SEP 1.5 SEP 0.003 tb 15. SEP 2.2 SEP 9.4 SEP 3.7 SEP 1 SEP 7 SEP 30 SEP 30 SEP 350 tb 16. SEP 2 SEP 6.7 SEP 4 SEP 5.8 SEP 16 SEP 19.2 SEP 1020 tb 17. SEP 1.2 SEP 2.9 SEP 14 SEP 1.8 SEP 1 SEP 5.4 SEP 1.6 tb mean of two determinations shows irreversible inhibition TABLE 1 RSAI VALUES NITROCEFIN continuedEMI10.1 tb SEP SQ. SEP Cefopera SEP Carbeni tb Enzyme SEP Cefuroxime SEP Cefotaxime SEP 14,359 SEP Moxalactam SEP zone SEP cillin tb SEP 1. SEP 50 SEP 400 SEP 10 SEP 40 SEP 8 SEP 0.6 tb SEP 2. SEP 40 SEP 600 SEP 15 SEP 60 SEP 10 SEP 0.4 tb SEP 3. SEP 20 SEP 400 SEP 45 SEP 280 SEP 4.5 SEP 0.5 tb SEP 4. SEP 16 SEP 11 SEP 1.5 SEP 0.3 SEP 0.2 SEP 0.09 tb SEP 5. SEP 10 SEP 9 SEP 50 SEP 4 SEP 4.5 SEP 0.5 tb SEP 6. SEP 3.6 SEP 12 SEP 0.7 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 15 tb SEP 7. SEP 0.003 SEP 15 SEP 0.6 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 12 tb SEP 8. SEP 0.0002 SEP 0.0006 SEP 0.002 SEP 0.0001 SEP 1.3 SEP 0.0003 tb SEP 9. SEP 0.002 SEP 0.004 SEP 0.003 SEP 0.002 SEP 1.9 SEP 0.00005 tb SEP 10. SEP 50 SEP 70 SEP 1.8 SEP i SEP 3.5 SEP 0.019 SEP 1.4 tb SEP 11. SEP 1.7 SEP 9.6 SEP 4.5 SEP 8.2 SEP 0.48 SEP 5.5 tb SEP 12. SEP 12 SEP 100 SEP 0.1 SEP 7 SEP 0.07 SEP 1.35 tb SEP 13. SEP 34 SEP 50 SEP 0.94 SEP 4.3 SEP 0.014 SEP 3 tb SEP 14. SEP 0.0001 SEP 0.004 SEP 0.004 SEP 0.006 SEP 0.5 SEP 0.008 tb SEP 15. SEP 14 SEP 320 SEP 29 SEP 60 SEP 5 SEP 0.7 tb SEP 16. SEP 12 SEP 330 SEP 60 SEP 80 SEP 2.2 SEP 0.5 tb SEP 17. SEP 2.3 SEP 60 SEP 7 SEP 3.5 SEP 0.006 SEP 0.4 tb shows irreversible inhibition TABLE 1 RSAI VALUES NITROCEFIN continuedEMI11.1 tb En tb zyme SEP Cefaman SEP Cephra SEP Mecil SEP Cefti SEP Ceftazidime SEP R0 13 tb No. SEP dole SEP dine SEP linam SEP zoxime SEP GR SEP 20,263 SEP 9904 SEP CP SEP 45,899 tb SEP 1. SEP 11 SEP 35 SEP 90 SEP 1000 SEP 400 SEP 400 SEP 0.02 tb SEP 2. SEP 11 SEP 50 SEP 80 SEP 1000 SEP 1500 SEP 600 SEP 0.04 tb SEP 3. SEP 6.6 SEP 15 SEP 80 SEP 1400 SEP 1140 SEP 160 SEP 0.018 tb SEP 4. SEP 0.5 SEP 25 SEP 2 SEP 66 SEP 10 SEP 14 SEP 0.025 tb SEP 5. SEP 1.5 SEP 420 SEP 400 SEP 50 SEP 2000 SEP 0.9 SEP 8 SEP tb SEP 6. SEP 1.7 SEP 86 SEP 100 SEP 110 SEP 900 SEP 10 SEP 0.15 tb SEP 7. SEP 0.75 SEP 100 SEP 30 SEP 200 SEP 400 SEP 3 SEP 0.05 tb SEP 8. SEP 0.03 SEP 1.8 SEP 1.3 SEP 0.1 SEP 0.1 SEP 0.0003 SEP 6.5 tb SEP 9. SEP 0.12 SEP 0.12 SEP 0.7 SEP 1.7 SEP 0.2 SEP 0.01 SEP 1.7 tb 10. SEP 6.9 SEP 46 SEP 66 SEP 360 SEP 600 SEP 14 SEP 0.036 tb 11. SEP 0.06 SEP 4.2 SEP 450 SEP 128 SEP 400 SEP 0.76 SEP 16 tb 12. SEP 0.006 SEP 3.6 SEP 15 SEP 120 SEP 144 SEP 36 SEP 0.0014 tb 13. SEP 9 SEP 1 SEP SEP 80 SEP 140 SEP 380 SEP 420 SEP 42 SEP 0.015 tb 14. SEP 5 SEP SEP SEP 1 SEP 68 SEP 500 SEP 0.46 SEP 38 SEP 2.5 tb 15. SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 18 SEP 80 SEP 630 SEP N SEP 1000 SEP 74 SEP 0.08 tb 16. SEP 3.9 SEP 3 SEP SEP 102 SEP 720 SEP 1420 SEP 116 SEP 0.18 tb 17. SEP 1.8 SEP 10.4 SEP 260 SEP 220 SEP 880 SEP 4 SEP 0.5 tb shows irreversible inhibition RO 13 9904 001 was actually used. TABLE 1 RSAI VALUES NITROCEFIN continuedEMI12.1 tb En SEP MK SEP 0787 tb zyme SEP Clavulanic SEP N Formimidoyl SEP Amoxy SEP Ticar SEP Azlo SEP SEP SEP Mezlo SEP tb No. SEP acid SEP thienamycin SEP cillin SEP cillin SEP cillin SEP cillin tb SEP 1. SEP 0.003 SEP 0.1 SEP 1.3 SEP 0.035 SEP 1 SEP 3.6 tb SEP 2. SEP 0.002 SEP 0.1 SEP 2.2 SEP 0.49 SEP 1.1 SEP SEP 1 SEP 6.3 SEP tb SEP 3. SEP 0.006 SEP 1.2 SEP 2.8 SEP 0.23 SEP 1.6 SEP 3 tb SEP 4. SEP 0.006 SEP 1.2 SEP 0.8 SEP 0.175 SEP 0.42 SEP j SEP 0.9 tb SEP 5. SEP 0.02 SEP 0.6 SEP 1.2 SEP 0.65 SEP 1.4 SEP 1.9 tb SEP 6. SEP 09 SEP 0.005 SEP 8 SEP 26 SEP 19 SEP 19.4 tb SEP 7. SEP 1 SEP 1.6 SEP 0.0016 SEP 8.6 SEP 12 SEP 9 SEP 19.2 tb SEP 8. SEP 50 SEP 0.03 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.0008 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.4 tb SEP 9. SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 0.02 SEP 0.001 SEP 0.02 SEP 0.3 tb 10. SEP 0.0001 SEP 19.4 SEP 0.9 SEP 0.63 SEP 0.23 SEP 1.2 tb 11. SEP 0.4 SEP 0.08 SEP 2.2 SEP 2.4 SEP 2.64 SEP 4.75 tb 12. SEP 0.014 SEP 0.5 SEP 1.5 SEP 2 SEP 0.54 SEP 0.8 tb 13. SEP 0.004 SEP 15 SEP 1 SEP 0.65 SEP 0.36 SEP 0.9 tb 14. SEP SEP 40 SEP 0.015 SEP 0.035 SEP 0.0065 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.26 tb 15. SEP 0.004 SEP 0.24 SEP 7 SEP 0.48 SEP 3 SEP 16.4 tb 16. SEP 0.004 SEP 1.9 SEP 1.7 SEP 0.485 SEP 1.9 SEP 5.5 tb 17. SEP 0.004 SEP 2.1 SEP 1.3 SEP 0.25 SEP 1.1 SEP 1.3 tb shows irreversible inhibition Referring to Table 1, the chief way of identifying a betalactamase is by the widely different RSAI values given by different beta lactamases for the same beta lactam. Each RSAI value in theTable should be given at least a 20 margin for possible error.Normally there should be a factor of at least 2 1, between theRSAI values of beta lactamases to be distinguished, and most preferably at least 10 1. The greater the difference in RSAI values the better. While some beta lactamases are difficult to distinguish and on occasion might require the use of a beta lactam giving RSAI s differing by a factor of only 2.5 1 or 4 1, up to 10 1, a ratio of 10 1 or higher is achievable in most instances. For example, cefoxitin gives RSAI 600 for SHV 1 but a value of no more than 60 for any of the other 10 commonly occurring beta lactamases. A single assay therefore serves to make the distinction, thereby identifying or helping to identify SHV 1. Further assistance in the identification is provided by the detection of irreversible inhibition. This term will now be explained. In the assay, an enzyme substrate complex is formed as the reaction proceeds. The substrate can attach itself reversibly to the enzyme or become bound irreversibly. When reversible attachment occurs the beta lactam ring is cleaved and the hydrolysis cleavage product is released rapidly from the substrate. Nitrocef in and many cephalosporin and penicillin antibiotics behave in this way towards most beta lactamases. A plot of optical density a measure of concentration of chromogenic substrate against time is linear. More rarely, irreversible binding occurs, so the beta lactam substrate is not released rapidly from the enzyme. Occasionally it may become bonded to it covalently .After a short time, therefore, the number of active enzyme molecules becomes very small. A plot of optical density against time is therefore non linear. A given competing beta lactam substrate which shows irreversible binding does not do so towards every beta lactamase. Consequently, the nature of the binding is an additional feature in the compilation of relative affinities, serving to help to identify a beta lactamase. For example, clavulanic acid binds irreversibly to PSE 4 but reversibly to PSE 1, and is therefore particularly useful for distinguishing these two heta lactamases. Referring now to the commonly occurring beta lactamases Nos. 1 7 and 10 13 of the Table the competing substrates can be selected on the basis of various protocols. One preferred protocol involves selecting competing substrates each of which will distinguish between the beta lactamases or groups of betalactamases specified in, at least two and preferably all seven of the following pairings 1 to 7 1 The group consisting of TEM 1, TEM 2 and SHV 1 from the group consisting of HMS 1, OXA 1, OXA 2, OXA 3, PSE 1, PSE 2, PSE 3 and PSE 4. Suitable beta lactams include cefoxitin, moxalactam,RO 13 9904, cefotaxime and ceftizoxime, of which the first two are the most preferred. 2 SHV 1 from the group consisting of TEM 1 and TEM 2. Suitable beta lactams include cefoxitin, moxalactam, RO 13 9904 and MK 0787. 3 The group consisitng of PSE 1, PSE 2, PSE 3 and PSE 4 from the group consisting of HMS 1, OXA 1, OXA 2 and OXA 3. Suitable heta lactams include SQ. 14,359, moxalactam and MK 0787. 4 The group consisting of PSE 2 and PSE 3 from the group consisting of PSE 1 and PSE 4. Suitable beta lactams include cefamandole, cephradine, CP 45, 899, clavulanic acid and MK 0787. 5 PSE 2 from PSE 3. Suitable beta lactams include cloxacillin, cephaloridine, cefotaxime, SQ 14,359, cefamandole, mecillinamRO 13 9904 and CP 45,899. 6 HMS 1 from the group consisting of OXA 1, OXA 2 and OXA 3.Suitable beta lactams include cefoperazone, carbenicillin, mecillinam, ceftazidime and MK 0787. 7 OXA 1 from the group consisting of OXA 2 and OXA 3. Suitable beta lactams include cephaloridine, cefoxitin, SQ. 14,359, CP 45,899, clavulanic acid, MK 0787 and ticarcillin. The above protocol can be modified. One modification of possible advantage is to make pairing 3 effective to distinguish 3A , the group consisting of PSE 1, PSE 3 and PSE 4 from the group consisting of PSE 2, HMS 1, OXA 1, OXA 2 and OXA 3, and to set up a new pairing 3B in which PSE 2 is distinguished from the group consisting of HMS 1, OXA 1, OXA 2, and OXA 3. PSE 2 is then omitted from pairing 4 , which operates to distinguish PSE 3 over PSE 1 and 4. Pairing 5 , PSE 2 from 3, is then omitted.Cefotaxime can then be used advantageously in 3A to follow this protocol, while 3B is met by cefamandole, cephradine, CP 45,899, clavulanic acid or MK 0787. Similarly it can be advantageous to modify pairing 1 by making it inessential to distinghish the TEM and SHV 1 group over OXA 1. In that case, OXA 1 is distinguished over TEM 1, TEM 2 and SHV 1 in a new pairing 1B . OXA 1 is then omitted from pairing 3 , or 3A and 3B if the above modification is also applied, and also from pairing 6 . Pairing 7 is omitted. Since the same beta lactams are often used for several of the 7 pairings, the number required in a kit for use with the assay is normally less than 7 and is usually from 2 to 5. Of course any number of further competing substrates could be made available in a kit, for reinforcing a distinction. The following are examples of preferred sets of substrates i cefoxitin, ii moxalactam or MK 0787 and iii mecillinam i cefoxitin, ii MK 0787 and iii any one of cloxacillin, cephaloridine, cefotaxime, SQ 14,359, cefamandole, RO 13 9904 andCP 45,899 i cefoxitin, ii SQ 14,359, iii any one of cefamandole, cephradine, CP 45,899 clavulanic acid and MK 0787, and iv any one of cefoperazone, carbencillin, mecillinam or ceftazidime i cefoxitin ii cefotaxime and iii MK 0787 or iii any one of cefamandole, cephradine, CP 45,899, and clavulanic acid and iv any one of cefoperazone, carbenicillin, mecillinam and ceftazidime. i moxalactam, ii MK 0787 and iii any one of cloxacillin, cephaloridine, cefotaxime, SQ 14,359 , cefamandole, mecillinam,RO 13 9904 and CP 45,899. i moxalactam, ii CP 45,899 and iii any one of cefoperazone, carbenicillin, mecillinam and ceftazidime. i moxalactam, ii mecillinam and iii clavulanic acid. i RO 13 9904 and ii MK 0787. i RO 13 9904, ii SQ 14,359, iii any one of cefamandole, cephradine, CP 45,899 and clavulanic acid and iv any one of cefoperazone, carbenicillin, mecillinam and ceftazidime. If it is desired to distinguish between PSE 1 and PSE 4, clavulanic acid, CP 45, 899 RO 13 9904 or ampicillin are suggested as a further beta lactam. When cefoxitin is used as the first beta lactam, OXA 2 is already distinguished from OXA 3. Otherwise, cefoxitin, cloxacillin, cefuroxime or ampicillin are suggested when this distinction is desired. All the above combinations can be supplemented or reinforced by using additional competing substrates. The Table of RSAI values will suggest further alternatives. Other alternatives will become available as new beta lactams become available. These could be cephalosporins, thienamycins or monobactams, for example.The assays of the invention require only small quantities of the competing substrate and, of course, since their use is purely diagnostic, even experimental beta lactams which have not been clinically tested could be used. It is not always necessary to distinguish every pair of candidate beta lactamases. Indeed, it is a special advantage of the invention that it mimics a therapy situation. If a pair of candidate beta lactamases is not readily distinguishable, it is virtually certain that there is no need to distinguish them, for the same therapy will probably apply to both. TEM 1 and TEM 2,OXA 2 and OXA 3 and PSE 1 and PSE 4 are the most difficult pairs of the commonly occurring beta lactamase to distinguish. TEM 1 and TEM 2 have been shown to be virtually identical molecules, differing by a single amino acid and react very similarly towards beta lactams. The invention is, of course, applicable to identifying a beta lactamase uniquely or as a member of a small group of similar beta lactamases, or merely for distinguishing two betalactamases or groups of beta lactamases from each other.Thus, competing beta lactams in the above lists of preferences could be omitted from the above lists where the distinction required is cruder or the number of candidate beta lactamases smaller. Considering the rarer of the 17 enzymes listed, the chromosomally coded enzymes are readily distinguished as a group from all the others by moxalactam, cloxacillin, cefotaxime, SQ 14,359, amoxycillin, carbenicillin, ticarcillin, ceftazidime or clavulanic acid, for example. Several beta lactams will distinguish thePseudomonas chromosomally coded enzyme from the E. cloacae one, including moxalactam, carbenicillin, cefamandole, mecillinam, ceftizoxime and RO 13 9904. E. coli SNU 35 has no significance at present, but is readily distinguishable from the E. cloacae enzyme by cloxacillin, RO 13 9904, cefamandole, cephaloridine, or ampicillin, for example. SHV 1 and the Klebsiella enzymes K10317 and K1073 appear to be related. Antibodies to SHV 1 cross react with K10317 and K1073 and their RSAI values are in general similar. It is therefore probably unnecessary to distinguish between them. If necessary, moxalactam or cloxacillin could be used to do so. The Klebsiella enzyme K 17 can usually be distinguished from all others in theTable by cefoxitin, but a confirmatory assay with cefoperazone or mecillinam is possibly useful. The method of the invention can be used to identify a betalactamase which does not correspond to any known such enzyme or the basis of other characterising techniques. The method imparts to it a unique fingerprint . In the quantitative method the relative affinities are preferably compiled as a table on paper or as part of a computer programme which can take any conventional form, for example magnetic tape. Preferably a computer is programmed to compute the relative affinities determined from the assay and to compare the determined relative affinities with those from the compilation. In the visual , i.e. the second main embodiment of the method of the invention, a different kind of relative affinity is used and the assay method also differs. Here, one starts by determining a concentration of competing beta lactam substrate relative to chromogenic substrate at which differences between relative affinities will be recognisable visually when the competitive assays are carried out. In the assays, each competing beta lactam substrate is used only at its predetermined concentration. By visual recognition it is then possible to determine roughly the degree of relative affinity in each assay and thereby identify the beta lactamase. The visual method is more easily understood by considering a specific case. An unknown beta lactamase might be SHV 1 or OXA 1.Table 1 shows that cefoxitin gives a nitrocefin RSAI value of 600 with SHV 1 but only 20 with OXA 1. The RSAI value is determined at 50 inhibition of the chromogenic substrate, in this case nitrocefin. A suitable ratio of cefoxitin to nitrocefin to use in the visual method would therefore be, for example, 200 1. At this concentration the cefoxitin will inhibit the nitrocefin hydrolysis virtually completely when OXA 1 is the enzyme, but will compete only moderately when SHV 1 is the enzyme. Therefore a yellow colour will indicate that the beta lactamase is OXA 1 and a reddish colour SHV 1. To take another example, moxalactam has nitrocefin RSAI values of 0.0001, 0.002 and 0.006 for the three chromosomally coded enzymes in Table 1 and no other enzyme gives a value below 0.3 and most are in the range 1 to 100.Using a predetermined ratio of moxalactam to nitrocefin of 0.01 1, all enzymes except the chromosomally coded ones will give a positive result red colour in the assay. As will be evident from the above illustrations, the visual method works best by picking off the beta lactamases which have either exceptionally low or exceptionally high RSAI values by comparison with other beta lactamases from which the test is required to distinguish. It can be used to distinguish between a pair of beta lactamases, to identify a beta lactamase as an individual from a small or large group or to identify a betalactamase as a member of a small group. The compilation of relative affinities in the visual method is preferably based on a simple scoring system involving at most 3 kinds of score, according to whether there is substantially no spectral change, a small change or a large one. For nitrocefin, the preferred scoring system is therefore very red, red or yellow.It can take the form of a table and or colour chart, for example.Sometimes the borderline between very red and red causes difficulty and a colour chart is particularly helpful here. Obviously it is desirable to arrange that the enzymes to be distinguished give a score which is either strongly positive very red or negative yellow . Generally stated, the same protocol as set out above for the quantitative method applies to the visual method. Of course the choice of beta lactams is more restricted if no spectrophotometer is used since it is difficult to detect irreversible inhibition bv eye. Commonly occurring beta lactamses can readily be identified as 1 SHV 1, 2 TEM 1 or TEM 2, 3 HMS 1, 4 OXA 1, 5 OXA 2 or OXA 3, 6 PSE 1 or PSE 4, 7 PSE 2 or 8 PSE 3 by carrying out five assays, using nitrocefin and the following competing beta lactams cefoxitin at a high concentration sufficient to distinguish SHV 1 from all the other listed enzymes cefotaxime at high concentration sufficient to distinguish a PSE 3 fromPSE 2 and b TEM 1, TEM 2 and SHV 1 from HMS 1 and OXA 1 cefamandole, cephradine or MK 0787 at a concentration which distinguishes the PSE 1 and 4 group from the PSE 2 and 3 group mecillinam at a concentration which distinguishes HMS 1 from OXA 1 and cefoxitin at a lower concentration than above, sufficient to distinguish the group TEM 1, TEM 2, SHV 1, HMS 1 and OXA 1 from OXA 2 and OXA 3 and preferably also from the group PSE 2, 3 and 4. Example 8 illustrates this method, using a 6 well plate.If desired a nitrocefin control can be used in the sixth well or it might be preferred to screen the sample first, e.g. with nitrocefin, to detect whether any kind of beta lactamase is present. Alternative beta lactams will be found listed in Example 9 which includes the first 4 beta lactam tests as in Example 8. In each case it is to be understood that concentrations of competing beta lactam substrate to nitrocefin are not limited rigidly to those shown inExamples 8 and 9, but can be varied to make the desired visual distinctions. The scores in the visual tests do not necessarily correlate completely with the RSAI values in Table 1. This is primarily because the Table 1 values relate to assays carried out at 370C, while the visual tests are sometimes carried out at room temperature. Obviously, too drastic a variation in temperature will affect the relative affinity, since beta lactamases differ in their temperature reaction rate relationships. It is of course necessary to use a compilation of relative affinities which holds good for the temperature at which the assays are to be carried out. If one of the chromosomally coded enzymes is present in the sample further competitive assay s will identify them more precisely.For example, several beta lactams will distinguish the Pseudomonas aeruginosa chromosomally coded enzyme from the other two, e.g. mecillinam, RO 13 9904 or ceftizoxime. For visual differentiation, a mecillinam to nitrocefin ratio of about 20 1 is suggested. This will inhibit the E. cloacae and E. coli enzymes without affecting the Ps. aeruginosa enzyme. E. coli SNU 35 is a genetically engineered enzyme which at present has no clinical or natural significance and therefore further assays are not needed. If, however, it should arise through induction, it is readily distinguishible from the E. cloacae enzyme by an assay using RO 13 9904, e.g. at a ratio to nitrocefin of about 0.001 1. In a more sophisticated form the above well plate method can be expanded so as to identify each of the 17 beta lactamases set out in Table 1. Spectrophotometric scanning at a wavelength of 486 nm of the wells, incubated at 370C for the assay, allows the detection of irreversible binding of the competing substrate.This is essential to distinguish K10317 from K1073 and helps to distinguish PSE 1 from PSE 4 using moxalactam or cefoxitin as competing substrates for the former and clavulanic acid for the latter pair of beta lactamases. This visual spectrophotometric embodiment of the visual method is illustrated in Example 9, in which up to 11 wells of an 8 x 12 microtitre plate are used for each assay. The visual and quantitative methods can, of course, be used in sequence if desired, the simple visual method with monitoring merely by eye being used for the routine identifications. Any sample which gives an ambiguous answer in the simple visual assay is put through a full visual spectrophotometric or quantitative assay. This technique is particularly useful if a bacterial extract produces a mixture of beta lactamases, if one of the rarer beta lactamases is suspected or if it is desired to distinguish between PSE 1 and 4, for example. Other techniques are usable in reducing the number of candidates to be distinguished by the visual method. For example, isoelectric focussing could be used. The test of the invention is a valuable adjunct to isoelectric focussing since many betalactamases have very similar isoelectric points and cannot be distinguished by isoelectric focussing alone. The assay can be carried out in any manner in which competition is produced between the chromogenic substrate and the other beta lactam substrate. Clearly, neither substrate must become exhausted during the assay and sufficient concentrations must be present to provide an excess of total substrate with respect to the capacity of the enzyme. Where an irreversibly binding beta lactam substrate is used, it is possible to pre incubate the substrate with the enzyme and then subsequently add a reversibly attaching chromogenic susbtrate preferably nitrocefin. Of course, in the pre incubation preliminary reaction stage, one must not add so much substrate that all available enzyme sites are consumed. RSAI values obtained after pre incubation will differ from those obtained when the nitrocefin is added initially only if irreversible binding has occurred seeExample 3 . There are various ways of proceeding when two or more beta lactam substrates are to be used for identification of the beta lactamase.In one such way, the second and any subsequent beta lactam substrate is chosen after considering the result of the previous assay. In other words, the choice of the second standard substrate would depend on the particular possibilities present when the relative affinity of the first standard substrate was determined, and, likewise, if a third standard substrate were needed, it would be chosen according to the affinity results for the first two. In a preferred way of proceeding, the second and a sufficient number of subsequent competing substrates are chosen in advance of the first assay, so that any unidentified beta lactamase is identifiable from the assays. In this way of proceeding, it is contemplated that a supply of, say, 4, 5, 6 or 7 competing substrates would be as many as is normally required to test for all the common betalactamase producing bacteria. One might wish to use more substrates, for example as many as 10 for distinguishing rarer beta lactamases as well as the commoner ones. A kit for use in the method of the invention comprises 1 one or more competing beta lactam substrates, e.g. from 1 to 10, preferably 3 to 8 in number, 2 the chromogenic substrate, e.g. nitrocefin, preferably 3 a member carrying a compilation of relative affinities and preferably also 4 one or more identified beta lactamases or beta lactamase producing bacterial cultures or culture extracts, to serve as controls for standardising or testing the assay. The kit could comprise pre prepared units, e.g. impregnated absorbent discs, each containing a mixture of known quantities of i one or more of the competing substrates with ii the chromogenic substrate. Normally a supply of the chromogenic substrate alone would also be required as part of the kit.Another possible form of the kit is pre prepared microtitre plates in which the mixture of competing and chromogenic substrate is placed in the wells. For the quantitative method, the chromogenic and competing substrates are used in at least 4 different ratios per assay.Therefore a convenient kit includes sets of mixtures of chromogenic and competing substrates in at least 4 different ratios per set, the competing substrate being different in each set of mixtures.For the visual method, the chromogenic and competing substrates are used in a fixed ratio in each assay although the same competing substrate might be used in a different ratio to the chromogenic substrate in a different assay. Therefore for this purpose the kit comprises at least two sets of a mixture of the chromogenic substrate with a competing substrate, which can be the same or different as in other sets Whether the competing substrates are supplied per se or in a mixture with e.g. nitrocefin, the substrates supplied will preferably be any of those which are effective to make all the distinctions in pairings 1 to 7 at least, and can be any of the sets of betalactams referred to above.They can be any of the specific sets or combinations of beta lactams set out above, omitting, of course, from consideration for the simple visual method those which depend on irreversible inhibition to make the particular distinction required. For the simple visual method cefoxitin will nearly always be supplied, preferably together with 2 cefotaxime, 3 cefamandole, cephradine or MK 0787, and 4 mecillinam. In the quantitative method cefoxitin, moxalactam, MK 0787, mecillinam,CP 45,899 and possibly cloxacillin are one valuable basis for a kit. The invention is very useful in identifying beta lactamases present in isolates obtained directly from patients. Patients suffering from a severe infection caused by gram negative bacteria are usually best treated by beta lactam therapy. When a patient fails to respond quickly to a beta lactam antibiotic, it is often necessary, very urgently, to discover whether he is producing a beta lactamase which is destroying that antibiotic. More practically, the object is to find out which antibiotics are likely to be successful in treating the patient. At present the hospital laboratory tests the isolate by sub culturing the bacteria on discs of a few candidate antibiotics, hoping that the bacteria will die on some of the antibiotic discs.The method takes routinely at least 24 hours from the beginning of the sub culture, by which time the patient s condition might have deteriotated irretrievably. It is limited as to the number of candidate antibiotics and by the use of a single concentration of antibiotic. The use of several different concentrations of each antibiotic, in so called break point tests, to determine the concentration which will inhibit growth of the culture, is better but still takes at least 24 hours. The present invention does not require a sub culture step and is therefore very much more rapid. It is possible to carry it out easily within one hour from the production of a primary culture and therefore can be used routinely to give results during the same working day. Further, the method of the invention has a built in adaptability, because it yields information about the best antibiotics to use to counter an infection caused by any beta lactamase producing bacterium. This means that it can be used to suggest treatment for infections caused by rare or even novel beta lactamases. A high RSAI value, for example, indicates that an antibiotic is likely to be effective against that particular beta lactamase. It is also possible to suggest combination therapy of the Augmentin type, using an irreversible inhibitor to tie up the beta lactamase followed by a beta lactam antibiotic. The method of the invention is also very useful in epidemiology.When an epidemic occurs in a hospital considerable detection is often needed to find the source or sources of infection. The first steps in the detection operation would involve determining how many patients, and in which wards, are suffering from infection by the same organism. Because the assay of the invention is so quick to perform and reliable, it is possible to identify beta lactamases from, say, 100 bacterial samples and thereby identify the extent to which a single organism is responsible for the epidemic. Another use of the invention is in environmental health, for identifying bacteria found in food or drink or places where food or drink is stored, displayed or consumed. The clinically significant beta lactamases present in most bacteria are constitutive and are located within the cell. A very few bacteria produce extracellular beta lactamase, but usually the quantities involved are small. Normally, therefore, the betalactamase has to be extracted from the cells for the purpose of the present invention. One preferred method comprises digesting a suspension of a bacterial cell culture with a cell wall weakening agent, preferably lysozyme, and subjecting the suspension to successive freezing and thawing and recovering liquid from the product, preferably by centrifuging and drawing off supernatant liquid. It has been found that a single freezing and thawing cycle suffices for ordinary bacterial cells. The freezing is preferably to a temperature of from 400C to 780C, most usually about 700C. Example 5 illustrates the procedure.The total time required for an assay using this method of extracting the betalactamase is 4 5 hours, compared with 36 hours or so using a conventional method of extraction. Example 6 describes an even more preferred method, currently considered to be the best mode of extraction for the purposes of this invention. This method takes about 20 minutes. Other methods of extracting beta lactamase from bacterial cells are described in Example 1 and in the paper by Simpson et al,Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy, 17, 929 1980 . The invention is illustrated by the following examples which refer to the accompanying drawings. In the drawings Figure 1 is a graph showing optical density plotted against time for the reaction of nitrocefin alone with TEM 2 beta lactamase enzyme, using a series of different concentrations of nitrocefin Figure 2 is a double reciprocal plot Lineweaver Burk graph using the results from Figure 1, in which the reciprocal of reaction velocity is plotted against the reciprocal of the concentration of nitrocefin Figure 3 is a graph showing optical density plotted against time for assays of the invention using nitrocefin, TEM 2 and various different concentrations of antibiotic ampicillin Figure 4 is a graph using the results from Figure 3, in which the hydrolysis of nitrocefin after 4.5 minutes is plotted against the concentration of antibiotic Figure 5 is a graph showing optical density plotted against time for assays of the invention using nitrocefin, TEM 2 and different concentrations of the antibiotic cefoxitin Figure 6 is a graph showing optical density plotted against time for assays for the invention using nitrocefin, TEM 2 and different concentrations of the heta lactamase irreversibly binding substrate clavulanic acid Figure 7 is two graphs drawn on the same co ordinates, the left hand graph being a repeat of Figure 6 and the right hand one a corresponding graph for an assay in which the TEM 2 enzyme was pre incubated with the beta lactam Figure 8 is a graph using the results from Figure 7 in which the hydrolysis of nitrocefin after 4.5 minutes is plotted against the concentration of clavulanic acid and Figure 9 is a graph similar to Figure 8 but with the antibiotic cloxacillin in place of clavulanic acid. Example 1Preparation of beta lactamases E. coli C9 was obtained from the E. coli Genetic Stock Centre,New Haven, Connecticut. The transmissible plasmid RP4 which codes for the TEM 2 beta lactamase, Datta et al., J. Bacteriol. 108, 1244 1249 1971 , was transferred into E. coli C9 by plate mating.For the preparation of beta lactamase extract 1 litre of E. coliC9 RP4 was grown to a stationary phase in Oxoid Nutrient broth medium at 37 0C with shaking, in a 3 litre flask. The periplasmic proteins of E. coli C9 RP4 were prepared from the culture using the tris EDTA extraction method of Levy Leive, J. Biol. Chem. 245, 548, 1970 . From 1 litre of cells 7 ml of tris EDTA periplasmic extract was obtained. This contained the TEM 2 bet an lactamase enzyme coded for by the plasmid RP4. For routine assay much smaller volumes of culture will be used.Hydrolysis of nitrocefin by enzyme The following mixture was prepared in a 1 cm light path spectrophotometer cuvette 890 microlitres of 10 mM sodium phosphate buffer of pH 7.0 prewarmed to 370C, and 100 microlitres of nitrocefin made up in 10 mM phosphate buffer of pH 7.0 at 500 micrograms ml. After temperature equilibration to 37 0C in the heated cuvette holder, 10 microlitres of a 1 in 10 dilution of the tris EDTA periplasmic extract diluted in 10 mM phosphate buffer of pH 7.0 was added. The change in optical density at a wavelength of 486 nm was recorded over a 5 minute period. The reference cuvette contained buffer and nitrocefin but not enzyme.Assay For each competition assay, a known amount of a beta lactam made up to 100 microlitres in 10 mM phosphate buffer pH 7.0, was substituted for an equivalent volume of buffer in the assay mixture.For each beta lactam a series of assays at least 4 was performed, using a different concentration. RESULTS Kinetics of nitrocefin cleavage by TEM 2 beta lactamase The effect of varying the concentration of nitrocefin NCF on the optical density at 486 nm is shown in Figure 1. A double reciprocal plot of this data is shown in Figure 2. The ordinate represents the reciprocal of reaction velocity optical density at 486 nm after 3 minutes reaction time . The abscissa represents the reciprocal of the initial concentration of nitrocefin enzyme substrate in mg ml. The Michaelis constant K of the enzyme m with respect to nitrocefin was calculated from the plot as 25 micrograms ml. In the assays, 50 micrograms ml of nitrocefin was used in the assay mixture.That the beta lactamase enzyme T91 2, coded for by the RP4 plasmid, was present was confirmed by substituting in the assay 10 microlitres of undiluted, or a 1 in 10 dilution, of the tris EDTA periplasmic extract of E. coli C9 there was no change in the optical density at 486 nm during the time of the assay with this preparation.Assay for beta lactam antibiotics Beta lactam antibiotics which bind to the TEM 2 enzyme compete with nitrocefin in the assay. The effect of varying concentrations of ampicillin AMP on the cleavage hydrolysis of nitrocefin is shown in Figure 3. From a plot of nitrocefin cleavage against concentration of ampicillin one can determine the ampicillin concentration which results in 50 inhibition of the TEM 2 enzyme activity Figure 4 . This concentration of ampicillin is a direct estimate of the relative affinity of the TEM 2 enzyme for ampicillin.The Relative Substrate Affinity Index RSAI , which is the ratio of the concentration of beta lactam giving 50 inhibition of nitrocefin cleavage 65 micrograms ml to the concentration of nitrocefin used in the assay 50 micrograms ml was calculated.The RSAI value was therefore 1.3. Example 2 The effect of competition by beta lactam substrates on the kinetics of nitrocefin cleavage also yields information on the mechanism of interaction between the antibiotic and the betalactamase. Most of the beta lactam substrates tested against the TEM 2 enzyme show a similar pattern of inhibition to that of ampicillin, i.e. increasing the concentration of beta lactam reduces the rate of nitrocefin cleavage shown as a reduced slope of the optical density value but the plots are still linear, as shown in Figure 3. This is characteristic of competitive inhibition. In contrast when cefoxitin CEF was substituted for ampicillin, it was found that the rate of cleavage hydrolysis of nitrocefin diminished with time. This is shown in Figure 5. It indicates that cefoxitin undergoes irreversible binding to the enzyme. Example 3 Example 2 was repeated, substituting clavulanic acid for cefoxitin. Similar kinetics were also obtained with clavulanic acid, although at much lower concentrations of clavulanic acid see Figure 6 . The assay was repeated, with the variation that the enzyme was pre incubated with clavulanic acid for 5 minutes at 37 0C. This resulted in a drastic reduction in the rate of cleavage of the nitrocefin substrate. This is shown in Figure 7 compare especially the plot for 100 ng ml of clavulanic acid a at the left hand side, where there was no pre incubation and b at the right hand side, with pre incubation . In Figure 8, nitrocefin cleavage is plotted against clavulanic acid concentration for the assays without A and with B pre incubation. The nitrocefin cleavage is taken from the values in Figure 7 after 4.5 minutes. It will be seen that the respective RSAI values are A 0.005 and B 0.0004. Example 4 Example 3 was repeated using cloxacillin in place of clavulanic acid. The results are plotted in Figure 9 similarly toFigure 8, curve A representing the ordinary assay and B the assay with the 5 minute pre incubation. There is little difference in the two curves. Cloxacillin clearly does not undergo irreversible binding. Example 5 This example describes the preferred, freeze thaw weaken cell walls, technique of extracting beta lactamase from cells. A culture of the bacterium E. coli C9 RP4 was grown at 370C in nutrient broth. One ml volumes of the culture were centrifuged and the supernatant discarded. The pellet remaining was emulsified by whirlmixing and then 100 microlitres of a solution containing 400 micrograms of lysozyme and 50 mM in glucose, 10 mM in cyclohexane diamine tetracetate and 5 mM in Tris HCl, to give pH 8.0, was added to the suspension. The digestion with the lysozyme solution was allowed to proceed at 40C for 30 minutes. The suspension was then frozen at 700C for 10 minutes and thawed at 37 0C for 2 minutes. One freeze thaw cycle was found to be sufficient. The debris was removed by centrifuging. The supernatant liquid contained the desired beta lactamase enzyme. The above technique was repeated for other bacteria, viz Klebsiella aerogenes, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Enterobacter cloacae, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Example 6 This example describes another preferred technique of extracting beta lactamase from cells, based on the work of Choma andYamazaki in the Canadian Journal of Microbiology 27, 547 1981 .Cultures are centrifuged at 9,000 rpm for 10 minutes and the cell pellets resuspended in one tenth the original volume of a solution of 1 weight volume phenethyl alcohol in 10 mM phosphate buffer at pH 7.0. After gentle shaking at 200C for 10 minutes the cell suspension was spun at 9,000 rpm for 10 minutes. The supernatant liquid was removed. It contained more than 90 of the betalactamase in the original culture. Example 7 This example described an actual identification of an unknown unidentified beta lactamase. A culture of gram negative bacteria was isolated from a river. The cells of a sample were extracted by the method of Example 6. The assay was carried out as described in Example 1 and gave RSAI values of 0.008 with cefoxitin and 0.0001 showed irreversible inhibition with moxalactam.Either result on its own indicates Enterobacter cloacae. Another sample of the culture was sent to a Public Health microbiology laboratory for independent identification. Their tests confirmed the identification. Example 8 This example describes a visual test for identifying or assisting in the identification of the 11 commonly encountered beta lactamases plus the chromosomally coded E. cloacae andPseudomonas aeruginosa ones. Nitrocef in 25 micrograms was placed in six wells of a microtitre dish for each enzyme to be assayed. The sixth well is the control and competing beta lactams at the concentrations shown in Table 2 below were placed in wells 1 to 5. Twenty microlitre volumes of enzyme extract were added to all six wells and the red colour developed scored after 3 minutes at room temperature about 20 C .The scoring system was Intensity of red colour similar to the control Intensity of red colour significantly less than the control Little red colour developed This simple rapid screening system is aided by colour photographs of the range of red colours associated with the scoring system. It is capable of automation with spectrophotometer scanning of the wells and microprocessor interpretation of the results to give a print out of the beta lactamase identification. The use of sensitive spectrophotometer scanning instead of a visual estimation of the red colour widens the range of beta lactams capable of being used to discriminate beta lactamases, due to the extra sensitivity of detection. This simple system positively identifies SHV 1, HMS 1, OXA 1,E. cloacae, PSE 2, and PSE 3. It does not discriminate betweenOXA 2, OXA 3 and Pseudomonas aeruginosa beta lactamases although it does identify them from all the others. Similarly it does not discriminate PSE 1 from PSE 4. However, this is possible using the more sensitive detection offered by spectrophotometer scanning or by the more sophisticated test in up to 11 wells described inExample 9. It is not possible or necessary to discriminate the virtually identical TEM 1 and TEM 2 enzymes.Table 2 Scores in 6 well visual test Well Beta lactam A Cefoxitin 20 1 Ratio to nitrocefin B Cefotaxime 100 1 C Cefamandole 1 1 Very red D Mecillinam 20 1 Red E Cefoxitin 200 1 Yellow A B C D EEnzyme 1. TEM 1 2. TEM 2 3. SHV 1 Table 2 Scores in 6 well visual test continued A B C D E 4. HMS 1 5. OXA 1 6. OXA 2 7. OXA 3 8. E. cloacae 10. PSE 1 11. PSE 2 12. PSE 3 13. PSE 4 14.Ps AMP Chromosomal Example 9 This example illustrates the visual spectrophotometric method, suitable for use in an 8 x 12 well microtitre plate. It includes the first 4 tests A D as described in Example 8, a different test E , plus up to 5 optional further tests. A control well K containing nitrocefin alone is used when no pre screening is done. The assay conditions are as described in Example 8, except that the temperature is 37 C, and spectrophotometric scanning at 486 nm. is used to detect irreversible inhibition. Table 3 shows one form of the method. Notes on Table 3 suggest alternative substrates and Table 4 shows a method using these alternatives.In each case, the ratios used or suggested are approximate guides only and can be varied considerably depending, for example, on the temperature used for assay, and whether the protocol of distinguishing is varied.Table 3 Scores in an ll well visual assay carried out with the aid of spectrophotometric scanning to detect irreversible inhibition Well Beta lactam A Cefoxitin 20 1 Ratio to nitrocefin B Cefotaxime 100 1 C Cefamandole 1 1 D Mecillinam 20 1 Very red E Moxalactam 100 1 2 Red Table 3 continued F Moxalactam 0.01 1 Yellow G Cloxacillin 1 1 Irreversible H Clavulanic acid 0.004 1 inhibition I Cefoxitin 200 1 J RO 13 9904 0.001 1 A B C D E F G H I JEnzyme 1. TEM 1 2. TEM 2 3. SHV 1 4.HMS 1 5. OXA 1 6. OXA 2 7. OXA 3 8. E. cloacae 9. SNU 35 10. PSE 1 11. PSE 2 12. PSE 3 13. PSE 4 14. Ps. AMP 15. K10317 16. K1073 17. K17 Notes on Table 3Well A. Cefoxitin, together with cloxacillin in well G, distinguishes OXA 1 from OXA 2. Alternatives are SQ 14,359 10 1 or MK 0787 0.1 1.Well B. Cefotaxime, together with cloxacillin in well G, helps to identify 1 PSE 2 and PSE 3. Cefotaxime also distinguishes 2 TEM 1, TEM 2, SHV 1, K10317 and K 1073 from all the others. Alternatives for 1 are CP 45,899 1 1 or mecillinam 200 1, and for 2 are moxalactam 20 1 or RO 13 9904 100 1. Well C. Cefamandole distinguishes 1 PSE 1 and PSE 4 from PSE 2 and PSE 3 and 2 E. cloacae and SNU 35 from the Ps. aerug. chromosomal enzyme Ps. AMP . Alternatives for 1 are cephradine 20 1 or MK 0787 5 1 and for 2 mecillinam 20 1.Well D. Mecillinam distinguishes 1 E. cloacae and SNU 35 from Ps. AMP. It also distinguishes very clearly 2 between HMS 1 and OXA 1. Alternatives for 1 are cefamandole 1 1 and for 2 ceftazidime 500 1.Well E. Moxalactam at this high concentration distinguishes SHV 1 and K1073 from all the others, including K 10317.Well F. Moxalactam at this low concentration identifies all the chromosomal enzymes. Alternatives are cloxacillin 0.001 1, cefotaxime 0.01 1 and SQ 14,359 0.01 1. Well G. Cloxacillin distinguishes 1 OXA 2 from OXA 3, 2 PSE 2 from PSE 3 and 3 HMS 1 from OXA i. Alter natives are 1 cefoxitin 0.01 1 or cefuroxime 0.1 1, 2 CP 45,899 1 1 or mecillinam 200 1 and 3 ceftazidime 250 1. As regards distinction 3 the well A test will often help, especially if SQ 14,359 is used.Well H. Clavulanic acid distinguishes PSE 1 from PSE 4. CP 45,899 at 0.015 1 is an alternative.Well I. Cefoxitin at a low concentration reinforces the identifications of SHV 1 and K 1073 given by well E.Well J. RO 13 9904 distinguishes E. cloacae from SNU 35.Each alternative does not necessarily perfectly replace the hetalactam of Table 3, but all other beta lactams being as in Table 3, will not confuse the identification which is the primary role of the beta lactam. However, most of the alternatives can be used together with any other alternative. This is illustrated byTable 4 where 7 of the 10 wells are occupied by alternatives.Combinations of alternatives can be worked out from RSAI values inTable 1. Table 4 Scores in another li well visual assay carried out with the aid of spectrophotometric scanning to detect irreversible inhibition Well Beta lactam A SQ 14,359 10 1 Ratio to nitrocefin B Moxalactam 20 1 C Cephradine 20 1 D Ceftazidime 500 1 E Moxalactam 100 1 F Cloxacillin 0.001 1 G Cefoxitin 0.01 1 H CP 45,899 1 1 I Clavulanic acid 0.004 1 J Cefoxitin 200 1 A B C D E F G H I J Enzyme 1. TEM 1 2. TEM 2 3. SHV 1 4. HMS 1 5. OXA 1 6. OXA 2 7. OXA 3 8.E. cloacae 9. SNU 35 10. PSE 1 11. PSE 2 12. PSE 3 13. PSE 4 14. Ps. AMP 15. K10317 16. K1073 17. K17 Example 10This example illustrates use of an alternative chromogenic substrate PADAC . PADAC in aqueous solution lOmM phosphate buffer pH 7.0 is a deep violet colour absorbing strongly at 570 nm. On cleavage it is said to go yellow and generate a new absorption maximum at 465 nm.However, PADAC cleavage at 465 nm is very slow and cannot be monitored in a competition assay. On the other hand, using a 1 ml reaction volume of PADAC 50 micrograms , enzyme and buffer lOmM phosphate pH 7.0 , cleavage can readily be followed by monitoring the fall in absorption at 570 nm. The initial optical density at 570 nm was set at 1.0, the enzyme was added and the reaction was followed over a 3 4 minute period. The control incubation results in a fall in OD570 to about 0.1 during that time. The effect of competing beta lactams was then performed as for nitrocefin, and the RSAI values determined. Only one betalactam, cefoxitin, was tested, this being sufficient to show that PADAC is usable but not as convenient as nitrocefin. The disadvantages of PADAC are a there was no cleavage of PADAC by OXA 1, yet the same enzyme preparation cleaved nitrocefin b more enzyme has to be used than in the nitrocefin assay, i.e. PADAC is less sensitive and c The assay cannot be used in a simple visual test a spectro photometer is needed. TABLE 5 RSAI VALUES PADAC Beta lactamase Cefoxitin 1. TEM 1 15 2. TEM 2 18 3. SHV 1 140 4. HMS 1 55 5. OXA 1 No reaction 6. OXA 2 0.1 7. OXA 3 0.00001 10. PSE 1 25 11. PSE 2 6 Table 5 continued Beta lactamase Cefoxitin 13. PSE 4 46 14. Ps AMP 0.00002 15. K10317 320 16. K1073 112 17. K17 0.8