# Data processor systems.

## Abstract
A data processing system comprises a plurality of host processors 12 connected to a peripheral data storage subsystem 10 including a plurality of peripheral storage devices 13 and a control unit 11 . The peripheral device subsystem enables its peripheral devices to operate asynchronously with respect to attached host precessors through the use of a managed buffer 15 . In a preferred mode of operation, all data of each record being transferred can be resident in a buffer before transfer to a device. For a host processor to device write transfer, receipt of such a record by the buffer results in the subsystem signalling to the host processor a completion of a transfer to an addressed device even though the device has received none or only part of the data. In a tape write mode, recording data in a peripheral device, such as a tape recorder, completion of recording is not signalled until after the buffer has transferred the data to the recorder. In the event allocatable buffer space is insufficient to enable operations in the buffer or tape write modes, the subsystem automatically switches to a synchronous mode of data transfer in which data signals are simultaneously transferred between the buffer and the host processor and the peripheral device. A host SYNCHRONIZE command synchronizes buffer operations to host operations. Data to be recorded in a peripheral device and resident in the buffer can be retrieved by a host via a READ BUFFER command. Errors in the subsystem are reported even when delayed after completion of host operations. Additional mode controls are also disclosed.