# Tape cassette.

## Abstract
A tape cassette for a magnetic recording and or repro ducing apparatus has at least one reel contained in a housing 11 formed with an opening 15 through which a tape wound on a reel can be withdrawn from the cassette housing 11 for recording of signals thereon or reproducing the signals therefrom, and a lid 20 is provided to move between a closed position covering the housing opening 15 and an opened position exposing the housing opening 15 . The lid 20 is pivoted on the housing 11 by means of a pair of pins 21, 22 which are formed on ear portions 20a directed rearwardly from opposite ends of the lid 20 and a pair of arcuated grooves 23, 24 receiving the pair of pins 21, 22 respectively, and which are formed on side wall 11d of the housing 11 .

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A tape cassette comprising a reel 12, 13 having a tape 14 wound thereon, a housing 11 for containing said reel therein, said housing 11 having an opening 15 permitting the passage of said tape 14 therethrough, characterized in a lid 20 pivoted on said housing 11 for movement between a closed position covering said opening 15 and an opened position exposing said opening 15 , a pivotal connection of said lid 20 with said housing 11 comprising a pair of pins 21, 22 and a pair of arcuated grooves 23, 24 receiving said pair of pins 21, 22 respectively. 2. A tape cassette according to claim 1, characterized in that said pair of pins 21, 22 are respectively formed on ear portions 20a, 20b which is directed rearwardly from opposite ends of said lid 20 and said pair of arcuated grooves 23, 24 are respectively formed on side walls lid of said housing 11 . 3. A tape cassette according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that said pair of arcuated grooves 23, 24 are formed such that during movement of said lid 20 from said closed position to said opened position one 22 of said pair of pins 21, 22 is rotated on another 21 of said pair of pins 21, 22 as rotating center and during further movement of said lid 20 said another 21 of the pair of axis pins 21, 22 is rotated on said one 22 of the pair of pins 21, 22 as rotating center. 4. A tape cassette according to claim 2 or 3, characterized in that said pivotal connection further comprises a spring 30 mounted on a fixed pin 32 which is formed on said side wall lid of the housing 11 , free ends 30 ,30 of said spring 30 engaging with said pair of pins 21b, 22b . 5. A tape cassette according to claim 2 or 3, characterized in that said pivotal connection further comprises a spring 31 mounted on one 21b of said pair of pins 21b, 22b , free ends 31 , 31 of said spring 31 engaging with another 22b of said pair of pins 21b, 22b and a fixed pin 33 which is formed on said side wall 11d of the housing 11 .

## Description
TAPE CASSETTEThe present invention relates generally to a tape cassette for magnetic recording and or reproducing apparatus such as video tape recorder or various other data processing devices and more particularly is directed to a tape cassette having a lid which is movable between a closed position covering an opening formed on front side of the cassette and an opened position exposing the opening.Figs. 1A and 1B show a conventional tape cassette for a video tape recorder. An opening 2 is formed on front sidesurface of a tape cassette 1. The cassette is provided with a lid 3 which includes ear portions 3 directed rearwardly from the opposite ends of front portion thereof. The ear portion 3 of the lid 3 are formed with inwardly directed pins 4 engageable in respective apertures or recesses in wall end portions of side walls of cassette housing so as to mount the lid 3 pivotally on the cassette housing for movement between a closed position covering the housing opening 2, as shown in Fig. 1A, and an opening position exposing the opening 2, as shown in Fig. 1B. However, with a structure for rotating the lid 3 about the pins 4, a projecting portion A of the lid 3 which extends from the front end of the tape cassette 1 and projecting portion B which extends from the upper end of the tape cassette 1 becomes relatively large when the lid 3 is rotated from the closed position to the opened position. For loading the tape cassette 1 of this type into the video tape recorder, freespace for the projecting portions A and B must be formed on the main body side of the video tape recorder, thus lowering the space factor of the main body. Thus, a compact video tape recorder cannot be manufactured owing to a low space factor.Accordingly, an object of this invention is to provide a tape cassette free from the above described disadvantages.Another object of the invention is to provide a tape cassette in which the projecting portions of the lid which extend from the front and upper sides of the cassette housing in its closed position can be extremely reduced.In accordance with an aspect of this invention, a tape cassette comprises a reel having a tape wound thereon, a housing for containing the reel therein and which has an opening permitting the passage of the tape therethrough, and a lid for moving between a closed position covering the opening and an opened position exposing the opening, the lid being pivotally mounted on the cassette housing by means of a pair of pins which are formed an ear portions directed rearwardly from opposite ends of the lid and a pair of arc shaped grooves re ceiving the pair of pins, respectively, and which are formed on side walls of the housing.The above, and other objects, features and advantages of the invention, will be apparent in the following detailed description of illustrative embodiments of the invention which is to be read in connection with the accompanying drawings wherein the same reference numerals are used to identify the same parts in the several views.Figs. 1A and 1B are side views of the main part of a conventional tape cassette Fig. 2 is a plan view of the overall structure of the tape cassette according to this invention Fig. 3 is an enlarged perspective view of the main part of the tape cassette according to this invention Figs. 4A to 4C are enlarged side views of the cassette of Fig. 2 for explaining the opening operation of a lid andFigs. 5A and 5B are enlarged perspective views which show a mounting of lid on the cassette.A tape cassette according to one embodiment of the present invention will be described with reference toFigs. 2 to 5B in which the present invention is applied to a tape cassette for a video tape recorder.A pair of tape reels 12 and 13 are rotatably housed in a tape cassette 11 formed by a synthetic resin. Both ends of a magnetic tape 14 are attached to the tape reels 12 and 13 and the magnetic tape 11 is wound around the tape reels 12 and 13. An opening 15 is formed in a front sidesurface lia of the tape cassette 11. The magnetic tape 14 is guided by a pair of guide pins 16 and 17 and extended along the opening 15. A cut off portion 18 which communicates with the opening 15 is formed in a bottom surface lib of the tape cassette 11.The cassette 11 further comprises a lid 20 which is pivoted on the cassette housing and which is adapted, in a closed position, to close or cover the opening 15 of the cassette 11. The lid 20 is shown to include a front portion covering the opening and ears 20a and 20b directed rearwardly from the opposite ends of the front portion to fit into the recesses defined outside of end portions of side walls 11d and thus lie flush with the outer surfaces of such side walls, as shown in Fig. 2.The ears 20a and 20b at the opposite ends of the lid 20 are formed with a pair of inwardly directed pins 21 and 22 which are engageable in respective arcuated grooves 23 and 24 formed in wall end portions of the side walls lid of the cassette housing so as to mount the lid 20 for movement between the closed position and the opened position. As specifically shown inFigs. 4A to 4C, the pair of pins 21 and 22 are mounted on the ear 20a with a predetermined distance a therebetween. On the other hand, the pair of arcuated grooves 23 and 24 are formed with radius b and c, respectively, which are the same length as the distance a. It should be noted that a center of the arcuated groove 24 is selected to be at rearward end of the groove 23 and a center of the arcuated groove 23 at upperward end of the groove 24.With the tape cassette 11 of the above structure, the lid 20 is urged by a spring 30 or 31 Fig. 5A or 5B in the direction indicated by an arrow d in Fig. 4A and the opening 15 is closed. In this closed position,when the rotating force is applied to the lid 20 in the direction indicated by the arrow d in Fig. 4B against the resilient force of the spring, the lid 20 is rotated about the pin 21 through a certain angle in the direction indicated by the arrow d. On the other hand, the pin 22 is moved within the arcuated groove 24. As shown in Fig. 4B, when the pin 22 comes in contact with the upperward end 24a of the arcuated groove 24 and stops, the lid 29 is then rotated sequentially about the pin 22 in the same direction indicated by the arrow d, as shown in Fig. 4C. Thus, the pin 21 moves within the arcuated groove 23. In summary, the lid 20 is continuously moved by the weight balance thereof and the frictional force between the arcuated grooves 23 and 24 and the pins 21 and 22 in the direction indicated by the arrow d upward while changing the rotating fulcrum from the pin 21 to the pin 22.According to the lid 20 wherein the fulcrum is se quentially moved from one pin to the other pin, a projecting portion A of the lid 20 which extends from the front surface of the tape cassette 11 and a projecting portion B which extends from the upper surface of the tape cassette 11 are greatly decreased as compared with the projecting portions A and B of the conventional tape cassette 11 as shown in Fig. 1B.As shown in Figs. 5A and 5B, springs 30 and 31 are provided so that the lid 20 is biased in the direction indicated in arrow d Fig. 4A . Particularly, in Fig.5A, the coiled spring 30 is mounted on a pin 32 which is formed on inner side of the side wall lid of the cassette. Free ends 30 and 30 of the coiled spring 30 engage with the pair of pins 21b and 22b from insides thereof and the ends of the spring 30 are urged against the pins 21b and 22 b in a direction remote from each other. Accordingly, the lid 20 is normally biased by the spring 30 to its closed position.On the other hand, in Fig. 5B, the spring 31 is mounted on the pin 21b which is formed the ear portion 20b of the lid 20. Free ends 31 and 31 of the spring 31 respectively engage with the pin 22b and a pin 33 which is formed on inner side of the side wall lid of the cassette. The end 31 of the spring 31 is urged against the pin 22b in lower direction, so that the lid 20 is also biased by the spring 31 to its closed position.The present invention is not limited to the particular embodiment described above. The present invention may be applied to a tape cassette for various magnetic recording and or reproducing apparatus other than the video tape recorder and for various other data processing devices. In the above embodiment, the two pins 21 and 22 are formed on the side of the lid 20, while the two arcuated grooves 23 and 24 are formed in the tape cassette 11. This arrangement may be reversed. Further, the pin 21 and the arcuated groove 24 may be formed on the side of the lid 20, while the pin 22 and the arcuated groove 23 are formed on the side of the tape cassette 11.Although illustrative embodiments of the invention have been described in detail herein with reference to the accompanying drawings, it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to such precise embodiments, and that various changes and modifications may be effected therein by one skilled in the art without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention as defined in the appended claims.