# Substituted biphenyl compounds for use as a medicament.

## Abstract
2 4 Substitutedphenyl 2 benzoic acid derivatives, methods for their preparation, pharmaceutical formulations containing the compounds and the use thereof in the reduction or control of blood lipids in animals, including man, are disclosed. The preferred compound is 2 4 trifluoro methylphenyl benzoic acid, which may be administered to man in a dose of about 4 mg kg bodyweight per day.

## Claims
1. A compound of the formula I Ar1 Ar2 I wherein Ar1 is selected fromEMI22.1 Ar2 is selected fromEMI22.2 and R is selected from C15 alkyl, halogen, perhalo C1 4 alkyl, C14 alkoxy, phenyl, C1 4 acyl, C1 6 alkoxycarbonyl, amino or hydroxy, and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof for use in the treatment of a mammal, including man, by therapy. 2. A compound of formula I as claimed in claim 1 for use in the therapy of a condition in which the underlying atielogy is associated with elevated blood lipid levels. 3. A compound of formula I as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 which has the formula IA or IB EMI23.1 wherein R is as defined in claim 1. 4. A compound of formula I as claimed in anyone of claims 1 to 3 whereinR is selected from C15 alkyl, halogen, C14, alkoxy, phenyl or trihalomethyl. 5. A compound of formula I as claimed in claim 1 wherein R is selected from C25 alkyl or trihalomethyl. 6. A compound of formula I as claimed in anyone of claims 1 to 5 wherein the compound of formula I is 2 4 trifluoromethylphenyl benzoic acid. 7. A pharmaceutical formulation comprising a compound of formula I as defined in anyone of claims 1 to 6 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier therefor. 8. A compound of the formula II Ar7 Ar8 11 in which Ar7 is selected fromEMI24.1 Ar8 is selected fromEMI24.2 EMI24.3 and R1 is C25 alkyl, perfluoro C14 alkyl, phenyl and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. 9. A compound of formula II as claimed in claim 8, which compound has the formula IIA or IIB EMI24.4 wherein R1 is as defined in claim 8. 10. 2 4 Trifluoromethy Iphenyl benzoic acid 2 4 Ethylphenyl benzoic acid 2 4 isoPropylphenyl benzoic acid 2 4 n Bu tylphenyl benzo ic acid 2 4 t Butylphenyl benzoic acid 2 4 Biphenyl benzoic acid 14 Trifluoromethy lphenyl 2 naphthoic acid 1 4 Ethylphenyl 2 naphthoic acid 2 2 Naphthyl benzoic acid. 11. A method for the preparation of a compound of formula I as defined in claim 1 which method comporises a conversion, to a compound of formula I , of a compound of formula III Arl Ar3 III wherein Ar1 is as defined in claim 1 Ar3 isEMI25.1 EMI25.2 and Z is a protected carboxylic acid group or a carboxylic acid group precursor b reduction of a compound of formula 1111 Ar4 Ar2 VIII wherein Ar2 is as defined in claim 1 Ar4 isEMI26.1 Y is N 2 and R is as defined in claim 1 c Selective oxidation of a compound of formula IX Ar1 Ar5 IX wherein Ar1 is as defined in claim 1 Ar5 isEMI26.2 and R is C14 alkyl or hydrogen or d Reaction of a compound of formula XI Ar1 Ar9 XI in which Ar1 is as defined above and Ar9 isEMI27.1 A is Mg X were X is halogen with carbon dioxide. 12 A method as claimed in claim 11 where the compound of formula I is a compound of formula II as defined in anyone of claims 8 to 10.

## Description
SUBSTITUTED BIPHENYL COMPOUNDSThe present invention relates to derivatives of benzoic acid, to pharmaceutical formulations containing them, to processes for their preparation and to the use thereof in human and veterinary medicine. More specifically the invention relates to 2 substituted phenyl benzoic acids and their use in the control or lowering of blood lipids.Atherosclerosis is a pathological condition which is a major cause of the occlusive vascular diseases resulting in myocardial infarction and stroke.This condition is associated with a deposition of blood lipids in the wall of major arteries and is known to occur more frequently in subjects whose blood lipids levels are elevated from established norms. The distribution of lipids in the various lipoprotein components of blood determines the degree of risk benefit of these materials. High levels of cholesterol in the low and very low density lipoprotein are associated with enhanced risk of atherosclerotic coronary artery disease while high levels of the highdensity lipoprotein cholesterol of are associated with reduced risks of this disease. Elevation in blood triglyceride levels has also been implicated as a factor which increases the risk of developing these vascular diseases.The strong association between the elevation of specific components of blood lipids and these major cardiovascular diseases has led to attempts to control blood lipid levels by management of diet and through drug intervention. It has been found that certain compounds, those of formula I below, are effective in reducing the amount of these lipoprotein components in blood which have been associated with atherosclerosis.The invention accordingly provides, in a first aspect, compounds of formula I below, together with pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof for use in human and veterinary medicine.Compounds of formula I are Arl Ar2 I wherein Arl is selected fromEMI2.1 Ar2 is selected fromEMI2.2 and R is selected from C1 5 alkyl, halogen, perhalo C1 4alkyl, such as trihalomethyl ,C1 4alkoxy, phenyl, C1 4acyl, C1 6alkoxy carbonyl, amino or hydroxy, and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.Preferred compounds within the scope of formula I are those of formula IA or IB EMI2.3 wherein R is as defined above Preferably R is selected from C1 5alkyl, halogen, Cl ,alkoxy phenyl or trihalomethyl. In particular compounds in which R is selected from C2 5alkyl or trihalomethyl have been found to have activity of or greater than the standard anti lipidemic compound clofibrate.Specific compounds of formula I include 2 4 Trifluoromethy lphenyl benzoic acid 2 4 Methylphenyl benzoic acid 2 4 Ethylphenyl benzoic acid 2 4 iso Propylphenyl benzoic acid 2 4 n Butylphenyl benzoic acid 2 4 Fluorophenyl benzoic acid 2 4 Bromophenyl benzoic acid 2 4 Chlorophenyl benzoic acid 2 4 Methoxyphenyl benzoic acid 2 4 Biphenyl benzoic acid.2 2 Naphthyl benzoic acid 1 4 Ethylphenyl 2 naphthoic acid and 1 4 Trifluoromethy lphenyl 2 naphthoic acid.The most preferred compound of formula I is 2 4 trifluoromethylpheny ben zoic acid. Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts include, for example, those derived from the alkali metals such as sodium or potassium or alkaline earth metals such as calcium or magnesium and ammonium salts such as NR wherein R is hydrogen or C14alkyl, eg NH4 . Certain of the compounds of formula I have been genericly disclosed in the literature US Patent No. 4,242,121 and a number of the compounds specifically disclosed, see for example J.Chem. Soc. C , 1968, 848 et. seq.However, there was no teaching or suggestion that the compounds exhibited pharmacological activity.The compounds of formula I are useful in the treatment or prophylaxis of any condition in which the underlying atieology is associated with elevated blood lipid levels. Thus the compounds of formula I are useful in the treatment or prophylaxis of atherosclerosis, occlusive vascular diseases and for the reduction or control of levels of blood lipids such as the triglycerides and cholesterol.The amount of active compound required for use in the above conditions will vary both with the route of administration, the condition under treatment and the mammal undergoing treatment, and is ultimately at the discretion of the physician. A suitable oral dose of the active compound for a mammal is in the range of from 1 to 40 mg per kilogram body weight per day preferably in the range of 2 to 10 mg kg bodyweight, a typical dose for a human recipient being about 4 mg kg bodyweight per day.The desired dose is preferably presented as from one to three sub doses administered at appropriate intervals throughout the day. Where two sub doses are employed, each will preferably lie in the range of from 1 to 100 mg kg body weight a typical sub dose for a human recipient being about 2 mg kg bodyweight.While it is possible that the compounds of formula I may be administered as the raw chemical it is preferable to present the active ingredient as a pharmaceutical or veterinary formulation.Pharmaceutical formulations comprise the active compounds together with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers therefor and optionally other therapeutic and or prophylactic ingredients. The carrier s must be acceptable in the sense of being compatible with the other ingredients of the formula and not deleterious to the recipient thereof.The invention thus provides in a further aspect a pharmaceutical formulation comprising a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier therefor. The active compound s may conveniently be presented as a pharmaceutical formulation in unit dosage form. A convenient unit dose formulation contains the active ingredient compound s in an amount of from 1 mg to 10 mg.Pharmaceutical formulations include those suitable for oral, rectal or parenteral including intramuscular and intravenous administration, although oral is the preferred route. The formulations may, where appropriate, be conveniently presented in discrete dosage units and may be prepared by any of the methods well known in the art of pharmacy. All methods include the step of bringing into association the active compound with liquid carriers or finely divided solid carriers of both and then, if necessary, shaping the product into the desired formulation.There is thus provided in a further aspect a method for the preparation of a pharmaceutical formulation comprising a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof together with a pharmacetically acceptable carrier there for, which method comprises bringing into association the active compound of formula I and the carrier therefor.Pharmaceutical formulations suitable for oral administration wherein the carrier is a solid are most preferably presented as unit dose formulations such as boluses, capsules, cachets ot tablets each containing a predetermined amount of the active ingredient. A tablet may be made by compression or moulding, optionally with one or more accessory ingredients. Compressed tablets may be prepared by compressing in a suitable machine the active compound in a free flowing form such as a powder or granules optionally mixed with a binder, lubricant, inert diluent, lubricating, surface active or dispersing agent. Moulded tablets may be made by moulding an inert liquid diluent. Tablets may be optionally coated and, if uncoated, may be optionally scored. Capsules may be prepared by filling the active compound, either alone or in admixture with one or more accessory ingredients, into the capsule cases and then sealing them in the usual manner. Cachets are analogous to capsules wherein the active ingredient together with any accessory ingredient s is sealed in a rice paper envelope.Pharmaceutical formulations suitable for oral administration wherein the carrier is a liquid may be presented as a solution or a suspension in an aqueous liquid or a non aqueous liquid, or as an oil in water or water in oil liquid emulsion. Pharmaceutical formulations suitable for rectal administration wherein the carrier is a solid are most preferably presented as unit dose suppositories.Suitable carriers include cocoa butter and other materials commonly used in the art, and the suppositories may be conveniently formed by admixture of the active compound with the softened or melted carrier s followed by chilling and shaping in moulds.Pharmaceutical formulations suitable for parenteral administration include sterile solutions or suspensions of the active compound in aqueous or oleaginous vehicles. Such preparations are conveniently presented in unit dose or multidose containers which are sealed after introduction of the formulation until required for use.It should be understood that in addition to the aforementioned carrier ingredients the pharamceutical formulations described above may include, as appropriate, one or more additional carrier ingredients such as diluents, buffers, flavouring agents, binders, surface active agents, thickeners, lubricants, preservatives including anti oxidants and the like, and substances included for the purpose of rendering the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended recipient.Compounds of formula I and their salts may be prepared by any method well known in the art for preparation of compounds of analogous structure.For example, Compounds of formula I may be prepared from a compound of formula III Ar1 Ar3 III wherein Ar1 is as defined in formula I above Ar3 isEMI6.1 and Z is a protected carboxylic acid group or a precursor of a carboxylic acid group, for example an ester, orthoester, amide, protected aldehyde, an oxazoline residue, for exampleEMI7.1 by conversion of the group Z to the group COOH by appropriate means, for example hydrolysis or oxidation.Compounds of formula III may be prepared by methods known in the art for the preparation of such compounds. Additionally compounds of formula III may be prepared by reaction of a compounds of formula IV with a compound of formula V Ar3 M IV Ar1 1 V wherein M is a metal, such as lithium or MgX, X is halogen especially chloro or bromo and Ar1 and Ar3 are as defined above.The compounds of formula III wherein Z is an oxazoline residue may be prepared by reaction of a compound of formula VI with a compound of formula VII Ar1 M VI H3 CO Ar3 VII wherein M and Ar1 are as defined above, and Ar3 is as defined above except that Z is inly oxazoline.Compounds of formula IV or formula VI are prepared from the corresponding halo, e.g. bromo, compound by the well known method of preparingGrignard reagents. The compound of formula VII is prepared from the corresponding acid by the method of Meyers et al., JACS, 97, 7383 1975 . Compounds of formula I may also be prepared by reduction of a compound of formula VIII Ar4 Ar2 VIII wherein Ar2 is as defined in formula I above, Ar4 isEMI8.1 and Y is N 2X where X is an anion eg. Cm . 2 Compounds of formula VIII may be prepared from the corresponding amine, i.e. where Y in formula VIII is NH2. These amines may in turn be prepared via the Schmidt reaction using such agents as hydrogen azide from the appropriate 9 fluoronone derivative.Compounds of formula I can be synthesised from compounds of formula IX Ar1 Ar5 IX wherein Ar1 is as defined in formula I above and Ar5 isEMI9.1 by selective oxidation with such agents as hypochloride or permanganate.Compounds of formula IX can be prepared by Friedel Craft acylation of compounds of formula X Arl Ar6 X where Ar1 is as defined above and Ar6 is phenyl, or 1,2 or 3 naphthyl.Yet another method for the synthesis of compounds of formula I involves treating compounds of formula XI with CO2. Compounds of formula XI may be prepared by reaction of compounds of formula XII with magnesium in an ethenial solvent such as diethyl ether. Arl Ar9 XI Arl Ar10 XII wherein Ar9 and Ar10 are EMI10.1 For Ar9 A X For Arno A MgX X is halogen such as chloro and Ar is as defined above.As indicated above certain of the compounds of formula I are novel and thus there is provided in a further aspect compounds of formula II , within the scope of formula I , Ar7 Ar8 II in which Ar7 is selected fromEMI10.2 EMI10.3 EMI10.4 Ar8 is selected fromEMI10.5 and R is C2 5alkyl, perfluoro C1 4alkyl eg trifluoromethyl or phenyl and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. Preferred comoounds of formula 11 are those of formula IIA or IIB EMI11.1 wherein R1 is as defined above.Preferred compounds of formula II include 2 4 Trifluoromethylphenyl benzoic acid 2 4 Ethylphenyl benzoic acid 2 4 isoPropylphenyl benzo ic acid 2 4 n Butylphenyl benzoic acid 2 4 t Butylphenyl benzoic acid 2 4 Biphenyl benzoic acid 1 4 Trifluoromethylphenyl 2 naphthoic acid 1 4 Ethylphenyl 2 naphthoic acid and 2 2 Naphthyl benzoic acid.The most preferred compound of formula II is 2 4 trifluoromethylphenyl ben zoic acid. The following examples illustrate the present invention Example 1 Preparation of 4 Trifluoromethyl 2 biphenyl carboxylic acid a. Preparation of 2 4,4 Dimethyl 2 oxazolin 2 yl 4 trifluoromethyl b iphenylA mechanically stirred solution of magnesium turnings 5.1 g, 0.21 mole Mallinckrodt, for Grignards reaction, and 2 2 methoxyphenyl 4,4dimethyl 2 oxazoline 41 g, 0.2 mole in 50 mL dry tetrahydrofuran under nitrogen was prepared. To this was added a crystal of iodine, 1 mL of dibromethane and 2 mL of neat bromo trifluoromethylbenzene to initiate the Grignard reaction.Following initiation of the reaction, the remainder of the p bromo trifluoromethylbenzene 50 g, 0.22 mole total in 100 mL dry tetrahydrofuran was added dropwise at a rate sufficient to maintain the reaction at gentle reflux. The addition took 1 hr. At the end of the addition period, the reaction mixture was heated to reflux for 3 hr. The reaction mixture was then cooled to room temperature and 10 mL water was added dropwise to coagulate the salts. The tetrahydrofuran was decanted and the remaining solids were slurried twice with 300 mL ethyl ether and twice with 300 mL dichloromethane.Each organic extract was decanted from the solids in turn and combined and evaporated under reduced pressure to an oil.This oil was redissolved in 300 mL dichloromethane, washed once with 100 mL water and once with 10 mL saturated sodium chloride solution, dried and concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting residue was distilled under reduced pressure 0.040 mm, 950 to yield 2 4,4 dimethyl 2 oxazolin 2 yl 4 trifluoromethyl biphenyl, yield 33 . A sample was recrystallized from 30 60 petroleum ether mp 5051o . Elemental Analysis Calculated for C18H16F3NO C, 67.70 H, 5.05 N, 4.39 Found C, 67.62 H, 5.09 N, 4.39 b. Preparation of 4 Trifluoromethyl 2 biphenylcarboxylic acidA solution of 2 4,4 dimethyl 2 oxazolin 2 yl 4 trifluoromethylbiphenyl 3.5 g, 0.011 mole in 60 mL 6N hydrochloric acid was stirred at vigorous reflux for 2 hr. The reaction mixture was then cooled to room temperature and extracted with methylene chloride. The organic extracts were dried and concentrated under reduced pressure to yield a solid. Recrystallisation from ethyl ether pentane afforded 4 trifluoromethyl 2 biphenyl carboxylic acid, yield 86 mp 167 169 . Elemental analysis Calculated for C14HgF302 C, 63.16 H, 3.41. Found C, 63.12 H, 3.42.TLC lined tank , 10 methanol chloroform, 1 spot Rf 0.33, SILICA GEL 60 trademark of Whatman Co., Clifton, New Jersey plate. Example 2 Preparation of 4 n Butyl 2 biphenyl carboxylic acid a. Preparation of 2 4,4 Dimethyl 2 oxazolin 2 yl 4 n butylbiphenyl A mechanically stirred solution of magnesium turnings Mallinckrodt, forGrignard s reaction, 3.75 g., 0.154 mole and 2 2 methoxyphenyl 4,4 dime thyl 2 oxazoline 30 g, 0.146 mole in 50 mL dry tetrahydrofuran under nitrogen was prepared. To this was added a crystal of iodine, 1 mL of dibromoethane and 2 mL of neat p Iodo n butylbenzene to initiate the Grignard reaction. After warming to initiate the reaction, the remainder of the g iodo n butylbenzene 40 g, 0.154 mole in 50 mL dry tetrahydrofuran was added dropwise at a rate sufficient to maintain the reaction at gentle reflux.The addition took 1 hr and the reaction mixture was then heated at reflux for 3 hr. The reaction was then cooled to room temperature and 15 mL water was added dropwise to coagulate the salts. The tetrahydrofuran was decanted and the remaining solids were slurried twice with 200 mL ethyl ether and twice with 300 mL dichloromethane. Each organic extract was decanted from the solids in tum and combined and evaporated under reduced pressure to an oil. The oil was redissolved in 300 mL dichloromethane, washed once with 100 ml saturated sodium chloride solution, dried and concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting residue was distilled under reduced pressure 0.027 Torr, 1300 to yield 244,4 dimethyl 2 oxazolin 2 yl 4 n butylbiphenyl as an oil, yield 25 .b. Preparation of 4 n Butyl 2 biphenylcarboxylic acidA solution of 2 4,4 dimethyl 2 oxazolin 2 yl 4 nOutylbiphenyl 12 g, 0.039 mole in 200 ml 6N hydrochloric acid was stirred at vigorous reflux for 48 hr. The reaction mixture was then cooled to room temperature and extracted with dichloromethane. The organic extracts were dried and concentrated under reduced pressure to yield an oil. Chromatography with an acetone petroleum ether mixture yielded a solide Recrystallization from acetone petroleum ether afforded 4 n Buty1 2biphenylcarboxy lic acid yield 20 , mp 7476o . Elemental analysis Calculated for C17Hl802 C, 80.28 H, 7.13. Found C, 80.00 H, 7.15.TLC lined tank , 10 methanol chloroform, 1 spot Rf 0.48, SILICA GEL 60 plate. Example 3 Preparation of 2 4 Biphenyl benzoic acid a. Preparation of 2 4,4 Dimethy 1 2 oxazolin 2 yl 4 phenylb iphenyl A mechanically stirred solution of magnesium turnings Mallinckrodt, forGrignards reaction, 2.95 g, 0.12 mole and 2 methoxyphenyl 4,4 dimethyl 2 oxazoline 23.4 g, 0.114 mole in 100 mL dry tetrahydrofuran under nitrogen was prepared. To this was added a crystal of iodine, 1 mL of dibromoethane and 2 mL of neat p bromophenylbenzene also known as e bromobiphenyl to initiate the Grignard reaction.Following initiation of the reaction, the remainder of the p bromophenylbenzene 28 g, 0.12 mole total in 100 mL dry tetrahydrofuran was added dropwise at a rate sufficient to maintain the reaction at gentle reflux. The addition took 1 hr, at the end of which the reaction was heated to reflux for 4 hr and then allowed to stir overnight at room temperature. The reaction was then worked up by adding 15 mL water to the stirred reaction mixture to coagulate the salts. The tetrahydrofuran was decanted and the remaining solids were slurried twice with 300 mL ethyl ether and twice with 300 mL dichloromethane. Each organic extract was decanted from the solids in turn and combined and evaporated under reduced pressure to an oil.The oil was redissolved in 300 mL dichloromethane, washed once with 100 mL water and once with 100 mL saturated chloride solution, dried and concentrated under reduced pressure to an oil. The oil was chromatographed, eluting with ethyl acetate petroleum ether to yield a solid. Recrystallization from acetone petroleum ether afforded 2 4,4 dimethyl 2 oxazolin 2 yl 4 phenyl biphenyl 16 yield, m.p. 95 97 . b. Preparation of 2 4 biphenyl benzoic acidA solution of 2 4,4 dimethyl 2 oxazolin 2 yl 4 phenylb iphenyl 6.3 g, 0.019 mole in 100 mL 6N hydrochloride acid was stirred at vigorous reflux for 24 hr. The reaction mixture was then cooled to room temperature and extracted with dichloromethane. The organic extracts were dried and concentrated under reduced pressure to yield an oil. Chromotography of the oil in acetone petroleum ether yielded a solid. Recrystallization of the solid from acetone petroleum ether afforded 2 4 biphenyl benzoic acid yielded 28 , m.p. 194 195 . Elemental analysis Calculated for C1gHl402 C, 83.19 H, 5.14. Found C, 83.19 H, 5.10TLC lined tank , 10 methanol chloroform, 1 spot, Rf 0.4, SILICA GEL 60 Trade Name plate.Example 4 Preparation of 4 Trifluoromethyl 2 biphenyl carboxylic acid alternate method a. Preparation of 2 Bromobenzaldehyde Dimethyl Acetal A solution of 2 bromobenzaldehyde 451.9 g, 2.44 mol , trimethyl orthoformate 324 g, 3.05 mol and concentrated hydrochloric acid 4.0 ml, 0.05 mol in methanol 2 L was refluxed for four hours. The volatile components were evaporated on the rotary evaporator and the residue dried over anhydrous potassium carbonate, filtered, and distilled 66 720C at 0.1 0.2 mm to give 474.1 g 84 of the 2 Bromobenzaldehyde DimethylAcetal compound as a colorless oil. H NMR CDCl3 0 3.35 s, 6, OCH3 , 5.50 s, 1, CH , 7.5 m, 4, Ar H .b. Preparation of Iod o 4 trifluoromethylphenyl b is triphenylphosphine palladium II To a slurry of tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 12.61 g, 10.9 mmol in dry benzene 35 ml under nitrogen was added to a solution of 4 iodobenzotrifluride 2.97 g, 10.9 mmol in benzene 35 mL . One hour after dissolution the solvent was evaporated and the residue triturated with cold diethyl ether. The Iodo 4 trifluoromethylphenyl b is triphenyl phosphine palladium II compound 9.58 g, 97 was filtered, dried in vacuo, and stored in a brown bottle under nitrogen. c. Preparation of 4 Trifluoromethyl 2 biphenylcarbaldehyde To magnesium turnings 1.23 g, 50.7 mmol in a dry flask under nitrogen was added anhydrous tetrahydrofuran THF, 10 mL . The mixture was mechanically stirred while a solution of 1,2 bromoethane 1.22 g, 6.5 mmol in THF 10 mL was added dropwise. Upon completion, a solution of the dimethyl acetal of 2 bromobenzaldehyde 3.00 g, 13.0 mmol and 1,2 dibrmoethane 2.44 g, 13.0 mmol in THF 10 mL was added at a rate to maintain gentle reflux. Upon completing, a second of 1,2 dibromoethane 1.22 g, 6.5 mmol in THF 10 mL was added dropwise.The mixture was then refluxed an additional 20 minutes and decanted into an addition funnel attached to a second reaction flask containing a solution of 4 iodobenzotrifluoride 2.72 g, 10.0 mmol and iodo 4 trifluoromethyl bis triphenylphosphine palladium II 0.21 g, 0. 9 mmol in refluxing THF 20 mL . The Grignard reagent was added dropwise and the mixture refluxed for 1 hr. After cooling to rrom temperature, 3N hydrochloric acid was added 30 mL and the THF evaporated on the rotary evaporator. The residue was extracted with diethyl ether. The ether extract was washed with 3N hydrochloric acid 20 mL water 4 x 25 mL , and saturated sodium chloride solution 10 mL . The ether solution was then dried MgSO4 , treated with charcoal, filtered and evaporated to give a dark yellow oil 3.41 g .This was chromatographed on the Waters Prep 500 HPLC using a 1 1 mixture of methylene cholride and hexane. The product was isolated after evaporation of solvent as a light yellow oil 2.41 g, 96.4 . H NMR CDCl3 7.6 m, 7, Ar , 8.0 m, 1, 3 H , 9.9 s, 1, CHO .Elemental analysis calculated for CH14HgF3O C, 67.20 H,3.62 Found C, 67.39 H, 3.69 d. Preparation of 4 Trifluoromethyl 2 biphenylcarboxylic acid To a solution of 4 trilfuoromethyl 2 biphenylcarbaldehyde 1.08 g, 4.32 mmol in tert butanol 15 mL at 800C was added a solution of potassium permanganate 0.89 g, 5.62 mmol in water 25 mL . After stirring at 800C for two hours, the mixture was cooled, a solution of 3N sodium hydroxide was added 2 mL and the manganese dioxide was filtered off.The filtrate was diluted with wate 15 mL and actified with 6N hydrochloric acid to precipitate the title compound 1.05 g, 91.2 . Dissolution in 0.3N sodium hydroxide 15 mL , followed by charcoal treatment, filtrating, and precipitation with 6N hydrochloric acid gave the purified 4 Trifluoromethyl 2 biphenyl carboxylic acid compound 0.85 g, 85 . H NMR CDCl3 7.5 m, 7, ArH , 8.0 m, 1,3 H , 9.5 broad s, 1, CO2H .Example 5By the method of Example 1, the following compounds were prepared 2 4 Bromophenyl benzoic acid, m.p.156 1580 2 4 Methoxyphenyl benzoic acid, m.p.145 1470 2 4 Fluorophenyl benzoic acid, m.p.130 1320 2 4 Methylphenyl benzoic acid, m.p.148 150 2 4 Chlorophenyl benzoic acid, m.p.166.5 167.5 2 4 Ethylphenyl benzoic acid, m.p.129 131 2 4 isoPropylphenyl benzoic acid, m.p.106.5 107.5 2 4 t Butylphenyl benzeic acid, m.p.129 131.50 4 Trifluoromethylphenyl 2 naphthoic acid, m.p. 227 228.50 I 4 Ethylphenyl 2 naphthoic acid, m.p. 152 1540 and 2 2 Naphthyl benzoic acid, m.p. 191 192 Example 6 Effect of 2 4 trifluoromethylphenyl benzoic acid in the hypercholesterolemic male ratHypercholesterolemia was produced in male rats after 3 days in a diet of 0.4 cholesterol and 0.2 sodium cholate. Each group contained 4 rats.Compounds tested were given orally twice daily for 3 days and once on day 4. Control animals received the vehicle, methyl cellulose. The cholesterol containing diet and compound treatment were started at the same time. Animals were bled before dietary and compound treatment and 3 hr after the last dose of compound on day 4. All bleedings were after a 4 hr fast. Total serum cholesterol, triglyceride and high density lipoprotein HDL cholesterol determined by the procedure and test kit supplied byDow Diagnostics Trademark of the Dow Chemical Co. Laboratories, Indianapolis, IN . Very low and low density lipoprotein VLDL LDL cholesterol were determined by the difference between total and HDL cholesterol. Table 1 shows the effect of 2 4 trifluoromethylphenyl benzoic acid andClofibrate on serum total cholesterol and triglyceride levels. Table II shows the effect of 2 4 trifluoromethylphenyl benzoic acid and clofibrate onHDL and VLDL LDL cholesterol. Table I Inhibition of dietary induced hypercholesterolemia Dose change in serum from control Compound mg kg day Cholesterol Triglyceride IA R CF3 150 40 60 100 51 57 II 100 56 53 25 40 43 Clofibrate 200 28 40 100 0 33 50 50 0 31 25 0 0 Table II Effect on HDL and VLDL LDL Cholesterol Dose change in serum from control Compound mg kg day VLDL DL HDL I R CF3 150 52 15 50 50 64 10 25 46 6 Clofibrate 200 29 28 100 0 21Example 7 Effect of compounds of formula IA on Cholesterol and Triglyceride levels in ratsBy the method of Example 5 various compounds of formula IA were assessed for their ability to reduce cholesterol and triglyceride levels in rats.The compounds were compared in efficacy to clofibrate. The results are shown in Table III . TABLE III R in formulation IA Cholesterol lowering Triglyceride lowering CF3 A A n C4Hg A A OCH3 M A F In M CH3 M M Cl M In C2H5 A A i C3H7 A A t C4H9 M AKey In Inactive at dose tested A Activity clofibrate M Activ itA clofibrateExample 8 Pharmaceutical Formulation a. Capsule Compound of formula I 150.0 mg Corn Starch 45.0 mg Stearic Acid 12.0 mg Lactose 93.0 mgThe finely divided Compound I is mixed with the powdered excipients lactose, corn starch, and stearic acid and filled into hard shell gelatin capsules. b.Syrup Compound I as Sodium Salt 162.4 mg equivalent to 150 mg of Free Acid Glycerin 500.0 mg Sucrose 3,500.0 mg Flavouring Agent q.s. Colouring Agent q.s. Preserving Agent 0.1 Purified Water q.s. to 5.0 mlCompound I Sodium Salt and sucrose were dissolved in the glycerin and a portion of the purified water. The preserving agents were dissolved in another portion of hot purified water, and then the colouring agent was added and dissolved. The two solutions were mixed and cooled before the flavouring agent was added. Purified water was added to final volume.The resulting syrup was thoroughly mixed.c. Tablet Compound I Sodium Salt 162.4 mg equivalent to 150 mg of free acid Corn Starch 30.0 mg Lactose 87.6 mg Magnesium Stearate 3.0 mg Polyvinylpyrrolidone 6.0 mg Stearic Acid 12.0 mgCompound I Sodium Salt was finely ground and intimately mixed with the powdered excipients, corn starch and lactose. The powders were wetted with a solution of polyvinylpyrrolidone dissolved in purified water and denatured alcohol to form granules. The granules were dried and mixed with the powdered stearic acid and magnesium stearate. The formulation was then compressed into tablets weighing 300 mg each. d. Tablet Compound formula I 150.0 mg Corn Starch 30.0 mg Lactose 100.0 mg Magnesium Stearate 2.0 mg Polyvinylpyrrolidone 6.0 mg Stearic Acid 12.0 mgCompound I was finely ground and initimately mixed with the powdered excipients, corn starch and lactose. The powders were wetted with a solution of polyvinylpyrrolidone dissolved in purified water and denatured alcohol to form granules. The granules were dried and mixed with the powdered stearic acid and magnesium stearate. The formulation was then compressed into tablets weighing 300 mg each.Example 9 ToxicityOral administration of 2 4 trifluoromethylphenyl benzoic acid to rats at upto 1g kg bodyweight no deaths were observed.