# Sealing compound for can ends.

## Abstract
Disclosed is a sealing compound for can ends excellent in the adaptability to the lining operation, which comprises an aqueous latex of a styrene butadiene rubber, a tackifier and a filler, wherein said latex contains styrene butadiene rubber particles having a number average particle size of from 1600 to 3000 Å, which are stabilized by an emulsifier or a dispersant. If an alkali metal carbonate or an alkali metal salt of a phosphorus oxyacid is incorporated as a particle size adjusting agent in this sealing compound, occurrence of rusting on the metal exposed surface of the cut edge of a can end member can be prevented very effectively.

## Claims
CLAI S 1. A sealing compound for can ends excellent in the adaptability to the lining operation, which comprises an aqueous latex of a styrene butadiene rubber, a tackifier and a filler, wherein said latex contains styrene butadiene rubber particles having a number average particle size of from 1600 to 3000 , which are stabilized by an emulsifier or a dispersant, 2. A sealing compound as set forth in clBim 1, wherein the number average particle size of the styrene butadiene rubber particles is in the range of from 1800 to 2800 . 3. A sealing compound as set worth An claim 1, wherein the styrene butadiene rubber contains styrene aRd butadiene at a weight ratio of from 28 72 to 55 45. 4. A sealing compound as set forth in claim 1 or 3, wherein said latex comprises styrene butadiene rubber particles obtained by emulsion polymerizing styrene and butadiene at a temperature of 35 to 70 C. 5. A sealing compound ts.set forth in claim 1, wherein said latex contains the styrene butadiene rubber particles at a solid concentration of 30 to 90 by weight. 6. A sealing compound as set forth in claim 1, wherein said latex has a pH value Qf from 9.5 to 10.5. 7. A sealing compound as set forth in claim 1, which further comprises a thickener composed of a watersoluble polymer in an amount of 2 to 12 parts by weight per 100 parts by weight of solids of the styrene b tadiene rubber. 8. A sealing compound as set forth in claim 1, which comprises a tackifier in an amount of 5 to 200 parts by weight, a filler in an amount of 30 to 200 parts by weight and an emulsifier or a dispersant in an amount of 3.5 to 9.5 parts by weight, per 100 parts by weight of solids of the styrene butadiene rubber. 9. A sealing compound as set forth in claim 1, wherein the aqueous latex of the styrene butadiene rubber contains as a particle size adjusting agent an alkali metal carbonate or an alkali metal salt of a phosphorus oxyacid in an mount of 0.3 to 2,0 parts by weight per 100 parts by weight Of solids of the styrene butadiene 4 bçr. 10. A sealing compound as set forth in claim 9, wherein the particle size adjusting agent s sodium carbonate, sodium bicarbonate or sodium phosphate,

## Description
DESCRIPTIONTitle of the Invention SEALING COMPOUND FOR CAN ENDSTechnical Field The present invention relates to a sealing compound excellent in the adaptability to the lining operation.More particularly, the present invention relates to an improvement in a sealing compound comprising as the main ingredient an aqueous latex of a styrene butadiene rubber. Furthermore, the present invention relates to a sealing compound for cans, which can effectively prevent rusting on the metal exposed surface of the cut edge of a can end member.Background Art In the conventional process for the manufacture of cans, as shown in Fig. 1, a liquid sealing composition called sealing compound is lined in an annular groove 2 of a can end member can lid 1, and a sealing compound layer gasket 3 is thus formed, if necessary, by drying. Then, the can end member 1 is double seamed to a flange of a can body 5, as shown in Fig. 2, to form a can. This sealing compound comprises as the main ingredient an aqueous latex of a styrene butadiene rubber SBR , and a composition formed by adding a tackifier, a filler, an emulsifier or a dispersant, a thickening agent and the like to this aqueous latex is ordinarily used for the manufacture of cans. This sealing compound comprises as the main ingredient an aqueous latex of a styrene butadiene rubber SBR which contains styrene butadiene rubber particles ordinarily having a number average particle size of from 1200 to 1500 When this known sealing compound is lined on a can lid at a relatively low speed, for example, of 20 to 150 strokes per minute, satisfactory results are generally obtained. However, it has been found that when the lining operation is carried out at a relatively high speed, for example, of 180 to 400 strokes per minute, problems arise in connection with the adaptability of this known sealing compound to the lining operation and the sealing performance and other qualities 6f the formed gasket. More specifically, the above mentioned latex based sealing compound is lined in a groove formed ona can lid through an openable and closable nozzle, and the sealing compound undergoes a mechanical friction by sliding or the like repeatedly between a needle for opening and closing this nozzle and a leakage preventing Packing arranged along this needle. This mechanitaifriction is increased as the lining stroke number per minute is increased, and with increase of this mechanical friction, the temperature of the sealing compound is elevated. In the above mentioned conventional sealing compound, at the time of the high speed lining operation, agglomerates of the rubber particles are formed and coagulated by the mechanical friction and or the elevation of the temperature, and simultaneously, the viscosity of the sealing compound is increased, as the result of that long time continuous lining operation becomes impossible and the adaptability to the lining operation is degraded.Furthermore, the sealing performance of the formed gasket becomes insufficient and other qualities and properties of the gasket are degraded. Moreover, it has been found that when this known aqueous sealing compound is used, rusting often takes place on the cut edge 4 of the can end member 1. Since a surface treated steel plate such as a tin plated steel plate tinplate or a chromic acid electrolytically treated steel plate tin free steel plate is used as the can end member, occurrence of rusting on the surface to which the sealing compound is directly applied is prevented because of the presence of the covering layer, but in the above mentioned cut edge 4, the steel substrate is exposed and the aqueous sealing compound adheres to this steel exposed portion to cause rusting.If rusting takes place on the cut edge 4 of the can end member 1, when the can end member 1 is double seamed to a can body filled with the content, rusts are separated and incorporated into the content to degrade the flavor and taste of the content, and furthermore, filliform corrosions are formed on the double seamed portion to impair ahe appearance of the can.Disclosure of the Invention We found that when an aqueous latex of styrene butadiene rubber particles having a number average particle size of from 1600 to 3000 R is selected and used as the aqueous latex for the sealing compound, formation of agglomerates and abnormal increase of the viscosity by the above mentioned mechanical friction or temperature elevation at the thigh speed lining operation can be effectively controlled and the adaptability to the lining operation can be prominently improved, and the abovementioned defects can be eliminated effectively. As the result of our researches made on the causes of rusting on the cut edge of the can end member, we also found that an electrolyte, such as sodium chloride, which is incorporated into an aqueous latex of a styrenebutadiene rubber used as the base component of the aqueous sealing compound so as to adJust the particle size of the rubber particles, causes the above mentioned rusting and when an alkali metal carbonate or an alkali metal salt of a phosphorus oxyacid is used as such electrolyte, occurrence of rusting on the cut edge of the can end member can be prevented effectively. We have now completed the present invention based these findings. More specifically, in accordance with one fundamental aspect of the present invention, there is provided a sealing compound for can ends excellent in the adaptability to the lining operation, which comprises an aqueous latex of a styrene butadiene rubber, a tackifier and a filler, wherein said later. contains styrene butadiene rubber particles having a number average particle size of from 1600 to 3000 i, which are stabilized by an emulsifier or a dispersant. In accordance with another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a sealing compound for cans, as set forth above, wherein said aqueous latex of the styrene butadiene rubber further comprises as a particle size adjusting agent an alkali metal carbonate or an alkali metal salt of a phophorus oxyacid in an amount of 0.3 to 2.0 parts by weight, per 100 parts by weight of solids of the styrene butadiene rubber. incidentally, by the term n number average particle size t used in the instant specification and appended claims is meant a mean value of particle sizes determined according to the electron micrography method.Brief Description of the Drawings Fig. 1 is a sectional view showing the state of application of a sealing compound to a groove of a can end member. Fig. 2 is a sectional view showing a double seamed portion of a can end member and a can body. Fig. 3 is a graph illustrating the relation between the number average particle size of SBR particles and the weight of coagulated agglomerates. Fig. 4 is a graph illustrating the relation between the liquid temperature of a composition comprising an SBR latex and the Brookfield viscosity of the composition. Best Mode for Carrying out the Invention In the present invention, as the styrene butadiene rubber hereinafter referred to as nSBR latex, there is used a latex of SBR particles having a number average particle size of from 1600 to 3000 i, especially from 1800 to 2800 R. This condition is critical for obtaining a sealing compound having a good adaptability to the lining operation, which will readily be understood fromFigs. 3 and 4 of the accompanying drawings. Fig. 3 shows the relation between the number average particle size ss of SBR particles and the weight of coagulated agglomerates, which is observed when an SBR latex based sealing compound is subjected to the JIS mechanical stability test.From Fig. 3, it will readily be understood that if a latex having a number average particle size within the above mentioned range is selected and used, formation of agglomerates can prominently be controlled as compared with the conventional sealing compounds A and B. Fig. 4 shows the relation between the liquid temperature and the Brookfield viscosity rotor num 4 rotated at 20 rpm, unit cps of the above mentioned SBR latexbased sealing compound. It is considered that a viscosity of 3000 to 6000 cps is suitable for the adaptability of a sealing compound to the high speed lining operation.From Fig. 4, it is seen that in the conventional sealing compounds A and B, the range of the temperatures giving an appropriate viscosity is considerably narrow, whereas when an SBR latex has a number average particle size within the range specified in the present invention, the applicable temperature range can be broadened remarkably and the adaptability to the lining operation can be remarkably improved. The effects of improving the mechanical stability and temperature stability of the sealing compound by adjusting the SBR particle size within the abovementioned range according to the present invention, are irrelevant to the mechanical stability and temperature stability of the SBR latex per se. And these effects are attained for the first time when a sealing compound is formed by incorporating a tackifier, a filler, a thickener and an emulsifier or dispersant into the SBR latex.When the particle Size is changed in the SBR latex and it is subjected to the JIS mechanical stability test, it is seen that agglomerates are hardly formed if the number average particle size is in the range of from 1200 to 3000 R. When. the temperature dependency of the Brookfield viscosity of the SBR latex per se examined, it is seen that there is no substantial temperature dependency of the Brookfield viscosity, or there is rather observed a negative temperature dependency.From the foregoing facts, it will be readily understood that the tendency of reduction of the mechanical stability or temperature stability of latex rubber particles at the high speed lining operation is observed for the first time when they are formed into a sealing compound by incorporation of a tackifier, a filler, a thickener and an emulsifier or dispersant, and it will also be understood that according to the present invention, by increasing the particle size of SBR latex particles beyond the customarily adopted particle size, the above mentioned problems inherently involved in sealing compounds for the lining operation can be solved. In the present invention, any of SBR latices prepared according to known methods can optionally be used, so far as the number average particle size of latex particles is within the above mentioned range. An SBR latex is ordinarily obtained by emulsion polymerizing styrene and butadiene in an aqueous medium in the presence of an emulsifier or a dispersant. Dw kinds of SBR latices, that is, a cold rubber obtained at a polymerization tempenature lower than about 100C and a hot rubber obtained at a polymerization temperature of 35 to 700C , are obtained according to the polymerization temperature. Either the cold rubber or the hot rubber can be used in the present invention.However, since a relatively large amount of a polymerization inhibitor is contained in the cold rubber, if the cold rubber is used, the polymerization inhibitor is included in the sealing compound and is apt to have bad influences on the flavor of the content packed in a can. Accordingly, in the present invention, it is preferred that a hot rubber obtained by carrying out emulsion polymerization at 35 to 700C should be used as theSBR latex. In order to impart an optimal combination of the elastic and plastic properties to the SBR based sealing compound, it is preferred that in forming SBt, styrene and butadiene should be copolymerized at a weight ratio of from 28 72 to 55 45, especially from 35 65 to 55 45. For adJustment of the number average particle size of SBR particles within the above mentioned range, there can be adopted the following methods, though applicable methods are not limited to those described below.Method I In the emulsion polymerization, the amounts charged of the emulsifier or dispersant and water are reduced, and also the amount of the polymerization initiator is reduced and the polymerization rate is lowered.Method II A small amount of ammonium chloride ammonia is added to the latex to form an ammonia soap, and the particle size is coarsened at the heating condensation step.Method III A solution of an electrolyte such as sodium chloride is added to the latex while keeping the amount of the soap and the pH value constant in the latex, or the amount of the soap is reduced, thereby to form an unstable latex, and then, the latex is cooled and frozen at a temperature lower than OOC in a short time and is then thawed. Examples of the latex recipe that can be adopted in the foregoing methods are described on page 198 of Handbook of Synthetic Rubbers published on November 30, 1967, and the incorporation ratios of the respective additives and the operation conditions are adJusted so that the number average particle size is included in the above mentioned range. It is ordinarily preferred that the latex that is used in the present invention should have a solid content of 40 to 70 by weight and a pH value of 9.5 to 10.5. In addition to the above mentioned SBR latex, the sealing compound of the present invention comprises as indispensable ingredients a tackifier for improving the adhesion to a coating or metal substrate and thus improving the sealing performance and a filler for imparting good compressive elasticity to the sealing compound and improving the drying property. As preferred examples of the tackifier, there can be mentioned rosin type resins such as rosin, hydrogenated rosin, rosin esters, hydrogenated rosin esters and hardened rosin terpene resins phenol formaldehyde resins phenolic resins modified with a natural resin such as rosin or terpene xylene formaldehyde resins modified resins thereof and petroleum resins. The tackifier is used in an amount of 5 to 200 paris by weight, especially 20 to 140 parts Jr weight, per 100 parts by weight of solids of the SBR latex. As preferred examples of the filler, there can be mentioned siliceous fillers such as colloidal silica, silicic anhydride, hydrous silicic acid and synthetic silicates, light calcium carbonate, heavy calcium carbonate, activated calcium carbonate, kaolin, calcined clay, alumina white, talc powder, dolomite, aluminum sulfate barium sulfate, magnesium carbonate magnesium silicate, magnesium oxide, calcium sulfate, pumice powder, glass powder, asbestos powder, zinc oxide titanium dioxide and carbon black. The filler is used in an amount of 30 to 200 parts by weight, especially 50 to 150 parts by weight, per 100 parts by weight of solids of the SBR latex. The sealing compound of the present invention further comprises an emulsifier or dispersant inherently contained in the SBR latex or independently added. As preferred examples of the emulsifier or dispersant, there can be mentioned fatty acids such as oleic acid, stearic acid, palmitic acid, lauric acid and myristic acid resin acids such as rosin acid organic sulfonic acids such as alkylaryl sulfonic acids, sulfonic acids of dibasic fatty acid esters and sulfonic acids of aliphatic amides and sodium, potassium and ammonium salts of these acids. The emulsifier or dispersant is present in an amount of 3.5 to 9.5 parts by weight, especially 4 to 6 parts by weight, per 100 parts by weight of solids of the SBR latex.Since only a relatively small amount of the emulsifier or dispersant is contained in the SBR latex having a relatively large particle size, which is used in the present invention, it is ordinarily preferred that an additional amouXtVl fWVJ the emulsifier or dispersant is simultaneously incorporated when the tackifier and filler are added to the SBR latex. Since the viscosity of the sealing compound of the present invention is generally low, from the viewpoint of the adaptability to the lining operation, it is preferred that a thickener composed of a water soluble polymer is incorporated into the sealing compound of the present invention. As preferred examples of the thickener, there can be mentioned methyl cellulose, hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose, hydroxyethyl cellulose, carboxymethyl cellulose, sodium alginate, polyvinyl alcohol, sodium polyacrylate and karaya gum. The thickener is preferably used in an amount of 2 to 12 parts by weight per 100 parts by weight of solids of the SBR latex. Furthermore, other additives such as an antioxidant and a hydrogen ion adjusting agent may optionally be incorporated into the sealing compound of the present invention according to known recipes. In accordance with one preferred embodiment of the present invention, an alkali metal carbonate or an alkali metal salt of a phosphorus oxyacid is incorporated as a particle size adjusting agent into the aqueous SBR latex. An electrolyte such as sodium chloride is inevitably contained in an aqueous latex of SBR for adjusting the particle size. When the particle size of SBR particles in the aqueous latex is too small, various disadvantages as described hereinbefore are brought about. Accordingly, it is necessary that an electrolyte should be incorporated as 2 particle size adjusting agent for maintaining a particle size of SBR particles beyond a certain level. The important feature of this preferred embodiment of the present invention is that an alkali metal carbonate or an alkali metal salt of a phosphorus oxyacid is selected as the particle size adjusting agent from variaus electrolytes and a composition formed by adding this alkali metal salt in an amount of 0.3 to 2.0 parts by weight per 100 parts by weight of solids of the SBR latex is used as a sealing compound for cans. As is shown in Example 2 given hereinafter, when a sealing compound comprising an SBR latex and sodium chloride or sodium sulfate as the electrolyte is coated on a surface treated steel plate in which a steel substrate is scratched, rusting is caused in the scratched portion with the lapse of time and this rusting is conspicuously accelerated under high temperature and high humidity conditions.In contrast, when a sealing compound comprising an SBR latex and sodium bicarbonate, sodium carbonate or sodium phosphate as the electrolyte according to the preferred embodiment of the present invention is similarly coated on a scratched surface treated steel plate, rusting is not caused for a long time even under high temperature and high humidity conditions. Rusting, control of which is aimed in the present invention, takes place when a sealing compound applied to a can end member is allowed to stand in air in the dry state, and this rusting inherently occurs when an SBR latex is formed into a sealing compound by incorporation of other auxiliary components. In other words, when anSBR latex per se is dried and, if necessary, crosslinked to form an elastomer, corrosion of a metal is negligible irrespectively of the kind of the electrolyte. Accordingly, sodium chloride has been used as the electrolyte in many cases.In contrast, the sealing compound of the present invention comprises an emulsifier or a dispersant for improving the dispersion stability of the SBR particles or tackifier in the presence of a large amount of a filler and a thickener for improving the adaptability to the lining operation, and because of the presence of these moistureabsorbing components, the sealing compound of the present invention is very sensitive to the humidity even after drying and corrosion by the residual electrolyte is significant.It has been found that when an alkali metal carbonate or an alkali metal salt of a phosphorus oxyacid is used as a particle size adjusting agent for SBR latex particles according to the preferred embodiment of the present invention, the corrosive action of the sealing compound can be prominently controlled even in the presence of moisture absorbing components in the sealing compound without impairing the inherent particle size adjusting action of the alkali metal salt. As the alkali metal carbonate to be incorporated as the particle size adjusting agent in this preferred embodiment of the present invention, there can be mentioned sodium carbonate, sodium bicarbonate and potassium carbonate, and as the alkali metal salt of the phosphorus oxyacid, there can be mentioned sodium phosphate, sodium pyrophosphate, sodium tripolyphosphate, sodium phosphite and potassium phosphate. Since the SBR latex based sealing compound is sensitive to the humidity to some extent, in order to attain the objects of the present invention, it is especially preferred that an alkali metal carbonate or bicarbonate is used as the particle size adjusting agent. The amount of the alkali metal carbonate or the alkali metal salt of the phosphorus oxyacid to be incorporated in the SBR latex is 0.3 to 2.0 parts by weight, preferably 0.4 to 1.2 parts by weight, per 100 parts by weight of solids of the SBR latex, though this amount is changed to some extent according to the particle size of the SBR particles. When the amount of the particle size adjusting agent is too little and below the above range, no satisfactory particle size adjusting effect can be obtained, and if the amount of the particle size adjusting agent is too much and beyond the above range, the SBR latex based sealing compound becomes too sensitive to the humidity and the intended objects of the present invention cannot satisfactorily be attained. The SBR latex that is used in this preferred embodiment of the present invention can be obtained by emulsionpolymerizing styrene and butadiene in an aqueous medium containing the above mentioned alkali metal carbonate or alkali metal salt of the phosphorus oxyacid in the presence of an emulsifier or a dispersant such as mentioned above. Adjustment of the particle size can be accomplished by increasing or decreasing the amount of the alkali metal carbonate or alkali metal salt of the phosphorus oxyacid. For example, if the amount of such alkali metal salt is increased, the particle size can be increased. The present invention will now be described in detail with reference to the following Examples that by no means limit the scope of the present invention.Example 1Composition of Sealing Compound Ingredient Parts by Weight Rubber SBR 100.0 Filler clay and titanium 100.0 dioxide Tackifier rosin type resin 80.0 Thickener methyl cellulose and karaya 5.0 gum Emulsifier or dispersant rosin 4.5 acid soap and fatty acid soap Antioxidant 1.0 Water 435.0 Solid content 40.0 96 by weight pH Value 10.0 Seven sealing compounds A through G having the above composition but being different in the particle size of rubber particles were prepared and were tested according to the JIS latex mechanical stability test method, that is, the synthetic rubber NBR latex mechanical stability test method 4.6 according to JIS K 6392 1976. More specifically, 100 g of a sample was collected at normal temperature and stirred at 1000 rpm under a load of 10 Kg for 1 hour. The weight of coagulated agglomerates was measured and the mechanical stability was evaluated based on the measured weight. The obtained results are shown in Table 1. Table 1 Results of JIS Mechanical Stability Test of Sealing CompoundsSealing Particle Size i of Weight mg of CoaguCompound Rubber Particles lated Agglomerates A 1200 29 B 1400 15 C 1600 10 D 1800 3.5 E 2300 1.7 F 2800 2.0 G 3000 2.5 From the results shown in Table 1, it will readily be understood that if the particle size of the rubber particles is at least 1600 i, especially at least 1800 i, the amount of coagulated agglomerates is drastically reduced. Then, the foregoing sealing compounds were examined with respect to the temperature dependency of the viscosity according to the following procedures. More specifically, 200 mQ of a sample was charged in a beaker and the viscosity unit cps was measured by a Brookfield viscometer provided with a rotor num 4 rotated at 20 rpm. The obtained results are shown in Table 2. Table 2Temperature Dependency of Viscosity cps Sealing Measurement Temperature C Compound 5 10 15 20 25 30 40A 4500 4300 4600 5200 5900 6800 10800B 4300 4100 4300 4700 5300 6100 8700C 4000 3900 4000 4400 4900 5400 7400D 3800 3600 3800 4000 4400 5000 6400E 3500 3400 3500 3800 4100 4500 5500F 3200 3000 3100 3400 3600 4000 5000G 3200 3000 3100 3300 3500 3900 4800 Furthermore, the foregoing sealing compounds were tested with respect to the adaptability to the actual lining operation. The obtained results are shown inTable 3. Table 3Sealing Particle Size 8 Low Speed Lin High Speed LinCompound of Rubber ing Operation .ing Operation Particles 125 strokes 250 strokes per minute per minute A 1200 F VP B 1400 F P C 1600 G F D 1800 G G 2300 G G F 2800 G G G 3000 G G The symbols in Table 3 have the following meanings. VP 3 to 10 hours continuous lining operation was possible P 14 to 28 hours continuous lining operation was possible F 49 to 70 hours continuous lining operation was possible G 100 to 200 hours1 continuous lining operation was possibleExample 2Composition of Sealing Compound Ingredient Parts by weight PHR SBR Latex containing 1.0 part 100.0 by weight of particle sizeadjusting agent per 100 parts by weight of rubber solids Filler clay and titanium dioxide 100.0 Ingredient Parts by Weight PHR Tackifier rosin type resin 80.0Thickener methyl cellulose and 5.0 karaya gum Emulsifier or dispersant rosin 4.5 acid soap and fatty acid soap Antioxidant 1.0Water 435.0Solid content 40.0 by weight pH Value 10.0 Sealing compounds A through F having the abovementioned composition, containing 1.0 part by weight of the particle size dd3usting agent per 100 parts by weight of the rubber solids and being different in the kind of the particle size adjusting agent were prepared, and they were tested with respect to the rusting property to the iron surface according to the following accelerated rusting test method. An epoxy phenolic lacquer was coated on a commercially available, chemically treated steel plate Hi Top supplied by Toyo Kohan Kabushiki Kaisha and having a thickness of 0.22 mm so that the thickness of the coating after baking was 50 ssm, and the resulting coating was baked under predetermined conditions. Then, scratches reaching the iron surface were formed on the coating by using a sharp knife, and a sample of the sealing compound was coated on the scratches so that a compound film having a thickness of 15 to 30 m was obtained. Then, the coated steel plate was dried at 900C for 10 minutes to obtain a test specimen. The test specimen was allowed to stand under predetermined temperature and humidity conditions, and it was checked whether or not rusting was caused in the scratches. The obtained results are shown in Table 4, from which it will be readily understood that sodium bicarbonate, sodium carbonate and sodium phosphate have a good effect of rusting prevention. Incidentally, in respect to each sealing compound, 10 specimens were prepared and the number of the specimens where rusting was observed is shown in Table 4. Table 4Sealing Particle Size Storage ConditionsCompound Adjusting AgentTemperature of 20 C and Temperature of 37 C andRelative Humidity of 75 Relative Humidity of 83 Storage Period Storage Period 5 days 15 days 30 days 5 days 15 days 30 daysA sodium chloride 0 7 10 10 10 10B potassium chloride 0 6 10 10 10 10C sodium sulfate 0 7 10 10 10 10D sodium bicarbonate 0 0 0 0 0 0E sodium carbonate 0 0 0 0 0 0F sodium phosphate 0 0 0 0 0 0