# Blow molding clamp.

## Abstract
This relates to a blow molding system wherein a plurality of preforms are simultaneously blow molded within a mold set with the preforms being carried by one or more carriers which move first to a loading sta tion to receive preforms, then through an oven to heat the preforms, then into a mold set wherein the plural preforms are simutaneously blow molded, then to an ejection station where the blow molded articles are discharged, and finally back to the loading station. There are two mold sets which are part of a clamp which operates sequentially to open and close each nold set with one mold set being closed as the other mold set is being opened. The carriers may travel either in a single continuous path for sequentially positioning at first one mold set and then the other, or there may be two continuous circuits for the carriers in which event the two mold sets of the clamp may be different. This abstract forms no part of the specification of this ap plication and is not to be construed as limiting the claims of the application.

## Claims
We claim 1. A blow molding clamp for simultaneously blow molding a plurality of preforms arranged in a row carried by a pallet, said clamp comprising fixed remote mold half sets, companion mold half sets mounted as a unit with a reciprocating clamp member for movement together for selected cooperation with a respective one of said fixed mold half sets wherein when one set of said mold halves is closed the other set of said mold halves is open, said clamp including a pallet support track section associated with each set of mold halves for receiving preform carriers, means mounting each of said pallet support track sections for movement between a position generally centered relative to a respective set of mold halves when open and a position centered relative to said respective sets of mold halves in their closed positions, and means for transversely reciprocating said half set unit. 2. A blow molding clamp according to claim 1 wherein the positions of said pallet support track sections when aligned with open mold halves are different. 3. A blow molding clamp according to claim 1 wherein the total movement of said companion mold half sets is generally that required to move one of said movable mold half sets to a normal open position. 4. A blow molding apparatus comprising the clamp of claim 1 together with two supply and two return track units positioned for supplying preform carriers to respective ones of said pallet support track sections and receiving preform carriers from respective ones of said pallet support track sections. 5. A blow molding apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said supply track units are arranged in diagonal relation for supplying preform carriers to opposite ends of said clamp from different directions. 6. A blow molding apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said two supply and said two return track units are parts of a single continuous track assembly. 7. A blow molding apparatus according to claim 4 or claim 6 wherein there is an oven associated with each of said supply tracks. 8. A blow molding apparatus according to claim 7 wherein said apparatus includes plural feed sections, said feed sections including a continuously advancing feed section for each of said ovens and an interrupted feed section for the remainder of said track assembly. 9. A blow molding apparatus according to claim 8 wherein said interrupted feed section includes a plurality of separate interrupted feed units. 10. A blow molding apparatus according to claim 6 wherein said track assembly includes two lanes and transfer means at the ends of said runs for transferring preform carriers from one lane to the other of said lanes. 11. A blow molding apparatus according to claim 10 wherein said preform carriers are elongated in the form of pallets and have means for carrying a plurality of preforms, and said transfer means include lateral feed units. 12. A blow molding apparatus according to claim 10 wherein said carriers are individual preform carriers, and said transfer means are in the form of sockets. 13. A blow molding apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said two supply and said two return track units are parts of two separate track units having adjacent lanes with each of said adjacent lanes including a supply track unit and a return track unit. 14. A blow molding apparatus according to claim 13 wherein there is an oven associated with each of said supply track units. 15. A clamp according to claim 1 together with guide tracks fixed relative to said clamp for supplying carriers to and receiving carriers from each pallet support track section when the respective mold unit is in an open position, whereby preforms may be loaded in and blown articles removed from one mold unit while preforms are being blow molded in the other mold unit. 16. A clamp according to claim 15 wherein said guide tracks are located centrally of said frame for sequentially cooperating with said two pallet support track sections. 17. A clamp assembly according to claim 1 wherein said pallet support track sections are carried by said clamp member both for movement with said clamp member and relative to said clamp member. 18. A clamp according to claim 1 wherein there are blow means for applyingblwing gas to preforms in said mold units, said blow means being carried by said clamp member for movement with said clamp member. 19. A clamp according to claim 1 wherein said molds are of the type including a separate bottom component, and means carried by said clamp member for moving said bottom components between open and closed positions. 20, A clamp according to claim 1 wherein said clamp member is generally I shaped in cross section and has upper and lower transversely directed longitudinally extending flanges, and molding components are carried by said flanges, 21, A method of blow molding at one time plural preforms, said method comprising the steps of providing heated preforms in carriers, using the carriers positioning a selected plurality of the heated preforms in one mold unit of a two mold unit clamp, transversely closing the one mold unit on the selected heated preforms and shifting the one mold unit transversely to one side while simultaneously opening the other mold unit and positioning the other mold unit for discharging blow molded articles and receiving a new supply of preforms, and then repeating the step with the other mold unit being closed and the one mold unit being opened,

## Description
BLOW MOLDING CLAMP This invention relates in general to blow molding apparatus, and more particularly to a clamp including a pair of mold units wherein, while one set of mold units is operative to blow mold preforms in accordance with the cavity configuration of the molds, the other mold unit is open, permitting the removal of previously blow molded articles and the positioning therein of additional preforms. This invention particularly relates to a clamp assembly for the high speed production of blow molded articles, preferably bottles, from preforms. The invention particularly relates to a clamp which includes two mold units mounted within a frame and separated by a reciprocating clamp member. Each mold unit is a plural cavity construction with the cavities being in longitudinally adjacent relation and each mold unit including at least two mold halves of a split arrangement. Remote mold halves of the two mold units are fixed relative to the frame while adjacent mold halves of the two mold units are carried by the clamp member. The clamp member has two operating positions between which it periodically moves.In one operating position, the clamp member effects the closing of one mold unit while opening the other mold unit.In the second position, the clamp member closes the other mold unit and opens the one mold unit. In accordance with this invention, while one mold unit is closed and preforms positioned therein are being blow molded, articles previously blow molded in the other mold unit are transferred out of the clamp and are replaced by a new set of preforms. Thus, when the blow molding operation in one mold unit is completed, the other mold unit has been cleared of blow molded articles and has positined for reception therein a new set of preforms. A particular advantage of the clamp is that a large number of preforms may be simultaneously blow molded, the number presently envisioned being on the order of twelve to sixteen preforms arranged in a single line. v Another feature of the invention is forming the clamp member in the shape of an I beam having upper and lower flanges and wherein the necessary inflation equipment for the two mold units is carried by one set of flanges and, in the event the mold construction of each mold unit is of the type having a bottom or end mold portion which must be moved longitudinally of the mold cavity, the necessary apparatus for supporting and positioning such mold portion may be mounted on the other flanges. In accordance with this invention, the preforms are carried by carriers and are transported by way of a feed system through an oven tb effect the required heating of the preforms before the preforms are introduced into the clamp assembly. It is also proposed to utilize a clamp wherein there are two supply tracks and two receiving tracks so that the required movement of the movable blow mold halves is restricted to that necessary to move blow mold halves from an open position spaced from corresponding fixed blow mold halves a distance only necessary to permit the exit of the blown articles to a closed position. At the same time, the relative positions of the set of blow molds are such that when one set of blow molds is closed below molded preforms carried by one carrier, the other set of blow molds is open and aligned with the associated tracks to permit the simultaneous entrance of a carrier carrying preforms and the exit of a carrier carrying blown articles. In another alternative of the invention, there may be two separate paths with one run of each of the two paths being associated with a clamp. With this type of arrangement, the clamp may be provided with two different sets of blow molds so as to handle along one line one type of article and along the other line a different type of article. In accordance with this invention, it is also feasible to move preforms at a uniform rate through an associated oven while presenting preforms to the oven and from the oven and through the clamp on a step by step basis in accordance with the operation of the clamp. With the above and other objects in view that will hereinafter appear, the nature of the invention will be more clearly understood by reference to the following detailed description, he appended claims, and the several views illustrated in the accompanying drawings.IN THE DRAWINGS Figure 1 is a plan view of a blow molding machine having a track arrangement and clamp assembly in accordance with this invention, parts being broken away. Figure 2 is an enlarged schematic elevational view of the clamp assembly of Figure 1, with parts broken away and shown in section. Figure 3 is an enlarged fragmentary plan view of a portion of the track assembly, and shows generally the mounting of a carrier therein, parts being broken away. Figure 4 is a fragmentary sectional view taken generally along the lie 4 4 of Figure 3, and shows further the relationship of a carrier with the track assembly. Figure 5 is a perspective view with parts broken away and shown in section of a modified form of carrier and track assembly. Figure 6 is a transverse vertical sectional view taken through the carrier and track assembly of Figure 5, and shows further the constructional details thereof. Figure 7A 7F is a schematic plan view showing the movement of the carriers with respect to components of the blow molding apparatus. Figure 8 is an enlarged fragmentary plan view showing further the details of the blow molding apparatus of Figure 7. Figure 9 is a schematic plan view showing a blow molding apparatus similar to that of Figure 7, but wherein the two runs of the paths of movement of the carriers are parts of two separate conveyor systems. Figure 10 is a plan view of a blow molding apparatus incorporating a modified track and clamp relationship. Figure 11 is an enlarged transverse vertical sectional view taken generally along the line 11 11 ofFigure 10, and shows the details of the clamp. Figure 12 is a longitudinal vertical sectional view taken generally along the line 12 12 of Figure 11 with parts broken away and shown in section, and shows further the details of the clamp. Reference is now made to Figure 1 wherein the simplest form of blow molding apparatus in accordance with the invention is illustrated and identified by the numeral 10. The blow molding apparatus includes a clamp, generally identified by the numeral 12, and a conveyor system, generally identified by the numeral 14. Referring now to Figure 2, it will be seen that the clamp 12 includes a base 16 having a pair of horizontally spaced, vertically extending platens 18, 20 which are fixed. The platen 18 carries a first set of fixed mold halves 22 each set of mold halves including any desired number of mold halves, but generally on the order of twelve to sixteen mold halves. The platen 20 carries a second set of fixed mold halves 24 with the number and type of mold halves in the set 24 corresponding to the number and type of mold halves in the set 24. Suitable combined support and guide rods 26, 28 extend between the platens 18, 20 to form with the platens a rigid unit and also to support a shiftable clamp member 30 which is mounted between the platens 18 and 20. The clamp member 30 has mounted on that face thereof which opposes the platen 18 a set 32 of movable mold halves which cooperate with the mold halves of the set 22. On the other face of the clamp 30 which opposes the platen 20 there is another set 34 of movable mold halves which cooperate with the mold halves 24. The sets 22, 32 of mold halves combine to form a mold set 36 while the sets 24, 34 of the mold halves combine to form a mold set 38. A track member 40 is carried by the clamp member 30 and is associated with the mold set 36 while a like track 42, associated with the mold set 38 is carried by the opposite part of the clamp member 30. The tracks 40, 42 are mounted for movement relative to the clamp member 30 on the rods 44. As is clearly shown in Figure 2, when the mold set 36 is closed, the track 40 is clamped between the clamp member 30 and the platen 18 and centered relative to the mold set 36. On the other hand, the positioning of the track 40, through the rods 44, positions the reel 42 in spaced relation with respect to both the platen 20 and the clamp 30 while centered with respect to the mold set 38. The. clamp member 30 carries a lower flange 46 which, in turn, carries vertically disposed fluid motors 48, 50 which, in turn, carry mold bottoms 52, 54, respectively, for the mold sets 36, 38. When it is desired to open the molds of the mold set 36, it is necessary that the mold bottoms 50 be first moved downwardly so as to strip them from molded articles, after which the mold half set 32 may be moved away from the mold half set 22.The mold bottoms 54 cooperate with the mold halves of the mold set 38 in a like manner. The clamp member 30 also carries an upper flange 54 which is provided with sets of blow mechanisms 58, 60 which are associated with the mold sets 36, 38, respec tively, for closing preforms and introducing a blowing gas under pressure into the preforms which the respective mold set is closed. The platen 20 carries a plurality of fluid cylinders 62 which serve to position the clamp member 30 and the mold components carried thereby. As will be readily apparent from a comparison of the open mold set 38 and the closed mold set 36, the cylinders 62 need shift the clamp member 30 a distance only sufficiently great to clear a molded article longitudinally between the open mold halves of a respective set. Referring once again to Figure 1, it will be seen that the conveyor system 14 includes a pair of parallel runs with each run generally extending through the clamp assembly 12. Each run includes a supply track 64 and a receiving track 66. Each receiving track 66 has an ejection station 68 and a loading station 70 while each supply track 64 has associated therewith an oven 72. At the ends of the two runs are drive sprockets 74, 76 which are driven in unison. The sprockets 75, 76 and all of the tracks of the conveyor system 14 are filled with carriers 78 which in the illustrated form of the invention carry a single preform, but could be constructed to carry several pre forms. Reference is now made to Figures 3 and 4 wherein a a typical track and carrier relationship is illustrated. First of all, each track includes a pair of opposed generally L shaped track elements 80 which define a hori zontal support surface 82 and a vertical bearing surface 84. Each track element 80 is provided with a removable retainer plate 86 secured in place by fasteners 88. Each carrier 78 includes a body 90 which, as is best shown in Figure 3, is generally rectangular in plan, but has tapered sides 92 along one half thereof. The base 90 will be constructed to releasably engage a neck finish on a conventional preform, such as a preform for a beverage bottle. This detail of the carrier 78 may vary, and therefore is not specifically illustrated here. Each carrier has an upwardly projecting circular lug 94 which is engageable with the sprockets 74, 76 so that the sprockets may transport the carriers. Adjacent carriers bear against one another, as shown in Figure 3, and push each other between the sprockets. By relieving inside corner portions of the bases 90, the carriers may pivot relative to one another to pass around the sprockets 74, 76. Each carrier 78 is supported relative to a respective track by two sets of support wheels 96, 98 which are arranged In a triangular pattern. The support wheels 96 are horizontally disposed while the support wheels 98 are vertically disposed, as is clearly shown in Figure 3.The support wheels 98 ride on the support surface 82 while the horizontal wheels 96 bear against the surface 84.It will also be seen that the two horizontal support wheels 96 carried by one side of the base 90 are vertically offset as is best shown in Figure 4. In this manner the carriers 78 are free to be slightly self adjusting. It is to be understood that the sprockets 74, 76 are to be driven in unison and that they will be periodically turned so as to feed the carriers 78 into the clamp 12 in timed relation to the actuation of the clamp 12. It is also to be understood that the operation of the oven 72 should be sequenced with respect to the actuation of the sprockets.It is feasible to make the ovens 72 of a length corresponding to the effective length of the clamp 12 and to control the effective heating within the ovens 72 so that even though preforms to be heated therein are stationary within the ovens, they will be uniformly heated to the desired temperature. Reference is now made to Figures 5 and 6 wherein there is illustrated a modified form of carrier, generally identified by the numeral 100. Each carrier 100 is of a length and construction to receive a number of preforms P corresponding to the number of molds in each of the mold sets 36, 38 so that a single carrier 100 may present to a respective mold set the required number of preforms. Each carrier 100 includes an elongated body member 102 which has rotatably journalled at the opposite sides thereof sets of vertically disposed wheels 104 and horizontally disposed wheels 106. The wheels 104, 106 are engaged with track members 108 which are arranged in opposed pairs and form individual track sections. Each track member 108 includes an outer channel shaped track element 110 which includes a bottom flange 112, a vertical web 114 and a top flange 116. When the heating means for the preforms is to be of the radio frequency type, then each track element 110 will be provided with a channel shaped liner 118 which is preferably formed of a suitable plastic material or other non electrical conductor. It is to be understood that the arrangement of the wheels 104, 106 is such that the body member 102 can freely move between the track members 108 without jamming. Each carrier 100 is provided with a number of support sleeves 120 in accordance with the number of preforms to be carried, and each support sleeve 120 extends through an opening 122 in the body 102 and is carried by a bearing 124 which is seated in the opening and is restrained against vertical movement by way of suitable retaining rings 126. The sleeve 120 is free to move vertically through the bearing 124 in a manner to be described hereinafter. Each sleeve 120 is provided at its lower end with a thickened flange 122 which carries one or more detent units 128. Each detent unit 128 includes a detent body 130 which is externally threaded and which is adjustably positioned within a radial bore 132 which is internally threaded. The inner end of the body 130 has projecting therefrom a ball 134 which is restrained within the detent body 130 against escape and is resiliently urged out of the detent body by resilient means not shown . It is also to be noted that the flange 122 has a tapered opening 137 which facilitates the entrance of the neck finish 138 of a typical preform P into the flange 122 and then into the sleeve 120. It is also to be noted that the typical preform P may be provided with the usual support flange 140 and above the support flange 140 there will be an annular groove 142 into which the detent balls 134 may, snap, thus resiliently retaining the associated preform within the lower portion of the sleeve 120. The sleeve 120 is provided at its upper end with a drive wheel 144 which is engaged with a drive member 146 carried by the flange 116. The illustrated drive member 146 is in the form of a rubber hose or tube which is seated in the flange 116 and which projects from the flange 116 a distance wherein when a drive wheel 144 is adjacent it, it will be flattened to provide an effective frictional contact with the drive wheel 144 so as to rotate the drive wheel 144 and the associated sleeve 120 as the carrier 100 moves along the track member. When the oven of the system employs RF heaters, it is necessary to ground the sleeve and to shield the entire carrier 100. Accordingly, the track section which passes through an oven, to be described hereinafter, is shielded by means of an inverted channel shaped shield 148 having a pair of mounting flanges 150. The mounting flanges 150 carry grounding elements 152 which project generally within the space between the track members 108, as is clearly shown in Figure 6. The body 102 is provided with a horizontal grounding member 154 which includes a generally frustoconical portion and which has extending therethrough a lower part of the sleeve 120. The sleeve 120 carries above the grounding element 154 a collar 156. Between the grounding elements 154 and the flange 122 is a spacer 158 which is preferably formed of an insulating material. In order that the flange 122 may generally clamp the grounding element 154 against the collar 156, there is a spring 160 which is disposed between the bearing 124 and the wheel 144 which urges the sleeve 120 upwardly. The grounding element 154 is provided at its periphery with a shoe element 162 which bears against the grounding plates 152. Referring once again to Figure 5, it will be seen that each body 102 is provided at at least one end thereof with an upstanding abutment member 164 which is utilized in applying a driving force to the body 102 so as to move the carrier 100 along the track. The abutment 164 may, as illustrated in Figure 5, be part of a replaceable end member 166 for the body 102. Reference is now made to Figures 7A 7F and 8 wherein there is illustrated a blowing system, generally identified by the numeral 168, in which the carriers 100 are utilized and wherein the carriers move along track segments formed of track members 108, but wherein for the purpose of simplicity the track segments are not shown. First of all, it is to be understood that there will be a centrally positioned clamp 170 which will be similar to the clamp 12 but wherein the tracks thereof will dif fer from the tracks 40, 42 of the clamp 12 so as to be formed of track members 108 as illustrated in Figures 5 and 6. In accordance with the apparatus shown in Figures 7A 7F, there will be two lanes of movement of the carriers.Each lane will be provided in advance of the clamp 170 and in spaced relation with respect thereto with an oven 172.Each lane will also be provided downstream of the clamp 170 with a blown article bottle ejection station 174 and a preform loading station 176. There will also be at the opposite ends of the two lanes lane transfer stations 178,180. It is to be understood that in the apparatus 168, in order to obtain assured uniform proper heating of the preforms, the preforms will be continuously moved through the ovens 172, but will otherwise be moved in a step bystep manner through the apparatus. Suitable feed means for engaging the abutments 164 will be provided. These feed means include sequentially actuated feed units Fl F10 and continuous feed units C1 and C2. Referring first to Figure 7A, it will be seen that the position of the clamp 170 is one wherein the mold set of lane 1 has just closed and the mold set of lane 2 has just opened. The continuous feed units C1 and C2 are moving carriers through the ovens 172 with a full carrier just beginning to exit from the oven of lane 2 and a carrier being half way out of the oven of lane 1. The carrier at the right end of lane 2is ready to be received in the transfer unit 178 for action by the feed unit F7. Referring now to Figure 7B, it will be seen that the feed unit F7 has now transferred the previously de scribes carrier from lane 2 to lane 1 and the feed unit F4 has been actuated to move the carrier positioned between the oven and the mold set of lane 2 into the clamp, forcing the carrier containing previously blown articles out of the clamp. At this time the mold set of lane 1 is now being operated to effect blowing of the preforms positioned therein and the mold set of lane 2 is open. Referring now to Figure 7C, it will be seen that the carrier is now fully positioned in the mold set of lane 2 and that mold set is ready to close, with the mold set of lane 1 having completed its blowing cycle and ready to open.At this time feed units F1 and F8 have been actuated to move associated carriers along lane 1. Reference is now made to Figure 7D wherein the mold set of lane 1 has now opened and the continuous feed unit C2 has completely moved a carrier out of the oven of lane 1 is ready to be transferred into the clamp 170. At the saone time feed unit F8 has moved the carrier recently transferred from lane 2 to lane 1 into position at the entrance to the oven 172 of lane 1. Feed units F4 and F5 have moved carriers along lane 2 with the carrier carrying heated preforms fully moved within the clamp and the mold unit of lane 2 closed ready to start blowing of the heated preforms. Referring now to Figure 7E, it will be seen that the carrier at the left end of lane 1 has been transferred to lane 2 by the feed unit F2. The mold set of lane 1 is now open and there is being transferred into the mold set of lane 1 a carrier by feed unit F9 and feed Unit F10 is feeding carriers which have passed through the clamp to the left along lane 1. At this time a carrier is appr6xi mately two thirds of the way out of the oven 172 of lane 2 and a carrier has just begun to exit from the oven of lane 1. Referring now to Figure 7F, it will be seen that the mold set of lane 2 has completed its blowing cycle and is ready to open, while the mold set of lane 1 is ready to close, the feed unit F9 having fully fed a carrier carrying heated preforms thereinto. The feed unit F3 is now feeding the carrier which was most recently transferred from lane 1 to lane 2 and the feed unit F6 is feeding the endmost carrier into the transfer unit 178. It will be seen that the continued movement of the carriers as described above, together with the actuation of the clamp 170, will result in the system completing its cycle back to the position of Figure 7A with the carriers in each of lanes 1 and 2 having advanced one step through the system. It is to be understood that the feed units Fl FlO are all moved simultaneously and in unison. The specific details of these feed units in no way form a part of this invention and therefore no further description will be made here. Reference is now made to Figure 9 wherein there is schematically illustrated anotherblowmolding system generally identified by the numeral 184. The blow molding system 184 may be similar to the blow molding system 10 and the blow molding system 168, but differs from both in that there are two continuous paths 186, 188 through which carriers are moved. Each continuous path 186, 188 will be provided with an oven 190 in advance of a clamp 192 and with a blown article ejection station 194 and a preform loading station 196 downstream of the clamp 192. The system 184 has an advantage over the systems 10 and 168 in that each continuous path 186, 188 may be provided with carriers for carrying preforms of different types from which the resultant blow molded articles may be different. Further, the clamp 192, which is provided with two mold sets 198, 200, may have the mold sets composed of different types of molds. For example, in the case of the molded articles being bottles, the mold set 198 could be of a configuration for molding the same size bottle as the mold set 200, but of a different configuration. In a like manner, the bottles molded within the mold sets 198, 200 may be of different sizes and the number of bottles which are blow molded in the respective sets may differ in number, the number of bottles decreasing as the size of the bottle increases.For example, ten half liter bottles could be blow molded in one mold set and six two liter bottles molded in the other mold set. Referring now to Figure 10, there is illustrated a blow molding apparatus generally identified by the numeral 210. The illustrated apparatus is of a plural station type similar to that shown in Figure 8, but wherein only one line of the track extends through the clamp and includes an oven 212 and a clamp 214. PreformsP which are to be blow molded are transferred between a loading station 215, through the oven 212 and through the clamp assembly 214 to a discharge station 218 by way of carriers 220. Suitable track means for controlling the movement of the pallets 220 has been schematically illustrated and is identified by the numeral 222. In accordance with this invention, an empty pallet 220 is loaded with preforms P at the station 216 and then is moved into and through the oven 212. The pallet 220 containing the heated preforms is then shifted to another portion of the track 222 for movement into the clamp assembly 214 and within the clamp 214 the preforms P are blow molded to the desired configuration, prefer ably in the form of bottles. The blow molded articles, still carried by the pallet 220, are directed to the discharge station 218 where the blow molded articles are discharged. The empty pallet 220 is then shifted to the preform loading station 216. Referring now to Figure 11, it will be seen that the clamp 214 is of a construction very similar to that of the clamp 12 and includes a frame generally identified by the numeral 223. The frame 223 includes a pair of end members 224, 226 which are transversely spaced and con nected together by guide rods 228 which are preferably four in number and which are arranged in a rectangular pattern when viewed in longitudinal section. There is mounted on the guide rods 228 for transverse reciprocating movement a clamp member generally identified by the numeral 230. The clamp member 230 is of an I section and may be considered to be an I beam. This is clearly il lustrated in Figure 11. The clamp member 230 may thus be described as including a longitudinally elongated vertical web 232 and upper and lower flanges 234, 236. The flanges 234, 236 have extending therethrough the guide rods 228 and serve to mount the clamp member 230 for controlled transverse sliding movement. In order to provide for the transverse recipro catory movement of the clamp member 230, there is carried by the end member 236 extensible fluid motors 238 which, as is best shown in Figure 12, are also mounted in a rectangular pattern. The fluid motors 238 include piston rods 240 which extend through opposite ends of respective cylinders 242 and through the end members 224, 226. The clamp member 230 is suitably fixed to the piston rods 240 for movement by the extensible fluid members or motors 238 in a transverse direction as determined by the guide rods 228. The clamp 214 also includes two mold units 244, 246 which are positioned on opposite sides of the clamp member 230. The mold unit 244 is of a vertically split configuration and includes a fixed mold half 248 which is secured to the side member 224 and a movable mold half 250 which is carried by the clamp member 230. At this time it is pointed out that the mold unit 244 is of a plural cavity mold unit with the cavities being in longitudinally adjacent relation and the cavities being on the order of twelve to sixteen in number although, in this illustrated embodiment of the invention for illustrative purposes only, the apparatus is intended to handle and simultaneously to blow mold only seven preforms. The mold unit 246 is similar to the mold unit 244 and includes a fixed mold half 252 which is secured to the side member 226 and a movable mold half 254 which is carried by the clamp member 230. On one side of the clamp member 230 there is mounted on a suitable transverse support 256 a carrier or pallet support 258 for transverse movement both together with the clamp member 230 and relative thereto.A similar carrier or pallet support 260 is mounted on the opposite side of the clamp member 230 on a transverse support 261. Each of the pallet supports 258, 260 is of a cross section to have telescoped therein one of the pallets 220, as is shown in Figure 11. In order that preforms P carried by a pallet 220 and clamped within one of the mold units 244, 246 may be blow molded under the influence of internal gaseous pressure, there is carried by the flange 234 and the clamp member 230 two sets of inflation apparatus 262, 264. The inflation apparatus 262 is fixedly positioned in a transverse direction relative to the mold half 250 of the mold unit 244 while the inflation unit 264 is fixedly positioned relative to the mold half 254 of the mold unit 246. It is to be understood that each inflation unit 262, 264 will include an inflation element for each mold of the respective mold unit. Each inflation element 265 will be of a generally conventional construction and includes means for forming a seal with the interior of the mouth of the preform P and means for introducing a blowing gas into the preform.Further, each inflation element may include a suitable guide rod or like device for assuring the continued centering of the preform within its respective blow mold. In the event the mold units 244, 246 shall be of the type requiring a separate bottom portion 266, 268, the bottom portions will be carried by the lower flange 236 of the clamp member 230. The mounting of the mold bottom portions 266, 268 is illustrated as being by way of an extensible fluid motor 270 carried by the flange 236. It is to be understood that other modes of mounting the mold bottom portions may be utilized. In the operation of the embodiment of Figures 10 12, previously formed preforms P at ambient temperature are loaded into a carrier or pallet 220 at the loading station 216 and then moved through the oven 212 where the preforms are heated to the required temperature. The heated preforms are then transferred along the track 222 and into the clamp 214. When a pallet 220 is pushed into the clamp 214, it displaces a like pallet previously positioned within the clamp assembly. With reference toFigure 11, it will be seen that when the clamp is in the position where the mold unit 244 is closed, the mold unit 244 is closed, the mold unit 246 is open. Thus, a preselected number of preforms, as determined by the pallet 220, may be pushed into the pallet support 260 for blow molding within themold unit 246. With the preforms P so positioned within the clamp, the fluid motors 238 are actuated to shift the clamp member 230 to the right. As the clamp member 230 moves to the right, it moves with it the pallet support 260 until the pallet support 260 is positioned relative to the mold half 252, after which the mold half 254 closes relative to the mold half 252. At this time, the clamp 214 is in position for 1 blow molding the preforms positioned within the mold unit 246, 2 removing the previously molded articles bottles from the mold unit 244, and 3 receiving a new set of preforms within the mold unit 244. After the preforms P within the mold unit 246 have been blow molded, the clamp member 230 is now movable back to the left, closing the mold unit 244 on the newly positioned preforms while opening the mold unit 246 and aligning the carrier support 260 with the track 222 for receiving a next carrier and the preforms suspended therefrom. It is to be understood that an automatic controller may be utilized for the actuation of the clamp assembly 214 in timed relation to the actuation of the feed mechanism for the carriers. Although only preferred embodiments of the invention have been specifically illustrated and described herein, it is to be understood that minor variations may be made in the various systems, the carriers, the clamps and the track elements without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.