# Attractant for the beet armyworm moth.

## Abstract
The invention relates to an attractant for the beet armyworm moth Spodoptera exigua wholly or partially consisting of a mixture of cast two compounds selected from the group of a cis 9 tetradecenyl acetate b cis 11 tetradecenyl acetate c cis 9,trans 12 tetradecadienyl acetate d cis 9,cis 12 tetradecadienyl acetate, and e tetradecyl acetate, with the exception of mixtures of compound a with compound b and of compound a with compound c . Further, the invention relates to an attractant com position consisting of one of the abovementioned at tractant mixtures combined with a carrier, as well as to an insect trap provided with one of the abovemen tioned attractant mixtures or with an attractant com position. Also, the invention relates to a process for controlling the beet armyworm moth in which the above mentioned attractants or attractant compositions are used.

## Claims
CLAIMS. 1. Attractant for the beet armyworm moth Spodoptera exigua , wholly or partially consisting of a mixture of at least two compounds selected from the group of a cis 9 tetradecenyl acetate b cis ll tetradecenyl acetate c cis 9, trans 12 tetradecadienyl acetate d cis 9, cis 12 tetradecadienyl acetate, and e tetradecyl acetate, with the exception of mixtures of compound a with compound b and of compound a with compound c . 2. Composition for attracting the male beet armyworm moth consisting of an attractant according to claim 1, combined with a carrier. 3. Insect trap provided with an attractant according to claim 1 or with a composition according to claim 2. 4. A process for controlling the beet armyworm moth Spodoptera exiua ,in which said moth is exposed to an attractant, characterized by using a mixture as defined in claim 1 or a composition according to claim 2 as the attractant. 5. The process of claim 4, characterized in that the attractant is used in an insect trap which is located in an area which is to be protected against said moth. 6. The process according to claim 4, characterized by using the attractant to permeate the air in, around or over an area which is to be protected against said moth so that the attractant concentration in said air will be such that the male moths will become confused.

## Description
Attractant for the beet armyworm moth. The present invention relates to an attractant for the beet armyworm moth Spodoptera exigua , to a composition for attracting the male beet armyworm moth, to an insect trap and to a process for controlling the beet armyworm moth. Effective control of the beet armyworm moth is highly desirable as the caterpillar of this insect causes severe damage to a great variety of cultural crops in tropical and subtropical areas. It was found that the sex pheromone of the female beet armyworm moth contains the following compounds a cis 9 tetradecenyl acetate b cis Il tetradecenyl acetate c cis 9, trans 12 tetradecadienyl acetate d cis 9, cis 12 tetradecadienyl acetate, and e tetradecyl acetate. Among the abovementioned compounds compound c , the cis 9,trans12 tetradecadienyl acetate is known as a component of the sex pheromone of Spodoptera exigua. See Ann. Entomol. Soc. Am.65, 398 1972 .Compound a , the cis 9 tetradecenyl acetate is known as a component of the pheromone of the fall armyworm moth, Spodoptera frugiperda 3.E. Smith see 3. Econ. Entomol. 60 5 , page 1270 1967 .A mixture of compound a with compound c is thc pheromone of theSouthern Armyworm Moth, Prodenia Spodoptera eridania Cramer see Science 170, pages 542 543 1970 . However, in field tests with a Spodoptera exigua neither the separate compounds a and c , neither mixtures of a and c ratios varying from 100 a to 100 c showed any attracting activity for the male beet armyworm moth. See 3. Econ. Entomol.69 , Nr. 3, pages 324 326 1976 . Compound b , the cis ll tetradecenyl acetate is known as a component of the pheromone of the red banded leaf roller moth Argyrotaenia velutinana Walker 0 , see Nature 219 1968 , page 513. This compound is also known from 3. Econ. Ent. 63, Nr. 3 1970 , page 779 as a component of the pheromone of the European corn borer, Ostrinia nubilalis Hübner . Compound d , the cis 9,cis 12 tetradecadienyl acetate has been synthesized by Fukami and coworkers see F. Matsamura,G.M. Boush andT.Misato Environmental Toxicology of Pesticides, page 571, AcademicPress, New York 1972 . Further, Dutch patent application 7205229 and Science 175 1972 , 1469 70 disclose the pheromone of the summer fruit tortrix Adoxophyes orana as a mixture of cis 9 tetradecenyl acetate a and cis lltetradecenyl acetate b The invention relates to an attractant for the beet armyworm moth Spodoptera exigua , wholly or partially consisting of a mixture of at least two compounds selected from the group of a cis 9 tetradecenyl acetate b cis ll tetradecenyl acetate c cis 9, trans 12 tetradecadienyl acetate d cis 9,cis 12 tetradecadienyl acetate, and e tetradecyl acetate with the exception of mixtures of compound a with compound b and of compound a with compound c . Field tests have shown that the mixtures according to the invention have an attracting activity which is about the same as that of female moths. The invention also relates to a composition for attracting male beet armyworm moths consisting of one of the above defined attractants in combination with a carrier. Suitable carrier materials are, for example, inert liquid or solid carriers, such as ethanol or methanol, or e.g. paper and other porous cellulose materials, rubber, and synthetic foams. Also, carriers may be plastics which are permeable to the molecules of the attractant components, for example polyethylene and or water swellable polymers or polymer mixtures. This kind of carriers can be used for the preparation of compositions in the form of capsules containing an amount of the attractant according to the invention, which attractant is released from the capsule to the surrounding area during an extended period of time.A similar effect may obtained by incorporating the attractants according to the invention in microcapsules. The invention also relates to an insect trap provided with one of the above defined attractant mixtures, optionally combined with a carrier to form a composition. Such insect traps are known per se, for example from 3. Econ. Ent. 63, Nr. 2 1970 370 373. Simple insect traps which can be handled easily consist of a plastic tube open at both ends and having a circular or polyangular, for example triangular cross section, a diameter of about 10 25 cm and a length of about 2 to 3 times the diameter. A sticky glue may be applied to the bottom of the tube. The trap is provided with an amount of the attractant according to the invention, preferably in form of a polyethylene capsule filled with the attractant. Finally, the invention relates to a process for controlling the beet armyworm moth, in which said moth is exposed to an attractant.According to the invention a mixture of at least two compounds selected from the group of the abovementioned compounds a to e inclusive, with the exception of mixtures of compound a with compound b and of compound a with compound c , is used as the attractant. This process may be carried out by placing insect traps containing one of the abovementioned mixtures in an area to be protected against the beet armyworm moth. Alternatively, the concentration of a mixture according to the invention in the air above the area to be protected may be made so high that the mHle moths will become confused and will be unable to find their female partners. This is effected by permeating the air in, around or over the area to be protected with a sufficient amount of a mixture according to the invention, preferably in the form of a composition releasing the attractant at a substantially constant rate during an extended period of time.