# Process for formulating a medicated animal feed premix.

## Abstract
A process of formulating a medicated animal feed premix comprising a synthetic drug, carrier and binder, for the pur pose of reducing carryover of the synthetic drug to subse quent lots of animal feed processed in the feed mill.

## Claims
Claims 1. A method of formulating a synthetic drug or a pnysiologically acceptable salt thereof as a medicated animal feed premix having reduced potential for carryover of the synthetic drug in feed mill operations, such method comprising the steps of A. forming a moist but free flowing reticulate material having an overall moisture content of from 43 to 50 per cent by weight by intimately blending a mixture of the synthetic drug, a finely ground physiologically acceptable carrier and water to form an intimate aamixture, and optionally blending said intimate admixture with a physiologically acceptable binder in an amount of up to 10 per cent on a dry weight basis B. extruding the blend of A under pressure through round perforations of from 0.5 mm. to 1.5 mm. in diameter, forming an extrudate of elongated strands having a length exceeding the cross sectional dimension C. reducing the strands of extrudate B into particles of from 1.0 to 2.5 times their cross sectional dimension in length D. drying the particles from C at a tempera ture ranging from room temperature to 700C. to a residual moisture content of from 5 to 12 percent and E. passing the dried particles from D over meshed wire screens to remove granules greater than 20 mesh and less than 80 mesh, yielding particles in size from 0.85 mm. to 0.18 mm. in diameter. 2. The method of Claim 1 wherein the process is carried out with sulfamethazine as the synthetic drug. 3. The method of Claim 1 wherein the process is carried out with nicarbazin as the synthetic drug. 4. The method of Claim 1 wherein the process is carried out with a synthetic drug, or physiologically acceptable salt, thereof, in combination with a fermentation derived antibiotic, or a physiologicallyacceptable salt thereof. 5. The method of any one of Claims 1 to 4 wherein the carrier is solvent extracted soybean feed. 6. The method of any one of Claims 1 to 4 wherein the carrier is alfalfa meal. 7. The method of any one of Claims 1 to 4 wherein the carrier is soybean mill run. 8. The method of any of Claims 1 to 7 wherein the binder is hydrolyzed starch. 9. The method of any one of Claims 1 to 8 wherein the reduction of the strands of extrudate into particles is accomplished by contacting said extrudate with a circular frictional plate mounted horizontally in a vertically disposed stationary cylindrical vessel rotating said plate at a speed of from 1200 to 1800 rpm. to overcome the inertia of said extrudate imparting velocity to said extrudate such that said extrudate moves in a curved path toward the periphery of said plate establishing a moving doughnut shaped ring nf said extrudate and continuing such movement until such extrudate is reduced to particles of from 1.0 to 9.,5 times their cross sectional dimension in length. 10. The method of any one of Claims 1 to 9 comprising the additional step of thereafter mixing the medicated animal feed premix with a suitable feed ration in a feed mill for use as food by an animal.

## Description
Process For Formulating a Medicated Animal Feed Premix The present invention relates to a method of formulating a medicated animal feed premix comprising a synthetic drug, carrier and binder, for the purpose of reducing carryover of the synthetic drug to subsequent lots of animal feed processed in the feed mill. Ludwig, in U.S. Patent No. 4,048,268, teaches substantially the same process used in the present invention. The purpose of that invention was, however, related to a method of stabilizing the microorganism produced antibiotic tylosin, which is susceptible to deterioration causing a considerable loss of potency, but having no carryover problem. The apparatus typically used in the process of the present invention is disclosed in U.S. PatentNo. RE27214, or U.S. Patent No. 3,579,719. These patents teach the use of that apparatus for making spherical granules. This invention provides a method of formulating a synthetic drug or a physiologically acceptable salt thereof as a medicated animal feed premix having reduced potential for carryover of the synthetic drug in feed mill operations, such method comprising the steps of A. forming a moist but free flowing particulate material having an overall moisture content of from 43 to 50 per cent by weight by intimately blending a mixture of the synthetic drug, a finely ground physiologically acceptable carrier and water to form an intimate admixture, and optionally blending said intimate admixture with a physiologically acceptable binder in an amount of up to 10 per cent on a dry weight basis B. extruding the blend of A under pressure through round perforations of from 0.5 mm. to 1.5 mm. in diameter, forming an extrudate of elongated strands having a length exceeding the cross sectional dimension C. reducing the strands of extrudate B into particles of from 1.0 to 2.5 times their cross sectional dimension in length D. drying the particles from C at a tempera ture ranging from room temperature to 700c. to a residual moisture content of from 5 to 12 percent and E. passing the dried particles from D over meshed wire screens to remove granules greater than 20 mesh and less than 80 mesh, yielding particles in size from 0.85 mm. to 0.18 mm. in diameter. The remaining uniform particles are termed minigranules . The term synthetic drug has a specific definition in connection with this application. Synthetic refers to the method of preparation of the compound, meaning the drug was completely prepared using chemical compounds, and no part of the drug was fermentation derived. Drug refers to an animal medicament, a substance for veterinary use in animals such as a growth promotant, coccidiostat, antimicrobial, antibacterial, anthelmintic, or antihistomonad. The term feed premix, as used in the present application, is defined as the synthetic drug, in the form of the minigranule alone or, more typically, diluted with a suitable edible diluent. Either type of premix is intended to be further diluted with the animal ration, and the final feed mixture obtained then may be formed into pellets, if desired. The carrier used in the first step of the present process can be any physiologically acceptable carrier. Suitable physiologically acceptable carriers include finely divided materials derived from cereal grains oil seeds and their by products forages, silages, and their by products by products of the lumber, sugar, fruit juice, and vegetable juice industries clays such as diatomaceous earth and vermiculite. Because of their widespread availability, solvent extracted soybean feed, soybean mill run, corn flour, milo flour, wheat middlings, or alfalfa meal are preferred. Especially preferred carriers for use in this novel process include solvent extracted soybean feed, corn flour, and alfalfa meal, with the carrier of choice being solventextracted soybean feed. The carrier is suitably used in from 50 to 98 percent on a dry weight basis to form the admixture. Physiologically acceptable binders found useful in preparing the admixture include starch, gelatin, polyvinylpyrrolidone, soy protein, cellulose, bentonite, acacia powder and lignin sulfonate. Of these, starch is the binder of choice. However, as noted below in Example 5, it is not always necessary to add a separate binder since another component may additionally serve as a binder. The binder may be present in up to 10 percent by weight of the admixture on a dry weight basis, preferably from 3 to 5 percent by weight on a dry weight basis. The exact percentage of the synthetic drug in minigranules prepared according to the present invention will vary somewhat with the identity of carrier and other factors. Generally, the minigranules will contain from 1 to 40 percent of the synthetic drug on a dry weight basis. Where the carrier is solventextracted soybean feed or alfalfa meal, the full range of 1 to 40 percent is possible. However, with certain other carriers, less than 40 percent of the synthetic drug is possible. For example, those minigranules prepared using a carrier selected from the group consisting of corn flour, milo flour, soybean mill run, and wheat middlings, can contain from 1 to 25 percent of the synthetic drug on a dry weight basis.These differences in percent weight content of the drug are due in part to the variation in ability of the carriers to absorb moisture and to thereby form a suitable admixture for processing through the extruder and thence to the forming of the minigranules from the strands of extrudate. The percent of synthetic drug, physiologically acceptable carrier, and binder is calculated on a dry weight basis and is considered without reference to the water or other components present. Thus, these three components together constitute 100 percent of the composition for purposes of calculating individual percentages. The process of the present invention used to control the carryover of a synthetic drug is described in detail below. In step A of the process, the synthetic drug, or a suitable physiologically acceptable salt thereof, a suitable carrier, and some water, are blended together in a blender. Suitable type blenders include a ribbon blender, tumbling cone, twin shell blender, vertical mixer, paddle mixer, sigma arm mixer, pony mixer, or the like. Preferably, the mixing is done in a ribbon blender. Although unnecessary in production type equipment, it may be desirable in pilot plant equipment to empty the ribbon blender into a suitable container, and the sides, bottom and blades of the ribbon blender be scraped clean. All of the material is then returned to the blender for additional mixing. The optional Hinder, usually along with some water, is added to the admixture in the blender and mixing continued for as long a time as necessary to provide intimate mixing of the various components with one another. The amount of binder required is calcu lated on a dry weight basis and is up to 10 percent by weight, preferably from 3 to 5 percent by weight of the components.It has been found that reasonably prolonged mixing does not adversely affect the properties of the material being blended for processing in the extruder, the next step in the process. At the conclusion of this mixing, the mixture appears as a moist but free flowing particulate material which forms a dough when compressed.This moist but free flowing particulate material may have an overall moisture content of from 43 to 50 percent by weight, most typically and preferably about 47 percent by weight. The admixture prepared as described above is next introduced into an extruder. Extruders are well known to the art. Generally, the material to be extruded is fed into a hopper over one end of a rotating screw auger disposed in a cylinder. The screw auger transports the material to be extruded the length of the cylinder and discharges said material into an annular space defined on one or more sides by a perforated plate. The material is forced through the perforations of the plate by the pressure created by transporting more of said material into said annular space thancan be confined therein. The faster the material accumulates in the annular space, the greater the pressure being exerted to force said material through the perforations in said plate. The screen or perforated plate through which the admixture is extruded suitably contains ound perforations of from 0.5 mm. to 1.5 mm. in diameter. The perforation diameter of choice in the plate is 0.8 mm.This diameter size of extrudate results in a range of particle sizes which is most useful for uniform distribution in animal feeds. The elongated strands of extrudate produced by the extruder will vary in length from something a little more than the cross sectional dimension to a measurement many times the breadth of said strand. The length of strands will vary with the relation of the perforated plate to the vertical. A plate set on the vertical will form strands having a shorter length than those coming from a plate facing down. Furthermore, the cross sectional dimension of the perforations also influences the length of the strands. In any event, the strands of extrudate do not tend to stick together under normal handling and can be spread on trays for drying or added directly to a particle forming apparatus without encountering aggregation, agglomeration, coalescence, or disintegration. While it is possible to remove the excess moisture from the strands of extrudate prior to forming the minigranules, it is preferred in the present process that such particles must be formed before the excess moisture is removed. The extrudate strands are therefore divided into particles, the length of which particles varies from 1.0 to 2.5 times their crosssectional dimension. The division of the extrudate strands into short lengths is accomplished by contacting the strands with a moving frictional plate, said plate being of either a flat or curved form and having either a smooth or serrated surface, preferably the latter, said frictional plate moving at a velocity sufficient to overcome the inertia of said extrudate. The moving frictional plate sets up a rolling, tumbling bed of extrudate and in such bed, the elongated strands are divided into particles of from 1.0 to 2.5 times their crosssectional dimension in length.Illustrative of devices wherein this operation can be performed are a coating pans used in pharmaceutical and confectionary industries and well known in the art, which pans can be operated satisfactorily whether set in a vertical plane or tilted at an angle b granulating pans, also well known in the art, such as those used in pelletizing taconite iron ore for shipment and characterized by being of large diameter and with a relatively low integral circumferential side wall confining the particles on the flat surface these pans are generally operated at a slight angle, perhaps 150 off the horizontal and are rotated slowly c an apparatus for dividing moist plastic extrusions into short lengths, comprising a stationary vertical cylindrical container having a rotatable flat or outwardly curved circular frictional plate disposed therein, said plate being disposed on a shaft at approximately a right angle thereto, such device being the subject of U.S. PatentNo. RE27214, or U.S. Patent No. 3,579,719. Preferably, the extrudate reduction is accomplished using the device of c above by 1 contacting said extrudate with a circular frictional plate mounted horizontally in a vertically disposed stationary cylindrical vessel 2 rotating said plateat a speed sufficient to overcome the inertia of said extrudate 3 imparting velocity to said extrudate such that said extrudate moves in a curved path toward the periphery of said plate 4 establishing a moving doughnut shaped ring of said extrudate and 5 continuing such movement until said extrudate is reduced to particles of from 1.0 to 2.5 times their crosssectional dimension in length. The circular frictional plate is suitably operated at speeds ranging from 1200 to 1800 rpm. The minigranules produced in the previous step are dried until they contain from 5 to 12 percent, preferably about 10 percent residual moisture. The drying operation can be suitably accomplished by spreading said particles on trays and air drying at room temperature by kiln drying at temperatures up to about 700C. or by loading said particles into a fluidized bed dryer and blowing warm approximately 700C. dry air through the fluidized bed of said particles, this latter being the method preferred. The final step in this carryover control.method is the necessity to pass the dried minigranules over meshed wire screens to remove granules greater than 20 mesh and less than 80 mesh. The acceptable particles collected will range in size from 0.85 mm to 0.18 mm in diameter. The dust free minigranules containing the synthetic drug now possess the proper characteristics to greatly reduce the problem of carrying over the drug to subsequent feed lots. A number of commercially available synthetic drugs may be used in the process taught by this invention to reduce carryover of those drugs in feed mills.Representative examples include, but are not limited to acetyl sulfamethoxypyridazineNl acetylsulfanilamide acetyl sulfisoxazole amprolium arprinocid arsanilic acid buquinolate carbadox carbarsone clopidol coumaphos decoqu inate dibutyltin dilaurate dichlorvos dimetridazole dinitolmide ethopabate furaltadone furazolidone halofuginone ipronidazole levamisole hydrochloride melengestrol acetate nicarbazin nifuraldezone nitarsone nitrofurantoin nitrofurazone n i tromide phenothiazine phthalylsulfathiazole piperazine pyrantel robenidine hydrochloride ronidazole roxarsone sodium arsanilate succinylsulfathiazole sul fabenz sulfabenzamide sulfabromomethazine sulfachloropyrazine sulfachloropyridazine sulfadiazine sulfadiazine sodium sulfadimethoxine sul faethidole sulfaethoxypyridazine sul faguanidine sulfamerazine sulfamerazine sodium sulfamethazine sulfamethizole sul famethoxypyr ida zine sulfamoxole sulfanilamidomethanesulfonic acid triethanolamine salt sulfanilic acid sulfanitran sulfaphenazole sulfapyrazine sulfapyridine sulfaquinoxal ine sul far sphenamine sulfathiazole sulfathiazole sodium sulfazamet sulfisomidine sulfisoxazole thiabendazole and the like. The process of the present invention may be used not only for a synthetic drug alone, and its physiologically acceptable salts, but also for synthetic drugs in combination with fermentation derived antibiotics. The following examples further illustrate this invention. Example 1 Finely ground solvent extracted soybean feed carrier , 918 g., was put into a small ribbon mixer and combined with 375 g. sulfamethazine powder. To 873 ml.water was added the mixture and the mixer was run for about 10 ininutes. The mixer was emptied into a sus ably container and the sides, bottom and blades of the mixer were scraped clean. All of the material was then returned to the mixer for an additional 10 minutes of mixing. A binder was prepared by mixing 68 g. starch with 68 ml. cold water and then adding 272 ml. boiling water while stirring. This procedure provided adequate and uniform hydrolysis of the starch. The hydrolyzed starch was then added to the material in the mixer, and 15 minutes of mixing was carried out. At the end of the mixing time, the mixture appeared as a moist but free flowing particulate material which formed a dough when compressed. The mixture had a moisture content of about 47 percent. Using an EXD 60 double screw extruder, this free flowing particulate material was extruded through 0.8 mm round perforations into elongated strands. The elongated strands of extrudate were removed from the extruder and contacted with a circular frictional plate mounted horizontally in a vertically disposed stationary cylindrical vessel. The plate was rotated at a speed of about 1800 rpm., imparting a velocity to the extrudate sufficient to overcome the inertia of said extrudate and to establish a moving doughnut shaped ring of said strands of extrudate. The rotational movement was continued for about 30 seconds, or until said strands of extrudate were divided into particles of from 1.0 to 2.5 times their crosssectional dimension in length. The particles were then removed and dried in a fluid bed type dryer at a temperature of up to 600C., over a period of about 15 minutes. The particles, or minigranules, after drying, had a moisture content of about 10 percent. The particles containing sulfamethazine were finally passed over 20 and 80 mesh wire screens. This gave acceptable particles ranging in size from 0.85 mm.to 0.18 mm. in diameter containing sulfamethazine at a rate of about 125 g. of sulfamethazine per pound. Example 2 2082 g. solvent extracted soybean feed was added to a ribbon mixer along with 3397 g. tylosin phosphate concentrate and 1500 g. sulfamethazine powder.To this was added 1699 ml. water and the mixer was run for about 10 minutes. The mixer was emptied and scraped clean. All of the material was then returned to the mixer for an additional 10 minutes of mixing. The binder was prepared by mixing 163 g.starch powder with 163 ml. water at room temperature and then adding 652 ml. boiling water. This material was added to the material in the mixer and an additional 15 minutes of mixing was performed. After mixing, the mixture appeared as a moist but free flowing particulate material with a moisture content of 45 . Using an EXD 60 double screw extruder, the free flowing particulate was then extruded through 0.5 mm. round perforations into elongated strands. The elongated strands of extrudate produced were contacted with a circular frictional plate mounted horizontally in a vertically disposed stationary cylin drical vessel. The plate was rotated at a speed of about 1800 rpm., imparting a velocity to the extrudate sufficient to overcome the inertia of said extrudate and to establish a moving doughnut shaped ring of said strands of extrudate. The rotational movement was continued for about 30 seconds or until said strands of extrudate were divided into particles of from 1.0 to 2.5 times their cross sectional dimension in length. The particles were then removed and dried in a fluid bed dryer at about 500C. for 30 minutes. The dried minigranules were sieved through 20 mesh and 80 mesh wire screens, said particles then containing tylosin and sulfamethazine at a rate of about 125 g. of each per pound. Example 3 To a large ribbon mixer was added 6.659 kgo solvent extracted soybean feed with 2.841 kg. sulfamethazine and 6.368 1. of water. The mixer was run for about 10 minutes, emptied and scraped clean. All of the material was then returned to the mixer for an additional 10 minutes of mixing. The binder was prepared by mixing 500 g. of starch with 500 ml. water at room temperature and then adding 2 1. of boiling water while stirring. The binder was then added to the material in the mixer and mixed for about 15 minutes. At the end of the mixing time, the mixture appeared as a moist but free flowing particulate material which formed a dough when compressed. The mixture had a moisture content of about 47 percent. Using an EXD 60 double screw extruder, this free flowing particulate material was extruded through 0.8 mm. round perforations into elongated strands. The elongated strands of extrudate were removed from the extruder and contacted with a circular frictional plate mounted horizontally in a vertically disposed stationary cylindrical vessel. The plate was rotated at a speed of about 1800 rpm., imparting a velocity to the extrudate sufficient to overcome the inertia of said extrudate and to establish a moving doughnut shaped ring of said strands of extrudate. The rotational movement was continued for about 20 seconds, or until said strands of extrudate were divided into particles of from 1.0 to 2.5 times their cross sectional dimension in length. The particles were then removed and dried in a fluid bed type dryer at a temperature of up to 700C., over a period of about 15 minutes. The particles, or minigranules, after drying, had a moisture content of about 10 percent.These minigranules were finally passed over 20 mesh and 80 mesh wire screens to yield acceptable particles in the size range from 0.85 mm. to 0.18 mm. in diameter. The minigranules contained sulfamethazine, as determined by assay, at a rate of 136.2 g. per pound theoretical rate 125 g. per pound . Example 4 A 9.988 kg. quantity of solvent extracted soybean feed was added to a ribbon mixer. To this was added 4.262 kg. sulfamethazine and 9.552 1. of water and the mixer was run for about 10 minutes, emptied and scraped clean. All of the mixture was then put back into the bowl and mixed for an additional 10 minutes A binder was prepared by slurrying 750 g. starch in 750 ml. water at room temperature, and then adding 3 1. boiling water and stirring. The hydrolyzed starch was then added to the material in the mixer, and mixing was carried out for 15 minutes. This dough, following mixing, had a moisture content of 47 percent. The free flowing particulate material, or dough, was extruded using an EXD 60 double screw extruder. The dough was extruded through 0.8 mm. round perforations into elongated strands. The elongated strands of extrudate were removed from the extruder and contacted with a circular frictional plate mounted horizontally in a vertically disposed stationary cylindrical vessel. The plate was rotated at a speed of about 1800 rpm., imparting a velocity to the extrudate sufficient to overcome the inertia of said extrudate and to establish a moving doughnut shaped ring of said strands of extrudate. The rotational movement was continued for about 20 seconds, or until said strands of extrudate were divided into particles of from 1.0 to 2.5 times their cross sectional dimension in length. The particles were then removed and dried in a fluid bed type dryer at a temperature of up to 700C., over a period of about 15 minutes. The minigranules at this point had a moisture content of 10 percent.The particles were then sieved using 20 mesh and 80 mesh wire screens giving acceptally sized par tiches containing sulfamethazine, as determined by assay, at a rate of 130.4 g. per pound theoretical rate 125 g. per pound . Example 5 To a small ribbon mixer was added 310 g. of a dried mycelial cake containing monensin, .50 g. nicarbazin and 15 g. mineral oil and was mixed until the oil was uniformly dispersed. To this mixture was added 125 g. solvent extracted soybean feed and 195 ml.water, mixed for 10 minutes, emptied and scraped clean. A binder is not necessary in this minigranule because of the natural consistency of the mycelial cake. The mixture had a moisture content of about 28 percent. Using an EXD 60 double screw extruder, this free flowing particulate material was extruded through 0.8 mm. round perforations into elongated strands. The elongated strands of extrudate were removed from the extruder and contacted with a circular frictional plate mounted horizontally in a vertically disposed stationary cylindrical vessel. The plate was rotated at a speed of about 1800 rpm., imparting a velocity to the extrudate sufficient to overcome the inertia of said extrudate and to establish a moving doughnut shaped ring of said strands of extrudate. The rotational movement was continued for about 20 seconds, or until said strands of extrudate were divided into particles of from 1.0 to 2.5 times their cross sectional dimension in length. The particles were then removed and dried in a fluid bed type dryer at a temperature of 600C. The minigranules were finally passed over 20 mesh and 80 mesh wire screens to yield acceptable particles in the size range from 0.85 mm. to 0.18 mm. in diameter. The minigranules contained nicarbazin and monensin at a rate of about 100 g. per kilogram each. Cross Contamination Study A trial was conducted at a noncommercial feed mill to compare the unintentional contamination of nonmedicated feedstuffs by two tylosin sulfamethazine premixes. Formulation A comprises a portion of a commercial tylosin sulfamethazine premix, referred to asTylan 40 Sulfa Premix. This formulation was prepared by combining tylosin, as prepared by the process described by Ludwig in U.S. Patent No. 4,048,268 used to impart stability to the antibiotic , hereafter referred to as granulated tylosin concentrate, and untreated sulfamethazine powder. Formulation B was prepared by mixing granulated tylosin concentrate, identical to that in formulation A, and sulfamethazine, as prepared in Examples 3 and 4 of the present application, referred to as granulated sulfamethazine. Each formulation was diluted with fine rice hulls and antidusting oil which gave premixes with tylosin and sulfamethazine concentrations of about 40 g. per pound each.Table 1 gives the ingredients of the two premixes evaluated in the cross contamination study. Table 1Sulfamethazine Powder Premix Amount Used kg. Granulated tylosin concentrate 7554.5Sulfamethazine powder 2349.65Fine rice hulls 13608.0Spray oil coparaffinate 306.3Granulated Sulfamethazine Premix Amount Used kg. Granulated tylosin concentrate 15.78Granulated sulfamethazine 7.09 from Example 3 at 136.2 g. lb. Granulated sulfamethazine 6.98 from Example 4 at 130.4 g. lb. Fine rice hulls 14.61Antidusting oil 0.907 Each premix was then added to 3 separate quantities of swine feed. Each lot of medicated swine feed weighed 3000 lbs. and gave a concentration of 100 g. ton 110 ppm of tylosin and sulfamethazine in the 3 lots of medicated swine feed formulated with sulfamethazine powder and the 3 lots of medicated swine feed formulated with granulated sulfamethazine. An unmedicated lot of swine feed was analyzed to determine the background level of sulfamethazine in it, as well. The seven 3000 lb. lots of swine feed were mixed, conveyed, pelleted and bagged according to normal mill procedures. After each lot of medicated swine feed was mixed, the horizontal paddle mixer was opened and the remaining feed was removed. The whole system was then flushed with 1000 lb. of a 80 ground corn 20 sugar beet pulp mixture flush . This was then mixed, pelleted and bagged in the same way as the feed. Ten samples were taken from each lot, one from every sixth 50 lb. bag of medicated feed, and one from every other 50 lib. bag of flush. Flush samples were assayed for sulfamethazine by the modified BrattanMarshall method while feed samples were assayed by the method described by Tishlor in J. Agr. Food Chem. 16 1 50 53. Table 2 summarizes the sulfamethazine as says for this trial. The Bratton Marshall assay, used to detect low levels of sulfamethazine, can be used to quantify levels of less than 1 ppm. The background sulfamethazine levels as measured in the unmedicated feeds and flushes ranged from 0.06 to 0.30 ppm., and levels of sulfamethazine below 0.5 ppm. are considered indistinguishable from background levels. The sulfamethazine persistence ratio SPR expresses the amount of sulfamethazine carried over to the unmedicated flush as a percentage of the sulfamethazine in the medicated animal feed preceding it. g sulfamethazine in unmedicated flushSPR X100 g sulfamethazine in medicated animal feed lot Comparison of the SPR for the two formulations shows that carryover of sulfamethazine into unmedicated materials was reduced by 54 with the use of granulated sulfaniethazine as prepared by the method described in the present invention. Table 2Feed Assays Flush Assays SulfaAnimal Sulfa Sulfa Sulfa Sulfa methazineFeed methazine methazine methazine methazine PersistanceFormulation No. Av. g ton g 3000 lb. lot g ton g 1000 lb. lot Ratio Unmedicated 1 1 1Sulfamethazine 2 91.6 137.4 2.4 1.2 0.87Powder 3 95.1 142.6 3.2 1.6 1.12 4 92.3 138.5 2.8 1.4 1.01Average 93.0 139.5 2.8 1.4 1.00Granulated 5 102.1 153.2 1.2 0.60 0.39Sulfamethazine 6 91.9 137.9 1.3 0.66 0.48 7 107.4 161.1 1.6 0.80 0.50Average 100.4 150.6 1.4 0.69 0.46