# Process for separating one gas from a gas mixture.

## Abstract
A process for separating one gas from a feed gas mixture containing the one gas wherein the mixture is brought into contact with one side of a membrane more permeable to the one gas than the other gases of the mixture and the permeated gas is recovered from the other side of the membrane. In order to maintain the process at a substantially constant rate of recovery at varying feed gas flow rates and or pressures, the rate of recovery is sensed and the gas mixture is heated or cooled to vary its temperature in proportion to variations in feed gas flow rates and or pressure such that the rate of recovery remains substantially constant. The rate of recovery may be measured in terms of purity of the permeated gas in the separated gas stream, the amount of gas recovered in a given time period or the percentage of the one gas separated from the feed gas mixture.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for recovering one gas from a feed gas made up of a mixture of said one gas and at least one other gas, said feed gas mixture having a variable flow characteristic, comprising a. bringing said feed gas mixture into contact with one side of a membrane more permeable to said one gas than said other gas to allow said one gas to permeate to the other side of the membrane, said feed gas being under a first pressure, b. recovering said permeated one gas from said other side at a second pressure lower than said first pressure, and c. varying the temperature of the feed gas mixture prior to said contact in response to variations in said flow characteristic in such a manner that the rate of recovery of said one gas is maintained at a substantially constant value. 2. A process of Claim 1, wherein the rate of recovery is sensed and the feed gas mixture temperature is varied in response to sensed variations in said rate of recovery to maintain said rate of recovery at a substantially constant value. 3. A process of Claim 1, wherein said flow characteristic is sensed and said gas mixture temperature is varied in response to sensed variations in said flow characteristics. 4. A process of Claim 3, wherein the membrane is in the form of a plurality of hollow filaments. 5. A process of Claim 4, wherein the flow characteristic sensed is the flow rate of the gas mixture. 6. A process of Claim 5, wherein the said one gas is hydrogen and the filaments are made from a polysulfone polymer and have a separation factor of at least 10 for hydrogen over said other gas and a hydrogen permeability of at least about 1 x 10 6 cubic centimeters of hydrogen per square centimeter of filament surface per second at a pressure of 1 centimeter of mercury across said membrane. 7. A process of Claim 6, wherein the gas mixture temperature is varied within the range of 50C. to 90 C. 8. A process of Claim 7, wherein the gas mixture temperature is varied to a temperature within the range of 300C. to 60 C. 9. A process of Claim 4, wherein the flow characteristic sensed is the pressure of the gas mixture. 10. A process of Claim 2, wherein the said rate of recovery is in terms of purity of said permeated one gas. 11. A process of Claim 2, wherein said rate of recovery is in terms of the amount of said one gas permeated versus time. 12. A process of Claim 2, wherein said rate of recovery is in terms of the percentage of said one gas removed from said gas mixture. 13. A process of Claim 12, wherein the temperature of the feed gas mixture is varied to vary the permeability of said one gas in such a manner that the expressionEMI11.1 remains substantially constant, where P jK is said permeability of said, one gas, AP is the difference in partial pressure of said one gas across the membrane and Q is the flow rate of said feed gas mixture. 14. A process of Claim 12, wherein the temperature of the feed gas mixture is varied in accordance with the expressionEMI11.2 where T is the temperature in OK to which the feed gas mixture is heated, T is a predetermined temperature in 0K at which a desired 0 percentage of said one gas is recovered from the feed gas mixture at a predetermined flow rate, Q is said predetermined flow rate in cubic meters per minute, Q is the flow rate in cubic meters per minute to which the feed gas mixture is varied, and C is a constant having the value of 500 to 3500. 15. A process of Claim 14, wherein C is within the range of 1400 to 2500.

## Description
PROCESS FOR SEPARATING ONE GAS FROM h GAS MIXTURE BACKGROUND OF THE TVETION A. Field of the Invention This invention relates to methods for separating one gas from a mixture of gases.B. Prior Art In certain manufacturing processes there will be found a gas stream made up of a mixture of gases containing unreacted hydrogen as part of the mixture. It is known that this unreacted hydrogen can be separated from certain other gases or a mixture of gases by utilizing a membrane which is more permeable to hydrogen than the other gases of the mixture. The gas mixture is brought into contact with one side of the membrane and permeated hydrogen is recovered from the other side of the membrane. One disadvantage of this known process is that variations in the flow rate or pressure of the gas stream result in variations in the amount of hydrogen recovered from the gas stream.If the gas stream is to be fed to another process, for example,the varying amount of hydrogen remairling in the gas stream may cause upsets in that process It would be desirable to have a process for recovering hydrogen or other gases from a process stream wherein conditions such as purity of the recovered gas, the percentage of gas removed from the stream or the amount of gas recovered per time remain substantially constant at varying stream flow rates and pressures. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION A process for separating one gas from a feed gas mixture containing the one gas wherein the mixture is brought into contact with one side of a membrane more permeable to the one gas than the other gases of the mixture and the permeated gas is recovered from the other side of the membrane. The rate of recovery of the one gas is sensed to detect variations therein and is maintained at a substantially constant value, at varying mixture flow rates and pressures, by heating the gas mixture to vary its temperature as the flow rate and or pressure varies. The rate of recovery may be measured in terms of the purity of the one gas in the permeate gas stream, the amount of gas recovered in a given time or the percentage of the one gas removed from the feed gas mixture. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION The process of the present invention is useful where permeable membranes are used for separating one gas from a mixture of that gas and one or more other gases. In carrying out this separation operation, the mixture of gases is brought into contact with the membrane and the more permeable gas will permeate the membrane and be recovered from the other side thereof. A difference in partial pressure of the more permeable gas is maintained across the membrane to act as a driving force for causing one of the gases of the mixture to permeate the membrane. The membrane may be in the form of a thin sheet but is preferably in the form of hollow filaments. Generally, the hollow filaments are mounted in a bundle in a closed vessel and the mixture of gases is admitted to the vessel to surround the hollow filaments in contact with the outer surfaces thereof. The more permeable gas penetrates the filaments and is withdrawn from the hollow interiors or bores of the filaments. Factors which have an effect on the amount of gas recovered from the mixture with a given membrane are the permeabilities of the gases involved, the difference in partial pressures of the gases across the membrane, the flow rate of the gas mixture, etc. Unfortunately, the percentage, purity and or amount of gas recovered from the mixture varies as the flow rate or pressure of the gas mixture varies, these variations in flow rate and pressure resulting from the nature of certain processes. This problem is solved by the present invention. It has been found that the rate at which a gas is recovered from a gas mixture can be maintained at an essentially constant value at varying mixture flow characteristics, i.e., flow rates and pressures, by heating the gas mixture prior to its contact with the membrane, as described herein. This heating is done most easily by passing the gas mixture through a heat exchanger. The flow rate and pressure of the gas mixture may be sensed in a conventional manner and the gas heated in such a manner that its temperature changes in proportion to changes in the flow rate and or pressure of the gas mixture. However, it is preferred to sense the rate of recovery of the permeated gas and to heat the gas mixture sufficiently to keep the rate of recovery at a substantially constant value.Inasmuch as the permeability of the gas varies with temperature, heating the gas in this manner will vary the rate of recovery. The rate of recovery may be measured in terms of the amount of gas permeated in a given time, the percentage of the permeated gas which is removed from the gas mixture or the purity of the permeated gas stream. In the event that it is desired to measure the rate of recovery in terms of the percentage of the permeated gas which is removed from the feed gas mixture, the feed gas temperature is varied in such a manner that the expressionEMI3.1 remains substantially constant regardless of changes in flow rate and pressure, PIR being the permeability of the gas to be recovered, AP being the partial pressure drop of the more permeable gas across the membrane, and Q being the flow rate of the gas mixture The value of this constant will be determined by the factors making up this expression as well as membrane area, the gases involved, etc. This invention involves not the selection of a certain value for this expression but the maintaining of that value substantially constant. If the partial pressure differential across the membrane is substantially constant and the rate of recovery is measured in terms of the percentage of gas removed from the feed gas mixture, then the feed gas temperature is varied in accordance with the expressionEMI4.1 where T is the temperature in 0K to which the gas mixture is heated,To is a predetermined temperature in 0K at which a desired amount or percentage of the one gas permeates the membrane at a predetermined flow rate in M3 minute, QO is the predetermined flow rate in M3 minute, Q is the varied flow rate in M3 minute and C is 500 to 3500, preferably 1400 to 2500. Q and QO may be expressed in terms of measurement other than M3 minute, provided that both are in the same terms. In some cases it may be feasible to disregard the more difficult to measure partial pressure drop across the membrane and simply measure the difference in total pressure from one side of the membrane to the other and use this measurement as an approximation of the partial pressure drop. In most cases the pressure on the permeate side of the membrane will remain substantially constant, so that variations in pressure drop across the membrane are the same as the variations in the pressure of the feed gas mixture. In this case a simple device can be connected to sense variations in the gas mixture pressure for determining the temperature to which the gas should be heated. There are several factors which will determine the amount or percentage of gas recovered from a feed gas mixture. These are among other things, the nature of the membrane, the permeabilities of the gases making up the mixture, the effective area of the membrane, gas mixture temperature, pressure and flow rate, etc. If an equation were drawn to calculate the exact amount or percentage of gas to be recovered at a given set of conditions, i.e., the recovery rate, all of these factors would have to be included, including all constants such as membrane area and other constants found in the mathematical expression used in determining gas recovery. However, the process of this invention is not concerned with a specific recovery rate but is concerned with maintaining the rate of recovery at a substantially constant value under varying mixture flow rates and pressures.Thus, for a given installation, all of the constants which are not additive or subtractive, such as membrane area and certain other constants found in the mathematical expression used for calculating specific gas recovery, can be ignored and dropped from the expression to leave only additive or subtractive constants and those variables, such as flow rate, which directly affect the amount or percentage of recovered gas. When this is done, the result is expression I. So long as expression I is kept at a substantially constant value, the percentage of gas removed from the gas mixture will remain at a substantially constant value. When the pressure differential, AP, across the membrane is kept at a constant value, then expression I can be simplified to give the expressionEMI5.1 If this expression is maintained at a constant value, by varying the gas temperature to vary P z with flow rate, Q, the percentage of gas removed from the feed gas stream will remain at a substantially constant value. In order to determine specific temperatures to which the gas mixture should be heated when AP is constant, this expression can be written to include temperature, T.SinceEMI5.2 E RT where K is a constant and e E RT is taken from the Arrhenius equation, then, dropping the constant, Ko, and by substitution, we obtainEMI5.3 where T is the original gas mixture temperature in OK, Q is the 0 0 original mixture flow rate, Q is the flow rate to which the gas mixture is varied and T is the temperature, in OK, to which the gas must be heated to maintain a constant recovery rate. This equation can be written asEMI6.1 which may in turn be written asEMI6.2 For recovery of hydrogen gas using a polysulfone membrane, a preferred embodiment, the value of E R will be about 1400 to 25000K.For other gases and membranes, the value of E R will vary from about 500 to about 3500. By utilizing the letter C to designate E R and transposing, the equation may be rewritten asEMI6.3 where C is 500 to 3500 and preferably 1400 to 2500, To and QO are the starting or reference gas temperature and flow rate at which a desired percentage of the one gas is removed from the feed gas stream, Q is the flow rate to which the gas mixture is varied and T is the temperature to which the mixture must be heated to maintain the desired gas recovery rate at the new flow rate. T and To are expressed in degrees K.It should be understood that the mathematical expressions set out herein are useful where the rate of recovery is measured in terms of the percentage of the permeated gas removed from the feed gas stream, with these expressions being not quite so accurate when the rate of recovery is measured in terms of purity of permeated gas or amount of gas permeated versus time. The membranes used are preferably in the form of hollow poly sulfone filaments or fibers mounted in a bundle in a tubular shell.Preferred membranes are the multiple component or coated filaments made from a polysulfone polymer, as disclosed by Henis, et al., in U. S. Patent No. 4,230,463. Preferably, the gas mixture is fed into the shell to come into contact with the outer surfaces of the hollow filaments, with the more permeable gas from the gas stream permeating the walls of the filaments to the bores thereof and being withdrawn from these bores The rate at which a given gas permeates the membrane depends upon, among other things, the particular membrane used.Especially desirable membranes for use in the process of this invention where hydrogen is the more permeable gas, exhibit hydrogen permeabilities of at least about 1 x 10 6 and preferably from 1 x 10 5 to 5 x 10 4 cubic centimeters of hydrogen, at standard temperature and pressure, per square centimeter of membrane surface area per second at a pressure differential of 1 centimeter of mercury across the membrane.The membrane should have a separation factor of at least about 10 for the more permeable gas in preference to at least one other slower permeating gas in the feed gas mixture. Preferably, the membrane will have a separation factor of at least about 20 in preference to at least one other slower permeating gas in the gas mixture. For example, separation factors for hydrogen over methane and other gases of 50 or even 100 or greater are provided by certain membranes. The selectivity or separation factor of a membrane is described in terms of the ratio of the permeability, P Q, of the faster permeating gas to the permeability of a slower permeating gas.Some of the gases which have significantly slower permeating rates with a given membrane, compared to gases such as hydrogen and hydrogen sulfide, are methane and other hydrocarbon gases, nitrogen, carbon monoxide, etc. The temperature to which the gas mixture is heated is within the range of 200C to 800C and is preferably within the range of 300C to 60 C. While the invention is disclosed herein primarily in terms of heating the gas mixture, it should be understood that the term varying the gas mixture temperature , as used herein, also includes cooling the mixture where such is required. EXAMPLE 1 A permeator made of hollow polysulfone fibers as described in the above mentioned Henis, et al., patent and having an effective membrane area of 2.79 square meters was used to recover hydrogen from a feed gas mixture of 85 percent hydrogen and 15 percent methane.The flow rate of the gas mixture varied from about 33 to 65 cubic meters per minute at standard conditions and at a constant pressure.The gas mixture was passed through a heat exchanger prior to contact with the membrane and was heated to temperatures which were varied with variations in the flow rate, in accordance with expression II, in order to achieve a constant 60 percent recovery of the hydrogen in the feed gas mixture. Table 1 below shows the gas temperatures used with each flow rate. To was 190C 2920K and QO was 33.4 M3 minute, with C being 1800. TABLE 1 Flow Rate 33.4 41.3 482 57.0 64.9 M3 Min. Gas Temp. 19 30 39 46 54 C EXAMPLE 2 Example 1 was repeated with the exception that the feed gas mixture was heated to temperatures to achieve a substantially constant 70 percent recovery of the hydrogen from the feed gas.Table 2 shows the gas mixture temperatures used to accomplish this result at varying flow rates. To was 190C 292 K and QO was 43.2 M minute. C was 1500. TABLE 2Flow Rate 43.2 49.2 57.0 68.8 76.7M3 Min.Gas Temp. 19 30 39 46 54 OC