# Apparatus and method of conditioning and conveying thermoplastic material.

## Abstract
An apparatus and method for conducting relatively hot molten thermoplastic material from a furnace 10 and deliver ing the material at a desired homogeneity to a remote location a forehearth 13 . The apparatus includes a conduit means 14 having an inlet 18 adapted to receive the material at one end from the furnace and an outlet 20 for delivering same to the remote location 13 . There may also be provided a flow control device 15 in flow communication with the outlet 20 of the conduit means 14 for regulating the flow of the thermoplastic material from the furnace 10 at a controlled rate and head. A refractory structure 46 located in spaced relation about the conduit means 14 and flow control device 15 defines a space thereabout for the introduction of thermoplastic materi al. Means 64 is provided for blocking or preventing flow com munication between the furnace and the remote location exte rior of the conduit means thereby preventing flow of thermo plastic material in bypassing relation with the conduit means. The conduit means, flow control device and blocking means are preferably fabricated of an oxidizable refractory metal and are maintained immersed in thermoplastic material when ex posed to temperatures above an oxidation temperature there of. Heat exchange may be provided for temperature control of the glass.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A furnace delivery apparatus for condition relatively hot molten thermoplastic material r controlled dissipation of heat energy therefrom characterized by a pipe for delivery said theznopr st li c material from a source thereof to a desired location and for conditioning the material to a desired homogeneity and temperature upon delivery, said pipe having an inlet for receiving the material therein from said source and an outlet for delivering said material to said desired location a refractory structure located about the said pipe and defining a chamber which surrounds said pipe means and extends between said pipe means and said refractory structure, and a heater located in the chamber, surrounding the pipe means for supplying heat thereto, said chamber being filled with a supply of thermoplastic material immersing the pipe and heater therein. 2. A delivery apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said refractory structure has openings and fluid passageways there through for circulation of a heat exchange fluid therein. 3. A delivery apparatus as claim in claim 1 further characterized by means for protecting surfaces of the refractory structure and the pipe which form inside surfaces of the chamber from deleterious ambience including passage means for supplying said chamber with a purge fluid which is relatively inert with respect to the structure and the pipe. 4. A furnace delivery apparatus as claimed in claim 1 further cllaractcrized by heat exchange means disposed in spaced relation about said pipe means for conveying a first gaseous fluid in said heat exchange means in heat exchange relation therewith and the pipe heat insulating means surrounding said heat exchange means and said heater, said means for conveying the first gaseous fluid within said heat exchange means and said heat insulating means functioning in combination to produce means for governing the temperature of the thermoplastic material to provide the desired thermal homogeneity as it passes through said pipe. 5. A delivery apparatus as claimed in claim 4 further characterized by stationary shearing means located within said pipe for homogenizing the consistency of the thermoplastic material passing therethrough. 6. A delivery apparatus as claimed in claim 8 wherein said pipe is made of a corrosion resistant material, a noble metal, or the like. 7. A delivery apparatus as claimed in claim 4 wherein said pipe is a metal selected from the group consisting of molybdenum, tungsten, tantalum, rhenium, columbium, steel or alloys thereof, and the like. 8. A delivery apparatus as claimed in claim 4 wherein said means for conveying said first gaseous fluid comprises a plurality of first cooling pipes axially supported in recesses in said refractory structure and being spaced apart from said pipe for carrying the first fluid. 9. A delivery apparatus as claimed in claim 8 further characterized by means within said closed chamber for conveying a second gaseous fluid in heat exchange relation with said pipe. 10. A delivery apparatus as claimed in claim 9 wherein said means for conveying the second fluid includes a plurality of second cooling pipes located axially adjacent the pipe and tangentially centering same within said closed chamber. 11. A delivery apparatus as claimed in claim 10 wherein the first cooling pipes are diametrically larger tthan the second cooling pipes, the first working fluid carrying a significantly larger portion of heat exchange load produced by the thermoplastic material than the second working fluid and the second working fluid carrying a greater instantaneous change in heat load than the first working fluid. 12. A delivery apparatus as claimed in claim 4 wherein the heater comprises a plurality of heater elements located near with said pipe for providing heat input thereto. 13. A delivery apparatus as claimed in claim h wherein heater comprises a portion of said pipe connected with a source of electrical power. 14. A delivery apparatus as claimed in claim 4 including electrode means located in communication with said chamber for providing electrical joule heating energy through said thermoplastic material. 15. A delivery apparatus as claimed in claim 4 including expandable means in communication with at least one end of said pipe being adapted to accommodate relative motion of the pipe and heat exchange structure through thermal cycling of the apparatus. 16. A delivery apparatus as claimed in claim 15 wherein said expandable means comprises a sleeve connection between said pipe and said furnace. 17. A delivery apparatus as claimed in claim 4 including a flange portion supportively coupled. about at least one of the inlet and outlet of said pipe, said flange extending radially outward thereof in communication with said structure for sealingly closing te chamber. 18. A delivery apparatus as claimed in claim 17 including flange cooling means located in thermal communication with at least a circumferential portion thereof. 19. A delivery apparatus as claimed in claim 4 wherein the heat insulating means is selectively arranged about the heat exchange means for differentially regulating heat energy along said conduit. 20. A delivery apparatus as claimed in claim 1 further characterized by flow control means in communication with said pipe for regulating the flow of the thermoplastic material from the furnace. 21. A delivery apparatus as claimed in claim 20 further characterized by at least one flange supportively coupled about the pipe said flange extending radially outwardly thereof in communication with the structure for segmenting the chamber into separate portions. 22. A delivery apparatus as claimed in claim 21 wherein the thermoplastic material exerts a hydrostatic pressure differential between the inlet and outlet of the pipe for driving the thermoplastic material in a direction from relatively higher to relatively lower hydrostatic pressure, and the flange blocks flow of the thermoplastic material in the chamber from one separate portion to the other. 23. A delivery apparatus as claimed in claim 22 wherein the flange includes a cooling passageway in communication with a source of cooling fluid for lowering the temperature of the flange below a selected operating temperature thereof and reducing the temperature of thermoplastic material in the vicinity thereof such that it forms a seal between the flange and the structure. 2. A delivery apparatus as claimed in claim 20 wherein the flow control device is further characterized by a well having a flow control surface a needle having a working surface located i reciprocal spaced relation with said flow control surface and means for regulating the position of the needle relative to the well for varying the spaced relation therebetween and to thereby regulate the hydrostatic pressure of the thermoplastic rmtT i 25. A delivery apparatus as claimed in claim 24 where the means for regulating the position of the neelle comprises a control rod engaging a portion of che needle in opposition to the working surface thereof for moving said needle reciprocally. 26. A delivery apparatus as claimed in claim 25 wherein said needle, well and control rod are fabricated from oxidizable refractory metals selected from the group consisting of molybdenum, tungsten, tantalum, rhenium, columbium, steel and alloys thereof. 27. A delivery apparatus as claimed in claim 26 wherein said control rod comprises an elongate rod adapted to be partially immersed in the thermoplastic and coupled to the needle at a distal end of said rod, said rod extending through an upper surface of the thermoplastic material to be exposed to a relatively hot ambience said rod further including a refractory sleeve surrounding same at least over a portion thereof near the upper surface of the thermoplastic material for shielding tie rod from ambience, and a noble metal shield covering the refractory sleeve for protecting same from corrosion by the tilermoplastic material. 28. A method of conditioning thermoplastic material existing at virtually any condition between a solid relatively cold condition and a molten relatively hot condition characterized by the steps of confining the material to a selected flow path, forming a chamber thereabout, conducting the material along the flow path from an inlet eiid to an outlet end thereof, regulating the rate of heat energy dissipation from the material along said flow path including the step of at least one of heating said material and heat exchanging and removing heat energy given up by said material along said path, surrounding the flow path with a concentric annular chamber having wall portions in spaced relation with said flow path, said wall portions defining a space within said chamber, and surrounding the flow path with thermoplastic material for immersing the flow path in said material within said chamber. 29. A method as claimed in claim 28 including the step of introducing a gaseous substance into said chamber proximate said flow path for protecting same from deleterious ambience. 30. A method as claimed in claim 28 including the step of introducing said hot material at the path inlet at a relatively nonuniform temperature distribution across said path and wherein the temperature of the material introduced is relatively hot up to about 21O00C. 31. A method as claimed in claim 28 including the step of accommodating thermal expansion of the flow path relative to inlet and outlet ends thereof. 32. A method as claimed in claim 28 including the step of shearingly impeding the flow of said material along said flow path. 33. A method as claimed in claim 28 wherein the step of heating the material includes at least one of the steps of supplementing heat carried by said material and heating the material to a molten state from a cold solid condition. 311. A method as claimed in claim 28 including the step of selectively insulating the flow path for regulating the rate of heat dissipation therealong. 35. A method as claimed in claim 28 wherein the step of heat exchanging and removing heat given up by said material along said flow path includes providing at least first and second means for conveying respective working fluids in heat exchange relation with the flow path, the first one of said means carrying a significantly greater portion of heat exchange load produced by the material than the second means, said second means carrying a greater instantaneous change in heat load than the first means. 36. A method as claimed in claim 28 further characterized by the step of blocking flow of said thermoplastic material exterior of the flow path from the inlet end to the outlet end thereof. 37. A method as claimed in claim 36 further including the step of regulating the flow of thermoplastic material in the flow path from the inlet and to the outlet end thereof.

## Description
Title APPARATUS AND METHOD OF CONDITIONING AND CONVEYING TIEWMOPLASTIC MATERIAL The present invention relates to an apparatus for conditioning and conveying molten thermoplastic material produced in a melting furnace. The apparatus receives the thermoplastic material from the furnace and discharges the same at some desired temperature and consistency for forming a product. The invention more particularly relates to a glass delivery system and flow control device in which the glass is conveyed through a conduit and is simultaneously conditioned to a desired relatively lmiform temperature and viscosity as it passes there through. The conduit may be immersed in or surrounded by stagnant glass.Heaters, adapted to operate in molten glass located about the conduit, provide uniform heat input into the glass within the conduit and prevent localized hot spots. The conduit may be coupled to a forehearth for further conditioning, and to downstream glass forming equipment via a glass corrosion resistant flow control device. Vertically oriented electric glass melting furnaces have been known in the prior art for some time, but it has been only in the last several years that such furnaces have been brought to large scale commercial application.In more recently developed furnaces, such as the type illustrated in U.S.A. Patent Nos. 2,993,079, 3,524,206, 3,583,861, 3,725,558, 3,72,111, 3,942,968, 4,029,887 and 4,11l3,232, glass forming batch materials are fed to the upper end of a vertical chamber and refined molten glass is withdrawn from the bottom of the chamber. High quality glass is thus produced in a single vertical chamber, with melting occurring in an upper portion thereof and preferably some refining occurring at the bottom portion. The molten glass withdrawn from the electric furnace is usually received within a laterally extending connected channel situated at one side of the furnace bottom and thereafter directed through a vertical passageway or riser to a mixing chamber and or a forehearth. In some glass melting systems there is a differential between the glass level in the furnace and the glass level in the forehearth resulting in a measurable hydrostatic head sometimes hereinafter referred to as pressure or head . Normally, a flow control device or needle located between the furnace and forehearth controls the flow or volume of glass into the forehearth so as to regulate the head. In a conventional flow control system, glass under hydrostatic pressure may ultimately work its way through the refractory joints and bypass the flow control device, with flow control being thereby rendered inoperative. A premature and expensive furnace repair is thus required. Hydrostatic head may be reduced by changing the difference between glass level in the furnace and forehearth. Alternatively, the head may be dissipated by lengthening the connected channel of the delivery system. Each respective alternative lowers the tendency of the glass to bypass the needle. However, neither alternative is particularly desirable because hydrostatic head is a useful driving force for the glass, and a long connected channel is expensive to build and operate. The present invention of an improved glass delivery system and flow control device has permitted the continued use of a relatively high hydrostatic head as a driving force for the glass. At the same time, an increase in the length of the delivery system to reduce head at the flow control device is not required. It is well known in the glass melting and forming art that forehearths require substantial amounts of heat energy in order to condition the glass received from the furnace. Thus, the forehearth is a net consumer of energy and the anomalous condition exists wherein a large amount of heat energy is required to cool the glass to the proper forming temperatures.The present invention allows for the use of a smaller and lower energy consuming forehearth. It is also known that molybdenum metal moly , a preferred glass contact material used herein, has significantly higher wear resistance to moving molten glass than conventional refractory materials. However, it is also well known that moly tends to oxidize at temperatures in excess of 550 600 C, and thus, the moly must be protected from deleterious atmosphere oxygen when it is used at or above these elevated temperatures.The present invention uses moly extensively and provides for its protection. The present invention performs the functions of transportation, cooling, homogenizing and flow control of molten glass, in which the useful life of the delivery system is significantly increased and glass refractory corrosion products, producing glass inhomogeneities and inclusions, are virtually eliminated. Further, the system greatly reduces the net energy required to condition the glass while maintaining a relatively stable hydrostatic driving force for the glass through the system. The present invention provides an apparatus for conducting relatively hot molten thermoplastic material from a furnace and delivering the material at a desired homogeneity to a remote location. The apparatus includes a conduit means having an inlet adapted to receive the material at one end from the furnace and an outlet for delivering same to the remote location. There may also be provided a flow control device in flow communication with the outlet of the conduit means for regulating the flow 0 the thermoplastic material from the furnace at a controlled rate and head. A refractory structure located in spaced relation about the conduit means and flow control device defines a space thereabout for the introduction of thermoplastic material.Means is provided for blocking or preventing flow communication between the furnace and the remote location exterior of the conduit means thereby preventing flow or thermoplastic material in bypassing relation with the conduit means. The conduit means, flow control device and blocking means are preferably fabricated of an oxidizable refractory metal and are maintained immersed in thermoplastic material when exposed to temperatures above an oxidation temperature thereof.Heat exchange means may be provided for temperature control of the glass. The invention also provides a method for conveying and conditioning the thermoplastic material and blocking flow communication of the material exterior of the flowr path between the inlet and the outlet end thereof. In the accompanying drawings Figure 1 is a fragmented schematic longitudinal cross sectional elevation of a preferred embodiment of the apparatus of the present invention, and Figure 2 is a schematic axial cross section of another embodiment of the present invention showing heat exchange means for glass conditioning. Figure 1 of the drawings shows one embodiment of a delivery system 12 of the present invention for carrying molten thermoplastic material such as glass 11 from a furnace 10 for delivery to a forehearth 13. The delivery system 12 includes a horizontal channel 1, a connected vertical riser 16, and respective inlet and outlet ends 18 and 20. The inlet 18 is preferably coupled to furnace 10 and the outlet 20 is preferably adapted to a coupled to forehearth 13 or other downstream connecting channels and the like. A needle or flow control device 15 may be located at the outlet 20 to control the flow of thermoplastic material or glass 11 from the furnace 10 through the delivery system 12 into the forehearth 13. Furnace 10 includes an upstanding sidewall portion 22 having a through opening 24 therein. An outlet pipe 26, which may extend to the centre C of the furnace 10, is located within said opening 24. Sleeve 30 may be fitted over an outlet end 31 of outlet pipe 26. A first flange 28, peripherally attached about said sleeve 30, seals the opening 24 exterior of the furnace 10. An outlet end 32 of the sleeve 30 extends beyond the first flange 28 for sleevable connection to the delivery system 12. The outlet pipe 26, sleeve 30 and first flange 28 are preferably manufactured of materials which are highly corrosion resistant. Wlile, in the present invention, a refractory metal such as moly is preferred, other materials such as tungsten, tantalum, rhenium, columbium, steel or alloys thereof may be used. Also noble metals, such as platinum, and rhodium or alloys thereof may be used where appropriate. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the delivery system 12 includes an internal conduit, pipe means or flow path 40 which comprises a horizontal cylindrical pipe 41 and vertical cylindrical well 43 having opening 42 therein. Cylindrical pipe 41 has an inboard end 29 slidably and loosely fitted into sleeve 30 of outlet pipe 26, and an outboard end 33 secured in opening 42 of well e.g., by threading or force fitting . Mixer elements 35 are located axially of pipe 41 to shear the glass 11 for thermally and physically homogenizing it as it passes through conduit 40. A refractory brick structure 46 surrounds conduit 40 in a spaced relation thereby providing an annular chamber or space 44 about the conduit 40 i.e., pipe 41 and well 43 . The refractory brick structure 46 may be manufactured of a glass contact material such as CorhartUNICOR I. A layer of insulation 50 surrounds the refractory brick structure 46. An outer shell or housing 52 covers the insulation 50 and defines an interior chamber 53. Electrically powered heaters 48 may be located in space 44. Water cooled electric power connectors 56 are coupled to the heaters 48 and pass through openings or passageways 54 in insulation 50, shell 52 and refractory brick structure 46. A second flange 64 is secured to and located about the pipe 41 near the outboard end 33. The second flange 64 extends across the annular chamber 44 and into the refractory structure 46 thereby splitting or segmenting the chamber 44 into respective relatively high and low pressure sections or sides 44H and 44L, the purpose of which will be explained hereinafter. As mentioned previously, pipe 41 and well 43 are preferably manufactured from a highly corrosion resistant refractory metal such as molybdenum. Although other materials may be used, it has been found that molybdenum is more easily or cheaply fabricated than other refractory metals and is Iiighly resistant to the effects of flowing thermoplastic material such as glass.Because moly oxidizes at above 550 C, and glass 11 entering the delivery system 12 may be at temperatures exceeding 21000C, means is provided for protecting moly from oxidation. The interior of the conduit J10 is protected from oxidation by the presence of the glass 11 from the furnace 12. Exterior of the conduit llO, the space 44 may be prefilled with a mixture of glass cullet 11X. When melted, the cullet 11 forms a layer of protective material about conduit 40. The high pressure side 4411 of chamber 44 may also receive molten glass 11 from the furnace 10 via the relatively loosely fitting connection of sleeve 30 and the inlet 18 of conduit 40.The low pressure side 44L of chamber 4 surrounding a portion of pipe 41 and well 43 is in communication with the forehearth 13. Glass 11 in the foreheartil 13 can enter the lower pressure side 44L of chamber 44 about pipe 41 and well 43 near the outlet end 20 of the conduit. The glass and cullet 11 , surrounding the conduit 40 in chamber 44, tends to stagnate and remain trapped therewithin, thus preventing possible refractory contamination from entering the conduit 40 and being used to make product. The conduit 40 expands and contracts due to thermal cycling of the system. Such dimensional change may, if not accommodated, produce undue stress on the system components and cause a failure. The sleeve 30 coupling outlet pipe 26 and pipe 41 of conduit 40 accommodates some of the expansion and contraction of the respective components. Also, the conduit 40 may be made relatively short so that, in the temperature ranges contemplated, the maximum swings in dimensions do not exceed the tolerances of the system. It should be understood that other arrangements for connecting the furnace leo and delivery system are possible besides the sleeve 30 between outlet pipe 28 and conduit 40. however, for purposes of repair and the like, the arrangement herein described is preferred because of the relative ease with which a break or separation may be made between the aforementioned components. A plurality of the heaters 48 may be located immersed in the cullet 11 within the annular chamber 44 to provide proximate heating thereto and thereby control the temperature of glass 11 within said conduit 40. The heaters 48 may be commercially available mesh, rod, plate and ribbon devices.A variety of suitable materials are available for manufacture of the heaters 48 including moly, tungsten and platinum. In addition to providing heat input to the glass 11 within conduit lto, the heaters 48 are used for initially melting the cullet 11 within the chamber 44. The heaters 48 may also serve a dual purpose and be used as electrodes for joule effect heating of the glass 11 by changing the power supplied thereto. Although connections are not shown, conduit 40 may be electrified to act as a heater. The insulation layer 50 may be selectively varied in thickness and type in order to provide a heat regulating function depending upon the glass composition and operating characteristics of the system 12. Flange heaters 68 may be located adjacent the respective first and second flanges 28 and 6 to provide some supplemcntal heat for start up. Although flange heaters 68 are normally shut don subsequent to start up, they could be used for glass temperature control if necded. The flange heaters 68 may be coupled to a source of electricity via means similar to connectors 56 not shown . Cooling notches 73,formed in each respective first and second flange 28 and 64, are sealed by peripheral end plates 75. Cooling notches 73 may be coupled to an external source of cooling fluid F inert gas or liquid via appropriate plumbing 76. Appropriate openings 55 in housing 52, insulation 50 and refractory structure 116 may be provided as necessary for plumbing 76. Glass 11 and cullet 111, proximate the respective first and second flanges 28 and G and closely adjacent structures, becomes frozen or at least highly viscous and thus creates a glass tight seal to prevent glass leakage thereby.Also, since it is preferred that respective first and second flanges 28 and 64 are fabricated from moly, the cooling provided by cooling fluid F circulated through cooling notches 73 reduces the temperature of the flanges 28 and 64 below the oxidation temperature of the moly. A purge line 58 passing through an opening 60 in the housing 52, insulation 50 and refractory structure 86 provides an inlet for purge gas P into the space 44. The purge gas P may also be allowed to infiltrate to the chamber 53. The reason for the introduction of purge gas P is that, before start up, oxygen contaminants will undoubtedly be trapped within the housing 52. If, as preferred, moly is used to fabricate the conduit lAo, flanges 28 and 64 and heaters 48 and 68, oxygen should be thoroughly purged to avoid risk of destroying the oxidizable components. After start up when the glass llt in the space 44 melts, the purge P is no longer required. One or more thermocouples 74 may be located at various points along conduit 40 in openings or passageways 78 in housing 52, insulation 50 and refractory 46.The thermo couples 74 provide output signals over connecting wires 79 indicative of the temperature of the conduit 40 and the glass 11 contained therein. Each of the heaters 48 may be separately controlled to regulate the heat input into the system all along conduit 40 in response to outputs of thermo couples 74. Thus, temperature gradients in the glass 11 may be moderated and localized hot spots may be prevented. Flow control and pressure regulation of the glass 11 is provided by flow control device or needle 80 and well 43. The needle 80 may be vertically reciprocally supported from above by rod 82. Well 43 has a contoured inner flow surface 84 and needle 80 has a correspondingly shaped working surface 86 in variable spaced relation therein. The needle 80 and well 43 cooperate to restrict the flow of glass 11 into the forehearth 13 and to relieve or dissipate hydrostatic pressure of the glass 11. The rod 82 carrying the needle 80 may be controlled by conventional means not shown. In the furnace 10, the glass 11 has a selected operating level L1. In the forehearth 13, the glass is maintained at a second lower level L2. The position of the needle 80 relative to the well 43 is regulated to establish the forehearth glass level L2 against the hydrostatic head provided by the high glass level L1 of the furnace. The difference in glass levels L2 L1 or head may be a number of feet, typically 61 152 centimetres 2 5 feet . In order to reduce costs, the length of the conduit 40 from inlet 18 to outlet 20 should be relatively short i.e., 183 centimetres or 6 feet .A short flow path does not greatly reduce the effects of head. Therefore, it E preferable to provide a conduit 40 with a reduced diameter in order to introduce flow resistance into the system and thereby dissipate the head. The diameter of the conduit is preferably about 127 millimetres 5 inches . The sizing of the conduit 40 and positioning of the needle 80 within well 43 provides sufficient effective head reduction adequately to control the glass level L2 in the forehearth 13. The present invention, therefore, allows the use of available glass head to move glass 11, and at the same time reduces cost and system size by means of a conduit 40 with a reduced flow radius. IIydrostatic pressure in the high pressure side 44H of chamber 44 upstream of second flange 64 is relatively higher than the pressure downstream thereof in low pressure side 4owl. This is because the high pressure side 44H is in communication with the glass 11 in the furnace 10 at upper level L1. The low pressure side 44L is in communication with glass 11 in the forehearth 13 which is at the lower level L2. The second flange 64 effectively separates or isolates the pressure differential. Thus, glass 11 in the furnace 10 cannot enter the low pressure side 44L of the chamber 44 and bypass well 43 and needle 80. Further, since the conduit l10 is primarily fabricated from corrosion resistant materials and virtually glass tight, none of the glass 11 in the furnace 10 and conduit 40 can work its way past the well 43.Such a condition would result in a failure of the flow control and cause defects in the glass from refractory inclusions resulting from structural wear. The moly conduit 40 has containment strength and high corrosion resistance thereby reducing system repair and maintenance requirements. Normally, the atmosphere A above the glass levelL2 in the forehearth 13 is at an elevated temperature.Consequently, the control rod 82 must be protected. The control rod 82 may be formed of composites shown schematically including an inner moly rod M for strength and a ceramic sleeve Cs thereabout which, in turn, has an exterior platinum shield Pt thereaboout. The ceramicCs protects the moly M from the heat, and the platinumPt, in contact with glass 11, protects the ceramic Cr from the glass corrosion especially near the glass level L. The flow control provided by needle 80 and well 43 makes hydrostatic head available for moving the glass 11.The use of conduit IsO to carry the glass 11 provides a system which is virtually leak proof thereby rcndering the flow control reliable. The conduit 40 is impervious to contamination by corrosion or outgassing of the refractory structure 46 thereby enhancing glass quality, since refractory contamination produces cord and inclusions in the glass. Further, volatilization of the glass composition is inhibited by the use of the conduit 40. In another embodiment of the present invention, shown in the axial cross section of Figure 2, similar elements are numbered with the same reference numerals within respect to Figure 1. A glass delivery system 112 includes an outer shell or housing 52 defining chamber 5, an insulating blanket 50, a refractory brick structure 46 and an internally located conduit or pipe means 40. An annular chamber or space 44 is defined between conduit 40 and internal walls 47 of refractory structure 46.The annular space 44 is filled with glass cullet 11t which becomes molten after the system is in operation. Heaters 48 may be located within the annular chamber 44 for the purposes hereinbefore described. It should be noted that in either embodiment, conduit 40 could be electrified directly by one or more connections to act as a heater in lieu of or as a supplement to the separate heaters 48. Mixer elements 25 similar to those described in reference to Figure 1 are located axially of conduit 40. Inner cooling pipes 88 preferably manufactured of moly and carrying a working fluid WF, may be located within the space 4 about the conduit 40 axially aligned therewith and tangentially centering it within refractory structure 46 as shown. Inlet outlet pipes 90 are suitably manifolded with the inner cooling pipes 33 to conduct the working fluid WF into and out of each said inner cooling pipes 88 via openings 92 in the housing 52, insulation 50 and refractory G. The inner cooling pipes 88 being proximate the conduit 40 may be operated so as to provide for sharp changes in the temperature of the glass 11 within the conduit 40 if such control is required, Outer cooling pipes 100 are located in recesss 102 of the refractory brick structure 46. Thee outer pipes 100 are manufactured of refractory Clling such as alumina or a high temperature steel alloy and are similarly suitably manifolded for receiving a second source of working fluid WFt via connector pipes 104 in openings 106 of the housing 52, insulation 50 and refractory 46. As can be fully appreciated from the drawing, the outer cooling pipes 100 are significantly larger in diameter than the inner pipes 88 mentioned above. The reason for this is that the outer pipes 100 are adapted to carry relatively large volumes of working fluid WF in comparison to inner pipes 80. Consequently, outer pipes 100 carry a greater proportion of the heat exchange or cooling load for the system as a whole over longer periods of time than the inner pipes 88. Furthermore, because of their proximity to the conduit 40, inner pipes are designed to more rapidly or instantaneously affect the temperature of conduit 10 and glass 11 therein, as well as the glass llt in annular space 44.The greater volume of working fluid WFt available for the outer pipes 100 enables the system to be operated over a greater range of heating and cooling loads.Operating together, the respective inner and outer cooling pipes 80 and 100 provide means for relatively stable and versatile control of the system. Each working fluidWF and WFt should be inert relative to the respective inner and outer cooling pipes 88 and 100 through whizz they flow. For simplified operation each working fluidWF and WFi could be the same composition. TIie delivery system 112 shown in Figure 2 is more versatile than the system of Figure 1 because of the provision for respective inner and outer cooling pipes 80 and 100. However, each system can be more or less complex depending on needed results. The incorporation of the respective inner and outer cooling pipes 88 and 100,heaters 48, mixing devices 43 and the like depends on system application. In any of the embodiments described herein, insulation 50 surrounding the refractory brick structure 46 may be selectively removed in part to regulate heat dissipation differentially. This may be accomplished by means of removable panel and insulation portions 51 of housing 52. Thus, the present invention may be adapted for multiple uses. The present invention is rather simple and compact in its design dimensions. For example arrangements shown in Figure 1 and 2 may be less than 61 centimetres by 61 centimetres 2 feet x 2 feet in axial cross section, with a length dimension being dependent upon the parameters of the materials to be melted and the space requirements of the facility. While there has been described what at present are considered to be the preferred embodiments of the present invention, it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various changes and modifications may be made therein without departing from the inventions.