# Antiallergic agent comprising derivatives of adenosine.

## Abstract
Antiallergic effect is exhibited by an N⁶ ω aminoalkyl adenosine compound of the formula

## Claims
WHAT WE CLAIM IS 1. An antiallergic, comprising an N aminoalkyl adenosine compound of the formula I or a pharmaceuti calls acceptable salt thereof as active ingredient EMI25.1 wherein n is an integer of 1 to 20, and R is a member selected from the group consisting of a ss D ribofuranosyl group represented by the formulaEMI25.2 a 5 phosphoryl B D ribofuranosyl group of the formulaEMI25.3 a 3 phosphoryl B D ribofuranosyl group of the formulaEMI25.4 and a 3 ,5 cyclicphosphoryl D ribofuranosyl group of the formulaEMI26.1 2. An antiallergic as set forth in claim 1 comprising an N6 w aminoalkyl adenosine compound of the formula I wherein n is an integer of 6 to 20, and R is the ss D ribofuranosyl group, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. 3. An antiallergic as set forth in claim 1 comprising an N6 w aminoalkyl adenosine compound of the formula I wherein n is an integer of 13 to 20 and R is the 5 phosphoryl ss D ribofuranosyl group, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. 4. An antiallergic as set forth in claim 1 compris 6 ing an N w aminoalkyl adenosine compound of the formula I wherein n is an integer of 1 to 20 and R is the 3 phosphoryl B D ribofuranosyl group, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. 5. An antiallergic as set forth in claim 1 comprising an N6 w aminoalkyl adenosine compound of the formula I wherein n is an integer of 1 to 20 and R is the 3,5 cyclicphosphoryl ss D ribo furanosyl group, or a pharmaceutic ally acceptable salt thereof. 6. An antiallergic as set forth in any of claims 1 to 5 wherein the pharmaceutically acceptable salt is 6 a salt of the N w aminoalkyl adenosine compound with a member selected from the group consisting of alkali metals, alkaline earth metals, ammonia, mineral acids, organic acids and amino acids. 7. A pharmaceutical composition useful in the treat ment of allergic disorder comprising a safe and effective amount Qf an antiallergic as set forth in any of claims 1 to 6, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. 8. A method for treating allergic disorder compris ing administering to a human or animal in need of such treatment a safe and effective amount of the antiallergic as claimed in any of claims 1 to 6. 9. A method as set forth in claim 8 wherein the antiallergic is administered at a dosage level of 0.01 to 10 mg kg body weight of the human or animal.

## Description
ANTIALLERGICFIELD OF THE ART This invention relates to an antiallergic, comprising an N6 t aminoalkyl adenosine compound or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof as an effective ingredient, and a method for treating antiallergic disorder by using the same. BACKGROUND OF THE ART The compound of the present invention is a drug exhibiting an antiallergic effect by inhibiting release of a mediator from mast cells. In the prior art, as an antiallergic of this type, there has been known disodium cromoglycate DSCG . Its effect, however, is not very marked. The compound of the present invention is also a nucleic acid related compound having a purine nucleus. In the prior art, as an antiallergic having a purine nucleus, there have been known xanthine derivatives such as aminophylline. But many of these derivatives may exhibit undesirable side effects such as central nervous system stimulating effect. We have carried out screening of newly synthesized nucleic acid related compounds with the intention of obtaining compounds having more potent antiallergic effect with less side effects than the above compounds of the prior art, by utilizing the reaction of passive cutaneous anaphylaxis hereinafter referred t as PCA See, for example, Kabinsho No Sokuteiho Assay of Hypersensitivitv written by Tomio Tada, in Ikagaku Jikken hoKoza Course of Medicochemical Experimental Methods edited by Shunsuke Migita, Vol. 4 Heneki Kagaku Immunochemistry , page 235, published by Nakayama Shoten, Japan, 1972 , which has been well known as a very good means for the study of allergic reaction.As a result, it has been found that the N6 aminoalkyl adenosine compounds and salts thereof have remarkably potent anti PCA activity and are useful for therapy or prevention of various allergic diseases. The present invention has been achieved on the basis of this and related findings. SUN5NLARY OF THE INVENTION The present invention provides an antiallergic, comprising an N6 aminoalkyl adenosine compound of the formula I EMI2.1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof as an effective ingredient. In the formula I , n is an integer of 1 to 20, and R is a ribose residue or a phosphoryl ribose residue as shown below EMI3.1 5 D Ribofuranosyl group, 3 Phosphoryl ss D ribofuranosyl group,EMI3.2 5 Phosphoryl 8 D ribofuranosyl group, or 3,5 Cyclicphosphoryl ss D ribofuranosyl group. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENT ION More specifically, the compounds of the present 6 invention are inclusive of N u aminoalkyl adenosine hereinafter abbreviated as N6 aminoalkyl Ado , N6 aminoalkyl adenosine 5 monophosphate hereinafter abbreviated as N6 aminoalkyl 5 AMP , N6 w aminoalkyl adenosine 3 monophosphate hereinafter abbreviated as 6 6N w aminoalkyl 3 AMP and N w aminoalkyl adenosine 3 ,5 cyclic monophosphate hereinafter abbreviated as N6 X aminoalkyl cAMP , and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. Typical examples of N6 X aminoalkyl Ado include the following. N6 2 aminoethyl Ado N 3 amino n propyl Ado N6 4 amino n butyl Ado N6 5 amino n pentyl Ado N6 N 6 amino n hexyl Ado N6 7 amino n heptyl Ado N6 8 amino n octyl Ado N6 9 amino n nonyl Ado N6 10 amino n decanyl Ado N6 12 amino n dodecanyl Ado N6 16 amino n hexadecanyl Ado 6 N6 18 amino n octadecanyl Ado Also as typical examples of N6 aminoalkyl 5 AMP, N6 aminoalkyl 3 AMP and N6 aminoalkyl cAMP, there may be mentioned 5 monophosphate, 3 monophosphate or 3 , 5 cyclic monophosphate corresponding to the above N6 aminoalkyl Ado. Among the above compounds, N6 U aminoalkyl 6Ado wherein n 6 or more, N6 aminoalkyl 5 AMP wherein 6 n 13 or more, and all of N6 aminoalkyl 3 AMP and N6 aminoalkyl cAMP are novel compounds. The salts of these compounds are not particularly limited as long as they are pharmaceutically acceptable.For example, salts with alkali metals such as sodium, potassium, lithium, etc. with alkaline earth metals such as calcium truth ammonia with mineral acids such as hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid, etc. with organic acids such as acetic acid and with amino acids may be employed. The compounds according to the present invention have antiallergic activity and are effective for therapy or prevention of diseases such as allergic asthma,hay asthma, allergic conjunctivitis, allergic rhinitis, allergic dermatitis, etc. The compounds of the present invention can be formulated into any desired preparation depending on the route of administration according to conventional methods such as suspensions, aerosols, inhalants, powders, tablets, fine powders, capsules, granules, pills, syrups, tinctures, injections, suppositories, ointments, cataplasms, and others. In making preparations, in the case of liquid preparations, conventionally used additives such as emulsifiers, suspension aids, preservatives, stabilizers, resolvents, etc. may suitably be used. In the case of solid preparations, suitable use may be made of conventional binders, excipients, lubricants, disintegraters, etc. If necessary, there may also be added corrigents or edulcorants. The compounds of the present invention may be administered according to any desired route suitably selected depending on the compound employed and its dosage from oral application, inhalation, dermal and mucosal application, intravenous injection, intramuscular injection or intrarectal administration. The compounds of the present invention or salts thereof may be administered in a dosage, which differs depending on the compound employed, dosage form or age, body weight or severity of disease of the patient, but the dosage per day is ordinarily in the range of from 0.01 to 10 mg kg body weight. Referring now to the antiallergic activity of N6 aminoalkyl adenosine compounds of the present invention, the test results obtained for anti PCA action are set forth below.Experimental Example 1Passive cutaneous anaphylaxis PCA suDoressing effect According to the method of J. Goose et al see IrnmunoloI 16, 749, 1969 , PCA reaction was carried out in the following manner. To male rats Sprague Dawley strain hereinafter abbreviated as SD strain , weighing 120 to 150 g, 10 mg kg of ovalubumin was administered intramuscularly and 2 x 1010 cells of Bodetalla pertussis vaccine intra peritoneally. After 10 to 12 days, each rat was bled and antiserum was separated. To other rats SD strain, weighing 120 to 150 g shaved at the back, under ether anesthetization, 0.1 ml of the above antiserum diluted 4 fold was injected intradermally for dermal sensitization. After 48 hours, 1 mg kg of ovalubumin antigen , 1 mg kg of Evans blue dye and various N6 aminoalkyl adenosine compounds and DSCG or isotonic saline were challenged intravenously. After 40 minutes, the diameter of dye spots on the skin and the leak quantity of dye were measured to determine ED50 50 effective amount for each compound. The leak quantity of dye was determined by extracting the dye from the skin peeled off with potassium hydroxide, removing proteins with acetone after neutralization with phosphoric acid, and thereafter measuring absorbance at 620 nm of the resultant extract, which step was then followed by calculation therefrom. The 6N aminoalkyl adenosine compounds provided for the tests are enumerated below Sample No.Name of Compound N6 1 N6 3 amino n propyl Ado 2 N6 amino n hexyl Ado 3 N6 7 amino n heptyl Ado 4 N6 9 amino n nonyl Ado 5 N6 3 amino n propyl 5 AMP 6 N6 6 amino n hexyl 5 AMP 7 N6 9 amino n nonyl 5 AMP 8 N6 3 amino n butyl 3 AMP 9 N6 6 amino n hexyl 3 AMP 10 N6 8 amino n octyl 3 AiMP 11 N6 4 amino n butyl ck lP 12 N6 6 amino n hexyl cAMP 13 N6 8 amino n octyl cMP 14 N6 9 amino n nonyl cAMp 15 N 10 amino n decanyl cAMP Table 1EMI8.1 tb SEP ED50 SEP mg kg tb Sample SEP No tb SEP By SEP diameter SEP By SEP dye SEP quantity tb SEP 2 SEP 0.15 SEP 0.06 tb SEP 3 SEP 0.058 SEP SEP 0.06 tb SEP 0.084 SEP 0.084 SEP 0.084 tb SEP 5 SEP 0.46 SEP 0.31 tb SEP 6 SEP 0.51 SEP 0.32 tb SEP 7 SEP 0.29 SEP 0.16 SEP tb SEP 8 SEP 1.7 SEP 0.64 SEP tb SEP 9 SEP 1.9 SEP 0.70 tb SEP 10 SEP 1.5 SEP 0.70 tb SEP 11 SEP 15.0 SEP 9.4 tb SEP 12 SEP 3.3 SEP 3.2 tb SEP 13 SEP 3.7 SEP 3.1 tb SEP 14 SEP 3.3 SEP 3.3 tb SEP 15 SEP 8.2 SEP 6.0 tb SEP DSCG SEP 3.3 SEP 3.0 tb Experimental Example 2Acute tonicity tests To ICR JCL strain mice male, weighing 24 to 28 g , various N6 w aminoalkyl adenosine compound s each in free form were administered as isotonic saline solutions or suspensions each in a dosage of 0.1 m1 10 g intraperi,oneally for determination of LD50. The results obtained are shown below. Name of Compound LD50 mg kg N6 7 amino n heptyl Ado . 145 138 152 N6 9 amino n nonyl Ado 175 166 184 N6 9 amino n nonyl 5 AtsP 195 173 217 N6 8 amino n ctyl 3 Ai4P 220 200 240 N6 6 amino n hexyl c MP 165 150 180 95 confidence limit The N6 w aminoalkyl adenosine compounds which are the active compounds in the present invention can be prepared according to any suitable process which is not particularly limited. Typical processes for preparations of the compounds are described below. The starting compounds are selected, depending on the sugar residues of the desired compounds from 6 halogenopurinenucleoside compounds of the formula II shown below or salts thereof suitable for the synthetic reactions.EMI9.1 wherein R is a B D ribofuranosyl group represented by the formula EMI10.1 a S phosphoryl n D ribofuranosyl group of the formula EMI10.2 a 3 phosphoryl D ribofuranosyl group of the formula EMI10.3 or a 3,5 cyclicphosphoryl 3 D ribofuranosyl of the formula EMI10.4 and X represents a halogen atom. The desired compounds can be obtained by causing 1, diamino alkane of the following formula III corresponding to the N6 aminoalkyl groups of the desired compounds to react with the starting compounds. H2N CH2 nNH2 III wherein n is an integer of 1 to 20. 6 Such a process for preparation of N6 X aminoalkyl cAN1P has been disclosed in Japanese Patent Application 6No. 108380 1979. It is also possible to obtain N6 aminoalkyl 3 AMP as a side product when 6 halogeno 9 .b D ribofuranosylpurine 3 ,5 cyclic phosphate is reacted with a l,w diaminoalkane as disclosed in JapanesePatent Application No. 108381 1979 . Typical examples of the starting compounds are 6chloro 9 beta D ribofranosylpurine hereinafter abbreviated as CRP , 6 chloro 9 beta D ribonzranosylpurine 5 phosphate hereinafter abbreviated as CRP 5 P , 6 chloro 9 beta D ribofuranosylpurine 3 phosphate, and 6 chloro 9 ss D ribciiranosylpurine 3 ,5 cyclicphosphate hereinafter abbreviated as CRP 3 ,5 P . Typical examples of l, Åaiaminoalkane are ethylenediamine, 1,3 diamino n propane, 1,4 diamino n butane, 1,5 diamino n pentane, 1,6 diamino n hexane, 1,7diamino n heptane, 1,8 diamino n octane, 1 ,9 diamino n nonane, l,10 diamino n decane, 1,12 diamino n dodecane, 1,16 diamino n hexadecane, 1, 18 diamino n octadecane and the like. The reaction may be carried out in a solvent which is not specifically limited. Examples of the solvent are water, ethanol, methanol, dimethylformamide, dimethylacetamide, dimethyl sulfoxide, and pyridine. The reaction conditions may suitably be selected depend ing on the desired compound, the reactants and the solvent employed. The reaction is carried out ordinarily at a temperature in the range from room tempera ture to 100 C and completed within 1 to a number of tens of hours. After completion of the reaction, the desired compound can be purified and isolated according to any suitable method which is not particularly limited, but the methods conventionally used for purification Qf organic caxcunds can be applied. For example, such methods as partition method, recrystallization method, partition chromatography, absorption chromatography, ion exchange chromatography, etc. may be suitably selected or combined. The salt conversion, salt exchange or salting of the desired compound may also be performed according to conventional methods. The present invention will now be described in specific detail by way of preparation examples of typical N6 exemplary N N6 r aminoalkyl adenosine compounds of the present inventionPreparation Example 1 6Synthesis of N 3 amino n propyl Ado In 100 ml of dimethylformamide, 5 g of CRP and 15 ml of l,3 diamino n propane were dissolved, and the reaction was carried out at room temperature for 3 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure, and the residue was dissolved in water. Then, the solution was adjusted to pH 10 with 1 N sodium hydroxide, and white precipitates were collected and recrystallized from ethanol to obtain 3 g of N6 3 amino n propyl Ado. m.p. 192 1930CPreparation E ansle 2Synthesis of N6 6 amino n hexyl Ado Into 20 ml of a dimethylformamide solution containing 4.64 g of l,6 diamino n hexane.and 1.4 ml of triethylamine dissolved therein was added dropwise under stirring 20 ml of a dimethylformamide solution having 2.87 g of CAP dissolved therein, and the reaction was carried out at 400C or 3 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure, and the residue was neutralized wit,ti hydrochloric acid. The resultant solution was concentrated to dryness under reduced pressure and then dissolved in dimethylformamideAfter insolubles were filtered out, the dimethylformamide was evaporated under reduced pressure, and the residue was dissolved in water.The solution was then cooled overnight, and the insolubles were filtered out. The filtrate was applied to a column of 100 ml ofDowex 50 x 4 free acid form, produced by Dow ChemicalCo. and, after washing with water and 0.3t aqueous ammonia, the column was eluted successively with three mixtures of 5 aqueous ammonia and ethanol respectively in ratios of 9 1, 4 1 and 7 3. The eluate was concentrated and recrystallized from water to produce 1.69 g of N6 6 amino n hexyl Ado Yield 44.9 . Elemental analysis for C16H26N604 1 2H2O Calculated C, 51.19 H, 7.25 N, 22.39 Measured C, 51.11, H, 7.08 N, 22.15 MeOH UV absorption spectrum max 267 nm Preparation Example 3Synthesis of N6 7 amino n heptyl Ado A dimethylformamide solution containing 2.3 g of CEP was added dropwise under stirring into a dimethyl formamide solution containing 5 g of l,7 diamino n heptane and 1.2 ml of triethylamine, and the reaction was carried out at 500C for 8 hours.Following the same procedure as in Preparation Example 2, the solution of the reaction product was applied to a column of Dowex 50 A 4 free acid form and, after washing with 1 aqueous aimTnia, elution was carried out using a linear gradient of 1 aqueous ammonia 5 aqueous ammonia 302 ethanol.The eluted fractions containing the desired product were collected, concentrated, and recrystallized from water, whereupon 1.1 g of N6 7 amino n heptyl Ado Yield 36.2 was obtained. Uv absorption spectrum MeOH 267 nm maxPreparation Example 4Synthesis of N 9 amino n nonvl AÅao A dimethylformamide solution 20 ml containing 2.3 g of CRP was added dropwise under stirring into an aqueous solution containing 5 g of 1,9 diamino n nonane and 1.2 ml of triethylamine, and the reaction was carried out at 50 C for 2 hours. Following the same procedure as in Preparation Example 2, the solution of the reaction product was applied to a column of Dowex 50 x 4 free acid form and, after washing with 5 aqueous ammonia and with water, elution was carried out using a linear gradient of ammonia 0 5E in 30 ethanol.The eluted fractions containing the desired product were collected, concentrated, and then recrystallized from water, whereupon 2.0g of N6 9 amino n nonyl Ado Yield 61.3 was obtained. UV absorption spectrum X XMeOH 267 nm max Preparation Example 5Synthesis of N6 3 amino n propyl 5 AMP In 100 ml of water, 3g of CRP 5 P and 10 ml of 1,3 diamino n propane were dissolved, and the reaction was carried out at room temperature for 3 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated, applied to a column of Amberlite IRA 402 acetic acid form Rohm Haas Co. , and eluted using a linear gradient of acetic acid 0 1 M . The eluted fractions containing the desired product were collected and concentrated.The precipitated crystals were collected by filtration and washed with water to produce 1.5 q of N6 3 amino n propyl 5 AMP UV absorption spectrum H2O who 268 nm max AH3 263 nm 263 nm max Preparation Example 6 6Synthesis of N 6 amino n hexyl 5 AiMP In 100 ml of water, 3 g of CRP 5 and 10 ml of 1,6 diamino n hexane were dissolved, and the reaction was carried out at room temperature for 15 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated, applied to a column of Amberlite IRA 402 acetic acid form Rohm Haas Co. , and eluted with 0.5M acetic acid.Acetic acid was evapo rated off from the eluate while some additional water was added thereto. The thus precipitated crystals were collect ed by filtration and washed with acetone and ether to 6 produce 2.5g of N 6 amino n hexyl 5 AMP. UV absorption spectrum AHO 268 nm max H3O A 3 263 nm max Preparation Example 7 Synthesis of N6 9 amino n nonyl 5 AMP In 100 ml of water, 3g of CRP 5 P and 10 ml of l,9 diamino n nonane were dissolved, and the reaction was carried out at room temperature for 3 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated, adsorbed on a column of activated charcoal and, after washing with water, eluted with 50 ethanol 2 aqueous ammonia, which step was then followed by concentration of the eluate.The concentrate was applied to a column of AmberliteIRA 402 and eluted using a linear gradient of acetic acid 0 1 M . The eluted fractions containing the desired product were collected and concentrated. The precipitated crystals were collected by filtration and washed with water, whereupon 1.3 g ofN6 9 amino n nonyl 5 AMP was obtained 9 amino n nonyl 5 AMP was bbtained. UV absorption spectrum X 2 268 nm max AH3O 263 nm maxPreparation Example 8Synthesis of N6 4 amino n butv1 3 4 In 100 ml of water, 5.2 g of CRP 3 , 5 P, 24 g of l,4 diamino n butane and 3 ml of triethylamine were dissolved, and the reaction was carried out at 70 to 80 C for 3 hours. The reaction mixture was diluted with water, then made acidic with hydrochloric acid and applied to a column of activated charcoal. Then, after washing with water, the column was eluted with a mixture of ethanol conc. aqueous ammonia water 50 48 2 and the eluate was developed through a column of Dowex 1 x 2 formic acid form . After washing with water, the column was eluted using a linear gradient of formic acid 0 1 M . The eluted fractions containing the desired product were collected, concent rated and crystallized from water ethanol, whereupon 1.3 g of N6 4 amino n buty1 3 P Yield 21 was obtained. m.p. 205 210 C colored in brown UV absorption spectrum 268 nm max H3O 263 nm max Elemental analysis for C14 H 23N6 O7P Calculated C, 40.20 H, 5.54 N, 20.09 Measured C, 39.87 H, 5.72 N, 19.78 Preparation Example 9 Synthesis of N6 6 amino n hexyl 3 .MP In 100 ml of water, 5.2 g of CRP 3 ,5 p, 29 g of l,6 diamino n hexane and 3 ml of triethylamine were dissolved, and the reaction was carried out at 80 to 900C for 3 hours under stirring.The reaction mixture was treated similarly as in Preparation Example 8 and crystal lized from water ethanol to obtain 1.3 g of N 6 6 amino n hexyl 3 AMP Yield 215 . m.p. 240 2450C decomposed UV absorption spectrum AH2 268 nm max SH3O 263 nm max Elemental analysis for C16H27N6O7P Calculated C, 43.06 H, 6.10 N, 18.83 Measured C, 42.80 H, 6.33 N, l8.56 Preparation Example 10Synthesis of N6 8 amino n octyl 3 AMP In 70 ml of water, 5.2 g of CRP 3 ,5 P, 25 g of 1,8 diamino n octane and 3 ml of triethylamine were dissolved, and the reaction was carried out at 80 to 90 C for 3 hours. The reaction mixture was treated similarly as in Preparation Example 8 and crystallized from water ethanol, whereupon 1.3 g of N 8 amino n octyl 3 xS Yield 19 was obtained. m.p. 210 213 C decomposed W absorption spectrum X 2 268 nm max AH3 263 nm max Elemental analysis for C18H31N6O7P.H2O Calculated C, 43.92 H, 6.76 N, 17.07 Measured C, 44.28 H, 6.86 N, 16.862 Preparation Example 11 N6Synthesis of N6 2 aminoethyl cAMP In 50 ml of water, 3.1 g of CRP 3 ,5 P and 10 ml of ethylenediamine were dissolved, and then 2 ml of triethylamine was added thereto. The reaction was carried out at 70 to 800C for 3 hours. The reaction mixture was poured into one liter of water, then made acidic with hydrochloric acid, and adsorbed on a column of activated charcoal. Then, after washing with water, the column was eluted with a mixture of ethanol conc. aqueous ammonia water 50 48 2 . The eluted fractions containing the desired product were collected and stirred with addition of anion exchange resins,Dowex 1 x 2 formic acid form . After the resins were separated by filtration, the filtrate was concentrated to dryness and crystallized from water ethanol to obtain 2.2 g of N6 2 aminoethyl cAMP Yield 678 . m.p. 275 2800C decomposed UV absorption spectrum XH20 267 nm max XH30 263 nm max Elemental analysis for C12H17N6 0 6P Calculated C, 38.71 H, 4.60 N, 22 57 Measured C, 39.11 H, 4.83 N, 22.068 Preparation Example 12Synthesis of N6 3 amino n propyl cAMP In 30 ml of water were dissolved 2.1 g of CRP 3 ,5 P, 13 ml of 1,3 diamino n propane and 1.2 ml of triethylamine, and the reaction was carried out at 800C for 25 hours. The reaction mixture was treated similarly as in Preparation Example 11 and crystallized from water 6 ethanol to obtain 1.6 g of N 3 amino n propyl cAMP Yield 71 . m.p. 280 2850C decomposed UV absorption spectrum Aha 2 267 nm max AH3O 263 nm max Elemental analysis for C13H19N6O 6P Calculated C, 40.42 H, 4.96 N, 21.76 Measured C, 40.03 H, 5.12 N, 22.09 PreParation Example 13 N6 Svnthesis of N6 4 amino n butyl cAMP In 100 ml of water, 5.2 g of CRP 3 ,5 P, 24g of 1,4 diamino n butane and 3 ml of triethylamine were dissolved, and the reaction was carried out similarly as in Preparation Example 11. The reaction mixture was diluted with water, then made acidic with hydrochloric acid and adsorbed on a column of activated charcoal. Then, after washing with water, the column was subjected to elution with ethanol aqueous ammonia water 50 48 2 .The eluate was applied to a column of Dowex 1 x 2 formic acid form , and the fractions eluted with water were collected. This step was followed by lyophilization, where 6 upon 3.3 g of N 4 amino n butyl cAiP Yield 53 wasobtained. m.p. 245 2500C decomposed W absorption spectrum AH2 268 nm max H3O 263 cm max Elemental analysis for C14H21N6O 6P . H2O Calculated C, 40.20 H, 5.54 N, 20.99 Measured C, 40.69 H, 5.42 N, 21.23 Preparation Example 14 6 Synthesis of N 6 amino n hexyl cA In 100 ml of water, 5.2 g of CRP 3 ,5 P, 29 g of 1,6 diamino n hexane and 3 ml of triethylamine were dissolved, and the reaction was carried out at 80 to 90 C for 3 hours under stirring. The reaction mixture was treated similarly as in Preparation Example 13 and crystallized from water ethanol to obtain 3.2 g ofN 6 amino n hexyl cAtS Yield 51z . m.p. 240 243 C decomposed UV absorption spectrum RH2O 268 nm max n 3 263.5 nm max Elemental analysis for C16H25N6 0 6P Calculated C, 43.06 H, 6.10 N, 18.83 Measured C, 42.80 H, 6.33 N, 18.56 Preparation Example 15 6Synthesis of N 8 amino n octyl cAMP In 70 ml of water, 5.2 g of CRP 3 ,5 P, 25 g of 1,8 diamino n octane and 3 ml of triethylamine were dissolved, and the reaction was carried out at 80 to 900C for 3 hours. The reaction mixture was treated similarly as in Preparation Example 13 and crystallized from ethanol, whereupon 4.1 g of N6 8 amino n octyl cAMP Yield 60 was obtained. m.p. 210 2130C decomposed UV absorption spectrum H2O 268 nm max H3O 263 nm max Elemental analysis for C18H29N606P Calculated C, 47.38 H, 6.40 N, 18.42 Measured C, 47.06 H, 6.63 N, 18.04 Preparation Example 16Synthesis of N6 9 amino n nonyl cAMP In 40 ml of water, 2.1 g of CRP 3 ,5 P, 5.0g of 1,9 diamino n nonane and 2 ml of triethylamine were dissolved,and the reaction was carried out at 70 to 800C for 6 hours. The reactibn mixture was treated with a column of activated charcoal similarly as in PreparationExample 11 and the eluate was applied to a column ofDowex 1 x 2 formic acid form .Elution was then carried out using a linear gradient of formic acid 0 0.04 M , and the eluted fractions containing the desired product were collected, concentrated, and crystallized from 6 methanol acetone to obtain 1.8 g of N 9 amino n nonyl cAMP Yield 65 . m.p. 206 2080C decomposed UV absorption spectrum H2O 268 nm max Elemental analysis for C19H31N6 0 6P Calculated C, 48.52 H, 6.64 N, 17.87 Measured C, 48.09 H, 6.78 N, 17.48 Preparation Example 17Synthesis of N6 10 amino n decanyl cAMP In a mixture of 60 ml of water and 100 ml of dimethylformamide, 5.2 g of CRP 3 ,5 P, 25 g of 1,10diamino n decane and 3 ml of triethylamine were dissolved, and the reaction was carried out at 80 to 900C for 5 hours. The reaction mixture was treated with a column of activated charcoal similarly as in Preparation Example 11, and the eluate was applied to a column of Dowex 1 x 2 formic acid form . Elution was then carried out using a linear gradient of formic acid 0 0.15 M i and the eluted fractions containing the desired product were collected, concentrated and crystallized from methanol acetone to obtain 4.2 g of N6 10 amino n decanyl cAMP Yield 59 . m.p. 207 210 C decomposed UV absorption spectrum Aha 2 268 nm max Elemental analysis for C20H33N606P Calculated C, 49.60 H, 6.87 N, 17.358 Measured C, 49.93 H, 7.09 N, 17.00