# Activated apoglucose oxidase, method of preparing it, its use in specific binding assay methods and reagent means and test kits containing it.

## Abstract
A method for increasing the ability of apoglucose oxidase to combine with flavin adenine dinucleotide FAD and derivatives thereof to form active glucose oxidase by interacting apoglucose oxidase with an immunologically derived binding substance, e.g., an antibody or a fragment thereof, having a specific binding affinity for glucose ox idase. The apoglucose oxidase anti glucose oxidase immune complex is characterized by enhanced ability to combine with FAD and FAD derivatives to yield glucose oxidase activity. The activation is particularly significant at tempera tures elevated from room temperature, e.g., between 30 45 C. An improved homogeneous specific binding assay method is provided for determining ligands wherein an FAD label is used and is monitored by its ability to combine with apoglucose oxidase to form active glucose oxidase by including anti glucose oxidase in the reaction mixture.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A complex of apoglucose oxidase and an immunologically derived binding substance having a specific binding affinity for glucose oxidase. 2. A method for increasing the ability of apoglucose oxidase to combine with flavin adenine dinucleotide and derivatives thereof to form active glucose oxidase comprising the step of interacting apoglucose oxidase with an immunologically derived binding substance having a specific binding affinity for glucose oxidase. 3. The method of Claim 2 wherein said binding substance is an antibody, or a fragment thereof, to glucose oxidase, preferably an antibody of the IgG class. 4. A homogeneous specific binding assay method for determining a ligand in a liquid medium wherein flavin adenine dinucleotide is employed as label and is monitored by its ability to combine with apoglucose oxidase to form active glucose oxidase, characterised in that said apoglucose oxidase is interacted with an immunologically derived binding substance having a specific binding affinity for glucose oxidase. 5. The method of Claim 4 wherein said binding substance is an antibody, or a fragment thereof, to glucose oxidase, preferably an antibody of the IgG class. 6. A homogeneous immunoassay method for determining a ligand in a liquid medium, wherein a reaction mixture is formed by combining said liquid medium with reagent means including a a labeled conjugate comprising, as label, flavin adenine dinucleotide coupled to said ligand or a binding analog thereof, b an antibody to said ligand, and c apoglucose oxidase, and wherein glucose oxidase activity is measured in said reaction mixture, characterized in that an immunologically derived binding substance having a specific binding affinity for glucose oxidase is added to said reaction mixture. 7. The method of Claim 6 wherein said binding substance is added to said reaction mixture in the form of its immune complex with said apoglucose oxidase. 8. A reagent means for determining a ligand in a liquid medium by a homogeneous specific binding assay method, which means includes a a labeled conjugate wherein the label is flavin adenine dinucleotide and b apoglucose oxidase, characterized in that an immunologically derived binding substance having a specific binding affinity for glucose oxidase is included in said means, said binding substance preferably being an antibody, or a fragment thereof, to glucose oxidase. 9. A test kit for determining a ligand in a liquid medium, comprising 1 a labeled conjugate comprising, as label, flavin adenine dinucleotide coupled to said ligand or a binding analog thereof, 2 a specific binding partner of said ligand, 3 apoglucose oxidase, and 4 an immunologically derived binding substance having a specific binding affinity for glucose oxidase. 10. A test kit for determining a ligand in a liquid medium, comprising 1 a labeled conjugate comprising, as label, flavin adenine dinucleotide coupled to a specific binding partner of said ligand, 2 apoglucose oxidase, and 3 an immunologically derived binding sub stance having a specific binding affinity for glucose oxidase.

## Description
ACTIVATED APOGLUCOSE OXIDASE, METHOD OF PREPARING IT,ITS USE IN SPECIFIC BINDING ASSAY METHODS AND REAGENTMEANS AND TEST KITS CONTAINING IT BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 2. FIELD OF THE INVENON This invention relates to a method for increasing the ability of apoglucose oxidase to combine with flavin adenine dinucleotide FAD and FAD derivatives to form active glucose oxidase, i.e., a method for activating apoglucose oxidase. The invention further relates to homogeneous specific binding assay methods, reagent means, and test kits for determining a ligand, such as an antigen, hapten or antibody, in a liquid medium wherein FAD is employed as label and wherein the FAD label is monitored by its ability to combine with apoglucose oxidase to form active glucose oxidase. Glucose oxidase is a conjugated enzyme composed of an enzymatically inactive, high molecular weight protein component apoenzyme and FAD a low molecular weight, nonproteinaceous prosthetic group . Apoglucose oxidase and FAD have a high binding affinity binding constant of around 1010 molar1 , but can be effectively separated by treatment with acidified ammonium sulfate Swoboda,Biochim. Biophys. Acta 175 365 379 1969 . Swoboda demonstrated that apoglucose oxidase exists in solution mainly with the molecular configuration of a loose flexible coil, and to a lesser extent in a compact globular form, whereas when FAD is added the protein is converted to a compact, nearly spherical form having glucose oxidase activity.FAD is understood to most efficiently bind with the.globular form of apoglucose oxidase to yield active glucose oxidase.. Stabilization of apoglucose oxidase by intramolecular crosslinking with glutaraldehyde has been reported Solomon et aZ,Biopolymers 16 1837 1952 1977 . 2. BRIEF DESCRIPION OF THE PRIOR ART U.S. Patent No. 4,238,565 assigned to the present assignee describes specific binding assay methods wherein FAD is employed as label,and is monitored by its ability to combine with apoglucose oxidase to form active glucose oxidase. Both homogeneous and heterogeneous formats are anticipated. In a homogeneous assay for determining an antigen in a liquid medium, a test sample of the liquid medium is combined with antibody to the antigen and with a labeled conjugate comprising the antigen or an analog thereof coupled to FAD whereby any antigen from the sample competes with antigen FAD for binding with antibody.Apoglucose oxidase is also present or is added after an appropriate incubation period and is capable of combining with antigen FAD which has not been bound by antibody to yield active glucose oxidase. However, antlbody bound antigen FAD is not capable of such combination with apoglucose oxidase. Consequently, the concentration of antigen in the test sample dictates the amount of measurable glucose oxidase which results. Glucose oxidase activity is measurable in a wide variety of known manners, including colorimetric methods., The FAD labeled homogeneous specific binding assay is generally applicable to the determination of a wide variety of ligands over a wide range of concentrations.However, application of the assay method to certain existing analytical instrumentation requiring incubation of the assay reaction mixture at elevated temperatures and for short periods has been found to be limited. It has been found that the ability of FAD and FAD derivatives i.e., ligand FAD conjugates to combine with apoglucose oxidase to form active glucose oxidase decreases rapidly with increasing temperature above room temperature, to the point that at temperatures above about 30 C significantly greater amounts of apoglucose oxidase must be added to the assay reaction mixture to obtain a dose response curve.At 35 400C, the FAD apoglucose oxidase recombination reaction is slowed to the point that analytically useful dose response curves are not possible to obtain with short incubation periods e.g., 10 minutes or less for the determination of ligands at concentrations below l06M. The preparation of antibody to glucose oxidase is reported by Green et aZ, J. Immunol. 104 1094 1100 1 970 . Apoglucpse oxidase preparations useful in the FADlabeled specific binding assay method are described inU.S. Patent Application Serial No. 45,191, filedJune 4, 1979 and assigned to the present assignee. SUN M RY OF THE INVENTION It has now been found that the ability of apoglucose oxidase to combine with FAD to form active glucose oxidase is increased by interacting apoglucose oxidase with an immunologically derived binding sub stance having a specific binding affinity for glucose oxidase. Such binding substance hereinafter referred to as anti glucose oxidase may be an antibody raised against glucose oxidase or a fragment thereof, e.g., Fab, F ab , or F ab 2, or any other substance having a specific binding affinity for glucose oxidase.The apoglucose oxidase anti glucose oxidase complex has.been found to be activated to recombination with FAD.The apoglucose oxidase activation has been found to increase with increasing temperatures between 250 370C to the extent that at 370C the formation of active glucose oxidase is enhanced as much as 100 to 1000 fold by the presence of antiglucose oxidase. Thus, FAD labeled homogeneous specific binding assays for ligands appearing in concentrations between 10 S and 10 8M are made feasible for use with analytical instrumentation requir ing elevated reaction temperatures e.g., 370C and short incubation periods e.g., 5 7 minutes . BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS Fig. 1 is a graphical representation of data from the examples set forth below showing the effect of temperature on the FAD apoglucose oxidase recombination reaction in the presence and absence of anti glucose oxidase. The absorbance at 520 nm is plotted against the temperature OC . Solid line 1 represents anti glucose oxidase serum broken line 2 represents nonimmune serum. Fig. 2 is a graphical representation of data from the examples below showing optimized standard curves for a theophylline assay at 370C with and without anti glucose oxidase. The absorbance at 520 nm is plotted against the theophylline concentration ug ml . Curve 1 represents the assay with and curve 2 without antiglucose oxidase. DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS In the context of this disclosure, the following terms shall be defined as follows unless otherwise indicated Ligand the analyte which is the object of an assay, i.e., the substance, or class of related substances, whose presence or amount in a liquid medium is under determination. Specific binding partner of the ligand any substance, or class of substances, which has a specific binding affinity for the ligand to the exclusion of other sub stances. FAD labeled specific binding assay an assay, usually an immunoassay, of any of the homogeneous types described in the aforesaid U.S. Patent No. 4,238,565 incorporated herein by reference wherein the label is FAD. Reagent means a composition, test device or test kit comprising the reagents used to perform an FAD labeled specific bind ing assay. The anti glucose oxidase of the present invention may be an antibody, an antibody fragment, or any other substance having a specific binding affinity for glucose oxidase and which is derived from immunological processes. When in the form of whole antibody, anti glucose oxidase may be of any of the known classes, e.g., IgG, IgM, and so forth, and of any subclasses thereof. Any fragment of any such antibody which retains the specific binding affinity for glucose oxidase may also be employed, for instance, the fragments of IgG conventionally known as Fab, F ab , and F ab 2. Antibodies to glucose oxidase may be obtained by any known means. In particular, such antibodies may be obtained in the form of antiserum from an animal e.g., mouse, rabbit, guinea pig, goat, etc. which has been immunized against glucose oxidase.Such antibodies can also be obtained by somatic cell hybridization techniques, such antibodies being commonly referred to as monoclonal antibodies. Reviews of such monoclonal antibody techniques are found in Lymphocyte flybridomas, ed. Melchers et al, Springer Verlag New York 1978 , Nature 266 495 1977 and Science 205 692 1980 . Activation of apoglucose oxidase by anti glucose oxidase is believed to result from the formation of an immune complex which tends to hold the apoenzyme in a molecular configuration favoring the formation of active glucose oxidase upon binding with FAD. The amount of anti glucose oxidase to be added to a given amount of apoglucose oxidase to give optimum activation will be determined empirically. It has been found in general that as increasing amounts of antiglucose oxidase are added to a fixed amount of apoglucose oxidase, apoenzyme activation increases until a maximum activation is attained. The further addition of antiglucose oxidase does not result in further activation, but rather in general actually leads to decreased activation. Excess anti glucose oxidase accordingly will not be desirable. Titration of anti glucose oxidase against glucose oxidase activity will indicate for a given amount or concentration of apoenzyme the optimum amount or concentration of anti glucose oxidase to use. The ability of anti glucose oxidase to activate apoglucose oxidase occurs over a reasonably broad temperature range, running between 0 C and temperatures at which the proteins denature significantly. The activation is particularly significant over the range of 10 C tq 450C, most particularly between about 300C and about 400C. The ability to activate apoglucose oxidase with anti glucose oxidase provides particular advantages in application to FAD labeled homogeneous specific binding assays. Such assays are basically characterized by the monitoring of the FAD label by its ability to combine with apoglucose oxidase to form active glucose oxidase.In accordance with the present invention, such apoglucose oxidase is activated by interaction with anti glucose oxidase. The present invention is particularly applicable to an FAD labeled homogeneous immunoassay method for determining a ligand in a liquid medium wherein a reaction mixture is formed by combining the liquid medium with reagent means including a a labeled conjugate comprising the FAD label coupled to said ligand or a binding analog thereof, i.e., a substance which is bound by the ligand binding partner substantially the same as the ligand, b an antibody to the ligand, and c apoglucose oxidase, and wherein glucose oxidase activity is thereafter measured in the reaction mixture as a direct function of the amount of ligand in the liquid medium under assay.Such assay method can be used to determine such ligands as antigenic proteins, including antibodies, and polypeptides having molecular weights between 1,000 and 10,000,000,and haptens having molecular weights between 100 and 1,500. Alternatively, where the ligand under determinationcan bind with an FAD labeled binding partner to the ligand to affect the ability of the FAD label to combine with apoglucose oxidase, such as where the ligand is a binding protein and the labeled binding partner is the substance bound thereby, the present invention is applicable to an FAD labeled homogeneous immunoassay method for determining such a ligand in a liquid medium wherein a reaction mixture is formed by combining the liquid medium with reagent means including a a labeled conjugate comprising the FAD label coupled to said binding partner of the ligand and b apoglucose oxidase, and wherein glucose oxidase activity thereafter measured, in the reaction mixture is an inverse function of the amount of ligand in the liquid medium under assay.Such ligand binding partner pairs to which such a method is applicable include antibodies hapten or antigen, thyroxine binding globulin thyroxine or triiodothyronine, and the like. When used in an FAD labeled specific binding assay, apoglucose oxidase activation may be obtained by a variety of ways of interacting the apoenzyme with anti glucose oxidase. In one embodiment, anti glucose oxidase and the principal reagents of the assay, usually comprising a an FAD labeled form of the ligand or an analog thereof, b a specific binding partner of the ligand, e.g., an antibody, c apoglucose oxidase, and d a glucose oxidase indicator system, are combined as separate reagents to form the assay reaction mixture. In another embodiment, some of the reagents are precombined, e.g., a apoglucose oxidase and the bind ing partner and b FAD labeled conjugate and the glucose oxidase indicator system, and added to the others as combined reagents. The anti glucose oxidase and apoglucose oxidase may be added to the assay reaction mixture in the form of their activated complex. In cases of short assay incubation times and low analyte concentrations this may be preferable since in such a case essentially all of the apoglucose oxidase is in its activated form immediately upon formation of the assay reaction mixture. If added as separate reagents, the apoenzyme and anti glucose oxidase require some finite time for complete activation of apoglucose oxidase by complex ing with the anti glucose oxidase. Where an apoglucose oxidase anti glucose oxidase complex reagent is used, it may be preferable to employ monovalent antibody fragments, e.g., Fab or F ab , as the anti glucose oxidase. In this way one can prevent the possible formation of intermolecular crosslinks between apo glucose oxidase which otherwise could lead to the forma tion of suspensions or precipitates which could interfer with the assay reaction or the measured signal. The reagent means of the present invention comprises all of the essential chemical elements required to conduct a desired assay method of the present invention.Such reagent means are presented in a commercially packaged form, as a composition or admixture where the compatability of the reagents will allow, in a test device configuration of any present or future type, or as a test kit, i.e., a packaged combination of one or more containers or vessels holding the necessary reagents.The reagents of the present invention include a an FAD labeled conjugate comprising FAD coupled to the ligand, a binding analog thereof, or a specific binding partner thereof, depending on the particular assay technique intended, b apoglucose oxidase, c where the FAD labeled conjugate comprises the ligand or an analog thereof, a specific binding partner of the ligand e.g., an antibody or other binding protein , and d anti glucose oxidase as defined herein, and option ally one or more or all of an indicator composition for detecting glucose oxidase activity e.g., comprising glucose, peroxidase and a chromogen or chromogen system responsive to hydrogen peroxide produced when glucose oxidase acts on glucose .Of course, the reagent means can include other substances as are known in the art and which may be desirable from a commercial and user standpoint, such as buffers, diluents, standards, and so forth. The present invention will now be illustrated, but is not intended to be limited by the following examples. Apoglucose oxidase substantially free fromresidual glucose oxidase activity is prepared by the method described in U.S. Patent Application SerialNo. 45,191, filed June 4, 1979 and assigned to the present assignee. Theophylline FAD conjugates are prepared by the method described in U.S. Patent No. 4,238,565 assigned to the present assignee. Sodium 3,5 dichloro 2 hydroxybenzene sulfonate sodium DHSA is prepared by hydrolysis of sodium 3,5 dichloro 2 hydroxybenzene sulfonyl chloride AldrichChemical Co., Milwaukee, WI with sodium bicarbonate solution. Antibody to glucose oxidase is obtained by injecting goats on four subcutaneous sites near the shoulders with a total of 3.0 ml adjuvant 1.5 ml Freund s adjuvant and 1.5 ml saline containing glucose oxidase in the range 0.1 1.0 mg. Complete Freund s adjuvant is used for the initial injection and incomplete Freund s adjuvant is used for the booster injections. Five weeks after the initial injection, the following schedule is followed at one week intervals boost, bleed, bleed, rest, repeat. EFFECT OF TEMPERATURE ON THE ACTIVATION OF APOGLUCOSE OXIDASE IN THE PRESENCE AND ABSENCE OF ANTISERUM AGAINST GLUCOSE OXIDASEA. Reagents Mix A 2 micromolar pM apoglucose oxidase in. 0.1 molar M sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.0, containing 4 millimolar mM aminophenazone, 10 glycerol, and 0.1 w v bovine serum albumin. This mix was incubated at room temperature. Mix B 1.0 nanomolar nM theophylline FAD was added to a glucose oxidase assay reagent solution consisting of 0.1 M sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.0, 0.105 M glucose, 2.11 mM sodium DHSA, 1.05 w v bovine serum albumin and 63 micrograms per milliliter g ml peroxidase. Aliquots of this mix were incubated at the various temperatures indicated below. B. Assays Mix A 1100 microliters p1 was mixed with either 10 ul of goat antiserum against glucose oxidase anti GO serum or 10 p1 of nonimmune goat serum NI serum in disposable cuvettes. The solutions were incubated at room temperature for 15 minutes. Mix B 1.90 ml equilibrated to the desired assay temperature was then added and the reaction mixture mixed by inversion. After a 15 minute incubation at the desired assay temperature, the absorbance at 520 nano meters nm was read against Mix B. Blanks were also run exactly as above except that theophylline FAD was absent from Mix B. The results are shown in tabular form below and as a graph in Figure 1 of the drawings.The absorbance readings are corrected for the blank. Temperature Absorbance 520 nm C NI serum Anti GO serum 10 0.041 0.094 15 0.100 0.212 20 0.134 0.430 24 0.170 0.682 28 0.073 0.885 32 0.020 0.929 36 NC 0.778 40 NC 0.606 no measurable colorThese data demonstrate that the presence of anti glucose oxidase antiserum enhances the ability of apoglucose oxidase to combine with the theophylline FAD conjugate to form active glucose oxidase. At room temperature 25 C , the presence of anti glucose oxidase produces a 4 fold increase in apoglucose oxidase activation.The effect at 370C is estimated at between 100 and 1000 fold. THEOPHYLLINE IMMUNOASSAY AT 370C IN THE PRESENCE AND ABSENCE OF ANTISERUM TO GLUCOSE OXIDASEI. Assay in the absence of anti glucose oxidaseReagents Mix A Combined apoenzyme anti theophylline reagent 32 pM apoglucose oxidase and 50 ul anti theophylline antiserum per ml were added to 0.1 M sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.0, con taining 0.1t w v bovine serum albumin. This mix was incubated at 20eC. Mix B Combined glucose oxidase assay and theophylline FAD label 63 nM theophylline FAD was added to 0.1 M sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.0, con taining 0.105 M glucose, 2.11 mM sodium DHSA, 0.21 mM aminophenazone, 1.058 w v bovine serum albumin, and 63 vg ml horseradish peroxidase. This mix was incubated at 37CC. Theophylline standards Prepared by gravimetri cally spiking pooled human serum with different amounts of theophylline. These standards were diluted 10 fold with 0.1 M sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.0.Assay procedure Mix B 1.90 ml was mixed with 50 ul of a diluted theophylline standard in an disposable cuvette and equilibrated at 370C. Mix A 0.10 ml was then added and the reaction mixture mixed by inversion. After a 6 minute incubation at 370C, the absorbance at 520 nm was read against Mix B. The final assay concentrations for the principal reagents were apoglucose oxidase 1.60 vM theophylline FAD 60 nM anti theophylline 2.5 pl ml The results are shown in tabular form below and as a graph in Figure 2 of the drawings. Theophylline Absorbance serum concentration 520 nm pg ml 0 0.146 6 0.162 12 0.174 20 0.183 30 0.190 40 0.198The absorbance change over the full range of theophylline serum concentrations was only 0.052. This data represents the present optimized theophylline assay in the absence of anti glucose oxidase.II. Assay in the presence of anti glucose oxidaseReagents Mix A 600 nM apoglucose oxidase, 100 yl ml rabbit antiserum against glucose oxidase, d 20 pl ml anti theophylline were added to 0.1 M phos phate buffer, pH 7.0, containing 4 mM aminophenazone and 10 glye ol. This mix was incubated at room te. rature. Mix B 10.5 nM theophylline FAD was added to 0.10 M phosphate buffer, pH 7.0, 0.105 M glucose, 2.11 mM sodium DHSA, 1.05 w v bovine serum albumin, and 63 vg ml horse radish peroxidase. This mix was incubated at 37 C. Theophylline standards Same as above.Assay procedure Mix B 1.90 ml was mixed with 20 ul of a diluted theophylline standard in a disposable cuvette and equilibrated at 37 C. Mix A 0.10 ml was then added and the reaction mixture mixed by inversion. After a 5 minute incubation at 370C, the absorbance at 520 nm was read against Mix B. The final assay concentrations for the principal reagents were apoglucose oxidase 0.03 uM theophylline FAD 10 nM anti theophylline 1.0 pl ml The results are shown in tabular form below and as a graph in Figure 2 of the drawings. Theophylline Absorbance serum concentration 520 nm g ml 0 0.162 10 0.298 20 0.378 30 0.444 40 0.495The absorbance change over the full range of theophylline serum concentrations was 0.333 compared to 0.052 for the optimized assay without anti glucose oxidase part I above . Further, the optimized theophylline assay at 370C with anti glucose oxidase present required approximately 50 fold less apoglucose oxidase, 6 fold less theophylline FAD conjugate, and 2.5 fold less antitheophylline. These data demonstrate the greatly improved features of the optimized assay at 370C with anti glucose oxidase present over that without anti glucose oxidase. USE OF ANTIBODY FRAGMENTS TO ACTIVATE APOGLUCOSE OXIDASE I. Preparation of anti glucose oxidase IgG Goat antiserum against glucose oxidase 35 ml was dialysed against 2 liters of 15 mM potassium phosphate, pH 8.0, for 16 hours at room temperature. The dialysed solution was applied to a column 2.5 x 30 cm DE 52 cellulose Whatman Ltd., UK equilibrated with 15 mM potassium phosphate, pH 8.0. The column was eluted with the same buffer at a flow rate of 50 ml hour and 12 ml fractions were collected. The absorbance of the effluent was monitored at 280 nm.An initial absorbance peak was eluted in fractions 14 to 21 and this was pooled and labeled FIt . The eluting buffer was changed to 50 mM potassium phosphate, pH 8.0, and a second maior absorbance peak was collected in fractions 39 to 44 which was pooled and labeled FII . The two absorbance peaks correlated well with the ability of the fractions to activate apoglucose oxidase.II. Papain digestion of anti glucose oxidase IgG Fab fragments Protein from FI 50 mg was incorporated into 5 ml of 50 mM sodium phosphate, pH 7.3, containing 0.15 M sodium chloride, 25 mM cysteine, 1 mM ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid EDTA and 1 mg papain. The solution was incubated at 37 C for 60 minutes. Solid iodoacetamide 28 mg was then added to give a 30 mM solution for the purpose of inactivating the papain. This solution was incubated for a further 15 minutes after which it was applied to a column 25 x 90 cm of Sephadex G150 equilibrated with 50 mM sodium phosphate, pH 7.0, containing 0.02 w v sodium azide. The column was developed by elution with the same buffer at a flow rate of 25 ml hour and 4.6 ml fractions were collected. Absorbance at 280 nm was monitored and a peak eluted between fractions 47 td 72 was shown to contain a mixture of Fab and Fc fragments and correlated well with the ability of the fractions to activate apoglucose oxidase. This material was pooled, concentrated to 7.9 mg ml protein and labeled FI a . No whole IgG was eluted and it was concluded that complete digestion of IgG had,occurred. Protein from FII 50 mg was digested as described above. Chromatogr aphy on Sephadex G150 was performed as described above. Absorbance peaks at 280 nm were eluted, one between fractions 34 to 50 which was identi fied as IgG and a second between fractions 56 75 which was shown to contain a mixture of Fab and Fc fragments. Both absorbance peaks correlated well with the ability of the fractions to activate apoglucose oxidase. ..The first peak was pooled, concentrated to 16.8 mg ml and labeled FII a . The second peak was pooled, concen trated to 6.2 mg ml and labeled FII b . lIr. Activation of apoglucose oxidase by Fab fragments A. Reagents Apoglucose oxidase 3.2 pM was prepared in 0.1 M sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.0, con taining 8 mM aminophenazone and 10 glycerol. The glucose oxidase assay reagent contained 0.10 M sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.0, 0.105 M glucose, 2.11 mM sodium DHSA, 1.05 w v bovine serum albumin, 63 vg ml peroxidase, and 1.0 nM theophylline FAD. B. Assays Aliquots 0.20 ml of 0.10 M sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.0, containing antibody or anti body fragments were mixed with 0.03 ml of apoglucose oxidase reagent in a disposable cuvette and incubated at room temperature for 15 minutes. The glucose oxidase reagent 1.90 ml was equilibrated at 370C and added to the cuvette. The assay solution was incu bated at 370C for 15 minutes and the absorbance read at 520 nm against the glucose oxidase reagent solution as reference. The recorded absorbances were corrected for a blank assay solution without theophylline FAD . The results were as follows Activation by Fl a Fab and Fc fragments Protein Absorbance g 520 nm 0 0.050 80 0.300 160 0.555 320 0.700 400 0.900 800 0.922 1600 Q.778 Activation by FII a whole IgG Protein Absorbance lug 520 nm 0 0.050 84 0.405 168 0.779 252 0.910 420 1.044 840 1.094 1680 1.140 Activation by FII b Fab and Fc fragments Protein AbsorbÅance qlg 520 nm 0 0.050 62 0.257 124 0.504 186 0.693 310 0.918 620 1.046 1240 1.000 These data demonstrate that fragments Fab of anti glucose oxidase antibody are effective in activat ing apoglucose oxidase.