# Insecticidal control of ectoparasites.

## Abstract
A pour on or spot on method of eradicating or controll ing ectoparasites and myiasis in non human animals by the direct application of an ectoparasiticidal amount of a pyrethroid having the formula

## Claims
What we claim is 1. A pour on or spot on method of eradicating or controlling ectoparasites and myiasis in non human animals by the direct application of an ectoparasiticidal amount of a pyrethroid, having the for mulaEMI11.1 or a stereochemically isomeric form thereof, wherein R1 and R2 pre, each independently, selected from the group consisting of fluoro, chloro, bromo and iodo andR3 is a member selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and cyano, to a specific skin area of the non human animal. 2. A pour on or spot on method according to claim 1 wherein R1 and R2 are both chloro or bromo. 3. A pour on or spot on method according to claim 1 wherein the pyrethroid is permetrin, cypermetrin, decamethrin or a stereo chemically isomeric form thereof. 4. A pour on or spot on method according to claim 1 wherein the pyrethroid is cypermethrin or a stereochemically isomeric form thereof. 5. A pour on or spot on composition for eradicating or controlling ectoparasites and myia sis in non human animals, said com position comprising from 1 to by weight of a pyrethroid, having the formula EMI12.1 or a stereochemically isomeric form thereof, in a liquid medium, said medium comprising at least 50 of a solvent consisting of one or more alcohols, having the formula HO CH2 CH2 O R U wherein m is the integer 1, 2 or 3 andR is lower alkyl. 6. A pour on or spot on composition fort eradicating or controlling ectoparasites and myiasis in non human animals, said composition comprising from 1 to 30 by weight of cypermethrin or a stereochemically isomeric form thereof in a liquid medium, said medium comprising at least 50 by weight of 2 2 butoxy ethoxy ethanol. 7. A pour on or spot on composition according to claim 14 wherein said medium comprises at least 80 by weight of 2 2 butoxye thoxy ethanol. 8. A pour on or spot on composition according to claim 14 wherein said medium essentially consists of 2 2 butoxyethoxy ethanol. 9. A method of preparing a pour on or spot on composition for eradicating or controlling ectoparasites and myiasis in nonhuman animals, characterized in that from 1 to 30 parts by weight of a pyrethroid of formula I as defined in claim 1 or a stereochemically isomeric form thereof are intimately mixed with 70 to 99 parts by weight of a liquid medium, said medium comprising at least 50 of a solvent consisting of one or more alcohols having the formula II as defined in claim 5. 10. A method of preparing a pour on or spot on composition for eradicating or controlling ectoparasites and myiasis in non human animals, characterized in that form 1 to 30 parts by weight of cypermethrin or a stereochemically isomeric form thereof are intimateW mixed with a liquid medium said medium comprising at least 50 of 2 2 butoxyethoxy ethanol.

## Description
INSECTICIDAL CONTROL OF ECTOPARASITES.Description of the invention Warm blooded animals, more especially, sheep and cattle, which are valuable sources of food and fabric to man, are subject to infestation by ectoparasites which feed off their host and cause irritation, such as, for example, myiasis, resulting in a reduction of the quantity and The quality of meat and fabric produce. Various insecticides are used to eradicate ectoparasites or to interfere with the development and or the reproduction of said ectoparasites. An important group of insecticides having a good activity against ectoparasites are the natural and synthetic pyrethroids, in which group the synthetic halo vinyl substituted cyclopropanecarboxylates are especially useful because of their high insecticidal activity and their improved photostability. These insecticides are topically administered, such as, for example, by dipping or complete body spraying of animals with an aqueous solution or suspension of this insecticide, whereby the whole of the animal body is contacted by the insecticide and hence the ectoparasites living on the animal s body. These topical administration procedures have the disadvantage that a specialized equipment is required combined with a great volume of insecticidal composition, for the dipping procedure, and that the spraying procedure lacks efficiency. The insecticides are also systemically administered whereby the insecticide is transmitted within the animal by the circulatory system in the bloodstream so that the ectoparasites which feed off the blood are attacked and killed by consuming said insecticide.Art known systemic administration procedures are besides the oral and the parenteral administration procedure also the procedure where by. the insecticide is poured or sprayed onto any part of the skin, absorbed by the skin, penetrated through the skin and diffused into the bloodstream. , These systemic administration procedures have been shown to be effective against bloodsucking parasites such as, for example, ticks, e.g., bcodusRicinus, andkeds, e.g., Melophagus Ovinus. Other ectoparasites which do not consume blood are not affected by such systemic administration procedures. Such ectoparasites are, for example, lice, e.g., Damalinia Ovis, which feed on dead skin on the body of the animal. The present invention relates to a novel pour on or spot on method of eradicating or controlling ectoparasite 5 and myiasis in nonhuman animals by the direct application of an ectoparasiticidal amount of a pyrethroiNd, having the formulaEMI3.1 or a stereochemically isomeric form thereof, wherein R1 and R2 are, each independently, selected from the group consisting of fluoro, chloro, bromo and iodo and R3 is a member selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and cyano, to a specific skin area of the non human animal. The term control of ectoparasites is meant to include the interference with the development and or the reproduction of said ectoparasites . The direct application to a specific skin area includes pour on and spot on methods in which the ectoparasiticidal compound in a carrier or a solvent is applied to a specific skin region of an infested animal topically, i. e. locally, by pouring on the formulation or applying small discrete amounts or spots. The preferred area is along the back of the treated animal. Preferred methods are those wherein the synthetic pyrethroid of formula I has a R1 and R2 substituent which are both chloro or bromo. Especially preferred methods are those wherein the synthetic pyrethroid of formula I is selected from the group consisting of permethrin, being chemically designated as g3 phenoxy phenyl methy 2 2, 2 dichloroethenyl 3,3 dimethylcyclopr opane carboxylate cypermethrin, being chemically designated as cyano 3 phenoxyphenyl methyl 2 2,2 dichlor oethenyl 3,3 dime thyl cyclopropanecarboxylate decamethrin, being chemically designated as g3 phenoxy phenyl methyg 2 2, 2 dibromoethenyl 3, 3 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate and a stereochemically isomeric form thereof. Due to the very high ectoparasiticidal activity of cypermethrin the most preferred methods are those wherein the synthetic pyrethroid of formula I is cypermethrin or a stereochemically isomeric form thereof. The synthetic pyrethroids of formula I and their preparations are described in British Patent nr. 1,413,491. The stereochemically isomeric forms of the pyrethroids of formula I , which may have different degrees in activity, are naturally intended to be embraced within the scope of the present invention The present invention relates also to a pour on or spot on composition for eradicating or controlling ectoparasites and myiasis in nonhuman animals, which composition comprises from 1 to 30 byweight of a pyrethroi d having the formula I or a stereochemically isomeric form thereof in a liquid medium, said medium comprising at least 50 of a solvent consisting of one or more alcohols, having the formula HO CH2 CH2 O R li wherein m is the integer 1,2 or 3 andR is lower alkyl. As used in the foregoing definition the term lower alkyl is meant to include straight and branched hydrocarbon radicals having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms such as, for example, methyl, ethyl, 1 methylethyl, 1,1 dimethylethyl, propyl, 2 methylpropyl, butyl, pentyl, hexyl and the like. Suitable alcohols of formula are, for example, 2 methoxyethanol, 2 2 e thoxyethoxy e than, 2 2 butoxyethoxy ethanol and the like. The alcohols of formula t wherein m is 2 combine a good penetration capacity with a relatively high flashpoint, thus enhancing the safety margin, and therefor these alcohols are especially preferred. Due to its excellent spreading and run off properties 2 2butoxyethoxy ethanol is the most preferred alcohol. The amount of the alcohol or alcohols of formula II in the medium may vary within rather wide limits, from 50 to 100 by weight of the medium. It has however been found that the incidence of skin irritation shows a tendency to decrease with an increasing content of said alcohol or alcohols. Compositions wherein the medium comprises at least 80 by weight of one or more alcohols of formula are therefor preferred. Particularly preferred are compositions wherein the medium consists essentially of one or more of said alcohols. The most preferred compositions are those wherein the medium consists essentially of 2 2 butoxyethoxy ethanol. Although compositions comprising from 1 to 30 by weight of a synthetic pyrethroid of formula I are, as such, very suitable for a pour on or spot on administration, said compositions may possibly contain additives of any nature in minor proportions, which additives do not introduce a significant deleterious effect on the skin.Said additives may facilitate the administration to the skin of the animals and or may be helpful for preparing the desired compositions.Some examples of additives are cited hereinafter. Minor amounts of aliphatic hydrocarbon mixtures may reduce the surface tension of the compositions and, as such, said aliphatic hydrocarbon mixtures may prevent an excessive adhesion of the applied compositions to the hair and facilitate their spreading over the skin, resulting in an enhanced resorption of the anthelmintic by the skin. The presence of minor amounts of one or more dipolar aprotic solvents may enhance the penetration rate of the compositions.Suitable dipolar aprotic solvents are, for example N,N dimethylformamide, N, N dimethylacetamide, dimethyl sulfoxide, N methyl2 pyrrolidone and the like. The compositions may also contain other additives such as, for example, substances the taste of which deters animals from licking the applied compositions off the animals treated, pigments making it possible to recognize the treated animals and the like. Besides a synthetic pyretliroid of formula I , one or more alcohols of formula Iand, possibly, suitable additives the compositions of the present invention may also contain other pharmaceutically active compounds such as, for example, other substances with insecticidal and or anthelmintic properties. The compounds may be administered within the range of 0.1 to 500 mg kg body weight and a preferred range is between 1 and 50 mg kg. In consideration of the art known methods of application of the synthetic pyrethroids and the failure to completely eradicate lice, application to a louse infested animal at a considerable distance from the living lice in accordance with this invention was known to be completely ineffective. We have surprisingly found that, on the contrary, ectoparasites, including lice such as, for example,Damalinia Ovis, are killed and completely eradicated from sheep and cattle by a single pour on or spot on application along the animal s back. The efficacy of the ectoparasiticidal method and compositions of the present invention is illustrate by the following in vivo experiment 4 moderately louse infested sheep were given a single pour on application of a solution comprising 5 by weight of cypermetrin in 2 2 butoxyethoxy ethano1 . The louse infestation was evaluated after 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6.5 weeks.The evaluation of the louse infestation is illustrated in table 1 wherein means that numphs or adults were detected, and means that no live lice were found.Table 1 shows also the body weight of the treated sheeps, the dose in mg kg and the total volume applied along the back of the sheep.Table 1EMI8.1 tb Sheep SEP Body SEP Dose SEP total SEP SEP weeks tb no. SEP weight SEP kg SEP mg kg SEP I SEP volume SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 6.5 SEP tb SEP ml SEP tb 1 SEP 37.5 SEP 10 SEP 7.5 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP tb 2 SEP 32.5 SEP 10 SEP 6.5 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP tb 3 SEP 36 SEP 20 SEP 15 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP tb 4 SEP 37.5 SEP 20 SEP 15 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP tb The insecticidal activity of the compounds used in accordance with the invention is not regarded as 100 systemic. Although a proportion of the compound may penetrate through the skin and diffuse into the bloodstream it is impossible to attribute the parasiticidal activity completely to its systemic activity because a number of ectoparasites, such as, for example, lice, do not depend on the animal s blood for food. The residue patterns of insecticide in the blood and tissue do not correspond with a systemic bloodstream effect lasting more than a few days and our experiments prove that the eradication process takes a matter of weeks. There are many advantages in using the method of this invention.In comparison with the systemic administration procedure the method of the present invention has the advantage that not only blood sucking ectoparasites are effected but also ect6parasites which do not depend on the animal s blood for food such as, for example, ectoparasites which feed on dead skin, e.g., lice and the like. In comparison with the topical administration procedure the method of the present invention is more efficient because it is not necessary to contact the ectoparasites living on the animal s body by the insecticide. Additional advantages are direct application to the skin is an easy method to adopt by the user less compound is required than in the total immersion dip or complete body spray a ready made formulation requiring no subsequent dilution can be prepared dosage rates can be accurately measured and a single pour on application results in eradication of all ecto parasites. Although the hereinabove described compositions and methods are useful for eradicating or controlling ectoparasites in all nonhuman animals, in general they are especially preferred for the treatment of cattle and sheep. The following examples are intended to illustrate and not to limit the scope of the present invention.Example I 10 gram of cypermethrin and 50 grams of 12 2 butoxyethoxy ethanol are mixed intensively. The thus obtained mixture is diluted with 140 grams of 2 2 butoxyethoxy ethanol. Example II Following the procedure described in Example I the following compositions are also prepared Composition 1 10 grams of cypermethrin and 90 grams of 2 2 butoxyethoxy etha nol. Composition 2 25 grams of cypermethrin and 75 grams of 2 2 butoxyethoxy ethanol.Composition 3 30 grams of cypermethrin and 70 grams of 2 2 butoxyethoxy e thanol.