# A method for the prodcution of processed cereal, expanded cereals, low bacteria count cocoa beans, hulled seeds, toasted seeds, and apparatus for performing said method.

## Abstract
Processed cereal with a shape corresponding to that of the non processed grain, low bacteria count cocoa beans, hulled and toasted seeds. The processed cereals and the further products are obtained by subjecting the correspond ing starting products to a gauge pressure of at least 5 atmospheres at a temperature of 200 300 C for at least one second, while supplying heat and moisture by introducing steam through an inlet 19 debouching in the bottom of the treating chamber 18 and at the end of the desired treating time releasing the pressure at once. The product obtained has very favourable food properties and is easily digestable, while it has a good appearance and taste.

## Claims
C L A I M S. 1. A processed cereal characterized in that its shape corres ponds to that of the non processed grain. 2. A method for the production of processed cereals, for imparting a low bacteria count to cocoa beans, for hulling and toasting seeds by subjecting the cereal, cocoa beans or seeds in a treating chamber to a heat treatment in the presence of water at elevated pressure and then quickly releasing the pressure and optionally milling, pelletizing, crushing and sifting, flaking, grinding, coarsely or very finely the product obtained, characterized by keeping said cereal, said cocoa beans or said seeds at a gauge pressure of at least 5 atmospheres at a temperature of 200 3000c for at least 1 second, while supplying heat and moisture by introducing steam through an inlet debouching in the bottom of the treating chamber and at the end of the desired treating time releasing the pressure at once by means of one or a number of outlets of relatively, small diameter, including a valve mounted therein, said outlet or outlets running from the bottom of the treating chamber. 3. The method according to claim 2, characterized by preheating the cereal at from 70 to 800C before the said treatment. 4. The method according to claim 3, characterized by preheating the cereal for 3 120 minutes. 5. The method according to claim 4, characterized by preheating the cereal for 30 35 minutes. 6. The method according to claims 2 5 characterized by applying a gauge pressure of 15 25 atmospheres. 7. The method according to claims 2 6, chartacterized by using a retention time in the treating chamber of from 3 10 seconds. 8. A method for hulling seeds and imparting a low bacteria count to cocoa beans, characterized by subjecting said seeds or cocoa beans in a treating chamber at elevated pressure to a heat treatment with water while supplying heat and moisture in the form of steam through an inlet debouching in the bottom of the treating chamber and then releasing the pressure at once by means of a discharge conduit having a relatively small diameter including a valve mounted therein. 9. An apparatus suitable for carrying out the method according to claims 2 8 characterized by a conditioning vessel, a treating chamber provided with a steam inlet debouching into the bottom and an outlet having a relatively small diameter likewise debouching in the bottom and having a valve mounted therein and which outlet dabouches into an expansion chamber while the conditioning vessel and treating chamber are connected to each other by way of a conduit that may be closed. 10. The apparatus according to claim 9, characterized in that the treating chamber and the expansion chamber are connected to each other by means of a welded steel pipe. 11. The apparatus according to claims 9 and 10, characterized in that the cereal inlet in the expansion chamber is provided with an exchangeable nozzle. 12. The apparatus according to claim 11, characterized in that the exchangeable nozzle possesses a declination of from 6 to 10a,

## Description
Processed cereal, expanded cereals, low bacteria count cocoa beaus, hulled seeds, toasted seeds, a method for the production of these products as well as apparatus for performing said method. The application relates to heat and pressure processed cereals, expanded cereals, low bacteria count cocoa beans, hulled seeds, in particular oats, rice, cocoa beans and barley, toasted seeds, to a method for the production of this products as well as to an apparatus for performing said method. In consequence of the introduction of intensive cattle breeding it has become desirable to remove the piglets from the sow at an earlier date so that the sow would be able to litter new pigs sooner again. These early weaned pigs require easily digested fodder just like the young pigs which are yet kept with the sow. Processed cereals are very suitable raw materials for these easily digested fodders Likewise the sale of industrially prepared dog s and cat s food has increased every year upto the present in which fodders processed cereals are also favoured raw materials Several techniques are known for processing cereal. Mention may be made of extruding, crushing or steam flaking, micronizing IR heating , high frequency heating magnetron , explosion puffing or gun puffing, popping hot air puffing and drum drying. In extruding the cereal is milled, moistened and passed through an extruder while the temperature is raised by means of steam. The product obtained has to be dried. In crushing the grains are moistened, steamed at atmospheric pressure and crushed to thin flakes. In this case the final product has yet to be dried too. In micronizing the cereal is treated by means of electromagnetic waves in the infrared range, which may be generated by means of gas flames or heated bodies of china clay. In high frequency heating the treatment is carried out by means of micro waves having a frequency of for instance 2450 or 915 megacycles generated by high frequency generators. In explosion puffing the cereal is treated with high pressure steam for some minutes in a closed vessel which may be mounted ro tatably whereupon the lid is opened and due to the sudden drop in pressure the cereal is shot away while it expands.In hot air popping the cereal is treated with hot air or in a heated open pan. Certain cereals will puff thereby almost completely popcorn or only to the extent of part of the grains milocorn,Plata corn . Thereby the interior of the grains comes to the outside and enlarges. In drum drying a suspension of materials is passed over internally steam heated drums, dried thereon and scraped off again. The aim of these techniques for processing cereals is to prepare the cereal, to gelatinize the starch in the cereal, in the desired degree and or to improve the organoleptic characteristics taste, appearance, odour . By processing there is meant the reduction in size of particles so that the relative surface area is enlarged thus increasing the accessibility for attack by digestion enzymes. This is measured as the digestibility in animals or as the rate of attack by enzymes like for instance the starch splitting enzyme amyloglycosidase. By gelatinizing there is meant such a treatment of the starch that it will form a paste with water. This is measured as the water binding capacity. Taste, odour and appearance are usually measured by scale number tests or arbitrary judge. In formulating animal fodders highly processed raw materials are preferred which are consumed by animals very willingly. It has been found that therein a high degree of gelatination is undesirable because this causes too high a viscosity of the intestinal contents, retards the action of digestion enzymes and increases the risk of a diarrhoea In pigs a high degree of gelatination causes gastric ulcers. Accordingly, a highly processed condition is desired but too high a degree of gelatination is detrimental. This is of particular importance when cereals have to be used as a food for carnivores. Carnivores like dogs, cats, minks, fishes hardly dispose of starch splitting enzymes. This means that the cereals have to be rendered more easily digestible for these animals.A well processed product may also be of importance for other animals. In pigs for example the enzyme activity is initiated only slowly. As a consequence thereof young pigs digest raw cereals with more difficulty than at a later age. Extruded cereal possesses the drawback that the coarser parts may escape the treatment whereby an irregular product is formed which moreover lacks in flavour. Solely milled cereal being suitable for processing the starting cereal can no longer be recognized in the product. Likewise the degree of gelatination is high. By crushing, micronizing, magnetron cooking and hot air popping the degree of digestibility is increased only to a relatively slight extent whereas gun puffing yields a satisfactory product indeed but the only available very sophisticated apparature for this process is intended for production on small scale. The Dutch Patent Specification 92,843 describes especially a device for puffing cereal or a similar material by subjecting the same to heat and pressure and the sudden release of the pressure.This device is provided with a turntable having a number of processing or explosion chambers, mounted thereon radially, each. one of said chambers having a sealing head which may be moved away from and back again to the end of the chamber opposite to the turntable. , means at a point of the rotation cycle of the turntable for moving the sealing heads at a certain point of the cycle of the turntable in the sealing position on the ends of the respective chambers and for locking the same, a means for supplying steam to the chambers and means at a further point of the said cycle for releasing the locking position of the sealing heads one after another at a further point of said cycle.This device is provided with a single steam supply chamber which is connected to each one of the explosion chambers by separate conduits.A plurality of means is provided therein in order to warrant opening and closure of the chambers at the proper moment. Such a device is very complicated and causes the inconvenience of a high noise level due to the character of the explosion cylinders. Wheat and rice are mentioned as the products for which the device is intended primarily. Dutch Patent Specification 70,686 describes a similar device wherein likewise a number of pressure chambers are mounted on a rotatable support the device likewise including means for opening and closing an inlet for cereal and steam and for releasing the pres surized cereals. In this device the steam inlet valve is usually kept open until the sealing is released. From the specification it appears that a relatively low pressure is used in the pressure chambers. Only at a later time a higher steam pressure is supplied. Again this device is very sophisticated and causes the inconvenience of a high noise level whereas the productivity is limited. Surprisingly, it has now be found that in a process of the type described above high quality products are obtained by keeping the cereal, the cocoa beans or the seeds at a gauge pressure of at least 5 atmospheres, in general 5 50 atmospheres, in particular 5 35 atmospheres at a temperature of at least 2000C, preferably 200 3000C for at least 1 second, in general 1 30, preferably 3 13 seconds, while supplying heat and moisture by introducing steam through an inlet debouching in the bottom of the treating chamber and at the end of the desired treating time releasing the pressure at once by means of one or a number of outlets of relatively small diameter including a valve. mounted therein, said outlet or outlets running from the bottom of the treating chamber.The outlet conduit diameter may for instance be 25 254 mm, preferably 50 102 mm, in particular 63.5 mm. It is particularly surprising that the products coming from the treating chamber may be discharged through a conduit having a relatively small diameter without clogging of this conduit. This is even possible in case of a long conduit. Likewise it is particularly surprising that the steam supply of the treating chamber will not be clogged by cereal or dust falling therein. The degree of puffing may be influenced by selecting the diameter of the discharge conduit. A smaller conduit diameter is conducive to a higher degree of puffing. Furthermore it has been found that the noise generation was less if the product was discharged by way of a conduit having a welding seam instead of a drawn seamless tube. This is contrary to expectations in view of the rougher surface of the former. Furthermore it is particularly surprising that in this method no noise nuisance and discoloration occur as would be expected in view of the known artisan pressure processes. Other advantages are the following a the product thus heat and pressure processed does not have to be dried, it is sufficient to cool without further special measures b the energy consumption is low in relation to the degree of pro cessing reached c the product obtained possesses a particularly regular degree of processing in comparison with the known products. The regular processing is apparent from the absence or substantial absence of non puffed grains. Apart from some other data table A dis closes the digestible starch content of some products.No standard being available for such a determination the results may be compared among each other though they cannot be compared as such with other results. Table A.corn maize degradable water binding appearance odour starch capacity amyloglyco sidase untreated 14 2.4 flour fusty extrusion 39 8.5 crumb sickly corn flakes 29 3.8 flake sickly micronizing 19 3.0 grain slightly burnt high frequency 24 3.4 grain sickly hot air 17 3.0 grain toasted drum drying 45 over 10.0 flour slightly toasted invention 44 4.3 2 8x grown toasted In each one of the four assessments made the corn processed in accordance with the invention comes out favourably, this not being the case in any of the other methods for improving the digestibility d the deeply processed product obtained possesses a moderate degree of gelatination and good organoleptic characteristics e the denaturation of the protein in the corn is low in comparison with the known methods f the device according to the invention is suitable for large scale production and requires minimum attention only g without particular measures the device according to the invention is suitable for processing a large number of raw materials, like for instance corn, broken corn, wheat, oats, barley and milo h starting from these products one may produce a large number of final products by subjecting these products to an additional treatment, for instance starting from puffed maize final product treatment baby corn milling, pelletizing broken corn crushing and sieving corn flakes flaking swelling flour grinding very finely fatty core grinding coarsely i the starch according to the invention is cold swelling, i.e. in an aqueous medium it will swell without heating being required j the noise generation, like caused in gun puffing is reduced to a much lower level by discharging the product through a conduit instead of by opening a lid, the latter being accompanied by a loud bang k of utmost importance herein is that the products obtained are easily digested and of good taste 1 when applying the method according to the invention the raw material used may be recognized in the product because the product expands to all sides, so that no consumers distrust will arise. Contrary thereto a complete modification of the ap pearance of the raw material occurs in extruding or hot air popping. Therein the water in the grain evaporates. The grain is blown by the vapour until this grain will burst. This causes the irregular structure of popcorn.When applying the method ac cording to the invention the surface of the grains will remain closed more or less. From the photographs showing raw corn, ex truded corn, micronized corn and corn treated in accordance with the invention, respectively, a properly performed processing is apparent. The heat treatment in the presence of water is suitably carried out in a reaction vessel in which the cereal is heated to 200 300 C by introducing steam. If corn is used as the starting material it is appropriate to first heat the corn to 60 800C, preferably 68 720C at a gauge pressure of 10 30 atmospheres, preferably 18 20 atmospheres.An appropriate residence time of the product to be treated is from 10 40 seconds, in particular 20 seconds. The duration of the total puffing cycle is for instance 1 minute. The stated conditions apply in particular to corn and wheat. An optional adjustment for other products may be carried out without difficulty. Furthermore it became apparent that the discharge through a conduit having a smaller diameter led to a higher degree of puffing. By selecting the diameter of the conduit leading to the expansion chamber the degree of puffing may be influenced. The result thus obtained is incomparable with the result obtained by mounting a valve in the conduit and opening this valve to a lesser or greater extent. Hereby a larger diameter of the conduit gives rise to a lower degree of puffing. Accordingly it is apparent that the degree of puffing is not only influenced by the pressure differential and the degree of puffing may be influenced advantageously by choosing the diameter of the conduit. Preferably the discharge opening to the expansion chamber is provided with a funnel shaped mouth piece. The diameter of the discharge conduit is however determined upstream of this mouth piece.Preferably the declination amounts to 6 100, in particular 80 i.e.the mouth piece widens with this angle. Such a mouth piece has a favourable influence on the degree of processing. Furthermore the noise generation may be influenced by a suitable choice of the declination.Preferably the expansion chamber to be employed is provided with a conveyor belt for collecting the material falling down. Between the parts of the conveyor belt fresh air is blown in for cooling purposes. The injection of fresh air preferably occurs close to the discharge point of the cereal to be expanded. Apart from the use in expanding cereal, in particular corn, the device may be utilized for preserving cocoa beans and hulling seed, in particular husking oats, the temperature, pressure etc as a matter of course being adapted to the envisaged use. In utilizing the device according to the invention for husking oats there is obtained in a simple way a high yield and a high degree of processing of the flake which is somewhat crisper and darker than the flake processed in the usual way. The expanded product is cooled appropriately by passing air through the product. For the conduits discharging the treated cereal from the puffer to the expansion chamber any material may be used which is resistant to the temperature, pressure, moisture content etc. occurring therein. It has been found that the use of welded steel pipe is of particular advantage. In view of its smoother character one would expect that a seamless pipe would have advantages. However, it has been found that in a welded pipe clogging does notodciir ina higher rate whereas the noise generation is less. Surprisingly it has moreover been found that the risk of overheating causing too dark colour and burnt smell could be re ed considerably by utilizing an indirect preheating, thisr surprisfugly also resulting in a lower moisture content of the product. Consequently it became possible to use a much higher pressure than previously. Cereal to be treated is preheated to 30 1000 C, preferably to 60 800C preferably in particular 68 72 C. Due to such a pretreatment a product is obtained which does not require drying. In heating above 800C the risk of discoloration of the cereal increases. Furthermore it has been found that the risk of clogging of the discharge conduit became less by removing fines from the cereal to be treated by sieving before the treatment, whereas one would expect indeed that smaller particles would decrease the risk of clogging.Surprisingly it has been found furthermore that the insertion of a waiting period between the termination of the introducing of steam and the initiation of the discharge of the product does not affect the degree of puffing detrimentally although the pressure dropped considerably during this waiting period. The regular character of the product was even improved. Appropiately the treatment is carried out by sieving for removing those particles which are smaller than 0.1 to 0.9 times the mean diameter, preferably 0.2 0.3 times this diameter. Thereupon the thus sieved raw material is fed to a conditioner in which it is advantageously heated indirectly Direct heating for instance by passing hot air therethrough results in a considerably lowered degree of puffing and a considerable decrease of the regularity of the degree of puffing. It is appropriate to heat to 30 100 C, preferably 60 800C at atmospheric pressure. The pressure to be applied in the treating chamber is chosen dependent on the kind of cereal to be processed. Like already stated above it is appropriate to preheat the cereal to be processed. Due to such a pretreatment a product is obtained which does not have to be dried and remains somewhat better suitable for puffing whereas undesired discolorations and carbonisation phenomena do not occur. The duration of the heating is 3 150, preferably 25 35 minutes. In the treating chamber the grains of cereal are steam treated at the desired pressure whereupon a certain residence time is observed which is accompanied by a decrease in pressure though not in the degree of puffing. The gauge pressure is 5 35, preferably 15 25 atmospheres. The waiting period is 1 30, preferably 3 13 seconds.Hereby it is achieved that the percentage of non puffed grains becomes lower. If fed to dogs these nonpuffed grains are not digested and remain visible in the excrements . Hereafter the cereal is discharged. The duration of the entire cycle is for instance 1 minute. The processing steps to which the cereal to be treated is subjected may be described with reference to the flow sheet represented in Fig.l. In step I thereof pretreating occurs in which the cereal is purified. In step II conditioning occurs, in which the cereal is preheated, whereas in step III saturated steam is introduced until a temperaturevof from 200 3000C is reached. When the adapted residence time has elapsed the reactor is discharged and the treated cereal is shot into the expansion chamber where the expansion takes place. The apparatus used may be elucidated with reference to Fig.2. In this figure 1 is a hopper, which is supplied with the cereal to be processed through supply conduit 2. It is suitable to provide this hopper with an indicator 3 for signalling the empty condition and an indicator 4 for signalling the filled condition which may aid in automatically controlling the supply. By one or more outlets 5 the hopper is connected to one or more pretreating chambers 6. In the conduits 5 there is mounted a shut off means 7. The treating chambers 6 are provided with not shown heating means for preheating the cereal. An indicator means 8 for signalling the empty condition is suitably mounted in the lower part of these treating chambers.Through a conduit 10 including a shut off valve 9 these treating chambers are connected to a metering device 11. Ametered dose is charged by the metering device through conduit 12 into a small hopper 14 which is provided with an indicator 15 for signalling the empty condition and which hopper by way of conduit 16 including a shut off valve 17 is connected to puffer 18. The puffer 18 is provided with means for introducing steam 19. In the puffer 18 the cereal to be treated is brought at the required temperature and pressure. By opening the valve 20 it is then blown away through conduit 21 and arrive via nozzle 22 in the expansion chamber 23 which in the present case is provided with a conveyor belt 24 and a blowing means for blowing in fresh air 25.The puffed cereal is conveyed by the conveyor belt 24 to a storage room which may yet be provided with other auxiliary means. When operating such a device corn possesses usually a moisture content of about 15Z and a bulk density of 720 kg m3 before processing the same. After processing the moisture content is about 13 by weight and the bulk density 200 kg m3. When using wheat this possesses usually a moisture content of about 16Z by weight and as bulk density of 750 kg m3 before processing the same.After processing the moisture content of the wheat is 14t by weight and the bulk density 200 kg m3. Example L. 7 Kg unhusked American oats having a moisture content of 11.5t by weight was brought at a pressure of 8 atmospheres and kept at this pressure for 2 3 seconds and then shot away and separated on a so called labofix. Thereby the following result was obtained. kernel husk yield 80.7 Z by wt 23.6 X by wt moisture 17.0 Z by wt 15.8 Z by wt husk 4.4 X by wt starch 5.5 Z by wt degradable starch 24.3 Z by wt colour slightly brown moderately brownHusk kernel together make more than 100 due to the increase in moisture content. In this example already browning occurred whereas the husking was not yet sufficient. The test was repeated while applying another pressure retention time.time, including 22 seconds preheating husking effect 25 sec. 69 35 sec. 74 X 45 sec. 78 Hence one may be satisfied with lower husking effects and separate the paddy fron the kernel and recycle the same however this renders the method less simple. On the average the paddies present in the kernel after puffing and husking had a greater length than the kernels. By means of a small sorting machine they could be sorted from the kernel adjustment 9 mm holes in the wall, recepticle in the lowermost position, keeping the sorting machine adequately filled . Then the question arises whether after recycling the paddy to the puffer it was indeed husked this second time, if not, it will circulate over and over again and gather in the circulation causing a considerable reduction of the production capacity. In order to ascertain this the following test is performed Provide 4 kg USA oats, sieve to remove the corn therefrom , dry to moisture content of from 10 to 11 x by weight, pressurize at 81 atmospheres on the gauge for 45 seconds and puf, cool, separate husk material and sort out paddy on the labofix, add the paddy to the following dried charge of 4 kg and repeat the cycle 6 times. This yielded the following results Charge kg kg kg wt X loose wt paddy wt Z husk kernel paddy husk in kernel in kernel moisture in kernel 1 0.5 2.7 0.8 0.8 14 14.2 2 0.75 3.2 0.85 1.2 9 15.7 3 0.8 3.0 0.9 1.0 6 16.6 4 0.7 3.5 0.7 1.0 10 16.5 5 0.7 3.5 0.6 0.8 9 16.5 6 0.7 3.5 0.6 1.4 9 17.2 The paddy contained always some loose husk material 0.5 1.0 by weight and 10 15 Z by weight of kernel. Accordingly, the percentage of paddy did not increase, the contrary would seem more likely.The yield. The U.S.A. oats used had a husk content of 22.5 , the theoretical yield of processed fodder oats thus, excluding differences in moisture content, being 77.5Z containing OZ by weight of husk or 79X containing 2 by weight of husk. In the above test 4 kg oats yielded 3.4 kg of kernel, corresponding to 85 . When taking account of the increase in moisture content and too much husk this becomes 78X, thus very close to the yield theoretically obtainable. Even if processing losses of 2X are assumed, these 78Z is about 7 more than the average industrial yield. It is even visible that the yield is better because all kernels remain intact, no tips are broken off.Quality of product. The kernel obtained by the latter tests was rolled in order to determine how the digestibility of the starch would be. puffed normally fodder oats processed USA fodder oats Fr. moisture 16.7 x by wt 12.6 by wt starch 51.0 Z by wt 56.8 Z by wt digestible starch 24.2 by wt 22.6 by wt relative digestibility of starch 47.5 by wt 39.8 Z by wt Hereby it becomes apparent that the digestibility of the processed fodder oats thus obtained is high with respect to the normally processed fodder oats. The colour and strength of a flake are less.The colour may however be effected. Example II. Corn having a moisture content of 13 by weight was preheated to a temperature of 700C and portions of 40 and 45 kg of corn were metered into the puffer. This corn was brought at the steam pressure of 19 atmospheres gauge. After a retention time of 20 seconds the product was shot into the expansion chamber where it was cooled by means of ambient air. There was obtained a corn having a bulk density of 200 kg m3 and an amyloseglycosidasesdegradability of 39 Example III. The same conditions like in example II were applied for processing wheat in the device shown in Fig. 2. The wheat used possessed a moisture content of about 16 X by weight and a bulk density of 750 kg m3. The wheat was fed to the puffer in smaller portions i.e.portions of from 30 to 35 kg. After processing the wheat possesses a moisture content of 14 by weight and a bulk density of 200 kg m3. The amyloglucosidase degradability of the starch was 41. In other tests there was found a varying degradability of the starch dependent on the applied conditions. For wheat this variation ranged from 36 to 46.Comparative test I. In a semi industrial plant curacao rice, French oats, home grown wheat, barley, USA corn and USA milo corn are puffed, husked and ground to finer than 125 pm. The products obtained as well as some comparable calf s milk raw materials are analysed.Results of analysis rice oats wheat barley corn milo nutra rye dema paddy lijs flour moisture 9.5 8.5 11.2 11.4 7.8 8.3 7.5 13.8 11.5 fat, be 2.2 6.8 2.3 2.5 4.5 3.3 0.1 1.5 0.5 raw cell material 0.9 0.9 1.0 0.9 0.6 1.4 0.0 0.3 0.0 ash 1.3 1.6 1.2 1.4 1.2 1.3 16.4 0.9 0.4 raw protein 6.6 13.3 10.4 8.2 7.3 7.7 0.0 7.5 0.0 ppm Fe 150 175 150 130 110 100 15 20 5 starch 74 61 67.5 65 74 71 77 66 81 degradable starch 52 44.5 50.5 47.5 51.5 51.5 38.5 49 water binding 6.7 5.7 6.4 5.0 5.7 6.4 2.1 7 amylogram 500 420 300 210 220 360 1000 0 180 cost X kg 81 66 90 irreliable analysis due to formation of lumps. in Brabender units, 50 grams, 400 water, 3Q0 constant, value after 15 minutes At higher temperature the values were decreasing . From these analytical results it is clear that there are only slight differences between the several cereals when compared with each other. A comparison of some products those having the lowest husk content gives rise to the following summary in which the character is tics are in the order of decreasing importance corn wheat nutralijs rye dema swelling swelling flour starch meal meal degree of accessability good good good moderate good thickening power good good very good poor good protein content good good poor good poor iron content poor poor good good good colour good moderate good good good ash content good good very poor good good the swelling meals may possibly have an increased iron content due to little use of the testing apparatus formation of rust . Example IV. Both cold and indirectly preheated 23 minutes at 73do wheat having an initial moisture content of 14 was purified and processed at different steam pressures and discharged after waiting 7 seconds and cooled. Volume determinations gave the following results steam pressure cold wheat preheated wheat atmospheres gauge bulk density moisture bulk density moisture 12 0.28 14.4 0.23 12.8 14 0.24 14.8 0.20 12.6 16 0.20 14.9 0.18 12.9 18 0.18 15.0 0.16 13.2 Accordingly it is apparent that the expansion of already preheated wheat is somewhat easier. After processing the preheated what possesses moreover a lower moisture content so that drying may be onitted. Example V. Corn having a moisture content of 14t was purified, preheated or not, steamed at variable pressure, kept hot for 12 seconds, discharged and cooled. In addition to the bulk density the odour and colour also assessed. The following results were obtained A. When indirectly preheating to 680Cwithin 30 minutes Treating pressure, bulk density colour odour atmospheres gauge 15 0.25 pale yellow sickly 17.5 0.22 pale yellow toasted 20 0,20 pale yellow toasted 22.5 0.17 pale yellow toasted 25 0.13 pale yellow toasted 27.5 0.09 dark yellow slightly burnt smellB.Without indirectly preheating the result was 15 0.29 pale yellow toasted 17.5 0.25 slightly slightly burnt darkened 20 0.21 darkened burnt 22.5 0.18 strongly burnt darkenedWhen applying the preheating step there is found less coloration and burning at a comparable degree of expansion. Example VI. Corn having a moisture content of 14 was purified, preheated to 720C within 26 minutes, steamed under pressure to 23 atmospheres gauge for 23 seconds, discharged from the pressure vessel after a variable waiting time and cooled. The bulk density, the percentage of non expanded grains, the colour and odour were determined. The following results were obtained waiting time bulk density not colour odour seconds expanded 1 0.195 2.5 pale yellow slightly toasted 5 0.200 1.5 pale yellow slightly toasted 10 0.195 1.0 pale yellow slightly toasted 15 0.190 0.7 pale yellow slightly toasted 20 0.195 0.4 pale yellow slightly toastedBy observing a waiting period the number of not expanded grains decreases whereas neither colour nor odour are detrimentally affected. Example VII. Barley having a moisture content of 14 was purified and preheated to 630C within 38 minutes. Thereupon the grains were brought at a gauge pressure of 24 atmospheres by means of steam in the treating chamber for 25 seconds. Thereupon the product was shot away either through a pipe having an inner diameter of 51 mm or a pipe having an inner diameter of 76 mm. Determination of the bulk density over 5 cycles for both kinds of pipe yielded the following results in kilograms per liter. 51 m pipe 0.143 0.124 0.118 0.120 and 0.115 76 mm pipe 0.190 0.182 0.179 o.185 and 0.182Contrary to expectations the less obstructed passage through the larger pipe did not cause greater expansion but a lesser expansion. Example VIII. A pressure vessel for test purposestwas built while providing the same with three separate steam inlets capable of being opened and closed that is in the bottom, in the middle of the side wall and at the top part of the side wall, respectively Corn was treated with steam admitted successively through one of the three inlets. The following measurements were made. steam admitted at bulk density after processing, kg l bottom 0.21 middle 0.26 top 0.36The best expansion result was obtained by steam admission at the bottom, no clogging of the steam inlet at the bottom occurred even after frequent use Example IX. In two samples of untreated cocoa beans the bacteria count was determined and assessed at 2,300,000 and 480,000 bacteria per gram.Corresponding lots of cocoa beans were processed in accordance with the method of the invention and sampled when leaving the expansion chamber. Thereby there were found 600 and 300 bacteria per gram, respectively. Accordingly it appears that 99.97 and 99.94 of the bacteria, respectively, are killed by the treatment according to the invention. Example X. The noise generation was determined upon discharging the product a without any discharge pipe, b through a coupled discharge pipe having a welding seam, c through a coupled seamless discharge pipe and e with closed access port to the expansion tunnel. In the cases a, b and c the access port to the expansion room was opened. Both pipes had an inner diameter of 102 mm and a wall thickness of 5 mm.The loudness was measured by means of a general radio, type 1933 sound analysis system meter. Measurements were made both in the middle of each one of the octave bands in the audible range and with an A filter. The results of the measurements are plotted in the annexed diagram of ISO TC curves. The measurements were performed at a distance of 2 meters from the discharge point of the pressure vessel and perpendicular to the discharge direction. Under these conditions the dB A values were as follows a 125 dB A b 114 dB A c 111 dB A d 102 dB A The use of a discharge pipe causes a drastic reduction of the noise generation in comparison with directly discharging. The seamless pipe generates more noise than the pipe having a welding seam. Likewise the discharge into a separate insulated room results in a drastic reduction of the loudness during the discharge and when measured at the same measuring point. Example XI. The schedule was as follows BV 95 Baby start grain including 56.9 of raw cornBV 96 Baby start grain including 56.95 of baby corn product of the invention BV 97 Baby start grain including 36.9 of raw corn 20 of baby corn.Farm Experiment farm Reigersbosch at Wijde Wormer.Animals 22 pigs from own sows 14 pigs originating from Smit, Heiloc. Accommodation Ground pens Section I of pigs shed, 6 pigs per pen.Testing period 6 weeks. DiscussionTest proceeding Apart from a single case of diarrhoea the first week passed without problems. Deviation did not occur.Growth The growth of the pigs was good.The best growth was achieved by group BV 97 raw corn baby corn . This is followed by group BV 96 baby corn . The group on raw corn BV 95 lagged behind somewhat in growth. This group included one animal not growing well. Even if this animal is left out of consideration the growth of this group falls noticebly behind in comparison with the other two groups. If the growth of group BV 95 raw corn is assumed to be 100, the index figures are as follows BV 95 BV 96 BV 97 growth 0 2 weeks 100 95.0 91.4 128.0 123.1 2 4 weeks 100 105.1 100.8 136.7 131,2 4 6 weeks 100 144.2 137.9 113.8 108.8 0 6 weeks 100 119.9 114.9 124.3 119.1 The difference in growth between BV 9S and BV 97 is significant. The difference in growth within the groups is slightest for group BV 97 and most substantial for group BV 95.Fodder consumption. In this test the fodder consumption was very good.The highest consumption was found for group BV 97 corn baby corn totalling 44.93 kg.The group on raw corn BV 95 had the lowest consumption.If the fodder consumption of group BV 95 raw corn is assumed to be 100 the index figures are as follows BV 95 BV 96 BV 97 fodder consumption 0 2 weeks 100 90.9 103.0 2 4 weeks 100 101.3 108.9 4 6 weeks 100 105.0 107.4 0 6 weeks 100 101.2 107.0Fodder costs per one kilogram of growth. The fodder costs per one kilogram of growth are the lowest for group BV 97 followed by BV 96 whereas group BV 95 has the highest fodder costs per one kilogram of growth, even if the worst grower is omitted.Discussion, At the experiment farm a baby pig test was performed in order to test baby start grain including 56.9X of raw corn, 56.9X of baby corn and as the third 36.9 of raw corn 20 of baby corn, respectively.Drop out did not occur, though in group BV 95 there was one poorly growing pig which indeed affected the result of this group. If this poorly growing pig is left out of consideration even then the result of this group is the least favourable of the three.Summary.1. At the experiment farm a baby pig test was performed in order to compare fodders containing raw corn with fodders containing baby corn.2. The fodders containing baby corn caused a better growth, fodder consumption and conversion.3. The fodder costs per one kilogram of growth were also lower for the fodders containing baby corn. Table average results. BV 95 BV 96 BV 97Number of animals 12 12 12Initial weight 9 8.9 8.9Growth 0 2 weeks 5.00 5.2 4.75 6.40 2 4 weeks 5.85 6.1 6.15 8.00 4 6 weeks 8.70 9.1 12.55 9.90 0 6 weeks 19.55 20.4 23.45 24.30Fodder consumption O 2 weeks 8.25 7.50 8.50 2 4 weeks 12.09 12.25 13.17 4 6 weeks 21.66 22.75 23.26 0 6 weeks 42.00 42.50 44.93Fodder conversion 0 2 weeks 1.65 1.58 1.33 2 4 weeks 2.07 1.99 1.65 4 6 weeks 2.49 1.81 2.35 0 6 weeks 2.15 2.06 1.81 1.85 Test compositions. BV 95 BV 96 BV 97 corn 56.9 36.9 baby corn 56.9 20.skimmed milk powder 12. 12. 12.soya 50Z 13.85 13.85 13.85 middlings 10. 10. 10.beef fat 2.5 2.5 2.5 meat meal 3. 3. 3.dibadox 0.1 0.1 0.1 covicoot 0.1 0.1 0.1 methomix 0.35 0.35 0.35 sow. min.kern. 1. 1. 1.copper premix 0.2 0.2 0.2 100. 100. 100. Dibadox 150 ppm dimetridazol 50 ppm carbadox in the fodder.analysis baby start grainAnalyzed BV 95 BV 96 BV 97 baby corn moisture 11.8 11.2 11.4 12.4 fat 5.6 5.2 5.4 3.7 raw protein 17.4 18.3 18.4 9.5 17.1 18.7 18.7 ash 4.7 4.7 4.9 1.4 raw cell material 3.2 2.6 2.6 2.0 starch EEG 43.5 42.5 43.0 62.5 starch hydrolyzed by amyloglucosidase Example XII. Different test fodders were supplied to two groups of 12 piglets each, the fodders differing only therein that fodder A contained 20Z more of untreated corn, than the fodder B. Instead thereof the fodderB contained 202 of corn processed in accordance with the invention.At the beginning of the test the piglets had an average weight of 9 kg. During the test the following results were obtained piglets piglets consuming consuming fodder A fodder B growth 0 2 weeks 5.00 6.40 growth 2 4 weeks 5.85 8.00 growth 4 6 weeks 8.70 9.90 growth 0 6 weeks 19.55 24.30 fodder consumed 0 2 weeks 8.25 8.50 fodder consumed 2 4 weeks 12.09 13.17 fodder consumed 4 6 weeks 21.66 23.26 fodder consumed 0 6 weeks 42.00 44.93 fodder conversion1 kg fodder kg growth 0 2 weeks 1.65 1.33 2 4 weeks 2.07 1.65 4 6 weeks 2.49 2.35 0 6 weeks 2.15 1.85The piglets fed with the fodder B containing corn according to the invention consumed 7 by weight more than the piglets supplied with the fodder A.The growth of the pigs of group B was 24 better than that of group A and the fodder conversion in the pigs of group B was better with 16X. Example XIII. 6 German dog hounds were supplied with test fodders for 4 weeks.Fodder A contained 56 by weight of extruded corn contrary to fodderB containing 56 by weight of the processed corn prepared in accordance with the method of the invention. The amount of solid excrements were weighed daily. It is desired that this amount is low because the environmental contamination will then be less. Thereafter the fodders were exchanged. The results were as follows fodder A fodder B daily amount of excrements in grams 935 833 The corn processed in accordance with the invention was conducive to less excrements than extruded corn. The same dogs were fed a blend of extruded corn and corn processed according to the invention in a weight ratio of 1 1 for a week. In this period a taste preference test was performed four times by putting two trays containing extruded corn and corn processed according to the invention, respectively, before the animals and removing the above blend. The preference results were preference for extruded corn 0 times preference for the corn processed according to the invention 14 times no difference 6 timesWhen left at free choice the dogs will usually select the corn treated in accordance with the invention. Example XIV. 6 German dog hounds were given either fodder A or fodder B. The amount was 1 kg per animal per day. The fodder A contained 22.5Z by weight of corn flakes according to the invention and 22.5X wheat flakes according to the invention and 55Z by weight other constituents.The cereal flakes were prepared by processing the cereal in accordance with the method of the application and furthermore removing the husks loosened in expanding the grains of the cereal and then rolling the remaining materials. The fodder B contained the same 55Z by weight of other constituents, 22.5X by weight of wheat flakes prepared by flaking wheat on a flaking roller and 22.5 by weight of corn flakes prepared by crushing corn, moistening the same to 18 moisture, steaming at 950C, flaking on a flaking roller, drying and cooling. The solid excrements of the dogs were collected and weighed daily.The results were fodder A fodder B containing flakes containing usual according to the flakes invention grams of excrements per day 462.9 612.3 The fodder containing 45Z by weight of flakes according to the invention caused appreciably less excrements than the corresponding fodder containing the usual flakes. Example XV. Corn was processed in accordance with the method and additionally ground. The processed corn as well as the non processed corn were worked up to an animal fodder for young pigs. In fodder A there was used 56.9 of raw corn and in fodder B 56.9Z of the corn processed in accordance to the invention. In pigs each weighing 5 to 12 kg the digestion coefficients of the two fodders were measured. There were obtained 60 results in total. When substituting 56.9Z by weight of corn according to the invention in fodder B form 56.9 by weight of raw corn in fodder A the following average increase in digestibility of the total ration occurred. dry material 4.4 raw protein 4.0Z . raw fat 7.4X other carbohydrates 3.0X raw cell material 11.6 Comparative test II. A sample of ground corn according to the invention as well as extruded corn was fractionated by sieving. In each one of the fractions the degree of degradability was determined. In the untreated corn taken from the same lot the measured amount of degradable starch was 17. extruded corn corn according to the invention wt X degradable X wt degradable fraction starch fraction starch over 0.75 mm 37 20 35 42 0.75 0.45 mm 21 31 23 44 0.45 0.30 mm 15 49 18 43 below 0.30 mm 28 53 24 48From this it is apparent that the coarse parts of the extruded corn meal show a but moderate degradability in the corn meal according to the invention the coarse parts show a good degradability.Comparative test III. In a plant in operation the sieve plate separating the fines from the corn was removed from the purifying device for some hours so that unsifted corn had to be processed. The clogging number in the discharge pipe was 14 per 1000 cycles compared with usually less than 1 per 1000 cycles.