# Process for the preparation of azabicyclo 3.2.0 hept 2 ene derivatives.

## Abstract
A process for the preparation of an antibacterially active compound of the formula I

## Claims
WHAT WE CLAIM IS 1. A process for the preparation of a compound of the formula I EMI34.1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or in vivo hydrolysable ester thereof wherein R and R independently represent a hydrogen atom or an organic group, and R represents an optionally substituted aromatic or heteroaromatic moiety which process comprises the reaction of a compound of the formula it EMI34.2 or reactive derivative thereof, wherein R1 and R2 are as defined in relation to formula I and Ra is a carboxy blocking group or a hydrogen atom with a compound of the formula III X R3 III wherein X is a displaceable group, and thereafter if necessary i removing any carboxy blocking group R ii converting the product into a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or in vivo hydrolysable ester. 2. A process as claimed in claim 1 adapted for the preparation of a compound of the formula I wherein R1 and R2 are independently selected from hydrogen or substituted and unsubstituted alkyl, alkenyl, and alkynyl, having from 1 10 carbon atoms cycloalkyl, cycloalkylalkyl, and alkylcycloalkyl, having 3 6 carbon atoms in the cycloalkyl ring and 1 6 carbon atoms in the alkyl moieties aryl, such as phenyl aralkyl, aralkenyl, and aralkynyl wherein the aryl moiety is phenyl and the linear chain has 1 6 carbon atoms heteroaralkyl, heterocyclyl and heterocyclylalkyl wherein the substituent or substituents relative to the above named radicals are selected from the group consisting of amino, mono , di and tri alkylamino, hydroxyl, alkoxyl, mercapto, alkylthio, arylthio such as phenylthio, sulfamoyl, amidino, guanidino, nitro, chloro, bromo, fluoro, cyano and carboxy, and wherein the hetero atom or atoms in the above named heterocyclic moieties are selected from the group consisting of 1 4 oxygen, nitrogen or sulphur atoms, and wherein the alkyl moieties of the above recited substituents have 1 6 carbon atoms. 3. A process as claimed in claim 2 adapted for the preparation of a compound of the formula I wherein one of R1 and R2 is a hydrogen atom and the other is sulphonato oxyethyl or hydroxyalkyl containing up to 6 carbon atoms. 4. A process as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3 adapted for the preparation of a compound of the formula 3 I wherein R is an optionally substituted ring system selected from phenyl, pyrimidinyl, triazinyl, thiazolyl, pyridyl, thiadiazolyl, oxazolyl, imidazolyl, benzimida zolyl, furyl or benzothiazolyl. 5. A process as claimed in any of claims 1 to 4 wherein is is substituted by one or more groups selected from nitro, cyano, chloro, fluoro, iodo, bromo, esterified sulphonyloxy, esterified carboxy, alkanoyl, arylcarbonyl, C1 6 alkoxy, aryloxy, aralkoxy, sulphonamido, trifluoro methyl and carbamoyl. 6. A process as claimed in any of claims 1 to 5 wherein X is a chloro, bromo, tosylate or mesylate moiety. 7. A process as claimed in any of claims 1 to 6 wherein the reaction is performed on a thiol of the formula II in the presence of anhydrous potassium carbonate. 8. A process as claimed in any of claims 1 to 7 wherein a phase transfer catalyst is present. g, A process as claimed in claim 1 for the preparation of p Nitrobenzyl 5R,6S 3 4 chloro 6 methyl pyrimidin 2 yl thio 6 S l hydroxyethyl 7 oxo l azabicyclo 3.2. hept 2 ene 2 carboxylate p nitrobenzyl 5R,6S 3 4,6 dimethyoxy l,3,5 triazin 2 ylthio 6 S l hydroxyethyl 7 oxo 1 azabicyclo 3.2.0 hept 2 ene 2 carboxylate p nitrobenzyl 5R,6R 3 4,6 dimethoxy 1,3,5 triazin 2 ylthio 6 S 1 hydroxyethyl 7 oxo 1 azabicyclo 3.2.0 hept 2 ene 2 carboxylate 5R,6R 3 C4,6 dimethoxy ls3X5 triazin 2 ylthio 6 c s hydroxyethyl 7 oxo 1 azabicyclo 3.2.0 hept 2 ene 2 car boxylic acid p nitrobenzyl SR,6R 3 5 nitropyrimid 2 yl thio 6 C S l hydroxyethyl 7 oxo l azabicyclo 3.2.0 hept 2 ene 2 carboxylate SR,6R 3 S aminopyrimid 2 yl thio 6 S l hydroxyethylj 7 oxo 1 azabicyclo 3.2.0 hept 2 ene 2 carboxylic acid tetra n butylammonium salt of p nitrobenzyl 5R,6R 6 C S l hydroxysulphonyloxyethyl 3 5 nitropyrimid 2 ylthiol 7 oxo 1 azabicyclo 3.2.0 hept 2 ene 2 carboxylate sodium 5R,6R 3 5 aminopyrimidyl 2 thio 6 S l hydroxysulphonyloxyethyl 7 oxo l azabicyclo 3.2.0 hept 2 ene carboxylate p nitrobenzyl SR, 6R 3 5 nitrothiazol 2 yl thio 6 S l hydroxyethyl 7 oxo l azabicyclo 3.2.O hept 2 ene 2 carboxylate p nitrobenzyl 5R,6R 3 5R,6R 3 5 nitropyrid 2 yl thio 6 s l hydroxyethyl 7 oxo 1 aza bicyclo 3.2.o hept 2 ene 2 carboxylate sodium salt of p nitrobenzyl 5R,6R 6 S l hydroxy sulphonyloxyethyl 3 5 nitrothiazol 2 ylthio 7 oXo 1 azabicyclo 3.2.0 hept 2 ene 2 carboxylate. 10. A compound of the formula IV or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or in vivo hydrolysable ester thereof EMI37.1 wherein R4 is hydrogen or a SO3H moiety, and R is an optionally substituted triazinyl group. 11. A pharmaceutically composition which comprises a compound as claimed in claim 10 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

## Description
CHEMICAL PROCESS This invention relates to a chemical process for preparing carbapenem derivatives and in particular to 3 substituted thio carbapenem derivatives. These carbapenems are useful in the treatment of antibacterial infection either alone or in combination with other therapeutic agents. European Patent Application Publication Nos.0001627, 0001628, 0008514, 017970 and 017992 disclose a wide variety of carbapenem derivatives. We have found a new process for the preparation of certain of these compounds. Accordingly the present invention provides a process for the preparation of a compound of the formula I EMI1.1 and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and in vivo R1 esters thereof wherein 1 and R 2.hydrolysable esters thereof wherein independently represent a hydrogen atom or an organic group, and R3 represents an optionally substituted aromatic or heteroaromatic moiety which process comprises the reaction of a compound of the formula II EMI2.1 or reactive derivative thereof, wherein R1 and R2 are as defined in relation to formula I and Ra is a carboxyblocking group or a hydrogen atom with a compound of the formula III X R3 III wherein X is a displaceable group, and thereafter if necessary i removing any carboxy blocking group R ii converting the product into a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or in vivo hydrolysable ester. The process of this invention may be carried out in any solvent that is substantially inert during the reaction, for example tetrahydrofuran, dimethylformamide, dioxan, dimethoxyethane, dimethoxydiethyl ether or hexamethylphosphoramide. Of these solvents dimethylformamide is preferred. When the thiol compound of the formula II is used, the reaction is normally carried out in the presence of an acid acceptor, for example a carbonate or bicarbonate such as anhydrous potassium carbonate. Alternatively we have found it useful to use a phase transfer catalyst. Particularly suitable phase transfer catalysts include tetrabutylammonium bromide and benzyldimethyl n hexadecyl ammonium bromide. Suitable solvents include halogenated water immiscible solvents such as chloroform and dichloromethane in the presence of aqueous base such as aqueous sodium hydroxide. The reaction is normally performed at a non 0 0 extreme temperature, for example 30 C to 60 C, more suitably 100C to 400C and preferably at ambient temperature. The reaction may employ either a compound of the formula II or a reactive derivative thereof. Suitably X is a halo moiety such as bromo or chloro or is a sulphonate ester moiety such as a tosylate or mesylate. Of these preferably X is a chloro or bromo moiety. Instead of using an acid acceptor in the reaction, a reactive derivative of the thiol may be used, preferably the reactive derivative is a salt of the thiol, in particular an alkali metal salt such as sodium or potassium. The amount of compound of the formula III is generally between 1.0 and 2.0 moles per mole equivalent of the thiol of the formula 11 or reactive derivative thereof. The group R in the compound of the formulae I and III may be an optionally substituted aromatic or heteroaromatic moiety. Suitable substituents include those which are electron withdrawing. Examples of suitable electron withdrawing substituents include nitro, cyano, chloro, fluoro, iodo, bromo, esterified sulphonyloxy or esterified carboxy wherein the ester group includes those of formula a f as hereinafter defined, alkanoyl, arylcarbonyl, C16 alkoxy, aryloxy, aralkoxy, sulphonamido, trifluoromethyl and and carbamoyl. The group R optionally may have further substituents either alone or in addition to one or more electronwithdrawing substituents, provided that they are not sufficiently electron attracting so that they deactivate the aromatic or heteroaromatic nucleus and prevent reaction from occurring. For example further suitable substituents include C16 alkyl, C26 alkenyl, aryl such as phenyl, aryl C1 6 alkyl, aryl C2,6 alkenyl, heteroaryl, heteroaryl C1,6 alkyl, heterocyclyl, heterocyclyl C1,6 alkyl, C16 alkylthio, arylthio such as phenylthio, hydroxy, mercapto, amino and protected amino such as C16 alkylamino, di C16 alkylamino and C16 alkanoylamino wherein the hetero atom or atoms in the above named heterocyclic and heteroaryl moieties are selected from one to four oxygen, sulphur or nitrogen atoms and the ring contains not greater than ten ring atoms. Preferred substituents include C1 6 alkyl such as methyl and ethyl, nitro, C16 alkoxy such as methoxy and ethoxy, chloro, bromo, iodo and cyano. An example of R being an aromatic moiety is phenyl. Suitably when R3is a heteroaromatic moiety it is a 5 to 7 membered ring, preferably a 5 or 6 membered ring wherein the hetero atom or hetero atoms are selected from 1 to 4 oxygen, nitrogen or sulphut atoms. In one suitable aspect such a heteroaromatic moiety may be fused to another ring, for example a phenyl ring, so as to form a bicyclic aromatic ring system. Examples of suitable heteroaromatic ring systems include pyrimidinyl, triazinyl, thiazolyl, pyridyl, thiadiazolyl, oxazolyl, imidazolyl, benzimidazoyl, furyl and benzothiazolyl. Preferably R3is an optionally substituted phenyl, pyrimidine or triazine group. In a further aspect R is favourably an optionally substituted thiazolyl or pyridine group. Preferably in the compounds of the formulae I and II either R1 or R2 is a hydrogen atom. In an alternative aspect both R1 and R2 are hydrogen atoms. When the group R1 or R2 represents an organic radical, it may be substituted and unsubstituted alkyl, alkenyl, and alkynyl, having from 1 10 carbon atoms cycloalkyl, cycloalkylalkyl, and alkylcycloalkyl, having 3 6 carbon atoms in the cycloalkyl ring and 1 6 carbon atoms in the alkyl moieties aryl, such as phenyl aralkyl, aralkenyl, and aralkynyl wherein the aryl moiety is phEnyl and the linear chain has 1 6 carbon atoms heteroaralkyl, heterocyclyl and heterocyclylalkyl wherein the substituent or substituents relative to the above named radicals are selected from the group consisting of amino, mono , di and tri alkylamino, hydroxyl, alkoxyl, mercapto, alkylthio1 arylthio such as phenylthio, sulfamoyl, amidino, guanidino, nitro, chloro, bromo, fluoro, cyano and carboxy, and wherein the hetero atom or atoms in the above named heterocyclic moieties are selected from the group consisting of 1 4 oxygen, nitrogen or sulphur atoms, and wherein the alkyl moieties of the above recited substituents have 1 6 carbon atoms. Preferably one of R1 and R2 is a hydrogen atom and the other is sulphonato oxyethyl or hydroxyalkyl containing up to 6 carbon atoms, in particular a hydroxyethyl or a hydroxypropyl. In a favoured aspect one of R1 and R2 is hydrogen and the other is sulphonato oxyethyl or a hydroxyethyl. In the compounds of the formulae I and II ifR1 is a hydrogen atom and R2is not a hydrogen atom, or vice versa, then said compounds may have the cis or transconfiguration about the ss lactam ring, that is to say they have the 5R,6R or 5R,6S configuration. Alternatively the compounds of the formulae I and II may be presented in the form of a cis trans mixture. Suitable carboxyl blocking derivatives for the group C02Ra in formula II include salts, esters, and anhydride derivatives of the carboxylic acid. The derivative is one which may readily be cleaved at a later stage of the reaction. The salts need not be pharmaceutically acceptable. Suitable salts include inorganic salts, for example metal salts such as silver or mercuric salt, or alkali metal salts such as the lithium or sodium salt, tertiary amine salts, such as those with tri lower alkylamines, N ethylpiperidine, dimethylpiperazine. A preferred salt is with triethylamine. Suitable ester forming carboxyl blocking groups are those which may be removed under conventional conditions. Such groups for Ra include benzyf, p methoxybenzyl, 2,4 ,6 trimethylbenzyl, 3,5 di t butyl 4hydroxybenzyl, benzoylmethyl, p nitrobenzyl, 4 pyridyl methyl, ,2 , 2 trichloroethyl, 2,2, 2 tribromoethyl, t butyl, t amyl, diphenylmethyl, triphenylmethyl, adamantyl, 2 benzyloxyphenyl, 4 inetbylthiophenyl, tetrahydrofur 2 yl, tetrahydropyran 2 yl, pentachlorophenyl, p toluenesulphonylethyl, methoxyinethyl, a silyl, stannyl or phosphorus containing group, an oxime radical of formula CHR where R is aryl or heterocyclic, or an in vivo hydrolysable ester0 The carboxyi group may be regenerated from any of the above esters by usual methods appropriate to the particular Ra group, for example, acid and base catalysed hydrolysis, or by enzymically catalysed hydrolysis, or by hydrogenation. The hydrolysis must of course be carried out under conditions to which the groups on the rest of the molecule are stable. When it is desired to produce a compound of formula I in the form of a free acid or salt by the process of this invention, a compound of formula II is generally employed wherein Ra is a carboxylblocking group. For the preparation of a compound of formula I in the form of a pharmaceutically acceptable ester, it is convenient to employ a compound of formula II wherein Ra represents the desired ester group. Preferably the process of this invention is performed on a compound of the formula II wherein Ra is an esterforming group. Suitable esters of the compounds of the formula II for use in the process of this invention include those cleavable by biological methods and by chemical methods such as hydrogenolysis, hydrolysis, electrolysis or photolysis. Suitably the carboxylic acid is esterified by a group of the sub formula a , b , c , d , e or f EMI9.1 EMI10.1 vl erein A1 is a hydrogen atom,C1 6 alkanoyl or an alkyl, alkenyl or alkynyl group of up to 3 carbon atoms A2 is a hydrogen atom or a X ethyl group A is a phenyl group or a phenyl group substituted by a fluorine, chlorine or brollline atom or a nitro, methyl or methoxy group A4 is A hydrogen atom or a phenyl group or a phenyl group substituted by a fluorine, chlorine or bromine atom or a nitro, methyl or methoxy group A5 is a hydrogen atom or a methyl group A6 is a C1 4 alkyl, phenyl or C1 4 alkoxy group or A5is joined to A6 to form a phthalidyl, dimethylphalidyl or dimethoxyphthalidyl group A is a C14 alkyl, phenyl, chlorophenyl or nitrophenyl group A is a C1 4 alkyl or phenyl group A9 is a C1 4 alkyl or phenyl group A10 is C1 4 alkyl and A11 is C1 4 alkyl or CHA A is a phenacyl or bromophenacyl group. Favourably A1 is a hydrogen atom or a methyl, ethyl, vinyl or ethenyl group. Favourably A2 is a hydrogen atom. Favourably A is a phenyl, p bromophenyl, p methoxyplenyl or p nitrophenyl group. Favourably A4 is a hydrogen atom. Favourably A is a methyl, t butyl or etoxy croup or is joined to A5. Favourably A7 is a methyl grpu Preferred groups of the sub fol lllula a inclide t le Ethyl, ethyl and acetonyl groups. Preferred groups of the sub formula b include the benz4yl and p nitrobenzyl groups. Preferred groups of the sub formula c include the acetoxymethyl, pivaloyloxynethyl, a ethoxycarhony oxy methyl and phthalidyl groups. A preferred group of the sub formula d is the methoxymethyl group. Preferred groups of the sub formula e include the trimethylsilyl, tert butyldimethylsilyl and tertbutyldiphenylsilyl groups. A preferred group of the sub formula f is p methoxycarbonylbenzyl . Particularly preferred esterifying groups are the p nitrobenzyl and phthalidyl groups. Pharmaceutically accptable in vivo hydrolysable esters are those esters which hydrolyse in the human body to produce the parent acid or its salt. Such esters may be identified by administration to a test animal such as a rat or mouse by intravenous administration and thereafter examining the test animal s body fluids for the presence of the compound of the formula I or its salt. Suitable esters of this type include those of sub formula c as hereinbefore defined. Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable salts include those of the alkali and alkaline earth metals, of these the sodium and potassium salts are preferred. These pharmaceutically acceptable salts may be formed at the C 2 carboxy and or at the C 6 sulphonato oxyethyl moiety if present .Thus compounds of the formula I wherein R contains aOS03H group or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, may be in the form of a di salt such as the di sodium or dipotassium salt, or may be in the form of a mono salt of an in vivo hydrolysable ester, or may be in the form of a monosalt of an acid or may be in the form of a di acid. Non pharmaceutically acceptable salts of compounds of the formula I are also of use as they may be converted to pharmaceutically acceptable salts or in vivo hydrolysable esters. An example of such a salt is the lithium salt. Esters may be converted to the free acid or a salt of the formula I by methods appropriate to the particular ester, for example by acid and base catalysed hydrolysis or by enzymically catalysed hydrolysis or via hydrogenolysis, electrolysis or photolysis. The conditions selected must of course not cause substantial degradation of the rest of the molecule. Compounds of the formula I when in the form of an in vivo ester, may be prepared from the free acid or salt thereof by esterification using methods known to those skilled in the art. A convenient method is often reaction with a reactive halide, for example bromophthalide in solution in a polar organic solvent such as dimethylformamide. The compounds of the formula II may be prepared by the methods of European Patent Application PublicationNos. 0001627 and 0001628 and European Patent ApplicationNo. 80302659.0. Publication No. 0024832j. In another aspect of this invention we provide a compound of the formula IV or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or in vivo hydrolysable ester thereof EMI14.1 4 5 wherein R is hydrogen or a SO Hzmoiety, and R5 is an optionally substituted triazinyl group. These compounds are a novel class of antibiotics not specifically disclosed in any of European Patent Application Publication Nos.0001627, 0001628, 0008514, 0017970 and 0017992. In a further aspect of this invention, therefore there is provided a pharmaceutical composition which comprises a compound of the formula IV or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or in vivo hydrolysable ester and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The compositions of this invention may be prepared by conventional methods of preparing antibiotic compositions and in conventional manner may. be adapted for oral, topical or parenteral administration. Aptly, the compositions of this invention are in the form of a unit dose composition adapted for oral administration. Alternatively the compositions of this invention are in the form of a unit dose composition adapted for administration by injection. Unit dose forms according to this invention will normally contain from 50 to 500mgs of a compound of this invention, for example about 62.5, 100, 125 150, 200, 250 or 300mgs. Such compositions may be administered from 1 to 6 times a day or more conveniently 2, 3 or 4 times a day so that the total daily dose fora 70kg adult is about 200 to 2000mgs, for example about 400, 600, 750, 1000 or 1500mgs. The compositions of this invention may be used to treat bacterial infection, in animals such as mammals including humans, for example infections of the respiratory tract, urinary tract or soft tissues, or mastitis in cattle. The carriers used in the compositions of this invention may include diluents, binders, disintegrants, lubricants, colours, flavouring agents or preservatives in conventional manner. Thus suitable agents include lactose, starch, sucrose, calcium phosphate, sorbitol, polyvinylpyrrolidone, acacia, gelatin, tragacanth, potato starch or polyvinylpolypyrrolidone, magnesium stearate or sodium lauryl sulphate. Orally administrable forms of the compositions of this invention are most suitably in the form of unitdose units such as tablets or capsules. The following Examples illustrate the invention. Example 1 p Nitrobenzyl 5R,6S 3 4 chloro 6 methyl pyrimidin2 yl thio 6 r S l hydroxyethvl 7 oxo 1 azabicyclo 3.2.0 hept 2 ene 2 carboxylateEMI17.1 p Nitrobenzyl 5R,6S 3 E 2 acetamidoethenyl thio 6 S 1 hydroxyethyl 7 oxo l azabicyclo 3. 2.0 hept 2 ene 2 carboxylate el 500 mg 1.119 mm was dissolved in 1,4 dioxan 10 ml containing water 30 drops .A solution of N bromoacetamide 155 mg, 1.119 mm in 1,4dioxan 5 ml was then added and the solution stirred at room temperature for 4.5 minutes. Chloroform 50 ml was added and the organic phase was washed with pH 7.0, 0.05M phosphate buffer, saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over anhydrous magnesium sulphate.Filtration and removal of the solvent at reduced pressure yielded the crude thiol e2 as a gum, v max CHC13 1780, 1730, 1700 cm The crude thiol was dissolved in dry dimethyl formamide 10 ml and stirred at room temperature for 25 minutes with anhydrous potassium carbonate 155 mg and 2,4 dichloro 6 methylpyrimidine 182 mg 1.119 mm .Ethyl acetate was added and the organic solution washed with water, saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over anhydrous magnesium sulphate. After filtration, the solvent was removed at reduced pressure to yield the crude product, which was chromatographed over silica gel 40 gm . Elution with 2 ethanol chloroform afforded the title compound e3 as a white solid.This solid was triturated with ethyl acetate diethyl ether and collected by filtration 102 mg mx KBr 3400, 1802, 1714, 1610, 1565, 1512, 1350, 1332 cm , k max EtOH 326 nm Em 14,530 , max 265 nm Em 13,510 , 8M 67 DMF 8.27 2H, d, aromatic protons , 7.82 2H, d, aromatic protons , 7.61 1H, S, pyrimidine proton , 5.52 2H, q, CH2Ar , 5.23 1H, d, OH, exchanges with D20 , 4.42 1H, dt, 5 CM , 4.15 1H, broad res., 8 CM , 3.1 3.8 3H, t ABX, 6 CM 4 CM2 , 2.48 3H, s, pyrimidine CH3 , 1.31 3H, d, CM3CM , m s relative intensity 490.0703 2 C21HlgN406SCl required 490.0710 , 446 8 , 407 38 , 405 100 , 361 10 , 287 50 , 286 40 , 266 45 , 160 45 , 136 70 , 107 60 , 106 70 . Example 2 p Nitrobenzyl 5R.6S 3 r 4,6 dimethoxy 1 3.5 triazin 2 ylthio 6 S l hydroxyethol 7 oxo 1 azabicyclor3.2.0 hept 2 ene 2 carboxylateEMI19.1 The title compound e4 75 mg was obtained as a white crystalline solid by the reaction of the thiol e2 , derived from the ester el 250 mg with 2chloro 4,6 dimethoxytriazine, by the method described in example 1., A max EtOH 310 nm Em 12441 , 260 nm Em 13436 , v max KBr 3415 broad , 1782, 1693, 1605 cm , dH d7 DMF 8.25 2H, d, aromatic H , 7.81 2H, d, aromaticH , 5.50 2H, q, CH2Ar , 5.22 1H, d, OH , 4.0 4.5 2H, m, 5 CH 8 CM , 4.00 6H, s, 2 x OCH, 3.2 3.9 2H,ABX, 4 CH2 , 3.66 1H, t, 6 CM , 1.31 3H, d, CH3CH , m e relative intensity 503.1135 M , 20 , C21N508S requires 503.1110 , 459 5 , 418 60 ,330 20 , 286 70 , 279 30 , 173 100 , 136 45 , 106 55 . Example 3 p Nitrobenzyl 5R 6R 3 r4.6 dimethoxy 1µ3.5 triazin 2 ylthio 6 l hydroxyethyl 7 oxo l azabicyclo C3. 2.0 hept 2 ene 2 carboxylate EMI20.1 The title compound e7 95 mg was prepared as a white crystalline solid by reaction of the thiol e6 , derived from p nitrobenzyl 5R,6R 3 E 2 acetamidoethenyl thio 6 E 5 1 hydroxyethyl 7 oxo 1 azabicyclor3.2.0 hept 2 ene 2 carboxylate e5 250 mg with 2 chloro 4,6dimethoxy triazine by the procedure described in example 1., A max EtOH 310 nm Em 12468 260 nm Em 13501 , v max max KBr 3400, 1780, 1700, 1607, 1530 broad , 1350 cm broad , dH d7 DMF 8.27 2H, d, aromatic protons , 7.82 2H, d, aromatic protons , 5.49 2H, q, CH2Ar , 5.09 1H, d, OH, exchanges with D20 , 4.0 4.6 2H, m, 5 CH 8 CH , 4.0 6H, s, 2 x OCH3 , 3.6 3.9 3H, m, 4 CH2 6 CH , 1.31 3H, d, CH3CH , m e relative intensity 503.1086 M , 4 , C21H21N508S requires 503.1110 , 459 5 , 418 50 , 368 25 , 330 25 , 286 56 , 279 30 , 173 100 . Example 4 5R,6R 3 4.6 dimethox 1,3,5 triazin 2 ylthio 6 S 1 hydFoxyethyl 7 oxo l azabicyclo 3.2.o hept 2 ene 2 car boxylic acidEMI22.1 A solution of the ester e7 40 mg in 1,4 dioxan 10 ml , water 1.5 ml , ethanol 0.4 ml and 0.05 M pH 7.0 phosphate buffer 2 ml was hydrogenated in the presence of 5 palladium on carbon 60 mg for 2 hours.The suspension was then filtered over Celite, washing well with water 25 ml . The filtrate was concentrated to approximately 20 ml and washed with ethyl acetate 3 x 25 ml . The resulting aqueous solution was estimated to contain 20 mg of the title compound e8 , based on Em 9,500 at A max 291 nm in the U.V. spectrum. max Example 5 p Nitrobenzyl SR,6R 3 CS nitropyrimid 2 yl thiol 6 S l hvdroxyethylj 7 oxo l azabicyclo 3.2.O hept2 ene 2 carboxylateEMI23.1 p Nitrobenzyl SR,6R 3 E 2 acetamidoethenyl thioj 6 s l hydroxyethyl 7 oxo l azabicyclo 3.2.o hept 2 ene 2 carboxylate e5 250 mg 0.56 mM was dissolved in 1,4 dioxan 5 ml containing water 15 drops .A solution of N bromoacetamide 78.5 mg 0.56 mM in 1,4 dioxan 3 ml was then added and the solution stirred at room temperature for 4.5 minutes. Chloroform 25 ml was added and the organic phase was washed with pH 7.0, 0.05 M phosphate buffer, saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over anhydrous magnesium sulphate.Filtration and removal of the solvent at reduced pressure yielded the crude thiol e6 as a gum. The thiol was then dissolved in chloroform 20 ml and layered with water 15 ml . 2 Chloro 5 nitropyrimidine 180 mg 1.119 mM , cetyl dimethylbenzyl ammonium chloride 50 mg and O.IN sodium hydroxide solution 5.6 ml 0.56 mM were added and the two phase system stirred vigorously at room temperature for 35 minutes. The mixture was diluted with dichloromethane 100 ml and water 100 ml and the organic layer washed with saturated sodium chloride solution, and dried over anhydrous magnesium sulphate. Filtration and removal of the solvent at reduced pressure gave the crude product, which was chromatographed over silica gel 15 gm . Elution with chloroform yielded the title compound e9 as a yellow foam.Crystallisation from ethyl acetate ether gave a bright yellow solid 75 mg , X EtOH 340 nm Em 13850 , 267 nm Em 15810 , v max max KBr 3510 broad , 1776, 1709, 1603,.1578, 1560, 1512, 1341, 1322 cm , bH CDC13 9.27 2H, s, pyrimidine protons , 8.22 2H, d, aromatic protons , 7.63 2H, d, aromatic protons , 5.38 2H, q, CH2Ar , 4.0 4.65 2H, m, 5 CM 8 CH , 3.55 3.80 3H, m, 4 CH2 6 CM , 1.79 1H, d, OH , 1.44 3H, d, CH3CH , m e relative intensity 443 2 , 401.0397 5 , C16HllN506S requires 401.0430 , 330 5 , 286 25 , 263 15 , 221 16 , 157 30 , 136 45 , 106 70 , 78 100 . Example 6 SR. 6R 3 5 aminopyrimid 2 yl thio 6 S l hydroxyethyl 7 oxo 1 azabicvclor3.2.0 hept 2 ene 2 carboxvlic acidEMI25.1 An aqueous solution containing the title compound elO was obtained by hydrogenolysis of the ester e 9 15 mg . The procedure outlined in example 4, was followed with the exceptions that the hydrogenolysis time was extended to 4 hours and 10 palLadium on carbon catalyst was used. The solution was estimated to contain 10.7 mg of product based on Em 12,000 at A max 305 nm in the u.v. max spectrum, A max H20 305 nm, 267 nm. Example 7Tetra n butvlammonium salt of p nitrobenzvl SR 6R 6 S 1 hydroxysulphonyloxyethyl 3 5 nitropyrimid 2 ylthiol j oxo l azabicyclo r3.2.01hept 2 ene 2 carboxylate Step AEMI26.1 The tetra n butylammonium salt ell 200 mg in 15 aqueous dioxan was treated with N bromoacetamide 36 mg in dioxan. After stirring at room temperature the solution was diluted with chloroform, and the organic layer was washed with pH7 buffer solution and dilute brine. Evaporation of the dried MgS04 organic layer yielded the thiol e12 as a foam 156 mg v max CHC13 1780 and 1705 cm . Step BEMI27.1 A solution of the thiol e12 and 5 nitro 2chloropyrimidine 55 mg in chloroform 5 ml was stirred vigorously with an aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide 9 mg in 2.25 ml . After 40 min at room temperature, chloroform 30 ml was added and the organic layer was washed with water 30 ml add dried MgSO4 . The solution was evaporated in vacuo and the residue was chromatographed on silica gel using a gradient elution from chloroform to 20 ethanol in chloroform.Fractionscontaining the product were collected and evaporated in vacuo to afford the title compound el3 as a gum 34 mg max EtOH 336 and 267 nm 9 max CHCl3 1780 and 1725 cm 6 CDC13 0.99 12H, t, J Hz, 4 x CH3CH2CH2 , 1.43 8H, m, 4 x CH2CH2CH3 , 1.63 llH, m, 4 x CM2CH2CH3 and CM CM , 3.25 8H, m, 4 x NCH2CH2 , 3.52 1H, dd, J 10.5 and 19.5 Hz, 4 CHa , 3.83 1H, dd, J 5.5 and 11 Hz, 6 CH , 4.07 1H, dd, J 19.5 and 9.5 Hz, 4 CHO , 4.51 1H, dt, J, 5.5 5.5 and 9.5 Hz, 5 CH , 4.85 1H, m, CHCH3 , 5.28 and 5.50 each 1H, d, J 14 Hz, CH2C6H4N02 n, 7.65 and 8.22 each 2H, d, J 9 Hz, C6H4N02 and 9.31 2H, s, 2 x pyrimidyl CH . Example 8 Sodium 5R 6R 3 5 aminopvrimidvl 2 thio 6 S lhydroxysulphonyloxyethyl 7 oxo l azabicvclo r3.2.0 hept 2 ene carboxylateEMI28.1 A mixture of the mono ester e13 180 mg , 10 Pd on C 180 mg , dioxan 15 ml water 5 ml and 0.05 M pH7 phosphate buffer solution 5 ml was shaken under hydrogen for 3.5 h. To the mixture was added a solution of sodium tetrafluoroborate 24 mg in water 1 ml , before filtering over Celite washing well with water 40 ml . The solution was concentrated in v.acuo to a volume of Ca 35 ml and was then washed with ethyl acetate 3 x SQ ml . The aqueous layer was further concentrated to small volume and then chromatographed on a column of Biogel P2 3.5 x 25 cm eluting with water.Fractions containing chromophores at A max H20 304 and 268 nm in the u.v. spectrum were combined to afford an aqueous solution of the title compound e14 . A portion of the solution was freezedried to afford the product as a solid. Example 9 p Nitrobenzyl 5R,6R 3 5 nitrothiazol 2 yl thio 6 S l hydroxyethyl l 7 oxo l azabicyclor3.2. Olhept a ene 2 carboxvlateEMI29.1 Reaction of the thiol e6 derived from the ester e5 200 mg with 2 bromo 5 nitrothiazole, following the procedure outlined in Example 1, afforded the title compound e9 as a yellow crystalline solid 35 mg , hmax EtOH 366 nm om 8718 , 293 nm m 12,839 , V nm m 266 nm m 13948 , V max CH2C12 3590, 1779, 1700, 1602, 1522, 1330 cm , H CDCl3 8.50 1H, 5, triazole CM , 8.26 2H, d, aromatic protons , 7.67 2H, d, aromatic protons , 5.42 2H, q, CH2Ar , 4.41 111, dq, 5 CH , 4.23 1H, m, 8 CH , 3.66 1H, dd, J56 5.9Hz, J68 8.3Hz, 6 CM , 3.22 3.61 2M, ABX, 4 CH2, J4a5 8.9Hz, 4b5 10.OHz,J4a4b 18.2Hz , 1.43 3H, d, CH3CH m e relative intensity 330 24 , 286 37 , 259 8 , 194 15 , 162 100 , 152 32 , 136 65 , 106 90 , 78 85 , no M . Example 10 p Nitrobenzyl 5R,6R 3 5R,6R 3 5 nitropyrid 2 yl thio 6 r, s, 1 hvdroxvetholl 7 oxo 1 aza bicvclo r 3.2.01 hept 2 ene 2 carboxylateEMI30.1 Reaction of the thiol e6 derived from the ester e5 250 mg with 2 chloro 5 nitropyridine, following the procedure outlined in Example 1, gave the title compound ell as a yellow crystalline solid 72 mg , Xmax EtOH 350 nm Em 14389 , 265 nm em 14717 , may KBr 3540, 1 1781, 1722, 1608, 1589, 1568, 1517, 1349, 1321 cm H CDc13 9.29 1H, d, pyridine 6 CH , 8.35 1H, dd, pyridine 4 CH , 8.21 2H, d, aromatic protons , 7.63 2H, d, aromatic protons , 7.51 1H, d, pyridine 3 CH , 5.38 2H, q, CH2Ar , 4.43 1H, dq, J56 6Hz, 5 CH , 4.0 4.4 1H, m, 8 CHy, 3.63 1H, dd, J68 8.5Hz, 6 CH , 3.48 2H, d, J45 10Hz, 4 CH2 , 1.79 1H, d, OH , 1.40 3H, d, CH3CH , m e relative intensity 401 1 , 330 10 , 286 40 , 156 100 , no M . Example 11Sodium salt of p nitrobenzyl 5R, 6R 6 t S l hydroxy sulphonvloxsethol1 3 5 nitrothiazol 2 vlthio 7 oXo l azabicyclo 3,2,01hept 2 ene 2 carboxvlate Step AEMI31.1 The cetylbenzyldimethylammonium salt el5 1.47 was dissolved in 15 aqueous dioxan 23 ml and to the solution was added a solution of N bromoacetamide 229 mg in dioxan 1 ml . After strring at room temperature for 4.5 min.the solution was diluted with chloroform 70 ml and the organic layer was washed with pH 7 buffer solution 50 ml and dilute brine 30 ml . Evaporation of the dried MgS04 organic layer afford a foam which contained the thiol e16 . Step BEMI32.1 The product from step A was dissolved in DMF 20 ml and the solution was stirred with 5 nitro 2 bromothiazole 570 mg and dry potassium carbonate 229 mg for 25 min.Ethyl acetate 70 ml was added and the solution was washed with dilute brine 3 x 70 ml . Evaporation of the dried MgS04 solution gave a foam which was chromatographed on a column of silica gel using a gradient elution of chloroform to 20 ethanol chloroform. The quaternary ammonium salt e17 was obtained as a yellow foam 400 mg max EtOH 365, 288sh and 267 nm Vmax CHC13 1780 1720sh and l7OOcm 1. Step CEMI32.2 The product from step B was dissolved in acetone 4 ml and to this solution was added a solution of sodium iodide 80 mg in acetone 1 ml . Precipititation of the salt e18 could not be induced, so the solvent was evaporated in vacuo, and the residue was chromatographed on a column of silica gel eluting with a gradient of chloroform to 25 ethanol chloroform. Early fractions contained recovered quaternary ammonium salt e17 which could be recycled, whilst later fractions contained only the desired sodium salt e18 . Evaporation of the solvents and trituration with ehter afforded the title compound e18 as a yellow solid 85 mg Xmax EtOH 364 9,294 ca. 292 12,822 and 266 nm 13,847 Vmax KBr 1780, 1720 and 1705 cm 6 DMF d7 1.45 3H, d, J 6.5 Hz, MeCH , 3.19 1H, dd, J 10.5 and 19.5 Hz, 4 CHa , 3.83 1H, dd, J 19.5 and 9Hz, 4 CHb , 3.85 1H, dd, J 5.5 and 10.5 Hz, 6 CH , 4.45 111, m, 5 CH , 4.62 1H, m, CHMe , 5.46 and 5.62 each 1H, d, J 13.5Hz, CM2Ar , 7.83 and 8.29 each 2H, d, J 9Hz, C6H4NO2 , and 8.84 1H, s, thiazole CH .