# Electric motor.

## Abstract
A simple and economically produced electric motor has a casing 11 defined by a stator assembly 12 and end caps 13 and containing a rotor assembly 14 including a rotor shaft 16 . The shaft 16 is supported in bearings defined by sleeves 19 formed by a plunging operation on the end caps 13 . The axial length of each sleeve 19 is only 0.125 to 0.500 of the diameter of the region of the shaft 16 received within the sleeve 19 . This reduced axial length is permitted because the sleeves 19 and the shaft 16 have been gas nitrocarburized and preferably subsequently oxidised before being quenched to provide a porous epsilon iron nitride or carbonitride layer in which lubricating oil is absorbed.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An electric motor including a rotor shaft 16 supported for rotation relative to a stator assembly 12 of the motor by a pair of spaced and axially aligned bearings, characterised in that each bearing is in the form of a steel sleeve like member 19 having an axial length in the range O.125D to 0.500D where D is the diameter of the region of the rotor shaft received within the bearing, said steel sleeve like members 19 and at least those regions of the rotor shaft 16 received within the members 19 having been subjected to the heat treatment operation known as nitrocarburizing to produce a. porous layer having improved wear resistance, and the pores of said layer of said members 19 and said regions of the shaft 16 being impregnated with lubricating oil. 2. An electric motor as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that said porous layer comprises epsilon iron nitride or carbonitride whose outer surface region has been oxidized. 3. An electric motor as claimed in claim 2, characterised in that said porous layer is one which has been formed by a subjecting the members 19 and regions of the shaft 16 to a gas phase nitrocarburizing heat treatment process to form a lower layer comprising nitrogen in solid solutionIn a ferritic matrix as well as the porous layer which overlies the lower layer, b exposing the members 19 and said region of the shaft 16 to an oxidizing medium, and tc quenching to retain the nitrogen in solid solution. 4. An electric motor as claimed in any preceding claim, characterised in that said shaft 16 and said members 1 are formed from low carbon, non alloy steel. 5. An electric motor as claimed in any preceding claim, characterized in that the length of said members 19 is 0.250D. 6. An electric motor as claimed in any preceding, claim, characterised in that said members 19 are integral with end caps 13 of a casing 11 of the motor. 7. An electric motor as claimed in claim 6, characterised in that said members 19 are formed as integral parts of the end caps 13 by means of a plunging operation performed on the latter. 8. An electric motor as claimed in any preceding claim, characterised in that each member 19 is provided with surrounding lubricating oil reservoir 23 . 9. An electric motor as claimed in claim 8, characterised in that each sleeve like member 19 has an end having notches or recesses therein to facilitate lubricating oil access.

## Description
This invention relates to electric motors for use in road vehicles, the motors being primarily of the type used to power windscreen wiper systems, heater fans, toy motors of the kind used in childrens toys and games, and the like.However, it is contemplated that the invention could be applied to high power motors such as starter motors.In a known low power motor for powering eg. a windscreen wiper or cooling ventilating fan on a vehicle, the rotor shaft of the motor is supported in spaced bearings carried by axially opposite end caps of the motor casing. The bearing at one end of the shaft is defined by a sintered metal sleeve secured to the one end cap of the casing, and in view of the radial loading which must be accepted by that bearing, its axial length in many cases exceeds the diameter of the rotor shaft. The use of a long bearing at one end of the shaft gives rise to alignment problems when the bearing at the other end of the shaft is assembled. For this reason it is usual to choose a self aligning spherically mounted bearing for the second bearing of the shaft.Thus not only do the bearings of the shaft take up a significant length, they are additionally expensive in that the self aligning bearing is a costly component, as, to a lesser extent, is the axially long sintered bearing.Moreover, owing to the large bearing surface arising from the use of an axially long sintered bearing a large volume of oil is required for lubrication. While the sintered bearing itself can absorb a significant quantity of oil, it is normally necessary to provide a back upreservoir in association with the bearing. Frequently such a reservoir is provided by means of a pad or sleeve of oil impregnated absorbent material in contact with the bearing. It is an object of the present invention to provide a low power motor in a simple, economic, and convenient form wherein the aforementioned problems are minimised.An electric motor according to the present invention includes a rotor shaft supported for rotation relative to a stator assembly of the motor by a pair of spaced and axially aligned bearings, each bearing being in the form of a steel sleeve like member having an axial length in the range 0.126D to d.500D where D is the diameter of the region of the rotor shaft received within the bearing, said steel sleeve like members and at least those regions of the rotor shaft received within the members having been subjected to the heat treatment operation known as nitrocarburizing to produce a porous layer having improved wear resistance, and the pores of said layer of said members and said regions of the shaft being impregnated with lubricating oil.Preferably, said porous layer comprises epsilon iron nitride or carbonitride whose outer surface region has been oxidized ie is oxide rich.Most advantageously, such a porous layer is one formed by subjecting the members and said regions of the rotor shaft to a gas phase nitro carburizing heat treatment process to form a lower layer comprising nitrogen in solid solution in a ferritic matrix as well as the porous layer which, overlies the lower layer, exposing the members and shaft to an oxidizing medium e.g. air, and then quenching to retain the nitrogen in solid solution.Preferably, the quenching is effected in a quenching medium containing oil, more preferably an oil water mixture, so that the porous layer becomes impregnated with oil.Conveniently, the heat treatment and subsequent oxidation and quenching is effected in the manner described in our copending British Patent Application Nos. 8131133 and 8138318 filed on 15 October and 18 December, 1981, respectively.Preferably, said shaft and said sleeve like members are formed from low carbon non alloy steel.Preferably, the length of said members is 0.250D. Preferably, said sleeve like members are integral with the end caps respectively of a casing of the motor.Desirably said sleeve like members are formed as integral parts of pressed steel end caps of the casing by means of a plunging operation performed on the end caps.One example of the invention is illustrated in the accompanying drawings, wherein Figure 1 is a diagrammatic cross sectional representation of a low power motor,Figure 2 is a cross sectional view to an enlarged scale of one of the bearings of the motor of Figure ,andFigure 3 is a view in the direction of arrow A in Figure 2.Referring to the drawings, the motor includes a casing ii defined by a stator assembly 12 and end caps 13. The stator assembly 12 comprises a cylindrical mild steel yoke and a plurality of permanent magnets equi angularly spaced around the yoke. Rotatable within the stator assembly 12 is a rotor assembly 14 including a wound rotor 15 carried by a low carbon nonalloy steel rotor shaft 16. Intermediate the rotor 15 and one of the end caps 13 the shaft 16 carries a commutator 17 which coacts with a brush assembly 18 carried by the stator assembly 12. The commutator 17 and the brush assembly 18 provide the electrical connections between an external direct current supply and the wound rotor 15 so that the rotor assembly 14 rotates when electric current is passed through the wound rotor 15.The end caps 13 of the casing 11 are identical, and each is formed as a pressing from a sheet of low carbon nonalloy steel. The end caps 13 are each of generally disc like form having a central plunged aperture. The plunging of the central aperture provides a centrally disposed sleeve 19 projecting from one face of each of the end caps 13. The sleeves 19 are of circular cross section, and have an internal diameter so related to the external diameter of the shaft 16 that a rotary bearing is provided where the shaft 16 passes through the sleeves 19. The assembly of the caps 13 to the stator assembly 12 is such as to ensure that the sleeves 19 are coaxial.At least the sleeves 19 and the corresponding regions of the shaft 16 are subjected to a heat treatment process prior to assembly of the motor. In practice the whole of the end caps 13 and the whole of the shaft 16 will be subjected to the heat treatment process, which process provides a layer of epsilon iron nitride or carbonitride on the treated low carbon non alloy steel having pores therein, and also having improved wear resistance properties. It is believed that at the present time the only heat treatment process which will produce such surface characteristics is that process known as nitrocarburizing.Nitrocarburizing is a known process, and in this respect attention is drawn to a paper entitled Heat Treatment 79 given at Birmingham England 22 24 May 1979 before THEMETAL SOCIETY AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR METALS .This paper in the names of C.Dawes, D.F.Tranter and C. .Smith explains the history and effects of the process.In a preferred embodiment the end caps 13 and the shaft 26 are heat treated in a furnace for 2 hours at 5700C in an atmosphere containing 50 ammonia and 50 endothermic gas carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, nitrogen and hydrogen .After heat treatment, the end caps 13 and the shaft 16 are removed from the furnace and exposed to air for a short time at least one second before being quenched from a temperature such that a lower layer containing nitrogen in solid solution in a ferritic matrix Is retained. It will be appreciated in this respect that the heat treatment process described above produces not only the epsilon iron nitride or carbonitride layer but also a lower layer in which nitrogen is in solid solution in a ferritic matrix.The nitrogen comes out of solid solution if cooling is effected too slowly with the result that the tensile strength and fatigue resistance properties are adversely affected. The exposure to air produces an oxide rich surface region in the epsilon iron nitride or carbonitride layer. Quenching in this embodiment is effected in an oilin water emulsion. An example of a suitable emulsion is that produced by mixing 1 volume part of EVCOQUENCH GW a quenching oil with about 6 volume parts of water. The oil enters the pores of the porous nitrocarburized layer. If the quenching oil does not provide sufficient lubricating properties for the required end use it is within the scope of the present invention to quench into a conventional lubricating oil, or to quench into water dry the components and then immerse them in the lubricating oil, or to quench into the quenching oil medium, remove the quenching oil by vapour degreasing and then immerse in the lubricating oil. The sleeves 19 thus constitute lubricated bearings supporting the shaft 16. The heat treatment of the sleeves 19 provides a bearing of good load carrying capacity which permits the axial length f the sleeves 19 to be considerably shorter than that required of the previously used sintered or similar sleeve like bearings. Thus, the axial length of each of the sleeves 19 can lie within the range of 1 8 to 1 2 of the diameter of the shaft 16.The preferred axial length for the bearings defined by the sleeves 19 is 1 4 of the diameter of the shaft 16.As is clear from Figure 1 the end caps 13 are generally domed, but have flattened central regions from which the sleeves 19 project. Associated with each end cap 13 is a domed plastic cover 21 which has resilient barbed legs 22 extending through apertures in the end cap 13 to retain the cover in position on the exterior of the end cap 13. The covers 21 are apertured to permit the shaft 16 to extend therethrough, and each cover 21 defines an enclosure with its respective end cap 13 within which is received absorbent material 23 impregnated with lubricating oil and providing a lubricating oil reservoir surrounding the respective sleeve. In order to assist the lubricating oil from the material 23 reaching the bearing surface of each sleeve 19 and the shaft 16 the sleeves 19 are provided with apertures. The sleeves 19 may be undrilled but, can be provided with radial drillings.The free ends of the sleeves may be plain ie unrecessed, but it is preferred, for the purpose of facilitating lubrication, for the free ends of the sleeves 19 to have undulations or serrations eg castellations as shown in Figs. 2 and 3 instead of or in addition to providing the radial drillings therein.The axially extending notches 24 of the castellated end of each sleeve 19 provide access for a seepage of oil from the material 23 into the bearing. It will of course be recognised that the necessary accuracy of alignment of the bearing sleeves 19 and the shaft 16 is less critical than with the previously utilised bearings of much greater axial length.A spacer collar 26 and a thrust washer 28 through which the shaft 16 extends serve to space the commutator 17 and therefore the remainder or the rotor assembly, in relation to the right hand in Figure 1 end cap 13. The collar 26, thrust washer 28 and the end cap 13 thus define a thrust bearing. A similar spacer collar 25 encircles the shaft 16 between the rotor 15 and loaded in a direction to engage the collar 26 with the end bracket 13 by means of a resilient member 27 interposed between the collar 25 and the adjacent end cap 13. The member 27 can be a corrugated metal sleeve, or alternatively can be a similarly corrugated synthetic resin sleeve. While it is preferable for the sleeves 19 to be integral parts of the end caps 13 it is to be recognised that the sleeves 19 could be formed separately from the end caps 13, and could then be secured thereto in any convenient manner.Such an arrangement would have the advantage that only the sleeves 19 would require the heat treatment.