# Process and intermediates for production of 1,1 dioxopenicillanoyloxymethyl 6 2 amino 2 phenylacetamido penicillanates.

## Abstract
Compounds of the formula

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A compound of the formulaEMI56.1 wherein R1is H or OH Y and Z are each C1, Br or I, or Y is H and Z isC1, Br or I and Q is N3 or NHCO2CH2C6H4R4 where R4 is H, Cl, Br,NO2, CH3 or OCH3. 2. A compound according to claim 1 wherein Y and Z are each C1 or Br, or Y is H and Z is C1 or Br and Q is N3 or NHCO2CH2C6H5. 3. A compound according to claim 2 wherein Y and Z are each Br or Y is H and Z is Br and Q is N3. 4. A compound of the formulaEMI56.2 wherein n is zero, 1 or 2 X is Cl, Br, I or OSOzR2 where R2 is alkyl having from one to six carbon atoms or C6H4R where R is Cl, Br, I, NO2 or alkyl or alkoxy having from one to three carbon atoms and Y and Z are each C1, Br or I, or Y is H and Z is C1, Br or I. 5. A compound according to claim 4 wherein Y and Z are each C1 or Br or Y is H and Z is C1 or Br X is C1, Br or I and n is zero or 2. 6. A compound according to claim 5 wherein Y and Z are each Br and X is C1 or I. 7. A compound according to claim 6 wherein n is 2. 8. A process for preparing a compound of the formulaEMI57.1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof wherein R1 is H or OH, characterized in that a compound of the formulaEMI58.1 wherein R1 is as defined above, Q is N3 or NHCO2CH2C6H4R4 where R4is H, C1, Br, NO2, CH3 or OCH3 Y and Z are each C1, Br or I, or Y is H and Z is C1, Br or I is contacted with hydrogen in the presence of a noble metal catalyst and a reaction inert solvent. 9. A process according to claim 8 wherein Q isN3 or NHC02CH2C6H5, Y and Z are each C1 or Br or Y isH and Z is C1 or Br. 10. A process according to claim 9 wherein Q isN3, Y and Z are each Br. CLAIMS 1. A process for preparing a compound of the formulaEMI59.1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof wherein R1 is H or OH, characterized in that a compound of the formulaEMI59.2 wherein R1 is as defined above, Q is N3 or NHCO2CH2C6H4R4 where R4 is H, C1, Br, N02, CH3 or OCH3 Y and Z are each C1, Br or I, or Y is H and Z is C1, Br or I is contacted with hydrogen in the presence of a noble metal catalyst and a reaction inert solvent. 2. A process for preparing a compound of the formulaEMI60.1 wherein R1 is H or OH Y and Z are each C1, Br or I, or Y is H and Z isCl, Br or I and Q is N3 or NHC02CH2C6H4R where R4 is H, Cl, Br,NO2, CH3 or OCH3 characterized in that a compound of the formulaEMI60.2 where X is C1, Br, I or OSO2Rê where Rê is alkylhaving from one to six carbon atoms or C6H4R and R is C1, Br, I, N02 or alkyl or alkoxy having from one to three carbon atoms i is contacted with an equimolar amount of a compound of the formulaEMI61.1 where M is an alkali metal, alkaline earth, tertiary amine or tetraalkylammonium cation in a polar organic solvent at a temperature of fromO to 800 C. 3. A process according to claims 1 or 2 whereinQ is N3 or NHC02CH2C6H5. 4. A process according to claim 3 wherein Q isN3, Y and Z are each C1 or Br, or Y is H and Z is C1 or Br. 5. A process according to claim 4 wherein Y and Z are each Br or Y is H and Z is Br. 6. A process accqrding to claim 5 wherein Y and Z are each Br and R1 is H. 7. A process.according to claim 2 wherein X isC1, Br, I, CH3S020 or 4 CH3C6H4S020 and M is a sodium, potassium or tetrabutylammonium cation. 8. The process according to claim 7 wherein X isI and M is tetrabutylammonium. 9. A process for preparing a compound of the formulaEMI61.2 wherein X, Y and Z are as defined in claim 2, characterized in that a compound of the formulaEMI62.1 wherein Y and Z are as defined above, n is zero, 1 or 2 and M is a cation is reacted with an equimolar amount of a compound of the formula XêCH2X wherein X is as defined above and Xê is X or a better leaving group than X, in the presence of solvent and at a temperature of from 10 to 800 C. to provide a compound of the formulaEMI62.2 and when n is O or 1, oxidation of said compound IV . 10. A process according to claim 9 wherein Y and Z are each C1 or Br or Y is H and Z is C1 or Br X is C1,Br or I M is Na, K or C4H9 4N and said oxidation is carried out in the presence of a reaction inert solvent, with an oxidizing agent selected from sodium permanganate, potassium permanganate, hydrogen peroxide in the presence of a transition metal catalyst, peracetic acid or m chloroperbenzoic acid at a temperature of from 30 to 600 C.

## Description
PROCESS AND INTERMEDIATES FOR PRODUCTION OF l,l DIOXOPENICILLANOYLOXYMETHYL 6 2 AMINO 2 PHEN LACETAMIDO PENICILLANATES Background of the InventionField of the Invention The invention relates to novel compounds of formula I , defined herein, a process for their use in production of l,l dioxopenicillanoyloxymethyl 6 2 amino 2 phenylacetamido penicillanate antibiotics of formula it , certain halomethyl and related esters of 6 halo or 6,6 dihalo penicillanic acid and the corresponding sulfoxides and sulfones useful in preparing compounds of formula I .Description of the Prior Art U.S. 4,234,579, issued November 18, 1980, discloses penicillanic acid l,l dioxide and esters thereof which are readily hydrolyzabie in vivo, their use as antibacterial agents and for enhancing the effectiveness of beta lactam antibiotics against many beta lactamase producing bacteria. U.S. 4,244,951, issued January 13, 1981, discloses novel antibacterial agents of formula VIII in which penicillanic acid l,l dioxide is linked to known penicillin antibiotics via a methylenedioxo group, i.e.,EMI1.1 where Rb is the acyl group of a natural or semi synthetic penicillin. Especially preferred values for Rb include 2 amino 2 phenylacetyl and 2 amino 2 E hydroxyphenyl acetyl. The compounds VIII are prepared, for example, by reacting a carboxylate salt of the penicillin such as the sodium, potassium or tertiary amine salt with a halomethyl ester or related ester ofpenicillanic acid l,l dioxide. The intermediate halomethyl esters are prepared by esterification of penicillanic acid l,l dioxide. Harrison et al., Journal of the Chemical Society London , Perkin I, 1772 1976 disclose a the oxidation of 6,6 dibromopenicillanic acid with mchloroperbenzoic acid, to give a mixture of the corresponding alpha and beta sulfoxides b oxidation of methyl 6,6 dibromopenicillanate with m chlorper benzoin acid to give a methyl 6,6 dibromopenicillanate l,l dioxide c oxidation of methyl 6 alpha chloropenicillanate with m chlorperbenzoic acid, to give a mixture of the corresponding alpha and beta sulfoxides and d oxidation of methyl 6 bromopenicillanate with m chloroperbenzoic acid, to give a mixture of the corresponding alpha and beta sulfoxides. Clayton, Journal of the Chemical Society London C , 2123 1969 , discloses a the preparation of 6,6 dibromo and 6,6 diiodopenicillanic acid b oxidation of 6,6 dibromopenicillanic acid with sodium periodate, to give a mixture of the corresponding sulfoxides c hydrogenolysis of methyl 6,6 dibromopenicillanate to give methyl 6 alpha bromopenicillanate d hydrogenolysis of 6,6 dibromopenicillanic acid, and its methyl ester, to give penicillanic acid and its methyl ester, respectively and e hydrogenolysis of a mixture of methyl 6,6 diodopenicillanate and methyl 6 alpha iodopenicillanate to give pure methyl 6 alpha iodopenicillanate. Belgian Patent 882,028, granted September 9, 1980, discloses a process for preparing penicillanic acid l,l dioxide and its readily hydrolyzable in vivo esters by oxidation of 6 halopenicillanate or a 6,6dihalopenicillanate to the corresponding l,l dioxide, then dehalogenation to provide the desired penicillanate l,l dioxide. U.S. 3,293,242 discloses 6 2 azido 2 phenylacetamido penicillanic acid and salts thereof. Japan Kokai 78 37,691 Chem. Abstr., 89, 109466v 1978 discloses 6 2 azido 2 ç hydroxyphenyl acetamido penicillanic acid and its reduction with hydrogen and palladium on carbon to give 6 2 amino 2 hydroxy phenyl acetamido penicillanic acid. Summary of the Invention The present invention relates to compounds of the formulaEMI3.1 wherein R1 is H or OH Y and Z are each C1, Br or I, or Y is H and Z is C1, Br or I and Q is N3 or NHCO2CH2C6H4R4 where R4 is H, C1, Br, NO2, CH3 or SOCH, useful as intermediates for the production of valuable antibiotics of the formula EMI4.1 In said compounds of formula I , the particularly preferred value for Q is N3. Particularly preferred values for Y and Z are Y is H and Z is Br or C1, orY and Z are each Cl or Br especially Y is H, Z is Br or Y and Z are each Br. Most particularly preferred such compounds are those wherein Q is N3, R1 is H orOH, Y and Z are each Br. The invention also provides a novel process for production of the antibiotics of formula II which is characterized by contacting a compound of formula I with hydrogen in the presence of a noble metal catalyst and a reaction inert solvent. The invention process has advantages over the prior art in that simultaneously the halogen atoms Y and Z are subjected to hydrogenolysis and the group Q is reduced when Q is N3 or subjected to hydrogenolysis when Q is NHCO2CH2C6H4R4 to produce the antibiotics of formula II in a single step. A particularly preferred noble metal catalyst for this process is palladium. The invention further provides novel intermediates which are useful in preparation of compounds of formula I . These intermediates are of the formulaEMI5.1 where Y and Z are as defined above for compound I , n is zero, 1 or 2 and X is C1, Br, I or OSO2R 2 where R2 is alkyl having from one to six carbon atoms or C H R3 and R3 is Cl, Br, I, NO2 or alkyl or alkoxy, where each of the latter two groups have from one to three carbon atoms. Particularly preferred intermediates of formula IV are those where Y is H and Z is C1 or Br, or Y and Z are each C1 or Br X is C1, Br or I and n is 0 or 2. More particularly preferred compounds of formula IV are those where n is 0, Y is H, Z is Br, or Y and Z are each Br, and X is C1 or I n is 2, Y is H, Z is Br, or Y and Z are each Br, and X is I. Most particularly preferred compounds IV are those where n is O, Y and Z are each Br and X is Cl or I n is 2, Y and Z are each Br and X is I. The iodomethyl sulfones of formula IV where n is 2 and X is I are especially valuable because of their especially facile coupling with salts of formula VI to provide the compounds formula I . Detailed Description of the Invention This invention relates to derivatives of penicillanic acid which is represented by the following structural formula EMI6.1 In derivatives of penicillanic acid, broken line attachment of a substituent to the bicyclic nucleus indicates that the subsitutent is below the plane of the nucleus. Such a substituent is said to be in the alpha configuration. Conversely, broad line attachmentEMI6.2 of a substitutent to the bicyclic nucleus indicates that the substituent is above the plane of the nucleus. This latter configuration is referred to as the beta configuration. As used herein a solid line attachment of a substituent to the bicyclic nucleus indicates that the substituent can be in either the alpha configuration or the beta configuration. Compounds of the invention of formulae I and II are named herein as derivatives of penicillanoyloxymethyl penicillanate. Thus, the compound of formula I where R1 is hydrogen and Y and Z are eachBr and Q is N3 is designated.as l,l dioxo 6,6 dibromo penicillanoyloxymethyl 6 2 azido 2 phenylacetamido penicillanate. Additionally, when reference is made herein to a compound which has a 2 Q 2 Rl substituted phenyl acetamido or 2 amino 2 R1 substituted phenyl acetamido group at the 6 position of.a penicillanic acid derivative, it is understood that this refers to a compound in which said 2 Q 2 Rl substituted phenyl acetamido or 2 amino 2 R1 substituted phenyl acetamido has the D configuration. In the invention compounds wherein Y is H and Z is Cl, Br or I the Z substituent can be in the alpha configuration,.the beta configuration or can be a mixture of the two i.somers. All such compounds are included in the scope of the invention. Methods for. preparing penicillanoyloxymethyl penicillanates of formula II by esterification as illustrated below are disclosed in U.S. 4,244,951 issued January 13, 1981 and Netherlands PatentApplication No. 8,000,775 published August 15, 1980, corresponding to British Patent Application No.2,044,255 EMI7.1 In the above formulae one of A and B is CH2X1 and the other is M1, where X1 is a good leaving the other is , is group, e.g., Cl, Br, I, CH3SO2O or toluenesulfonyloxy and te is a carboxylate salt forming cation, e.g., sodium, potassium, triethylammonium or tetrabutylammonium ion and Q1 is a conventional amino protecting group, e.g., benzyloxycarbonyl. The initial product obtained is the amino protected derivative of II which affords the desired antibiotic compound upon removal of protecting group Q by standard methods known in the art. The above mentioned Netherlands and correspondingBritish patent applications also disclose a process for preparing the compound of formula II , where is is hydrogen, by coupling chloromethyl 6 2 azido 2 phenylacetamido penicillanate and a salt of penicillanic acid l,l dioxide, and hydrogenation of the intermediate 1 ,l dioxopenicillanoyloxymethyl 6 2 azido 2 phenylacetamido penicillanate. In the prior art methods, the starting 1,1dioxopenicillanic acid of formula IX , A H is obtained e.g. by dehalogenation of the corresponding 6 halo or 6,6 dihalopenicillanic acid sulfone. The ester IX , where A is CH2X1, is obtained from the acid by certain esterification techniques Flow Chart A outlines a preferred method for production of the invention compounds of formula I and their conversion to antibiotic compounds of formula II by simultaneous hydrogenolysis of halogen groups Y and Z and reduction of the azido or NHCO2CH2C6H 4 4R group to NH2 by reaction of compound I with hydrogen in the presence of a catalyst. The starting halopenicillanic acids of formula III where M is hydrogen are prepared e.g., from 6 aminopenicillanic acid or the corresponding sulfoxide or sulfone by reaction with nitrous acid and treatment of the resulting 6 diazo compound with a halogen or hydrohalide of formula Y Z, where Y and Z are as defined above, by methods known in the art. See, e.g., Clayton et al., Journal of Chemical Society London C , 2123 1969 . Flow Chart AEMI9.1 For the esterification step to obtain the compound of formula IV , the carboxylic acid III is converted to a salt wherein M is a cation. A variety of cations can be used to form the carboxylate salt in the compound of formula III , but salts which are commonly employed include alkali metal salts, such as sodium and potassium alkaline earth metal salts, such as calcium and barium salts tertiary amine salts, such as trimethylamine, triethylamine, tributylamine, N methylmorpholine and N methylpyrrolidine and tetraalkyl ammonium salts such as tetramethylammonium, tetraethylammonium, dimethyl diisopropylammonium, tetrabutylammonium and diethyl di n hexylammonium salts. Particularly preferred such salts are the sodium, potassium and tetrabutylammonium salts. The salt of formula III is reacted with a compound of the formula XêCH2X, wherein X is as defined above and X2 is X or a better leaving group than X, e.g., when X is C1, X2 may be Cl, Br, I, OSO2Cl, 0502CH3 or CH23 C6H4 S020. Particularly preferred values for X are I and OSO2Cl. The reaction between X2CH2X and the salt of formula III is usually carried out by contacting approximately equimolar amounts of the reactants in a polar, organic solvent, at a temperature in the range of from about 10 to 800C. and preferably from about 0 to 600C. The reaction is ordinarily complete in from a few hours to a few days. The desired ester of formula IV is isolated by methods well known in the art. For example, by evaporation of solvent and purification of the crude product, if desired, e.g., by column chromatography. Examples of suitable polar solvents which can be employed in this reaction are dimethylformamide, Nmethylpyrrolidone, dimethyl sulfoxide, ethyl acetate, dichloromethane, acetone and hexamethylphosphoric triamide alternately, an excess of the reagent X2CH2X e.g., ICH2C1, can serve as solvent. In the next step of this method, the compounds of formula IV where n is zero or one are oxidized to the corresponding sulfone of formula V . While any of the oxidizing agents known in the art for oxidation of sulfides to sulfones may be employed in this step, preferred oxidizing agents are sodium permanganate, potassium permanganate, calcium permanganate, hydrogen peroxide in the presence of certain transiticn metal catalysts, peractic acid or mchloroperbenzoic acid. The oxidation is carried out in the presence of a reaction inert solvent, preferably at a temperature of from about 30 to 600C. Particularly preferred oxidizing agents are hydrogen peroxide in the presence of certain transition metal catalysts,. potassium permanganate and mchloroperbenzoic acid. Especially preferred are potassium permanganate and m chloroperbenzoic acid. When a compound of the formula IV , as defined above, is oxidized to the corresponding compound of the formula V , using a metal permanganate, the reaction is usually carried out by treating the compound of the .formula IV with from about two to about ten molar equivalents, and preferably from about two to about four molar equivalents, of the permanagnate in an appropriate, reaction inert solvent system. When said compound of formula IV is a sulfoxide, wherein n is 1 is employed in this step, approximately hdlf of the above amount of oxidant is ordinarily employed. An appropriate, reaction inert solvent system is one that does not adversely interact with either the starting materials or the product, and water is commonly used. If desired, a co solvent which is miscible with water but will not interact with the permanganate such as e.g., tetrahydrofuran or acetone can be added. The reaction can be carried out at a temperature in the range from about 30 to about 600C., and it is preferably carried out at about 10 to about 300C. At about room temperature the reaction is normally substantially complete within a short period, e.g. within two hours. Although the reaction can be carried out under neutral, basic or acid conditions, it is preferable to operate at a pH in the range from about 4 to about 9.Rowever, it is essential to choose conditions which avoid decomposition of the.beta lactam ring system of the compounds of formulae IV or V . The product is recovered by conventional technqiues. Any excess permanganate is usually decomposed using sodium bisulfite, and then if the product is out of solvent, it is recovered by filtration. It is separated from manganese dioxide by extracting it into an organic solvent and removing the solvent by evaporation. Alternatively, if the product is not out of solution at the end of the reaction, it is isolated by the usual procedure of solvent extraction. When a compound of the formula IV wherein n is zero is oxidized to the corresponding compound of the formula V using a peroxycarboxylic acid,.e.g. mchloroperbenzoic acid, the reaction is usually carried out by treating the compound of the formula V with from about 2 to about 6 molar equivalents, and preferably about 2.2 molar equivalents of the oxidant in a reaction inert organic solvent. As above, only half the amount of oxidant is ordinarily required when sulfoxides of formula IV are employed.Preferred reaction inert solvents are chlorinated hydrocarbons, such as dichloromethane, chloroform and 1,2 dichloroethane ethers, such as diethyl ether, tetrahydrofuran and 1,2 dimethoxyethane and ethyl acetate. The reaction is normally carried out at a temperature of from about 30 to about 500C., and preferably from about l5.to about 30 C. At about 0 C., reaction times of about 4 to about 16 hours are commonly used. The product of formula V is isolated by standard methods, e.g., decomposition of excess oxidant by addition of sodium bisulfite, partitioning the reaction mixture between water and water immiscible solvent and evaporation of solvent from the washed extract. The crude product can be purified, e.g., by chromatography on silica gel. When hydrogen peroxide in the presence of certain transition metal catalysts is employed to oxidize a sulfide or sulfoxide such as the compounds of formula IV wherein n is zero or 1 to the corresponding sulfone of formula V , preferred transition metal catalysts are inorganic compounds of tungsten, molybdenum or zirconium in which the metals are in their highest oxidation state. Examples of such compounds are tungstic acid, sodium tungstate, zirconium tetrachloride, molybdic acid and potassium molybdate. The transition metal catalysts can be carried out over a pH range of about 3 to 9, however a pH of from about 4 to 7 is preferred. When the compound to be oxidized is a sulfide, such as that of formula IV where n is zero, at least two moles of hydrogen peroxide per mole of said sulfide is required to provide the corresponding sulfone.However, for oxidizing sulfoxides to sulfones or sulfides to sulfoxides, only one mole of hydrogen peroxide is required to afford the desired product. Preferred reaction inert solvents for the oxidation with hydrogen peroxide transition metal catalyst include the lower alkanols such as methanol, ethanol and isopropanol ethylene glycol, ethyl acetate, 1,2 dimethoxyethane, water and mixtures thereof. While the oxidation can be carried out over a wide range of temperature, a preferred temperature is in the range from about 20 to 600C., at which temperature the oxidation is ordinarily complete in from about two hours to two days, e.g., overnight. The desired product is then isolated and can be purified, if desired, by methods described above and in the Examples. The reaction of the intermediates V with the 6 2 Q substituted 2 phenylacetamido penicillanate salts of formula VI where M is as previously defined for compound III , to provide the, invention compounds of formula I is usually carried out by contacting the reactants in a polar, organic solvent at a temperature in the range from about 0 C. to about 800C. and preferably from 250 to 500C. The compounds of formula V and VI are usually contacted in substantially equimolar proportions, but an excess of either reagent, for example up to a ten .fold excess, can be used. A wide variety of solvents can be used, but it is usually advantageous to use a relatively polar solvent, since this has the effect of speeding up the reaction.Typical solvents which can be used include N,N dimethylformamide, N,Ndimethylacetamide, N methylpyrrolidone, dimethylsulfoxide, ethyl acetate, dichloromethane, acetone and hexamethylphosphoric triamide. The reaction time varies according to a number of factors, but at about 25 C. reaction times of several hours, e.g. 12 to 24 hours, are commonly used. The compound of formula I is isolated in conventional fashion. When a water miscible solvent is used, it is usually sufficient simply to dilute the reaction medium with an excess of water. The product is then extracted into a water immiscible solvent such as ethyl acetate, and then the product is recovered by solvent evaporation. When a water immiscible solvent is used, it is usually sufficient to wash the solvent with water, and then recover the product by solvent evaporation. The compound of formula I can be purified by well known methods, such as recrystallization or chromatography, but due regard must.be given to the lability of the betalactam ring system. A particularly preferred method for production of compounds of formula I from a compound of formula III is outlined below. EMI16.1 In the initial step of the particularly preferred method the sulfide, III, n 0 , wherein M, Y and Z are as previously defined, is reacted with a compound of the formula X2CH2C1 where X2is as defined above, e.g., ICH2C1, employing methods and conditions defined previously for the preferred method employing X2CE2X. In the second step of this method the chloromethyl ester is converted to the corresponding iodomethyl ester IV, n 0, X 1 , for example by contacting it with at least an equimolar amount of an alkali metal iodide, alkaline earth metal iodide or ammonium iodide in the presence of a reaction inert polar solvent. Examples of suitable solvents for this reaction are dimethylformamide, N methylpyrrolidone, dimethyl sulfoxide, methanol, ethanol, ethyl acetate, acetone and methylethyl ketone. A preferred solvent is acetone. While the reaction can be carried out successfully over a wide range of temperature, a temperature in the range. of about 0 to 500C., and especially 20 to 400C. is preferred. Within the latter range of temperature the reaction is ordinarily complete in from about 1 to 20 hours.The desired product of formula IV, n 0, X 1 , is then isolated and purified by methods well known to those of skill in the art. For example, the solvent is evaporated, the residue partitioned between water and a waterimmiscible solvent, e.g. ethyl acetate. Evaporation of solvent then affords the product which can be purified, if desired, e.g., by chromatography on silica gel. In the next step of this especially preferred method the iodomethyl ester of formula IV, n 0,X I is oxidized to the corresponding sulfone of formula V, X I employing one of the above preferred oxidizing agents described above, under the preferred conditions, also described above. The iodomethyl ester V, X I is then coupled with a compound of formula VI as described above, to provide the invention compounds of formula I . At least two moles of hydrogen peroxide per mole of said sulfide is required to provide the corresponding sulfone. An alternate method for preparation of the iodomethyl sulfone V, X I involves oxidation of the chloromethyl ester of formula IV, n 0, X C1 or, e.g., the corresponding sulfone employing the above oxidants and conditions and subsequent conversion of, e.g. the chloromethyl sulfone to the iodomethyl sulfone V by reaction with iodide salt, also as described above. .Rowever, the latter step witch iodide salt, e.g. NaI in acetone, with compounds wherein both of Y and Z are halogen can result in partial dehalogenation at the 6 position of the sulfone to afford a mixture containing iodomethyl 6alpha halopenicillanate l,l dioxide as well as the desired 6,6 dihalo compound of formula V, X I . An alternate method for obtaining the valuable intermediates of formula I involves reaction of a compound of formula XI with a compound of formula XII as illustrated belowEMI18.1 wherein R1, M, Q, X1, Y and Z are as previously defined, employing the same procedure and conditions described above for the coupling reaction with compounds of formulae V and VI . The compounds of formula I are useful intermediates for production of the valuable antibiotic compounds of formula II , disclosed in U.S.. 4,244,951. While various methods can be employed for conversion of intermediates of formula I to the antibiotics of formula II , a particularly convenient and preferred method is the simultaneous hydrogenolysis of halogen groups Y and Z as defined above and reduction of the azido or benzyloxycarbonylamino group Q, as defined above, to NH2 by means of hydrogen in the presence of a noble metal catalyst. A particularly convenient method for carrying out this simultaneous hydrogenolysis and reduction is to stir or shake a solution of a compound of the formula I under an atmosphere of hydrogen, or hydrogen mixed with an inert diluent such as nitrogen or argon, in the presence of a noble metal hydrogenation catalyst, and a reaction inert solvent.Suitable solvents for this hydrogenation reaction are those which substantially dissolve the starting compound of the formula I but which do not themselves suffer hydrogenation or hydrogenolysis.Examples of such solvents include lower alkanols such as methanol, ethanol and isopropanol ethers such as diethyl ether, tetrahydrofuran, dioxan and 1,2dimethoxyethane low molecular weight esters such as ethyl acetate and butyl acetate tertiary amides such as N,N dimethylformamide, N,N dimethylacetamide andN methylpyrrolidone methylene chloride and mixtures thereof. Additionally, it is often desirable to carry out this reaction in the presence of a sufficient amount of an acid binding agent to bind one or both molar equivalents of hydrogen halide formed. Examples of suitable acid binding agents include sodium bicarbonate, calcium carbonate, trisodium phosphate, potassium citrate and tertiary amines such as triethylamine, N, N dimethylanil ine, N methylmorpholine, N methylpiperidine, N,N1 dimethylpiperazine and the like. Introduction of the hydrogen gas into the reaction medium is usually accomplished by carrying out the reaction in a sealed vessel, containing the compound of formula I , the solvent, the catalyst and the hydrogen. The pressure inside the reaction vessel can vary from about 1 to about 100 kg. cm.2. The preferred pressure range, when the atmosphere inside the reaction vessel is substantially pure hydrogen, is from about 2 to about 5 kg. cm.2. The reaction with hydrogen is generally run at a temperature of from about 0 to about 600C,, and preferably from about 250 to about 500C. Utilizing the preferred temperature and pressure values, hydrogenolysis of halogens and reduction of the group Q generally takes place in a few hours, e.g., from about 2 hours to about 20 hours.The preferred noble metal catalysts used in this hydrogenation reaction are the type of agents known in the art for this kind of transformation, for example, nickel, palladium, platinum and rhodium.Palladium is particularly preferred. The catalyst is usually present in an amount from about 0.1 to about 25 weight percent, and preferably from about 1 to about 10 weight percent, based on the compound of formula I .. It is often convenient to suspend the catalyst on an inert support one particularly convenient catalyst is palladium suspended on an inert support such as carbon. Another convenient catalyst is palladium on calcium carbonate in which the calcium carbonate serves as a support for the noble metal. and as acid binding agent. When the hydrogenolysis and reduction is substantially complete, the desired antibiotic of formula II is then isolated by standard methods, e.g., the catalyst is removed by filtration, the solvent evaporated and the product purified, if desired, by well known methods such as crystallization or by chromatography. Alternatively, the product of formula II can be isolated in the form of a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt, for example by treating filtrate obtained upon removal of catalyst or a solution of the isolated free base with an equivalent amount of a pharmaceutically acceptable acid and removal of solvent, e.g. by filtration or evaporation. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable acids which may be employed include hydrochloric, hydrobromic, sulfuric, phosphoric, acetic, maleic, fumaric, succinic, lactic, tartaric, citric, gluconic, saccharic and toluenesulfonic acids. It should also be noted that the hydrochloride, hydrobromide, hydroiodide salt or mixtures thereof of compounds of formula II is obtained directly from the hydrogenation mixture if one employs only one molar equivalent of acid binding agent for the starting materials of formula I wherein each of Y and Z are C1, Br or I, or no acid binding agent is employed for starting materials of formula I wherein Y is H and Z is Cl, Br or I. As mentioned above the compounds of formula I are useful intermediates for preparation of antibacterial agents of formulae CII and VIII disclosed in U.S. Patent 4,244,951 and British Patent ApplicationNo. 2,044,255. The compounds of formula II and VII1 possess in vivo antibacterial activity in mammals, and this activity can be demonstrated by standard techniques for penicillin compounds. For example, the compound of formula II is administered to mice in which acute infections have been established by intraperitoneal inoculation with a standardized culture of a pathogenic bacterium. Infection severity is standardized such that the mice receive one to ten times theLD100 LD100 the minimum inoculation required to consistently kill 100 percent of control mice .At the end of the test, the activity of the compound is assessed by counting the number of survivors which have been challenged by the bacterium and also have received the compound of formula it . The compounds of formula II can be administered by both the oral p.o. and subcutaneous s.c. route. The in vivo activity of the antibacterial compounds II and VIII make them suitable for the control of bacterial infections in mammals, including man, by both the oral and parenteral modes of administration. The compounds are useful in the control of infections caused by susceptible bacteria in human subjects. In general, it is the substituent Rb which determines whether a given bacterium will be susceptible to a given compound of formula VIII. . A compound of formula VIII breaks down to the corresponding compound of formula VII or salt thereof and penicillanic acid l,l dioxide XIII after administration to a mammalian subject by either the oral or parenteral route.EMI22.1 Penicillanic acid l,l dioxide then functions as a beta lactamase inhibitor, and it increases the antibacterial effectiveness of the compound of formula VII or salt thereof . When Rb is D 2amino 2 phenylacetyl or D 2 amino 2 4 hydroxyphenyl acetyl the compounds are useful in the control of infections caused by susceptible strains of Escherichia coli and Staphylococcus aureus. In determining whether a particular strain ofStaphylococcus aureus or Escherichia coli is sensitive to a particular compound of formulae II and VIII , the in vivo test described earlier can be used.Alternatively, the minimum inhibitory concentration MIC of a 1 1 mixture of the compound of formula VII or its salt and the compound of formula XIII or its salt can be measured. The MIC s can be measured by the procedure recommended by the InternationalCollaborative Study on Antibiotic Sensitivity Testing Ericcson and Sherris, Acta. PÅathologica et Microbiologia Scandinav, Supp. 217, Section B 64 68 1971 , which employs brain heart infusion BBI agar and the inocula replicating device. Overnight growth tubes are diluted 100 fold for use as the standard inoculum 20,000 10,000 cells in approximately 0.002 ml. are placed on.the agar surface 20 ml. of Bill agar dish .Twelve 2 fold dilutions of the test compound are employed, with initial concentration of the test drug being 200 mcg. ml. Single colonies are disregarded when reading plates after 18 hrs. at 370C. The susceptibility MIC of the test organism is accepted as the lowest concentration of compound capable of producing complete inhibition of growth as judged by the naked eye. When using an antibacterial compound of formula II , or a salt thereof, in a mammal, particularly man, the compound can be administered alone, or it can be mixed with other antibiotic substances and or pharmaceutically acceptable carriers or diluents. Said carrier or diluent is chosen on the basis of the intended mode of administration. For example, when considering the oral mode of administration, the antibacterial compound II can be used in the form of tablets, capsules, lozenges, troches, powders, syrups, elixirs, aqueous solutions and suspensions, and the like, in accordance with standard pharmaceutical practice. The proportional ratio of active ingredient to carrier will naturally depend on the chemical nature, solubility and stability of the active ingredient, as well as the dosage contemplated.In the case of tablets for oral use, carriers which are commonly used include lactose, sodium citrate and salts of phosphoric acid. Various disintegrants such as starch, and lubricating agents, such as magnesium stearate, sodium lauryl sulfate and talc, are commonly used in tablets. For oral administration in capsule form, useful diluents are lactose and high molecular weight polyethylene glycols, e.g. polyethylene glycols having molecular weights of from 2000 to 4000. When aqueous suspensions are required for oral use, the active ingredient is combined with emulsifying and suspending agents. If desired, certain sweetening and or flavoring agents can be added.For parenteral administration, which includes intramuscular, intra peritoneal r subcutaneous, and intravenous use, sterile solutions of the active ingredient are usually prepared, and the pH of the solutions are suitably adjusted and buffered. For intravenous use, the total concentration of solutes should be controlled to render the preparation isotonic. The antibacterial compounds of formula II and pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof are of use in human subjects and the daily dosages to be used will not differ significantly from other, clinicallyused, penicillin antibiotics. The prescribing physician will ultimately determine the appropriate dose for a given human subject, and this can be expected to vary according to the age, weight, and response of the individual patient as well as the nature and the severity of the patient s symptoms.The compounds II will normally be used orally at dosages in the range from about 20 to about 100 mg.per kilogram of body weight per day, and parenterally at dosages from about l0 to about 100 mg. per kilogram of body weight per day, usually in divided doses. In some instances it may be necessary to use doses outside these ranges. The following examples and preparations are provided solely for further illustration. Infrared IR spectra were measured neat, as nujol mulls, or as potassium bromide discs KBr discs and diagnostic absorption bands are reported in wave numbers cm 1 . Nuclear magnetic resonance spectra NMR were measured at 60 MHz for solutions in deuterated chloroform CDCl3 , D2O, CD3SOCD3, or deuterated acetone CD3COCD3 , and peak positions are reported in parts per million downfield from tetramethylsilane. The following abbreviations for peak shapes are used s, singlet d, doublet t, triplet q, quartet m, multiplet dd, double doublet. EXAMPLE 1 Chloromethyl 6, 6 dibromopenicillanate 6,6 Dibromopenicillanic acid 8.0 g., 22 mmole was stirred with 75 ml. methylene chloride, 35 ml.water was added. To this was added tetrabutylammonium hydroxide to adjust to pil 8. The organic layer was separated, the aqueous phase extracted with 30 ml.methylene chloride. The combined organic layers were evaporated to dryness in vacuo to provide the tetrabutylammonium salt of 6,6 dibromopenicillanic acid, 14.2 g., as a light brown oil. To this was added 40 ml. of chloroiodomethane, and the resulting mixture stirred under nitrogen for three hours at room temperature. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo, the residue stored overnight, at room temperature and 7purified by chromatography on 300 g.silica gel, eluting with 95 5 by volume toluene ethyl acetate. Fractions containing the less polar material were combined and evaporated to afford 5.4 g. 59 of the desired product, M. P. 105 1060C. 1H NMR CDC13 ppm delta 1.6 s, 3H , 1.75 s, 3H , 4.62 s, lah , 5.8 dd, 2H , 5.82 s, 1H . When the above procedure is repeated, except that the chloroiodomethane used therein is replaced by an equimolar amount of bromoiodomethane, diiodomethane, di methylsulfonyloxy methane, di isobutylsulfonyloxy methane, di n hexylsulfonyloxy methane, di benzenesulfonyloxy methane or a compound of the formula R2C6H4SO2O 2CH2 where R2is 4 C1, 2 Br, 4 I, 3 NO2, 4 CH3, 3 CH3 2CH, 4 CH30, 3 C2H50 or 4 n C3H70, this affords, respectively bromomethyl 6, 6 dibromopenicillanate, iodomethyl 6,6 dibromopenicillanate, methylsulfonyloxymethyl 6, 6 dibromopenicillanate, isobutylsulfonyloxymethyl 6, 6 dibromopenicillanate n hexylsulfonyloxymethyl 6, 6 dibromopenicillanate benzenesulfonyloxymethyl 6, 6 dibromopenicillanate, and R2 C6H4 sulfonyloxymethyl 6,6 dibromopenicillanates where R2is as defined above for the di substituted phenylsulfonyloxy methane reagent. EXAMPLE 1A lodomethyl 6,6 dibromopenicillanate To 25 ml. of acetone was added 4.15 g. 10.2 mmole chloromethyl 6,6 dibromopenicillanic acid and 7.5 g. 50 mmole sodium iodide. The mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature and the acetone was evaporated to afford a dark residue. This was dissolved in 150 ml. ethyl acetate, washed with water 3 x 25 my. , saturated brine 25 ml. , dried MgSO4 and the solvent evaporated in vacuo to yield a residual oil which was purified by chromatography on 100 g. silica gel, eluting with 1 1 by volume ethyl acetate hexane. Thirty milliliter fractions were collected. The product eluted in fractions 4 6, which were combined and evaporated to afford 5.95 g. of colorless oil which crystallized upon standing,M.P. 67 680C. 1H NMR CDC13 ppm delta 1.55 s, 3H , 1.65 s, 3H , 4.54 s, liy , 5.8 s, liy , 5.98 s, 2H . Employing bromomethyl 6, 6 dibromopenicillanate, bromomethyl 6, 6 dichloropenicillanate, chloromethyl 6, 6 dichloropenicillanate, chloromethyl 6 bromo 6chloropenicillanate, chloromethyl 6 chloro 6 iodopenicillanate, chloromethyl 6 bromo 6 iodopenicillanate or bromomethyl 6 bromo 6 iodopenicillanate in place of chloromethyl 6,6 dibromopenicillanate in the above procedure provides the corresponding iodomethyl ester, in each case. EXAMPLE 1B Employing the appropriate 6 substituted or 6,6 disubstituted penicillanic acid in the procedures ofExample 1 and 1A, the following esters are prepared in like manner.EMI28.1 Y z X H alpha Br IH alpha Cl CH3S020H alpha I C2H5SO2OH beta Cl CH3 2CHCH2SO2OH beta Br ClH beta I C6H5SO2O Cl Cl 4 CH3C6H4SO2OCl Cl ClBr Cl Cl Cl I n C6H13SO2OCl I Cl Br I ClBr I CH3SO2OBr Br BrI I Cl Br Br 4 CH3C6H4SO2OCl I 4 ClC6H4SO2OBr I 4 CH3OC6H4SO2OI I ICl Cl 2 BrC6H4S020 Cl Br 4 IC6H4SO2O Cl Cl 3 NO2C6E4SO2Cl Cl 3 CH3 2CHC6H4SO2OBr Br 3 C2H5OC6H4SO2O Cl I I 4 n C3H70C6H4SO2O EXAMPLE 2 Chloromethyl 6 ,6 dibromopenicillanate l,l Dioxide A solution of 7.1 g. 17.4 mmole chloromethyl 6,6 dibromopenicillanate in 75 ml. ethyl acetate was cooled to OOC. and 7.3 g. 36 mmole of m chloroperbenzoic acid was added. The mixture was stirred under nitrogen at OOC. overnight, diluted to 150 ml.with ethyl acetate, and 50 ml. water added at OOC. Sufficient sodium bisulfite was added to destroy the excess peracid, the mixture adjusted from pH 2 to pH 7.5 with sodium bicarbonate, the organic layer separated and washed with 50 ml. saturated sodium bicarbonate, 50 ml. water and 25 ml. brine. The washed extracts were dried MgSO4 , concentrated to dryness in vacuo and the residue purified by chromatography on 300 g. silica gel, eluting with 9 1 by volume toluene hexane to afford 5.0 g. 65 of the desired dioxide as a crystalline solid, M.P. 95 960C. H NMR CDC13 ppm delta 1.5 s, 3H , 1.7 s, 3H , 4.58 s, 1H , 5.04 s, liy , 5.8 dd, 2H . Analysis Calculated for CgH10No5sBr2cl C, 24.59 H, 2.29 N, 3.18Found C, 24.63 H, 2.49 N, 3.31. A second, more polar component was isolated from the chromatography column, 0.8 g. This was identified as a 9 1 mixture of the alpha and betasulfoxides of chloromethyl 6, 6 dibromopenicillanate by 1H NMR. EXAMPLE 2A lodomethyl 6, 6 dibromopenicillanate l,l Dioxide To 40 ml. of acetone was added 0.25 g. 0.5 mmole iodomethyl 6,6 dibromopenicillanate and the mixture stirred until a solution was obtained, water, 10 ml., was added followed by sufficient concentrated phosphoric acid to adjust the mixture to pH 4.0. Then 158 mg. 1 mmole powdered potassium permanganate was added and the mixture stirred at room temperature for 1.25 hours. Ethyl acetate, 100 ml. and water, 50 ml., were added. The resulting mixture adjusted to pH 2.0 with 6N hydrochloric acid and sodium bisulfite added to consume the excess oxidizing agent pH 2.9 . The organic layer was separated, the aqueous phase extracted with 50 ml. ethyl acetate and the combined organic layers were washed with saturated brine 3 x 25 ml. . After drying over anhydrous sodium sulfate and evaporation of solvent, 0.29 g. of colorless oil was obtained. The oil was purified by chromatography on 25 g. of silica gel eluting with 1 1 ethyl acetate hexane taking 15 ml.fractions. Fractions 4 and 5 were combined and evaporated in vacuo to yield 0.27 g. 100 of colorless oil which crystallized upon standing, M.P. 71 73 C. 1H NMR CDC13 ppm delta 1.5 s, 3H , 1.62 s, 3H , 4.49 s, lah , 5.02 s, lah , 5.98 dd, 2E . Use of an equivalent amount of sodium permanganate or calcium permanganate in place of potassium permanganate in the above procedure afforded the same product in like manner. Attempts to prepare iodomethyl 6,6 dibromopenicillanate l,l dioxide from the chloromethyl ester prepared in Example 2, by treatment with sodium iodide in acetone by the procedure of Example 1A gave iodomethyl 6 alpha bromopenicillanate 1,1dioxide. 1H NMR CDC13 ppm delta 1.55 s, 3H , 1.70 s, 3H , 4.43 s, 1H , 5.2 d, 1H , 5.75 d, liy , 6.0 dd, 2H . EXAMPLE 3 Iodomethyl 6 bromo 6 chloropenicillanate l,l Dioxide A solution of 7.6 g. 17.4 mmole iodomethyl 6bromo 6 chloropenicillanate in 75 ml. ethyl acetate was cooled to 0 C. and 7.3 g. 36 mmole of mchloroperbenzoic acid was added. The mixture was stirred under nitrogen at OOC. overnight, diluted to 150 ml. with ethyl acetate, and 50 ml. water added at 0 C. Sufficient sodium bisulfite was added to destroy the excess peracid, the mixture adjusted from pH 2 to pil 7.5 with sodium bicarbonate, the organic layer separated and washed with 50 ml.saturated sodium bicarbonate, 50 ml. water and 25 ml. brine. The washed extracts were dried MgSO4 , concentrated to dryness in vacuo and the residue purified by chromatography on silica gel. EXAMPLE 4 Iodomethyl 6,6 dichloropenicillanate l,l Dioxide To a solution of 4.09 g. 0.01 mole iodomethyl 6,6 dichloropenicillanate in 50 ml. acetone is added 2.5 ml. 0.24 mole 30 hydrogen peroxide and 1 ml of 0.5M aqueous sodium tungstate. The mixture is heated at reflux for one hour and allowed to stir overnight at room temperature. Evaporation of solvent affords the crude product which is purified by chromatography on silica gel. When aqueous potassium molybdate or zirconium tetrachloride is used in place of sodium tungstate in the above procedure the result is substantially the same. When methanol, ethanol, isopropanol, methylethyl ketone or their mixtures with water are employed as solvent in place of acetone and the reaction is carried out at from 25 to .600C., the title compound is obtained in like manner. EXAMPLE 5 Employing the compounds provided in Example 1B as starting materials in the.procedures of Example 2 through 4 provides the corresponding compound of the formula belowEMI32.1 where Y, Z and X are as defined in Example 1B. EXAMPLE 6 Chloromethyl 6 beta bromopenicillanate l,l Dioxide To a solution of 3.52 g. 8 mmole chloromethyl 6,6 dibromopenicillanate l,l dioxide in dry benzene 100 ml. , under nitrogen, is added at Ooh., 2.32 g. 8 mmole tri n butyltin hydride. The resulting mixture is stirred overnight at room temperature, the solvent evaporated in vacuo and the residue purified by column chromatography on silica gel to provide the title compound. Alternately, the same product is obtained by employing chloromethyl 6, 6 dibromopenicillanic acid in the above procedure and oxidizing the resulting sulfide, chloromethyl 6 beta bromopenicillanate, to the sulfone by the procedures of Example 2, 2A, 3 or 4. EXAMPLE 7 lodomethyl 6 beta bromopenicillanate 1,1 Dioxide A solution of 0.12 g. 0.33 mmole chloromethyl 6 beta bromopenicillanate l,l dioxide and 0.25 g. 1.66 mmole sodium iodide in 5 ml. of acetone was stirred 30 hours at room temperature. The resulting pale yellow suspension was evaporated to dryness and the residue taken up in 50 ml. of ethyl acetate, washed successively with 2 x 10 ml. water, 10 ml.saturated brine and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The resulting solution was evaporated at reduced pressure to obtain the title compound, as a solid, 0.14 g. 1E NMR CDC13 ppm delta 1.45 s, 3H , 1.65 s, 3H , 4.5 s, 1H , 4.83 d, liy , 5.42 d, 1H , 6.0 dd, 2H . EXAMPLE 8 6 alpha Bromopenicillanic Acid l,l Dioxide To a stirred mixture of 560 ml. of water, 300 ml. of dichloromethane and 56.0 g. of 6 alphabromopenicillanic acid was added 4N sodium hydroxide solution until a stable pil of 7.2 was achieved.This required 55 ml. of sodium hydroxide. The mixture was stirred at pH 7.2 for 10 minutes and then it was filtered. The layers were separated and the organic phase was discarded. The aqueous phase was then poured rapidly, with stirring, into an oxidizing mixture which had been prepared as follows. In a 3 liter flask was mixed 63.2 g. of potassium permanganate, 1,000 ml. of water and 48.0 g. of acetic acid. This mixture was stirred for 15 minutes at 200C. and then it was cooled to 0 C. After the 6 alpha bromopenicillanic acid solution had been added to the oxidizing mixture, a cooling bath at 15 C. was maintained around the reaction mixture. The internal temperature rose to 150C. and then fell to 50C. over a 20 minute period. At this point, 30.0 g. of sodium metabisulfite was added with stirring over a 10 minute period at about 100C.After a further 15 minutes, the mixture was filtered, and the pH of the filtrate was lowered to 1.2 by the addition of 170 ml. of 6N hydrochloric acid. The aqueous phase was extracted with chloroform, and then with ethyl acetate. Both the chloroform extracts and the ethyl acetate extracts were dried using anhydrous magnesium sulfate and then they were evaporated in vacuo. The chloroform solution afforded 10.0 g. 16 yield of the title compound. The ethyl acetate solution afforded 57 g. of an oil, which was triturated under hexane. A white solid appeared. It was filtered off, giving 41.5 g. 66 yield of the title compound, M.P. 1340C. dec. . Analysis Calculated for C8H10BrNO5S C, 30.78 H, 3.23 Br, 25.60 N, 4.49 S, 10.27 .Found C, 31.05 , 3.24 Br, 25.54 N, 4.66 S, 10.21 . Oxidation of 6 alpha chloropenicillanic acid and 6 alpha iodopenicillanic acid with potassium permanganate, according to the above procedure, affords 6 alpha chloropenicillanic acid l,l ioxide and 6 alpha iodopenicillanic Åacidsl,l dioxide, respectively. EXAMPLE 9 6 beta Chloropenicillanic Acid l,1 Dioxide An oxidizing solution was prepared from 185 mg.of potassium permanganate, 0.063 ml. of 85 phosphoric acid and 5 ml. of water. This oxidizing solution was added dropwise to a solution of 150 mg. of sodium 6 beta chloropenicillanate in 5 ml. of water at 0 50C., until the purple color of the potassium permanganate persisted. Approximately half of the oxidizing solution was required. At this point, the potassium permanganate color was discharged by the addition of solid sodium bisulfite, and then the reaction mixture was filtered. Ethyl acetate was added to the filtrate and the pH was adjusted to 1.8. The layers were separated and the aqueous layer was further extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined ethyl acetate layers were washed with water, dried and evaporated in vacuo to give 118 mg.of the title compound. The NMR spectrum in CD3COCD3 showed absorption at 5.82 d, 1H , 5.24 d, liy , 4.53 s, 1H , 1.62 s, 3H and 1.50 s, 3H ppm. The above product was dissolved in tetrahydrofuran and an equal volume of water was added. The pH was adjusted to 6.8 using dilute sodium hydroxide, the tetrahydrofuran was removed by evaporation in vacuo, and the residual aqueous solution was freeze dried. This afforded the sodium salt of the title compound. EXAMPLE 10 6 beta Bromopenicillanic Adid l,l Dioxide To a solution of 255 mg. of sodium 6 beta bromopenicillanate in 5 ml. of water, at 0 to 50C., was added a solution prepared from 140 mg. of potassium permanganate, 0.11 ml. of 858 phosphoric acid and 5 ml. of water, at 0 to 50C. The pH was maintained between 6.0 and 6.4 during the addition.The reaction mixture was stirred at pH 6.3 for 15 minutes, and then the purple solution was covered with ethyl acetate. The pH was adjusted to 1.7 and 330 mg. of sodium bisulfite was added. After 5 minutes, the layers were separated and the aqueous layer was further extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined ethyl acetate solutions were washed with brine, dried MgSO4 and evaporated in vacuo. This afforded 216 mg. of the title compound as white crystals. The NMR spectrum in D20 showed absorptions at 5.78 d, ls, J 4Hz , 5.25 d, lil, J 4Hz , 4.20 s, lah , 1.65 s, 3H and 1.46 s, 3H ppm. EXAMPLE 11 6 beta Iodonenicillanic Acid l,l Dioxide Oxidation of 6 beta iodopenicillanic acid with potassium permanganate, according to the procedure of Example 10, affords 6 beta iodopenicillanic acid, 1 ,l dioxide. EXAMPLE 12 Chloromethyl 6 aipha bromopenicillanate l,l Dioxide 6 alpha Bromopenicillanic acid l,l dioxide is esterified by the procedure of Example 1 to provide the title compound. The above procedure is repeated but the chloroiodomethane used therein is replaced by an equimolar amount of bromoiodomethane, diiodomethane, di methylsulfonyloxy methane, di isopropylsulfonyloxy methane, di isovalerylsulfonyloxy methane or a compound of the formula RêC6H4SO2O 2CH2 where R2 is H, 3 C1, 4 Br, 4 NO 4 CR3, 3 n C3H7 4 CH30, 4 C12H50 or 3 CH3 2CH2 to provide, respectively bromomethyl 6 alpha bromopenicillanate 1,1dioxide, iodomethyl 6 alpha bromopenicillanate 1,1dioxide, methylsulfonyloxymethyl 6 alpha bromopenicillanate 1,1 dioxide, isopropylsulfonyloxymethyl 6 alpha bromopenicillanate l,l dioxide, isovalerylsulfonyloxymethyl 6 alpha bromopenicillanate 1,1 dioxide, and R2C6H4 sulfonyloxymethyl 6 alpha bromopenicillanate l,l dioxides where Rê is as defined above. The corresponding esters of 6 alpha chloropenicillanic acid l,l dioxide 6 alpha iodopenicillanic acid l,l dioxide 6 beta chloropenicillanic acid l,l dioxide and 6 beta iodopenicillanic acid 1,1dioxide are prepared in like manner. EXAMPLE 13 Chloromethyl 6 alphÅa ChloroDenicillanate A mixture of 2.35 g. 0.01 mole 6 alphachloropenicillanic acid and 5.0 ml. water is treated.with 5.0 ml. 2N potassium hydroxide. Potassium bicarbonate 6.0 g. , tetrabutylammonium hydrogen sulfate 0.34 g., 0.001 mole , dichloromethane 20 ml. and chloromethyl chlorosulfate 1.64 g., 0.011 mole is added and the resulting mixture stirred at 25 to 300C. for two hours. The reaction mixture is filtered, the layers separated. The organic phase is dried Na2SO4 and evaporated to dryness to afford the title compound. The following compounds are made in like manner from.the appropriate 6 substituted penicillanic acid chloromethyl 6 alpha bromopenicillanate, chloromethyl 6 alpha iodopenicillanate, chloromethyl 6 beta chloropenicillanate, chloromethyl 6 beta bromopenicillanate, chloromethyl 6 beta iodopenicillanate chloromethyl 6,6 dibromopenicilllanate, chloromethyl 6,6 dichloropenicilllanate, chioromethyl 6,6 diiodopenicillanate, chloromethyl 6 chloro 6 iodopenicillanate, chloromethyl 6 bromo 6 iodopenicillanate, chloromethyl 6 bromo 6 chloropenicillanate. EXAMPLE 14 Chloromethyl 6 alpha chloropenici1 lanate l Oxide To a stirred solution of 8.49 g. 0.03 mole chloromethyl 6 alpha chloropenicillanate in 200 ml.chloroform is added at 0 C. a solution of 6.12 g. 0.03 mole 3 chloroperbenzoic acid in 100 ml.chloroform. Stirring is continued for 1.5 hours at 0 50C. The reaction mixture is then filtered, washed with sodium bicarbonate solution, water and dried Na2SO4 . Evaporation of solvent In vacuo affords the crude title compound as a mixture of alpha and beta sulfoxides which can be purified, if desired, by chromatography on silica gel. Alternately, the title compound is prepared by oxidation of 6 alpha chloropenicillanic acid by oxidation with one equivalent of 3 chloroperbenzoic acid in tetrahydrofuran at 0 25 C. for about one hour, according to the procedure of Harrison et al.,Jour. Chem. Soc. London , Perkin I, 1772 1976 .The resulting 6 alpha chloropenicillanic acid Ioxide is then esterified by the procedure of Example 1 to provide the desired chloromethyl ester. The remaining 6 substituted penicillanate esters and 6,6 dihalopenicillanate esters provided in Examples 1, 1B and 13 are converted to the corresponding l oxides by the above procedure. The same compound is obtained by reaction of 0.1 mole chloromethyl 6 alpha chloropenicillanate in 150 ml. isopropanol containing 0.8 ml. of 0.5M sodium tungstate Na2WO4 or an equivalent amount of potassium molybdate K2MoO4 with 0.1 mole of hydrogen peroxide 30 . The peroxide is added slowly to the other reagents at 600C., after which the mixture is allawed to cool while stirring overnight. The product is isolated as described above. EXAMPLE 15 Chloromethyl 6 alpha chloropenicillanate l,l Dioxide To a solution of 2.83 g., 0.01 mole chloromethyl 6 alpha chloropenicillanate in 50 ml. of chloroform is added 4.32 g. 0.025 mole m chloroperbenzoic acid and the mixture is stirred under a nitrogen atmosphere for 36 hours at room temperature. The solvent is evaporated in vacuo, the residue partitioned between ethyl acetate and water at pH 6.0 and sodium bisulfite is added until a test for the presence of peroxides is negative. The pH is adjusted to 8.0, the layers separated and the organic phase is washed with brine, dried Na2SO4 and evaporated to dryness in vacuo to provide the title compound. Alternatively, the title compound is obtained by oxidation of the same starting material in methanol or ethanol containing a catalytic amount of sodium tungstate and addition of 2 molar equivalents of hydrogen peroxide at temperatures of from 20 to 600C. In like manner the remaining penicillanate esters provided in Example 13 are converted to the corresponding l,l dioxides by the above procedures. Similarly, the remaining chloromethyl 6 substituted and 6,6 disubstituted penicillanate 1 oxides provided in Example 14 are converted to l,l dioxides by the above procedure employing one half the amount of m chloroperbenzoic acid, or by employing an equimolar amount of peracetic acid. EXAMPLE 16 1 ,l Dioxo 6, 6 dibromopenicillanoyloxymethyl 6 D 2 azido 2 phenylacet2mido penicillanate To a mixture of 0.232 g. 0.37 mmole tetrabutylammonium 6 D 2 azido 2 phenylacetamido penicillanate and 10 ml. acetone was added 0.20 g. 0.37 mmole iodomethyl 6,6 dibromopenicillanate 1,l dioxide and the mixture stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes. An additional 50 mg. of tetrabutylammonium D 2 azido 2phenylacetamido penicillanate was added and stirring dontinued for 30 minutes. The reaction mixture was concentrated to dryness and the residue placed on a column of silica gel 50 g. . Elution with 1 1 v v ethyl acetate hexane was carried out taking 7 ml.fractions. Fractions 17 24 were combined and evaporated in vacuo to afford 0.14 g. 49 of the desired product as a light yellow oil. . 1H NMR CDC13 ppm delta 1.4 s, 3H , 1.5 s, 3H , 1.59 s, 3H , 1.62 s, 3H , 4.4 s, 1H , 4.5 s, 1H , 4.97 s, 1H , 5.04 s, 1H , 5.4 5.70 m, 2H , 5.85 s, 2E , 7.05 d, 1H , 7.35 s, 5H Infrared neat cm 1 1810, 1775. The tetrabutylammonium salt was prepared as follows One gram of sodium D 2 azido 2 phenylacetamido penicillanate, 50 ml. ethyl acetate and 25 ml. water, were combined and adjusted to pH 2.0 2N HC1 . The organic layer was separated, washed with brine 10 ml. and the solvent evaporated in vacuo. The residual foam was dissolved in 30 ml. methylene.chloride, 15 ml. water was added and 40 tetrabutylammonium hydroxide solution was added until the aqueous phase reached pH 8.0. The organic layer was separated, the aqueous layer extracted again with methylene chloride 2 x 20 ml. and the combined extracts were dried Na2SO4 and concentrated. to dryness to afford a hard gum. This was triturated with ethyl acetate 2 x 10 ml. and ethyl ether 2 x 10 ml. . The resulting off white solid was air dried to afford 1.25 g. of the desired tetrabutylammonium salt. EXAMPLE 17 1,1 Dioxo 6,6 dibromopenicillanoyloxy methyl 6 D 2 benzyloxycarbonyl amino 2 phenylacetamido penicillanate The title compound is obtained by employing tetrabutylammonium 6 D 2 benzyloxycarbonylamino 2phenylacetamido penicillanate in place of the corresponding azidocillin salt in the procedure ofExample 10. EXAMPLE 18 1,1 Dioxo 6 bromo 6 chloropenicillanoyloxymethyl 6 ED 2 azido 2 p hydroxyphenyl acetamido penicillanate To a stirred solution of 4.29 g. 0.01 mole potassium 6 D 2 azido 2 2 hydroxyphenylacetamido penicillanate in 75 ml. dimethylsulfoxide is added 4.86 g. 0.01 mole iodomethyl 6 bromo 6 chloropenicillanate l,l dioxide and the mixture stirred at ambient temperature for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was poured into water, extracted with ethyl acetate, the extracts washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution, then dried Na2SO4 .Evaporation of solvent affords the crude product which can be purified if desired by chromatography on silica gel. When the above reaction is carried out in dimethylformamide, N methylpyrrol idone, ethyl acetate, dichloromethane or hexamethylphosphoric acid triamide as solvent in place of dimethylsulfoxide at temperatures of from 25 to 500C., the results are substantially the same. EXAMPLE 19 1 ,l Dioxo 6, 6 dichloropenicillanoyloxymethyl 6 D 2 azido 2 henylÅacetamido penicillanate A mixture of 3.08 g. 5 mmole tetrabutylammonium 6 D 2 azido 2 phenylacetamido penicillanate, ethyl acetate 25 ml. and methylene chloride 10 ml. is stirred and a solution of 2.21 g. 5 mmole iodomethyl 6,6 dichloropenicillanate l,l dioxide in 20 ml.ethyl acetate is added. The resulting mixture is stirred at room temperature for one hour, the methylene chloride evaporated in vadud and the precipitate of tetrabutylammonium iodode is removed by filtration. Evaporation of the filtrate affords the desired product. EXAMPLE 20 1 ,l Dioxo 6 bromo 6 iodopenicillanoyloxy methyl 6 p 2 benzyloxycarbonylamino 2 phenylacetamido penicillanate Sodium 6 D 2 benzyloxycarbonylamino 2 phenyl acetamido penicillanate 4.05 g., 0.01 mole , 4toluenesulfonyloxymethyl 6 bromo 6 iodopenicillanate l,l dioxide and 50 ml. dimethylformamide are combined and stirred at 300C. for 24 hours. The mixture is poured into water 125 ml. , the pH adjusted to 8.5 with sodium hydroxide solution and extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract is washed with water, brine, dried Na2SO4 and the solvent evaporated in vacuo to afford the crude title compound. It is purified by column chromatography on silica gel. EXAMPLE 21 1 ,1 Dioxo 6, 6 dibromopenicillanoyloxymethyl 6 D 2 benzyloxycarbonylamino 2 l hydroxyphenyl acetamido penicillanate To a mixture of 101.3 g. 0.25 mole 6 D 2 benzyloxycarbonylamino 2 hydroxyphenyl acetamido penicillanic acid, 250 ml. water, 500 ml. methylene chloride and 84.8 g. 0.25 mole tetrabutylammonium bisulfate at 5 C. is added 125 ml. 2N sodium hydroxide while maintaining the mixture at 5 10 C. The organic layer is separated and the aqueous phase extracted with methylene chloride. The combined organic layers are dried Na2SO4 and solvent evaporated in vacuo. The residue is dissolved in 1000 ml. ethyl acetate, evaporated in vacuo to about 300 ml. and refrigerated overnight.The precipitated tetrabutylammonium 6 D 2 benzyloxycarbonylamino 2 2 hydroxy phenyl acetamido penicillanate is collected by filtration and dried in vacuo. To 74.1 g. 0.10 mole tetrabutylammonium 6 D 2 benzylOxycarbonylamino 2 p hydroxyphenyl acetamido penicillanate in 1000 ml. methylethyl ketone is added 49.8 g. 0.10 mole methylsulfonyloxymethyl 6,6 dibromopenicillanate 1,1 dioxide and the resulting mixture stirred at 500C. for one hour. The solvent is evaporated in vacuo and the residue partitioned between ethyl acetate and water. The aqueous layer is separated, washed with ethyl acetate and the combined organic layers washed with brine and dried Na2SO4 . Evaporation of ethyl acetate in vacuo affords the title compound. EXAMPLE 22 1 ,l Dioxo 6 beta bromopenicillanoyloxymethyl 6 D 2 azido 2 phenylÅacetamido penicillanate To a mixture of 0.152 g. 0.25 mmole tetrabutylammonium D 2 azido 2 phenylacetamido penicillanate and 5.0 ml. acetone was added 0.14 g. 0.25 mmole iodomethyl 6 beta bromopenicillanate l,1 dioxide.The resulting colorless mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes, the solvent evaporated in vacuo and the residue chromatographed on a column of silica gel 25 g. , eluting with 1 1 v v ethyl acetate hexane. Fractions of 6 ml. were taken at about 30 second intervals. Fractions 13 17 were combined and concentrated in vacuo to afford 0.125 g.of the desired product as a foam. 1H NMR CDCl3 ppm delta 1.4 s, 3H , 1.5 s, 3H , 1.6 s, 3H , 1.65 s, 3H , 4.42 s, 1H , 4.5 s, 1H , 4.75 d, 1H , 5.07 s, 1H , 5.3 d, 1H , 5.4 5.75 m, 2H , 5.85 s, broad, 2H , 7.1 d, 1H , 7.35 s, 5H Infrared neat cm 1 1800, 1775. EXAMPLE 23 1 ,l Dioxo 6 alpha bromopenicillanoyloxymethyl 6 D 2 azido 2 phenylacetamido penicillanate A mixture of 0.308 g. 0.5 mmole tetrabutylammonium D 2 azido 2 phenylacetamido penicil lanate, 0.219 g. 0.485 mmole iodomethyl 6 alpha bromopenicillanate l,l dioxide and 10 ml. acetone was stirred for 30 minutes at room temperature. The solvent was evaporated in vacuo and the residue chromatographed on a column of 50 g. silica gel, eluting with 1 1 v v ethyl acetate hexane. The product containing fractions were combined and the solvent evaporated in vacuo to afford 0.125 g. 38 of the title compound as an oil. 1H NMR CDC13 ppm delta 1.43 s, 3H , 1.5 s, 3H , 1.6 s, 3H , 1.66 s, 3H , 4.4 s, 2H , 4.64 d, 1H , 5.05 s, lH , 5.1 d, 1H , 5.4 5.7 m, 2H , 5.85 s, 2H , 7.08 d, 1H , 7.35 s, 5H Infrared neat cm 1 1795, 1775. EXAMPLE 24 Employing the halomethyl, alkylsulfonyloxymethyl or arylsulfonyloxymethyl esters of 6,6 dihalopenicillanic acid 1,1 dioxides or the corresponding 6 halo compounds provided in Examples 2 through 8, 12, 13 and 15 as starting material, the following compounds are prepared by the methods of Examples 16 through 23.EMI47.1 where Q, R1, Y and Z are as defined below. Q R1 y z 4 Cl C6H5CH2OCONH H C1 C1 C6H5CH2OCONH H Cl Br 3 BrC6H4CH2OCONH H Br Br 4 NO2C6H4CH2OCONH H Br I 2 CH3C6H4CH2OCONH H I I 4 CH3OC 6H4 CH2OCONH HO Cl Cl C6H 5CH2OCONH HO Cl Br 3 CH3OC H4 CH2OCONH HO Br Br 2 ClC6H4CH2OCONH HO Br IC6H5CH2OCONH HO H alpha IN3 HO H alpha BrC6H5CH 2OCONH H H alpha C1 4 NO2C6H4CH2OCONH HO H beta IN3 HO H beta BrN3 H H beta Cl. EXAMPLE 25 l,l Dioxopenicillanoyloxymethyl 6 D 2 amino 2 phenylacetamido penicillanate A mixture of 1.2 g. 5 5 palladium on calcium carbonate and 30 ml. 1 1 by volume isopropanol methylene chloride was hydrogenated at 50 psi 3.52 kg. cm.2 for 30 minutes. To this was added 0.25 g. 0.32 mmole 1 ,l dioxo 6,6 dibromopenicillanoyloxymethyl 6 D 2azido 2 phenylacetamido penicillanate dissolved in 3 ml. methylene chloride. The resulting mixture was hydrogenated at 50 psi for one hour. The catalyst was removed by filtration, washing with 30 ml. 1 1 isopropanol methylene chloride. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to afford a tan solid.This was triturated with 15 ml. ethyl ether, filtered, washed with 10 ml. ether and air dried to afford 0.195 g. of product. H NMR CDCl3 ppm delta 1.5 d, 6H , 1.6 d, 6H , 3.55 d, 2H , 4.45 s, 1H , 4.55 s, 1H , 4.6 4.75 m, 2H , 5.5 5.7 m, 2H , 5.9 q, 2H , 7.4 s, 4H , 8.1 d, 1H . EXAMPLE 26 l,l Dioxopenicillanoyloxymethyl 6 D 2 amino 2 phenylÅacetamido penicillanate hydrobromide A mixture of 0.125 g. 0.17 mmole l,1 dioxo 6 alpha bromopenicillanoyloxymethyl 6 D 2 azido 2phenylacetamido penicillanate, 10 ml. methylene chloride, 10 ml. isopropanol and 0.35 g. 10 palladiumon carbon was hydrogenated at 50 psi 3.52 kg. cm.2 for 75 minutes. The catalyst was removed by filtration and the filtrate evaporated in vacuo to afford an off white solid residue. This was triturated with ethyl ether, filtered, washing with ether and the product dried under a nitrogen atmosphere to afford 78 mg, of the title compound.The infrared spectrum and 1H NME spectrum in dimethylsulfoxide. D6 were identical to those of an authentic sample. Hydrogenation of 100 mg. of 1,l dioxo 6 beta bromopenicillanoyloxymethyl 6 D 2 azido 2 phenyl acetamido penicillanate for one hour by the above procedure gave 68 mg. of the same product. EXAMPLE 27 l,l Dioxopenicillanoyloxymethyl 6 D 2 amino 2 E hydroxyphenyl acetamido penicillanate A mixture of 1.0. g. 1,1 dioxo 6 bromo 6 chloro penicillanoyloxymethyl 6 D 2 azido 2 2 hydroxyphenyl acetamido penicillanate, 50 ml. methylene chloride, 50 ml. isopropanol, 270 mg. triethylamine and 1 g.5 palladium on carbon catalyst is shaken with 2 hydrogen at 60 psi 4.2 kg. cm. for two hours. The catalyst is removed by filtration and the filtrate washed with 3 x 50 ml. water. The washings are combined, adjusted to pH 7.5 and extracted with methylene chloride. The combined organic layers are dried MgSO4 and the solvent evaporated in vacuo to afford the crude title compound which is purified by. chromatography on silica gel. EXAMPLE 28 l,l Dioxopenicillanoyloxymethyl 6 D 2 amino 2 phenylacetamido penicillanate A. A mixture of 2.5 g. .1,l dioxo 6,6 dichl.oro penicillanoyloxymethyl 6 D 2 azido 2 phenylacetamido penicillanate, 60 ml. ethyl acetate, 20 ml. 5 w v sodium bicarbonate solution and 2.5 g. of 108 palladiumon carbon catalyst is hydrogenated with agitation at 50 psi 3. 5 kg. cm.2 until hydrogen uptake ceases.The catalyst is removed by filtration, the layers separated and the aqueous phase extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers are dried Na2SO4 and evaporated in vacuo to provide the desired product. It is purified by chromatography on silica gel. When the palladium catalyst employed above is replaced by a similar amount of nickel, platinum or rhodium catalyst similar results are obtained. B. A mixture of 3.0 g. l,1 dioxo 6 bromo 6 iodo penicillanoyloxymethyl 6 D 2 azido 2 phenylacetamido penicillanate, 75 ml. glacial acetic acid, 1.5 g.sodium acetate and one gram of 5 rhodium on carbon catalyst is hydrogenated at three atmospheres pressure. When hydrogen uptake is complete the mixture is filtered, the filtrate evaporated in vacuo, and the residue taken up in ethyl acetate and washed with water. The organic layer is dried Na2SO4 and evaporated to dryness in vacuo to afford the desired product.C. Hydrogenation of 1,1 dioxo 6,6 dibromopenicillan oyloxymethyl 6 D 2 benzyloxycarbonylamino 2 phenylacetamido penicillanate by the above procedures affords the same product. EXAMPLE 29 Hydrogenation of the compounds provided inExamples 16 24 by the procedures of Examples 25 through 28 affords compounds of the formula below in like mannerEMI52.1 where R1 is as defined in Examples 16 through 24. PREPARATION A 6 D 2 azido 2 2 hydroxy phenyl Åacetamido penicillanic Acid The method is that of Japanese Kokai 78 37,691 Chem. Abstr., 89, 109466v 1978 . To a mixture of 10 g. 6 aminopenicillanic acid and 100 ml. acetone is added dropwise at OOC. 10 g. D 2 azido 2 2 hydroxyphenyl acetic acid chloride while simultaneously adding powdered potassium bicarbonate to maintain the mixture at pH 7 S. After the addition is complete the mixture is stirred at room temperature and pH 7 8 for five hours. The reaction mixture is filtered and the filtrate evaporated in vacuo. The residue is purified by chromatography on silica gel to afford the title compound. PREPARATION B 6, 6 Dibromopenicillanic Acid To 500 ml. of dichloromethane cooled to 50C. was added 119.9 g. of bromine, 200 ml. of 2.SN sulfuric acid and 34.5 g. of sodium nitrite. To this stirred mixture was then added 54.0 g. of 6 aminopenicillanic acid, portionwise over 30 minutes, with the temperature maintained from 4 to 100C. Stirring was continued for 30 minutes at 50C., and then 410 ml. of a 1.0M solution of sodium bisulfite was added dropwise at 5 to 100C. during 20 minutes. The layers were separated and the aqueous layer was extracted twice with 150 ml. of dichloromethane. The original dichloromethane layer was combined with the two extracts to give a solution of 6,6 dibromopenicillanic acid. This solution was used directly in preparation of esters or evaporated to dryness to provide the desired product. PREPARATION C 6 Chloro 6 iodopenidillanic Acid To 100 ml. of dichloromethane cooled to 30C. was added 4.87 g. of iodine chloride, 10 ml. of 2.5 sulfuric acid and 2.76 g. of sodium nitrite. To this stirred mixture was then added 4.32 g. of 6 aminopenicillanic acid portionwise during a 15 minute period. Stirring was continued for 20 minutes at 0 5 C., and then 100 ml. of 10 sodium bisulfite solution was added dropwise at ca. 4 C. Stirring was continued for 5 minutes and the the layers were separated. The aqueous layer was extracted with . dichloromethane 2 x 50 ml. and the combined dichloromethane solutions were washed with brine, dried MgSO4 and evaporated in vacuo to give the title compound as a tan solid, m.p. 148 1520C. The NMR spectrum of the product CDC13 showed absorptions at 5.40 s, liy , 4.56 s, liy , 1.67 s, 3H and 1.50 s, 3H ppm. TheIR spectrum KBr disc showed absorptions at 1780 and 1715 cm l PREPARATION D 6 Bromo 6 iodopenicil lanic Acid To 100 ml. of dichloromethane, cooled to 50C., was added 10 ml. of 2.5N sulfuric acid, 6.21 g. of iodine bromide and 2.76 g. of sodium nitrite. To this mixture was added, with vigorous stirring, at 0 50C., over 15 minutes, 4.32 g. of 6 aminopenicillanic acid.Stirring was continued for a further 20 minutes at 0 5 C., and then 100 ml. of 10 sodium bisulfite was added dropwise between 0 and 100C. At this point, the layers were separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 3 x 50 ml. . The combined dichloromethane layers were washed with brine, dried MgSO4 and evaporated in vacuo. The residue was dried under high vacuum for 30 minutes to give 6.0 g. 72 yield of the title compound m.p. 144 1470C, The NMR spectrum CDC13 showed absorptions at 5.50 s, liy , 4.53 s, liy , 1.70 s, 3H and 1.53 s, 3H ppm. The IR spectrum XBr disc showed absorptions at 1785 and 1710 cm 1. The mass spectrum showed a prominent ion at m e 406. PREPARATION E 6 Chloro 6 bromopenicillanic Acid 6 Chloro 6 bromopenicillanic acid is prepared from 6 aminopenicillanic acid via diazotization followed by reaction with bromine chloride, according to the procedure of Preparation D.