# Method for preparing spices.

## Abstract
A method for preparing a spice or a similar material such as a crude drug comprises heat sterilizing a raw material corresponding to the spice or similar material whilst it is suspended in and carried by a stream of superheated steam flowing through a pipeline 2 . The sterilized material is then suitably pulverized 5 .

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method for preparing a spice or similar material, characterised in that a raw material corresponding to a spice or similar material is heat sterilized whilst it is suspended in and carried by a stream of superheated steam flowing through a pipeline 2 . 2. A method according to claim 1, characterised in that the raw material in its original form or coarsely crushed to 2 to 30 mesh is heat sterilized while being suspended in and carried by the stream of superheated steam flowing through a pipeline 2 , and the sterilized material is pulverized 5 . 3. A method according to claim 1 or 2, characterised in that the superheated steam is at a pressure of 3 kg cm2 gauge or less. 4. A method according to claim 3, characterised in that the superheated steam is at a pressure of 2 kg cmê gauge or less. 5. A method according to any of claims 1 to 4, characterised in that the flow rate of the superheated steam is from 10 to 30 second. 6. A method according to any of claims 1 to 5, characterised in that the heat sterilization is carried out for from 2 to 30 seconds. 7. A method according to any of claim 1 to 6, characterised in that the spice or similar material is either a spice or a crude drug. 8. A method according to claim 7, characterised in that the spice or similar material is at least one spice selected from pepper, cayenne pepper, mustard, ginger, cinnamon, cassia, laurel, allspice, clove, mace, nutmeg, turmeric, paprika, fennel, coriander, caraway, cumin, dill, cardamon, marjoram, sage, thyme, Japanese pepper, horseradish, peppermint, beefsteak plant leaf, onion and garlic. 9. A method according to claim 7 characterised in that the spice or similar material is at least one crude drug selected from licorice, rehmannia, fennel, cnidium, bitter orange peel, boxhorn, nutmeg, clove and saffron. 10. A method according to any of claims 1 to 9, characterised in that the superheated steam is at a temperature of from 1200C to 2500C. 11. A method according to claim 10, characterised in that the superheated steam is at a temperature of from 1200C to 2000C.

## Description
METHOD FOR PREPARING SPICES AND SIMILAR MATERIALS This invention relates to a method for preparing spices and similar materials and, more particularly, to a method for preparing sterilized spices and similar materials. The spices and similar materials are principally spices and crude drugs. Most of the spices and crude drugs available in Japan are imported and are treated with fumigating gases for the purpose of disinfestation. The gas fumigation aims mainly at killing insects and is not adequate for the complete inactivation of contaminant microorganisms in the product. For this reason, it is a general practice to use a sterilizing gas or vapor such as ethylene oxide or propylene oxide recently sterilization of microorganisms by an ionizing radiation is under investigation. These methods, however, present various problems in terms of the handling of sterilizing gases or the residue of radioactivity after the process, equipments, and working environment. In sterilizing raw materials for food cont.mi nated by microorganisms, it is a general practice to apply heat. However, if the. heat sterilization of conventional process is applied to the spices and the lIke, the aroma and taste, which are the soul of spices, or other active constituents tend to be lost or degraded, resulting in an adverse effect in commercial value of the product. It is the actual situation that the gas sterilization still prevails and the radiation sterilization is under way in spite of such practical problems as described above. Under the circumstances, the present inventors conducted studies on the method for sterilizing the spices and the like and, as a result, found that by heating these materials while being suspended in a stream of superheated steam, it is possible to effective sterilization in a very short period of time without causing loss or degradation in aroma and taste due to the short heating time, though the process is a kind of heat sterilization. Most of the spices and crude drugs are made of seeds, fruits, leaves, roots and barks of plants as raw materials and the contamination by microorganisms is found mostly on the surface of these raw materials. It was found that by heating the raw materials in the original form or after having been coarsely crushed to 2 to 30 meshes, thereby avoiding fine pulverization, it is possible to enhance the above effects, causing neither loss in moisture content nor formation of adhered layer on the wall of pipeline, an additional advantage is the higher efficiencykin the separation of sterilized products. It was thus possible to establish a method for preparing sterilized spices and the like, which is excellent also from the industrial viewpoint. In accompanying drawings, Figs. 1 and 2 are to illustrate embodiments of this invention Fig. 3 is a schematic drawing to illustrate a sterilizer of the fluidized bed type Fig. 4 is the crossectional view at the plane IV IV of Fig. 3. Each number in the figures denotes the following devices 1 Feeding device 2 Heating pipeline 3, 10, 19 Separators 4, 6, 20 Discharge device 5 Disintegrator 7, 15 Transfer pipings 8, 16 Microbial filters 9, 17 Blowers 11 Superheater 12 Recycle pipeline 13 Recycling blower 14 Steam pipe 18 Heater 21 Shower chamber 22 Fluidized bed chamber 23 Distribution plate 24 Raw material inlet 25 Product outlet 26 Superheated steam inlet 27 Superheated steam outlet An object of this invention is to provide a method for preparing heat sterilized spices, which minimizes loss and degradation in active constituents. Other objects and advantages of the invention will become apparent from the following description. According to this invention there is provided a method for preparing spices and similar materials, which comprises heat sterilizing spices and the like while being suspended in and carried by a stream of superheated steam flowing through a pipeline. The heat sterilization becomes more effective with the increase in surface area of the substance to be treated exposed to the heating medium. It is preferable, in this sense, that the substance to be treated has been pulverized, whereas, on the other hand, the loss or degradation in active constituents of the spices and similar materials during heating becomes larger in proportion to the degree of pulverization. In other words, with respect to the particle size the effectiveness of heat sterilization and the prevention of loss or degradation of active constituents are contradictory requirements for the successful heat sterilization of spices and similar materials.One of the features of this invention consists in answering the contradictory requirements by a simple means of heating the spices and similar materials for a very short period of time while being suspended in and carried by a stream of superheated steam. The heat sterilization is generally carried out in either of the two ways, that is, by applying dry heat or moist heat. When it is desired to obtain the sterilized product in dry form, the dry heat sterilization employing hot air or superheated steam is preferred.As compared with hot air, the superheated steam has advantages of larger heat capacity, larger sterilization efficiency, and less oxidation of the material being treated. Heat sterilization employing superheated steam in a fluidized bed or a through circulation sterilizer is known. The fluidizing sterilizer and the through circulation sterilizer, however, have disadvantages of prolonged sterilization time and non uniform heating of the material, because the flow in these types of sterilizers is not of a piston type. To the contrary, in the method of this invention in which the material is heated as suspended in a stream of superheated steam, the material fed t o the stream at a velocity of practically zero acquires velocity as it is conveyed in suspension in the stream until a velocity approximating that of the superheated steam e.g. 15 m second is reached.The large velocity difference between the material immidiately after it has been fed and the contacting superheated steam results in an increased heat transfer coefficient in the boundry film as compared with the fluidized type, and, as a consequence, permits rapid heat sterilization.Moreover, uniform heat sterilization is obtained in the present method, because the material is conveyed by the stream of superheated steam through the pipeline in the form of a dispersion of individual particles and the flow is of the piston type. The invention is described below in more details with reference to Fig. 1. The raw materials being treated according to this invention include spices such as pepper, cayenne pepper, mustard, ginger, cinnamon, cassia, laurel, allspice, clove, mace, nutmeg, turmeric, paprika, fennel, coriander, caraway, cumin, dill, cardamon, marjoram, sage, thyme, Japanese papper, horseradish, peppermint, beefsteak plant leaf, onion, and garlic crude drugs such as licorice, rehmannia, fennel, cnidium, bitter orange peel, boxhorn, nutmeg, clove, and saffron. These raw materials, in the original form or coarsely crushed to 2 to 30 mesh, are fed to heating pipeline 2 through feeding device 1. The steam from a steam generator not shown is introduced through steam pipe 14 to superheater 11 where it turns into superheated steam to be sent to heating pipeline 2. The raw material fed to heating pipeline 2 becomes suspended in the stream of superheated steam and heat sterilized while being conveyed toward the exit. The suspended sterilized material is separated in separator 3 from the superheated steam and discharged through discharge device 4. The superheated steam separated in separator 3 is recycled through recycle pipeline 12, which is connected to recycling blower 13, to superheater 11 where it is reheated. The pressure of the superheated steam being used in the present method is 3 kg cmê G or below, preferably 2 kg cm2 G or below, and the temperature is 1200 to 2500C, preferably 1200 to 2000 C, at the entrance to heating pipeline 2. The velocity of the superheated steam fed to heating pipeline 2 varies depending on the appearent dencity, shape and quantity of the raw material to be fed, but is generally about 10 to 30 m second, preferably 15 to 25 m second, and the time of heating the raw material is 2 to 30 seconds, preferably 2 to 15 seconds. The heating pipeline 2 should be thermally insulated to avoid the condensation of the superheated steam. Although the heating pipeline 2 shown in Fig. 1 is in an U shape, it can, of course, be in a straight line. The material discharged from the discharge device 4 after having been heat sterilized while being suspended in and conveyed by the superheated steam flowing through the heating pipeline 2 is pneumatically conveyed by means of blower 9, which is provided with a microbial filter 8, to disintegrator 5 to be pulverized therein. The disintegrator 5 is preferably of the highspeed rotary type such as a hammer mill or pin mill, though other types may be used. The crushed material is separated in separator 10 and discharged from discharge device 6. The crushed spices and similar materials thus obtained show a very small or substantially zero viable count and is also of excellent quality. In the above embodiment the material is in microbes free environment pulverized immediately after sterilization. It is, of course, not necessary to stick to the above procedure. For instance, the sterilized material can be temporarily stored in a hopper or the like and then pulverized. In view of the prevention of secondary contamination, it is needless to say that a more desirable product is obtained by pulverizing under aseptic conditions immediately after the sterilization. Fig. 2 represents another embodiment in which the condensation of superheated steam in disintegrator 5 is completely prevented. This particular mode of operation is suitable for the spices which easily become sticky in the presence of moisture. The material discharged from discharge device 4 is carried by the sterile hot air supplied by blower 17, which is provided with microbial filter 16 on the suction side and heater 18 on the delivery side, and introduced through transfer pipeline 15 to separator 19 when the material is completely separated from the superheated steam without condensation of the latter. The material separated from the superheated steam is further carried by the sterile air from blower 9 provided with microbial filter 8 and introduced through transfer pipeline 7 to disintegrator 5.The pulverized sterile material is collected in separator 10 and discharged from product discharge device 6. As described above in detail, according to this invention, the spices and similar materials contaminated with microorganisms may be sterilized with minimal loss or degradation of active constituents by a simple procedure of heat sterilizing the raw materials in original form or after coarse crushing to 2 to 30 mesh, while being suspended in a stream of superheated steam flowing through a pipeline, and then pulverizing the sterilized material. As compared with the conventional gas sterilization or ionized radiation sterilization, the present method is much simpler to operate in a practical working environment. The invention is illustrated below with reference to Examples, but the invention is not necessarily limited thereto.Example 1 A quantity of 1,000 kg of white pepper in original form 4 8 mesh was heat sterilized at a feeding rate of 200 kg hour and immediately pulverized in the following manner. Through a pipeline, 2.5 inches in diameter and 15 m long, was allowed superheated steam to flow at a velocity of 15 m second at a pressure of 1 kg cmê G and a temperature of 1800C as measured at the region where the raw material was fed . The raw material was sterilized for 5 seconds while the material being suspended in and carried by the stream of superheated steam, and immediately thereafter was pulverized aseptically in a high speed impact mill provided with 0.6 mm screen to obtain powdered white pepper, 90 by weight of which had a particle size of 30 to 100 mesh sample No. 1 . Another powdered white pepper was prepared by repeating the above procedure, except that the original white pepper from the same lot as used above was pulverized in advance so that 90 by weight of the raw material may have a particle size of 30 to 100 mesh sample No. 22. For comparison, the same white pepper raw materials in original form and after crushing as used in preparing samples No. 1 and No. 2 were sterilized in a fluidized sterilization apparatus see Fig. 3 provided with a distributor of 1 x 5 mm perforated plate, through which superheated steam was introduced at a superficial velocity of 50 cm second in the column under the conditions shown in Table 1. There were obtained powdered white pepper samples. Being apparent from Table 1, the samples No. 1 and No. 2 obtained according to this invention showed a general viable count of zero and an intensity of aroma substantially as good as that of the untreated sample.In contrast to these samples, those control samples No.1 and No. 2 obtained by use of a fluidized sterilization apparatus showed a general viable count number g of 3 X 10ê or 4 X 10ê in spite of a heating time of 60 or 120 seconds and the intensity of aroma was low due to a loss in aromatic constituents caused by prolonged heating time. Tablel EMI11.1 tb SEP Heating SEP conditions SEP General SEP Mois SEP Yield SEP Sensory SEP test SEP tb SEP viable SEP count, SEP ture tb SEP Sample SEP Press. SEP Temp. SEP Time SEP number g SEP SEP SEP Ranking tb SEP white SEP kg cm2 SEP C SEP sec. SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 5 tb SEP pepper SEP G tb Before tb SEP SEP SEP SEP 1.6 SEP x SEP 105 SEP 13.5 SEP 100 SEP 10 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb treatment tb Sample SEP No. SEP 1 tb SEP 1 SEP 165 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 12.0 SEP 97.5 SEP 4 SEP 10 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb original tb Sample SEP No. SEP 2 tb SEP 1 SEP 165 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 5.4 SEP 84.3 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 11 SEP 1 SEP 0 tb crushed tb Control SEP No. SEP 1 tb SEP 1 SEP 165 SEP 120 SEP 4.6 SEP x SEP 102 SEP 9.6 SEP 92.3 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 11 SEP 3 tb original tb Control SEP No. SEP 2 tb SEP 1 SEP 165 SEP 60 SEP 3.5 SEP x SEP 102 SEP 6.2 SEP 84.2 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 12 tb crushed tb Note Sensory test 1 g of each sample was diluted with 100 ml of water and the intensity of aroma was evaluated by a panel of 15 members using the method of ranking. The figure given in the table is the number of members. Example 2 By using the apparatus shown in Fig. 2, 1,000 kg of ginger coarsely crushed to 10 to 20 mesh was sterilized at a feeding rate of 200 kg hour in the following manner and immediately thereafter was pulverized. Through a pipeline, 2.5 inches in diameter and 15 m long, was allowed superheated steam to flow at a velocity of 15 m second at a pressure of 2 kg cmê G and a temperature of 1900 C, as measured at the region where the raw material was fed. The raw material was sterilized for 5 seconds while being suspended in and carried by the stream of superheated steam, and immediately thereafter was pulverized in a high speed impact mill provided with 0.5 mm screen to obtain a ginger powder, 90 by weight of which had a particle size of 30 to 100 mesh sample No. 1 . Another ginger powder was prepared by repeating the above procedure, except that the original ginger from the same lot as used above was pulverized in advance so that 90 by weight of the raw material may have a particle size of 30 to 100 mesh sample No. 2 . For comparison, the same raw materials the one coarsely crushed to 10 to 20 mesh and the other pulverized to 30 to 100 mesh as used in preparing samples No. 1 and No. 2 were sterilized in the same fluidized sterilization apparatus as used in Example 1.The test results were as shown in Table 2. Table 2 EMI13.1 SEP Heating SEP conditions SEP General SEP Mois SEP Sensory SEP test tb SEP Sample SEP viable SEP ture SEP Yield tb SEP Press. SEP Temp. SEP Time SEP count SEP Ranking tb SEP ginger SEP SEP SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 5 tb SEP kg cmêG SEP C SEP sec. SEP number g tb Before tb SEP SEP SEP SEP 1.5 SEP x SEP 107 SEP 14.6 SEP 100 SEP 9 SEP 6 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb treatment tb Sample SEP No. SEP 1 tb coarsely SEP 2 SEP 170 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 13.4 SEP 97.2 SEP 4 SEP 6 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP crushed tb Sample SEP No. SEP 2 tb SEP 2 SEP 170 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 6.3 SEP 88.5 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 10 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb pulverized tb Control SEP No. SEP 1 tb coarsely SEP 2 SEP 170 SEP 120 SEP 5.4 SEP x SEP 103 SEP 11.3 SEP 96.5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 12 SEP 3 tb SEP crushed tb Control SEP No. SEP 2 tb SEP 2 SEP 170 SEP 60 SEP 3.2 SEP x SEP 102 SEP 7.5 SEP 85.7 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 12 tb pulverized tb Example 3 Various spices were prepared by repeating the procedure described in Example 1, except that various spice raw materials and various heating conditions were used as shown in Table 3. The test results were as shown also in Table 3. Table 3 EMI15.1 SEP Before SEP treatment SEP Heating SEP conditions SEP After SEP treatment tb SEP General SEP General tb SEP Sample SEP viable SEP Mois SEP Press. SEP Temp. SEP Time SEP viable SEP Mois SEP count SEP ture SEP C SEP sec. SEP count SEP ture tb SEP number g SEP SEP kg cmêG SEP number g SEP tb Black SEP pepper SEP original SEP form SEP 1.6 SEP x SEP 105 SEP 13.5 SEP 2 SEP 135 SEP 5 SEP 2.6 SEP x SEP 102 SEP 12.9 tb Allspice SEP SEP SEP SEP 7.2 SEP x SEP 105 SEP 10.4 SEP 2 SEP 150 SEP 5 SEP 1.8 SEP x SEP 102 SEP 9.8 tb Coriander SEP coarsely SEP crushed SEP 1.2 SEP x SEP 105 SEP 9.3 SEP 2 SEP 160 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 6.7 tb Sage SEP SEP SEP SEP 6.4 SEP x SEP 104 SEP 13.7 SEP 2 SEP 165 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 7.2 tb Nutmeg SEP SEP SEP SEP 1.6 SEP x SEP 103 SEP 10.2 SEP 2 SEP 160 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 9.7 tb Black SEP pepper SEP SEP SEP SEP 1.6 SEP x SEP 104 SEP 12.3 SEP 1 SEP 140 SEP 5 SEP 8.8 SEP x SEP 102 SEP 8.8 tb White SEP pepper SEP pulverized SEP 1.6 SEP x SEP 105 SEP 13.4 SEP 1 SEP 140 SEP 5 SEP 3.0 SEP x SEP 102 SEP 7.3 tb Ginger SEP SEP SEP SEP 1.5 SEP x SEP 107 SEP 13.7 SEP 1 SEP 145 SEP 5 SEP 2.8 SEP x SEP 102 SEP 6.3 tb Paprika SEP SEP SEP SEP 7.2 SEP x SEP 106 SEP 9.5 SEP 1 SEP 140 SEP 5 SEP 8.0 SEP x SEP 10 SEP 8.4 tb Red SEP pepper SEP SEP SEP SEP 1.6 SEP x SEP 104 SEP 11.7 SEP 1 SEP 140 SEP 5 SEP 4.6 SEP x SEP 102 SEP 7.3 tb