# Bis esters of 1,1 alkanediols with 6 beta hydroxymethylpenicillanic acid 1,1 dioxide and beta lactam antibiotics.

## Abstract
Novel bis Esters of 1,1 alkanediols with 6 beta hydroxymethyl penicillanic acid 1,1 dioxide and 6 betaacylaminopenicillanic acids are useful as antibacterial agents. Novel intermediates useful for the preparation of these compounds include haloalkyl, alkylsulfonyloxyalkyl and arylsulfonyloxyalkyl esters of 6 beta hydroxy methyl penicillanic acid and its 1 oxide and 1,1 dioxide 6 beta aminopenicillanoyloxyalkyl and 6 beta N protected D 2 amino 2 phenylacetamido and 2 4 hydroxy phenyl acetamido penicillanoyloxyalkyl esters of 6 beta hydroxymethyl penicillanic acid 1,1 dioxide and haloalkyl, alkylsulfonyloxyalkyl and arylsulfonyloxyalkyl esters of the 6 bromo 6 hydroxymethyl penicillanic acids.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A compound of the formulaEMI38.1 and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, wherein R is amino,2 phenylacetamido, 2 phenoxyacetamido, D 2 amino 2 phenylacetamido, D 2 amino 2 4hydroxyphenyl acetamido, 2 carboxy 2 phenylacetamido, 2 carboxy 2 2 thienyl acetamido, 2 carboxy 2 3thienyl acetamido, D 2 4 ethyl 2,3 dioxopiperazinocarbonyl amino 2 phenylacetamido, 2,2 dimethyl 4 phenyl 5 imidazolidinon l yl or the D form ofEMI38.2 wherein Y is hydrogen or hydroxy and Z is azido, benzyloxvcarbonylamino or l carbomethoxy l propen 2 ylamino and R is hydrogen or methyl. 2. A compound of claim 1 wherein R is hydrogen andR is D 2 amino 2 phenylacetamido, 2 carboxy 2 phenylacetamido, D 2 amino 2 4 hydroxvphenyl acetamido or 2 phenyl acetamido. 3. A compound of claim 7 wherein R is hydrogen and R is amino, the D form ofEMI39.1 or the D form ofEMI39.2 4. A compound of the formulaEMI39.3 wherein n is zero or an integer of value 1 or 2 R is hydrogen or methyl and X is chloro, bromo, iodo, C1 C4 alkylsulfonyloxy, benzenesulfonyloxy or toluenesulfonyloxy. 5. The compound of claim 4 wherein R is hydrogen, n is zero and X is chloro. 6. The compound of claim 4 wherein R is hydrogen, n is 1 and X is chloro. 7. A compound of claim 4 wherein R is hydrogen, n is 2 and X is chloro or iodo. 8. A compound of the formulaEMI40.1 wherein R is hydrogen or methyl and X is chloro, bromo, iodo, C1 C4 alkylsulfonyloxy, benzenesulfonyloxy or toluenesulfonyloxy. 9. The compound of the formulaEMI40.2 10. A pharmaceutical composition suitable for treating a bacterial infection in a mammalian subject which comprises a unit dosage amount of a compound as claimed in claim 1 other than those in which R is amino or the Dform ofEMI40.3 as therein defined or claim 2, together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Claims for Austria 1. A method of preparing a compound of the formulaEMI41.1 and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, wherein R is amipo,2 phenylacetamido, 2 phenoxyacetamido, D 2 amino 2 phenylacetamido, D 2 amino 2 4 hydroxyphenyl acetamido, 2 carboxy 2 phenylacetamido, 2 carboxy 2 2 thienyl acetamido, 2 carboxy 2 3 thienyl acetamido, D 2 4 ethyl 2, 3 dioxopiperazinocarbonyl amino 2 phenylacetamido, 2,2 dimethyl 4 phenyl 5 imidazolidinon l yl or the D form ofEMI41.2 wherein Y is hydrogen or hydroxy and Z is azido, benzyloxycarbonylamino or l carbomethoxy l propen 2 ylamino and R is hydrogen or methyl which comprises reacting a compound of the formulaEMI41.3 where M is a carboxylate salt forming cation and X is chloro, bromo, iodo, C1 C4 alkylsulfonyloxy, benzenesulfonyloxy or toluenesulfonyloxy, with a compound of the formulaEMI42.1 respectively, and, if desired, a hydrogenolyzing the product to remove any N protecting group b acylating a product in which R is amino and or c converting the product to a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof or reacting with acetone. 2. A method of preparing a compound of the formulaEMI42.2 in which n is O, 1 or 2, and R and X are as defined in claim 1 which comprises debromination of a compound of the formulaEMI42.3 and, if desired, oxidising to a compound in which n is 1 or 2. 3. A method of preparing a compound of the formulaEMI43.1 which comprises reacting a compound of the formulaEMI43.2 in which R and X are as defined in claim 1, with formaldehyde and tert butylmagnesium chloride at a temperature below 65 C in a suitable solvent.

## Description
Bis Esters of l,l Alkanediols with 6 beta Hydroxymethylpenicillanic Acid l,l Dioxide and beta Lactam Antibiotics One of the most well known and widely used class of antibacterial agents are the so called beta lactam antibiotics. These compounds are characterized in that they have a nucleus consisting of a 2 azetidinone heta lactam ring fused to a thiazolidine, a dihydro 1,3 thiazine or other similar ring system. When the nucleus contains a thiazolidine ring, the compounds are usually referred to generically as penicillins, whereas when the nucleus contains a dihydrothiazine ring, the compounds are referred to as cephalosporins.Typical examples of penicillins which are commonly used in clinical practice are benzylpenicillin penicillin G , phenoxymethylpenicillin penicillin V , ampicillin, amoxicillin, hetacillin and carbenicillin typical examples of common cephalosporins are cephalothin, cephalexin and cefazolin. However, despite the wide use and wide acceptance of the beta lactam antibiotics as valuable chemotherapeutic agents, they suffer from the major drawback that certain members are not active against certain microorganisms.It is thought that in many instances this resistance of a particular microorganism to a given beta lactam antibiotic results because the microorganism produces a beta lactamase.The latter substances are enzymes which cleave the betalactam ring of penicillins and cephalosporins to give products which are devoid of antibacterial activity.However, certain substances have the ability to inhibit beta lactamases, and when a beta lactamase inhibitor is used in combination with a penicillin or cephalosporin, it can increase or enhance the antibacterial effectiveness of the penicillin or cephalosporin against certain betalactamase producing microorganisms. It is considered that there is an enhancement of antibacterial effectiveness when the antibacterial activity of a combination of a beta lactamase inhibiting substance and a betalactam antibiotic is significantly greater than the sum of the antibacterial activities of the individual components against beta lactamase producing microorganisms. The present invention relates to a series of bis1,1 alkanediol esters of 6 beta hydroxymethy,l penici lanic acid l,l dioxide and penicillins commonly used in clinical practice. These esters are readily hydrolyzed in vivo to yield the penicillin and 6 beta hydroxymethyl penicillanic acid 1,1 dioxide, a particularly potent inhibitor of microbial beta lactamases which enhances the effectiveness of the penicillin. The invention further relates to intermediates useful in the preparation of these 1,1 alkanediol esters. Bis esters of beta lactam antibiotics and betalactamase inhibiting substances have been the subject of earlier reports, in particular the bis 1,1 alkanediol esters of beta lactam antibiotics and penicillanic acid 1,1 dioxide British Patent Application 2,044,255 andU.S. Patent 4,244,951 . However, the present compounds show a broader spectrum of activity than these earlier compounds, for example showing a high level of activity against beta lactamase producing strains of Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Enterobacter cloacal, organisms against which the earlier compounds show little or no activity. Particularly valuable antibacterial compounds of the present invention are of the formulaEMI3.1 including the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, wherein R is 2 phenylacetamido, 2 phenoxyacetamido, D 2 amino 2 phenylacetamido, D 2 amino 2 4 hydroxy phenyl acetamido, 2 carboxy 2 phenylacetemido, 2 carboxy 2 2 thienyl acetamido, 2 carboxy 2 3 thienyl acetamido, D 2 4 ethyl 2,3 dioxopiperazinocarbonylamino 2 phenylacetamido or 2, 2 dimethyl 4 phenyl 5 imidazo lidinon l yl and R is hydrogen or methyl. The expression pharmaceutically acceptable salts 1 is intended to encompass pharmaceutically acceptable cation salts when the side chain R contains a carboxy group, and pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts when the side chain R contains an amino group. Of the compounds 1 , those compounds wherein R is hydrogen are preferred. Within this subgenus, the species most preferred are those wherein R is D 2 amino 2 phenylacetamido 2 carboxy 2 phenylacetamido D 2 amino 2 4 hydroxyphenyl acetamido and 2 phenylacetamido. Particularly valuable intermediates of the present invention are compounds of the formulaEMI4.1 wherein R is hydrogen or methyl and Rll is amino or the D form ofEMI4.2 wherein Y is hydrogen or hydroxy and Z is azido7 benzyloxycarbonylamino or l carbomethoxy l propen 2 ylamino. Within this class of intermediates the preferred compounds have R as hydrogen within this subgenus the most preferred compounds are those wherein R is amino D 2 azido 2 phenylacetamido or D 2 ,benzyloxycarbonylamino 2 p hydroxyphenyl acetamido. Other valuable intermediates are of the formulaEMI5.1 wherein n is zero or an integer of value 1 or 2 R is hydrogen or methyl and X is chloro, bromo, iodo, C1 C4 alkylsulfonyloxy, benzenesulfonyloxy or toluenesulfonyloxy. In this series preferred compounds haveR as hydrogen. Within this subgenus the most preferred compounds have n as O and X as chloro n as 1 and X as chloro n as 2 and X as chloro and n as 2 and X as iodo. Yet other valuable intermediates are of the formulaeEMI6.1 wherein Rl is hydrogen or methyl and X is chloro, bromo, iodo, C1 C4 alkylsuifonyloxy, benzenesulfonyloxy or toluenesulfonyloxy. The preferred compound in this series is of the formula 4a and has R as hydrogen and X as chloro. Also encompassed by the present invention are pharmaceutical compositions of the antibacterial compounds of, the formula 1 suitable for treating a bacterial infection in a mammalian subject. The present compounds can be dosed either parenterally or orally, but are particularly advantageous when given via the oral route. Further encompassed by the present invention is a method for treating bacterial infections in a mammal which comprises aiministering to said mammal an antibacterially effective amount of an antibacterial compound of the formula 1 . The preferred route of administration for said treatment is oral.The compounds are well absorbed and are hydrolyzed in vivo to the penicillin antibiotic and the beta lactamase inhibitor, which then strongly potentiates the activity of the penicillin against a particularly broad spectrum of pathogenic organisms This invention relates to derivatives of 6 beta hydroxymethyl penicillanic acid 1,1 dioxide, which is represented by the following structural formulaEMI7.1 In formula 6 , broken line attachment of a subsituent to the bicyclic nucleus indicates that the substituent is below the plane of the bicyclic nucleus. Such a substituent is said to be in the alpha configuration. Conversely, heavy line attachment of a substituent to the bicyclic nucleus indicates that the substituent is attached above the plane of the nucleus. This latter configuration is referred to as the beta configuration. Using this system, the compounds of formulae 1 and 2 are named as 6 beta substituted derivatives of 1 penicillanoxyloxy alkyl 6 beta hydroxymethyl penicillanate l ,l dioxide 7 , in which the 1 position of the alkyl group and the l position of the first ring system is unambiguous under the nomenclature system, but in which primed and unprimed locants are used to distinguish between the two ring systems, viz EMI8.1 In one method of the present invention certain compounds of formulae 1 and 2 are prepared by reacting a carboxylate salt of the formulaEMI8.2 with a compound of the formulaEMI8.3 wherein R and X are as previously defined R is 2 phenylacetamido, 2 phenoxyacetamido, D 2 4 ethyl 2, 3 dioxopiperazinocarbonylamino 2 phenylacetamido 2, 2 dimethyl 4 phenyl 5 imidazolidinon l yl, 2 benzyl oxycarbonyl 2 2 thienyl acetamido, benzyloxycarbonylamino, orEMI9.1 wherein Y and Z are as defined above and M is a carboxylate salt forming cation.A variety of cations can be used to form the carboxylate salt in the compound of formula 8 , but salts which are commonly used include alkali metal salts, such as sodium and potassium salts alkaline earth metal salts, such as calcium and barium salts tertiary amine salts, such as trimethylamine, triethylamine, tibutylamine, diisopropylethylamine, N methylmorpholine, N methylpiperidine, N methylpyrrolidine, N,N dimethylpiperazine and 1,2,3, tetra hydroquinoline and quaternary ammonium salts such as tetrabutylammonium salts. The quaternary ammonium salts are preferred salts, since the reaction between compounds of the formulae 8 and 9 is unusually rapid and degradation of the beta lactams is thereby kept to an absolute minimum. Said reaction between a compound of formula 8 and a compound of formula 9 is usually carried out by contacting the reagents in a polar, organic solvent, at a temperature in the range from about 0 to about 80G C., and preferably from 0 to 350 C The compounds of formulae. 8 and 9 are usually contacted in substantially equimolar proportions, but an excess of either reagent, for example up to a ten fold excess, can be used. A wide variety of solvents can be used, but it is usually advantageous to use a relatively polar solvent, since this has the effect of speeding up the reaction.A low boiling solvent, readily removed by vacuum stripping is also preferred. Typical solvents which can be used include acetone, N,N dimethylformamide, N,N dimethyl zcetamide and N methylpyrrolidone. The reaction time varies according to a number of factors, but at about 250 C. reaction times of a few minutes to several hours, e.g., 12 to 24 hours, are commonly used, depending particularly on the values of M and X. When M is quaternary ammonium e.g., tetrabutylammonium and X is iodo, advantageously short reaction times e.g., 3 30 minutes can generally be used. Reactions are conveniently monitored by standard silica gel thin layer chromatographic methods, specifically exemplified below.When X is chloro or bromo, it is sometimes advantageous to add up to about one molar equivalent of an alkali metal iodide, which has the effect of speeding up the reaction. It will be evident from the above discussion that when the desired antibacterial compound 1 contains a carboxy group or an amino group, a protected or precursor form of the carboxy or amino group is employed. Conveniently these are such groups as a benzyl ester of the carboxy group benzyloxycarbonyl , an azido group, or a benzyloxycarbonylamino carbobenzoxyamino group which are readily hydrogenolyzed, respectively, to carboxy, amino and amino.These hydrogenolyses are carried out by methods well known in the art, viz., hydrogenation over an appropriate catalyst, such as palladium, platinum, or rhodium, optionally on a carrier such as carbon, calcium carbonate, or alumina, in an inert solvent, in such manner that degradation is minimized. Thus conditions are preferably nearneutral at ambient temperature or lower, and conveniently, at low to moderate pressure e.g., 1 to 7 atmospheres . Higher pressures, e.g., up to 70 atmospheres, can be used but offer no advantage. By inert solvent is meant one which will finitely solubilize the starting material, without significantly reacting with starting material s , product s or reagent s in this case hydrogen and catalyst . The preferred solvents for the hydrogenolysis are also those which are volatile and in which product is also soluble, so that product can be recovered by simple evaporation in vacuo or freeze drying, as appropriate of the filtrate after recovery of catalyst. The preferred catalyst for the present hydrogenolysis is palladium on carbon.Optimal conditions e.g., time, level of catalyst, batch cf catalyst for the hydrogenolysis of any given compound of the present invention are readily determined by monitoring with thinlayer chromatography, using methods as detailed in specific Examples. The starting compounds of the formula 8 are well known in the penicillin art, either in the form of the free acids or in the form of various metal salts. The preferred salts i.e., the quaternary ammonium salts, of the compounds of formula 8 are readily prepared by reaction of a molar equivalent of the corresponding quaternary ammonium hydroxide with the free acid form of 8 in a two phase, asueous organic system. The quaternary salt is isolated by simple evaporation of the organic layer thus, a ow boiling solvent such as methylene chloride is preferred. The starting compounds of the formula 9 are conveniently prepared from 6,6 dibromopenicillanic acid according to methods detailed in the specific Examples below, employing intermediates of the formulae 3 , a and 4b depicted above. A variation of the foregoing method of preparing a compound of formula 7 involves reaction of a compound of the formulaEMI12.1 with a compound of the formula 11 EMI12.2 wherein R , R , M and X are as defined previously, employing reaction conditions as defined above for the reverse reaction. In this case when X is chloro, bromo, or iodo, the starting esters 11 are prepared by reaction of the corresponding metal salt with ICE2X wherein Xl is chloro, bromo or iodo, and when X is C1 4 alkyl sulfonyloxy, benzenesulfonyloxy or toluenesulfonyloxy, by reaction with the appropriate reactant CH2 0S02R 2 wherein R is methyl, p tolyl, phenyl or n butyl. Said reactants, if not known, are prepared as described byEmmons et al., J. Am. Chem. Soc. 75, 2257 1953 . The starting compound 10 is prepared by hydrogenolysis of benzyl 6 beta hydroxymethyl penicillanate 1,1dioxide which in. turn is derived drom 6,6 dibromopenicillanate according to methods detailed in specificExamples 1 3 below. In yet another method according to the present invention, compounds of the formula 7 are prepared by acylation of the compound of the formulaEMI13.1 using a variety of methods well known in the penicillin art. For example, compound 12 is reacted with essentially one equivalent of an acid chloride such as phenylacetyl chloride, phenoxyacetyl chloride, or the mono acid chloride of phenylmalonic acid to yield, respectively and directly, compounds of the formula 1 wherein R is 2 phenylacetamido, 2 phenoxyacetamido or 2 carboxy 2 phenylacetamido. The reaction is conveniently carried out in an anhydrous organic solvent in the presence of a molar equivalent of a tert amine such as triethylamine or N methylmorpholine. Many solvents are suitable, but low boiling solvents such as methylene chloride or acetone are preferred.As a further Example, the amine 12 is coupled with the appropriate acid using standard mixed anhydride procedures or dehydrating agents such as carbodiimide, again using conditions, reagents and methodology well known in the penicillin art. The hetacillin analogs, i.e., the compounds of the formula 1 wherein R is 2,2 dimethyl 4 phenyI 5 imidazo lidinon l yl, are alternatively prepared by allowing the ampicillin analog, i.e., the compound of the formula 1 wherein R is D 2 amino 2 phenylacetamido, to stand in acetone at ambient temperature for 2 3 days. The pharmaceutically acceptable cationic salts of those compounds of the present invention having a free carboxylic acid group are readily prepared by standard methods. For example, an equivalent of the corresponding cationic hydroxide, carbonate or bicarbonate is combined with the carboxylic acid in an organic cr aqueous solvent. The salt is isolated by concentration and or the addition of a non solvent If desired, the salt can generally be isolated directly from a reaction mixture, without isolation of the free acid form. Pharmaceutically acceptable cationic salts include, but are not limited to, those formed with sodium, potassium, calcium, N,N dibenzylethylenediamine, N methylglucamine and diethanolamine. The pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts of those compounds of the present invention having a free amino group are also readily prepared by standard methods. For example, an equivalent of the acid is combined with amine in an organic or an aqueous solvent.The salt is isolated by concentration and or the addition of a non solvent. If desired, the salt can generally be isolated directly from a reaction mixture, without isolation of the free amine. Pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts include, but are not limited to, hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid, nitric acid, phosphoric acid, citric acid, maleic acid, succinic acid, p toluenesulfonic acid and methanesulfonic acid. The utility of bis ester compounds of the formula 1 is as exceptionally broad spectrum, systemic antibacterial agents. These compounds are useful clinically in the treatment of mammalian infections caused by any one of this broad spectrum of sensitive bacteria. The systemic utility of these compounds results from their in vivo hydrolysis to the mixture of penicillin antibiotic and, the potent beta lactamase inhibitor, viz., 6 beta hydroxymethyl penicillanic acid l,l dioxide of the formula 6 . The ultimate clinical utility of the bis ester compounds against particular pathogenic bacteria is reflected by in vitro me2surements of the activity of the compound 6 against bacterially derived betalactamases, as well as by measuring the minimum inhibitory concentrations of a 1 1 combination of the penicillin with the beta lactamase inhibitory compound. 6 . The detailed description and typical results of such studies follows. The compounds of the present invention are thus evaluated in vitro by the ability of the compound 13 to inhibit the hydrolysis of certain beta lactam antibiotics by beta lactamase enzymes. The hydrolysis of ampicillin and penicillin G was determined by the microiodometric method of Novick Biochem, J. 83, 236 1962 1. Conditions for this assay are 0.5 M potassium phosphate, pH 6.5 and 370 C. Reactions were initiated by the addition of the cell free beta lactamase, except in the case of preincubation experiments in which the inhibitor and enzyme were incubated together in the assay mixture for 10 minutes before initiation of the reaction by addition of substrate.With the cell free extracts of S taphylococcus aurexis, Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae and Pseudomonas aeruginosa, the substrate was ampicillin at 33 micro M 13 microg. ml . Typical specific activities of the beta lactamase preparations were, respectively, 6,019, 88,970 260 and 76 micromol hr. per mg. of protein. Penicillin G 33 micromol was the substrate used with the Enterobacter cloacae betalactamase, which showed a typical specific activity of 10,080 micromol hr. per mg of protein. Cell free extracts were prepared by sonic treatment using three 30 s bursts at 40 C. except for S. aureus, which was broken with a French press of cultures grown in brain heart infusion on a rotary shaker incubator.For the S. aureus, P. aeruginose, and E. cloacae strains, de novo synthesis of beta 1actamae was induced by growing a log phase culture in the presence of a sublethal concentration of penicillin G at 100, 1,000, and 300 microg. l, respectively, for 2.5 hr. The beta lactamase inhibiting activities of the compound 6 and.of sodium penicillanic acid l,l dioxide are summarized in Table I. Especially noteworthy is the activity of compound A against beta lactamase producing strains of Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Enterobacter cloacae against which the earlier beta lactamase inhibitor, penicillanic acid l,l dioxiae, shows at best a low order of activity. Table I Activity of Compounds As Inhibitors of Cell Free Beta Lactamases A.. 6 beta Hydroxymethyl penicillanic acid 1,1dioxide as calcium salt . B. Penicillanic acid l,l dioxide as sodium salt Inhibition Source of Antibiotic Inhibitor Beta Lactam Beta Lactamsase conc. A B conc. HydrolysisStaphylococcus Ampicillin aureus 01A400 33 pM A 66 pM 98.3 16.5 78.8 .0 39.3 B 66 100 16.5 95 1.0 0Escherichia Ampicillin coli 51A129 33 pM A 66 100 16.5 100 1.0 95.7 0.67 92.1 B 66 100 16.5 100 1.0 97.0 Klebsiella Ampicillin pneumoniae 33 pM A 66 100 53A129 16.5 100 1.0 81.2 B 66 100 16.5 100 Table I continued Inhibition Source of Antibiotic Inhibitor Beta LactamBeta Lactamsase , conc. A B conc. HydrolysisPseudomonas Penicillin G aeruginosa 33 pt1 A 66 M 98.8 52A104 16.5 93.4 1.0 21.7 B 66 0 Ampicillin 33 M B 66 27.5 13.5 5.0Enterobacter Penicillin G cloacae 67B009 33 siM A 66 77.0 16.5 5 52.0 1.0 11.4 B 66 0 16.5 0 1.0 0 66a 26 a Preincubation see text The in vitro activity of the compounds of the present invention is demonstrated by measuring the minimum inhibitory concentrations MIC s in mcg ml of compound 6 together with the penicillin against a variety of microorganisms. The procedure which is followed is the one recommended by the International Collaborative Study onAntibiotic Sensitivity Testing tEriccson and Sherris,Acta.Pathologica et Microbiologia Scandinav, Supp. 217,Sections A and B 64 68 1971 , and employs brain heart infusion BHI agar and the inocula replicating device. Overnight growth tubes are diluted 100 fold for use as the standard inoculum 20,000 10,000 cells in approximately 0.002 ml are placed on the agar surface 20 ml of BHI agar dish . Twelve 2 fold dilution of the test compound are employed, with initial concentration of the test drug being 200 mcg ml. Single colonies are disregarded when reading tubes after 18 hrs. at 370 C.The susceptibility MIC of the test organism is accepted as the lowest concentration of compound capable of producing complete inibition of growth as judged by the naked eye. The manner in which the said compounds of the formula B increase the effectiveness of a beta lactam antibiotic can be appreciated by reference to experiments in which the MIC of a given antibiotic alone, and a compound of the formula 6 alone, are measured. TheseMIC s are then compared with the MIC values obtained with a combination of the given antibiotic and the compound of the formula 6 . When the antibacterial potency of the combination is significantly greater than would have been predicted from the potencies of the individual compounds, this is considered to constitute enhancement of activity.The MIC values of combinations are measured using the method described by Barry andSabath in Manual of Clinical Microbiology , edited byLenette, Spaulding and Truant, 2nd Edition, 1974, AmericanSociety for Microbiology. Results of experiments illustrating that the compound of the formula 6 enhances the effectiveness of ampicillin are reported in Table II. For purposes of comparison data on the earlier beta lactamase inhibitor, penicillanic acid l,l dioxide, are included. The enhanced spectrum and potency synergy or pronounced synergy of compound 6 will be noted. Table II MIC Values for 1 1 Mixtures of Ampicillin and beta Lactamase InhibitorsC. 6 beta Hydroxymethyl penicillanic acid l,1 Dioxides sodium salt D. Penicillanic acid l,l dioxide sodium salt E. Ampicillin MIC Values Responsea MIC Values Responses Microorganism D 1 1D E D C l lC E C aureus 01A005 100 0.2 NT 200 0.39 AT Staphylococcus aureus 01A400 200 3.12 PS 200 3.12 PSEscherichia coli 51A266 25 3.12 N 50 3.12 N C itrobacter versus 70C031 200 12.5 PS 200 25 PSEscherichia coli R 5lA129 200 100 A 50 12.5 SPseudomonas aeruginosa 52Al04 200 100 NT 200 100 S Klebsiella pneumoniae 53A079 50 12.5 S 50 6.25 PSProteus morgani 57G001 200 12.5 PS 200 1.56 PSSerratia marcescens 63A095 200 6.25 PS 200 6.25 PSEnterobacter cloacae 67B009 100 25 S 100 12.5 PS a PS Pronounced Synergy S Synergy A Additive N Nothing AT Antagonism NT No Test When using an antibacterial compound of this invention in a mammal, particularly man, the compound can be administered alone, or it can be mixed with other antibiotic substances and or pharmaceuticallyacceptable carriers or diluents. Said carrier or diluent is chosen on the basis of the intended mode of administration. For example, when considering the preferred oral mode of administration, an antibacterial compound of this invention can be used in the form of tablets, capsules, lozenges, troches, powders, syrups, elixirs, aqueous solutions and suspensions, and the like, in accordance with standard pharmaceutical practice.The proportional ratio of active ingredient to carrier will naturally depend on the chemical nature, solubility and stability of the active ingredient, as well as the dosage contemplated. In the case of tablets for oral use, carriers which are commonly used include lactose, sodium citrate and salts o phosphoric acid. Various disintegrants such as starch, and lubricating agents, sucn as magnesium stearate, sodium lauryl sulfate and talc, are commonly usea in tablets. For oral administra tion in capsule form, useful diluents are lactose and high molecular weight polyethylene glycols, e.g., polyethylene glycols having molecular weights of from 2000 to 4000.When aqueous suspensions are required for oral use, the active ingredient is combined with emulsifying and suspending agents If desired, certain sweetening and or flavoring agents can be added. As indicated earlier, the antibacterial compounds of this invention are of use in human subjects and the daily dosages to be used will not differ significantly from other, clinically used, penicillin antibiotics. The prescribing physician will ultimately determine the appropriate dose for a given human subject, and this can be expected to vary according to the age, weight, and response of the individual patient as well as the nature and the severity of the patient s symptoms. The compounds of this invention will normally be used orally and parenterally at dosages in the range from about 5 to about 100 mg per kilogram of body weight per day, usually in divided doses. In some instances it may be necessary to use doses outside these ranges. The present invention is illustrated by the following examples. However, it should be understood that the invention is not limited to the specific details of these examples. EXAMPLE 1 Chloromethyl 6, 6 Dibromopenicillanate 6,6 Dibromopenicillanic acid Clayton, J. Chem. Soc.C, p. 2123 1969 25 g was combined with 100 ml of methylene chloride and 25 ml of water and the pH adjusted to 8.0 with 405 tetrabutylammonium hydroxide over a period of 15 minutes. The methylene chloride layer was separated and the aqueous layer extracted with three 3.5 ml portions of fresh methylene chloride. The methylene chloride layers were combined, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, filtered, and evaporated in vacuo to yield tetrabutylczmonium 6, 6 dibromopenicillanate 39.0 g as a viscous oil.The salt was combined with 125 ml of chloroiodomethane and the mixture stirred for 16 hours, concentrated to dryness in vacuo and the residue chromatographed on 1 kg of silica gel with 19 1 toluene ethyl acetate as eluant and tlc monitoring Rf 0.75 1 1 hexane ethyl acetate . Pure product fractions were combined, evaporated to dryness, and the residue recrystallized from ether petroleum ether to yield the title product in two crops 14.1 g and 1.2 g pnmr CDC13 delta ppm 1.6 s, 3H , 1.75 s, 3H , 4.62 s, 1H , 5.8 dd, 2H , 5.82 s, lH m.p. 105 106 C. By the same method, but substituting l chloro liodoethane for chloroiodomethane, l chloroethyl 6,6 di bromopenicillanate is prepared. By the same method, but substituting methylene bismesylate, methylene bis tosylate, methylene bis phenylsulfonate or methylene bis n butylsulfonate for chloroiodomethane, the following compounds are prepared mesyloxymethyl 6, 6 dibromopenicillanate benzenesulfonyloxymethyl 6,6 dibromopenicillanate and tosyloxymethyl 6, 6 dibromopenicillanate EXAMPLE 2 Chloromethyl 6 alpha Bromo 6 beta hydroxymethyl penicillanate and Chloromethyl 6 beta Bromo 6 alpha hydroxymethyl penicillanate The title compound of the preceding Example 14.1 g was combined with 175 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran and cooled to 78 C. tert Butylmagnesium chloride 12.8 ml of 2.7M in tetrahydrofuran was added dropwise over 10 minutes, while maintaining the temperature less than 650 C. The reaction mixture was stirred for an additional 30 minutes at 780 C.Dry paraformaldehyde 45 g heated at 1500 C., under nitrogen, with an oil bath, was fed as rormaldehyde by a slow stream of nitrogen into the reaction mixture over a 4 hour period. Acetic acid 5 ml was added to the cold reaction mixture, which was then warmed to room temperature, concentrated in vacuo, taken up in ethyl acetate, and washed sequentially with 200 ml 1N hydrochloric acid, 2 x 100 ml of water and 100 ml of saturated brine, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, and concentrated to an oil. The oil was chromatographed on 600 g silica gel using 9 1 toluene ethyl acetate and then 4 1 toluene ethyl acetate as eluant and tlc monitoring.Title products were obtained in about 1 5 ratio of betahydroxymethyl to alpha hydroxymethyl as an oil 5.2 g Rf 0.12, 0.18 4 1 toluene ethyl acetate pnmr CDC13 delta ppm 1.58 s, 3H , 1.7 s, 3H , 2.4 2.85 m, 1H , 4.13 broad s, 2H , 4.54 s, 1H , 5.52 s, 1H , 5.75 dd, 2H By the same method the l chloroethyl ester of the preceding Example is converted to l chloroethyl 6 alpha bromo 6 beta hydroxymethyl penicillanate and l chloroethyl 6 beta bromo 6 alpha hydroxymethyl penicillanate By the same method the sulfonyloxymethyl esters o the preceding Example are converted to the corresponding mesyloxymethyl, benzenesulfonyloxymethyl and tosyloxymethyl esters. EXAMPLE 3 Chloromethyl 6 beta Hydroxyinethyl peniciilanate The mixture of title products of the precedingExample 4.5 g, 12.5 mmoles combined with benzene 75 ml and tributyltin hydride 3.48 ml, 13.1 mmoles and heated to reflux. Tlc monitoring indicated reaction was complete within 2 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled and concentrated in vacuo to a viscous oil which gave a gum on trituration with hexane. The gum was chromatographed on 200 g o silica gel eluting with 1 1 toluene ethyl acetate and collecting 25 ml fractions.Clean product fractions 19 32 were combined and evaporated to yield the title product as a viscous oil 2.8 g ir nujol 1775 cm 1 pnmr CDC1 3 elta pm 1.56 s, 3H , 1.68 s, 3H , 2.18 2.42 m, 1H , 3.78 4.12 m, 3H , 4.4 s, 1E , 5.42 d, 1X , 5.74 dd, 2H Rf 0.34 1 1 toluene ethyl acetate . By the same method, the mixture of l chloroethyl esters of the preceding Example is converted to l chloroethyl 6 beta hydroxymethyl penicillanate. By the same method, the sulfonyloxymethyl esters of the preceding Example are converted to the corresponding mesyloxymethyl, benzenesulfonyloxymethyl and tosyloxymethyl esters. EXAMPLE 4 Chloromethyl 6 beta Hydroxymethyl penicillanate l,l Dioxide The title product of the preceding Example 2.8 g. was combined with ethyl acetate 50 ml and cooled to 0 C. m Chloroperbenzoic acid 2.24 g was added.After 15 minutes the reaction mixture was checked by tlc complete conversion to the l oxide Rf 0.09 1 1 toluene ethyl acetate was indicated. Additional mchloroperbenzoic acid 2.24 g was added and the mixture stirred for 16 hours at room temperature, by which time tlc indicated complete conversion to the dioxide.Water 50 ml was added to the reaction mixture and any excess peroxides destroyed with sodium bisulfite. The pH was adjusted to 7.5 and the organic layer separated, washed sequentially with 25 ml portions of saturated sodium bicarbonate, water and brine, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, filtered, and concentrated to yield the title product as a gum 2.6 g ir nujol 1780 cm 1 pnmr CDC13 delta ppm 1.48 s, 3H , 1.62 s, 3H , 2.83.15 broad s, lH , 4.2 broad s, 2H , 4.08 4.5 m, lH , 4.5 s, 1H , 4.68 4.83 m, lH , 5.8 dd, 2H By the same method the l chloroethyl ester of the preceding Example is converted to l chloroethyl 6 beta hydroxymethyl penicillanate l,l dioxide. By the same method the sulfonyloxymethyl esters of the preceding Example are converted to the corresponding mesyloxymethyl, benzenesulfonyloxymethyl and tosyloxymethyl esters. EXAMPLE 5 Iodomethyl 6 beta Hydroxymethyl penicillanate l,l Dioxide Title product of the preceding Example 2.4 g was combined with 30 ml of acetone and sodium iodide 5.77 g and the mixture stirred for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo to oily solids, which were distributed between 75 ml of ethyl acetate and 50 ml of water. The ethyl acetate was separated, washed in sequence with two 25 ml portions of water and one 25 ml portion of brine, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was chromatographed cn 200 g of silica gel, elating with 7 3 methyl acetate methylene chloride and collecting 20 ml fractions.Clean product containing fractions 14 25 were combined and evaporated to yield title product as a tacky foam 2.4 g ir nujol 1780 cm R 0.64 7 3 ethyl acetate methylene chloride pnmr CDC13 delta ppm 1.48 s, 3H , 1.6 s, 3H , 2.8 3.15 broad s, 1H , 4.2 broad s, 2H , 4.1 4.42 m, lah , 4.68 4.8 m, 1H , 5.94 dd, 2H . By the same method, extending the reaction time to 24 hours, the l chloroethyl ester of the preceding Example is converted to l iodoethyl 6 beta hydroxymethyl penicillanate l,l dioxide. By the same method1 substituting sodium bromide for sodium iodide and extending the reaction time to 32 hours, bromomethyl 6 beta hydroxymethyl penicillanate l,l dioxide is prepared. The title product is also prepared by reacting the corresponding mesyloxymethyl, benzenesulfonyloxymethyl and tosylsulfonyloxymethyl esters with sodium iodide, but again extending the reaction time to 24 hours. EXAMPLE 6 6 beta D 2 Azido 2 phenylacetamido penicillanoyloxymethyl 6 beta Hydroxymethyl penicillanate 1 ,l Dioxide A mixture of 3.5 g of 6 D 2 alpha azidophenylacet amido penicillanic acid sodium salt in 20 ml of methylene chloride and 20 ml of water was treated with sufficient 6N hydrochloric acid to give a pH of 2.0. Tetrabutylammonium hydroxide 40 in water was gradually added until the pH was 7.0. The organic phase was separated and the aqueous layer further extracted 2 x 20 ml with fresh methylene chloride. The methylene chloride layers were combined, dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under vacuum tc give 4.2 g cz the corresponding tetrabutylammonium salt. The tetrabutylammonium salt 1.65 g, 2.7 mmoles and the iodomethyl ester of the preceding Example 1.07 g, 2.7 mmoles were combined in 20 ml of acetone and stirred to dissolve. Tlc monitoring 1 1 ethyl acetate toluene indicated that the reaction was almost complete within 3 minutes of dissolution. After an additional 10 minutes, the reaction mixture was evaporated in vacuo to a oam which was chromatographed on silica gel with 3 2 methylene chloride ethyl acetate as eluant, collecting 20 ml fractions.Clean product fractions tlc were combined and concentrated in vacuo to yield title product as a foam 1.7 g Rf 0.12 1 1 ethyl acetate toluene , 0.43 3 2 methylene chloride ethyl acetate , 0.5 1 1 methylene chloride ethyl acetate pnmr CDCl3 delta ppm 1.4, 1.5, 1.54, 1.61 4s, 4 x 3H , 2.3 2.6 m, 1H , 4.0 4.5 m, 3H , 4.4 s, 2H , 5.0 s, 1H , 5.4 5.8 m, 2H , 5.8 broad s, 2H , 7.05 d, 1H , 7.3 s, 5H 1, By the same method, the l iodoethyl ester of the preceding Example is converted to 1 6 beta D 2 azido 2 phenylacetamido penicillanoyloxy ethyl 6 beta hydroxy methyl penicillanate l ,l dioxide. Substituting an equivalent amount of the appropriate tetrabutylammonium salt prepared by the same method from the corresponding penicillin , the following compounds are prepared from iodomethyl 6 betG hydroxymethyl penicil lanate l,1 dioxide 6 beta 2 phenylacetamido penicillanoyloxymethyl 6 beta hydroxymethyl penicillanate 1 ,l dioxide 6 beta 2 phenoxyacetamido penicillanoyloxymethyl 6 beta hydroxymethyl penicillanate l ,l dioxide 6 beta 2 benzyloxycarbonyl 2 phenylacetamido penicillanoyloxymethyl 6 beta hydroxymethyl penicil lanate l ,l dioxide 6 betz 2 Denzyloxycarbonvl 2 2 thienyl acetamido penicillanoyloxymethyl 6 beta ydrcxq ilethyl penicillanate l ,l dioxide 6 beta 2 benzyloxycarbonyl 2 3 thienyl 2cetamido penicillanoyloxymethyl 6 betz hydroxvmethyl penicil lanate l ,l dioxide and 6 beta 2 4 e.hyl 2,3 dioxopiper2zine l carbox2miCo 2 phenylacetamido penicillanoyloxymethyl 6 beta hydroxymethyl penicillanate l ,l dioxide. The title product is also prepared by reacting the corresponding chloromethyl, bromomethyl, mesyloxymethyl, benzenesulfonyloxymethyl and tosyloxymethyl esters of the preceding two Examples, monitoring the reaction by tlc and extending the reaction time as necessary. When the latter esters are employed, it is preferable to add iodide ion to enhance the overall rate of conversion to the desired product. EXPMPIJ r 7 6 beta D 2 Amino 2 phenylacetamido penicillanoyloxymethyl 6 beta Hydroxymethyl penicillanate l ,l Dioxide Title compound of the preceding Example 1.4 g was combined with 30 ml of methylene chloride and 30 ml of isopropyl alcohol and hydrogenated at 50 psi for 45 minutes over 1.5 g of 10 Pd C. T1c control indicated reaction to be about 75 complete. An additional portion 1.5 g of catalyst was added and hydrogenation continued for 45 minutes. Since a trace of starting material remained, more catalyst 1 g was added and hydrogenation allowed to proceed for a further 30 minutes. The catalyst was recovered by filtration with 1 1 methylene chloride isopropyl alcohol wash. The combined filtrate and washes were evaporated to solids.The residue was triturated with ether and filtered to yield the title product 0.83 g ir nujol 1735 1800 cm pnmr DMSO d6 delta ppm 1.38, 1.39, 1.42 and 1.5 4s, 12H , 3.6 4.35 m, 3K , 4.42 s, 1H , 4.55 s, 1H , 4.81 s, 1H , 5.1 5.26 m, 1H , 5.38 5.62 m, 2H , 5.9 broad s, 2H , 7.4 broad s, 5H By the same method the correscond ing l,l ethanediol bis ester from the preceding Example is converted to 1 6 beta D 2 amino 2 pherylacetamido penicillanoylOxy ethyl 6 beta hydroxymethyl penicillanate 1 ,1 dioxide. By the same method the benzyl esters of the precedingExample are hydrogenolyzed to yield 6 beta 2 carboxy 2 phenylacetamido penicillanoyl oxymethyl 6 beta hydroxymethyl penicillanate 1 ,1 dioxide 6 beta 2 carboxy 2 2 thienyl acetamido penicillan oyloxymethyl 6 beta hydroxymethyl penicillanate 1 ,1 dioxide and 6 beta 2 carboxy 2 3 thienyl acetamido penicil lanoyloxymethyl 6 beta hydroxymethyl penicillanate l ,l dioxide. EXAMPLE 8 6 beta D 2 Amino 2 phenylacetamido penicillanoyloxymethyl 6 beta Hydroxymethyl penicillanate l ,l Dioxide Hydrochloride Hydrochloric acid 0.1N, 12.5 ml was cooled to 0 C. and 0.78 g of the corresponding free base from the preceding Example added. The mixture was stirred for 5 minutes to yield a hazy solution having pH 1.9. The solution was clarified by filtration over a pad of diatomaceous earth with 30 ml water wash.The filtrate and wash were combined and freeze dried to yield the title product 0.76 g ir nujol 1730 1800 cm 1 pnmr DMSO d6 delta ppm 1.2 1.62 m, 129 , 3.5 4.3 m, 3H , 4.38 s, 1H , 4.5 s, 1H , 4.8 5.7 m, 411 , 5.88 broad s, 2H , 6.75 d, 2H , 7.22 , 2 , 8.5 9.1 broad s, 2 , 9.4 d, 1H ,9.8 10.2 broad s, 1E . EXAMPLE 9 6 beta D 2 Benzyloxycarbonylamino 2 p hydroxyphenyl acetamidolpenicillanoyloxymethyl 6 beta Hydroxy methvl enicillanate l ,l Dioxide 6 beta D 2 Benzyloxycarbonylamino 2 p hydroxy phenyl acetamido penicillanic acid carbobenzoxy amoxicillin , 5.0 g was combined with 75 ml of methylene chloride and 25 ml of water. Gumming of the solids was noted. The pH was adjusted to 8.5 with 40 tetrabutylammonium hydroxide the gummy solids dissolving. The methylene chloride layer was separated and the aqueous layer extracted with two further 40 ml portions of methylene chloride. The methylene chloride organic layer and extracts ere combined and evaporated to yield the corresponding tetrabutylammonium salt 7.2 g . Tetrabutylammonium salt prepared in this manner 3.33 g, 4.5 mmoles was combined with iodomethyl 6 beta hydroxymethyl penicillanate l,l dioxiae 25 g, 3.1 mmoles in 15 ml of acetone. The reaction was monitored by tlc, which indicated almost complete reaction after 5 minutes and no more than a trace of starting material after 30 minutes. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo to a viscous gum. The residue was taken up in 15 ml of 7 3 ethyl acetate methylene chloride and chromatographed on 125 g of silica gel using the same solvent system as eluant and tlc monitoring. Productcontaining fractions were combined and evaporated to yield 1.8 g of partially purified product.The latter was rechromatographed to yield purified title product 1.25 g Rf 0.32 7 3 ethyl acetatemethylene chloride pnmr DMSO d6 delta ppm 1.4, 1.42, 1.48, 1.58 4s, 12H , 3.55 4.3 m, 3H , 4.4 s, 1H , 4.59 s, 1K , 5.06 s, 2H , 5.05 5.3 m, 2H , 5.32 5.68 m, 2H , 5.95 broad s, 2H , 6.68 d, 2H , 7.2 d, 2H , 7.34 s, 5H , 7.78 d, 1H , 8.9 d, 1H , 9.4 s, 1H . In like manner, the tetrabutylammonium salt is reacted with l iodoethyl 6 beta hydroxymethyl penicillanate l,l dioxide to produce the corresponding bis 1,1ethanediol ester. In like manner, 6 beta benzyloxycarbonylamino penicillanic acid is converted to its tetrabutylammonium salt and then reacted with iodomethyl 6 beta hydroxymethyl penicillanate l,l dioxide to yield 6 beta benzyl oxycarbonylamino penicillanoyloxymethyl 6 beta hydroxymethyl penicillanate l ,l dioxide. EXAMPLE 10 6 beta D 2 Amino 2 p hydroxyphenyl acetamido penicillanoyloxymethyl 6 beta CHydroxymethyl Penicillanate l ,l Dioxide The title ester of the preceding Example 1.2 g was combined with 15 ml of isopropyl alcohol and 15 ml of methylene chloride and hydrpgenated at 50 psi over 1.5 g of 10 Pd C for 45 minutes, at which time tlc monitoring indicated the reaction was about 50 complete.An additional 1.5 g of catalyst was added and hydrogenation cont inued for a further 45 minutes to about 80 completion by tlc. A third 1.5 g portion of catalyst and 45 minutes hydrogenation left no more than a trace of starting material. The catalyst was recovered by filtration.Evaporation of the filtrate in vacuo to solids and trituration with ether gave the title product 0.42 g pnmr DMSO d6 delta ppm 1.38, 1.42 1.5 s, 12E , 3.5 4.25 m, 3H , 4.38 s, 111 , 4.52 s, 1H5, 4.8 5.7 m, tH , 5.88 broad s, 2H , 6.72 d, 2H , 7.22 d, 2H In like manner, the bis l,l ethanediol ester of the preceding Example is hydrogenolyzed to the corresponding bis ester of l,l ethanediol with amoxicillin and 6 beta hydroxymethyl penicillanate 1,1 dioxide. In like manner, the 6 benzyloxycarbonylamino derivative of the preceding Example is hydrogenolyzed to yield 6 beta aminopenicillanoyloxymethyl 6 beta hydroxymethyl penicillanate l, dioxide EXAMPLE 11 6 beta ED 2 Amino 2 p hydroxyphenyl acetamido penicillanoyloxymethyl 6 beta Hydroxymethyl penicillanate l ,l Dioxide Hydrochloride By the procedure of Example 8, title product of the preceding Example 0.38 g was converted to the title hydrochloride salt 0.33 g pnmr DMSO d6 delta ppm 1.2 1.62 m, 12H , 3.5 4.3 m, 3H , 4.38 s, lH , 4.5 s, 1H , 4.8 5.7 m, 4H , 5.88 broad s, 2H , 6.75 d, 2K , 7.22 d, 2H , 8.5 9.1 broad s, 2H , 9.4 d, 1H , 9.8 10.2 broad s, 1H . EXAMPLE 12 6 beta 2 Phenylacetamido penicillanoyloxymethyl 6t beta Hydroxymethyl penicillanate l ,l Dioxide The 6 beta Aminopenicillanoyloxymethyl 6 beta hydroxy methyl penicillanate l ,l dioxide of Example 10 and a molar equivalent of triethylamine are taken into 25 parts by weight of methylene chloride. A molar equivalent of 2 phenylacetyl chloride in 5.parts by weight of methylene chloride is added dropwise while maintaining the temperature of the reaction mixture at 20 25 C.After 2 hours at the same temperature, by product triethylamine hydrochloride is extracted into water. The methylene chloride layer is dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate,.filtered and evaporated to yield the title product. EXAMPLE 13 6 beta 2,2 Dimethyl 4 phenyl 5 imidazolidinon 1 yl penicillanoyloxymethyl 6 beta Hydroxymethyl penicillanate l ,l Dioxide 6 beta 2 Amino 2 phenylacetamido penicillanoyloxy methyl 6, beta hydroxymethyl penicillanate 1 ,l dioxlde 0.5 g is stirred with 30 ml of acetone for 3 days. The reaction mixture is evaporated n vacuo to yield the title product. EXAMPLF 1t Capsules Capsules are prepared by blending the following ingredients in the proportion by weight. indicated Calcium carbonate, U.S.P. 17.6 Dicalcium phosphate 18.8 Magnesium trisilicate, U.S.P. 5.2 Lactose, U.S.P. 5.2 Potato starch 5.2 Magnesium stearate A 0.8 Magnesium stearate B 0.35 6 beta D 2 Amino 2 phenylacetamido penicillanoyloxymethyl 6 beta hydroxymethyl penicillanate 1 ,1 dioxide hydrochloride 50.0 Appropriate weights of this blend are filled into gelatin capsules of the appropriate size so as to obtain capsules of the following potency of the free base form of the active ingredient 125 mg, 250 mg and 500 mg.