# Nitrocellulose lacquer composition containing gelatin and acrylic copolymers.

## Abstract
An improved nitrocellulose lacquer containing small amounts of water soluble gelatin preferably of molecular weight in the range from 15,000 to 250,000 and an acrylic copolymer and a novel process for dispersing and incorpor ating the gelatin are disclosed.

## Claims
CLAPS 1. A lacquer composition comprising a nitrocellulose primary film former, and a secondary film former and suitable plasticizers and liquid carriers therefor, characterised in that the secondary film former comprises two or more resinous secondary film formers, one of which is always acrylic copolymer, the said acrylic copolymer being present in proportion of at least about 10 and no more than about 70 by weight based on the total secondary film formers and in that the composition includes a watersoluble animal gelatin having a molecular weight in the range from 15,000 to 250,000 2. A lacquer composition as claimed in claim 1 in which the gelatin is 50 80 bone gelatin and 20 50 hide gelatin. 3. A lacquer composition as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 in which the said gelatin content is 0.25 to 1.0 wt and the acrylic copolymer content is 1 to 3 wt . 4. A lacquer composition as clclmec in claim 1 or claim 2 in which the gelatin content is 0.4 to 0.8 wt and the acrylic copolymer content is 1.5 te 2.5 wt 9. 5. A laquer comnosiWion as claimed in anyone of the preceding claims in which the resinous secondary film former used in addition to the acrylic copolymer is toluene sulphonamide formaldehyde resin. 6. A process for preparing a nitrocellulose lacquer containing gelatin and acrylic resin which comprises working a mixture comprising gelatin, nitrocellulose, plasticizer and lacquer solvents under compression to intimately disperse the gelatin, driving off the solvents to form a predispersion comprising gelatin dispersed in nitrocellulose and plasticizer and thereafter combining the said predispersion in particulate form with lacquer components among which are two or more resinous secondary film formers, one of which is always acrylic copolymer. 7. A process for the preparation of a nitrocellulose lacquer containing water soluble gelatin which comprises the steps of 1 mixing lacquer components comprising soluble gelatin of molecular weight in the range Prm 15,000 to 250,000, and a portion of the total plasticizer lacquer solvents to give a high viscosity liquid, 2 working the high viscosity liquid obtained in step 1 under compression and squeezing motion to disperse the gelatin and form a predispersion comprising nitrocellulose, gelatin and plasticizer, 3 converting the mass from step 2 to particulate form and 4 mixing or converting further to particulate form or both mixing and converting further to particulate form the mass from step 3 with the balance of the lacquer ingredients among which are two or more resinous secondary film formers, one of which is always acrylic copolymer. 8. A Process as claimed in claim 7 in which in step 2 the high viscosity liquidiSgorked on a roll mill. 9. A process as claimed in claim 7 or claim 8 in which in step 3 the mass is converted to particulate form by grinding in at least a portion of the lacquer liquids. 10. A process as claimed in anyone of claims 7 to 9 in which the amount of the saie gelatin added based on the weight of finished lacquer is 0.25 to 1.0 and the amount of acrylic copolymer is 2 to 6 . 11. A process as claimed in anyone of claims 7 to 9 in which the amount of tne said iae atin added based on the weight of the finished lacquer is 0.4 to 0.88 and the amount of acrylic copolymer is 3 to 58. 12. A colloidal dispersion of water soluble animal gelatin in plasticized nitrocellulose, the said animal gelatin being present in an amount of 3 to 17 wt , and having a molecular weight in the range Srom 15,000 to 250,000. 13. A process for preparing a dispersion of water soluble gelatin in nitrocellulose which comprises mixing lacquer components comprising nitroceliulose, a plasticizer, 2 water soluble gelatin having molecular weight in the range fran 15, CXX 250, JJ anz laguer solvents to form a plastic mass and thereafter working and spreading the mass under compression and squeezing action to disperse the gelatin and drive off the solvents.

## Description
NITROCELLULOSE LACQUER COMPOSITION CONTAINING GELATIN AND ACRYLIC COPOLYMERSTechnical Field This invention relates to novel lacquer comPositions which afford desirable improvements in the durability and hardness of the resulting coatings. More particularly, this invention is concerned with nitrocellulose resin based lacquers which contain small amounts of both a high molecular weight, water soluble gelatin and an acrylic copolymer and conventional additives. The lacquers are particularly useful for human nail coatings. The invention also extends to a process for preparing the lacquers which involves an intermediate to which the invention also extends which intermediate is a solid dispersion of water soluble gelatin in nitrocellulose.Prior Art As is generally known, various base coatings have been prepared and marketed in the past for nail surfacing compositions, or nail varnish and various attempts have been made to improve the general pewformance of coatings which have nitrocellulose as the primary film forming base. Addition of finely particulate water insoluble albuminoids such as keratin to nail varnish containing cellulose nitrate and natural or synthetic resins has been disclosed in US Patent 3,483,289. U.S. Patent 3,907,580 discloses schleroprotein derivatives having such as a collagen hydrolyzate of animal origin with a pH in the range of about 3 to 7.5 in combination with nitrocellulose and an aryl sulphonamide formaldehyde resin. French Patent 1,572,598 utilizes an alcohol soluble protein collagen which is specified to be a hydrolyzed gelatin with a molecular weight range of up to 10,000, preferably 500 1000. The use of methacrylate resins in a cellulose nitrate based fingernail enamel composition is disclosed in US Patent 2,195,971. While the incorporation of lacquer insoluble pig ments via plasticized nitrocellulose sheet is a known procedure, W.C.Doviak Cosmetics, Science and Technology 2nd Ed. Vol 2, p. 528 1972 , Wiley Interscience Ed. M.S.Balsam et al., this method of dispersing water soluble gelatin has not heretofore been disclosed. Prior to the present invention. the cofFinez use of t water soluble gelatin having molecular weight in the rance 15,000 250,000 and an acrylic copolymer to drastically modify and improve the appearance and performance of coatings having the film formers utilized in this invention has not been disclosed. Moreover, in addition to the novelty of the combination, thi method of preparation is also new. First trials to make a lacquer containing gelatin of the nature envisioned i.e. water soluble gelatin of molecular weight in the range from 15,000 250,000 derived from mixture of bone and hide, in combination with the acrylic copolymer met with failure when methods of incornoratlng and dispersing collagenous materials known from the prior art were tried. To sum up these unsuccessful attempts, the water soluble gelatin always settled out of the lacquer even after the most vigorous and efficient types of stirring were employed. Disclosure of the Invention As a result of persistent efforts and consideration, methods were found to carry out this invention. These methods utilize high shear grinding of the water soluble gelatin having a molecular weiaht m nce range n 15,000 250,000 This dispersion of gelatin, which is colloidal in nature, can be obtained by conventional means for forming colloid suspensions such as by the use of ball mills or roller mills. The gelatin is predispersed in the solvents, resins, and plasticizers, which are used in the formulation. One method used to carry out the invention employs coplasticizing in intimate admixture the water soluble gelatin having molecular weight in the range from 15,ex9Eo,Oc and the nitrocellulose.Preparation of the lacquer of this invention requires predispersion of the gelatin, believed to be of colloidal size, in a solid plasticized nitrocellulose mass, a procedure not previously known in the art. The present invention crovizes improved nitrocellulose based lacquer compositions especially suitable for application as surface coatings for human nails i.e.as nail varnish. The lacquer compositions are free flowing liquids which may be applied to fingernails and toenails in conventional manner for example, with a small brush, which provide improved coatings when they harden, being firmly adhering, durable coatings which remain intact for periods of time of at least 5 6 days under average exposure to the environment at home and or in an office.The cured coatings have a wet look of freshly applied lacquer which is retained for extended periods. The lacquers of this invention are comprised on an overall basis of a primary film former which is nitrocellulose, two or more secondary film formers, one of which is always acrylic copolymer present in portion of at least about 10 and no more than about 70 by weight of the total secondary film formers, water soluble animal gelatin of molecilar eeictt in the the nT rie from 15,000 250,000 suitable plasticizers and liquid carriers tnerefor including solvents, couplers and diluents, all of which liquid,carriers are for the most part evaporants.Suspension aids may also be added. The process according to the present invention for preparing the nitrocellulose lacquer composition involves intimately PredisPersing the gelatin in a substantial portion of the nitrocellulose by plasticizing the mixture with a suitable plasticizer and lacquer solvents to form a thick plastic mass and thereafter roller milling the plastic mass to form a gelatin nitrocellulose sheet which is cooled and converted into particulate form,, the resultant particulate material being mixed with other lacquer components. The improvements in properties of adherence to surfaces, durability and the wet look are due to the combined effect of the water soluble gelatin having molecular weight in the ranee from 15,00C to 50,O00 and the acrylic copolymer. As will be readily realized, the process for preparing the lacquer also provides a novel intermediate, the solid dispersion of water soluble gelatin in nitrocellulose. The process for preparing this intermediate comprises mixing lacquer components comprised of nitro cellulose, a plasticizer, a water soluble gelatin having a molecular weight in the ranee from 1.S,rXX to 25O,Cfl and laguer solvents to form a plastic mass and thereafter working and spreading the mass under compression and squeezing action, prefer ably between rollers, to disperse the gelatin and drive off the solvents. It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide novel lacquer compositions comprised of nitrocellulose primary film former, two or more resinous secondary film formers, one of which is always acrylic copolymer, a small amount of a water soluble animal gelatin having molecular weight in the ranae fran l5,Om to 250,000 suitable plasticizers and other conventional lacquer additives and carriers which are especially suitable for human nail coatings. When the proportion of acrylic copolymer based on the total secondary film formers is below about 10 , there is no significant improvement in durability of the dried coatings. When the proportion of acrylic copolymer based on the total secondary film formers is above about 70 , the lacquer is too thick and is hard to control. Another object of this invention is to provide human nail lacquer compositions which cure to coatings of exceptionable hardness and durability and which retain the high gloss appearance of the wet look of freshlyapplied lacquer. Another object is to provide a process for preparing uniform and stable nail lacquer compositions containing intimately dispersed water soluble gelatin having molecular weight in the range fran 15,000 to 250,O00 always in combination in the lacquer with an acrylic copolymer. The lacquers of the present invention suitable for human nail coverings and having improved hardness, durability and appearance preferably comprises as a primary film former, nitrocellulose, two or more resinous secondary film formers, one of which is always acrylic copolymer, water soluble animal gelatin having a molecular weight in the range fran 15,000 to 25fl,Cm, optionally pigments ad colouring agents plasticizer ana a suspending agent, all in liquid carrier vehicle comprising couplers, diluents and volatile solvents. The acrylic copolymer and water soluble gelatin serve as modifiers or activators. The nail lacquer in a preferred form contains, based on overall weight , from 10 25 , preferably 15 20 of nitrocellulose from 1 3 , preferably l.5 2.S of acrylic copolymer resin from 5 to 10 , preferably 7 to 88 of secondary film forming resin other than acrylic copolymer or a synthetic modified resin from 0.25 1.0 preferably 0.4 to 0.8 of water soluble animal gelatin having molecular weight in the ranne from fran l5. 250,000 4 8 , preferably 5 7 of plasticizer, the balance being liuqid carrier vehicle including couplers, solvents and diluents. The nitrocellulose used is preferably lacquer grade nitrocellulose, preferably of the type RS or n SS t and in particular nitrocellulose type RS 1 seconds, nitrocellulose type RS 1 2 seconds and nitrocellulose RS type 5 e seconds. The RS type nitrocelluloses are preferred, type RS 5 6 second being preferred over all others. In addition to acrylic copolymer which is always present, the secondary film formina resins suitable for the practice of this invention include one or more of the following synthetic resinous materials arylsuiphonamide formaldehyde, vinyl, vinylidene, alkyd, epoxy, melamine, phenolic, polyester, polyurethane, urea formaldehyde, polyethylene, polystyrene and polypropylene and the natural dammar resin. The synthetic resins are preferred and of these the preferred secondary film fon.ing resin used in conjunction with acrylic copolymer is an aryl sulpnonami e formaldehyde resin. Suitably, trite arylsulphonamide formaldehyde resin is i naphthyl, phenyl or substituted phenyl sulphonamide.Preferably, the arylsulphonamiae resin used in lacquers of this invention is toluenesulphonamide formaldehyde resin. Plasticizing agents usable in the lacquers include tricresyl phosphate, benzyl benzoate, tributyl phosphate, butyl acetyl ricinoleate, lyceryl acetyl ricinoleate, dibutyl phthalate, dibutyl glycolate, dioctyl phthalate, butyl stearate, tributoxy ethyl phosphate, triphenyl phosphate, triethyl citrate, tributyl citrate, tributvl acetyl citrate, 2 hexvl triethyl acetyl citrate, dibutyl tartrate, dimethoxy ethyl phthalate, di isobutyl phthalate, diamyl phthalate, camphor and various mixtures thereof. Of these, dibutylphthalate plasticizer is preferred, preferably along with a small amount of camphor. The gelatins suitable for practicing the invention are preferably the Type B gelatins which are prepared by alkaline hydrolysis of animal collagen, preferably by alkaline hydrolysis of bone or hide and combinations thereof under conditions which provide gelatin of molecular weight in the range f wL 5,003 to 250,000. The gelatin preferred in this invention is derived from bone and gelatin, preferably about 50 80 bone gelatin and 20 50 hide gelatin and especially preferred is gelatin prepared by b5 75 from bone and 2b 3b from hide. By acrylic copolymer is meant a polymerized combination selected from among acrylic, methacrylic, 2 hydroxy ethyl methacrylic acids, their esters, amides and alkali metal and ammonium salts and the like. Examples of suitable combinations are 1 acrylamide sodium acrylate copolymer 2 acrylate acrylamide copoLvmer 3 acrylate ammonium methacrylate copolymer 4 acrylates conolymer 5 acrylic acrylate copolymer which is an acrylic acid and methacrylic acid or an ester.The one preferred is acrylates copolymer, which is a polymer of two or more monomers consisting of acrylic acid and methacrylic acid and simple esters thereof. Among the solvents usable in the compositions of the lacquers, a few in particular are cited ethyl acetate, butyl acetate, amyl acetate, methylacetate, methylisobutylketone, methylethyl ketone, methyl glycol acetate and mixtures of such solvents. Preferably, a mixture of butyl and ethyl acetates is used in the mixture. Among the so called couplers,. the lower molecular weight alkanols may be used such as ethanol, propanol, isopropyl alcohol, n butyl alcohol and mixtures thereof.Preferably, a mixture of isoproyl alcohol and n butyl alcohol are used. As diluents, aromatic or aliphatic hydrocarbons such as toluene or heptane may be used or a mixture thereof. Preferably, the diluent used is toluene.Inorganic pigments such as titanium dioxide, coloured polymeric material and dyes may be used or colour effects. In general, the process for preparing the lacquers of this invention comprises working a mixture comprising water soluble gelatin, nitrocellulose plasticizer and lacquer solvents under compression to intimately disperse the gelatin, driving off the solvents to form a solid predispersion comprising gelatin dispersed in nitrocellulose and plasticizer and thereafter combining tne solid predispersion in particulate form with lacquer components among which are two or more secondary film formers, one of which is always acrylic copolymer. More specifically the process for the preparation of a nitrocellulose lacquer containing water soluble gelatin and acrylic copolymer comprises the steps of 1 mixing lacquer components comprising water soluble gelatin of molecralareich in the ranee fran 15,000 to 250,000, a portion of the total plasticizer and sufficient lacquer solvents to give a high viscosity liquid, 2 working the high viscosity liquid obtained in step 1 under compression and squeezing motion preferably on a roll mill, to disperse the gelatin and form a solid predispersion comprising nitrocellulose, gelatin and plasticizer, preferably as a sheet or ribbon, 3 converting to particulate form the solid from step 2 , preferably by grinding in at least a portion of lacquer liquids and 4 mixing and or further converting to particu late form solids from step 3 with the balance of the lacquer ingredients which include acrylic copolymer and another secondary film former. A general description of the individual steps of the process follows. In step 1 the gelatin is peferably mixed with about 4 to 30 times, preferably about 7 times, its own weight of nitrocellulose and about 1 to 6 times, preferabl about I to 2 times, its own weight of plasticizer, preferably dibutylphthalate, together with sufficient lacquer solvents and liquids to form a high viscosity liquid. The lacquer solvents preferably are used in the same or about the same ratio as in the basic overall finished formulation used to mate a particular lacquer.Obviously, because the solvents are evaporated for the most part in the next step, many equivalent variations will be apparent, including the use of some which are not used in quantity in the final product. In step 2 the resultant high viscosity liquid is preferably worked by spreading the mass from step I under compression and squeezing action, preferably between water cooled rollers of a roller mill in repetition until the gelatin has become intimately dispersed. Ilnustrative ly, about 3 or 4 passes through a 2 roll water cooled roller mill will be sufficient. In step 3 the gelatin nitrocellulose disnersion is preferably converted to particulate form in at least a portion of the lacquer liquids. The proportion of lacquer liquid to the total lacquer liquids may vary over a wide range up to and including the total liquids.The nitrocellulose gelatin dispersion comprises three major components ranging in proportions, in parts by weight, of 3 17 of gelatin, preferably about 10 of gelatin about 69 81 of nitrocellulose, preferably about 75 of nitrocellulose and about 14 16 of plasticizer, preferably about IS of plasticizer. These ranges are exclusive of small amounts of solvents which remain trapped in the solid sheet. In step 4 a clear lacquer base compris 758 of the solvents and diluents portion of the formula are preferably placed in a mixing tank. Under agitation with a high shear mixer, nitrocellulose is first added and dissolved followed by addition of the gelatin dispersion prepared in step 3 , the secondary film forming resins including acrylic copolymer and remaining plasticizer and suspending agent. Sufficient mixing time is allowed to ensure homogenuity. Colour dispersions are optionally added, viscosity is adjusted to that required and the lacquer is filtered. Obviously, many variations in order of addition will become apparent to those skilled in the art.BEST MODE OF CARRYING OUT THE INVENTION The invention may be put into practice in various ways and a number of specific embodiments will be described to illustrate the invention with reference to the following examples in which Examples 1 and 5 are embodiments of the invention and 2 to 4 are comparative. Example 1 Gelatin and Acrylic Copolymer A lacquer composition having the following overall composition was prepared by the method following. Weight of Ingredient In Ingredient Finished Lacquer Nitrocellulose, RS 5 6 Sec 17.50 Toluenesulfonamide formaldehyde resin 7.50 Gelatin a 0.60 Dibutyl phthalate , 5.00 Acrylates copolymer 2.00 Camphor 0.55 Butyl acetate 17.50 Ethyl acetate 7.50 Isopropyl alcohol 5.00 n Butyl alcohol 0.55 UV Absorber 0.05 Toluene 36.25 100.00 a Manufacturer s specification for derivation of gelatin is 70 bone, 30 hide. The molecular weight is 15,000 250,000. Predispersion of Gelatin in Plasticized Nitrocellulose A solid dispersion of gelatin in nitrocellulose was prepared as follows a charge of all the gelatin, 9 times its own weight of nitrocellulose, 3 times its own weight of dibutylphthalate, together with sufficient lacquer solvents preferably in the overall proportions contained in the finished lacquer to wet the mass was mixed in a High Shear Cowles mixer to give a high viscosity liquid. The mass was charged onto the rolls of a high speed, water cooled roller mill and the high viscosity liquid was recycled through the roll mill until the maximum dispersion was obtained. Precaration of Lacquer Base To 70 of the solvents in the ratio required in the above formulation held in a tank under high shear agitation i.e. Hocnmeyer Recistered Trade Mark dispenser was added the remainder of nitrocellulose not used in mating the gelatin nitrocellulose tredistersion or chin. When the nitrocellulose had dissolved, the toluene sulphonamide formaldehyde resin, the remainder of the dibutyl phthalate, camphor and W absorber were added in sequence. Agitation was continued until the ingredients were substantially dissolved. The solution was filtered to remove traces of impurity and the acrylatescopolymer was added under agitation. Preparation of finished Laccuer The gelatin nitrocellulose dispersion prepared above was dispersed in the remaining X08 of the solvents under high shear agitation and added to the foregoing lacquer base under agitation. The lacquer was filtered. Comparative Examples 2 4 Lacquer compositions for comparative purposes were prepared following Example 2 Example 3 Example 4 Gelatin Acrylate No Gelatin No No No Acrylate Inoredient Acrvlate Gelatin Nitrocellulose, RS 1 2 Sec. 17.50 17.50 17.50 Toluenesulfonamide formaldehyde resin 7.50 7.50 7.50Gelatin a 0.60 Dibutylphthalate 5.00 5.00 5.00Acrylates copolymer 2.00 Camphor 0.55 0.55 0.55Butyl acetate 17.50 17.50 17.50Ethyl acetate 7.50 7.50 7.50Isopropyl alcohol 5.00 5.00 5.00 n Butyl alcohol 0.55 0.55 0.55 Uv Absorber 0.05 0.05 0.05Toluene 38.25 56.85 38.85 Total 100.00 100.00 100.00 Same as Example 1.The lacquer of Example 2 was prepared by the same procedure as Example 1, except no acrylic copolymer was added. The composition of Example 3 required no gelatin dispersion and was prepared as described in Example 1 under Preparation ofLacquer Base, using all the solvent, plasticizer and nitrocellulose in that step and the lacquer base was the finished lacquer. The composition of Example 4 having neither gelatin nor acrylic monomer was prepared as in Example 3, except no acrylic was added. Example 5 A lacquer composition having the following overall composition was prepared by the method following Weight รง of Ingredient In Ingredient Finished Lacauer Sitrocellulose, RS 1 2 Sec. 17.50 Toluene suxhonamide formaldehyde resin 7.00 Gelatin a 0.66 Dibutyl phthalate 5.25 Acrylates copolymer 2.00 Camphor 1.00 Butyl acetate 20.00 Ethyl acetate 7.00 Amyl acetate 5.00 Isopropyl alcohol 5.00 n Butyl alcohol 1.00 Absorber 0.05 Toluene 25.50 Stearalkonium hectorite 1.04 Clay suspension agent Pigment dispersion 2.00 Total 100.00 a Same as Example 1. Predispersed gelatin nitrocellulose chip was prepared as in Example 1. Lacquer base was also prepared as in Example 1 except a small portion of the nitrocellulose and solvent was withheld and used to mix with and form a suspension with the clay suspension agent. The acrylic copolymer was then added to this suspension which was in turn added to the lacquer base. The lacquer was then finished as in Example 1 by adding the gelatin nitrocellulose dispersion into the lacquer base and finally adding the pigment dispersion and filtering. Test Procedure General Description Preformed acrylic Pinback paintable nails more twice coated with nail lacquer using a small brush, dried for 24 hours and tumbled with sand in tubes mounted on a rotating bar for a given period of time.The coatings are then observed, scored and evaluated to obtain a Wear Index. The lower the Wear Index, the better the coating. Coating Procedure 81and3 Pinback acrylic nails used in the trade to display various nail polishes were fixed in place in rows via the raised knob of the back of the nails so that the rounded surface was face up on a 1 8 3.2 mms thick flat arcylic sheet. The raised knobs fitted into holes drilled in an acrylic sheet. The nails were then painted using a nail polish brush, dipping from a small nail polish bottle wnich had been shaken first, always dipping the brush once per nail and uniformly coatin the surface and edge. The nails were painted a second time allowing a suitable amount of time between coats for drying and a minimum of 24 hr after the last coat. The coated nails were removed from the acrylic sheet for testing. Abrasion Test Apparatus and Procedure Capped 50 ml tubes 1 t2.5 cms I.D. were loaded with 5 g sea sand Fisher ScientitiR, washed and ignited and 5 coated nails. The tubes were mounted vertically witn clamps to a mechanically rotatable bar. The bar with tubes attached containing the sand and nails was rotated for lb hours at 20 rpm, each revolution moving sand and nails from one end of the tube to the other. A total of 15 painted nails were used in each evaluation. Test Evaluation Procedure The nails were removed from the tubes and separated from the sand. Each nail was visually observed individ ually and given a grade from 0 to 5 as follows 0 unabraded control 1 slight body and edge wear 2 slight to moderate body and edge wear 3 moderate body wear and loss oรง shine with slight chipping 4 moderate to severe body wear, loss of shine, chipping without bare spots 5 severe body wear with bare spots and extensive edge wear bare spot an area where the coating has been worn away, revealing the underlying surface of the original unpainted nail. The Wear Index was determined by multiplying the number of nails at each grade level by tne grade number, adding the total and dividing by te total number of nails treated. Results of tests on 1r nails for each ofExamples 1 4 are in Table 1. Table 1 Abrasion Resistance Tests Significant No. out of 15 Characteristic at EachExample of Lacquer Grade Level Wear No. ComPosition O 1 2 3 4 5 Index 1 Gelatin acrylic O 6 5 4 0 0 1.86 2 Gelatin no acrylic 0 3 5 5 2 0 2.40 3 Acrylic no gelatin 0 0 3 8 4 0 3.07 4 No gelatin no 0 0 5 10 0 0 2.67 acrylic As can be observed, the Wear Index 1 obtained with the lacquer having the combination of gelatin and Acrylic Co polymer was superior to lacquers having gelatin alone, acrylic copolymer alone or lacquer having neither gelatin nor acrylic copolymer.