# 4 Substituted mercapto 2 oxo 1 azetidinesulfonic acid salts and process for their preparation.

## Abstract
Antibacterial activity is exhibited by β lactams having a sulfonic acid salt substituent in the 1 position, an acylamino substituent in the 3 position and a substituted mercapto substituent in the 4 position.

## Claims
Claims 1. 4 Substituted mercapto 2 oxo 1 azetidine Sulfonic acid salts having the formulaEMI46.1 wherein R is hydrogen or methoxy R1 is acyl R2 and R3 are each idependently hydrogen or alkyl, or R2 and R3 when taken together with the carbon atom to which they are attached form a cycloalkyl group R4 is hydrogen, alkyl, aryl, 2,3 or 4 pyridyl, 2 or 3 furyl, 2 or 3 thienyl,EMI46.2 EMI46.3 or C N R5 is hydrogen, alkyl, aryl, arylalkyl, hydroxyl, OeMl, alkoxy, aryloxy, or arylalkoxy R6 and R7 are the same or different and each is hydrogen, alkyl, aryl or arylalkyl M is hydrogen or a cation. 2. A compound in accordance with claim 1 wherein R is hydrogen. 3. A compound in accordance with claim 2 wherein R4 isEMI46.4 4. A compound in accordance with claim 3 wherein R5 is hydrogen, alkyl, aryl, or arylalkyl. 5. A compound in accordance with claim 3 wherein R5 is hydroxyl or O M 1. 6. A compound in accordance with claim 3 wherein R5 is alkoxy, aryloxy or arylalkoxy. 7. A compound in accordance with claim 2 wherein R4 isEMI47.1 8. A compound in accordance with claim 2 wherein R4 is CEN. 9. A compound in accordance with claim 1 wherein R4 isEMI47.2 10. A compound having the formulaEMI47.3 wherein A1NH is amino or a protected amino group, R, R2, R3, R4, R5, R6, R7 and M have the same meaning as in claim 1. 11. A compound according to claim 10 whereinA1NH is amino and M is hydrogen. 12. A compound in accordance with claimsl0 11 whereinR4 isEMI47.4 13. A compound in accordance with claimslO BR 11 whereinR4 isEMI47.5 14. A compound in accordance with claims 10 BR 11 whereinR4 is C N. 15. A compound in accordance with claim 1 a salt of 3R cis R 3 4 ethyl 2,3 dioxo 1 piperazinyl carbonyl amino phenylacetyl amino 2 oxo 1 sulfo 4 azetidinyl thio acetic acid, methyl ester. 16. A compound in accordance with claim 1 a salt of 3R trans R 3 4 ethyl 2,3 dioxo 1 piperazinyl carbonyl amino phenylacetyl amino 2 oxo 1 sulfo 4 azetidinyl thio acetic acid, methyl ester. 17. A compound in accordance with claim 1 a salt of 3R cis Z 3 2 amino 4 thiazolyl methoxyimino acetyl amino 2 oxo 1 sulfo 4 azetidinyl thio acetic acid, methyl ester. 18. A compound in accordance with claim 1 a salt of 3R trans Z 3 2 amino 4 thiazolyl methoxyimino acetyl amino 2 oxo 1 sulfo 4 a etidinyl3thio acetic acid, methyl ester. 19. A compound in accordance with claim 1 a salt of 3R cis R 3 aminooxoacetyl amino 2 thienylacetyl amino 2 oxo 1 sulfo 4 azetidinyl thio acetic acid, methyl ester. 20. A compound in accordance with claim 1 a salt of 3R trans R 3 aminooxoacetyl amino 2 thienylacetyl amino 2 oxo 1 sulfo 4 azetidinyl thio acetic acid, methyl ester. 21. A compound in accordance with claim 1 having the structureEMI48.1 22. A compound in accordance with claim 1 having the structureEMI49.1 23. A compound in accordance with claim 1 having the structureEMI49.2 24. A compound in accordance with claim 1 having the structureEMI49.3 25. A compound in accordance with claim 1 having the structureEMI49.4 26. Use of a compound as set forth in any of claims 1 to 25 having the formulaEMI50.1 wherein R is hydrogen or methoxy R1 is acyl and R2 and R3 are each independently hydrogen or alkyl, or R2 and R3 when taken together with the carbon atom to which they are attached form a cycloalkyl group R4 is hydrogen, alkyl, aryl, 2,3 or 4 pyridyl, 2 or 3 furyl, 2 or 3 thienyl,EMI50.2 EMI50.3 or C N R5 is hydrogen, alkyl, aryl, arylalkyl, hydroxyl, O M1 , alkoxy, aryloxy, or arylalkoxy R6 and R7 are the same or different and each is hydrogen, alkyl, aryl or arylalkyl Me is hydrogen or a cation and is is a cation with the proviso that if Me is hydrogen the R1 group contains a basic function for the preparation of a pharmaceutical composition having an antibacterial effect. 27. A composition comprising an effective amount of a ss lactam as set forth in any of claims 1 to 25 having the formula EMI51.1 wherein R is hydrogen or methoxy R1 is acyl and R2 and R3 are each independently hydrogen or alkyl, or R2 and R3 when taken together with the carbon atom to which they are attached form a cycloalkyl group R4 is hydrogen, alkyl, aryl, 2,3 or 4 pyridyl, 2 or 3 furyl,. 2 or 3 thienyl,EMI51.2 EMI51.3 or CRN R5 is hydrogen, alkyl, aryl, arylalkyl, hydroxyl, O M1 , alkoxy, aryloxy, or arylalkoxy R6 and R7 are the same or different and each is hydrogen, alkyl, aryl or arylalkyl as is hydrogen or a cation and M1 is a cation with the proviso that if M is hydrogen the R1 group contains a basic function and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier therefor. 28. A process for preparing a compound as set forth in any of claims 1 to 9 and claims 15 to 25, characterized by acylating a compound of the formulaEMI51.4 with an R1 acyl group. 29. A process for preparing a compound as set forth in any of claims 10 to 14, characterized by sulfonating a compound of the formulaEMI52.1

## Description
4 StBSTITUTED MERCAPTO 2 OXO 1 AZETIDINESULFONIC ACID SALTS AND PROCESS FOR THEIR PREPARATION Antibacterial activity is exhibited by a lactams having the formulaEMI1.1 In formula I, and throughout the specification, the symbols are as defined below. R is hydrogen or methoxy R1 is acyl R2 and R3 are each independently hydrogen or alkyl, or R2 and R3 when taken together with the carbon atom to which they are attached form a cycloalkyl group R4 is hydrogen, alkyl, aryl, 2,3, or 4pyridyl, 2 or 3 furyl, 2 or 3 thienyl,EMI1.2 R5 is hydrogen, alkyl, aryl, arylalkyl, hydroxyl, O M , alkoxy, aryloxy, or arylalkoxy R6and R7 are the same or different and each is hydrogen, alkyl, aryl or arylalkyl Me is hydrogen or a cation Listed below are definitions of various terms used.to describe the ss lactams of this invention.These definitions apply to the terms as they are used throughout the specification unless they are otherwise limited in specific instances either individually or as part of a larger group. The terms alkyl and alkoxy refer to.both straight and branched chain groups. Those groups having 1 to i6 carbon atoms are preferred. The terms alkanoyl and alkenyl refer to both straight and branched chain groups. Those groups having 1 to 10 carbon atoms are preferred. The terms cycloalkyl and cycloalkenyl refer to groups having 3,4,5,6 or 7 carbon atoms. The term halogen refers to fluorine, chlorine, bromine and iodine. The term ,aryl refers to phenyl and phenyl substituted with 1,2 or 3 amino NH2 , halogen, hydroxyl, trifluoromethyl, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms , or alkoxy of 1 to 4 carbon atoms groups. The term acyl includes all organic radicals derived from an organic acid i.e., a carboxylic acid by removal of the hydroxyl group. Certain acyl groups are, of course preferred but this preference should not be viewed as a limitation of the scope of this invention. Exemplary acyl groups are those acyl groups which have been used in the past to acylate B lactam antibiotics including 6 aminopenicillanic acid and derivatives and 7 aminocephalosporanic acid and derivatives see, for example, Cephalosporins and enicillins, edited by Flynn, Academic Press 1972 , GermanOffenlequnqsschrift 2,716,677, publishedOctober 10, 1978, Belgian patent 867,994, published December 11, 1978, United States patent 4,152,432, issued May 1, 1979, UnitedStates patent 3,971,778, issued July 27, 1976,United States patent 4,172,199, issued October 23, 1979, and British patent 1,348,894, publishedMarch 27, 1974. The portions of these references describing various acyl groups are incorporated herein by reference. The following list of acyl groups is presented to further exemplify the term acyl it should not be regarded as limiting that term.Exemplary acyl groups are a Aliphatic groups having the formulaEMI4.1 wherein R8 is alkyl cycloalkyl alkoxy alkenyl cycloalkenyl cyclohexadienyl or alkyl or alkenyl substituted with one or more halogen, cyano, nitro, amino, mercapto, alkylthio, or cyanomethylthio groups. b Carbocyclic aromatic groups having the formulaEMI4.2 EMI5.1 wherein n is 0, 1, 2 or 3 Rg, R10, and R11 each is independently hydrogen, halogen, hydroxyl, nitro, amino, cyano, trifluoromethyl, alkyl ofl to 4 carbon atoms, alkoxy of 1 to 4 carbon atoms or aminomethyl and R12 is amino, hydroxyl, a carboxyl salt, protected carboxyl, formyloxy, a sulfo salt, a sulfoamino salt, azido, halogen, hydrazino, alkylhydrazino, phenylhydrazino, or alkylthio thioxomethyl thio. Preferred carbocyclic aromatic acyl groups include those having the formulaEMI5.2 EMI6.1 is preferably a carboxyl salt or sulfo salt andEMI6.2 R12 is preferably a carboxyl salt or sulfo salt . c Heteroaromatic groups having the formulaEMI6.3 wherein n is 0, 1, 2 or 3 R12 is as defined above and R13 is a substituted or unsubstituted 5 , 6 or 7 membered heterocyclic ring containing 1,2,3 or 4 preferably 1 or 2 nitrogen, oxygen and sulfur atoms. Exemplary heterocyclic rings are thienyl, furyl, pyrrolyl, pyridinyl, pyrazolyl, pyrazinyl, thiazolyl, morpholinyl, pyrimidinyl and tetrazolyl. Exemplary substituents are halogen, hydroxyl, nitro,.amino, cyano, trifluoromethyl, alkyl of. 1 to 4 carbon atoms, alkoxyEMI7.1 Preferred heteroaromatic acyl groups include those groups of the abpve formulas wherein R13 is 2 amino 4 thiazolyl, 2 amino 5halo 4 thiazolyl, 4 aminopyrimidin 2 yl, 5 amino 1,2,4 thiadiazol 3 yl, 2 thienyl, 2 f uranyl, or 6 aminopyridin 2 yl. d 4 Substituted 2,3 dioxo 1 piper azinyl carbonyl iamino arylacetyl groups having the formulaEMI7.2 wherein R14 is an aromatic group including carbocyclic aromatics such as those of the formulaEMI7.3 and heteroaromatics as included within the definition of R13 and R15 is alkyl, substituted alkyl wherein the alkyl group is substituted with one or more halogen, cyano, nitro, amino or mercapto groups , arylmethyleneamino i.e., N CH R14 wherein R14 is as defined above , arylcarbonylamino i.e.,EMI8.1 wherein R14 is as defined above or alkylcarbonylamino. Preferred I 4 substituted 2,3 dioxo 1 piperazinyl carbonyl amino arylacetyl groups include those wherein R15 is ethyl, phenylmethyleneamino or 2 furylmethyleneamino. e Substituted oxyimino arylacetyl groups having the formulaEMI8.2 wherein R14 is as defined above and R16 is hydrogen, alkyl, cycloalkyl, alkylaminocarbonyl, arylaminocarbonyl i.e.,EMI8.3 wherein R14 is as defined above or substituted alkyl wherein the alkyl group is substituted with 1 or more halogen, cyano, nitro, amino, mercapto, alkylthio, aromatic group as defined by R14 , carboxyl including salts thereof , amido, alkoxycarbonyl, phenylmethoxycarbonyl, diphenylmethoxycarbonyl, hydroxyalkoxyphosphinyl, dihydroxyphosphinyl, hydroxy phenylmethoxy phosphinyl, or dialkoxyphosphinyl substituents . Preferred substituted oxyimino arylacetyl groups include those wherein R14 is 2 amino 4 thiazolyl. Also preferred are those groups wherein R16 is methyl, ethyl, carboxy methyl, 1 carboxy 1 methylethyl or 2,2,2 trifluoroethyl f Acylamino arylacetyl groups having the formulaEMI9.1 . wherein R14 is as defined above and R17 isEMI9.2 amino, alkylamino, cyanoalkyl amino, amido, alkylamido, cyanoalkyl amido,EMI9.3 Preferred acylamino arylacetyl qroups of the above formula include those groups wherein R17 is amino, or amido. Also preferred are those groups wherein R14 is phenyl or 2 thienyl. g 3 Substituted 2 oxo l imidazoli dinyljcarbonyli aminoiarylacetyl groups having the formulaEMI10.1 wherein R14 is as defined above and R18 is hydrogen, alkylsulfonyl, arylmethyleneamino i.e., N CH R14 wherein R14 is as defined above ,EMI10.2 wherein R19 is hydrogen, alkyl or halogen substituted alkyl , aromatic group as defined by R14 above , alkyl or substituted alkyl wherein the alkyl group is substituted with one or more halogen, cyano, nitro, amino or mercapto groups . Preferred 3 substituted 2 oxo l imidazoli dinyl carbonyl aminoiarylacetyl groups of the above formula include those wherein R14 is phenyl or 2 thienyl. Also preferred are those groups wherein R18 is hydrogen, methylsulfonyl, phenylmethyleneamino or 2 furylmethyleneamino. The term cation , as used throughout the specification, refers to any positively charged atom or group of atoms, The SO3 M substituent on the nitrogen atom of the B lactams of this invention encompasses all sulfonic acid salts.Pharmaceutically acceptable salts are, of course, preferred, although other salts are also useful in purifying the products of this invention or as intermediates for the preparation of pharmaceutically acceptable salts. The cationic portion of the sulfonic acid salts of this invention can be obtained from either organic or inorganic bases. Such cationic portion includes, but is not limited to, the following ions ammonium substituted ammonium, such as alkylammonium e.g., tetra n butylammonium, referred to hereinafter as tetrabutylammonium alkali metal, such as lithium, sodium and potassium alkaline earth metal, such as calcium and magnesium pyridinium dicyclohexylammonium hydrabaminium benzathinium N methyl D glucaminium. As set forth in formula I, and in the definitions following formula I, my can be hydrogen.Such compounds are often referred to in the art as inner salts by virtue of a positive and negative charge in the molecule. This invention is directed to those B lactams which have been described above, wherein the stereochemistry at the chiral center in the 3 position of the S lactam nucleus is the same as the configuration at the carbon atom in the 6 position of naturally occurring penicillins e.g., penicillin G and as the confiquration at the carbon atom in the 7 position of naturally occurring cephamycins e.g., cephamycin C . The B lactams of formula I have activity against a range of gram negative and gram positive organisms. The compounds of this invention can be used as agents to combat bacterial infections including urinary tract infections and respiratory infections in mammalian species, such as domesticated animals e,g., dogs, cats, cows, horses, and the like and humans. For combating bacterial infections in mammals a compound of this invention can be administered to a mammal in need thereof in an amount of about 1.4 mg kg day to about 350 mg kg day, preferably about 14 mg kg day to about 100 mg kg day. All modes of administration which have been used in the past to deliver penicillins and cephalosporins to the site of the infection are also contemplated for use with the novel 6 lactams of this invention. Such methods of administration include oral, intravenous, intramuscular, and as a suppository. The compound of formula I can be prepared from an azetidine having the formulaEMI12.1 wherein A1 is a nitrogen protecting group, e.g., triphenylmethyl, and A2 is an alkyl or aryl group. Reaction of an azetidine of formulaII with a thiolate having the formulaEMI13.1 yields a mixture of diastereomers of the formulasEMI13.2 andSeparation of the above diastereomers can be accomplished using conventional chromatographic or fractional crystallization techniques. The addition of a sulfo SO3 group to the l position of a compound of formula IVa or IVb or the R methoxy counterpart yields the corresponding compound having the formulaEMI13.3 Introduction of the sulfo substituent can be accomplished, by sulfonation as for example by reacting a compound of formula IVa or Nb or the Rawthoxy counterpart with a complex of pyridine and sulfur trioxide. The reaction can be run in an organic solvent or in a mixture of organic solvents, preferably a mixture of a polar solvent such as dimethylformamide and a halogenated hydrocarbon such as dichloromethane.This reaction yields a compound of formula V wherein M is pyridinium ion. Instead of using a pre formed complex of pyridine and sulfur trioxide, the complex can be formed in situ, e.g., using chlorosulfonyltrimethylsilyl ester and pyridine as reagents. Alternatively, a complex of dirnethylformamide sulfur trioxide, 2 picoline sulfur trioxide or 2,6 lutidine sulfur trioxide can be used. Using conventional techniques e.g., ion exchange resins, crystallization, or ion pair extraction the pyridinium salt formed by the above procedure can be converted to other salts. These techniques can also be used to convert the products of formula I, or any of the intermediates described herein, to other salts. A second method for introducinq the sulfo group to the l position of an azetidine of formula IVa or IVb comprises first silylating the compound and then subjecting the silated compound to a silyl interchange reaction.Exemplary silylating agents are monosilyltrifluoroacetamide, trimethylsilylchloride triethylamine, and bis trimethylsilyltrifluoroacetamide, and an exemplary reagent useful for the silyl interchange reaction is trimethylsilyl chloro sulfonate. Deprotection of an azetidine of formula V yields a zwitterion having the formulaEMI15.1 The deprotection techniques used are conventional, and will depend on the particular protecting group A1 present. Treatment with acid e.g., formic acid or trifluoroacetic acid cleaves a triphenylmethyl or a t butoxycarbonyl protect in9 group. Treatment with hydrogen fusing a catalyst such as palladium cleaves a benzyloxycarbonyl protecting group. Treatment with phosgene or phosphorous pentachloride cleaves an amide protecting group. The zwitterions of formula VI are novel intermediates, and as such, constitute an integral part of this invention. Conventional acylation techniques can be used to prepare the products of formula I wherein R is hydrogen from a zwitterion of formula VI. Exemplary acylation techniques include reaction with a carboxylic acid R 1 OH , or corresponding carboxylic acid halide or carboxylic acid anhydride. The reaction with a carboxylic acid proceeds most readily in the presence of a carbodiimide and a substance capable of forming an active ester in situ such as N hydroxybenzotriazole. In those instances when the acyl group R1 contains reactive functionality such as amino or carboxyl groups it may be necessary to first protect those functional groups, then carry out the acylation reaction, and finally deprotect the result ing product. Variations of the above described synthetic route some of which are described in the examples presented below will be apparent to the practitioner of this invention. For example, a compound of formula IVa or IVb can be deprotected and then protected with a different amino protecting group before proceeding with the remaining synthetic procedure. The B lactams of formula I wherein R is methoxy can be prepared from the corresponding compound of formula I wherein R is hydrogen. Elalogenation of the amide nitrogen of a non methoxylated compound of formula I yields, in situ, an intermediate having the formulaEMI16.1 Reaction of an intermediate of formula VII with a methoxylating agent, e.g., an alkali metal methoxide yields a product of formula I wherein R is methoxy. The reaction can be run in an organic solvent, e.g., a polar organic solvent such as dimethylformamide, at a reduced temperature. An alternative synthesis for preparing the compounds of formula I wherein R is methoxy comprises first alkoxylating a compound of formula IVa or IVb wherein A1NH is a carbamate e.g., A1 is benzyloxyearbonyl and then introducing a sulfo group in the l position of the resulting compound. Deprotection and acylation, using the procedures described above, yields the products of formula I whereinR is alkoxy. Alternative syntheses for the preparation of the products of this invention are available.For example, compounds of formula I wherein R4EMI17.1 can be used as intermediates to obtain corresponding products of formula I whereinEMI17.2 wherein R5 is alkoxy, aryloxy, arylalkoxy or ii EMI17.3 Standard coupling reactions are employed. The following examples are specific embodiments of this invention. Example 1 3R cis 3 Amino 2 oxo 1 sulfo 4 azetidinyl thio acetic acid, methyl ester Method IA 3R cis 2 Oxo 3 triphenylmethyl amino 4 azetidinyljthio acetic acid, methyl ester 3R cis 2 Oxo 3 triphenylmethyl amino 4 azetidinylmethyl sulfone 20.35 g is dissolved in 100 ml of acetone and 6.4 g of the sodium salt of mercaptoacetic acid, methyl ester, is added in small portions. After the addition is complete, the solution is stirred for 3 hours at 400C. The acetone is distilled off and the residue is dissolved in ethyl acetate and extracted three times with brine. The organic layer is dried over Na2SO4 and stripped off.The remaining oil is chromatographed on 400 g of silica, eluting with 9 1 chloroform ethyl acetate, and yielding 7.3 g of the cis product, 6.4 g of the corresponding trans product and 2.6 g of a mixture of the cis and trans products.B 3R cis 2 Oxo 1 sulfo 3 triphenylmethyl amino 4 azetidinyl thio acetic acid, methyl ester, tetrabutylammonium salt 3R cis 2 Oxo 3 triphenylmethyl amino 4 azetidinyl thio acetic acid, methyl ester 0.43 g and 3.6 mmole of a complex of pyridinesulfur trioxide are dissolved in 10 ml of dimethylformamide dried over molecular sieves and stirred for 3 hours at 60 0C and 8 hours at room temperature. Dimethylformamide is stripped off in vacuo and the oily residue is dissolved in a mixture of 60 ml 0.5 M potassium phosphate buffer pH 5.5 and 30 ml of dichloromethane.Tetrabutylammonium hydrogen sulfate 1 mmole is added and the organic layer is separated.The aqueous phase is again extracted with 50 ml of dichloromethane. The combined organic layers are dried and dichloromethane is distilled off, yielding 0.6 g of the title compound.C 3R cis 3 Amino 2 oxo l sulfo 2 azetidinyl thio acetic acid, methyl ester 3R cis 2 Oxo l sulfo 3 triphenylmethyl amino 4 azetidinyl thiolacetic acid, methyl ester, tetrabutylammonium salt 0.3 g is dissolved in 1 ml of dichloromethane, 8 ml of 98 formic acid is added, and the mixture is stirred for 2 hours. The solution is poured into 30 ml of ether, yieldinq 0.06 g of the title compound, melting point 103 105 C, dec. Method II A 3R cis. 3 Amino 2 oxo 4 azetidinyl thio acetic acid, methyl ester, 4 methylbenzenesulfonate 3R cis 2 Oxo 3 triphenylmethyl amino 4 azetidinyl thio acetic acid, methyl ester 4.33 g and 1.92 q of p toluenesulfonic acid monohydrate are stirred at 0 C for 3 hours in 50 ml of 1 1 acetone dichloromethane, yielding 3.55 g of the title compound, melting point 146 C, dec. B 3R cis 3 1,l Dimethylethoxy carbonyl aminol 2 oxo 4 azetidinyljthio acetic acid, methyl ester 3R cis 93 Amino 2 oxo 4 azetifinyl thio acetic acid, methyl ester, 4 methylbenzenesulfonate 3.63 q and 3.03 g of triethylamine are dissolved in 30 ml of t butanol and a solution of 3.28 g of di t butylpyrocarbonate in 10 ml of tetrahydrofuran is added. The mixture is stirred for 8 hours and solvents are distilled off.The oily residue is dissolved in 50 ml of ethyl acetate, which is extracted with aqueous citric acid and water, dried over Na2SO4 and the ethyl acetate is stripped off. The oily residue is extracted with petroleum ether and crystallized after chromatography on silica using 6 4 chloroform ethyl acetate as eluent, yielding 2.4 a of the title compound, melting point 65 680C. C 3R cis l,l Dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 2 oxo 1 sulfo 4 azetidinyl thio acetic acid, methyl ester, tetrabutylammonium salt Following the procedure described in part B of method I, but substituting 3R cis 3 1,1 dimethylethoxy carbonylEamino 2 oxo 4 azetidinyl thiojacetic acid, methyl ester for 3R cis 2 oxo3 triphenylmethyl0amino 4 azetidinyl thio acetic acid, methyl ester, yields the title compound as an oil. D 3R cis 3 Amino 2 oxo 1 sulfo 4 azetidinyl thio acetic acid, methyl ester Following the procedure described in part C of method I, but substituting 5.22 g of 3R cis l,l dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 2 oxo l sulfo 4 azetidinyl thiol acetic acid, methyl ester, tetrabutylammonium salt for 3R cis 2 oxo l sulfo 3 triphenylmethyl amino 4 azetidinyll thiolacetic acid, methyl ester, tetrabutylammonium salt, yields 1.90 g of the title compound, m.p. 103 1050C dec. Example 2 3R trans 3 Amino 2 oxo 1 sulfo 4 azetidinyl thio acetic acid, methyl ester A 3R trans 2 Oxo 3 triphenylmethyl amino 4 azetidinyl thio3acetic acid, methyl ester 3R cis 2 Oxo 3 triphenylmethyl amino 4azetidinyl methyl sulfone 20.35 g is dissolved in 100 ml of acetone and 6.4 g of the sodium salt of mercaptoacetic acid, methyl ester, is added in small portions. After the addition is complete, the solution is stirred for 3 hours at 40 0C. The acetone is distilled off and the residue is dissolved in ethyl acetate and extracted three times with brine. The organic layer is dried over Na2SO4 and stripped off.The remaining oil is chromatographed on 400 g of silica, eluting with 9 1 chloroform ethyl acetate, and yielding 6.4 g of the trans product, 7.3 g of the corresponding cis product and 2.6 g of a mixture of the cis and trans products.B 3R trans 3 Amino 2 oxo 4 azetidinyl thio acetic acid, methyl ester, 4 methylbenzenesulfonate Following the procedure of example 1, part B of method II, but utilizing 3R trans t2 oxo 3 triphenylmethyl amino 4 azetidinylJ thio acetic acid, methyl ester as the starting material, and utilizing ether to precipitate the product, yields the title compound, melting point 1460C. C 3R trans 3 1,1 Dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 2 oxo 4 azetidinyl thio acetic acid, methyl ester Following the procedure of example 1, part C of method II, but utilizing 3R trans 3 amino 2 oxo 4 azetidinyl thio acetic acid, methyl ester, 4 methylbenzenesulfonate as the starting material, yields the title compound, melting point 81 84 C, dec.D 3R trans 1,1 Dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 2 oxo l sulfo 4 azetidinyl thio acetic acid, methyl ester, tetrabutylammonium salt Following the procedure described in example 1, part B of method I, but substituting 3Rtrans 93 1,1 dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 2 oxo 4 azetidinyl thio acetic acid, methyl ester for 3R cis 92 Oxo 3 triphenylmethyl amino 4 azetidinyl thio acetic acid, methyl ester, yields the title compound as an oil.E 3R trans 3 Amino 2 oxo 1 sulfo 4 azetidinyl thio acetic acid, methyl ester Following the procedure described in example 1, part C of method I, but utilizing 3Rtrans 91,1 dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 2 oxo l sulfo 4 azetidinyl thio acetic acid, methyl ester, tetrabutylammonium salt as the starting material, yields the title compound melting point 76 81 C. Example 3 3R cis R 3 94 Ethyl 3,3 dioxo 1 piper azinyl carbonyllamino phenylacetyllamino 2 oxo 1 sulfo 4 azetidinyl thio acetic acid methyl ester,potassium salt 3R cis 3 Amino 2 oxo 1 sulfo 4 azetidinyl thio acetic acid, methyl ester 542 mg see example 1 , 444 mg of R a 1 4 ethyl 2,3 dioxo 1 piperazinyl carbonyl amino benzeneacetic acid, 202 mg of triethylamine and 350 mg of N hydroxybenzotriazole are dissolved in 10 ml of dimethylformamide. After cooling in an ice bath, 412 mg of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide dissolved in 3 ml of tetrahydrofuran is added dropwise while stirring.After 90 minutes the dicyclohexylurea which forms is filtered off and dimethylformamide is distilled off in vacuo bath temperature 50 0C . The remaining oil is dissolved in 30 ml of acetone and 0.7 g of potassium perfluorobutane sulfate is added, causing 0.7 g of the title compound to precipitate.Purification is performed by column chromatography on HP 20 resin using water and 9 1 water acetone as eluents. The yield of title compound, melting point 1670C, dec., is 0.27 g after lyophilization. Example 4 3R trans R t3 4 Ethyl 2,3 dioxo 1 piperazinyl carbonyl amino phenylacetyl amino 2 oxo 1 sulfo 4 azetidinyl thio acetic acid, methyl ester, potassium salt Following the procedure described inExample 3 but utilizing trans 1 3 amino 2 oxo l sulfo 4 azetidinyl thio acetic acid, methyl ester as the starting azetidine yields the title compound, melting point 150 C. Example 5 3R cis Z 3 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl methoxy imino acetyl amino 2 oxo 1 sulfo 4 azetidinyl thio acetic acid, methyl ester, potassium salt Following the procedure described in example 3, but substituting Z 2 amino a methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetic acid for R alpha 4 ethyl 2,3 dioxo 1 piperazinyl carbonyl amino benzeneacetic acid, yields the title compound, melting point 173 C, dec. Example 6 3R trans Z 3 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl methoxyimino acetyl amino 2 oxo 1 sulfo4 azetidinyl thio acetic acid, methyl ester, potassium salt Following the procedure described in example 3, but utilizing trans 3 amino2 oxo l sulfo 4 azetidinyl thio acetic acid, methyl ester as the starting azetidine and substituting Z 2 amino a methoxyimino 4thiazoleacetic acid for R a 4 ethyl 2,3 dioxo l piperazinyl carbonyl amino benzeneacetic acid, yields the title compound, melting point 153 C, dec. Example 7 3R cis R 3 Aminooxoacetyl0amino 2thienylacetyl amino 2 oxo 1 sulfo 4 azetidinyl thio acetic acid, methyl ester, potassium salt Following the procedure described in example 3, but substituting R a l amino oxoacetyl amino 2 thiopheneacetic acid for R a 4 ethyl 2,3 dioxo 1 piperazinyl carbonyl amino benzeneacetic acid, yields the title compound, melting point 137 C, dec. Example 8 3R trans R 3 t Aminooxoacetyl amino 2 thienylacetyl amino 2 oxo 1 sulfo 4 axetidinyl thio acetic acid, methyl ester, potassium salt Following the procedure described in example 3, but utilizing trans 3 amino 2oxo l sulfo 4 azetidinyl thio acetic acid, methyl ester as the starting azetidine and substituting R a t aminooxoacetyl amino 2 thiopheneacetic acid for R a 4 ethyl 2,3 dioxo l piperazinyl carbonyl amino benzeneacetic acid, yields the title compound, melting point 158 0C, dec. Examples 9 26 Following the procedure of Example 1 method I , but substituting the compound listed in column I for the sodium salt of mercaptoacetic acid, methyl ester, and the procedure ofExample 3, but substituting the acid listed in column II for R a 4 ethyl 2,3 dioxo 1 piperazinyl carbonyl amino benzeneacetic acid, yields the compound listed in column III.Examples 10, 11, 19, 20, 25 and 26 require a deprotection step at the end of the reaction sequence. Deprotection is accomplished in examples 10, 19, 20, 25 and 26 by treatment of the protected compound with trifluoroacetic acid and anisole at 150C. Deprotection is accomplished in example 11 by catalytic 10 palladium on charcoal hydrogenation of the protected compound. Column I Column II Column III EMI28.1 Column I Column II Column III EMI29.1 Column I Column II Column III EMI30.1 Column I Column II Column III EMI31.1 EMI32.1 Example 27 3R cis R 3 4 Ethyl 2,3 dioxo 1piperazinyl carbonyl amino phenylacetyl amino 3 methoxy 2 oxo 1 sulfo 4 azetidinyl thio acetic acid, methyl ester, potassium salt To a stirred solution of 0.3 mmole of lithium methoxide in 0.4 ml of dry methanol is added 2.5 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran.This is cooled to 780C and 3R cis R 3 4 ethyl 2,3 dioxo 1 piperazinyl carbonyl amino phenylacetyl amino 2 oxo 1 sulfo 4 azetidinyl thioJacetic acid, methyl ester, tetrabutylammonium salt 0.1 mmole see example 3 in 2 ml of tetrahydrofuran is added over l0seconds, followed by 16 l of t butyl hypochlorite. The mixture is stirred for 15 minutes at 78 C and 25 ml of 0.5 M monobasic potassium phosphate is added. The mixture is warmed to room temperature and the pH is lowered to 5.5 with 1N hydrochloric acid. The solvents are removed and the residue is extracted with methanol. Removal of methanol in vacuo gives a residue which is extracted with acetonitrile. Removal of the solvent under reduced pressure yields the title compound. Example 28 3R cis 3 Amino 4 4 chlorophenyl methyl thio 2 oxo 1 azetidinesulfonic acid, inner saltA 3R cis 4 4 Chlorophenyl methyl thio 3 triphenylmethyl amino 2 azetidinone and 3R trans 4 4 chlorophenyl methyl thio 3 triphenylmethyl amino 2 azetidinone 3R cis 2 Oxo 3 triphenylmethyl amino 4 azetidinyl methyl sulfone 20.3 g is dissolved in 50 ml of dry methanol. A solution of 6.5 ml of p chlorobenzylmercaptan and 2.8 g of potassium hydroxide in 50 ml of methanol is added dropwise at 50C stirring is continued for 1 hour. The solvent is distilled off yielding an oily residue which is dissolved in 200 ml of ethyl acetate and ice water. Citric acid 3 g is added and stirred for 10 minutes.The organic phase is dried and evaporated yielding 25 g of a crude mixture of the title compound and the corresponding trans isomer as an oil. Separation of the isomers is accomplished using column chromatography on silica, eluting with 9 1 chloroform ethyl acetate and yielding 10.5 g of the cis product and 6.5 g of the corresponding trans product as oils. B 3R cis 4 4 Chlorophenyl methyl thio 2 oxo 3 triphenylmethyl amino 1 azetidinesulfonic acid, tetrabutylammonium salt Following the procedure of example 29B, but substituting 3R cis 4 4 chlorophenyl methyl thio 3 triphenylmethyl amino 2azetidinone for the corresponding trans isomer, yields the title compound.C 3R cis 3 Amino 4 4 chlorophenyl methyl thio 2 oxo l azetidinesulfonic acid, inner salt 3R cis 4 4 Chlorophenyl methyl thio 2 oxo 3 triphenylmethyl amino 1 azetidine sulfonic acid, tetrabutylammonium salt 9.2 g is dissolved in 20 ml of dichloromethane and 10 ml of formic acid is added and stirred for 30 minutes at OOC. The solution is then poured into 250 ml of dry ether and 2.8 g of the title compound precipitates out melting point 80 C, dec. Example 29 3S trans 3 Amino 4 4 chlorophenyl methyl thio 2 oxo l azetidinesulfonic acid, inner saltA 3R trans 4 4 Chlorophenyl methyl thio 3 triphenylmethyl aminol 2 azetidinone The title compound is prepared as described in example 28A. B 3R trans 4 4 Chlorophenyl methyl thio 2 oxo 3 triphenylmethyl amino 1 azetidinesulfonic acid, tetrabutylammonium salt 3R trans 4 4 Chlorophenyl methyl thio 3 triphenylmethyl amino 2 azetidinone 6.3 g and 4.17 g of a complex of pyridine and sulfur trioxide are dissolved in 20 ml of dry dimethylformamide, stirred for 1 hour at 70 C and then for 12 hours at room temperature.The clear solution is then poured into 200 ml of ice water1 4.3 g of tetrabutylammonium hydrogen sulfate is added, and the pH is adjusted to 5.5 with 1N potassium hydroxide.The solution is extracted twice with 50 ml portions of dichloromethane. From the dried organic phase 10 g of the title compound is obtained as an oil after evaporation.C 3R trans 3 Amino 4 94 chlorophenyl methyl thio 2 oxo 1 azetidinesulfonic acid, inner salt Following the procedure of example 28C, but substituting 3trans 4 4 chlorophenyl methyljthio 2 oxo 3 triphenylmethyl amino l azetidinesulfonic acid, tetrabutylammonium salt for the corresponding cis isomer yields the title compound, melting point 740C, dec. Example 30 3R 3 alpha ,4ss Z 3 2 Amino 4 thiazoly methoxyimino acetylZamino 4 1 4 chlorophenyl methyl thio 2 oxo 1 azetidinesulfonic acid, potassium salt Following the procedure described in example 3, but substituting 3R trans 3 amino4 4 chlorophenyl methyl thio 2 oxo 1azetidinesulfonic acid, inner salt see example 29 for 3R cis 3 amino 2 oxo 1 sulfo 4 azetidinyl thio acetic acid, methyl ester and Z 2 aminoa methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetic acid for R alpha 4 ethyl 2,3 dioxo 1 piperazinyl carbonyl amino benzeneacetic acid, yields the title compound, melting point 162 C, dec. Example 31 3R 3 alpha Z 3 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl methoxy imino acetyl amino 4 chlorophenyl methyl thio 2 oxo l azetidinesulfonic acid, potassium salt Following the procedure described in example 3, but substituting 3R cis 3 amino4 chlorophenyl methyl thio 2 oxo 1azetidinesulfonic acid, inner salt see example 28 for 3R cis 3 amino 2 oxo l sulfo 4 azetidinyl thio acetic acid, methyl ester and Z 2 amino a methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetic acid for R alpha 4 ethyl 2,3 dioxo 1 piperazinyl carbonyl amino benzeneacetic acid, yields the title compound, melting point 183 1850C, dec. Example 32 3R cis 3 I l,l Dmethylethoxy carbonyl amino 2 oxo 4 methylthio 1 azetidinesulfonic acid, tetrabutylammonium saltA 3R cis 4 Methylthio 3 triphenylmethyl amino 2 azetidinone and 3S trans 4 methylthio 3 triphenylmethyl amino 2 azetidinone 3R cis 2 Oxo 3 triphenylmethyl amino 4 azetidinylZmethyl sulfone 20.4 g is dissolved in 200 ml of methanol at a temperature of OOC A solution of 3.6 g of sodium methylthiolate in 100 ml of methanol is added dropwise. After one hour the reaction mixture is filtered and the solvent is evaporated in vacuo leaving anoilyresidue which is dissolved in 100 ml of ethyl acetate and extracted twice with 50 ml portions of water.Drying of the organic phase and evaporation yields 29 g of an oily residue which is chromatographed on a 400 g silica column. Elution with 8 2 dichloromethane ethyl acetate yields 9 g of the cis product, 5 g of the trans product and 7 g of a mixture of the two. B 3R cis 3 Amino 4 methylthio 2 azetidinone, 4 methylbenzenesulfonate salt 3R cis 4 Methylthio 3 triphenylmethyl amino 2 azetidinone 10 g and 5.07 g of 4 methylbenzenesulfonic acid monohydrate are stirred in 500 ml of dry acetone at 50C for 2 hours. Ethyl ether 50 ml is added and the title compound precipitates melting point 145 C, dec.C 3R cis 3 1,1 Dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 4 methylthio 2 azetidinone 3R cis 3 Amino 4 methylthio 2 azetidinone, 4 methyLbenzenesulfonate salt 6.5 g is dissolved in 30 ml of t butanol and 10 ml of tetrahydrofuran cooled to 0 C. Triethylamine 4.3 g is added and 5.3 g of t butyl pyrocarbonate is then added dropwise over a 15 minute period. After 3 hours stirring at room temperature, the solvent is distilled off and the residue is dissolved in ethyl acetate, and washed with aqueous citric acid and water. The organic phase is evaporated in vacuo. Crystallization with ether petroleum ether yields 4 g of the title compound, melting point 112 C, dec. D 3R cis 3 l,1 Dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 4 methylthio 2 oxo 1 azetidinesulfonic acid, tetrabutylammonium salt 3R cis 3 1,1 Dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 4 methylthio 2 azetidinone 220 mg and 320 mg of a complex of pyridine and sulfur trioxide are dissolved in 15 ml of absolute dimethylformamide, stirred for 12 hours at room temperature, and poured into 100 ml of ice water. Tetrabutylammonium hydrogen sulfate 340 mg is added and the pH is adjusted to 5.3 with 1N potassium hydroxide.Extraction with dichloromethane yields 0.43 g of the title compound, melting point 128 C, dec. Example 33 3R trans 3 1 ,l Dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 2 oxo 4 methylthio 1 azetidinesulfonic acid, tetrabutylammonium salt Following the procedure of example 32, but utilizing the trans isomer prepared in part A yields the title compound, melting point 940C, dec. Example 34 3R 3 alpha Z 3 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl methoxyimino acetyliamino 4 methylthio 2 oxo l azetidinesulfonic acid, potassium saltA 3R cis 4 Methylthio 3 triphenylmethyl amino 2 oxo l azetidinesulfonic acid, tetrabutylammonium salt 3R cis 4 Methylthio 3 triphenylmethyl0amino 2 azetidinone 1.87 g see example 32A and 1.2 g of a complex of pyridine and sulfur trioxide are dissolved in 15 ml of dimethylformamide and heated for 10 minutes to 70 C.The clear solution is then cooled to 5 C, stirred for 4 hours and poured into 100 ml of ice water. Tetrabutylammonium hydrogen sulfate is added and the pH is adjusted to 5.5.Extraction with dichloromethane yields 2.6 g of the title compound as an oil.B 3R cis 3 Amino 4 methylthio 2 oxo 1 azetidinesulfonic acid, inner salt 3R cis 4 Methylthio 3 triphenylmethyl amino 2 oxo l azetidinesulfonic acid, tetrabutylammonium salt 2.4 g is dissolved in 10 ml of dichloromethane and 2.5 ml of formic acid is added. The solution is stirred at 100C for 30 minutes and poured into 100 ml of ether.Crude product 0.7 g precipitates and is immediately used in part C. C E3R f3a,4a Z 11 3 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl methoxyimino acetyl amino 4 chlorophenyl methyl thio 2 oxo 1 azetidinesulfonic acid, potassium salt 3R cis 3 Amino 4 methylthio 2 oxol azetidinesulfonic acid, inner salt 420 mg , 404 mg of Z 2 amino a methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetic acid, 202 mg of triethylamine and 300 mg of N hydroxybenzotriazole are dissolved in 10 ml of dimethylformamide and stirred at 5 C. A solution of 412 mg of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide in 5 ml of tetrahydrofuran is added dropwise. After stirring for 1 hour dicyclohexylurea is filtered off and the solvent is distilled off in vacuo. The oily residue is dissolved in acetone, 680 mg of potassium perfluorobutanesulfonate is added and 530 mg of crude product precipitates.The crude product is chromatographed on HP20, using water as eluent, and yielding 130 mg of the title compound, melting point 193 C, dec. Example 35 3R 3a,4ss Z 3 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl methoxyimino acetyl amino 4 methylthio 2oxo l azetidinesulfonic acid, potassium salt Following the procedure of example 34, but substituting 3R trans 4 methylthio 3 triphenylmethyl amino 2 azetidinone see example 32A for the corresponding cis isomer, yields the title compound, melting point 1950C, dec. Examples 36 40 Following the procedure of Example 34 C and substituting therein the reactants shown in the table below, the product shown is obtained.In Example 36, the procedure of Example 34 C is varied by deleting treatment with potassium perfluorobutanesulfonate and instead treating first with trifluoroacetic acid to remove the diphenylmethyl protecting group and then treating with potassium 2 ethylhexaneoate to form the potassium salt. EMI44.1 m.p. 182 C dec. EMI45.1 m.p. 193 C dec. EMI45.2