# Beta Lactams.

## Abstract
Antibacterial activity is exhibited by β lactams having a phosphinic or phosphonic substituent in the 1 position and an acylamino substituent in the 3 position.

## Claims
Claims 1. 2 Oxo 1 substituted sulfonyl amino carbonyl azetidines having aEMI124.1 substituent in the 1 position and an amino substituent or an acylamino substituent in the 3 position, or a sÅalt thereof wherein is hydrogen, alkyl, substituted alkyl, phenyl, or substituted phenyl and. R6 is hydroxy, alkoxy, substituted alkyl oxy, phenyloxy, substituted phenyl oxy, alkyl, substituted alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, heteroaryl, amino, substituted amino, alkylthio, substituted alkyl thio, phenylthio, substituted phenyl thio, 1 ethoxycarbonyloxy ethoxy, 1,3dihydro 3 oxo l isobenzofuranyloxy,EMI124.2 EMI124.3 wherein R is hydrogen or alkyl, R is alkyl or phenyl, R is hydrogen, methyl or phenyl, and RiV is hydrogen or together with R is CH2 3 or CH2 5 . 2. A ss lactam in accordance with claim 1 having aEMI124.4 substituent in. the l position, an amino substituent or acylamino substituent in the 3 position, and a methoxy substituent in the 3 position, or a salt thereof. 3. A ss lactam in accordance with claim 1 having aEMI125.1 substituent, wherein R5 is methyl or ethyl, in the l position and an amino substituent or acylamino substituent in the 3 position, or a salt thereof. 4. A ss lactam in accordance with claim 1 having the formulaEMI125.2 or a salt thereof, wherein R1 is acyl R2is hydrogen or methoxy R3 and R4 are the same or different and each is hydrogen, alkyl, cycloalkyl, phenyl or substituted phenyl, or one or R3 and R4 is hydrogen and the other is alkoxycarbonyl, alken l yl, alkyn l yl, 2 phenylethenyl, 2 phenylethynyl, carboxyl, CH2X1 wherein X1 is azido, amino, hydroxy, alkanoylamino, alkylsulfonyloxy, phenylsulfonyloxy, substituted phenyl sulfonyloxy, phenyl, substituted phenyl, halogen, benzylthio, substituted phenyl methylthio, triphenylmethylthio, cyano or mercapto , S X2 or D X2 wherein X2 is alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, alkanoyl, phenylcarbonyl, substituted phenyl carbonyl, or heteroarylcarbonyl , orEMI126.1 wherein one of X3 and X4 is hydrogen and the other is hydrogen or alkyl, or X3 and X4 when taken together with the carbon atom to which they are attached form a cycloalkyl group and X5 is formyl, alkanoyl, phenylcarbonyl, substituted phenyl carbonyl, phenylalkylcarbonyl, substituted phenyl alkylcarbonyl, carboxyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, substituted amino carbonyl, or cyano B5is hydrogen, alkyl, substituted alkyl, phenyl, or substituted phenyl and R6 is hydroxy, alkoxy, substituted alkyl oxy, phenyloxy, substituted phenyl oxy, alkyl, substituted alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, heteroaryl, amino, substituted amino, alkylthio, substituted alkyl thio, phenylthio, substituted phenyl thio, j ethoxycarbonyloxy ethoxy, 1,3EMI126.2 wherein R is hydrogen or alkyl, R is alkyl or phenyl, R is hydrogen, methyl or phenyl, andRiV is hydrogen or together with B is CH2 3or CH2 5 .. 5. A ss lactam in accordance with claim 4 wherein R3 and R4 are the same or different and each is hydrogen, alkyl, cycloalkyl, phenyl or substituted phenyl. 6. A B lactam in accordance with claim 4 wherein one of R3 and R4 is hydrogen and the other is methyl. 7. A ss lactam in accordance with claim 4 wherein R1 is Z 2 amino 4 thiazolyl methoxy imino acetyl . 8. A B lactam in accordance with claim 4 wherein R1 is Z 2 amino 4 thiazolyl 1 carboxy 1 methylethoxy imino acetyl . 9. A ss lactam in accordance with claim 4 having the formulaEMI127.1 or a salt thereof, wherein R5 is methyl or ethyl. 10. A B lactam in accordance with claim 9 wherein R3 and R4 are the same or different and each is hydrogen, alkyl, cycloalkyl, phenyl or substituted phenyl. 11. A B lactam in accordance with claim 9 wherein R3 and R4 each is hydrogen. 12. A ss lactam in accordance with claim 9 wherein one of R3 and R4 is hydrogen and the other is methyl. 13. A ss lactam in accordance with claim 4 having the formulaEMI128.1 or a salt thereof, wherein R6 isEMI128.2 14. The B lactam in accordance with claim 4, 3S Z 3 2 amino 4 thiazolyl methoxyimino acetyl amino 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester. 15. The ss lactam in accordance with claim 4, a salt of 3S Z 3 2 amino 4 thiazolyl methoxyimino acetyl amino 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester. 16. The B lactam in accordance with claim 4, a salt of 3S Z 2 1 2 amino 4 thiazolyl 2 E l hydroxymethoxyphosphinyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methyl propanoic acid. 17. The 6 lactam in accordance with claim 4, 3S 3 alpha Z ,4ss 2 1 2 amino 4 thiazolyl 2 4 methyl 2 oxo 1 hydroxymethoxyphosphinyl 3azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2methylpropanoic acid. 18. The ss lactam in accordance with claim 4, a salt of 3S 3 alpha Z ,4ss 2 1 2 amino 4 thiazolyl 2 1 hydroxyethoxyphosphinyl 4methyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid. 19. The ss lactam in accordance with claim 4, 3S 3 alpha Z ,4ss 2 1 2 amino 4 thiazolyl 2 1 2,2 dimethyl 1 oxopropoxy methoxy methoxyphosphinyl 2 methyl 4 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid. 20. The ss lactam in accordance with claim 4, 3S Z 3 2 amino 4 thiazolyl methoxyimino acetyl amino 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, 2,2 dimethyl l oxopropoxy methyl ester, methyl ester. 21. The B lactam in accordance with claim 4, a salt of 3S Z 2 1 2 amino 4 thiazolyl 2 1 ethoxyhydroxyphosphinyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid. 22. A B lactam in accordance with claim 1 having the formulaEMI129.1 wherein R2 is hydrogen or methoxy R3 and R4 are the same or different and each is hydrogen, alkyl, cycloalkyl, phenyl or substituted phenyl, or one of R3 and R4 is hydrogen and the other is alkoxycarbonyl, alken l yl, alkyn l yl, 2 phenylethenyl, 2 phenylethynyl, halogen, carboxyl, CH2X1 wherein X1 is azido, amino, hydroxy, alkanoylamino, alkylsulfonyloxy, phenylsulfonyloxy, substituted phenyl sulfonyloxy, phenyl, substituted phenyl, halogen, benzylthio, substituted phenyl methylthio, triphenylmethylthio, cyano or mercapto , S X2.or O X2 wherein X2 is alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, alkanoyl, phenylcarbonyl, substituted phenyl carbonyl, or heteroarylcarbonyl , orEMI130.1 wherein one of X3 and X4 is hydrogen and the other is hydrogen or alkyl, or X3 and X4 when taken together with the carbon atom to which they are attached form a cycloalkyl group and X5 is formyl, alkanoyl, phenylcarbonyl, substituted phenyl carbonyl, phenylalkylcarbonyl, substituted phenyl alkylcarbonyl, carboxyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, substituted amino carbonyl, or cyano R5 is hydrogen, alkyl, substituted alkyl, phenyl, or substituted phenyl and R6 is hydroxy, alkoxy, substituted alkyl oxy, phenyloxy, substituted phenyl oxy, alkyl, substituted alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, heteroaryl, amino, substituted amino, alkylthio, substituted alkyl thio, phenylthio, substituted phenyl thio, 1 Cehtoxycarbonyloxy ethoxy, 1,3dihydro 3 oxo l isobenzofuranyloxy,EMI130.2 EMI130.3 wherein R is hydrogen or alkyl, R is alkyl or phenyl, R is hydrogen, methyl or phenyl, andRiv is hydrogen or together with R is CH2 3or CH2 5 23. A ss lactam in accordance with claim 22 wherein R2 is hydrogen. 24. A ss lactam having the formulaEMI131.1 wherein R1 is acyl R2 is hydrogen or methoxy R3 and R4 are the same or different and each is hydrogen, alkyl, cycloalkyl, phenyl or substituted phenyl, or one of R3 and R4 is hydrogen and the other is alkoxycarbonyl, alken l yl, alkyn l yl, 2 phenylethenyl, 2 phenylethynyl, carboxyl, CH2X1 wherein is azido, amino, hydroxy, alkanoylamino, alkylsulfonyloxy, phenylsulfonyloxy, substituted phenyl sulfonyloxy, phenyl, substituted phenyl, halogen, benzylthio, substituted phenyl methylthio, triphenylmethylthio, cyano or mercapto , S X2 or X2 wherein X2 is alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, alkanoyl, phenylcarbonyl, substituted phenyl carbonyl, or heter6arylcarbonyl , orEMI131.2 wherein one of X3 and X4 is hydrogen and the other is hydrogen or alkyl, or X3 and X4 when taken together with the carbon atom to which they are attached form a cycloalkyl group and X5 is formyl, alkanoyl, phenylcarbonyl, substituted phenyl carbonyl, phenylalkylcarbonyl, substituted phenyl alkylcarbonyl, carboxyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, substituted amino carbonyl, or cyano and Ra is alkoxy, substituted alkyl oxy, phenyloxy, substituted phenyl oxy, alkyl, substituted alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, heteroaryl, alkylthio, substituted alkyllthio, phenylthio, substituted phenyl thio orEMI132.1 25. A process for preparing a compound as set forth in any of the preceding claims having aEMI133.1 substituent in the 1 position and an amino substituent or an acylamino substituent in the 3 position, or a salt thereof wherein R5 is hydrogen, alkyl, substituted alkyl, phenyl, or substituted phenyl and R6 is hydroxy, alkoxy, substituted alkyl oxy, phenyloxy, substituted phenyl oxy, alkyl, substituted alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, heteroaryl, amino, substituted amino, alkylthio, substituted alkyl thio, phenylthio, substituted phenyl thio, 1 ethoxycarbonyloxy ethoxy, 1,3dihydro 3 oxo l isobenzofuranyloxy,EMI133.2 EMI133.3 wherein R is hydrogen or alkyl, R is alkyl or phenyl, R is hydrogen, methyl or phenyl, and Riv is hydrogen or together with R is CH2 3 or CH2 5 characterized by phosphorylating a corresponding ss lactam having a hydrogen atom in the l position with aEMI133.4 group.

## Description
2 OXO 1 SUBSTITUTED SULFONYL AMINO CARBONYL AZETIDINES AND PROCESS FOR THEIR PREPARATION This invention is directed to a novel family of ss lactam antibiotics, and to the use of such compounds as antibacterial agents.It has been discovered that the ss lactam nucleus can be biologically activated by a substituent having the formulaEMI1.1 attached to the nitrogen atom in the nucleus. ss Lactams having aEMI1.2 substi tuent in the l position and an acylamino substituent in the 3 position and salts thereof exhibit activity against a range of gram negative and gram positive bacteria. Illustrative members of the novel family of ss lactam antibiotics of this invention are those encompassed by the formulaEMI1.3 and salts thereof. In addition to the above described B lactams having aEMI1.4 substituent in the l position and an acylamino substituent in the 3 position, this invention also encompasses B latams having aEMI2.1 substituent in the l position and an amino substituent in the 3 position. fllustrative compounds of this type have the formulaEMI2.2 These compounds are intermediates useful for the preparation of corresponding 3 acylari.ino compounds As used in formulas I and II, and throughout the specification, the symbols are as defined below. R1 is acyl R2 is hydrogen or methoxy R3 and R4 are the same or different and each is hydrogen, alkyl, cycloalkyl, phenyl or substituted phenyl, or one of R3 and R4 is hydrogen and the other is alkoxycarbonyl, alken l yl, alkyn l yl, 2 phenylethenyl, 2 phenylethynyl, carboxyl, CH2X1 wherein X1 is azido, amino NH2 , bydroxy, alkanoylamino, alkylsulfonyloxy, phenylsulfonyloxy, substituted phenyl sulfonyloxy, phenyl, substituted phenyl, halogen, benzylthio, substituted phenyl methylthio, triphenylmethylthio, cyano or mercapto , S X2 or X2 wherein X2 is alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, alkanoyl, phenylcarbonyl, substituted phenyl carbonyl, or heteroarylcarbonyl , orEMI3.1 EMI3.2 wherein one of X3 and X4 is hydrogen and the other is hydrogen or alkyl, or X3 andX4 when taken together with the carbon atom to which they are attached form a cycloalkyl group and X5 is formyl, alkanoyl, phenylcarbonyl, substituted phenyl carbonyl, phenylalkylcarbonyl, substituted phenyl alkylcarbonyl, carboxyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonylEMI3.3 substituted amino carbonyl, or cyano C,N R5 is hydrogen, alkyl, substituted alkyl, phenyl, or substituted phenyl and R6 is hydroxy, alkoxy, substituted alkyl oxy, phenyloxy, substituted phenyl oxy, alkyl, substituted alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, heteroaryl, amino NH2 , substituted amino, alkylthio, substituted alkyl thio, phenylthio, substituted phenyl thio, l ethoxycarbonyloxy ethoxy, 1, 3 dihydro 3 oxo 1 isobenzofuranyloxy, EMI3.4 wherein R is hydrogen or alkyl, R is alkyl or phenyl, Rn is hydrogen, methyl or phenyl, andRiV is hydrogen or together with R is CH2 3or CH2 5 . Listed below are definitions of various terms used to describe the 6 lactams of this invention. These definitions apply to the terms as they are used throughout the specification unless they are otherwise limited in specific instances either individually or as part of a larger group. The terms alkyl and alkoxy refer to both straight and branched chain groups. Those groups having 1 to 10 carbon atoms are preferred. The terms cycloalkyl and cycloalkenyl refer to cycloalkyl and cycloalkenyl groups having 3,4,5,6 or 7 carbon atoms. The term substituted alkyl refers to alkyl groups substituted with one, or more, azido amino NH2 , halogen, hydroxy, carboxy, cyano, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, alkoxy, phenyloxy, substituted phenyl oxy, heteroaryl oxy, mercapto, alkylthio, phenylthio, substituted phenyl thio, alkylsulfinyl, or alkylsulfonyl groups. The terms 1alkanoyl , walkenyl , alken l yl and alkyn l yl refer to both straight and branched chain groups. Those groups having 2 to 10 carbon atoms are preferred. The term halogen refers to fluorine, chlorine, bromine and iodine. The term protected carboxyl refers to a carboxyl group which has been esterified with a conventional acid protecting group.These groups are well known in the art see, for example, United States patent 4,144,333, issued March 13, 1979. The preferred protected carboxyl groups are benzyl, benzhydryl, t butyl, and nitrobenzyl esters. The term substituted phenyl refers to a phenyl group substituted with 1, 2 or 3 amino NH2 , halogen, hydroxyl, trifluoromethyl, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms , alkoxy Cof 1 to 4 carbon atoms , or carboxyl groups. The term heteroaryl refers to a 5 , 6 or 7 membered heterocyclic aromatic ring containing 1,2,3 or 4 preferably 1 or 2 nitrogen, oxygen and sulfur atoms, and to such rings substituted with one or more halogen, hydroxyl, nitro, amino, cyano, trifluoromethyl, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms or alkoxy of 1 to 4 carbon atoms groups. Exemplary heteroaryl groups are thienyl, furyl, pyrrolyl, pyridinyl, pyrazolyl, pyrazinyl, thiazolyl, pyrimidinyl and tetrazolyl. The term Zsubstituted amino refers to a group having the formula NY1Y2 wherein Y1 is hydrogen, alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, phenylalkyl or substituted phenyl alkyl, andY2 is alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, phenylalkyl, substituted phenyl alkyl, hydroxy, cyano, alkoxy, phenylalkoxy, or amino rNH21 or Y1 and Y2 together with the nitrogen atan to which they are attached form a 5,6, or 7rbered fully or partially saturated ring optionally containing additional nitrogen, oxygen or sulfur atars. The term acyl includes all organic radicals derived from an organic acid i.e., a carboxylic acid . by removal of the hydroxyl group. Certain acyl groups are, of course, preferred but this preference should not be viewed as a limitation of the scope of this invention. Exemplary acyl groups are those acyl groups which have been used in the past to acylate ss lactam antibiotics including 6 aminopenicillanic acid and derivatives and 7 aminocephmlospolanic acid and derivatives see, for example, Cephalosporins and Penicillins, edited by Flynn, Academic Press 1972 , GermanOffenlegungsschrift 2,716,677, publishedOctober 10, 1978, Belgian patent 867,994, published December 11, 1978, United States patent 4,152,432, issued May 1, 1979, UnitedStates patent 3,971,778, issued July 27, 1976,United States patent 4,172,199, issuedOctober 23, 1979, and British patent 1,348,894, published March 27, 1974. The portions of these references describing various acyl groups are incorporated herein by reference.The following list of acyl groups is presented to further exemplify the term acyl t should not be regarded as limiting that term. Exemplary acyl groups are a Aliphatic groups having the formulaEMI7.1 wherein R7 is alkyl cycloalkyl alkoxy alkenyl cycloalkenyl cyclohexadienyl or alkyl or alkenyl substituted with one or more halogen, cyano, nitro, amino, mercapto, alkylthio, or cyanomethylthio groups. b Carbocyclic aromatic groups having the formulaEMI7.2 EMI7.3 EMI8.1 wherein n is Q, 1, 2 or 3 R8, Rg, and R10each is independently hydrogen, halogen, hydroxyl, nitro, amino, cyano, trifluoromethyl, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, alkoxy of 1 to 4 carbon atoms or aminomethyl and Rllis amino, hydroxyl, a carboxyl salt, protected carboxyl, formyloxy, a sulfo salt, a sulfoamino salt, azido, halogen, hydrazino, alkylhydrazino, phenylhydrazino, or alkylthio thioxomethyl thio. Preferred carbocyclic aromatic acyl groups include those having the formulaEMI9.1 a carboxyl salt or sulfo salt andEMI9.2 R11 is preferably a carboxyl salt or sulfo salt . c Heteroaromatic groups having the formulaEMI10.1 wherein n is 0. 1, 2 or 3 Rllis as defined above and R12 is a substituted or unsubstituted 5 , 6 or 7 membered heterocyclic ring containing 1, 2, 3 or 4 preferably 1 or 2 nitrogen, oxygen and sulfur atoms. Exemplary heterocyclic rings are thienyl, furyl, pyrrolyl, pyridinyl, pyrazolyl, pyrazinyl, thiazolyl, morpholinyl, pyrimidinyl and tetrazolyl.Exemplary substituents are halogen, hydroxyl, nitro, amino, cyano, trifluoromethyl, alkyl of 1 to 4 alkoxy of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, orEMI10.2 Preferred heteroaromatic acyl groups include those groups of the above formulas wherein is 2 amino 4 thiazolyl, 2 amino 5 halo 4 thiazolyl, 4 arninopyrimidin 2 yl, 5 amino 1,2,4 thiadiazol 3 yl, 2 thienyl, 2 furanyl, or 6 aminopyridin 2 yl. d 4 Substituted 2,3 dioxo 1 piperazinyl carbonyijaminolarylacetyl groups having the formulaEMI11.1 wherein R13 is an aromatic group including carbocvclic aroma tics such as those of the formula EMI11.2 and heteroaromatics as included within thedefinition of R12 and R14 is alkyl, substituted alkyl wherein the alkyl group is substituted with one or more halogen, cyano1 nitro, amino or mercapto groups , arylmethyleneamino i.e., N CH R13 wherein R13 is as defined above , arylcarbonylarnino i.e.,EMI11.3 wherein R13 is as defined above or alkylcarbonylamino. Preferred jj 4 substituted 2, 3 dioxo l piperazinyl carbonyl amino arylacetyl groups include those wherein R14 is ethyl, phenylmethyleneamino or 2 furylmethyleneamino. e Substituted oxyimino arylacetyl groups having the formulaEMI11.4 wherein R13 is as defined above and R15 is hydrogen, alkyl, cycloalkyl, alkylaminocarbonyl, arylaminocarbonyl i.e.,EMI12.1 wherein R13 is as defined above or substituted alkyl wherein the alkyl group is substituted with 1 or more halogen, cyano, nitro, amino, mercapto, alkylthio, aromatic group as defined by R13 , carboxyl including salts thereof , amido, alkoxycarbonyl, phenylmethoxycarbonyl, diphenylmethoxycarbonyl, hydroxyalkoxyphosphinyl, dihydroxyphosphinyl, hydroxy phenylmethoxy phosphinyl, or dialkoxyphosphinyl substituents . Preferred substituted oxyimino arylacetyl groups include those wherein R13 is 2 amino 4thiazolyl. Also preferred are those groups wherein R15 is methyl, ethyl, carboxymethyl, l carboxy l methylethyl, 2,2, 2 trifluoroethyl or 2 carboxycyclopropyl f Acylamino arylacetyl groups having the formulaEMI12.2 wherein R13 is as defined above and R16 isEMI12.3 amino, alkylamino, cyanoalkyl amino, amido, alkylamido, cyanoalkyl EMI13.1 Preferred acylamino arylacetyl groups of the above formula include those groups whereinR16 is amino or amido. Also preferred are those groups wherein R13 is phenyl or 2 thienyl. g 3 Substituted 2 oxo l imidazoli dinyl carbonyl amino arylacetyl groups having the formulaEMI13.2 wherein R13 is as defined above and R17 is hydrogen, alkylsulfonyl, arylmethyleneamino i.e., N CH R13 is as defined above ,EMI13.3 wherein R18 is hydrogen, alkyl or halogen substituted alkyl , aromatic group as defined by R13 above , alkyl or substituted alkyl wherein the alkyl group is substituted with one or more halogen, cyan, nitro, amino or mercapto groups . Preferred 3 substitutéd 2 oxo 1 imidazoli dinylZcarbonyl3aminoAarylacetyl groups of the above formula include those wherein R13 is phenyl or 2 thienyl. Also preferred are those groups wherein P17 is hydrogen, methylsulfonyl, phenylmethyleneamino or 2 furylrnethyieneamino. The compounds of this invention form basic salts with various inorganic and organic bases which are also within the scope of this invention.Such salts include ammonium salts, alkali metal salts, alkaline earth metal salts, salts with organic bases, e.g., dicyclohexylamine, benzathine, N methyl D glucamine, hydrabamine and the like. The pharmaceutically acceptable salts are preferred, although other salts are also useful, e.q., in isolating or purifying the product. Some of the compounds of this invention may be crystallized or recrystallized from solvents containing water. In these cases water of hydration may be formed. This invention contemplates stoichiometric hydrates as well as compounds containing variable amounts of water that may be produced by processes such as lyophilization. ss Lactams having aEMI15.1 substituent in the l position and an amino or acylamino substituent in the 3 position contain at least one chiral center the carbon atom Cin the 3 position of the ss lactam nucleus to which the amino or acylamino substituent is attached.The invention is directed to those F lactams which have been described above, wherein the stereochemistry at the chiral center in the 3 position of the ss lactam nucleus is the same as the configuration at the carbon.atom in the 6 position of naturally occurring penicillins e.g., penicillin G and as the configuration at the carbon atom in the 7 position of naturally occurring cephamycins e.g., cephamycin C . With respect to the preferred ss lactams of formulas I and II, the structural formulas have been drawn to show the stereochemistry at the chiral center in the 3 position. Also included within the scope of this invention are racemic mixtures which contain the above described B lactams. 6 Lactams having aEMI16.1 substituent in the l posiiton of the ss lactzm nucleus and an acylamino substituent in the 3 position of the B lactam nucleus, and salts thereof, have activity against a range of gram negative and gram positive organisms. The compounds of this invention can be used as agents to combat bacterial infections including urinary tract infections and respiratory infections in mammalian species, such as domesticated animals e.g., dogs, cats, cows, horses, and the like and humans. For combating bacterial infections in mammals a compound of this invention can be administered to a mammal in need thereof in an amount. of about 1.4 mg kg day to about 350 mg kg day, preferably about 14 n.g kg day to about 100 mg kg day. All modes of administration which have been used in the past to deliver penicillins and cephalosporins to the site of the infection are also contemplated for use with the novel family of ss lactams of this invention. Such methods of administration include oral, intravenous, intramuscular, and as a suppository. The ss lactam antibiotics of this invention can be prepared from the corresponding azetidinone having the formulaEMI17.1 If the acyl group R1 in a compound of formulaIII contains reactive functionality such as hydroxyl, amino, or carboxyl groups it may be necessary to first protect those functional groups, then proceed with the synthetic procedures described below, and finally deprotect the resulting product. Phosphorylation of an azetidinone of formulaIII can be accomplished by first converting the azetidinone to a salt having the formulaEMI17.2 M is a cation by reaction with a strong base, and then reacting the salt with an activated phosphorous derivative having the formulaEMI17.3 Act is an activating group, e.g., a halogen atom, is alkyl, substituted alkyl, phenyl, or substituted phenyl, and Ra is alkoxy, substituted alkyl oxy, phenyloxy, substituted phenyl oxy, alkyl, substituted alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, heteroaryl, alkylthio, substituted alkyl thio, phenylthio, substituted phenyl thio, orEMI18.1 to yield compounds having the formulaEMI18.2 Alternatively, phosphorylation of an azetidinone of formula III can be accomplished by first silylating an azetidinone of formulaIII to yield a compound having the formulaEMI18.3 wherein X, Y and Z are alkyl, phenyl, or substituted phenyl preferably X, Y and Z are each methyl.Among the silylating agents which are useful in the above reaction are trimethylsilyl chloridetriethylamine and bis trimethylsilyl trifluoroacetamide. Reaction of a silylated azetidinone of formula VII with an activated phosphorous residue of formula V yields the corresponding compound of formula VI. Still another method for the phosphorylation of an azetidinone of formula III comprises first halogenating an azetidinone of formula III to yield a compound of the formulaEMI19.1 X is halogen . The Michaelis Arbusov reaction of a compound of formula VIII with a trivalent phosphorous derivative having the formulaEMI19.2 Pc is alkyl, substituted alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, alkoxy, substituted alkyl oxy, phenyloxy, or substituted phenyl oxy and Rd is alkyl yields the corresponding compound having the formulaEMI19.3 Still another method for the phosphorylation of an azetidinone of formula III comprises first converting the azetidinone to a salt of formula IV and then reacting the salt with a phosphorous derivative having the formulaEMI20.1 wherein the activating group Act is, most preferably, chlorine to yield compounds having the formulaEMI20.2 The compounds of formula XII are useful intermediates, and as such, form an integral part of this invention. Reaction of an intermediate of formula XII with ammonia or an amine having the formula XIII HNY 1Y2 displaces the activating group Act and yields the corresponding compound of formula I having the formulaEMI21.1 Reaction of an intermediate of formula XII with an alkanol or mercaptan having the formula XV Rb ZH wherein Z is oxygen or sulfur, or with water, displaces the activating group Act and yields the corresponding compound having the formulaEMI21.2 EMI22.1 Mono acidic phosphorous derivatives can also be obtained from the corresponding monoor dialkyl esters having the formulaEMI22.2 wherein Rb is methyl, ethyl or n propyl. Heating a compound of formula XVIII with thiourea in acetonitrile yields a thiuronium salt of a compound of formula XVII, which upon treatment with a cationic ion exchange resin yields a different salt of a compound of formula XVII.Alternatively, treatment of a compound of formulaXVIII with a tetralkylammonium halide .yields a tetraalkylammonium salt of a compound of formula XVII, which upon treatment with a cationic ion exchange resin yields a different salt of a compound of formula XVII. Alternatively, mono acidic phosphorous derivatives can be obtained from the corresponding mono or dialkyl esters of formula XVIII by treatment with an acid scavenger and drying agent such as bis trimethylsilylacetamide followed by treatment with trimethylsilyl bromide to yield an intermediate silyl ester having the formulaEMI23.1 An intermediate of formula XIX is readily converted to a salt of the corresponding compound of formula XVII by treatment with an organic or inorganic base in the presence of water or an alcohol. The tetralkylammonium salt of a compound of formula XVII can be treated with an alkyl halide, substituted alkyl halide, l ethoxycarbonyloxy ethyl halide, 1,3 dihydro 3 oxo l EMI23.2 an ester having the formulaEMI24.1 wherein Re is alkyl, substituted alkyl, l ethoxycarbonyloxy ethyl, 1,3 dihydro 3 oxo l isobenzofuranyl, EMI24.2 orEMI24.3 When Ra is methoxy or ethoxy, this process results in transesterification, yielding the tetraalkylammonium salt of a compound having the formulaEMI24.4 A compound of formula XXI can be converted to the corresponding compound of formula XX wherein Ra is methoxy or ethoxy by treating the tetralkylammonium salt of the compound of formula XXI with methyl or ethyl sulfate.Alternatively, the tetralkylammonium salt of the compound of formula XXI can be converted to the corresponding acid on ion exchange resin and then treated with diazomethane or diazoethane to yield the desired compound of formula XX wherein Ra is methoxy or ethoxy. A process for obtaining diacidic phosphorous derivatives comprises utilization of a dialkyl ester having the formulaEMI25.1 corresponds to compound of formula X wherein Rc is alkoxy . Treatment of a dialkyl ester of formula XXII with an acid scavenger and drying agent such as bis trimethylsilylacetamide followed by treatment with at least two equivalents of trimethylsilyl bromide yields an intermediate having the formulaEMI25.2 An intermediate of formula XXIII is readily converted to a salt of the corresponding compound having the formulaEMI25.3 by treatment with an oxganic or inorganic base in the presence of water or an alcohol. Products of formula I wherein R1 is a readily cleavable acyl group, can be used to prepare other compounds of formula 1. If, for example, a compound of formula I wherein R1 is benzyloxycarbonyl is catalytically hydrogenated, or a compound of formula I wherein R1 is t butoxycarbonyl is treated with. acid, an intermediate having the formulaEMI26.1 is obtained. Well known acylation techniques can be used to convert an intermediate of formula II to a corresponding product of formula I.Exemplary techniques include reaction of a compound of formula II with a carboxylic acid R1 OH , or corresponding carboxylic acid halide, or carboxylic acid anhydride or mixed anhydride. The reaction with a carboxylic acid proceeds most readily in the presence of a carbodiimide such as dicyclohexylcarbodiimide and a substance capable of forming an active ester in situ such as N hydroxybenzotriazole. In those instances wherein the acyl group R1 or R3, R4 or R6 groups contain reactive functionality such as amino or carboxyl groups it may be necessary to first protect those functional groups, then carry out the acylation reaction, and finally deprotect the resulting product. The starting azetidinones of formula III are obtainable using any one of numerous procedures. A compound of formula III can be obtained by first reacting an oleo in having the formulaEMI27.1 with a halosulfonylisocyanate preferably chlorosulfonylisocyanate having the formula XXVI O C N S02 halogen, to yield an azetidinone having the formulaEMI27.2 Reductive hydrolysis of an azetidinone of formula XXVII yields an N unsubstituted ss lactam having the formulaEMI28.1 For a more detailed description of the above described reaction sequence reference can be made to the literature see, for example,Chem. Soc. Rev., 5, 181 1976 and J, Org. Chem., 35, 2043 1970 . An azido group can be introduced in the 3 position of an azetidinone of formula XXVIII by reaction of the compound with an arylsulfonyl azide such as toluenesulfonyl azide to obtain an azetidinone having the formulaEMI28.2 The reaction proceeds best by first protecting the azetidinone nitrogen with a silyl residue e.g., t butyldimethylsilyl, or t butyldiphenylsilyl , then generating the anion at the 3 position of the nucleus with a strong organic base e.g., lithium diisopropylamine at a low temperature, and then treating the anion with toluenesulfonyl azide.The resulting intermediate is quenched with trimethylsilyl chloride, and subsequent acid hydrolysis or fluoride solvolysis of theN protecting group yields the compound of formula XXIX. Reduction of a 3 azido 2 azetidinone of formula XXrK yields the corresponding compound having the formulaEMI29.1 The reduction can be accomplished by catalytic e.g., palladium on charcoal or platinum oxide hydrogenation or with reducing agents such as zinc or triphenylphosphine. Acylation of a 3 amino 2 azetidinone using art recognized procedures described above yields the corresponding starting material of formulaIII wherein R2 is hydrogen i.e., a compound having the formulaEMI29.2 The starting azetidines of formula III wherein R2 is methoxy can be obtained frame the corresponding non methoxylated compound of formula XXXI,wherein R1NH is a carbamate e.g., R1 is benzyloxycarbonyl . Halogenation preferably chlorination2 of the amide nitrogen of such a compound yields a compound having the formulaEMI30.1 Reagents and procedures for N chlorinating asides are known in the art. Exemplary reagents are t butyl hypochlorite, sodium hypochlorite, and chlorine. The reaction can be run in an organic solvent e.q., a lower alkanol such as methanol or a two phase solvent system e.q., water methylene chloride in the presence of a base such as sodium borate decahydrate.The reaction is preferably run at a reduced temperature. Reaction of a compound of formula XXXII with a methoxylating agent such as an alkali metal methoxide, followed by reaction with a reducing agent such as trimethylphosphite, yields a compound having the formula EMI31.1 in combination witb its enantiomer if R3 and R4 are the same. If R3 and R4 are not the same, two optimally active diastereomers. are formed. Catalytic hydrogenation of a compound of formula XXXIII, followed by acylation using art recognized procedures yields the corresponding starting material of formula III wherein R2 is methoxy i.e., a compound having the formulaEMI31.2 An alternative synthesis for the preparation of a starting material of formula III whereinR3 and R4 are each hydrogen utilizes a 6 acyl aminopenicillanic acid having the formulaEMI31.3 or a salt thereof, as the starting material. By adapting procedures described in the literature, 3 acylamino 2 azetidinone can be obtained from the corresponding 6 acylaminopenicillanic acid of formula XII see, for example, Chew. Soc. SpecialPublication No. 28, pg. 288 1977 , The Chemistry of Penicillins, Princeton University Press, pg. 257, and Synthesis, 494 1977 . As described in the literature 6 acylaminopenicillanic acid, or a salt thereof, can be desulfurized to yield a compound having the formulaEMI32.1 by reduction using Raney nickel. The reaction can be run in water under reflux conditions. Replacement of the carboxyl group of a compound of formula XXXVI with an acetate group followed by hydrolysis yields the corresponding 3 acylamino 2 azetidinone having the formulaEMI32.2 Treatment of a compound of formula XXXVI with cupric acetate and lead tetraacetate in an organic solvent e.g., acetonitrile replaces the carboxyl group with an acetate group.Hydrolysis of the resulting compound can he accomplished using potassium carbonate in the presence of sodium borohydride. A variation of the above described synthetic route for the preparation of a starting compound of formula III whereinR3 and R4 are each hydrogen comprises first desulfurizing 6 aminopenicillanic acid, acylating the resulting compound to yield a compound of formula XXXV and the proceeding as described above to obtain a 3 acylamino 2azetidinone of formula XXXVIL. Alternatively, the above described procedures can be carried out utilizing a 7 acylaminocephalosporanic acid in place of the 6 acylaminopenicillanic acid of formula XXXV. The azetidinones of formula III wherein R2 is hydrogen and at least one of R3 and R4 is hydrogen can also be prepared from amino acids having the formulaEMI33.1 at least one of R3 and R4 is hydrogen . The amino group is first protected with a protecting group A , e.g., t butoxycarbonyl . The carboxyl group of the protected amino acid is then reacted with an amine having the formula IXL Y O NH2, wherein Y is alkyl or benzyl, in the presence of a carbodiimide to yield a compound having the formulaEMI34.1 at least one of R3 and R4 is hydrogen . The hydroxyl group of a compound of formula XL is converted to a leaving group with a classical reagent, e.g., methanesulfonyl chloride methanesulfonyl is referred to hereinafter as Ms . The fully protected compound having the formulaEMI34.2 at least one of R3 and R4 is hydrogen2 is cyclized by treatment with base, e.g., potassium carbonate. The reaction is preferably carried out in an organic solvent such as acetone, under reflux conditions, and yields a compound having the formula EMI35.1 at least one of R3 and R4 is hydrogen . Alternatively, cyclization of a compound of formula .XL can be accomplished without first converting the hydroxyl group to a leaving group.Treatment of a compound of formula XL with triphenyiphosphine and diethylazodicarboxylate, yields a compound of formula XLII wherein at least one of R3 and R4 is hydrogen. Both of the methods disclosed above for ring closure of a compound of formula XL result in the inversion of the stereochemistry at the carbon atom bearing the R3 and R4 substituents. Removal of the protecting group from the l position of an azetidinone of formula XLII can be accomplished via sodium reduction whenY is alkyl, and yields an intermediate having the formulaEMI35.2 at least one of R3 and R4 is hydrogen . If Y is benzyl, catalytic e.., palladium on charcoal hydrogenation will initially yield the corresponding N hydroxy compound, which.upon treatment with titanium trichloride yields an intermediate of formula XLIIIwherein at least one of and R4 is hydrogen. Deprotection of a compound of formulaXLIII,followed by acylation using art recognized procedures yields the corresponding starting material of formula III. A 3 acylamino 2 azetidinone of formula III wherein R2 and R4 each is hydrogen can be prepared by first reacting a primary amine having the formulaEMI36.1 with an aldehyde having the formula XL EMI36.2 or a hemiacetal to yield the correspondingSchiff base. A 12 2 cycloaddition reaction of the Schiff base with an activated form of a azidoacetic acid yields a 3 azido 2 azetidinone having the formulaEMI37.1 wherein 0 isEMI37.2 Ox id ative removal of the l substituent yields the corresponding compound having the formulaEMI37.3 which can be reduced and acylated as described above to yield the desired starting material. A compound of formula III wherein R4 is hydrogen can be obtained using a procedure analogous to that described above for the preparation of a 3 azido 2 azetidinone of formula XLVI. In place of an activated form of o azidoacetic acid, an activated form of a phthalimidoacetic acid is used, yielding a compound having the formula EMI38.1 Reaction of a compound of formula XLVIII with a reagent such as methyl hydrazine to cleave the phthaloyl group , followed by the introduction of a protecting group on the 3 nitrogen substituent, and oxidative removal of the l protecting group will yield a compound of formula XLIII whereinR4 is hydrogen. Deprotection of a compound of formula XLIIX,followed by acylation yields the corresponding starting material of formula III. The following examples are specific embodiments of this invention. Example 1 S 1 Dimethoxyphosphinyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl esterMethod I S 3 Benzyloxycarbonylamino 2 acetidinone 100 mg was dissolved in dry tetrahydrofuran 2 ml , rapidly cooled to 780C, and sec butyl lithium 324 l of 1.4N in cyclohexane was added. After stirring for several minutes, dimethylphosphorochloridate 80 yl, 0.555 mmol was added and the mixture was stirred at 78 0C for 1 2 hour. The reaction mixture was diluted with dichloromethane, washed with water, dried sodium sulfate , filtered through Celite and solvent was removed in vacuo.The residual oil was chromatographed on two silica gel plates developed in ethyl acetate, yielding the product as an oil 95 mg which crystallized from ethyl acetate, yielding 35 mg 6f product, melting point 71.5 73 C.Anal. Calc d for C13Hl7N206P C, 47.56 H, 5.22 N, 8.54 P, 9.44 Found C, 47.84 H, 5.41 N, 8.65 P, 9.44 A second cropwas obtained from ether 30 mg, melting point 70 720C . Method II A suspension of S 3 benzyloxycarbonylamino 2 azetidinone 100 mg, 0..454 mmol in carbon tetrachloride 2 mi was refluxed with bis trimethylsilyltrifluoroacetamide 241 l 0.908 mmol for 5 hours causing dissolution of the solid. Dimethylphosphorochloridate 200 p1 was added and, after refluxing overnight, the mixturewas stirred at room temperature for 3 days. Removal of solvent in vacuo gave a crude oil, which after chromatography on preparative thin layer silica gel plates yielded the desired product 61 mg .Method III To a solution of S 3 benzyloxycarbonylamino 2 azetidinone 112 mg in dry tetrahydrofuran 2 ml cooled to 780C was added a solution of potassium t butoxide 61 mg in dry tetrahydrofuran 3 ml . The mixture was stirred under an inert atmosphere for 5 minutes, dimethylphosphorochloridate 80 ul was added and stirring was continued for 35 minutes at 78 0C. After diluting the reaction with dichloromethane, washing with diluted sodium chloride solution, and drying sodium sulfate , the desired product was obtained 49 mg by removal of solvent in vacuo and chromatography of the crude oil on preparative thin layer silica gel plates. Method IV A solution of S 3 benzyloxycarbonylamino2 azetidinone 440 mg in dichloromethane 15 ml was combined with a solution of borax 1.53 g in water 10 ml and cooled in an ice bath to 0 50C. While stirring via,orously,a 5.07 solution of sodium hypochlorite 3.2 ml was added after 1 hour another portion 1.6 ml of hypochlorite solution was added and stirring was continued for 1 hour at 0 50C. The organic layerwas.separated and the aqueous solution was extracted with dichloromethane. The combined extracts wer.e dried sodium sulfate and solvent was removed in vacuo giving S 3 benzyloxycarbonylamino l ohloroazetidin 2 one as an oil. A stirring mixture of the oil and dried 0 4A molecular sieves in dry tetrahydrofuran 10 ml was cooled to 0 50C and trimethylphosphite 0.2 ml was added after 15 minutes. After 30 minutes another portion 0.2 ml of trimethylphosphite was added and stirring was continued at 0 5 C for 45 minutes. The reaction was diluted with ethyl acetate, washed with water followed by saturated sodium bicarbonate solution, dried sodium sulfate and solventwasremoved in vacuo giving an oil. Flash chromatography on silica gel 50 g yielded the desired product 255 mg as an oil upon elution with ethyl acetate. Crystallization from ethyl acetate ether gave the desired product as a powder 154 mg . Example 2 S 2 Oxo 3 phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, dipotassium salt S 1 Dimethoxyphosphinyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester 63 mg see example 1 was dissolved in dry dichloromethane 1 ml and trimethylsilyl bromide 56 p1 was added.After stirring the mixture for 2 1 2 hours at room temperature, ether was added followed by water 10 p1 causing a product to separate from solution as an oil. Solvent was removed in vcuo and the residue was dissolved in water by addition of 1.84 N potassium hydroxide solution 104 l . Waterwas removed in vacuo and the residue was solidified with acetone ether, triturated twice with ether and collected . 64 mg . The product was chromatographed onHP20AG HP20AG is macroporous styrene divinylbenzene copolymer, Mitsubishi Chemical Industries using a water acetonitrile gradient elution.The dipotassium salt was eluted to aive an oil 16 mg after removal of the eluant in vacuo. The oil solidified with acetonitrileether, was triturated twice with ether, and collected yielding a powder.Anal. Calc d for C11H11N2O6PK2H2O t, 33.50 H, 3.58 N, 7.10 P, 7.85 Found C, 33.73, 33.87 H, 3.41, 3.33 N, 7.23, 7.18 P, 8.03 Example 3 S 2 Oxo 3 phenylacetyl amino 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, dimethyl ester 3 Phenylacetyl amino 2 azetidinone 250 mg was dissolved in a mixture of dry dimethylformamide 2 ml and anhydrous tetrahydrofuran 5 ml . The mixture was cooled to 78 C, sec butyllithium 0.83 ml of 1.4 N in cyclohexane was added, stirring was continued for 8 mintues, dimethylphosphorochloridate 187 l was added, and the mixture was stirred for 45 minutes at 78 C. After dilution with saturated aqueous sodium chloride and two extractions with ethyl acetate, the combined extracts were dried sodium sulfate , filtered, and solvent was removed in vacuo yielding an oil. Thin layer chrantography on plates developed in ethyl acetate gave the product as an oil which crystallized from ether.The solid was recrystallized from ethyl acetateether pentane, triturated with ether, and dried in vacuo yielding 283 mg of the title compound as a powder, melting point 77.50 81.50C. Anal. Calc d for C13H17N2O5P 312.27 C, 50.00 H, 5.49 N, 8.97 P, 9.92 Found C, 50.12 H, 5.15 N, 9.02 P, 9.8 Example 4 S Oxo 3 phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 1 azetidinyll.phosphonic acid, methyl ester, potassium salt S l Dimethoxyphosphinyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinylOcarbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester 100 mg see example 1 was dissolved in 2 ml of acetonitrile, thiourea 23 mg was added, and the mixture was refluxed under a nitrogen atmosphere for 2Q hours.Solvent was then removed in vacuo and the residue was worked into a hygroscopic powder by triturating several times with anhydrous ether yielding S 12 oxo 3 phenylacetyl amino 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester, thiuronium salt. Dissolution of the salt in water and passage of the solution through a cation exchange resin AGMP 50, K form , followed by removal of water in vacuo from the eluate gave the title potassium salt as an oil, which solidified upon addition of acetone ether. After triturating twice with anhydrous ether, the product 66 mg , was obtained as a deliquescent powder, melting point 63 670C. Anal. Calc d for C12H14N2O6PK 352.33 C, 40.90 H, 4.00 N, 7.95 P, 8.79 Found C, 40.69 H, 4.12 N, 8.00 P, 8.6 Example 5 S 2 Oxo 3 phenylacetyl amino 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester, potassium salt Following the procedure of example 4, but substituting S 2 oxo 3 phenylacetyl aminoj l azetidinyl phosphonic acid, dimethyl ester see example 3 for S Il dimethoxyphosphinyl 2 oxo 3 axetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, yielded the title compound as a solid, melting point 242 244 C.Anal. Calc d for C12H14N2O5Pk.1 2 H2O C, 41.73 H, 4.38 N, 8.11 P, 8.97 Found C, 41.62 H, 4.20 N, 8.18 P, 8.49 Example 6 3S Z 3 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl methoxyimino acetyl amino 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester, potassium salt To pre hydrogenated 10 palladium on charcoal 247.3 mg in 4 ml of 3 7 dimethylformamide acetonitrile was added a solution of S 2 oxo 3 phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester, potassium salt 494.5 mg see example 4 in 10 ml of dimethylformamide acetonitrile 3 7 . The mixturewas hydrogenated for 2 hours. The catalyst was removed by filtration throughCelite. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo without heating to remove acetonitrile and then diluted with 1Q ml of dry dichloro methane. This solution was added to a cold 0 C solution of Z 2 amino a methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetic acid 282.14 mg , N hydroxybenzotriazole monohydrate 189.1 mg and N,Ndicyclohexylcarbodiimide, 99 289.6 mg, I eq. in 3 ml of dimethylformamide dry under nitrogen.The mixture was stirred at 0 C for one hour.The dicyclohexylurea was filtered. The filtrate had solvent removed in vacuo at 400C. The residue was triturated with ethyl acetate to give 570 mg of the crude product which was purified by column chromatography on 100 ml of HP2OAG, eluting with water 103 mg of product was obtained. Example 7 3S Z 3 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl methoxyimino acetyl amino 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester 3S Z 13 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl methoxy imino acetyl amino 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester, potassium salt 103 mg see example 6 was dissolved in 10 ml of distilled water and acidified to pH 2.4 with 0.3 N hydrochloric acid. The mixture was concentrated in vacuo to give a crude crop, which was dissolved in acetone and precipitated from water. The solid product was collected by filtration and dried overnight over phosphorous pentoxide in vacuo yielding 41 mg of product, melting point 117 1230C.Anal. Calc d for C10H14N5PS P C, 33.06 H, 3.88 N, 19.28 S, 8.83 Found C, 16.62 H, 2.16 N, 9 05 S, 4.48 ash, 42.9 flame tests positive for potassium and chlorine . Example 8 3S Z 3 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl methoxyimino acetyl amino 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, dimethyl ester S 1 Dimethoxyphosphinyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester 500 mg see example 1 dissolved in 30 ml of absolute ethanol was added to pre hydrogenated 10 palladium on charcoal 250 mg in 30 ml of absolute ethanol. The mixture was hydrogenated for 35 minutes. The catalystwas removed by filtration through Celite. The filtrate was evaporated to dryness in vacuo without heating.The residue was dissolved in 7.5 ml of dry dichloromethane and added to a cold 0 C solution of Z 2 amino a methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetic acid 306.5 mg and N hydroxybenzotriazole 205.8 mg in 7.5 ml of dry .dimethylformamide. To this mixture was added N,N dicyclohexylcarbodiimide, 99 295.5 mg at 0 C under nitrogen. The mixture was stirred at 0 5 C overnight under nitrogen. The dicyclohexylureawas filtered.The filtrate was stripped to dryness in vacuo.The residue was taken up in 45 ml of ethyl acetate and stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. The precipitate was collected by filtration. After drying, 259 mg of the crude product was obtained. The filtrate was washed with three 15 ml portions of 0 3 N hydrochloric acid, adjusted to pH 6.0 with sodium bicarbonate solution, and extracted with three 20 ml portions of ethyl acetate. The combined ethyl acetate extracts were dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and evaporated to give 70 mg of additional product.After crystallization from methanolethyl acetate, 108 mg of analytically pure product was obtained, melting point 191 193OC Analysis Calc d for C11H16N5065P C, 35.01 H, 4.27 N, 18.56 S, 8.50 P, 8.4 Found C, 34.94 H, 4.31 N, 18.30 S, 8.24 P, 8.0 Example 9 S 1 Methoxymethylphosphinyl 2 oxo 3azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester To a cold solution 780C of 3 benzyloxycarbonylamino 2 azetidinone 5.0 g in 100 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran freshly distilled over sodium was added a solution of 1.4 M sec butyllithium in cyclohexane 19.4 ml . After a few minutes the mixture was treated with methyl methylphosphorochloridate 2.7The mixture was stirred at 780C under nitrogen for 20 minutes. The resulting solution was poured into a mixture of 500 ml ethyl acetate and 250 ml of saturated sodium chloride. The organic layer was separated. The aqueous layer was extracted with two 250 ml portions of ethyl acetate. The combined ethyl acetate extracts were dried over sodium sulfate and filtered to remove the drying agent. The filtrate was evaporated to dryness to give 7.75 g of product. After flash chromatography on a silica gel column 750 g 50 ml fractions eluted progressively with 600 ml amounts of ethyl acetate containing 10 , 20 and 30 of methanol , the desired product 3.55 g was obtained in fractions 24 39. Example 10 S 1 Hydroxymethylphosphinyl 2 oxo 3azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt A mixture of S l methoxymethylphosphinyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester 3.0 g see example 9 and thiourea 3.68 g in 48 ml of dry acetonitrilewas heated under reflux for 18 hours. The resulting mixture was evaporated to dryness to give 6.68 g of crude product. After purification on a 200 ml column of ion exchange resin K form eluting with 30 acetone in water , 2.62 g of the desired product was obtained from fractions 3 and 4 50 ml each fraction . . Recrystallization of 200 mg of product from methanol acetonitrile yielded 135 mg of analytically pure material, melting point 164 1660C.Analysis for C12H14N2O5Pk.H2O Calcd C, 40.67 H, 4.55 N, 7.90 P, 8.74Found C, 40.76 H, 4.47 N, 8.00 P, 8.40 Example 11 S 3 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl methoxyimino acetyljamino3 2 oxo l azetidinyl methyiphosphinic acid, methyl ester S 1 Methoxymethylphosphinyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, 339.1 mg see example 9 was dissolved in 17 ml of 1 1 acetonitrile absolute ethanol and added to pre hydrogenated 10 palladium on charcoal catalyst, 169.6 mg in 8.5 ml of absolute ethanol. The mixture washydrogenated for 1 hour. The resulting mixturewas filtered through Celite and the filtrate was concentrated to dryness.The residue was dissolved in 8.5 ml of dichloromethane, cooled in an ice bath and added to a cold 0 C mixture of Z 2 amino alpha methoxy imino 4 thiazoleacetic acid 210.6 mg andN hydroxybenzotriazole 141.5 mg in 8.5 ml of dry dimethylformamide. To this mixture was added N,N dicyclohexylcarbodiimide 216.4 mg and the solution was stirred at 0 50C overnight.Precipitated dicyclohexylurea was filtered off and the filtrate was evaporated to dryness in vacuo. The residuewas taken up in 50 ml of ethanol, stirred at room temperature for 1 2 hour, and filtered to give 254.8 mg of crude product, which triturated with acetonitrile yielding 58.2 mg of product, melting point 200 2020C, dec.Analysis Calc d for C11H16N5O5SP Calc d C, 36.55 H, 4.46 N, 19.38 S, 8.87 P, 8.57 Found C, 38.58 H, 4.97 N, 18.65 S, 11.43 P, 6.7 Example 12 S Methyl 2 oxo 3 I phenyiacetyl amino 1 azetidinyl phosphinic acid, potassium salt S 1 Hydroxymethylphosphinyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 50Q mg see example 102was dissolved in 10 ml of water and added to prehydrogenated 10 palladium on charcoal catalyst 250 mg in 10 ml of water the mixture was hydrogenated for 1 hour. The resulting mixture was filtered through Celite.The filtrate was diluted with 20 ml of acetone, cooled to 0 C and potassium bicarbonate 150 mg was added pH of solution is 7.9 followed by phenylacetyl chloride 250 pl in 1 ml of acetone. The mixturewasmaintained at pH 6.7 with 10 potassium bicarbonate for 2 hours and then filtered. The filtrate was concentrated to give 934.3 mg of crude product, which was purified by medium pressure chromatography on 200 ml of HP2OAG resin. The product was eluted with 5 acetonitrile in water yielding 49.3 mg of a deliquescent powder. After trituration with ether acetonitrile and lyophilization 42 mg of product as a powderwas obtained, melting point 187 1900C.Analysis Calc d for C12H14N2O4PK Calc d C, 44.99 H, 4.40 N, 8.75 P, 9.67 Found C, 44.18 , 4.85 N, 6.42 P, 7.6 Example 13 S 1 Ethoxyphenylphosphinyl 2 oxo 3azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester To a solution of 3 benzyloxycarbonylamino 2azetidinone 5.0 g in dry tetrahydrofuran 125 ml , cooled to 780C, was added sec butyl lithium 18.5 ml and the mixture was stirred for 5 minutes. Ethyl chlorophenylphosphonate 4.71 g was added and the mixturewas stirred for 1 hour at 78 0C followed by the addition of 125 ml of saturated sodium chloride solution.The mixture was then extracted twice with 125 ml portions of ethyl acetate and the extracts were combined, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent removed in vacuo yielding the crude product as a foam. The crude product was purified by chromatography on silica gel 750 g , eluting with dichloromethanerethyl acetate 1 1 followed by ethyl acetate. The ethyl acetate fractions were stripped and the residue triturated with ether to yield 4.94 g of product.Anal. Calc d for C19H21N2O5P 388.36 C, 58,76 H, 5.45 N, 7.21 P, 7.98 round C, 58,74 H, 5.42 N, 7.31 P, 7.73 Example 14 S Il Hydroxyphenylphosphinyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinylj carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt A mixture of 1.22 g of S ll ethoxyphenyl phosphinyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester see example 13 and 1.28 g of bis trimethylsilylacetamide in dry dichloromethane 15 ml was allowed to stir under nitrogen for 15 minutes to remove any water.that may be present. .Trimethylsilyl bromide 0.721 g was added and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 20 hours. The mixture was poured into 40 ml of 0.5 M pH 5.5 monobasic potassium phosphate buffer the pH was adjusted to 6.5 with 1.85 N potassium hydroxide. The aqueous layer was separated and the organic layer was extracted with water. The aqueous extractswere combined and the water was removed in vacuo.. The residue was purified by column chromatography on 150 ml of HP20AG, elutinq, with water 1400 ml followed by 20 acetonitrile water. Removal of the solvent in vacuo yielded a solid which was triturated with acetone and then ether to obtain the product as a crystalline solid 674 mg melting point 174 177 C, dec. . Anal. Calc d for C17H16N2O5Pk 398.40 C, 51.25 H, 4.05 N, 7,03 P, 7.78 Found C, 50.81 H, 4.07 N, 6.97 P, 7.70 Example 15 35 Z J j3 J 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl methoxyimino acetyl amino 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl methylphosphinic acid, potassium salt To a suspension of pre hydrogenated 10 palladium on charcoal 280 mg in methanol 11 ml wes added a solution of S l hydroxymethylphosphinyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 560 mg, see example 10 in methanol 11 ml . The mixture was stirred for 1 2 hour under an atmosphere of hydrogen, filtered throughCelite,and the filter bedwas washed with methanol. The filtrate and washings were concentrated in vacuo. The hydrogenation was repeated twice more with fresh catalyst yielding S 3 amino 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl methylphosphinic acid, potassium salt containing about 10 of the starting azetidinone. To a solution of S 3 amino 2 oxo l azetidinyl methylphosphinic acid, potassium salt in dimethylformamide 22 mi at 0 5 0C was added Z 2 amino o methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetic acid 286 mg , N hydroxybenzotriazole hydrate 192 mg , and dicyclohexylcarbbdiimide 292 mg . The mixture was stirred overnight at 5 C, filtered, and solvent was removed in vacuo. Trituration of the residue with ethyl acetate gave a solid 431 mg , which was chromatographed on HP2OAG resin 150 ml .The product was eluted with water, then solidified and triturated with acetone to give 136 mg of the title compound.Anal. Calc d for C10H13N5O5SPK.1 2 H20 C, 30.37 H, 3.57 N 17.71 S, 8.11 P, 7.84 Found C, 30.59 H, 3.93 N, 17.55 S, 8.21 P, 7.6 Example 16 135 Z t3 2 kmino 4 thiazotyl methoxyimino acetyl amino 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester, potassium salt A solution of 1 g of S I2 oxo 3 Ij phenyl methoxy carbonyl amino 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester, potassium salt see example 4 in ethanol 30 ml was added to a pre hydrogenated suspension of 10 palladium on charcoal 0.5 g in ethanol .10 ml . The mixture was stirred for 2 1 2 hours under a stream of hydrogen.After filtration through Celite on a Millipore filter, ethanol was removed in vacuo giving a foam. A solution of this foam in dimethylformamide 15 ml added to a mixture of Z 2 amino a methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetic acid 598 mg , N hydroxybenzotriazole hydrate 401 mg and dicyclohexylcarbodiimide 613 mg in dry dimethylformamide 5 ml , which had been stirred for 10 minutes at room temperature. The entire reaction mixture was stirred for 17 hours at room temperature, filtered, and solvent was removed from the filtrate in vacuo giving an oil. Solidification and trituration of the oil with ethyl acetate yielded a solid, which was dissolved in water.The solution was filtered to remove suspended dicyclohexylurea, the pH of the filtrate ws raised to 6.6 with dilute potassium bicarbonate, and the concentrated solution was chromatographed on HP20 resin 200 ml . The product was eluted with water, crystallized twice from a mixture of methanol acetone 1 2 , washed with acetone, and dried to give 151 mg of product as a solid.Anal. Calc d for C10H13N5O6SPK.1 2 H2O C, 29.41 H, 3.45 N, 17.11 S, 7.83 P, 7.57Found C, 29.51, 29.39 H, 3.79, 3.49 N, 16.75, 16.75 S, 7.83 P, 7.40 Example 17 S 2 Oxo 3 phenylacetyl amino 1 azetidinyl phenylphosphinic acid, potassium salt To a pre hydrogenated 10 palladium on charcoal 300 mg in 30 ml of methanol catalyst was added a solution of S Il hydroxyphenyl phosphinyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester 876 my see example 14 in 20 ml of methanol. The mixture was hydrogenated.for 2 hours. The catalystwas removed by filtration through Celite. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo, without heating, yielding 580 mg of S 2 oxo 3 amino 1 azetidinyl phenylphosphinic acid, potassium salt. To a mixture of the 3 aminoazetidinylphenylphosphinic acid 580 mg and potassium bicarbonate 374 mg in acetone 18 ml and water 12 ml was added phenylacetyl chloride 374 mg . The mixture was allowed to stir for 24 hours at 50C. The solvent was removed in vacuo yielding a solid. The crude residue was chromatographed on 175 ml HP20AG resin, eluting with water 400 ml followed by eluting with a solvent gradient of 500 ml each of 60 acetonitrile water and water.Removal of solvent in vacuo yielded a solid which was triturated with acetone and ether to yield 250 mg of product, melting point 176 178 C,dec. Anal. Calc d for C17H16N204PK 382.40 C, 53.39 H, 4.22 N, 7.33 P, 8.10Found C, 53.08 H, 4.22 N, 7.30 P, 8.1 Example 18 3S Z 13 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl methoxyimino acetyl amino 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl phenylphosphinic acid, potassium salt S 2 Oxo 3 amino 1 azetidinyl phenylphosphinic acid, potassium salt 330 mg see example 17 was added to a cold 0 C solution of Z 2 amino alpha methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetic acid 254 mg , N hydroxybenzotriazole hydrate 193 mg and N,N dicyclohexylcarbodiimide, 99 260 mg in 4 ml of dry dimethylformamide under nitrogen. The mixture was stirred at 5 C for 18 hours.The dicyclohexylurea was filtered and dimethylformamidewas removed in vacuo at 40OC The pH of the aqueous solution of the residue was adjusted to pH 6.5 and the crude product was purified by column chromatography on 150 ml of HP 20 AG, eluting with water 850 ml followed by 10 acetonitrile in water 650 ml . Removal of solvent under.reduced pressure yields a solid, which was triturated with acetone and then ether to yield 410 mg of the title compound, melting point 183 1850C, dec.Anal. Calc d for C15Hl5NsO5PS K 447.46 C, 40.26, H, 3.38 H, 15.65 S, 7.17 P, 6.92Found C, 40.18 H, 3.56 N, 15.34 S, 7.20 P, 6.90 Example 19 3S Z 2 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 1 hydroxymethoxyphosphinyl 2 oxo 3 acetidinyl amino 2 oxoethyldene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid benzhydryl ester 3 Benzyloxycarbonylamino 2 oxo l azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester, potassium salt 250 mg see example 4 in ethanol 7 ml was added to a pre hydrogenated suspension of 10 palladium on charcoal 125 mg in ethanol 3 ml . The mixture was vigorously stirred under a hydrogen atmosphere for 0.5 hour, the atmosphere was exchanged for fresh hydrogen, and stirring was continued for an additional 0.5 hour. The catalystwas then replaced and the mixture was stirred for another 15 minutes under hydrogen, filtered through Celite on a Millipore filter and solvent was removed in vacuo giving S 3 amino 2 cxo l azetidinylphosonic acid, methyl ester, potassium salt. An active ester was formed by stirring Z 2 amino alpha 2 diphenylmethoxy 1,1 dimethyl 2 oxoethoxy imino 4 thiazoleacetic acid, 327 mg N hydroxybenzotriazole hydrate 108 mg and dicyclohexylcarbodiimide 146 mg in dimethylformamide 3 ml for 1 1 2 hours at room temperature. S 3 Amino 2 oxo l azetidinyl phosplonic acid methyl ester, potassium salt in dimethyl formamide 3 ml was added and the mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. Solvent was removed in vacuo, the residue was taken up in water, the pH was adjusted to 6.5 with dilute potassium hydroxide, and the mixture was filtered to remove dicyclohexylurea.The pH of the filtrate was lowered to 2.5 with dilute hydrochloric acid causing a precipitate to form. The wet solid was collected by filtration, the filter cake was triturated with dry ether causing a gum to form, which was re solidified with acetone yielding the product as a tan powder 205 mg . The above aqueous filtrate was lyophilized and triturated with acetone yielding more product as a colorless solid 57 mg . A sample of this material was crystallized from methanol acetone, melting point 159.5 168 C, dec.Anal. Calc d for C26H28N5O8PSl 2 H2O 610.58 C, 51.14 H, 4.79 N, 11.47 P, 5.07 S, 5.25 Found C, 50.79 H, 4.74 N, 11.21 P, 5.1 S, 5.05 Example 20 3S Z 2 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 1 hydroxymethoxyphosphinyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid, dipotassium salt 3S Z 2 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 4 1 hydroxymethoxyphospinyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid benzhydryl ester, t2OG mg2 tsee example 19 was suspended in anisole 1.5 ml , cooled in an ice methanol bath at 24 C, and trifluoroacetic acid 3 ml was added.The mixture was stirred at 24 to 120C for 1.25 hours, diluted with dry toluene 10 ml and solvent was removed in vacuo at or below 19 0C. The residual oil was solidified and triturated several times with ether giving a powder. After dissolving the powder in water, the pH was adjusted to 6.1 using dilute potassium hydroxide and hydrochloric acid. The solutionwas purified on an HP2OAG column 25 ml water was removed in vacuo, and the desired product was obtained as a powder 107 mg after trituration, with acetone.Anal. Calc d for C13H16N508P5K2 511.55 C, 30.52 H, 3.15 N, 13.69Found C, 28.03 H, 2.99 N, 10.16 C1, 2.73Analysis for chlorine indicates that sample contains about 5 potassium chloride. Example 21 d, Z cis 3 Benzyloxycarbonylamino 4 methoxy carbonylazetidin 2 one l phosphonic acid, dimethyl ester cis 3 Benzyloxycarbonylamino 4 methoxy carbonylazetidin 2 one 100 mg was dissolved in dry tetrahydrofuran 2 ml , cooled to 780C and treated with a 1.35 M solution of sec butyllithium 0.27 ml in cyclohexane. After stirring, several minutes, dimethylphosphorochloridate 37 ml was added and the mixture was stirred for 1.5 hours at 78 C. A crude oil was obtained by pouring the mixture into saturated sodium chloride solution, extracting twice with ethyl acetate, drying the combined extracts sodium sulfate and removing solvent in vacuo. Purification on preparative thin layer silica gel plates yielded the product as an oil t80 mg . Example 22 S tl Methoxy l piperidyl Dhosphinyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester To a solution of S 3 benzyloxycarbonylaminoazetidin 2 one 250 mg in dry tetrahydrofuran 7 ml cooled to 780Cwas added a 1.35 M solution of sec butyl lithium in cyclohexane 0.85 ml .After stirring at 780C for 0.5 hour, the mixture was added to a solution of methyl dichlorophosphate 115 p1 in tetrahydrofuran 3 ml cooled to 780C. The reaction was stirred for 1 hour at 780C, dry piperidine 227 p1 is added, and the solution was allowed to warm to roars temperature while stirring for 1.5 hours. Saturated sodium chloride solution 20 ml was added and the resulting mixture was extracted with two 25 ml portions of ethyl acetate. The combined extracts were dried sodium sulfate and removal of solvent in vacuo yields an oil, which was purified on silica gel plates developed in 9 1 ethyl acetate methanol. The desired product was obtained as an oily mixture of diastereomers. Example 23 S 3 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl methoxyimino acetyl amino 2 oxo 1 azetidinephosphoic acid A mixture of 3S Z 1 13 1 2 amino 4 thiazolyl methoxyimino acetylAamino 2 oxo 1 azetidinylAphosphonic acid, dimethyl ester 148 mg see example 8 and bis trimethylsilylacetamide 256 mg in dry dichloromethane 6 ml and dry dimethylformamide 0.8 ml was allowed to stir under nitrogen for 15 minutes.Trimethylsilyl bromide 192 mg was added at 5 0C and the reaction followed by thin layer chromatography for 6 hours noting that starting material was still present, additional amounts of bis trimethylsilylacetamide 256 mg and trimethylsilyl bromide 192 mg were added. The reaction was then allowed to stir overnight at 5 C under nitrogen. The solvents were removed in vacuo redissolving the residue in dry toluene three 20 ml portions several times and then removing the toluene in vacuo aids in the removal of any residual trimethylsilyl bromide. The residue was next taken up in dry tetrahydrofuran 15 ml and filtered to remqve the insoluble material. The tetrahydrofuran solution containing the product, when treated with 2 equivalents of distilled aniline 76 pi in ethanol 3 ml , precipitated 144 mg of a solid. The proton NMR spectrum showedthat a mono anilinium salt was formed. The anilinium salt 128 mg was placed on a 20 ml HP20AG column and eluted with 20Q ml of water. The product was isolated in fractions 5, 6, and 7 8 ml fractions are collected and these were combined and lyophilized to yield 18 mg of the product as a zwitterion, melting point 182 C, dec.Anal. Calc d for CgH12N5SPO6 MW 349.28 C, 30.95 H, 3.46 N, 20.05 Found C, 33.97 H, 4.04 N, 19.84 Example 24 3S Z 3 2 Amino 5 chloro 4 thiazolyl methoxyimino acetyl amino 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester, potassium saltA S 3 Amino 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester, potassium salt S 2 Oxo 3 Il phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester, potassium salt 150 mg see example 4 in ethanol was hydrogenated over 10 palladium on charcoal 75 mg at 1 atmosphere. Catalyst was removed by filtration through Celite on a Nillipore filter, and the solvent was removed in vacuo yielding the title compound.B 3S Z 3 2 Amino 5 chloro 4 thiazolyl methoxyimino acetyl amino 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester, potassium salt Z 2 Amino 5 chloro alpha methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetic acid 100 mg dissolved in 2 ml of dimethylformamide was treated with N hydroxybenzotriazole 69 mg and dicyclohexylcarbodiimide 93 mg . A solution of S 3 amino 2 oxo l azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester, potassium salt in 2.5 ml of dimethylformamide was added and the mixture was stirred for 2 days at room temperature. Precipitated dicyclohexylurea was removed by filtration and solvent was removed in vacuo. The residual oil was taken up in water, the pH was adjusted to 6.6 with dilute sodium bicarbonate solution, and the solution was filtered and concentrated in vacuo.Chromatography on Diaion HP20 resin 25 ml , eluting with water, gave the desired product as a glass. Trituration with acetonitrile ether, followed by ether, gave 52 mg of the title compound.Anal. calc d for CloH12ClN506PSK 0.5 dimethyl formamide C, 29.23 H, 3.31 N, 16.31 Found C, 29.21 H, 3.51 N, 15.65 Example 25 3S R 3 4 Ethyl 2,3 dioxo 1 piperazinyl carbonyl amino phenyl acetyl 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester, potassium salt An active ester was formed by stirring R alpha 4 ethyl 2,3 dioxo 1 piperazinyl carbonyl amino benzeneacetic acid 591 mg , N hydroxybenzotriazole hydrate 284 mg and dicyclohexylcarbodiimide 382 mg in 6 ml of dimethylformamide for 1 hour at OOC. S 3 Amino 2 oxo l azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester, potassium salt 400 mg, see example 24A in 1 ml of dimethylformamide was added and the mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight.Solvent was removed in vacuo, the residue was taken up in 4 ml of water and the precipitated dicyclohexylurea was removed by filtration. The pH of the mixture was adjusted to pH 6.8 by the addition of potassium bicarbonate solution. The solution was applied to a 125 ml column of HP20 resin and sequential elution with water, 10 acetone in water and finally 20 acetone in water provided 120 mg of the title compound.Anal. Calc d. for C19H23N5O8PX C, 42.45 H, 4.69 N, 13.03 P, 5.76 Found C, 42.42 H, 4.46 N, 12.84 P, 5.8 Example 26 3S R 3 Aminophenylacetyl amino 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl esterA 3S R 3 4 Methoxybenzyl oxy carbonyl amino phenylacetyl amino 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester A solution of l hydroxybenzotriazole hydrate 536 mg and p methoxybenzyl phenylglycine 116 mg in 10 ml of dry dimethylformamide was cooled to 0 C and treated with dicyclohexylcarbodiimide 722 mg . This mixture was stirred at 0 C for 30 minutes.At this time S 3 amino 2 oxo l azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester, potassium salt 655 mg see example 24A was added to the reaction mixture and the pH maintained between pH 6.5 and pH 7.0 by adding triethylamine as necessary. The reaction was stirred at 0 C for 30 minutes, and then at ambient temperature for 18 hours. The dimethylformamide was evaporated in vacuo at 300C, and the residue was slurried in acetone to precipitate dicyclohexylurea. The solid was removed and washed with three 5 ml portions of acetone.The acetone solutions were combined and concentrated in vacuo yielding an oily residue. The oil was dissolved in 6 ml of water and applied to a column of 75 ml of Dowex 50X2 400 Kb resin elution with water yielded 924 mg of impure potassium salt. A 900 mg portion of this material was applied to a 100 ml column of HP 20 resin in water. Elution with water followed by lyophilization of the appropriate fractions yielded 517 mg of the title compound, melting point 140 144 C, dec.B 3S R 3 Aminophenylacetyl amino 2 oxo l azetidinyl phosphinic acid, methyl ester 3S R 3 4 Methoxybenzyl oxy carbonyl amino phenylacetyl amino 2 oxo l azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester 378 mg was suspended in dry anisole 12 ml and cooled to 0 C in an ice bath under nitrogen. Distilled trifluoroacetic acid 20 ml was added and stirring at 0 C was continued for 3 hours. The reaction was diluted with 30 ml of dry toluene and the solvents removed in vacuo, yielding a semi solid. Toluene 25 ml was added and once more removed in vacuo yielding a solid 304 mg .The solid was dissolved in 5 ml of water and the pH of the mixture raised to pH 4 by adding 5 potassium bicarbonate solution. The solution was then applied to a 125 ml column of HP 20 resin in water. Elution with water followed by lyophilization yielded 168 mg of the title compound as a solid.Anal. Calc d. for C12H16N3O5Pl.3Mole H2O C, 42.92 H, 5.57 N, 12.48 P, 9.2 found C, 42.82 H, 5.39 N, 12.45 P, 9.1 Example 27 S 1 Diethoxyphosphinyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester To a solution of S 3 benzyloxycarbonyl amino 2 azetidinone 1.0 g in dry tetrahydrofuran 30 ml cooled to 78 0C was added a solution of n butyl lithium 2.91 ml of 1.56 M in hexane . After stirring several minutes diethyl phosphorochloridate 0.66 ml 4.54 mmol was added and the mixture was stirred at 780C for 1.5 hours.Saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution was added and after extracting three times with ethyl acetate, the combined extracts were dried Na2SO4 , and solvent was removed in vacuo.The resulting foam was chromatographed on a silica gel column 50 g, 60 200 mesh collecting ca. 25 ml fractions. Fractions Eluant 1 10 CH2C12 11 20 25 EtQAc 75 CH2C12, 21 29 50 EtOAc 50 CH2C12 30 40 EtOAcThe desired product 1.28 g was obtained as an oil from fractions 23 37. Example 28 S 2 Oxo 3 phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, ethyl ester, potassium salt A mixture of S Il diethoxyphosphinyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinylJcarbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester 807 mg see example 27 and thiourea 782 mg in acetonitrile 18 ml was reflexed under a nitrogen atmosphere for 48 hours. The mixture was concentrated in vacuo, diluted with acetonitrile 5 ml , and refluxed for ca. 3 hours more. Solvent was removed in vacuo, the residue was dissolved in water, tetrabutyl ammonium hydrogen sulfate 2.05 mmol was added, the ion paired product was extracted six times at pH 7 with dichloromethane and dried Na2SO4 . Removal of solvent gave an oil which was dissolved in water with enough acetone to make the mixture homogeneous. The solution was chromatographed on an ion exchange column Dowex 50X2 400 resin, from, 30 ml eluting with water 25 ml fractions .The first fraction gave pure product obtained as a powder 90 mg after trituration with ethyl acetate ether and then ether. Subsequent fractions were purified on HP 20 resin 50 ml to yield more product 406 mg .Anal. Calc d for C13H16N2O6PK.1.77H2O C, 39.20 H, 4.94 N, 7.04 P, 7.77Found C, 39.20 H,4.78 N, 7.24 P, 7.40 Example 29 3S Z 2 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 1 Ethoxyhydroxyphosphinyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid, dipotassium saltA 3S Z 2 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 1 ethoxyhydroxyphosphinyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid, benzhydryl ester To a pre hydrogenated suspension of 10 palladium on charcoal 150 mg in ethanol was added a solution of S 2 oxo 3 phenyl methoxy carbonyl amino 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, ethyl ester, potassium salt 300 mg see example 28 in ethanol.After 1.5 hours hydrogenolysis was complete, catalyst was removed by filtration through Celite on aMillipore filter, and solvent was removed from the filtrate in vacuo without heating.Coupling was performed with a mixed anhydride generated from Z 2 amino 1I2 diphenyl methoxy 1,1 dimethyl 2 oxoethoxy imino 4thiazoleacetic acid 417 mg dissolved in dry tetrahydrofuran 5 ml and cooled in an icemethanol bath at 15 to 200C and then treated with diphenyl phosphorochloridate 186 p1 followed by triethylamine 125 l . After stirring the mixture for 45 minutes at low temperature, it was added to a solution of the hydrogenolysis product in water and vigorously stirred. The pH was adjusted to ca. 6 7 with dilute potassium bicarbonate solution while stirring cold for 4.5 hours.Then solvent was removed in vacuo, the residue was re dissolved in water and the pH was lowered to 1.5 with dilute hydrochloric acid.After collecting the solid by filtration and triturating with water, the title compound was obtained ,625 mg . B I3S Z 2 III1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 t ethoxyhydroxyphospinyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid, dipotassium salt 3S Z 2 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 31 ethoxyhydroxyphosphinyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid, benzhydryl ester 601 mg was suspended in dry anisole 3 ml , cooled to O 50C, trifluoroacetic acid 6 ml was added and the mixture was stirred for 2.5 hours.Dilution with dry benzene 11 ml and concentration under reduced pressure gave an anisole containing oil which was worked into Åa hygroscopic powder with ether pentane and then washed with ether.The solid was dissolved in water, the pH was raised to pH 6.8 with dilute potassium bicarbonate solution, and the resulting solution was chromatographed on an HP 20 column 60 ml . The product was rapidly eluted with water, concentrated to a residue and triturated once with acetonitrile and twice with ether to give 277 mg of the title compound as a solid, melting point 200 C.Anal. calc d for C14H18N5O8PSK2l.77 H2O C, 30.20 H, 3.88 N, 12.58 S, 5.76 P, 5.56Found C, 30.20 H, 3.65 N, 12.60 S, 5.65 P, 5.5 Example 30 3S Z 3 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl methoxyimino acetyl amino 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, ethyl ester To a solution of Z 2 amino a methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetic acid 30 mg in 1 ml of dimethylformamide was added N hydroxybenzotriazole hydrate 23 mg and dicyclohexylcar bodiimide 31 mg . After stirring the mixture for about 4 minutes at room temperature, a solution of S 2 amino 2 oel azetidinyl phosphonic acid, ethyl ester, potassium salt generated from S 2 oxo 3 phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino l azetidinil phosphonic acid, ethyl ester, potassium salt 60 mg see example 28 using the hydrogenolysis procedure described in example 29A, was added in 1.7 ml of dimethylformamide stirring was continued for 24 hours under a nitrogen atmosphere. Solvent was removed in vacuo, and the residue was dissolved in water, filtered, the pH of the filtrate was raised to 5.6 with dilute potassium hydroxide and the mixture was chromatographed on HP 20 resin 8 ml . The product was triturated with acetone, ether, acetonitrile, and again with ether, and dried to give 57 mg of a powder.The powder was dissolved in water, the pH was lowered to 2.5 with dilute hydrochloric acid, and chromatography on about 10 ml of HP 20 resin eluting with water gave the title compound, which crystallized from acetone ether yield 39 mg . Example 31 3S Z 3 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl methoxyimino acetyl amino 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, 2fluoroethyl ester, potassium saltA S 3 1,1 Dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 2 oxo l azetidinyl phosphonic acid, 2 f luoroethyl ester, potassium salt To phosphoryl chloride 50 ml in 40 ml of carbon tetrachloride at ambient temperature was added dropwise 2 f luoroethanol 25 g . The reaction was stirred overnight at room temperature and then ref lured for 3 hours. Vacuum distillation at 88 98 C yielded 21.0 g of 2 fluoroethyl dichlorophosphate. A solution of S 3 1,1 dimethylethoxy carbonyl aminojazetidin 2 one in 20 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran at 780C was treated with 1.94 ml of 1.7 N n butyl lithium. After 30 minutes the reaction mixture was added to 2 f luoroethyl dichlorophosphate 0.39 ml in 10 ml of tetrahydrofuran at 750C and stirred for 1 hour.The resulting mixture was then poured into a rapidly stirring suspension of 30 ml of pH 6 phosphate buffer and 30 ml of dioxane at QOC. The reaction mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 1 hour and then placed at 50C overnight.Evaporation of the volatiles followed by chromatography on HP 20 eluting with water, 20 acetone water, and 40 acetone water yielded 420 mg of the title compound.B 35 z 3 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl methoxy imino acetyl amino 2 oxo 1 acetidinyl phosphonic acid, 2 fluoroethyl ester, potassium salt Diisopropylethylamine 0.115 ml was added to 121 mg of S 2 amino a methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetic acid 121 mg in 2 ml of dimethylformamide at 23 C. The mixture was cooled to 200C, diphenylphosphinyl chloride 0.110 ml was added, and the resulting mixture was stirred for 2 hours to give a mixed anhydride. S 3 1,1 Dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 2 oxo l azetidinyl phosphonic acid, 2fluoroethyl ester, potassium salt 210 mg was dissolved in 0.3 ml of anisole and cooled to OOC. Trifluoroacetic acid 3 ml was added, and the resulting mixture was stirred at. 0 C for 1 hour. The volatiles were evaporated and the residue was triturated with petroleum ether and anhydrous ether to yield the trifluoroacetic acid salt of S 3 amino 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, 2 fluoroethyl ester as a powder. After evacuation for 1 hour, the residue was dissolved in 2 ml of dimethylformamide, and upon cooling to 00C, 0.5 ml of diisopropylethylamine was added. The reaction mixture containing the mixed anhydride was then added to the azetidinone. After stirring at SOC overnight, the volatiles were removed under vacuum. The residue was purified by column chromatography with water on Dowex 50X2 400 resin K form followed by chromatography on HP 20 eluting with water to yield 146 mg of the title compound, melting point 170 215 C, dec. Anal. Calc d for C11H14FN5O6PS.K.2H2O C, 28.14 H, 3.83 N, 14.92Found C, 28.18 H, 3.63 N, 14.80 Example 32 3S Z 13 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl methoxyimino acetyl amino 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, 2,2,2 trifluoroethyl ester, potassium saltA S 3 1,1 Dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 2 oxo l azetidinyl phosphonic acid, 2,2,2 trifluoroethyl ester, potassium salt A solution of S 3 1,1 dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino azetidin 2 one 557 mg in 20 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran at 78 C was treated with 1.94 ml of 1.7 N n butyl lithium. After 30 minutes the reaction mixture was added to 2,2, 2 trifluoroethyl dichlorophosphate 0.42 ml in 10 ml of tetrahydrofuran at 750C and stirred for 1 hour.The resulting mixture was then poured into a rapidly stirring suspension of 30 ml of pH 6 phosphate and 30 ml of dioxane at 0 C. The reaction mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 1 hour and then placed at 5 C overnight. Evaporation of the volatiles followed by chromatography on HP 20 resin yielded 400 mg, of the title compound.B 3S Z 3 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl methoxyimino acetyl amino 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, 2,2,2 trifluoroethyl ester Diisopropylethylamine 0.115 ml was added to a 121 mg of Z 2 amino methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetic acid 121 mg in 2 ml of dimethylformamide at 23 C. The mixture was cooled to 200C, diphenylphosphinyl chloride 0.110 ml was added, and the resulting mixture was stirred for 2 hours to give a mixed anhydride. S 3 I l,l Dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 2 oxo l azetidinyllphosphonic acid, 2,2,2 trifluoroethyl ester, potassium salt 232 mg was suspended in 0.3 ml of anisole and cooled to 0 C. Trifluoroacetic acid 3 ml was added, and the resulting mixture was stirred at 0 C.for 1 hour. The volatiles were evaporated and the residue was triturated with petroleum ether and anhydrous ether to yield the trifluoroacetic acid salt of S 3 amino 2 oxo 1 azedtidinyl phosphonic acid, 2,2,2 trifluoroethyl ester as a powder. After evacuation for 1 hour, the residue was dissolved in 2 ml of dimethylformamide, and upon cooling to OOC, 0.5 ml of diisopropylethylamine was added. The reaction mixture containing the mixed anhydride was then added to the azetidinone. After stirring at 5 C overnight, the volatiles were removed under vacuum. The residue was purified by column chromatography with water on Dowex 50X2 400 resin K form followed by chromatography on HP 20 resin eluting with water to yield 74 mg of the title compound, melting point 175 C, dec. Example 33 13s z 3 2 i Il 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 hydroxy 2,2,2 trifluoroethoxy phosphinyl 2oxo 3 acetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid, dipotassium saltA 3S Z 2 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 1 hydroxy 2,2,2 trifluoroethoxy phosphinyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid, benzhydryl ester Diisopropylethylamine 0.115 ml was added to Z 2 amino alpha 2 diphenylmethoxy 1,1 dimethyl 2 oxoethoxy imino 4 thiazoleacetic acid 278 mg in 2 ml of dimethylformamide at 230C. The mixture was cooled to 200C, diphenylphosphinyl chloride 0.110 ml was added, and the resulting mixture was stirred for 2.5 hours to give a mixed anhydride. S 3 1,1 Dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, 2,2,2 trifluoroethyl ester, potassium salt 232 mg see example 32A was dissolved in 0.3 ml of anisole and cooled to 0 C. Trifluoroacetic acid 3 ml was added, and the resulting mixture was stirred at 0 C for 1 hour. The volatiles were evaporated, and the residue was triturated with petroleum ether and anhydrous ether to yield the trifluoroacetic acid salt of S 3 amino 2 oxo 1 zetidinyl phosphonic acid, 2,2,2 trifluoroethyl ester as a powder. After evacuation for 0.5 hour, the residue was dissolved in 2 ml of dimethylformamide, and upon cooling to 0 C, 0.5 ml of diisopropylethylamine was added. The reaction mixture containing the mixed anhydride was then added to the azetidinone. After stirring at 50C overnight, the volatiles were removed under vacuum. The residue was purified by column, chromatography on Dowex 50X2 400 resin K form followed by chromatography on IIP 20 eluting with 40 acetone water to yield 223 mg of the title compound. B 3S Z 2 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 1 hydroxy 2,2,2 trifluoroethoxy phospinyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxyi 2 methylproPanoic acid, dipotassium salt 3S Z 2 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 E Il hydroxy , 2, 2 trifluoroethoxy phosphinyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid, benzhydryl ester 223 mg was dissolved in 1.5 ml of anisole and cooled to OOC. Trifluoroacetic acid 3 ml was added, and the resulting mixture was stirred at 0 C for 2 hours. The volatiles were evaporated, and the residue was triturated with petroleum ether and anhydrous ether.The residue was dissolved in water, and the pH was adjusted to 7 with potassium bicarbonate. The residue was then purified by chromatography on HP 20 resin eluting with water to yield 131 mg of the title compound, melting point 200 C, dec. Example 34 3S Z 2 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 1 butoxyhydroxyphosphinyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino 2 methylpropanoic acid, dipotassium saltA S 2 Oxo 3 1,1 dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, n butyl ester, potassium salt To phosphoryl chloride 50 ml in 40 ml of carbon tetrachloride at ambient temperature was added dropwise n butanol 29.65 g . After the initial exothermic reaction subsided, the reaction mixture was refluxed for 3 hours.Vacuum distillation at 88 1030C yielded 59.114 g of n butyl dichlorophosphate. A solution of S 3 II 1,1 dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino azetidin 2 one 1.116 g in 40 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran at 780C was treated with 4.26 ml of 1.55 N n butyl lithium. After 30 minutes, the reaction mixture was added to. n butyl dichlorophosphate 0.99 ml in 20 ml of tetrahydrofuran at 780C and stirred for 1 hour.The resulting mixture was then poured into a rapidly stirring suspension of 30 ml of pH 6 phosphate and 30 ml of dioxane at OOC. The reaction mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 1 hour and then placed at 5 C overnight.Evaporation of the volatiles followed by chromatography on HP 20 resin eluting with water, 10 acetone water, 20 acetone water, and 40 acetone water yielded 850 mg of the title compound.B 3S Z 2 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 1 butoxyhydroxyphosphinyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methyl propanoic acid, benzhydryl ester, potassium salt Diisopropylethylamine 0.115 ml was added to 300 mg of Z 2 amino a t2 diphenyl methoxy 1,1 dimethyl 2 oxoethoxy imino 4thiazoleacetic acid 300 mg in 2 ml of dimethylformamide at 23 C. The mixture was cooled to 200C, diphenylphosphinyl chloride 0.110 ml was added, and the resulting mixture was stirred for 2 hours to give a mixed anhydride. S 2 Oxo 3 1,1 dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino l azetidinyl phosphonic acid, n butyl ester, potassium salt 216 mg was dissolved in 0.3 ml of anisole and cooled at OOC. Trifluoroacetic acid 3 ml was added, and the resulting mixture was stirred at 0 C for 1 hour.The volatiles were evaporated and the residue was triturated with petroleum ether and anhydrous ether to yield the trifluoroacetic acid salt of S 3 amino 2 oxo l azetidinyl phosphonic acid, butyl ester as a powder. After evacuation for 1 hour, the residue was dissolved in 2 ml of dimethylformamide, and upon cooling to 00C, 0.5 ml of diisopropylethylamine was added.The reaction mixture containing the mixed anhydride was then added to the azetidinone. After stirring at 5 C overnight, the volatiles were removed under vacuum. The residue was purified by column chromatography with water onDowex 50X2 400 resin form followed by chromatography on HP 20 resin eluting with 40 acetone water to yield 180 mg of the title compound. C 3S Z 2 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 1 butoxyhydroxyphosphj nyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid, dipotassium salt I3s z 2 III1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 1 butoxyhydroxyphosphinyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid, benzhydryl ester potassium salt 180 mg was dissolved in 1.5 ml of anisole and cooled to OOC. Trifluoroacetic acid 3 ml was added, and the resulting mixture was stirred at 0 C for 2 hours. The volatiles were evaporated and the residue was triturated with petroleum ether and anhydrous ether. After evacuation for 1 2 hour, the residue was dissolved in water and the pH was adjusted to 7 by the addition of potassium bicarbonate.The residue was then purified by chromatography on HP 20 resin eluting with water to yield 82 mg of the title compound, melting point 180 185 C, dec. Example 35 3S Z 3 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl methoxyimino acetyl amino 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, n butyl ester, potassium salt Diisopropylethylamine 0.115 ml was added to 121 mg of Z 2 amino a methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetic acid 121 mg in 2 ml of dimethylformamide at 230C. The mixture was cooled to 200C and diphenylchlorophosphate 0.125.ml was added, and the resulting mixture was stirred for 1 2 hour to yield a mixed anhydride. S 2 Oxo 3 1,1 dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, n butyl ester, potassium salt 216 ing see example 34A was dissolved in 0.3 ml of anisole and cooled to 0 C. Trifluoroacetic acid 3 ml was added, and the resulting mixture was stirred at 0 C for 1 hour. The volatiles were evaporated and the residue was triturated with petroleum ether and anhydrous ether to yield the trifluoroacetic acid salt of S 3 amino 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, butyl ester. After evacuation for 1 2 hour, the residue was dissolved in 2 ml of dimethylformamide, and upon cooling to 0 C, 0.5 ml of diisopropylethylamine was added. The reaction mixture containing the mixed anhydride was then added to the azetidinone. After stirring at 50C overnight, the volatiles were removed under vacuum. The residue was purified by column chromatography with water onDowex 50X2 400 resin Kv form followed by chromatography on HP 20 resin ,eluting with water and 10 acetone water to yield 130 mg of the title compound, melting point 1780C, dec. Example 36 3S Z 3 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl methoxyimino acetyl amino 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, phenyl ester, potassium saltA S 3 1,1 Dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 2 oxo 1 azetidinyljphosphonic acid, phenyl ester, potassium salt A solution of S 3 1,1 dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 2 azetidinone 558 mg in 20 ml of tetrahydrofuran at 780C was treated with 1.94 ml of 1.7 N n butyl lithium. After 30 minutes the reaction mixture was added to phenyl dichlorophosphate 0.45 ml, 3.0 mmol in 10 ml of tetrahydrofuran at 75 0C and stirred for 1 hour.The resulting mixture was then poured into a rapidly stirring suspension of 30 ml of pH 6 phosphate buffer and 30 ml of dioxane at 0 C. The reaction mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 1 hour and then placed at 5 C overnight. Evaporation of the volatiles followed by chromatography on HP 20 eluting with water followed by 40 acetonewater yielded 670 mg of the title compound.B 3S Z 3 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl methoxyimino acetyl amino 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, phenyl ester, potassium salt Triethylamine 0.091 ml was added to 121 mg of Z 2 amino alpha methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetic acid 121 mg in 2 ml of dimethylformaide at 23 C. The mixture was cooled to 200C and diphenyl chlorophosphate 0.123 ml was added, and the resulting mixture was stirred for 45 minutes to yield a mixed anhydride. S 3 1,1 Dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 2 oxo l azetidinyl phosphonic acid, phenyl ester, potassium salt 228 mg was dissolved in 0.3 ml of anisole and cooled to OOC. Trifluoroacetic acid 3 ml was added,and the resulting mixture was stirred at 00C for 1 hour. The volatiles were evaporated and the residue was triturated with petroleum ether and anhydrous ether to yield the trifluoroacetic acid salt of 3 amino 2 oxol azetidinylphosphonic acid, phenyl ester as a powder. After evaucation for 1 hour, the residue was dissolved in 2 ml of water, and upon cooling to 5 C the pH was adjusted to ca.7 with solid potassium bicarbonate.The reaction mixture containing the mixed anhydride was then added to the azetidinone, and the pB was maintained at 7.0 7.3 with potassium bicarbonate and dilute hydrochloric acid. After stirring at 50C overnight, the volatiles were removed under vacuum. The residue was purified by column chromatography with water onDowex 50X2 400 resin K form followed by chromatography on EP 20 eluting with water followed by 1096 acetone water to yield 96 mg of the title compound containing ca. 3 equivalent of potassium diphenyl phosphate . Example 37 3S 3 alpha Z ,4ss 2 1 2 AMino 4 thiazolyl 2 4 methyl 2 oxo 1 hydroxymethoxyphosphinyl 3azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropano ic acidA 3S trans 4 Methyl 2 oxo 3 1,1 dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, dimethyl ester 3S trans 3 1,1 Dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 4 methyl 2 azetidinone 5.0 g dissolved in dry tetrahydrofuran 75 ml was cooled to 78 C under an inert atmosphere and 1.56 N n butyl lithium in hexane 16 ml was added while stirring. After several minutes dimethyl phosphorochloridate 3.0 ml was added and the mixture was stirred at 78 C for 1.5 hours.Phosphate buffer 0.5 M, pH 5.5, 100 ml and saturated sodium chloride solution 100 ml were added and the mixture was extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The combined extracts were dried Na2SO4 and solvent was removed in vacuo yielding an oil which crystallized from ethyl acetate ether hexane 5.2 g, melting point 89 940C . Chromatography of the solid on 125 g of silica gel using rapid elution with ethyl acetate yielded the title compound as an oil, which crystallized from etherpentane yielding 4.4 g, melting point 97.5 98.5 C. B 3S trans 14 Nethyl 2 oxo 3 Ii 1,1 dimethyl ethoxy carbonyl amino 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester, thiuronium salt 3S trans 4 Methyl 2 oxo 3 1,1 dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, dimethyl ester 4.25 g and thiourea 1.05 g were refluxed in acetonitrile 50 ml under a nitrogen atmosphere for 24 hours. On cooling, the title compound crystallized, was collected by filtration and washed with cold acetonitrile followed by ether. After drying in vacuo, the title compound was obtained as a powder 4.68 g , melting point 168 169 C.C 3S trans 4 Methyl 2 oxo 3 1 1, l dimethyl ethoxy carbonyl amino 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester, potassium salt A solution of 3S trans 14 methyl 2 ozo 3 1,1 dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester, thiuronium salt 4.40 g in water was passed through 110 ml of ion exchange resin Dowex 50X2 400, e form, 0.7 meq ml .Removal of water in vacuo followed by slurrying with acetonitrile and removal of solvent under reduced pressure gave a semi solid residue.Trituration with acetone ether followed by ether yielded 3.83 g of the title compound as a powder. D 3S trans 13 Amino 4 methyl 2 oxo l azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester, trif uoroacetate salt 3S trans 4 Methyl 2 oxo 3 1,1 dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 1 azetidinyl phosphonic aicd, methyl ester, potassium salt 300 mg suspended in dry anisole 0.3 ml , under a nitrogen atmosphere, was cooled to 0 5 C and trifluoracetic acid 3 ml was added while stirring. After 1.25 hours, trifluoroacetic acid removed in vacuo without heating and residual acid was chased under reduced pressure with toluene. The residual oil was solidified and triturated with ether yielding a powder.E 3S 3 alpha Z ,4ss 2 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 4 methyl 2 oxo 1 hydroxymethoxyphosphinyl 3 azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidenelamino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid, benzhydryl ester A mixed anhydride was formed by dissolving Z 2 amino a 1 2 diphenylmethoxy 1,1 dimethyl 2 oxoethoxy imino 4 thiazoleacetic acid containing 0.4 equivalents of isopropanol 544 mg and triethylamine 162 l in dry tetrahydrofuran 5 ml , cooling in an ice methanol bath at 240C, and adding diphenyl phosphorochloridate 242 p1 . After stirring the mixture in the cooling bath for 20 minutes it was poured into a solution of 3S trans 3 amino 4 methyl 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester, trifluoroacetate salt dissolved in water 5 ml and adjusted to pH 7 with 5 potassium bicarbonate solution while cooling in an ice bath. Tetrahydrofuran 4 ml was used to wash the anhydride into the reaction vessel. While maintaining the pH at 6.5 8.0 the mixture was stirred at 0 50C for 3.5 hours and then at room temperature for 2 hours. Solvent was removed in vacuo, the residue was taken up in water and the pH was lowered to 2 with 1N hydrochloric acid. The resulting precipitate was collected by centrifugation, washed with water and dried.The solid was triturated with acetone ether and ether, and dried, yielding 530 mg of the title compound containing ca. 0.5 equivalents of the side chain acid.F 3S 3 alpha Z ,4ss 2 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 4 methyl 2 oxo 1 hydroxymethoxyphosphinyl 3azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2methylpropanoic acid 3S E3a Z ,4 2 l 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 4 methyl 2 oxo 1 hydroxymethoxyphosphinyl 3azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2methylpropanoic acid, benzhydryl ester 507 mg was suspended in dry anisole 3 ml , cooled in an ice bath under a nitrogen atmosphere, and trifluoroacetic acid 6 ml was added with stirring, thereby dissolving the solid. After 2 hours, dry toluene 10 ml was added and solvent was removed in vacuo without heating. The residual oil was solidified and triturated three times with ether. ,The powder was suspended in water, and was dissolved by raising the pH to 2.5 with dilute potassium carbonate solution.After filtration and concentration in vacuo, the pH, which had risen to 2.8, was lowered to 2.4 with dilute trifluoroacetic acid. The acidic solution was chromatographed on HP 20 resin 100 ml and the product was eluted with 10 acetone 90 water. Removal of solvent, followed by trituration with ether and drying yielded the title product 235 mg melting point 187.5 193 C dec. . Example 38 3S 3 alpha R ,4ss 3 Aminophenylacetyl amino 4 methyl 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl esterA 3S 3a R ,4 3 If I I p4iethoxyphenyl methyl oxy carbonyl amino phenyl acetyl amino 4methyl 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester, potassium salt A solution of l hydroxybenzotriazole 766 mg and p methoxybenzyl phenylglycine, in 12 ml of dry dimethylformamide was cooled to 0 C and treated with dicyclohexylcarbodiimide 1.03 g .The mixture was stirred at 0 C for 30 minutes. 35 trans I3 Amino 4 methyl 2 oxo l azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester, trifluoroacetate salt 2.07 g see example 37D was treated with 1 equivalent of triethylamine 454 mg in 6 ml of dry dimethylformamide and the solution was added to the reaction mixture. The pH was maintained between 6.5 and 7.0 by adding triethylamine as necessary. The reaction was stirred at 0 C for 30 minutes, and then at ambient temperature for 18 hours. The dimethylformamide was evaporated in vacuo at 300C, and the residue was slurried in acetone to precipitate dicyclohexylurea. The solid was removed and washed with three 5 ml portions of acetone. The acetone solutions were combined and concentrated in vacuo yielding an oily residue.The oil was dissolved in 6 ml of 30 acetone water applied to a column of 75 ml of Dowex 50X2 400 K4 resin and eluted with 30 acetone water to yield 2.36 g of impure potassium salt. The potassium salt was applied to a 200 ml column of HP 20 resin in water. Sequential elution with water, 5 acetone in water, 10 acetone in water, and finally 20 acetone in water provided 1.28 g of impure material.B 3S 3 alpha R ,4ss 3 Aminophenylacetyl amino 4 methyl 2 oxo l azetidinyl3phosphonic acid, methyl ester 3S 3 alpha R .4ss 3 p Methoxyphenyl methyl oxy carbonyl amino phenyl acetyl amino 4methyl 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester, potassium salt 1.28 g was suspended in dry anisole 25 ml and cooled to 0 C in an ice bath under nitrogen. Distilled trifluoroacetic acid 50 ml was added and stirring at 0 0C was continued for 3.5 hours. The reaction was diluted with 50 ml of distilled toluene and the solvents were removed in vacuo without heating yielding a semi solid.Toluene 40 ml was added again and removal in vacuo yielded a solid 1.41 g . The solid was dissolved in S ml of water and the pH of the mixture raised to pH 4 by adding 5 potassium bicarbonate solution.The solution was then applied to a 200 ml column of HP 20 resin in water. Elution with water followed by lyophilization yielded 98 mg of the title compound as a solid. Anal. calc d for C13Hl8N305P 0.4H2O C, 46.75 H, 5.66 N, 12.58 found C, 46.75 H, 5.67 N, 12.51 Example 39 3S 3 alpha Z ,4ss 3 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl methoxyimino acetyl amino 4 methyl 2 oxo l azetidinyl 3 phosphonic acid, methyl ester, potassium salt 3S trans 4 Methyl 2 oxo 3 1,1 dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester, potassium salt 55 mg see example 37C was dissolved in 96 98 formic acid 2 ml and stirred overnight at room temperature.Removal of solvent in vacuo gave 3S trans 3 amino 4 methyl 2 oxo l azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester containing potassium formate. Z 2 Amino alpha methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetic acid 40 mg and triethylamine 28 p1 were dissolved in dry dimethylformamide 1.5 ml , cooled in an ice methanol bath 200C and diphenyl phosphorochloridate 41 p1 was added to form a mixed anhydride. After ca. 0.5 hour of stirring at 150 to 200C, the mixture was added to a solution of the above formed azetidinone in water and cooled in an ice bath.Triethylamine 28 il was added, the mixture was stirred with cooling for 4.5 hours, and a second batch of mixed anhydride and triethylamine were added stirring was continued overnight at 0 5 C. Solvent was removed in vacuo, the oily residue was diluted with water and after standing for 1 day at 0 5 C a solid the side chain acid was removed by filtration. The filtrate was passed through an ion exchange resin CS ml, Dowex 50X2 400, Ke form and chromatographed on HP 20 resin 12 ml . The title compound 30 mg was eluted with water and solidified with acetonitrile. After trituration with ether and drying1 the title compound was obtained as a powder. Anal. calc d for C11H15N5O6PSK C, 31.80 H, 3.64 N, 16.86 Found C, 32.30 H, 3.97 N, 16.05 Example 40 3S 3 alpha Z ,4ss 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 Il hydroxymethylphosphinyl 4 methyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy acetic acid, dipotassium salt Following the procedure of example 37, but substituting Z 2 amino o 1 2 diphenyl methoxy 2 oxoethoxy imino 4 thiazoleacetic acid for Z 2 amino alpha 2 diphenylmethoxy 1,1 dimethyl 2 oxoethoxy imino 4 thiazolacetic acid, yielded the title compound.Anal. calc d for C12H14N5O8P5K2 C, 28.97 H, 2.84 N, 14.08 P, 6.23 Found C, 26.15 H, 2.42 N, 11.54 P, 4.9 Example 41 35 I3a Z ,4 8 2 f Il 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 1 hydroxyethoxyphosphinyl 4 methyl 2 oxo 3azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2methylpropanoic acid, dipotassium saltA 3S trans I4 Methyl 2 oxo 3 I I 1,1 dimethyl ethoxy carbonyl amino 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, diethyl ester 3S trans 3 1,1 Dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 4 methyl 2 azetidinone 4.6 g was dissolved in 75 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran and cooled to 78 C in a dry ice acetone bath under a nitrogen atmosphere, and was treated with 1.56 M n butyl lithium 14.8 ml, 1 equivalent .The mixture was stirred for 30 minutes at 78 0C and then diethylphosphorochloridate 3.97 g was added and stirring continued for 1 hour. The mixture was poured into saturated sodium chloride solution 60 ml and extracted with ethyl acetate three 40 ml portions .The extracts were combined and dried over anhydrous Na2SO4 and the solvent removed in vacuo. The residue was chromatographed on 125 g of silica gel eluted with ethyl acetate. Removal of solvent in vacuo followed by trituration with ether and drying yielding 4.72 g of the title compound, melting point 101 103. C. B 3S trans 4 Methyl 2 oxo 3 1,1 dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, ethyl ester, potassium salt A solution of the 3S trans 4 methyl 2 oxo 3 1 I 1,l dimethylethOxy carbonyl aminol l azetidinyl phosphonic acid, diethyl ester 1.0 g was dissolved in acetonitrile 18 ml , thiourea 5 equivalents, 1.13 g was added, and the mixture was reflexed under a nitrogen atmosphere for 60 hours. Solvent was removed in tacuo and the residue was dissolved in water. Passage of the solution through a 50 ml column of Dowex K form ion exchange resin, followed by removal of water in vacuo from the eluate gave the title potassium salt as an oil. The oily residue was applied to a 100 ml column of HP 20 resin in water.Elution with water and lyophilization yielded 560 mg of the title compound as a powder.C 3S trans 3 Amino 4 methyl 2 oxo l azetidinyl phosphonic acid, ethyl ester, trifluoroacetate salt A suspension of 3S trans 14 methyl 2 oxo 3 II l,l dimethylethoxy carbonylAaminol l azetidinyl phosphonic acid, ethyl ester, potassium salt 500 mg in anisole 5 ml was cooled to 240C in an ice methanol bath, and trifluoroacetic acid 10 ml was added. The mixture was stirred at 240C to 12 C for 3 hours, diluted with dry toluene 25 ml , and solvent was removed in vacuo at or below 190C. The residual oil was solidified and triturated several times with ether giving 815 mg of the title compound as a powder.D 3S 3 alpha Z ,4ss 2 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 1 hydjroxyethoxyphosphinyl 2 methyl 4 oxo 3azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2methylpropanoic acid, benzhydryl ester, potassium salt A solution of l hydroxybenzotriazole 230 mg and Z 2 amino alpha 2 diphenylmethoxy 1,1 dimethyl 2 oxoethoxy imino 4 thiazoleacetic acid 750 mg in 5 ml of dry dimethylformamide was cooled to 0 0C and treated with dicyclohexylcarbodiimide 310 mg . This mixture was stirred at 0 C for 30 minutes. 3S trans 3 Amino 4methyl 2 oxo l azetidinyl phosphonic acid, ethyl ester, trifluoroacetate salt 793 mg was treated with 1 equivalent of triethylamine 151 mg in 5 ml of dimethylformamide and was added to the reaction mixture the pH was maintained between 6.5 and 7.0 by adding triethylamine as nedessary.The reaction was stirred at 0 C for 30 minutes and then at ambient temperature for 16 hours.The pH of the reaction was found to have fallen to 5.4 and was readjusted to 6.8 with triethylamine. An additional portion of active ester was prepared a solution of l hydroxybenzotriazole 230 mg and Z 2 amino alpha 2 diphenylmethoxy 1,1 dimethyl 2 oxoethoxy imino 4 thiazolecacetic acid 750 mg in 5 ml of dry dimethylformamide was cooled to 0 C and treated with dicyclohexylcarbodiimide 310 mg . This mixture was stirred at 0 C for 30 minutes and was added to the mixture containing the 35 trans 3 amino 4 methyl 2 oxo l azetidinyl phosphonic acid, ethyl ester, trifluoroacetate salt. Stirring was continued for 18 hours at room temperature keeping the pH between 6.5 and 7.0. The precipitated dicyclohexylurea was filtered and the dimethylformamide removed in vacuo yielding an oil.The residue was dissolved in water 6 ml and the insoluble dicyclohexylurea filtered. The solution was applied to a 75 ml Dowex 50X2 400 K ion exchange column eluting with water and yielded 720 mg of impure potassium salt. The potassium salt was dissolved in 4 ml of water and applied to a 100 ml column of .HP 20 resin in water. Sequential elution with water, 10t acetone in water, 20 acetone in water, and finally 30 acetone in water provided 228 mg of the title compound. E 3S 3 alpha Z ,4ss 2 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 4 1 hydroxyethoxyphosphinyl 4 methyl 2 oxo 3azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2methylpropanoic acid, dipotassium salt 3S 3 alpha Z ,4ss 2 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 1 hydroxyethoxyphosphinyl 2 methyl 4 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene aminoZoxyl 2 methylpropanoic acid, benzhydryl ester, potassium salt 220 mg was suspended in dry anisole 10 ml and cooled to 0 0C in an ice bath under nitrogen.Distilled trifluoroacetic acid 15 ml was added and stirring at 0 C was continued for 3.5 hours. The reaction was diluted with 25 ml of distilled toluene and the solvents were removed in vacuo without heating yielding a solid. The solid was dissolved in 4 ml of water and the pH adjusted to 6.8 with dilute potassium bicarbonate solution, and then applied to a 100 ml column of HP 20 resin in water. Elution with water followed by lyophilization yielded 158 mg of the title compound as a solid N.M.R. DZO shows material is an etherate. Fluorine analysis indicates the presence od 6.18 potassium trifluoroacetate.Anal. Calc d. for C15H20N5O8PS 2K C, 33.39 H, 3.74 N, 12.98 Found C, 27.54 H, 3.18 N, 7.81 F, 12.07 Example 42 3S 3 alpha Z ,4ss 3 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl methoxy imino acetyl amino 2 methyl 4 oxo 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, ethyl ester, potassium salt A solution of l hydroxybenzotriazole 222 mg and Z 2 amino methoxy imino 4 thia zoleacetic acid 292 mg in 6 ml of dry dimethylformamide was cooled to 0 C and treated with dicyclohexylcarbodiimide 329 mg , stirring at 0 C for 30 minutes. 3S trans 3 Amino 4 methyl 2 oxo 1azetidinyl phosphonic acid, ethyl ester, trifluoroacetate salt 520 mg see example 41C was treated with I equivalent of triethylamine 146 mg in 4 ml of dry dimethylformamide at 0 C and the solution was added to the reaction mixture, maintaining the pH between 6.5 and 7.0 by the addition of triethylamine as required. The reaction was stirred at 0 0C for 30 minutes, and then at ambient temperature for 18 hours. The dimethylformamide was evaporated in vacuo at 30 C, and the residue was taken up in 4 ml of water. The insoluble dicyclohexylurea was removed and the solution applied to a column of 50 ml of Dowex 50X2 400 gK resin eluting with water yielding 310 mg of potassium salt. A 300 mg portion of the potassium salt was applied to a 75 ml column of HP 20 resin in water.Elution with water gave 130 mg of the title compound as a solid, melting point 154 156 C, dec.Anal. Calc d for C12H17N5O6PSKlH2O C, 32.09 H, 4.31 N, 15.59 P, 6.9 Found C, 32.09 H, 4.17 N, 15.37 P, 6.9 Example 43 3S 3 alpha Z ,4ss 3 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl methoxy imino acetyl amino 4 methyl 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, diethyl esterA 3S trans 3 Amino 4 methyl 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, diethyl ester, trifluoroacetic acid salt 3S trans X4 Methyl 2 oxo 3 t l,l dimethyl ethoxy carbonyl amino 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, diethyl ester 1.0 g see example 41A was suspended in dry anisole 10 ml and cooled to 0 C in an ice bath under nitrogen. Distilled trifluoroacetic acid 15 ml was added and stirring at 0 C was continued for 3.5 hours.The reaction was diluted with 25 ml of distilled toluene and the solvents were removed in vacuo without heating yielding a solid. Toluene was again added two 25 ml portions and removed in vacuo and the resulting solid triturated with anhydrous ether 30 ml . The solid was dried in vacuo at room temperature yielding 1.0 g of the title salt.B 3S 3 alpha Z ,4ss 3 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl methoxyimino acetyl amino 4 methyl 2 oxo l azetidinyl phosphonic acid, diethyl ester A solution of l hydroxybenzotriazole 475 mg and Z 2 amino alpha methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetic acid 624 mg in 12 ml of dry dimethylformamide was cooled to 0 C and treated with dicyclohexylcarbodiimide 1053 mg , stirring at 0 C for 30 minutes. 3S trans 3 Amino 4 methyl 2 oxo l azetidinyl phosphonic acid, diethyl ester, trifluoroacetic acid salt was treated with 1 equivalent of triethylamine 303 mg in 8 ml of dimethylformamide and the solution was added to the reaction mixture. The pH was maintained between 6.5 and 7.0 by adding triethylamine as required. The reaction was stirred for 30 minutes at 0 C and then overnight at ambient temperature. The dimethylformamide was removed in vacuo at 300C, and the residue was dissolved in 6 ml of ethyl acetate and applied to a 250 ml column of CC 4 silica.gel.Elution with 10 ethanol in ethyl acetate followed by elution with 25 ethanol in ethyl acetate provided 380 mg of an oily residue.The residue was crystallized twice from ethyl acetate yielding 110 mg of the title compound as a solid, melting point 110 1120C.Anal. Calc d for C14H22N5SPO6 C, 40.09 H, 5.29 N, 16.70 P, 7.4 Pound C, 39.86 H, 5.26 N, 16.61 P, 7.4 Example 44 3S 3 alpha Z ,4 alpha 2 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 21 14 methyl 2 oxo 1 hydroxymethoxyphos,nhinyl 3 azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2methylpropanoic acid, dipotassium saltA 3S cis 4 Methyl 2 oxo 3 1,1 dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, dimethyl ester 3S cis 3 1,1 Dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 4 methyl 2 azetidinone 918 mg dissolved in dry tetrahydrofuran 25 ml was cooled to 78 C under an inert atmosphere and 1.56 M n butyl lithium 3 ml was added while stirring.After thirty minutes dimethyl phosphorochloridate 3.0 ml was added and the mixture was stirred at 78 C for 2 hours. Saturated sodium chloride solution 20 ml was added and the mixture allowed to warm to room temperature and extracted three times with 30 ml ethyl acetate portions. The combined extracts were dried Na2S04 and solvent was removed in vacuo yielding an oil. Chromatography of the oil dissolved in 4 ml of ethyl acetate on a 34 g silica gel column eluting with ethyl acetate yielded 875 mg of the title compound. B 3S cis 4 Methyl 2 oxo 3 1,1 dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester, potassium salt 3S cis 4 Methyl 2 oxo 3 1,1 dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, dimethyl ester 848 mg and thiourea 210 mg were refluxed in acetonitrile 8 ml under a nitrogen atmosphere for 18 hours. Solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue was dissolved in water passage of the solution through a 50 ml column of Dowex K ion exchange resin, followed by removal of water in vacuo from the eluate gave the potassium salt as an oil. The oily residue was applied to a 70 ml column ofHP 20 resin in water. Elution with water, removal of the water in vacuo, and trituration with acetone yielded 380 mg of the title compound as a solid. C 35 cis 3 Amino 4 methyl 2 oxo l azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester, trifluoroacetate salt A suspension of 3S cis I4 methyl 2 oxo 3 1,1 dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester, potassium salt 350 mg in anisole 3 ml was cooled to 240C in an ice methanol bath, and trifluoroacetic acid 6 ml was added. The mixture was stirred for 1.5 hours at 24 C, diluted with dry toluene 10 ml and the solvents were removed in vacuo, at or below 190C. The residual oil was solidified and triturated several times with ether giving 352 mg of the title compound. D 3S 3 alpha Z ,4 alpha 2 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 4 methyl 2 oxo 1 hydroxymethoxyphosphinyl 3 azetidinyl amino3 2 oxoethylidene aminoloxy 2 methylpropanoic acid, benzhydryl ester, potassium salt An active ester was formed by stirring z 2 amino v I12 diphenylmethoxy 1,1 dimethyl 2 oxoethoxy imino 4 thiazoleacetic acid 331 mg ,N hydroxybenzotriazole hydrate 110 mg and dicyclohexylcarbodiimide 148 mg in 4 ml of dimethylformamide for 1.5 hours at room temperature. 3S cis 3 Amino 4 methyl 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester, trifluoroacetate salt in dimethylformamide 5 ml , pH adjusted with triethylamine to 6.5, was added to the mixture and stirred at room temperature overnight.Solvent was removed in vacuo, the residue was taken up in water, the pH was adjusted to 6.5 with dilute potassium bicarbonate, and the mixture was filtered to remove dicyclohexylurea. The solution was applied to a column of 75 ml ofDowex 50X2 400 e ion exchange resin eluting with water giving 148 mg of impure potassium salt. The potassium salt was applied to a 100 ml column of HP 20 resin in water. A gradient of water 500 ml and acetone water 1 1, 500 ml was used to elute the column yielding 72 mg of the title compound as a solid. E 3S 3 alpha Z ,4 alpha 2 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 4 methyl 2 oxo 1 hydroxymethoxyphosphinyl 3azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidine amino oxy 2methylpropanoic acid, dipotassium salt 3S 3 alpha Z ,4 alpha 2 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 I 4 methyl 2 oxo l hydroxymethoxyphosphinyl 3 azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2methylpropanoic acid, benzhydryl ester 58 mg was suspended in anisole 2 ml , cooled in an ice methanol bath at 24 0C, and trifluoroacetic acid 4 ml was added. The mixture was stirred at 240C, for 2.5 hours, then diluted with dry benzene .10 ml solvent was removed in vacuo at, or below, 190C.The residual oil was dissolved in water 4 ml and the pH was adjusted to 6.8 with dilute potassium bicarbonate solution. The solution was applied to a 30 ml column of HP 20 resin in water and eluted with water. Lyophilization yielded 26 mg of the title compound as a solid. Example 45 3S 3 alpha Z ,4 alpha 3 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl methoxy imino acetyl amino 2 methyl 4 oxo 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester, potassium salt A solution of l hydroxybenzotriazole 92 mg and Z 2 amino alpha methoxyimino 4 thiazolecacetic acid 121 mg in 2.5 ml of dry dimethylformamide was cooled to 0 C in an ice bath and treated with dicyclohexylcarbodiimide 124 mg . This mixture was stirred at 0 C for 30 minutes.At this time an amount of 3S cis 3 amino 4 methyl 2 oxo l azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester, trifluoroacetate salt 276 mg see example 44C was treated with 1 equivalent of triethylamine 61 mg in 2.5 ml of dimethylformamide and was added to the reaction mixture, maintaining the pH of the mixture between pH 6.5 and 7 by adding triethylamine as required. The reaction was stirred at 0 C for 30 minutes, and then at ambient temperature for 18 hours. The dimethylformamide was removed in vacuo at 30 C, and the residue was dissolved in 5 ml of water and the insoluble dicyclohexylurea filtered off. The solution was applied to a column of 40 ml of Dowex 50X2 400 K and eluting with water yielded 210 mg of impure potassium salt. A 200 mg portion of this material was applied to a 40 ml column of HP 20 resin in water.Elution with water and lyophiliaation yielded 118 mg of the title compound as a solid.Anal. Calc d.for C11H15N5SPO6K O.75H2O C, 30.78 H, 3.88 N, 16.32 P, 7.2 Found C, 30.78 H, 3.85 N, 16.12 P,7.3 Example 46 3S Z P 3 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl methoxyimino acetyl amino 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl N propylphosphonamidic acid, potassium salt A S P 13 1 Phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl N propylphosphonamidic acid, methyl ester S 3 Phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 2azetidinone 5.0 g was dissolved in dry tetrahydrofuran 140 ml and cooled to 78 C in a dry ice acetone bath under a nitrogen atmosphere.This mixture was treated with 1 equivalent of a 1.56 M solution of n butyl lithium in hexane 14.2 ml and was stirred for 30 minutes at 78 C. Methyl dichlorophosphate 3.38 g was added and the mixture stirred for 1 hour at 78 C, followed by the addition of 2 equivalents of distilled n propylamine 2.68 g and stirring for an additional 2 hours at 780C. The reaction was treated with 0.5 M phosphate buffer pH 5.5 150 ml , allowed to warm to 5 C, and extracted with three 125 ml portions of ethyl acetate.The extracts were combined, dried over anhydrousNa2SO4 and the solvent removed in vacuo yielding an oily residue. The residue was dissolved in acetonitrile 60 ml and applied to 500 g column of silica gel eluting with acetonitrile. Removal of solvent in vacuo yielded 4.6 g of the title compound, melting point 121 123 C. B S P 3 Phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 2 oxo l azetidinyl N propylphonoamidic acid, anilinium salt S P 3 Phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 2oxo l azetidinyll N propylphosphonamidic acid, methyl ester, potassium salt 3.0 g was dissolved in distilled dichloromethane 30 ml and cooled to 0 50C in an ice bath under a nitrogen atmosphere.Bis trimethylsilyl acetamide 6.88 g was added and the mixture stirred at 0 C for 0.5 hour.Trimethylsilylbromide 3.9 g was added and the mixture stirred for 3 hours at 0 to 50C. The solvent and excess bis trimethylsilyl acetamide and trimethylsilylbromide were removed in vacuo. The oil was taken up in three 20 ml portions of dry toluene and the toluene was removed in vacuo yielding a pale residue. The residue was dissolved in dry tetrahydrofuran 50 ml and 2 equivalents of distilled aniline 1.57 g in absolute ethanol 15 ml was added the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 0.5 hour. The solvents were removed in vacuo yielding an oily residue which was dissolved in acetonitrile 100 ml by heating to 8OOC. The hot acetonitrile solution was filtered and stored in the freezer overnight 100C . The title compound crystallized yielding 2.65 g of material, melting point 186 1900C, dec. C 5 P 3 Amino 2 oxo l azetidinyl N propyl phosphonamidic acid A solution of S P I3 tI phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl N propylphonoamidic acid, anilinium salt 2.5 g in methanol 15 ml was added to a pre hydrogenated suspension of 10 palladium on charcoal 1.25 g in methanol 50 ml . The mixture was vigorously stirred under a hydrogen atmosphere for 0.5 hour, the atmosphere was exchanged for fresh hydrogen, and stirring was continued for 1 hour. The catalyst was removed by filtering the mixture through Celite on a Millipore filter and the solvent was removed in vacuo yielding 0.78 g of the title compound as a solid.D 3S Z P 3 J 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl methoxy imino acetyl amino 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl N propylphosphonamidic acid, potassium salt A mixed anhydride was formed by stirring Z 2 amino alpha methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetic acid 53 mg and triethylamine 26.8 mg in dry dimethylformamide 2 ml under a nitrogen atmosphere. The mixture was cooled to 00C in an ice bath and diphenyl chlorophosphate 77.7 mg was added and stirring continued for 1 hour at 0 C. S P 3 Amino 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl Nproplyphosphonamidic acid 50 mg in dimethylformamide 2 ml was treated with triethylamine 24.4 mg , cooled to 0 C and stirred under nitrogen.The mixed anhydride was added and the mixture stirred for 6 hours at 0 0C and then overnight at room temperature. The dimethylformamide was removed in vacuo, yielding an oily residue. The residue was dissolved in water 2 ml and applied to a 10 ml column ofDowex 50X2 400 K ion exchange resin. Elution with water yielded 122 mg of impure potassium salt. The potassium salt was dissolved in water 2 ml and applied to a 15 ml column ofHP 20 resin in water. Elution with water and removal of water in tacuo yielded a glass like residue which was triturated with acetone yielding 24 mg of the title compound as a solid, melting point 185 C, dec.Anal. Calc d. for C12H18N6SPO5K.0.75H2O C, 32.64 H, 4.44 N, 19.04 Found C, 32.64 H, 4.63 N, 19.01 Example 47 3S 3 alpha Z ,4ss 2 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 1 2,2 dimethyl 1 oxopropoxy methoxy methoxyphosphinyl 2 methyl 4 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acidA 3S trans 4 Methyl 2 oxo 3 1,1 dimethyl ethoxylcarbonyl amino l azetidinyl phosphonic acid, ethyl ester, potassium salt A solution of 3S trans 3 11 1 ,l dimethyl ethoxy carbonyl amino 4 methyl 2 azetidinone 2.0 g in 60 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran at 780C was treated with 6.40 ml 11 mmol of 1.72 N n butyl lithium. After 30 minutes, the reaction mixture was added to ethyl dichlorophosphate 1.31 ml, 11 mmol in 30 ml of tetrahydrofuran at 78 C and stirred for 1 hour.The resulting mixture was then poured into a rapidly stirring suspension of 100 ml of 0.36 N pH6 phosphate and 100 ml of dioxane at OOC. The reaction mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 30 minutes and then placed at 50C overnight.Evaporation of the volatiles followed by chromatography on HP 20 eluting with water, 10 acetone water, 20 acetone water, and 40 acetonewater yielded 1.61 g of the title compound.B 3S0 trans 4 Methyl 2 oxo 3 1,1 dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, ethyl ester, tetrabutylammonium salt To 1.61 g of 3S trans 4 methyl 2 oxo 3 l,l dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino3 1 azetidinyla phosphonic acid, ethyl ester, potassium salt was added 100 ml of aqueous tetrabutylammonium hydrogen sulfate 3.40 g previously adjusted to pH 6.3 with potassium bicarbonate. The aqueous solution was then extracted with eight 50 ml portions of methylene chloride. The combined organic extracts were dried with sodium sulfate, and the volatiles were evaporated to yield a viscous oil. Trituration with petroleum ether and ether provided the title compound as a waxy solid 1.85 g . The tetrabutylammonium salt was further purified by column chromatography on HP 20 eluting with water, 10 acetone water, 20 acetone water, 40 acetone water to yield 1.21 g of the title compound.C 3S trans 4 Methyl 2 oxo 3 1,1 dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester, tetrabutylammonium salt To 3S trans I4 methyl 2 oxo 3 I l,l dimethylethoxy carbonylZaminol l azetidinyl3phosphonic acid, methyl ester, potassium salt 2.055 g see example 37C was added 25 ml of aqueous tetrabutylammonium hydrogen sulfate 2.32 g previously adjusted to pH 6.3 with potassium bicarbonate. The aqueous solution was then extracted with nine 25 ml portions of dichloromethane. The combined organic extracts were then dried with sodium sulfate, and the volatiles were evaporated to yield a viscous oil. Trituration with petroleum ether and ether provided the title compound as a waxy solid 2.95 g .D 3S trans 4 Methyl 2 oxo 3 1,1 dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester, 2,2 dimethyl l oxopropoxy methyl ester A A solution of 3S trans t4 methyl 2 oxo 3 1,1 dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, ethyl ester, tetrabutylammonium salt 1.12 g and pivaloyloxymethyl chloride 0.59 ml in l,l,l trichloroethane 21 ml was reflexed overnight. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and dimethyl sulfate 0.297 ml was added. The reaction was stirred at room temperature for 2 days. In the same fashion, a solution of 3S trans 4 methyl 2 oxo 3 1,1 dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester, tetrabutylammonium salt 3.22 g was sequentially subjected to pivaloyloxymethyl chloride 1.8 ml and dimethyl sulfate 0.88 ml in l,l,l trichloroethane 60 ml . The crude reaction mixtures were then combined and extracted once with 90 ml of pH 6 phosphate buffer. The aqueous layer was then extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were washed with brine and dried over sodium sulfate. Evaporation of the solvents followed by silica gel column chromatography eluting with 45 ethyl acetate hexane followed by 100 ethyl acetate gave 2.60 g of the title compound. E 3S 3 alpha Z ,4ss 2 1 2 AMino 4 thiazolyl 2 1 2,2 dimethyl 1 oxopropoxy methoxy methoxyphosphinyl 2 methyl 4 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2thylpropzic acid, benzhydryl ester Diisopropylethylamine 0.115 ml was added to Z 2 amino alpha 2 diphenylmethoxy 1,1 dimethyl 2 oxoethoxy imino 4 thiazoleacetic acid 264 mg in 2 ml of acetonitrile at room temperature.The mixture was cooled to 200C, diphenyl chlorophosphate 0.124 ml was added, and the resulting mixture was stirred for 30 minutes to give a mixed anhydride. 3S trans 4 Methyl 2 oxo 3 1,1 dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 1 acetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester, 2,2 dimethyl l oxopropoxy methyl ester 245 mg was dissolved in 0.3 ml of anisole and cooled to 0 C. Trifluoroacetic acid 3 ml was added, and the resulting mixture was stitted at 0 C for 1 hour. The volatiles were evaporated, and the residue was triturated with petroleum ether and ether to yield the trifluoroacetic acid salt of 3S trans 3amino 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester, pivaloyloxymethyl ester as a viscous oil.After evacuation for 2 hours, acetonitrile 2 ml was added, and upon cooling to OOC, 0.3 ml of diisopropylethylamine was added. The reaction mixture containing the mixed anhydride was then immediately added to the azetidinone. After stirring at 5 C for 2 hours, the reaction mixture was poured into aqueous potassium biphosphate and extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were extracted once with aqueous sodium bicarbonate and once with water.Upon drying with sodium sulfate, the volatiles were removed to yield the title compound as a crude, viscous oil. F 3S 3 alpha Z ,4ss 2 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 1 2,2 dimethyl 1 oxopropoxy methoxy methoxyphosphinyl 2 methyl 4 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid 3S trans 4 Methyl 2 oxo 3 1,1 dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino2 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester, 2,2 dimethyl l oxopropoxy methyl ester was dissolved in 1.5 ml of anisole and cooed to OOC. Trifluoroacetic acid 3 ml was added, and the resulting mixture was stirred at 0 0C for 90 minutes. The volatiles were evaporated, toluene was added, and the volatiles were removed again. The residue was dissolved in water acetone and the pH was adjusted to 6.5 using concentrated potassium bicarbonate.Column chromatography on HP 20 eluting with water, 10 acetone water, 20 acetone water, and 40 acetone water yielded, upon lyophilization, 192 mg of the potassium salt of the title compound. The potassium salt was acidified to pH 2.5 with dilute hydrochloric acid. .Column chromatography on HP 20 eluting with water, 10 acetone water, 20 acetone water, 40 acetone water, and 80t acetone water yielded, upon lyophilization 105 mg of the title compound, melting point 1400C, dec. Example 48 3S 3 alpha Z ,4ss 2 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 1 2,2 dimethyl 1 oxopropoxy methoxy methoxy phosphinyl3 2 methyl 4 oxo 3 azetidinyl 1 amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid, potassium salt Diisopropylethylamine 0.199 ml was added to Z 2 amino alpha 2 diphenylmethoxy 1,1 dimethyl 2 oxoethoxy imino 4 thiazoleacetic acid 519 mg in 3.5 ml of dimethylformamide at room temperautre. The mixture was cooled to 20 C, diphenyl chlorophosphate 0.217 ml was added, and the resulting mixture was stirred for 30 minutes to yield a mixed anhydride. S 3 Benzyloxy carbonyl amino 2 oxo1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, 2,2 dimethyl 1oxopropoxy methyl ester 443 mg see example 50C was dissolved in 5.2 ml of dimethylformamide.The benzyloxycarbonyl protecting group was remove by catalytic hydrogenolysis over Pd C 22 mg . The reaction mixture was placed under nitrogen and cooled to 0 C. Diisopropylethylamine 0.86 ml was then added to the azetidinone followed by the mixed anhydride. After stirring at 5 C overnight, the reaction mixture was poured into aqueous potassium phosphate buffer pH ca 5 . The aqueous layer was extracted four times with ethyl acetate and the Pd C catalyst was removed by filtration. The combined ethyl acetate layers were extracted with water, with sodium bicarbonate, and again with water. The ethyl acetate layer was dried with sodium sulfate and the volatiles were removed to yield the crude diphenylmethyl ester of the title compound. The crude diphenylmethyl ester was dissolved in 1.5 ml of anisole and cooled to OOC. Trifluoroacetic acid 3 ml was added, and the resulting mixture was stirred at OOC for one hour. The volatiles were evaporated, toluene was added, and the volatiles were removed again. The residue was triturated with petroleum ether and ether and evacuated. The residue was then dissolved in water acetone and the pH was adjusted to 6.5 using aqueous potassium bicarbonate.Column chromatography on HP 20 resin eluting with water, 10 acetone water, 20 acetone water, 30 acetone water, and 40 acetone water yielded upon lyophilization, 67 mg of the title compound. Example 49 3S 3 alpha Z ,4ss 2 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 1 carboxymethoxy hydroxyphosphinyl 4 methyl2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acidA 3S trans 3 1,1 Dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 4 methyl 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, 1,1 dimethylethoxy carbonyl methyl ester, potassium salt A solution of 3S trans t4 methyl 2 oxo 3 1I l,l dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester, tetrabutylammonium salt 1.41 g see example 47C and t butylbromoacetate 0.850 ml in l,l,l trichloroethane 24 ml was refluxed overnight.The volatiles were evaporated, and the residue was subjected to a Dowex 50X2 400 K form column eluting with water followed by an HP 20 column eluting with water, 10 acetone water, 20 acetone water, and 40 acetonewater to yield 713 mg of the title compound. B 3S 3 alpha Z ,4ss 2 2 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 rl carboxymethoxy hydroxyphosPhinyl 4 methyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanic acid, diphenylmethyl ester, dipotassium salt Diisopropylethylamine 0.134 ml 0.7 mmol was added to Z 2 amino alpha 2 diphenylmethoxy 1,1 dimethyl 2 oxoethoxyZimino 4 thiazoleacetic acid 308 mg in 2 ml of acetonitrile at room temperature. The mixture was cooled to 200C, diphenyl chlorophosphate 0.145 ml was added, and the resulting mixture was stirred for 30 minutes to give a mixed anhydride. 3S trans 3 1,1 Dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 4 methyl 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, 1,1 dimethylethoxy carbonyl methyl ester, potassium salt 260 mg 0.6 mmol was dissolved in 0.3 ml of anisole and cooled to 0 C. Trifluoroacetic acid 3 ml was added, and the resulting mixture was stirred at 0 C for 105 minutes. The volatiles were evaporated, and the residue was triturated with petroleum ether and anhydrous ether to yield the trifluoroacetic acid salt of 3S trans 3 amino 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, carboxymethyl ester. After evacuation for 1 hour, the residue was dissolved in 2 ml of water and cooled to OOC. The pH was adjusted to 6.95 with solid potassium bicarbonate, the mixed anhydride was added, and the reaction mixture was stirred at 5 C overnight. The volatiles were removed under vacuum.The residue was purified by column chromatography with water on Dowex 50X2 400 resin K form followed by chromatography on HP 20 eluting with water, 108 acetone water, 20 acetone water, and 40 acetone water to give the title compound. C 3S 3 alpha Z ,4ss 2 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 1 carboxymethoxy hydroxyphospinyl 4methyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid 3S 3 alpha Z ,4ss 2 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 1 carboxymethoxy hydroxyphosphinyl 4 methyl2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanic acid, diphenylmethyl ester, dipotassium salt was dissolved in 1.5 ml of anisole and cooled to 0 C. Trifluoroacetic acid 3 ml was added, and the resulting mixture was stirred at 0 C for 2 hours. The volatiles were evaporated, and the residue was triturated with petroleum ether and anhydrous ether to yield a white solid.The solid was dissolved in 2 ml of water and the pH was adjusted to 2.55 with concentrated potassium bicarbonate. This solution was then chromatographed on HP 20 resin eluting with water, 10 acetone water, 30 acetone water, and 40 acetone water to yield 100 mg of the title compound. Example 50 3S Z 3 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl methoxyimino acetyl amino 2 oxo l azetidinyl phosphonic acid, 2,2 dimethyl 1 oxopropoxy methyl ester, methyl esterA S 3 Benzyloxy carbonyl amino 2 oxo 1azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester, potassium salt A solution of S 3 II benzyloxy carbonyl amino 2 azetidinone 2.081 g in 60 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran at 780C was treated with 6.25 ml of 1.76 N n butyl lithium. After 30 minutes, the reaction mixture was added to methyl dichlorophosphate 1.101 ml in 30 ml of tetrahydrofuran at 780C and stirred for 1 hour. The resulting mixture was then poured into a rapidly stirring suspension of 100 ml of pH 6 phosphate and 100 ml of dioxane at 0 C.The reaction mixture was stirred at ambient temperautre for 1 hour and then placed at 5 C overnight. Evaporation of the volatiles followed by chromatography on HP 20 resin eluting with water, 10 acetone water, 20 acetone water, 30 acetone water, and 40 acetone water yielded 1.64 g of the title compound. B S 3 Benzyloxy carbonyl amino 2 oxo 1azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester, tetra butylammonium salt Column chromatography of S 3 II benzyloxy carbonyl amino 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, methyl ester, potassium salt with water on Dowex 50X2 400 resin tetrabutylammonium form followed by lyophilization yielded 1.89 g of the title compound.C S 3 Benzyloxy carbonyl amino 2 oxo 1azetidinyl phosphonic acid, 2,2, dimethyl 1oxopropoxy methyl ester, potassium salt S 13 f I Benzyloxy carbonyl amino 2 oxo l azetidinyl phosphonic acid, 2 , 2 dimethyl l oxopropoxy methyl ester 1.89 g was dissolved in 68 ml of 1,1, l trichloroethane. Chloromethyl pivalate 5.39 ml was added and the resulting mixture refluxed overnight. The volatiles were removed under vacuum. Ion exchange of the residue by chromatography with water on Dowex 50X2 400 resin Ke form followed by purification on HP 20 eluting with water, 10 acetone water, 20 acetone water, and 40 acetone water yielded 1.36 g of the title compound. D S 3 Benzyloxy carbonyl amino 2 oxo 1azetidinyl phosphonic acid, 2,2 dimethyl 1oxopropoxy methyl ester, methyl ester Column chromatography of S 3 benzyloxy carbonyl amino 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, 2, 2 dimethyl l oxopropoxy methyl ester, potassium salt with 30 acetone water on Amberlite IR 116 H form yielded its conjugate acid, which was dissolved in 50 ml of tetrahydrofuran and cooled to 00 . Diazomethane was added dropwise to the solution until a light yellow color persisted. The volatiles were removed, and the residue was purified by column chromatography with 50 ethyl acetate hexane on silica gel to yield the title compound as a mixture of diastereomers 1.04 g . E 3S Z 3 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl methoxy imino acetyl amino 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, 2,2 dimethyl 1 oxopropoxy methyl ester Diisopropylethylamine 0.115 ml was added to 121 mg 0.6 mmole of Z 2 amino 3 methoxy imino 4 thiazoleacetic acid in 2 ml of dimethylformamide at 23dC. The mixture was cooled to 200C and diphenyl chlorophosphate 0.125 ml was added, and the resulting mixture was stirred for 30 minutes to yield a mixed anhydride. S 13 II Benzyloxy carbonyl amino 2 oxo 1 azetidinyl phosphonic acid, 2,2 dimethyl 1oxopropoxy methyl ester, methyl ester 256 mg was dissolved in 3 ml of dimethylformamide. The benzyloxycarbonyl protecting group was removed by catalytic hydrogenolysis over Pd C 128 mg . The reaction mixture was placed under nitrogen and cooled to 00C. Diisopropylethylamine 0.5 ml was then added to the azetidinone followed by the mixed anhydride. After stirring at 5 C overnight, the reaction mixture was poured into pH 6 phosphate buffer. The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined ethyl acetate layers were filtered, then washed once with water, once with sodium bicarbonate, and once again with water.The ethyl acetate layer was then dried with Na2SO4 and solvent was removed in vacuo. Purification of the product by column chromatography on silica gel eluting with 5 methanol ethyl acetate yielded 78 mg of the title compound, melting point 1000C.