# A friction clutch pressure plate.

## Abstract
The friction clutch annular pressure plate has a friction surface 12 for engagement with a friction disc 3 and a back face 13 for engagement with a clutch spring 14. The back face 13 carries an array of knobs 17 which project therefrom and which effectively increase the surface area of the back face. In use, air passes over the knobs to cool the pressure plate.

## Claims
6. A friction clutch annular pressure plate according to claim 5 characterised in that the passages defined by cut outs 15 are inclined to the radial direction. 7. A friction clutch annular pressure plate according to any preceding characteri sed claim in that each knob 17 is substantially semi elliptial in cross section with its major axis M perpendicular to the inner margin 13 of the back face 13 .

## Description
A FRICTION CLUTCH PRESSURE PLATE This invention relates to a friction clutch pressure plate particularly, but not exclusively, for use in a motor vehicle friction clutch. Friction clutches on motor vehicles generally include a friction disc which drives the transmission and which is clamped between the flywheel of an internal combustion engine and a clutch pressure plate. A problem associated with friction clutches is that during clutch take up when the vehicle is moving off from a standing start, particularly at periods of high engine torque demand e.g. a hill start, or when the vehicle is towing a caravan, the friction clutch is allowed to slip during clutch engagement. This relative rubbing movement between the friction disc and friction surfaces on the vehicle flywheel and pressure plate cause a large amount of heat to be generated. It is undesirable to allow the friction material of the friction disc to become too hot. This is because the friction material generally comprises asbestos fibre bound by a phenolic resin and temperatures in excess of 3000C can cause a rapid breakdown of the organic binder. The present invention provides a pressure plate for the rapid dissipation of heat. Accordingly there is provided a friction clutch annular pressure plate having a friction surface for engagement with a friction disc, and a back face for engagement with a clutch spring characterised in that there is an array of knobs projecting from the back face. The provision of an array of knobs on the back face of the pressure plate effectively increases the surface area of the back face so that air drawn into a bell housing of the clutch can pass over the knobs and cool the pressure plate. The knobs may be arranged in grasps which effectively form vanes.In such a case each group may comprise a number of radially aligned knobs. An example of the invention will now be described with reference to the accompanying drawings in which Fig. 1 is a plan view of an automobile friction clutch pressure plate, Fig. 2 is a cross section through the pressure plate of Fig. 1 on the line2 3l ofFig. 1, and Fig. 3 is a cross section through one of the knobs on the pressure plate. An annular cast iron pressure plate 11, has a friction surface 12 for engagement with africtiondisc in the form of a clutch driven plate 3 see broken lines in Fig. 2 and a back face 13 including an annular boss 14 for