# Rotary transmission.

## Abstract
The rotary transmission is of the dual clutch kind and includes three gear trains A, B and C through which the clutches 12, 13 providing alternative drive paths between a common input shaft 11 and a common output shaft 14 . One clutch 12 drives the output shaft either through a two wheel gear train A or through a three wheel train of which the first wheel 16 is a gear wheel driven directly from the input shaft, the second wheel 19 is a gear wheel interengaged with the first wheel and journalled on the output shaft and the third wheel is a sleeve wheel 25 journalled on and engageable with the output shaft so that the second wheel cannot drive the output shaft except through the sleeve wheel. The other clutch 13 is arranged to drive the output shaft either through a two wheel gear train C of which the second gear wheel 20 is provided by the sleeve wheel 25 or through a six wheel gear train of which all the gear wheels 22, 20, 19, 16, 15 and 17 are members of the first, second and third mentioned trains A, B and C .

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A rotary transmission having first, second and third gear trains A, B and C each being one of a set providing a series of increasing speed ratios and two clutches 12, 13 independently operable and providing alternative drive paths through the first, second and third gear trains between a common input shaft 11 arid a common output shaft 14 , the gear trains of alternative ratios in being driven respectively through one and the other clutch, characterised in that one clutch 12 is arranged to drive the output shaft 14 either through a two wheel gear train A or though a three wheel train of which the first wheel 16 s e gcar wheel driven directly from the input shaft, the second wheel 19 is a gear wheel interengaged with the first wheel and journelled on the output shaft and the third wheel is a sleeve wheel 25 journalled on and engageable with the output shaft so that the second wheel drives the output shaft through the sleeve wheel, and other clutch 13 is arranged to drive the output shaft either through a two wheel gear train C of which the second gear wheel 20 is provided t y tile sleever wheel 25 or through a six wheel gear train of which all the gear v wheels 22, 20, 19, 16, 15 and 17 are members of the first, second and ttiird mentioned tralns A, b and C . 2. A rotary transmission according to claim 1, characterised in that the claims 12,13 are according at each one of the set of the claims. 3. A rotary transmission according to claim 2, characterised in that driving gears 15, 16 and 22 of said first, second and third mentioned trains A, B and C are journalled on a common driving shaft 11 for said clutches. 4. A rotary transmission according to claim 3, characterised in that the two wheel gear train and three wheel train driven through said one clutch 12 have respective driving gear wheels 15, 16 fast for rotation in common. 5. A rotary transmission according to any preceding claim characterised in that the two wheel gear train A which is driven through the said one clutch 12 includes a driven gear 17 journal led on the output shaft 14 , selector means 18 being provided for drivably connecting the driven gear 17 to the output shaft. 6. A rotary transmission according to claim 5 characterised in that the said second wheel 19 of the said three wheel train is journal led cn the output shaft i4between the sleeve wheel 25 and the selector means 18 for drivably connecting the driven gear 17 to the output shaft 14 . 7. A rotary transmission according to any preceding claim characterised in that the sleeve wheel 25 is arranged between the second wheel 19 of the said three wheel train and selector means 23 for drivably connecting the sleeve wheel 5 to the output shaft 14 . A A rotary transmission having first, second and third gear trains A, B and C each being one of a set providing a series of increasing speed ratios and two clutches 12,13 independently operable and providing alternative drive paths through the first, second and third gear trains between a common input shaft 11 and a common output shaft 14 , the gear trains of alternative ratios in the set being driven respectively through one and the other clutch, characterised in that one clutch 12 is arranged to drive the output shaft 14 through a first two wheel gear train A or through a second two wheel train B , and the other clutch 13 is arranged to drive the output shaft either through a two wheel gear train C of which the second gear wheel 20 is provided by a sleeve wheel journal led on the output shaft and engageable either with the output shaft or with the second gear wheel of gear train B , or through a six wheel gear train of which all the gear wheels 22, 20, 19, 16, 15 and 1 7 are members of the first, second and third mentioned trains A, B, and C .

## Description
RATARY TRANSMISSION This invention relates to rotary transmissions of the dual clutch kind by which is meant a transmission having gear trains each being one of a set providing a series of increasing speed ratios, and two clutches independently operable and providing alternative drive paths through the gear trains between a common input and a common output, the gear trains of alternate speed ratios in the set being driven respectively through one and the other clutch. The invention is particularly though not exclusively applicable to drive transmissions for motor vehicles. Examples of transmissions of the dual clutch kind are shown in British Patent Specification Nos. 145,827 Bramley Moore , 585,715 Kegresse , and 795,260 David Brown . To the best of our knowledge, none of these prior proposals has been commercially adopted. Current motor vehicle design trends indicate that an increasing proportion of vehicle production will be front wheel drive. In order to reduce overall vehicle length and provide increased passenger accommodation many such front wheel drive vehicles have a transverse engine installation. Small transverse engined vehicles have little space between the front wheel suspension and steering mechanisms to site the power unit. It has been proposed to place the transmission beneath the engine but this leads to a reduced ground clearance and to a high bonnet line with consequent reduced driver visibility. Although small transverse engined vheicles having transmissions placed abngside the engine are known it is uncommon to find such vehicles fitted with a fully automatic transmission since these transmissions are inherently more bulky than an equivalent manual transmission. The present invention seeks to provide an improved transmission of the dual clutch kind, of compact size and suitable for fully automatic operation . According to the invention there is provided a rotary transmission having first, second and third gear trains each being one of a set providing a series of increasing speed ratios and two clutches independently operable and providing alternative dirve paths through the gear trains between a common input shaft and a common output shaft, the gear trains of alternative ratios in the set being driven respectively through one and the other clutch, one clutch being arranged to drive the output shaft either through a two wheel gear train or through a three wheel train of which the first wheel is a gear wheel driven directly from the input shaft, the second wheel is a gear wheel interengaged with the first wheel and journal led on the output shaft and the third wheel is a sleeve wheel journal led on and engageable with the output shaft so that the second wheel cannot drive the output shaft except through a sleeve wheel, and the other clutch being arranged to drive the output shaft either through a two wheel gear train of which the second gear wheel is provided by the sleeve wheel or through a six wheel gear train of which all the gear wheels are members of the first, second and third mentioned trains. Such a rotary transmission has the additional advantage that it provides four speed ratios from only three gear wheel pairs between an input shaft and an output shaft whereas a conventional single clutch transmission requires four gear wheel pairs. The cost of a transmission according to the invention can thus show substantial savings, gear wheels being relatively expensive components to manufacture. Preferably the clutches are arranged one at each side of the set of gear trains. Such positioning of the clutches leads to a particularly compact arrangement and the driving gears of said first, second and third mentioned trains can be conveniently journal led on a common driving shaft for the clutches. The two wheel gear train and three wheel train driven through said one clutch may have respective driving gears fast for rotation in common. The two wheel gear train which is driven through the said one clutch preferably includes a driven gear which is journal led on the output shaft, selector means being provided for drivably connecting the driven gear to the output shaft. The second wheel of the said three wheel gear train may be journal led on the output shaft between the sleeve wheel and the selector means for drivably connecting the aforesaid driven gear to the output shaft. Preferably, the second gear wheel of the two wheel gear train which is driven through said other clutch is arranged between selector means for drivably connecting the sleeve wheel to the second wheel of the three wheel gear train and a further selector means for drivably connecting the second gear wheel of the said two wheel gear train to the output shaft. A rotary transmission in accordance with the invention will now be described by way of example with reference to the accornpanying drawing which is a schematic illustration of a four speed constant mesh transmission for a front engine front wheel drive vehicle. With reference to the drawings, there is shown an input shaft 11 from an engine not shown and connectable through clutches 12, 13 and sets of two wheel gear trains A, B and C to drive an output shaft 14. The output shaft is for connection to the vehicle driving wheels through, for example, a differential gear. One clutch 12 has driving gear wheels 15, 16 of gear trains A andB fast for rotation with its driven member 12A. A driven gear wheel 17 of train A is jouinalled on the layshaft 14 and is connectable thereto by a synchroniser assembly 18. Such a synchroniser assembly is well known in the rotary transmission art and will not be further described here. A driven gear wheel 19 of train B is journal led on the layshaft 14 for conneciion thereto through a driven sleeve wheel 25 of train C as will be subsequently described. Gear train C has a driving gear wheel 22 fast with the driven member of the other clutch 13 which makes with a driven gear 20 on the sleeve wheel. The sleeve wheel is journal led on the output shaft for connection thereto by a synchroniser assembly 23. Another synchroniser assembly 24 is mounted on the sleeve wheel 25 to connect that wheel to the driven gear wheel 19 of gear train B. It is intended that operation of the clutches 12, 13 and the sypchioniser assemblies 18, 23 and 24 will be in response to ah electro hydraulic aulomatic control system not shown . A pump not shown to provide hydraulic fluid under pressure to such an electro hydraulic control system may be conveniently din n from the input shaft 11 between the gear trains B and C. Aieverse speediathoinny te polvided in any conventional mannerIn the present errtewinenent a drive gear b from 0b the clutch 13 is connectable to a driven gear whcel 27 fcirmed as part of the synchroniser assembly 23 through a disengageable lay rar not shown . Ti,e lay gear reverses rotation of the drive from the input shaft 11 to the output shaft 14. Operation of the transmission is as follows With the vehicle engine running, both clutches 12, 13 are initially disengaged, and the synchroniser assemblies 18, 23 and 24 are also initially disengaged. To move off from rest synchroniser assemblies 18 and 24 are shifted to engage the respective gear wheels 17 and 19 and clutch 13 is engaged so that drive is transmitted through the six gear wheels 22, 20, 19, 16 15 and 17 of gear trains C, B and A to the output shaft 14. The novel arrangement of synchroniser assemblies provides for the driven gear wheels of trains B and C to be connected together for rotation in common about the output shaft 14, the driven member 12A of clutch 12 being driven idly about the input shaft 11. Second speed ratio is preselected by the idle driving of clutch driven member 12A and the ratio change is effected by simultaneously disengaging clutch 13 and engaging clutch 12. Drive is now through gear train A to the layshaft and synchroniser assembly 24 may be disengaged. Third speed ratio is preselected by the engagement of synchroniser 23 to drive clutch driven member 13A idly. At the appropriate moment clutch 12 is engaged as clutch 13 is disengaged and drive is transmjtted through gear train C to the layshaft. Synchroniser assembly 18 may be disengaged. Fourth speed ratio is preselected by engagement of synchroniser assembly 24. Engagement of clutch 13 as clutch 12 is disengaged provides drive through gear train B, sleeve wheel 25 and synchroniser assembly 23 constitute the aforesaid three wheel train. Ratio downchanges are effected in the reverse manner to the upchanoes by preselecting the next sequential speed ratio and changing drive from one clutch to the other. Additional sets of gear wheels may be provided to increase the number of speed ratios available. The embodiment described is only one of a number of alternative versions of the invention and it is not intended that the invention be limited by the particular arrangement of gear wheels and synchroniser assemblies disclosed. In one alternative embodiment, the fourth speed ratio may be connected to the output shaft through synchroniser assembly 18 instead of through the seleve wheel 25. In this case the synchroniser assembly 18 would be double sided. Such assemblies are well known in the manual change transmission art.