# Process and composition for treating phosphated metal surfaces.

## Abstract
Phosphated metal surfaces, particularly those which are iron based or zinc based, are treated, especially prior to cationic electrocoating, with an aqueous solution containing a at least 0.05 g l as ZrO₂ of water soluble fluorozirco nium compound and b at least 0.05 g l of myo inositol phosphate and or water soluble salt thereof the aqueous solution having a pH in the range 3 to 7, and the molar ratio of a to b being in the range 1 1 to 50 1.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for treating a metal surface having a phosphate conversion coating characterised by treating said coated surface with an aqueous solution containing a at least 0.05 g l as ZrO2 of water soluble fluorozirconium compound and b at least 0.05 g l of myo inositol phosphate and or water soluble salt thereof the aqueous solution having a pH in the range 3 to 7, and the molar ratio of a to b being in the range 1 1 to 50 1. 2. A process according to claim 1 characterised by employing as a at least 0.1 g l as Zero2 of water soluble fluorozirconium compound. 3. A process according to claim 1 or 2 characterised in that the myo. inositol phosphate or water soluble salt thereof is one or both of phytic acid and a salt thereof with a volatile base. 4. A process according to any one of the preceding claims characterised in that the molar ratio of a to b is from 2 1 to 40 1. 5. A process according to any one of the preceding claims characterised in that the water soluble fluorozirconium compound is one or both of fluorozirconic acid and a salt thereof with a volatile base. 6. A process according to claim 5 characterised in that the salt with a volatile base is the ammonium salt. 7. A process according to any one of the preceding claims characterised in that the pH of the aqueous solution is adjusted into said range by the addition of a volatile base thereto. 8. A process according to any one of the preceding claims characterised in that the metal surface is iron based or zinc based. 9, A process according to claim 8 characterised by treating an article which has an iron based surface and a zinc based surface. 10. A process according to any one of the preceding claims characterised in that the phosphate conversion coating is applied by dipping the metal surface into an acidic aqueous phosphating solution containing from 0.5 to 1.5 g l of zinc ion, from 5 to 30 g l of phosphate ion, and a conversion coating accelerator. 11. A process according to claim 10 characterised in that the conversion coating accelerator is at least one selected from the group consisting of 0.01 to 0.2 g l of nitrite ion, 0.05 to 2 g l of m nitrobenzene sulphonate ion, and 0.5 to 5 g l of hydrogen peroxide. 12. A process according to claim 10 or 11 characterised in that the phosphating solution also contains i 1 to 10 g l of nitrate ion and or ii 0.05 to 2 g l of chlorate ion. 13. A process according to any one of claims 1 9 characterised in that the phosphate conversion coating is applied by spraying the metal surface with an acidic aqueous phosphating solution containing 0.4 to 1 g l of zinc ion, 5 to 40 g l of phosphate ion, 2 to 5 g l of chlorate ion, and 0.01 to 0.02 g l of nitrite ion. 14. A process according to any one of claims 10, 11 and 13 characterised in that the phosphating solution also contains 0.1 to 4 g l of nickel ion. 15. A process according to any one of the preceding claims characterised in that the metal surface is subsequently cationic electrocoated. 16. A composition for treating a metal surface having a phosphate conversion coating, characterised in that the composition is an aqueous solution defined in any one of claims 1 7.

## Description
PROCESS AND COMPOSITION FOR TREATING PHOSPHATED METAL SURFACES An increasingly used commercial process for the application of siccative coatings to metal surfaces e.g. iron based or zinc based surfaces is the process of electrocoating, especially cationic electrocoating. Various pretreating processes are known, including the application of a phosphate coating to the metal surface followed by treatment of the phosphate surface with a solution which does not contain chromium, and which accordingly is pollution free, to improve the corrosion resistance of the metal surface. For example, Japanese PatentPublication No. 5622 1978 uses an aqueous solution of phytic acid to treat the phosphated surface, and Japanese Patent Publication No. 21971 1977 uses an aqueous solution of zirconium compound for this purpose. Both techniques have disadvantages.In the former technique, unless the surface of the metal which has been subjected to phosphating and is suitable for cationic electrocoating is sufficiently washed with pure water in.a final water washing process after such treatment, pitting occurs in the electrocoated film and the appearance of the film is markedly inferior.Also, zinc based metal surfaces show inferior results compared to iron based surfaces with respect to adhesion and corrosion resistance of the coating film produced by cationic electrocoating. In the latter technique, the stability of the aqueous solution of zirconium compound is unsatisfactory, and, especially in the neutral zone, there is a strong tendency for the zirconium compound to be hydrolyzed, so that it is difficult to maintain the required concentration of this compound in the solution.In order to try to enhance the stability of the zirconium solution, the technique proposes the use of complexing agents such as gluconic acid and citric acid. However, in such instances there is a tendency for corrosive substances to remain on the treated metal surface, so that excessive water washing is required in the following final water washing step. Furthermore, here too, zinc based surfaces so treated are inferior to iron based surfaces so treated in adhesion and corrosion resistance of the coating film. The present invention relates to an improved process for treating a metal surface, especially for subsequent cationic electrocoating.The process results in improved adhesion and corrosion resistance of the coating film deposited by cationic electrocoating. Accordingly, the invention provides a process for treating a metal surface having a phosphate conversion coating, which process comprises treating said coated surface with an aqueous solution containing a at least 0.05 g l as ZrO2 of water soluble fluorozirconium compound and b at least 0.05 g l of myo inositol phosphate and or water soluble salt thereof the aqueous solution having a pH in the range 3 to 7, and the molar ratio of a to b being in the range 1 1 to 50 1. The invention also provides a composition for treating a netal surface having a phosphate conversion coating, which composition is this aqueous solution. GJhen the metal surface is to be cationic electrocoated, the phosphate conversion coating is one suitable as a conversion coating for this purpose, and can be applied by an acidic aqueous phosphating solution which is already known in the art for this purpose. Such solutions include, for example, a solution containing from 0.4 to 1.5 g l of zinc ion, from 5 to 40 g l of phosphate ion, and a conversion coxing accelerator.Examples of such know phosphating solutions are given in Japanese Patent Publications unexamined No. 107784 1980, 145180 1980 and 131177 1980. Particularly effective is applying the phosphate conversion coating by dipping the metal surface into an acidic aqueous phosphating solution containing from 0.5 to 1.5 g l, preferably from 0.7 to 1.2 g l, of zinc ion, from 5 to 30 g l, preferably from 10 to 20 g l, of phosphate ion, and a conversion coating accelerator. The accelerator can be at least one of the following 0.01 to 0.2 g l, preferably 0.04 to 0.15 g l, of nitrite ion, 0.05 to 2 g l, preferably 0.1 to 1.5 g l, of m nitrobenzene sulphonate ion, and 0.5 to 5 g l, preferably ito 4 g l, of hydrogen peroxide as 1000 o H202 . The phosphating solution may optionally also contain 1 to 10 g l, preferably 2 to 8 g l, of nitrate ion, and or 0.05 to 2 g l, preferably 0.2 to 1.5 g l, of chlorate ion. In this phosphating solution, when the amount of zinc ion is less than about 0.5 g 1, an even phosphate film is not formed on an iron based surface, and a partially blue coloured film is formed. On the other hand, when the amount is greater than about 1.5 g l, then even though an even phosphate film is formed, the film tends to be a coarse, leaf like crystalline film, which is unsuitable as an undercoating for cationic electrocoating. t.en the amount of phosphate ion is below about 5 g l, the film tends to be uneven. On the other hand, when the amount exceeds about 30 g l,no further improvement in the phosphate coating is realized, and it is therefore uneconomical to use such increased quantities of phosphate.When the amount of the specified conversion coating accelerators is below about the lower limit given, the conversion coating on an iron based surface is inadequate, and yellow rust, etc.are formed readily on the surface. On the other hand, when the amount is above about the upper limit given, a blue coloured uneven film forms on an iron based surface. Recently in the automotive industry, steel components have been employed that are plated on one surface only with zinc or an alloy of zinc. When such metal components having both iron based and zinc based surfaces are employed, it is preferred that the phosphating solution discussed above also contain 06 to 3 g l, preferably 0.8 to 2 g l, of manganese ion, or 1 to 4, preferably 2 to 2.5 g l, of nickel ion.It is even more preferred to include both manganese and nickel ions, and when both are included, the manganese ion is preferably employed in the range given above and the nickel ion is employed in the range of 0.1 to 4 g l, preferably 0.3 to 2 g l. Alternatively, a spray process can be utilized to apply the phosphate coating to the metal surface. When a spray process is employed, the following solution is preferred an acidic aqueous phosphating solution containing from 0.4 to 1 g l, preferably 0.5 to 0.9 g l, of zinc ion, 5 to 40 g l, preferably 10 to 20 g l, of phosphate ion, 2 to 5 g l, preferably 2.5 to 4 g l, of chlorate ion, and 0.01 to 0.2 g l, preferably 0.04 to 0.15 g l, of nitrite ion. In the above treating solution for use in a spray process, when the amount of zinc ion is less than about 0.4 g l, an even phosphate film is not formed on an iron based surface, and a partially blue coloured film is formed On the other hand, when the amount is greater than about 1 g l, then even though an even phosphate film is formed, it tends to be a coarse leaf like crystalline film, which is unsuitable as an undercoating for cationic electrocoating.When the amount of phosphate ion is below about 5 g l, the film tends to be uneven. On the other hand, when the amount is greater than about 40 g l, no further improvement in the phosphate coating is realized, and it is therefore uneconomical to use such increased amounts of phosphate. When the amount of chlorate ion is below about 2 g l, then even though an even film is formed, the film tends to be a coarse leaf like crystalline film, which is imsuitable as an undercoating for cationic electrocoating. On the other hand, when the amount is greater than about 5 g l, an uneven blue coloured film is formed on an iron based surface. When the amount of nitrite ion is below about O.Ol g l, the conversion coating is inadequate, and an inferior film with yellow rust, etc. is formed on an iron based surface. On the other hand, when the amount is greater than about 0.2 g l, it tends to form a blue coloured uneven film on an iron based surface. As sources of the ions used in the acidic phosphating solutions discussed above, commonly known sources can be utilized, for example zinc oxide, zinc carbonate or zinc nitrate for zinc ions phosphoric acid, sodium phosphate or zinc phosphate for phosphate ions sodium nitrite or ammonium nitrite for nitrite ions sodium m nitrobenzene sulphonate for m nitrobenzene sulphonate ions hydrogen peroxide for hydrogen peroxide chloric acids sodium chlorate or ammonium chlorate for chlorate ions manganese carbonate, manganese nitrate, manganese chloride or manganese phosphate for manganese ions and nickel carbonate, nickel nitrate, nickel chloride or nickel phosphate for nickel ions. Phosphating of the metal surfaces with the acidic aqueous solutions for phosphating discussed above can be carried out in accordance with conventional procedures. For example, the metal surfaces, which have been subjected, as needed, to degreasing and then to a known surface pretreatment generally employed prior to a dipping treatment , where the dipping treatment is used for phosphating, can be treated at 40 to 70 C, preferably at 45 to 60 C, for 15 seconds or more preferably for 30 to 120 seconds , and thus a desired phosphate coating film of low film amount 1.5 to 3 g m is produced on iron based surfaces. Also, a uniform phosphate film is formed thereby on zincbased surfaces.In this dipping treatment, for application to articles of complicated configuration having many pockets etc., such as car bodies, it is advantageous to adopt the procedure disclosed in Japanese PatentPublication No. 107784 1980, of treating by dipping for 15 seconds or more preferably for 30 to 90 seconds , followed by spraying for 2 seconds or more preferably for 5 to 45 seconds .Where phosphating is carried out by a spray treatment, the phosphating solution can be sprayed onto the metal surfaces at the same temperature as is used for the dipping treatment discussed above for 40 seconds or more preferab ly for 1 to 3 minutes , to produce a desired phosphate coating film of low film amount 1 to 1.8 g m2 on iron based surfaces. Again, an even phosphate film is also formed on zinc based surfaces. After the formation of the phosphate coating film, the metal so treated may be washed with water according to conventional methods, followed by an after treatment in accordance with the present invention as described below. The after treatment involves treating the phosphated metal surface with an aqueous solution having a pil of 3 to 7, preferably 4 to 6, and containing a at least 0.05 g l, preferably at least 0.1 g l, as ZrO2 of water soluble fluorozirconium compound and b at least O.C5 g 1 of myo inositol phosphate and or water soluble salt thereof wherein the molar ratio of a to b is in the range 1 1 to 50 1, preferably 2 1 to 40 1. The preferred water soluble zirconium compound is fluorozirconic acid or a salt thereof with a volatile base such as ammonia, a lower alkylamine or a hydroxy lower alkylamine e.g. monoethanolamine, diethanolamine, triethanolamine, methylamine, ethylamine or dimethylamine . Alkali metal salts and alkaline earth metal salts of fluorozirconic acid exhibit a tendency to leave corrosive substances on the surface of the metal after the above mentioned treatment step, and they are therefore not preferred.Neither zirconium carboxylates nor zirconium hydrocarboxylates exhibit as beneficial an effect of the present invention as do fluorozirconic acid and its salts with volatile bases. then the amount of the water soluble zirconium compound is less than 0.05 g l, neither the adhesion nor the corrosionresistance of the coating film after cationic electrocoating is improved. The myo inositol phosphates and water soluble salts thereof used in the abovementioned aqueous solution are esters of myo inositol having 1 to 6 phosphate groups. Phytic acid is a commercially available product that can be employed herein. Cther useful phosphates can be obtained by hydrolysis of phytic acid. As water soluble salts of myo inositol phosphates, salts of volatile bases are preferred, such as ammonia, a lower alkylamine, or a hydroxy lower alkylamine examples of these bases being specified above . When the molar ratio of a to b is less than 1 1, a zirconium salt of myc inositol phosphate is not formed on the phosphated metal surface, and it is this salt that improves the corrosion resistance of the metal surface.On the other hand, when the ratio exceeds 50 1, the stability of zirconium ion in the solution is diminished. As stated above, the pR of the above mentioned solution is in the range 3 to 7. When phytic acid is employed in the practice of the invention, the pH of the solution is strongly affected by its concentration. For example, the pH of a 0.1, 0.01, 0.001, and 0.0001, mole l aqueous solution of phytic acid is respectively 0.9, 1.7, 2.68, and 3.61. When the pH of the present solution is lower than about 3, the phosphate film on the metal surface dissolves excessively and the benefits of the invention cannot be fully realized. On the other hand, when the pH exceeds about 7, a zirconium salt of for example phytic acid is not formed readily on the metal surface, and the beneficial effects of the invention cannot be realized. Accordingly the pH must be adjusted, as necessary, to obtain a pH within the required range As pR increasing agents, volatile bases such as ammonia, a lower alkylamine or a hydroxylower alkylamine may be employed and examples of these bases are specified above .Accordingly, a portion of the volatile base needed for pH control can be present as a salt of fluorozirconic acid and or as a salt of the myo inositol phosphate. In general, at least about 4 moles of volatile base is required per mole of myo inositol phosphate. As a pH lowering agent, phosphoric acid may be employed. The aqueous solution used to after treat a phosphated metal surface preferably contains substantially no substance which will form a corrosive residue on the metal surface. Thus, the aqueous solution preferably contains substantially no alkali metal ions, alkaline earth metal ions or any organic acid that will form a water soluble chelate compound. The treatment of the phosphated metal surface with the above mentioned solution can be effected by any conventional contacting method such as by dipping or spraying. The treating temperature is preferably in the range of from room temperature to 90 C. The treatment time is at least long enough to wet the metal surface sufficiently with the solution, and is usually in the range of from 5 seconds to 5 minutes. When contacting is by dipping, a cathodic electrolysis treatment may be utilized therefor. When the solution used to treat the phosphated metal surface contains substantially no substance which will form a corrosive residue, as is preferred, the metal surfaces so treated may be dried without first washing with water.However, when the metal surface is to be dipped into an electrocoating bath for cationic electrocoating, it is desirable first to rinse the metal surface with pure water which does not in any way diminish the beneficial effects produced by the present process . Examples of metal surfaces that can be treated by the process of the invention include zinc based surfaces such as zinc plated steel plate by hot dipping, alloyed zinc plated steely plate by hot dipping, zinc plated steel plate by electroplating or alloyed zinc plated steel plate by electroplating, and iron based surfaces. The invention is illustrated by the followingExamples. EXAMPLES Five Examples using the process of the invention referred to hereinafter as INVENTIVE EXAMPLE 1 to INVEZiTIVE EXAMPLE 5 were carried out together with nine Examples given for comparison purposes referred to hereinafter as COMPARISON EXAMPLE 1 to COMPARISON EXAMPLE 9 . The treating techniques used, which are referred to in Table 1, are given in detail below. The aqueous phosphating compositions of each Example are set forth in Table 1, together with the treating solutions used thereafter on the phosphated surfaces, referred to in Table 1 as After Treatment. The metal surfaces treated and the test results obtained at different stages of coating the metal surfaces are given in Table 2. Samples of all four metal surfaces given in Table 2 were treated simultaneously according to the following procedure degreasing washing with water surface conditioning used only where a dipping process is used for applying a conversion coating conversion coating washing with water after treatment washing with pure water drying costing.A. Conditions for applying a conversion coating by the dipping process a degreasing, using an alkaline degreasing agent Nippon Paint Co., RIDOLINE SD200 , 3 0 by weight which was sprayed on the metal surfaces at 600C for 1 minute, followed by dipping in the solution for 2 minutes 1 b the metal surfaces were then washed with tap water at room temperature for 15 seconds c the metal surfaces were next dipped into a surface conditioner Nippon Paint Co., FIXODINE 5N 5, 0.1 by weight at room temperature for 15 seconds d the metal surfaces were then dip treated with a phosphating solution given in Table 1 for dip treating at 520C for 120 seconds to apply a conversion coating thereto and e the metal surfaces were washed with tap water at room temperature for 15 seconds.B. Conditions for applying a conversion coating by the spray process a degreasing, using an alkaline degreasing agent Nippon Paint Co., 11iiIDOLIt SD200g , 2 by weight which was sprayed on the metal surfaces at 60 C for 2 minutes b the metal surfaces were then washed with tap water at room temperature for 15 seconds c the metal surfaces were then spray treated with a phosphating solution given in Table 1 for spray treating at 50 C for 120 seconds and d the metal surfaces were washed with tap water at room temperature for 15 seconds.C. Conditions for After Treatment a after step A e or B d , whichever is applicable, the metal surfaces without drying, were dip or spray treated with a Treating Solution given in Table 1 at 300C for 10 to 30 seconds b the metal surfaces were then dip treated with deionized water at room temperature for 15 seconds and c the metal surfaces were dried in hot air at 1000C for 10 minutes. The appearance and film weight of the metal surfaces were determined and the results set forth in Table 2. d a cationic electrocoating material Nippon Paint Co., Power Top U 30 Dark Gray was coated to 20 p thickness onto the treated metal surfaces voltage 180V., treatment time 3 minutes , followed by baking at 180 0C for 30 minutes One sample of each electrocoated plate so obtained was subjected to the brine spray test e a second sample of each electrocoated plate so obtained was coated with an intermediate coating material Nippon Paint Co., ORGA T0778 Gray to 30 p thickness, followed by baking at 1400C for 20 minutes, and a top coating material Nippon Paint Co., ORGA T0626 Margaret White in 40 p thickness was then applied, followed by baking as above. Accordingly, coated plates with a total of 3 coatings and 3 bakings were obtained. All the thus coated plates were subjected to the adhesion test, and the thus coated cold rolled steel plate also to the spot rusting test.The testing procedures referred to above are described below A Brine spraying test JIS Z 2871 Cross cuts were made on an electrocoated plate 5 brine was sprayed thereon for 500 hours zinc plated steel plate or 1000 hours cold rolled steel plate . B Adhesion test After dipping a coated plate in deionized water at 50 C for 10 days, grids 100 squares were made at 1 mm intervals or at 2 mm intervals using a sharp cutter an adhesive tape was attached to each surface and the number of squares of coating film that remained on the plate after the removal of the adhesive tape were counted C Spot rusting test A coated plate was set. at a 15 degree angle to the horizontal plane, and an arrow with a cone shaped head with a 90 degree vertical angle, made of alloyed steel material quality, JIS C 4404, hardness Hv 700 or higher ., weighing 1.00 g and 14.0 mm in total length was dropped repeatedly from a distance of 150 cm, until 25 scratches were made on the coated surface. Subsequently, the coated plate was subjected to 4 cycles of testing, each cycle consisting of first the brine spray test JIS Z 2871, 24 hours , second, a moisture.test temperature of 40 C, relative humidity 85 , 120 hours , and third, standing at room temperature 24 hours . After testing, the average value mm of the largest diameter of rust spots and blisters was obtained, with the results shown in Table 2. TABLE 1 EMI18.1 tb SEP After SEP Trcatment SEP Convcrsion SEP Coatng SEP Treatment tb SEP Treating SEP Phoshsting tb SEP . SEP Treating SEP Phosphating tb SEP Solution SEP I SEP Solution SEP Comparison SEP Comparison tb SEP t3 tb SEP e3 SEP r3 SEP m SEP m SEP 1 SEP Example SEP 2 SEP Z SEP SEP 7 SEP Example SEP 2 SEP SEP 3 SEP r SEP N tb SEP 2 SEP r SEP ON SEP O SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP I tb SEP Ow SEP Oh, SEP SJ. tb SEP Zn SEP g l SEP 0.8 SEP 0.6 SEP w SEP 0.6 SEP 0.6 tb SEP 70 tb SEP nr SEP 13 SEP cD tb D SEP D SEP I SEP O SEP N SEP 10.3 SEP s SEP 14.3 SEP p tb SEP 73 SEP Y SEP tb SEP 4J SEP Mn SEP g l SEP F SEP D tb SEP r SEP ci SEP cr SEP r SEP o SEP S tb SEP 3 SEP cj l SEP 0.5 SEP t j3 SEP 0.53 SEP 0 tb SEP n SEP r SEP u. SEP 2 SEP c, SEP r SEP rt SEP 2 SEP r SEP i tb SEP NO2 SEP g . SEP SEP Cr SEP 0.1 SEP s SEP F SEP Q, SEP . tb SEP n, SEP a SEP v, SEP u SEP o tb SEP O SEP F SEP 11202 SEP rr SEP Na SEP ss SEP D tb SEP Qss SEP s SEP Dw SEP 4.0 SEP 4.2 SEP 4.2 SEP 4.2 tb SEP O, SEP n SEP o SEP dh SEP h tb SEP . SEP NO3 tb o SEP Clo3 SEP g 1 SEP 0.7 SEP w SEP F SEP SEP g SEP to SEP tb SEP Ho tb SEP v SEP t14 SEP Total SEP Q SEP Q SEP point SEP 17 SEP kQ SEP 11 SEP 16 SEP 16 tb SEP n SEP O SEP SEP SEP s SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP s SEP SEP SEP tb SEP v. SEP ree SEP F SEP F SEP F SEP F SEP F SEP SEP SEP F SEP F SEP F tb SEP tt tb SEP a SEP s tb SEP C tb SEP 0 tb SEP U SEP Treatment SEP Mothod SEP dippi 09 SEP SEP o SEP W SEP SEP SEP spray SEP spray tb SEP C SEP c SEP SEP SEP r SEP b SEP 3 tb SEP SEP Ow SEP Lln SEP O SEP L1 SEP C SEP o SEP a SEP tb SEP cD SEP Acid SEP g l SEP 0.64 SEP 0.64 SEP 0.64 SEP 1.00 SEP tb SEP SEP ZrO2 SEP g l SEP 0.54 SEP 0.54 SEP 0.54 SEP 0.68 SEP 0.3 tb SEP co tb SEP GE SEP NH4 2ZrF6 Phytic SEP molar SEP SEP tb SEP Acidrato tb SEP C SEP tb SEP ro SEP Base SEP for SEP adjusting SEP p11 SEP NIl3 SEP Nil3 SEP Nil3 SEP . SEP NaOii SEP tb SEP 5.0 SEP 5.0 SEP 5.0 SEP 3.0 SEP 4.9 tb SEP U SEP pil SEP molar tb SEP F tb SEP C, SEP Base Phytic SEP Acid SEP 7.6 1 SEP 7.6 1 SEP 7.6 1 SEP 2.6 1 SEP tb SEP ratio tb SEP Treatment SEP Time SEP SEP 20 SEP ss SEP 30 SEP W SEP W SEP 30 tb SEP P SEP O SEP Q, SEP Metbod SEP zIJO tb SEP tO tb SEP S SEP w SEP SEP o3 tb SEP t SEP W SEP SEP o SEP O SEP SEP O SEP FJ SEP x SEP o SEP Fo SEP O SEP XD SEP M SEP . SEP . tb SEP A tb SEP FS SEP Ï SEP rs SEP z SEP l SEP W SEP µ SEP Ff SEP SEP FJ SEP . SEP . SEP verbar SEP O SEP O SEP SEP A SEP O SEP X SEP O tb SEP SEP l SEP t DW SEP W0 Ammonium Zirconium Glycolate used calculated as ZrO2 TABLE 1 Continued EMI19.1 tb SEP Cooiing SEP rreat.ent tb SEP After SEP Trcatment SEP SEP Conversion tb SEP Solution SEP olution SEP 1nvertive SEP Inventive tb SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP ttl SEP m SEP xamp1e SEP SEP xamp1e SEP 3 SEP nz zzxaN tb SEP O, SEP CI SEP t SEP ON SEP O SEP C SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 3 tb SEP V SEP D SEP v SEP SEP s SEP SEP m SEP 1.0 SEP 1.0 tb SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP P SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP o SEP rr tb SEP CW SEP g l SEP N SEP tt SEP SEP SEP into SEP tb SEP 0.8 tb SEP Mn SEP f i SEP tb SEP SEP F SEP r SEP V SEP G SEP , SEP F SEP rt SEP tb SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP ti SEP SEP frizz SEP S SEP C. SEP SEP X, tb SEP I, SEP 3 SEP SEP C SEP 5 SEP L7 SEP 0 SEP 5 SEP r SEP 5 tb SEP 5 SEP 11202 SEP 1 1 SEP SEP 1.0 SEP 4.0 tb C, SEP P SEP O tb SEP o SEP z SEP Y SEP t SEP 0.7 tb SEP a SEP SEP tS SEP SEP SEP . SEP rv tb SEP Total SEP o SEP SEP , SEP rf SEP V SEP .C SEP tb SEP ,t SEP 3 SEP V SEP r tb SEP ,,,,,,,, SEP f SEP . SEP I SEP SEP g0n SEP tb SEP Y SEP I tb SEP 0 tb SEP n tb SEP bii4 2Zr6 Pytic SEP tb SEP ra o SEP 4.53 1 tb SEP Baso SEP for SEP adjust in SEP X SEP NH SEP NH tb SEP a, SEP w SEP 0 SEP plI SEP 3 SEP 3 tb SEP pil SEP molar SEP 3.0 SEP 5.0 tb SEP SEP SEP ta SEP o SEP vo SEP oul SEP oo SEP W tb SEP ratio tb SEP a, tb SEP Troatment SEP Timo SEP OsoMP SEP X SEP SEP 10 tb SEP Treatment SEP liotod SEP a SEP SEP SEP d SEP I tb SEP X SEP I SEP m SEP H tb SEP 3 SEP M SEP X SEP Z SEP m SEP O SEP O SEP SEP O SEP CO SEP SEP o SEP O SEP O SEP Z SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP e SEP tb SEP I SEP R tb TABLE 1 Continued EMI20.1 tb SEP LAfter SEP Treatmant SEP Canversion SEP Coating SEP Trcatment tb SEP Treatlng SEP Phosphating tb SEP I SEP Solutio SEP I SEP I SEP Salution SEP tb SEP m SEP tb SEP EI SEP SEP oN tb SEP F SEP F3 SEP r SEP Js SEP t1 SEP O SEP Z SEP S SEP b SEP N tb SEP I SEP Inventive SEP b SEP Pl SEP EP SEP Z SEP tD SEP O SEP W SEP O SEP N SEP tb SEP Example SEP 5 SEP Example SEP 6 SEP Example SEP SEP Example SEP 8 SEP Example SEP 9 tb SEP B SEP d SEP m SEP t3 SEP ID SEP rt tb SEP Zn SEP g l SEP 1.0 SEP Ft SEP rt SEP rr SEP SD tb 4J tb SEP K SEP r SEP g l SEP 14.0 SEP rF SEP ss SEP 5. tb SEP Mn SEP g l SEP 0.8 SEP 0.8 SEP 0.8 SEP 0.8 SEP 0.8 tb SEP Ni SEP g l SEP D SEP . SEP rr SEP E SEP 3 SEP 0.3 SEP 0.3 tb SEP NO2 SEP g l SEP SEP 0.06 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.06 SEP 0.06 tb SEP tb m SEP NO3 SEP g l SEP 4.0 SEP 4.0 SEP 4.0 SEP 4.0 SEP 4.0 tb SEP rE SEP C103 SEP V rt SEP Q tb Uo tb SEP SEP tPs SEP F SEP P SEP P SEP I SEP Y tb SEP SEP Acidity SEP points SEP SEP . SEP P SEP SEP H tb F tb 0 tb P SEP Troatmen SEP Method SEP dipping SEP 10 SEP t tb SEP 1 SEP Acid SEP g l SEP 0.32 SEP 0.64 SEP SEP 0.5 tb SEP o, SEP ZrO2 SEP g l SEP 0.27 SEP 0.54 SEP ö SEP bm SEP 3 tb SEP F O tb SEP Ad SEP molar SEP 4.53 1 SEP 4.53 1 SEP O SEP . tb SEP 9 SEP 9 SEP 26 SEP ratio tb SEP I SEP foc SEP adjusting SEP p t SEP N 13 SEP N 13 SEP SEP NaOII tb SEP 5.0 SEP 5.0 SEP 4.9 SEP 3.0 tb SEP 1h1 tb SEP xo tb El tb SEP m SEP Time SEP second SEP 10 SEP 10 SEP 30 SEP 30 tb Lw tb SEP Treatment SEP F SEP SEP F SEP . SEP . SEP SEP , SEP , SEP . SEP , SEP e SEP 3 tb SEP SC SEP 5 SEP OD SEP tb SEP SEP F3 SEP O SEP X SEP O SEP h SEP I SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP z SEP H SEP 3 SEP 5 tb SEP SEP F SEP Q0 SEP SEP O SEP O SEP W SEP CD SEP O SEP O SEP l SEP F tb TABLE 2EMI21.1 SEP Metal SEP Test SEP Item SEP Inventive SEP Invention SEP Comparison tb SEP Example SEP 1 SEP Example SEP 2 SEP Example SEP 1 tb SEP Hot SEP Film SEP Apparance SEP Cood SEP Evenness SEP Cood SEP Evenness SEP Cood SEP Evenness tb SEP Dipped SEP SEP Film SEP Weight SEP 4.5 SEP 4.0 SEP SEP 4.3 tb SEP Zinc SEP g m2 SEP SEP SEP tb SEP Alloy SEP Brine SEP Spray tb SEP Plated SEP average SEP in SEP mm SEP 2.5 SEP 2.5 SEP 4.5 tb on SEP 2 SEP mm tb SEP 100 100 SEP 100 100 SEP 35 100 tb Steel SEP cuts tb SEP Adhesivity SEP tb SEP Plate SEP 1 SEP mm tb SEP 100 100 SEP 100 100 SEP 0 100 tb cuts tb SEP Electro SEP Film SEP Appearance SEP Cood SEP Evenness SEP Cood SEP Evenness SEP Cood SEP Evenness tb SEP Plated SEP Film SEP Weight tb SEP Zinc SEP on SEP g m2 SEP SEP SEP tb SEP Steel SEP Brine. SEP Spray tb SEP Plate SEP average SEP in SEP mm SEP SEP I SEP tb 2 SEP mm tb SEP 100 100 SEP 95 100 SEP 0 100 tb cuts tb SEP Adhesivity SEP tb 1 SEP mm tb SEP 90 100 SEP 85 100 SEP 0 100 tb SEP cuts tb SEP Electro SEP Film SEP Appearance SEP Cood SEP Evenness SEP Cood SEP Evenness SEP Cood SEP Evenness tb SEP Plated SEP SEP Film SEP Weight SEP tb SEP Zinc SEP g m2 SEP 4.0 SEP SEP 3.9 tb SEP Alloy SEP Brine SEP Spray tb SEP average SEP in SEP mm SEP 2.0 SEP 2.5 SEP 4.0 tb SEP on tb SEP Steel SEP 2 SEP mm tb 100 100 SEP 100 100 SEP 30 100 tb SEP Plate SEP cuts SEP tb Adhesivity SEP SEP 1 SEP mm SEP 95 100 SEP 90 100 SEP 0 100 tb SEP cuts SEP tb SEP Film SEP Appearance SEP Good SEP Evenness SEP SEP Good SEP Evenness SEP SEP Good SEP Evenness tb SEP and SEP Denseness SEP SEP and SEP Denseness SEP SEP and SEP Denseness tb SEP SEP Film SEP Weight SEP 31 SEP 1.4 SEP 1.6 tb SEP Cold SEP g m2 SEP tb SEP Rolled SEP Brine SEP Spray tb SEP Steel SEP average SEP in SEP mm SEP 1.0 SEP 1.0 SEP 1.5 SEP tb Plate SEP 2mm tb SEP 100 100 SEP 100 100 SEP 50 100 tb cuts tb SEP Adhesivity SEP tb 1 SEP mm tb SEP 100 100 SEP 100 100 SEP 0 100 tb cuts tb Spot SEP Rusting tb SEP 0.86 SEP 0.88 SEP 1.80 tb SEP average SEP in SEP mm tb TABLE 2 Continued EMI22.1 Comparison SEP Comparison SEP Comperison tb Metal SEP Test SEP Item tb Examlple SEP 2 SEP Example SEP 3 SEP Example SEP 4 tb SEP Hot SEP Film SEP Appearance SEP Cood SEP Evenness SEP Cood SEP Evenness SEP Cood SEP Evenness tb SEP Dipped SEP Film SEP Weight tb 4.0 SEP 4.0 SEP 4.0 tb SEP Zinc SEP g m2 tb Allcy SEP Brine SEP Spray tb 6.0 SEP 5.5 SEP 7.0 tb Flated SEP Average SEP in SEP mm tb SEP or. SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP mm SEP 0 100 SEP 55 100 SEP tb 0 100 SEP 100 SEP 20 100 tb Steel SEP cuts tb Adhsivity SEP tb SEP Plate SEP 1 SEP mm tb SEP 0 100 SEP 0 100 SEP 0 100 tb cuts tb SEP Electro SEP Film SEP Appearance SEP Cood SEP Evenness SEP Cood SEP Evenness SEP Cood SEP Evenness tb SEP Plated SEP Film SEP Weight SEP 3.2 SEP 3.2 SEP 3.2 tb SEP Zinc SEP on SEP SEP g 22 SEP SEP i SEP tb SEP Steel SEP Brine SEP Spray tb SEP average SEP in SEP mm SEP 6.5 SEP 8.5 SEP 6.0 tb SEP 0 100 SEP 20 100 SEP 0 100 tb cuts tb Adhesivity SEP tb 1 SEP mm tb 0 100 SEP 0 100 SEP 0 100 tb SEP cuts tb SEP Electro SEP Film SEP Appeerance SEP Cood SEP Evenness SEP Cood SEP Evenness SEP Cood SEP Evemmess tb SEP Plated SEP Film SEP Weight tb SEP 3.6 SEP 3.6 SEP 3.6 tb SEP Zinc SEP g m2 tb SEP Allov SEP Brine SEP Spray SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP tb on SEP SEP SEP average SEP in SEP mm SEP SEP 5.5 SEP SEP tb SEP Steel SEP 2 SEP mm tb SEP 0 100 SEP 60 100 SEP 15 100 tb Plate SEP cuts tb Adhesivity SEP tb 1 SEP mm tb 0 100 SEP 0 100 SEP 0 100 tb cuts tb SEP Film SEP Appearance SEP Good SEP Evenness SEP Good SEP Evenness SEP Good SEP Evenness tb SEP and SEP Denseness SEP and SEP Denseness SEP and SEP Denseness tb SEP Film SEP Weight tb 1.4 SEP 1.4 SEP 1.4 tb SEP Cold SEP g m2 tb SEP Rolled SEP Brine SEP Spray tb 3.5 SEP 3.0 SEP 3.0 tb SEP Steel SEP average SEP in SEP mmD SEP tb SEP Plate SEP 2 SEP mm tb SEP 60 100 SEP 80 100 SEP 45 100 tb cuts tb Adhesivity SEP tb 1 SEP mm tb SEP 15 100 SEP 30 100 SEP 10 100 tb cuts tb SEP Spot SEP Rusting tb SEP 2.45 SEP 1.21 SEP 2.66 tb SEP average SEP in SEP mm tb TABLE 2 Continued EMI23.1 tb SEP Comparison SEP Inventive SEP Inventive tb Metal SEP Test SEP Item tb Example SEP 5 SEP Example SEP 3 SEP Example SEP 4 tb SEP Hot SEP Film SEP Appearchce SEP Cood SEP Evenness SEP Cood SEP Evenness SEP Cood SEP Evenness tb SEP Dipped SEP Film SEP Weight SEP and SEP Denseness SEP and SEP Denseness tb SEP 4.5 tb SEP Zinc SEP g m2 SEP 3.0 SEP 3.0 tb SEP Allcy SEP Brine SEP Spray tb SEP Plated SEP average SEP in SEP mm SEP 3.5 SEP 1.0 SEP 1.5 tb on SEP 2 SEP mm tb SEP 58 100 SEP 100 100 SEP 100 100 tb SEP Steel SEP cuts tb Adhesivity SEP tb SEP Plate SEP 1 SEP mm tb SEP 0 100 SEP 100 100 SEP 100 100 tb cuts tb SEP Electro SEP Film SEP Appearance SEP Cood SEP Evenness SEP Cood SEP Evenness SEP Cood SEP Evenness tb Plated SEP Film SEP Weight SEP and SEP Denseness SEP and SEP Denseness tb SEP 3.5 tb SEP Zinc SEP on SEP g m2 SEP 2.2 SEP 2.2 tb SEP Steel SEP Brine SEP Spray tb SEP average SEP in SEP mm SEP 6.5 SEP 1.5 SEP 1.5 tb SEP Plate tb SEP 24 100 SEP 100 100 SEP 100 100 tb cuts tb SEP Adhesivity SEP tb 1 SEP mm tb SEP 0 100 SEP 100 100 SEP 100 100 tb cuts tb Electro SEP Film SEP Appearance SEP Cood SEP Evenness SEP Cood SEP Evenness SEP Cood SEP Evenness tb SEP Flated SEP Film SEP Weight SEP and SEP Denseness SEP and SEP Denseness tb 4.0 tb SEP Zinc SEP g m2 SEP 3.1 SEP 3.1 tb SEP Alloy SEP Brine SEP Spray tb on SEP average SEP in SEP mm SEP 3.0 SEP 1.0 SEP 1.5 tb SEP Stoel SEP 2 SEP mm tb SEP 64 100 SEP 100 100 SEP 100 100 tb SEP Plate SEP cuts tb Adhesivity SEP tb 1 SEP mm tb SEP 8 100 SEP 100 100 SEP 100 100 tb cuts tb Film SEP Appearance SEP Cood SEP Evenness SEP Cood SEP Evenness SEP Cood SEP Evenness tb SEP and SEP Denseness SEP and SEP Denseness SEP and SEP Denseness tb SEP Film SEP Weight tb SEP Cold SEP g m2 SEP 3.1 SEP 2.3 SEP 2.3 tb Rolled SEP Brine SEP Sprey tb average SEP in SEP mm SEP 1.5 SEP 1.0 SEP 1.0 tb SEP Steel tb SEP 100 100 SEP 100 100 SEP 100 100 tb cuts tb Adhesivity SEP tb SEP 1 SEP mm tb SEP 100 100 SEP 100 100 SEP 100 100 tb cuts tb Spot SEP Rusting tb SEP everage SEP in SEP mm SEP 1.20 SEP 0.70 SEP 0.76 tb TABLE 2 Continued EMI24.1 tb SEP Metal SEP Test SEP Item SEP Inventive SEP Comparison tb SEP Example SEP 5 SEP Example SEP 6 tb SEP Hot SEP Film SEP Appearance SEP Cood SEP Evenness SEP Cood SEP Evenness tb Dipped SEP Film SEP Weight SEP and SEP Denseness tb SEP Zinc SEP g m2 SEP 3.0 SEP 4.6 tb SEP Alloy SEP Brine SEP Spray tb Plated SEP average SEP in SEP mm 1.5 SEP 3.5 SEP tb SEP on tb SEP Steel SEP cuts tb Adhesivity SEP tb Plate SEP 1 SEP mm tb 100 100 SEP 0 100 tb SEP cuts tb Electro SEP Film SEP Appearance SEP Cood SEP Evenness SEP Cood SEP Evenness tb SEP Plated SEP Film SEP weight SEP and SEP Denseness tb Zinc SEP on SEP g mê SEP 2.2 SEP 3.8 tb SEP Steel SEP Brine SEP Spray SEP tb Plate SEP average SEP in SEP mm SEP 1.5 SEP 6.0 tb SEP 100 100 SEP 0 100 tb SEP cuts tb SEP Adhesivity SEP tb 1 SEP mm tb SEP 100 100 SEP 0 100 tb SEP cuts tb Electro SEP Film SEP Appearance SEP Cood SEP Evenness SEP Cood SEP Evenness tb SEP Plated SEP SEP Film SEP Weight SEP and SEP Denseness tb SEP Zinc SEP g m2 SEP 3.1 SEP 4.5 tb Alloy SEP t SEP Brine SEP SDray SEP 3.0 tb on SEP average SEP in SEP mm SEP 1.0 SEP 3.0 tb SEP Steel SEP 2 SEP mm tb 100 100 SEP 45 100 tb SEP Plate SEP cuts tb SEP Adhesivity SEP tb 1 SEP mm tb 100 100 SEP 0 100 tb cuts tb SEP Film. SEP Appearance SEP SEP Good SEP Evenness SEP SEP Good SEP Evenness tb SEP Film SEP Weight SEP and SEP Denseness tb Cold SEP g m2 SEP 2.3 SEP 3.4 tb Rolled SEP Brine. SEP Spray tb SEP Steel SEP average SEP in SEP mm SEP 1.0 SEP 2.5 tb SEP Plate SEP 2 SEP mm tb 100 100 SEP 60 100 tb cuts tb SEP Adhesivity SEP tb 1 SEP mm tb SEP 100 100 SEP 0 100 tb SEP cuts tb Spot SEP Rusting tb SEP average SEP in SEP mm SEP 0.72 SEP 1.96 tb TABLE 2 Continued EMI25.1 tb SEP Comparison SEP Comparison SEP Comparison tb SEP Metal SEP Test SEP Item tb SEP Example SEP 7 SEP Example SEP 8 SEP Example SEP 9 tb SEP Hot SEP Film SEP Appearance SEP Good SEP Evenness SEP Good SEP Evenness SEP Good SEP Evenness tb SEP Dipped SEP rilm SEP Weight SEP and SEP Denseness SEP and SEP Denseness SEP and SEP Denseness tb SEP Zinc SEP g m2 SEP 3.0 SEP 3.0 SEP 3.0 tb SEP Alloy SEP Brine SEP Spray SEP tb SEP Plated SEP average SEP in SEP mm tb SEP on SEP 2 SEP mm tb 100 100 SEP 100 100 SEP 100 100 tb SEP Steel SEP cuts tb SEP Adhesivity SEP tb Plate SEP 1 SEP mm tb 100 100 SEP 95 100 SEP 100 100 tb cuts tb SEP Electro SEP Film SEP Appearance SEP Cood SEP Evenness SEP Cood SEP Evenness SEP Cood SEP Evenness tb SEP Plated SEP Film SEP weight SEP SEP and SEP Denseness SEP and SEP Denseness SEP and SEP Denseness tb SEP Zinc SEP on SEP g m2 SEP 2.2 SEP 2.2 SEP 2.2 tb SEP Steel SEP Brine SEP Spray tb SEP Plate SEP average SEP in SEP mm tb 2 SEP mm tb SEP 100 100 SEP 95 100 SEP 100 100 tb SEP cuts tb SEP Adhesivity SEP tb 1 SEP mm tb SEP 93 100 SEP 90 100 SEP 95 100 tb SEP cuts tb SEP Electro SEP Film SEP Appearance SEP Cood SEP Evenness SEP Cood SEP Evenness SEP Cood SEP Evenness tb SEP Plated SEP Film SEP Weight SEP and SEP Denseness SEP and SEP Denseness SEP and SEP Denseness tb SEP Zinc SEP g m2 SEP 3.1 SEP 3.1 SEP 3.1 tb SEP Alloy SEP Brine SEP Spray SEP 1.5 SEP 2.5 SEP 2.0 tb SEP on SEP I SEP average SEP in SEP mm tb Steel SEP 2 SEP mm tb SEP 100 100 SEP 100 100 SEP 100 100 tb SEP Plate SEP cuts tb SEP Adhesivity SEP tb 1 SEP mm tb SEP 100 100 SEP 97 100 SEP 100 100 tb SEP I SEP outs tb SEP Film SEP Appearance SEP I SEP Good SEP Evenness SEP Good SEP Evenness SEP Good SEP Evenness tb SEP Film SEP weight SEP I SEP and SEP Denseness SEP and SEP Denseness SEP and SEP Denseness tb SEP Cold SEP g mê SEP 2.3 SEP 2.3 SEP 2.3 SEP tb SEP Rolled SEP Brine SEP Spray tb SEP Steel SEP average SEP in SEP mm SEP SEP 1 SEP 1. SEP 1.5 SEP 1 tb SEP Plate SEP 2 SEP mm tb 100 100 SEP 100 100 SEP 100 100 tb cuts tb Adhesvity SEP tb 1 SEP mm tb SEP 100 100 SEP 100 100 SEP 100 100 tb SEP cuts SEP SEP 100 100 SEP 100 100 SEP 100 100 tb SEP Spot SEP Rusting tb SEP 0.94 SEP 0.98 SEP 0.98 tb SEP average SEP in SEP mm tb