# Machine using angular clips to joint frames.

## Abstract
Machine to joint frames which includes in mutual cooperation and coordination a containing framework II having a substantially rectangular shape and comprising a base equipped with shaped means 22 to position the frames to be jointed, a clamping plate 12 which slides and is guided vertically by the upright sides III of said framework II , drive means 13 for the vertical movement of said clamping plate 12 which are secured to said framework II and means 14 which apply the clips and comprise a store 16 for a pack of clips 115 , a head 17 with a thrusting point 21 and means 18 to actuate said head 17 together with its point, whereby means 19 are provided which regulate the clamping position of said clamping plate 12 . The machine to joint frames applies triangular clips 15 151 which have a special shape and are able to make a rigid joint even for small frames.

## Claims
CL A I M S I. Machine to joint frames, characterized by including in mutual cooperation and coordination a containing framework II having a substantially rect angular shape and comprising a base equipped with shaped means 22 to position the frames to be jointed, a clamping plate 12 which slides and is guided vertical ly by the upright sides III of said framework Ilj, drive means 13 for the vertical movement of the clamping plate 12 which are secured to said framework II and means 14 which apply the clips and comprise a store. 16 for a pack of clips 115 , a head 17 with a thrust . ing point 21 and means I e to actuate said head 17 to gether with its point, whereby means are provided 19 which regulate the clamping. position od said clamping plate 12 . 2. Machine to joint frames as in Claim I, characterized by the facts that the means 14 which apply the clip 15 are located underneath the clamping plate 12 and that the. clip 15 is inserted from above the joint. 3. Machine to joint frames as in Claims I and 2, char . acterized by the fact that said drive means 13 for the vertical movement of the plate 12 consist of one or more pneumatic jacks 113 actuated so as to extend, anchored at one. end to the upper side of said framework 11 and having their relative stems 213 anchored at their ends to the upper surface of said plate 12 . 4. Machine to joint frames as in Claim I and in one or. the other of the Claims thereafter, characterized by the fact that said means 18 for the actuation of said head 17 consist of a pneumatic jack 18 anchored at its upper end to said plate 12 in sùch a way as to correspond with a central hole 112 envisaged in said plate, whereby the stem 2181 of said pneumatic jack 18 protrudes through said hole it2 . 5. Machine to joint frames as in Claim I and in one or another of the Claims thereafter, characterized by the facts that the means I4 which apply the clip are located beneath the base which holds the frames to be jointed, and that the clip 15 is inserted from below the joint, whereby a hole which forms a natural continuation of the hole 520 guiding the head 17 and clip 15 is provided in said base. 6. Machine to joint frames as in Claim I and in one or another of the Claims thereafter, characterized by the fact. that said drive means 13 for the vertical movement of the. plate 12 consist of one or more pneumatic jacks it3 actuated so as to contract, having their fixed part anchored below the base holding the frames to be jointed and having their stems anchored to the lower side of the plate 12 . 7. Machine to joint frames as in Claim I and in one or. another of the Claims thereafter up to Claim 5 inclusive, characterized by the fact that the means 18 to actuate said head 17 consist of a pneumatic jack 18 anchored atThe lower end of means 14 which apply a clip and which are. provided below the base holding the frames. 8. Machine to joint frames as in Claim I and in one or. another of the Claims thereafter, characterized by the fact. that the means 14 which apply the clip consist of a support 20 anchored below said plate 12 , whereby said sup . port 20 has a middle part 220 with a central hole 520 . in which is lodged the head 17 with the thrusting point 21 anchored to the end of the stem 218 of said pneumatic jack 18 , and whereby said support 20 has a part 320 jutting out sideways and comprising a groove 420 which forms said store 16 and communicates with said hole 520 r 9. Machine to joint frames as in Claim I and in one or. another of the Claims thereafter, characterized by the fact hat said thrusting point 21 has a triangular section. IO. Machine to joint frames as in Claim I and in one or another of the Claims thereafter, characterized by the fact that said pneumatic jack 18 has an extension 118 which can be moved vertically In relation to said framework 11 and which moves in aguide hole 211 provided in said framework II . II. Machine to joint frames as in Claim I and in one or another of the Claims thereafter, characterized by the fact that said extension 118 has a threaded portion 119 which cooperates with said means 19 that regulate the clamping. position of the plate 12 . 12. Machine to joint frames as in Claim I and in one or another of the Claims thereafter, characterized by the fact that said regulating means 19 consist of a flanged knob 219 which is threaded inside and which cooperates with said threaded portion 211 of said extension 118 of said pneumatic jack 18 . 13. Machine to joint frames as in Claim I and in one or another of the Claims thereafter, characterized by the fact that the head 17 is provided at its side with a raised surface 26 able to cooperate with an appropriate groove 27 made in the hole 520 so as to guide the descent of the point 21 of said head 17 still farther. 14. Machine to joint frames as in Claim I and in one or another of the Claims thereafter, characterized by the fact that near the outlet of the groove 420 into the upright hole 520 there are provided above said groove some. pressure means 25 able to keep packs 115 of clips 15 151 of differing heights in the right position in relation to the end of the groove 420 . 15. Machine to joint frames as in Claim I and in one or another of the Claims thereafter, characterized by the facX that said pressure means 25 consist of a sliding block 125 lodged above the groove 420 and equipped with an in ducting surface 225 , and also of thrust spring means 325 able to keep said block 125 pressed against the upper surface of the pack 115 . 16. Machine to joint frames as in Claim I and In one or .another of the Claims thereafter, characterized by the fact that each of said triangular clips 15 151 has two symmet rical arms 715 which hold a corner between them and are connected together by a small middle portion 415 that is .substantially flat and forms the same angle with each arm 715 , said arms 715 being equipped at one of their ends with outwardly bent edges 315 . I7..Machine 17.. Machine to joint frames as in Claim I and in one or another of the Claims thereafter, characterized by the fact that said clips 151 have one or more lengthwise grooves 6I5 in their middle portion 415 . 18. Machine to joint frames as in Claim I and in one or another of the Claims thereafter, characterized by the fact that the triangular clips 15 151 form an angle that varie.sv between 30 and 150 degrees. . I9. Machine to joint frames as in Claim I and in one or another of the Claims thereafter, characterized by the fact that the triangular clips 15 151 form a right angle. 20. Machine to joint frames as in Claim I and in one or. another of the Claims thereafter, characterized by the fact. that said head 17 with a point comprises two upright gro . oves 620 made in the surface opposite the groove 420 and. within the hole 520 , whereby said grooves 620 can lodge. and guide said outwardly bent edges 315 of said clips I5 151 . 21. Trinagular clips 15 151 substantially as described, shown and claimed and for the purposes allowed. 22. Machine to joint frames, substantially as described, shown and claimed and for the purposes allowed.

## Description
Description of the Invention entitled MACHINE USING ANGULAR CLIPS JOlArT FRAMES This invention concerns a machine to joint frames. To be more exact, the invention concerns a machine to joint frames by using angular clips of a special shape of whit the sides are located along the frames to be jointed, and also concerns the angular clips of the invention. Machines to joint frames are known which use metal clips inserted perpendicularly to the line of the joint of the frames to be united. One known type of these jointing machines consists of a movable clamping plate solidly fixed to two vertical guiding uprights, which slide within guiding sleeves fixed to the work bench and are anchored at one of their ends to a lower plate which is located below the work bench and bears a pneumatic jack, whereby the upper end of said jack is equipped with a jointing head able to receive jointing clips from a knurled metal tape coming from a bobbin positioned at the side of said device and beneath the work bench on which the frames are arranged with a suitable guide. According to this embodiment, when the jack is acAuaXtes the lower plate is thrust downwards and thereby lowers the upper plate, which thus compresses and clamps the frames to be jointed. At the end of the travel of the jack a straight clip is shot from below through a hole located in the work bench and is thrust by the jack across the line of the joint and therefore diagonally tn relation to the frames to be joint ed. This known jointing machine entails various shortcom .ings. One of them is the overall bulk of the jointing machine and the need to have a work bench to which the machine is secured. Another shortcoming lies in the fact that the machine.requires a bobbin of knurled metal tape. A drawback is also due to the diagonal application of the straight clip, for this application requires wider frames. Such knurled clips thus located diagonally to the fra, mes require also that the jack should give them a heavy thrust, which can possibly damage the frames themselves, especially so if the frames are made of soft wood, since said clips are applied substantially diagonally in relation to the fibres of the wood, which therefore opposes a stronger resistance to penetration. This problem becomes even worse since an increase in the thrust of the jack strengthens the pressure of the clamping plates against the frames in an unfavourable manner. It should be emphasised that, so as to obviate the problems concerning the diagonal clips and the bobbin of knurled tape, a machine has been proposed which is of a like construction but which is provided with a store of triangular.clips fitted at the end of the stem of the jack. Said known machine, which is the subiect of patent FR 2318715, entails substantially the same problems as regards excessive squeezing of the frames. The known jointing machines are therefore not suitable for jointing frames made of a not very hard wood. A purpose of our invention is to embody a jointing machine able to eliminate the aforesaid shortcomings and drawback. Another purpose is to embody triangular clips of a special shape for use together with the jointing machine of our invention. An advantage of the invention is to obtain a stiffer joint. Another advantage is that such a stiffer joint can be made both with frames made of soft wood and with frames having a minimum width starting at 5 mm., without any damage to said frames. A further advantage lies in the fact that the jointed frames can be of a type with a lengthwise groove, whereby the angular clips of the invention are located in said grooves along the fibres of the wood. Yet another advantape is the modest overall size of the jointing machine of the invention and the fact that it is portable, these being factors which have a favourable effect on the overall cost of the machine and its usefulness. The invention is therefore embodied with a machine us ing angular clips to joint frames, said machine being char acterized by comprising in mutual cooperation and coordinat ion a containing framework having a base equipped with shaped means for positioning the frame to be jointed, a sliding clamping plate which is guided vertically by the upright sides of said framework, drive means for the vertical movement of said clamping plate, said means being anchored to said framework, and means which apply angular clips and comprise a store for. a pack of angular clips, a thrusting head with a trianpu lar point and jack means for driving said pointed head, whereby means are envisaged which regulate the travel of the clamping plate. According to the preferential embodiment of the invent ion said drive means for the vertical movement of the clamp ing plate consist of one or more pneumatic jacks having their upper end anchored to the upper side of the framework, whereas the ends of their relative stems are secured to saidg clamping. plate. Furthermore, according to the preferential embodiment. the jack means which drive said pointed head also consist of a pneumatic jack anchored in an upright manner to the middle of the surface of said plate, whereby the upper end of the jack has means which regulate the travel of the pla te,and which cooperate with the upper side of said frame work, and whereby the jack bears said triangular point on its own stem. Moreover, according to the invention vertical guide means are envisaged which can guide the thrusting point du rt ng insertion of the clips, and abutting means are also en bvisaged which can,hold packs of clips of various heights within the store in the right position in relation to the path of the thrusting point. The clips of the invention are triangular and each of them has two symmetrical arms which can hold a corner be tween them and are joined together with a small middle port ion, which is substantially flat and forms the same angle with each arm the outer ends of said arms are provided with an edge bent outwards. According to a variant the middle portion comprises one or more shallow grooves. According to the Invention the presence of the flat middle portion provided in said clips gives a stronger joint. Said flat portion also serves to guide the clip vertI cally during its insertion in the frame, being supported at its back by the pack from which it is being detached. This vertical guiding action is also completed owing to the cooperation of the outwardly bent edges, which coop erate with appropriate grooves provided inside the descent. hole of the pointed head, as will be described hereinafter. We shall now describe, as a non restrictive example, a. preferential embodiment of the invention with the help of the attached table, wherein Fig.I is a front view of the jointing machine of the in . invention Fig.2 is a partial vertical section along the line A A of Fig.I Fig.3 is a crosswise section of the pointed head of Fig.2 along the line B B ,Fig.4 shows the shaped positioning means Fig.5 shows a joint made between two parts of a frame with a triangular clip of the invention Fig.6 shows one shape of the triangular clip. In the figures the same parts or parts having the same.functions bear the same reference numbers.Kith reference to Fig.I, IO indicates the pointing machine of the invention II is the containing framework and 12 is the clamping plate which runs within the upright guides III provided in the upright sides of the framework .11 13 are drive means which can move the plate 12 and con. .sist,in this instance, of two pneumatic jacks 113 anchored .to the upper side of the framework II, their stems 213 being solidly fixed to the plate said means 13 can be replaced with one single jack located in the middle of the plate I2. The clamping plate 12 bears at its middle the means 14 for applytng angular clips IS said means 14 shown in Figs.2 and 3 comprise a store 16 for the pack 115 of angular clips and a head 17 with a triangular point 21, whereby the store 16 and head 17 are located below said plate 12 said means 14 also comprise means 18 to drive said head means 17, said means 18 being in this instance a pneumatic jack ancho red to the upper surface of said plate 12 the opposite end of said jack 18 comprises the part which cooperates with the upper side of the framework II through the means 19 that regulate ,the travel of the plate 12 said regulating means .19 consist of a threaded portion 119 of the part 118 passing through a hole 211 provided on the upper side of the frame work II and also consist of a flanged abutting knob 219 screwed onto said threaded portion 119. So as to adjust the travel of the plate 12, the verti cal position of the flanged abutting knpb 219 is adjusted so that it rests on the outer surface of the upper side of the framework, thus hindering the further forward movement. .of the plate and determining the end of the run thereon.This procedure prevents the plate 12 from buckling the fra me to be jointed. With reference to Figs. 2 and 3, the means 14 which ap .ply the clips consist of one single support 20 located beneath the plate 12 and having a middle part 210 which comes into contact with the joint when the clamping plate 12 goes down, and also having a part 320 which juts out sideways. The jutting part has a groove 420 which forms the store of the pack 115 loaded by means of the spring 16. Said groove 420 communicates with an upright hole 520 having a rectangular section and located in the middle part. 220 of the support 20. Xear the outlet of the groove 420 and in the upright hole 520 pressure means 25 are located higher than the grove itself and are able to keep packs 115 of clips 15 151 of various heights in the right position in relation to the bottom of the groove 420 so as to ensure at all times the proper detachment of a clip 15 151 from its pack 115. In our example the pressure means 25 consist of a sliding block 125 lodged above the groove 420 and equipped with, an inducting surface 225 and with thrust spring means 325 able to keep it pressed against the upper surface of the pack it5 . The plate 12 includes a hole 112 through which passes.a stem 218 of the pneumatic jack 18, to which is anchored the.head 17 with its point having a triangular section 21 said head 17 is guided by the walls of the hole 520 and is able to detach one angular clip 15 at a time from the pack 115 and to apply it to the joint of the frame 215 already clam ped by the plate 12 by means of the middle part 220 of the.support 20 in suitably shaped means 22 anchored to the base pf the framework II so as to position the frames to be j,pin ted. Said point having a triangular section is equipped at.its side with a jutting surface 26 able to cooperate with a groove 27 provided in said hole 520 so as to guide the des . cent of said point 21 still farther. According to a variant of the preferential embodiment, while the characteristics of the elements composing the jointing machine remain substantially unchanged, the fixed part of the jacks 113 can be anchored below to the base holding.the frames to be jointed, said jacks 113 can be operated so as to contract instead of extending for the descent of the.clamping plate 12, the means 14 applying the clip 15 can be located uside down below said base holding the frames to be loin ted and a hole can be provided in said base which will be the natural continuation of the hole 520. According to said variant the clip is inserted into the joint from underneath, thereby permitting advantageously, in the case of frames having a complex section, the support of the frames on said base by means of the flat rear surface of the frames, thus retaining all the advantages belonging to the preferential embodiment. With reference to Fig.5, the clips of the invention are triangular and each of them has two symmetrical arms 715 to hold a corner between them said arms 715 are connected together with a small middle portion 415 which is substantial ly flat and forms the same angle with each arm 715 said arms 715 are equipped at their outer end with an edge 315 bent outwards. According to the variant of Fig.6 the middle portion 415 or the clip 151 has one or more shallow grooves 615. .According to the invention the presence of said flat middle.portion 615 envisaged in said clips 151 gives a stronger joint. Said flat portion 415 also serves to guide the clip 15 151 vertically while it is entering the frame 215 and is be. ing supported at its back by the pack 115 from which it is being detached. This vertical guiding action is also completed owing tom the cooperation of the outwardly bent edges 315 with appropriate grooves 620 envisaged inside the hole 520. Said shaped means for positioning the frames are shown.in Fig.4 and consist of a bar having a frontal angled shape.able to position the frames in relation to each other in the jointing position shown in Fig.5. Said shaped positioning means 22 are provided with a portion 222 shaped like the form of the joint and with an al ignment arm 322 stretching rearwards in relation to saidshaped portion 222 and cooperating with guide means 23 secured to the framework, whereby said guide means are equipped.with clamping means 24 consisting of a locking screw 124 able to clamp said alignment arm within the guide means 23. According to the invention the pneumatic means are pro vided with suitable actuation and control means, which are helpfully of a known pedal type and are therefore not shown. Moreover, according to the invention the clips 15 are angled and comprise outwardly bent end edges able to hinder displacement of the relative sides of the clip after its application said edges also cooperate with grooves provided in the head so as to guide the clip while the latter is go ing downwards. As a safety measure the front and perhaps also the rearm side of the jointing machine will be equipped with a sheet metal cover. At the front this cover will leave uncovered the lower. part, which will instead be closed with a transparent, cover, thus allowing the machine operator to check the prior posit. ioning and execution of the joint visually. Let us now see the method of working the machIneoper ator positions the frames to be jointed and keeps them still with the help of the positioning means 22. When the pedal, which is not shown here, is operated, the pneumatic means 13 are actuated and lower the plate 12 down to the end of its run, which is regulated by the adjustment means 19. At the end of the run of the plate 12 the lower surface of the support 2d lies just in contact with the upper surface of the joint. The means 14 which apply the clip 15 are now operated with the drive of the pneumatic jack 18. In this way the head 17 with the triangular point 21 is thrust as far as the surface of the joint so as to insert the clip into the frame without having to squeeze said frame, thus preventing it from being damaged by compression. Moreover, according to the invention the clips 15 can be right angled or else can be formed at any angle between 30 and 150 degrees. Furthermore, the shaped positioning means 22 can haze a positioning shape 222 which is not right angled but is comprised between 30 and 150 degrees to suit the type of frame to be formed, that is, so as to enable a joint to be made between parts of the frame which are sloped but not per pendicular to each other. We have described here a preferential but not restrict ive embodiment of the invention, but other variants are pos sible for a person skilled in this field. Thus the shape, proportions and sizes can be changed and the pneumatic means can be replaced with hydraulic or other means, the whole being possible for a person skilled in this field without departing thereby from the scope of the invention.