# De aluminization of aluminosilicates.

## Abstract
A process for the de aluminization of aluminosilicate such as zeolites, clays, gels and amorphous silica aluminas. The process comprises contacting an aluminosili cate with an inorganic halide or oxyhalide at a temperature sufficiently high enough to volatilize the aluminum halide or oxyhalide which is formed.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A process for removing aluminum from aluminosilicates having a constraint index below 12 and a major pore dimension greater than 5nm. which comprises contacting the hydrogen form of the aluminosilicate at elevated temperature with an organic halide or oxyhalide comprising a halogen and a non halogen component, forming an aluminum halide, depositing a non halogen component in the aluminosilicate, and volatilizing and removing the formed aluminum halide. 2. The process of claim 1 wherein the halogen is chlorine, bromine or iodine. 3. The process of claim 2 wherein the halogen is chlorine and the temperature is between 1400C and 7600C. 4. The process of claim 3 wherein the temperature is between 1800C and 6000 C. 5. The process of claim 2 wherein the halogen is bromine and the temperature is between 150 C and 800at. 6. The process of claim 5 wherein the temperature is between 260 C and 7000 C. 7. The process of claim 2 wherein the halogen is iodine and the temperature is between 250 C and 8O00C. 8. The process of claim 7 wherein the temperature is between 380 C and 7000C. 9. The process of any preceding claim wherein the aluminosilicate is selected from zeolites, amorphous silica aluminas, and silicon and aluminum containg clays and gels. 10. The process of any preceding claim wherein the aluminosilicate is selected from kaolinite, halloysite, montmorillonite and illite. 11. The process of any preceding claim wherein the inorganic halide is SiC14. 12 The process of any claims 1 to 9 and 11 wherein the zeolite is ZSM 5. 13. The process of any of claims 1 to 9 and 11 wherein the zeolite ZSM ll, ZSM 12, ZSM 20, a faujasite or mordenite.

## Description
DE ALUMINIZATION OF ALUMINOSILICATES This invention relates to the removal of aluminum from aluminosilicate compositions, especially from crystalline aluminosilicate zeolites. Considerable effort has been devoted to the improvement of natural and synthetic aluminum containing oxides such as clays, gels, aluminosilicates and the like with regard to pore structure, crystalline form, catalytic and adsorptive activity and thermal, hydrothermal and acid stability. Substantial incentive for this endeavor results from the broad application that such compositions have found as adsorbents, catalysts and ion exchange media in numerous chemical and hydrocarbon conversion and process systems. It is often the case that the chemical, physical and catalytic properties of these materials deteriorate on exposure to process environments, particularly those involving elevated temperatures, acidic process media or contact with steam.For example, the crystallinity and catalytic activity of aluminosilicate hydrocracking catalysts are known to deteriorate on exposure to repeated regeneration which often involves exposing the catalyst to an extreme temperature capable of burning off deposited coke and residual hydrocarbon. The regeneration of such cracking catalysts generally requires that the catalyst be able to withstand steam and or thermal atmospheres at temperatures in a range of l,3000 l,7000F. These compositions must also be able to withstand the chemically degrading influence of acidic materials such as the sulfur and nitrogen oxides encountered during regeneration of some systems. One factor that is known to influence the tolerance of crystalline aluminosilicates to acidic and thermal environments is the structural silica to alumina mole ratio. The value of procedures that are effective in increasing this ratio is therefore readily apparent. In synthetic crystalline aluminosilicate zeolites, the silica to alumina mole ratio is essentially determined by the nature of the starting materials and the relative quantities of such materials used in the preparation of the zeolite. Some variation in the silica to alumina mole ratio can be obtained by changing the proportion of reactants, e.g., increasing the relative concentration of the silica precursor relative to the alumina precursor. However, definite limits in the maximum obtainable silica to alumina mole ratio are observed. For example, synthetic faujasites having a silica to alumina mole ratio of about 5.2 to 5.6 can be obtained by increasing the relative proportion of the silica precursor. However, when the silica proportion is increased to even higher levels no commensurate increase in the silica to alumina mole ratio of the crystallized synthetic faujasite is observed.Thus, the silica to alumina mole ratio of about 5.6 must be considered an upper limit in a preparative process using conventional reagent. Corresponding upper limits in the silica to alumina mole ratio of mordenite and erionite via the synthetic pathway are also observed. Accordingly, attempts to increase the silica to alumina mole ratio of crystalline zeolites by removal of aluminum from the crystal structure with strong acids have heretofore been reported. The silica to alumina mole ratio of zeolites have been increased by converting the parent zeolite at least partially to its hydrogen form, hydrolyzing the aluminum to aluminum hydroxide, and thereafter physically removing the displaced aluminum.U.S. Specifications 3,442,795, 4,093,560, 3,691,099, and 3,640,681 describe techniques for removing aluminum from such zeolites. DEOS 2,510,740 describes removal of aluminum chloride from zeolites using chlorine or hydrochloric acid gas. The instant invention concerns a process for the de aluminization of aluminosilicates such as zeolites, clays, gels, amorphous silica aluminas and crystalline silica aluminas, comprising contacting an aluminosilicate within inorganic halide or oxyhalide at temperatures sufficiently high to volatilize the resultant aluminum halide or aluminum oxyhalide which is formed. The aluminum halide or aluminum oxyhalide is then removed as a vapor. The aluminosilicates can thus be dealuminized without substantially destroying their structure.Zeolites are subjected to the process of the invention in the hydrogen form in order to eliminate the possibility of reaction between metal cations and the halide. The invention is particularly useful for the dealuminization of large pore zeolites such as ZSM 20, and also for the dealuminization of zeolites beta ZSM 5, ZSM ll, ZSM 12 and natural and synthetic faujasites and mordenites. The zeolites to which the invention has application are characterised by having a constraint index below 12 and a pore dimension in the case of zeolites having non circular pores a major pore dimension greater than 5nm. Constraint index is defined in our G8 Specification 1,446,522. The contemplated clay materials include compositions identified as hydrated aluminum silicates having the general formula A1203. xSiO2. yH20 wherein x is an integer of from about 0.5 to about 600 and y, depending upon the state of hydration is from about 1 to about 300, and which may have associated therewith one or more metals or metal oxides of Group IA,IIA and VIII of the Periodic Table of Elements. Non limiting examples of such hydrated aluminum silicate minerals which comprise the major proportion of clays for use in the present invention include kaolinite A1203.2SiO2.nH20 , halloysite A1203.3Si02.nH2O montmorillonite Mg, Ca O.A1203.5Si02.nH2O and illite K20, MgO, A1203, Six,, H20 all in variable amounts . The quantity n of the above general formulas depends upon the degree of hydration of the particular clay mineral and will most often be between about 1 and about 300. Since the clay mineral for use herein must not be heated to a temperature exceeding 1000C prior to or during ion exchange, n will seldom be below about 1. Non limiting examples of clays for use in the present invention include fuller s earth a clay material having high natural adsorptive powers which is usually composed largely of the clay mineral attapulgite with some montmorillonite. kaolin a clay material being mainly constituted of the mineral kaolinite, and bentonite a clay containing appreciable amounts of the clay mineral montmorillonite and usually having some magnesium and iron associated therewith. The halogen component of the inorganic halides and oxyhalides utilized in the present invention is chlorine, bromine or iodine. The order of preference for these halogens is the order of the boiling points of the resultant aluminum halide formed, with the halogen with the corresponding lowest boiling point being preferred namely chlorine bromine iodine. Useful inorganic halides and oxyhalides include SiC.1 PCl3, TiC14, and CrO2C12. The temperature at which the de aluminization is practised must be high enough to effect removal through vaporization of the aluminum halide formed. Minimum c temperatures to effect this vaporization depend on which halogen component is used. The following table Table 1 gives suitable temperature ranges for the de aluminization process of the present invention. Table 1 Temperature Ranges, OC Halogen Prefered More PreferedChlorine 140 760 180 600Bromine 150 800 260 700Iodine 250 800 380 700 Thus to volatilize A12C16 a temperature of at least about 1400C is required to volatilizeA12Br6 a temperature of at least about 1500C is required and to volatilize A12I6 a temperature of at least about 2500C is required. The following reaction between aluminum as Al2 03 and SiC14 typifies the novel process of the instant invention EMI6.1 The removal of Al, especially from zeolites, tends to give greater stability. It is speculated that the non halogen component of the halide or oxyhalide is deposited at the site previously occupied by the aluminum, in which case the invention would lead to enhanced stabilization since the vacancy left by the Al is filled with another atom or molecule. Furthermore, this method can be used to introduce different atoms into the aluminosilicate structure, thus modifying catalytic function. The improved characteristics of aluminosilicates treated in accordance with this invention, particularly those relating to increased SiO2 A1203 mole ratios and hydrothermal stability, renders them particularly attractive for application in a number of processes, as ion exchange media, catalysts or catalyst supports in the conversion of organic compounds, particularly hydrocarbons. Exemplary of hydrocarbon conversion systems in which these compositions are particularly suitable are hydrocracking cracking hydrofining, e.g., desulfurization and denitrogenation isomerization polymerization alkylation reforming hydrogenation dehydrogenation and the like.Typical catalytic applications of such compositions is in the conversion of hydrocarbons by hydrofining and hydrocracking in which case the described aluminosilicates should contain a catalytically active amount of hydrogenation component such as the Group VI or Group VIII metals, oxides and sulfides. By using members of Groups IB, IIB, IV, V, VI and VIII with said aluminosilicates, other reactions can be carried out such as CO hydrogenation and oxidation hydrocarbon oxidation, halogenation and nitration and olefin hydration, merely to name a few.It is also preferable when employing these aluminosilicates as catalysts or catalyst supports to render them in the form of relatively stable aggregates, e.g. pellets, tablets, extrudates and the like. The use of an added binder composition is usually preferred to improve the structural properties of the resultant aggregate. The binder compositions most commonly employed for aluminosilicates of this nature comprise predominantly alumina, certain forms of alumina being particularly preferred. The following examples will serve to illustrate the invention without limiting same. Example 1 This example illustrates the preparation of aHZSM 5 zeolite with a silica to alumina mole ratio of about 40. A sodium silicate solution was prepared by mixing 8.4 parts water and 14.4 parts sodium silicate 28.7 wt SiO2, 8.9 wt Na20, 62.4 H20 followed by addition of 0.04 parts Daxad 27 W.R. Grace Chem.Co. . The solution was cooled to approximately 1SaC. An acid solution was prepared by adding 1 part aluminum sulfate 17.2 wt A1203 to 8.6 parts water followed by .96 parts sulfuric acid 93 wt H2S04 and 0.6 parts NaCl. These solutions were mixed in an agitated vessel while 2.1 parts of NaCl and 0.4 parts H20 were added.The gel molar ratios expressed as oxides are the following SiO2 A12 0 40.6 Na2O Al 203 52.1 An organic solution was prepared by adding 0.8 parts n propyl bromide and 1.6 parts methyl ethyl ketone to 1.0 parts tri n propylamine and added to the gel. The mixture was reacted at 2200F without agitation for 6 hours, 151 hrs. with severe agitation and at 3200F with severe agitation for 3 hours. The zeolite slurry product was diluted with 4 5 parts water per part slurry and 0.0002 parts of flocculent Rohm Haas Primafloc C 7 per part slurry, allowed to settle and supernatant liquid was drawn off.The settled solids were reslurried to the original volume of the preceding step with water and 0.00005 parts of flocculent per part slurry. After settling, the aqueous phase was decanted. This procedure was repeated until the decant supernatant liquid was chlorine free. The washed zeolite was then filtered, dried and identified asZSM 5 having a silica alumina mole ratio of at least 12 i.e. about 40, and a constraint index of between 1 and 12 i.e., about 8.3. The dried zeolite product was calcined in flowing N2 for 3 hours at 5380C then ion exchanged twice with 1N NH4N03 solution 5 parts NH4NO3 solution l part zeolite for 1 hour at ambient temperature and dried at about 1200C. Example 2 The HZSM 5 zeolite prepared according to the procedure of Example 1 was treated with 250 torr SiC14 at 5320C in a transport reactor. The use of a transport reactor is described by H. Schafer in CHEMICAL TRANSPORTREACTIONS, Academic Press, N.Y., 1964. The de aluminization of this zeolite is demonstrated below inTable 2. TABLE 2Time, hr Wt. A1203 S102 de aluminization A1203 0 3.89 39.4 0 24 5.4 3.87 41.1 0.5 94 0.9 1.65 93.7 57.6 123 0.2 1.54 99.7 60.4 EXAMPLE 3 This example illustrates the preparation of aHZSM 5 zeolite with a silica to alumina mole ratio of about 70. A sodium solution was prepared by mixing 16 parts water and 27.7 parts sodium silicate 28.7 wt SiO2, 8.9 wt Na2O, 62.4 H20 . The solution was cooled to approximately 150C. An acid solution was prepared by adding 1 part aluminum sulfate 17.2 wt A1203 to 16.4 parts water followed by 2.4 parts sulfuric acid 93 wt H2S04 and 1.2 parts NaCl. These solutions were mixed in an agitated vessel while 3.9 parts of NaCI were added. The gel molar ratios expressed as oxides are the following SiO2 A1203 78.4 Na2O A1203 3 49.9 An organic solution was prepared by adding 1.6 parts n propyl bromide and 3.1 parts methyl ethyl ketone to 1.9 parts tri n propylamine. After the gel was heated to about 950C, agitation was reduced and the organic solution was added above the gel. This mixture was held at about 95 1100C for 14 hours, then agitation increased and the temperature was increased to about 150 160 C and then held there until crytallization was complete. Unreacted organics were removed by flashing and the remaining contents cooled. The zeolite slurry product was diluted with 4 5 parts water per part slurry, allowed to settle and supernatant liquid was drawn off. The settled solids were reslurried to the original volume of the preceding step with water. After settling, the aqueous phase was decanted. This procedure was repeated until the sodium level of the zeolite was less than 1.0 wt . The washed zeolite was then filtered, dried and identified as ZSM 5 having a silica alumina mole ratio of at least 12 i.e., about 70, and a constraint index between 1 and 12 i.e., about 8.3. EXAMPLE 4 The HZSM 5 zeolite prepared according to the procedure of Example 3 was treated with 250 torr SiC14 at 5400C in a transport reactor. Increase in the silica to alumina mole ratio is shown in Table 3 below. Table 3 Silica to AluminaHours on Stream Mole ratio 0 70 48 218 314 784As can be seen from Table 3, after about 300 hours there was greater than a tenfold increase in the silica to alumina mole ratio. EXAMPLE 5 This example demonstrates directly the reaction of aluminum as A1203 and SiC14. A sample of gamma Al2O3 from American Cyanamid Aero. Cat. was treated at about 5400C in a transport reactor. After 71 hours the treated material was analyzed to be 13.2 SiO2, while the sublimed material was analyzed as 36.9 Al2O3. EXAMPLE 6 A sample of H mordenite Zeolon series, NortonCompany, SiO2 A1203 12.2 was treated at about 5400C in a transport reactor for a period for one week with about 750 torr SiC14. Analysis of the treated material revealed a 20.2 de aluminization.