# Polymer concrete compositions and their use in preparing articles.

## Abstract
The invention provides polymer concrete composi tions comprising 1 from 3 to 15 by weight of an unsaturated polyester or vinyl ester composition which contains a freeradical initiator, and 2 from 85 to 97 by weight of an aggregate composition containing 5 to 50 by weight of fly ash based on the aggregate composition, at least part of the balance being sand and the use of such composi tions in preparing cured moulded articles. Such articles may be for example blocks or pipes formed from the com position alone or they may be for example metal pipes internally and or externally coated with the composition.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A curable polymer concrete composition comprising 1 from 3 to 15 by weight of an unsaturated polyester or vinyl ester resin composition which contains a free radical initiator, and 2 from 85 to 97 by weight of an aggregate composition containing 5 to 50 by weight of fly ash based on the aggregate composition, at least part of the balance being sand. 2. A composition of claim 1, wherein the free radical initiator forms from 1 to 15 by weight of the unsaturated polyester or vinyl ester resin composition. 3. A composition of claim 1 or 2, wherein the vinyl ester resin is prepared by esterifying an epoxy resin containing at least one vicinal epoxy group in the molecule with an ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acid. 4. A composition of claim 3, wherein the epoxy resin is a glycidyl polyether of a polyhydric phenol. 5. A composition of claim 4, wherein the epoxy resin is a glycidyl polyether of 2, 2 bis 1 hydroxyphenyl propane. 6. A composition of claim 3, 4 or 5, wherein the ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acid is a monocarboxylic acid. 7. A composition of claim 6, wherein the monocarboxylic acid is acrylic or methacrylic acid. 8. A composition of claim 6 or 7, wherein the vinyl ester resin has been further modified by reaction with a polycarboxylic acid anhydride. 9. A composition of claim 1, wherein the unsaturated polyester is prepared by esterifying a glycol with a polycarboxylic acid or acid anhydride. 10. A composition of claim 9, wherein the polycarboxylic acid is orthophthalic or isophthalic acid. 11. A composition of any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein the polyester or vinyl ester resin composition contains styrene, the weight ratio of polyester or vinyl ester resin to styrene being in the range 80 20 to 50 50. 12. A composition of any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein of the non fly ash balance of the aggregate composition, at least 35 by weight is sand of particle size less than 1.19 mm. 13. A composition of any of claims 1 to 12, wherein the freeradical initiator is a peroxide. 14. A composition of claim 13, wherein the peroxide is methyl ethyl ketone peroxide or cumene hydroperoxide. 15. A process for trepsring an article which comprises mechanically mixing together components of a curable polymer concrete composition according to any one of claims 1 to 14, moulding the resulting composition, alone or in association with a substrate, and curing the moulded composition at atemperature in the range 0 to 2000C. 16. An article comprising a cured moulded composition according to any one of claims 1 to 14, alone or in association with a substrate.

## Description
POLYMER CONCRETE COMPOSITIONS AND THEIR USE IN PREPARING ARTICLES This invention relates to polymer concrete compositions and their use in preparing articles. The use of polymeric materials in concrete formulations is well known. One common composite material is called polymerimpregnated concrete PIC wherein hardened portland cement concrete is impregnated with a liquid monomeric material which is subsequently polymerized in situ. These materials have remarkable durability and resistance against salts and the like which make their use especially attractive for concrete pipe, desalting plants, tunnel support linings and bridge decks. Another system is a polymer portland cement concrete PPCC which is produced by adding a monomeric or polymeric material to a fresh portland cement concrete mixture which is subsequently cured and polymerizedlafter placement.It will be appreciated that both the Pit and PPCC systems are hydraulic systems, i.e., they require the use of water to cure the portland cement. Accordingly, another system has more recently been discovered which is called polymer concrete PC which contains little or no cement and no water. ThePC is a composite formed by polymerizing a monomeric material with aggregate gravel, sand, etc. . The resit most often employed in present PC compositions are the so called acrylate resins, especially methyl methacrylate. These acrylate resins are relatively inexpensive, however, they suffer a multitude of serious shortcomings.For example, they exhibit high volatility, high toxicity, high flammability, and are explosive. More importantly, they exhibit high shrinkage which severely limits their useful life in some applications. It has now been found that a number of the serious environmental shortcomings toxicity, volatility, etc. can be eliminated by the replacement of the methacrylate resins with polyester or vinyl ester resins in combination with an aggregate composition containing fly ash. According to the present invention there is provided a curable polymer concrete composition comprising 1 from 3 to 15 by weight of an unsaturated polyester or vinyl ester resin composition which contains a free radical initiator, and 2 from 85 to 97 by weight of an aggregate composition containing 5 to 50 by weight of fly ash based on the aggregate camposition, at least part of the balance being sand. The vinyl ester resins which are preferred for use in compositions of the invention are those prepared by esterifying an epoxy resin containing at least one vicinal epoxy group in the molecule with an ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acid. Suitable epoxy resins containing at least one vicinal epoxy group, i.e. at least oneEMI2.1 group, may be saturated or unsaturated, aliphatic, cycloaliphatic, aromatic or heterocyclic and may be substituted if desired with non interfering substituents such as halogen atoms, hydroxyl groups and ether radicals. They may also be monomeric or polymeric. For clarity, many of the polyepoxides and particularly those of the polymeric type are described in terms of epoxy equivalent values. The meaning of this expression is described in U.S. Patent No. 2,633,458. The polyepoxides used in the present process are those having an epoxy equivalency greater than 1.0. Various examples of liquid polyepoxides that may be used in the process of the invention are given in U.S. Patent No.2,633,458, and other suitable polyepoxides are disclosed inU.S. Patent No. 3,377,406 and U.S. Patent No. 3,420,914. Preferred polyepoxides are the glycidyl polyethers of polyhydric phenols and polyhydric alcohols, especially the glycidyl polyethers of 2,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane.Typically such glycidyl polyethers of 2,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane have an average molecular weight between about 300 and 3,000 and an epoxide equivalent weight between about 140 and 2,000. Other suitable epoxy compounds include those compounds derived from polyhydric phenols and having at least one vicinal epoxy group wherein the carbon to carbon bonds within the six membered ring are saturated. Examples of such saturated epoxy resins are described in U.S. Patent No. 3,336,241.Preferred saturated epoxy resins are the hydrogenated glycidyl ethers of 2,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane, sometimes called the diglycidyl ethers of 2,2 bis 4 cyclohexanol propane. The ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acid used to esterify the polyepoxide may be aliphatic, cycloaliphatic or aromatic and may be monocarboxylic or polycarboxylic. Particularly preferred acids to be utilized comprise ethylenically unsaturated acids, such as acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, crotonic acid, alpha phenylacrylic acid, alphacyclohexylacrylic acid, maleic acid, alpha chloromaleic acid, tetrahydrophthalic acid, itaconic acid, citraconic, fumaric acid, cyanoacrylic acid and methoxyacrylic acid and partial esters of polycarboxylic acids, and particularly the alkyl1 alkenyl, cycloalkyl and cycloalkenyl esters of polycarboxylic acids, such as allyl hydrogen maleate, butyl hydrogen maleate, allyl hydrogen phthalate, allyl hydrogen succinate, allyl hydrogen fumarate, butenyl hydrogen tetrahydrophthalate, cyclohexenyl hydrogen maleate, and cyclohexyl hydrogen tetrahydrophthalate and mixtures thereof. Monocarboxyli c ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acids such as acrylic or methacrylic acid are particularly preferred. Processes for the esterification of epoxy resins with ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acids are described inU.S. Patents Nos. 3,377,406 and 3,420,914. The vinyl ester resins thereby produced will vary from liquids to solid resins, and will generally possess free hydroxy groups, ethylenic groups and epoxide groups. Some or all of any pendant hydroxy groups on the vinyl ester resins may, if desired, be reacted with an acid anhydride, preferably a polycartoxylic acid anhydride such as maleic anhydride. Any known unsaturated polyester may in principle be employed in the polyester compositions. The basic technology for the manufacture of unsaturated polyesters is well established. Simply, such unsaturated polyesters may be prepared by either the fusion or solvent process wherein saturated and or un saturated polycarboxylic acids and or anhydrides are polyesterified e.g. with polyhydric alcohols glycols or alkylene oxides. Suitable carboxyl containing compounds include the saturated and unsaturated aliphatic, aromatic and cycloaliphatic polycarboxylic acids and polycarboxylic acid anhydrode, which compounds may be substituted e.g. with halogen atoms. Typical such carboxyl containing compounds are maleic acid, maleic anhydride, crotonic acid, itaconic anhydride, tetrahydrophthalic acid, fumaric acid, phthalic anhydride i sophthali c anhydri de, terephthalic anhydride, hexahydro phthalic anhydride, pyromellitic anhydride, methylated maleic adducts of phthalic anhydride, dodecenyl succinic anhydride, di chloromalei c anhydri de, tetrachlorophthalic anhydride, chlorendic anhydride, pyromellitic dianhydride, dimethylmaleic anhydride, n butylmaleic anhydride, phenylmaleic anhydride and bromophenylmaleic anhydride. Suitable polyhydric compounds include the alcohols, phenols, glycols, alkylene oxides, as well as mixtures and adducts thereof. Typical polyhydric compounds, among many others are glycerol, Bisphenol A, pentaerythritol, ethylene glycol, propylene glycol, and neopentyl glycol. The unsaturated polyesters may be further modified as is customary e.g. by reaction with other monomers. Suitable unsaturated polyesters may be made by any known technique wherein polyesterification of polycarboxylic compounds with polyhydric compounds is achieved, with or without azeotropic distillation, using either the batch fusion, batch solvent or continuous process. It has been found, however, that polyesters having a phenolic component, i.e., a bisphenol as a reactant, are very useful because of the improvement in heat deflection temperatures. Preferred unsaturated polyesters are prepared by esterifying a glycol with a polycarboxylic acid or acid anhydride.Advantageously the polycarboxylic acid is orthophthalic or isophthalic acid. The unsaturated polyester and vinyl ester resins may be mixed with one or more compatible unsaturated monomers.Examples of such monomers include, among others, aromatic compounds such as styrene, alpha methylstyrene, dichlorostyrene, vinyl naphthalene, and vinyl phenol, unsaturated esters, such as acrylic and methacrylic esters, vinyl acetate, vinyl benzoate, vinyl chloroacetate, vinyl laurate, unsaturated acids, such as acrylic and alpha alkylacrylic acids, butenoic acid, and allylbenzoic acid, and vinylbenzoic acid, halides, such as vinyl chloride and vinylidene chloride, nitriles, such as acrylonitrile and methacrylonitrile, diolefins, such as butadiene, isoprene and methylpentadiene, esters of polycarboxylic acids, such as diallyl phthalate, divinyl succinate, diallyl maleate, divinyl adipate, and dichloroallyl tetrahydrophthalate, and mixtures thereof. In general the weight ratio of unsaturated polyester or vinyl ester resin to unsaturated monomer will be in the range 100 0 to 20 80, preferably 95 5 to 30 70 and advantageously 80 20 to 50 50. Especially preferred unsaturated comonomers are the aromatic unsaturated compounds such as styrene, vinyl toluene and divinyl benzene. In one preferred embodiment of the invention, the polyester or vinyl ester resin composition contains styrene, the weight ratio of polyester or vinyl ester resin to styrene being in the range 80 20 to 50 50. The free radical initiator may conveniently be an organic peroxide or an azo compound. Examples of such free radical initiators include organic peroxides, such as benzoyl peroxide, tertiary butyl hydroperoxide, ditertiary butyl peroxide, hydrogen peroxide, potassium persulphate, methyl cyclohexyl peroxide, cumene hydroperoxide, acetyl benzoyl peroxide, tetralin hydroperoxide, phenylcyclohexane hydroperoxide, tertiary butylisopropylbenzene hydroperoxide, tertiary butylperacetate, tertiary butylacetate, tertiary butyl perbenzoate, ditertiary amyl perphthalate, ditertiary peradipate, tertiary amyl percarbonate, and mixtures thereof and azo compounds such as 2,2 azo bis isobutyronitrile, dimethyl 2,2 azo bisisobutyrate, 2,21 azo bis 2, 1 dimethylvaleronitrile , and 2,2 azo bis isobutylaslide.Particularly preferred catalysts include the diaroyl peroxides, tertiary alkyl hydroperoxides, alkyl peresters of percarboxylic acids and particularly those of the above noted groups which contain no more than 18 carbon atoms per molecule and have a decomposition temperature below 1250C. The amount of free radical initiator will be a curing amount, conveniently from about 1 to about 15 by weight based on the unsaturated polyester or vinyl ester composition. Preferably the free radical initiator is a peroxide, advantageously methyl ethyl ketone peroxide or cumene hydroperoxide. If desired the unsaturated polyester or vinyl ester resin composition may additionally contain one or more modifiers such as driers e.g. cobalt naphthenate , plasticizers, stabilizers, extenders, oils, resins, tars, asphalts, pigments, reinforcing agents or thixotropic agents. Fly ash is derived as a by product of the firing of coal.It will be appreciated that because of the differences in coal sources, coal compositions, as well as coal firing equipment and techniques and firing practices in the industry, the physical properties, chemical compositions and pozzolanic activity of the fly ashes will vary markedly. The extent and rate of pozzolanic reaction involving fly ashes is apparently a function of several factors, including the quantity of lime, cement, total silica and or alumina in the fly ash. For example, DOT report No. FHWA IP 76 16, states that fly ashes having large amounts of free lime as indicated by CaO content tend to be very reactive and probably exhibit some degree of self hardening. U.S. Patent No. 4,210,457 contains details of typical chemical analyses of a number of types of fly ash.While the activity of the several fly ashes varied somewhat, no fly ash was found that was inoperable in the present compositions. It will be appreciated by the man skilled in the art that he should vary the content and the source of the fly ash to optimize the properties of the curable polymer concrete compositions commensurate with his end use objectives. The aggregate composition will contain 5 to 50 by weight of fly ash. In preferred embodiments of the invention, aggregate compositions having fly ash contents in the range 10 to 25 by weight of the aggregate compositions have been found to give very good results. At least part of the balance of the aggregate composition is sand. It is generally preferred for the sand to be sand derivedfrOm the crushing of silica materials such as rock.In other words, the sand has been obtained as a fractured product and exhibits an irregular and somewhat sharp feel.This sand is required in conventional hydraulic concretes and mortars to impart the necessary structural strength. The socalled beach sand which has been uniformly rounded by the wind and or water action, in general, produces poor physical properties in hydraulic concretes and conventional PC compositions however, such sands, while not as good as fractured sand, can be used, alone or in blends with fractured sands, in the present compositions to give good physical properties not exhibited by conventional PC compositions. In mechanical analysis of soil, sand,according to international classification, has a size between 0.02 mm and 2.0 mm see definition of sand in Chambers Dictionary ofScience and Technology , Edinburgh 1976 . In preferred aggregate compositions, of the non fly ash balance of the aggregate composition, at least 35 by weight is sand of particle size less than 1.19 mm. In addition to sand and fly ash the aggregate composition may include other materials such as glass fibres or mats metal fibres, staples, bars, mats or mesh polymeric materials such as rubber and plastics, including expanded polymers expanded mica and crushed stone and gravel components having particle sizes greater than those of sand i.e. greater than 200 mm e.g. up to about 3.8 cm . Thus for some structural applications gravel components greater than those of sand may form up to 50 , preferably up to 25 , by weight of the aggregate composition. For light weight and insulating materials the aggregate composition may advantageously contain up to 25 by weight of an insulating material such as expanded mica. For impact resistant cured polymer concrete compositions the aggregate composition preferably includes metal fibres, staples, mats or mesh, e.g. up to 10 by weight of steel fibres or staples. The invention also provides a process for preparing an article which comprises mechanically mixing together components of a curable polymer concrete composition of the invention, moulding the resulting composition, alone or in association with a substrate, and curing the moulded composition at a temperature in the range OOC to 2000C, preferably 200C to 1000 C. Further in accordance with the invention there is provided an article comprising a cured moulded polymer concrete composition of the invention, alone or in association with a substrate. Such articles include pipes, metallic or nonmetallic pipes coated internally and or externally with a cured polymer concrete composition, laminated structures, building panels, armour plating, bridge deck and dam and spillway overlays. The invention will be further understood from the following illustrative examples in which unless otherwise indicated parts and percentages are by weight, and mesh sizes are U.S. standard sieve metric conversions in brackets . Vinyl Ester Resin A is a vinyl ester resin styrene blend containing 62.5 parts by weight of a vinyl ester prepared by reacting one mole of a glycidyl polyether of 2,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane having an epoxy equivalent weight of about 375 and an average molecular weight of about 920 with two moles of methacrylic acid in the presence of an esterification catalyst, and 37.5 parts by weight of styrene. Polyester A is an isophthalic glycol polyester Reichold, Polylite 31 Jl39 POLYLITE is a registered Trade Mark .EXAMPLE I This example illustrates the fabrication of pipe using a vinyl ester resin based polymer concrete composition. 10,306 grams of flint course silica sand, 2,576 grams of fly ash 17 w were blended together. To 2,098 grams ofVinyl Ester Resin A were added 6.3 grams of cobalt naphthenate and the mixture thoroughly mixed and then 42.0 grams of methyl ethyl ketone peroxide added and thoroughly mixed. The catalyzed resin was then added to the aggregate blend and the resulting slurry mixed for 3 to 4 minutes. The slurry was then poured into a hopper which gravity feeds into an auger screw delivery system which displaced the polymer concrete material into a waxed cardboard mould one foot long, having an outside diameter of twelve inches 30 cm and an inside diameter of ten inches 25 cm wall thickness of one inch 2.5 cm .The mould was mounted between two flat vertical plates, grooved for the cardboard mould, which were connected to each other by equal length rods and driven by a variable speed motor. After the polymer concrete composition was displaced into the cardboard drum, the drum was revolved at approximately 300 rpm for 60 minutes. The mould was then removed from the grooved flat plates and the pipe stripped from the mould. The pipe was then post cured at about 930C 20coy for one hour, after which it was removed and allowed to cool. The pipe was tested according to ASTM C 497, External Load Crushing Strength Test by theThree Edge 3earing Method .The crushing strength for the polymer concrete pipe averaged 5600 pounds per linear foot 8330 kg m , which is almost three times the crushing strength of a concrete pipe having the same diameter and wall thickness. EXAMPLE II This example illustrates the resistance to projectiles of vinyl ester resin based polymer concrete compositions. The procedure of Example I was repeated wherein a polymer concrete composition containing 85 aggregate, which contained 80 sand and 20 fly ash, and 15 Vinyl Ester Resin A containing 2 by weight of MEKP based on the Vinyl Ester was prepared. To this composition were added 6 by weight based on the composition of steel deformed end fibres contentional concrete hooked end staples having an average size and gauge of 30 mm long and 0.4 mm diameter and the reinforced mixture moulded into blocks 3 x 6 x 12 7.5 cm x 15 cm x 30 cm and cured at 20 C for 60 minutes and then postcured at 950C for 30 minutes. The cured blocks were taken to a firing range.At 25 yards 23 metres , a 0.225 high velocity rifle bullet and a 0.308 NATO projectile were fired at the blocks. The blocks repelled both high velocity projectiles thus illustrating the superior impact resistance and anti fragmentation properties of the instant polymer concrete compositions. The 0.223 and 0.308 bullets would either pass through conventional concrete or severely fragment the concrete. It will be appreciated that the 0.308 projectile will pass through two 1 2 inch 1.25 cm thick steel plates. The instant reinforced polymer concrete blocks were barely chipped on the surface by either projectile.EXAMPLE III This example illustrates the use of non fractured sand in vinyl ester resin based polymer concrete compositions. The procedures of Example I were essentially repeated wherein various polymer concrete compositions were prepared using contaminated rounded sand obtained from Saudi Arabia, as well as conventional fractured sand. The respective compositions are as follows all compositions contained 2 by weight of methyl ethyl ketone per oxide MEKP and 0.5 by weight of cobalt naphthenate based on the weight of Vinyl Ester Resin A Composition Parts by weight Composition A not in accordance with the invention Vinyl Ester A 15 Aggregate a Saudi Dune Sand 50 71 100 mesh 0.149 mm 22 j 50 mesh 0.297 mm 7 i 30 mesh 0.59 mm b Saudi Coarse River Gravel 50 42 um 12 mesh 1.68 mm 43 um 30 mesh 0.59 mm 15 um 50 mesh 0.297 mm Composition B not in accordance with the invention Vinyl Ester A 16 Aggregate Sand um 17 84 9 40 mesh 0.42 mm 41 50 mesh 0.297 mm 31 70 mesh 0.210 mm 14 100 mesh 0.11 9 mm 5 passing 100 mesh 0.149 mm Composition C Vinyl Ester A 10 Aggregate 90 a 50 50 Saudi Blend of Composition A b Fly ash 20 Composition D Vinyl Ester A 14 Aggregate 86 a Sand um 17 80 b Fly ash 20 The above compositions were cured at room temperature for 1 hour and then post cured at 95 0C for 30 minutes. The flexural and compressive strength of the cured compositions were then determined and the data are presented in Table I. TABLE IEMI13.1 tb Com SEP Compressive SEP Flexural tb position SEP strength, SEP psi SEP strength, SEP psi tb A SEP comparative SEP 10,860 SEP 3,460 tb SEP 7.49 SEP x SEP 107 SEP Pa SEP 2.39x SEP 107 SEP Pa tb B SEP comparative SEP 13,880 SEP 3,530 tb SEP 9.58 SEP x SEP 107 SEP Pa SEP 2.44 SEP x SEP 107 SEP Pa tb C SEP 13,140 SEP 3,950 tb SEP 9.07 SEP x SEP 107 SEP Pa SEP 2.73 SEP x SEP 107 SEP Pa tb D SEP 17,740 SEP 7 SEP 5,760 tb SEP 12.24 SEP x SEP 107 SEP Pa SEP 3.97 SEP x SEP 107 SEP Pa tb EXAMPLE IV This example illustrates the reduced shrinkage exhibited by vinyl ester resin based polymer concrete compositions. Sand gravel mixture used in the compositions had the following composition 35 passed 3 8 retained num 4 9.25 mm to 4.76 mm 16 passed num 4, retained 8 4.76 mm to 2.38 mm 12.4 passed 8, retained num 16 2.38 mm to 1.19 mm 9.5 passed i 16, retained 30 1.19 mm to 0.59 mm 6.9 passed iF 35, retained num 50 0.50 mm to 0.297 mm 5.48 passed 50, retained num 100 0.297 mm to 0.149 mm 3.8 passed 100 0.149 mm Slab samples approximately 3 x 9 x 18 7.5 cm x 22.5 cm x 45 cm were prepared and cured at ambient temperature for 1 hour from the following composition Composition Parts by weight Vinyl Ester A 6 Sand 82.7 Fly ash 11.3 Cumene hydroperoxide 3 Cobalt naphthenate. o.6 by weight based on Vinyl Ester A The procedure was essentially repeated wherein an equivalent amount of neat methylmethacrylate was substituted for Vinyl Ester Resin A. Shrinkage of the cured PC samples was then determined.The data were as follows Shrinkage, Vinyl Ester A 0.15 0.17 Methyl methacrylate 0.5 It is generally considered that the shrinkage should be 0.25 to avoid cracking in PC coatings which are exposed to water, especially hot water. For example, PC compositions which are used in bridge decks, pipe linings, dam spillway overlays, etc. should exhibit a shrinkage of 0.25 to prevent cracking and delamination. EXAMPLE V Vinyl ester resin based polymer concrete compositions were found to be suitable for the following applications 1 pipelinings, especially hot water and chemical pipe linings, 2 tank linings, 3 bridge deck and dam spillway overlays, 4 armour coatings, 5 foundation pads and 6 wall panels. The instant compositions are very suitable for use as interior and or exterior linings for metallic as well as non metallic cement concrete, plastic, resin, glass, etc. pipe. The pipe may be fabricated by well known techniques wherein a substrate carrier such as a metal pipe is coated with the present composition and cured. Of course, the substrate layer may be coated with a composition such as a resin, an epoxy resin, or it may be treated with one or more compositions to enhance the adhesion of the instant vinyl ester polymer concrete compositions to the substrate. Also, one or more layers, i.e., a laminated structure, may be employed. For example, a metallic pipe may be coated with a glass, plastic and or resinous coating before the application of the instant vinyl ester polymer concrete compositions. Accordingly, substrate as used herein is deemed to mean any layer, however thin, including coating layers, other than a layer of the instant polymer concrete composition.The additional use of a reinforcement material, which may be metallic or non metallic, in the polymer concrete is useful, for example, glass or plastic nylon fibres, webs or mats may be incorporated therein.EXAMPLE VI Related improved results are achieved when the vinyl ester is a 50 50 blend of vinyl ester and styrene, said vinyl ester being prepared by first reacting 2 moles of methacrylic acid and one mole of a diglycidyl polyether of 2,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane having a WPE of about 180, an average molecular weight of about 360 and then esterifying about 10 of the secondary hydroxyl groups with maleic anhydride.EXAMPLE VII This example illustrates the preparation of polyesterbased polymer concrete compositions with both non fractured sand and fractured sand. The following compositions were prepared by mixing the various components together and test speciments prepared by curing at room temperature for 1 hour and post curing at 950C for 30 minutes all compositions contained 2 by weight of methyl ethyl ketone peroxide MEKP and 0.4 by weight of cobalt naphthenate, based of the weight of Polyester A .. Composition Parts by weight Composition AA not in accordance with the invention Polyester A 17 Aggregate 83 a Saudi Dune Sand 50 71 100 mesh 0.149 mm 22 X 50 mesh 0.297 mm 7 num 30 mesh 0.59 mm b Saudi Coarse River Gravel 50 42 12 mesh 1.68 mm 43 um 30 mesh 0.59 mm 15 . 50 mesh 0.297 mm Composition AB not in accordance with the invention Polyester A 17 Aggregate Sand 17 83 9 40 mesh 0.42 mm 41 50 mesh 0.297 mm 31 70 mesh 0.210 mm 14 100 mesh 0.149 mm 5 passing 100 mesh 0.149 mm Composition AC Polyester A 14 Aggregate 86 a 50 50 Saudi Blend of Composition AA 80 b Fly ash 20 Composition AD Polyester A 14 Aggregate 86 a Sand num 17 80 b Fly ash 20 The above compositions were cured at room temperature for 1 hour and then post cured at 950C for 30 minutes. The flexural and compressive strength of the cured compositions were then determined and the data are presented in Table II. TABLE IIEMI17.1 tb Com SEP Compressive SEP Flexural tb position SEP strength, SEP psi SEP strength, SEP psi tb AA SEP comparative SEP 9,300 SEP 2,610 tb SEP 6.40 SEP x SEP 107 SEP SEP Pa SEP 1.80 SEP x SEP 107 SEP Pa tb AB SEP comparative SEP 9,860 SEP 2,720 tb SEP 6.80 SEP x SEP 107 SEP SEP Pa SEP 1.88 SEP x SEP 10 SEP Pa tb AC SEP 11,390 SEP 3,050 tb SEP 7.86 SEP x SEP 107 SEP Pa SEP 2.10 SEP x SEP 107 SEP Pa tb AD SEP 12, SEP 840 SEP SEP 3,800 tb SEP 8.86 SEP x SEP to7 SEP Pa SEP 2.62 SEP x SEP 107 SEP Pa tb The data clearly indicate that fly ash increased the compressive and flexural strengths of the polyester based polymer concrete both when contaminated rounded sand was employed and when a good fractured sand was employed. EXAMPLE VIII When Composition AD is applied as a pipe lining via centrifugal casting methods and cured, the resulting lining exhibits good chemical resistance.EXAMPLE IX The procedures of Example VII were essentially repeated wherein Polyester A is replaced with an equivalent amount of the following polyesters 1 Bisphenol A based polyester containing 50 by weight of styrene Diamond Shamrock, DION 6694XP 2 DION 6315 Diamond Shamrock 3 DION 6308 Diamond Shamrock 4 Orthophthalic glycol polyester Reichold, Polylite 31 006 Related results are obtained in each instance.EXAMPLE X The impact resistance is improved by the addition of metallic reinforcement such as metal staples to the composition of Example VII. Likewise, the replacement of about 20 of the sand with fractured gravel improved the impact resistance.