# A method and installation for anaerobic fermentation of liquid manure.

## Abstract
A method an installation for anaerobic fermentation of a liquid suspension of an organic substance and the production of methane gas therefrom, comprises a con tinuous circulation of supplied substance mixed with active sludge in a treatment chamber composed of two concentric vessels 16, 17 . The inner vessel 16 is filled with contact elements and constitutes an upflow reactor with a bottom inlet for the mixture which flows over the open upper edge of this vessel 16 into the outer vessel 17 constituting a down stream reactor. A pump 31 maintains the circulation of the mixture and a heat ex changer 40 keeps the temperature at an appropriate level. The produced methane gas is discharged at the top 23 of the treatment chamber.

## Claims
Claims 1. A method for anaerobic fermentation of a liquid suspension of an organic substance and the production of methane gas therefrom, the suspension the influent being mixed with active sludge and kept in movement, while furthermore the produced gas is separated and the liquid thus produced the effluent is discharged for possible subsequent treatment, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the suspension is supplied to a collecting point for the active sludge, and this mixture of organic substance and sludge is continuously recirculated through at least two treatment chambers disposed in series, an upwardly directed flow occurring through the first chamber in the presence of a close assembly of contact media thus causing a strong turbulence to be produced in the mixture, while furthermore a downwardly directed flow flows through the second chamber, which serves as a precipitation vessel provided with an outlet means for the effluent. 2. A method according to claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that, at a point located before the first upflow reactor, basic substances are added to the mixture prepared of suspension and active sludge, in the event that the pH value drops below 6,5. 3. A method according to claim 2, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that glucose is aso added to the mixture prepared, so as to reduce the fermentation time. 4. A method according to any one of the preceding claims, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the recirculation of the mixture is continued until the effluent can be subsequently treated in a flocculator followed by a clarifier. 5. A method according to any one of the preceding claims, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the mixture passes through several standard installations so called units which are connected in series and each composed of two treatment chambers in which the mixture is recirculated. 6. A bio gas producing installation, adapted to carry out the method according to any one of the preceding claims, comprising a treatment chamber having an inlet means for influent and an outlet means for the gas and the effluent, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the treatment chamber is composed of two concentric vessels 16, 17 , the central vessel being formed by an upwardly diverging cone 18 which is filled with contact media he open upper end of si d cone freely communicating with the outer vessel 17 , whose bottom 24 is provided with an inlet means 20 for the influent and whose top is provided with a gas discharge means 23 , the outer vessel 17 being connected with a standpipe 26, 28 for discharging the effluent, a pump connection 29 being provided between the bottom 24 of the outer vessel 17 and the point of the cone 18 . 7. An installation according to claim 6, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the pump connection 29 s d by a suction line 30 which leads to the point of admission 20 for the influent at the bottom 24 of the outer vessel 17 and which is connected to a pump 31 and a pressure line 33 through which the mixture of the organic substance and the active sludge is discharged into the interior of the downwardly directed point 18 of the central vessel 16 , means 35, 36 being provided in said line for measuring the composition and pH of the mixture and for metering substances to be added. 8. An installation according to claim 6 or 7, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the central vessel 16 is at its top provided with a cylindrical skirt 21 forming an overflow edge, and in that the bottom of the outer vessel has a central recessed portion 34 into which extend both the influent inlet means 20 and the suction line 30 . 9. An installation according to any one of claims 6 8, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the contact media located within the central vessel 16 are provided with a coating of active carbon. An at installation according to any one of claims 6 9, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that a heat exchanger 40 is provided, the pump connection 29 comprising a thermostat 39 for measuring the temperature of the circulating mixture, for controlling therewith the heat exchanger so as to compensate for the heat transfer in the concentric vessels 16, 17 resulting from the ambient temperature.

## Description
A method and installation for anaerobic fermentation of liquid manure.The invention relates to a method for anaerobic fermentation of a liquid suspension of an organic substance and the production of methane gas therefrom, the suspension the influent being mixed with active sludge and kept in movement, while furthermore the produced gas is separated and the liquid thus produced the effluent is discharged for possible subsequent treatment.In this known method, the influent passes into a reactor and is, in most cases, stirred so as to obtain ú iiiiiitMr with the active sludge. A temperature of approx. 250 350C is then being applied, so that the organic substance is decomposed by the anaerobic bacteria while simultane ously producing methane gas.Said known method has two important drawbacks, the first one being a low rate of efficiency yielding no more than about 50 of the maximum quantity of gas attainable, the second drawback being the long fermentation time this is the reason why the method described is not yet generally used.It is an object of the present invention to provide a method which eliminates the two aforesaid disadvantages to a considerable extent and which, therefore, in addition to a considerable gas production, results in a substantially accelerated fermentation process.Said objects are attained according to the invention, in that the suspension is supplied to a collecting point for the active sludge, and this mixture of organic substance and sludge is continuously recirculated through at least two treatment chambers disposed in series, an upwardly directed flow occurring through the first chamber in the presence of a close assembly of contact media thus causing a strong turbulence. to be produced in the mixture, while furthermore a downwardly directed flow flows through the second chamber, which serves as a precipitation vessel provided with an outlet means for the effluent.The recirculation of the mixture results in the fermentation to be intensified, the residence time of the suspension within the treatment chambers permitting to be determined by an attunement between the capacity of the treatment chambers on the one hand and the quantity of influent supplied per unit of time on the other hand. After a certain run in period, there arises an equilibrium during which fermentation has entirely or largely occurred, whereupon the effluent can be subjected to an after treatment in a conventional manner. The great efficiency of the process is, to a large extent, due to the considerable surface of the contact media upon which settles a film of an anaerobic bacteria cultures, especially when said contact media are provided with a.carbon surface.This carbon has the property of attracting colloidal particles, while in addition generating some catalytic action.The method according to the invention is preferably carried out in such a manner that, at a point located before the first upflow reactor, basic substances are added to the mixture prepared of suspension and active sludge, in the event that the pH value drops below 6,5. As a basic substance qualifies NaOH or Na CO, 10 aq. In order to have the method proceed efficiently, it is useful for certain substances, to also odd glucose to the mixture prepared so as to reduce the fermentation time. The addition of both the basic substances and the glucose may proceed in the conduit which serves to maintain the mixture circulation. It is favourable when in the method of the invention, the mixture passes through several standard installations which are connec ted in series and each composed of two treatment chambers in which the mixture is the recirculated. This results in two important advantages, i.e. firstly, it reduces to a considerable extent a premature discharge of mix.ture.parts that have not been completely fermented as yet, since each part of the mixture must pass through all treatment units and thus will have sufficient opportunity to attain the optimum degree of fermentation. Secondly, by using several units, the method can be adapted inexpensively to the quantity presented of the mixture to be treated.Consequently, there is no need to manufacture the treatment chambers in all sorts of sizes.The invention is furthermore embodied in a bio gas producing installation adapted. to carry out the aforedescribed method, comprising in a known manner, a treatment chamber having an inlet means for influent and an outlet means for the gas and the effluent.According to the invention, said installation is characterized in that the treatmeni chamber is composed of two concentric vessels, the central vessel being formed by an upwardly diverging cone filled with contact media, the open upper end of said cone freely communicating with the outer vessel which is at the bottom provided with the inlet means for the influent and at the top with a gas discharge means, the outer vessel being connected with a standpipe for discharging the effluent, while a pump connection is provided between the bottom of the outer vessel and the point of the central vessel. In the central vessel, a considerable flow rate is imparted to the liquid mixture, due to the presence of the contact media.As a result thereof, there arises a labyrinth structure having o strong turbulence in the liquid, thus bringing the bacterial culture on the contact media and the organic substance of the mixture into intimate contact with one another. This intensive contact and the optimum mixing of the active sludge with the influent are the cause of the very short decomposition time of the organic material that can be obtained in this installation.The invention will be further explained with reference to the drawing illustrating a complete bio gas producing installation according to the invention and parts thereof.Fig. 1 is a very schematic view of the most important parts of the entire installation Fig. 2 is a vertical, longitudinal sectional view of the bio gas reactor of the installation of Fig. 1 Figs. 3 5 are sectional views taken on lines II II, Ill Ill and IV IV in Fig. 2. The complete installation as shown in Fig. 1 may consist of a number of components known per se, combined with two bio gas reactors 1 and 2 which each form a standard unit to be discussed with reference to figs. 2 5. The complete installation may further comprise a flocculator 3 having a metering pump 4, in which care there occurs in the vessel 3 a flocculation as well as a settling. The sludge settled passes, via a conduit 5, to two sludge ferment.tion columns 6 and 7 provided with a sieve bottom. Through a conduit 9, the effluent is carried from the columns 6 and 7 via a drying tank 8 back to a prestorage chamber 10, to which chamber effluent is also supplied from the flocculator 3 via a conduit 11. The effluent subsequently passes, via a conduit 12, from the chamber 10 to an anaerobic reactor 13 and is subsequently subjected to denitrification in a chamber 14. For the purpose of removing sediment, if any, in the chamber 14, there is provided a return line 15 leading to the prestorage chamber 10. Thus, the effluent as finally obtained can have reached a degree of purity such, as to afford its disposal into an existing sewer system or duct.The method according to the invention proceeds within the reactor units 1 and 2. Such a unit is shown more in detail in fig. 2 and consists of a treatment chamber composed of two concentric vessels 16 and 17. The central vessel 16 is formed by an upwardly diverging cone 18 and a cylindrical part 19. The central vessel 16 is filled with contact media not shown , for example plastics rings.The central vessel 16 freely communicates at its open top with the outer vessel 17, whose bottom is provided with an inlet means 20, to be seen in fig. 5. the top end of vessel 16 is provided with a grate 21, vide fig. 3, for preventing displacement of the contact media. On the vessel 17 there is fitted a bell shaped gas hood or gas bag 22 having an outlet means 23.The outer vessel 17 has a somewhat tapered bottom 24, a pipe 25 being connected thereto which merges into a standpipe 26 leading to a reservoir 27. A second standpipe 28 ensures the maintaining of a certain level of liquid within the reservoir 27, thus providing counterpressure for the overpressure of the bio gas being formed in the hood or bag 22.Between the bottom 24 of the outer vessel 17 and the downwardly directed point of the cone 18 there is provided a pump connection 29. This connection consists of a suction line 30, a pump 31, a main pipe 32, and a shunt 33. Both the inlet means 20 and the line 30 are connected to a central recessed portion 34 of the bottom 24 of the outer vested 17. In the pump connection 29, the measuring means 35 and 36 electrodes are located in the shunt 33 for measuring the composition of the liquid mixture circulating through the reactor vessels 16 and 17. The shunt 33 is provided at bath ends with a shuf off valve 37 I the suction line 30 there are provided metering points 38 very schematically indicated for basic substances soda lye or soda and for glucose C6H1206 . In the uppermost part of the main pipe 32 there is provided a thermostat 3 for u purpose still to be described hereinafte . . Inside thes vessel 17 there is provided a heat exchanger 40 for heating or cooling the mixture present in the reactor as a function of the prevailing ambient temperature. To ensure an optimum operation, it is necessary to maintain a constant temperature inside the reactor at a given level, and this may sometimes require a heating or cooling of the mixture. Controlling the heat exchanger 40 proceeds b means of the thermostat 39 provided in the pump connection 29. In the casing of the vessel 17, in the vicinity of the top, a few measuring devices 41 are also provided for measuring the pH value.Said means are connected to the metering points 38 provided in the suction line 30.As is apparent from the foregoing, the treatment installation as shown in fig. 2 consists of an upflow reactor 16 with fitted therein a filling of plastics rings having a very large contact surface. This reactor 16 is disposed in a downstream precipitation vessel 17, as gas hood or gas bag 22 being mounted on top of the whole, conceivably in conjunction with a foam separator. The pump 31 sucks the liquid to be treated from the deepened portion 34, where also the influent is admitted via the inlet means 20. Subsequently, the pump 31 forcefully pumps the liquid up from below through the upflow reactor 16 and past the plastics rings to the down stream precipitation vessel 17.By continuously supplying the influent, the liquid level rises upwards, whereupon said liquid can be discharged to a subsequent stage vi the overflow 25 28. The gas production can be controlled by varying the flow of influent through the inlet means 20 as well as by the temperature. The temperature regulation may be coupled to a weather dependent control causing the reactor temperature to rise in the event of a decreasing ambient temperature, and causing it to be decreased in the event of an increasing ambient temperature. It is then important to also simultaneously adjust the low of influent. The heat exchanger 40 for bringing the installation at the proper temperature may be disposed within the vessel 17, but may also be provided on the outside thereof, if necessary, for example in the pump connection 29. After its residence time in the reactor units, the effluent can still be fermented subsequently in a second stage reactor or be mixed with a flocculant in a clarifier 3.The mixture so obtained may be supplied to a flocculation tank not shown , whereupon the sludge can be separated from the effluent or can be supplied to a sludge fermen tation column 6, 7 having a sieve bottom, in which case the sludge separation can be carried out during a considerable residence time.During operation, the pH is measured with the means 41 and, if necessary, corrected by means of a dosage of soda lye or soda, while adding at the same time a small quantity of glucose. This dosage of glucose has proved to be of essential importance, since the composition of floating manure has a shortage of certain ions, which is thus eliminated.In the upflow reactor 16, there is produced a high liquidflow rate due to the presence of the plastics rings which bring about, as it were, a labyrinth structure. The liquid flow acquires a strongly turbulent character, bringing the bacterial culture on the plastics rings and the organic substance of the mixture into intimate contact with one another. This very intensive contact and the optimum mixing of active sludge with the influent affords achieving a very short decomposition time 12 24 hours of the organic material to be obtained. It is also important to note that for the purpose of purifying the effluent by means of flocculation, proper decomposition of the influent is absolutely required prior to reaching the subsequent stage.During the gas production under the influence of the increased temperature, water vapour will be produced as well. Using a non insulated gas hood or gas bag 22 will enable this vapour to be liquified and to flow back into the mixture. By using the installation according to the invention it has proved possible to limit the fermentation time of floating pig manure to 24 hours, whereafter flocculation can be carried out. The capacity of the installation of fig. 2 is, for instance, 3S m3, in which case the mixture hcs then passed about 150 times through the upflow reactor 16.The total contact surface in the vessel 16 is nnn YXntP1y 2 100 m , which entails that every 24 hours the liquid comes 2 into contact with 16,000 m of surface. This equals a liquid film having a thickness of 0,4 mm per 24 hours.The following data can still be given with respect to the embodiment provided above COU chemical oxygen use . . . . . .. . 100,000 mg l BOU biological oxygen use . . . . . . . 33,000 mg l NKj Nitrogen according to KJELDAL . . . 7,200 NH40H ammonia . . . . . . . . . ...4,500 P phosphate . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,200 residue after evaporation . . . . . ... 80,000 mg l ashes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22,000 mg l gas production CH4 . . . . . . . . . . . 35 m3 3 N . . . . . . . . . .. 7 m fermentation temperature . . . . . . . . 35 37 C residence time . . . . . . . . . . .. . 24 hours addition of glucose . . 0 0 05 kg m3 in fluent.The method and the installation according to the invention are useful not only with a bio gas producing system, but also for the aftertreatment of the effluent of a waste water purification process. The installation can also be used for the pretreatment of surface water on behalf of the drinkingwater supply. Among the further possibilities may be cited the denitrification of waste water, the preparation of methanol from straw pulp or wood pulp and from waste paper, and finally a.o. water treatment in fish nurseries. The installation according to the invention can furthermore be used for anaerobic purification of waste water from slaughter houses, starch production facilities, the preserves industry, the paper industry, the dairy industry, etc. It is obvious that the scope of the present invention is not limited to the above possibilities. It is observed that the reference numerals in the claims are not intended to restrict the scope thereof, but are only denoted for clarification.