# Loading apparatus.

## Abstract
A loading apparatus comprising a chute 1 , a housing 3 at the delivery end of said chute, said housing defining a passageway for bulk material S , in which passageway a wheel 4 with cells 7 opening radially outwardly is rotatable about an axis 5 orien tated at right angles to the axis of the chute end, said cells 7 being separated from each other by vanes 6 whose radially outer edges 6 are spaced from the opposing wall portions of the housing 3 , the cell wheel housing 3 also enclosing the portion of the cell wheel 4 in which emptied cells 7 rotate backwards rela tively to the direction of fall of the material, and ducts 10 provided with, or adapted to be connected to, filter means 11 , are provided so as to communicate with this part of the cell wheel 3 .

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A loading apparatus comprising a chute, a housing at the delivery end of said chute, said housing defining a passageway for bulk material, in which passageway a wheel with cells opening radially outwardly is rotatable about an axis orientated at right angles to the axis of the chute end, said cells being separated from each other by vanes or like wall members, whose radially outer edges are spaced from the opposing wall portions of the housing, characterized in that said cell wheel housing also encloses the portion of the cell wheel in which emptied cells rotate backwards relatively to the direction of fall of the material, and ducts provided with, or adapted to be connected to, filter means, are provided so as to communicate with this part of the cell wheel. 2. Apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in that the cell wheel is adapted to be driven in a controlled manner. 3. Apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, characterized by a trapdoor upstream of said cell wheel.

## Description
Title Loading apparatus. This invention relates to a loading apparatus comprising a chute. When ships, bunkers and other storage spaces are loaded by means of a chute with bulk material, for example grains, dust is generated, which must be minimized. The causes of dust generation and emission can be distinguished as follows. A In the upper end of a chute the product has a relatively low velocity, which continues to increase as it falls through the chute. This means that in the bottom part of the chute, only a fraction of the tube diameter is required for the passage of the product, and in the remaining space in the chute, dust laden air is entrained, which is released above the place of delivery. B The product which leaves the chute at a high velocity strikes the mass discharged before, and the kinetic energy which is thereby destroyed causes breakage of kernels, and again dust generation. C In the free path between the end of the chute and the mass of product discharged before, dust seperation may occur owing to dust being blown out of the product stream by the wind. D The product streaming from the chute displaces a like volume of air above the place of delivery, resulting in dust emission that can hardly be controlled. E Product delivered onto a slope of material discharged before can roll off the slope, whereby dust is generated. F Finally, and this actually is not directly related to loading operations, wind can blow up dust from a mass of discharged product. Against the last causes of dust generation and emission E, F , actually measures of an operational nature are effective only, namely, avoiding steep slopes during discharge by a suitable spread, or covering and moistening a cargo. In DE A 2430706, there is disclosed a loading apparatus comprising a chute, a housing at the delivery end of said chute, said housing defining a passageway for bulk material, in which passageway a wheel with cells opening radially outwardly is rotatable about an axis orientated at right angles to the axis of the chute end, said cells being separated from each other by blades whose radially outer edges are spaced from the opposing wall portions of the housing. This prior apparatus makes it possible to suppress dust formation and emission from entrained air in the chute A , and from dissipation of kinetic energy B , and from dustseparation by wind in the free path outside the chute C . In fact the product flowing down in the chute fills successive cells of the wheel, whereby energy is dissipated within the chute, which would otherwise take place in the non controlled space of the place of delivery B , and also the free passageway for air entrained in the chute A is obstructed. As, in this way, the product leaves the chute, that is to say the celled wheel, as a continuous, relatively slow and solid jet, the dust separating effect of the wind in the free path C is also less. The prior apparatus does not, however, offer a solution for suppressing dust emission via the air displaced by the bulk material D , which dust escapes in an uncontrolled manner from a ship being loaded.In fact, during the loading, a certain volume of bulk material and of air entrained downwards in the chute is introduced into a ship s hold, and somewhere the same volume of air will escape from the ship s hold. This often occurs at many metres distance from the mouth of the chute. It is an object of the present invention to avoid this disadvantage. For this purpose, according to the invention, the cell wheel housing also encloses the portion of the cell wheel in which emptied cells rotate backwards relatively to the direction of fall of the material, and ducts provided with, or adapted to be connected to, filter means are provided so as to communicate with this part of the cell wheel.In this way, air displaced by the bulk material is guided via the empty cells into the ducts, and dust emission from displaced air above the place of delivery D is effectively avoided, owing to the fact that the upper edge of the cell wheel pumps a volume of air equal to the discharged volume of bulk material with air entrained downwardly, from the direct surroundings of the chute mouth back upwards into a space shut off from the surroundings,whence the displaced, dust laden air can be passed to a place where this dust no longer causes any trouble. This place may be a dust filter, but also the space.in the top of the cell, from which the bulk material is drawn off at the bottom. A known per se skirt at the outlet of the chute can function much more effectively in combination with the apparatus according to the invention, because the adverse effect of displaced air D on the screen action of such a skirt no longer occurs. In a further elaboration of the invention, the cellwheel is arranged to be driven in a controlled manner. For example, under the control of one or more level testers arranged upstream in the chute, a relatively short column of bulk material may be maintained above the cell wheel, which effectively closes the chute end to entrained air without the risk of bridging in the chute end portion, even if the material has poor flow characteristics. Moreover, downstream of the cell wheel, the outflow velocity of the bulk material can be adjusted to a constant, low value independent of the height of fall in the chute and the slope of the chute, as is the case with the self brakinq cell wheel disclosed in DE A 2430706. One embodiment of the invention will now be described, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Fig. 1 shows an axial cross sectional view of a loading apparatus according to the invention, and showing the cell wheel in side elevational view and Fig. 2 is a part sectional elevation according to the arrow II of Fig. 1. Referring to the drawings, at the end of a chute 1 of a loading apparatus, not further shown, a housing 3 of a cell wheel 4 is coupled by means of a connection 2.The cell wheel 4 has a rotatable shaft 5 mounting radially projecting vanes 6 which divide the space in housing 3 into a plurality of radially outwardly opening cells 7. The cellwheel 4 is arranged to be driven via a driving gear 8 by a motor designated M, possibly controlled by one or more level testers 9. In the drawings, ducts 10 are shown with filters shown diagrammatically and designated 11. The ducts 10 may, however, also be connected via conduits to a dust separator, such as a cyclone, not shown. The drawings further show a guide plate 12, pivotable by adjusting means 13, and a trapdoor 14. Guided by plate 12, bulk material flowing according to arrows S drawn in solid lines, fills the cells 7 of the cell wheel 4, which rotates according to the arrow R. In the lower end portion of chute 11 a small supply of bulk material is maintained to prevent dust laden air in chute 1 from reaching the ambient air. Air displaced by the effluent material is guided by the emptied cells 7, via the arrows L drawn in dot dash lines, into ducts 10, whereafter first the dust contents are separated from this air for example in filters 11 , before the air is admitted to the atmosphere. The stream of material leaving housing 3, controlled by the action of cell wheel 4, is a solid stream having a low rate of flow. Depending on the free dumping height and the overall length of the chute 1, the kinetic energy to be dissipated on the mass dumped before is in practice less than 10 of the amount of kinetic energy to be dissipated without the use of the apparatus according to the invention. The free edges 6 of vanes 6 of the cell wheel 4 move in spaced relationship to the opposing wall portions of the housing 3, in such a manner that jamming from the bulk material is avoided. For example the clearance may be 1 cm for the discharge of grain. Should nevertheless the apparatus be blocked by foreign objects preventing the cell wheel from functioning, access to the interior space of housing 3 can be provided in a simple manner via trapdoor 14. Housing 3 terminates at the lower end in a stub 15 with a beaded rim 16 for mounting a known per se skirt not shown. Such a skirt can function in an optimum manner in the apparatus according to the invention, because its action is not adversely affected by air currents resulting from air displaced by the material flowing out according to the arrow S.