# Assembly for insulating a pipe.

## Abstract
An assembly for insulating a pipe comprises two insulator segments 8 . Each segment 8 is mounted on a frame 13 which includes a pair of supports 12 joined by a connecting bar 20 . Each end of the supports 12 has a hook portion de fined by a face 27 and a tab 14 . The frame 13 is secured to the insulator segment by a plurality of anchors 18 . A keeper 26 having a converging passageway 30 therethrough and a slot 31 therealong is applied to opposing tabs 14 and faces 27 of the insulator segments 8 urging them together and maintaining the insulator segments 8 together around the pipe without any additional support structure. The independ ently supported insulator can be made to fit both round pipes and new, unconventional non circular pipes.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An assembly for insulating a pipe, which assembly comprises a pair of. insulator segments 8 , characterized in that each of said segments 8 is mounted on a respective frame 13 which comprises a pair of supports 12 joined by a connecting bar 20 , and further characterized in that each end of said supports 12 is provided with a hook portion so shaped and disposed than when said segments 8 are mounted on a pipe the hook portions on one frame lie adjacent the hook portions on the other frame, and further characterized in that said assembly includes means 26 which, when said segments 8 are mounted on a pipe, can be mounted on adjacent hook portions to hold said segments 8 against said pipe 2 . 2. An assembly according to Claim 1, characterized in that Saja hook portions are so disposed that, in use, they lie between said pipe and part of said segments. 3. An assembly according to Claims 1 or 2, characterized in that each hook portion comprises a face 27 which, when said segment is mounted on a pipe, extends generally perpendicular to the surface of said pipe immediately adjacent said face 27 , and a tab 14 which extends generally perpendicular to said face 27 . 4. An assembly according to Claim 3, characterized in that said means 26 comprises a keeper having a tapered passageway 30 and a slot 31 which, when said segments are placed on a pipe, can receive a pair of adjacent tabs 14 and a pair of adjacent faces 27 respectively. 5. An assembly according to Claim 4, wherein said slot 31 is tapered. 6. An assembly according to any preceding Claim, characterized in that each segment 8 is mounted on its respective frame 13 by a plurality of anchors 18 each of which is connected to said frame 13 and each of which anchors 18 has at least two fingers 21, 23 which project into said segment 8 . 7. An assembly. according to Claim 6, characterized in that at least some of said fingers are connected by cross pieces 34 .

## Description
ASSEMBLY FOR INSULATING A PIPE This invention relates to an assembly for insulating a pipe. In metallurgical reheat furnaces and other similar environments, metal workpieces are pushed or walked through the furnace and are supported by a series of skid pipes. In a pusher furnace, a complex network of vertical and horizontal watercooled pipes support the skid pipes over which the pieces are pushed. Because heat flow from the furnace into the watercooled pipe structure is forever lost, it is highly desirable to maintain effective insulation around the pipe network. Improperly insulated piping can result in as much as a thirty to thirty five percent heat loss in the furnace, and can also cause deterioration in the pipe infrastructure causing the system to sag, warp or otherwise become distorted. Because of the complex, tedious and labor intensive efforts necessary to reinsulate pipes from which the old insulators have fallen, furnace operators frequently continue to operate an improperly insulated furnace in order to reduce the amount of down time. Conventional insulators frequently employ the use of metal studs, bands, prongs and the like which must be individually welded to the pipe in order that the insulator may hang therefrom. Moreover, these supports must be precisely located and aligned in order to receive the compatible recesses of the insulator. More recently, a new assembly for insulating a pipe has been designed to alleviate the archaic welding concept.Basically, this assembly consists of two insulator segments which are offsettingly aligned on opposite sides of the pipe and are then slid together where their geometry interlocks them and maintains them around the pipe as an insulator unit.In areas near furnace walls or pipe crossings, however, there is not sufficient space to permit the insulator segments to be offset and then slid together without leaving a portion of the pipe exposed as the pieces are slid together. The present invention, at least in its preferred embodiments, reduces the shortcomings noted above as found in the prior art. In particular, it is unnecessary to offset the insulator segments before sliding them together around the pipe. The present invention will, therefore, operate in areas of the pipe structure such as pipe wall joints and pipe intersections where there has heretofore not been sufficient room to offset the insulator segments before inserting them together around the pipe. According to the present invention there is provided an assembly for insulating a pipe, which assembly comprises a pair of insulator segments, characterized in that each of said segments is mounted on a respective frame which comprises a pair of supports joined by a connecting bar, and further characterized in that each end of said supports is provided with a hook portion so shaped and disposed than when said segments are mounted on a pipe the hook portions on one frame lie adjacent the hook portions on the other frame, and further characterized in that said assembly includes means which, when said segments are mounted on a pipe, can be mounted on adjacent hook portions to hold said segments against said pipe. Preferably, said hook portions are so disposed that, in use, they lie between said pipe and part of said segments. Advantageously, each hook portion comprises a face which, when said segment is mounted on a pipe, extends generally perpendicular to the surface of said pipe immediately adjacent said face, and a tab which extends generally perpendicular to said face. Preferably, said means comprises a keeper having a tapered passageway and a slot which, when said segments are placed on a pipe, can receive a pair of adjacent tabs and a pair of adjacent faces respectively. Preferably, in such an embodiment, said slot is tapered. Advantageously, each segment is mounted on its respective frame by a plurality of anchors each of which is connected to said frame and each of which anchors has at least two fingers which project into said segment. Advantageously, in such an embodiment at least some of said fingers are connected by cross pieces. For a better understanding of the invention and to show how the same may be carried into effect, reference will now be made, by way of example, to the accompanying drawings in which Figure 1 is a perspective view showing a circul ar pipe, an assembly in accordance with the present invention around the pipe, and an exploded view of an identical assembly Figure 2 is an axial cross sectional view taken along line 2 2 of Figure 1 showing the two segments of the assembly in place around the pipe with two visible keepers securing their respective tabs and faces Figure 2A is an axial cross sectional view of another embodiment of the invention showing a different form of the anchors projecting into the segments Figure 3 is a perspective view of the assembly shown in Figure 1, the two segments being shown slight ly apart to fully disclose the relationship between the keeper and the corresponding tabs and faces Figure 4 is a perspective view of another embod iment of assembly in accordance with the present invention mounted on a truncated triangular pipe and also showing how the exposed frame conforms to the pipe as well as the relationship of the keeper to the tabs and faces and Figure 5 is a perspective view of the assembly shown in Figure 4, showing in detail the structural relationship between the keeper and the tabs and faces. Referring to the drawings, Figure 1 shows a cylindrical pipe 2 having a passageway 4 therethrough designed to carry a cooling fluid such as water. In a metallurgical reheat furnace, there are many such pipes located in whole or in part in constricted areas. For example, cross pipes, which support the skid pipes over which the workpieces move, generally run from one wall of the furnace to the other wall. Underneath the cross pipes are occasional hairpin pipes which project upwardly from the furnace floor, turn 900 contiguous to a portion of the cross pipe and then turned an additional 900 to project downwardly into the floor. At the walls, and at these pipe junctions, there are lengths of pipe which must be insulated but which are at the same time restricted at one or both ends. The pipe 2 is provided with two assemblies each of which comprises a pair of substantially identical segments 8 which are opposingly aligned with one another around the pipe 2. Each segment 8 is mounted on a frame 13 which has a pair of spaced apart supports 12 which are joined by a connecting bar 20. Each end of each support 12 is provided with a hook portion which comprises a face 27 which projects outwardly from the support 12 and a tab 14. The tab 14 is spaced apart from and substantially aligned with its corresponding support 12 by a gap 16. The frame 13 and the segment 8 are secured to one another by a plurality of anchors 18. As shown in Figures 1 and 2, each anchor has, by way of example, two fingers 21 and 23 which project into and are secured by the insulator segment 8. It is preferred, though not mandatory, that one finger be longer than the other as shown in the relationship of finger 21 to finger 23. This differential length in fingers ensures that the fingers do not terminate on the same arcuate surface thereby reducing the combined shear forces on a single arcuate surface. Although the frame 13 can be located radially virtually anywhere on the segment 8, the frame 13 preferably is at least exposed to the inside surface of the insulator segment 8 so that when the insulator 6 is formed, the frame 13 is in at least partial contact with the pipe 2. The contact between the frame 13 and the pipe 2 increases the heat flow from the frame 13 into the pipe 2 thereby helping ensure that the frame 13 does not become overheated. Figure 2A shows another embodiment of the invention wherein the fingers of adjacent anchors are connected by crosspieces 34. Preferably, the fingers and cross piece of each anchor are integrally secured to one another for reasons of economy of manufacture. Likewise, the plurality of anchors on a support as shown in Figure 2A can be an integrally manufactured part. Again, the anchors shown in Figure 2A are alternatingly of different radial lengths in order to reduce shear force concentrations on a common surface. Figure 1 shows a pair of recesses in each segment 8 defined by the surfaces 22, 24. As can be deduced fromFigure 3, when the two segments 8 are applied to the pipe, the surfaces 22, 24 permit the sliding reception of a keeper 26 therein. The keeper 26 has a passageway 30 therethrough. The passageway 30 converges in a direction away from the faces 27 and tabs 14 when aligned according to Figure 3. The passageway 30 communicates through slot 31 which extends longitudinally along the keeper 26. The slot 31 also converges somewhat in the direction of convergence of the passageway 30. In operation, when the two segments 8 are applied around the pipe 2, the faces 27 of one support, which are oppositely located from one another around the pipe 2, are approximately and opposingly disposed from the faces 27 of the corresponding support 12 on the other segment 8. Thus, the opposing tabs 14 are slidingly received within the converging passageway 30 of the keeper. The opposing faces 27 of the two insulator segments 8 are slidingly received within the converging slot 31. The gaps 16 are substantially filled with the portion of the keeper 26 proximate to the slot 31 as shown in Figure 3. When the keeper 26 is applied to the tabs 14 and faces 27, the converging slot 31 and passageway 30 directly urge the opposing faces 27 together thereby snugly fitting the insulator segments 8 close to one another and conformingly to the pipe 2 therein as shown in Figure 2.Resiliency within the tabs 14 and faces 27 will enhance the reception of the keeper 26. The keeper 26 simultaneously engages the tabs and faces, aligns them and urges them together around the pipe without any relative longitudinal movement of the segments.The keeper tab face assembly secures the insulator 6 anywhere along the pipe 2 without having to align any recesses in the insulator with studs welded to the pipe. As shown in Figure 3, four keepers, two on each end of the insulator segments 8, firmly lock the insulator segments around the pipe resulting in the insulator 6 of Figure 1. Figures 4 and 5 show an analogous, but different embodiment, of the present invention. A truncated triangular pipe 32, which has a substantially improved section modulus over a corresponding cylindrical pipe, is shown in Figure 4.Again, a frame 35 performs the same function as its counterpart frame 13 in the cylindrical insulator 6. The spaced apart supports 19 serve the same purpose as the spaced apart supports 12, but, of course, are of a different shape in order to conform with the exterior surface of the pipe 32.The spaced apart supports 19 are again joined by a connecting bar 20. The frame 35 can be anchored to the insulator segment 48 by the same anchors 18 as previously described.Again, each support 19 terminates at each end thereof in a face 27 provided with an integrally formed tab 14 spaced apart from the support 19 by a gap 16. The keeper 26 operates as previously described to urge the insulator segments 48 into intimate and conforming relationship around the pipe 32 to form the insulator 46. The insulator segments 8 and 48 for either embodiment can be applied perpendicularly to the axis of the pipe.Those sections of pipe extending into a wall or intersecting with additional pipes can quickly and easily be insulated without sophisticated equipment or requiring a worker with a high technical skill level. Various modifications to the embodiments described are envisaged. Thus, the supports could be embedded in the segment 8 and the face 27 could extend towards the pipe with the tab 14 adjacent the pipe. The slot 31 would then face away from the pipe rather than towards it. This embodiment is not however preferred for the heat transfer reasons discussed above. It is also conceivable that the tabs 14 could be tapered rather than the keeper 26 .