# A process for the manufacture of aromatic cyanides.

## Abstract
The invention provides a process for the preparation of ortho and para hydroxybenzyl cyanides. The process of the invention comprises the reaction of an aromatic alcohol selected from ortho and para hydroxybenzyl alcohols with a cyanide reagent and an ester capable of esterifying the hydroxyl group of the benzyl alcohol. In a preferred form of the process there is employed a route via the reaction of an ortho or para hydroxyzbenzyl formate with a cyanide reagent preferably selected from sodium and potassium cyanides.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for the manufacture of aromatic cyanides, in which an aromatic alcohol being an ortho or para hydroxybenzyl alcohol, optionally further substituted in the aromatic nucleus, is reacted preferably at an elevated temperature with a cyanide reagent and an ester capable of esterifying the said aromatic alcohol, and the corresponding ortho or para hydroxybenzyl cyanide thus produced is recovered. 2. A process as claimed in claim 1, in which the cyanide reagent employed is sodium and or potassium cyanide. 3. A process as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, in which the ester is a primary alcohol aliphatic ester, preferably a formate and above all either methyl formate or ethyl formate. 4. A process as claimed in any of the preceding claims, in which the reaction is carried out in a solvent, preferably a primary alcohol and above all methanol and or ethanol. 5. A process as claimed in claim 4, in which the reaction is carried out under reflux of the solvent employed. 6. In a process for the manufacture of aromatic cyanides the steps of reacting an orthoor para hydroxybenzyl formate, optionally further substituted in the aromatic nucleus, with sodium and or potassium cyanide s , to yield the corresponding ortho or para hydroxybenzyl cyanide. 7. A process as claimed in claim 6, in which the reaction is carried out under reflux in a reaction system wherein a primary alcohol serves as a solvent 8. A process as claimed in any of claims 4 to 7, in which the ratio of alcohol to ester is in the range of from about 1 1 to about 4 1 by volume. 9. A process for the manufacture of orthoand para hydroxybenzyl cyanides, optionally further subtituted in the aromatic nucleus, in which a a cyanide reagent comprising sodium and or potassium cyanide s is reacted with b an aromatic starting material comprising either i a mixture of an ortho or para hydroxybenzyl alcohol with a formate ester. or ii an ortho or para hydroxybenzyl formate in a primary alcoholic solvent comprising methanol and or ethanol, at about reflux temperature utilizing a ratio of alcohol to ester of in the range of from about 2 1 to about 4 1 by volume, so as thus to yield the desired corresponding aromatic cyanide. 10. A process as claimed in claim 9, in which after the reaction excess solvent and reactants are removed and recovered by distillation, the product thus obtained after removal of excess solvent and reactants is then separated from inorganic salts by means of extraction from an acidic aqueous medium into an organic solvent, the latter is then evaporated offend finally the resultant product is distilled under reduced pressure to yield the desired aromatic cyanide in substantially pure form

## Description
MANUFACTURE OF AROMATIC CYANIDE This invention is concerned with the manufacture of aromatic cyanides. More specifically it relates to a process for the preparation of orthoand para hydroxybenzyl cyanides, which may optionally be further substituted in the aromatic nucleus, from the corresponding ortho and para hydroxybenzyl alcohols. It is well known that ortho and parahydroxybenzyl alcohols, due to the activating effect of the phenolic hydroxyl group, cannot be converted into the corresponding benzyl cyanides or at least not in any practical yield by the conventional techniques of halogenation followed by reaction with sodium cyanide in a suitable solvent. In the particular case of ortho and para hydroxybenzyl alcohol it is however possible to achieve the desired conversion under reaction conditions which do not involve the use of acidic reagents. For example para hydroxybenzyl alcohol may be converted into the corresponding cyanide in 67 yield using a 4 solution of the starting material in dimethyl formamide and heating with sodium cyanide for 20 hours within a temperature range of 110 1300C Schwartz et. al.,J. Org. Chem. 1976 41 2502 3 .Also para hydroxybenzyl alcohol may first be converted to the corresponding diacetate with acetic anhydride and the diacetate then reacted with potassium cyanide in methanolic solution to give a 70 yield of product Hayashi et. al., Bull. Inst. Chem Res. Kyoto Univ.1974 52 514 . These reactions have the disadvantage that in the former a large excess of an expensive solvent is used, whilst in the latter the corresponding diacetate must be prepared using an expensive reagent. Clearly it would be desirable to provide a synthesis which was generally more convenient than the known processes, for example in that it could proceed under mild conditions, could employ readily obtainable reagents and solvents which are relatively less expensive, could give good yields, could employ simplified isolation processes, need not isolate intermediates or the like, A process has now been discovered which can be adapted to offer such advantages. Accordingly the present invention provides a process for the preparation of an ortho or parahydroxybenzyl cyanide which process comprises the reaction of an ortho or para hydroxybenzyl alcohol with a cyanide and an ester capable of esterifying the benzyl hydroxyl group. Esters for use in this invention will normally be primary alcohol aliphatic esters. Apt esters for use in the process of the present invention include acetate and formate esters. Surprisingly it has been discovered that the use of formate esters offer considerable advantages over the use of acetate esters, for example higher yields may be obtained when using formate esters.Particularly favoured esters for use include methyl formate and ethyl formate. Suitable cyanides for use in the process of the present invention include the cyanides of the alkali metals. The basic nature of these cyanides is believed to aid the reaction. Preferred cyanides for use in this invention are sodium or potassium cyanide. The process of the present invention will be carried out in suitable organic solvent. Particular advantages occur if the solvent is a primary alcohol. The most preferred solvents for the process of the invention are methanol and ethanol Generally the reaction is carried out at an elevated temperature and is most suitably performed under reflux. The process may be carried out by mixing together the reactants in the solvent and stirring whilst maintaining the reactants at an elevated temperature. Preferably the temperature is that at which the mixture refluxes. Under the reaction conditions hydroxyl groups of the ortho and para hydorxybenzyl alcohol may be successively esterified by ester transfer involving base catalysed alcoholysis of the ester in the reaction mixture by the solvent. The base catalyst may be the alkali metal cyanides. The following reaction scheme illustrates the process with respect to para hydroxybenzyl alcohol in the presence of a cyanide such as sodium cyanide and a formate such as methyl formate in a solvent such as methanol. EMI4.1 A mixture of the diester I and the monoesters II and III is formed. Only in the case of the monoester III with a free phenol function is it possible to generate the reactive quinone methide IV which by base catalysis can add cyanide and form the desired product. The reaction system has the advantage that the unreactive esters I and II may be converted to the reactive ester III dye ti tge equilibrium nature of the system.The ester III is removed from the system by the irreversible reaction to give compounds IV and V , the unreactive esters may be gradually converted th the reactive ester and may thereby give advantageous yields of the desired product. The use of the formate ester in the reaction is particularly advantageous. From the aforementioned it is clear that in a further aspect this invention also provides a process for the preparation of ortho or para hydroxybenzyl cyanide which comprises the reaction of an orthoor para hydroxybenzyl formate with sodium or potassium cyanide. Suitably this form of the process of this present invention is performed employing a primary alcohol as solvent. Preferably the primary alcohol used in the present invention is methanol or ethanol.Generally this form of the process of the present invention is performed at elevated temperature and is most suitably performed under reflux. Whereas the formate employed in this aspect of the invention may be preformed if desired, most suitably it is formed in situ by transesterification of the hydroxybenzyl alcohol with a formate ester such as methyl or ethyl formate. The process of this invention is normally carried out in a medium which is a mixture of a primary alcohol and an aliphatic ester The proportion of primary alcohol to aliphatic ester in the reaction medium is to some extent dictated by the velocity of the reaction. At low or high proportions of primary alcohol to aliphatic ester the reaction velocity may be too slow resulting in the production of unwanted by products. Suitably the ratio of alcohol to ester is from 1 1 to 4 1 by volume. A preferred mixture would involve 2 to 4 parts alcohol to 1 part ester volume. It is preferred that the ester used in the reaction medium is a formate ester and the primary alcohol is methanol or ethanol. Clearly it is a considerable advantage that the process of this invention may employ relatively inexpensive materials such as methanol, ethanol, methyl formate and ethyl formate. The use of sodium.or potassium cyanides in the process of this invention is also desirable in view of their availability and relatively inexpensive costs. On completion of a reaction of this invention the excess solvent and reagent are recoverable from the reaction mixture. Suitably this recovery may be carried out using distillation. The reaction products and any unchanged starting material may be separated from inorganic salts by acidification with dilute mineral acid for example sulphuric acid and extraction of the organic material by partition into an organic solvent. Suitable organic solvents include methylene chloride and chloroform. The combined organic extracts may be treated as follows.Firstly the organic solvent is removed by evaporation and the pure product of the process of the present invention isolated by distillation under reduced pressure. As will be appreciated by the skilled chemist, the process of this invention may alsc be carried out on ortho or para hydroxybenzyl alcohols which are substituted on the aromatic nuceus provided of course that the substitution is not one which prevents reaction . Suitable substituents include lower alkoxy groups such as the methoxyl group.A hydroxylbenzyl alcohol of this type is vanillyl alcohol. The following Examples illustrate the invention.Example 1Preparation of para hydroxybenzyl cyanide A mixture of 4.96 para hydroxybenzyl alcohol 2.8 g sodium cyanide 18 ml. methanol and 6 ml. of methyl formate is heated with stirring under reflux for a period of 70 minutes. The reaction mixture is distilled under partial vacuum to recover starting material, and the residue stirred with 20 ml. water and sulphuric acid added until the mixture is no longer alkaline. The product is now isolated by extracting 3 times each time with 15 ml. methylene chloried. The combined solvent extracts are washed with 10 ml. aqueous sodium bicarbonate and solvent evaporated finally under vacuum at a temperature of 600C. There is obtained 5.11 g of a crude para hydroxybenzyl cyanide corresponding to a weight yield of 96 of theory.On simple distillation under oil pump vacuum there is obtained a pale yellow fraction m.pt 650C corresponding to a weight yield equivalent to 93 of theory. Melting point data indicates that this material has an absolute purity of 97 . Example 2Preparation of para hydroxybenzyl cyanide A mixture of 4.96 g. para hydroxybenzyl alcohol 2.4 g sodium cyanide 12 ml. ethanol and 12 ml. ethyl formate is heated with stirring under reflux for a period of ninety minutes. The reaction product is then subjected to the same isolation process as in Example 1 to give a 94 yield of crude product showing a melting point of 58 610C uncorrected.Example 3Preparation of para hydroxybenzyl cyanide A reaction was carried out in an analogous manner to Example 1 except that methyl acetate was used in place of methyl formate. Para hydroxybenzyl cyanide was obtained in a less advantageous yield than in. Example 1. Example 4 Preparation of ortho hydroxybenzyl cyanide A reaction was carried out in an analagous manner to Example 1 except that ortho hydroxybenzyl alcohol was used in place of para hydroxybenzyl alcohol. Ortho hydroxybenzyl cyanide was obtained in yield of 92.7 Crude product Example 5Preparation of 4 hydroxy 3 methoxy benzyl cyanide A reaction was carried out in an analogous manner to Example 1 except that 4 hydroxy 3 methoxy benzyl alcohol was used in place of para hydroxybenzyl alcohol 4 hydroxy 3 methoxybenzyl cyanide was obtained in a yield of 77.4 Crude product .