# Method and apparatus for forming an integral closure for a thermoplastic container.

## Abstract
An improved high speed cast process for fusing fasten ers, with strips of film at their base, to separately extruded film or sheet stock for making containers with integral closure means. The process makes available multiple sets of male and female fastener elements, with variable spacing, in a single extrusion operation. The apparatus includes a forming die 16 for extruding the film 46 through a film forming slot 56 in the die, a die block 22 positioned adjacent to the forming die 16 for extruding a fastening element 48 through a channel 44 thereof at a predeter mined angle with respect to the extruded film 46 for joining the fastening element 48 to the film 46 , a chill roll 28 for cooling the combined film and fastening element, the chill roll being positioned with respect to the film forming die 16 and the die plate 52 to provide a predetermined distance h between a horizontal line extending tangentially from an outer circumferential surface of the chill roll 28 and a die lip 62 on the film forming die 16 and a predetermined distance d between a vertical line extending from the die lip 62 on the film forming die 16 and a predetermined distance d between a vertical line extending from the die lip 62 to said outer circumferential and tangential surface of the chill roll 28 . The apparatus is configured so that adhesion between the fastener elements and the film or sheet occurs very close to the die lips before significant cooling of the extrudate occurs. Containers with improved profiles are obtained because the base permits the profiles to remain relatively rigid during closing and opening.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1.A method for forming an integral thermoplastic fastening element on a theroplatic fils or sheet extruded from a film die which method comprises the steps of extruding at least one fastening element in an angularly disposed relationship towards the film, joining the fastening element and film, cooling the film and fastening element upon a chill roll after the joining, and directing the joining so that it occurs closer to the film die than to the chill roll. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the joining of the fastening element and film is directed to occur immediately adjacent a die lip of the film die, the fastening element comprising a base which is coextruded with a male or female profile, extending the base and profile at an angular disposition towards the film, and joining the base to the film. 3. A method as claimed in claim 3 wherein the fastening element is extruded through a die plate, locating the die plate below the film die and towards the film to provide joining immediately adjacent the die lips of the film die. 4. A method as claimed in claim 2 or claim 3 wherein the base has a cross sectional thickness in excess of 0.028 cm 0.011 in . 5. A method as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 4 wherein the base is extruded at a distance of less than 0.030 cm 0.012 in from the film. 6. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 which includes the step of simultaneously extruding a pair of fastening elements through a die plate, each fastening element having a base which is adapted to be joined to the film, one fastening element base having integrally formed therewith a male profile, and another fastening element base having integrally formed therewith a female profile. 7. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 which includes the step of simultaneously extruding a plurality of pairs of fastening elements through a die plate, each fastening element having a base which is adapted to be joined to the film, one fastening element base of a pair of elements having integrally formed therewith a male profile, and another fastening element base of the pair of elements having integrally formed therewith a female profile. 8. An apparatus for forming an integral thermoplastic fastening element on a thermoplastic film or sheet including a forming die 16 for extruding the film 46 through a film forming slot 56 in the die, a die block 22 positioned adjacent to the forming die 16 for extruding a fastening element 48 through a channel 44 thereof at a predetermined angle with respect to the extruded film 46 for joining the fastening element 48 to the film 46 , a chill roll 28 for cooling the combined film and fastening element, the chill roll being positioned with respect to the film forming die 16 and the die plate 52 to provide a predetermined distance h between a horizontal line extending tangentially from an outer circumferential surface of the chill roll 28 and a die lip 62 on the film forming die 16 and a predetermined distance d between a vertical line extending from the die lip 62 to said outer circumferential and tangential surface of the chill roll 28 . 9. Apparatus as claimed in claim 8 wherein the die plate 52 has a leading edge 74 , and adjusting means 27,23 for positioned the die plate 52 on the film forming die 16 with the leading edge 74 extending below a surface of the die lip 62 having a predetermined width T . 10. Apparatus as claimed in claim 8 or claim 9 wherein the die block 22 is provided with at least one pair of die plates 52 52 and 70 , a first die plate 54 having an orifice 70 for extruding a combined base and male profile therefrom and a second plate 52,52 having an orifice 72 for extruding a combined base and female profile therefrom, each of the combined bases and profiles 70,72 forming a complimentary fastening element for the sealing of an edge of a bag or container. 11. Apparatus as claimed in claim 9 or claim 10 wherein the width T of the die lip 62 is from 0.05 cm 0.020 in. to 0.076 cm 0.030 in . 12. Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 8 to 11 wherein the fastening element 48 is extruded through a channel in the die block 22 having a gap x , the gap being greater than 0.028 cm 0.011 in. in depth. 13. Apparatus for forming an integral thermoplastic fastening element on a thermoplastic film or sheet, which apparatus comprises an extrusion die 16 having a slot 56 ending in extrusion die lips 62 , a side of the die 16 presenting a face 80 angularly disposed towards the extrusion slot 56 and die lips 62 , an extrusion die block 22 located adjacent the face 80 , a die plate 52 secured to the die block 22 , the die block 22 having an extrusion channel 44 disposed angularly adjacent the exit of the die block 22 so as to increase the acuteness of the angularity of the extrudate issuing from the die plate channel 44 with respect to the extrudate issuing from the die lips 62 , and cooling means 28 located below the extrusion die 16 and die plate 52 . 14. Apparatus as claimed in claim 13 wherein the die block 22 is adjustably mounted with respect to the angular face 80 of the extrusion die 16 , the bottom edge of the die plate 52 facing towards the extrusion die lips 62 and being located below the bottom of the extrusion die lips. 15. Apparatus as claimed in claim 14 wherein the bottom edge of the die plate 52 is located laterally inwardly toward the extrudate of the extrusion die 16 with respect to the edge 73 of the die lips 62 adjacent the die plate 52 . 16. Apparatus as claimed in claim 14 or claim 15 wherein the die plate 52 at its bottom includes fastenershaped orifices 70,72 and base shaped orifices 68,68 and 68 in open communication with each other and the die block extrusion channel 44 , the base shaped orifices 68,68 and 68 allowing the formation of thermoplastic strips at the bottom of the fastener members. 17. Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 14 to 16 wherein the cooling means includes a chill roll 28 , the chill roll being located so that its uppermost extent is above the die lips 62 and one of its lateral extents extends below and to the die plate 52 side of the die lips 62 thereby angularly disposing the extrudate from the die lips toward the extrudate issuing from the die plate 52 . 18. Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 14 to 17 wherein the lower edge 74 of the die plate 52 facing the extrusion die 16 extends directly under a land area of the extrusion die 16 located to the side of the die lips 62 adjacent the die plate 52 . 19. Apparatus as claimed in claim 18 wherein the distance y between the lower edge of the die plate and the surface of a film or sheet issuing from the die lips 62 is less than 0.030 cm 0.0012 inch . 20. Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 14 to 19 which includes a liquid cooling means 30 for cooling the joined fastening means and the film and sheet combination 46,48 and 50 , means for passing the combination around a roller, 36 an air jet apparatus 38 located adjacent a side of the roller 36 over which the combination passes, the air jet apparatus 38 including a tongue 39 extending tangentially beyond the circumference of the roller 36 , whereby the air jet velocity is increased to remove excess water from the surface of the combination 46,48 and 50 .

## Description
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR FORMING AN INTEGRAL CLOSURE FOR A THERMOPLASTIC CONTAINER This invention relates to a high speed cast process and apparatus for making an improved film or sheet product with integral fastening elements. More particularly, this invention relates to a method and apparatus of in line forming of integral fastening elements with film or sheet stock to be made into bags or other containers which are closable by the fastening elements. For a considerable period of time, bags with integral fastening elements have been made by the blown film process similar to that taught in U.S. Patent No.3,340,116, for example. Here the fastening elements are extruded from the same polymer melt streams through an annular die containing extrusion orifices. Another technique for manufacturing integral fastening elements is taught, for example, in U.S. Patent No. 3,462,332.That patent discloses a cast film process wherein the fastening elements are extruded separately from the film and are thereafter joined with the film by being brought together against a rotating cooling roll while the film and fastening elements are still in a fusible state. while both the prior art blown film and cast film processes have produced commercial products, those made by the relatively faster cast film process have lacked certain advantages. The ability of fastening elements to resist rotation to obtain better interlocking remained a desired end. The ability to readily and controllably make thickened bases for the fastening elements yet maintain high production speeds, with the ability to make multiple and variable sized bags out of a single cast film, all remained a need until the present invention. While U.S. Patent Nos. 3,198,228 and 3,338,284 show thickened bases, these are not found in a cast process. Also to be desired was to have cast die lips of sufficient thickness so as not to be susceptible to damage.The reliable high speed process for producing superior integral fastening elements taught by this invention meets the needs left unanswered by the prior art. The invention leads to flexibility and hardware and product improvements heretofore unknown to the art.The present invention permits forming of a thickened base for the fastening elements in order to permit more erect elements which do not bend or rotate out of alignment when it is desired to interlock or disengage the same. In effect, extra base strips are extruded together with the fastening elements and are joined to a separately extruded film or sheet close to their die exits. The fastening elements with their integral bases are joined to the film or sheet stock at a desired dispcsition to permit ready fusing of the thickened bases to the film or sheet stock which is, in turn, formed into bags or containers. By this invention, the location and width of the base strips on the fastening elements can be changed without affecting the film or sheet extrusion.The thickness of the base strips extruded with the fastening elements are independent of the film or sheet stock thickness. The present invention also permits the production of two or more bags or containers of varying size from the same film extrusion since the thickened base strips can be a base for a plurality of fastening elements varyingly spaced apart.The sheet or film die lips can remain wide and therefore less susceptible to damage and still not interfere with adhesion between the fastening elements and the film or sheet stock. The invention resides in a method for forming an integral thermoplastic fastening element on a thermoplastic film or sheet extruded from a film die comprising the steps of extruding at least one fastening element in an angularly disposed relationship towards said film, joining said fastening element and film, cooling said film and fastening element upon a chill roll after said joining, and directing said joining so as to occur closer to the film die than to the chill roll. The invention further resides in an apparatus for forming an integral thermoplastic fastening element on a thermoplastic film or sheet, including a forming die for extruding the film through a film forming slot in said die, a die block positioned adjacent to the forming die for extruding a fastening element through a channel thereof at a predetermined angle with respect to the extruded film for joining said fastening element to the film, a chill roll for cooling the combined film and fastening element, said chill roll being positioned with respect to the film forming die and the die plate to provide a predetermined distance h between a horizontal line extending tangentially of an outer circumferential surface of the chill roll and a die lip on the film forming die and a predetermined distance d between a vertical line extending from the die lip to said outer circumferential and tangential surface of the chill roll. The invention further resides in an apparatus for forming an integral thermoplastic fastening element on a thermoplastic film or sheet, said apparatus comprising an extrusion die having a slot ending in extrusion die lips, a side of said die presenting a face angularly disposed towards said extrusion slot and die lips, an extrusion die block located adjacent said face, a die plate secured to the die block, said die block having an extrusion channel disposed angularly adjacent the exit of said die block so as to increase the acuteness of the angularity of the extrudate issuing from the die plate channel with respect to the extrudate issuing from said die lips, and cooling means located below said extrusion die and die plate. The invention further resides in a cast, relatively unoriented film or sheet having integral relatively stiff fastening members, each of said fastening members having base strips, said base strips secured to said film or sheet for at least 90 percent of each base width, whereby said base strips provide rigidity for the fastening members for each opening and closing despite the cast film remaining relatively unoriented. Figure 1 is a schematic elevational view showing an extrusion apparatus for integrally forming fastening elements on film or sheet Figure 2 is an enlarged schematic elevational view of a sheeting die and fastening element, die block and plate as illustrated as part of the extrusion apparatus of Figure 1 Figure 2A is a frontal view of the die block of Figure 2 showing a mechanism for adjusting the die block location Figure 3 is an enlarged schematic bottom view looking in the direction of line 3 3 of Figure 2 showing a plurality of die blocks and plates as associated with the film or sheeting die and particularly illustrating the fastening element die slots and the sheeting die orifice Figure 4 is an enlarged cross sectional view of the film or sheeting die and fastening element die plate taken along section 4 4 of Figure 3 illustrating the extrusion of the film or sheeting stock as it is combined with a fastening element and its base, a modified arrangement of a die plate being shown in dotted lines Figure 5 is a view like Figure 4 showing the die plate spaced from the film or sheet die by an intervening shim Figures 6 and 7 are similar to Figure 5 with the location of the die plate changed and Figures 4P, 5P, 6P and 7P are enlarged schematic cross sectional views of representative female profiles formed by positioning the dies as illustrated in Figures 4, 5, 6 and 7, respectively. Apparatus 10 illustrated in Figure 1 comprises a conventional screw extruder 12. Extending outwardly from extruder 12 is an extruder pipeline 14 for feeding a synthetic resin to a main sheeting or film die 16.For convenience, die 16 will hereinafter be called film die even though it is capable of extruding either a film or a sheet usable in this invention. Feeding from extruder pipeline 14 is a second extruder pipeline 18 which, through pump 20, supplies resin to a plurality of die blocks 22. Each die block 22 and an associated die plate 52 provide an extrusion path for extruding fastening elements which combine with the film leaving the film die 16. This apparatus permits the extrusion and fusion of fastening elements with strips of film at their base to a sheet or film extruded from the film die 16. The fastening elements, base and film are represented by reference characters 48, 50, 46, respectively, as illustrated in Figures 1, 2 and 4P.These elements combine extremely close to the extrusion die lips, the joining locations illustrated in Figures 1 and 2 being exaggerated only to show that they extrude as separate components. The apparatus is capable of making cast film with multiple sets of generally U shaped and generally arrow shaped fastening elements, shaped like those shown in U.S. Patent No. 3,340,116, for example, integrated with the thickened base strips of film later described in detail. An air jet 24 and or air knife 26 can be used to assure good contact of the film and fastening elements with a chill roll 28 while screens or shields not shown can optionally block air flow in front of each fastening element to prevent distortion of the malleable extrusion. The air jets above the air knives pin the edges of the drawn film extrusion to the chill roll to reduce narrowing of the film and thickening of the film edge. Below air knife 26 preferably are located water jets 30 which are aligned with each of the fastening elements to cool the same. It may be desirable to add second water jets 32 located on the side of the chill roll opposite from the air knife to be certain that the fastening elements are fully cooled before the same are wound. Preferably, the combined film fastening elements are taken off the chill roll and passed across a grooved roll 34, which can contain water suction means, and are then passed over a second take off roll 36 which can contain a vacuum assist to hold the film closer thereto. Immediately adjacent the roll 36 is an air jet mechanism 38 to remove any excess water remaining on the extruded film fastening elements after they leave roll 36. The lower end of the air jet mechanism contains a flange or tongue 39 extending below the vertical tangent point of roll 36. The air jet see arrows makes tangential contact with the extruded film fastening element combination. The air jet velocity between the tongue and roll atomizes the water which separates from the film along the path of the tongue.From the roll 36, the film fastening element combination is taken to a wind up roll not shown or to a mechanism not shown for actually forming containers from the film fastening element combination. Figures 2 to 4 show more detailed views of the sheeting die 16 and fastening element die block 22 illustrated in Figure 1. Polymer entering channel 40 from pipeline 14 extrudes outwardly from film forming slot 56 past corners 42 of die lip 62 adjacent the lower end of the sheeting die 16. Die block 22 is secured to the side of the film die 16 with bolts 25 extending through slot 23. The die plate 52 is bolted to the bottom surface of die block 22. A plurality of die bolt holes 27 allow for varying placement of the die blocks, and the slot 23 in each die block allows for adjustment of the die block with respect to each bolt. Each die block 22 is placed so that a lower or leading edge 74 of the die plate 52 is below the die lip 62 of film die 16.Resin from pipeline 18 passes through a channel 44 which is disposed angularly within the die block 22 and is extruded through profile orifices 68 and 70 in die plate 52 and meets with the film 46 immediately adjacent the lowermost extent of die lip 62 of the film die thereby joining the fastening elements 48 and base 50 to form the film fastening element combination 46, 48 and 50. The angular disposition of the exit of the channel 44 increases the acuteness of the angularity of the extrudate issuing therefrom so as to increase the closeness of the joining of the film fastening element combination Die block 22 carries female die plates 52 and 52 , having left and right hand female profile orifices 70, and male die plate 54 having left and right hand male profile orifices 72.These are seen in Figure 3 which is a view looking at the face of fastener die blocks 22 as secured to film die 16. Male and female profiles 48 exit from orifices 70 and 72 and film strips forming base 50 exit from orifices 68, 68 and 68 together with profiles 48. The film from film die 16 exits from film slot 56 and is joined with the profiles and their base 50 immediately adjacent die lip 62. Figures 4 and 5 are enlarged detailed drawings of the arrangement of the film die 16 and die plate 52 schematically showing how closely it is believed the film fastening element unites adjacent to the die lip 62. If film die 16 and die plate 52 are properly arranged with respect to one another, they will produce a satisfactory film fastening element combination typified by Figure 4P. If not, an unsatisfactory film fastening element combination as typified byFigure 5P can result. A fundamental problem in extruding a fastening element on cast film is to obtain satisfactory adhesion of the element to the film. It has been discovered that the closer the fastening element can be joined to the film as the latter issues from the film die, the better the chances are that satisfactory adhesion will occur, particularly at high speed extrusion rates.Figure 4 illustrates a particular arrangement which has been found to permit high speed extrusions, in excess of 200 feet per minute, while obtaining satisfactory film fastening element adherence as typified by Figure 4P. To bring. the extrusion of the base 50 of the fastening element through channel 44 so that it joins film 46 issuing from channel 56 closely adjacent to the die lip 62, it is desirable to make the distance T of the die lip as short as practical and to have the base 50 angularly disposed towards film 46. The distance T should not be so short, however, that the die lip 62 forms a knife edge, which is easily subject to damage. For a working embodiment, a relatively wide distance T of from about 0.0508 cm 0.020 inch to 0.0762 cm 0.030 inch has been found practical because of the angularity of extrusion built into the apparatus by this invention. The extrusion of film 46 can also be angled towards the extrusion of the base 50 by the relative location of the extrusion channel, as the film exits at end corners 42, with respect to the chill roll 28. For example, by locating the extrusion channel back a distance d from a vertical tangent point of the chill roll 28, and a distance h from a horizontal tangent point of the chill roll 28 Figure 1 , the angle e of the film extrudate 46 with respect to the vertical can be varied. Likewise, by providing an angular face 80 on the film die 16, along which a matching surface 78 on the die plate 52, the die plate can slide up and down on the angular face 80 before being clamped in position, as shown in Figures 2 and 2A. Thus, the lower or leading edge 74 of die plate 52 can be located at a desired position with respect to an adjacent film surface 76. This, therefore, determines not only the angular disposition of the base 50 with respect to the film 46, but also the closeness of the two when they engage. The distance between the film surface 76, shown extended by a dotted line in Figure 4 and die plate leading edge 74 is designated as distance ty The gap distance between the face 80 of the film die 16, at an edge 73 of die lip 62 from an inner face 84 of the channel 44 is designated x .The bevel or angle a is the angular relationship between faces 80 and 84. Several runs were made using the die arrangement shown in Figure 4 to test the variables as they may affect adhesion. In some cases the resin was varied, in others the die lip distance T was varied, the angle e varied by changing distances d and h, the bevel angle a was varied, and the gap distance x was varied. The resins used were low density polyethylene resins. The successful runs are shown in Table I. TABLE I x Min. Resin T Width gap for Dow Melt Density of Die d h Bevel AdhensionRun Designation Index g cc Lip in. in. in. in. 1 PE 747 6 .922 .026 1.9 4.4 30 .013 2 6 .922 .026 3.3 3.0 30 .013 3 6 .922 .030 2.5 4.2 20 .013 4 6 .922 .030 2.5 4.2 30 .014 5 6 .922 .030 2 4.5 20 .013 6 6 .922 .030 2 4.5 30 .015 7 6 .922 .026 1.9 4.5 30 .013 8 6 .922 .026 0.0 6.5 30 .013 9 PE 641 2 .922 .026 1.9 4.5 30 .012 10 PE 647 6 .923 .026 1.9 4.5 30 .013 11 PE 747 6 .922 .026 1.9 4.5 45 .013 12 6 .922 .020 2.0 4.5 30 .014 These runs produced fastener female profiles 48 and integrated bases 50 which adhered well to the film 46 typified by those shown in Figure 4P. while female profiles are shown for convenience, it should be appreciated that male profiles would be similarly formed. when the gap x was reduced below that indicated in Table I unsatisfactory adhesion occurred, such as illustrated in Figures 5P or 6P, for example. In these runs it was found that gap x always had to exceed 0.028 cm .011 inch to provide a possibility of satisfactory adhesion even though other factors were varied. In all the runs shown in Table I, the leading edge 74 of the die plate 52 was located below the bottom of the die lip 62 of the film die. Without this disposition, satisfactory adhesion was not obtained. For example, a run was made under the same conditions as Run 7 ofTable 1 except that the gap dimension x was set at 0.0508 cm 0.020 inch , to provide the best chance for adhesion, but with the leading edge 74 of the die plate being flush with the die lip 62 of the film die.Unsatisfactory adhesion resulted. It does not appear to matter whether bottom surface 81 of the die plate is angularly or horizontally disposed from edge 74. Additional runs were made to determine the possible effect of the distance y between the leading edge 74 of the die plate 52 and the dotted line film surface 76 of the film 46 based on a fixed angle e even though the leading edge 74 might cause interference with the dotted line film surface. This is shown inFigure 4 where the dotted line of leading edge 74 extends past the projected dotted line of surface 76 of the film 46 and is pushed back to the film position shown in dotted lines by projected dotted line surface 76 . Actually, the dotted line film position would be pushed back even further by base 50 passing between leading edge 74 and film surface 76. A similar situation would also occur in Figure 7 where the distance y provides an insufficient clearance for the base 50. In these additional runs, the resin used was the same the width of channel 56 was 0.051 cm 0.020 inch the distance T was 0.066 cm 0.026 inch the angle a was kept at 200 angle e was kept at 190, with d 4.826 1.9 inches and h 11.43 cm 4.5 inches the film take away speed was 3840 meters hour 210 ft min , and the chill roll diameter was 61 cm 24 inches . The other conditions were varied, however, as illustrated in Figures 5, 6 and 7. In each of these cases, a shim 84 was inserted to permit greater variation in the gap x and the location of the leading edge 74, i.e., dimension y. The variables are listed in TableII, the width of shim 84 being the distance between face 86 and face 80 as shown in Figure 5. TABLE II Width ofRun Shim Inches Gap x Distance vFigure 5 0.015 0.020 0.016Figure 6 0.010 0.016 0.012Figure 7 0.010 0.020 0.002 The profile achieved with the run of Figure 5 is represented by Figure SP, Figure 6 by Figure 6P andFigure 7 by Figure 7P. The adhesion of base 50 to film 46 as shown in Figure 5P leaves large holes or unadhered sections and results in a clearly unsatisfactory profile. The adhesion shown between base 50 and film 46 shown in Figure 6P is improved, at least on one side, but the profile still remains unacceptable because of the poor adhesion on the other side. Note that distance y is decreased in the Figure 6 run as compared to the Figure 5 run. As distance y is decreased even further, as in the Figure 7 run, adhesion between base 50 and film 46 becomes greatly improved.The profile is satisfactory for commercial purposes as adhesion occurs over at least 90 percent of the base width.Additional runs where distance y was reduced further, even to a negative dimension, i.e., as shown in phantom in Figure 4, with all other conditions being the same as run Figure 7, found adequate adhesion and produced satisfactory profiles. Also viewing Figures 4 and 7 and 4P and 7P, it is observed that in these particular arrangements the leading edge 74 of the die plate not only is below but is located laterally inwardly toward film surface 76 with respect to edge 73 of the film die for satisfactory adhesion to occur. where leading edge 74 is located outwardly of edge 73, as shown in Figure 5, or even directly below edge 73, as shown in Figure 6, unsatisfactory adhesion occured as illustrated in Figures 5P and 6P, respectively . where the leading edge 74 is located both below and inwardly of edge 73, the polymer stream through channel 44 is urged towards the die lip 62 and the film 46 to achieve early joining. From the various runs illustrated in Tables I and II, it can be seen that a satisfactory fastening element is extruded onto a film at high speeds, even with a relatively wide die lip if the bottom of the die plate is located below the bottom of the film die, and where the gap x is sufficiently large, and the distance y is not too great so that combining of the fastening element with the film can occur closely adjacent the die lip. In fact, the combining occurs so closely that it is not detectable by the naked eye. It is not known what actually occurs in area 75 between base 50 and film 46 or of what dimension the area is. Under the above conditions, the base 50 has excellent adhesion to the film surface 76. These runs had profiles male or female of about 52 mils in height. Equally good results were obtained with profiles of 62 mils in height. Once a satisfactory fastening element has been formed with the film, the film can be cut and sealed to form containers in the conventional manner.The arrangement of Figure 3 makes it possible to form two containers or bags because the film is provided with two sets of male and female fastening elements.Other combinations of fastening elements and spacing on a single film can be achieved with the apparatus of this invention. The present invention has several apparent advantages. It makes possible the forming of fastening elements on cast film at higher speeds than heretofore possible. It permits forming of a base for the fastening element in a cast process so as to present a more rigid, relatively non rotatable element which greatly facilitates interlocking between the male and female elements. It permits the use of a relatively wide die lip so that the die lips are less subject to damage than if they were of a knife edge or narrow configuration without sacrificing adhesion between the fastening element and the film. The invention allows for variations in the base and male and female profiles. These may be formed from separate polymer sources, making it possible to form the fastening elements of different materials than the film itself.It is also possible to produce two or more containers from the same film extrusion since the thickened base can form the base for two fastening elements each of which is strong enough to be pulled on when disengaging the fastening elements. It is also possible to vary the locations and numbers of male and female profiles on a given film extrudate. while certain representative embodiments and details have been shown for purposes of illustrating the invention, it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various changes in applications can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example, the film or sheet stock and or fastening elements can be made of various other synthetic resinous materials, the size, color and shape of the components can be varied, the number of fastening elements extruded onto a film or sheet can vary, the actual design and configuration of the container can vary, from flexible bags to rigid containers, and equivalent hardware can be substituted.