# Shutter and window provided with such a shutter.

## Abstract
A shutter for a window is provided, the shutter com prising a plurality of panels 16 19 of thermal insulation material, the panels being hinged together such that in use they are movable between a closed, extended, position in which they lie in substantially the same plane to provide a thermal insulation screen and an open, collapsed, po sition in which they lie folded together. The shutter provides thermal insulation characteristics which are significantly more effective than those of double glazing but without many of the disadvantages of double glazing.

## Claims
Claims 1. A shutter for a window, characterised in that the shutter comprises a plurality of panels 16 19 of thermal insulation material, the panels being hinged together such that in use they are movable between a closed, extended, position in whic they lie in substantially the same plane to provide a thermal insulation screen, and an open, collapped, rosition in which they are folded toget er. 2. A shutter as claimed in Claim 1, in which the panels are hinged such that then moving between the open and closed positions they aropt a zar or concertina configuration. 3. A abutter as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2, in which each panel comprises a pair of sheets 2 between hicl a thermal insulation foam 22a is sandwiched. 4. A abutter as claimed in Cl im 7, in which the form is a polyisocyanurate foa . 5. A shutter as claimed in Clsim 5 or Cleim 4, in which each sheet comprises a l inete. 6. A shutter as claimed in any one of Cl ims 3 to 5, in which the sheste are articled so opposite sided of a support frame 20,21 . 7. A shutter as claimed in any one of Claims 3 to 5, in which the sheets comprise opposite sides of a hollow plastics extrusion which contains the thermal insulation foam. 8. A shutter as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, in hich each panel is connected to the or each qadjacent panel by a continuous hinge 24,25 so that there is no air gap between the panels. 9. h shutter as claimed in Claim 8, in which a continuous flexible plastics hinge is used. 10. A shutter as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, provided with a hinge 26 at the free edge of one of the panels for use in mounting the shutter in position adjacent to a window. 11. A shutter as claimed in Claim 10, in which the hinge is e continuous hinge so that there is no air gap when the shutter is mounted. 12. h shutter as claimed in Claim 11, in which the hinge is E continuous flexible plastics hinge. 13. A shutter as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, in combination with sealing strips 29,30 which when the shutter is in use, are used to provide a seal along the two edges of the shutter which extend transversely of the hinges when the shutter is in the closed position. 1 . utter as claimed in claim 13, in which the sealing strips comprise flexible wiping seals of rubber, syathetie rubber, or plastics material. 15. A shutter as claimed in any one of the preceding claims in combination with a second similar shutter such that the two shutters can, in use, be mounted at opposite edges of a window an which, in the closed position, meet to provide a thermal insulation screen over substantially the entire area of the window. 16. A shutter as claimed in Clair 15, in which means 32,33 are provided to form a seal where the two shutters meet. 17. A shutter as claimed in Claim 1G, in which a sea ing strip is provided on one shutter which provides a wiring seal on the other shutter when both shutters are closed. 18. A window when fitted with one or more shutters as claimed in any one of the preceding claims.

## Description
Shutter and window Drovided with such a shutter The invention relates to shutters and more particularly to shutters for windows. It is well known that a single pane of glass provides little or no thermal insulation, but the conventional method of providing additional insulation is to provide a double glazed window, there being two sheets of glass with a layer of air trapped therebetween. However double glazing has a number of disadvantages. Firstly, the arrangement is permanent and while it reduces heat loss when outside conditions are colder than the inside conditions, it also restricts the entry of heat when the outer conditions are hotter.Furthermore it is difficult to effectively doubleglaze existing windows and it is usually necessary to fit completely new frames. A further disadvantage is that there is a risk of condensation between the two sheets of glass. The invention aims to provide thermal insulation for windows, without the disadvantages associated with double glazing. The invention provides a shutter for a window, the shutter comprising a plurality of panels of thermal insulation material, the panels being hinged together such that in use they are movable between a closed, extended, position in which they lie substantially in the same plane to provide a thermal insulation screen and an open, collapsed, position in which they are folded together. The panels may be hinged such that when moving between the open and closed positions they adopt a zig zaz or concertina configuration. Sach panel may comprise a pair of sheets between which a thermal insulation foam material is sandwiched. Apolyisocyanuratefoam may be used. Each sheet may comprise a laminate such as Formica or Wareite. Alternatively each sheet may comprise or be finished in metal e.g. steel plastics, timber or fabric. The sheets may be attached to opposite sides of a support frame, e.g. of timber. Alternatively the sheets may comprise opposite sides of a hollow plastics extrusion which contains the thermal insulation foam. Preferably each panel is connected to the or each a acer.t panel by a continuous hinge so that there is no air gap between the panels. k continuous flexible plastics hinge may be used, for example constructed of pol mropylene. Preferably each shutter is provided with a hinge at the free edge of one of the panels for use in mounting the shutter in position adjacent to a window.The hinge is preferably a continuous hinge so that there is no air rat when thc shutter is mounted. A continuous flexible plastics hinge Ira be used, for example constructed of polypropylene. ne shutter may be provided in combination with sealing strips which, when the shutter is in use, are used to provide a seal along the two edges of the shutter which extend transversely of the hinges when the shutter is in the closed position. The sealing strips may comprise flexible wining seals of rubber, synthetic rubber or plastics. Freferably two shutters are provided which, in use, can be merited at opposite edges of a window and which, n the closed pos tion, meet to provide a thermal insulation screen over substantially the entire area of the window. Neans may be provided to fort a fleal were the two shutters meet. For example a sealing strip ray be r ovided on the shutter which provides a witinr seal on the other shutter when both shutters are close. The sealing strip may comprise a flexible strip of rubber, synthetic rubber or plastics. The invention includes a window fitted with one or wore shutters as defined above. Ey way of example, a specific embodiment of sbutters according to the invention will now be described, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which lgure 1 is a sectional plan view of a pair of shutters according to an embodiment of the invention, installed adiacent to a window Figure 2 is a front e evation showing the two shutters in their closet position Figure 3 is a view shoring the interior of one shutter Figure is a section on line A A of Figure 3 Figure 5 is a view of part of Figure 1 in greater retail, illustrating the hinges of one of the panels Figure 6 is a full size cross sectional view of one of the hinges Figure 7 is a full size cross sectional view of er, alternative form of hinge Figure S is a vertical cross section through one of the closed shutters, illustrating the sealing.strips at the top and bottom of the shutter Figure 0 is a horizontal cross section through the closed shutters showing the sealing strip at the point where the two shutters meet and Figures 10 to 12 are crose sections through component parts of alternative erbodiments of shutter. Figure 1 illustrates a conventional window comprisina an opening 10 bounded by wall sections 11 and 1, the opening being close by a window frame 17 lazed with a aingle pane of glass 14. According to the invention the window skown inFigure 1 is provided with a pair of thermal insulation shutters 13 and 15a. Each shutter comprises faur panels, 1 to 1, One e ge of each of the panels lE is h5n. .ed to an edge of t1e wino frame 13 and the penels tkanselves are hinged together so that they are movahle between a closed position namely that a opted by panel 15 in Figure 1, and an open position illustrated in dotted lines at the left hand side of Figure 1, in which the panels neatly collapse on one another taking up a small amount of storage space in which they do not significantly obscure the window.As is illustrated by the position adopted by the shutter 15a, the panels collapse on one another in a zig zag or concertina fashion. Then both panels are in the closed position as illustrated in Figure 2, they provide a continuous thermal insulation screen which extends over the window.This not only traps a layer of air between the shutters and the glass, thereby having a similar insulation effect to double glazing, but the shutters themselves also constitute a considerable barrier to the passage of heat and so the overall insulation effect which is achieved is significantly greater than that achieved by doubleglazing. Furthermore the shutters can be opened to allow the maximum amount of solar energy gain during daylight hours. In the closed position the shutters give maximual thermal insulation against heat loss during the hours of darkness or when the room is unused. The closed position may also be used in the summer to prevent over heating and to ensure complete darkness in rooms if desired. As shown in Figures 3 and 4, each panel is built on a timber frame comprising two uprights 20 and four evenly spaced cross mer bers 21. A sheet of laminate or other rigid material 22 is secured to each face of the frame and the gap between the sheets of material is filled with polyisocyanurate foam thermal insulation material 22a. To provide effective trappinr of a layer of air between the shutters and the glass 1 1, continuous hinges are useW HIch do not provide and a r gap between panels or the joint with the window frame 13. Figure 5 illustrates a first continuous hinge 24 between panels 17 and 18, a second continuous hinge 25 between panels 16 and 17, and a third continuous hinge 26 between panel 16 and the window frame 13. There is of course a similar hinge between panels 18 and 19 and the same sort of hinges are utilised on the panels of shutter 15. Figure 6 shows one of the hinges in detail, the hinge comprising a continuous strip of polypropylene with a reduced thickness portion 27 about which the hinge can flex repeatedly. If desired a hinge of the type shorn in Figure 7 can be utilised, having. barbs 28 which are plugged into recesses in the panels to improve the connection of the hinge with the panels. As shown in Figure 8, a first sealing strip 29 is secured alon he upper edge of the window recess and a second sealing strip 30 is secured along the lower edge of the window recess. Each sealing strip has a flexible wiping seal reber 31 projecting therefrom and when the two shutters are pushed into their closed positions the members 31 are deflected by the shutters and form a seal along the under and lower edges of the shutters. To complete the sealing of the cavity between the shutters and the glass, the free edge of the panel 19 of shutter 15a is provided with a channel member 32 which extends for the full height of the panel and contains a flexible wiping sesl 7 . The shutter 15 is closed first, and. when the stutter 15a is closed the wiping seal 33 is deflected by the shutter 15 and presses resilien ly against the shutter, ing ang gay betwees the two shutiers. The window shutters shorn in the Figures provide an effective but inexpensive alternative to double glazing or double windows. They can be readily manufactured to suit a whole rnge of window sizes and can be provided with a range of different insulation core thicknesses depending on the thermal insulation requirements of the user. For example there maw be core thickness of 6 mm, 9 mm, 13 mm, 20 mm, or 25 nm. It has been calculated that the shutters may provide savings of up to 829 of heat loss through single glazing and 63 of the heat loss through double glazing. The fact that the use of the shutters enables a room to be heated in a shorter period, and the room thereafter tykes longer to cool means that energy savings can be achieved of between 15 , and 26c. It has been calculated that it would tale approximately 5.63 hours to lose the same amount of heat through closed shutters according to the invention as sinvle flazing would lose in one hour and it would take approxisately 2.91 hours to lose the same amount of heat as double lazing would lose in one hour. The polyisocyenurate foam used for the core has a heat transfer coefficient k of 0.0202 watts metre 00. h low heat transfer coefficient is of course desirable, and the k velue preferably lies in the range 0.017 to 0.025 watts metre . It has been calculated that the U values, which give a measure of heat loss, when using the shutters are considerably less than those when using conventional forms of glezing. Come examples of comparative heat losses and fuel costs are given below. 1. For single glazing with 6 mm glass U 5.6 watts metre2 C .External Internal Heat Heating CostTemp. C Temp. C Loss. Electric Oil Gas 0 20 13.45 37.26p 15.74p 9.67p 5 20 10.08 27.92p 11.79p 7.92p 10 20 6.72 18.61p 7.86p 5.28p 15 20 3.36 9.97p 3.93p 2.64p 2. For double glazing with two sheets of 6 mm glass bounding a 20 mm air space U 2.9 watts metre20c . External Internal Heat Heating CostTemp. C Temp. C Loss. Electric Oil Gas 0 20 6.96 19.28p 8.14p 5.47p 5 20 5.22 14.46p 6.11p 4.10p 10 20 3.48 9.63p 4.07p 2.73p 15 2G 1.74 4.82p 2.O4p 1.36p 3. F or shutters according to the invention with a 13 mm core, trapping a 20 mm layer of air acainst a 6 mm sheet of glass U 0.9 watts metre C .External Interanl Heat Heating CostTemp. C Temp. C Loss. Electric Oil Gas 0 20 2.39 6.62p 2.79p 1.87p 5 20 1.79 4.95p 2.09p 1.41p 15 20 1.19 3.30p 1.39p 0.94p 20 20 0.60 1.66 0.70p 0.47p The heat lors figures refer to the number of kilowatts loss in 18 hours through a window area of 10 square metres. The fuel costs are based on domestic tariffs of 2.71 per kilowatt of electricity, 16.8p per Thern of Natural Gas 1500 Therms per year and 36p per gallon of oil and assumed efficiency of Electricity 98 , Gas 70 and Oil 65 All the U values were calculated in accordance withBuilding Research Establishment digest No. 108 entitled Standardised U values dated Auust 1969, and were based on normal standard exposure. The double and single glazing U values are in accordance with Building ResearchEstablishment digest No. 140 entitled Double glazing and double windows dated April 1972. The U value of windows fitted with the shutters according to the invention are comparable, when the shutters are closed, to the U value of the external wall and during wInter cold zones around windows can be drastically reduced. Depending on the thickness of the shutters, the location and exposure of the windows, the internal temperature and the type of fuel use for heating, the return by fuel savings on the capital expenditure on the shutters can vary considerably. Based on Building Research Establishment digest No. 190 entitled Heat loss fro buildings dated June 1976 it has been calculated that typical figures based on current prices night be Electricity, capital recovered in 1.1 years Oi , capital recovered in 2.5 years and Gas, capital recovered in 3.7 years. In additicn to providinga thermal insulation screen, the shutters provide additional privacy and security against unwanted intrusion. The invention is not restricted to the details of the feremoing emboliment. Although the shutters shown are specifically designed for mming ont inside of the class, the shutters can if desired be nale or covered with wather resistant materials and be adapted for mounting externally. The external surface of the shutters may be light in colour and or reflective so that the shutters tend not to lose heat outwardly when they are used to retain heat within a building and also tend not to absorb heat from the outside when they are used to keep a building cool. If desired the sealing strips 29 and 30 nay be replaced SLM sealing strips mounted on the shutters themselves. Tnis simplifies the installation of the shutters since there is no need to attach the sealing strips to the window recess. For exemple the upper and lower edge of each panel may be capped by an elongate member having the cross section shown inFigure 10. Each capping member has a first channel 34 to receive the panel, and a second T shaped channel 35. When the panels of a shutter have been hinged together the shutter is opened out so that the panels lie in the sare plane.In this position the channels 35 of the respective carping members co opera e to define a first substantially continuous T shaped channel extending along the upper edge of the shutter and a mecond substantially continous T shaped chennel extending along the lower edge of the shutter. A lengtn of flexible wiping sealing strip is then fed through each substantially continuous channel to extend along the full length of each channel, the strip having the cross section shown in Figure 11. The foot 36 engages in the T skaped channel, the blade 37 extending from the channel to provide a wiping seal to engage inuse with a face of the windo recess.Each strip is sufficiently flexible and resilient to permit the shutters to be folded into the onen position, each strip ing up e zi zer or concertina shape matching of the onen sh tters, flexing and slight stretcking of the strips occuring in the vicinity of the hinges. Instead of manufacturing the panels as sholfn, the panels may be manufactured by extruding a hollow rectangular cross section, with or without internal stiffening ribs or webs, cutting the extrusion into lengths equal to the desired length of the shutters, and filling the interior of each length of extrusion with thermal insulation foam. For example the lower edge of eachvextrusion can be capped, e.g. using an adhesively secured capping member as shown in Figure 10. Liquid foam creating material can then be inserted into the extrusion, and when the materials have foamed up to fit the extrusion, the upper edges can be capped by adhesively securing a further capping member.Hinges may be formed by extruding the plastics material such that there is a continuous tube at each Zonrituzinal edge of the rectangular cross section of the extrusion. Selected portions of the tubes can then be cut away such that when the panels are fitted together tubular portions of one panel register with tubular portions of an adjacent panel to form a substantially continuous tube along which a piano hinge type hinge pin can be passed to pivotally interconnect the panels. Alternatively the extrusion may be formed such that erich longitudinal edge is provided with a continuous groove with serrated walls to receive a hinge of the form shown in Figure 7. It may be inconvenient to make a number of extrusions of differing cross sectional dimensions to enable shutters to be manufactured to fit a variety of different windows, but the same effect can be ac icved by making each skutter from an appotri te number of standard size panels and then ra inr ur. n Y shortfall in dimensions with one smaller panel. Ttis panel may be manufactured by cutting one of the extrusions longitudinally to reduce its width and then capping the cut edge with a sealing carping member such as shown in Figure 10 or, if a seal is not required at that location, with a plain capping strip having the cross section shove inFigure 12. Another possibility which results from fitting the upper and lower sealing strips to the panels rather than to the window recess is that shutters can be made in standard sizes and the shutters can be arranged to close across window recesses of varying widths by varying the extent to which the shutters adept a concertina or zig zag position when closed.Indeed a shutter which is not in a planar position hen closed may give a more pleasing visual effect. Although the shutters are shown mounted on the opposite sides of a window, they may be mounted at the top and bottom of a window so that the hinges extend horizostally. Alternatively there may be a single shutter and the shutter may be attached to the top or botto of a indo. Instead of being arranged to fold together in a concertina or zig zag fashion, the panels making up a shutter be be arranged so that the shutter can be wound up into the collapsed position. The shutter may for example be windable around a storage drum or shaft. ith such an arrangement it is preferred that the width of each navel is no wider than 5 to 6 . If the panels are wider than this, then the rolled up skutter has an excessively large radius. It is not essential to use four panels for each shutter, and any desired number of panels may be used, although it s referred that an even number is used, for example , , 6, or 8 penels. Although the use of polyisocyanurate foam is preferred, other thermal insulation material may be used, for example polyurethene foam, or foamed polystyrene. Instead of being built on b timber frame, the panels may be built on e frame of plastics material or metel, or a combination of materials. Instade of using wiping seals, concession seals may be user in which a strip of sealing material is compres ed batreen two members to form the seal.