# Bottle conveying apparatus.

## Abstract
Disclosed is a bottle conveying apparatus for stand up orientation of bottles, which has a minimum of moving parts, and includes an assembly of side gripping belts 36, 38 substantially parallel to a stand up chute 28 . The belts 36, 38 are driven at speeds commen surate with the bottles speed while coming from an alignment chute 26 or entering the stand up chute 28 . For stand up orientation of bottles the assembly of belts is adjustable relative to the stand up chute. The ap paratus consists of means to deliver bottles to the alignment chute and means to remove bottles which have been stood up. Furthermore, an apparatus for alignment of bottles without moving parts is disclosed, which includes an assembly of trough 26 and slide surface 106 . The bottles descend the assembly under the influence of gravity. Aligned bottles proceed as directed by the trough whereas non aligned bottles are diverted away from the trough.

## Claims
Patent Claims i. A bottle conveying apparatus coxlSiiö an apiarat lS for orientation of bottles and their placement in a base down configuration on a conveyor belt, and or an apparatus for te aligning of bottles in a base leading or neck leading configuration, and or an apparatus for the stand up of bottles and their placement in a base down configuration on a surface, with means for holding and conveying the bottles, means for longitudinally aligning the bottles and means for orienting the bottles base down on conveying means, characterised by means 26 for aligning said conveyed bottles 11 so th at the major axis of said bottles is parallel to the direction of movement, and means 36, 2 8 to impart differential forces to the leading and trailing portions of said bottles 11 so as to cause each of these bottles to be uprighted base end down. 2. Apparatus according to claim 1, characterised in that said means 6, 38 to impart differential forces are a first pair of side gripping belts 36 disposed over a stand up chute 28 being provided with a transition 114 for engaging said leading or trailing portions of said bottles 11 , and or a second pair of side gripping belts 38 overlapping said first pair of side gripping belts 36 , whereby preferably said first pair of side gripping belts 36 operates at a faster speed than said second pair of side gripping belts 38 . 3. Apparatus according to claim 1, characterised by deflection means 2g dispo sed upstream of and above said alignment means 26 so that said bottles 11 move dolfnwardly and are deflected from the direction of movement to the alignment means 26 , wherein said deflection means preferably comprise a plow 29 disposed above the alignment means to engage a jamming bottle, said plow 29 being fixedly mounted and angularly dispo sed so as to engage a jam up bottle. 4. Apparatus according to claim 3, characterised by a trough 25 disposed below said plow 29 for collecting said bottle 11 deflected by said plow, and means for conveying said deflected bottles from said trough to said first conveying means 14 . 5. Apparatus according to claim 2, characterised by an exit conveyor 20 disposed downstream of the exit belts 38 , and means to move said exit conveyor 20 at about the same speed of the exit belts 38 , said belts 36, 38 being preferably angularly disposed so that said bottles 11 are influenced by gravity, and said exit conveyor 20 being preferably horizontally disposed so as to support said oriented bottles 11 in an upright position. 6. Apparatus according to claim 2, characterised in that said belts 36, 38 are parallel to the direction of movement and said overlapping is at about the middle of the alignment means 26 , said overlap disposition preferably being one wherein the exit belts 38 are disposed above therespective entrance belts 36 . 7. Apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, characterised by said differential movement means further comprising entrance belt means 36 and exit belt means 38 for engaging the sides of the bottle 11 undergoing stand up orientation, and means to move each of said belt means, wherein the entrance belt means speed is greater than the exit belt means speed, said differential movement means preferably having limited mechanical elements, said elements consisting of overlapping belts frictionally engaging the side portions of the bottle and means to move said belts at differential speeds. 8. Apparatus according to claim 1, characterised by a horizontally disposed exit conveyor 20 , wherein said means to impart differential speeds being angularly disposed to said means to convey said bottles 11 , and both of said latter said means being annularly disposed to said horizontally disposed exit conveyor. 9. Bottle conveying apparatus comprising an apparatus for orientation of bottles and their placement in a base down configuration on a conveyor belt, and or an appratus for the aligning of bottles in a base leading or neck leading configuration, and or an apparatus for the stand up of bottles Lld their placement in a base down configuration on a surface, with means for holding and conveying the bottles, means for longitudinally aligning the bottles and means for orienting the bottles base down on conveying means, characterised by a a downwardly sloping trough 25 for receiving said bottle 11 , said trough 25 causing said bottle 11 entering it to align its major axis with the general direction of said trough 25 and having said bottle 11 move along said trough, b a slide surface 106 fixed to an edge of said trough 25 and being sloped upwardly from said trough so that said bottles 11 placed on a portion of said slide surface remote from said edge are caused to slide towards said trough, and c a plow 29 affixed to the bottom most portion of said trough 25 in a predetermined position so as to divert a non aligned bottle 11 from a path followed by said aligned bottle whereby a portion of randomly aligned bottles placed onto said side surface 108 leave from said downwardly sloping trough 25 in a base leading or neck leading condition. 10. Apparatus according to claim 9, characterised by a supply conveyor for supplying said bottles 11 to said slide surface 106 , and or a return chute 27 , whereby said nonaligned bottles 11 are returned to hopper 12 , and or a wall 108 , which is part of said trough 25 and is movable whereby said trough dimension can be changed to clear a jam of said trough. 11. Bottle conveying apparatus comprising an apparatus for orientation of bottles and their placement in a base down con f Jguftion on 9 conveyor bel f nod n anparat fo the ol n ing of bottles in a base leading or neck leading configuration, and or an apparatus for the stand up of bottles and their placement in a base down configuration on a surface, with means for holding and conveying the bottles, means for longitudinally aligning the bottles and means for orienting the bottles base down on conveying means, characterised by a a stand up chute portion 28 for receiving said bottles 11 in a base leading or neck leading condition, b an exit chute portion 38 for receiving said bottles 11 in a base down condition, said exit chute being disposed above said stand up chute 28 , c a transition portion 114 between said exit chute 38 and stand up chute 28 , and d a pair of movable side gripping belts 36, 38 110 being dis posed so as to overlap said stand up portion 28 , said exit portion and said transition portion, whereby bottles entering base leading or neck leading are caused to stand up as they exit, wherein said stand up chute portion preferably is substantially parallel to said side gripping belts, and wherein preferably said exit chute slopes upwardly from said transition and comprises a moving surface conveyor 20 . 12. Apparatus according to claim 11, characterised in that a retard finger device 34 is disposed above said moving surface conveyor, and that said transition 114 consists of said stand up portion being disposed so as to abut said moving surface conveyor, or alternatively said transition 114 consists of a step having it s vertical portion sloping towards said exit chute and the lower edges of said vertical portion affixed to said stand up chute and the horizontal portion of said step being said exit chute. 13. Apparatus according to claim 11, characterised in that said side gripping belts 36, 38 are moved at substantially the same speed as said moving conveyor 20 and preferably are mechanically driven by said moving conveyor 20 , and that the angle between said side gripping belts and said exit chute is adjustable. 14. Apparatus according to claim 11, characterised in that said side gripping belts 36, 38 consist of two pairs of substantially overlapping and parallel belts 36 and 38 , wherein preferably a first pair of side gripping belts 35 is disposed substantially parallel to said stand up chute 28 and a second pair of side gripping belts 38 are disposed over said exit chute, and or wherein said first pair of belts 36 is operated at a higher speed than said second set of belts 38 , which second set is operated as substantially the speed of a moving conveyor 20 . 15. Apparatus according to claim 14, characterised in that the angle between said second set of belts 38 and said moving con veyor 20 is adjustable and the overlap of said first and said second belts 36, 38 can be adjusted relative to said transition portion 114 , and that said first and second side gripping belts preferably are mechanically driven by said moving conveyor.

## Description
BOTTLE CONVOYING APPARATUSThis invention relates generally to bottle conveying apparatus.Specifically, this invention relates to an apparatus for orientation of bottles and their placement in a base down configuration on a conveyor belt, an apparatus for the aligning of bottles in a base leading or neck leading configuration, and an apparatus for the stand up of bottles and their placement in a base down configuration on a surface. While the invention is subject to a wide range of applications, it is especially suited for orientation of bottles preparatory to further processing of the bottles.Prior art machines are available for orientation of bottles and other items.US Patent 2.159.099, to Qusmma, discloses a can aligning means which comprises a gate for preventing stacked cans from impinging on the segregating bars. The gate simply applies a retarding force to the stacked can permitting the bottom can to proceed in its original direction.US Patent 3.598.223, to Lauer, discloses a pear halve orienting means which comprises a chute for longitudinally aligning the pears and turning them face down.US Patent 3. 24.773 to Cross employs conveyor belts to hold the bottles and convey them past orienting fixtures 1r crier to stand the bottles base down.US Patent 3.726.387 to Krooss describes an apparatus wl lich employs a pin to reorient neck leading bottles to a base leading condition. US Patent 3.690.437, to Kammann, discloses an apparatus for aligning and arranging bottles in an upright position. There is ohni the use of a chute for longitudinal alignment of the bottles and the reversal of neck leading bottles by a catch member as the bottle drops onto a conveyor belt.US Patent 3.868.012, to Kinsley, discloses an apparatus which employs a chute to longitudinally align bottles and then has a pneumatically operated projection which flips the bottle.US Patent 4.148.390, to Ionesco, discloses a chute for longitudinally aligning bottles and side gripping discs in conjunction with a lever to invert bottles if required, so they sit on a conveyor belt base down. A pair of side gripping belts ensure that the bottles are well seated on the conveyor belt.US Patent 4.208.701, to lonesco, discloses a chute for longitudinal alignment of bottles and radial side gripping discs in conÅaunction with a levered hook to invert bottles. The inverting process ensures that all bottles placed upside down on the belt conveyor are based against the conveyor.While the above discussed inventions are also directed to align ment stand up it is an object of the present invention to provide a more direct and more economic manufacture, is less subject to malfunction and therefore, requires a minimum of maintenance.Furthermore, it is an object of the present invention to provide an improved bottle stand up orientation apparatus, having fewer moving mechanical elements, and an improved bottle alignment apparatus having no moving mechanical elements.It is a further object of the present invention to provide an apparatus, which provides a reliable positive acting bottle stand up orientation and a positive acting bottle alignment device. A bottle conveying apparatus according to the present invention is characterised by means for aligning said conveyed bottles so that the major axis of said bottles is parallel to the direction of movement, and means to impart differential forces to the leading and trailing portions of said bottles so as to cause each of these bottles to be uprighted base end down.Furthermore, a bottle conveying apparatus according to the present invention is characterised by a downwardly sloping trough for receiving said bottle, said trough causing said bottle entering it to align its major axis with the general direction of said trough and having said bottle move along said trough, and a slide surface fixed to an edge of said trough and being sloped upwardly from said trough sothat said bottles placed on a portion of said slide surface remote from said edge are caused to slide towards said trough, and a plow affixed to the bottom most portion of said trough in a predetermined position so as to divert a non aligned bottle from a path followed by said aligned bottle whereby a portion of randomly aligned bottles placed onto said side surface leave from said downwardly sloping trough in a base leading or neck leading condition.In addition, a bottle conveying apparatus according to the present invention is characterised by a stand up chute portion for receiving said bottles in a base leading or neck leading condition, an exit chute portion for receiving said bottles in a base down condition, said exit chute being disposed above said stand up chute, a transition portion between said exit chute and stand up chute, and a pair of movable side gripping belts being disposed so as to overlap said stand up portion, said exit portion and said transition portion, whereby bottles entering base leading or neck leading are caused to stand up as they exit.Further embodiments of the present invention are described wits the subclaims. Accordillgly, there has been provided an apparatus to convey and stand up orient bottles, for the packaging industry, which apparatus has fewer moving parts than prior art machines, and yet is positive acting with high reliability. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS FIG. 1, is a top plan view of the bottle orienting apparatus of the present invention FIG. lA, shows an alternate arrangement for the stand up mechanism FIG. 2, shows a side plan view of the bottle orienting apparatus of the present invention FIG. 2A, shows the first alternate arrangement for the stand up mechanism FIG. 3, shows a side view of the stand up mechanism and FIG. 4, shows a top plan view of the stand up mechanism FIG. 5, shows a top view of the alignment chute FIG. 5A, shows a cross section of FIG. 5 viewed in the direction of arrows 5A SA FIG. SB, shows a cross section of FIG. 5 viewed in the direction of arrows SB SB and FIG. 6, shows a side view of a second alternate arrangement for the stand up mechanism partially cut away to show the stand up chute. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The apparatus of the present invention provides positive acting stand up orientation to bottles by imparting differential speed frictional engagement to the sides of the bottle while moving downwardly under the influence of gravity. Differential speed engagement is in,parte o the bottles. by entrance and exit belts in parallel, overlapping disposition, with the entrance belts moving faster than the exit belts, carrying an uprighting action to the bottle. For a better understanding of the present invention, together with other and further objects therefor, reference is made to the following description taken in conjunction with accompanying drawings while its scope will be pointed out in the appended claims.DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS A bottle conveying apparatus 10 comprises in general terms, a hopper 12 feeding bottles to a first conveyor 14.First conveyor 14 drops the bottles into a return chute 27 from which the bottles slide onto a second conveyor 16. Second conveyor 16 transfers bottle 11 onto the bottom part of third conveyor 18 which lifts bottle 11. Third conveyor 18 then transfers bottle 11 to an alignment chute 26. Bottles 11 which are not aligned by chute 26 are deflected by a plow 29 onto the return chute 27 for recycling. Bottles 11 which are aligned by chute 26 enter a stand up belt unit 24 and are placed base down on fourth conveyor 20. Specifically, reference to FIG. 1 and FIG. 2 generally shows a bottle conveying appratus 10. Bottle conveying appratus 10 has a hopper 12 for storing and feeding of a bottle 11 to the bottom portion of a first conveyor 14. The arrow at the bottom portion of first conveyor 14 illustrates the general flow of bottles 11. Bottle 11 then is carried by first conveyor 14 and dropped onto a side chute 27. Again, this is illustrated by an arrow at the top portion of first conveyor 14. Bottle 11 slides down inclined side chute 27 and is deflected by a first baffle 19 onto a second conveyor 16.Second conveyor 16 moving in the direction of the arrow shown causes bottle 11 to hit and be deflected by a second baffle 21.Second baffle 21 causes bottle 11 to engage a third conveyor 18 which moves in the direction of the arrows shown. Third conveyor 18 lifts bottle 11 from the location of second conveyor 16 to the top of an alignment chute 26. Alignment chute 26 has a third baffle 23 which redirects bottle 11 from third conveyor 18 onto alignment chute 26. Alignment chute 26 has a trough 25 associated with it for the alignment of bottle 11, as is shown.The bottle 11 may have another bottle 11 stacked upon it as is illustrated in the mid portion of alignment chute 26. As the two bottles slide down alignment chute 26 under the influence of gravity, the topmost bottle 11 strikes a plow 29. Plow 29 causes topmost bottle 11 to be deflected into the arrow chute 27. A fourth baffle 31 is placed on top of plow 29 to further ensure that bottles 11 are deflected into arrow chute 27 unless they have been captured by trough 25. Bottles 11 which slide down trough 25 may do so base leading or neck leading as shown. In either case, bottle 11 enters a stand up chute 28 which is located in the area of a stand up belt unit 24 which will be more fully described later.Upon entering the stand up belt unit 24, bottle 11 is manipulted by the belting and exits base down on a fourth conveyor 20.Bottle 11 which may be unstable and may fall off of fourth conveyor 20 and be returned to second conveyor 16 for recycling.Fourth conveyor 20 carries the stable bottles 11 around to a fifth conveyor 22 for further processing. FIG. 1A and FIG. 2A show a first alternate stand up belt unit 24A arranged in the same manner as stand up belt unit 24 and having in addition a post pair 32 to which is attached a retard finger pair 34. The function of retard finger pair 34 will be described in greater detail later in the body of this specification. The stand up belt unit 24 is shown in greater detail in FIG. 3 and FIG. 4. FIGS. 3 and 4 will be described together, since FIG. 3 is a side plan view of the stand up belt unit 24, and FIG. 4 is a top plan view of the stand up belt unit 24 showing the same parts. A belt unit side plate 35 and 35A form the sides of stand up belt unit 24. The plates 35 and 35A are fastened together by a pair of belt unit spacers 37. Each of the side plates 35 and 35A has an elongated slot 33 so as to permit the adjustment of stand up belt unit 24 with respect to a first drive sprocket 30. Mounted on first drive sprocket 30 is fourth conveyor 20 which is positioned between side plates 35 and 35A.A first shaft 39 is permitted to protrude through side plates 35 and 35A by slots 33. Mounted on first shaft 39 is a second drive sprocket 44 for transmitting power to stand up belt unit 24. The second drive sprocket 44 provides power to and drives a sprocket chain 48 which also engages a first idler sprocket 40, a second idler sprocket 46 and a first driven sprocket 42.First idler sprocket 40 and second idler sprocket 46 are mounted on a first support shaft 102 and a second support shaft 104, respectively. The arrangement of drive chain 48, as shown, permits the horizontal adjustment of stand up belt unit 24 without loss of drive chain 48 tension. It is easily seen that stand up belt unit 24 can also be rotated about first shaft 39 as required without loss of drive chain 48 tension. First driven sprocket 42 is mounted on a first drive shaft 43 which drives a gear box 50 and 50A. Each gear box 50 and 50A is tffid to its re pec .ve side plate 35 and 35A.Each respective gear box 50 and 50A drives a fourth shaft 70 and 70A. Fourth shaft 70 and 70A are respectively suported concentrically by first post 58 and 58A so that fourth shaft 70 and 70A is free to rotate. First post 58 and 58A are respectively affixed ta a first support block 52 and 52A which are in turn fixed to respective side plates 35 and 35A. Similarly, a second support block 54 and 54A and a third support block 56 and 56A are affixed to respective side plates 35 and 35A, as shown. At the end of each first post 58 and 58A and remote from first support blocks 52 and 52A is a third arm 82 and 82A for support of a fifth shaft 72 and 72A. Third arm 82 and 82A are adjustable so that the distance between shafts 70 and 72, and 70A and 72A can be adjusted Fixed to first shaft 72 and 72A is a second small pulley 94 and 94A. Shaft 72 and 72A also has affixed a first intermediate pulley 98 and 98A and a fourth large pulley 100 and 100A, as shown. A first small pulley 92 and 92A is affixed to fourth shaft 70 and 70A and is connected by an exit drive belt 74 and 74A to the second small pulleys 94 and 94A, thereby enabling the fifth shafts 72 and 72A to rotate. Pulleys 98 and 98A are connected by means of entrance drive belts 76 and 76A to a third small pulley 96 and 96A for the driving of a third shaft 68 and 68A. The third shafts 68 and 68A are rotationally supported by a second arm 80 and 80A. Second arm 80 and 80A are adjustable by means not shown. Also mounted on third shaf. 66 and 68A are a collar 86 and 86A, a third large pulley 90 and 9v r r a large pulley 88 and 88A. Second large pulley 88 and 88A is free to move rotationally independent of the movement of third shaft 68 and 68A.An exit belt 38 and 38A is supported between pulleys 88 and 88A, and 100 and 100A, as shown. Second arm 80 and 80A are supported in a fixed but adjustable position by a second post 60 and 60A, which posts are supported by second support blocks 54 and 54A. Third large pulleys 90 and 90A are connected to a first large pulley 84 and 84A by an entrance belt 36 and 36A, thereby making entrance belt 36 and 36A operative. First large pulleys84 and 84A are fixed to a second shaft 66 and 66A for support of the large pulley 84 and 84A. Second shaft 66 and 66A are rotationally supported by a first arm 78 and 78A. First arm 78 and 78A are in turn supported by a third post 62 and 62A affixed to third support block 56 and 56A. Collars 86 and 86A are used to limit the axial movement of second shafts 66 and 66A. FIG. 5 shows details of the alignment chute portion 26. Those items which have been previously described will not be again described, what is shown new in Fig. 5 is a first slide surface 106 and an outer wall 108. Fig. 5A shows a cross section taken through 5A 5A ofFIG. 5 and viewed in the direction of the arrows 5A 5A . Here is seen the downward slope of first slide surface 106 from the level of third conveyor 18 to the trough 25. Also shown is the bottle 11 which has been captured by the trough 25 as well as the bottle 11 in return chute 27. Fig. 5B shows a cross section 5B 5B of Fig. 5 under the aforementioned conditions. Here is seen the bottle 11 resting against outer wall 108. The bottle 11 has slid down slide surface 106. As bottle 11 moves down the slope of the alignment chute it will be captured by trough 25 or be deflected by plow 29. Fig. 6 shows a side view of a second alternate standup unit 24C partially cut away. Stand up unit 24C is similar in design to stand up unit 24 and components common to both units have already been described with reference to Figs. 3 and 4, and are denoted by suffic C. Those items which are new are a stand up belt pair 110 seen to run the length of unit 24C. The cut away portion of unit 24C makes more clear the stand up chute 28, the trough 25 and an alternate position 112 for trough 28.Alongside sprocket 30 is seen a step transition 114 for preferred use with this unit 24C. Other transitions are possible although not shown. The bottle conveying apparatus 10 will be more clearly understood from the following description of its operation when considered together with the various drawings. The individual drive means for the various parts of apparatus 10 are not shown. Synchronization means for the various moving portions are also not shown since they will confuse the workings of apparatus 10. Further, these drive means and synchronization means are well known in the art. Hopper 12 is loaded with bottles 11 and apparatus 10 is energized. First conveyor 14 lifts bottles 11 up its incline. The sloping construction of the bottom of hopper 12 causes bottles 11 to slide toward first conveyor 14. An arrow at the bottom most portion of first conveyor 14 shows the typical direction of bottle 11 flow. As first conveyor 14 lifts bottles 11 they are dropped off of first conveyor 14 when the bottles 11 reach the end of conveyor 14, as shown by the arrow. Bottles 11, which drop off the end of conveyor 14, fall onto side chute 27 from where they slide onto second conveyor 16. First baffle 19 causes bottle 11 to move onto the horizontal portion of second conveyor 16. Second conveyor 16 carries bottles 11 see arrow over to second baffle 21 which diverts bottles 11 onto upwardly moving third conveyor 18. The arrows on third conveyor 18 show the conveyor s direction of motion as it lifts bottles 11 to where they contact third baffle 23. Third baffle 23 directs bottles 11 in a well known manner so that the bottles 11 move in the direction shown by the arrow onto first slide surface 106. As bottles 11 slide down surface 106 they may be captured by trough 25. Bottles 11 not captured by trough 25 impinge on fourth baffle 31 and are diverted to side chute 27 for another go around. As bottle 11 is captured by trough 25 it may have another multiple bottle riding on top of it. The two slide down alignment chute 26 and the bottom bottle 11 passes under plow 29 whereas the top bottle 11 hits plow 29 and is diverted into side chute 27. The bottles 11 which are captured in trough 25 are aligned either with base leading or neck leading as shown. As each bottle 11 enters the stand up belt unit 24 it is gripped on either side by entrance belts 36. The side gripping entrance belts 36, together with side gripping exit belts 38 and stand up chute 28, cause each bottle 11 to stand on fourth conveyor 20 in a base down configuration. The applicant has found that a preferred condition is obtained by running the entrance belts 36 twice as fast as the exit belts 38. Whereby the bottle 11 will leave the exit belts 38 base down on fourth conveyor 20.In general, the applicant has discovered that stand up belt unit 24 works best when entrance belt 36 is parallel to a straight portion of stand up chute 28, as shown. The aforesaid are preferred conditions although other.conditionsXare operable. Further, exit belt 38 is shown to be at an angle with respect to the surface of four th conveyor 20, this arrangement imparts a downward component of force to the bottle 11 which ensures that it sits firmly on fourth conveyor 20. Fourth conveyor 20 and exit belt 38 are adjusted to run at the same speed. By adjusting stand up belt unit 24 horizontally about first shaft 39 and radially about shaft 39 the stand up performance of unit 24 can be varied. The drawings show that stand up chute 28 meets fourth conveyor 20 to provide a smooth transition. The stand up unit 24 will also function if there is an abrupt transition such as a step at the aforementioned point. Reference to FIGS. 1A and 2A shows that a stand up belt unit 24A may alternatejy be used. Unit 24A has a retard finger pair 34 which is designed to engage a bottle 11 as it stands up. Retard finger pair 34 is generally made of tygon tubing but may be made of other suitable materials. In some cases the bottle 11 may tend to fall forward and retard finger pair 34 will prevent the rapid movement of bottle 11 but yield to the slower movement of bottle 11 due to the fourth conveyor 20. Fig. 5 shows a portion of apparatus 10. This portion is that of alignment chute 26 and return chute 27. Alignment chute 26 employs a downwardly sloping first slide surface 106 to convey, by gravity means, the bottle 11 from the third conveyor 18 to the trough 25. Slide surface 106 is joined to trough 25 along one edge as is shown. This arrangement enables bottle li to be captured by trough 25 anywhere along the length of trough 25. The foregoing arrangement prevents a jam up of bottles 11 which might result if access to trough 25 was limited to the topmost portion of alignment chute 26. It is contemplated that alignment chute 26 can be used to align bottles 11 as shown regardless of the subsequent stand up process. Figs. 5A and 5B show additional features of how the sloping slide surface 106 causes bottles to slide toward trough 25. Fig. 6 illustrates the use of single pair of side gripping belts 110 which is used to stand up the bottle 11 entering from trough 25. Belts 110 also extend into the fourth conveyor 20 area to perform the base down placement function.Fig. 6 further illustrates the use of the sloping transition 114 which is one of the preferred transitions for the stand up chute 28. Fig. 6 also shows the alternate position 112 for the trough 25. Further any means of feeding bottles 11 into standup unit 24, 24A and or 24C will result in bottles 11 being placed base down on fourth conveyor 20. Therefore, it is contemplated that other means than shown for aligning bottles 11 can be operatively employed with stand up unit 24, 24A or 24C. It is further contemplated that the outer wall 108 portion of trough 25 may be automatically opened to relieve a jammed condition in alignment chute 26 if this feature is desirable. Thus, there has been shown and described a stand up orientation apparatus wherein axially aligned bottles are fed, one at a time, while moving downwardly by gravity to be frictionally engaged by parallel overlapping belts in which the entrance belts move faster than the exit belts so as to cause a pushing upward on the trailing portion of the bottle and a gripping on the loading portion, so as to upright the bottle. While there has been described what is at present considered to be the preferred embodiment of the invention, it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that various changes and modifications may be made therein without departing from the invention. It is, therefore, aimed in the appended claims to cover all such changes and modifications as fall within the true spirit and scope of the inve tion.