# Process for the preparation of alkyl nonadienoate esters.

## Abstract
In the process for reacting a mixture of 1,3 buta diene, carbon monoxide and a monoalkanol of the ge neral formula ROH in which R is a straight or branched chain alkyl group of from 1 to about 12 carbon atoms in the presence of, as catalyst, a palladium ligand com plex which comprises a a member selected from the group consisting of zerovalent palladium, a palladium containing composition which can provide zerovalent palladium under reaction conditions and palladium II salt, b a strong ligand consisting of tertiary phosphine having a pKa in water of not greater than about 6, and c a weak ligand consisting of tertiary phosphine hav ing a pKa in water of greater than about 6, to provide alkyl nonadienoate ester, optionaliy containing at least one phenol promoter, and if desired, an alkoxide ion.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A process for reacting a mixture of 1,3 butadiene, carbon monoxide and a monoalkanol of the general formula ROH in which R is a straight or branched chain alkyl group of from 1 to about 12 carbon atoms to provide alkyl nonadienoate esters employing as catalyst, a palladium ligand complex characterized by a A member selected from the group consisting of zerovalent palladium, a palladium containing composition which can provide zerovalent palladium under reaction conditions and palladium II salt b a strong ligand selected from the group consisting of tertiary phosphine having a pKa in water of not greater than about 6, a phosphite of the general formula R1O R2O R3O P in which each of R1, R2 and R3 is an alkyl group having at least 9 carbon atoms, an aryl group or an 123 alkaryl group, an arsine of the general formula R R R As in which each of R1 R2 and R3 have the aforestated meanings and a stibine of the general formula RÚRêR Sb in which each of R11 R2 and R3 have the aforestated meanings, the mole ratio of said strong ligand to palladium being from about 1 1 to about 3 1 and, c a weak ligand selected from the group consisting of tertiary phosphine having a pKa in water of greater than about 6,a phosphite of the general formula R4O R5O R6O P in which each of R4, R5 and R6 is an alkyl group having less than 9 carbon atoms, an arsine of the general formula R7R8R9As in which each of R7, R8 and R9 is an alkyl group having less . than 9 carbon atoms or an alkoxy group and a stibine of the 789 general formula R R R Sb in which each of R7, R8 and R9 have the aforestated meanings, the mole ratio of said weak ligand to palladium being from about 4 1 to about 100 1. 2. The process of Claim 1 wherein the strong ligand is at least one member selected from the group consisting of P CH2CH2CN 3, PPh CH2CH2CN 21 PPhR, P Odecyl OPh , EMI27.1 Ph2As CH2CH2 AsPh2, P CH2Ph 3 and AsPh3. 3. The process of Claim 1 wherein the weak ligand is at least one member selected from the group consisting ofPBu3, PPhBu2, PPh cyclohexyl 2 and P OiPr 3. 4. The process of any of Claims 1 3 wherein a catalyst promoting amount of at least one phenol promoter is in the reaction medium. 5. . The process of any of Claims 1 3 wherein alkoxide ion is in the reaction medium. 6. The process of Claim 4 wherein the phenol promoter is at least one member selected from the group consisting of 4 cyanophenol, 4,4 dhydeobenzophenone, 3,5 dichlorophenol, pyrogallol, 2 cyanophenol, 2,6 dichloeo phenol, 4 tert butylcatechol, 4,4 dihydroxydiphenyl sulfone, chlorohydroquinone, 2 chlorophenol, catechol, 3 chlorophenol, 4,4 triodiphenol, 2 fluorophenol,phloroglucinol, 4 chlorophenol, resorcinol, hydroquinone, 4,4 diphenol, 3 tertbutylphenol, quaiacol, phenol, 2 hydroxybenzophenone, 4 hydroxydiphenyl oxide, 4 nitrophenol, 2, 3 dihydroxynaphtha lene, 4,4 isopropylidenediphenol, 4 tert butylphenol, 2,6 di tert butylphenol and dioctadrcyl p cresol. 7. A palladium ligand complex for use in catalyzing the reaction of a mixture of 1, 3 butadiene, carbon monoxide and a monoalkanol of the general formula ROH in which R is a straight or branched chain alkyl group of fro I to about 12 carbon atoms to provide alkyl nonadienoate characterized by a a member selected from the group consisting of zerovalent palladium, à palladium containing composition which provides zerovalent palladium under reaction ccnditions and palladium II salt b a strong ligand selected from the group consisting of tertiary phosphine having a pKa in water of not greater than about 6, a phosphite of the general formula Rlo R2O R3O P in which each of R1, R2 and R3is an alkyl group having at least 9 carbon atoms, an aryl group or an 123 alkaryl group, an arsine of the general formula R R R As in which each of R11 R2 and R3 have the aforestated meanings 123 and a stibine of the general formula R R R Sb in which each of R1, R2 and R3 have the aforestated meanings, the mole ratio of said strong ligand to palladium being from about 1 1 to about 3 1 and, c a weak ligand selected from the group consisting of tertiary phosphine having a pKa in water of greater than about 6, a phosphite of the general formula R40 R5 0 R60 P in which each of R4, R5 and R6 is an alkyl group having less than 9 carbon atoms, an arsine of the general formula R7R8R As 8 in which each of R7, R and R9 is an alkyl group having less than 9 carbon atoms or an alkoxy group and a stibine of the general formula R7R8R9Sb in which each of R7, R8 and R9 have the aforestated meanings, the mole ratio of said weak ligand to palladium being from about 4 1 to about 100 1. 8. The palladium ligand complex of claim 7 wherein the strong ligand is at least one member selected from the group consisting of P CH2CH2CN 3, PPh CH2CH2CN 2, PPh3, P Odecyl OPh 2 EMI29.1 PH2As CII2CH2 AsPh2, P CH2Ph 3 and AsPli3. 9. The palladium ligand complex of claim 7 wherein the weak ligand is at least one member selected from the group consisting of PBu3, PPhBuz, PPh cyclohexyl 2 and P OiPr 3. 10. The palladium ligand complex of Claim 7 further containing alkoxide ion. 11. The palladium ligand complex of Claim 7 which further contains a catalyst promoting amount of at least one phenol Promoter. 12. The palladium ligand complex of Claim 11 wherein. the phenol promoter is at least one member selected from the group consisting of 4 cyanophenol, 4,4 dihydroxydiphenyl sulfone, chlorohydroquinone, 2 chlorophenol, catechol, 3 chlorophenol, 4,4 thiodiphenol, 2 fluorophenol, phloroglucinol, 4 chlorophenol, resorcinol, hydroquinone, 4,4 diphenol, 3 tertbutylphenol, quaiacol, phenol, 2 hydroxybenzophenone, 4 hydroxydiphenyl oxide, 4 nitrophenol, 2, 3 dihydroxynaphtha lene, 4,4 isopropylidenediphenol, 4 tert butylphenol, 2, 6 di tert butylphenol and dioctadecyl p cresol. 13. The palladium ligand complex of Claim 7 wherein alkoxide ion is additionally present as catalyst promoter. 14. In a process for the reaction of 1,3 butadiene, alkanol and carbon monoxide in the presence of a palladiumcontaining Group VB tertiary donor ligand catalyst composition to provide an alkyl nonadienoate ester characterized by carrying out said reaction in the presence of a catalystpromoting amount of alkoxide ion. 15. The process o.f Claim 14 wherein the Group VB tertiary donor ligand is a tertiary phosphine having a pKa 6.0. 16. The process of Claim 15 wherein the phosphine is triethylphosphine, tri n butyl phosphine, tricyclohexylphosphine, tri n octylphosphine and triphenyl phosphine. 17. The process of Claim 14 wherein the alkoxide ion is formed in situ by the reaction of an alkali metal borohydride with an alkanol and is present to the extent of about 0.1 to about 10 molar equivalents of alkoxide ion per gram atom of palladium.

## Description
PROCESS FOR THE PREPARATION OF ALKYL NONADIENOATE ESTERS This invention relates to processes fo the prepar ation of esters and, more particularly, to the one step preparation of alkyl nonadienoate esters by the reaction of 1,3 butadiene, carbon monoxide and alkanol in the presence of a palladium containing catalyst. The reaction of monoolefins and conjugated diolefins with carbon monoxide and alkanol to provide an alkyl ester is well know. Numerous catalysts have been used or proposed for this synthesis.including bis triphenylphosphine palladium chloride as in U.S. Patent No. 3,437,676 a palladium complex such as palladium diacetate with an aromatic phosPhine such as triphenylphosphine as in U.S. Patent No. 3,530,155,Jananese patent No. 72 37,934,Tsuji, et al., Tetrahedron 28, 3721 1972 and Billups, et al., J.C.S. Chem. Comm., 18 5 , 1067 1971 palladous chloride, cupric chloride and triphenylphosphine as in U.S.Patent No. 3,530,168 palladium halide in molten tetrahydrocarbylammonium or phosphonium trihalostannate II or trihalogermanate II salts as in U.S Patent Nos. 3,657,368, 3,832,391, 3,968,133, 4,038,208 and 4,042,530 palladium salt complexed with a phosphine ligand such as palladium chloride bis tXriphenylphosphine in the presence of a tin cocatalyst or promoter such as stannous chloride dihydrate as in U.S.PatentNo. 3,700,706 the palladium complex PdCl2 triphenylphosphine 2 C6H4C12 x as in U.S Patent No. 3,723,486 compounds of the formula L 2 PIXY wherein L is a phosphinite, phosphonite, thiophosphinite, or dithiophosphonite ligand, M is palladium and X and Y are chloride, bromide, iodide, various substituted and unsubstituted alkyl and aryls, cyano, SnCl3, isocyanate, thiocyanate, arol and lower persluoroalkiwl groups as in U.S. Patent Nos. 3,776,929 and 3,906,615 zerovalent palladium phosphine complex with or without added catalyst activator additional phosphine as in U.S. Patent limo. 3,780,074 and, ligand stabilized platinum II catalyst complexed with excessGroup IV B metal halide, the ligand being selected from GroupsV B and VI B of the Periodic Table as in U.S. Patent No.3,819,669. U.S. Patent Nos. 4,124,617 and 4,172,087 each describes a one step reaction of a conjugated aliphatic diene, alkanol and carbon monoxide in a nitrogen containing tertiary base and in the presence of a palladium salt tertiary phosphorus containing donor ligand as catalyst to provide an unsaturated aliphatic ester derivative thereof.Other catalyst compositions which have been disclosed for use in the aforedescribed synthesis include a combination of palladium diacetate, palladium chloride triphenylphosphine complex and additional triphenylphosphine as in Japanese Patent No.73 25,169 and, palladium diacetate and amino substituted phosphine as in Japanese Patent No. 76 149,206. It has now been surprisingly discovered that a mixture of 1,3 butadiene, carbon monoxide and a monoalkanol of the general formula ROH in which R is a straight or branched chain alkyl group of from 1 to about 12 carbon atoms can be reacted in the presence of catalyst to provide alkyl nonadienoate ester at high levels of productivity and little, if any, catalyst decomposition, employing as catalyst, a palladium ligand complex comprising a a member selected from the group consisting of zerovalent palladium, a palladium containing composition which can provide zerovalent palladium under reaction conditions and palladium II salt b a strong liand selected from the group consisting of tertiary phosphine having a p in water of not greater than about 6, a phosphite of the general formula R1OXR2OXR3O P in which each of R1, R2 and R3 is an alkyl group having at least 9 carbon atoms, an aryl group or an 123 alkaryl group, an arsine of the general formula R R R As in which each of R1, R2 and R3have the aforestated meanings and a stibine of the general formula RlR2R3Sb in which each of R1, R and R3 have the aforestated meanings, the mole ratio of said strong ligand to palladium being from about l 1to about 3 1 and, c a weak ligand selected from the group consisting of tertiary phosphine having a pKa in water of greater than about 6, a phosphite of the general formula R4O R5O R6O P in which each of R4, R5 and R6 is an alkyl group having less than 9 carbon atoms, an arsine of the general formula R789As in which each of R7, R8 and R9 is an alkyl group having less than 9 carbon atoms or an alkoxy group and a stibine of the general formula R 7R8R9 Sb in which each ofR7, R8 and R9 have the aforestated meanings, the mole ratio of said weak ligand to palladium being from about 4 1 to about 100 1. The palladium donor ligand complex of this invention can provide significantly higher levels of productivity compared to those of known and conventional catalyst systems employed in the telomerization carbonylation of 1,3 butadiene to provide alkyl nonadienoate and unlike the significant catalyst decomposition observed to have occurred in known catalyst compositions, no appreciable amount of catalyst decomposition has been detected in the catalyst compositions of this invention. It has also been discovered that the hereinabove described process can be further significantly improved by the addition to said catalyst composition of a catalyst promoting amount of at least one phenolic promoter. As such, the process and catalyst composition herein represent still a further improvement over the ester synthesis and catalyst complex described inU.S. Patent Nos. 4,124,617 and 4,172,087, the entire contents of which are incorporated by reference herein. The phenolic promoter, when added to the reaction medium, has been found to improve both reaction rate and selectivity for the desired alkyl nonadienoate i.e., productivity . The extent to which these process variables will be improved compared to the identical catalyst compositon in the absence of phenolic promoter depends upon the specific promoter chosen and its concentration. Concentrations of promoter can vary widely with mole ratios of promoter to palladium of from about 10 1 to 500 1, and preferably, from about 50 1 to about 300 1, being entirely effective. It is also within the scope of the present invention and has now surprisingly been discovered that in the reaction of 1,3 butadiene, alkanol and carbon monoxide in the presence of a catalyst composition containing a palladium component and a Group VB ligand forming component to provide an alkyl nonadienoate ester, the addition to the reaction medium of alkoxide ion, preformed or prepared in situ,.significantly increases tho yield of ester reaction product. Thus, for example, in the catalytic reaction of 1,3 butadiene, methanol and carbon monoxide to provide methyl nonadienoate according to the eauationEMI4.1 CH2 CH CH2 3 CH CHCH2COOCH3 the presence of methoxide ion in the reaction medium significanly increases the yield of this commercially important ester, for example, by a factor of from two to three times compared to the yield provided by the same reaction in the absence of methoxide ion. Broadly stated, this aspect of the process of the present invention comprises reacting 1,3 butadiene with an aliphatic alkanol of from 1 to about 12 carbon atoms in the presence of a catalytically effective amount of a catalyst composition comprising a member of the group consisting of zerovalent palldium, a palladium containing material which provides zerovalent palladium under reaction conditions and palldium II salt, and a Group VB tertiary donor ligand and a catalyst promoting amount of alkoxide ion to provide an alkyl nonadienoate ester. The alkvl nonadienoate esters produced by the process of this invention can be readily reduced by know ana conventional technigues, e.g., catalytic hydrogenation, to the corresponding alkyl nonanoate esters which are useful in the formulation of synthetic lubricants. The 1,3 butadiene employed in the present invention can vary in its degree of purity with industrial grades of this diolefin being preferred for reasons of economy and ready availability. Alkanols which are suitably co reacted with butadiene include methanol, ethanol, propanol, isopropanolr n butanol, sec butanol, tert butanol, hexanol, decanol, dodecanol, and the like. As stated above, the palladium component of the catalyst complex herein can be zero valent palladium , a palladium containing composition which will provide zerovalent palladium, i.e., will undergo reduction, under the conditions of the reaction and or a palladium II salt, with or without the additional presence of a reducing agent such as alkali metal alkoxide, alkali metal acetate and or alkali metal borollydride. Among such palladium containing compositions are included palladium II acetate, palladium II formate, palladium II octanoate, palladium II propionate, palladium acetylacetonate, palladium II bis t allyl , palladium II nitrate, palladium sulfate, and palladium II halides such as palladium chloride and palladium bromide. solar ratios of palladium to 1,3 butadiene which can be used herein can vary widely, e.g., from about 1 25 to about 1 20,000, with from about 1 2,000 to about 1 8,000 being preferred. Examples of strong ligands which are useful herein, together with the.productivities and the palladium precipitate rating a measure of catalyst decomposition of each, are given below in Table 1 as follows TABLE IEMI7.1 tb SEP Pd tb SEP Strong SEP Ligand SEP Catalyst SEP Productivity SEP Precipitate tb Lland Pd SEP SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP moles SEP ester mole SEP d hr SEP Ratio SEP int SEP a tb SEP C 7 SEP Ct SEP 3 SEP b SEP 108 SEP 0 tb PPh CH2Ch 2a 2 SEP c SEP 52 SEP 2 tb PPh3 SEP c SEP 12 SEP 1 tb P Odecvl SEP OPh 2 SEP b SEP 49 SEP 2 tb SEP 2 tb SEP d SEP 139 SEP 4 tb PLCL SEP O tb SEP 7 tb o SEP OMe 3 SEP d SEP 344 SEP 7 tb Ph2As CH2CH2 AsPh2 SEP b SEP 52 SEP 6 tb P CH2Ph 3 SEP c SEP 14.5 SEP 4 tb AsPh3 SEP e SEP 275 SEP 7 tb a On a subjective rating scale of n to 10, 0 indicates no appreciable palladium decomposition and 10 indicates gross decomposition. b Catalyst preparation cycle 8 hrs., 90 C., 500 psig CO, 10 1 PBu3 as weak ligand. Reaction 4 hrs., 110 C., 1.000 psigCo. c 95 C., 1.000 psig Co, 10 hrs. reactio, 10 1 PBu3 as weak ligand. d 100 C., 500 psig CO, 10 1 PBu3, 2 1 sodium methoxide as promoter. e 1100C., 500 psig CO, 10 1 PBu3. Examples of useful weak ligands, together with the effect on conversion of methanol and their palladium precipitate ratings, are given below in Table II as follows TABLE II Methanol Pd PrecipitateWeak Licand Ratio Conversiion Rating a PBu 10 b 30 3PPhBu2 10 b 31 3PPh cyclohexyl 2 10 b 30 1 P OiPr 3 5 c 28 3 a 1100C., 1,000 psig CO, 10 hours. b 1 1 P CH2CH2CN 3 as strong ligand. c 1 1 P OPh 2 OC10H23 as strong ligand. From the above, it can be seen that one of the most effective combinations of strong and weak ligands is that of tris 2 cyanoethyl phosphine which has a pKa in water of 1.37 and tri n butyl phosphine which has a pKa in water of 8.43.Other strong and weak phosphine ligands are given in O.A.Streuli, Analytical Chemistry, 32 8 , p. 985 July 1960 , the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein. Among the Group VB tertiary donor ligands which can be complexed with the foregoing palladium containing materials are the trivalent compounds of nitrogen, phosphorus, arsenic and antimony such as P C6H5 3, As C6H5 3, Sb C6H5 3,P CH3 2G6H5, P iso C4H9 3, P8p CH3.C6H4 3, P c C6H11 3,P OC6H5 3, P p CH3.C6H4 C6H5 2, P C6H5 2 3,4 CH3O 2C6H3 P CH3 3, P C2H5 3, P n C4H9 3, P C8H17 3, P o CH3.C6H4 3, C6H5 2As CH2 2As C6H5 2, P p Cl.C6H4 3 and P C8H17 3.Especially preferred are phosphine ligands of pKa 6.0.such as triethylphosphinc, tri n butyl phosphine, tri cyclohexylphosphine, tri n octylphosphine and triphenyl phosphine. Typical catalyst complexes include Pd OAc 22P OPh 3 Pd OAc 2 2P OEt 3 Pd OAc 2 2P p Cl .C6H4 3 Pd OAc 2 2PPh3 Pd OAc 2 p CH3.C6H4 3 Pd OAc 2 2P n Bu 3 Pd OAc 2 2P c C6H11 3 Pd OAc 2 2PEt3 Pd OAc 2 P O CH3.C6H4 3 Pd OAc 2 DIARS Pd PPh3 2 OAc 2 Pd NO3 2 2P n Bu 3Pd PPh2 3,4 CH3O 2 C3H6 2Cl2 10NaOAc PdCl2 2P n Bu 319NaOAc Pd Acac 2 2p n Bu 3, andPd OAc 2 2P C6H11 3. For optimum yields and maximum catalyst stability, at least one molar equivalent of Group vs tertiary donor ligand should be present per gram atom of palladium although greater amounts of donor ligand than this can also be used. The amount of palladium catalyst employed in the reaction is not overly critical, subject, of course, to there being a catalytically effective amount present. From 50 to 400 moles of 1,3butadiene per mole of palladium metal catalyst are advantageously utilized. It is also within the scope of the present invention to incorporate alkoxide ion in the reaction medium as a catalyst promoter and to further improve the stability of the palladium catalyst, either preformed or formed in situ by merely dissolving alkali metal or other source of chemically reactive alkali metal, e.g., alkali metal borohydride, in the selected alkanol, ROH. Alkoxide ion is formed quantitatively according to the reaction illustrated for sodium metal which is preferred EMI9.1 The alkanol chosen for conversion to the corresponding alkoxide can be any alkanol heretofore described as a reactant and advantageously is identical with said reactant. In such case, the alkoxide ion is preferably generated in sit b the addition of an amount of alkali metal calculated to provide the desired amount of ion. The amount of alkoxide ion which can be used herein can vary over fairly wide limits. Thus, for example, from about 0.1 to about 10 molar equivalents of alkoxide ion per gram atoms of palladium, and preferably, from about 0.5 to about 5 molar equivalents of alkoxide ion per gram atom of palladium, can be used with good results. The reaction herein requires at least a stoichioX metric quantity of carbon monoxide which can be supplied as a relatively pure gas or in admixture with up to 30 volume percent of an inert gas such as nitrogen, argon, neon, and the like. Optimum choice of reaction conditions will depend in part upon the nature and concentratIon of the reactants, the catalyst and the optional alkoylde. Temperatures of from about 300 to about 1500, pressures on the order of from about 100 psig to about 3,000 psig and reaction tines of up to 20 hours are suitable. It has been observed herein that employing alkoxide promotor, yield and selectivity of the telomerization carbonylation reaction for the desired ester increases with increasing carbon monoxide pressure within the range of from about 400 psig tp about 900 psig at 900C. At pressures in excess of 900 psig, selectivity for the desired ester has been observed to increase while yield decreases.Although catalyst stability can be somewhat of a problem in the regime below about 900 psig and at an operating temperature of about 900C, it has been found to be reasonably good above this level of pressure. In one procedure which can be used to obtain the catalyst herein all reaction ingredients with the exception of the 1,3 butadiene, i.e., palladium containing component, strong ligand, weak ligand and alkanol, are added to a reactor, the reactor is purged and pressurized to 500 psig carbon monoxide pressure and heated to 900C for 1 to 8 hours. Thereafter, the reactor is cooled to ambient temperature, vented and 1,3 butadiene added with the reaction being conducted as described above and as illustrated in the following examples. EXAMPLE 1 This example is illustrative of process for preparing methyl nonadienoate carried out in accordance with the disclosure of U.S. Patent Nos. 4,124,617 or 4,172,087. To a 300 cc stirred autoclave was added 80 ml quinoline, 40 ml methanol, 2.67 mmoles Pd OAc 2, and 5.5 mmoles PBu3. Eutadiene 354 mmoles was then charged to the reactor and the reactor pressurized to 700 psig with CO. The reactor was then heated at 110 C. for 6 hours. Analysis of the product solution by gas liquid chromatography showed 173 mmoles ester present. The palladium precipitate rating was 10. EXAMPLE 2 Contrasting with the results of Example 1 was the high productivity and the low palladium precipitate rating obtained in accordance with the process of the present invention as illustrated in this example. To a 300 cc stirred autoclave was added 0.15 mmolePd OAc 2, 0.15 mmole tris 2 cyanoethyl phosphine, 1.5 mmole tributylphosphine and 59 ml methanol. The autoclave was pressurized to 500 psig with CO and heated at 900C. for 8 hours.After cooling, the autoclave was vented and 462 irirnoles 1,3butadiene added. The autoclave was pressurized to 1000 psig with CO and heated at 1100C. for 4 hours Analysis of the product solution showed 64.7 mmoles of ester. The palladium precipitate rating was 0. E EWIPLE 3 To a 300 cc Magnedrive autoclave was added 0.033 g 0.15 mmole Pd OAc 2, 0.087 g 0.45 mmole tris 2 cyanoethyl phosphine, 0.910 g 4.5 mmoles tri n butylphosphine, GÏ ml methanol and 5 ml anisole as internal standard . The reactor was purged three times with CO, pressurized to 500 psig with CO and heated at 900C for 2 hours After cooling to room temperature the reactor was vented. To the reactor was added 63 g 1170 mmoles of butadiene and the reactor heated at 110 C under a constant 500 psig CO atmosphere for 4 hours. A trace of palladium decomposition vas observed and wax formation was moderate. Analysis of the product solution by CLC showed 9 mmoles octatriene, 27 mmoles methoxyoctadiene and 10 mmoles methyl nonadienoate. EXAMPLE 4 This example demonstrates the advantage of the use of the alkoxide sodium methoxide over the previous example. To a 300 cc Magnedrive autoclave was added 0.910 g 4.5 mmoles tri n butylphosphine, 0.033 g 0.15 mmole palladium acetate, 0.087 g 0.45 mmole tris 2 cyanoethyl phosphine, 0.54 g 10 mmoles sodium methoxide, 46 ml methanol and 5 ml anisole internal standard . The reactor was purged three times with CO, pressurized to 500 psig with CO and heated at 900C for 2 hours. After cooling to room temperature, the reactor was vented. To the reactor was added 62.8 g 1260 mmoles butadiene and the reactor was heated at 1100C under a constant 500 psig CO atmosphere for 4 hours. No palladium decomposition was observed and wax formation was moderate. Analysis of the product solution by GLC showed 6 mmoles octatriene, 13 mmoles methoxyoctadiene and 35 mmoles methyl nonadienoate. EXAMPLE This example demonstrates the use of a zero valent palladium complex as a catalyst. A solution of zerovalent palladium complex was prepared by reduction of palladium chloride 0.5334 g in the presence of a four fold excess of tributyl phosphine 2.6186 g using hydrazine as a reducing agent. To a portion of this methanolic solution was added a stoichiometric amount of diphenyl decyl phosphite 0.2230 g . An aliquot of this solution containing 0.1805 mmolesPd was charged to a 71 cc glass lined Parr bomb along with 7 ml methanol and 5 g butadiene. The bomb was filled to 1000 psig with CO and heated at 950C for 10 hours. A trace of palladium decomposition was observed after reaction. Analysis of the product solution showed the presence of 4.55 moles methyl monadienoate or 25.5 moles ester mole palladium. EXN pLE 6 This example demonstrates the use of a zerovalent palladium catalyst. To a 71 cc glass lined Parr bomb was added 0.0995 g 5 Pd on carbon, 0.0168 g triphenyl phosphite, 0.0954 g tributyl phosphine, 10 ml methanol and 9 g butadiene. The bomb was filled to 1,C00 psig with CO and heated at 900C for 12 hours. The product solution was bright yellow indicating a soluble palladium complex. Analysis of the product solution showed the presence of 4.8 mmoles methyl nonadienoate or 100 moles methyl nonadienoate mole Pd. EXAMPLE 7 To a 300 cc glass lined stirred autoclave were charged 0.0155 g 0.069 mmoles Pd OAc 2, 0.0321 g 0.083 mmoles P OPh 2 O decyl , 0.1062 g 0.526 mmoles PEu3 and 30 ml methanol. The autoclave was sealed and 30 g butadiene were added with a syringe. The reactor was then heated at 900C. under a constant CO pressure of 500 psig for 12 hours.Stirrer speed was maintained at 1,500 rpm. The recovered product solution 38 ml was bright yellow and contained 23 mmoles of methyl nonadienoate. selectivity to the ester was 97 and butadiene conversion was 8 . No catalyst decomposition was observed. EXAMPLE 8 To a 71 cc glass lined Parr Autoclave were charged 0.014 g 0.062 mmoles Pd OAc 2, 0.0152 g 0.079 mmoles tris 2 cyanoethyl phospine, 0.1562 g 0.773 mmoles PBu3, 10 ml methanol and 9 g butadiene. The autoclave was then pressurized to 1000 psig with CO and shaken at 900C. for 12 hours. The recovered product solution 12.5 ml was bright yellow and contained 19 mmoles of methyl nonadienoate.Selectivity to the ester was 89 and butadiene conversion was 22 . No catalyst decomposition was observed. EXAMPLES 9 39 In the following examples, the reaction conditions were identical except that in Example 9, no promoter was added so as to provide a baseline for comparison. The reaction conditions were as follows Reaction Temperature 1100C. Reaction Pressure 800 psigReaction Time 4 hoursMethanol. Conc. 7.5 mol L 1,3 Butadiene 7.5 mol LPd OAc 2 0.001 mol LP C2H4CN 3 0,003 mol L Bu3P 0.01 mol L Phenol Promoter 0.08 mol L To prepare the catalyst,all of the above ingredients except the 1,3 butadiene were heated for 8 hours under about 700 psig carbon monoxide pressure at 900C. The solution was then cooled, vented and 1,3 butadiene was added, followed by additional carbon monoxide and the reaction medium was heated to reaction temperatures. The results of the reactions, given in descending order of productivity for methyl nonadienoate, are set forth in Table III as follows TABLE III mmoles Methyl NonadienoateExample Phenol Promoter after 4 hours 9 none control 81 10 4 cyanophenol 174 11 4,4 dihydroxybenzophenone 169 12 3,5 dichlorophenol 163 13 pyrogallol 160 14 2 cyanophenol 156 15 2, 6 dichlorophenol 155 16 4 tert butylcatechol 155 17 4,4 dihydroxydiphenyl sulfone 149 18 chlorohydroquinone 148 19 2 chlorophenol 137 20 catechol 136 21 3 chlorophenol 135 22 4,41 thiodiphenol 130 23 2 fluorophenol 128 24 phloroglucinol 120 25 4 chlorophenol 114 26 resorcinol 110 27 hydroquinone 107 28 4,4 diphenol 104 29 3 tert butylphenol 99 30 quaiacol 97 31 phenol 94 32 2 hydroxybenzophenone 94 33 4 hydroxydiphenyl oxide 90 34 4 nitrophenol 89 35 2, 3 dihydroxynaphthalene 89 36 4,4 isopropylidenediphenol 87 37 4 tert butylphenol 86 38 2,6 di tert butylphenol 86 39 dioctadecyl p cresol 83 Of the following examples, Example 40 illustrates the use of a known palladium organophosphorus ligand catalyst complex and Example 41 illustrates the use of substantially similar catalyst but containing alkoxide ion in accordance with this aspect of this invention. EXAMPLE 40 This example demonstrates the use of the catalyst system and conditions disclosed in Japanese Patent 72 37,934. To a 71 cc glass lined Parr autoclave were charged 0.0058 g Q..026 mmoles palladium acetate, 0.0335 g .0.128 mmoles triphenylphosphine, 10 ml methanol and 5 g butadiene.The autoclave was pressurized to 1000 psig with CO and shaken at 1100C for 10 hours. Analysis of the product solution byGLC gas liquid chromatography . showed the presence of 0.58 mmoles methyl nonadienoate. Large amount of palladium decomposition was observed. EXAMPLE 41 This example dLmonstrates the advantage of the addition of sodium methoside to the catalyst system of Example 1 in accordance with the present invention. To a 71 cc glass lined Parr autoclave were charged 0.0054 g 0.024 mmoles palladium acetate, 0.0302 g 0.115 mmoles triphenylphosphine, 0 0209 g 0.39 mmoles sodium methoxide, 10 ml methanol and 5 g butadiene. The autoclave was pressurized to 1000 psig with CO and shaken at 1100C for 10 hours. Analysis of the product solution by GLC showed the presence of 1.28 mmoles methyl nonadienoate. A large amount of palladium decomposition was observed. while a few of the phenol promoters were observed to have given only modest improvement over the control, these data show that many other phenols result in a dramtic improvement in productivity compared to the control. EXAMPLE 42 To a 300cc glass lined autoclave were charged 0.023 g Pd OAc 2, 0.0808 g PPh3 and 30 ml methanol. The autoclave was then pressurized to 500 psi with CO and heated at 750C. for 2 hours. After cooling to room temperature, the autoclave was vented and 0.1377 g 3.6 moles NaBH4 in 20 ml methanol chilled in dry ice was added, followed by 20 g 1,3 butadiene. The autoclave was then pressurized to 500 psig with CO and heated at 750C. for 15 hours. GLC analysis of the product solution indicated the presence of methyl nonadienoate. EXAMPLE 43 To a glass lined 71 ml Parr autoclave were charged 0.0175 g .0.078 mmoles Pd OAc 2, 0.1608 g .0.61 mmoles PPh3 and 5 ml methanol. To the foregoing were added 0.1647 g 4.33 mmoles . NaBH4 in 5 ml of methanol followed by 10 g butadiene. The autoclave was then pressurized to 1500 psig with CO and shaken at 1250C. for 12 hours. At the end of this period, methyl nonadienoate together with a quantity of a dark solid was present in the reactor, indicating some Pd decomposition. EXAMPLE 44 To a 71 cc glass lined Parr autoclave were charged 0.0140 g 0.0624 mmoles Pd .OAc 2, 0.1625 g t0.62 mmoles PPh3 and 5 ml methanol. To the foregoing were added a solution of Q.1171 g 3.08 mmoles NaBH4 in 5 ml methanol, followed by 9 g 1,3 butadiene. The autoclave was then pressurized to 400 psig with CO and shaken at 900C. for 12 hours. Methyl nonadienoate together with a quantity of a dark solid was present in the autoclave. EXAMPLE 45 To a 71 cc glass lined Parr autoclave were charged 0.0139 g 0.062 mmoles Pd OAc 2, 0.1650 g 0.63 mmoles PPh3, and 5 ml methanol. To the foregoing were added a solution of 0.1206 g 3.17 mmoles NaBH4 in 5 ml methanol, followed by 10 g butadiene. The bomb was then pressurized to 700 psig with CO and shaken at 900C. for 12 hours. At the end of the reaction, methyl nonadienoate together with a small amount of a dark solid was present in the autoclave. EXAMPLE 46 To a 71 cc glass lined Parr autoclave were charged 0.0143 g 0.64 mmoles Pd OAc 2, 0.1613 g 0.616 mmoles PPh and 5 ml methanol. To the foregoing were added a 3 solution of 0.1205 g .3.17 mmolesl NaBH4 in 5 ml methanol, followed by 9.5 g butadiene. The autoclave was then pressurized to 900 psig with CO and shaken at 900C for 12 hours. At the end of the reaction, methyl nonadienoate together with a quantity of a dark solid was present in the autoclave. EXAMPLE 47 To a 71 cc glass lined Parr autoclave were charged 0.0147 g 0.066 mmoles Pd OAc 2, 0.1606 g 0.613 mmoles PPh3 and 5 ml methanol. To this was added 0.1159 g .3.05 mmoles NaBH4 in 5 ml methanol, followed by 11 g butadiene The bomb was then pressurized to 1200 psig with CO and shaken at 900C. for 12 hours. At the end of the reaction, methyl nonadienoate together with a yellow solid was present in the autoclave. A portion of the latter dissolved in toluene provided a white, apparently polymeric substance. EXAMPLE 48 To a 71 cc glass lined Parr autoclave were charged 0.0144 g .0.064 mmoles Pd OAc 2, 0.1730 g 0.66 mmoles PPh3. To the foregoing were added 5 ml methanol followed by 0.1185 g 3.12 mmoles NaBH4 in 5 ml methanol and then by 10 g butadiene. The autoclave was then filled to 1000 psig CO and heated at 900C. Cno shaking for 12 hours. In addition to methyl nonadienoate, a quantity of a yellow solid was recovered. EXAMPLE 49 To a 71 cc glass lined Parr autoclave were charged 0.0139 g .0.062 mmoles . Pd .OAc 2, 0.1488 g 0.74 mmoles PBu3 and 5 ml methanol. To the foregoing were charged 0.1197 g .3.15 mmoles NaBH4 in 5 ml methanol, followed by 6 g butadiene. The autoclave was then pressurized with 1000 psig CO and shaken at 900C. for 12 hours. In addition to methyl nonadienoate, a quantity of a dark solid was present in the reactor.