# Method of drawing a silicon rod.

## Abstract
The invention relates to a method of drawing a monocrystalline silicon rod 1 from a silicon melt 2 in a quartz crucible 3. In order to keep the loss of oxygen from the melt as low as possible and to keep the oxygen content in the drawn rod as high as possible, the silicon rod 1 is drawn through an aperture 5 in a body 6 floating on the melt 2. The aperture 5 is so large with respect to the diameter of the rod 1 that the shape of the meniscus 4 of the melt 2 around the rod 1 is not influenced by the body 6.

## Claims
1. A method of drawing a monocrystalline silicon rod from a silicon melt present in a quartz crucible, characterized in that the silicon rod is drawn through an aperture in a body floating on the melt, the aperture being chosen to be so large with respect to the diameter of the silicon rod that the shape of the meniscus of the melt around the rod is not influenced by the body. 2. A method as claimed in Claim 1, characterized in that the body consists of quartz. 3. A method as claimed in Claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the body is a flat annulus. 4. A method as claimed in Claim 3, characterized in that the floating body has pins extending beyond the circumference of the body and which keep the floating body free from the wall of the quartz crucible. 5. A semiconductor device manufactured from a silicon rod drawn by means of a method as claimed in any of the preceding Claims.

## Description
Method of drawing a silicon rod and semiconductor device manufactured from the silicon rod . The invention relates to a method of drawing a monocrystalline silicon rod from a silicon melt present in a quartz crucible, and to a semiconductor device manu factured from the silicon rod. Silicon slices which are used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices are manufactured from monocrystalline silicon rods. In the manufacture of semiconductor devices from silicon slices, it is of great importance that undesired impurities should occur as little as possible in the silicon. It is knows that undesired impurities, notably metallic impurities, are gettered gettered intrinsically by means of oxygen precipitates in the silicon slice. These oxygen precipitates are foxmed during thermal treatments of the slices, which treatments are usual in the manufacture of ssmiconductor devices.The oxygen required for this purpose is taken up during drawing the silicon rod in the melt by reaction of the molten silicon with the quartz crucible. The oxygen taken up in the melt is incorporated in the crystallizing rod or disappears as silicon monoxide by evaporation via the free surface of the silicon melt. It has been found that the oxygen content in a drawn rod varies from approximately 10 atoms per cm3 at the beginning near the seed up to approximately 5x1017 atoms per cm3 at the tail end of the rod measured b means of infrared spectroscopy according to Kaiser and Kick, J.Appl.Phys. 28, 882 1957 , at which concentration no o only a slight precipitation occurs. So in at this lastmentioned oxygen concentration, hardly any gettering by means of oxygen precipitation occurs any more.As a result of tile thus occurring variation in oxygen concentration in t rod, important dIfferences in quality may occur between semiconductor devices which are manufactured from different slices. It is therefore desirable to draw silicon rods with oxygen contents above that concentration at which oxygen precipitates start to occur to an mportant extent, 17 i.e. above approximately 7x10 7 atoms per cm preferably 18 18 above 10 atoms per cm3. At most 2x10 atoms of oxygen per cm3 can be incorporated in monocrystalline silicon. One of the objects of the invention is to draw monocrystalline silicon rods with a concentration of oxygen in the silicon which is as homogeneous as possible and which can be controlled. The variation in the content of oxygen in monocrystalline silicon rods is preferably associated with the fact that the crucible used in the drawing process has a cylindrical shape. As a result of this the contact area between the silicon melt and the crucible wall during drawing becomes smaller when the level of the silicon melt in the crucible drops, while the free surface of the silicon melt remains constant. As a result of this less oxygen will dissolve in the melt from the crucible wall, while the possibility of evaporation of silicon monoxide from the melt remains constant. The result is that during dra wing an ever decreasing quantity of oxygen is incorporated in the rod. The invention is based inter alia on the recognition of the fact that the important improvement as regards the magnitude of the oxygen content in the drawn rod can be obtained by reducing the free surface of the silicon melt in the crucible. Therefore, the method mentioned in the opening paragraph is characterized according to the invention in that the silicon rod is drawn through an aperture in a body floating on the melt, the aperture being chosen to be so large with respect to the diameter of the silicon rod that t shape of the meniscus of the met around the rod is 210t influenced by the body. By means of the method according to the invention the concentration of oxygen in the silicon rod may be considerably increased with respect to known methods. As regards the condition that the shape of the meniscus of the melt near the rod may not be influenced by the body it is to be noted that this condition is imposed so as to avoid dislocations as a result of such an influencing. It is to be noted that it is known per se to obtain non circular rods, to draw a rod via a non circular aperture. As a result of the short distance between the edge of the aperture and the rod, the meniscus of the melt near the rod is influenced in such a manner that the rod assumes the shape of the aperture. In such a method it is substantially impossible to avoid the formation of dislocations. The floating body preferably consists of quartz.The advantage of such a body is that oxygen can be given off to the melt also via the contact face between the melt and the body, and that also as a result of this the oxygen content in the melt near the aperture remains at a hibh level. The method according to the invention can be carried out particularly easily when the body is a flat annulus. In order to prevent the floating body from adhering to the wall of the crucible, the floating body preferably has,pins extending beyond the circumference of the body and which keep the floating body free from the wall of the quartz crucible. The invention furthermore relates to a semiconductor device manufactured from a silicon rod drawn by means of the method according to the invention.The influence of undesired impurities is considerably suppressed in such semiconductor devices. An embodiment of the invention will now be described in greater detailwith reference to an example and the accompanying drawing. The drawing is a diagrammatic sectional view of a part of a device for carrying out the method according o the invention. In this example, a monocrystalline silicon rod 1 is drawn from a silicon melt 2 present in a quartz crucible 3. According to the invention, the silicon rod 1 is drain through an aperture 5 in a body 6 floating on the melt 2, the body being preferably quartz. The aperture 5 is chosen to be so large with respect to the diameter of the silicon rod 1 that the shape of the meniscus 7 of the melt 2 around the rod 1 is not influenced by the quartz body 6. The quartz body 6 is a flat annulus provided with three quartz pins J, which extend beyond the circumference of the body 6 and keep the floating body 6 free from the wall of the quartz crucible 3. In order to prevent deformation of the body 6, said body is contacted with the silicon only after said silicon has melted. The melt 2 is then contacted with a seed crystal. For example, a rod 1 having a diameter between 3.5 and 4 cm is drawn, at a rate of 1.3 mm per minute, from a cylindrical crucible 3 having an inside diameter of 8.5 cm through a circular aperture 5 having a diameter of 6 cm in a 2 mm thick quartz body 6 waving an outside diameter of 8 cm which floats on the silicon melt 2. The melt 2 is constantly stirred thoroughly by rotating the rod 1 and the crucible 3 in opposite directions. The growth takes place in argon at a pressure of 1 atmosphere. The aperture 5 is sufficiently large for a conventional automatic diameter control by means of reelection at the meniscus. As a result of the presence of a floating body, the process consumes less energy than a similar process conduced without the bod. The oxygen content of the silicon rod drawii b means of the method according GO the invention is from 30 to 4 ooze higher than in the case in which no quartz body is used, and over the greater part of the rod is more than 10 atoms per cm3. The silicon rod is sawn into slices in any conventional manner, from which slices semiconductor devices such as diodes, transistors and integrated circuits are made.The occurring oxygen precipitation causes good intrinsic gettering. The invention is not restricted to the example described. It will be obvious from the above that many variations are available to those skilled in the art without departing from the scope of this invention.