# Contact device for a multicore cable.

## Abstract
The contact device 1 comprises a contact carrier 3 made of an insulating material, and provided with a number of corresponding. mutually parallel contact elements 5 , each of which comprises an end portion which projects from the contact carrier and which is constructed as a bifurcated piercing contact 9 with a pair of spaced cutters 11 between which an insulated core 15 can be pressed so that the insulation is cut by the cutters and the core contacted by them. The contact device further comprises a line up block 21 which is made of an isulating material and which is provided with troughs 25 in each of which a core can be arranged, and with recesses 33 which extend trans versely of the troughs to receive the piercing contacts. The line up block can be mounted against the contact carriers in such a position that the cores arranged in the troughs are pressed between the cutters which enter into the recesses. In order to simplify assembly and to enhance the reliability, the troughs are con structed as one or more rows of parallel channels which are formed in a side face of the line up block and each of which extends from an edge 27 of this side face 23 to the opposite edge 29 thereof and comprises at least two constrictions spaced longitudinally of the chan nel and situated on opposite on either side of the recess in the channel.

## Claims
1. A contact device for a multicore cable 17 with a number of separate insulated cores 15 , the device comprising at least one contact carrier 3 made of an insulating material and provided with a number of, mutually parallel contact elements 5 , each of which comprises an end portion which projects from the contact carrier and which is constructed as a bifurcated piercing contact 9 with a pair of spaced cutters 11 between which an insulated core can be pressed so that the insulation is cut by the cutters and the core contacted by them, the contact device also comprising a line up block 21 which is made of an insulating material and which comprises troughs 25 in each of which an insulated core can be arranged and recesses 33 which extend transversely of the troughs to receive the piercing contacts, the arrangement. being such that the line up block can be mounted against the contact carrier in such a position that each of the cores arranged in the troughs is pressed between the cutters of the piercing contact which enters the associated recess, characterized in that the troughs 25 are constructed as at least one row of parallel channels which are formed in a side face of the line up block and each of which extends from an edge 27 of this side face 23 to the opposite edge 29 thereof and comprises at least two constrictions 35 spaced longitudinally of the channel and situated in opposite sides of the recess 33 in the channel. 2. A contact device as claimed in Claim 2, characterized in that the line up block 21 comprises means 39, 41, 43, 4 for clamping the multicore cable 17 . 3. A contact device as claimed In Claim 1 or 2, characterized in that two opposite side faces 23, 31 of the line up block 21 are each provided with a row of troughs Z5 which are constructed as parallel channels.

## Description
Contact device for a multicore cable. The invention relates to a contact device for a multicore cable with a number of separate insulated cores, the device comprising at least one contact carrier made of an insulating material and provided with a number of corresponding, mutually parallel contact elements, each of which comprises an end portion which projects from the contact carrier and which is constructed as a bifurcated piercing contact with a pair of spaced cutters between which an insulated core can be pressed so that the insulation is cut by the cutters and the core contacted by them the contact device also comprising a line up block which is made of an insulating material and which comprises troughs in each of which an.insulated core can be arranged, and recesses which extend transversely of the troughs to receive the piercing contacts, the arrangement being such that the line up block can be mounted against the contact carrier in such a position that each of the cores arranged in the troughs is pressed between the cutters of the piercing contact which enters the associated recess. A device of this kind is known from Netherlands published application 76 03 291. Each of the troughs for the cores in the known contact device consists of two portions which extend perpendicularly withrespect to one another, namely, an opening which extends between two opposite side faces of the line up block and a channel which is recessed in one of said side faces between the mouth of the opening and an edge of the side face. Upon assembly, each core ofthe multicore cable must be inserted through one of the openings, after which it is bent at right angles and arranged in the relevant channel. This is a time consuming and hence expensive operation whilst, moreover, it is not ensured that the end portions of the cores remain in the channels until they are secured by the mounting of the contact carrier. The invention has for its object to provide a contact device in which the cores can be very simple arranged in the troughs of the line up block and remain held.flr.sly .therein. To this end, the contact device in accordance with the invention is characterized in that the troughs are constructed as at least one row of parallel channels which are formed in a side face of the line up block and each of which extends from an edge of this side face to the opposite edge thereof and comprises at least two constrictions spaced longitudinally of the channel and situated on opposite sides of the recess in the channel. The cores can thus be pressed into the troughs from the top downwards,. preferably by means of a simple tool which includes a pressure comb, without it being necessary to insert the cores through openings first.The constrictions in the channels ensure that the cores cannot move in the channels To isolate the clamped connections of the cover in the constructions from strain on the cable, a preferred embodiment of the contact device in accordance with the invention is characterized in that the line up block comprises means for clamping the multicore cable. A further preferred embodiment of the contact device in accordance with the invention which is particularly suitable for the connection of cables comprising a comparatively large number of cores is characterized in that two opposite side faces of the line up block each comprise a row of troughs which are constructed as parallel channels. The invention will be described in detail hereinafter with reference to the drawings in which Figure I is a longitudinal sectional view of an embodiment of a contact device in accordance with the invention, Figure 2 is a front view on an enlarged scale of a detail of a contact element of the device shown inFigure 1. Figure 3 is a plan view of a line up block for the device shown in Figure 1, Figure 4 is a front view of the line up block shown in Figure 3, Figure 5 is a longitudinal sectional view of the line up block, taran on the line V V in Figure 3, and Figure 6 is a diagrammatic perspective view of an embodiment of a tool for inserting cores of a multicore cable into the line up block. The contact device shown in Figure 1 is a socket contact member 1 which is adapted to co operate with a pin contact member 2. The socket contact member 1 comprises a housing which consists of two interconnected contact carriers 3, each of which carries a row of contact elements 5 each of which comprises two contact springs 7 at one end the right end in Figure 1 , and at the other end is bent 0 through 90 to project from the contact carrier and com prises a piercing contact 9, which is shown in a front view on an enlarged scale in Figure 2. The piercing contact 9 is bifurcated so that it consists of two spaced cutters 11. The space 13 between the cutters comprises a wide inlet opening 14 through which an insulated core 15 of a multicore cable 17 seeFigure 1 can be readily inserted. The space 13 becomes narrower further in so that when the core 15 is pressed further into this space, the cutters 11 cut the insulation thereof and contact the electrically conductive interior part of the core, The contact springs 7 see Figure 1 co operate with contact pins 19 which form part of the pin contact member 2. The two contact carriers 3 enclose a line up block 21 which like the contact carriers, is made of an insulating material, preferably a synthetic material. The line up block 21 will be described in detail with reference to Figures 3 to 5. On the upper side of the line up block 21 there is situated a first side face 23 which comprises eight troughs 25 which are constructed as a row of parallel channels which extend from an edge 27 of the side face to the opposite edge 29. On the lower side of the line up block 21 there is formed a second side face 31 which comprises eight corresponding troughs 25. Transversely of the longitudinal axis of each trough 25 there is provided a recess 33 for receiving the pair of cutters 11 of one of the piercing contacts 9, the recess being formed in the side walls and bottom of the trough. In each trough 25 there are three constrictions 35 formed by pairs of opposed ridges 37 which project into the channel from the side walls thereof.Two of the three constrictions 35 are arranged on opposite sides of the recess 33. When an insulated core 15 of a cable 17 Figure 1 is arranged in the open upper side of one of the channellike troughs 25 with its longitudinal direction parallel to the longitudinal axis of the trough and is subsequently pressed down towards the bottom of the channel, the insulating jacket of the core is deformed by the ridges 37, so that the core is clamped in the constrictions 35. When the line up block 21 is subsequently clamped between two contact carriers 3, a piercing contact 9 enters the recess 33 so that the cutters 11 of the contact cut through the insulating jacket of the core 15. The part of the core 15 which is situated at the area of the recess 33 is then held firmly by the two constrictions 35 on opposite sides of the recess. As has already been described with reference toFigure 1, the cores 15 form part of a multicore cable 17.For clamping the cable so that the clamped connections of the cores in the constrictions 35 are isolated from strain on the cable, the line up block 21 comprises an opening 39 for the cable into which teeth 41 project, and also an opening 43 for a cable binder 44 so called ty rap . The cable 17 is clamped against the teeth 41 by the binder 44 see Figure 1 , which is inserted into the opening 43, wrapped around the cable and tightened by means of a suitable tool. Subsequently, the cores 15 exposed from the cable sheath are split into two groups which are separated by a central web or partition 45 of the line up block. The cores 15 of the first group are inserted into the troughs 25 in the upper side of the line up block 21 and those of the second group are arranged in the troughs in the lower side. For the insertion of the cores 15 the tool which is shown in a perspective view in Figure 6 can be used.This tool comprises a line up comb 47, beneath which the line up block 21 shown in dot dash lines , with the cable 17 clamped in the opening 39 in the block can be arranged.The line up comb 47 comprises core guides 49 between which the eight cores 15 of the first group are inserted. The spaces between the core guides 49 are situated exactly over the troughs 25 in the first side face 23 of the line up block 21. After insertion of the cores 15 into the line up comb 47, a pressure comb 51 is pressed down into the 1ine up comb. For this purpose the pressure comb is secured to a pivotable holder 53 which can be moved by means of a grip 5. When the pressure comb 51 is pressed down, the pressure plates 57 are inserted into the spaces between the core guides 49 and press the cores into the troughs 25. At the same time, the cutting edges 59 cut off the ends of the cores 15 which project from the line up comb 47. Subsequently, the pressure comb 51 is raised again, after which the line up block 21 is turned over and the cores 15 of the second group are pressed into the troughs 25 in the second side face 31 in the same manner. When the cores 15 are inserted into the line up comb 47, it must be ensured that each core is positioned in the correct space between two core guides 49. For this purpose the cores may have, for example, a different colour corresponding colours are then provided in the correct locations on the line up comb. The described embodiment of the contact device is suitable for the connection of a cable 17 comprising sixteen cores 15. Obviously, larger or smaller numbers of cores are also feasible when the number of contact elements 5 and troughs 25 is changed. For cables comprising small number of cores, it suffices to provide only one side face 23 of the line up block 21 with troughs 25. In that case only one contact carrier 3 is required. The described contact member is a socket contact member, but it will be evident the invention can also be used for other contact devices such as pin contact members and coupling contact devices for the interconnection of two cables.