# Fluid catalytic cracking process and apparatus.

## Abstract
An acceleration zone A in the Y section of the riser at the point of contact of regenerated catalyst and oil feed in the FCC reactor increases initial superficial velocity of vaporized hydrocarbons to 7.6 to 24.4 m per second to reduce catalyst backmixing. The acceleration zone is followed by a transition zone T comprising an expanding riser section, which con nects the acceleration zone to the remainder of the riser.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A fluid catalytic cracking process which comprises mixing a hydrocarbon feed with a regenerated catalyst in the bottom section of a reactor riser, passing the mixture of hydrocarbon feed and catalyst through the riser to effect cracking of the hydrocarbon feed at the process temperature under endothermic process conditions and deactivate the catalyst by deposition of carbonaceous deposits thereon, separating the deactivated catalyst from the cracked hydrocarbon feed, passing the deactivated catalyst to a regenerator vessel in which the carbonaceous deposits are removed from the deactivated catalyst under exothermic process conditions by means of a regenerating medium introduced into the regenerator vessel, and passing the regenerated hot catalyst to the bottom section of the reactor riser, characterized in that the mixture of hydrocarbon feed and catalyst initially passes in the reactor riser through an acceleration zone constituting the first 6.1 to 7.6 m of the reactor riser length, the vaporized hydrocarbon feed being accelerated therein to a superficial velocity of from 7.6 to 24.4 m per second. 2. A process according to claim 1 wherein, after passing through the acceleration zone, the mixture passes through a transition zone in the riser, the transition zone having a progressively larger diameter than the acceleration zone, the diameter increasing at an angle of not more than 9 degrees, the transition zone connecting the acceleration zone with the remainder of the riser, the linear velocity of the catalyst in the transition zone thereby not exceeding the linear velocity of the hydrocarbon vapors. 3. A process according to claim 2, wherein the expansion. angle of the portion of the riser forming the transition zone is 5 to 9 degrees. 4. A process according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the superficial velocity of the vaporized hydrocarbon feed in the acceleration zone is 7.6 to 15.25 m per second. 5. A fluid catalytic cracking apparatus comprising in combination a reactor vessel and a regenerator vessel, the reactor vessel comprising a reactor riser and a gas solid separator, means for conveying a deactivated catalyst from the reactor vessel to the regenerator vessel, and means for conveying regenerated catalyst from the regenerator vessel to the reactor vessel, characterized in that the first 6.1 to 7.6 m of the reactor riser length is an acceleration zone having a cross sectional area such that, in use a hydrocarbon feed is accelerated therein to a superficial velocity of from 7.6 to 24.4 m per second 6. Apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the acceleration zone is followed by a transition zone having a progressively larger diameter than the acceleration zone, the diameter increasing at an angle of not more than 9 degrees. 7. Apparatus according to claim 6 wherein the angle of increase of the diameter of the transition zone is 5 to 9 degrees.

## Description
FLUID CATALYTIC CRACKING PROCESS AND APPARATUS This invention relates to the fluid catalytic cracking FCC of petroleum fractions and more especially to an improved FCC riser reactor. The conversion of various petroleum fractions into more valuable products in catalytic reactors is well known, and the petroleum industry has found the use of fluid bed catalytic cracking reactors particularly advantageous for that purpose. An FCC reactor typically comprises a thermally balanced assembly of apparatus units comprising the reactor vessel containing a catalyst and a regenerator vessel in which spent catalyst is regenerated. The petroleum fraction feed is converted in the reactor vessel over the catalyst and coke simultaneously forms on the catalyst, thereby deactivating it. The deactivated or spent catalyst is removed from the reactor vessel and conducted to the regenerator vessel in which coke is burned from the catalyst with air, thereby regenerating the catalyst. The regenerated catalyst is then recycled to the reactor vessel.The reactor regenerator assembly must be maintained in steady state heat balance so that heat generated by the exothermic burning the coke provides sufficient thermal energy for the endothermic catalytic cracking in the reactor vessel. The steady state heat balance is usually achieved and maintained in FCC reactors by controlling the rate of flow of the regenerated catalyst from the regenerator to the reactor by means of an adjustable slide valve in the generator treactor conduit. The product stream of the catalytic cracker is usually fractionated into a series of products including gas, normally conducted to a gas treatment plant gasoline light cycle gas oil and heavy cycle gas oil. A portion of the heavy cycle gas oil is usually recycled into the reactor vessel and mixed with fresh feed.The bottom effluent of the fractionator is conventionally subjected to settling and the solid rich portion of the settled product is also recycled to the reactor vessel in admixture with the heavy cycle gas oil and fresh feed. In present day FCC reactors, the regenerated catalyst is introduced into the base of a riser reactor column in the reactor vessel. A primary purpose of the riser reactor is to crack the petroleum feed. The regenerated hot catalyst is mixed in the bottom of the riser reactor with a stream of fresh feed and recycled petroleum fractions, and the mixture is forced upwardly through the riser reactor. During the upward passage of the mixed catalyst and petroleum fractions, the petroleum is cracked and coke is simultaneously deposited on the catalyst. The coked catalyst and the cracked petroleum components pass upwardly out of the riser and through a solid gas separation system, for example a series of cyclones, at the top of the reactor vessel.The cracked petroleum fraction is conducted to product separation, while the coked catalyst, after steam stripping, passes into the regenerator vessel and is regenerated. Most of the cracking reactions in such modernFCC units take place in the riser reactor. Accordingly, the remainder of the reactor vessel is used primarily to separate entrained catalyst particles from the petroleum fractions. Further details of FCC processes can be found in U.S.Patents 2,383,636, 2,689,210, 3,338,821, 3,812,029, 4,093,537, 4,118,337, 4,118,338 and 4,218,306 as well as in Venuto et al, fluid Catalytic Cracking With Zeolite Catalysts11 Marcel Dekher,Inc. 1979 . Performance characteristics of FCC reactors can be measured by a number of factors, for example percent conversion usually in volume percent of feed to all of the products of the FCC reactor, such as gasoline, coke and gas selectivity, which is a measure also usually in percent volume of the conversion of feed to gasoline grade products and octane number of product gasoline.While the degree of conversion usually increases with increasing reactor riser temperature, the reactor riser top temperature is limited to about 5660C by downstream process considerations, metallurgical restraints and the desired product distribution. In addition, at excessively high riser reactor temperatures the feed undergoes overcracking which manifests itself as a steady production of excessive amounts of light gases at the expense of gasoline. With conventional riser reactors, a great deal of backmixing of catalyst takes place in the riser, especially in the initial portion of the riser where freshly regenerated catalyst is introduced. The backmixing results in non selective cracking of feed to produce excess coke and light gases at the expense of gasoline grade products. The loss of selectivity is apparently caused by the relatively long contact time between catalyst and feed due to catalyst backmixing. It is also thought that the increased contact time is responsible for the excessive effect of metals poisoning on catalyst performance, as evidenced by increased dry gas and coke production. Metals, such as nickel and vanadium present in the hydrocarbon feed, deposit on the catalyst during contact with the feed.Although coke is removed from the spent catalyst in the regenerator by burning, the metals are not, and the elimination or reduction of the metals content of the poisoned catalyst requires a continuous additon of fresh catalyst or a separate purification procedure. The present invention is based on the observation that catalyst backmixing in the reactor riser can be substantially reduced, with consequential reduction of metal poisoning of the catalyst and increase in conversion and product selectivity, by providing an acceleration zone in the lower portion of the reactor riser where the regenerated catalyst first contacts the hydrocarbon feed. The present invention therefore provides a fluid catalytic cracking process which comprises mixing a hydrocarbon feed with a regenerated catalyst in the bottom section of a reactor riser, passing the mixture of hydrocarbon feed and catalyst through the riser to effect cracking of the hydrocarbon feed at the process temperature under endothermic process conditions and deactivate the catalyst by deposition of carbonaceous deposits thereon, separating the deactivated catalyst from the cracked hydrocarbon feed, passing the deactivated catalyst to a regenerator vessel in which the carbonaceous deposits are removed from the deactivated catalyst under exothermic process conditions by means of a regenerating medium introduced into the regenerator vessel, and passing the regenerated hot catalyst to the bottom section of the reactor riser, characterized in that the mixture of hydrocarbon feed and catalyst initially passes in the reactor riser through an acceleration zone constituting the first 6.1 to 7.6 m of the reactor riser length, the vaporized hydrocarbon feed being accelerated therein to a superficial velocity of from 7.6 to 24.4 m per second. The present invention also provides a fluid catalyst cracking apparatus comprising in combination a reactor vessel and a regenerator vessel, the reactor vessel comprising a reactor riser and a gas solid separator, means for conveying a deactivated catalyst from the reactor vessel to the regenerator vessel, and means for conveying regenerated catalyst from the regenerator vessel to the reactor vessel, characterized in that the first 6.1 to 7.6 m of the reactor riser length is an acceleration zone having a cross sectional area such that, in use a hydrocarbon feed is accelerated therein to a superficial velocity of from 7.6 to 24.4 m per second. In accordance with the present invention, a conventionalFCC riser reactor is provided with an acceleration zone in the first 6.1 to 7.6 m of the riser reactor length in which the regenerated catalyst is accelerated by a vaporized hydrocarbon feed having superficial velocity of from 7.6 to 24.4 m per second. A transition zone connects the acceleration zone with the remainder of the riser. The transition zone is a continuously expanding, frusto conical portion of the riser which, for hydrodynamic reasons, flares out at an angle of not more than 9 degrees. The acceleration zone in the riser reactor increases conversion and selectivity of the FCC reactor, decreases sensitivity of the catalyst to metals contamination and decreases regenerator temperature, thereby enabling the FCC reactor to operate at substantially higher riser top temperature conditions. The acceleration zone is provided in the reactor riser by manufacturing the initial portion of the riser from a conduit of a reduced cross sectional area as compared to the remainder of the riser for a particular installation. The acceleration zone begins at the riser bottom, where the regenerated catalyst initially contacts the hydrocarbon feed. The length of the acceleration zone is such that the vaporized hydrocarbon feed is accelerated therein to a superficial velocity of 7.6 to 24.4 m per second, preferably 7.6 to 15.25 m per second and more preferably 9.1 to 12.2 m per second. The length which is required to achieve that velocity is 6.1 to 7.6 m in an industrial size riser reactor of 24.4 to 61 m length and cross sectional area of 0.28 to 2.79 m2.It will be clear that the acceleration zone in the initial portion of the riser can be provided by constructing the riser in any convenient manner, as long as the superficial velocity of the feed in the acceleration zone falls within the specified limits of 7.6 to 24.4 m per second.In contrast, initial superficial velocity of hydrocarbon vapors in known risers usually ranges from about 3.65 to about 6.1 m per second. Referring by way of example only to Figure 1 of the accompanying drawings, which shows schematically the Y section of a FCC riser reactor, regenerated catalyst is fed to the bottom of an acceleration zone A. A transition zone T follows the acceleration zone and it connects the acceleration zone with the remainder of the riser. As shown in Figure 1, the transition zone comprises a section of the riser reactor above the acceleration zone and has a gradually and constantly increasing cross sectional area. The expanding cross sectional area is required to connect the acceleration zone to the larger cross sectional area of the riser reactor above which the volume of hydrocarbon vapors is constantly increasing by virtue of the cracking of the feed hydrocarbons.The degree of cross sectional area increase of the riser in the transition zone is such that catalyst velocity therein does not exceed the velocity of the oil vapors otherwise, catalyst velocity may be decreased thereby partially or completely defeating the effect and purpose of the acceleration zone. In a riser having a substantially circular cross section, the walls of the transition zone are inclined at not more than 9 degrees, preferably at 5 to 9 degrees. The maximum angle of 9 degrees is a well known hydrodynamic limit above which undesirable gas eddies occur in the boundary layer. Accordingly, the length of the transition zone is defined by the difference between the diameter of the acceleration zone and the diameter of the riser above the transition zone. The transition zone usually extends for a length of 1.5 to 3.1 m. The provision of the acceleration zone in the riser may necessitate some modifications to the other branch of the mixing Y , i.e., the regenerator to reactor standpipe. Such modifications are limited to decreasing the cross sectional area of that conduit to that of the acceleration zone. It will be apparent that the decrease in the cross sectional area is necessary only because of undue mechanical stresses on the welds of the conduit. In addition, under certain circumstances, it may also be necessary to inject additional dispersion gas into the standpipe or into the riser bottom to facilitate steady flow of the catalyst and to prevent bridging thereof in the standpipe.Such additional dispersion gas may be introduced, for example through a dispersion gas nozzle blast nozzle placed downstream of the existing slide valve in the regenerator to reactor standpipe as shown schematically in Figure 2 of the accompanying drawings. A conventional fluidizing gas, for example light hydrocarbons or steam, can be used in this nozzle, as well as in any other fluidization nozzles in the riser. Exact flow rates of the dispersion gas through such a nozzle will depend on the catalyst used and the feed in a particular installation and on other operating conditions of the process, such as feed rate and circulation rate of the catalyst, and they can be easily calculated in a conventional manner. Generally, the amount of the additional dispersion gas will be about 0.3 to 0.5 of the weight of fresh feed introduced into the riser. After leaving the acceleration and the transition zones, the mixture of cracked feed and the catalyst passes into the upper portion of the riser and into the separation means in the reactor vessel, as in a conventional reactor. With the acceleration zone of the present invention, vaporized hydrocarbons reach higher velocity earlier in the process but final velocity of hydrocarbons is the same as in known FCC reactor risers. Accordingly, the operating procedure and hardware of the reactor need not be altered, other than as discussed above. The acceleration zone reduces catalytic coke make by about 0.5 0.6 by weight increases conversion by about 3 5 by volume increases gasoline yield by about 2 5 by volume reduces the amount of light cycle oil produced by about 0.9 4 by volume and, reduces the amount of light hydrocarbon gases alkanes and alkenes of 2 to 4 carbon atoms by about 0.4 58 by volume. An additional benefit of the acceleration zone is a significant reduction in the regenerator operating temperature 20 460C decrease due to reduced coke make. Such a significant temperature reduction enables the top operating temperature of the riser to be significantly increased without exceeding the maximum allowable temperature in the regenerator.Increased riser top temperature, of course, increases conversion of hydrocarbons. Another significant benefit of the acceleration zone is the reduced sensitivity of catalyst to metals poisoning. As illustrated in Figure 3 of the accompanying drawings, in an FCC reactor A a UOP straight riser unit of 1.83 m riser diameter, fully disclosed inHYDROCARBON PROCESSING, Volume 51, Number 5, page 89 May 1972 in one instance, at 20000 ppm metals 1500 ppm Ni and 500 ppm V contamination, the production of fuel gas decreased from about 6 weight of feed with no acceleration zone to about 4.5 weight of feed after the installation of the acceleration zone . Reactor B was a stacked unit having a riser diameter of 0.61 m, described in the same literature reference. The acceleration zone and transition zone can be used with any known FCC riser reactor, and no attempt has therefore been made to exemplify any particular FCC installation, since such units are well known in the art. The following Example illustrates the invention. EXAMPLE A conventional FCC riser reactor a UOP stacked unit of the construction disclosed in HYDROCARBON PROCESSING, Volume 51, Number 5, page 89 May 1972 was modified by incorporating an acceleration zone according to the invention. The length of the riser was 39.6 m and it had a bottom diameter of 0.76 m and a top diameter of 0.91 m before the modification. Before the modification, initial superficial velocity of hydrocarbon vapors was 4.88 m second. The modification involved inserting a 6.1 m long acceleration section in the riser having an inside diameter of 0.53 m. This was followed by a transition section 1.22 m long, whose walls flared out at an enclosed angle of 9 degrees. Both sections were of a conventional construction. After the modification, initial superficial velocity of vaporized hydrocarbons in the acceleration section was 9.94 m sec.Operating data was obtained for the unit before and after modification and it is presented in Table 1. Feedstock properties are summarized in Table 2. TABLE 1 OPERATING CONDITIONS AND PRODUCT YIELDS FOR FCC REACTOR EFFLUENT SURVEYS Without Acceleration Zone With Acceleration Zone Run No. 1 2 3 4 5Operating Conditions Fresh Feed Rate, m3 day 2146 2894 1682 1682 2892 Combined Feed Rate, m3 day 2237 3006 1795 1798 3002 Combined Feed Ratio, wt 1.05 1,04 1.07 1.07 1.04 Combined Feed Ratio, vol 1.04 1.04 1.07 1.07 1.04 Riser Top Temp., C 507 510 509 509 509 Combined Feed Temp., C 348 384 377 382 390 Regenerated Catalyst Temp., C 712 650 633 654 673 Catalyst to Oil Ratio, wt wt 4.06 4.64 6.01 3.96 3.92 Combustion Air Rate, m3 min 717 784 611 533 734 Coke Burned, kg hr 3093 3424 2380 2111 3500 Carbon on Spent Catalyst, wt 0.84 0.63 0.67 0.73 0.72 Carbon on Regen. Catalyst, wt 0.02 0.08 0.07 0.06 0.05 Stripping Steam Rate, kg hr 1116 1270 1281 1274 1278Yield, Fresh Feed Wt. Vol. Wt. Vol. Wt. Vol.Wt. Vol. Wt. Vol. Conversion, 196 C at 90 67.6 69.8 65.7 68.2 80.7 82.7 67.0 69.0 56.8 58.0 Heavy Fuel Oil 11.3 10.0 12.9 11.3 5.8 4.7 12.8 11.4 18.7 17.7 Light Fuel Oil, 343 C at 90 21.1 20.2 21.4 20.5 13.5 12.5 20.2 19.6 24.6 24.4 C5 Gasoline, 196 C at 90 48.2 58.1 48.8 57.6 58.2 68.4 49.0 59.2 41.4 49.9 Total C4 s 8.3 12.8 7.3 11.0 11.1 16.5 7.8 11.9 6.0 9.3 Total C3 s 4.4 7.8 4.0 6.8 5.3 9.0 4.1 7.4 3.6 6.4 Dry Gas H2S 2.9 2.4 2.2 2.8 2.5 Coke 3.8 3.2 3.9 3.3 3.2 Total 100.0 108.9 100.0 107.2 100.0 111.1 100.0 109.5 100.0 107.7 TABLE 2 FEEDSTOCK PROPERTIES FOR FCC REACTOR EFFLUENT SURVEYS Without Acceleration Run No.Zone With Acceleration Zone 1 2 3430 C 3430C Total 3430C 3430C TotalYield, wt 9.85 90.15 100.0 5.62 94.38 100.00Physical PropertiesGravity, API 23.0 22.8 23.8 28.0 Spec.Gravity at 15.6 C 0.8843 0.9107 0.8647 0.8849 0.8886 Aniline Point, C 83.7 93.1 Sulfur, wt 0.63 0.80 0.78 0.56 0.64 0.63 Total Nitrogen, wt 0.0070 0.048 Bronine Number 2.6 1.9Hydrogen Content, wt 12.32 13.21Pour Point, C 37.8 37.8Molecular Weight 257 386 412 229 366 373Conradson Carbon Residue, 0.14 0.16Metals, Nickel 0.1 0.02 Vanadium 0.2 0.1 Copper 0.1 0.01 Iron 1.2 0.2Distillation, C 271 274 IBP 5 vol 315 330 10 vol 659 357 20 vol 722 380 30 vol 756 394 40 vol 782 407 50 vol 804 417 60 vol 824 425 70 vol 842 437 80 vol 865 451 90 vol 896 466 95 vol 914 478 TABLE 2 cont. FEEDSTCCK PROPERTIES FOR FCC REACTOR EFFLUENT SURVEYS Run No.With Acceleration Zonce 3 5 3430C 3430C Total 3430C 3430C TotalYield, wt 6.42 93.58 100.00 3.70 96.30 100.0Physical PropertiesGravity, OAPI 29.1 Spec. Gravity at 15.60C 0.8639 0.8783 0.8770 0.8788 0.9183 0.9172 Aniline Point, OC 94.3 82.9 Sulfur, wt 0.47 0.41 0.45 0.78 0.96 0.99Total Nitrogen, wt 0.047 0.076Bromine Number 1.7. 3.3Hydrogen Content, wt 13.10 12.40Pour Point, OC 37.8 37.8Molecular Weight 228 357 367 228 381 391Conradson Carbon Residue, wt 0.13 0.49Metals, ppm Nickel 0.01 0.5 Vanadium 0.1 0.5 Copper 0.05 0.03 Iron 0.4 0.5Distillation, OC IBP 283 274 5 vol 339 345 10 vol 361 366 20 vol 379 391 30 vol 391 403 40 vol 403 414 50 vol 416 425 60 vol 425 441 70 vol 437 456 80 vol 451 473 90 vol 474 496 95 vol 490 517 The feed in Run 4 was similar to that in Run 5. As can be seen from these tabulations, other changes in the unit operation most noticeably catalyst activity, fresh feed rate and feed composition make a direct comparison of survey results impossible. A computerized FCC model was therefore used to normalize the data for differences in catalyst, feedstocks, and operating conditions. To accomplish this normalization the computer program unit factors were determined for all survey data by matching actual yields at riser conditions to computerized model yields. Thus, differences in unit factors, before and after the modification, represent the effect of the acceleration zone on FCC performance. Using the resulting two sets of unit factors, the computer program was run to simulate the operation with and without the acceleration zone. Detailed yields are presented in Table 3 for operating at constant coke yield.The oil to riser temperature for the simulation with the acceleration zone was increased to provide an operation at the same coke yield as the simulation without the acceleration zone. During the time between the two sets of surveys, the catalyst used in the FCC unit was changed from Crosfield s CCZ 220 promoted Super D to Filtrol s FOR90. Filtrol claims that FOC 90 produces higher octane gasoline than conventional FCC catalysts such as Super D. In order to determine if any of the observed differences in yield or octane could be attributed to the catalyst change, separate riser pilot unit runs were made with the two catalysts with operating conditions and feedstock of Run 5. Both catalysts had identical gasoline and coke selectivities with the FOC 90 giving the expected E,O R O higher gasoline octane. Other pilot studies on EOC 90 and Super D are in agreement with these results. Thus, the selectivity improvements observed on this FCC unit are the results of the riser acceleration zone. On the other hand, the one number increase in octane observed on a similar feedstock after the modification is attributed to the use of FOC 90 catalyst. Therefore, no significant gasoline octane shift resulted from the installation of the riser acceleration zone, even though the gasoline selectivity is much higher. TABLE 3 SIMULATED EFFECT OF RISER at ACCELERATION ZONE ON FCC PERFORMANCE BASED ON COMPUTER NORMALIZATION Operation Without Operation With Acceleration Zone Acceleration ZoneReactor Conditions Riser Top Temp. OC 507 507 Cat to Oil 4.0 4.5 Oil to Riser Temp. OC 349 377 Combined Feed Ratio 1.05 1.05 Fresh Feed Rate m3 day 2148 2148 Combined Feed Rate m3 day 2245 2245 Riser Top Pressure kPa 278 277 Stripping Steam kg tonne cat. 3.25 3.25 Cat. Activity FAI 64.1 64.1 Standard Coke Producing Factor 0.414 0.414 Ni Equiv. on Cat. ppm 588 588Regenerator Conditions Regenerator Temp. OC 712 675 Carbon on Spent Cat. wt 0.84 0.68 Carbon on Regen.Cat. wt 0.02 0.02 Combustion Air m3 min 759 748 Cambustion Air Temp. OC 185 185 Coke Burned kg hr 3110 3064Computer Program Tuning Factors Unit Factor 1.191 1.191 Coke Factor 1.075 0.920 Gasoline 2.289 0.300Product Cut Points Light Cycle Oil, OC at 90 343 343 C5 Gasoline, OC at 90 196 196Conversion, vol 69.8 71.6Yields, FCC Fresh Feed Wt. Vol. API Wt. Vol. API Main Column Bottoms 9.7 8.6 6.4 8.7 7.7 5.0 Light Cycle Oil 22.4 21.6 18.3 21.5 20.7 17.9 C5 Gasoline 48.5 58.0 54.4 51.6 61.9 54.7 Total C4,s 8.5 13.2 8.0 12.4 Total C31s 4.9 8.7 4.3 7.5 C2 and Lighter 2.2 2.1 Coke 3.8 3.8 Total 100.0 110.1 100.0 110.2 Improvements in operating and product yield characteristics of FCC reactor with the acceleration zone are summarized and compared below, in Table 4, with the theoretically predicted benefits at constant coke make. TABLE 4 Shifts Attributable to the Acceleration Zone Predicted Actual Benefits BenefitsConversion, vol. 2.1 1.8Gasoline, vol. 3.2 3.9Lt. Cycle Oil, vol. 1.1 0.9Clarified Slurry Oil, vol. 1.0C3 s and C4 s, vol. 1.0 2.0C2 and Lighter, wt. 0.2 0.1Coke, wt. 0 0Gasoline Octane, R O 0.2 0Regenerator Temperature, cc 1.1 36.7 As can be seen from the above data, the riser acceleration zone has given a significant improvement in cracking selectivity, providing both higher conversion and gasoline yield at the same coke yield and lower gas make. Furthermore, this higher gasoline selectivity was obtained with no loss in gasoline octane. In light of the reduced gas make, it is possible to increase the octane potential of the unit by raising riser top temperature. This shift in operation conditions coupled with the riser acceleration zone allows an existing FCC unit to produce substantially more gasoline at higher octane than is currently possible. An unexpected benefit of the riser acceleration zone is the major reduction in regenerator temperature. This could be significant to units that are operating at relatively high regenerator temperatures. It will be apparent that the above example can be successfully repeated with hydrocarbon feeds equivalent to those generically or specifically set forth above and under variable process conditions.