# Building panel.

## Abstract
A method of manufacturing a building panel 18 comprises pouring into an open topped mould 1 defining the required panel perimeter, a first layer 6 of a flowable mix of resin and fill er, screeding the first layer 6, laying a permeable reinforcing element 7 in or on the first layer 6, laying at least one thermal insulation block 8 either directly onto the reinforcing element 7 or onto an additional layer of mix poured onto the reinforcing element 7, with gaps 9 defined between adjacent edges of the block s 8 and mould 1, allowing the block s 8 to adhere to the reinforcing element 7, filling the edge gaps 9 with flowable mix 11, applying a further quantity 12 of the flowable mix to the ex posed, upper surface of the insulating block s and screeding the further quantity 12, laying a further permeable reinforcing element 13 on the screeded further mix 12, applying a final quantity of mix 14 to the further reinforcing element 13 to sub merge the latter within the mix 14, screeding the final mix 14, and allowing the panel so manufactured to attain initial set suf ficient to enable removal of the panel from the mould 1. The in vention also includes panels 18 manufactured by the method, which panels may be provided with a decorative etc., facing 15 of gravel chippings etc.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1.method of manufacturing a building A panel comprising a pouring into an open topped mould defining the required panel perimeter, a first layer of a flowable mix of resin and filling b screeding the first layer c laying a permeable reinforcing element in or on the first layer d laying at least one thermal insulation block either directly onto the reinforcing element or onto an additional layer of mix poured onto the reinforcing element, with gaps defined between adjacent edges of the block s and mould e allowing the block s to adhere to the reinforcing element or additional layer f filling the edge gaps with the flowable mix g applying further quantity of the flowable mix to the exposed, upper surface of the insulating material and screeding said further quantity h laying a further permeable reinforcing element in or on the screeded further mix i applying a final quantity of mix to the further reinforcing element to submerge the latter within the mix, screeding the final mix and j allowing the panel to attain initial set sufficient to enable removal of the panel from the mould. 2. A method as claimed in Claim 1, wherein the mix comprises filler in a quantity 6 to 2 parts, to 1 part resin. 3. A method as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein the filler is silica sand 4. A method as claimed in Claim 3, wherein the sand is 90 mesh B.S.S. 5. A method as claimed in any precedingClaim, wherein the resin is unaccelerated, and includes the following additives a styrene monomer in a quantity of 15 of the resin b 0.5 cc of 6 cobalt accelerator per pound of mix c a catalyst e.g. BUTANOX M50 in a quantity of 4 cc per pound of mix. 6. A method as claimed in any precedingClaim, wherein each reinforcing element is wire mesh, hession, fabric or sacking. 7. A method as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 4, wherein each reinforcing element is fibre glass matting. 8. A method as claimed in Claim 7. wherein the matting is 1 oz ft2 of chopped matting. 9. A method as claimed in any one of Claims to 8y wherein the insulation block s is a synthetic plastics foam block. 10. A method as claimed in any precedingClaim, wherein a conduit or a load supporting beam is incorporated in the panel, during the moulding method. 11. A method as claimed in any precedingClaim, wherein a door frame and or window frame is incorporated in the panel during the moulding method. 12. A building panel manufactured by the method of any preceding Claim. 13. A building panel as claimed in Claim 12, of planar rectangular form. 14. A building panel as claimed in Claim 13, wherein one panel edge has a tongue and an opposite panel edge has Åa corresponding groove. 15. A building panel as claimed in any one of Claims 12 to 14, wherein the lower edge of each panel is grooved to receive one or more projections. 16. A building panel as claimed in any one of Claims 12 to 15, wherein the top edges of the panels are recessed or grooved to receive a capping element.

## Description
This invention relates to a method of manufacturing a building panel from synthetic plastics material for use as an external wall of a building, e.g. a bungalow, an internal wall of a building or alternatively a cladding panel. A known construction comprising blocks of thermal insulating material separated by steel reinforcing strips and sandwiched between layers of synthetic plastics material incorporating fibre glass matting is known from British PatentSpecification 1324681 and the present invention is concerned with an improved manufacturing technique for this general type of product, resulting in an improved product. According to a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method of manufacturing a building panel comprising a pouring into an open topped mould defining the required panel perimeter, a first layer of a flowable mix of resin and filler b screeding the first layer c laying a permeable reinforcing element in or on the first layer d laying at least one thermal insulation block either directly onto the reinforcing element or onto an additional layer of mix poured onto the reinforcing element, with gaps defined between adjacent edges of the block s and mould e allowing the block s to adhere to the reinforcing element, or additional layer f filling the edge gaps with the flowable mix g applying further quantity of the flowable mix to the exposed, upper surface of the insulating material and screeding said further quantity h laying a further permeable reinforcing element in or on the screeded further mix i applying a final quantity of mix to the further reinforcing element to submerge the latter within the mix, screeding the final mix and j allowing the panel to attain initial set sufficient to enable removal of the panel from the mould. According to a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided a panel manufactured by the above defined method. In essence the panel comprises two sheets, each comprising a laminate of resin mix reinforcement resin mix, and together sandwiching the thermal insulation block s , the sheets being secured to one another perimetrically by the mix applied to fill the edge gaps. This provides a structurally sound panel of satisfactory bending strength without the need to resort to the incorporation of metallic reinforcing elements as taught by British Patent Specification 1324681, which panel can be manufactured in substantial sizes, e.g. 8 ft. x 4 ft., without any tendency to warp. Preferably, the mix comprises three parts filler to one part resin. The former conveniently consists of silica sand, e.g. 90 mesh B.S.S. or such other mesh greater or smaller as may be required for specific purposes. The mix, if made in the U.K., would also require additions of accelerator and catalyst, as is well known in the art, to achieve curing in a reasonable time period.However, such additions may be unnecessary in hotter climates. The sand resin mix can be up to 6 1, but preferably and for U.K. manufacture a 3 1 sand resin mix is employed. If one is employing a proprietary unaccelerated resin this may require a styrene monomer in a quantity of 15 of the resin b 0.5 cc of 6 cobalt accelerator per pound of mix c a catalyst e.g. BUTANOX M50 in a quantity of 4cc per pound of mix. The quantity of accelerator or catalyst will vary depending on temperature and speed of cure required and will vary from country to country and day to day, being dependent upon ambient temperature. However, if greater flowability is required, e.g. for filling the edge gaps, the mix may be basically 2.5 1. Although the reinforcing element could be wire mesh, hessian, fabric, or sacking, it is preferred that fibre glass matting is employed which is readily capable of being wetted by the above resinous mixes, e.g. 1 oz ft2 of chopped matting is suitable. Although the insulation block s may be of cellulosic material, e.g. cardboard, or a preformed cardboard shape, preferably a synthetic plastics form block is employed. Preferably, the block, of whatever material is treated so as to exhibit fire resistant properties. If the panel is required to exhibit load bearing characteristics, e.g. by forming part of an outer wall of a bungalow where a roof supporting as well as insulating function is required, the insulation can be provided by two or more individual blocks with spaced apart adjacent edges to define one or more gaps, with the or each gap accommodating, e.g. an I beam or flat bar intended to extend vertically in use, between the top and bottom of the panel. Alternatively, spaced apart insulation blocks may also be provided so as to accommodate in the gap s a conduit, e.g. for electrical services, water pipes or drainage pipes etc. Yet again, conduit runs can be formed by grooves preformed in the insulation block itself. If panels with gaps between the insulation are required, then conveniently these gaps are infilled to the extent that the gaps are not occupied by an I beam, flat bar or conduit by the mix at the time the edge gaps are filled. If required for house construction, the panels would be planar and produced in modular sizes, e.g. 8 x 4 and 8 x 2 , and it presents no problem in the moulding process to incorporate a door frame or window frames, nor the casting of same in one operation, within a panel, for all that is required is the cutting of a hole in the two reinforcing elements, corresponding to the dimensions of the door frame or window frame. Thus windows doors etc. are placed first in the bottom of the mould and the remaining cavities are filled around with foam, mix, reinforcement etc. Preferably, if house construction is involved, for adequate structural stability and weatherproofing at the corners of a house, a nonplanar but IL shaped panel is provided. Thus, the first wall of this panel may be moulded with an inclined, mitre edge and the second wall may be also moulded with a mitre edge onto the mitre edge of the first moulded wall. Preferably, glass fibre reinforcing mats, integral with each wall, extend the length of the mitred joint and bridge the latter. Alternatively, the first and second wall may have butt edges. Furthermore, if the panels are required for building construction, the panels, whether planar or L shaped preferably have tongue and groove side edges whereby a tongue of one panel may be located in a groove of an adjacent edge of an adjacent panel. Furthermore, it is also possible for the lower edge of each panel also to be grooved to receive one or more projections, from a floor plate defining the perimeter of the house involved.The floor plate may also serve as a drip tray to preclude entry of water etc., into the house. The floor plate may be secured, e.g. by bolts, screws etc., to a concrete pad on which the panels are erected. The top edges of the panels are also preferably recessed or grooved to receive a capping element, e.g. of timber, also extending around the house perimeter and serving to tie together the upper edges of the panels. The above described panels will present a synthetic plastics outer surface, i.e. the cured mix. However, a decorative weather resistant finish may be applied to what is to be the outer surface of each panel. Thus, before the final screeded layer has cured and while the panel is still in the mould, stone chippings, brick slips, tiles or any decorative finish may be applied to the panel. Alternatively, a cured panel may be subsequently surfaced by applying a thin screed of mix to its outer surface and thereafter applying stone chippings, brick slips, tiles or any decorative finish to the screeded mix, to give the desired finished appearance. It follows that tiles may also be applied in this way.Furthermore, a high quality facing, e.g. 0.25 thick, of mix may similarly be adhered to a panel having a poor surface. If panels made in accordance with the above do not result in the required thickness for the use contemplated, then in accordance with another feature of the invention, there is no difficulty in duplicating the manufacturing technique previously described to attain a laminated panel made up of any number of basic panels. If fire resistant characteristics are required, the internal face of the panel i.e. that face intended to be internally of a building may be coated with an intumescent e.g. NULLIFIRE W30. The invention will now be described in greater detail, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 1 is a diagrammatic sectional view through an open topped mould for manufacturing a building panel in accordance with the present invention Figures 2 to 8 show subsequent manufacturing steps applied to a portion of the mould of Figure 1 and Figure 9 is a sectional view through a completed panel, manufactured in accordance with the method of Figures 1 to 8, but incorporating additional components. In the drawings, an open topped mould 1 comprises a base 2 and perimetral sidewalls 3 and endwalls 4 for the manufacture of a rectangular building panel in accordance with the invention. The sidewalls 3 are secured to the base 2 by any convenient means, e.g. bolts, screws not shown and are adjustable in position and or detachable to enable panels of different dimensions to be manufactured. In detail, the base 2, sidewalls 3 and endwalls 4 may be of timber, with the sidewalls 3 having capping strips 5 engageable by support surfaces of a conventional screed not shown . As illustrated in Figure 1, a first layer 6 of a flowable mix of resin and filler is poured into the mould 1. Any unevenness in the layer 6 is removed by running a screed along the mould 1 from one endwall 4 to the other endwall with the screed supported from the capping strips 5. Thereafter, as illustrated in Figure 2, a permeable reinforcing element in the form of a fibre glass matting 7 is laid upon the first layer 6. Thereafter, as illustrated in Figure 3, a thermal insulation block 8, e.g. of polystyrene, is either laid directly upon the matting 7 or alternatively on an additional layer of mix poured onto the matting 7, with a gap 9 defined by an adjacent edge of the block and wall 3. It may be convenient, as detailed in Figure 3, to employ a plurality of blocks 8 in which case gaps 10 are left between adjacent edges of adjacent blocks, but whether a single block or a plurality of blocks are employed will depend on the dimensions of a panel being manufactured and the block sizes available.Because the matting 7 is permeable, this is wetted by the layer 6 and hence the block s 8 eventually adheres to the reinforcing element. The next step is illustrated in Figure 4 wherein the edge gaps 9, and any gaps 10 between adjacent blocks, if a plurality of blocks are being employed, is filled with flowable mix 11. The next step is illustrated in Figure 5 wherein a further quantity 12 of the flowable mix is applied to the exposed surface of the block s 8, the layer 12 subsequently being screeded. The next step is illustrated in Figure 6, wherein a further permeable reinforcing element 13, again in the form of fibre glass matting, is applied to the layer 12. The next step is illustrated in Figure 7, wherein a final quantity of mix 14 is applied to the matting 13 to submerge the latter within the mix, the layer 14 subsequently being screeded. After allowing the panel to attain an initial set to permit handling, the panel may be removed from the mould. Alternatively, as illustrated in Figure 8, a layer of stone chippings 15 may be applied to the layer 14, either immediately after screeding the layer 14, or after allowing the layer 14 to cure or set, partially. As a further alternative, chippings 15 may be applied to a panel after removal from the mould, e.g. by applying a further layer of mix to the layer 15 with the chippings retained by this further layer. If it is intended for the panels to be used for house construction, then it will probably be required for the panels to abut one another, edge to edge, and in this case it is preferred for one sidewall to be provided with an elongate groove 16 and the opposite sidewalls 3 to be provided with an elongate rib 17 whereby, during the moulding process, there will automatically be produced tongue and groove edges to the panel by the flow of mix 11. In Figure 9 is illustrated a completed panel 18 having, along one side edge, a tongue 19 and, along the other side edge, a groove 20, the panel incorporating conduits 21, e.g. for electrical cables, and an I beam 22 if the panel is required to have load supporting characteristics.