# Diagnosis of kidney function.

## Abstract
A complex of Technetium 99m with an acid having the formula HOOC CH₂ X CH₂ COOH, where X is sulphur or se lenium has glomerular filtration and tubular secretion proper ties which make it useful in the diagnostic technique of reno graphy to give a dynamic representation of the functioning of the kidneys. The complex may be prepared a by reducing TcO 4 with a Sn reducing agent in the presence of Cu and of the acid, or b by reducing TcO 4 with a tin metal reducing agent in the presence of a cupric salt and of the acid.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A complex of an acid having the formula HOOC CH2 X CH2 COOH, where X is sulphur or selenium, or a non toxic salt thereof, with technetium 99m, for usein renography. 2. A method of making the complex defined in claim 1, TcO a comprises reducing Sn which method comprises reducing TcO with a Sn reducing agent 2 agent in the presence of Cu or Cu and of an acid having the formula HOOC CH2 X CH2 COOH, where X is sulphur or selenium or a non toxic salt thereof, and recovering the formed complex. 3. A method of making the complex defined in claim 1, which method comprises reducing Tc04 with a tin metal reducing agent, in the presence of a water soluble salt of a more noble metal than tin and of an acid having the formula HOOC CH2 X CH2 COOH, where X is sulphur or selenium, or a non toxic salt thereof, and recovering the formed complex. 4. A method as claimed in claim 3, wherein the watersoluble salt of a more noble metal than tin is a cupric salt. 5. A complex of an acid having the formula HOOC CH2 Se CH2 COOH or a non toxic salt thereof, with technetium 99m.

## Description
DIAGNOSIS OF KIDNEY FUNCTION The well established nuclear medicine diagnostic technique of renography gives a dynamic representation of the removal of substances from the blood by the kidneys, and their excretion into the urine. A radioactiv material which is rapidly excreted from the kidneys is injected into the patient, and its passage through the kidneys is observed with detectors placed over the kidneys probe renography . The current material of choice for this purpose is sodium iodohippurate Hippuran In131. Instead of using a single detector over each kidney, it is possible to use a gamma camera. Not only is this much more convenient, especially with children, since accurate positioning is no longer essential, but the results can be stored on tape and the tape replayed in such a way as to accept only the si als from a selected area of the kidney. For this and other reasons, the technique of gamma camera renography is potentially a very powerful one. Development of the technique has however been held up by the difficulty of finding a suitable radioactive material for injection into the patient. A gamma camera renogram requires much larger quantities of activity than does a simple probe renogram, and, with iodine 131, the radiation dose to the patient especially one with impaired renal function would be quite unacceptable. For many years, therefore, workers in the field have attempted to find a suitable Tc 99m complex which could be used in place of Hippuran 1 131. This invention results from the discovery of such a substance. The kidney contains about 1 million nephrons, each comprising a glomerulus and a tubule. The glomerulus acts as a molecular filter, by allowing water from the blood to pass through this is the source of the urine together with all small molecules it will not allow the passage of large protein molecules such as albumin. The tubules re absorb most of the water from the filtrate back into the blood, and re absorb essential small molecules such as glucose they also allow other small molecules to pass from the blood to the urine tubular secretion . Of the blood flowing through the kidney, about 20 of the water present passes through the glomerular filter. Thus, if a substance is removed from the blood only by glomerular filtration, only 20 of it will be removed from the blood in a single pass through the kidney. However, if it is removed effectively also by tubular secretIon, up to 100 of it may be removed from the blood in a single pass. To obtain a renogram with good diagnostic properties, as much as possible of the radioactive substance should be removed in a single pass. About 80 of Hippuran is removed in a single pass. Other substances are known which are removed as efficiently as Hippuran, but likeHippuran they cannot be labelled with technetium 99m. An example of substances which are removed from the blood by glomerular filtration only are metal complexes of diethylene thiamine pentacetic acid DTPA .DTPA is easily labelled with technetium 99m, and the labelled product has been used for gamma camera renograms. But DTPA Tc 99m shows a clearance rate only about 20 of that of Hippuran I 131, and as a result, renograms obtained with DTPA Tc 99m are flat and of limited diagnostic value. A large number of substances are known which are removed from the blood by glomerllar filtration only, and many of these could be labelled with technetium 99m, but renograms obtained using these substances would suffer from the same disadvantages as those obtained from DTPA. Three necessary features for a gamma camera renography agent are a it must be capable of being removed from the blood by tubular secretion as well as by glomerular filtration in the kidneys b it must not accumulate significantly in the kidney or any other organ and c it must be capable of being labelled withTechnetium 99m. The present invention results from our discovery that substances having the aforesaid characteristics are acids having the formula HOOC CH2 X CH2 COOH where X is sulphur or selenium and non toxic salts thereof.These substances are denoted as thiodiglycollic acid FDG and its selenium analogue. Experiments in pigs have shown TDG Tc 99m to have a clearance rate 59 of that ofHippuran I 131, thus demonstrating that TDG is indeed removed by tubular secretion. TDG Tc 99m is a known compound, for it has been described by Inoue 0, Ikeda I and Kurata K in Radioisotopes, 1976, 25, 24 30. The authors were looking for agents for renal scanning, that is to say, for static agents which would give a high kidney to background emission ratio.For this purpose, they required agents which would become localised in the kidneys. Although there is some confusion between TDG and DTG dithiodiglycollic acId in the article, their conclusions were that TDG Tc 99m was excreted rapidly outside the kidneys and appeared to behave similarly toDTPA Tc 99m and was therefore unsuitable for their purpose. Inoue et al were not concerned with glomerular filtration and tubular excretion. Their article does not suggest that TDG Tc 99m might be excreted by tubular excretion, and accordingly does not suggest that this agent might be suitable for gamma camera renography. In one aspect, the present invention is for the use ofTDG Tc 99m or its selenium analogue in renography. In another aspect, this invention provides, in a method of performing renography by administering to a patient a radioactive substance which accumulates transiently in the kidneys, but is rapidly excreted from them into the urine without significant accumulation elsewhere in the body, mounting a gamma camera or other device for recording gammaradiation adjacent each kidney, recording the varia tions in radioactive emissions from each kidney with time and comparing the records so as to detect malfunctioning of either kidney, the improvement which consists in that the radio active substance used is TDG Tc 99m or its selenium analogue. In another aspect, this invention relates to the preparation of TDG Tc 99m and its selenium analogue.Technetium 99m is obtained in the eluate from a technetium generator as the pertechnetate ion TcO4, in which form it does not readily form complexes. The technetium is therefore reduced from the 7 valency, probably to the 3 . 4 or 5 valency and often in the presence of the reagent with which it is desired to form a complex. Various methods involving tin as the reducing agent are known for this purpose, but not all are equally effective to form a complex having the desired biological properties. This invention envisages two alternative methods i The conventional method for the production ofTc 99m complexes, namely addition of the generator eluate to a large excess of Sn C12 or other water soluble stannous salt in admixture with TDG gives rise to a product having relatively poor biological properties. Mixtures ofSn C12 or other stannous salt together with a cuprous cr cupric salt were found to give rapid formation of a product having good biological properties. ii When tin metal, rather than a stannous salt, is used as the reducing agent, the reduction proceeds rather slowly and incompletely and an insoluble residue is produced. However, when a water soluble salt of a more noble metal than tin, for example cupric chloride Curl, is present, the reduction goes rapidly with little formation of solid residue to give a product having satisfactory biological properties. The following Examples show preparation of the labelled complexes. EXAdSLE I Cuprous chloride 50mg was dissolved in concentrated hydrochloric acid 5ml , and this solution added to a stirred solution of TDG l.Og and SnF2 2mg in nitrogenpurged water 95me . The pH of the resultant solution was adjusted to 4.0 with a concentrated solution of sodium hydroxide and the volume increased to 100ml with water. TDG is about half neutralised at pH4 o lml aliquots were dispensed into l0ml glass vials. Formation of the Tc 99m complex was achieved either by direct treatment of the TDG solution with a saline solution of Tc04, or by treatment of the solid resulting from freeze drying the TDG solution with a saline solution of Tc04. Each vial contained ingredients derived from TDG lOmg SnF 20g CuCl 500pg Formation of the desired complex was rapid and the biological results were satisfactory. However, with the freeze dried ampoules, some variability of results indicated that the preparation was insufficiently robust to freeze drying. Similar results were obtained when cupric chloride was used in place of cuprous chloride. EXAMPLE 2 A TDG solution was prepared and dispensed as described in Example 1, except that 1.5ml of the cuprous chloride inHC1 solution was added to a solution of TDG l.OgX SnF2 50mg , and NaF loom in water 95ml . Formation of theTc 99m complex was also as described in 1. Each vial contained ingredients derived from TDG lonig SnF2 500pug NaF lmg CuCl 150pug Formation of the desired complex was rapid and the biological results were satisfactory. The preparation proved robust to freeze drying. EXAMPLE 3 640 mg of recrystallised TDG was dissolved in 28 ml deionised water, and 4 ml of a 4 mg ml solution of CuC12.2H20 was added. The pH of the solution was adjusted to 4.0 with solid NaHCO3, or with dilute NaOH solution. The solution was filtered and 1 ml aliquots dispensed in vials and freeze dried. lcm pieces of tin foil were degreased by washing with methyl ethyl ketone. One piece of foil was added to each vial, and the vial purged with nitrogen and sealed. Each vial contained TDG 20mg CuCl2.2H2 0 0.Smg Tin foil l.cm2 pH 4.0 Each vial was reconstituted by the addition of 15ml of a saline solution of TcO4 and the desired complex was rapidly formed. The selenium analogue of TDG Tc 99m may be made analogously by using selena diglycollic acid in place ofTDG EXAMPLE 4 Selenadiglycollic acid SeDG was prepared as described in the literature J.C.S. Dalton Trans., 1975, 2297 . Preparation of the technetium complex was as follows A ltm2 piece of tin foil was Activated by treat ment with l0ml of concentrated hydrochloric acid for 1 minute. The tin foil was thoroughly washed with ethanol, and placed in a l0ml glass vial. Added to the vial were 0.5ml of freshly prepared solution of SeDG prepared at a concentration of 4mg ml, with the pH adjusted to 4.0 using solid NaHCO3 , and 0.5ml of a saline solution of TcO4 . Formation of theTc complex was slow, but yields in excess of 92 were attained 1 hour postpreparation. Samples for animal biodistribution studies were administered 1 2 hours post preparation. In rats, Tc 99m SeDG demonstrated a mean clearance half time of 14.6 minutes and 90 of injected activity in the bladder on dissection, 2 hours post administration, EXAMPLE 5 ANIMAL TESTS IN PIGS. Female pigs were anaesthetized and positioned in front of two radiation detection probes, one placed over the right kidney and the other over the heart. Into an ear vein was injected one of the two following solutions A TDG Tc 99m and Hippuran 1 131 B DTPA Tc 99m and Hippuran I 131 The probes recorded radioactive emissions from bothTc 99m and separately I 131 ovor a period of 80 minutes after injection, and typical results which are means of readings front several animals are set out in Table I. TABLE IEMI9.1 tb SEP Test SEP Solution tb SEP A SEP B tb Relative SEP kidney SEP uptake SEP index tb SEP 5 SEP minutes SEP 53.3 SEP 32.1 tb SEP 10 SEP minutes SEP 51.7 SEP 26.8 SEP tb SEP 30 SEP minutes SEP 59,S SEP 38.2 tb Kidney SEP counts tb SEP Time SEP to SEP max SEP min. SEP 1.13 SEP 1.15 tb SEP Time SEP to SEP 4 SEP max SEP min. SEP 1.32 SEP 2.17 tb SEP 80 SEP min SEP as SEP Z SEP of SEP max SEP 1.91 SEP 3.93 tb Heart SEP clearance SEP ratio SEP Tc I SEP 1.75 SEP 3.46 tb The relative kidney uptake index is a measure of the kidney to background ratio of the Tc agent compared with the corresponding ratio of Hippuran at different times after injection Tc kidney Tc heart x razz x 100 Hippuran kidney Hippuran heartThe ratio for TDG at maximum is 1.6 to 2.0 times greater than for DTPA. The kidney counts are for Tc 99m only and show the time taken after injection to reach maximum count rate the time taken after injection for the count rate to fall to half the maximum and the count rate at 80 minutes as a percentage of the maximum. Significantly more of the DTPA complex remains in the kidney 80 minutes after injection than of the TDG complex. The heart clearance ratio is the time taken for half the Tc 99m radioactivity to be cleared from the heart expressed as a fraction of the time taken for half the I 131 radioactivity to be cleared from the heart. TDG was cleared significantly more quickly than was DTPA. In fact, the clearance rate of TDG was 59 of Hippuran, and that of DTPA was 28 of Hippuran. DTPA is a representative substance which is cleared from the blood by glomerular filtration but not by tubular secretion. The above results demonstrate that TDG is cleared from the blood by both glomerular filtration and tubular secretion and does not accumulate significantly in the kidney or in any other organ. EXAMPLE 6 ANIMAL TESTS IN RATS. Comparative data for Hippuran, Tc 99m TDG and Sc 99m DTPA in rats is set out in Table II. TABLE IIEMI10.1 tb SEP SEP in SEP Clearance SEP tb Agent SEP 2 SEP hour SEP urine SEP at SEP half SEP SEP title SEP tb SEP dissection SEP SEP Ins SEP infected SEP dose SEP 30 SEP min SEP min tb SEP Kidney SEP Liver SEP Intestine SEP Bladder SEP SEP p.i. SEP tb Hippuran SEP 0.2 SEP 0.2 SEP 2.5 SEP 93.0 SEP 82.6 SEP 10.4 tb Tc DTPA SEP 1.0 SEP 0.4 SEP 0.9 SEP 96.0 SEP 66.5 SEP 17.1 SEP tb Tc DTG SEP 0.5 SEP 1.2 SEP 1.0 SEP 94.5 SEP 73.7 SEP 13.5 tb