# Method and apparatus for coating filaments.

## Abstract
Apparatus for coating a filament 24 to make magnet wire includes a die block 64 with entrance and exit dies 61, 62 each having an entrance 80, 92 , an exit 86, 96 , and a throat 82, 93 the respective throats being connected to the respective entrances by respective converging interior walls 84, 94 . The block 64 has an interior passage 65 which, to gether with the dies 61, 62 forms a central die chamber 95 filled with flowable, hardenable coating material 115 to form a coating on the filament 24 passing through the dies 61, 62 . The material 115 is supplied at a controlled temperature and pressure through a bore 75 .

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method of manufacturing magnet wire or the like in which a flowable, hardenable material is applied to a filament to a required thickness in a single pass whereby the filament may be drawn or otherwise formed, coated, and spooled in a continuous operation, the method comprising a. passing the filament 24 through an entrance die 61 b. passing the filament through an exit die 62 , the exit die having a throat 82 , an entrance ope ning 80 larger than the throat and connected thereto by a converging interior wall 84 thereby defining a die cavity between the throat 82 and the entrance opening 80 and the filament 24 and the wall 84 , the entrance die 61 and the exit die 62 defining and partially enclosing a die chamber 95 c. filling the die chamber 95 with flowable, harde nable material 115 d. raising the pressure of the material 115 in the die chamber 95 above atmospheric pressure e. passing the filament through the die chamber 95 thereby applying material 115 on to the filament f. centering the filament in the throat 93 of the exit die 61 with the material 115 in the die chamber 95 and g. wiping excess material from the filament leaving thereon a concentric coat of the material of the required thickness. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein the entrance die 61 and the exit die 62 are held in a die block 64 , the die block and the entrance and exit dies defining the die chamber 95 , and wherein the said filling step comprises passing the material 115 through a passage 75 in the die block, the passage fluidly connecting the die chamber with a material reservoir 50 . 3. A method according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the wiping step includes the step of passing the filament through the exit die 62 , which has a size relationship with the size of the filament such as to control the thickness of the coating material 115 on the filament. 4. A method according to any preceding claim wherein the entrance die 61 is small enough to prevent leakage of the material from the die chamber 95 while the filament is passing therethrough at the said pressure and large enough to allow leakage when the filament is stationary in the entrance die 61 at the said pressure. 5. A method according to any preceding claim wherein the centering step includes the step of controlling the viscosity of the material 115 in the die chamber 95 . 6. A method according to any preceding claim wherein the centering step includes the step of controlling the pressure of the material 115 in the die chamber 95 . 7. A method according to any preceding claim wherein the flowable, hardenable material is a heat softenable material, and the centering step includes controlling the temperature of the dies 61, 62 . 8. A method according to any preceding claim wherein the flowable, hardenable material is a heat softenable material, and the centering step includes controlling the temperature of the filament. 9. A method according to ány preceding claim wherein the centering step includes causing movement of the material 115 within the die chamber 95 . 10. A method according to any preceding claim wherein the filament is of the group comprising bare copper and aluminium conductors and insulated conductors having a previously applied base insulation. 11. A method according to any preceding claim wherein the flowable, hardenable material is of the group comprising nylon, polyethylene terephthalates, polybutylene terephthalates, polyethylenes, polyphenylene sulfide, polycarbonates, polypropylenes, polyethersulfone, polyether imides, polyether etherketone, polysulphones, epoxys, fluorocarbons including ethylene chlorotrifluoroethylene and ethylene tetrafluoroethylene, polyvinyl formal, phenoxys, polyvinyl butyrol, polyamide imide, polyesters, and combinations thereof. 12. A method according to any preceding claim wherein the material in the die chamber has a viscosity of from 5,000 cps to 200,000 cps. 13. A method according to any preceding claim wherein the entrance die opening 80 is from O.lmm greater in diameter than the diameter of the filament. 14. A method according to claim 6 wherein the said pressure is not greater than 140 Kg Cm2. 15. Apparatus for the manufacture of magnet wire comprising a die device 18 , a filament pay out device 12 , a coated filament take up device 22 , the die device 18 being located between the pay out and take up devices, and the die device including entrance and exit dies 61, 62 and a die block 64 , the die block 64 being between the dies 61, 62 , the entrance die 61 having a throat 82 , an entrance opening 80 larger than the throat 82 and connected thereto by a converging interior wall 84 and an exit opening 86 larger than the throat 82 and connected thereto by a diverging interior wall 88 , the exit die 62 having a throat 93 , and an entrance opening 92 larger than the throat 93 and connected thereto by a converging interior wall 94 , the die block 64 having an interior passage 65 communicating with the exit opening 86 of the entrance die 61 and the entrance opening 92 of the exit die 62 , thereby defining a die chamber 95 between the diverging interior wall 88 and the passage 65 and the converging interior wall 94 , the entrance and exit dies 61, 62 being positioned to receive a filament 24 trained between the pay out device 12 and the take up device 22 in the openings and throats thereof a reservoir 50 of flowable, hardenable material means 16 connected to the reservoir 50 for filling the die chamber 95 with material 115 and maintaining the material in the die chamber at elevated pressures and means including the material in the die chamber for centering the filament in the throats 82, 93 of the dies 61, 62 . 16. Apparatus according to claim 15 including means 14 for heating the filament 24 between the pay out device 12 and the die device 18 , the heating means 14 being arranged to heat the filament from ambient temperature to the decomposition temperature of the material at a position prior to the filament entering the die device 18 . 17. Apparatus according to claim 15 or claim 16, including means 14 for heating the filament between the payout device and the die device, and means 76 for heating the die device 18 and the material in the reservoir 50 and the die chamber 95 . 18. Apparatus according to any of claims 15 to 17 comprising means including the filament, the die device, and the reservoir heating means for controlling the viscosity of the material 115 in the die chamber 95 . 19. Apparatus according to any of claims 15 to 18 including means 20 for hardening the material on the filament between the die device 18 and the take up device 22 . 20. Apparatus according to claim 16 wherein the filament heating means 14 includes means for annealing the filament. 21. Apparatus according to any of claims 15 to 20 including a second die device 18 disposed between the payout device 12 and the take up device 22 , the second die device including entrance and exit dies and a die block between the entrance and exit dies, the entrance die having a throat, an entrance opening larger than the troat and connected thereto by a converging interior wall and an exit opening larger than the throat and connected thereto by a diverging interior wall, the exit die having a throat and an entrance opening larger than the throat and connected thereto by a converging interior wall, the die block having an interior passage communicating with the exit opening of the entrance die and the entrance opening of the exit die thereby defining a die chamber between the diverging interior wall and the passage and the converging interior wall, the entrance and exit dies being positioned to receive a filament trained between the payout and take up devices in the said openings and the throats of the entrance and exit dies. 22. Apparatus according to claim 19 wherein the die device 18 , the filling and maintaining means 16 , and the hardening means 20 together constitute a filament coating station, the apparatus including a plurality of such coating stations in spaced apart relationship to each other and to the take up and pay out devices 22,12 . 23. Apparatus for the manufacture of a coated filament for example magnet wire comprising a die device 18 , the die device including an entrance die 61 and an exit die 62 and a die block 64 , the die block being between the dies 61, 62 , the entrance die 61 having a throat 82 , an entrance opening 80 larger than the throat 82 and connected thereto by a converging interior wall 84 and an exit opening 86 larger than the throat 82 and connected thereto by a diverging interior wall 88 , the exit die 62 having a throat 93 and an entrance opening 92 larger than the throat 93 and connected thereto by a converging interior wall 94 , the. die block 64 having an interior passage 65 communicating with the exit opening 86 of the entrance die 61 and the entrance opening 92 of the exit die 62 thereby defining a flowable material centering chamber 95 between the diverging interior wall 88 and the passage 65 and the converging interior wall 94 . 24. An apparatus for the manufacture of a coated filament, for example magnet wire, comprising a filament pay out device 12 , a coated filament take up device 22 , and a die device 18 between the pay out and take up devices, wherein the die device 18 includes entrance and exit dies 61, 62 and a die block 64 , the die block being between the dies 61, 62 , the entrance die having a throat 82 , an entrance opening 80 larger than the throat 82 and connected thereto by a converging interior wall 84 and an exit opening 86 larger than the throat and connected by a diverging interior wall 88 , the exit die 62 having a throat 93 and an entrance opening 92 larger than the throat 93 and connected thereto by a converging interior wall 94 , the die block 64 having an interior passage 65 communicating with the exit opening 86 of the entrance die 61 and the entrance opening 92 of the exit die 62 , thereby defining a die chamber 95 between the diverging interior wall 88 and the passage 65 and the converging interior wall 94 , an applicator means 16 , connected to a reservoir 50 of coating material for filling the die chamber 95 with coating material 115 at a desired pressure, and, when the filament enters the die device 18 , the interior wall 84, 88 providing a surface adjacent to which the material 115 creates a support of coating material such that the filament 24 does not contact the die device and is centered in the die throats 82, 83 so as to form a continuous and concentric layer of coating material 115 on the filament.

## Description
The invention relates to magnet wire and a method and apparatus for manufacturing magnet wire, and more particularly, to a method and apparatus for applying a coating of flowable resin material on a continuously moving filament to a desired thickness in a single pass. Magnet wire has been conventionally manufactured by passing a bare copper or aluminium conductor or a previously insulated copper or aluminium conductor through a bath of liquid enamel a solution of resin material in a solvent and then through an oven for driving off the solvent from the enamel and or curing the resin material, leaving a resin material coat on the conductor. The application of a coat of resin material to a filament from solution accounts for all the magnet wire manufactured today. While some materials using present methods can only be applied from solution, the cost of the solvent expended in applying resin material from solution is usually significant. Also, the machinery used is complex and expensive, although the machinery cost is usually not a factor since most of such machinery has been in use for a considerable number of years.Nevertheless, the original cost of such machinery is significant in a new installation. In addition to the cost of machinery and solvent, there is the cost of providing and maintaining pollution control equipment since recently laws have required that the oven exhaust gas of such machines be virtually freed of solvent before the gases are exhausted to atmosphere. While various methods of burning the vaporized solvent and or reclaiming the solvent have been proposed, all such methods result in further expense to the manufacturer. Additionally, the application of a layer of resin material to a filament from solution usually requires several successive coats in order to result in a concentric coat of a required thickness. For example, six coats may be required for a 0.08mm coating, although in some applications as many as 24 coats have been required. Also, multiple coats of some materials cannot be applied successfully from solution, due to lack of good adhesion and wetting between coats. It is therefore desirable to provide an improved method of manufacturing magnet wire which avoids the use of solvent. Also it would be desirable to provide an improved method which would use an apparatus of simple design. Also it would be desirable to provide a method which would allow the wire to be drawn, coated and spooled in a continuous operation conventionally the wire is drawn, annealed if necessary, and spooled and then coated and spooled again for shipment. Additionally, it would be desirable to provide a method and apparatus which can successfully apply multiple layers of materials which have heretofore not been possible.Finally, it would be desirable to provide a method and apparatus which would not require the use of solvent or pollution control apparatus, or be limited to materials requiring an oven cure, or require multiple coats to obtain a coating of the required continuity and concentricity. Applying coatings of resin material by extrusion is substantially less common than applying coatings from solution, since conventional extrusion processes are limited. Coatings of O.lOmm and less are either difficult or impossible to apply by conventional extrusion processes. Also, the number of materials which can be successfully applied by conventional extrusion processes is limited. Polyvinyl chloride, polyethylene, polypropylene and various elastomeric rubbers comprise 99 of the materials which can be applied by extrusion. These materials are not used in a true magnet wire application, i.e. an electrical winding, the turns of which are insulated to provide low voltage, mechanical, and thermal protection between turns, and do not possess magnet wire properties.In contrast, these materials are conventionally used in electric mains wire applications which must protect against the full input line voltage to an electrical device. Conventionally, extrusion is used in the production only of cables, building wire, and elec tric mains wire. While the apparatus used in conventional extrusion processes is relatively simple when compared to a conventional wire coating tower, and the extrusion process can be carried out continuously whereby the filament may be drawn, coated and spooled in a continuous operation, nevertheless the conventional extrusion apparatus is not without problems. Conventional extruders include a centering die, a material reservoir and a sizing die. The centering die mechanically centers the filament in the sizing die, the sizing die determines the exterior dimensions of the coated filament and the thickness of the coat applied to the filament. The primary problem associated with extrusion apparatus is the wear on the centering die.Since the centering die is used to center the filament within the sizing die, the centering die must be finely adjusted to achieve a concentric coating, and must be replaced periodically due to the wear resulting from contact between the filament and the die. Centering dies tend to be expensive even when made of hardened steel because of the wear that occurs, diamond centering dies have been considered, but not widely used. Therefore it would be desirable to provide an improved method and apparatus for manufacturing magnet wire which would have the benefits of an extrusion process but not its disadvantages. Such a method and apparatus would reduce the cost of the machinery to manufacture magnet wire and would eliminate the need for solvent, reduce manufacturing costs, conserve raw materials and energy, eliminate the need for pollution control apparatus, require less expensive and simpler machinery than is now conventional, and allow for continuous operation from wire drawing to final ship ment without being limited to materials from solution or oven cures. It is therefore an object of this invention to provide an improved method and apparatus for manufacturing magnet wire which does not require solutions of insulation material and therefore avoids the need for solvents, pollution control equipment or for reclaiming solvents from the manufacturing process, reduces the cost of manufacturing at least proportionally to the cost of solvent, and conserves energy at least to the degree that energy is required to remove solvents from the insulation material. In the broader aspects of the invention, there is provided a method and apparatus for manufacturing magnet wire in a continuous process by which a coating of a flowable resin material may be applied concentrically to a moving elongated filament in thicknesses of about 0.40mm or less. The filament can be a bare copper or aluminium conductor of round or rectangular configuration, or an insulated conductor upon which a top coat or an intermediate coat of material is applied. Coatings of 0.013mm or 0.025mm can also be applied by the method of the invention. By the method and apparatus of the invention, magnet wire can be manufactured by continuously drawing the wire to size, annealing the wire if necessary, insulating the wire with one or more coats of the flowable resin material, curing the resin material if necessary, hardening the resin material, and spooling the wire for shipment, without interruption, at speeds limited only by the filament pay out and take up devices used. The apparatus of the invention uses the flowable resin material to centre the filament in a die, and the size of the die controls the thickness of the coat to be applied. In the apparatus of the invention, only the resin material being applied to the filament is in contact with the filament. Thus, the mechanical wear normally associated with centering dies used in extrusion processes and is avoided.Further, the apparatus and method of the invention can be used to apply coats several times thinner than is possible with conventional extrusion apparatus and of materials different than those conventionally extruded onto filaments. In specific embodiments using heat softenable materials or melts, curing is no longer required and thus, the need for curing, catalytic burners and the like, as well as all concern regarding atmospheric pollution, are eliminated. The coated filaments and magnet wire made by the apparatus and method of the invention have coatings which are surprisingly concentric and continuous when compared to magnet wire made by conventional methods and apparatus. An embodiment of the invention will now be described by way of example, with reference to the drawings in which Fig. 1 is a perspective, fragmentary and diagramatic view of one embodiment apparatus Fig. 2 is a cross section of a coating die substantially on the plane 2 2 in Fig. 1 Fig. 3 is an elevation of the coating die as seen from the line 3 3 in Fig. 1 and Fig. 4 is a cross section of the coating die on the plane 4 4 of Fig. 2. Referring to Fig. 1, the apparatus 10 includes a filament pay out device 12, a filament heater 14, a coating material dispenser 16, a coating die 18, a hardener 20, and a filament take up device 22. InFig. 1 the filament 24 is shown broken at 26, 28, and 30. At the break 26, when the apparatus is used to manufacture magnet wire, conventional wire drawing equipment may be inserted. Thus an oversized filament 24 may be reduced to the required size by the drawing equipment prior to coating the filament. The filament heater 14 may include an annealer whereby the effects of drawing or stretching the wire may be eliminated.In other embodiments in which magnet wire is being manufactured, additional coating dies 18 and hardeners 20 may be inserted at the break 28 such that successive coats of different coating materials may be applied in a continuous manner. The term filament is used herein for all strand materials. Filament thus includes both copper and aluminium conductors, and also insulated copper and aluminium conductors which, prior to the application of a coat of material by the present apparatus, have been insulated with a base coat of insulating material, a tape of insulating material either spirally or longitudinally wrapped on the conductor, or other conventional insulating materials, and other strand materials desirably coated. While the specific embodiments herein described primarily relate to the manufacture of magnet wire, the apparatus of the invention is thought to have utility in coating other kinds of filaments than conductors or insulated conductors for the production of magnet wire. The term flowable material is used herein for the general class of coating materials applied by the method and apparatus of the invention. Again, while the embodiments herein described refer to meltable coating materials which can be hardened by cooling the material to ambient temperatures, other coating materials which are flowable at elevated temperatures and pressures are contemplated as being within the said general class of coating materials which can be applied.These materials include materials which are initially flowable but are later hardened by curing or thermosetting the material and also coating materials which may include up to about 5 by weight of solvent to render them flowable and later hardenable by driving the solvent from the material. In the manufacture of magnet wire, several different materials can be applied. These include polyamides such as Nylon, polyethylene terephthalates, polybutylene terephthalates, polyethylenes, polyphenylene sulfide , polycarbonates, polypropyl enes, polyethersulfone, polyether imides, polyether etherketone, polysulphones, epoxys, fluorocarbons including ethylene chlorotrifluoroethylene and hylene tetrafluoroethylene polyvinyl formal, phenoxys, polyvinyl butyrol, polyamide imide, polyesters and combinations thereof. The filament pay out device 12 includes a first spool 32 on which the filament 24, desirably coated, is stored. The spool 32 is mounted on spindle 34 of the pay out device 12 so as to rotate freely in the direction of arrow 36. The spool 32 has a brake 38 which restrains its rotation as the filament 24 is being pulled therefrom by the take up device 22, so as to prevent entanglements. It is possible that, in a magnet wire manufacturing plant where conductors are being rolled, drawn or otherwise reduced in size to the required filament from ingots, the pay out device 12 can be omitted, since the remaining apparatus can be used to coat filament continuously in a single pass as the filament is supplied from the rolling and drawing apparatus.The spools 32 in this instance can be the reels upon which bare copper and aluminium conductors are now transported from the rolling and drawing apparatus to the magnet wire manufacturing plant. When the take up device 12 is omitted and rolling and drawing apparatus substituted, an annealer is used to eliminate the effects of working the conductor during rolling and drawing. A filament heater 14 may be used solely to raise the temperature of the filament prior to application of the coating material, or may be used to anneal the filament if hard, bare wire is used, or further to reduce the effects of the rolling and drawing, if required. The filament heater 14 may be an annealer, or may be simply a filament heater. The filament heater 14 comprises a resistance coil 40, generally tubular in shape, and having opposite open ends 42 and 44. The filament 24 is trained between the payout device 12 and the take up device 22 through the coil 40. The filament heater 14 also has a control 46 by which the temperature of the filament 24 can be controlled. The filament heater 14 may also include a filament temperature measuring device such as a radiation pyrometer.Hereinafter in specific examples, the approximate wire temperatures given have been measured by such a device. The coating die 18 is illustrated in Figs. 1 to 4.The coating die 18 includes an entrance die 61, an exit die 62 and a die block 64. Entrance die 61 is mounted in the forward portion of die block 64 by screws 66.Exit die 62 is mounted in the rearward portion of die block 64 by screws 66 . Separating entrance die 61 and exit die 62 is an interior passage 65. Die block 64 is provided with heater bores 68 in which heaters 70 are positioned. Each heater 70 may for example be a tubular calrod heater. Additionally, the die block 64 has a thermocouple bore 72 in which a thermocouple 74 Fig 4 may be placed. Further, die block 64 has a nozzle bore 75 to which the nozzle 54 of material applicator 16 is connected. Hereinafter, die temperatures are given with regard to specific examples these die temperatures are measured by the thermocouple 74. Heaters 70 are connected by conductors to a heater 76.Heater 76 is provided with paired controls 78 whereby the temperature of the entrance die 61 and the exit die 62 can each be raised above ambient temperature for each die and controlled, respectively, as required. Referring to Fig. 2, the entrance die 61 includes an entrance opening 80, a throat 82 and a converging interior wall 84 which connects the throat 82 and the entrance opening 80. Entrance die 61 also has an exit opening 86 and a diverging interior wall 88 interconnecting the throat 82 and the exit opening 86. The entrance die 61 may be constructed as illustrated in two piece fashion, having a central piece 90 including a throat portion of harder and more wear resistant material, and exterior piece 90 which includes both the entrance opening 80 and the exit opening 86. The exit die 62 includes an entrance opening 92, a throat 93 and a converging interior wall 94 which interconnects the throat 93 and the entrance opening 92.Converging interior wall 94 part defines a die chamber 95 as will be mentioned hereinafter. Exit die 62 also has an exit opening 96 and a diverging interior wall 97 that interconnects the throat 93 and the exit opening 96. The exit die 62 may be constructed as illustrated in two piece fashion having a central piece 98 including a throat portion of harder and more wear resistant material than the exterior piece 98 which includes both the entrance opening 92 and exit opening 96. The converging walls 84 and 94 define an angle A with filament 24 of from 5 to 40 degrees and throats 82 and 93 are tapered from converging walls 84 and 94 to diverging walls 88 and 97 so as to define an angle with the filament 24 of 1 to 2 degrees. The flowable material applicator 16 Fig. 1 has a hopper 48 by which the material is supplied to the applicator, a material reservoir 50 in which the material may be stored, and a positive displacement pump which pressurizes reservoir 50 and dispenses the flowable material through a nozzle 54. When using melts or other temperature responsive flowable materials, reservoir 50 is provided with a heater and control device 56 by which the temperature of the material in the reservoir can be controlled. An additional control device 58 is associated with the positive displacement pump to control the amount of flowable material passing through nozzle 54. The fluid material applicator 16 may be an extrusion apparatus having the features above described.In those applications in which the flowable material is rendered more flowable by the use of a small amount of solvent, both the coating material and the solvent may be fed into the applicator via the hopper 48 and the reservoir 50 may have a mixing apparatus with a sepa rate control 60. The central die chamber 95 Fig. 2 is defined by the diverging wall 88 of entrance die 61, the converging interior wall 94 of exit die 62, and the walls of interior passage 65 of die block 64. Die chamber 95 is positioned between throat 82 and throat 93. The nozzle 54 is connected to nozzle bore 75 so that coating material in reservoir 50 may be injected into the central die chamber 95 under pressure by material applicator 16. The filament 24 is trained between the pay out device 12 and the take up device 22 through the entrance die 61, the central die chamber 95, and the exit die 62. The hardener 20 Fig. 1 hardens the coat of material on the filament 24 prior to spooling the coated filament or magnet wire by the take up device 22. The hardener 20 includes a trough 100 having opposite open ends 102 and 104. The trough is positioned such that the filament 24 can be trained to enter the open end 102, pass through the trough 100, and leave at the open end 104. As shown, the trough 100 is sloped downwardly towards the open end 102 and provided with a source of cooling fluid, such as water 108, adjacent open end 104 and a drain 110 adjacent open end 102. In some cases a water quench using the hardener 20 is needed. In other cases a quench is not required and the cooling fluid is not used. In these other cases, either a flow of ambient air or of refrigerated air is trained on the coated filament 24. In cases in which multiple coats of different materials are to be applied to the filament 24, successive, spaced coating dies 18 are used. The particular coating die used depends on the material to be applied. Each coating die will have a material applicator 16 associated with it and may also have a hardener 20 associated with it. The term coating station is used herein to refer to the assemblage of a material applicator 16, a coating die, and a hardener 20. In these cases, there will be a plurality of spaced apart coating stations between the pay out device 12 and the take up device 22. The latter comprises a second reel 32 on which the coated filament 24 is spooled for shipment. The two reels 32 may be conventional spools on which coated filaments are usually shipped. Each spool 32 is mounted for rotation on a spindle 34 and driven in the direction of the arrow 112.Connected to the second spool 32 is a spool driver 114 which drives the second spool 32 to pull the filament 24 from the first spool or reel 32. The method of the invention will now be described with reference to the manufacture of magnet wire in a single pass whereby the filament is drawn or otherwise formed, coated and spooled in a continuous operation. A continuous supply of the filament 24 is provided either by the pay out device 12 as illustrated in Fig. 1, or from a rolling and drawing operation. If supplied from a rolling and drawing operation, the filament 24 is annealed to remove the effects of rolling and drawing. The filament 24 is then heated if required, depending on the coating material used and the wire properties needed. Thus the filament 24 may be heated by the heating device 14 to a temperature from ambient temperature to the decomposition temperature of the coating material. In most applications using a melt or heatresponsive flowable material in which the coat of material is adhered to the filament 24, the filament is heated to a temperature from just below to about the melting point of the coating material. In most applications using a melt or a heat responsive flowable material in which adhesion of the coat of material to the filament 24 is not required, the filament is maintained from the ambient temperature to slightly above ambient temperature. The central die chamber 95 is then filled with a flowable material. The. flowable material is stored in the reservoir 50 at a flowable temperature and pressure and is injected into the chamber 95 by applicator 16. Once the chamber 95 has been filled, the material therein will assume the pressure of the flowable coating material in the reservoir 50. The pump must have an adequate capacity to maintain pressures up to about 2000 psi in reservoir 50 and chamber 95. By use of the control 58, the responsiveness to pressure changes desired can be controlled. By controls 56 and 78, the temperature of the material in the reservoir 50 and chamber 95 can be controlled. The pressurized temperature of the flowable material in the central die chamber 95 must be carefully controlled for several reasons.First, if the pressure and or temperature of the flowable material in the chamber 95 is too great, the material may have the tendency to leak in a significant quantity from the chamber 95 through throat 82, although the filament passing through throat 82 will allow operating pressures higher than that at which the flowable material will leak from opening 80 when the filament is stationary in opening 80. Any significant leakage of material from the die block 64 is to be avoided. Secondly, both the pressure and temperature of the flowable material relate to the viscosity and or flow characteristics of the flowable material, and must be such that the viscosity and or flow characteristics of the flowable material performs its centering function relative to the exit die 62 and produces a concentric coating as will be discussed , wets the filament to be coated, and adheres to the filament.Thirdly, if the pressure and the temperature of the flowable material is too low, excessive filament stretching may occur by virtue of die 18 resisting unduly the movement of the. filament. It is for these reasons that the applicator 16 has the controls 56, 58, and 60. The coating material is then applied to the filament 24 by passing it through die 18. The coating material within the die chamber functions to center the filament 24 within the throat portions 82 and 93 of dies 61 and 62. In all instances known to the applicants wherein the central die chamber 95 is properly filled with coating material 115 and the temperature and pressure therein are properly controlled, filaments 24 that are coated by the method and apparatus of the invention have a surprisingly concentric and continuous coat of coating material thereon. Conversely, in all cases in which the central die chamber 95 is not properly filled, and or the temperature and pressure therein is not properly controlled, a non concentric and discontinuous coating of material is applied to the filament 24.Thus proper filling of the central die chamber 95 with coating material, and control of the temperature and pressure of the coating material therein are important. Coating materials of various types have been successfully applied in accordance with the method of the invention by the above described apparatus at viscosities from 5,000 cps to 200,000 cps. The action of the flowable material in the central die chamber 95 is not fully understood, but it does result in filaments having coatings of virtually perfect concentricity and continuity thereon. The coating material in the central die chamber 95 is believed to have movement adjacent the throat 93 of the exit die 62. The throat portion 82 of the entrance die 61 prevents the flowable material in the chamber 95 from leaking from die 18 through die 61. Depending upon the flow properties of the coating material, throat portion.82 will have a diameter of from 0.08 mm to 0.38 mm larger than the diameter of filament 24. The throat portion 93 regulates the thickness of the coating material left on the filament 24 leaving the die 18. The size of the throat portion 93 varies in accordance with the size of the filament 24, and the required thickness of the coating material to be applied. The method of the invention has been successfully used with filaments ranging from 30 AW gauge to 9.5 mm rod.Conductors of rectangular and other cross section can also be coated, with the throats 82 and 93 of the entrance die 61 and exit die 62, respectively, provided of geometrically appropriate shape. Coatings from 0.013 mm to 0.41 mm thick can be applied by the method of the invention. Depending upon the flow properties of the coating material, the throat portion 93 will have a diameter in most cases from the required diameter to 0.05 mm larger than the required diameter of the coated filament 24 of magnet wire. The coated filament 24 is then passed through the hardener 20 to harden the coating material. While the structure and operation of the hardener has been described above, it should be emphasized that its operation depends upon the coating material used. Either a water quench or an air quench may be utilized. Additionally, for those flowable materials in which small amounts of solvent are used, the hardener 20 may be a filament heater 14, or a conventional curing oven not shown . In all cases, the type of hardener 20 used and the temperature of the cooling liquid, air or other fluid will depend on the coating material and the speed at which the coated filament passes through the hardener 20. The speed at which the driver 114 drives the second spool 32 of the take up device 22 in the embodiment of Fig. 1, is limited by the pay out 12 and take up 22 devices themselves when applying any of the coating materials mentioned herein. When the pay out device 12 is omitted and conventional rolling and drawing operations are substituted, the speed at which the takeup device 22 is driven by the driver 114 is solely by the take up device 22 itself. Examples in which conductors of various sizes have been coated with coating material in accordance with the invention are tabulated in the following Table. TheTable relates to the production of magnet wire. TheTable tabulates the properties of the coating material and the conductor, the process conditions, and the physical and electrical properties of the magnet wire produced. The magnet wire produced by the apparatus and method of the invention meets the requirements of magnet wire made by existing commercial processes. The Table tabulates the physical and electrical properties of various magnet wires manufactured in accordance with the invention. A surprising characteristic of all magnet wires made in accordance with the invention is the concentricity of the coating applied to the filament and the continuity thereof. Both the concentricity and continuity are a surprising result when compared to magnet wires made by existing commercial processes, without regard to the means by which the filament 24 is centered within the coating die 18. Magnet wire produced by known commercial processes, such as the application of coatings from solution, periodically result in non concentric coatings and non continuous coatings. In fact, the continuity of coatings applied from solution is such that reliance upon a single coating of magnet wire insulation is unknown and for this reason multiple coatings are used. Magnet wire having a single coat is a commercial reality due to the concentricity and thickness of the coatings that can be applied by the apparatus and method of the invention. Table Page 1 2 Coat TandemEx.1. Ex.2. Ex.3. Ex.4. Ex.5. Ex.6.Flowable Material Nylon Nylon Nylon Nylon Dacron DacronWire Size 18 Al 18 Al 18 A 18 Al 18 CopperBase Coat Polyester Polyester Polyester Amideimide DacronDie Size Entry Exit 1.37 1.105 1.37 1.105 1.37 1.105 1.37 1.105 BSCT TOPMm. 1.40 1.08 1.15 1.12Approx Melt Temp C 293 293 307 293 282 282Die Temp. C. 300 300 315 300 290 290Anneal Volts. 0 0 0 0 9Wite Heat ControlWheel C. 0 0 0 0 210Speed M Min. 30.5 30.5 30.5 30.5 75 92Die Press Kg Cm2 50 53 46 53 63 74 28 35 32 35 63 70Physical Properties Ansi Nema Stds. Publ. MW1000 1977 ..Build Mm. 0.09 0.09 0.08 0.08 0.08 Smoothness Base Coat Good Good Good Good GoodElongation 35 23 25 30 31 26 30 32 33Flexibility BP 1X OK OK OK OK OKSnap OK OK OK OK OKSlit Twist 72 113 85 73 263Preheat Tube Oven 1830 1830 1830 1830 Length Mm.Tube Oven Temp C 450 450 500 Approx. Wire Temp C N A N A N A N A 300 330Electrical Properties Ansi Nema Stds. Publ. MW1000 1977 .Dielectric Breakdown 7300 9000 8200 8600 8000 9500 7900 9000 8800 10600 Continuity at V DC 2 3 4 3 2 7 Faults 30M at 3000 V previously coated with polyester. BSCT Base coat. previously coated with polyvinyl formal. TOP Top coat. previously coated with amide imide. Table Page 2 2 Coat Tandem 2 Coat Tandem 2 Coat TandemEx.7. Ex.8. Ex.9. Ex.10. Ex.11. Ex.12. Ex.13.Dacron Dacron Polyethylene Nylon Polyethylene Nylon Tefzel 280Drawn FMl2 18Al 11 Copper 12 Copper 7 CopperPolyvinyl PolyvinylDacron Formal Formal PolyimideBSCT S. TOP BSCT TOP BSCT TOP 3.91 4.03Die 1.08 1.37 1.12 2.54 2.74 2.97 2.92 2.21 2.68 2.82 2.77 282 282 290 290 300 290 300 315 290 315 5 9 0 0 0 240 270 0 0 0 43 64 15 60 30.5 45 16 30.5 21 26 21 35 14 21 32 18 42 70Total Total Total 0.08 0.06 0.65 0.3Good Good Good Good 17 25 OK OK OK OKOK 203 260 N A N A N A N A 16600 10200 8000 11400 20000 20000 15400 1 7 Table Page 3Ex.14 Ex.15. Ex.16. Ex.17. Ex.18. Ex.19.Ex.20.Flowable Material PolyethyleneWire Size 21 Copper 21 Copper 23 Copper 23 Copper 23 Copper 23 Copper 23 Copper Base Coat PRM 114 151 151 218 218 219 219Die Size Entry Exit Mm 1.22 0.95 1.22 0.95 0.95 0.70 0.76 0.70 0.89 0.83 0.89 0.83 0.76 0.70Die Press Kg Cm2 Unknown Approx. Melt Temp C. 315 260 315 260 274 274 274 274 274Temp Die C. 260 260 315 260 274 274 274 274 274Anneal Volts 0 0 25 4.6 6.5 5.5 5.0 5.0 5.5Wire Heat Control Ambient Ambient 200 200 200 200 200Wheel C 230Speed M Min 30.5 92 30.5 92 75 150 150 120 120 150Physical Properties Ansi Nema Stds. Publ. MW1000 1977 .Build Mm 0.18 0.19 0.18 0.32 0.11 0.16 0.24 0.25 0.25 0.17Smoothness Base Coat Good Good Good Good Good Good GoodElongation 10 13 10 14 12 16 16 17 15 19 15 18 17 20Flexibility BP 1X OK OK OK OK OK OK OKSnap Lost Adhes Lost Adhes Lost Adhes Lost Adhes Lost Adhes Lost Adhes Lost AdhesSlit Twist 0 0 0 0 0 0 0Approx. Wire Temp C 150 205 120 205 93 150 93 150 93 150 93 150Electrical Properties Ansi Nema Stda. Publ. MW 1000 1977 .Dielectric Breakdown 1300 19000 9500 20000 8400 13600 7400 11000 14000 16200 12800 15300 11200 13800Continuity at V DC Faults 30M at 3000V 0 5 0 5 1 2 0 1 1 1 Tinned. Table Page 4.Ex.21. Ex.22. Ex.23. Ex.24. Ex.25. Ex.26. Ex.27. Ex.28. Ex.29. Ex.30.Polypro Polyal Dacron Dacron Dacron Dacron Dacron Polyethylene pylene lomer Zytel 151 Zytel 151 Zytel 151 Zytel 151 Zytel 151 23 Copper 23 Copper 22 Copper 22 Copper 22 Copper 18 Copper 18 Copper 18 Copper 18 Copper 18 Copper 219 218 287 288 291 309 341 342 346 350 0.76 1.13 0.76 1.13 0.76 0.68 0.76 0.68 0.95 0.89 1.22 1.3 1.37 1.1 1.37 1.1 1.37 1.1 1.37 1.1 105 112 91 98 109 116 134 141 274 274 329 288 246 257 293 293 293 293 274 274 329 288 288 260 290 290 290 290 4.0 4.0 6.0 8.5 8.5 8.5 5.5 9.0 9.0 9.0 9.0 200 200 170 215 170 200 260 290 210 210 210 92 92 30.5 92 92 92 30.5 92 92 92 92 0.62 0.63 0.62 0.66 0.04 0.71 0.03 0.25 0.13 0.08 0.08 0.08 0.08Good Good Good S1 Orange S1 Orange Good Good Good Good GoodP1 P1 12 19 12 14 21 26 24 27 24 25 29 30 28 30 28 31 27 31 30 31OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OKLost Adhes Lost Adhes OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK 0 0 0 250 0 0 201 237 250 259 192 107 163 107 163 177 260 275 330 275 330 150 177 300 330 300 33 300 330 300 330 18250 18700 17000 11250 1400 8900 1900 5600 7200 9200 7200 9200 7200 9200 8975 11150 19600 20000 19000 14000 1 19 1 100 1 1 500 V 500 V 1 3 18 5 11 2 Table Page 5.Ex.31. Ex.32. Ex.33. Ex.34. Ex.35. Ex.36. Ex.37.Flowable Material Nylon Nylon Nylon Nylon Nylon Nylon NylonWire Size 20 Copper 25 Copper 19 Copper 24 Copper 24Copper 23 Copper 21 CopperDie Size Entry Exit Mm 0.95 0.86 0.76 0.63 1.1 1.01 0.66 0.56 0.66 0.56 0.76 0.63 0.86 0.79Die Press Kg Cm2 38 56 42 56 56 77 42 56 63 105 95 141 91 100Approx. Melt Temp C 290 290 288 293 290 274 274 274Oven Temp Die C 270 270 265 270 270 255 255 255Anneal Volts 17.0 17.0 18.0 18 18 22.5 20.9 21.8 21.3 21.7Wire Heat ControlWheel C 230 230 230 235 230 230 230 230Speed M Min 120 120 120 120 180 180 180Physical Properties Ansi Nema Stds. Publ. MW1000 1977 .Build Mm. 0044 0.057 0.051 0.08 0.029 0.039 0.039 0.048Smoothness Base Coat Good Good Good Good Good Good GoodElongation 28 33 25 29 26.5 30.5 26 30 28 31 26 30 27.5 30Flexibility 1X BP 1X OK OK OK OK OK OK OKSnap OK OK OK OK OK OK OKSlit Twist 216 265 240 325 193 225 275 350 320 390 250 330 285 290Approx. Wire Temp C 190 220 190 220 190 220 190 220 260 287 246 274 246 274Electrical Properties Ansi Nema Stds. Publ. MW1000 1977 .Dielectric Breakdown 3460 4900 3830 5600 5100 6600 2900 4200 4000 4800 4100 5100 4600 5300Continuity at V DC 1 9 0 12 1 9 4 23 0 9 1 17 2 9 Faults 30M 1500V 2000V 1000V 1500V 1000V 1000V 1500V Table Page 6.Ex.38. Ex.39. Ex.40. Ex.41. Ex.42. Ex.43. Ex.44. Ex.45. Ex.46. Ex.47.Nylon Nylon Nylon Tefzel 280 Nylon Nylon Dacron Dacron Elexar Dacron 20 Gopper 19 Copper 19 Copper 18copper 25 Copper 25 Copper 18 Copper 25 Copper 18 Copper 18 Copper 0.95 0.86 1.1 1.01 1.1 1.01 1.19 1.24 0.63 0.53 0.63 0.5 1.19 1.13 0.63 0.53 1.37 1.12 1.19 1.12 70 84 98 112 98 112 141 56 88 76 112 76 91 53 69 70 42 70 282 278 282 360 278 263 278 295 295 310 299 327 260 265 265 324 300 290 310 320 320 340 310 300 19.0 23.0 23.0 8.0 19.0 21.0 20 20 21 21 16.7 19 200 215 215 220 190 165 180 65 120 130 170 232 220 180 180 180 30 180 180 180 180 120 120 0.048 0.076 0.08 0.22 0.24 0.058 0.035 0.04 0.086 0.058 0.08 0.07Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good 30 32 28 29 26 27.5 31 33.5 24 31 28 31 27 35 25 28 28 31 29 31OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OKOK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK 258 249 230 0 242 377 200 275 206 254 254 300 70 240 232 260 260 287 260 287 260 315 205 246 220 246 177 232 190 220 190 220 190 220 16000 9900 6600 10100 4000 4900 6100 6400 4900 5600 4700 6000 4100 4400 7000 7800 19000 15100 10800 10900 3 8 8 9 5 11 1 1 28 3 13 0 6 0 11 9 11 6 7 1500 V 3000 V 3000 V 3000 V 3000 V 1500 V 3000 V 3000 V 3000 V 3000 V Table Page 7Ex.48. Ex.49. Ex.50. Ex.51. Ex.52. Ex.53. Ex.54.PolyethenFlowable Mterial Nylon Halar 500 sulfone Nylon Nylon Nylon Tefzel 200 Tefzel 280 wire Size 18 Copper 16 Copper 16 Copper 18 Copper 18 Copper 16 Copper 16 CopperDie Size Entry Exit Mm 1.37 1.13 1.63 1.6 1.63 1.6 1.37 1.11 1.17 1.13 1.63 1.6 1.63 1.6Die Press Kg Cm2 70 74 35 105 35 148 60 74 60 74 102 109 70 141Approx. Melt Temp C 304 304 343 354 277 365 310 307 327Oven Temp Die C 300 300 340 350 270 270 310 310 327Anneal Volts 9.0 12.5 4.0 7.0 4.5 7.0 8.0 10.0 8.6 4.0 6.0 4.0 6.0Wire Heat ControlWheel C 100 205 190 290 190 290 175 200 170 180 225 180 250Speed M min 92 120 30.5 30.5 120 120 30.5 30.5Physical Properties Ansi Nema Stds. Publ. MW1000 1977 .Build Mm. 0.066 0.083 0.2 0.3 0.24 0.31 0.08 0.08 0.302 0.348 0.27 0.49Smoothness Base Coat Good Good Good Good Good Good GoodElongation 30 34 23 35 22 33 27 35 30 34 25 36 22 37Flexibility BP 1X OK OK OK OK OK OK OKSnap OK OK OK OK OK OK OKSlit Twist 190 206 143 189 0 202 208 207 0 0Approx. Wire Temp C 287 343 107 260 107 260 260 343 274 330 107 220 107 220Electrical Properties Ansi Nema Stds. Publ. MW 1000 1977 .13500 11400 19900 Dielectric Breakdown 4900 5700 4800 6700 5800 6800 20,000 2000 2000 2000 Continuity at V DC at 9 14 1 5 1 22 4 10 3 2 4 1 3000 V Faults 30M Table Page 8Ex.55. Ex.56 Ex.57. Ex.58. Ex.59. Ex.60. Ex.61. Ex.62. Ex.63. Ex.64.Gatite GatiteNylon Nylon Nylon Nylon Nylon Dacron Dacron Dacron 16022 16000 18 Copper 18 Copper 24 Copper 15 Copper 30 Copper 18 Copper 18 Copper 18 Copper 18 Copper 18 Copper 1,37 1.13 1.37 1.12 0.76 0.56 1.63 1.6 0.36 0.32 1.37 1.12 1.37 1.12 1.37 1.12 1.37 1.12 1.37 1.2 63 77 50 56 35 74 67 74 42 53 28 63 46 70 18 63 63 70 67 77 265 293 282 288 282 288 288 288 288 288 288 270 290 270 300 300 300 300 300 300 300 8.0 8.6 15.5 16.0 18.0 16.5 17.5 16.7 21.4 16.7 16.7 16.7 16.7 16.7 175 185 152 175 235 180 185 230 230 230 230 230 230 120 120 120 120 120 213 120 120 120 120 120 0.08 0.09 0.041 0.1 0.055 0.08 0.08 0.076 0.08 0.081Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good Good 25 34 27 30 27 29.5 31.5 35 21 28 29 21 29 32 29 32.5 30 32.5 29 31OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OKOK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK 172 184 119 142 260 320 131 148 190 230 245 273 267 273 225 268 240 200 260 315 162 190 205 232 190 282 205 287 190 220 190 220 190 220 190 220 190 220 7100 8400 8000 8600 4800 5800 1600 9200 3060 5000 7400 8900 3400 4000 8100 9100 12300 16600 12100 11100 2 7 7 10 2 8 5 15 0 11 0 8 2 6 4 3 6 1500V 1500 V