# Ceramic hydrogen ion conductor and its preparation.

## Abstract
A polymorph which has a high conductivity for protons H in the form of hydronium ions H₃O is achievable with the compound known as H₃O β Al₂O₃ via the direct production of a dense K β Al₂O₃ material with a high percentage 80 or more by weight of the β alumina phase. That phase is ion exchangeable with the hydronium ion. A method of producing such potassium β alumina discloses utilizing as constituent feed components com pounds of sodium, potassium, magnesium, and aluminum, freezing them then freeze drying them and calcinating them. The resultant is K β Al₂O₃ in an ultra fine white powder form. The potassium ion K of the compound is readily ion exchangeable with H₃O .

## Claims
The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property of privilege is claimed are defined as follows 1. A potassium based compound being of white powder and of small granular structure comprising a ss alumina phase in excess of 60 , by weight, and not greater than 95 by weight. 2. The compound as claimed in claim 1 where the ss alumina phase is greater than 80 and less than 90 , by weight. 3. The compound as claimed in claim 1 or 2 wherein theB alumina phase is j3 Al2O3. 4. The compound as claimed in claim 1 or 2 wherein the compound is K ss Al203. 5. The compound as claimed in claim 1 or 2 wherein the compound is fi3O 13 Al2O3. 6. A method making a crystalline powder of a compound having a high proportion of ss l203 phase ions therein the ion having superior mobility of hydronium, comprising the steps of a selecting as constituent feed components of the compound, a group of compounds selected from the group comprising compounds of sodium, potassium, magnesium, and aluminum sulphate b mixing the feed components c dissolving the feed components in a measure of water until a clear dissolved solution is obtained d atomizing the clear solution into a spray e freezing the spray to form frozen mixes of the feed components on an automatic scale E freez rying the frozen coristituents g calcinating the frozen constituents to evolve off water until the said crystalline powder potassium compound is achieved. 7. A method of malting an ultra fine crystalline powder of K ss A1203 comprisincl the steps of a selecting as constituent feed components of the compound, a group of compounds selected from the group comprising compounds of sodium, potassium, magnesium, and alumninum sulphate b mixing th feed components c dissolving the feed components in a measure of water until a clear dissolved solution is obtained c atomizing the clear solution into a spray e freezing the spray to form frozen mixes of the feed components on an atomic scale f freeze drying the frozen constituents g calcinatirig the frozen constituents to evolve off water until the said crystalline powder potassium compound is achieved. 8. The method as claimed in claim h or 7 wherein the group of compounds consists of Na2CO3 and K2CO3 and MgSO4 and Al2 SO4 3. 9. The method as claimed in claim 6 or 7 wherein the group of compounds consists of Na2CO3 and K2CO3 and MgSO and Al2 S04 3 and, wherein the aforesaid compounds are in percentage weight radios in the range of 1 to 3 forNa2CO3 8.2 to 11.5 for K2CO3 2.0 for MgSO4 85.2 to 86.9 for Al2 SO4 3. 10. The method as claimed in claim 6 or 7 wherein the freeze drying takes place in liquid nitrogen. 11. The method as claimed in claim 6 or 7 wherein the freeze drying takes place at a temperature approximately 195.8 C or below. 12. The method as claimed in claim 6 or 7 wherein the group of compounds consists of Na2CO3 and K2CO3 and MgSO and Al2 SO4 3 and, wherein the aforesaid compounds a re in weight ratios in the range of 1 to 3 for Na2CO3 8.2 to 11.5 forK2CO3 2.0 for MgSO4 85.2 to 86.9 for Al2 SO4 3 by percentage 3 weight and wherein the freeze drying takes place in liquid nitrogen. 13. The method as claimed in claim 6 or 7 wherein the group of compounds consists of Na2CO3 and K2CO3 and MgSO4 andA12 SO4 3 and, wherein the aforesaid compounds are in weight ratios in the range of 1 to 3 for Na2CO3 8.2 to 11.5 forK2CO3 2.0 for MgSO4 85.2 to 86.9 for Al2 SO4 3 percentage weight and wherein the freeze drying takes place at a temperature approximately 195.8 C or below

## Description
This invention relates to the preparation of a ceramic hydrogen ion conductor and more particularly to a ceramic compound which has an affinity for hydrogen ions and particularly protons H in the form of hydronium H30 ions. As such the invention concerns itself with the fabrication of a powder conductor for protons that is capable of use in hydrogen fuel cells.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION It is known that hydronium beta double prime alumina 1530 ss Al203 is a superior conductor of protons but it is difficult to synthesize this material into the preferred polycrystalline form that could be used as the solid electrolyte in a fuel cell. With increasing energy concern a great deal of effort has been centered on the creation of solid stateelectrolytes. Particularly, substantial world wide interest has existed in the production of sodium ss alumina ceramics for Na S cells. Two of the present authors have been involved particularly in the preparation of powders for such ceramics. It has been found however that such sodium compounds which, for example might have the chemical formula Na2O.6A12O3 when created, though having a great affinity for hydronium ions H30 these compounds themselves may not be maintained in the solid polycrystalline structure as on Na 1130 sodium hydronium exchange, they tend to shatter into powder again. This shattering is a result of too small intecstital spaces within the molecule Na Al2O3 for accommodation of the dimensionally larger 1130 ion. This inhibits the passage of hydronium ions through the molecule. It has been determined that the conductivity to protons 11 is dependent upon an anachronism namely, the existence of a particular polymorph which might be identified according to the following equation I30 Al2O3. This particular polymo h is almost always accompanied by its sister compound S Al203 Beta alumina , but H30 beta alumina is less conductive of protons than ss polymorph. Thus the highly conductive B II polymorph is to be preferred within any composition to the beta polymorph. As we note herein sodium compounds break up on Sodium iiydronium exchange because af the narrow intenstitialspaces within the molecule of the sodium compounds. This is due to the fact that sodium which is replaced itself is a smaller ion than the hydronium ion which replaces it. We believe it is clear therefore that the intermolecular or interstited spaces of a monovalent a molecule must be increased in order to provide spacial accomodation for the larger physical size of the hydronium ion, if hydronium polymorphs are to be created that do not shatter in other words, an intermediate compound or precursor must be created from feed material which itself has larger monovalent ions, which are readily susceptable for hydronium ion interchange. Although it is known that certain halogen compounds have an extremely high affinity for protons and particularily a proton having hydronium H30 ions, we have succeeded in a method of producing high yields of such precursor compounds particularily of potassium compound which is a monovalent ion K of a physical dimension equivalent to that of the hydronium 1130 ion H30 a. A1203 . We have also conceived further a method for producing a high proportion of the a11 A1203 compound which has superior mobility of hydronium. In the powder chemical form, an aluminum halogen compound produced contains in excess of 90 of the B phase and less than 10 of the B phase. In the preferred embodiment the aluminum compound is a potassium aluminum compound. Such powder is a superior precursor for solid polycrystalline bodies that offer satisfactory exchange characteristics for hydronium. In further elaboration of the foregoing some discussion of the prior art might be helpful.Prior Art According to the present knowledge thus, H3O ss Al2O3 is an anachronism. The A1203 component is highly refractory whereas the i130 component is driven off at much lower temperatures. These physical factors bar the possibility of direct sintering of H3O ss Al2O3 powder. 1130 13 A1203 must be made therefore via ion exchanging of an already preexisting dense polycrystalline ceramic material. Such polycrystals must have the following chemical composition namely X ss Al2O3. This particular polycrystalline material might be produced according to the following equation H30 X ss Al2O3 H30 13. A1203 X . Unfortunately the crystalline structure of 13 Al 203 imposes strict limits on the identity of the X ion. It is known that X should be potassium ions K since those ions are monovalent and have a similiar physical size as the 1i30 ion. Unfortunately, K ss Al2O3 is, in turn, difficult to sinter to high density if the desirable b phase is to be achieved in high proportions. To be avoided of course in all circumstances, is the B phase which is less conductive. For example, according to the present art it is known to produce H30 13 A1203 via two ion exchange steps, one at high temperatures and one involving boiling acid.These two reactions are summarized as follows l40 C Na ss Al2O3 K2O vap K ss Al2O3 Nav0 vap a EMI3.1 Platinum Equipment K A1203 112504 H3O ss Al2O3 K2S04 b The high temperatures l1000C allow the relaxation of the stresses associated with the substituting of the larger K ions on the smaller Na sites in the ss Al2O3 crystal structure. Alkali vapor at these temperatures is very corrosive and the entire exchange apparatus must be made of platinum. From b it is clear that the platinum involved in the commercial production of H30 8 A1203 via K20 vapor exchange would be prohibitive.It is also a three stage process, if the original sintering and annealing of the Na 8 A1203 is included.The Invention We have achieved therefore a process for the direct production of a powdered K 13 Al203 material with a high percentage of the 1311 alumina phase. This is almost 100 ion exchangeable as a result of acid treatment and avoids costly high temperature vapour exchange steps which are consistent with the prior art. In one embodiment therefore we have achieved a precursor powder of the B A1203 phase up to 90 while maintaining the ss Al20 phase from 10 to 20 . In another aspect therefore this invention contemplates premixing in solution form soluble compounds of aluminium oxide and potassium, freezing them, freeze drying them, then calcining them to high calcinated potassium ss Al203 powders. In yet another aspect this invention contemplates creating compounds wherein A12O3 phase of. such compounds exceed 75 by weight of the compound. More particularily the invention contemplates the synthesis of K ss Al203 powder following calcination. The invention therefore contemplates an X aluminum base compound being of white powder and of ultra fine granular structure comprising a alumina phase in excess of. 60 , by weight, and not greater than 95 by weight. Preferrably the compound is composed of a potassium and aluminum namely K 13 Al2O3, where X is a monvalent ion whose physical size is in the center of magnitude equivalent to that of 1130 . The invention also contemplates a method of making crystalline powder of an aluminum oxide compound with intra molecular sites sized in the center of magnitude to that of Hydronium 1. and having a high proportion of 13a A1203 phase ions and X ions therein the S ions having superior mobility with hydronium, 1130 comprising the steps of a selecting, as constituent feed components a group of compounds selected from the group comprising compounds of sodium, potassium, magnesium, and aluminum sulphate b mixing the feed components c dissolving the feed components in a measure of water until a clear dissolved solution is obtained d atomizing the clear solution into a spray e freezing the spray to form frozen mixes of the feed components on an atomic scale f freeze drying the frozen constituents g calcination the frozen constituents to evolve off water until the said crystalline powder compound is achieved. The method also contemplates that X be potassiumions. The invention will now be described by way of example, there being no drawings. The synthesis of a dense K ss Al203 compound preferably K ss Al203 involves a novel technique which results in an extremely high ss phase in the powder. This technique involves, in summary, spraying a solution of a appropriate chemical solution mix into liquid nitrogen N2 and freeze drying the resultant powder to give an intimate mixture, on an atomic scale, of the original chemicals. On calcination and the evolution of volatiles under heat, the resultant oxide mixture converts to the ss Al203 phase as a result of super activity of the powder calcine.Example Constituent Feed ComponentsSample No. Na2C03 K2C03 MgS04 Al2 SO4 3 1120 z l 0.73 gr 6.77 gr 2.62 gr 249.89 gr 21. 1.0 wt 10.5 wt 2.0 wt 86.6 wt Z 2 1.46 c 6.02 gr 2.62 gr 249.89 gr 21. 1.9 9.3 wt 2.0 wt 86.8 wt 2 3 2.19 gr 5.27 gr 2.62 gr 249.89 gr 2L 2.9 wt 8.2 wt 2.0 wt 86.9 wt A l 0.73 gr 7.78 gr 2.71 gr 249.89 gr 2L 1.0 wt 11.8 wt 2.0 wt 85.2 wt Referring to the samples, the samples were created in the following fashion. In each instance the net weight or percentage weight of the constituent components of sodium carbonate,potassium carbonate, magnesium sulphate, aluminium sulphate hydrate and water wherein in each instance the 2 Litres of water dissolved the solid constituents by weight or percentage weight as indicated in the samples example table. Upon dissolution, the solutions were clear. In a vessel, liquid nitrogen was poured and into this volume of liquid nitrogen was sprayed, from the nozzle of an atomizer, the solution of sample Z l for example. On striking the surface of the liquid nitrogen the solution spray froze and white crystalline spheres were formed some of which adhered to the sides of the vessel, others of which fell into the liquid nitrogen and sank. The white powder adhering to the vessel wall was scraped down into the liquid nitrogen and spraying continued until no sample, Z l,solution was left. The liquid nitrogen was then allowed to boil off and the remenant powder removed into a tray. The tray was transported and placed into a freeze dryer and the freeze dryer was closed. A vacuum was placed on the freeze dryer and the temperature in the freeze dryer elevated to approximately 104 C. The wate phase within the powder was allowed to sublime off over a period of approximately 48 hours. The result of the product was a white powder. This resultant was removed from freeze dryer and placed in a kiln where it was elevated to a temperature of between 1250 C to 1300 C in order to calcine it for approximately 2, to 4 hours respectively. Thereafter, crystallographic X ray powder diffraction analysis was cond ted in order to determine the B phase and B phase ratio of constituent components and in relation to the samples. The lowest average value of the unpreferred ss phase was less than 20 while the that of preferred all phase was in excess of 80 . Specifically the following results were achieved H3O ss Al2O3 H3O ss Al2O3 Calcination F ss Lowest F B Time Average Value Actual Values 4 hr 0.13 0.08, 0.17 4 hr 0.08 A l 0.09, 0.07 Z l 0.07, 0.08 4 hr 0.11 0.08, 0.14 2 hr 0.12 0.08, 0.13 Where F B is the ss phase value.