# Spermicidal 1 bis arylalkyl alkylimidazoles.

## Abstract
New compounds of the formula

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A compound of the formulaEMI46.1 wherein Arl and Ar2 are each independently optionally substituted phenyl where substituted means that 1, 2, 3, 4 and or 5 hydrogens on the phenyl ring are replaced by halo, alkyl, alkoxy, or trifluoromethyl R1, R2 and R3 are each independently hydrogen or alkyl where alkyl is a branched or unbranched hydrocarbon residue containing 1, 2, 3 or 4 carbons a is an integer from 1 3 b is an integer from 1 3 c is an integer from n 2 and d is an integer from 0 2, such that c d equals 0 2 and the pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic acid addition salts thereof. 2. The compound of Claim 1 and the pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic acid addition salts thereof, wherein Arl and Ar2 are each independently selected from the group consisting of unsubstituted phenyl or phenyl substituted by substituents selected from the group consisting of halo, alkyl, and methoxy and R1, R2 and R3 are each independently methyl or hydrogen. 3. The compound of Claim 2 and the pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic acid addition salts thereof, wherein R1, R2 and R3 are all hydrogen Arl and Ar2 are each independently selected from the group consisting of unsubstituted phenyl or phenyl substituted with one to two identical substituents selected from the group consisting of fluoro, chloro, methyl, or methoxy b is 1 or 2, c is 0 or 1, and d is 0 or 1. 4. The compound of Claim 3 and the pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts thereof, wherein a is 2 or 3. 5. The compound of Claim 4 and the pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic acid addition salts thereof, wherein Arl is selected from the group consisting of phenyl, 4 chlorophenyl, 4 fluorophenyl, 4 methylphenyl, 4 methoxyphenyl Ar2 is selected from the group consisting of phenyl, 2 chlorophenyl, 4 chlorophenyl, 3,4 dichlorophenyl, 2,4 dichlorophenyl, 2 methylphenyl, 4 methylphenyl, 2 ,4 dimethylphenyl, 2 methoxyphenyl, or 4 methoxyphenyl a is 2, b is 1, and c d is 0 or 1. 6. The compound of Claim 5, which is 1 2 2 phenylethyl 4 4 chlorophenyl n butyl imidazole, 2 2 2 chlorophenyl ethyl 4 4 chl orophenyl n buty imidazole or 1 2 2 4 chlorophenyl ethyl 4 4 chlorophenyl n butylJ imidazole, and the pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic acid addition salts thereof. 7. The compound of Claim 5, which is 1 2 4 fluorobenzyl 4 4 chlorophenyl n butyl imidazole, I 2 2 chlorobenzyl 4 4 chlorophenyl n butyl3 imidazole or 1 fr 4 chlorobenzyl 4 4 chlorophenyl n butyl3 imidazole, and the pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic acid addition salts thereof. 8. The compound of Claim 5 which is 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2,4 dichlorobenzyl n butyl imidazole or 1 64 4 chlorophenyl 2 3,4 dichlorobenzyl n butys imidazole, and the pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic acid addition salts thereof. 9. A pharmaceutical contraceptive composition, which comprises a spermicidally effective amount of the compound ofClaim 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic acid addition salt thereof, in admixture with at least one pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. 10. The composition of Claim 9 wherein said composition is formulated for vaginal administration to the female. 11. The composition of Claim 9 wherein said composition is formulated for oral administration to the male. 12. A process for preparing a compound of the formula EMI49.1 and the pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic salts thereof, wherein Arl and Ar2 are each independently optionally substituted phenyl where substituted means that 1, 2, 3, 4 and or 5 hydrogens on the phenyl ring are replaced by halo, alkyl, alkoxy, or trifluoromethyl R1, R2 and R3 are each independently hydrogen or alkyl where alkyl is a branched or unbranched hydrocarbon residue containing 1, 2, 3 or 4 carbons alkyl a is an integer from 1 3 b is an integer from 1 3 c is an integer from 0 2 and d is an integer from 0 2, such that c d equals 0 2 and the pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic salts thereof which process comprises a treating a compound of the formula EMI50.1 wherein Ar11 Ar2, R1, R2, R3, a, b, c, d, are as defined herein and W is a leaving group, with imidazole optionally followed by b converting the resulting free base to a pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic salt. c converting a salt of the compound of Formula I to a free base or d converting a salt of the compound of Formula I to another salt. 13. A process for preparing a compound of the formulaEMI50.2 and the pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic salts thereof wherein Arl and Ar2 are each independently optionally substituted phenyl where substituted means that 1, 2, 3, 4 and or 5 hydrogens on the phenyl ring are replaced by halo, alkyl, alkoxy, or trifluoromethyl R1, R2 and R3 are each independently hydrogen or alkyl where alkyl is a branched or unbranched hydrocarbon residue containing 1, 2, 3 or 4 carbons a is an integer from 1 3 b is an integer from 1 3 c is an integer from 0 2 and d is an integer from 0 2, such that c d equals 0 2 and the pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic salts thereof which process comprises a treating a compound of the formulaEMI51.1 wherein Arl, Ar2, R1, R2, R3, a, b, c, d, are as defined herein, with a halogenating agent or a sulfonyl halide, followed by b treating the resultant with imidazole optionally foiiowed by c converting the resulting free base to a pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic salt. d converting a salt of the compound of Formula I to a free base or e converting a salt of the compound of Formula I to another salt. 14. A process for preparing a compound of the formula EMI52.1 and the pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic salts thereof wherein Arl and Ar2 are each independently optionally substituted phenyl where substituted means that 1, 2, 3, 4 and or 5 hydrogens on the phenyl ring are replaced by halo, alkyl, alkoxy, or trifluoromethyl R1, R2 and R3 are each independently hydrogen or alkyl where alkyl is a branched or unbranched hydrocarbon residue containing 1, 2, 3 or 4 carbons a is an integer from 1 3 b is an integer from 1 3 c is an integer from 0 2 and d is an integer from 0 2, such that c d equals 0 2 and the pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic salts thereof which process comprises a reducing one or more compounds selected from the group consisting of EMI52.2 EMI53.1 wherein Arl, Ar2, R1, R2, a, b, c, and d are as herein defined except that in the compound of formula B, ciO, R4 is Ar1 CH2 a , and R5 is Ar2 CH2 dCR1R2 CH2 c b optionally followed by converting the free base of the compound of Formula I to a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt c converting a salt of the compound of Formula I to a free base or d converting a salt of the compound of Formula I to another salt.

## Description
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This invention concerns certain l substituted imidazoles which are useful as antifungals, uterine relaxants, and, most particularly, as spermicides effective when administered either to male or female mammals. Vast numbers of l substituted imidazole compounds are known. Various members of this group have been described as, for example, antifungals, antibacterials, anticonvulsants, food preservatives, crop disease protecting agents and CNS agents. U.S. Patent 4,247,552, issued January 27, 1981 and incorporated herein by reference discloses l substituted imidazoles which are spermicides. Compounds closest in structure to those of the present invention are disclosed in U.S. 3,991,201, 3,927,017 and 4,115,578 and in Belgian 848,004 and 827,870. In general, these patents describe compounds which are straight chain alkanes with two aryl substituents in addition to the l imidazolyl substituent which relates them to the compounds of the present invention. It has now been found that certain simple or complex branched chain alkanes which are herein described, substituted on the terminal carbon atoms with two optionally substituted phenyl groups and with one l imidazolyl group, each separated from the branch carbon by at least one methylene unit, have surprisingly potent spermicidal activity. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to compounds of the formulaEMI2.1 wherein Arl and Ar2 are each independently optionally substituted phenyl R1, R2 and R3 are each independently hydrogen or alkyl a is an integer from 1 3 b is an integer from 1 3 c is an integer from 0 2 and d is an integer from 0 2, such that c d equals 0 2 and the pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic salts thereof. In two other aspects, the invention concerns contraceptive pharmaceutical compositions containing compounds of formula I as active ingredients, and a method of contraception utilizing the spermicidal properties of said compounds. The invention also relates to a process for preparation of compounds of formula I. DETAILED DESCRIPTIONDefinitions As used herein, alkyl means a branched or unbranched saturated hydrocarbon residue containing 1, 2, 3 or 4 carbons, such as for example, methyl, ethyl, n propyl, i propyl, n butyl, i butyl, or t butyl. Alkoxy means OR, wherein R is alkyl as herein defined Halo means fluoro, chloro or bromo Pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt refers to those salts which qualitatively retain the biological effectiveness and properties of the free bases and which are not biologically or otherwise undesirable, formed with inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, sulfuric acid, nitric acid, phosphoric acid and the like, and organic acids such as acetic acid, propionic acid, glycolic acid, pyruvic acid, oxalic acid, malic acid, malonic acid, succinic acid, maleic acid, fumaric acid, tartaric acid, citric acid, benzoic acid, cinnamic acid, mandelic acid, methanesulfonic acid, ethanesulfonic acid, p toluenesulfonic acid, salicylic acid and the like. Optional or optionally means that the subsequently described event or circumstance may or may not occur, and that the description includes instances where said event or circumstance occurs and instances in which it does not. For example, optionally substituted phenyl means that the phenyl may or may not be substituted see below for substitution definitions and that the description includes both unsubstituted phenyl and phenyl wherein there is substitution optionally followed by converting the free base to the acid addition salt means that said conversion may or may not be carried out in order for the process described to fall within the invention, and the invention includes those processes wherein the free base is converted to the acid addition salt and those processes in which it is not. Substituted phenyl as used herein means that one or more hydrogens of the phenyl ring are replaced by moieties selected from the group consisting of halo see above definition , alkyl see above definition , alkoxy or trifluoromethyl. In the context of the present invention, said replacement may be at any position of the phenyl ring, and 1, 2, 3, 4, and or 5 hydrogens may be so replaced. However if more than three hydrogens are replaced, all substituents must be identical. Spermicide and spermicidal refer to the capacity to render spermatozoa ineffective. This effect may be the result of actual sperm cell death, or less drastically, immobility, cell membrane alteration or other impairment which results in the inability of the sperm cell to effect fertilization.Process And Preparation General Parameters All of the compounds of the invention contain at least one chiral center, i.e., the carbon to which R3 is attached except for the special case in which the two phenyl containing side chains are identical, in which case the following remarks, of course, do not apply . Accordingly, the compounds of the present invention may be prepared in either optically active form, or as a racemic mixture. Unless otherwise specified, the compounds described herein are all in the racemic form.However, the scope of the subject invention herein is not to be considered limited to the racemic form, but to encompass the individual optical isomers of the subject compounds. If desired, racemic intermediates or final products prepared herein may be resolved into their optical antipodes by conventional resolution means known per se, for example, by the separation e.g., fractional crystallization of the diastereomeric compounds formed by reaction of racemic mixtures with optically resolved reactants. Racemic compounds of Formula I and other basic intermediates may be resolved by separation of the di aster eomers formed by reaction with optically active acids. Exemplary of such optically active acids are the optically active forms of camphor l0 sulfonic acid, a bromocamphor M sulfonic acid, camphoric acid, menthoxyacetic acid, tartaric acid, malic acid, diacetyltartaric acid, pyrrolidone 5 carboxylic acid and the like. Resolution of the enantiomers of the compounds of formula II infra may be accomplished by separation of the diastereomeric esters or carbamates formed by reaction with optically active acids or isocyanates.Exemplary of such optically active isocyanates are l a naphthyl ethyl isocyanate, menthyl isocyanate, and l phenylethyl isocyanate. Carboxylic acid intermediates such as those of formula IV, may also be resolved, for example, through formation of and separation of their diastereomeric salts, formed by reaction with optically active amines, or esters formed with optically active alcohols. Typical of such amines and alcohols are, for example, the optically active forms of brucine, dehydroabietylamine, ephedine, a phenethylamine, l l naphthyl ethylamine, and menthol. Under different conditions, the above mentioned amines may be used to form the corresponding amides. The separated pure diastereomeric compounds described above may then be cleaved by standard means to afford the respective optical isomers of the racemic compound subjected to resolution. Compounds of the present invention, or intermediates in the preparations thereof, described hereinbelow, may be isolated and purified by conventional means known in the art, such as fractional crystallization, extraction and solvent removal, high pressure liquid chromatography, column choromatography, thin layer chromatography and the like. The degree of purification required for any intermediate in the preparation sequences will, of course, depend on the nature of contaminants, and the selectivity of the subsequent reagents. The salt products are also isolated by conventional means. For example, the acidified reaction mixture containing the compound of formula I, may be evaporated to dryness, and the salts can be further purified by usual methods.Isolation of such salts is often more convenient, as many of the compounds of the invention, as free bases, are oils. The compounds of formula I and the intermediates described hereinbelow are represented in expanded form everywhere herein for ease of reading. Such representations are not intended to be Fischer projections, and no particular configuration should be inferred from these representations.Process Compounds of formula I are prepared according toReaction Scheme A EMI6.1 REACTION SCHEME A W represents a leaving group, such as, for example, a halide chloro, bromo or iodo or reactive ester, for example a p tolulenesulfonate or methanesulfonate ester . The conversion of II to III is accomplished by treating a compound of formula II with either a halogenating agent, such as, for example, thionyl bromide or N bromosuccinimide triphenylphosphine or with an appropriate sulfonyl halide, for example p toluenesulfonyl chloride, optionally in an inert solvent, such as, for example dichloromethane or tetrahydrofuran THF , preferably THF, in the presence of base, e.g. a tertiary amine, such as, pyridine or triethylamine. The base itself, for example, pyridine, may also be used as solvent. The reaction is carried out at a temperature of about 20 to about 500C preferably 00 250C and over a period of 5 minutes to 24 hours, preferably 30 minutes to overnight.Thereafter, the compound of formula III is converted to the final product of formula I, by treating it with at least one mole of imidazole per mole of III, preferably an excess of 1.5 to 5 moles of imidazole per mole of III. The reaction takes place either in the absence of solvent i.e. above the m.p. of the mixture or in an inert organic solvent such as dimethylformamide DMF acetonitrile, tetrahydrofuran, or dimethylsulfoxide DMSO preferably, DMF, at a temperature between about 0 to 1700C, most preferably from about 500 to 1500C. Alternatively, the reaction may be carried out using a salt of imidazole, for example, an alkali metal salt, preferably a sodium salt, in the same solvents, at a temperature from about 0 to 1500C, preferably from about 200 to about 1100C.Preparation of Compounds of Formula II The compounds of formula II are prepared by one of several reaction schemes, as described hereinbelow. In the representations of said reaction schemes, R4 represents Arl cH2 a R5 represents Ar2 CH2 dCR1R2 CH2 c r R is alkyl, and R3 and W are as herein defined.A. Compounds of Formula II Wherein b 1 The compounds of formula II wherein b is equal to 1 II1 are conveniently prepared by reduction of the corresponding carboxylic acids, which in turn, can be prepared by a number of methods known to those skilled in the art, such as, for example, malonic ester synthesis, alkylation of carboxylic acids or esters, and by the alkylation of 6 keto esters, Meldrums acid, nitriles, or asides, and the like, preferably by malonic ester synthesis, optionally followed by alkylation of the resulting acid or ester. Exemplary of such a process is that shown in Reaction Scheme B EMI8.1 REACTION SCHEME B The sequence of the alkylation steps may, of course, be done in any order, and either R3, R4 or R5 is added first.The required reaction conditions for steps 1 to 3 are well known to those skilled in the art. The conversion of the acid of formula 1V1 to the acid of formula IV1 may be carried out by alkylating IV1 either as a dianion e.g. the dilithium derivative or as as an ester anion e.g. the t butyl ester derivative .This is then followed by hydrolysis to give a compoundIV1, by known methods. The compound of formula IV1 or TV, is then reduced to the corresponding compound of formula Ill using an appropriate reducing agent, such as, for example, borane tetrahydrofuran complex or lithium aluminum hydride. In addition certain compounds of formula II may be obtained by reduction, e.g. with sodium borohydrate, of an aldehyde of the formulaEMI9.1 wherein R3, R4 and R5 are as herein defined. Aldehydes of formula V may be prepared by methods known in the art, e.g. by alkylation of a simpler aldehyde or aldehyde derivative, especially the corresponding enamine.B. Compounds of Formula II Wherein b is Greater than 1 Compounds of formula II wherein b is greater than 1, may be prepared by homologation of compounds of formulaII1 or from their more highly oxidized cogeners.Exemplary of such homologations are the sequences of reactions shown in Reaction Schemes C and D. Reaction Scheme C, as shown below, results in a compound of formula II wherein b 3 II3 EMI10.1 REACTION SCHEME C In Reaction Scheme C, the compound of formula II1 is converted to its halide or sulfonate of formula IIIlusing conditions previously described. The compound of formulaIII1 is then converted to the corresponding malonic ester and then to the carboxylic acid of formula IV3 in a manner analogous to that described in Reaction Scheme B for the formation of IV1 Alternatively the acid of formula IV3 is prepared from the aldehyde of formula V, which can be prepared by oxidation of Ill by well known methods, for example, oxidation with DMSO oxalyl chloride. The aldehyde of formula V is then condensed to give an olefin of formulaVI in a Knoevenagel reaction. Reduction by convential means gives the corresponding saturated diester, which is then converted to the acid of formula IV3. Reaction Scheme D, results in a compound of formula II wherein b 2 II2 , or may be repeated to generate a compound of formula II wherein b 3 II3 EMI11.1 REACTION SCHEME DThe conditions and reagents for steps 1 and 4 ofReaction Scheme D have been described previously herein.Steps 2 and 3 are conventional in the art. Step 2 is conveniently done using sodium cyanide in DMSO or DMF the hydrolysis of step 3 is conventionally carried out in the presence of a strong inorganic aqueous acid, such as, for example, sulfuric acid. Reaction Scheme D is exemplary of one carbon homologation methods known to those skilled in the art.Other such methods include, for example the Arndt EistertSynthesis and Wolff Rearrangement which convert the corresponding acids of formula IV1 to the homologous acids of formula IV2. Again, the resulting acid is reduced to II2 which can, of course, then be resubjected to Reaction Scheme D to yield the corresponding compound of formula II3.C. Particular Methods for Compounds of Formula II2 Reaction Schemes E and F represent useful methods for preparing certain compounds of formula II2 EMI12.1 REACTION SCHEME E The starting material, R4R5C o is prepared by known methods, for example by alkylation of a dithiane derivative followed by hydrolysis. However, most such starting materials are either commercially available, or known in the art, or both. The conversion to the vinyl carbinol in step 1 is effected by known methods, for example, by reaction with vinyl lithium or vinyl magnesium chloride. Subsequent replacement of hydroxy with R3 is accomplished by reaction with methyl lithium in the presence of a palladium complex according to the method described in J. Amer. Chem.Soc. 100 6445 1978 . Alternatively the olefin prepared in step 2 may be prepared by Wittig olefination of the aldehyde, V, in a conventional procedure. Standard techniques of hydroboration and oxidation yield the product compound of formula II2. Reaction Scheme F shows another method for the preparation of certain alcohols of formula II2. EMI13.1 REACTION SCHEME F Steps la, ib and lc are well known in the art. For example, using condensation with cyanoacetic ester or malononitrile in la or 1b respectively constitute practical methods step ic is by Wittig, Horner Emmons olefination using a phosphorane or phosphonate anion or using a trialkylsilylacetic ester derivative. To form the corresponding carboxylic acids of formula IV2 wherein R3 is hydrogen, hydrogenation of the double bond is effected in steps 2a, 2b or 2c by conventional means,followed by hydrolysis and pyrolysis as appropriate. Alternatively, if R3 is alkyl, appropriate reagents such as, for example, dialkyl copper lithium reagent or alkyl Grignard reagent followed by hydrolysis and pyrolysis may be used. See, for example, Tetrahedron Letters, 1967 2393 ibid 1964 1763. Subsequent hydrogenation of the compound of formula rv2 to the corresponding alcohol of formula II2 has previously been described.Alternative Overall Synthesis Reaction Scheme G offers a method for embellishment of a preformed imidazole ketone with an additional substituent at the incipient branch point, for those compounds wherein R3 is equal to H.EMI14.1 REACTION SCHEME G M, herein, represents a substituent metal ion or metal salt ion, for example, Li or MgBr. Unsaturated analogs of I represents one or more of the compounds of the formula EMI15.1 wherein Arl Ar2, R1, R2, R4, R5, a, b, c, and d are as herein defined except that in the compound of formula B, c O. The starting imidazole ketones are prepared according to the methods described in U.S. 4,078,071. The conversion to the alcohol in step 1 is effected with an arylalkyllithium or arylalkyl magnesium bromide reagent wherein the arylalkyl group is theR5 or R4 moiety desired to be added. It is understood that the reagents in step 1 are interchangable, i.e., the imidazole ketone may be substituted with R5 and the alkyl metal compound contain the alkyl group repiresented by R4 rather than the exact sequence shown above. Conditions and reagents for step 2 of Reaction Scheme G have been hereinbefore described. The halide or sulfonate formed in step 2 can be directly reduced using appropriate reagents to the compound of formula I wherein R3 is equal to hydrogen.Alternatively a preliminary elimination of either the hydroxyl group of the alcohol or the leaving group of the halide or sulfonate and hydrogen from an adjacent carbon either from CH2 b, R4, or R5, results in one or more isomeric elimination products which can subsequently be reduced by hydrogen with appropriate catalysts, to the compounds of formula I, again wherein R3 is equal to hydrogen. This method is most useful for those compounds wherein the aryl groups are not substituted by halo. An alternative sequence utilizing the same imidazole ketone starting materials is Wittig olefination, followed by reduction. Again, only those compounds of formula I wherein R3 is hydrogen are obtained by this method. In both of the above sequences Reaction Scheme G and the Wittig olefination of the previous paragraph the final step is the hydrogenation of a double bond. To carry out this step, the unsaturated analog of the compound of formula I or mixture as indicated above is dissolved in an inert solvent such as methanol, ethanol, acetone, acetic acid and the like, preferably ethanol containing acetic acid, and about 1 to 20 by weight, preferably about 10 by weight of hydrogenation catalyst, such as 10 palladium or charcoal or platinum oxide, preferably 10 palladium or charcoal, is added. The mixture is treated with an excess of hydrogen at ambient pressure, at about 100C 300C, preferably room temperature, until the uptake of hydrogen ceases. The resulting compound of formula I is then isolated by conventional means.Preferred Embodiments Each of the preferred embodiments disclosed hereinbelow includes both the free base form and the pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts. A set of preferred embodiments of the compounds of the invention is that wherein R1, R2 and R3 are each independently methyl or hydrogen and each phenyl ring ofArl and Ar2 is independently unsubstituted or substituted with substituents selected from the group consisting of halo, alkyl and methoxy. When more than three substituents are present in the ring, it is preferred that these are chloro or methyl. A more preferred set of embodiments is that whereinR1, R2 and R3 are all hydrogen, and each phenyl ring is independently either not substituted, or substituted with one to two substituents selected from the group consisting of fluoro, chloro, methyl or methoxy b is 1 or 2, c is 0 or 1, and d is 0 or 1. Especially preferred within this class are those compounds wherein a 2 or 3. Still more preferred are those embodiments wherein Arl is selected from the group consisting of phenyl, 4 chlorophenyl, 4 fluorophenyl, 4 methylphenyl, 4 methoxyphenyl Ar2 is selected from the group consisting of phenyl, 2 chlorophenyl, 4 chlorophenyl, 2,4 dichlorophenyl, 2 methylphenyl, 4 methylphenyl, 2,4 dimethylphenyl, 2 methoxyphenyl, or 4 methoxyphenyl a is 2, b is 1, and c d is 1 or 0. A most preferred set of embodiments is that wherein the compound of formula I is selected from the group consisting of l 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 phenylethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 4 fluorobenzyl n butyl imidazole l 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 chlorobenzyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 2 chlorophenyl ethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 4 chlorophenyl ethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 4 chlorobenzyl n butyll imidazole 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2, 4 dichlorobenzyl n butyli imidazole 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 3. 4 dichlorobenzyl n butyl imidazole.Utility and Administration The compounds of formula I herein and the pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic acid addition salts thereof are primarily useful as spermicides, either intravaginally administered to the female mammal or orally or parenterally administered to the male mammal. Compositions appropriate for such uses are prepared by methods and contain ingredients which are well known in the art. A generally recognized compendium of such methods and ingredients is Remington s PharmaceuticalSciences by E. W. Martin, Mark Publ. Co., 15th Ed., 1975 . For intravaginal administration suitable formulations are, for example creams, gels, spray foams, suppositories and the like, as well as slow release materials. Each composition contains an effective amount of active ingredient plus one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients. Such excipients are, for example, starch, glucose, lactose, talc, cellulose and the like for solid formulations polyethylene glycols, modified vegetable oils, mineral oil, or polyalkylene glycols and the like for semi solid formulations and water, alcohols, glycerol, lanolin, mineral oil and the like for liquid or semi liquid compositions. The compositions may contain between about 0.01 and 10.0 percent by weight of the active ingredient, preferably between 0.1 and 1.0 , and may, if desired, contain other active ingredients.Such compositions may also be used in conjunction with barrier methods such as, e.g., diaphragms or condoms. In the practice of the method of contraception herein, the above formulations are administered to the female before coitus, within a period of about 12 hours prior thereto. The preferred dosage range of active ingredient is from about 1 mg to 20 mg per vaginal administration for an adult human. For smaller mammals the amount would be correspondingly smaller. Compositions for administration to the male are preferably directed to oral administration, although parenteral administration is also biologically possible.Such compositions will contain a spermicidal amount of active ingredient with a non toxic, pharmaceutically effective carrier. For said oral administration solid dosage forms such as tablets, capsules and powders may contain such excipients as, for example, lactose, starch, or cellulose. In the practice of the method of contraception herein, a dose in the range of between about 0.1 and 10 mg active ingredient per kg will be administered to the male prior to coitus, preferably at least 24 hours before coitus, and more preferably daily for 3 7 days prior to coitus. The compounds of the present invention also exhibit other properties antifungal antibacterial activities, and antithromboxane and uterine relaxant capabilities. The following examples are illustrative of the methods and compositions of the present invention. They should not be construed as limitative thereof in any manner. PREPARATION 1 Diethyl 2 2 4 cblorophenyl ethyl malonate A. Diethyl malonate 32 g was added to a suspension of sodium hydride 10.56 g of a 50 dispersion in mineral oil in 200 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran under nitrogen at a rate such as to maintain gentle reflux. The mixture was then heated under reflux for another hour and then treated with 2 4 chlorophenyl 1 bromoethane 48.3 g and potassium iodide 10 g , under reflux for two days with stirring. The reaction mixture was poured into 400 ml ice water and extracted with 2 x 400 ml of ethyl acetate. The combined extracts were dried MgSO4 , evaporated and the residue chromatographed on silica gel eluting with 30 dichloromethane hexane to give 38 g of pure diethyl 2 2 4 chlorophenyl ethyllmalonate as an oil.B. Similarly, substituting into the procedure of Part A hereinabove, for 2 4 chlorophenyl l bromoethane, the following 2 phenyl 1 bromoethane 3 2 chlorophenyl 1 br omopropane 3 2,4 dichlorophenyl 1 bromopropane 4 fluorobenzyl bromide 2 4 methylphenyl 1 bromoethane 2 4 fluorophenyl 1 bromoethane or 3 3 chlorophenyl 1 bromopropane one obtains 1. diethyl 2 2 phenylethyl malonate 2. diethyl 3 3 2 chlorophenyl propyl malonate 3. diethyl 2 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl propyI malonate 4. diethyl 2 4 fluorobenzyl malonate 5. diethyl 2 2 4 methylphenyl ethyl malonate 6. diethyl 2 2 4 fluorophenyl ethyl malonate 7. diethyl 2 3 3 chlorophenyl propyl malonate. PREPARATION 2 Diethyl 2 2 4 chlorophenyl ethyll 2 2 phenylethyl malonateA. Diethyl 2 2 4 chlorophenyl ethyl malonate 3.24 g was added dropwise to a stirred suspension of sodium hydride 0.62 g of a 50 dispersion in mineral oil in 20 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran under nitrogen. After stirring for another hour at about 500C, 2 phenethylbromide 2.4 g was added and the mixture heated overnight under reflux under nitrogen. The reaction mixture was then poured into 250 ml of ice water, extracted with a total of 350 ml of ethyl acetate and the extracts dried MgSO4 and evaporated to give crude diethyl 2 2 4 chlorophenyl ethyl 2 2 phenylethyl malonate as a yellow oil 5.4 g .B. Similarly, substituting into the procedure of Part A hereinabove, for diethyl 2 2 4 chlorophenyl ethyl malonate, each of the seven malonate derivatives set forth in part B of Preparation 1, with each correspondingly numbered bromide in the following 1. 3 4 methylphenyl propyl bromide 2. 2 4 methoxyphenyl ethyl bromide 3. 3 3 chlorophenyl propyl bromide 4. 4 fluorobenzyl bromide 5. 1 2,4 dimethylphenyl 1 bromoethane 6. 2 methyl 2 4 methoxyphenyl l bromobutane 7. 2 methyl l 2 chlorobenzyl 2 bromobutane one obtains, respectively, 1. diethyl 2 2 phenylethyl 2 3 4 methylphenyl propyl malonate 2. diethyl 2 3 2 chlorophenyl propyl 2 2 4 methoxyphenyl ethyl malonate 3. diethyl 2 3 2,4 dichlorophenyl propyl 2 3 3 chlorophenyl propyl malonate 4. diethyl 2 4 fluorobenzyl 2 4 fluorobenzyl malonate 5. diethyl 2 2 4 methylphenyl ethyl 2 1 2,4 dimethylphenyl ethyl malonate 6. diethyl 2 2 4 fluorophenyl ethyl 2 2 4 methoxy phenyl 2 methylbutyl malonate 7. diethyl 2 3 3 chlorophenyl propyl 2 1 2 chloro benzyl l methylpropyl malonate. PREPARATION 3 4 4 chlorophenvl 2 2 phenylethyl butan l ol A. 1 The ester prepared in Part A of Preparation 2 5.4 g was heated under reflux overnight with stirring with a mixture of potassium hydroxide 25 g and methanol 25 ml in water 25 ml . After evaporation of most of the methanol under reduced pressure, the mixture was poured into 200 ml of water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The aqueous phase was then acidified with ice cold dilute hydrochloric acid, extracted twice with ethyl acetate, and the extracts dried MgSO4 and evaporated.The resulting pink solid 2.5 g , was decarboxylated by heating under nitrogen at 1750C overnight, to give 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 phenylethyl butyric acid used directly in the next step. 2 The acid from above was dissolved in 20 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran and treated dropwise with stirring at room temperature with 10.65 ml of 1.06 M borane tetrahydrofuran solution. After two hours, the yellow solution was poured into ice water, basified with aqueous potassium carbonate and the mixture extracted with ethyl acetate 2 x 100 ml . The combined extracts were dried MgS04 and evaporated to give 2.39 g of the title compound. B. Similarly, substituting into the procedure of Part A hereinabove, for diethyl 2 2 4 chlorophenyl ethyl 2 2 phenylethyl malonate the malonate diesters listed in part B of preparation 2, one obtains, respectively 1. 4 phenyl 2 3 4 methylphenyl propyl butan 1 ol 2. 5 2 chlorophenyl 2 2 4 methoxyphenyl ethyl pentan l ol 3. 5 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 3 3 chlorophenyl propyl pentan l ol 4. 3 4 fluorophenyl 2 4 fluorobenzyl propan l ol 5. 4 4 methylphenyl 2 1 2,4 dimethylphenyl ethyl butan l ol 6. 4 4 fluorophenyl 2 2 4 methoxyphenyl 2 methyl butyl butan l ol 7. 5 3 chlorophenyl 2 1 2 chlorobenzyl 1 methyl propyl pentan l ol. PREPARATION 4 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 phenylethyl 2 ethyl n butan l ol A. The procedure is based on the method disclosed in J. Org. Chem., 37, 451 1972 . A mixture of 20 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran and diisopropylamine 2.25g is purged with nitrogen and cooled to 200C, whereupon a 1.5 M solution of n butyllithium in hexane 14.6 ml is added with stirring such that the temperature does not exceed OOC. A solution of 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 phenylethyl butyric acid as prepared in Part A 1 of Preparation 3 3.02g in a few ml of dry tetrahydrofuran is then added, maintaining the temperature below OOC, and the resulting mixture stirred at 500C for 2 hours, and cooled again to 0 C. Ethyl bromide 1.09g is then added rapidly to the mixture and the reaction allowed to come to room temperature for 2 hours, before evaporation of the solvent. The residue is acidified with ice cold 108 hydrochloric acid and the product extracted twice with ether. The combined extracts are washed with dilute hydrochloric acid, water, then dried MgSO4 and evaporated to give 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2phenylethyl 2 ethylbutyric acid which was reduced without further purification to the title compound using the procedure of Part A of Preparation 3.B. Similarly, substituting into the procedure of Part A hereinabove, for ethyl bromide n butyl bromide, methyl iodide, or i propyl bromide, one obtains the corresponding 2 n butyl , 2 methyl and 2 i propyl 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 phenylethyl butan 1 ols. PREPARATION 5 Homologation of 4 Chlorophenyl 2 2 phenylethyl n butyl methanesulfonateA. 4 Chlorophenyl 2 2 phenylethyl n butyl methanesulfonate 2.3g See Example 1, Part A in a few ml of dimethyl formamide DMF is added to a cooled stirred suspension of anhydrous sodium cyanide 0.46g in 5 ml of dry DMF. The mixture is heated overnight at 800C poured into water 100 ml and the product extracted with ether. The combined extracts are washed well with water, dried MgSO4 and evaporated to give 5 4 chlorophenyl 3 2 phenylethyl pentane nitrile, used directly in the next step. 5 4 Chlorophenyl 3 2 phenylethyl pentane nitrile 1.72g is heated under reflux overnight in 10 ml of 50 aqueous sulfuric acid. The cooled mixture is then poured into water 100 ml and extracted twice with ether. The etheral extracts are washed with water, dried MgSO4 and evaporated to give 5 4 chlorophenyl 3 2 phenylethyl pentanoic acid, which is then reduced according to the procedure of Preparation 3, Part A 2 to give 5 4 chlorophenyl 3 2 phenylethyl n pentan l o1. B. Similarily, using the procedure of Part A of thisPreparation, but substituting for 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 phenylethyl n butyl methanesulfonate the methanesulfonates of the alcohols listed in Preparation 3, Part B, one obtains 1. 5 phenyl 3 3 4 methylphenyl propyl pentan l ol 2. 6 2 chlorophenyl 3 2 4 methoxyphenyl ethyl hexan l ol 3. 6 2,4 dichlorophenyl 3 3 3 chlorophenyl propyl hexan l ol 4. 4 4 fluorophenyl 3 4 fluorobenzyl butan l ol 5. 5 4 methylphenyl 3 1 2,4 dimethylphenyl ethyl pentan l ol 6. 5 4 fluorophenyl 3 2 4 methoxyphenyl 2 methylbutyl pentan l ol 7. 6 3 chlorophenyl 3 l 2 chlorobenzyl l methylpropyl hexan l ol. EXAMPLE 1 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 phenylethyl n butyl imidazole A. l 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 phenylethyl butan l o1 in 10 ml of dry pyridine at 0 was treated dropwise with stirring with 0.87 ml of methanesulfonyl chloride, and stirring continued for a further hour at OOC, and two hours at room temperature. The resulting mixture was poured into 100 ml of cold dilute hydrochloric acid and extracted with ethyl acetate 150 ml total .The extracts were washed with aqueous potassium carbonate solution, dried MgSO4 and evaporated to give 2.54 g of 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 .phenylethyl n butyl methanesulfonate, used directly in the following A mixture of the above crude mesylate 2.54 g and imidazole 3.4 g in 10 ml of dry DMF was stirred at 1450C under nitrogen overnight. The solution was then poured into 250 ml of water, and the product extracted with ethyl acetate. The extracts were washed four times with water, dried MgSO4 and evaporated. The residue was chromatographed on silica gel, eluting with 10 methanol in dichloromethane to give 1.53 g of pure title compound as an oil. The above free base was dissolved in ether and treated dropwise with nitric acid d 1.42 until precipitation was complete. The precipitate was collected and recrystallized from ethyl acetate to give 1.17 g of l 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 phenylethyl n butyl imidazole nitrate as a white solid, m.p. 95 970C. B. Similarly, substituting into the procedure of Part A hereinabove, for 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 phenylethyl butan l ol, the alcohols listed in part B of Preparation 3 one obtains 1. 1 4 phenyl 2 3 4 methylphenyl propyl n butyl imidazole 2. 1 5 2 chlorophenyl 2 2 4 methoxyphenyl ethyl n pentyl imidazole 3. 1 5 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 3 3 chlorophenyl propyl n pentyl imidazole 4. 1 3 4 fluorophenyl 2 4 fluorobenzyl n propyl imidazole 5. 1 4 4 methylphenyl 2 1 2,4 dimethylphenyl ethyl n butyl imidazole 6. l 4 4 fluoropbenyl 2 2 4 methoxyphenyl 2 methyl butyl n butyl imidazole 7. l 5 3 chlorophenyl 2 1 2 chlorobenzyl l methyl propyl n pentyl imidazole.C. Similarly, substituting into the procedure of Part A hereinabove, for 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 phenylethyl butan l ol, 2 ethyl 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 phenylethyl butan l ol 2 n butyl 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 phenylethyl butan l ol 2 methyl 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 phenylethyl butan l ol and 2 i propyl 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 phenylethyl butan l ol one obtains the corresponding 1 2 ethyl 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 phenylethyl nbutyl imidazole 1 2 n butyl 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 phenylethyl nbutyl imidazole 1 2 methyl 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 phenylethyl nbutyl imidazole and 1 2 i propyl 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 phenylethyl nbutyl imidazole. EXAMPLE 2 Conversion of 1 5 4 methylpbenyl 3 oxo n pentylZimidazole to l 5 4 methylphenyl 3 benzyl n pentyl imidazole A. 2.3 g 1 5 4 methylphenyl 3 oxo n pentyl imidazole is dissolved in 20 ml dry THF, and added dropwise with stirring under nitrogen to an ice cooled solution of benzylmagnesium chloride from benzyl chloride 1.58g and magnesium 0.30g in 15 ml of tetrahydrofuran. The mixture is allowed to come to room temperature overnight and quenched by the addition of saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution. After addition of water, the product is extracted twice with ethyl acetate and the combined extracts washed, dried MgSO4 and evaporated to give 1 5 4 methylphenyl 3benzyl 3 hydroxy n pentyl imidazole.If necessary, purification is effected by chromatography on silica gel, eluting with 5 methanol in methylenechloride.B. t 5 4 methylphenyl 3 benzyl 3 hydroxy n pentyl imidazole 1.5g in 15 ml of pyridine is treated at OOC with stirring with 3 ml of thionyl chloride. The mixture is stirred for a further four hours at OOC and allowed to come to room temperature overnight. The pyridine was evaporated in vacuo and the residue treated with dilute aqueous potassium carbonate and extracted with ether.The ether extracts were washed with water, dried MgSO4 and evaporated to give 1 3 2 4 methylphenyl ethyl 4 phenylprop 3 enyl imidazole and its isomers.C. A solution of 1 3 2 4 methylphenyl ethyl 4 phenyl prop3 enyl imidazole and isomers 1.0g in ethanol 20 ml is hydrogenated at ambient pressure and temperature over a 5 palladium on charcoal catalyst 100 mg . It may be necessary to pretreat with the catalyst to remove catalyst poisons. After the uptake of hydrogen ceases, the solution is filtered and evaporated to dryness to give 1 5 4 methylphenyl 3 benzyl n pentyl imidazole as an oil. This oil is taken up in ether and treated dropwise with oxalic acid in ether until precipitation is complete. The solid is collected and recrystalized from ethyl acetate to give the oxalate salt. D. Alternative Procedure A solution of diethyl 2,4 dimethylbenzylphosphonate 3.07g in 50 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran at 780C is treated with stirring under nitrogen with 1.6 m n butyllithium in hexane 7.25 ml . After ten minutes at this temperature, l 4 phenyl 2 oxo n butyllimidazole. 1.71 g in 10 ml of tetrahydrofuran is added dropwise and the mixture allowed to come slowly to room temperature overnight. After an additional six hours, under reflux, the solvent was evaporated, water added, and the product extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The combined extracts are washed, dried MgSO4 and evaporated, and the residue chromatographed on silica gel eluting with 6 methanol in methylene chloride to give l 2 2 phenylethyl 3 2,4 dimethylphenyl prop 2 enyl imidazole. This is hydrogenated as in paragragh C hereinabove to give 1 4 phenyl 2 2,4 dimethylbenzyl n butyll imidazole.E. Similarily, substituting into the procedure of PartA, B, C or D hereinabove, for 1 5 4 chlorophenyl 3oxo n pentyl imidazole, 1 5 2,4 dichlorophenyl 3 oxo n pentyl imidazole 1 5 4 fluorophenyl 3 oxo n pentyl imidazole 1 5 3 chlorophenyl 3 oxo n pentyl imidazol 1 6 4 dichlorophenyl 4 oxo n hexyl imidazole 1 6 2,4 dichlorophenyl 4 oxo n hexyl imidazole 1 6 4 fluorophenyl 4 oxo n hexyl imidazole 1 16 3 chlorophenyl 4 oxo n hexyl imidazole and one obtains respectively, 1 5 2, 4 dichlorophenyl 3 3 4 methylphenyl propyl n pentyl imidazole 1 5 4 fluorophenyl 3 3 4 methylphenyl propyl n pentyl imidazole 1 5 3 chlorophenyl 3 3 4 methylphenyl propyl n pentyl imidazole 1 6 4 chlorophenyl 4 3 4 methylphenyl propyl n hexyl imidazole 1 6 2, 4 dichlorophenyl 4 3 4 methylphenyl propyl n hexyl imidazole l 6 4 fluorophenyl 4 3 4 methylphenyl propyl nhexyl imidazole and 1 6 3 chlorophenyl 4 3 4 methylphenyl propyl n hexyl imidazole. Following the procedures outlined in Example 1 or 2 herein, the following compounds are prepared 1 4 phenyl 2 benzyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 phenyl 2 2 chlorobenzyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 phenyl 2 4 chlorobenzyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 phenyl 2 2 methylbenzyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 phenyl 2 4 methylbenzyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 phenyl 2 2 phenylethyl n butyllimidazole 1 4 phenyl 2 2 2 chlorophenyl ethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 phenyl 2 2 4 chlorophenyl ethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 phenyl 2 2 2 methylphenyl ethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 phenyl 2 2 4 methylphenyl ethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 benzyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 chlorobenzyl n butyl imidazole, m.p. 112 113.50C as nitrate 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 4 fluorobenzyl n butyl imidazole, m.p. 123 124.50C as nitrate 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 4 chlorobenzyl n butyl imidazole, m.p. 123 125.50C as nitrates 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 methylbenzyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 4 methylbenzyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 phenylethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 2 chlorophenyl ethyl nbutyl imidazole, m.p. 130.5 1330C as nitrate 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 4 chlorophenyl ethyl nbutyl imidazole, m.p. 132.5 1350 as nitrate l 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 2 methylphenyl ethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 4 methylphenyl ethyl nbutyl imidazole 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2,4 dichlorobenzyl n butyl imidazole, m.p. 119.5 1220C as nitrate 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 3,4 dichlorobenzyl n butyl imidazole, m.p. 133 134.50C as nitrate 1 4 4 methylphenyl 2 benzyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 4 methylphenyl 2 2 chlorobenzyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 4 methylphenyl 2 4 chlorobenzyl n butyl imidazole l 4 4 methylphenyl 2 2 methylbenzyl n butyl imidazole l 4 4 methylphenyl 2 4 methylbenzyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 4 methylphenyl 2 2 phenylethyl n butyl imidazole l 4 4 methylphenyl 2 2 2 chlorophenyl ethyl n butyl imidazole l 4 4 methylphenyl 2 2 4 chlorophenyl ethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 4 methylphenyl 2 2 2 methylphenyl ethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 4 methylphenyl 2 2 4 methylphenyl ethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 4 methoxyphenyl 2 benzyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 4 methoxyphenyl 2 2 chlorobenzyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 4 methoxyphenyl 2 4 chlorobenzyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 4 methoxyphenyl 2 2 methylbenzyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 4 methoxyphenyl 2 4 methylbenzyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 4 methoxyphenyl 2 2 phenylethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 4 methoxyphenyl 2 2 2 chlorophenyl ethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 4 methoxyphenyl 2 2 4 chlorophenyl ethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 4 methoxyphenyl 2 2 2 methylphenyl ethyl nbutyl imidazole l 4 4 methoxyphenyl 2 2 4 methylphenyl ethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 2, 4 dichlorophenyl 2 benzyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 2 chlorobenzyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 4 chlorobenzyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 2 methylbenzyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 4 methylbenzyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 2 phenylethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 2,4 dichlorophenyl 242 2 chlorophenyl ethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 2 4 chlorophenyl ethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 2 2 methylphenyl ethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 2 4 methylphenyl ethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 2,4 dimethylphenyl 2 benzyl n butyl imidazole l 4 2,4 dimethylphenyl 2 2 chlorobenzyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 2,4 dimethylphenyl 2 4 chlorobenzyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 2,4 dimethylphenyl 2 2 methylbenzyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 2,4 dimethylphenyl 2 4 methylbenzyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 2,4 dimethylphenyl 2 2 phenylethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 2,4 dimethylphenyl 2 2 2 chlorophenyl ethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 2,4 dimethylphenyl 2 2 4 chlorophenyl ethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 2,4 dimethylphenyl 2 2 2 methylphenyl ethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 2,4 dimethylphenyl 2 2 4 methylphenyl ethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 l phenylethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 phenyl 2 1 phenylethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 1 2 chlorophenyl ethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 phenyl 2 1 2 chlorophenyl ethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 1 4 chlorophenyl ethyl n bbtyl imidazole 1 4 phenyl 2 1 4 chlorophenyl ethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 1 2 methylphenyl ethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 phenyl 2 1 2 methylphenyl ethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 1 4 methylphenyl ethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 phenyl 2 1 4 methylphenyl ethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 1 phenyl 1 methylethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 phenyl 2 1 phenyl 1 methylethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 methyl 2 2 2 chlorophenyl ethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 methyl 2 2 phenylethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 methyl 2 2 chlorobenzyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 methyl 2 benzyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 methyl 2 4 chlorobenzyl nbutyl imidazole 1 4 phenyl 2 methyl 2 2 2 chlorophenyl ethyl nbutyl imidazole 1 4 phenyl 2 methyl 2 2 phenylethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 phenyl 2 methyl 2 2 chlorobenzyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 phenyl 2 methyl 2 benzyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 phenyl 2 methyl 2 4 chlorobenzyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 phenyl 2 n butyl 2 2 phenylethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 phenyl 2 n butyl 2 2 4 fluorophenyl ethyl n butyl imidazole 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 n butyl 2 2 4 methoxyphenyl ethyl n butyl imidazole 1 5 phenyl 2 benzyl n pentyl imidazole 1 5 phenyl 2 2 chlorobenzyl n pentyllimidazole 1 15 phenyl 2 4 chlorobenzyl n pentyl imidazole 1 5 phenyl 2 2 methylbenzyl n pentyl imidazole 1 5 phenyl 2 2 phenylethyl n pentyl imidazole 1 5 phenyl 2 2 2 chlorophenyl ethyl n pentyl imidazole 1 5 4 chlorophenyl 2 benzyl n pentyl imidazole 1 5 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 chlorobenzyl n pentyl imidazole 1 5 4 chlorophenyl 2 4 chlorobenzyl n pentyl imidazole 1 5 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 methylbenzyl n pentyl imidazole 1 5 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 phenylethyl n pentyl imidazole 1 5 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 2 chlorophenyl ethyl n pentyl imidazole 1 5 phenyl 2 methyl 2 3 phenylpropyl n pentyl imidazole 1 5 4 fluorophenyl 2 methyl 2 3 4 fluorophenyl propyl n pentyl imidazole 1 3 phenyl 2 benzyl n propyl imidazole 1 13 phenyl 2 2 chlorobenzyl n propyl imidazole 1 3 4 chlorophenyl 2 benzyl n propyl imidazole 1 3 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 chlorobenzyl n propyl imidazole 1 3 2 chlorophenyl 2 benzyl n propyl imidazole 1 3 2 chlorophenyl 2 2 chlorobenzyl n propyl imidazole 1 3 4 methylphenyl 2 benzyl n propyl imidazole, 1 3 4 methylphenyl 2 2 chlorobenzyl n propyl imidazole 1 3 4 methoxyphenyl 2 benzyl n propyl imidazole 1 3 4 methoxyphenyl 2 2 chlorobenzyl n propyl imidazole 1 3 4 fluorophenyl 2 benzyl n propyl imidazole 1 3 4 fluorophenyl 2 2 chlorobenzyl n propyl imidazole 1 3 4 chlorophenyl 2 4 chlorobenzyl n propyl imidazole 1 3 4 chlorophenyl 2 methyl 2 4 chlorobenzyl n propyl imidazole 1 3 4 phenyl 2 n butyl 2 benzyl n propyl imidazole 1 5 phenyl 3 benzyl n pentyl imidazole 1 5 phenyl 3 2 chlorobenzyl n pentyl imidazole 1 5 phenyl 3 4 chlorobenzyl n pentyl imidazole 1 5 phenyl 3 2 phenylethyl n pentyl imidazole 1 5 phenyl 3 2 2 chlorophenyl ethyl n pentyl imidazole 1 5 phenyl 3 2 4 chlorophenyl ethyl n pentyl imidazole 1 5 4 chlorophenyl 3 benzyl n pentyl imidazole 1 5 4 chlorophenyl 3 2 chlorobenzyl n pentyl imidazole 1 5 4 chlorophenyl 3 4 chlorobenzyl n pentyl imidazole 1 5 4 chlorophenyl 3 2 phenylethyl n pentyl imidazole 1 4 chlorophenyl 3 2 2 chlorophenyl ethyl n pentyl imidazole 1 5 4 chlorophenyl 3 2 4 chlorophenyl ethyl npentyl imidazole 1 5 2 chlorophenyl 3 benzyl n pentyl imidazole 1 5 2 chlorophenyl 3 2 chlorobenzyl n pentyl imidazole 1 5 2 chlorophenyl 3 4 chlorobenzyl n pentyl imidazole l 5 2 chlorophenyl 3 2 phenylethyl n pentyl imidazole 1 5 2 chlorophenyl 3 2 2 chlorophenyl ethyl n pentyli imidazole 1 5 2 chlorophenyl 3 2 4 chlorophenyl ethyl npentyl imidazole 1 5 phenyl 3 methyl 3 2 phenylethyl n pentyli imidazole 1 5 phenyl 3 methyl 3 2 2 chlorophenyl ethyl n pentyl imidazole 1 5 4 chlorophenyl 3 methyl 3 2 phenylethyl n pentyl imidazole 1 5 4 chlorophenyl 3 methyl 3 2 2 chlorophenyl ethyl n pentyl imidazole 1 6 phenyl 3 benzyl n hexyl imidazole l 6 phenyl 3 2 phenylethyl n hexyl imidazole 1 6 phenyl 3 2 chlorobenzyl n hexyllimidazole 1 6 4 chlorophenyl 3 2 phenylethyl n hexyl imidazole 1 6 4 chlorophenyl 3 2 4 chlorophenyl ethyl nhexyl imidazole 1 7 4 chlorophenyl 4 2 chlorobenzyl n heptyl imidazole 1 7 4 chlorophenyl 4 4 chlorobenzyl n heptyl imidazole 1 7 4 chlorophenyl 4 2 phenylethyl n heptyl imidazole 1 7 4 chlorophenyl 4 2 2 chlorophenyl ethyl nheptyl imidazole. EXAMPLE 3 A. 1.0g of 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 phenylethyl n butyl3imidazole is dissolved in ether, and nitric acid added dropwise until precipitation is complete. The resulting nitrate is then collected and recrystallized from ethyl acetate. B. In a similar manner, all compounds ofFormula I in free base form may be converted to the acid addition salts by treatment with the appropriate acid, for example, hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, sulfuric acid, nitric acid, phosphoric acid, acetic acid, propionic acid, glycolic acid, pyruvic acid, oxalic acid, malonic acid, succinic acid, malic acid, maleic acid, fumaric acid, tartaric acid, citric acid, benzoic acid, cinnamic acid, mandelic acid, methanesulfonic acid, ethanesulfonic acid, p toluenesulfonic acid, and the like. EXAMPLE 4 Conversion of Salt to Free Base 1.0 g of l 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 phenyletbyl n butyl imidazole.HCl suspended in 50 ml of ether is stirred with excess dilute aqueous potassium carbonate solution until the salt is completely dissolved. The organic layer is then separated, washed twice with water, dried over magnesium sulfate and evaporated to yield 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 phenylethyl n butyl imidazole as the free base. EXAMPLE 5 Direct interchange of acid addition salts 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 phenylethyl n iJutyl imidazole acetate 1.0 g is dissolved in 50 m 50 aqueous sulfuric acid, and the solution evaporated to dryness. The product is suspended in ethanol Ind filtered, air dried and the resulting 1 4 4chlorophenyl 2 2 phenylethyl n butyl imidazole.H2SO4 is crystallized from methanol acetone. The active ingredient in Examples 6 7 is 1 2 2 phenylethyl 4 4 chlorophenyl butyl imidazole as the nitrate salt however any compound of the invention may be utilized. EXAMPLE 6 The following illustrates formulations for vaginal administration in contraceptive uses of the compounds. a Water soluble vaginal cream Ingredients w w Active ingredient 1.0 Cetostearyl alcohol 12.0 Polysorbate 60 2.0 Sorbitan monostearate 2.0 Mineral oil 2.0 Propylene glycol 4.0 Benzyl alcohol 1.0 Butylated hydroxyanisole 0.01 Purified water qs ad 100.0 All ingredients except the active ingredient, water, and 10 of the Polysorbate 60 are mixed and heated to 70 800. 85 of the required water is separately heated to 70 800. The remaining Polysorbate 60 and 10 of the water are dissolved together at 50 600, and the active ingredient dissolved therein. The heated water is then added to the heated emulsifying ingredients using a homomixer at medium speed, with a final increase to high speed for 1 minute after mixing is complete. The homomixer is removed and mixing continued gently until the mixture congeals and cools to room temperature whereupon the active ingredient, previously dissolved as described above, is added, and gentle mixing continued for 20 30 minutes.The remaining 5 of water is then used to rinse the vessels containing the premixed active ingredient and the rinse added to the total mixture. Mixing is continued and further water added if necessary. For each application approximately 1 gm of the cream is vaginally administered to an adult human female with a suitable syringe. b Vaginal jelly Ingredients w w Active ingredient 1.00 Tragacanth 3.00 Acacia 0.53 Glycerin 5.00 Boric acid 3.00 Ricinoleic acid 0.75 p hydroxybenzoic acid, propyl ester 0.05 Purified water qs ad 100.0 The tragacanth and acacia are intermixed thoroughly with the glycerin ricinoleic acid and active ingredient are then added to the mixture. The p hydroxybenzoate and boric acid are dissolved in water with heating if necessary , and the solution is added to the prior mixture, with stirring and warming to dissolve. The mixture becomes gelatinous upon cooling. For each application approximately 1 gram of the gel is vaginally administered to an adult human female with a suitable syringe. c Vaginal suppository Ingredients w w Active ingredient 1.0 Polyethylene glycol 4000 20.0 Butylated hydroxyanisole 0.01 Polyethylene glycol 1000 qs ad 100.0 The polyethylene glycol solids are mixed and heated to 70 80 , and the BHA dissolved in the mixture. After cooling to 450C, the active ingredient is suspended in the above mixture by stirring. The suspension is poured into molds which are of sufficient size to form suppositories of about 3 gm each, and cooled. d Effervescent vaginal tablets Ingredients w w Active ingredient 1.0 Anhydrous citric acid 35.0 Sodium bicarbonate 15.0 Polyethylene glycol 6000 20.0 Lactose qs ad 100.0 The above ingredients are combined and granulated using methanol as the solvent. The formulation is then dried and formed into tablets containing 20 mg of active compound with an appropriate tableting medicine. e Vaginal spray foam Ingredients 8 wZw Active ingredient 2.0 Emulsion base 90.0 Propellant 12 114 40 60 8.0 The emulsion base is made up according to the following w w composition myristic acid 1.33 stearic acid 5.33 cetyl alcohol 0.50 lanolin 0.20 isopropyl myristate 1.33 triethanolamine 3.33 glycerin 4.70 polyvinylpyrrolidine 0.34 purified water 82.93 The ingredients of the emulsion base, except for the water, are mixed in a stainless steel container kept at 70 80 . 80 of the water to be used is also heated to 70 80 and mixed during heating with a homomixer at moderate speed. After complete addition, the speed of mixing is increased for several minutes.The mixture is then cooled to room temperature and a solution containing the active ingredient in the remaining 20 water is added with continuous mixing. The preparation is placed in an appropriate spray can, topped with the propellant mixture, and sealed. For each application approximately 0.5 gm of the foam are vaginally administered. f Vaginal soluble waffle Ingredients w w Active ingredient 1.0 Starch 10.0 Water soluble lanolin qs ad 100.0 The above ingredients are thoroughly mixed and pressed into 0.8 gm waffles with a suitable press. EXAMPLE 7 The following pharmaceutical composition is representative of those which may be used for oral administration to a male mammal for contraceptive use. Ingredients Parts by Weight Active ingredient 200 Magnesium stearate 3 Starch 30 Lactose 116 Polyvinylpyrrolidone 3The above ingredients are combined and granulated using methanol as the solvent. The formulation is then dried and formed into tablets containing 200 milligrams of active compound with an appropriate tableting machine. EXAMPLE 8 Biodata Assay for Spermicidal Activity The entire ejaculate, including both sperm rich and prostatic secretion fractions, is collected from a maleBeagle RAR 2 into a prewarmed collection tube.Immediately after collection the tube is placed into a 370C water bath. Within 15 minutes of collection the semen sample mixed by repeated inversion is aliquoted into prewarmed tubes and a solution of compound to be tested added in a ratio of 1 3 test solutions semen.Identical vehicle control s are always assayed concomitantly. As soon as possible after addition of test solution time 0 a drop of semen is removed, placed on a prewarmed slide and examined microscopically for sperm motility, graded active to inactive on a scale of 5 to 0. These measures of motility are then repeated at specified time intervals. Final time of Concentration assay Motility Compound tested tpg ml mm 1. 2.5 0 4 30 0 60 0 2. 2.5 0 4 30 0 60 0 3. 2.5 0 4 30 0 60 0 4. 2.5 0 4 30 0 60 0 5. 2.5 0 4 30 60 6. 2.5 0 4 30 60 7. 2.5 0 4 30 1 60 0 8. 2.5 0 4 30 60 0.9 aCl 0 4 DMSO 30 4 60 4 Motility is listed as active to inactive on a scale of 5 to 0. Most appeared non motile, a few with good forward motility. very few seen motile. same as , but fewer motile. Compounds 1. 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 phenylethyl n butylimidazole nitrate 2. 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 4 fluorobenzyl n butyl imidazole nitrate 3. 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 chlorobenzyl n butyl imidazole nitrate 4. 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 2 chlorophenyl ethyl n butyl imidazole nitrate 5. 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 4 chlorophenyl ethyl n butyl imidazole nitrate 6. 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 4 chlorobenzyl n butyl imidazole nitrate 7. l 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2,4 dichlorobenzyl n butyl imidazole nitrate 8. 1 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 3,4 dichlorobenzyl n butyl imidazole nitrate