# Method of insulating.

## Abstract
A method of insulating an area comprising positioning a structure, such as a structure consisting of non porous micro cellular film of from 0.0127 to 0.508 mm thickness of a polymer of the structure

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method of thermally insulating an area comprising positioning adjacent to the area a thermal barrier comprising apolymeric non porous micro celular ilmcharacterized in that the thermal barrier comprises a film of heterocyclic polymers having in the repeating units the tri substituted 1,3 imidazolidine 1 3 diyl ring EMI10.1 wherein X O or NH, provided at least one X is 0 either alone or contiguous to a second material adjacent to said area. 2. A method according to claim 1, in which the polymer of which the film is formed have the repeating unit EMI10.2 wherein Q isEMI10.3 X O or NH, provided at least one X is O, R is an organic moiety which may be aliphatic, alicyclic, aromatic or mixtures thereof and n is sufficiently large to produce a solid product. 3. A method according to claim 2, in which theDolmer has the structure EMI10.4 4. A method according to claim 2, in which the polymer has the structure EMI11.1 5. A method according to cm aim 3 or a, in which R is methylenediphenyl. 6. A method according to c aim 3 or 4, in which R is oxydiphenyl. 7. A method according to claim 3 or 4, in which R is a mixture of methylenediphenyl and 2,4tolylenediyl groups. 8. A method according to claim 3 or 4, in which R is a mixture of diphenyl and bitolylenediyl groups. 9. A method according to any of claims 1 to 8, in which the film is bonded to the second material thereby forming a laminate. 10. A method according to an of claims 1 to 9, in which the second material is glass, wood, metal, paper, asbestos or a plastics material. 11. A method according to any of claims 1 to 10, in which the thermal barrier comprises the non porous micro cellular film alone. 12. A method according to any of claims 1 toll, in which the film is from 0.0127 to 0.508 mm.

## Description
METHOD OF INSULATING The present invention relates to a method of insulating an area to reduce both thermal conductivity and the transfer of radiant heat. The present invention in particular relates to specific polymeric materials which in conjunction with other materials as in the form of laminates provide a structure to insulate an area. The art is replete with numerous polymeric materials used either alone or in combination with other mate rials to form thermal screens, e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 3,730,891 heat insulating PVC film is prepared by treating PVC resin or copolymer with anhydrous silica, plasticizer and stabilizer U.S. Pat. No. 4,076,889 heat insulating material produced by applying a metal to one surface of a film of polyfluoroolefin or fluoroolefin copolymer . Of Course, foamed polyurethane is among the best known and widely used insulating materials. Various other polymeric materials, both foamed and unfoamed, transluscent and opaque, alone and laminated have been similarly employed. Specific polymers employed herein are poly imino imidazolidinediones and poly parabanic acid resins. Both the poly iminoimidazolidinediones and poly parabanic acids and their methods of preparation are known and described in detail in U.S. Pat. No. 3,661,859. The poly parabanic acids may also be prepared by other processes, such as shown inU.S. Pat. No. 3,609,113 and German Pat. No. 1,770,146. The polymers may contain both imino 1,3 imidazolidinedione 1,3 diyl rings and imidazolidinetrione rings, thus the present polymers may be broadly characterized as having the repeating unit EMI1.1 wherein Q isEMI1.2 wherein X is O or Is H, provided that at least one X is O, R is an organic moiety which may be aliphatic, alicyc ic, aromatic or r .y.tures thereof, and n is sufficintly large to produce a solid product. Some of the parabanic acid polymers have been found to have high glass transition temperatures, and thus are specially suitable as magnetic tapes where good di men sional stability at high temperatures is required , films for use in flexible printed circuits, cable wraps, etc., for fibers such as tire cord fibers where tensile strength and modulus are required , for moldings for electrical connectors, bearings, magnetic wire insulation, coatings for cables, cookware, glass fabrics, industrial belts where high temperatures are required and the like. In addition to the excellent thermal and physical properties of the films made from the polymers they have the advantage of providing thermal and radiant insulation. These and other advantages and features of the present invention will become obvious from the following description. The present invention relates to a method of thermally insulating an area by positioning a structure comprising a film of non porous, micro cellular polymer as described below alone or with a contiguous second material adjacent to said area. The films are opaque. As the term thermally insulating an area is used herein, it is understood to mean that the structure of the defined polymer alone or with a contiguous second structure presents a thermal barrier at least 10 greater than the absence of said defined polymer or second material alone.A thermal barrier as that term is used herein means an impediment to the transfer or transmission of heat. The structure of the defined polymer and optional second material may entirely enclose an area or may separate a first area from a second area such that the two areas communicate around the structure a in which event it may be considered that either area is insulated. The non porous, micro cellular film compriseshetero cyclic polymers characterized in the repeating unit by the trisubstituted 1,3 imidazolidine 1,3 diyl ring EMI3.1 wherein X 0 or NH, provided at least one X is 0 or more especially polymers having the repeating unit EMI3.2 wherein Q isEMI3.3 and X has the significance set out above, R is an organic moiety which may be aliphatic, alicyclic, aromatic or mixtures thereof and n is sufficiently large to produce a solid product. ore particularly, the polymers may be poly imino1,3 imidazolidinediones of the following structure EMI3.4 poly parabanic acids characterized by tri substituted 1,3imidazolidine 1,3 diyl rings of the following structure EMI3.5 or more specifically, polymers of the general structure EMI3.6 EMI4.1 respectively, wherein R and n have the significance given above. The group R may be an aliphatic hydrocarbon moiety such as a tetramethylene, hexamethylene, decamethylene or 2,2,4 trimethyl hexamethylene groun, an aromatic hydrocarbon moiety such as a m phenylene, p shenylene, biphenylene or 115 naphtha ene group or an alicyclic hydrocarbon moiety such as a cyclohexane group. Other examples of the group R include toluene, durene, 4,4 diphenylmethane 3,3 dimethyl 4,4 biphenylene, 4,4 diphenylisopropylidene, p xylylene, m xylylene, 4,4 methylene bis cyclobexyl, 4 cyclohexyl phenyl or benzyl grouns.The group R may be substituted and examples of substituted moieties include the 4,4 diphenylsuiphone, 4,4 diphenylether, 3,3 dimethoxy 4,4 biphenylene, diproDylether, isophorone, tetratluoro p phenylene and 4,4 octafluoro biphenyl grouDs. Preferred groups R include the methylenediphenyl and oxydinhenyl groups. R may also represent a mixture of groups, and preferably a mixture of methylenediphenyl and 2,4 tolylenediyl groups or a mixtureof diphenyl and bitolylenediyl grouss. The structure may comprise the defined polymer film and any other material or substrate, such as glass, wood, metal, such as steel, copper or aluminum, paper, asbestos, other polymeric materials including plastics material such as polyurethane1 polyvinyl chloride, polystyrene or the defined polymer, and the like which are used contiguous to said defined polymer and may consist of multiple layers of said other materials and said defined polymer.Laminates of the defined polymer to said other material are particularly preferred, although bonding the defined polymer to the other material is not essential to obtain the benefits of thermal and radiant heat insulation of the defined polymer film Generally the non porousmlicro cellular films range in thickness from about 0.5 mil to 20 mils 0.0127 0.508 mm . The micro cellular films of the defined polymers may be produced by the method disclosed in U.S. Pat No. s 4,105,616 and 4,272,467. Briefly, the micro cellular film is prepared by dissolving solid polymer of the defined polmer in moderate hydrogen bonding dipolar, aprotic solvents, for example, dimethylformamide, and casting a film with the solution in the usual manner however, prior to complete drying of the cast film, it is precipitated by contacting the film with an antisolvent, such as water, aliphatic ketones, esters, hydrocarbons, halogenated hydrocarbons and ethers then removing the solvent and anti solvent by completely drying the now non porous, micro cellular film. By this process the non porous micro cellular films can be prepared as a free film or a permanent coating on a surface.Generally the range of cell diameters is from about 0.1 to about 10 microns. The cellular films may be conveniently adhere to It has a glass transition temperature of 290 C and can not be extruded or molded. For purposes of convenience, this polymer species will be referred to as PPA M. It will be recognized that other poly parabanic acids PPA and their precursors PIPA can be prepared from other monomers so that the diphenyl methane group will be replaced by dther organic moieties. In general, the preferred polymers of the poly mer compositions are those which have sufficient repeating units at room temperature to be solids. In addition to the polymer, it is contemplated that other appropriate additives which are not detrimental to the compositions, such as those employed to stabilize against oxidation or ultraviolet light, flame retardants, pigments, fillers, plasticizers and the like may be present. The following examples illustrate the present in vention The micro cellular polymer films were evaluated for their effectiveness as insulation to radiant energy and thermal conductivity. the second material, e.g., wall board by conventional ad hesives, such as the epoxies, polystyrene solutions, atactic polypropylene in solvents, mastics and the like. EY,AMJPLES For purposes of illustration, the examples illustrating the invention will be described in specific with respect to cellular films of a particular polymer, that is, a poly parabanic acid prepared from diphenylmethane diisocyanate to result in a high performance polymer having the repeating unit shown below EMI6.1 which is also designated as polyLl,4 phenylenemethylene l, 4 phenylene l,3 imidazolidine 2,4,4 trione which is also designated in chemical abstracts as poly C 2,4,5 trioxo l, 3 imiCazolidinediyl l,4 phenylenemethylene l,4 phenylene3. EVALUATION AS h RADIANT HEAT BARRIER Four boxes were constructed from l 25.4 mm thick polyurethane foam which had a thermal conductivity of 0.14 BTU in. hr. ft2 F 0.02 Wm 1 C 1 and a density of 0.032 g. cc. The inside dimensions were 6 152.4 mm wide, 12 304.8 mm long, and 6 152.4 mm high. All edges of the boxes were sealed with aluminum duct tape. A 2500F 1210C thermo meter was inserted throuh the side of each box and positioned so that the mercury bulb was in the center of the box. The tops for the boxes were sealed on with duct tape. The tops were made of micro cellular PPA M film, and 1 25.4 mm thick rigid polyurethane foam as described. The boxes were mounted on a board adjacent to each other and placed in direct sunlight on the roof of a building. The temperature inside each box was recorded at various times throughout the day as recored in Tables I andII. Table I shows a comparison of the effectiveness of glass, polyurethane foam and cellular PPA N film to resist the transfer of heat during direct exposure to the sun. The data in Table I reveals that the cellularPPA M film is an excellent barrier to radiant heat. It is better than polyurethane foam and is superior to glass. TABLE I Temperature Inside Boxes Poly U CellularBox Covers Glass Foam a PPA M b Time of Day F C F C F C 9 10 a.m. 85 29 85 29 85 29 10 30 a.m. 164 73 122 50 116 47 1 10 p.m. 182 83 122 50 115 46 4 00 p,m. 158 70 120 49 106 41 4 30 p.m. 149 65 11 47 105 41 a Rigid polyurethane foam, 1 25.4 mm thick. b Cellular PPA N film, 0,010 0.25 mm thick. The data in Table TI shows that cellular films of two thicknesses and two different densities compare favorably with 1 25. mm thick nolyurethane foam as barriers to radiant heat. TABLE ITB. RADIANT HEAT EVALUATIONS Temperature Inside BoxesExample 1 2 b 3 c z4 d Box Cover Poly U Cellular PPA M Film Foam a Time of Day 8 00 a.m. 82 F 28 C 82 F 28 C 82 F 28 C 82 F 28 C 9 00 a.m. 102 39 100 38 98 37 92 33 1 05 p.m. 111 44 116 47 112 44 107 42 3 00 p.m. 109 43 112 44 110 43 104 40 a Rigid polyurethane foam, 1 25.4 mm thick. b CellularPPA Mfilm, 0.002 0.051 mm thick, density 0.69. c Cellular PPA t film, 0.005 0.127 mm thick, density 0.60. d Cellular PPA45film, 0.005 0.127 mm thick, density 0.080. EVALUATION OF THERMAL CONDUCTIVITY The thermal conductivities of three PPA M microcellular films were determined by placing the film 17 mm diameter between polished silver plates which could be kept at the given boiling points of two liquids by a constant supply of heat to the higher boiling point liquid. When steady equilibrium was attained, the lower boiling point liquid vaporized at a constant rate and was condensed and collected in a measuring vessel. The time for a given volume to distill was measured and the thermal conductivity was calculated. The Colora Thermo conductometer was used to make the measurements. The results of this evaluation are reported inTable III. TABLE IIITHERMAL CONDUCTIVITY EVALUATIONSThermal ConductivityExample Thickness Density Wm 1deg.C. 1 b BTU in hr ft2 F C 5 0.005 in. 0.127 mm 0.81 g. cc. 0.13 0.90 6 0.0055 in. 0.14 mm 0.59 g. cc. 0.12 0.83 7 0.002 in. 0.051 mm 0.83 g. cc. 0.10 0.69 a The films were micro cellular, non porous and opaque. b Thermal conductivity expressed in S.I. Systems International d Unites units W watts, m meter. c Thermal conductivity expressed in British units.