# Use of 2,4 disubstituted 5 thiazolecarboxylic acids and derivatives for reducing injury to crop plants by acetamide herbicides.

## Abstract
2,4 Disubstituted 5 thiazolecarboxylic acids and deriva tives thereof have been found to reduce herbicidal injury of corn, rice and sorghum plants due to the application thereto of an acetamide herbicide selected from the ethyl ester of N chloroacetyl N 2,6 diethylphenyl glycine 2 chloro 2 ,3 dimethyl N isopropyl acetanilide 2 chloro 2 ,6 dimethyl N 1 pyrazolymethyl acetanilide 2 chloro 6 trifluoromethyl N isopropoxymethyl acetanilide 2 chloro 2 methyl 6 trifluoromethyl N isopropoxymethyl acetanilide 2 chloro 2 methyl 6 methoxy N isopropoxymethyl acetanilide 2 chloro 2 methyl 6 methoxy N propoxymethyl acetanilide 2 chloro 2 methyl 6 ethoxy N propoxymethyl acetanilide 2 chloro 2 isobutoxy 6 methyl N propoxy methyl acetanilide 2 chloro 2 isobutoxy 6 ethyl N ethoxymethyl acetanilide and 2 chloro 2 methyl 6 trifluoromethyl N ethoxymethyl acetanilide.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A method for selectively preventing the growth of weeds in the present of corn or sorghum crop plants which comprises applying to the crop plant locus an acetamide herbicide selected from the group consisting of ethyl ester of N chloroacetyl N 2,6 diethylphenyl glycine 2 chloro 2 ,3 dimethyl N isopropyl acetanilide 2 chloro 2 , 6 dimethyl N ipyrazolymethyl acetanilide 2 chloro 6 trifluoromethyl N isopropoxymethyl acetanilide 2 chloro 2 methyl 6 trifluoromethyl N isopropoxymethyl acetanilide 2 chloro 2 methyl 6 methoxy N isopropoxy methyl acetanilide 2 chloro 2 methyl 6 methoxy N propoxymethyl acetanilide 2 chloro 2 methyl 6 ethoxy N propoxymethyl acetanilide 2 chloro 2 isobutoxy 6 methyl N propoxymethyl acetanilide 2 chloro 2 isobutoxy 6 ethyl N ethoxymethyl acetanilide and 2 chloro 2 methyl 6 trifluoromethyl N ethoxymethyl acetanilide, said crop plants having been germinated from seeds treated with a safening effective amount of a compound of the formulaEMI30.1 wherein X is selected from the group consisting of chloro, bromo, iodo, fluoro, R is haloalkyl and R is from the group consisting of hydrogen, agriculturally acceptable cations, alkyl, lower alkenyl, lower alkynl, alkoxyalkyl, haloalkyl, benzyl, phenyl and phenyl substituted by one or two members independently selected from the group consisting of halogen, lower alkyl, trifluoromethyl and ntro. 2. A method according to Claim 1 wherein R is trifluoromethyl and X is chloro. 3. A method according to Claim 1 wherein the crop is sorghum. 4. A method according to Claim 1 wherein the crop is corn. 5. A method according to Claim 2 wherein said herbicide is 2 chloro 2 methyl 6 trifluoromethyl N ethoxymethyl acetanilide. 6. A method according to Claim 2 wherein said herbicide is 2 chloro 2 isobutoxy 6 methoxy N propoxymethyl acetanilide. 7. A method according to Claim 2 wherein said herbicide is 2 chloro 2 isobutoxy 6 ethyl N propoxymethyl acetanilide. 8. Sorghum seed, the plants grown from which are resistant to injury by an acetamide herbicide selected from the group consisting of the ethyl ester of N chloroacetyl N 2, 6 diethylphenyl glycine 2 chloro 2 , 3 dimethyl N isopropyl acetanilide 2 chloro 2 , 6 dimethylN l pyrazolemethyl acetanilide 2 chloro 6 trifluoromethyl N isopropoxymethyl acetanilide 2 chloro 2 methyl 6 trifluoromethyl N isopropoxymethyl acetanilide 2 chloro2 methoxy N isopropoxymethyl acetanilide 2 chloro 2 methyl 6 methoxy N propoxymethyl acetanilide 2 chloro2 methyl 6 ethoxy N propoxymethyl acetanilide 2 chloro2 isobutoxy 6 ethyl N ethoxymethyl acetanilide 2 chloro2 isobutoxy 6 methyl N propoxymethyl acetanilide and 2 chloro 2 methyl 6 trifluoromethyl N ethoxymethyl acetanilide, comprising crop seed coated with a safening effective amount of a compound having the formulaEMI31.1 wherein X is selected from the group consisting of chloro, bromo, iodo and fluoro, R is haloalkyl and R is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, agriculturally acceptable cations, alkyl, lower alkenyl, lower alkynl, alkoxyalkyl, haloalkyl, benzyl, phenyl and phenyl substituted by one or two members independently selected from the group consisting of halogen, lower alkyl, trifluoromethyl and nitro. 9. Seed coated according to Claim 8 wherein said compound is one in which X is chloro. 10. Seed coated according to Claim 8 wherein said compound is one in which R is trifluoromethyl. 11. Seed coated accoriding to Claim 8 wherein said compound is one in which R is alkyl. 12. Seed coated according to Claim 8 wherein said compound is one in which X is chloro and R is trifluoromethyl. 13. Seed coated according to Claim 8 wherein said compound is one in which X is chloro, R is haloalkyl and R is benzyl. 14. A method for reducing herbicidal injury to sorghum plants by application thereto of an acetamide herbicide selected from the group consisting of the ethyl ester of N chloroacetyl N 2,6 diethylphenyl glycine 2 chloro 2 3 dimethyl N isopropylEacetanilide 2 chloro 2 , 6 dimethyl N 1 pyrazolymethyl acetanilide 2chloro 6 trifluoromethyl N isopropoxymethyl acetanilide 2 chloro 2 methyl 6 trifluoromethyl N isopropoxymethyl acetanilide 2 chloro 2 methyl 6 methoxy N isopropoxy methyl acetanilide 2 chloro 2 methyl 6 methoxy N propOxymethyl acetanilide 2 chloro 2 methyl 6 ethOxy N propoxymethyl acetanilide 2 chloro 2 isobutoxy 6 methyl N propoxymethyl acetanilide 2 chloro 2 isobutoxy6 ethyl N ethoxymethyl acetanilide and 2 chloro 2 methyl 6 trifluoromethyl N ethoxymethyl acetanilide, which comprises coating the seed of a sorghum plant with a safening effective amount of a compound having the formulaEMI33.1 wherein X is selected from the group consisting of chloro, bromo, iodo and fluoro, haloalkyl and R is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, agriculturally acceptable cations, alkyl, lower alkenyl, lower alkyni, alkoxyalkyl, haloalkyl, benzyl, phenyl and phenyl substituted by one or two members independently selected from the group consisting of halogen, lower alkyl, trifluoromethyl and nitro. 15. A method according to Claim 14 wherein X is chloro. 16. A method according to Claim 14 wherein R is trifluoromethyl. 17. A method according to Claim 14 wherein X is chloro and R is trifluoromethyl. 18. A mixture which comprises a herbicidally effective amount oa an acetamide herbicide selected from the group consisting of the ethyl ester of N chloroacetyl N 2, 6 diethylphenyl glycine 2 chloro 2 3 dimethyl N isopropyl acetanilide 2 chloro 2 6 dimethyl N l pryazolylmethyl acetanilide 2 chloro 6 trifluoromethyl N isopropoxymethyl acetanilide 2 chloro 2 methyl 6 trifluoromethyl N isopropoxymethyl acetanilide 2chloro 2 methyl 6 methoxy N isopropoxymethyl acetanilide 2 chloro 2 methyl 6 methoxy N propoxymethyl acetanilide 2 chloro 2 methyl 6 ethoxy N propoxymethyl acetanilide 2 chloro 2 isobutoxy 6 methyl N propoxymethyl acetanilide 2 chloro 2 isobutoxy 6 ethyl N ethoxymethyl acetanilide and 2 chloro 2 methyl 6 trifluoromethyl N ethoxymethyl acetanilide, and a safening effective amount of a compound having the formula EMI34.1 wherein X is selected from the group consisting of chloro, bromo, iodo and fluoro R is haloalkyl and R is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, agriculturally acceptable cations, alkyl, lower alkenyl, lower alkynl, alkoxyalkyl, haloalkyl, benzyl, phenyl and phenyl substituted by one or two members independently selected from the group consisting of halogen, lower alkyl, triflutro methyl and nitro the ratio of herbicide to safening agent being from 1 25 to 25 1. 19. A mixture according to Claim 18 wherein R is trifluoromethyl and X is chloro. 20. A mixture according to Claim 18 wherein said herbicide is 2 chloro 2 methyl 6 trifluoromethyl N ethoxymethyl acetanilide. 21. A mixture according to Claim 18 wherein said herbicide is 2 chloro 2 isobutoxy 6 methyl N propoxy methyl acetanilide. 22. A mixture according to Claim 18 wherein said herbicide is 2 chloro 2 isobutoxy 6 ethyl N ethoxymethyl acetanilide.

## Description
USE OF 2,4 DISUBSTITUTED 5 THIAZOLECARBOXYLIC ACIDS AND DERIVATIVES FOR REDUCING INJURY TO CROP PLANTS BY ACETAMIDE HERBICIDES The invention relates to novel compositions and methods for reducing injury to crop plants by certain acetanilide herbicides, which comprises treating the crop plant locus or the seed of the crop plant with an effective amount of a 2,4 disubstituted 5 thiazolecarboxylic acid or derivative thereof that will be described more fully below. U.S. Patent 4,199,506 discloses the same thiazole compounds being used to protect crop plants from the harmful effects of certain bther herbicides. The same patent also discloses the preparation of the thiazole compounds. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Acetamide herbicides are very useful for controlling certain weeds, especially grasses, in the presence of growing crops. However, many of the acetamide herbicides injure certain crop plants, slowing growth and development at application rates necessary to stunt or kill the weeds.Accordingly, some of the acetamide herbicides cannot be used for controlling weeds in the presence of certain crops.Obviously, a safening agent consisting of a composition that could be used to treat the seed of the crop plant, the crop plant locus or the crop plant itself, resulting in a reduction of injury due to application of the herbicide without a corresponding reduction of herbicidal action on the weeds, would be quite beneficial. DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION In accordance with the novel aspects of the present invention, injury to crop plants, such as corn, rice and sorghum, due tp appliication thereto of certain acetanilide herbicides including the ethyl ester of N chloro acetyl N 2,6 diethylphenyl glycine 2 chloro 2 ,3 dimethyl N iseEropyl acetanilide 2 chloro 2 ,6 dimethyl N 1 pyrazolylmethyl acetanilide 2 chloro 6 trifluoromethyl N isopropoxymethyl acetanilide 2 chloro 2 methyl 6 trifluoromethyl N isopropoxymethyl acetanilide 2chloro 2 methyl 6 trifluoromethyl N ethoxymethyl acetanilide 2 chloro 2 methyl 6 methoxy N isopropoxymethyl acetanilide 2 chloro 2 methyl 6 methoxy N propoxymethyl acetanilide 2 chloro 2 isobutoxy 6 methyl N propoxymethyl acetanilide 2 chloro 2 isobutoxy 6 ethyl N ethoxy methyl acetanilide and 2 chloro 2 methyl 6 ethoxy N propoxymethyl acetanilide may be reduced without a corresponding reduction in injury to the weeds by application to the crop plant locus or the seed of the crop plant prior to planting of an effective amount of a safening agent comprising a 2,4 disubstituted 5 thiazolecarboxylic acid or derivative thereof having the formulaEMI2.1 wherein n is zero or one X is selected from the group consisting of chloro, bromo, iodo, lower alkoxy, phenoxy and phenoxy substituted by one or two groups independently selected from the group consisting of lower alkyl and halogen R is selected from the group consisting of alkyl having up to nine carbon atoms, haloalkyl and trialkoxy methyl when n is one, R is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, agriculturally acceptable cations, alkyl 1 10 carbon atoms being preferred , lower alkenyl, lower alkynyl, lower alkoxy, lower alkyl, haloalkyl, benzyl, phenyl and phenyl substituted by one or two members independently selected from the group consisting of halogen, lower alkyl, trifluoromethyl and nitro when n is zero, R is selected from the group consisting of chloro, amino and mono or dilower alkylamino. All of the compounds of the above formula are believed to be novel except those in which R is alkyl. As used herein, the terms lower alkyl , lower alkenyl , lower alkoxy , and lower alkynyl1, are understood to include alkyl, alkenyl and alkynyl groups having up to five carbon atoms, inclusive. The terms alkyl , alkenyl and alkynyl are understood to include branched and unbranched groups. When R is lower alkenyl, allyl is Preferred. When R is lower alkynyl, propargyl is preferred. The term haloalkyl is understood to mean those alkyl moieties having up to five carbon atoms wherein at least one hydrogen atom has been replaced by a halogen atom.Specifically included are those alkyl moieties in which all of the hydrogen atoms have been replaced by halogen atoms, such as trifluoromethyl. The term agriculturally acceptable cations is understood to mean those cations that are commonly used to form the salt of the free acid. Such cations include, but are not limited to, alkali metal, alkaline earth, substituted amine and ammonium cations. The amount of safening agent employed in the method and compositions of the invention will vary depending upon the particular herbicide with which the agent is employed, the rate of application of the herbicide, the crop to be protected as well as the manner of application of the safening agent. In each instance, the amount employed is a safening effective amount, i.e., the amount which reduces crop injury by the acetamide herbicide. The safening agent may be applied to the plant locus in a mixture with the herbicide, sequentially or it may be applied directly to the seed of the crop plant. By application to the plant locus is meant application to the plant growing medium, such as the soil, as well as the seeds, emerging seedlings, roots, stems, leaves, flowers, fruits or other plant parts. The amount of herbicide employed is well within the skill of the art and is disclosed in various patents. The herbicidal use of 2 chloro 6 trifluoromethyl N isopropoxymethyl acetanilide, 2 chloro 2 methyl 6 trifluoromethyl N ethoxymethyl acetanilide and 2 chloro 2 methyl 6 trifluoromethyl N isopropoxymethyl acetanilide is disclosed in Belgian Patent No. 887,997 issuedSeptember 18, 1981. The herbicidal use of 2 chloro 2 methyl 6 methoxy N isopropoxymethyl acetanilide 2 chloro2 methyl 6 methoxy N propoxymethyl acetanilide and 2chloro 2 methyl 6 ethoxy N propoxymethyl acetanilide is disclosed in Belgian Patent NQ. 887,995 issuedSeptember 18, 1981. To illustrate the effectiveness of the 2,4 disubstituted5 thiazolecarboxylic acids and derivatives thereof, the following examples are presented. These examples are presented merely as being illustrative of the novel aspects of the invention and are not intended to be a limitation as to the scope thereof. Example 1 A good grade of top soil is placed in a container and compacted to a depth of approximately 1.27 cm. from the top of said container. A predetermined number of seeds of each of the crop species to be tested are placed on top of the soil. A quantity of soil sufficient to substantially fill the container is measured and placed in a second container.A measured quantity of the safening agent dispersed or dissolved in a suitable carrier is applied to the soil in the second container. A measured quantity of the acetamide herbicide dispersed or dissolved in a suitable carrier is then sprayed on the soil already treated with the safening agent. The soil containing the safening agent and herbicide is thoroughly mixed. This mixing is sometimes referred to as incorporation of the herbicide and safening agent into the soil. The mixing or incorporation provides a substantially uniform distribution of the safening agent and herbicide throughout the soil. The seeds are covered with the soil containing the safening agent and acetamide herbicide and the pots are leveled. The pots are then placed on a sand bench in the greenhouse and watered from below as needed.The plants are observed at the end of approximately 21 days and the results in terms of percent inhibition of each seed lot are recorded. For each test series, a pot is also prepared containing no acetamide herbicide and no safening agent as a control. Additionally, for each test, pots are prepared with soil covering the seed containing no acetamide herbicide and only the measured amount of safening agent being incorporated into the soil covering the seeds to ascertain any herbicidal effect of the safening agent aloneFor each series of tests, the herbicidal effect of the acetamide herbicide is observed from pots treated with the same quantity of herbicide alone. The safening effect is determined by adding the herbicidal effect of the acetamide herbicide when applied alone to the herbicidal effect of the safening agent when applied alone in no instance, however, will this sum be greater than 100 and subtracting from that the herbicidal effect obtained when both the herbicide and safening agent are incorporated into the soil as discussed above. Example 2 Sorghum seeds were treated with a solution of the appropriate safening agent in dichloromethane. The solvent was evaporated which left only the safening agent on the seed. Untreated and treated sorghum seeds were planted in pots. Selected weed species were planted in separate pots.1.27 cm. deep soil cover layer was placed on the pre seeded pots. The soil surface was then treated with the herbicide.Approximately 21 days later, the results were observed and recorded. Table I summarizes the results observed when tests were conducted in accordance with Example 2. TABLE I Percent Sorghum Inhibition Rate of Seed Treatment Concentration grams Herbicide of safening agent kilograms of seed Herbicide kg h Safening Agent 0 0.6 2.5 10 2 chloro 2 Ethyl 2 chloro 4 0 0 0 25 methyl 6 0.28 trifluoromethyl 5 40 20 10 20 methoxy N thiazole isopropoxy 1.12 carboxylate 83 45 45 30 methyl acetanilide 4.48 97 80 75 55 2 chloro 2 Benzyl 2 chloro 4 0 0 0 25 methyl 6 trifluoromethyl 5 43 5 5 8 methoxy N thiazole isopropoxy carboxylate 85 55 33 40 methyl acetanilide 99 83 80 75 Example 3 Sorghum seeds were treated with a solution of the appropriate safening agent in dichloromethane. The solvent was evaporated which left only the safening agent on the seed. Untreated and treated sorghum seeds were planted in pots. 1.27 cm. deep soil cover layer was placed on the pre seeded pots.The soil surface was then treated with the herbicide. Approximately 19 days later, the results were observed and recorded. Table II summarizes the results observed when tests were conducted in accordance withExample 3. TABLE II EMI9.1 SEP Percent SEP Sorghum SEP Inhibition tb SEP Seed SEP Treatment SEP Concentration tb SEP Rate SEP of SEP Herbicide SEP grams SEP of SEP safening SEP agent tb Herbicide SEP kg h SEP Safening SEP Agent SEP kilograms SEP of SEP seed tb SEP 0 SEP 1.25 tb SEP C2H5 SEP 0 SEP Ethyl SEP 2 chloro 4 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP CH2CO2Et SEP 0.28 SEP trifluoromethyl 5 SEP 96 SEP 10 tb SEP N SEP 1.12 SEP thiazolecarboxylate SEP 99 SEP 80 tb SEP OCH2Cl SEP 4.48 SEP 100 SEP 96 tb SEP C2H5 SEP tb SEP O SEP 0 SEP Benzyl SEP 2 chloro 4 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 0.28 SEP trifluoromethyl 5 SEP 96 SEP 10 tb SEP 1.12 SEP thiazolecarboxylate SEP 99 SEP 80 tb SEP N SEP SEP CH SEP 4.48 SEP 100 SEP 96 tb SEP CH3 SEP SEP tb SEP CH2 N SEP CH SEP 0 SEP Ethyl SEP 2 chloro 4 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb N SEP C SEP 0.28 SEP trifluoromethyl 5 SEP 96 SEP 0 tb SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 1.12 SEP thiazolecarboxylate SEP 99 SEP 55 tb SEP C CH2Cl SEP 4.48 SEP 100 SEP 78 tb SEP tb SEP O SEP 0 SEP Benzyl SEP 2 chloro 4 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 0.28 SEP trifluoromethyl 5 SEP 95 SEP 65 tb SEP 1.12 SEP thiazolecarboxylate SEP 99 SEP 88 tb SEP 4.48 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb CH3 tb SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP 0 SEP Ethyl SEP 2 chloro 4 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP SEP 0.28 SEP trifluoromethyl 5 SEP 42 SEP 0 tb SEP C H SEP 1.12 SEP thiazolecarboxylate SEP 62 SEP 0 tb N SEP CH3 SEP 4.48 SEP 92 SEP 18 tb SEP tb SEP C CH2Cl SEP 0 SEP Benzyl SEP 2 chloro 4 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP SEP 0.28 SEP trifluoromethyl 5 SEP 42 SEP 0 tb SEP O SEP 1.12 SEP thiazolecarboxylate SEP 62 SEP 0 tb SEP 4.48 SEP 92 SEP 10 tb Example 4 A mixture of 2 chloro 2 methyl 6 trifluoromethyl N ethoxymethyl acetanilide and the safening agent was applied to corn, rice and sorghum to determine the safening effect.As before, the herbicide and safening agent were also applied separately and the safening effect determined. The results are summarized in Table III. TABLE III Rate of Rate of Safening Agent Herbicide Safening Safening Agent kg h kg h Crop EffectEthyl 2 chloro 4 trifluoro 8.96 0.28 Sorghum 75 methyl 5 thiazole carboxylate 8.96 1.12 Sorghum 8 8.96 4.48 Sorghum 9Ethyl 2 chloro 4 trifluoro 8.96 0.28 Rice 5 methyl 5 thiazolecarboxylate 8.96 1.12 Rice 0 8.96 4.48 Rice 0 Ethyl 2 chloro 4 trifluoro 8.96 0.28 Corn 0 methyl 5 thiazolecarboxylate 8.96 1.12 Corn 10 8.96 4.48 Corn 20 30 inhibition reduced to 10 Benzyl 2 chloro 4 trifluoro 8.96 0.28 Sorghum 70 methyl 5 thiazolecarboxylate 8.96 1.12 Sorghum 18 8.96 4.48 Sorghum 1Benzyl 2 chloro 4 trifluoro 8.96 0.28 Rice 10 methyl 5 thiazolecarboxylate 8.96 1.12 Rice 0 8.96 4.48 Rice 0Benzyl 2 chloro 4 trifluoro 8.96 0.28 Corn 0 RTI ID 11.5 methyl 5 thiazolecarboxylate 8.96 1.12 Corn 10 8.96 4.48 Corn 20 30 inhibition reduced to 10 Example 5 A mixture of 2 chloro 6 trifluoromethyl N isopropoxy methyl acetanilide and the safening agent were tested in accordance with the procedure of Example 4. Results are summarized in Table IV. TABLE IV Rate of Rate of Safening Agent Herbicide Safening Safening Agent kg h kg h Crop EffectEthyl 2 chloro 4 trifluoro 8.96 0.28 Sorghum 65 methyl 5 thiazolecarboxylate 8.96 1.12 Sorghum 98 8.96 4.48 Sorghum 20Ethyl 2 chloro 4 trifluoro 8.96 0.28 Rice 0 methyl 5 thiazolecarboxylate 8.96 1.12 Rice 9 8.96 4.48 Rice 5Ethyl 2 chloro 4 trifluoro 8.96 0.28 Corn 0 methyl 5 thiazolecarboxylate 8.96 1.12 Corn 0 8.96 4.48 Corn 15Benzyl 2 chloro 4 trifluoro 8.96 0.28 Sorghum 65 methyl 5 thiazole 8.96 1.12 Sorghum 98 carboxylate 8.96 4.48 Sorghum 45Benzyl 2 chloro 4 trifluoro 8.96 0.28 Rice 0 methyl 5 thiazole 8.96 1.12 Rice 0 carboxylate 8.96 4.48 Rice 0Benzyl 2 chloro 4 trifluoro 8.96 0.28 Corn 0 methyl 5 thiazole 8.96 1.12 Corn 0 carboxylate 8.96 4.48 Corn 15 Example 6 A mixture of 2 chloro 2 methyl 6 methoxy N propoxymethyl acetanilide and ethyl 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl 5thiazolecarboxylate was applied to the soil surface which had been preseeded with the appropriate crop and weed. The results are summarized in Table V TABLE V Rate of Rate of InhibitionHerbicide Safening Agent Yellow kg h kg h Nutsedge Foxtail Lambsquarters Rice Sorghum Corn 2.24 0 0 0 0 0 0 4.48 0 100 100 100 100 100 97 4.48 2.24 100 100 100 100 98 75 Example 7 A similar procedure is repeated utilizing benzyl 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl 5 thiazolecarboxylate as the safening agent. Observations were recorded approximately 17 days after treatment. Results are summarized inTable VI below. TABLE VI Rate of Rate of Inhibition Herbicide Safening Agent Herbicide kg h kg h Corn Sorghum 2 chloro N ethoxymethyl 6 1.12 25 99 ethyl o acetotoluidide 0.28 13 99 1.12 8.96 5 23 0.28 8.96 0 15 2 chloro 2 methyl 2 methoxy 1.12 78 99N isopropoxymethyl acetanilide 0.28 63 82 1.12 8.96 35 15 0.28 8.96 18 13 2 chloro 2 methyl 6 1.12 5 99 trifluoro methyl N ethoxymethyl 0.28 0 82 acetanilide 1.12 8.96 5 33 0.28 8.96 0 10 Example 8 Sorghum seeds were treated with an 80 powder formulation of benzyl 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl 5 thiazolecarboxylate and then planted in field plots. Herbicide was applied to the soil as a pre emergent and observations made about 6 weeks later. Tables VII and VIII summarize the results. TABLE VII Sorghum Inhibition Rate of Inhibition Seed Treatment Concentration grams Herbicide safening agent kilograms of seed Herbicide kg h Foxtail Pigweed 0 0.125 2 chloro N ethoxymethyl 1.12 100 100 17 0 6 ethyl o acetotoluidide 2.24 100 100 27 10 4.48 100 100 13 7 2 chloro 2 methyl 6 1.12 100 99 3 7 trifluoromethyl N 2.24 100 99 5 0 ethoxymethyl acetanilide 4.48 100 99 40 12 TABLE VIII Corn Inhibition Rate of Inhibition Seed Treatment Concentration grams Herbicide safening agent kilograms of seed Herbicide kg h Foxtail Pigweed 0 0.125 2 chloro N ethoxymethyl 1.12 99 100 40 35 6 ethyl o acetotoluidide 2.24 100 100 43 17 4.48 100 100 50 43 Example 9 Tests were conducted in accordance with the procedure ofExample 1 wherein the herbicide used was 2 chloro 2 isobutoxy6 methyl N propoxymethyl acetanilide on sorghum, corn, and rice. Results are illustrated in Table IX. TABLE IX Rate of Rate of Safening Agent Herbicide Safening Safening Agent kg h kg h Crop EffectEthyl 2 chloro 4 trifluoro 8.96 0.28 Sorghum 90 methyl 5 thiazolecarboxylate 8.96 1.12 Sorghum 35 8.96 4.48 Sorghum 10Ethyl 2 chloro 4 trifluoro 8.96 0.28 Corn 45 methyl 5 thiazolecarboxylate 8.96 1.12 Corn 20 8.96 4.48 Corn 0Ethyl 2 chloro 4 trifluoro 8.96 0.28 Rice 0 methyl 5 thiazolecarboxylate 8.96 1.12 Rice 0 8.96 4.48 Rice 0Benzyl 2 chloro 4 trifluoro 8.96 0.28 Sorghum 90 methyl 5 thiazolecarboxylate 8.96 1.12 Sorghum 55 8.96 4.48 Sorghum 30Benzyl 2 chloro 4 trifluoro 8.96 0.28 Corn 45 methyl 5 thiazolecarboxylate 8.96 1.12 Corn 35 8.96 4.48 Corn 43Benzyl 2 chloro 4 trifluoro 8.96 0.28 Rice 0 methyl 5 thiazolecarboxylate 8.96 1.12 Rice 0 8.96 4.48 Rice 0 Example 10 Tests were conducted in accordance with the procedure of Example 1 wherein the herbicide used was 2 chloro 2 isobutoxy 6 ethyl N ethoxymethyl acetanilide on sorghum, corn and rice. Results are illustrated in Table X. TABLE X Rate of Rate of Safening Agent Herbicide Safening Safening Agent kg h kg h Crop EffectEthyl 2 chloro 4 trifluoro 8.96 0.28 Sorghum 65 methyl 5 thiazolecarboxylate 8.96 1.12 Sorghum 72 8.96 4.48 Sorghum 29Ethyl 2 chloro 4 trifluoro 8.96 0.28 Corn 40 methyl 5 thiazolecarboxylate 8.96 1.12 Corn 45 8.96 4.48 Corn 19Ethyl 2 chloro 4 trifluoro 8.96 0.28 Rice 0 methyl 5 thiazolecarboxylate 8.96 1.12 Rice 97 8.96 4.48 Rice 0Benzyl 2 chloro 4 trifluoro 8.96 0.28 Sorghum 90 methyl 5 thiazolecarboxylate 8.96 1.12 Sorghum 67 8.96 4.48 Sorghum 14Benzyl 2 chloro 4 trifluoro 8.96 0.28 Corn 60 methyl 5 thiazolecarboxylate 8.96 1.12 Corn 60 8.96 4.48 Corn 35Benzyl 2 chloro 4 trifluoro 8.96 0.28 Rice 0 methyl 5 thiazolecarboxylate 8.96 1.12 Rice 0 8.96 4.48 Rice 0 The above examples illustrate that the thiazolecarboxylates of the present invention are useful in reducing herbicidal injury to crop plants, especially sorghum and rice. The safening agents may be applied to the plant locus as a mixture, i.e., a mixture of a herbicidally effective amount of acetamide herbicide and a safening effective amount of safening agent, or sequentially, i.e., the plant locus may be treated with an effective amount of the herbicide followed by a treatment with the safening agent or vice versa. The ratio of herbicide to safening agent may vary depending upon the crop to be protected, weeds to.be inhibited, herbicide used, etc., but normally a herbicide to safening agent ratio ranging from 1 25 to 25 1 preferably 1 5 to 5 1 parts by weight may be employed. The herbicide, safening agent or mixture thereof may be applied to the plant locus alone or the herbicide, safening agent or mixture thereof may be applied in conjunction with a material referred to in the art as an adjuvant in liquid or solid form. Mixtures containing the appropriate herbicide and safening agent usually are prepared by admixing said herbicide and safening agent with an adjuvant including diluents, extenders, carriers and conditioning agents to provide compositions in the form of finely divided particulate solids, granules, pellets, wettable powders, dusts, sortions and aqueous dispersions or emulsions.Thus, the mixture may include an adjuvant such as a finely divided particu te solid, a solvent liquid of organic origin, water, a welling agent, dispersing agent, or emulsifying agent or any suit e combination of these. When applying the herbicide, safening agent or mi ture thereof to the plant locus, useful finely divided solid carriers and extenders include, for example, the talcs, clays, pumice, silica, diatomaceous earth, quartz,Fullers, earth, sulfur, powdered cork, powdered wood, walnut flour, chalk, tobacco dust, charcoal and the like.Typical liquid diluents useful include for example, Stoddard solvent, acetone, alcohols, glycols, ethyl acetate, benzene and the like. Such compositions, particularly liquids and wettable powders, usually contain as a conditioning agent one or more surface active agents in amounts sufficient to render a given composition readily dispersible in water or in oil. By the term surface active agent , it is understood that wetting agents, dispersing agents, suspending agents and emulsifying agents are included therein. Such surface active agents are well known and reference is made to U.S. Patent No. 2,547,724, Columns 3 and 4, for detailed examples of the same. Compositions of this invention generally contain from about 5 to 95 parts herbicide and safening agent, about 1 to 50 parts surface active agent and about 4 to 94 parts solvent, all parts being by weight based on the total weight of the composition. The application of the herbicide, safening agent or mixture thereof in a liquid or particulate solid form can be carried out by conventional techniques utilizing, for example, spreaders, power dusters, boom and hand sprayers, spray dusters and granular applications. The compositions can. also be applied from airplanes as a dust or spray. If desired, application of the compositions of the invention to plants can be accomplished by incorporating the compositions in the soil or other media. The above examples also illustrate that the crop may be protected by treating the crop seed with an effective amount of safening agent prior to planting. Generally, small amounts of safening agent are required to treat such seeds. Table XVI illustrates that a weight ratio of as little as 0.6 parts of safener per 1000 parts of seed may be effective. The amount of safener utilized in treating the seed may be increased if desired. Generally, however, a weight ratio of safening agent to seed weight may range from 0.1 to 10.0 parts of safening agent per 1000 parts of seed. The determination of the effective amount of safening agent required is well within the skill of the art. Since only a very small amount of active safening agent is usually required for the seed treatment, the compound preferably is formulated as a powder or an emulsifiable concentrate which can be diluted with water by the seed treater for use in the seed treating apparatus. Of course, under certain conditions, it may be desirable to dissolve the safening agent in an organic solvent for use as a seed treatment or the pure compound alone may be used under properly controlled conditions. There are thus also provided by this invention novel seed treating compositions containing one or more of the described active safening agents intimately dispersed in an inert carrier or diluent for the intended use. Such carriers may be either solids, such as talc, clay, diatomaceous earth, sawdust, calcium carbonate, and the like or liquids such as water, kerosene, acetone, benzene, toluene, xylene, and the like in which the active agent may be either dissolved or dispersed. Emulsifying agents are advisably used to achieve a suitable emulsion if two immiscible liquids are used as a carrier. Wetting agents may also be used to aid in dispersing the active safening agent in liquids used as a carrier in which the agent is not completely soluble.Emulsifying agents and wetting agents are sold under numerous tradenames and may be either pure compounds, mixtures of compounds of the same general groups, or they may be mixtures of compounds of different classes. Typical satisfactory surface active agents which may be used are alkali metal higher alkylarylsulfonates such as sodium dodecylbenzenesulfonate and the sodium salts of alkylnaphthalenesulfonic acids, fatty alcohol sulfates such as the sodium salts of monoesters of sulfuric acid with n aliphatic alcohols containing 8 18 carbon atoms, long chain quaternary ammonium compounds, sodium salts of petroleum derived alkylsulfonic acids, polethylene sorbitan monooleate, alkylaryl polyether alcohols, water soluble lignin sulfonate salts, alkalicasein compositions, long chain alcohols usually containing 10 18 carbon atoms, and condensation products of ethylene oxide with fatty acids, alkylphenols and marcaptans. PREPARATION OF THE SAFENING AGENTS The 2,4 disbustituted 5 thiazolecarboxylic acids and derivatives of the foregoing formula may be prepared generally utilizing one of two procedures. The first method encompasses the preparation of 2 oxo 2,3 dihydro 4 substituted 5 thiazolecarboxylates by reacting portions of aminoacrylates and chlorocarbonylsulfenyl chloride. Crystallization of the resulting mixture from hexane yields the appropriate 2 oxo 2, 3 dihydro 4 substituted 5 thiazolecar boxylate which may be converted to the appropriate 2 chloro4 substituted 5 thiazolecarboxylate by reaction with excess phosphorus oxychloride. Excess phosphorus oxychloride is removed under reduced pressure and the residue poured into ice water.Extraction with ether and washing with 5 sodium hydroxide results in the 2 chloro 4 substituted 5thiazole carboxylate. For purposes of clarification, this method is summarized by the following scheme EMI28.1 aminoacrylates may be prepared according to known procedures such as that specified in Lutz et al, Journal ofHeterocvclic Chemistry, Volume 9, Page 513 1972 or they may be prepared by mixing 0.5 moles of ethyl acetoacetate or methyl acetoacetate in 200 ml. of methnol and 100 ml. of saturated sodium acetate and passing through the appropriate nitrile perfluorinated if R is to be perfluorinated for several hours. The reaction mixture is poured into ice water and the organic layer extracted with ether. The ether solution is dried and concentrated and the residue distilled. A mixture of about 0.1 mole of said residue and 50 ml. of 3U ammonium hydroxide or sodium hydroxide is stirred for a long period. The reaction mixture is extracted with methylene chloride and the methylene chloride extracts dried and concentrated. Fractional distillation of the residue results in the aminoacrylate. Although this invention has been described with respect to specific modifications, the details thereof are not to be construed as limitations, for it will be apparent that various equivalents, changes and modifications may be resorted to without departing from the spirit and scope thereof and it is understood that such equivalent embodiments are intended to be included herein.