# Denture adhesive composition.

## Abstract
An improved hydrophilic denture adhesive containing an adhesive polymeric fraction comprising sodium carboxy methylcellulose and poly ethylene oxide in a hydrophilic vehicle comprising certain polyethylene glycols and, as an optional component in certain forms of the subject adhe sives, glycerin, for enhancing pharmaceutical elegance of the final product.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A denture adhesive composition comprising a substantially anhydrous mixture of a from about 15 to about 55 percent w w sodium carboxymethylcellulose and poly ethylene oxide homopoly mer in a weight ratio of from about 6 1 to about 1 6, respectively and b from about 45 to about 85 percent w w of a polyethylene glycol fraction comprising one or more polyethylene glycols each having a molecular weight of from 200 to 20,000 and said fraction having a viscosity of from about 44 to about 25,600 centipoises at about 600C. 2. A denture adhesive composition comprising a substantially anhydrous mixture of a from about 24 to about 50 percent w w sodium carboxymethylcellulose and poly ethylene oxide homopoly mer in a weight ratio of from about 2 1 to about 3.5 1 respectively and b from about 50 to about 76 percent w w of a polyethylene glycol fraction comprising one or more polyethylene glycols each having a molecular weight of from about 200 to 20,000 and said fraction having a viscosity of from about 44 to about 2,500 centipoises at about 60 C. 3. A denture adhesive composition comprising a substantially anhydrous mixture of a from about 32 to about 42.5 percent w w sodium carboxymethylcellulose and poly ethylene oxide homopoly mer in a weight ratio of from about 2 1 to about 3 1, respectively and b from about 57.5 to about 68 percent w w of a polyethylene glycol fraction comprising one or more polyethylene glycols each having a molecular weight of from 200 to 20,000 and said fraction having a viscosity of from about 44 to about 2,500 centipoises at about 609C. 4. A denture adhesive composition comprising a substantially anhydrous mixture of a from about 15 to about 55 percent w w sodium carboxymethylcellulose and poly ethylene oxide homopolymer in a weight ratio of from about 2 1 to about 3.5 1, respectively and b from about 45 to about 85 percent w w of a polyethylene glycol fraction comprising one or more polyethylene glycols each having a molecular weight of from 200 to 20,000 and said fraction having a viscosity of from about 44 to about 300 centipoises at about 60 C. 5. The composition of claim 4 wherein said polyethylene glycol fraction comprises a mixture of PEG 400 and PEG 8000 in a weight ratio of from about 9 1 to about 33 1, respectively. 6. The composition of claim 4 wherein said polyethylene glycol fraction comprises a mixture of PEG 600 and PEG 8000 in a weight ratio of from about 9 1 to about 33 1, respectively. 7. The composition of claim 4 wherein up to about one half of said polyethylene glycol fraction is substituted with glycerin. 8. A denture adhesive composition comprising a substantially anhydrous mixture of a from about 15 to about 55 percent w w of sodium carboxymethylcellulose and poly ethylene oxide homopolymer in a weight ratio of from about 2 1 to about 3.5 1, respectively b up to about 25 percent w w of glycerin and c substantially the remainder of a polyethylene glycol fraction comprising one or more polyethylene glycols each having a molecular weight of from 200 to 20,000 and said fraction having a viscosity of from about 44 to about 300 centipoises at about 600 C. 9. The composition of claim 8 wherein said polyethylene glycol fraction comprises a mixture of PEG 400 and PEG 8000 in a weight ratio of from about 9 1 to about 33 1, respectively. 10. The composition of claim 8 wherein said polyethylene glycol fraction comprises a mixture of PEG 600 and PEG 8000 in.a weight ratio of from about 9 1 to about 33 1, respectively. 11. The composition of claim 8 wherein b comprises from about 5 to about 15 percent w w of said glycerin. 12. The composition of claim 8 wherein b comprises about 10 percent w w of said glycerin. 13. A denture adhesive composition comprising a substantially anhydrous mixture of a from about 24 to about 50 percent w w of sodium carboxymethylcellulose and poly ethylene oxide homopolymer in a weight ratio of from about 2 1 to about 3.5 1, respectively b from about 5 to about 15 percent w w of glycerin and c substantially the remainder of a polyethylene glycol fraction comprising a mixture of PEG 400 and PEG 8000 in a weight ratio of from about 9 1 to about 33 1 respectively. 14. The composition of claim 13 wherein a com prises about 32 percent w w of sodium carboxymethyl cellulose and poly ethylene oxide homopolymer in a weight ratio of from about 2 1 to about 3 1, respec tively. 15. The composition of claim 13 wherein a com prises about 42.5 percent w w of sodium carboxymethyl cellulose and poly ethylene oxide homopolymer in a weight ratio of from about 2 1 to about 3 1, respec tively. 16. A denture adhesive composition comprising a substantially anhydrous mixture of a about 32 percent w w of sodium carboxymethyl cellulose and poly ethylene oxide homopolymer in a weight ratio of about 3 1, respectively b about 10 percent w w glycerin c up to about 0.5 percent w w of flavoring and coloring agents and d substantially the remainder of a polyethylene glycol fraction comprising a mixture of PEG 400 and PEG 8000 in a weight ratio of from about 9 1 to about 33 1 respectively. 17. A denture adhesive composition comprising a about 24 w w of sodium carboxymethylcellulose b about 8 w w of poly ethylene oxide hompolymer c about 55.25 w w of polyethylene glycol 400 d about 2.3 w w of polyethylene glycol 8000 e about 10 w w of glycerin and f about 0.45 w w of flavoring and coloring agents. 18. A denture adhesive composition comprising a about 31.9 w w of sodium carboxymethylcellulose b about 10.6 w w of poly ethylene oxide homopolymer c about 44.4 w w of polyethylene glycol 600 d about 2.88 w w of polyethylene glycol 8000 e about 10.0 w w of glycerin and f about 0.3 w w of flavoring and coloring agents. 19. A denture adhesive composition in powder form comprising a about 24 30 w w of sodium carboxymethylcellulose b about 8 10 w w of poly ethylene oxide homopolymer and c about 60 68 w w of polyethylene glycol 8000.

## Description
Denture Adhesive Composition II SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION A highly effective hydrophilic denture adhesive composition is provided comprising a substantially anhydrous mixture of, as one essential component, a polymeric adhesive comprising from about 15 to about 55 percent by weight of the total composition i.e. w w of sodium carboxymethylcellulose and ethylene oxide homopolymer in a weight ratio of from about 6 1 to about 1 6, respectively, and, as another essential component, a hydrophilic vehicle comprising from about 45 to about 85 percent w w of a polyethylene glycol fraction with average viscosity of from about 4 to about 25,600 centi poises at about 60 C. Various forms of the subject compositions are available, for example, liquids, creams and powders.Optionally, up to about one half of the polyethylene glycol fraction may be substituted with glycerin in the non powder forms of the subject compositions. The denture adhesive composition may also have present colorants, flavoring agents, odorants, sweeteners and other additives in amounts generally employed for their respective intended purposes. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Denture adhesive cream formulations have heretofore been comprised mainly of natural or synthetic polymeric adhesives suspended in an anhydrous oleagenous vehicle system generally consisting of mineral oil and or petrolatum. These hydrophobic formulations have viscosities ranging from moderately thick to very thick making them difficult to squeeze out evenly and fluidly from the generally employed collapsible tubes or containers. However, this thickness range is necessary to prevent syneresis i.e., phase separation from occurring due to the solid adhesive particles being only suspended in the hydrophobic vehicle. More recently, liquid denture adhesives have been reported containing sodium carboxymethylcellulose and ethylene oxide homopolymer as the solid adhesives suspended in mineral oil e.g. see U.S. Pat Appln.S.N. 140,462 . Examples of such hydrophobic denture adhesives are the products commercially available from Block Drug Company, Inc. in the United States under the trademark Dentrol and in West Germany under the trademark Cedenta , which are believed to contain about 41 45 w w of sodium carboxymethylcellu lose and ethylene oxide homopolymer in a mineral oil base. However, upon standing, considerable phase separation occurs thus requiring a shake well indication on the container. Furthermore, whereas such formulations may be effective in securing dentures quickly within the oral cavity, it may be necessary to apply more than one application per day to obtain sufficient adhesion throughout the day, depending on the fit of the denture and the psychological need of the denture wearer.Such multiple applications are inconvenient and at times impractical or impossible and, therefore, these heretofore known denture adhesive liquids are not totally acceptable and in some cases undesirable. Whereas these conventional types of denture adhesive creams and liquids have provided good stabilizing hold properties to denture wearers, some organoleptic negatives have also been perceived with these products. Some of these commonly perceived negatives are, for example, unpleasant mouth feel, bad taste, grittiness, oily sensation in the mouth and difficulty of application and removal from dentures. Another disadvantage is that the salivary fluids have to penetrate a hydrophobic vehicle in order to reach and hydrate the adhesive system. This hydrophobic barrier may cause a time lag before the adhesive is hydrated and starts to work. Due to such slowed rate of hydration of adhesive components, there results a lack of immediate denture hold. It has therefore been desirable to provide a denture adhesive of superior adherent properties over prolonged periods of time. Such is accomplished with the denture adhesive compositions herein described, a unique combination of an adhesive gum system in a novel hydrophilic vehicle system which eliminates many of the aforementioned disadvantages found with denture adhesives having conventional oleagenous vehicle systems. For example, the hydrophilicity of this unique combination facilitates the penetration of the saliva to the adhesive gum system, thereby allowing quicker hydration, and, therefore, quicker hold. Test results hereinafter demonstrate the stronger hold of the subject compositions. Furthermore, they are available in forms with variable consistencies, for example, liquids, creams and powders. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to a hydrophilic denture adhesive composition which, when in contact with saliva, hydrates within the oral cavity to provide superior adherent properties. The composition comprises two essential components. The first is a polymeric adhesive system comprising from about 15 to about 55 percent w w of sodium carboxymethylcellulose and ethylene oxide homopolymer in a weight ratio of from about 6 1 to about 1 6, respectively. The second is a hydrophilic vehicle comprising from about 45 to about 85 percent w w of a polyethylene glycol fraction with average viscosity of from about 44 to about 25,600 centipoises when measured at about 600 C, generally 60 2 C. With regard to the polymeric adhesive component, the sodium carboxymethylcellulose and the ethylene oxide homopolymer constituents are well known and commercially available. Both constituents are powders which, when moistened, become hydratez andb v L tacky or gummy in consistency with adhesive characteristics. The sodium carboxymethylcellulose gums employed in this invention are water soluble, anionic, long chain polymers, derived from cellulose. Properties vary with the average number of carboxy methyl groups that are substituted per anhydroglucose unit in each cellulose molecule. This property is generally referred to as the degree of substitution , with the maximum substitution possible designated as 3.0 since there are just three hydroxy groups capable of reaction in each anhydroglucose unit. For the practice of this invention, it has been found that one or more such cellulose gums having a degree of substitution of from about 0.4 to about 1.2 is suitable. The viscosity of a 1 percent solution of the gum, measured at 250C, should be in the range of from about 400 to 4,500, preferably 1,500 to 2,500 centipoises. Sodium carboxymethylcellulose gums of this type are more fully described in Chemical and PhysicalProperties Cellulose Gum, 1978, published by Hercules, Incorporated, Coatings and Specialty ProductsDepartment, 910 Market Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19899. As examples of commercially available sodium carboxymethylcellulose gums suitable for use in this invention there may be mentioned those sold by Hercules, Incorporated, Wilmington, Delaware, as types 4H1, 7H, 9H4, 7H3S, 7HOF and 7H4. Type 7H3S is preferred for use in this invention. The ethylene oxide homopolymers employed in the compositions of the invention are water soluble nonionic poly ethylene oxide homopolymers having molecular weights of from about 100,000 to about 5,000,000.The polymers have the structure fO CH2CH2tn wherein n represents the degree of polymerization and has a value of from about 2,000 to about 100,000. These polymers are white powders. Poly ethylene oxide homopolymers of this type are more fully described in Polyox , 1978, published byUnion Carbide Corporation, 270 Park Avenue, New York,New York 10017, as Technical Bulletin F 44029B. As examples of commercially available powdered poly ethylene oxide homopolymers suitable for use in this invention there may be mentioned those polymers sold by Union Carbide Corporation under the trademarkPOLYOX as grades WSR N 10, WSR N 80, WSR N 750, WSRN 3000, WSR 205, WSR 1105 and WSR 301. Preferred for use in this invention is POLYOX WSR 301 homopolymer. In the compositions of this invention, the polymeric adhesive component comprises from about 15 to about 55 percent w w, preferably from about 24 to about 50 percent w w, and most preferably from about 32 to about 42.5 percent w w of sodium carboxymethylcellulose and ethylene oxide homopolymer in a weight ratio of from about 6 1 to about 1 6, respectively. The preferred compositions comprise about 24 50 percent w w of the two adhesive ingredients and their weight ratio is about 2 1 to about 3.5 1, respectively. In the most preferred embodiments, about 32 to about 42.5 percent w w of the two ingredients are employed in a respective weight ratio of about 2 1 to about 3 1. With regard to the hydrophilic.vehicle component, the polyethylene glycols suitable for use in the compositions of the invention are also well known and commercially available, for example, those marketed by UnionCarbide Corporation under its trademark Carbowax . Polyethylene glycols are polymers of ethylene oxide with the generalized formula HOCH2 CH2OCH2 nCH2OH wherein n represents the average number of oxyethylene groups. These polyethylene glycols, which are desig the abbreviation PEG and nated by a number that represents the average molecular weight, range from clear viscous liquids at room temperature e.g., PEGs 200, 300, 400 and 600 to soft solids e.g., PEGs 1000 and 1450 to waxy solids available in the form of flakes or powders e.g., PEGs 3350 and 8000 to granular solids e.g., PEG 14,000 . All these polymers dissolve in water to form clear solutions and this water solubility feature imparts a hydrophilic characteristic to the compositions of this invention. The subject compositions comprise from about 45 to about 85 percent w w, preferably from about 50 to about 76 percent w w, and most preferably from about 57.5 to about 68 percent w w, of a polyethylene glycol PEG fraction with an average viscosity when measured at about 60 C of from about 44 to about 25,600 centipoises cps , preferably from about 44 to about 2,500 cps, and most preferably from about 44 to about 300 cps. Either individual polyethylene glycols or blends of two or more polyethylene glycols within this viscosity range may be utilized. For example, and without being limited thereto, a blend of liquid PEG 400 or PEG 600 and solid PEG 8000 in a respective weight ratio of from about 9 1 to about 33 1, has been found particularly suitable for the lotion like liquids and soft creams of this invention. The data presented in following Table 1 illustrates the variety of final product consistencies obtainable according to this invention by varying the make up of the PEG fraction in a particular formulation. In Example ll A hereafter, a lotion liquid formulation is described which contains 32 w w adhesives, 10 w w glycerin and 57.549 PEGs, the latter made up of PEG 400 and PEG 8000 in a 24 1 ratio, respectively.By substituting an equivalent amount of total PEG but in the indicated varying ratios, the following results are obtained Table 1Vehicle Ratio PEG Fraction PEG 400 Viscosity Product PEG 8000 cps mp 60 C Consistency 100 0 56 liquid 98 2 49 1 44 liquid 97 3 32.3 1 61 liquid lotion 94 6 19 1 72 liquid lotion 92 8 11.5 1 94 liquid lotion 90 10 9 1 94 soft cream 80 20 4 1 170 cream 70 30 2.3 1 315 thick cream 60 40 1.5 1 600 very thick cream 0 100 PEG 8000 2,500 powder 0 100 PEG 14000 25,600 powder The 10 w w glycerin replaced by an equal amount of PEG. Determined on a Brookfield RVT Viscometer. By blending members of the PEG series, different viscosities within the defined range may be obtained, as desired. For example, by utilizing increasing amounts of higher molecular weight PEGs, i.e. more solids than liquids, the resultant viscosity of the polyethylene glycol fraction will also increase assuming other ingredients in the denture adhesive composition are maintained constant so that one can readily obtain embodiments of the subject compositions ranging in consistency from viscous liquids to creams to powders. For example, with about 32 percent w w of the polymeric adhesive and 10 percent w w of glycerin, a polyethylene glycol fraction having a viscosity. at about 60eC of about 44 95 cps affords a final product with a liquid lotion to soft cream consistency whereas a polyethylene glycol fraction having a viscosity of about 100 300 cps affords a cream type of final product whereas a polyethylene glycol fraction above 300 affords a thick creamy product and whereas a polyethylene glycol fraction having a very high viscosity of about 2500 25,600.cps affords a final product in powder form.This ability to adjust the fluidity of the final product is a particularly advantageous feature of the invention since it affords commercialization of final product forms with consumer acceptable consistencies such as i liquids and soft creams, which are readily extrudable from appropriate containers, for example, pump action bottles, squeezable tubes and the like, ii thicker creams and iii powders, all of which forms are suitable for easy application to dentures. With regard to the liquid and cream compositions of this invention, one particular ingredient that is preferred and recommended as a substitute for part of the polyethylene glycol fraction is glycerin which has a known soothing effect on oral gum tissue and also affords a pleasant mouth feel and sweetening taste to the finished composition. Due to its humectant character, glycerin also contributes to the hydrophilicity of the finished composition, thereby allowing quicker hydration on contact with moisture or saliva. Thus, although glycerin is not an essential component of the hydrophilic vehicle or of the finished composition, it does enhance the latter s esthetic appearance and acceptability. It has been found that a significant amount of glycerin can be substituted for the polyethylene glycol fraction, for example, up to about one half of the latter may be so substituted without any significant detriment to the overall adhesive ability of the finished composition.However, due to the increased cost incurred with high amounts of the relatively expensive glycerin, about 258 w w of glycerin is recommended as the upper limit with about 5 to about 15 percent w w being preferred and about 10 percent w w most preferred. Any suitable flavoring agent, colorant, odorant, natural or synthetic sweetener, deodorant, antimicrobial agent, tissue healing agent or other optional ingredient generally employed as an additive in denture adhesives may be utilized in the compositions of this invention, if so desired, so long as such addition is not detrimental to the overall adhesive ability of the compositions. Preferably, up to about 1.0 w w of such additives may be utilized. Typical of the compositions encompassed in the present invention are the formulations exemplified in Table 2. The symbol w w indicates the weight of each ingredient based on the total weight of the particular composition. Table 2. Formulation Examples in w w Ex. 1 Ex. 2 Ex. 3 Ex. 4Polymeric Adhesive Na CMC 24.00 22.50 12.00 18.00 Polyox 8.00 9.00 4.00 6.00 3Hydrophilic Vehicle PEG 400 62.96 59.30 67.65 60.443 PEG 8000 4.739 3.79 5.88 5.256Glycerin 0.00 5.00 10.00 10.00Additives 4 Coloring Agent 5 0.001 0.01 0.02 0.001 Flavoring Agent 0.30 0.40 0.45 0.30Total w w 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 ... Table 2 continued ... Ex. 5 Ex. 6 Ex. 7 Ex. 8 Ex. 9 Ex. 10 24.50 24.00 40.50 30.00 12.00 40.50 7.00 8.00 13.50 10.00 4.00 13.50 49.86 38.429 34.47 47.06 76.98 44.20 3.18 4.27 1.07 2.48 6.70 1.37 15.00 25.00 10.00 10.00 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.001 0.01 0.01 0.02 0.03 0.45 0.30 0.45 0.45 0.30 0.40 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 ...1. Sodium carboxymethylcellulose type 7H3S.2. Poly ethylene oxide homopolymer type WSR 3016 3. Each viscosity between 44 and 300 cps. mp 60 2 C. 4. FD Red No. 3.5. Premix of mint oils. The compositions of this invention can be produced by standard compounding techniques. For example, the liquid and cream compositions are readily prepared by heating with stirring the polyethylene glycol fraction to about 65 700C at which temperature any solid or semisolid polyethylene glycols which may be present are liquified and the fraction has a syrupy gel like consistency. The sodium carboxymethylcellulose and poly ethylene oxide homopolymer constituents of the polymeric adhesive component are mixed together thoroughly and added to the polyethylene glycol fraction, slightly cooled to about 50 60 C, with constant stirring to obtain a uniform adhesive vehicle mixture. Any optional additives such as flavor, color and the like may then be incorporated into the adhesive vehicle mixture.It is recommended, however, that the adhesive vehicle mixture be cooled to about or slightly below 400C before incorporation of any such additives of a volatile character, for example, aromatic flavors, in order to preserve their characteristic essences. When glycerin is to be included in the final product, it is advantageously added to and mixed into the slightly cooled about 50 60eC polyethylene glycol fraction prior to admixture with the polymeric adhesive component. The glycerin addition step may also be utilized as a way of carrying any compatible optional additive such as a sweetener, colorant and the like into the final product by simply mixing or dissolving the desired additive in the glycerin beforehand. The powder compositions of this invention are readily obtained by simple admixture of the two powder constituents, Na CMC and Polyox, commat of the polymeric adhe sive component with the powder PEG fraction of the hydrophilic vehicle component. The preferred polyethylene glycol for making the powder compositions isPEG 8000 alone. It is recommended that granular forms of polyethylene glycol, such as PEG 14,000, be pulverized to a fine powder prior to admixture with the polymeric adhesive powders. The denture adhesive compositions of this invention possess superior and unexpected adhesion cohesion properties as measured by the Texturometer evaluation test. The term Texturometer is a trademark for an instrument manufactured and sold by C. W. BrabenderInstruments, Inc. of Hackensack, N.J. which enables a quantitative measurement of textural parameters of products. The instrument mechanically simulates the chewing motions of the human jaws. A plunger is driven through the test sample approx. 3 ml held in a sample holder under which there is a strain gauge hooked up to a high speed chart recorder. The instrument draws force time curves which are indicative of the cohesive adhesive ability of the test sample. The plunger is driven through the test sample at the rate of 12 times per minute and the chart paper speed is 1500 mm per minute. The test sample is prepared by uniformly mixing the ptoduct to be tested with distilled water in a small mortar and pestle at a ratio of one part by weight of product to four parts by weight of water.The areas under the cohesion and adhesion parts of the force time curves are measured and these areas are a measure of the cohesive adhesive abilities of the hydrated adhesive formulation, i.e., the laxer the areas, the greater such abilities. After the initial measurement, the test sample is kept undisturbed in a tightly covered petri dish to prevent evaporation for 5 hours at 25 C and then retested. Accordingly, inTables 3 6 hereafter, the tabulated numbers indicating the observed Texturometric evaluations represent areas under the cohesion adhesion Texturometric curves. Examples of especially preferred and presently considered best mode denture adhesive compositions of this invention, in liquid lotion form, are obtained from the following formulations Example 11 A B Ingredient w w w wSodium carboxymethylcellulose 24.0 31.875 CMC 7H3S Poly ethylene oxide homopolymer 8.0 10.625 Polyox WSR 301 PEG 400 55.247 PEG 600 44.354 PEG 8000 2.302 2.831 Glycerin 10.0 10.0 FD Red 3 0.001 0.001 Flavor mint 0.45 0.314 In a stainless steel vessel, add the PEG 400 Example ll A or the PEG 600 Example ll B and PEG 8000 and mix while heating to a temperature of about 650 C. Stir well using a lightnin stirrer. After the PEG mixture is dissolved, the heat is removed and the mixture transferred to a kitchen aid mixer for continued mixing at medium speed for 15 minutes recorded temperature 56 C . In a separate stainless steel vessel, the dye is added to the glycerin and mixed using a lightnin stirrer until dye is completely dissolved throughout the glycerin about 10 mins. . The dye gly rin solution is added to the PEG mixture and admixed for about 5 minutes recorded temperature 48 C .The CMC and Polyox powders are mixed together and added to the dye glycerin PEG batch in the kitchen aid mixer with stirring. Mixing is continued for about 10 minutes recorded temperature 42 C . The batch is allowed to cool to 40 C or slightly below and then the flavor is added and intimately mixed in for about 30 minutes. The resultant denture adhesive composition is a pink viscous material which turns into a smooth soft mass upon wetting and mixing with water or saliva. The unexpected superiority of the compositions of the present invention is demonstrated by the Texturometer evaluation data set forth in Table 3 wherein the compositions of Examples 4 and ll A are tested and com pared with a conventional commercial product available under the brand name Dentrol which has the same adhesive ingredients but in a hydrophobic mineral oil vehicle rather than the hydrophilic PEG vehicle of this invention. The adhesive cohesive properties of the tested hydrated products are evaluated initially and again after 5 hours. Table 3. Texturometric Evaluations COHESION ADHESION sq. mm. sq. mm. Test After After Product Initial 5 Hours Initial 5 Hours Dentrol commat 279 568 71 37 Ex. 4 418 495 235 305Ex. ll A 493 989 243 588 Numbers represent areas under cohesion adhesionTexturometric curves. The data listed in Table 3 shows clearly the unexpected and superior nature of the cohesion and adhesion parameters obtained with compositions of this invention. Particularly noteworthy is the marked increase in both cohesion and adhesion abilities of the subject compositions after 5 hours. In contrast, the measured adhesion of the comparative commercial product decreased significantly, almost 50 after 5 hours.This marked increase in both cohesion and adhesion after keeping for 5 hours, characteristic of the subject compositions, is even more surprising since it might be expected that with passing of time the water of hydration, considering the hydrophilicity of the subject compositions, might weaken rather than strengthen the structure of such compositions. The superiority of the preferred composition of Example ll A is especially demonstrated by an almost two fold increase in its cohesive ability both initially and after 5 hours over the comparative commercial product and a three fold increase initially and a remarkable sixteen fold increase after 5 hours in its adhesive ability. In following table 4, the effect of increasing the adhesive level from 12 to 508 w w while keeping the NaCMC to Polyox ratio constant at 3 1 in the formulation of Example ll A is illustrated. In each instance, the total PEG fraction is adjusted accordingly although the 24 1 ratio of PEG 400 55.247 w w to PEG 8000 2.302 w w is maintained constant. Also illustrated in Table 4 is the effect of varying the Na CMC to Polyox ratio from 6 1 to 1 6 in the formulation of Example ll A while keeping the total adhesive level constant at 32 w w.The commercial product Dentrol is also compared. Table 4. Texturometric Evaluations Test COHESION ADHESION Product sq. mm. sq. mm. Na CMC Po1yox0 After 5 After 5 w w Ratio Initial Hours Initial Hours 12 3 1 56 75 15 29 24 418 495 235 305 32 493 989 243 588 40 n 1064 1906 493 1222 42 5 869 1845 468 1390 50 n 1090 2757 519 1305 32 6 1 729 1531 390 782 4.5 1 802 1533 397 659 n 3 1 493 989 243 588 1.5 1 592 1206 356 666 n 1 1 680 1230 458 551 1 2 342 900 223 460 n 1 3 298 751 164 ,409 n 1 6 295 599 163 352 Dentrol 279 568 71 37 unacceptable As the data illustrates, increasing the adhesive concentration, from the unacceptable 12 w w level to 50 w w increases product performance while maintaining the Na CMC to Polyox ratio constant 3 1 . A similar pattern is observed when the ratio is maintained at 2 1. Superior product performance is also observed when the adhesive concentration is maintained constant 32 w w and the Na CMC to Polyox ratio is varied from 6 1 to 1 6. Within this range, optimum performance is observed to be within 6 1 to 1 2. As noted heretofore, the use of glycerin in the liquid and cream denture adhesives of this invention is optional. While preferred for purposes of enhancing the pharmaceutical elegance of the final product, the following Texturometer evaluation data in Table 5 demonstrates the remarkable effectiveness of the subject compositions relative to their cohesion and adhesion abilities either without glycerin as inExample 1, with 10 w w glycerin as in Example 11 A and with 25 w w glycerin as in Example 6. It should be noted that the excellent results obtained with 258 w w glycerin clearly indicate that even more glycerin could be utilized as part of the vehicular polyethylene glycol fraction, up to about one half of said fraction being advantageously so employed. Table 5. Texturometric Evaluations COHESION ADHESION sq. mm. sq. mm. Test w w After AfterProduct Glycerin Initial 5 Hours Initial 5 HoursEx. 1 0 825 1163 356 682Ex. ll A 10 493 989 243 588Ex. 6 25 685 1523 358 699 The following two formulations illustrate preferred embodiments of the subject compositions in powder form Example 12 Example 13Ingredient 32 Adhesive 40 AdhesiveNa CMC 7H3S ffi 24 w w 30 w wPolyox WSR 301 8 w w 10 w wPEG 8000 powder 68 w w 60 w w 100 w w 100 w w The Texturometric data obtained from these two dental adhesive powders showed that both formulations 32 and 40 adhesive components afforded outstanding cohesion adhesion properties, which properties were equal to or greater than those shown for the preferred liquid lotion formulation of Example 11 A. The comparative data are shown in Table 6 Table 6. Texturometric Evaluations COHESION ADHESION sq. mm. sq. mm. After AfterTest Product Initial 5 Hrs.Initial 5 Hours Ex. ll A 493 989 243 588 Ex. 12 844 1225 468 591 Ex. 13 1376 2155 663 1227 The present invention thus provides a superior denture adhesive composition in powder form comprising the following formulation a about 24 30 w w of sodium carboxymethylcellulose, b about 8 10 w w of poly ethylene oxide homopolymer and c about 60 68 w w of polyethylene glycol 8000. The foregoing in vitro Texturometric evaluation data tabulated in Tables 3, 4, 5 and 6 illustrate the effectiveness of the denture adhesive compositions of this invention. When in contact with moistened denture plates, gums and saliva, the subject compositions hydrate within the oral cavity to provide superior denture stabilizing properties not possessed by heretofore known denture adhesives, the latter generally having hydrophobic vehicles for the adhesive components rather than hydrophilic vehicles as with the subject compositions. In general, furthermore, the subject compositions will form a clear gel like mass upon mixing with water or saliva whereas conventional products with hydrophobic vehicles form an opaque, very oily mass. Esthetically, the clear gel like mass is more acceptable to the user.