# High shear strength adhesive and method for bonding nylon to nylon.

## Abstract
An adhesive and method for providing a high shear strength bond of nylon to nylon. The bond exhibits a shear tensile strength of greater than 7100 p.s.i. The adhesive is a solution of 2.0 to 10 , v v, stabilized sulfur trioxide in methylene chloride.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A high shear strength adhesive for bonding nylon to nylon comprising a solution of from 2.0 to 10.0 , v v, stabilized SO3 in methylene chloride, said adhesive being characterized by providing a bonded joint which exhibits a shear tensile strength of greater than 7100 p.s.i. 2. The high shear strength adhesive of Claim 1 wherein the solution contains 4.0 , v v, stabilizedS03 in methylene chloride. 3. In a method for bonding one nylon element to another nylon element wherein at least one surface of one of the nylon elements is treated with sulfur trioxide and the treated surface of the one nylon element pressed against one of the surfaces of the other nylon element, the improvement wherein the shear tensile strength of the bonded elements is greatly increased to more than 7100 p.s.i. , comprising, ensuring that the surfaces of the nylon elements to be bonded are dry, applying to at least one of said dry surfaces of one nylon element a solution containing from 2.0 to 10.0 , v v, of stabilized S03 in methylene chloride, pressing the S03 treated surface of the one nylon element to a dry surface of a second nylon element to bond the two elements, applying a uniform pressure to the bonded elements, and then air curing the bonded elements. 4. The method of Claim 3 wherein a uniform pressure of ten p.s.i. is applied for about three hours at a temperature of from 22 28 C to the bonded nylon elements and then the bonded elements air cured at from 220 280C for about 48 hours. 5. A process for preparing a laminate of nylon comprising, a ensuring that the nylon elements to be laminated are dry b applying to at least one of the mating surfaces of the nylon to be laminated a solution of from 2.0 to 10.0 , v v, stabilized S03 in methylene chloride c pressing the mating surfaces together in the form of a laminate d applying to said laminated surfaces a uniform pressure of about 10 p.s.i. for about three minutes at a temperature of 22 ta 28 C and e air curing said laminate at aout 220 to 28 C for about 48 hours, said laminate then having a tensile strength greater. than 7100 p.s.i. 6. The laminate of nylon prepared by the process of Claim 5.

## Description
High shear strength adhesive and method for bonding nylon to nylon. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 1. Field of the Invention This invention relates to a high shear strength adhesive for bonding nylon to nylon. 2. Description of the Prior Art The present state of the art for bonding nylon to nylon is described in a report by E.M. Lacey andLeo Samson entitled 1Bonding Agents for Zytel, E. I. DuPont de Nemours Co., Inc., Plastics Depaxtment, Technical Services Laboratory, TR f193, April 25, 1975. Procedures using aqueous phenol, resorcinol ethanol, and calcium chloride eth anol zytel agents are described for bonding nylon to nylonCuring times of several hours to several days are required to attain maximum strength. In some cases, high temperatures are also necessary. The maximum shear tensile strengths obtained were 2400 p.s.i. BRIEF SUMi lARY OF THE INVENTION An object of this invention is to provide a high strength adhesive for tonding nylon to nylon. Another object of this invention is to provide a method of bonding one nylon element to another nylon element in which the shear tensile strength of the bonded elements is greater than 7100 p.s.i. Still another object is to provide a method of preparing a laminate of nylon which has a tensile strength of greater than 7100 p. 6. i. According to this invention, the above objects are accomplished by a high shear strength adhesive for bonding nylon to nylon characterized by its ability to provide a bond which exhibits a shear tensile strength of greater than 7100 p.s.i., by a method of using the adhesive to bond one nylon element to another nylon element, and by a method of making a laminate of nylon. The adhesive is a 2.0 to 10.0 , v v, solution of stabilized SO3 in methylene chloride. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION We discovered the adhesive of the present invention while treating cotton nylon blend fabric for other purposes with a solution of isopropenyl stearate and stabilized sulfur trioxide in methylene chloride.Instead of obtaining the results we expected, the fabric seemed to partially dissolve and form a sticky mass. When we tried the same experiment in the absence of isopropenyl stearate, we observed the same result. Upon further experimentation we found that the adhesive bonds nylon to nylon with the resulting bonded joint having a much higher shear tensile strength than that of untreated nylon. Surprisingly, and quite unexpectedly, we found that the bonded joint exhibited a shear tensile strength of greater than 7100 p.s.i. We also found that to obtain a practical useful bond the amount of stabilized sulfur trioxide can be varied from 2.0 to 10.0 in methylene chloride, v v. However, we also found that for the purposes of our invention the amount of stabilized sulfur trioxide must be within the above limits. When the amount of S03 was lower than 2.0 , we were not able to obtain enough adhesion to bond the nylon surfaces to each other even when we applied pressure.When we used solutions containing more than 10.0 S03, the bonded surfaces became very brittle and broke easily when flexed even moderately. We found that a solution of 4.0 , v v, stabilized SO3 in CH2C12 gave the best results consequently, our preferred adhesive is one having such a concentration. The solution of stabilized S03, 2.0 to 10,0, v v, in methylene chloride can be applied to the surfaces to be bonded with a brush or a cotton swab or by any other suitable means. For best results, the surfaces to be bonded should be cleaned thoroughly prior to applying the adhesive of this invention The surfaces of the nylon elements to be bonded must also be dry to ensure that the desired bond is obtained. Sulfur trioxide is stabilized against polymerization to solids. by addition of a small quantity as low as 0.1 of various compounds especially derivatives of boron, phosphorus, or sulfur as documents in Sulfonation and Related Reactions Everett E. Gilbert,Allied Chemical Corp., N.J., Interscience Publishers, 1965, pages 2 3. The small quantity of compound added acts as an inhibitor to prevent the formation of the high melting alpha form of the solid. Sulfan fromAllied Chemical Corp. was used in our experiments. Tensile strength was measured by a method essentially as described in ASTM Designation D 638 68. Since the CHZC12 is only a carrier for the S03, there is no reason why other solvents such as ClH2C CH2C1 and CCI4 cannot be used as diluents. In our experiments, the Zytel 101 strips were 1 16 thick, 6 long and 1 wide. We used about 1 on an end of each strip as a mating surface and applied adhesive, usually by painting it on, to one of the mating surfaces. The other mating surface was not treated. The mating surfaces were pressed together and then held in a vise under uniform pressure. The following examples illustrate the invention and its scope EXAMPLE 1 A solution of stabilized S03, 4.0 , v v, inCH2C12 was painted on a mating surface of a strip ofZytel 101 general purpose unlubricated basic 66 nylon which, according to The Condensed ChemcialDictionary, 6th Edition, Reinhold Publishing Corp.,N.Y,, 1961, is a nylon obtained by the condensation of hexamethylene diamine with adipic acid polyhexamethylene adipamide . The treated mating surface was pressed together with the mating surface of an untreated strip of Zytel 101 and then held in a vise under a uniform pressure of about 10 p.s.i. for about three minutes at an ambient room temperature of about 22 to 280C and air cured at the same ambient room temperature for about 48 hours.The bonded joint exhibited a shear tensile strength greaterthan 7100 p.s.i. EXAMPLE 2 Various concentrations of stabilized S03 in CH2C12, v v, were tested for their bonding properties on Zytel 101 under the same conditions, except for concentration of SO3 in CH2C12, as in Example 1. We found that concentrations greater than 10.0 and less than 2.0 stabilized S03 in CH2Cl2, v v, were not of practical use for bonding nylon to nylon. EXAMPLE 3 Solutions containing 2.0 and 4.0 respectively, on a w w basis, of 30 fuming H2504 in CH2C12 were used as bonding agents for Zytel 101 as in Example 1.Neither solution provided a bond. The joints became tacky but did not cure to bond. EXAMPLE 4 Four separate pairs of Zytel 101 strips were treated as in Example 1 except that the air curing time was varied as shown below from 3 to 31 hours. Curing time Tensile strength ours p.s.i. 3 250 14.5 325 24.0 375 31.0 350 EXAMPLE 5 A solution of thionyl chloride in CH2C12, 4 v v, was tested as a bonding agent for Zytel 101 under the conditions described in Example 1. The results were unsatisfactory because the bonded joint came apart at 235 pounds of pull. EXAMPLE 6 A solution of chlorosulfonic acid in CH2C12, 4 , v v, was tested as a bonding agent for Zytel 101 under the conditions described in Example 1. The results were unsatisfactory because one of two strips which were joined together broke in the area of adhesion at approximately 1800 p.s.i. Chlorosulfonic acid appears to make the Zytel 101 brittle and this is believed to be the reason for the break. EXAMPLE 7 A solution of thionyl chloride in CH2C12, 4 , v v, was tested as a bonding agent for Zytel 101 under the conditions described in Example 1 except that the curing time was 64.5 hours. The results were unsatisfactory because the joint separated at 123 pounds of pull. EXAMPLE 8 A solution of chlorosulfonic acid in CH2C12, 4 v v, was tested as a bonding agent for Zytel 101 under the conditions described in Example 1 except that the curing time was 64.5 hours. The results were unsatisfactory because the joint separated at only 11 pounds of pull. In this case the joint apparently did not cure properly. The invention, which provides a means of bonding nylon to nylon in which the bond has a shear tensile strength greater than that provided by other available means of adhesion, should be very useful in many industrial applications.