# Substituted phosphinates and phosphinothioates and their use for the control of weeds.

## Abstract
Novel phenoxy , phenylthio , anilino , benzyl , pyridyloxy , pyridylthio, pyridylamino , or pyridylmethylphenyl substituted phosphinates and phosphinothioates within the formula

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A compound of the formula B or D EMI50.1 wherein, R is the groupEMI50.2 R1 is hydrogen, lower alkyl or aryl W is oxygen or sulfur X is oxygen, sulfur, amino or methylene Y is hydrogen, lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, lower haloalkyl, lower haloalkoxy, halogen, cyano or nitro Z is independently selected from the values of Y t is zero, one or two Rê is lower alkyl or aryl R2 is hydrogen, lower alkyl or aryl R3 is cyano, nitro, amino or chloro R is hydrogen, OR6, SR7, or NRR8 R6 is lower alkenyl, lower alkynyl, lower haloalkenyl, lower haloalkynyl, cycloalkyl, cycioalkalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, substituted or unsubstituted benzyl, lower alkoxyalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted phenoxyalkyl, lower alkylthioalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted phenylthioalkyl, lower alkylcarbonylalkyl, lower alkylsulfonylalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted phenylsulfonylalkyl, dialkylaminoalkyl, heterocycloalkyl, heterocycloalkalkyl, lower aikoxycarbonylalkeny1, or the groupEMI51.1 R7 is lower alkenyl, lower alkynyl, aryl, or the groupEMI51.2 R8 is lower alkanyl, lower alkynyl, aryl, or the group OR12 or NHR16 orEMI51.3 W is oxygen, sulfur or amino or W R14 or W R1 is NR15R16 R10 is lower alkyl Rll is lower alkyl, or together with R10 forns a lower cycloalkyl ring RX2 is lower alkyl, lower alkenyl or lower alkynyl R13 is hydrogen, lower alkyl, lower alkoxy or lower alkylthio R14 is hydrogen, sodium, potassium, calcium, lower alkyl, lower haloalkyl, lower cyanoalkyl, lower alkoxyalkyl, lower alkenyl, lower haloalkenyl, lower alkynyl, lower alkylcarbonylalkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, benzyl, or the groupEMI52.1 R15 is hydrogen or lower alkyl R16 is hydrogen, lower alkyl cr substituted or unsub stituted phenyl and R17 is lower alkyl or the groupEMI52.2 wherein R18 is OH, O Na , lower alkyl or lower alkoxy or an inorganic or organic salt thereof, 2. A compound according to Claim 1 of the formula EMI52.3 wherein is hydrogen or chloro Z is chloro or trifluoro2 is methyl or ethyl R13 methyl R3 is nitro or cyano R2 is methyl or ethyl R is hydrogen or methyl and R14 is hydrogen, lower alkyl, benzyl, lower alkenyl or lower alkylcarbonylalkyl. 3. A compound according to Claim 2 wherein R14 is hydrogen or lower alkyl. 4 A compound according to Claim 1 of the formula EMI53.1 wherein Y is hydrogen or chloro and Z is chloro or trifluoromethyl. 5. A compounds according to Claim 4 wherein Z is trifluoromethyl. 6. A compound according to Claim 4 wherein each ofY and Z is chloro. 7. A compound according to Claim 6 wherein R2 is methyl or ethyl R3 is nitro and R1 is hydrogen or lower alkyl. g. A compound according to Claim 7 wherein R2 is methyl or ethyl R3 is nitro and RÚ is hydrogen or lower alkyl. 9. A compound according to formula D of Claim 1EMI54.1 wherein,R isEMI54.2 in which Z is chloro or trifluoromethyl is hydrogen or chloro and 2 R2 is lower alkyl of one to four carbon atoms. 10. A compound according to Claim 9 wherein Rê is methyl or ethyl and R3 is nitro. 11. A compound according to Claim 10 wherein R6 isEMI54.3 in which R13 is hydrogen or methyl and R14 is hydrogen or lower alkyl. 12. A compound according to Claim 11 wherein R is 2 chloro 4 tri fluoromethylphenyl. 13. A herbicidal composition which comprises a herbicidally effective amount of a compound of Claim 1 and a suitable carrier material. 14. A method for the control of weeds which comprises applying to the locus of said weeds a herbicidally effective amount of a compound of Claim 1.

## Description
SUBSTITUTED PHOSPHINATES AND PHOSPHI1vJOTHIO TES AND THEIR USE FOR THE CQNTROL OF WEEDS The compounds of the present invention are represented by the following formulae B and D EMI1.1 wherein, R is the groupEMI1.2 W is oxygen or sulfur and W is oxygen, sulfur or amino X is oxygen sulfur, amino or methylene Y is hydrogen, lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, lower haloalkyl, lower haloalkoxy, halogen, cyano or nitro Z is independently selected from the values of Y t is zero, one or two R1 and R2 are independently hydrogen, lower alkyl or aryl R21 is lower alkyl or aryl R3 is cyano, nitro, amino or chloro R5 is lower alkyl, OR6, SR7, or NHRS is is hydrogen, OR6, SR7, or R6 is lower halo alkenyl, lower halo alkynyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, substituted or unsubstituted benzyl, lower alkoxyalkyl, substituted or unsbustituted phenoxyalkyl, lower alkylthioalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted phenylthioalkyl, lower alkylcarbonyalkyl, lower alkylsulfonylalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted phenylsulfonylalkyl, dialkylaminoalkyl, heterocycloalkyl, heterocycloalkalkyl, or the groupEMI2.1 is lower alkenyl, lower alkynyl, aryl, or the group EMI2.2 R8 is lower alkenyl, lower alkynyl, aryl, or the group OR12 or NHR16 orEMI2.3 W1 is oxygen, sulfur or NR15R16 R10 is lower alkyl R11 is lower alkyl, or together with R10 forms a lower cycloalkyl ring R11 is lower alkyl, lower alkenyl or lower alkynyl Rl3 is hydrogen, lower alkyl, lower alkoxy or lower alkylthio Rl4 is hydrogen, Na , lower alkyl, lower haloalkyl, lower cyanoalkyl, lower alkenyl, lower haloalkenyl, lower alkynyl lower alkylcarbonyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, benzyl, or the groupEMI3.1 R15 is hydrogen or lower alkyl R16 is hydrogen, lower alkyl or substituted or unsubstituted phenyl R17 is lower alkYl or the groupEMI3.2 R18 is OH, O Na , lower alkyl or lower alkoxy and the salts thereof of an organic base or an inorganic base. The compounds of the formulae are effective herbicidal agents against grasses and broad.leaved plants. One embodiment of the present invention is shown by formula B below EMI3.3 wherein, W is oxygen, sulfur or amino and R is hydrogen, lower alkyl or aryl. Synthesis of the compounds of formula B where W oxygen, R3 No2 and R1 lower alkyl may be outlined as follows EMI4.1 In the above synthesis, the dinitrobenzene I is phosphinylated with the phosphonite II at room temperature or at refluxing temperature to give the corresponding phosphinate B following the procedure outlined by Cadogan et al., J. Chem. Soc., C 1314 1969 .The reaction can be carried out neat or in the presence of a solvent such as acetonitrile or tetrahydrofuran. To produce the compounds of formula B where R1 H, a phospinate B where R1 lower alkyl is hydrolyzed by reaction with a strong acid such as hydrochloric acid or with trimethylsilyl bromide in methylene chloride or trichloromethane. To synthesize the compounds of formula B where R aryl, a phosphinate B where R1 lower alkyl is halogenated by, for example, reaction with a compound such as thionyl chloride at reflux temperature, giving a phosphine oxide ItI XX Cl or Br .EMI5.1 The phosphine oxide or phosphinohalidate or phosphinic acid halide III is reacted at reflux temperature with an alcohol R OH whereR1 aryl in the presence of a base such as potassium carbonate and a solvent with high boiling point such as 2 butonone to give a phosphinate B where R1 aryl. The compounds of formula B where R cyano or chloro can be 10 produced by the hydrogenation of a phosphinate B to an amino compound IV , which is diazotized following the procedure described in Org. Synth. Coll. Vol. 1 514 1932 . The diazo salt V is then reacted with cuprous cyanide or cuprous chloride.EMI5.2 To make the salts corresponding to formula B , a phosphinic acid formula B where R1 H and W O is reacted with an alkali metal hydroxide such as potassium hydroxide or sodium hydroxide in water to give a compound of formula VI . EMI6.1 Phosphinothioates of the present invention whereW sulfur can be prepared by reaction of a phosphinate where W xygen with, for example, phosphorus pentasulfide at an elevated temperature, The compounds where 0 is OR6, SR7 or NHR8 may be prepared by reaction of a compound of formula III prepared as described above for compound III with an alcohol HOR6, a thiol HSR7 or an amine NH R8 at room temperature or above in the 2 presence of a solvent such as methylene chloride or tetrahydrofuran and with or without a base such as triethylamine or pyridine.EMI6.2 The The following terms, wherever used in the description herein and in the appended claims, have the meaning defined below, unless otherwise specified hereinafter. The term lower alkyl refers to an alkyl group, straight or branched, having a chains length of one to eight carbon atoms. The term lower haloalkyl refers to a lower alkyl group substituted with one to three halogen atoms. The term lower alkoxy refers to an alkoxy group, straight or branched, having a chain length of one to eight carbon atoms. The term lower haloalkoxy refers to a lower alkoxy group substituted with one to three halogen atoms. The term lower alkylene refers to an alkylene group, straight or branched, having a chain length of one to eight carbon atoms. The term lower alkenYl refers to an ethylenically unsaturated hydrocarbon group, straight or branched, having a chain length o f two to eight carbon atoms and one or two ethylenic bonds. The term lower alkynyl1 refers to an alkynyl group, straight or branched, having a chain length of two to eight carbon atoms and one or two acetylenic bonds. The term lower cycloalkyl refers to a cycloalkyl group of three to eight cyclic carbon atoms. The term aryl refers to the aryl group phenyl or naphthyl. The terms substitute2 aryl and substituted benzyl refer to an aryl group and a benzyl group respectively, substituted at one, two or three of the ring carbon atoms with a group selected from lower alkyl, lower haloalkyl, lower alkoxy, lower haloalkoxy, halogen, nitro, or cyano. The term lower alkoxyalkyl refers to a lower alkyl group substituted with a lower alkoxy group. The term lower alkylthioalkylw refers to a lower alkyl group substituted with a lower alkylthio group, straight or branched, having a chain length of one to eight carbon atoms. The term lower alkysulfonylalkyl refers to a lower alkyl group substituted with a lower alkylsulfonyl group, straight or branched, of one to eight carbon atoms. The term lower alkylcarbonylalkylw refers to a lower alkyl group substituted with a lower alkylcarbonyl group, straight or branched, of two to eight carbon atoms. The term wdialkylaminoalkyln refers to an aminoalkyl group, straight or branched, of one to eight carbon atoms wherein each of the two hydrogen atoms attached to the nitrogen atom is replaced by a lower alkyl group, as defined herein. The term phenoxyalkyl refers to a lower alkyl group substituted with phenoxy. The term phenylthioalkylw refers to a lower alkyl group substituted with phenylthio. The term phenylsulfonylalkyl refers to a lower alkyl group substituted with phenylsulfonyl. The terms substituted phenoxyalkyl , substituted phenyl thioalkyl and substituted phenylsulfonylalkylw refer to a phenoxyalkyl, a phenylthioalkyl and a phenylsulfonylalkyl group, respectively, substituted at one, two or three of the ring carbon atoms with a group selected from lower alkyl, lower haloalkyl, lower alkoxy, lower haloalkoxy, halogen, nitro or cyano. The term heterocycloalkyl refers to a cycloalkyl group of three to eight cyclic carbon atoms wherein one ring carbon atom is replaced by an oxygen atom or a nitrogen atom. The term eterocycloalkalkyl refers to a heterocycloalkyl group as defined herein wherein one hydrogen atom is replaced by a lower alkyl group of one to four carbon atoms. The compounds are useful for the control of weeds, using pre and or post emergent treatments. The compounds can be applied in the form of dusts, granules, solutions, emulsions, wettable powders and suspensions.Application of a compound of the present invention is made according to conventional procedure to the weeds or their locus using an herbicidally effective amount of the compound, usually from about one half or less to ten pounds per acre.Methods of preparing herbicidalXformulations which can be used with a compound of the present invention are described in the literature along with suitable liquid and solid carriers such as in U.S. Patent 4,192,669 and 4,163,661 which are incorporated herein by reference. The compounds of the present invention have herbicidal activity on both brpad leaf plants and the grassy weeds or graminaceous weeds. The optimum usage of a compound of the present invention is readily determinable by one of ordinary skill in the art using routine testing such as greenhouse testing and small plot testing. The term herbicide, as used herein, refers to an active ingredient which modifies the growth of plants because of phytotoxic or plant growth regulating proper ties so as to retard the growth of the plant or damage sufficiently to kill it. Compounds of formula D , such as methoxy carbonylmethyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy phenylphosphinate, show excellent broad spectrum pre and post emergence activity together with excellent tolerance for broadleaf plants such as soybeans and cotton when applied as a pre emergent herbicide. Other compounds of formula D demonstrate post emergent tolerance depending upon the choice of substituents. The following examples are provided to illustrate the practice of the present invention. Temperature is given in degrees Centigrade. EXAMPLE 1 A mixture of 4 2 chloro 4 trifluormethylphenoxy 1,2 dinitrobenzene, 2 chloro alpha , alpha , alpha trifluoro p tolyl 3,4 dinitrophenyl ether 1.2 g, 3.31 mmol and dimethyl methylphosphonite 0.57 g, 5.3 mmol in 3 ml of acetonitrile is refluxed overnight. The mixture is concentrated and the residue is purified by column chromatography silica gel, eluting with 3X ethyl acetate hexane to yield methyl p methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy phenylphosphinate. EXAMPLE 2 Followtng the procedure of Example 1, 1.5 g 4.14 mmol of 4 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 1,2 dinitrobenzene, 0.81 g 6.6 mmol of dimethyl ethylphosphonite and 3 ml of acetonitrile are reacted together to gtve methyl P ethyl 2 nitro S 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinate. In like manner, diethyl ethylphosphonite is reacted with 4 2 nitro 4 tri fluo romethytphenoxy 1,2 dinitrobenzene, yielding ethyl P ethyl 2 nitrQ 5 2 nitro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenyl phosphinate. EXAMPLE 3 A solution of i g Of methyl P methyl Z nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinate in 10 ml of 6N HCl is refluxed for 16 hours. After cooling, the solid product is collected by filtration and dried, yielding P methyl 2 ni tro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinic acid. In like manner, methyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 Z chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinate is hydrolyzed to giveP ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinic acid. EXAMPLE 4 Following the procedure of Example 1, each of the compounds in column I is reacted with dimethyl methylphosphonite to give the phosphinates in column II. 4 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 1,2 dinitrobenzene 4 4 chlorophenoxy 1,2 dinitrobenzene 4 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 1,2 dinitrobenzene 4 2,4 dinitrophenoxy 1,2 dinitrobenzene 4 2 cyano 4 trifluoromettylphenoxy 1,2 tinitrobenzene 4 2,4,6 trichlorophenoxy 1,2 dinitrobenzene 4 2 methyl 4 methoxyphenoxy 1,2 dinitrobenzene 4 tz chloro 4 difluoromethexyphenoxy l2 dinitrobenzene 4 2,4 dichlorophenoxy 1,2 dinitrobenzene 4 2 nitro 4 trifluoromethylRbenoxy dinitrobenzene 11 methyl P methyl 2 nitro 5 2,6 dichloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy phenylphosphinate methyl P methyl 2 nitro 5 4 chlorophenoxy phenyl phosphinate methyl RTI ID 12.11 P methyl 2 nitro 5 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenyl phosphinate methyl P methyl 2 nitro 5 2,4 dinitrophenoxy phenylphosphinate methyl P methyl 2 nitro 5 2 cyano 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenyl phosphinate methyl P methyl 2 nitro 5 2,4,6 trichlorophenoxy phenylphos phinate methyl methy1 2 nitro 5 2 methy1 4 methoxyphenoxy pheny1 phosphinate methyl P methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 difluoromethoxyphenoxy phenyl phosphinate methyl P methyl 2 nitro 5 2,4 dichlorophenoxy phenylphos phinate methyl P methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinate EXAMPLE 3 A solution of methyl P methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy phenylphosphinate 2 Na 5.5 w 17D in methanol 10 RTI ID 13.6 ml is hydrogenated with 10 Pd C 200 mgX at I atmosphere for 30 min. to give, after filtration and evaporation, methylP methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphos phinate. This is then diazotized following the procedure described in Grg. Synth. Cell. Vol. 1, p. 514 1932 .The resulting diazo salt is treated iith cuprous cyanide 1.2 eqS iii benzenewater solution. When the reaction iii completed, the organic phase is separated, washed, dried and purified by thin layer chromatography to yield methyl P methyl 2 cyano 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinate. EXAMPLE B A mixture of methyl methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 tri fluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinate 2 g and an excess of thionyl chloride 10 ml is reflexed for 3 hours. After removal of excess thionyl chloride the resulting P chloro p methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenyiphosphine oxide, in S ml of 2 butanone, is added to a solution of phenol 1.2 eq. and potassium carbonate 1.5 eq. in 20 ml of 2 butanone.The resulting mixture is refluxed under nitrogen for 24 hours, after which it is filtered and concentrated to dryness. Purification by chromatography on silica gel, eluting with 3X ethyl acetate hexane yields phenyl P methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methyl phenoxy phenylphosphi nate. EXAMPLE 7 P methyl Z nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinic acid 1 g is combined with aqueous sodium hydroxide 1 eq. , with stirring at room temperature for 2 hours.The soTution is then concentrated to dryness to yield the sodium salt of P methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chl or9 4 trifl uoromethyl phenoxy phenylphosphinic acid. rn the same way, P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy phenylphosphinic acid and aqueous sodium hydroxide are reacted to give the sodium salt of P ethyl 2 nitro 5 Z chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinic acid. EXAMPLE 8 A mixture of methyl P methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy phenylphosphinate 1.5 g, 4.7 mmol and phosphorus pentasulfide 0.52 g, 1.2 mmol is heated to 150 160 under nitrogen for 3 4 hours. After cooling, the residue is purified by preparative thin la yer chromatography on silica gel, eluting with 20 ethyl acetate hexane to give methyl P methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinothioate. In like manner, methyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 tri fluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinothioate is prepared from methyl P ethyl 2 nitro E 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinate and phosphorus pentasulfide. EXAMPLE 9 Following the procedure of Example 1, 4 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 1,2 dinitrobenzene and O methyl S propylmethylphosphonite are reacted to yield S propyl P methyl 2nitro 4 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinothioate. EXAMPLE 10 A mixture of P chloro P methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenyl phosphine oxide 2mmol and ethylamine 3 mmol in 10 ml of Toluene is heated at Edo overnight. Removal of the tol uene by evaporation yields P N ethylamino P methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinate. To prepare P amino P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy phenylphosphinate, ammonia gas is passed through P chloro P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphine oxide 2 mmol in 10 ml of toluene, with heating at 504. After reaction is complete, excess ammonia is removed and the toluene is evaporated off to give the final product. EXAMPLE 11 A mixture of 4 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 1,2 dinitro benzene 0.9 g, 2.48 mmol , diethyl methylphosphonite 0.5 g, 3.72 mmol and acetonitrile 3 ml is stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture is concentrated to dryness, and the residue is purified by preparative thin layer chromatography silica gel, eluting with 50X ethyl acetate hexane to give ethyl P methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenyl phosphinate. nmr CDCl3 1.94 2.97 6H, m, aromatic , 6.0 2H, quint,, P OCH2CH3 , 8.04 3N, d, P CH3 and 8.75 ppm 3H, t, P OCH2CH3 . EXAMPLE 12 Following the method of Example 11, 4 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy 1,2 dinitrobenzene 1.6 g, 4.4 mmol and dimethyl ethylphosphonite 1 ml, 2 eq in acetonitrile 6 ml are reacted to yield, after purification by preparative thin layer chroma tography silica get, 10t ethyl acetate hexane , methyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinate. nmr CDCl3 1.94 3.07 6H, m, aromatic , 6.39 3H, d, P OCH3 , 7.84 2H, quint. P CH2CH3 , 8.57 3H, t, P CH2CH3 and 8.90 ppm 3H, t, P CH2CH3 . EXAMPLE 13 Ethyl P methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy phenylphosphinate 1 g in 20 ml of 6N hydrochloric acid is heated under reflux overnight. The solution is then poured into water and extracted with methylene chloride. The combined solvent extracts are dried over magnesium sulfate and the solvent is then evaporated off to give P methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphonic acid. nmr CDC13 2.0 3.17 6H, nI, aromatic and 8.17 ppm 3H, d, P CH3 EXAMPLE 14 Following the method of Example 13, 1 g of methyl P ethyl2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy phenylphosphinateIs reacted with 20 ml of 6N HC1 to yield P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinic acid, s. p. 99 . EXAMPLE 15 A mixture of P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxyphenylphosphinic acid 0.360 g, 0.91 mmol and sodium hydroxide 0.364 g, 0.91 mmol in 3 ml of water is stirred until a clear solution is obtained. The solution is then dried in vacuo to give the sodium salt of P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinic acid. EXAMPLE 16 Following the procedure of Example I or Example 11, dimethyl methylphosphonite is reacted with each of 4 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenylthio 1,2 dinitrobenzene, 4 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl anilino 1,2 dinitrobenzene and 4 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl benzyl l ,2 dinitrobenzene to yield, respectively, methyl P methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenyl thio phenylphosphinate, methyl P methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylanilino phenylphosphinate, and methyl P methy1 2 nitro 5 2 ch70ro 4 trifluoromethyabenzy1 phenylphosphinate. EXAMPLE 17 Following the procedure of Example 1 or Example 11, each of 4 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 1,2 dinitrobenzene and 4 2,6 dichloro 4 trifluormethylphenoxy 1,2 dinitrobenzene is reacted with dimethyl P n propylphosphonite to yield, respectively, methyl P n propyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinate, and methyl P n propy1 2 ni tro 5 2, 6 di chl oro 4 tri fI ucromethyl phenoxy phenyl phosphinate. EXAMPLE 18 Following the method of Example 3 or Example 13, methylP n propyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinate and SN HCl are reacted to give P n propyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phennylphosphinic acid. EXAMPLE 19 The sodium silt Qf P n propyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy phenylphosphinic acid is made by reacting P n propyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifl uoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinic acid and sodium hydroxide, following the procedure of Example 15. EXAMPLE 20 Post emergence herbicidal activity on the grasses GR green foxtail, watergrass, shattercane and wild oats and on the broadleafs BL annual morningglory, mustard, soybean and velvetleaf was tested for the compound of Examples 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 test compounds no. 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 by spraying seedlings with a solution of water acetone 1 1 , surfactant 1 and test compound at a rate equivalent to 10 1b acre. The average score is given, in percent control, in Table I. TABLE I Test Compound GR BL T 50 94 2 70 100 3 67 100 4 90 100 5 98 100 Pre emergence herbicidal activity of test compounds 1, 2, 3, and 4 was tested on the above grasses GR and broadleafs BR nightshade substituted for soybean at a rate equivalent toTO 1b acre. The average activity, in percent control, is given in Table II. TABLE II Test Compound GR BL 1 65 92 2 75 93 3 77 85 4 93 88 EXAMPLE 21 Following the procedure of Example 11, 4 3 chloro 5 trlfluoro methyl 2 pyridyloxy 1,2 dinitrobenzene is reacted with each of dimethyl ethylphosphonite, diethyl methylphosphonite and dimethyl n propylphosphonite to yield, respectively, methyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 3 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl 2 pyridy loxy phenytphosphinate, ethyl P methyt 2 nitro 5 3 chtoro 5 trifluoromethyl 2 pyrid loxy phenylphosphinate, and methyl P n propyl 2 nitro 5 3 chloro 4 trifluoro methyl 2pyridyloxy phenylphosphinate. EXAMPLE 22 Following the method of Example 13, each of the phosphinate products of Example 21 is reacted with 6N HCl to give, respectively, P ethyt 2 nitro 5 3 chloro 5 trifluoromethyt 2 pyridyloxy phenylphosphinic acid, P methyl 2 nitro 5 3 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl 2 pyridyloxy phenylphosphinic acid, and P n propyl 2 nitro 5 3 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl 2 pyridyloxy phenylphosphinic acid. EXAMPLE 23 Following the procedure of Example 1 or Example 11, each of 4 5 chloro 2 pyridyloxy 1,2 dinitrobenzene, 4 3,5 dichloro 2 pyridyloxy l,2 dinitrobenzene and 4 5 trifluoromethyl 2pyridyloxy 1,2 dinitrobenzene is reacted with dimethyl ethylphosphonite to yield, respectively, methyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 5 chloro 2 pyridyoxy phenylphosphinate, methyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 3,5 dichloro 2 pyridyloxy phenylphosphinate, and methyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 5 trifluoromethyl 2 pyridyloxy phenylphosphinate. EXAMPLE 24 Following the procedure of Example 15, the sodium salt of P ethyl 2 nitro 5 3 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl 2 pyridyloxy phenylphosphinic acid, each of P methyl 2 nitro 5 3 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl 2 pyridyl oxy phenylphosphinic acid, and P n propyl nitro 5 3 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl 2 pyridyloxy phenylphosphinic acid is prepared by reacting each of the acids with sodium hydroxide. EXAMPLE 25 P methyl 2 nitro E 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenyl phosphinic acid 350 mg and thionyl chloride 3 ml are heated under reflux for 1.5 hours. Excess thionyl chloride is removed and the remaining P.methyl a nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphino chloridate is dissolved in 10 ml of methylene chloride. To this solution is passed an excess of methylamine at 0 for 2 minutes. The reaction is then taken up in methylene chloride, washed with brine, dried and evaporated to dryness to yield N methyl P methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chl oro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy phenyl phos phinamide, m. P. 150 151 . In the same manner, P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy phenylphosphinic acid is reacted with thionyl chloride, and the resulting phosphinochloridate is reacted with methyl amine to give N methyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinamide, hygroscopic. nmr COCl 6 1.87 2.13 GH, m, aromatic , 7.43 7.64 3H, dd, P NHCH3 , 7.90 2H, quint., P CH2CH3 and 8.80 9.14 ppm 3H, tt, P CH2CH3 . EXAMPLE 26 To a mixture of P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy phenylphosphinochloridate 2 mmol , methylene chloride 2 mmol and triethylamine 2 mmol is added allylamine 3 mmol . Te mixture is stirred at room temperature for about 2 hours. The reaction is then taken up in methylene chloride, washed with brine, dried and evaporated , yielding N allyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chlors 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinamide. In like manner, P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethy phenoxy phenylphosphinochloridate is reacted with each of the armies in column III to give the corresponding phosphinamide in column I . III 0 allylhydroxyamine propargyl amine phenylamine N methylsulfonamine 2 chloroethylamine IV N O allylhydroxy P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinamide N propargyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy phenytphosphinamide N phenyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy phenyl phosphlnamide N methylsulfonyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinamide N 2 chloroethyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinamide EXAMPLE 27 Following the procedure of Example 26, but without the inclusion of triethylamine, each of ethyl 2 hydroxypropanoate and ethyl thio ethanoate is reacted with P ethyl .2 nitro 5 2 chtoro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy phenylphosphinochloridate to yield, respectively, w ethoxycarbonylethyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy phenylphosphinate and S alpha ethoxycarbonylethyl P ethyl .2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluormethylphenoxy phenylphosphinothioate. EXAMPLE 28 Following the procedure of Example 26, each of acetone oxime and cyclohexanone oxime is reacted with P methyl Z nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinochloridate to give, respectively, dimethylidene P methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy phenylphosphinoxime ester, m s 464 M , and cyclohexylidene 9 methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylPhenoxy phenylphosphinoxime ester. EXAMPLE 29 Following the procedure of Example 1, a mixture of 4 2 chloro4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 1,2 dinitrobenzene 2.0 g, 5.52 mmol and dimethyl phenylphosphonlte 1.4 g, 8.28 mmol in 4 ml of acetonitrile is. heated under reflux overnight. The crude product is purified to yield methyl P phenyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinate, m s 471 M . EXAMPLE 30 P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinochloridate 2 mmol is added to a solution of methyl copper, prepared from copper I Oxide 4.4 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 40 ml and methyllithium 4 mmol at 20 . The mixture is stirred at 20 for 2 hours, then allowed to warm to RT and treated with dilute hydrochloric acid and extracted with methylene chloride. The combined extracts are washed, dried and evaporated to dryness to giveP methylP ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenyl phosphi nate. EXAMPLE 31 A mixture of 4 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 1,2 dinitro benzene 1.8 g, 4.97 mmot , sodium hypophosphite 0.88 g, 9.94 mmo1 and cupric sulfate 180 mg in 20 ml of methyl nitrile water 4 1 is heated under reflux for 24 hours. The reaction is poured into water, extracted with methylene chloride, di red and chromatographed silica gel, eluting with 10 methanol chloroform to yield 2 nitro 5 2chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinic acid. Example 32 A mixture of P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinic acid 500 mg , potassium carbonate 300 mg and methyl bromoacetate 400 mg in 2 butanone 10 ml is heated under reflux for 1 hour. The reaction is filtered and concentrated, and the crude product is purified by prep. TLC to yield methoxycarbonylmethyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methyl phenoxy phenylphosphinate nmr CDCl3 5.67 d. 2H. 10.5 Hz,EMI25.1 6.34 s, 3H, OCH3 . 7.70 sextet, 2H, PCH2CH3 and 8.65 ppm tt, 3H, P CH2CH3 . In the same way, P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy phenylphosphinic acid is reacted with methyl bromoacetate to give methoxycarbonylmethyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 fluoro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenalphosphinate. Example 33 A mixture of P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy phenylphosphinic acid 700 mg, 1.86 mmol , potassium carbonate 309 mg, 1.2 eq and methyl 2 bromopropionate 467 mg, 1.5 eq. in acetone 20 ml is heated under reflux for 24 hours. After filtration and concentration, the oily residue is purified by prep.TLC 40 ethyl acetate hexane to give alpha methoxy carbonylethyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinate. nmr CDCl3 5.07 m. 1H,EMI26.1 6.43 6.23 ss, 3H, OCH3 , 7.70 m, 2H, PCH2CH3 , 8.64 8.44 dd, 3H, 7Hz,EMI26.2 and 9.00 8.65 tt,3H, PCH2CH3 . in the same manner, P ethyl2nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trfluoro methylphenoxy phenylphosphinic acid 500 mg., 1.22 mmol and ethyl bromoacetate 408 mg, 2.44 mmol are reacted together with potassium carbonate 253 mg, 1.83 mmol in 2 butanone 10 ml to yield ethoxycarbonylmethyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinate. nmr CDCl3 6 5.40 d, 2H, 10.5Hz, EMI26.3 5.87 q, 2H, OCH2CH3 , 7.70 sextet, 2H, PH2CH3 , 8076 t, 3H, OCH2CH3 and 8.65 t. 3H, PCH2CH3 . Example 34 Following the above procedures, P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinic acid is reacted with each of isopropyl bromoacetate and t butyl bromoacetate to yield, respectively, isopropoxycarbonylmethyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy phenyl phosphinate nmr CDCL3 64.97 m, 1H. 0CH CH3 2 , 5.45 d, 2H,EMI27.1 7.70 sextet, 2H, P CH2CH3 , 8.84 8.70 ss, 6H, OCH CH3 2 and 9.00 8.65 ppm tt, 3H, PCH2CH3 . and t butoxycarbonylmethyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinate nmr CDLCl3 5.57 d, 10 Hz,EMI27.2 7.70 sextet, 2H. PCH2CH3 , 8.57 s, 9H, OC CH3 3 and 9.00 8.65 tt, 2H, PCH2CH3 . Example 35 Following the procedure of Example 32, P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 tr fluoromethylphenoxy phenylophosphinic acid is reacted with each of the carboxylates or carboxythioates in column Y to give the corresponding posphinate in column VI. Y 1. ethyl 2 bromopropionate 2. cyanomethyl bromoacetate 3. n butyl bromacetate 4. phenyl bromoacetate 5. 4 chlorophenyl bromoacetate 6. benzyl bromoacetate 7. bromoacetlc acid 8. methyl bromoacetothioate 9. benzyl bromoacetothioate 10. allyl bromacetate 11. 2 propynyl bromoacetate 12. 2,2,2 trifluoroethyl bromacetate 13. 3,3 dichloro allyl bromacetate 14. acetonyl bromoacetate 15. 2 bromoacetoxyimino acetone 16. methyl 2 bromoacetoxyimino propionate 17. 2 bromoacetoxyimino 3 pentanone 18. 2 bromoacetoxyimino propionic acid 19. ethyl methylthiobromoacetate 20. methyl methoxybromoacetate 21. sec butyl bromoacetate VIEMI28.1 R13 W R14 1. CH3 0 CH2CH3 m s 509 M 2. H 0 CH2CN 3. H 0 CH2CH2CH2CH3 4. H 0 CH6H5 5. H 0 4 Cl C6H4 6.N O CH2C6H5 m s 557 M 7. H 0 H m s 481 M 8. H S CH3 9. H S CH2C6H5 10. H O CH2CH CH2 m s 507 11. H O CH2C CH 12. H O CH2CF3 13. H O CH2CH C Cl 2 r4. H O CH2C O CH3, m s 523 M 15. H O N C H3 2 , m s 522 M 16. H 0 N C CH3 COOCH3 17. H O N C CH3 C O CH2CH3 18. H o NaC CH3 COOR 19. SCH3 o CR2CX3 20. OCH3 O 21.H O CH CH3 CH2CH3, m s 523 M Example 36 Following the procedure of Example 32, each of the compounds bromoacetamide, N,N dimethyl bromoacetamide, N methyl N phenylbromoacetamide, and N ethyl bromoacetamide is reacted with P ethyl 2nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinic acid to yield, respectively, amidocarbonylmethyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinate, N,N dimethylamidocarbonylmethyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinate, N methyl N phenylamidocarbonylmethyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinate, and ethylamidocarbonylmethyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinate. Example 37 Folowing the procedures of Example 20, the compound methoxycarboxylmethyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinate was tested for both pre emergence and postemergence herbicidal activity. The average pre emergence activity of the compound in percent control was 95 in grasses and 100 fn broadleafs. The compound showed 100 post emergent control in both grasses and broadleafs. Example 38 Following the procedure of Example 11, 4 2 fluoro 4 tri fluoromethylphenoxy 1,2 dinitrobenzene is reacted with each of diethyl methylphosphonite and dimethyl ethylphosphonite to yield, respectively, ethyl P methyl Z nitro 5 2 fluoro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinate, and methyl P ethy1 2 nStro 5 2 fluoro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinate. Following the procedure of Example 13, methyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 fluoro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinate is reacted with 6N SC1 to giveP ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinic acid. Example 39 Following the procedure of Example 32, methyl bromoacetate is reacted with each of P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2,6 dichloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy phenylphosphinic acid, P ethyl 2 nitro 5 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy phenylphosphinic acid, P ethyl 2 nitro 5 4 chloro phenoxy phenylphosphinic acid and P ethyl 2 nitro 5 l4 chloro 2 nitrophen oxy phenylphosphinic acid to yield, respectively, methoxycarbonylmethyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinate, methoxycarbonylmethyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinate, methoxycarbonylmethyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 4 chlorophenoxy phenylphosphinate, and methoxycarbonylmethyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 4 chloro 2 nitrophenoxy phenyl phosphinate. Example 40Following the procedure of Example 32, p ethyl 2 nitro 5 3 ch10ro 5 trifluoromethy1 2 pyridy10xy pheny1phosphinic acid is reacted with each of the carboxylates in column VII to give the corresponding phosphinate in column VIII. VII methyl bromoacetate isopropyl bromoacetate t butyl bromoacetate methyl 2 bromopropionate bromoacetic acid 2,2,2 trifluoroethyl bromoacetate VIII methoxycarbonylmethyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl 2 pyridyloxy phenylphosphinate isopropoxycarbonylmethyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl 2 pyridyloxy phenylphosphinate alpha t butoxyccarbonyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 3 chloro 4 trifluoromethyt 2 pyridyloxy phenylpftesphinate alpha methoxycarbonylethyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 3 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl 2 pyridyloxy phenylphosphinate hydroxycarbonylmethyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 3 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl 2 pyridyloxy phenylphosphinate 2,2,2 trifluoroethoxycarbonylmethyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 3 chloro5 trifluoromethyl 2 pyridyloxy phenylphosphinate Example 41 Following the procedure of Example 15, each of hydroxycarbony1 methyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinate and hydroxycarbonylmethyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 3 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl 2 pyridyloxy phenylphosphinate is reacted with sodium hydroxide to give the sodium salt of each of the two compounds. Example 42 Following the procedure of Example 11, 4 2 chloro 4 trifluorometayl phenoxyfl,2 dinitro benzene is reacted with each of diethyl n propylphcsphonite, diethyl isopropylphosphonite, diethyl t butylphosphonite and diethyl sec butyl phosphonite to yield, respectively, ethyl P n propyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenyl phosphinate, m s 451 ethyl P isopropyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinate, m s 451 ethyl P t butyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 tri4luoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinate, m s 465 N and ethyl P sec butyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinate, m s 465 M . Following the procedure of Example 13, each of the above phosphinates is hydrolyzed to yield, respectively, P n propyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy phenylphosphinic acid, m s 423 P isopropyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy phenylphosphinic acid, m s 423 P t butyl 2 nitro.5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy phenyl phosphinic acid, m s 437 N and P sec butyl 2 nitro 5 s chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy phenylphosphinic acid, m s 437 M . Example 43 Following the procedure of Example 11, 4 2,4 dichlorophenoxy 1,2 dinitrobenzene is reacted with dimethyl methylphosphonite to give methyl P methyl 2 nitro 5 2,4 dichloro phenoxy phenylphosphinate, m s 376 M . In the same way dimethyl ethylphosphonite is reacted with each of 4 2,4 dichlorophenoxy 1,2 dinitrobenzene, 4 4 bromo 2 chlorophenoxy 1,2 dinitrobenzene and 4 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 1,2 dinitrobenzene to give, respectively, methyl P ethyl 2 nitto 5 2,4 dichlorophenoxy phenylphosphinate, m s 390 methyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 4 bromo 2 chloro phenoxy phenylphospinate, m s 435 M , and methyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy phenylphosphinate, m s 389 M . Following the procedure of Example 13, each of the above four phosphinates is hydrolyzed to yield, respectively, P methyl 2 nitro 5 2 ,4 dichlorophenoxy phenyiphosphinic acid, m s 362 P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2,4 dichlorophenoxy phenyl phosphinic acid, m s 375 H P ethyl 2 nitro 5 4 bromo 2 chlorophenoxy phenylphosphinic acid, m s 420 N and P ethyl 2 nitro 5 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinic acid. Exanple 44 Following the procedure of Example 32, P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy phenylphosphinio acid is reacted with each of the compounds under column IX to give the corresponding phosphinate under column X. IX 22. chloroacetonitrile 23. chloropropiononitrile 24 . 2 chloroethyl bromide 25. 3, 3 dichloro 2 propenyl bromide 26. 2 propenyL bromide 27. 2 4 bromophenoxy ethyl bromide 28. 2 phenylthioethyl chloride 29. t butylcarbonylmethyl bromide 30. chloroacetone 31. chloroacetophenoneEMI35.1 R2 R6 m s .X 22. CH2CH3 CH2CN 448 23. CH2CH3 CH2CH2CN 462 24. CH2CH3 CH2CH2Cl 437 25. CH2CE3 C CtCl 2 518 R2 R6 m s M 26. CH2CH3 CH2CH CH2 449 27. CH2CH3 Cg2CR20C6H4 4 Br 608 28. CE2CH3 CR2CR2SC6H 5 545 29. CH2CH3 CH2C O C CH3 3 507 30. CE2CR3 CH2C O CH3 465 31.CH2CR3 CE2C O C6z5 503 Example 45 To P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy phenyl phosphinic acid chloride, prepared from P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinic acid 500 mg, 1.22 mmol and thionyl chloride 3 ml by the procedure of Example 25, in methylene chloride 3 ml is added propargyl alcohol 3 ml and triethyl amine 0.2 ml . The mixture is stirred at RT for 4 hours, after which the reaction is taken up in methylene chloride, washed, dried and evaporated. The crude product is purified by prep. TLC to give propargyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinate, mis 447 M . In the same way, P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy phenyl phosphinic acid chloride is reacted with each of the alcohols under column XI to yield the corresponding phosphinate under column XII. XI 32. 4 chlorobenzyl alcohol 33. 2 4 nitrophenylthio 1 ethynol 34. 2.methylthio l ethanol 35. 2 ethylthio l ethanol 36. 2 methoxy l ethanol 37. 2,3 epoxy 1 propanol 38. 2,5 epoxy l pentanol 39. 1, 4 epoxy 2 butanol 40. 2 N,N dimethylamino 1 ethynolEMI37.1 EMI37.2 tb SEP R2 SEP R6 SEP m s SEP M tb 32. SEP CM SEP CUR SEP CR2C6R4 4 Cl SEP 534 tb 33. SEP CH2CH3 SEP CR2CH2SC6R4 4 N02 SEP 590 tb 34. SEP CH2CH3 SEP CH2CH2SCB3 SEP 483 tb 35. SEP SEP CH2CH3 SEP CH2CH2SCH2CH3 SEP 483 tb 36. SEP CR2CH3 SEP CH2cR20CH3 SEP 453 tb 37. SEP CR2CR3 SEP CR2CsSCR2 SEP 465 tb SEP C tb 38. SEP CR2CE3 SEP CH2C2CH2 SEP CH2 SEP 493 tb SEP o tb 39. SEP CR2CH3 SEP CHCH2CE2 SEP 479 tb SEP I SEP I tb SEP 2 tb 40. SEP CH2CH3 SEP CR2CH2N CH3 2 SEP 480 tb Example 46 A. A solution of methyl P methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy phenylphosphinate 1.8 g in ethanol 10 ml with 10 Pd C 0.3 g is hydrogenated at 30 lb. pressure at RT for about 1.5 hours to give, after filtration and evaporation, methyl P methyl 2 amino 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenyl phosphinate. The above aminophenylphosphinate, in 2 ml of ethanol, is added dropwise to 9BF4 3 ml which has been cooled to 00. Sodium nitrite 0.34 g , dissolved in 2 ml of water and cooled to 00, is added dropwise to the mixture to give the diazo salt of the phosphinate. Cuprous chloride 1.2 eq. is dissolved in a minimum of 29 HC1 CH3CN and is then added dropwise to the above diazo salt at 00. After addition is complete, the reaction mixture is allowed to warm to RT and is extracted with ether. The combined extracts are dried and the crude product is purified by prep. TLC silica gel, developing with 50S ethyl acetate hexane, then with 50S acetone hexane to give methyl P methyl 2 chloro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy phenylphosphinate, m s 398 B. A solution of 90S pure sodium cyanide 895 mg in a minimum of water is added to a stirring suspension of cuprous chloride 660 mg in 2 ml of water, cooled to 00.The diazo salt from A above, neutralized with sodium carbonate, is added dropwise to the cuprous cyanide system. The reaction mixture is stirred for 2 hours and is then extracted with ether. The combined extracts are washed and dried, and the crude product is purified by prep.TLC to give methyl P methyl 2 cyano 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy phenylphosphinate, m s 359 . C. To a solution of methyl P methyl 2 cyano 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinate 0.46 g in 10 ml of methylene chloride iS added trimethylsilyl bromide 0.75 ml dropwise. The mixture is stirred for 2 hours, after which methanol is added. The reaction is stripped and evaporated under vacuum to give P methyl 2 cyano 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy phenylphosphinic acid, m s 375 l4 . Methyl P methyl 2 chloro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluorornethylphenoxy phenylphosphinate is reacted in the same manner as above to give P methyl 2 cSloro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenyl phosphinic acid, m s 384 M . Example 47 Following the procedure of Example 46, ethyl P ethyl 2 amino 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy phenylphosphinate is prepared from ethyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylpheno.xy phenylphosphinate, and is then diazotized. The resulting diazo salt is reacted with each of cuprous cyanide and cuprous chloride to yield, respectively, ethyl P ethyl 2 cyano 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinate, m s 417 M and ethyl P ethyl 2 chloro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinate, m s 426 M . Each of the abovetphosphinates is reacted with trimethylsilyl bromide and thenbwith methanol, again following the procedure ofExample 46, to give, respectively,. P etnyl 2 cyano 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxympheny phosphinic acid, and P ethyl 2 chloro 5 2 chlor 4 trifluormethylphenoxy phenylphosphinic acid, m s 399 Example 48 Following the procedure of Example 45, P methyl 2 nitro5 2 chloro 4 trifluordmethylphenoxy phenylphosphinic acid chloride and propargylamine are reacted together to give Npropargyl P methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinamide, m s 432 M . Example 49 Following the procedure of Example 45, P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinic acid chloride and 2,3 dimethylmethylenedioxy 1 propanol are reacted together to yield 2,3 dimethylmethylenedioxy propyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinate, m s 523 M EMI40.1 Example 50 2 Amino 3,5 dichloropyridine 21.0 g. is dissolved in conc. HCl 200 ml. , then cooled with ice. To this solution, NaN02 48 g. in water 60 ml. is added slowly over 30 minutes. The reaction mixture is stirred at 0 for 1 hour and then 500 for l hour. The mixture is then poured into ice water and extracted with ether. The combined extracts are washed, dried and evaporated to dryness to give yeliow solid. The solid is stirred with 25 ether hexane and filtered. The filtrate is concentrated and washed again with 25 ether hexane to give 2,3,5 trichioro pyridine 12 g. . A mixture of the above trichloropyridine 6 g. , mnitrophenol 4.58 g. , S2C03 5.4 g. and DMSO 25 ml. is heated to 1200 for 16 hours. The mixture is poured into water and extracted with ether. The combined extracts are washed, dried and evaporated to crystalline solid. The solid is crystallized from ether hexane 25 50 to yield 4 3,5 dichloropyridyloxy 2 nitrobenzene. To a solution of the above mono nitro ether 1.5 g. in CH2C12 3 ml. is added conc. H2S04 8 ml. at 0 andKN03 760 mg. in portions. The mixture is stirred at 0 for 1 hour and then R.T. for 2 hours. The mixture is poured onto ice and extracted with CZ2C12. The combined extracts are washed, dried and evaporated to dryness and washed with ether to give 4 3,5 dichloro 2 pyridyloxyl l,2 dinitro benzene yield 1.45 g. . Example 51 A mixture of 4 3,5 dichloro 2 pyridyloxy l,2 dini trobenzene 1.4 g., 4.48 mmol , dimethyl ethylphosphinate 1.1 ml., 8.96 mmol and acetonitrile 10 ml. is stirred at RT overnight. The reaction mixture is evaporated to dryness, and the resulting residue is purified by prep.TLC to give methyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 3,5 dichloro 2pyridyloxy phenylphosphinate. nmr CDC13 acetoned6 6 1.80 2.54 m, 6H, aromaticH . 6.34 d, 3H, 12Hz, OCH3 , 7.87 sextet, 2H, PCH2CH3 and 8.70 9.04 ppm tt, 3H, PCH2CH3 . A mixture of methyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 3,5 dichloro 2 pyridyloxy phenylphosphinate 0.6 g. , methanol 10 ml. and 5 aqueous potassium hydroxide 10 ml. is heated to 90 for 15 min. The basic aqueous solution is acidified and extracted with ether. The combined ether extracts are washed and dried and the solvent is evaporated off to giveP ethyl 2 nitro 5 3, 5 dichloro 2 pyridyloxy phenyl phosphinic acid. nmr CDC13 acetone d6 1.20 bs, 1H, POH , 1.80 2.50 m, 6H, aromatic H , 7.77 sextet, 2H, PCH2CH3 and 8.90 9 14 ppm tt, 3H, PCH2cH3 . A mixture of P ethyl 2 nitro 5 3,5 dichloro 2 pyridyl oxy phenylphosphinic acid 0.42 g., 1.2 mmol , potassium carbonate 2.0 mg , methyl bromoacetate 0.2 ml., 2.4 mmol , and 2 butanone 20 ml. is heated under reflux for 2 hours.The reaction mixture is filtered and concentrated, and the crude product is purified by prep. TLC 508 ethyl acetate hexane to give methoxycarbonylmethyl p ethyl 2 nitro 5 3,5 dichloro 2pyridyloxy phenylphosphinate. nmr CDCl3 1.74 2.64 m, 6H, aromatic H , 5.44 d, 2H, 12Hz, POCH2 , 6.30 s, 3H, OCR3 , 7.92 sextet, 2H, PCH2CH3 and 8.64 8.97 ppm tt, 3H, PCH2CR3 . Example 52 Following the procedure of Example 32, P ethyl 2nitro 5 2 chlor 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy phenylphosphinic acid is reacted with each of the carboxylates under column XIIX to give the corresponding phosphinates under column XIV. XIII 41. trimethylsilylethyl bromoacetate 42. ethoxycarbonylethyl bromoacetate 43. 2,5 epoxypentyl brpmoacetate 44. 3 methoxy 3 methylbutyl bromoacetate 45. isopentyl bromoacetate 46. 3,3 dimethylbutyl bromoacetate 47. pentamethylbenzyl chloride XIVEMI43.1 EMI44.1 tb SEP R13 SEP W SEP R14 SEP m s M tb 41. SEP K SEP O SEP CH2CH2Si CH3 3 SEP 567 tb 42. SEP H SEP o SEP CR CE3 C O OCS2CE3 SEP 567 tb 43. SEP H SEP SEP CH2CHCH2CR SEP CE SEP 551 tb SEP c tb 44. SEP H SEP O SEP CH2CH2C CH3 2OCH3 SEP 567 tb 45. SEP H SEP O SEP CH2CH2CH CH3 2 SEP 532 tb 46. SEP H SEP O SEP CH2CH2 C CH3 3 SEP 551 tb 47 SEP H SEP O SEP CS2C6 CE3 5 SEP 583 tb Example 53 Following the procedure of Example 45, P methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy phenylphosphinic acid chloride is reacted with each of ethyl lactate and 3, 3 dimethyl butanol to give, respectively, o ethoxycarbonylethyl Pmethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinate, m s 495 M and 3,3 dimethylbutyl P methyl 2nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinate, m s 448 g . In the same way, P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chlor 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy phenylphosphinic acid chloride is reacted with each of the alcohols, thiols or amines listed under columnXV to give the corresponding phosphinates under column XVI. XV 48. 4 chlorophenol 49. methoxyethoxyethanol 50. hydrogen sulfide 51. 2, 6 dichlorohydrazine 52. methoxycarbonyl 2 propenol XVIEMI45.1 R5 . m s M 48. CH2CH3 OC6H4 4 Cl 519 49. CH2CH3 . OCH2CH2OCH2CH2OCH3 511 50. C cH2FHi SR 425 51. CH2CH3 NENHC6E3 2,6 diCl 568 52. CH2Ch3 OCH2CH CHC O OCH3 507 Example 54 A mixture of methylthioethyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinate 480 mg, 1.0 mmol , 3 chloroperbenzoic acid 600 mg, 3.5 mmol and chloroform 5 ml is stirred at RT overnight. The reaction mixture is diluted with chloroform, washed with 5 potassium hydroxide 2X , dired and filtered, and the solvent is stripped off.The crude product is purified on the chromatotron developing with ethyl acetate to give methylsulfonylethyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluor methylphenoxy phenylphosphinate, m s 515 X . In the same way, phenylthioethyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinate 630 mg, 1.15 mmol and 3 chloroperbenzoic acid 600 mg, 3.5 mmol are reacted together to give phenylsulfonylethyl P ethyl 2nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinate, mZs 577 Example 55 Following the procedure of Example 13, methyl P phenyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylphosphinate is hydrolyzed to give P phenyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy phenyl phosphinic acid, m s 457 M . Example 56 Emulsifiable concentrates are prepared having the following compositions components in percent by weight g3 Compound B 27.78 Igepol CO 530 2.67 Tween 21 2.67 Tween 81 2.67 Corn oil 64.21 Compound B is the compound of Example 32, first paragraph. Tween 21 is a non ionic surfactant, polyoxyethylene sorbitan monolaurate, and Tween 81 is a non ionic surfactant, polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate. Tween is a trademark of ICI Americas. Igepol Co 530 is a non ionic surfactant, monylphenoxy poly ethyleneoxy ethanol, of GAF, Znc. µ4 compound C 29.3 Toximol S 6.4 Atlox 8916 TF 1.6 Tenneco 500 100 62.7 Compound C is the second compound of Example 34. ToximolS is a surfactant of the Stepan Chemical Corporation, Illinois.Atlox 8916 TF is a surfactant of ICI, Americas, Delaware.Tenneco 500 100 is an aromatic solvent of the Tenneco Corporation. Example 57 Flowable formulations are prepared having the following compositions components in percent by weight 48 A Compound B 3.00 Toximol 360A 3.00 Sun 7N oil 30.00 B Water 60.85 Gelvatol 20 30 3.00 Kelzan 0.15 Premix A is dispersed in a high speed blender for about one minute, and then premix B is poured into premix A while stirring at high speed. Stirring is continued for about 5 minutes. Toximol 360A is a surfactant of the Stepan Chemical corporation. Sun 7N is a non phytotoxic oil of the Sun Chemical Company. Gelvatol 20 30 is a polyvinyl alcohol, molecular weight about 10,000, of the Monsanto Company. Kelzan is a thickening agent xanthum gum . um 9 A Compound C 3.00 Toximol 360A 3.00 Sun 7A 30.00 B Water 60.85 Gelvatol 20 30 3.00 Darvan No. 1 0.15 Premx A and B are combined as described for flowable formulation X8 above. Darvan No. 1 is a dispersant of the RT Vanderbilt Company. Example 58 Following the procedure of Example 11, 4 2 nitro 4 tri fluoromethylanilino 1,2 dinitrobenzene and dimethyl ethylphosphonite are reacted together to give methyl P ethyl 2nitro 5 2 nitro 4 trifluormethylanilino phenylphosphinate. Methyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 nitro 4 trifluoromethyl anilino phenylphosphinate is then hydrolyzed, followingExample 13 procedures, to P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 nitro 4 trifluoromethylanilino phenylphosphinic acid. Following the procedure of Example 32, P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 nitro 4 trifluoromethyl anilino phenylphosphinic acid is reacted with methylbromoacetate to give methoxycarbonylmethyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 nitro 4 trifluormethyl anilino phenylphosphinate. Examples of herbicides which can be combined with the compounds of the present invention are described byW.T. Thomson, Agricultural Chemicals Book ZI Herbicides, Thomson Publications, Fresno, California, U.S.A., 1981 82Revision, such as alachlor or metribuzin.