# Point of egress control device for safely securing emergency exit doors.

## Abstract
Apparatus for securing an emergency exit door includes a bolt for engaging a keeper, a dogging mecha nism for dogging the bolt and a fluid throttling device disposed between the bolt and dogging mechanism. An electrical timer is connected to the dogging mechanism by a solenoid and starts to count upon an attempt to open the door. After a predetermined time interval has run, the elec trical timer releases the dogging mechanism and allows the door to dopen. If the electrical timer fails to release the dogging mechanism, the door will still open if pushed due to operation of the fluid throttling device, which slowly shortens under pressure, allowing the bolt to clear the keeper. In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the invention, the bolt is mounted on the door frame and the keeper on the door so that the door may be conveniently retrofitted with the invention. In order to readily align the keeper with the bolt, the keeper is loosely mounted and guided into alignment with the bolt by a bevelled guide. Upon being latched by the bolt, the keeper is held rigidly between the guide and the bolt. After the door has been opened, it cannot be resecured for a predetermined relock time interval. If the door is shut within this relock time interval, the relock time interval restarts, allowing the door to be reopened without a delay. Each time the door is shut after being opened, the relock time interval is restarted. In order to maximize reliability, Hall Effect switches are utilized to monitor the position and movement of the bolt and the condition of the solenoid.

## Claims
What we claim is 1. Apparatus for securing an emergency exit door wherein the door is hinged along one edge to a door frame keeper means on said door latching means mounted on said door frame, said latching means including closure operated bolt means, means for mounting the bolt means for movement into a latched condition with said keeper means upon closing the door and into an unlatched condition upon pushing on the door in a direction to open the door, said latching means further including means for dogging the bolt and timing means connected to the dogging means for releasing the dogging means to undog the bolt after a predetermined delay subsequent to an attempt to open the door and means for indicating that an attempt is being made to open the door, said indicating means operating while the bolt means is being delayed. 2. The apparatus of Claim 1 further including means for interrupting the delay means wherein the dogging means moves immediately to undog the bolt upon operation of the interrupting means. 3. The apparatus of Claim 2 further including emergency condition indicating means connected to the interrupting means for operating the interrupting means upon occurrence of an emergency situation. 4A. An emergency exit door securing system wherein the system is used to secure the door member with respect to a door frame member, and includes retaining means for holding the door in a non operable condition, the retaining means including a first portion or means associated with the frame member and a second portion or means associated with the door member and having a door released mode and a doo locking mode, and characterised by means for controlling the release of the door member from its locking mode to the released mode, means for delaying for a predetermined time period the release of the door member following initiation of control means operation, and meas responsive to control means operation or initiation for indicating that an attempt is being made to open the door, the indicating means operating whilst the operational mode of the retaining means changeover of operating mode is being delayed. 4. The apparatus of Claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein the timing means includes a hydraulic cylinder means disposed between the bolt means and dogging means, the hydraulic cylinder means having a piston therein which is connected to move relative to a hydraulic cylinder while the dogging means is in a dogged mode and to move with the hydraulic cylinder when the dogging means is in an undogged mode, said hydraulic cylinder further including throttle means for permitting relatively slow movement of the piston with respect to the cylinder while the bolt is moving from the latched to the unlatched mode, and also including one way valve means for permitting rapid movement of the piston relative to the cylinder when the bolt is moving from the unlatched condition to the latched condition, and electrical timing means for releasably holding the dogging means in the dogging mode. 5. An emergency exit door securing system wherein the system is used to secure a door member with respect to a door frame member, the system comprising a keeper mounted on one of the members a latching mechanism mounted on the other member, the latching mechanism including base means for mounting various components of the latching mechanism bolt means for latchably engaging the keeper member and means for movably mounting the bolt means to the base member dogging means movably mounted on said base means for movement between a dogging mode and undogging mode means for gradually displacing a fluid connected between the bolt means and dogging means means for selectively retaining the dogging means in either the dogged mode or the undogged mode means for releasing the dogging means means for operating the release means, said operating means including an electrical timer and means for sensing when an attempt is made to open the door, said sensing means being connected to the timer for starting the timer to count a time interval upon an attempt to open the door and to thereafter allow the release means to undog the bolt whereby opening of the door is delayed after an attempt to open the door occurs, and means for indicating that an attempt is being made to open the door. 6. The system of Claim 5 wherein the dogging means includes a toggle linkage which is held in a jambed position by the release means when the bolt is dogged and is allowed to collapse when the bolt is indogged. 7. The system of Claim 6 wherein the toggle linkage includes a first link pivoted to the base at one end and to the hydraulic delay means at the other end a second link pivoted at one end to the hydraulic means and at the other end to an actuator, and a third link pivoted at one end to the actuator rod and at the other end to the base, and wherein the solenoid means includes an armature connected at one end to the actuator means for limiting motion of the armature and thus the actuator in one direction to a point where the second and third links are at dead center while the first and second links are in an overcenter configuration which overcenter configuration urges the second and third links to jam upon application of an opening force to the bolt. 8. The system of Claim 7 wherein the release means further includes spring means for uging the actuator to collapse the toggle linkage formed by the second and third links. 9. The system of Claim 8 further including a Hall Effect switch juxtaposed with the solenoid to detect the position of the armature in the solenoid whereby the switch operates when the solenoid is energized to draw the armature thereinto against the bias of the spring. 10. The system of Claim 8 wherein the sensing means is also a Hall Effect switch and wherein the Hall Effect switch juxtaposed with the armature is in series with the switch of the sensing means. 11. The apparatus of Claim 8 wherein the bolt has a unitary structure and is pivoted on the base member and wherein the bolt includes a first surface which is engaged by the keeper to push the bolt to the latched condition upon shutting the door and a second surface also engaged by the keeper which pulls the bolt toward the unlatched position upon applying an opening force to the door. 12. The system of Claim 11 wherein the hydraulic member is passive and unbiased whereby the piston in the hydraulic cylinder is returned to the latched condition only by the force applied to the bolt by the keeper upon closing the door. 13. The system of Claim 12 wherein the throttle orifice is within the piston itself and wherein the one way valve is contained within the hydraulic cylinder. 14. The system of Claim 1 wherein the keeper is made of a resilient material which flexes when a force is applied to the door in order to absorb shock. 15. The apparatus of Claim 14 wherein the keeper has at least one hole therein of a first diameter and wherein shoulder bolts having a shoulder of a diameter less than the hole are used to mount the keeper, whereby the keeper is self adjusting. 16. In a security device for securing a closure member to a frame member, the security device comprising bolt mounting means on one member, bolt means within the bolt mounting means for movement between a latched and an unlatched position keeper means having a projecting strike portion which strike portion engages with the bolt means to latch the closure, the keeper means further including a mounting portion and means for loosely securing the mounting portion to the other member whereby the keeper is free to move with respect to the other member bolt guide means mounted adjacent the bolt, the bolt guide means including an inner opening aligned with the bolt and corresponding in crosssection to the strike portion of the keeper and further including beveled surface means converging toward the inner opening and diverging toward an outer opening larger than the inner opening, wherein the strike portion of the keeper is channeled by the bolt guide means through the inner opening into latching engagement with the bolt upon closing the closure member with respect to the frame member, whereby any misalignment between the keeper and the bolt is compensated for by the loose mounting of the keeper and the beveled guide surface means. 17. The security device of Claim 16 wherein the mounting portion of the keeper is a resilient shank having one end free and having the strike portion at the other end and wherein the means for loosely securing the mounting means includes a first bracket loosely fitting over the shank between the free end and strike portion allowing the shank to move laterally within the bracket and a second bracket means engaging the shank adjacent the free end thereof. 18. The security device of Claim 17 further including a pin in slot connection between the shank and second bracket for allowing longitudinal movement of the shank relative to the bracket. 19. Apparatus for securing an emergency exit door wherein the door is hinged along one edge to a door frame means for latching the door panic bar means connected to the latching means for unlatching the latching means when force is applied to the bar delay means mounted on the door frame and separate from the latching means and panic bar means, said delay means including a closure operated bolt means which extends between the door frame and door for preventing the door from opening when projected and allowing the door to open when retracted, and means for retarding movement of the bolt means from the projected to the retracted position means for indicating that an attempt is being made to open the door while retraction of the bolt is being retarded means for bypassing the retarding means wherein the bolt means can move immediately from the projected position to the retracted position upon operating the bypassing means, and at least one emergency condition indicator connected to the bypassing means for operating the bypassing means upon occurrence of an emergency situation to allow the door to open upon pressing against the door. 20. The apparatus of Claim 19 wherein the delay means further includes base means for mounting the bolt means dogging means mounted between the bolt means and base means for movement between a dogging mode and undogging mode means for gradually displacing a fluid, said means being mounted between the dogging means and bolt means means for selectively retaining the dogging means in either the dogged mode or the undogged mode solenoid means for releasing the dogging means upon de energizing the solenoid means means for operating the release means, said operating means including an electrical timer and means for sensing when an attempt is made to open the door, said sensing means being connected to the timer for starting the timer to count a time interval upon an attempt to open the door and to thereafter interrupt current to the release means to undog the bolt whereby opening of the door is delayed after an attempt to open the door occurs. 21. The system of Claim 20 wherein the dogging means includes a toggle linkage which is held in a jambed position by the release means when the bolt is dogged and is allowed to collapse when the bolt is undogged. 22. The system of Claim 21 wherein the toggle linkage includes a first link pivoted to the base at one end and to the hydraulic delay means at the other end a second link pivoted at one end to the hydraulic means and at the other end to an actuator, and a third link pivoted at one end to the actuator rod and at the other end to the base, and wherein the solenoid means includes an armature connected at one end to the actuator means for limiting motion of the armature and thus the actuator in one direction to a point where the second and third links are at dead center while the first and second linds are in an overcenter configuration which overcenter configuration urges the second and third links to jam upon application of an opening force to the bolt. 23. The apparatus of Claims 20, 21 or 22 wherein the electrical timer includes means monitoring the bolt means for producing an electrical signal upon movement of the bolt means first timing means connected to the bolt monitoring means for providing an initiating signal after a first time interval in order to indicate that a serious attempt to open the door has occurred second timing means started by the initiating signal from the first timing means for emitting a release signal to the releasing means after expiration of a second time interval third timing means connected to the second timing means for maintaining the release signal for a third time period before re energizing the solenoid, and means for resetting the third timing means to rerun the third time period each time the door is closed. 24. The apparatus of Claims 20, 21 or 22 wherein the electrical timer includes timing logic circuitry a transformer for reducing the voltage of standard line current, the transformer having a pair of lines extending therefrom AC to DC conversion means connected to one line for supplying DC current to the timing logic circuitry a ten second counter included in the logic circuitry and connected to the other line and utilizing the AC current on the other line for counting an initial time interval of three to five seconds to determine if a serious attempt is being made to open the door a twelve bit counter included in the timing logic circuitry and also connected to the other line and utilizing the AC current for counting the time interval for delaying opening of the door AND gate means connected to outputs from the ten second and twelve bit counters, said AND gate means having outputs flip flop means connected to the outputs of the AND gate means, and transistor means connected to the outputs of the flip flop means for sounding the indicating means to signal that an attempt is being made to open the door and for interrupting current to the solenoid.

## Description
POINT OF EGRESS CONTROL DEVICE FOR SAFELY SECURING EMERGENCY EXIT DOORSParent Applications This application is a continuation in part of Serial Number 148,403, filed May 9, 1980, in the name of Emanuel L. Logan, Jr., now allowed, and SerialNumber 263,955 filed May 15, 1981, in the names ofEmanuel L. Logan, Jr., and James W. Walsh.Related Patent Applications Emergency Exit Door Latching and LockingApparatus , Serial Number 22,110, filed March 3, 1979 now allowed Point Of Egress Control Device for SecuringExit Doors Safely, Serial Number 929,968, filed August 1, 1978, now U.S. Patent 4,324,425 Magnetic Emergency Exit Door Lock System ,Serial Number 051,724, filed June 25, 1979, now U.S.Patent 4,257,631 and Timing Delay for Emergency Exit Doors , SerialNumber 125,995, filed February 29, 1980, now U.S. Patent 4,328,985. Timing Apparatus for Delaying Opening ofDoors , Serial Number 089,398, filed August 10, 1979, now U.S. Patent 4,314,722.Background of the Invention 1. Field of the Invention The instant invention relates to emergency exit door security systems, and more particularly, the instant invention relates to emergency exit door security systems wherein the system includes a time delay which delays opening of an emergency exit door for a predetermined interval, as long as there is no emergency condition.Upon the occurrence of an emergency condition, the door unlocks immediately. 2. Technical Considerations and Prior Art As is set forth in the aforecited U.S. patent applications and issued patents, there is a need for a new type of emergency exit door lock or latch which delays opening of an emergency exit door. In these patent applications, delay is accomplished by either throttling a fluid while an attempt is being made to open the door by initiating an electrical delay of a release mechanism after an attempt has been made to open the door, or by a combination of both the hydraulic and electrical delays. In each device disclosed in these patent applications, an emergency release is provided which allows the latches to release immediately upon the occurrence of an emergency situation. For example, the latches are connected to smoke detectors and pull boxes which, when activated, permit the latches to bypass any restraint on their opening.Moreover, when there is an interruption of electric current to these latches, the latches will allow the doors to open when pushed. In order to successfully commercialize the concepts disclosed in the aforecited patent applications, it was deemed advisable to simplify the latching mechanism so that the mechanism could be assembled from relatively inexpensive, stamped parts and from off the shelf, purchased parts. Moreover, the hydraulic circuits necessitated by utilizing solenoid operated valves in conjunction with hydraulic cylinders made the arrangements disclosed in these patent applications expensive while compromising reliability. In a system which has both a hydraulic delay and electronic delay, the electronic delay should ideally be completely independent of the hydraulic delay. However, in the systems disclosed in the aforecited patent applications, the electronic delay functions within the hydraulic system by opening a valve which lets hydraulic fluid bypass a throttle.Thus the two systems are not completely independent which compromises the device s redundancy. As is set forth in parent application SerialNumber 148,403, filed May 9, 1980, in the name ofEmanuel L. Logan, Jr., under certain circumstances it may be desirable to divorce the unlatching structure of a door, such as an emergency exit door, from the delay structure, so that the delay structure can be retrofitted on existing doors which already have their own hardware. Such an approach is disclosed inU.S. Patent 4,257,631 entitled Magnetic Emergency ExitDoor Lock With Delayed Opening and in copending patent application Serial Number 089,398, now U.S. Patent 4,314,722, entitled Timing Apparatus For Delaying OpeningOf Doors . Both of these approaches have disadvantages which may forestall their use. With a magnetic arrangement, there is a problem of residual magnetism which must be overcome in order to open a door even after the magnet is de energized.In the door closure type of delay device, the door is never completely free of the door closure jamb, which can interfere with ordinary operation of the door when the door operates in a non delay mode. Accordingly, there is a need for a delay apparatus which can be easily applied to emergency exit doors as a retrofit for existing installations or as an accessory for planned installations which also use conventional latching and locking hardware. As is apparent from the above discussions, it is desirable to both improve the locking or latching mechanism from the standpoint of both reliability and cost, and it is desirable to provide a delay mechanism which both operates effectively and can be retrofitted to existing exit doors.Summary of the Invention In view of the aforementioned considerations, it is an object of the instant invention to provide a new and improved delayed opening device for an emergency exit which is relatively inexpensive to manufacture, reliable, easy to install and can be retrofitted to existing doors. In view of the aforementioned considerations, the instant invention contemplates apparatus for securing an emergency exit door, which apparatus includes a delay having a closure operated bolt which extends between the door frame and the door wherein retraction of the bolt is retarded so as to delay opening of the door. Preferably, the delay includes independently redundant delay systems which insure opening of the door should one system fail. In a preferred embodiment of the invention, the bolt is mounted on the door jamb to engage a keeper which is mounted on the door. The instant invention further includes an adjustable keeper which is floatably mounted to accomodate inaccuracies of alignment with the bolt, but which locks up with the bolt in a substantially rigid relationship once it is engaged by the bolt. In addition, the instant invention includes the concept of delaying relatching of the door for a period of ten seconds after the door is shut, regard less of the time period between opening the door and shutting the door. If the door is opened during this ten second window and shut again, the ten second period begins anew. In order to utilize readily available line current in buildings which may only be wired for sixty hertz, 120 240 volt line current, the instant invention includes a transformer to step down the voltage. A sixty hertz signal from the transformer is then used to drive both a ten second counter and a twelve bit counter. In order to insure that the position of the bolt is known at all times by the logic of the system, a magnet is mounted on the bolt and a Hall Effect switch positioned adjacent to the bolt to monitor the movement and position of the bolt. A Hall Effect switch is also used to monitor the condition of a solenoid which is de energized to release a bolt.Brief Description of the Drawings Figure 1 is a perspective view of an emergency exit door having conventional panic bar hardware thereon and a retrofit emergency exit latch with a delay feature in accordance with the instant invention. Figure 2 is a rear view of the latch with portions cut away. Figure 3 is a side view, partially in crosssection, of the latch showing the latch in a latched or locked position. Figure 4 is a view similar to Figure 3, but showing the latch after an attempt has been made to open the door. Figure 5 is a view similar to Figure 3, but showing the latch after a solenoid has released the toggle mechanism so that the door can open. Figure 6 is a view similar to Figures 3 6, but showing the door opened. Figure 7 is a view similar to Figure 3, but showing the latch after the door has been shut. Figure 8 is a view similar to Figure 3 showing that the cycle is complete and that the door is now shut and latched with the armature of the solenoid drawn up. Figure 9 is a view similar to Figure 3, but showing operation of the hydraulic delay wherein the toggle mechanism is held jammed by the solenoid due to a malfunction of the solenoid. Figure 10 is a view showing the door in an open position after having throttled sufficient fluid to allow the latch to release when the solenoid has not released. Figure 11 shows the door closing while the solenoid is jammed and after the fluid has been throttled whereby force between a keeper on the door and a bolt in the latch returns a piston in the hydraulic throttling mechanism to the latched position. Figure 12 shows the latching mechanism again latched as in Figure 3. Figure 13 is a schematic view showing an electronic timing circuit which releases the solenoid after a predetermined time interval upon an attempt to open the door and shows emergency condition detection circuitry for de energizing the solenoid upon the occurrence of an emergency situation whereby the emergency exit door can open immediately. Figure 14 is a side view showing a second embodiment which is preferred of a keeper mounting arrangement and keeper guide in accordance with the instant invention. Figure 15 is a front view of the keeper shown in Figure 14. Figure 16 is a front view of the guide shown in Figure 14. Figures 17A and 17B are circuit diagrams showing the details of a now preferred embodiment of the circuitry shown in Figure 13. Figures 18A and 18B are circuit diagrams of a circuit having many of the components of Figures 17A and 17B but used to control a plurality of doors. Figure 19 is a planar view of a control panel for a plurality of doors. Figure 20 is a top view of a circuit board mounting the various components shown in Figures 17A, 17B, 18A and 18B. Description of the Preferred Embodiment Referring now to Figure 1, there is shown an emergency exit door 20 which is hinged to close against a door jamb 21 of a door frame 22. The door 20 is equipped with a conventional panic latch 23, which is unlatched by a conventional panic bar 24. A delay apparatus, designated generally by the numeral 25, is secured to the door frame 22 in an upper corner thereof adjacent the free edge of the door 20. When the door 20 is opened, it pivots about its hinged edge so as to move away from the delay apparatus 25. While the delay apparatus 25 is shown mounted in the corner of the door frame 22, it could be mounted at any convenient location, such as near the middle of the top frame member or along the vertical jamb so as to engage the free edge of the door. I Electo Mechanical Operation of Latch Referring now to Figures 2 through 12 in general, there is shown a housing, designated generally by the numeral 26, which defines a base 27 and includes a slot 28 through which the strike portion 29 of a keeper, designated generally by the numeral 30, is passed in order to lock the door. Preferably, the housing 26 is mounted on the door frame 22, and the keeper 30 is mounted on the door 20r so as to hold the door 20 against the door jamb 21 also see Figure 1 . The strike portion of the keeper 29 includes a recess 31 and a strike 32 which cooperate with a bolt, designated generally by the numeral 33. The bolt 33 is a closure operated swinging bolt which is pivoted on a pivot 34 that is secured to the base 27 of the housing 26. The bot includes a tooth 35 which projects into the recess 31 and an arm 37 on which is mounted a magnet 38 which cooperates with a Hall Effect switch 39 to indicate when an attempt is made to open the door.Moreover, the arm 37 is engaged by the strike 32 upon closing the door to rotate the bolt to its latched position as will be fully explained hereinafter . The bolt 33 is dogged in the position shown in Figure 3 also Figures 8 and 12 by a delay mechanism, which delay mechanism includes a hydraulic cylinder, designated generally by the numeral 41, and a solenoid, designated generally by the numeral 42, which solenoid is controlled by the circuitry of Figure 13, as will be explained hereinafter. The hydraulic cylinder 41 is connected to the solenoid 42 through a double toggle linkage 43. As will be explained hereinafter, solenoid 42 either jams the toggle linkage 43, as shown in Figures 3, 4, and 8 through 10, or breaks the toggle linkage, as is shown in Figures 5, 6 and 7. As has been briefly explained in the Background of the Invention , the instant invention utilizes a redundant delay system which includes throttling of the fluid in the hydraulic cylinder 41 and or a timed release effected by de energizing the solenoid 42.Preferably, the system will operate by de energizing the solenoid 42, but if for some reason the electrical system fails and the solenoid is not de energized, then a fluid is throttled in the hydraulic cylinder 41, and the door can still be opened after a period of time. As has been amply explained in the related patent applications, the door 20 will release immediately upon an interruption of power to the solenoid 42. This interruption is caused by either an expiration of a time interval set by the circuit inFigure 13 or the occurrence of an emergency condition detected by the circuit of Figure 13. Either of these conditions allow the solenoid to permit collapse the toggle linkage 43. Considering the latch delay mechanism 25 in more detail, the bolt 33 has an elongated slot 44 therein which receives a pin 45 of a clevis 46. The clevis 46 is rigidly attached to a piston rod 47 that, in turn, is secured to a piston 48 within the hydraulic cylinder 41. Ordinarily, the piston 48 is held in the position of Figures 3 8 by fluid on the bottom side 49 of the piston. The hydraulic cylinder 41 does not include a spring to project the piston rod 47 out of the cylinder. All flow of hydraulic fluid is contained within the cylinder 41. The cylinder 41 is pivoted by a pin 51 to a first toggle link, designated by the numeral 52, of the double toggle linkage 43. The toggle link 52 includes a first link 53, which is pivoted by a pin 54 to the base 27, and a second link 56, also pivoted on pin 51.The link 56 forms a second toggle link, designated generally by the numeral 57, with a third link 58, which is pivoted to link 56 by a pin 60 at one end and to the base 27 by a pin 61 at the other end. The second toggle link 57 is controlled by an actuator rod 63, which is pivotably mounted on the pin 60 at one end and pivoted at the other end by a pivot pin 66 to an armature 67 of the solenoid 42.The armature 67 is, in turn, positioned by either the coil 68 of the solenoid 42 or by a spring 69 which is overcome by applying current to the coil 68, so as to lock up the armature in the coil. Referring now to Figures 3 through 12 which show a complete cycle of the system upon using the solenoid 42 to release the system, when the door 20 is pushed in the direction of arrow 70 see Figure 4 the striker 29 of the keeper 30 moves to the right, which causes surface 71 on the recess 31 the striker to engage the tooth 35 and to rotate the bolt 33 in the direction of arrow 72. The elongated slot 44 in the bolt 33 drops down until the top end of the elongated slot hits the pin 45 on clevis 46, whereupon motion of the bolt 33 is arrested because hydraulic fluid in the hydraulic cylinder 41 becomes pressured. ten the bolt 33 has rotated from the Figure 3 to the Figure 4 position, the magnet 38 on the arm 37 is moved to operate the Hall Effect switch 39. This starts the timing circuitry of Figure 13. Preferably, the timing circuitry does not start its count for perhaps three to five seconds, so that only serious attempts to open the door will be recognized. The timing circuit runs for perhaps fifteen to thirty seconds, depending on its setting. In accordance with one embodiment of the inventor while the timing circuitry is running, the door can be returned from the Figure 4 position to theFigure 3 position, and the timing circuitry will continue to count. In accordance with another embodiment, the count stops when one releases pressure on the door.In any event, while the circuitry is counting, an alarm is ringing either over the door frame 22 or at a remote location or both indicating that someone is trying to open the door. After the count is finished, the timing circuitry cuts power to the coil 68, and the armature 67 moves from the Figure 4 position to the Figure 5 position under the bias of the coil spring 69.This causes the actuator rod 63 to push the second toggle link 57 overcenter from the straight position of Figure 4 to the collapsable position of Figure 5.Until the toggle linkage 57 has been pushed overcenter, any force on the bolt 33 due to pulling by the surface 71 on striker 29 on the tooth 35 is transmitted by the piston rod 47 and the hydraulic cylinder 41 to the toggle linkage 52, tending to collapse the toggle linkage 52 downwardly. This, of course, forces the actuator rod 63 upward and jams the armature 67 against a stop 75. However, once the linkage 57 is pushed overcenter, as is illustrated in Figure 5, motion by the door 20 in the direction of arrow 70 causes the striker 29 to collapse the toggle linkage 57. The latch bolt 33 and first and second toggle links 52 and 57, which make up the double toggle linkage 43, then move to theFigure 6 position in which the striker 29 is released and the door 20 opens.As will be explained further hereinafter and in accordance with one embodiment of the invention, power to the coil 68 remains off for perhaps ten seconds or so, so that the door 20 can continually open and shut for ten seconds after it has been initially opened. If an emergency situation occurs, then current to the coil 68 is interrupted, and the armature 67 is urged by the spring 69 to the position of Figure 5, while the bolt 33 remains in the position of Figure 3. Thereafter, when the door 20 is pushed so as to open the door, the bolt 33 will move continuously from theFigure 3 position through the positions of Figures 4 and 5 to the position of Figure 6, so as to allow the door 20 to open immediately. Upon closing the door 20 by moving the door in the direction of arrow 77, the strike 32 on the striker 29 hits the arm 37 and rotates the arm 37 from the Figure 6 position to the Figure 7 position.However, as is readily seen, Figure 7 is similar toFigure 5, with the exception that the bolt 33 is pushed back against the stop 37a. Spring 69 keeps the armature 67 projected from the coil 68 until the ten second interval for holding the delay apparatus unlatched expires. Upon expiration of the ten second interval, the coil 68 is energized which draws the armature 67 into the coil against the bias of spring 69. This pulls the second toggle link 57 straight and holds the link 57 straight due to engagement between the armature 67 and stop 75 see Fig. 8 . Figure 8 is similar in configuration to Figure 3. A second Hall Effect switch 80 is positioned adjacent to the solenoid 42 and detects the position of the armature 67. When the armature 67 is drawn up into the coil 68, then the Hall Effect switch 80 closes indicating, by appropriate means, that the door 20 is now locked. While it is preferable that the system operate by cutting power to the coil 68, it is conceivable that the timers might fail. It is also conceivable that the emergency interruption of power to the coil 68 of the solenoid 42 might not occur. As is seen in Figures 9 and 10, one can still open the door 20 by applying pressure thereto in the direction of the arrow 70. As is seen in Figure 9, if the solenoid 42 is energized, the second toggle linkage 57 cannot collapse. Accordingly, force applied by the surface 71 on the tooth 35 of the bolt 33 is transmitted by the piston rod 47 to the piston 48. The piston 48 is equipped with a one way valve 82 consisting of anO ring 83 which seals between the piston 48 and the hydraulic cylinder 41 when urged upwardly by fluid pressure. As is seen in Figure 11, the valve 82 opens when pushed downwardly by fluid pressure. This is due to the configuration of surface 85 on the side of the piston 48 and is a well known conventional structure for a one way valve within a hydraulic cylinder. Considering Figure 9 specifically, the piston 48 moves downwardly in the direction of arrow 87 which forces the hydraulic fluid in the hydraulic cylinder 41 through a snall orifice 89 in the piston 48 which throttles the fluid. Since the orifice 89 is small, it takes a considerable amount of time, perhaps fifteen to thirty seconds depending on the size of the orifice, to move enough fluid from the first side 49 of the piston 48 to the second side 91 of the piston to allow the bolt 33 to move from theFigure 9 position to the Figure 10 position. During this time because of a malfunction womewhere in the system , the solenoid 42 has remained energized.However, as is seen in Figure 10, the door 20 has opened anyway even though the electronics of Figure 13 have failed. Upon closing the door 20 by moving the door in the direction of arrow 95 in Figure 11, the strike surface 32 on the striker 29 of keeper 30 hits the arm 37 on the bolt 33 and rotates the bolt in the counterclockwise direction. This pulls the piston 48 bac up from the Figure 10 position toward the position of Figure 12. As is seen in Figure 11, while this is happening, the one way valve 82 allows the fluid to flow from side 91 of piston 48 around the outside of the piston to the space in the hydraulic cylinder adjacent to the side 49 of the piston. The bolt 33 is then returned to its locked position, as is seen inFigure 12 which is the same as Figures 3 and 8 . II General Operation of Circuitry Referring now to Figure 13, where as preferred arrangement for the control of the solenoid 42 is shown, the coil 68 of the solenoid is connected at one end to an emergency situation control circuit 100 and at the other end to a timing circuit 101.When energized, the coil retains the latch 25 in the latched mode by drawing the armature 67 up into the solenoid, as is seen in Figures 3, 8 and 12. The emergency situation circuit 101 includes a power supply 102, and optionally a central station control panel 103 which preferably includes switches for de energizing the solenoid remotely , fire boxes 104, and smoke detectors 105. These elements are connected in series with a dropout relay 106, which includes a manual reset switch 107. If either the fire boxes 104 or the smoke detector 105 indicate an emergency condition, the dropout relay 106 will be opened to cut off power from the power supply 102 to the coil 68 of the solenoid 42. Accordingly, the door 20 will open immediately if an emergency condition is sensed or if, for any reason, power to the solenoid 42 is interrupted. The manual reset switch 107, which can be located at the central station 103, must be operated in order to reclose the dropout relay 106. If an emergency condition persists, then the manual reset 107 cannot reset dropout relay 106. A visual indicator 108, in the form of a light, is provided at the central station 103 and perhaps adjacent to the door 20, so as to indicate whether the door is operating in an emergency mode or a delay mode. The coil 68 of the solenoid 42 is attached to ground through the emitter of a transistor 110 located in timing circuit 101. Normally, the transistor 110 is switched on so as to conduct power from power supply 102 to ground.However, when the transistor 110 is switched off, the coil 68 of the solenoid 42 is no longer energized because it is in effect released by the transistor allowing armature 67 to be urged outwardly by the spring 69. The timing circuitry 101 includes a three to five second timer 115, which is preferably set at three seconds a fifteen to thirty second timer 116, which is preferably factory set and a ten second timer 117, which is triggered by the timer 116 to turn off transistor 110 for a period of ten seconds.The timers operate in series and are connected to theHall Effect switch 39 positioned adjacent to the bolt 33 so as to be activated upon movement of the magnet 38 in juxta position with the Hall Effect switch 39.Moreover, the Hall Effect switch 39 is in series with the Hall Effect switch 80 which detects the position of armature 67 in the solenoid 42. Upon pushing the door 20 toward the open position, the bolt 33 is cammed from the Figure 3 to the Figure 4 position by the striker 29, whereupon the Hall Effect switch 39 operates which starts the three second timer 115 and which also lights visual indicators 125 which may be at the central station 103 or perhaps at the door 20. The Hall Effect switch 39 also energizes an audio indicator or alarm 126 located adjacent to the door 20, so as to indicate to the person trying to open the door and others in the vicinity that the door has been tampered with. Upon operating the Hall Effect switch 39, the first timer 115 is started and counts the time interval with a duration of three to five seconds. If the door is released before the three to five second interval expires, then the timer 115 is reset and will start all over again if the door is thereafter pushed. If the door is continually pressed for the three to five seconds, then the first timer 115 triggers the second timer 116 which runs for a period of fifteen to thirty seconds, the period being determined at the factory or during installation.In accordance with one embodiment of the invention, the timer 116 cannot be stopped or reset after being started. In other words, the operation is irreversable.Upon expiration of the time interval set by the timer 116 preferably fifteen to thirty seconds , the second timer 116 generates a release signal which triggers the third timer 117. The third timer 117 interrupts power to the base of transistor 110 for an interval of ten seconds. IVhile the transistor 110 is turned off, solenoid 42 will be de energized and the armature 67 will project due to urging of the spring 69, thereby allowing the door to open immediately. III Preferred Embodiment of the Keeper The keeper 30 is made of spring steel and is secured to the door 20 by shoulder bolts 150.The sholder bolts 150 are received in apertures 151 in an extended arm 153 of the keeper 30. The apertures 151 are larger than shoulders 154 on the shoulder bolts 150 so that the keeper is self adjusting. Preferably, the shoulder bolts 150 hold the arm 153 in frictional engagement with the surface of the door 20. Since the arm 153 is resilient, it will absorb forces applied to the door tending to open the door so as to act as a shock absorber and protect the lock mechanism in the housing 26. Figures 14, 15 and 16 disclose a keeper, designated generally by the numeral 160, and a keeper guide, designated generally by the numeral 161, which guides the keeper into the housing 26. As is seen inFigures 15 and 16, the keeper 160 is L shaped having a mounting shank 163 and a strike portion 164. The mounting shank 163 is retained by first and second brackets, designated generally by numerals 165 and 166, respectively. The bracket 165 includes a base plate 167 and a clamp plate 168 which fits over the base plate 167 and restrains the shank 163 midway between the ends of the shank. Both the base plate 167 and clamp plate 168 are held in place by screws 171 which pass through the clamp, through the base plate and into the door 20. The bracket 166 includes a base portion 172 and a stepped clamping portion 173. The stepped clamping portion 173 has a first flange 174 that has a slot 175 therein, which slot receives a pin 176.As is seen in Figure 16, the pin 176 is substantially smaller in cross section than the width or height of the slot 175 so as to accommodate limited motion of the mounting shank 163. The stepped clamping portion 173 also has a screw flange portion 178 which is joined to the flange 174 by step 179. The screw flange 178 is secured over the base 172 by a screw 180 which passes through the screw flange 178, through the base 172 and into the door 20. Since there is play between the shank 163 and the first and second brackets 165 and 166, the keeper 160 is free to move not only longitudinally in the direction of arrow 181 but also laterally in the direction of arrow 182. Accordingly, the keeper 160 can adjust itself with respect to the latch bolt 33 see Figures 2 12 inside of the case 26. In order to properly guide the projection portion 164 of the keeper 160, the case is equipped with a guide 161. The guide 161 is positioned within an opening 182 through sidewall 183 of the casing 26.The guide 161 is secured to wall 183 by a pair of mounting screws 184 and has an opening 185 therethrough which is surrounded by top and bottom beveled walls 186 and 187, respectively, and first and second beveled side walls 188 and 189, respectively. The side and top beveled walls 188, 189 and 186 project out beyond the wall 183 by a distance considerably greater than projection of the bottom wall 187 beyond the wall 186 in order to define a slot 191, which slot accommodates the shank portion 163 of the keeper 160. When the door 20 is shut, the beveled walls 186 189 cam the keeper portion 164 of the keeper 160 into the opening 185 so that the keeper 160 will align with the bolt 33 inside the housing 26 see alsoFigures 2 11 . The play provided by the loose mounting arrangement between the brackets 165 and 166 and shank 163 allows the position of the keeper 160 to be adjusted by the beveled surfaces 185 189 so that the keeper will be properly aligned. IV Detailed Descriptions of Control Circuits Figures 17A, 17B, 18A, 18B, 19 and 20 disclose details of one embodiment that the block diagram circuitry of Figures 13 and 14 may assume and includes departures in design and functipn from what is disclosed in Figures 13 and 14. Referring now to Figures 17A and 17B, wherein a single door control system is disclosed, a transformer 300 converts regular 60 cycle, 220 240 volt line current to 14 volt, 0.25 amp, 60 cycle current. The 60 hertz output from transformer 300 is applied over line 301 to connector TB1 through a three ampere fuse 303 and is applied over line 302 to a bridge rectifier 304, which bridge rectifier converts the AC supply current to DC. An MOV 305 is connected across the bridge rectifier 304 to prevent voltage surges in excess of 56 volts peak to peak.from passing through into the rest of the circuitry by blowing the fuse 303 upon the occurrence of such a surge.The DC output from bridge rectifier 304 is applied over line 308 where it is filtered by a capacitor C1 to a voltage regulator 311 that controls the input voltage to the logic circuitry. Resistors R9 and R8 serve as voltage dividers which set the voltage output from regulator 311 at a specific voltage level suitable for the logic circuitry.Capacitors C2 and C3 further filter the output from voltage regulator 311. The 60 cycle AC signal on line 301 is applied to input pins 10 of a ten second counter IC1 and a twelve bit counter IC2 in order to provide these counters with a driving pulse. Before describing the logic circuitry components in detail, it is necessary to briefly describe the inputs from the lock itself, which is designated generally by the numeral 320. In accordance with the preferred embodiment, the output of the HallEffect switch 39 over line 321 goes low upon moving the magnet 38 preferably a rare earth magnet relative to the Hall Effect switch upon closing the door. The low on line 321 applies a low to both pins 1 and 2 of inverting AND gate IC4 A which produces a high output on pin 3 out over line 322. The high on pin 3 also applies a high to pin 11 of 12 bit counter IC2 which locks the 12 bit counter IC2 in a reset mode.The output over line 322 is also applied to pin 4 of flip flop IC5 A and to pin 9 of inverting AND gate IC4 B which results in a high on output pin 10 of the gateIC4 B, the output of which is applied over line 334 to pin 11 of a 10 second counter IC1. The high on line 334 holds the 10 second counter IC1 in a reset mode. When the magnet 38 is moved or repositioned with respect to the Hall Effect switch 39 upon opening the door, a high signal is applied to pins 1 and 2 ofIC4 A. This produces a low output on line 322, which low is applied to pin 11 of 12 bit counter IC2 and starts the count. Counter IC2 is programmed for initiating the start of the 3 second nuisance time interval or the 15 or 30 second time delay before allowing the bolt 33 to be released by,solenoid 42 also see Figures 3 13 . The AC signal from the transformer 300 applied over line 301 is applied to pin 10 of the tensecond counter IC1. The signal on line 301 is a 60hertz signal which the ten second counter IC1 divides.The ten second counter IC1 will count 675 cycles before resetting. Normally, in order to provide an output at three seconds, 180 cycles would be counted, but since there are only three gates available, 180 cycles is the maximum resolution and therefore the output occurs at 2.97 seconds instead of three seconds. At 2.97 seconds, pins 3, 2 and 13 of twelve bit counter IC2 provide an output to AtID gate IC3 A, which gives a high output from pin 6 which is applied over line 341 to pin 3 of flip flop IC5A Fig. 17B . Flip flop IC5A then provides a high output on pin 1 which is applied through a 10K resistor R3 to transistor Q1. The emitter of transistor Q1 applies a voltage over line 344 to a door horn 346 physically located at the door 20 via junction 1 of a bus 347. Accordingly, the horn 346 which is equivalent an aural indicator of Figure 13, sounds if the door is pressed against for three seconds, so as to displace the magnet 38 with respect to the Hall Effect switch 39 for a period of three seconds. The three second delay before sounding the horn 346 allows the system to discriminate between a serious attempt to open the emergency exit door and a nuisance. The signal applied to pin 10 of ten second counter IC1 and pin 10 of twelve bit counter IC2 continues the count in IC2 for generating an output on pins 13, 12 and 14 in order to de energize the solenoid 42 to release the bolt 33 and allow the door to open. If a 30 second delay is desired, rather than a 15 second delay, then pin 15 of IC2 is connected to AND gate IC3B. The release signal from AND gate IC3 B is transmitted to de energize solenoid 42 by placing a high on the pin 10 which is transmitted over the line 355 to pin 11 of flip flop IC5 B. The output on pin 10 of flipflop IC5B is applied over line 358 to turn on transistorQ3, which in turn switches off a power transistor Q2 that is connected to the solenoid 42 by line 360.When power is cut to the solenoid 42 by turning off power transistor 02, the solenoid allows the toggle linkage holding the bolt 33 in a projected position to collapse so that the door will open. When the door is shut after being opened, the magnet 38 is again aligned with Hall Effect switch 39.This causes a low output by the Hall Effect switch 39 to be applied over line 321, and this low is applied to pins 1 and 2 of AND gate IC4 A. This causes pin 3 on MW gate IC4 A to go high, putting a high on line 322, which high is applied to pin 11 of twleve bit counter IC2 to reset IC2. In addition, the high on line 322 is applied to pin 4 of flip flop IC5 A in order to reset the flipflop. Moreover, the high on line 322 is applied to pin 9 of AND gate IC4 B, which also has a high on pin 8 due to a signal from AND gate IC4 C which has been pulsed by a low from pin 12 of flip flop IC5 B. The low on output pin 10 of AND gate IC4 B is applied over line 334 to pin 11 of ten second counterIC1, which low releases the ten second counter from theAC line 301 applied to pin 10 of the 10 second counter. The input signal on pin 11 of ten second counterIC1 causes the counter to begin counting a 10 second time period. When the 10 second time period is detected by pins 1, 2 and 3 of inverting AND gate IC3 C, a high output occurs at pin 9 of IC3 C which is applied over line 367 to pin 10 of the flip flop ICSB to reset the flip flop. When the flip flop IC5B is reset, pin 13 will go low and transistor Q3 will go low to turn on power transistor Q2. When power transistorQ2 is turned on, current will pass through line 360 and energize the solenoid 42 so as to relock the door. In addition, as pin 13 of flip flop 1C5 B goes low, a low is applied to pin 6 of flip flop IC5A, which is in the set condition, while a high is applied to pin 4 of flip flop IC5A from line 322, which is a reset. At this point, the flip flop IC5A resets causing pin 1 to go low and apply a low over line 370 to the base of transistor Q1, switching the transistor off and cutting current to line 344 which turns off the horn 346. If the door is shut and the lock is closed, and one wishes to check the system out, the central alarm or smoke detector 105 has contacts 105 A therein which, when opened, causes an optical transistor 372 to have a low output on pin 4 which applies a low to pins 12 and 13 of AND gate IC4 D Fig. 17B . This causes AND gate IC4 D to have a high output on pin 11, which high output is applied over line 378 to pin 8 of flip flop IC5 B to set the flip flop. Upon setting the flip flopIC5 B, pin 13 goes high and a high is applied to transsistor Q3 and to pin 6 of flip flop IC5 A. This in turn causes pin 1 of flip flop IC5 A to go high and turn on transistor Q1. When Q1 is turned on, the horn or alarm 346 is energized and sounded. Since pin 13 of IC5B is high, transistor Q3 is turned on which grounds power transistor Q2 thereby turning off power transistorQ2 and releasing solenoid 42 by cutting current to line 360. Consequently, the solenoid 42 collapses the linkage 57 allowing the bolt 33 to open upon pressure being placed against the door 20 so as to pull keeper 29 from the bolt 33. In addition, as pin 13 goes low, a low is applied to pin 6 of flip flop IC5 A, which is in the set condition, while a high is applied to pin 4 of flip flop IC5 A from line 322, which is a reset. At this point, the flip flop IC5 A resets causing pin 1 to go low and apply a low over line 370 to the base of transistor Q1, switching the transistor off and cutting current to line 344 which turns off the horn 346. In order to facilitate testing or to compensate for false alarms, as soon as the contacts 105 A in the smoke detector 105 close, a low is placed on line 371 connected to pin 2 of the optical transistor 372 Fig. 17B which causes the infrared diode 372A in the transistor to glow turning on the transistor. This places a high on pin 4 of the transistor and a high on pins 12 and 13 of AND gate IC4 D. Pin 11 of AND gate IC4 then goes low applying a low signal over line 378 to pin 8 of flip flop IC5 B which sets the flip flop. When the flip flop IC5 B is set, the horn 346 ceases sounding and the solenoid 42 is re energized. Pin 12 of the flip flop IC5 B was low so that the pins 5 and 6 ofAND gate IC4 C, by virtue of having a low thereon, produce a high at pin 4 of AND gate IC4 C and input pin 8 of AND gate IC4 B. The high at pin 9 of AND gate IC4 B is already high due to the lock being in its original reset condition which causes a low on output pin 10 ofAND gate IC4 B, which low is applied over line 334 to pin 11 of ten second counter IC1 so as to release the ten second counter. Pins 3, 4 and 5 of counterIC1 will then apply highs to the input pins 1, 2 and 3 of AND gate IC3 C which causes pin 9 of AND gateIC3 A to apply a high over line 367 that resets flipflop IC5 B through pin 10 of the flip flop. As explained before, when flip flop IC5 B is reset, the horn 346 is turned on and the solenoid 42 is deenergized allowing the door to open. This is the end of the cycle. when the circuit is initially energized, it often takes 10 seconds to lock the lock 25 and put the circuit in a functioning mode. The system goes into automatic reset upon power failure or upon initial starting of the system. This reset mode has a 10second time interval. If the door 20 see Figures 1 12 is pushed and held for more than three seconds, the Hall Effect switch 39 goes high putting a high on pins 1 and 2 ofAND gate IC4 A which causes output pin 3 to go high, placing a high on lines 322 so as to release the twelve bit counter IC2 causing a count to be entered from outside the clocking source. When three seconds is decoded by the ten second counter IC1, the horn 346 will sound. If the door is released before the time delay of 15 or 30 seconds, whichever is selected, the Hall Effect switch 39 will apply a low to pins 1 and 2 of AND gate IC4 A causing pin 3 to go high. When pin 3 goes high, a high is applied to line 322 which places a high on reset pin 11 of twelve bit counter IC2.The count then ceases which, as explained before, cuts power to the horn 346 and resets the entire system. Consequently, nuisance situations are minimized by configuring the circuitry so that it responds only to a real effort to open the door.If one simply hits the bar,. the horn 346 does not sound and the count does not start. The count starts only after a three second interval. In accordance with this embodiment, if one releases the door after the three second interval, then the count must start again. V Circuitry for Multiple Door Security Referring now more specifically to Figures 18A and 18B which discloses circuitry for a multiple door arrangement, the basic operation is essentially the same as with the circuit of Figures 17A and 17B.With the arrangement of Figures 18A and 18B, a plurality of doors 20 eight are shown are controlled by a single master control panel such as that shorn inFigure 19. As is seen in Figure 19, the master control panel includes a plurality of sections 401a 401n four of which are shown and a power section 410. The power section includes a light 411, an on off switch 412 indicating whether or not the power is on or off, a fire alarm indicator light 413 and a speaker 414 which gives an audible alarm at the central station when an attempt is being made to open one of the doors in the array. Each of the sections 401a 401n includes an on off switch 420, a yellow LED 421, a green LED 422 and a red LED 423. The green LED 422 monitors the current to the solenoid 42 and remains lit as long as the solenoid is energized. Accordingly, the condition of the door can be monitored from the central station. As is seen in Figure 18A which shows the circuitry for a single door , the green lamp 422 is inserted in line 360 between the solenoid 42 and power resistor Q2. When there is insufficient current flowing from the power transistor Q2 to the solenoid 42, the green lamp 422 will not be lit indicating that there is a problem at the door. The yellow trigger light LED 421 Figure 18A becomes lit when someone has pressed the door for a period greater than three seconds. The yellow trigger light 421 is connected to the emitter of transistor Q1 and sounds at the same time that the horn 414 sounds, indicating that an attempt at egress is occurring.While the yellow trigger light 421 is lit and the horn 414 at the console is sounding, the horn 346 at the door also sounds notifying people in the vicinity of the door and the person trying to open the door that an attempt to open the door is occurring. When the door finally opens, the red LED 423 lights concurrently with lighting of yellow LED 421 and sounding of the horns 346 and 414. When a fire alarm has been sounded to release all of the doors in the bank of doors, the light 413 in the power section 410 is turned on. If it is desired to release all of the doors simultaneously, a master switch 430 in the power section is thrown which extinguishes the green light of LED 411. In addition a switch 432 is associated with each individual section 401a 401n for releasing the doors individually. In the multiple door system of Figures 18A and 18B, a clock circuit, designated generally by the numeral 435, is connected by a line 436 to pin 10 of IC2. The clock circuit 435 utilizes a semiconductor chip 437 IE 5369 that has a square wave 60 Hz output which is applied instead of the 60 Hz input over line 301 utilized when just a single door is being secured with the system. The input voltage to the power section is controlled by an input circuit 440 which changes a 24 volt DC input from jacks 443 to 12 volts which is applied to various points in the circuit ofFigures 18A and 18B. In the embodiment disclosed, a 7812c terminal regulator 441 provides the 12 volt output at 1.5 amps. A 1000 microfared capacitor 442 is used to filter out irregular line current. By utilizing the input regulator, 12 volts can be supplied with a variation of approximately 10 . Referring now to Figure 20, the following components are mounted on each circuit board to contrust the circuitry of Figures 17A and 17B and to an extent Figure 18A. Quantity Part Number Description 1 Connector J1 1 4PCV08 Terminal Strip, TB1 2 102071 Fuse Holder 1 312004 Fuse, 3 Amp F1 1 6130 14 Heat Sink 1 CN15C220K Capacitor, 20PF C5 3 CY20C104M Capacitor,.lUF C2,C3,C4 1 SM25T33000MC Capacitor, 3300UF C1 1 4N33 Opto Isolator OP1 1 V68ZA2 Metal Oxide Varistor NOV 1 DL005 Bridge Rectifier BR1 1 78LO5CPL Voltage Regulator VR1 1 MPSA05 Transistor Q3 1 T1P120 Transistor Q2 1 2N2222A Transistor Q1 1 1N4005 Diode Dl 1 4013 Flip Flop IC5 1 4093 Quad Input IC4 1 4073 3 Input AND Gate IC3 2 4040BE 12 Bit Counter IC1,IC2 1 Resistor, 68K R10 3 Resistor, IK R5 ,R6 ,R7 3 Resistor, lOK R3 ,R4 ,R9 2 Resistor, 2.2K R2,R8 1 Resistor, 27K R1 1 D094 050 Printed Wiring Bd. VI Summary of Disclosure With respect to the single door system disclosed in Figures 17A and 17B in conjunction with the structure of Figures 1 16, the following sequence of events occurs Elapsed Time Action Sequence 1 0 seconds panic bar 24 pushed 2 3 seconds local alarm 126 Fig. 13 , 346 Fig. 17B sounded 3 15 30 seconds bolt 33 releases keeper 29 see Figs. 2 13 4 Loss of power at any time results in immediate unlatching of the security device. 5 Activation of a central alarm 104 or smoke detector 105 results in immediate unlatching of the security device 25 6 In the event that all other emergency overrides fail, the independent and redundant hydraulic override system allows the door 20 to open in thirty seconds when fifteen pounds of opening force is applied to the door. With respect to the multiple door system of Figures 18A, 18B and 19 in conjunction with the structure of Figures 1 16, the following sequence of events occurs Elapsed Time Action Sequence 1 0 seconds panic bar 24 is pushed central station green lights 411 and 422 are on 2 3 seconds local alert 346 sounded central station alert activated central station yellow trigger light 420 comes on central station green light 422 stays on. 3 15 or 30 latch bolt 33 releases seconds keeper 29, door opens central station alert continues local alert 346 continues central station green secure lights 422 and 411 turned off central station yellow trigger light 420 is turned off central station unlocked light 423 is turned off. Elapsed Time Action Sequence 4 25 40 system resets and central seconds de station green secure pending on light 422 is turned on setting of local 346 and central time 3 station alerts are turned off central station red un locked light 423 is turned off. 5 Loss of power at any time results in immediate unlatching of the security device 25. 6 Activation of a central alarm system, such as smoke, heat or fire alarms or a sprinkler, results in immediate un latching of the security device 25. 7 In the event that all other emergency overrides fail, the independent and redundant hydraulic override system allows the door 20 to open in thirty seconds when fifteen pounds of opening force is applied to the door. The aforedescribed examples and embodiments are illustrative of various forms that the invention may assume, and the invention is limited only by the following claims. It vill be understood that whilst the above discussion in relation to a particular form of the emergency exit door securing system has been particularly discussed in relation to a displaceable bolt form of door latching the principles of the invention could be used with electomagnetic arrangements in which the latching effects are obtained by the establishment of a magnetic force between means on the door member and the frame member for the purposes of locking and the removal of such magnetic force when it is desired to release the door member from the frame member.