# Rotary tool for high speed machining of wood, plastics or light metals.

## Abstract
The invention concerns means to clamp inserts in rotating tools, and advantageously in rotating tools employed in processing of wood, plastics or light metals, whereby said rotating tools travel at a very high speed and the inserts 23 can be re used and readily replaced, said clamping means being characterized by the fact that in the tool holder 10 there is envisaged a plurality of housing spaces 11 which have a shape substantially like a truncated cone and which widen towards the middle of said tool holder 10 , whereby a seating 14 for a tool is positioned at the side of said housing space 11 and a clamping body 17 is located in said housing space 11 and cooperates with at least one resisting block 18 , and whereby at least said resisting block 18 cooperates with a regulating screw 19 able to exert on said resisting block 18 and on said clamping body 17 a lateral thrust such as will constrain said resisting block 18 against the opposing wall 12 of said housing space 11 and will constrain said clamping body 17 against said insert 23 and substantially towards the middle of said tool holder 10 .

## Claims
C L A I M S I. Means to clamp inserts in rotating tools, and advant . .ageously in rotating tools employed in the processing of wood, plastics or light metals, whereby said rotating tools .travel at a very hisrh speed and the inserts 23 can be re . .used and readily replaced, said clamping means being char . .acterised by the fact that in the tool holder IO there is .envisaged a plurality of housing spaces II which have the shape substantially of a truncated cone and which widen to .wards the middle of the tool holder IO , whereby a seating . I4 for a tool is positioned at the side of said housing space 11 and a clamping body I7 is located in said hou .sing II and cooperates with at least one resisting block . I8 , and whereby at least the resisting block I8 cooper .ates with a regulating screw I9 able to exert on said re .sisting block I8 and on said clamping body I7 a lateral .thrust such as will constrain said resisting block I8 against the opposing wall I2 of said housing II and will. .constrain said clamping body I7 against said insert 23 .and substantially towards the middle of said tool holder IO . . 2. Means to clamp inserts in rotating tools as in Claim .I, characterised by the fact that the conformation of the .housing spaces II substantially like a truncated cone has the effect that, as the wall I6 supporting the insert 23. .is positioned substantially parallel to a plane passing thr .ough the axis of the tool holder IO , the opposing wall 1.2 .cuts said plane in a position a great deal above the middle .of the tool holder IO . 3. Means to clamp inserts in rotating tools as in Claim I or 2, characterised by the fact that the clamping body 17 .comprises lengthwise hollow means 32 substantially normal. .to the opposing wall I2 and having two opposing surfaces . 22 disposed as counterparts of each other. 4. weans to cle inserts in rotating tools as in Claim. I or in one or the other of the Claims thereafter, charact ised by the fact that two resisting blocks I8 cooperate in the lengthwise hollow 32 comprised in the clamping body I7 with opposing surfaces I22 and with a regulating sc rew I9 having a righthand and a lefthand thread. 5. Gleans to clamp inserts in rotating tools as in Claim I or in one or another of the Claims thereafter, characterised by the fact that the clamping body I7 cooperates with safety pin means 27 , whereby said means 27 anchor the regulating screw I9 and advantageously protrude elastically into the lower part of said clamping body I7 so as to cooperate with the bottom of the housing space II . 6. Iileans to clamp inserts in rotating tools as in ClaimI and in one or another of the Claims thereafter, characterised by the fact that the safety pin means 27 cooperate with anchorage ring means 20 located on the regulating screw means 19 . 7. Leans to clamp inserts in rotating tools as in Claim. I and in one or another of the Claims thereafter, characterised by the fact that the regulating screw means I93 cooperate at their side with hollow means providing lengthwise anchorage 21 comprised in the clamping body I7 . 8. Means to clamp inserts in rotating tools as in ClaimI and in one or another of the Claims thereafter, characterised by the fact that the resisting block means 2I83 are one in number and cooperate in a lateral and higher position with clamping body means II7 by means of regulating screw means I93 and with sliding and facing sides 31 Figs.5 6 . 9. Means to clamp inserts in rotating tools as in ClaimI and in one or another of the Claims thereafter, characterised by the fact that the resisting block means 3I8 com prise two sides l 93 having a hollow between them 29 and bound together by screw means 219 and having oblique sides 131 cooperating wedge wise with the clamping body 217 Figs.7 8 .

## Description
Description of the invention entitled IiEANS TO CLAl 2 INSERTS IN ROTATING TOOLS in the nane of STARK S.p.A. at Trivignano Udinese This invention concerns means to clamp inserts in rotate ing tools. To be more exact, this invention concerns means to clamp.inserts in rotating tools which are employed advantageously for the processing of wood or plastics, or,in any case, in tools which rotate at high speed. It is known that the clamping of inserts is a grave pro blem for the safety of machine operatives and for the accurate alignment and balancing of the tools themselves. Lastly, the clamping of the tools is reflected in the quality of the finished product. At the speeds at which the tools rotate nowadays, their clamping has become an important feature in that the inserts have been standardised and have reached an optimal level of performance. The problems to be overcome in up to date clamping means are manifold and indeed it is necessary to be able to obtain clamping means which are strong and stable enough to withstand all kinds of vibration. It is necessary to provide clamping means which do not need to be removed during assembly and dismçntling. Clumping means have to be provided which align and secure the insert automatically. It is necessary to provide clamping means which, owning to .their very nature, constrain the insert with an action that opposes centrifugal force.. It is also necessary to provide clamping means which do not leave their housing even if they have been badly secured. All these purposes together with further purposes and advantages are pursued by the invention according to this de scription. According to the invention a housing space is envisaged which has the shape substantially of a truncated cone and which vwidens towards the middle of the tool holder. At the side of the housing space is envisaged a suitable seating space for the tool, and said seating is dimensioned and positioned perfectly in relation to the middler or the tool itself so that, when said seating supports the tool or insert, said tool or insert is located perfectly in relation to the middle of the tool holder and therefore in relation to the plurality of other tools or inserts. Into said housing space are introduced at least two bodies which cooperate with each other by means of screw means,where by the reciprocal action carried out by the screw means is such as to thrust one body towards an opposing wall, whereas the other body, the so called clamping body, is thrust towards the insert. At the same time the insert is pushed by said latter body with a thrust substantially towards the middle of the tool holder.. According to a first formulation of the invention the clamping body has two clamping surfaces that cooperate with resisting blocks on which a regulating screw having a light hand thread and a lefthand thread acts. By turning the screw said resisting blocks can be brought nearer to or farther from each other. The action of said resisting blocs on the opposing sur faces causes a sideways thrust towards the middle of the tool holder. This is so because, by pressing against the opposing .wall, said blocks constrain the clamping body to move side .ways towards the insert and substantially towards the middle of the tool holder.. According to this preferential embodiment the regulating screw comprises in an intermediate position a ring which provides lengthwise anchorage and which can cooperate with an anchorage hollow that may possibly be included in the clamping body.. Substitute means can also be visualised.Said anchorage ring can cooperate with a safety pin which holds the regulating screw onto the clamping body and which can exert at the same time on the clamping body an outwards thrust that constrains said clamping body to be embedded in the housing space. According to another variant the anchorage ring has an intermediate hollow within which the safety pin is made to pass. According to a further variant the opposing surfaces are not linear but have a substantially rounded development so as to reduce to a minimum the necessity for accurate mating. This makes it possible to maintain at the same time a thrust strong enough to obtain an almost irreversible clamping condition when the forces in question are taken into account. Ibreover, the area of contact between the resisting block and the opposing wall may possibly be suitably shaped. According to a second further embodiment the resisting block cooperates with a screw located in an almost radial position nd acting on both the resisting block and the clamp ping body at the same time. Thus, by acting on said screw the two elements are moved towards e ch other or one of them is moved in direction opposite to the other, thus constraining the clamping body to thrust the insert downwards and sideways and keeping it in the right position in relation to the seating of the tool.. According to yet another embodiment the resisting block comprises a slit such that the walls of the block itself are made elastic.. Rhen a screw is caused to act on said walls, a union substantially with the shape of a truncated cone between the re sistine block and the clamping body forces the clamping body itself to move sideways and downwards and thus constrains the insert to be secured perfectly within the seating of the tool. The invention is therefore embodied in means to clamp inserts in rotating tools, and advantageously in rotating tools employed in the processing of wood, plastics or light metals, whereby said rotating tools travel at a very high speed and the inserts can be re used and readily replaced, said clamping means being characterised by the fact that in the tool holder there is envisaged a plurality of housing spaces which have the shape substantially of a truncated cone and which widen towards the middle of the tool holder, whereby a seating for a tool is positioned at the side of said housing spa ce and a clamping body is located in said housing space and cooperates with at least one resisting block, and whereby at least the resisting block cooperates with a regulating screw able to exert on said resisting block and on said clamping body a lateral thrust such as will constrain said resisting block against the opposing wall of said housing space and wi11 constrain said clamping body against the insert and substantially towards the middle of the tool holder. Let us now see socie preferential lay outs of the invention with the help of the attached table, which gives some non restrictive e anples. The table contains the following Fig.I gives a vertical section of a possible embodiment of the invention Fig.2 shows the embodiment of Fig.I according to a length wise section Fig.3 shows a variant evolved from Fig.1 Fig.4 shows an evolutive variant of the regulating screw Fig.5 shows the embodiment of another variant Fig.6 shows the embodiment of another variant in relation to Fig.5 Figs.7 8 show a section and a side view of another variant. so itch reference to the figures, the tool holder IO comprises a housing space II with an opposing wall I2 and a supporting wall I3 lateral seating I4 for a tool is provided in the supporting wall I3. Said seating I4 for a tool includes a supporting corner I5 and a wall I6 supporting an insert. The conformation of the housing II substantially like a truncated cone has the effect that, as the wall 16 supporting the insert 23 is substantially parallel to a plane pass ing through the axis of the tooliholder IO, the opposing wall I2 will cut said plane at a position a great deal above the middle of the tool holder IO. The wall I6 supporting the insert and the supporting corner of said seating I4 for a tool are positioned perfectly in relation to the centre of rotation of the tool holder IO. A clamping body I7 is introduced within the housing II and, in the example of Fig.I, comprises a lengthwise hollow 32 in which are located two resisting blocks I8 II8 cooperating with a regulating screw I9 having a righthand and a lefthand thread. Said regulating screw 19 includes a ring 20 for lengthwise anchorage, and said ring 20 cooperates with a hollow 21 for .lengthvsise anchorage formed in the clamping body 17. Opposing surfaces 22 are provided in the lengthwise hollow 32 of the clamping body 17 and cooperate with respective .resisting surfaces I22 formed on the resisting blocks 18. Thus when the regulating screw I9 is turned, the resist .ing blocks I8 are, for instance, drawn towards each other and the respective resisting surfaces I22 press on the opposing surfaces 22 of the clamping body I7. his pressure constrains the resisting blocks I8 to move .sideways until they rest against the opposing wall I2. As soon as said resisting blocks 18 rest against the op .posing wall I2, they constrain the clamping body I7 to move .in its turn. The position of the opposing wall I2 conditions the char .acteristics of the movement of the clamping body 17. VMen the clamping body 17 moves, it acts on the insert 23 or tool having a reusable and replaceable tip.Said tool 23 comprises one or more holes 24 which cooper .ate with appropriate pins 25 solidly fixed to the clamping body 17. Owing to the action of the resisting blocks I8 against the .clamping body I7 the pin 25 rests against the bottom of the hole 24 and engages the insert 23.This action constrains the insert 23 to rest perfectly .against the wall I6 and at the same time against the corner .I5 and to be positioned perfectly in relation to the middle .of the tool holder IO and to the other tools. The clamping body I7 is advantageously envisaged as com .prising a protective outlet 26 which cooperates with the cut .ting edge of the insert 23 lying against the supporting corner 15. So as to prevent the legulating screw I9, and therefore .the resisting blocks IS, fror.l becoming detached possibly from the clamping body I7 during movement, it is possible to vis .ualise a safety pin 27 which engages the clamping body I7 and the regulating screw I9. It is possible to obtain an auxiliary safety function with said safety pin 27 if said safety pin protrudes from the los .er side of the body I7 and cooperates with the bottom of the housing II. . In such a case, if the safety pin 27 is elastic enough and is made to work by bending against the bottom of the housingII, it will constrain the clamping body I7 with an outwards.thrust. This makes it possible to ensure a grip and security which could not be obtained otherwise in the case of imperfect cla moping by the resisting blocks I8. Said safety pin 27 can be single, as in Fig.I, or doubles .as in Fig.3, or can have other suitable shapes according to the requirements of the design. According to a variant the ring 20 providing lengthwise anchorage and comprised in the regulating screw I9 can have an intermediate hollow 28 within which the safety pin 27 is. made to lodge in this way the hollow 21 providing lengthwise .anchorage is rendered substantially useless.The embodiment now shown entails a movement substantially .parallel to the axis of rotation of the tool holder IO. With the invention, however, it is also possible to obtain clamping of the inserts 23 by making use of an action of the resisting blocks 218 in a substantially radial direction.This too is due to the reciprocal disposition of the wall 12 and wall I3 in relation to the centre of rotation of the .tool holder IO. Indeed, as can be seen in Figs.5 6, a clamping action can be obtained which is in principle substantially the same as that of Fig.I but which is substantially different as an .embodiment to be applied. According to said variants the resisting block 2I8 is th .rust towards the opposing wall I2 by screw means II9, which also have a righthand and a lefthand thread and which engage .the resisting block 2I8 and the clamping body II7 at one and the same time. In this way the clamping body II7 is thrust not only to .wards the supporting wall I3 but also towards the insert 23. and constrains said insert 23 to rest against the supporting .corner I5. The difference between the lay outs of Figs.5 6 lies .substantially in greater security of the invention in the ex ample of Fig. 6. In fact, the twofold inclination permits safer and more longlasting anchorage in the long term even when there are vibrations. Indeed, the reciprocal sliding wall 31 of Fig.5 is sub stantially parallel to the wall I3, whereas there is an angle .between said walls in Fig.6. In the examples of Figs.7 8 the resisting block 318 comprises a hollow which enables the two sides A B of the blo .ck itself to bend in relation to each other, whereby the sideB is able to lodge the head 30 of the screw 230, whereas the side A can lodge the threaded part I30 thereof.When the screw 2I9 is turned, the two sides A B of the resisting block 218 tend to come nearer to each other. This action is opposed by the presence of the body 2I7, which is thrust towards the insert 23, whereas the resisting block 3I8 is thrust towards the wall I2, the two oblique si .des I3I acting as wedge means. We have described herein some preferential embodiments, but variants are possible and it can be seen that some ernbod ents are suitable for wide tools and others for narrow tools whereas others again are suitable for very narrow tools. Thus, the proportions, sizes and parts can be varied and. various parts can be combined together according to the in .ventions. It is possible to visualise that the opposing surfaces 22122 are rounded or crown shaped it can be envisaged that the .sliding surfaces 31 between the body 218 and body 2I7 may .possibly have a special shape, and so forth. These and other variants are all possible for a technician in this field. K