# 1,1 Bis phenylalkan 1 ols and processes for their preparation.

## Abstract
These compounds have the formula The compounds are intermediates for the preparation of fungicidal compounds.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A compound of the formula I EMI9.1 wherein R and R , which may be the same or different, are hydrogen or alkyl, X, Y and Z ape each independently hydrogen, chlorine or fluorine, rovided that when R, P and Z are hydrogen, X and Y are not both hydrogen or both fluorine. 2. A compound according to claim 1 in which at least one of X, Y and Z is chlorine or fluorine. 3. A compound according to claim 1 or 2 in whichR and R1 are both hydrogen. 4. 1 2 chlorophenyl 1 4 fluorophenyl ethanol. 5. 1 4 fluorophenyl 1 4 chlorophenyl ethanol. 6. 1 2 chlorophenyl 1 4 chlorophenyl ethanol. 7. 1 2 fluorophenyl 1 4 fluorophenyl ethanol. 8. 1 2,4 dichlorophenyl 1 4 fluorophenyl ethanol. 9. A process for the preparation of the compounds of formula I in claim 1 which comprises reacting an alkyl magnesium halide of formula II RR1MCMg.Hal II with a benzophenone of formula III EMI10.1 wherein R, R , X, Y and Z have the meanings given in claim 1 and Hal is chlorine, bromine or iodine. 10. A process for the preparation of the compounds of formula I in claim 1 which comprises reacting a compound of formula VII EMI10.2 with a Grignard compound of formula VIII , EMI10.3 wherein R, R1, X, Y and Z have the meanings given in claim 1 and Hal is bromine or iodine. 11. A process for the preparation of compounds of formula I in claim 1 in which X and Y are the same and Z is hydrogen, which comprises reacting 2 mol proportions of aGrignard compound of formula VIII with 1 mol proportion of an ester of fonnula IX RR1CH.COOR2 IX wherein R and R1 have the meanings given in claim 1 and R2 is a hydrocarbon radical. MJH BH 26.3.82.

## Description
This invention relates to tertiary alcohols, more particularly to 1,1 bis optionally substituted phenyl alkan 1 ols, and to processes for their preparation, According to the prcsent invention there are provided 1,1 bis optionally substituted phenylzalk n 1 ors of the general formula I EMI1.1 wherein R and R1, which may be the same or different, are hydrogen or alkyl, preferably C1 C4 alkyl, and X, Y and Z are each independently hydrogen, chlorine or fluorine, provided that when R, R1 and Z are hydrogen, X and Y are not both hydrogen or both fluorine. It is preferred that at least one of X, Y and Z is chlorine or fluorine. It is further preferred that R and R1 are both hydrogen. According to a further feature of the invention there is provided a process for the preparation of the compounds of formula I which comprises reacting an alkyl magnesium halide of formula II RR1HCMg.Hal II with a benzophenone of formula III EMI1.2 wherein R, R , X, Y and Z have the previously defined meanings andHal is chlorine, bromine or iodine. This process is carried out by methods which are well known in the art for the preparation and reaction of Grignard reagents, of which the alkyl magnesium halides of formula II are examples, and ketones such as the benzophenones of formula III . Thus, the alkyl magnesium halide of formula II may be prepared in known manner by reaction of an alkyl halide of formula it RR HC.Hal. IV wherein X,R and Hal. have the previously defined meanings, with metallic magnesium in an anhydrous ether solvent, for example, diethyl ether or tetrahydrofuran, optionally in admixture with an inert organic solvent such as toluene, and generally with the application of gentle heat to assist completion of the reaction.The benzophenone of formula III is then added, preferably as a solution in an inert organic solvent such as toluene, to the solution of the Grignard reagent, the reaction temperature being kep at or slightly above normal room temperature, for example, at 25 30 C. The tertiary alcohol of formula I may then be isolated from the reaction mixture in known manner, for example, by pouring the mixture into dilute aqueous ammonium chloride solution and separating the organic layer, which is then dried, followed by removal of the solvent by evaporation or distillation to leave the product. The benzophenones of formula III may be obtained byFriedel Crafts reaction between a benzoyl halide of formula V EMI2.1 and a benzene derivative of formula V1 EMI3.1 wherein X, Y and Z have the previously defined meanings and Hal represents bromine or preferably chlorine, in the presence of aLewis acid such as aluminium chloride. Benzophenones of formula III in which X and Y are both fluorine may also be obtained from a diphenylmethane of formulaEMI3.2 wherein Z has the previously defined meaning, by the method described in European Patent Publication No. 4710. According to a yet further feature of the invention there is provided an alternative process for the preparation of the compounds of formula I which comprises reacting a compound of formula VII EMI3.3 with a Grignard compound of formula VIII EMI3.4 wherein , 1, X, Y and Z have the previously defined meanings and Hal is bromine or iodine. This latter process is carried out essentially as described for the previous process. According to a still further feature of the invention there is provided a process for the preparation of compounds of formula I in which X and Y are the same and Z is hydrogen, which comprises reacting 2 mol proportions of aGrignard compound of formula VIII with 1 mol proportion of an ester of formula IX RR1CH.COOR2 IX wherein R and R have the previously defined meanings and R2 is a hydrocarbon radical1 preferably an alkyl radical and particularly a C1 C4 alkyl radical. An example of an ester of formula IX which may be used is ethyl acetate. The tertiary alcohols of formula I are useful intermediates for fungicides. Those in which R R1 H are intermediates for the preparation of fungicidal compounds of formula X EMI4.1 wherein X, Y and Z have the previously defined meanings.Compounds of formula cox and methods for their preparation are disclosed in European Patent Publication No.15756. The tertiary alcohols of formula I in which R R H may be converted into compounds of formula X , by for example, reaction of the tertiary alcohols themselves or their alkene dehydration products with chlorine, bromine, hypochlorous acid or hypobromous acid in aqueous medium to give the corresponding halohydrin of formula XII EMI5.1 wherein X, Y and Z have the previously defined meanings and A is chlorine or bromine. The halohydrin is subsequently reacted with 1,2,4 riazole to give the compound of formula X via the epoxide of formula XIII EMI5.2 which is readily formed under the basic conditions of the triazole addition. The alkene dehydration products referred to have the formula XI EMI6.1 and are obtained by dehydrating the tertiary alcohols by, for example, heating the alcohols in the presence of a catalytic amount of a strong acid, such as toluenesulphonic acid. Particularly useful tertiary alcohols of formula I for the synthesis of compounds of formula X are those having R R H and the following substitution patterns for X, Y and Z X Y Z F H F F H Cl Cl H Cl Cl F H F Cl Cl The invention is illustrated by the following Examples in which parts and percentages are by weight.Example 1. 1. 2 chlorophenyl 1 4 fluorophenyl ethanol A solution of methyl bromide 89 parts in toluene 43 parts is added, over about 30 minutes, to a stirred mixture of magnesium turnings 20 parts , toluene 130 parts and tetra iydrofuran 122 parts , maintaining the temperature at 30 40 C. After the magnesium is dissolved, 2 chloro 4 fluoro benzophenone 130 partsj in toluene 125 parts is added, whilst maintaining the temperature at 25 30 C. The mixture is drowned out into 5 aqueous ammonium chloride 1500 parts and stirred for 30 minutes.The organic layer is separated, dried over anhydrous sodium sulphate and the solvent removed, under vacuum, at less than 40 C, to leave a brown oil 131 parts containing 90 by GLC, 10 SE30 at 200 C of 1 2 chlorophenyl 1 4 fluorophenyl ethanol 85 conversion based on 2 chloro 4 fluorobenzophenone . Distillation under vacuum, from sodium carbonate, gives 142 chloro phenyl 1 4 fluorophenyl ethanol contaminated with a all arrant of 1 2 chlorophenyl 4 4 fluorophenyl ethene. Elution through silica gel, with toluene, removes the latter to leave a colourless, viscous oil which is pure 1 2 chlorophenyl 1 4 fluoroShenyl ethanol b.p. 117.50 0.15 mm Hg with slight decomposition . P.m.r. spectrum CDCl3 T S 1.92 3H singlet 3.27 1H labile singlet 6.75 7.85 8H aromatic complex . The 2 chloro 4 flucrobenzophenone used in this Example was obtained by a Friedel Craft reaction between fluorobenzene and 2 chlorobenzoyl chloride using an aluminium chloride catalyst. Example 2. 1 2 fluorophenyl 1 4 fluorophenyl ethanol The procedure described in Example I was repeated except that the 130 parts of 2 chloro 4 fluorobenzophenone were replaced by 163 parts of 2,4 difluorobenzophenone, which was converted into the title compound in 85 yield. Purification, as described in Example 1 leaves a colourless liquid which is pure 1 2 fluorophenyl 1 4 fluororhenyl ethanol b.p. 1020 0.1 mm Hg with slight decobposition . P.m.r. snectrun CDCl3 TMS 1.90 3H singlet 2.7 CIH labile singlet 6.75 7.75 8H aromatic complex . The 2,4 difluorobenzophenone used in this Example was obtained by a Friedel Crafts reaction between fluorobenzene and 2 fluorobenzoyl chloride using an aluminium chloride catalyst.