# AUTOMATIC TRACER CONTROL SYSTEM.

## Abstract
Improvement in machining accuracy and operational performance of a system of tracer control according to the signal from a tracer head. The system includes an input means KB for entering position information designating a given position on a model and a detecting means PCX, PCY, PCZ for detecting the position of a tracer head. During tracing machining, the differences between the work dimen sions and the model dimensions are obtained on the basis of the position information and the detected results of the detecting means PCX, PCY, PCZ , and then, after finishing the tracing operation, the machining conditions relating to the amount of cutting are changed so that the differences become zero and the tracing operation is executed again.

## Claims
CLAIM 1. An automatic tracer control system which performs tracer control through computation of a trace direction and a trace velocity based on signals from a tracer head tracing the surface of a model characterized in that there are provided input means for entering position information for specifying a predetermined position on the model and detecting means for detecting the position of the tracer head the size of a work at the predetermined position is computed based on the position information and the result of detection by the detecting means a difference is detected between the work size and the size of the model at the predetermined position after completion of tracing, cutting conditions related to infeed are changed so that the difference may become zero and tracing is resumed. 2. An automatic tracer control system which performs tracer control through computation of a trace direction and a trace velocity based on signals from a tracer head tracing the surface of a model, characterized in that there are provided input means for entering position information for specifying a plurality of predetermined positions on the model and detecting means for detecting the position of the tracer head the size of a work at each of the plurality of predetermined position is computed based on the position information and the results of detection by the detecting means a difference is detected between the work size and the size of the model at each of the plurality of predetermined positions after completion of tracing, cutting conditions related to infeed are changed so that the mean value of the differences may become zero and tracing is resumed.

## Description
SPECIFICATION AUTOMATIC TRACER CONTROL SYSTEM TECHNICAL FIELD The present invention relates to an automatic tracer control system which automatically detects the difference between the work size and the model size at a specified position during tracing, automatically changed cutting conditions in a manner to reduce the difference to zero and then resumes tracing. TECHNICAL BACKGROUND The tracer control system is to cut a work into the same configuration as the model by bodily movement of a tracer head tracing the model surface and a cutter head having mounted thereon a cutter cutting the work but, in some cases, the work is not sut into the same shape as the model under the influence of the follow up property of tracing, elastic deformation of the cutter and so forth.To avoid this, in the prior art, the operator measures the work size at a predetermined position to check for a difference between it and the model size after completion of cutting and, in the case where the difference is larger than a predetermined value, a reference displacement, the cutter radius and so forth are changed and then tracing takes place again, thereby to make the difference smaller than the predetermined value. With the abovesaid method, however, it is necessary for the operator to actually measure the work size and modify the reference displacement and so on and, therefore, the operation becomes troublesome hence improvement is now desired. DISCLOSURE OF THE INVENTION The present invention is to meet such a demand as described above, and has for its object to permit automatic modification of cutting conditions related to infeed, such as the reference displacemnt, the styus radius, the cutter radius, etc. in a manner to reduce the difference between the model size and the work size down to zero, thereby to simplify the operation and improve the cutting accuracy. According to the present invention the difference detected between th e model size and the. work size at a predetermined position during tracing and, after completion of tracing, the cutting conditions are changed so that the difference may become zero, and then tracing is resumed hence, the cutting accuracy and the maneuverability can be improved. BRIEF DESCRIPTION O THE DRAWINGS Fig. 1 is a block diagram illustrating an embodiment of the present invention Figs. 2 Ak and B are explanatory of the nammer how to obtain the work size and the model size andFigs. 3, 4 and 5 are flowcharts explanatory of the operation of the embodiment. PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION For a detailed description of the present invention, the invention will hereinafter be described in detail with respect to its embodiments. Fig. 1 is a block diagram illustrating an embodiment of the present invention. Reference characters DG and IND indicate a displacement calculation circuit and an indexing circuit, respectively, which are supplied with displacement signals and EZ from a tracer head TR, ARN and ART velocity arithmetic circuits, ADD an adder, DC a distribution circuit, GC a gate circuit, DX, DY and DZ amplifier output circuits, MX, MY and MZ servomotors, PCX, PCY and PCZ position detectors, TR a tracer head, ST a stylus, CT a cutter, CH a cutter head, M a model, W a work, ATC an automatic cutter change mechanism, KB a kyeboard,DI a data input device, DO a data output device, PD a polarity detector, DA a DA converter, MEM a memory and CPU a processor. The stylus ST is brought into contact with the model M and is fed by the servomotors. Based on the displacement signals X ey and cz corresponding to displacement of the stylus ST, the displacement calculation circuit DG yields a composite displacement signalEMI3.1 whereas the indexing circuit IND yields displacement direction signals sine and cos6. The composite displacement signal C is applied to the adder ADD, wherein Åa difference e between it and a reference displacement signal c0 is obtained. In the velocity arithmetic circuits ARN and ART, normal velocity signal VN and tangential velocity signalVT are produced and, in the distribution circuit DC, a velocity command signal is produced based on the displacement direction signals sine and cos0, which signal is provided to the gate circuit GC. The velocity command signal is applied to the amplifier output circuit selected by the gate circuit CC and the corresponding servomotor is driven in accordance with the velocity command signal, bodily feeding the cutter CT and the tracer head TR.Such operations as described above are already well known. In this embodiment, tracing operation data including data on the position information for specifying a predetermined position on the model M, the model size at the predetermined position and the radius of the cutter CT hereinafter referred to as the cutter radius are entered from the keyboard KB and stored in the memory MEM. During tracing the work size at the abovesaid predetermined position is obtained in the processor CPU based on the results of detection by the position detectors PCX, PXY andPCZ and the cutter radius. Further, the difference between the work size and the model size is obtained in the processor CPU and this difference is stored in the memory MEM.After completion of tracing, the reference displacement and the cutter radius are modified according to the difference stored in the memoryMEM so that the difference between the work size and the model size may be reduced to zero, and then tracing is carried out again. Incidentally, the modification of the cutter radius is effected by replacement of the cutter through the automatic cutter change mechanism ATC the operation of which is controlled by the processor CPU. Referring first to Figs. 2 A and B , a method of detect ing the work size will be described. Fig. 2 A shows the case of detecting the interior length of the work and Fig. 2 B the case of detecting the exterior length of the work. Reference characters M1 and M2 indicate models and the other reference characters identical with those in Fig. 1 indicate the same parts. As shown in Fig. 2 A , when feeding the tracer head TR along the model M in the direction indicated by the arrow, the cutter CT is also fed at the same time, cutting the work W. Now, assuming, for example, that the Z coordinates of the tracer headTR have moved between two points al and bl, and that the X coordi nates of the points al and bl are X1 and X2, then the length Q between the points al and bl becomes as follows 2 X2 X1 1 The X and Y coordinates of the points al and bl can be obtained based on the results of detection by the position detectors. In this case, since the tracer head TR and the cutter head CH are coupled together through a rigid body, the length of the work cut by the cutter CT during the movement of the tracer headTR from the point a to b, that is, the work size Wl becomes as follows W1 2RC 2 where RC is the radius of the cutter CT . The work size Qw2 in the case of the tracer head TR having moved between points a2 and b2 as shown in Fig. 2 B becomes as follows RW2 t 2RC 3 Now, the operation will be described with reference to flowcharts shown in Figs. 3 and 4. Fig. 3 shows the case where the trace feed axis is the X axis and flags A and B are set to 0 in the initial state. When starting the tracing, since the flag A 0 in the initial state, tracing and pick feed are repeatedly carried out until the pick feed axis is brought into agreement with the position of measurement of the work size. In this case, it is decided in the processor CPU on the basis of information applied thereto from the position detectors PCX, PCY and PCZ via the data input device DI whether the pick feed axis has been brought into agreement with the measurement position. Having decided that the axis has agreed with the measurement position, the processor CPU alters the flag A to 1 . Next, the processor CPU derives from the results of detection by the position detectors PCX, PCY and PCZ the X coordinatesX1 of the tracer head TR when the Z coordinates of the tracer head TR has reached a predetermined value. The X coordinates thus obtained is stored in the memory MEM and, at the same time, the polarity PH of the displacement signal eX and the trace direction TD at this time are stored in the memory MEM and the flag B is altered to fllll. In this case, the polarity PH has been detected by the polarity detector PH and provided via the data input device DI to the processor CPU.Provided that, for example, the model M1 shown in Fig. 2 A is now being traced, the X coordinates of the point al is stored, and provided that the modelM2 of Fig. 2 B , is being traced, the X coordinates of the Point a2 is stored. Next, the processor CPU obtains the X coordinates X2 when the Z coordinates of the tracer head TR has reached the predetermined value again, stores it in the memory MEM and alters both of the flags A and B to O . In this case, if the model M1 ofFig. 2 A i s being traced, the X coordinates of the point bl is stored and, if the model M2 of Fig. 2 B is being traced, the X coordinates of the point b2 is stored. After completion of such tracing, the processor CPU reads out the polarity PH and the trace direction TD stored in the memory MEM and then decides whether the interior length or exterior one has been measured as shown in Table 1. Table 1EMI7.1 tb SEP TD SEP PH tb positive SEP positive SEP interior SEP length tb positive SEP negative SEP exterior SEP length tb negative SEP positive SEP exterior SEP length tb negative SEP negative SEP interior SEP length tb In the case where it has been turned out as a result of the decision that the interior length was measured, the processorCPU conducts a calculation of the following equation 4 or 5 depending on whether the trace direction TD is positive or nega tive, thus obtaining the work size w at the measurement position. W X2 X1 2RC C 4 W 1 X X2 2RC 5 where X1 and X2 are coordinates values of the X coordinates stored in the memory MEM and 2RC is the radius of the cutter CT .Next, the processor CPU reads out the model size Q0 at the measurement position, stored in the memory MEM, and conducts a calculation of the following equation 6 , obtaining the difference between the model size Q0 and the work size QW at the measurement w 0 ...................... 6 And, if the difference is positive, the processor CPU stops the operation and if is negative, the operation of the flowchart of Fig. 4 is carried out. In the case where it has been decided that the exterior length was measured, the following equation 7 or 8 is calculated depending on whether the trace direction TD is positive or negative QW X2 X1 2RC 7 w X1 X2 2RC .................... 8 Next, the following equation t9 is computed, obtaining the difference AL between the work size and the model size L0 at the measurement position. AL Lw 0 ..................... 9 And, if the difference AL is negative, the operation is finished and, if the difference AL is positive, the operation of the flow chart shown in Fig. 4 is performed. Next, the processor CPU follows the flowchart of Fig. 4 to operate the automatic cutter change mechanism ATC, changing the cutter. In this case, the processor CPU selects first a desired one of a plurality of cutters set in the automatic cutter change mechanism ATC in the following manner Incidentally, let it be assumed, in this case, that n cutters of radii RC lt roc 2 000 ... RC n are set in the automatic cutter change mechanism ATC, and that they bear a relationship RC l RC 2 RC nO At first, the processor CPU sequentially changes the cutter radius and conducts a calculation shown by the following equation it AL 2 0 RC N AN N 10 where N is an integer . The cutter radius is obtained first which makes AN nagative, and then a cutter select signal to the effect that a cutter of a radius small next to the abovesaid one is selected is provided via the data output device DO to the automatic cutter change mechanismATC. The automatic cutter change mechanism ATC performs the cutter changing operation and, upon completion of the operation, applies its information via the data input device DI to the processor CPU. Having detected completion of the cutter changing operation, the processor CPU changes the reference displacement toEMI9.1 and provides it to the adder ADD via the data output device DO and the DA converter DA, resuming tracing. According to this embodiment, as described above, the difference EQ between the work size QW and the model size L0 is automatically obtained, and the cutter radius and the reference displacement are changed so that the difference AL may become zero, after which tracing is resumed. Hence, the work can automatically be cut into the same configuration as the model with high accuracy. While in the above embodiment the measurement is effected at one position, it is also possible to carry out the measurement at a plurality of positions, obtain the difference between the model size and the work size at each measurement position and change the cutter radius and the reference displacement so that the mean value of the differences obtained may become zero, whereby to provide for enhanced reliability. In this case, tracing operation data including data on a plurality of position information for specifying a plurality of positions on the modelM, the model size at each of the plurality of specified positions and the cutter radius are entered from the keyboard KB to the memory MEM for storage.During tracing the work size at the abovesaid plurality of specified positions is detected by the processor CPU based on the results of detection by the position detectors PCX, PCY and PCZ and the cutter radius. Further, the mean value of the differences between the work size and the model size at the plurality of specified positions is obtained in the processor CPU and this mean value of the differences is stored in the memory MEM. After completion of tracing, the reference displacement and the cutter radius are changed based on the mean value of the differences, and then tracing is effected again. With reference to the flowcharts shown in Figs. 5 and 4, the operation will hereinbelow be described. In Fig. 5, the trace feed axis is the X axis and the flags A and B are set to 11011 at the initial state. when the pick feed axis has come into agreement with a first measurement position after starting the tracing operation, the processor CPU stores in the memory MEM, in the same manner as described previously, the X coordinates X1 when the Z coordinates of the tracer head TR has reached a predetermined value, along with the polarity PH of the displacement signal X and the trace direction TD at this time, and stores the X coordinatesX2 in the memory MEM when the Z coordinates of the tracer headTR has reached again the predetermined value. Next, the processor CPU reads out the polarity PH and the trace direction stored in the memory MEM and decides whether the interior length or exterior one has been measured at the first measurement position as shown in the aforementioned Table 1. In the case of the interior length, the processor CPU conducts the operation of the aforementioned equations 4 or 5 depending on whether the trace direction TD is positive or negative, obtaining the work size QW at the first measurement position. Then, the processor reads out the model size L0 at the first measurement position stored in the memory MEM and conducts the operation of the aforesaid equation 6 to obtain the difference AL between the work size QW and the model size Q. And, if the difference AL is negative, the processor CPU stores its absolute value EQ asasAL in the memory MEM and, if the difference AL is positive, stores, as AL, a value with its sign inverted aQ in the memory MEM. In the case of the exterior length, the operation of the aforementioned equation 7 or 8 is conducted depending on whether the trace direction TD is positive or negative, obtaining the work LW at the first measurement position. Next, the model size L0 at the first measurement position stored in the memoryMEM is read out and the operation of the aforesaid equation 9 is carried out to obtain the difference EQ between the work size QW and the model Q0. And the processor CPU stores the difference AL as AL in the memory MEM. Then, the processor CPU reads out data on the second measurement position from the memory MEM and performs the same operations as mentioned above, obtaining the difference AL between the work size QW and the model size Q0 at the second measurement position. And, in the case of the exterior length at the second measurement position, the difference AL obtained and AL read out from the memory MEM are added and the addition result is stored as aL in the memory MEM. In the case of the interior length at the second measurement position, a value obtained by inverting the sign of the difference AL and AL read out from the memoryMEM are added and the addtion result is stored as AL in the memory MEM. Such an operation as described above is carried out for each of the measurement positions and, upon completion of tracing, the processor CPU reads out AL from the memory MEM and conducts an operation of the following equation 11 , obtaining a mean value AL1 of the difference between the model size and the work size EQ AL P 11 where P is the number of measurement positions . And, in the case where the mean value EQ of the difference is negative, the operation is finished and in the case of positive, the operation of the flowchart shown in Fig. 4 is performed.In this case, the operation differs from the operation in the case of one measurement position only in that An is obtained by the following equation 12 2 . RC N AN................ 12 Although in the above embodiment the difference AL is obtained from the measured work size LW and the preknown model size Lg, it can also be obtained in such a manner as described below. For example, the model size LMl of the model M1 shown inFig. 2 A is as given by the following equation 13 , assuming that the displacements of the stylus ST at the points al and bl, that is, at both ends of the measurement position, are 1 and e2, respectively. M1 Rs 1 Rs 2 2RS 1 2 ................. 13 where RS is the radius of the stylus ST. Since the work size QW1 at this time is expressed by QW1 2RC as shown in Eq. 2 , the difference AL becomes as given by the following equation 14 LMl QW1 2 RS RC 1 2 ................... 14 Accordingly, the difference AL can be obtained by entering the cutter radius RC and the stylus radius RS from the keyboard KB in advance, obtaining the displacement at either end of the measurement positions and conducting the operation ofEq. 14 . Further, the model size LM2 of the model M2 shown in Fig.2 B becomes such as shown in the following equation L5 , assuming that the displacements of the stylus ST at the both ends of the measurement position are 1 and 2, respectively. M2 RS 1 RS 2 2RS 1 2 ................. 15 Since the work size QW2 is QW2 2RC as given by Eq. 3 , the difference becomes as given by the following equation 16 At LM2 tW2 2 RC RS 1 2 16 Accordingly, the difference AL can be obtained by obtaining the displacement at either end of the measurement position and conducting the operation shown in Eq. 16 . Although in the foregoing embodiment the difference between the work size and the model size is reduced to zero by changing the reference displecement and the cutter radius, it is a matter of course to arrange so that only the reference displacement or the stylus radius and the reference displacement are changed. As has been described in the foregoing, according to the present invention, the difference between the model size and the work size at a predetermined position is automatically obtained, the cutting conditions related to infeed, such as the reference displacement, the cutter radius, the stylus radius and so forth, are changed so that the difference may become zero, and then tracing is resumed accordingly, the present invention possesses the advantages that the work can be cut into the same configuration as the model and that the cutting time can be reduced. Moreover, according to the present invention, a plurality of measurement positions are provided, the difference between the model size and the work size at each of the measurement positions is obtained and the cutting conditions related to infeed are changed so that the difference may become zero the present invention has the advantage that the reliability is enhanced.