# Process for the removal of manganese and chloride ions from aqueous acidic zinc sulphate solutions and process for the recovery of zinc.

## Abstract
Manganese and chloride ions are removed from aqueous acidic zinc sulphate solutions by treatment with ozone. The initial treatment precipitates the manganese as manganese dioxide and continued ozone treatment subse quently removes the chloride ions. The invention is particu larly applicable to treatment of spent electrolyte solutions resulting from leaching zinc ores with aqueous sulphuric acid and electrolysis of the leach solution to recover the zinc, and in which manganese and choride ions are present in the leach solution either from the original ore, or by deliberate addition to the leach solution prior to electrolysis.

## Claims
Claims 1. A process for removing manganese and chloride ions from aqueous acidic sulphate solutions containing zinc, manganese and chloride ions, which comprises adjusting the free acidity of the solution, if necessary to 0.1 molar or above and treating the solution with ozone to oxidize and precipitate out manganese ions as insoluble manganese dioxide, thereby to reduce the manganese ion concentration to a low level, characterised in that the chloride ions are removed by continuing the ozone treatment after the manganese ion concentration has been reduced to said low level thereby to oxidize and remove said chloride ions from said solution. 2. A process according to claim 1 wherein, before ozone treatment, the solution contains from 100 to 1000 mg L chloride ions, and the treatment is effective to reduce the chloride ion concentration to less than 50 mg L. 3. B process according to claim 2 wherein, before the ozone treatment, the solution contains from 50 to 1000 mg L chloride ions, and the solution after treatment contains less than 10 mg L chloride ions. 4. A process according to claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the aqueous acidic sulphate solution subjected to the ozone treatment has a free acidity of from 0.1 to 2.5 molar. 5. A process according to ant one of claims 1 4 wherein, before ozone treatment, the solution contains from 5 to 170 mg L zinc ions, and from 1 to 25 g L manganese ions. 6. A process according to claim 5 wherein, before ozone treatment, the solution contains from 30 to 60 g L zinc ions, and from 4 to 12 g L manganese ions. 7. A process according to any one of claims 1 6 wherein the temperature of the solution during ozone treatment is from 20 to 600C. 8. A process according to any one of claims 1 7 wherein the ozone treatment is effected by passing the acidic sulphate solution in succession through at least two cells and passing ozone in succession through the cells in countercurrent flow to the sclution flow. 9. A process according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the aqueous acidic zinc sulphate solution is a spent electrolyte solution obtained by leaching a zinc containing material with aqueous sulphuric acid and electrolysing the leach solution to recover the zinc therefrom, the said spent electrolyte solutioncontaining manganese and chloride ions resulting from 1 leaching a zinc containing material which also contains manganese and a chloride ion yielding material, 2 leaching a zinc containing material which also contains manganese, and adding a chloride ion yielding material to the leach solution prior to electrolsis, or 3 leaching a zinc containing material which also contains a chloride ion yielding material, and adding a manganese compound to the leach solution prior to electrolysis. 10. A method for the recovery of zinc from zinc containing material which comprises leaching the zinc containing material with aqueous sulphuric acid and electrolysing the leach solution to recover elemental zinc as a cathode deposit, wherein said zinccontaining material contains manganese and or a chloride ion yielding material, or a manganese and or chloride ion yielding material is added to the leach solution prior to electrolysis, thereby to yield an aqueous acidic zinc sulphate solution containing both manganese and chloride characterised in that the spent electrolyte is treated by a process as claimed in any one of claims 1 8 for the removal of manganese and chloride ion, and then further treated for the recovery of additional zinc. 11. A method according to claim 10, wherein the spent electrolyte, after removal of said manganese and chloride ion, is recycled to the leaching step.

## Description
PROCESS FOR THE REMOVAL OF MANGANESE AND CHLORIDE IONS FROM AQUEOUS ACIDIC ZINC SULPHATE SOLUTIONS XKD PROCESS FOR THE RECOVERY OF ZINC This invention relates to the removal of manganese and chloride ions from aqueous acidic zinc sulphate solutions and also to the recovery of zinc. In many processes for the recovery of zinc, zinc containing material such as zinc concentrate is treated to produce an aqueous acidic zinc sulphate solution, and this solution is electrolyzed to produce elemental zinc. Such treatment may include, for example, aqueous acidic oxidation leaching of an unroasted zinc sulphide containing material. Processes of this kind are described inUnited States Patents Nos 2,996,440, 3,477,927 and 3,867,268.Other earlier processes include the oxidation roasting of zinc sulphide containing material, followed by aqueous acidic leaching of the resulting oxidic calcine. For various reasons, the aqueous acidic zinc sulphate solution to be electrolyzed may contain undesirably high concentrations of manganese ions and chlorine ions. Manganese.and chlorine may be present in the zinc containing material and hence may appear as manganese ions and chlorine ions in the aqueous acidic sulphate solution to be leached. This is especially so in processes in which unroasted zinc sulphide material is leached in an aqueous acid oxidation leach. In other processes in which the zinc sulphide material is first subjected to an oxidation roast step to produce an oxidie calcine, some of the chlorine is lost in the roasting step. However, even in such processes, there may be undesirably high concentrations of chlorine ions in the subsequent leach solution. Alternatively, a manganese containing compound or a chlorine containing compound may be used in a treatment step prior to electrolysis. For example, manganese dioxide may be added in the leach step to promote the oxidation of iron in the zinc containing material, and the utilization of this step generally results in the presence of manganese ions in the leach solution.Also, zinc dross may be added in a leach solution purification step and, since commerical zinc dross usually contains chlorine, the utilization of this step will result in chlorine ions being presen in the solution to be electrolyzed. Although a relatively low concentration of manganese can be tolerated in the acidic zinc sulphate solution to be electrolyzed and may in fact be beneficial to theelectro winning step, manganese ion concentrations above about 5 g L are not acceptable.Similarly, the presence of more than a low concentration of chlorine ions in the solution and in various process stepsafter the leach step causes a problem because of the corrosive nature of the chlorine ions. For example, it is usually desirable that the chlorine ion concentration be less than about 50 mg L. United States Patent Application No 086,877, filed October 22, 1979, concerns a process for removing manganese ions from an aqueous acidic sulphate solution containing zinc and manganese ions without removing a substantial amount of zinc ions from the solution, the process comprising adjusting the free acidity of the solution to a free acidity of at least about 0.1 molar, treating the solution with ozone to oxidize manganese ions to manganese dioxide, and removing manganese dioxide from the solution. The present invention is based on the discovery that chlorine ions can also be removed in the manganese removal step by continuing the ozone treatment for a sufficient time. It has been found that initially the ozone primarily oxidizes the manganese ions and reacts with the chlorine ions when the manganese ion.concentration has fallen to a relatively low level. The chlorine ions are oxidized to chlorine gas which is emitted from the solution, with some chlorate ions possibly also being formed. It is believed that the oxidation of chlorine ions is catalyzed by the presence in the solution of manganic or permanganate ions, thal is lO say manganese ions in a higher oxidation state than manganous ions. Accordingly therefore, the present invention provides a process for removing manganese and chlorine ions from an aqueous acidic sulphate solution containing zinc, manganese and chlorine ions without removing a substantial amount of zinc ions from solution, the process comprisIng adjusting the free acidity of the solution to at least about 0.1 molar, treating the solution with ozone to oxidize manganese ions to manganese dioxide and continuing the ozone treatment after the manganese concentration has fallen to a low level to oxidize chlorine ions, and removing manganese dioxide from the solution. there the solution initially contains from about 100 to about 1000 mg L chlorine ions, the ozone treatment may reduce the chlorine concentration to less than about 50 mg L chlorine ions. Alternatively, where the solution intially contains from about 50 to about 1000 mg L chlorine ions, the ozone treatment may reduce the chlorine concentration to less than about 10 mg L chlorine ions. The initial solution will usually contain from about 5 to about 170 g L zinc ions and from about 1 to about 25 g L manganese ions. More usually, the initial solution may contain from about 30 to about 60 g L zinc ions and from about 4 to about 12 g L manganese ions. The initial solution preferably has a free acidity of from 0.1 to about 2.5 molar. The ozone treatment is preferably carried out after the electro winning step where the spent electrolyte usually has a free acidity of from about 0.1 to about 2 molar. The ozone treatment may be carried out on purified leach solution with less free acid and prior to electrolysis, with the free acidity first being raised by the addition of acid so as to have a free acidity in the 0.1 to 2 molar range. The temperature of the solution during ozone treatment is preferably from about 20 to about 60 C. The ozone treatment is preferably carried out by passing the solution in succession through at least two cells and passing ozone in succession through the cells in couniercurrent flow to the solution flow, the flow of ozone being sufficient to oxidize a sufficient amount of manganese ions before the final cell such that tlie ozone oxidizes a sufficient amount of chlorine ion in the final cell to reduce the chlorine concentration in the solution leaving the final cell to a predetermined value. A preferred embodiment of the present invention will now be described, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 1 is a flow diagram of a zinc extraction process and Figure 2 shows the manganese and chlorine removal step of the process of Figure 1 in more detail. Referring to the drawing, zinc sulphide concentrate which also contains manganese and chlorine is supplied, after suitable pre treatment such as grinding, to an acid oxidation pressure leach step 12 in which the leaching medium is aqueous sulphuric acid solution, for example as described in United States PatentNo 3,sol,268, so that the following primary reaction takes place EMI4.1 Some manganese and chlorine are also dissolved in this leach step as ell as zinc and hence the leach solution contains manganese and chlorine ions as well as zinc ions. The products of the leach step 12 are then subjected to a liquid solids separation step 14, from which the residue is discarded or treated for the recover of contained values, the product solution then being subjected to any necessary purification step 16, the nature of which will be clear to a person skilled in the art. The solution is then passed to an electro v inning step 18 where zinc is deposited on the cathode. Zinc is removed from the cathode from time to time as zinc product, and the spent electrirte is then treated with ozone in manganese and chlorine removal step 20. As shown in Figure 2, the manganese and chlorine removal step 20 includes three cells 22, 24 and 26 through which the solution is passed in succession. Ozonized oxygen is passed in succession through the cells 26, 24, 22 in countercurrent flow to the solution flow. An appreciable amount of manganese ions are oxidized to manganese dioxide in the first cell 22 and a greater amount of manganese ions are oxidized to manganese dioxide in the second cell 24, with a relatively small amount of manganese ions being oxidized to manganese dioxide in the third cell 26.A very small amount of chlorine ions are oxidized in the first cell 22, and a slightly greater amount of chlorine ions are oxidized in the second cell 24. However, a substantial amount of chlorine ions are oxidized in the third cell 26 where the manganese ion concentration is at a low value. Most of the oxidized chlorine ions are released from the solution as chlorine gas, although a small proportion of the chlorine ions may be retained in the solution. The manganese dioxide is entrained in the solution and flows out of cell 26 to a liquid solids separation step 28 where t he manganese dioxide is separated from the solution. The remaining solution is then recycled to the leach step 12. Although the liberated chlorine gas consequently passes with the ozone flow through the second and first cells 24, 22, it has been found that there is no significant absorption of chlorine gas by the solution in these cells. The unused ozone which has passed through the cells may be recycled, with the chlorine contained therein being removed in some suitable manner, for example by passage through a sulphite solution. In a specific example of the preferred embodiment of the invention described above, 1.5 L min of ozonized oxygen containing 57.5 mg L ozone was passed sequentially through the three cells countercurrently to a solution passed through the cells at a rate of 15 L min, the solution and the gas being at a temperature of about 239C. The solution contained 150 glL sulphuric acid, 50 g L zinc ions, 3.74 g L manganese ions and 107 mg L chlorine ions. The solution thus had a free acidity of about 1.3 molar. The manganese and chlorine ion concentrations in the first cell 22 stabilized at 2.5 g L manganese 3 removal and 106 mg L chlorine less than 1 removal . The second cell stabilized at 0.7 g L manganese 81 removal and 80 mg L chlorine 25 removal . The third cell 26 stabilized at 0.03 g L manganese more than 99 removal and 3 mg L chlorine 97 removal . It will be noted that there was no significant removal of chlorine ions in the first cell 22, neither was chlorine gas in the gas passing through the first cell 22 absorbed by the solution therein. The preferred embodiment concerns the extraction of zinc from zinc sulphidic material which also contains manganese and chlorine. As indicated earlier, the invention is equally applicable to situations where manganese has been introduced into the process by the use of manganese dioxide during the leach step 12 and or where chloride ion has been introduced into the process by the use of zinc dross contaminated with chlorine during tee purification step 16.