# Infrared energy detector system utilizing a charge transfer device sensor.

## Abstract
A scanning type infrared imaging system comprising a lens system, a scanner, an infrared sensing matrix 16 and a signal processor. Said infrared sensing matrix comprises an array of charge transfer device elements 24 arranged in rows and columns. Each element has four electrodes for receiving phase pulses. The phase 3 and phase 1 electrodes are for transfer gates and the phase 2 and phase 4 electrodes are for charge storage wells. The pulses applied to the charge storage wells move the packet charges down the parallel column shift registers C1 C6 at a rate substantially equal to the scanning rate of the scanner thereby providing time delay with integration of the charge packets before the signal leaves the infrared sinsing charge transfer device matrix. To provide charge storage wells of sufficient depth to hold the integrated charge packets the pulses applied to each succeeding stage potential well electrodes or groups of electrodes are increased in voltage. The charge packets from the parallel colum registers C1 C6 are clocked out by a serial shift register 46 to a floating gate or diode where the charge packet creates a voltage signal for signal processing by the signal processor.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An infrared energy detector system comprising a a scanning assembly for scanning at a preselected rate a scene emanating infrared energy b an infrared detector matrix of charge transfer devices in the scanning path of the scanning assembly for converting the impinging infrared energy into electrical charge packets respresentative of received infrared energy, said infrared detector matrix comprising a plurality of charge transfer device elements arranged in rows and columns, elements of the columns of charge transfer devices selectively connected together to form a plurality of integration stages, and means for applying selected amplitude voltages to the integration stages in synchronization with the scanning assembly whereby the electrical charge packets of the first stage are integrated with the charge packets of each succeeding stage of the plurality of integration stages to provide time delay with integration of charge packets representative of the same scene and c signal processing means. for processing the integrated signals into video signals representative of the infrared energy emanating from the scene. 2. An infrared energy detector system according to Claim 1 wherein the charge transfer devices of the infrared detector matrix are charge coupled devices. 3. An infrared energy detector system according to Claim 2 wherein each charge coupled device has a first preselected number of electrodes forming potential wells and a second preselected number of electrodes forming transfer gates, means connecting preselected pairs of corresponding potential well forming electrodes to selected ramping voltages, and means connecting the transfer gate electrodes to a preselected voltage for transfering electrical charge packets from one potential well to another. 4. An infrared energy detector system according to Claim 1 wherein said means for applying selected multiple amplitude voltages is a ramp generator. 5. An infrared energy detector system according to Claim 1 wherein the elements of the columns of charge transfer devices are grouped together in preselected numbers to form a preselected number of stages. 6. An infrared energy detector system according to Claim 1 wherein the charge coupled device elements of the detector matrix are fabricated on a narrow bandgap semiconductor material taken from the group consisting of HgCdTe, PbSnTe, InSb, InAsSb, GnInSb. 7. An infrared energy detector system according to Claim 1 wherein each detector stage of the plurality of stages includes a storage potential well gate, and a ramp generator connected to each storage potential well gate for providing a ramped bias which increases with time from the first to the last stage. 8. An infrared energy detector system according to Claim 2 wherein each charge coupled device of the matrix has four electrodes for four phase operation and a clock generator and clock drivers with separate connections to the phase 2 and phase 4 electrodes, one set of connections to each phase l electrode, and another set to all phase 3 electrodes to provide a quasi two phase operation. 9. An infrared energy detector system according to Claim 1 wherein the signal processing means includes aserial shift register for multiplexing out the integrated charge packet of the charge transfer device detector matrix, and a floating gate at the end of the serial shift register for converting the charge packets into voltage signals for video processing. 10. An infrared energy detector according to Claim 9 wherein the serial shift register includes wells having a capacity substantially larger than the capacity of the potential wells of each detector column whereby charges from the columns can be contained without ramping and the potential wells of the serial shift register are without electric field breakdown. 11. An infrared energy detector system according to Claim 1 wherein the signal processing means includes a floating gate connected to the output gate of each column of the charge transfer device detector matrix for video signal processing. 12. An infrared energy detector system according to Claim 11 wherein the floating gate has a potential well capacity sufficient to contain the ramped charge output without electric field breakdown prior to receipt of the ramped charge.

## Description
INFRARED TIME DELAY WITH INTERGRATION CTD IMAGER This invention relates the infrared detector systems and more particular to an infrared detector system utilizing charge transfer device sensors. Infrared energy imaging systems are two types staring and non staring. Non staring systems include an optical assembly for focusing infrared energy emanating from a scene within the field of view a scanning assembly for scanning the focused energy, and an infrared detector for converting the scanned energy into electrical signals representative of the scene for a signal processor. The signal processor includes a preamplifier for arnplifying the electrical signals to a working level for processing into video signals.The signal from the prior art infrared detector which does not use time delay and integration is directly proportional to the time required for the smallest resolvable image pixel to pass across the detector integration time the radiation background limited noise and background limited signal to noise ratio are directly proportional to the square root of the integration time. The integration time is set by the image scan velocity and the size of the detector thus, the integration time cannot be. arbitrarily increased for the prior art detector The infrared detector fabricated on an infrared sensitive material such as HgCdTe has included a parallel shift register which is read out to a single floating gate or diode output. The parallel register has two, three or four phases per stage.The circuit used at the floating gate can include 1 an on chip output and reset field effect transistors FETs or 2 a silicon chip with output and reset field effect transistors. Each stage in the shift register constitutes one infrared detector therefore, a shift register with wnlt stages has n infrared detectors read out from one floating gate or diode output. The infrared detector is used in conjund 9ji6J µhOthe mechanical scanner which moves an infrared image parallel to the direction of charge transfer in the parallel register. The velocity of motion of the infrared imager is made equal to the average velocity of motion of the charges in the register. Thus, as an infrared picture element pixel is scanned in synchronization with the phase movement, each bit of data exiting the parallel register has seen the same infrared pixel during its movement through the parallel register. Accordingly, the problem in the prior art has been that the charge packets in the parallel shift register potential wells increase in size from the first to the last stages and overflow after saturation. To prevent the overflow, the integration time for signal photons has to be curtailed. However, as the signal output is directly proportional to the integration time, this limitation set by overfilling is very deleterious. In the prior art devices, the maximum capacity has been set by electric field breakdown in the empty well in the infrared sensitive semiconductor such as mercury cadmium telluride.In the present invention, larger capacity is obtained by using successively larger voltages and well depths down the parallel shift register the infrared background provides an increasing background fat zero charge which can be set to keep the available charge capacity and electric f ield constant along the length of the shift register. In a charge coupled device CCD shift register a a fat zero charge must be placed in the well to cover up surface states and improve charge transfer efficiency. A fat zero requirement of 30 is a typical requirement for good charge transfer efficiency. A fat zero charge is usually put in at the far end of a shift register and the fat zero charge diminishes the charge capacity available to store infrared background and signal generated charge. The continuous clocks used in operating the parallel register stages in an infrared background result in the collection of infrared generated or dark current generated charge.This charge generated by infrared background or dark current constitutes an additional fat zero charge which increases from the first to the last stage of the CCD. The presence of this larger fat zero charge in the last stage and very little fat zero charge in the initial stage, results in good charge transfer efficiency CTE in the last stage a substantially degraded CTE in the first stage where charge transfer efficiency has its largest effect on performance. Accordingly, it is an object of this invention to provide an infrared energy detection and imaging system having improved sensitivity and signal to noise ratio. Another object of the invention is to improve the infrared energy collection efficiency through. an increase in integration time. Still another object of the invention is to increase the storage capacity of the infrared energy storage sites. Yet another object of the invention is to improve the charge transfer efficiency for transferring infrared energy charge packets. Briefly stated the invention comprises a forward looking infrared FLIR system including a lens assembly, scanning assembly detector assembly and video electronic circuitry. The detector assembly comprises a ramped charge transfer device CTD matrix. The matrix includes a plurality of charge transfer device elements arrange in rows and columns. Each pair of rows of elements constitutes a stage and each element of each stage is aCTD having a preselected number of phase electrodes which are used selectively for the collection of charge packets representative of impinging infrared energy and to transfer the charge packets to successive stages. Increasing ramping voltages are applied to selected elements of each stage to successively increase the charge collecting capacity of the matrix.The application of these ramping voltages are synchronized with the scanning rate.Thus each stage of elements sees the same image, and after the first stage, the next stage collects the charge packet of the preceeding stage and adds to it an additional charge packet representative of the same scene portion. In this manner, the voltage indicative of the scene is substantially increased to a working voltage and the integration time is substantially increased. A detailed description of a preferred embodiment of this invention follows with reference being made to drawings wherein like parts have been given like reference numerals for clarity and understanding of the elements and features of the invention. FIGURE 1 is a block diagram of a forward looking infrared system FIGURES 2a and 2b are views showing the charge transfer device matrix matrix and related circuitry FIGURE 3 is a partial cross sectional view of the parallel shift register taken along line A A of Figure 2a FIGURE 4 is a partial cross sectional view of the serial shift register taken along line B B of Figure 2a FIGURE 5 is a view showing the clock pulses or voltages corresponding to the division of the phase 2 and phase 4 clocks for three groups of stages a, b, and c FIGURE 6 is a view showing the build up of signal and background charge in the ramped wells as a bright image pixel is moved in synchronization with the potential wells FIGURE 7 is a view showing the build up of signal and background charge in a prior art art system and FIGURE 8 is a plan view of a second embodiment of the invention. Referring now to Figure 1, the forward looking infrared system 10 comprises a lens assembly 12, scanning assembly 14, detector assembly 16, video electronics circuitry 18, and a display or light source 20. The lens assembly 12 is comprised of three lens elements, not shown, which for operation in the infrared region, may consist of three germanium elements. These elements collect infrared energy emanating from a scene and focus this energy onto a rotating mirror, not shown, of the scanning assembly 14. The rotating or mutating mirror may be, for example, a two sided flat mirror. The first side, or front surface, of the mirror is used to receive the infrared energy, and the second side, or rear surface, of the mirror is used to scan the modulated visible light from the light source 20.The scanning mirror is positioned with its Y axis normal to the optical axis and its X axis at a 450 angle thereto. The scanning mirror is rotated at a rate to provide a preselected frequency such as, for example, 30 or 60 scans sec. by a small synchronous motor or in some instances by a solenoid. The solenoid causes the mirror to move against a return spring for oscillation. The scanning mirror reflects the infrared energy to a folding mirror, not shown, for reflection onto the detector array of detector assembly 16, hereinafter described in detail. The detector array converts the infrared energy to electrical signals for processing in the video electronics circuitry 18. The video electronics provides the signal processing auxiliary functions to modulate the output of the light source 20 or other display means.The light source or display 20 may be an array of light emitting diodes or a cathode ray tube CRT . Those desiring details of suitable structures for the above elements are referred to U. S. Patent No. 3,912,927 issued October 14, 1975 to Richard G. Hof fman, II, for an Opto Mechanical Device For Phase Shift Compensation of Oscillating Mirror Scanners. Referring now to Figures 2a and 2b, the detector array assembly 16 comprises a charge transfer device CTD infrared sensor matrix 22. The CTD matrix 22 is preferably a charge coupled device CCD matrix. The CCD matrix 22 is essentially a plurality of parallel CCD shift registers with their CCD elements 24 arranged in rows and columns. A six by six element array 22 is shown for disclosure purposes, although it will be appreciated that larger arrays will be used in practice.Each element 24 Fig.2a is formed on a semiconductor substrate 26 Fig. 3 the substrate is, for example, an n type mercury cadmium telluride HgCdTe substrate. Other suitable materials are PbSnTe, InAsSb, and GaInSb. A layer 28 of insulating material such as, for example, ZnS is formed on the substrate 26, and the layer is metalized with an infrared transparent metal such as, for example, nickel 100 to 150 Angstrom units thick to form a plurality of first level electrodes 30 and 32.A second layer 34 of the insulating material is formed on the first layer 28 over the electrodes 30 and 32, and the second layer is metalized with another infrared transparent metal such as thin nickel, to form a plurality of second level electrodes 36 and.38. The electrodes. 36 and 38 are formed in an overlapping relationship to electrodes 30 and 32. Those persons skilled in the art desiring detailed information for the construction of the CCD register elements are referred to U. S. Patent Serial No.950,191 filed October 10, 1978, for a Narrow Bandgap Semiconductor CCD Imaging Device and Method of Fabrication. The electrodes 30, 32, 36 and 38 of each stage of the phase 2 electrodes of the pairs of CCD elements forming stages A,B, and C.Then just before the clock pulses for the phase 2 electrodes go off, a clock pulse of voltage V1 is applied simultaneously to each phase 3 electrode and concomitantly therewith the phase l clock pulse goes off. Finally, just before the phase 3 clock pulse goes off, clock pulses of voltages V4a,V4b, and V4e are applied, respectively, to the phase 4 electrodes and concomitantly therewith the phase 2 clock pulses go off. As previously mentioned, the average rate of clocking is synchronized with the scan rate of the system Thus, as shown in Figure 6, at stage A and time tl a bright image is scanned and focused on the second phase 2 potential well at time t2 the charge packet representative of the bright image of stage A arrives at the fourth phase 2 potential well or second potential well of stage B simultaneously with the focusing of the same bright image detected in the second scan and at time t3 the integrated charge packets of stages A and B arrive at the sixth phase 2 potential well or second potential well of stage C simultaneously with the focusing of the same bright image detected in the first and second stages. The ramping voltages ofFigure 5 provide adequate capacity for the total charge of the charge packets which include infrared background and signal. generated charge. The integrated charge packet is then outputted to the serial shift register and clocked out to the floating gate. The size of each element of the serial shift register is sufficient to hold the integrated charge packet. Thus, the system provides for time delay with integration. Figure 7 shows the potential wells of the prior art system utlizing the same integration period. As shown, the potential well at time t3 is of insufficient depth to hold the charge packet and it overflows or avalanches. In the prior art, the maximum charge capacity is set by the maximum voltage and empty well depth at stage al this maximum is set in turn by electric field breakdown in the infrared sensing semiconductor. In the ramped array of Figure 6, the maximum voltage in the nearly empty stage 1 well is low to prevent electric field breakdown while the last stage well is deep enough to contain the total charge. Electric field breakdown in well 6 of Figure 6 is prevented by the background generated in this last well. The serial shift register Fig. 2a can be replaced by a plurality of floating gates one per column Fig. 8 . In this embodiment, each floating gate is provided with its own preset and buffer FETs. Each structure is that shown in Figure 2b which is that of Figure 4. The embodiment of Figure 8 has at least two advantages 1 the complexity of the serial shift register and clocks is not required and 2 the frequency bandwidth which must be provided for the signal processing circuitry is much lower than that required for signal processing of output from the Figure 2a array. Smaller electronic bandwidth means less wide bandwidth noise at the buffer FET. Although several embodiments of this invention have been described herein it will be apparent to a person skilled in the art that various modifications to the details of construction shown and described may be made without departing from the scope of this invention.