# New phenoxybenzoates, process for preparing these compounds, compositions containing them and method of use.

## Abstract
This invention relates to new phenoxybenzoates having high pre and post emergence herbicidal activity against indicator weeds, and are particularly effective against broad leaf weeds, such as morning glory. In addition to such effective herbicidal activity, they exhibit an unusual selectiv ity against important agromonic crops, such as cotton, rice, soybean, corn, wheat and sorghum.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A . compound having the formula EMI83.1 wherein L, M and N are independently hydrogen, hydroxy, halogen, trihalomethyl, nitro, cys tno, C1 4 alkyl, C1 4 alkoxy andEMI83.2 Y represents nitro, cyano,EMI83.3 and Ais selected from the group of radicals defined by the formulae I Z CH2CH2v mCH2CH2ZffR7 EMI83.4 III X CH2 nR6 OH p EMI83.5 wherein R is an unsaturated, straight chain or branched aliphatic radical having from 2 to 8 carbon atoms R1 and R2 are independently hydrogen or alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms R3 and R4 are independently hydrogen, or a saturated or unsaturated straight or branched chain C 8 aliphatic radical optionally substituted with halogen, hydroxy, alkoxy, cyano or nitro R5 is a saturated or unsaturated, straight chain or branched aliphatic hydrocarbon radical of from 1 to 18 carbon atoms wherein one or more of the CH2 groups can be replaced with 4 , S , S s , SO , SOa or NR4 and said hydrocarbon radical is optionally substituted with halogen, trihalomethyl, cyan, aryl, hydroxy, alkoxy, nitro or cycloalkyl having 3 to 6 carbon atoms R6 is a saturated or unsaturated straight chain or branched aliphatic radical containing from 1 to 8 carbon atoms, optionally substituted with halogen, trihalomethyl, cyano, hydroxy, nitro, acetoxy, alkoxy, thioalkoxy or aryl an aryl radical optionally substituted with halogen, trihalomethyl, hydroxy, cyano, nitro, alkyl or alkoxy a cyclic 3 6 membered alkylene ring or 5 6 membered alkenylene ring or benzyl optionally substituted with halogen, tri balomethyl, alkyl, hydroxy, alkoxy or cyano R7 is hydrogen, C1 4 alkyl optionally substituted with halogen, trihalomethyl or cyano or aryl optionally substituted with halogen, trihalomethyl, cyano, C1 4 alkoxy or nitro EMI84.1 each U9 is independently an alkylene diradical having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms X, X and X are independently 0 , S or NR4 Z and Z are independently, O or S , Z additionally can be thiol or S03 , and Z is S , S S , SO or 2 has a value of 2 6 n in each instance, has a value of O or 1 and m has a value of 1 6. 2. The. compound of Claim 1 having the formula EMI85.1 wherein M is CF3, Cl or CH3 Z is S , S S or S02 R7 is H or a lower alkyl radical m is 1 3. 3. The , compound of Claim 1 having the formula EMI85.2 wherein X is O , S or N CH3 R5 is an alkylene diradical of 2 to 6 carbon atoms or CH2CH2O 1 5CH2CH2 R6is dialkylamino alkyl having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms, optionally substituted with halogen or cyclic alkyl having 3 to 6 carbon atoms. 4. The . compound of Claim 1 having the formula EMI85.3 wherein R6 and R4 are independently hydrogen or alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms and R5 is an alkylene diradical of 2 to 6 carbon atoms or CH2CH2O 1 5CH2CH2 . 5. The compound of Claim 1 having the formula EMI86.1 wherein R6 and R4 are independently hydrogen or alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms and R5 is an alkylene diradical of 2 to 6 carbon atoms or CH2CH2O 1 5CH2CH2 . 6. The. compound of Claim 1 having the formula EMI86.2 wherein R5 is an alkylene diradical of 2 to 6 carbon atoms or CH2CH2O 1 5CH2CH2 and R6 is an alkyl radical of 1 to 4 carbon atoms. 7. The s compound of Claim 1 having the formula EMI86.3 wherein R5 is an alkylene diradical of 2 to 6 carbon atoms or CH2CH2O 1 5CH2CH2 and R6 is an alkyl radical of 1 to 4 carbon atoms. 8. The compound of Claim 1 having the formula EMI87.1 wherein R6 is a polyhydroxylated alkylene having from 2 to 4 carbon atoms 9. The compound of Claim 1 having the formula EMI87.2 wherein R5 is alkylene having from 2 to 10 carbon atoms or CH2CH2Z mCH2CH2 where m is 1 to 5 and Z is oxygen or sulfur. 10. The compound having the formula EMI87.3 wherein M is CF3 or C1 and R contains from 2 to 4 carbon atoms and is an aliphatically unsaturated hydrocarbon radical. II. The compound of Claim 1 having the formula EMI88.1 EMI88.2 tb SEP ci. SEP tb SEP II tb wherein SEP R8 SEP is SEP CH SEP 0 SEP Cl SEP SEP CHO SEP lower SEP alkyl SEP or tb SEP 0 tb lower SEP lower SEP alkyl. tb 12. The compourid of Claim 1 which is 2 chloroacetoxy ethyl 5 2 chloro 4 tr ifluorom eth ylphen oxy 2 nitrobenzoate. 13. The compound of Claim 1 which is 2 acetoxyethyl 5 2 chlor 4 trifluoro m ethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate. 14. The compound of Claim 1 which is 2 propionyloxy ethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate. 15. The compound of Claim 1 which is 2 propionyloxy ethyl 5q2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate. 16. The compound of Claim 1 which is 2 N,N diethylcarbamyloxy ethyl 5q2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate. 17. The composed of Claim 1 which is 4 N,N dimethylcarbamyloxy 2 buten I yl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate. 18. A herbicidal composition comprising an effective amount of a compound of the formula of Claim 1 and an agronomically acceptable carrier. 19. A method of controlling undesirable plant growth which comprises applying to the undesirable plant, plant part or plant situs a growth controlling amount of the herbicidal compound of Claim 1. 20. The method of Claim 19 wherein said application of said herbicide is effected during the growth stage of a desirable crop. 21. The method of Claim 19 wherein the herbicidal compound is applied at a rate of from 0.05 to 8 pounds per acre. 22. The method of Claim 21 wherein the herbicidal compound in an inert liquid carrier is applied as a liquid spray. 23. The process for the preparation of substituted diphenyl ethers of Claim 1 having the formula EMI89.1 wale. erin L M and N are independently hydrogen, halogen, trihalomethyl, nitro, cyano, C1 4 alkyl, C1 4 alkoxy andEMI89.2 which comprises reacting a correspondingly substituted phenoxybenzoic acid having the forEMI89.3 tb mula SEP gOH tb M QOQ tb SEP N tb with about a stoichiometric amount of a diacylating agent having the formulaHX A X H where A is R5,EMI89.4 or CH2 nR6 OH p 1 to produce the corresponding bis compound and then nitrating the bis compound to produce a compound having the formulaEMI89.5 and then optionally transacylating the bis compound with an excess of said ciacylating agent, preferably in the presence of a transacylating catalyst, to produce the comoounds of formula 1 where A is I. ill or V. namelvEMI90.1 and further optionally reacting the product of transacylation where A is R5 with a carbonyl containing compound of the formulaEMI90.2 or the acid halide or anhydride of such carbonyl containing compounds to produce the compounds of formula 1 where A is II or VI, namelyEMI90.3 where F is U8 or X nR6. 24, The process for the preparation of substituted diphenyl ethers ofClaim 23 wherein A is group IV which comprises reacting a phenoxybcnzoic acid having the formulaEMI91.1 with a diacylating agent h aving the formula HX A X H wherein A is R5,EMI91.2 or CH2 nR6 OH p 1 to produce the corresponding bis intermediate compound having the formula EMI91.3 and then nitrating said bis compound with a nitrating agent to produce the product having the formula EMI91.4 25. The process for the preparation of substituted diphcnyl ethers of Claim23wherein A is group 1, III or V which comprises transacylating the product of Claim24with an excess of said diacylating agent in the presence of a transacylating catalyst in a.transacylation zone to produce the corresponding product havin the formula EMI91.5 26. The process for the preparation of substituted diphenyl ethers ofClaim 23 wherein A is group II or VI which comprises reacting the product ofClaim 25 where A is Re with a carbonyl containing compound selected from the group of a compound having the formulaEMI92.1 and the acid halide or anhydride df said compound wherein F is R8 or X nR6, to produce the product having the formulaEMI92.2 27. The process of Claim 24 wherein the reaction of said phenoxybenzoic acid with said diacylating agent is effected at a temperature between about 200 and about 2000C. under from about 1 to about 5 atmospheres pressure and the nitration of said intermediate is effected at a temperature between about 5 and about 70 C. under atmospheric pressure. 28. The process of Claim 27 wherein the nitration is effected in the presence of an inert solvent and the concentration of said intermediate compound in said solvent is between about 10 and about 80 weight percent. 29. The process of Claim 27 wherein the mole ratio of said phenoxybenzoic acid to said diacylating agent is about 2 1 and the mole ratio of nitrating agent to said intermediate compound is about 2 1. 30. The process of Claim 24 wherein said phenoxybenzoic acid is 342 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy benzoic acid. 31. The process of Claim 30 wherein said diacylating agent is ethylene glycol. 32. The process of Claim 30 wherein said diacylating agent is 1, 3 propandiol. 33. The process of Claim 30 wherein said diacylating agent is 2 hydroxyethyl ether. 34. The process of Claim 30 wherein said diacylating agent is 2 hydroxyethyl sulfide. 35. The process of Claim 25 wherein said transacylation reaction is effected at a temperature between about 200 and about 2500C. under from about 1 to about 5 atmospheres pressure. 36. The process of Claim 35 wherein the catalyst is manganese acetate tetrahydrate. 37. The process of Claim 35 wherein the catalyst is an acid. 38. The process of Claim 35 wherein the mole ratio of diacylating agent to nitrated product is between about 1 1 and about 50 1 and unreacted diacylating agent is recycled to said transacylation zone. 39. The process of Claim 35 wherein said diacylating agent is ethylene glycol. 40. The process of Claim 39 wherein 1,2 bis 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro m 1,2 bis 0542 chlore4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoyloxy3ethane is reacted with ethylene glycol. 41. The process of Claim 35 wherein 1,3 bis 5 2 chloro 4 trifloromethyl phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoyloxy propane is reacted with 1, 3 propanediol. 42. The process of Claim 35 wherein 1,5 bis 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoyloxy 3 oxapentane is reacted with 2 hydroxyethyl ether. 43. The process of Claim 35 wherein 1,5 bis 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoyloxy 3 thiapentane is reacted with 2 hydroxyethyl sulfide. 44. The process of Claim 35 wherein 1,4 bis 542 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoyloxy 2 butene is reacted with 1, 4 butenediol. 45. The process of Claim 26 wherein said reaction with said carbonylcontaining compound is effected at a temperature of between about 0 and about 200 C. under from about 1 to about 5 atmospheres pressure. 46. The process of Claim 45 wherein the mole ratio of said carbonylcontaining compound to said transacylated component is between about 1 1 and about 20 1. 47. The process of Claim 26 wherein 2 hydroxyethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate is reacted with a carbonylcontaining compound. 48. The process of Claim 47 wherein the carbonyl containing compound is acetic acid. 49. The process of Claim 47 wherein the carbonyl containing compound is chloroacetic acid. 50. The process of Claim 47 wherein the carbonyl containing compound is methoxyacetic acid. 51. The process of Claim 47 wherein the carbonyl containing compound is propionic acid.

## Description
New Phenoxybenzoates, process for preparing these compounds, compositions containing them and method of use, This invention relates to certain phenoxybenzoates having excellent selective herbicidal properties. The compounds of the present invention are defined by the for EMI1.1 tb ula SEP 0 tb ,I P A tb SEP N SEP y tb wherein L, M and N are independently hydrogen, hydroxy, halogen, trihalomethyl, nitro, cya no, C1 4 alkyl, C14 alkoxy andEMI1.2 Xrepresents nitro, cyano,EMI1.3 and A is selected from the group of radicals defined by the formulae I Z CH2CH2Z mCH2CH2Z R7 EMI1.4 III X CH2 nR6 OH p EMI1.5 where in R is an unsaturated, straight chain or branched aliphatic radical having from 2 to 8 carbon atoms q and R2 are independently hydrogen or alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms R3 and R4 are independently hydrogen, or a saturated or unsaturated straight or branched chain C1 8 aliphatic radical optionally substituted with halogen, hydroxy, alkoxy, cyano or nitro R5 is a saturated or unsaturated, straight chain or branched aliphatic hydrocarbon radical of from 1 to 18 carbon atoms wherein one or more of the CH2 groups can be replaced with 0 , S , S s , SO , S02 or NR4 and said hydrocarbon radical is optionally substituted with halogen, trihalomethyl, cyano, aryl, hydroxy, alkoxy, nitro or cycloalkyl having 3 to 6 carbon atoms R6 is a saturated or unsaturated straight chain or branched aliphatic radical containing from 1 to 8 carbon atoms, optionally substituted with halogen, trihalomethyl, cyano, hydroxy, nitro, acetoxy, alkoxy, thioalkoxy or aryl an aryl radical optionally substituted with halogen, trihalomethyl, hydroxy, cyano, nitro, alkyl or alkoxy a cyclic 3 6 membered alkylene ring or 5 6 membered alkenylene ring or benzyl optionally substituted with halogen, trihalomethyl, alkyl, hydroxy, alkoxy or cyano R7 is hydrogen, C14 alkyl optionally substituted with halogen, trihalomethyl or cyano or aryl optionally substituted with halogen, trihalomethyl, cyano, C14 alkoxy or nitro EMI2.1 each Rg is independently an alkylene diradical having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms X, X and X are independently 4 , S or NR4 Z and Z are independently, 0 or S , Z additionally can be thiol or SO and Z is S , S S , SO or 2 has a value of 2 6 n in each instance, has a value of O or 1 and m has a value of 1 6. Certain diphenylethers have been found effective for control of noxious weeds however, herbicidal efficacy cannot be predicted from the substituent groups attached to the phenyl rings. More specifically compounds that are closely related frequently have markedly different capabilities for controlling weeds. Often, the diphenylether compounds have overlapping or complimentary areas of activity or selectivity such that combinations of these prior compounds were required for controlling a variety of weeds in a given area. Many of said prior diphenylether compounds are only marginally effective and many leave undesirable residues in the soil as a consequence of low biodegradability or required heavy dosages. Ideally, a herbicide should provide selective control over an entire growing season after a single application at low dosage rates and should be capable of destroying common weeds as seeds, germinating seeds, seedlings and growing or mature plants. Such herbicides as are recommended for crop treatment should also be non toxic to desirable vegetation and to the soil. Most beneficially, these herbicides should be dissipatable leaving no harmful residue. The present herbicidal compounds combine most of these desirable properties their efficacy being attributable to the active groups defined byA I through A VI in formula 1 above. Most active of the present herbicides are those having a sulfur or oxygen atom in the A side chain and, of these, the side chain defined by formula II exhibits the highest activity in both post emergent and pre emergent treatments as well as exceptional crop selectivity and high degradability in the soil. The following specific compounds illustrate the various types of herbicides providing the above benefits however, these are not to be construed as limiting to the scope of the invention as more properly defined by formula 1. HERBICIDES REPRESENTATIVE OF GROUP A I EMI4.1 Z SEP Z SEP Z SEP m SEP R7 SEP L SEP M SEP N SEP Y SEP Name SEP of SEP Compound tb S SEP S SEP SO3 SEP 1 SEP H SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP NO2 SEP 5 5 2 Chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 nitro SEP phenylcarboxylthio 3 thiapentyl SEP sulfonic SEP acid tb O SEP S SEP O SEP 1 SEP H SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 Cl SEP 6 Cl SEP NO2 SEP 5 Hydroxy 3 thiaphentyl 5 2,4,6 trichlorphenoxy SEP 2 nitro benzoate tb O SEP S SEP O SEP 1 SEP CH3 SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CN SEP H SEP NO2 SEP 6 Oxa 3 thiaheptyl 5 2 chloro 4 cyanophenoxy 2 SEP nitro benzoate tb O SEP S SEP O SEP 6 SEP H SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP NO2 SEP 20 Hydroxy 3,6,9,12,15,18 hexathiaeisosyl SEP 5 2 SEP chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb O SEP S SEP O SEP 1 SEP CH2CH2C2N SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP NO2 SEP 8 Cyano 6 oxa 3 thiaoctyl SEP 5 2,4 di trifluromethyl SEP methyl phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb O SEP S SEP O SEP 1 SEP H SEP 2 CF3 SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP NO2 SEP 5 Hydroxy 3 thiaphentyl 5 2,4 di trifluoromethyl SEP phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb S SEP S SEP S SEP 2 SEP Cl SEP Cl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP NO2 SEP 8 2,6 Dichloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3,6 SEP SEP SEP dithiaoctyl SEP 5 2 chloro 4 tifluoromethylphenoxy SEP SEP 2 nitro SEP thiobenzoate tb SEP tb SEP CF3 tb O SEP S SEP O SEP 1 SEP H SEP CF3 SEP CF3 SEP H SEP CN2 SEP 5 Hydroxy 3 thiaphentyl 5 2,4 di trifluoromethyl tb SEP phenoxy 2 cyano benzoate tb RTI ID 5.1 HERBICIDES REPRESENTATIVE OF GROUP A IZ Z Z m R7 L M N Y Name of CompoundO S O 1 H 2 Cl 4 CF3 H CN 2 Hydroxy 3 thiapentyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 cyano benzoateO S O 1 H Cl CF3 H N 2 Hydroxy 3 thiapentyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 N,N dimethyl aminobenzoateS S S 4 CH3 Cl CF3 H NO2 3,6,9,12,15 Pentathiahexadecyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 nitrothiobenzoate HERBICIDES REPRESENTATIVE OF GROUP A I EMI6.1 Z SEP Z SEP Z SEP m SEP R7 SEP L SEP M SEP N SEP Y SEP Name SEP of SEP Compound tb O SEP S S SEP O SEP 1 SEP H SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP NO2 SEP 2 Hydroxy 3,4 dithiahexyl 5 2 chloro 4 SEP trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 nitro benzoate tb O SEP S SEP O SEP 1 SEP H SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP NO2 SEP 5 Hydroxy 3 thiapentyl 5 2 chloro 4 tri SEP fluoromethyl phenoxy 2 nitro benzoate tb O SEP S S SEP O SEP 1 SEP H SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 Cl SEP H SEP NO2 SEP 6 Hydroxy 3,4 dithiahexyl 5 2,4 dichloro SEP phenoxy 2 nitro benzoate tb SEP O tb SEP tb O SEP S SEP O SEP 1 SEP H SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP NO2 SEP 5 Mercapto 3 thiadioxopentyl 5 2 chloro 4 SEP SEP trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 nitro benzoate tb SEP O tb SEP CH3 tb SEP tb O SEP SEP S SEP 0 SEP CH SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP NO2 SEP 3 This 4 methylpentyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro SEP SEP methyl phenoxy 2 nitro thiobenzoate tb SEP CH3 tb O SEP S SEP O SEP 1 SEP CH2CH2Cl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 Cl SEP H SEP NO2 SEP 8 Chloro 6 oxa 3 thiaoctyl 5 2,4 dichloro SEP phenoxy 2 nitro benzoate tb S SEP S SEP S SEP 1 SEP H SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP NO2 SEP 5 Mercapto 3 thiapentyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro SEP methyl phenoxy 2 nitro thiobenzoate tb O SEP S SEP O SEP 1 SEP H SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP CN2 SEP 5 Hydroxy 3 thiaoxo pentyl 5 2 chloro 4 tri SEP fluoromethyl phenoxy 2 cyano benzoate tb S SEP SEP SO3 SEP 0 SEP CH3 SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP NO2 SEP Methyl SEP 2 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 SEP nitro phenylcarboxythioethyl SEP sulfonate tb HERBICIDES REPRESENTATIVE OF GROUP A II EMI7.1 Compound SEP L SEP H SEP N SEP X SEP X SEP Y SEP R SEP X nR6 tb 2 Chloracetoxy ethyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH2Cl tb 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb 2 Acetoxyethyl SEP 5 2 chloro SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH3 tb 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb SEP CH3 tb SEP tb 2 Isobutyloxy ethyl SEP 5 SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH tb 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl SEP tb phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate SEP CH3 tb 2 Cyclopropanecarboxy SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP tb ethyl SEP 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2nitrobenzoate tb 2 Acryloyloxy ethyl SEP 5 2 SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH CH2 tb chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb 2 Methoxyacetoxy ethyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH2OCH3 tb 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb 3 Acetoxypropyl SEP 5 2 SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2CH2 SEP CH3 tb chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb 4 Chloroacetoxy butyl SEP 5 SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2CH2CH2 SEP CH2Cl tb 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb HERBICIDES REPRESENTATIVE OF GROUP A II EMI8.1 Compound SEP L SEP H SEP N SEP X SEP X SEP Y SEP R SEP X nR6 tb SEP Cl tb SEP SEP tb 2 3 Chlorobenzoyloxy SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP tb ethyl SEP 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2nitrobenzoate tb SEP Cl tb SEP SEP tb 2 2,4 Dichlorobenzoyloxy SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP ethyl SEP 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2nitrobenzoate tb 4 Acetoxy 2 buten 1 yl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH CH2CH2 SEP CH3 tb 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb 11 Chloroacetoxy 3,6,9 SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2O 3CH2CH2 SEP CH2Cl tb trioxaundecyl SEP 5 2 chloro4 trifluoromethylphenoxy tb 2 nitrobenzoate tb SEP tb 2 Benzoyloxyethyl SEP 5 2 SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH SEP tb chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb 6 Acetoxy 3,4 dithiahexyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 S S CH2CH2 SEP CH3 tb 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb 2 3 Amino 2,5 dichloroben SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP Cl SEP NH2 tb zoyloxy ethyl SEP 5 2 chloro SEP SEP tb 4 trifluromethylphenoxy SEP tb 2 nitrobenzoate SEP tb SEP C tb HERBICIDES REPRESENTATIVE OF GROUP A II EMI9.1 Compound SEP L SEP H SEP N SEP X SEP X SEP Y SEP R5 SEP X nR6 tb 2 2 Chloropropinoyloxy SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP tb ethyl SEP 5 2 chloro 4 tri SEP tb fluoromethylphenoxy 2 SEP Cl tb nitrobenzoate tb 2 2 Methylbutyloxy SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH3 tb ethyl SEP 5 2 chloro 4 tri SEP tb fluoromethylphenoxy 2 SEP CH CH2CH3 tb nitrobenzoate tb SEP CH3 tb 2 3,3 Dimethylacryloxy SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP tb ethyl SEP 5 2 chloro 4 tri SEP CH C tb fluoromethylphenoxy 2 SEP tb nitrobenzoate SEP CH3 tb SEP CH3 tb 2 2 Isobutyryloxy ethyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP N CH3 SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP tb N methyl SEP 5 2 chloro 4 SEP CH C tb trifluoromethylphenoxy SEP tb 2 nitrobenzoate SEP CH3 tb N 2 Acetoxyethyl N SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP NH SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH3 tb isopropyl SEP 5 2 chloro 4trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb N 2 Acetoxyethyl SEP 5 SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP NH SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH3 tb 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzamide tb SEP O tb SEP SEP O tb N,N Di 2 acetoxy SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP N CH2CH2 C CH3 SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH3 tb ethyl SEP 5 2 chloro 4trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzamide tb HERBICIDES REPRESENTATIVE OF GROUP A H EMI10.1 Compound SEP L SEP H SEP N SEP X SEP X SEP Y SEP R5 SEP X nR6 tb 2 Propionyloxy ethyl SEP 5 2 SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH2CH3 tb chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb 2 Trifluoroacetoxy ethyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CF3 tb 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb 5 Chloroacetoxy 3 oxa SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2OCH2CH2 SEP CH2Cl tb pentyl SEP 5 2 chloro 4trifluoromethylphenoxy tb 2 nitrobenzoate tb 6 N,N Dimethylcarbamyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2 6 SEP CH3 tb oxy hexyl SEP 5 2 chloro 4 SEP N tb trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 SEP CH3 tb nitrobenzoate tb 2 N,N Dimethylcarbamyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH3 tb oxy ethyl SEP 5 2 chloro 4 SEP N tb trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 SEP CH3 tb nitrobenzoate tb 5 N,N Dimethylcarbamyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2OCH2CH2 SEP CH3 tb oxy 3 oxapentyl SEP 5 2 SEP N tb chloro 4 trifluoromethyl SEP CH3 tb phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb 4 N,N Dimethylcarbamyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH CHCH2 SEP CH3 tb oxy 2 buten 1 yl SEP 5 2 SEP N tb chloro 4 trifluoromethyl SEP CH3 tb phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb HERBICIDES REPRESENTATIVE OF GROUP A II EMI11.1 SEP Compound SEP L SEP M SEP N SEP X SEP X SEP Y SEP R5 SEP X nR6 tb 4 N,N Dimethylcarbamyloxy SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 Cl SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2CH2CH2 SEP CH3 tb butyl SEP 5 2,4 dichloro SEP tb phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate SEP N tb SEP tb SEP CH3 tb 2 N,N Diethylcarbamyloxy SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH2CH3 tb ethyl SEP 5 2 chloro 4 tri SEP tb fluoromethylphenoxy 2 SEP N tb nitrobenzoate SEP tb SEP CH2CH3 tb 2 N 3 chlorophenyl carba SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2myloxy ethyl SEP 5 2 chloro 4 SEP NHtrifluoromethylphenoxy 2 SEP tb nitrobenzoate SEP Cl tb N 2 N,N Diethylcarbamyloxy SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP N CH2CH2CH3 SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH2CH2 tb ethyl N propyl SEP 5 2 chloro 4 SEP tb trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 SEP N tb nitrobenzamide SEP tb SEP CH2CH3 tb 2 N,N Diallylcarbamylamino SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP NH SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH2CH CH2 tb ethyl SEP 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro SEP tb methylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate SEP N tb SEP tb SEP CH2CH CH2 tb 3 Acetoxy 2,2 dimethylpropyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH3 tb 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro SEP tb methylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate SEP CH2 C CH2 SEP CH3 tb SEP tb SEP CH3 tb N 2 Acetylthio ethyl SEP 5 2 SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP NH SEP S SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH3 tb chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzamide tb N 2 Acetoxy ethyl N methyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP NCH3 SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH3 tb 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzamide tb HERBICIDES REPRESENTATIVE OF GROUP A H EMI12.1 SEP Compound SEP L SEP M SEP N SEP X SEP X SEP Y SEP R5 SEP X nR6 tb 2 N,N Dimethylcarbamyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP NH SEP S SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH3 tb thio SEP ethyl SEP 5 2 chloro SEP tb 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy SEP N tb 2 nitrobenzamide SEP tb SEP CH3 tb 2 N N,N Diethylcarbamyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP NH SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH2 CH3 tb amino SEP ethyl SEP 5 2 chloro SEP tb 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy SEP N tb 2 nitrobenzoate SEP tb SEP CH2 CH3 tb 2 N Acetylamino SEP ethyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP NH SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH3 tb 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb 2 3 Cyanopropionyloxy SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH2CH2 CH tb ethyl SEP 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb 2 3 Chloropropionyl ethyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH2CH2Cl tb 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb 2 Ethylacetoxy ethyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH2 C CH tb 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb 2 3 Nitropropionyloxy SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH2CH2NO2 tb ethyl SEP 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2nitrobenzoate tb HERBICIDES REPRESENTATIVE OF GROUP A H EMI13.1 SEP Compound SEP L SEP M SEP N SEP X SEP X SEP Y SEP R5 SEP X nR6 tb 2 3,3,3 Trifluoroprop SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH2CF3 tb ionyloxy ethyl SEP 5 2chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb 2 Thiomethoxyacetoxy SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH2SCH3 tb ethyl SEP 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2nitrobenzoate tb 2 3 N,N Dimethylamino pro SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH3 tb pionyloxy ethyl SEP 5 2 chloro SEP tb 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy SEP CH2 CH2N tb 2 nitrobenzoate SEP tb SEP CH3 tb 2 Cyclohexylacetoxy SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH2 tb ethyl SEP 5 2 chloro 4trifluoromethylphenoxy tb 2 nitrobenzoate tb 2 3 Hydroxypropionyloxy SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH2CH2OH tb ethyl SEP 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2nitrobenzoate tb 2 Phenylacetoxy ethyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH2 tb 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb HERBICIDES REPRESENTATIVE OF GROUP A H EMI14.1 SEP Compound SEP L SEP M SEP N SEP X SEP X SEP Y SEP R5 SEP X nR6 tb N methyl N 2 acetoxy SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP NCH3 SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2 CH2 SEP CH3 tb ethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2nitrobenzoamide tb 3 Chloroacetoxy 2 hydroxy SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2 CH CH2 SEP CH2Cl tb methyl propyl SEP 5 2 chloro SEP tb 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy SEP CH2Cl tb 2 nitrobenzoate tb 2 Chloromethyl 3 isobutynyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2 CH2 CH2 SEP CH3 tb oxypropyl SEP 5 2 chloro 4 SEP SEP tb trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 SEP CH2Cl SEP CH tb nitrobenzote SEP tb SEP CH3 tb 3 Propionyloxy 2,2 dimethyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH3 SEP CH2CH3 tb propyl SEP 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro SEP tb methylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate SEP CH2 C CH2 SEP tb SEP CH3 tb 2 Chloroacetoxymethyl 4 SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 Cl SEP 6 Cl SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2 CH CH2 SEP CH2Cl tb cyanobutyl SEP 5 2,4,6 trichloro SEP tb phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate SEP CH2CH2CN tb 3 Fluoroacetoxy 2 methoxy SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 Cl SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2 CH CH2 SEP CH2F tb methyl propyl SEP 5 2,4 dichloro SEP tb phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate SEP CH2OCH3 tb 2 Chloroacetoxy ethyl SEP 2 SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP 6 Cl SEP O SEP O SEP CN SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH2Cl tb cyano 5 2,6 dichloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy benzoate tb HERBICIDES REPRESENTATIVE OF GROUP A B EMI15.1 Compound SEP L SEP M SEP N SEP X SEP X SEP Y SEP R5 SEP X nR6 tb 2 Chloroacetoxy ethyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP CN SEP CH2 CH2 SEP CH2Cl tb 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 cyanobenzoate tb 2 Chloroacetoxy ethyl 2 SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NH2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH2Cl tb amino 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy tb benzoate tb SEP CH3 tb 2 Chloroacetoxy ethyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP N SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH2Cl tb 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro SEP CH3 tb methylphenoxy 2 N,Ndimethylamino benzoate tb SEP CH3 tb 2 N,N Dimethylcarbamoyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP N tb amino ethyl SEP 5 2 chloro SEP CH3 tb 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2nitrobenzamide tb SEP CH CH2 tb N 2 N,N Diallylcarbamyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP NH SEP NH SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP N tb oxy ethyl SEP 5 2 chloro 4 SEP CH CH2 tb trifluoromethylphenoxy 2nitrobenzamide tb SEP CH3 tb 2 N Methyl N N,N dimethyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP NCH3 SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP N tb carbamyl amino SEP 5 2 chloro SEP CH3 tb 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2nitrobenzoate tb RTI ID 16.1 HERBICIDES REPRESENTATIVE OF GROUP A H EMI16.1 Compound SEP L SEP M SEP N SEP X SEP X4 SEP Y SEP R5 SEP Xn nR6 tb SEP CH3 tb 2 N,N Dimethylcarbamyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP S SEP S SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP N tb thio ethyl SEP 5 2 chloro SEP CH3 tb 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy tb 2 nitrothiobenzoate tb N 2 S Ethylthiocarboxy SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP NH SEP NH SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP S CH2CH3 tb amino ethyl SEP 5 2 chloro5 trifluoromethylphenoxy tb 2 nitrobenzamide tb N 2 Ethoxycarboxyamino SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP NH SEP NH SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP OCH2CH3 tb ethyl SEP 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2nitrobenzamide tb SEP CH2CH3 tb N Methyl N 2 N,N diethyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP NHCH3 SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP N tb carbamyloxy ethyl SEP 5 2 SEP CH2CH3 tb chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzamide tb SEP CH3 tb 2 N,N dimethylcarbamyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 Cl SEP 6 Cl SEP S SEP S SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP N tb thio ethyl SEP 5 2,4,6 tri SEP CH3 tb chlorophenoxy 2 nitrothiobenzoate tb SEP CH3 tb 2 N,N Dimethylcarbamyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP N tb oxy ethyl SEP 2 cyano 5 2 SEP CH3 tb chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy benzoate tb HERBICIDES REPRESENTATIVE OF GROUP A H EMI17.1 Compound SEP L SEP M SEP N SEP X SEP X4 SEP Y SEP R5 SEP X nR6 tb SEP CH2CH3 tb 2 N,N Diethylcarbamyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP N tb oxy ethyl SEP 5 chloro 4 tri SEP CH2CH3 tb fluoromethylphenoxy 2cyanobenzoate tb 2 Acetylthio ethyl SEP 5 2 SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP S SEP S SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH3 tb chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrothiobenzoate tb 2 Acetoxyethyl SEP 5 2 chloro SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP S SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH3 tb 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy tb 2 nitrothiobenzoate tb 2 Acetylthio ethyl SEP 5 2 SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP S SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH3 tb chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrothiobenzoate tb 2 Acetamidoethyl SEP 5 2 SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP S SEP NH SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH3 tb chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrothiobenzoate tb N 2 Acetylthio ethyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP NH SEP S SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH3 tb 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoamide tb N Methyl N 2 Acetylthio SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP NCH3 SEP S SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH3 tb ethyl SEP 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2nitrobenzamide tb HERBICIDES REPRESENTATIVE OF GROUP A II EMI18.1 Compound SEP L SEP M SEP N SEP X SEP X SEP Y SEP R5 SEP X nR6 tb 2 N Methylacetamido SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP S SEP NCH3 SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH3 tb ethyl SEP 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2nitrothiobenzoate tb 2 Acetamidoethyl SEP 5 2 SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP NH SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH3 tb chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzamide tb 2 N methylacetamido ethyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP NCH3 SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH3 tb 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb 2 Chloroacetoxy ethyl SEP 2 SEP 2 CF3 SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH2Cl tb nitro 5 di trifluoromethyl tb phenoxy benzoate tb 2 Acetoxyethyl SEP 5 4 chloro SEP 2 CF3 SEP 4 Cl SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH3 tb 2 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb 2 Chloroacetoxy ethyl SEP 2 SEP 2 NH2 SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH2Cl tb nitro SEP 5 2 amino 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy benzoate tb 2 Cyclopropanecarboxythio SEP 2 CF3 SEP 4 NO2 SEP H SEP S SEP S SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP tb ethyl SEP 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrothiobenzoate tb HERBICIDES REPRESENTATIVE OF GROUP A II EMI19.1 Compound SEP L SEP M SEP N SEP X SEP X SEP Y SEP R5 SEP X nR6 tb 2 Chloroacetoxy ethyl SEP 2 CN SEP 4 CF3 SEP 5 Cl SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH2Cl tb 5 5 chloro 2 cyano 4trifluoromethylphenoxy tb 2 nitrobenzoate tb SEP CH3 tb 2 Acetoxyethyl SEP 5 2 chloro SEP 2 Cl SEP 4N SEP 5 CH3 SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH3 tb 4 N,N dimethylamino 5 methyl SEP CH3 tb phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb 2 Chloroacetoxy ethyl SEP 5 SEP 2 Cl SEP 4OCH3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CH2Cl tb 2 chloro 4 methoxyphenoxy tb 2 nitrobenzoate tb 2 Dichloroacetoxy ethyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP CN SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP CHCl2 tb 5 2 chloro 5 cyano 4trifluoromethylphenoxy 2nitrobenzoate tb HERBICIDES REPRESENTATIVE OF GROUP A III EMI20.1 Compound SEP L SEP M SEP N SEP X SEP n SEP Y SEP R6 OH p tb SEP CH2OH tb SEP tb 2,2 Bis hydroxymethyl propyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP 1 SEP NO2 SEP C CH2OH tb 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl SEP tb phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate SEP CH3 tb SEP OH tb SEP tb 2,3 Dihydroxypropyl SEP 5 2 chloro SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP 1 SEP NO2 SEP CH CH2OH tb 4 trifluoromethyl SEP phenoxy 2nitrobenzoate tb SEP OH SEP OH tb SEP SEP tb 2,3,4 Trihydroxybutyl SEP 5 2 chloro SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP 1 SEP NO2 SEP CH CH CH2OH tb 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb SEP CH2OH tb SEP tb 3 Hydroxy 2,2 di hydroxymethyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP 1 SEP NO2 SEP C CH2OH tb propyl SEP 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl SEP tb phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate SEP CH2OH tb SEP OH SEP OH SEP OH tb SEP SEP SEP tb 2,3,4,5 Tetrahydroxypentyl 5 2 SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP 1 SEP NO2 SEP CH CH CH CH2OH tb chloro 4 trifluoromethyl SEP phenoxy tb 2 nitrobenzoate tb SEP OH SEP OH tb SEP SEP tb 4 Cyano 2,3 dihydroxybutyl SEP 5 2 SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP 1 SEP NO2 SEP CH CH CH2C N tb chloro 4 trifluoromethyl SEP phenoxy nitrobenzoate tb OH p designates the number of OH groups in the R6 radical, however R6 itself can be mono or polyhydroxylated. Thus, the terminal group R6 OH p can also be defined simply as R6 where R6 is a polyhydroxylated radical. HERBICIDES REPRESENTATIVE OF GROUP A III EMI21.1 Compound SEP L SEP M SEP N SEP X SEP n SEP Y SEP R6 OH p tb SEP OH SEP OH tb SEP SEP tb 3 Chloro 2,4,5 trihydroxypentyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP NO2 SEP CH CH CH CH2OH tb 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl SEP tb phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate SEP Cl tb SEP OH SEP OH SEP OH tb SEP SEP SEP tb 2,3,4 Trihydroxy 5 methoxypentyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP NO2 SEP CH CH CH2 CH2OCH3 tb 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl tb phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb SEP OH SEP OH SEP O tb SEP SEP SEP tb 4 Acetoxy 2,3 dihydroxybutyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP NO2 SEP CH CH CH2 O C CH3 tb 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl tb phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb SEP OH SEP OH tb SEP SEP tb 2,3 Dihydroxy 4 trifluoromethylbutyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP NO2 SEP CH CH CH2 CF3 tb 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl tb phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb SEP OH SEP OH tb SEP SEP tb 2,3 Dihydroxy 4 nitrobutyl SEP 5 2 SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP NO2 SEP CH CH CH2 NO2 tb chloro 4 trifluoromethyl SEP phenoxy tb 2 nitrobenzoate tb SEP OH OH tb 2,3,4,5,6 Pentahydrocyclohexyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP NO2 SEP OH tb 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl SEP OH OH tb phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb HERBICIDES REPRESENTATIVE OF GROUP A III EMI22.1 Compound SEP L SEP M SEP N SEP X SEP n SEP Y SEP R6 OH p tb SEP OH tb 3,5 Dihydroxyphenyl SEP 5 2 chloro SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP 0 SEP NO2 SEP tb 4 trifluoromethyl SEP phenoxy 2 SEP OH tb nitrobenzoate tb SEP OH tb 2,4,6 Trihydroxybenzyl SEP 5 2 SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP 1 SEP NO2 SEP OH tb chloro 4 trifluoromethyl SEP phenoxy SEP OH tb 2 nitrobenzoate tb SEP OH tb SEP tb N 2,3 Dihydroxy propyl SEP 5 2 SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP NH SEP 1 SEP NO2 SEP CHCH2OH tb chloro 4 trifluoromethyl SEP phenoxy 2 nitrobenzamide tb SEP OH tb SEP tb N 2,3 Dihydroxy propyl N methyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP NCH3 SEP 1 SEP NO2 SEP CH CH2OH tb 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl tb phenoxy 2 nitrobenzamide tb SEP CH2OH tb SEP tb 2,2 Di hydroxymethyl propyl SEP 5 SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP S SEP 1 SEP NO2 SEP CH CH3 tb 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl SEP tb phenoxy 2 nitrothiobenzoate SEP CH2OH tb HERBICIDES REPRESENTATIVE OF GROUP A III EMI23.1 Compound SEP L SEP M SEP N SEP X SEP n SEP Y SEP R6 OH p tb 2,3,4 Tributyloxybutyl SEP 2 cyano SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP 1 SEP CN SEP OH SEP OH tb 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl SEP SEP tb phenoxy benzoate SEP CH CH CH2OH tb 2,3 Dihydroxypropyl 5 2 chloro SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP CN SEP OH tb 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 SEP tb oyanobenzoate SEP CH CH2OH tb 2,3,4 Trihydroxybutyl 2 amino SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP NH2 SEP OH SEP OH tb 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl SEP SEP tb phenoxy benzoate SEP CH CH CH2OH tb SEP CH3 tb SEP tb 2,3,4 Trihydroxybutyl 2 N,N SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP N SEP OH SEP OH tb dimethyl amino 5 2 chloro 4 SEP SEP SEP tb trifluoromethyl SEP phenoxy SEP benzoate SEP CH3 SEP CH CH CH2OH tb 2,3 Dihydroxypropyl 5 2,4,6 SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 Cl SEP 6 Cl SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP NO2 SEP OH tb trichlorophenoxy benzoate SEP tb SEP CH CH2OH tb 2,3 Dihydroxypropyl 5 2,4 di SEP 2 CF3 SEP 4 CF3 SEP N SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP NO2 SEP OH tb trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 SEP tb nitrobenzoate SEP CH CH2OH tb 2,3 Dihydroxypropyl 5 2 methyl SEP 2 CH3 SEP H SEP 6 NO2 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP NO2 SEP OH tb 6 nitrophenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate SEP tb SEP CH CH2OH tb 2,3 Dihydroxypropyl 5 2 chloro SEP 2 Cl SEP 3 CN SEP 4 CF3 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP NO2 SEP OH tb 3 cyano 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 SEP tb nitrobenzoate SEP CH CH2OH tb HERBICIDES REPRESENTATIVE OF GROUP A IVCompound L M N X X Y R5 1,5 Bis 5 2 chloro 4 tri 2 Cl 4 CF3 N O O NO2 CH2CH2OCH2CH2fluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoyloxy 3 oxapentane 1,6 Bis 5 2 chloro 4 tri 2 Cl 4 CF3 H O O NO2 CH2CH2SSCH2CH2fluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoyloxy 3,4 dithiahexane 1,4 Bis 5 2 chloro 4 tri 2 Cl 4 CF3 H O O NO2 CH2CH2CH2CH2fluoromethylphenoxy 2nitrobenzoyl butane 1,6 Bis 5 2 chloro 4 tri 2 Cl 4 CF3 H O O NO2 CH2CH2CH2CH2CH2CH2fluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoyloxy hexane 1,11 Bis 5 2 chloro 4 tri 2 Cl 4 CF3 H O O NO2 CH2CH2OCH2CH2OCH2CH2OCH2CH2fluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoyloxy 3,6,9 trioxaundecame 1,2 Bis 5 2 chloro 4 tri 2 Cl 4 CF3 H O O NO2 CH2CH2fluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoylxy ethane 1,3 Bis 5 2 chloro 4 tri 2 Cl 4 CF3 H O O NO2 CH2CH2CH2fluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoyloxypropane 1,10 Bis 5 2 chloro 4 tri 2 Cl 4 CF3 H O O NO2 CH2 10fluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoyloxy decane HERBICIDES REPRESENTATIVE OF GROUP A IV EMI25.1 Compound SEP L SEP M SEP N SEP X SEP X SEP Y SEP R5 tb 1,5 Bis 5 2 chloro 4 tri SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2SCH2CH2fluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoyloxy 3 thiapentane tb N 2 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP NH SEP S SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2methylphenoxy 2 nitrothiobenzoyloxy SEP ethyl SEP 5 2 chloro4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2nitrobenzamide tb 1,2 Bis 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP S SEP S SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2methylphenoxy 2 nitrothiobenzoyloxy ethane tb 1,4 Bis 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH CHCH2methylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoyloxy 2 butene tb 1,4 Bis 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2C CCH2methylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoyloxy 2,4 dioxaoctane tb 1,4 Bis 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2OCH2CH2OCH2CH2methylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoyloxy 2 butyne tb N,N Bis 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP NH SEP NH SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2methylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoyl 1,2 diaminoethane tb 2,4 Bis 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH CH2 CH2 CHmethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoyloxy SEP SEP tb hexane SEP CH3 SEP CH3 tb HERBICIDESREPRESENTATIVE OF GROUP A IV EMI26.1 Compound SEP L SEP M SEP N SEP X SEP X SEP Y SEP R5 tb 1,2 Bis 5 2 chloro 4 triflu SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2 CHoromethylphenoxy 2 nitro SEP tb benzoyloxy 3 chloropropane SEP CH2Cl tb 1,3 Bis 5 2 chloro 4 triflu SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2 CH CH2oromethylphenoxy 2 nitro SEP tb benzoyloxy 2 hydroxypropane SEP OH tb 1,3 Bis 5 2 chloro 4 triflu SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2 CH CH2oromethylphenoxy 2 nitro SEP tb benzoyloxy 2 methoxypropane SEP OCH3 tb 1,6 Bis 5 2 chloro 4 triflu SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2 CH CH2CH2 CH2 CH2oromethylphenoxy 2 nitro SEP tb benzoyloxy SEP 2 cyanohexane SEP CN tb 1,2 Bis 5 2 chloro 4 triflu SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2 CHoromethylphenoxy 2 nitro SEP tb benzoyloxy 3 nitropropane SEP CH2NO2 tb N 2 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2 CH2methylphenoxy 2 nitro benzoyl tb oxy ethyl SEP 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethoxyphenoxy 2 nitrobenzamide tb N Ethyl N 2 5 2 chloro 4 SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP NCH2CH3O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2 CH2trifluoromethylphenoxy 2nitro benzoyloxy ethyl SEP 5 2chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzamide tb HERBICIDES REPRESENTATIVE OF GROUP A IVCompound L M N X X Y R5 2 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro 2 Cl 4 CF3 H S O NO2 CH2CH2methylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoyloxy ethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrothiobenzoate 1,2 Bis 5 2,4 dichlorophenoxy 2 Cl 4 Cl H O O NO2 CH2CH22 nitrobenzoyloxy ethane 1,4 Bis 5 2,4,6 trichloro 2 Cl 4 Cl 6 Cl O O NO2 CH2CH CHCH2phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoyloxy 2butene 1,2 Bis 5 2,6 dichloro 4 2 Cl 4 CF3 6 Cl O O NO2 CH2CH2trifluoromethoxyphenoxy 2nitrobenzoyloxy ethane 1,2 Bis 5 2 chloro 4 methoxy 2 Cl 4OCH3 H O O NO2 CH2CH2phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoyloxy ethane 1,2 Bis 5 2 chloro 4 cyano 2 Cl 4CN H O O NO2 CH2CH2phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoyloxy ethane 1,2 Bis 5 5 amino 2 chloro 2 Cl 4CH3 5 NH2 O O NO2 CH2CH24 methoxyphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoyloxy ethane HERBICIDES REPRESENTATIVE OF GROUP A IV EMI28.1 Compound SEP L SEP M SEP N SEP X SEP X SEP Y SEP R5 tb 1,2 Bis 5 2 chloro 4 tri SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP CN SEP CH2CH2fluoromethylphenoxy 2 cyanobenzoyloxy ethane tb 1,2 Bis 2 amino 5 2 chloro SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NH2 SEP CH2CH24 trifluoromethylphenoxy tb benzoyloxy ethane tb SEP CH3 tb SEP tb 1,2 Bis 2 N,N dimethyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP N SEP CH2CH2amino 5 2 chloro 4 tri SEP tb fluoromethylphenoxy benzoyloxy SEP CH3 tb ethane tb 1,2 Bis 2 cyano 5 2,6 di SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP Cl SEP O SEP O SEP CN SEP CH2CH2chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy benzoyloxy ethane tb 1,2 Bis 5 2 chloro 4 tri SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP N SEP CH2CH2fluoromethylphenoxy benzoylethane tb HERBICIDES REPRESENTATIVE OF GROUP A V EMI29.1 Compound SEP L SEP M SEP N SEP Y SEP R1 SEP R2 SEP R tb 4 Hydroxy 2 buten 1 yl SEP 5 2 chloro 4 SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP NO2 SEP H SEP H SEP CH CHtrifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb 4 Hydroxy 2 buten 1 yl SEP 5 2,4 dichloro SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP NO2 SEP H SEP H SEP CH CHphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb 4 Hydroxy 2 butyn 1 yl SEP 5 2,4 dichloro SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP NO2 SEP H SEP H SEP C Cphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb 4 Hydroxy 2 butyn 1 yl SEP 5 2 chloro 4 SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP NO2 SEP H SEP H SEP C Ctrifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb 2 Ethenyl 4 hydroxybutyl5 2 chloro 4 SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP NO2 SEP H SEP H SEP CH2CH2trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate SEP tb SEP CH CH2 tb 5 Hydroxy 2 hexen 1 yl SEP 5 2 chloro 4 SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP NO2 SEP H SEP CH3 SEP CH CHCH2trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb 6 Hydroxy 2,4 hexadien 1 yl SEP 5 2 chloro 4 SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP NO2 SEP H SEP H SEP CH CHCH CHtrifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb HERBICIDES REPRESENTATIVE OF GROUP A V EMI30.1 Compound SEP L SEP M SEP N SEP Y SEP R1 SEP R2 SEP R tb 5 Hydroxy 3 hexen 2 yl SEP 5 2 SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP NO2 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP CH CHchloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy tb 2 nitrobenzoate tb 2 2 Hydroxyethyl 4 pentyl 1 SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP NO2 SEP H SEP H SEP CHCH2C CH tb yl SEP 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl SEP tb phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate SEP CH2 tb 4 Hydroxy 2 buten 1 yl SEP 5 2,4,6 SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 Cl SEP 6 Cl SEP NO2 SEP H SEP H SEP CH CHtrichlorophenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb 4 Hydroxy 2 buten 1 yl SEP 5 2 SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CH SEP H SEP NO2 SEP H SEP H SEP CH CHchloro 4 cyanophenoxy 2nitrobenzoate tb 4 Hydroxy 2 buten 1 yl SEP 5 2,6 SEP 2 NO2 SEP H SEP 6 NO2 SEP NO2 SEP H SEP H SEP CH CHdinitrophenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb 4 Hydroxy 2 buten 1 yl SEP 5 2 SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 OCH3 SEP H SEP NO2 SEP H SEP H SEP CH CHchloro 4 methoxyphenoxy 2nitrobenzoate tb 4 Hydroxy 2 butyn 1 yl SEP 5 2 SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP NO2 SEP H SEP H SEP C Cdimethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb HERBICIDES REPRESENTATIVE OF GROUP A IV EMI31.1 Compound SEP L SEP M SEP N SEP X SEP X SEP Y SEP R5 SEP R6 tb 2 2 Chlorophenoxyacetoxy SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2 CH2 SEP Cl tb ethyl SEP 5 2 chloro 4 tri SEP CH2 O tb fluoromethylphenoxy 2nitrobenzoate tb 2 2 Ethoxyethoxy SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2 CH2 SEP O tb carbonyl propionyloxy SEP tb ethyl SEP 5 2 chloro 4 SEP CH2CH2 C OCH2CH2OCH2CH3 tb trifluoromethylphenoxy 2nitrobenzoate tb 8 2,4 Dichlorophenoxy SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2O 2 CH2CH2 SEP Cl tb acetoxy 3,5 dioxaoctyl 5 SEP CH2 O Cl tb 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl tb phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb 2 2,4 Dichlorophenoxy SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2 CH2 SEP Cl tb acetoxy ethyl 5 2 chloro SEP CH2 O Cl tb 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy tb 2 nitrobenzoate tb 2 Methyloxalyloxy SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2 CH2 SEP O tb ethyl 5 2 chloro 4 SEP tb trifluoromethylphenoxy SEP C OCH3 tb 2 nitrobenzoate tb 2 Ethyloxalyloxy ethyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2 CH2 SEP O tb 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro SEP tb methylphenoxy 2 nitro SEP COCH2CH3 tb benzoate tb HERBICIDES REPRESENTATIVE OF GROUP A IV EMI32.1 Compound SEP L SEP M SEP N SEP X SEP X SEP Y SEP R5 SEP R6 tb 2 2 Methoxycarbonyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP O tb propionyloxy ethyl SEP 5 2 SEP tb chloro 4 trifluoromethyl SEP CH2CH2 C OCH3 tb phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb 2 Lavulinyloxy ethyl SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP O tb 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro SEP tb methylphenoxy 2 nitro SEP CH2CH2 C CH3 tb benzoate tb 2 2 Cyano 4 nitro SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP C N tb phenoxy propionyloxy ethyl SEP CH2CH2 O NO2 tb 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate tb 2 2,4,6 Trichlorophenoxy SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP NH SEP NH SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP Cl tb acetamido ethyl 5 2 chloro SEP CH2 O Cl tb 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2nitrobenzamide tb 2 Pyruvyl ethyl 5 2 chloro SEP 2 Cl SEP 4 CF3 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH2 SEP O tb 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 SEP tb nitrobenzoate SEP C CH3 tb The herbicides of the present invention can be prepared by various methods.For example, the compounds defined in formula 1 where A represents group I are most advantageously prepared by reacting a substituted phenoxybenzoyl chloride with a suitable alcohol or thiol, or by direct esterification of the phenoxybenzoic acids with the alcohols or thiols according to theEMI33.1 SEP 0 tb equation SEP II tb equation SEP I tb SEP CCI tb SEP XOY tb SEP or SEP SEP HZ CH2CH SEP Z SEP CH2CH2Z11R7 tb SEP o tb SEP ri tb SEP yOYHY tb SEP H2CH2ZV m SEP CH2CH2Z R7 tb The nitrophenoxybenzoic acids are prepared either by reacting the sodium or potassium salt of 3 hydroxybenzoic acid with suitably substituted halobenzenes, followed by aromatic ring nitration with a conventional nitrating agent, or by reacting the sodium or potassium salt of a correspondingly substituted phenol with 5 halo 2 nitrobenzoic acid. The phenoxybenzoyl chlorides are synthesized by reacting the corresponding benzoic acid with a chlorinating agent such as thionyl chloride. Those compounds represented by formula 1 wherein A is group II or group VI are advantageously prepared by reacting precurser I with II or precurser III with IV , as follows EMI34.1 where W in II and III is chlorine or bromine G is X nR6 or R8 and L, M, N, Y, X, R5, X , X n, R6 and R8 are as defined previously. The reactions may be carried out in the presence or absence of a base, and with or without a solvent. Compound I in the equations is prepared by reacting mshenoxybenzoic acid halide VI with reactant VIII . Compound IV in the equations is synthesized by reacting an acid halide,EMI34.2 with reactant Vm , as shown below.These reactionsEMI34.3 may be carried out in the presence or absence of a base, and with or without a solvent. The X H or XH functionality in VIII may be protected before condensation by reaction with a suitable protecting agent, such as chiorotrimethylsilane, which is removed later to regenerate the X H or XH group. The ester I, X X oxygen , is also prepared from the corresponding alcohols by reaction with m phenoxybenzoic acid XI in the presence of aEMI35.1 tb catalyst, SEP preferably SEP an SEP acid SEP as SEP follows SEP 0 tb SEP 9 SEP ii tb SEP L SEP o SEP CKH SEP SEP HOR SEP 50H SEP H SEP SEP vo SEP OR50H tb NL tb SEP N SEP Y SEP N SEP Y tb SEP IX SEP I,X X O tb Other methods of preparation will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the structure of the herbicides defined herein. The herbicides represented in formula 1 having group A III are best prepared by reacting a correspondingly substituted phenoxybenzoyl chloride with a suitable polyhydroxy compound. A convenient method for preparing the herbicides of formula 1 whereA is group IV is illustrated by the reaction of a substituted phenoxybenzoyl chloride with a suitable alcohol, amine, or thiol, or by the direct acylation of the phenoxybenzoic acids with the alcohols, amines or thiols. Preferably the reaction is run at about a 2 1 ratio of, e.g. acid to alcohol. Alternatively, an excess of alcohol may be used, e.g. a 1 5 ratio of acid to alcohol, to produce the mono intermediate, followed by self ester exchange at about 1000 250 C. while distilling out alcohol to produce the desired bis compound. Finally, the herbicides of formula I wherein A represents group V are prepared by reacting a substituted phenoxybenzoyl chloride with a suitable diol or its alkali metal salt, or by direct esterification of the phenoxybenzoic acid with the diol. All of the above synthesis are carried out at a temperature of between about 200C. and 2500C. under 1 5 atmospheres, preferably under atmospheric pressure with agitation. Examples 1 through 70 in the following disclosure provide a more detailed description for the preparation of the above herbicidal compounds although it is to be understood that other methods of synthesis may be employed if desired. In addition to the above described processes, a novel and convenient method for preparing herbicides of Formula 1 having the side chains of A I, III, IV and V and also having a side chain where A is X alkylene XH is described by the reaction of a phenoxybenzoic acid with a diacylating agent, such as a diol or dithiol to produce the corresponding bis compound. Examples of suitable acylating agents include ethylene glycol, 2 hydroxyethyl ether, 2,2 thiodiethanol, 1,2 ethanedithiol, ethylenediamine, 2 mercaptoethanol, 1,4 butenediol, 2 hydroxyethyl sulfide, and the like. This novel synthesis is defined by a 2 , 3 or 4 step process wherein the first 2 steDs involve reacting a substituted Dhenoxvbenzoic acid having the formulaEMI36.1 tb SEP 9 tb OH tb 0 SEP w SEP 4S SEP A. tb wherein L , M , and N are independently hydrogen, halogen, trihalomethyl, nitro, cyano, C14 alkyl, C1 4 alkoxy orEMI36.2 with a diacylating agent having the formula HXA X H wherein A is R5,EMI36.3 or CH2 nR6 OH p i at a temperature between about 200 and about 2000C. under from about 1 to about 5 atmospheres pressure for a period of from about 1 to about 40 hours preferably at a temperature between about 1000 and 1500C. under atmospheric pressure for a period of from about 10 to about 40 hours, to produce the corresponding biEMI36.4 tb s compound SEP having SEP the SEP Formula tb SEP L SEP C SEP XA X tb LM ffi oX SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP B. tb and then nitrating the bis compound with a conventional nitrating agent at a 0 and about 70 temperature between about and about 70 C. under atmospheric pressure for a period of from about 1 to about 10 hours preferably at a temperature between about OOC. and about 300C. for a period of from about 1 to about 5 hours, to produce the corresponding nitrated compound having the formula EMI36.5 It will be appreciated that when A is R5, the product of formula 1 A IV is directly produced by the second step, i.e. nitration step C. The above nitration step can be carried out in the absence or in the presence of an inert solvent, such as methylene dichloride, ethylene dichloride, chloroform, carbon tetrachloride, etc. Suitable nitrating agents include nitric acid sulfuric acid, potassium nitrate sulfuric acid, nitric acid sulfuric acid acetic anhydride and other conventional nitrating mixtures. When a solvent is employed, the concentration of the bis compound can be varied over a wide range limited only by economic considerations however, it is found that concentrations between aboutlO and about 80 weight percent provides good results. The mole ratio of diacylating agent to the phenoxybenzoic acid is most preferably about 1 2. The mole ratio of NO2 in the nitrating agent is most preferably 2 1 with respect to the intermediate bis compound although a greater excess of nitrating agent, can be employed if desired. When compounds of formula 1 having A group I, Ifl and V are desired, the nitrated product of the 2 step process described above is transacylated by reacting it with at least an equimolar amount of an above described diacylating agent at a temperature of between about 200 and about 2500C.under from about 1 to about 5 atmospheres pressure for a period of 0.5 to about 20 hours preferably at a temperature between about 1400 and about 2000C. under atmospheric pressure for a period of from about 1 to 10 hours.EMI37.1 tb The SEP reaction SEP is SEP generally SEP defined SEP by SEP the SEP equation SEP 9 tb SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP CXA X H tb SEP SEP 2 SEP HXA X H SEP 2 SEP SEP Ilooo SEP SEP XA X SEP 2 SEP 01 SEP D. tb NI SEP NO2 SEP N SEP NO2 tb SEP 2 tb The transacylating step .15 preferably carried out in a presence of a transacylating catalyst such as sulfuric acid, p toluene sulfonic acid, hydrogen halide, hydrated manganese acetate, boron trifluoride etherate, phosphoric acid, calcium oxide, barium oxide, lead oxide, sodium oxide, lead nitrate, zinc acetate, manganese borate, zinc borate or an acidic ion exchange resin. Of these transesterification catalysts, manganese acetate tetrahydrate has been found to be very effective. The mole ratio of diacylating agent employed in this third step of the reaction is between about 1 1 and 50 1, preferably between about 3 1 and about 20 1 with respect to the nitrated product of Step C.The excess and unreacted diacylating agent in this stage functions as a solvent for the transacylation reaction and is preferably separated from the product for recycle. When the 3 step process is carried out in batch operation the various coreactants in each step are added sequentially after substantial completion of the preceding reaction. However, the synthesis may also be effected in separate reactors operated in series with heating and or cooling devices between the various stages, as required. Also unreacted components may be separated from product and recycled to the appropriate stage. To obtain the products of A groups II and Vl,the product of equation D is reacted with a carbonyl containing compound of the formulaEMI38.1 or the acid halide or anhydride of such carbonyl containing compounds wherein X, X and n are as defined above and G is . X n R6 or R8, according to the reaction defined by equation E EMI38.2 Reaction E is effected at a temperature of between about 0 C. and about 200 C, under a pressure of from atmospheric to about 5 atmospheres over a period of from 0.5 to 20 hours preferably at between about 25 C. and about 750C. under atmospheric pressure over a period of from about l to 10 hours. Suitable carbonylating agents include acetic acid, chloroacetic acid, thioacetic acid, N,N dimethylcarbamyl chloride, pyruvic acid, propionic acid, methoxyacetyl chloride, acetic anhydride, phthalic anhydride, and the like. The carbonyl containing reactant is employed in a mole ratio of from about 1 1 to about 20 1 with respect to the product of reaction D. If desired the carbonylation can be effected in the presence of an inert solvent, e.g.tetrahydrofuran, and any of those previously given for the nitration reactionC. However, this reaction can be effected in the absence of solvent or in the presence of excess carbonyl containing compound which excess may function as a recyclable solvent to this stage of the reaction. The phenoxybenzoates of this invention may be applied in any amount which will give the required control of weeds depending on the type of weed and degree of infestation. A preferred rate of application of the benzoates is from 0.05 to 8 lbs. per acre. In practical application, the compounds may be applied in solid, liquid or in vaporized form, or, as it is generally done, as an active ingredient in a standard herbicidal composition or formulation which comprises a carrier. A generally accepted carrier is a substance which can be used to dissolve, disperse or diffuse the herbicidal components in the composition.Non limiting examples of liquid carriers include water, organic solvents such as alcohols, ketones, halogenated hydrocarbons, aromatic hydrocarbons, ethers, amides, esters, nitriles, mineral oils, palm oil and the like. Non limiting examples of solid carriers include Kaolin, bentonite, talc, diatomaceous earth, vermiculite, clay, gypsum, grain and seed hulls, ground corn cobs and the like.In addition to a carrier, it is usually desirable to add to the herbicidal formulation additives such as emulsifying agents, wetting agents, binding agents, stabilizer and the like or thickeners as desired for particular weather conditions or applications. The compounds may be formulated, for example, as a dust, wettable powders, paste, emulsifiable concentrates, granular formulations or as liquids or aerosols. The phenoxybenzoates of this invention may be applied along with plant growth regulators, insecticides, fungicides, nematocides and fertilizers.They may be applied in combination with one or more other herbicides. Non Limiting examples of other herbicides which can be incorporated with the phenoxybenzoates of this invention are anilides, such as N methoxymethyl 2,6 diethylphenyl chloroacetamide dinitroanilines, such as , trifluoro 2, 6 dinitro N ,N di propyl p toluidine carboxylic acids and derivatives triazines substituted ureas carbamates thiocarbamates uracils heterocycles and organo phosphorous compounds. Reference is now had to the following examples which illustrate preferred embodiments of the invention set forth herein. It is to be understood, however, that these examples should not be construed as limiting to the scope of the invention as more broadly defined herein above and in the following claims. EXAMPLE 1 Preparation of 6 Hydroxy 3,4 dithiahexyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro m ethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate A 5 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitro benzoyl chloride. A solution of 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoic acid 448.1 g, 1.24 mole , thionyl chloride 458 g and toluene 250 ml was held at reflux for 8 hrs. The excess thionyl chloride and the solvent were stripped off under reduced pressure to give a reddish solid, which upon recrystallization from hexane toluene afforded 282.9 g of the desired benzoyl chloride as a light yellow crystalline solid mp 63 690C. B 2 Hydroxyethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro m ethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate. A well stirred solution of 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy benzoyl chloride 282.9 g, 0.74 mole and ethylene glycol I000 ml was heated at 145 C. for 3 hours. Then triethlyamine 30 ml was added. The solution was reheated at 142 C . for 8 hours. After most of the ethylene glycol was distilled off under reduced pressure, the oil was taken up in 1700 ml of methylene chloride. The methylene chloride solution was washed three times with water, dried over MgS04 and concentrated to a gummy material.Molecular distillation afforded 226.2 g 75 yield of a pale yellow gum which solidified on standing. 3.5 g of the solid was recrystallized from hexane toluene to give 2.8 g of white solid mp 75 780C. nmr CDC13 0.3.32 S, 1H , 3.67 4.12 m, 2H , 4.15 4.63 m, 2H , 7.02 8.25 m, 6H ir CHOl3 1749 Cm 1. C 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoyl chloride 15 g, 0.04 mole was added to a solution of 2 hydroxyethyl disulfide 10 g, 0.065 mole and triethylamine 10 ml . The resulting mixture was held at 1000C. for 1 hr., cooled and was taken into 300 ml of ether. The ethereal solution was washed two times with water, dried over Mg S04 and concentrated to 12.1 g of thick oil.The oil was column chromatographed through silica gel with 40 ethyl acetate 60 hexane as eluent to yield 7.7 g of gum as pure 6 hydroxy 3 ,4 dithiahexyl 542 ehloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate nmr CDCl3 2.66 S, 1H , 2.78 3.22 m, 4H , 3.87 t, 2H , 4.60 t, 2H , 6.98 8.22 m, 6H ir CHCl3 3630, 1752 Cm EXAMPLES 2 AND 3 The following compounds within the scope of this invention were prepared using procedures similar to that described in Example 1. 2 5 Hydroxy 3 thiapentyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 nitro benzoate nmr CDCl3 g2.96 q, 4 H , 3.82 t, 2 H , 4.54 m, 2 H , 7.65 8.32 m, 6 H , ir CHCl3 3640 cm 1, 1743 cm 1. 3 6 Hydroxy 3,4 dithiahexyl 5 2,4 dichlorophenoxy 2 nitro benzoate nmr CDC13 2.40 S, 1 H , 2.89 t, 2 H , 3.04 t, 2 H , 3.92 t, 2 H , 3.63 t, 2 H 4.61 t, 2 H , 6.92 8.22 m, 6 H ir CHC1 , 3630, 1750 cm 1. EXAMPLE 4 Preparation of 2 Chloroacetoxyethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate Chloroacetyl chloride 3 g, 0.027 mole was added dropwise to a stirred solution of 2 hydroxyethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate 8.1 g, 0.02 mole , triethylamine 2.5 gl, and ether 150 ml . The heat given off during the reaction raised the temperature of the ether solution to reflux. After completion of addition, the mixture was kept at reflux for 10 min. The mixture then was allowed to cool to room temperature, poured into 200 ml of water, and 400 ml of ether was added. The ether extract was washed three tines with water, dried CaSO4 and concentrated to 8.6 g of yellowish oil. The oil was column chromatographed through silica gel with 20 ethyl acetate 80 hexane as eluent to afford 3.2 g of pure 2 chloroacetoxyethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate, as a pale yellow gumming material nmr CDCl3 4.16 S, 2w , 4.50 S, 4H , 6.98 8.18 a, 6H ir CHC13 1752, 1765. EXAMPLES 5 THROUGH 25 The following compounds within the scope of this invention were prepared using procedures similar to that described in Example 4. 5 2 Acetoxyethyl 5 2 chloro 4 tr i fluor omethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate mar CDCl3 2.06 s, 3H , 4.47 m, 4H , 7.02 7.89 m, 6H ir CHCl3 1743m 1789 cm 1. 6 2 Isobutyryloxy ethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate, nmr CDCl3 1.13 d, 6H , 2.58 sept, 1H , 4.52 m, 4H , 7.02 8.21 m, 6H ir CHCl3 1743, 1750 cm 1 7 2 Cyclopropanecarboxy ethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate CDCl3 0.38 1.89 m, 5H , 4.46 m, 4H , 7.00 8.25 m, 6H ir CHCl3 1740, 1749 cm 1 2 Acryloyloxy ethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate nmr CDC13 4.54 a, 4E , 4.72 6.77 m, 3B , 7.05 8.24 m, 6E ir CHCl3 1747, 1753 cm 1. 9 2 Methoxyacetoxy ethyl 5 2 chloro 4 tr ifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate nmr CDCl3 3.42 s, 3H , 4.06 s, 2H , 4.50 s, 4H , 6.79 8.23 m, 6H ir CHCl3 1750 cm 1. 10 3 Acetoxypropyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate nmr CDCl3 2.17 s, 3H , 2.00 t, 2H , 2.60 t, 2H , 4.35 t, 2H , 7.03 8.23 m, 6H ir CHCl3 1730, 1750 cm 1. 11 4 Chloroacetoxy butyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate nmr CDCl3 1.78 t, 2H , 1.89 t, 2H , 4.07 s, 3H , 4.05 4.58 m, 4H , 6.94 8.20 m. 6H ir CHCl3 1747, 1733 12 2 3 Chloroben oyloxy ethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate nmr CDCl3 4.66 s, 4H , 6.98 8.24 m, OH ir CHCl3 1738, 1750 cm 1. 13 2 2,4 Dichlorobenzoyloxy ethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate nmr CDCl3 4.66 s, 4H , 6.70 8.62 m, 9H ir CH3CN 1748 cm 1. 14 4 Acetoxy 2 buten 1 yl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate nmr CDCl3 2.06 s, 3H , 4.73 d, 2H , 4.98 d, 2H , 5.87 t, 2H , 7.00 8.24 m, 6H ir CHCl3 1743 cm 1. 15 11 Chloroacetoxy 3,6,9 trioxaundecyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate nmr CDCl3 3.32 4.62 m, 18H , 7.92 8.20 m, 6H ir CHCl3 1752, 1738 cm 1. 14 2 Benzoyloxyethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate nmr CDCl3 4.66 s, 4H , 6.96 8.30 m, 11H ir CHCl39 1735, 1750 cm 1. 17 6 Acetoxy 3,4 dithiahexyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate nmr CDCl3 2.07 s, 3H , 2.98 q, 4H , 4.23 t, 2H , 4.58 t, 2H , 6.98 8.22 m, 6H ir CHCl3 1748 cm 1. 18 2 3 Amino 2,5 dichlorobenzoyloxy ethyl 5 2 chloro 4 tri fluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate nmr DMSO C16 C4.60 5, 48 , 5.91 Is, 2H , 6.82 8.32 a, 8H ir neat 3495, 3400, 1742 cm 1 19 2 2 Chloropropionyloxy ethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate nmr CDCl3 1.68 d, 3H , 4.20 6.02 m, 5H , 6.98 8.22 m, 6H 1745, 1755 20 2 2 Methylbutyryloxy ethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate nmr CDCl3 0.86 t, 3H , 1.15 d, 2E , 1.60 m, 2H , 2.48 h, 11 , 4.50 m, 4E , 7.00 8.26 m, 6H ir CHCl3 1750 cm 1. 21 2 3,3 Dimethylacryloxy ethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate nmr CDCl3 1.90 d, 3H , 2.14 d, 3H , 4.50 m, 4H , 5.73 m, 1H , 6.98 8.82 a, 6H ir CDC13 1725, 1745 22 N 2 Isobutyryloxy ethyl N methyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate, nmr CDCl3 1.12 d, 6E , 260 m, 1H , 2.96 and 3.17 2s, 3E , 3.40 and 3.80 2t, 21 , 4.14 and 4.40 2t, 2E , 6.72 8.48 m, 6E ir CHC13 1650, 1740 23 N 2 Acetoxyethyl N isopropyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate CDCl3 1.10 t, 6H , 2.02 s, 3E , 3.22 3.89 1, 3H , 4.38 m, 2E , 6.74 8.36 m, 6H ir CHCl3 1642, 1746 cm 1. 24 N 2 Acetoxyethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylepoxy 2 nitrobenzamide nmr CDCl3 2.00 s, 3H , 3.62 m, 2H , 3.18 m, 2H , 6.62 t, 1H , 6.82 8.22 8m, 6H ir CHCl3 3230, 1690, 1755 25 N,N Di 2 Acetoxy ethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethy phenoxy 2 nitrobenzamide nmr CDCl3 2.03 s, 6H , 3.46 a, 2E , 3.83 m, 2H , 4.20 m, 2H , 4.44 m, 2E , 6.82 8.42 m, 6H ir CHCl3 1655, 1750 cm 1. EXAMPLE 25 Preparation of 2 Propionyloxyethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylpenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate Propionyl chloride 2.9 g, 0.032 mole was added dropwise to a solution of 2 hydroxy 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate 6 g, 0.016 mole and triethylamine 25 ml . A yellowish salt was precipitated. The mixture then was heated to and held for 1.75 hr. at reflux, cooled and taken into 400 ml of methylene chloride. The methylene chloride solution was washed two times with water, dried over MgSO4 and concentrated to an oil. Kugelrohr distillation at a temperature 170 C. afforded 5.7 g 91 yield of colorless gum nmr CDC13 g1.09 t, 3H , 2.37 q, 2H , 4.45 m, 4H , 7.00 8.22 m, 6H ir CHCl3 1750 cm 1 1 27 Preparation of 2 Trifluoroacetoxy ethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate Trifluoroacetic anhydride 8.4 g, 0.04 mole was added portionwise to a solution of 2 hydroxyethyl 5 2 chloro 4 tri fluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate 7g, 0.017 mole and 50 ml of ether. After holding at 30 350C. for an hour, the solution was allowed to stand at room temperature overnight. Excess trifluoroacetic anhydride was removed and 300 ml of ether was added. The ethereal solution was washed three times with water, dried over CaSO4 and concentrated to an oil. Kugelrchr distillation afforded 3.6 g of pure 24trifluoroacetoxy ethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate as a gumming material yield 42.2 nmr CDCl3 4.62 8s, 4H , 7.02 8.19 m, 6H ir CHCl3 1752, 1803 cm 1. EXAMPLE 28 Preparation of 5 chloroacetoxy 3 oxapentyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate A 5 Hydroxy 3 oxapentyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate. A mixture of 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoic acid 5.6 g, 0.015 mole , 2 hydroxyethyl ether 6.4 g, 0.06 mole and p toluenesulfonic acid 200 mg was heated at 135 142 C. for 26 hrs. The resulting solution was cooled to room temperature, taken into 400 ml of ether. The ethereal solution was washed three times with water, dried over CaSO4 and concentrated to 4.9 g of a yellowish gum. The gum was chromatographed on silica gel and eluted with hexane ethyl acetate 90 10 yield 3.4 g of pure 5 hydroxy 3 oxapentyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate as a pale yellow gum nmr DMSO d6 3.56 s, broad 5H , 3.76 m, 2H , 4.52 m, 2H , 7.18 8.40 m, 6H ir CHCl3 3610, 1750 cm 1. B 5 Hydroxy 3 oxapentyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethly phenoxy 2 nitroben oate 4 g, 0.009 mole and triethylamine 2 ml were dissolved in 200 ml of anhydrous ether in a 500 ml roundbottomed flask. Chloroacetyl chloride 5g, 0.44 mole was added dropwise. The solution was held at reflux for 4.5 hrs.A large amount of salt precipitated. The ether solution was washed two times with sodium bicarbonate and three times of water, dried over CaSO4 and concentrated to 3.6 g S chloroacetoxy 3 oxapentyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 ni trobenzoate as a gum nmr CnC13 J3.62 3.93 m, 41 , 4.09 s, 3H , 4.27 4.66 m, 4E , 6.96 8.22 m, 6H ir CHCl3 1754, 1768 cm 1. EXAMPLE 29 Preparation of 6 N,N dimethylcarbamyloxy hexyll 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxyj 2 nitrobenzoate 6 Hydroxyhexyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate S g, 0.014 mole and N,N dimethylcarbanyl chloride 11.68 g, 0.109 mole were charged into a 80 ml round bottomed flask. The solution was heated at 100 C. for 2 hrs, cooled and take into 300 ml of ether.The ethereal solution was washed three times with water, dried over MgSO4After the solvent being stripped off 5.9 g of 6. N,N dimethyl car bamyloxy hexyl 5 2 chloro 4 tr i fluor omethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate was obtained as a brownish qua yield, 86 M nmr CDCl3 1.06 2.08 m, 8H , 2.90 s, 6H , 4.09 t,2H , 4.30 t, 2H , 6.98 8.21 m, 6H ir CHCl3 1696, 1742 cm 1. EXAMPLES 30 THROUGH 36 The following compounds within the scope of this invention were prepared using procedures similar to that described in Example 29. 30 2 N,N, Dimethylcarbamyloxy 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate nmr DMSO d6 2.86 s, 6H , 4.20 4.76 m, 4H , 7.22 8.79 m, 6H ir CHCl3 1702, 1748 cm 1. 31 5 N,N Dimethylcarbanyloxy 3 oxapentyl 5 2 chloro 4trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate nmr CDCl3 2.92 s, 6H , 3.72 m, 4H , 4.20 m, 2H , 4.50 m, 2H , 7.00 8.26 m, 6H ir CHCl3 1700, 1746 cm 1. 32 4 N,N Dimethylcarbamyloxy 2 buten 1 yl 5 2 chloro 4trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate nmr CDCl3 2.92 s, 6E , 4.72 8m, 2E , 4.98 m, 28 , 5.86 m, 4E , 7.00 8.22 m, 6H ir CHCl3 1750, 1710, 1594 Cm 1. 33 4 N,N Dimethylcarbamyloxy butyl 5 2,4 dichlorophenoxy 2nitrobenzoate nmr CDCl3 1.54 2.06 m, 4H 2.92 s, 6H , 3.93 4.56 m, 4H , 6.95 8.19 m, 6H ir CHCl3 1702, 1748 Cm 1. 34 2 N,N Diethylcarbamyloxy ethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate nmr CDCl3 110 t, 6H , 3.28 q, 4H , 4.49 m, 4H , 6.98 8.23 m, 6H ir CHCl3 1720, 1760 Cm 1. 35 2 N 3 chlorophenyl carbamoyloxy ethyl 5 2 chloro 4trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate nmr DMSO d6 4.16 4.88 m, 4H , 6.86 8.42 m, 10H ir CHCl3 3245, 1604, 1750 Cm 1. 36 N 2 N,N Diethylcarbamoyloxy ethyl N propyl 5 2 chioro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoamide nmr CDCl3 1.12 m, 9H , 3.25 m, 6H , 3.54 4.60 m, 4H , 6.82 8.65 m, 6H ir CHCl3 1655, 1705 Cm 1. EXAMPLE 37 Preparation of 2 N,N Diallylcarbamoylamino ethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitroben oate A N,N Diallylcarbamyl chloride In a 500 ml round bottomed flask equipped with a condenser, mechanical stirrer, gas inlet, gas outlet and a trap 52.2 g of phosgene was dissolved in 300 ml of toluene. Diallylamine 51.3 g was added dropwise over 1.5 hrs. The reaction mixture was then heated to and held at reflux for 1 hr., cooled and left overnight. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure.Pure 2 N,N diallylcarbamyl chloride 59.1 g, 70.1 yield was collected at 58 60 C. 0.3 mm Hg , nmr neat 3.96 S, broad, 4H , 4.95 6.20 m, 61 . B 2 R,N Diallylcarbamvlamino ethyl 5 2 chloro 4 tr ifluoromethylhenoxy 2 njtroben oate was prepared using procedures similar to that described in Example 37 A . EXAMPLE 38 Preparation of 3 Acetoxy 2,2 dimethylpropyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate A 3 hydroxy 2,2 dimethyl propyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 5 nitrobenzoate In a three necked 250 ml round bottomed flask, sodium hydride 1.6 g, 60 40 in oil, 0.04 mole was washed two times with hexane and pre dried THF 100 ml was added. 1,3 propandiol 27.4 g, 0.26 mole then was added dropwise and the mixture was stirred for an hour at room temperature. 5 2 chloro 4 tri fluoromethyl phenoxy 2 nitro benzoyl chloride 10 g, 0.026 mole vas added in 1 2 hr. at a temperature below 30C. The mixture was heated to 57 C for 1.25 hr., cooled, and concentrated under vacuum.The mixture then was taken up in 500 ml of ether, washed three times with water, dried over MgSO4 and concentrated to an oil, Kugelrohr distillation of the oil afforded 5.35 g of the hydroxypropanyl ester. Purification of the oil through a silica gel column with 65 hexane 35 ethyl acetate as an eluent gave 3.5 g of the pure 3 hydroxy 2,2 dimethyl propyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 nitro, benzoate nmr CDCl3 0.96 m, 6H , 2.48 s, 1H , 3.40 s,2H , 4.15 s, 2H , 7.05 8.22 m, 6H ir CHCl3 3650, 1744 Cm 1. B Acetyl chloride 0.79 g, 0.01 mole was added to a solution of 3 hydroxy 2,2 dimethyl propyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate 0.25 g, 0.00056 mole and THF 10 ml . The solution was held at reflux for 3 hrs., cooled and concentrated. The residue was taken into 250 ml of ether, washed two times with water and dried over MgSO4. After the solvent was stripped off, 2.1 g of 3 Acetoxy 2,2 dimethylpropyl 5 2 chloro 4 tr I fluoromethylphenoxy 2 ni trobenzoate was obtained as a yellowish gum, nmr CDCl3 1.0 s, 6E , 2.03 s, 31 , 3.87 s, 2E , 4.12 s, 2H , 6.96 8.22 m, 6H ir CHCl3 1743 Cm 1. EXAMPLE 39 Preparation of N 2 Acetoxy ethyl N methyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzamide A 4 2 Hydroxyethyl N methyl 5 2 chloro 4trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzamide. 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoyl chloride 7 g, 0.0184 mole was added over 1 hr to a solution of N methylaminoethanol 2.8 g, 0.0372 mole , triethylamine 3.7 g, 0.0368 mole and THP 30 ml at 25 38. The resulting mixture was heated to and held at reflux for 1.5 hrs., cooled and concentrated.The residue was taken into 400 ml of ether, washed three times with water, dried over MgSO4 and concentrated to 7.8 g of crude product. Kugelrohr distillation under reduced pressure afforded 3.0 g of pure N 2 Hydroxyethyl N methyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzamide as a gum nmr CDCl3 2.95 3.08 25, 31 3.22 3.82 m 4.74 s, 11 , 7.04 8.52 m, 6H Ir CEC13 3640, 3420, 1648 Cm 1. B Acetyl chloride 2.7 g, 0.0344 mole was added dropwise in 5 mins. to a solution of N 2 hydroxyethyl N methyl 5 2chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzamide 7.2 g, 0.0172 mole , triethylamine 25 ml and TIF 25 ml . The resulting mixture was heated up to and held at reflux for 2.5 hrs., cooled and concentrated. The residue was taken into 500 ml of ether, washed two times with water, dried over MgSO4 and concentrated to 8.6 g of crude product.The crude product was purified on a column of silica gel using ethyl acetate cyclohexane 1 3 as eluent to yield 3.5 g of pure N 2 acetoxy ethyl N methyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzamide as a gum nar CDCl3 62.04 s, 38 , 2.92 s 3.15 s 3H , 3.40 t 3.79 t 2H 4.12 t 4.40 t 2H , 6.80 8.42 m, 6H ir CHCl3 1750, 1655 Cm 1. EXAMPLE 40 Preparation of N 2 Acetylthio ethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzamide A N 2 Thioethyl 5 2 chloro 4 tr i fluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzamide. 2 Aminoethanethiol hydrochloride 5.7 g, 0.050 mole was placed in a 3 neck 100 ml round bottom flask with rubber septum, magnetic stirrer, gas Inlet and outlet valves. Acetonitrile 50 ml and diisopropylethylamine 19.0 ml, 0.11 mole were Introduced under nitrogen. The resulting suspension was chilled to OC. and chlorotrimethylsilane 7.0 ml, 0.055 mole was added at once with a 10 c.c. syringe. After 20 mins., 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoyl chloride 19.0 g, 0.050 mole in 20 ml of acetonitrile was added dropwise over 0.5 hr. Diisopropylethylamine 8.7 ml, 0.050 mole was added and the mixture was stirred at 0 for 1 hr. and at room temperature for 3 hrs.The mixture was poured into ice water 150 ml , extracted with dichloromethane 2 x 75 ml . The extract was washed with water 2 x 50 ml , 5 hydrochloric acid 1 x 50 ml , 5 sodium bicarbonate 1 x 75 ml and saturated sodium chloride solution 1 x 75 ml . After drying over sodium sulfate, the solvent was removed in vacuo to yield 19.5 9 ofN 2 thioethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzamide as a brown solid m.p. 129 132 C. nmr CDC13 1.44 t, 11 , 2.78 q, 2H , 3.53 q, 2s , 6.38 8.28 a, 7H ir CHCl3 3452, 3320, 1675 Cm 1. B Acetyl chloride 2.1 ml, 0.038 mole was added dropwise into a solution of N 2 thioethyl 5 2 chloro 4 tri fluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzamide 5 g, 0.012 mole , triethylamine 5 ml and acetonitrile 100 ml at 0 C. The resulting mixture was stirred for 5 hrs. and poured into 300 ml of ether. The ether solution was washed three times with water, dried over CaSO4 and concentrated to 4.7 g of orange gum.Kugelrohr distillation at 160 C. and 1.5 mi Hg afforded 3.5 g of pure N 2 acetylthio ethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzamide nmr CDCl3 2.32 s, 3g , 3.13 a, 21 , 3.60 m, 2z , 652 s, broad, 11 , 6.89 8.20 m, 6H ir CHCl3 3460, 3360, 1682, 1592 Cm 1 EXAMPLE 41 Preparation of 2 N,N Dimethylcarbamylthio ethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl 2 nitrobenzamide N,N Dimethylcarbamyl chloride 4 9, 0.037 mole was added dropwise to a solution of N 2 thioethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzamide 5 g, 0.012 mole , triethylamine 5 ml and acetonitrile 100 ml at 0 C.After being stirred at 0 C. for 5.5 hrs. the solvent was stripped off under reduced pressure. The residue was taken into 400 ml of ether, washed three times with water, dried over CaSO4 and concentrated to 6.2 g of yellow solid. The crude solid was chromatographed through a silica gel column ethyl acetate cyclohexane, 3 7 , to give 4.2 g of pure 2 N,N dimethylcarbamyl thio ethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzamide as a yellowish white solid mp 100 102 C., nmr CDC13 2.95 s, 6E , 3.10 m, 2E , 3.63 m, 2w , 6.80 8.24 m, 6H fr CHCl3 3450, 3320, 1675, 1650 Cm 1. EXAMPLE 42 Preparation of 2 N N,N Diethylcarbamyl amino ethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate A N,N Diethyl N hydroxyethyl urea. N,N Diethylcarbamyl chloride 8.2 g, 0.06 mole in TEF 15 ml was added dropwise to a solution of aminoethanol 3.08 g, 0.05 mole , triethylamine 6.08 g, 0.06 mole andTHF 25 ml at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 60 hrs., filtered and concentrated to 9.0 g of N,N diethylN hydroxyethyl urea as a pale yellow oil nmr CDCl3 1.15 t, 3H , 2.88 3.84 m, 8H , 5.26 s, broad, 11 , ir neat 3380, 1620 C2 1. B 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoyl chloride 3.8 g, 0.010 mole in 15 ml of TEF was added dropwise to a solution of N,N dicthyl N hydroxytthyl urea 2.5 g, 0.015 mole , triethylamine 1.2 g, 0.012 mole and THF 25 ml at 0 C. The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight, filtered and concentrated. The residue was taken into 75 ml of methylene chloride, washed three times with a saturated NAHCO3 solution and one time with water. After being dried over Na2SO4 and concentrated, a brown oil 5.0 g was afforded.The oil was column chromatographed through silica gel with 50 ethyl acetate 50 cyclobexane as eluent to give 3.3 g of 2 N N,N diethylcarbamyl amino ethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate as a brown solid mp 89 90 C., NMR CDCl3 1.12 t, 6H , 3.23 q, 41 , 3.67 t, 2H , 4.46 t, 2H , 4.95 s, broad 11 , 6.92 8.28 m, 6H ir CHCl3 3485, 1750, 1680 Cm 1. EXAMPLE 43 Preparation of 2 N Acetylamino ethyl 5 2 chloro 4 tr i fluor omethv Iphenoxy 2 ni troben oate N Acetylethanolamine 2.9 g, 0.021 mole, 75 by wt. in E20 and toluene 60 ml were introduced in a 100 ml round bottom flask equipped with a Dean Stark apparatus. The mixture was held at reflux for 2 hrs. to remove water frox the solution. An oil separated froa the toluene solution upon cooling. TIP 50 ml was added. To the resulting solution were added 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoyl chloride 8 g, 0.021 mole and triethylamine 1 ml . The mixture was held at reflux for 1.67 hr. and concentrated.The residue was taken into 450 ml of ether, washed two times with H2O, dried over MgSO4, filtered and concentrated to yield 8.0 g of gum. The gum was column chromatographed through silica gel with 202 ethyl acetate 80 cyclohexane as eluent to give 6.4 g of 2 N acetylamino ethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate as a brownish gum nmr CDC13 1.98 s, 31 , 3.58 m, 2z , 4.42 a, 2s , 6.25 s, broad 11 , 6.98 8.22 m, 6H ir CHCl3 3464, 1752, 1680 Cm 1 EXAMPLE 44 Preparation of 2,2 Bis hydroxymethyl propyl 5 2 Chloro 4 Trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 Nitrobenzoate To a solution of 1,1,1 tris hydroxymethyl ethanol 10 g., 0.083 mole , triethylamine 7.26 g, 0.07 mole and tetrahydrofuran 250 ml is added 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoyl chloride 10 g, 0.026 mole . The mixture is held at reflux for 4 hrs., the solvent is stripped off and the residue is taken in to 400 ml of ethyl ether. The etheneal solution then is washed three times with water, dried over CaSO4 and concentrated to 10.6 g of an amber gum. The gum is chromatographed on silica gel and eluted with ethyl acetate hexane 30 70 yield 5.6 g of pure 2,2 bis hydroxy methyl propyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifloromethylphenoxy 2 nitro benzoate as a yellow gum nmr CDCl3 0.86 S, 3H , 2.66 S, 2E , 3.58 S, 4H , 4.34 S, 2H , 6.88 8.12 m, 6H ir CHCl3 3660, 3540, 1750 cm 1. EXAMPLE 45 Preparation of 2,3 Dihydroxypropyl 5 2 Chloro 4 Trifluoro methyl phenoxy 2 Nitrobenzoate Glycerol 31.5 g, 0.34 mole , triethylamine 3.63 g, 0.035 mole and THF 50 ml are heated in a 100 ml flask with agitation. Then 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitroben zoyl chloride 15 9, 0.0395 mole is added and the mixture is heated to 60 67 C. for 2 hrs., cooled and concentrated. The residue is taken into 400 ml of ether, washed two times with water and dried over MgSO4 to afford 14.3 g of a yellowish gum. The gum is column chromatographed on silica gel and eluted with ethyl acetate hexane 10 90 yield 5.0 9 pure 2,3 dihydroxypropyl 5 2 chloro 4 tr ifluoromethylphenoxy 2 ni trobenzoate as a pale yellow gum, nmr CDCl3 3.16 S, 2s , 3.68 d, 21 , 3.95 m, 1H , 4.34 d, 2H , 6.96 8.21 m, 6H ir CHCl3 3520, 1750 EXAMPLE 46Preparation of 1,5 Bis 5 2 Chloro 4 Trifloromethylphenoxy 2Nitrobenzoyl 3 Oxa Pentane A mixture of 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoic acid 5.6g, 0.015 mole , 2 hydroxyethyl ether 5.59g, 0.035 mole and p toluenesulfonic acid 100 mg was heated at 1330C for 18 hrs.The resulting solution was transferred into aAugelrohr apparatus and further heated at 180 214 C at 1 m.m. for 3 hrs. The solid residue obtained was dissolved in 400 ml of ether, washed three times with water, dried over CaSO4 and concentrated to give 4.9 g of black oil. The oil was chromato graphed through silica gel eluted with ethyl acetate hexane 1 4 to afford 2.9 g of the desired compound as a pure yellow gum nmr CDCl3 3.83 m, 4H , 4.49 m, 4H , 6.92 8.26 m, 12H ir CHCl3 1750 cm 1 EXAMPLE 47 Preparation of 1,6 Bis 5 2 Chloro 4 Trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 Nitrobenzoyloxy 3, 4 Dithiahexane 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoyl chloride 15g, 0.0394 mole was added to a solution of 2 hydroxy ethyl disulfide 3,0g, 0.0197 mole , triethylamine 10 ml and ThP 100 ml . The mixture was heated and held at reflux for 6 hrs. After the THF was stripped off, the residue was taken into 500 ml of ether. The ethereal solution was washed three times with water, dried over CaS04 and concentrated to 15.lg of a brown oil. The oil was column chromatographed on silica gel, elute with ethyl acetate hexane 3 7 to give 9.3g of the desired compound as a pure light, yellow gum nmr CDCl3 3.00 t, 4H , 4.59 t, 4H , 6.98 8.25 a, 12H ir CHCl3 1754 cm l. EXAMPLES 48 THROUGH 58 The following compounds within the scope of this invention were prepared using procedures sinilar to that described in Example 47 48 1, 4 Bis 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitro benzoyloxy butane nmr CDCl3 1.82 t, 4H , 4.40 t, 4H , 6.86 8.26 m, 12H ir CHCl3 1750 cm 1. 49 1, 6 Bis t5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitro benzoyloxy3hexane nmr CDCl3 1.01 2.20 n, 8H , 4.36 5, 4H , 6.98 8.24 m, 12H ir CHCl3 1740 cm 1. 50 1, 11 Bis 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitro benzoyloxy 3, 6, 9 trioxaundecane nmr CDCl3 3.62 s, 8H , 3.70 m, 4H , 4,48 m, 4H , 6.88 8.16 m, 12H ir CHCl3 1743 cm 1. 51 1, 2 Bis 3 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitro benzoyloxy ethane nmr CDCl3 4.00 s, 48 , 6.85 8.24 m, 12E , ir CHC13 1755 cm 1 52 1, 3 Bis 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitro benozoyloxy propane nmr CDC13 2,14 q, 2R , 4.40 t, 41 , 6.85 8.18 m, 12H ir CHCl3 1750 cm 53 1, 10 Bis 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitro benzoyloxy decane, nmr CDCl3 1.08 2.06 m, 16H , 4.31 t, 4H , 6.93 8.19 m, 12H ir CHCl3 1748 cm 1. 54 1, 5 Bis 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitro benzoyloxy 3 thiapentane nmr CDCl3 2.88 t,48 , 4.48 t, 4H , 6.96 8.18 m, 12H ir CHCl3 1730 cm 1. 33 N 2 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrothio bezoyloxy ethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitro benzamide, nmr CDCl3 3.40 m, 2H , 3.68 m, 2H , 6.70 s, 1H , 6.88 8.24 m, 121 ir CHCl3 3440, 1680, 1587 cm 1. 36 1, 2 Bis 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrothio benzoyloxy ethane, nmr CDCl3 3.40 s, 4H , 6.84 8.25 m, 12H ir CHCl3 1692 cm 1. 97 1, 4 Bis 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitro benzoyloxy 2 butene nmr CHCl3 4.99 d, 4H , 5.92 t, 2H , 6.95 8.22 m, 12H ir CHCl3 1740 cm 1. 38 1, 4 Bis 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitro benzoyloxy 2 butane nmr CDCl3 5.02 s, 4H , 6.93 8.26 m, 12H . EXAMPLE 59Preparation of 1, 8 Bis 5 2 Chloro 4 Trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 Nitrobenzyl 3, 5 Dioxaoctane A mixture of 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoic acid 10g, 0.028 mole , triethylene glycol 2.1g 0.014 mole and p toluenesulfonic acid 300 mg was stirred and heated at 1400c for 23 hrs.The reddish brown gum obtained was dissolved in 300 ml of ether, washed three times with water, dried over CaSO4 and concentrated to give 10.8g of the desired compound as a vellowish gum nmr CDCl3 3.68 5, 4z , 3.81 m, 2H , 4.50 m, 2E , 6.90 8.20 m, 6B ir CHCl3 1745 cm l EXAMPLE 60 Preparation of 2,4 bis 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoyloxy hexane Into a 200 ml of round bottom flask were charged 5 2 chloro 4 tr i fluoromethylphenoxy 2 ni trobenzo ic acid 8.0 g, 0.02 mole 2,5 dibromohexane 2.5 g, 0.01 mole KOH 4.4 g, 0.067 mole and DMF 66 9. The mixture was heated at 105 C. for 24 hrs., cooled and taken into 600 ml of ether.The ethereal solution was washed with sodium bicarbonate solution and then with water. After being dried over MgSO4 and concentrated, 6.8 9 of clear yellow gummy material was yield. The crude gum was column chromatographed through silica gel with 10 ethyl acetate hexane as eluent to afford 2.0 g of pure 2,4 bis 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 ni trobenxoyloxy hexane as white solid mp 102 105 nmr CDCl3 1.35 d, 6z , 1.74 m, 4B , 5.16 m, 2B , 6.88 8.27 m, 121 ir CBCL3 1738 Cm 1. EXAMPLE 61 Preparation of 4 Hydroxy 2 Butan 1 yl 5 2 Chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 Nitrobenzoate 5 2 chloro 4 trifluorcmethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoic acid chloride 7.6 9, 0.02 mole was added to a solution of 2 butene 1,4 diol 100 ml and triethylamine 10 ml . The mixture was heated to 70 C. and held for 1.5 hr. Then substantially all of the excess 2 butene 1,4 diol was distilled off. The residue was taken into 700 ml of ether, washed three times with water, dried over MgSO4 and concentrated to 8 g of crude 4 hydroxy 2 buten yl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate.The crude gummy material was chromatographed on silica gel using 254 ethyl acetate 75 hexane as eluent to afford 3.4 g of pure 4 hydroxy 2 buten 1 yl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate as a clear yellow gum nmr CDCl3 2.42 S, 1H , 4.28 d, 2H , 4.2 82 d, 2H , 5.46 6.30 m, 2H , 6.90 8.32 m, 6H ir CHCl3 3625, 1742 Cs 1. EXAMPLES 62 AND 63 The following compounds of this invention were prepared using procedures similar to that described in Example 61. 62 4 Hydroxy 2 buten 1 yl 5 2,4 dichlorophenoxy 2 nitro benzoate nmr CDC13 4.16 d, 2H , 4.92 d, 2a , 5.82 m, 2R , 6.98 8.44 m, 6H ir CHCl3 , 3612, 1746 Cm 1. 63 4 Hydroxy 2 butyn 1 yl 5 2,4 dichlorophenoxy 2 nitro benzoate nmr CDC13 J2.58 S, 11 , 4.30 t, 2E , 4.92 t, 2R , 6.86 8.23 a, 6z ir CHCl3 3624, 1756 Cml EXAMPlE 64 Preparation of 4 Hydroxy 2 Butyn 1 yl 5 2 Chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 Nitrobenzoate In a three necked 250 ml round bottomed flask, sodium hydride 3.2 g, 60 40 in oil, 0.08 mole was washed two times with hexane and pre dried THF 150 ml was added. 2 Butyn 1,4 diol 34 9, 0.4 mole then was added dropwise and the mixture was stirred for an hour at room temperature. C5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 nitro benzoyl chloride 15 9, 0.04 mole was added at a temperature below 35iC. The mixture then was heated at reflux for 1 br., cooled, and concentrated on rotovap. The mixture was taken up in 500 ml of ether. The ether solution was washed three times with water, dried over MgSO4 and concentrated to an oil. 6.5 g of the oil was chromatographed on silica gel, using 20 ethylacetate 80 hexane as eluent, to afford 3.2 g of pure 4 hydroxy 2butyn 1 yl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate nmr CDCl3 2.62 S, 11 , 4.27 S, 2B , 4.94 S, 2B , 6.98 8.26 m, 6H ir CBC13 3623, 1757 Cm EXAMPLE 65 Preparation of 8 2,4 dichlorophenoxyacetoxy 3,6 dioxaoctyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate A. 2,4 Dichlorophenoxyacetyl chloride A mixture of 2,4 dichlorophenoxyacetic acid 38 g and thionyl chloride 100 ml was held at reflux for 2 hours. The excess thionyl chloride was removed from the resulting clear solutions under reduced pressure to yield 43.7 g pale yellow oil ir CHCl3 1800 Cay nmr CDC13 495 S, 2a , 688 7.42 m, 3S . B. 8 Hydroxy 3,6 dioxaoctyl 2,4 dichlorophenoxyacetate 2,4 Dichlorophenoxyacetyl chloride 40.0 g, 0.18 mole was added dropwise. to a solution of.trimethylene glycol 32 g, 0.21 mole and triethylamine 21 g over 1 hour. As the chloride was added a salt precipitated out and stirring became difficult. Another 10 ml of trimethylene glycol and 50 ml of TBP was added. The mixture was held at reflux for 3 hours. After the solvent was stripped off, the residue was taken into 650 ml of ether, washed two times withNaHCO3 solution and two times with water.The ether solution afforded 40.6 g of brownish gum. A sample of 20 9 of the gum was run through 1 silica gel column with 10 to 60 ethyl acetate and 90 to 40 hexane as eluent to yield 5.3 g of pure 8 hydroxy 3,6 dioxaoctyl 2,4 dichlorophenoxyacetate as a yellowish oil, nmr CDC13 2.73 S, 1H , 3.34 a, 10H , 4.18 4.49 m, 2S , 4.73 S, 2z , 6.62 7.48 m, 3H ir CHCl3 1750, 1770, 3500, 3620 Cm 1. C. 2 Hydroxyethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethy1phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoyl chloride 4.0 g, 0.0105 mole was added portionwise to a solution of S hydroxy 3,6 dioxacctyl 2,4 dichlorophenoxyacetate 3.5 g, 0.103 mole , triethylamine 1.2 g, 0.103 mole and THF 40 ml over 5 minutes. The resulting solution was held at reflux for 3 hours. After the solvent was stripped off, the residue was taken into 400 ml of ether, washed two times with NaHCO3 solution and two times with water. The ether solution was then dried over MgS04 and concentrated to 5.9 g of brownish gum nmr CDC13 3.30 4.02 m, 8E , 4.25 4.62 a, 4E , 4.70 S, 2H , 6.65 8.24 m, 9H ir CHCl3 1750, 1770 Cm 1. EXAMPLE 66 Preparation of 2 2,4 Dichlorophenoxyacetoxy ethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate 2,4 Dichlorophenoxyacetyl chloride 5.3 9, 0.25 mole , was added portionwise to a solution of 2 hydroxyethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate 10 g, 0.25 mole and pyridine 70 ml . The resulting mixture was heated to 600C. for 1 hr., cooled and taken into 500 ml CE2C12. The methylene chloride solution was washed two times with water, dried and concentrated to 12.5 9 of gummy material.The crude gum was chromatographed through silica gel 3 10 ethyl acetate hexane to give 2.3 g of pure 2 2,4 dichlorophenoxyacetoxy ethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate nmr DMSO 4.20 4.76 m, 4E , 5.04 S, 2S , 6.96 8.42 m , 9H ir CHCl3 1755, 1770 Cm EXAMPLE 67 Preparation of 2 2,4 dichlorophenoxyacetoxy ethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate Methyloxalyl chloride 2.3 g, 0.0 188 mole was added dropwise to a solution of 2 hydroxyethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate 5 g, 0.123 mole , 20 ml of THF tetrahydrofuran and triethylamine 1.5 g, 0.127 mole in 10 minutes. The temperature of reaction solution rose from 23 C. to 40 C. The resulting light yellow solution with white precipitate was heated and held at reflux for 1 hour. The solvent was stripped off and the residue was taken into 400 ml of ether.The ethereal solution was washed two times with NaHCO3 solution and two times with water, dried over MgSO4 and concentrated to 5.7 g of the desired product as a clear yellow gum, nmr CDCl3 3.88 S, 3E , 4.60 S, 4E , 6.96 8.22 m, 6H ir CHCl3 1757, 1782 Cm 1. EXAMPLE 68 Preparation of 2 ethoxalyloxy ethayl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate Ethyloxalyl chloride 2.3 g, 0.0 188 mole was added dropwise to a solution of 2 hydroxyethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate 5 g, 0.123 mole , 20 ml of THF and triethylamine 1.5 g, 0.127 mole in 10 minutes. The temperature of reaction solution rose from 23 C. to 400C. The resulting light yellow solution with white precipitate was heated and held at reflux for 1 hour. The solvent was stripped off and the residue was taken into 400 ml of ether. The ethereal solution was washed two times with NaHCO3 solution and two times with water, dried over MgSO4 and concentrated to 5.7 g of the desired product as a clear yellow gum, CDCl3 1,37 t, 3H , 4.40 q, 2H , 4,63 S, 1H , 6.98 8.26 m, 6H , ir CHCl3 1750, 1770 Cm 1. EXAMPLE 69 Preparation of 2 2 methoxycarbonyl propionyloxy ethyl 3 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate Carbomethoxypropionyl chloride 2.8 g, 0.0186 mole was added dropwise to a solution of 2 hydroxyethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate 5 g, 0.0123 mole , THF 20 ml and triethylamine 1.5 9, 0.0127 mole over 30 minutes. The temperature rose from 23 to 45 C. and yellow solid precipitated out. The mixture was then heated to reflux for 0.5 hours, cooled and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was taken into 400 ml of ether and 200 ml of saturated NaHCO3 solution. After being washed two times with water, dried over MgSO4, 6.3 g of clear yellow oil was obtained.The oil is the desired benzoate nmr CDCl3 d 2.63 S, 48 , 3.68 S, 3B r 4.27 4.72 m, 48 , 6.96 8.20 m, 6B ir CHCl3 1745 Cm 1 broad . EXAMPLE 70 Preparation of 2 Levulinylox ethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate This compound was prepared using procedures similar to that described in Example 4 nmr CDCl3 2.20 S, 31 , 2.68 m, 4H , 4.42 m, 48 , 6.92 8.28 m, 8H ir CHC13 1733, 1746 Cm 1. The present application discloses several methods for preparing the present herbicides, among which is a novel process comprising 2,3 or 4 Steps. Examples 71 73 illustrate this novel process. EXAMPLE 71 Preparation of 1,2 Bis 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro meth ylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoyloxy3 ethane A. In a 250 ml glass flask, xylene 100 cc , 342 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy benzoic acid 131.6 g, 0.1 mole , ethylene glycol 6.2 g., 0.1 mole and conc. sulfuric acid 2 g. were heated at reflux 1300C. while azeotroping off about 2 cc of a water glycol mixture. The temperature was maintained for 30 hrs., after which the mixture was cooled to room temperature. The product mixture was then analyzed by thin layer chromatography 10 1 toluene ethyl acetate on silica and the following product separations were reported Rf 0.71 major spot product , 0.47 monoester , and 0.13 starting material .The reaction mixture was partitioned between ethyl acetate and a 5 sodium bicarbonate solution. The organic phase was reduced in volume by evaporation leaving 25.4 g of crude bis ester, which was subjected to column chromatography eluting with a 3 1 toluene CH2C12 solvent mixture. The product fractions averaged 20.6 g. 62.6 upon evaporation. Recrystallization from 5 1 hexane toluene yielded 16.2 g. of 1,2 bis 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy benzoyloxy ethane m.p. 98 C. nmr CDCl3 8.1 6.9 7, m, CH Ar , 4.7 4, s, CH2 ir neat 1726 cm 1 C O .B. A solution of 1,2 bis 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy benzoyloxy ethane 6.6 g., 0.01 mole in 15 cc of dichloroethane was treated with 10.4 g.of ca. 33 87 nitric sulfuric acis at 2 4 C. for 1.75 hours. Thin layer chlormatography 3 1 toluene CH2Cl2 on silica analysis indicated a product with Rf 0.39. Water 15 cc9 was added dropwise at 0 5 C. The layers were separated and the organic phase was washed sequentially with 5 sodium bicarbonate and water. The solvent was removed by rotary evaporation leaving 6.3 g. of 1,2 bis 2 chloro 4 trifluorom ethylphenoxy 2 ni troben zoyloxy7 ethane 84 nmr CDCl3 8.1 7.0 10, m, CH Ar , 4.6 4, s, CH2 ir neat 1750 C O , 1530 cm 1 NO2 . Other compounds having the general formula 1 where A is group IV are prepared by the above procedure A. and B. except for substitution of the ethylene glycol reactant in step A. Accordingly, 1,3 bis 05q2 chloro 4 tri fluoro m ethylphenoxy 2 ni tro benzoyloxy propane is prepared by substituting 1,3 propandiol for ethylene glycol in Step A 1,5 bis 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoyloxy 3 oxapentane is prepared by substituting 2 hydroxyethyl ether for ethylene glycol in Step A and 1,6 bis 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitro benzoyloxy3 3,4 dithiahexane is prepared by substituting 2 hydroxyethyl disulfide for ethylene glycol in Step A. EXAMPLE 72 Preparation of 2 Hydroxy ethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro m ethylphenoxy 2 nitroben zoate The reaction product of Example 1 B, 1,2 bis C5 2 chloro 4trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoyloxy ethane 6.1 g, 0.008 mole was mixed with ethylene glycol 10.1 g., 0.16 mole and manganese acetate tetrahydrate 0.4 g. and heated at 165 185 C. for 5 hours, and then cooled to room temperature. The product mixture was then subjected to thin layer chromatographic analysis 5 1 toluene ethyl acetate on a silica gel support which showed a single spot with Rf 0.2 identified as 2 hydroxyethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzo ate. This indicated that complete transacylation had taken place. The mixture was partitioned between water and toluene ethyl acetate and the volume of the organic phase was reduced by rotary evaporation. The resulting product was then subjected to high pressure liquid chroma tography purification employing a 5 1 toluene ethyl acetate solvent system. The product fractions 4.2 g, 6596 were identified by Thin Layer Chroma tography, nmr and ir. High pressure liquid chromatography analysis revealed a 88.3 purity with a trace of bis nitro ester and less than 1 5 C2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoic acid. The reaction of this example can be employed to make other nitro benzoates by proper substitution of 1,2 bis 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 ni trob enzoyloxyl methane. For example, 3 hydroxy propyl 5q2 chloro 4 trifluoro m ethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate is prepared by substituting 1,3 bis 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoyloxy propane 4 hydroxy 3 oxapentyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitro benzoate is prepared by substituting 1,5 bis 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoyloxy 3 oxapentane 5 hydroxy 3 thio pentyl 52 chloro 4 trifluoro m ethylphenoxy 2 nitroben zoate is prepared by substituting 1, 5 bis E52 chloroA trifluor0 m ethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoyloxy 3 thiapentane and 4 hydroxy 2 buten 1 yl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate is prepared by substituting 1,4 bis 0542 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoyloxy 2 bu tene for 1,2 bis 2 chloro 4 trifluoro m ethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoyloxy3 ethane in th is example. EXAMPLE 73 Preparation of 2 Chloroacetoxyethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro m ethylphenoxy 2 ni trobenzoate Chloroacetyl chloride 3 g, 0.027 mole was added dropwise to a stirred solution of 2 hydroxyethyl 5 2 chloro 4 tri fluoro m ethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate 8.1 g, 0.02 mole , triethylamine 2.5 g , and ether 150 ml . The heat given off during the reaction raised the temperature of the ether solution to reflux. After completion of addition, the mixture was kept at reflux for 10 min. The mixture then was allowed to cool to room temperature, poured into 200 ml of water, and 400 ml of ether was added. The ether extract was washed three times with water, dried CaSO4 and condentrated to 8.6 g of yellowish oil.The oil was column chromato graphed through silica gel with 20 ethyl acetate 80 hexane as eluent to afford 3.2 g of pure 2 chloroacetoxyethyl3s 2 chloro 4 trifluciomethyl phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate, as a pale yellow gummy material nmr CDCl3 J 4.16 S, 2H , 4.50 S, 4H , 6.98 8.18 m, 6H ir CHCl3 1752, 1765. Other carbonylated compounds can be prepared by the procedure of this example by proper substitution of chloroacetyl chloride. Thus, 2 methoxyacetoxy ethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitro benzoate is prepared by substituting methoxyacetyl chloride for chloro acetyl chloride 2 acetoxyethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy nitrobenzoate is prepared by substituting acetic anhydride for chloroacetyl chloride 24ropionyloxy ethyg542 chloro 4 trinuorom ethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate is prepared by substituting propionyl chloride for chloroacetyl chloride and 2 N,N dimethylcarbamyloxy ethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy 2 ni trobenzoate is prepared by substituting N ,N dim ethyl carbamyl chloride for chloroacetyl chloride. RBICIDAL TESTS Compounds from each of the A categories were tested for herbicidal activity and the results of these tests are reported as follows. EXAMPLE 74 Tests were made on two flats seeded with species of representative monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous plants. The test chemical was applied to one such flat immediately after it was seeded. The other flat contained plants on which the first true leaves had developed before the chemical was applied. The response was rated 12 to 21 days after treatment on a scale of O to 9 where O represents no injury and 9 represents complete kill. The results are shown in the following tables TABLE I Herbicidal Effectiveness of Post Emergence Application At 10 lbs. acre Phytotoxycity Rating Compound of Example MNGY MSTD FOX JPN CRB PIG 1 9 9 9 9 9 9 2 7 8 6 4 7 9 3 3 3 2 0 0 9 TABLE II Herbicidal Effectiveness of Pre Emergence Application At 10 lbs. acre Phytotoxycity Rating Compound of Example MNGY MSTD FOX JPN CRB PIG 1 9 9 9 9 9 9 2 7 9 9 8 9 9 3 0 7 1 1 0 9 Rated on scale of O to 9, from no visible effect on foliage to 100 destruction NMGY morning glory, MSTD mustard, FOX yellow foxtail, JPN Japanese millet, CRB crabgrass, PIG pigweed. EXAMPLE 75 Tests were made on two flats seeded with species of representative monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous plants.The test chemical was applied to one such flat immediately after it was seeded. The other flat contained plants on which the first true leaes had developed before the chemical was applied. The response was rated 12 to 21 days after treatment on a scale of O to 9 where 0 represents no injury and 9 represents complete kill. The results are shown in the following tables TABLE III Herbicidal Effecgtiveness of Post Emergence Application At 10 lbs. acre Phytotoxicity Rating Compound of Ex. No. MNGY MST FOX JPM CRB PIG 4 9 9 6 2 5 9 5 9 9 9 9 9 9 6 9 9 9 8 8 9 7 9 9 9 7 9 9 8 9 9 8 6 7 9 9 9 9 9 5 3 6 9 10 9 9 9 6 9 9 11 7 9 8 7 9 9 12 6 7 6 5 4 9 13 5 6 3 3 2 9 14 9 9 4 2 5 9 15 9 9 9 8 9 9 16 7 8 8 5 7 9 17 6 9 7 4 8 9 19 5N 7N 8N 6N 5N 19 9 9 8S 8S 9 9 20 9 9 9 9 9 9 21 9 9 9 9 9 9 22 6S 8S 7S 5 7S 9 23 5S 4S 2 0 1 9 24 5S 7S 8S 4 8S 9 Rated on scale of 0 to 9, from no visible effect on foliage to 100 destruction with N Necrosis NMGY morningg glory, MSTD mustard, FOX yellow foxtail, JPN Japanese millet, CRB crabgrass, PIG pigweed S moderate stunting, S severe stunting. application rate 1.2 lbs. acre TABLE III CONT D Herbicidal Effectiveness of Post Emergence Application At 10 lbs. acre Phytotoxicity Rating Compound of Ex. No. MNGY MSTD FOX JPN CRB PIG 25 7S 8S 6S 3 7S 8S 26 9 9 9 9 9 9 27 9 9 9 7 8 9 28 9 9 9 5 8 9 29 9 9 9 8 9 9 30 9 9 9 8 9 9 31 9 9 9 5 7 9 32 8 9 8 4 5 9 33 5 9 1 1 9 9 34 9 9 9 9 9 9 35 6 7 8 2 3 9 36 gS 45 1 1 1 8 37 8S 8S 7S 0 6S 9 38 39 8 9 4 55 35 9 40 5 9 1 1 9 9 41 5 1 1 1 2 5 42 5 6 8 5 9 9 43 8 9 9 9 9 9 Rated on scale of O to 9, from no visible effect on foliage to 100 destruction with MNGY morning glory, MSTD mustard, FOX yellow foxtail, JPN Japanese millet, CRB crabgrass, PIG pigweed S moderate stunting, S severe stunting. TABLE IV Herbicidal Effectiveness of Pre Emergence Application At 10 lbs. acre Phytotoxicity Rating Compound of Ex. No. MNGY MSTD FOX JPN CRB PIG 4 9 9 9 9 9 9 5 9 9 9 9 9 9 6 9 9 9 8 9 9 7 9 9 9 9 9 9 8 8 9 7 5 9 9 9 9 9 6 5 9 9 10 9 9 9 9 9 9 11 9 9 9 8 9 9 12 7 9 8 2 8 9 13 5 9 9 7 8 9 9 9 7S 7S 9 9 15 9 9 9 7 9 9 16 9 9 9 6 9 9 17 7 9 9 6 9 9 18 4F 75 ,F 8 3C 8 9 19 9 9 9 9 9 9 20 9 9 9 9 9 9 21 9 9 9 9 9 9 22 75 9 8S 5 9 9 23 9 9 4S,F 3 4S 9 24 9 9 8S 9 9 9 Rated on scale of O to 9, from no visible effect on foliage to 100 desctruction with S moderate stunting, S severe stunting, C chlorosis, F formative MNGY morning glory, MSTD mustard, FOX yellow foxtail, JPN Japanese millet, CRB crabgrass, PIG pigweed. application rate 1.2 lbs. acre application rate 2.0 lbs. acre TABLE IV CONT D Herbicidal Effectiveness of Pre Emergence Application At 10 lbs. acre Phvtotoxicity RatingCompound of Ex. No. MNGY MSTD FOX JPN CRB PIG 25 9 9 9 6S 9 9 26 9 9 9 9 9 9 27 9 9 9 9 9 9 28 9 9 9 9 9 9 29 9 9 9 8 9 9 30 9 9 9 9 9 9 31 5 9 8 6 9 9 32 9 9 6 8 9 9 33 5 9 gS 1 8S 9 34 9 7 .9 9 9 9 35 8 7 7 5 2 9 36 6S 7S 4S 3S 5S 37 9 9 9 9 9 9 38 39 8 9 7S,F 8 9 9 40 5 9 3S 1 8S 9 41 5 8S gS 5 75 9 42 9 9 9 9 9 9 43 9 9 9 9 9 9 Rated on scale of U to 9, from no visible effect on foliage to 100 destruction with S moderate stunting. S severe stunting, C chlorosis, F formative MNGY morning glory, MSTD mustard, FOX r yellow foxtail, JPN Japanese millet, CRB crabgrass, PIG pigweed. EXAMPLE 76 Tests were made on two flats seeded with species of representative monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous plants. The test chemical was applied to one such flat Inunediately after it was seeded. The other flat contained plants on which the first true leaves had developed before the chemical was applied. The response was rated 12 to 21 days after treatment on a scale of O to 9 where O represents no injury and 9 represents complete kill. The results are shown in the following tables TABLE V Herbicidal Effectiveness of Pre Emergence Application At 10 lbs. acre Compound of Ex. No. MNGY MSTD FOX JPN CRB PIG 44 9 9 9 9 9 9 45 9 9 8 7 9 9 TABLE VI Eerbicidal Effectiveness of Post Emergence Application At 10 lbs. acre Phvtotoxicitv Rating Compound of Ex. No. MNGY MSTD FOX JPN CRB PIG 44 7 9 7 5F 8 9 45 9 9 9 8 9 9 Rated on scale of O to 9, from no visible effect on foliage to 100 destruction, with P formative MNGY . morning glory, MSTD mustard, FOX yellow foxtail, JPN Japanese millet, CRB crabgrass, PIG pigweed. EXAMPLE 77 Tests were made on two flats seeded with species of representative monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous plants. The test chemical was applied to one such flat immediately after it was seeded. The other flat contained plants on which the first true leaves had developed before the chemical was applied. The response was rated 12 to 21 days after treatment on a scale ofO to 9 where 0 represents no injury and 9 represents complete kill. The results are shown in the following tables TABLE VII Herbicidal Effectiveness of Post Emergence Application at 10 lbs. acre Phytotoxicity Rating Compound of Example MNGY MSTD FOX JPN CRB PIG 46 5 8 3 2 4 7 47 2 4 4 o o 9 48 7 9 8 6 7 9 49 8 9 9 5 8 9 50 7 9 9 5 9 9 51 4 6 7 4 5 9 52 9 9 5 1 9 9 53 4 5 2 1 2 9 54 2 4 4 0 0 9 55 3 4 1 0 3 5 56 2F 4 1 1 1 9 57 0 0 0 0 0 0 58 2 6E 1 2 0 6 59 . 9 9 9 9 9 9 60 2 2 2 2 2 5 F formative E epinasty MNGY morning glory, MSTD mustard, FOX yellow foxtail, JPN Japanese millet, CRB crabgrass, PIG pigweed. Rated on scale of O to 9 as in Table VI. TABLE VIII Herbicidal Effectiveness of Pre Emergence Application at 10 lbs. acre Phytotoxicity Rating Compound of Example MNGY MSTD FOX JPN CRB PIG 46 5 9 6 3 4 5 47 2 7 5 6 9 9 48 9 9 7 6 9 9 49 9 9 5 2 0 0 50 9 9 7 6 9 9 51 3 9 7 5 8 9 52 5 9 5S,F 3 9 9 53 0 7S 5F 3F 7S 9 54 2 7 5 6 9 9 55 5 9 2 1 7S g 56 1 8S 2 2 65 9 57 1 0 0 0 0 58 0 5S 2E 3F 6S 9 59 9 9 9 9 9 9 60 2 4 1 2 5S ,F g Rated on scale of 0 to 9, from no visible effect on foliage to 100 destruction with MNGY morning glory, MSTD mustard, FOX yellow foxtail, JPN Japanese millet, CRB crabgrass, PIG pigweed F formative, S moderate stunting and S severe stunting. EXAMPLE 78 Tests were made on two flats seeded with species of representative monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous plants. The test chemical was applied to one such flat immediately after it was seeded. The other flat contained plants on which the first true leaves had developed before the chemical was applied. The response was rated 12 to 21 days after treatment on a scale of O to.9 where O represents no injury and 9 represents complete kill. Herbicidal Effectiveness of Pre Emergence Application At 10 lbs. acre Phytotoxicity Rating Compound ofEx. No. MNGY MSTD FOX JPN CRB PIG 61 9 9 7 4 5 9 62 9 9 9 5 9 9 63 8 9 7 4 8 9 64 6 9 9 5 9 9 TABLE x Eerbicidal Effectiveness of Post Emergence Application At 10 lbs. acre Phytotoxicity Rating Compound ofEx. No. MNGY MSTD FOX JPN CRB PIG 61 9 9 9 4 9 9 62 9 9 8 8 9 9 63 7 8 6 5 6 9 64 9 9 9 9 9 9 Rated on scale of O to 9, from no visible effect on foliage to 1008 destruction MNGY w morning glory, .STD . mustard, FOX yellow foxtail, JPN Japanese millet, C2B s crabgrass, PIG X pigweed. EXAMPLE 79 The following tests were carried out as described in Example 78. TABLE XI Herbicidal Effectiveness of Post Emergence Application at 10 lbs. acreCompound of Phytotoxicity Rating Example No. MNGY MSTD FOX JPN CRB PIG 65 7S ,F 7S ,F 3 5S,F 65 9 66 4F ,S 5E,S 5E,S 7N 6N,S 4N 8N 67 9 9 9 8S 9 9 68 9 9 9 8 8 9 69 9 9 9 8S 9 9 70 9 9 9 9 9 9 TABLE XII Herbicidal Effectiveness of Pre Emergence Application at 10 lbs. acre Compound of Phytotoxicity Rating Example No.MNGY MSTD FOX JPN CRB PIG 65 9 8S 1 2 1 9 66 7E,N g 9 9 9 9 67 9 9 9 9 9 3 68 9 9 7 9 9 9 69 9 9 9 9 9 9 70 9 9 9 9 9 9 Rated on scale of O to 9, from no visible effect on foliage to 100 destruction with S moderate stunting, S severe stunting, F formative, E epinasty, N Necrosis MNGY morning glory, MSTD mustard, FOX yellow foxtail, JPN Japanese millet, CRB crabgrass, PIG pigweed. In summary, the compounds of this invention show high pre and post emergence herbicidal activity against indicator weeds, and are particularly effective against broadleaf weeds, such as morning glory. In addition to such effective herbicidal activity, they exhibit an unusual selectivity against important agromonic crops, such as cotton, rice, soybean, corn, wheat. and sorghum. while the invention has been described with particular reference to certain embodiments thereof, it will be understood that certain modif ications and changes may be made which are swithin the skill of the art. Therefore it is intended to be bound only by the appended claims.