# Heat transport device suitable for use in a solar collector.

## Abstract
A heat transport device 1 comprising a sealed and evacuated tube 2 which contains water which in the operation of the device 1 evaporates in a heated section of the tube and condenses in a cooled section, the condensed water collecting at the bottom of the tube 2 in the form of a liquid column, and a fine meshed gauze 11 being attached to the inner surface of the tube 2 wall at the area of the liquid level 10 in the bottom of the tube when the device is not in operation.

## Claims
1. A heat transport device which is suitably for use in a solar collector and which comprises a sealed and evacuated tube which contains water as a heat transport medium which, during operation of the device, evaporates in a heated section of the tube and condenses in a cooled section of the tube, the cooled section of the tube being situated at a higher level than the heated section during operation so that the condensed water collects at the bottan of the tube, char2C terized in that at the area of the liquid level in the bottom of the tube when the device is not in operation, a finemeshed gauze is attached to the inner surface of the tube wall so as to extend above and below said liquid level. 2. A heat transport device as claimed in Claim 1, characterized in that the gauze is made of a material which does not react with water, for exaS.plo, phcsphor bronze. 3. A heat transport device as claimed in Claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the gauze is wettable by water. 4. A heat transport device as claimed in Claim 3, characterized in that the gauze is oxidized in air.

## Description
Heat transport device suitable for use in a solar collector The invention relates to a heat transport device which is suitable for use in a solar collector and which comprises a sealed and evacuated tube which contains water as a heat transport medium which, during operation of the device evaporates in a heated section of the tube and condenses in a cooled section of the tube, the cooled section of the tube being situated at a higher level than the heated section during operation so that the condensed water collects at the bottom of the tube. Heat transport devices of the kind set forth are generally known and are sanetirnes referred to as heat pipes . An example of the use of such a device in a solar collector is published in Netherlands Patent Application 7905057 PHN7 9516 . In this known solar collector an absorber which receives heat from incident solar radiation is suitably thermally conductively connected to the section of the heat transport device which is heated when the device is in operation. When the absorber is not exposed to radiation and the heat transport device is therefore cold, the water contained therein lies at the bottom of the heat pipe in the liquid phase. In a practical emhodiment, the water at the bottom of the pipe forms a column of fram 10 to 20 cm in length. The cross sectional area of the pipe therein amounts to 33 mm2. When the absorber receives heat fram incident solar radiation, the upper section of the absorber and the heat pipe is heated much more rapidly than the section which. contains the condensed water. This is due to th high specific heat of the water. This starting effect of the heat pipe occurs notably when the condenser section is cold which means a very low pressure in the heat pipe , and often the temperature of the 0 absorber has risen far beyond 100 C before the water starts to boil 0 tudbulently at 70 to 80 C due to the delay in boiling. Due to the re occurrence of this delay at a later stage, the operation of the heat pipe may became intermittent, which is detrimental to the overall efficiency of the device. It is an object of the invention to provide a heat transport device of the kind set forth which exhibits substantially no delay in boiling when it is started. In order to achieve this object, the heat transport device in accordance with the invention is characterized in that at the area of the liquid level in the bottom of the tube when the device is not in operation, a fine meshed gauze is attached to the inner surface of the tube wall so as to extend above and below said liquid level. The gauze is preferably made of a material which does not react with water, for example, phosphor bronze. The settability of the gauze by water should be high this is preferably achieved by oxidation of the gauze in air. In order to achieve a suitable capillary effect the gauze should be very fine, with mesh size which is preferably of the order of 250 mesh. It has been found that the provision of a gauze in the tube in the described manner substantially eliminates the delay in boiling this is prokSbly due to the increased evaporating surface area in the heat pipe provided by the gauze, and the creation of conditions in which vapour bubbles are readily formed. The starting of the heat pipe is thus substantially facilitated and beyond 40 to 50 C no intermittent operation of the heat pipe occurs. An emDcdir,tent of the invention will be described in detail hereinafter with reference to the drawings, in which Figures 1 and 2 show, by way of example, a longitudinal sectional view and a transverse sectional view of a solar collector ccngrising a heat transport device according to an embodiment of the invention. The heat transport device is denoted by the reference numeral 1 in Figure 1. The device 1 mainly consists of a metal tube 2 which contains water as the heat transport medium 3. A section 4 of the tube 2 is in suitable thermally conductive contact with an absorber plate 5 which takes up heat when solar radiation is incident thereon. The side of the absorber plate 5 which faces the sun may comprise a selective absorption layer. The absorber 5 and the section 4 of the tube 2 are enclosed in a transparent envelope 6. The tube 2 passes through one end wall 7 of the cylindrical wele 6 znd e .ternallv of the envelope has a section 8 which is arranged to exchange heat with a medium to be heated in a duct system 9. Condensed water is present at the bottom of the tube 2 in the form of a liquid column 3. The liquid level in the bottom of the tube when the device is not in operation is denoted by the reference numeral 10. On the inner surface of the wall of the tube 2 at the area of the liquid level 10 is arranged a fine meshed phosphor bronze gauze 11 which has been oxidized in air before it is fitted in the tube, so that the desired wettability of the gauze by water is ensured. The gauze is of tubular form and extends above and below the liquid level 10. When the sun heats the absorber 5 by radiation so that the temperature of the section 4 of the tube also increases, the water in the tube will start to boil without the occurrence of a substantial delay in boiling or of intermittent turbulent boiling when the section 4 has reached a temperature which corresponds to the boiling temperature of the water in the tube. The simple, inexpensive gauze at the area of the liquid level 10 thus offers an excellent solution to the problem of delay in boiling described earlier herein.