# Process for xanthan gum production.

## Abstract
Xanthan gum is produced by an improved process of fermenting an assimilable carbon source by an organism of the genus Xanthomonas comprising limiting the trace elements Fe, Mn, Zn, Cu, Co and B as follows

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for production of xanthan gum by continuous aerobic fermentation of an assimilable carbon source by an organism of the genus xanthomonas in a nutrient medium the improvement which comprises limiting the trace elements Fe, Mn, Zn, Cu, Co, and B as follows ppm Fe 0.1 10 Mn 0.01 1 Zn 0.01 1 Cu 0.001 1 Co 0.001 1 B 0.0005 1 with the proviso that the ratio Re Mn ranges from 40 1 to 2 1. 2. The process of claim 1 wherein the trace elements Fe, Mn, Zn, Cu,Co, and B are limited as follows ppm Fe 0.5 5 Mn 0.1 1 Zn 0.1 0.5 Cu 0.01 0.1 Co 0.01 0.1 B 0.005 0.05 3. The process of claim 1 wherein the nutrient medium is prepared from demineralized water, the carbon source is a carbohydrate, and the medium comprises nitrogen from a complex, naturally occurring mixture. 4. The process of claim 1 wherein the medium further comprises water soluble inorganic salts of phosphorus, magnesium, calcium, potassium, and sulphur. 5. The process of claim 1 wherein the dilution rate is 0.01 0.12 hr. 6. The process of claim 5 wherein the dilution rate is 0.02 0.08 hr and the fermentation temperature is 25 350C. 7. The process of claim 6 wherein the dilution rate is 0.04 0.6 hr and the fermentation temperature is 25 320C. 8. The process of claim 1 comprising the further step of heating the fermented medium to 100 300C for 1 15 minutes prior to recovery of the xanthan gum. 9. The process of claim 8 wherein the fermented medium is heated to 120 1250C for 2 minutes. 10. The process of claim 1, wherein the organism is X.campestris. 11. The process of claim 10, wherein the organism has the identifying characteristics of X.campestris ATCC 13951.

## Description
PROCESS FOR XANTHAN GUM PRO NCTION The present invention relates to the production of xanthan gum. Xanthan gum is a polysaccharide elaborated by many species of the genus Xanthamonas. The gum has interesting rheological properties and is used particularly as a thickener in oil drilling and in foodstuffs. Industrial production of xanthan gum is generally by a batch process, in which a culture of a polysaccharide producing strain of Xanthamonas is inoculated into a nutrient medium in a fermentation vessel and allowed to ferment for up to several days. Thereafter the gum is usually isolated from the fermented broth by addition of an organic solvent to precipitate the gum. An alternative to batch production is continuous production, in which after inoculation and initial growth of the bacterium, fresh nutrient medium is continuously added to the fermentation vessel and a corresponding amount of fermented broth is continuously withdrawn. The advantages of continuous xanthan gum production, especially regular production, ease of control and smaller fermentation vessel, have been recognized for many years. However, for various reasons, particularly practical difficulties in maintaining extended, productive fermentation, batch production still predominates. Much of the research on xanthan gum production has been carried out in the USA, particularly at the Northern RegionalResearch Laboratory of the US Department of Agriculture at Peoria,Illinois, USA. Proceeding from the pioneering work on the strainNRRL 8 1459 of Xanthomonas campestris, R W Silman and P Rogovin of the Peoria Laboratory demonstrated that continuous fermentation was feasible Biotechnology and Bioengineering, 12, 75 1970 .In a later article ibid, 14, 23 1972 they reported further study on the possibilities for continuous fermentation, with a maximum xanthan production rate of 0.84 g h kg. This figure is relatively low, and moreover the resultant fermentation broth contained only 0.6S xanthan and had a viscosity of only 800 cp Table III on page 27 . Higher xanthan contents and higher viscosity products are reported, but at lower xanthan production rates. More generally, there are numerous continuous processes for xanthan production which are described in the patent and other literature. Examples are contained for instance in USPatents No. 3,328,262 and No. 3,485,719, as well as in UK PatentSpecification No. 1,512,536 and 2,008,138. In practice, each of the known processes gives a product with different characteristics, reflecting variations in the nature of the xanthan polysaccharide. We have been studying the production of xanthan gum by continuous erecedures, with a view to obtaining with high productivity a product having good rheology and being acceptable for use in foods intended for human consumption. According to the present invention, we provide a continuous process for the production of a polysaccharide, xanthan gum, by continuously culturing a polysaccharide producing strain of bacterium of the genus Xanthamonas in a fermentation medium, wherein the fermentation medium contains certain trace elements at controlled, low levels. It is by the use of the controlled trace elements at low levels that we find it possible to improve the purity and other characteristics of a xanthan gum product obtained at relatively high productivity. More specifically, in accordance with the invention, we use for the continuous cultivation a fermentation medium which contains low levels of iron, manganese, zinc, copper, cobalt and boron. Considered generally, the level of the trace elements had not previously been identified as a possible factor for optimising xanthan gun production. Surprisingly, these elements appear to play a key role in continuous processes. Silman and Rogovin make no mention of the trace elements in their papers to which reference has been made above. Similarly the trace elements are not considered in the US Patent No. 3,485,719. In the US Patent No. 3,328,262 it is simply indicated that suitable trace elements will normally be used , without specifying their nature or suitable levels. The UK Patent No 1,512,536 says that the medium should contain trace elements, though theExamples do not give much detail on this point and simply say that the medium contained traces of various metals such as zinc, copper, cobalt, iron, manganese and molybdenum . Finally, in the literature mentioned on continuous fermentation, theUK Patent Specification No 2003138 identifies in Example 1 a suitable trace element mixture. In the art of batch production, there is UK Patent No.1,531,970 which describes the use of controlled levels of manganese and iron, as well as of chelated calcium. The manganese level is set at about 0.75 to 60 ppm and the iron level at about 0.25 to 20 ppm. Nothing is said about the level of zinc. In practice, the manganese is employed in the examples at 9.75 ppm and the iron at about 2 ppm. The use of these levels in UK 1531970 is one of several factors in a batch process designed for producing a fermented broth which is suitable for direct use in oil recovery.The aim is a broth substantially free of insoluble matter having a particle size above 3 microns. In contrast, the present invention is a continuous process wherein the level of manganese is less than that of iron. For preference, the fermentation medium for a continuous process of the invention contains the following levels of the elements specified in Table 1 ppm in this specification being parts by weight of the element per million parts by volume of the medium . Table 1 Trace Element Preferred Level Most Preferred ppm Level ppm Fe 0.1 to 10 0.5 to 5 Mn 0.01 to 1 0.1 to 1 Zn 0.01 to 1 0.1 to 0.5 Cu 0.001 to 1 0.01 to 0.1 Co 0.001 to 1 0.01 to 0.1 B 0.0005 to 1 0.005 to 0.05 More generally, the present invention employs iron at less than 10 ppm, manganese at less than 1 ppm, with the iron manganese ppm ratio preferably being from 40 1 to 2 1. In preparing a fermentation medium for use in the present process, the various trace elements are suitably added as watersoluble compounds, especially inorganic salts such as FeCl2.6H20 or FeS04.7H20 for iron MnCl2.6H20 or MnS04.4H20 for manganese ZnS04.7H20 for zinc CuCl2.2H20 or CuSO4.5H20 for copper CoCl2.6H20 or CoS04.7H20 for cobalt and H3B03 for boron. In adding the trace elements, it is necessary to make due allowance for the amounts present in the other components.It is greatly preferred to employ demineralized water prepared for example by passing tap water through an ion exchanger.Equally, it is greatly preferred to analyse the medium after it has been made up, in order to confirm that the controlled, low levels of trace elements have not been exceeded. Apart from the trace elements for which levels have already been specified, the fermentation medium will contain sources of assimilable carbon and of assimilable nitrogen, together with sources of other elements such as one or more of phosphorus magnesium, calcium, potassium and sulphur. The ingredients can be added using conventional sources at conventional levels. The carbon source can be a sugar or other carbohydrate or a complex naturally occurring source, with glucose being preferred, particularly in an amount of 30 to 70 g l. The nitrogen can be added as an ammonium salt or as a nitrate, but advantageously at least some of the nitrogen is supplied from a complex, naturally occurring mixture, for instance yeast extract. Yeast extract, even at relatively low levels of 0.05 to 0.5 g l, can usefully contribute growth factors, vitamins, amino acids and other, unidentified complex organic compounds. The other elements such as phosphorus, sulphur and further metals can be added as water soluble inorganic salts. With a continuous process it necessarily follows that some requirement of the bacterium is a limiting factor. It is not essential to know the identity of the limiting factor, but on the other hand there are normally constraints on reformulating a fermentation medium if the limiting factor is unknown. For preference, the limiting factor is known and is nitrogen or sulphur. The medium preferably has a pH of 6 to 8, and will usually be at about pH 7. Control of pH can be achieved by metered addition of acid or alkali as required to maintain the desired value. In proceeding with a continuous process embodying the present invention, it is necessary first to have an inoculum of the polysaccharide producing bacterium. Procedures for producing such inocula are well documented in the literature, and it is unnecessary to give details of the conventional procedures in this specification. For preference, the bacterium is of the species X. campestris, and furthermore the bacterium is preferably adapted to the fermentation medium as part of the growing up procedure. Thus, a culture of the productive strain is successively grown in stages using larger volumes of medium, with at least the final stage of inoculum production employing substantially the same medium as in the polysaccharide producing strain. After inoculation of fermentation medium and growing up to a satisfactory cell mass and product concentration, the present process is set in operation by adding fresh medium and drawing off fermented medium. The dilution rate is preferably 0.01 to 0.12 h l, more preferably 0.02 to 0.08 h 1, say 0.04 to 0.06 h l. The fermentation temperature is suitably 25 to 350C, for instance 29 to 320C, but other temperatures can be used. Oxygen has to be supplied during the fermentation because the Xanthomonas bacteria are strict aerobes. For preference the air flow and mixing conditions are preferably adjusted to keep the dissolved oxygen tension at above the levels which cause oxygen limitation and below the levels which cause oxygen toxicity. The polysaccharide in the medium withdrawn from the fermentation vessel can be further processed, if desired, for example in order to give a solid product. For a food grade material, it is preferred first to heat the fermented medium to say 100 to 130 C for 1 to 15 minutes, especially 120 to 125 for about 2 minutes, and thereafter to add an organic solvent such as isopropanol to precipitate the xanthan gum which may be filtered off or otherwise separated. By adoption of the present process, it is possible to obtain with high productivity a xanthan gum of high viscosity and purity. The present invention is illustrated by the following non limiting examples. For the Examples, and the accompanyingComparative Examples, the following standard procedures were employed Product concentration determination TPM An aliquot of culture about 20g was accurately weighed into a suitable glass vessel. Polymer, cells and some salts were precipitated with 2 volumes of isopropanol. The precipitate was separated by filtration after 10 minutes, through a pre weighed glass fibre filter circle. The papers were dried to constant weight either in a vacuum oven at 45 C for 24 hours or under an infra red lamp, then reweighed to give a total precipitate matter TPM determination.A larger aliquot was precipitated at steady state.Polysaccharide Analyses Samples of TPM or cell free xanthan CFX were milled to ensure homogeneity and analysed for moisture content, sulphated ash, total mitrogen, pyruvate and acetyl.Rheology Measurements The rheology of culture broths were measured routinely throughout fermentation. Approximately 0.1 g of milled polymer was placed in a pre weighed glass vial including the cap . The polymer was dried under vacuum, over phosphorous pentoxide, overnight.The vial was capped under an atmosphere of dry nitrogen and reweighed. A 1 solution was prepared from the dried polymer, in distilled water. Rheology K and n values was measured using a Wells Brookfield cone and plate viscometer Model HBT at 25 C. The turbidity of diluted culture broths 1 40 by volume dilution assessed as concentration.Examples 1 to 5 and Comparative Examples 1 to 4 A continuous culture apparatus was designed to facilitate adequate mixing of a xanthan containing broth. Two impellers with 6 curved blades 13 cm diameter were fitted to a 5 litre top stirred fermenter. The impellers were positioned so that the blades were backswept from the direction of rotation and 10 cm apart bottom impeller at lowest point on the impeller shaft . As the impeller diameter was almost as great as the glass body of the fermenter, temperature was controlled using a serpent of stainless steel tubing 6 mm o.d. and 4 mm i.d. fitted against the inside of the glass body and connected to a Temperature Controller.The temperaturemonitoring probe was introduced through the base plate, The temperature was maintained at about 300C. pH was monitored using an electrode fitted in.a side arm of the fermenter body and maintained at about 7.0 by automatic addition of 2M NaOH. Air was introducted through the centre of the base plate directly underneath the bottom impeller. A weir was introduced through the ton plate and the lenqth adjusted to give a working volume of about 2 litre. For continuous operation, medium was continuously added and effluent continuously removed using peristaltic pumps. A shake flask containing 100 ml of a 24h culture of a laboratory stock of X. campestris ATCC 13951 in MYGP medium malt extract, 3 g 1 yeast extract 3 g 1 glucose, 10 g gl 1 peptone, 5 gl 1 agar, 20 g 1 was used to inoculate about 2 litre of stirred medium. The composition of each medium is listed in Table 2. Table 2 EMI13.1 SEP Example SEP Comparative SEP Example tb Component SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 4 tb Acetic SEP acid SEP g 1 SEP 0.45 SEP 0.45 SEP 0.,45 SEP 0.45 SEP 0.45 SEP 0.45 SEP SEP SEP SEP Acetic SEP acid SEP g 1 tb Citric SEP acid SEP 1.0 SEP 1.0 SEP 1.0 SEP 1.25 SEP 1.0 SEP 1.0 SEP 1.0 SEP 1.0 SEP 1.0 SEP Citric SEP acid tb Mg OH 2 SEP 0.0775 SEP 0.07 SEP 0.07 SEP 0.0848 SEP 0.0775 SEP 0.1 SEP 0.048 SEP 0.034 SEP 0.0775 SEP Mg OH 2 tb Ca OH 2 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP SEP 0.025 SEP 0.05 SEP Ca OH 2 tb MgSO4.7H2O SEP 0.058 SEP 0.086 SEP 0.087 SEP 0.027 SEP 0.058 SEP SEP SEP 0.062 SEP 0.058 SEP MgSO4.7H2O tb K2HPO4 SEP 1.0 SEP 1.0 SEP 1.0 SEP 1.0 SEP 1.0 SEP 1.0 SEP 0.782 SEP 0.5 SEP 1.0 SEP K2HPO4 tb NH4 2HPO4 SEP 2.62 SEP 2.38 SEP 2.38 SEP 2.36 SEP 3.0 SEP 3.75 SEP 3.02 SEP 3.77 SEP 3.77 SEP NH4 2HPO4 tb Yeast SEP Extract SEP SEP SEP 0.2 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 0.2 SEP SEP Y.E. tb Glucose SEP Glucose SEP g 1 tb Dexyme SEP 08 SEP 62 SEP 62 SEP 60 SEP 55 SEP 59 SEP SEP SEP 49 SEP 62 SEP Dexyme SEP 081 tb Meritose SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 44 SEP 38.5 SEP SEP SEP Meritose tb mg 1 SEP mg 1 tb MnSO4.4H2O SEP 0.55 SEP 1.1 SEP 1.1 SEP 1.1 SEP 1.1 SEP 22 SEP SEP SEP 1.1 SEP MnSO4.4H2O tb ZnSo4.7H2O SEP 0.71 SEP 1.42 SEP 0.71 SEP 1.42 SEP 1.42 SEP 28.4 SEP SEP SEP SEP ZnSO4.7H2O tb CuSO4.5H2O SEP 1.125 SEP 0.25 SEP 0.25 SEP 0.25 SEP 0.25 SEP 5.0 SEP SEP SEP 0.25 SEP CuSO4.5H2O tb CoSO4.7H2O SEP 0.14 SEP 0.28 SEP 0.28 SEP 0.28 SEP 0.28 SEP 5.66 SEP SEP SEP 0.28 SEP CuSO4.7H2O tb H3BO4 SEP 0.03 SEP 0.06 SEP 0.06 SEP 0.06 SEP 0.06 SEP 1.2 SEP 0.553 SEP SEP 0.06 SEP H3BO4 tb FeSO4.7H2O SEP 17.8 SEP 3.56 SEP 3.56 SEP 35.6 SEP 35.6 SEP 89 SEP 0.0143 SEP SEP 35.6 SEP FeSO4.7H2O tb The glucose syrup Dexyme 081 was selected because of its purity, being low in trace elements. In ppm, the syrup contained the following Zn, less than 0.01 Cu, less than 0.2 Mn, less than 0.04 Co, less than 0.08 Fe, less than 0.18. The yeast extract was a special low salts yeast extract, and contained in ppm the following Zn, 60 Cu, 10 Mn, 15 Co, less than 5, Fe, 100. The other reagents were of analytical grade. After batch growth of 24 h, the continuous addition of defined medium was commenced. The dilution rate was about 0.04 h 1. A steady state sample was harvested only after at least 3 days of growth with constant measurements. The gum in the sample was precipitated by addition of excess isopropyl and assessed before NHT or after HT a heat treatment at 125 C for 2 minutes. The fermentation conditions and product analyses are given in Table 3. Table 3EXAMPLE EMI15.1 CONDITIONS SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 5 tb Limitation SEP concentration SEP S 0.012g 1 SEP S 0.012g 1 SEP S 0.012g 1 SEP S 0.009g 1 SEP S 0,012g 1 tb Product SEP concentration SEP g 1 SEP 26.8 SEP 32 SEP 27.6 SEP 22.7 SEP 26.9 tb Cell SEP concentration SEP E540 SEP units SEP 4.6 SEP 6.8 SEP 5.34 SEP 3.6 SEP 4.8 tb Dry SEP cell SEP wt, SEP g 1 SEP 3 SEP 3.8 SEP 3.5 SEP SEP 3.6 tb Broth SEP rheology SEP K n cpt SEP 35124 SEP .20 SEP 39764 .19 SEP 28796 SEP .22 SEP 41200 SEP 37007 SEP .19 tb g SEP O2 m.moles SEP g.h 1 SEP 3.4 SEP 3.8 SEP 4.5 SEP 7.3 SEP 6.33 tb Polymer SEP to SEP cell SEP ratio SEP 7.6 SEP 7.4 SEP 6.9 SEP SEP 6.47 tb PRODUCT tb SEP NHT SEP HT SEP NHT SEP HT SEP NHT SEP HT SEP NHT SEP HT SEP NHT SEP HT tb Rheology SEP SEP 1.0 SEP 11204 .14 SEP 18336 SEP .01 SEP 10285 .13 SEP 15481 SEP .08 SEP 10450 SEP .14 SEP 14386 SEP .08 SEP 7441 SEP .19 SEP 13554 SEP .10 SEP 13272 SEP .12 SEP 17321 SEP .07 tb of SEP product SEP SEP 0.3 SEP 631 SEP .31 SEP 1548 SEP .22 SEP 538 SEP .39 SEP 1320 SEP .24 SEP 691 SEP .35 SEP 1682 SEP .20 SEP 360 SEP .44 SEP 346 SEP .45 SEP 716 SEP .36 SEP 1569 SEP .22 tb in SEP salt, SEP K n cps SEP 0.1 SEP 46 SEP .60 SEP 192 SEP .39 SEP 38 SEP .63 SEP 110 SEP .47 SEP 63 SEP .55 SEP 179 SEP .39 SEP 30 SEP .65 SEP 30 SEP .65 SEP 77 SEP .52 SEP 142 SEP .45 tb Decarboxylation SEP corected SEP SEP 4.2 SEP 4.2 SEP 4.1 SEP 4.4 SEP 4.1 SEP 4.4 SEP 4.02 SEP 4.19 SEP 4.3 SEP 4.4 tb Ash SEP SEP 11.8 SEP 9.4 SEP 8.6 SEP 12.45 SEP 12.7 SEP 14.56 SEP 14.38 SEP 10.3 SEP 11.09 tb N SEP SEP 1.32 SEP 1.39 SEP 1.4 SEP 1.4 SEP 1.0 SEP 1.43 SEP 1.39 SEP 1.83 SEP 1.70 tb Pyruvate SEP SEP 7.0 SEP 6.5 SEP 5.3 SEP 5.1 SEP 5.4 SEP 6.4 SEP 6.1 SEP 6.9 SEP 6.7 SEP 5.8 tb Moisture SEP SEP 4.0 SEP 0.6 SEP 6.7 SEP 7.0 SEP 9.0 SEP 7.1 SEP 11.04 SEP 11.14 SEP 9.2 SEP 9.11 tb Table 3 EMI16.1 CONDITIONS SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 4 tb Limitation SEP concentration SEP N S 0,018g 1 SEP S 0.012g 1 SEP S 0.012g 1 SEP S 0.012g 1 tb Product SEP concentration SEP g 1 SEP 23.1 SEP 19.7 SEP 22.6 SEP 22.0 tb Cell SEP concentration SEP E540 SEP units SEP 4.52 SEP 3.88 SEP 5.2 SEP 3.0 tb Dry SEP cell SEP wt, SEP g 1 SEP 2.25 SEP 3.4 SEP 2.8 tb Broth SEP rheology SEP K n cpt SEP 45076 SEP .15 SEP 24139 .14 SEP 43133 SEP .13 SEP 31817 .18 tb g SEP O2 m.moles SEP g.h 1 SEP 3.57 SEP 7.4 SEP 6.53 SEP 6.8 tb Polymer SEP to SEP cell SEP ratio SEP 5.6 SEP 7.76 SEP 5.65 SEP 6.9 tb PRODUCT tb SEP NHT SEP HT SEP NHT SEP HT SEP NHT SEP HT SEP NHT SEP HT tb Rheology SEP SEP 1.0 SEP 8567 .18 SEP 18826 .06 SEP 10400 .16 SEP 12582 SEP .13 SEP 9691 SEP .17 SEP 17102 SEP .09 SEP 10573 SEP .15 SEP 13987 SEP .1 tb of SEP product SEP SEP 0.3 SEP 459 SEP .41 SEP 1304 SEP .25 SEP 333 SEP .48 SEP 575 SEP .37 SEP 1320 SEP .26 SEP 1384 SEP .24 SEP 688 SEP .38 SEP 1396 SEP .25 tb in SEP salt, SEP K n cps SEP 0.1 SEP 43 SEP .60 SEP 101 SEP .49 SEP 36 SEP .63 SEP 51 SEP .58 SEP 63 SEP .55 SEP 100 SEP .50 SEP 69 SEP .53 SEP 161 .43 tb Decarboxylation SEP corected SEP SEP 4.36 SEP 4.20 SEP 4.27 SEP 4.37 SEP 3.9 SEP 4.06 SEP 4.0 SEP 4.2 tb Ash SEP SEP 10.39 SEP 8.32 SEP 10.47 SEP 10.67 SEP 6.51 SEP 7.66 SEP 13.26 SEP 12.8 tb N SEP SEP 2.21 SEP 2.08 SEP 2.18 SEP 2.18 SEP 1.86 SEP 1.96 SEP 1.72 SEP 1.83 tb Pyruvate SEP SEP 0.9 SEP 1.40 SEP 3.4 SEP 3.4 SEP 1.3 SEP 0.6 SEP 7.2 SEP 6.7 SEP 6.7 SEP 5.8 tb Moisture SEP SEP 5.76 SEP 7.62 SEP 5.28 SEP 12.27 SEP 10.28 SEP 3.21 SEP 6.04 SEP 6.1 tb In Example 1, the fermentation produced an acceptableTPM and E540, and the polymer cell ratio was 7.6.The product had excellent rheological properties and an acceptable pyruvate content. In Example 2, with double the level of manganese, zinc, copper, cobalt and boron, and with one fifth the level of iron, theE540, dry cell weight and TPM were excellent. The product had good rheological properties and the pyruvate content and decarboxylation assay were also high. For Example 3, yeast extract was included in the medium.A steady state was obtained for this fermentation with a productivity of 1.21 gl 1. The polymer cell ratio was 6.9 and the product had a high pyruvate content and decarboxylation assay. In addition to good rheological properties, the heat treated product had an inherent viscosity of 26.8 dl.g 1 which compares very favourably with other samples and indicates a high molecular weight polymer. For Example 4, less sulphate was included to test whether product purity, particularly polymer cell ratio, N content and decarboxylation assay could be improved by lowering the cell mass when the sulphur concentration decreased. At 75 sulphur there was a corresponding lowering in E540, indicating that the process was indeed sulphur limited. The Q02 was unchanged and the TPM decreased as expected. The product cell ratio as based on TPM E540 ratio was unchanged compared to cultures with sulphur concentration of 0.012 9l l run at a similar dissolved oxygen concentration. Furthermore, no great changes were observed in the nitrogen content or decarboxylation assay of the product. The decarboxylation assay was possibly depressed by glucose contamination of the product. The results of Example 5 gave equally encouraging results.A TPM of about 27 gl 1 was obtained, thus indicating good productivity.The QO, and polymer cell ratio were high. Comparison Example 1 typifies our research with the use of a higher concentration of trace elements. The small scale fermentations of this type were characterised by low TPM, productivity and conversion efficiency. In addition product rheology was poor unless heat treated, which might reflect the low purity of the product since the products failed in nitrogen content and decarboxylation assay. The polymer cell ratio and respiration rate were both low. For Comparison Example 2, the culture was grown in the absence of any added trace elements or organic nutrient supplement and produced a low yield of xanthan. However, the 902 and polymer cell ratio were high which was consistent with the lower cell density. Thus lack of trace elements restricted cell growth and, thereby, polymer production. In addition the pyruvate content of the product was lower than usual but the product rheology and decarboxylation assay were unaffected. When a similar culture was supplemented in ComparisonExample 3 with .2 gl 1 yeast extract as a source of trace elements, the cell dry weight and polymer production returned to the more usual levels, even at the higher dilution rate of 0.049 h 1. However, the pyruvate content of the product was even lower than in the absence of yeast extract and the product failed the decarboxylation assay.As expected the product had a low zinc content. Thus the lack of trace elements causes a reduction in polymer production and pyruvate content which the yeast extract supplement only partially overcomes. For Comparison Example 4, zinc was omitted. The E540 and cell dry weight decreased, resulting in a lower TPM but not affecting the polymer cell ratio significantly. Furthermore, the Q 2 and product pyruvate content were high. Product rheology was satisfactory and decarboxylation after heat treatment was borderline.Thus Zn seems only essential for providing an adequate cell mass.Example 6 This example is a larger scale fermentation based on the promising results of Example 5. A shake flask containing 100 ml of a 24 h culture of the same strain in MYGP medium was used to inoculate a 20 litre batch fermenter containing the defined mediumA of Table 4 with dissolved dextrose monohydrate at carbon source. Table 4EMI20.1 tb SEP Medium SEP A SEP Medium SEP B tb Citric SEP acid SEP gl 1 SEP 1.0 SEP 1.0 tb Acetic SEP acid SEP ml SEP 0.45 SEP 0.45 tb Mg SEP OH 2 SEP gl 1 SEP 0.0775 SEP 0.0775 tb Ce SEP OH 2 SEP gl 1 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 tb NH4 2 SEP HP04 SEP gl 1 SEP 3.77 SEP 3.0 tb Glucose SEP Syrup SEP 45 SEP 40gl 1 SEP Meri SEP 59 tb SEP Dexyme SEP 081 SEP gl 1 SEP tose SEP for SEP batch SEP 1 tb Glucose SEP equivalent SEP 33.5 SEP SEP 36 SEP SEP 44 tb SEP gl 1 tb K2HPO4 SEP gl 1 SEP 1.0 SEP 1.0 tb Fe SEP SO4 SEP 7H2O SEP gl 1 SEP 0.0356 SEP 0.0356 tb Mn SEP SO4 SEP 7H2O SEP gl 1 SEP 0.0011 SEP 0.0011 tb Zn SEP SO4 SEP 7H2O SEP gl 1 SEP 0.00142 SEP 0.00142 tb Cu SEP SO4 SEP 5H2O SEP gl 1 SEP 0.00025 SEP 0.00025 tb Co SEP 504 SEP 7H20 SEP gl 1 SEP 0.00029 SEP 0.00029 tb H3SO4 SEP gl 1 SEP 0.00006 SEP 0.00006 tb Mg SEP SO4 SEP 7H2O SEP gl 1 SEP 0.058 SEP 0.081 tb After a short lag phase of 10 h, the culture grew with a doubling time of 5 h. At 44 h the E540 was 4.1 and 18 litre were used to inoculate 350 litre of defined medium in a 1000 litre fermenter. The initial 350 litre of medium contained 40 gl 1 dextrose and 0.015 gl 1S to support good growth of the culture. Glucose syrup then replaced dextrose as the carbon source and top up to the working volume of 790 litre began at 30 h when the E540 andTPM were 3.5 and 11.3 gl 1, respectively. Continuous operation with a dilution rate of 0.04 h 1 began at 48.5 h when the E540 reached 6.4 and the TPM was 25.6 gl The residual nitrogen concentration at this time was almost zero. Medium B was then used, in which the sulphur concentration was reduced to 0.012 gel 1 to avoid nitrogen limitation. The TPM rose steadily to 31.9 gel 1 during the fermentation and the polymer cell ratio was 9.65. Furthermore, the pyruvate concentration of the product remained consistently high at around 6 . These much improved data were associated with a low DOT in the culture. To avoid oxygen limitation, however, the air flow was increased from 1000 litre mien 1 to 1250 litre mien 1 at 143 h and over 40 h the DOT increased 3 fold. During this time the Q02 decreased by 25 , the polymer cell ratio fell to 6.5 and a small decrease in the product pyruvate concentration occurred. It was possible to maintain a true steady state for 40 h. Colony variants of the X.campestris were not observed with routine sampling onto MYGP agar plates during the run. The fermentation conditions and product analyses for towards the end of the run are given in Table 5. Table 5 Fermentation DataProduct concn gl 1 26.9Call mass E 540 units 4.8Call mass gl 1 3.6Productivity g lh 1 1.13 qO2 m.moles g cell.h 1 6.31Broth rheology K cp 37007Product non heat treated lab precipitated Nitrogen 1.37Pyruvate 6.7Decarboxylation 4.35Sulphated Ash 10.3Moisture Rheology 1.0 salt K cp 13272 n .12 0.1 salt K cp .77 n .52 Corrected for moisture Broth collected from the fermenter was treated by heat treatment at 125 to 1260C for a residence time of 1.7 to 1.8 min, followed by precipitation in a screw precipitator using isopropyl alcohol. After the precipitation, the xanthan gum was pressed, pelletized, dried and milled. 14.5 kg of milled material was obtained. This had a consistency index of 14,5000 with n 0.1 and gave an analysis of 11.65 ash, 1.69 nitrogen, 4.29X decarboxylation and 5.3 pyruvate.Examples 7 and 8 Using the apparatus and procedure of Examples 1 and 5, a shake flask culture 100 ml was used as an inoculum. Cultures were grown for 24 h before introduction of a continuous flow of medium of the composition indicated in Table 6. ExampleEMI25.1 tb Component SEP 9l SEP tb Citric SEP acid SEP 1.0 SEP 1.0 tb Acetic SEP acid SEP 0.45 SEP ml.l 1 SEP 0.45 SEP ml.l 1 SEP 0.45 SEP ml.l 1 tb Ca OH 2 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 tb Mg OH 2 SEP 0.0775 tb MgSO4.7H SEP 0 SEP 0.058 SEP 0.2 tb K2HPO4 SEP 1.0 SEP SEP SEP 1.0 tb NH4 2HPO4 SEP SEP 1.0 tb Glucose SEP syrup SEP 52 SEP 55 tb Trace SEP elements SEP 1 SEP 0.05 SEP ml.l 1 SEP 0.05 SEP ml.l 1 tb Trace SEP elements SEP 4 SEP 0.40 SEP ml.l 1 SEP 0.40 SEP ml.l 1 tb Yeast SEP extract SEP 4.0 SEP SEP 1.5 tb Composition of the Trace ElementsSolutions 1 and 4 Solution 1 MnSO4.4H2O 22.0g ZnSO4.7H 0 23.409 2CuSO4.5H2O 5.00g CoSO4. 7H2 0 5.669H3BO4 1.209Solution 4 FeSO4.7H2O 89.0gCitric acid 50.0g Both solutions were prepared as a stock solution in 1 I distilled water. The impeller speed was set between 400 and 625 rev.min. 1 to obtain a dissolved oxygen tension DOT between 10 and 30 of air saturation. The air flow was Set between 2.0 and 2.5 litre min. 1. For heat treatment, broth was diluted 1 1 with distilled water and heat treated at 125 C for 2 min. The results are given in Table 7. Table 7EMI27.1 tb SEP Example tb SEP 7 SEP 8 tb SEP Fermentation SEP Data tb SEP Polymer SEP cell SEP TPM Cells SEP 1.0 1 SEP 7.2 1 tb SEP 1 SEP cells SEP tb TPM SEP gl SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 24.5 SEP 23.0 tb SEP Productivity SEP jI SEP It SEP SEP 1.25 SEP 0.92 tb SEP qO2 SEP m. SEP moles g.cells.h Ú SEP 8.71 SEP 5.22 tb SEP Cell SEP dry SEP weight SEP gl Ú SEP 2.1 SEP 2.80 tb SEP E540 SEP 4.00 SEP 4.00 tb SEP Broth SEP viscosity, SEP K n mPas SEP 18542 .23 SEP 33805 .17 SEP tb SEP Conversion SEP efficiency SEP SEP 77 SEP 43 tb SEP Product SEP Data tb SEP N SEP 1.17 SEP tb SEP Consistency SEP index SEP 1.0 SEP 1 SEP 10928 .13 SEP tb SEP Lab SEP K mPasn Flow SEP 0.3 SEP NaCl SEP 750 .33 SEP tb SEP ppt SEP behaviour SEP indexn SEP 0.1 SEP 52 .59 SEP tb SEP N SEP 1.05 SEP 1.11 tb SEP Ash SEP SEP SEP 9.43 SEP 10.52 tb SEP Heat SEP Moisture SEP SEP 6.38 SEP 10.15 SEP tb SEP treated SEP Pyruvate SEP SEP SEP 5.85 SEP 3.80 SEP tb SEP ppt SEP Decarboxylation SEP SEP 4.02 SEP 3.9 tb SEP Consistency SEP index SEP 1.0 SEP 1 SEP 16765 .10 SEP 13781 .10 tb SEP K mPasn flow SEP 0.3 SEP NaCl SEP 1209 .24 SEP 1199 .26 tb SEP behaviour SEP index SEP n SEP 0.1 SEP 116 .46 SEP 103 .49 tb For these examples, yeast extract was used as partial or sole nitrogen source in cultures presumed to be nitrogen limited. A satisfactory fermentation resulted. The product from Example 7 obtained met nitrogen specification but not decarboxylation specification, probably due to the high concentration of residual glucose in the fermentation. Viscosity after heat treatment was satisfactory as was pyruvate content. Similar results were obtained in Example 8 when ammonium and yeast extract were used jointly as nitrogen sources in a nitrogen limited culture. Pyruvate content was lower but within specification,