# Process for the production of water soluble powders or concentrated solutions of cationic dyes.

## Abstract
Process for the preparation of a cationic dye in the form of a water soluble solid or a concentrated solution characte rized by a preparing a cyanate of a cationic dye b isolating the dye cyanate c reacting the dye cyanate with an organic acid to produce a solution of the cationic dye salt of the organic acid, and optionally d converting the solution into a solid form. The invention includes a dyebath prepared from such a cationic dye, a method of dyeing or printing polyacrylonitrile, acid modified esters or polyamides using such a cationic dye and polyacrylonitrile, acid modified polyesters or polyamide fibres or fabrics dyed or printed with such a cationic dye.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Process for the preparation of a cationic dye in the form of a water soluble solid or a concentrated solution characterized by a preparing a cyanate of a cationic dye b isolating the dye cyanate, c reacting the dye cyanate with an organic acid to produce a solution of the cat ionic dye salt of the organic acid, and optionally d converting the solution into a solid form. 2. Process according to claim 1 characterized in that the cationic dye is soluble or partly soluble in water or organic aqueous solutions. 3. Process according to claims 1 or 2 characterized in that the dye cyanate is prepared by reacting an aqueous or organic aqueous solution or suspension of a cationic dye salt with a watersoluble cyanate. 4. Process according to claim 3 characterized in that the water soluble cyanate is ammonium, sodium or potassium cyanate. 5. Process according to claims 3 or 4 characterized in that the reaction with the watersoluble cyanate is carried out in water at a temperature of 15 80 0C and at a concentration of cationic dye salt of 5 50 w v. 6. Process according to any of claims 1 to 5 characterized in that the organic acid is a mono or poly carboxylic acid. 7. . Dyebath characterized in that it is prepared from the cationic dye claimed in claim 1. 8. Method of dyeing or printing polyacrylonitrile, acid modified polyesters or polyamides characterized in that a cationic dye as claimed in claim 1 is used. 9. Polyacrylonitrile, acid modified polyesters or polyamide fibres or fabrics characterized in that they are dyed or printed with a cationic dye as claimed in claim 1.

## Description
DESCRIPTION PROCESS FOR THE PRODUCTION OF WATER SOLUBLE POWDERS OR CONCENTRATED SOLUTIONS OF CATIONIC DYES The present invention relates to a process for the preparation of cationic dyes in the form of a watersoluble solid or a concentrated solution. The desirable commercial forms of cationic dyes are i water soluble preferably easily wettable solids, preferably easily wettable, non dusting, highly soluble powders or ii stable concentrated solutions preferably aqueous solutions optionally containing organic solvents . There are known a number of processes for producing such commercially desirable forms which depend upon effecting an exchange of the dye anion.It is known that the nature of the dye anion can markedly effect the solubility of the dye, for example the mineral acid salts of cationic dyes are often poorly soluble, whereas the organic acid salts are often highly soluble. Known processes which effect ion exchange may be direct or indirect. For example, direct methods include treatment of a solution of the dye sulphate or chloride in acetic acid with sodium acetate, barium carbonate or lead oxide with subsequent filtration to remove the precipitated metal sulphate or chloride. For example indirect methods involve the precipitation of the dye hydroxide or bicarbonate which may be isolated and reacted with an organic acid to produce a solution of the organic acid salt of the dye. Both these methods involve difficult filtrations, the metal sulphate or chloride separating in finely divided from and the dye hydroxides or bicarbonates often separating as oils or resinous precipitates.When isolated, the dye hydroxides or bicarbonates are relatively unstable, particularly on drying at elevated temperatures and the process fails when applied to alkali sensitive dyes through degradation of the dye cation. We have now discovered an indirect ion exchange process which may be applied with equal facility to alkali insensitive or alkali sensitive dyes, gives highly crystalline easily filterable precipitates which may be dried at elevated temperatues and which react readily with organic acids to produce stable concen trated solutions or, by subsequent evaporation, highly soluble solids e.g. easily wettable powders. According to the present invention therefore there is provided a process for the preparation of a cationic dye in the form of a water soluble solid or a concentrated solution which comprises. a preparing a cyanate of a cationic dye b isolating the dye cyanate c reacting the dye cyanate with an organic acid to produce a solution of the cationic dye salt of the organic acid, and optionally d converting the solution into a solid form. The expression solid form includes all such solid forms e.g. cake form and granulate form but the most preferred solid form is a powder. By the term dye cyanate is meant the salt which comprises a cationic dye cation and a cyanate anion. Any cationic dye may be useable according to the present invention. Examples thereof may be drawn from a variety of chemical classes including dyes of the azo, anthraquinone, methine, azomethine, oxazine and quinophthalone series. The dyes are usually in the form of inorganic salts, are preferably soluble or partly soluble in water or organic aqueous solutions and are typically chlordes, bromides, bisulphates, sulphates, methosulphates, phosphates or metal halide salts. The dye cyanate may conveniently be prepared by reacting an aqueous or organic aqueous solution or suspension of a cationic dye salt with a water soluble Cyanate. The solution or suspension of the cationic dye salt may be prepared from isolated cationic dye salt or may result from the process of preparation of the cationic dye salt. The water soluble cyanates are of the alkali metal or alkaline earth metal series or ammonium cyanate and are preferably ammonium, sodium or potassium cyanate. The reaction of the cationic dye salt with the water soluble cyanate may be carried out in a mixture of water and a water miscible organic solvent, but is preferably carried out in water at a temperature of 0 1000C, preferably 15 800C, at a concentration of cationic dye salt of 2 80 w v, preferably 5 50 . The water soluble cyanate may be added as a solid or an aqueous solution optionally in excess of the stoichiometric amount to complete the precipitation of the cationic dye cyanate which separates directly as a crystalline precipitate or, in some cases separates as an oil which rapidly crystallises. The cationic dye cyanate is readily isolated by filtration and subsequently reacted, either after drying or as a moist filter cake, with an organic acid in the presence of an organic solvent and or water according to the reaction.EMI4.1 where D is the dye cation and A the anion of an organic acid. Preferred organic acids useable according to this invention include mono and polycarboxylic acids, for example, formic acid, acetic acid, propionic acid, onochloracetic acid, acrylic acid, succinic acid, maleic acid, citric acid and lactic acid and sulphonic acids, preferably lower alkyl sulphonic acids, for example methane or ethane sulphonic acid. As examples oforganic solvents there may be mentioned ethanol, isopropanol, ethylene glycol, propylene glycol, 2 methoxy ethanol 2 methoxy ethyl acetate, benzyl alcohol, dimethylacetamide or sulpholane. The reaction occurs with evolution of carbon dioxide, and the formation of the cationic dye salt of the organic acid together with the ammonium salt of the organic acid. The organic acid is chosen so that its ammonium salt is highly soluble in water and does not affect the stability of the dye solution. The reaction is normally carried out at ambient temperature but may be accelerated by heating. The dye solutions so obtained may be converted to water soluble solid form, e.g. powder, by a suitable drying process, for example, by spray drying. The dye in solution or solid form is suitable in particular for use in the dyeing and printing of polyacrylonitrile and acid modified polyesters and polyamides. The invention also provides a dyebath made up using a solid or solution of the invention, a method of dyeing using such a dyebath and the fibres or fabrics so dyed. The dye solutions obtained according to this invention are distinguished by very good storage stability even at high concentrations and low temperatures. The invention is further illustrated by the following examples.EXAMPLE 1. 80 g of the cationic dye of formulaEMI6.1 are stirred in 1000 ml water at 50 60 0C until the dye dissolves. The temperature is adjusted to 30 0C when a solution of 40 g potassium cyanate in 100 mls water is added over 20 30 minutes. The mixture is cooled to 250C with stirring when the separated dye cyanate crystallises. The suspension is filtered off under suction and the cake washed with a solution of 10 g potassium cyanate in 200 mls water, the cake is pulled well down. The moist filter cake is slurred in a mixture of 50 g water and 40 g ethylene glycol and 40 g of acetic acid are added gradually with stirring and stirring is continued until the evolution of carbon dioxide ceases. There is thus obtained a stable concentrated solution of the cationic dye which may be used directly. A liquid of greater tinctorial strength may be obtained by drying the isolated dye cyanate for several hours at 500C.EXAMPLE 2. If 80 g of the cationic dye. of formula A represents a bisulphate anion EMI7.1 are treated in the manner described in Example 1 there is obtained a stable concentrated solution of the dye of above fomula where A represents an acetate ion.EXAMPLE 3. 13.5 g of a dye base of formula EMI8.1 are stirred in 60 ml water at 200C. 1.5 g magnesium oxide are added and 15 mls dimethyl sulphate are added portionwise. The mixture is stirred for several hours until the quaternisation is complete when the temperature is raised to 70 0C for 1 hour. The solution is cooled and diluted to 600 ml with water and the pH adjusted to 6 with magnesium oxide. 10 g of sodium cyanate are added and the precipitated dye of formulaEMI8.2 is filtered off and the moist cake slurried in a mixture of 20 g propylene glycol and 20 g sulpholane. Propionic acid is added portionwise until effervesence ceases. The resulting solution may be further diluted with water to the required strengh. A liquid of greater tinctorial strenqth may be obtained by drying the isolated dye cyanate for several hours at 50 C. EXAMPLE 4. 40 g of a dye of formulaEMI9.1 are stirred in 1000 ml water at 550C when 10 g potassium cyanate are added portionwise. The mixture is filtered and washed with a little potassium cyanate solution. The moist filter cake is added portionwise to 40 g formic acid to yield a clear solution of the dye formate. EXAMPLE 5. If the dye in Example 4 is replaced by a dye of formulaEMI9.2 and the precipitated dye cyanate is slurried in 40 g 2 methoxyethanol and 40 g water and treated with 20 g monochloroacetic acid there is similarly obtained a clear concentrated solution.EXAMPLE 6. 20 g of a dye of formula EMI10.1 are stirred in 1000 ml water at 70 0C when 8 g ammonium cyanate are added gradually. On cooling below 20 0C the initially oily precipitate crystallises and is filtered off. The moist filter cake is treated with 10 g of propionic acid and the mixture warmed to 30 C. When effervesence ceases the solution is evaporated to dryness and the residue ground up to give a dye powder of much greater solubility than the original dye.EXAMPLE 7. 20 g of a dye of formulaEMI10.2 are stirred in 500 mls water at 60 0C until dissolved.10 g of sodium cyanate are added gradually and the mixture cooled to room temperature. The precipitated dye cyanate is filtered off and the moist cake is slurred in a solution of 20 g of ethylene glycol and 20 g water. 10 g acetic acid are added and the mixture warmed gently to 60 0C until effervesence ceases. The solution is cooled and screened to give a clear concentrated dye solution.EXAMPLE 8. Dyebaths are prepared from any one of the dye solutions or powders from Examples 1 to 7 by adding 1 part of the dye solution or powder to 2000 parts of water containing one part of 80 acetic acid and two parts of sodium acetate crystals. 100 parts of polyacrylonitrile yarn are introduced into the dyebath at room temperature and the temperature is raised to 100 C over 1 hour and maintained for two hours. After this time the dyed yarn is cooled, rinsed and dried. The following table gives further examples of cat ionic dyes which may be converted to water soluble powders or concentrated solutions, and used, in accordance with the general methods illustrated in the foregoing Examples. EMI12.1 tb Z SEP Cyanate SEP Organic SEP Soivnt SEP or tb SEP No. SEP Dye SEP salt SEP Acid SEP olvent SEP Mix tb SEP ture tb SEP CL SEP C2H5 SEP Potassium SEP I SEP Ethylene tb SEP 9 SEP 02N SEP 0 SEP IC SEP I SEP Cyanate SEP Acid SEP qlycol water tb SEP CL tb SEP so4 tb SEP w SEP Acetic SEP Isopropanol tb SEP 10 SEP 021SN SEP C3H7 SEP CL SEP Cyanate SEP Acid SEP water tb SEP tb SEP 3 SEP m tb SEP NH tb SEP o SEP Potassium SEP Propionic SEP 2 Methoxy tb SEP SEP Cyanate SEP Acid SEP ethanol tb SEP 11 SEP QN NCH2N CH3 SEP 3 tb SEP HO SEP I tb SEP CH tb SEP SEP C SEP 3 SEP a1 SEP U tb SEP 12 tb SEP Z SEP N SEP Cm SEP acetic SEP glycol tb SEP Acid SEP Sulpholane tb SEP 2H4N SEP water tb SEP Br tb SEP n SEP ux SEP X SEP X SEP r SEP n tb SEP SEP o SEP n SEP o SEP n SEP o SEP n SEP o SEP u SEP y tb SEP b SEP ffi SEP SEP y SEP SEP e SEP SEP y SEP X SEP 8J tb SEP 3 SEP i e SEP Da SEP gD SEP DX SEP DX SEP b SEP gD SEP H SEP tb SEP 01 SEP C SEP 1 SEP rl7 SEP 3 SEP Dq SEP X SEP D7 SEP e SEP DJ tb SEP w SEP 3 SEP gb SEP tO SEP gD SEP tq SEP s SEP ft tb SEP XD SEP K SEP FJ SEP rt SEP F commat SEP rt SEP Ps SEP D tb SEP commat SEP 3C SEP commat SEP 3 SEP commat SEP 3C tb SEP 3 SEP ra SEP SEP SEP SEP O tb SEP o SEP n SEP n SEP a SEP n SEP n tb SEP 3 SEP t SEP O SEP 1 SEP D SEP 1 SEP tD SEP o SEP IQ tb SEP D SEP O SEP tz SEP X SEP Q SEP Ot SEP Qg SEP rt SEP 1 tb SEP o SEP n SEP n SEP SEP SEP w SEP v3 tb SEP ffi SEP fD SEP S SEP oJ SEP o3 SEP Q SEP n SEP Q tb SEP n tb SEP o tb SEP t SEP UJ SEP SEP m SEP D SEP N SEP SEP H SEP t SEP Ta SEP W SEP O SEP U, tb SEP DX SEP C SEP SEP st SEP I SEP D SEP tq SEP w SEP ft SEP iC tb SEP tt SEP SEP S SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP Xt SEP O SEP SEP S SEP tb SEP XX SEP n SEP SEP SEP commat SEP Xr SEP nK SEP X SEP tb SEP S SEP O SEP FZ SEP 3 SEP e SEP n SEP t SEP O SEP FP SEP n SEP X tb SEP O SEP 1 SEP D SEP O SEP J SEP O SEP 1 SEP D SEP ot tb SEP F s3 SEP H SEP O SEP X SEP o3 SEP e SEP rte tb SEP b SEP commat SEP X SEP b SEP SEP commat SEP commat SEP 3 tb SEP J SEP SEP 3 SEP b SEP F1 SEP F SEP o tb SEP t D SEP O SEP w1 SEP D SEP Dc SEP tb EMI13.1 tb SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP ir tb SEP No. SEP Dye SEP commat SEP oZ SEP 3 tb SEP D tb SEP CH3 SEP CL SEP C2H5 SEP Sodium SEP Acetic SEP Propylene tb SEP 13 SEP N N SEP N C SEP H SEP SEP c25 SEP Br SEP Cyanate SEP Acid SEP glycol Sul tb SEP N tb SEP C SEP w SEP 2 Methoxy tb SEP CH SEP Cyanate SEP Acid SEP ethyl tb SEP C SEP C tb SEP n SEP SEP SEP o SEP 11 SEP z SEP r SEP tb SEP CH3 SEP 504 tb SEP I SEP z tb SEP z tb SEP n SEP nz SEP tb SEP CH3 SEP yanate SEP Acid SEP glycol water tb SEP 15 SEP ,CH3 SEP CH3 tb SEP IPUI tb SEP 3 SEP . SEP CL tb SEP SEP 3 SEP n SEP 3 SEP n SEP tOa SEP O SEP n tb SEP 3 SEP O SEP S SEP 3 SEP DS SEP ss SEP DJ SEP D tb SEP D SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP O SEP 3 SEP SEP FF SEP 3 tb SEP f SEP D SEP 3 SEP e SEP DX tb SEP D SEP 3C SEP ED SEP 3 SEP commat SEP 3 SEP D tb SEP SEP be SEP O tb SEP SEP n SEP N SEP SEP n tb SEP n SEP SEP o SEP SEP n SEP tb SEP SEP n SEP n SEP n SEP o SEP n SEP X tb SEP ss SEP 1 SEP F commat 0 SEP 3 SEP Fa SEP It SEP 14 SEP 3 tb SEP SEP R SEP 1 SEP Qs SEP H SEP CL SEP 1 tb SEP n SEP n SEP n SEP Q tb SEP Q SEP W SEP b SEP commat SEP M SEP vQ SEP r SEP O SEP O tb SEP w SEP e SEP n SEP e SEP verbar SEP 5 SEP H SEP n SEP w SEP P tb SEP SEP 5 SEP X SEP 5 SEP x SEP ow SEP o SEP SEP c tb SEP ns SEP SEP X SEP P SEP nr SEP X SEP X tb SEP Q SEP verbar SEP D SEP t SEP D1 SEP 0 SEP SEP 3 SEP 3 tb SEP wQ SEP SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP ww SEP e tb SEP s SEP 3 SEP X SEP o SEP X SEP s SEP X SEP c tb SEP t SEP commat SEP s SEP X SEP u SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 0 tb SEP DX SEP t SEP SEP c SEP commat SEP X SEP H SEP n tb SEP D SEP su SEP I SEP H SEP X tb SEP Ft SEP commat tb EMI14.1 tb SEP SEP SEP H SEP zw tb Example SEP Dye SEP O SEP 3 tb SEP D tb SEP CH tb SEP . SEP . SEP 3 SEP Potassium SEP Acetic SEP Dimethylacet tb SEP 16 SEP H SEP 2N O SEP C SEP NH2 SEP H2P04 SEP Acid SEP amide water tb SEP H3C SEP CL 0ycL SEP CH3 tb SEP cr SEP e SEP Sulpholane Benzyl tb SEP W SEP 2B23 trt3 SEP 2 SEP CL SEP Cyanate SEP Acid SEP alcohol water tb SEP 0 SEP b n tb SEP h, SEP h, SEP SEP so tb SEP o SEP cr tb SEP Acid tb SEP w SEP I tb SEP a tb SEP SEP SEP n SEP o SEP o SEP c SEP w tb SEP pi SEP PI SEP Y SEP rt SEP rt SEP PI SEP P, tb SEP I SEP W SEP O, SEP P, SEP P SEP rtr tb SEP NC SEP 3 SEP M SEP u SEP SEP u tb SEP DC SEP V tb SEP fD SEP C SEP SEP F4 SEP P SEP D tb SEP 3 SEP fD SEP C SEP C tb SEP SEP n SEP 3 tb SEP n SEP c SEP e SEP o tb SEP F SEP H SEP rt SEP SEP SEP It tb SEP vt SEP s SEP SEP n SEP n SEP s tb SEP s SEP b SEP SEP n SEP SEP commat SEP M SEP b tb SEP o SEP 3 SEP n SEP X SEP n SEP SEP v3 tb SEP SEP tD SEP P SEP e SEP P SEP P SEP H tb SEP M SEP ffi SEP SEP ffi SEP n SEP n tb SEP n SEP n tb SEP C SEP Pl SEP รง SEP 3 SEP SEP tt tb SEP l SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP P SEP 3 SEP SEP tb SEP X SEP n SEP X SEP ffi SEP O SEP w SEP P tb SEP 5 SEP o SEP 5 SEP X SEP e SEP SEP tb SEP o SEP 5 SEP o SEP s SEP 5 SEP X SEP X tb SEP w SEP o SEP P SEP SEP SEP 3 SEP 3 tb SEP b SEP H SEP PX SEP DX SEP P SEP rt SEP e tb SEP 3 SEP SEP SEP e SEP tb SEP X SEP SEP SEP X SEP n SEP 3o tb SEP o SEP s SEP O SEP P SEP n tb SEP SEP e SEP 1x1 SEP e SEP x tb SEP SEP commat SEP 3 SEP l SEP c tb SEP tD SEP N SEP Fr tb SEP Y SEP fD tb SEP w tb EMI15.1 tb SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP xw SEP F SEP or tb No. SEP Dye SEP Salt SEP commat SEP Z SEP tb SEP H SEP O SEP 0 SEP O SEP r tb C SEP O tb SEP 3 SEP Acid SEP glycol tb SEP Wz SEP ,C2H4N SEP ,CH2 SEP CL tb SEP 02N SEP H3 SEP C SEP CH2 tb SEP SEP Ammonium SEP Propionic SEP Di SEP ethylene tb SEP S CHCHCHN CH SEP SEP Cyanate SEP Acid SEP glycol SEP Mono tb 20 SEP t SEP O SEP N SEP 3 SEP commat tb SEP 0 SEP 5042 tb SEP HO tb SEP 3 SEP W SEP Z SEP h tb SEP n SEP Y tb SEP I SEP Ul SEP tn SEP O SEP Acetic SEP n tb SEP CH SEP M SEP SEP ,,c2H5 SEP Cyanate SEP Acid SEP tb 21 SEP N SEP SEP C tb SEP 2H5 tb SEP C e b tb SEP SEP ZnCl4 tb SEP I SEP C tb SEP n SEP tn SEP SEP SEP n tb SEP Y SEP v SEP Yn SEP 3 SEP n SEP Q SEP Uz SEP D J tb SEP 3 SEP P SEP Dl SEP O SEP SEP 3 SEP D SEP 3 tb SEP DJ SEP C SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP DR SEP X SEP P SEP b tb SEP 3 SEP SEP C SEP 3 SEP u SEP y tb SEP fD SEP 3 SEP commat SEP 3C tb SEP SEP F1 SEP xn SEP O tb SEP n SEP on SEP n SEP X SEP SEP nc SEP tb SEP e e SEP w w SEP n SEP n SEP P SEP P tb SEP ss SEP oJ SEP 3o SEP Q, SEP 3 SEP Qg SEP 5 tb SEP n SEP n SEP n tb SEP 3 SEP s SEP c1 SEP x SEP oU.o tb SEP SEP SEP es SEP D SEP H0 SEP FF tb SEP n SEP SEP 5O SEP K SEP D SEP tb SEP O SEP P SEP SEP O SEP 5 SEP ns SEP oo tb SEP SEP tD SEP verbar SEP SEP O SEP l SEP 3 SEP 3 tb SEP SEP 3 SEP XD SEP 3 SEP XD SEP 3 SEP e SEP rT SEP rT tb SEP ll SEP SEP O SEP 3 SEP FD SEP t SEP 30 tb SEP tD SEP S SEP 3 SEP D SEP D SEP X commat tb SEP Fr SEP l SEP l tb