# Method of processing analog signals.

## Abstract
Analog signals having a maximum frequency compo nent Fm are separated into at least two kinds of sampled pulse series and transmitted by different transmission lines or stored into different memory regions. When the frequen cies of two sampling pulses are designated by F₁ and F₂, the two frequencies maintain a relation of F₁ F₂ 2Fm. More than two sampled pulse series transmitted through the transmission lines or read from the memory regions are synthesized in time series, so as to reproduce the analog signal.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method of processing analog signals characterized in that analog signals having a maximum frequency component Fm are sampled with at least two sampling pulses which, respectively, have frequencies F1 , F2 maintaining a relation F1 F 2Fm , the sampled pulses are transmitted through separate transmission paths or are stored in memory regions, and sampling pulses transmitted through said transmission paths or read from said memory regions are synthesized in time series to reproduce said analog signals. 2. A method of processing analog signals characterized in that analog signals having a maximum frequency component Fm are sampled with a sampling pulse having a frequency Fo which maintains a relation Fo 2Fm , a train of sampled pulses is divided into two or more series of sampled pulses and are transmitted through different transmission paths or are stored in memory regions, and said two or more series of sampled pulses transmitted through said transmission paths or read from said memory regions are synthesized in time series to reproduce said analog signals.

## Description
METHOD OF PROCESSING ANALOG SIGNALS The present invention relates to a method of processing analog signals, and more specially to a method which transmits analog signals through transmission paths having relatively narrow bands or which stores analog signals in memory regions. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION When the signals of bands extending to high frequency regions are to be transmitted or stored in the recording medium, the transmission paths or recording medium must be capable of meeting such bands. When the analog signals are to be sampled, the sampling theorem teaches that the sampling frequency must be at least twice as great as the maximum frequency component contained in the analog signals. When the samplingwfrequency is smaller than the above value or when signals of higher frequencies are applied, frequency components different from the original signals develop, and this frequency component is caused by being reflected at the half frequency of the sampling frequency. This is known as aliasing noise. OBJECTS AND SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION An object of the present invention is to provide a method of processing analog signals which utilizes positively the aliasing noise. Another object of the present invention is to provide a method of recording or transmitting signals of high frequency bands using a plurality of recording tracks or a plurality of circuits, particularly when the signals are to be recorded in a tape recorder which is not capable of recording signals of high frequencies or when a limitation is imposed on the bands of the circuits. First, the gist of the present invention resides in a method in which analog signals having a maximum frequency component Fm are sampled with at least two sampling pulses which, respectively, have frequencies F1 , F2 maintaining a relation F1 F2 2Fm , the sampled pulses are transmitted through separate transmission paths or are stored in memory regions, and sampling pulses transmitted through said transmission paths or read from said memory regions are synthesized in time series to reproduce said analog signals.Second, the gist of the present invention resides in a method in which analog signals having a maximum frequency component Fm are sampled with a sampling pulse having a frequency Fo which maintains a relation Fo 2Fm , a train of sampled pulses is divided into two or more series of sampled pulses and are transmitted through different transmission paths or are stored in memory regions, and said two or more series of sampled pulses transmitted through said transmission paths or read from said memory regions are synthesized in time series to reproduce said analog signals. Further features and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the ensuing description with reference to the accompanying drawings to which, however, the riope of the invention is in no way limited. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS Fig. 1 is a block diagram illustrating one embodiment of the present invention Figs. 2A, 2B, 2C, 2D are circuit diagrams and characteristics showing in detail each block shown in the block diagram of Fig. 1 Fig. 3 is a time chart showing the operation waveforms at each of the portions in Fig. 1 Fig. 4 is a block diagram illustrating another embodiment of the present invention and Fig. 5 is a time chart showing the operation waveforms at each of the portions in Fig. 4. DETAILED EXPLANATION OF THE INVENTION Fig. 1 is a block diagram illustrating an embodiment of the present invention. In Fig. 1, reference numeral 1 denotes an encoder, 2 denotes transmission lines or memory regions that serve as a recording medium in a recorder or the like, and 3 denotes a decoder. The decoder 1 includes, as shown in Fig. 1, a sampling pulse signal source 11, a frequency divider 12 which is connected to the sampling pulse signal source 11, AND gates 13a, 13b having inputs which receive the outputs Q, Q of the frequency divider 12 and the output of the sampling pulse signal source 11, sample holding circuits 14a, 14b which receive a signal input from input terminal and the outputs of the AND gates and which apply the outputs to a transmission line or to a memory region.Each of the sample holding circuits 14a, 14b includes, as shown in Fig. 2A, aFET transistor To , a resistor Ro and an amplifier Ao TheFET transistor To has a gate g which receives a sampling pulse, a source s which receives a signal input and a drain d which is connected to a connection point of the resistor Ro and the amplifier Ag. The decoder includes, as shown in Fig. 1, bandpass filters 15a, 15b, and lowpass filters 16a, 16b, which are connected to the transmission line or the memory region 2, sample holding circuits 17a, 17b which are connected to the outputs of the bandpass filters 1spa, 15b, respectively, and to the outputs of the lowpass filters 16a, 16b, respectively, a synthesizing circuit 18 which is connected to the outputs of the sample hold circuits 17a, 17b, and a lowpass filter 19 which is connected to the synthesizer 18.Each of the bandpass filters 15a, 15b includes, for example R as shown in Fig. 2B a , resistors R, 2 capacitors C, 2C, and an amplifier A, and the passing frequency f0 of the amplifier is 1 as shown in Fig. 2B b . As the lowpass 2 CR filters 16a, 16b, 19, a well known circuit, shown inFig. 2C a , which has a roll off character 24 dB octave, shown in Fig. 2C b , can be used. As the synthesizer 18, a circuit shown in Fig. 2D a or Fig. 2D b can be used. In the circuit shown in Fig. 2D a ,EMI3.1 and when R1 R2 t Vo V a Vb . In the circuit shown in Fig. 2D b ,EMI4.1 and when R1 R2 , V0 Va Vb. Next, we will explain the operation of the circuit shown in Fig. 1, with reference to the time chart shown inFig. 3. Signal inputs consist of analog signals as shown in Fig. 3 , andtheir maximum frequency component is denoted by Fm. The sampling pulse signal source 11 generates sampling pulse signals shown in Fig. 3 .of a frequency Fs. The frequency Fs is so selected that a relation between the frequency Fs and the frequency componentFm is Fs 2Fm. The frequency of the sampling pulse signals is divided into half, as shown in Fig. 3 i.e., divided into Fs 2 by a frequency divider 12, whereby pulse signals GB and of opposite phases are produced.The signals and are fed to AND gates 13a, 13b together with the sampling pulse signals . The AND gates 13a, 13b, therefore, produce outputs QD and shown in Fig. 3 if which serve as sample clocks. The sample clocks are then fed to sample holding circuits 14a, 14b which have the same construction as shown in Fig. 2A. Since signal inputs ii are fed to the data terminals of the sample holding circuits 14a, 14b, sample holding signals , shown in Fig. 3 OG are produced responsive to the outputs of the AND gates 13a, 13b, i.e., responsive to the sampling clocks. The signals , are transmitted through separate circuits or are recorded in the recording tracks denoted by 2 in Fig. 1 . In this case, the band of the transmission paths or of the recording tracks needs to be one half the maximum freque,ncy of the signals i. The reasons will be described later.It will be noted that the present invention is advantageous with regard to the fact that the band does not need to cover the maximum frequency Fm of the signals QF. The signals transmitted through the transmission paths or the signals , read from the recording tracks are fed to band pass filters 15a, 15b and to low pass filters 16a, 16b. Here, the central frequency of the band pass filters 15a, 15b is Fs 2, and the low pass filters 16a, 16b have a cut off frequency of 1 4 Fs. The transmission paths 2 have a band Fs 4, as well as a component Fs 2, though Fs 2 is attenuated to a considerable degree. The signal component Fs 2 is extracted by the band pass filters 15a, 15b, as shown in , of Fig. 3. On the other hand, sampled pulses which are transmitted through the transmission paths, or which are read from the recording tracks, are maintained for their amplitude.Therefore, outputs of the low pass filters 16a, 16b are enveloped by broken lines, as shown in the diagrams and t in Fig. 3 Q, Q. From the sampling theorem, these signals form envelopes of the sampling pulse series ofFs 2. Therefore, the maximum frequency component is Fs 4. It will, therefore, be comprehended that the band of the transmission paths or the recording tracks must be Fs 4.The signals GI, G . of envelopes are then fed to sample holding circuits 17a, 17b which produce pulse trains e as shown in Fig. 3 , , that are sampled and held by the reproduced sampling clocks , tis. These pulse trains , are fed to the synthesizing circuit 18 and are synthesized in time series to form a train of pulse signals, as shown in Fig. 3 3. Here, the repetitive frequency of the train of pulse signals is Fs.By passing the signals through a low pass filter 19 having a cut off frequency Fs 2, therefore, it is possible to reproduce the decoded output signals shown in Fig. 3 , whicharethesameastheoriginalsignals havinga maximum frequency component Fs 2. Fig. 4 shows a block diagram of the circuit of another embodiment of the present invention. In the embodiment shown in Fig. 4, an analog signal, having the frequency component of the maximum frequency Fm, is sampled by one sampling pulse, the sampled pulse series is separated into two pulse series, and the separated pulse series are transmitted by two transmission lines or stored in two memory regions. In another embodiment, the decoder is formed the same as shown in Fig. 1 therefore, the explanation is not repeated, and in Fig. 4, the decoder is not shown. In Fig. 4, a sample hold circuit 21 has inputs for receiving the signal input and the sampling pulse f5 , so that the input data are sampled by the sampling pulse f and said sample hold circuit 21 outputs the sampled pulse series. These sampling pulses f shown in Fig. 5 QC are formed, for example as shown in Fig. 4, by adding, in the AND gate, the output of a rectangular pulse generator, as shown inFig. 5 , and the output, as shown inFig. 5 , which is obtained by delaying the output of the rectangular pulse generator in a delay circuit 22 and by inverting the output of the delay circuit 22 in an inverter 23. The sampling pulse series obtained as the output of the sample hold circuit 21 is supplied to separating gate circuits 26a, 26b, so as to be separated into two sampling series, and the outputs of the separating gate circuits 26a and 26b are supplied to the transmission circuit or the memory regions 2.The separating gete pulses and as shown in Fig. 5 which are supplied to the separating gate circuits 26a, 26b are obtained as the output of a flip flop circuit 25, for example, as shown in Fig. 4, by applying the output of the rectangular pulse generator, shown in Fig. 5 , to a flip flop circuit 25, which is operated at a fall time of the output of the rectangular pulse generator shown in Fig. 5 The embodiment shown in Fig. 4 can produce the same effect as the circuit shown in Fig. 1. As mentioned above, according to the present invention, the analog signal is separated into a plurality of pulse series which are transmitted to the transmission lines or which are supplied to the memory regions. Therefore, the transmission lines or the memory regions having small frequency bands can be used therefore, a great industrial advantage can be obtained. Further, in the explanation above, the analog signal is divided into two pulse series however, it is, of course, possible to have a case where the analog signal is divided into more than two pulse series.