# Concrete products.

## Abstract
Concrete product such as a building block or tile paving element having a thermoplastic or thermosetting continuous or non continuous coating to render the product less sus ceptible to discolouration and erosion. Methods of treating a concrete product with such coatings by applying coatings to simultaneously or prior heated concrete products are also disclosed. The coating material may be applied as powder, aqueous dispersion or by dipping the product in liquid coating material.

## Claims
Cloims 1. A concrete building product characterised in that it has a surface coated with a heat sensitive thermoplastic or thermosetting resinous material which is solid at normal climotic temperatures. 2. A concrete building product as claimed in claim 1 characterised in that the thermosetting resinous material comprises at least one resin selected from epoxy resins. 3. A concrete building product as cloimed in claim 1 characterised in that the thermosetting resinous material comprises at least one resin selected from polyester resins. 4. A concrete building product as claimed in claim 1 characterised in thot the thermoplastic moterial comprises polyethylene. 5. A concrete building product as claimed in claim 1 characterised in that the thermoplastic material comprises polyurethane. 6. A concrete building product as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 characterised in that the cooting of the heat sensitive material is composed of a plurality of discrete areas of heat sensitive material. 7. A method of protecting a concrete building product as charoc terised by the steps of applying a heat sensitive thermoplastic or thermosetting material to the product during or subsequent to heating of the material to form a protective coating. 8. A method of protecting a concrete building product as claimed in claim 7 characterised in that the product is heated prior to the application of the heat sensitive material so that the said material is adequately heated after its application. 9. A method of protecting a concrete building product as claimed in claim 7 or 8 characterised in that powdered or granular particles are blown onto the surfoce of the concrete building product by a compressed fluid.

## Description
concrete Products The invention relates to the treatment of concrete products to prevent discolourction in use and is especially, but not exclusively, applicable to the treatment of bricks, roofing tiles anj similar concrete products used for external building applications, also floostones and interlocking or plain paviors. The term concrete is used herein to include calcium silicate sand lime products. concrete products used for externol building applications, such as roof tiles, are subjected to discolouration by efflorescence, surface etctling and industrial atmospheric pollution.Efflorescence arises from the formation of a white film of mainly calcium carbonate on the surface of concrete products, normally during te marly part of their life. This formation maSks tie face of pigmented products giving rise to a tenporary loss of colour until tie fit itself is finally weathered away. Surface etching is a phenomenon arising from direct physical attock of the surface of tic concrete by the elements, predominantly rain and fr st.This results in a gradual small scale erosion of the surface, the smallest particles, which. are usually the pigments used to colour the article, being removed first thereby gradually revealing the self olour of the cement, sand or lime particles used to produce th2 product. Atmospheric pollution arises from t absorption by porous concrete products of dust, soot and other pollutants deposited from the otmosphere, principally by being brought down by rain.All these effects have the result of produ ing discolourotion of exposed bui3ding products pigmented by co ventio ol techiniques and it is an object of the present invention to provide a product which is less susceptible to discolouration than those hitherto produced. We have now found that discolouration can be reduced or prevented by the application to concrete building products of a surface treatment consisting of applying to the surface selected synthetic resinous or plostics material to produce a hard surface coating an the product. Accordingly the invention provides in one of its aspects a concrete building product the surface of which is coated with o heat sensitive materiol which is solid at normal climatic teroperatures. The coating may be applied to pigmented or non pigmented products and the heat sensitive material moy itself be pigmented of nonpigmented dependent on requirements. The heat sensitive material moy be for example a thermoplastic material or a thermo setting resinous material. The preferred thermosetting resins ore epoxy resins or polyester resins but many other thermosetting resins and combinations of thermosetting resins may be used. The preferred thermoplastics materials are polyethylene or polyurethene but many other thermoplastics materials and combinotions of thermoplastics materials may be used. The invention provides in another of its aspects a method of protecting a concrete building product comprising the steps of applying a heat sensitive material to the product during or subsequent to heating of the moterial to form a protective coating on the surface of the product. The heat sensitive moterial normally in powder or granule forn, may be applied to the surface of the concrete product in any convenient manner and is heated during or after application to bond it securely to the surface of the concrete product being treated. The heating temperature and time are selected to allow the material to melt, flow and penetrate and on subsequent cooling harden and adhere to the surface of the concrete product. It is preferred that the concrete product should be pigmented in the body and the surface coating of heat sensitive material appropriately pigmented. Non pigmented heat sensitive materials however may be applied to the surface of pigmented concrete products where it is desired to protect the products from surface defects while retaining and intensifying the colour of the pigmented concrete product. Pigmented surface coatings of the heat sensitive material may also be applied to non pigmented concrete products although this may result in blemishes should the surface be chipped prior to laying revealing the non pigmented surface. In one arrangement a pigmented or non pigmented thermosetting resin is applied to the surface of a concrete product by meons of a f ame gun which serves to heat and apply the resin simultaneously and eliminate the need for subsequent heating to effect curing of the resin. The resin is supplied to the flame gun in powdered or granular form. Thermoplastic material may also be used in such an arrangement. In an alternative technique the heat sensitive material moy be applied by means of an electrostatic powder gun in which a charge is induced on the surface of the particles of heat sensitive material in powder or granular form passing through the gun such tat the particles adhere to the earthed surface of the concrete product. Powdered or granular particles may ternatively be blown on to the surface of the product by compressed air or steam.In a further embodiment the surface of tie product moy be sprayed with an aqueous dispersion of the powdered heat sensitive material using suitable spraying equipment,Alternatively the product may be dipped into an aqueous dispersion of the powdered heat sensitive materia . The coating nay lternatively be applied by dipping the product into aeroted or fluidised beds of the heat sensitive material in powder or granu or form or the material may be sprinkled on to the surface of the product either direct or via a roller. In most cases it is necessary aftcr application of the resin cooting to effect heating at clevated temperatvres. This, in the erse of thermosetting resinous material is to cure it, and in the se of thermo lestics moteriol is to melt it. This nay be effected by direct or indirect heating using gas, electricity, oil, solid fuel, sunerheat d steam, minerol oil heating systems, infra red r cro wave hecting elements. Preferably the coating is applied to rchcated concrete product. The application of heat sensitive material coatings to concrete product in t le tenner described protects the surface of the product fro surfcce etching and atmospheric pollution and has also been found to reduce or prevent colour masking of the surface by efflorescence. The coating applied to the concrete product may be of various thicknesses, the preferred thickness is just sufficient to provide on odequate seal agoinst the ingress of water. In so pretecting the surface it also provides a cosmetic coating which produces a coloured concrete product of greoter long term permanence and uniformity. T ,e coating material, especially if it is a resin, nay be chosen so tat n application it leaves a matt or gloss finnish.In the latter case the coating will be thicker than in the former case where the coating may comprise a plurality of globules of coating which r,cy be nicroscopically discontinuous. In this way the originel appearance of the concrete is maintained. The tern heat sensitive as used herein earns softened initially by heat and after subsequent cooling rendered solid and is intended to embrcce thermoplastic materials and thermosetting resinous materials.