# Ignition timing control.

## Abstract
In an automotive ignition system for a spark ignited internal combustion engine a programmed timing control 24 controls the occurrence of timing signals relative to engine position in systematic relation to engine speed to provide such spark at a time appropriate for a first fuel at each engine speed. An alternative fuel timing control 22, 10 produces a controlled timing interval systematically related to engine speed and changes the timing of such spark by the controlled timing interval to provide such spark at a time appropriate for a second fuel at each respective engine speed. A variable dwell control 40 provides a dwell control signal for controlling the application of current to the ignition coil 16 . A signal generator coupled to the timing means generates a time varying signal rising in magnitude substantially monotonically and preferably linearly with time following each interruption of such current until a later time corresponding to the next succeeding interruption of such current. A reference signal generator responds to the magnitude of the time varying signal at each interruption of the current to produce a dwell reference signal of magnitude a predetermined differential less than the magnitude of said time varying signal at such interruption. The differential is preferably constant at moderate engine speeds and varies inversely with speed at high and low speeds. A comparator compares the time varying signal with the dwell reference signal and produces the dwell control signal when the time varying signal substantially reaches the magnitude of the dwell reference signal. The dwell control signal is advanced upon misfire.