# N substituted azaheterocyclic carboxylic acids and their esters.

## Abstract
N Substituted azaheterocyclic carboxylic acids and their esters, of the formula

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A compound of the formula 0 EMI23.1 wherein n is a positive whole integer 2, 3 or 4 m is zero R4 is hydrogen, or lower alkyl of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms the dotted line represents an optional bond R5 is hydrogen, or hydroxy, or when the dotted line forms a double bond, hydrogen B isEMI23.2 wherein R1 is hydrogen, fluorine, chlorine, methyl or methoxy Y is C A C R3 , CHEMI23.3 CHR3 in which case n is 3 or 4, or CC ,whereAn R2 is hydrogen, fluorine, chlorine, methyl or methoxy, R1 is hydrogen or methyl, and A isEMI23.4 2 thienyl, 3 thienyl or cyclohexyl or B Y is cyclohexyl 2C C R3 or when Y is a C A C R3 m may also be one or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof. 2. A compound represented by one of the formulas EMI24.1 wherein A is cyclohexyl EMI24.2 2 thienyl, 3 thienyl or R1 and R2, which are the same or different, are hydrogen, fluorine, chlorine, methyl or methoxy R3 is hydrogen or methyl n is a positive whole integer 2, 3 or 4 m is a positive whole integer 0 or 1 R4 is hydrogen or lower alkyl of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms the dotted line represents an optional double bond, when m is 0 and R5 is hydrogen or hydroxy, or when there is a double bond, hydrogen EMI24.3 FOREllLA II wherein R1, R2, R3, R4 and R5, and the dotted line, are as defined above for formula I, and n is a positive whole integer 3 or 4 EMI25.1 R RItJLA III wherein R11 R4, R5, n and the dotted line are as defined above for formula I and cyclohexyl 2C EMI25.2 FORMULA IV wherein R3, R4, R5, n and the dotted line are as defined above for formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof. 3. A compound according to claim 2 having formulaI in which A isEMI25.3 2 thienyl or cyclohexyl, R1 and R2 are hydrogen, fluorine, chlorine, methyl or methoxy, R3 and R4 are hydrogen, R5 is hydrogen, with and without the double bond, or hydroxy, m is 0, and n is 2 4. A compound according to claim 2 of any of the formulae I to III wherein m is zero, A isEMI25.4 andR1, R2, R3, R4, R5, n and the dotted line are as defined in claim 2. 5. A compound according to claim 2 having formula II in which R1 and R2 are hydrogen, fluorine, chlorine, methyl or methoxy, R3 and R4 are hydrogen and n is 3. 6. A compound according to claim 2 having formula III in which R1 is hydrogen, fluorine, chlorine, methyl or methoxy, R4 is hydrogen and n is 2. 7. A compound according to any of claims 1 to 6 in the form of a separated geometrical and or optical isomer. 8. A compound according to claim 1 which is 1 4,4 diphenyl 3 butenyl 3 piperidinecarboxylic acid or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof, l E Z 4 4 fluorophenyl 4 phenyl 3 butenyl 3 piperidinecarboxylic acid or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof, 1,2,5,6 tetrahydro 1 4,4 diphenyl 3 butenyl 3 pyridinecarboxylic acid or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof,. l E Z 4 4 chlorophenyl 4 phenyl 3 butenyl 1,2,5,6 tetrahydro 3 pyridinecarboxylic acid or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof, l E Z 4 3 chlorophenyl 4 phenyl 3 butenyl 1,2,5,6 tetrahydro 3 pyridinecarboxylic acid or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof, l 4,4 diphenyl 3 butenyl cis 4 hydroxy 3 piperidine c arboxylic acid or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof, l E Z 4 3 methoxyphenyl 4 phenyl 3 butenyl 3 piperidinecarboxylic acid or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof, l E Z 4 3 methylphenyl 4 phenyl 3 butenyl 3 piperidinecarboxylic acid or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof, l E Z 4 4 methylphenyl 4 phenyl 3 butenyl 3 piperidinecarboxylic acid or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof, 1 4,4 bis 4 chlorophenyl 3 butenyl 3 piperidine carboxylic acid or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof, l Z 4 cyclohexyl 4 phenyl 3 butenyl 3 piperidine carboxylic acid or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof, l E Z 4 phenyl 4 2 thienyl 3 butenyl 3 piperidinecarboxylic acid or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof, l 4,4 diphenyl 3 butenyl 3 piperidineacetic acid or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof, 1 e,4 dicyclohexyl 3 butenyl 3 piperidinecarboxlic acid or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof, RTI ID 27.5 1 4,4 diphenyl 3 butenyl 3 piperidinecarboxylic acid hydrochloride, or 1,2,5,6 tetrahydro 1 4,4 diphenyl 3 butenyl 3 pyridinecarboxylic acid hydrocloride. 9. A pharmaceutical composition for inhibiting GABA uptake in dosage unit form comprising a pharmaceutical carrier and an amount sufficient to produce said inhibition of a compound of claim 2 or claim 8 or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof. 10. A process for the preparation of a compound according to claim 1 which comprises the reaction of anN alkylating derivative of the formula B Y CHZ X with an ester of an N substituted azaheterocyclic carboxylic acid of the formula EMI27.1 wherein B, Y, n, R5, m and the dotted line are as defined in claim 1 X is a leaving group R4 is lower alkyl of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, in the presence of an alkali metal carbonate and to obtain the free acid product, hydrolysing the ester under acidic or basic conditions, and optionally thereafter i forming a compound of the formula II by the catalytic hydrogenation of a corresponding compound of the formula I , ii forming a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt.

## Description
N SUBSTITUTED AZAHETEROCYCLIC CARBOXYLIC ACIDS AND THEIR ESTERS This invention relates to novel N substltjted azaheterocyclic carboxylic acids and their esters which are useful as inhibitors of neuronal and or glial gamma amino butyric acid GABA uptake. GABA is a major inhibitory neurotransmitter of the central nervous system and is released into the synapse on nerve stimulation where it can modulate the activity of other neurons. its actions are terminated primarily by uptake into the nerve terminal or into glial cells.Thus, inhibitors of neuronal and or glial uptake of GABA would selectively enhance the activity of synaticlly released GABA by retarding the rate at which It is removed from the snapse. Enhancement of gavergic active vity would be useful in the treatment of anxiety, epilepsy, muscular and movement disorders and mental and emotional disorders. Furthermore, these compounds may have analgesic and sedative effects as well. The compounds of this invention are represented by the following general structural formulas EMI2.1 wherein A represents or cyclohexyl EMI2.2 2 thienyl, 3 thienyl R1 and R2, which are the same or different, represent hydrogen, fluorine, chlorine, methyl or methoxy R3 represents hydrogen or methyl n is a positive whole integer 2, 3 or 4 m is a positive whole integer 0 or 1 R4 represents hydrogen or lower alkyl of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms the dotted line represents an optional double bond, when m is 0 and R represents hydrogen or hydroxy, or when there is a double bond, hydrogen EMI2.3 wherein R1, R2, R3, R4 and R5, and the dotted line, are as defined above for formula I and n is a positive whole integer 3 or 4 EMI3.1 FORMULA ITI wherein R1, R41 R5, n and the dotted line are as defined above for formula I and cyclohexyl 2CEMI3.2 wherein FORMULA IV R , R5, R5, n and the dotted line are as defined above for formula I. Particular compounds of this invention represented by formula I above are when A is 2 thienyl or cyclohexyl R1 andEMI3.3 R2 are hydrogen, fluorine, chlorine, methyl or methoxy, 23 and R4 are hydrogen, R is hydrogen with and without the double bond or cis hydroxy, m is 0, and n is 2 represented by formula II above are when R1 and R2 are hydrogen, fluorine, chlorine, methyl or methoxy, R3 and R4 are hydrogen and n is 3 and represented by formula III above are when 21 is hydrogen, fluorine, chlorine, methyl or methoxy, R4 is hydrogen and n is 2. The pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts having the utility of the zwitterions of formulas I IV above, prepared by methods well known to the art, are formed with both inorganic or organic acids, for example maleic, fumaric, benzoic, ascorbic, pamoic, succinic, bismethylenesalicylic, methanesulfonic, ethanedisulfonic, acetic, oxalic, propionic, tartaric, salicylic, citric, gluconic, lactic, malic, mandelic, cinnamic, citraconic, aspartic, stearic, palmitic, itaconic, glycolic, p amlnobenzoic, glutamic, theophylline ascetic, benzenesulfonlc, hydro chloric, hydrobromic, sulfuric, cyclohexylsulfamic, phosphoric and nitric acids. Compounds of this invention may exist as geometric or optical isomers and it is intended to include herein all such isomers and mixtures thereof. The isomers may be separated by standard chromatographic or resolution techniques known to the art. Alternatively an optical active ester of an N unsubstitu.ed azaheterocyclic carboxylic acid may be employed as a starting material in the reactions described hereinbelow to provide the resolved optical isomers. The compounds of formula I are conveniently prepared by reaction of an N alkylating derivative with an ester of an N unsubstituted azaheterocyclic carboxylic acid as shown in the following scheme EMI4.1 in which A, R1, R2, R3, e, the dotted line, m and n are as defined above for formula I, X is a reactive leaving group preferably halo, for example bromo, or tosyl and R4 is lower alkyl of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms.Thus, a disubstituted alkenyl halide is reacted with the ester, preferably in an inert organic solvent in which the reactants are soluble such as acetone or dimethylformamide, in the presence of an alkali mental carbonate such as potassium carbonate, at reflux temperature for from 8 to 48 ours. To obtain the free acid the ester product is hydroxy lyzed under acidic fr basic conditions, such as refluxing in concentrated hydrochloric acid for from 12 to 18 hours or refluxing in a sodium hydroxide methanol water solution for from 1 2 to 4 hours. The disubstituted alkenyl bromide starting material is obtained from an appropriasely substitute phenol ketone by reaction with a Grignard reagent ollowed by treatment with hydrogen bromide in acetic acid solution. The compounds of formula II above are similarly prepared by reaction of an ester of an N únsubstituted azaheterocyclic carboxylic acid with either a diphenyl alkyl moiety, substituted with a halo or other leaving group or, for example by catalytic hydrogenation, such as it palladIum on charcoal, of the olefinic double bond in the side chain of an appropriate compound of formula I. The compounds of formula Ill above are prepared by reaction of an ester of an N unsubstit tea azaheterocyclic carboxylic acid with a reactive ester of an appropriately substituted phenyl alkyne, substituted with a leaving grow such as a tosyl group, similarly in the presence of an alKali metal carbonate such as potassium carbonate. The compounds of formula IV above are similarly prepared by reaction of an ester of an N unsubstituted azaheterocyclic carboxylic acid with a dicyclohexyl substituted alkenyl halide. The free acids of formulas II, III and IV are similarly obtained by hydrolysis of the esters under acidic or basic conditions as described above. The inhibition of GABA uptake produced by the compounds of this invention is measured by the ability of the active medicament to inhibit 3H GABA uptake by a crude synaptosomal fraction p2 of the rat brain. In this test system, aliquots of the P2 suspension are preincubated in 0 a buffered physiological medium at 37 C in the presence of test compound for 15 minutes. Uptake is initiated by the addition of 3H GABA to a final concentration of 1 uiK and terminated by filtration through a 0.45 um illipore filter.Incubation time is 3 minutes. A compound producing a 50 or greater inhibition of GABA uptake at concentrations f 10 vM is considered to show biosignificant activity. The 1050 value is the concentration of a compound producing a 508 inhibition of GABA accumulation. For example, a particular compound of this invention, 1 4,4 dipbenyl 3 butenyl 3 piperidinecarboxylic acid has an IC50 of 0.2 uM. Similarly, 1 E Z 4 4 fluorophenyl 4 pheny 3 butenyl 3 piperidinecarboxylic acid has an IC50 of 0.283 MM 1,2,5,6 tetrahydro 1 4,4 diphenyl 3 butenyl 3 pyridine carboxylic acid has an IC50 of 0.207 M l E Z 4 4 chlorophenyl 4 phenyl 3 butenyl 1,2,5, 6, tetrahydro 3 pyridinecarboxylic acid has an 1050 of 0.358 M 1 E Z 4 3 chlorosphenyl 4 phenyl 3 butenyl 1,2,5,6, tetrahydro 3 pyridinecarboxylic acid has an IC50 of 0.280 uM l 4,4 diphenyl 3 butenyl cis 4 hvdroxy 3 piperidinecarboxylic acid has an IC50 of 0.264 sM 1 4 phenyl 4 2 thienyl 3 butenyl 3 piperidinecarboxylic acid has an ICDo of 0.167 XM and 1 Z 4 cyclohexyl 4 phenyl 3 butenyl 3 piperidine carboxylic acid has an 1050 of 0.179 uM. The selectivity of the inhibition of GABA uptake by the compounds of this invention is demonstrated by the lack of significant inhibition of 3H norepinephrine and or 3H serotonin uptake, the lack of activity in displacing 3H muscimol or 3H diazepam binding, or in noradrenergic, serotonergic, dopaminergic and cholinergic binding assays and the lack of significan. reduction in the activity of glutamic acid decarboxylase GAD and GABA tr ansaminase GA3A T , at concentrations which inhibit GABA uptake by 50 . in vivoenhancement of GABA activity is demonstrated by potentiation of contralateral rotation in rats induced by unilateral injection of GABA into the cars reticulata of te substantia nigra. Compounds active in tne in vitro test described above are tested by systemic administration for their ability to penetrate the central nervous system and potentiate the rotation induced by GABA.In this procedure 1 4,4 diphenyl 3 butenyl 3 piperidine carboxylic acid was significantly active at doses from 2.5 to 40.0 mg kg, I.P. The compounds of this invention may be administered as pharmaceutical compositions in conventional dosage unit forms. These composltions which form a part of this invention are prepared by incorporating a compound of formulas I,II, III or IV, or a phar naceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof, in a nontoxic amount suf icient to produce inhibition of GABA uptake in an animal sb7ect, with a nontoxic pharmaceutical carrier according to accepted procedures. Preferably the compositions will contain the active ingredient in an active but nontoxic amount selected from about 50 mg. to about 1000 mg. of active ingredient per dosage unit. The pharmaceutical carrier employed may be, for example, either a solid or liquid, giving rise to a wide variety of pharmaceutical forms. If a solid pharmaceutical carrier is used, such as lactose, magnesium stearate, terra alba, sucrose, talc, stearic acid, gelatin, agar, pectin, acacia and the like, the composition can be tableted, used as a pharmaceutical powder, placed in a hard gelatin capsule or in the form of a troche or lozenge. The amount of solid carrier will vary widely but preferably will be from about 25 mg. to about 1 g. If a liquid pharmaceutical carrier is used, such as syrup, peanut oil, olive oil, sesame oil, propylene glycol, polyethylene glycol, water and the lil, the composition will be in the form of a soft gelatin capsule, syrup, emulsion or a liquid suspension.Similarly te carrier or diluent may include a time delay material such as glyceryl monostearate or glyceryl istea ate alone or with a wax. The pharmaceutical preparations are made following the conventional techniques of the pharmaceutical chemist involving mixing, granulating and compressing when necessary, or variously mixing and dissolving the ingredients as appro priate to give the desired end product. To produce inhibition of GABA uptake, a compound of formulas I, II, III or IV, or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof, usually combined with a pharmaceutical carrier, is administered internally to an animal subject in need of such inhibiion in a non toxic amount sufficient to produce said inhibition. The route of administration may be oral or parentera . Advantageously equal doses will be administered until a desired effect Is obtained, for example 2 or 3 times a day, with the daily dosage regimen being selected from about 150 mg. to about 2000 mg. of active Ingredient. The following examples illustrate the preparation of specific compounds and pharmaceutical compositions of this invention and as such are not to be construed as limitations thereof. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that other modifications of the synthetic procedures described and the use of alternative starting materials may also be employed to prepare the compounds of formulas I, II, III or IV. EXAMPLE 1 A mixture of 14.4 g. 0.05 mole of 4,4 diphenyl 3butenyl bromide, 0.05 mole of 3 piperidinecarboxylic acid ethyl ester, 0.1 mole of potassium carbonate and 0.2 g. of potassium iodide in 150 ml. of acetone was re uxed wit stirring under nitrogen for 20 hours. The cooled reaction mixture was filtered, the filtrate made acidic wIth hydrogen chloride and the latter concentrated in vacuo to about 75 ml.This solution was treated with 30 ml. of ether and chilled overnight at 4 C. The chilled mixture was decanted and the residue washed with ether. Crystallization of the solid from acetone gave l 4,4 diphenyl 3 butenyl 3 piperidinecarboxyic acid ethyl ester, hydrochloride, m.p. 158 1690C. The ethyl ester, hydrochloride salt 12 g., 0.03 mole was refluxed 17 hours in 5N hydrochloric acid. The resulting solution 1z0 ml. was concentrated in vacuo to 35 40 ml., treated with 4 ml. of concentrated hydrochloric acid and chilled for two hours. The mixture was decanted and the solid recrystallized from acetone to give 1 4,4 dipnenyl 3 butenyl 3 piperidinenmrDoxylic acid hydrochloride, m.p. 188 1890C. SAMPLE 2 A mixture of 5.0 g. 0.0282 mole of 1,2,5,6 tetrahydro 3 pyrdinecarboxylic acid methyl ester, hydrochloride, 8.08 g. 0.282 mole of 4,4 diphenvl 3 butenyl bromide and 10 g. of crushed potassium carbonate was refluxed in 200 ml. of acetone for 15 hours. The reaction mixture was evaporated, extracted into ethyl acetate from water, dried, evaporated and chromatographed on silica dry column eluted with hexane hexane ethyl acetate to give 1,2,5,6 tetrahydro 1 4,4 diphenyl 3 butenyl 3 pyridine carboxylic acid methyl ester hydrochloride. The methyl ester 0.0195 mole was dissolved in 100 ml. of methanol, treated with 100 ml. of 40 sodium hydroxide and refluxed for one hour. The reaction mixture was cooled, the methanol was evaporated and the aqueous layer was poured into 500 ml. of water. The solution was extracted with ether, the aqueous layer made acidic with 10 hydrochloric acid and extracted with ethyl acetate The dried extract was evaporated and the solid slurred with ethyl acetate ether to give 1,2,5,6 tetrahycro i 4,4 dipnenyl 3 butenyl 3 pyridinecarboxylic acid hydrochloride. Recrystallization from methanol acetone ether gave m.p. 178 18G C. EXAMPLE 3 To a suspension of 4.56 g. 0.188 mole of magnesium turnings in 20 ml. of tetrahydrofuran under argon was added dropwise 25 g. 0.208 mole of cyclopropyl bromide in 50 ml. of dried tetrahydrofuran and the mixture refluxed for two hours. The reaction mixture was cooled and 20.3 g. 0.094 mole of 4 chlorobenzohenone in 50 ml. of dry tetrahydrofuran was added dropwise. After refluxing for one hour the mixture was cooled in an ice bath and 130 ml.of concentrated ammonium chloride solution was added carefully. The resulting solution was poured into water, extracted with ether and the ether extract was washed with water, dried and evaporated. The residual oil was dissolved In 200 ml. of acetic acid and treated at 200C. with 100 ml. of acetic acid and 50 ml. of 48 hydrobromic acid. The mixture was stirred, wit cooling, for 30 minutes, poured into 1 1. of water and extracted with ether. The extract was washed with water, dried, evaporated and distilled in vacuo to give E Z 4 4 chltroshenyl 4 phenyl 3 butenyl bromide, b.p. 203 2130C. 0.4 0.5 mm. . A mixture of 5.0 g. 0.0282 mole of 1,2,5,6 tetrahydro 3 pyridinecarboxylic acid methyl ester hydrochloride, 9.0 g. 0.0282 mole of the butenyl bromide prepared above and 10 g. 0.0725 mole of potassium carbonate in 200 ml. of acetone was refluxed for 15 hours. The reaction mixture was evaporated, partitioned between water and ethyl acetate and the organic layer was washed with water, dried, evaporated and chromatographed on silica dry column to give l E Z 4 4 chloropnenyl 4 phenyl 3 butenyl 1,2,5,6 tetrahydro 3 pyridinecarboxylic acid methyl ester. The methyl ester 1.0 g., 0.0026 mole was refluxed in 50 ml. of methanol and 20 ml. of 40 sodium hydroxide solution for one hour.The mixture was cooled, the methanol removed and the aqueous layer was acidified with 10 hydro chloric acid. The resulting solution was extracted with methyl acetate and the dried extract evaporated to give a solid which on recrystall zation from ethyl acetate afforded 1 E Z 4 4 chlorophenyl 4 phenyl 3 butenyl 1,2,5,6 tetrahydro 3 pyridinecarboxylic acid hydrochloride, m.p. 207 2090C. EXAMPLE 4 To a suspension of 6.4 g. 0.266 mole of magnesium turnings in 50 ml. of tetrahydrofuran was added dropwise 51 g. 0.268 mole of 3 bromochlorobenzene in 100 ml. of dried Letrahydrofuran and the mixture refluxed for one hour. The cooled reaction mixture was added to 2.4 g. 0.266 mole of benzonitrile in 100 ml. of tetrahydrofuran and refluxed for one hour. The reaction mixture was poured carefullv ifltO lOC ml. or Xce water and 10 ml. of concentrated sururlc acid and heated on a steam bath for 30 minutes.The solution was cooled, extracted with ether, washed with water and 5 sodium bicarbonate solution, dried, evaporated and chromatographed to give 3 chlorobenzophenone recrystallized from methanol , m.p. 83 C. A solution of 25 g. 0.208 mole of cyclopropyl bromide in 50 ml. of dried tetrahydrofuran was added to 4.57 g. 0.188 mole of magnesium turnings in 20 ml. of tetrahydrofuran and the mixture refluxed for one hour. To the cooled reaction mixture was added dropwise 21 g. 0.097 mole of 3 chlorobenzophenone and the mixture refluxed for 30 minutes. The cooled reaction mixture was treated carefully with 100 ml. of concentrated ammonium chloride solution, poured into water, extracted with ether, washed with water, dried and evaporated. The residue was dissolved In 200 ml. of acetic acid at 20 C. and a solution of 100 ml. of acetic acid and 50 ml. of 48 hydrobromic acid was added in one portion. The resulting solution was stirred for 30 minutes in an ice bath, poured into 1 1. of water, extracted with ether, washed with water, dried, evaporated and distilled in vacuo to give E Z 4 3 chlorophenyl 4 phenyl 3 butenyl bromide, b.. 184 1880C. 0.4 0.5 mm. . A mixture of 2.5 g. 0.0141 mole of 1,2,5,6 tetrahydro 3 pyridinecarboxylic acid methyl ester, hydrochloride, 3.6 g. 0.011 mole of the butenyl bromide prepared above and 5 g. 0.0363 mole of potassium carbonate in 100 ml. of acetone was refluxed for 15 hours. The solvent was removed from the reaction mixture and the residue suspended in water. The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate and the extract dried, evaporated and chromatographed on silica to give 1 E Z 4 31 chloro phenyl 4 phenyl 3 butenylj l,2,5,6 tetrahydro 3 pyridine carboxylic acid methyl ester. The methyl ester 2 g., 0.0053 mole in 50 ml. of methanol and lC0 ml. of 5 sodium hydroxide solution was refluxed for 30 minutes. The reaction mixture was cooled, acidified with 10 hydrochloric acid and extracted with ethyl acetate. The dried extract was evaporated and the solid recrystallized from acetone ethyl acetate to yield l E Z 4 3 chlorownenyl 4 phenyl 3 buteny l 1,2,5,o tetrahydro 3 pyridinecarboxylic acid methyl ester hydrochloride, m.p. 206 C. EXAMPLE S To a solution of cyclopropyl magnesium bromide prepared from 18 g., 0.15 mole, of cyclopropyl bromide and 0.15 mole of magnesium turnings in 100 ml. of dry tetrahydrofuran at 35 0C. was added 20 g. 0.1 mole of 4 fluorobenzophenone in 50 ml. of dry tetrahydrofuran and the mixture refluxed for four hours under nitrogen. To the cooled, stirred reaction mixture was added 50 ml. of saturated ammonium chloride solution followed by 150 ml. of water and 200 ml. of ether. The organic layer was washed with water, dried and evaporated.The residue was dissolved in 300 ml. of glacial acetic acid at 10 C. and a solution of 21 g. of hydrogen bromide in 150 ml. of glacial acetic acid was added. The mixture was stirred at about 15 C. for one hour, toured into 600 ml. of ice water and extracted with ether. The extract was washed with water and then 5 sodium bicarbonate solution. The dried solution was evaporated in vacuo and the residue distilled to give E Z 4 4 fluorophenyl 4 phenyl 3 butenyl bromide, b.p. 14 1500. 0.6 0.8 mm. . A mixture of 15.1 g. 0.05 mole of the butenyl bromide prepared above, 7.9 g. 0.05 mole of 3 pioerldne carboxylic acid ethyl ester, 13.8 g. 0.1 mole of potassium carbonate and 0.2 g. of potassium iodide in 200 ml. of acetone was refluxed for 17 hours. The reaction mixture was filtered and the filtrate evaporated. The residue was taken up in 200 ml. of ether and 100 ml. of water. The ether layer was washed with water, dried and treated witn ory hydrogen chloride to yield, after recrystallization from acetone, 1 E Z 4 4 fluorophenyl 4 phenyl 3 butenyl 3 piperidine carboxylic acid ethyl ester hycrochloride, m.p. 107 1090C. The ethyl ester hydrochloride salt 6.2 g., 0.015 mole was refluxed in 100 ml. of 5N hydrochloric acid for 17 hours. The reaction mixture was evaporated in vacuo and the residue was recrystallized from acetone to give 1 E Z 4 4 fluorophenyl 4 phenyl 3 butenyl 3 piperidinecarboxylic acid hydrochloride, m.p. 179 180 C. EXAMPLE 6 Following the procedures of Example 5, a mixture of 6.5 g. of 4,4 bis 4 fluorophenyl 3 butenyl bromide, 3.2 g. of 3 piperidinecarboxylic acid ethyl ester, 2.7 g. of potassium carbonate and 0.2 g. of potassium iodide in 100 ml. of acetone was refluxed for 24 hours. Similar workup of the reaction mixture gave 1 4,4 bis 4 fluoroshenyl 3 butnyl 3 piperidinecarSoxylic acid ethyl ester, hydrochloride. The ethyl ester hydrochloride salt 2.6 g. was hydrolyzeo in 75 ml. of 5N hydrochloric acid to yIeld 1 4,4 bis 4 fluorophenyl 3 butenyl 3 piperidinecarboxylic acia hydrochoride, m.p. 158 169 C. EXAMPLE 7 To a suspension of 3.9 g. 0.16 mole of magnesium turnings in 300 ml. of dry ether was added dropwise 26.7 g. 0.15 mole of l bromo 4 1nethoxybutane in 80 ml. of ether and the mixture reffluxed for four hours. The reaction rnix ture was cooled and 14.6 g. 0.008 mole of benzophenone in 100 ml. of dry ether was added dropwise. The mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 18 hours, cautiously quenched with water and the ether layer separated.The aqueous aver was extracted with ether and the combined ether extract was dried and concentrated to give l,l diphenyl 5 methoxy 1 pentanol, m.p. 112 115 A mixture of the pentanol prepared as above 8.88 g., 0.0328 mole in 132 nl. of glacial acetic acid and oo ml. of distilled hydrobromlc acid was stirred at ambient temperature for two hours and then refluxed for 90 minutes. The reaction mixture was cooled, diluted with water and extracted with ether. The ether extract was washed with 5 sodium carbonate solution, water, dried and concentrated to obtain an oil which is chromatographed on silica to yield 5,5 diphenyl 4 pentenyl bromide. Following the procedures of Example 5, a mixture of 3.0 g. of the pentenyl bromide, 1.56 g. of 3 piperidinecarboxylic acid ethyl ester and 2.76 g. of Potassium carbonate in 40 ml. of acetone was refluxed for 18 hours to yield upon similar workup l 5,5 diphenyl 4 pentenyl 3 piperidinecarboxylic acid ethyl ester. The ethyl ester 0.6 g. was hydrolyzed in 20 ml.of 6N hydrochloric acid to give l S,5 diphenyl 4 pentenyl 3 piperanecarboxylic acid hydrochloride, m. p. 182 184 C. EXAMPLE 8 A solution of 2.0 g. 0.0053 molej of 1 5,5diphenyl 4 pentenyl 3 piperidinecarboxylic acid ethyl esterIn 100 ml. of ethanol and 200 mg. of 5 palladium on charcoal in 20 ml. of ethanol were hydrogenated on the Parr apparatus for about 6 hours. The reaction mixture was filtered and the filtrate concentrated to an oil, 1 5,5 diphenyl pentyl 3 piperidinecarboxylic acid ethyl ester. The ester 1.5 g. was hydrolyzed in 100 ml. of 6N hydrochloric acid to furnish 1 5,5 diphenylpentyl 3 piperidinecarboxylic acid hydrochloride, m.p. 199 200.5 C. EXAMPLE 9 A solution of 4 phenyl 3 butyn l ol 9.33 g., 0.0638 mole in 78 ml. of pyridine was treated with 24.8 g. 0.128 mole of osyl chloride at 0 C. to give the corre sponding tosylate. The latter 16.0 g., 0.533 mole was fluxed with 0.0534 mole of 3 piperidinecarboxylic acid ethyl ester, 14.72 g. of potassium carbonate and 0.55 g. of potassium iodide in 267 ml. of acetone for 24 hours. Workup as described in Example 1 results in l 4 phenyl 3 butynyl 3 piperidinecarboxylic acid ester hydrochloride, m.p. 973.5 175.5 C. The ester hydrochloride 4.05 g., 0.0126 mole was hydrolyzed in 200 ml. of methanol and 25 ml. of 1.0 N sodium hydroxide 0.025 mole , treated with 13 ml. of 1.0 N hydrochloric acid, evaporated and the residue recrystallized from ethanol ether to give l 4 phenyl 3 butynyl 3piperidinecarboxylic acid, sr..p. 149.5 151 C. EXAMPLE 10 Sodium borohydride 7.4 g., 0.194 mole in 150 ml.of ethanol was added dropwise to an ice cold solution of l benzyl 4 oxo 3 piperidinecarboxylic acid methyl ester 24 g., 0.097 mole in 160 ml. of ethanol under argon. After the addition was complete, the mixture was stirred in the cold for 10 minutes. The reaction mixture was quenched with water, the ethanol was removed in vacuo and the product was extracted into choroform. The extract was drIed and concentrated tD give an oil which was chromatographed on silica gel eluted with 50 50 ethyl acetate cyclohexane. The mixture of cis and trans 1 benzyl 4 hydroxy 3 piperidine carboxylic acid methyl ester was separated by preparatl e high pressure liquid chromatography, elating with 2 methanol in chloroform containing 0.2 ammonium hydroxide. The trans alcohol 3.5 g., 0.0144 mole was converted to its hydrochloride salt, dissolved in 150 ml. of ethanol and 0.7 g. of 10 palladium on charcoal was added.The mixture was hydrgenated at 50 psi. at ambient tempera ture for 1.5 hours. The catalyst was filtered off and the filtrate was concentrated to give trans 4 hydroxy 3 piperi dinecarboxylic acid methyl ester, hydrochloride, m.p. 149 151 C. The trans alcohol hydrochloride 2.3 g., 0.0118 mole and 4.24 g. 0.0148 mole of 4,4 diphenyl 3 butenyl bromide were dissolved in 60 ml. of dimethylformamide and 2 g. of potassium carbonate and 0.3 g. of potassium isie were added. The mixture was refluxed for 18 hours, cooled, poured ito ice 5 sodium bicarbonate solution and extracted wit hexane. The dried organic extract was concentrated and the residue chromatographed on silica to obtain 1 4, diphenyl 3 butenyl trans 4 hydroxy 3 piperidinecarboxyllc acid methyl ester.This ester 1.9 g., 0.0052 mole was hydrolyzed in 50 ml. of hot 6N hydrochloric acid to yield 1 4,4 diphenyl 3 butenyl trans 4 hydroxy 3 piperidine carboxylic acid hydrochloride, m.p. 167 169 C. Similarly, a mixture of 1.63 g 0.00835 mole of cis 4 hydroxy 3 piperidinecarboxylic acid methyl ester, hydrochloride, 3 g. 0.0104 mole of 4,4 diphenyl 3 butenyl bromide, 1.5 g. of potassium carbonate and 0.2 g. of potassium iodide in 50 ml. of dimethylformamide was reacted as described above to give l 4,4 diphenyl 3 butenyl cis 4 hydroxy 3 piperidinecarboxylic acid methyl ester. This ester i.4 g., 0.0038 mole was hydrolyzed in 50 ml. of hot 6N hydrochloric acid to Obtain 1 4,4 diphenyl 3 buetenyl cis 4 hydroxy 3 piperidinecarboxylic aciu hydrochloride, m.p. 174 177 C. EXAMPLE 11 Following the procedures of Example the benzophenones 3 methoxybenzophenone, 3 methylbenzophenone, 4 methylbenzophenone and 4,4 bischlorobenzophenone were converted to the following compounds, respectively l E Z 4 3 methoxvphenyl 4 pheni71 3 butenyl 3 piperidinearboxylic acid hydrochloride, m.p. 159 163 C., 1 E Z 4 3 methylphenyl 4 phenyl 3 butenyl 3 piperidinecarboxylic acid hydrochloride, m.p. 192 193 C. L E Z 4 4 methylphenyl 4 phenvl 3 butenyl 3 piperidincarboxylic acid hydrochloride, m.p. 97 147 C. and 1 4,4 bis 4 chlorophenyl 3 butenvl 3 piOeridine carboxylic acid hydrochloride, m.p. 188 191 C. EXAMPLE 12 Ingredients Mg. per Capsule 1 4,4 diphenyl 3 butengl 50 free base 3 piperidinecarboxylic acid as an acid addition salt Magnesium stearate 2Lactose 200The above ingredients are mixed, passed through a 40 mesh screen, remixed and filled into 2 capsules. EXAMPLE 13 Ingredients Mg. per Tablet 1,2,5,6 tetrahydro 100 1 4,4 dlphenyl 3 butenyl 3 pyridinecarboxylic acid as an acid addition salt Calcium sulfate, dehydrate 75Sucrose 25Starch 15Talc 5Stearic acid 3The sucrose, calcium sulfate and active ingredient are thoroughly mixed and granulated with hot 10 gelatin solution. The wetted mass is passed through a 6 mesh screen directly onto drying trays. The granules are dried at 50 C. and passed through a 20 mesh screen, mixed with the starch, talc and stearic acid, and compressed into tablets. The capsules or tablets preparec as in xamples 12 and 13 are administered internally to an animal subject requiring inhibition of GABA uptake within the dose ranges set forth hereinabove. Similarly other compounds of formulas I, II, III or IV can be formulated in che same manner to give pharmaceutical compositions useful in producing inhibition of GABA uptake. EXAMPLE 14 Following the procedures of Example 1 but employing d 3 piperidinecarboxylic acid ethyl ester and Z 3 piperidinecarboxylic acid ethyl ester each obtained from the corresponding tartrate salt yielded the analogous products d 1 4,4 diphenyl 3 butenyl 3 piperidine carboxylic acid hydrochloride, m.p. 209 2110C., alpha 589 1.0060, TL 2 js 0.790, a 546 0.85 all solutions 5 in methanol and l 4,4 diphenyl 3 butenyl 3 piperidinecarboxylic acid hydrochloride, m.p.209 211 C. alpha 589 1.160, a 25758 1.12 , alpha 546 1.000 all solutions 5 in methanol . EXA slPLM 15 To a solution of 29.5 g. 0.2 mole of cyclopropyl magnesium bromide in 70 ml. of dry tetrahydrofuran was added over 20 minutes 18.8 g. 0.1 mole of cyclohexyl phenol ketone in 70 ml. of dry tetrahydrofuran under nitrogen atmosphere and at 30 C. The resulting mixture was refluxed for two hours, chilled in an ice bath and treated with 180 ml. of saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution and 150 ml. of ether. The dried ether layer was evaporated in vacuo and the residue 18.4 g. was dissolved in 250 ml. of glacial acetic acid. This solution was treated with 200 ml. of 209s hydrogen bromide in glacial acetic acid at 10 15 C. and the mixture was stirred for one hour at this temperature. The reaction mixture was poured into 1 1. of water and extracted with ether. The extract was washed with 5 sodium carbonate solution, dried and evaporated in vacuo to give E Z l cyclohexyl 4 phenyl 3 butenyl bromide, b.p.155 1500C. 0.5 0.9 rim. . A mixture of 14.8 g. 0.05 mole of the butenyl bromide prepared above, 7.8 g., 0.05 mole of 3 piperidinecarboxylic acid ethyl ester, 13.8 g. 0.1 mole of potassium carbonate and 0.2 g. of potassium iodide in 175 ml. of acetone was refluxed under nitrogen for 20 hours.The reaction mixture was filtered and the filtrate was treated with gaseous hydrogen chloride to pH 2. Addition of 100 ml. of ether precipitated 1 E Z 4 cyclohexyl 4 phenyl 3 butenyl 3 piperidinecarboxylic acid ethyl ester hydrochloride, m.p. 97 1070C. The E Z mixture of esters prepared above was recrystallized from acetone and allowed to stand at room temperature for 72 hours. The precipitated E isomer was recrystallized from acetone to melt at 100 1120C. The Z isomer was isolated by concentration of the acetone filtrate and cooling to 50C., m.p. 124 1260C. separated E and Z ethyl ester isomers were reflexed for 17 hours in SN hydrochloric acid. Concentration of te reaction mixtures, followed by recrystallization of the solids from acetone yielded 1 F 4 cyclohexyl 1 pnenyl 3 butenyl 3 piperidinecarboxylic acid hydrochloride, m.p. 155 l560C. and 1 Z 4 cyclohexyl 4 phenyl 3 butenyll 3 piperdinecarboxylic acid hydrochloride, m.p. 187 188 0C. EXAMPLE 15 Following the procedures of Example 15, 9.7 g. 0.05 mole of dicyclohexyl ketone and 14.4 g. 0.1 mole of cyclopropyl magnesium bromide in dry tetrahydrofuran were reacted and the resulting carbinol dissolved in glacial acetic acid was treated with hydrogen bromide to give 4,4 dicyclohexyl 3 butenyl bromide, b.p. 158 171 C. 0.1 mn. . A mixture of the above butenyl bromide 9.7 g., 0.016 mole , 2.6 g. 0.016 mole of 3 pipericinecarboxyllc acic etnyl ester, 4.4 . o potassium carbonate and v.l g.of potassium iodide in 100 ml. of acetone was refluxed for 7 hours. workup of the reaction mixture and similar treat ent with hydrogen chloride yielded 1 4,4 dicyclohexyl 3 butenyl 3 piperidinecarboxylic acid ethyl ester hydro chloride m.p. 143 1450C. The latter 3.9 g., 0.01 mole was refluxed in 100 ml. of 5N hydrochloric acid for 18 hours to yield upon evaporation 1 4,4 dicyclohexyl 3 butenyl 3 piperidinecarboxylic acid hydrochloride, m.p. 183 184 C. EXAMPLE 17 Following the procedures of Example 2, a mixture of 7.9 g. 0.05 mole of 3 piperidineacetic acid methyl ester obtained from the acid by treatment with absolute methanol sulfuric acid , 14.4 g. 0.05 mole of 4,4 diphenyl 3 butenyl bromide and 13.82 g. 0.1 mole of potassium carbonate in 200 ml. of acetone was refluxed for 20 hours, filtered and the filtrate concentrated to give 1 4,4 diphenyl 3 butenyl 3 pipericineacetic acid methyl ester. The later 5.0 g., 0.0137 mole was dissolved in 30 ml. of methanol, 60 ml. of 20e sodium hydroxide solution were added and the mixture was refluxed for one hour. The methanol was evaporated from the reaction mixture and the aqueous solution was extracted with ether.The separated oily layer was dissolved in water, extracted with ether and acidified with concentrated hydro chloric acid to pH 1. The solution was concentrated to dryness and the semi solid dissolves in alcohol, filtered and the filtrate concentrated. This residue was dissolved in water, basified with ammonium hydroxide solution to pH 9 and lyophilized. The residual material was dissolved in chloroform and filtered. The filtrate was dissolved in methanol and a methanolic solution of maleic acid was added. Ether was added and after standing there was obtained 1 4, 4 diphenyl 3 butenyl 3 piperidineacetic acid maleate, m.p. 178 180 C. EXAMPLE 18 Following the procedures of Examples 15 and 17, 9.4 g. 0.050 mole of phenyl 2 thienyl keiDone and cyclopropyl magnesium bromide obtained from 2.43 g. of magnesium and 13.3 g. of cyclopropyl bromide in tetrahydrofuran were refluxed for two hours to give the corresponding cyclopropyl carbinol which is treated with 48 hydrobromic acid in glacial acetic acid to furnish E z 4 phenyl 4 2 thienyl 3 butenyl bromide, b.p. 86 960G. 0.015 0.025 mm. .The latter 6.52 g. with a mixture of 3 piperidinecarboxylic acid ethyl ester 22.2 mmole , potassium carbonate and potassium iodide in 110 ml. of acetone was refluxed for 48 hours. The reaction mixture was filtered and the filtrate evaporated to leave a solid which was purified as the hydrochloride salt by recrystallization from methanol ether to give l E Z 4 pheny1 4 2 thienyl 3 buteny1 3 piperidinecarboxylic acid ethyl ester, hydrochloride, m.p. 148 150 C. The ester hydrochloride 3.62 g., 8.42 mmole dissolved in methanol was hydrolyzed with 19.2 ml. ot 0.932N sodium hydroxide solution. The methanol was removed, hydrochloric acid was added and the resulting mixture evaporated to dryness. Inorganic salt was removed by filtration of an ethanol suspension, the filtrate was evaporated and the residue taken up in methanol. Treatment of the methanol solution with hexamic acid gave the 1 E Z 4 phenyl 4 2 thienyl 3 butenyl 3 piperidine carboxylic acid hexamate, m.p. 105.5 C. foam .