# Improvements in tire and wheel configuration.

## Abstract
In many designs, a tire 14 of a wheel 10 is inadequately restrained with respect to a tire supporting rim assembly 12 of the wheel. Movement of the tire 14 with respect to the rim assembly 12 results in a wastage of energy. In the present invention a wheel assembly 10 has a rim assembly 12 and a tire 14 mounted on the rim assembly 12 . The rim assembly 12 has an annular elastic element 22 affixed thereto for increasing the coefficient of friction between the rim assembly 12 and the tire 14 .

## Claims
Claims 1. In a wheel assembly 10 having a rim assembly 12 and a closed torus tire 14 adapted to be mounted on said rim assembly 12 , the improvement comprising said rim assembly 12 including means 22 connected thereto for increasing the coefficient of friction between said rim assembly 12 and said tire 14 . 2. The wheel assembly 10 , as set forth in claim 1, wherein said rim assembly 12 has a metallic rim portion 24 and wherein said means 22 connected thereto includes an elastomeric element positioned intermediate said metallic rim portion 24 and said tire 14 , said elastomeric element 22 being fixed relative to the metallic rim portion 24 . 3. The wheel assembly 10 , as set forth in claim 2, wherein said elastomeric element 22 is annular and coaxial with said metallic rim portion 24 . 4. The wheel assembly 10 , as set forth in claim 3, wherein said elastomeric element 22 is an annular rubber element positioned between said metallic rim portion 24 and said tire 14 , said annular rubber element 22 being bonded to said metallic rim portion 24 . 5. The wheel assembly 10 , as set forth in claim 3, wherein said annular elastomeric element 22 is vulcanized to said metallic rim 24 . 6. The wheel assembly 10 , as set forth in claim 3, wherein said annular elastomeric element 22 is epoxy bonded to said metallic rim 24 . 7. The wheel assembly 10 , as set forth in claim 3, wherein said annular elastomeric element 22 is of a wedge shaped profile and is fixedly connected to said metallic rim 24 . 8. The wheel assembly 10 , as set forth in claim 3, wherein said annular elastomeric element is of a substantially constant thickness and is fixedly connected to said metallic rim 24 . 9. The wheel assembly 10 , as set forth in claim 2, wherein said rim assembly 12 includes a rim edge portion 20 and said elastomeric element 22 includes an outer face 26 proximate the corresponding one of said rim edges 20 , said rim edge 20 extending substantially around and in contact with said outer face 26 . 10. The wheel assembly 10 , as set forth in claim 9 wherein said rim edge portion 20 includes a rim lip 28 , said rim lip 28 being in contact with said outer face 26 .

## Description
Description Improvements in Tire and Wheel ConfigurationTechnical Field This invention relates generally to tire construction and more particularly to means for the reduction of rolling resistance by establishing a tire rim interface for decreasing movement of the tire bead seat portion with respect to the rim.Background Art It is well known that the rolling resistance of the tires of a moving vehicle constitutes a significant portion of the resistive force that must be overcome by the vehicle. This is especially true for those vehicles having pneumatic tires. The losses owing to rolling resistance in tires often amount to as much as 15 of the power produced by the vehicle s engine. There are three prime sources occasioning these rolling resistance losses. A reduction in these losses would be desirable. The first of the three sources of rolling resistance, aerodynamic drag, generally amounts to less than 5 of the total rolling resistance of the tire and hence is relatively insignificant. The second, tire to ground frictional losses typically contributes between 10 to 20 percent of the total rolling resistance of the tires. However, it is generally disadvantageous to decrease the tire to ground losses. This is due to the fact that traction is a concomitant of these tire road frictional losses, consequently these losses yield necessary safety and motive advantages. The third, and by far the greatest, cause of rolling resistance in pneumatic tires results from losses internal to the tire itself. In an operational mode the tire rolls, thus there is a loading of each differential unit of the elastomeric material comprising the tire. The loading is cyclical.Consequently, adjacent portions of the tire periodically move relative to each other, expending energy in the process. Such losses are termed hysterisis losses . This cyclically loading, causing tire deformation, also tends to cause movement of the tire relative to the rim supporting it. Standard elastomeric tires are generally structured so that beads of the tire are retained on the rim by an axially directed interference fit. For closed torus tires, the roll restraining hoops RRH , which are retained by a radially directed interference fit, achieve this function. In many tires this interference fit permits relative circumferential and or axial motion between the bead or RRH and the rim as the tire rotates. This relative motion results in frictional losses additional to the hysterisis losses. It is believed that at any given time only the most greatly loaded portion of the rim contacting portion of the tire moves significantly relative to the rim. Such localized relative motion is termed scrubbing . Scrubbing serves not only to waste energy, but is especially detrimental in that most of this wasted energy is degraded to heat. Heat build up can actually impose an operating limitation on the vehicle in that the loading and duration of operation of the tires should not be above a recommended operational temperature. These losses internal to the wheel are especially troublesome in the aircraft and heavy equipment industries. The rate at which energy is expended by the relative motion discussed above is directly related in magnitude to both the loading induced deflection of the tire and the rate of rotation of the wheel. The heat buildup in tires under great deflection, as in heavy earthmoving vehicles, is, then, very pronounced. Even with established speed and load limitations, such tires are often destroyed or damaged due to overheating. Similarly, with aircraft becoming increasing greater in weight and landing speed, aircraft tire manufacturers are facing ever greater heat buildup problems. The operating pressure of many aircraft tires has been increased in efforts to stiffen the tire and hence decrease rolling resistance. This has served to decrease heat build up. However, the use of elevated pressure has had the detrimental concomitant of increasing the loading imposed by the aircraft on runways resulting, in some instances, in accelerated runway deterioration. Some airports have forbidden certain aircraft with these high pressure tires to land. The present invention is directed to overcoming one or more of the problems as set forth above.Disclosure of the Invention In one aspect of the present invention, a wheel has a rim assembly and a tire mounted on this rim assembly. The rim assembly includes means for increasing the coefficient of friction and or the interference fit between said rim assembly and said tire. In many vehicles having wheels with rims and tires, a significant portion of the power developed by the vehicle is expended in overcoming the rolling resistance that is inherent in the use of tires In certain types of tires, a portion of this rolling resistance is the result of relative motion between the tire and the rim. In the present invention, means are provided for decreasing or eliminating the extent of this relative motion. This results in a reduction in the energy wasted as the wheel moves, thereby increasing the efficiency of the vehicle. An additional and often more significant result is a decrease in the rate at which heat builds up in the tire.Brief Description of the Drawing Fig. 1 shows a diagrammatic cross sectional view of a wheel incorporating an embodiment of the present invention, the wheel of this embodiment includes a two piece rim Fig. 2 shows a diagrammatic view of a sidewall, shoulder and rim portion of a tire incorporating a second embodiment of the present invention, the rim utilized in this embodiment is a single piece right, cylindrical rim Fig. 3 shows a similar view of a third embodiment of the present invention, utilized with a two piece rim Fig. 4 shows a similar view of a fourth embodiment of the present invention utilized with a two piece rim Fig. 5 shows a view of a fifth embodiment of the present invention mounted on a single piece, right cylindrical rim Fig. 6 shows a similar view of a sixth embodiment of the present invention mounted on a two piece rim and Fig. 7 shows a diagrammatic cross sectional view of an embodiment of the present invention utilized on a beaded tire.Best Mode for Carrying Out the Invention Referring to Fig. 1, a wheel embodying certain of the principles of the present invention is generally indicated by the reference numeral 10. In the preferred embodiment, the wheel 10 is of the class having a rim assembly 12 and a pneumatic, elastomeric closed torus tire 14 retained on said rim assembly 12 by an interference fit between roll restraining hoops 16 on said tire 14 and a tire contacting periphery 18 on said rim assembly 12. The rim 12 is preferably a two piece rim having a taper of greater than 30 preferably between 0 and 7 . One purpose of this taper is to limit the movement of the roll restraining hoops 16 away from the center of the rim assembly 12. The magnitude of the taper immediately proximate the roll restraining hoops 16 is especially critical. It is at this location, that is, where the rim assembly 12 directly faces the innermost portion of each roll restraining hoop 16, that the taper should preferably be sized between about 50 and 70. The tire retaining periphery 18 contacts a rim assembly contacting periphery 19 of the tire 14. The tire 14 also has a tread portion 15 which may comprise a belt not shown , and sidewall portions 17. While the preferred embodiment of the present invention comprises a closed torus tire 14 mounted on a two piece rim 12, the present invention is not limited to use with closed torus tires but is broadly suited for any wheels having tires not permanently bonded to the member supporting the tire. More specifically, the present invention is not limited to use with two piece rims. A one piece rim, well known to those skilled in the art, may also receive a tire 14 embodying principles of the present invention. Such a one piece rim, as shown in Figs. 2 and 5 may take the form of a right cylinder. In this embodiment use of a split band style rim is preferred. The rim assembly 12 has twin circumferential rim edge portions 20 distal from a plane circumferentially bisecting the rim assembly 12.Affixed to the rim assembly 12 at a location adjacent each rim edge portions 20 is an annular elastomeric element 22, preferably, as shown in Fig. 1, an annular wedge fashioned of rubber. As shown, the wedge shaped elastomeric element 22 has a thick portion 23 and is oriented with this thick portion 23 nearest the rim edge portions 20. The affixation of the elastomeric element 22 to the rim assembly 12 is preferably by a bond, such as by vulcanization or epoxy bonding.Preferably, the annular elastomeric element 22 aces not extend to a position immediately intermediate the roll restraining hoop 16 and the rim 12. In an alternate embo iment, shown in Fig. 2, the annular elastomeric element 22 has a substantially constant thickness. An end 25 of the elastomeric element 22 nearest the center of the rim assembly 12 may be tapered to support the rim assembly contacting periphery 19 of the tire 14 intermediate the constant thickness portion of the elastomeric element 22 and the portion of metallic rim 24 in direct contact with the tire 14. This embodiment may be used with a one piece right cylindrical rim having hoop restraining portions 27, as shown, or may be used with a tapered two piece rim. As shown in Figs. 1 6, each of the elastomeric elements 22 preferably extends so as to contact substantially all of that portion of the rim assembly contacting periphery 19 of the tire 14 which is more distal from the circumferential plane of symmetry of the tire 14 than are the roll restraining hoops 16.That is, each of the elastomeric elements 22 extends from a position adjacent a roll restraining hoop 16 to a position adjacent the corresponding rim edge portion 20. The metal rubber interface between the tire 14 and the rim assembly 12 intermediate each roll restraining hoop 16 and the corresponding one of the rim edge portions 20 is consequently minimized or eliminated. In those embodiments described heretofore which incorporate a two piece rim, the rim assembly 12 comprises a metallic rim 24 with the annular elastomeric element 22 affixed thereto. At a position adjacent each roll restraining hoop 16 the metallic rim 24 extends at an angle in the range of between about 0 30 to 9 and preferably in the range of about to 70 with respect to the radial axis of the rim assembly 12. The rim 24 continues extends at this constant angle to the rim edge portion 20. In a third embodiment, shown in Fig. 3, the metallic rim 24 may extend to an angle of between 10 and 80 degrees intermediate the roll restraining hoop 16 and the rim edge portion 20 with the elastomeric element 22 being an annular band rather than a wedge.That portion of the rim 24 immediately adjacent the roll restraining hoop 16 preferably is in the range of about 4 to 9 degrees. A fourth embodiment, detailed inFig. 4, is similar to the third embodiment but has a wedge shaped annular elastomeric element 22. In a fifth embodiment of the present invention, shown in Fig. 5, the metallic rim 24 extends to contact an outer face 26 of the annular elastomeric element 22.This outer face 26 is that portion of the elastomeric element which is furthest from the center of the rim assembly 12. As also shown in Fig. 5, the metallic rim 24 may have a lip 28 which, having extended radially outward to contact the outer face 26, then reverses and extends inward. This lip 28 presents a smooth surface to the sidewalls 17 of the tire 14 minimizing the likelihood of damage to the sidewalls 17 should they be forced into contact with the lip 28. This lip 28 also serves to mitigate potential extrusion of the annular elastomeric element 22. The fifth embodiment is shown having a one piece rim, but may alternatively have a tapered, two piece rim. In a sixth embodiment, shown in Fig. 6, the rim lip 28 extends not only around the annular element outer face 26 but also around a shoulder portion 30 of the tire 14. In this embodiment, it is especially preferable that the metallic rim 24 turn downward to form a smooth lip 28. In certain applications it is advantageous to include circumferentially extending strengthening elements 56 in the elastomeric elements 22. These strengthening elements 56 preferably assume the form of wires or strands embedded in the elastomeric elements 22 and serve to strengthen and render more durable the elastomeric elements. Additionally, the strengthening elements 56 can be so sized as to establish an interference fit between the elastomeric element 22 and the metallic rim 24 obviating the need for bonding the elastomeric element 22 to the metallic rim 24. These strengthening elements 56 are shown in the embodiment of Fig. 5. As will by now be apparent, numerous combinations of elastomeric elements 22 of various profiles and metallic rims 24 of various configurations may be utilized to obtain a functional elastomeric element 22 tire 14 interface. This interface may, in cross section, be defined by a curve as well as by a line or series of intersecting lines. In the present invention, it is not necessary that there be any additional elastomeric element intermediate the two roll restraining hoops 16. The detrimental scrubbing is believed to occur proximate the shoulder portion 30, hence it is this region which it is most desirable to restrain. As shown in Fig. 7, the present invention has applicability for standard tires having beads 31 as well as beadless tires. In this embodiment an elastomeric element 22 is preferably positioned to eliminate all contact between a standard tire 32 and the metallic rim 24 supporting it. It is preferable in this embodiment that the elastomeric elements 22 extend axially inward along the metallic rim 24 to a position intermediate the beads 31. Industrial Applicability In many applications it is undesIrable to bond a tire to the rim by which it is supported. In the prior art, a tire is generally maintained on its rim by interference fit alone, establishing a metai rubber interface across which relative motion, such as chafing, occurs. The present invention serves to Increase the coefficient of friction between the tire 14 and the rim assembly 12 of a wheel 10. This increased coefficient of friction stems from the fact that the only non od interface between the shoulder 30 of the tire 14 and the rim assembly 12 is rubber to rubber rather than metal to rubber. That is, i motion is to occur between the tire 14 and rim assembly 12 of the present invention, this motion will be resisted by the friction across a rubber to rubber interface rather than a rubber to metal interface. The increased coefficient of friction serves to reduce or eliminate relative motion between the tire 14 and rim assembly 12 during use of the wheel consequently reducing the rolling resistance of a wheel 10 incorporating the present invention. The use of a wedge shaped annular element 22 is especially advantageous in that it provides an increased inward loading to the shoulder 30 of the tire. This provides an increased interference fit which is partially inwardly directed. This assists in overcoming outwardly directed forces imposed upon the shoulder area in operation of the wheel. The extension of the metallic rim 24 to come around the outer face 26 of the annular element 22 prevents plastic deformation and extrusion of the annular element 22. This is especially important for annular elements 22 which are thick or wedge shaped.It is also beneficial to continue the extension of the rim lip 28 to contact the shoulder 30 of the tire 14.This provides additional support to the shoulder area of the tire 14 tending to further restrain it from motion relative to the rim assembly. It should be noted that the use of the annular elastomeric element serves to decrease the possibility of intrusion of grit between the tire 14 and rim assembly 12. Other aspects, objects, and advantages of the present invention can be obtained from a study of the drawings, the disclosure and the appended claims. The invention may be summarized as follows 1. In a wheel assembly 10 having a rim assembly 12 and a closed torls tire 14 adapted to be mounted on said rim assembly 12 , the improvement comprising said rim assembly 12 including means 22 connected thereto for increasing the coefficient of friction between said rim assembly 12 and said tire 14 . 2. The wheel assembly 10 , as set forth in 1, wherein said rim assembly 12 has a metallic rim portion 24 and wherein said means 22 connected thereto includes an elastomeric element positioned intermediate said metallic rim portion 24 and said tire 14 , said elastomeric element 22 being fixed relative to the metallic rim portion 24 . 3. The wheel assembly 10 , as set forth in 2, wherein said elastomeric element 22 is annular and coaxial with said metallic rim portion 24 . 4. The wheel assembly 10 , as set forth in 3, wherein said elastomeric element 22 is an annular rubber element positioned between said metallic rim portion 24 and said tire 14 , said annular rubber element 22 being bonded to said metallic rim portion 24 . 5. The wheel assembly 10 , as set forth in 3, wherein said annular elastomeric element 22 is vulcanized to said metallic rim 24 . 6. The wheel assembly 10 , as set forth in 3, wherein said annular elastomeric element 22 is epoxy bonded to said metallic rim 24 . 7. The wheel assembly 10 , as set forth in 3, wherein said annular elastomeric element 22 is of a wedge shaped profile and is fixedly connected to said metallic rim 24 . 8. The wheel assembly 10 , as set forth in 3, wherein said annular elastomeric element is of a substantially constant thickness and is fixedly connected to said metallic rim 24 . 9. The wheel assembly 10 , as set forth in 2, wherein said rim assembly 12 includes a rim edge portion 20 and said elastomeric element 22 includes an outer face 26 proximate the corresponding one of said rim edges 20 , said rim edge 20 extending substantially around and in contact with said outer face 26 . 10. The wheel assembly 10 , as set forth in 9 wherein said rim edge portion 20 includes a rim lip 28 , said rim lip 28 being in contact with said outer face 26 . 11. The wheel assembly 10 , as set forth in 9, wherein said elastomeric element 22 is annular and of wedge shaped profile having a thick portion 23 abutting said outer face 26 . 12. The wheel assembly leo as set forth in 2, wherein said tire 14 is a closed torus tire. 13. The wheel assembly 10 as set forth in 12, wherein said tire 14 includes a shoulder portion 30 , said elastomeric element 22 being in abutment with said shoulder portion 30 . 14. The wheel assembly 10 , as set forth in 13, wherein said rim assembly 12 includes rim edge portions 20 and said elastomeric element 22 includes an outer face 26 proximate the corresponding one of said rim edges 20 , said rim edge 20 extending substantially around and in contact with said outer face 26 . 15. The wheel assembly 10 , as set forth in 14, wherein said rim edge 20 extends to contact said shoulder portion 30 . 16. The wheel assembly 10 , as set forth in 1, wherein said rim assembly 12 includes a metallic rim 24 and wherein said elastomeric element 22 is bound to said metallic rim 24 by means of an interference fit. 17. The wheel assembly 10 , as set forth in 16, wherein said elastomeric element 22 contains at least one strengthening element 56 embedded therein. 18. The wheel assembly 10 , as set forth in 17, wherein said strengthening element 56 extends circumferentially through said elastomeric element 22 . 19. The wheel assembly 10 as set forth in 18, wherein said strengthening element 56 is metallic. 20. A rim assembly 12 adapted to have a tire i4 mounted thereon comprising A. a metallic rim 24 , i. said metallic rim 24 having a tire contacting periphery 18 , ii. said metallic rim 24 having an axis of symmetry, and iii. said metallic rim 24 having a rim portion 20 distal from a plane circumferentially bisecting said rim assembly 12 and B. at least one elastomeric element 22 adapted to be interposed intermediate said tire contacting periphery 18 and said tire 14 , said elastomeric element 22 being attached to said metallic rim 21 . 21. The rim assembly 12 , as set forth in 20, wherein said elastomeric element 22 is of a wedge shaped cross section, said elastomeric element 22 being of increasing thickness nearest said rim edge portion 20 . 22. The rim assembly 12 , as set forth in 20, wherein said rim assembly 12 is adapted to have mounted thereon a closed torus tire 14 having roll restraining hoops 16 , said closed torus tire 14 having a shoulder portion 30 axially outward from each roll restraining hoop 16 . 23. The rim assembly 12 , as set forth in 22, wherein said tire 14 is adapted to be positioned on said rim assembly 12 such that said elastomeric element 22 is free from being immediately intermediate any of said roll restrainIng hoops 16 . 24. The rim assembly 12 , as set forth in 23, wherein said elastomeric element 22 includes an outer face 20 distal from a center portion of said rim, said rim edge portion 20 being in contact with said outer face 20 . 25. The rim assembly 12 , as set forth in 24, wherein said rim edge portion 20 is adapted to contact both said outer face 26 and said shoulder portion 30 .