# Process for making pyridyloxyphenol compounds.

## Abstract
Process for making pyridyloxyphenol by reacting under essentially anhydrous conditions in the absence of oxygen and in a polar aprotic solvent, a 2 halopyridine with hydroquinone which has been from 75 to 100 per cent neutralized to the sodium or potassium salt.

## Claims
1. Process for making pyridyloxyphenol compounds having the formulaEMI8.1 wherein X is chloro or trifluoromethyl, Y is hydrogen or chloro and Z is hydrogen, sodium or potassium, which comprises dissolving hydroquinone in a polar aprotic solvent, heating under vacuum to degas, adding sufficient aqueous sodium or potassium hydroxide to neutralize from 75 to 100 percent of the hydroquinone, while continuing to heat under vacuum to distill off the water until less than 1 weight percent water, based on total weight of solvent and reactants, remains, releasing the vacuum with a dry inert gas, cooling and adding a 2 halopyridine having the formulaEMI8.2 wherein X and Y are as above defined and W is bromo, chloro, fluoro or iodo. 2. Process of Claim 1 wherein the reaction is carried out at a temperature of from 250 to 1500C. 3. Process of Claim 2 wherein the reaction temperature is from 70 to 1000C. 4. Process of Claim 1 wherein the 2 chloropyridine compound is 2,3 dichloro 5 trifluoromethyl pyridine. 5. Process of Claim 1 wherein the 2 chloropyridine compound is 2 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl pyridine. 6. Process of Claim 1 wherein the solvent is dimethylsulfoxide. 7. Process of Claim 1 wherein the solvent is N methyl pyrrolidone. 8. Process of Claim 1 wherein the hydroquinone has been from 90 to 100 percent neutralized to the sodium salt.

## Description
PROCESS FOR MAKING PYRIDYLOXYPHENOL COMPOUNDS Pyridyloxyphenol compounds may be prepared by the reaction of a 2 substituted pyridine compound with a hydroquinone and an alkaline material, as taught inU.S. Patent 4,046,553 issued September 6, 1977 and inU.S. Patent 4,275,212 issued June 23, 1981. In these reactions, the products of side reactions, such as hydrolysis, often constitute 5 or more weight percent of the obtained material. They may also be prepared by reacting appropriate diethers with a dihydroxybenzene in a polar aprotic solvent in the presence of 0.1 to 1 mole of alkali per mole of diether as taught in U.S.Patent 4,214,086 issued July 22, 1980. This reference also teaches that, if desired, a further solvent, which forms an azeotrope with water, may be employed. This invention provides a process for making pyridyloxyphenol compounds by reacting a 2 substituted pyridine compound with a hydroquinone and an alkaline material under essentially anhydrous conditions. More particularly, the invention provides a process for making pyridyloxyphenol compounds having the formula EMI2.1 wherein X is chloro or trifluoromethyl, Y is hydrogen or chloro and Z is hydrogen, sodium or potassium, which comprises dissolving hydroquinone in a polar aprotic solvent, heating under vacuum to degas, adding sufficient aqueous sodium or potassium hydroxide to neutralize from 75 to 100 percent of the hydroquinone, while continuing to heat under vacuum to distill off the water until less than 1 weight percent water, based on total weight of solvent and reactants, remains, releasing the vacuum with a dry inert gas, cooling and adding a 2 halopyridine having the formulaEMI2.2 wherein X and Y are as above defined and W is bromo, chloro, fluoro or iodo.Detailed Description of the Invention In carrying out the process of this invention, the selected pyridine and hydroquinone reactants are contacted in the absence of oxygen, i.e., under an inert atmosphere, e.g., nitrogen, helium or argon, in the presence of an inert carrier medium, i.e., a polar aprotic solvent such as, for example, dimethylsulfoxide DMSO , dimethylformamide, diethylacetamide or N methylpyrrolidone under essentially anhydrous conditions to provide the desired pyridyloxyphenol compounds in higher yields and purity than prior art methods, i.e., the products of side reactions such as hydrolysis often constitute less than 1 percent and advantageously less than 0.5 percent of the obtained material. To obtain the desired anhydrous conditions the hydroquinone reactant is, typically, dissolved in the polar aprotic solvent, the solution heated under vacuum advantageously about 1000C at 100 mm Hg to degas, the desired amount of aqueous caustic is added while continuing to heat under vacuum and water is removed by distillation. When all of the water is removed, i.e., less than 1 weight percent and, preferably, less than 0.5 weight percent based on total weight of the mixture of water remains, the vacuum is released with dry inert gas, e.g., nitrogen, the slurry of sodium or dipotassium hydroquinone is cooled and the desired pyridine compound is added. This latter reaction may be carried out at temperatures of from 250 to 1500C, but is preferably carried out at 700 to 1000C. The amount of sodium or potassium hydroxide required is that amount necessary to neutralize from 75 to 100 percent, advantageously 90 to 100 percent, of the hydroquinone reactant. The invention is further illustrated by the following examples in which all stated percentages are weight percents unless otherwise indicated Example 1 A solution of 22.5 g 0.205 mole of hydroquinone in 200 ml of DMSO was heated to 1000C under vacuum 100 mm Hg to degas and 31.5 g 0.394 mole of 50 percent aqueous NaOH were added over 10 minutes while continuing to heat the solution at 100 mm pressure. Water began to distill and was removed through a five plate Oldershaw Column operated with reflux.The pot temperature rose gradually to 1280C while the head temperature remained constant at about 550C.After about 35 ml of distillate had been collected, the head temperature rose rapidly to 125 C. The distillation was continued until about 80 ml had been collected. The vacuum was released with dry N2, the slurry of disodium hydroquinone was cooled to 700C and 43.2 g 0.2 mole of 2,3 dichloro 5 trifluoromethyl pyridine were added over about 5 minutes. The reaction exothermed and cooling was initially required to maintain the temperature below 800C for 30 minutes.The reaction was held at 800C. At this time, analysis by high pressure liquid chromatography HPLC showed the product composition to be EMI4.1 Example 2 A solution of 22.5 g 0.205 mole of hydroquinone in 200 ml of DMSO was heated to boiling under a five plate Oldershaw Column at 100 mm Hg pressure and 25.5 g 0.454 mole of KOH in 25 ml water were added dropwise over three hours while continuously distilling off water. After addition was complete, the distillation was continued to a pot temperature of 1280C and head temperature of 1230C. The total distillate was 110 ml.The vacuum was released with dry nitrogen, the slurry cooled to 700C and 43.2 g 0.2 mole of 2,3 dichloro 5 trifluoromethyl pyridine were added dropwise over 10 minutes. The reaction was held at 800C for 90 minutes.HPLC analysis showed the desired product with only 1.1 weight percent ofEMI5.1 and 0.5 percent of the bis compound.Example 3 A solution of 22.5 g 0.205 mole of hydroquinone in 300 ml N methylpyrrolidone was heated to boiling at 20 mm Hg pressure under a 10 plate OldershawColumn, 31.5 g 0.394 mole of 50 percent aqueous sodium hydroxide were added dropwise over 20 minutes and water was distilled off. The total distillate was 50 ml. The vacuum was released with dry nitrogen, the slurry cooled to 800C and 43.2 g 0.2 mole of 2,3 dichloro 5 trifluoromethyl pyridine were added all at once. The reaction mixture exothermed about 100C and was further heated to 1000C and held one hour to give the desired product containing only 1.4 weight percent of EMI6.1 and 0.25 weight percent of the bis compound.Example 4 A solution of 11.3 g 0.103 mole of hydroquinone in 145 ml DMSO was heated to boiling under a 10 plate Oldershaw Column at 100 mm Hg pressure, 15.6 g 0.195 mole of 50 percent aqueous sodium hydroxide were added dropwise over two minutes and water was distilled off. The total distillate was 60 ml. The vacuum was released with dry nitrogen, the slurry cooled to 700C and 18.1 g 0.1 mole of 2 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl pyridine were added all at once. The reaction exothermed to 1000C and was held there for 30 minutes to give sodium 4 5 trifluoromethyl 2 pyridyloxy phenate containing less than 1 weight percent ofEMI6.2 and 0.5 weight percent of the bis compound. Example 5 Following the procedure of Example 4 a slurry of 0.1 mole hydroquinone disodium salt was prepared and 21.6 g 0.1 mole of 2,3 dichloro 5 trifluoromethyl pyridine was added at 1100C. The reaction exothermed and was held at 1300 to 135at for five minutes to give the desired product containing only 0.3 weight percent of EMI7.1 and 0.1 weight percent of the bis compound.