# Modules for underfloor heating and or cooling systems and system comprising such modules.

## Abstract
A heating and or cooling module 1 for use in an underfloor heating and or cooling system and system comprising such modules. Each module comprises a continuous length of plastics tubing 2 laid in a serpen tine configuration on a thermally conductive support 3 for the passage of water through the tubing. The tubing 2 and support 3 are prefabricated as a portable unit which, because the support is flexible, can be folded about an axis parallel to the length of the tubing. The tubing 2 has an internal bore which is sufficiently small to prevent air from becoming trapped in the tubing. The tubing 2 and support 3 may be encapsulated in a flexible envelope to accomodate expansion and contrac tion movements.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A heating and or cooling module for use in an underfloor heating and or cooling system, the module comprising conduit means arranged in a serpentine configuration for the passage of a heating or cooling liquid therethrough, and thermally conductive support means for the conduit means both to support the conduit means and to dissipate heat therefrom, characterised in that the conduit means and support means are prefabricated as a portable unit adapted to be laid as a unit on a flooring surface, the support means is flexible to enable the complete unit to fold about an axis parallel to the lengths of the conduit means, and the conduit means is a continuous length of plastics tubing with an internal bore which is sufficiently small to prevent air from becoming trapped within the tubing during the passage of the liquid therethrough. 2. A module as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that the tubing has an internal bore of the order of 7 mm diameter. 3. A module as claimed in claim 1 or 2, including means to accommodate expansion and contraction of the tubing, characterised in that said means comprises a flexible envelope within which the tubing and the support means are encapsulated. 4. A module as claimed in claim 3, characterised in that the envelope comprises a wire reinforced sheet of plastics material. 5. A module as claimed in claim 3 or 4, characterised in that the envelope is such that when the module is buried by the flooring material the envelope is pressed into intimate contact with the tubing around a major sector of the tube circumference and pockets of air are trapped in the region of the minor sector of the tube circumference. 6. A module as claimed in any preceding claim, characterised in that the support means comprises a metal wire mesh on to which the tubing is secured in intimate contact therewith. 7. A heating and or cooling system comprising a plurality of modules as claimed in any preceding claim buried in an under floor system, characterised in that the modules are connected to flow and return pipes as a set in parallel or as a number of sub sets with the modules in parallel in each sub set. 8. A system as claimed in claim 7, characterised in that there are two modules in each sub set.

## Description
MODULES FOR UNDERFLOOR HEATING AND OR COOLING SYSTEMSDESCRIPTION This invention relates to heating and or cooling modules for use in underfloor heating and or cooling systems, for example in homes, schools, offices, hospitals, etc. One known form of under floor central heating system comprises an electric heating cable, consisting of an electric heating wire sheathed in a plastics tube, which is embedded in a screed of concrete forming a floor of a building. Another form of underfloor central heating system comprises a tube, made either of metal or a plastics material, which is embedded in a concrete screed as the floor is built and through which heated water is passed. In both these known systems, the concrete screed in which the heating cable or heated water tube is embedded forms a large storage type heating system. However, these known systems suffer from a major disadvantage, particularly in the installation thereof, in that the heating cable or heated water tube is laid on a sub floor from a reel or coil during installation, thus resulting in high labour costs, and requiring considerable care and skill on the part of the persons installing the system. Ele concrete srreed is sSseyuerrtlI poured over the sub floor. In other systems there is usually a need for anchor points embedded in the subfloor, thus weakening the effectiveness of the dampproof membrane at these points. Long runs of such piping also tend to give off heat, metre by metre of length, thus causing inequalities in flow temperature with diminishing temperatures towards the end of the run. Other systems are known, based upon the use of sinuous pipes, but primarily for installation in walls, where the problems and requirements are different from those of an underfloor system. One such example is described in UK patent specification No. 536390. It is an object of the present invention to provide a modular system which can be completel prefabricated, which is portable, and which can easily be transported to the site for installation. It is another object of the present invention to provide a module which by virtue of its construction is extremely easy to handle and to manoeuvre in restricted access conditions. It is a further object to provide a module which overcomes the problem of air locks which, particularly in an underfloor system with long runs of substantially horizontal pipe, can be especially troublesome with known systems which use relatively large bore pipes. It is yet another object of the invention to provide a modular system which enables one substantially to equalise the flow temperature of the water to ensure an even dispersal of floor temperature. In accordance with the present invention there is provided a heating and or cooling module for use in an underfloor heating and or cooling system, the module comprising conduit means arranged in a serpentine configuration for the passage of a heating or cooling liquid therethrough, and thermally conductive support means for the conduit means both to support the conduit means and to dissipate heat therefrom, characterised in that the conduit means and support means are prefabricated as a portable unit adapted to be laid as a unit on a flooring surface, the support means is flexible to enable the complete unit to fold about an axis parallel to the lengths of the conduit means, and the conduit means is a continuous length of plastics tubing with an internal bore which is sufficiently small to prevent air from becoming trapped within the tubing during the passage of the liquid therethrough. Preferably, the tubing has an internal bore of the order of 7 mm diameter. In a preferred embodiment, the module includes means to accommodate expansion and contraction of the tubing, characterised in that said means comprises a flexible envelope within which the tubing and the support means are encapsulated. Also in accordance with the invention there is provided a heating and or cooling system comprising a plurality of modules as claimed in any preceding claim buried in an under floor system, characterised in that the modules are connected to flow and return pipes as a set in parallel or as a number of sub sets with the modules in parallel in each sub set. Although the heating and or cooling module of the invention is primarily designed to be embedded in a concrete floor screed, it may also be embedded in a wall or ceiling of a building, depending upon the particular application to which the heating and or cooling system is to be put. Of course, it will be appreciated that the modules may also be installed in an outdoor environment, such as beneath a games pitch, where they can be used to prevent frost forming or to prevent snow settling on the pitch during adverse weather conditions, particularly during the winter months. It will also be appreciated that the modules may be installed as part of an air conditioning cooling system in a building, in which case cold water is passed through the tubing. The module and the modular system based upon it is particularly advantageous in reducing installation costs substantially as compared with conventloenl systems. Any number of such modules may be used to provide a required temperature within a room of a building. The modular system is also particularly attractive to architects, surveyors and others in the building trade because one can rapidly calculate the number of modules needed for any particular site, based upon the fact that the modules are standardised, and can consequently quote a reliable price for the installation. In order that the invention may be fully under stood, various preferred embodiments thereof will now be described by way of example and with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Fig. l is a partial plan view of a portable heating module in accordance with the invention for installation in an underfloor central heating system Fig. 2 is an enlarged cross sectional view of a portion of the module shown in Fig. 1 Fig. 3 is a view of the portion of the module shown in Fig. 2 but embedded in a concrete floor screed and Figs. 4 and 5 are schematic plan views of two domestic central heating installations incorporating such modules. Referring to Figs. 1 and 2 of the drawings, the portable prefabricated module 1 for installation in an underfloor central heating system comprises a continuous length of plastics tube 2 supported and secured to a rectangular, metal wire mesh 3 in a serpentine configuration. The tubing 2 has a relatively low heat emission and reliance is placed upon the heat conducting properties of the mesh 3 for the dissipation of heat to the floor. By using tubing which is in one continuous length in each module one avoids any problem of leakage at joints, which can occur in systems which are fabricated on site. An important feature of the present invention is that the tubing 2 is of small bore. Tubing with an internal diameter of about 7 mm is preferred although tubing within the range of 5 to 9 mm internal diameter is satisfactory. When installing a conventional underfloor system with large runs of substantially horizontal pipework air can become trapped in the pipes where there is an upward convexity. This air can be extremely difficult to remove. However, with small bore tubing this problem has been found not to occur and the tubing is effectively self venting. Any air bubbles will travel along the tube to a suitable venting point.This is thought to be due to a combination of the fact that the surface tension of water in a pipe of this diameter does not allow a bubble to cling to the tube wall and the fact that the water is travelling through the pipe at a relatively high speed, for example of the order of 6 metres per second. The use of the wire mesh 3 as a support backing gives the prefabricated module a degree of flexibility which conventional systems lack. Thus, the complete unit can be folded about an axis running parallel to the length dimension of the tubing, or can even be rolled up.This makes the module very easy to handle, especially where access is restricted. Also it means that the module can be installed on an uneven surface or on top of some fixed obstruction, because this flexibility will enable the module to adapt itself to any such irregularity. A flexible plastics envelope 4 encases the tube 2 and backing grid 3 and is sealed around the perimeter of the grid by a length of self adhesive tape 5 which is preferably thermally reflective. The envelope 4 is preferably a wire reinforced sheet of plastics material, such as polyethylene. The envelope 4 loosely encapsulates the tube 2 and grid 3 so that it can move with respect to the tube and grid when the module 1 is embedded in a concrete floor screed. From diagonallyopposed corners of the grid 3, respective ends of the tube 2 project through the tape 5, one end constituting a water input and the other end a water output. The heated water input end of the tube 2 is connected to a heated water source and the water output end of the tube is connected to the water source for recirculation.Because of the small bore tubing 2 the volume of water in the system is relatively small, which means that one achieves a quick response to a demand and also economical operation. The relatively close pitch spacing of the tube limbs in each module means also that the module can be operated at low water temperatures, for example down to 1000F. Fig. 3 shows the module 1 embedded in a concrete floor screed 6, the weight of the poured concrete having moved the envelope 4 downwardly into intimate contact with the grid 3 and with the major portion of the circumferential surface of the tubing 2. The portion of the envelope 4 beneath the grid 3 is, of course, sandwiched between the grid and a supporting sub floor 7 upon which the module 1 has been laid. However, elongate pockets 8, defined by a minor portion of the circumferential surface of the tubing 2 and corresponding portions of the grid 3 and envelope 4 extend along the sides of the tubing to allow for expansion and contraction of the tubing during operation of the module in the installed system. Generally, the sub floor 7 upon which the module 1 is laid before being embedded in concrete is 1 to 2 inches below normal floor level for housing and offices and deeper for industrial buildings, the module being connected to a distribution valve with pipework leading back to a boiler.Alternatively, the heating system may incorporate a solar heating panel, in which case the solar heated water may be used to augment the heated water from the boiler. Thus, it can be seen that the present invention provides a prefabricated, portable heating and or cooling module which is easy to instal and which, when installed, is unobtrusive and provides a substantial reduction in fuel costs when compared with the costs associated with known systems. In some instances, it has been estimated that installation costs could be reduced by as much as 49 in comparison with known underfloor systems. Fig. 4 shows, diagrammatically, the ground floor plan of a medium size house with a modular underfloor heating system installed. The system comprises four pairs 1 , 1 of heating modules embedded in a concrete floor screed not shown . Respective heated water input pipes solid lines and water return pipes broken lines are connected to each module 1 , 1 . The modules are connected in parallel and the direction of water flow in each pipe is indicated by the arrows. The connection of the modules in parallel is advantageous because one thereby achieves better temperature equalisation among the several modules, as compared with a series connected system where there is a large temperature drop across the system. One either connects all the modules as a set in parallel, or, as shown in Fig. 4, connects up the modules as a number of sub sets with the modules in parallel in each sub set. Similarly, Fig. 5 shows, diagrammatically, the ground floor plan of a small size house, there being only three pairs of panels to provide the necessary heat output.Again, respective heated water input pipes and water return pipes are shown, with the direction of water flow in each pipe being indicated by the arrows. In both cases, the outer cavity wall 100 of the house may be thermally insulated to reduce operating costs and conserve elersy.