# Detergent composition containing performance additive and copolymeric compatibilizing agent therefor.

## Abstract
Detergent compositions containing surface active agents, builders, performance additives and a narrowly defined class of carboxylic copolymers are disclosed. Preferred copolymers contain maleic acid and meth acrylic acid monomers. Preferred detergent additives are hydrocarbon detergent suds regulants, photoactivators. amine or oxidized amine soil release agents, silicone detergent suds regulants and bleach activators peracids.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A detergent composition with. a conventional matrix on basis of surface active agents, builders and a copolymeric ingredient, characterized in, that a performance additive is present in an amount from 0.002 to 5 by weight, the copolymeric ingredient consists of an ethylenicly unsaturated monocarboxylic acid monomer having not more than 5, preferably 3 or 4, carbon atoms, and an ethylenicly unsaturated dicarboxylic acid monomer having not more than 6, preferably 4, carbon atoms, whereby the molar ratio of the monomers is in the range from 1 4 to 4 1 and whereby the weight ratio of the copolymer to the performance additive is in the rage of from 500 1 to 1 5. 2. The detergent composition in accordance with Claim 1 wherein the copolymeric ingredient is comprised of meth acrylic acid and maleic acid monomers. 3. The detergent composition in accordance with Claim 1 wherein the performance additive, present in an amount from 0.01 to 2 by weight, is a suds regulant agglomerate consists ting of a water insoluble liquid, at room temperature and atmospheric pressure, hydrocarbon a water insoluble solia hydrocarbon having a melting point in the range from 350C to 1100C and a hydrophobic silica and wherein the weight ratio of copolymer to performance additive is in the range from 3 1 to 10 1. 4. The detergent composition in accordance with Claim 1 wherein the performance additive, present in an mount from 20 ppm to 2000 ppm, is a water soluble photoactivator from the group of porphine or mono , di , tri , or tetraaza pcrphine solubilized with anionic, nonionic, and or cationic substi tuent groups and metal ree or metallated with Zn II , Ca II ,Cd II , Mg It , Sc III , A1 III or Sn IV and wherein the weight ratio of copolymer to performance additive is in the range from 500 1 to 7 1. 5. The detergent composition in accordance with Claim 1 wherein the performance additive, present in an amount from 0.1t to 1.58 by weight, is a polyamine having the formula EMI22.1 wherein R is an alkyl or alkenylgroup having 10 to 22 carbon atoms, the R1 5, which are identical or different, are ethylene oxide or propylene oxide, R2 is hydrogen, Cl 4 all or R1 y, where x, y, and z are numbers such that the sum x y z is in the range from 2 to 25, n is a number from 1 to 6 and rn is a number from 1 to about 9 or an amine oxide having the formula EMI22.2 wherein R is an alkyl or alker,ylgroup having 10 to 22 carbon atoms, the R3 s which are identical or different are selected from C14 alkyl, ethylene oxide and propylene oxide, k is an integer from 1 to about 6, 1 is an integer from Q to 6, p is 0. or 1, u, v, and w are each 1 for alkylsubstituents, and integers in the range from 1 to 10 for ethylene oxide or propylene oxide substituents such that the sum of urv w is not greater than 25, whereby a 1 aqueous solution of the detergent composition has an alkaline pH C200C and wherein the weight ratio of copolymer to performance additive is in the range from 10 1 to 1 1. 6. The detergent composition in accordance with Claim 1 wherein the performance additive, present in an amount from 0.01 to 0.8 by weight, is a silicone, preferably in admixture with a hydrophobic silica, and wherein the weight ratio of copolymer to performance additive is in the range from 50 1 to 3 1. 7. The detergent composition in accordance with Claim 1 wherein the performance additive, present in an amount from 0.5 to 5 by weight, is represented by a detergent peracid precursor, and wherein the weight ratio of copolymer to performance additive is in the range from 4 1 to 1 5.

## Description
DETERGENT COMPOSITION CONTAINING PERFORMANCE ADDITIVE AND COPOLYMERIC COMPATIBILIZING AGENT THEREFORE Robertus J.C. KOSTER Andre BAECK This invention relates to the detergent utilization of certain copolymer ingredients in a compatibilizing functionality in conjunction with performance additives. The copolymeric ingredient is prepared from an ethylenicly unsaturated carboxylic acid and an ethylenicly unsaturated dicarboxylic acid. Preferred monomers are acrylic and methacrylic acids on one hand and maleic and citraconic acids on the other hand. The copolymeric agent was found to be especially suitable for enhancing the compatibility of detergent additives which are known to be sensitive to various conditions inclusive of prolonged storage, temperature, alkalinity, and or laundry conditions.In more detail, the copolymeric compatibilizing agent is capable of procuring, in contradistinction to their art established functionality, unexpected transfer properties in relation to specific detergent additives. These transfer properties go against the prevailing opinion according to which comparable copolymeric adjutants serve as deposition inhibitors, and consequently diminish the physical contact between detergent ingredients and. e.g. the fiber. The use of low levels of Cco polymeric additives for detergent application has been known for a long time and has found application in commercial detergent products. European Patent Application 0009171, BASF AG, published April 2, 1980 relates to the incorporation of polymaleic acid as a builder ingredient and or as an incrustation inhibitor in detergents. European Patent Application 0025551, BASF AG, published March 25, 1981 discloses the utilization of meth acrylic acid maleic acid copolymeric ingredients as incrustation inhibitors in detergent compositions. The copolymer comprises a large majority of the meth acrylic acid monomer.French Patent Application 78 11917, The Procter BR Gamble Company, published November 17, 1978, pertains to detergent compositions containing surface active agents, builders and a binary system based on not more than 4 of a polyphosphonate and not more than 4 of a polymeric ingredient which can be represented by the copolymers obtained from the polymerization of meth acrylic acid and maleic anhydride. German Patent Application DOS 1S 59 272, Procter BR Gamble European Technical Center, published July 23, 1970, relates to solid oxygen bleach detergent compositions containing a copolymeric ingredient based on vinyl methylether and maleic anhydride. The copolymeric ingredient is claimed to provide effective active oxygen regulation. It has now been discovered that the particular copolymeric ingredient of the invention herein can be used beneficially with a view to secure very desirable performance benefits upon use in combination with particular detergent additives with the proviso that the copolymeric ingredient is pref era bly used in excess leels in relation to a given pérformance additive. It is an object of this invention to formulate detergent compositions having desirable performance characteristics containing specific detergent additives. It is a further object of this invention to foxm.ulate laundry products capable of providing superior overall performance in presence of specific additives. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION It has now been discovered that markedly improved detergent compositions can be formulated containing a conventional detergent matrix in combination with detergent performance additives and a copolymeric ingredient. The performance additives are normally present in an amount from 0.0028 to 5 by weight. The copolymeric ingredient is prepared from an ethylenicly unsaturated carboxylic acid monomer and from an ethylenicly unsaturated dicarboxylic acid monomer, whereby these monomers are copolymerized in a molar proportion of 1 4 to 4 1. Preferably, the weight ratio of the copolymeric ingredient to the performance additives is from 500 1 to 1 5.Preferred additives.for use in combination with the copolymeric ingredients include water soluble photoactivators such as mixtures of sulfonated metal phthalocyanines composite detergent suds regulants containing water insoluble solid hydrocarbons, liquid hydrocarbons and hydrophobic Silicium dioxyde silicone detergent suds regulants as such or in combination with a laundry releasable carrier ingredient, e.g., a polyphosphate salt renewable soil release agents such as substituted and or oxidized,polyamines and monoamines and or organic bleaches or the precursors therefore. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION The invention herein comprises at least three major parameters, namely a conventional detergent matrix comprising surface active agents, and or water soluble or water insoluble builders and or sequestrants a detergent performance additive and a specific copolymeric ingredient. The major parameters of the invention are described in more detail hereinafter. Unless indicated to the contrary, the percent indications represent percent by weight indications. The detergent matrix comprises frequently a surfaceactive agent and or a builder ingredient. Qualitatively and quantitatively suitable surface active agents for use herein are disclosed in U.S. Patent 4,192,761, column 3, line 49 to column 5, line 42, this passage being incorporated herein by reference. Qualitatively and quantitatively suitable detergent builder materials can also be taken from U.S. Patent 4,192,761, column 8, line 56 to column 9, line 68, this passage being also incorporated herein by reference. It goes without saying that the detergent matrix of the compositions of this invention can also contain other major components according to the particular needs and or the physical state of the invention. In this respect, the compositions herein can be solid, pasty or liquid. Major amounts of pH regulants, inert fillers like sodium sulfate, water and or organic solvents like hydrocarbons and or lower alcohols can be applied as is well known in the art. The detergent matrix can also contain major levels of bleaching agents, for example, oxygen bleach agents such as perborate, percarbonate, perpyrophosphate, persilicate or, more in general, all oxygen bleach agents which are known to be suitable for use in detergent compositions in the established levels. The copolymeric ingredient consists of an ethylenicly unsaturated monocarboxylic acid monomer having not more than 5, preferably 3 or 4, carbon atoms, and an ethylenicly unsaturated dicarboxylic acid monomer having not more than 6, preferably 4 carbon atoms, whereby the molar ratio of the monomers is in the range from 1 4 to 4 1 i.e., monocarboxy lic acid dicarboxylic acid . Suitable examples of the monocarboxylic acid monomer are acrylic acidr methacrylic acid and vinyl acetic acid. Acrylic and methacrylic acids are preferred. Suitable examples of the dicarboxylic acid monomers are maleic acid fumaric acid citraconic acid and mesaconic acid. Preferred dicarboxylic acids are maleic acid and citraconic acid. The copolymeric ingredient can be further defined with the aid of the calcium sequestration value. These values can be measured by nephelometric titration methods as described in literature S. Chaberek and A.E. Martell, Organic Sequestering Agents, Wiley, New York, 1959 R.L. Smith, The Sequestration of Metals, Chapman and Hall, London, 199 a calcium nitrate solution is added to a solution containing sequestrant and sodium oxalate until turbidity is produced the titration is being carried out at constant pH 10 and room temperature. The sequestration value is expressed in mgCaC03 gram of copolymeric ingredient. The calcium sequestration value of the copolymeric ingredient is preferably in the range from 300 900 mgCaCO3 g. The performance additives herein are frequently present n an amount from 0.002 to 5 . Depending upon the particular functionality of the additive and the planned use of the final detergent composition, the preferred usage ranges for the individual additives vary rom additive to additive.The tern performance additive as. used herein is meant to express that the specific ingredient is added either to cure a deficiency of the general detergent matrix and or to provide special laundry and cleaning benefits. A A class of preferred additives for use nerein is repre sented by the suds regulant systems of U.S. Patent 4,192,761, said reference being incorporated herein by reference. The use of the suds regulant in conjunction with the copolymeric ingredient was found to procure union regulant activitv and stabilize this suds regulant during the laundry operaton at temperatures up to 600C or up to the boil. while not being bound as to an explanation of the peculiar benefits it is thought that the copolymeric ingredient promotes and enhances the adjacency and efficacy of the suds regulant to sensitive interfaces in this respect. As an example the suds regulant of U.S. Patent 4.192.761 can be present in an amount from 0.018 to 2 and it is represented by a suds regulant agglomerate consisting of a water insoluble liquid, at room temperature and atmospheric pressure, hydrocarbon a water insoluble solid hydrocarbon having a melting point in the range from 350C to 110 C and a hydrophobic silica, and is present in combination with the copolymer such that the weight ratio of copolymer to performance additive is in the range from 3 1 to 10 1. Another detergent additive that can be utilized beneficially in combination with the copolymeric agent is represented by a photoactivator, also frequently termed a photosensitizer. The photoactivator can be a porphine as described in the European Patent Application 0003149, The Procter Gamble Company, published on July 25, 1979 incorporated herein by reference, Preferred metal ions for the photoactivator are zinc and aluminum. The photoactivator is frequently used in low levels, e.g., in the level from about 20 ppm to 2000 ppm. In solid detergent compositions, the photoactivator is generally used in combination with a carrier material such as polyphosphates, sulfates, a.s.o.Generally, the level of such photoactivator particles containing a carrier material represents from 0.1 to 1 of the detergent composition. The photoactlvator is believed to exhibit its activity in the direct environinent of the fiber possibly in comb nation with perborate. The copolymeric ingredient favors this transfer of photoactivator to the fiber in presence of the other components in the laundry liquor at the applicable temperatures, e.g., laundry temperatures in the range from up to about GOOC or up to the boil. As an example, a water soluble photoactivator used in the specified levels can be represented by the porphine activators of European Patent Application 0003149, namely a porphine or a mono , di , tri , or tetraaza porphine solubilized with anionic, nonionic, and or cationic substituent groups and metal free or metallated with Zn II , Ca II , Cd II , Mg ll , Sc III , A1 III , or Sn IV . The weight ratio of copolymer to photoactivator performance additive is frequently in the range from 500 1 to 7 1. The copolymeric ingredient was also fcld to be ef fec tive in combination with additive levels of renewable soil release agents as described in British Patent Applications 80 19680, filed June 17, 1980 and 80 38306, filed November 28, 1980, these documents being incorporated herein by reference. The copolymeric ingredient enhances and contri butes to a more quantitative deposition of the renewable soil release agent, specifically the polyamines oxidized cr not andgor the oxidized monoamines. The renewable soil release agent which frequently is used in levels from 0.1 to 1.5 can be represented by polyamines having the formula EMI7.1 wherein R is an alkyl or alkenylgroup having 10 to 22 carbon atoms, the Rl s, which are identical or different, are ethylene oxide or propylene oxide, R2 is hydrogen, C1 4 alkyl or Rl y, where x, y, and z are numbers such that the sum x y z is in the range from 2 to 25, n is a number from 1 to 6 and m is a number from 1 to 9 or amine oxides having the formula IEMI7.2 wherein R is an alkyl or alkenylgroup having 10 to 22 carbon atoms, the R3 s which are identical or different are selected from C14 alkyl, ethylene oxide and propy lene oxide, k is an integer from 1 to 6, 1 is an integer from 0 to 6, p is 0 or 1, u, v, and w are each 1 for alkylsubstituents, and integers in the range from 1 to 10 for ethylene oxide or propylene oxide substituents such.that the sum of u v w is not greater than 25, with the proviso that a 1 aqueous solution of the detergent composition has an alkaline pH 200C . A preferred polyamine for use herein is N hydrogenated tallow C16 C18 N,N ,N tri 2 hydroxyethyl propylene 1,3diamine. Preferred amine oxide species are N C i2 14 coconutalkyl N,N dimethyl N amine oxide N tallow C16 18 alkyl N,N ,N tri 2 hydroxyethyl propylene 1,3 diamine N,N dioxide N C12 14 alkyl N,N ,N tri 2 hydroxyethyl propylene 1,3 diamine N,N dioxide N C1618 tallow alkyl N, N dimethyl N amine oxide N C12 14 coconut alkyl N,N di 2 hydroxyethyl N amine oxide or N C16 18 tallowalkyl N,Ndi 2 hydroxyethyl N amine oxide. The weight ratio of copolymer to soil release additive is preferably in the range from 10 1 to 1 1. Another detergent additive that can be used advantageously together with the copolymeric agent is represented by a silicone detergent suds regulant. Suitable detergent silicones are well known in the art and are, for example, described in German Patent Application DOS 23 38 468 to TheProcter Gamble Company, incorporated herein by reference. Preferred silicone suds regulants for use in solid detergent compositions are comprised of a suds control amount, preferably between 0.01 and Q.8i of a poly dimethyl siloxane fluid or a mixture of a silicone and a hydrophobic silica.The preferred silicone suds controlling agents are frequently releasably incorporated in a water soluble or waterdispersible, substantially non surface active, detergentimpermeable carrier as described in DOS 23 38 468, incorporated here. by reference. Preferred silicone suds regulants for use in non solid detergent compositions are frequently oil in water emulsions comprising e.g. from 4 to 15 of poly dimethyl siloxane, from 0.5 to 3 of amorphous hydrophobic silica, from 3 to 10 of C10 C20 fatty acid ethoxylated with from 3 to 11 moles of ethylene oxide and balance to 100 water. The copolymeric agent is used in a weight ratio of copolymer perforrnance additive of from 50 1 to 3 1. The copolymeric ingredient enhances and facilitates the built up of effective silicone regulant concentrations, during use, at the suds generating interface. Still another detergent additive that can be utilized beneficially in combination with the copolymeric ingredient is represented by peroxygenbleaches I frequently termed peracid bleaches. Suitable species include all those which have found application and or are known to be suitable for use in detergent technology. These peracids are usually organic in nature. Well known detergent peracids are aliphatic diperoxyacids having from 8 to 16 carbon atoms as disclosed in European Patent Application 0000970, The Procter GambleCompany, published March 7, 1979, said reference being incorporated herein by reference. Di peroxydodecanedioic acid is an example of the like aliphatic diperoxyacids. The peracids can also be formed in situ with the aid of a suitable peroxygen bleach activator.The source of active oxygen is a current oxygen bleach agent such as perborate percarbonate and so on. Suitable peractivators peracid precursors are eminently well known in this domain of technology.Mechanistically the like activators are frequently organic molecules which carry acyl groups which acyl groups will undergo convertion to peracids. The peracids subsequently are capable of providing the bleaching power. A wellknown peractivatcr species is tetraacetylethylenediamine,TAED. It goes without saying that in lieu of the acetyl groups other short chain acyl groups such as isopropyl, butyl and pentyl can be utilized. The selection of activator for use in detergents is well known and consequently routine practice. The peracids are frequently used in normal bleach levels, i.e., in between 1 and 20 . If the peracid is formed in situ, however, then the precursor can possibly be used repeatedly, i.e., generate more than 1 molecule of peracid per mole of activator. Accordingly, the precursor is frequently used in submolar proportions in relation to the perbleach, i.e., in the range from 0.5 to 5 . The weight ratio of the copolymer to the precursor is preferably in the range from 4 1 to 1 5. In addition to the essential components described hereinbefore, the compositions of this invention can comprise a series of supplementary components to perfect and complement the performance advantages derived from the compositions.These additional components include brighteners, dyes, perfumes, bactericides, and antioxidants, processing aids, corrosion inhibitors, enzymes and so on. These further ingredients are used for their known functionality in the art established levels, i.e., frequently in the range from 0.1 to 5 . The following examples illustrate the invention and facilitate its understanding. The abbreviations for the individual ingredients have the following meaning LAS Sodium salt of linear dodecyl benzene sulfonateTAS Sodium salt of tallow alcohol sulfate Sodium salt of alpha olefin C12 18 sulfonate FAE3 S Sodium salt of fatty alcohol C12 18 ethoxy 3 sulfateAO C12 14 alkyl dimethylamine oxide HLAS Linear dodecyl benzene sulfonic acid TAEll lallow alcohol ethoxylated with about 11 moles of ethylene oxideFA25E7 Fatty alcohol C12 Cl5 ethoxylated with about 7 moles of ethylene oxide FA25E4 Fatty alcohol C12 C15 ethoxylated with about 4 moles of ethylene oxideDTDMAC Ditallow dimethyl ammonium chlorideCFA C12 14 coconut fatty acidHFA Eydrogenated C16 22 fatty acidSTPP Sodium tripolyphosphateZeolite A Sodium salt of zeolite 4A average particle size between 2 6 microns NTA Sodium salt of nitrilotriacetateCopolymer AA40 MA60 copolymer of acrylic acid 40 mol and maleic acid 60 mol MAA50 MA50 copolymer of methacrylic acid 50 mol and maleic acid 50 mol CMC Sodium salt of carboxymethyl celluloseMHPC Sodium salt of methyl hydroxypropyl celluloseClay Sodium montmorilloniteSilicate 1.6 Sodium silicate SiO2 Na2O 1.6 Silicate 1.0 Sodium metasilicateTEA triethanolamineSTS Sodium salt of toluene sulfonateEDTA Sodium salt of ethylene di amine tetra acetatePerborate NaBO2.E2O2.3H2O TAED Tetraacetyl ethylene di amine P.A. Photoactivator sulfonated Zn phthalocyanineAntioxidant 4,4 thiobis 6 tertiary butyl 3 m cresol SRS I Prilled suds regulating system consisting of a 77.5 STPPEMI11.1 tb b SEP 22.5 SEP active SEP 13.5 SEP paraffin SEP oil tb SEP 6 SEP paraffin SEP wax SEP m.p. SEP 70 C SEP tb SEP 3 SEP amorphous SEP hydrophobic SEP silica SEP tb SRS IX Prilled suds regulating system consisting of a 85 STPP b 15 active 12.7 polydimethylsiloxane 2.3 amorphous hydrophobic silica SRS III oil in water emulsion 9 polydimethylsiloxane 1 amorphous hydrophobic silica 5 coconut fatty acid ethoxylated with 7 moles of ethylene oxide 858 water The following granular detergent compositions are prepared by conventional spray drying of a slurry of individual ingredients and subsequent dry mixing of this base powder with spray drying sensitive ingredients. EMI13.1 tb SEP COMPOSITION tb SEP SEP by SEP weight tb SEP INGREDIENT SEP I SEP II SEP III SEP IV tb SEP LAS SEP 5.0 SEP 15.0 SEP SEP 5.0 tb TAS SEP 3.0 SEP SEP 2.5 SEP 3.0 tb alpha OS SEP SEP SEP SEP 5.0 SEP tb FAE3S SEP SEP 5.0 SEP SEP tb TAE11 SEP 1.0 SEP 2.5 SEP SEP 1.0 tb FA25E7 SEP SEP SEP 4.0 SEP tb DTDMAC SEP SEP 1.5 SEP SEP tb CFA SEP SEP SEP 4.0 SEP tb HFA SEP SEP 0.5 SEP SEP tb STPP SEP SEP 20.0 SEP 20.0 SEP 16.0 SEP 28.0 tb Zeolite SEP A SEP SEP SEP 16.0 SEP tb NTA SEP 6.0 SEP SEP SEP tb Na3Citrate SEP SEP 5.0 SEP SEP tb Copolymer SEP AA50 MA50 SEP 1.3 SEP SEP 1.5 SEP tb SEP AA35 MA65 SEP SEP SEP SEP 1.2 tb MAA55 MA45 SEP SEP 2.0 SEP SEP tb CMC SEP 0.8 SEP SEP 1.0 SEP 0.8 tb Clay SEP SEP SEP 8.0 SEP SEP tb Silicate SEP 1.6 SEP 6.0 SEP SEP 2.0 SEP 6.0 tb MgSO4 SEP 0.5 SEP SEP 0.5 SEP 1.0 tb Na2SO4 SEP 13.1 SEP 28.0 SEP 8.3 SEP 14.6 tb NaOH SEP 0.8 SEP 13.3 SEP 0.95 SEP 0.75 tb EDTA SEP 0.2 SEP 0.2 SEP 0.3 SEP 0.2 tb Perborate SEP 32.0 SEP SEP 28.0 SEP 28.0 tb SRS SEP I SEP 1.0 SEP 2.7 SEP 1.5 SEP 1.2 tb Enzyme SEP proteolytic SEP 0.2 SEP 0.6 SEP 0.3 SEP 0.2 tb Brightener, SEP perfume, SEP water SEP balance SEP to SEP 100 tb Additional solid detergent compositions are prepared having the following formulae.EMI14.1 tb SEP COMPOSITION tb SEP SEP by SEP weight tb SEP INGREDIENTS SEP V SEP VI SEP VII tb LAS SEP 10.0 SEP 5.0 SEP 7.0 tb TAS SEP SEP 3.0 SEP tb FAE3S SEP 3.0 SEP SEP tb TAE11 SEP 1.0 SEP 1.0 SEP 2.7 tb HFA SEP SEP 4.0 SEP 3.5 tb STPP SEP SEP SEP 60.0 SEP 28.0 tb NTA SEP SEP . SEP SEP SEP 4.0 tb Na2CO3 SEP SEP 20.0 SEP SEP tb Copolymer SEP MAA40 MA60 SEP 1.7 SEP 1.4 SEP 0.3 tb CMC SEP 1.0 SEP 1.0 SEP 0.8 tb MHPC SEP SEP 0.5 SEP tb Silicate SEP 1.6 SEP 18.0 SEP 3.0 SEP 8.0 tb MgSO4 SEP SEP 1.0 SEP SEP 0.5 tb Na2SO4 SEP 5.2 SEP 9.5 SEP 4.2 tb NaOH SEP 1.1 SEP 0.9 SEP 0.2 tb STS SEP 1.4 SEP SEP tb EDTA SEP 0.2 SEP 0.3 SEP 0.3 tb Perborate SEP 25.0 SEP SEP 30.0 tb P.A. SEP 0.007 SEP 0.003 SEP 0.002 tb Enzyme SEP proteolytic SEP .0.3 SEP SEP 0.6 SEP 0.2 tb Brightener, SEP perfume, SEP H2O SEP Balance SEP to SEP 100 tb EMI15.1 tb SEP COMPOSITION tb SEP SEP by SEP weight tb SEP INGREDIENT SEP VIII SEP IX SEP X SEP JXI SEP tb LAS SEP 7.0 SEP 4.5 SEP 7.0 SEP 4.5 tb TAS SEP SEP 2.5 SEP SEP 2.5 tb A.O. SEP 0.5 SEP 0.3 SEP 0.8 SEP 1.0 tb TAE11 SEP 2.7 SEP SEP 2.7 SEP tb FA25E7 SEP SEP 2.0 SEP SEP 2.0 tb CFA SEP SEP 2.0 SEP SEP 2.0 tb HFA SEP SEP 3.5 SEP 4.0 SEP 3.5 SEP 4.0 tb STPP SEP 31.0 SEP 24.0 SEP 16.0 SEP 8.0 tb Zeolite SEP A SEP SEP SEP 16.0 SEP 16.0 tb NTA SEP SEP SEP 4.0 SEP SEP 6. 0 SEP tb Copolymer SEP AA40 MA60 SEP SEP 1.5 SEP SEP 1.5 tb SEP MAA55 MA45 SEP SEP SEP 1.3 SEP tb SEP 50 SEP 50 SEP 2.0 SEP SEP SEP SEP AA SEP MA tb CMC SEP 0.8 SEP 0.8 SEP 1.0 SEP SEP 1.0 tb Silicate SEP 1.6 SEP 5.0 SEP 5.0 SEP 2.0 SEP 2.0 tb MgSO4 SEP SEP 0.5 SEP 0.5 SEP 1.0 tb Na2SO4 SEP 7.4 SEP 10.5 SEP 8.5 SEP 11.6 tb NaOH SEP 1.3 SEP 1.0 SEP 0.8 SEP 1.0 tb EDTA SEP 0.2 SEP 0.3 SEP 0.3 SEP 0.2 tb Perborate SEP 32.0 SEP 28.0 SEP 30.0 SEP 28.0 tb Enzyme SEP proteolytic SEP 0.2 SEP 0.2 SEP 0.3 SEP 0.2 tb Brightener, SEP perfume, SEP water SEP balance SEP to SEP 100 tb A liquid detergent composition is made by mixing the following individual ingredients.EMI16.1 tb SEP COMPOSITION tb SEP SEP by SEP weight tb SEP INGREDIENT SEP XII tb HLAS SEP 13.5 tb TAE11 SEP 20.0 tb FA25E4 SEP 10.0 tb Copolymer SEP MAA50 MA50 SEP 0.5 tb TEA SEP 7.7 tb P.A. SEP 0.002 tb Enzyme SEP proteolytic SEP 0.8 tb SRS SEP III SEP 1.0 tb 1 2 SEP propylene SEP glycol SEP 2.0 tb Ethanol SEP 11.0 tb Brightener, SEP perfume, SEP dye, SEP H20 SEP balance SEP to SEP 100 tb EMI17.1 tb SEP COMPOSITION tb SEP SEP by SEP weight tb SEP INGREDIENTS SEP XIII SEP XIV SEP XV tb LAS SEP 4.0 SEP 4.0 tb alpha OS SEP SEP SEP SEP 4.5 tb FA25E7 SEP 12.0 SEP 10.0 SEP 6.0 tb CFA SEP SEP 2.0 SEP 6.0 tb HFA SEP 0.5 SEP SEP 0.5 tb STPP SEP SEP 32.0 SEP 40.0 SEP 18.0 tb Zeolite SEP A SEP SEP SEP 20.0 tb Na3 SEP Citrate SEP SEP 10.0 tb Copolymer SEP AA50 MA50 SEP 2.0 SEP SEP 1.3 tb SEP AA35 MA65 SEP SEP 1.2 SEP tb CMC SEP SEP 0.8 SEP 1.0 SEP 0.8 tb MHPC SEP SEP SEP 0.5 tb Silicate SEP 1.6 SEP SEP 6.0 SEP 6.0 SEP 2.0 tb MgSO4 SEP 0.5 SEP SEP 1.0 tb Na2SO4 SEP 7.1 SEP 4.5 SEP 2.5 tb NaOH SEP 1.3 SEP 0.8 SEP 0.8 tb EDTA SEP 0.2 SEP 0.2 SEP 0.3 tb Perborate SEP SEP 24.0 SEP 10.0 SEP 28.0 tb Antioxidant SEP SEP SEP 0.012 SEP 0.01 SEP 0.01 tb SRS SEP II SEP SEP 1.6 SEP 2.1 SEP 1.3 tb Brightener, SEP perfume, SEP H2O SEP balance SEP to SEP 100 tb A liquid deterg nt composition is made by mixing the following individual ingredients.EMI18.1 tb SEP COMPOSITIONS tb SEP SEP by SEP weight tb SEP INGREDIENT SEP XVI tb H SEP LAS SEP 15.0 tb FA25E4 SEP 15.0 tb Lauric SEP acid SEP 15.0 tb Copolymer SEP AA45 MA55 SEP 0.8 tb TEA SEP 8.7 tb Enzyme SEP proteolytic SEP 0.6 tb SRS SEP III SEP 0.4 tb 1 2 SEP propylene SEP glycol SEP 3.0 tb Ethanol SEP 9.0 tb Brightener, SEP perfume, SEP dye, SEP H20 SEP Balance SEP to SEP 100 tb Peracids containing detergent compositions are prepared having the composition hereinafter,EMI19.1 tb SEP COMPOSITIONS tb SEP SEP by SEP weight tb SEP INGREDIENT SEP XVII SEP XVIII SEP XIX SEP XX tb SEP LAS SEP 7.0 SEP 5.0 SEP 15.0 SEP 4.0 tb SEP TAS SEP SEP 3.0 SEP SEP tb SEP TAE11 SEP 2.7 SEP SEP 2.5 SEP tb SEP FA25E7 SEP SEP 2.0 SEP SEP 12.0 tb SEP CFA SEP SEP 2.0 SEP SEP tb SEP HFA SEP 3.5 SEP SEP 0.5 SEP 0.5 tb SEP STPP SEP 31.0 SEP 16.0 SEP 25.0 SEP 24.0 tb SEP Zeolite SEP A SEP SEP 16.0 SEP SEP tb SEP Copolymer SEP MAA35 MA65 SEP SEP 0.8 SEP SEP tb SEP AA50 MA50 SEP 1.2 SEP SEP 1.5 SEP tb SEP AA40 MA60 SEP SEP SEP SEP 1.7 tb SEP CC SEP 0.8 SEP 1.2 SEP 1.0 SEP 1.0 tb SEP Silicate SEP 1.6 SEP 5.0 SEP 2.0 SEP 5.0 SEP 6.0 tb SEP Silicate SEP 1.0 SEP 1.0 SEP SEP SEP SEP tb SEP MgSO4 SEP 0.5 SEP 1.0 SEP 0.5 SEP 1.0 tb SEP Na2SO4 SEP 9.0 SEP 13.6 SEP 18.1 SEP 12.4 tb NaOH SEP 0.75 SEP 0.50 SEP 0.95 SEP 1.1 tb SEP TAED SEP 3.0 SEP 2.5 SEP 4.0 SEP 2.5 tb SEP Perborate SEP 24.0 SEP 20.0 SEP 8.0 SEP 2.0 tb SEP Antioxidant SEP SEP SEP SEP 0.012 tb SEP Enzyme SEP proteolytic SEP 0.3 SEP 0.6 SEP 0.6 SEP 0.3 tb SEP SRS SEP I SEP SEP 0.5 SEP 1.3 SEP tb SEP SRS SEP II SEP SEP SEP SEP 0.16 tb SEP Brightener, SEP perfume, SEP water SEP balance SEP to SEP 100 tb A composition suitable for impregnation on to a substrate is made by mixing together the following ingredients in the proportions specified parts by weight EMI20.1 tb SEP COMPOSITION tb SEP SEP by SEP weight tb INGREDIENT SEP XXI tb FA45E7 SEP 5.0 tb C14TMAB SEP SEP 2.0 tb TAED SEP 5.0 tb EDTLAS SEP 0.5 tb Copolymer SEP MAA50 MA50 SEP 1.0 tb Polyethylene SEP glycol SEP 6000 SEP 5.0 tb SRS SEP III SEP 0.25 tb The fatty alcohol ethyoxylate and polyethlene glycol are mixed together and heated to 80 0C to form a melt after which the remaining materials are added and the mixture stirrred to form a homogeneous dispersion. The dispersionis then applied to a flexible non woven apertured sheet of 100 non bleached rayon fibre bonded with ethyl acrylate builder 70 fibre 30 .binder of basis weight 25 grs sq.metre and dimensions 25 cm by30 cm. The application is controlled so as to apply approximately 19 g of composition to the sheet. The quaternary ammonium salt can be replaced by any of the salts specified in U.S. Patent no. 4,220,562 column 7 lines 46 68 and column 8 lines 1 8 with satisfactory results.Similarly satisfactory compositions are obtained if the EDTMP is replaced by the ethylene triamine penta methylene phosphonic acid DETPMP .