# An optical encoder.

## Abstract
An optical encoder has a flexible disc 18 mounted on a shaft 12 and an air bearing guide 26 mounted adjacent at least a portion of the periphery of said disc.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An optical encoder having a flexible disc 18 mounted on a shaft 12 and characterised by an air bearing guide means 26 mounted adjacent at least a portion of the periphery of said disc. 2. An encoder as claimed in claim 1 characterised in that said air bearing guide means comprises opposed planar surfaces 28 each having at least one orifice 30, 32 therein to allow communication of a gas under pressure into the region between the opposed surfaces. 3. An encoder as claimed in claim 2 characterised in that the or said orifices in one surface are aligned with a corresponding orifice in the opposite surface along a perpendicular to both surfaces. 4. An encoder as claimed in any preceding claim characterised in that said disc is made of metal or a polyester material, such that the stiffness of the disc is less than the stiffness of the air bearing guide means.

## Description
XQ OPTICAL ENCODER This invention relates to optical encoders. Optical tachometers or optical encoders are used to sense the rotational speed of shafts. Encoders currently employ rigid, shaft mounted discs. These discs when they have 1000 lines or more are produced on rigid film or glass by photographic means.The discs are precision aligned perpendicular to the axis of a shaft so that symmetry of the optical output can be maintained.The precision mounting requires the disc to be of small size, usually less than 5 cm in diameter for discs with 1,000 lines.If the diameter of the disc is increased, the thickness must also increase to give it the necessary rigidity and there is a corresponding increase in optical diffusion which limits the increase in accuracy expected from the greater number of radial lines and spacing therebetween which may be placed on a larger diameter disc. According to the present invention, there is provided an optical encoder having a flexible disc mounted on a shaft and characterised by an air bearing guide means mounted adjacent at least a portion of the periphery of said disc. The invention is illustrated, merely by way of example, in the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 1 is a side cross sectional view of an optical encoder according to the present invention Figure 2 is a side cross sectional view of an air bearing guide of the encoder of Figure 1 and Figure 3 is a section taken on the line 3 3 of Figure 2. Referring to Figure 1, an optical encoder according to the present invention comprises a motor 10 which drives a shaft 12.Mounted on the shaft 12 perpendicular to the axis thereof and captured between a hub 14 and a collar 16 is a flexible disc 18.The disc has an area 20 of etched lines or slots radially spaced from the shaft 12. The passage of these slots past a light emitting photo diode 22 and a phototransistor 24 on rotation of the shaft cooperates to create electric pulses whose frequency is proportional to rotational velocity of the shaft. Adjacent the periphery of the disc 18 and extending at least along a portion thereof, preferably adjacent to the photo diode 22 and transistors 24, is an air bearing guide 26. The guide 26 acts to maintain the flexible disc 18 spaced equidistant from opposed planar surfaces 28. The air bearing guide is shown in greater detail inFigures 2 and 3. The opposed surfaces 28 are parallel and carry opposed orifices 30, 32, aligned with one another on axes 34, 36, 38 perpendicular to the opposed surfaces and parallel to the axis of the shaft 12. Each orifice is preferably identical in cross section.A pressurised gas, such as air, preferably from a common source not shown is fed to exterior ports 40 of each orifice. The gas passes through the orifices to interior ports 42 to create, on the disc 26 rotating therebetween, equal and opposite pressure so as to maintain the disc 26 equidistant between the opposed surfaces 28. Appropriate air bearing guide criteria may be derived from the following formulae EMI2.1 where h flying height or separation between the surfaces 28 and the disc 18 cm Q gas flow Q sec N viscosity of gas pond sec cmê Q distance from the centre orifice to the outside edge of the respective surface 28 cm distance between the centres of adjacent orifices cm P load seen by the air bearing guide due to the disc not being flat or the load required to move the disc to the midplane between the surfaces 28 pond A area of each surface 28 cmê andQ is found fromEMI3.1 Where A P2 pressure drop to supply provided by the air bearing guide to the supply pressure pond cmê 4F friction factor Re Re Reynolds number for laminar flow D diameter of each orifice cm L1 length of each orifice cm C gas discharge loss coefficient K 0.78 where K is the hydraulic resistance of each orifice. Ro density of air gm cm The load on the bearing, assuming the disc to be a cantilever beam approximation, isEMI3.2 where y deflection required cm 2 E modulus of elasticity of the material of the disc pond cm b diameter of the disc cm L2 cantilever length of the disc from the outside diameter of the hub 14 to the outside edge of the disc cm The disc may be made of relatively very thin metal, glass or a polyester film manufactured from xylene, such as sold under theTrade Mark MYLAR, and etched, slotted or photolithographed in conventional fashion. However, the disc must not be completely rigid to allow the air bearing guide to move the edge of the disc in its proper position equidistant to the surfaces 28. In a preferred embodiment, the disc was constructed of stainless steel and slotted, 8.25 cm in diameter and 0.08 mm thick.The air bearing guide was 2.54 cm long having opposed surfaces 0.03 cm apart and 0.95 cm in length. The orifices were in walls 0.18 m thick and spaced equidistant from each other starting approximately 0.64 cm in from a lateral edge in Figure 3 and 0.48 cm from the right hand edge in Figure 2 as measured to axis of the orifice . The orifices themselves were 0.033 cm in diameter.