# Building cladding panels and structures incorporating such panels.

## Abstract
Each of a plurality of cladding panels 20 has an enclosed volume defined by corrugated metal inner and outer skins 30, 31 and side members 32, the enclosed volume containing a fireproof insulating material 36. A building has a structure com prising a plurality of parallel portal frames 19 inwardly of which a purlin framework 25, 28, 29 is rigidly secured. Outwardly ex tending projections 33 of the panels 20 are rigidly secured to the framework 25, 28, 29, and insulating elements 45, 46 cover the inner sides of the framework 25, 28, 29 between the panels 20. Sealing means 41 are provided between the panels 20 and the framework 25, 28, 29, outwardly of the panels 20.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A building comprising a structure havIng a pluralIty of portal frames 19 in spaced parallel relationship, a purlin framework 25 rigidly secured to said portal frame structure, and a plurality of panels 20 secured to said purlin framework 25 , characterized in that said panels 2G are secured to said purlin framework 25 inwardly of said portal frame structure and each said panel 20 comprises a metal outer skin 30 , a retal inner skin 31 spaced from said outer skin 30 , side members 32,35 on all edges of the panel 20 to define an enclosed volume therein, saId building also including insulating cover elements 45 which extend between edges of adjacent panels 20 and surround the inner sides of members of said purlin framework 25 , said cover elements 45 containing a fireproof insulatIng material 46 , said panels 20 and said cover elements 45 combining to provide a fire resistance layer. 2. A building as claimed in Claim 1, in which said portal frame structure is secured to said purlin framework 25 by connections 26,27,61,62 which can effect load transfer between said structure and said framework 25 . 3. A building as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2, whichIncludes a sealing arrangement 41,44,51 extending between the edges of the panels 20 outwardly of said purlin frameor 25 . 4. A building as claimed in any preceding Claim, in which each said portal frame 19 comprises a horizontal truss 10 and vertical supports 11,12 at respective ends of the truss 10 , said truss 10 having a joint arrangement 18 between its ends, such that inner elements of the truss 10 are maintained in compression in both directions of load on the truss 10 . 5. A cladding panel for a building, said panel being characterized by a metal outer skin 30 , a metal Inner skin 31 spaced from said outer skin 30 , side members 32,35 on all of the edges of the panel, to define an enclosed volume therein, and a fire resistant filling for said volume, at ieast two opposite edges of said panel being provided with projections 33 for engagement with purlins 28,29 of a structure on which the panel is to be mounted. 6. A panel as claimed in Claim 5, in which said outer and inner skins 30,31 are corrugated and are arranged so that the surfaces of the corrugations on the skins 30,31 are substantially parallel, whereby said enclosed volume has a substantially constant spacing between the skins 30,31 . 7. A panel as claimed in Claim 5 or Claim 6, in which said panel is rectangular and projections 33 for engagement with a purlin framework are provided on all four edges of the panel.

## Description
Technical Field This invention relates to cladding panels or buildings, and to buildings incorporating cladding panels.Background Art It is known to provide buildings having a metal frame structure to which cladding panels are secured to enclose a space within the building. It is necessary that the frame structure should be protected from heat within the building so that in the event of fire the rigidity of the structure lell be retained, and its collapse delayed, as long as possible. A solution to this problem is to provide that the cladding panels are located inwardly of the frame structure. In such an arrangement the panels, and theJoints between them must therefore have adequate fire resistance. It is an object of the present invention to provide panels lçhich can be assembled to provide a weatherproof cladding which is fire resistant over substantially the whole of its area, and which provide thermal insulation.Disclosure of the InventIon According to the invention a cladding panel comprises a metal outer skin, a metal inner skin spaced from said outer skin, side members on all of the edges of the panel, to define an enclosed volume therein, and a fire resistant filler within said volume, at least two opposite edges of the panel being provided with projections for engagement with purlins of a structure on which the panels are to be mounted The invention also resides in the mounting of a plurality of panels as aforesaid inwardly of a portal frame structure in a manner which assists the inner members of the portal frame to resist compressive loads. In a preferred embodiment said inner and outer skins are corrugated and are arranged so that the surfaces of the corrugations on the outer skin are substantially parallel with those on the timer skin, whereby said enclosed volume has a substantially constant dimension between said sins. According to another aspect of the Invention there is provided a portal frame structure, a purlin framework secured to said structure inwardly thereof, and a plurality of panels as aforesaId secured to said purlins, Inwardly of said portal frame structureBrief Description of the Drawings Figure 1 is a sectional elevation of a portal frame structure, inwardly of which a plurality of cladding panels are secured, Figure 2 is a view on arrow 2 in Figure 1, Figure 3 is a pictorial view of a purl in framework, in relation to the portal frame structure, Figure 4 is a section through the longer edges of a cladding panel, Figures 5 and 6 are sections, to an enlarged scale, on lines 5 5 and 606 in Figure 2, Figure 7 is an exploded pictorial view showing the method of at ach ..ent of the purl in franiework to the portal frame structure, and Figure 8 shows the method of connecting adjacent ends of cover strips which are shown in Figures 5 and 5.Best ode of Carri out the Invention As shown in Figure 1 a portal frame has a horizontal truss 10 and two vertical support structures 11,12 which are mounted on the ground by means of respective pivot joints 13, 14. A pivot joint 15 interconnects the lower horizontal member 16, 17 of the truss 10, and a fleviole linkage 18 interconnects the upper horizontal members of the truss 10.The arrangement provides a modIfication of a three pin portal frame in which the lower horizontal members 16, 17 are under compression during both upward and do.mward loading of the truss 1C, but the linkage 18 provides that the upper members of the truss are under tension during upward loading only. As idfcated in Figure 2 a building framework comprises a plurality of portal frames 19, as above described, arranged in spaced parallel relationship. A plurality of cladding panels 20 is secured to a purlin framewor not shown in Figures 1 and 2 secured inwardly of the portal frame structure. Eacb of the panels 20 is generally rectangular and has a length such tat it can pass, with a small clearance, between two adjacent portal frames 19. The panels 20 are mounted on a purlin framework which is rigidly secured to the portal frame structure so as to provide for load transfer between the portal frames and the purlin framework. Pesistance to compressive buckling of the lower members 16, 17 of the portal frames is greatly increased by tlle purlin framework and the panels 20. As shown in Figure 3 a purlin framework comprises a plurality of parallel box section purlins 25 having internally threaded projections welded whereto. The proJections 5 are rigidly secured, by means describe hereafter with reference to Figure , to internally threaded projections 27 welded to the inner runs of the portal frames 19. Angie members 28 are secured to the purlins 25 along their lengths, and further angle members 29 have their ends secured to the purl ins 25 to maintain the latter in spaced parallel relationship.A U shaped cover strip 45 is secured, as described hereafter, to the underside of each run of the purlins 25 and retains a layer 46 of mineral fibre insulation. In Figure 4 sections through opposite long edges of a panel 20 are shown. Each of the panels 25 has an outer mild steel sin 30 and an inner mild steel skin 31.Both of these skins are pre coated with a finish zihich is commercially available under the desIgnation FVF2. Mild steel edge members 32, of thicker gauge than the skins 30, 31 are secured between the skins to hold them apart in parallel relationship. The outer parts of the edge embers 32 are cranked as shown at 33 to provide projections for the panels 20 as a whole, these projections being engageable with the angle members 28 Figure 3 .The panel skins 3C, 31 are corrugated. The corrugations 34 are generally trapezoidal in section and in the present example are, as shown In Figure 2, arranged in three groups of 8 corrugations each. In the outer skin the corrugations extend upwardly of the plane of the remainder of the skin, and in the skin 31 the corrugations are depressed below the surface of the remainder of the sin.The corrugations 34 on the skins 30,31 are aligned so that the space between the skins 30,31 is substantially constant over the whole of the area of the panels 20. As shown in Figure 6 edge members 35 are secured to the skins 30,31 along the shorter edges of the panels 20 and in conjunction with the skins 30,31 and edge members 32 define closed volumes within the panels 20. These volumes are filled with a mineral fibre heat resisting material, indicated at 36. Spring clIps 37 are rivetted to the outsides of the edge members 32,35, and engage and retain complementary projections on cover strips, as shown in Figures 5 and 5. As shown in Figure 5 two steel channels 40 are secured lengthwise along the outside of each purlin 25 and locate ethylene propylene gaskets 1 each of which has a plurality of ridges on both its sides. Botch sides of the channels 40 are provided with steps, and extension 42 of the outer skins 30 of the panels ae turned down so as to be able to enter the channels 40 and sealingly engage the gaskets 41. A U shaped external cover strip 44 is in snap engagement with the remaining sides of the channels 40 and also engages the gaskets 41. As shown in Figure 5 an internal cover strip is provided by a steel channel 45 whose length corresponds to the longer dimension of the panels 20. Mineral fibre heat resistant material 46 is adllesively secured within the strips 45, so that when the strips are in position the material 45 lies between strips 45 and the box section purlins 25. The strips 45 have projections 48 sçnich are engageable with snap action in the clips 37 to retain the strips 45 in position between the longer edges of the panels 20. The dimensions of the cover strips 45 are such that they lie closely adjacent, or in contact with, the edge members 32, and therby provide a continuity of insulation between adjacent edges of the panels 20. The joins between the shorter edges of the panels 20 are shown in Figure 6, and are generally similar to that shown in Figure 5. In Figure 6, however, channels 50, similar to the channels 40 previously described, are mounted on respective ones of the angle members 29. The channels 50 carry gaskets 41 identical with those previously described, and extensions of the outer skins 30 of the panels 20 engage the channels 50 with snap action and also sealingly engage the gaskets 41 therein, in a like manner to that previously described with reference to Figure i. An external cover strip 51, generally similar to the cover strip 44 described above but substantially wider, also engages the channels 50 and their gaskets 41. Further cover strips 52, identical in section with the strips 45 previously described, but having lengths corresponding to the shorter edges of the panels 20, have mineral fibre insulation layers 53 adhesively secured to them. The cover strips 52 are pushed up into snap engagement with spring clips 37 on the edge members 35 of the panels 20, to provide a heat resistant barrier between these edges. It will be appreciated that the cover strips 45,52, which are of relatively thin steel, may be deformed transversely reiatively easily by pressure from adjacent edges of the panels 20, should the panels expand as a result of heat. The strips 45,52, and their mineral fibre insulation, thus provide expansion joints at the edges of the panels 20. As indicated in Figure 7 the external cover strips 44,51 engage cruciform elements 50, each of which is located in the region of a projection 27 on a portal frame 19. As described above, the projections 26 on the purlins 25 have internal threads. The projections 27 on the portal frames 19 have internal threads of opposite hand. A coupler screw 61 has respective threads for engagement with the projections 26, 7, and a rectangular central portion on which a collar 62 is slidably and nonrotatably mounted. Rotation of the screw 61 by the collar 62 may thus urge flat end faces of the projectIons 26,27 into clamping engagement with the flat end faces of the collar 52, to provide for transfer of loads between the portal frame structure and the purlin framework.The panels 20 are rigidly secured to the portal frame structure by means of suitably spaced holes 53 therein. The resulting assembly 26, 27,62 passes sealingly through the element 60, sealing being effectad by grommet 64 Figure 6 mounted on the element 60. Rebates 65 on the elements 60 permit overlapping between these elements and the cover strips 44,51, and thereby provide a flush surface for engagement by the gaskets 41. As shown in Figure 8 the ends of the internal cover strips 45 have steps 70 which are mitred at 71. AdJacent the mitres 71 the steps 70 have inwardly folded tabs 76 which cat slidably receive a to,rue 72 on a cruciform connector 73. The connectors 73 are located inwardly of the structure as a whole, adjacent respective ones of the elements 60 Figure 7 . The connector 73 has a central well 74 within which mineral fibre insulation is secured, to complete the continuity of insulation between the ends of the strips 45. As shown in Figures 5 and 6, electric cables 75 may conveniently be led through the spaces within the cover strips 45, 52, and are protected from heat within the building by the mineral fibre insulation 46. Generally, the panels 20 co operate with the internal cover strips 45, 52 to provide fire resistaiice, and with the external cover strips 4 ,51 and the gaskets 41 to provide sealing against weather.