# Phonograph record conditioner.

## Abstract
A method of conditioning a phonograph record comprises applying a very thin film thereto of a quaternary ammonium salt having at least one long hydrocarbon chain. Preferred compositions have the formula CHEM wherein R1 is a hydrocarbon radical having from 8 to 22 carbon atoms, R2 is a hydrocarbon radical having 8 to 22 carbons, C1 C4 alkyl, quaternary ammonium alkylene, or benzyl, and R3 and R4 are C1 C4 alkyl or CH2CH2O nH, wherein n is an integer from 1 to 20, and X is a watersoluble salt forming anion. The compound is applied by spraying small quantities of a solution containing a minor amount of the salt dissolved in a solvent on a soft applicator and pressing the applicator against the record while the moving relative to the applicator.

## Claims
1. A onogr rec pri r film of a mono or di quaten ary ammo um lt having at least one hydrocarbon chain of ai. least 8 carbon atoms. Claim 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the quaternary ammonium salt has the formulaEMI11.1 wherein R1 is a hydrocarbon radical having from 8 to 22 carbon atoms, R2 is a hydrocarbon radical having 8 to 22 carbons, C1 C4 alkyl, quaternary ammonium alkylene, or benzyl, and R3 and R4 are C1 C4 alkyl or CH2CH2O nH, wherein n is an integer from 1 to 20, andX is a water soluble salt forming anion. Claim 3. The method of claim 1 wherein R3 and R4 are C1 C4 alkyl. Claim 4. The method of claim 1 wherein R3 and R4 are methyl. Claim 5. The method of claim 1 wherein a solution of quaternary ammonium salt in a volatile solvent is applied to a soft, nonabrasive applicator, and the applicator is subsequently contacted with the record surface with relative movement therebetween. Claim 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the solution is applied to the applicator by spraying a mist thereof on the applicator. Claim 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the applicator on which mist has been sprayed is contacted with a soft, nonabrasive pad prior to contacting with the record surface. Claim 8. The method of claim 5 wherein the record is placed on a turntable, the turntable is rotated, and the applicator is contacted with the record during rotation. Claim 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the salt is applied in a solution having from about 0.5 5 vol. of quaternary ammonium salt, with the balance comprising a volatile solvent. Claim 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the quaternary ammonium salt is dimethyl ditallow ammonium chloride. Claim 11. The method of claim in the alide. Claim 12. A solution for treating the sur face of a phonograph record which comprises from about O. to about 5 by volume of a quaternary ammonium salt having the formulaEMI13.1 wherein R1 is a hydrocarbon radical having from 8 to 22 carbon atoms, R2 is a hydrocarbon radical having 8 to 22 carbons, C1 C4 alkyl, quaternary ammonium alkylene, or benzyl, and R3 and R4 are C1 C4 alkyl or CH2CH2O nH, wherein n is an integer from 1 to 20, andX is a water soluble salt forming anion, and the balance comprising a solvent.

## Description
PHONOGRAPH RECORD CONDITIONER BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to a method and compositions for conditioning phonograph records by application of a very thin film of certain quaternary ammonium compounds. In addition to cleaning and destaticizing the record, remarkable and measurable audible improvements in audio playback quality are achieved. The cleaning of phonograph record surfaces is a well recognized and long standing problem. While it is essential to remove dirt and other contaminants from very small grooves on the surface, even a slight scratching of the grooves can affect the reproduction quality. Known methods for cleaning a record surface include simple mechanical removal of dust with a brush or air jet stream, although these methods are generally not particularly effective if the dust is adhesive to the surface, whether by its own physical c.,aracteris tics or with an electrostatic charge, or for inherently sticky substances, such as fingerprints. Rubbing of the surface with cleaners which may have abrasive contaminants is also dangerous to the integrity of the grooves.A somewhat more elaborate type of brushoperated cleaner is shown in Taylor, US 3,150,401, wherein a record is rotated through a series of brushes, and strips of polonium impregnated material are located in the vicinity of the record to drain off static electricity. yp f à ers consist ha rollers, c mm n y wrapped wich an ad so fng faeing outward, such that as the roll tr erses the record surface, dust deposited on the 5i c is picked up and retained by the roller. A devce of this type is disclosed in US 3,958,292.Another roller type cleaner is disclosed in Kawabe,US 4,128,909. While several of the known surface cleaning treatments are adequate to remove dust from the record surface, none of the known treatments has any appreciable effect on the actual sound reproduction qualities of the record. It has been found in accordance with the present invention that application of a very thin film of certain quaternary ammonium compounds to the record surface not only cleans the record and leaves it static free, but improves stylus life, and remarkably enhances the aural qualities of the record. The quaternary ammonium compounds useful in the treatment of the invention are commonly used as fabric softeners, and generally comprise cationic nitrogen containing compounds having one or two straight chained organic radicals of at least 8 carbon atoms and preferably containing at least one straight chain organic radical containing from 12 to 22 carbon atoms. Accordingly, it is an object of the present invention to provide a composition for application to a phonograph record surface which improves the aural qualities of the record in addition to cleaning and destaticizing the surface. It is a further object of the invention to provide a thin, long lasting coating for a phonograph record that will subsist for a subs tan tial number of plays before recoating is necessary. It is yet a further object of the invention to provide a method of application of a thin film of quaternary ammonium compound which permits the material to be applied with a very thin, even coating, to the record, without leaving any undue accumulations of material on the record. BRiEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION A conditioning solution for treatment of phonograph record surfaces comprises a minor amount of a quaternary ammonium compound having at least one straight chained organic, preferably aliphatic, radical containing from about 8 to about 22 carbon atoms, in a solvent therefor. A method of applying such solution to the record surface comprises applying, preferably by spraying, a small amount of liquid on an applicator pad, permitting the solvent to evaporate and pressing the pad against the surface of a rotating record. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION In its broad sense, the invention relates to the use of certain organic compounds to form a benefi ciao very thin coating on the surface of a phonograph record. The compounds used are quaternary ammonium compounds which are commercially available and commonly used as fabric softeners. These compounds are dissolved in minor amounts, generally 0.5 5 by volume, preferably 1 3 by volume, of a suitable solvent. In particular, the quaternary ammonium compounds of the invention have the following formula EMI4.1 wherein R1 is a hydrocarbon radical having from 8 to 22 carbon atoms, R2 is a hydrocarbon radical having 8 to 22 carbons, C1 Cq alkyl, quaternary ammonium alkylene, or benzyl, and R3 and R4 are C1 C4 alkyl or CH2CH20 nH, wherein n is an integer from 1 to 20, and X is a watersoluble salt forming anion. In the case in which R2 is quaternary ammonium alkyl, the cation will have two positive charges, and two anions X will be necessary. Examples of suitable compounds for use in the invention include dimethyl ditallow ammonium chloride, didodecyldimethyl ammonium chloride, tetradecyltrimethyl ammonium chloride, ditetradecyldimethyl ammonium chloride, M,N,N1,N1,N1 pentamethyl N tallow l,3 propane diammonium dichloride, pentadecyltrimethyl ammonium chloride, dipentadecyldimethyl ammonium chloride, didodecyldiethyl ammonium chloride, didodecyldipropyl ammonium chloride, ditetradecyldiethyl ammonium chloride, ditetradecyldipropyl ammonium chloride, ditallowdiethyl ammonium chloride, ditallowdipropyl ammonium chloride, tallowdimethyl benzyl ammonium chloride, N,N,N1,N1,N1 pentamethyl N coco 1,2 ethane diammonium di chloride, tallowdiethyl benzyl ammonium chloride, dodecyltrimethyl ammonium methyl sulfate, didodecyldiethyl ammonium acetate, tallowtrimethyl ammonium acetate, tallowdimethyl benzyl ammonium nitrite, ditallowdipropyl ammonium phosphate, ethoxylated distearyl dimethyl ammonium sulfate, trimethyl stearyl ammonium bromide, dicoco dimethyl ammonium sulfate, eicosyltrimethyl ammonium chloride. In the above formula, R1 and R2 are preferably aliphatic, but may be aryl, alkaryl, or aralkyl.The anion X is preferably a halide, i.e., chloride, bromide, or iodide, but may be sulfate, acetate, hydroxide, methasulfate, or similar inorganic or organic solubilizing mono or dibasic radicals. The term tallow refers to long chain aliphatic groups that are derived from tallow, being composed principally of hydrocarbon groups containing from 16 to 18 carbon atoms. The term coco refers to coconut oil derived radicals, generally containing from 8 to 18 carbon atoms, predominately 12 to 14 carbons. The quaternary ammonium compounds of the invention are dissolved in minor amounts in an appropriate solvent for application. In general, a relatively volatile organic solvent is preferred. Mono alkyl quaternaries are soluble in water, methanol, ethanol, isopropanol, carbon tetrachloride, and chloroform. Dialkyl quaternary salts are insoluble in water, but are soluble in benzene, chloroform, carbon tetrachloride, methanol, ethanol, and isopropanol. Alkylbenzyl ammonium chlorides are are soluble in water, acetone, alcohol, and most polar solvents. Ethoxylated quaternary salts are soluble in water, isopropanol, methanol, ethanol, acetone, benzene, carbon tetrachloride, hexylene glycol, and dioxane. Diquaternary salts are doluble in water, alcohols, carbon tetrachloride, and chloroform.By minor amounts is meant up to about 10 by volume, preferably 0.5 5 by volume, and more preferably from about 1 3 by volume of quaternary ammonium salt, with the balance comprising solvent. In general, it is desired to have a solution which is nonviscous i.e., viscosity similar to water and which will not separate at ambient temperatures concentrations may very depending on the particular salt chosen.For example, hydrogenated salts, e.g. dimethyl di hydro genated tallow ammonium chloride, are solids at room temperature and will generally be used in somewhat lower concentrations. Simple mixtures of the salts and ves are used in some cases, it may be necessary o ileat the components to facilitate solution. The solvent performs no part in the final coating of quaternary ammonium compound, and serves merely as a vehicle to transport these compounds in non viscous form and to permit even application of small amounts of those compounds on an applicator or on the record surface. Volatile solvents, particularly those which will evaporate completely in less than about 10 seconds, are preferred. It has also been found that a slight amount of water in an organic solvent appears to provide superior applicability of the solutions of the invention for example, ethanol solutions containing 2 10 preferably 3 5 deionized water, are slightly superior to anhydrous ethanol. The conditioning solution of the invention is preferably applied by means of a spray. The solution can be applied with a conventional hand pump sprayer bottle, or with an aerosol container equipped with a spray nozzle and a manually operable valve. The propellant used may lue any conventional material, such as a fluorocarbon, lower hydrocarbon e.g., propane or butane , or carbon dioxide. Carbon dioxide is particularly useful since it is non flammable and non toxic.A highly volatile propellant is preferred. The method of application of the quarternary ammonium solution to the phonograph record surface is very important. While the solutions can be applied directly to the record, by spray or otherwise, it has been found that direct application can frequently result in undesirable accumulations of salt on the record. A very thin, uniform film of material, preferably no more than a few molecules thick, is particularly desirable. The preferred method of application of quaternary ammonium salt to the record is as follows.First, a small amount e.g., spray for 1 3 seconds of solution is sprayed on a soft cloth or pad. The cloth or pad is then rubbed gently against a clean cloth or pad similar to the first one to assist in evaporating solvent and uniformly distributing the quaternary salt.Alternatively, the user should wait for about 10 seconds after the pad has been sprayed to permit the solvent to volatilize. The record to be conditioned is then placed on a conventional turntable and is rotated at a relatively high speed, e.g., 45 or 78 r.p.m. If desired, the record can be rotated by hand. The treated cloth or pad is then pressed lightly against the record in a stationary position, with the record grooves passing therebeneath. This treatment is then applied to the entire surface, including the label, of each side of the record, until the surface feels very slippery or sots. This effect is very noticeable to the person applying the treatment. The record has a slightly shiny appearance indicating that the salt has been applied, although the record should not appear wet during treatment. Treatment of the label portion of the record as well as the grooves is recommended to destaticize the entire record.This method of application provides a uniform, thin film on the surface. In addition to cleaning the surface of the record, lubricating the grooves, and removing static charges from the surface, the treatment of the invention has a consistent effect of improving the aural qualities of the record. Experts who have tested solutions of the invention indicate that surface noise is lower, and fidelity, particularly at high frequency range, is markedly improved. This effect is illustrated in the following example. Example A solution of the invention was prepared by mixing dimethyl ditallow ammonium chloride, a brown liquid marketed by Armak Company under the trade nameArquad 2T 75, with ethanol and water to form the following solution vol. dimethyl ditallow ammonium chloride 1.4 deionized water 3.0 ethanol 95.6 This solution was packaged in an aerosol container with an isobutane propellant. Two short bursts of about 1 second each were applied to a soft velour pad, which was subsequently rubbed lightly against another like pad. The first pad was then lightly pressed against a record rotating at 45 rpm on a turntable, the treatment being applied to the entirety of each side. Tests using acoustical experts who listened to the record carefully before and after treatment indicate that the reproduction of sounds from the record were significantly superior after treatment. One expert stated that the treatment seemed to take a mask off of the record. While the particular type of pad used to apply the salt is not critical, it should be soft, nonabrasive, and non shedding. A particularly preferred applicator is a cosmetic grade velour powder puff, which has been used with considerable success. While the treatment according to the invention is not permanent, it will last for a substantial number of repeated playings. The number of playings between treatments will vary with frequency of play, humidity, type of stylus, tracking force, and other variables, but is frequently at least 10 separate uses.