# A fluorescent lamp.

## Abstract
A compact fluorescent lamp 10 having a vacuum tube 1 which is convoluted in shape, and having a wall loading be tween 600 and 900 W m² is disclosed. The inner surface of the tube is coated with a phosphor layer 2 including a blue light emitting phosphor, a green light emitting phosphor and a red light emitting phosphor. The red light emitting phosphor is at least 40 percent of the phosphor layer by weight and the phos phor layer is as resistant to ultraviolet radiation as a convention al straight tube.

## Claims
1 fluorescent lamp cbimprgsi ng a vacuum tight radiation transmitting tube mercury and rare gas in said tube electrodes in said tube between which discharge takes place during operation and a phosphor layer coating a surface of said tube, said phosphor layer including a plurality of phosphors including at least a red light emitting phosphor, at least 40 percent by weight of said phosphor layer being said red light emitting phosphor. 2. A compact fluorescent lamp comprising a vacuum tight radiation transmitting convoluted tube having a wall loading in the range of 2 600 900 Wiz mercury and rare gas in said tube electrodes in said tube between which discharge takes place during operation and a phosphor layer coating a surface of said tube, said phosphor layer including a plurality of phosphors including at least a red light emitting phosphor, at least 40 percent by weight of said phosphor layer being said red light emitting phosphor. 3. A fluorescent lamp according to claim 2, wherein said phosphor layer is disposed directly on an inner surface of said tube. 4. A fluorescent lamp according to claim 2further comprising another phosphor layer disposed between said phosphor layer and said tube. 5. A fluorescent lamp according to claim 4, wherein said other phosphor layer includes a calcium halophosphate phosphor. 6. A fluorescent lamp according to any of claims 2 to 5, wherein said red lightemitting phosphor comprises yttrium oxide activated by europium. 7. A fluorescent lamp according to any of claims 2 to 6, wherein said phosphor layer includes a blue light emitting phosphor and a green lightemitting phosphor. 8. A fluorescent lamp according to claim 7, wherein said blue light emitting phosphor is at least one of a strontium calcium halophosphate activated by europium barium magnesium aluminate activated by europium a strontium calcium barium halo boro phosphate activated by europium and strontium chlorophosphate activated by europium and said green light emitting phosphor is at least one of lanthanum phosphate activated by cerium and terbium magnesium aluminate activated by cerium and terbium iu ilicate ated by ceri and cerum and lanthanum silicophosphate activated by cerium and terbium. 9. A fluorescent lamp according to any of claims 2 to 8, wherein said tube includes at least one U shaped portion. 10. A fluorescent lamp according to claim 9, wherein said tube includes three U shaped portions.

## Description
A FLUORESCENT LAMP The present invention relates to a fluorescent lamp, for example to a compact fluorescent lamp having a vacuum tight radiation transmitting tube including at least one U shaped portion. Fluorescent lamps are widely used because of their high luminous efficiency in comparison with incandescent lamps and it is advantageous to use fluorescent lamps instead of incandescent lamps fromthe standpoint of electric power consumption. In order to replace an incandescent lamp with a fluorescent lamp, it is necessary for a fluorescent lamp to be made a compact size, such as with a vacuum tight radiation transmitting tube including a U shaped portion or even three Ushaped portions, to obtain a light output as great as that of an incandescent lamp. Consequently, the diameter of the tubular envelope of a fluorescent lamp must become small according to its compact lamp size. For example, published United Kingdom patent Application Serial No 2,033,653 describes such a compact fluorescent lamp. Owing to the reduction of the envelope diameter, not only wall loading W m lamp watts per square metre but also the ampere density of the fluorescent lamp are increased. Moreover, about 185 nanometer nm wavelength ultraviolet radiation is increased as well as about 254 nm wavelength ultraviolet radiation. Generally, ultraviolet radiation having a wavelength about 254 nm is converted to visible radiation by the phosphor layer but about 185 nm wavelength radiation is not efficiently converted to visible radiation by the phosphor. Moreover, 185 nm wavelength radiation damages conventional phosphors, such as calcium halophosphate phosphors which are now used in almost all types of fluorescent lamps for general illumination purposes. So, it is impossible to obtain the desired light output. According to the present invention from one aspect, there is provided a fluorescent lamp comprising a vacuum tight radiation transmitting tube mercury and rare gas in said tube electrodes in said tube between which discharge takes place during operation and a phosphor layer coating a surface of said tube, said phosphor layer including a plurality of phosphors including at least a red light emitting phosphor, at least 40 percent by weight of said phosphor layer being said red light emitting phosphor. According to the present invention from another aspectthere is provided a compact fluorescent lamp comprising a vacuum tight radiation transmitting convoluted tube having 2 a wall loading in the range of 600 900 Wim mercury and rare gas in said tube electrodes in said tube between which discharge takes place during operation and a phosphor layer coating a surface of said tube, said phosphor layer including a plurality of phosphors including at least a red light emitting phosphor, at least 40 percent by weight of said phosphor layer being said red light emitting phosphor. The present invention will now be described by way of example with reference to the single figure of the accompanying drawing, which is a perspective view, partly broken away, of a compact fluorescent lamp. Referring now to the figure, reference numeral 10 designates a compact fluorescent lamp for 100V 15W having a vitreous convoluted tube with a superposed phosphor layer 2. Sealed in each end of the tube 1 is a respective one of stems 3, each comprising an electrode, supported by lead in wires 4. The tube 1 encloses a quantity of mercury and a quantity of rare gas to sustain a low pressure, ultraviolet generating discharge between the electrodes, during operation. Selection of the quantity of mercury and rare gas is made in the same manner as for conventional fluorescent tubes and is well known in the art. The inner diameter of the tube 1 is about 15 mm and the wall loading of the tube 1 is about 705 W m2. Any suitable phosphors may be used. As a blue light emitting phosphor, one may select at least one from a strontium calcium halophosphate activated by europium barium magnesium aluminate activated by europium a strontium calcium barium halo boro phosphate activated by europium and strontium chlorophosphate activated by europium.As a green light emitting phosphor, one may select at least one from lanthanum phosphate activated by cerium and terbium magnesium aluminate activated by cerium and terbium yttrium silicate activated by cerium and terbium and lanthanum silicophosphate activated by cerium and terbium. As a red light emitting phosphor,one may select yttrium oxide activated by europium. A mixture phosphor is made by using three kinds of phosphors mixed in the proper ratio, e.g. as a blue light emitting phosphor,a strontium calcium chlorophosphate activated by europium 3 Sr3 PO4 2CaCl2 Eu hereinafter called a B phosphor as a green light emitting phosphor, yttrium silicate activated by cerium and terbium Y2SiO5 Ce,Tb hereinafter called a G phosphor , and as a red light emitting phosphor, yttrium oxide activated by europium Y203 Eu hereinafter called a R phosphor . The present inventors have produced a compact fluorescent lamp with a convoluted tube for 100V 15W so as to have its colour temperature 3,0000K by using the above mentioned B , G and R phosphors. The specific luminous flux as well as the lumen maintenance factor after lighting for 1,000 hours have been tested.The results, including values from using a conventional phospllor layer as a reference, are shown in the following Table 1. Table 1 EMI6.1 Test SEP Number SEP Phosphors tb Kind SEP Mixture SEP Average SEP particle SEP Colour SEP Specific SEP Lumen tb ratio SEP diameter SEP of SEP R SEP temperature SEP luminous SEP maintenance tb weight SEP SEP phosphor SEP SEP SEP K SEP flux SEP SEP factor SEP tb B SEP 2 tb 1 SEP G SEP 43 SEP 4.0 SEP 3,000 SEP 116 SEP 91 tb R SEP 55 tb B SEP 2.5 tb 2 SEP G SEP 47.5 SEP 3.1 SEP 3,000 SEP 114.5 SEP 90 tb R SEP 50 tb Table 1 continued EMI7.1 Test SEP Number SEP Phosphors tb Kind SEP Mixture SEP Average SEP particle SEP Colour SEP Specific SEP Lumen tb ratio SEP diameter SEP of SEP R SEP temperature SEP luminous SEP maintenance tb weight SEP SEP phosphor SEP SEP SEP K SEP flux SEP SEP factor SEP tb B SEP 3 tb 3 SEP G SEP 54 SEP 2.2 SEP 3,000 SEP 113 SEP 88 tb R SEP 43 tb B SEP 3.5 tb 4 SEP G SEP 56.5 SEP 1.8 SEP 3,000 SEP 112 SEP 86 tb R SEP 40 tb Table 1 continued EMI8.1 Test SEP Number SEP Phosphors tb Kind SEP Mixture SEP Average SEP particle SEP Colour SEP Specific SEP Lumen tb ratio SEP diameter SEP of SEP R SEP temperature SEP luminous SEP maintenance tb weight SEP SEP phosphor SEP SEP SEP K SEP flux SEP SEP factor SEP tb B SEP 4 tb 5 SEP G SEP 59 SEP 1.5 SEP 3,000 SEP 110 SEP 80 tb R SEP 37 tb Conventional SEP phosphor SEP layer SEP 3,000 SEP 100 SEP 85 tb As shown in the Table 1, the specific luminous flux is relatively high for test numbers 1 to 4, and there is substantially no deterioration of the specific luminous flux after lighting for 1,000 hours in comparison with using the conventional phosphor layer. However the drop of the lumen maintenance factor is outstanding for test number 5 although the specific luminous flux is high compared with using the conventional phosphor layer.It is considered that this is due to the fact that the containing ratio of R phosphor is low less than 40 by weight , so the B and G phosphors are deteriorated by 185 nm wavelength ultraviolet radiation. Therefore, it can be understood that the mixture ratio of the above R phosphor is required to be at least 40 by weight in order to obtain at least the same lumen maintenance factor as that of using the conventional phosphor layer. In addition, the present inventors have prepared other mixture phosphors i and ii shown in the following Table 2 using other B and G phosphors in the proper ratio. Tests have been done in respect of a compact fluorescent lamp for 100V 15W. The results are shown in the followingTable 3. Table 2 EMI10.1 Mixture SEP phosphor SEP Phosphors tb Blue SEP phosphor SEP Green SEP phosphor SEP Red SEP phosphor tb 3 SEP Sr3 PO4 .Ca SEP Cl2 Eu SEP LaPO4 Ce, SEP Tb SEP Y2O3 Eu tb i tb B SEP phosphor SEP G1 SEP phosphor SEP R SEP phosphor tb BaMg2Al16O27 Eu SEP MgAl11O19 Ce, SEP Tb SEP Y2O3 Eu tb ii tb B1 SEP phosphor SEP G2 SEP phosphor SEP R SEP phosphor tb Table 3 EMI11.1 Phosphor tb Test SEP Mixture SEP Colour SEP Specific tb Number SEP phosphor SEP temperature SEP luminous tb Kind SEP Average SEP Mixture tb flux SEP tb particle SEP ratio SEP SEP K tb diameter SEP Weight SEP tb tb B SEP 5.0 SEP 2 tb 6 SEP i SEP G1 SEP 4.5 SEP 38 SEP 3,000 SEP 117 tb R SEP 2.2 SEP 60 tb B SEP 5.0 SEP 2 tb 7 SEP i SEP G1 SEP 4.5 SEP 32 SEP 3,000 SEP 119 tb R SEP 4.0 SEP 66 tb B SEP 3.0 SEP 1.7 tb 8 SEP ii SEP G2 SEP 4.0 SEP 34.3 SEP 3,000 SEP 113 tb R SEP 2.2 SEP 63 tb Table 3 continued EMI12.1 Phosphor tb Test SEP Mixture SEP Colour SEP Specific tb Number SEP phosphor SEP temperature SEP luminous tb Kind SEP Average SEP Mixture tb particle SEP ratio SEP SEP K SEP flux SEP tb diameter SEP Weight SEP tb tb B1 SEP 3.0 SEP 1.5 tb 9 SEP ii SEP G2 SEP 4.0 SEP 30.5 SEP 3,000 SEP 116 tb R SEP 4.0 SEP 68 tb B SEP 5.0 SEP 16 tb 10 SEP i SEP G1 SEP 4.5 SEP 40 SEP 4,200 SEP 114 tb R SEP 2.2 SEP 44 tb B SEP 5.0 SEP 14 tb 11 SEP i SEP G1 SEP 4.5 SEP 37 SEP 4,200 SEP 116.5 tb R SEP 4.0 SEP 49 tb zLz red light emittIng spho i 1 40 by weight of the mixture phosphor, it is possible to obtain the desired colour temperature and excellent specific luminous flux.This is unrelated the mixture ratio of the B phosphor blue light emitting phosphor and the G phosphor green light emitting phosphor . In the case that the wall loading is smaller than 600 W m2, the effect in accordance with the invention is little because the deterioration of the phosphor due to the 185 nm wavelength ultraviolet radiation is little. On the other hand, in the case that the wall loading is larger than 900 W m2, the temperature of the convoluted tube increases. As a result, the mercury vapour pressure in the airtight tube becomes high, and thus the luminous efficiency is down. Another experiment using two phosphor layers has been carried out. That is, a first phosphor layer, disposed directly on the inner surface of the convoluted tube, is composed of a calcium halophosphate activated by antimony and manganese. A second phosphor layer coated on the first phosphor layer is composed of the same component as shown in Test number 7 in the Table 3. The result has been shown to have the same effect as is shown in the Table 3, i.e. as regards the specific luminous flux and the operative characteristics. It is considered that this is attributable to the fact that the 185 nm wavelength ultraviolet radiation was converted to visible light by the red light emitting phosphor in the second phosphor layer and does not reach the first phosphor layer composed of a calcium halophosphate activated by antimony and manganese . The vacuum tight radiation transmitting convoluted tube 1 has at least one U shaped portion and a wall loading in the range of 600 900W m2 and an inner diameter of the tube in the range of 10 20 mm are suitable for practical use.