# Master cylinder.

## Abstract
A master cylinder comprising a housing 12 with an axial bore 14 , first and second pistons 32, 34 slidably disposed within the bore and defining therewith a pair of pressure chambers 76, 96 , a fixed sleeve 50 surrounding said pistons and having both its inner 77 and outer 75 surfaces exposed to the fluid pressure generated in one of said pressure chambers, and seals 60, 68, 70, 72 cooperat ing with the sleeve to seal same within said one pressure chamber According to this invention, the seals 60, 68 and 70, 72 are disposed in axially aligned pairs so that the forces caused by fluid pressure acting on the inner and outer surfaces of the sleeve balance mutually, thus making it possible to use a sleeve made from a lightweight plastic material For use in dual brake systems for automotive vehicles.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A master cylinder comprising a housing 12 with an axially extending bore 14 , a pair of pistons 32, 34 movably disposed within the bore 14 and defining therewith a pair of pressure chambers 76, 96 in which they generate fluid pressure when moving within the bore 14 , a sleeve 50 fixedly disposed within the bore 14 around said pistons and having an inner surface 77 and an outer surface 75 both exposed to the fluid pressure generated in one 76 of said pressure chambers, and two pairs of seals 60, 68 70, 72 cooperating with the sleeve to seal the latter within said one pressure chamber, characterized in that at least one pair 70, 72 or 60, 68 of said seals engage said sleeve 50 at substantially the same axial position so that fluid pressure acting against the inner surface adjacent said one pair of seals will be substantially offset by the fluid pressure acting against the outer surface adjacent the same pair of seals. 2. A master cylinder according to claim 1, characterized in that the sleeve 50 has a substantially uniform thickness except for one end 62 thereof which is provided with an enlarged thickness. 3. A master cylinder according to claim 2, characterized in that said one end 62 substantially adjoins one pair 70, 72 of said seals. 4. A master cylinder according to any of claims 1 to 3, and wherein the wall of the bore 14 defines a shoulder 53 which engages one of said seals 70 , characterized in that said shoulder 53 substantially aligns with another shoulder 55 formed on said sleeve and engaging another 72 of said seals. 5. A master cylinder according to any of claims 1 to 4, and further characterized in that the other pair of seals 60, 68 or 70, 72 sealingly engages the sleeve 50 and is disposed axially within the bore cm 4 in substantial alignment to offset the fluid pressure acting against the inner and outer surfaces of said sleeve. 6. A master cylinder according to any of claims 1 to 5, characterized in that said sleeve 50 is made from a plastic material.

## Description
MASTER CYLINDER The present invention relates to a master cylinder, and more particularly to a master cylinder of the kind used in dual brake systems for automotive vehicles. Such a master cylinder usually includes a housing which receives a pair of pistons movable during braking to generate fluid pressure in respective pressure chambers defined within the housing. In a displacement type master cylinder a pair of lip seals are fixedly disposed within the housing so that the pair of pistons move past the pair of lip seals, respectively. A master cylinder of this kind is illustrated, for instance, in United States Patent No. 4 249 381. The master cylinder disclosed in this patent is provided with a sleeve surrounding the pistons to locate the fixed positions for the pair of lip seals. One of the lip seals is disposed between the end of the sleeve and a shoulder on the housing, while the other lip seal is deposited between a shoulder on the sleeve and a bearing extending into the sleeve. When secured to the housing, this bearing, which slidably carries one of the pistons, holds said sleeve and pair of lip seals in a stationary position within the bore.Other seals cooperate with the housing, the pistons and the sleeve to define one of the pressure chambers and confine at least a portion of said sleeve therewithin. The fluid pressure generated in said one pressure chamber during braking thus acts against both the inner and outer surfaces of the sleeve, and, due to their different areas, tends to deform said sleeve which must be capable of resisting the resulting forces. This, in turn, leads to relatively high manufacturing costs for the master cylinder. It is, accordingly, an essential object of the present invention to eliminate this drawback of the known master cylinder and to reduce consequently the cost for its construction. This object is achieved, according to this invention, and in a master cylinder of the kind comprising a housing with an axially extending bore, a pair of pistons movably disposed within the bore and defining therewith a pair of pressure chambers in which they generate fluid pressure when moving within the bore, a sleeve fixedly disposed within the bore around said pistons and having an inner surface and an outer surface both exposed to the fluid pressure generated in one of said pressure chambers, and two pairs of seals cooperating with the sleeve to seal the latter within said one pressure chamber, thanks to the fact that at least one pair of said seals engage said sleeve at substantially the same axial position so that fluid pressure acting against the inner surface adjacent said one pair of seals will be substantially offset by the fluid pressure acting against the outer surface adjacent the same pair of seals. Thus, it is an advantage of the present invention that a lightweight plastic sleeve can be utilized with a displacement type master cylinder to permit an economical molding to be used to manufacture the plastic sleeve. This and other advantageous features of the invention will become readily apparent from reading the following description of a preferred embodiment, given by way of example only and with reference to the accompanying drawing which shows in longitudinal cross section a master cylinder constructed in accordance with the present invention. The master cylinder 10 shown in the drawing has a housing 12 in which is defined a bore 14. A reservoir 16 is formed by the housing 12 to camyfluid therein. A pair of compensation ports 18 and 20 communicate the fluid from the reservoir 16 to the bore 14 in a manner described hereinafter. A pair of outlet ports 22 and 24 communicate, respectively, with brake circuits 26 and 28. A brake pedal 30 is connected via suitable connecting means with a first piston 32 to move the latter into the bore 14 during braking. A second piston 34 is disposed within the bore 14 to move partly via spring 36 when the first piston 32 is moved.The spring 36 extends between a shoulder 38 on the first piston 32 and a retainer 40 which engages the second piston 34 and is engageable with a stem 41 to define a rest position for the second piston 34. A retraction spring 42 abutting a clip 13 biases the second piston to its rest position engaging retainer 40 and the retraction spring 42 also cooperates with spring 36 to bias the first piston 32 to its rest position abutting a flange 44 on a bearing 46. A sleeve 50 is fixedly disposed within the bore 14. The sleeve 50 includes a flange 52 at one end abutting a step 54 onthe wall of the bore 14. The sleeve forms a shoulder 56 which cooperates with a ring 58 to define a fixed position for a first lip seal 60. The other end 62 of the sleeve cooperates with another step 64 on the wall of the bore 14 to define a fixed position for a second lip seal 66. A first O ring seal 68 sealingly engages the outer surface of sleeve 50 and the wall of bore 14 near the port 18. A second 0ring seal 70 sealingly engages the outer surface of sleeve 50 adjacent a radially outer shoulder 51 and a shoulder 53 formed by the wall of bore 14 near the port 20. A third O ring seal 72 sealingly engages the inner surface of sleeve 50 adjacent a radially inner shoulder 55 and the outer surface of the second piston 34, and a fourth O ring seal 74 sealingly engages the wall of bore 14 and the bearing 46 near the port 18. The first lip seal 60 cooperates with the first piston 32, the second piston 34, the sleeve 50 and the plurality of O ring seals 68, 70,and 72 to substantially define a first pressure chamber 76.In the rest position, fluid is communicated from the reservoir 16 to the first pressure chamber by means of the port 18, an aperture 78 on the sleeve, an axial recess 80 on the bearing, a radial recess 82 on the bearing, a recess 84 on the radial inner edge of the first lip seal 60, and a slot 86 on the first piston 32.From the first chamber 76, fluid is also communicated to the outlet 22 and the brake circuit 26 via slots 88 and 90 on the second piston and sleeve, respectively. The second lip seal 66 cooperates with the second piston 34 and the wall of bore 14 to substantially define a second pressure chamber 96. Fluid from the reservoir 16 is communicated to the second pressure chamber 96 via port 20, an intermediate recess or chamber 98 formed by a step 100 on the end 62 of sleeve 50 and a step 102 on the wall of bore 14 adjacent port 20, a clearance between the end 62 of the sleeve and the wall of bore 14, radially extending slots 104 on the right side of second lip seal 66, a recess 166 on the radial inner edge of the second lip seal 66, and a slot 108 on the second piston 34. From the second chamber 96, fluid is communicated via outlet 24 to the brake circuit 28. In accordance with the invention, the sleeve 50 is made from a plastic material, for instance by an injection molding process.The bore 14 defines a clearance 110 with the sleeve 50 between the O ring seals 68 and 70. Consequently, fluid pressure generated within the first pressure chamber 76 is communicated to the outer surface 75 of the sleeve between O ring seals 68 and 70 and also to the inner surface 77 of the sleeve between first lip seal 60 and 0 ring seal 72. In order to offset the forces acting against the inner and outer surfaces of the sleeve by the fluid pressure within the first chamber 76, the O ring seals 70 and 72 are disposed within the bore 14 at substantially the same axial position in engagement with the sleeve. In addition, the first lip seal 60 and theO ring seal 68 are also disposed within the bore 14 at substantially the same axial position in engagement with the sleeve.As a result the forces acting against the inner and outer surfaces of the sleeve 50 by the fluid pressure generated in chamber 76 will be substantially equal and opposite to minimize radial loading of the plastic sleeve. Moreover, the plastic sleeve will remain in its molded shape to substantially eliminate deformation of the plastic sleeve during braking. When the plastic sleeve 50 is formed, it is provided with an enlarged radial thickness at each end. The enlarged end 62 extends from the lip seal 66 to the O ring seal 72 to form a surface 112 slidably engaging the second piston 34. The other enlarged end forming flange 52 is also provided with a projeetion 114 extending radially inwardly to fit within the recess 80 and oppose a shoulder 116 formed on the bearing 46. The projection 114 cooperates with the shoulder 116 to form a releasable locking device for connecting the bearing 46 to the sleeve 50. During braking, the first piston 32 moves to the left when pedal force is applied. The first piston moves the slot 86 out of communication with the recess 84 and contracts the volume of the first chamber 76 to generate fluid pressure therein. The fluid pressure in chamber 76 communicates with outlet 22 and brake circuit 26 and also cooperates with the contraction of spring 36 to bias the second piston 34 to move to the left contracting spring 42. When the slot 108 on piston 34 is moved out of communication with. the recess 106 on lip seal 66, the volume of fluid within chamber 96 is contracted to generate fluid pressure in chamber 96 and brake circuit 28. Upon termination of braking the springs 36 and 42 cooperate to return the pistons 32 and 34 to their rest positions. In conclusion, the plastic sleeve 50 provides a weight and cost savings over the conventional metal sleeve. The plastic sleeve is made from a molding process which is economically advantageous over an extruded or stamped metal sleeve. And the plastic sleeve is pressure balanced within the master cylinder to substantially eliminate deformation of the sleeve during braking operation.