# Improvements to the heads of coil forming machines and heads of coil forming machines thus improved.

## Abstract
This invention concerns improvements to the heads 10 of coil forming machines and the heads of coil forming machines thus improved which comprise rotating guide means 53 and fixed structure means II that support said rotating guide means 53 , whereby the rotating guide means 53 act substantially as the shaft of the motor means 40 which drives the coil forming heads 10 .

## Claims
CLAIMS I. Improvements to the heads IO of coil forming machines comprising rotating guide means 53 and fixed structure means II which support said rotating guide means 53 ,. said improvements being characterized by the fact that the rotating guide means 53 aet substantially as the shaft of the motor means 40 driving the coil forming heads IO . 2. Improvements to the heads IO of coil forming machines as in Claim I, characterized by the fact that the motor means 40 are electric motor means with their armature winding 48 solidly fixed to and located substantially at least partially around the spindle I4 of the, rotating guide means 53 , whereby the stator 44 is solidly anchored to the frame I2 of said head IO of the coil forming machine. 3. Improvements to the heads IO of coil forming machines as in Claim I or 2, characterized by the fact that nozzle means 25 are comprised which immit liquid into the means 20 guiding the wire rod to be coiled, so as to cool . the spindle I4 and motor means 40 at least partially. 4. Improvements to the heads IO of coil forming machines as in Claim I or 2, characterized by the fact that interspace means or duct means 24 for cooling liquid are comprised and machined in the wall 23 of the guide means 20 so as to cool the spindle I4 and motor means 40 at least partially. 5. Improvements to the heads IO of coil forming machines as in Claim I and in one or another of the Claims thereafter, characterized by the fact that said nozzle means 25 immitting liquid and said interspace or duct means 24 are comprised so as to cool the spindle I4 and motor means 40 at least partially. 6. Improvements to the heads IO of coil forming,ma chines as in Claim I or 2, characterized by the fact that means 52 are comprised for the forced convection of cool . ing liquid so as to cool the spindle I4 and motor means 40 at least partially. 7. Improvements to the heads IO of coil forming machines as in Claim I or 2 and in one or another of the Claims thereafter, characterized by the fact that means 52 for forced convection of cooling liquid are comprised. 8. Heads IO of coil forming machines as in Claim I and in one or another of the Claims thereafter, comprising rotating guide means 53 and fixed structure means II which support said rotating guide means 53 , characterized by the fact that the rotating guide means 53 act substantially as, the shaft of the motor means 40 which drive the coil forming heads IO .

## Description
Description of the invention entitled IMPROVEMENUS To THE HEADS OF COIL FORMING MACHINES AND HEADSOF COIL FORMING MACHINES THUS IMPROVED This invention concerns improvements to the heads of Co ii forming machines, and also the heads of coil forming machines which adopt said improvements. To be more exact, the invention concerns improvements envisaged for coil forming heads able to generate curved spirals of wire rod having a substantially constant pitch and diameter, the process starting with substantially straight continuous wire rod. Such machine are mainly employed to form coils of wire rods coming from the rolling process. Said wire rods come with a straight movement and pre set. speed into a rotating guide so shaped as to induce the spiral formation required. Various kinds of coil forming machines are known and, in particular, various solutions of the coil forming rotating heads are known and employed in such machines. Said rotating heads consist substantially of a spindle cooperating with a shaped guide. 1 il 1 . In said solutions the spindle is made to revolve by a .motor means which is advantageously an electric motor and .which is located at the side of, or else at a given distance from, the coil forming head and can cooperate with said head .through suitable means that transmit the motion. In particular, said means can be orthogonal or cylindri .cal gear wheels which cooperate with a motor disposed ortho .gonally or parallel to the axis of the spindle, or else said..means can be gear wheels of another type or other mechanical.means suitable for the purpose. Besides the disadvantage of their far from negligible .intrinsic cost, said means to transmit motion need specific ..lubrication equipment and entail much noise, discontinuous .working, low output, frequent maintenance and mechanical li . .mitations at the speed of rotation of the heads. Said known embodying solutions, moreover, involve an .extra overall size of the structure of the coil forming ma .chine. The improvements of our invention enable the drawbacks . and restrictions of said known solutions to be obviated by .envisaging the elimination of every supplementary means for . .transmitting motion and by making the motor means cooperate . .directly with the spindle of the coil forming head. In this way a substantial reduction in the costs of con . structing and running the machine is obtained owing to the .lack of intermediate means to transmit motion, and an appre .ciable reduction in the overall size of the machine is also . .obtained. According to the invention the motor means have their armature solidly fixed to the spindle and located substantial .ly coaxial with and around said spindle. In other words, it is. the spindle which acts as the ro . rotation shaft of said motor means. Our invention therefore consists of improvements to the.heads of coil forming machines comprising rotating guide means and fixed structure means which support said rotating guide means, said improvements being characterized by the fact that the rotating guide means act substantially as the shaft of the motor means which drives the coil forming heads This invention is also pursued by the heads of coil forming machines which include rotating guide means and fixed structure means that support said rotating guide means, said .heads being characterized by the fact that the rotating guide .means act substantially as the shaft of the motor means which drives the coil forming heads. We shall describe hereinafter a preferential embodiment.of the invention as a non restrictive example and shall refer to the attached tables, wherein Big.I gives a view of a section of a coil forming head im .proved according to the invention Big.2 shows an outside view of the coil forming head of Fig.I In the figures the same pasts or parts having the same .functions bear the same reference numbers. In particular, the coil forming head shown IO comprises.a fixed supporting structure II which consists substantially.of a frame 12 within which a rotating guide 53 is installed . at least partially. Said rotating guide 53 comprises a spindle 14 supported.by bearings I5 lI5 which are suitably sustained I3 II3 and located axially at the frontal ends of said frame I2. Suitable flange means I6 which cooperate with and rest . against the supports I3 keep the bearings I5 in their working position in relation to the frame I2. Spacer means I7 II7 cooperate in a coordinated manner with, and are axially located on, the spindle I4 and keep said bearings I5 II5 in position with the help of opposed contrast means I8 II8 respectively in coordinated cooperation with said supports I3 II3 and said flange means I6. Possible circumferential ring wise closure means I9 may.be comprised on the front discharge part of the coil forming.head 10. In the opposite front part of said head IO means 20 are included to guide axially the wire rod to be coiled and have an inlet mouth 2I helpfully shaped 8o as to induct the wire . rod. Said inlet mouth 21 is followed by a substantially stra . .ight conduit 22, the walls of which 23 can possibly contain,.at least partially, some interspaces or ducts 24 for a cool ing fluid such as water, for instance.Forced air may perhaps be introduced into the conduit 22 through one or more nozzles 25 machined in said guide means 20 near said inlet mouth 21. Both these solutions enable the spindle of the coilforming head IO to be cooled advantageously.Moreover, the forced air can be channelled into the spin dle I4 by means of through slits or holes 26 which may possi . bly be comprised in suitable clamping means 27 located inside said spindle 14. Said clamping means 27 can grip and hold the inlet end of specially shaped guide means 28, which are conformed in our example like a shaped tubular conduit. The wire rod or wire having a substantially straight form is inserted at a pre set speed into the mouth piece 29 . axially aligned with the conduit 22 and said means 28.In said shaped guide means 28 the wire rod is curved progressively and is rotated at the same time with a pre set.angular speed owing to the rotation of the spindle I4 so that it takes up the desired spiral form. The means 28 are fastened to the spindle I4 by the clamp .ing means 27, as said earlier, so as to be set in rotation, and their outlet end 32 is clamped by particular rotating and .supportlng means 33 solidly fixed to the spindle itself 14. In the examples of the figures shown, in particular, said rotating and supporting means 33 are connected frontally to . the end part of the spindle I4 by a flange element 36 and ap .propriate locking bolts 34. This type of connection with bolts, however, can be re ..placed with another type of connection. The rotating and supporting means 33 comprise also at . their unconnected end a circumferential element 35 of the type, for instance, such as a wheel or disk onto which said outlet.end 32 is clamped. Said element 35 and the flange element 36 are connected.axially by a lengthwise structure 37 which bears radial ele menus 38 to aupport the intermediate part of the guide means 28. The figures also show a balancing structure 39, which in our example consists of a tubular conduit the same as the con .duit forming the shaped guide 28 and which is located diame . trically in symmetry relatively to said guide 28. It is possible to envisage the use of a structure 39 which has a different shape but which can produce the same .balancing effect for said tubular structure 28. According to the invention the spindle I4 acts substant. .ially as a rotation shaft for the motor means 40, which in our example is an electric motor coooperating with the coil forming head IO. In particular, said motor means, which are of a direct .current type in the example shown in Fig.I, are supported on a suitable carrying and alignment structure 41 and are anchor .ed with the yoke 42 of the armature 43 outwsidly to the spin. dle I4. The same Figure I shows the parts constituting said elec .tric motor 40 and comprising substantially the stator 44, which consists of the yoke or body 45 and poles 46 cooperate .ing with the stator windings 30, and the armature 43, which .consists of the core of armature laminations 47 and the arma ture winding 48 with the relative connections 49 to the com . mutator 50, whereby some sliding contacts or brushes SI are . included which are solidly fixed to the stationary part of .the motor 40 and feed the supply current to said armature .winding 50. Cooling of the motor means 40 is performed with known means, which in our example consist of fans or other means for forced convection of cooling liquid 52 Fig.2 which cause air or cooling liquid to circulate within the coil forming head IO in such a way that the circulation laps or comes into .contact with the parts of the electric motor 40 and possiblyalso of the spindle I4 which have to be cooled. We have described here a preferential embodiment of the. invention but variants are possible for a technician in this.field. Thus the shapes and sizes can be changed and it is pos . .sible to envisage the use of a motor which is different from.that of a direct current type described and shown here but which is still suitable for actuating the same kind of cooperation and axial link with the spindle 14. It is possible to envisage a different type of anchorage of the hub 42 to the spindle I4 and said hub 42 can be differently conformed, or else it is possible to envisage that said hub 42 and the spindle I4 are made as one single casting. These and other variants are all possible for a techni .cian in this field within. the scope of the idea of the solution.