# Process for the preparation of 2 chloro 1,3 dimethoxybenzene.

## Abstract
An improved process for the preparation of 2 chloro 1,3 dimethoxybenzene involving the conversion of 1,3 dimethoxybenzene to 2,6 dimethoxyphenyl lithium and the reaction of this compound with a chlorinating agent is disclosed. 2 Chloro 1,3 dimethoxybenzene is useful as start ing material for the synthesis of pharmacologically valuable 1,2 benzisoxazoloxy acetic acids.

## Claims
ClaiF.s 1. A process for the preparation of 2 chloro 1,3 dimethoxybenzene of the formula 3EMI10.1 which comprises converting 1,3 dimethoxybenzene of the formula 1EMI10.2 by conventional methods to the 2 lithio derivative of the formula 2EMI10.3 and contacting this compound with a chlorinating agent. 2. The process of claim 1 wherein the chlorinating agent is chlorine. 3. The process of claim 1 wherein the chlorinating agent is an N chlooimide. 4. The process of claim 1 wherein the N chloroimide is N chlorosuccinimide 5. The process of claim 1 wherein the chlorinating agent is a polychloroalkane having 1 to 6 carbon atoms. 6. The process of claim 5 wherein the polychloroalkane is carbon tetrachloride. 7. The process of claim 5 wherein the polychloroalkane is hexachloroethane. 8. The process of claim 1 wherein the chlorinating agent is a pclychloroalkanone having 3 to 6 carbon atoms. 9. The process of claim 8 wherein the polychloroalkanone is hexachloracetone. 10. The process of claim 1 wherein the process is performed in the presence of a solvent. 11. The process of claim 10 wherein the solvent is an ethereal solvent. 12. The process of claim 11 wherein the ethereal solvent is diethyl ether.

## Description
The present invention relates to a novel, efficient and relatively inexpensive process for the preparation of 2 chloro 1 ,3 dimethoxybenzene. More particularly, the present invention relates to a short, technically simple process for the preparation of 2 chloro 1,3dimethoxybenzene involving lithiating 1 ,3 dimethoxy benzene to 2,6 dimethoxyphenyl 71ithium and contacting the lithio derivative with a chlorinating agent. The conanercial feasibility of processes for the preparation of pharmacologically valuable compounds depends, for the most part, upon the availability and cost of the starting material or materials thereof. For example, the commercial feasibility of the process described in published European Patent ApplicationNo. 0 002 666 for the preparation of certain diuretic, uricosuric and antihypertensive 1 , 2 benzisoxazoloxyacetic acids and derivatives thereof depends, in part, upon the availability and cost of 2 chloro1,3 dimethoxybenzene, see the following reaction scheme according to the cited EP patent application EMI1.1 EMI2.1 wherein R and Z are as defined in EP Patent Appl. No.000 26 66. A process for the preparation of 2 chloro 1,3dimethoxybenzene was disclosed by N. Schamp in Bull.Chem. Soc. Belges, 73, 35 1964 Chem. Abs., 60, 7945h 1964 and P. Kovacic and M.E. Kurz in J. Org.Chem., 31, 2459 1966 . This process, however, involves three steps from commercially available cyclohexane 1,3 dione, namely, the chlorination of cyclohexane 1,3 dione followed by dehydrochlorination of the resulting 2,2dichlorocyclohexane 1,3 dione to 2 chloro 1,3 dihydroxybenzene, as described by N. Schamp, and methlatidn thereof to 2 chloro 1,3 dimethoxybenzene, as described by P. Kovacic and M.E.Kurz, and thus would apparently furnish the desired chloro compound with difficulty and in relatively low yield, even if the individual steps procecd in relatively high yield, see the following reaction scheme II EMI2.2 The economics of a process for the preparation of 2 chloro 1,3 dimethoxybenzene would be substantially improved and the availability of this compound for the preparation of pharmacologically important 1,2 benzisoxazoloxyacetic acids would be materially increased if a shorter, technically simpler and more efficient method than that described in the aforementioned references were available.The present invention involves such a short, technically simple and apparently more efficient and less costly process for the preparation of 2 chlo.ro 1,3 dimethoxy benzene, which comprises the reaction stepts accordiny to the following reaction scheme III EMI3.1 tb SEP OCH3 SEP 9CH3Zi SEP 3 SEP ssCH3 cl tb 0, SEP 3 SEP qHgLi SEP C SEP C1 tb SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 3 tb As used throughout the specification and appended claims, the terms polchloroalane refers to an alkane, i.e., a straight or branched chain saturated hydrocarbon, having the empirical formula C H wherein n is 1 to 6 n 2n 2 such as methane, ethane, propane, butane, 2 methyl butane, 3 methylpentane and the like, in which the hydrogen atoms have been replaced by chlorine atoms, such as tetrachloromethane, hexachloroethane, octachloropropane, decachlorobutane, 1,1,1,2,3,3,4,4, 4 nonachloro 2 trichloromethylbutane,1,1,1t2,2,4,5,5,6,6,6 undeca chloro 3 trichloromethylpentane and the like. The term polychloroalkanone refers to a polychloroalkane having 3 to 6 carbon atoms in which a dichloromethylene moiety is replaced by a carboxyl function such as hexachloropropan 2 one, octachlorobutan 2 one, 1,1,1,3,4,4,4 heptachloro 3 trichloromethylbutan 2 one,1,1,1,3,4,4,5,5,9 nonachloro 3 trichloromethylpentan 2 one and the like. In the process of the present invention for the preparation of 2 chloro 1,3 dimethoxybenzene as illustrated in Reaction Scheme III, readily available 1,3dimethoxybenzene 1 is converted to the 2 lithio derivative, 2,6 dimethoxyphenyl 7 lithium 2 2 by conventional methods well known in the art. Typically, 1,3 dimethoxybenzene dissolved in a suitable solvent, such as diethyl ether or 1,2 dimethoxyethane, is treated with a slight excess of n butlyllithium and the reaction mixture is either allowed to stand at ambient temperature for, for example, about one to 16 hours, or heated under reflux for about the same time period to complete the conversion. See, for example, K H. Boltze, et al., Ann.Chem., 709, 63 1967 . Generally without isolation, the lithio derivation 2 is transformed to 2 chloro 1,3 dimethoxybenzene by treatment with a chlorinating agent.Among chlorinating agents, there may be mentioned chlorine,N chloroimides such as N chlorosuccinimide, N chlorophthalimide and the like and polychloroalkanes having 1 to 6 carbon atoms and polychloroalkanones having 3 to 6 carbon atoms, such as those hereinbefore defined. Of theN chloroimides, N chlorosuccinimide is preferred. Of the polychloroalkanes, tetrachloromethane and hexachloroethane are preferred. Of the polychloroalkanones, hexachloropropan 2 one is preferred. Ilexachloroethane is most preferred. The transformation of the lithio derivative 2 to the desired chlorobenzene 3 is suitably performed in an inert solvent. Suitable inert solvents include ethereal solvents, such as, for example diethyl ether, tetrahydrofuran, dioxane, 1, 2 dimethoxyethane, dimethoxyethoxyethane and the like. The preferred solvent is diethyl ether. The relative molar amounts of lithio derivative 2, as defined by the initial molar amount of 1,3 dimethoxy benzene 3, and chlorinating agents are not narrowly critidal and excess chlorinating agent may be employed.Generally, small molar excess of the chlorinating agent in the order of about 5 to 10 is preferred to promote the conversion of 2 to 3 without causing purification problems. When chlorine is employed as the chlorinating agent, however, it is desirable to limit the molar excess of chlorine to about 10 to avoid possible complicating side reactions. While the reaction temperature is also not narrowly critical, it is preferred to perform the conversion of 2 to 3 at a temperature at which the reaction proceeds to completion at a convenient rate. When and N chloro imides are employed as the chlorinating agent, the reaction proceeds at a convenient rate at a temperature within the range of about 35 C to 750C, a most convenient rate being attained at a temperature of about 550C. When polychloroalkanes are utilized, the reaction proceeds at a convenient rate at a temperature within tie range of about 80 C to about 350C, a most convenient rate being attained at a reaction temperature of about 25 C. When polychloroalkanones are chosen as the chlorinating agent, the conversion proceeds at a convenient rate at a temperature within the range of about 750C to about 25 C, a most convenient rate being attained at a temperature of about OOC. In the case of chlorine, i.e., when gaseous chlorine is used as the chlorinating agent, a convenient reaction rate is attained at a temperature within the range of about 30 C to 50 C, a most convenient rate being attained at a temperature at about 500C. 2 Chloro 1,3 dimethoxybenzene is useful as a starting material for the preparation of 7 chloro 1,2 benzisoxazoloxyacetic acids and derivatives thereof, which show diuretic, uricosuric and antihypertensive properties, as described in published EP Patent Application No. 000 26 66. The following example is for illustrative purposes only and is not to be construed as limiting the invention described herein in any way whatsoever. Example Preparation of 2 Chloro 1,3 dimethoxybenzene a N Chlorosuccinimide Method To a solution of 1,3 dimethoxybenzene 13.8 g in 1,2 dimethoxyethane 100 ml is added 2.6M n butyllithium 40 ml . After 40 minutes, N chlorosuccinimide 13.5 g is added and the reaction temperature is maintained below 550C by means of an ice bath. After an additional 45 minutes, the reaction mixture is poured into water and extracted with ether. Eveporation of the organic extract affords an oil which is chromatographed on silica gel 125 g , eluting with 20 g ether hexane. Evaporation of the eluents affords an oil which crystallized on standing.Recrystallization from hexane gives 2 chloro 1 ,3 dimethoxybenzene, mp 620 64 C, ANALYSIS Calculated for C8HgClO2 55.66 C 5.25 H 20.54 Cl Found 55.75 C 5.20 H 20.24 Cl b Chlorine Method Gaseous chlorine is condensed in a receptacle immersed in a dry ice acetone bath until 2.5 ml is collected.The bath is removed and the chlorine is allowed to evaporate into a solution of 2,6 dimethoxy phen 7lithium in 1,2 dimethoxyethane, prepared by adding 2.6M n butyllithium 10 ml to 1,3 dimethoxybenzene 6.9 y dissolved in dimethoxyethane 50 ml maintained at less than 500C by means of an ice bath and permitting the resulting solution to stand for 40 minutes.After one hour, the reaction mixture is poured into water and extracted with ether. The ethereal extracts are dried, filtered and evaporated to afford an oil. A comparison of the proton magnetic resonance spectrum of the oil with that of authentic 2 chloro 1,3 dimethoxybenzene prepared by Method a indicated that the reaction product contained 62 of the 2 chloro compound. c Hexachloroethane Method To a solution of 1,3 dimethoxybenzene 13.8 g in dry ether 50 ml, freshly distilled from sodium benzophenone ketyl is added dropwise 2.4M n butyllithium 50 ml at 50C over five minutes. After the addition is complete, the mixture is heated under reflux for two and onehalf hours and then cooled to 2 C. To the cooled mixture is added dropwise a solution of hexachloroethane 30.9 g in dry ether 80 ml over 23 minutes, during which time the reaction temperature increased to 140C.After this addition is complete, the reaction mixture is allowed to warm to room temperature and is stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture is cooled to 50C and water 50 ml is added. The layers are separated and the ether layer is washed with water 50 ml .The aqueous phase is extracted with ether 50 ml and the combined organic extracts are dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, filtered and evaporated. Recrystallization of the residue from hexane 60 ml yields 2 chloro 1,3 dimethoxybenzene 12.3 g, 71.5 t , mp 71 73 C reported mp 690C 710C, P. Kovacic and M.E. Kurtz, ibid. page 2465 . Variations of the basic process involving reaction times, reaction temperatures and reaction solvents did not materially alter the overall results of the method. d Carbon Tetrachloride Method To a solution of 1,3 dimethoxybenzene 13.8 g in dry ether 50 ml, freshly distilled over sodium benzophenone ketyl is added dropwise 2.2M n butyllithium over a period of 15 minutes, maintaining the reaction temperature at 310C. After the addition is complete, the reaction mixture is heated under reflux for two hours and stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture is cooled to 75 to 780C and a solution of carbon tetrachloride 10.6 ml in dry ether 20 ml is added dropwise over a period of 1 hour and 15 minutes, maintaining the reaction temperature at less than 650C. After the addition is complete, the reaction mixture is stirred at about 700C for one hour and allowed to warm to room temperature over a two hour period. The reaction mixture is cooled to OOC and ice water 50 ml and 3N hydrochloric acid 75 mi are added. Toluene 150 ml is added. The mixture is filtered and the layers are separated. The aqueous layer is extracted ith toluene 60 ml and the combined organic fractions are washed with 5 e sodium chloride solution 100 ml , dried over anhydrous potassium carbonate, filtered and concentrated to afford an oil 20 g .Gas chromatographic analysis of the oil indicated that it contained predominantly 2 chloro 1 ,3 dimethoxybenzene together with minimum amounts of starting material, 1,3 dimethoxybenzene. Ether 60 ml and hexane 20 ml are added to the oil. The resulting solid is collected. Gas chromatographic analysis of the solid indicates that it also contains predominantly 2 chloro 1 , 3 dimethoxybenzne together with lesser amounts of the starting 1,3 dimethoxybenzene. e Hexachloroacetone Method To a solution of 1,3 dimethoxybenzene 13.8 g in dry ether 50 ml, freshly distilled from sodium benzophenone keyl is added dropwise 2.4M n butyllithium 50 ml at 5 C over five minutes. After tlie addition is complete, the mixture is heated under reflux for two and one half hours and then cooled to 650C. To the cooled mixture is added dropwise a solution of hexachloroacetone 19.8 ml in dry ether 50 ml over one hour. The reaction mixture is allowed to warm to OOC and after one hour, water 50 ml is added and the combined aqueous phases are extracted with ether. The combined ether fractions are dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate and filtered. The filtrate is washed with 15 sodium sulfate solution, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, filtered and evaporated. Trituration of the residue with hexane 41 ml affords 2 chloro 1 ,3 dimethoxybenzene 8.6 g, 50 as a gum. The gas liquid chromatogram of the gum showed that it contained predominantly the desired 2 chloro compound.