# Method and device for cooling moulds.

## Abstract
A method and a device for cooling moulds circulating in a horizontal plane, in which siphon action is used to pass cooling liquid from a top gutter through the moulds. Method and device are particularly advantageous when applied with the manufacture of plastics tube.

## Claims
CLAI.KE 1, A method of cooling moulds which are circulating in a horizontal plane, characterized in that by means of siphon action the liquid is passed from a gutter or trough, situated on top, through the moulds and is discharged to a collecting gutter situated therebelow. 2. A method according to claim 1, characterized in that the cooling liquid is injected into the gutter lying on top, in a direction opposite to the entrance apertures of the siphon tubes. 3. A method according to claim 1 or 2, as applied for manufacturing plastic industrial products. 4. A method according to claim. 1, as applied for cooling mould halves circulating in two loop shaped paths havir adjci ing trait portions, such that the could halves .ove along with. a plastics tube coring from an extruder so as to shape said tube. 5. 4 method according to claim , as applied to cooling mould halves for manufacturing corrugated plastics tube. 6. A device for cooling moulds which are circulating in a horizontal plane, characterized in that above the circulatory path of the moulds 1, 1 and substantially parallel to said path a supply gutter 2 for cooling liquid is arranged, as well as below and also substantially parallel to said path a discharge gutter 10 and in that each mould is provided with a siphon tube 5 at the top, connected with the internal cooling space 4 and being shaped such that the entrance end 7, 8 passes over the edge of the supply gutter 2 and below the level 11 of the liquid which finds itself therein, there being provided, at the bottom of the mould 1 a discharge tube 9 the outflow end of which finds itself in or above the discharge gutter 10 . 7. Adevice according to claim 6, characterized in that the entrance 8 of the siphon tube 3 is bent in horizontal direction. 8. Adevice according to claim 7, characterized in that the supply 12 of cooling liquid to the supply gutter 2 occurs by means of jet pipes 12 which are directed opposite to the di ection of bending of the siphon tabe and which are situated below the liquid level 11 inside the gutter. dice A deviceaccording to any of claims 6 to 8, characterized in that a punip is provided which recycles the cooling liquid from the discharge gutter 10 via a cooling device to a spply gutter 12 . 10. Adevice according to claim 9, characterized in that the pump has been so dimensioned that it has a capacity which exceeds the t normally used by all moulds together, and in that the sply jitter t2 is provided with anoverflow 14 which determines the liquid level. 11. A device according to any of claims 6 to 10 as applied foy manufactJring plastic industrial products. 12. A device according to claim 11 as applied to cooling mould halves for manufacturing plastics tube, more particularly corrugated plastics tube, in which said mould halves are displaced by means cf two adjacent, circulating endless chains, such that over adjoining straight portions of the chain path pairs of mould halves, one on each chain, are operative so as to give a plastics tube a desired shape.

## Description
Method and device for cooling mouldsThe invention relates to a method and a device for cooling moulds, particularly moulds circulating in a horizontal plane.It is desirable to provide improved cooling technics for moulds which are generally used in the industry, so that production speeds can be increased. In endeavours to increase the production speeds in various machines in a production line the cooling of the moulds constitutes a particular problem. It is very difficult to influence the cooling time because it is dye ermine to a very great extent ty the process. A certain tine is required to let a piece of work cool down to such a temperature that the product has obtained a fixed shape.This means, amongst other things, that when increasing the production speed of a moulding machine, the machine will have to become longer, in order to still obtain a sufficient cooling time. The consequence of this again is that the cooling system is becoming constructively complicated.The present invention therefore aims at providing a solution for these problems in form of a system which can be simply realized irrespective of the nature, extent or complicatedness of the machine or the number of moulds in a machine, respectively.The method according to the invention is characterized in that by means of siphon action the liquid is passed from a gutter or though situated on top through the moulds and is discharged to a collecting gutter situated therebelow.This principle can be realized constructively in a very simple manner. Thus a device according to the invention is characterized in that above the circulatory path of the moulds and substantially parallel to said path a supply gutter for cooling liquid is arranged, as well as below and also substantially parallel to said path a discharge gutter and in that each mould is provided with a siphon tune at the top, connected with the internal cooling space, and being shaped such that the entrance ends passes over the edge of the supply gutter and below the level of the liquid which finds itself therein, there being provided, at the bottom of the mould, a discharge tube, the outflow end of which finds itself in or above the discharge gutter.Thus there is simply made use of gravity to let the liquid flow through he mould.in order to start the siphon action or to keep it going, respeclively, t is acantageous when the entrance of the siphon tube is bent in horizontal direction. So use is made here of the dynamic pressure during displacement.Furthermore the device can be realized such that the supply of cooling Liquid to the supply gutter occurs by means of jet pipes which are directed opposite to the direction of bending of the siphon tube, and which are situated below the liquid level inside the gutter.The invention is particular advantageous when applied for cooling mould halves circulating in two loop shaped paths having adjoining straight portions, such that the mould halves move along with a plastics tube coming from an extruder so as to shape said tube. Still more particularly it is envisaged to apply the invention to cool mould halves for manufacturing corrugated plastics tubes.The invention will now be clarified with reference to the accompanying drawing of an embodiment. Figure 1 shows diagrammatically the arrangement of a device according to the invention relative to the path of dis placement of the moulds Figure 2 is conceived of as a cross sectional view according to the arrows II II in fig. 1 Figure 3 is conceived of as a cross sectional view according to the arrows III III in fig. 1 Figure 4 is an overall view of manufacturing corrugated plastics tube.The idea of the invention is applicable to various moulds which are used for the manufacture of industrial products, in particular also with objects which are each ford individually. The invention will, however, be described with reference to an example of application in which mould halves 1 see fig. 1 are circulating in order to create, with similar other mould halves, the complete mould cavity.The object formed remains in these mould halves until it has been cooled down sufficiently to maintain the shape obtained, at which moment the set of mould halves goes back along the outermost part of the loop towards the beginning. Fig. 1 shows one such loop.In fig. 2a a mould half is visible, to the left with broken lines the corresponding other mould half 1 being illustrated. As far as in the present application there is referred to moulds this also implies mould halves of this type which pairwise determine the final shape of the product.Because the support and the drive of the moulds as such does not constitute part of the inventive idea, there has been refrained from further illustration in the drawing or detailed description thereof.At short spacing above the horizontal plane in which the moulds such as 1 are cir culating, a supply gutter for the cooling liquid has been arranged, in this case of a circulatory series of moulds being realized as a trough 2. Each of the moulds is provided with a siphon tube 3 which is connected with the internal space 4 of the mould which is adapted for the cooling. The siphon tube 3 may simply comprise a part 5 which extends straight upwardly, a part 6 which extends horizontally and subsequently part 7, which extends downwardly, the whole being dimensioned such that the siphon tube passes over the edge of the gutter 2. As will be further clarified with reference to fig. 3 the inflow end of the siphon tube may comprise a part 8 which has been bent horizontally.At the bottom the mould 1 is provided with a discharge tube 9 which can be short and simply straight and which debouches above or in a collecting or discharge gutter 10 for the cooling liquid which leaves the moulds.According to well knawn physical laws a flow through the siphon tube 3, once created, will continue as long as the entrance end of the siphon tube finds itself below the liquid level 11 in the supply gutter 2. Both in order to decrease the risk of disturbances and in order to make the siphon process begin when starting the machine, the entrance end 8 of the siphon tube fig. 3 has been bent into the direction in which the siphon tube, together with the mould, moves through the gutter, said direction being indi cated in fig. 3 by arrow P1. Furthermore, tubes 12 for supplying cooling liquid to the gutter 2 are provided with a bent end 13 which functions as a jet nozzle. This jet nozzle 13 points in the direction opposite to the direction of the inflow end 8 of the siphon tube. The jet nozzle 13 and the entrance end 1 of the siphon tube are, as a matter of course, not situated opposite one another, but in the lengthwise direction of the gutter at a certain lateral spacing as appears from figures 1 and 3. The effect of the arrangement described of the jet nozzle 13 relative to the siphon inlet 18 is still, however, that at the entrance aperture of the siphon a hydrodynamic pressure is created which is sufficient to urge the liquid upwardly through the bend 7, 6, 5 by which the siphon action will be created at any moment at which it is not already present.It will be clear that there can be provided a plurality of supply tubes 12 with jet nozzle 13, depending on the overall dimensions of the gutter or the amount of liquid respectively, which is required for cooling the total number of moulds.Finally there can be pointed out yet that in the embodiment illustrated a discharge tube 14 is provided in the gutter 2, in form of an overflow, by which the liquid level 11 is determined. The circulation system for the liquid can then furthermore be realized such that the overflow 14 debouches somewhere in the collecting gutter 11. The water from this gutter 10 can be pumped away by a pump, not represented, via a discharge tube 15 and be supplied again, via a cooling installation, to the supply tube 15 for the upper gutter. The pump capacity can be dimensioned in such manner that it rotates continuously and has a yield which exceeds some what the total amount of cooling liquid which is being used by all moulds connected with one supply gutter 2. All such liquid is fed, via the supplies 12, 13, to the gutter whilst the overflow 14, as stated, determines the level 11.Figure 4 diagrammatically shows the arrangement in a production line for manufacturing plastics corrugated tubes. The pairs of mould halves 1, 1 are circulating in two loops. The straight portion of the paths, where the mould halves co operate, joins the extruder 16 which continuously produces smooth tube 17. The moulds 1, 1 grant the tube a corrugation as is visible at the portion 17 which leaves the moulds the product obtained can then be wound on a reel 18. It is observed that the reference numerals in the claims must in no way be construed to restrict the scope thereof, but are only given in order to facilitate obtaining a quick understanding.