# Compositions for the treatment of chronic trypanosomiasis infections.

## Abstract
The invention regards to compositions comprising sub stituted 2 or 5 nitroimidazoles and diminazene aceturate and to the use of these compositions for the treatment of chronic trypanosomiasis infections of humans and animals. The preferred substituted 2 or 5 nitroimidazoles are 1 C₁ C₆ Alkyl 5 NO₂ 2 Δ² isoxyzolin 3 yl imidazoles in the 4 5 position being substituted by a CH₂

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A composition comprising diminazene aceturate and the nitroimidazole having the structureEMI23.1 wherein R1is hydrogen, lower alkyl having 1 to 6 carbon atoms, and n is 1 or 3. 2. A composition comprising diminazene aceturate and the nitroimidazole having the structure EMI23.2 3. A composition comprising diminazene aceturate and the nitroimidazole having the structure EMI23.3 4. The use, in the treatment of chronic trypanosomiasis infections in humans and animals of diminazene aceturate and a compound having the formula EMI24.1 where R1 and n are as defined in Claim 1. 5. The use, in the treatment of chronic trypanosomiasis infections in humans and animals, of diminazene aceturate followed, about 3 days later, by a compound having the formulaEMI24.2 where RÚ and n are as d Iined in Claim 1.

## Description
TITLE OF THE INVENTION Compositions and Methods for theTreatment of Chronic Trypanosomiasis Infections.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Trypanosomiasis is a term used to describe a group of allied protozoal diseases, each of which is due to infection with a species of the genusTrypanosoma. They reach great importance in Africa where their presence in enzootic form precludes the keeping of domestic animals throughout the largest part of the continent between 150N and 200S latitude.The pathogenic trypanosomes of Africa are considered to be primarily associated with the tsetse flies glossina which feed on vertebrate blood. The tsetse is the vector and also is the host in which part of the trypanosome life cycle takes part. Wherever tsetse are present, trypanosomiasis will also be found in some part of the mammalian population. The clinical findings are typically those of a wasting disease with intermittent fever. Anemia, edema, and cachexia are parts of the syndrome. The important trypanosomes pathogenic to domestic animals are T. congolense, T. vivax,T. simiae, T. suis, T. eguiperdum, and T. brucei. The latter trypanosome is morphologically identical to T. gambiense, and T. rhodesiense, responsible for human sleeping sickness of Africa. The tsetse fly is the vector in the transmittal of these trypanosomes.The trypanosomes T. evansi and T. vivax are also mechanically transmitted by bloodfeeding insects. One trypanosome found in the Western Hemisphere isT. cruzi, which infects both animals and man and in man causes a very serious condition known as Chagas disease. Acute Chagas disease T. cruzi occurs in people of all ages but is especially important in the adolescent. The chronic form may be mild and asymptomatic, although it frequently gives rise to myocarditis and N.S. nervous system involvement resulting in morbidity and premature mortality. A recurring problem in the chemotherapy of trypanosomiasis is the patient or animal which relapses after treatment. If the drug fails to clear the circulating parasitaemia or if the parasites reappear in the bloodstream after an aparasitaemic phase which varies depending on the persistance and level of the drugs used, then there is a distinct possibility that either underdosage of the drug is the causitive factor or drug resistance has occurred. If, however, there is a prolonged aparasitaemic phase after chemotherapy before the eventual reappearance of the parasite this, in many instances, has been attributed to reinfection if the animal has remained in the endemic area. The other possibility is the existence of an occult phase of the disease, which gives rise to a new cycle of parasitaemia. This was described in greater detail in the case of T. brucei TREU 667 1 infection in the mouse by Jennings, Whitelaw Urquhart, Parasitol. 75, 143153 1977 , who found that infections of mice with this stabilate could be cured permanently if treatment was initiated early in the infection 3 7 days but that if it were delayed 14 21 days , then nearly all the mice eventually relapsed despite the mice being treated with many times the recommended dose of drugs.BRIEF SUMMARY OF INVENTION The present invention is directed to novel compositions and methods for the treatment of chronic trypanosomiasis infections. Said compositions comprise substituted 2 or 5 nitroimidazoles and diminazene aceturate Berenil . Said substituted 2 or 5 nitroimidazoles included in the novel compositions are those showing trypanosomal activity described in United States Patent No. 3,711,495, 3,915,978 and 4,010,176. Preferred 5 nitroimidazoles, described in United States Patent No. 3,711,495, are those having a l loweralkyl substituent of 1 to 6 carbon atoms and a 2 substituent which is a A2 isoxazoline fused at the 4 ,5 position to a 6 or 8 membered saturated alkyl ring. Further preferred 5 nitroimidazoles are those described in United StatesPatent No. 3,646,027, and United States PatentNo. 3,737,547.Further preferred nitroimidazoles useful in the present novel compositions are set forth below EMI3.1 Cuckler et al., Amer. J. Trop. Med. Hyg., 19, 916 1970 EMI4.1 1 Burden, Antimicrob. Agents and Chemotherapy p.545 1968 .EMI4.2 Ross et al., J. Med. Chem., 15, 1035 1972 and 16, 347 1973 .EMI4.3 5 Antimicrobial Agents and Chemtherapy, p.520 1967 EMI5.1 J. Med. Chem., 20, 946 1977 It is contemplated that those nitroimidazoles described above having trypanosomal activity may equally well be incorporated in the present novel Berenil nitroimidazole compositions to provide compositions useful for the treatment of relapsing trypanosomiasis. The following non limiting Examples will serve to further illustrate the instant invention. MATERIALS AND ASSAY METHODS The mice used were adult CFLP females approximately 25 30 g. and maintained on standard laboratory diet throughout the experiments. Two stabilates were used throughout the experiments, the main one was T. brucei TREU 667 1 originally obtained from Dr. A. R. Gray, Edinburgh, and the other T. brucei LUMP 1001 obtained fromProfessor W. H. R. Lumsden, London. These were cryogenically maintained as previously described inJennings, Whitelaw Urquhart, Parasitol. 75, 143 153 1977 . Each mouse was inoculated intraperitoneally with 1 x 104 trypanosomes prepared from the stabilate in phosphate glucose saline pH 8.0. Chemotherapy commenced at various times post inoculation. Each mouse was weighed and the requisite dose of drug administered intraperitoneally in a volume of 0.1 ml. 5g. body weight. The nitroimidazoles tested were EMI6.1 I. l methyl 5 nitroimidazol 2 ylmethylcarbamateEMI6.2 II. 3 1 methyl 5 nitroimidazol 2 vl 4 5 tetramethylene E isoxazoline EMI6.3 III. 3 1 methyl 5 itroimidazol 2 yl 4 ,5 hexamethylene A isoxazoline Hereinafter, the above named Compounds are referred to by their designated Roman numerals. Compounds I, II and III were used in crystalline powder forms. These were first ground finely in an agate mortar and then suspended in physiological saline for intraperitoneal injection.A drop of detergent Tween 80 was added to the suspensions to facilitate wetting. Care was taken during dispensing that the suspensions were properly dispersed, and because of some slight unavoidable settlement in the syringe, the mice were always injected at random and usually not more than 3 mice were injected from the one syringe full of drug suspension. As the regimen was usually 4 daily doses at the respective drug concentration, any errors were evenly distributed. The other established drugs used wereBerenil diminazene aceturate, obtained fromFabwerke, Hoechst, Germany, 40 mg. kg. unless otherwise specified , Ethidium homidium bromide 7.5 mg. kg. and Prothidium pyrithidium bromide 10 mg. kg.obtained from Boots Pure Drug Co., England andSamorin isometamidium 2 mg. kg. obtained from May BR Baker Ltd. . All were prepared according to the manufacturer s instructions and were injected intraperitoneally. The mice were examined for parasites on the day treatment was initiated usually day 3 or 21 of infection by examination of a drop of tail blood under x40 objective wet film technique .Subsequent to treatment they were examined every 2 days for 6 days and thereafter once per week until relapse occurred or until the experiment was terminated in some instances 6 7 months . The mice which showed relapse parasitaemias were removed from their experimental groups to a separate holding cage after they showed a positive wet blood film on two separate occasions. EXAMPLE 1The Effect of Compounds I, II and III on EarlyInfections of T. brucei TREU 667 1 The three compounds, I, II and III were used at various dose levels against an early infection of T. brucei TREU 667 1 in CFLP. The dose regimen was initiated 3 days after infection and the intraperitoneal injections of drug suspension were given daily. The results are set forth inTable 1 TABLE 1 Effectiveness of Compounds I, II and III When Administered to Mice Infected For 3 Days With Trypanosoma brucei TREU 667 1EMI8.1 tb SEP Number SEP Number tb SEP and SEP Level SEP of SEP Cured Out SEP of tb Drug SEP Daily SEP Doses SEP Total SEP Treated tb I SEP 4 SEP x SEP 5 SEP mg. kg. SEP 0 8 tb SEP 4 SEP x SEP 20 SEP mg. kg. SEP 0 8 tb II SEP 4 SEP x SEP 5 SEP mg. kg. SEP 0 8 tb SEP 4 SEP x SEP 20 SEP mg. kg. SEP 2 8 tb It SEP 4 SEP x SEP 80 SEP mg. kg. SEP 10 10 tb II SEP 4 SEP x SEP 5 SEP mg. kg. SEP 2 8 tb SEP 4 SEP x SEP 20 SEP mg. kg. SEP 8 8 tb t Separate experiment Cure indicates that relapses did not occur, i.e., that there was a complete absence of parasites in the blood for at least 90 days after treatment or till the end of the experiment. The initial results Table 1 using dose regimens of 4 daily doses at 5 and 20 mg. kg. ofCompound I did not result in any cures. Compound III, 4 doses at 20 mg. kg. gave 100 cure of a 3 day old infection. There was some indication of activity with Compound II administered in 4 doses of 20 mg. kg.and for that reason the experiment was repeated using 4 doses of 80 mg. kg. which also gave a 100 cure rate. EXAMPLE 2The Effect of Compounds II and III Alone and inCombination Against Chronic Infections of T. bruceiTREU 667 1 The Compounds II and III which showed promise against 3 day old infections in Example 1 were tested against 21 day old infections ofT. brucei TREU 667 1 which previous work had shown relapsed after treatment at this time after infection with many of the conventional drugs alone Berenil,Ethidium, Prothidium, Samorin even when used at many times the dose rate effective against early infections.Compounds II and III were used singly and in various combinations and the results are shown in Table 2 TABLE 2Effectiveness of Compounds II and III Alone and in combination WhenAdministered to Mice Infected for 21 days With Tryponosoma brucei TREU 667 1 EMI10.1 SEP Number SEP and SEP Number SEP Cured tb SEP Level SEP of SEP Out SEP of tb Drug SEP Daily SEP Doses SEP Total SEP Treated tb III SEP 4x20 SEP mg. kg. SEP 0 9 tb SEP 4x20 SEP mg. kg. SEP 0 10 tb SEP 4x80 SEP mg. kg. SEP 0 10 tb III SEP 4x20 SEP mg. kg. SEP 0 8 tb II SEP 4x20 SEP mg. kg. SEP 0 9 tb II SEP Simultaneously tb III SEP 4x20 SEP mg. kg. SEP each SEP 1 10 tb II SEP 4x20 SEP mg. kg. SEP II tb III SEP followed SEP by tb SEP 4x20 SEP mg. kg. SEP III SEP 1 10 tb III SEP 4x20 SEP mg. kg. SEP III tb II SEP followed SEP by tb SEP 4x20 SEP mg. kg. SEP II SEP 1 10 tb Constituted single experiment Cure indicates that relapses did not occur, i.e., that there was a complete absence of parasites in the blood for at least 90 days after treatment or till the end of the experiment. In every instance the Compounds II andIII used, either singly or in various combination, failed to cure the 21 day old infections ofT. brucei TREU 667 1 in that relapses occurred from 5 days onward. EXAMPLE 3The Effect of Treatment with Other TrypanocidalDrugs Alone and In Combination on Chronic Infections of T. brucei TREU 667 1 The effect of pre treatment on infection of T. brucei TREU 667 1 established for 21 days with the three established drugs Ethidium, Prothidium andSamorin is shown in Table 3. Pre treatment of a 21 day old infection of T. brucei TREU 667 1 withEthidium at 7.5 mg. kg. followed by Compound III at day 24 either in the form of one dose at 80 mg. kg.or 4 doses of 20 mg. kg. each had no effect since the infection subsequently relapsed. The results are set forth in Table 3 TABLE 3The Effect of Pretreatment With Ethidium, Prothidium or Samorin on theEfficacy of Compound III on a 21 Day Old Infection of Trypanosoma bruceiTREU 667 1 EMI12.1 SEP Pretreatment SEP Day SEP 21 SEP Treatment SEP Commencing SEP Day SEP 24 tb SEP Number SEP and SEP No.Cured tb SEP Level SEP of SEP Out SEP of tb SEP Drug SEP Dosage SEP Drug SEP Daily SEP Doses SEP Total SEP Treated tb SEP Ethidium SEP 7.5 SEP mg. kg. SEP SEP SEP 0 10 tb SEP Ethidium SEP 7.5 SEP mg. kg. SEP III SEP 4x20 SEP mg. kg. SEP 0 10 tb SEP Ethidium SEP 7.5 SEP mg. kg. SEP III SEP 1x80 SEP mg. kg. SEP 0 7 tb SEP Prothidium SEP 10.0 SEP mg. kg. SEP SEP SEP 0 8 tb SEP Prothidium SEP 10.0 SEP mg. kg. SEP III SEP 4x20 SEP mg. kg. SEP 3 7 tb SEP Prothidium SEP 10.0 SEP mg. kg. SEP III SEP 1x80 SEP mg. kg. SEP 4 8 tb SEP Samorin SEP 2.0 SEP mg. kg. SEP SEP SEP 0 10 tb SEP Samorin SEP 2.0 SEP mg. kg. SEP III SEP 4x20 SEP mg. kg. SEP 0 10 tb SEP Samorin SEP 2.0 SEP mg. kg. SEP III SEP 1x80 SEP mg. kg. SEP 5 7 tb SEP SEP SEP III SEP 4x20 SEP mg. kg. SEP 0 8 tb Cure indicates that relapses did not occur, i.e., that there was a complete absence of parasites in the blood for at least 90 days after treatment or till the end of the experiment. EXAMPLE 4The Effect of Treatment with Berenil Alone and InCombination With Compound III on ChronicT. brucei TREU 667 1 Infections The initial work with Berenil was carried out using the dose rate of 40 mg. kg. which was the dose of drug used in all the original work on chronic infections. TABLE 4The Effect of Treatment with Berenil Alone and in Combination With Compound III on a 21 Day old Infection of Trypanosoma brucei TREU 667 1 EMI14.1 Pretreatment SEP Day SEP 21 SEP Treatment SEP Commencing SEP Day SEP 24 tb SEP Number SEP and SEP No.Cured tb SEP Level SEP of SEP Out SEP of tb Drug SEP Dose SEP Drug SEP Daily SEP Doses SEP Total SEP Treated tb Berenil SEP 5 SEP mg. kg. SEP SEP SEP 0 10 tb Berenil SEP 5 SEP mg. kg. SEP Berenil SEP 5 SEP mg. kg. SEP 0 10 tb Berenil SEP 5 SEP mg. kg. SEP III SEP 4x20 SEP mg. kg. SEP 0 9 tb Berenil SEP 5 SEP mg. kg. SEP III SEP 4x80 SEP mg. kg. SEP 0 10 tb Berenil SEP 5 SEP mg. kg. SEP III SEP 1x20 SEP mg. kg. SEP 0 10 tb Berenil SEP 5 SEP mg. kg. SEP III SEP 1x80 SEP mg. kg. SEP 0 10 tb Berenil SEP 20 SEP mg. kg. SEP SEP SEP 0 10 tb Berenil SEP 20 SEP mg. kg. SEP III SEP 4x20 SEP mg. kg. tb SEP II SEP each SEP drug SEP 4 10 tb Berenil SEP 40 SEP mg. kg. SEP SEP SEP 1 10 tb Berenil SEP 40 SEP mg. kg. SEP SEP SEP 1 9 tb Berenil SEP 40 SEP mg. kg. SEP III SEP 4x20 SEP mg. kg. SEP 9 10 tb Berenil SEP 40 SEP mg. kg. SEP III SEP 4x80 SEP mg. kg. SEP 9 10 tb Berenil SEP 40 SEP mg. kg. SEP III SEP 4x20 SEP mg. kg. SEP 9 10 tb Berenil SEP 40 SEP mg. kg. SEP SEP SEP 6 10 tb Berenil SEP 40 SEP mg. kg. SEP III SEP 4x20 SEP mg. kg. SEP 8 10 tb Berenil SEP 40 SEP mg. kg. SEP III SEP 1x80 SEP mg. kg. SEP 10 10 tb Berenil SEP 40 SEP mg. kg. tb III SEP 80 SEP mg. kg. SEP SEP SEP 10 10 tb Cure indicates that relapses did not occur, i.e., that there was a complete absence of parasites in the blood at least 90 days after treatment or until the end of the experiment. 2 mice died shortly after treatment regimen no signs of trypanosomes. In addition, groups of mice were givenBerenil and the Compound III simultaneously, or one injection of Berenil followed by one injection ofCompound III in order to compress the treatment into the minimum number of injections. The results are set forth in Table 4. The results showed that if Berenil is administered at 40 mg. kg. followed by Compound III usually administered 3 days after the Berenil either as a single dose 1 x 80 mg. or 4 doses of 20 mg. kg.then the successful permanent cures were between 90 100 . In one experiment there was an exceptionally high number 6 10 of the mice receiving theBerenil 40 mg. kg. alone, which were apparently permanently cured, usually this is around 1 . It was also apparent that pre treatment with Berenil at lower dose levels was not effective in preventing relapses, although 20 mg. kg. Berenil followed by a combination of the two Compounds III and II each at 20 mg. kg. 4 doses cured 4 10 mice. The simultaneous administration of Berenil 40 mg. kg. and Compound III 80 mg. kg. also seemed highly effective 100 until judged against the 6 10 60 cure rate for Berenil 40 mg. kg. given alone in that particular experiment. In all experiments, there seemed little advantage in administering Compound III in 4 doses 4 x 20 mg. kg. rather than as a single dose 1 x 80 mg. kg. . EXAMPLE 5The Effect of Treatment With Berenil Alone and InCombination With Compound III on Chronic T. bruceiLUMP 1001 Infections In order to demonstrate that pre treatment with Berenil followed by Compound III was effective against different isolates of T. brucei, the stabilateT. brucei LUMP 1001 was used to establish the infections. It was known that T. brucei LUMP 1001 relapsed after treatment of a 21 day old infectionJennings, Whitelaw, Urquart, Parasitol. 75, 143153 1977 , and indeed tended to relapse earlier after treatment with Berenil at 40 mg. kg. than any of the other stabilates tested approximately 20 days . The original experiment using 40 mg. kg.Berenil as pre treatment followed by Compound III was disappointing, as only 3 out of a total of 27 mice appeared to be cured by the various dose regimens. The experiment was therefore repeated increasing the pretreatment dose of Berenil to 60 mg. kg.and 80 mg. kg., the latter being given as two doses of 40 mg. kg. on consecutive days to avoid the possibility of deaths due to the toxicity of Berenil at that dose level in mice. This pretreatment was followed by administration of Compound III at 4 doses of 80 mg. kg. and in both instances where the increased Berenil dose level 60 mg. kg. and 80 mg. kg. was used, satisfactory permanent cures were accomplished, whereas in the respective controls all of the mice relapsed. The results are set forth in Table 5 TABLE 5The Effect of Treatment with Berenil Alone and in Combination With Compound III on a 21 Day old Infection of Trypanosoma brucei LUMP 1001 EMI17.1 Pretreatment SEP Day SEP 21 SEP Treatment SEP Commencing SEP Day SEP 24 tb SEP Number SEP and SEP No. SEP Cured tb SEP Level SEP of SEP Out SEP of tb Drug SEP Dose SEP Drug SEP Daily SEP Doses SEP Total SEP Treated tb Berenil SEP 40 SEP mg. kg. SEP SEP SEP 0 10 tb Berenil SEP 40 SEP mg. kg. SEP III SEP 4 SEP x SEP 20 SEP mg. kg SEP 2 10 tb Berenil SEP 40 SEP mg. kg. SEP III SEP 1 SEP x SEP 80 SEP mg. kg. SEP 1 9 tb Berenil SEP 40 SEP mg. kg. tb SEP III SEP 80 SEP mg. kg. SEP SEP SEP 0 8 tb Berenil SEP 40 SEP mg. kg. SEP SEP SEP 0 9 tb Berenil SEP 60 SEP mg. kg. SEP SEP SEP 0 8 tb Berenil SEP 80 SEP mg. kg. SEP SEP SEP 0 8 tb SEP SEP III SEP 4 SEP x SEP 80 SEP mg. kg. SEP 0 10 tb Berenil SEP 40 SEP mg. kg. SEP III SEP 4 SEP x SEP 80 SEP mg. kg. SEP 0 8 tb Berenil SEP 60 SEP mg. kg. SEP III SEP 4 SEP x SEP 80 SEP mg. kg. SEP 9 12 tb Berenil SEP 80 SEP mg. kg. SEP III SEP 4 SEP x SEP 80 SEP mg. kg. SEP 10 10 tb Cure indicates that relapses did not occur, i.e., that there was a complete absence of parasites in the blood for at least 90 days after treatment or until the end of the experiment. Given as 2 x 40 mg. kg. on day 21 and day 24. The initial results with the three CompoundsI, II and III tested against early infections 3 day of T. brucei TREU 667 1 showed trypanocidal action in II only at the high level of 4 x 20 mg. kg., a little in Compound III at the low level 4 x 5 mg. kg.and a very definite therapeutic action at the higher level of 4 x 20 mg. kg. Compound I at the dose levels used, was completely ineffective. Because of these results, a further group of mice were tested at a higher level 4 x 80 mg. kg. with Compound II, and the drug at this level cured an early infection. Experiments using the most promising of the drugs, Compound III, against an established 21 day infection of T. brucei TREU 667 1, showed that even administration of 4 doses at 80 mg. kg. failed to permanently cure the infection, although the last of the mice did not relapse for a period of 42 days after treatment. Various combinations of Compounds II andIII also failed to cure the infection Table 2 . These results indicate that pre treatment with Berenil followed by the Compound III, results in a permanent cure in 90 100 of mice which have a long established infection of T. brucei, whereas when Berenil is used alone, usually less than 10 would be free of infection. It is the combination of the drugs,Berenil plus Compound III which is effective, as neither drug on its own has the same effect. A proportion of mice infected for 21 days withT. brucei TREU 667 1 and first treated with Berenil alone 40 mg. kg. and retreated every 30 days, i.e., before any signs of relapse, for a total of 5 months, have been shown to eventually become parasitaemic again. It is also not entirely due to the concentration of the initial dose of Berenil as 21 day old T. brucei TREU 667 1 infections have relapsed after treatment even with 160 mg. kg.Berenil given subcutaneously but it is important as it requires a higher level of pre treatment withBerenil 60 and 80 mg. kg. in the case ofT. brucei LUMP 1001 than the T. brucei TREU 667 1 to effect a permanent cure. In addition, it would appear that it is not just a question of removal of the mass of trypanosomes circulating in the bloodstream prior to treatment with Compound III, as 5 mg. kg. Berenil will clear all circulating trypanosomes from the bloodstream for up to 20 days Table 4 and indeed early infections of T. bruceiTREU 667 1 can be permanently cured at this dose level. The Compound III could be administered as a single injection rather than in 4 divided doses, and it could also be administered along with the Berenil. This possibility of having a single injection has important practical implications in the treatment of herds of cattle under local African conditions, and would obviate the necessity of continually gathering and treating range cattle. However, in instances where the dosage ofBerenil required was high as against T. bruceiLUMP 1001, then the effectiveness of dividing theBerenil dose would circumvent the possibility of toxic reactions in the host. In human trypanosomiasis where the consideration of repeated daily treatment is not a major consideration then both theBerenil and Compound III could be given in divided doses. For treatment of trypanosomiasis in humans pted, In The African Trypanosomiases Ed.H. W. Mulligan, George Allen and Unwin, London, 1970. Berenil is usually given every day for 7 10 days at a dose rate of 2 mg. kg., and indeed can be given orally Bailey, Trans. Roy. Soc. Trop. Med.Hyg., 62, 122, 1968 . The effect of pretreatment with other trypanocidal drugs indicates that some of the mice treated with the prophylactic drugs Prothidium and Samorin did not show signs of relapse until 6 7 months after the treatment, and the combined treatment was more effective than the single pretreatment. The compositions of this invention have particular value in the control of trypanosomiasis in domesticated animals, particularly cattle. For this purpose, they may be administered in unit dosage forms such as boluses, drenches and preferably by injection. The amount of the composition required for treatment of relapsing trypanosomiasis varies in accordance with such factors as the particular composition employed, the species of animal to be treated, the species of infecting parasite and the severity of infection.In general, the compositions of the present invention comprising Berenil and a substituted nitroimidazole when administered by injection to domestic animals in daily doses of from about 5 mg. to about 100 mg. of Berenil and about 10 mg. to 800 mg. of the nitroimidazole per kilogram of animal body weight are highly effective in treating relapsing trypanosomiasis without intolerable toxic effect. When these compounds are to be employed as therapeutic agents, good results are obtained when the animals are injected with a dose of from about 10 mg. to about 80 mg. of Berenil and about 20 mg. to about 320 mg.of the nitroimidazole and preferably 2 mg. to 50 mg. per kilogram of body weight of Berenil and a dose of 20 mg. to 160 mg. of the nitroimidazole compound.Administration of the Berenil and the nitroimidazole may be on the same day or with an interval of about three days. Administration may be in a single dose or divided into a plurality of smaller doses over a period of 24 hours or several days. Where prophylactic treatment is desired and the compounds are administered continuously, satisfactory results are obtained when the animals ingest daily dosages of about 0.1 mg. to 100 mg. of the composition per kilogram of body weight. The unit dosage forms may be readily prepared by conventional formulating techniques and are particularly useful when administration is to be made in a single dose or divided doses over a period of 24 hours. The exact amount of active ingredient to be employed in the above compositions may vary provided that a sufficient amount is ingested to give the required dosage. In general, tablets, boluses, drenches and intraperitoneal injections containing from about 5 to 70 percent weight of active ingredient may be satisfactorily employed to supply the desired dosage. When Berenil and the substituted nitroimidazoles of this invention are used in the prevention and treatment of human sleeping sickness , the compounds can be administered as intravenous, or intraperitoneal injections. The compounds are suspended or dissolved in an inert non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and administered. When used as a prophylactic, 2 12 mg. kg. of body weight are injected every 1 8 months. Certain of the nitroimidazole dompounds can also be used orally or intraperitoneally against Chagas disease which is caused by Trypanosoma cruzi.The oral dosage is 50 250 mg. per kilogram twice a day for 5 10 days. When the novel compositions of the present invention are used therapeutically to treat well established infections of trypanosomiasis, a preferred method of treatment is to administer Berenil at a dose range of about 2 mg. to about 50 mg. per kilogram of body weight and 20 mg. to 160 mg. per kilogram of body weight of the nitroimidazole administered concomitantly.