# Shampoo compositions.

## Abstract
Shampoo compositions containing an unsaturated quaternary ammonium compound and surfactant selected from betaines and mixtures of betaines and sultaines, which compositions exhibit improved low temperature stability due to the inclusion of a long chain acyl derivative.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A shampoo composition characterized by A a quaternary ammonium compound having at least one unsaturated long chain substituent and having an iodine value of from 10 to 85 B from 1 to 6 of a long chain acyl derivative selected from long chain amides, alkanol amides, esters of glycerine, esters of ethylene glycol, esters of carboxylic acids, esters of thiocarboxylic acids and mixtures thereof C from 10 to 30 of surfactant selected from higher alkyl betaines and mixtures of higher alkyl betaines and higher alkyl sultaines and, D from 50 to 80 water wherein said quaternary compound is present at a level equal to from 15 to 40 of the level of said surfactant. 2. A shampoo composition according to Claim 1 characterized in that the long chain acyl derivative is present at a level of from 1 to 4 . 3. A shampoo composition according to Claim 1 or 2 characterized in that the quaternary ammonium compound is present at a level equal to from 20 to 40 of the level of the betaine or of the mixture of betaine and sultaine. 4. A shampoo composition according to any of Claims 1 to 3. characterized in that the surfactant is present at a level of from 15 to 25. 5. A shampoo composition according to any of Claims 1 to 4 characterized in that the acyl derivative is selected from ethylene glycol distearate, ethylene glycol monostearate, stearyl stearate, stearic monoethanolamide, and distearyl dithiopropionate. 6. A shampoo composition according to any of Claims 1 to 5 characterized in that the quaternary ammonium compound is selected from di softened tallow dimethylammonium chloride, dioleyl dimethylammonium chloride, methyl l oleyl amido ethyl 2 oleyl imidazolinium methyl sulfate and mixtures thereof. 7. A shampoo composition according to any of Claims 1 to 6 characterized in that the surfactant is selected from cocoamidopropyl betaine, coco betaine, cocoamidopropyl sultaine and mixtures thereof.

## Description
SHAMPOO COMPOSITIONS RAYMOND E. BOLICH, JR. The present invention is related to stable conditioning shampoos containing an unsaturated long chain quaternary ammonium compound and a long chain acyl derivative. The use of unsaturated quaternary compounds in a variety of compositions is well known. U.S. Patent 3,117,113, January 7, 1964 to Tudor discloses the use of unsaturated quaternary compounds in vinyl chloride compositions. U.S. Patent 3,282,849, November 1, 1966 to Diehin et al discloses germicidal cleansing compositions which contain unsaturated ,quaternary compounds. U.S. Patent 3,577,528, May 4, 1971 to McDonough et al discloses unsaturated quaternary compounds in a two phase. conditioner product. U.S. Patent 3,849,348,November 19, 1974 to Hewitt discloses detergent compositions containing a betaine and amine oxide surfactant system along with an unsaturated quaternary. It is also disclosed in the prior art that long chain acyl derivatives are useful in compositions such as shampoos. U.S. Patent 3,990,991, November 9, 1976 to Gerstein discloses shampoos containing a cationic material and ethylene glycol distearate. U.S. Patent 4,061,602, December 6, 1977 to Oberstar et al discloses conditioning shampoos containing a cationic polymer and a polyethylene glycol distearate. U.S Patent 4,110,263,August 29, 1978. to Lindemann discloses detergent compositions containing alkylene oxylated bisquaternary compounds and a polyethylene glycol distearate. U.S.Patent.4,138,371, February 6, 1979 to Verdfccio discloses shampoo compositions containing a quaternized polymer and a polyethylene glycol distearate. While the above described references disclose compositions containing components of the type used in the present compositions, they do not teach or suggest the stability problems associated with unsaturated quaternary compounds found by Applicant, In addition the references fail to teach or suggest combining unsaturated quaternary compounds with long chain acyl derivatives in a single composition. It is, therefore, an object of the present invention to provide stable hair conditioning shampoo compositions. It is a further object of the present invention to provide shampoo compositions containing an unsaturated quaternary ammonium compound and a long chain acyl deri vative. These other objects will become more apparent from the detained description which follows. Unless otherwise indicated, all percentages heroin are by weight. DISCLOSURE OF THE INVENTION The compositions of the present invention comprise a quaternary ammonium compound having at least one unsaturated long chain substituent, from about 1 to about 6 of along chain acyl derivative, from about 108 to about 30 of a surfactant and from about 50 to about 80 water. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION The essehtial as well as optional components of the present compositions are described in detail below.Quaternary Ammonium Compound The unsaturated quaternary ammonium compounds useful in the present compositions have at least one and preferably two long chain hydrocarbon groups. By unsaturated herein is meant having an iodine value of from about 10 to about 85, preferably 20 to about 50. The chains contain an average of from about 16 to about 22, preferably from about 16 to about 18, carbon atoms. The remaining groups, if any, attached to the quaternary nitrogen atom, are preferably C1 to C4 alkyl or hydroxyalkyl groups. Although it is true that at least one of the long chains is unsaturated, as above described, these chains may also contain heteroatoms or other linkages, such as hydroxy groups and ester, amide. or ether linkages, as long as each chain falls within the required carbon atom ranges.Preferred quaternary ammonium compounds are those having the formulae EMI4.1 wherein the R1 and R2 groups contain an average of from about 16 to 22 carbon atoms, most preferably from about 16 to about 18 carbon atoms, R3 and R4 are C1 to C4 alkyl or hydroxyalkyl groups, and X is any compatible anion, particularly one selected from the group consisting of halide, hydroxide, methylsulfate, qr acetate anions. Mixtures of these agents are also useful in the present invention. Preferred quaternary compounds include di partially hydrogenated tallow dimethyl ammonium halide especially chloride which is also known as di softened tallow alkyl dimethylammonium halide. A commercially available compound of. this type is Adogen 470DE, sold bySherex Chemical Company which has an iodine value of. about 29, Other preferred quaternary compounds include dioleyl dimethylammonium chloride and methyl l oleyl amido ethyl 2 oleyl imidazolinium methylsulfate. The level of quaternary compound useful in the present compositions is based on the amount of betaine and sultaine surfactant used in the compositions. The amount of quaternary is generally from about 15 to about 50 , preferably from about 20 to about 40 , of those surfactants.Acyl Derivative The long chain C16 or longer acyl derivatives useful in the compositions are long chain amides, alkanolamides, esters of ethylene glycol and glycerine, esters of carboxylic acids melt point 5OOC, , esters of thiodicarboxylic acids, and mixtures of these derivatives. Examples of such derivatives include ethylene glycol distearate, stearyl stearate, stearic monoethanolamide stearamide MEA , and distearyl dithiopropionate.It is readily apparent that many other materials meet the general descriptions above. The acyl derivative is used at level of from about 1 to about 6 , preferably from. about 1 to a bout 4 , in the compositions of the present invention. Surfactant The essential surfactants used in the compositions of the present invention are higher alkyl betaines and mixtures of betaines and sultaines The betaines may be represented by the following structural formula i EMI6.1 wherein R1 is a long chain alkyl radical having from about 10 to about 18 carbon atoms or the amido radical R5 CoNH CH2 3 Wherein R5 is a long chain alkyl radical, R2 and R3 are each alkyl radicals having from.about 1 to about 3 carbon atoms, R4 is an alkylene or hydroxy alkylene radical having from about 1 to about 4 carbon atoms, and X is a carboxylate radical. R1 and R5 may be a mixture of long chain alkyl radicals and may contain one or more intermediate linkages or non functional substituents such as hydroxyl or halogen radicals which do not affect the hydrophobic character of the radical. Examples of betaines useful herein include cocodimethyl carboxymethyl betaine cocobetaine 1 lauryldimethyl carboxymethyl betaine lauryl betaine cetyl dimethyl carboxymethyl betaine cetyl betaine , coco amidopropyl dimethyl carboxymethyl betaine cocoamido propyl betaine , etc. The sultaines are betaines of the type described above except that a sulfonate radical is present in place of the carboxylate radical. Examples of sultaines useful herein are cocodimethyl sulfopropyl betaine coco sulfopropyl betaine , coco amidopropyl sulfopropyl betaine coco amidosulfopropyl betaine , lauryl dimethyl sulfopropyl betaine lauryl sulfopropyl betaine , etc. The amount of surfactant is from about 10 to about 30 , preferably from about 15 to about 25 .Water Water is the final essential ingredient of the present invention and is present at a level of from about 50 to about 80 , preferably from about 60 to about 75 . Optional Components The shampoos herein can contain a variety of nonessential optional ingredients suitable for rendering such compositions more stable and desirable. Such conventional optional ingredients are well known to those skilled in the art, e.g., preservatives such as benzyl alcohol methyl paraben, propyl paraben and imidazolidinyl urea other quaternary ammonium compounds which do not meet the above described unsaturation requirement such as distearyl dimethyl ammonium chloride thickeners and viscosity and modifiers such as coconut ethanol amide, sodium chloride, sodium sulfate, methylcellulose, polyvinyl alcohol, and ethyl alcohol pH adjusting agents such as citric acid, succinic acid, phosphoric acid, sodium hydroxide, sodium carbonate, etc. suspending agents such as hydrogenated castor toil perfumes dyes and, sequestering agents such as disodium ethylenediamine tetraacetate. Such agents generally are used individually at level of from about 0.01 to about 3 by weight of the compositions. The pH of the instant compositions is from about 5 to about 8. METHOD OF MANUFACTURE The shampoos of the present invention may be made in a variety of ways. A preferred method is set forth in Example I. INDUSTRIAL APPLICABILITY The present compositions are used in a conventional manner for cleaning hair. The following Examples further describe and demonstrate the preferred embodiments within the scope of the present invention. The Examples are given solely for the purpose of illustration and are not to be construed as limitations of the present invention as many variations thereof are possible without departing from its spirit and scope. Unless otherwise indicated, all percentages herein are by weight. EXAMPLE I The following composition of the present invention was prepared Ingredient Wgt Aerosol 301 35.70 Standapol AB 452 21.75 Adogen 470DE3 5.25 Stearyl dimethyl benzyl ammonium chloride stearalkonium chloride 1.00 Cocamide DEA 2.00 Perfume 0.75 Formalin 0 0.03 Conc. HC1 0.20 Ethylene glycol distearate 1.00 Dist. Water q.s.1 Cocoamidopropyl betaine 30 active American Cyanamid Co. 2 Coco betaine 35 active ,,Henkel Corp.3 Di softened tallow dimethyl ammonium chloride 75 active Sherex Chemical Co. Preparation For Example I To a one liter mix tank was added 357 grams ofAerosol 30, 217.5 grams of Standapol AB 45, 52.5 grams of Adogen 470DE, 10 grams of stearalkonium chloride, 20 grams of cocamide DEA, 7.5 grams of perfume, 0.3 grams of Formalin, 2 grams of conc. HC1 37 , 10 grams of ethylene glycol distearate, and 323.2 grams of distilled water. The contents of the mix tank. were heated with agitation. magnetic stirring hot plate to about 160OF., held there for about 15 minutes, and then allowed to cool to room temperature with gentle agitation. The resulting product shows no instability at 500F. The same product without EGDS shows physical separation at 500F. within 1 .3 months. EXAMPLE II. The following composition of the present invention was prepared in the manner described in Example I. Ingredient Wgt. Aerosol 30 . 29.95 Standapol AB 45 24.50 Adogen 470DE 10.75 Perfume 0.75 Formalin 0.03 Conc. HC1 0.10 Ethylene glycol distearate 2.00 Dist. Water q.s EXAMPLE III The following composition of the present invention is prepared in the manner described in Example I. Ingredient Wgt. Tegobetaine L 7 55.00 7 Varisoft 3690 6.00 Cocamide MEA 1.00 Perfume .50 Formalin ,03 Distearyl thiodipropionate 2.50 Dist Water q.s. 1 Cocoamidopropyl betaine 30 , Goldschmidt Products Corp.2. Methyl l oieyl amido ethyl 2 oleyl imidazolinium methyl sulfate 75 active, Sherex Chemical Company. EXAMPLE IV The following composition of the present invention is prepared in the manner described in Example I., Ingredient Wgt. Standapol AB 45 20.00 Lonzaine CS1 20.00 Adogen 4722 9.00 Lauramide DEA 1.50 Formalin .03 Perfume .25. Ethylene glycol monostearate . 5.00 Conc. HC1 0.25 bist. Water q.s.1 Cocoamidopropyl sultaine 50 Lonza, Inc.2 Dioleyl dimethyl ammonium chloride, 75 active, Sherex Chemical Company. EXAMPLE V The following composition of the present invention is prepared in the manner described in Example I. Ingredient Wgt. Aerosol 30 35.70 Standapol AB 45 . . 21.75 Adogen 470DE 4.00 Cocamide DEA 3.00 Perfume 0.75 Formalin 0.03 Conc. HCl .10 Stearamide MEA stearate 2.00 Dist. Water q.s.