# Detection of malignant tumor cells.

## Abstract
Described herein is the production of two products which are distinct species of anti malignin antibody, and the production of three artificially produced species of cell each of which has the distinguishing characteristic of manufactur ing either one or both species of anti malignin antibody. These anti malignin products are useful to detect the pre sence of cancerous or malignant tumor cells. These anti malignin products attach preferentially to cancerous or malignant tumor cells in cell collections in vitro or in vivo and thus can be detected by any attached visible or other signal emitter. This preferential attachment to malignant tumor cells also makes these products useful for metabolic and therapeutic purposes.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for producing monoclonal anti cancerRECOGNIN whereby the cancer RECOGNIN, or a purified fraction thereof, which when injected into an organism has the ability to induce or to cause cells of said organism to reproduce. specific anti caner RECOGNIN, which forms a single line precipitate with its specific anti body in quantitative precipitin tests and Ouchterlony gel diffusion tests, is soluble in water and aqueous solutions having a spectrophotometric absorption peak wave length of 280 mu and a molecular weight of from. 3,000 to 25,000, and further has an aminoacid residue composition with high proportiens of glutamic and aspartic acids and high ratios of glutamic and aspartic acids to histidine, characterized in that such anti cancer RECOGNIN producing cells are subsequently treated to make them self perpetuating and identified by their production of ant cancer RECOGNIN, said cancer RECOGNIN comprising a product, derived from cancerous tumor tissue or cells. 2. The process according to claim 1, wherein said organism is a mouse or other mammal. 3. The process according to claim I, wherein said induced cells are spleen cells. 4. The process according to claim 1, wherein said treatmerit of the induced cells is a process of hybridization whereby said induced cell is hybridized with any self perpetuating cell to produce an unique hybridized self perpetuating cell. 5. The process according to claim 1, wherein treatment of the induced cell involves their hybridization with myeloma cells. 6. The process according to claim 1, wherein said self perpetuating cells are selected by cloning and testing each clone thus produced for its ability to produce the specific monoclonal antecancer RECOGNIN. 7. The process according to claim 1, wherein said anti RECOGIN ANTIBODY IS AN MALIGHIN ais bou y a whereby the injected RECOGNIN is MALIGNIN or a purified fraction thereof or a structural relative of MALIGNIN which produces or reacts specifically with anti malignin antibody, whereby said product or a purified fraction thereof preferentially attaches to cancerous cells and can thereby be detected by attached visible or signal emitting means, said MALIGNIN comprising a product, derived from brain tumor cellos, which forms a single line precipitate with its specific antibody in quantit ative precipitin tests and Ouchterlony gel diffusion tests, being soluble in water and aqueous solution having an acid or neutral pH, and insoluble at an alkaline pH, and has a spectrophotometric absorption peak wave length of 280 mu, a molecular weight of 10,000 and an aminoacid composition approximately as follows Approximate No. of Residues Aspartic Acid 9 Th r eon i ne 5 Serine 5 Glutamic Acid 13 Prowl ine 4 Glycine 6 Alanine 7 Vat ine 6 1 2 Cysteine 1 Methionine 2 Isoleucine o 4 Leucine 8 Tryos i ne 3 Phenylalanine 3 Lysine 6 Histidine 2 Arginine 5 89 the aminoacids cysteic, hydroxyprol ine, norleucine, ammonia, isodesmosine, lysinonorleucine and gammaaminobutyric acid being absent in detectable amounts. 8. A process for detecting the presence of cancerous or malignant tumor cells in a cell collection, comprising applying to said cell collection a specific monoclonal anti cancer RECOGNIN, which preferentially attaches to cance.rous cells and can thereby be detected by attached visible or signal emitting means, said cancerRECOGNIN comprising a product, derived from cancerous tumor tissue or cellos, characterised by forming a single line precipitate with its specific antibody in quantitative precipitin tests and Ouchterlony gel diffusion tests, being soluble in water and aqueous solutions having an acid or neutral pH, and insoluble at alkaline pH, having a spectrophotometric absorption peak wavelength of 280 mu and a molecular weight of from 3,000 to 25,000, and further characterized by having an aminoacid residue composition characterized by high proportions of glutamic and aspartic acids and high ratios of glutamic and aspartic acids to histidine. 9. The process according to claim 8,.wherein said cell collection is in vivo. 10. The process according to claim 8, wherein said cell collec tion is in vitro. 11. The process according to claim 8, wherein the cancer RECOGNIN is MALIGNIN. 12. The product comprising monoclonal antiMALIGNIN antibody FAST or a purified fraction thereof, whe reby said product or a purified fraction thereof preferentially attaches to cancerous cells and can thereby be detected by attached visible or signalemitting means, said MALIGNIN comprising a product, derived I rom Drain tumor eesias I i which I l1 forms a single line precipitate with its specific antibody in quantitative precipitin tests and Ouchterlony ge l diffusion tests, being soluble in water and aqueous solutions having an acid or neutral pH, and insoluble at an alkaline pH, and has a spectrophotometric absorpotion peak wave length of 280 mu, a molecular weight of 10,000 and an aminoacid composition approximately as follows Approximate No. of Residues Aspartic Acid 9 Th r eon i ne 5 Seine 5 Glutamic Acid 13 Prowl ine 4 Glycine 6 Alanine 7 Valine 6 1 2 Cysteine 1 Methionine 2 Isoleucine 4 Leucine 8 Tryos i ne 3 Phenylalanine 3 Lysine 6 Histidine 2 Arginine 5 89 the aminoacids cysteic, hydroxyproline, norleucine, ammonia, isodesmosine, lysinorleucine and gamma amino butyric acid being absent in detectable amounts. 13. The product comprising monoclonal anti MALIGNIN antibody SLOW or a purified fraction thereof., whereby said product or a purified fraction thereof preferentially attaches to cancerous cells and can thereby be detected by attached visible or stghal emitting meaflsr said MALIGNIN comprising a product, derived from brain tumor cells, which forms a single line precipitate with its specific antibody in quantitative precipitan tests and Ouchterlony gel diffusion tests, being soluble in water and aqueous solution having an acid or neutral pH, and insoluble at an alkaline pH, and has a spectrophotometric absorption peak wave length of 280 mu, a molecular weight of 10,000 and an aminoacid composition approximately as follows Approximate No. of Residues Aspartic Acid 9 Thr eon i ne 5 Seine 5 Glutamic Acid 13 Prowl ine 4 Glycine 6 Alanine 7 Vat ine 6 1 2 Cysteine I Methionine 2 Isoleucine 4 Leucine 8 Tryos i ne 3 Phenylalanine 3 Lysine 6 Histidine 2 Arginine 5 89 the aminoacids cysteic, hydroxyprol ine, norleucine, ammonia, isodesmosine, lysinonorleucine and gammaaminobutyric acid being absent in detectable amounts. 14. The product comprising monoclonal antiMALIGNIN antibody FAST and SLOW or a purified fraction Lt wt 9 rw zytotoxic . I I cancer cells, whereby said product or a purified fraction thereof preferentially attaches to cancerous cells and can thereby be detected by attached visible or signalemitting means, said MALIGNIN comprising product, derived from brain tumor cells, which forms a single line precipitate with its specific antibody in quantitative precipitin tests and Ouchterlony gel diffusion tests, being soluble in water and aqueous solution having an acid or neutral pH, and insoluble at an alkaline pH, and has a spectrophotometric absorption peak wave length of 280 mu, a molecular weight of 10,000, and an aminoacid composition approximately as follows Approximate No. of Residues. Aspartic Acid 9 Th reon i ne 5 Seine 5 Glutamic Acid 13 Prowl ine 4 Glycine 6 Alanine 7 Vat ine 6 1 2 Cysteine 1 Methionine 2 Isoleucine 4 Leucine 8 Tryosine 3 Phenylalanine 3 Lysine 6 Histidine 2 Arginine 5 89 the aminoacids cysteic, hydroxyprol ine, norleucine, amnonia, is isodesmosin, 5 inczorleQ ine and gamma aminobutyric acid being absent in detectable amounts. 15. The product according to claim 12, wherein said monoclonal anti MALIGNIN antibody FAST or a purified fraction thereof, when mixed with the product according to claim 13, monoclonal anti MALIGNIN antibody SLOW or a purified fraction thereof, whereby said mixture is cytotoxic to and kilts cancerous cells. 16. The product according to claim 12, wherein said monoclonal anti MALIGNIN antibody FAST is complexed with any substance which it is desired to have preferentially attached to cancerous cells. 17. The product according to claim 13, wherein said monoclonal anti MALIGNIN antibody SLOW is complexed with any substance which it is desired to have preferentially attached to cancerous cells. 18. The product according to claim 14 wherein said monoclonal anti MALIGNIN antibody FAST SLOW is complexed with any substance which it is desired to have preferentially attached to cancer cells. 19. The product comprising monoclonal anti cancerRECOGNIN, whereby said anti cancer RECOGNIN is produced by the inject ion into an organism of a cancer RECOGNIN, said cancer RECOGNIN having the ability to induce or to cause cells of said organism to produce specific anticancer RECOGNIN, wherein such anti cancer RECOGNIN producing cells are subsequently treated to make them self perpetuating and identified by their production of monoclonal anti cancer RECOGNIN, said cancer RECOGNIN co mprising a product, derived from cancerous tumor tissue or cellos, characterized by forming a single line precipitate with its specific antibody in quantitative precipitin tests and Ouchterlony gel diffusion tested, ut 111 soluble in and aqueous solution having 4 t. acid or neutral pH, and insoluble at alkaline pH, haying a spectrophotometric absorption peak wavelength of 280 mu and a molecular weight of from 3,000 to 25,000 and further characterized by having an aminoacid residue composition characterized by high proportions of glutamic and aspartic acids and high ratios of glutamic and aspartic acids to histidine. 20. The product according to claim 19, wherein said monoclonal anti cancer RECOGNIN or a purified fraction thereof preferentially attaches to cancerous cells and can thereby be detected by attached visible or signal emitting means. 21. The product according to claim 19, wherein said monoclonal anti cancer RECOGNIN or a purified fraction thereof is cytotoxic to and kills cancerous cells. 22. The product according to claim 19, wherein said monoclonal anti cancer RECOGNIN or a purified fraction thereof is complexed with any substance which it is desired to have preferentially attached to cancerous cells. 23. The product comprising monoclonal anti NlALIGNIN antibody FAST PRODUCER cell which is characterized by the ability to reproduce itself in perpetuity and to produce monoclonal anti MALIGNIN antibody FAST, whereby said PRODUCER cell has had its desoxyribonucleic acid specifically programmed by MALlGNIN to produce the anti MALIGNIN antibody, said MALIGNIN comprising a produc t, derived from brain tumor cells, which forms a single line precipitate with its specific antibody in quantitative precipitin tests and Ouchterlony gel diffusion tests, being soluble in water and aqueous solutions having an acid or neutral pH, and insoluble at an alkaline pH, and has a spectrophotometric absorption peak wave length of 280 mu, a molecular weight of 10,000 and an aminoacid composition approximately as follows Approximate No. of Residues Aspartic Acid 9 Th r eon i ne 5 Serine 5 Glutamic Acid 13 Prowl ine 4 Glycine 6 Alanine 7 Vat ine 6 1 2 Cysteine Methionine 2 Isoleucine 4 Leuc i ne 8 Tryos i ne 3 Phenylalanine 3 Lysine 6 Hi stidine 2 Arginine 5 89 the aminoacids cysteic, hydroxyprol ine, norleucine, ammonia, isodesmosine, lysinonorleucine and gamma aminobutyr ic acid being absent in detectable amounts. 24. The product comprising monoclonal antiMALIGNIN antibody SLOW PRODUCER cell which is characte.rized by the ability to reproduce itself in perpetuit y and to produce monoclonal anti MALIGNIN antibody SLOW, whereby said PRODUCER cell has had its desoxyribonucleic acid specificafly programmed by the anti MALIGNI antibody MALIGNIN comprising a product, derived from brain tumor cells, which forms a single line precipitate with its specific antibody in quantitative precipitin tests. andOuchterlony gell diffusion tests, being soluble in water and aqueous solutions having an acid.or neutral pH, and insoluble at an alkaline pH, and has a spectrophotometric absorption peak wave length of 280 m, a molecular weight of 10,000, and an aminoacid composition approximately as follows Approximate No. of Residues Aspartic Acid 9 Threon i ne 5 Seine 5 Glu tamic Acid 13 Prowl ine 4 Glycine 6 Alanine 7 Vat ine 6 1 2 Cysteine 1 Methionine 2 Isoleucine 4 Leuci ne 8 Tryos ine 3 Phenylalanine 3 Lysine 6 Histidine 2 Arg inine 5 89 the aminoacids cysteic, hydroxyproline, norleucine, ammonia, i sodesmosine, lysinonorleucine and gamma aminobutyric acid being absent in detectable amounts.. 25. The product comprising monoclonal antiMALIGNIN antibody FAST and SLOW PRODUDER cell which is characterized by the ability to reproduce itself in perpetuity and to produce monoclonal anti MAL.IGNIN antibody PASI ana Luw, whereby said P,z2CUER cell has had its desoxyribonucleic acid specifically programmed by MALIGNIN to produce the anti MALIGNIN antibody, saidMALIGNIN comprising a product, derived from brain tumor cells, which forms a single line precipitate with its specific antibody in quantitative precipitin tests andOuchterlony gel diffusion tests, being soluble in water and aqueous solutions having an acid or neutral pH, and insoluble at an alkaline pH, and has a spectrophotometric absorption peak wave length of 280 mu, a molecular weight of 10,000, and an aminoacid composition approximately as follows Approximate No. of Residues Aspartic Acid 9 Th r eon i ne 5 Seine 5 Glutamic Acid 13 Prowl ine 4 Glycine 6 Alanine 7 Vat ine 6 1 2 Cysteine 1 Methionine 2 Isoleucine 4 Leucine 8 Tryosine 3 Phenylalanine 3 Lysine 6 Histidine 2 Arginine 5 89 the aminoacids cysteic, hydroxyproline, norleucine, ammonia, isodesmosine, lysinonorleucine and gammaaminobutyric acid being absent in detectable amounts. 26. The product which comprises the desoxyribon ucleic acid of Claim 23. 27. The product which comprises the desoxyribon ucleic acid of Claim 24. 28. The product which comprises the desoxyribonucleic acid of Claim 25. 29. The product which comprises the ribonucleic acid of any one of Claims 23 to 25.

## Description
Title Detection of Malignant Tumor Cells This invention relates to 1 the production of two products which are distinct specie.s of antimalignin antibody and 2 the production of three artificially produced species of cell, each of which has the distinguishing characteristic of man.ufact uring either one or both species of anti malignin antibody whereby the above products, both the antibodies themselves and the cells which produce them, are useful for diagnostic, metabolic and therapeutic purposes. The process of fusion of cell hybrids, is now a routinely used and accepted procedure in the art Monoclonal Antibodies, Cesar Milstein, ScientificAmerican, May 1980, pp. 66 74 . The production of antibodies by the injection of tumor cells into animals has also been a common procedure in the art for many years. An U.S. patent No. 4,172,124, HillaryKoprowski and Carlo M. Croce relates to a method of producing antibodies to whole tumor cells, the critical first step of which is the injection into an animal of whole cells from various tumors, and therefore differs from the present invention which does not utilize the injection., of whole cells but rather requires the use of a specific polypeptide composition, Malignin, the subject of my U.S.Patents No. 4,195,017 and 4,196,186, to produce specific species of a specific antibody, antimalignin antbody. Malignin was earlier used to produce anti malignin antibody, also a subject of my earlier patents above. But whereas these patents describe the production of polyclonal anti malignin antibody in mammals, the antimalignin antibodies of the present invention are mono clonal, and are the products of single artificially produced cells. In addition to a different mode of production s will he set forth herein, the present monoclonal antibodies have unique properties, and should therefore be uniquely referred to in order to distinguish them from the anti malignin antibody which is polyclonal, is produced in mammals, and has different properties. The artificially produced cell lines themselves, which have been produced by the present invention, and have the ability to produce Monoclonal Anti MaligninAntibodies, have themselves the characteristic novel feature that a single monoclonal line or type of cell has been produced artificially with the patented productMalignin, and perpetuated in vitro, with the ability to produce Monoclonal Anti Malignin Antibody. Further, this novel cell line can produce Monoclonal Anti MaligninAntibody in perpetuity and in any quantities desired.These new artificial cells are therefore herewith designated Monoclonal Anti Malignin Antibody Producing Cells.The new cells have immediate uses which are related to the uses of their product antibody, i.e. both diagnostic and therapeutic uses. Thus, the earlier patents referred to above make clear both in their specifications and their examples the use of the antibody diagnosticalAy to identify the presence of either the antigen Malignin, or any cells which contain Malignin, or to treat therapeut ically i.e. destroy such cells, i.e. malignant. or cancerous cells, by the specific reaction of anti malignin antibody with its specific antigen malignin, whether in solution or fixed in cells see Examples 11, llA, 12 for the use of the antibody to stain cancer cells specifically in immunofluoresence, and see Example 13 for the use of the antibody to identify or attach specifically to cancer cells carrying either a signalemitter for identification and localization of the cancer cells in the body, or carrying an anti cancer drug or chemical to be concentrated in the cancer cell for its destruction, as well asExamples 16, 17 where the antibody alone is used to treat destroy cancer cel Is . From the earl lest proauction by the invention o. anti malignin antibody issued U.S. Patents Nos.4,195,017 and 4,196,186 two constituent species of the antibody were recognized Fast Target attachingglobulin F TAG , which combined rapidly in vitro, within ten minutes, with its specific imnobilized antigen malignin and. 2 Slow Target attaching globulin S TAG , which combined slowly in vitro, within two hours, with its specific immobilized antigen malignin see Examples 10, lOA . Both S TAG and F TAG were produced from blood serum, and the determination of their concentration in the serum of individuals became the basis of the cancer diagnostic test which is the subject of issued PatentNo. 4,196,186. The method of production of each species However never yielded either one completely free of the other.The present invention is a marked improvement since it describes the production of an unique novel cell line which produces only the S TAG species, one cell line which produces only the F TAG species, and one cell line which produces both species. As summarized above, the ability of the previous polyclonal anti malignin antibody, which contained both species, to destroy cancer cells specifically cytotox icity was described in U.S. Patent No. 4,195,017. I huve now found that the single species of monoclonal antibody product produced here for the first time forS TAG, Monoclonal Anti Malignin Antibody Slow MAM4 S , attaches preferentially to cancer cells but does not destroy them. Also, the single species of monoclonal antibody product here produced for the first time for F TAG, Monoclonal Anti Malignin Antibody Fast MAMA F attaches preferentially to cancer cells but does notdestroy them.The species of combined antibody here produced for the first time by monoclonal producer cells, designated MAMA FS, as well as an artificial mixture of the two antibodies MAMA S and MAMA F, attach preferentially to cancer cells and destroy them. The separation of the attachment from the destruction functions of the species of the anti malignin antibody described in this invention has important applications in the separate uses of the antibody now possible for diagnosis on the one hand and for treatment destruction of cancer cells on the other. The respective novel producer cells are designated MAMA S Producer, MAMA F Producer, and MAMA ES Producer, each being uniquely characterized by its specific antibody product. The careful study over the past seven years of the possible relation of the concentra tion of anti malignin antibody in the serum of individual patients suffering from cancer has provided unequivocal data presented in this application Example IOA that patients who survive longer, 13 to 46 months, have higher levels of antibody than those who died in one year. Of all patients with low levels of antibody 83.3 were dead within one year mean 4.4 3.5 mos. . This clear association of survival with increased amounts of anti malignin antibody gives new significance to. the therapeutic usefulness of this antibody. Whereas the therapeutic use of anti malignin antibody was clearly demonstrated in the earlier patents of this series cytotoxicity to cancer cells , it was not known how much difference the availability of extra antibody would make to the balance between cancer and normal cells, that is, how important this therapy might be to the survival of the cancer patient. The present Clinical study makes it clear that the level of anti malignin antibody available appears.to be clearly associated with survival. The products described in this application whereby the patented product malignin has been used to produce novel cells which themselves manufacture in perpetuity and in virtually limitless quantities specific preferential ly attaching and cancer cel l des troying anti maiinSr n tihnCliPF therefore acquire added siQnif icance as novel therapeutic anti cancer products. These novel cells, which have been produced artificially only through contact with the patented product mal ignin, carry the permanent instruction in their genetic apparatus to manufacture the particular antibody product indefinitely. They also carry the instruction to continue to divide indefinitely. Both these instructions are seen to be carried out in the Examples herein. It follows to those familiar with the art that the particular cellular constituents which carry this genetic information can now be isolated and induced to perform their particular functions in the antibody manufacture in vitro should this be particularly useful. For example, should there be an efficiency, cost or other advantage in doing so, the nucleic acid of the producer cell which carries the specific information for manufacturing the particular monoclonal anti malignin antibody produced by that particular cell can now be removed and isolated from the other cellular constituents and inserted into another type of cell, for example, bacterial, which may, e.g., divide more quickly, be less susceptible to contamination during bulk manufacture, or be less costly to maintain in the laboratory continuously.This is only one example of the application of any method practiced by the art which may only be used once the specific cell, MAMA S, MAMA F or MAMA FS, produced by the specific product malignin, has been produced and shown to be self perpetuating as described below. Anti malignin antibody reacts specifically immunologically not only with the antigen malignin, but also with structurally closely related products such asAstrocytin, Recognin L and Recognin M. The present invention therefore continues to be directed to the novel group of compounds, herein termed Recognins.Recognins are made by treating tumor cells or artificial cancer cells and separately the desired products. The Recognijns may be used to prepare their Chemoreciprocals, i.e., by contacting the Recognins , or the Recognin s on a support, with body fluids. These Chemoreciprocals are useful for diagnostic and therapeutic purposes, i.e., for diagnosing and treating cancers. One of the Recognins of the present invention isAstrocyctin. Astrocytin has been produced from brain tumor tissue, preferably brain glioma tumor tissue.Protein fractibns containing the Astrocytin precursor are first extracted from the tissue. A preferred method of accomplishing the extraction is to treat the tissue with a neutral buffer under conditions of homogeniza.tion, or other techniques, to disrupt the cells and tissues in order to solubil ize protein fractions which contain theAstrocytin precursor. At this point, the Astrocytin precursor is still bound to many large molecular weight substances, including proteins, glycoproteins, lipoproteins, nucleic acids and nucleo proteins, for example . The solubil ized proteins are then separated from the resulting tissue extract.The extract solution from the tissue is clarified to remove insoluble particles. The low molecular weight contaminants are removed from the resulting solution, by a perevaporation concentration technique. The solution which is obtained is then treated to cleave Astrocytin precursor from other contaminants in order to obtain the protein fraction having a pK range between 1 and 4. Thus, for example, the solution is placed on a chromatographic column and eluted with increasingly acidic solvents. All of the fractions which are. eluted in the neutral or acid range down to pK 4 are discarded and those fractions with pK range I 4 are collected. The eluate is treated to yield a product having a molecular weight of 8,000.This is accomplished, for example, by first filtering the material to remove low molecular weight substances, i.e., those below 1,000 molecular weight, and filtering again to remove those above 25,000. The fraction having a molecular weight between 1,000 and 25,000 is then further treated, i.e., b y thin layer gel TLG chromatography, to yield Astrocytin. Thus, Astrocytin may be produced by extracting brain glioma tumor tissue with a neutral buffer, by repeated homogenization and by high speed centrifuging, separating from the resulting extract the fraction having a pK range of from I to 4, separating from said fraction the substances having a high molecular weight, i.e., up to 230,000, and isolating therefrom the productAstrocytin having a molecular weight of 8,000. The product Astrocytin prepared in accordance with this process is characterized by forming a single line precipitate with its specific antibody in quantitative precipitin tests and Ouchterlony gel diffusion tests, being soluble in water and aqueous solutions having an acid or neutral pH, and insoluble at an alkaline pH, having a spectrophotometric absorption peak wave length of 280. my and having a molecular weight of 8,000. Astrocytin is also characterized by having a very high percentage of residues of glutamic acid and aspartic acid and a very high ratio of these acids to histidine. A further analysis of Astrocytin is provided below. In a manner similar to that described above, another Recognin, called Malignin, has been produced from art finial cancer cellos, i.e., cancer cells grown in vitro. Malignin has a molecular weight of 10,000 and a similar but distinct aminoacid residue composition to Astro cytin, i.e., high amounts of glutaminic acid and aspartic acid and high ratios of these acids to histidine. A further analysis of Malignin is provided below. Thus, Malignin can be produced by extracting artificial cancer cells grown in culture with a neutral buffer by repeated homogenization and high speed centrifuging, separating from th e resulting extract the fraction having a pK range ot I to 4, separating ft n said fraction the substances. having a high molecular weight, i.e. up to 230,000 and isolating therefrom the product having a molecular weight of 10,000. Malignin prepared in accordance with this process is characterized by forming a single line precipitate with its specific antibody in quantitative precipitin tests and Ouchterlony gel diffusion tests, being soluble in water and aqueous solutions having an acid or neutral pH, and insoluble dt an alkaline pH, having a spectrophotometric absorption peak wave length of 280 my and having a molecular weight of 10,000. Recognins are further characterized by. being capable of complexing with bromoacetylcel lulose to form bromoacetyl cellulose Recognin and producing specific AntiRecognin antibodies upon injection into mammals, theAnti Recognins being toxic to brain tumor cells in vitro and producing fluorescence of glioma cells when coupled with fluorescein, as described in further detail below. Recognins, such as Astrocytin, Malignin and similar substances are useful as products which may be introduced into a biological system to reduce foreign reactions, such as by coating a material with a Recognin. A further example may be to introduce a Recognin in order to produce the Chemoreciprocals in the biological system. They may also be used nutritionally to encourage the growth of a particular biological system of which they are a part.A further use for Recognins is the production of Target reagents which comprise the complexes of the Recognins wit carriers to facilitate their applicability in biol ogical systems. Thus, for example, the complex conveys the physicochemical characteristics of theRecognin itself. The carrier should be selected from those which form a complex with the Recognin and which are substantially biologically inert. Any substance known in the art which will form a stable complex with polypeptides or proteins may oe useful for complexing with Recognins. An example is a cellulose based material, such as bromoacetylcellulose. In addition to being inert to the biolog ical system, the carrier should not alter the specific physicochemical properties of the Recognin which are useful for the purposes set forth herein. The complex of the Recognin and its carrier is useful for producing, separating and identifying its chemoreciprocal in any biological system with which it is brought into contact. The Recognin carrier complex is also useful for stimulating the production of its chemoreciprocal precursor in any biological system into which it is introduced. One class of Chemoreciprocals are the anti Recognins, e.g., anti Astrocytin and anti Malignin. These may be made by injecting the Recognin into a biological system.An immunologically effective dose of Recognin is brought into contact with bodily tissues or fluids in a manner which induces an antibody response in accordance with techniques known in the art, for producing antibodies.The anti Recognins may be used for the delivery of materials such as diagnostic, nutritional and therapeutic agents to specific cells or sites in a biological system which comprises introducing said agent in complexed form with the anti Recognin into the biolog ical system. The anti Recognins are also useful for diagnosing the presence of tumor cells in an histology section, by applying the Anti Recognin conjugated with a labelling substance such as a dye or radio active substance, to said section, whereby staining or radioactive labelling occurs only with tumor cells. Yet another use for anti Recognins is for increasing the yield of other useful Chemoreciprocal products such as TAG, described below from a mammal which comprises injecting an immunologically effective dose of theRecognin into the mammal, or other biological system. Another class of Chemoreciprocals is Target reagents complexed with their chemoreciprocals. For example, the Target product of Astrocytin complexed with a carrier such as bromoacetylcel lulose is brought into contact with anti Astrocytin. This type of compound may be complexed with, and used for, the delivery of diagnostic, nutritional and therapeutic agents to specific cells or sites in a biological system. These compounds may also be used for purification procedures.For example, Anti Astrocytin may be made by the decomplexing of Bromoacetylcellulose Astrocytin Anti Astrocytin by hydrolytic treatment with an acid or proteinase enzyme. Target reagents are also useful for increasing the amount of TAG products described below in a biological system, such as by bringing an immuno logically effective dose of Target into contact with bodily tissues or fluids. Additional Chemoreciprocals are TAG reagents e.g.,Target Attaching Globulins . The TAG products are produced by bringing Target reagents into contact with body fluids for varying periods of time to form a complex and cleaving TAG therefrom. Two useful embodiments areS TAG and F TAG. A process for producing S TAG Slow Target Attach ing Globulin comprises reacting a blood serum or other body fluid with a Target product e.g., Bromoacetyl cel lulose Mal ignin for approximately two hours or more at a low temperature, e.g., 4 C, and cleaving S TAG from the resulting material, e.g., with a dilute acid, for approximately two hours at a temperature of 37 C. The product S TAG prepared in accordance with this process is characterized by being soluble in aqueous buffer solutions, forming a single line precipitate with its corresponding Recognin in Ouchterlony gel diffusion tests, being non dialysabl3 in cellophane membranes, being retained by milllpore tilters wnich retain mv cules of over 10,000 molecular weight, having molecular weights in different states of aggregation as determined by thin layer gel chromatography of approximately 50,000 and multiples thereof into the macrogloblin range, and having a spectrophotometric absorption peak wave length of 280 mp. A process for producing an F TAG product Fast Target Attaching Globulin comprises reacting a blood serum or other body fluid with a Target reagent e.g., Bromoacetylcellulose Malignin for approximately 10 minutes at a low temperature, e.g., 4 C, and cleavingF TAG from the resulting material, e.g., with a dilute acid, for approximately two hours at a temperature of 37 C. The product F TAG prepared in accordance with this process is characterized by being soluble in aqueous buffered solutions, forming a single line prec ipitate with its corresponding Recognin in Ouchterlony gel diffusion tests, being non dialysable in cellophane membranes, being retained by millipore filters which retain molecules over 25,000 molecular weight, having molecular weights in different states of aggregation as determined by thin layer gel chromatography of approx imately 50,000 and multiples thereof into the macroglobulin range, and having a spectrophotometric absorption peak wave length of 280 mp. TAG products are useful for detecting cancer tumors in living mammals by determining the concentrations ofS TAG and F TAG produced by a known volume of the mammals blood serum or other body fluid and correlating this concentration with amounts determined to be indicative of cancer. TAG products are also useful for diagnosing the presence of tumor cells in an histology section, which comprises applying TAG conjugated with a labelling substance such as a dye or radioactive substance, to said section, whereby staining or radioactive labelling occurs only with tumor cells. TAG products have additionally been found to be cytotoxic to tumor cells.TAG products are also useful for directing the delivery of diagnostic, nutritional and therapeutic agents to specific cells or sites by introducing said agents in complexed form with the TAG product. Normal cell division in plants or animals is restricted or inhibited when the cells come to occupy fully a particular space. The mechanisms a by which normal cells recognize that they have filled the space available to them, and b by which the operation of this recognition mechanism in turn inhibits cell division, have both been unknown. I have pr eviously produced a group of compounds whose precursors are increased in concentration when normal recognition and learning occur, and which relate to recognition and learning in particles and cells, and with the connection of cells to each other. These compounds were termedRecognins. By attempting to produce these compounds from normal cancer cells, the inventor has discovered that they are absent as such, and that changes in their molecular structure have occurred at the same time that the cancer cells have lost their ability a to recognize that they have filled their normal volume, and or b to stop dividing when they have filled their normal volume. Recognins are compounds with physicochemical characteristics which mimic those configurations characteristic of cancer cells in terms of their failure to recognise and stop cell division. The use of Recognins goes beyond insight into the cancer mechanism, for immediate products and methods are thereby provided which are useful in the diagnosis and treatment of cancer, and for its prevention. I have discovered methods by which artificially cultured cells can be used to produce Recognins in particular Malignins. One advantage of the methods disclosed herein is that Recognins ana tne proÅauczz derived therefrorn can be manufactured efficiently in virtually limitless quantities. This discovery transcends the field of cancer research and is immediately applicable to any and all biological systems in which it is desired to influence growth and metabolism. Thus, by the manufacture of the particular compound or compounds of appropriate cell type in artificial culture, and the further manufacture of products from these substances, a spec ific influence may be brought two bear on any tissue, cell, cell organel le, sub organelle molecule or molecular aggregate in any living system. Thus, specific nutritional influences at critical times in development, specific diagnostic, preventative and treatment methods, and the construction of artifi cial bioelectrical systems as in tissue or organ transplants can all be affected.These artificial bioelectrical systems can be made to bear the characteristics of the specific Recognin or Recognin chemoreciprocal of the normal tissue or component which they will neighbour, and thus avoid being recognized as foreign and thus avoid the usual reactions to alien substances, including rejection. Another aspect of this invention is the production of a valuable specific antibody like product AntiAstrocytin to a specific brain product Astrocytin , permitting the use of this antibody like product spec ifically to complex with and, as a specific delivery vchicle to, specific points in the nervous systems of various species. The TARGET ATTACHING GLOBULINS TAG , are so named because they are produced by two reactions, the first reacting biological fluids with a synthetic complex containing physicochemical configurations which mimic those of the MALIGNINS and called TARGET, the second, cleaving the specific TAG from the complex, and b the measure of the TAG so produced obtaining a quantitative indication from the biological fluids of living organ isms as to whether there is present a tumor in that organism and, hence, a diagnostic test for tumors.Because TAG products and ANTI MALIGNIN are physicochemically complementary to MALIGNINS, they are termed CHEMOREC I PROCAL S . I have further previously discovered that two quant itatively and qualitatively distinct TAG products can be produced depending upon the time permitted for the reaction of serum with the specific TARGET reagent used, and depending upon the time permitted for the cleavage of the product which has been complexed. After examining the amounts of these products which could be produced from a number of different individuals with brain tumors and various other medical disorders, as well as in those with no apparent disease process, it became apparent that the amounts of these two new products which could be produced in a given individual was indicative of whether that individual had a malignant tumor, and hence provided a serum diagnostic test for malignant tumors. The uses of these products, in addition to their use in diagnosing from serum and other biological fluids the presence of brain and other tumors, are illustrated by the demonstration that TAG and anti RECOGNIN compounds attach to glial tumor cells preferentially in histological Sections of brain tumor and surrounding tissue removed at surgery of the brain tumor. This preferential labelling by TAG and Anti RECOGNINS of tumor cells is demonstrated through standard imnunofluorescent techniques.Thus a method is also available for deter mining through histological examination with a new degree of certainty whether tumor cells are present in the tissue removed, and whether these tumor cells have penetrated to tne very edges os sne tissue ro y indicating the likelihood that the tumor still remains in the brain or other organ, or that tumor cells are absent from the periphery of the tissue removed, indicating the possibility that all of the tumor has been removed from the brain or other organ. In addition, the TAG and Anti RECOGNINS produced as described have.been found to be cytotoxic to glioma brain tumor cells grown in tissue culture in vitro. This high affinity for tumor cells in another medium, here grown in tissue culture, is further evidence of the specific coupling potential of the new product TAG, and explains the adopt ion of the name TARGET ATTACHING GLOBULINS TAG as do TAG s properties in regard to the synthetic product TARGET, and to tumor cells in histological section. Further, the cytotoxicity of TAG and anti RECOGNINS for tumor cells provides an additional new diagnostic test for the serum of patients who are suspected of suffering from a tumor. Thus, for, example, the serum or other body, fluid of these patients is reacted with a TARGET reagent to produce TAG and the product TAG is tested in tissue culture growths of tumor cells for cytotoxicity. Both the concentration of TAG and. the degree of cytotoxicity manifested by the TAG which can be produced from a given individual s serum may be not only diagnostic but alsb of value in tracing the course of the disorder pre operatively and postoperatively in a given patient. The coupling of radioactive and dye tracers to TAG provides new TAG products which are useful in vivo in the diag nosis of tumors and in their exact localization.Thus, the injection of suitably labelled TAG either intraarterially or intravenously, into the cerebrospinal fluid, or directly into brain tissue or its cavities, permits the demonstration by radioactive means, or by visualization of the coupled dye, of the presence of a brain tumor, for it is only to the tumor cells that the TAG specifically attaches. Further, this method permits the precise visualization of the location of the brain tumor. This can be seen to be an improvement of the in vivo diagnostic method using anti ASTROCYTIN produced in rabbit blood to label the brain tumor, because the use of TAG reagents produced from human serum avoids the possibility of foreign protein reactions.Since the TAG reagents and anti RECOGNINS have the chemical specificity which permits preferential attachment to ASTROCYTIN precursor containing tumor cells both in vitro and in vivo, these products may also be used therapeutically, as well as diagnostically, when coupled, e.g., with radioactive, proton capture agents, or other toxic physical or chemical agents, so that these toxic substances may be localized preferentially through these compounds spcificity of attachment in the tumor cells as compared with thei r neighbouring normal cells. This selectivity is universally recognised as the crucial, or at least one crucial factor for achieving effective chemical or physical therapy of tumors, and a factor which has hitherto not been achieved. Thus, the TAG product has demonstrated efficacy in attaching preferentially to the tumor cells, and accordingly the propert ies of a therapeutic agent. In the serum of patients with malignant tumors, as will be seen in the examples below, one type of TAG,SLOW TAG S TAG as distinguished from another type, FASTTAG F TAG , can be produced in relatively greater amounts from a given volume of serum than in patients without such tumors. This suggests that either one of the naturally occurring precursors P TAG of TAG is increased in concentration or that other factors exist which favour the relative in vitro production of S TAG over F TAG. The possible relationship of the function of the a synthese producte TARGET and TAG to their pre cursors, and in turn to functions of postulated but not demonstrated cell antigens and circulating antibodies to them which may exist in vino has yet to be elucidated. Thus, for example, in antibody like fashion,F TAG and S TAG produce single discrete lines of reaction with ASTROCYTIN in Ouchterlony gel diffusion, and the injection of TARGET into rabbits induces an increase in the yield of TAG products from rabbit serum after reacting with TARGET. The finding that there may be a normal level of a precursor resembling circulating antibody to a cell antigen which is hidden in the nondividing cell raises a question as to the possible function of the pair.It is here proposed that TAG Rre cursor P TAG and TARGET like substances exist in vivo which function in the control of cell proliferation and cell death. Thus, for example, the exposure of a cell constituent which normally is not directly exposed to serum proteins may occur during cell division. The exposure of this cell constituent may result in that constituent becoming converted to a TARGET like substance to which the attachment of a P TAG like molecule from serum may then occur, which would stimulate cell division or alternatively inhibit it. Alternatively, again, a non dividing cell which is injured or malfunction ng may expose a TARGET like substance to which the attachment of P TAG like molecules may be reparative.However, under certain cell conditions, the attachment of P TAG like molecules may induce the destruction of the cell e.g. ANTI GLlCMA TAG synthetically produced as here described is markedly cytotoxic to glioma tumor cells growing in tissue culture . This may thus represent a mirror of a normal mechanism for the control of cell division, and for either the repai i or the removal of individual cells in the body throughout the life of the organisms. If the exposure of cell constituents is abnormally increased so that abnormally large amounts of cell TARGET like substances are formed, as nay occurs in rapidly dividing cancer cells such as in brain gliomas, an increase in the concentration of one type of serumP TAG relative to another may be induced. Whatever the actual function of the precursors, the increase in the relative amount of predominantly one type of TAG,.SLOW TAG S TAG which can be produced in vitro by the methods here described from the serum of patients with malignant tumors is the basis of the serum diagnostic test described in the examples which follow. The ability according to the present invention to produce specific monoclonal species for S TAG and F TAG by means of new artificially produced cells a s herein described, has permitted the separation of certain functions of these TAG molecules, which were previously not separable because they were mixed in the polyclonal form of their production.Thus, whereas the earlier TAG products had both the properties of preferential attachment to malignant cells and the cytotoxic property wherein the malignant cell is destroyed, the presently described monoclonal forms of TAG MAMA A and MAMA B, each demonstrate preferential attachment and thus specific fluorescence with malignant cells but are not cytotoxic in contrast, a mixture of MAMA A and MAMA B produces both fluoresence and cytotoxici ty. The separation of diagnost ic and therapeutic uses is thus possible for the first time. The following examples illustrate the invention. EXAMPLE 1 Production of Crude ASTROCYTIN Precursor Containing Fraction. Human brain glioma tumor tissue, removed at s.ur gery, is dissected to be as free as possible of surface blood vessels and normal brain tissue. For a typical amount of dissected tumor tissue of 11 grams, the tissue is weighed into six 1.5 g. an d two 1.0 g. aliquots., Each Y W Q v t. mz . atc I I Each aliquot is homogenized in a neutral buffer solution by sonification or other mechanical means. For example, each aliquot is homogenized in 100 cc per g. of tissue of 0.005 M phosphate buffer solution, pH 7, in aWaring blender. Homogenization should be done in the cold to prevent denaturing of the prote ins p resent.For example, the blender should be Rrecooled in a cold room at 0 5 C and operated for only three minutes. The homogenate is then centrifuged for clarification, for example at 80,000 times gravity for 30 minutes in a refrigerated ultracentrifuge. The soluble supernatant is decanted and kept in the cold. The insoluble residue is rehomogenized with a further 10 0 cc of neutral buffer and centrifuged as before, and the second soluble extract combined with the first. Best yields are obtained when this procedure of homogenization and centrifuging is repeated until less than 50 micrograms of protein per ml.of solution are obtained in the supernate. With most tissues this is accomplished by the fifth extraction. The solutions thus obtained are combined and concentrated by perevaporation with subsequent dialysis, as by dialysis against 0.005 M phosphate buffer in the cold to produce a volume of 15 ml. The volume of this solution is noted, an aliquot is taken for total protein analysis, and the remainder is fractionated to yield the protein fraction having a pK range between I and 4. The preferred method of fractionation is chromatography as follows. The solution is frationated in the cold room 4 C on a DEAE cellulose Cellex D column 2.5 x 11.0 cm., which has been equilibrated with 0.005 M sodium phosphate buffer. Stepwise eluting solvent changes are made with the following solvents solutions Solution ì 4.04.g. NaH2PO4 and 6.50 g. Na2HPO4 are dissolve.d in 15 litres of distilled H20 0.005 molar, pH 7 Solution 2 8.57 g.NaH2PO4 are dissolved in 2480 ml. of distilled H2Q Solution 3 17.1 g. of NaH2PO4 are dissolved in 2480 ml. of distilled H20 0.05 molar, pH 4.7 Solution 4 59.65 g. of NaH2PO4 are dissolved in 2470 ml. distilled H20 0.175 molar Solution 5 101.6 g. of NaH2PO4 are dissolved in 2455 ml. distilledH20 0.3 molar, pH 4.3 Solution 6 340.2 g. ofNaH2PO4 are dissolved in 2465 ml. of distilled H20 1.0 molar, pH 4.1 Solution 7 283.64 g. of 80 phosphoric acid H3PO4 are made up in 2460 ml. of distilled H20 1.0 molar, pH 1.0 . Add nervous tissue extract, 6 to 10 ml. volume. Let it pass into column. Then, overlay with Solution I and attach a reservoir of 300 ml. of Solution I to drip by gravity onto the column. Three ml. aliquots of effluent are collected by means of an automatic fraction collector. The subsequent eluting solutions are exchanged stepwise at the following elution tube numbers. Solution 2 at tube 88, bring solution on column to top of resin, then overlay and attach reservoir of 50 ml. of Solution 2 Solution 3 at tube 98, bring solution of column to top of resin, then overlay and attach reservoir of 75 ml.of Solution 3 Solution 4 at tube 114, bring solution on column to top of resin, then overlay and attach reservoir of 150 ml. of Solution 4 Solution 5 at tube 155, bring solution on column to top of resin, then overlay and attach reservoir of 125 ml. of Solution 5 Solution 6 at tube 187, bring solution on column to top of resin, then overlay and attach reservoir of 175 ml. ofSolution 7 continue elating until, at tube 260, elution is complete. Use freshly prepared resin for every new volume of tissue extract. Each effluent tube is quantitatively analysed for protein. The eluates in the tube numbers 212 to 230 are combined, and contain the crude products from which ASTROCYTIN will be produced. While data have been published on this crude material, called fraction 10B in the past Protein Metabolism of the Nervous Ststem, pp. 555 569 Plenum Press, 1970 Journal of Neurosurgery, Vol. 33, pp. 281 286 September, 1970 , the cleavage from fraction 10B can be prepared as a product in amounts between 0.1 and 10 mg. per gm. of original fresh nervous system tissue from which it was obtained.In addition to an ASTROCYTINprecursor, it contains varying amounts of covalently bound carbo hydrate residues including a number of hexo ses, namely glucose, galatose, mannose hexosamines, in.cluding glucosamine, galatosamine and mannosamine and occasionally other sugars, such as fucose, ribose and perhaps rhamnose. It also contains large molecular weight protein products and several lipids and nucleic acids. EXAMPLE 2Production of Purified ASTROCYTIN from Crude ASTROCYTINPrecursor Containing Fraction. The ASTROCYTIN Precursor Containing fraction is further isolated from contaminants. In a preferred embodiment, the material from Example I is chromatograted on Sephadex G 50 resin with a typical column 40 cm. long, 2.5 cm. in diameter, and 196 ml. in volume. The pressure used is 40 mm. Hg. the flow rate is 35 ml. per hour, and the buffer is 0.05 molar phosphate buffer solution, pH 7.2. The first flow through peak contains ASTROCYTIN Precursor together with impurities, whereas subsequent peaks contain only impurities. In the preferred embodiment, the products in the above first flow through peak are concentrated on Sephadex G l5, and then passed onto a column of Cellex D with the same solutions, 1 to 7 , as in Example 1, and the same elution steps as are performed in Example 1. The product ASTROCYTIN is present as a sharp peak in the same tubes numbers 212 230 as before, thus maintain ing its behaviour on CelSex D chromwtograwnhy without the presence of a large number of contaminants. Low molecular weight contaminants may then be removed by techniques known to the art, such as millipore disc filtration. In the preferred method, the product ASTROCYTIN is freed of salt and other small molecular weight contaminants by filtration through Millipore Pellicon Disc No. 1000, 13 rum., which retains substances.of molecular weight greater than 1000 and permits the passage of those of molecular weight below 1000. The product ASTROCYTIN remains on the Pellicon Disc, and is recovered from it by washing with Solution I of Example 1. ASTROCYTIN is then obtained by isolating the compound having a molecular weight of 8000 from the above solution.A preferred method uses thin layer gel TLG chromatography as follows The apparatus used is the commercially available one designed by Bochringer Mannheim GmbH Pharmacia FineChemicals and CAMAG Switzerland . The resin 2.5 g. ofSephadex G 200 superfine is prepared in 85 ml. of 0.5 M.NaCI in 0.02 M Na2HPO4KH2PO4 Phosphate Buffer, pH 6.8 6.6 7.0 . Allow to swell for two or three days at room temperature with occasional gentle mixing magnetic and other stirrers should not be used . The swollen gel is stabilized for three weeks at refrigerator temperature however, bacterial and fungal growth may interfere with the swollen gel. If the gel is to be kept for longer periods of time, a small amount of bacteriostatic agent should be added sodium azide, 0.02 . 2.5 g. of dry gel are used to make two 20 x 20 cm. glass plates 0.5 mn. thick. The plates are allowed to dry at room temperature for 10 minutes and transferred to a moist chamber where they can be stored for two weeks, or they are used immediately after appropriate pre equilibration usuall y during the night for a minimum of 12 hours . The main function of o i I ihrstinn is to normalize the ratio between the stationary and modile phase volumes. With the preequilibrated plates in a horizontal position, substances to be determined are applied with micropipettes as spots or as a streak at the start line. 10 ml. to 20 ml. of 0.2 2 protein solution are placed on the edge of a microscopic cover slide 18 x 18 mm. and held against the gel surface. In a few seconds, the solution will soak into the gel. All samples are first prepared on the cover slides and then quickly applied.If not enoughmaterial is used, it is difficult to locate individual spots after separation. If too much material is applied, no defined separation occurs. The samples are diluted with buffer for easier handling and the separation of samples is carried out in a descending technique with the plate at an angle of 22 . The flow rate of 1 2 cm hour is most suitable. Marker substances such as cytochrome C, haemoglobin, myoglobin or bromophenoi Blue labelled albumin are applied at different positions across the plate to give a check on possible variations of flow across the plate and also to serve as reference proteins for the calculation of the relative distance mobility of unknowns. After the application of samples, the plates are rep laced in the apparatus and the paper wick is pushed slightly downwards to ensure good contact with the gel layer. The paper wick must not drip.Excess moisture is wiped off. The liquid solvent in the reservoir is kept constant at 1 cm. from the upper end of the vessel. The runs are usually completed in 4 to 7 hours depending on the progress of separation. With coloured substances, separation follows directly. The separated spots of protein are easily made visible by transferring them to a paper sheet replica of TLG plate after the chromatographic separation has been compl eted, and by staining them on the prewashed methanol H20 acetic acid 90 5 5, for 48 hours. The paper sheet is 3 filter paper. A sheet of paper 20 x 18 cm. is placed over the gel layer and pressed rolled just enough to ensure contact with the gel. Care is taken not to trap air under the paper replica and not to disturb the gel layer.The liquid phase is soaked off from the gel layer by the paper and removed after one minute, immediately dried in an oven at 60 C for 15 minutes and stained in the normal way with any of the routine staining procedures. Staining is performed by spraying the replica paper with 0.03 diazotized sulfanilic acid in 10 Sodium Carbonate Pauley s Reagent .Staining can also be accomplished with a saturated solution of Amido Black in Methanol Acetic Acid 90 10v v is used the staining time is 5 10 minutes. For destaining, rinse with two volumes of 90 10 methanol and acetic acid solution mixed with one volume of H20. It is difficult to obtain low background staining without very extensive washing. The plates themselves may also be dried at 600C in an oven with air circulation but only if the ASTROCYTIN is to be stained. For isolation purposes, the plate should only be air dried at room temperature. Over heating can lead to cracking, but this can usually be avoided with a 50 600 temperature which dries a Sephadex G 200 plate in 15 30 minutes.The dry plates are allowed to swell for 10 minutes in a mixture of methanol H20 acetic acid 75 20 5 and stained in a saturated Amido Black in the same solvent system for five hours and subsequently washed by bathing for two hours in the same solvent before they are dried. For molecular weight determinations, the distance from the starting line to the middle of each zone is measured with an accuracy of 0.05 mn. either directly on the print replica or on the densitogram.The. result is expressed by the R value defined as the ratio of the m migration distance of the tested pro tein d to that p of cytochrome C or myoglobin dm which is used as the roforvnep nrotein Relating migrat ion distance of tested substance to standard is the formula Rm a A straight calibration line is obtained by dm plotting the logarithm of the molecular weight of the standards used against the R values. From this line, the molecular m weight of the unknown protein can be obtained. For most exact results, mix six equal parts of the protein sample solution with standard, in this case, Cytochrome C, before applying to the plate.By the above TLG procedure, the product ASTROCYTIN is observed as a discrete spot at a distance of approximately 0.83 0.02 with reference to the standard Cytochrome C, yielding an approximate molecular weight of 8000 for ASTROCYTIN. Several discrete products are separated in this procedure ASTROCYTIN on the basis of slight differences in chemical structure and large differences in molecular weight. Thus, three products carried as contaminants to this point with molecular weights of approximately 64,000, 148,000 and 230,000 respectively, and one occas.ionally of molecular weight 32,000, have been detected and removed by the TLG methods described above.The product ASTROCYTIN is aspirated with the gel in which it is contained, in dry form, dissolved in Solution I and freed of resin by centrifuging or other similar means. The product ASTROCYTIN which has been produced at this stage is soluble in distilled water, soluble at neutral and acid pH, and insoluble at alkaline pH and has a spectrophotometric absorption peak wavelength of 280 mu. It is a polypeptide with molecular weight, as stated above, of approximately 8000. Its covalently linked aminoacids are shown by hydrolysis with 6N HCI, then quantitative automatic determination to have the following average composition of aminoacids Approximate Number of Residues Aspartic acid 9 Threonine 5 Se r I ne 6 Glutamic acid 13 Prowl ine 4 Glycine 6 Alanine 9 Vat ine 4 1 2 Cystine 2 Methionine 1 Isoleucine 2 Leucine 8 Tyrosine 2 Phenylala.nine 3 Lysine 8 Histidine 2 Arginine 4 Approximate Total 88Cysteic acid, hydroxyproline, norleucine, ammonia, isodesmosine, desmosine, hydroxylysine, lysinonorleucine and gamma aminobutyric acid are all absent in detectable amounts, but a trace of glucosamine may be present. From ill grams of the starting brain tumor tissue inExample 1, approximately 3 mg. of purified ASTROCYTIN are produced by the above methods. EXAMPLE 3Production of hALIGNIN Precursor in Artificial Cancer CellCulture. Generally, a sterile technique is scrupulously maintained. All solutions e.g. Hank s Balanced Salt BSS , F 10 Nutrient medium, foetal calf serum, trypsin solution are incubated at 35 C in a water bath for approximately 20 minutes or more before use. Cells are removed from tumor tissue and grown in vitro for many generations using a suitable medium, such crihri below. Pre rinse beakers to be used with a sterilizing solution, for example, 12 propanol plus Amphyl or creoline solution. In the preferred embodiment, the artificial cancer cells i.e., cells grown in vitro for many generations are grown in 250 ml. flasks. The liquid medium in which the cells are growing. is discharged into the pre rinsed beakers. The cells are then washed gently with 5 10 ml. of Hank s BSS or other similar solution for 30 seconds. Avoid agi tation. All walls and surfaces are washed. The solution is clarified of cells by centrifug ins in the cold from 10 minutes at 3,000 rpm. The medium is poured into a beaker as above. Add a small amount of buffered proteinase enzyme solution and rinse quickly to avoid digestion of the cells. In the preferred method, 1 2 ml. of trypsin solution EDTA are added and rinsed for only 10 seconds. Pour off the trypsin solution. Add a similar volume of fresh trypsin solution and incubate until the cells are seen to be separated from the walls of the chamber through microscopic observation.This usually requires 5 10 minutes. Add a suitable growth medium, such as 50 ml. of a solution of 7 10 percent solution of foetal calf serum in 100 ml. of F 10Nutrient medium. Twenty five ml. of the fresh medium with cells are transferred to a new growth chamber for propagation and the remaining 25 ml. are kept in the first chamber for propagation. Both chambers are placed in an incubator at 350C for approximately seven days. By the procedure of this Example to this point, an artificial cancer cell culture is divided into two fresh cultures approximately every seven days. This entire procedure may be repeated as often as desired, at approximately seven day intervals, for each growth chamber. Thus, the number of cells growing in vitro may be approximate ly doubled every seven days. The cue moB he extracted for the production of MALIGNIN after approximately seven days of growth.For example, cells growing in each 250 ml. growt h chamber as described above may be recovered as follows The medium is transferred to a centrifuge tube and centrifuged at 3,000 rpm in the cold for 10 minutes. The medium is discarded. The cells remaining in the growth chamber are scraped from the chamber walls and washed into the centrifuge tubes with neutral buffer solution.The cells are washed twice with neutral buffer solution and centrifuged again at 3,000 rpm in the cold, and the medium is discarded. The washed cells a re suspended in 10 ml. of neutral phosphate buffer until ready for extraction of the crude MALIGNIN Precursor Containing fraction.EXAMPLE 4Production of Crude MALIGNIN Precursor Containing Fraction. Washed cells suspended in neutral buffer fromExample 3 are mechanically disrupted under conditions which avoid the denaturing of most proteins. In the preferred method, the washed cells are treated in the cold with a sonifier for 20 seconds. After sonification, the cell residues are centrifuged at 30,000 rpm for 30 minutes and the supernatant is decanted. Ten ml. aliquots of buffer solution are used to wash remaining cells from the chamber and these are added to the remaining cell residues. Sonify and centrifuge as above and combine the supernatants. Repeat the process once more. The combined supernatant is perevaporated to reduce the approximate 30 ml. volume to 6 7 ml. An aliquot is taken for total protein analysis and the remainder is fractionated according to the methods ofExample í for ASTROCYTIN Precursor.EXAMPLE 5Production of Purified MALIGNIN Product from Crude WAAT T N ntaininÇ Fraction. The product MALIGNIN is further isolated from contaminants by the methods of Example 2 for ASTROCYTIN. In the TLG step of the preferred embodiment, the product MALIGNIN is observed at a discrete spot at a distance of approximately 0.91 0.02 with reference to the standard cytochrome C, yielding an approximate molecular weight of 10,000 for MALIGNIN. The product MALIGNIN wbich has been produced at this stage is soluble in distil led water, soluble at neutral or acid pH, and insoluble at alkaline pH and has a spectrophotometric absorption peak of 280 m . It is a polypeptide with a molecular weight of approximately 10,000.Its covalently linked aminoacids are shown by hydrolysis with 6N HCl then quantitative determination to have the following average composition of aminoacids Approximate Number of Residues Aspartic Acid 9 Threon i ne 5 Seine 5 Glutamic Acid 13 Prowl ine 4 Glycine Alanine 7 Vat ine 6 1 2 Cystine Methionine 2 Isoleucine 4 Leuc i ne 8 Tyros ine 3 Phenylalanine 3 Lysine 6 Histidine 2 Arginine 5 Approximate Total 89 the aminoacids cysteic acid, hydroxyproline, norleucine, ammonia, isodesmosine, desmosine, hydroxylysine, Iysinonorleucine and gamma aminobutyric acid being absent in detectable amounts. A typical yield of pure MALIGNIN from twelve 250 ml. reaction chambers of Example 3 together is approximately A mg. of MALIGNIN. EXAMPLE 6 Hydrolytic Cleavage of RECOGNINS. A solution of RECOGNIN, in this case eitherAstrocytin or Malignin at pH between 1 and 2 is allowed to stand in the cold. After 7 to 14 days, TLG chromatography shows the product to have been reduced in molecular weight by approximately 200. When the solution is allowed to stand longer, further units of approximately 200 molecular weight are cleaved every 7 to 10 days.Thus, with Astrocytin the molecular weight is reduced from 8,000, and with MALIGNIN the molecular weight is reduced from 10,000 in each case by units of approximately 200 sequentially. The physicochemical specificities of ASTROCYTIN are retained by each product down to approximately 4,000 molecular weight. The physicochemical specificities of Mal ignin are retained by each product down to approximately 5,000 molecular weight. This is shown byOuchterlony gel diffusion tests against Anti Astrocytin and Anti Malignin, respectively. This cleavage can also be accomplished enzymatically, as with trypsin and other proteinases, with similar results. Th molecular weights of these compounds prepared by hydrolytic cleavage of RECOGNINS may be approximately defined by the following formulae For products having the physicochemical specificities of Astrocytin 4000 200x Y For products having the physicochemical specificities of Malignin 5000 200x Y wherein Y is the molecular weight of the product and X is 0 or an integer from 1 to 19.EXAMPLE 7Production of Artificial Tissue or Organ with RECOGNINS. A rigid walled tube of plastic, metal, or other suitable rigid material is dipped in or impregnated with a highly concentrated i.e.,fl0 mg ml. viscous solution of RECOGNIN, in this case either Astrocytin or Malignin, until all surfaces are fully coated with the RECOGNIN.Alternately, RECOGNIN solution is passed through and around the tube under pressure until all surfaces are fully coated. The tube is then dried in air or in vacuo, or lyophilized. The process of coating is repeated several times in order to build up multiple molecular layers of RECOGNIN coating. The tube is now ready to be placed in a cavity or in a tissue which contains Astrocytin or Malignin like precursors in the neighbouring tissue or fluid of a living mammal. This artificial tissue or organ may be used to minimize or to eliminate reactions which foreign substances without the RECOGNIN coating would incite. Artificial tissues or organs of other geometries may similarly be produced.EXAMPLE 8Production of TARGET reagents from RECOGNINS. ASTROCYTIN, prepared as in Example 2 above, orMALIGNIN, prepared as in Example 5 above, is complexed with a carrier to produce a TARGET reagent. In the preferred embodiment, ASTROCYTIN or MALIGNIN is dissolved in 0.15 M. NaH2PO4 citrate buffer, pH 4.0. A bromoacetyl resin, for example bromoacetylcellulose BAC having 1.0 to 1.5 milliequivalents Br per gram of cellulose, stored in the cold, is prepared in 0.15 M NaH2PO4 buffer, pH 7.2. Convert the bluffer to pH 4 by pouring off the pH 7.2 buffer solution and adding 0.15 M NaH2PO4 citrate buffer, pH 4.0. The ASTROCYTIN or MALIGNIN solution and the BAC solution are stirred together 10 1 BAC to RECOGNIN ratio for 30 hours at room temperature, and then centrifuged. It is preferred that all sites on the BAC which are available to bind to RECOGNIN be bound. This may be accomplished as follows. The supernatant from the immediately preceding.step is lyophilized and the protein content determined to indicate the amount of ASTROCYTIN or MALIGNIN not yet complexed to BAC. The complexed BACASTROCYTIN or BAC MALIGNIN is resuspended in 0.1 M bicarbonate buffer pH 8.9 and stirred 24 hours at 4 C to permit the formation of chemical bonds between the BAC and the ASTRCCYTIN or MALIGNIN. After. the 24 hours, the suspension is centrifuged and the supernatant is analysed for protein. The complexed BAC ASTROCYTIN or BAC MALIGNIN is now resuspended in 0.05 M aminoethanol 0.1 M bicarbonate buffer, pH 8.9 in order to block any unreacted bromine.The suspension is centrifuged, and the supernatant is kept but not analysed because of the presence of aminoethanol. Removal of all unbound ASTROCYTIN orMALIGNIN is then accomplished by centrifuging and re suspension for three washings in 0.15 M NaCI until no absorbence is measured on the spectrophotometer at 266 mu. The BAC ASTRCCYTIN or BAC MALIGNIN complex is now stirred in 8 M urea for 2 hours at 38 C, centrifuged, then washed three times usually suffices with 8 M urea until no absorbence is shown in the washings at 266 mu. The complex is washed twice with 0.15 M NaCI to rid it of urea. The complex is then stirred at 37 C in 0.25 M acetic acid for 2 hours to demonstrate its stability. Centrifug e and read supernatant at 266 m no absorbence should be present.This chemically compfexed BAC ASTROCYTIN orBAC MALIGNIN is therefore stable and can now be used as a reagent in the methods described below in this stable reagent form, is is , .rred to as .T.ss9 ct TOPOGRAPHIC ANTIGEN LIKE REAGENT TEMPLATE because it is a synthetically produced complex whose physical and chemical properties mimic the stable cell bound precursor of ASTROCYTIN or MALIGNIN when it is in a potential reactive state with serum components. For storing, TARGET reagent is centrifuged and washed until neutralized with 0.15 M NaH2PO4 bluffer, pH 7.2. TARGET reagents may be prepared from bromoacetyl liganded carriers other than cellulose, such as bromoacetyla.ted resins or even filter paper.EXAMPLE 9Production of, antisera to Astrocytin, Malignin and TARGET. Antisera to Astrocytin, Malignin or TARGET r eagents may be produced by inducing an antibody response to them in a mammal. The following procedure has been found to be satisfactory. One mg. of RECOGNIN Astrocytin or Malignin is injected into the toe pads of white male rabbits with standard Freund s adjuvant, and then the same injection is made intraperitoneally one week later, again intraperitoneally ten days and, if necessary, three weeks later. Specific antibodies may be detected in the blood serum of these rabbits as early as one week to ten days after the first injection. The same procedure is followed for TARGET antigen by injecting that amount of TARGET which contains l mg. of Astrocytin or Malignin as determined by a Folin Lowry determination of protein. The specific antibody to Astrocytin is namedAnti Astrocytin. The specific antibody to Malignin is named Anti Malignin. Similarly, the specific antibody to TARGET reagent is named Anti Target. These antibodies show clearly on standardOuchterlony gel diffusion tests for antigen antibody reactions with specific single sharp reaction lines produced with their specific antigen. The presence of specific antibodies in serum can also be tested by the standard quantitative precipitin test for antigen antibody reactions. Good quant itative precipi tin curves are obtained and the micrograms of specific antibody can be calculated therefrom. Further evidence of the presence of specific antibodies in serum can be obtained by absorption of the specific antibody Anti Astrocytin onto Bromoacetylcellulose Astrocytin BAC Astracytin prepared above.The antiserum containing specific Anti Astrocytin can be reacted with BAC Astrocytin. When. the serum is passed over BAC Astrocytin only, the specific antibodies to Astrocytin bind to their specific antigen Astrocytiti. Since Astrocytin is covalently bound to Bromoacetylcellulose, the specific antibody, Anti Astrocytin, is now bound to BAC Astrocytin to produce BAC AstrocytinAnti Astrocytin BACA Anti Astrocytin . This is p.roved by testing the remainder of the serum which is washed free from BAC Astrocytin. On standard Ouchterlony diffusion no antibod.ies now remain in the serum which will react with Astrocytin. It is there fore concluded that all specific antibodies Anti Astrocytin previously. shown to be present in the serum, have been absorbed toBAC Astrocytin. Furthermore, when Anti Astrocytin is releaed from its binding to BAC Astrocytin, it is thereby isolated free of all contaminating antibodie s. This release of Anti Astrocytin may be accomplished by washing the BACA Anti Astrocytin complex with 0.25 M acetic acid 4 C., 2 hrs. which has been shown above not to break the BAC Astrocytin bond. Still further evidence of the presence of specific antibodies in serum can be obtained by adsorption of the specific antibody Anti Malignin onto Bromoacetylcellulose Malignin BAC Malignin prepared above. The antiserum containing specific Anti Malignin can be reacted with BAC Malignin. When the serum is passed over BAC Malignin, only the specific antibodies toMalignin bind to tneir specific antigen Maiignin. iir,e Malignin is covalently bound to Bromoacetyl cellulose, the speci fic antibody, Anti Malignin, is now bound toBAC Malignin to produce BAC Malignin Anti Malignin BACM Anti Mali in . This is proved by testing the remainder of the serum which is washed free from BACMalignin. On standard Ouchterlony diffusion no antibodies now remain in the serum which will react withMalignin.It is therefore concluded that all specific antibodies Anti Malignin previously shown to be present in the serum, have been absorbed to BAC Malignin.Furt hermore, when Anti Malignin is released from its binding to BAC Malignin, it is thereby isolated free of all contaminating antibodies. This release of AntiMalignin may be accomplished by washing the BACM AntiMalignin complex with 0.25 M acetic acid 40C., 2 hrs. , which has been shown above not to break the BAC Malignin bond. The antibodies to TARGET show clearly on standard Ouchterlony gel diffusion tests for antigen antibody reactions with specific single reaction lines produced with TARGET which show a line of identity with the line of reaction to ANTI ASTROCYTIN or ANTI MALIGNIN antisera i.e., that produced to the injection of ASTROCYTIN orMALIGNIN themselves . Some rabbits, it has been noted, have levels of ANTI TARGET in their blood prior to being injected with TARGET. These ANTI TARGET substances, when reacted specifically with TARGET reagent as described below in tests of human sera, lead tithe production of approximately equivalent. amounts of the two types of TAG, S TAG and F TAG see later Examples .EXAMPLE 10Detection of Malignant Tumors, by Quantitative Production in vitro of TARGET ATTACHING GLOBULINS TAG fromBiological Fluids. TARGET reagent prepared in accordance withExample 8 is washed to remove any unbound RECOGNIN which may be present due to deterioration. The following procedure is satisfactory. TARGET reagent is stirred with acetic acid for two hours at 370C, centri fuged, the supernatant decanted, and the optical density of the supernatant read at 266 mu. If there is any absorbence, this wash is repeated until no further material is solubilized. The TARGET is sthen resuspended in phosphate buffered saline, pH 7.2. standard S TAG and FTAG purified from previous reactions of human serum by the procedure described below can be used if available, as reference standards to test the TARGET reagent, as can whole rabbit serum which has been determined to containS TAG and F TAG by other TARGET preparations . The Slow Binding S TAG determination is performed as follows Frozen serum stored for more than a few days should not be used. Serum is carefully prepared from freshly obtained whole blood or other body fluid by standard procedures in the art. The following procedure has been found to be satisfactory. Blood is allowed to clot by standing for 2 hours at room temperature in a glass test tube. The clots are separated from the walls with a glass stirring rod, and the blood is allowed to stand at 40C for a minimum of 2 hours or overnight .The clots are separated from the serum by centrifuging at 20,000 rpm at 4 C for 45 minutes. The serum is decanted into a centrifuge tube and centrifuged again at 2000 rpm at 40C for 45 minutes. The serum is decanted and an 1 Solution of Methiolate lug. in 95 ml. water and 5 ml. 0.2 M bicarbonate buffer pH 10 is added to the extent of 1 of the volume of serum. Serum samples, prepared by the above or other procedures, of 0.2 ml each are added to each of 0.20 ml.aliquots of TARGET suspension reagent containing 100200 micrograms of RECOGNIN per 0.20 ml. of TARGET re agent, in duplicate determination. The suspension is mixed at 40C in such a manner as to avoid peilet Torm ation. For example, a small rubber cap rapid shaken may be used for I 2 seconds and then, with the tubes slightly slanted, they may be shaken in a Thomas shaker for 2 hours or more. The TARGET reagent and prote in bound to it are separated from the serum. One of the procedures which has been found to be satisfactory is the following.The tubes are centrifuged at 2000 rpm for 20 minutes at 4 C, the supernatant is decanted, the pellet which is formed by centrifuging is washed 3 times by remixing and shaking at room temperature with 0.2 0.3 ml. of 0.15 M Saline, and centrifuged and the supernatants are discarded. The protein which remains attached to the TARGET is cleaved therefrom and quantitatively determined. For example, 0.2 ml. of 0.25 M acetic acid is added, the suspension is shaken for i to 2 seconds with a rubber cap shaker, and then in a Thomas shaker for 2 hours in a 370C incubator. The tubes are centrifuged at 2000 rpm at 4 C for 30 minutes. The supernatant is carefully decanted to avoid transferring particles and the optical density of the supernatant is read at 280 mu. The value of the optical density is divided by a factor of 1.46 for results in micrograms per ml. of serum protein S TAG .Duplicate determinations should not vary by more than 5 .Any other procedure effective for determining protein content may be used, such as Folin Lowry determination, but standards must be specified to determine the range of control and tumor values of S TAG and F TAG concent ration. The Fast Binding F TAG determination is performed as follows Frozen serum stored for more than a few days should not be used. Serum is carefully prepared from freshly obtained whole blood or other body fluid by standard procedures in the art. The procedure given above in this Example for serum preparation is satisfactory. Serum samples, prepared by the above or other procedures are allowed to stand at 40C for 10 minutes less than the total time the S TAG serum determinati ons were allowed to be in contact with TARGET reagent above e.g., 1 hour 50 minutes if a two hour S TAG determination was made . This procedure equilibrates the temperature histories of S TAG and F TAG determinations. Add 0.2 ml. samples of the temperature equil ibrated serum to each of 0.20 ml. aliquots of TARGET suspension reagent containing 1g0 200 micrograms ofRECOGNIN per 0.20 ml. TARGET reagent, in dupiicate deter mination. The suspension is then mixed at 40C for approximately 19 minutes in such a manner as to avoid pellet formation. For example, a small rubber cap rapid shaker may be used for I 2 seconds and then, with the tubes slightly slanted, they may be shaken in a Thomas shaker for approximately 10 minutes. The TARGET reagent and protein bound to it are separated from the serum.One of the procedures which has been found to be satis factory is the following. The tubes are centrifuged at 2000 rpm for 20 minutes at 40C, the supernatant is decanted, the pellet which is formed by centrifuging is washed 3 times by remixing and shaking at room temperature with 0.2 0.3 ml. of 0.15 M Saline and centrifuged, and the supernatants are discarded. The protein which remains attached to the TARGET is cleaved therefrom and quantitatively determined. The procedure described above in this Example for determiningS TAG concentration is satisfactory. Any other procedure effective for determining protein content may be used, such as Folin Lowry determination, but standards must be specified to determine the range of control and tumor values of S TAG minus F TAG concentration. The final results are expressed as TAG micrograms per ml. of Serum, and equal S TAG minus F TAG.TAG values in non brain tumor patients and other controls currently range from zero or a negative number to 1 40 micrograms per ml. of serum. TAG values in the first patients studied , brain tumor patients, ranged from 141 to 500 micrograms per ml. of serum. In the first blind study of 50 blood samples conducted according to the procedures of this Example utilizing TARGET reagent prepared from Astrocytin and bromoacetylcellulose, Ii out of 11 brain tumors and 28 out of 32 normals were correctly identified. One of the 4 supposed normals i.e., nonbrain tumor controls turned out to have a cancer of the thyroid gland which had apparently been successfully treated some years before. The three remaining normals were individuals aged 60 70 who were in poor health, possibly having nondiagnosed cancer. Of the remaining 7 samples, th ree out of three cases of Hodgkin s Disease were correctly identified one sample in the tumor range 141 500 ug. TAG ml. corresponded to patients having respectively, an intracranial mass diagnosis uncertain but non tumor, and osteosarcoma non brain tumor and a melanotic sarcoma non brain tumor . Subsequent blind studies conducted according to the procedures of this example utilizing TARGET reagent prepared from MALIGNIN and bromoacetylcellulose correctly identified three out of three malignant brain tumors and all normals, then were continued as detailed in Example l0A which follows. EXANIPLE 10A Determination of Anti Malignin Antibody in 1,026 CancerPatients and Controls AWSeven Year Nine Hospital Blind Study. The antibody to malignin, a cancer cell 10,000Dalton polypeptide of known composition, was quantitatively determined blind by specific immunoadsorption in 1,094 serum specimens from 1,026 cancer patients and controls. The concentration of anti mal ignin antibody, known to be cytotoxic to cancer cells in vitro, was elevated in 92.7 of sera from pat ients with clinically and pathologically active cancer mean 273.7 156.5 micrograms ml compared with healthy normal subjects mean 59.1 27.0 micrograms ml in a broad range of types of malignancy in support of the hypothesis that malignin is a general transformation antigen.The antibody was in the normal range 0 134 micrograms ml in 100 of sera of healthy normal subjects first control group , in 94.6 of sera of out patient hospital noncancer controls mean 64.3 46.3 micrograms ml second control group and in 91.2 of sera of in patient medicalsurgical disorder non cancer patients mean 81.2 67.3 micrograms ml third control group . That only an active cancer state appears to be associated with elevated antibody levels is supported by the finding that the antibody was in the normal range in 94.2 of sera from cancer patients who had been successfully treated and clinicopathologically showed no evidence of disease at the time of the determination fourth control group mean 70.J 36.7 micrograms ml .None of the four control groups was statistically significantly different from any one other, but each control group differed from the active cancer group at a level of P 0.000001. Of the 109 cancer patients who had antibody levels below 135 micrograms mi, 90 83.3 were dead within one year mean 4.4 3.5 months . Of the 76 active cancer patients who could be followed and who were still alive beyond one year and up to 46 months mean 22.0 8 months after the antibody determination, 68 89.5 had had antibody levels above 135 micrograms ml. The relationship of the concentration of anti malignin antibody to survival suggested by these data as well as some diagnostic and therapeutic implications are noted. A general transformation antigen is one which rmion to the, orocess of malignant transformation rather than to the particular cell type involved. The general antigen therefore differs from cell specific tumor markers which are related to the products of the particular type of qell transformed, as in the case of insulin or thyroid hormone excesses produced by pancreatic or thyroid neoplasms, respectively 7 .Malignin, a 10,000 daltdn polypeptide from malignant glial cells, with a high content of glutamic acid and aspartic acid and a high ratio of these two aminoacids to histidine, reported in 1975 1 3 , and its close structural relatives astrocytin, recognin L lymphoma and recogninM mammary carcinoma 2,4 are members of what appears to be the first chemically and immunologically defined family of general transformation antigens. These antigens, or anti malignin antibodies which react with each other have been determined in the cells and sera of patients with a variety of neoplasms, in induced malignant transformations in animals and in the cells and supernates of malignant cells growing in tissue culture 5 7,12 .Other transformation antigens, not quite as general but broad in representation, are now being identified in other laboratories in experimental cell transformations induced by chemical and viral means 8,9 . Over the past seven years, we have examined the possible relationship of malignin and anti malignin antibody to human cancer states. Previous tumor associated antigens studied in humans, such as the carcinoembryonic antigens 10 have exhibited varying demonstrability in different types of cancer and low concordance with clinical diagnoses. Perhaps due to the fact that none has had a constant chemically defined composition or mode of production, the inconstantly released mixtures of antigens rather than a potentially more constant level of specific antibody have had to be measured in serum. Malignin is produced in constant tissue culture of malignant cells, is of known and reproducible composition, and its antibody has been demonstrated to be present in, and isolated from, the serum of patients with cancer 6,7 .The antibody and antigen studies reported here support the apparently ubiquitous distribution of themalignant antigen or its very close structural relatives in active cancer of all types examined.METHODSPatients and Controls a Serum Anti Malj I i Anti b o Studies Cancer patients were chosen by the clinical investigators at each of nine hospitals from various types of cancer in the approximate frequency of their rate of occurrence in their population or of the invest igator s particular interest see Table 1 . Untreated as well as treated cases were accepted. Of the result ing 500 cancer sera studied, 247 49,4 were from patients who had clinically and pathologically defined and success fully treated cancer up to 15 years earlier and had no clinical or pathological evidence of disease at the time the antibody was determined fourth control group, below . Of the active cancer group, 76 patients could be followed who were still alive beyond one year and up to 46 months. Four control groups were studied 59 healthy normals 60 sera 2 56 hospital out patients with some symptoms but without definite clinical diagnosis 56 sera 3 258 hospital in patients with definite medical surgical diagnoses 261 sera and 4 the 86 cancer patients referred to above who had no evidence of disease at the time of the determination . The medical surgical diagnoses in the third control group included bacterial infections 26 sera , viral infections 28 sera , trauma 8 sera , cardiovascular disorders 30 sera , gastrointestinal and hematopoietic disorders 39 sera , thoracic disorders 6 sera , obstetrica.l and gynaecological disorders 7 se. ,C., e e I l e n end metabolic and arthritic disorders 22 sera , neurologic disorders 62 sera , psychiatric disorders 6 sera , and skin disorders 16 sera . In addition to the above randomly collected sera, selective blind studies have been initiated but not completed on several specific groups 45 patients with multiple sclerosis 49 sera and 57 with benign tumors 74 sera , as well as on 31 blood relatives relatives of cancer patients 31 s era , on people in contact with cancer patients, that is, 54 nonblood relatives and hospital staff contacts 63 sera . 84 of the sera came from the Medical College of Ohio atToledo.b Immunochemical Methods Serum anti malignin antibody was quantitatively determined by an imnunoabsorption method previously described in which the serum antibody is specifically adsorbed on to immobilized malignin Target reagent in a 2 hour slow and a 10 minute fast reaction, then released in soluble form and read by optical density at 280 millimicrons as micrograms of antibody protein 11 .The values of anti malignin antibody are expressed as netTarget attaching globulins Net TAG calculated 2hour imnunoadsorption Slow S TAG less the 10 Minute immunoadsorption Fast F TAG. All values given repres ent Net TAG unless otherwise noted. The Net TAG does not appropriately reflect the antibody elevation when the FTAG is markedly elevated to between 270 and 1100 micrograms ml. In these instances, seen rarely in the four control groups 2 of 464 sera, 0.4 , but in 58 of 247 active cancer sera 23.5 , the S TAG values are also elevated to above 400 and as much as 12,00 micrograms ml. In the accompanying figures, to distinguish these cases of extraordinary increase in both forms of antibody, rather than adding the values for the two forms, only the S TAG has been plotted as open circles.These cases have been examined statistically in two ways, separately, and as part of the clinically determined active cancer group. The antibody determinations were performed blind on coded specimens of sera by laboratory personnel who were in a different enter from that in which the specimens were collected.c Correlation of Clinical and LaboratorX Data Correlations were made for each patient after completion and recording of both clinical and laboratory data separately. The error for these correlations in terminal cases is likely to be very small since it involved pathologically confirmed cancer and two reliable dates the date of the antibody determination and the date of death. For each of 206 of the 247 active cancer cases, in addition to the absence of their names from the tumor registry of deaths, it was possible to verify by contacting each patient or their physician that the patient was still alive at the end of one year. For 41 of these cases, the contact verification either was not possible or possible only to the tenth month.Since most of these 41 cases were from the first two years of the study, when clinically terminal patients were actively excluded from the study, this is not likely to represent an appreciable error. At most, the number in the active cancer group would be reduced and the number in the terminal group increased, each by 41, neither of which would significantly influence the conclusions reached except for the value of the mean for the antibody in the terminal group which would be increased. In the statistical comparison of the groups, values of P 0.01 were considered statistically significant. The only comparison of those found not significant under these criteria which approached but did not quite reach the 0.05 level was between the first two control groups Figure 1 .RESULTS Figure 1 of the accompanying drawings shows the concentration of anti malignin antibody, in micro grams ml serum in individual sera, in the four control groups and the active cancer group that is 1 healthy normals, 2 cancer patients showing no evidence of disease after successful treatment, 3 out patients noncancer with medical surgical symptoms but without defined disorders, 4 in patients non cancer with defined medical surgical disorders, and, 5 patients with active cancer who lived one year or longer. While the four control groups did not differ from each other at a stat istically significant level, each differed from the active cancer group at the significant level of P 0.000001. Figure 2A of the drawings shows the concentrat ion of anti malignin antibody in individual sera of patients with terminal cancer, that is, those who died within one year mean 4.4 3.5 months . The concentrat ion of antibody in this group differs statistically from the active cancer group at a level of P 0.000001.Together with the data shown in Figure 1, it may be seen that 90 out of 108 cancer patients 83.3 who had antibody levels below 135 micrograms ml died within one year. In contrast, of the 76 active cancer patients who were longer te.rm survivors and xvho could be followed, 13 to 46 months mean 22.3 8 after the antibody determination, 68 89.5 had had elevated antibody levels.Figure 2B of the drawings shows seven examples of the decrease before death observed in individual patients serum anti malignin antibody levels when determined serially. Table 1 shows the types of cancer patient studied, and the distribution of samples between active disease, terminal disease and no. evidence of disease in each type of cancer. The distribution of type of cancer is fairly typical with the exception of an excess number of brain cancer cases which was the initial focus of interest of the study. In the beginning biind study ir each of the nonrandom preselected groups, the antibody level was elevated in the sera of 20.4 of patients with multiple sclerosis, 31.1 of patients with benign tumors, 30.2 of contacts of active cancer patients, and 38.7 of blood relatives of active cancer patients. EXAMPLE l0A TABLE I DISTRIBUTION OF NUMBER OF SERUM ANTI MALIGNIN ANTIBODY DETERMINATION ACCORDING TO TYPE OF MALIGNANCY AND CLINICAL STATUS TOTAL NUMBER CLINICAL STATUS Active No EvidenceType of Malignancy Disease Disease TerminalCarcinoma of Lung 38 11 1 26Larynx 3 2 1Breast 67 26 27 14Uterus 5 1 1 3Cervix 6 3 3Ovary 11 3 3 5Vulva I I Colon 37 18 3 16Rectum 13 9 2 2 Stolnach 2 1 1 Oesophagus 3 1 2Bile Duct I IProstate 13 7 4 2Bladder 12 5 4 3Urethra 1 I Kidney 15 6 5 4Testis 7 1 5 1 Thyroid 4 4Pancreas 4 4Adrenal 1 1 Skin 5 1 3 Undifferentiated 14 9 5Hodgkins Disease 14 8 3 3Lymphoma 25 I 5 9 I Multiple Myeloma 15 10 2 3Acute Myelogenous Leukemia 3 2 I Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia I I Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia 8 7 1Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia 8 4 2 2Fibrosarcoma 1 I Mejanotic Sarcoma 15 8 4 1Osteogenic Sarcoma 6 1 1 4Rhabdomyosarcoma 4 1 3Liposarcoma I I Hemangioblastoma I I Histiocytoma I I Brain Cancer 133 80 2 51Retinoblastoma I I 500 247 86 167Legend for Figure 1 Concentration of anti malignin antibodyEXAMPLE 10A in four control groups and in active cancer patients. Solid circles, Net TAG open circles, S TAG F TAG excess . See Methods for details. Legend for Figure 2 Reiation of level of anti malignin EXAMPLE 10A antibody to terminal clinical state. Solid.circles, Net TAG Open circles, S TAG F TAG excess . See Methods for details. A. Single blind determination in individual patients. B. Longitudinal blind determination on seven individual cancer patients 1 to 7 whose death D occurred s to 4 n,onr s from date Last specirn2n determined.DISCUSSION The data obtained in this blind study are consistent with the previous evidence that malignin is a general transformation antigen. Thus, rather than being restricted to particular cell types, anti maligninantibod.y was elevated significantly above normal levels, and malignin was visualized in cells, in patients with a broad variety of active cancer Tablel and Methods b. That the antibody was in the normal range in 94.2 of patients who had been successfully treated and at the time of the antibody determination showed no evidence of disease, suggests that an active cancer state is required to maintain elevated antibody levels. in the separation of healthy normal subjects from active cancer patients by determination of anti malignin antibody, all healthy normals had values below 135 mean 59.1 27.0 micrograms ml and there were no false posi.tives , while in the active cancer group, 92.7 showed elevated values of antibody mean 273.7 156.5 micrograms ml . The healthy normal and the active cancer groups differed at a level of P 90.000001 for the whole active cancer group, as well as for each of the two subgroups shown in Figure 1. As medically ill subjects are brought into the comparison Figure 1 , the mean levels of concentration of antibody are seen to shift slightly but not signif icantly upwards. In the out patient non cancer group, 94.6S were still in the normal range, and 5.4 were in the elevated range. In the in patient, more clearly ill, positively diagnosed but apparently non cancer medical surgical group, 91.2 were still in the normal range, and 8.8 were in the elevated range. These two control groups were not statistically significantly different from the healthy normal control group but each differed from the active cancer group at a level of P 0.000001.It might be expected that, compared with healthv normals, the incidence of cancer would be greater in medically ill patients and that some of these cancer cases might not yet be clinically diagnosable. How many of these presumptive false positives actually represent occult cancer not yet clinically detected cannot be predicted, but it is relevant to note that six additional false positives were found from one to 19 months later actually to have clinically and pathologically proven cancer. The data in the preselected groups, although blind, were not randomly collected as were those in Figures 1 and 2 and therefore cannot be pooled with them. Each of these preselected groups is considered too small to form conclusions because of heterogeneity of each and the complexity of the implications raised by the data, but they are included as preliminary data for the sake of completeness, There is a possibility that, in the destructive and immune reactions in the nervous system in multiple sclerosis, a higher false positive rate may occur. Some of this may represent misdiagnosed central nervous system malignancy. Sera from patients with benign tumors might be expected to show a higher false positive rate consistent with the borderline area in clinico pathological diagnosis between benign and malignant growths.Anti malignin antibody levels and the demonstration of malignin in cells may in the future help to clarify the definition in this group. The observation of a higher incidence of elevated antimalignin antibody in contacts of active cancer patients compared with healthy normals P 0.001 is in agreement witch several previously published studies on other tumor indexes demonstrating the same curious phenomenon 14 clinical studies and one laboratory study cited in reference 14 . Whether this represents some form of immunization against a transmittable agent, either the malignin antigen itself or a substance which induces transformation and rirci r l upHe nce s f f the antigen, needs more work to clarify. Finally, the greatest incidence of antibody elevation in a non cancer group is observed in the blood relatives of active cancer patients.Whether this represents a response to actual cell transformation, a genetically determined high level of production of the antibody for immunosurveil lance, or the same phendmenon as that observed in the contacts group is unknown. Since the relatives are statistically different from the healthy normal control group at a level of P 0.000001, some explanation will have to be sought and certainly much larger groups will have to be examined. The utility of the malignin antigen and the antibody for general screening of populations for cancer is suggested by the low false positive rates shown inFigure 1 in the healthy normal and out patient control groups. The results of the present studies also indicate, within the limitations of all laboratory procedures, that both the determination in cells of malignin and in serum of its antibody may be useful in helping to recognise the presence of malignant states in individuals in whom cancer is suspected. In addition, the clinical follow up of individual patients over months and years has permitted the comparison of clinical outcome with antibody levels which were obtained on blind coded serum specimens. The correlation observed suggests that the anti malignin antibody level may be related to survival in that the elevated values during active disease were associated with longer survival and low levels during active disease with early death After successful treatment, however, the presence of normal low antibody levels may be an aid in determining whether an active cancer state has been replaced by one in which there is no evidence of disease . Once again, the laboratory value can have relevance on ly in relation to the clinical status, and it usually should not b e difficult o separare t dlly X healthy from the chimically terminal patient,. both of whom have low levels of anti body, but for different reasons. The significance of the correlation of lower levels of anti malignin antibody with terminal illness shown in Figures 2A and 2B is not known. Since as seen in Figure 2B, the drop in antibody can occur abruptly, in as little as one month before death, it is not known how many of the elevated values shown in Figure 2A were followed by a similar drop prior to death. The drop may therefore be even more common than is observed in the single determinations. The phenomenon is in accord with previous demonstrations by others of the general decrease in immunocompetence observed to signal oncoming death in the case of both human and animal cancer 15 , and may simply represent a secondary consequence of the terminal state.However, since anti malignin antibody is specific for a cancer cell antigen, localized prefer entially in malignant cells in vitro and in vivo, and has been shown to be cytotoxic to malignant cells in vitro 7 , the drop in antibody might be more central to the cancer process and be to the detriment of the patient. In addition, earlier data 6 showed antimalignin anti body in human cancer sera to be largely disarmed , with its Fc portion cleaved irom the Fab fragments, which would result in loss of cytotoxi city. This process might reflect one form of the cancer cell s defence against the antibody. The low levels of antibody observed here prior to death may be evidence of a second form of the cancer cell s defence, the result of an increasing blockade of antibody production or release due to antigen excess as the tumor proliferates. That malignin is not an onco fetal antigen is supported by the absence of malignin from fetal tissues.Malignin appears to be much older phylogenetically than those states co, m,only h.ougWt sf as being recapitulated during fetal de velopment its only structural relatives, by computer search 16 , are the ferredoxins of plants, lucaena glauca and alfalfa, the acyl carrier protein of E. coli, and cytochrome b5. These four share the property of being anaerobic enzymes, the ferredoxins being the most electro negative oxidation reduction enzymes in nature. Warburg observed the anaerobic advantage of malignant cells but was unable to account for this property in the activity of the then known anaerobic enzymes 17 .The possibility that malignin is a cleaved der ivative of such an anaerobic enzyme system, that this system is comnon to all malignancies regardless of cell type, and that this system imparts an unique anaerobic advantage to cancer cells, would be consistent with the demonstrated increase in the yield of malignin with increasing malignancy of cell growth 1,2 , the ubiquity of distribution of the. antigen, the cytotoxicity of the antibody and the antibody failure in the terminal state. Now that purified human antimalignin antibody is available 6,7 , and monoclonal antimalignin antibodies are available, the therapeutic uses of the antibody acting alone or as a carrier for anti cancer drugs can be further systematically examined.REFERENCES FOR EXAMPLE 10A 1. Bogoch, S. Brain glycoproteins and recognition function Recognins and cancer. Pages 555 556. In Volk, B.W. and Schneck, L. eds , Current Trends in Sphingolipidoses and Allied Disorders, Plenum Press,. New York, 1976.2. Bogoch, S. Astrocy tih and malignin Two polypeptide fragments recognins related to brain tumor. Nat. Cancer Inst. Mon. 46 133 137, 1977. 3. Bogoch, S. The detection of malignant gliomas in brain by the quantitative production in vitro of TAG target attaching globulins from human serum. PD. 358 361. In Bogoch,.S. ed Biological Dla 2sj s of Brain Disorders. Spectrum Wiley Press, New York, 1974.4 Bogoch, S. and Bogoch, Eros. Production of two recognins related to mal ignin Recognih M from mammary MCF 7 carcinoma cells and recognin L from P3J lymphoma cells. Neurochemical Res. 4 465 472, 1979. 5. Bogoch, S., Bogoch, E.S. Fager, C., Goldensohn, E., Harris, J.H., Hickok, D.F. Lowden, J.A. Lux, W.E., Ransohoff, J., and Walker, M.D. Elevated anti malignin antibody in the serum of cancer patients A multi hospital blind study. Neurology 29 584, 1979.6. Bogoch, S., and Bogoch, E.S. Disarmed anti malignin antibody in human cancer. Lancet, 1, 987, 1979.7. Bogoch, S. and Bogoch, E.S. Tumor markers Malignin and related recognins associated with malignancy rather than with cell type. In Battistin, L., Hashim, G., and Lajtha, A. eds Neurochemistry and Clinical Neurology, pp. 407 424. Alan R. Liss, Inc., New York, 1980. 8. Rigby, P. The transforming genes of SV40 and polyoma viruses. Nature 282 781 784, 1979. 9. Langan, T. Malignant transformation and protein phosphorylation. Nature 286 329 330, 1980. 10. Krupey, J., Gold, P. and Freedman, S.O. Physico chemical studies of the carcinoembryonic antigens of the human digestive system. J. Exptl. Med. 128 387 398, 1968. 11. Bogoch, S. and Bogoch, E.S. Quantitative determination of anti malignin antibody. In Rosenberg, S.A. ed Serologic Analysis of Human Cancer Antigens, pp. 693 696. Academic Press, Inc., New York 1980. 12 Harris, J.H., Gohara, A., Redmond, F., Bogoch, S. and Bogoch, E S. Immunofluorescent and serologic studies with anti malignin antibody. In Rosenberg, S.A. ed Sero I Serologic AnalZsis of Human Cancer Antigens, pp. 571 582. Academic Press, Inc., New York, 1980.13. Meck, R.A., Ingram, M., Meck, J.J., McCullough,, 3.L., Wu, M C, and Yunis, A.A. Establishment and Cell Cycle Kinetics of a Human Squamous Cell Carcinoma in Nude Mice and in Vitro. Cancer Res. 4 1076 1085, 1981.14. Editorial, The Cancer Connection . Lancet I 635 636, 1977.15. Hersh, E.M., Gutterman, J.U., Mavligit, G.M., Mountain, C.W., McBride, C.M., Burgess, M.A., Lurie, P.M., Zelen, M., Takita, H. and Vincent, R.G. Immunocompetence, Immunodeficiency and Prognosis in Cancer. Ann. New York Acad. Sci. 276 386 406, 1976.16. Dayhoff, M.O. ed Atlas of Protein Sequence and Structure. National Biomedical Research Found ation, Silver Springs, Md., 1972.17. Warburg, O., Gaweh, K., Geissler, AW., Schroder, W., Gewitz, H.S. and Volker, W. Arch. Biochem. Bio hs. 78 573, 1958.EXAMPLE IIDiagnosis of Tumor Cells by Immunofluorescence. The compounds Anti Astrocytin, Anti Malignin, andS TAG have been shown to attach preferentially to tumor cells. This specificity permits use of these compounds to diagnose tumor cells in histology sections by conjug ating dyes or radioactive substances to Anti Astrocytin, Anti Malignin, or S TAG. Standard labelling techniques may then be used. A procedure using S TAG is as follows. One procedure which has been found satisfactory is a modified St. Marie procedure. Human brain tumor speclmenz dre frozen acid micron thick sections StiilrJ cut. These are stored in a moist container at minus 700C for 4 to 8 weeks before staining. The conjugate may be a standard anti serum such as goat anti rabbit conjugate. The conjugate is labelld by techniques known in the art with fluorescein or other labelling substance. goat anti rabbit conjugate as commercially available may be used. The fluorescent technique used was a standard one in which a 1 200 to 1 400 solution of TAG is incubated for 30 minutes or more on the tumor section, followed by washes to remove unattached TAG. Three washes with phosphate buffered saline has been found satisfactory. Conjugate incubation with fluorescein labelled conjugate followed by washes is then performed, followed by microscopic inspection.Normal cells and their processes fail to stain both in tumor sections and in control sections of normal non tumor brain. Fluorescence is brightly present in tumor glial cells and their processes. EXAMPLE lIA detection of Non Brain Malignant Cells with Fluorescent S.1nalsfrom TAGSignals from TAG The uses of TAG products coupled with a signal emitter such as a dye or a radioactive label to detect cancer cells is described, for example, at pages 12 18 and Example 11 herein. In this Example llA, the detection of non brain malignant cells is described. As described in Example 10 utilizing human serum in the determination of TAG, after the anti malignin antibody was bound to the.inmobilized antigen and non bound serum proteins were washed away, the antibody was cloven from the binding with 0.25 M acetic acid at 37 C for 2 hours and the TARGET reagent was separated out by centrifuging.The TAG antibody solution was quantitated by means of its absorption at 280 mu. TheTAG solutions were stored at 20 C, then thawed and combined, brought to pH 7 by titration with 6N NaOH, dialysed against phosphate buffered saline of pH 7, filtered and concentrated on Millipore Pellicon 1000 membranes, centrifuged to clear insoluble protein and the immune globulin complexes, concentrated and freed of immunologically non active compounds by Cellex D andBlue Sepharose Cl6B Pharmacia chromatography. This human anti malignin antibody reacts with ant human gamna globulin in Ouchterlony double diffusion.WhenTAG is used with fluorscein conjugated to anti human gamma globulin in standard double layer Coons immuno iluoresence, it stains malignant glib, breast carcinoma, ovarian carcinoma, adenocarcinoma of the colon, and other types of cancer cells in postoperative and biopsy tissue sections, as well as in human sputum, bronchial washings, pleural effusion fluid, gastric aspirate and bladder urine. The concentration of protein in TAG which yields clear fluorescence when controls are negative, is I to 10 ug per section. The production of a purified TAG was undertaken by reacting the sera from pa tients with a variety of cancers with bromoacetylcellulose MALIGNIN by methods earlier described Example 8 . The antibody bound in this reaction was cleaved with 0.25 M acetic acid, qua.ntified by measurement at 0.D. 280 using a conversion factor of 1.46 for gamma globulin frozen and stored at 200C. This antibody was found to contain immunoglobulin as determined by anti human gamma globulin antiserum specific for gamma chains BioRad Laboratories, Inc. and with anti FAB and anti Fc fragments Miles Laboratories . It also reacts with rabbit anti human albumin BioRadLaboratories . It was found that, whereas 10 to 50 micrograms of protein TAG are required to produce specific immunofluorescent staining of cells which contain Malignin, only I to 10 micrograms of purified protein TAG are required for this specific staining to sections, and in a few, less than one microgram has been found to suffice. It was found that the most active preparation of purified TAG is that which is elated with the highest ionic strength elution, i.e., from 0.15 M to 1.5 M.Any method of zproduction which uses this fact is useful three preferred methods are given below.Method I Fractionation of TAG chromatography with DEAE cellulose Cellex D, BioRad Laboratories was first employed using step wise elution with increasing ionic strength and decreasing pH, and the same sequence of eluants as that given in Example I for the production of Crude Astrocytin Precursor Containing Fraction. Good separation was obtained of the bulk of the protein into three fractions, Peak I obtained with Solution I seeExample I and Peak II obtained with Solution 1 seeExample 1 and Peak II obtained with Solution 6 andSolution 7. Ouchterlon.y double diffusion showed theTAG in Peak I still to contain appreciable protein with albumin mobility, and while Peak II contained most of the albumin, appreciable IgG could be detected.Rechromatography of Peak I gave a progressively pure IgG until, after the seventh chromatography, essentially no albumin less than 3 could be detected by Ouchterlony gel diffusion in which 5 to 10 micrograms of human albumin were detectable with rabbit anti human albumin. The IgG so obtained was prone to denaturing and loss of imnuno logical reactivity after a few days standing at 0 5 C.Method II A second fractionation of TAG was made with chromatography on Sepharose CL 6B Pharmacia, Inc. starting with low molarity buffer 0.0005 M phosphate and proceeding in two steps of 0.15 M and 1.5 M to elute the balance of the protein. As with the Cellex D, one passage was found to be inadequate to separate, and recycling slowly improved the product. Once again, the most active fraction vis a vis anti n1dlignir, vntsbw was in the 1.5 M fraction. Method III Chromatography with Sepharose CL 6B next to the glass fritted dise and Cellex D layered above theSepharose proved to be the most satisfactory method. The graphical representation in Fig. 1 shows the fractions obtained on chromatography of TAG utilizingMethod Ill. After the first eluate of 200 mls., 50 ml.Or smaller sub fractions were collected. The protein content of each eluate was determined by the optical density at 280 mu with an uniform factor of 1.46 based on gamma globulin used to convert to micrograms for calculating recoveries. The absolute amount of protein requires correction in those fractions in which there is appreciable albumin. The points at which the stepwise solvent changes were made are indicated by arrows. The subfractions are designated by Roman numerals I to VIII, inclusive. The solvents corresponding to letters A F at the arrows were as follows A 0.01 M TRIS pH 7.2 B 0.05 M TRIS with 0.1 M NaCI pH 7.2 C PBS, 0.11 M NaCI pH 7. 2 D PBS, 0.165 M NaCI pH 7.2 E PBS, 0.33 M NaCI pH 7.2 F 0.05 M TRIS, 1.5 M NaCI pH 7.2 In the following Table are shown the recoveries from each fraction, a semi quantitative determination tn each of the gamma globulin and albumin in each, as well as the activity of each fraction in the immunofluorescent staining of cancer cells the plus sign indicates reaction, zero no reaction and plus minus reaction in some cases . TABLE Fraction I 11 III IV V VI VII VIII Recovered pg 2,877 l,i40 2,351 2,942 1,808 2,230 2,125 7,477 12.5 5 1002 12.8 7.9 9.7 9.3 32.6 Immunodiffusion Against Anti humanIgG specific for gamma chains o Anti human albuminAnti Fab o o Immunofluorescence Photographs were prepared showing the line of reaction between anti human gamna globulin specific for gamna chains for each of Fractions I and VIII from above. Photographs were taken showing the use of TAG Fraction VIII from above to stain non brain malignant cellos, i.e., a stain of bronchogenic carcinoma cells in the bronchial washings of a patient and a stain of lymphoma cells in the pleural fluid of a patient. Noncancer cells do n ot fluoresce. The TAG 1 to 10 pg in 0.1 ml phosphate buffered saline PBS is applied to the surface of packed cells on a glass slide, incubated for 30 minutes, washed three times with PBS and then layered with fluorescein conjugated anti human IgG diluted until non malignant control tissues give essentially no fluorescence. The cells are visualized with Zeiss fluorescent microscope using a. tungsten lamp and filters BG 23, BG 12 and 500. EXAMPLE 12 Blind Study of TAG Specificity in Immunofluorescence The presence of malignin was sought in cells collected from cancer patients and controls. Specimens were collected by thoracocentesis, paracentesis, bronchial or trachea washings, sputum and pericardial effusion, from patients with lung, breast, prostatic, colon and und.ifferentiated cancers, as well as from non cancer controls including patients with emphysema, heavy smoking and epilepsy and sputum from a former cancer patient with no evidence of disease for two years following successful treatment. Cells were concentrated by centrifuging. The following Table shows the correlation of the presence or absence of malignin cells as determined blind by immunofluorescent staining with anti malignin antibody TAG , and the clinical pathological diagnosis.The TAG stain result was correct in 20 22 specimens 91 . Standard Papanicolaou stain examinations performed blind on duplicates of these specimens by other pathologists were correct in 17 22 specimens 77 . CELL MALIGNIN IMMUNOFLUORESCENCE TAG RESULTS cancer non cancer totalClinical Cancer 14 2 16 Pathological Diagnosis Non cancer 0 6 6 Total 14 8 22 In addition to the positive stain for malignin in cells from breast, ovarian and bronchogenic carcinoma, and astrocytomas, cells grown in tissue culture from human squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva, and from five different types of human lymphoma, as well as leukaemic cells in both acute and chronic leukaemia blood have demonstrated positive staining. Malignin was visualized and photographed in a variety of.human cancer cells by anti malignin antibody double layer immunofluorescence. The second layer fluoresceinlabelled anti antibody was diluted in control experiments to as much as 1 1,600 until non specific fluorescence was completely eliminated in the absence of the first layer anti malignin antibody.Under these conditions, anti malignin antibody was active at one nanogram antibody protein per cancer cell in producing the specific immunofluorescence seen and photographed in A bronchogenic carcinoma cells, from bronchial washings B lymphocytic leukaemia cell, from blood Covarian carcinoma cellos, at surgery D squamous cell carcinoma 2 cells , grown in tissue culture E astrocytoma, anaplastic, at surgery.EXAMPLE 13 Detection of Cancer Cells with Radioisotope I From TAG In this Example, the feasibility of attaching a radioactive label to TAG is demonstrated. Second, the injection into animals of this radio labelled TAG has been accomplished and shown to be safe and effective.Third, the radio labelled TAG localized preferentially in the cancer tissue when compared with normal tissues, thus indicating that the specificity previously demonstrated in vitro of the preference for cancer cells which is conveyed by the use of specific anti MaligninTAG products is confirmed in vivo.The Label lngf TAG with 99n Technetium 99mac Procedure for Labelling 1. Two preparations of TAG were used, here designated TAG 1 and TAG 2. TAG 1 and TAG 2 concentration of each 0.4 mg 0.5 ml were added to separate sterile evacuated vials.2. To each vial was added 0.1 ml of a stannous chloride solution 10 mg SnCl2. 2 H20 in 100 ml of 0.01 N Hcl . The vials were mixed for 3 1 4 minutes.3. 0.1 ml. 6mCi of99mTc pertechnetate sodium salt was added and mixed 2 3 minutes. Procedure for Determining Labelling Efficiency Samples of the99mtc TAG l and 99mTc TAG 2 were tested for labelling efficiency by descending paper chromatography using Watman No. 1 paper with 85 methanol as the solvent. A similar study was done with SodiumPertechnetate 99mTc which acted as a control. Afte r 2 hours, the papers were removed from the .chromatography tank and divided in two sections 1 1 cm about the origin 2 the remai.ning paper up to the solvent front. Each section was then counted in a gamma well scintillation counter and its content of radioactivity determined cpm . Approximately 50 labda were plated on each paper strip.Procedure for Antigen Antibody Reaction A portion of the labelled solution was also plated on an Ouchterlony gel plate to determine its ability to react with malignin in the antigen antibody reaction.After a 3 hour period, the resulting sharp reactive lines were removed from the gel and their content of radio activity was measured. An equal portion of the gel not involved in the reaction was also removed and its content of radioactivity was also measured as background.Results Labelling Efficiency TABLE I Labelling Efficiency of 99mTc TAG I 1 and 9,9mTc TAG 2 COMPOUND SITE ON PAPER CPM CHEMICAL SPECIESNaTc04 99mTc origin 4.94 x 105 7.33 reduced Tc04 99mNaTc04 99mTc solvent front 6.25 X106 92.67 Tc04 TAG 1 origin 4.j x IU 98.47 TAG ic TAG I solvent front 6.76x104 1.53 TcO4 TAG 2 origin 1.96 X106 98.01 TAG99mTC TAG 2 solvent front 3.98 x 104 1.99 TcO4 TABLE 2 ANTIGEN ANTIBODY RESECTION GEL AREA COUNTS PER MIN. TAG 2 line 1.99 x 106 92.04 Background gel 1.72x105 7.96 Conclusions The following conclusions were reached relative to the quality control tests employed I. 99mTc pertechnetate was reduced by stannous chloride to a more reactive oxidation state 4 5 .2. The reduced pertechnetate labelled both the TAG 1 and TAG 2 preparations. 3. The99mTc TAG 2 was tested for its ability to retain its activity and was found to retain its ability to react immunologically.The Use of Radio Labelled TAG in vivo to Detect CancerCells Wistar rats were injected intracerebrally with C6 glioma tumor cells which had had previous passages in rats and in tissue culture. The rats were observed for the first signs of growing tumor, such as weakness, tremor or unsteadiness. These symptoms first appear seven to ten days from injection, and with fast growing tumors result in death within three to four days in many animals, and one week in all. As soon as symptoms appeared, the animals were injected with labelled TAG intravenously in the tail vein, then the animals were anaesthetized at varying times, the brain was removed, the tumor was dissected free of normal brain, and the radioactivities of the dissected specimens were compared with one another.Preliminary Sacrifice Tumor Counts gm min.Animal hr.ostiniection wt.,mg. Tumor Normal Brain A 1.25 1.9 149,100 13,400 B 5.30 6.0 16,200 6,600 C 7.21 23.0 53,000 5,800 D 24.10 29.0 66,700 7,500 Tumor and normal brain specimens were counted overnight in the gamma well counter. All samples and standards were decay corrected for convenience to the midcount of the first sample in the sequence.Conclusion The preferential localization of radioactivity in tumor as compared with normal tissue is demonstrated above. EXAMPLE 14PRODUCTION OF MONOCLONAL ANTI MALIGNIN ANTIBODIES,MAMA 5 NS F, AND MAMA FS, AND THEIR RESPECTIVE NOVEL PRODUCERCELLS A myeloma cell line P3.x63 Ag 8 was cultured inDulbecco s minimum essential medium supplemented with 10 , foetal bovine serum D10 , in a humidified incubator at 37 C and 5 CO2. Inbred female BALB cJ mice 8 weeks of age JacksonLaboratory, Bar Harbor, Maine were immunized intraperitoneally, 4 times at weekly intervals with I mg.Malignin emulsified in complete Freund s adjuvant Difco .Sera of the immunized mice were tested for the presence of anti malignin antibody and antibody positive mice were further boosted 4 days prior to cell fusion. Immune spleen cells 108 were fused with the myeloma cell 107 using polyethylene glycol PEG, 1000, J.T. Backer as the fusion inducing agent as described by Galfre et al Nature 266, 550 552, 1977 . The PEG treated cell mix was seeded into 96 wells of microtiter plate Costar 3596 in P10 supplemented with hypoxanthine, aminopterin, and thymidine D10 HAT Littlefield, J.W.,Science 145 709, 1964 . About one half of D10 HAT was replaced twice weekly for two weeks. The spleen cells did not survive in vitro, while the infused myeloma cells were killed in D10 HAT. Only the hybrid cells remained actively growing after 10 days under the selective conditions. After two weeks in D10 HAT, the hybrid cells were fed for another week with medium which was the same as D10 HAT except for the omission of aminopterin D HT then with Dlo.Whenever the wells were about 80 covered by hybrid cellos, supernatants were aspirated for ant i malignin antibody assay Cells from the antibody producing wells were cloned in soft agarose by modifications of the method described by Cotton et al Eur. J. Immunol. 3, 135 140, 1973 .Briefly, an equal volume of warm 0.8 agarose Seaplaque,Marine Colloid Inc. and. double strength D10 were mixed and plated 2 ml to a 60 mn dish and chilled at 40C for 15 minutes as base layer. One thousand cells in the same medium were overlayered on the base layer and chilled, then incubated under the same conditions as regular cell cultures. The anti malignin antibody positive clones were further grown as ascitic tumors in BALB cJ mice.TABLE EXAMPLE 14Quantity of Antibody l extracellular fluid for Each Ant i b dyPr oduc i n lone F fast reacting, in 10 minutes S slow reacting, in 2 hours FS both types of antibody produced Method as inExample 10 Extra Cellular Months AfterFluid Manufacture of PRODUCER CELLS MAMA F MAMA S MAMA F SCell 38 32 22 27 21 25 21Supernate 1 mo. v 67 32 38 37 27 21 21 19 42 27 53 21 21 19 27 30 55 62 25 25 23 25 21 27 32 23 29 27 26 29 37 26 44 48 45 52 23 29 34 33 2 18 30CellSupernate 3 mo. 51 16 41 34 41 39 136 15 36 36 29 23 73 16 47 41 39 37 44 29 39 33 30 27 32 62 58 22 22 30 101 110 15 18 23 30 29 18 18CellSupernate 4 mo. 19 30 18 18 30 34 32 29 32 30 26 23 15 16 21 23 30 27 25 25 27 27 26 23 21 27 29 30 30 29Cell 126 140 34 88 47 97 49 82Supernate 5 mo. 178 393 248 69 22 27 74 178 162 296 89 114 26 30 83 149 92 123 56 127 94 232 308 82 112 79 62 107 56 169 164 390 178 164 249 301Mouse 660 1,070Ascites 8 mo 780 670Fluid The above Table shows the quantities of monoclonal anti malignin antibody produced by each antibody producing clone, in micrograms of protein per ml of extracellular fluid. The yields of antibody are seen to be good for the first four months of propagation of the clones, and to have increased by the fifth month of propagation. The cells continued to grow well through the eigh th mouth and to successfully grow when transferred intraperitoneally to the mouse, where the yield of antibody again increased as expected to as much as i mg. of MAMA S per ml of ascites fluid. The cells also grew successfully on soft agar and were frozen and stored in liquid nitrogen and grown again after thawing. Aliquots of each clone were frozen in liquid nitrogen for permanent storage and regrowth at later dates. The monoclonal antibody in each case was quantified as protein by optical density at 280 mil limicrons, was non dialysable, and migrated on SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis predominantly as gamma chain immuno globulins. With progressive recloning, each specific monoclonal antibody producing ccell was concentrated. Thus, recloning of MAMA B Producer Cells yielded four out of six colonies which were MAMA B Producers, and recloning of MAMA A Producer Cells yielded three out of four colonies which were MAMA A Producers. Each of the three types of antibody stained a wide range of malignant cells by immunofluorescence in approximately the same concentration range as previously observed with purified TAG products. That is, one nanogram of antibody protein stained one cancer cell.Photographs were taken of specific immunofluorescent staining obtained with human leukaemic blood, both acute and chronic, six culture lines of leukaemia cells JY,KARPAS, CEM, RAJI, HL60 and K562 , and three human lymphomas. Staining was obtained with MAMA F, MAMA S and MAMA FS. Second layer staining with fluorescent labels, both fluorescein and rhodamine, at concentrations as low as 1 i,600 was observed and recorded. These very low concentrations of the second layer permitted dilution until background non specific staining was eliminated, and, at those concentrations of second layer FITC or rhodamine , highly specific staining was obtained with MAMA F, MAMA S and MAMA FS. EXAMPLE 15 DEMONSTRATION BY CYTOFLUOROGRAPHY OF A DIAGNOSTIC 11MALlGNIN FLUORESCENT INDEX1 WITH MONOCLONAL ANTI MALIGNIN ANTIBODIES F S Using the two monoclonal anti malignin antibodies,MAMA F and MAMA S, in several concentrations, t.ime of incubation, washing or no washing, different concentratiqns and times of incubation of fluorescein isothiocyanate anti mouse antibody FITC , and other specifications as to the method of preparing bloo.d and or white cells, in both normal and cancer sera leukaemias, lymphomas , in a study of how these antibodies may best be used with flow cytometry instruments, the following conclusions and preferred examples are discussed.1. By quantitating the actual number of cells fluorescing per 100 cells counted and correcting for the cells fluorescing without MAMA but with the FITC antibody alone, an absolute number is obtained which represents the true or specific fluorscence due to MAMA. Thus, Malignin Florescent Index Number of Cells fluorescing with MAMA plus FITC less Number of cells fluorescing with FITC alone 2. The Malignin Florescent Index is a rapid diag nostic test for malignant cells in fluid suspension, which distinguishes normal from malignant cells regardless of the cell type malignin is a general transformation antigen which relates to the process of malignant trans formation rather than the cell type .3. Examples from the data obtained Cells fluorescin 100 Malig Date MAMA Time, Washed Region Region Region Specific ninSpecimen Used mih. 2 Region Region Region Specific Fluor FITC 2 3 4 Total scent 4 29 81 min. IndexNormal 0 20 0 30 4.1 13.3 36.5Normal MAMA F 20 0 30 3.5 12.3 31.7 specific 0.6 1.0 4.8 6.4Leukaemia 0 20 0 30 11.8 7.8 3.0 L Leukaemia MAMA F 20 0 30 15.4 7.8 3.2 L Acute specific 3.6 0 0.2 3.8 10.2Normal O vs. 60 10 5.4 0.2 1.6 4.0 MAMA SLeukaemia O vs. 60 10 0.8 0.3 0.2 0.2 1.3 5.3 L MAMA SLeukaemia VH O vs. 60 10 2.7 141 0.5 16.3 12.3Chronic MAMA SLymphoma O vs. 60 10 0.1 0.4 11.8 12.3 16.3 SIO MAMA SLymphoma O vs. 60 10 0.5 0.3 6.1 5.3 9.3 515 MAMA SLymphoma O vs. 60 10 0.5 0.2 4.5 3.8 7.8 S16 MAMA S EXAMPLE 16 DEMONSTRATlON THAT ANTI ASTROCYTIN, ANTI MALIGNIN AND S TAG ARE CYTOTOXIC TO TUMOR CELLS GROWING IN TISSUE CULTURE Standard tests for determining cytotoxicity may be used. Generally, the number of cells in a fixed .counting chamber, usually arranged to contain about 100 live cells, is counted. These cells are then tr eated with the agent being tested and the number of cells which are still alive is counted. In a standard test cytotoxicity of S TAG Solution obtained in accordance with the methods of Example 9 against cells in tissue culture derived from a patient with a glioblastoma Grade III IV, well characterized as of glial original, S TAG produced death of all cells in the counting chambet.even when in high dilution of 1 00 and 1 1000, representing as little as 0.2 and 0.02 pg of S TAG per ml. of solution. Similar results are obtained with high dilutions of Anti Astrocytin and Anti Malignin. Both the specificity exhibited in Examples 11, llA, 12, 13, 14 and 15 and the cytotoxicity demonstrated in thisExample and Example 17 are highly relevant to the therapeutic possibilities of Anti Astrocytin s Anti Malignin andS TAG for malignant tumors in man. The practical diagnostic potential of both of these phenomena for tumor tissue removed at operation but requiring diagnosis by histology is already demonstrated herein.EXAMPLE 17DEMONSTRATION OF CYTOTOXICITY OF A MIXTURE OF MONOCLONALANTI MALIGNIN ANTIBODIES MAMA F AND MAMA S Whereas either MAMA F or MAMA S alone does not produce appreciable cytotoxicity with malignant cells, when these two monoclonal antibodies are mixed, the mixture is actively cytotoxic to malignant cells. In addition, the product MAMA FS is cytotoxic. All three preparations are cytotoxic in approximately the same concentrations as previously observed for Anti Astrocytin,Anti Malignin and S TAG products Example 16 . Approx imately one nanogram of antibody per cell is cytotoxic, resulting in lysis of the cell. Cytotoxicity also was observed and recorded on both the Coulter cytofluorograph and on the Ortho cytofluorograph, each of which permits absolute counts of viable cells with time. Destruction of viable malignant cells carcinoma oW the pancreas, leukaemic and lymphoma was observed over a period of 15 to 60 minutes. Those malignant cells which were identified by light scatter and specifically by fluorescence were destroyed by either the mixture of MAMA F and MAMA S or by MAMA FS. The killing of cancer cells is, by definition, a therapeutic process, and the products which produce this killing, are by definition, therapeutic products. As disclosed above, the various PRODUCER cells have had their desoxyribonucleic acid specifically programned by MALl GNIN to produce the anti MALIGNIN antibody. These include monoclonal anti Malignin antibody FAST producer cell, SLOW producer cell and FAST and SLOW producer cell. It will be appreciated that this invention covers both the desoxyribonucleic acids and the ribonucleic acids of all such PRODUCER ce lls.