# Solenoid clutch motor having axially adjustable elements.

## Abstract
A solenoid clutch motor includes a rotor shaft 28 , a flywheel 26 secured thereto, an output shaft 29 , first and second cores 21a, 22a , and clutch and brake coils 21, 22 mounted in the first and second cores 21a, 22a respectively. A rotary member 37 having a pair of axially spaced apart oppositely facing first and second surfaces 52, 53 is mounted on the output shah. A clutch disc 27 is axially but not rotatably slidably secured to the flywheel and axially spaced from the first core for engaging with the first surface 52 of the rotary member in response to energization of the clutch coil. An axially slidable but not rotatable brake disc 23 is provided in an axially spaced location from the second core 22a for engaging with the second surface 53 of the rotary member in response to energization of the brake coil 22 . Means 41, 43 39, 45 is provided for axially adjusting the position of either one of the rotary member 37 and the first core 21 .

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A solenoid clutch motor comprising a stator 15 , a rotor 25 securely mounted on a rotor shaft 28 , a flywheel 26 secured to said rotor shaft for rotation therewith, an output shaft 29 coaxial with said rotor shaft 28 , first and second cores 21a, 22a each being open in opposite directions, clutch and brake coils 21, 22 mounted in said first and second cores respectively, a driving clutch disc 27 axially spaced from the open end of said first core 21a for making pressure contact with a driven clutch disc 52 in response to energization of said clutch coil 21 , a stationary brake disc 23 axially spaced from the open end of said second core for making pressure contact with a rotary brake disc 53 in response to energization of said brake coil 22 , characterized in that said driven clutch disc 52 and said rotary brake disc 53 are provided on the opposite sides of a rotary member 37 and said rotary member is releasably mounted on said output shaft 29 , in that said driving clutch disc 27 is axially but not rotatably slidably mounted to said flywheel 26 and said stationary brake disc 23 is axially slidably but not rotatably mounted, and in that means 41, 43 39, 45 is provided for axially adjusting the position of one of said rotary member 37 and said first core 21a . 2. A solenoid clutch motor as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that said output shaft 29 is rotatably mounted on a ball bearing 40 , and said adjusting means comprises spacer means 41 disposed between said rotary member 37 and said ball bearing 40 and means for releasably fixing said rotary member 37 to said output shaft 29 .EMI11.1 3. A solenoid clutch motor as claimed in claim characterized in that said rotary member 37 is formed with a hub 50 in which said output shaft 29 is journalled, said fixing means 43 axially extends coaxially with said output shaft 29 and threadably engages said hub with said output shaft 29 . 4. A solenoid clutch motor as claimed in claim 1EMI11.2 X, characterized in that said adjusting means comprises spacer means 39 disposed between said first and second cores 21a, 22a and means 45 for releasably fixing said first core 21a to a stationary member 24 . 5. A solenoid clutch motor as claimed in claim 2 or 4, characterized in that each of said spacer means comprises at least one shim 41 39 . EMI12.1 6. A solenoid clutch motor as claimed inkclaim t, characterized in that said driving clutch disc is secured to said flywheel by axially movable means 33, 34, 35 at angularly spaced apart locations adjacent to said first core 21a and means 33b for biasing said driving clutch disc 27 in a direction toward said driven clutch disc 52 .EMI12.2 7. A solenoid clutch motor as claimed iniclaim EMI12.3 4, characterized in that said stationary brake disc 23 is axially movably but not rotatably mounted by means 33 , 34 , 35 to a stationary member 24 at angularly spaced apart locations adjacent to said second core 22a and means 3b is provided for biasing said stationary brake disc 23 in a direction toward said rotary brake disc 53 .

## Description
EMI1.1 SOLENOID CLUTCH MOTOR HAVING AXIALLY ADJUSTABLE ELEMENTS BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to a selenoid clutch motor which couples the motive power of the rotor to an output shaft in response to energization of a clutch coil and decouples the motive power in response to energization of a brake coil. Conventional solenoid clutch motors comprise a clutch disc secured to a flywheel and a brake disc statinarily secured to a housing structure. A pair of rotary discs each having a lining is axially but not rotatably slidably mounted on an output shaft for making pressure contact with the clutch and brake discs, respectively, in response to energization of clutch and brake coils which are permanently secured to the housing. One disadvantage of such conventional solenoid clutch motors relates to the fact that the amount of magnetic coupling between the clutch coil and the clutch disc cannot be optimized to meet the specific torque demand. Another disadvantage resides in the fact that as the lining of the clutch disc wears the hard bodies of the clutch engaging members will eventually contact with each other terminating the life span of the motor. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The primary object of the invention is therefore to provide a solenoid clutch motor which obviates the problems encountered with conventional solenoid clutch motors. The solenoid clutch motor of the invention includes a stator, a rotor securely mounted on a rotor shaft, a flywheel secured to the rotor shaft for rotation therewith, an output shaft coaxial with the rotor shaft, first and second cores each being open in opposite directions, and clutch and brake coils mounted in the first and second cores respectively. The motor comprises a rotary member having a pair of axially spaced apart oppositely facing first and second surfaces mounted for rotation with the output shaft. A clutch disc is axially but not rotatably slidably secured to the flywheel for rotation therewith and axially spaced from the open end of the first core for making pressure contact with the first surface of the rotary member in response to energization of the clutch coil.An axially slidable but not rotatable brake disc is provided in an axially spaced location from the open end of the second core for making pressure contact with the second surface of the rotary member in response to energization of the brake coil. Means is provided for axially adjusting the position of one of the rotary member and the first core. The solenoid clutch motor of the invention is advantageous for use in applications where a variety of torque demands are required to be met. A typical example of such applications is industrial sewing machines. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS The present invention will be described in further detail with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Figs. 1 and 2 are illustrations of a typical example of conventional solenoid clutch motors Fig. 3 is a longitudinal view in cross section of a solenoid clutch motor of the invention and Fig. 4 is a detailed, partial view of the motor ofFig. 3. DETAILED DESCRIPTION Before going into the detail of the present invention reference is first had to Figs. 1 and 2 in which a conventional solenoid clutch motor is illustrated. The solenoid clutch motor comprises a clutch coil 1 mounted in a ring core la, a brake coil 2 mounted in a ring core 2a, and a stationary brake disc 3 all of which are securely fixed to the motor housing by a bracket 4. A rotor 5 having a driving shaft 8 drives a flywheel 6 to which a driving clutch disc 7 is rigidly fixed. Coaxially with the driving shaft 8 is rotatably mounted a driven or output shaft 9 with which a driven clutch disc 11 and a rotary brake disc 12 are axially but not rotatably slidably coupled by spline connection.Each of the driven clutch disc 11 and rotary brake disc 12 is provided with outer and inner annular edges a and b forming an annular groove therebetween in which a lining 10 is secured. When the clutch coil 1 is energized a magnetic circuit 101 is formed through the core la, driving clutch disc 7 and driven clutch disc 11 to cause the latter to pressure contact with the driving clutch disc 7 to transmit the motive power of the rotor 8 to the output shaft 9. In a well known manner the current in the clutch coil 1 is controlled by a speed control circuit, not shown, so that the speed of the output shaft 9 is driven at a desired speed. Upon energization of the brake coil 2 a magnetic circuit 102 is formed through the core 2a, stationary brake disc 3 and rotary brake disc 12 to cause the latter to pressure contact with the stationary brake disc 3 to rapidly decelerate the output shaft 9. Since the conventional construction permits no adjustment of the air gap between the clutch discs 7 and 11 and the air gap between the brake discs 3 and 12, it is impossible to make adjustment on the magnetic coupling between them. Because the solenoid clutch motor is used extensively as a power source of industrial sewing machines which are designed to operate under a variety of loading conditions for specific purposes, one disadvantage of such conventional solenoid clutch motors relates to the incapability of optimizing the amount of magnetic coupling to the specific loading requirement of each industrial sewing machine. Another disadvantage of conventional solenoid clutch motors resides in the fact that as the linings 10 are worn with operating time the driving clutch disc 7 will eventually contact with the outer and inner annular edges lla, llb of the driven clutch disc 11. Thus, the usable lifetime of the solenoid clutch motor is relatively short. While the lifetime could be increased by increasing the thickness of the lining 10 on the driven clutch disc 11, this would result in an increase in the air gap between it and the driven clutch disc 7 causing a decrease in the amount of driving power of the motor. Referring to Figs. 3 and 4, there is shown a preferred embodiment of the solenoid clutch motor according to the present invention. The solenoid clutch motor of the invention comprises a first housing portion 14 and a second housing portion 24 which are releasably coupled together by a suitable means. A rotor 25 is mounted on a rotor shaft 28 concentrically with a stator 15. The rotor shaft 28 is journalled through a ball bearing 16 which is secured to the first housing portion 14 by screws 17. A clutch coil 21 is mounted within a ring core 21a which is open toward the rotor 25. A brake coil 22 is similarly mounted within a ring core 22a which is open in the opposite direction and rigidly secured to the second housing portion 24.The core 21a is secured by a bolt 45 with a washer 44 to the housing 24 with a plurality of thin plates or adjustment shims 39 in lamination being interposed between the cores 21a and 22a. A plurality of angularly spaced apart guide pins 34 are firmly secured by screws 33a to a flywheel 26 which is mounted on the rotor shaft 28. A driving clutch disc 27 is formed with a plurality of angularly spaced apart openings in each of which is securely fixed a collar 34 havipg a groove in which a noise absorbing rubber ring 35 is disposed. In each of the rubber rings 35 is tightly received a metal bearing or slide ring 36 and this ring 36 is axially slidable on the guide pin 33. A compression spring 33b, provided around each of the collars 34, extends between the flywheel 26 and the driving clutch disc 27, whereby the latter is axially but not rotatably slidably secured to the flywheel 26. A similar arrangement is provided for the stationary brake disc 23 by corresponding elements designated by the same but primed numerals so that the brake disc 23 can be axially slidable. A clutch and brake rotary member 37 is provided having a hollow hub portion 50 which is secured by a bolt 43 with a washer 42 to an output shaft 29 which is in turn rotatably mounted in coaxial relation with the rotor shaft 28 on a ball bearing 40 which is secured to the second housing portion 24. The flywheel side of the hollow hub portion 50 is slid over a ball bearing 51 and the opposite side thereof is in abutment contact with a ball bearing 40 with one or more shims 41 provided therebetween. The rotary member 37 is formed with a pair of discs 52 and 53 each having a lining 20 on the outer side and a noise absorbing rubber sheet 38 on the inner side for reducing noise generated when the lining is brought into contact with the mating surface. When the clutch coil 21 is energized, a magnetic circuit 121 is formed passing through the core 21a and the outer peripheral portion of the driving clutch disc 27 as illustrated in Fig. 4 to cause the bearings 36 of disc 27 to slide over the guide pins 33 axially toward the core 21a and therefore the driving clutch disc 27 is brought into pressure contact with the lining 20 of rotary member 37 to transmit the motive power of the driving rotor 25 to the output shaft 29. Upon energization of the brake coil 22 a magnetic circuit 122 is fomrd which passes through the core 22a and the outer circumferential portion of the brake disc 23 to cause the bearings 36 of disc 23 to slide over the guide pins 33 axially toward the core 22a, so that the brake disc 23 is brought into pressure contact with the lining 20 of rotary member 37. By appropriately selecting the number of shims 41 the axial position of the rotary member 37 can be precisely determined and by appropriately selecting the number of shims 39 the axial position of the clutch coil 21 and hence the air gap between the core 21a and clutch disc 27 can be precisely determined. Therefore, the magnetic coupling between the clutch coil 21 and clutch disc 27 can be appropriately determined. A sensor 60 is preferably provided to detect when the air gap between the clutch disc 27 and core 21a reduces to a predetermined value after the lining 20 has worn out to a point of danger. When the sensor 60 is activated a warning signal is given to alert the operator to reduce the number of shims 39 to move the core 21a away from the clutch disc 27 by an amount corresponding to the amount of wear on lining 20. On the other hand, if the lining 20 has worn out, the loss of pressure contact between the brake discs 23 and 53 can be compensated by reducing the number of shims 41. When adjusting the axial position of either the rotary member 37 or the core 21a, it is simply necessary to decouple the first and second housing portions 14 and 24 from each other. This reveals the adjusting bolts 43 and 45 to make them readily accessible for loosening. Various modifications of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the scope of the invention which is only limited by the appended claims.