# Acid halide and acyllactam functional materials and process for the preparation of nylon block polymers therewith.

## Abstract
Acid halide and acyllactam functional materials, which are useful in the preparation of nylon block polymers, selected from the group consisting of those of the formulae

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An acid halide or acyllactam functional material selected from those of the formulaeEMI68.1 wherein, A is X or Q X is halogen Q isEMI68.2 with Y equal to C3 Cll alkylene R1 is an alkyl, aralkyl, alkyloxy, aryloxy, halogen, or aralkyloxy group b is an integer equal to 2 or more z is a segment of 1 a polyether having a minimum molecular weight of about 2000 or 2 a polyester containing polyether segments having minimum molecular weights of 2000. 2, An acid halide functional material of Claim 1, wherein A is X. 3. An acid halide functional material of Claim 2, wherein Z is a segment of 1 a polyether derived from a triol or 2 a polyester containing polyether segments derived from a triol. 4. An acid halide functional material of Claim 2, wherein Z is a segment of 1 a polyether derived from a triol and having a minimum molecular weights of about 3000 or 2 a polyester containing polyether segments derived from a triol, the polyether segments having minimum molecular weights of about 3000. 5. An acid halide functional material of any ofClaims 2 to 4, wherein X is chlorine or bromine. 6. An acid halide functional material of any ofClaims 2 to 5, wherein the polyether in Z comprises poly oxyethylene , poly oxybutylene , poly oxypropylene , or a block polymer of poly oxypropylene and poly oxyethylene . 7. A composition comprising at least one acid halide functional material as defined in any of Claims 2 to 6, wherein the average value for b of the composition is greater than 2. 8. An acyllactam functional material of Claim 1 whereinA is Q. 9. An acyllactam functional material of Claim 8, wherein Z is as defined in Claim 3, Claim 4 or Claim 6. 10. An acyllactam functional material of Claim 8 orClaim 9, wherein Q is a residue of caprolactam. 11. A composition comprising more than one acyllactam functional material as defined in any of Claims 8 to 10, wherein the average value for b of the composition is greater than 2. 12. A process for preparing a nylon block copolymer which comprises bringing into reactive contact lactam monomer, basic lactam polymerization catalyst and an acyllactam functional material or composition according to any of Claims 8 to 11. 13. A process of Claim 12, that is carried out at a temperature of from about 70 C. to about 2500C. 14. A process of Claim 13, that is carried out at a temperature of from about 12OOC. to about 1700C. 15. A process of any of Claims 12 to 14, wherein the catalyst is caprolactam magnesium bromide or chloride.

## Description
ACID HALIDE AND ACYLLACTAM FUNCTIONAL MATERIALS AND PROCESS FOR THE PREPARATION OF NYLON BLOCK POLYMERS THEREWITH BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONField of the Invention This invention relates to 1 acid halide functional materials derived from hydroxyl containing material with an acid halides which has di or multihalide functionality, 2 corresponding acyllactam functional derivatives, and 3 the preparation of nylon block polymers employing such functional materials.Description of the Prior Art Polymers containing polyamide segments and segments of another material have been disclosed in the art and are herein referred to as nylon block polymers . A combination of polyamide segments and segments of another polymeric material allows for the obtaining of block polymers with unique combinations of properties. The properties can be varied by varying the polyamide and or other polymeric segments in the block polymer. Such block polymers have been found particularly suitable for use as fibers, fabrics, films and molding resins. In U.S. Patents 4,031,164, issued June 21, 1977, and 4,223,112, issued September 16, 1980, both to Hedrick and Gabbert, there are taught nylon block polymers containing nylon segments derived from lactam monomers and other polymeric blocks derived from polyols. Polyacyl lactams provide linkages for blocks in the nylon block polymers taught in Hedrick andGabbert. Molded articles having a unique combination of properties can be made from the nylon block polymers taught therein. It is taught in the aforementioned Hedrick and Gabbert patents that the preparation the block polymers taught therein involves mixing together lactam monomer, polyol, lactam polymerization catalyst and the polyacyl lactam. The catalytic process for imide alcohol condensation taught by Bedrick andGabbert in USP Re 30,371, reissued August 12, 1980, can be employed in the preparation of the Hedrick andGabbert nylon block polymers. In U.S. Patent 3,657,385, issued April 18, 1972 to Matzner et al, there are disclosed block polymers prepared from lactam monomer and polyarylene polyethers by anionically polymerizing the lactam monomer with a catalyst initiator system which comprises, as the initiator or activator, one or more of certain polyarylene polyethers. The particular polyarylene polyether initiators disclosed as useful have terminal groups selected from various specified groups. Alternative methods for the preparation of nylon block polymers, for example, of the type taught in the aforementioned Hedrick and Gabbert patents, would be of interest to those skilled in the art and is an object of the present invention. Another object of this invention is to provide new materials useful as intermediates in the preparation of nylon block polymers. These and other objects will become apparent from the following detailed description of the present invention. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION In accordance with the present invention, there are provided acid halide and acyllactam functional materials of the formulae EMI3.1 wherein, A is X or Q X is halogen Q is Y with Y C3 C11 alkylene b is an integer equal to 2 or more is is a di or poly valent group selected from hydrocarbon groups and hydrocarbon groups containing ether linkages Z is a segment of 1 a polyether having a minimum molecular weight of 2,000 or 2 a polyester containing polyether segments,the polyether segments having minimum molecular weights of about 2,000. Also in accordance with the present invention, there is provided a process for preparing a nylon block polymer which comprises bringing into reactive contact lactam monomer, basic lactam polymerization catalyst and an acyllactam functional material of the above formulae wherein A is Q. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION The acid halide functional materials taught herein can be prepared by modification of the method described in our European Patent Application No. filed herewith under Agents Reference 08 21 1223A EP .That application describes reacting a hydroxyl containing material with an acid halide functional material containing two or more carboxylic acid halide groups 0 i.e. C halogen groups . In the reaction mixture the equivalents of acid halide groups should be maintained in excess of the hydroxyl groups. In this reaction the acid halide material attaches to the hydroxyl sites in the hydroxyl containing material through ester linkages. By product hydrogen halide results from the hydrogen and halogen which are displaced. An example of this reaction can be depicted as follows EMI4.1 Acid Halide KX FunctionalMaterial wherein my nx 2 In the above reaction R tOH is a material containing two or more hydroxyl groups, i.e. x is at least 2, preferably 2 to 4.This material can be a diol, triol or a material having higher hydroxyl content. The R group in the hydroxyl containing material can be a hydrocarbon preferably having a molecular weight of at least 100 , a polyester or a polysiloxane group. It is to be understood that, unless otherwise stated, reference herein to molecular weight for polymers or polymeric segments means number average molecular weight which can be determined by methods well known in the art, e.g. gel phase chromatography. Reference herein to polysiloxane1 group or segment herein means a group or segment containing at least 50 percent by weight of one or more A SSi Ot a siloxane unit repeat units. In this A structure for siloxane units A can be methyl or phenyl. olysiloxane groups or segments would typically have present other groups, for example, ether groups with residues of lower alkyls such as ethane, such groups typically being terminating groups on a chain of repeating siloxane units. These other groups may comprise up to 50 weight percent of the polysiloxane group, preferably less than 30 weight percent. Preferred R groups are hydrocarbon and polyether groups. Exemplary hydrocarbon groups are alkylene in the case of diols such as ethylene glycol and polymeric hydrocarbons such as a segment of polybutadiene which can be functionalized to contain two or more hydroxyl groups. A polyoxypropylene segment which can be functionalized to contain two or more hydroxyl groups is an example of a polyether group. Exemplary hydroxyl containing materials useful in the above depicted reaction are ethylene glycol, propylene glycol, poly oxybutylene glycol, poly oxyethylene glycol, poly oxypropylene diol, poly oxypropylene triol, poly oxypropylene tetrol, polybutadiene diol, hydroxyl functionalized polydimethylsiloxanes and combinations thereof, for example, block polymers of poly oxypropylene and poly oxye.thylene functionalized with two or more hydroxyl groups. The acid halide material in the above depicted reaction,EMI6.1 contains two or more acid halide groups, i.e. y is greater than 1, generally 2, 3 or 4, preferably 2. The R group in this acid halide material is a hydrocarbon group or a hydrocarbon group containing ether linkages generally up to 20 weight percent ether oxygen . Preferred are hydrocarbon groups, most preferably those containing 1 to 12 carbon atoms. Even more preferred R groups are hydrocarbon groups or hydrocarbon groups having ether linkages which provide at least three successively bonded elementary atoms between any two carbonyl groups bonded to R. Examples of preferred acid halides are sebacic acid chloride and phthalic acid chloride wherein the carbonyl groups are attached thereto either in the meta or para position, i.e. isophthaloyl and terephthaloyl acid chloride, respectively. In place of the acid halide depicted in the above reaction there may be employed acid halides having the structureEMI7.1 In the above depicted structure X is halogen. In accordance with the present invention, in place of the acid halides described above as useful in the above reaction, there may be employed acid halides having the structureEMI7.2 phosphorus or sulfur containing acid halides of the structuresEMI7.3 with X as defined hereinbefore, and R1 being an alkyl, aryl, aralkyl, halogen, alkyloxy, aryloxy or aralkyloxy group. Exemplary acid halides which may be employed in the above reaction are adipoyl chloride, terephthaloyl chloride, trimesoyl chloride, trimellitic chloride, oxalyl chloride, isophthaloyl chloride, pyromellitoyl chloride, pimeloyl chloride, glutaryl chloride, benzophenone tetracarboxylic acid chloride, oxydiacetyl chloride, oxydibenzoyl chloride, carhnn1 chloride. . sulfuryl chloride, phosphorus oxychloride, sebacic acid chloride, azelaic acid chloride, alkyl , aryl , and aralkylphosphorodichloridates, alkyl , aryl and aralkylpnosphonodichloridates. Those marked with an asterisk are useful in the present invention. It is to be understood that numbers designating the amount of functional groups on materials described herein e.g. the numbers x, y and b above would be integers for a single molecule of the material. However, many of such materials, particularly polymeric materials, generally exist in mixtures or compositions containing species having varying amounts of functionality, some species possibly having an amount higher or lower than desired. For such mixtures or compositions, a number designating the amount of functional groups would represent an average of the different species and thus would not necessarily be an integer. Essentially all of the hydroxyl groups in the hydroxyl containing starting material are converted in the above described reaction. By providing the acid halide groups in excess of the hydroxyl groups the resulting reaction product is functionalized with acid halide groups. The above reaction is preferably carried out in the presence of a non interfering solvent, e.g.cyclohexane, toluene, tetrahydrofuran, or acetone to facilitate removal of the hydrogen halide which is generated. It is also possible for the reaction to proceed without the presence of a solvent with the hydrogen halide being driven off with heat, vacuum, nitrogen sweeping or the like. When a solvent is employed in the reaction, a basic material which acts as an acid scavenger to produce a by product which is insoluble in the solvent may be employed as a convenient means for removing the hydrogen halide.Well known acid scavengers such as tertiary amines may be employed. The above reaction can be carried out under essentially ambient conditions and will proceed even more rapidily at higher temperatures, e.g. 30 C to 150 C. Precise temperature for the reaction may depend upon the solvent employed. If a solvent is employed it can be removed after the reaction by distillation. The above described procedure results in reaction between a hydroxyl group of the hydroxyl containing material and an acid halide group of the acid halide material. The following acid halide functionalized materials can thus be prepared as described In ouratove mentioned European Patent alication EMI9.1 wherein, X is halogen a is an integer equal to 1, 2 or 3 b is an integer equal to 2 or more R is a di or poly valent group selected from hydrocarbon groups and hydrocarbon groups containing ether linkages Z is a segment of 1 a polyester preferably said polyester is not comprised solely of poly tetramethylene terephthalate or poly tetramethylene isophthalate 2 a polyether 3 a hydrocarbon or 4 a polysiloxane. The following acid halide functionalized materials representing an embodiment of the present invention can be prepared in accordance with the above described procedure EMI9.2 EMI10.1 wherein, R1 is an alkyl, aryl, aralkyl, halogen, alkyloxy, aryloxy, or aralkyloxy groups X and b are as defined hereinbefore and Z is a segment of 1 a polyester 2 a polyether preferably said polyether is not solely polyarylene polyether 3 a hydrocarbon or 4 a polysiloxane. The Z segment in the above Formulae I a andI b is a segment of 1 a polyester 2 a polyether 3 a hydrocarbon or 4 a polysiloxane with certain provisos recited hereinbefore. The Z segment for the reaction product depicted by Formulae I a and I b can be the same as an R group of a hydroxylfunctional material employed in the reaction described hereinbefore. Alternatively, the Z segment can be a segment containing two or more residues of the starting hydroxyl containing material linked together with a residue s of the starting acid halide material. It is to be understood that in connection with the description of Z segments or R groups herein, reference to polymeric segments groups embraces oligomeric segments groups unless a specific usage precludes such interpretation. It is also to be understood that these segments groups may be linear, branched or even star structures. A Z segment which is a segment of a polyester could be derived from the reaction of an acid halide having di or multi halide functionality with a hydroxyl containing material, the groups in the hydroxyl containing material being linked together by the acid halide through polyester linkages. Exemplary hydroxyl containing starting materials which may be employed in such a reaction are ethylene glycol, propylene glycol, polycaprolactone diol and polyol, and polybutadiene diol. Acid halides such as those exemplified hereinbefore may be employed. Those skilled in the art would recognize a wide variety of. polyester segments which may represent Z in the aboveFormulae I a and I b . It should be understood that a Z segment which is a segment of a polyester would in fact contain smaller segments which fall within the other categories of possible Z segments, for example, hydrocarbon or polyether segments. As an example, a Z segment which is a segment of a polyester can be derived from a hydroxyl containing material containing a polyether group and an acid halide material whereby two or more of the polyether groups become linked together by the acid halide material through ester linkages. The hydroxyl containing material may be derived from a diol, triol, or polyol. A specific example of such would be the reaction product of poly oxypropylene triol and terephthaloyl chloride wherein a residue of the terephthaloyl chloride provides a linkage between two units derived from the triol.Such polyester Z segments could be more specifically described as poly ether ester segments which are a preferred type of polyester segment within the scope of the teachings herein. Similarly, other preferred polyester Z segments are those which are the reaction product of a diol or triol which contains polymeric hydrocarbon units with an acid halide material whereby two or more of the polymeric hydrocarbon units become linked together by the acid halide material. An example of such is the reaction product of a polybutadiene diol with terephthaloyl chloride wherein two or more polybutadiene segments are linked together by the terephthaloyl chloride through ester linkages. Polyester segments which may represent Z can vary widely in size but generally have molecular weights of at least 500. Preferred molecular weights for these segments are from about 1,000 to about 25,000. Preferred types of polyesters which contain polyether or polymeric hydrocarbon segments generally contain these segments at molecular weights of from about 500 to about. 4,000. Furthermore, as will be discussed below, the properties of a nylon block copolymer prepared from an acid halide functionalized material wherein the Z segment is a polyester exhibits unexpected results when the polyester contains polyether segments having a minimum molecular weight of about 2,000. A segment of a polyether is a preferred Z segment in the present invention. Such can be derived from a hydroxyl containing material which contains a polyether segment. Such hydroxyl containing materials which are preferred include poly oxyethylene glycol poly oxybutylene glycol poly oxypropylene diol, triol, and tetrol and block polymers af poly oxypropylene and poly oxyethylene functionalized with two or more hydroxyl groups. The Z polyether segments generally have a molecular weight of at least 500, preferably at least 1,000, and more preferably at least about 2,000.Preferred molecular weights are from about 1,000 to about 25,000, more preferred 2,000 25,000. Even more preferred are molecular weights from about 2,000 to about 4,000 for diol derivatives, from about 3,000 to about 12,000 for triol derivatives and from about 4,000 to about 16,000 for tetrol derivatives. It has been determined, as will be further discussed below, that the properties of a nylon block copolymer prepared from an acid halide functionalized material wherein the Z segment is a polyether can be significantly influenced by the molecular weight of the segment and that certain preferred molecular weights result in unexpected beneficial results. It has further been determined that a minimal amount of cross linking in the prepared nylon block copolymer, which occurs when the average functionality of a composition of acid halide functional materials is greater than two, also results in unexpectedly improved properties. These features will be discussed and exemplified more fully below. A Z segment which is a segment of a hydrocarbon can be derived from a hydroxyl containing material which contains a hydrocarbon segment. The size of the hydrocarbon group can vary widely in size from alkylene groups of low molecular weight to polymeric hydrocarbons of substantially higher molecular weight. If Z is a low molecular weight hydrocarbon the acid halide functional materials ofFormulae I a and I b could be employed to join nylon blocks together as described hereinafter. The resulting linkage would introduce the low molecular weight hydrocarbon as an additional block in the resulting nylon block polymer. Examples of low molecular weight hydrocarbon Z segments would be theC2 to C7 alkylenes. Preferred Z segments in the present inventionare segments of polymeric hydrocarbons. By polymeric hydrocarbon segment herein is meant a hydrocarbon segment of molecular weight of at least about 100 and containing two or more repeat units.Exemplary hydroxyl containing materials which can be employed to provide Z segments which are segments of a polymeric hydrocarbon are alkylene C8 and above glycols and polybutadiene diols, triols, tetrols and even higher polyols. Segments which are polymeric hydrocarbons preferably have a molecular weight of at least 500, even more preferably from about 1,000 to about 25,000. Most preferred are molecular weights from about 1,000 to about 4,000 for diol derivatives, from about 3,000 to about 12,000 for triol derivatives, and from about 4,000 to about 16,000 for tetrol derivatives. The Z segment may also be a segment of a polysiloxane, such being defined hereinbefore. Such aZ segment could be derived from a hydroxyl containing material having a polysiloxane segment. Exemplary hydroxyl containing materials of this type are polydimethylsiloxanes containing two or more hydroxyl functional groups. Polysiloxane segments would generally have a molecular weight of at least 500, preferably at least 1,000. More preferably the molecular weight of such segments would be from about 1,000 to about 25,000. It should be recognized that the Z segment in the above Formulae may contain a combination of the just described polyester, polyether, hydrocarbon and polysiloxane segments. As discussed hereinbefore preferred polyester segments contain polyether or polyhydrocarbon segments. Also as discussed hereinbefore, polysiloxane segments as defined herein typically contain groups other than siloxane units. It is recognized that other combinations of polyester,, polyether, hydrocarbon and polysiloxane segments are possible, and such are contemplated equivalents for use as Z segments in the present invention. In the above Formulae I a and i b the latter in accordance with the present invention , X is a halogen, preferably chlorine or bromine, most preferably chlorine. The integer a in Formulae I a is preferably 1 which would be the case when a diacid halide of the structureEMI15.1 is employed in the reaction described above. The integer b inFormulae I a and I b is at least 2, preferably 2 to 20, most preferably 2 to about 4. R in the above Formulae I a is a di or poly valent hydrocarbon group valency equal to a 1 and would correspond to the R group in the acid halide starting material in the above described reaction scheme. R1 in Formulae 1 b is an alkyl, aryl, aralkyl, alkyloxy, aryloxy, or aralkyloxy group. Acid halide functional materials of the above mentioned applcation. which are preferred are those represented by the formulae EMI16.1 wherein X is chlorine or bromine, b is 2 to about 4 and R and Z are as defined hereinabove. As discussed hereinabove, a further preferred form for acid halide functional materials is wherein the R groups provide at least three successively bonded elementary atoms between any two carbonyl groups bonded to R. Examples of such R groups are those derived from adipoyl halide, isophthaloyl halide and terephthaloyl halide. The acid halide functional materials taught herein have been found to be useful in the preparation of nylon block polymers. It has been found that the acid halide functional materials of the present invention can be reacted with a lactam monomer to result in an acyllactam functional material which can further be reacted with lactam monomer to form a nylon block polymer. For example, the acid halide functional materials depicted in Formulae I a above can be reacted with a lactam monomer containing from about 4 to about 12 carbon atoms, to produce the following acyllactam functional materials EMI17.1 wherein,EMI17.2 alkylene and a, b, R and Z are as defined above for Formula 1 a . Similarly, the acid halide functional materials depicted in Formulae I b above can be reacted with lactam monomer to produce the following acyllactam functional materials EMI17.3 wherein,EMI17.4 b, R1 and Z are as defined above for Formula 1 b , with R1 also possibly being Q. The reaction of acid halide functional materials with lactam monomer to prepare the acyllactam functional materials of Formulae III a andIII b would typically be carried out in the presence of a solvent, e.g. cyclohexane, toluene, acetone or excess lactam monomer, and an acid scavenger to facilitate the removal of hydrogen halide generated in the reaction. The reaction may also be carried out without the presence of a solvent. The previous discussion regarding the use of solvent and reaction conditions in connection with the reaction of hydroxyl containing material with acid halide functional material equally applies here.In an alternatiye method the acyllactam functional materials can be prepared under similar conditions from a reaction mixture containing a hydroxyl containing material, an acid halide functional material and lactam monomer, without ever isolating the intermediate acid halide functional material FormulaeI a or I b which is formed. A quantitative reaction is preferred to displace essentially all of the halogens in the acid halide of Formulae I a orI b with lactam groups. The acyllactam functional polymer ofFormulae III a and b above can then be reacted with additional lactam monomer to prepare a nylon block polymer. Additional hydroxyl containing material may be included in the reaction mixture but the acyllactam groups should be present in excess of the hydroxyl groups in the mixture. The hydroxyl containing material will become incorporated in the nylon block polymer. The materials should be intimately mixed.Antioxidant is generally included in the reaction mix.This reaction is generally carried out in the presence of a suitable basic catalyst for the anionic polymerization of lactam, preferably caprolactam magnesium bromide or chloride. A small amount of catalyst may be effective, e.g. a fraction of one mole percent of the lactam monomer to be polymerized, but higher amounts, e.g. from 1 to 20 mole percent, or higher, based on the lactam monomer may be employed.The lactam monomers generally contain 4 to about 12 carbon atoms, preferably 6 to about 12. Caprolactam which herein means F caprolactam is particularly preferred. Corresponding residues of such preferred lactam monomers are preferred for Q in Formulae III a and b . In relatively short reaction times, e.g., less than 10 minutes or even less than 30 seconds, and under moderate conditions, e.g. from about 70 0C to about 250 C, preferably about 1200C to about 170 0C, the formation of a nylon block polymer results. The lactam can polymerize at the acyllactam sites and also be inserted at ester and amide sites. Nylon block polymers disclosed in the aforementioned Hedrick andGabbert patents can thus be prepared.The fast reaction time to form the nylon block polymers makes the materials disclosed herein particularly useful in reaction injection molding applications, with other related applications, such as in mold coating of substrates, rotation molding, resin transfer molding, and pultrusion molding also contemplated. The relative amounts of lactam monomer and acyllactam functional polymer employed in the preparation of nylon block polymer by the process described above can vary widely depending upon the nylon block polymer desired. The lactam monomer and acyllactam functional polymer can be present in proportions ranging up to 99 parts by weight of either component to 1 part by weight of the other. Preferred amounts are from about 60 to about 90 percent by weight lactam monomer and from about 10 to about 40 percent by weight acyllactam functional polymer.However, from about 40 to about 70 percent by weight acyllactam functional polymer can be employed to make elastomeric block polymers. Under typical reaction conditions the polymerization is essentially quantitative, i.e. essentially all of the lactam and. .a cyllactam functional polymer is incorporated in the nylon block polymer..In the preparation of nylon block polymers it may be desirable to conduct the polymerization reaction in the presence of one or more other materials conventionally incorporated in nylon block polymers. . Such materials would. include fillers, plasticizers, flame retardants, stabilizers, fibrous reinforcing agents such as asbestos and glass fiber, dyes and pigmenting materials. Such materials may be introduced ln the materials of Formulae I a , b or III a , and. b , taught herein, or otherwise. The following examples will illxlstrate the present invention in greater detail. These examples are for illustrative purposes only and are not to be construed as limiting the scope of the invention which would include various other modifications1 Unless otherwise indicated herein, all parts, percentages, ratios and the like are by weight. Examples 25, 26, 27, 46 and 47 are Examples of.the present.invention, The other Examples are derived from our above mentionedEuropean Patent Application, and are included to show the effects of various features for instance polyether segment molecular weights on the properties of the functional materials and nylon block copolymers.The observed effects are also obtainable with the functional materials and nylon block copolymer of this invention. EXAMPLE 1A. Preparation of Acid Halide Functional Material A solution of 48.2 grams .049 equivalents Pluracol GP 3030 polyoxypropylene triol, Mol. Wt.about 3,000 in 40 cc. toluene was refluxed to remove essentially all water by azeotrope. The mixture was cooled to room temperature, and 9.45 grams 0.103 equivalents of crude adipoyl chloride was added. The solution was heated to reflux. During reflux hydrogen chloride gas was evolved rapidly. The mixture was refluxed one hour. This reaction resulted in the hydroxyl sites of the polyoxypropylene triol being functionalized by the adipoyl chloride to form the tri acid chloride functional derivative.B. Preparation of Acyllactam Functional Material To the resulting reaction product prepared in A. above was added 169 milliliters mls. dry molten caprolactam. The mixture was refluxed. Reflux pot temperature rose to 1850C. Hydrogen chloride evolution occurred at a moderate rate. The course of reaction was monitored by periodic determination of residual acidity. After one and one half hours reflux at 185 C.m acidity was .077 milli equivalents gram meq. gm. . The solution was cooled and was allowed to set overnight. An additional 45 mls. toluene was added and the solution again refluxed this time at 1400 pot temperature. After two hours additional reflux total reflux time three and one half hours acidity was .042 meq. gm. when titrated to phenolphthalein end point with 0.1 normal sodium hydroxide.Additional reflux period of three and one half hours did not change this acidity. This reaction resulted in the chlorine atoms in the product prepared in A. being displaced by caprolactam groups to form the tri acyllactam functional derivative.C. Preparation of Nylon Block Polymer To the reaction product prepared in B. above an additional 11.8 grams Pluracol GP 3030 were added.Toluene was stripped off under vacuum, and then 25 cc.caprolactam removed by distillation. The resulting solution was cooled to 75 0C. and 84 mls. of 0.4 molar bromomagnesium caprolactam in caprolactam was injected under vacuum. The mixture was stirred vigorously for 20 seconds, the vacuum released to nitrogen and the mixture poured into a 130 0C. Teflon lined mold. The material was set into a firm polymer in two minutes. After an additional two minutes the polymer was removed from the mold and cut into specimens for physical testing. The resulting polymer was a nylon block copolymer which contained about 20 poly oxypropylene and which exhibited the following properties determined in accordance with the procedures described hereinafter for Examples 29 51 Tensile Strength 5960 psi 41 MPa Tensile Elongation 30 Tear Strength 1280 pli 224 x 103 N m Flexural Modulus 157,000 psi 1082.5 MPa Notched Izod Impact 6.6 ft. lbs. in . 352 J m The following polyols and acid halides were employed in the preparation of additional acid halide functional polymers, acyllactam functional polymers and nylon block polymers TABLE A Polyols Designation DescriptionNiax 11 34 NIAX Ethylene Oxide capped poly oxypropylene triol Molec. Wt. about 4,800 .Pluracol P 380 P380 Poly oxypropylene triol Molec. Wt. about 6,760 .Pluracol GP 3030 GP Poly oxypropylene triol Molec. Wt. about 3,000 .Pluracol P494 P494 Poly oxypropylene tetrol Molec. Wt. about 4,750 .Carbowax 4000 CARB Poly oxyethylene diol Molec. Wt. about 3,700 .R 45 M R45 Poly butadiene diol Molec. Wt. about 2,800 .Polyol Mix MIX 50 50 by mole mixture of Niax 11 34 and GP 3030.Q4 3667 Q4 Silicone polycarbinol.Tetrol 9000 TET 9 Ethylene Oxide capped poly oxypropylene tetrol Molec. Wt. about 9,000 .Triol 8000 TRI 8 Ethylene Oxide capped poly oxypropylene triol Molec. Wt. about 8,000 . TABLE B ACID HALIDES DesignationTerephthaloyl Chloride TEREAdipoyl Chloride ADIPIsophthaloyl Chloride ISOPISOP TERE ISO TER MIxture 50 50 Wt. Oxydibenzoyl Chloride OBCPhenylphosphonyl Chloride PPCSulfuryl Chloride SCPhosphorus Chloride POC Oxalyl Chloride OXA EXAMPLE 2 Preparation ofAeid Halide Functional Material A solution of 96.0 grams 0.02 mole of Niax 11 34 in 237 mls. of cyclohexane was dried by removing 27 mls. of the water azeotrope during a half hour reflux period. The solution was cooled to 21 0C. and 12.18 grams 0.06 mole of terephthaloyl chloride TERE were added with stirring. A solution of 6.08 grams 0.06 mole of triethylamine in 20 milliliters of cyclohexane was added over 5 minutes.The temperature rose from 21 C. to 260C., and a white precipitate formed. The solution was heated to reflux and was cooled immediately to 10 C. and filtered through Celite . Removal of the solvent under vacuum at 80 C. left 102.48 grams of a yellow syrup. The IR spectrum showed ester and acid chloride carbonyl absorption at 1745 cm. 1 and 1800 cm. 1, respectively, and no hydroxyl absorption, demonstrating the formation of the desired acid halide functional polymer. EXAMPLE 3A. Preparation of Acid Halide Functional Material A solution containing 48.0 grams 0.01 mole of Niax 11 34 in 77 mls. of cyclohexane was dried by removing 27 mls. of the water azeotrope during a half hour refliux. The polyol solution was cooled to 50 C., and 6.09 grams 0.03 mols of solid terephthaloyl chloride TERE were added with stirring. A solution of 3.04 grams 0.03 mole of dry triethylamine in 20 mls. of cyclohexane was added over a period of 10 minutes. The temperature rose from 47.5 C. to 49 C. The resultingcreamy slurry was stirred and heated at reflux for a half hour to complete formation of the acid halide functional polymer.B. Preparation ofAcyIlactam Functional Material The reaction mixture from A. above was cooled to 42 C. and 4.0 grams 0.035 mole of solid caprolactam were added with stirring. A solution of 3.54 grams 0.035 mole of triethylamine in 20 mls. of cyclohexane was added over a period of seven minutes.The temperature rose 42 C. to 530C. An additional 60 mls. of cyclohexane were added, and the mixture was heated at reflux with stirring for a half hour.Cooling to 11 0C. and filtration through Celite left a clear, colorless filtrate. Removal of the solvent at 80 C. under vacuum for three hours yielded 52.26 grams of a clear, yellow syrup. The acidity of the resulting acyllactam functional polymeric material was 0.028 meq. gm. EXAMPLE 4 Preparation of Acyllactam Functional Material A solution of 96.0 grams 0.02 mole of Niax 11 34 and 7.0 grams 0.062 mole of caprolactam in 227 mls. of cyclohexane was dried by refluxing for an hour, while 27 mls. of the water azeotrope were removed. The solution was cooled to 15 C., and 12.18 grams 0.06 mole of terephthaloyl chloride TERE were added with stirring. A solution of 12.66 grams 0.125 mole of triethylamine in 40 mls. of cyclohexane was added over a five minute period. The temperature rose from 15 C. to 30 C., and a white precipitate formed. The mixture was heated to reflux and kept there for one hour then, 1.5 grams of methanol were added and refluxing was continued for another hour. The mixture was cooled to 10 C. and was filtered through Celite .Removal of the solvent under vacuum at 80 C. over three hours left 93.93 grams of an amber syrup. The acidity of the resulting acyllactam functional polymeric material was 0.032 meq. gm. EXAMPLES 5 28 Additional Examples 5 28 were carried out substantially in. accordance with previous Example 3 A and B or. Example 4 except for the particular materials and amounts thereof which were employed.The type and amounts of materials and method of preparation Ex. 3 or Ex. 4 for each of Examples 5 28 are shown in Table C. In some of the Examples run in accordance with Example 3, the reflux in Step B was extended beyond 30 minutes, up to 3 hours in some cases. Additionally, in some of the Examples run in accordance with Example 3 a small amount of methanol or of anhydrous sodium carbonate was added after 30 to 60 minutes of reflux in Step B for the purpose of adjusting the acidity of the final product. For some of the Examples run in accordance with Example 4 an equivalent amount of sodium carbonate was used instead of the methanol added during the reflux step. The acidity of the resulting acyllactam functional material was between about 0.028 and 0.3 meq. gm. for each of these examples. TABLE CExample Polyol Moles Acid Halide Moles Caprolactam, TEA, Method Moles Moles 5 NIAX 0.01 TERE 0.03 0.031 0.06 EX. 3 6 GP 0.01 TERE 0.03 0.035 0.065 EX. 3 7 NIAX 0.02 TERE 0.06 0.062 0.125 EX. 3 8 GP 0.01 TERE 0.03 0.035 0.065 EX. 3 9 NIAX 0.01 ADIP 0.03 0.035 0.065 EX. 3 10 NIAX 0.03 LSOP 0.06 0.062 0.125 EX. 3 11 P494 0.02 ADIP 0.08 0.082 0.162 EX. 3 12 P494 0.015 TERE 0.06 0.061 0.121 EX. 3 13 NIAX 0.02 ISO TER 0.06 0.065 0.125 EX. 3 14 MIX 0.02 TERE 0.06 0.065 0.125 EX. 3 15 CARB 0.02 TERE 0.04 0.045 0.085 EX. 3 16 NIAX 0.60 TERE 1.80 1.95 3.75 EX. 3 17 R 45 0.042 TERE 0.088 0.095 0.183 EX. 3 TABLE C Cont d.Example Polyol Moles Acid Halide Moles Caprolactam, TEA, Method Moles Moles 18 TRI 8 0.02 TERE 0.06 0.062 0.125 EX. 4 19 P230 0.02 TERE 0.06 0.062 0.125 EX. 4 20 TET 9 0.02 TERE 0.08 0.082 0.162 EX. 4 21 NIAX 0.02 TRIM 0.06 0.13 0.18 EX. 3 22 NIAX 0.02 OXA 0.06 0.062 0.125 EX. 4 23 Q4 0.06 TERE 0.06 0.062 0.125 EX. 4 24 NIAX 0.03 TERE 0.075 0.062 0.155 EX. 3 25 NIAX 0.03 PPC 0.09 0.091 0.185 EX. 3 26 NIAX 0.03 POC 0.09 0.182 0.272 EX. 3 27 NIAX 0.03 SC 0.09 0.091 0.185 EX. 3 28 NIAX 0.03 OBC 0.09 0.091 0.185 EX. 3 EXAMPLES 29 51 Preparation of Nylon Block Polymers Nylon block polymers were prepared from acyllactam functional polymers prepared in Examples 5 28 by either a hand casting polymerization method HC or a reaction injection molding polymerization method RIM .These methods are described below.A. Hand Casting of Nylon Block Polymers Examples 29 47 . In a 500 ml. flask equipped with stirrer, thermocouple and nitrogen inlet were charged caprolactam and a prepolymer which was an acyllactam functional polymer prepared in accordance with one of the earlier Examples 5 28. The specific prepolymer example and the amount of materials employed in each of Examples 29 47 is shown in Table RD. In each case 1.5 grams of FlectolR H an antioxidant sold by Monsanto Company which is polymerized 1,2 dihydro 2,2,4 trimethylquinoline was added to the charge. The mixture was heated under vacuum to distill 25 mls. caprolactam and then cooled to 750C. Separately prepared was a catalyst solution which was a solution of bromomagnesium caprolactam in caprolactam. The catalyst solution was generally prepared by adding a solution of 3 molar ethyl magnesium bromide in diethyl ether to dry caprolactam followed by thorough degassing under vacuum. Catalyst solutions of various molarities were prepared. For example, a 0.5 molar bromomagnesium caprolactam catalyst solution was prepared by adding 17 mls. of 3 molar ethyl magnesium bromide in diethyl ether to 100 grams of dry caprolactam with degassing as stated above. The molarity of the catalyst solution employed for specific examples is indicated in Table D. To the above prepared prepolymer solution was injected a specified amount of catalyst solution under vacuum. The specific amount of catalyst solution employed for the Examples 29 47 is shown inTable D. After stirring vigorously for fifty seconds the vacuum was released to nitrogen and the catalyzed mixture was poured into a Teflon lined mold heated to 130 C. After 5 to 15 minutes in the mold the resulting solid nylon block polymer was removed. The polymerization of the prepolymer and caprolactam was essentially quantitative in the formation of the nylon block polymer. Specimens were cut for testing. TABLE D HC EXAMPLES Prepolymer Amounts Grams CatalystExample Example Prepolymer Caprolactam Molarity Amt.,mls.29 5 46.2 148 0.5 35 30 6 33.7 173 0.5 30 31 7 74 101 0.5 30 32 8 30.4 114 0.5 26 33 9 53.1 176 0.5 36 34 10 44.4 138 0.5 38 35 10 44.4 138 0.5 38 36 11 76.8 229 0.5 40 Example 35 also contained 71 gms. P117B 1 16 milled glass fiber which resulted in a 25 wt. glass reinforced nylon block polymer. TABLE D Cont d. Prepolymer Amounts Grams CatalystExample Example Prepolymer Caprolactam Molarity Amt , mls.37 12 59.05 148 0.5 56 38 13 94.65 260 0.5 83 39 14 75.7 300 0.5 45 40 15 55.8 173 0.5 32 41 16 60 196 0.5 30 42 21 62 178 0.5 35 43 22 55 165 0.5 55 44 23 61 134 0.5 80 45 24 55.8 169 0.6 50 46 25 57 148 0.6 70 47 26 59 149 0.6 67 B. Reaction Injection Molding of Nylon Block Polymers Examples 48 5 . In a 500 ml. flask equipped with stirrer, thermocouple and nitrogen inlet were charged caprolactam and a prepolymer which was an acyllactam functional polymer prepared in accordance with earlierExamples 5 29. The specific prepolymer example and the amount of materials employed in preparing the prepolymer solutions in each of Examples 48 51 is shown in Table E. To each charge was added 1.5 grams of Flectol R H. The mixture was dried by heating under vacuum to distill 25 mls. caprolactam and then cooled to 75 C. Separately a catalyst solution consisting of bromomagnesium caprolactam in caprolactam was prepared by adding a solution of 3 molar ethyl magnesium bromide in diethyl ether to dry caprolactam followed by thorough degassing under vacuum. For example, a 0.26 molar bromomagnesium caprolactam catalyst solution was prepared by adding 17 mls. of 3 molar ethyl magnesium bromide in diethyl ether to 200 grams of dry caprolactam. Catalyst solutions of varying molarities were employed in the Examples as indicated in Table E. A reaction injection molding was made by pumping the above solutions into a closed mold beated to 130 C. Equal amounts by volume of the prepolymer solution and the catalyst solution were combined by means of gear pumping, except for Example 48 in which the prepolymer solution and catalyst solution were combined by the same means in a ratio of of 3.4 1 by volume prepolymer solution catalyst solution .Mixing of the combined stream prior to injection into the mold was performed by means of an in line 6 inch by one quarter inch Kenics static mixer. The mold was filled with the mixture and the resulting solid nylon block polymer was removed from the mold at about 2 minutes after the start of injection. The polymerization of the prepolymer and caprolactam was essentially quantitative in the formation of the nylon block polymer. Specimens were cut for testing. TABLE E RIM EXAMPLES Prepolymer Amounts Charge Prepolymer Solution CatalystExample Example Prepolymer gms Caprolactam gms Molarity 48 17 60 209 0.5 49 18 65 110 0.26 50 19 66 109 0.26 51 20 66 109 0.3 Amount charged 25 mls. was removed in drying step. The nylon block polymers prepared either by hand casting or reaction injection molding in Examples 29 51 were tested for various properties substantially in accordance with the following procedures Tensile Strength ASTM D1708 units are pounds per square inch psi or megapascals MPa 1. Tear Strength . ASTM D1004 units are pounds force per linear inch pli or newtons per meter N m . Flexural Modulus ASTM D790 units are pounds per square inch psi or megapascals MPa 1. Notched IzodImpact ASTM D256 units are foot pounds per inch notch ft.lbs. in. or joules per meter J m . Test results for Examples 29 51 are provided in Table F. Tensile elongation to break determined in accordance with ASTM D 1708 for these nylon block polymers was generally greater than 50 and in some cases greater than 200 . TABLE F NYLON BLOCK POLYMER PROPERTIESPolymer Tensile Tear Flexural IzodExample Strength Strength Modulus Impact psi MPa pli N mx10 3 psi x 10 3 MPa ft.1bs. in. J m 29 6060 41.7 1660 291 200 1379 11.8 630 30 5930 40.8 1410 247 222 1531 12.0 641 31 6190 42.6 219 1510 11.3 603 32 6570 45.3 167 1151 9.4 502 33 6030 41.3 218 1503 8.9 475 34 6060 41.7 185 1276 19.9 1062 35 8060 55.5 334 2303 3.3 176 36 6740 46.4 1570 275 223 1538 3.6 192 37 6300 43.4 1550 271 250 1724 10.5 560 38 6020 41.5 1580 277 215 1482 11.4 609 39 6790 46.8 240 1655 5.1 272 40 5780 39.8 183 1262 2.5 133 Polymer was reinforced with 25 wt. P117B 1 16 milled fiber Owens Corning . TABLE F Cont dPolymer Tensile Tear Flexural IzodExample Strength Strength Modulus Impact psi MPa pli N mx10 3 psi x 10 3 MPa ft.1bs. in. J m 41 6810 46.9 1240 217 213 1469 12.0 641 42 6100 42.0 1350 236 189 1303 8.0 427 43 5270 36.3 800 140 58 400 22.0 1174 44 6260 43.1 1200 210 228 1572 3.0 160 45 6520 44.9 1290 226 178 1227 12.1 646 46 5990 41.3 1430 250 211 1455 1.8 96 47 6100 42.0 1360 238 223 1538 1.8 96 48 6680 46.0 1330 233 210 1448 7.8 416 49 6530 45.0 1140 200 129 889 18.3 977 50 6950 47.9 1290 226 173 1193 19.9 1062 51 6740 46.4 1160 203 160 1103 17.6 EXAMPLES 52 117 Examples 52 117 demonstrate the unexpected results exhibited by nylon block copolymers prepared from acid halide functional or acyllactam functional material containing either polyether segments having minimum molecular weights of about 2,000 or polyester segments containing polyether segments having minimum molecular weights of about 2,000.A. PrepaTation Acyllactam Functional Materials Acid halide functional materials were prepared from the polyethers listed below in Table G.The preparation of these acid halide functional materials involved preparing solutions of the desired polyether and terephthaloyl chloride in tetrahydrofuran. A sufficient quantity of an acid scavenger, triethylamine, was added to each solution, so as to precipitate out of the solutions white amine hydrochloride. The molar quantities of the particular polyether PE and terephthaloyl chloride TERE used for each solution are shown in Table H. For each particular polyether different acid halide functional materials were prepared. In each case, acid halide functional materials containing polyether segments and acid halide functional materials containing polyester segments comprising the polyether segment were prepared. These polyester segments were formed by the linkage of polyether segments with terephthaloyl chloride residues. Acid halide functional materials containing polyether segments were prepared from mole ratios of 2 1 for diol derivatives and 3 1 for triol derivatives, while those materials containing polyester segments were prepared from mole ratios of 4 3 for diol derivatives and 5 2 for triol derivatives. These acid halide to polyether mole ratios are listed in the following tables under the heading AH PE. Batches of acyllactam functional materials were formed by adding to each solution of acid halide functional material a solution of caprolactam and triethylamine antacid scavenger in tetrahydrofuran.The molar quantity of caprolactam used for each batch is shown below in Table H. The addition of the caprolactam solution to the solution of acid halide functional material was accomplished over a period of about 7 minutes. Each solution was heated to reflux at 76 0C and maintained as such for about 1 hour. The solutions were then allowed to cool and about 100 ml. of tetrahydrofuran was added to each. Each batch was then filtered and washed with more tetrahydrofuran about 2 washings of 75 ml. . The remaining tetrahydrofuran was then removed under vacuum at 80 C over a period of about 3 hours. The IR spectrum of Batch 1 showed no hydroxyl absorption but a strong ester carbonyl absorption with a weaker amide carbonyl absorption.This confirmed the preparation of the acyllactam functional material. TABLE G Polyethers Designation DescriptionPluracol P1010 P1010 poly oxypropylene diol Molec. wt. about 1,000 Voranol 2010 2010 poly oxypropylene diol Molec. wt. about 2,000 PPG 3025 PPG3025 poly oxypropylene diol Molec. wt. about 3,000 PPG 4025 PPG4025 poly oxypropylene diol Molec. wt. about 4,000 Thanol SF 3950 SF3950 ethylene oxide capped poly oxypropylene diol Molec. wt. about 3,500 with the functionality of the composition being about 2.1 Voranol CP2070 CP2070 poly oxypropylene triol Molec. wt. about 725 Voranol CP1500 CP1500 poly oxypropylene triol Molec. wt. about 1,600 Pluracol GP3030 GP poly oxypropylene triol Molec. wt. about 3,000 Niax 11 34 NIAX ethylene oxide capped poly oxypropylene triol Molec. wt. about 4,800 Thanol SF6503 SF6503 ethylene oxide capped poly oxypropylene triol Molec. wt. about 6,200 Pluracol P 380 P380 ethylene oxide capped poly oxypropylene triol Molec. wt. about 6,760 TABLE HBatch Polyether PE TERE CaprolactamNo. Polyether AH PE Moles Moles Moles 1 P1010 2 1 0.468 0.936 0.973 2 4 3 0.468 0.624 0.327 3 V2010 2 1 0.251 0.502 0.504 4 4 3 0.251 0.335 0.177 5 PPG 3025 2 1 0.171 0.342 0.354 6 4 3 0.171 0.228 0.124 7 PPG 4025 2 1 0.120 0.240 0.242 8 4 3 0.120 0.160 0.097 9 SF 3950 2 1 0.152 0.303 0.318 10 4 3 0.152 0.202 0.106 11 CP 2070 2 1 0.450 1.350 1.360 12 4 3 0.450 1.125 0.909 13 CP 1500 2 1 0.250 0.750 0.7575 14 4 3 0.250 0.625 0.555 15 GP 2 1 0.160 0.480 0.485 TABLE H Continued Batch Polyether PE TERE CaprolactamNo.Polyether AH PE Moles Moles Moles 16 5 2 0.150 0.375 0.303 17 NIAX 3 1 0.11 0.33 0.333 18 5 2 0.179 0.445 0.361 19 SF 6503 3 1 0.08 0.24 0.2424 20 5 2 0.08 0.20 0.162 21 P 380 3 1 0.08 0.24 0.2424 22 5 2 0.08 0.20 0.162 23 3 1 0.08 0.18 0.1818 B. Preparation of Nylon Block Copolymers Nylon block copolymers were prepared by reacting each batch of acyllactam functional material with caprolactam in the presence of catalyst, caprolactam magnesium bromide. The method used for combining these materials was a reaction injection molding. This technique is well known in the art and involves directing a stream of acyllactam functional materials dissolved in caprolactam and a stream of the caprolactam magnesium bromide catalyst dissolved in caprolactam into a heated mold. A catalyst solution was prepared for use for in preparing each nylon block copolymer example, except Examples 84 and 87, by charging a 3,000 ml.flask, which was equipped with a stirrer, thermocouple controlled heater and nitrogen inlet and a distillation head, with 1,650 grams of caprolactam.The caprolactam was dried by distilling off 50 grams from the flask under a vacuum using an oil pump to provide a vacuum under 1 mm. at a pot temperature of 125 130 C. The vacuum was released to a nitrogen atmosphere and the flask with the caprolactam cooled down to 75 C. All atmospheric pressure operations were performed under nitrogen. Once the caprolactam was dried, 120 ml. of a 3 molar solution of ethyl magnesium bromide in diethyl ether was added over a 10 minute period while maintaining vigorous agitation.The solution temperature was maintained at 1000C. The evolved ethane and ether were removed by degassing under a vacuum less than 1 mm. for an hour at 900C.The catalyst solution was maintained at 90 C. and 200 ml. portions were drawn off for use to prepare each sample. The prepared catalyst solution had a molarity of .225. Prepolymer solutions were prepared, except for Examples 84 and 87, by dissolving a prepolymer, which was an acyllactam functional material prepared in accordance with earlier Batches 1 23, in caprolactam. To each sample solution 0.5 grams ofFlectol H antioxidant was added. The prepolymer solutions were dried by distilling off 25 ml. of caprolactam. The sample solutions were cooled to 85 C. In Example No. 84, the catalyst solution was prepared according to the procedure described but using only 225 grams of caprolactam which was dried by distilling off 25 grams. Nineteen 19 ml. of a 3 molar solution grams of ethyl magnesium bromide was added to the caprolactam according to the procedure described above. The catalyst solution was then maintained at 90 C. The acyllactam functional material for Example 84 was not dissolved in caprolactam. Instead, 181 grams of acyllactam functional material was injection molded so as to obtain a 30 by weight of polyether in the final nylon block copolymer. 1.5 grams of Flectol H antioxidant was added to the acyllactam functional material prior to injection molding. In Example No. 87, the catalyst was prepared in the same manner and quantities as described above for Example 84 with the exception that 16 ml. of a 3 molar solution of ethyl magnesium bromide was used. Again the acyllactam solution was not dissolved in caprolactam but 159 grams of the acyllactam functional material of Batch No. 12 was used. The specific prepolymer batch number and the amount of prepolymer and caprolactam employed in preparing the prepolymer solutions for each ofExamples 52 117 is shown in Table J. TABLE J Polyether Prepolymer Amount Charge Prepolymer SolutionExample in Final NBC Batch No. Prepolymer gms Caprolactam gms 52 10 1 43 132 53 20 1 87 88 54 30 1 130 45 55 10 2 37 138 56 20 2 74 101 57 30 2 111 64 58 10 3 38 138 59 20 3 75 100 60 30 3 113 63 61 10 4 34 141 62 20 4 68 107 63 30 4 102 73 64 10 5 35 140 65 20 5 70 105 TABLE J Polyether Prepolymer Amount Charge Prepolymer SolutionExample in Final NBC Batch No. Prepolymer gms Caprolactam gms 66 30 5 105 702 67 10 6 33 142 68 20 6 650 110 69 30 6 98 772 70 10 7 33 142 71 20 7 67 108 72 30 7 100 753 73 10 8 32 143 74 20 8 64 111 75 30 8 96 791 76 10 9 34 141 77 20 9 68 107 78 30 9 102 73 79 10 10 32 143 TABLE J Polyether Prepolymer Amount Charge Prepolymer SolutionExample in Final NBC Batch No.Prepolymer gms Caprolactam gms 80 20 10 65 110 81 30 10 97 78 82 10 11 60 115 83 20 11 121 54 84 30 11 181 85 10 12 53 122 86 20 12 106 693 87 30 12 159 88 10 13 43 132 89 20 13 87 88 90 30 13 130 45 91 10 14 41 134 92 20 14 81 94 93 30 14 122 53 94 10 15 38 138 TABLE J CONT d. Polyether Prepolymer Amount Charge Prepolymer SolutionExample in Final NBC Batch No. Prepolymer gms Caprolactam gms 95 20 15 75 100 96 30 15 113 63 97 10 16 36 139 98 20 16 71 104 99 30 16 107 68 100 10 17 34 141 101 20 17 69 106 102 30 17 103 72 103 10 18 33 142 104 20 18 67 108 105 30 18 100 75 106 10 19 34 141 107 20 19 67 108 108 30 19 101 74 TABLE J CONT d. Polyether Prepolymer Amount Charge Prepolymer SolutionExample in Final NBC Batch No. Prepolymer gms Caprolactam gms 109 10 20 33 142 110 20 20 65 110 111 30 20 98 77 112 10 21 33 142 113 20 23 67 108 114 30 23 100 75 115 10 22 32 143 116 20 22 65 110 117 30 22 97 78 Amount charged 25 ml. was removed in drying step. The nylon block copolymers in Examples 52 83, 86, and 88 117 were prepared by pumping the prepolymer solutions and the catalyst solution in a 1 1 stream volume ratio into a closed mold heated to 140 C. having an internal cavity of 20.32 cm. x 20.32 cm. x 3.175 cm. Examples 84 and 87 were prepared by pumping the prepolymer and catalyst solution in a 1.52 1 and 1.13 1 stream volume ratio, respectively, into a similar mold. Mixing of the combined streams prior to injection into the mold was performed by means of an in line 4 inch to one quarter inch Kenics static mixer.. Examples 52 117 were then tested to determine their impact and flexibility properties substantially in accordance with the following procedures Flexural Modulus, Notched Izod Impact which were described above andDriven Dart , Procedure described in November 1974 SPE Retec Bulletin by V. A. Matonis 15.88 mm. 5 8 in. diameter Dart driven at 111.76 m. min. 4400 in. min. impacted against a 3.2 mm. 1 8 in. by 50.8 mm. 2 in. diameter disc of the specific NBC which was held against a 31.75 mm. 1 1 4 in. sample ring at a temperature 29 C. 206F. . Energy measurements made with a Nicolet 109 Digital Oscilliscope units are joules J or inches per pounds in. lbs. The test results are provided in Tables K 1 K 4 below. The examples are arranged according to polyether type either diol or triol derivatives , percent by weight of polyether in the nylon block copolymer, and by the AH PE ratio to highlight the effect of molecular weight upon impact properties. TABLE K 1 Flexural Izod DrivenExample Modulus Impact DartNo. MPa psi x10 3 J m ft. lbs in. J in. lbs. Diol Derivatives 2 1 AH PE Ratio 10 Polyether 52 2268 329 21 0.4 0.3 2.6 58 1517 220 64 1.2 2.1 18.7 63 1972 286 69 1.3 0.9 7.9 70 2462 357 91 1.7 76 1855 269 133 2.5 8.3 75.0 20 Polyether 53 1069 155 16 0.3 0.1 1.1 59 1172 170 155 2.9 2.7 24.6 65 1482 215 133 2.5 1.8 16.4 71 979 142 294 5.5 2.6 23.6 77 1248 181 731 13.7 13.7 123.1 TABLE K 1 Cont d. 30 Polyether 54 310 45 16 0.3 .01 0.5 60 1220 177 475 8.9 7.9 70.8 66 614 89 502 9.4 8.5 76.1 72 455 66 384 7.2 12.1 109.0 78 545 79 598 11.2 52.3 470.2 TABLE K 2 Flexural Izod DrivenExample Modulus Impact DartNo. MPa psi x 10 J m ft. lbs in. J in. lbs. Triol Derivatives 3 1 AH PE Ratio 10 Polyether 82 2165 314 16 0.3 0.1 1.2 88 2144 311 75 1.4 0.6 5.5 94 1889 274 80 1.5 2.9 26.1 100 1441 209 155 2.9 8.4 75.7 106 1717 249 342 6.4 19.1 172.0 112 1703 247 352 6.6 8.2 73.9 20 Polyether 83 331 48 5 0.1 .1 1.1 89 924 134 48 0.9 0.1 2.1 95 1331 193 774 14.5 23.8 214.0 101 1020 148 961 18.0 59.2 531.8 107 1096 159 838 15.7 30.7 275.4 113A 745 108 715 13.4 55.7 500.3 113B 731 106 34.4 308.8 TABLE K 2 Cont d. 30 Polyether 84 Poor Reactivity 90 407 59 165 3.1 0.1 0.8 96 414 60 630 11.8 20.5 184.1 102 415 60.2 667 12.5 22.3 200.3 108 421 61 619 11.6 26.7 239.9 114 393 57 582 10.9 26.3 236.2 TABLE K 3 Flexural Izod DrivenExample Modulus Impact DartNo. MPa psi x10 3 J m ft. lbs in. J in. lbs. Diol Derivatives 4 3 AH PE Ratio 10 Polyether 55 1848 268 48 0.9 2.3 20.5 61 2517 363 48 0.9 67 2213 321 59 1.1 73 779 113 32 0.6 79 1951 283 64 1.2 1.3 12.0 20 Polyether 56 1254 182 101 1.9 2.4 21.8 62 1282 186 107 2.0 5.9 53.1 68 1400 203 160 3.0 16.9 151.9 74 1034 149 214 4.0 9.6 86.3 80 1220 177 657 12.3 29.6 266.1 TABLE K 3 Cont d.30 Polyether 57 752 109 128 2.4 2.1 18.9 63 703 102 673 12.6 23.0 207.0 69 1069 155 731 13.7 34.5 310.0 75 455 66 139 2.6 6.2 55.7 81 421 61 432 8.1 36.4 372.2 TABLE K 4 Flexural Izod DrivenExample Modulus Impact DartNo. MPa psi x 10 3 J m ft. lbs in. J in. lbs. Triel Derivatives 5 2 AH PE Ratio 18 Polyether 85 2082 302 48 0.9 2.4 2.1 91 1641 238 101 1.9 2.7 24.0 97 1531 222 96 1.8 4.0 35.8 103 2006 291 96 1.8 3.1 28.3 109 1696 246 246 4.6 10.6 95.3 115 1607 233 128 2.4 4.0 35.5 20 Polyether 86 565 82 11 0.2 .01 0.7 92 1103 160 256 4.8 .02 4.3 98 1227 178 230 4.3 10.8 96.9 104 1145 166 731 13.7 34.2 307.2 110 1041 151 747 14.0 50.1 449.9 116 1207 175 747 14.0 29.3 263.4 TABLE K 4 Cont d. 30 Polyether 87 283 41 21 0.4 0.1 0.4 93 452 65.5 470 8.8 23.0 5.0 99 556 80.6 785 14.7 34.5 171.5 105 607 88 689 12.9 6.2 212.4 111 503 75 662 12.4 36.4 285.0 117 448 65 523 9.8 28.2 253.5 As indicated in Table K l K 4 , the impact property test results, i.e. Izod Impact andDriven Dart, of nylon block copolymers containing polyether segments or polyester segments having polyether segments exhibit unexpected results when the polyether segments have a minimum molecular weight of about 2,000. For example, see Examples 52 57 and 82 87 which contained polyether segments with molecular weights of 1,000 and 725, respectively, generally exhibited significantly lower impact properties than the remaining examples wherein the molecular weights were at about 2,000 or more.Examples 89 90 and 91 93exhibited better impact properties and were prepared from polyether segments derived from triols having a minimum molecualr weight of about 1,600 which is within the preferred minimum molecular weight of about 2,000. The effect is more apparent at polyether contents greater than 10 weight percent of the nylon block copolymer, most likely due to the greater influence of the polyamide segments than the polyether segments at such low levels of polyether in the nylon block copolymer. Furthermore, as indicated in Table K, the impact property test results of nylon block copolymers containing polyether segments and polyester segments having polyether segments, exhibit unexpected results when the polyethers were derived from triols as compared diols, see Examples 94 96 and 97 99 for triol derivatives and Examples 64 66 and 67 69 for diol derivatives. Both the triols and diols utilized had molecular weights of about 3,000. Also as stated above, a minimum amount of cross linking in the composition results in better properties. This is seen by comparing the impact properties of those nylon block copolymers prepared from PPG 4025 Examples 70 72 and 73 75 with those prepared from Thanol SF 3950 Examples 76 78 and 79 81 . Thanol SF 3950 was a composition having a functionality of about 2.1, thus allowing for some minimal cross linking. Examples l8 122 Examples 118 122 were prepared to demonstrate the effect of specific R groups had upon impact and other properties of nylon block copolymers made from prepolymers containing such R groups hereinabove described see Formula I a . As discussed above, preferred R groups are hydrocarbon groups and hydrocarbon groups having ether linkages which provide at least three successively bonded elementary atoms between any two carbonyl groups bonded to R. Acyllactam functional materials were made by reacting a polyether NIAX with various acid halides, as specified in Table L below. Some of the acid halides used i.e. O phthalic acid chloride and fumaric acid chloride formed R groups that provided less than 3 successively bonded atoms between the two carbonyl groups. The remaining halides forming R groups others providing 3 or more successively bonded atoms between 2 carbonyl groups. The resulting acid halide functional materials were then reacted with caprolactam the specific process of preparing these materials is similar to the process described hereinabove and will not be discussed in detail herein to form acyyllactam functional materials. These acyllactam functional materials were blended into caprolactam and then reacted with a catalyst caprolactam solution prepared according to process similar to the process described above to form nylon block copolymers having 20 weight percent polyether content. The resulting nylon block copolymers were subjected to the following tests Driven Dart described above andAcetone Extractables Percent weight loss after 24 hours in a Soxhlet Extractor. TABLE L Driven AcetoneExample Acid Dart ExtractableNo. Halide J in. lbs. 118 m phthalic acid chloride 35.25 316.7 1.64 119 p phthalic acid chloride 15.70 141.1 1.76 120 o phthalic acid chloride .200 1.8 3.38 121 sebacic acid chloride 35.08 315.2 1.71 122 fumaric acid chloride .122 1.1 34.0 As seen from Table L, the impact properties Driven Dart of a nylon block copolymer are improved when the R group provides at least three successively bonded atoms between any two carbonyl groups bonded to the R group, see Examples 118, 119, and 121. While the preferred embodiments of the present invention have been described and illustrated, various modifications or substitutions can be made thereto without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly, it is to be understood that the present invention has been described by way4 of illustration and not limitation. Reference is also made to our European Patent Application filed herewith under Agents Reference 08 21 1552A EP, which describes and claims nylon block copolymers as described in our other European application referred to above and filed herewith under Agents Reference 08 21 1223A EP.