# Laser scalpel including a safety device.

## Abstract
A laser scalpel includes a safety device which comprises a group of detectors 20 to 28 and a signal processing system 30 which raises an alarm 31,32 and renders the scalpel safe. The group of detectors includes a grounding disconnection detector 20 which monitors the connection between the laser scalpel power source 5 and earth, and a current leakage detector 21 which monitors current leakage between an optical duct 9 for the laser beam and a casing 10 . The signal processing system 30 receives signals emitted by the two detectors 21, and 22 and outputs signals to operate the alarm system 31, 32 and a laser power source breaker 13 whenever either of the two detectors 20, 21 detects a fault.

## Claims
C L A I M S 1. A laser scalpel including a laser 1 , a laser power source 5 , an optical duct 9 for a laser beam, and a casing 10 characterised in that it includes a safety device which comprises a group of detectors including a grounding disconnection detector 20 which monitors the electrical connection between the laser scalpel power source 5 and earth and a current leakage detector 21 which monitors current leakage between the optical duct 9 and the casing 10 , a laser power source breaker 13 , an alarm system 31,32 , and a signal processing system 30 which receives signals emitted by the two detectors 20 and 21 and outputs signals to operate the alarm system 31, 32 and the laser power source breaker 13 to Isolate the laser 1 from its power source 5 when the laser power source 5 is disconnected from earth or when current leakage occurs between the optical duct 9 and the casing 10 . 2. A laser scalpel according to claim 1, which also includes a laser beam shutter 6 , and in which the alarm system includes a buzzer 31 and alarm lamps 32 corresponding to each of the group of detectors, the signal processing system 30 sending output signals for operating the buzzer 31 and, at the same time, flashing the alarm lamp 32 corresponding to the fault detected, the signal processing system 30 also sending a signal to close the laser beam shutter 6 . 3. A laser scalpel according to claim 2, in which the group of detectors also includes a detector 28 for detecting operational failure of the laser beam shutter 6 . 4. A laser scalpel according to claim 1 or 2, in which the group of detectors also includes an overcurrent detector 22 for monitoring the laser discharge current. 5. A laser scalpel according to any one of the preceding claims, in which the group of detectors also includes a detector 23, 24 for detecting an abnormal gas pressure in the laser 1 . 6. A laser scalpel according to any one of the preceding claims, in which the group of detectors also includes a detector 25 for monitoring a decrease in the amount of a flowing coolant. 7. A laser scalpel according to any one of the preceding claims, in which the group of detectors also includes a detector 26 for detecting overheating in electrodes of the laser 1 . 8. A laser scalpel according to any one of the preceding claims, in which the grounding disconnection detector 20 comprises a transformer 20d with its primary winding connection in a closed loop with an alternating current power source and a resistance 20c and its secondary winding having one end connected to an earthing wire 12a of an electric power cable 12 and the other end connected to the casing 10 , a grounding disconnection being detected by a drop in the voltage occurring across the resistance 20c , and in which the current leakage detector 21 includes an insulator 21a in between the casing 10 and theoptical duct 9 for the laser beam with a conductor 21b embedded in the insulator 21a , and means 21 to detect current flow between the conductor 21b and the casing 10 .

## Description
LASER SCALPEL INCLUDING A SAFETY DEVICE This invention concerns a laser scalpel including a safety device. This makes the laser scalpel very safe for both patients and operators. A laser scalpel works by taking advantage of high energy power of lasers such as carbon dioxide gas lasers and others therefore, there is always need for careful handling of it, particularly when it is used in the field of medical care. Generally, any medical instrument is designed to be handled so as not to endanger patients, but this does not necessarily mean that a malfunction or breakdown resulting in an accident never occurs, so strict safety measures are required. When a laser instrument is used, special attention must be paid to operations, with it, because high tension circuits are built into it and, further, a laser beam is invisible in most cases. Most electronic instruments have grounding terminals to ensure safe handling and operation. As electronic instruments are increasingly put to use in various industrial fields, some products have become available on the market which require positive grounding. For example, there is an instrument for medical engineering use, which holds high tension circuits inside. Therefore, prior to its use, in addition to connecting the casing of the electronic instrument to the grounding terminals arranged on the floor and some other places with grounding wires, an electric cord, containing a grounding wire other than wires for power supply, is plugged in a socket so as to ensure the contact of the electronic instrument with another grounding wire in the power source side. This seems satisfactory however, if the grounding wires are disconnected, by accident or otherwise, or if the socket should not be effectively earthed, there is risk of an accident. From this viewpoint, it is true that, until today, adequate measures to cope with problems of this kind have not been taken, and a laser instrument for medical use cannot be considered an exception. There are several conventional methods of measuring current leakage in an electronic instrument. For example, one method is to convert the difference in electric current flowing from the power source to the electric instrument and from the electric instrument to the power source into intensity of magnetic flux to detect the leakage current in the form of an induced electric current.However, as the loss in the conversion is too great to detect the leakage current accurately, the disadvantage of this method of measurement is that it can only be applied to the case when the leakage current is great such as a current exceeding lamp Consequently, in the case of an electronic instrument in which it is necessary to detect a very small difference in leakage current ranging from some tensof microsgeres to some hundreds of microamperes, there is no proper way of detection. Therefore, an object of this invention is to provide a laser scalpel which is very safe in use for both patients and operators. According to this invention a laser scalpel including a laser, a laser power source, an optical duct for a laser beam, and a casing also includes a safety device which comprises a group of detectors including a grounding disconmection detector which monitors the electrical connection between the laser scalpel power source and earth and a current leakage detector which monitors current leakage between the optical duct and the casing, a laser power source breaker, an alarm system and a fi zonal processing system which receives signals emitted by the two detectors and outputs signals to operate the alarm system and the laser power source breaker to isolate the laser from its power source whentbe laser power source is disconnected from earth or when current leakage occurs between the optical duct and the casing. A particular example of laser scalpel in accordance with this invention will now be described with reference to the accompanying drawings in which Figure 1 is a block diagram of the laser scalpel and, Figure 2 is a circuit diagram of the grounding disconnection detector. Fig. 1 shows one of the preferred embodiments of this invention. For caution s sake, it had better be stated here that the scalpel part is not shown in Fig. 1 although this drawing illustrates the example of a laser scalpel which utilizes a CO2 laser, Ar laser, or other similar kind of lasers. The mechanism of generating a laser beam will be outlined up to the scalpel part. A gas laser 1, while being cooled with a coolant sent from a coolant circulating apparatus 4, is impressed with high voltage from high tension power source 5 of laser use when a chamber of the gas laser is refilled up to a desired pressure with CO2 or Ar mixed gas sent from a gas cylinder 3 after the chamber has been evacuated by means of a vacuum pump 2.An invisible laser beam emitted from the gas laser 1, after having passed through a shutter 6, is combined with a collimating visible beam, like He Ne laser beam emitted from a laser 7, by means of a half silvered mirror 8, and then led to the scalpel part by way of an optical duct 9 for passing the laser beam, wherein numeral 3a shows a gas regu ating mechanism, numeral 6a a shutter operating mechanism, numeral 10 a metal casing, numeral 11 a commercial power source, numeral 12 an electric cord containing a grounding wire, and numeral 13 a laser power source breaker. In Fig. 1, elements hatched dnd numbered with from 20 to 29 are different kinds of detectors put to use to find abnormalities. A signal processing system 30 is designed to receive every signal emitted from the above detectors, and to activate an alert buzzer 31 and an alert lamp panel 32, to alert operators anytime to keep safe operation, the laser power source breaker 13, and the shutter operating mechanism 6a. Numeral 20 shows a detector for seeing whether the casing 10 is grounded numeral 21 shows a detector for seeing whether there is a leakage of current en route from the casing 10 to the scalpel which is to be brought into contact with the body of patients. These detectors will be described later in more detail.Numeral 22 shows a detector for seeing whether a laser discharge current is too great, which can be built up of a lead switch and a simple comparison circuit.Numeral 23 shows a detector for seeing whether there is any abnormality in the pressure of CO2 and Ar mixed gas. Numeral 24 shows a detector for seeing whether the residual pressure of a gas cylinder 3 is too low. These detectors work by means of a pressure sensing switch or a unit assembled from a pressure oscillator and a comparison circuit. Numeral 25 shows a detector, which can be made up of a flow meter and a pressure sensing switch, for seeing whether the amount of coolant flowing is too little. Numeral 26 shows a detector for seeing whether the electrodes of the gas laser are overheating. This can be made up of a temperature sensing switch, or assembled from a thermistor and a comparison circuit. Numeral 27 shows a detector for seeing whether there is any abnormality in a laser 7 emitting a visible beam for collimation this detector can be assembled from photo detectors, such as a photo transistor, a photodiode, and the like which serve to receive the collimation beam having passed through a half silvered mirror 8, and a comparison circuit. Numeral 28 shows a detector for seeing whether there is any abnormality in the movement of the shutter 6, which can be constructed from a unit that serves to check a voltage being impressed on a micro switch, and a solenoid built in the hutter operating mechanism 6a by means of a comparison circuit. Numeral 29 shows a detector for seeing whether a window of the casing is properly locked, which can be made up of a micro switch. Alert lamps 10 alert lamps are needed in this example , each of which is correspondent to each of the above detectors numbered from 20 to 29, are arranged on the alert lamp panel 32, and a name plate is attached to the respective alert lamps to show the corresponding detector. The signal processing system 30 is built up of a micro computer, for example. The system carries out the following judgements and controls in order to keep safe operation while receiving a variety of signals from the different detectors from 20 to 29.1 The signal processing system causes the buzzer 31 to given an alarm whichever detector picks up abnormality in its own region.2 The signal processing system causes the alert lamps to flicker to tell the position where abnormality is happening.3 The signal processing system causes the laser power source breaker 13 to operate so as to stop the emission of the laser beam if there is grounding wire disconnection, current leakage, excessive laser discharge, pressure drop in the flowing coolant gas mixture, overheating of the laser electrodes, extinction of the collimation beam, or malfunctioning of the shutter. In this example, the system simultaneously gives the shutter operating mechanism in order to stop the laser beam and prevent the beam from getting to the scalpel if the laser should not stop emitting the beam. Additionally, in the case of minute malfunctions like the window of the casing being left open, or pressure of the gas cylinder dropping, the system causes only the buzzer to give an alarm thus, the whole system is able to continue operation without using the laser power source breaker 13 or the shutter operating mechanism 6a, because such malfunctions can be corrected quickly with ease. With all of the above mechanisms, the safety surveillance system is made complete with espect to both the fundamental laser operation and to the functions required for safe operation as a medical instrument in consequence, this system can provide a highly reliable laser scalpel. In Fig. 1, the hatched arrow , , , shows the laser beam from a C02 or Ar gas laser the solid arrow shows a collimation laser beam from a He Ne laser and the dotted arrow 3 shows the same collimation laser beam transmitted by the half silvered mirror. One of the examples of the grounding disconnection detector 20 is shown in Fig. 2, in which numeral 20a shows an alternating current power source for test use, numeral 20b a switch, numeral 20c a resistance, 20d a transformer for test use. The primary side of the transformer 20d is connected to the AC power source 20a the resistance 20c and the switch 20b are also connected to the primary side to make up a closed circuit besides, one end of the secondary side of the transformer is connected to the grounding wire 12a in the electric cord 12, while the other end of the secondary side is connected to a grounding terminal 10a on the casing 10.Because the casing 10 is generally connected to a grounding terminal provided in the wall of a room by means of a grounding wire 10b, the secondary side of the transformer 20d is short circuited as long as the ground is complete therefore, a large current flows in the primary side and the voltage between the two terminals of the resistance 20c is also great. On the contrary, however, when the grounding wire 10b or 12a is broken, disconnected, or left unconnected, the current in the primary side becomes very small, and the voltage between the terminals of the resistance 20c is substantially lowered. Therefore, by watching the voltage between the terminals of the resistance 20c and the current flowing therein, ground disconnection can be detected. On the other hand, in this example of the current leakage detector 21, an insulator 21a is put between the optical duct 9 and the casing 10 moreover, the casing 10 is connected to electrodes 21b embedded in the insulator 21a by the use of a wire 21c to detect a current flowing in this wire. The optical duct 9 for the laser beam is usually in a cylindrical form and is made of electroconductive carbon fiber, so there is a likelihood of current leakage. And if a patient moves suddenly upon receiving an electric shock when touched by the laser scalpel, a serious accident might happen. However, with this system, if there should be a current leakage through the insulator 21a to a optical duct 9, the current flows mainly in electroconductive wire 21c, so that even a very small current leakage can be detected. In this way, patients can be fully free from an electric shock.