# 4 Chloro 1 methyl 2 butynyl carbanilates and method of combating wild oats.

## Abstract
New 4 chloro 1 methyl 2 butynyl carbanilates having the structural formula

## Claims
Claims 1. A method of selectively killing wild oats comprising the step of applying pre emergently to soil containing wild oat seeds an effective amount up to 3 pounds per acre, of a compound having the structural formula EMI9.1 in which Ar is selected from the group consisting of phenyl, 2 chlorophenyl, 3 chlorophenyl, 2 fluorophenyl, 3 fluorophenyl and 2,5 difluorophenyl. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1, in which Ar is phenyl. 3 A method as claimed in claim 1, in which Ar is 3 chlorophenyl. 4. A method as claimed in claim 1, in which Ar is 3 fluorophenyl. 5 A method as claimed in claim 1, in which Ar is 2 fluorophenyl.6. A method as claimed in claim 1, in which Ar is 2,5difluorophenyl. 7. 4 Chloro l methyl 2 butynyl carbanilate. 8. 4 Chloro l methyl 2 butynyl N 3 chlorophenyl carbamate. 9. 4 Chloro l methyl 2 butynyl N 3 fluorophenyl carbamate. 10. 4 Chloro l methyl 2 butynyl N 2 fluorophenyl carbamate. 11. 4 Chloro l methyl 2 butynyl N 2,5 difluorophenyl carbamate. 12. 4 Chloro l methyl 2 butynyl N 2 chlorophenyl carbamate. EMI10.1 Claims 1. A method of selectively killing wild oats comprising the step of applying pre emergently to soil containing wild oat seeds an effective amount up to 3 pounds per acre, of a compound having the structural formula EMI10.2 in which Ar is selected from the group consisting of phenyl, 2 chlorophenyl, 3 chlorophenyl, 2 fluorophenyl, 3 f luoro phenyl and 2,5 difluorophenyl. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1, in which Ar is phenyl. 3. A method as claimed in claim 1, in which Ar is 3 chlorophenyl. 4 A method as claimed in claim 1, in which Ar is 3 fluorophenyl. 5 A method as claimed in claim 1, in which Ar is 2 fluorophenyl. 6. A method as claimed in claim 1, in which Ar is 2,5difluorophenyl.

## Description
4 CHLORO l METHYL 2 BUTYNyL CARBANILATESAND METHOD OF COMBATING WILD OATSDescription of the invention Wild oats have been selectively combated in the presence of such crops as wheat, barley, rape, flax and sugar beets by applying barban 4 chloro 2 butynyl m chlorocarbanilate, U. S. patent 2,906,614 post emergently when the wild oats are in the two leaf stage. By employing relatively low application rates when the wild oats are at a sensitive stage of growth, injury to immature crop plants is avoided. Although barban remains the preferred herbicide for selective wild oat control, it is only a post emergent herbicide and kills only the oats which have emerged. Wild oats which germinate later in the growing season are unaffected and become a source of re infestation, season after season. I have discovered a small group of 4 chloro 1 methyl 2 butynyl carbanilates which have excellent pre emergent selectivity as wild oat herbicides, as well as substantial post emergent efficacy. By careful formulation and use, some of these compounds may give both post emergent and preemergent control of wild oats in the presence of grain crops. Briefly, my method of selectively killing wild oats comprises applying pre emergently to soil containing wild oat seeds an effective amount of a compound having the structural formulaEMI1.1 in which Ar is selected from the group consisting of phenyl, 3 chlorophenyl, 2 fluorophenyl, 3 f luorophenyl and 2,5difluorophenyl. The pronounced pre emergent selectivity of these compounds is accompanied by substantial post emergent efficacy. When some of the wild oats have germinated but the wheat, for example, has not yet emerged, a single application will kill the wild oats both post emergently and preemergently. The characteristics of the herbicides in this small group are not shared by compounds of closely related structures.For example, when Ar is 3 bromophenyl, 3trifluoromethylphenyl, 4 chlorophenyl, 2, 6 dichlorophenyl, 2,3 dichlorophenyl, 2,5 dichlorophenyl or 3 ethylphenyl the desirable pre emergent activity appears to be totally absent, as well as any useful post emergent activity. When Ar is 4 fluorophenyl, both wild oats and wheat are killed preemergently but there is very little effect on other species.Synthesis of the Herbicides The novel herbicides employed in the method of this invention may be made from purchased raw materials by means of the procedures presented below for illustrative purposes. The procedure may be outlined as follows EMI2.1 wherein RLi can be any alkyl or aryl lithium reagent such as methyl lithium, ethyl lithium, n butyl lithium, t butyl lithium, phenyl lithium and the like. In place of the alkyl or aryl lithium reagents one can substitute alkyl or arylGrignard reagents for the metalation step. One can use any inert ether in place of tetrahydrofuran THF such as diethyl ether, dimethoxyethane, or dioxane. For the arylisocyanate reaction one can use in place of toluene any inert solvent such as benzene, ether, ethyl acetate, dichloromethane and the like, and the catalyst may consist of basic amines, tin salts, and the like. Actual synthesis is exemplified below.Synthesis of 5 chloro 3 pentyne 2 ol To a solution of propargyl chloride 11.1 g 0.15 moles in 100 ml of dry THF, cooled to 40 C. under an argon atmosphere, was added dropwise 104 ml of a 1.45 M ethereal solution of methyl lithium. After complete addition the mixture was allowed to stir at 400C. for 15 minutes, then acetaldehyde 6.6g 0.15 moles was added dropwise at 400C. After complete addition the reaction mixture was allowed to come to room temperature and stirred for an additional 1 hr. The reaction mixture was quenched with 10 HC1, evaporated almost to dryness, and taken up in ether.The ether solution was extracted with water and saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate. The ether layer was dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, filtered, and evaporated to drynests. Bulb to bulb distillation gave 9.0 g 51e of the desired product, b.p. 80 820 at 0.8 mm. Synthesis of 5 chloro 3 pentYnyl 2 N 3 chlorophenyl carbamate To a solution of 5 chloro 3 pentyne 2 ol 1.8 g 0.015 moles in 50 ml of dry toluene was added 3 chlorophenylisocyanate 2.3 g 0.015 moles and one drop of stannous octoate. The reaction mixture was refluxed for 4 hours and evaporated to dryness to give the desired product as an oil.The IR and NMR spectra were consistent with the proposed structure. All All compounds listed in Table I were prepared by the above procedure. TABLE I Compounds of the formula EMI4.1 Compound Ar Method of Identification No. 1 3 chlorophenyl IR,NMRa 2 3 f luorophenyl IR,NMR 3 2,5 difluorophenyl IR,NMR 4 phenyl IR, NMR 5 2 chlorophenyl IR,NMR 6 2 fluorophenyl IR,NMR a. Oils were identified by their infrared and NMR spectra. Combating Unwanted Vegetation The novel herbicides of this invention are effective when used post or pre emergently. In some instances they may be applied by both techniques. In commercial use the compounds are formulated as herbicidal compositions in combination with an inert diluent and a surface active agent. There is described below an illustrative procedure for herb icidal use of the compounds under controlled conditions in the greenhouse so as to obtain data on phytotoxic activity and selectivity. Post Emergent Use An aqueous dispersion of each active compound is prepared by combining 0.4 gram of the compound with about 4 ml of a solvent emulsifier mixture 3 parts of a commercial polyoxyethylated vegetable oil emulsifier, 1 part xylene, 1 part kerosene and.then adding water, with stirring, to a final volume of 40 ml, The species of plants on which each compound is to be tested are planted in 4 inch pots in a greenhouse.Ten to 18 days after emergence of the plants, three pots of each species are sprayed with an aqueous dispersion of the active compound prepared as described above, at the indicated rate of active compound per acre and at a spray volume of 60 gallons per acre. Approximately 2 weeks after the spray application the plants are observed and the results rated according to the following schedule DEGREE OF EFFECT 0 no effect 1 slight effect temporary injury 2 moderate effect some permanent injury 3 severe effect some plants died 4 maximum effect all plants died The same rating schedule is employed to judge pre emergent results obtained according to the procedure below. Pre emergent Use A solution of each active compound is prepared by dissolving 290 mg of the compound to be tested in 200 ml of acetone. Disposable expanded polystyrene trays about 2 1 2 inches deep and about 1 square foot in area are prepared and sprayed with the acetone solution at the indicated rate of active chemical per acre of sprayed area and are then covered with about one fourth inch of soil. Twenty one days after seeding and treatment the plants are examined and herbicidal effects are rated according to the above schedule. Both post emergent and pre emergent results which have been obtained with the herbicides are set forth in the following tables. Results on a large number of plant species are shown so as to make clear the selective nature of these novel herbicides. EMI7.1 tb SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 6 tb Compound SEP No SEP Appl n. SEP a SEP JJ SEP 4, tb SEP Rate SEP Q SEP SEP m SEP a, SEP V SEP a, SEP Qm SEP a, SEP X SEP Ul tb SEP 9 SEP k SEP 0 SEP s4 SEP 0 SEP h SEP 0 SEP L4O SEP L40 tb PIIlZT SEP SPECIES SEP tlb.tA. SEP ffi tb xQnthg SEP cncyzpanie z SEP 31 SEP Co SEP 0 SEP Co SEP lo SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP Co SEP Co SEP 0 SEP 0 tb Cocklcbur tb Chenopodium SEP album SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP C SEP 1 tb Lambsquarters SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP o SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb Momoea SEP purDurea SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP Cl SEP Co SEP o SEP o SEP 3 SEP o SEP 0 SEP Cl tb SEP rning SEP glory SEP l SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb Azlarcnt71u SEP retof1erus SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb Pigweed SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP l SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP o SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 33 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 3 tb Wild SEP buckwheat SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 tb Brassica SEP kaber SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb Wild SEP Mustard SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 40 SEP CO tb EchinochZoa SEP crusalli SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb Barnyard SEP grasS SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb Digitaria SEP sanguinalia SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb Crabgrass SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP C SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb Brown SEP us SEP tcctorum SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb Downy SEP Brome SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP tb Setaria SEP fabcrii SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb Giant SEP Foxtail SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP o SEP o SEP o tb Setaria SEP viridis SEP s SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 1 tb Green SEP Foxtail SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb Cyperzts SEP esculantis SEP 3 SEP SEP SEP O SEP O SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb Nutsedge SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb Sorglu m SEP bicolor SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb Shatter SEP Cane SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb Avena SEP fatua SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb Wild SEP Oats tb Zledicano SEP sativa SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 30 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP Cl tb Alfalfa SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb GossvTilen SEP herbaceun SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb Cotton SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP b SEP C tb Arachis SEP kfpogaea SEP 3 SEP SEP C SEP l. SEP C SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb Peanut tb Soja SEP mat SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP C SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 tb Soybean SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb Bcta SEP vuaris SEP 3 SEP SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 2 tb Sugar SEP Beets SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP o SEP 1 SEP o SEP 0 SEP 0 tb Lucopcrsium SEP eccucnt1w SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 2 tb Tomato SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 13 SEP 03 SEP 04 SEP 0 SEP CC tb Zea SEP mays SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP C SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb Corn tb ,wOrdhlA SEP tJUlqa C SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb Grain SEP Sorghum SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb Ort a SEP sativa SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 tb fl ce SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP o SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP o SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP o SEP o tb 2W itieaen SEP acstivaen SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 0 SEP SEP 4 tb SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP o SEP 4 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 tb By examination of the tabulated results it can be seen that the novel herbicides are effective against wild oats when applied pre emergently at rates of 3 pounds per acre or less, without causing permanent injury to wheat. If the wheat has not yet emerged at the time of application, it will also be seen that wild oats which have already emerged will also be killed, without injury to wheat. In this way sub stantial control of wild oats can be obtained with a single application of only one herbicide. It is believed that repeated use of the method of this invention, year after year will cause a reduction of wild oat infestations, whereas the presently used methods have been unable to prevent reinfestation during every growing season.