# REFERENCE ELECTRODE.

## Abstract
A polymer membrane 24 , which is made by a plasma polymerization method or a similar method and has a mole cular structure inactive to ions in sample solution, is form ed on the interface between the internal solution 1 and the sample solution 3 in a conventional reference elec trode or on the surface of the portion in contact with the sample solution in a conventional metal electrode, glass electrode, ion selective electrode, ion selective field ef fect transistor or the like. The thus obtained reference elec trode has no liquid junction portion, makes no change in potential against a wide range of concentration change of any sorts of ions, and can be miniaturized.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A reference electrode characterized in that a polymer membrane having an inactive molecular structure to any ions comprised in a aquious solution kept in contact therewith is formed at the interface of the electrode with the solution. 2. The reference electrode as defined in claim 1, characterized in that said ion inactive polymer membrane is coated on such an ion active material as a metal, a metal oxide, or a silicon compound, etc. 3. The reference electrode as defined in claim 1 characterized in that a polymer material is coated tightly on a substrate material which has high electron conductivity and or high proton conductivity. 4. A reference electrode characterized in that a polymer membrane having an inactive molecular structure to any ions in a aquious solution kept in contact therewith and besides the inside thereof is minute and around the surface thereof is coarse in structure are formed at the interface of the electrode with the solution. 5. A reference electrode characterized in that an ion inactive polymer membrane is coated on the surface of the ion sensitive part of a ion sensor of semiconductor. 6. The reference electrode as defined in claim 5 characterized in that a field effect transistor wherein the gate part thereof is covered with an ion inactive polymer membrane is formed on a same chip as another ion selective fiedl effect transistor. 7. A reference electrode characterized in that an inactive polymer material synthesized with the plasma polymerization method is coated at the interface of the electrode with a water solution. 8. The reference electrode as defined in claim 7 characterized in that an inactive polymer membrane is coated on another polymer material. 9. The reference electrode as defined in claim 7, characterized in that a polymer material synthesized with the plasma polymerization method is heated in vacuum or in an inactive gas for after aging in order to inactivate the active legand of the surface thereof. WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. cancelled 2. cancelled 3. cancelled 4. amended A refence electrode having a polymer film inactive to ions, characterized in that the polymer film has a uneven stracture in depth therein the surface of the film comprises of relatively coarse particles and the inside of the film is tightly constructed with minute particles, and that ions of a specified salt are holded within the spaces between the particles so as to constitute a salt bridge. 5. cancelled 6. cancelled 7. cancelled 8. cancelled 9. cancelled 10. supplemented A reference electrode as defined in claim 4, characterized in that the polymer film of uneven structure is formed with a plasma polymerization method. 11. supplemented A reference electrode as defined in claim 10, characterized in that said plasma polymerization is operated with a low frequency plasma. 12. supplemented A refence electrode as defined in claim 4, characterized in that said inactive polymer film is coated on ion conductive material formed on electron conductive material. 13. supplemented A reference electrode as defined in claim 4, charactrized in that said inactive polymer film is coated on other polymer material formed on electron conductive material.

## Description
SPECIFICATION REFERENCE ELECTRODEFIELD OF TECHNOLOGY This invention relates to a reference electrode to be used as the reference in measurement of the potential of electrode in case a working electrode is made in contact with a solution and the component and its concentration are to be analyzed and controlled by measuring the interface potential of it, belonging to the fields of electrochemistry and its application.BACKROUND OF TECHNOLOGY In the analyzing method specially classified as Potentiometry among electrochemical analysis methods, the concentration of an component in a sample solution is analyzed in such a way as inserting a working electrode into the sample solution and measuring the interface potential, making use of such a phenomenon that the potential arising at the interface between the electrode and the solution will relate to the component and its concentration comprised in said sample solution.As it is imposible to measure the interface potential directly in performance of the analysis method mentioned above, such a method is usually adopted that a reference electrode is inserted into the same sample solution as the counter electrode of the working electrode and the potential difference between the both electrodes is measured on the assumption that the potential of reference electrode is always constant. Although calomel electrode, silver silver chloride electrode, etc. is generally used as the reference electrode, calomel and silver chroride which are metallic salt hard to dissolve and also silver chloride will change the potential corresponding to the activity of the chloride ion in the solution kept in contact with them. For this reason, such a method is practically taken that those electrodes mentioned above are immersed in a aqueous solution where the concentration of chloride ion is kept constant and a liquid junction is provided at a part of the boundry layer between the internal solution and a sample solution thereby making it possible to keep electrical conduction between the internal solution and the sample solution.For another example, such a method is taken that an aqueous solution ofwhich chloride ion s concentration is kept constant is flowed little by little to the reference electrode to prevent the aqueous solution mixed with the sample solution from touching the reference electrode. The measures mentioned above, however, will make it hard to measure the potential of an ion selective electrode precisely due to any variation of the potential arising at the junction generally so called Junction Potential and due to any change of the activity of chloride ion caused by mixing of the internal solution with the sample solution, ultimately causing precise chemical analyses such as biochemical analysis to be erroneous more or Iess. Fig. 1 shows the schematic structure of a conventional analyzer for potentiometry where, 1 is the working electrode that is, the ion selective electrode , 2 is the reference electrode which is inserted into the internal solution inside the vessel 22 having the pinhole type junction 21 , 3 is a sample solution, and 4 is the amplifier functioning to amplify the potential between the electrodes 1 and 2 of which output is indicated by means of the meter 5 . As for the input circuit of the amplifier 4 , the lead wire connecting the electrode 1 to the amplifier 4 is applied with the shield 6 for the sake of reduction of noise.In the structure mentioned above, it is unavoidable to shut off any influence from the junction potential at the junction 21 or nullify any variation of the activity of ion due to mixture of the internal solution with the external one through the junction 21 as mentioned above and therefore it is hard to keep the potential of the reference electrode 2 constant at a highly precise level.DISCLOSURE OF INVENTION This invention relates to those electrodes to be used for electrochemical analysis and, for potential measurement and control, specially to the reference electrode to be used as the counter electrode of a working electrode, providing a reference electrode which can keep the potential constant independent of any variations of the kinds of ions in a solution and of any change of the activity thereof at a highly precise level. An important feature of this invention is to isolate the internal electrode of a reference electrode from a solution and or electrolyte it is in contact with, by means of a polymer membrane having a ion inactive molecular structure. Besides, this invention providing a perfect solid state reference electrode by covering the ion sensitive part of a semiconductor ion sensor by means of an ion inactive polymer membrane, evoluting the principle and structure mentioned above. Additionally, this invention providing a membrane synthesized with the plasma polymerization method as the most effective form of the ion inactive polymer membrane mentioned above and proposes that said membrane newly providing thereby is to be applied to the reference electrode. Further additionally, this invention, through pursuance of the specific structure of the ioninactive structure of the above mentioned, has explicated that such an unhomogeneous polymer structure of membrane of which inside, that is, the side to be in contact with the electrode is of very fine molecular structure and of which outside, that is, the parts thereof near the side to be in contact with a sample solution is of relatively coarse molecular structure is very effective and thus proposes that said unhomogeneous polymer membrane is to be applied to the reference electrode. In this specification, solution means a material comprising ingredients and or ions that are the objectives to be pursued in analyses or measurements which are dissolved therein in consisting condition, broadly including waste water, dirty liquid, blood, urine, and other body fluids, etc., and any electrolyte solution for plating work and solid electrolytes which has come to be used recently, etc. Also in this specification, ion inactive polymer membrane means a polymer film having an inactive molecular structure from which any field potential will not be produced by dint of the ions kept in contact therewith and or the activity of them or having an inactive molecular structure which will not be changed even if any field potential will be produced by dint of said ions and or the activity of them, which is generally a material that will release relatively small density of ionized radicals from the surface thereof and of which resistance value is within the range of 1 MQ between 5000 MQ or so in most cases. Furthermore in this specification, reference electrode means a generic term of the electrode to be provided as the counter electrode to a working electrode optionally provided in order to measure the potential ofsaid electrode optionally provided, which counter electrode is to be the reference of potential to be used for measuring the relative potential between them, including recent semiconductive ion sensor, for example, the structure of reference electrode to be used for measuring the relative properties of an electrode in such a type of electrode of which properties can be detected in terms of electric current such as the transistor type of electrode making use of the field effect.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS FIG. 1 shows an example of conventional reference electrode FIG. 2, FIG. 3 and FIG. 4 show the longitudinal sectional views of embodiments of reference electrodes according to this invention respectively FIG. 2 shows the case of using an inactive polymer membrane independently FIG. 3 shows the case of using said membrane being coated on an ion active material FIG. 4 shows the case of using said membrane being coated directly on an electlon conductive material FIG. 5 shows the graph indicating the performance of each embodiment shown in FIG. 2 to FIG. 4 FIG. 6 shows an embodiment of this invention applied to a field effect transistor FIG. 7 to Fig. 9 show the embodiments of devices using the polymer membrane coated with the plasma polymerization method respectively FIG. 10 shows the graph indicating the performance of the device shown in FIG. 8 FIG. 11 shows another embodiment of device using the polymer membrane coated with the plasma polymerization method FIG. 12 to Fig. 15 show the graphs indicating the performance of the device shown inFIG. 11 FIG. 16 shows an enlarged photograph of the surface of an ordinary polystyrene film FIG. 17 to FIG. 19 show enlarged photographs of the polystyrene layers coated with the plasma polymerization method FIG. 20 shows the sectional structural view of a polymer film coated with the plasma polymerization method FIG. 21 to FIG. 28 show applied devices of the reference electrode according to this invention FIG. 21 and FIG. 22 show the devices for measuring the potential between electrodes as per the 3electrode method FIG. 23 shows the constitution of a fluid continuous analysis system FIG. 24 and FIG. 25 show the graphs indicating the performance of the device shown inFIG. 23 FIG. 26 shows the constitution of an electrolytic analysis device FIG. 27 shows the performance of the device shown in FIG. 26 and FIG. 28 shows the constitution of a constant potential analysis device. THE BEST FORM FOR EMBODYING THE INVENTION FIG. 2 shows the longitudinal sectional drawing of the reference electrode relating to an embodiment of this invention. 23 is the protective tube of which end is airtightly adhered with the polymer membrane usually 0.01 to 100 i m thick 24 , and the protective tube 23 and the membrane 24 constitute the vessel for the internal solution for the reference electrode. 25 is the glass tube for holding the calomel of which lower end s hole is plugged with the porous plug 12 such as a cotton plug, the lower half part inside the tube is filled with the calomel 7 , the upper half part inside said tube is filled with the quick silver 8 , the platina wire 9 is inserted into the quick silver 8 from over the same, and the upper end of said platina wire 93 is connected to the lead wire 10 . The inside of the protective tube 23 is filled with a constant concentration of potassium chloride KC2 11 , the glass tube 25 is immersed in said KCQ water solution, and said KCQ water solution is in contact with the calomel 7 through the cotton plug 12 .In such a structure as mentioned above, the part of said membrane 24 is immersed in a sample solution 31. As the membrane 24 has no holes provided thereon, the KCQ aquious solution is completely secluded from a sample solution. Such polymer film can be obtained in such a way as dissolving, for example, fluororesin, polystyrene resin, polyvinyl chloride, etc. with a medium such as highly pure tetrahydrofuran, molding it, and letting the medium volatilize in a highly pure inactive gas to dry it up. The manufacturing method of said film mentioned above is very suitable for forming a highly pure film in an optionally selected shape. Although it is proposed to use a polymer film treated to be porous for the junction, suchlike film is out of the criterion of this invention. In the structure shown in FIG. 2, the interface potential between the aquious solution 113 in the protective tube 23 and the inner surface of the inactive membrane 24 is constant by the same reason as the outer surface. The interface potential between the outer surface of the membrane 24 and a sample solution 3 is constant to the ion comprised in said sample solution 3 .As the membrane 24 is completely adhered with said protective tube 23 to be airtight against said sample solution, it is completely prevented to allow such a phenomenon even if any differences arise between the inside and outside of said membrane in pressure and or temperature that said sample solution will get into said protective tube to change the concentration of said KCQ aqueous solution 11 thereby varying the reference potential or that said KCQ aqueous solution 11 in said protective tube will leak out into said sample solution thereby polluting sample solution. FIG. 3 shows an ion inactive polymer film formed on the surface, of a membrane constituting the liquid junction, which is in contact with a sample solution. In FIG. 3, an ion inactive polymer film 26 is formed on an ion active film, for example, a glass film 27 for measuring pH and said ion active film 27 is completely secluded from a sample solution by means of said polymer film. The construction of any other parts is the same as that of the embodiment of device shown in FIG. 2. Although an ordinary glass electrode for measuring pH will change its output at the rate of approximately 59 mV corresponding to variation of one unit of the pH of a sample solution it is in contact with at the temperature of 250C, adhering an ion inactive polymer film with the electrode to form as specified in this invention will modify said electrode to be inactive to pH.Also in this invention, it is possible to privide an ion inactive electrode in such a way as adhering the above mentioned ion inactive polymer film direct with a metal, a metal oxide, a ceramics or other ion selective inactive material. FIG. 4 shows an embodiment of the reference electrode formed in such a way as adhering the above mentioned inactive polymer film with the surface of a piece of platina wire where, formation of the inactive polymer film 43 on the surface of the platina wire 42 attached to the protective tube 41 will be able to play the part of a reference electrode by inserting it direct into a sample solution 3 . The lead wire t44 connected to said platina wire 42 is to be connected to the measuring circuit. FIG. 5 shows the graph indicating the performance of the potential response actually obtained with respect of the inactive polymer film electrode relating to the embodiments of devices shown in FIG. 2 to FIG. 4. On the basis of such a result that the performance of potential response is inactive, the potential difference between conventioanl reference electrode consisting of silver silver chloride having a liquid junction and the inactive polymer film electrode relating to this invention is measured. In FIG 5, the data 31 relates to the thin film solidified from its mold made after dissolving polyvinyl chloride with tetrahydrofuran. The data 32 relates to the film made of fluororesin. In either data mentioned above, it is clear that a constant potential is generated independent of the concentration of K ion in the sample solution. Although one embodiment to K ion is shown in FIG. 5, said film is also inactive to general ions existing in usual industrial or biochemical sample solutions such as Na , C and HCO3 , etc. On the other hand, the data 33 shown in FIG. 5 indicates the potential response of the thin film solidified from its mold after dissolving the mixture of barinomysin K active material with some assistant such as dioctyl sebacate in polyvinyl chloride with the medium of tetrakydrofuran which has been measured in the same way as mentioned above. An electrode equipped with said film is apparently ion selective to K ion. In this case, mixing any inadequate medium, minute foreign matters, or improper assistant therewith will prevent inactivation of the membrane which is a main point of this invention. The data 36 in FIG. 5 indicates the output of a glass electrode responsive to pH and the data 35 in the same indicates the output of the reference electrode having the structure relating to this invention, where the former is active to pH but the latter is inactive to pH as shown there. The data 34 indicates that of the device of FIG. 5, which indicates a very stable performance. The data 30 in FIG. 5 indicates the feature of a glass electrode having the structure inactive to K ion to K ion, which is fairly inactive to Kf in comparison with the data 33 for an electrode active to K . These data 31 , 32 , and 34 indicating the feature of the electrode equipped with an inactive polymer film relating to this invention exhibit little variation to any change of the concentration of the objective ions, indicating that said electrode equipped with an inactive polymer film is very stable as the reference electrode. Another feature of this invention is to form a small solid state reference electrode by applying the inactive polymer film to the ion selective field effect transistor To be abbreviated to ISFET . The ISFET is covering the upside of the insulating layer of the channel between the source and drain of a field effect transistor having a source, drain and gate on the silicon chip P thereof with an ion selective ion sensitive film, which is a kind of semiconductor ion sensor that functions to detect the concentration of the objective ion in a sample solution by means of the output signal produced by changing the electric current flowing between the source and drain, by using the potential arising between the ion sensitive film and the solution to be measured when the ionsensitive film is. brought into contact with a sample solution, as the input signal to the gate thereo In the ISFET inactive to ion according to this invention, the outermost surface of the electric insulating layer constituting the gate is covered with the inactive polymer film mentioned above and the electric current flowing between the drain and source will be kept constant independent of the concentration of a sample solution kept in contact with the gate, which functions to operate as the reference electrode. Referring to FIG. 6, the above mentioned mechanism is to be described as follows FIG. 6 shows an embodiment of the ion inactive field effect transistor according to this invention, where the ion selective ion sensitive film Ta2Os attached to the outermost surface of the gate of the ion selective field effect transistor having the source 64 , drain 63 , and gate 61 on the channel P thereof, that is, the surface of the insulating layer of the channel between the source and drain is covered with the ion inactive polymer film 62 . 65 is the hermetic seal component material The electrodes of source and of drain are not shown here . Although the ISFET has an important feature as a small sensor, the advantageous feature of its small size has not been made use of to the full so far as adopting conventional calomel electrode or silver silver chloride electrode as the counter electrode. It has become possible, however, to reduce the size of counter electrode, too, to much extent by applying this invention thereto, therefore making it possible to reduce the size of the whole electrode system to much extent. For example, it is possible to form the electrode system Sensor assembly in such a small size as a stomach examining camera furthermore it is possible to form the electrode system in an extremely small size so that it may be possible to insert said electrode system into blood vessels in such a way as attaching the same to the end of an injector, too. Furthermore, it is possible to minimize the size of electrode system because of capability of using the drain commonly if both the indicator ISFET and the ISFET constitutint the reference electrode are formed on a common semiconductor base and they are connected to each other on said base, thereby allowing the analyses of any minute parts to be made. Next, an embodiment where the plasma polymerization method is applied to the field effect transistor of reference electrode is to be described as follows In FIG. 7, 71 is the channel of the field effect transistor, 72 is the silver film approx.100 A thick , 73 is Ag2 S AgCQ film approx. 500 3, 74 is the ion exchange resin film containing CQ approx. 500 A , and 75 .is the polystyrene inactive filni approx. 1000 A synthesized through the plasma polymerization method where, the total thickness from the channel to the outside of inactive film is 2000 A or less as formed by lamination the manufacturing method of each layer of them is almost the same as those embodiments shown in FIG. 8 and in FIG. 9. 76 is the drain and 77 is the source. In case the outside of inactive film is in contact with the sample solution 78 , the electric current flowing between the drain and source wiU be constant independent of the kinds of ions dissociated in the solution and of the concentration of them in the same, which can be used as a kind of ultra small reference electrode in the same way as shown in FIG. 6, thereby capable of obtaining further more stable performance. Depending on use, it is also possible to form the reference electrode relating to this invention on the base of ISFER commonly in the same way as shown in FIG. 6 furthermore, it is also possible to form such a needle type sensor as capable of being inserted into, for example, blood vessels. FIG. 8 shows another embodiment of the reference electrode according to this invention 81 is, for example, a silver plate of 6 mm in diameter and of 1 mm in thickness, 82 is 10 to 100 ,um of thin film made by mixing silver chloride with silver sulfide, dissolving the mixture, and fixing it hereinafter to be referred to as AgC Ag2S Film , 83 is the thin film made of ion inactive polymer such as polystyrene, etc., 84 is the lead wire, 85 is the stopper for the film, 86 is a 10 mm O.D. of cylinder made of hard polyvinyl chloride, and 87 is a sample solution. FIG. 9 shows the schematic drawing of the longitudinal sectional view of another embodiment of the reference electrode according to this invention where, 91 is a thick wall approx.2 mm of tube made of hard polyvinyl chloride, 92 silver plate 0.1 mm thick or less plus 93 Ag2 S AgC Film plus 94 inactive film made of polystyrene are overlaid thereon in this order from up to down to form an incorporated membrane, which is fixed to the lower end of the tube 91 with the stopper 95 .The inside of the tube 91 is filled with saturated potassium chloride solution 96 as the electrolyte into which the saturated calomel electrode there inafter referred to as SCE 97 is inserted to form an internal electrode there. Hereinafter referred to as internal solution type reference electrode , which belongs to the solid state reference electrode because it has no liquid junction. Although some embodiments of covering a variety of materials with inactive polymer materials are described above, in brief these materials such as metal, metal oxide, silicate glass, etc. , chloride AgC , and sulfide Ag2S, etc. , etc. are available to be covered by inactive polymer.As mentioned below in another embodiment, however, interposing an ion conductive material between a metal wire or plate and an ion inactive film will be effective for obtaining electrodes of which properties are uniform. Another advantageous feature of this invention is to use a polymer film formed through the plasma polymerization method as the part of reference electrode to be in contact with a sample solution. Such matters have been corroborated through repetition of many experiments and the examinations and through introduction of electrochemical knowledge that special polymer films synthesized with the plasma polymerization method will be extremely non responsive to variations of a variety of ions and or to broad range of changes of the concentration of sample solutions, that the surface thereof subjected to special aging treatment will improve the stability and life thereof, and that interposition of an ion conductive or proton conductive material between the polymer film and the metallic lead wire will be able to make solid and firm reference electrodes which are uniform in properties and in performance, resultantly capable of miniaturizing said reference electrodes. Moreover, application of said new reference electrodes to potential controlled electrolyses, that is, constant potential electrolyses has been established as an important use thereof, found of a noticeable effect in the field of electrolytic industry, too. Next, an embodiment of said polymer film, referring to FIG. 8, is to be described as follows As for the plasma polymerization method applied thereto, styrene monomer is filled in such a vacuum as approximately 10 2 Torr, glow discharging is made with 1 KHz AC current for approximately 30 seconds, and thereafter heating is made up to approximately 700C followed by aging in the atmosphere of Ar gas for about 2 hours. The after aging mentioned above is enough effective in the atmosphere of these gases such as hydrogen, nitrogen, helium, or fluorine, etc., too. The electrodes made as mentioned above, as apparent in comparison with FIG. 1, have no liquidjunctions, are solidified, and exhibit stable potential to variations of the chemical composition of sample solutions. If assuming that a polystyrene thin film is perforated and the hole perforated constitutes a liquid junction, any potential making the Nernst Response to the activity of C2 in a sample solution will be found because said sample solution will get in contact with the AgCQ Ag2S Film. Endorsing the above mentioned therory, any potential difference responsive to the activity of KCQ has been observed actually in such a way as the polystyrene film shown in FIG. 8 is optionally perforated a minute hole, is immersed in a variety of concentrations of KCQ aquious solutions, and is measured of the potential difference using conventional calomel electrode as the counter electrode. In case of a normal polystyrene thin film according to this invention Refer to the electrode shown in FIG. 8 , however, any other change of the potential on the polystyrene thin film than the potential of liquid junction arising on conventional calomel electrode used as the counter electrode is not observed therefore, it is judged that the polystyrene thin film accordding to this invention has no minute pinholesthereon at least passing K or C ion therethrough . Next, in order to corroborate the effect of the embodiment of electrode relating to this invention shown in FIG. 8, experiments have been made of several kinds of ions as follows The results of experiments made as mentioned above are shown in FIG. 10, which have been obtained by measurement of the potential difference between said electrode and the counter electrode SCE having been used conventionally in the same way as mentioned above becuase it is impossible to measure the potential of said single electrode by itsel Referring to FIG. 10, that some variation of the potential difference is observed within the low concentration zone of an electrolyte solution made of which concentration is known is presumed possibly due to any potential having arisen at the liquid junction of the SCE used as the counter electrode. Calculating the potential at the liquid junction and making its compensa tion depending on any difference of concentration between the concentration of an electrolytic solution made which is known of chemical composition and concentration and that of the internal solution Saturated potassium chloride solution of a SCE, it is found that the potential of the electrode relating to this invention has hardly been changed. In order to indicate the high stability of potential of said electrode, the inclination of potential responsive to C ion of a Ag AgCQ electrode is indicated by the line Q in FIG. 10.That is to say, it indicates that the potential of the reference electrode relating to this invention is kept constant to exhibit its performance required, disclosing a defect Potential at liquid junction the SCE on the basis of conventional technique adopted as a measures for experiment has. Although it cannot be said that the polystyrene constituting an embodiment of this invention which has too active H ion is non active throughout all the range of pH, it is non active at least within the range of pH 4 to 8.5 therefore, it may be highly available as the reference electrode in practical use because the range of pH of the body fluids of living bodies is relatively narrow, e.g., the pH of blood ranges 7.3 0.5. Although the polystyrene film synthesized with the plasma polymerization method is taken as an embodiment of this invention as mentioned above, the similar result to that shown in FIG. 10 is obtained of the xylene film synthesized through the plasma polymerization method, too.Besides, the similar results to those shown above are obtained of these films made of fluorine system and vinyl system, etc. synthesized with the plasma polymerization method, too, provided such a recent contrivance as adopting a teflon film perforated a number of minute holes thereon to prevent outfLow of the internal solution seen in conventional reference electrodes is different from the reference electrode according to this invention in structure, function, and principle. The fact that said electrode relating to this invention will not respond to the activity of CF ion as shown in FIG. 10 corroborates that the plasma synthesized film which is an embodiment of this invention shown in FIG. 8 does not have such minute holes as allowing ions to alternate with each other therethrough. That is to say, this invention will bring about new reference electrode displaying outstanding advantageous effects such as producing no potential at the liquid junction nor any drift potential, preventing any alternation of materials with each other nor leakage therethrough by means of a new measures different from conventional technique. Besides, as to an embodiment of this invention shown in FIG 9, a polystyrene film synthesized through the plasma polymerization method is used as the polymer film 94 and the similar result to that shown in FIG. 10 has been obtained of it, too, through experiment. Next, an embodiment of this invention shown in FIG. 11 is to be described as follows FIG. 11 shows a solid state reference electrode consisting of combination of a 6 mmf diameter of silver wire fixed to a film formed in such a way as one side of a 25 pm thickness of cellulose plate is spattered with Ag as thick as 5 ,um and the other side of the same is subjected to glow discharging for 90 seconds to form a 7000 A thickness of polystyrene film polymerized thereby from styrene monomer there 5 X 10 2 Torr, at room temperature, 10 KfIz, and 1Watt where, 111 is the silver wire, 112 is the coated silver film 113 is the celIulose film, 114 is the film with plasma polymerization method synthesized film, and 115 is the stopper for the film. The above mentioned electrode is immersed in a sample solution 116 and the following measurement is made 1 The combination of said electrode with a sodium ion selective electrode is inserted into a NaCQ aquious solution and the potential difference E generated to each value of the activity of Na is subsequently plotted, obtaining the dash line A as indicated in FIG. 12. In the same way as mentioned above, the combination of said Na selective electrode with conventional silver silver chloride type reference electrode is inserted into said solution plotting the solid line B Refer to FIG. 12 . As understood from these graphs mentioned above, they are almost coincided with each other in performance.2 The potential difference to each kind of ion is measured in combination of said reference electrode relating to this invention with conventional silver silver chloride Internal solution 0.1 N KCQ and has obtained the results shown in FIG. 13. No potential differences generated over broad range of concentration for these electrolytes such as NaHCO3, NaC , and KCQ. No potential differences generated within the range of pH 9 to pH 4 for H ion, too. From the above mentioned results 1 and 2 obtained through experiments, therefore, it is corroborated that said electrode shown above in FIG. 11 is enough available as the reference electrode in the same as the silver silver chloride electrode.3 FIG. 14 shows the comparison of performance between said referene electrode shown above in FIG. 11 and conventional silver silver chloride type reference electrode to the concentra tion of Na ion contained in human blood serum where, each dot indicates the measure ments to the same concentration of Na ion, the absccisa X indicates the measurements in combination of conventional silver silver chloride type electrode with the Na selective electrode and the ordinate Y indicates the measurements in combination of the reference electrode according to this invention mentioned above in 1 with the same Na selective electrode both the results of them are fairly coincided with each other to be satisfied.4 FIG. 15 shows the relation between the activity of Na ion and the potential difference generated thereby in combination of the reference electrode shown above in FIG. 11 with the Na selective electrode where, complete coincidence of the measurements has been obtained between the case of NaC aqueous solution marked O and the case of NaC optionally dissolved in human blood serum Ion free serum marked A , which indicates that said reference electrode according to this invention can be applied to the measurement of the concentration of Na ion in human blood serum, too.5 TABLE 1 shows how each kind of organic hindering material will interrupt the measurement from being carried out properly in case of measurement of any inorganic electrolyte com ponents contained in blood by means of the reference electrode according to this invention as mentioned above where, the leftmost column shows the hindering material against the measurement, the middle one show the objective material for the measurement, the usual concentration range of hindering material in blood, and the concentration of hindering material in a sample, and the rightmost one shows the degree of hindrance Note The number in case of no hindrance is to be 100 . . As understood from the table, adoption of the reference electrode according to this inven tion will make it possible to precisely make the objective measurement without being affected by much quantity of hindering materials over the usual concentration which are contained in blood. Table 1 interferents normal concn. in blood tested concn. effect mM Q Enzymes catalase 2.0 4.8 g 2 25 g Q 100.4 lipase 14 280 IU 1400 IU 100.3 Proteins albumin 35 55 g 50 g 103.2 fibrinogen 2 4 g Q 10 g 103.3 Nitrogen compounds glutamine 500 830 M 4.2 mM Q 101.0 creatinine 6.4 11.2 mg 50 mg 100.0 uric acid 35 79 RTI ID 17.21 mg 400 mg 100.0 Hormone thyroxine 45 115 g 5 mg 100.3 Sugars lactose 9 23 mg 138 mg 100.3 glucose 0.5 1 g 5 g 100.8 galactose 0 200 mg 1 g 100.0 Lipid cholic acid 0 3.4 mg 34 mg 100.5 Vitamins vitamine B6 30 80 g 400 g 100.0L ascorbic acid 2 9 mg 60 RTI ID 17.43 mg 100.4 nicotinic acid 16 50 g 20 mg 100.4 As mentioned above, said reference electrode having a membrane made with the plasma polymerization method which relates to this invention will be non responsive to any ions existing in every kind of electrolytic solution. In order to further elucidate the properties of this membrane, the surface of a polystyrene film made through the plasma polymerization method is minutely observed by means of a scanning type electron microscope. As the result of observation, the comparison of the surface structure of said film with that of a commercial polystyrene film is shown in FIG. 16 to FIG. 19.Observing the surface structure of said film changing the frequency of plasma discharging variably, the part near the surface of film is observed as structured with relatively coarse particles as large as around 1 form and the inside structure of the film is observed as structured minutely and closely through such range of frequency as 10 RH to 100 KHzin the plasma discharging. On the other hand, said plasma polymerized polystyrene film formed on a metal such as silver, aluminum, etc. will never be responsive to a variety of concentration of NaC2 or KCQ aquious solution when immersed in it and thus it is clear that said film has no holes allowing to pass these ions therethrough. From the facts mentioned above, it can be said that although the polymers stuck to the film in the early stage of discharging during the plasma synthesized film will become structured more minutely as the bridge bonding proceeds by means of any additional discharging made thereafter, the polymers additionally stuck to the previous polymers will gradually become structured more and more coarsely, forming such degree of coarse particles as 1 ,um or so as seen in FIG. 18 and FIG. 19. As the result, it have become clear that the film wiU have such a uneven structure in its sectional view therein the inside of the film is packed with minute particles tightly without any pinhole to allow the ions to pass, near the surface of the film the particles are formed more coarse gradually, as shown in FIG. 20 schmatically. Note The Nos. shown in FIG. 20 are common to those shown in FIG. 11. Therefore, although ionized solutions can get into the part near the surface of said film, they cannot get into the part of film which positions in the deepest thereo Such structure of film can be formed favorably by the plasma polymerized films. In order to obtain the structure of film mentioned above, it is recommended to continue the plasma discharging for a fairly long time, for example, 1 to 5 minutes. Therefore, if an electrode is constituted with a membrane of which surface part is subjected to the plasma polymerization method as shown in FIG. 11 in such a disposition thereof as the coarse structure thereof being faced outside and the electrode is immersed in a KCQ aquious solution heated a little higher than room temperature for 24 hours. Thus such a film electrode as having comprised K and C ions up to approximately half the thickness thereof will be formed.The part of said film which contains the K and C2 ions, so to speak, plays the part of a salt bridge. As the diameter of holes made on said film is minutely small and a number of holes are formed there complicatedly, the ions will not get away therefrom easily, which is very effective for the purpose of constitution of a reference electrode having stable performance. Such a constitution of an electrode as interposing a polymer material Cellulose between an electron conductive material and an ion inactive polymer film which is different from the previous polymer material and its performance are as mentioned above since FIG. 11, but it is also possible to use another kind of polymer materials in place of cellulose and it is also possible to use these polymer materials such as xylene and epoxy, etc. in place of styrene as said inactive polymer material Film . For example, it is also possible to use any other optionally selected metals such as W, Co, and C.u, etc. in addition to Ag and A2 and besides C, etc. as said electroconductive material. Next, the specified embodiments of this invention for applying it to electrochemical measurement and electrolytic industry are to be described as follows Although the internal resistance of general ion selective electrodes is expected to be 10 MQ or larger, usual voltmeters can be used in case the internal resistance of the reference electrode which is to be the counter electrode thereof is relatively small. However, said reference electrodes having said polymer relating to this invention have as large internal resistance as 10 Mfl or larger in some cases which is larger than that of conventional type reference electrodes. Therefore, it is effective to use a difference voltage measuring system provided with the third electrode in juxtaposition. FIG. 21 shows the schematic structure of the above mentioned 3 electrode difference voltage measuring system where, the ion selective electrode 191 is a working electrode and any potential difference El E3 generated between said electrode and the third microelectrode 193 , e.g., a platina wire will be fed to the first amplifier 194 . On the other hand, any potential difference El E3 generated between said reference electrode 192 relating to this invention and the above mentioned third electrode 193 will be fed to the second amplifier 195 . The difference of the outputs of the both amplifiers mentioned above will be indicated by means of the differential amplifier 196 . Although said third electrode will change the potential generated thereby depending on the kinds of sample solutions though the internal resistance is extremely small, any variation of the potential generated can be compensated completely, clearly meaning that the output signal Ex of said differential amplifier is to be the potential E1 of said ion selective electrode 19 1 responding to the activity of a specified potential comprised in a sample solution.Not to speak of, temperature will affect the correlation between the activity of ion and the potential of electrode besides in the order of logarithm therefore, they will be converted into signals respectively by means of the temperature compensating element 199 and converse logarithm computing circuit 197 and then will be indicated by the value of ion activity by means of the indicator 198 . Said electrode difference measuring system can be applied to the ISFET, too, without modifying it. An embodiment of said measuring system in case of the ISFET is shown in FIG. 22 where, the ISFET Working electrode 201 , the reference ISFET Reference electrode 202 , and the third electrode 203 are arranged in a sample solution 3 , the electric currents li andIr of the both electrodes are amplified by means of the amplifiers 204 and 205 respectively on the basis of the third electrode and then the difference Ii Ir is indicated by means of the indicator 208 . FIG. 23 shows an embodiment of a special continuous fluid analysis system provided with said ion inactive polymer membrane electrode relating to this invention. Said 3 electrode differencial measuring system 211 is to be provided in the first measuring bath 212 and in the second measuring bath 213 respectively, and a reagent having enough concentration, e.g., HC water solution is to be flowed through the both measuring baths comnicated with each other in a constant flow rate. The sample injection port 214 is provided at the middle position between the both measuring baths, and a certain quantity of sample, e.g., silver nitrate water solution is injected thereinto, thereby Ag will react with CQ to precipitate in the form of silver chloride, resulting in reducing the concentration of CW contained in said sample responding to the quantity of Ag Volume X Concentration .Consequently, it will change the output signal transmitted from said 3electrode difference measuring system 211 including the C2 selective electrode corresponding thereto. In case the above mentioned injection is made in a certain quantity by means of an injector, etc. for a sample, the variation of the output signal of the both measuring baths will be formed making a peak as shown in FIG. 24 therefore, the area of said peaked curve or the height of said peak will be made in proportional to the concentration of Ag contained in the sample. As the difference measuring system by means of the first and second measuring baths is not required to keep the concentration of reference HCQ water solution constantly so strictly, it will be very available for maintenance in continuous analyses in industries. If a sample is continuously injected in a constant flow rate in another version in this case, the differential output signal in said system shown in FIG. 23 will not form a peak and any transient variations of the concentration of Ag contained in the sample as time passes will be indicated continuously as shown in FIG. 25. FIG. 26 shows an embodiment of this invention relating to the polarograph where, 241 is a working electrode which is generally the dropping mercury electrode in practical case, 242 is the counter electrode which is generally the mercury pool electrode in practical case, 243 is a sample solution, 244 is said reference electrode relating to this invention, 245 is the potential applying device driven by means of a constant speed motor M , 246 is the mercury pool, 247 is the negative feedback amplifier, and 248 is the electric current instrument. As well known, the polarograph is a kind of chemical analysis method where the surface area of the dropping mercury electrode to that of the counter electrode is made enough small, a DC voltage is applied to between the both electrodes mentioned above assuming that the phenomenon of polarization will occur only on the surface of said dropping mercury electrode, and any variations of Electrolytic Current i Voltage E as changing the applied voltage by inching are measured and dotted to form a curved graph thereby performing a quantitative or qualitative analysis.As a neck in practical cases, however, the potential of the merucry pool electrode will vary depending on the kinds of samples and the resistance of solution may become too large depending on the kinds of sample solutions, possibly producing any unexpected large errors between the intentionally applied voltage and the potential of dropping mercury electrode. For example, in case of analysis of the concentration of the oxygen dissolved in isopropyl alcohol by means of conventional polarograph, the curve of Electrolytic Current i Voltage E hereinafter referred to as i E curve determined will be as shown by A inFIG. 27. The curve A is much different from the typical reduction wave curve of oxygen expected and therefore it cannot be expected to make the qualitative analysis of oxygen with the half wave potential of the curve B. On the other hand, if adopting the method relating to this invention, it is possible to obtain the typical i E curve as shown by B in FIG 27. In the IFG., the minute solid state reference electrode is provided near said working electrode. Dropping mercury electrode a current feedback is applied in negative direction by means of the negative feedback amplifier 247 so that the potential difference of said working electrode 241 to said reference electrode will be equal to the potential of the potential applying device 245 and thus an electrolysis is to be made with the negative feedback current mentioned above, thereby capable of carrying out the electrolysis providing an ideal potential. The i E curve determined by means of the system mentioned above will be as shown by B in FIG. 27, which is an ideal curve indicating the reduction wave of oxygen. In the embodiment of this invention mentioned above, it is not required to provide a mercury pool electrode, etc. having enough large surface area as the counter electrode and besides it has such a convenience that previously determining the potential of said reference electrode 244 to the reference hydrogen gas electrode will allow the value of potential on the abscissa relating to the curve B shown in FIG. 27 to give the potential of said working electrode without modifying it independent of any kinds of sample solutions. Next, an embodiment of this invention applied to an electrolytic sys tem is to be described as follows In conventional technique for electrolysis, generally a pair of electrodes are inserted into an electrolytic solution and a DC voltage is given to between the electrodes to make the anion contained in the solution to deposit on the anode and on the other hand to make the cation in the same to deposit on the cathode. For example, in case of electrolysis for plating nickel by means of the wet type metal plating method, a metal to be plated with nickel and the counter electrode are to be inserted into an electrolyte comprising nickel ion and several volts of DC current is given to between them assigning said counter electrode to be the anode to make the nickel ion to deposit on the surface of said metal.In this case, however, the given voltage not necessarily will not determine the potential of said metal to be plated and it is the sum of the potential of counter electrode, the drop of iR voltage due to solution resistance, and the potential of said metal to be plated therefore, the potential of said metal to be plated will fluctuate due to any variation of the composition of the electrolyte as the plating work proceeds The resistance will increase , any variation of the resistance of solution caused by any heat generation involved, and or any variation of the potential of counter electrode caused by any anion deposited on the same counter electrode, etc. consequently, dropping of the potential of said metal to be plated will reduce the amount of nickel deposition, wasting electric current more and more.On the other hand, increasing the voltage to be applied will adversely let any metal ions co existing with nickel in the electrolyte which will be reduced by more negative potential than nickel deposit on said metal together with nickel, deteriorating the quality of nickel plating to be made thereon. Therefore, it is recommended to proceed with the plating work by setting forward the electrolysis in such a way as restricting the potential to be a little larger than that for depositing the required ion. FIG. 28 shows a constant potential electrolytic system which functions to easily make a precise electrolysis, eliminating the above mentioned difficulty where, 261 is the electrolytic cell, 262 is the electrolyte, 263 is the working electrode In case of plating, it is to be a metal to be plated , 264 is the counter electrode, 265 is the above mentioned solid state reference electrode, 266 is the electrolytic potential setter, 267 is the voltage amplifier, 268 is the electrolytic potential control device, and 269 is the electrolytic current source.In said system, the potential between said reference electrode 265 and said working electrode 263 is so automatically controlled by means of said potential control device 268 as to be equal to the potential set by means of said potential setter 268 independent of these factors such as the kind of electrolyte, the concentration of the same, the magnitude of electrolytic current, and or the kind of counter electrode. As mentioned above in detail, the ion inactive electrode provided with diaphragm relating to this invention has completely eliminated such necks the calomel electrode or the silver silver chloride electrode having been adopted as the reference electrode conventionally in electrochemical analyses has as the unstability of reference potential due to existence of any liquid junction and the inconvenience of handling thereof by means of such a special molecular structure of the surface of said polymer membrane as preventing any electron exchange reactions between said membrane and the ions contained in a sample solution kept in contact therewith. Specially such a special reference electrode as provided with a polymer membrane synthesized with the plasma polymerization method not only has completely eliminated the unstability of reference potential due to existence of any liquid junction as seen in conventional reference electrodes for general voltammetry analyses and for each kind of electrolysis but also has made it possible to handle itself easily and to miniaturize the size thereof. Any reference electrode is indispensable for measurement of the potential of a single electrode Ion selective electrode specially in the field of potentiometry and thus said reference electrode relating to this invention will be sure to display the outstanding advantageous effects mentioned above to completely eliminate such necks conventional reference electrodes have as the unstability thereof and the uncertainness of measurement. POSSIBLE AVAILABILITY FOR INDUSTRIES Aforesaid reference electrodes according to this invention will possibly be much available broadly for these fields such as analytical chemistry, electrolytic industry, and diagnostic systems in medical science, etc.