# Method for connecting a semiconductor chip to a substrate and such connection.

## Abstract
A semiconductor chip 14 is flip chip mounted to con ductors on a substrate by depositing layers of chromium 24 , copper 26 , and gold 28 on the chip or the substrate , forming solder mounds 30 on said layers, and reflowing the mounds before or during the flip chip mounting. Prefer ably, the copper layer is about 0.08 0.25 µm and the gold layer no more than 0.25 µm thick. Limiting the thickness of these layers reduces mechanical stress in the connection and these avoids cracking of the parts.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A joint for a solder mound 30 electrically and mechanically connecting a semiconductor integrated circuit chip 14 to conductors 10 on a substrate 12 , said joint comprising sequential layers of chromium 24 , copper 26 , and gold 28 , characterized in that said copper layer has a thickness in the range of 0.08 0.25 pm 800 2500 2. An electrical and mechanical connection between a semiconductor chip 14 and conductors 10 on a substrate 12 , said connection comprising a solder mound 30 and a joint affixing said solder mound to said chip and or said substrate, said joint including sequential layers of chromium 24 , copper 26 , and gold 28 , said copper layer being about 0.08 to 0.25 pm 800 2500 i thick. 3. The joint of claim 1 or 2, wherein said gold layer 28 is no more than 0.25 Fm 2500 i thick. 4. The joint of claim 1 or 2, wherein said joint is affixed to said chip 14 , further including an aluminum land 18 disposed on said chip. 5. A method for electrically and mechanically connecting an integrated circuit chip 14 to conductors 10 on a substrate 12 , characterized by the following steps a. sequentially depositing layers of chromium 24 , copper 26 , and gold 28 , said copper layer being about 0.08 to 0.25 800 2500 i and said gold layer.prefer ably being no more than 0.25 um 2500 i thick b. forming a lead tin solder mound 30 on said deposited layers 24 28 , said mound preferably having about 125 pm total thickness c. ref lowing the solder mound, converting said deposited layers into a layer of inter metallics 29 and d. mounting said chip 14 to said substrate 12 . 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said reflowing and said mounting steps are combined.

## Description
METHOD FOR CONNECTING A SEMICONDUCTOR CHIP TO ASUBSTRATE AND SUCH CONNECTIONThis invention relates to a means for forming interconnections between an insulator substrate and a thin film device or chip in particular to an improved means for interconnecting.The assembly of circuit chips formed with thin films and substrates generally involves interconnections by means of soldering or brazing. In presently known thin film circuit assemblies, tensile stresses are imposed by thin film composite metallurgy on the insulator substrate, which may be formed from sputtered silicon dioxide, or alumina, or a ceramic or glass, by way of example. Such stresses may lead to cracking or spalling of the substrate surface, especially if the substrate is a brittle material. The stresses can also preload the surface in tensile stress wherein a small, additional imposed stress, such as that derived from differential expansion, or thermal cycling, or impact shock, will easily fracture the surface.Applicants have recognized that the stresses, initially within acceptable bounds, can change markedly after depositing the solder or braze alloy, by formation of intermetallic compounds at the interface between the solder and terminal metals. The intermetallic compound formed by conversion of the thin film metals has an entirely different structure, volume and expansion coefficient than the component metals from which it was produced. One example is the assembly of a chip device to a substrate employing a lead tin solder pad, and chromium copper gold terminal metallurgy on sputtered silicon dioxide insulator. As evaporated, such a structure is stable, but after reflow and joining of the device to the substrate, structural changes occur which make the underlying silicon dioxide prestressed to such an extent that it is very susceptible to cracking.It is further recognized that the structure of the final terminal depends not only upon the starting terminal structure at the device, but also the substrate. For example, elements such as Au, from the substrate terminal, can upon reflow and solidification, dissolve, migrate to the chip terminal, and epitaxially solidify out asAuSn or AuCuSn intermetallics. Therefore, the final amount and distribution and stress level need to be specified for the resultant joint to be stable. The simplest and most effective way to achieve this end is to restrict the total amount of copper and gold in the starting terminals plus solder, so that upon reaction and moving around, even if they were all concentrated in one terminal, there would not be enough intermetallic to cause a stress problem.Once recognized that it is the final intermetallic distribution which is important, one can envision other approaches to the problem. For example, one could try to restrict the amount of intermetallic which forms by using a very short cycle time for reflow and joining.This is deemed impractical in light of the extreme thermal shock which would occur should such a rapid cycle be accomplished. One could break up the intermetallic by multiple reflow induced spalling or solution assisted spalling by addition of other elements to the joint, such as Pd. One could impose a temperature gradient while the pad is molten to drive the stress forming elements to the cold side of the joint multilayer ceramic MLC sidej where the stress may not be a problem see Fig. 3 . U. S. Patents 3 436 818 and 3 508 118 describe a circuit structure and method of fabricating a bonded joint that are similar to the structure and method described in this application, except that applicants are disclosing a modification in structure and an improvement in structural stability not taught in the patents.Any metal in a joint that reacts with another metal in a substantially liquid state in soldering or brazing operations and forms a hard and brittle surface that epitaxially deposits and remains contiguous with a substrate may prestress a joint and the insulator to such extent that cracking may ensue. To avoid such cracking, applicants have recognized the requirement for restriction of the amounts of such materials in the joint.In principle, the invention consists in limiting the thickness of at least the Cu layer when depositing sequential layers of Cr, Cu, and Au on a conductor pattern for bonding chips to a substrate.An embodiment of the invention will be described in detail with reference to the drawing in which FIG. 1 is a plan view of a microelectronic dielec tric substrate with a conductive pattern formed thereon FIG. 2 is a sectional view, partially broken away, of a chip with a solder contact prior to reflow andFIG. 3 is a sectional view illustrating a completed connection of a chip and a substrate, in accordance with the invention. With reference to the drawing, a pattern of conductors 10 is formed on a surface of a substrate 12, such as multi layer ceramic MLC . The conductor pattern includes connection points for receiving semiconductor circuit chips 14, and the conductors 10, which may be made of molybdenum for example, are connected to terminals 32 of NiAu in a well known manner.During fabrication of each chip 14, an aluminum land 18 is deposited on each semiconductor region of the chip to provide an ohmic contact. A layer 20 of SiO2 is then deposited over the surface of the chip 14 to provide environmental protection. Via apertures 22 are etched in the SiO2 layer 20 directly over the aluminum land 18 to expose the land for subsequent metallization steps.In this embodiment, the metallization steps include vacuum deposition of successive thin film layers of chromium 24, copper 26 and gold 28 to provide electrical contact to the aluminum land 18. The chromium film which is between 0.12cm and 0.18 pm 1200 i 1800 i thick serves as an adhesive and provides a glass to metal seal and protects the contact area from the environment. The copper and gold layers enable the adherence of metals to the chromium sealing film 24.Thereafter, solder mounds 30 formed from lead and tin of approximately 125pm total thickness are vacuum deposited through a mask to contact the gold layer 28.The solder mounds 30 serve to space the chip 14 from the substrate 12 while providing good mechanical and electrical interconnection between the chip 14 and the conductive pattern 10. After vacuum deposition of the solder mounds 30, the entire assembly is fired so that the solder mounds reflow. As a result, the relatively low stressed layers of copper 26 and gold 28 are converted into highly stressed layers of intermetallics 29 formed ofAu and Cu with Sn, such as Cu3Sn, AuCuSn, AuSn. The substrate 12 is then cleaned and the conductor pattern 10 is subjected to a fluxing process so that the chip devices 14 may be suitably joined to the substrate.The chip devices are fused to the substrate by a reflow operation, followed by cooling of the substrate at the end of the heating cycle to solidify the solder.In an implementation of this invention, the copper layer 26, which is formed with the metallized terminal that also includes chromium 24 and gold 28, is deposited to a thickness of 0.08 0.25 pm 800 2500 A . Applicants have discovered that by restricting the amount of elements such as Au, Cu and Sn in the joint that can epitaxially deposit intermetallic and remain contiguous off the surface of the converted solderable film, i.e., by making the copper and gold layers thin within the specified critical range, the intermetallic stress that occurs with the conversion of the copper and gold layers as a result of solder reflow and joining of a chip device to the substrate is substantially reduced or eliminated. By virtue of depositing the copper layer to a thickness of 0.08 0.25 pm 800 250a there is a major reduction in susceptibility to cracking of the quartz insulator. Furthermore, to enhance the interconnection, the gold layer 28 in combination with any Au in the substrate is formed to a total thickness of no more than 0.25 pm 2500 i . By virtue of restricting the amount of copper and gold in the solder joint to the specified layer thick nesses, a substantial reduction in the incidence of cracking of the substrates employed for supporting circuit chip devices has been realized.An alternative approach for preventing the cracking of the substrate during solder bonding of a semiconductor chip to a substrate is to spall off the intermetallic material, and to disperse the material into the solder by extended reflow. However, this approach is not as effective as controlling the amount of copper and gold in the interconnection between a chip device and a substrate.With reference to FIG. 3, it should be noted that the critical location of intermetallics for stressing of SiO2 appears at area A. If the intermetallics were at areas B or C, the stressing problem would not develop.