# Noise reduction device of automotive vehicle.

## Abstract
A noise reduction device for an automotive vehicle 14 , comprises an under cover 10 fixedly disposed directly under an engine 12 supported by a vehicle body 14a , each under cover 10 including a plurality of louver boards 24 each of which is inclined downwardly in the direction toward a vehicle front F , thereby making engine noise harmless while improving heat release of the engine.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A noise reduction device of an automotive vehicle 14 having an engine 12 and a vehicle body 14a , said noise reduction device comprising an under cover 10 fixedly disposed under said engine and including a plurality of louver boards 24 , each louver board 24 being inclined downwardly in the direction toward the front section F of the vehicle body 14a . Figs. 5 8, 11 2. A noise reduction device as claimed in Claim 1, wherein each louver board 24 elongates in the direction of the width of the vehicle body 1aha . Figs. s 8, 11 3. A noise reduction device as claimed in Claim 2, wherein said under cover 10 includes first and second parallelly elongated support members 16,18 for supporting said louver boards 24 , each support member extending in the direction of the length of the vehicle body, the opposite ends of each louver board 24 being securely connected to said first and second support members 16,18 , respectively. Fig. 5 8 4. A noise reduction device as claimed in Claim 3, wherein said under cover 10 includes first and second brackets t20,22 fastened to said first and second support members, respectively, and securely connected to the vehicle body 14a . Fig. 5 8 5. A noise reduction device as claimed in Claim 2, wherein said under cover 10 includes an integral panel member in which said louver boards 24t are formed, each louver board being formed by making a cut generally in the form of a counterpart of brackets in said integral panel member, and subsequently bending downwardly a part, of said panel member, inside said cut. Fig. 11

## Description
NOISE REDUCTION DEVICE OF AUTOMOTIVE VEHICLEBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 1. Field of the Invention This invention relates to an improvement in a noise reduction device for an automotive vehicle, and more particularly to an engine under cover for making engine noise harmless. 2. Description of the Prior Art In connection with noise reduction of automotive vehicles, an under cover is installed right under an engine so as to prevent engine noise from emitting outside of the vehicle. Such a conventional undercover is usually formed of â flat plate member and securely connected to side members of a vehicle body.However, this unavoidably decreases air flow amount supplied through a part under the engine, thereby deteriorating heat release of the engine, which might cause engine overheat.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION In accordance with the present invention, a noise reduction device for an automotive vehicle comprises an under cover which is fixedly disposed under an engine.The under cover includes a plurality of louver boards each of which is inclined downwardly in the direction toward a vehicle front so that an opening is defined between the neighbouring louver boards. Therefore, engine noise emission is directed toward ambient air forward of the vehicle front to make it harmless, while improving heat release of the engine.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS The features and advantages of the noise reduction device of the present invention will be more clearly appreciated from the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which like reference numerals designate like parts and elements, and in which Fig. 1 is a schematic side view of an automotive vehicle provided with a conventional under cover Fig. 2 is a sectional view taken in the direction of arrows substantially along the line II IS of Fig. 2 Fig. 3 is a perspective view of the conventional under cover of Fig. 1 Fig. 4 is a schematic side view of an automotive vehicle provided with another conventional under cover Fig. 5 is a schematic side view of an automotive vehicle provided with a preferred embodiment of a noise reduction device or under cover in accordance with the present invention Fig. 6 is a front view of the under cover of Fig. 5 Fig. 7 is a side view of the under cover of Fig. 5 Fig. 8 is a perspective view of the under cover of Fig. 5 Fig. 9 is a graph showing the measured data of automotive vehicle noise Fig. 10 is a graph showing the measured data of engine oil temperature and engine coolant temperature of automotive vehicles and Fig. ii is a perspective view of another embodiment of the under cover of the present invention.DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION To facilitate understanding the present invention, a brief reference will be made to an example of conventional under covers for noise reduction, depicted in Figs. 1 and 3. Referring to Figs. 1 to 3, an automotive vehicle 1 is provided with an under cover 2 which is generally flat and of the shape of a plate. The under cover 2 is located generally horizontally and right under an engine 2 mounted on a vehicle body. The under cover 2 is fastened to side members 5 through brackets 4 attached opposite side ends of the under cover 2, which side members 5 constitute part of the vehicle body.Thus, the under cover functions to prevent engine noise from emitting outside of the vehicle. However, such an under cover is so arranged as to envelope the engine 3 from the engine downward direction as much as possible in order to improve noise insulation effect, and therefore the amount of air flowing through a part right under the engine is decreased owing to the plate type flat under cover 2. This deteriorates heat radiation from the engine 3, thereby causing engine overheat. Apart from the above, Fig. 4 shows another example conventional under cover. In this example, a sound absorbing material 7 is securely attached on the upper surface of an under cover 8 which upper surface faces to an engine 9. Even with the thus arranged under cover 8 provided with the sound absorbing material 7, oil dropped from the engine 3 adheres onto the soundabsorbing material 7 and therefore there is a possibility of causing vehicle fire. In view of the above description of the conventional under covers, reference is now made to Figs. 5 to 11, and more specifically to Figs. 5 to 8y wherein a preferred embodiment of a noise reduction device or under cover of the present invention is illustrated by the reference numeral 10. The under cover 10 is located directly under an internal combustion engine 12 mounted on a vehicle body 14a of an automotive vehicle 14. The under cover 10 is disposed generally horizontal, i.e., parallel with the ground not shown on which the automotive vehicle 14 runs. The under cover 10 includes two support plate members 16, 18 which are located parallel with each other and extend in the fore and aft direction or along the length of the vehicle body 14a.These support plate members 16, 18 are provided respectively with brackets 20, 22 which are fastened respectively with two side members not shown forming part of the vehicle body 14a. A plurality of louver boards 24 are securely supported between the two support plate members 16, 18. Each louver board 24 is of the flat rectangular plate type and elongates in the direction of the width of the vehicle body 14a or perpendicularly to the support plate members 16, 18 as viewed from the direction of the engine 12. Each louver board 24 is inclined downwardly in the direction toward a vehicle front F or the front section of the vehicle body 14a so that the louver boards 24 are parallel with each other. As shown inFig. 8, each louver board 24 is formed with two opposite end edges no numerals of which respective upper portions are securely connected to the respective opposite side edges of the two support plate members 16, 18.Additionally, as seen from the Figures, the louver boards 24 are disposed at equal suitable intervals so that a suitable space is defined between the neighboring louver boards 24. The operation of the thus arranged under cover 10 will be discussed hereinafter. In the automotive vehicle 14 provided with the under cover 1O, the noise generated from the engine 12 reaches the maximal level during engine acceleration.In general, such engine noise is emitted outside of the vehicle 14 through a space between the vehicle body 14a and the ground between front and rear wheels of the vehicle 14. Accordingly, pedestrians and the like feel the thus emitted engine noise in the maximum level when the vehicle 14 passes by the pedestrians and the like. However, according to the present invention, the majority of noise generated from the engine 12 strokes against the surfaces of the respective downwardly inclined louver boards 24 so that its propagation or radiation direction is changed along the inclined surface of each louver board 24. Then, the engine noise is emitted or radiated with directivity toward the ground in front of the vehicle 14. It will be understood that such forward noise emission does not exert any baneful influence upon social environment because, the engine noise is radiated toward the front of the vehicle and therefore the thus radiated noise hardly reach the pedestrians and the like even when the vehicle 14 passes by them. Thus, the noise from the engine can be effectively made harmless. Besides, if engine oil drops and adheres onto the louver boards 24, the engine oil can easily drop onto the ground by virtue the inclination of the louver boards 24 of the undercover 10, thereby omitting the possibility of vehicle fire due to engine oil burning.Furthermore, during vehicle cruising, air stream indicated by arrows W in Fig. 5 is supplied inside of the under cover 10 through each space formed between the neighbouring louver boards 24, so as to cool the engine 12, thus effectively preventing engine overheat. Fig. 9 shows a noise reduction effect of the undercover 1Q shown in Figs. 5 to 8 in comparison with the conventional under cover shown in Figs. 1 to 3. InFig. 9, a dotted curve A indicates noise levels from various sections in the vehicle 14 provided with the under cover 10 shown in Figs. 5 to 8, while a solid curve B indicates those in the vehicle 1 provided with the conventional under cover 2 shown in Figs. 1 to 3. For the purpose of comparison, a triangle C indicates the noise level from an engine of an automotive vehicle which is not provided with any under cover for engine noise insulation. It is to be noted that the same vehicle was used in experiments to obtain the data of curves A and B, and the triangle C.The graph of Fig. 9 demonstrates the fact that the under cover of the present invention is considerably excellent in engine noise reduction effect as compared with the conventional under cover which is, in turn, effective as compared with the case without the under cover. Fig. 10 shows the comparison in heat release preventing effect between the under cover of the present inention and the conventional under cover. In Fig 10, two dotted curves A1 and A2 indicate engine oil temperature within an oil pan and coolant temperature at the inlet of a radiator, respectively, of the engine of the vehicle provided with the under cover shown in Figs. 5 to 8 while two solid curves B1 and B2 indicate those, respectively, of the engine of the vehicle provided with the conventional under cover 2 shown in Figs. 1 to 3. It is to be noted that the same vehicle having the same engine was used in the experiments to obtain the data of the four curves in Fig. 10.The graph of Fig. 10 exhibits the fact that both the engine oil temperature and engine coolant temperature in case using the under cover of the present invention are lower than in the case using the conventional under cover. It will be appreciated from this, that the under cover of the present invention is less in heat release preventing effect and therefore excellent in an effect for causing engine heat to release outside of the vehicle. Fig. 11 illustrates another embodiment of the present invention, in which the under cover 10 is formed of a piece of integral panel. In this embodiment, a plurality of cuts in the form of the counterpart of square brackets are formed in the integral panel, and thereafter sections surrounded by respective cuts are bent downwardly to form a plurality of louver boards 24 as shown in Fig 11. Each louver board 24 is inclined downwardly in the direction toward the vehicle front, and extends in the direction of the width of the vehicle body 14a. It will be understood that such an under cover 24 can be made merely by modifying a conventional under cover as shown in Fig. 3, without production cost increase and weight increase. As appreciated from the above, according to the present invention, the under cover is formed with a plurality of louver boards each of which is inclined downwardly in the direction toward the vehicle front.Therefore, noise generated in the engine can be certainly made harmless, and the heat release of the engine can be improved, while omitting the possibility of causing vehicle fire.