# Organophosphonate co ester, stabiliser composition containing it and synthetic resin stabilised therewith.

## Abstract
New polyhydric phenol coesters are disclosed of polyhydric phenols, having 2 to 3 phenolic hydroxyl groups and 1 to 3 benzenoid rings, with carbonic acid and an organophosphonic acid having linked to phosphorus an alkyl, aryl, aralkyl or alkaryl group optionally substituted with a phenolic hydroxyl group. The new coesters have molecular weights up to a maximum of about 10,000, preferably from 1000 to 9000, and are highly effective stabilizers for a variety of synthetic resins. Stabilizer compositions comprising a polyhydric phenol coester and a known polymer stabilizer, as well as synthetic resins stabilized with such stabilizer compositions, are also disclosed.

## Claims
WE CLAIM 1 As a new composition of matter, a coester having a molecular weight below 10,000, of at least one polyhydric phenol having 2 to 3 phenolic hydroxyl groups and 1 to 3 non condensed benzenoid rings, with carbonic acid and an organophosphonic acid linked to phosphorus through carbon an organic group having 1 to about 25 carbon atoms and not more than one phenolic hydroxyl group. 2 A coester according to Claim 1 in which the molar proportions of carbonic acid to organophosphonic acid range from 20 1 to 1 20. 3 A coester according to Claim 1 having a molekular weight between 1000 and about 9000. 4 A coester according to Claim 1 in which the organophosphonic acid is an alkanephosphonic acid. 5 A coester according to Claim 1 in which the organophosphonic acid is an aromatic hydrocarbon phosphonic acid. 6 A coester according to Claim 1 in which the organophosphonic acid is an alkylhydroxyphenylalkanephosphonic acid. 7 A coester according to Claim 1 in which the polyhydric phenol is 2,5 di t butylhydroquinone. 8 A coester according to Claim 1 in which the polyhydric phenol has 3 benzenoid rings in the molecule. 9 A coester according to Claim 1 in which the polyhydric phenol is an alkylidenebisphenol. 10 A coester according to Claim 1 In which the polyhydric phenol Is a bis phenol with tvO benzenoid rings linked through sulfur. 11 A coester according to Claim 1 having the formulaEMI50.1 tn which R is an alkyl, cycloalkyl, aralkyl, aryl , or alkaryl group or the group A OH m 1 X Independently at each occurrance isEMI50.2 orEMI50.3 .provided that at least one X isEMI50.4 and at least one X isEMI50.5 A is a residue of a dihydric or trihydric phenol R is a hydrogen atom or X O R R is alkyl, cycloalkyl, aralkyl, aryl, alkaryl orEMI50.6 R1 is an alkyl group, R2 and R3 are hydrogen or alkyl, a Is an integer from 1 to 8, m is zero or one, and n is an integer from 1 tp 20. 12 A stabilizer composition capable of increasing the resistance to deterioration on heating of a synthetic resin, comprising a coester according to Claim I and at least one synthetic resin stabilizer selected from the group consisting of thiodipropionate esters, 1,2 epoxides, organic phosphite, polyhydric alpghols, polyhydric alcohol 3 alkylthiopropionates, ultraviolet stabilizers, heavy metal.deactivators. and barium, calcium, magnesium, nickel, ztronilum, tin, and zinc salts of monocarioxylic acids having 6 to 24 carbon atoms. 13 A stabilizer composltlon according to Claim 12 in which the synthetic resin stabilizer is a thiodipropionate ester. 14 A stabil izer composition according to Claim 12 In which the synthetic resin stabilizer is a 1,2 epoxide. 15 A stabilizer composition according to Claim 12 in which the synthetic resin stabilizer is a 2,2,6,6 tetraalkylpiperidine 4 alcohol carboxylic acid ester having a piperidine nitrogen content from 2 to 8S by weight. 16 A stabilized synthetic resin composition comprising r synthetic resin and 0.001 to 5 by weight of the resin of a coester according to Claim 1. 17 A stabilized synthetic resin composition according to Claim 16 In which the synthetic resin Is selected from the group consisting of olefin polymers, vinyl chloride polymers, acrylon itrile copolyleers and polyesters. New Patent Claims t. As a new composition of matter, a coester having a molecular weight below 10,000, of at least one poly hydric phenol having 2 to 3 phenolic hydroxyl groups and 1 to 3 non condensed benzenoid rings, with carbon ic acid and an organophosphonic acid having linked to phosphorus through carbon an organic grove having 6 to about 25 carbon atoms and one phenol hydroxyl group, in which the organophosphonic acid is a mono phenolic derivative of an aromatic hydrocarbon phosphonic acid, of an arylalkanephosphonic acid, or of an alkylaromatic hydrocarbonphosphonic acid and the molar proportions of carbonic acid to organo phosphonic acid range from 20 1 to 1 20. 2. A coester according to claim 1 having a molecular weight between 1000 and about 9000. 3. A coester according to claim 1 in which the organo phosphonic acid is an alkylhydroxyphenylalkane phosphonic acid. 4. A coester according to claim 1 in which the poly hydric phenol is 2,5 di t butylhydroquinon. 5. A coester according to claim 1 in which the poly hydric phenol has 3 benzenoid rings in the molecule. 6. A coester according to claim 1 in which the poly hydric phenol is an alkylidenebisphenol. 7. A coester according to claim 1 in which the poly hydric phenol is a bis phenol with two benzenoid rings linked through sulfur. 8, A coester according to claim 1 having the formulaEMI53.1 in which R is an alkyl, cycloalkyl, aralkyl, aryl or alkaryl group or the group A OH m 1 X idependently at each occurrance isEMI53.2 orEMI53.3 , provided that as least one X isEMI53.4 and at least one XEMI53.5 A is a residue of a dihydric or trihydric phenol R is a hydrogen atom or X O R R isEMI53.6 R1 is an alkyl group, R2 and R3 are hydrogen or alkyl, a is an integer from 1 to 8, m is zero or one, and n is an integer from 1 to 20. 9. A coester according to claim 8 having the formula EMI53.7 in which X represents a tertiary butyl group 10. A coester according to claim 8 having the formulaEMI54.1 in which X represents a tertiary butyl group. 11. A stabilizer composition capable of increasing the resistance to deterioration on heating of a synthe tic resin, comprising a coester having a molecular weight below 10,000, of at least one polyhydric phenol having 2 to 3 phenolic hydroxyl groups and 1 to 3 non condensed benzenoid rings, with carbonic acid and an organophosphonic acid having linked to phosphorus through carbon an organic group having 1 to about 25 carbon atoms and not more than one phenolic hydroxyl group, in which the molar pro portions of carbonic acid to organophosphonic acid range from 20 1 to 1 20, and per part of coester from 1 to about 30 parts of at least one synthetic resin stabilizer selected from the group consisting of thiodipropionate esters, 1,2 epoxides, organic phosphites, polyhydric alcohols, polyhydric alcohol 3 alkylthiopropionatest ultraviolet stabilizers, heavy metal deactivator s, and barium, calcium, magnesium, nickel, strontium, tin, and zinc salts of monocarboxylic acids having 6 to 24 carbon atoms. 12. A stabilizer c mposition according to claim 11 in which the synthetic resin stabilizer is a thio dipropionate ester. 13. A stabilizer composition according to claim 11 in which the synthetic resin stabilizer is a 1 ,2 epoxide. 14. A stabilizer composition according to laim 11 in which the synthetic resin stabilizer is a 2,2,6,6 tetraalkylpiperidine 4 alcohol carboxylic acid ester having a piperidine nitrogen content from 2 to 8 by weight. 15. A stabilized synthetic resin composition comprising a synthetic resin and 0.001 to 5 by weight of the resin of a coester according to claim 1. 16. A stabilized synthetic resin composition according to claim 15 in which the synthetic resin is selected from the group consisting of oleo in polymers, vinyl chloride polymers, acrylonitrile copolymers and polyesters.

## Description
ORGANOPHOSPHONATE COESTER STABILIZERS Backerounl of the invention This invention relates to a new class of polyhydric phenol co esters and to synthetic resin stabilizer compositions comprising these coesters as well as to synthetic resins stabilized with such coesters and with stabilizer conpositions comprising these coesters along with known polymer stabilizers. The usefulness of phenols In stabilizer compositions for synthetic resins was recognized early In the development of polymer stabil station by additives, as disclosed for example by F. Duggan In U. 5 Patent 2,126,179 of August 9, 1938, W. Leistner in U. S. Patent 2,564,646 of August 14, 1951, and W. Fischer In U. S. Patent 2,625,521 of January 13, 1953, in the stabilization of polyvinyl chloride resin compositions. Over the years, phenolic stabilizers have been used In an expanding varlety of synthetic resins and an enormous number of disclosures of new phenolic stabilizers has accumulated Rather than attempt to list every one of these disclosures, A. D1Battista In U.S. Patent 3,824,192 of July 16, 1974 and H. Minagawa In U.5. Patent 3,849,370 of November 19, 1974 and in U. S. Patent 3,869,423 of March 4, 1975 are cited as summaries of a very large part of the existing art of phenolic stabilizers. Phenolic stabilizers are elso employed in conjunction with other stabilizers such as esters of thiodipropionic acid or organic phosphites in the stabilization of polypropylene and other synthetic resins against degradation upon heating or ageing under etmosphcric conditions. Disclosures by C. Tholstrup, U.S. Patents 3,033,814 of nay 8, 1962 and 3,160,680 of December B, 1964 L. Roynar, U.S. Patent 3,181,971 May 4, 1965 D. Bown, U.S. Patent 3,21.2,135 of March 22, 1966 S. Hurdock, U.S. Patent 3,245,949 of April 12, 1966 11. Hagomeyer, U.S. Patent 3,282,890, of November 1, 1966 J.Casey, U.S. Patents 3,496,128 of February 17, 1970 and 3,58,657 of June 22, 1971 H. Hinagawa, U.S. Patents 3,549,572 of December 22, 1970, and 3,629,189 of December 21,1971, and 3,673,152 of June 27, 1972, 3,849,370 of November 19, 1974 and 3,869,423 of March 4,1975 W. Drake U.S. Patent 3,624,026 of November 30, 197t A. DiBattista, U.S. Patent 3,824,192 of July 16, 1974 B. Cook, ü.S. Patent 3,850,877 and H. Heller U.S. Patent 3,850,918 of November 26, 1974 M. Dexter U.S. Patents 3,856,748 of December 24, 1974, and 3,888,824 of June 10, 1975, and 3,903,160 of September 2, 1975 P. Klemchuk of U.S. Patent 3,860,558 of January 14, 1975 M. Rasberger U.S. Patents 3,867,340 of February 18,1975 and 3,901,931 of August 26, 1975 ii. Brunetti U.S. Patents 3,867,337 of February 18, 1975 and 3,873,498 of March 25, 1975 S. Rosenberger U.S. Patents 3,884,874 of Hay 20, 1975 and 3,887,518 of June 3, 1975 C. Romey U.S.Patent 3,907,803 of September 23, 1975 are representative of a very large number of stabilizer combinations including dilaurilyl and distearyl thiodi propionate or other diallyl thiodipropionates along with poly bydriephenols and sometimes organic phosphites, metallic stearates, ultraviolet absorbers, nickel compounds, and heavy metal dcactiv for use in polypropylene and other polyolefins. Disclosures by R. Workholser, U.S. Patent 2,726,226 of December 6, 1975 1. Slyer et al, U.S. Patent 2,985,617 of Hay 23, 1961 L. Friedman, U.S. Patent 3,039,993 of June 19, 1962 M. NudenSerg, U.S. Patent 3,080,338 of March 5, 1963 C. Fuchsman, U.S. Patent 3,082,187 o. March 19, 1963 H. Orloff ct al, U.S. Patent 3,115, 465 of December 24, 1963 A. Nicholson, U.S. Patent 3,167,526 of January 2G, 1965 A. Ilceker et al, U.S. Patents 3,149,093 of Setember 15, 1964, 3,244,650 of April 5, 1966 and 3,225,136 and 3,255,151 of June 7, 1966 C. Bown, U.S. Patent 3,352,820 of November 14, 1967 D. Miller, U.S.Patent 3,53 ,277 of October 20, 1970 J. Casey, U.S. Patent 3,586,657 of June 22, 1971 C. Abramoff,U.S. Patent 3,856,728 of December 24, 1974 M. Minagawa, U.S. Patents 3,869,423 of March 4, 1975 and 3,907,517 of September 23, 1975 andBritish Patents 846,684, 851,670, and 866,883 are representative of stabilizer combinations including organic phosphites, polyhydric phenols, and other active ingredients.As summarized in a publication by D. Plank and J. Floyd title ttpolycarbonates A New Concept in Stabilization for Polypropylene , meeting preprints, Society of Plastics Engineers, Houston, Texas,April 1975 pages 33 37 , there have long been several problems with using phenols as stabilizers despite their widespread use. Many phenol stabilizers are volatilized out of the polymer at high use temperatures Some phenol stabilizers are extractable under certain use conditions. The oxidative products of most phenols are highly colored, thus imparting a yellow color to the polymer. Many phenols are reactive towards acidic or basic residues in the polymer.Following are disclosures of suggested ways to overcome these problems.L. Friedman has disclosed in U.S. Patent 3,053,878 of September 11, 1962 a class of linear phosphite polymers having the formulaEMI3.1 in which Q is the alkylene or arylene portion of a dihydric alcohol or dihydric phenol. R. Morris et al. in U.S. Patent 3,112,286 ofNovember 26, 1963 disclosed phosphites having the formulaEMI3.2 in which R represents a bulky hydrocarbon group such as t butyl, t amyl, t hexyl, cyclohexyl, t pentyl, t octyl, phenyl, and the like R1 represents hydrogen and R R3 represents an alkyl group from 6 to 20 carbon atoms which is preferably in the meta or para position x represents a number of from 1 to 3 inclusive y represents a number of from 0 to 2 inclusive and the sum of the numerical value of xty is always exactly 3.D. Bown, U.S. Patent 3,297,631 of January 10, 1967 disclosed condensation products of phosphorus compounds with bisphenols and trisphenols which may be represented by the structures EMI4.1 Where X is selected from the following P OR P R EMI4.2 tb SEP K 0 tb SEP 0R SEP SEP 0R tb SEP SEP H SEP SEP OR SEP R SEP SEP OR SEP J tb and SEP V SEP is SEP selected SEP from SEP the SEP following SEP P OR 2 SEP P tb SEP and SEP S SEP O SEP SEP fro SEP the SEP fol wing SEP 3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP PR31 SEP P 0H 2 SEP N0i3 SEP o o SEP tb R Is hydrogen, alkyl of 1 to 16 carbon atoms or aryl or a combinattttr of these R is alkyl of 1 to 16 carbon atoms or aryl, and R is alkylidene of 1 to 16 carbon atoms or an aryl substituted alkylidene. C. Baranwachs, U.S. Patent 3,305,608 of February 21, 1967, disclosed phenolic phosphite useful s polymer stobilizers prepared by reacting a triorganophocite, a polyol, and an aromatic material having two to six phenolic hydroxyl groups at 60 180 C in specific proportions.G. Brindell, U.S. Patent 3,412,064 of November 19, 1968 disclosed phenolic phosphites represented by the general fonr.ula EMI5.1 where x Is from 1 to 3, y and z each fron 0 to 2, x y z 3, R is hydrogen or alkyl and Y Is hydroxyl or a group of the formulaEMI5.2 where R Is hydrogen or alkylM. Larrison, U.S. Patent 3,419,524 of December 31, 1968, disclosed phosphites useful as polymer stabilizers having the formula EMI5.3 where R1, R2, R4, R6, and Rj are aryl or haloaryl, and R3 and ore a polyalkylidone glycol or an alkylidene bisphenol or a hyhydrogenated olkylidcne bisphenol or a ring halogenated alkylidene bisphomol from which the two terminal hydrogenes have been re loved, D. Kouder et al, U.S.Patent 3,476,699 of November 4, 1969 and 3,655,832 of AprIl 11, 1972 disclosed organic phosphites containing n freo phenolic lydroxyl group and defiled by the formula EMI6.1 whereinEMI6.2 Is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and aliphatic, cycloaliphatic, aromatic, heterocycilc and Ar p Y Ar groups, taken In sufficient number to satisfy the valences of the two phoophite oxygen atoms Y is a polyvalent linking group selected from the group consisting of oxygen aliphatic, cycloaliphatic and aromatic hydrocarbon groups attached to each Ar group through a carbon atom not a number of an aromatic ring oxyaliphatic thioaliphatic, oxycycloaliphatic, thiocycloaliphatic heterociclyc oxyheterociclyc, tripheterociclyc, carbonyl, sulfinyl and sulfenyl groups Ar is a phenolic nucleus which can be phenyl or a polycarbociclyc group having condensed or separate phenyl rings each Ar group is either connccted through an oxygen atom to a phosphlte group or contains a free phenol Ic hydroxyl group, or both and p is a number, one or greater, and preferably from one to four, which defines the number of Ar groups linked to V. L. Friedman, U. S. Patent 3,516,963 of June 23, 1970, disclosedEMI6.3 tb phosphitos SEP having SEP the SEP formula tb SEP Oce. SEP Cl tb SEP u cIr Cl P ocuC clr tb SEP . SEP a tb where R is alkyl, alkayl, aryl, aralkyl, haloaryl, haloalkyl orEMI6.4 and n Is an Integer of at least 1. n can be 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 50, 100 or even more.D. Bown et al. in U.S. Patents 3,510,507 of May 5, 1970 and 3,691,132 of September 12, 1972 disclosed polyolefins stabilized with polyphosphites, polyphosphates, polyphosphonites, polyphosphonates, polyborates, polycarbonates, and polysilanes which are condensation products of a 4,4 bisphenol with a condensing or linking agent which may be of the ester type, such as the esters of triaryl or mixed aryl alkyl compounds, or the acid halide type.Bown s condensation product stabilizers have molecular weights between 600 and 8000 or higher and are described by the structural formulaEMI7.1 where X is selected from the group consisting of S , EMI7.2 C C, and C A C whereA is a Cl to C16 alkylene or an arylene Rt, R , R , and R are selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, C1 to C18 alkyls, and an aryl group Y is selected from the group of P OREMI7.3 andEMI7.4 where R is hydrogen, a C1 to C18 alkyl, or aryl EMI7.5 where m is O to 10, preferably 4 to 8,EMI8.1 where A is CH2 n S CH2 n or CH2 n S CH2 mS CH2 n where n is 0 to 10, preferably 2 and m is 0 to 10 prcfcrably 5 EMI8.2 where R is an alkyl, preferably methyl, and 2 isEMI8.3 where R , R , R , R , and X correspond respectively to theR ,R ,R ,R , and X previously selected then n has a valuc fra 1 to 05, or Z may b derived from the compound used to introduceY into the product when n has a value from 2 to 15, for example R or DR where R is hydrogen, an alkyl, or aryl.When Y in the formula of Bown s stabilizer IsEMI8.4 the stabilizer is a type of hydroxyaryl phosphite. Similarly, when Y in the formula isEMI8.5 the stabilizer is a hydroxyaryl carbonate. Bown s condensation products are described as especially effective in high molecular weight solid polyolefins when used together with a dialkyl sulfide costabilizer such os dilauryl thiodipropionate, distoaryl thiodipropionate, ditridecyl thio dipropionate, dicetyl sulfyde, bis tetradecylmercapto para xylylene, and 10,24 dithiotetracontane. J. Floyd et al in . S. Patent 4,032,510 of June 28, 1977 disclosed low molecular wclght polycarbonate esters of bisphenols such as 2,2 bis 3 t butyl 4 hydroxyphenylpropane and 4,4 butylidene bis 6 t butyl 3 methylphenol prepared in such a way as to contain few or no free phenolic hydroxyl groups as. being highly effective heat and light stabilizers for polyolefins and giving a synergistic effect with distearyl thiodipropionate, trips nonylphenyl phosphite, and distearyl pentserythritoidiphosphite.D. Plank and J. Floyd In the 1975 publication already cited have disclosed two general synthetic procedures for preparing stabilizer polycarbonates. They may be obtained by direct phosgenation of a bisphenol either in methylene chloride with pyridine as a catalyst or directly in pyridine. Using this procedure, a typical product obtained has the following formula EMI9.1 The authors did not state the nature of R or a value of n but did indicate that the molecular weight can be controlled easily by adding a modifier to the reaction mixture The nature of the modifier is not mentioned. The authors disclosed a range of molecular weights from 680 to 1952, with the highest molecular weight products providing the longest 150 C oven life In poiypropylene also contain ing a thioastor, distearyl thiodipropionate, The authors stated that when used alone, two products within their class of polycarbonates are not effective stabilizers, but they formed a very effective stabilizing system In combination with a thioester. In other disclosures of polyhydric phenol carbonate ester additives to synthetic resin compositions, H. Pewters In Cannon patent 1,146,251 of March 28, 1563 improved mechanical properties of polyolefins by adding 0,5 to50 2,2bis 4 hydroxyphenylpropane carbonic acid polyester. T. 5alto In U.S. Patent 3,364,281 ofJanuary 16, 1968 disclosed polyolefin fibers of improved dyeability containing I to 20 of polymer additive which can be a high molecular weight polyhydric phenol carbonate. Solvay etCle.In British Patent 1,135,976 of December 11, 1968 has disclosed the use of a high molecular weight bis hxdroxyphenyl propane phosgene condensatton product as an adjunct to the polymerization Initiator for the polymerization of ethylene.1. Ought In Japanese Patent 69 21,676 of September 16, 1969 Improved the smoothness of polyethylene terephthalate film byIncorporating a small percentage of polycarbonate. Z. Opritz inUSSR Patent 314,827 of September 21, 1971 disclosed improved heat resistance of polyamides prepared fran amino acids or lactams by addition of up to 10 of a polycarbonate having a formula OC6H4RC6H4O2C x where R is CH2, CMe2, or C CnH2n 1 2. Y. Umezewe in Japanese Kokal 72 34,744 of November 22, 1972 disclosed styreneacrylonitrille copolymer composition having improved moldabillity and mechanical properties with 5 to 40 polycarbonate resin.None of these disclosures relates to a coester of a polyhydric phenol with carbonic acid and a dicarboxylic acid or to a carbonate ester of molecular weight less than 10,000. Carbonate esters and carbonate dlcarboxylic acid coesters of poly hydric phenols are known In the form of high molecular weight materials that are useful as films, fibers, molded or extruded parts and surface coatings for use in structural, decorative and electrical applications, The extensive literature has been reviewed by L. Bottenbruch in Encyclopedla of Polymer Science and Technology N. salts, ed. Volume 10, pages 714 725 J. Wiley interscience publishers, New York 1969 . High mole cular weight coesters including aliphatic dicarboxylic acids In the polymer chain with polyhydric phenol carbonates have been disclosed by E. Coldberg, in U.S.Patents 3,020,331 and 3,030,335 of April 17, 1962, 3,161,615 of December 15, 1964, 3,169,121 ofFebruary 9, 1955, and 3,207,814 of September 21, 1965, N.Reinking In U. S. Patent 3,166,606 of January 19, 1965 and 11.Schnell In U. S. Patent 3,553,167 of January 5, 1971. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIOn In accordance with this invention, new polyhydric phenol coesters of polyhydric phenols having 2 to 3 phenol Ic hydroxyl groups and 1 to 3 non condensed benzenoid rings with carbonic acid and an organophosphonic acid having linked to phosphorus through carbon an organic group having 1 to about 25 carbon atoms and not more than one phenol Ic hydroxyl group are prepared. The coesters have molecular weights ranging up to a maximum of about 10,000, preferably from 1000 to about 9000 for highest effectiveness as ingredients of stabilizer compositions for synthetic resins. The molar proportions of the organophosphonic acid to the carbonic acid in the coester range from 20 1 to 1 20, preferably from 4 1 to 1 4.The coesters of the invention can contatn a single polyhydric phenol or a plurality of polyhydric phenols as well as a single organophosphonic acid or a plurality of organophosphonic acids. The terms organophosphonic acid and organopio sphonate ester are used to indicate acids and esters respectively characterized by phosphorus atoms each bonded to one carbon atom and three oxygen atoms. Synthetic resin stabilizer compositions comprising the coesters of this Invention contain at least one known polymer stabilizer aiong with one or more coesters according to this invention. The proportions of coester to known polymer stabilizer in such stabilizer compositions can range from 1 to 1 to about 1 to 30 by weight. A variety of synthetic resins is stabilized against the deleterious effects of heat or light by incorporating therein 0.001 to 5 parts by weight per 100 parts of synthetic resin of a coester according to this invention. DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTSEssential to the achievement of the unexpected effectivenessIn resin stabilizer compositions of the coesters of thisInvention are the presence in the molecule of both carbonate and organophosphonate ester structures and controlled molecular weight of the polyhydric phenol organophosphonic acid and carbonic acid coesters. There results from these essential features a minimal volatllity and leachability so that the stabilizing effectiveness manifested by the coesters Is maintained over long periods of time where resin compositions stabilized with the coesters are exposed to the auction of air, water, and chemical solutions at an elevated temperature.The polyhydric phenol organophosphonate carbonate coesters of this Invention are derived from carbonic acid, introduced into the molecule by a carbonylating agent such as an ester or acid chloride of carbonic acid at least one organophosphonic acid introduced into the molecule by way of an ester or acid chloride of the organophosphonic acid and a polyhydric phenol having two to three hydroxyl groups and one to three non condensed benzenoid rings which can be substituted with up to three alkyl, cycloalkyl. or aralkyl groups having 1 to 10 carbon atoms Organophosphonic acid carbonic acid coesters of polyhydric phenols having a hydrocarbon substituent such as t butyl or cyclohexyl positioned ortho to the phenolic hydroxyl In each benzenoid ring of the polyhydric phenol are preferred. The polyhydric phenol carbonate organophosphonate coesters of this invention are crystalline powders or grindable glassy solids. Unalike the many known polyhydric phenol carbonate resins and plastic. the coesters of the invention have by thenselves no useful rechanical strength which is probably a result of the entirely different molecular weight range of the coesters of this invention as contrasted to known polyhydric phenol carbonate esters whose molecular weiglit for useful mechanical strength in fibers. films, etc., ranges from a 30000 minimum to above 100000.The organophosphonic acids from which the polyhydric phenol carbonate organophosphonate coesters of this Invention are derived can be alkanephosphonic acids, cycloalkanephosphonic acids, arylalkanephosphonic acids, aromatic hjdrocarbonphosphonic acids, and alkylaroratic hydrocartonphosphonic acids in which the alkane, cycloalkane, arylalkane, aromatic hydrocarbon, and alkyiaroeatichydrocarbon groups are Inked to phosphorus through carbon. The arylalkanephosphonlc acids, aromatic hydrocarbon phosphonic acids, and alkyl aromatic hydrocarbonphosphonic acids can carry one phenolic hydroxyl group In the group linked to phosphorus through carbon. Alkanephosphonic acids have from 1 to about 25 carbon atoms and include rtthanephesphonic acid, ethanephosphonic acrid, n butanephosphonic acid. Isopentanephosphonic acid, 2 arhyl hexanephosphonic acid, 3,4 dimethylhexanephosphonic acid, n decanephosphonic acid, n hexadecanephosphonlc acid, n eicosanephosphonic acid, tetracosanephosphonic acid, and alkanephosphonic acids In which the alkane group is the residue of an oxo process derived alcohol such as n isodecyl , Isotridecyl , and isohexadecyl . Cycloalkanephosphonic acids have from 5 to about 25 carbon atoms and include cyclooentanephosphonic acid. methylcyclo pentanephosphonic acid, cyclohexanephosphonic acid, t butylcyclohexanephosphonic acid, cyclohexylcyclohexane phosphonic acid and cyclododecanephosphonic acid.Aromatic hydrocarbonphosphonic acids have from 6 to about 25 carbon atoms and Include benzenephosphonic acid. naphthalenephosphonic acid, dlphenylbenzenephosphonlc acid, and phenanthrenephosphonic acid and monophenolic derivatives thereof.Arylalkanephosphonic acids and alkylaromatic hydrocarbonphosphonic acids have 7 to about 25 carbon atoms and include p toluenephosphonic acid, benzylphosphonic acid. l phenylethanephosphonic acid xylene phosphonic acid, 6 phenylhexanephosphonic acid, dodecylbenzenephosphonic acid. p dodecyl benzyl phosphon ic acid, dlnonylbenzenephosphnic acid, and monophenolic derivatives such as 3 methyl 4 hydroxy 5 t butylbenzylphosphonic acid. In the polyhydric phenol organophosphonate carbonate esters of this invention, each organophosphonic acid group is linked to two esterifying groups, of which at least one Is a polyhydric phenol group. The second esterifying group can be a polyhyiric phenol group, as well as an alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, alkaryl or araikyl group having up to about 25 carbon atoms. Phosphorus carbon linked organophosphonic acids and esters are knoin and have been reviewed by G. n. Kosolapoff in Organophosphorus Compounds J. Wiley. New York,1950 pages 150 167 as well as by in Houben Weyl Methoden der Organischen Chemie G. Thieme Verlag. Stuttgart. Germany 1963, Vol.Part 1, pgs. 338 550. nomenclature, structure, properties, and synthetic methods are described. A preferred class of polyhydric phenol carbonate organophosphonate coesters of this invention Is derived from carbonic acid with an organophosphonic acid and ortho substituted 1,3 and 1,4 dihydric phenols having one benzenoid ring such as 2,5 di t butyl hydroquinone, 2,3 6 trimethyl hydroquinone, 2 methylresorcinol, and 2,6 di t butylresorcinol,Also useful polyhydric phenol carbonate organophosphonate coesters are coesters of ortho substituted bisphenols having two ortho substituted phenollc groups linked directly or through a two valent hydrocarbon group such as 2,2 methylene bis methyl 6 t butyl phenol , 2,2 methylene bis 4 ethyl 6 t butyl phenol , 2,2 n butylidene bis 4,6 dimethylphenol , bis l ,l 2 hydroxy 3 ,5 di methylene trimethylhexane, 2,2 cyclohexylidene bis 4 ethyl 6 t butyl phenol , 4,4 bis 2,6 di t butylphenol , 4,4 methylene bis 2,6 di t butylphenol , 4,4 Isopropylidene bis 2 phenyl ethylphenol , 4,4 n butylidene bis 3 methyl 6 t butylphenol , 4,4 cyclohexylidene bis 2 t butylphenol , 4,4 cyclohexylidene bis 2 cyclohexylphenol , and 4,4 benzylidene bis 2 t butyl 5 methyl phenol . Another preferred class of polyhydric phenol carbonate organo phosphonate coesters provided in accordance with this invention is the class of carbonate coesters of ortho substltuted bisphenols having two ortho substituted phenolic groups linked through oxygen or sulfur, such as 4,4 oxobis 3 methyl 6 isopropylphenol . 4,4 thiobis 2 methyl 6 t butyl phenol , 4,4 thiobis 3 methyl 6 t butylphenoll , 4 ,4 sulfobis 3 methyl 6 t butyl phenol bis 2 methyl 4 hydroxy 5 t butylbenzyl sulfide, bis 3,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxybenzyll sulfide, 2,2 thiobis 4 hydroxybenzyl sulfide. 2,2 thiobis 4 t butyl 6 methylphenol . 2,2 thiobis 4,6 di t butylphenol A particularly preferred class of polyhydric phenol carbonateorganophosphonate coesters is the class of carbonate coesters of ortho substituted trisphenols having three ortho substituted phenol groups, such as t,1,3 trls 2 methyl 4 hydroxy 5 t butylphenyl butane, 1,3,5 tris 3 ,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxybenyl 2,4,6 trimethylbenzene, 2,2 bis 3 t butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl 4 3 ,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl butane, and 2,2 bis 2 methyl 5 t butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl 4 3 ,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl butane. The most preferred class of polyhydric phenol carbonateorganophosphonate coesters of this invention can be represented by the formulaEMI17.1 in which R is an alkyl, cycloalkyl, aralkyl, aryl, or alkaryl group having up to about 25 carbon atoms as defined above, or the croup A OH m 1 X independently at each occurrence is a carbon EMI17.2 group or an organophosphonylEMI17.3 group provided that at least one X isEMI17.4 and at least one X isEMI17.5 A is a residue of a dihydric or trihydric phenol preferably carrying at least one ortho alkyl substituent of the kind defined above R is a hydrogen atom or the group X O R R is the organic group linked to phosphorus through carbon, i.e. alkyl, cycloalkyl, aralkyl, aryl, or alkaryl having up to about 25 carbon atoms as defined above or the groupEMI18.1 q is an alkyl group, R2 and R3 are each Independently hydrogen or alkyl groups a ts an integer from I to 8, m is zero or one, and n is an integer from 1 to 20. When occurring more than once In this formula, R, Rl, R , R1, R2, R3 and Acan be the same or different at each occurrence. When A is derived from a dihydric phenol, m is zero and when A is derived from a trihydric phenol m is one. The polyhydric phenol organophosphonate carbonate coesters of this invention can be prepared by the reaction of a carbonylating agent such as phosgene, a chloroformate ester, a dialkyl carbonate or a diaryl carbonate with an organophosphonic acid compound and a substituted dihydric or trihydric phenol in one or several reaction stages. Acid acceptors such as ammonia pyridine, organic amines, and inorganic alkalies can be used with phosgene and chloroformate esters, and acidic or alkaline transester ification catalysts can facilitate the reaction of alkyl and aryl carbonate esters. The molecular weight of the coester is regulated by the proportions of organophosphonlc acid compound and carbonylating agent to dihydric or trihydric phenol.The more closely the proportions of the combined organophosphonlc acid and carbonylattng agent to dihydric or trihydric phenol approach one to one compound equivalent of each reactant the highter the molecular weight of the resulting product. Coaversely, either reactant can be , used in large excess to prepare products having nearly the lowest molecular weight possibis. that is a coester having a single carbonate ester group, a single organophosphonic acid ester group. and the minimum number of a polyhydric phenol groups to link these together.Thus the product of the reaction between two moles of a dihydric phenol and one mole of carbonylating agent is a relatively low molecular weight mixture of carbonate esters In which the bis hydroxyaryl carbonate of the dihydric phenol predominates, and the product of the reaction between two moles of a carbonate ester carbonylating agent e.g. diphenyl carbonate and one mole of dihydric phenol is a relatively low molecular weight mixture of carbonate esters In which the dihydric phenol bis phenyl carbonate ester predominates.Each of these products can then be used to prepare a coester of this Invention by reaction with an appropriate organo phosphonic acid compound Thus the above bis hvdroxyaryi carbonate ester of the polyhydric phenol can be caused to condense with the acid chloride or phenyl ester of an organo phosphonic acrid, with elimination of hydrogen chloride or phenol as side product respectively, to give a carbonate organophosphonate coester with a molecular weight depending on the relative proportions of reactants.Similarly, r polyhydric phenol phenyl carbonate ester can be transesterified with a hydroxyaryl ester of an organophosphonic acid to displace phenol and give a carbonate organophosphonate coester of the polyhydric phenol present in each of the starting mfaterials, which means that the coester can be made up of different polyhydric phenols if each of the starting materials contains a different polyhydric phenol.Both techniques Just described are essentially two stage reaction techniques that yield coesters of a relatively ordered structure in which polyhydric phenol groups are alternatingly linked through carbonate ester groups and through organophosphonate ester groups. toasters prepared at elevated temperature such as by the phenol ester transesteriflcation technique, have the ordered alternating structure modified to a Minor extent as a result of ester ester interchange randomization. The reactlons can be Illus trated by equations in which for convenience the symbols HO Ar OM are used for the polyhydric phenols that can be used according to this invention, and R PO DPh 2 and R POCl2 represent phenyl esters and acid chlorides of organophosphonlc acids that can be used. A. Condensation of hydroxyaryl carbonate with organophosphonic acid compound EMI20.1 B. Condensation of phenyl carbonate of polyhydric phenol with an organophosphonic acid ester of a different polyhydric phenol EMI20.2 HOAr O PR O OAr O CO OArO CO OAr O PR O OAr OH Both the phenyl estcr reaction and the acid chloride reaction can be facilitated by the use of catalysts.The phenyl ester reactionIs sultably catalyzed by substances of sufficient alkalinity to convert phenol at least In part to the phenoxide ion, such as alkali and alkaline earth metals and their oxides, hydroxides, sulfides, cyanides, phenolates, hydrides alcoholates, and carboxylates as well as aliphatic and cycloaliphatic emlnes, preferably tertiary gamines to avoid the possible complication of amide formation. Suitable catalysts for the acid chloride reaction include tertiary amines, tertiary phosphines, and the hydrogen halide and alkyl halide addition salts thereof. Catalyst concentrations usefulty range from 0,01 to about 5 by weight of reaction mixture.Preferred catalysts for the acid chloride reaction have the ability to partition between water end an Imiscible hydrocarbon phase with a partition coefficient between 0.01 and 100. Both the phenyl ester reaction method of preparing the coester of this Invention and the acid chloride method can be carrled out over convenient range of reaction temperatures The phenol ester reaction Is conveniently carried out at elevated temperatures of the order of 80 to 210 C with removal of the side product phenol by distillation, suitably under diminished pressure. It is frequently helpful to begin the reaction by en atmospheric pressure cook, suitably with nitrogen or other inert gas protection over the reaction mass to preserve its light color, and apply vacuum gradually after a quantity of side product has accumulated for removal. The acid chloride reaction Is conveniently carried out ot ambient temperatures or as cold as 15 C. Elevated temperatures In the 40 to 90 C range can also be used. In coesters prepared with an excess of equivalents of the dihydric or trihydrlc phenol reactant over the equivalents of cnrbonylating agent and organophosphonic acid compound combined, the coester Is predominantly terminated by hydroxyaryl groups, while In coesters prepared with an excess of the combined equivalents of organophosphonic acid compound and carbonylating agent over the phenol, ester termination predominates.The hydroxyaryl terminated costers having an average molecular weight ranging from 700 to about 10000 and especially with a molecular weight ranging from 1200 to about 7000 are preferred Synthetic resins that can be stabilized with compositions comprising r polyhydric phenol organophosphonate carbonate coester according to this invention include alphaolefin polymers such as polyethylene, polypropylene, polybutene, poly 3 methylbutene, or copolymers thereof such as ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer, ethyienepropvlene copolymer, polystyrene, polyvinylacetate, acrylic ester resins, copolymers from styrene and another monomer for example, maleic anhydiide, butadiene, acrylonitrile and so on , acrylonitrile butadiene styrene co polymer,acryllc acid ester butadiene styrene copolymer, methacrylic acid ester butadiene styrene copolymer, methycrylate ester resin such as polymethylmethacrylate, polyvinylalcohol, ethylene and butylene terephthalate polyesters, polyamide, polycarbonate, polyacetal, polyurethane, ccilulosic resin, or phenolic resin, urea resin, melamine resin, epoxy resin, unsaturated polyester, silicone resin, halogen containing resins such as polyvinyl chloride polyvinylidene chloride, polyvinylidene fluoride and copolymers thereof, and further rubbers such as isoprone rubber, chloroprene rubber, and blends of the above resins.Stabilizer compositions comprising a polyhydric phanol organophosphonate carbonate coester according to this Invention can be formulated and marketed In liquid, solid and paste forms. An Inert solvent can be used to facilitate handling. The polyhydricphcnoi coester and known polymer stabilizers can also be solubilized in one another by heating, such as at 70 160 C for up to 4 hours, and thcn allowing the resulting melt to cool and harden sufficiently to be flaked and ground. Known polymer stabilizers can be used In synthetic resin compos ltions together with the coester stabilizers of this invention and can be admixed with the latter. Such stabilizers include thiodipropionic acid sters, Folyvalent metal salts of carboxylic acids, organic phosphites, I,2 epoxides, polyhydric alcohols, polyhydric alcohol 3 alkylthiopropionic acid esters, ultraviolet stabilizers and heavy metal deactivators. Representative thiodi proplonic acid esters include di n dodecyl thiodipropionate, di hexadecyl thiodipropionate, distearyl thiodipropionate, n octyl eicosanyl thiodipropionate and n octadçcyl cyclohexane 1,4 dimethanol thiodipropiomate polyester. A comprehensive disclosure of useful thiodipropionate esters by N. Minagawa et al in U.S. Patent 3,869,423, column 17 line 55 to column 19 line 54 is here incorporated by reference. When thiodipropionate esters are used the concentration based on 100 parts of polymer can range from 0.05 to about 0.75 parts by weight.Representative polyvalent metal salts include zinc, calcium, magnesium, barium, strontium and nickel salts of onocarboxylic acids having 6 to 24 carbon atoms, for example zinc berizoate, calcium palmitate, and nickel 2 ethylbutyrate. A coaprehensive disclosure of useful metal salts by M. ninagawa et al in U. S. Patent 3,869,423, column 19 line 56 column 20 line 35 is here incorporated by reference. When metal salts are used the concentration based on 100 parts by weight of polymer can range from 0.1 to about 3 parts by weight. Representative organic plosphites Include triisodcylphospbite, tris nonylphanyl phosphite , and 4,4 isopropylidene diphenol alkyl C12 Cl5 phosphite. A comprehensive disclosure of useful organic phosphites by H. Hinagawa in U. S. Patent 3,849,370 column 13 line 63 to column 16 line 48 is here incorporated by reference. Typical use concentrations of organic phosphites are in the range from 0.02 part to about 2 parts by weight per 100 parts of polymer being stabilized. Representative 1,2 epoxides that can be used in stabilizer con positions according to this invention include epoxysoybean oil, epoxylins ed oil, and 2 ethylhexyl epoxystearate. A comprehensive disclosure of 1,2 epoxides by H. Hinagawa et al In U. S. Patent 3,869,423 column 26 line 13 to line 39 is here incorporated by reference. Typical use concentrations of 1,2 epoxides range from 0.3 to about 6 parts by weight per 100 parts of synthetic resin composition. Aliphatic polyhydroxy compounds can be included with stabilizer compositions of this invention in amounts corresponding to 0,1 to about 1 part per 100 parts of polymer being stabilized. Typical aliphatic polyhydroxy compounds are glycerol, polyglycerol, mono dl and tri pentaerythritol, nannitol, sorbitol, and partial esters of these with saturated and unsaturated fatty acids having 6 to 22 carbon atoms. 3 Alkylthio propionates of polyhydric alcohols can be included in stabilizer compositions of this invention in amounts corres ponding to 0.02 to about 1 part per 100 parts of synthetic resin being stabilized. The propionate esters have 4 to about 34 carbon atoms in the allylthiopropionate group, 2 to about IS carbon atoms in the polyhydric alcohol group and 2 to about 8 ester group in the molecule. Representative propionate esters are 2,2 dimethylpropanediol bis 3 n dodecylthio 2 methylpropion ate , pentaerythritol tetrakis 3 n octylthioproplonate and tris 3 n octadecylthiopropionyloxyethyl isocyanurate. For a further listing of useful 3 alkylthiopropionates the disclosure of A. OnishiU.S. Patent 3,629,194 can be consulted.Ultraviolet stabilizers can be included in stabilizer compositions of this Invention in amounts corresponding to 0.05 to about 1 part per 100 parts of synthetic resin being protected. Typical U V absorbing ultraviolet stabilizers are 2 hydroxybenzophenones such as 2 hydroxy 4 n octyloxybenzophenone and 2,4 dihydroxybenzophenone, and 2 2 hydroxyphenyl benzotriazoles such as 2 hydroxy 5 methyl phenyl benzotriazole and 2 2 hydroxy 5 t butylphenyl 5,6 di chlorobenzotriazole. For a further listing of many useful ultraviolet absorbers the disclosure of U.S. Patent 3,395,112 of July 30, 1968, particularly column 14 line 40 to column 19 line 33, can be consul ted. Ultraviolet stabilizers that have little or no significant ultraviolet absorption and owe their effectiveness to a mode of action other than ultraviolet absorption include nickel or cobalt salts and complexes such as butylamine nickel thiobis p octyl phenyl, nickel bis N,n dibutyldithiocarbamate , cobalt bis dicyclohexylphopsphinodithioate , and the nickel alkyl phosphites of U.S. Patent 3,395,112 aryl aromatic carboxylate esters such as bis nonylphenyl isophthalate, resorcinol bis t butyl benzoate , and 2,4 di t butylphenyl 3,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxy benzoate and, particularly preferred, derivatives of 2,2,6,6 tetralkylpiperidines including those disclosed by K. Murayama in U. S. Patents 3,840,494 and 3,899,464 and by B. Holt in U. S. Patent 4,021,432.The preferred tetralkylpiperidines that can be used together with the polyhydric phenol organophos phonate carbonate coesters according to this invention are Specific examples of such 2,2,6,6 tetramehylpiperidinesInclude bis 2,2,6,6 tetramehylpiperidin 4 yl adipate, 2,2,6,6 tetramehylpiperidin 4 yl 9,10 epoxystearate 1 oxyl radical and tri s 2 ,2 ,6 ,6 tetramehylpiperidine 4 4 1 3 dioxylsobutane 2 methyl but 3 ene 1,2,3 tricarboxylate.Stabiliser compositions according to this inventIon that protect synthetic resin compositions used In contact with materials containing heavy metals and their compounds, as in insulating materials for copper based electrical conductors or la compositions pigmented with heavy metal containing pigments such as rouge, talc, and iron bearing asbestos, can contain heavy metal deactivators that counteract the prodegradant effect of the heavy metal on synthetic resin compositions that would be satisfactorily stabilized in the absence of heavy metal.Heavy metal deactivators that can he used in stabilizer compositions according to this invention include rwelamine, dicyandiamide, oxanilide, N, N disalicyloylhydrazioe, 3 salisyloylyamido 1,2,4 triazole, as well as the heavy metal deactivators disclosed by n Hinagawa in U.S.Patents 3,549,572 column 5 line 19 to column 10 line 23 , 3,629,181 column 5 line 15 to column 9 line 54 , 3,673,152 columm 4 llne 47 to column 5 line 62 , and 3,849,370 column 5 line 5 to column 13 line 45 . These disclosures are here incorporated by reference Illustrative of stabilizer compositions comprising coesters of polyhydric phenols with carbonic acid and an organo phosphonic acid according to this invention together with known polymer stabilizers are the following carboxylic acid esters of an alcohol linked to the 4 positton of a 2,2,6,6 tetramehylpiperidine having 15 to 75 carbon atoms and a piperldine nitrogen content ranging from 2 to 8 per cent by weight, and can be represented by the formula EMI27.1 In which n is a whole number fran I to 4, Y Isselected from the group consisting of hydrogen and oxyl radIcal, X is a three valent linking member selected from the group consisting ofEMI27.2 wherein R is a lower alkyl group, and R is an organic group having a valence of n that can be open chain, carboxycllc, and heterocyclic.Lower alkyl R groups include for example methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl,n butyl, and Isobutyl. R groups can be for example alkyl such as ethyl, t butyl, 2 heptyl, 1 ondecyl, and 1 tricosanyl aryl such as phenyl, t butylphenyl, and 1 naphtyl alkyl such as allyl, methallyl, vinyl, propenyl, and 8 heptadecenyl aralkyl such as benzyl and hydrocinnamyl alkylene such as ethylene, 1,4 buthylene, and decamethylene alkenylene such as vinylene and 2 butene l, 4 diiyl cycloalkylene and cycloalkenylene such as methyl cyclopentylene, cyclohexenylene, and bicycioheptenylene end heterocyclic groups such as furyl, thienyl, and pyrrolidonyl. 1STABlLIZER PARTS 8Y COMPOSITION INGREDIENTS WEIGHT 2 1 molar ratio carbonate phenyl benzenephosphonate of 4,4 butylidenebi5 3 methyl 6 t butylphenol , approx. mol. wt. 1600 10 Zinc Stearate 20 Magnesium benzoate 15 Mannitol 25 11 2 3 carbonate methyl methane phosphonate of bis 3 methyl 4 hydroxy 5 t butylbenzyl sulfide, approx. mol.wt. 1900 12 Barium nonyiphenolate 30 Zinc 2 ethylhexoate 18 Diphenyl isodecyl phosphite 40 lil 2 5 carbonate p cresyl ethane phosphonate of 3,5 dimethyl hydroquinone, approx. mol. wt. 2900 25 2 ethylhexyl epoxystearate 45 tris nonylphenyl phosphite 30IV 4 3 carbonate o t buthylphenylbenzyl phosphonate of 4,4 isopropyl idenediphenol, approx. mol. wt. 2400 10 Strontium laurate 80 Zinc laurate 40 Dipentaerythritol 15V 1 1 carbonate p t buty l cyclohexane phosphonate of methylenebis 4,6 di t butylphenol approx. mol. wt. 1800 25 Distearyl thi odipropionate 45 Trihexadecyl phosphite 10 STABILIZER PARTS BYCOMPOSITION INGREDIENTS WEIGHT Vl 2 1 carbonate 2 ethylhexyl 2 ethyl hexane phosphonate of t butylhydroquin one, approx. mol. wt. 2600 60 Di cyandiami de 40 VI I 3 1 carbonate phenylbenzenephos phonate thiobis 2 t butyl 5 methyl phenol , approx. mol. wt.330O 15 Pentaerythritol bis n octadecyl phosphate 6The preparation of the stabilized resin composition is easily accomplished by conventional procedures.A heated two roll mill, for example, is a convenient compounding tool for blending stabilizer compositions of the invention with polyolefins, vinyl chloride polymers, ABS polymers, ethylenevinyl acetate copolymers and others.The exatrtples that follow illustrate the invention without limiting its scope. Synthetic Examples 1 and 2 describe the preparation of certain polyhydric phenol organophosphonic acid and carbonic ester coesters of this invention shown inTable 1 by techniques disclosed above. Examples 1 1 through 7 7 illustrate the use of coester stabilizers of this invention shown in Table 1 and stabilizer compositions comprising coesters of this Invention shown in Table 1 in the stabilization of olefin polymers, a vinyl chloride polymer, an ABS polymer, and a butylene terephthalate polyester resin.SYNTHETIC EXAMPLE 1 Synthesis of Table 1 No. 1 compound, phenyl 3,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxybenzyl phosphonate carbonate of 4,4 n butyl idene bis 2 t buty 5 methylphenol . 4,4 n butylidenebls 2 t butyl 5 methyl phenol 114.6g 0.3 mole , diphenyl carbonate 32.1 g 0.15 mole and potassium carbonate 0.159 were hcated to 14J 145 C under nitrogen atmosphere and then reacted for 2.5 hrs. After the reaction.produced phenol was distilled out under reduced pressure.Diphenyl 3,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxy benzyl gnate 135.6g and sodium hydride 0.5g where added and reacted at 170 175 C for 1 hour under nitrogen atmosphere and a further 4 hours at l70 1850C under reduced pressure while distilling Out phenol. A glassy solid of melting point 12û 125 C was obtained as residue.SYNTHETIC EXAMPLE 2Synthesis of Table 1 No 3 compound phenyl 3,5 di t butyi 4 hydroxybenzyl phosphonate carbonate of 1,1,3 tris 2 methyl 4 hydroxy 5 butylphenyl butane.1,1,3 Tris 2 methyl 4 hydroxy 5 t butylphenyl butane long 0.2 mole , diphenyl carbonate 21.49 0.1 mole , diphenyl 3,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxy benzyl phosphonate 181g 0.4 mole and sodium hydryde 0.1g where reacted at 170 175 C for 1.5 hr.under nitrogen atmosphere, and additional 4 hours, at 170 185 C while distilling out produced phenol. A glassy solid of melting point 126 131 0C was obtained.These and other polyhydric phenol carbonate organophosphonate coesters of this invention are shown by name, formula, and average molecular weight In Table 1. Where no other molar ratio is indlcated, the molar ratio of polyhydric phenol groups to carbonate ester groups is 2 1. TABLE IEMI31.1 Bis O phenyl P 3,5 di t butyl 4 hidroxyphenylmethane phosphonate of 4,4 butylidenebis 2 t butyl 5 methylphenol carbonate. M.F. 120 125 C, average molecular weight 1500EMI31.2 Bis O n octadecyl P 3,5 di t butyl 4 hidroxyphenylmethane phosphonate of 4,4 isopropylidenediphenol carbonate, overage molecular weight 1600EMI31.3 Bis O Phenyl P 3,5 di t butyl 4 hidroxyphenylmethane phos phonate of 1,1,3 t ris 2 metyl 4 hydroxi 5 t butylphenyl butane carbonate, Helting Point 126 131 0C, average molecular weight 2600EMI32.1 iils 0 ethyl P 2 3 dimethyl 4 hydroxy 5 t butyl phenyinethane phosphonate of 4,4 thiobis 2 t butyl 5 methylphenol carbonate average molecular weight 1300EMI32.2 Bis O phenyl P 2,6 dimethyl 3 hydroxy 4 t butylphenylmethane phosphonate of 4,4 cyclohexylidenediphenol carbonate.average molecular weight 1200EMI32.3 Bis O benzylP phenylmethanephosphonate of 4,4 n butylidiene bi s 2 t butyl 5 methyl phenol carbonate average molecular weight 1300 EMI33.1 Bls û nonytphenyl P dodecanephosphonate of 4,4 isopropylidene bis 2 t buthylpheol carbonate. average molecular weight 1800EMI33.2 Bls 0 phenyl P benzenephosphonate of 1 3,5 di t butyl 4 hyd roxyphenyl 1 3 ,3 b is 3 t butyl 4 hyd roxytenyl butane carbonate average molecular weight 16 EMI33.3 O Phenyl P 3 ,5 d 1 t butyl 4 hyd roxyphenyl ethane mono phosphonate of 4,4 n buthylidene bis 2 t butyl 5 methylphenol carbonate average molecular weight 1200 EMI34.1 O Penyl P 3,5 di t butyl 4 hidroxyphenylmethane monophosphonate of 4,4 isopropylidene bis 2 t butylphenol carbonate average molecular weight 1100EMI34.2 Bis 4,4 n butylidiene bis 2 t butyl 5 methylphenol carbonate P 3,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxyphenylmethanephosphonate, average molecular weight 1800EMI34.3 Bis 4 phenoxycarbonyloxy 2 methyl 5 t butylphenylthio 2 methyl 5 t butylphenyl P 1 2,6 dimethyl 3 hydroxy 4 t butylphenyl ethanephosphonate, average molecular weight 1200EMI35.1 Bis 4,4 cyclohexylidenebis 2 cychlohexylphenol carbonate P phenylmethanephosphonate, average molecular weight 1900EMI35.2 Bis 2,5 di t buutylhidroquinone carbonate P cyclohexane phosphonate, average molecular weight 1100EMI35.3 Bis 4,4 n butylidenebis 2 t butyl 5 methylphenol 5 4 molar ra carbonate P 3,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl methanephosphonate, average molecular weight 4300 EMI36.1 Bls 4,4 methylenebis 2 t butyl 5or.ethylphenola3 2 molar ratio carbonate P 2,3 dimethyl 4 hydroxy 5 t butylphenyl methane phosphonate. average molecular weight 240û EMI36.2 Bis 4,4 n butylidenebis 2 t butyl 5 methylphenol 11 10 molar ratio carbonate P benzenephosphonate, average molecular weight 9000EMI36.3 Bis 4,4 isopropylidenediphenol monoss O phenyl P dodecanephosphonate 4 3 molar ratio carbonate P dodecanephosphonate, average molecular weight 2700 EMI37.1 4,4 n Butylidenebis 2 t butyl 5 methylphenol 3 2 molar ratio carbonate bis O phenyl P 3,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl rethanephosphonate , average molecular weight 1900EMI37.2 4,4 Thiobis 2 t butyl 5 methylphenol 4 3 molar ratio carbonate O phenyl P 3,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl methanephosphonate, average molecular weight 1900EMI37.3 4,4 Sulfonyldiphenol 3 2 molar ratio carbonate bis O benzyl P phenylmethanephosphonate average molecular weight 1300 EMI38.1 Bis 2 methyl 4 hydroxy 5 t butylbenzyl sulfide 5 4 molar ratio carbonate O p tolyl P p toluenephosphonate, average molecular weight 23QJ EMI38.2 4,4 n Butylidenebis 2 methyl 5 t butylphenyl 0,0 bis 4 phenoxycarbonyloxy 2 methyl 5 t buthyl alphapropybenzyl 2 t butyl 5 methylphenyl P,P bis 3,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxy phenyi methanephosphonate, average molecular weight 1900EMI38.3 Bis 4,4 methylenebispheol 3 2 molar ratio P octadecane phosphonate carbonate. average molecular weight 2300EMI39.1 4,4 Thiobis 2 butyl 5 methyl phenol carbonate P 3,5 di tbutyl 4 hydroxyphenyl methanephosphonate, 5 2 2 molar ratio, average molecular weight 2400EXAMPLES 1 1 to l Substantlally unstabilized polypropylene resin Profax 6501, containing a trace of BHT antioxidant to protect the polymer during shipment and a storage only 100 parts by weight and Table 1 compound or other stabilizer sample being tested 0.3 part by weight were mi for ten minutes by mixing and grinding at room temperature and milled and molded to make a sheet of l.Omm in thickness at 1800C and 200 kg cm2 for 5 minutes.From this sheet were cut ten sample pieces of lOX2Omm of each formulation, and exposed on aluminum foil in a Geer air circulating oven at 1600C for heat stability examination. The time to the beginning of degradation was taken as the time when more then five sample pieces in ten of each formulation were discolored and brittle. The stabilizer samples tcstcd and the results obtalned are. shownIn Table 2. TABLE 2 DETERIORATIONNO. BEGINNINGCONTROL STABILIZER TIME 1 1 BHT 20 hours 1 2 4,4 n butylidenebis 3 rethyl 6 t butyi phenol 85 hours 1 3 distearyl 3,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxybenzyl phos phonate 85 hoursExample polyhydric phenol organophosphonate carbonate from Table 1 l t No. 1 480 hours 1 2 No.4 455 1 3 Ho. 6 420 1 4 No. 10 450 1 5 No. 13 445 1 6 No. 19 475 1 7 No. 23 455 Each of the polypropylene samples of Examples 1 1 through 1 7 stabilized according to this Invention with a coester of carbonic acid and an organophosphonic acid with a polyhydric phenol. had more than double the heat stability of a control composition containing a conventional phenolic phosphonate stabilizer. EXAMPLES 2 1 to 2 7 Using the same compounding method dcscrlbed above, lmm thick test speciments of 10x20mm were prepared according to the following formulation. Meat stability was measured In aGeer oven at 1600C and light stability by Irradiating with a mercury vapor lamp until signs of failure by embrittlement were noted. Results are shown in Table 3. FORMULATION Polypropylene 100 parts Profax 6501 Ca stearate 0.2 DLTDP 0.3 bis 2,2,6,6 tetramethyl 4 piperidinyl sebacate 0.3 Stabilizer being tested 0.1 TABLE 3 LIGHT HEATNO. STABILIZER STABILITY STABILITY Control hrs. hrs. 2 1 None 175 20 2 2 Stearyi beta 3,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxy phenyl proplonate 205 280 2 3 Diethvi 3,5 di t butyi 4 hydroxybenzyl phosphonate 250 . 275 Example Polyhydric phenol orsanophosphonate carbonate coester 2 1 No. 3 530 805 2 2 No. 9 485 750 2 3 No. 11 515 795 t 4 No 15 520 780 Example Polyhydric phenol organophosphonate carbonate coester 2 5 No. 17 470 720 2 6 No. 20 495 765 2 7 flo. 25 505 760 The results show that the conventional phenolic and phenolic phosphonate stabilizers controls 2 2 and 2 3 contrlbute only a little to light stability, as shown by the modest increase over Control 2 1.In contrast, the coesters of this Invention relnforce the effectiveness of the piperidine stabilizer present to provide approximately twice the tire to failure. in the heat stability test, the polymer containing coester stabilizers of this Invention lasts more than twice as long as the nearest conventionally stabilized polymer EXAMPLES 3 1 to 3 7 Polyethylene resin Hi Zes 5100 E, Hltsui Petrochemical Industries, Ltd Japan 100 parts by weight, disteeryl thiodipropionate 0.3 part, BHT 0.1 part, and a polyhydric phenol organophosphonic acid carbonate coester 0.1 part by weight were milled on a two roll mill for 5 minutes at 150 C and then molded into a sheet of 1.2nm thickness by compression molding at 150 C and 180 kg cmê for 5 minutes. The sheet was cut into sample pieces of 10x20 mm and tested for heat stability in the Geer oven at 1500C in air on aluminum foll and for light stability in the Wheatheremeter. The tire to the beginning of degradation was taken as the time when more than five sample pieces in ten of each formulatton were dIscolored or embrittled. The stabilizer ingredients used and the results obtained are shown in Table 4. TABLE 4 LIGHT HEATNO. STABILIZER STABILITY STABILITY Control Hours Hours 3 1 Hone 135 160 3 2 2 hydroxy 4 methoxy benzophenone 520 165EXAMPLE POLYHYDRIC PHENOL ORGANOPHOSPHONATE CARBONATE COESTER 3 1 No. I 945 525 3 2 No. 5 .860 465 3 3 No. 8 875 480 3 4 No. 12 905 485 3 5 No. 16 915 500 3 6 ... No. 21 820 440 .3 7 No. 24 825 455Each of the polyethylene Samples of Examples 3 1 through 3 7 stabilized according to thts invention with a coester of carbonic acid and an organophosphonic acid with a polyhydric phenol had a 58 to 822 greater light stability than Control 3 2 stabilized Instead with o known benzophenone ultraviolet stabilizer. EXAMPLES 4 1 to 4 8 ABS resin Blendex 111 100 parts by weight, Zinc stearate 0.5 part by weight, titanium dioxide 5.0 parts by weight. and a polyhyiric phenol organophosphonlc acld carbonate coester 0.3 part by weight were mixed by grinding at room temperature for 10 minutes. The compound was prepared by extruding the ground mixture using a 30 mm extruder at 30 rpm and 2400C. A sheet of 0.5 mm thickness was prepared by compression molding each extruded compound at 200 kg cm2 and 180 C for 5 minutes.The whiteness index of this sheet after heating at 135 C for 20 hours In a Geer oven, was measured using Hunter color difference meter. The tensile strength retention was measured after irradiating for 800 hours in the Weatherometer.The results of these tests are shown in Table 5. TABLE 5 TENSILE STRENGTHNo. STABILIZER WHITENESS RETENSION Control 4 1 None 0.12 4 2 l,l,3 tris 2 methyl 4 hydroxy 5 t butylphenyl butane 0.18 33 EXAMP E Polyhydric Phenol Organophosphonate Carbonate Coester 4 1 No. 2 0.31 83 4 2 No. 3 0.38 88 4 3 No. 7 0.29 80 4 4 No. 11 0.37 87 4 5 No. 14 0.32 84 4 6 No. 18 0.28 78 4 7 No. 22 0.32 83 4 8 No. 25 O. 35 90Each of the ABS polymer samples of Examples 4 1 through 4 8 stabilized according to this invention with a coester of carbonic acid and an organophosphonic acid with a polyhydric phenol had more than double the retained tensile strength of a control sample stabilized with the same zinc stearate as in Examples 4 1 through 4 8 along with a conventional polyhydric phenol stabilizer. EXAMPLES 5 1 to 5 8A clear sheet was prepared by kneading polyvinylchlorlde resin Geon tO3EP 100 parts, dioctylphthalate 42 parts, epoxidized soybean oil 3 parts, zinc stearate 0.3 parts, barium stearate 0.5 part, stearic acid 0.3 part, and a polyhydric phenol organophosphooic acld carbonate conster 0.3 part on a two roll mill at 175 C for 5 minutes and then compression molding at 175 C. Than, a heat stability test was carried out In a Geer oven at 190 C in an air atmosphere and light stability was measured In the Weather o meter.The time to degradation was determined by the discoloratIon observed. The polyhydric phenol coester used and the results obtained are shown in Table 6. TABLE 6 BEGINNING TIME OF DETERIORATION LIGHT NO. SAMPLE YELLOWED BLACKEWED STABILITYControl Min. Min. Hrs. 5 1 None 30 45 105 5 2 Dlphenyl Iso decal phosphite 45 60 230 EXAMPLE Polyhydric phenol carbonate organophosphate coester 5 1 No. 1 75 105 510 5 2 No. 4 60 90 480 5 3 No. 9 60 90 465 5 4 No. 12 60 90 55 No. 15 75 105 505 5 6 No. 16 60 75 450 5 7 No. 19 75 105 510 5 B Ho. 22 60 75 455 Each of the polyvinyl chloride samples of Examples 5 1 through 5 8 stabilized according to this invent ion with e coester of of carbonic acid and an organophosphonic acid with a poly . hydric phenol, along with epoxidized soybean oll, zinc stearate, and barium stearate, had at least 332 greater heat stability than a control sample containing a conventlonal organic phosphite along with the same expoxidized soybean oil, zinc stearate, and barium stearate, and also approximately double the light stability. EXAnPLES 6 1 to 6 6 Test pieces were prepared from polybutylene terephtalate 100 parts and sample Table 7 o. Z. part by injection molding The tensile strength retention of the test pieces after Irradiating for 500 hours in a Weather O Heter was measured, and the tensile strength retention of the test pieces after heating at 150 C for 240 hours was measured. The results are shown in Table 7. TABLE 7 TENSILE STRENGTH RETENTION No. SAMPLE AFTER IRRADITING AFTER HEATING Control 6 1 None 53 57 EXAMPLE Polyhydric phenol organophosphonate carbonate coester 6 1 No. 3 82 81 6 2 No. 10 77 75 6 3 o. 13 75 76 6 4 No. 17 78 75 6 5 No. 20 77 74 6 6 No. 25 80 79 The Improvement in rctention of tensile strength after both light exposure and heat aging resulting from the use of the coesters of this invention is evident from the above test data.EXAMPLES 7 1 to 7 7In order to examine the effects of the compounds according to this invention In ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer, samples were prepared according to the following formulation and tested for heat stability In a Geer oven at 1750C and initial color was measured for yellowness using Hunter color difference meter, greater numbers indicating more severe discoloration. Also the tensile strength retention after irradiating 50 hours in a Weather O Meter was measured. The results are shown in Table 8. FORT.UtATION Ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer 100 parts Montan wax lubricant 0.3 Sample compound Table 8 0.1 TABLE 8 TENSILE STRENGTH HEAT INITIALNo SAMPLE RETENTION STABILITY COLORControl t Min. 7 1 None 50 60 0.32EXAMPLE polyhydric phenol organophosphonate carbonate coester 7 1 No. 1 82 120 0.11 7 2 No 3 83 120 0.12 7 3 No. 9 77 105 0.14 7 4 No. 11 80 120 0.12 7 5 No. 15 82 120 0.10 7 6 No. 19 80 105 0.13 7 7 No. 25 81 120 0.11 Each of the ethylene vinylacetate copolymer samplcs of Example 7 1 through 7 7 stabilized according to this Invention with a coester of carbonic acid and an organophosphonic acid with a polyhydric phenol had much lighter Initial color and at least 75 greater heat stability than an unstabilized control sample, as well as 54 at least greater retention of tensile strength.