# Secondary phenylethanol amines, processes for their preparation and their pharmaceutical application.

## Abstract
Compounds of formula I

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A compound of formula I EMI57.1 and salts and in vivo hydrolysable acyl derivatives thereof, wherein R1 is hydrogen or methyl R2 is hydrogen or methyl R3 is hydrogen, fluorine, chlorine, bromine, trifluoromethyl or C1 6 straight or branched chain alkyl R4 is nitro,EMI57.2 or optionally substitutedEMI57.3 R is hydrogen or C16 straight or branched chain alkyl EMI57.4 4. A compound as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein one of R1 and R3 is methyl and the other is hydrogen. 5. A compound as claimed in anv one of claims 1 to 4 wherein R4 is nitro orEMI59.1 6. A compound as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein R4 is a cyclic amino group. 7. A process for producing a compound of formula I , as defined in claim 1, which process comprises either a reducing a compound of formula II EMI59.2 wherein R1 R3 R4 and n are as defined in relation to 1 1 formula I R9 is a group Rê as defined in relation to formula I or together with R10 forms a bond R10 is hydrogen or together with R9 or R11 forms a bond R6 is hydrogen or c1 6 straight or branched chain alkyl R7 is C16 straight or branched chain alkyl R8 is hydrogen or C1 6 straight or branched chain alkyl m is an integer from 1 to 6 p is an integer from 2 to 5 q is an integer from 0 to 2 provided that p q is from 3 to 5 EMI60.1 is is hydrogen, C1 6 straight or branched alkyl or aralkyl consisting of a C6 or C10 aryl group and a C16 straight or branched chain alkylene group any substituent on theEMI60.2 group, when present, being a carboxyl group or a salt, ester or amide thereof. 2. A compound as claimed in claim 1 wherein R3 is hydrogen or trifluoromethyl. 3. A compound as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein R3 is in the meta position. 8. A compound of formula I as defined in any one of claims 1 to 6 for use in the treatment of the human or animal body. 9. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of formula I as defined in any one of claims 1 to 6 in association with a veterinarly acceptable carrier there for. 10. A process for producing a pharmaceutical composition, as defined in claim 9, which process comprises bringing into association the compound of formula I and the carrier. Rll is hydrogen or together with R12 forms an oxo group or together with R10 forms a bond R1312 is hydrogen or together with forms an oxo group R13 is hydroxyl or together with R14 forms an oxo group 14 13 R is hydrogen or together with R forms an oxo group, provided that there is no more than one oxo group and no more than one bond represented by any of R9 to R14, and optionally thereafter forming a salt of the compound of formula I so formed and or converting the compound of formula I so formed into a further compound of formula I . or b reacting a compound of formula III EMI62.1 with a compound of formula IV EMI62.2 wherein R1 R2, R3, R5, X and n are as defined in relation to formula I , and optionally thereafter forming a salt of the compound of formula I so formed.

## Description
R6 is hydrogen, methyl, ethyl or propyl R7 is hydrogen, methyl, ethyl or propyl X is oxygen or a bond and Y is C16 alkylene or a bond, which possess anti obesity and or hypoglycaemic activity. It has now been discovered that a class of novel anilinoethanolamine derivatives have anti obesity and or hypoglycaemic and or anti inflammatory and or platelet aggregation inhibition activity. This activity is coupled with low cardiac stimulant activity for particular members of the class. Accordingly, the present invention provides a compound of formula I EMI1.1 and salts and in vivo hydrolysable acyl derivatives thereof See Attached Corrigenda SECONDARY AMINES The present invention relates to derivatives of ethanol amine which have anti obesity and or hypoglycaemic and or anti inflammatory and or platelet aggregation inhibition activity, to processes for their production and to their use in medicine. European Patent Application No. 79301197.4 Beechams discloses compounds of formulaEMI2.1 wherein R1is hydrogen, fluorine, chlorine, hydroxyl, hydroxymethyl, methyl, methoxy, amino, formamido, acetamido, methylsulphonamido, nitro, benzyloxy, methylsulphonylmethyl, ureido, trifluoromethyl or p methoxybenzylamino R2 is hydrogen, fluorine, chlorine or hydroxyl R3 is hydrogen, fluorine, chlorine or hydroxyl R4 is a carboxylic acid group or a salt, ester or amide thereof R5 is hydrogen, fluorine, chlorine, methyl, methoxy, hydroxyl, or a carboxylic acid group or a salt, ester or amide thereof any substituent on theEMI3.1 group, when present, being a carboxyl group or a salt, ester or amide thereof. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts of compounds of formula I include acid addition salts formed with a pharmaceutically acceptable acid such as hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, orthophosphoric acid, sulphuric acid, methane sulphonic acid, toluenesulphonic acid, acetic acid, propionic acid, lactic acid, citric acid, fumaric acid, maleic acid, succinic acid r salicylic acid or acetylsalicyclic acid and, when R4 includes a carboxyl group, salts of that group such as alkali meta l salts, including sodium and potassium salts, alkaline earth metal salts, including calcium and magnesium salts, and ammonium salts. wherein R1 is hydrogen or methyl R2 is hydrogen or methyl R3 is hydrogen, fluorine, chlorine, bromine, trifluoromethyl or C16 straight or branched chain alkyl EMI4.1 R5 is hydrogen or C16 straight or branched chain alkyl EMI4.2 R6 is hydrogen or C1 6 straight or branched chain alkyl R7 is C1 6 straight or branched chain alkyl R8 is hydrogen or C1 6 straight or branched chain alkyl m is an integer from 1 to 6 p is an integer from 2 to 5 q is an integer from 0 to 2 provided that p q is from 3 to 5 EMI4.3 R9 is hydrogen, C1 6 straight or branched alkyl or aralkyl consisting of a C6 or C10 aryl group and a C1 6 straight or branched chain alkylene group Preferably, the carbon atom bearing the hydroxyl and substituted phenyl groups has the R configuration. The most potent compounds of formula I are those wherein R1 and R2 are different and both asymmetric carbon atoms are in the R configuration. The absolute configuration of any compound of formula I may be determined by conventional X ray crystallographic techniques. It is believed that, in the 13C n.m.r. spectrum of compounds of formula I wherein one of R1 and Rê is hydrogen and the other is methyl, the diastereoisomer having the greater anti obesity and hypoglycaemic activity is that for which the signal of the methyl group carbon atom appears at higher field the lower numerical value when expressed in ppm in d6DMSO solution. The paired resonances often appear at approximately 20 ppm less active and slightly below 20 ppm more active down field from tetramethylsilane. Other paired resonances can occur for the carbon atoms attached directly to the nitrogen atom and the carbon which carries the hydroxyl and phenyl groups. Again the paired resonances of the more active diastereoisomer of the investigated compounds appear at the higher field position. The present invention provides a process for producing a compound of formula I or a salt, thereof, which process comprises reducing an oxo group and or a double bond and or a nitro group of a compound of formula II EMI5.1 3 salts of compounds of formula I need not be pharmaceutically acceptable as they are also useful in the preparation of other compounds of formula I and in the separation of stereoisomers of compounds of formula I when the salt ion is also optically active In vivo hydrolysable acyl derivatives are those which are converted to compounds of formula I in the body of a patient to whom the acyl derivative has been administered. Compounds of formula I have at least one asymmetric carbon atom, ie the one bearing the hydroxyl and substituted phenyl groups, and, when R1 and Rê are different, the carbon atom bearing R1 and Rê is also asymmetric. The compounds may therefore exist in at least two and often four stereoisomeric forms. The present invention encompasses all stereoisomers of the compounds of formula I whether free from other stereoisomers or admixed with other stereoisomers in any proportion and thus includes, for instance, racemic mixtures of enantiomers. The reaction is generally carried out at from 0 20 C. Reduction by lithium aluminium hydride is conveniently effected in a dry, ether solvent such as diethyl ether or tetrahydrofuran at ambient or elevated temperature, Catalytic reduction is conveniently effected in a conventional hydrogenation solvent such as a lower alkanol, for instance ethanol. The hydrogenation is generally carried out under hydrogen gas at about 1 atmosphere pressure to about 10 atmosphere pressure and at ambient or elevated temperature. In particular aspects, the present invention provides processes for producing compounds of formula I by reducing a compound of formula IIA EMI7.1 or reducing a compound of formula IIB EMI7.2 wherein R1, R , R4 and n are as defined in relation formula I R9 is a group Rê as defined in relation to formula I or together with R10 forms a bond R1110 is hydrogen or together with R109 or R11 forms a bond Rllis hydrogen or together with R12 forms an oxo group or together with RlOforms a bond R12is hydrogen or together with Rllforms an oxo group R13 is hydroxyl or together with R14 forms an oxo group R14 is hydrogen or together with R13forms an oxo group, provided that there is no more than one oxo group and no more than one bond represented by any of R9 to R14, and optionally thereafter forming a salt of the compound of formula I s9 formed and or converting the compound of formula I so formed into a further compound of formula I . Where there are two or more reducible moieties in the compound of formula I these may be reduced separately 4 in any order or simultaneously. When R is a reducible moiety, this may be reduced before or after a reducible 9 to 14 moiety represented by any of R to R a or not at all, or, if required and convenient, such a group may be reduced simultaneously with reducible moieties represented byR9 to R14. In particular, when R4 is nitro it may be reduced to amino and when it is a groupEMI8.1 andX is a groupEMI8.2 the carbonyl function may be.reduced to methylene. The aforementioned reductions may be effected by conventional chemical or catalytic methods, such as chemical reduction using lithium aluminium hydride, sodium cyanoborohydride or sodium borohydride or by catalytic hydrogenation using catalysts such as palladium on charcoal, or platinum, for instance, as platinum oxide. Reduction by sodium borohydride is conveniently effected in a lower alkanolic solvent such as methanol. wherein R1, Rê, R , R5, R6, X and n, are as defined in relation to formula I . The present invention also provides another process for producing a compound of formula I or a salt thereof, which process comprises reacting a compound of formula III EMI9.1 with a compound of formula IV EMI9.2 wherein R1, R2, R3, R5, X and n are as defined in relation to formula I , and optionally thereafter forming a salt of the compound of formula I so formed. This reaction is conveniently effected in a solvent such as a lower alkanol, preferably ethanol. A particular preferred process for producing compounds of formula I comprises the reduction of a compound of formula IIA , especially using sodium borohydride in methanol at ambient temperature. Compounds of formula I may be converted into further compounds of formula I by conventional processes. Thus, or reducing a compound of formula IIC EMI10.1 or reducing a compound of formula IID EMI10.2 or reducing a compound of formula IIE EMI10.3 or reducing a compound of formula IIF EMI10.4 Suitable optically active acids which may be used as resolving agents are described in Topics in Stereochemistry Vol 6, Wiley Interscience, 1971, Allinger, N.L. and Eliel, W.L. Eds. Alternatively any enantiomer of a compound of formula I may be obtained by stereospecific synthesis using an optically pure starting material of known configuration. compounds of formula II may be produced by reacting a compound of formula V EMI11.1 wherein R1, R2, R4, and n are as defined in relation to formula. I .with a compound of formula VI EMI11.2 wherein R3is as defined in relation to formula la I andY is a reactive moiety which is capable of reacting with the amine of formula V thus forming a compound of formula II . Typical examples of compounds of formula VI are for example, the compound of formula I wherein X is hydrogen may be derivatised to produce further compounds of formula I . Compoubds of formula I wherein X isEMI12.1 may be converted to the corresponding estersEMI12.2 wherein R is C1 6 alkyl. Compounds, wherein X isEMI12.3 may be reacted with a for instance, primary amines to produce further compounds of formula I wherein X isEMI12.4 NHR. The salts of compounds of formula I may be produced by treating the compound of formula I with the appropriate acid. Acyl derivatives of compounds of formula I may be produced by conventional methods. Compounds of formula I and salts thereof, produced by the above processes, may be recovered by conventional methods. Compounds of formula I having a single asymmetric carbon atom may, if desired, be separated into individual enantiomers by conventional means, for example by the use of an optically active acid as a resolving agent. Those compounds of formula I having two asymmetric carbon atoms may be separated into diastereoisomeric pairs of enantiomers by, for example, fractional cystallisation from a suitable solvent such as ethyl acetate. The pair of enantiomers thus obtained may be separated into individual stereoisomers by conventional means as by the use of an optically active acid as a resolving agent. wherein OZ is leaving group, Fr.eferably tosyloxy. Conventional conditions suitable for use with the particular compound of formula VI may be used for this reaction. Thus the reaction of a compound of formula VIA with a compound of formula V is conveniently conducted at elevated temperature under conditions resulting in the removal of the water formed during the reaction. A particularly suitable method is to perform the reaction in a solvent, such as benzene, under reflux and azeotropically to remove the water using a Dean and Stark trap. The reaction of a compound of formula VIB with a compound of formula V is conveniently conducted in a polar organic solvent such as acetonitrile or butanone, at an elevated temperature, for instance under reflux. The reaction of a compound of formula VIC with a compound of formula V is conveniently conducted under standard peptide formation readtion conditions. The reaction of a compound of formula VID with a compound of formula V is conveniently conducted in a solvent such as a lower alkanol, preferably ethanol. The reaction of a compound of formula VIE with a compound of formula V is conveniently conducted in a solvent such as dimethyl sulphoxide at elevated temperature, preferably 500C for about 3 days. By using single enantiomers of a compound of formula V and a compound of formula VI such as the compounds VIC or VID a stereospecific synthesis of a compound of formula II is achieved. This may then be reduced to aCompound of formula I without altering the configuration of the two asymmetric carbon atoms.Thus, for example a a compound of formula V with the R absolute configuration and a compound of formula VID with the R absolute config EMI14.1 or its hydrate or hemi acetal of a lower alkanol EMI14.2 wherein Z is a halogen atom a preferably bromine EMI14.3 wherein R1, R2, R4 and n are as defined in relation to formula I and OZ is a leaving group, preferably tosyloxy. The reaction of a compound of formula VII with a compound of formula VIII is conveniently effected under conditions which result in the removal of water formed during the reaction. A particularly suitable method is to perform the reaction in a solvent, such as benzene, under reflux and azeotropically to remove the water using aDean and Stark trap. The reaction of a compound of formula VII with a compound of formula IX is conveniently effected in a solvent such as dimethylsulphoxide at elevated temperature, preferably about 500C for about two to three days. uration would afford a compound of formula I with theRR absolute configuration. In a modification of the above process for producing compounds of formula II , the N benzyl derivative of a compound of formula V may be reacted with a compound of formula II is produced and this may be reduced to a compound of formula I using a catalytic hydrogenation reaction, especially using palladium on charcoal as catalyst. Certain compounds of formula II may also be produced by reacting a compound of formula VII EMI16.1 with a compound of the formula VIII EMI16.2 wherein R1, R3, R4 and n are as defined in relation to formula I . or a compound of formula IX EMI16.3 Typical carriers may, therefore, comprise such agents as microcrystalline cellulose, starch, sodium starch glycollateç polyvinylpyrrolidone, polyvinylpolypyrrolidone, magnesium stearate, sodium lauryl sulphate, sucrose and the like. Most suitably the composition will be provided in unit dose form. Such unit doses will normally comprise 0l to 500 mg of the drug, more usually Ool to 250 mg and favourably 0.1 to 100 mg. The present invention further provides a method for treating obesity in humans or domestic mammals, which method comprises administering an effective, non toxic amount of a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or in vivo hydrolysable acyl derivative thereof to obese humans or domestic mammals. Conveniently, the drug may be administered as a pharmaceutical composition as hereinbefore defined, and this forms a particular aspect of the present invention. In treating obese humans the drug may be taken in doses, such as those described above, one to six times a day in a manner such that the totaly daily dose for a 70 kg adult will generally be about 0.1 to 1000 mg, and more usually about 1 to 500 mgO In treating obese domestic mammals, especially dogs, the drug may be administered by mouth, usually once or twice a day and at about 0.025 mg kg to 2o5 mg kg, for example 0.1 mg kg to 2 mg kg. It is often convenient to prepare the compound of formula II and reduce it, in situ, to the desired compound of formula I without isolation of the compound of formula 11 . A compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof hereinafter the drug may be administered as the pure drug, however, it is preferred that the drug be administered as a pharmaceutical composition also comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Accordingly, the present invention also provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or in vivo hydrolysable acyl derivative thereof with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier therefor. As used herein the terms pharmaceutical composition and pharmaceutically acceptable embrace compositions and ingredients for both human and veterinary use. Usually the compositions of the present invention will be adapted for oral administration although compositions for administration by other routes, such as by injection are also envisaged For treatment of inflammation the compounds would be administered topically. Particularly suitable compositions for oral administration are unit dosage forms such as tablets and capsules. Other fixed unit dosage forms, such as powders presented in sachets, may also be used. In accordance with conventional pharmaceutical practice the carrier may comprise a diluent, binder, filler, disintegrant, wetting agent, lubricant, colourant, flavourant, or the like. EXAMPLE 1N 2 4 Methylsulphonylaminophenyl 1 methylethyl 2 hydroxv 2 phenylethanamine EMI19.1 A mixture of phenylethanolamine 1.08 g and 1 4 methylsulphonylaminophenyl propan 2 one 1.8 g was heated under reflux in benzene 100 ml with removal of water using a Dean Stark trap. After two hours, the benzene was evaporated, the residue dissolved in methanol 50 ml and the solution cooled in ice water. Sodium borohydride o.5 g was added and after ten minutes the solution was evaporated to dryness. The solid residue was partitioned between ethylacetate and water1 the organic layer separated, dried and evaporated to give N 2 4 methylsulphonylaminophenyl l methylethyl 2 hydroxy 2 phenylethanamine as an oil.Crystallisation from heptane gave the compound,m.p. 150 1560C,as a 51 49 mixture of diastereoisomers. 1H n.m.r. DMSO d6 9.06 3H,d1J 6Ez. , 7.0 7.8 5H,m , 7.1 3H,s , 5.5 lH,m , 4.0 5.4 3H, broad1 replaceable by D20 , 2.8 4H,m , 2.7 5H,s . The present invention further provides a method for treating hyperglycaemia in humans which method comprises administering an effective, non toxic amount of a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or in vivo hydrolysable acyl derivative thereof to hyperglycaemic humans. Conveniently, the drug may be administered as a pharmaceutical composition as hereinbefore defined, and this forms a particular aspect of the present invention. The drug may be taken in doses such as those described above for treating obese humans. The present invention further provides a method for treating inflammation in humans which method comprises administering an effective, non toxic amount of a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or in vivo hydrolysable acyl derivative thereof to humans.suffering inflammation. The invention will now be illustrated with reference to the following Examples, which are not intended to limit the scope in any way. EXAMPLE 3N 2 4 Ethoxycarbonylaminophenyl 1 methylethyl 2 hydro 2 3 trifluoromethylphenyl ethanamineEMI21.1 Starting from 2 hydroxy 2 3 trifluoromethylphenyl ethanamine 2.69 g and 1 4 ethoxycarbonylaminophenyl propan 2 one 2.9 g N 2 4 ethoxycarbonylaminophenyl l methylethyl 2 hydroxy 2 3 trifluoromethylphenyl ethanamine was prepared according to the method ofExample 1 and crystallised from heptane benzene as a hemihydrate, m.p. 102 1040C,as a mixture of diastereoisomers. 1H n.m.r. DMSO d6 9.15 3H,d,J 6Hz , 8.8 3H,t,J 6Hz 7.1 7.8 5H,m , 6.4 7.0 1H, broad, replaceable by D20 , 5.85 2H,q,J 6Hz , 5.35 lH,m , 4.2 4.8 111, broad, replaceable by D20 , 2.9 2H,dd,J 8Hz,J 2Hz , 2.6 2H,dd,J 8Hz, J 2Hz , 2.2 2.5 4H,m , 0.5 1H,2, replaceable byD2O . EXAMPLE 2N 2 4 Methylsulphonylaminophenyl 1 methylethyl 2hydroxy 2 3 trifluoromethylphenyl ethanamineEMI22.1 Starting from 2 hydroxy 2 3 trifluoromethylphenyl ethanamine 1.63 g and l 4 methylsulphonylaminophenyl propan 2 one 1.8 g , N 2 4 Methylsulphonylaminophenyl l methylethyl 2 hydroxy 2 3 trifluoromethylphenyl ethanamine was prepared according to the method of Example 1 and crystallised from hexane ether, m.p. 53 70 C as a 54 46 mixture of diastereoisomers. H n.m.r.t CDC13 8.96 3H,d,J 6Hz , 6.8 7.7 5H,m 111 replaceable by D20 , 7.05 3H,s , 5.25 lH,m , 4.5 6.0 2H, broad, replaceable by D20 , 2.7 3.0 4H,m , 2.2 2.6 4H,m . EXAMPLE 5 N F2 4 Methylaminocarbonvlaminophenyl 1 rnethyletbvl 2hydroxy 2 3 trifluoromethylphenyl ethanamineEMI23.1 A solution of N 2 4 ehtoxycarbonylaminophenyl 1 methylethyl 2 hydroxy 2 3 trifluoromethylphenyl ethanamine 1.0 g in ethanol 10 ml was added to a solution of methylamine in ethanol 20 ml and the mixture heated at 1000C in a screw cap bomb for six hours. After cooling to room temperature, the solution was evaporated, and the residue crystallised from chloroform methanol affordingN 2 4 methylaminocarbonylaminophenyl 1 methylethyl 2 hydroxy 2 3 trifluoromethylphenyl ethanamine, m.p.82 122 C as a 52 48 mixture of diastereosimers. 1H n.m.r. alpha DMSO d6 9.1 3H,d,J 6Hz , 7.35 3H,d,J 5Hz , 7.0 7.5 5H,m , 5.7 7.0 2H, broad, replaceable by D20 , 5.3 lH,m , 4.0 1H,m, slowly replaceable byD20 , 2.95 2H,d,J 8Hz , 2.7 2H,d,J 8Hz , 2.2 2.5 4H,m , 1.5 lH,s, replaceable by D20 EXAMPLE 4N 2 4 Acetylaminophenyl 1 methylethyl 2 hydroxy 2 3 trifluoromethylphenyl ethanamine EMI24.1 Starting from 2 hydroxy 2 3 trifluoromethylphenyl ethanamine 5.8 g and 1 4 acetylaminophenyl propan 2 one 5.4 g ,N 2 4 acetylaminophenyl 1 methylethyl 2hydroxy 2 3 trifluoromethylphenyl ethanamine was prepared according to the method of Example 1 and crystallised from dichloromethane, m.p. 85 900C as a 44 56 mixture of diastereoisomers. H.n.m.r DMSO d6 9.1 3H,d,J 6Hz , 8.2 8.6 1H, broad, replaceable by D20 7.95 3H,s , 7.0 7.6 5H,m , 6.4 7.0 1H, broad, replaceable by D20 , 5.3 lH,m , 4.5 1H, broad, replaceable by D20 , 2.9 2H,ddJJ 8Hz, J 2Hz , 2.2 2.65 6H,m , 0.15 1H,s, replaceable by D2O . EXAMPLE 7N 2 4 Aminophenyl 1 methylethyl 2 hydroxy 2 3 trifluoromethylphenyl ethanamineEMI25.1 N 2 4 Nitrophenyl 1 methylethyl 2 hydroxy 2 3 trifluoromethylphenyl ethanamine 1.0 g in ethanol 50 ml was hydrogenated in the presence of palladium charcoal 10 w w, 0.2 g at ambient temperature and pressure. When hydrogen uptake ceased the catalyst was filtered and the solvent removed to give N t2 4 aminophenyl l methylethyl 2 hydroxy 2 3 trifluoromethylphenyl ethanamine as an oil. 1H n.m.r. CDCl3 8.9 3H,d,J 6Hz 6.3 7.4 9H,m, 4 replaceable by D20 5.35 1H,m 3.32 2H,d, J 811z 3.0 2H,d,J 8Hz 2.40 4H,m The product in dry ether was treated with an ethereal solution of hydrogen chloride. The resulting solid was filtered and crystallised from methanol ethyl acetate to give N 2 4 aminophenyl 1 methylethyl 2 hydroxy 2 3 trifluoromethyphenyl ethanamine dihydrochloride m.p. 250 53 as a 48 52 mixture of diastereoisomers. H n.m.r. DMSO d6 8.60 3.60,d,J 6Hz 6.3 7.6 7H,m, 2 replaceable by D2O 4.80 1H,m 2.67 4H,s 2.25 4H,m 0 1.5 4H, broad, replaceable by D20 EXAMPLE 6N 2 4 Ethylaminophenayl 1 methaylethyl 2 hydroxy 2 3 trifluoromethylphenyl ethanamineEMI26.1 To a slurry of lithium aluminium hydride 1 g in dry tetrahydrofuran, was added dropwise, a solution ofN 2 4 acetylaminophenyl 1 methylethyl 2 hydroxy 2 3 trifluoromethylphenyl ethanamine 1.9 g in dry tetrahydrofuran 20 ml . The mixture was stirred and heated at reflux for one hour. Water 1 ml , dilute sodium hydroxide solution 1 ml and water 3 ml were successively added, the mixture filtered, dried and evaporated.The product was treated with ethereal hydrogen chloride and crystallised from methanol ether as the dihydrochloride salt N 2 4 ethylaminophenayl 1 methaylethyl 2 hydroxy 2 3 trifluoromethylphenyl ethanamine m.p. 153 173 as a 30 70 mixture of diastereoisomers. 1H n.m.r DMSO d6 8.8 3H,d,J 6Hz 8.8 3H,d 6 J 6Hz , 7.2 111,m , 6.2 7.0 6H,m 3H replaceable by D20 , 4.7 111,m , 2.0 2.7 8H,m , 0.9 1H, broad, replaceable by D20 , 0.2 1H, broad, replaceable by D20 . EXAMPLE 9N 2 4 Nitrophenyl 1 methylethyl 2 hydroxy 2 3 tri fluoromethylphenyl ethanamineEMI27.1 A mixture of 2 hydroxy 2 3 trifluormethylphenyl ethanamine 6.15 g and 1 4 nitrophenyl propan 2 one 5.37 g in dry benzene 80 ml was heated under reflux in a Dean and Stark apparatus. After two hours the benzene was evaporated, the residue dissolved in methanol 150 ml and the solution cooled in iced water. Sodium borohydride 5 g was added portionwise with stirring and on completion of the addition the mixture was stirred at room temperature for two hours. Water 200 ml was added, extracted with dichloromethane, the organic layers dried magnesium sulphate and evaporated.The residue was eluted from silica gel in methanol dichloromethane mixtures to give N 2 4 nitrophenyl 1 methylethyl 2 hydroxy 2 3 trifluormethylphenyl ethanamine m.p. 70 75 0C as a 52 48 mixture of diastereoisomers. 1H n.m.r. CDCl3 8.95 3H,d,J 4Hz 6.8 8.0 7H,m,2H replaceable by D20 5.38 lH,m 2.73 2H,d,J 6Hz 2.3 2.6 t4H,m 1.87 2H,d,J 6EZ EXAMPLE 8N 2 4 Methoxycarbonylmethylaminophenyl 1 methylethyl 2 hydroxy 2 3 trifluormethylphenyl ethanamineEMI28.1 A mixture of 2 hydroxy 2 3 trifluormethylphenyl ethanamine 2.78 g and 1 4 methoxycarbonylmethylamino phenyl propan 2 one 3.00 g in dry benzene 100 ml was heated under reflux with removal of water using a Dean andStark trap. After two hours the benzene was evaporated, the residue dissolved in methanol 50 ml platinum oxide 50 mg added and the mixture hydrogenated at ambient temperature and pressure until hydrogen uptake ceased. The solution was filtered through diatomaceous earth,. evaporated and the residue chomatographed on silica gel in methanol dichloromethane mixtures. Crystallisation from methanolethylacetate gave N 2 4 methoxycarbonylmethylaminophenyl 1 methylethyl 2 hydroxy 2 3 trifluormethylphenyl ethanamine m.p. 92 97 C as a 64 36 mixture of diastereoisomers. 1H n.m.r CDCl3 9.0 3H,d,J 6Hz 6.80 7.70 8H,m, 3 replaceable by D20 6.32 3H,s 5.85 2H,s 5.5 lH,m 3.38 2H,d,Ji8HZ , 3.00 2H,d,J 8Hz 2.45 4H,m EXAMPLE 11N 2 4 1 Pyrrolidyl phenyl 1 methylethyl 2 hydroxy 2 3 trifluoromethyIphenyl ethanamine EMI29.1 Starting from 2 hydroxy 2 3 trifluormethylphenyl ethanamine 0.7g and 1 4 1 pyrrolidyl phenyl propan 2 one 0.7g ,N 2 4 1 pyrrolidyl phenyl 1 methylethyl 2 hydroxy 2 3 trifluoromethylphenyl ethanamine m.p. 103 1170C was prepared according to the method of Example 1 and crystallised from hexane as a 38 62 mixture of diastereoisomers.1H nmr t CDC13 8.9 3H,d,J 6Hz , 8.0 4H,m , 6.9 7.7 5H,m 2H replaceable by D20 , 6.7 4H,m , 5.4 lH,m , 3.5 2H,dd,J 8Hz, J 2Hz , 3.0 2H,dd,J 8Hz, J 2Hz , 2.3 2.7 4H,m . EXAMPLE 10N 2 4 Dimethylaminophenyl 1 methylethyl 2 hydroxy 2 3 trifluormethylphenyl ethanamineEMI30.1 Starting from 2 hydroxy 2 3 trifluoromethylphenyl ethanamine 4.7 g and 1 4 dimethylaminophenyl propan 2 one 4.01 g , N 2 4 dimethylaminophenyl 1 methylethyl 2 hydroxy 2 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl ethanamine was prepared according to the method of Example 1 and crystallised from hexane, mp 92 1050C as a 32 68 mixture of diastereoisomers. 1H n.m.r. CDCl3 8.95 3H,d,J 6Hz , 6.95 7.6 5H,m 2H replaceable by D20 , 7.10 6H,s , 5.40 111,m , 3.32 2H,dd,J 8Hz,J 2Hz , 3.01 2H,dd,J 8Hz, J 2Hz , 2.5 4H,m . EXAMPLE 13N 2 4 1 4 Carboethoxy piperidyl phenyl 1 methylethyl 2 hydroxy 2 3 trifluormethylphenyl ethanamineEMI31.1 Starting from 2 hydroxy 2 3 trifluoromethylphenyl ethanamine 4.lg and 1 4 1 4 carboxyethyl piperidyl phenyl propan 2 one 5.78g , N t2 4 1 4 carboethoxy piperidyl phenyl l methylethyiJ 2 hydroxy 2 3 trifluoro methylphenyl ethanamine m.p. 75 790C was prepared according to the method of Example 1 as a 50 50 mixture of diastereoisomers.1H nmr CDCl3 8.9 3H,d,J 8Hz , 8.75 3H,t,J 7Hz , 7.9 8.45 4H,m , 6.9 7.75 8H,m 2H replaceable by D20 , 6.25 6.6 2H,m , 5.9 2H,q,J 7Hz , 5.25 5.55 lH,m , 2.9 3.3 4H,m , 2.3 2.65 4H,m . EXAMPLE 12N 2 4 4 Morpholino phenyl 1 methylethyl 2 hydroxy 2 3 trifluormethylphenyl ethanamineEMI32.1 Starting from 2 hydroxy 2 3 trifluormethylphenyl ethanamine 2.81g and 1 4 4 morpholino phenyl propan 2 one 3g ,N 2 4 4 morpholino phenyl 1 methylethyl 2 hydroxy 2 3 trifluormethylphenyl ethanamine m.p. 92 112 C was prepared according to the method of Example 1 and crystallised from hexane as a 50 50 mixture of diastereoisomers.1H nmr t CDC13 8.9 3H,d,J 8Hz , 6.75 7.50 10H,m, 1H replaceable by D20 , 6.0 6.3 4H,m , 5.25 5.55 lH,m , 3.2 2H,dd, J 8Hz, J 2Hz , 2.9 2H,dd,J 8Hz, J 2Hz , 2.3 2.6 4H,m . DESCRIPTION 1 1 4 Methylsulphonylaminophenyl propan 2 oneEMI33.1 To a stirred solution of l 4 aminophenyl propan 2 one ethylene ketal 2 g in dry pyridine 20 ml , was added dropwise, methanesulphonylchloride 1.48 g .After four hours at room temperature the mixture was poured onto ice water and the product extracted into chloroform. The chloroform extracts were evaporated to dryness, the residue was dissolved in acetone 100 ml and hydrochloric acid 2M,2 ml , and the solution stirred at room temperature for sixteen hours. The solution was evaporated to remove the acetone, and the residue extracted with chloroform. Drying magnesium sulphate and removal of solvent gave 1 4 methylsulphonylaminophenyl propan 2 one, as an oil. 1 11 n.m.r. alpha CDC13 7.8 3H,s , 7.0 3H,s , 6.3 2H,s , 2.85 4H,s , 2.55 ClH,s, replaceable by D20 . EXAMPLE 14 N C2 4 1 4 N MethvlcarbcXamido piperidyl phenV1 1 methylethyl 2 hydroxy 2 3 trifluoromethylphenyl ethanamineEMI34.1 N 2 4 1 4 carboethoxy piperidyl phenyl 1 methylethyl 2 hydroxy 2 3 trifluormethylphenyl ethanamine 1.5g was dissolved in ethanol containing methylamine, and heated at 1000C in a screw cap bomb for 5 hours. The ethanol was evaporated and the residue crystallised for diethyl ether to afford N 2 4 1 4 N methylcarboxamido piperdiyl phenyl 1 methylethyl 2 hydroxy 2 3 trifluormethylphenyl ethanamine m.p. 130 144 C, as the hemihydrate.1H nmr T CDC13 8.8 3H,d,J 8Hz , 7.9 8.2 4H,m , 6.7 7.5 7H,m 3H,d,J 4Hz , 6.0 6.6 3H,m , 5.7 3H, broad singlet, replaceable by D20 , 5.1 lH,m , 4.3 lH,bd, replaceable by D20 , 2.8 3.2 4H,m , 2.2 2.6 4H,m . DESCRIPTION 3 1 4 Acetylaminophenyl propan 2 one EMI35.1 To a solution of l 4 aminophenyl propan 2 one ethylene ketal 6 g in toluene, was added acetic anhydride 20 ml . The solution was stirred and heated under reflux for 2 hours, cooled, the solvent removed and the residue dissolved in acetone 100 ml and hydrochloric acid 2, 10 ml . After sixteen hours at room temperature the solution was neutralised by addition of sodium bicarbonate solution and the acetone evaporated. The aqueous residue was extracted with ethylacetate, the organic phase dried magnesium sulphate and evaporated to give 1 4 acetylaminophenyl propan 2 one. 1H n.m.r. CDCl3 7.8 6H,s , 6.3 2H,s , 2.9 2H,d,J 6Hz , 2.55 2H,d,J 6HZ 2.0 1H, broad, replaceable by D,O DESCRIPTION 2 1 4 Ethoxycarbonylaminophenyl propan 2 oneEMI36.1 1 4 Ethoxycarbonylaminophenyl propan 2 one was prepared according to the method of Description 1 but replacing methanesulphonylchloride with ethylchloroformate. 1H n.m.r. t CDC13 8.7 3H,t,J 6Hz , 7.8 3H,s , 6.3 2H,s , 5.7 2H,q,J 6HZ , 2.3 3.0 4H,m 1H replaceable by D2O . DESCRIPTION 5 1 4 Aminophenyl propan 2 one ethylene ketalEMI37.1 1 4 Nitrophenyl propan 2 one ethylene ketal 5 g in ethanol 70 ml was hydrogenated in the presence of palladium on charcoal 10 w w at 60 psi and room temperature. When hydrogen uptake had ceased the catalyst was filtered off and the solvent removed under reduced pressure to give l 4 awminophenyl propan 2 one ethylene ketal as a red oil. 1H n.m.r. CDCl3 8.71 3H,s 7.27 2H,s 6.65 2H, broad, replaceable by D2O 6.15 4H,m 3.43 2H,d,J 8Hz 2.96 2H,d,J 8Hz DESCRIPTION 4 1 4 Nitrophenyl propan 2 one ethylene ketalEMI38.1 To a stirred solution of 4 nitrophenylpropanone 10 g in dry benzene 100 ml was added ethylene glycol 10 ml andp toluenesulphonic acid 100 mg . The mixture was boiled under reflux in a Dean and Stark apparatus until water evolution ceased. The mixture was cooled to room temperature, washed with water a dried magnesium sulphate and the solvent removed under reduced pressure to give 1 4 nitrophenyl propan 2 one ethylene ketal as a red oil. 1H n.m.r. CCCDCl3 8.7 3H,s 6.9 2H,s 6.0 6.35 4H,m 2.55 2H,d,J 8Hz 1.72 2H,d,J 8Hz . DESCRIPTION 7 1 4 Dimethylaminophenyl 2 nitroprop 1 eneEMI39.1 A mixture of 4 dimethylaminobenzaldehyde 18.3 g and ammonium acetate 9o66 g in nitroethane 75 ml was heated to boiling for 1 hour. On cooling the product separated as a deep red solid 10 g . 1H n.m.r. CDCl3 7.5 3H,s , 6.9 6H,s , 7.26 2H,d,J 8Hz , 2.6 2H,d,J 8Hz , 1.98 111,s . DESCRIPTION 6 1 4 Methoxycarbonylmethylaminophenyl propan 2 oneEMI40.1 Methyl bromoacetate 3.06 g was added to a solution of l 4 aminophenyl propan 2 one ethyleneketal 3.86 g in hexamethylphosphoramide 20 ml and the mixture was stirred at 110 C for two hours. After cooling, water 250 ml was added and the solution extracted with ether.The combined organic extracts were washed with water, dried magnesium sulphate and evaporated to dryness. The residue was dissolved in methanol 40 ml , hydrochloric acid 2M, 10 ml was added and the solution was stirred at room temperature for two hours. The solution was basified with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution, extracted with ether, the organic extracts dried magnesium sulphate and evaporated to give l 4 mzthoxycarbonylmethyl aminophenyl propan 2 one. 1H n.m.r. CDCl3 7.95 3H,s , 6.45 2H,s , 6.23 3H,s 6.10 2H,s 3.45 2H,d,J 8Hz 2.93 2H,d,J 8Hz DESCRIPTION 9 4 1 Pyrrolidyl benzaldehydeEMI41.1 A mixture of 4 fluorobenzaldehyde 14.8g pyrrolidine 9.94g and anhydrous pottassium carbonate 16.56g in dimethyl sulphoxide some was headed at 950C for 6 hours.The reaction mixture was cooled, poured in to ice water 300ml and the precipitated solid isolated by filtration.The solid was crystallised from heptane, to give the title compound m.p. 80 840C. 1H nmr CDCl3 7.9 4H,m , 6.6 4H,m , 3.4 2H,d,J 8Hz 2.2 2H,d,J 8Hz , 0.2 lH,s DESCRIPTION 8 1 4 Dimethylaminophenyl propan 2 oneEMI42.1 To a stirred mixture of l 4 dimethylaminophenyl 2 nitro prop l ene 22 g and iron 22 g in tetrahydrofuran 200 ml was added concentrated hydrochloric acid 130 ml at reflux over a period of 1 hour. Heating was continued for a further 1 hour, the solution cooled, filtered through diatomaceous earth, and evaporated. The residue was neutralised by addition of sodium hydroxide solution 2M and extracted with ether. The ether extract was washed successively with sodium bicarbonate solution 1.2M , water and dried magnesium sulphate .Evaporation gave an oil which was distilled at reduced pressure to give 1 4 dimethylaminophenyl propan 2 one 7.6 g b.p.110 1130C 0. mm . 1H n.m.r. CDCl3 7.95 3H,s , 7.12 6H,s , 6o5 2H,s , 3.35 2H,d,J 8Hz , 2.95 2H,d,J 8Hz DESCRIPTION 11 1 4 1 Pyrrolidyl phenyl propan 2 oneEMI43.1 The title compound was prepared as in Description 8, using 1 4 1 pyrrolidyl phenyl 2 nitroprop 1 ene, instead of 1 4 dimethylaminophenyl 2 nitroprop 1 ene, as an oil, b.p. 60 650C 0.5mm Hg.1H nmr CDCl3 8.0 4H,m , 7.9 3H,s , 6.7 4H,m , 6.4 2H,s , 3.5 2H,d, 3 8Hz , 2.95 2H,d, J 8Hz . DESCRIPTION 10 1 4 1 Pyrrolidyl phenyl 2 nitroprop 1 eneEMI44.1 The title compound was prepared as in Description 7 using 4 l pyrrolidyl benzaldehyde instead of 4dimethylaminobenzaldehyde.1H nmr t CDC13 7.95 4H,m , 7.55 3H,s , 6.68 4H,m , 3.45 2H,d,J 8Hz , 2.65 2H,d,J 8Hz , 1.95 lH,s . DESCRIPTION 13 1 4 4 Morpholino phenyl 2 nitroprop 1 eneEMI45.1 A mixture of 1 4 morpholino benzaldehyde log and n butylamine 7.0ml in benzene, was heated under reflux for 3 hours with the water formed removed by a Dean andStark trap. The solution was cooled, evaporated and the residue dissolved in glacial acetic acid 20ml . Nitroethane 9.5ml was then added and the mixture stirred and heated at 100 C for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was cooled, evaporated to dryness and the solid residue crystallised from ethanol. 1H nmr CDCl3 7.5 3H,s , 6.7 4H,m , 6.2 4H,m , 3.1 2H,drJ 8Hz , 2.5 2H,d,J 8Hz , 1.95 lH,s DESCRIPTION 12 4 4 Morpholino benzaldehydeEMI46.1 The title compound was prepared as in Description 9 using morpholine instead of pyrrolidine and crystallised from ethanol m.p. 61 630C. 1H nmr CDCl3 6.7 4H,m , 6.2 4H,m , 3.1 2H,d,J 8Hz , 2.25 2H,d,J 8Hz , 0.2 lH,s . DESCRIPTION 15 4 1 4 Carboethoxy piperidyl benzadehydeEMI47.1 The title compound was prepared as in Description 9 from ethylisonipecotate 29.4g and 4 fluorobenzaldehyde 20g .1H nmr CDCl3 8.75 3H,t,J 8Hz , 6.7 8.5 8H,m , 5.8 6.3 lH,m , 5.8 2H,q,J 8Hz , 3.1 2H,d,J 8Hz , 2.3 2H,d,J 8Hz , 0.3 lH,s . DESCRIPTION 14 1 4 4 Morpholino phenyl propan 2 oneEMI48.1 The title compound was prepared as in Description 8,using 1 4 4 morpholino phenyl 2 nitroprop 1 ene instead of l 4 dimethylamino 2 nitroprop l ene, as an oil b.p. 149 1500C 0.5mm Hg.1H nmr CDCl3 7.9 3H,s , 6.9 4H,m , 6.4 2H,s , 6.2 4H,m , 2.7 3.3 4H,m . DESCRIPTION 17 1 4 1 4 Carboetoxy piperidyl phenyl propan 2 oneEMI49.1 The title compound was prepared as in Description 8 using 1 E4 1 4 carboethoxypiperidyl phenyl 2 nitroprop 1 ene instead of 1 4 dimethylaminophenyl 2 nitroprop 1 ene.1H nmr CDCl3 8.75 3H,t,J 6Hz , 7.0 8.3 8H,m , 7.88 3H,s , 6.2 6.6 lH,m , 6.4 2H,s , 5.8 2H,q,J 6Hz , 2.7 3.3 4H,m . DESCRIPTION 16 1 4 1 4 Carboethoxy piperidyl phenyl 2 nitroprop 1 eneEMI50.1 The title compound was prepared as in Description 7 using 4 1 4 carboethoxy piperidyl benzaldehyde instead of 4 dimethylaminobenzaldehyde.1H nmr tACDC13 8.8 3H,t,J 6Hz , 7.8 8.4 4H,m , 7.5 3H,s , 6.7 7.3 4H,m , 6.0 6.5 lH,m , 5.9 2H,q,J 6Hz , 3.2 2H,d,J 8Hz , 2.6 2H,d,J 8Hz , 2.0 lH,s . STABLE 1Compound of Dose Mean Energy MeanExample No. mg kg p.o. Expenditure Food 0 3 .h 0 21 h Intake 1 19.5 130 95 80 2 23.2 142 102 99 .3 19.6 139 121 76 4 22.0 151 115 72 5 21.2 159 121 72 6 24.4 169 128 108 7 22.8 182 118 84 8 22.8 140 9 21.0 112 115 10 20.4 169 125 11 21.8 151 112 95 12 22.7 143 121 72 13 23.8 121 103 95 14 26.3 118 102 106 PHARMACOLOGICAL DATAEffect on energy expenditure The effect of the compounds on the energy expenditure of mice was demonstrated by means of the following procedure Female CFLP mice each weighing approximately 24 g, were given food and water ad lib before and during the experiment.The compounds were dissolved in water by addition of one mole of hydrochloric acid per mole of compound and these solutions were administered orally to each of 12 mice. A further 12 mice were dosed orally with water. The mice were placed in boxes through which air was drawn and the oxygen content of the air leaving the boxes was measured. The energy expenditure of the mice was calculated for 21 hours after dosing from the volume of air leaving the boxes and its oxygen content, following the principles described by J.B. de V. Weir, J. Physiol. London 109, 1 9, 1949 . The food intake of the mice was measured over this same period of 21 hours. The results are expressed as a percentage of the mean food intake or rate of energy expenditure of the mice dosed with water.Results are given in Table I. iii Hypoglycaemic Activity Female CFLP mice, weighing approximately 25 g, ee fasted for 24 hours prior to the study. The compounds under study were administered orally as an aqueous solution to each of 8 mice. 30 minutes later a blood sample 20 l was obtained from the tail for the analysis of blood glucose. Immediately after taking this blood sample, glucose 1 g kg body weight was administered subcutaneously to each mouse. 8 mice were given water as a control. Blood samples were then obtained from each mouse at 30.minute intervals for 120 minutes. Compounds that produced a significant P 0.05 reduction of blood glucose, compared with control mice given water, at any time interval , were considered active.The area under the blood glucose curve over the 2 hour period after the administration of the glucose was calculated for each compound and compared with the value for control animals. Results are given in Table 3. TABLE 3Compound of Dose Reduction in area underExample No. pmol kg Blood glucose curve 1 12.5 24.7 4 2.5 15.9 7 1.0 38.0 8 2.5 36.2 9 12.5 13.2 ii Cardiac Activity Rat hearts were perfused by the Langendorff procedure.Hearts were dissected free within 30 seconds of death and reverse perfused via the aorta and coronary vessels with Krebs Ringerbicarbonate solution pH 7.4, 370C gassed with 95 oxygen 5 carbon dioxide at a flow rate between 3 8 12 cm minute. Responses were observed after injection of drug dissolved in isotonic saline into the perfusion media. Heart rate and tension were displayed on an OrmedMX2P recorder via a tension transducer and heart ratemeter. Results are given in Table 2, expressed as a percentage of the maximum response due to salbutamol. TABLE 2Compound of Dose added to Heart HeartExample No Perfusate pig Tension Rate 1 30 64 20 2 10 0 25 3 10 6 25 4 30 20 100 6 10 18 25 7 10 62 67 8 30 73 120 9 30 5 0 10 30 0 12 11 30 0 13 v Anti obesity activity The compounds were administered by oral gavage in water or carboxymethyl cellulose suspension to genetically obese mice daily for 28 days. At the end of the time the carcass composition was determined. The results obtained were as follows TABLE 5Compound of Dose mg kg g lipid mouseExample No. p.o. treated control 4 10.6 16.50 18.75 10 8.0 18.13 19.56 11 10.9 17.05 22.55 12 11.4 16.41 23.98 vi Toxicity No toxic effects were observed during the above experiments. iv Platelet Aggregation Inhibition Activity Male CFLP mice ca 20 g, n 8 were dosed orally with compound or vehicle controls after an overnight fast. Two hours later each mouse received an intravenous dose of collagen 400 Wg kg, pH 6 6.6 . Exactly 30 sec after injection of collagen, each mouse was placed in a chamber of CO2 until respiration ceased. Blood platelet concentration was determined Ultra Flo 100 whole blood platelet counter,Clay Adams in blood samples 3 p1 taken immediately from the inferior vena cava. Each concentration was expressed as a per cent of that obtained in a tail blood sample taken immediately before injection of collagen.Results are given in Table 4. TABLE 4 Dose p.o. Inhibition ofCompound Wmol mg kg response to collagenAspirin 600 108 38 p .0.05 Example 8 2.5 Cl 42 p 0.02