# Herbicide antidotes, production, use and compositions thereof.

## Abstract
Certain haloalkylcarbonylamino 1,3 dioxane herbicide antidotes corresponding to the following general for mula Such compounds may be formulated with inert di luents or carriers and or adjuvants or with herbicides, in particular thiocarbamates or acetanilides. The use of such compounds counteracts crop dam age caused by herbicides and hence provides a method of establishing herbicidal selectivity.

## Claims
Claims 1. A compound characterised in that it corresponds to the following general formula EMI43.1 where inR represents chloro bromo or iodo Cl C4 alkyl R1 represents hydrogen, C1 C4 alkyl, c2 C4 alkenyl or phenyl R2 represents hydrogen or C1 C4 alkyl R3 represents hydrogen or C1 C4 alkyl andR4 represents hydrogen or nitrophenyl provided that one of R3 and R4 represents hydrogen. 2. A compound as claimed in claim 1 wherein R represents l chloro 2 bromo R1 represents hydrogen R2 represents hydrogen R3 represents ethyl and R4 represents hydrogen. 3. A process for the production of a compound as claimed in claim 1 characterised in that it comprises reacting an appropriate haloalkylcarbonyl chloride with 5 methyl 5 amino l , 3 dioxane. 4. A process for the production of a compound as claimed in claim 1 characterised in tat it comprises reacting an appropriate dialkoxy compound with an appropriate dihydroxyalkyl haloacetamide. 5. A composition characterised in that it compriscs a compound as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 and an inert diluent or carrier and or adjuvant. 6. A composition characterised in that it comprises a non phytotoxic antidotably effective amount of a compound as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 and a herbicidally effective amount of a thiocarbamate corresponding to the following general formula EMI44.1 whereinR5 represents C1 C6 alkyl R6 represents C1 C6 alkyl or cyclohexyl orR5 and R6 together represent C4 C10 a lkylene andR7 represents C1 C6 alkyl C2 C6 alkenyl or benzyl, all of which may optionally be chloro , bromo or iodo substituted or a herbicidally effective amount of an acetanilide corresponding to the following general formula EMI44.2 whereinR8 represents hydrogen or C1 C6 alkyl Rg represents Ci C6 alkyl, C1 C8 alkoxy or carbethoxy C1 C4 alkyl andR10 represents hydrogen or C1 C6 alkyl. 7. it composition as claimed in claim 6 wherein R5 represents propyl R6 represents propyl and R7 represents propyl or P represents propyl R6 represents propyl and R7 represents ethyl or R5 represente ethyl R6 represents cyclohexyl and R7 represents ethyl or R8 represents ethyl R9 represents methoxymethyl and R10 represents ethyl or R8 represents methyl Rg represents methoxyethyl and R10 represents methyl. 8. A method oE establishing herbicidal selectivity characterised in that it comprises applying to a locus where the said selectivity is desired a compound as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 or a composition as claimed in any of claims 5 to 7. Claims 1. A process for the production of a compound corresponding to the following general formula EMI46.1 whereinR. represents chloro , bromo or iodo C1 C4 alkyl R1 represents hydrogen, C1 C4 alkyl, C2 C4 alkenyl or phenyl R2 represents hydrogen or C1 C4 alkyl R3 represent hydrogen or C1 C4 alkyl and R4 represents hydrogen or nitrophenyl provided that one of R3 and R4 represents hydrogen characterised in that a it comprises reacting an appropriate haloalkylcarbonyl chloride with 5 methyl 5 amino 1,3 dioxane or b it comprises reacting an appropriate dialkoxy compound with an appropriate dihydroxyalkyl haloacetamide 2. . A process for the production of a composition characterised in that it comprises mixing a compound produced by a process as claimed in claim 1 with an inert diluent or carrier and or adjuvant. 3. A process for the production of a composition characterised in that it comprises mixing a non phytotoxic antidotably effective amount of a compound produced by a process as claimed in claim 1 with a herbicidally effective amount of a thiocarbamate corresponding to the following general formula EMI46.2 wherein P5 represents C1 C6 alkyl R6 represente C1 C6 alkyl or cyclohexyl orR5 and R6 together represent C4 C10 alkylene and P7 represents C1 C6 alkyl, C2 C6 alkenyl or benzyl, all of which may optionally be chloro , bromo or iodo substituted or a herbicidally effective amount of an acetanilide corresponding to the following general formula EMI47.1 wherein R8 represents hydrogen or C1 C6 alkyl R9 represents C1 C6 alkyl, C1 C8 alkoxy or carbethoxy C1 C4 alkyl andR10 represents hydrogen or C1 C6 alkyl. 4. A method of establishing herbicidal selectivity characterized in that it comprises applying to a locus where the said selectivity is desired a compound produced by a process as claimed in claim 1 or a composition produced by a process as claimed in claim 2 or claim 3.

## Description
Herbicide arltidotec., production, use and compositions thereof This invention relates to herbicide antidotes, production, use and compositions thereof more particularly,.it relates to certain haloalkylcarbonylamino 1,3 dioxanes which are useful as herbicide antidotes. An herbicide is a compound which controls or modifies plant growth, e.g., killing, retarding, defoliating, desiccating, regulating, stunting, tillering, stimulating, and dwarfing. The term plant refers to all physical parts of a plant, including seeds, seedlings, saplings, roots, tubers, stems, stalks, foliage, and fruits. plant growth includes all phases of development from seed germination to natural or induced cessation of life. Herbicides are generally used to control or eradicate weed pests. They have gained a high degree of commercial success because it has been shown that such control can increase crop yield and reduce harvesting costs. The most popular methods of herbicide application include pre plant incorporation into the soil infurrow application to seeds and surrounding soil preemergence surface treatment of seeded soil, and postemergence treatment of the plant and soil. A manufacturer of an herbicide generally recommends a range of application rates and concentrations calculated to maximize weed control. The range of rates varies from approximately 0.01 to 50 pounds per acre 0.0112 to 56 kilograms per hectare k ha , and is usually in the range of from 0.1 to 25 pounds per acre 0.112 to 28 kXha . The term herbicidally effective amount describes an amount of an heerbicide compound which controls or modifies plant growth. The actual amount used depends upon several considerations, including particular weed susceptibility and overall cost limitations. The most important factor influencing the usefulness of a given herbicide is its selectivity towards crops. In some cases, a beneficial crop is susceptible to the effects of the herbicide. In addition, certain herbicidal compounds are phytotoxic to some weed species but not to others. To be effective, an herbicide must cause minimal damage preferably no damage to the beneficial crop while maximinizing damage to weed species which plague that crop. To preserve the beneficial aspects of herbicide use and to minimize crop damage, many herbicide antidotes have been prepared.These antidotes reduce or eliminate damage to the crop without substantially impairing the damaging effect of the herbicide on weed species.See U.S. Patent Nos. 4,021,224 and 4,021,229 and Belgian Patent No.846,894. The precise mechanism by which an antidote reduces herbicidal crop injury has not been established. An antidote compound may be a remedy, interferent, protectant, or antagonist. As used herein, anti dote describes a compound which has the effect of establishing herbicide selectivity, i.e., continued herbicidal phytotoxicity to weed species and reduced or non phytotoxicity to cultivated crop species.The term antidotally effective amount describes an amount of an antidote compound which counteracts a phytotoxic response of a beneficial crop to an herbicide. Thiocarbamate and acetanilide herbicides are particularly effective in the control of grassy tFe weeds which interfere with the cultivation of a wide variety cf crops, e.g., barley, corn, cotton, lentils, plants, peas, potatoes, soybeans, spinach, tobacco and tomatoes. Frequently the effective use of these herbicides requires the addition of an antidote compound. Description of the Invention It has now been discovered that certain haloaLkylcarbonyl amino l,5dioxane compounds are effective antidotes for the protection cf a variety of crops from thiocarbamate and acetanilide herbicide injuries.Such compounds have the following formula EMI3.1 in which R is haloalkyl wherein halo is chlorine, bromine or iodine and the alkyl group has 1 4 carbon atoms, inclusive R1 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen lower alkyl having 1 4 carbon atoms, inclusive alkenyl having 2 4 carbon atoms, inclusive and phenyl R2 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and lower alkyl having 1 4 carbon atoms, inclusive R3 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and lower alkyl having 1 4 carbon atoms, inclusive R4 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and a nitrophenyl group and either R3 is hydrogen or R4 is hydrogen. This invention also embodies a t vo part herbicidal system comprised of a an herbicidally effective amount of a thiocarbamate com pound of the formulaEMI3.2 in which P5 is aLcJv having 1 6 carbon atoms, inclusive P6 is selected from the group consisting of alkyl having 1 6 carbon atoms, inclusive and cyclohexyl or R5 and R6 form indistinguishable parts of a single alkylene ring having 4 10 carbon atoms, inclusive and R7 is selected from the group consisting of alkyl having 1 6 carbon atoms, inclusive haloakkyl wherein halo is selected from the group consisting of chlorine, bromine and iodine and alkyl has 1 6 carbon atoms, inclusive alkenyl having 2 6 carbon atoms, inclusive halo alkenyl wherein halo is selected fran the group consisting of chlorine, bromine and iodine and alkenyl has 2 6 carbon atoms, inclusive benzyl and halo substituted benzyl, wherein halo is selected from the group consisting of chlorine, bromine and iodine and b a non phytotoxic antidotally effective amount of a compound of the formulaEMI4.1 in which R is selected from the group consisting of haloaLkyl wherein halo is chlorine, bromine or iodine and the alkyl group has 1 4 carbon atoms, inclusive FL1 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen lower alkyl having 1 4 carbon atoms, inclusive alkenyl having 2 4 carbon atoms, inclusive and phenyl R2 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and lower alkyl having 1 4 carbon atoms, inclusive is is selected from the group consisting hydrogen and lower alkyl having 1 4 carbon atoms, inclusive R4 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and a nitrophetyl group and either R3 is hydrogen or R4 s hydrogen. Ey way of exemplification, the active thiocarbamate herbicides employed in the invention na. include the following S ethyl di propyl thiocarbamate, S ethyl diisc.butyl thiocarbamate, S propyl dipropyl thiocarbamate, S propyl butylethylthiocarbamate, S 2,3,3 tri chlo roally 1 diisopropyl thiocarbamate, S ethyl N ethyl N cyclohexyl thiocarbamate, S ethyl hexahyd ro Ln azepine l carbothioate, isopropyl1 hexahydro 1, 4 azepine 1 carbothioate, S benzyl N, N disec butylthiolcarbamate, S 4 chlorobenzyl N, diethyl thiolcarbamate and combinations thereof. This invention also embodies a two part herbicidal system comprised of a an herbicidally effective amount of an acetanilide ccmpound of the formulaEMI5.1 in which R8 and R10 are independently seleCted from the group consisting of hydrogen and alkyl having 1 6 carbon atoms, inclusive and Rg is selected from the group consisting of alkyl having 1 6 carbon atoms, inclusive alkoxy having 1 8 carbon atoms, inclusive and carbethoxyalkyl wherein the alkyl group has 1 4 carbon atoms, inclusive and b a non phytotoxic antidotally effective amount of a compound of the formulaEMI5.2 in which R is haloalkyl wherein halo is chlorine, bromine or iodine and the alkyl group has 1 4 carbon atoms, inclusive R1 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen lower alkyl having 1 4 carbon atoms, inclusive alkenyl having 2 4 carbon atoms, inclusive and phenyl R2 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and lower alkyl having 1 4 carbon atoms, inclusive R3 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and lower alkyl having 1 4 carbon atoms, inclusive R4 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and a nitrophenyl group and either R3 is hydrogen or R4 is hydrogen. By way of exem,plification, the active acetanilide compounds employed in the invention may include 2 chloro 2 , 6 diethyl N methoxymethyl acetanilide 2 chloro 2 methyl 6 ethyl N methoxypropyl 2 acetanilide 2 chloro 2 , 6 dimethyl N methoxyethyl acetanilide 2 chloro 2 methyl 6 ethyl N ethoxymethyl acetanilide 2 chloro N isopropyl acetanilide 2 chloro 2 ,6 diethyl N n butoxymethyl acetanilide and 2 chloro N carbethoxymethyl 2 ,6 diethyl acetanilide. This invention also includes the method of establishing herbicidal selectivity which comprises applying to the locus where protection is desired an antidotally effective amount of a compound of the formulaEMI6.1 in which R Is halcaLkyl wherein halo is chlorine, bromine or iodine and the alkyl group has 1 4 carbon atoms, inclusive R1 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen lower alkyl having 1 4 carbon atoms, inclusive alkenyl having 2 4 carbon atoms, inclusive and phenyl R2 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and lower alkyl having 1 4 carbon atoms, inclusive R3 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and lower alkyl having 1 4 carbon atoms, inclusive R4 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and a nitrophenyl group and either F3 is hydrogen or R4 i hydrogen. The locus where selectivity is desired may include soil, seeds, seedlings and vegetation. Preparation The thiocarbamates of the present composition are either corn mercially available or can be prepared by the procedures described inUnited States Patent Nos. 2,913,327, 2,983,747, 3,133,947, 3,185,720 and 3,198,786. The acetanilides of the present composition are either com mercially available or can be prepared the procedures described inU.S. Patent Nos. 2,863,752 3,442,945 3,780,090 3,937,730 3,952,056 and 4,070,179. The haloalkylcarbonylamino 1,3 dioxanes of this invention can be prepared according to the following general procedures, depending upon the starting materials. In a first procedure, an appropriate haloalkylcarbonyl chlor ide is reacted with 5 methyl 5 amino 1,3 dioxane in a basic solution.The reaction is carried out at temperatures below 35C. The reaction mixture may be stripped and the product recrystallized in ethanol water. structure may be confirmed by nuclear magnetic resonance NMR spectroscopy. In an alternate procedure, an appropriate dialkoxy compound is reacted with an appropriate dihydroxyalkyl haloacetamide in an acidic solution. The reaction is carried out at elevated temperatures.Distillate is collected at 80 C. The distillate may be cooled and washed with sodium carbonate and water. The product may be obtained by removing the solvent in vacuum. Structure may be confirmed by NMR spectroscopy. The following examples illustrate the preparation of specific compounds according to these general methods. Compound numbers cor respond to those in Tables I, IV and V . Compound No. 1 Preparation of 5 methyl 5 2 ,3 dibromoproprionyl amino 1,3 dioxane Five and nine tenths grams g 0.05 mole of 5 methyl 5amino 1,3 dioxane, 3.2 g 0.04 mole of 50 sodium hydroxide, 8 milliliters ml of water and 55 ml of methylene chloride were combined in a reaction flask. The mixture was cooled to 10 C. Ten g 0.04 mole of 2,3 dibromopropionyl chloride were added dropwise. The reaction mixture was stirred for 2 hours and then vacuum stripped. The product was recrystallized in ethanol water. Yield was 8.7 g of 5 methyl 5 2 ,3 dibromopropionyl amino l,5 dioxane. m.p. 15 119 C. Structure was confirmed by NMR spectroscopy. EXAMPLE II Compound No. 4 Prepration of 5 2 bromo 3 chloropropionyl amino 5 ethyl 1,3 dioxene Five and two tenths g 0.04 mole of 5 ethyl 5 amino 1,3 di oxane, 3.2 g 0.04 mole of 5 sodium hydroxide, 10 ml of water, and 90 ml of methylene chloride were combined in a reaction flask. The mixture was cooled to below 35 C. Fight and two tenths g 0.04 mole of 2 bromo 3chloropropionyl chloride were added dropwise. The mixture was stirred for 1 2 hour, filtered, dried over magnesium sulfate, and vacuum stripped. Yield was 10.8 g of 5 2 bromo 3 chloropropionyl amino 5 ethyl 1,3 dioxane. m.p. 95 109 C. Structure was confirmed by NMR. EXAMPLE III Compound No. 10 Preparation of 5 chloroacetylamino 5 ethyl 1,3 dioxane Five and two tenths g 0.04 mole of 5 ethyl 5 smino l, 3di oxane, 3.2 g 0.04 mole of 50 sodium hydroxide, 10 ml of water, and 90 ml of methylene chloride were combined in a reaction flask. The mixture was cooled to below 35 C. Four and one half g of chloroacetylchloride were added droprise. The reacticn mixture was stirred for one half hour. washed with water and dried over magnesium sulfate. The solvent was vacuum stripped. Yield was 5.8 g of 5 chloroacetylamino 5 ethyl l,Sdioxane. m.p. 89 95 C. Structure was confirmed by NMR. EXAMPLE IV Compound No. 10 Preparation of 2 vinfJl n methyl , dicKloroacetylamino 1,3 dioxane This example illustrates use of the alternate general procedure. Six and one half grams 0.03 mole of 2,2 dimethoxyethyl dichloroacetamide, 3.9 g 0.03 mole of acrolein diethylacetal, 50 ml of acetonitrile and 0.2 g of ammonium chloride were combined in a reaction flask. The reaction mixture was stirred and refluxed through an attached packed column and variable take off condenser. Distillate was removed to a head temperature of 78 C. The reaction mixture was cooled to 40 C and 0.1 g of crushed ammonium chloride was added. The mixture was heated to reflux and distillate was collected between 73 and 81 C. An additional 0.1 g of ammonium chloride was added and the temperature rose to 83 C. Heating was stopped and the hot reaction mixture was poured over ice and extracted twice with 75 ml of dichloromethane. The extracts were combined and washed with 100 ml of water. After drying, the solvent was removed in vacuo to yield 5.0 g of 2 vinyl 5 methyl 5 dichloroacetal amino l,3 dioxane, an oil. n33 1.4980. Structure was confirmed by Nt1R spectroscopy and gas chromatography. EXAMPLE V Compound No. 21 Preparation of 2,2 dimethyl 4 p nitrophenyl 5 dichlero 1,3 dioxane This example demonstrates use of the alternate general procedure. Six grams 0.019 mole of chloroamphenicol, 2.3 g 0.022 mole of acetone dimethylacetal, 0.2 g cf napthalene sulfonic acid and 60 ml of ethylene dichloride were combined in a reaction flask.The reaction mixture was stirred and refluxed through an attached packed column and variable take off condenser. Distillate was removed to a head temperature of 80 C The distlllate was cooled and washed with water, twice with sodium carbonate and a second time with water. The mixture was dried and stripped. Yield was 6.0 g of 2,2 dimethiyl 4 p nitrophenyl 5 di chloro 1,3 dioxane. m.p. 140 143 C. Structure was confirmed my N.R. TABLE IHALOALKYLCARBONYLAMINO 1,3 DIOXANES EMI11.1 EMI11.2 Cmpd. SEP Physical tb No. SEP R SEP R1 SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP R4 SEP Chemical SEP Name SEP Constant tb 1 SEP CH2 CH SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 5 methyl 5 2 ,3 dibromopropionyl SEP m.p. SEP SEP 115 119 C tb SEP SEP SEP amino 1,3 dioxane tb SEP Br SEP Br tb 2 SEP CH2 CH SEP CH3 SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 5 2,3 dibromopropionyl amino 2,5 SEP m.p. SEP SEP 124 128 C tb SEP SEP SEP dimethyl 1,3 dioxane tb SEP Br SEP Br tb 3 SEP CH2 CH SEP H SEP H SEP C2H5 SEP H SEP 5 2,3 dibromopropionyl amino 5 ethyl SEP m.p. SEP SEP 100 107 C tb SEP SEP SEP 1,3 dioxane tb SEP Br SEP Br tb 4 SEP CH2 CH SEP H SEP H SEP C2H5 SEP H SEP 5 2 bromo 3 chloropropionyl amino SEP m.p. SEP SEP 95 109 C tb SEP Cl SEP Br SEP 5 ethyl 1,3 dioxane tb 5 SEP Cl2CH SEP CH3 SEP C2H5 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 2 ethyl 2,5 dmethyl 5 dichloroacetyl SEP m.p. SEP SEP 84 87 C tb SEP amino 1,3 dioxane tb 6 SEP ClCH2 SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 5 chloroacetylamino 5 methyl 1,3 dioxane SEP m.p. SEP SEP 116 120 C tb 7 SEP Cl2CH SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 5 dichloroacetylamino 5 methyl 1,3 SEP m.p. SEP SEP 127 C tb SEP dioxane tb 8 SEP ClCH2 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 5 chloroacetylamino 2,5 dimethyl 1,3 SEP m.p. SEP SEP 94 97 C tb SEP dioxane tb 9 SEP Cl2CH SEP CH3 SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 5 dichloroacetylamino 2,5 dimethyl 1,3 SEP m.p. SEP SEP 104 106 C tb SEP dioxane tb 10 SEP ClCH2 SEP H SEP H SEP C2H5 SEP H SEP 5 chloroacetylamino 5 ethyl 1,3 dioxane SEP m.p. SEP SEP 89 94 C tb TABLE I continued EMI12.1 Cmpd. SEP Physical tb No. SEP R SEP R1 SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP R4 SEP Chemical SEP Name SEP Constant tb 11 SEP Cl2CH SEP H SEP H SEP C2H5 SEP H SEP 5 dichloroacetylamino 5 ethyl 1,3 SEP m.p. SEP SEP 94 96.5 C tb SEP dioxane tb 12 SEP ClCH2 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 5 methyl 5 chloroacetylamino 2,2 di SEP nD30 SEP SEP 1.4785 tb SEP methyl 1,3 dioxane tb 13 SEP Cl2CH SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 2,2,5 trimethyl 5 dichloroacetylamino SEP m.p. SEP SEP 101 104 C tb SEP 1,3 dioxane tb 14 SEP ClCH2 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP C2H5 SEP H SEP 2,2 dimethyl 5 ethyl 5 chloroacetylamino SEP m.p. SEP SEP 67 70 C tb SEP 1,3 dioxane tb 15 SEP Cl2CH SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP C2H5 SEP H SEP 2,2 dimethyl 5 ethyl 5 dichloroacetylamino SEP m.p. SEP SEP 90 93 C tb SEP 1,3 dioxane tb 16 SEP ClCH2 SEP C2H5 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 2,5 dimethyl 2 ethyl 5 chloroacetylamino SEP m.p. SEP SEP 62 69 C tb SEP 1,3 dioxane tb 17 SEP ClCH2 SEP CH CH2 SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 2 allyl 5 methyl 5 chloroacetylamino 1,3 SEP m.p. SEP SEP 78 83 C tb SEP 1,3 dioxane tb 18 SEP Cl2CH SEP CH CH2 SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 2 allyl 5 methyl 5 dichloroacetylamino SEP nD30 SEP SEP 1.4980 tb SEP 1,3 dioxne tb 19 SEP ClCH2 SEP SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 2 phenyl 5 methyl 5 chloroacetylamino 1,3 SEP softened SEP above SEP 95 C tb SEP dioxane tb 20 SEP Cl2CH SEP SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 2 phenyl 5 methyl 5 dichloroacetylamino SEP m.p. SEP SEP 145 148 C tb SEP 1,3 dioxane tb 21 SEP Cl2CH SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP SEP 2,2 dimethyl 4 p nitrophenyl 5 dichloro SEP m.p. SEP SEP 140 143 C tb SEP NO2 SEP acetylamino 1,3 dioxane tb 22 SEP Cl2CH SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP SEP 2 methyl 4 p nitrophenyl 5 dichloro SEP glass tb SEP NO2 SEP acetylamino 1,3 dioxane tb Testing Stock solutions of the herbicides were prepared by diluting the requisite amount of each herbicide in water. Examples of solution compositions and application rates are summarized in Table II. TABLE II Herbicide Stock Solutions Composition Herbicide Water ApplicationHerbicide Name mg ml ml flat lb acre VEEUIS 6ES propyl N,N 533 400 5 1.25 diprepyl thio 3000 500 5 6.00 carbamate EPTAM 6E 2225 350 5 6.00S ethyl N, F dipropyl thiocarbamate The weight is measured in terms of mg of formulated herbicide. The formulations used contain about 72 active herbicide compound. The flats measure 5.95 inches by 9.5 inches. Approximately four 4 mgiflat is s equal to one 1 lb acre. The herbicide was either incorporated into the soil prior to planting or applied to the soil after planting and prior to emergence of the plants. In some cases of pre plant incorporation, the herbicide was incorporated into the soil alone in preparation for in furrow application of the antidote in others the herbicide solution was tank mixed with the antidote solution prior to incorporation. Stock solutions of each antidote compound were prepared at the desired concentraticns by diluting the requisite amount of each antidote in acetone. Examples of solution compositions, rates and application methods are slemmarized in Table III. Antidote Stock Solutions Antidote Haloalkylcarbonylamino 1,3 dioxanes Composition Application Antidote mg Acetone ml ml flat lb acre Method 95 15 1.50 5.00 IF 60 15 5.00 5.00 PPI IF In furrow surface application of antidote. PPI Pre plant incorporation of tank mixed solution of herbicide and antidote The antidote solutions were applied to the soil either by in furrow surface application or by pre plant incorporation. In all cases cf pre plant incorporaticn, the antidote was tank mixed with the herbicide prior to incorporation into the soil. For in furrow application, a one pint 473 cubic centimeter cc sample of soil containing the previously incorporated herbicide was removed and retained from each planting flat. After leveling and furrowing the soil, seeds of the crop or weed species were planted 1 2 inch deep 1.27 centimeter . Each flat was divided in half by a wooden barrier. A stock solution of the antidote was atomized directly onto the exposed seeds and soil in the open furrow on one side of the barrier. The seeds in the entire flat were then covered with the previ ously removed soil. The antidotally untreated sections of flats were compared for sbserr ed differences which would indicate lateral movement of the antidote through the soil. Control flats contained crops treated with herbicide only.All flats were placed cn greenhouse benches where temperature was maintained between 70 and 900F 21.1 to 32.20C . The flats were watered by sprinkling as needed to assure good plant growth. All of the soil used in the. tests described herein was loamy sand soil treated with 50 parts per million ppm each of a commerci ally available fungicide, J trichloromethyl thio 4 cyclohexene l, 2 dicarboximide, and 18 18 18 fertilizer, which contains 18 by weight equivalent each of nitrogen, phosphorus pentoxide, and potassium oxide. Injury ratings were taken four weeks after application of the antidote. The effectiveness of the antidote was determined by visual comparison of crop injury in the test flats to that in the control flats. The treated crops initially screened for diminution of herbicidal injury were milo, wheat, rice, barley, corn and soybeans. Compounds which showed substantial activity were tested further. The herbicides and the most active antidote compositions were then screened on weed species. The weed species tested included watergrass Echinochloa crusgalli , foxtail Setaria viridis , wild oat Avena fatua , shattercane Sorghum bicolor , johnsongrass Sorghum halepense and mustard Brasstica juncea . KEY TO TABLES IV AMD V Compound numbers in these tables correspond to the numbers and their chemical descripticn in Table I. Compounds omitted in TableV were not tested cn weed species. Herbicides VERNAM S propyl N,N dipropyl thioarbamate EPTAM S ethyl N,N dipropyl thiocarbamate RONEET S ethyl N ethyl N cyclohexyl thiocarbamate SUTAN S ethyl N,N diisobutyl thiocarbamate LASSO 2 chloro 2 ,6 diethyl N methoxymethyl acetanilide TERIDOX 2 chloro 2 , dimethyl N methoxymethyl acetanilide TREFLAN alpha , alpha , alpha trifluoro 2,6 dinitro N,N dipropyl p toluidine ATRAZINE 2 chloro 4 ethylamino 6 isopropylamino S triazine Application MethodsPES Surface application of herbicide to soil after planting of seeds and prior to emergence of plants.IF In furrow surface application of antidote soil previously treated with herbicide only . PPI Pre plant incorporation of herbicide or antidote. If both herbIcide and antidote were preplant incorporated, a tank .mixed solution was used. Tank mixed solution of herbicide and antidote. If no antidote was applied, the word none appears in theAntidote Fate column. The results shown on this line are the percent injuries sustained by each of the crops when treated with the herbicide only at the rate specified. All rates shown, for both herbicide and antidote, are in pounds per acre. Injury Ratings The injury to the crop Table IV or weeds Table V is shown as a percentage of damage done to the plants as compared to an evaluation of the undamaged state of the plants. The damage done to the plants is a function of the number of plants injured and the extent of injury to each plant. This rating is made four 4 weeks after application of the herbicide alone or of the herbicide in combination with the antidote. An asterisk in Table Di indicates that the antidote compound is active in reducing herbicidal injury to the crop.Parentheses around a number indicate that the test has been run more than once and the results are inconclusive. Table V shows that the antidote compounds tested have no effect on weeds, i.e., herbicidal injury to the weeds is sustained even in the presence of an antidote compound. TABLE IV Antidotal EffectivenessCmpd. Herbicide Antidote Antidote Milo Wheat Cotton Rice Barley Corn SoybeanNo. Herbicide Rate Method Rate Method Inj Inj Inj Inj Inj Inj Inj 1 VERNAM 1.0 PPI none 100 77 50 87 83 VERNAM 1.0 PPI 5.0 IF 100 60 50 87 20 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 90 100 VERNAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 IF 20 80 VERNAM 1.0 PPI none 60 VERNAM 1.0 PPI 1.0 IF 30 VERNAM 1.0 PPI 5.0 IF 10 VERNAM 1.0 PPI none 100 VERNAM 1.0 PPI 1.0 IF 70 VERNAM 1.0 PPI 5.0 IF 60 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 60 VERNAM 6.0 PPI TM 1.0 PPI TM 60 VERNAM 6.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 60 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 60 VERNAM 6.0 PPI TM 1.5 PPI TM 60 VERNAM 6.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 60 EPTAM 6.0 PPI none 80 EPTAM 6.0 PPI 0.5 PPI 70 EPTAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 PPI 50 LASSO 3.0 PES none 98 70 99 LASSO 3.0 PES 5.0 IF 98 70 95 LASSO 3.0 PES none 90 55 LASSO 3.0 PES TM 5.0 PES TM 90 40 TABLE IV continued Cmpd. Herbicide Antidote Antidote Milo Wheat Cotton Rice Barley Corn SoybeanNo. Herbicide Rate Method Rate Method Inj Inj Inj Inj Inj Inj Inj 1 LASSO 4.0 PES none 80 LASSO 4.0 PES TM 5.0 PES TM 20 TREFLAN 1.0 PPI none 100 98 100 85 TREFLAN 1.0 PPI 5.0 IF 100 98 100 85 2 VERNAM 1.0 PPI none 100 75 70 95 70 VERNAM 1.0 PPI 5.0 IF 80 60 70 95 50 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 80 VERNAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 IF 80 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 90 VERNAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 IF 50 VERNAM 1.25 PPI none 70 VERNAM 1.25 PPI 1.0 IF 40 VERNAM 1.25 PPI 5.0 IF 30 VERNAM 1.25 PPI none 70 VERNAM 1.25 PPI TM 1.0 PPI TM 50 VERNAM 1.25 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 35 LASSO 3.5 PES none 95 70 100 70 LASSO 3.5 PES 5.0 IF 60 70 100 50 TERIDOX 1.0 PES none 100 70 80 100 TERIDOX 1.0 PES 5.0 IF 100 70 55 100 3 VERNAM 1.0 PPI none 95 70 70 95 50 VERNAM 1.0 PPI 5.0 IF 95 30 80 95 0 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 70 55 VERNAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 IF 30 40 TABLE IV continued Cmpd. Herbicide Antidote Antidote Milo Wheat Cotton Rice Barley Corn Soybean No. Herbicide Rate Method Rate Method Inj Inj Inj Inj Inj Inj Inj 3 VERNAM 1.25 PPI none 95 95 80 VERNAM 1.25 PPI 1.0 IF 95 95 60 VERNAM 1.25 PPI 5.0 IF 60 95 40 VERNAM 5.0 PPI none 40 VERNAM 5.0 PPI 1.0 IF 40 VERNAM 5.0 PPI 5.0 IF 30 EPTAM 6.0 PPI none 80 EPTAM 6.0 PPI 0.5 PPI 10 EPTAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 PPI 30 SUTAN 5.0 PPI none 35 SUTAN 5.0 PPI TM 1.0 PPI TM 35 SUTAN 5.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 20 LASSO 3.0 PES none 90 55 LASSO 3.0 PES TM 5.0 PES TM 80 35 LASSO 4.0 PPI none 80 LASSO 4.0 PPI 5.0 PES TM 20 4 VERNAM 1.25 PPI none 100 95 60 95 95 VERNAM 1.25 PPI 5.0 IF 40 60 60 95 20 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 85 60 VERNAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 IF 0 60 VERNAM 1.25 PPI none 95 VERNAM 1.25 PPI 1.0 IF 40 VERNAM 1.25 PPI 5.0 IF 20 TABLE IV continued Cmpd. Herbicide Antidote Antidote Milo Wheat Cotton Rice Barley Corn Soybean No. Herbicide Rate Method Rate Method Inj Inj Inj Inj Inj Inj Inj 4 VERNAM 1.25 PPI none 90 VERNAM 1.25 PPI TM 0.25 PPI TM 90 VERNAM 1.25 PPI TM 0.5 PPI TM 90 VERNAM 1.25 PPI TM 1.0 PPI TM 70 EPTAM 6.0 PPI none 80 EPTAM 6.0 PPI 0.5 PPI 0 EPTAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 PPI 0 RONEET 3.0 PPI none 90 RONEET 3.0 PPI 1.0 IF 60 RONEET 3.0 PPI 5.0 IF 90 LASSO 3.0 PES none 98 70 99 LASSO 3.0 PES 5.0 IF 85 55 99 LASSO 3.0 PES none 95 70 100 70 LASSO 3.0 PES 5.0 IF 10 20 100 15 TERIDOX 1.0 PES none 100 70 80 100 TERIDOX 1.0 PES 5.0 IF 90 35 35 0 ATRAZINE 1.0 PES none 100 70 100 ATRAZINE 1.0 PES 5.0 IF 100 70 100 ATRAZINE 0.25 PES none 100 ATRAZINE 0.25 PES 5.0 IF 100 TREFLAN 1.0 PPI none 100 98 100 85 TREFLAN 1.0 PPI 5.0 IF 100 90 100 85 5 VERNAM 1.25 PPI none 100 100 60 100 90 VERNAM 1.25 PPI 5.0 IF 75 90 50 90 70 TABLE IV continued Cmpd. Herbicide Antidote Antidote Milo Wheat Cotton Rice Barley Corn Soybean No.Herbicide Rate Method Rate Method Inj Inj Inj Inj Inj Inj Inj 5 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 95 60 VERNAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 IF 70 60 6 VERNAM 1.0 PPI none 100 77 50 87 83 VERNAM 1.0 PPI 5.0 IF 60o 60 50 87 60 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 90 60 VERNAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 IF 0 90 VERNAM 1.0 PPI none 100 VERNAM 1.0 PPI 1.0 IF 100 VERNAM 1.0 PPI 5.0 IF 100 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 60 VERNAM 6.0 PPI TM 1.0 PPI TM 45 VERNAM 6.0 PPI TM 2.0 PPI TM 50 VERNAM 6.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 60 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 60 VERNAM 6.0 PPI TM 1.0 PPI TM 60 VERNAM 6.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 60 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 60 VERNAM 6.0 PPI TM 1.0 PPI TM 0 VERNAM 6.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 60 EPTAM 6.0 PPI none 80 EPTAM 6.0 PPI 0.5 PPI 30 EPTAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 PPI 0 LASSO 3.0 PES none 98 70 99 LASSO 3.0 PES 5.0 IF 98 70 99 TABLE IV continued Cmpd.Herbicide Antidote Antidote Milo Wheat Cotton Rice Barley Corn Soybean No. Herbicide Rate Method Rate Method Inj Inj Inj Inj Inj Inj Inj 6 ATRAZINE 0.25 PES none 100 ATRAZINE 0.25 PES 5.0 IF 100 ATRAZINE 1.0 PES none 100 70 100 ATRAZINE 1.0 PES 5.0 IF 100 70 100 TREFLAN 1.0 PPI none 100 98 100 85 TREFLAN 1.0 PPI 5.0 IF 100 95 100 80 7 VERNAM 1.0 PPI none 100 77 50 87 83 VERNAM 1.0 PPI 5.0 IF 100 77 40 87 83 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 90 60 VERNAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 IF 40 90 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 60 VERNAM 6.0 PPI TM 1.0 PPI TM 60 VERNAM 6.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 75 8 VERNAM 1.0 PPI none 100 75 70 95 70 VERNAM 1.0 PPI 5.0 IF 30 75 70 95 20 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 80 VERNAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 IF 100 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 90 VERNAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 IF 0 VERNAM 1.25 PPI none 70 VERNAM 1.25 PPI 5.0 IF 70 VERNAM 1.25 PPI 5.0 IF 70 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 60 VERNAM 6.0 PPI TM 1.0 PPI TM 60 VERNAM 6.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 60 TABLE IV continued Cmpd. Herbicide Antidote Antidote Milo Wheat Cotton Rice Barley Corn Soybean No. Herbicide Rate Method Rate Method Inj Inj Inj Inj Inj Inj Inj 8 EPTAM 6.0 PPI none 80 EPTAM 6.0 PPI 0.5 PPI 30 EPTAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 PPI 0 RONEET 4.0 PPI none 60 RONEET 4.0 PPI 1.0 IF 60 RONEET 4.0 PPI 5.0 IF 20 LASSO 3.0 PES none 98 70 99 LASSO 3.0 PES 5.0 IF 98 70 99 LASSO 3.5 PES none 95 70 100 70 LASSO 3.5 PES 5.0 IF 95 60 100 70 TERIDOX 1.0 PES none 100 70 80 100 TERIDOX 1.0 PES 5.0 IF 100 70 80 100 ATRAZINE 0.25 PES none 100 ATRAZINE 0.25 PES 5.0 IF 100 ATRAZINE 1.0 PES none 100 70 100 ATRAZINE 1.0 PES 5.0 IF 100 70 100 TREFLAN 1.0 PPI none 100 98 100 98 TREFLAN 1.0 PPI 5.0 IF 100 98 100 98 9 VERNAM 1.0 PPI none 100 75 70 95 70 VERNAM 1.0 PPI 5.0 IF 90 75 70 50 60 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 80 VERNAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 IF 95 TABLE IV continued Cmpd. Herbicide Antidote Antidote Milo Wheat Cotton Rice Barley Corn Soybean No. Herbicide Rate Method Rate Method Inj Inj Inj Inj Inj Inj Inj 9 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 90 VERNAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 IF 0 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 60 VERNAM 6.0 PPI TM 1.0 PPI TM 60 VERNAM 6.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 60 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 60 VERNAM 6.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 80 EPTAM 6.0 PPI none 80 EPTAM 6.0 PPI 0.5 PPI 70 EPTAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 PPI 45 10 VERNAM 1.25 PPI none 80 80 70 95 70 VERNAM 1.25 PPI 5.0 IF 30 60 60 95 50 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 90 50 VERNAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 IF 0 30 VERNAM 5.0 PPI none 65 VERNAM 5.0 PPI 1.0 IF 50 VERNAM 5.0 PPI 5.0 IF 80 EPTAM 6.0 PPI none 90 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 0.05 PPI TM 90 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 0.5 PPI TM 90 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 35 EPTAM 6.0 PPI none 90 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 0.5 PPI TM 30 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 20 TABLE IV continued Cmpd. Herbicide Antidote Antidote Milo Wheat Cotton Rice Barley Corn Soybean No. Herbicide Rate Method Rate Method Inj Inj Inj Inj Inj Inj Inj 10 RONEET 4.0 PPI none 60 RONEET 4.0 PPI 1.0 IF 60 RONEET 4.0 PPI 5.0 IF 60 11 RONEET 1.25 PPI none 80 80 70 95 70 RONEET 1.25 PPI 5.0 IF 40 60 70 95 50 RONEET 6.0 PPI none 90 50 RONEET 6.0 PPI 5.0 IF 0 70 EPTAM 6.0 PPI none 90 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 0.05 PPI TM 90 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 0.5 PPI TM 90 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 80 EPTAM 6.0 PPI none 90 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 0.5 PPI TM 55 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 25 RONEET 4.0 PPI none 60 RONEET 4.0 PPI 60 RONEET 4.0 PPI 40 12 VERNAM 1.25 PPI none 100 95 60 100 90 VERNAM 1.25 PPI 5.0 IF 60 60 60 100 60 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 85 70 VERNAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 IF 0 70 EPTAM 6.0 PPI none 90 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 0.05 PPI TM 90 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 0.5 PPI TM 80 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 0 TABLE IV continued Cmpd. Herbicide Antidote Antidote Milo Wheat Cotton Rice Barley Corn Soybean No.Herbicide Rate Method Rate Method Inj Inj Inj Inj Inj Inj Inj 12 EPTAM 6.0 PPI none 90 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 0.5 PPI TM 40 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 10 EPTAM 6.0 PPI none 70 EPTAM 6.0 PPI 0.5 PPI 40 EPTAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 PPI 0 13 VERNAM 1.25 PPI none 100 90 60 95 85 VERNAM 1.25 PPI 5.0 IF 100 90 60 95 85 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 90 65 VERNAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 IF 65 70 14 VERNAM 1.25 PPI none 100 95 70 100 95 VERNAM 1.25 PPI 5.0 IF 100 95 55 100 95 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 90 65 VERNAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 IF 80 40 15 VERNAM 1.25 PPI none 100 95 70 100 95 VERNAM 1.25 PPI 5.0 IF 100 95 40 100 80 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 90 65 VERNAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 IF 80 65 VERNAM 1.25 PPI none 50 VERNAM 1.25 1.0 0.5 IF 50 VERNAM 1.25 PPI 5.0 IF 20 16 VERNAM 1.25 PPI none 100 95 70 100 95 VERNAM 1.25 PPI 5.0 IF 100 95 70 100 100 TABLE IV continued Cmpd. Herbicide Antidote Antidote Milo Wheat Cotton Rice Barley Corn Soybean No. Herbicide Rate Method Rate Method Inj Inj Inj Inj Inj Inj Inj 16 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 90 65 VERNAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 IF 30 50 EPTAM 5.0 PPI none 85 EPTAM 5.0 PPI TM 0.05 PPI TM 60 EPTAM 5.0 PPI TM 0.5 PPI TM 0 EPTAM 5.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 0 17 VERNAM 1.25 PPI none 100 100 60 100 90 VERNAM 1.25 PPI 5.0 IF 80 95 60 100 80 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 95 60 VERNAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 IF 85 60 18 VERNAM 1.25 PPI none 90 75 55 90 60 VERNAM 1.25 PPI 5.0 IF 80 60 55 50 45 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 90 60 VERNAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 IF 30 60 VERNAM 1.0 PPI none 98 VERNAM 1.0 PPI 1.0 IF 60 VERNAM 1.0 PPI 5.0 IF 20 VERNAM 1.25 PPI none 85 VERNAM 1.25 PPI 1.0 IF 85 VERNAM 1.25 PPI 5.0 IF 85 EPTAM 6.0 PPI none 90 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 0.05 PPI TM 90 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 0.5 PPI TM 80 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 0 EPTAM 6.0 PPI none 90 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 0.5 PPI TM 50 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 0 TABLE IV continued Cmpd. Herbicide Antidote Antidote Milo Wheat Cotton Rice Barley Corn Soybean No. Herbicide Rate Method Rate Method Inj Inj Inj Inj Inj Inj Inj 19 VERNAM 1.25 PPI none 100 100 60 100 90 VERNAM 1.25 PPI 5.0 IF 80 95 70 100 90 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 95 60 VERNAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 IF 60 40 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 55 VERNAM 6.0 PPI 1.0 IF 55 VERNAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 IF 45 20 VERNAM 1.25 PPI none 100 100 60 100 90 VERNAM 1.25 PPI 5.0 IF 100 100 60 95 90 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 95 60 VERNAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 IF 40 60 EPTAM 5.0 PPI none 85 EPTAM 5.0 PPI TM 0.05 PPI TM 85 EPTAM 5.0 PPI TM 0.5 PPI TM 35 EPTAM 5.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 15 EPTAM 6.0 PPI none 90 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 0.05 PPI TM 90 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 0.5 PPI TM 90 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 30 21 VERNAM 1.25 PPI none 80 75 60 85 65 VERNAM 1.25 PPI 5.0 IF 80 75 60 65 60 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 90 60 VERNAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 IF 60 60 TABLE IV continued Cmpd. Herbicide Antidote Antidote Milo Wheat Cotton Rice Barley Corn Soybean No.Herbicide Rate Method Rate Method Inj Inj Inj Inj Inj Inj Inj 21 VERNAM 1.25 PPI none 50 VERNAM 1.25 PPI 1.0 IF 50 VERNAM 1.25 PPI 5.0 IF 50 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 25 VERNAM 6.0 PPI 1.0 IF 10 VERNAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 IF 25 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 50 VERNAM 6.0 PPI TM 1.0 PPI TM 50 VERNAM 6.0 PPI TM 2.0 PPI TM 50 VERNAM 6.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 50 SUTAN 6.0 PPI none 40 SUTAN 6.0 PPI TM 1.0 PPI TM 40 SUTAN 6.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI.TM 40 22 VERNAM 1.25 PPI none 90 100 70 100 75 VERNAM 1.25 PPI 5.0 IF 60 100 70 100 75 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 90 40 VERNAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 IF 90 40 TABLE V Herbicidal EffectivenessCmpd. Herbicide Antidote Antidote Water Shatter Johnson No.Herbicide Rate Method Rate Method grass Foxtail Wild Oat cane Mustard grass 1 VERNAM 1.0 PPI none 70 95 VERNAM 1.0 PPI 1.0 IF 70 95 VERNAM 1.0 PPI 5.0 IF 70 95 VERNAM 1.0 PPI none 100 70 VERNAM 1.0 PPI 1.0 IF 100 70 VERNAM 1.0 PPI 5.0 IF 100 70 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 100 100 VERNAM 6.0 PPI TM 1.0 PPI TM 100 100 VERNAM 6.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 100 100 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 85 90 VERNAM 6.0 PPI TM 1.0 PPI TM 85 90 VERNAM 6.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 85 90 EPTAM 6.0 PPI none 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI 0.5 PPI 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 PPI 100 100 LASSO 3.0 PES none 99 LASSO 3.0 PES 5.0 IF 99 LASSO 3.0 PES none 100 100 LASSO 3.0 PES TM 5.0 PES TM 100 100 LASSO 4.0 PES none 100 100 LASSO 4.0 PES TM 5.0 PES TM 100 100 TABLE V continued Cmpd. Herbicide Antidote Antidote Water Shatter Johnson No.Herbicide Rate Method Rate Method grass Foxtail Wild Oat cane Mustard grass 2 VERNAM 1.25 PPI none 90 100 VERNAM 1.25 PPI 1.0 IF 90 100 VERNAM 1.25 PPI 5.0 IF 90 100 VERNAM 1.25 PPI none 85 100 VERNAM 1.25 PI TM 1.0 PPI TM 85 100 VERNAM 1.25 PI TM 5.0 PPI TM 85 100 LASSO 3.5 PPI none 100 LASSO 3.5 PPI 5.0 IF 100 TERIDOX 1.0 PPI none 100 TERIDOX 1.0 PPI 5.0 IF 100 3 VERNAM 1.25 PPI none 85 VERNAM 1.25 PPI 1.0 IF 85 VERNAM 1.25 PPI 5.0 IF 85 VERNAM 5.0 PPI none 100 100 VERNAM 5.0 PPI 1.0 IF 100 100 VERNAM 5.0 PPI 5.0 IF 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI none 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI 0.5 PPI 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 PPI 100 100 TABLE V continued Cmpd. Herbicide Antidote Antidote Water Shatter Johnson No.Herbicide Rate Method Rate Method grass Foxtail Wild Oat cane Mustard grass 3 SUTAN 5.0 PPI none 100 100 SUTAN 5.0 PPI TM 1.0 100 100 SUTAN 5.0 PPI TM 5.0 100 100 LASSO 3.0 PES none 100 100 LASSO 3.0 PES TM 5.0 100 100 LASSO 4.0 PES none 100 100 LASSO 4.0 PES TM 5.0 100 100 4 VERNAM 1.25 PPI none 100 70 VERNAM 1.25 PPI 1.0 100 70 VERNAM 1.25 PPI 5.0 100 70 VERNAM 1.25 PPI none 70 100 VERNAM 1.25 PPI TM 0.25 70 100 VERNAM 1.25 PPI TM 0.5 70 100 VERNAM 1.25 PPI TM 1.0 70 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI none 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI 0.5 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 100 100 RONEET 3.0 PPI none 95 100 RONEET 3.0 PPI 1.0 95 100 RONEET 3.0 PPI 5.0 95 100 TABLE V continued Cmpd. Herbicide Antidote Antidote Water Shatter Johnson No. Herbicide Rate Method Rate Method grass Foxtail Wild Oat cane Mustard grass 4 LASSO 3.0 PES none 99 LASSO 3.0 PES 5.0 IF 99 LASSO 3.5 PES none 100 LASSO 3.5 PES 5.0 IF 100 TERIDOX 1.0 PES none 100 TERIDOX 1.0 PES 5.0 IF 100 ATRAZINE 0.25 PES none 95 100 ATRAZINE 0.25 PES 5.0 IF 95 100 6 VERNAM 1.0 PPI none 70 100 VERNAM 1.0 PPI 1.0 IF 70 100 VERNAM 1.0 PPI 5.0 IF 70 100 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 100 90 VERNAM 6.0 PPI TM 1.0 PPI TM 100 90 VERNAM 6.0 PPI TM 2.0 PPI TM 100 90 VERNAM 6.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 100 90 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 100 100 VERNAM 6.0 PPI TM 1.0 PPI TM 100 100 VERNAM 6.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 100 100 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 85 90 VERNAM 6.0 PPI TM 1.0 PPI TM 85 90 VERNAM 6.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 85 90 TABLE V continued Cmpd. Herbicide Antidote Antidote Water Shatter Johnson No.Herbicide Rate Method Rate Method grass Foxtail Wild Oat cane Mustard grass 6 EPTAM 6.0 PPI none 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI 0.5 PPI 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 PPI 100 100 LASSO 3.0 PES none 99 LASSO 3.0 PES 5.0 IF 99 ATRAZINE 0.25 PES none 95 ATRAZINE 0.25 PES 5.0 IF 95 7 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 85 90 VERNAM 6.0 PPI TM 1.0 PPI TM 85 90 VERNAM 6.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 85 90 8 VERNAM 1.25 PPI none 90 100 VERNAM 1.25 PPI 1.0 IF 90 100 VERNAM 1.25 PPI 5.0 IF 90 100 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 100 100 VERNAM 6.0 PPI TM 0.5 PPI TM 100 100 VERNAM 6.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI none 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI 0.5 PPI 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 PPI 100 100 RONEET 4.0 PPI none 80 100 RONEET 4.0 PPI 1.0 IF 80 100 RONEET 4.0 PPI 5.0 IF 80 100 TABLE V continued Cmpd. Herbicide Antidote Antidote Water Shatter Johnson No.Herbicide Rate Method Rate Method grass Foxtail Wild Oat cane Mustard grass 8 LASSO 3.0 PES none 99 LASSO 3.0 PES 5.0 IF 99 LASSO 3.5 PES none 100 LASSO 3.5 PES 5.0 IF 100 TERIDOX 1.0 PES none 100 TERIDOX 1.0 PES 5.0 IF 100 ATRAZINE 0.25 PES none 95 100 ATRAZINE 0.25 PES 5.0 IF 95 100 9 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 100 100 VERNAM 6.0 PPI TM 1.0 PPI TM 100 100 VERNAM 6.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 100 100 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 85 90 VERNAM 6.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 85 90 EPTAM 6.0 PPI none 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI 0.5 PPI 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 PPI 100 100 10 VERNAM 5.0 PPI none 100 95 VERNAM 5.0 PPI 1.0 IF 100 95 VERNAM 5.0 PPI 5.0 IF 100 95 TABLE V continued Cmpd. Herbicide Antidote Antidote Water Shatter Johnson No.Herbicide Rate Method Rate Method grass Foxtail Wild Oat cane Mustard grass 10 EPTAM 6.0 PPI none 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 0.05 PPI TM 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 0.5 PPI TM 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI none 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 0.5 PPI TM 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 100 100 RONEET 4.0 PPI none 80 100 RONEET 4.0 PPI 1.0 IF 80 100 RONEET 4.0 PPI 5.0 IF 80 100 11 EPTAM 6.0 PPI none 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 0.05 PPI TM 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 0.5 PPI TM 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI none 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 0.5 PPI TM 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 100 100 RONEET 4.0 PPI none 80 100 RONEET 4.0 PPI 80 100 RONEET 4.0 PPI 80 100 12 EPTAM 6.0 PPI none 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 0.05 PPI TM 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 0.5 PPI TM 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 100 100 TABLE V continued Cmpd. Herbicide Antidote Antidote Water Shatter Johnson No. Herbicide Rate Method Rate Method grass Foxtail Wild Oat cane Mustard grass 12 EPTAM 6.0 PPI none 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 0.5 PPI TM 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI none 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI 0.5 PPI 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 PPI 100 100 15 VERNAM 1.25 PPI none 90 70 VERNAM 1.25 PPI 1.0 IF 90 70 VERNAM 1.25 PPI 5.0 IF 90 70 16 EPTAM 5.0 PPI none 98 98 EPTAM 5.0 PPI TM 0.05 PPI TM 98 98 EPTAM 5.0 PPI TM 0.5 PPI TM 98 98 EPTAM 5.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 98 98 18 VERNAM 6.0 PPI none 97 85 VERNAM 6.0 PPI 1.0 IF 97 85 VERNAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 IF 97 85 VERNAM 1.25 PPI none 90 85 VERNAM 1.25 PPI 1.0 IF 90 85 VERNAM 1.25 PPI 5.0 IF 90 85 EPTAM 6.0 PPI none 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 0.05 PPI TM 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 0.5 PPI TM 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 100 100 TABLE V continued Cmpd. Herbicide Antidote Antidote Water Shatter Johnson No. Herbicide Rate Method Rate Method grass Foxtail Wild Oat cane Mustard grass 18 EPTAM 6.0 PPI none 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 0.5 PPI TM 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 100 100 19 EPTAM 6.0 PPI none 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI 1.0 IF 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 IF 100 100 20 EPTAM 5.0 PPI none 98 98 EPTAM 5.0 PPI TM 0.5 PPI TM 98 98 EPTAM 5.0 PPI TM 0.5 PPI TM 98 98 EPTAM 5.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 98 98 EPTAM 6.0 PPI none 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 0.05 PPI TM 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 0.5 PPI TM 100 100 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 100 100 21 EPTAM 1.25 PPI none 95 80 EPTAM 1.25 PPI 1.0 IF 95 80 EPTAM 1.25 PPI 5.0 IF 95 80 EPTAM 6.0 PPI none 95 95 EPTAM 6.0 PPI 1.0 IF 95 95 EPTAM 6.0 PPI 5.0 IF 95 95 EPTAM 6.0 PPI none 100 97 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 1.0 PPI TM 100 97 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 2.0 PPI TM 100 97 EPTAM 6.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI TM 100 97 TABLE V continued Cmpd. Herbicide Antidote Antidote Water Shatter Johnson No. Herbicide Rate Method Rate Method grass Foxtail Wild Oat cane Mustard grass 21 SUTAN 6.0 PPI none 95 99 SUTAN 6.0 PPI TM 1.0 PPI TM 95 99 SUTAN 6.0 PPI TM 5.0 PPI.TM 95 99 Test Results The compounds cf this invention show good antidotal activity for a variety of crops. The composition of thiocarbamate herbicide and antidote ccmpound was particularly effective for the reduction of herbicidal injury to corn crops. Use of the antidote compounds did not result in a reduction of herbicidal injury to weeds.Formulations A formulation is the incorporation of a formulant in a form which is directly usable on crops and weeds As defined herein, a formulant is the material which is to be formulated. The formulant may be either an antidote compound alone or an herbicide and antidote composition. The purpose of the formulation is to apply the formulant to the locus where it is desired to establish herbicidal selectivity by a convenient method. The locus may include soil, seeds, seedlings and vegetation. The formulations are commonly dusts, wettable powders, granules, solutions or emulsifiable concentrates. Thists are free flowing powder compositions containing the formulant impregnated on a particulate carrier. The particle size of the carriers is usually in the approximate range of 30 to 50 microns.Examples of suitable carriers are talc, bentonite, diatomaceous earth, and pyrophyllite. The composition generally contains up to 50,0 of formulant. Anti caking and anti static agents may also be added. Dusts may be applied by spraying from boom and hand sprayers on airplanes. Wettable powders are finely divided compositions comprising a particulate carrier impregnated with the formulant ard additionally containing one or more surface active agents. The surface active agent promotes rapid dispersion of the powder in an aqueous medium to form stable, sprayable suspensions. A wide variety of surface active agents can be used, for example, lorg chain fatty alcohols and alkali metal salts of the sulfated fatty alcohols salts of sulfonic acid esters of long chain fatty acids and polyhydric alcohols, in which the alcohol groups are free, omegasubstituted polyethylene glycols of relatively long chain lenght.A list of surface active agents suitable for use in agriculture forr.ulations can be four,d in wade Van Valkenburg, PesticideFormulation Marcel decker, Inc., N.Y., 1973 at pages 79 84. Granules comprise the formulant impregnated on a particulate inert carrier having a particle size of about 1 to 2 millimeters mm in diameter. The granules can be made by spraying a solution of the foruulant in a volatile solvent onto the granular carrier. Examples of suitable carriers for the preparation of granules include clay, vermiculite, sawdust, and granular carbon. Emulsifiable concentrates consist of an oil solution of the formulant plus an emulsifying agent. Prior to use the concentrate is diluted with water to form a suspended emulsion of oil droplets. The emulsifiers used are usually a mixture of anionic and nonionic surface tants. Other additives, such as suspending agents and thickeners, may be included in the emulsifiable concentrate. When the formulant is an antidote and herbicide composition, the proportion of antidote compound to herbicide compound generally ranges from approximately 0.001 to 30 parts by weight of the antidote compound per weight of the herbicide compound. Formulations generally contain several additives in addition to the formulant and carrier or agent. Among these are inert ingredients, diluent carriers, organic solvents, water, oil and water, water in oil emulsicns, carriers of dusts and granules, and surface active wetting, dispersing and emulsifying agents. Fertilizers, e.g., ammoni um nitrate, urea and superphosphate, may be included. Aids to rooting and growth, e.g., compost, manure, humus and sand, may also be included. Alternatively, the antidote compounds and herbicide and antidote compositions cf this invention can be applied to a crop by addition of the fonrnilant to irrigation water supplied to the field to be treated. This method of application permits the penetration of the compositions into the soil as the water is absorbed. As another alternative, the fcrmulant can be applied to the soil in the form of a solution in a suitable solvent. Solvents frequently used in these formulations include kerosene, fuel oil, xylene, petroleum fractions with boiling ranges above xylene and aromatic petroleum fractions rich in methylated naphthalenes. Liquid solutions, like dusts, may be applied by spraying fran boan and hand sprayers on airplanes.