# Proinsulin genes with modified C chain.

## Abstract
Human like proinsulin gene analogs have been synthesized by a combination of chemical and enzymatic methods. A number of different human like proinsulin gene analogs with altered C chains have been designed and can be readily constructed as described. As a part of the strategy, an adaptor for trimming DNA has been used to recover the A chain insulin gene with the desired sequence from a hybrid plasmid a related adapter for trimming DNA has been used to shorten the C chain gene. The synthetic proinsulin gene has been joined to a replicable cloning vehicle and the hybrid DNA transferred to a host cell. The transformed host cells can be grown under selected conditions to yield the proinsulin analogs.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An insulin C chain gene analog shortened or lengthened from the normal gene length by the deletion or addition of nucleotides, respectively. 2. The insulin C chain gene analog of claim 1 shortened or lengthened by the deletion or addition of nucleotides in multiples of three. 3. The insulin C chain gene of claim I wherein the normal gene length is the duplex DNA nucleotides 91 195 of formula 2 herein. 4. An insulin C chain partial gene as in claim 3 having the duplexDNA sequence C 1 to C 7 plus C 9 to C 16 of formula 2, suitable for ligation to appropriately adapted insulin A chain and B chain genes. 5. The insulin C chain gene of claim 3 shortened 12 base pairs by deletion of fragments C 5 and C 13. 6. The insulin C chain gene of claim 3 shortened 21 base pairs by deletion of fragments C 3, C 4, C 11 and C 12. 7. The insulin C chain gene of claim 3 shortened 33 base pairs by deletion of fragments C 3, C 4, C 5, C 11, C 12 and C 13. 8. The insulin C chain gene of claim 3 shortened by one of 12, 18, 24, 30, or more base pairs leftward from nucleotide 182 of Formula 2. 9. The insulin C chain gene of claim 3 shortened by one of 6, 9, 12, 15 .... up to 81 base pairs, in multiples of 3, leftward from nucleotide 182 of Formula 2. 10. The insulin C chain gene of claim 3 lengthened by multiples of three base pairs by ligating DNA fragments of selected lengths at theSau3A site 5 GATC of the C chain gene. CLAIMS cont. 11. The insulin C chain gene analog having the formula CGT CGT AAG CTT AAG CGT CCA CCA TTC Cli TTC GCA 12. An insulin C chain gene including inserted nucleotides selected to form at least one restriction enzyme recognition site. 13. Proinsulin gene analogs in which the normal C chain DNA has been shortened by deletion of nucleotides or lengthened by addition of nucleotides in multiples of three. 14. The proinsulin gene analogs of claim 13 ligated to a replicable cloning vehicle. 15. A method of assembling a modified proinsulin gene comprising a providing a combined insulin B partial C chain gene analog having the enzyme recognition sire for Sau3A 3 OTAC 5 in the lower DNA strand at the free partial C chain end, b providing an insulin A chain gene carrying the other part of theC chain gene analog and having the complementary recognition site for said enzyme 5 GATC 3 at the upstream end in the upper DNA strand of the remainder of the C chain gene analog, and c ligating the two genes a and b at their Sau3A sites to form the complete proinsulin gene.

## Description
pR0INSULTN GENES WITH MODIFIED C CHAINField of the Invention This invention is concerned with the synthesis of exact DNA genetic sequences and the joining of the synthetic gene to replicable cloning vehicles. Of particular concern is the total synthesis of the human like proinsulin gene analogs, the insertion of the gene analogs into cloning vehicles, and the transferring of the hybrid DNA molecules into host cells, the transformed cells thus having the ability to produce the specified human like proinsulin protein. The use of several adaptors for trimming DNA has been described, in particular trimming C chain DNA down to a desired length.Background and Prior Art In recent years, methods have been developed see MolecularCloning of Recombinant DNA , eds., W.A. Scott and R. Werner, AcademicPress Inc., 1977 , 1 for the in vitro joining by DNA ligase of a DNA segment to be cloned to a cloning vehicle DNA capable of independent replication , 2 for introducing the hybrid DNA molecule recombinant DNA into a suitable host cell, 3 for selecting and identifying the transformed cells carrying the desired hybrid DNA cloned DNA as a hybrid DNA , 4 for amplifying the desired cloned DNA in the transformed cells, and 5 for expressing the cloned DNA as a protein product. In most reported cases, DNA molecules isolated from cells or viruses have been fragmented by restriction enzyme digestion or by physical shearing or by reverse transcription copy of messenger to cDNA before cloning. Protein synthesis in bacteria using a segment of transferredDNA derived from mouse as the blue print was shown by Chang et al. Cell 6, 231 244, 1975 . Still other examples of the cloning of natural foreign DNA have been described recently Goeddel et al, Nature 281, 544 548, 1979 etc. . Methods for the total chemical synthesis of oligodeoxynucleotides of up to 20 nucleotides long have been well established by using either the phosphodiester method H.G. Khorana, J. Mol. Biol. 72, 209, 1972 or the improved phosphotriester method H.M. Hsiung and S.A.Narang, Nucleic Acids Res. 6, 1371, 1979 S.A. Narang et al, Methods inEnzymology, Vol. 65, 610, 1980, and Vol. 68, 90, 1979 . The latter method is now the preferred method because of its higher speed, better yield and,purity of products, and has been used to prepare defined DNA sequences of longer length. A few chemically synthesized DNA sequences, such as the lactose operator Marians, Wu, et al, Nature 263, 744, 1976 and the tyrosine tRNA gene Khorana, Science 203, 614, 1979 , have been successfully cloned in E. coli and the expression of the cloned DNA detected in subsequent cultures. Recent reports have indicated that human brain hormone somatostatin Itakura et al, Science 198, 1056, 1977 and human growth hormone Goeddel et al, Nature 281, 544, 1979 have been produced in a transformed bacterial host which had the transferred synthesized gene. In the pancreas of animals, preproinsulin S.J. Chan and D.F.Steiner, Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. 73, 1964, 1976 is synthesized as the precursor of insulin. The general structure of proinsulin is NH2 B chain C chain A chain COOH it is converted to insulin by the action of pep tidases in the pancreatic islet tissue which remove the C chain by cleavage at the positions of the two arrows shown in Formula 1 for the human proinsulin Oyer et al, J Biol. Chem., 246, 1375, 1971 . The B chain and A chain of insulin are held together by two disulfide cross linkages which are formed at the correct location at the stage of the proinsulin. Using a biological method, Ullrich et al, Science 196, 1313, 1977 and Villa Komoroff et al, Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. 75, 3727, 1978 succeeded in cloning the coding region of rat proinsulin I. Using a chemical method, Crea et al, Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. 75, 5765, 1978 , synthesized, and Goeddel et al Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. 76, 106, 1979 , cloned, an insulin A chain gene and a B chain gene, separately. The codons selected for these synthetic genes were arbitrary and quite different from the natural human DNA sequence. On culturing, the bacteria produced an insulin A chain protein and B chain protein which were separately treated to remove the extraneous 8 galactosidase and methionine. In U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 843,422, filed Oct. 19, 1977, by R. Wu et al, and U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 129,880, Formula 1 THE STRUCTURE OF HUMAN PROINSULIN B chein, amino acids 1 30, C peptide, amino acids 31 65 A chain, amino acide 66 86. Residues, 31, 32, 64, 65 will be excised durig processing.N terminal end EMI3.1 1 SEP Phe tb SEP tb SEP Val SEP B SEP CHAIN tb SEP SEP 5 SEP 10 SEP 15 SEP 20 SEP 22 tb SEP Asn Glu His Leu Cys Gly Ser His Leu Val Glu Ala Leu Try Leu Val Cys Gly Glu Arg Gly Phe Phe SEP 25 tb SEP SEP SEP tb SEP S SEP S SEP Tyr tb SEP SEP SEP tb SEP S SEP A SEP CHAIN SEP S SEP Thr tb SEP 70 SEP SEP 75 SEP SEP tb SEP Val Glu Gln Cys Cys Thr Ser Ile Cys Ser Leu Try Glu Leu Glu Asn Try Cys Asn COOH SEP Pro tb SEP SEP SEP SEP 80 SEP 85 SEP tb SEP Ile SEP S SEP S SEP C terminal SEP tb SEP SEP Lys tb SEP Gly SEP tb SEP SEP Thr SEP 30 tb 65 SEP Arg SEP tb SEP SEP tb SEP Lys SEP Arg tb SEP SEP tb SEP Gln SEP Glu SEP Arg tb SEP SEP tb SEP Leu SEP Ala tb SEP SEP tb SEP Ser SEP Glu SEP 35 tb SEP SEP tb SEP SEP C SEP PEPTIDE SEP Asp tb SEP SEP tb Gly Glu Leu Ala Leu Pro Gln Leu Ser Gly Ala Gly Pro Gly Gly Gly Leu Glu Val Gln Gly Val Gln Leu tb SEP 60 SEP 55 SEP 50 SEP 45 SEP 40 tb filed tRarch 27, 1980, by S.A. Narang et al, synthetic adaptor molecules were described for attachment to the ends of DNA sequences, such as synthetic insulin A chain and B chain gene, for joining to cloning vehicles or other DNA. These adaptors comprised DNA oligonucleotide sequences having particular nucleotide segments which are recognition sites for restriction endonucleases and codon triplets.These adaptors can also be used to provide an enzyme recognition site on a duplex DNA sequence or to change from one type of site to another.Summary of the Invention Novel codon sequences for insulin C chain gene DNA have been provided. Shorter or mini C chains have been developed and used to form analogs of proinsulin. A restriction enzyme recognition site was incorporated in these C chains by selection of appropriate codons at a selected location to facilitate opening and insertion of a DNA information sequence. The invention includes combining selected A , B and C chains into novel proinsulin genes, ligating these genes to replicable cloning vehicles and transferring the resulting hybrid into host cells. In particular, for example, a synthetic human like proinsulin gene formula 2 has been synthesized by a combination of chemical and enzymatic methods. A start signal ATG and an EcoRI cohesive end 5 AATT was placed at the 5t end left hand end of the gene, and a stop signal TGA and aBamHI cohesive end 5 GATC was placed at the 3 end of the gene. This adapted proinsulin gene was joined to a replicable cloning vehicle that can enter a cell and replicate itself together with the cloning vehicle.The transformed host cell progeny was shown by DNA sequence analysis to contain the exact input proinsulin gene. A plasmid cloning vehicle has been constructed which includes a lactose promoter and produces several hundred copies of the proinsulin gene per cell. Formula 2 DNA SEQUENCE OF HUMAN LIKE PROINSULIN GENE. The duplex structure represented by base pairs 1 through 258 constitutes the proinsulin gene. The B chain, C chain and A chain start from base pairs 1, 91 and 196, respectively.EMI5.1 tb SEP EcoRI SEP site SEP SEP B chain. tb SEP SEP B 18 SEP B 1 SEP B 2 SEP B 3 tb 5 SEP AATTC SEP CGG SEP at SEP SEP ATCS SEP Th 1TTGTCAATCAG SEP CAC SEP OTT SEP TGT SEP GGT TCT SEP CAC SEP CTG SEP GTG tb SEP 11 SEP 31 tb SEP 1 tb 3 SEP G SEP GCC SEP TAO SEP AAA SEP CAG SEP TTA SEP GTC SEP GTG SEP GAA ACA SEP CCA SEP AGA SEP GTG GAC SEP CAC SEP tb SEP B 19 SEP j SEP B 10 SEP B ll SEP B tb SEP B 4 SEP B 5 SEP B 6 SEP B 7 tb 5 SEP X SEP lGAG SEP GCT SEP CrC SEP TACI SEP ICTG SEP GTG SEP TCT SEP dt SEP GAA SEP CCT SEP GGT SEP TIC SEP TTC SEP TAC SEP ACA SEP CCE tb SEP 61 SEP 83 tb 3 SEP CrC SEP CGA GAC SEP ATG SEP GAC SEP CAC11ACA SEP CCC SEP OTT SEP GCA1ICCA SEP AAG SEP AAG SEP ATC1 SEP tTGT SEP GGG tb SEP 12 SEP B 13 SEP B 14 SEP B 15 SEP B tb SEP 1 SEP C chain tb SEP B 8 SEP 1 SEP C 1 SEP C 2 SEP C 3 tb 5 SEP AAG SEP ACq SEP OCT SEP CGTI SEP IGAA SEP GCT SEP GAA SEP GAC ICTT SEP CAA SEP GTG SEP CGT SEP ICAA SEP GTT SEP GAY SEP CUT tb SEP 1 SEP 91 SEP 121 tb 3t SEP TTC SEP TC1GCA SEP GCA SEP OTT SEP OC1OTT SEP OTG SEP GAA SEP GTT SEP CAX SEP CCA SEP GTT SEP CAAICTT SEP Cli tb SEP 16 SEP 1 SEP C 9 SEP C 10 SEP C ll SEP C tb SEP C 4 SEP C 5 SEP SEP C 6 SEP C 7 tb 5 SEP GGT SEP GGC SEP GGTi SEP OCT SEP GGT SEP CCC SEP CGT SEP OAAOCr SEP TTC SEP GCT SEP CrC SEP GAG SEP dt A tb 3 SEP CCA SEP CC, SEP CCA SEP GGA SEP OCA SEP CG C SEP OCA SEP AGA SEP GAAI,GTT SEP GGA SEP AAC SEP OGA,1GAG SEP CTC SEP CCT tb SEP 12 SEP C 13 SEP C 14 SEP C 15 SEP C 16 tb SEP 1 SEP A chain tb SEP C 8 SEP I tb 5 SEP TCA SEP OTT SEP CAA SEP AAG SEP CC SEP l SEP CGC SEP ATT SEP GTG SEP GAG SEP CAG SEP TGC SEP TGC SEP ACC SEP AGC SEP ATC SEP TGC tb SEP 181 SEP 1196 tb 3 SEP ffi SEP T SEP GAA SEP GTT SEP TTC SEP GCAI SEP COG SEP TAA SEP CAC SEP CrC SEP GTC SEP ACG SEP ACG SEP TGG SEP TCG SEP TAG SEP ACG tb SEP l tb SEP C 17 tb 5 TCC CTC TAC CAA CTG GAG AAC TAC TGC AAC TGA G 3 241 258 3 AGG GAG ATG GTT GAC CTC TTG ATG ACG TTG ACT CCTAG 5 BamHI site Detailed Description and Preferred EmbodinentsA. The Adaptors for Trimming DNA The principle behind this type of retrieving trimming adaptor ic. based on the knowledge that certain restriction endonucleases such asHphI and MboII cleave DNA eight nucleotides away from their recognition sequence R.J. Roberts, Methods in Enzymol. 68, 27, 1980 . In formula 3, the five nucleotides with a line drawn above constitute the recognition sequence, where N stands for any nucleotide. Formula 3 Recognition sequence and mode of cleavage of HphI and MboIIEMI6.1 tb a SEP HphI SEP 5 SEP C SEP C SEP T SEP C SEP A SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N tb SEP 3 SEP C SEP C SEP A SEP C SEP T SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N tb b SEP MboII SEP 5 SEP C SEP A SEP A SEP C SEP A SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N tb SEP 3 SEP C SEP T SEP T SEP C SEP T SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N tb We have designed and synthesized adaptors for trimming DNA as symmetric adaptors non symmetric adaptors based on formula 3 can also be used Formula 4 HphI and MboII adaptors for trimming DNA a l HphI 5 T C A C C C C T C A 3 A G T G G C C A C T b l fbofl 5 TCTTCGAAGA 3 AGAAGCTTCT This type of adaptor for trimming DNA can be blunt end ligated to any DNA from which 8 nucleotides at the end can be removed. MboII adaptor is used as an example to remove eight nucleotides N N N N N N N N from the end of a cloned insulin A chain gene. Formula 5 Scheme for removing 8 base pairs from any DNA molecule using MboII retrieving adaptor b 2 EMI7.1 tb SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 8 tb 5 SEP T SEP C SEP T SEP T SEP C SEP G SEP A SEP A SEP G SEP A SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP cloned tb SEP SEP A chain tb 3 SEP A SEP C SEP A SEP A SEP C SEP C SEP T SEP T SEP C SEP T SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP gene tb SEP SEP 1 SEP blunt end SEP ligation SEP T4 SEP DNA SEP ligase tb SEP 1 SEP S tb 5 SEP T SEP C SEP T SEP T SEP C SEP G SEP A SEP A SEP G SEP A SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP P SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP cloned tb SEP A chain tb 3 SEP A SEP C SEP A SEP A SEP C SEP C SEP T SEP T SEP C SEP TN SEP NNNNNNN SEP gene tb SEP MboII SEP endonuclease tb SEP SEP J tb 5 SEP T SEP C SEP T SEP T SEP C SEP C SEP A SEP A SEP C SEP A SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP cloned SEP SEP SEP SEP tb SEP A SEP C SEP A SEP A SEP C SEP C SEP T SEP T SEP C SEP TN SEP SEP A chain SEP SEP SEP SEP 3 SEP A SEP G SEP A SEP A SEP G SEP C SEP T SEP T SEP C SEP T SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP gene tb SEP E. SEP colipolymerase SEP I SEP SEP dXTP tb SEP e tb SEP 5 SEP cloned tb SEP A chain tb SEP 3 SEP gene The dXTP is chosen so that it is identical to the one adjacent to N at the 3 end of the cloned A chain gene, e.g. if the nucleotide X is C then dCTP is used. In principle, adaptors for trimming DNA of this type containing 1 to 7 additional nucleotides beyond the MboII or Hphl recognition sites can be used to trim off 7 to 1 base pairs from the ends of any DNA duplex Narang et al, Nucleic Acids Res. Symposium Series No. 7, 377, 1980 .This technique was used in modifying the insulin C chain.B. Chemical synthesis of deoxyribooligonucleotide fragments constituting the sequence of human proinsulin gene The chemical synthesis of all the deoxyribooligonucleotides constituting the sequence of human proinsulin DNA as in formula 2 and various adaptors were achieved by the modified phosphotriester approach developed in one of our labs in 1973 Can. J. Chem. 51, 3649, 1973 S.Narang et al, Methods of Enzymology 65, 610, 1980 and S. Narang et al, Methods in Enzymology 68, 90, 1979 . The main features of our approach are i use of 5 diaethoxytrityl deoxyribomononucleoside 3 phosphotriester monomer as a starting material ii condensation between 5 dimethoxytrityl deoxyribomononucleoside 31 phosphodiester with a 5 hydroxy containing component to yield a dinucleotide containing an internucleotidic phosphotriester linkage as a neutral species which is amenable to all the conventional techniques of organic chemistry for their isolation and iii formation of the desired product in a higher yield because of the absence of side products. The synthesis of all the deoxyribooligomers 10 20 units length were constructed from the sixteen possible dimer blocks. Each coupling reaction was performed using almost stoichiometric amounts of each component in the presence of mesitylenesulfonyl tetrazole, as coupling reagent S. Narang et al, U.S. Patent No. 4,059,592, 22 November 1977 , for 30 45 min. at room temperature. After work up, the desired product was isolated by the reversed phased chromatographic technique developed by H.M. Hsiung et al, Nucleic Acid Res. 6, 1371, 1979. After the completion of synthesis, the 5 dimethoxytrityl group was removed using 2 benzenesulfonic solution in chloroform aethanol J.Stawinski et al, Nucleic Acid Res. 4, 353, 1977 . All the other protecting groups were removed by two step concentrated ammonia treatments H.M. Using et al, Nucleic Acid Res. 8, 5753, 1980 . Each of the unprotected oligomers was purified on PEI tlc plate and sequenced by the mobility shift method C.D. Tu et al, Anal. Biochem. 74, 73, 1976 . Each fragment sequence was confirmed and their autoradiographs have been published Nucleic AcidRes. 6, 1371, 1979 7, 2199, 1979 8, 5753, 1980 .C. Synthesis and Cloning of the Proinsulin Gene The human like proinsulin gene which we prepared is given in formula 2. This codon sequence base pairs 1 through 258 was selected by us and codes for the human like proinsulin, the structure of which is shown in formula 1. The coding sequence gene sequence was based on that of the rat proinsulin gene Ullrich et al, Science 196, 1313, 1977 wherever the amino acids are in common. The amino acids in positions 3, 9, 30, 34, 37, 40, 42, 49, 52, 55, 60, 61, 62 and 69 for the human proinsulin are different than those in rat, thus in these positions a coding sequence for the human proinsulin was selected. In formula 2 the nucleotides 1 90, 91 195 and 196 258 code for human like insulin chain B, chainC and chain A, respectively. The codons we selected form a unique com binatlon. The human like proinsulin gene was assembled in the following way. The gene coding for the B chain and a major portion of the C chain was constructed as one unit which included the start signal on fragmentsB 18 and B 19 and the coding sequence nucleotides 1 178 of the upper strand and 1 182 of the lower strand of formula 2 . This synthetic DNA was constructed from 32 synthetic fragments of 10 to 13 nucleotides in length. Four to six fragments were first joined together by cohesive end ligation using DNA ligase to give six groups of fragments a f in formula 6 . The sequence of each fragment was shown in formula 2. A similar scheme can be used for other proinsulin analogs. Formula 6 A scheme for the construction of B C chain of a human like proinsulin gene. a B 18 B l B 2 B 19 B 10 B ll b B 3 B 4 B 5 B 12 B 13 B 14 c B 6 B 7 B 15 B 16 d B 8 C i C 2 C 9 C 10 C li e C 3 C 4 C 12 C 13 Formula 6 cont. f EMI10.1 tb SEP C S SEP C 6 SEP C 7 tb SEP C 14 SEP C 15 SEP C 16 tb SEP e SEP es tb SEP B 18 tb SEP EcoRI tb SEP site SEP start SEP 1 SEP 178 tb 5 SEP AATTCCGGBTG tb 3 SEP SEP B C SEP chain SEP gene SEP ss SEP C SEP T SEP A SEP G tb SEP frag SEP B 19 SEP sau SEP 3A tb Structure I In constructing each group of fragments, about 800 pmoles of each synthetic fragment 4 to 6 fragments was phosphorylated at its 5 end with 32p using polynucleotide kinase. The phosphorylated fragment was purified on a 20 polyacrylamide gel.About 500 pmoles of each purified fragment was annealed in 30 V1 volume at 650C and slowly cooled to OOC, Concentrated DNA ligase buffer was added to give the following final concentrations 50 mM Tris HCl pR 7.6 , 10 mM 10 mM dithiothreitol, 100 pM ATOP. T4 polynucleotide ligase 0.4 unit was added and the mixture incubated at 12 C for 24 36 hours. The ligation product was purified on a 15 polyacrylamide gel denaturing condition . The yield of fragments incorporated into each group a through f varied between 120 and 250 pmoles. In the next step, one group was joined to the adjacent group e.g. group a to b by cohesive end ligation until all six groups were connected to give structure I of formula 6. The ligation conditions are the same as given in the paragraph above. The yield of structure I was about 20 pmoles. The cloned human like insulin A chain gene has been reported in a pending U.S. patent application No. 129,880, filed March 27, 1980, byS.A. Narang and R.J. Wu, which is hereby incorporated by reference. The insulin A chain gene has been retrieved recovered from the clone by digestion with EcoRI restriction enzyme, which exposed the EcoRI site eight nucleorideo away from the A chain gene as shown in formula 7. Formula 7 The Cloned Insulin A chain Gene.EMI11.1 tb EcoRI tb SEP site SEP start SEP 196 SEP 258 SEP stop tb 5 SEP AATTCATG SEP A chain SEP gene, SEP TGAG SEP pER322 SEP 3 tb SEP GTAC SEP base SEP pairs SEP 196 258 SEP ACTCCTAG SEP tb SEP Bam SEP site tb Note that the 3 end right hand end of the cloned A chain gene at this stage is still joined to the stop adaptor and pBR322 plasmid cloning vehicle. The eight extra nucleotides at the 5 end lefthand side of the insulin A chain gene which includes the start signal has been removed by using a MboII trimming adaptor. The DNA in formula 7 was first repaired by using dATP and dTTP in the presence of AMV reverse transcriptase. A decanucleotide MboII adaptor for trimming DNA was next blunt end ligated to the repaired end to give Formula 8 MboII Adaptor Ligated to the Repaired Cloned A chain GeneEMI11.2 tb SEP bfboll SEP start SEP 196 SEP 258 tb 5 SEP TCTTCÇAAGAAATTCATGf SEP A SEP hal SEP en SEP TGApBR SEP 322 SEP SEP SEP SEP tb SEP A chain SEP gene tb 3 SEP AGAAGCTTCTTTAAGTAg SEP cnge SEP ACTCCTAG tb SEP MboII SEP retrieving SEP adaptor tb The blunt end ligation was carried out in 15 1 of a reaction mixture containing 50 mM Tris HCl pH 7.6 , 10 mM MgCl2, 10 mM dithiothreitol 100 M ATP, 100 pmoles of the self complementary MboII adaptor, 30 pmoles of cloned A chain gene, and 0.3 units of T4 polynucleotide kinase.Incubation was at 1200 for 40 hours. Cleavage of DNA shown in formula 8 with NboIl restriction enzyme which cleaves DNA at the arrows, eight nucleotides away from recognition sequence GAAGA ,. followed by E. coli polymerase I in the presence of 32p dCTP or cold dCTP to insure that the end of DNA is flushed , Results in the removal of the eight extra base pairs from theA chain gene. The retrieved A chain gene was next cleaved with BamHI restriction enzyme, which gave the following structure Formula 9 Retrieved Insulin A chain Gene.EMI12.1 tb SEP 196 SEP 258 SEP stop tb SEP T SEP G SEP A SEP C tb A chain SEP gene tb SEP A SEP C SEP T SEP C SEP C SEP T SEP A SEP G tb SEP BamHI SEP site tb The retrieved insulin A chain gene was blunt end ligated to segments C 8 and C 17 to give structure II.EMI12.2 tb SEP C 8 tb SAu3A SEP 196 SEP 258 SEP stop tb GATCACTTCAAAAGCG SEP A h SEP SEP TGAG SEP tb SEP A chain SEP gene tb SEP ACTCCTAG tb SEP C 17 SEP BAMHI SEP site tb Structure IIStructure II was then joined to structure I at their Sau3A sites by cohesive end ligation under the same conditions as given above for each group of fragments, to give the proinsulin B C A chain gene as shown in formula 10, lower part. This same synthesis strategy can be adapted to prepare other proinsulin gene analogs. Formula 10 Scheme for the construction of a human like proinsulin gene from synthetic fragmentsEMI13.1 tb SEP B 18 SEP C 8 tb EcoRI tb site SEP start SEP 1 SEP 178 SEP Sau3A SEP 96 SEP 258 SEP stop tb AATTCC GATS, SEP i SEP GATC SEP TGAG tb SEP B C SEP chain SEP gene SEP SEP CTAC SEP SEP A SEP chain SEP genACTOCTAG tb SEP frag SEP B XQ9 SEP Sau3A SEP C 17 SEP BamHI tb SEP site tb SEP Structure SEP I SEP Structure SEP II tb SEP ligation tb SEP EcoRI SEP SEP Z tb SEP site SEP start SEP 1 SEP 258 SEP stop tb SEP AATTCCGGATG SEP TGAG tb SEP B C A SEP chain SEP gene tb SEP ACTCCTAG SEP ACTCCTAC tb SEP BadHI SEP site tb SEP Proinsulin SEP Gene tb It must be pointed out that the human like proinsulin gene canalso be constructed by joining the same 32 fragments of the B C chain and the retrieved A chain gene in several different ways. The natural human proinsulin contains a C chain consisting of 35 amino acids. The efficiency of removing the C chain by peptidases to produce biologically active insulin B A chains may be influenced by the length of the C chain. Thus, we dsigned several methods to produce proinsulin analogs by changing the length of the C chain gene, which would lead to proinsulin analogs with different lengths of the C chain. One or several of the proinsulin analogs may prove to be superior than the natural proinsulin in giving a higher yield of the biologically active insulin, and possibly the modified C chains will have less physiological side effects. a In one method, the length of the C chain gene normally 35 amino acids X3 105 base pairs can be assembled by omitting two or more fragments to give only 93, 84 or 72 base pairs, respectively. This can be accomplished by constructing the B C chain in a similar way as that in formula 6 except that groups d, e, f have been redesigned see formula 11 by eliminating fragments C S and C 13 to give a C chain shorter by 12 base pairs see formula 11 . In a similar manner, the elimination of fragments C 3, C 4, C 11, and C 12, gave a C chain shorter by 21 base pairs, or the elimination of fragments C 3, C 4, C 5, Cell, C 12, andC 13, gave a C chain shorter by 33 base pairs. Formula 11 Scheme for the construction of a shorter B C chain of a human like proinsulin gene. Groups a , brand c are the same as in formula 6 and are not shown. d B 8 0 1 C 2 C 9 C 10 GGGT e C 3 C 4 CCCA GGGT C 11 C 12 f COCA 0 6 C 7 C 14 C 15 C 16 These constructions are possible since the nucleotide sequence at the junctions of the eliminated fragments C 2, C 4, and C 5 are identical and they all contain a 3 protruding sequence d G G G T in the upper strand see formula 2, underlined nucleotides, and formula 11 .Thus, we can eliminate one or two or three segments from the upper strand and still allow annealing with the d C C C A sequence in the lower strand to give C chains of different length. Once the different shortened C chains are assembled, each will be joined to groups a , b , and c of formula 6 to give shortened B C chain gene similar to structure I of formula 10. Finally, shortened structure I is oitd to structure II of formula 10 to give shortened proinsulin genes as analogs of the normal gene. b The C chain gene can be shortened to only 18 base pairs by ligating the following synthetic fragments between the right hand end of theB chain gene and the left hand end of the A chain gene as follows Formula 12 Eni C chain coding sequence of human proinsulin geneEMI15.1 tb SEP Arg SEP Arg SEP Lys SEP Leu SEP Lys SEP Arg tb SEP 5 SEP CGT SEP CGT SEP AAG SEP CTT SEP AAG SEP CGT tb SEP I SEP I tb SEP I SEP I tb 3 SEP GCA SEP GCA SEP TTC SEP GAA SEP TTC SEP GCA tb SEP B chain SEP mini C chain SEP gene SEP A chain SEP gene tb SEP fragments tb The human like proinsulin gene chain B C A , or its analogs, which carries a start signal at the 5 end left end and the stop signal at the 3 end right end was jointed to EcoRI and BamHI digested pBR322 plasmid and the resulting hybrid DNA used to transform E. coli strain 5346 . This strain and the containment facilities used conformed to current recombinant DNA regulations. The desired clones were identified by colony hybridization Grunstein and Hogness, Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. 72, 3961, 1975 with 32p labelled C chain fragment 17 32 nucleotides long , and 32p labelled cloned A chain fragment. Among the positive clones, the exact sequence of several cloned proinsulin genes was determined by DNA sequence analysis. The C chain gene in the cloned human like proinsulin gene also can be shortened after digesting the latter with Sau3A restriction enzyme to give a DNA structure in which the right hand end is similar to that shown in Structure I above, and the left hand end includes all of theB chain gene and an additional 325 base pairs of the DNA from the cloning vehicle pBR322. This molecule can be shortened from the right hand end in two ways i by removing the 4 protruding nucleotides 5 GATC by S1 nuclease digestion Vogt et al, Europ. J. Biochem. 33, 192, 1973 and joining a Mbo II retrieving adaptor by blunt end ligation. After carrying out the steps shown in Formula 5 above, 8 base pairs can be removed from the right hand end to shorten this part of the C chain by 12 base pairs 4 8 . By repeating the Mbo II retrieving adaptor procedure Formula 5 one or more cycles, but using the following adaptor Formula 13 , 6 base pairs can be removed in each cycle from the right hand end of the already shortened C chain gene. Formula 13 A Mbo II retrieving adaptor containing two additional base pairs at each end N, N are any complementary nucleotides 5 N N T C T T C G A A G A N N 3 N N A G A A G C T T C T N N By using the above methods, the C chain gene of the proinsulin can be shortened by a total of 12, 18, 24 or 30 base pairs leftward from the nucleotide num 182 of Formula 2 above. ii by digesting the DNA with a combination of exonuclease III and S1 nuclease Wu et al, Biochem. 15, 734, 1976 Roberts et al, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 76, 760, 1978 or with BAL3l Legerski et al, NucleicAcids Res. 5 1445, 1978 Talmadge et al, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 77, 3369 and 3988, 1980 . In this method from about 6 to 81 base pairs can be removed and those DNA molecules with a multiple of 3 base pairs removed e.g. 6, 9, 12, 15 . .. 81 can be selected after cloning and DNA sequence analysis. The C chain gene can be lengthened by digesting the cloned human like proinsulin gene with Sau3A restriction enzyme as described above and inserting DNA fragments of different lengths. For example, the 5 protruding end 5 GCTA can be joined by cohesive end ligation to another molecule of synthetic fragment C 16 followed by C 7. After repair synthesis with 4 dNTP and the AMV reverse transcriptase, the bluntended DNA is now 13 base pairs longer. lXhen this molecule is blunt end ligated to the S1 nuclease digested structure II above, which digestion removed 4 base pairs from the retrieved and modified insulin A chain gene, the net result is an addition of 9 base pairs to the C chain of the proinsulin gene codes for three additional amino acids .Using the same procedure but adding C 16 C 7, C 15 and C 6 fragments, the end result is the addition of 21 base pairs seven additional amino acids . Similarly, other multiples of three base pairs can be added. After the modification of the C chain gene, which is still attached to the B chain gene and some pBR322 DNA, it can be blunt end ligated to, the retrieved and modified insulin A chain gene Structure I f above after cleaving off the 4 protruding nucleotides 5 GATC at theSau3A site at the left hand end by S1 nucleaMe as mentioned in the previous paragraph . The product is then digested by EcoRI and BamHI restriction enzymes to release the shortened proinsulin gene corresponding to the parent structure shown at the bottom of Formula 10, above , and ligated by cohesive end ligation to EcoRI and BamHZ digested pBR322 plasmid and cloned as described previously. For maximum expression, the cloned proinsulin gene can be excised by digestion of the cloned hybrid plasmid DNA with EcoRI and BatiiHI endonucleases. The BamHI end can be converted to an EcoRI end by using an EcoRI BadHI conversion adaptor of the type reported in U.S. PatentApplication No. 129,880, filed March 27, 1980 by S.A. Narang and R.J. Wu.The conversion adaptor has the structure Formula 14 EcoRI BamHI Conversion Adaptor EcoRI site 5 A A T T C T A A C A G T C G 3 G A T T G T C A G C C T A G BamNI site The resulting adapted proinsulin gene carrying an EcoRI site at each end can be ligated to a plasmid such as pBGP 120 Polisky et al,Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. 73, 3900, 1976 or pLL70 Lau and Wu, unpublished result , adjacent to a strong lactose promoter for expression. This reconstructed hybrid plasmid DNA carrying the proinsulin gene can be used to transform E. coli cells and to direct the synthesis of large amounts of the human proinsulin, which is a natural precursor of biologically active insulin. Alternatively, the cloned proinsulin gene can be joined to the lactose promoter and then to plasmid pKN402 Uhlin et al, Gene 6, 91, 1979 , or a derivative of it, which can produce over 200 copies of the plasmid per E. coli cell. The copy number of this plasmid is at least seven times more than that of pBGP120 or pBR322. Thus, over 200 copies of the proinsulin gene can be synthesized per E. coli cell to yield up to 500,000 copies of the proinsulin protein per cell. The E. coli proinsulin clone is being maintained in the Dept.of Biochemistry at Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y. and will be made available as required.