# Process for the decomposition of methyl tert butyl ether.

## Abstract
A process for recovering isobutylene B and methanol C by decomposing methyl tert butyl ether MTBE A is pro vided, which comprises a reaction distillation wherein a MTBE is decomposed in the presence of acid catalyst in the li quid phase 1 , b decomposition product is distilled under reflux in a distillation column 2 to separate isobutylene from the top of the said column and methanol from a side cut efflu ent and or effluent from the bottom of the said column. Metha nol is preferably separated 3 from the effluent which is then returned to a and or b .

## Claims
a n A I M S 1. A process for the recovery of isobutylene and methanol from methyl tert butyl ether MTBE characterised by decomposing the MTBE in the liquid phase in the presence of acid catalyst, and distilling the decom position products under reflux to yield an overhead fraction composed mainly of isqbutylene and a side cut and or bottoms effluent containing methanol. 2. A process according to claim 1 including separating methanol from the side cut and or bottoms effluent, and recycling the remainder of said effluent to the decomposition and or distillation. 3. A process according to claim 2 characterised in that methanol is separated by water washing of the effluent. 4. A process according to any preceding claim characterised in that the acid catylist is a sulfonic acrid type ion exchange resin. 5. A process according to any preceding claim characterised in that the reaction pressure is from 2 1 to 6 kg cm2.G. 6. A process according to any preceding claim characterised in that the reflux wt. ratio is from 1 to 10. 7. A reaction distillation process for recovering isobutylene and methanol by decomposing methyl tert butyl ether MTBE wherein a decomposition of MTBE is conducted in the liquid phase in the presence of acid catalyst, b the reaction mixture is heated and led to a distillation column in the vapour phase, c the fraction composed mainly of isobutylene is separated from the top of the said distillation column and reflux is conducted, d methanol is separated from the side cut effluent and or the effluent from the bottom of the said distillation column, e the remainder of said effluents is recycled to the said distillation column and or the reaction.

## Description
PROCESS FOR THE DECOMPOSITION OF METHYL TERT BUTYL ETHER The present invention pertains to a process for recovering isobutylene and methanol from the decomposition of methyl tert butyl ether abbreviated toMTBE hereinafter . There has long been a need in the petrochemical industry to develop a process for efficient utilization of C4 fractions. Particularly, so called spent BB abbreviated to SBB hereinafter , which is the residue after the extraction of butadiene, has been used mostly for fuel and rarely as an effective raw material for petrochemistry. There has recently been developed a process wherein isobutylene in SBB is made to react with methanol to separate the former as MTBE which can be employed as one of the components of gasoline. However, the additional profit of utilizing MTBE for fuel is not necessarily large. On the other hand, a method of direct oxidation of isobutylene to produce methacrylic acid has recently come to be employed industrially and this is an example of the highly efficient use of isobutylene as a raw material in petrochemistry. Isobutylene can be used as a raw material for producing other chemical products such as butyl rubber, isoprene and 4 methyl 2,6 di tertbutyl phenol. It is necessary to separate isobutylene from SBB inexpensively if its use as a raw chemical material is to be economical. However, it is impossible to separate the SBB components simply by distillation, because of their close boiling points, and a method has been adopted wherein isobutylene is extracted from SBB with aqueous sulfuric acid and then released however, this method has many drawbacks such as the need for equipment of expensive material and for expensive waste water treatment. It is also known to separate isobutylene from SBB by the terb butanol or MTBE process wherein isobutylene is converted to tert butanol or MTBE, which is separated from the reaction mixture and then decomposed to recover isobutylene. The MTBE method is preferable in terms of effective utilization of n butene, i.e.the residue after isobutylene is separated from the MTBE decomposition mixture, because the reaction of isobutylene and methanol proceeds selectively and quantitatively under milder conditions in the presence of ion exchange resin as a catalyst.For the decomposition of MTBE a vapour phase catalytic reaction is well knows but has the drawbacks that heat charge is large because of the high reaction temperature, unfavorable side reactions run to produce by products such as. dimethyl ether, and catalyst life is comparatively short so that frequent catalyst regeneration and or repacking may be necessary. The present invention provides an improved process for recovery of isobutylene and methanol by decomposition of MTBE and hence permits more efficient utilization of SBB. The process of the present invention is characterised by decomposing the MTBE in the liquid phase in the presence of acid catalyst, and distilling the decomposition products under reflux to yield an overhead fraction composed mainly of isobutylene and a side cut and or bottoms effluent containing methanol. The reaction distillation process of this invention may be one wherein a decomposition of MTBE is conducted in the liquid phase in the presence of acid catalyst, b the reaction mixture is heated and led to a distillation column in the vapour phase, c the fraction composed mainly of isobutylene is separated from the top of the said distillation column whilst proper reflux is conducted, d methanol is separated from a side cut effluent and or effluent from the bottom of the said distillation column, and e the remainder of the said effluent is recycled to the said dis lllation column and or the reaction. The decomposition reaction is conducted in the presence of acid catalyst in the liquid phase. The catalyst employed in this invention may be a mineral acid such as sulfuric acid or phosphoric acid, organic sulfoic acid, or solid acid catalyst such as activated alumina, silica alumina, metal sulphate or ion exchange resin. Sulfonated ion exchange resin is a preferred catalyst because it does not corrode the equipment used. Preferred catalyst concentration is 0.1 to 20 wt. of the reaction mixture. Reaction temperature is suitably 60 150 0C., more preferably 80 120 0C. Reaction rate may be too low below 600C, and catalyst decomposition and undue formation of by product dimethyl ether tend to occur above 150 0C. The decomposition reaction in the present invention is generally conducted at the boil, so that the reaction temperature depends upon the reaction pressure. Appropriate reaction pressure is for 2 g cm2 2 example 1 6 kg cm .G Gauge , preferably 2 5 kg cm2.G. Reaction solvent is not essential but solvent other than methanol or MTBE may be used, e.g. a hydrocarbon such as iso octene. The accompanying drawing is a schematic block diagram of an embodiment of this invention. Referring to the drawing the vapour generated in the reactor 1 is introduced to a distillation column 2 directly connected to reactor 1. Within limits, better results are attained as the number of theoretical plates in said column increases. In practice, at least 3 plates are preferable, but increase beyond 10 plates does not necessarily improve results further. Reflux its conducted at the top zone of the distillation column 2 in the present invention. The higher the reflux ratio employed, the greater the efficiency obtainable but the greater the heat expenditure necessary. The preferred reflux ratioR F wherein R and F represent the weights per unit hour of reflux and of feedstock supply respectively is 1 10, more preferably 3 6. Methanol, which is one of the decomposition products of MTBE, is separated from the side cut effluent or the effluent from the bottom of the distillation column 2. For separating methanol from said effluent any conventional methods may be employed of these, extraction with water is preferred, because methanol forms an azeotropic mixture with MTBE alternatively the extraction of methanol with water may be conducted after concentration of methanol by distillation. The remainder mainly MTBE of said effluent after the separation of methanol can be returned to the distillation column 2 or the reactor 1. The separation of methanol in the side cut effluent or the effluent from the bottom of the distillation column is essential in the present invention. If methanol is taken out together with isobutylene from the top of the distillation columns without separation as aforesaid, the conversion of MTBE is insufficient and much heat expenditure is necebsa, for the recovery and recycling of unreacted MTBE. The process of this invention, in contrast, can give substantially quantitative conversion of MTBE, and the effluent from the top of the distillation column can be supplied as a starting material, e.g. for oxidation to methaEtiylic acid, without complicated pre treatment. In the drawing, 3 is a column for extracting methanol with water and 4 is a distillation column for the recovery of methanol. The MTBE feedstock of the reaction is supplied via a conduit A, while isobutylene and methanol are recovered via conduits B and C respectively. The present invention is further illustrated by the following specific non limiting Example using a system as shown in the drawing. EXAMPLE 10 dry wt. parts of strong acid type ion exchange resin Duolite C 26H type grade from DiamondSchamlock and 100 wt. parts of MTBE were introduced into a pressure vessel reactor 1 equipped with stirrer and stirred under heating. Distillation column 2 connected directly. to reactor 1 is of about 5 theoretical plates. While maintaining a pressure of 3 mg cm2.G, theMTBE feedstock was supplied to the reactor at a rate of 100 t. parts per hour and at the same time the effluent from the top of the distillation column is taken off at a rate of 68 wt. parts per hour and the residue only organic phase is refluxed. The reflux ratio R F was about 5. The effluent from the bottom of the distilla tion column 2 was taken off at a rate of 300 wt. parts per hour and washed with water at a rate of 100 wt.parts per hour in counterflow, and then the effluent was returned to the reactor 1. When the reaction distillation according to the aforesaid conditions reached a steady state, the composition of the effluent from the top of the distillation column was isobutylene 93.2 wt. , methanol 1.6 wt. , MTBE 0.46 wt. , dimethyl ether 0.32 wt. and water 4.4 wt. thus the conversion of MTBE was 99.7 and the by production ratio of dimethylether was 0.8 mol. . Methanol was recovered by distillation of the water washed effluent. The temperature of the liquid reaction mixture was 930C. Comparative Example The procedure of the above Example was repeated but without extraction of methanol from the bottoms liquid from the distillation column and with effluent being taken off from the top of the distillation column at almost the same rate as that of the MTBE supply. In the steady state the conversion of MTBE was 47.9 and the by production ratio of dimethyl ether per MTBE reacted was 2.9 . The temperature of the liquid reaction mixture was 950C.