# A method in the manufacture of steam cured inorganic insulating material of extremely low volumetric weight and having good heat insulating properties.

## Abstract
The invention relates to the manufacture of steam cured inorganic insulating material from an expandable and solidifiable aqueous starting material mixture containing hydraulic binder and siliceous material together wiih particles of steam cured totally hydrophobized aerated light weight concrete as ballast material.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method in the manufacture of steam cured, inorganic insulating material of extremely low volumetric weight and, having good insulating properties from an aqueous starting mixture containing one or more hydraulic binders, siliceous material and light weight ballast material while using pore forming agents to produce the porous structure, characterized, by using granules of totally hydrophobized steam cured aerated light weight concrete as the lightweight ballast material. 2. A method according to Claim 1, wherein the starting mixture also contains hydrophobizing agents. 3. A method according to Claim 1 or Claim 2, where in the hydrophobizin agent is silicon oil. 4. A method according to Claims 1 3, wherein the pore forming agent comprises a gas generatinq agent, such as aluminium metal powder. 5. A method according to Claims 1 4, wherein the light weight ballast material comprises crushed granules of wtcam cured acrated light weight concrete obtained by casting and expanding an expandable and solidifiable slurry of one or more hydraulic binders and siliceous material, and subsequently steam curing the cast and expanded mass, silicon oil being added to the slurry prior to casting. 6 7 A m ethod according to Claim 5, wherein the expandable and solidifiable aqueous starting mixture used is one which contains 15 50 per cent of hydraulic binder in the form of lime and or Portland cement and 10 70 per cent of siliceous material, 0.1 0.5 per cent of aluminium powder, and 5 30 per cent totally hydrophobized steam cured aerated light weight concrete in the form of. crushed particles with particle sizes of up to about 3 mm, calculated on the dry solids content of the starting mixture. 7. A method according to Claim 6, wherein the totally hydrophobized steam cured aerated light weight concrete contains 005 0.50 per cent of silicon oil. 8. A method according to Claims 6 or Claim 7, wherein the silicon oil is dimethyl. silicon oil. 9. A method according to Claims 1 8, wherein the volumetric weight of the finished steam cured inorganic insulating material is set to a value in the region of 135 250 kg m3.

## Description
A METHOD IN THE MANUFACTURE OF STEAM CURED INORGANIC INSULATING MATERIAL OF EXTREMELY LOW VOLUMETRIC WEIGHT AND HAVING GOOD HEAT iNSU LATING PROPERTIES The present invention relates to a method in the manufacture of steam cured inorganic insulating material of very low volumetric weight and having good heatinsulating properties The invention particularly relates to one such method in which the starting material is an aqueous, starting mixture which contains one or more hydraulic binders, siliceous silica containing material and light weight ballast material, and in which poreforming agents are used to produce a porous structure.The pore forming agent normally used is a substance which reacts with another substance in the mixture to produce a gas which causes the aqueous starting mixture to expand.In the majority of cases, this method presumes that the gasgenerating suhtance is introduced into the starting mixture as it is being prepared, and that the mixture is then poured into a mould and allowed to expand while rising to a suitable height. A particularly. common gasgenerating substance used in this context is powdered aluminium metal, which reacts with the alkaline constituents of the hydraulic binder to form hydrogen gas.Conceivably, the porous structure can be obtained by admixing the starting mixture with foam producing surfactants. In this latter case, it is usual practice to cast the mixture into a suitable form in which it can be cut after the aqueous starting mixture has been brought to foam. When the cast body has stabilized with respect to its dimensions, it can be allowed to set the cast body is then steam cured in an autoclave, into which highpressure steam is introduced. A method of the kind mentioned in the introduction is known to the art cf. Swedish Patent Specification No. 730605.9 2 . This known method teaches the use of lime ana or.portland cement as the hydraulic binder, silica sand as a siliceous material of high silica content, and powdered aluminium as the pore forming agent As will be unders tood, in order to produce products which have high thermal insulating properties it is necessary, in principle, to generate, or to introduce, large quantities of gas in bubble fornii aqueous starting mixture.It has been found difficult to manufacture a product of a volumetric weight in the region of 0.4 kg dm or less, because of the labile character of the expanded or ex panding mass and because of the tendency of the material to allow the gas which produces the porous structure to pass through said mass. According to the above Patent Specification, which relates in particular to the manufacture of aerated lightweight concrete, the aforementioned difficulties can be overcome by adding expanded perlite or expanded vermicu lite torthe aforesaid starting mixture. The additive is stirred into the aforementioned mixture, immediately prior to casting the mixture in a mould, the mixture being permitted to expand in the mould and solidify into a coherent body. The light weight additive is added in an amount of up to 5 50 per cent by weight, calculated on the dry solids content of the starting mixture. By varying the amount of dry solids present in the starting mixture, it is possible to vary the volumetric weight of the ultimate steam cured insulating material from about 0.4 kg dm3 downwards. One disadvantage found with the addition of the aforementioned ballast materials to the starting mixture is that the problem concerning the lability of the cast mass is still not satisfactorily solved and that the permeability of the mass to hydrogen gas is not reduced to the desired extent. A further disadvantage is that such material as perlite and vermiculite must be heated in order to be used as light weight ballast materials in the known method. Furthermore, expanded perlite and expanded vermiculite have hydrophilic properties, causing the minerals when expanded to absorb and retain water.This menas that a high percentage of the water present in an aqueous mixture of starting materials, including aerated light weight concrete raw materials and lightx weight ballast material, is absorbed and retained in saidballast material. It has now been found that the aforementioned disadvantages can be eliminated, or at least substantially overcome when the method recited in the introduction is carried out with a light weight ballast material comprising granules of totally hydrophobized steam cured aerated light weight concrete instead of expanded perlite or expanded vermiculite granules. As a result of this expedient a minor part of the water present in the aqueous starting mixture will be absorbed by the light weight ballast material. Since the water remains in the phase in which gas bubbles are formed during the casting and expansion process, the total amount of water required can be reduced to a relatively low level. This decreases the permeability of the mass to hydrogen gas, and the expanaing mass becomes less labile. As a result, the material obtains a more favourable combination of properties.The same quantity of material will provide, upon expansion to comparable volumetric weights, improved strength properties with respect to the product containing granules of totally hydrophobized steam cured aerated light weight concrete. Granules of hydrophobic aerated light weight con crete can be introduced into the starting mixture at a reduced. water content, which can be achieved by subjecting the granules to a dryina process. As a result of the hydrophobic quality of the aerated light weight concrete, the amount of water re absorbed upon contact with the aqueous starting mixture is considerably less, thereby rendering the combinion of properties of the finished material still more favourabLe. In accordance with one embodiment of the invention, the starting mixture may comprise starting mixtures which1 in addition to the usual starting materials, also include hydrophobizing agents. Examples of such hydrophobizing agents include siloxane oils, particularly dimethyl siloxane oil, although other available siloxane oils can be used in which an ethyl group and or phenyl group is present instead of the metSy I ground. The amoun 2of of organic silica compound added, particularly siloxane oil, can vary within a range of 0.05 0.50 per cent by weight calculated on the dry starting mixture. According to one embodiment of the invention, the light weight ballast material added to the starting mixture may comprise crushed granules of steam cured aerated light weight concrete obtained by casting and expanding an expandable and solidifiable slurry of hydraulic binder and siliceous material, and by subsequently steam curing the cast and expand ed mass, the slurry being admixed with a hydrophobtzing agent, such as silicon oil, prior to casting the mixture in a mould. In this respect, the hydraulic binder may comprise burnt lime and or portland cement, optionally admixed with low quality hydraulic slags. The siliceous material may suitably be finely ground quartz sand having a silica content of more than about 50 per cent. An expandable and solidifiable starting mixture for the manufacture of steam cured inorganic insulating material in accordance with the invention may contain 15 50 per cent of a hydraulic binder, in the form of lime and or portland cement, 10 70 per cent of a finely divided siliceous material, 0.1 0.5 per cent of a gas developing agent in the form of aluminium metal and as an additive in accordance with the invention 5 30 per cent of a totally hydrophobized steam cured aerated lightweight concrete in the form of crushed material, preferably of a particle size up to about 3 mm. The aforementioned percentages relate to amounts by weight calcula ted on the weight of the dry solids content of the starting mixture. By way of summary it can be said that it has been surprisingly found possible without difficulty, to manufacture a steam cured inorganic insulating material of volumetric weights between 150 and 250 kg m3 without add ing light weight ballast material e.g. expanded vermicu lite of such low volumetric weight that the properties of the insulating material are substantially determined by the additive. By using instead granules of hydrophobized steam cured aerated light weight concrete, preferably crushed aerated light weight concrete, which in itself does not have a lower volumetric weight than the ultimate steam cured aerated light weight concrete, it is possible to contain a product possessing extremely good heat insulating properties.The material is also much stronger than products which contain expanded perlite andZor vermiculite and produced in accordance with known methods. Consequently, the method according to the invention is also suitable for the manufacture of steam cured inorganic insulating material possessing good heat insulating properties, in the form of blocks, reinforced slabs, upon which high strength demands are placed. As a result of the obligatory addition of granules of totally hydrophobized material the finished steam cured product exhibits good hydrophilic properties, and thus the good heatinsulating properties of the product are not negatively effected under unfavourable conditions, such as high humiditty, rain etc. Exemple 1 Steam cured, inorganic insulating material was manufactured from burnt lime, Portland cement and quartz sand in accordance with the following composition Sand ground to 2500 cm2 g 80 kg burnt lime ............... ................. 15 kg Portland cement ................ ........ 75 kgEMI6.1 tb aluminium SEP powder SEP SEP .................... SEP 10 SEP kg tb gypsum SEP semihydrate tb granules of crushed steam cured, hydrophobized aerated light weight concrete with reduced water content obtained by dry ing 3 mm ....... 20 kg water .......................... 185 kg The estimated volumetric weight of the resultant aerated light weight concrete with the given quantity of aluminium powder added was 200 kg m3. Subsequent to steam curing the aerated light weight concrete for five hours at a pressure of 9 atmospheres over pressure there was obtained a product which possessed the following properties Dry volumetric weight, kg dm3 .......... 0.20 compression strength, kgfcm3 ........... 10 coefficient of thermal conductivity W m C................... 0.063 Example 2 Steam cured inorganic insulating material was manufactured from burnt lime, Portland cement and quartz sand in accordance with the following composition Sand ground to 2500 cm2 g ............. 60 kg burnt lime .......................... 10 kg Portland cement .................. 60 kgEMI7.1 tb aluminium SEP powder SEP .............. SEP SEP 10 SEP kg tb gypsum SEP semihydrate tb granules of crushed steam cured totally hydrophobized aerated light weight concrete 3 mm . 10 kg water ................... .......... 180 kg The estimated. volumetric weight of the resultant product with the given amount of aluminium powder added was 150 kg m3. Subsequent to being steam cured for five hours at a pressure of 9 atmospheres over pressure there was obtained a product which possessed an extremely favourable combination of high compression strength and thermal insulating properties Dry volumetric weight, kg dm3 .... 0.16 compression strength, kpZcm2 5 5 coefficient of thermal conductivity Win C 0.054 Exemple 3 Samples of steam cured inorganic insulating material having the following volumetric weights and the properties set forth in the Table below were prepared in a manner similar to that recited in Examples 1 and 2 Volumetric Compression A value weight strength Op kg m3 kpZcm2 W m C 160 5 0.054 175 8 0.057 195 9 0.059 225 12 0.065 230 15 0.071 The totally hydrophobized steam cured aerated lightweight concrete, the crushed granules 3 mm of which were used as light weight ballast material, was obtained from an aqueous starting material mixture of the following composition Sand ................... .......... 50 kg Portland cement ................ 28 kg burnt lime ................. .. .. 12 kg waste sludge .......... 8 8 kg aluminium powder and regulator CaSO4 1 2 H2 0 2 kg The resultant mixture, which weighed 100 kg, was ad mixed with 55 litres of water and 0.22 per cent of di methylsiloxane oil having a viscosity of 1000 centistokes, calculated on the weight of the dry starting mixture. The resultant slurry was used as a casting mass. The sand contained quartz and had a silica content of 70 80 per cent. The lime used comprised finely ground unslaked lime having a CaO content of 88 92 per cent. The cement was of the normal Portland cement type. The alumi nium powder had a thin flake structure and contained approximately 90 95 per cent of free aluminium. Manufac ture was carried out in the following manner. The quartz containing sand was wet ground in a ball mill to form a comparatively readily flowable slurry having a high degree of fineness. The sand slurry was then thoroughly mixed with accurately measured quantities of cement, lime, waste sludge and additional water, to form a mass of suitable consistency. Subsequent to steam curing the mass in an autoclave for 12 hours at a pressure of 10 atmospheres over pressure, there was obtained a product having a volumetric weight of 470 kg m , which was crushed to gra nules of particle size 3 mm, which were then dried.