# Thermoplastic resin composition.

## Abstract
A thermoplastic resin composition comprising a crystal line polyolefin such as an ethylene propylene block copoly mer, an ethylene alpha propylene rubber, such as EPR or EPDM, and particulate inorganic filler such as talc, mica or cystalline calcium silicate has improved properties, particu larly the property of low temperature impact strength, without loss of mechanical strength.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A thermoplastic composition characterized in that it comprises a from 20 to 70 Wt. of a crystalline polyolefin b from 20 to 50 Wt. of an ethylene alpha olefin copolymer rubber and c from 1 to 30 Wt. of a particulate inorangic filler material, said filler material being present in the composition in an amount sufficient to prevent substantial decrease in rigidity due to the presence of said copolymer rubber. 2. A thermoplastic resin composition according to claim 1, in which the crystalline polyolefin has a melt flow index of from 0.5 to 20 g lO min. 3. A thermoplastic resin compostion according to claim 1 or claim 2, in which the crystalline polyolefin is a crystalline ethylene propylene copolymer. 4. A thermoplastic resin composition according to claim 3, in which the ethylene propylene copolymer is a block copolymer wherein the ethylene content is less than 10 Wit. 5. A thermoplastic resin composition according to claim 4, in which the ethylenepropylene block copolymer is present in an amount from 40 to 60 Wt.Z 6. A thermoplastic resin composition according to any of claims l to 5, in which the copolymer rubber is EPR. 7. A thermoplastic resin according to any of claims 1 to 5, in which the copolymer rubber is EPDM. 8. A thermoplastic resin according to any of claims 1 to 7, in which copolymer rubber is present in an amount of from 20 to 40 Wt.Z 9. A thermoplastic resin composition according to any of claims 1 to 8, in which the particulate inorganic filler material is one or more of talc, mica and fibrous crystalline calcium silicate, 10. A thermoplastic resin composition according to claim 9. in which the talc has an average particle size diameter of 0.5 to 15 microns, the mica has an average particle size diameter of 1 to 200 microns, and the fibrous crystalline calcium silicate material has an average particle size diameter of 1 to 100 microns. 11. A thermoplastic molded article characterized in that it comprises a from 40 to 60 Wt.X of an ethylene propylene block copolymer having an ethylene content of 10 Wt. or less and a melt index of from 0.5 to 20 g 10 min. b from 20 to 40 Wt. of an ethylene alpha olefin copolymer rubber selected from EPR and EPDM containing from 20 to 90 Wt. of ethylene and c from 5 to 25 Xt, of an inorganic filler material selected from talc, mica, and fibrous crystalline calcium silicate.

## Description
THERMOPLASTIC RESIN COMPOSITION The present invention relates to a thermoplastic resin composition which exhibits improved properties, including low temperature impact resistance, moldability, and paintability. More particularly, the present invention relates to a thermoplastic resin composition comprising crystalline polyolefin, ethylene alpha olefin copolymer rubber, and particulate inorganic filler. Heretofore, crystalline polypropylene has been used in a variety of applications because of its outstanding chemical resistance and mechanical properties. For application areas where high impact resistance is required, crystalline ethylene propylene block copolymer has been used. This block copolymer has improved impact resistance at normal temperature, but its low temperature impact resistance has limited the scope of its use. moreover, its inherent physical properties are not particularly suited for certain finishing techniques such as painting, plating, and ad hesion, and dimensional accuracy in molding. Other resins, such as poly urethane resins formed by reactive injection molding have been substitut ed for polypropylene resins in certain applications because of their im proved properties, particularly their low temperature impact resistance. This substitute, however, is expensive and unreclaimable and requires a longer molding cycle time. Polypropylene blends which can be processed by standard injection molding in order to improve the low temperature im pact resistance of crystalline ethylene propylene block copolymers have been proposed. These blends exhibit improved low temperature impact resistance, but not to the degree necessary to compete with polyurethane resin. The purpose of the present invention is to provide a thermoplastic resin composition having improved properties, particularly low tempera ture impact strength. Surprisingly, it has been found that certain crystalline polyole fins can be improved by incorporating therein a polyolefin with ethylene alpha olefin copolymer rubber, and an effective amount of a particulate or fibrous material such as talc, mica, or fibrous crystalline calcium silicate having a high aspect ratio at specific ratios. Specifically, the incorporation of the copolymer rubber and particulate or fibrous ma terial improves the copolymer s low temperature impact resistance, fin ishing and moldability properties without sacrificing mechanical proper ties. Other properties improved include dimensional stability in molding, paintability, reduced warpage, and improved weld strength. The composition of this invention comprises 1 from 20 to 79 Wt. z of crystalline polyolefin preferably having a melt flow index of 0.5 to 20 g 10 minutes, 2 from 20 to 50 Wt. of ethylene alpha olefin copolymer rubber, and 3 from 1 to 30 Wt. of a particulate inorganic filler material such as talc perferably having an average particle diameter of 0.5 to 15 microns , mica preferably having an average particle diameter of 1 to 200 microns , of fibrous crystalline calcium silicate preferably having an average particle diameter of 1 to 100 microns , the filler material being present in an amount sufficient to prevent significant decrease in rigidity due to the presence of the copolymer rubber. The polyolefin used in this invention may include high pressure, low density polyethylene LDPE , lowpressure linear low density polyethylene L LDPE , medium low pressure high density polyethylene HDPE , crystal line polypropylene, crystalline ethylene propylene block or random copolymer containing 20 Wt. of ethylene, polybutene l, ethylene i butenecop olymer, or ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer containing less than 20 WT. of vinyl acetate, or a mixture thereof, and similar type polyolefins.The preferred polyolefin is d . crystalline ethylene propylene coppolymer more preferablyablock copolymer containing less than 20 Wt. of ethylene, most preferably less than 10 Wt. ethylene, The polyolefin component preferably has a melt flow index MI of 0,5 to 20g 10 minutes, Itis present in the composition in an amount between 20 and 79Wt. . If the amount of the polyolefin is less than 20Wt. , the resulting composition decreases in softening point which results in poor moldability due to sticking to the mold. On the other hand, if more than 79 Wt.X of the polyolefin is present, the resulting compositn does not exhibit improved low temperature impact resistance. Preferably the ethylene propylene block copolymer is present in an amount of from 40 to 60 Wt. . The ethylene alpha olefin copolymer rubber is exemplified by ccpoly mer rubbers of ethylene and alpha olefin such as propylene, butene i, and hexene l and terpolymer rubbers EPDMD of ethylene proylene ndnon conjugated diene, as the third components such as ethylidene norbornene and dicyclopentadiene. Preferred copolymer rubbers include ethylenepropylene copolymer rubber EPR and EPDM. These ethylene alphaolefin copolymer rubbers typically contain from about 20 to about 90 Wt. of ethylene and have a Mooney viscosity JIS K 6300 ML 1 4 1000C of 10 to 120, and are contained in an amount of 20 to 50 Wt.Z in the composition of this invention.If the content is less than 20 Wit. the low temperature impact resistance and finishing properties of the resulting composition are not significantly improved. On the other hand, if the content is more than 50 Wt. , the resulting composition exhibits poor moldability properties due to its lowered softening point. The final product also exhibits poor rigidity. Preferably from 20 to 40 Wit. of copolymer rubber is present.The particulate inorganic filler used for the composition of this invention includes talc having an average particle diameter of 0.5 to 15 micr ons, mica having an average particle diameter of 1 to 200 microns, or fibrous crystalline calcium silicate having an average particle diameter of 1 to 100 microns. Preferable among them are those which have ahigh aspect ratio. These fillers are effective to prevent the composition from decreasing in rigidity due to the addition of ethylene alphaolefin copolymer. A filler having an aspect ratio higher than 3is preferable.The talc, mica, or fibrous crystalline calcium silicate is contained in an amount of 1 to 30 Wit. in the composition. If the content is less than 1 Wit. the composition produces products having poor rigidity, and if the content is more than 30Wt.X, the resulting composition exhibits poor moldability. Preferably from 5 to 25 Rut, of filler is present. The composition of this invention can be obtained by mixing the components in the molten state with a high speed intensive mixer, banbury mixer, rollrsingle screw extruder, twin screw extruder, etc. During or prior to mixing, additives including stabilizers such as antioxidant and UV absorber, dispersion agent, slip agent, anti static agent, pigment, etc. may be incorporated into the composition. The thermoplastic resin composition of this invention can be formed in to thermoplastic molded articles and is outstanding in moldability and demolding in injection molding. It can also be processed by extrusion molding and blow molding. The resulting molded products are superior in low temperature impact resistance, finishing properties such as painting dimensional stability, warpage and shrinkage, and weld strength. They can be used in various application areas, and are particularly useful for automobile bumpers. The invention is illustrated by the following examples, in which i8 Wt, X. The performance of the composition was determinedby the following test methods 1 MI ASTM D 1238 2 Flexural modulus ASTM D 790 3 Izod impact strength ASTM D 256 Determined on a 3.2 mm thick specimen with a notch. Molding shrinkage Determined on a molded specimen measuring 350 x 100 x 3 mm, after conditioning in a constant temperature room at 200C for 24 hours. 5 Coating peel strength Determined on a molded specimen, measuring 70 x 120 x 3 mm, coated with a chlorinated polypropylene primer and urethane top paint with baking. The film in 10 mm width was peeled off at 1800 using an Instron type universal tester. 6 Warpage Determined on a molded disc specimen, measuring 150 X 1.5 mm, with a direct center gate, which is placed on a flat plate after conditioning in a constant temperature room at 200C and 65S RH for 24 hours. Warpage S H 1.5 iSO x 100 where H is the height of warpage. 7 Weld strength retention Determined on a No. 1 dumbbell specimen conforming to ASTM D 638 which was molded using a mold for weld strength test piece. The specimen was subjected to tensile test at a pulling rate of 50 mm min. on an Instron type universal tester. The weld strength retention was obtained from the yield strength.Example 1 The compositions of this invention were prepared by mixing the following components using a high speed intensive mixer according to the formulations shown in Table 1.Crystalline ethylene propylene block copolymer Ethylene content 7 Wt. MI 9.0 for Experiment Nos. 1 to 3 and 9 to 113, ,MI 15.0 for Experiment Nos. II. 6 to 8 Ethylene propylene random copolymer Ethylene content 2 Wt. , MI 9.0 EPR Ethylene content 75 Wt. , Mooney viscosity 20 for Experiment Nos. 1 to 5, 9, 10 , Ethylene content 75, Mooney viscosity 70 for Experiment Nos. 4 to 73 EPDM Ethylene content 50 Wit. 1 Mooney viscosity 105 HDPE Density 0.960, MI 0.3 LDPE Density 0.912, MI 9.0 Talc Average particlediameter 25 microns The resulting mixture was then melted and kneaded by a twin screw kneader at a cylinder temperature of 200 to 2500C and finally pelletized. The resulting pellets were injection molded into test specimens under the molding conditions of 2300C and 900 kg cm2. The test specimens were measured for flexural modulus, izod impact strength, molding shrinkage, coating peel strength, warpage1 and weld strength retention.The results obtained are shown in Table 1. Experiment Nos. 1 to 8 For purpose of comparison, a composition containing less than 20 of EPR, a composition containing no talc, and crystalline ethylene propylene block copolymer alone were tested. The results are shown in Table 1. Experiment Nos. 9 to 11 Example 2 The compositions of this invention were prepared by mixing the fel lowing components as in Example 1 according to the formulations shown inTable 2.Crystalline ethylene propylene block copolymer Ethylene content 7 Wt. , MI 9.0 EPR Ethylene content 75 Wt. , Mooney viscosity 20 HDPE Density 0.960, MI 0.3 Mica Average particle diameter 30 microns Table 1Experiment No. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 Ethylene propylene 55 50 40 60 50 50 60 60 60 100 block copolymer Ethylene propylene 60 random copolymer HDPE 10 20 LDPE 10 EPR 25 30 40 30 30 30 30 10 20 EPDM 30 Talc 20 20 20 10 10 10 10 10 30 Flexural modulus 13 12.5 11 9 9.5 9.5 8.5 9 19.5 7.5 11 X 1000 kg cm2 Izod impact at 20 C 69 78 85 80 70 75 70 85 12 70 7 strength kg cm cm at 30 C 35 40 65 65 40 60 45 70 3 25 4Molding shrinkage 0.5 0.6 0.5 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.8 1.8 1.8Coating peel strength 1100 1300 1600 1300 1200 1300 1200 1300 600 650 300 g 10 gm Warpage 5.5 5.0 5.0 5.0 5.0 5.0 5.0 5.0 6.0 7.0 7.0Weld strength 40 50 50 50 50 50 50 50 40 80 90 retention Comparative Example The resulting compositions were molded into test specimens and their physical properties were measured as in Example 1. The results obtained are shown in Table 2. Experiment Nos. 12 to 14 For the purpose of comparison, compositions containing less than 20 of EPR and a composition containing no mica were tested. The results are shown in Table 2. Experiment Nos. 15 to 17 Table 2Experiment No.Ethylene propylene 60 50 40 60 70 60 block copolymer EPR 20 30 40 10 10 10HDPE 30Mica S 20 20 20 30 20 Flexural modulus 15.5 13 12 20.5 18.2 9.1 x 1000 kg cm2 Izod impact at 20 C 52 75 85 15 15 65 strength kg cm cm at 30 C 10 37 68 3 3 7.5Molding shrinkage 0.6 0.5 0.4 0.4 0.4 2.5Coating peel strength 1000 1200 1600 600 600 550 g 10 cm Warpage 2.0 1.5 1.0 1.5 2.5 9Weld strength 50 50 50 40 50 80 retention Comparative examples Example 3 The same compositions as in Example 2 were prepared in the same manner as in Example 2, except that the mica was replaced by fibrous crystalline calcium silicate trade name WolQastonite having an averege particle diameter of 9 microns. The resulting compositions were molded into test specimens and their physical properties were measured as in Exatnple 1. The results obtained are shown in Table 3. Experiment Nos. 18 to 20 For the purpose of comparison, a composition containing less than 20S of EPR was tested. The results are shown in Table 3. Experiment No. 21 Table 3Experiment No. 18 19 20 21 Ethylene propylene 60 50 40 60 block copolymer EPR 5 20 30 40 10Wollastonite 20 20 20 30Flexural modulus 14.5 11 11 19.5 x 1000 kg cm2 Izod impact at 200C 55 80 85 14 strength kg cm cm at 30 C 13 43 70 4Molding shrinkage 0.9 0.8 0.7 0.9Coating peel strength 800 1300 1600 600 g 10 cm Warpage 4.0 4.0 4.0 4.0Weld strength 80 80 80 70 retention Comparative example A property data in Tables 1, 2, and 3 reveals that in all experiments the low temperature impact strengths of the compositions of the present invention were markedly superior to those of the other composi tions Experiments 9 11, 15 17, and 21 . The same is true for the coating peel strength of the compositions. Moreover, the molding shrinkage and warpage of the improved compositions were at least as good, with two exceptions Experiments 15 and 16 , as the comparison composition, and in most cases, were better. In summary, the composition of the present invention comprising a crystalline polyolefin, an ethylene alpha olefin copolymer rubber and inorganic filler material produoes a product having superior properties than prior crystalline polyolefins,