# New phenylethylamines, process for their preparation, and pharmaceutical compositions containing them.

## Abstract
Phenethylamine compounds useful as anti phlogistic, anti arthritic, anti pyretic and analgesic agents, of formula I

## Claims
PATENT CLAIMS 1. A compound of formula IEMI15.1 Wherein R1 is hydrogen, halogen, hydroxy, nitro, C1 4 alkyl, C1 4 alkoxy, C1 4 alkylthio, lower acyloxy or lower acylamino,R2 is C3 8 cycloalkyl or a phenyl radical,R3 is hydrogen or C1 4 alkyl, R4 and R5 are the same or different and are hydrogen, C1 4 alkyl or C7 11 phenylalkyl, or R4 and R5, together with the nitrogen atom to which they are bound, form a 1 pyrrolidinyl, piperidino, or morpholino radical, or R4 and R5 together form a hydrolysable methylene moiety and R6 is hydrogen or a hydrolysable acyl radical or an acid addition sat thereof. 2. A compound of claim 1 wherein R4 and R5 are the same or different and are hydrogen, C34 alkyl or C7 11 phenylalkyl, or R4 and R5, together with the nitrogen atom to which they are bound, form a l pyrrolidinyl, piperidino, or morpholino radical, and R6 is hydrogen. 3. A compound of claim 2 wherein R1 is para to the groupOR6 and R1 is hydrogen, methyl or halogen, R2 is cycloalkyl, phenyl or phenyl substituted by halogen, alkyl or alkoxy. 4. A compound of claim 3 wherein R2 is phenyl. 5. A compound of claim 1 which is 2 2 chloro 5 hydroxy4 biphenylyl ethylamine. 6. A process for the production of a compound bf formulaI which comprises reducing a compound of formula IIEMI16.1 in which R1 to R6 are as defined in claim and where required appropriately acylating any resulting product having a free hydroxy or amino group and or condensing any resulting compound wherein R4 and RS are hydrogen with an appropriate aldehyde or ketone. 7. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound any one of claims 1 to 5 in free base form or in pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt form in association with a acceptable diluent or carrier.

## Description
New phenylethylamines, process for their preparaticn, and pharmaceutical compositions containing them The present invention relates to new phenyl ethylamines, their preparation and pharmaceutical compositions containing them. In accordance with the invention there are provided ne compounds of formula IEMI1.1 wherein R is hydrogen, halogen, hydroxy, nitro, C1 4 alkyl, C1 4 alkoxy, C1 4 alkylthio, lower acyloxy or lower acylamino,R2 is C3 8 cycloalkyl or a phenyl radical,R3 is hydrogen or C1 4 alkyl, R4 and R5 are the same or different and are hydrogen, C1 4 alkyl or C7 11 phenylalkyl, or R4 and R5, together with the nitrogen atom to which they are bound, form a 1 pyrrolidinyl, pipeidino, or morpholino radical, orR4 and R5 together form a hydrolysable methylene moiety andR6 is hydrogen or a hydrolysable acyl radical. Any alkyl, alkoxy or alkylthio radical mentioned herein has preferably 1 2 carbon atoms or espe cially one carbon atom. Halogen means fluorine, chlorine, bromine or iodine. When R1 is halogen, this is preferably chlorine or bromine or especially chlorine. When R1 is lower acyloxy or lower acylamino, the acyl moiety may be derived from an aliphatic carboxylic acid containing up to 4 carbon atoms, preferably 2 carbon atoms. R1 is preferably halogen or alkyl. R1 is conveniently para with respect to the group OR6. When R2 is cycloalkyl, this is preferably cyclopentyl or cyclohexyl, especially cyclohexyl.When R2 is a phenyl radical this is conveniently an unsubstituted phenyl radical or a phenyl radical containing one or more substituents selected from halogen, hydroxy, nitro, amino, trifluoromethyl, C14 alkyl and C1 4 alkoxy. Preferably only one substituent is present, conveniently in the para position of the phenyl radical. Preferably the substituent is selected from halogen, preferably chlorine or fluorine, alkyl or alkoxy. R2 is preferably a phenyl radical, especially an unsubstituted phenyl radical. Preferably R3 is hydrogen. When R4 or R5 is phenylalkyl, this preferably contains 7 or 8 carbon atoms or especially 7 carbon atoms. Conveniently,R4 and R are the same or 5 different and are hydrogen, C1 4 alkyl or C7 11 phenylalkyl, or toget ier with the nitrogen atom to which they are bound, form a 1 pyrrolidinyl, piperidino, or morpholino radical. R4 and R5 are preferably the same, and are each preferably alkyl or more preferably hydrogen. When R4 and R are different, R is desirably hydrogen. When R4 and R5 together are a hydrolysable methylene moiety, this is a physiologically acceptable hydrolysable moiety, which may be substituted, e.g. alkylidene, cycloalkylidene or arylalkylidene. It is to be appreciated that the compound may be a compound of formula I wherein R4 and R5 are each hydrogen in the form of aSchiff s base. Thus the radical may be derived from a non toxic aldehyde or ketone and ray for example have the formula CR7 8 wherein R7 and R8 are the same or different and are hydrogen, C1 4 alkyl, a phenyl radical or z phenylalkyl radical, or R7 and R8 together are C3 6 alkylene or C3 6 alkenylene. The phenylalkyl radical may be phenylalkyl of 7 to 11 carbon atoms ignoring any carbon containing substituents , unsubst tuted cr substituted in the phenyl ring. When the phenyl radical or the phenylalkyl radical is substituted In the phenyl ring, there is preferably one substituent, e.g. halogen of atomic number from 9 to 35, hydroxy, nitro, amino, trifluoromethyl, C1 4 alkyl or C1 4 alkoxy. Conveniently R7 and R8 are each alkyl. Alternatively R7 is hydrogen and R8 is for example alkyl or a phenyl radical such as phenyl or o hydroxyphenyl. When R6 is a hydrolysable acyl radical, this is an acyl group which is hydrolyzed under physiological conditions to form a non toxic acid and may be for example of formu a COR9 wherein R9 is alkyl of 1 to 12 carbon atoms, cycloalkyl of 3 to 7 carbon ators, phenyl, phenylalkyl of 7 to 12 carbon atoms, phenyl or phenylalkyl of 7 to 12 carbon atoms monosubstituted in the phenyl ring by alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms7 or mono or independently disubstituted in the phenyl ring by halogen of atomic number of from 9 to 35, or mono or independently di or independently trisubstituted in the phenyl ring br alkoxy of 1 to 4 carbon atoms. R6 is preferably hydrogen. In a group of compounds R1 is para to the group OR6 and R1 is hydrogen, methyl or halogen,R2 is cycloalkyl, phenyl or phenyl substituted by halogen, alkyl or alkoxy, preferably phenyl, R4 and R5 are the same or different and are hydrogen, C1 4 alkyl or C7 11 phenylalkyl or R4 and R5, together with the nitrogen atom to which they are bound,form a l pyrrolidinyl, piperidino or morpholino radical and R6 is hydrogen. The present invention provides a process for the production of a compound of formula I as defined above, which comprises reducing a compound of formula II EMI6.1 in which R1 to R 6 are as defined above any where required appropriately acylating any resulting product having a free hydroxy group and or condensing any resulting compound wherein R4 and R5 are hydrogen with an appropriate aldehyde or ketone. The reduction process may be affected in conventional manner of the reduction of the carbonyl group of an amide to a methylene group, for example with diborane. Suitable reaction temperatures are from 0 to 100 . The acylation and the condensation processes may be effected in knon manner. The compounds of formula I may be isolatcd from the reaction mixture and purified in known manner.The compounds of formula I may exist in salt form.The free base forms may be converted into acid addition salt forms in the usual manner and vice versa. A suitable acid for salt formation is hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid or oxalic acid. When there is a hydroxy group present, the free form may be converted into an anionic salt form, such as a sodium salt. The starting materials of formula II ny be produced bj reacting a compound of formula IIIEMI7.1 wherein R1, R2 and R3 are as defined above, with an compound of formula IVEMI7.2 wherein R4 and R5 are as defined above, and where required appropriately acylating any resulting phenol product and where required condensing any resulting primary amine product with an aldehyde or ketone. The processes are conveniently effected in conventional manner if necessary protecting radicals ich may interfere in the reaction or when selectivity is required. Insofar as the production of any starting material is not particularly described, these are known or may be produced in conventional manner or in a manner analogous to that described above. In the folloing non limitative Examples all temperatures are indicated in degrees Centigrade. EXAMPLE 1 2 2 chloro 5 hydroxy 4 bephenylyl ehtylamine 184 ml of a solution of diborane ccmplexed with tetrahydrofuran are added dropwise to a cooled solution of 14.8 g 2 2 chloro 5 hydroxy 4 biphenylyl acetamide in 200 ml tetrahydrofuran. The reaction mixture is boiled for 16 hours and then poured onto ice HCl. The aqueous phase is extracted with methylene chloride and the organic phases are combined, dried over Na2S04 and evaporated. The residue is dissolved in ethyl acetate, ethereal HC1 is added and the solution is evaporated, whereby the hydrochloride of the title compound is obtained. It melts at 206 207 after crystallization from ethanol ether. The starting material may be obtained as follows A solution of 17.5 g 5 chloro 2,3 dihydro6 phenyl benzofuran 2 one in tetrahydrofuran is added with stirring to 100 ml of a saturated aqueous ammonia solution. The reaction mixture is stirred at room temperature overnight and evaporated. The residue is evaporated with ethanol and toluene and dried under high vacuum to yield 2 2 chloro 5 hydroxy 4 biphenylyl aoetamide M.pt l23l240 after crystallization from ethyl acetate ether . From the appropriate compounds of formula II, the following compounds of formulaEMI9.1 may be obtained in analogous manner to Example 1 EMI10.1 Ex. SEP R2 SEP R1 SEP R3 SEP R tb SEP 2 SEP phenyl SEP Cl SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP 266 267 SEP 3 tb SEP 3 SEP cyclohexyl SEP Cl SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP 210 212 SEP 3 tb SEP 4 SEP cyclohexyl SEP Cl SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP 205 206 SEP 3 tb SEP 5 SEP cyclohexyl SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP SEP tb SEP 6 SEP phenyl SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP 2180 SEP SEP 2 SEP tb SEP 7 SEP phenyl SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP 140 142 SEP tb 8 SEP phenyl SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP 146 147 SEP tb SEP 9 SEP cyclohexyl SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP 142 143 SEP 3 SEP tb SEP 10 SEP phenyl SEP Cl SEP H SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP 127 SEP 3 tb SEP 11 SEP 4 Cl phenyl SEP Cl SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP 1780 SEP 3 tb SEP 12 SEP 4 OH phenyl SEP Cl SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP 202 SEP 3 tb SEP 13 SEP 4 CH3 phenyl SEP Cl SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP 234 236 SEP 3 tb SEP 14 SEP 4 F phenyl SEP Cl SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP 6 SEP 4 SEP 5 tb SEP 15 SEP 4 NH2 phenyl SEP Cl SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP 300 SEP 6 tb 16 SEP phenyl SEP F SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP 248 SEP 2 SEP tb SEP 17 SEP cyclohexyl SEP H SEP H SEP SEP H SEP H SEP 206 207 SEP 3 tb SEP 18 SEP cyclohexyl SEP Cl SEP H SEP benzyl SEP H SEP 251 253 SEP 3 tb SEP 19 SEP cyclohexyl SEP H SEP H SEP isopropy SEP H SEP 206 207 SEP 3 SEP tb SEP 20 SEP cyclohexyl SEP Cl SEP H SEP CH2 2 O CH2 2 142 143 tb 1 free base unless oL hense specified 2 hydrobromide salt 3 hydrochloride hydrogen oxalate 5 sintering point dihydrobromideEXAMPLE 22 2 5 acetoxy 2 chloro 4 biphenylyl ethyl amine 4 g 2 2 chloro 5 hydroxy 4 biphenylyl ethylamine are dissolved in 30 ml trifluoroacetic acid with stirring and cooling and 1.5 ml of acetyl chloride are added dropwise within 2 minutes. The reaction mixture is stirred for 2 hours at room temperature and evaporated twice in the presence of ether. The residue is dissolved in ether and ethereal HCl is added until the mixture is at pH 2, whereupon the hydrochloride of the title compound is obtained.It melts at 1850. EXAMPLE 23 N 2 2 chloro 5 hydroxy 4 biphenylyl ethyl 2 hydroxy benzylidenamine 4 g 2 2 chloro 5 hydroxy 4 biphenylyl etllylamine, 1,8 ml salicylic aldehyde and 5 mg ptoluenesulfonic acid in 150 ml toluene are boiled for 3 hours. The reaction mixture is filtered and evaporated to yield the title compound. It melts at 1450. The compounds of formula I are exhibit pharmacolo gical activity in animals. In particular, the compounds of formula I inhibit oedemas and inflammations, as indicated in standard tests, for example by an inhibition of ooderna formation in the carrageon paw oedema test in rats cn p.o.administration of from 1 to 60 mg kg animal body weight of the compounds. The compounds are therefore incicated for use as anti phlogistic agents. Additionally7 the compounds of forrula I exhibit anti arthritic activity, as indicated in standard tests, for example, by an inhibition of swelling in the Freund adjuvant arthritis latent period test in rats on p.o. administration of from 1 to 100 mg kg animal body weight of the compounds. The compounds are therefore further indicated for use as anti arthritic agents. Additionally, the compounds of formula I exhibit anti pyretic activity, as indicated by a reduction of fever produced by yeast in the yeast fever test on administration of 10 to 100 mg kg p.o. of the compounds to rats. The conpounds are therefore further indicated for use as anti pyretic agents. For all the above mentioned uses an indicated daily dose is from about 100 to about 1000 mg, conveniently administered in divided doses 2 to 4 times a day in unit dosage form containing from about 25 to about 500 mg, or in sustained release form. Additionally, the compounds of formula I c hihit analgesic activity as indicated in standard tests, for example, by an inhibition of the phenyl benzoquincne syndrome in mice on p.o. administration of from 3 to 50 mg kg animal body weight of the compounds anc in theRandall Sellito test in rats on p.o. administration of from 3 to 100 mg kg animal boy weight of the compounds. The compounds are therefore further indicated fcr use as analgesic agents. For this indication, an indicated daily dose is from about 103 to 350 me, conveniently administered in divided doses 2 to 4 times a d in unit dosage form containing fron about 25 to about 175 mg, or in sustained release form. The compound of Example 1 is particularly in teresting. The compounds may be administered in pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt form. These salt forms exhibit the same order of activity as the free base forms. The present invention also provide a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of formula I, in free base form or in pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt form in association with a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent or carrier. These compositions may be formulated in conventional manner so as to be for example a solution, a capsule or tablet.