# Process for preparing an aminoethylthiomethylimidazole.

## Abstract
4 2 Aminoethylthiomethyl 5 methylimidazole, an inter mediate for the preparation of cimetidine, is prepared by the reaction of a 4,5 dimethylimidazole in which one methyl group is substituted by a hydroxy or lower alkoxy group or a chlorine or bromine atom, with a substituted ethyleneimino compound that is an N 2 hydroxyethyl alkylthiocarbox amide, an N 2 mercaptoethyl alkylcarboxamide, or a 2 alkyl 2 thiazoline.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for the preparation of 4 2 aminoethyl thiomethyl 5 methylimidazole, in which an imidazole of the structureEMI11.1 where W is a hydroxy group or an alkoxy group having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms or a chlorine or bromine atom, is reacted with a compound of the structure XCH2CH2NY9Z, R where X is a hydroxy group, Y is H, and Z is a sulphur atom or X is a mercapto group, Y is H and Z is an oxygen atom or Y is a double bond and X and Z together represent a sulphur atom and R is an alkyl group having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms. 2. A process according to claim 1, where R is a methyl or ethyl group. 3. A process according to Claim 2, where W is a hydroxy group. 4. A process according to any preceding claim, where the reaction is effected with concentrated hydrochloric acid. 5. A process according to any preceding claim, where the ethyleneimino compound is an N 2 hydroxyethyl alkylthiocarboxamide. 6. A process according to Claim 5, where the thiocarboxamide has been prepared by the reaction of hydrogen sulphide with a 2 alkyl 2 oxazoline in the presence of an unreactive organic base. 7. A process according to Claim 6, where the 2 alkyl 2 oxazoline employed has been obtained by cyclisation of an N 2 hydroxyethyl alkylcarboxamide without removal of the water eliminated on cyclisation. 8. A process according to any one of Claims 1 to 4, where the ethyleneimino compound is an N 2 mercaptoethyl alkylcarboxamide. 9. A process according to any one of Claims 1 to 4, where the ethyleneimino compound is a 2 alkyl 2 thiazoline. 10. A process according to Claim 9, where the thiazoline has been prepared by the cyclodehydration of an N 2 hydroxyethyl alkylthiocarboxamide.

## Description
PROCESS FOR PREPARING AN AMINOETHYLTHIOMETHYLIMIDAZOLE This invention relates to a process for preparing 4 2 aminoethylthiomethyl 5 methylimidazole, a chemical intermediate used in the commercial production of the drug cimetidine. British Patent 1,338,169 discloses the preparation of 4 2 aminoethylthiomethyl 5 methylimidazole by the condensation of cysteamine with 4 hydroxymethyl 5 methylimidazole, and the conversion of the product to N cyano N methyl N 2 5 4 methyl 4 5 imidazolylmethylthio ethyl guanidine cimetidine is described in British Patent 1,397,436. A route used for the commercial production of cysteamine employs ethanolamine 1 as starting material and proceeds in four steps through N hydroxyethylpropionamide 2 , 2 ethyl 2 oxazoline 3 and N mercaptoethylpropionamide 4 to cysteamine 5 , as described in USPatent 4,086,274.EMI1.1 The cysteamine is produced as its hydrochloride from which water has to be driven off, leaving the molten hydrochloride, and because molten cysteamine hydrochloride sets to a glass on cooling and this is inconvenient for further processing, it is necessary to cool it on a rotating drum to obtain it in flake form. It has now been found that the cysteamine stage can be avoided and processing made more economic by directly using intermediates preparable from a 2 alkyl 2 oxazoline that are cysteamine derivatives containing an organic substituent on the nitrogen atom, including N mercaptoethylpropionamide 4 itself. The present invention provides a process for the preparation of 4 2 aminoethylthiomethyl 5 methylimidazole, in which an imidazole of the structure 6 EMI2.1 where W is a hydroxy group or an alkoxy group having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms, or a chlorine or bromine atom, is reacted with an ethyleneimino compound of the structureXCH2CH2NYCZ, where X is a hydroxy group, Y is H and Z is a sulphur atom or X is a mercapto group, Y is H and Z is an oxygen atom or Y is a double bond and X and Z together represent a sulphur atom and R is an alkyl group having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms. Where X is a hydroxy group, Y is H, and Z is a sulphur atom, the ethyleneimino compound is an N 2 hydroxyethyl alkylthiocarboxamide. Where X is a mercapto group, Y isH, and Z is an oxygen atom, the ethyleneimino compound is an N 2 mercaptoethyl alkylcarboxamide. Where Y is a double bond and X and Z together represent a sulphur atom, the ethyleneimino compound is a 2 alkyl 2 thiazoline.These compounds have in common an organic substituent on the imino group that is not present in cysteamine. The structures of the three types of ethyleneimino compound used in the process are shown in the following diagram as 7 , 8 and 9 EMI3.1 The N 2 hydroxyethyl alkylthiocarboxamide 7 can be prepared in high yield from the 2 alkyl 2 oxazoline 10 and can either be used directly in the process of the invention or can be cyclised to the 2 alkyl 2 thiazoline 8 which is then used in the process. The N 2 mercapto ethyl alkylcarboxamide 9 can be prepared from the 2 alkyl 2 oxazoline 10 as described in USP 4,086,274. The conversion of the compounds 7 , 8 and 9 to 4 2 aminoethylthiomethyl 5 methylimidazole 11 can be effected in high yield. Both routes 10 through 7 to 11 , and 10 through 9 to 11 have the advantage that besides avoiding formation of cysteamine hydrochloride, they employ only two chemical process steps starting with the oxazoline instead of three when the cysteamine route is used.The process using the route 10 through 7 to 11 is particularly advantageous, as it has been found that the intermediate 7 can be prepared readily using undried oxazoline 10 containing a molar equivalent of water produced in the cyclisation step by which 10 is prepared from an N 2 hydroxyethyl alkylcarboxamide such as the compound 2 , whereas this is not possible using the route 10 through 9 to 11 , because water interferes with the conversion of 10 to 9 . In a process of the invention preferably W in the imidazole of structure 6 is a hydroxy group where it is an alkoxy group, preferably it is methoxy, ethoxy or n butoxy. The imidazole can be used as the free base, or as a salt, for instance the hydrochloride. The group R in the ethyleneimino compound is preferably a straight chain alkyl group, especially methyl or ethyl. The process of the invention is carried out under hydrolytic conditions that remove the organic group attached to the nitrogen atom and containing R, so that the cysteamine is generated in situ. This can be effected by the action of a strong mineral acid, for instance concentrated aqueous hydrochloric or hydrobromic acid.Thus a mixture of the organic reagents and the hydrolysing acid on heating to from 500 to 1500C, under reflux if required, results in condensation with removal of the organic group containing R and formation of the imidazolylmethyl thioether product 11 . As the imidazole 6 is more expensive than the ethyleneimino compound, it is preferable to use from 1 to 1.3 molar equivalents of the ethyleneimino compound to 1 molar equivalent of the imidazole. Where the mercaptoethyl compound 9 is used the best yields are obtainable with from 1 to 1.1 molar equivalents of it to 1 molar equivalent of the imidazole.The product can be isolated as the free base, but preferably it is isolated as a crystalline salt with an acid, for example as the dihydrochloride or dihydrobromide.A total of from 2 to 2.5 molar equivalents of hydrogen halide to 1 of imidazole can be used to produce the dihydrohalide. Preferably where the ethyleneimino compound is an N 2 hydroxyethyl alkylthiocarboxamide, the process is one in which it has been prepared by the reaction of hydrogen sulphide with a 2 alkyl 2 oxazoline in the presence of an unreactive organic base, especially a tertiary nitrogen base, for instance triethylamine, tri n propylamine or l,5 diazabicyclo 4,5,0 undec 5 ene, 0 preferably at a temperature in the range from 50 to 1000C. Especially convenient as starting material is the 2 alkyl 2 oxazoline obtained from cyclisation of anN 2 hydroxymethyl alkylcarboxamide without removal of the water eliminated on cyclisation, for instance as described in USP 3,681,329 and USP 4,203,900.It has been discovered that in the presence of the base the addition of the hydrogen sulphide is directed to produce the thiocarboxamide. Preferably from 0.1 to 0.5 molar equivalents of base to 1 of thiocarboxamide are used. Where the ethyleneimino compound is anN 2 mercaptoethyl alkylcarboxamide, the starting material can be obtained as described in USP 4,086,274. Where the ethyleneimino compound is a 2 alkyl 2 thiazoline, it can be obtained from the corresponding N 2 hydroxyethyl alkylthiocarboxamide by cyclodehydration, for instance by heating with a dehydration catalyst, especially a sulphonic acid, for example methanesulphonic, ethanesulphonic or toluene 2 sulphonic acid. It is convenient to dissolve the thiocarboxamide in an inert solvent, for instance dichloromethane, with the dehydration catalyst and to heat the mixture at from 300 to 1000C until reaction is complete. The invention is illustrated by the following Examples, in which temperatures are in OC, and parts are by weight. EXAMPLE 1 a. Hydrogen sulphide gas was passed for 4 hr into a mixture of 2 methyl 2 oxazoline 42.5 g, 0.5 mol and triethylamine 5.05 g, 0.05 mol . At the start the mixture was heated to bring it to 600 in 10 min and to maintain it at that temperature for 20 min an exothermic reaction maintained it at 600 until near the end of the period, when heating was reapplied to maintain the temperature. Excess hydrogen sulphide was purged with nitrogen, and triethylamine was removed under reduced pressure at 250 to give N 2 hydroxyethyl thioacetamide as a yellow liquid of purity hplc 98.3 58.5 g, 96.6 . b. To N 2 hydroxyethyl thioacetamide 11.2 g, 0.094 mol was added concentrated hydrochloric acid 15 ml , followed by 4 hydroxymethyl 5 methylimidazole hydrochloride 12.6 g, 0.075 mol , and the resulting brown solution was heated under reflux for 18 hr. Volatile materials were removed by distillation until the residue 0 reached 160 , and the residue was allowed to cool to 900, hot glacial acetic acid 40 ml was added and the mixture seeded with crystals of end product and allowed to cool.After standing overnight the crystalline product was filtered off, washed with isopropyl alcohol 25 ml and solvent removed at 1050 to give 4 2 aminoethylthiomethyl 5 methylimidazole dihydrochloride 13.9 g, 76.0 0 based on hydroxymethylimidazole , m.p. 188 90 EXAMPLE 2 a i . Hydrogen sulphide gas was passed for 5 hr into a mixture of 2 ethyl 2 oxazoline 49.5 g, 0.5 mol and 1,5 diazabicyclo 4,5,0 undec 5 ene 15.2 g, 0.1 mol . The mixture was heated to and maintained at 600 as in Example la. The yellow reaction mixture was purged with nitrogen to remove excess hydrogen sulphide, poured on to a column of silica and chromatographed with ethyl acetate as eluent. Fractional distillation of the eluate gaveN 2 hydroxyethyl thiopropionamide as a straw coloured liquid, b.p. 1360 0.15 mm Hg.a ii . Hydrogen sulphide was passed for 3 hr into a mixture of 2 ethyl 2 oxazoline 49.5 g, 0.5 mol and triethylamine 20.2 g, 0.2 mol . The temperature of the mixture was brought to and maintained at 600 as before, excess hydrogen sulphide was then removed by purging with nitrogen, and the triethylamine was removed by evaporation under reduced pressure at 250 to give N 2 hydroxyethyl thiopropionamide 66.0 g, 99.4 as a yellow liquid.a iii . A process was carried out as in a ii , except that the 2 ethyl 2 oxazoline starting material used contained in addition 9 g water and was typical of the wet ethyloxazoline obtained directly by cyclodehydration ofN 2 hydroxyethyl propionamide. The yield of product was 64.2 g 96.6 .b. To N 2 hydroxyethyl thiopropionamide 33.2 g, 0.25 mol was added concentrated hydrochloric acid 39 ml , followed by 4 hydroxymethyl 5 methylimidazole hydrochloride 29.7 g, 0.20 mol and the resulting brown mixture heated under reflux for 18 hr. The product was treated as in Example Ib and there was obtained 4 2 aminoethylthiomethyl 5 methylimidazole dihydrochloride 43.0 g, 88.1 based on hydroxymethylimidazole , m.p. 188 900. EXAMPLE 3 4 Hydroxymethyl 5 methylimidazole hydrochloride 17.58 parts , N 2mercaptoethyl propionamide 15.75 parts and concentrated hydrochloric acid 13.0 parts were heated together under reflux for 15 hr. Propionic and hydrochloric acids were then removed by distillation until the residue reached 1500, and glacial acetic acid 72 parts was added, the temperature of the mixture being maintained at above 1000 throughout the addition. After 0 cooling the mixture to 50 a seeding amount of crystalline end product was added, the mixture was stirred and maintained at 45 50 for 30 min and then cooled to below 200 and stirred for 1 hr to complete crystallisation.The product was separated by centrifugation, washed 3 times in the centrifuge with 0 isopropyl alcohol, and dried at 100 to give 4 2 aminoethylthiomethyl 5 methylimidazole 0 dihydrochloride 27 parts, 93 , m.p. 188 90 EXAMPLE 4 a. Methanesulphonic acid 1.0 g, 0.01 mol was added to a solution of N 2 hydroxyethyl thiopropionamide 1.0 g, 0.0075 mol in dichloromethane 5 ml and the mixture heated under reflux 420 for 24 hr. After cooling to 0 0 water 5 ml was added, and then solid potassium carbonate until the aqueous phase had pH 9.The aqueous and non aqueous phases were separated, the aqueous phase extracted with dichloromethane 5 ml , and the extracts added to the non aqueous phase, which was then dried with calcium chloride and solvent removed by evaporation at ambient temperature to give 2 ethyl 2 thiazoline 0.54 g, 62 b.p. 165 7 . b. Concentrated hydrochloric acid 36 ml was added slowly to 2 ethyl 2 thiazoline 37.95 g, 0.33 mol followed by 4 hydroxymethyl 5 methylimidazole hydrochloride 49 g, 0.33 mol , and the mixture heated under reflux for 16 hr. The product was subjected to distillation until the residue reached 1450, hot glacial acetic acid 220 ml was added to the residue and the mixture was cooled to 600 and seed crystal of the end product was added.The resulting suspension was cooled to 200 and stirred for 1 hr, the crystalline precipitate filtered off, washed with isopropyl alcohol 100 ml and solvent removed by evaporation at 1050 to give 4 2 aminoethylthiomethyl 5 methyl imidazole 0 dihydrochloride 64.4 g, 79.3 , m.p. 188 90 EXAMPLES 5 to 8 4 2 Aminoethylthiomethyl 5 methylimidazole dihydrochloride is prepared as described in Examples lb, 2b, 3 and 4b, except that instead of 4 hydroxymethyl 5methylimidazole hydrochloride there is used 4 methoxymethyl 5 methylimidazole hydrochloride 13.8 g, 32.5 g, 19.2 parts and 41.5 g , respectively. EXAMPLES 9 to 12 4 2 Aminoethylthiomethyl 5 methylimidazole dihydrochloride is prepared as described in Examples lb, 2b, 3 and 4b, except that instead of 4 hydroxymethyl 5methylimidazole hydrochloride there is used 4 chloromethyl 5 methylimidazole hydrochloride 34.6 g, 33.4 g, 19.7 parts and 42.7 g , respectively. EXAMPLES 13 to 16 Processes are carried as described in Examples lb, 2b, 3 and 4b, except that instead of hydrochloric acid and 4 hydroxymethyl 5 methylimidazole hydrochloride there are used hydrobromic acid and 4 bromomethyl 5 methylimidazole hydrobromide 21.7 g, 51.2 g, 30.3 parts and 65.4 g , respectively, to obtain 4 2 aminoethylthiomethyl 5methylimidazole dihydrobromide, m.p. 208 211 .