# Preparation of lower alkyl 2 formyl 3 6 methyl 3 pyridinyl propionates.

## Abstract
Lower alkyl 2 formyl 3 3 pyridinyl propionates of use as chemical intermediates are prepared by hydrocarboxyalkyla tion of a 3 vinylpyridine with carbon monoxide and an alcohol under homogeneous catalytic conditions with a ligand associated palladium compound to give a lower alkyl 3 3 pyridinyl propionate which is then α formylated.

## Claims
What is claimed is 1. The method of preparing C14 alkyl 3 3 pyridinyl propionates comprising reacting a 3 vinylpyridine with carbon monoxide and a C 1 4 alkanol under homogeneous catalytic conditions in the presence of a catalyst precursor of the structure EMI11.1 in which Y is CH2 n, CH2CH2NH2CH2CH2 C1 , EMI11.2 n is 3, 4 or 5 andX is C1, Br, HSO4 or NO3. 2. The method of claim 1 in which n is 4. 3. The method of claim 1 in which n is 4, the pressure of reaction is from 50 300 psi, the temperature is from 90 150 and the alkanol is ethanol or methanol. 4. The method of claims 1 3 in which an excess of glacial acetic acid is present. 5. The method of claims 1 4 in which toluene is present as a solvent. 6. The method of claims 1 5 in which the 3vinylpyridine is 3 vinyl 6 methylpyridine and the product is C14 alkyl 3 6 methyl 3 pyridinyl propionate. 7. The method of claims 1 6 in which the C14 alkyl 3 3 pyridinyl propionate is then a formylated. 8. The method of claim 7 in which the formylating reagent is methyl formate in case of a methyl 3 3 pyridinyl propionate and ethyl formate in case of an ethyl 3 3 pyridinyl propionate. 9. The method of claim 7 in which the formylation is carried out by reacting methyl formate and a methyl 3 3 pyridinyl propionate in the presence of sodium or potassium methoxide in a confined reaction vessel. 10. The method of claim 7 in which the formylation is carried out using a crude mixture of 2 and 3 propionate isomers.

## Description
PREPARATION OF LOWER ALKYL 2 FORMYL 3 6 METHYL 3 PYRIDINYL PROPIONATES This invention provides a chemical method for preparing lower alkyl 2 formyl 3 3 pyridinyl propionates which are intermediates for preparing chemical compounds having histamine H2 receptor antagonist activity whose structures are characterized by being 2 substituted amino 5 heterocyclylmethyl 4 lH pyrimidinones. See, for example, U.S. Patent No. 4,234,588. The method of this invention comprises two chemical reactions, first and most critical, a homogeneous catalytic hydrocarboxyalkylation of a 3 vinylpyridine to give a 3 3 pyridinyl propionic acid ester and then a formylation of this ester. Hydrocarboxyalkylation of olefins by means of a catalytic condensation is a chemical process well known to the art, for example Wender et al., Organic Synthesis viaMetal Carbonyls Vol. 2, page 233 Wiley 1977 and U.S.Patent No, 3,437,676. The reaction is essentially the addition of carbon monoxide and an alcohol or water to a vinyl group. The catalytic hydrocarboxyalkylation of styrene has been reported to produce 95 of the 2 ester using a palladium tin catalyst U.S. Patent No.3,952,034 . Also, using diphosphine palladium complexes, a process for the hydrocarboxyalkylation of styrene to favor the production of the 3 ester has been reported, Y.Sugi et al., Chemistry Letters, 727 730 1976 andJapanese Patent Application No. Sho 49 143454 June 18, 1976 . Many catalysts are also known to this art such as palladium halides bonded or not with various ligands such as phosphines, rhodium or ruthenium catalysts, cobalt carbonyls and others. Hydrocarboxyalkylation of 2 vinylpyridine using cobalt carbonyl Co2 CO 8 with pyridine as ligand gave 3 esters, as reported by A.Madsuda et al., Bull. Chem. Soc. Japan 51 3016 1978 . We have now found that with certain specific catalysts under homogenous conditions 3 vinylpyridines can be hydrocarboxyalkylated using carbon monoxide and a C14 alkanol, especially either methanol or ethanol, to form a mixture of lower alkyl 3 3 pyridinyl propionate and 2 3 pyridinyl propionate, unexpectedly with a high proportion of the desired 3 isomer. The method is carried out most conveniently by using one mole equivalent of the 3 vinylpyridine, 3 30 mole equivalents of C14 alkanol and a catalytic quantity 1 4 1 3 mole t of the palladium compound. When 3 6 mole equivalents of alkanol are used, the process is preferably carried out in an aromatic solvent which is chemically inert under the reaction conditions and in which the reactants are soluble. Examples of suitable solvents are the benzenoid solvents such as benzene, toluene, xylene, anisole, chlorobenzene and the like.Toluene is preferred. The selectivity to the 3 isomer vs.the 2 isomer is higher when aromatic solvents are used. In addition unexpectedly enhanced yields are obtained when the hydrocarboxyalkylation reaction is carried out in the presence of one or more mole equivalents of an acid such as glacial acetic acid. The palladium compound, which is a catalyst precursor, has the formula EMI3.1 in which Y is CH2 n CH2CH2NH2CH2CH2 Cl 2 n CH2CH2NH2CH2CH2 C1 Z EMI3.2 n is 3, 4 or 5 andX is C1, Br, HSO4 or NO3. The phosphine ligand preferably has 3, 4 or 5 groups separating the two diphenylphosphine groups. These palladium compounds, especially where Y is CH2CH 2NH2CH2 CH2 C1 , may be bound to polymer systems by methods known to the art. One skilled in the art will recognize that certain aromatic solvents such as 1,4 dichlorobenzene may also associate with the catalyst as an additional ligand without adversely affecting the course of the reaction. The method is most usefully carried out in an atmosphere of carbon monoxide charged to about 10 1500 p.s.i. preferably 50 300 p.s.i. at temperatures of from about 75 200 preferably 90 150 until reaction is substantially complete such as from 8 12 hours. Generally pressures less than 300 p.s.i. are preferred. The course of the first step of the reaction sequence of this invention is as follows expressed with preferred reactants EMI4.1 in which R is C 1 4 alkyl. The configuration necessary for the next step of this process is the 3 isomer of structure III above.Unexpectedly, the process of this invention provides a ratio of the 3 isomer to the 2 isomer of structure IV of 6 8 to 1 under preferred conditions. In addition to the hydrocarboxyalkylation products, III and IV, there are produced a 3 ethylpyridine and a 3 3 pyridinyl propionic acid as by products. The desired 3 3 pyridinyl propionate III can be isolated by standard chemical means. It has been found, however, that under simple distillation conditions the two isomeric products usually codistill especially the ethyl and methyl esters. However, a mixture of the isomers may be formylated and the formylated derivative ofIII being acidic can be separated using an aqueous base extraction. As noted above, addition of one mole equivalent or an excess of glacial acetic acid to the catalytic reaction mixture unexpectedly gives increased yields of the desired 3 3 pyridinyl propionate. A number of hydrocarboxyalkylation catalysts commonly used in the prior art have either not worked or have given poor yields of the desired products in our hands such as cobalt carbonyl, bis benzonitrile palladium dichloride, bis triphenylphosphine palladium dichloride, bis triphenylphosphine palladium dichloride stannous chloride. At this point, therefore, it seems that the character of the ligand in the catalyst is critical in determining selectivity for the 3 isomer. The second chemical step of the process of this invention comprises a formylation of the 3 3 pyridinyl propionate ester. The reaction is illustrated as follows formylation of compound III to give compound V EMI5.1 in which R is as described above and R1 is methyl or ethyl. The formylation of III using ethyl formate under somewhat different reaction conditions is disclosed inU.S. Patent No. 4,234,588, for example in Example 3. Most readily the formylation is carried out by reacting the ester with an excess of methyl or ethyl formate in the presence of an acid binding agent such as a sodium or potassium lower alkoxide of 1 6 carbons preferably methoxide or ethoxide. As solvent, one may use any organic solvent, inert under the reaction conditions, in which the reactants are soluble, such as an aromatic solvent such as benzene, toluene, xylene, anisole or the like or an ether such as tetrahydrofuran. The course of the reaction is monitored while the reaction is allowed to go to completion either at ambient temperature or elevated 0 temperature such as up to 50 60 . At room temperature reaction time may run from about 8 72 hours. The source of ester starting material may be pure propionate ester III or a mixture of the 2 and 3 isomers as obtained directly from the catalytic hydrocarboxyalkylation reaction described above. There is a large quantity of carbon monoxide gas evolved during the reaction using methyl formate due to decomposition of the formate. Yields of 50 902 based on the ester starting material are realized by carrying the reaction out under preferred confined conditions either in a sealed reaction vessel or, for quantities above about 1 4 mole, in an autoclave. Also, it has been found that when R and R1 are not identical transesterification occurs which gives a mixture of 3 3 pyridinyl 2 formylpropionate esters.Therefore, it is preferred that R and R1 be the same and also that the same alkyl group be present in the alkoxide acid binding agent. The desired product is isolated by conventional chemical methods. Other a formylation methods can also be used such as by reacting the propionate ester with carbon monoxide under catalytic conditions or in the presence of a sodium or potassium lower alkoxide as known to the art. The a formyl product which, as the ester, is the object of this invention forms a water soluble sodium or potassium salt in its enolic form. The following examples are designed to teach the practice of this invention using 6 methyl 3 pyridinyl containing compounds. However, other pyridine containing compounds can be used as equivalents. All temperatures are in degrees Centigrade. EXAMPLE 1 A mixture of 180 g 1.5 m of 2 methyl 5 vinylpyridine, 200 g 6.25 m of methanol, 100 g 1.67 m of glacial acetic acid, a 3.4 g 0.0056 m of 1,4 bis diphenylphosphino butane palladium dichloride and 2600 ml of toluene was charged into a one gallon stirred autoclave.The container was pressurized to 150 psi with carbon monoxide. The mixture was heated to 1200 with agitation for 10 hours. The autoclave was then vented. The contents were placed on a rotary evaporator to obtain an oil which was distilled to obtain 135 g 1000, 0.4 mmHg of product containing 87 44 yield of methyl 3 6 methyl 3 pyridinyl propionate and 13 6.5 yield of methyl 2 6 methyl 3 pyridinyl propionate analysis by gas chromatography . EXAMPLE 2 A mixture of 45 g 0.25 m of methyl 3 6 methyl3 pyridinyl propionate in the form of a mixture with its 2 isomer, 155.2 g 2.59 m of methyl formate and 270 ml of toluene was placed in a 1 1. stirring autoclave. Then 34 0.63 m of sodium methoxide was added slowly. The sealed autoclave was heated to 35 400 for a total of 16 hours.The light yellow mixture was removed from the reactor for workup. Water in several portions was added to the toluene reaction mixture. The water extracts were combined and adjusted to pH 6.5 with concentrated sulfuric acid to separate a white solid. The mixture was chilled and filtered to give 44.9 g 86 of crude methyl 3 6 methyl 3 pyridinyl 2 formylpropionate. This material may be used in crude form. It was purified further by dissolving in hot chloroform, filtering and diluting with 2 volumes of n heptane. Cooling separated the purified ester. The ester has a melting point of 145.5 1470. Anal. Calcd. for C11H13NO3 1 8 H2O C, 63.07 H, 6.38 N, 6.69. Found C, 62.90, 63.07 H, 6.24, 6.25 N, 6.66, 6.72. EXAMPLE 3 Sodium 2.66 g, 0.11 m was added slowiy to a mixture of absolute ethanol 50 ml and toluene 65 ml .The mixture was then heated until the sodium had all reacted and further to evaporate excess ethanol. The mixture was then cooled while 9.26 g 0.048 m of ethyl 3 6 methyl 3 pyridinyl propionate and 8.58 g 0.116 m of ethyl formate were added maintaining a temperature less than 150. The mixture was then stirred at ambient temperature for 48 hours. The mixture was cooled and crushed ice added.The pH was adjusted to pH 7 with 10N sulfuric acid to separate 7.9 g 72 of ethyl 3 6 methyl 3 pyridinyl 2 ormylpropionate. After purification by recrystallization and drying the melting point of the ethyl ester was 141 143 . EXAMPLE 4 A slurry of 13.56 g 0.251 m of sodium methoxide in 100 ml of toluene was chilled in ice water while 18.6 g 0.104 m of methyl 3 6 methyl 3 pyridinyl propionate and 18.52 0.251 m of ethyl formate were added. The mixture was stirred at ambient temperature 60 hours. The reaction mixture was worked up as above to give 11.26 g 60 of solid which by nuclear magnetic resonance analysis was a mixture of methyl and ethyl 3 6 methyl 3 pyridinyl 2 formylpropionate. EXAMPLE 5 By the procedure of Example 1, the following results were obtained using, in place of l,4 bis diphenyl phosphine butane, the following palladium compounds EMI9.1 EMI9.2 tb SEP SEP Yield tb SEP Y SEP X SEP 3 ester SEP 2 ester tb SEP CH2 3 SEP C1 SEP 37 SEP 8 tb SEP CH2 5 SEP C1 SEP 35 SEP 4.3 tb SEP tb CH2CH2NH2CH2CH2 SEP Cl SEP C1 SEP 71 SEP 15 tb SEP methanol SEP solvent tb SEP CH2T SEP CH2 SEP SEP C1 SEP 40 SEP 5.2 tb SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP CH3 SEP CH3 tb CH2 4 SEP Br SEP 42 SEP 5.1 tb CH2 4 SEP HSO4 SEP 71 SEP 17 tb methanol SEP solvent tb CH2 4 SEP 3 SEP NO3 SEP 59 SEP 16 tb SEP methanol SEP solvent tb The palladium compounds are either known to the art or are prepared by known methods, for example by reaction of the phosphines with bis benzonitrile palladium dichloride, Sugi et al., Chemistry Letters, 727 730 1976 . EXAMPLE 6 By the procedure of Example 1, using the following lower alkanols in place of methanol, the following results were obtained Yield lower alkanol ester 3 ester 2 ester ethanol ethyl 46.8 4.3 n propanol n propyl 32 2.6 n butanol n butyl 31 2.6