# Terpolymer resins.

## Abstract
New terpolymer resins and a method of producing them are provided. The resins are characterised by a content of 54 to 85 weight percent of alpha methylsty rene, 10 to 41 weight percent of styrene and 5 to 36 weight percent of isobutylene.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for the production of a terpolymer resin in which alpha methylstyrene, styrene and isobutylene are polymerised in an aliphatic, aromatic or chlorinated hydrocarbon in the presence of a Friedel Crafts catalyst, characterised in that there are used 55 to 85 weight percent of alpha methylstyrene, 10 to 30 weight percent of styrene and 5 to 40 weight percent of isobutylene and in that these monomers and solvent are dried so that their water content is below 60 parts per million before the polymerisation. 2. A process according to claim 1 in which the said water content is reduced to below 50 parts per million. 3. A process according to claim 7 or 2 in which the polymerisation is carried out between 200C. and 450 C. 4. A terpolymer resin of alp ha methylstyrene, styrene and isobutylene characterised in that it comprises 54 to 85 weight percent of alp ha methylstyrene, 10 to 41 weight percent of styrene and 5 to 36 weight percent of isobutylene. 5. A resin according to claim 4 which has an R and B softening point between 70 and 1000C. and a Picco DMS Cloud Point which is below 200C. 6. A hot melt adhesive comprising an elastomer,a wax and a resin, characterised in that the resin is a resin according to claim 4 or 5 or a resin made by a process according to any of claims 1 to 3.

## Description
TERPOLYMER RESINS This invention relates to the field of synthetic resins.In particular, it concerns terpolymers of alpha methylstyrene, styrene and isobutylene, and a process for the production of such terpolymers. Resins are extensively used in the coatings and adhesives industries. They are included in the formulations to provide, inter alia, enhanced tack properties. Resins formed by modifying natural resins have, for many years, been widely used but such resins are sometimes expensive, and, in any case, their properties are not always fully satisfactory. A more economical alternative has been found in entirely synthetic resins manufactured from petroleum monomers. In assessing the suitability of synthetic resins in coating or adhesive formulations, a number of criteria must be satisfied if the product is to be commercially viable.The ability to impart a satisfactory tackiness in a coating or adhesive composition is an essential feature of a useful resin for many purposes. The colour of the resin is also important, since transparent or water white coatings and adhesives are commercially more valuable. For similar reasons, the resins should preferably have little or no odour. Compatibility with components in a coating or adhe sive composition nust be optimised. Thermal stability, a suitable softening temperature and melt viscosity are also important properties which may affect their utility in adhesives and coating omposi tions. Resins derived from petroleum fractions generally have a dark colour and poor thermal stability. The colour may be partially removed by hydrogenation of the petroleum resin but the thermal stability is nevertheless often i nadequbte. Pale resins may be produced from refined raw materials, such as alp ha methylstyr ene AIRS and styrene. These have the disadvantage that they do not impart sufficient tack to pressure sensitive adhesives PSA . It is known to increase tackiness of synthetic resins by introducing aliphatic groups contained in compounds such as indene or isopropenyl toluene into the mixture of monomers to be polymerised. In one such formulation, isobutylene is used to introduce aliphatic groups. In particular, U.S. Patent 2,814,738 discloses a terpolymer containing up to 53.5us of alpha methylstyrene, 16 to 88 percent of styrene and 1 to 63 percent of isobutylene. In attempts to form a terpolymer by copolymerising alpha methylstyrene, styrene and isobutylene, it has been widely accepted that to achieve satisfactory resins and reasonable yields with good thermal stability, a substantial quantity of styrene and undesirably low proportions of alpha methylstyrene and isobutylene must be used. High styre ne levels lead to low compatibility as evidenced by high cloud points, and high levels of isobutylene can result in undesirably low softening points. It would be desirable to have a relatively high level of alpha methystyrene in an effort to achieve high comoiibility with a relatively high softening point.We have surprisingly discovered that a satisfactory terpolymer comprising alphamethylstyrene, styrene and isobutylene can be made under certain carefully controlled conditions, without encountering the formulation dIfficulties that previous experience indicated would be unavoidable. There is Rrovaded a terpolymer resin of alpha methylstyrene, styrene and isobutylene, characterised in that it comprises 54 to 55 weight percent of alp ha methylstyrene, 10 to 41 weight percent of styrene and 5 to 36 weight percent of isobutylene. Also, according to this invention, a process for the manufacture of such a terpolymer resin, in which alpha methylstyr ene, styrene and is obutylene are polymerised in an aliphatic, aromatic or chlorinated hydrocarbon in the presence of a Friedel Crafts catalyst, is characterised in that 55 to 85 weight percent of alpha methylstyrene, 10 to 30 weight percent of styrene and 5 to 40 weight percent of isobutylene are dried to a water content below 60 parts per million before being pol ymerised in the solvent. While monomers of high purity may be used, this invention envisages additionally the use of commerciallyavailable monomers. The isobutylene feed in particular may vat in composition but should contain isobutylene as the major reactive component. Preferably the copolymerisation is carried out between 200C and 450C. It is essential that the monomers and solvent used in the copolymerisation have in combination a water content below 60 parts per million. Preferably, the water content should be less than 50 parts per million. This is an important feature of the process according to the invention, and means that the water content is much lower than in conventional polymerisation processes. The monomersand, the solvent should be carefully dried before polymerisation is initiated. It is necessary to copolymerise the reactants in the presence of at least one Friedel Crafts catalyst, preferably boron trifluoride in the form of its phenol adduct. The solvents to be used are the type commonly employed in Friedel Crafts polymerisation reactions, and as indicated above,may be aliphatic, aromatic or chlorinated hydro carbons. The following specific Examples indicate how the resins of the present invention optimise the properties of compatibility with other compounds used in the formulation of coating and adhesive compositions, tackiness, lack of colour, thermal stability, useful softening points, etc. Compati bili t y with the com ponents of coating and adhesive composit ions is estimated by usin g a cloud point test of a type which.is well known to those person s skilled in the art.As will be shown, the resins, the subject of the present invention, combine the good tackification afforded by the relatively high levels of isobutylene with the thermal stability and higher softening points afforded by the alpha methylstyrene styrene system in which unconventionally high levels of alpha methylstyre ne are used. Such high levels of alp ha methylstyrene have previously been thought to be of little utility in a commercial resin. Example 1 Alpha methylstyrene, styrene and isobutylene in the proportions indicated in Table I and a solvent Solvesso 10D were dried over an 1 8th. inch molecular sieve to a level of less than 50 parts per million of water. The temperature was adjusted to 3 C. 30C. below the polymerisation temperature of 0 C. , with a dry ice ethanol bath. GaseousBF3 was used as catalyst. It was added intermittently flushing the inlet tube with nitrogen . The polymerisation is exothermic and the temperature therefore needed control with the dry ice eth anol bath. After a reaction period of 30 minutes, the polymerisation was allowed to continue for a further 30 minutes. The solution was washed with dilute sodium hydro x i de solution and twice with water. The resin was recovered by steam stripping at 2350 C. at atmospheric pressure. Example 2 A similar preparation to that described in Example 1 was performed, except that a polymerisation temperature of 200C. was used and the vessel was adjusted to a temperature of 17 C. 30C. below the polymerisation temperature . Comparative Example A A similar preparation to that described in Example 1 was performed except that no isobutylene was added. The resulting composition resembles commercially available alpha methylstyrene styrene resins. Table 1Example A 1 2Alpha methylstyrene parts 75 75 75 of monomers 75 60 60Styrene parts 25 25 25 of monomers 25 20 20Isobutylene parts 25 25 of monomers 20 20Solvent parts 200 200 200Polymerisation Temperature OC. O 0 20Yield parts 97 115 112 of monomers 97 92 90HDSP C. 127 124 83OMS Cloud Point C. 183 140 17Colour Cardner test 50 solu tion in tolu ene 1 1 These resul ts indicate that the addition of isobutylene has improved the compatibility of the resin in comparison to the resin of Comparative Example A. This is shown by the lower cloud points of the resins of Examples 1 and 2. The greatl improved conpatibility of the product of Example 2 is accompanied by a lowering in the softening point. Example, 3 Alpha methylstyrere, styrene and a solvent Solvesso 100 in the proportions indicated in Table 2 were dried to less than 50 ppm of water over an 1 8th. inch molecular sieve An isobutylene rich stream was adde d, again, in the proportion shown in Table 2. The stream contained 45 isobutylene as the major reactive component . The mixture was cha rged to e round bottomed flask. The temperature was adjusted to 25 C. with a dry ice ethanol bath. BF3 gas was added intermittently flushing the inlet tube with nitrogen .The polymerisation is exothermic and the temperature therefore needed control with a dry ice ethanol bath. After a reaction period of 30 minutes, the polymerisation was allowed to continue for a further 30 minutes. The solution was washed with dilute sodium hydroxide solution and then twice with water. The solution was steam stripped at 2350C. at atmospheric pressure to remove the solvent. Comp a r ativ e Example B A similar preparation was performed to that described inExample 3 except that no isobutylene stream was included in the reaction mixture. As in Comparative Example A, the resulting composition resembles commercially available alpha meth ylstyrene styrene resins according to the prior art. In Table 2, the monomer percentages are given on the basis that the isobutylene feed stock contains 45 isobutylene. The total monomer is taken to include the alpha methylstyrene, the styrene and the isobutylene content of the isobutylene stream. Table 2Example B 3 Alpha methylstyrene parts 75 75 Ó of monomers 75 55Styrene parts 25 25 of monomers 25 18Isobutylene Stream parts 80 isobutylene on monomers 27Solvent parts 200 200Example B 3Polymerisation Temperature C. 30 30Yield parts 92 93 of monomers 92 68HDSP OC. 65 60 Colour 1 1OMS Cloud Point OC. 12 45 These results show that while the terpolymer produced is similar to conventional alpha methyl styrene styrene resins in softening point and colour, the lo wer cloud point of the terpolymer may be expected to give it better properties in adhesiVes.Generally the higher polymerisation temperature of 300C. produces a lower softening point than polymerisations of the present invention performed at OOC. The following experiments were conducted to assess the nature of the terpolymers of the present invention which result from different Friedel Crafts catalysts and the effect of varying the catalyst concentrations in the polymerisation reactions. Example 4 Alpha methylstyrene, styrene and isobutylene were polymerised in the proportions given in Table 3. Polymer isations were carried out on dried sparged feed in a onelitre batch reactor. Using a simultaneous addition tech niqu e, 2 parts of BF3 phenol were used as the Friedel Crafts catalyst. The reaction mixture was deactivated with ammonia the Lewis acid catalyst being precipitated as the ammonium adduct , filtered and then steam stripped at 2350C Example 5 A similar preparation to that described in Example 4 was performed except that 0.6 parts of the BF3 p,henol Friedel Crafts catalyst was used. In Table 3, the monomer percentages are given on the basis that the isobuvylene feedstock contains 45 isobutylene.The total monomer is taken to include the alpha methylstyrene, the styrene and the isobutylene content of the isobutylene stream. Table 3Example 4. 5 Alpha methylatyrene parts 75 75 of monomers 56 69Styrene parts 25 25 of monomers 19 23Isobutylene Stream parts 75 20 isobutylene on monomers 25 8Solvent parts 200 100BF3 phenol parts 2 0.6Polymerisation Temperature C. 0 5 15Yield parts 100 95 of monomers 75 87Softening Point C. R B 78 57 OMS Cloud Point C. 10 35 It is evident from these results that low concentrations of Friedel Crafts catalysts give an adequate performance in the polymerisations of the invention. Example 6 A preparation was made substantiall y as described inExample 3 using 90 parts 62 ó on total monomers alphamethylstyrene, 10 parts 6.9 on total monomers styrene, 100 parts 31.1 on total monomers isobutylene and 100 parts of solvent Solvesso 100 . The mixture was polymerised at 10 C. The resulting resin, obtained in good yield, was of excellent colour, had a high softening point 1150C. and reasonable compatibility. The OMS cloud point was 1220C. These results show that a viable terpolymer can be made with high concentrations of alpha methylstyrene in the feedstock. Example 7 A laboratory preparation of a resin of the present invention was performed as described in Example 3. The dried feedstock comprised 64 weight percent alpha methylstyrene, 21 weight percent styrene and 15 weight percent isobutylene the last being measured assuming 45o3 purity in the feedstock . The resin was evaluated for its adhesive properties, using tests known in the art. The softening point of this resin was 760C. by Ring and Ball test. The cloud point of the resin was 550C. Pressure sensitive adhesive PSA evaluation Adhesives were prepared from a natural rubber NR stock solu ti on of 13 solids, and cast on to Mylar type 0 50 micrometers thickness to a dry coati ng weight of 20 1 2 g m . One film of each PSA was stored overnight at 23 C., 50 relative humidity prior to testing, and a further set of films aged at 400C. over 14 days, then stored overnight at 230C. and 50 relative humidity before testing. Formulations and results are shown in Table 4. Three formulations were tested. Figures in parenthesis indicated standard deviations. Table 4Formulation 1 2 3Natural Rubber w w dry basis 100 100 100Resin of Example 7 80 100 120Cyanox Trade Mark 2246 1 1 1 antioxidant Toluene SBP2N 50 50 to 21 solidsPeel Adhesion gf 2.54 cm Initial 45 178 381 Aged 26 50 274Rolling Ball Tack cm Initial 3.4 0.9 5.8 0.8 3.2 1.0 Aged 4.1 0.4 2.8 0.4 3.7 0.6 Probe Tack g.f. Init i al 264 17.8 456 30.5 637 39.0 Aged 281 26.3 356 103.8 455 82.6 Shear Adhesion min. 2.5 kg. Initial 117 189,3 1350 Aged 28 1095 1266 In the above Table, the Peel Adhesion test is PSTC 1, the Rolling Ball Tack test is PSTC 6 , the Probe Tack test is AS, TM D2979 71 and the Shear Adhesion test is PSTC 7. The overall performance of the resins, the subject of the present invention, is comparable to resins currently in use in PSA applications Example 8 Hot Melt Evaluation Peel adhesion was tested as followe. Hot melt adhesives HMA were prepared and cest at 28 22 g mê, using an AcumeterLH 1 at 160 C. The following formulation was used. Elviax Trade Mark 260 g 30 Techniwax Trade Mark 9211 g 25 Resin of the Invention 7 45 Topanol Trade Mark g 0.2 Five coated paper samples were heat sealed to supercalendered semi bleached paper, aluminium foil and polyethylene film using the following heat seal conditions Paper polyethylene film 93 C. 0.138 Nmm 2 25 Paper paper paper aluminium foil 1210C. 0.138 Nmm 2 25 The T peel specimens were peeled at 30 cm min 1 on anInstron 1026 tensile testing machine, the data obtained are given in Table 5. Table 5 Peel Adhesion gf 25mm paper paper paper polyethylene paper aluminium 304 22 145 17 293 40 The figures in parentheses are again standard deviations.These results show mprovement over resins presently available. The tensile properties of HMA made from the resins of the present invention were tested as follo ws. Five replicate tensile specimens were prepared from the adhesive formulations and tested at 30C mm min 1 on an Instron 1026 tensile testing machine, noting the yield and breaking forces and the elongation at break for each one. All five replicates were preconditioned in an Instron 3111 environmental cabinet operating at OOC. The results are given in Table 6. Table 6Yield Point kg Tensile Strength Nmm 2 Elongation of Break Ó 230C. 0 C. 230C. OOC. 230C. OOC. 2.3 0.3 8.5 1.6 9.0 1.0 1200 12.4 56.0 These results indicate that the resins of the present invention exhibit high elasticity in HMA formulations, maintaining a soft, ductile nature at sub ambient tempera turves. The viscosity stability of HMA made from the resins of the present invention was tested as follows. The initial viscosity was measured at 177 C. using a Brookfield RVT synchro lectric viscometer fitted with a Theremosel chamber. The adhesive was aged at 1770C. in an oven over 72 hours taking daily viscosity readings at 1770C. and simultaneously noting changes in the HMA appearance. The spindle speed of the viscometer was 29 100. The results are given in Table 7. Table 7 Viscosity at 1770C. Initial 24 hr. 48 hr. 72 hr. 5350 5110 4580 3450 This gradual drop in viscosity shows an excellent heat stability in comparison with other resins known to the art. Example 9 The process of the present invention has been scaled up to plant production levels. Batch and semi continuous preparations, similar to those described in Examples 1 6 were carried out to ascertain the optimal conditions for large scale preparation. These were estimated as reactor temperature 150C., catalyst level about o.30a3 on the total feed and C4 i.e., isobutylene rich hydrocarbon fraction 40 on the monomer. The first of two reactors in the plant process was charged with a feed containing 64 weight percent alpha methylstyrene, 28 weight percent styrene and 8 weight per cent isobutylene. The isobutylene value takes into consi dLeration that the C4 feed used contained about 37 pure isobutylene. Th e feed was dried to 50 60 p.p.m. moisture level in activate d alumina drying tubes. The initial BF3 ph enol catalyst flow was estimated at 0.35 weight percent on total feed. After a strip sample was taken after 7 hours, this rate was reduced to 0.27 weight percent on total feed. The average catalyst flow was 0.30o. The reactor temperature was kept at 15 C. for both reactors during the entire run.The residence time was 2.5 hours for the first reactor and 4 hours for the second reactor. The yield of this test run was 77 weight percent on monomers. The resin produced was of good quality. It had an OMS cloud point averaged at 18 C. This cloud point is roughly 300C. below the OMS cloud point of corresponding resins without added isobutylene. The softening point was 750C. Ring and Ball. The resin was clear and the colour was less than 1 Gardner unit at 50 in toluene. In order to assess the resin made by this process, theHMA properties of the resin were compared with the properties of resins currently in use in the coatings and adhesives industries Comparative Examples C F and two other resins prepared in the laborato ry and made in accordance with the teaching of U.S. Patent 2,814,738 ComparativeExamples G and H . This comparison is made in Table 8. Comp ar ati ve Example C Kristalex Trade Mark F 85, Hercules. A copolymer of alpha methylstyrene and styrene softening point 85,0C. byRing and Ball . Comparative Example D Piccolex Trade Mark 75 Hercules . A copolymer of vinyl toluene and alpha methylstyrene softening point 75 C. by Ring and Ball . Comparative Example E Escorez Trade Mark 5300. A hy drogenated cycloalphatic resin softening point 1000C. by Ring and Ball . Comparative Example F Arkon Trade Mark My 00. A hydrogenated aromatic resin derived from a petroleum fraction softening point 100 C. byRing and Ball . Comparative Example G A terpolymer resin was made using a feedstock comprising 50 weight percent of alpfia methylstyrene, 42 weight percent of styrene and 8 weight percent of isobutylene. The softening point Ring and Ball was 760C. and the OMS Cloud Point was 2 40C. Comparative Example H Another terpolymer was made using a feedstock comprising 23 weight percent of alpha me thylstyrene, 68 weight percent of styrene and 9 weight percent of isobutylene.The softening point Ring and Ball was 750C. and the OMSCloud Point was 580C. Table 8 EMI14.1 Example SEP Resin SEP 9 SEP C SEP D SEP E SEP F SEP G SEP H tb Peel SEP Adhesion SEP gf 25mm tb Paper Paper SEP 286 SEP 81 SEP 96 SEP 62 SEP 65 SEP 222 SEP 192 tb Paper Aluminium SEP 250 SEP 136 SEP 150 SEP 99 SEP 135 SEP 200 SEP 252 tb Paper Polyethylene SEP 106 SEP 53 SEP 48 SEP 32 SEP 44 SEP 97 SEP 70 tb 0 C. SEP Tensile SEP Strength tb Strength SEP N SEP mm 2 SEP No SEP failure SEP 10.3 SEP SEP 11.1 SEP SEP 10.36 SEP 9.71 tb Elongation SEP SEP 300 SEP 14 SEP SEP 10 SEP SEP 183 SEP 69 tb Wax SEP Cloud SEP Point tb C. SEP 63 SEP 111 SEP 87 SEP 85 SEP 84 SEP 97 SEP 177.5 tb Stability tb 177 C. SEP for SEP 72 SEP hours SEP No SEP Gelation SEP SEP Gelation SEP SEP SEP No SEP Gelation SEP tb In all the materials where test results are given inTable 8, the formulation of the adhesive is the same as shown in Example 8 and the test methods are the same. The reactants have different rates of polymerisation, which is the reason the ranges of percentages given for the monomers in the polymer are slightly different from those given for the monomers to be reacted to form the polymer. The preferred products of the invention are characterised by a softening point which is between 70 and 7000C. for example 70 to 900C. by the R Bmethod and a cloud point which is below 200C. by the Picco OMS Cloud point method. The HDSP softening point is the Hercules Drop SofteningPoint. This is measured in a manner which is familiar to many in the art. The Picco OMS Cloud Point is measured in a manner which is als o familiar to many in the art. Descriptions of these two test method s are appended. Deteriuination of Picco Cloud Points in Odourless MineralSpirits OMS PrincipleThe cloud point is defined as the temperature at which a solution of 10 resin begins to show insolubility in a paraffinic type solvent.The dissolved solution of tOcÓ resin in OMS is gradually cooled down from an elevated temperature until an intense haze is observed. This is reported as the cloud point.Apparatus 1. Balance 2. Pyrex test tubes 25 x 150 mm 3. Dry ice alcohol bath 4. Erlenmayer flasks 125 ml 5. Volumetric pipette 15 ml 6. Hot Plate 7. Reflux condenser O 8. Thermometer with range 38 C to l00 C Reagents 1. Odourless mineral spirits having an aniline point of 84 C 0.5 C.Procedure 1. Weigh 1.30 g of freshly crusted resin into a 125 ml Erlenmayer flask. 2. Add to the flask 15 ml of OASIS using a clean volumetric pipette. 3. Place the flask on a hot plate, attach to it a reflux condenser, and heat slowly until the solution begins to boil. 4. Allow the contents to reflux until the resin is comp letely dissolved. 5. Remove the flask from the condenser and transfer the solution into the pyrex test tube. 6. Immerse the tube into the dry ice bath and begin stir ring the solution with the thermometer. 7. To prevent the solution from cooling at too rapid a rate, the test tube is pulled out intermittently while the solution is being stirred and carefully observed against a dark field with the light at an angle which allows complete observation inside the tube. 8. This observation must be made more frequently as the cloud point vicinity is approached. 9. Continue stirring and cooling until the full cloud point is observed not the first haze .10. Record the temperature as the cloud point of the resin. R 25 3 ResinsSoftening Point Drop 1 15 45, Rev. 10 21 6R 25 3 Softening Point Thermometer Drop Method Although thermoplastic resins have no definite melting or softening point, it is useful to measure the temperature at which they will soften under arbitrarily selected conditions.The conditions must be well defined, fixed, and carefully controlled for reproducible results. In this method the softening point is defined as that temperature at which a given weight of the resin begins to drop from the bulb of a special thermometer mounted in a test tube immersed in a constant temperature water or oil bath. Selection of the healting bath temperature is dependent upon the softening characteristics of the particular resin under test, and is determined by t serie3 of pilot tests on the resin. See Appendix. Bath temperatures a established for commercial resins during the course of their manufacture and must be adhered to for comparable results Apparatus 1 Test tubes with rim, 22 mm. O.D., 175 wm. length, borosilicate glass. 2 Thermometers, softening point, Hercules APMP, range 0 to 250 C., 1 subdivisions, total immersion, with bulb 5 8 1 32 inch long ad 1 4 1 64 inch in diameter. SeeDrawing No. G 37. These thermometers may be obtained fromHercules Research Center on mill order. 3 Thermometer for heating bath Any standard total immersion type laboratory themometer graduated in 1 C. and covering the range of bath temperatures employed. 4 Heating bath An 800 or 1000 ml. beaker containing water up to 90 C. , or glycerin or oil for higher temperatures. 5 Stirrer for heating bath Model I, Eastern Eng. Co., 125 Cedar St., N. Y0, N. ., or equivalent, For convenience in manipulation, the shaft cf th monel impeller supplied with this stirrer should be lengthened to about eight inches. 6 Balance A balance suitable for weighing the sample thermometer with an accuracy of 0.01 g. Suitable balances are Model Rx 1, Torsion Balance Co., Clifton, N. J., or Victoria scale, Henry Trcemner, Phila., Pa. Assembly of Apparatus Pill the glass beaker to a depth of not less than four in.nor more than 4 1 4 inches with a suitable liquid. Support the beaker over a Bunsen burner, hot plate, or other suitable R 25 3ResinsSoftening Point Drop 1 15 45, Rev 10 21 6 source of heat, and insert the stirrer and bath temperature thermometer. Place the stirrer to one side so that the impeller clears the side of the beaker and is about 1 2 in. above the bottom of title beaker. Procedure Place 15 to 25 g. of the sample in a 30 or 50 ml. aluminum or glass beaker and heat in an ovens sand, or oil bath, or on a hot plate until it becomes soft enough to mold on the thermometer bulb1 taking care to prevent local overheating.It is important that the sample not be heated any hotter nor any longer than necessary. Tare the the mometer to the nearest 0,01 g, and warm over a flame or hot plate until it is heated to 15 or 20 above the expected softening point of the sample. Immediately dip the thermometer into the melted sample and rotate it in order to form a film of molten rosin on the bulb, care being taken not to extend the film higher than the upper edge of the bulb, Quickly place on the balance and weigh, The weight of the sample on the thermometer bulb should be between 0.50 and 0.55 g. If there is insufficient material on the thermometer, again dip into the molten sample if too much, remove by pulling it off with the fingers, When the correct weight has been obtained, mold the sample uniformly over the bulb by rolling on the palm of the hand or between the fingers, It is important that the sample be or uniform thickness over the bulb and that it not extend up onto the thermometer stem. See Figure 1, Tf the film is not uniform when cooled, it should be completely removed from the bulb and a new one applied. Do not reheat the film and try to remold. Allow the film and thermometer to cool until they reach approximately room temperature.Usually about 15 minutes is required. Certain high softening point materials have relatively high coefficients of expansion and crack or check on the thermometer bulb upon cooling to room temperature. e . While this has been found to have relatively little effect on the R 25 3ResinsSoftening Point Drop 1 15 45, Rev. 10 21 04 softening point generally, it is advisable to cool such samples down to only about 50 C. below the expected softening point Adjust the heating bath to within 100. of the temperature specified for the resin under test. Insert the rubber or cork stopper so that the lower end of the bulb is about one inch from the bottom of the tube.Then place it in the bath so that the bottom of the thermommeter bulb is then two inches above the bottom of the beaker and the top of the bulb about one or one and a half inches below the level of the liquid bath. Two or more samples may be placed in the bath at one time. Stir the bath in order to keep the temperature uniform throughout the bath and maintain the initial temperature. Observe the thermometer carrying the sample inside the test tube, and record as the softening point, its reading when the elongation drop on the end of the bulb first becomes constricted. See Figure 2 Precision This should give 1 A repeatability of ca. 1 C. on products softening below 120 C., and 1.5 C.for products softening above 120 C., by the same operator. 2 A reproducibility of ca. 1.5 for products softening below 120 C. and 2.0 for products softening above 120 C., among different laboratories. Drawing D4 L4 2210. R 25 3ResinsSoftening Point Drop 1 15 45, Rev. 10 21 64 D4 L4 2210Top View of StopperEMI20.1 EMI20.2 FIGURE 1THERMOMETERWITH SAMPLEEMI20.3 SEP Cork SEP Stopped tb SEP t tb E SEP X tb SEP 1 e tb SEP SEP SEP a tb SEP SEP I tb SEP w tb SEP 4 SEP 4to4 1 41 SEP i tb SEP I tb SEP 1 SEP C tb SEP I SEP L1 tb SEP H SEP SEP l SEP SEP l tb FIGURE 2ASSEMBLY SHOWING APPEARANCE OFSAMPLE AT END POINT OF TEST R 25 3ResinsSoftening Point Drop 1 15 45, Rev. 10 21 64 APPENDIX SELECTION OF BATH TEMPERATURE In the case of new resins or resins of unknown softening range, it is necessary to make pilot determinations as follows. Melt the sample and prepare the thermometer in the regular way. Adjust the bath at a temperature about 10 C. above the expected softening point and insert the best tube carrying the sample thermometer. Maintain the bath at this temperature. Bath Temperature Too Low If the sample thermomether rises to 10 below the bath temperature before the softening point is reached, start heating the bath maintaining a differential of 100 between the sample thermometer and the bath thermometer until the softening point is reached. Record thus value as a pilot determination, readjust the bath temperature 14 above this point and repeat the determination. If not within the desired range, again adjust the bath temperature and repeat the determination. Select the bath temperature as follows If a softening point of 1320 is obtained on the pilot determination a bath temperature of 1450 is selected 132 14 146 or 145, which is the nearest multiple of 5 . Usually, the softening point obtained using this bath temperature will fall within 9 to 14 below the bath temperature. Bath Temperature Too High Should the bath temperature in the pilot determination be more than 14 above the pilot softening point, readjust it 9 above the pilot value and repeat the determination. If not within the desired range, age in adjust the bath temperature and repeat the determination. Selected the bath temperature an follows If a softening point of 1230 is obtained with a bath set at 140 in the pilot determination, the bath temperature should be readjusted to 130 123 9 132 or 130, which is the nearest figure which ends in 0 or 5 . The bath temperature thus selected is usually within the desired range. As a general policy the selcted bath temperature should be within the range of 9 to 14 C. above the softening point, and preferably should be on the high side, that is nearer to 14 above. The bath temperature should be a multiple of 5 , that is, it should end in either 0 or 5. Control Tests on New Resins For control tests on a new resin, adjust the bath temperature about 15 above the desired softening point which is usually a minimum specification and hold it at this temperature for all control samples. If R 25 3ResinsSoftening Point Drop 1 15 45e, Rev. 10 21 64 this temperature is not within the range of 9 to 14 above the softening point obtained on the final sample, readjust as above and retest the final sample. Prior to final establishment of a softening point specification on a new resin, several 10 20 representative batches should be r jn at different bath temperatures to insure selection of the proper bath temperature, When once decided upon and approved, it is important that the bath temperature selected for a particular resin be strictly adhered to for all subsequent tests on this resin unless special permission is obtained otherwise, the results obtain will not be directly comparable.