# Tape for tape automated bonding of integrated circuits and method of producing the tape.

## Abstract
A tape for use in tape automated bonding of integrated circuits is disclosed. A series of interconnection arrays fra mes are arranged along the tape, each array being formed by a number of interconnection beams 3. A terminal bump 6 is located on each beam 3 for bonding to a respective intercon nection pad 7 of an integrated circuit 8. Conventional bumps are made of gold plated copper and have uneven and unyiel ding bonding surfaces which can fail to provide consistent bonds. The bumps 6 of the tape disclosed comprise a conduc tive material having a Vickers hardness number of 55 or less, and thus have a compliance which facilitates more even bon ding. A method of producing the tape is also disclosed.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1 A tape for use in tape automated bonding of integrated circuits, the tape being provided along its length with a series of interconnection arrays, each array comprising a plurality of interconnection beams for bonding with interconnection pads of an integrated circuit, a terminal being provided on each interconnection beam for making a bond between that beam and a respective interconnection pad of an integrated circuit, characterised in that each terminal comprises a conductive material which has a Vickers hardness number of 55 or less, such that the terminal has a compliance which permits substantially even bonding of an entire boding surface thereof to its respective interconnection pad in use. 2 A tape according to claim 1, wherein each terminal is entirely formed by the conductive material. 3 A tape according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the conductive material is gold. 4 A tape according to claim 3 as dependent on claim 2, wherein each terminal comprises a core of relatively hard gold an an outer layer of relatively soft gold. 5 A tape according to claim 1, or claim 3 as dependent on claim 1, wherein the conductive material is one of a plurality of dissimilar metals which form each terminal. 6 A method of producing a tape according to claim 1, the method including the step of depositing a material or materials, for forming the terminals, only at locations on the tape which corlrespond to interconnection pads of the integrated circuit. 7 A method according to claim 6, wherein the material or materials is oz are deposited by electro plating. 8 A method according to claim 5 or 7, wherein gold is used as the material.

## Description
TAPE FOR TAPE AUTOMATED BONDING OF INTEGRATED CIRCUITS AND METHOD OF PRODUCING THE TAPE This invention relates to a tape for use in tape automated bonding of integrated circuits, and to a method of producing such a tape. Tape automated bonding is a known method of ma cing connections to the interconnection pads of integrated circuits. A length of tape such as conventional 35mm film base carries a series of interconnection arrays also known as frames for integrated circuits. Each array comprises a number of etched copper beams also known as leads or fingers , each beam being arranged for bonding with a respective interconnection pad of an integrated circuit. The bond between each beam and interconnection pad is made via a terminal known as a bump which is formed either on the interconnection pad or at a corresponding location on the beam. Re flow soldering or thermocompression is used to form the bond.Bumps formed initially on the interconnection pads of an integrated circuit are usually provided while the integrated circuit is still part of a larger wafer, and the provision of bumps is known as wafer bumping . Once bonded to the tape, individual integrated circuits and their respective interconnection arrays are excised from the tape for packaging for example, connection to a lead frameR of a conventional dualin line integrated circuit package, particularly a moulded plastics package. Alternatively, the tapebonded integrated circuits may be directly connected to a hybrid substrate or printed circuit board. The use of tape facilitates automation of the bonding process and automatic testing of bonded chips still on the tape if the beams are electrically isolated . For such automatic testing, the tape is loaded on a reel to reel transport mechanism associated with an automatic testing machine. Tapes are available for use in tape automatedbonding of specified integrated circuits. These tapes have interconnection arrays which are appropriate for the specified integrated circuits, the etched copper beams of the arrays each being provided with, for example, a gold plated copper bump. Such tapes are known as bumped tapes . Some integrated circuits are also available having interconnection pads provided with goldplated bumps for bonding to tape. Such integrated circuits are known as bumped chips . With known bumped tapes, however, the bumps can fail to provide consistently satisfactory bonds. We observed that a reason for this is that the bumps of, for example, copper formed on the copper beams have relatively hard, uneverl bonding surfaces which, even after gold plating, remain uneven and unyielding, causing poor adhesion to the aluminium, or other metal, interconnection pads of the integrated circuit. According to a first aspect of the invention there is provided a tape for use in tape automated bonding of integrated circuits, the tape being provided along its lentil with a series of interconnection arrays, each array comprising a zlurs.llity of interconnection beams for bollding witil interconnection pads of an integrated circuit, a terminal being provided on each inter connection beam for making a bond between that beam and a respective interconnection pad of an integrated circuit, characterised in that each terminal comprises a conductive material which has a Vickers hardness number of 55 or less, such that the terminal has a compliance which permits substantially even bonding of an entire bonding surface thereof to its respective interconnection pad in use. Each terminal could be entirely formed by the conductive material. The conductive material could be gold, in which case each terminal could have a core of relatively hard gold and an outer layer of relatively soft gold. The conductive material could instead be one of a plurality of dissimilar metals which form each terminal. According to a second aspect of the invention there is provided a method of producing such a tape, the method including the step of depositing a material or materials, for forming the terminals, only at locations on the tape which correspond to interconnection pads of the integrated circuit. The material or materials could be deposited by electroplating, or, instead, a respective substantially spherical mass of the material or materials could be deposited at each of the said locations on the tape and bonded thereto. The invention will now be described, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Figure i shows a plan view of a portion of tape for tape automated bonding, the Portion including three interconnection arrays Figure 2 shows a detailed view of an inner corner of an interconnection array of the tape shown in Figure 1 and Figure 3 shows a vertical, sectional view of a bond between an inner end of a beam of an inter connection array of the tape shown in Figure 1 and an interconnection pdd of an integrated circuit only part of which is shown . Referring to Figure 1, a tape for tape automatedbonding comprises a flexible, insulating carrier 1 in this case a 35mm film base formed by a strip of polyimide which is provided with a row of perforations 2 along both of its edges. Each of the three interconnection arrays shown comprises a plurality of goldplated copper interconnection beams 3 which have been produced by gold plating the required array pattern and then etching a copper layer which formerly occupied a region 4 between the two rows of perforations 2 .An aperture also known as a window approximately 8mm square is formed in the carrier 1 beneath each array to receive an integrated circuit to be bonded to the array. The dimensions of the windows depend on the dimensions of the integrated circuits to be bonded. These windows are indicated by the dotted lines 5 inFigure 1. Referring to Figure 2, the inner ends of five beams 3 are shown. The innermost end of each beam 3 carries a terminal or bump 6 which is made of a mass of gold having a shaped upper bonding surface for bonding with an interconnection pad of an integrated circuit. In Figure 3 a gold bump 6 at an inner end of a beam 3 is bonded to an interconnection pad 7 of an integrated circuit 8, which pad could, for example, be made of aluminium. In this case, the beam 3 and thus the tape, which is not shown is located above the integrated circuit 8 with its bump 6 facing downwards.Bonding of the bump 6 to the pad 7 is achieved by thermocompression. One method of forming the bumps 6 on the beams 3 the bumps 6 and beams 3 being made of dissimilar materials involves forming the bumps 6 separately from the beams 3 and attaching them thereto as a secondary operation. This method can be achieved by producing very small gold spheres and bonding them to the desired locations on gold plated copper tape. Such a method is known as an additive method. Another, semi additive method involves electroplating and is performed in the following steps. Initially, a tape, intended for tape automated bonding, is prepared. This tape comprises the conventional 35mm film base 1 mentioned above, to the region 4 of which a copper layer has been fixed by adhesive.The tape is prepared by first being physically abraded.A liquid resist is applied to the windows and baked hard. The surface of the copper layer 4 is then conditioned in an acid bath. After preparation, the tape is laminated with a 25 m layer of negative dry film photo resist. A mask of the required interconnection array is next used for an exposure, and the exposed image is developed. The resulting, exposed copper beams 3 of the array are chemically cleaned and baked and then reverse plated in concentrated orthophosphoric acid. The tape is next washed in deionised water and conditioned in a 10 orthophosphoric acid bath. The beams 3, having been prepared in this way, are now ready for electroplating with gold. After completion of the gold plating flashing of the beams 3 the gold bumps 6 can be formed. Firstly the remaining negative dry film photoresist is stripped off. The exposed copper is conditioned in an acid bath after which a 50bm layer of negative dry film photo resist is applied and a mask of the required bump locations on the array is used for an exposure.The resultant exposed bump image is developed and the exposed gold flashed pads are chemically cleaned and baked. Next the bump images are conditioned in a 10 orthophosphoric acid bath which is followed by a rinse in deionised water. Finally the images are gold plated until bumps 6 having a thickness of approximately 35pm have been built up, the walls formed in the appliedhoto resist defining the shape of the bumps 6. The negative photo resist is stripped off. The windows are then re sealed with liquid resist and baked hard. Finally the unplated copper layer 4 is removed by etching in ferric chloride. Any resist remaining on the back of beams 3 is removed in an alkaline stripper. The gold bumps 6 are particularly suited mecl,an ically and electrically to the thermocompression bonding process used, since the soft gold used is a compliant material which has Vickers hardness number of 55 or less typically 35 and which is more ductile than the relatively hard materials used for conventional bumps for example, the copper commonly used has a typical Vickers hardness number of 90 . Thus, the gold bumps 6 are capable of giving adhesion to integrated circuit pads which i superior to that provided by conventional bumps, the bonding achieved being substantially even over the entire bonding surfaces of the bumps. In order to provide good bonds by shearing the bonding surfaces, each bump should preferably have a rounded shape. Each bump 6 could also be built up by firstly depositing a core of relatively hard gold and secondly depositing an outer layer or relatively soft gold in order to provide a compliant bump. In practice, gold can have a Vickers hardness number in the range from 30 to 100 or more. Other such compliant materials could be used in place of gold to form each, or part of each, bump. Also, bumps could be formed by the successive electro plating of several dissimilar metals, in order to optimise the compliance and the electro chemical characteristics of the bumps. For example, bumps comprising tin and lead could be built up.