# Improvements relating to tubular sleeving.

## Abstract
Tubular sleeving 2 for cushioning cylindrical items such as flexible conduit control cable assemblies against shaffing is formed of soft, flexible, polyvinyl chloride with inwardly directed, triangular cross section, ribs 8 . The ribs are dimensioned frictionally to embrace the conduit whilst spacing the internal surface 6 of the sleeving from the conduit, thereby making for ease of assembly and an economy of material.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Tubular sleeving for effecting cushioning of cylindrical items characterised in that the internal surface 16 of the sleeving 2 is formed with a multiplicity of inwardly directed, angularly spaced, resiliently deformable, ribs 8 . 2. Tubular sleeving as claimed in Clain 1, characterised in that the ribs are of triangular crosssection each with an apex 10 directed inwardly. 3. Tubular sleeving as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2, characterised in that the sleeving is formed fran soft, flexible, polyvinyl chloride. 4. A flexible conduit control cable assembly arranged to pass through an aperture in a plate and provided with a tubular sleeving adjacent the plate to cushion the conduit portion of the assembly against chaffing against the plate at the aperture, characterised in that the tubular sleeving 2 is formed of soft, flexible, polyvinyl chloride with a multiplicity of inwardly directed, triangular cross section, ribs 8 having apices 10 lying on a circle of diameter slightly less than the outside diameter of the conduit portion such that the ribs of the tubular sleeving are a friction fit on the conduit portion and the internal surface 6 of the tubular sleeving is spaced from the conduit portion.

## Description
DESCRIPTION Improvements Relating to Tubular Sleeving. This invention relates to tubular sleeving and, mDre particularly, to tubular sleeving for cushioning cylindfrc al items such as flexible conducted control cables against chaffing and vibration. Hitherto, it has been the practice to cushion cables against chaffing on the edges of apertures in bulkheads and the like by gluing or force fitting a sleeve of resilient material in position on the cable. According to the present invention tubular sleeving for effecting cushioning of cylindrical items is formed with a multiplicity of inwardly directed, angularly spaced, resiliently deformable, ribs. The invention will now be described, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawing showning, in end elevation, a sleeve 2 for a flexible, wire wound, conduit for a cable control formed from soft, flexible, polyvinyl chloride material produced as an extruded tube 4. The internal surface 6 of the tube 4 is formed with twelve, equi angularly spaced, ribs 8 each having a triangular cross section with a radially inwardly directed apex 10.The internal diameter of a circle passing through the apices 10 of the ribs 8 is slightly less than the outside diameter of an associated conduit not shown such that the sleeve 2 is a push fit on the conduit but is retained in position on the conduit by virtue of the frictional effect between the ribs 8 and the conduit. The dimensions of the ribs 8 both as regards radial depth and base width are determined in relation to the resilience of the sleeve material, the conduit outside diameter, the number of ribs, the force desired to be exerted to slide the sleeve onto the conduit and the forces likely to be encountered liable to displace the sleeve when once in position on the conduit. By way of example, a sleeve for a clutch control cable for a motor vehicle was formed of soft, flexible, polyvinyl chloride. The cable had a conduit with an outside diameter of 10 millimetres and the sleeve 2 an outside diameter of 15 millimetres. Twelve, equi angularly spaced, ribs 8 were formed on the interior of the sleeve each with a triangular crosssection having a radial height of 1.1 millimetres, the radially inner apices 10 each having a 450 angle and being positioned on a circle of 9.15 millimetres diameter. In another exawple, a conduit with an outside diameter of 11 millimetrEs was provided with a sleeve 8 of an outside diameter of 20 millimetres. Twelve, equi angularly spaced, ribs 8 were formed on the interior of the sleeve each with a triangular crDss section having a radial height of 1.8 millimetres, the radially inner apices 10 each having a 450 angle and being positioned on a circle of 10.05 millimetres diameter. In both examples, the respective sleeve was manually positionable on the conduit and was retained in position on the conduit despite various chaffing effects where the sleeve passed through an aperture in a bulkhead. It will be appreciated that the foregoing form of sleeve obviates the need either to apply glue or to use relatively high forces to position the sleeve on the cable, and thereby speeds the assembly process. Fhrthermore, a saving in material is effected since for a given outside diameter of sleeve, by virtue of the provision of ribs, less material is required to form the sleeve. It has also been found that the provision of ribs spacing the sleeve from the cable tends to reduce transmission of noise compared with a sleeve conforming closely with the cable surfaces. Other resilient materials, such as a natural or synthetic rubber, may, of course, be utilised to form the sleeve. The sleeves may be utilised to cushion items other than control cables and the ribs may have a crDss section other than triangular.