# Fractional distillation process.

## Abstract
An improved process for the fractional distillation of a multi component liquid in a multiple tray fractional distilla tion column having at least one sidedraw tray is disclosed, the process being characterized by elimination of draw tray overflow from at least one sidedraw tray 5 , provision of a circulating reflux 7 , and removal of reflux 10 from the locus of the circulating reflux withdrawal zone.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Process for the fractional distillation of a multi component liquid in a multiple tray fractional distillation column com prising a vaporizing the multi component liquid in the multiple tray fractional distillation column, and fractionating the vapour to provide a vaporous overhead product stream, at least one intermediate sidedraw product stream, and a bottoms stream, the fractionation being carried out under conditions to proflue from at least one sidedraw tray of the column a total draw of liquid from the tray b withdrawing a circulating reflux stream from a circulating reflux withdrawal zone, said zone being at least two trays below the tray having a total draw of liquid, and removing heat from said circulating reflux stream in a heat ex change zone and returning a portion of said circulating reflux stream to a zone in the column below the tray having the total draw of liquid and c separating a portion of the reflux stream from the locus of the circulating reflux withdrawal zone. 2. Process according to claim 1, wherein the portion separated in step c is separated from the circulating reflux stream before the entry of the stream into the heat exchange zone. 3. Process according to claim 1. or 2, wherein the portion separated is combined with the liquid from the tot sidedraw stream. 14. Process according to any one of the claims 1 3, wherein the portion separated in step c and the liquid from the total sidedraw stream are sent to a fractional distillation zone, and distilled. 5. Process according to claim 1, wherein the liquid from the total sidedraw stream is distilled to provide a product stream which is combined with the portion separated in step c .

## Description
FRACTIONAL DISTILLATION PROCESS The invention relates to a process for the fractional distillation of a multi component liquid in a multiple tray fractional distillation column. More in particular, the invention relates to a process for the fractional distillation of a multi component liquid in a multiple tray fractional distillation column having at least one side draw tray, to provide a vaporous overhead product stream, at least one intermediate sidedraw product stream and a bottoms stream. Spiraling energy costs have renewed interest recently in the recovery of energy from a variety of energy sources. In particular, the recovery of thermal energy from chemical plant and refinery process streams has received considerable attention. Multiple sidedraw fractionating columns, such as crude oil distilling columns, catalytic cracking unit main fractionators, and thermal cracking unit fractionators, commonly have one or more circulating reflux systems to recover heat for re use.In the typical configuration of these systems, reflux liquid is withdrawn from the column, preferably a few trays below a sidedraw tray, circulated through heat exchangers, and returned to the column at the tray just below the sidedraw tray. Such liquid is normally referred to as circulating reflux. The column usually, although not always, is instrumented in such a way as to require some liquid overflow from the draw tray into the circulating reflux zone to provide a margin for control action.All sidedraw liquid and tray overflow, if any, represents column vapour that was condensed in condensing zones, either circulating reflux sections or the overhead condenser, higher in the column.These zones, because they are higher in the column, are at lower temperatures, and the heat removed is of lesser value because of its lower temperature. Because of this lower value, a process which upgrades the heat from a low grade heat source to a higher grade source has great economic importance. The object of the invention is to provide such an improved process. According to the invention the process for the fractional distillation of a multi component liquid in a multiple tray fractional distillation column thereto comprises a vaporizing the multi component liquid in the multiple tray fractional distillation column, and fractionating the vapour to provide a vaporous overhead product stream, at least one intermeoiate sidedraw product stream, and a bottoms stream, the fractionation being carried out under conditions to provide from at least one sidedraw tray of the column a total draw of liquid from the tray b withdrawing a circulating reflux stream from a circulating reflux withdrawal zone, said zone being at least two trays below the tray having a total draw of liquid, and removing heat from said circulating reflux stream in a heat ex change zone and returning a portion of said circulating reflux stream to a zone in the column below the tray having the total draw of liquid and c separating a portion of the reflux stream from the locus of the circulating reflux withdrawal zone. In particular, the invention comprises a process of the type described in which draw tray overflow is substantially eliminated and a portion of the reflux is removed from the locus of the circulating reflux withdrawal zone. As used herein, the term total draw of liquid is understood to allow quite minor amounts of overflow or liquid flow to trays below the sidedraw, while excluding any significant quantity of downward flow of liquid. The term locus of the circulating reflux withdrawal zone , as used herein, includes, but is not limited to, the column area or trays proximate to the circulating reflux withdrawal tray, as well as the circulating reflux line preceding, intermediate to, if more than one heat exchanger, and succeeding the heat exchanger s employed . For example, the reflux portion may be separated from the circulating reflux line or stream prior to heat exchange and combined with at least a portion of the sidedraw stream, the remainder of the cir culating reflux being returned to a zone or location in the column below the sidedraw tray.The heat of condensation of the overflow and that portion of the sidedraw provided from the circulating reflux is now, as a consequence of the new process, effectively withdrawn from a lower point in the column than before. Accordingly, this heat is available for re use at a significantly higher temperature. If the sidedraw and circulating reflux system employed are the highest such units in the column, the extra heat made available at the circulating reflux will have been moved effectively from the overhead condenser. The overhead condenser is the lowest temperature at which heat is removed from the system, and in most fractionating columns this heat is lost to cooling water or air. Either the temperature is too low for any use or more heat is avnlBble at this temper ature level than can be absorbed in the available process sinks. Thus, the improved process, in this case, has upgraded waste heat to a useful temperature level. In many cases, crude oil distilling columns in particular, the heat removed from circulating reflux systems is used to preheat the feed to the column. The flexibility afforded by this invention to move heat from a lower temperature source to a higher source makes it possible to match more closely the preheating requirements of the feed and to adjust to changing requirements as the feed properties change due to changes, for example, in the source of the crude oil. Thus, the thermal efficiency of the distilling unit is enhanced. when the light components in the sidedraw must be removed in a fractionating column, the sidedraw liquid may be fed, as usual, to the top or near top tray of the stripper, and the portion separated from the circulating reflux is sent to an appropriate location at a point below the top tray.In this way the thermal efficiency of the stripper is improved. In some cases only the sidedraw portion of the product may need to be stripped. For fractionators such as catalytic cracking unit main fractionators and thermal cracking unit fractionators, circulating reflux heat is often used to reboil distilling columns in the associated gas recovery train. In this case, heat at a temperature level below the lowest recovery column reboiler temperature is usually wasted to cooling water or air. The invention will make it possible to upgrade some of this waste heat to a temperature high enough for use as reboil heat. The term 1 tray , as used herein, includes bubble cap, valve type, or perforated plate trays, or modifications thereof, as well as equivalent structures. Packed columns may be used, since trays or equivalent structures will be utilized in the collection and removal of liquid. Again, the term column11 is understood to include a single structure or two or more such units in series, the designations of higher and upper merely referring to cooler temperature zones of such unit or units. The invention will now be described by way of example in more detail with reference to the accompanying drawings, wherein Figures 1 and 4 represent schematically the practice prior to the invention, and Figures 2, 3 and 5 represent schematically embodiments of the invention. As illustrated in Figure 1, a multi component liquid, such as crude oil, enters a conventional multiple tray fractional distillation column 1 via line 2. The liquid is fractionally distilled to produce an overhead line 3 , a bottom fraction line 14 and a number of sidedraw fractions, removable at various points in the column. For simplicity, product withdrawal is shown only from tray 5, line 6, although in practice, such columns contain a plurality of such side withdrawals. As shown, reflux is withdrawn via line 7, passed through heat exchangers 8 via pumping means 15, and returned via line 9 to a point in column 1 just below tray 5. Tray 5 may or may not be operated to provide liquid overflow. In some instances, the liquid in line 9 is returned to column 1 at a point above tray 5. In Figure 2, representing a first embodiment of the invention, corresponding numerals represent corresponding elements of Figure 1. In this embodiment, column 1 is operated in such a way that tray overflow at tray 5 is eliminated. Concomitantly, a minor portion of the liquid withdrawn in line 7 is sent via Jine 10 and combined with the liquid in or from line 6. The portion of total side product that is withdrawn from the circulating reflux stream will depend on the number of trays and the amounts of reflux in the column section above the sidedraw tray, the degree of fractionation needed, and the conditions of operation and cannot be stated with precision. In general, however, the reflux portion will be from 5 per cent to 200 per cent by volume of the total side draw stream in line 6.It is within the skill of the art to adjust the volume of circulating reflux utilized as side product to provide the maximum heat recovery within the constraint of sufficient fractionation between products, given the concepts described herein. As noted previously, those skilled in the art will recognize that the liquid does not have to be removed, per se, from line 7, but may be taken from column 1 as a stream in the general vicinity of or proximate to the withdrawal line 7. In Figure 3, representing a second embodiment of the invention, the portion separated in line 10 is sent to a stripper column 11 where remaining light components are stripped. Entry into column 11 is made at 12 to a point below the top tray. Light components are returned via line 13 to column 1. Product is removed via line 14. In order to demonstrate the efficiencies available by utilization of the invention, a comparison calculated of the prior method versus the procedure of the invention is given in the production of 39143 m3 per day of light oil side product 3 and 11405 m per day of naphtha. In the prior practice, vapour leaving column 1 shown in Figure 14 via line 20 will be at approximately 1425 K, and the required heat transfer in overhead condenser 21 will be 80712 x 103 kJ h. Liquid in accumulator 22 is at 373 K.Seat transfer in condensation stage 23 will be 3 1466314 x 103 kI h with a liquid temperature of 322 K in ac cumulator 214. Reflux to column 1 from accumulator 22 via line 25 will total 147514 m3 per day. Temperature of the liquid in line 7 will be about 529 K, and heat transfer in exchanger 8 will be 142202 x 103 kJ h. From line 6, 143140 m3 per day are provided to 3 stripper column 11, and 15720 x 103 kJ h are transferred in reboiler 26. In Figure 5, by operating in accordance with the invention, the temperature in line 20 will be 1420 K, the heat transfer in condenser 21 will be 314711 x 103 kJ h, and the heat transfer in heat exchanger 23 will be 58145o x 103 kJ h. Reflux in line 25 is 3 reduced to 2083 m per day. The temperature of the liquid in line 7 will be 504 K, and the heat transfer in heat exchanger 8 3 will be 72272 x 103 kJ h. The sidedraw in line 6 will be 2178 m3 per day and the portion separated in line 10 will total 2003 m3 per day. The heat transfer at reboiler 26 will be 9390 x 103 kJ h. Product removed in line 27 will total 19140 m3 per day, and the combined flows of lines 10 and 27 will thus total 39143 m3 per day.As is readily evident, the transfer duty of condenser 21 has been substantially reduced, providing more useful transfer in heat exchanger 8. In this example, only the portion of the sidedraw product that is taken from the product draw tray requires stripping, and the stripper size and reboiler duty are signi ficantly reduced. While the invention has been illustrated with respect to particular apparatus, those skilled in the art will appreciate that, as indicated, other equivalent or analogous structures may be employed. Again, all pumps, valves, entry and exit lines, etc , have not been illustrated, as such expedients can readily be supplied by the skill of the art.