# Reciprocating piston internal combustion engine.

## Abstract
A reciprocating piston internal combustion engine com prises a piston 10 , a connecting rod 14 , an elongated elastic member 18 secured at its one end onto the connecting rod and extending into the inside of the piston, a sliding member 22 secured on the other end section of the elongated elastic member and thrusted against and kept in sliding contact with the wall of the engine cylinder by virtue of a thrust force exerted thereon, the thrust force increasing as the inclination angle of the connecting rod 14 relative to the engine cylinder axis N decreases along with the ascent movement of the piston, thereby effectively reducing piston slap noise.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A reciprocating piston internal combustion engine, comprising a piston 10 movably disposed within an engine cylinder 12 a connecting rod 14 for connecting said piston with a crankshaft an elongated elastic member 18 secured at its one end section onto said connecting rod and extending into the inside of said piston 10 a sliding member 22 secured on the other end section of said elongated elastic member 18 , said sliding member 22 being thrusted against and kept in sliding contact with the wall of said engine cylinder by the elasticity of said elongated elastic member 18 and means for increasing a force by which said sliding member 22 is thrusted against the engine cylinder wall, as the inclination angle of said connecting rod relative to the axis N of said engine cylinder 12 decreases in accordance with the ascent movement of said piston 10 . Figs. 2 and 3 2. A reciprocating piston internal combustion engine as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said sliding member 22 is in sliding contact with the engine cylinder wall 12b at the minor thrust side to which cylinder wall the minor thrust surface of said piston 10 is capable of being thrusted. Figs. 2 and 3 3. A reciprocating piston internal combustion engine as claimed in Claim 2, wherein said elongated elastic member 18 is secured onto said connecting rod 14 at the side which is located opposite to the minor thrust side cylinder wall 12b . Figs. 2 and 3 4. A reciprocating piston internal combustion engine as claimed in Claim 3, wherein said piston 10 has a cylindrical wall section 10c which is formed with an opening 24 located at the minor thrust surface 10b , in which said sliding member 22 projects out of said piston cylindrical wall section 10c through said opening 24 and is in sliding contact with the minor thrust side cylinder wall 12b . Figs. 2 and 3 5. A reciprocating piston internal combustion engine as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said elongated elastic member 18 is in the form of a plate spring. Figs. 2 and 3 6. A reciprocating piston internal combustion engine as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said sliding member 22 is made of a material selected from the group consisting of aluminium alloy and copper alloy. Figs. 2 and 3 7. A reciprocating piston internal combustion engine as claimed in Claim 4, wherein said opening 24 of said piston cylindrical wall section 10 is in such a size as to prevent said sliding member 22 from striking against the periphery of said opening 24 in spite of the relative movement between said piston 10 and said connecting rod 14 . Figs. 2 and 3 8. A reciprocating piston internal combustion engine as claimed in Claim 4, wherein said opening 24 of said piston cylindrical wall section 10c is so formed that said sliding member 22 strikes against the upper periphery of said opening at a timing slightly before top dead center. Figs. 2 and 3

## Description
RECIPROCATING PISTON INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINEBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 1. Field of the Invention This invention relates generally to a reciprocating piston internal combustion engine provided with a measure for decreasing piston slap noise, and more particularly to a piston which is provided with means for thrusting the piston upon a major thrust side cylinder wall at a timing far before top dead center. 2. Description of the Prior Art It is well known in the art, that piston slap noise is generated due to the lateral reciprocal movement of piston within an engine cylinder during compression and power strokes of a reciprocating piston internal combustion engine. In order to reduce such piston slap noise, so called piston pin offset has already been widely employed in which a piston pin is slightly offset from the center line of the piston. This reduces piston slap noise to some extent however cannot reduce it to a desired low level, while raising a new problem in which the piston is moved in the direction to rotate around the piston rod.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION In accordance with the present invention, a recipro cating piston internal combustion engine comprises a piston movably disposed within an engine cylinder, and a connecting rod for connecting the piston with a crankshaft. An elongated elastic member is secured at its one end section onto a connecting rod and extends into the inside of said piston. Additionally, a sliding member or shoe is secured on the other end section of the elongated elastic member. The sliding member is thrusted against and kept in sliding contact with the wall of the engine cylinder by virtue of the thrust forces exerted thereon. The thrust force increases as the inclination angle of the connecting rod relative to the axis of the engine cylinder decreases in accordance with the ascent movement of the piston.Therefore, the piston can be shifted from the minor thrust side cylinder wall to the major thrust side cylinder wall at a timing far before top dead center2 thereby effectively reducing piston slap noise.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS The features and advantages of the reciprocating piston internal combustion engine according to the present invention will be more clearly appreciated from the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which like reference numerals designate like parts and elements, and in which Figs. 1A and 1B are illustrations for explaining piston movements during compression and power strokes, respectively, in a conventional engine with piston pin offset Fig. 2 is a vertical sectional view of an essential part of a preferred embodiment of a reciprocating piston internal combustion engine in accordance with the present invention and Fig. 3 is a side elevation of the essential part of the engine of Fig. 2.DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION Referring to Figs. 1A and 1B, a conventional reciprocating piston internal combustion engine will be described along with its major shortcomings. In such an engine, at compression stroke as shown in Fig. 1A, a forceF1 acts on a piston 1 so that the piston 1 is thrusted rightward in the drawing. At power or expansion stroke, the piston 1 receives a force F2 which acts leftward in the drawing since the inclination of a connecting rod 5 becomes reversed relative to that at the compression stroke.When the force acting on the piston 1 changes from F1 to F2, the piston 1 is moved from its rightmost position where the piston 1 is thrusted at its so called minor thrust surface upon a minor thrust side cylinder wall 4 to its left most position thus striking at its so called major thrust surface against a major thrust side cylinder wall 3, thereby generating piston slap noise. It will be well known in the art, that such a piston slap noise is due to slap force which becomes higher as gas pressure within an engine cylinder increases. In this regard, in order to decrease such piston slap noise, it has already been carried out to offset the location of a piston pin 2 toward the major thrust surface of the piston 1 relative to the cylinder center line by a predetermined distance Q for example, about 1 mm as indicated in Figs. 1A and 1B, so that the piston 1 can be pressed against the major thrust side cylinder wall 3 as early as possible when it descends from top dead center. However, even with such a conventional arrangement, piston slap noise has not been lowered to a desired level. Because, the conventional arrangement can offer a minor effect for very slightly advancing the top dead center of the piston relative to that of a crank system and the transition of piston movement from the minor thrust side cylinder wall to the major thrust side cylinder wall unavoidably occurs at a position in close proximity to top dead center. Besdies, since the piston pin is offset, the gas pressure applied to a piston crown generates a moment which causes the piston 1 to rotate around the piston pin, thus raising the lateral oscillation movement of the piston. This might cause piston crown and skirt section to strike against the cylinder wall, thereby forming a further noise source. In view of the above description of the conventional reciprocating piston internal combustion engine, reference is now made to Figs. 2 and 3, wherein a preferred embodiment of a reciprocating piston internal combustion engine according to the present invention is illustrated.The engine comprises a piston 10 which is movably disposed within an engine cylinder 12. The piston 10 has a so called major and minor thrust surfaces 10a, 10b which are located opposite to each other. The major thrust surface 10a is thrusted against a major thrust side cylinder wall 12a by a relatively major thrust at power or expansion stroke, whereas the minor thrust surface 10b is thrusted against a minor thrust side cylinder wall 12b by a relatively minor thrust at compression stroke. A connecting rod 14 is provided to connect the piston 10 with a crankshaft not shown . Accordingly, the small end of the connecting rod 14 is mounted on a piston pin 16 supported by the piston 10, and the large end of the connecting rod 14 is mounted on the crankshaft. An elongated elastic member 18 in the form of a plate spring is secured at its one end section onto the surface of the connecting rod 14 by means of a bolt 20 which surface is located opposite to the minor thrust side cylinder wall 12b. The elongated elastic member 18 is made, for example, of spring steel and extends upwardly into the inside of the piston 10 or of the cylindrical section 10c of the piston 10. Disposed at the other end or free end of the elongated elastic member 18 is a sliding member or shoe 22 which is made of aluminium alloy, copper alloy or the like. The sliding member 22 is formed by casting and secured to the elongated elastic member 18 by means of boltconnection, caulking or the like. As best shown in Fig. 3, the piston 10 is formed at its cylindrical section 10c with an opening or window 24 through which the sliding member 22 projects out of the piston 10 and is brought into contact with the minor thrust side cylinder wall 12b. Accordingly, the window 24 opens at the minor thrust surface lOb of the piston 10. In this connection, the window 24 has such a size that the sliding member 22 does not contact the periphery of the window 24 even upon the relative movement between the piston 10 and the connecting rod 14. Thus, the sliding member 22 is effectively thrusted against and brought into sliding contact with the minor thrust side cylinder wall 12b by the elasticity of the elongated elastic member 18. The manner of operation of the above mentioned arrangement will be discussed hereinafter. During operation of the engine, the sliding member 22 supported by the connecting rod 14 is thrusted against the minor thrust side cylinder wall 12b with a thrust force F and slides upwardly and downwardly on the surface of minor thrust side wall 12b. The thrust force F, in turn, acts as a rection force F through the connecting rod 14 and the piston pin 16 onto the piston 10. When the piston 10 ascends to approach the top dead center by the rotation of the crankshaft in the direction of X in Fig. 2, the inclination angle of the connecting rod 14 relative to the axis N of the engine cylinder 12 decreases to increase the thrust force F and accordingly the reactin force F. Otherwise, the force corresponding to F1 in Fig. 1A exerted to thrust the piston 10 against the minor thrust side cylinder wall 12b decreases as the piston 10 approaches the top dead center. As a result, when the force F becomes larger than the force corresponding to F1 , the piston 10 is shifted from the minor thrust side cylinder wall 12b to the major thrust side cylinder wall 12a. Thus, the piston 10 can be thrusted against the major thrust side cylinder wall 12a before gas pressure exerted on the crown of the piston 10 has not yet been higher. This effectively reduces piston slap noise, thereby reducing total engine noise. Furthermore, according to the present invention, it is possible to arrange the axis of the piston pin 16 to intersect the engine cylinder axis without socalled piston pin offset, and therefore forces caused by gas pressure are balanced with each other during two rotations of the piston pin 16. This suppresses to the minimum the possibility of causing the lateral oscillation movement of the piston 10, thereby effectively preventing piston crown periphery and piston skirt from unusual striking against the cylinder wall, thus contributing to further noise reduction. Additionally, the piston 10 and cylinder 12 are effectively prevented from wear, thereby improving durability of the engine.Moreover, unnecessary friction between the piston 10 and the cylinder 12 can be reduced and therefore fuel economy can be improved. It is preferable to so arrange that the upper section of the sliding member 22 strikes against the upper periphery of the window 24 at a timing slightly before top dead center, by which the curvature of the elastic member 18 increases to develop a further larger force to thrust the sliding member against the cylinder wall, thereby enhancing the assistance to the movement of the piston 10 against the major thrust side cylinder wall 12a. As will be appreciated from the above, according to the present invention, the piston can be shifted from the minor thrust side cylinder wall to the major thrust side cylinder wall at a timing far before the top dead center. Therefore, the slap force of the piston can be greatly decreased, thereby effectively reducing piston slap noise. Additionally, since it is unnecessary to employ the above mentioned piston pin offset, the piston can be prevented from its unusual striking against the cylinder wall.