# Compounds, having antibiotic activity, obtainable by cultivating Streptomyces bottropensis.

## Abstract
Compounds of the general formula I

## Claims
Claims 1. A compound of formula I EMI24.1 wherein R represents the group.EMI24.2 or a hydrogen atom and the salts thereof. 2. A compound as claimed in claim 1 represents by the formula EMI25.1 or a salt thereof. 3. A compound as claimed in claim 1 represented by the formula EMI25.2 or a salt thereof. 4. A compound as claimed in claim 1 in substantially pure form. 5. A process for preparing a compound as defined in claim 1, which comprises culturing a microorganism of the genus Streutomyces and capable of producing a compound as defined in claim 1 in a culture medium to accumulate a compound as defined in claim 1 in the culture broth and recovering the said compound therefrom. 6. A process as claimed in claim 5,in which the microorganism is Streptomyces bottropensis FERM PNo. 5219 NRRL 12051 . 7. A process as claimed in claim 5, in which the microorganism is a mutant strain of Streptomyces bottropensis FERM P No. 5219 NRRL 12051 capable of producing a compound as defined in claim 1. 8. A process for preparing a compound as defined in claim 2, which comprises subjecting a compound of the general formula B EMI26.1 wherein R3 represents a group of the formulaEMI26.2 orEMI26.3 to acid hydrolysis and recovering the compound defined in claim 2 from the hydrolysis mixture. 9. A process for preparing a compound as defined in claim 3 which comprises subjecting a compound as defined in claim 2 or a compound of formula B as defined in claim 8 to acid hydrolysis and recovering the compound as refined in.claim 3 from the hydrolysis mixture. 10. A pharmaceutical composition for human or veterinary use comprising as active ingredient at least one compound of formula I as defined in claim 1, or a pharmacologically acceptable salt thereof, in association with a pharmacologically acceptable carrier or excipient. 11. A compound of formula I as defined in claim 1 or a pharmacologically acceptable salt thereof for use as antibiotic or anti tumour agent.

## Description
Compounds having antibiotic activity, processes for their preparation, pharmaceutical composrtions containing them and their use as medicaments The present invention relates to compounds having antibiotic activity, processes for their preparation, pharmaceutical compositions containing them and their use as medicaments. In Japanese Patent Application No. 137,734 79 as laid open to public inspection as Kokai Koho Sho 56 61398 61398 81 on 26 May 1981 andin European Patent Appli cation No. 80303807.4 we describe certain substances having antibiotic activity which substances we designate DC 45 A, DC 45 B, and DC 45 B2 which may be obtained by culturing a microorganism of the genus Streptomyces, preferably Strep tomyces bottropensis formerly designated Streptomyces ochraceus FERM P No. 5219 NRRL 12051 . The physico chemical and antibiotic characteristics of DC 45 A, DC 45 31 and DC 45 B2 are described in the aforementioned Japanese and European Patent Applications. The substances DC 45 A, DC 45 B1 and DC 45 R2 are represented by the following general formula A EMI1.1 wherein i R1 and R2 together with the carbon atom therebetween represent the grouEMI2.1 and R3 representsEMI2.2 designated DC 45 A ii R1 represents OH, R2 represents CH2OH and R3 representsEMI2.3 designated DC 45 B1 or iii R1 and R2 together with the carbon atom therebetween represent the grouEMI2.4 and R3 representsEMI2.5 designated DC 45 B2 . The present invention. is based upon the discovery that new substances which we have now recovered from the cultured broth obtained by culturing the said strain of Stretomyces bottropensis FERM P No. 5219 NRRL 12051 possess interesting physiological activity and in particular antibiotic activity. According to one feature of the present invention, therefore, we provide a compound having antibiotic activity and possessing the formula I EMI2.6 wherein R represents the group EMI3.1 ora hydrogen atom or a salt thereof. The substances of the general formula I have been designated by us as DC 45 A1. and DC 45 A2. The physicochemical characteristics of DC 45 A1 and DC 45 A2 are as follows The physico chemical characteristics of DC 45 A represented by the following formula II EMI3.2 are as follows 1 Melting point 184 186 0C Decomp. 2 Elemental analysis H 5.96, C 57.77 3 Molecular weight 704 4 Molecular formula C34 H40 016 5 Ultraviolet absorption spectrum. As shown in Fig. 1 in methanol 6 Infrared absorption spectrum As shown in Fig. 2 by KBr method 7 Specific rotation alpha D25 103 c 0.5, CHCl3 8 PMR spectrum in CDC13, TMS standard ppm 1.07 3H,s 1.24 3H, dJ 6.4 many peaks between 1.50 2.50 2.14 3H,s 2.60 3H, s 3.02 1H, dJ 5.4 3.13 lH, DJ 5.4 3.46 t3H,s 3.63 3H,s 3.84 3H,s many peaks between 4.50 5.50 7.43 lH,s l4.3 lH,s 9 CMR spectrum in CDC13, TMS standard ppm 16.9 20.5 20.9 25.7 36.7 dual 50.2 56.6 57.0 62.7 63.0 68 0 dual 68.9 69.2 69.4 73.3 74.4 98.3 99.0 100.1 104.1 107.4 114.8 115.4 116.7 126.5 135.4 143.0 144.9 151.6 163.0 170.4 203.1 10 Solubility Soluble in methanol, ethanol, acetone, ethyl acetate and chloroform, soluble with difficulty in benzene and aqueous ether, and insoluble in n hexane. The physico cnemical characteristics of DC 45 A2 represented by the following formula EMI4.1 are as follows 1 Melting point 152 158OC Decomp. 2 Elemental analysis H 5.23, C 57.80 3 Molecular weight 518 4 Molecular formula C25H26 012 5 Ultraviolet absorption spectrum As shown in Fig. 3 in methanol 6 Infrared absorption spectrum As shown in Fig. 4 by KBr method 7 Specific rotation a 25 97.5 c 0.5, CHC13 8 PMR spectrum in CDC13, TMS standard ppm Many peaks between 1.50 2.50 2.61 3H,s 3.01 1H, dJ 4.6 3.13 1H, dJ 4.6 3.46 3R, s 3.62 3H,s 3.92 3H,s many peaks between 4.50 5.50 7.43 lH,s 14.0 lH,s 9 CMR spectrum in CDCl3, TMS standard 20.5 37.3 50.0 56.6 57.0 61.8 63.1 67.8 69.1 69.4 73.4 99.0 100.0 104.0 107.4 114.3 115.1 116.2 129.3 135.5 142.6 144.3 151.4 162.1 2036. 10 Solubility Soluble in methanol, ethanol, acetone, ethyl acetate and chloroform, soluble with difficulty in benzene, ether and water, and insoluble in n hexane. The compounds of formula I DC 45 A1 and DC 45 A2 and the salts thereof may for example be in substantially pure form. The Rf values of DC 45 A1 and DC 45 A2 are shown inTable 1, in which the Rf values were determined by thin layer chromatography.using silica gel Kieselgel 60 Art 5721, commercial product of E. Merck, West Germany and developed for 3 hours at. room temperature. Formula I depicted herein relates to compounds in a number of different forms such forms depending on the position of certain substituentsabove or below the plane of the paper.All such forms of the compounds of formula I are within the scope of the present invention. Thus for example the compounds of formula I contain asymmetric carbon atoms and all such optically active isomers and mixtures thereof are within the scope of the present invention. TABLE 1No. Substance Rf valueI. Chloroform methanol DC 45 A 0.85 90 1 v v DC 45 B1 0.50 DC 45 B2 0.45 DCL45 A1 0.71 DC 45 A2 0.44II. Ethyl acetate acetic acid DC 45 A 0.70 90 1 v v DC 45 B1 0.25 DC 45 B2 0.35 DC 45 A1 0.71 DC 45 A2 0.46 Figs. 1 and 2 show respectively the ultraviolet and infrared absorption spectra of DC 45 A1. Figs. 3 and 4 show respectively the ultraviolet and infrared absorption spectra of DC 45 A2. DC 45 A1 and DC 45 A2 can each form salts with metals such as alkali metals, alkaline earth metals and aluminium. For pharvanceutical use the salts of DC 45 A1 and DC 45 A2 will be pharmacologically acceptable such as the sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium and aluminium salts. Other salts may however be used for example in the preparation of the pharmacologically acceptable salts. Such a salt may for example be prepared by reacting DC 45 A1 or DC 45 A2 with an appropriate metal hydroxide or alkoxide. As stated above the compounds DC 45 A1 andDC 45 A2 possess. antibiotic activity and this activity is shown inTable 2, the activity being determined by the agar dilution method at pM 7.0. TABLE 2 Minimum Inhibitory Concentration llg ml Microorganism tested DC 45 A1 A2 Staphylococcus aureus ATCC 6538P 0.4 100Bacillus subtilis No. 10707 0.04 100 Klebsiella pneumoniae ATCC 10031 n .4 12 Salrronella tyMosa ATCC 9992 50 50 Escberichia coli ATCC 26 12 25 According to a further feature of the present invention, there is provided a process fpr preparing a compound of the invention hereinbefore defined and designatedDC 45 A1 and DC 45 A2 , which process comprises culturing a microorganism of the genus Streptomyces and capable of producing a compound of the invention as hereinbefore defined in a culture medium to accumulate a compound of the invention as hereinbefore defined in the culture broth and recovering the said compound of the inven ticn therefrom. Although any and all microorganisms of the genusStreptomvces capable of producing DC 45 A1 and or DC 45 A2 may be used for the purpose of the present invention, it is preferred to use microorganisms of the species Streptomyces bottropensis formerly designated Streptomyces ochraceusDC 45 FERM P No. 5219 NRRL 12051 or a mutant thereof capable of producing DC 45 A1 and or DC 45 A2. The taxonomic characteristics of FERM P No. 5219 are disclosed inEuropean Patent Application No. 80303807.4 and JapanesePatent Application 137,734 79 referred to hereinbefore. Streptomyces bottropensis FEREI P No. 5219 NRRL 12051 was filed with the NRRL on 6 October 1979 and became available to the public on 9 October 1979. As stated above any mutant strain of Streptomyces bottropensis FERM P No. 5219 NRRt 12051 capable of producing DC 45 A1 and orDC 45 A2 may be used in the process of the present invention, such mutants being obtained for example by conven tionel mutation processes e.g. mutagenic chemicals or mutagenic radiation. Various methods used.conventionally for culturing the microorganisms of the genus Streptomyces may, for example, be used for the purpose of the present invention.Various nutrients which may be used are exemplified as follows. Thus, for example, glucose, starch, dextrin, mannose, fructose, sucrose, lactose, xylose, arabinose, mannitol, waste molasses and the like may be used as carbon sources alone or in combination, although it is possible to use, depending upon the assimilability of the strain used, various hydrocarbons, alcohols and organic acids. Ammonium chloride, ammonium sulfate, ammonium nitrate, sodium nitrate, urea, peptone, meat extract, yeast extract, dry yeast, corn steep liquor, soybean meal and casamino acid may for example be used as a nitrogen source, alone or in combination.If desired, various inorganic salts such as, for example, sodium chloride, potassium chloride, magnesium chloride, calcium carbonate, potassium mono or di hydrogen phosphate, ferrous sulfate, calcium chloride, manganese sulfate, zinc sulfate, copper sulfate and the like may be used alone or in combination. Moreover, for example, vitamin B, biotin and other trace compounds may conveniently be used to promote the growth of the microorganism and to enhance the production of the desired DC 45 substances of the present invention. Fdr the fermentation of the desired substances of the present invention, liquid culturing procedures, in particular submerged culturing with stirring are preferred.The fermentation is preferably effected at a temperature of from 25 to 400C for example, 28 to 380C . The pH of the medium is preferably from 4 to 10 for example 6 to 8 which may be adjusted by adding, for example, aqueous ammonia or ammonium carbonate solution to the medium. In general, the desired substances DC 45 A1 and or DC 45 A2 may be produced and accumulated in the culture broth by effecting the liquid culturing for 1 to 7 days. When the amount of the desired substance s in the culture broth reaches its maximum, the fermentation is discontinued. The culture broth is then filtered to separate the microbial cells from the filtrate. Any and all of the desired substances of the present invention may be isolated and purified by various methods conventionally used.to separate and purify various metabolic products present in the culture broth of microorganisms. For example1 after separation of the cells from the culture broth, the cellfree filtrate having a pH of B.O is passed through a column packed with a non ionic resin for example, Diaion HP 20, commercially available from Mitsubishi Kasei Kogyo K.X.,Tokyo to adsorb the active substances onto the resin, from which the active substances may be eluted by using, for example, methanol, acetone or ethyl acetate. The eluted fractions are. concentrated to dryness.Celite powders are used to adsorb the active substances, and the powders are chromatographed by using a column packed with silica gel which has been suspended in chloroform. Chloroform and a mixture of chloroform methanol 200 1 v v are successively passed through the column to remove impurities, and then the column is eluted by using a mixture of chloroform methanol 150 1 v v to give the fractions containing DC 45 A. A mixture of chloroform methanol 100 1 v v is then applied to the column to elute the fractions containing DC 45 A1. The following elution using a solvent system of chloroform methanol 70 1 v v gives the fractions containing DC 45 B1. Finally, a mixture of chloroform methanol 50 1 v v is used to elute the fractions containing a mixture of DC 45 A2 and DC 45 B2. The fractions containing DC 45 A1 and DC 45 A2 are respectively combined and concentrated to dryness. The fraction containing DC 45 A1 is chromatographed by using a column packed with silica gel which has been suspended in a mixture of cyclohexane ethyl acetate 1 1 v v . A mixture of cyclohexane ethyl acetate l lv v is passed through the column to remove impurities, and the column is eluted by using a mixture of cyclohexane ethyl acetate 1 3 v v so that DC 45 A1 is eluted in substantially pure form, concentrated and treated with n hexane to obtain powders of DC 45 A1. The fraction containing DC 45 A2 is chromatographed by using a column packed with silica gel which has been suspended in a mixture of chloroform ethyl acetate 1 1 v v . A mixture of ethyl acetate chloroform 1 1 v v is passed through the column to remove impurities, and the column is eluted by using a mixture of ethyl acetate chloroform 5 1 v v to elute DC 45 A2 in substantially pure form which is concentrated and treated with n hexane to yield powders of DC 45 A2. From the general formulae of DC 45 A, DC 45 A1, DC 45 A2, it will be appreciated that DC 45 A2 may be used as starting material for the preparation pf DC 45 A1 and its derivatives. It is also possible to prepare DC 45 A1 and DC 45 A2 by acid hydrolysis of DC 45 a or DC 45 B2. Thus according to.a further feature of the present invention there is provided a process for preparing the compound DC 45 A1 which comprises subjecting a compound of the general formula B EMI11.1 wherein R3 represents a group of the formulaEMI11.2 orEMI11.3 to acid hydrolysis and recovering DC 45 A1 from the hydrolysis mixture. According to a still further feature of the present invention there is proVid d a process for preparing the compound DC 45 A2 which comprises subjecting the compoundDC 45 A1 or a compound of formula Li as hereinbefore defined to acid hydrolysis and recovering the compound DC 45 A2 from the hydrolysis mixture. Acid hydrolysis may be effected in the following manner. A Preparation of DC 45 A1 DC 45 A and or DC 45 B2 is subjected to acid hydrolysis using for example hydrochloric acid or sulfuric acid conveniently in the presence of an organic solvent such as, for example, methanol, acetone and the like. The product is then neutralized for example using lead carbonate. The resultant precipitate e.g. lead chloride or lead sulfate and for example the excess lead carbonate are removed from the reaction mixture by filtration. The filtrate may be chromatographed using a column packed with silica gel which has been suspended in chloroform. Chloroform and a mixture of chloroform methanol 200 1 v v are successively passed through the column to remove impurities, and the column is eluted by using a mixture of chloroform methanol 100 1 v v to obtain the fractions containing DC 45 A1.The fractions are concentrated and chromatographed by using a column packed with silica gel which has been suspended in a mixture of cyclohexane ethyl acetate 1 1 v v . A mixture of cyclohexane ethyl acetate 1.1 v v is used to elute the fraction containing DC 45 A1 without impurities. The resultant fraction is concentrated to yield pure DC 45 A1. B Preparation of DC 45 A2 DC 45 A, DC 45 B2 and or DC 45 A is subjected to acid hydrolysis using for example, hydrochloric acid or sulfuric acid, conveniently in the presence of an organic solvent such as, for examples methanol and acetone. In this case, it is preferred to effect the acid hydrolysis for a longer period of. time and or to use the acid at a higher concentration than in the case of the preparation of DC 45 A1. The decomposed product is then neutralized for example by using lead carbonate. The resultant precipitate e.g. lead chloride or lead sulfate and for example the excess lead carbonate are removed from the reaction mixture by filtration.The filtrate is chromatographed by using a column paced with silica gel which has been suspended in a mixture or chloroform ethyl acetate 1 1 v v to remove im impurities, and the column is eluted by using a mixture of ethyl acetate chloroform 5 1 v v to obtain the fractions containing DC 45 A2 without impurities. The resultant fractions are combined and concentrated to dryness to yieldDC 45 A2 in pure form. In both cases A and B the acid hydrolysis may be effected at a convenient temperature, for example, from ambient t the boiling point of the reaction mixture. According to another feature of the present invention, there is provided a pharmaceutical composition for human or veterinary use, comprising as active ingredient a compound of formula I e.g. DC 45 A1 and or DC 45 A2 or a pharmacologically acceptable salt thereof in association with a pharmacologically acceptable carrier or excipient.The composition may be presented in a form suitable for oral, rectal or parenteral administration. Thus, for example, composition for oral administration may be solid or liquid and may be in the form of granules, tablets, coated tablets, capsules, syrups, emulsions, suspensions or drops, such compositions comprising carriers or excipients conventionally used in the pharmaceutical art. Thus, for example, suitable tabletting excipients include lactose, potato and soluble starches and magnesium stearate. For parenteral adrninistration, the carrier may be a sterile, parenterally acceptable liquid such as, for example, water, a physiological solution cf sodium chloride, glucose solution, or a pharmaceutically acceptable oil such as, for example, arachis oil, contained in ampoules. Compositions fur rectal administraticn may take the forms of suppositories, the carriers comprising a suitable suppository base. Advantageously, the cccsition may be formulated as dosage units, each being adapted to supply a fixed dose of the active ingredient. Tablets, coated tablets, capsules, suppositories and ampoules are examples of suitable dosage unit forms. The active ingredient may be a salt of and or DC 45 A2, for example, with an alkali metal, alkaline earth metal, aluminium and the like such as soRium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, aluminium and the like, which may be prepared by using a hydroxide or alkoxide of an appropriate metal in conventional manner. The present invention also provides DC 45 A1 and orDC 45 A2 hereinbefore defined or a pharmacologically acceptable salt thereof for use as an antibiotic, In addition to an antibiotic activity the compounds DC 45 A1 and DC 45 A2 and the pharmacologically acceptable salts thereof have also been found to possess an anti tumour activity and the acute toxicity and anti tumour activity of DC 45 Al and DC 45 A2 are as follows. I Acute toxicity test Male mice ddy strain weight 20i2 g each group consisting of 5 mice were used as the test animals, and samples of the present substances were injected ip or iv into the vein at the tail at a single dose of 0.2 ml mouse.The samples used were prepared by multiple dilution of the present substances. On each occasion, the healthy condition of the mice was observed for 14 days, and the death ratio was expressed by LD50 values calculated by Behrens Körber s method. The results are shown in Table 3, TABLE 3Substance tested Injection by Acute tonicity LD50 mg kg DC 45 Ai i.p. 0.375 i.v. 0.375 DC 45 A2 i.p. 5.8 14.0 i.p. Intraperitoneal i.v. Intravenous3 II Anti tumour activity tests I Sarcoma 180 solid tumour Sarcoma 180 tumour cells were implanted in a mouse. After 7 days from the implantation, ascites cells were collected from the mouse and washed with 0.82 solution of sodium choloric. . Cell suspension containing 5 x 107 cells ml was prepared. The cell suspension each 0.1 ml was implanted into the mice male ddY strain weight 19 1 g subcutaneously at axillary region.Then the sample of the anti tumour agent of the present invention was injected i.v. into the tail of each mouse each group consiting of 5 mice . On each occasion, the sample was first administered 24 hours after the implantation, and the administration was continued for 6 days at an interval of 24 hours. In order to determine the antitumour activity of the sample, on each occasion, the major axis a and minor axis b of the tumour were measured at 7th day after the implantation, and the volume of the tumour T of the test animal was expressed by a x bê x 1 2. The anti tumour activity was determined by the ratio T C wherein C is the corresponding volume of the tumour of the control group . The results are shown in the followingTable 4. 2 ED50 The term ED50 used in this specification denotes the dose of sample needed to give the volume T of Sarcoma 180 solid tumour to 50 of the volume of the tumour C of the control group, and is calculated in the following manner.The correlation between the dose of sample and the T C was obtained by plotting the dose and T C on the ordinate and abcissa axes respectively of logarithmic graph paper.The linear dose response to antitumour activity was calculated by the least square method and exhibited. A dose which gave T C 0.5 was defined as ED50. When the maximum permissible dose of the sample did not give a T C of less than G.5, the ED50 was not determined. The results are indicated in the following Table 4. TABLE 4 T C and ED50 mg kg A Compounds tested B Dose mg kg day C Number of daily administrations D Numbers of mice surviving after. 7 days A B C T C D ED50DC 45 A1 0.375 X 1 Toxic 2 5 0.25 X 1 0.41 5 5 0.22 0.125 X 1 0.83 . 5 5 0.0625 X 1 0.93 5 5 0.1875 X 6 0.37 4 5 0.125 X 6 0.43 5 5 0.076 0.0625 X 6 0.54 5 5 0.0313 X 6 0.62 5 5 DC 45 A2. 10 X 1 0.09 4 5 7.5 X 1 0.21 5 5 4.47 5 X 1 0.53 5 5 2.5 X 1 0.75 5 5 5, X 6 0.16 5 5 3.75 X 6 0.35 5 5 2.25 2.5 X 6 0.57 5 5 1.25 X 6 0.64 5 5 TABLE 4 continued A B C T C D ED50 DC 45 A 0.6 X 1 Toxic 2 5 0.4 X 1 0.56 4 5 0.2 X 1 0.76 5 5 0.4 X 6 Toxic 3 5 0.3 X 6 0.40 5 5 0.23 0.2 X 6 0.58 5 5 0.1 X 6 0.74 5 5 DC 45 B2 1.0 X 1 Toxic 3 5 0.75 X 1 0.54 5 5 0.5 X 1 0.80 5 5 0.25 X 1 0.75 5 5 0.5 X 6 0.42 4 5 0.375 X 6 0.55 5 5 0.41 0.25 X. 6 0.69 5 5 0.125 X 6 0.63 5 5 Control compounds disciosed in Japanese Patent Application 137,734 79 laid open to public inspection as Kok2i Koho Sho 5661398 61398 81 Table 4 clearly indicates that DC 45 A1 and DC 45 A according to the present invention exhibit anti 2 tumour activity whether administered in a single daily dosage or administered in six dosages per day and that their T C values at the maximum permissible doses are smaller than the corresponding T C values of DC 45 A andDC 45 B2 used as the control compounds. Thus it is believed that DC 45 A1 and DC 45 A2 possess a strong antitumour effect. For use as antibiotic agents and or anti tumour agents, it is preferred to administer DC 45 A1 for example, at a dose of 0.001 to 0.05 mg kg and DC 45 A2 for example, at a dose of 0.02 to 1.0 mg kg once daily by intravenous injection, DC 45 A1 and DC 45 A2 being dissolved for example in a physiological solution of sodium chloride or a glucose solution conventionally used for the preparation of injecting agents. However, the dose may vary, depending upon various conditions such as, for example, the age and symptoms of the patient, and the times of the administration may also vary, depending for example, upon the amount of the compound to be administered and may be administered, for example, once within a week or once within a month. If desired, it. is also possible to administerDC 45 A1 and DC 45 A2 orally at the corresponding dose for example, 3 10 times the dose of the oral administration . The following non limiting examples illustrate the present invention, in which the substances designatedDC 45 A, DC 45 B1, DC 45 32, DC 45 A1 and DC 45 A2 were respectively traced by their strong fluorescences. Example 1 Streptomyces bottropensis formerly designatedStreptomyces ochraceus DC 45 FERM P No. 5219 NRRL 12051 is used as the seed strain. The seed strain is inoculated into a seed medium 15 litre containing KC1 4 g l , MgSO4 7H2O 0.05 g l , KH2PO4 l.5 g l , ammonium sulfate 5 g l , sucrose 20 g l , fructose 10 g 1 , glucose 10 g l , corn steep liquor 5 g l and CaCO3 20 g l pR 7.0 before sterilization, adjusted with NaOH in a 30 litre jar fermenter. The fermentation is effected at 300C for 48 hours with stirring 220 r.p.m. min. to obtain a seed culture which is transferred into a 300 litre jar fermenter containing a medium 150 litre having the composition as hereinafter defined at a ratio of 5 v v .Composition of the fermentation medium Glucose 30 g l , soluble starch 10 g l , Farmamedia 10 g l cotton seed meal, commercially available fromTraders Oil Mill Co., U.S.A. , K2HPO4 1 g l , MgSO47H2O 1 g l , NaC1 3 g l , CuSO4 5H2O 70 mg l , FeSO4 7H2O 10 mg l , MnC12 4H20 8 mg l , ZnSO47H2O 2 mg l and CoC12 6H2O 0.006 mg l pH 7.0 before sterilization, adjusted with NaOH. The pH of the medium is not controlled during the fermentation which is effected at 300C for 72 hours with shaking and aeration 180 r.p.m. 150 litre min. . After completion of the fermentation, the microbial cells and precipitates are removed from the cultured broth by filtration, resulting in a filtrate 130 litre . The filtrate is passed through a column packed with 10 litres of a non ionic porous resin Diaion HP 10, commercially available from Mitsubishi Kasei Kogyo Kit., Tokyo to adsorb the active substances onto the resin which is then washed with water about 20 litre , followed by washing with 50 v v methanol about 20 litre to remove impurities.After this elution is effected by using methanol. The methanol fractions, about 10 litre in total are collected, combined and concentrated to dryness in vacuo, and the dried material is dissolved in 0.lM phosphate buffer solution pH 7.0 . The solution is extracted three times with an equal amount of ethyl acetate. The ethyl acetate layers are combined and concentrated and the concentrate is adsorbed onto Celite to obtain a powder. Separately, the microbial cells wet weight about 2 kg are suspended in acetone about 50 litre to extract the active substances. The extract is concentrated to dryness in vacuo and the dried material is dissolved in a 0.1M phosphate buffer solution pH 7.0 . The solution is extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The ethyl acetate layers are collected, combined and concentrated, and the concentrate is adsorbed onto Celite to obtain a powder. These powders are combined and carefully put on a column packed with silica gel Wako Gel, commercially available from Wako Junyaku K.K., Japan 5 litre which has been suspended in chloroform. Chloroform and a mixture of chloroform methanol 200 1 v v are successively passed through the column to remove impurities, and then the column is eluted by using a solvent system of chloroform methanol 150 1 v v to obtain the fractions containing DC 45 A.By subsequent elution by using a mixture of chloroform methanol 100 1 v v , the fractions containing DC 45 A1 are obtained. After this the fractions containing DC 45 B1 are obtained by elution using a mixture of chloroform methanol 70 1 v v . At last, the fractions containing both DC 45 A2 and DC 45 B2 are obtained by elution using a mixture of chloroform methanol SO 1 v v . The fractions containing DC 45 A1 are collected, combined and concentrated to dryness in vacuo in the following manner. The combined fractions containingDC 45 A1 are chromatographed by using a column packed with silica gel which has been suspended in a mixture of cyclohexane ethyl acetate 1 1 v v . A mixture of cyclohexane ethyl acetate 1 1 v v is passed through the column to remove impurities, and the column is eluted by using a mixture of cyclohexane ethyl acetate 1 3 v v to obtain the fractions containing DC 45 A1 which are collected, combined and concentrated to dryness. n Hexane is added to the dried material to yield a powder of DC 45A1 15 mg . The fractions containing DC 45 A2 and DC 45 B2 are collected, combined and concentrated to dryness. The dried material is chromatographed by using a column packed with silica gel which has been suspended in a mixture of chloroform ethyl acetate 1 1 v v in the following manner.A similar mixture of chloroform ethyl acetate is passed through the column to remove impurities, and the column is eluted by using a mixture of ethyl acetate chloroform 5 1 v v to obtain the fractions containing DC 45 A2 which are collected, combined and concentrated to dryness.The dried material is treated with n hexane to yield a powder of DC 45 A2.Example 2 DC 45 A 500 mg is dissolved in a 0.1 hydrochloric acid methanol solution 10 ml and the solution is allowed to stand at room temperature for 4 hours. Then, lead carbonate 100 mg is added to the reaction mixture for neutralization. The solution is filtered, and the filtrate is concentrated to dryness and chromatographed by using a column packed with silica gel which has been suspended in chloroform. Chloroform and a mixture of chloroform methanol 200 1 v v are successively passed through the column to remove impurities, and a solvent system of chloroform methanol 120 1 v v is used for elution of the fractions containing DC 45 A1. The fractions are collected, combined and concentrated. The concentrate is chromatographed by using a column packed with silica gel which has been suspended in a mixture of cyclohexane ethyl acetate 1 1 v v .A mixture of cyclohexane ethyl acetate 1 1 v v is passed through the column to remove impurities, and the column is eluted by using a solvent system of cyclohexane ethyl acetate 1 3 v v to obtain the fractions containingDC 45 A1 which are collected, combined and concentrated to dryness. The dried material is treated with n hexane to yield a powder of DC 45 A1.Example 3 DC 45 A 500 mg is dissolved in a 0.1 hydrochloric acid methanol solution 10 ml and allowed to stand at room temperature for 8 hours. Then, lead carbonate is added to the reaction mixture for neutralization. The mixture is filtered to remove the resultant lead chloride and the excess lead carbonate, and the filtrate is concentrated to dryness. The concentrate is chromatographed by using a column packed with silica gel which has been suspended in chloroform. Chloroform and a mixture of chloroform methanol 120 1 v v are successively passed through the column to remove impurities. Then a solvent system of chloroform methanol 60 1 v v is used to elute the fractions containing DC 45 A2 which are collected, combined and concentrated to dryness.The dried material is chromatographed by using a column packed with silica gel which has been suspended in a mixture of chloroform ethyl acetate 1 1 v v . The mixture of chloroform ethyl acetate 1 1 v v is passed through the column to remove impurities, and the column is eluted by using a solvent system of chloroform ethyl acetate 1 5 v v to obtain the fractions containing DC 45 A2 which are collected, combined and concentrated to dryness, followed by treating with n hexane to yield a yellow powder of DC 45 A2 120 mg .Example 4 DC 45 A1 200 mg obtained by the method ofExample 3 is dissolved in a 0.1 hydrochloric acid methanol solution 5 ml and allowed to stand at room temperature for 4 hours. Lead carbonate 50 mg is added to the reaction mixture for neutralization. The mixture is then filtered to remove the resultant lead chloride and the excess of lead carbonate added. The filtrate is concentrated to dryness and treated in a similar manner to that described in Example 4 to yield DC 45 A2 95 mg .Example 5 Preparation of parenteral injection DC 45 A2 2.0 g is dissolved in distilled water 1000 ml and made aseptic by using a Millipore filter pore size 0.22 p commercially available from MilliporeCorpn., U.S.A. . The aseptic filtrate thus obtained is divided into fractions each 5 ml , each of which is put into a brown vial so that each vial contained 10 mg ofDC 45 A2. The vials are left to stand at an atmospheric temperature of 500C for 24 hours to freeze the contents and are then subjected to primary drying at an atmospheric temperature of 100C for 24 hours under a pressure of 0.1 mmHg. After confirmation of the temperature of the contents being the same as the atmospheric temperature, the second drying is effected at an atmospheric temperature of 400C for 4 hours under a pressure of 0.1 mmHg to remove moisture content. After this, the vials are sealed using rubber stoppers. In use, a sterilized physiological solution of sodium chloride each 5 ml is added to each vial with stirring so that the ingredient dissolved to obtain an injection solution.