# Dual fuel injection nozzles.

## Abstract
Gas turbine engines can be selectively operated on either a gaseous fuel or a liquid fuel or on both types of fuel at the same time by means of dual fuel injection nozzles 114 of the air blast type. A centrally disposed primary air passage 220 extends through an elongate body 158 in each nozzle and an annular liquid fuel passage 172 surrounds the primary air passage. A gas fuel shroud 162 surrounds the body to provide a passage 176 for gaseous fuel which opens through a plurality of discharge ports 328 inclined towards the axis of the nozzle.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A dual fuel injection nozzle 114 of the air blast type comprising an elongate cylindrical body 158 a centrally disposed primary air passage 220 extending through the body and opening at one end 306 thereof an annular liquid fuel passage 172 concentrically surrounding the primary air passage and opening at the same end of the body as the primary air passage a gas fuel shroud 162 surrounding the cylindrical body and forming therewith an annular supply passage 176 for gaseous fuel which concentrically surrounds the liquid fuel passage and opens at the one end of the body through an annular array of discharge ports 328 inclined toward the longitudinal axis 308 of the body. 2. A dual fuel injection nozzle 114 according to claim 1, which has a passage 218 in the body through which air under pressure can be introduced into the primary air passage 220 to promote the atomization of liquid fuel during start up. 3.. A dual fuel nozzle 114 according to claim 1 or claim 2, which has an air shroud 184 forming a secondary air passage around the gas shroud 162 , the secondary air passage being tapered at its discharge side towards the longitudinal axis 308 of the body at a position beyond, the one end 306 thereof. 4. A dual fuel nozzle 114 according to claim 3, having means 182 within the air shroud 184 for imparting a swirl to air passing through the secondary air passage in use to stabilize the flame from the nozzle. 5. A gas turbine engine 10 comprising a compressor 12 a turbine 46, 48 for driving the compressor and for producing kinetic energy in a useful form a combustor 32 for generating hot gases to drive said turbine and means for selectively supplying either a gaseous fuel or a liquid fuel or both to the combustor, said means comprising an array of dual fuel injection nozzles 114 as defined in any of claims 1 to 4. 6. A gas turbine engine 10 according to claim 5, therein the fuel injection nozzles 114 are equidistantly spaced in a circular array and wherein the means for supplying the liquid fuel to the nozzles comprises upper and lower arcuately shaped fuel manifolds 110, 112 forming together a substantially circular configuration, the circular array of equiangularly spaced fuel injection nozzles being spaced substantially concentrically within the manifolds fuel lines 116 connecting the fuel injection nozzles to respective manifolds at generally equidistantly spaced locations therealong means 122 for supplying fuel to the upper manifold at the opposite ends thereof a fuel supply line 120 connected between the fuel supplying means and the lower manifold substantially mid way between the ends of the latter and means 126 in the fuel supply line for creating a pressure drop to cause the fuel to be distributed at substantially equal rates through the upper and lower fuel manifolds. 7. A gas turbine engine 10 according to claim 6, wherein the means in the fuel supply line for creating the pressure drop is a check valve 126 oriented to allow fuel to flow from the fuel supply means through the fuel supply line to the lower manifold. 8. A gas turbine engine 10 according to claim 6 or claim 7, in which the liquid fuel supply system 108 includes means for draining fuel from the lower manifold coincidentially with the shutdown of the engine with which the fuel supply system is associated, the means comprising a fuel return line 128 connected between the fuel supplying means 122 and the lower manifold 112 adjacent the fuel supply line 120 and a check valve 130 in the fuel return line which is oriented to allow fuel to flow from the lower manifold into the fuel supplying means when the pressure in the latter falls below the pressure in the lower manifold. 9. A gas turbine engine 10 according to any of claims 5 to 8, in which the fuel supplying means of the liquid fuel supply system comprises a first, generally semicircular fuel line 122 surrounding the lower manifold 112 and connected at its opposite ends to the ends of the upper manifold 110 and a fuel supply line 120 communicating with the fuel line approximately mid way between the ends of the latter. 10. A gas turbine engine 10 according to any of claims 5 to 9, wherein the means for supplying gaseous fuel to the dual fuel injection nozzles comprises a circular manifold 268 surrounding the combustor 32 and fuel lines 270 connecting the manifold to the injection nozzles.

## Description
DUAL FUEL INJECTION NOZZLF,c The present invention relates to dual fuel inJection nozzles of the air blast type, specifically and more particularly for use in gas turbine engines to enable selective operation on either a liquid fuel or a gaseous fuel such as natural gas or sewage gas, or on dissimilar fuels at the same time. Operation on both liquid and gaseous fuels is often an important capability of a gas turbine engine.In pulping applications, for example, this makes it possible to operate the engine on almost any combustible product being pumped. Also, dual fuel operating capability makes it possible to operate the gas turbine engine on the most economical of available fuels and to continue operation of the engine when the supply of a particular fuel is limited or the fuel becomes unavailable or is interrupted. Furthermore, in some instances, it may be easier to start an engine on a gaseous fuel, but impractical to run it on a fuel of that character. Dual fuel operating capability solves that problem. In other circumstances, it may be desirable to operate the engine on two different types of fuel simultaneously. Gas turbine engines that can be operated on both gaseous and liquid fuels are not new and dual fuel inJectors affording this capability are disclosed in US A 3,131,996 US A 3,285,007 US A 3,630,024 US A 3,690,093 US A 3,691,765 US A 3,777,983 US A 3,788,067 US A 3,866,415 and US A 4,157,012. According to the present invention a dual fuel injection nozzle of the air blast type comprises an elongate cylindrical body a centrally disposed primary air passage extending through the body and opening at one end thereof an annular liquid fuel passage concentrically surrounding the primary air passage and opening at the same end of the body as the primary air passage a gas fuel shroud surrounding the cylindrical body and forming therewith an annular supply passage for gaseous fuel which concentrically surrounds the liquid fuel passage and opens at the one end of the body through an annular array of discharge ports inclined toward the longitudinal axis of the body. Preferably such a nozzle has a passage in the body through which air under pressure can be introduced into the primary air passage to promote the atomization of liquid fuel during start up. Such nozzles are superior to those typically available in that present state of the art liquid fuelin air blast atomizing techniques are combined with a new and novel gas mixing technique and also with air assist to promote atomization at light off. The nozzle preferably includes an air shroud forming a secondary air passage around the gas shroud, the secondary air passage being tapered at its discharge side towards the longitudinal axis of the body at a position beyond, the one end thereof. A thin film of liquid fuel is thus discharged in an annulus between two, swirling, primary and secondary streams of air to optimize the atomization characteristics. More specifically, the filmed liquid contacts a high velocity swirling stream of primary combustion air exiting from the primary air passage, atomizing the fuel and initiating the formation of a fuel air mixture. At the same time the swirling secondary air flows radially inward, continuing the atomization of the fuel and mixing with it the centrally discharged, swirling air. A third stream of swirling air can be contacted with the atomized fuel and just discussed streams of swirling air to create the proper fuel air stoichiometry and the fuel air mixture swirl angle, distribution, and recirculation needed for efficient combustion. In preferred embodiments of the invention, operation on gaseous fuels is similar. Carefully designed ports direct the fuel radially inward where it mixes with the swirling secondary air streams without impinging on the secondary air shroud, thereby avoiding the flow disturbances and consequent loss of combustion efficiency this has caused in the past. The gassecondary air mixture then expands radially outward and is mixed with the third, outer stream of swirling air. As in the case of liquid fuel operation, this creates the fuel air stoichiometry and the fuel air mixture swirl angle, distribution, and recirculation needed for efficient combustion. Yet another advantage of the present invention, attributable at least in part to these novel dual fuel injection nozzles is that a gas turbine engine equipped with it can be started on either a gas or liquid fuel and that switching can be accomplished while the engine is under the load and in a matter of a few seconds. A further advantage of these dual fuel injection nozzles is that they are compatible with air assist which may be required during light off or start up of a gas turbine engine when the compressor is typically rotating at only a fraction of its normal speed and the compressor discharge air may accordingly not be capable or producing enough energy to efficiently atomize liquid fuel. In that case, a separately driven compressor can be activated to supply air under pressure to the fuel inJection nozzles to assist in atomizing the liquid fuel. By means of dual fuel injection nozzles in accord with the invention an engine equipped therewith is provided with the capability of operating on a wide variety of gas and liquid fuels independantly or simultaneously, efficient combustion is promoted and the emission of smoke from the engine can be minimized. Furthermore, the construction of such nozzles avoids the impingement of gaseous fuel on fuel injection nozzle components that has in the past caused flow disturbances, degradation of combustion efficiency, and loss of durability in gas turbine engines operated on gaseous fuels. An example of an injection nozzle according to the invention and a gas turbine engine employing such nozzles will now be described with reference to the accompanying drawings in which Figures 1A and 1B, taken together, constitute a partly sectioned side view of one gas turbine engine which can be equipped with dual fuel nozzles constructed in accordance with the present invention Figure 2 shows, schematically, The combustor of the gas turbine engine illustrated in Figures 1A and 1B and, in more detail, the manifold and fuel line system for supplying liquid fuel to the combustor Figure 3 is a fragmentary section through certain components of the liquid fuel supply system taken substantially along line 3 3 of Figure 2 Figure 4 is a longitudinal section through one of the dual fuel nozzles Figure 5 is a partial view of the inlet end of the nozzle it is taken substantially at right angles to the section identified as Figure 4 Figure 6 is a fragment of Figure 4 to an enlarged scale Figure 7 is an external view of the combustor it also shows manifolds and associated lines incorporated in the fuel supply system and employed to supply gas as well as liquid fuels to the fuel injection nozzles and to supply air under pressure to them to assist in the atomization of liquid fuel during lightoff or start up Figure 8 is a fragment of Figure 1B to a larger scale showing the upstream or dome end of the gas turbine engine combustor and one of the several fuel injection nozzles and, Figure 9 is a schematic illustration of one exemplary system for supplying assist air to the fuel injection nozzles. Referring now to the drawing, Figures 1A and 1B depict a two shaft, gas turbine engine 10 which is equipped with a dual fuel supply system see Figures 2 7 embodying and constructed in accord with the principles of the present invention. Engine 10 includes a fifteen stage axial flow compressor 12 with a radial axial inlet 14. Inlet guide vanes 16 and stators 18 of the compressor are supported from compressor housing 20 with the guide vanes and the stators 18 1. through 18 5 of the first five stages being pivotally mounted so that they can be adjusted to control the flow of air through the compressor. The fifteen stage rotor 22 of compressor 12 is composed of discs 24 with vanes 26 fixed thereto. The discs are joined e.g. by electron beam welding into a single unit. Compressor housing 20 is split longitudinally on a vertical plane through the axial centerline of the housing into two sections 20a only one of which is shown . This accommodates installation of the compressor rotor and facilitates access to the rotor blades, guide vanes, and stators for inspection, cleaning, and replacement. The high pressure air discharged from compressor 12 flows through an annular, diverging diffuser 28 into an enlarged plenum 30 and from the latter to an annular combustor 32 housed in a case 34. The hot gases generated in combustor 32 are discharged into a nozzle case 42 supported in an annular turbine housing 44. The hot gases are expanded first through a two stage gas producer turbine 46 and then through a two stage power turbine 48. Gas producer turbine 46 has internally cooled, first and second stage nozzles 50 and 52 and a twostage rotor 54. The first stage 56 of gas producer turbine rotor 54 includes a disc 58 to which internally cooled, radially extending blades 60 are fixed. The second stage 62 includes a disc 64 with uncooled, radially extending blades 66 mounted on its periphery. The two stages of gas producer turbine rotor 54 are bolted to each other and, in cantilever fashion, to the rear end of a forwardly extending shaft 68.Shaft 68 is keyed to rear compressor hub 70 which is bolted to compressor rotor 22, thereby drive connecting gas producer turbine 46 to the compressor rotor. The compressor rotor and gas producer turbine are rotatably supported by a thrust bearing 72 engaged with a front compressor hub 74 drive connected to an accessory drive 76 and by tapered land bearings 78, 80, and 82. Power turbine 48 includes first and second stage nozzles 84 and 86 also supported from nozzle case 42 and a rotor 88 having a first bladed stage 90 and a second bladed stage 92 bolted together for concomitant rotation. Neither the nozzles nor the rotor are cooled. Rotor 88 is bolted to a shaft assembly 94 rotatably supported by tapered land bearings 96 and 98 and by a thrust bearing 100. The shaft assembly is connected through a coupling 102 to an output shaft assembly 104 which is the input for a generator, booster compressor, mechanical drive, or other driven unit. Another major component of turbine engine 10 is an exhaust duct 106 for the gases discharged from the power turbine. For the most part, the details of the gas turbine engine components discussed above are not relevant to the practice of the present invention. Therefore, they will be described only as necessary to provide a setting for and facilitate an understanding of the latter. Referring now primarily to Figures 2 and 7, liquid fuel is supplied to the combustor 32 of gas turbine engine 10 by a liquid fuel supply system 108 which includes an upper manifold 110, a lower manifold 112, and injection nozzles 114 supplied with fuel from upper manifold 110 through fuel lines 116 and from lower manifold 112 through fuel lines 118. Fuel is supplied to the upper manifold 110 through fuel lines 120 and 122 and to the lower manifold 112 through a fuel line 124 extending between that manifold and fuel supply line 122. A check valve 126 is incorporated in fuel line 124 for purposes that will become apparent hereinafter. Finally, fuel supply system 108 also includes a fuel return line 128 connected between lower manifold 112 and fuel line 122. A second check valve 130 is incorporated in the fuel return line. The upper and lower manifolds 110 and 112 together make up what is termed a split manifold. Both are of semicircular configuration and, together, they concentrically encircle casing 34 of combustor 32 The two manifolds are fastened together in this relationship by bracketsl32 which are not of critical construction as far as the present invention is concerned. The fuel lines 116 and 118 through liquid fuel flows from the upper an lower manifolds to fuel injection nozzles 114 extend radially inward from the manifolds to the injection nozzles at essentially equal intervals therearound. At their outer ends, they are connected to the manifolds by tubular fittings 134 best shown in Figure 3. Apertures 136 in the fittings and 138 in the manifolds with which they are associated provide communication between the latter and fuel lines 116 and 118. The line 122 through which fuel is supplied to upper manifold 110 is, like the latter, of generally arcuate configuration. It is spaced concentrically from, and surrounds1 lower manifold 112 and its upper ends 140 and 142 are connected, on opposite sides of the fuel supply system, to the lower ends 144 and 146 of upper manifold 110. The line 120 by which fuel line 122 is supplied communicates with the latter at the bottom thereof and mid way between the upper ends 140 and 142 of line 122. Particularly under the low fuel pressure conditions existing at light off, the hydraulic head H across the fuel supply system would result in the fuel reaching those fuel injection nozzles 114 toward the bottom of combustor 32 much more rapidly than the uppermost injection nozzles if a simple ring type manifold were employed to supply fuel to the injection nozzles. This inequality of flow distribution is significantly reduced in the illustrated liquid fuel supply system 108 by the flow equalizing arrangement composed of fuel line 124 and check valve 126. Specifically, fuel line 124 is connected between line 122 and lower manifold 112 approximately mid way between the two ends 148 and 150 of the lower manifold, the liquid fuel thereby flowing from line 122 through line 124 into, and in opposite directions through, the lower manifold. Check valve 126, which is oriented to allow fuel to flow in the direction just described, is.set to open when the pressure in fuel line 122 reaches onehalf of the hydraulic head H across the system. That reduces the fuel pressure at the bottom of lower manifold 112 and, consequently, the pressure vertically across that manifold check valve outlet pressure H 2 more nearly equals the pressure across the upper manifold 110 and its fuel supply line 122 line pressure in 122 H than would otherwise be the case. Also, by thus reducing the effect of the hydraulic head across fuel supply system 108, the arrangement just described results in a more uniform flow of fuel to the fuel injection nozzles at different elevations during the operation of the engine with which the fuel supply system is associated. This, too, results in more efficient combustion and lower emission levels. The final feature of fuel supply system 108 alluded to above fuel return line 128 is provided so that fuel can drain from lower manifold 112 back into fuel lines 122 and 120 when the engine with which the fuel supply system is associated is shut down. The check valve 130 in line 128 is oriented for fuel flow in that direction. As long as the engine is running and fuel is being supplied to it through fuel lines 120 and 122, the pressure in line 122 is higher than that in lower manifold 112 by virtue of the pressure drop across check valve 126 and valve 130 accordingly remains closed. When the engine is shut down, however, the pressure in lines 120 and 122 drops and the hydraulic head on the fuel in the lower manifold consequently causes the check valve to open, thereby allowing the fuel to drain out of the manifold through return line 128. As shown in Figure 2, combustor 32 has a circular section, and the fuel injection nozzles 114 are spaced around this casing in a circular array at essentially equal intervals with the discharge or downstream ends of the injectors located inside of, and discharging atomized fuel into, combustor 32. Fuel injection nozzles 114 are of the air blast type. Fuel supplied to the nozzles is atomized by air discharged from the compressor 12 of gas turbine engine 10 and mixed with an appropriate amount of air and the fuel air mixture is then discharged into combustor 32. Referring again to the drawing, Figures 4 6 illustrate, in more detail, one of the fuel injection nozzles 114 referred to above. Fuel injection nozzles 114 are component parts of the liquid fuel supply system 108 employed to introduce liquid fuel into the combustor 32 of gas turbine engine 10. As suggested above, and as will be described in detail hereinafter, these same nozzles can also be utilized to instead, or simultaneously, introduce a gaseous fuel such as natural gas or sewer gas into the combustor. The illustrated fuel injection nozzle 114 includes an elongate, circularly sectioned stem 156 and a nozzle body 158 and shrouds 160 and 162, all oriented at a right angle to stem 156. The nozzle body extends, at its upstream end, into a cylindrical bore 164 through the inner end of the stem and it is jointed to the stem e.g. by brazing. Shroud 160 cooperates with nozzle body 158 at the downstream or discharge end thereof to form an annular discharge passage 172 for liquid fuel. The upstream end of shroud 160 surrounds nozzle body 158 and the shroud is fixed to the nozzle body, again typically as by brazing. The second of the above mentioned shrouds 162, concentrically surrounds, and cooperates with, nozzle body 158 and shroud 160 to form an annular passage 176 for gaseous fuels. At its upstream end, shroud 162 is seated in an annular recess 178 at the inner end of fuel injection nozzle stem 156 it is there joined to the latter. At its forward or discharge end, shroud 162 supports an array of equiangularly spaced, radially extending, secondary air swirl vanes 182, only two of which are shown. Surrounding, and supported by, swirl vanes 182 is a cylindrical, secondary air shroud l84, This shroud supports an array of equiangularly spaced, radially extending swirl vanes 186, two of which are shown in Figure 4. The fuel injection nozzle stem 156 from which the just described components are supported is made up of an inner component 188 in which the nozzle body accepting bore 164 is formed, a heat shield 190 surrounding the latter, and a mounting flange 192. As best shown in Figure 4, the external surface 194 of component 188 is reduced in width over much of the length of the fuel injection nozzle stem. This, in cooperation with heat shield 190, provides a dead air space 196 which insulates stem member 188, and the fuel flowing through it, from elevated ambient temperatures externally of the fuel injection nozzle. Mounting plate or fitting 192 is seated on, and positioned along, fuel injection nozzle stem 156 by an annular flange 198 on the latter. Longitudinally extending passages not shown for liquid fuels, gaseous fuels, and assist air employed to promote atomization at light off are formed in fuel injection nozzle stem member 188. Fuel introduced into the passage for liquid fuels flows through it and then through fuel distribution orifices in the nozzle body likewise not shown into the liquid fuel discharge passage 172 between the nozzle body and shroud 160. The passage in fuel injection nozzle stem 156 for gas fuels is inclined toward the discharge end of the injection nozzle at the inner end of the passage.There, it communicates with the annular gaseous fuel passage 176 formed between nozzle body 158 and shroud 162. Assist air introduced into nozzle stem 156 flows from the latter through an inclined passage 218 in that component into a primary air passage 220 which extends from end to end of nozzle body 158 and is concentric with the axial centerline of that component. Primary air is introduced into passage 220 through the entrance 222 thereto at the upstream end of the nozzle body. A swirler 224 is mounted in a recess 226 at the upstream end of nozzle body 158 to impart a rotational component to primary air introduced into central passage 220. Referring now primarily to Figure 5, liquid fuels, gaseous fuels, and assist air are introduced into the passages in fuel injection nozzle stem 156 through fittings 234, 236, and 238, respectively. The details of those fittings and the manner in which they communicate with the several flow passages in the fuel injection nozzle stem 156 are not part of my invention. These details will accordingly not be taken up herein. The system via which liquid fuel reaches the just described fitting 238 of fuel injection nozzle 114 was described above. Referring now to Figure 7, gaseous fuels are supplied to fuel injectors 114 via a circular manifold 268 which also surrounds and is supported from combustor case 34. Lines 270 spaced equiangularly therearound connect the manifold to the several fuel injection nozzles 114. As shown in Figure 7, gas turbine engine 10 is also equipped with a circular or annular air assist manifold 272. Like the gas and liquid fuel manifolds, the air assist manifold surrounds and is supported from the combustor case. That manifold is connected to the fittings 238 of the several fuel injection nozzles 114 by an equiangularly spaced array of air supply lines 274. Referring still to the drawing, Figure 8 shows in more detail the manner in which fuel injectors 114 are supported from combustor case 34 and the manner in which combustor air is supplied to combustor 32. The fuel injection nozzle 114 illustrated inFigure 8 extends radially through an opening 276 in the combustor case with its mounting flange 192 seated on the outer surface of the latter. The injector is secured in place as by bolts 278 with a seal 280 being employed to keep compressor discharge air from escaping through the joint between the combustor case and the mounting flange. The illustrated combustor 32 is of the annular type. The combustor has a circularly sectioned outer liner 282 surrounded by an outer shroud 284 and a concentrically disposed, circularly sectioned inner liner 286 which surrounds an inner shroud 288. At the upstream end of combustor 32, the annular gap between outer combustor liner 282 and inner combustor liner 286 is spanned by an annular, generallyU sectioned, combustion dome 290. Also at this end of the combustor and at stations corresponding to the locations of fuel injection nozzles 114 are combustion air inlet guide members 292 and circular, sliding seal plates 294. The details of the combustor as just described are not part of my present invention, and they will accordingly be alluded to hereinafter only as necessary to facilitate an understanding of that invention. Referring still to Figure 8, that inner, longitudinally extending part of fuel injection nozzle 114 made up of nozzle body 158 and shrouds 160 and 162 extends through a central opening 298 in combustion air inlet guide member 292 and through a central opening 300 in sliding seal plate 294, leaving an annular passage 302 between the seal plate and fuel injection nozzle secondary air shroud 184. Swirl vanes 186 span, and impart a rotational component to, combustion air discharged through this passage into combustor 32. Referring now primarily to Figures 4, 6, and 8, liquid fuel introduced into fuel injection nozzle 114 flows into the discharge passage 172 between nozzle body 158 and shroud 160 as discussed above. The discharge end 304 of the shroud tapers inwardly, and the discharge end 306 of the nozzle body is configured to match. Consequently, the liquid fuel is discharged from the fuel injection nozzle in the form of a thin film toward the axial centerline 308 of that longitudinally extending. part of the fuel injection nozzle. This thin film of liquid fuel is contacted, and atomized, by the high velocity, swirling, primary combustion air discharged from the central air passage 220 through nozzle body 158, the air mixing with the fuel as atomization proceeds. Secondary combustion air flows through and from air inlet guide member 292 in the direction indicated by arrow 310 in Figure 6 through swirl vanes 182 which, accordingly, impart a rotational component to the secondary air. Shroud 184 has an inwardly inclined, annular lip 312. Consequently, the swirling secondary combustion air is directed inwardly and into contact with the mixing, atomizing fuel and primary combustion air. This promotes the atomization of the liquid fuel and the distribution of the atomized fuel in the combustion mixture. The resulting fuel air mixture then expands radially and is contacted by the rotating air exiting from the passage 302 in which swirl vanes 186 are located.This produces the air fuel or stoichiometric ratio needed for efficient combustion. It also generates the fuel air mixture swirl angle, and the distribution and recirculation of the mixture in combutor 32, required for efficient combustion. As indicated above, the primary and secondary combustion air as well as that formed into a swirling annulus by vanes 186 is taken from the discharge side of compressor 12. More specifically, air discharged from the compressor flows through diverging diffuser 28 and is dumped into the forward part of plenum 30, decreasing the flow velocity of the air. From plenum 30 the air flows through air inlet guides 292, and, also, into heat transfer relationship with the outer and inner liners 282 and 286 of combustor 32 to cool those combustor components. The details of the compressor combustor interface, which are not part of the present invention, may be found in US A 4,167,907. As discussed above, the compressor discharge pressure may not be high enough at light off to guarantee proper atomization of liquid fuel via the mechanisms just described and, as was also discussed, assist air may be introduced into fuel injection nozzle 114 via fitting 238 for that purpose. Figure 9 shows, schematically, one of several systems that may be employed to supply the atomization assist air. The exemplary system 312 illustrated in that Figure includes an air pump 316 driven by a diesel engine 318. Air is pumped through a filter 320 and then through lines 322 and 324 to the air assist manifold and to a torch type ignitor 326 see Figure 8 provided to ignite the fuel during light off. Referring again to Figures 4, 6, and 8, the operation of injectors 114 on a gaseous fuel is comparable to the above described operation on liquid fuel. In the case of the gaseous fuel, however, the fuel is discharged from injection nozzle 114 through radially inwardly directed, equiangularly spaced ports 328 at the downstream end of nozzle 114 with a momentum which allows the gas to mix with the swirling primary and secondary combustion air streams without impinging on the lip of shroud 160. This is important as impingement on that lip or other components of the nozzle could create flow disturbances and consequent degradation in efficiency of the combustion process. The mixture formed by the contact between the fuel and the primary and secondary combustion air streams then, as in the case of the liquid fuel air mixture, expands radially outward into contact with the swirling air discharged through swirl vanes 186. Thereafter, as in the case of the liquid fuel and as it reaches the combustion zone in combustor 32, a mixture with the correct ratio of fuel and with the swirl angle, distribution, and recirculation needed for efficient combustion is formed. Fuel injectors 114 have above been described as if engine 10 were to be operated on only a liquid fuel or only a gaseous fuel. This is not a requisite, however, as the injectors can be employed to supply both types of fuel at the same time, if desired.