# Medicine for the treatment of diabetes.

## Abstract
A medicine for the treatment of diabetes which compris es insulin and a synthetic phenyl ester type chymotrypsin inhibitor is effectively useful for absorption of insulin through the intestinal canal without the deactivation of insulin in the canal.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A medicine for the treatment of diabetes, comprising insulin and a synthetic phenyl ester type chymotrypsin inhibitor. 2. The medicine according to claim, characterised in that said synthetic phenyl ester type chymotrypsin inhibitor is a compound represented by the following formula or an acid addition salt thereof,EMI36.1 wherein R is indole which may be substituted with lower alkyl and or lower alkoxy naphthyl which may be substituted with . lower alkoxy and which may be partially saturated with 2 or 4 hydrogen atoms phenyl which may be substituted with lower alkyl, alkoxy, alkoxycarbonyloxp acyl, acyloxy or halogen cyclohexyl or indane or furyl Aisa single bond, alkylene or vinylene P isa single bond, alkylene, vinylene or alkylene attached to the benzene ring through an oxygen or nitrogen atom in which said alkylene group may be sub stituted with amino, alkylamino or benzoyloxyamino, and said nitrogen atom may be substituted with acyl and Y isEMI37.1 in which R1 and R2 are same or different, and represents hydrogen, lower alkyl, acyl, aminoalkyl or aminoacyloxyalkyl EMI37.2 in which R3 represents lower alkyl, cyclo alkyl, benzyl, carbamoyl lower alkyl, morpholinocarbonyl lower alkyl, pyrrolidinocarbonyl lower alkyl, piperidinocarbonyl lower alkyl, piperidino lower alkyl, anilinocarbonyl lower alkyl, alkylaminoearbonyl lower alkyl or alkoxycarbonyl lower alkyl OR4 in which R4 represents hydrogen, lower alkyl, aralkyl, succinimido, aminoacyloxyalkyl, aminoalkyloxyalkyl or aminoalkylcarbamoylalkyl NH alkyleneEMI37.3 orEMI37.4 in which Rs represents lower alkyl, morpholine lower alkyl, morpholinocarbonyl lower alkyl, pyrrodinocarbonyl lower alkyl, piperidinocarbonyl lower alkyl or lower alkylaminocarbonyl lower alkyl orEMI37.5 in which Q represents straightchain or branched chain alkylene, R6 andR7 each represent lower alkyl, or both jointly form, together with an adjacent nitrogen atom, pyrrolidino, piperidino or morpholino. 3. The medicine according to claim 1, or claim 2, characterised in that said synthetic phenyl ester type chymotrypsin inhibitor is present in an amount of 0.1 to 10 mg based on one unit of said insulin. 4. The medicine according to any of claims 1 to 3, characterised in that it is in the form of a preparation for oral or rectal administration. SEPARATE CLAIMS fOR AUSTRIA 1. A method of preparing a medicine for the treatment of diabetes, characterised by the step of admixing insulin and a synthetic phenyl ester type chymotrypsin inhibitor. 2. The method according to claim 1, charadterised in that said synthetic phenyl ester type chymotrypsin inhibitor is a compound represented by the following formula or an acid addition salt thereof,EMI39.1 wherein R indole which may be substituted with lower alkyl and or lower alkoxy naphthyl which may be substituted with lower alkoxy and which may be partially saturated with 2 or 4 hydrogen atoms phenyl which may be substituted with lower alkyl, alkoxy, alkoxycarbonyloy acyl, acyloxy or halogen cyclohexyl or indane or furyl A a single bond, alkylene or vinylene P a single bond, alkylene, vinylene or alkylene attached to the benzene ring through an oxygen or nitrogen atom in which said alkylene group may be sub stituted with amino, alkylamino or benzoyloxyamino, and said nitrogen atom may be substituted with acyl and yY is EMI40.1 in which R1 and R2 are same or different, and represents hydrogen, lower alkyl, acyl, aminoalkyl or aminoacyloxyalkyl EMI40.2 in which R3 represents lower alkyl, cyclo alkyl, benzyl, carbamoyl lower alkyl, morpholinocarbonyl lower alkyl, pyrrolidinocarbonyl lower alkyl, piperidinocarbonyl lower alkyl, piperidino lower alkyl, anilinocarbonyl lower alkyl, alkylaminocarbonyl lower alkyl or alkoxycarbonyl lower alkyl OR4 in which R4 represents hydrogen, lower alkyl, aralkyl, succinimido, aminoacyloxyalkyl, aminoalkyloxyalkyl or aminoalkylcarbamoyla lkyl NH alkyleneEMI40.3 orEMI40.4 in which R5 represents lower alkyl, morpholine lower alkyl, morpholinocarbonyl lower alkyl, pyrrodinocarbonyl lower alkyl, piperidinocarbonyl lower alkyl or lower alkylaminocarbonyl lower alkyl orEMI40.5 in which Q represents straightchain or branched chain alkylene, R6 andR7 each represent lower alkyl, or both jointly form, together with an adjacent nitrogen atom, pyrrolidino, piperidino or morpholino. 3. The method according to claim 1 or claim 2, characterised in that said synthetic phenyl ester type chymotrypsin inhibitor is present in an amount of 0.1 to 10 mg based on one unit of said insulin.

## Description
MEDiCINE FOR THE .1 REA TN.T or DIABETES This invention relates to a medicine for the treatment of diabetes, and more particularly to such medicine comprising insulin and a synthetic phenyl ester type chymotrypsin inhibitor. Insulin has been widely used a medicine for treating diabetes in clinical diagnosis. Because of being a polypeptide, however, insulin when administered orally is liable to be deactivated by the action of various proteases in the digestive juice, and hence, does not exhibit its inherent curative effect on diabetes.Accordingly, insulin has heretofore been administered only by intravenous or intramascular injection. However, the injection of insulin must be performed by experts, and at the same time, diabetes requires treatment by continuous administration of insulin for a prolonged period of time. This induces the drawback that a patient suffers physical and mental pain and feels annoyed about the treatment. In recent years, research has been directed to the administration of insulin by routes other than injection. There have been disclosed in Japanese Laidopen Application No. 15412 1978 a suppository by which insulin is absorbable through the intestinal canal with use of insulin in combination with a trypsin inhibitor, and in Japanese Laid open Application No. 107408 1978 a preparation by which insulin is acceleratively absorbed through the intestinal canal with use of insulin in combination with a surfactant. The known suppository and preparation are not necessarily satisfactory and far from practical. In order to overcome the above noted disadvantages of the prior art techniques, the present inventors have made many studies of preparations by which insulin can be absorbed through the intestinal canal by routes other than injection, for example, by an oral or rectal route, thereby producing blood sugar lowering action.In the studies leading to the present invention, it has been found that as compared to the conventional preparations of insulin combined with natural or synthetic trypsin inhibitors, insulin when administered together with substances which specifically inhibit chymotrypsin is satisfactorily absorbable through the intestinal canal and achieves the desired blood sugar lowering activities. Therefore, one object of the present invention is to provide a medicine for the treatment of diabetes which is devoid of the shortcomings of the existing techniques. A more specific object of the invention is to provide a medicine capable of facilitating the absorption of insulin through the intestinal canal, without insulin being deactivated in the canal. This and other objects of the invention as hereinafter will become readily apparent can be obtained by providing a medicine for the treatment of diabetes which comprises insulin and a synthetic phenyl ester type chymotrypsin inhibitor. A more complete appreciation of the invention and many of the attendant advantages thereof will be readily obtained as the same becomes better understood by reference to the following detailed description when considered in connection with the accompanying drawings, wherein FIG. 1 is a diagram showing the relationship between the time course after administration of a medicine embodying the invention and the lowering of blood sugar levels FIG. 2 is a diagram showing the effects of insulin administered alone and in combination with other acceptable compounds upon the decreases in blood sugar level and FIG. 3 through FIG. 5, inclusive, are diagrams showing the effects of insulin and chymotrypsin inhibitors administered in varied concentrations upon the changes in blood sugar level. Insulin, which may be used in the present invention, is not particularly limited in respect of its origin. Any species of insulin are applicable so long as these species are absorbed through the intestinal canal and exhibit blood sugar level lowering activities.Suitable species of insulin which are useful in the invention include, for example, those originating from cattle, hogs, whales and the like, those derived from microorganisms, cells and the like which have gained insulin producing action by means of the gene rearrangement operation, and those obtained synthetically. Synthetic phenyl ester type chymotrypsin inhibitors hereinafter referred to as chymotrypsin inhibi tors , which may be employed in the invention, include compounds represented by the formula I written below and acid addition salts thereof,EMI4.1 wherein R is indole which may be substituted with lower alkyl and or lower alkoxy naphthyl which may be substituted with lower alkoxy and which may be partially saturated with 2 or 4 hydrogen actoms phenyl which may be substituted with lower alkyl, alkoxy, alkoxycarbonyloxy, acyl, acyloxy or halogen cyclohexyl or indane or furyl A is a single bond, alkylene or vinylene P is a single bond, alkylene, vinylene or alkylene attached to the benzene ring through an oxygen or nitrogen atom in which said alkylene group may be substi tuted with amino, alkylamino or benzoyl oxy amino, and said nitrogen atom may be substituted with acyl and EMI5.1 in which R1 and R2 are same or different, and represents hydrogen, lower alkyl, acyl, aminoalkyl or aminoacyloxyalkyl EMI5.2 in which R3 represents lower alkyl, cyclo alkyl, benzyl,carbamoyl lower alkyl, rtorpbolinocarbonyl lower alkyl, pyrrolidinocarbonyl lower alkyl, piperidinocarbonyl lower alkyl, piperidino lower alkyl, anilinocarbonyl lower alkyl, alkylaminocarbonyl lower alkyl or alkoxycarbonyl lower alkyl OR4 in which R4 represents hydrogen, lower alkyl, aralkyl, succinimido, aminoacyloxyalkyl, amixxkyl oxyalkyl or aminoalkylcarbamoylalkyl NH alkyleneEMI5.3 orEMI5.4 R5 in which R5 represents lower alkyl1 morpholine lower alkyl, morpholinocarbonyl lower alkyl, pyrrodinocarbonyl lower alkyl, piperidinocarbonyl lower alkyl or lower alkylaminocarbonyl lower alkyl orEMI5.5 in which Q represents straightchain or branched chain alkylene, R6 andR7 each represent lower alkyl, or both jointly form, together with an adjacent nitrogen atom,pyrrolidino, piperidino or morpholino. The compounds of the formula I may be divided into the following three groups. A Compounds of the formula I a EMI6.1 wherein R10 is indole which may be substituted with lower alkyl or lower alkoxy naphthyl which may be partially saturated with 2 or 4 hydrogen atoms phenyl or cyclo hexyl which may be substituted with lower alkyl Al is a single bond or alkylene Plis a single bond or vinylene Qlis O alkylene or NH alkylene when P1 is a single bond or vinylene when P1 is vinylene and R12is lower alkyl, morpholino lower alkyl, morpholinocarbonyl lower alkyl, pyrro lidinocarbonyl lower alkyl, piperidi nocarbonyl lower alkyl or lower alkyl aminocarbonyl lower alkyl. B Compounds of the formula I b EMI6.2 wherein R20 is indole which may be substituted with lower alkyl and or alkoxy or naphthyl or indane which may be partially satu rated with 2 or 4 hydrogen atoms P2 is a single bond, alkylene or vinylene Q2 is straight chain or branched chain alkylene R21 and R22 each represent lower alkyl, or both jointly form, together with an adjacent nitrogen atom, pyrrolidino, piperidino or morpholino and A1 i8 as defined above.C Compounds of the general formula I c EMI7.1 wherein R30 is phenyl which may be substituted with 1 to 3 groups of lower alkyl, alkoxy, alkoxycarbonyloxy, acyl, acyloxy or halogen naphthyl which may be substi tuted with lower alkoxy and which may be partially saturated with 2 or 4 hydrogen atoms indole which may be substituted with lower alkyl or alkoxy indane or furyl A3 is a single bond, alkylene or vinylene P3 is a single bond, alkylene or alkylene attached to the benzene ring through an oxygen or nitrogen atom in which said alkylene group maybe substituted with amino, alkylamino or benzoyloxy amino, and said nitrogen atom may be substituted with acyl andQ3 isEMI7.2 in which R31 and R32 are same or o erent, and represent hydrogen, lower alkyl, acyl, aminoalkyl, or aminoacyloxyalkyl EMI8.1 in which R33 represents lower alkyl, cycloalkyl, benzyl, carbamoyl lower alkyl, morpho linocarbonyl lower alkyl, piperidino carbonyl lower alkyl, piperidino lower alkyl, anilinocarbonyl lower alkyl, alkylaminocarbonyl lower alkyl or alkoxycarbonyl lower alkyl or OR34 in which R34 represents hydrogen, lower alkyl, aralkyl, succinimido, amino acyloxyalkyl, aminoalkyloxyalkyl or aminoalkylocarbamoylalkyl. Some processes for preparing the above mentioned compounds and chymotrypsin inhibiting activities of the compounds are disclosed in Japanese Patent Laid openApplications No. 149240 1980 and No. 158737 1981 andJapanese Patent Applications No. 86569 1981 and No.110350 1981. A typical example of the processes is illustrated by the following reaction scheme.EMI8.2 wherein R, A, P, Q and Y are the same as defined above. That is, the chymotrypsin inhibitors which are useful in the invention are easily prepared by esterification of 4 substituted phenols of the formula II and carboxylic acids of the formula III , as is known in the art. The esterification reaction of the compounds of the formula II with the compounds of the formula III may be advantageously carried out by reaction of a reactive derivative of the compound of the formula III , for example, an acid halide, an acid anhydride, a mixed acid anhydride, an active ester or an azide or the like, with the compound of the formula II , by the active amide process or oxidation reduction process, by reaction of the compound of the formula II with the compound of the formula III in the presence of a dehydrating agent such as dicyclohexylcarbodiimide or the like, or by other processes. The chymotrypsin inhibitors are compounds which are extremely low in toxicity. For example, the acute toxicity LD50 value of the compounds is about 300 to 400 mg kg when administered intravenously to mice.Furthermore, such chymotrypsin inhibitors are compounds possessing extremely high chymotrypsin inhibiting activities, as is clear from their molarity of about 10 6 to 10 8 at the 50 inhibition concentration. Medicines for the treatment of diabetes according to the invention were tested in respect of their pharmacological activities, with the results described hereinafter. 1 Blood sugar level lowering action of various chymotrypsin inhibitors used in combination with insulin Determination method A Rabbits, each group consisting of 5 rabbits, which had previously been starved overnight and implan ted in the duodenum with a catheter, were administered with test medicines through the catheter. Blood was collected from each animal before and 30 minutes after the administration. The blood sugar levels in the collected blood were determined by the glucose oxidase method. Each medicine was prepared by dissolving or suspending 250 units of insulin and 100 mg of one of the chymotrypsin inhibitors given below in 20 ml of water, and the resulting solution or suspension was administered in a dose of 2 ml kg. The blood sugar level decreasing ratios werecalculated by the following equation on the basis of the blood sugar levels determined above. The results obtained are shown in Table 1.EMI10.1 tb SEP Blood SEP sugar SEP Blood SEP sugar SEP level tb Blood SEP sugar SEP level SEP before SEP SEP 30 SEP minutes SEP after tb Blood SEP sugar SEP administration SEP administration SEP SEP 100 SEP tb level decreas SEP tb ing SEP ratio SEP SEP Blood SEP sugar SEP level SEP before tb SEP administration tb Table 1 Chymotrypsin inhibitor Blood sugar level Compound No. decreasing ratio 1 20 2 25 3 22 4 29 5 36 6 44 7 37 8 32 9 35 10 51 11 48 12 26 13 29 14 37 15 32 16 26 17 40 18 35 19 32 Blank o The compounds used as chymotrypsin inhibitors in this test were as follows 1. 4 2 4 Morpholinocarbonylmethyl piperadi no ethyl oxycarbonyl phenyl cyclohexylcarbo xylate dihydrochloride 2. 4 2 4 Morpholinocarbonylmethyl piperadi no ethyl oxycarbonyl phenyl 1,2,3,4 tetra hydro l naphthoate dihydrochloride 3. 4 2 4 Morpholinocarbonylmethyl piperadi no ethyl oxycarbonyllphenyl 4 methylbenzoate dihydrochloride 4. 4 1 2 4 Morpholinocarbonylmethyl pipera dino ethyl oxycarbonyl phenylnaphthyl l acetate dihydrochloride 5. 4 2 4 Morpholinocarbonylmethyl pipera dino ethylloxycarbonyl phenyl 5 methoxy 2 methylindole 3 acetate dihydrochloride 6. 4 2 Diethylamino l methylethyl oxycarbonyl3 phenyl 5 methoxy 2 methylindole 3 acetate 7. 4 2 2 Diethylamino l methylethyl oxyearbo nyl ethenyllphenyl 5 methoxy 2 methylindole 3 acetate 8. 4 1 2 Dimethylaminoethyl carbamoyl phenyl 5 methoxyindole 3 acetate 9. 4 2 2 Piperidinoethyl oxycarbonyl ethenyl phenyl 5 methpxy 2 methylindole 3 acetate 10. 4 2 2 Dimethylamino l methylethyl oxy carbonyl ethenyl phenyl 5 methoxy 2 methy lindole 3 acetate 11. 4 2 Piperidinoethyl oxycarbonyl phenyl 5 methoxy 2 methylindole 3 acetate 12. 4 2 1,5 Diamino n pentylcarbonyloxy ethyl oxycarbonylmethyl phenyl 5 methoxy 2 methylindole 3 acetate dihydrochloride 13. 4 2 1,5 Diamino n pentylcarbonyloxy ethyl carbamoylmethyl3phenyl 5 methoxy 2 methylindole 3 acetate dihydrochloride 14. 4 2 1, 5 Diamino n pentylcarbonyloxy ethyl oxycarbonylmethyl phenyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro l naphthoate dihydrochloride 15. 4 2 1, 5 Diamino n pentylcarbonyloxy ethyl carbamoylmethyl phenyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro l naphthoate dihydrochloride 16. 4 2 Dimethylaminoethyl carbamoyl phenyl 5,6,7,8 tetrahydro l naphthoate hydrochloride 17. 4 2 dimethylaminoethyl carbamoyl phenyl 5 methoxy 2 methylindol 3 acetate maleate 18. 4 2 Dimethylaminoethyl carbamoyl phenyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro l naphthoate hydrochloride 19. 1 Methyl 4 4 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro 1 naph thoyloxy benzoyl piperazine hydrochlorideDetermination method B Male rats, each group consisting of 5 rats weigh ing 180 to 210 g,were subjected to abdominal operation under anesthetization with urethane chloralose and administered with test medicine liquids through an injection needle into the duodenum 2 cm apart from the pyloric region. Before and 1 hour after the administration, blood was collected from the lower venous trunk of each rat. The blood sugar levels of the collected blood were determined by the glucose oxidase method.Each medicine liquid was prepared by dissolving or suspending 250 units of insulin and 20 mg and 40 mg of one of the chymotrypsin inhibitors given below in 2 mQ of water. The blood sugar level decreasing ratios were calculated by the following equation on the basis of the blood sugar levels predetermined above. The results obtained are shown in Table 2.EMI14.1 tb SEP lood SEP sugar SEP 1 SEP Stood SEP sugar SEP level tb SEP level SEP before SEP SEP SEP 1 SEP hour SEP after tb Blood SEP sugar SEP hinistratior SEP SEP administration SEP 100 SEP tb decreasing SEP SEP x100 tb ratio SEP 8 SEP Blood SEP sugar SEP level SEP before tb SEP administration tb Table 2EMI14.2 tb Blood SEP sugar SEP level SEP tb SEP Blood SEP sugar SEP levelChymotrypsin SEP decreasing SEP ratio SEP tb SEP inhibitor SEP Dose SEP of SEP Dose SEP of SEP tb Compound SEP No. SEP 20 SEP Dose SEP of SEP Dose SEP of tb SEP 20 SEP mg kg SEP 40 SEP mg kg tb SEP 1 SEP 16 SEP 2 SEP tb SEP 2 SEP 50 SEP 64 tb SEP 3 SEP 41 SEP 53 tb The compounds used as chymotrypsin inhibitors in this test were as follows 1. 1 Isopropylaminocarbonylmethyl 4 t4 1,2,3, 4 tetrahydro 1 naphthoyloxy benzoyl pipera zine methanesulfonate 2. l Isopropyl 4 4 1,2,3, 4 tetrahydro l naph thoyloxy benzoyljpiperazine methanesulfonate 3. 1 Ethyl 4 I4 1,2,3, tetsahydro l naph 8 thoyloxy benzoyl piperazine methanesulfonateDetermination method C Beagle dogs, each group consisting of 6 dogs, which had been starved overnight, were orally administered with test medicines, and blood was collected from the animals before administration and 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 2.5, 3, 4 and 5 hours after the administration. The blood sugar levels of the collected blood were determined by the same method as adopted in determination method A. Each medicine was prepared by blending 25 units kg of insulin with 10 mg kg of a chymotrypsin inhibitor, and the resulting blend was encapsulated with a gelatin hard capsule coated with a coat soluble in the intestines. The results obtained are shown in FIG. 1 wherein the value is an average value of 6 dogs of one group. The compounds used as chymotrypsin inhibitors in this test were as follows 1. 1 Isopropylaminocarbonylmethyl 4 4 1,2,3, 4 tetrahydro 1 naphthoyloxy benzoyl pipera zine methanesulfonate 2. 1 Piperidinocarbonylmethyl 4 4 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro l naphthoyloxyMbenzoyl piperazine methanesulfonate 3. 1 Isopropyl 4 4 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro 1 naph thoyloxy benzoyl piperazine methanesulfonate 4. 1 Dimethylaminocarbonylmethyl 4 4 1,2,3, 4 tetrahydro 1 naphthoyloxy benzoylApipera zine methanesulfonate 2 Comparative test between chymotrypsin inhi bitors and trypsin inhibitors Rabbits which had been treated in the same manner as adopted in determination method A of item 1 above were administered with test medicines. Blood of the rabbits was collected before the administration and 30 minutes and 90 minutes after the administration, and the blood sugar levels of the collected blood were determined. The medicines were administered in a dose of 25 units kg of insulin in combination of 20 mg kg of a chymotrypsin inhibitor or 10, 20 and 40 mg kg of a trypsin inhibitor in the same manner as employed in determination method A of item 1 above. The results obtained are shown in FIG. 2. The chymotrypsin inhibitors used were 4 2 4 2 morpholino ethyl piperazino ethyl oxycarbonyl phenyl 5 methoxy 2 methylindole 3 acetate trihydrochloride 1 and l ethyl 4 4 1,2,3 ,4 tetrahydro l naph thoyloxy benzoylipiperazine methanesulfonate 2 , and the trypsin inhibitors used were leupeptine and mesyl gabexate. 3 Reaction test by dosage Determination method A Overnight starved beagle dogs, each group consisting of 3 dogs, were orally administered with test medicines, and blood was collected from each of the animals before the administration and 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 3, 4 and 5 hours after the administration. The blood sugar levels of the collected blood were determined by the same manner as used in item 1 above. Each medicine was prepared by blending insulin and a chymotrypsin inhibitor in the ratio given below, and the resulting blend was encapsulated in a gelatin hard capsule coated with a coat soluble in the intestines. 1 Chemicals for reaction of chymotrypsin inhibitor by dosage prepared by blending insulin with a chymotrypsin inhibitor in a ratio of 25 units kg of insulin to lomg kg, 20 mg kg and 40 mg kg of chymotrypsin inhibitor 2 Chemicals for reaction of insulin by dosage prepared by blending a chymotrypsin inhibi tor with insulin in a ratio of 20 mg kg of chymotrypsin inhibitor to 12.5 units kg, 25 units kg and 50 units kg of insulin The compound used as a chymotrypsin inhibitor in this test was the compound 1 identified in item 2 above. The results obtained are shown in FIGS. 3 and 4.Determination method B Using the same procedure as in determination method B of item 1 above and beagle dogs, a reaction of a chymotrypsin inhibitor by dosage was investigated by determining the blood sugar levels. Each test medicine was prepared by blending insulin with a chymotrypsin inhibitor in a ratio of 25 units kg of insulin to 5 mg kg and 10 mg kg of chymotrypsin inhibitor and encapsulating the blend in a gelatin hard capsule coated with a coat in the same manner as in determination method B in of item 1 . As the chymotrypsin inhibitor, use was made of l isopropyl 4 4 l,2,3,4 tetrahydro l naphthoyloxy benzoyl piperazine methanesulfonate. The results obtained are shown in FIG. 5. As is clear from the foregoing results, it has been confirmed that insulin when administered together with chymotrypsin inhibitors is absorbed in the intestinal canal and exhibits substantially excellent sugar level lowering activities. Such activities accruing from the medicines of the invention are about five to ten times as high as those of the case where insulin is used in combination with known trypsin inhibitors. For the practice of the invention, it is desired that the chymotrypsin inhibitor be used in combination with insulin in a ratio of 0.001 to 50 mg of the former to one unit of the latter. Any modes of administration wherein both insulin and the chymotrypsin inhibitor can coexist in the intestinal canal may be suitably utilized for the invention. A more preferable mode is to use insulin together with the chymotrypsin inhibitor, to use both components separately in the form of a preparation for an oral route such as a tablet or a capsule soluble in the intestines or the like, or to use both components in the form of a suppository. Suitable doses of the medicines according to the invention range from 20 to 5,000 units in terms of insulin for an adult per one time, depending upon the blood sugar level of a patient, the mode of administration and other conditions. Particularly preferable is the range of 50 to 2,000 units. The above disclosure generally describes the present invention. A more complete understanding will be obtained by the following specific examples and reference examples which are provided for purposes of illustration only and are not construed as limiting to the invention. Example 1 To a mixture of 400 units of insulin and 320 mg of a chymotrypsin inhibitor were added suitable amounts of crystalline cellulose, carboxymethyl cellulose calcium and talc. The resulting mixture was encapsulated in a gelatin capsule and further coated with an enteric coat, whereby a capsule preparation was obtained. Example 2 To a mixture of 300 units of insulin and 150 mg of a chymotrypsin inhibitor were added suitable amounts of crystalline cellulose, carboxymethyl cellulose calcium, hydroxypropyl cellulose and magnesium stearate. The resulting mixture was formed into a tablet which was then coated with an enteric coat, whereby a tablet preparation was obtained. Example 3 To a mixture of 625 units of insulin and 500 mg of a chymotrypsin inhibitor were added suitable amounts of crystalline cellulose, carboxymethyl cellulose calcium and hydroxypropyl cellulose. The resulting mixture was granulated, and the granules were coated with an enteric coat, whereby a granular preparation was obtained. Example 4 A mixture of 50 units of insulin and 50 mg of a chymotrypsin inhibitor was blended with a suitable amount of Witepsol H 19 to prepare a suppository. Reference Example 1 4 C 2 4 2 orpholino ethyl piperazino ethyl oxyzarbonyllphenyl 5 methoxy 2 methylindole 3 acetate 1 To. a solution of 623 g of morpholine ethanol in 2 of benzene, kept at an internal temperature of less than 350C, was added dropwise with stirring and ice cooling a solution of 735 g of thionyl chloride in 500 mQ of benzene. After completion ofthe dropwise addition, the reaction liquid was refluxed with stirring for 4 hours. After cooling, the deposited crystals were separated and collected to obtain 872.4g yield 98.7 of chloroethylmorpholine hydrochloride, m.p. 180 to 1820C. A mixture of 223 g of the thus obtained chloroethylmorpholine hydrochloride, 130 g of piperazine ethanol, 336 mQ of triethylamine and 36 g of sodium iodide was susepnded in 1 Q of toluene, followed by refluxing with stirring for 2 hours. After i being cooled, the reaction liquid was filtered to remove insolubles, and the solvent was removed by distillation to obtain 209 g of an oily product. To a solution of the thus obtained oily product and 161 mR.of triethylamine in 1 Q of ethyl acetate was added dropwise with stirring and ice cooling 300 mt of an ethyl acetate solution of 262 g of an acid chloride prepared, according to the usual way, from 240 g of p ethoxycarbonyloxybenzoic acid, followed by stirring at room temperature for 3 hours. The reaction liquid was filtered to remove precipitates and acidified with 2N hydrochloric acid. The hydrochloric acid layer separated and collected was washed with ethyl acetate, neutralized with an aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution and then extracted with chloroform. The chloroform layer separated and collected was washed with water, dried and then concentrated.The deposited crystals were recrystallized from ethyl acetate n hexane to obtain 329 g yield 77.48 of 2 4 2 morpholino ethyl piperazino ethyl 4 ethoxycarbonyloxybenzoate as colorless crystals, m.p. 85 to 870C. Subsequently, the thus obtained 4 ethoxycarbony loxy benzoate was dissolved in 1.8 Q of ehtyl acetate, and 64.6 mQ of pyrrolidine tJas added to the solution. The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes and then allowed to stand overnight, and the resulting precipitates were collected by filtration. The precipitates were recrystallized from ethanol obtain 204 g yield 72.68 of 2 4 2 morpholino ethyl piperazino ethyl 4 hydroxybenzoate as colorless crystals, m.p. 176 to 1780C. 2 A mixture of 204 g of the 4 hydroxybenzoate obtained in item 1 148 g of 5 e tixy 2emethyl 3 indole acetic acid, 138 g of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide and 8.5 g of 4 dimethylaminopyridine was dissolved in 3Q of acetonitrile and then stirred at room temperature for 4 hours. Followed by removal of deposited insolubles by filtration from the reaction liquid, the solvent was removed by distillation. The reaction liquid thus treated was dissolved in 450 mQ of 2N hydrochloric acid and washed with ethyl acetate. The hydrochloric acid layer was neutralized with sodium bicarbonate and extracted with chloroform The chloroform layer was washed with water and dried, and the solvent was removed by distillation to obtain a dark redish oily product.This oily product was dissolved in 3.5 Q of a mixed solvent of acetonitrile and ethanol 4 1 and incorporated with a calculated amount of a hydrochloric acid dioxane solution, and the resulting mixture was allowed to stand overnight under cool conditions. The deposited crystals were collected by filtration and dried to obtain 294 g yield 77.7 of 4 2 4 2 morpholino ethyl piperazino ethyl oxycarbonyl phenyl 5 methoxy 2 methylindole 3 acetate trihydrochloride as pale yellow crystals, m.p. 231 to 2330C. Reference Example 2 4 t2 t4 Morpholinocarbonylmethyl piperazino ethyl carbamoyl phenyl 5 methoxy 2 methylindole 3 acetate 1 A solution of 25.4 g of phenyl 4 benzyloxy benzoate and 21.6 g of N 2 aminoethyl piperazine in chloroform was heated for 5 hours under reflux conditions. After completion of the reaction, a residue obtained by concentrating the reaction liquid under reduced pressure was dissolved in ethyl acetate and extracted with 105 mQ of 4N hydrochloric acid. The hydrochloric acid layer collected by separation was neutralized with cooling by addition of 17 g of sodium hydroxide. The neutralized layer was extracted with chloroform, washed with saturated saline, dried and distilled to remove the solvent to deposit crystals.The crystals are recrystallized from a mixed solvent of ethyl acetate and ether to obtain 8.5 g yield 30.0 of N 2 piperazino ethyl 4 benzyloxy benzamide as colorless crystals, m.p. 116 to 1180C. To 80 mi of an ethanol solution of 8.0 g of the thus obtained benzamide, 3.45 g of potassium carbonate and 0.37 g of sodium iodide was added 7.72 g of N chloroacetyl morpholine, and the resulting mixture was heated for 5 hours under reflux conditions. After completion of the reaction, insolubles were removed by filtration from the reaction liquid, and a residue obtained by removal of the solvent by distillation was dissolved in 90 mQ of lN hydrochloric acid. The resulting hydrochloric acid solution was washed with ethyl acetate, neutralized with sodium hydrogencarbonate and then extracted with 500 mQ of ethyl acetate.The extract was dried, concentrated under reduced pressure and purified by silica gel chromatography using a mixed solvent of chloroform and methanol 10 1 to obtain 5.3 g yield 48.1 of N 2 4 morpholinocarbonylmethyl piperazino ethyl 4 benzyloxy benzamide as colorless crystals, m.p. 149 to 151 C. To a solution of 5.2 g of the thus obtained benzamide in 80 m of methanol was added 1 g of 10 palladium carbon, and the resulting mixture was subjected to catalytic reduction at 400C for 3 hours. Then, the reduction product was purified by the conventional method to obtain 4.18 g quantitative of N 2 4 morpholinocarbonylmethyl piperazino ethyl 4 hydroxybenzamide as an oily product. Elementary analysis for C,9H28N404 C H N Calculated 60.62 7.50 14.88 Found 60.34 7.41 14.70 2 To 30 mt of an acetonitrile solution of 4.18 g of the benzamide obtained in item 1 , 3.65 g of 5 methoxy 2 methylindole 3 acetic acid and 0.2 g of 4 dimethylamino pyridine was added 3.43 g of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide, and the resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. Followed by removal of insolubles by filtration from the reaction liquid, a residue obtained by concentration under reduced pressure of the solvent was dissolved in ethyl acetate and extracted with 20 mQ of 2N hydrochloric acid. The hydrochloric acid layer collected was neutralized with sodium carbonate and extracted with ethyl acetate.The extract was washed with water and dried, and the solvent was removed by distillation to obtain an oily product. To a solution of the thus obtained oily product in ace to nitrile was added 1.73 g of maleic acid, whereby 5.2 g yield 86.3 of 4 2 4 morpholinocarbonylmethyl piperazino ethyl carbamoyl phenyl 5 methoxy 2 methylindole 3 acetate dimaleate was obtained as colorless crystals, m.p. 151 to 153.50C. Reference Example 3 l Pyrrolidinocarbonylmethyl 4 4 lt2Z3t4 tetrahydro l naphthoyloxy cinnamoyl piperazine 1 To a solution of 17.7 g of l pyrrolodinocarbonylmethyl piperazine and 8.4 mQ of triethylamine was added with ice cooling 15.2 g of 4 ethoxycarbonyloxy cinnamoyl chloride, and the resulting mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature. The reaction liquid was concentrated under reduced pressure, and the concentrate was added with ethyl acetate and filtered to remove insolubles. Thereafter, the filtrate was extracted with 140 my of B hydrochloric acid. The extract was washed with ethyl acetate, neutralized with sodium hydrogencarbonate and then extracted with chloroform.The chloroform layer was washed with water and then with saturated saline and dried. The crystals obtained by removal of the solvent by distillation were recrystallized from ethyl acetate to obtain 13.4 g yield 54.08 of l 4 ethoxycarbonyloxy cinnamoyl 4 pyrrolidino carbonylmethyl piperazine. The piperazine thus obtained was dissolved in 150 mQ of chloroform, and the solution was charged with 2.3 g of pyrrolidine and stirred at room temperature for 1.5 hours. After completion of the reaction, a residue obtained by removal of the solvent by distillation from the reaction liquid was purified by silica gel chromatography using a mixed solvent of chloroform and methanol 10 1 , whereby 11.1 g quantitative of 1 4 hydroxycinnamoyl 4 pyrrolidinocarbonylmethyl piperazine was obtained as a colorless oily product. Elementary analysis for C,9H25N303 C H N Calculated 66.45 7.34 12.24 Found 66.24 7.28 12.09 2 Using 1 4 hydroxycinnamoyl 4 pyrrolidino carbonylmethyl piperazine obtained in item 1 and 1,2, 3,4 tetrahydro l naphthoyl chloride, the same procedure as in item 1 of Reference Example 1 was repeated to obtain l pyrrolidinocarbonylmethyl 4 4 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro l naphthoyloxy cinnamoyl piperazine hydrochloride as crystals, m.p. 237.5 to 240.50C yield 49.58 Reference Example 4 Ethyl N benzyloxycarbonyl O ss indoleacetyl L tyrosinate To 50 mQ of a dimethylformamide solution of 17.2 g 50 mmols of ethyl N benzyloxycarbonyl L tyrosinate and 19.26 g 110 mmols of 8 indoleacetic acid was added 22.7 g 110 mmols of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide, and the resulting mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature. The.reaction liquid charged with 400 mt of ethyl acetate was distilled to remove insolubles and washed with a saturated sodium bicarbonate solution and saturated saline. The reaction liquid thus treated was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, concentrated under reduced pressure and purified by silica gel chromatography elution solvent chloroform methanol, 50 1 to obtain 13.3 g yield 53.1 of colorless crystals, m.p. 101.5 to 1030C. Elementary analysis for C29H28N206 C H N Calculated 69.59 5.64 5.60 Found 69.45 5.63 5.41 Reference Example 5 Ethyl N benzyloxycarbonyl O l naphthylacetyl L tyrosinate To 12 mZ of an ethyl acetate solution of 1.72 g 5 mmols and 1.4 mQ 10 mmols of triethylamine was added dropwise with ice cooling 2.05 g 10 mmols of l naphtylacetyl chloride. The mixture was stirred with ice cooling, and the reaction liquid was distilled to remove insolubles and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography elution solvent chloroform to obtain 1.44 g yield 56.28 of colorless crystals, m.p. 86 to 870C. Elementary analysis for C31H29NOs C H N Calculated 72.78 5.71 2.74 Found 72.99 5.71 2.51 Reference Example 6 N 2 Dimethylaminoethyl N benzoyl p benzoyl oxy benzamide hydrochloride To 25 mQ of a dimethylformamide solution of 4.07 g 19.5 mmols and 5.6 mi 40 mmols of triethyl amaze was added dropwise with ice cooling 4.67 mQ 40 mmols of benzoyl chloride. After being stirred at room temperature for 2 hours, the reaction liquid was distilled to remove insolubles, and the filtrate charged with 50 mQ of 0.5N hydrochloric acid was washed with ethyl acetate.The aqueous layer was neutralized with a saturated sodium bicarbonate solution and extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was washed with saturated saline, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and then concentrated under reduced pressure to obtain crude crystals. The crude crystals thus obtained were purified by silica gel chromatography elution solvent chloro form methanol, 5 1 to obtain 2.70 g of crystals. The crystals were dissolved in 10 mQ of chloroform, added with a solution of a dioxane solution containing an equimolar amount of hydrogen chloride and then added with ether, whereby 2.88 g yield 35.5 of colorless crystals, m.p. 185 to 1860C was obtained. Elementary analysis for C25H24N204 HCQ C H N Calculated 66.30 5.56 6.18 Found 66.24 5.42 6.08 Reference Example 7 4 2 Dimethylamino 1 methylethyl oxycarbonyl phenyl 5 methoxy 2 methylindole 3 acetate A mixture of 59 g of 5 methoxy 2 methyl 3 indoleacetic acid, 50 g of 2 dimethylamino l methylethyl4 hydroxylbenzoate, 56 g of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide and 3.3 g of 4 dimethylaminopyridine was dissolved in a mixed solvent containing 500 mQ of acetonitrile and 500 mQ of ethyl acetate, and the resulting solution was stirred at room temperature for 4 hours.After removal of insolubles by filtration from the reaction liquid, a residue obtained by removal of the solvent by distillation was dissolved in ethyl acetate and acidified with lN hydrochloric acid. The hydrochloric acid layer was neutralized with sodium bicarbonate and extracted with chloroform. The extract was washed with water, dried and then distilled to remove the solvent to obtain a yellow oily product. To a solution of the yellow oily product in 500 mL of ethanol was added 20 g of oxalic acid, and the resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. The deposited crystals were recrystallized from ethyl acetate ethanol to obtain 45 g yield 39.1 of 4 2 dimethylamino l methylethyl oxycarbonyl phenyl 5 methoxy 2 methylindole 3 acetate oxalate as pale yellow crystals, m.p. 106 to 1080C. Reference Example 8 4 2 Morpholino ethyl oxycarbonyl phenyl 5 methoxy 2 methylindole 3 acetate To 30 mQ of an acetonitrile solution of 3.68g of 5 methoxy 2 methyl 3 indoleacetic acid, 2.81 g of 2 morpholino ethyl 4 hydroxybenzoate and 0.21 g of 4 dimethylaminopyridine was added 3.47 g of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide, and the resulting mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature. After removing insolubles by distillation from the reaction liquid, a residue obtained by removal of the solvent by distillation was dissolved in ethyl acetate, and the resulting solution was charged with 10 mi of 2N hydrochloric acid. The hydrochloric acid layer collected was neutralized with sodium bicarbonate and extracted with ethyl acetate.After being washed with water and dried, the extract was removed by distillation to obtain an oily product. The oily product was dissolved in 40 mQ of acetonitrile and charged with a calculated amount of a hydrochloric aci BR dioxane solution, whereby 4.34 g yield 67.28 of 4 2 morpholino ethylloxycarbonyl phenyl 5 methoxy 2methylindole 3 acetate hydrochloride was obtained as colorless crystals, m.p. 157 to 1600C. Reference Example 9 l Methyl 4 4 7 methoxy l,2,3,4 , terahydro 1 naphthoyloxy benzoyl piperazine To 100 mQ of an acetonitrile solution of 4.4 g of l methyl 4 4 hydroxybenzoyl piperazine and 4.94 g of 7 methoxy 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro l naphthyl carboxylic acid was added 4.94 g of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide, and the resulting mixture was stirred overnight. After removing insolubles by filtration franthereaction liquid, the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure, and the concentrate charged with 50 mQ of 0.5N hydrochloric acid was washed with ethyl acetate. The aqueous layer was neutralized with a sodium bicarbonate solution and extracted with ethyl acetate. After being washed with water and dried, the extract was distilled to remove the solvent to obtain a crude oily product. The crude oily product was purified by silica gel chromatography elution solvent chloroform methanol, 30 1 to obtain 7.57 g of an oily product. Using the usual method, the oily product thus obtained was converted into a corresponding methanesul fonate to obtain 6.2 g yield 61.6 of pale yellow needles, m.p. 150 to 1510C. Reference Example 10 l Ethoxycarbonylmethyl 4 4 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro l naphthoyloxy benzoyl piperazine To 50 mt of an ethyl acetate solution of 5.52 g of l ethoxycarbonylmethyl 4 4 hydroxybenzoyl piperazine and 2.83 mQ of triethylamine was added dropwise with ice cooling 10 mQ of an ethyl acetate solution of 3.95g of 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro l naphthoylchloride. The result ing mixture was stirred at room temperature for 4 hours, neutralized with sodium bicarbonate and then extracted with chloroform.After being washed with water and dried, the extract charged with 30 mQ of ethanol was converted by the usual method into a corresponding methanesulfonate, whereby 8.0 g yield 87.1 of 1 ethoxycarbonylmethyl 4 4 1,2,3, 4 trtrahydro l naphthoyl oxy benzoyl piperazine methanesulfonate was obtained as colorless crystals, m.p. 149 to 151.50C. Elementary analysis for C26H30N205 CH3SO3H C H N Calculated 59.33 6.27 5.12 Found 59.35 6.29 5.06 Reference Examples 11 to 24 Using any one procedure of Reference Examples 1 to 10, the following compounds were obtained. 11. 1 Cyclohexyl 4 4 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro 1 naphthoyloxy benzoyl piperazine methanesul fonate yield 86.28 appearance colorless needles m.p. 205 to 2070C 12. l Isopropyl 4 4 l,2,3,4 tetrahydro l naphthoyloxy benzoyl1 piperazine methanesul fonate yield 89.78 appearance colorless needles m.p. 180 to 182 C 13. 1 Ethyl 4 4 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro 1 naphthoyl oxy benzoyl piperazine methanesulfonate yield 69.2 appearance colorless needles m.p. 140 to 143 C 14. l Methyl 4 4 4 methoxy l, 2,3, 4 tetrahydro l naphthoyloxy benzoyl piperazine yield 56.8 appearance colorless oily product m.p. 15. 1 Benzyl 4 4 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro l naph thoyloxy benzoyl piperazine methanesulfonate yield 77.4 appearance colorless needles m.p. 188 to 1900C 16. 1 Methyl 4 4 6 methoxy 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro l naphthoyloxy benzoyl piperazine yield 42.2 appearance oily product m.p. 17. 1 Isopropylaminocarbonylmethyl 4 4 7 methoxy 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro 1 naphthoyloxy benzoyl piperazine yield 54.1 appearance colorless oily product m.p.. 18. 1 Isopropylaminocarbonylmethyl 4 4 1,2,3, 4 tetrahydro 1 naphthoyloxy benzoyl pipera zine methanesulfonate yield 70.08 appearance colorless needles m.p. 186 to 1880C 19. 1 Pyperizinocarbonylmethyl 4 4 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro l naphthoyloxy benzoyl piperezine methanesulfonate yield 75.6 appearance colorless needles m.p. 199 to 203.50C 20. l Piperizinoethyl 4 4 1,2,3, 4 tetrahydro l naphthoyloxy benzoyl piperazine dihydro chloride yield 63.1 appearance Ç pale yellow needles m.p. 2700C 21. l Morpholinocarbonylmethyl 4 4 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro l naphthoyloxy benzoyl piperaz ine methanesulfonate yield 75.6 appearance colorless needles m.p. 211 to 2150 22. 1 Dimethylaminocarbonylmethyl 4 4 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro l naphthoyloxy benzoyl piperazine methanesulfonate yield 74.0t appearance colorless needles m.p. 182 to 185 C 23. l Isopropylaminocarbonylethyl 4 4 1,2,3, 4 tetrahydro l naphthoyloxy benzoyl pipera zine yield 82.0 appearance oily product m.p. 24. 1 Carbamoylmethyl 4 4 1,2,3, 4 tetrahydro l naphthoyloxy benzoyli piperazine methane suIfonate yield 82.4 appearance colorless needles m.p. 207 to 2120C This invention now being fully described, it is apparent to those versed in the art that many changes and modifications can be made to the invention without departing the spirit or scope of the invention set forth herein.