# Caravan door, hinge member therefor, method of assembling of said door and caravan comprising a door surround.

## Abstract
The invention is concerned with a caravan door of the kind comprising a frame, constituted by a peripheral frame member 6 and front and rear facing panels 10,11 enclosing an interior cavity. Hinge members 16 are mounted on the frame member 6 with portions 18 thereof extending through slots 14 in the frame member into the interior cavity 13 . Connected to and extending between said portions 18 is a cross member 20 . The hinge members 16 are urged into tight abutting engagement with the frame member 6 by bracing means in the form of spacer members 24 acting between the interior of the framework 6 and the cross member 20 . Inter engagement between foam material fil ling the cavity 13 with the portions 18 and the cross member 20 restrains movement of the hinge members rela tive to the door as a whole, whereby the longitudinal axis of the hinge members 16 are retained in a desired alignment. Advantageously the caravan comprises a door surround providing the opening, which provides one or more lip por tions 54 which are inclined to the plane of the opening 4 in a manner such as to present a sloping surface to the door on closing movement thereof.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A caravan door of t e kind specified, coliprising a frame member through wich two slots extend in spaced relationsllip to one another along one side thereof, and two hinge members located against the frame member one adjacent to each of the slots, each hinge member comprising a part, or having secured thereto a separate part, which extends through tlle slot into the interior cavity of tlle door, material in the cavity restraining movenient of said parts in tlle cavity, and hence movement of the hinge members relative to the fraiiie meniber. 2. A caravan door according to Claim 1 wherein the frame comprises spaced front and rear facing panels and each of said parts extends into the interior cavity between said facing panels. 30 A caravan door according to Claim 2 wherein each of said parts extends transversely of said side of the frame member away from the hinge member witji which it is associated. 4. A caravan door according to any one of the preceding clainis wherein each of said parts is apertured with material in the cavity extending througil tlie apertures. 5. A caravan door according to any one of the preceding claims comprising a further member in said interior cavity which is connected to and extends between said parts, said further member acting in conjunction with the material in tiie cavity to restrain movement of tlle hinge members relative to the franc member. 6. A caravan door according to any one of the preceding clainis comprising bracing nieans operative at least initially to hold the hinge members ill tigiltly abutting relationship with the frame member. 7. A caravan door according to Claim 6 wherein said bracing means is operative between the frame member and said parts. 8. A hinge member accordi llg to Claim 6, as appendant to claim 5, wherein said bracing means is operative between the frame member and said further member. 9. A method of assembly of a caravan door of the kind specified, in which a part of a framework is assembled, comprising at lest one peripheral frame member and a facing panel secured to tiie frame member, said frame member being afforded with two slots extending in spaced relation along one side of the framework b two hinge members, each comprising or having a part secured thereto, are presented to the frame member from t e ollter side t lereof and the part of each is inserted tllrougAl one of the slots c a cross member is connected to, extending between the two parts on the idler side of the frame member d bracing means is positioned between the cross member and the inner side of tlie frame member to pull the hinge members into close abutment with the outer side of tiie frame member e the second facing panel is secured to tile frame member in spaced relation with tiie first said facing panel, affording in colltiunction therewith and with the frame nlelllber a cavity within which said parts of the gline members, the cross member and the bracing means extend f hinge members of the door are mounted on a jig which retain the hinge members in a desired axial orientation relative to the door g a curable plastics material is injected into the cavity. lOo A caravan comprising a door surround providing an opening, corner portions of which are concave curved, and a door mounted for movement relative to the opening between open and closed positions, the door being provided with convex curved corner portions, wherein the door surround provides one or more lip portions inclined to the plane of the opening in a manner such as to present a sloping surface to the door on closing movement thereof, 11. A caravan according to Claim 10 wherein there is one such lip portion wliicli is continuolls around tiie interior of the surround, and which presents a continuous sloping surface to tlie door, 12. A caravan according to Claim 11 wherein the sloping surface is concave curved in planes extending at right angles to the plane of the opening. 13. A caravan according to ally one of claims 10,11 and 12 comprising a continuous resilient seal which is resiliently compressed between tlle door and said sloping surface on closing of the door. 13. A caravan door, constructed an 3 arranged substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to tiie accompanying drawings. 11. A method of assembly of a caravan door, when carried out substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to the accompanying drawi.ngs.

## Description
Title Improvements relating to doors Description of Invention This invention concerns improvelllents relating to doors, and ill particular to caravan doors. In the manufacture of caravans, it is desirable practice to provide a surround bounding a door opening which is afforded with hinge parts, upon which a prefrabricated door comprising complimentary hinge members is hung. This requires the door to have been prefabricated with the hinge members in accurate, predetermined positions. The difficulty of providing a caravan door with accurately located hinge members is compounded where the door is of the kind hereinafter referred to as being of the kind specified comprising a frame which bounds an interior cavity filled with for example cellular plastics material. According to this invention there is provided a caravan door of tulle kind specified, comprising a frame member, through which two slots extend in spaced relationship to one another along one side thereof, and two hinge members located against the frame member one adjaceilt to each of the slots, each hinge member comprising a part, or iviiir, s cured thereto a separate part, which extends thro gb the slot into the interior cavity of the door, material. in said cavity restraining movement of said parts in tiie cavity, and hence movement of the hinge members relative to tlle frame member. Preferably, wiiere the frame complises spaced front and rear facing panels, each of said parts extends into the interior cavity between said front and rear facing panels, for example transversely of the said side of the frame member and away from the hinge member with which it is associated, and may be apertured with the material in the cavity, conveniently foam material, extending throughthe apertures. Said parts may act in conjunction with the foam material as the primary means of prevention of movement of the hinge members relative to the frame member alternatively or in addition a further member connected to and extending between the said parts may act on conjunction with the foam material as a means of restrain to movement of the hinge members relative to the frame member. Preferably bracing means is utilised, operative at least initially to hold the hinge members in a tightly abutting relationship with tale frame member. Such bracing means may be operati.are between the frame member and the said parts, or if present between tlie frame member and the further member. This invention also provides a method of assembly of a caravan door of the kind specified, in which a part of a framework is assembled, comprising at least one peripheral frame member and a facing panel secured to tiie frame member, said frame member being afforded with two slots extending in spaced relation along one side of the framework b two hinge members, each comprising or having a part secured thereto, are presented to the frame member from the outer side thereof and the part of each is inserted through one of the slots c a cross member is connected to, extending between the two parts on the inner side of the frame member d bracing means is positioned between the cross memlvcr and tlle inner title of the frame member to pull the hinge n enibers into close abutment with the outer side of the frame member e the second facing panel is secured to the frame member in spaced relation with the first said facing panel, affording in conjunction therewith and with the frame member a cavity within which said parts of the hinge members, the cross member and the bracing means extend f hinge members of the door are mounted on a jig which retain the hinge members in a desired axial orientation relative to the door g a curable plastics material is injected into tilt cavity. The invention may be used with advantage both in caravan doors of unitary constructioll, or in caravan doors of tlle stable door coiistruction. This invention also provides a caravan comprising a door surround providing all opening, corner portions of which are concave curved, and a door mounted for movenjoilt relativc to the opening between open and closed positions, the door being provided witll coiivex curved corner portions, wherein the door surround provides one or more lip portions inclilled to tllc plane of the opening in a manner such as to present a sloping surface to the door on closing movement thereof. Preferably there is one such lip portion which is continuous around the interior of the surround, and which presents a continuous sloping surface to the door.Advantageously the sloping surface is concave curved in planes extending at rigllt angles to the plane of the opening. Advantageously a continuous resilient seal is provided which is resiliently compressed between the door and the said sloping surface on closing of the door. There will now be given a detailed description, to be read with reference to the accompanying drawings, of a caravan door which is a preferred embodiment of this invention, and which has been selected to illustrate the invention by way of example. In the drawings FIGWE 1 is an exploded perspective view of one corner of tlie caravan door FIGURE 2 is a side elevation of one side of the door, and FIGURE 3 is a sectional view corresponding generally to a section taken on the line A A of Figure 2, but showillg the door position in relation to an associated door opening. The caravan door whicll is the preferred embodiment of this invention is adapted to be mounted in relation to a door opening 4 Figtire 3 defined by a perip1Ieraji frame or surround 20 The door, being a door of the kind specified, comprises a france which bounds an interior cavity 13, said frame comprising a peripheral frame member 6 in the form of an extrusion of alltminium or aluminiuin alloy of channel cross section. The member 6 is provided with internal peripheral slots 9 within respective ones of which front and rear facing panels 10,11 of the frame may be mounted, and an exterior channel 12.One of the ribs 8a, defining the slot 8, is inclined slightly, extending generally into the interior cavity 13 between the facing pane is 10 and 11. At two spaced positions on one side of the frame member 6 through extending slots 14,14 are provided, and located in each is a hinge member 16. Each hinge member 16 comprises, on the interior of the frame member, an apertured web 18, and extending between the two apertured webs 18 is a cross member 20, secured thereto by a key hole arrançnent 22. Braced between end portions of the cross member 20 and an internal part of the frame member 6 are two spacer members 24. These serve resiliently to pull the webs 18 into the cavity 13, and to pull a flange 26 of each of the hinge members into tight abutment with the frame member within the channel 12, and a lip 12a, defining one side of the channel 12 into a complimentary slot provided in the hinge member. Witiiiii the cavit 13 between the facing panels 10,11 including the space between the cross member 20 and the frame member 6, and extending tllrougll the apertures of the webs 18 is a body of rigid foam material. This serves not only as an infill material for the cavity of the door, but also serves to restrain movement of the cross member 20 and the webs 18, and hence the hinge members, relative to the frame member. Thus, location of the flanges 26 within the channel 22 serves to prevent twisting movement of the hinge menbersand the action of the foam material within the cavity of the door prevents orthogonal separative movement between the hinge member and the frame, and also prevents tilting separative movement between hinge members and frame. In the preferred embodiment, each web 18 is integral with its associated hinge member. However, if desired, the webs may be formed initially separately from the hinge members, and may be welded, brazed or otherwise connected to the hinge member subsequently.Thus, webs larger than those illustrated in the accompanying drawings may be used, each being secured to a part of an associated hinge member subsequent to the insertion of such part to one of the slots 14.Thus, and particularly where the webs are provided with transverse ribs 19 as siio i in tlie drawings , in certain constructions the cross member 20 may be dispensed with. Additionally, in the preferred embodiment, bracing means in the form of spacer members 24 is used. However, it may be possible to pull the webs 18 into the interior of the cavity, and hence tiie hinge members into tight abutment with the frame member within the channel 12, by the use of tension wires. In the assembly of the caravan door wllich is the preferred embodiment of this invention, one of the facing panels 10 or 11 is located within its associated internal slot 8 or 9 of the peripheral frame member 6, and the webs 18 of the two hinge members are each inserted througll one of the two througil extending slots 14.The cross member 20 is then collected to said two webs by the key hole arrangement 22. The two spacer members are then inserted between that side of the frame member which is provided with the slots 14, and the cross member 20, pulling the webs 18 firmly into the interior of tlie door, and the hinge members 6 into close abutment within tiie exterior chaimel 12 of the frame member 6. The other facing panel is then inserted into its respective peripheral slot. The hinge members of the doer are then mounted on the pills of a Jig J shown Ill Figure 2 to ensure that axial alignment of the hinge members 16 is retained whilst foam plastics material is injected into the interior cavity of tiie door, as defined by the front and rear facing panels and the peripheral frame member. Durblg such injection, air wliicii is displaced fro the interior cavity of the door is expelled through the small gaps which exist between the hinge members and their respective slots 14, such gaps however being insuffiently large to perniit the escape of any significant quantity of the foan material itself. On completion of curing the foam material, the hinge members 1G are restrained against movement relative to the door from desired axial orientations by virtue of t.lte inter engagement of the foam plastics material with the webs 18 of the hinge members, and with the cross member 20.Thus, the door may be removed from the jig, and mounted on hinge pins 3 afforded by the peripheral surround 2, without difficulty. The door which is the preferred embodiment of this invelltiol1 is a one piece door having two convex curved corner portions.The door surround is provided with a contirnious lip portion 54 which is inclined to the plane of the opening in a maiuier such as to present a sloping surface to the door on closing movement thereof, and in particular a sloping surface which is concavecurved in planes extending at right angles to the plane of the opening See Figure 3 .Secured in a slot 55 extending around an interior.periplleral corner of the frame member 6 is a resiliejit sealing gasket 56, which on closing movement of the door is traLvp d against the lip portion 54, to ensure a tight seal between the door and the peripheral surround 2.By tlie use of this expedient, a tight seal may be so obtained with a somewhat less strict requirement of accuracy in both alignment of the door within the opening, and in the size of the door relative to the opening0 In particular, even though the door may be mounted relative to the opening slightly ascew, the capability of the resilient seal 54 to be deformed allows a tight seal to be obtained In a two piece stable door , all four corners thereof may be of convex curved form. In the preferred embodiment, not only the webs 18, but preferably also the cross member 20 and the spacer members 24 are provided with perforations, foam plastics material entering these perforations and assisting restraining of the hinge members from their correct positions.