# Filter means for high viscosity liquids and process for the filtration of molten polymers employing such filter means.

## Abstract
Filter means for high viscosity liquids involving a replaceable filtration unit generally of the self sealing semi disposable type having a screen 6 to support inert granular material 16 within a housing 9 , wherein an improvement comprises the screen s rim being swaged into the housing 9 , preferably with an interference fit within the range of 0.125 to 0.4 mm. The filter means of this invention are especially appl icable to the extrusion of molten polymers into shaped arti cles, and accordingly the invention provides a process for such use.

## Claims
Cl aims 1. Filter means for high viscosity liquids involving a replaceable filtration unit comprising a housing 9 having an inlet port 19 and an exit port 20 and a rimmed screen 6 between the ports for filtering the liquids, characterised in that the screen s rim is swaged into the housing. 2. Filter means as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that the swaged rim has an interference fit .Ithln the range of 0.125 to 0.4 mm. 3. Filter means as claimed in claim 1 or 2, characterised in that a grooved bridge plate 5 is located downstream of the screen and the screen s rim is swaged into the bridge plate. 4. Filter means for high viscosity liquids involving a replaceable pack comprising a housing 9 having an inlet port 19 and an outlet port 20 , a lid 15 having an inlet port 11 and being rigidly connected via a first gasket 7 to the housing 9 around the housing s inlet port 19 , an extrusion die 2 rigidly connected via a second gasket 3 around the housing s outlet port 20 , an internal lip 5 within the housing between the extrusion die 2 and the inlet port 19 of the housing, means for filtering the fluid immediately upstream of the lip, which filtering means comprises inert granular material 16 immediately upstream of a supporting rimmed fine mesh screen 6 whose rim contacts the housing s internal lip 5 , characterised in that the screen s rim is swaged into the housing, whereby there is a reduced chance of some of the liquid or granular material by passing the screen. 5. Filter means as claimed in claim 4, characterised in that the swaged rim has an interference fit within the range of 0.125 to 0.4 mm. 6. Filter means as claimed in claim 4 or 5, characterised in that the screen is at least partly annular in shape. 7. Filter means as claimed in any of claims 4 to 6, characterised in that a grooved bridge plate 5 is located downstream of the screen, the screen is in the shape of a top hat, and the screen s rim s inner surface is swaged into the bridge plate. 8. Filter means as claimed in any of claims 4 to 7, characterised in that the first gasket is a metal sleeve having a length L, outer diameter D, and wall thickness T and the housing s inlet port has a square step around the inlet port s inner face, the square step having a radial depth approximately equal to T L and a height h which is less than L, the value of L T being in the range of 2 to 10. 9. Filter means as claimed in claim 8, characterised in that the lid has a counter bore of diameter approxim.l ely equal to D and depth d, and the value of the sulil of h and d is less than L in the unassembled state and equal to L in,the assembled state. 10. Filter means as claimed in claim 8 or 9, characterised in that LT is in the range of 4 to 7. T 11. Filter means as claimed in any of claims 8 to 10, characterised in that T is in the range of 0.635 to 2.5 mm. 12. Filter means as claimed in any of claims 8 to 11, characterised in that the metal sleeve comprises aluminium, copper, mild steel or stainless steel. 13. Filter means as claimed in any of claims 4 to 12, characterised in that the housing has a second lip around the housing s outlet port, and the extrusion die is rigidly connectable to the second lip via the second gasket by reason of pressure of the liquid to be filtered. 14. Process for the filtration of molten polymers comprising forcing them under pressure through filter means, characterised in that the filter means are as claimed in any of claims 1 to 13. 15. Process as claimed in claim 14, characterised in that the filtered polymers are subjected to extrusion into shaped articles.

## Description
Filter means for high viscosity liquids and process for the filtration of molten polymers employing such filter means. The invention relates to filter means for high viscosity liquids involving a replaceable filtration unit or pack and to a process for the filtration of molten polymers employing such filter means. Such molten polymers have high viscosity and are forced through the filter means under pressure, generally so as to be extruded into shaped articles such as filaments and films. Packs for filtering pressurized high viscosity polymeric material and forming the filter liquid into spun filaments are well knovnin the art. A pack of relatively recent design and its mode of operation is disclosed in U.S. Patent 3 307 216.Typically, all such packs are assembled from a mixture of re useable components such as housing, lid, spinnerette and disposable components such as inert granular material, gaskets, and screens for supporting the inert granular material . The average time interval between replacing packs has a significant effect on both the economics of the process and the quality of the product. The invention arose out of the discovery that the type of pack disclosed in the fore mentionedU.S. Patent 3 307 216 had certain drawbacks, particularly for the spinning of highly viscous material at high throughputs. In particular, it was found that some of the seals for controllinrj polymer flow . ffi not consistently effective, resulting in both exte polymer leaks out of the pack, and internal polymer leaks or by passing within the pack. Both types of leak are highly undesirable. The present invention, in which the rim ot the screen supporting the inert granular material is sac into the housing, has been found to reduce signific nt. the number of these highly undesirable leaks, has been found in addition to halve the time to assemble the pack components into an integral unit. The improved seal design may be used with advantage in any replaceable filter of the type described regardless of whether the filter is integrally combined with an extrusion die. The improved seal designs are extremely valuable in melt spinning packs designed for use in combination with alread constructed apparatus that imposes severe space limitations. The invention is surprising, particularly since the type of seal shown in U.S. Patent 3 307 216 has been used commercially for over ten years in the manufacture of many billions of kilograms of fiber. The invention provides filter means for high viscosi liquids involving a replaceable filtration unit comprising a housing 9 having an inlet port 19 and an exit port 20 and a rimmed screen 6 between the ports for filtering the liquids, characterised in that the screen s rim is swaged into the housing. The invention, in its preferred form, provides filter means for high viscosity liquids involving a replaceable pack comprising a housing 9 having an inlet port 19 and an outlet port 20 , a lid 15 having an inlet port 11 being rigidly connected via a first gasket 7 to the housing 9 around the housing inlet port 19 , an extrusion die 2 rigidly connected via a second gasket 3 around the housing s outlet port 20 , an internal lip. 5 within the housing between the extrusion die 2 and the inlet port 19 of the hous ing, means for filtering the fluid immediatcl upstream of the lip, which filtering means comprises inert granular material 16 immediately upstream of a supporting rimmed fine mesh screen 6 whose rim contacts the housing s internal lip 5 , characterised in that the screen s rim is swaged into the housing, whereby there is a reduced chance of some of the liquid or granular material by passing the screen. The invention also provides a prime application of the new filter means, in which the latter s advantages are fully developed in this application, molten polymers are forced under pressure through the new filter means, generally in such a way as to subject the polymer to extrusion into shaped articles, such as fibres or films. The invention is thus especially applicable to melt spinning of polymers. Reference is made to the drawings in which FIGURE 1 is a vertical cross section of an a se .b.icd filter means of the invention in the form of a melt spinning pack. FIGURES 2, 3 AND 4 are horizontal fragmentary cross sections along lines 2 2, 3 3 and 4 4 respectively of FIGURE 1. FIGURE 5 is a perspective view of an unassembled top hat screen and corresponds to item 6 of FIGCE 1 in assembled form. FIGURE 6 is an enlarged view of Zone A of FIC 1.as it looks during assembly of the pack prior to time swaging operation. FIGURE 7 is an enlarged view of Zone B of FlGURE 1. The figures illustrate some preferred embodir ents of the invention. Figure 1 is a vertical cross section of an zsscrbled melt spinning pack incorporating the invention. In particular, Figure 1 shows an improved replaceable pack for filtering pressurized high viscosity molten polymer and extruding the fi red polymer into shaped articles such as filaments and films, which pack comprises a housing 9 having an inlet port 19 and an outlet port 20 , a lid 15 having in inlet port 11 and ail exit port 21 and the lid being rigidly connected via a first gasket 7 to the housing around the lid exit port and around the housing s inlet port, an extrusion die 2 rigidly connected via a second gasket 3 around the housing s outlet port, an internal lip 5 within the housing between the extrusion die and tne inlet port of the housing, means for filtering the fluid immediately upstream of the lip, which filtering means comprises inert granular material 16 if Eeediatel y upstream of a supporting rimmed fine mesh screen 6 whose annular rim contacts the housing s internal lip 5 , wherein the improvement comprises said screen s rim is swaged into said housing, whereby there is a reduced chance of some of said fluid and said granular material by passing said screen.Likewise, Figure 1 also illustrates an improved replaceable filtration unit for high viscosity fluids, which filter unit comprises a housing 9 having an inlet port 19 and an exit port 20 , a rimmed fine mesh screen 6 between the ports for filtering the fluid, wherein the improvement comprises said screen s rim is swaged into said housing. Figure 6 is an enlargement of Zone A prior to swaging of the rim 6 into both the housing 9 and a grooved bridge plate 5 . The screen is in the shape of a top hat and at least partly annular. It is preferred that the total radial interference fit imposed upon the rim of the screen be between 0.125 to 0.4 millimetre. Thus, in Figure 6, the dimension A2 is greater than dimension A1, by an amount within the range of about 0.125 to 0.4 millimetre. Also, the dimension 32 is preferably greater than the dimension B1 by an amount of up to 0.05 millimetre. Figure 7 is an enlargement of Zone B of Figure 1, and shows the seal between the pack housing c d lid. It shows a first gasket 7 in the form of a netal sleeve having a length L, outer diameter D, a1d wall thickness T and the housing s inlet port 9 has a square step around its inner face. The square step has a radial depth of about i and a height h. The value of h must be less than the value of L. It is preferred that the value of L be in the range 2 to T 10, and most preferably in the range 4 to 7. It is preferred that T be in the range from 0.635 to 2.5 millimetres. The metal sleeve is preferably aluminium, copper, mild steel or stainless steel.It is preferred that the inside face of the lid has a counter bore of diameter D and depth d, and the value of the sum of h and d is equal to L in the assembled state and less than L is in the unassembled state. It is preferred that the third and remaining seal with the pack, the seal between the extrusion die 2 and the housing s outlet port 20 be obtained conventionally as shown in Figure 1, which shows the housing 9 having a second lip around its outlet port 20 that is rigidly connected to the extrusion die via a second gasket 3 by means of the pressure of the pressurized fluid wittin the pack. hile the foregoing, in combination with the drawings, illustrates the broaistand most preferred embodiments of the invention, it will of course be appreciated that other embodiments of the invention come within the scope of the broadest claims.