# Treatment of industrial wastewater.

## Abstract
An industrial wastewater treatment method is de cribed whereby heavy metals dissolved in the waste water are precipitated as a slurry which, when allowed to settle, will form a sludge containing at least 10 weight percent solids. In the method, an aqueous sus pension or solution of a neutralizing agent is introduced into a first reactor. A suspension containing particles of carrier agent is also introduced into the first reactor. A portion, if not all, of the neutralizing agent is ad sorbed on the surface of the particles of the carrier, which are maintained in suspension in the first reactor. The carrier, with its absorbed neutralizing agent, is passed to a second reactor and simultaneously the contaminated industrial wastewater is added to the second reactor. The pH of the wasterwater is adjusted to a range between 8.4 and 10.6 by the neutralizing agent. Within such pH range, a substantial portion, if not all, of the heavy metals are precipitated in the form of a slurry. The mixture in the second reactor is passed to a solids separation device. The solids in the slurry settle to the bottom of the device to form a sludge which is removed therefrom. Purified water is removed as an overflow from the separation device. Optionally, a flocculant may be added to aid in setting the solids. Insoluble calcium salts may also be precipitated in the second reactor. Such insoluble salts are adsorbed on the surface of the carrier and or the heavy metal slurry particles and become part of the sludge formed in the separation device.