# Refrigerator and or heat pump working fluids.

## Abstract
A refrigerant for a refrigerating machine, ie, a refrigerator or a heat pump, comprises an azeotrope of water, an alcohol containing not more than 6 carbon atoms and, preferably, an ether, most preferably corresponding to the alcohol. The refrigerant is suitable for use in compression machines. When combined with an aqueous solution containing a salt of a metal conventionally used in absorption machines, it may be used in the latter.

## Claims
Claims 1. A refrigerating machine containing a refrigerant characterised by the fact that the refrigerant comprises an azeotrope of water and an azeotrope forming alcohol containing not more than 6 carbon atoms per nolecule. 2. A refrigerating machine according to claim 1 comprising additionally an azeotrope forming ether containing 2 to 12 carbon atoms per molecule. 3. A refrigerating machine according to either of the preceding clains wherein the ether corresponds to the alcohol present in the refrigerant. 4. A refrigerating machine according to ny of the preceding claims wherein the refrigerant is in combination with an aqueous solution of a metallic salt. 5. A refrigerating machine according to claim 4 wherein the metallic salt is a halide or thiocyanate of an alkali or alkaline earth netal or zinc.

## Description
REFRIGERATOR N OR HEAT PUiP WORKING FLUIDS This invention relates to a refrigerant suitable for use in refrigerating machines. Snen such nachines are used for cooling they are termed refrigerators, when they are used for extracting heat they are termed heat pumps. Two types of refrierating machines are commonly available compression machines an absorption machines. In a compression machine the working fluid, known as the refrigerant, works on a cycle in which it is alternatively compressed and liquified, thus giving up heat to its surroundings, and expanded and vaporised, thus abstracting heat fron its surroundings. In an absorption machine the working fluid is a mixture of an absorbent and absorbate. The absorbent is usually an aqueous solution containing certain inorganic salts and the absorbate, the refrigerant in this case, is a volatile fluid. Cooling is achieved by evaporating the liquid refrigerant in an evaporator. The vaporised refrigerant is then passed to an absorber where it is absorbed in the absorbent with liberation of heat. The solution of absorbent and absorbate subsequently flows to a generator which is heated to drive off refrigerant in the vapor form. The absorbent solution which still contains a little refrigerant then returns to the generator. The vaporised refrigerant is condensed by heat exchange with an external coolant and the liquid refrigerant returns to the evaporator to begin another cycle. DT OS 2644474 is oncerned with working fluids containing lower alcohols, water and inorganic salts. DT OS 2852312 covers working fluids containing C13 amines or alcohols, water and inorganic salts. DT OS 2856767 describes working fluids containing C12 amines and amoria or water and absorber solutions containing water, glycol and inorganic salts. None of these discloses the use of an azeotrope, however. The International arganisation of Standardisation publication ISO 817 1974 E lists certain azeotropic mixtures of halogerated hydrocarbons as refrigerants. We have now discovered that the combination of a substance which forms an azeotrope with water is advantageous for various reasons.Refrigerants containing water make use of the high eva oration enthalpy of water. Furthermore, by using a suitable conbination of substances the working range can be extended and the beneficial properties of the individual substances can be conbinec with each other. Moreover, as compared with water as a working fluid, the freezing point of the fluid can be lowered. Finally, azeotropes have a uniform boiling point, so that no fractionation or rectification is necessary. Azeotropes according to the invention usuallv possess a boiling point minimum as against the individual components. As a result of this the refrigerant has a higher vapour pressure at given tenperatures and given pressures compared with the individual cozponents, which has an advantageous effect for the evaporation.However, azeotropes may also be used which have a boiling point maximum. As a result of this in certain cases the advantage of a higher condensation temperature may be achieved at given pressure on the condenser side. According to the present invention there is proviced a refrigerating machine containing a refrigerant comprising an azeotrope of water and an azeotroe forming alcohol containing not more than 6 carbon atoms per molecule. Suitable alcohols include ethanol, n propanol and isopropanol. Preferably the refrigerant also contains an ether containing 2 12 carbon atons per molecule. Most preferably the ether used corresponds to the alcohol used in te refrigerant. This has te added advantage that a side reaction w .ic often occurs in suc refrigerants, namely the dehydration of the alcohol to the either, can be suppressed by influencing the chemical equilibrium. Suitable ternary azeotropic systems include isopropanol isopropyl ether water propanol propyl ether water 1 butanol butyl ether water and 2 butanol butyl ether water. The above refrigerants are suitable for use in compression and absorption type machines. For the latter, the refrigerant is preferably used in conbination with an aqueous solution of a salt conventionally used in absorption type machines. Such salts are used to increase the absorptive power of the alkali and alkaline earth metes and zinc. The referred halides are chlorides, bronides and iodizes and the preferred metals are lithium, magnesium and calcium.