# Apparatus for use in the production of wiring looms.

## Abstract
To facilitate the automation of the entire process of the production of wiring looms, including the setting up of the loom board prior to the production of a particular batch the present invention provides a loom board base 1 adapted to receive and releasably hold a pluraliry of guide pins 23 . The base includes a table 2 comprising an upper and lower paral lel wire mesh sheet frames 10, 11 . A pair of actuators 14 are actuable to separate these frames to release pins previously held on the table with shaft portions thereof projecting through the upper frame and terminating in pointed end por tions 25 held by layers, of resilient material 21, 22 of the lower frame 11 . The table 2 is rotatably mounted on a frame 3 for inversion to permit the released pins to fall under gravity from the table.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A loom board base for receiving and releasably holding a plurality of guide pins in position to project on one side of the board at predetermined points thereon, the base including a table comprising a pair of superposed parallel sheets of which at least one is provided with an array of apertures through which, in use, end portions of said pins can pass, and of which the other is adapted to receive and inhibit lateral movement of the ends of the pins, thereby to hold each said pin in position as aforesaid, actuator means being provided to effect relative separationqf said sheets in a direction normal to the sheets thereby, when in use, to release the ends of the pins from the said other sheet to permit removal of the pins from the table. 2. A base according to claim 1 including mean s for inverting the table from a working position in which the said one sheet is uppermost to an inverted position in which said other sheet is uppermost, to allow the pins, when in use, to fall under gravity from the table upon separation, in said inverted position of the sheets. 3. A base according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein said one sheet is a mesh work screen and is carried on a peripheral framework. 4. A base according to claim 3 wherein said other sheet includes a meshwork layer facing said one sheet and is also carried on a peripheral framework, said actuator means being connected to said frameworks to effect relative displacement thereof. 5. A base according to claim 4 wherein said other sheet further includes a first layer of penetrable resilient material adjacent said meshwork layer, a relatively rigid board, and a second layer of foamed material between said backing board and said first layer. 6. A base according to claim 5 wherein said first layer is made of polyurethane rubber, and said second layer is made of a relatively dense synthetic foam. 7. A base according to any of claims 4 to 6 wherein the table includes a peripheral support frame enclosing the said frameworks of which one is fixed relative to the support frame, and of which the other is coupled to be displaced by one or more linear actuators constituting said actuator means and mounted on said support frame. 8. An assemblage comprising a loom board base according to any preceding claim and a plurality of pins, each having a first portion which can, in use, pass through an aperture of said one sheet, and which terminates at an end of the pin tapered to form a point to facilitate penetration of the sheets, and further having a second portion which cannot pass through the aperture thereby to limit the extent to which the pin may penetrate the table. 9. An assemblage according to claim 8 wherein each pin is double ended as hereinbefore defined, said second portion comprising a length extending symmetrically from the centre of the pin toward both ends. 10. Apparatus for use in the production of wiring looms including a loom board or an assemblage according to any preceding claim and means, including an automatic manipulator, for assembling wiring looms on the board by laying lengths of wire on said table along predetermined paths to be defined by said guide pins after application of appropriate terminals to the ends of the wires, and by applying to said wires means to hold said wires together to constitute the assembled wiring loom

## Description
APPARATUS FOR USE IN THE PRODUCTION OF WIRING LOOMS This invention relates to apparatus for use in the production of wiring loons, and more particularly to a loom board base having a construction to facilitate the releasable attachment of guide pins. A wiring loom is an assembly of wires bound or otherwise held together as a bundle, for providing the required electrical connection between various electrical components in a piece of equipment. One particular field in which they are extensively used is in the manufacture of domestic and industrial powered vehicles, such as automobiles, lorries, industrial trucks, which include a large number of such electrical components. The loom or looms are commonly disposed in channels, or are otherwise fixed to the frame of the vehicle, the wires, individually indentified by means of colour coding extending between swztches wer source, lighting equipment, engine or motor components, fuses, steering gear, etc. It will be appreciated that the different components and relative disposition thereof in different vehicles requires that such looms be specially designed for the particular vehicle concerned. The construction of the looms involves the laying of wire lengths along predetermined paths marked on a board, and defined by a multiplicity of pins held in and projecting from the board and serving to hold the wires in place until all of the wires are laid. The wires, of which the ends are, or at some stage in the process have been appropriately terminated, are then taped, dipped or otherwise temporarily held together, and the loom removed from the board and subsequently braided to provide a more permanent binding. Hitherto, where the loom board has been of a somewhat permanent construction including a plywood base with hammered in pins, it has been necessary to retain a stock of boards, one for each type of loom to be produced. It is now envisaged that the manual operation of wire cutting, terminating, laying and binding be performed automatically by a pre programmed manipulator, and in order to avoid the necessity to provide enrage space for a stock of boards, and to maximise the advantages afforded by the use of such a manipulator, it is proposed that the production of a batch of wiring looms shall include the initial step of setting out of pins for any required loom on a universal loom board by the manipulator, rather than the selection of the board from the aforesaid stock. It is the object of this invention to provide a base constructed so as to facilitate such setting out of the loom board by the manipulator. According to the present invention there is provided a loom board base for receiving and releasably holding a plurality of guide pins in position to project on one side of the board at predetermined points thereon, the base including a table comprising a pair of superposed parallel sheets of which at least one is provided with an array of apertures through which, in use, end portions of said pins can pass, and of which the other is adapted to receive and inhibit lateral movement of the ends of the pins, thereby to hold each said pin in position as aforesaid, actuator means being provided to effect relative separation of said sheets in a direction normal to the sheets thereby, when in use, to release the ends of the pins from the said other sheet to permit removal of the pins from the table. Means may be provided for inverting the table from a working position in which the said one sheet is uppermost to an inverted position in which said other sheet is uppermost, to allow the pins, in use of the board to fall under gravity from the table upon separation, in said inverted pOSitiOn of the sheets. The said one sheet is preferably a meshwork s creen, the other sheet including a meshwork layer facing the said screen, each sheet being carried by one of a pair of superposed frameworks, arranged for relative displacement by the actuator means. The said other sheet may also include a first layer of penetrable resilient material, preferably polyuretham rubber, adjacent the meshwork layer, relatively rigid basking board, and a s cC d layer of foartedmaterial, preferably a relatively dense synthetic foam, between the backing board and the first layer. The two frameworks may be enclosed in a peripheral support frame, the framework of the one sheet being fixed relative to the support frame and that of the other sheet being coupled to be displaced by at least one linear actuator constituting the actuator means and mounted on the support frame. The invention also embraces an assemblage comprising a loom board base as hereinabove defined and a plurality of pins, each having a first portion which tan, in use, pass through an aperture of said one sheet, and which terminates at an end of the pin tapered to form a point to facilitate penetration of the sheets, and further havins a second portion which cannot pass through the aperture thereby to limit the extent to which the pin may penetrate the table. Further, the invention embraces apparatus for use in the production of wire looms, including a loom board or an assemblage as hereinbefore defined and means, including an automatic manipulator, for assembling wiring looms on the board by laying lengths of wire on said table along predetermined paths to be defined by said guide pins after application of appropriate terminals to the ends of the wires, and by applying to said wires means to hold said wires together to constitute the assembled wiring loom. An embodiment of the invention will now be described by way of example with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 1 is a plan view of a loom board base according to the invention Figure 2 is a side elevational view of the loom board base of Figure 1 Figure 3 is an end elevational view of the loom board base of Figure 1, and Figure 4 is a vertical section through a part of the loom board base of Figure 1. The loom board base 1 depicted in the drawings comprises a rectangular table 2 mounted on a pair of A shaped stands 3 for rotation about a horizontal axis. Other forms of stand, can be used, e.g. H shaped to provide for the mounting of equipment above the board. A pair of trunnion bearings 4 support the table by means of axially aligned stub shafts 5 projecting from opposite ends of the table. Mounted on one of the stands 3 is a rotary rack and pinion operated actuator 6, coupled to the respective shaft 5 to rotate the table 2 about the common axis of the two shafts between a working position, as shown in the drawings, and an inverted position rotationally displaced 1800 from the working position the purpose of such table inversion will be explained later herein. The table 2 comprises a rectangular skirt support frame 7 comprising two side and two end members 8 and 9 respectively. Disposed within the support frame 7 are two mesh frames 10 and 11, one superposed upon the other. The upper mesh frame 10 is fixed with respect to the support frame 7 at a position adjacent the upper rim of such frame 7. The lower frame 11, which is of slightly smaller dimensions than the upper frame 10, is, in the working position depicted, positioned beneath and immediately adjacent the upper frame 10. Pairs of linear actuators 14 carried by respective brackets 15 fixed to and depending from the opposite end members 9 of the support frame are arranged to maintain the lower mesh frame in this disposition in the working position of the table, but are actuable in the inverted position of the table to cause retraction of their respective piston rods 16 and consequently to affect a linear relative separation of the mesh frames, of which the lower one is connected to the said piston rods. The purpose of this separation will become apparent as this description proceeds. With reference to Figure 4 of the drawings, each mesh frame comprises a rectangular framework 17 made in this embodiment from square section tube. Other sections, such as a channel section may alternatively be used. Across the top face of each framework is a rectangular perforated sheet 18 of wire mesh. Such framework and mesh sheet constitute the upper mesh frame, whilst the lower mesh frame includes further elements disposed beneath the mesh sheet 18. Such elements comprise a rigid backing board 19 held in place by a number of retainer projections 20 projecting inwardly from the underside of the framework.Sandwiched between the backing board 19 and the mesh sheet 18 are two superposed contiguous sheets 21, 22, the upper sheet 21 being made of polyurethane rubber, or appropriate substitute, and disposed immediately beneath the mesh sheet 18, and a sheet 22.being made of dense natural or synthetic foam such as polystyrene. The total thickness of the sheets 21 and 22 and the backing board 19 is conveniently approximately equal to the dimension of the framework as measured through the mesh frame. The above described loom board base 1 is intended to be used in conjunction with guide pins 23 having a shape and configuration as illustrated in Figure 4. The pins are double ended, that is to say symmetrical about a point midway along their length such that a feeder which supplies the pins for handling by the automatic manipulator mentioned earlier need not distinguish one end of a pin from the other. It will be appreciated, however, that asymmetric pins may alternatively be employed, a suitable bowl feeder being used to present the pins with correct orientation for the manipulator. The pin is of circular cross section and comprises a central portion 24 of diameter greater than the aperture size of the mesh, to prevent such central portion passing through the mesh. The remainder of the pin, projecting on opposite sides of the central portion, is of diameter smaller than the aperture size, and each end of the pin is formed with a conical head 25 and an adjacent annular groove 26. The length of each part of the pin between the central portion 24 and the respective groove 26 is approximately equal to the distance between the two mesh sheets in the working position of the table. There follows a description of the manner in which the described loom board base and guide pins may be used to form a loom board for use in the production of wiring looms. With the table 2 maintained in its working position, the automatic manipulator takes hold of guide pins supplied by the feeder, one at a time, and places them at predetermined positions on the table. This it achieves by pushing the pin, which it holds in an orientation in which its axis extends normal to the plane of the mesh sheet 18, downward so that the lower end of thepin passes through an aperture in the upper mesh sheet 18, through the space 27 between the two mesh sheets and, through an aperture in the lower mesh sheet. It then pierces the polyurethane layer 21 and enters the foam layer 22. The annular shoulder at the lower end of the central portion of the then abuts the wire elements defining the aperture in the upper mesh sheet through which the pin extends, and the manipulator releases its grip upon the pin. The width groove 26, that is to say its dimension measured along the pin, is greater than the thickness of the layer 21, and the edge of the aperture produced as the pin pierces this layer can reflex into this groove to provide positive retention of the pin. This retention is enhanced by a gripping effect of the foam surrounding the pin head, this foam having been locally compressed upon entry of the pin head into the layer 22. The pin is accordingly held relatively firmly in an upright position. The manipulator proceeds to position a multiplicity of pins on the table to define the paths for the individual wires of the looms to be produced. It then proceeds with the production of the looms. Wires are cut, appropriately terminated, laid along the correct paths between the guide pins, and temporarily taped together. To remove the loom from the loom board, the rotary actuator 6 is operated to invert the table 2, whereupon the loom falls from the table onto a moving conveyor or other appropriate receiving member. The table is then re inverted to the working position, and another loom is assembled. After assembly and ejection of the last wiring loom of a production batch, the pins are removed from the table to prepare for the setting up of another loom board for a subsequent batch. The pins are removed by actuation of the linear actuators 14 in the inverted position of the table to cause a relative separation of the mesh frames as aforesaid. This separation causes withdrawal of the pin heads from the lower mesh frame 12, to cause the pins to fall under gravity onto the conveyor. The resilience of the rubber layer 21 and foam layer 22 is such that after withdrawal of the pin heads the apertures produced as the pins were placed on the table tend to close, and the gripping action upon pins subsequently placed at precisely the same locations as before will be substantially unaffected.