# CARIES INHIBITION

## Claims
Eine oral einnehmbare Zusammensetzung aus einer Kaseinkomponente und einem Trägerstoff, der entweder ein Nahrungsmittel einschließlich Süßigkeiten , eine Zusammensetzung zur topischen Anwendung für Zähne oder Mund oder ein pharmakologisch annehmbarer Trägerstoff zur oralen Anwendung ist in der genannten Kaseinkomponente ist ein wasserlösliches Kasein charakterisiert, das ein αs Kasein und oder ein β Kasein einschließt, und in einer Menge vorhanden ist, die Karies und Zahnfleischentzündung vorbeugt.

## Description
This invention relates to compositions with caries and gingivitis inhibiting properties. Galinski GB A 825115 has suggested the use of insoluble rennin casein for the inhibition of dental caries but discloses no tests to support this proposition. Huxley Journal of Dental Research, Volume 56, No. 8, August 1977, Page 900 though postulating that casein may have cariostatic potential and setting out to test whether a diet containing casein might be less cariogenic than one containing lactalbumin, shows that the presence of casein did not affect the incidence of caries. Huxley also used the insoluble form of the protein casein . Non soluble forms of casein are extremely unpalatable and for that reason are considered unsuitable as a caries and gingivitis inhibiting material for human use. It is now found, however, that certain water soluble caseins reduce the hydroxyapatite dissolution and substantially inhibit the adherence of the cariogenic bacterium to tooth material, which properties cannot be visualised from the aforesaid publications. As is shown hereinafter, these water soluble caseins are soluble in the oral fluids where they are found to have a caries inhibitory and anti gingivitis effect. Insoluble caseins do not have such effects. Accordingly the invention provides an orally introducible composition comprising a casein compound and a carrier therefor which is either a foodstuff including confectionery , a composition for topical application to teeth or to the mouth, or a pharmacologically acceptable carrier for oral administration, characterised in that said casein compound is a water soluble casein which includes α Preferably, the composition additionally contains urea. The composition of this invention may be in the form of a foodstuff including confectionery , dentrifice, tablet,lozenge or capsule, or comprise a pharmacologically acceptable carrier for topical application to the teeth or as a mouthwash. Of particular interest as compositions are chewing gum, breakfast foods, ice cream and other frozen confectionery, confectionery, sweets and cakes, as these are all known as caries problem foods. Also of particular interest are dentifrices, mouthwashes and preparations for topical application to teeth. α The purpose of this test is to determine hydroxyapatite dissolution and in this respect since tooth enamel is largely composed of hydroxyapatite it is believed that useful comparisons can be made. Double distilled, deionised water greater than 10 MΩ cm was used throughout. Analytical reagent grade chemicals were obtained from Ajax Chemicals, Australia. Hydroxyapatite spheroidal was purchased from BDH, and phosvitin from Sigma Chemical Co., Missouri, U.S.A. The milk proteins were fractionated by the method of Zittle and Custer 1 and their purity assessed by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis using a modification of the method of Groves and Kiddy 2 . A chromatography column pharmacia K9 15 containing 1 g of hydroxyapatite beads was used for the demineralisation assay. Tris 5 mM, pH 8.3 containing 50 mM NaCl and 20 mg l neomycin was used as the column influent buffer at 20 C and at a rate of 1.000 0.003 ml min. A protein solution 10 mg 10 ml of influent buffer was applied to the column and 1 ml fractions were collected before and after protein application and assayed for total calcium, phosphate and protein. From these values a rate of dissolution nmol calcium or phosphate per min for each 1 ml. fraction was obtained. Calcium, Phosphate and Protein Assays Inorganic phosphate was measured by the method of Itaya and Ui 3 and protein by the method of Bradford 4 . The determination of calcium was by atomic absorption spectrophotometry using 1 lanthanum chloride to prevent phosphate suppression. The proteins used for the study are listed in Table 1, they are all acidic proteins and included four phosphoproteins and three non phosphorylated proteins from the whey fraction of bovine milk. The effect of the individual proteins on hydroxyapatite dissolution rate is shown in Table 2. In a trial of the above test the dissolution rate of hydroxyapatite as measured by the rate of calcium and phosphate released from the hydroxyapatite column was constant over a two hour period calcium 353.6 3.9 nmol min, phosphate 225.4 6.8 nmol min. The dissolution rates obtained using different hydroxyapatite columns showed greater variation, calcium 354.2 23.8 nmol min, phosphate 229.6 30.8 nmol min, n 11. This intercolumn variation in dissolution rate could be attributable to different column packing resulting in a different HA surface area exposed. The effect of different materials on the dissolution rate of hydroxyapatite is shown in Figure 1. For example, phosvitin caused an initial increase in the dissolution rate of phosphate which then decreased and approached a new steady state level 63.8 nmol min less than the rate prior to phosvitin application. The protein caused an immediate and marked drop in the calcium dissolution rate which then increased and approached a steady state level 93.1 nmol min less than that prior to phosvitin application. The amount of protein that passed through the column was measured and from this the amount retained was calculated 1.87 mg. The dissolution rate returned to the original value after phosvitin was eluted from the column with 10 ml of eluent buffer containing 1.5 M phosphate, followed by buffer not containing phosphate. The trace for α The results obtained for β casein Fig. 3 were characteristic of all the other proteins tested, except for the final steady state rates of calcium and phosphate released. All proteins with the exception of phosvitin and α The tests have shown that all the acidic proteins caused a reduction in the steady state dissolution rate of hydroxyapatite. However, the greatest reduction was given by α From the above and from other data which suggests that adjacent phosphate groups of polyphosphoserine compounds have a spacing of about 6.88 x 10 1 nanometers 6.88 Å when in a beta pleated sheet configuration and that calcium atoms in a hydroxyapatite surface along the c axis will also be spaced at about 6.88 x 10 1 nanometers, we speculate that a phosphate group calcium atom bond materially reduces hydroxyapatite dissolution. For the purpose of in vivo testing, the following test procedure for determining the effect of casein and whey protein on caries incidence in the Sprague Dawley rat. Forty five, weanling, male Sprague Dawley rats, 18 days old, bred from animals fed a fluoride free diet were used. The rats were marked for identification and then randomly distributed with respect to diet. They were housed in raised bottom stainless steel cages, one group of 15 per cage and fed a powdered cariogenic diet with either deionised water control , a 2 casein solution or a 2 whey protein solution The animals were weighed daily and the amounts of powdered diet and liquid consumed over a 24 h period by each group was measured. After 42 days on the diet, the animals were killed by cervical dislocation and treated as described below. Caries evaluation Fissure caries was assessed using the method of Konig, Marthaler and Muhlemann 1958 5 . The mandible was removed from each rat and placed in formol saline. The jaws were then sectioned and stained by the method of Konig The relative consumption of solid and liquid diet by the three groups of rats was tested by an analysis of variance by diet . This showed that the quanitites of both solid and liquid consumed by each group were not significantly different P 0.75 . The caries data shown in Table 4 were analysed in an analysis of variance table by diet. The animals drinking the 2 casein solution had 76.5 less carious fissures than the control animals p 0.001 , and the animals consuming the 2 whey protein solution had 40.3 less carious fissures than the control group p 0.01 . The correlation of caries incidence with the final weight of the rat was tested for the three groups. No correlation attained significance p 0.1 . Similarly, the initial and final weights showed no correlation, nor were weight gain and caries incidence correlated. Acidic proteins in the drinking water substantially reduced caries incidence of male Sprague Dawley rats, however the phosphorylated protein casein caused a greater reduction than the non phosphorylated whey proteins. This test was to determine the effect of protein on the adsorption of the bacterium Hydroxyapatite discs were prepared by pressing 150 mg of hydroxyapatite Bio Gel HTP, Biorad Laboratories for 5 min in a KBr press under a pressure of 7.7 x 10⁷ Pa 5 tons . The discs were hydrated then incubated with either various protein solutions or imidazole buffer 0.05M pH 7.0, containing 0.025 M NaCl . The adherence of ³H labelled The effect of pretreating hydroxyapatite discs with various protein solutions on the adherence of S.mutans cells is shown in Table 5. All the acidic proteins and polypeptides especially the phosphoproteins caused a reduction in bacterial adherence to hydroxyapatite. However, the basic proteins and polypeptides either had no effect or enhanced bacterial adherence to hydroxyapatite. Having regard to the successful results obtained from using the above tests Applicants have formulated various compositions in accordance with this invention as as illustrated by the Examples which follow. In preparation of a typical dentifrice within the scope of this invention, the requisite salt and salts of the selected casein are incorporated into dentifrice compositions in any suitable manner depending on whether a powder, paste or liquid preparation is to be produced. For this purpose appropriate preparations of surface active agents, binders, flavouring materials and other excipients required to achieve the required form of dentifrice are added. The invention is further illustrated by the following examples Example 9. Example 10. Toothpaste A preparation as set out in example 9 was repeated but with the addition of 2 sodium fluoride in a suitable form. Example 14. Tooth powder A preparation as set out in example 13 was made but with the addition of 1 monosodium fluorophosphate in a suitable form. Example 16. Liquid dentifrice As for example 15 but with 0.5 sodium fluoride added.