# Method of making a practice projectile.

## Abstract
A practice projectile is disclosed comprising a body 12 of aluminum die casted into a driving band 14 and at least one wear ring 16, 17 coaxial about the axis 15 of the projec tile.

## Claims
Claims 1. Practice projectile extending rearwardly along an axis from a tapered forward nose portion 11 to a generally cylindrical body portion 12 , c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n t h a t said projectile 10 consists of die castable material. 2. Projectile according to claim 1 for firing from a piece having a rifled bore, c h a r a c t e r i z e d b y a driving band 14 encircling and secured to said body portion 12 at a site spaced from said nose portion 11 . 3. Projectile according to claim 1 or 2, c h a r a c t e r i z e d b y a wear ring 16 encircling and secured to said body portion 12 near the junction thereof with said nose portion 11 . 4. Projectile according to claim 3, c h a r a c t e r i z e d b y a further ring 17 encircling and secur ed to said body portion at a site rearward of said wear ring 16 . 5. Projectile according to claim 1 or one of the following claims, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n t h a t it consists of aluminum. 6. Projectile according to the claims 2 to 4, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n t h a t the driving band 14 and the wear rings 16, 17 consist of steel. 7. Method of making a practic projectile according to claim 2 or one of the following claims, c h a r a c t e r i z e d b y inserting the driving band 14 into a mold and die casting metal into said mold. 8. Method of making a practice projectile according to claim 3 or one of the following claims, c h a r a c t e r i z e d b y inserting at least one wear ring 16, 17 into a mold and die casting metal into said mold.

## Description
Practice Projectile and Method of Making said Projectile Field of the InventionThe present invention realtes to a practice projectile according to the preamble of claim 1 and to a method of making said projectile. Background of the InventionThe training of gunners unavoidably entails target practice using the arms in question, and the cost of ammunition for this purpose is considerable. For target practice many of the refinements needed in actual projectiles, such as explosive war heads, for example, are not necessary to the training procedure.It is, therefore, the object of the present invention to provide a low cost practice projectile with the behaviour of an actual projectile. This object is achieved by the characterizing features of claim 1. Further advantageous embodiments of the projectile according to the present invention as well as of a method of making it may be taken from the dependent subclaims. Brief Summary of the InventionThe present invention comprises a target practice projectile which may be given the ballistic characteristics of an actual projectile, yet is less expensive and has minimum affect on the barrel of the firing piece.Various advantages and features of novelty which characterize the invention are pointed out with particularity in the claims annexed hereto and forming a part hereof. However, for a better understanding of the invention, its advantages, and objects attained by its use, reference should be had to the drawing which forms a further part hereof, and to the accompanying descriptive matter, in which there is illustrated and described a preferred embodiment of the invention. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING The single figure of the drawing is an axial section of a target practice projectile according to the invention. DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT A projectile according to the invention comprises a body 10 of solid aluminum including a forward nose portion 11 which tapers outwardly and rearwardly to join a generally cylindrical body portion 12 which may, for example, be of 25 millimeter caliber. A tracer cavity 13 may be provided in body portion 12 if desired. The body is provided with a driving band or ring 14 of metal chosen to cooperate with the lands in the barrel of a firing piece to give the projectile the spin about its axis 15 necessary for proper performance suitable metal for ring 14 is 1008 or 1010 steel. Also provided is a wear ring 16 of ordinary 1014 or 1018 steel positioned near the front of the body portion to protect the firing barrel from the aluminum build up which otherwise ensues when projectiles of this metal are fired.If necessary, a further ring 17 may be provided and located along the axis to give the round the desired mass and ballistic performance. The projectile is best manufactured by die casting the aluminum into a previously prepared driving band positioned in a suitable mold, and rings 16 and 17 may conveniently be applied in the same fashion. The band and rings are preferably finished internally by broaching, to provide a surface giving good adhesion with the aluminum. The result is a relatively inexpensive projectile which may be used for target practice, since it can be given the same ballistic characteristics and tracer capability as an actual projectile, and yet which does not adversely affect the barrel of a piece through which it is fired. Numerous characteristics and advantages of the invention have been set forth in the foregoing description, together with details of the structure and function of the invention, and the novel features thereof are pointed out in the appended claims. The disclosure, however, is illustrative only, and changes may be made in detail, especially in matters of shape, size and arrangement of parts, within the principle of the invention, to the full extent indicated by the broad general meaning of the terms in which the appended claims are expressed.