# Spool for sewing thread.

## Abstract
A spool for sewing thread comprises flanged end pieces 1, 5 , made of plastics material, and either a single sleeve 2 , or inner and outer sleeves 2, 3 made of paper material. Each of the flanged end pieces 1, 5 has a tubular portion 7, 7 which is fitted to the ends of the paper sleeves 2, 3 . Where inner and outer sleeves 2, 3 are used, the end of the inner sleeve 2 is received by the tubular portion 7 , and the tubular portion 7 is inserted into the end of the outer sleeve 3 . The use of an inner sleeve 2 prevents excessive play when the spool is fitted to a spool pin 14 of a sewing machine. Thread holding means are also provided in the form of a loose ring 4 which fits around a tubular portion 7 of one of the end pieces 5 . A side face 8 of the flange portion 6 , opposite the ring 4 , is inclined so as to define therewith a wedge shaped peripheral recess for holding the free end 13 the thread.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A spool for a sewing thread comprising first and second end pieces made of plastics material and inner and outer sleeves made of paper material, each end piece having a flange portion and a tubular portion, the flange portion having an aperture which is coaxial with the tubular portion, the aperture being defined by a rim which extends radially inwardly of the tubular portion to provide an end stop for the inner sleeve when inserted into the tubular portion, the tubular portion being dimensioned for insertion into the respective end of the outer sleeve. 2. A spool according to claim 1 wherein the rim is concave towards the end of the inner sleeve to assist in centering the inner sleeve with respect to the aperture in the flange portion. 3. A s pool according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the inner sleeve is a loose fit in the tubular portion of each end piece, and in which the outer sleeve is adhesively attached to the outer surface of the tubular portions. 4. A spool for sewing thread comprising first and second end pieces which are spaced by a sleeve, the end pieces each including a flange portion and a tubular portion, the tubular portion being inserted into the respective end of the sleeve the spool further including a ring 5 which is positioned on the tubular portion of one of the end pieces and which is located between the associated flange portion and the end of the sleeve. 5. A spool according to claim 4 wherein the ring opposing face of the flange portion is inclined so that it defines, together with the ring, a wedge shaped peripheral recess. 6. A spool according to claim 4 or 5 wherein said sleeve is an outer sleeve, the spool further including an inner sleeve, the ends of the inner sleeve being received in recesses in the tubular portions of the end pieces. 7. A spool according to claim 6, wherein the recesses in the tubular portions are concave towards the respective ends of the inner sleeve to assist in centering the inner sleeve with respect to the apertures in the flange portions. 8. A spool according to claim 7 wherein the inner sleeve is a loose fit in the tubular portions, and in which the outer sleeve is adhesively attached to the outer surfaces of the tubular portions.

## Description
SPOOL FOR SEWING THREAD This invention relates to spools for sewing thread which may, for example, be constructed from both plastics material and paper. Although plastics material is convenient for making sewing thread spools, it has become increasingly expensive, due to the rising cost of oil. Moreover, where such spools include means for holding the free end of the thread which means will be referred to herein as thread holding means , the thread holding means often has a complex shape and hence it is then necessary to use special moulds or tools, in an injection moulding process, to produce the spools and this further increases the cost of manufacture. It is possible, to make a spool from two different types of plastics material. For example, a relatively rigid or brittle material may be used for the manufacture of flanged end pieces which are inserted, like plugs, into a cylindrical sleeve or core which is made of relatively soft or pliable material. The use of two different types of plastics material rigid and soft helps to avoid problems of a injection moulding, and b breakage of the spool.For example, the rigid material is more suitable for precision moulding of small complex shapes, especially those which are normally required in the manufacture of thread holding means. On the other hand, the soft material is better than the rigid material for making the cylindrical core, because it yields under stress and is therefore less likely to break during the process of winding thread on the spool. With high speed winding machines, the thread is subjected to a high tension and high stresses are applied to the spool, particularly at the junction between the flanged end piece and the cylindrical core. If hard material alone were used to make the spool, for example, as an integral or one piece moulding, there is a risk of breakage at the latter mentioned junction. A core made of soft plastics material absorbs this stress and thereby resists such breakage.A cylindrical core made of the soft material also expands in order to grip the flanged end pieces when they are inserted into the respective ends of the core. Despite the advantages of the latter construction the soft plastics material is much more expensive than the rigid material and hence this would become more of a problem with the rising cost of plastics. At least one aspect of the present invention provides a solution to this problem. With regard to spools having preferred forms of thread holding means and made of plastics material, it is not a straightforward matter to substitute paper for plastics for the cylindrical core of a spool. For example, the outside diameter of the cylindrical core must be large enough to support the thread windings so that, with a given length of thread on the core, the outer diameter of the thread windings is similar to the outer diameter of the circular flanges of each end piece.This provides a neat package which is commercially attractive. However, nearly all sewing machines have a spool mounting pin which has a relatively small diameter.Although the flanged end pieces may have an aperture which isjust large enough to accept the spool pin, the internal diameter of a single paper core may be much larger and hence there would be too much freedom or clearance between the pin and the core. Usually, the spool is longer than the pin and hence the pin passes through only the lower flanged end piece. This excessive clearance can lead to twobblingtt of the spool when the thread is rapidly unwound by the machine. Thus, another problem faced by the invention is to avoid this excessive clearance whilst not increasing the cost of manufacture of the spool. According to one aspect of the invention, a spool for sewing thread comprises first and second end pieces made of plastics material and inner and outer sleeves made of paper material, each end piece having a flange portion and a tubular portion, the flange portion having an aperture which is coaxial with the tubular portion, the aperture being defined by a rim which extends radially inwardly of the tubular portion to provide an end stop for the inner sleeve when inserted into the tubular portion, the tubular portion being dimensioned for insertion into the respective end of the outer sleeve. In a spool according to the above arrangement, the ends of the inner sleeve are received by recesses in the respective tubular portions, and the tubular portions are plugged into the respective ends of the outer sleeve.The inner sleeve serves to take up the excessive clearance which may otherwise be present with a single or outer sleeve made of paper material. The internal diameter of the inner sleeve is suitably selected with regard to the external diameter of the spool pin of a sewing machine, which is generally standard, so as to prevent any wobbling or excessive play of the spool during sewing. The external diameter of the outer sleeve is suitably selected so that the outer diameter of the thread windings is generally similar to the outer diameter of the flange portions of each end piece. The rim which defines the aperture in the flange portion is preferably dished, i.e. concave towards the end of the inner sleeve, so as to assist in centering the inner sleeve with the aperture in the flange portion when the parts of the spool are assembled. The inner sleeve may be a loose fit in the tubular portion of each end piece, but the outer sleeve is preferably firmly attached to the outer surfaces of the tubular portions, for example, by adhesive. As some thread holding means have a complex shape, they can be expensive to produce. However, it is important to provide reliable means for holding the free end of the thread. This poses another problem, especially in the case of using a cylindrical core made of paper. A further aspect of the invention provides a solution to this problem, especially to avoid the use of complex moulds or tools which are normally used in the production of flanged end pieces having thread holding means. According to another aspect of the invention, a spool for sewing thread comprises first and second end pieces which are spaced by a sleeve, the end pieces each including a flange portion and a tubular portion, the tubular portion being inserted into the respective end of the sleeve the spool further including a ring which is positioned on the tubular portion of one of the end pieces and which is located between the associated flange portion and the end of the sleeve. The above arrangement defines thread holding means whereby the free end of the thread is held in a peripheral recess between the ring and the flange portion In order to assist entry of the thread into the recess and to provide a good grip between opposite faces of the flange portion and the ring, the ring opposing face of the flange portion is inclined so that it defines, together with the rinyy a wedge shaped peripheral recess.To improve the grip on the thread, the inclined face of the flange portion may include a series of resilient tongues with small protuberances thereon, the tongues being alternately spaced by sectors of the face which also have small protuberances thereon, the protuberances on the tongues being slightly radially displaced from the protuberances on the sectors therebetween. An arrangement of this type is described in our UK Patent No. 1247970. The outer peripheral edge of the ring is preferably castellated, i.e. so as to form a series of outwardly projecting protuberances, to assist in catching the free end of the thread when it is led into the thread holding recess. The two aspects of the invention mentioned above may be used in combination or they may be used separately.They may also be used to modify prior art spools where it is desirable to use paper cores and or the thread holding ring. Embodiments which illustrate the various aspects of the invention will now be described with reference to the accompanying schematic drawings, in which Fig 1 illustrates a longitudinally cross section through a spool having inner and outer sleeves made of paper and end pieces made of plastic. Fig 2 illustrates enlargement of a part of the spool shown in Fig 1, in cross section so as to illustrate the way in which the free end of the thread is help between a thread holding ring and an inclined face of a flange portion of one of the end pieces. Fig 3 shows part of a spool, in longitudinal cross section, located on a spool pin of a sewing machine, and Fig 4 illustrates a further embodiment which makes use of the thread holding ring but which does not include an inner sleeve. As shown in Fig 1, a sewing thread spool includes end pieces 1 and 5 made of plastics material, an inner sleeve 2 and an outer sleeve 3 both made of paper material, and a thread holding ring 4 made of plastics material. The end pieces 1, 5 are made of plastics material and they may have an identical construction. One advantage of using identical end pieces is that special tooling is not required, in an injection moulding process, to produce a specially shaped end piece having thread holding means.However, the end piece 5 is preferably provided with resilient tongues not shown which carry protuberance s not shown , the tongues being spaced by sectors which also have protuberances, as described in UK PatentNo. 1247970. These tongues and protuberances improve the grip on the free end of the thread. Each end piece 1,5 has a flange portion 6 and a tubular portion 7.The flange portion 6 has an inclined side face 8 seen in detail in Fig 2 which is part of a conical section 9.The conical section 9 is integral with a circular rim portion 10, which projects radially inwardly and which defines a circular aperture 11 passing through the end piece. The end of each tubular portion 7 is thus partly closed by a rim portio n 10. The rim portion 10 thereby acts as an end stop for the inner sleeve 2 when the end pieces 1, 5 are fitted onto the ends of the sleeves 2,3.The aperture 11 in each end piece is coaxial with the longitudinal axes of the sleeves 2, 3 when the spool has been assembled. A side face of the circular rim 10 is inclined to provide an annular conical section which has a centering effect on the end of the inner sleeve 2 when the end pieces 1, 5 are fitted to the sleeves 2, 3. For example, when the end pieces are fitted, the end of the inner sleeve 2 abuts the circular inclined face of the rim 1Q and it is centered by the conical recess. Each end of the outer sleeve 3 is a tight fit on the outer cylindrical surface of the respective tubular portion 7. The ends of the sleeve are secured to the tubular portions by means of adhesive On the left hand side of the spool as seen in rig 1 , the end of the outer sleeve 3 engages with the inclined face 8 of the flange portion 6 . On the right hand side of the spool, a thread holding ring 4 is held between the leading edge 12 of the outer sleeve 3 and the inclined face 8 of the flange portion 6 of end piece 5. This ring is shown on an enlarged scale in Fig 2. Referring to Fig 2, the radially innermost end of the ring 4 is engaged by the end 12 of sleeve 3 and by the radially innermost portion of the inclined face 8 of the flange portion 6. The ring 4 and face 8 thereby define a wedge shaped circular recess in which the thread is held. This is schematically illustrated by showing a cross section of the thread 13 in the drawing. The circular ring 4 is a loose fit on the cylindrical tubular portion 7 and the internal diameter of the ring is smaller than the external diameter of the inner sleeve 2. The external diameter of the ring is approximately the same as the external diameter of the flange portion 6. The outer peripheral edge of ring 4 is preferably castellated to assist in catching the free end of the thread when it is led into the thread holding recess i.e. the wedge shaped recess shown in Fig 2 . When the end pieces 1, 5 are fitted to the ends of sleeves 2,3,the apertures 11, 11 in the end pieces and the hole through the inner sleeve 2 are aligned and these apertures arethencoaxial withthe sleeve 2,3. The internal diameter of the inner sleeve 2 is selected with regard to the external diameter of a spool mounting pin on a sewing machine so as to prevent excessive play during sewing. This is schematically illustrated in Fig 3, which shows a cross section through the spool when fitted onto a spool pin 14.There is some clearance 15 between the inner cylindrical surface of the inner sleeve 2 and the outer surface of the spool pin 15, but this is just provided to facilitate unwinding of the spool and it prevents excessive tilting of the spool on the spool pin. As shown in the drawing, the spool is shown in a slightly tilted position to illustrate the small amount of play which is available. It can also be seen that the pin 15 does not normally pass through both of the aligned apertures 8, 8 . The outer sleeve 3 is spaced from the inner sleeve 2 by an annular space 16.This space would lead to excessive wobbling of the spool on the pin 14, if the inner sleeve 2 were not present.The external diameter of the outer sleeve 3 is selected with regard to a predetermined length of thread to be wound on the spool, whereby the diameter of the thread windings 17 is approximately the same as the diameterof the flange portions 6 6 of each end piece. This provides a neat package which is commercially attractive. Thus, use of the inner sleeve 2 overcomes a problem of what to do with the space between the sewing machine spool pin and the inner surface of the outer sleeve 3 where there is a marked difference between the diameters of the outer sleeve 3 and the spool pin. 15. Fig 4 illustrates a longitudinal section of a spool according to another embodiment. The only significant difference is that the tubular portions 77 7t of each end piece 1, 5 are apertured with regard to the diameter of a spool pin on a sewing machine. This is possible where either the spool is of smaller dimensions or where more thread is wound on the spool. Hence, there is no need for an inner sleeve. In this case, there is no need to take up an annular space between the sleeve and the spool pin of the sewing machine. The outer diameter of the single sleeve is suitably selected so that the external diameter of the thread windings is approximately the same as the diameter of the flange portions. Since the end pieces 1, 5 and the ring 4 are of relatively simple construction and are independent of one another, this advantageously assists in their manufacture, e.g. by an injection moulding process