# Continuous fermentation apparatus and process.

## Abstract
A continuous fermentation apparatus characterised in that it comprises A an immobilized microbe reactor 16 having an inlet 14 and an outlet 18 B a nutrient supply means 22 C a first means 12 for supplying feed to the said inlet D a second means 20 connecting the said outlet to the said nutrient supply means E a third means 24 connecting the said nutrient supply means to the said inlet and having a flow regu lation means 26 suitable for recycling through the said reactor a portion of the effluent therefrom at a recycle ratio of at least 2 1 and F a fourth means 28 for withdrawing from the said continuous fermentation apparatus that portion of effluent from the said reactor which is not recycled through the said reactor, which fourth means is located at any point in the said continous fermentation apparatus between and including the said outlet and the said flow regulation means of the said third means is disclosed. A continuous fermentation process characterised in that is comprises A continuously passing a feed through an immo bilized microbe reactor B continuously adding at least one productivity limiting nutrient to at least a portion of the effluent from the said reactor C continuously recycling at least a portion of the nutrient enriched effluent from B through the said reactor at a recycle ratio of at least 2 1, with the proviso that the volume ratio of effluent from the said reactor to recycled effluent is greater than unity and D continuously withdrawing for disposal or further processing that portion of effluent from the said reactor which is not recycled is also described. The present invention constituted an improvement over the prior art,

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A continuous fermentation apparatus characterised in that it comprises A an immobilized microbe reactor having an inlet and an outlet B a nutrient supply means C a first means for supplying feed to the said inlet D a second means connecting the said outlet to the said nutrient supply means CE a third means connecting the said nutrient supply means to the said inlet and having a flow regulation means suitable for recycling through the said reactor a portion of the effluent therefrom at a recycle ratio of at least 2 1 and CF a fourth means for withdrawing from the said continuous fermentation apparatus that portion of effluent from the said reactor which is not recycled through the said reactor, which fourth means is located at any point in the said continuous fermentation apparatus between and including the said outlet and the said flow regulation means of the said third means. 2. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the said fourth means is fitted to the said nutrient supply means. 3. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the said fourth means is fitted to the said second means. 4. An apparatus as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3 wherein the nutrient supply means comprises a chamber for contacting a liquid with a gas. 5. An apparatus as claimed in claim 4 wherein the nutrient supply means comprises an aeration chamber. 6. A continuous fermentation process characterised in that it comprises A continuoushy passing a feed through an immobilized microbe reactor B continuously adding at least one productivitylimiting nutrient to at least a portion of the effluent from the said reactor C continuously recycling at least a portion of the nutrient enriched effluent from B through the said reactor at a recycle ratio of at least 2 1, with the proviso that the volume ratio of effluent from the said reactor to recycled effluent is greater than unity and D continuously withdrawing for disposal or further processing that portion of effluent from the said reactor which is not recycled. 7. A process as claimed in claim 6 wherein the said at least one productivity limiting nutrient is a gas which is sparingly soluble in the feed. 8. A process as claimed in claim 7 wherein the said gas is oxygen. 9. A process as claimed in claim 8 wherein the said oxygen is in the form of a free oxygen containing gas. 10. A process as claimed in claim 9 wherein the said free oxygen containing gas is air.

## Description
Continuous fermentation apparatus and process This invention relates to a continuous fermentation apparatus and process. Fermentation is the conversion of organic compounds to biomass andtor other organic compounds by living cells. In the past, the microbes used in a fermentation process have been mixed into the liquid medium within the fermentation tank. Apparatus in which fermentation may be conducted on both a batch and a continuous basis are known. An example is the Bioflow fermenter produced by New Brunswick Scientific Company Edison, New Jersey,U.S.A. . In this apparatus, the fermenter tank is filled with sterile nutrient medium or broth. The fermenter contents then are inoculated with the desired microorganism for the particular fermentation. The microorganisms are typically prepared by culturing in, for example, an Erlenmeyer flask outside of the fermenter apparatus. The resulting inoculum is then transferred to the fermenter tank containing nutrient medium. Such tank then is ready for batch fermentation. Continuous operation of a fermenter apparatus involves the inoculation of a fermenter tank containing nutrient broth, as described above. The microorganisms so inoculated are permitted to grow within the fermenter tank until the late logarithmic phase in the microorganism growth cycle has been reached. Nutrient broth or feed is then pumped to the fermented tank at a desired flow rate. Agitatietl, ens ration in Lic ca ol aerobic fermentation, of the femmenter centents ele also mitiated.After the system within the fermenter tank eaches a steady state, output flow is begull. In recent years, attention has tuned to improving fermentation efficiencies by immobilizing the microbes on a support material or carrier within the fermenter tank. Typically, microorganisms are adsorbed on or chemically coupled to a carrier which is packed into a column in which fermentÅation is conducted. As is well known, such carriers may be organic or inorganic and encompass a broad range of materials. Over the years, various recycling embodiments of fermentation processes have been described, the most pertinent of which are summarized below. United States Patent No. 2,658,034 discloses a sewage treatment process which may involve recycling a portion of the product as an inoculum to an aeration tank, through which the raw sewage passes on its way to a biological oxdiation tank. Of particular interest are schematic Figures 2 and 3. The ratio of recycle stream to feed is apparently of the order of about 0.2. Recycling serves the dual purpose of inoculating the feed with active bacteria and giving a slight downward adjustment in feed pH. United States Patent No. 4,169,010 relates to a continuous fermentation process for the production of single cell protein in which lean ferment is recycled through an absorber in conta,ct,with oxygen containing off gases from the fermentation tank. Lean ferment is obtained upon removal of the single cell protein materials from the fermentation medium. Such recycle permits recovery of at least a portion of the oxygen contained in the off gases. United States Patent No. 3,705,082 discloses a method and apparatus for cultivating micrcorganisms wherein partially deaerated broth is recycled to the cultivation zone, thereby improving pumpira. efficiency. United States Patent No. 3,833,477 relates to aerobic fermentation of hydrocarbons by a process which involves recycling an oxygen containing gaseous mixture originally introduced as the source of oxygen to the fermentation reactor after enriching such mixture with oxygen and simultaneously removing, at least partially, at least one impurity contained in such mixture. United States Patent No. 4,032,407 discloses a tapered fluidized bed reactor. Example 1 at column 4 of this reference mentions a reactor which uses anthracite coal as the packing material for the bacteria and suggests that a portion of the waste stream from the reactor may be recycled see column 4, lines 56 to 58 . This reference is of interest for disclosing an immobilized microbe reactor. However, from theFigure, there appears to be no aeration chamber from which the waste stream is recycled to a reaction zone. Recycle of a portion of the reactor effluent apparently serves only to dilute the feed stream n cases where available oxygen becomes limiting. United States Patent No. 4,048,017 relates to a continuous fermentation apparatus in which a nutrient, such as a carbon source, is supplied in an amount which is stoichiometrically proportional to the oxygen that is supplied so that oxygen does not become the limiting nutrient in the process. United States Patent No. 4,225,430 teaches recycle in a denitrofying process employing bacteria in a packed bed for the continuous removal of excess biomass accumulation. The ratio of recycle stream to feed ranges from 2 to 200. Such recycle, however, serves only to provide a reactor velocity which is sufficient continuously to remove some of the biomass from the reactor bed particles, thereby establishing a balance between bacterial growth rate and biomass washoffw United .states Patent No. 4,009,099 discloses a process for removing ammonia nitrogen from waste water wherein waste water and oxygen are passed continuously through a fluidized bed of solid particulate carrier cultured with nitrifying microoganisms.Optionally, the effluent gases from the fluidized bed may be recycled into waste water, or the waste may be recycled to enhance greater oxygen adsorption. Figure 2, however, shows recycled effluent being admixed with waste water prior to oxygenation of the reactor influent. The recycling of selected portions of the effluent is said to serve the following purposes 1 to promote microorganism growth during seeding 2 to maintain uniform flow 3 to dilute the waste water 4 to provide more oxygen to the waste water and 5 to permit the additional removal of ammonia remaining in the effluent see column 10, lines 22 32 . There is no indication, however, that such recycle ever becomes a major portion of the reactor xnfluent. United States Patent No. 4,069,105 discloses a method and apparatus for bidlogically removing biochemical oxygen demand from waste water which are similar to the disclosure of U.S. Patent No. 4,009,099. In this case, however, selected portions of the effluent are recycled to the influent waste water after oxygenation of the waste water. The prior art is in no way suggestive of the present improved apparatus and6process. Experimental studies have shown that continuous fermentation processes maybe conducted in a significantly more efficient manner in an immobilized microbe reactor if certain technical problems are solved. For example r among such problems are those associated with bringing sufficient nutrients into contact with the microorganisms, particularly when one or more nutrients are sparingly soluble in the aqueous fermentation medium. Because readily soluble nutrients tend to be available in excess, the sparingly soluble nutrients become productivbty limiting. By way of illustration, the classic productivitylimiting nutrient in aerobic fermentation processes is oxygen. In the past, attempts have been made to overcome oxygen deficiencies, for example, by the use of trickling filter type fermenters and, in one case, by bubbling air through a fluidized bed of microbial pellets. Indeed, aeration of the fermentation tank contents is commonplace in known aerobic fermentation procedures. Nevertheless, satisfying the oxygen demand of a rapidly growing aerobic microbial cell population may be a problem with a conventional single pass reactor system. An object of the present invention is to provide an improved continuous immobilized microbe fermenter system and process characterised by an increased supply of a fermentation productivity limiting nutrient. A further object of the present invention is to improve the nutrient supply to microorganisms in a continuous immobilized microbe fermenter wherein a sparingly soluble nutrient, such as oxygen, is the productivity limiting ingredient. Accordingly, the present invention provides a continuous fermentation apparatus which comprises A. an immobilized microbe reactor having an inlet and an outlet B. a nutrient supply means C. a first means for supplying feed to the said inlet D. a second,means connecting the said outlet to the said nutrient supply means E. a third means connecting the said nutrient supply means to the said inlet and having a flow regulation means suitable for recycling through the said reactor a portion of the effluent therefrom at a recycle ratio of at least 2 1 and F. a fourth means for withdrawing from the said continuous fermentation apparatus that portion of effluent from the said reactor which is not recycled through the said reactor, which fourth means is located at any point in the said continuous fermentation apparatus between and including the said outlet and the said flow regulation means of the said third means. The present invention also provides a continuous fermentation process which comprises A. continuously passing a feed through an immobilized microbe reactor B continuously adding a productivity limiting nutrient to at least a portion of the effluent from the said reactor C. continuously recycling at least a portion of the nutrient enriched effluent from B through the said reactor at arecydle ratio of at least 2 1, with the proviso that the. volume ratio of effluent from the said reactor to recycled effluent is greater than unity and D. continuously withdrawing for disposal or further processing that portion of effluent from the said reactor which is not recycled. In certain embodiments of the present invention, the productivity limiting nutrient is a gas which is sparingly soluble in the feed. In preferred embodiments, the said nutrient is oxygen. Referring to the accompanying illustrative drawings Figure 1 is a schematictdiagram of one embodiment of a conventional single pass immobilized microbe reactor. Figure 2 is a schematic diagram of one embodiment of the continuous fermentation apparatus according to the present invention. Figure 3 is a schematic diagram of another embodiment of the continuous fermentation apparatus according to the present invention Figure 4 is a graph which shows cell generation versus time with immobilized Esherichia coli in both a continuous fermentation apparatus according to the present invention and a conventional single pass reactor. As mentioned above, the term fermentation is used herein to me an the conversion of organic compounds to biomass and or other organic compounds by living cells.In general, such cells include various cells capable of being sustained in a viable condition in an immobilized state. Thus, such cells may be microoganisms, such as algae, bacteria, blu green algae, fungi and yeasts, as well as other plant and animal cells, such as protozoa and cells obtained or derived from higher plants and animals. Such conversion may be aerobic, anaerobic or some combination thereof. The purpose of such conversion, however, is not critical to the present invention. Thus, such conversion may be directed to, for example, the cultivation of microbial or other cells the production of single cell protein the production of useful products, such as antibiotics, amino acids or carboxylic acids or waste processing, either with or without the production of useful products, such as ethanol and methane. From the above, it should be clear that the term immobilized microbe reactor is intended to include cells other than microbial cells. As used herein, then, the term microbe may be and often is used in a generic sense to encompass various cells capable of being sustained in a viable condition in an immobilized state. The term recycle ratio , referred to in more detail hereinafter, is used herein to mean the ratio of the recycle flow rate to the feed flow rate, with each flow rate being expressed as a volume per unit time. Finally, the term composite is used herein to mean the carrier with microorganisms attached or bound thereto. Turning now to the accompanying dras ings, Figure 1 is a schematic diagram of an embodiment of a conventional single pass immobilized microbe reactor. Feed is introduced into immobilized microbe reactor 6 at inlet 4 through feed supply means 2. Effluent emerges from reactor 6 at outlet 8 and is removed from the apparatus by effluent withdrawal means 10. Referring to Figure 2, which is a schematic diagram of one embodiment of a continuous fermentation apparatus according to the present invention often referred to hereinafter as the recycle apparatus , feed is introduced into immobilized microbe reactor 16 at inlet 14 through feed supply means 12. Effluent emerges from reactor 16 at outlet 18 and is. carried by connecting means 20, such as a conduit or pipe, to nutrient supply means 22, in which the effluent and a sparingly soluble productivitylimiting nutrient are. admixed to give a nutrient enriched effluent.A portion of the nitrient enriched effluent is then carried to inlet 14 by connecting means 24, such as a conduit or pipe, which has associated therewith flow regulation means 26 which is suitable for recycling the nutrient enriched effluent through reactor 16 at a recycle ratio of at least 2 1. Nutrient supply means 22 is fitted with withdrawal means 28, such,as a conduit or pipe, in order to remove from the fermentation apparatus that portion of nutrient enriched effluent which is not recycled,through reactor 16. Depending upon the nature of the productivity limiting nutrient, nutrient supply means 22 is optionally fitted with nutrient introduction means 30, such as a conduit or pipe. For example, when the productivity limiting nutrient is a gas, such as oxygen, nutrient supply means 22 is an aeration chamber having a continuous supply of air or other free oxygencontaining gas provided through nutrient introduction means 30. In the embodiment shonm in Figure 2, productitrity limiting nutrient is added to all of tho effluent from the reactor. Thus, a portion of such nutrient is in effect wasted since not all of the nutrient enriched effluent is recycled through the reactor. Consequently, a more efficient utilization of the productivity limiting nutrient involves admixing such nutrient with only that portion of effluent which is to be recycled through the reactor. Such an emobodiment, which is preferred, is shown in Figure 3. Figure 3, of course, differs from Figure 2 only in the location of withdrawal means 28. In Figure 3, withdrawal means 28 is fitted to connecting means 20, rather than to nutrient supply means 22 as shown inFigure 2. For convenience, the illustrative discussion which follows focuses primarily on the problem of providing sufficient oxygen for aerobic fermentation processes which utilize immobilized microbe reactors. It should be understood that various sparingly soluble nutrients whether gaseous, solid, or liquid may be employed in accordance with the present invention. Using oxygen in the form of an oxygen containing gas as a representative sparingly soluble nutrient, the recycling of a portion of the aerated effluent results in higher Output and higher cell concentrations within the fermenter because of greatly improved oxygen contac t with the immobilized cells for a given feed rate. Thus, in accordance with the present apparatus and process, at least a portion of the effluent from the immobilized microbe reactor is aerated in an aeration chamber. Such chamber is represented in Figures 2 and 3 as nutrient supply means 22 which is in turn fitted with a conduit or pipe through which the oxygen is introduced into the aeration chamber, i.e. nutrient introduction means 30. In the embodiment illustrated in Figure 2, all of the effluent from the reactor enters the aeration chamber where continuous aeration takes place. A portion of the aerated effluent is then recycled through the reactor at a recycle ratio of at least 2 1. The remainder of the aerated effluent, i.e. that portion of aerated effluent which is not recycled, is continuously withdrawn from the aeration chamber, e.g. via withdrawal means 28. In the embodiment illustrated in Figure 3, only a portion of the effluent from the reactor enters the aeration chamber, with the remainder of the effluent bypassing the aeration chamber. In this embodiment, all of the effluent which is aerated is recycled through the reactor. Although not illustrated, it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the aeration chamber may be fitted with a recycle means which would permit recycling excess oxygen through the aeration chamber. In general, the preparation of the immobilized microbe reactor is accomplished in accordance with well known procedures. By way of illustration, the preparation of a typical immobilized microbe reactor is as follows A culture of microorganisms, such as E. coli K12 orB. subtilis, is grown in a shake flask under aseptic conditions with agitation to allow for sufficient oxygen transfer and mixing of the microbes with nutrients. The resulting inoculum is then adsorbed on or chemically coupled to the packing material or carrier of the reactor.Sterile nutrient medium, such as a nutrient broth, is prepared by autoclaving. The sterile nutrient medium is then passed through the reactor for from three to five days. Effluent from the reactor is sampled periodically and effluent cell concentration is estimated by, for example, the viable plate count method or turbidity measurement. After attaining a steady state cell concentration within the reactor, the continuous fermentation process is started by activating the feed s upply, aeration, effluent withdrawal and recycling as described above. As indicated above, the microorganisms are typically coupled or attached to the carrier particles outside of the reactor. The resulting microbe carrier composite is then charged to the reactor prior to the start up of the continuous fermentation process. Thus, the carrier particles with which the reactor is charged are typically coated and or impregnated with the desired microbial cells. However, other procedures are known and may be used. For example, the reactor may be charged with the selected carrier particles and typical sterilization procedures carried out, such as autoclaving or chemical treatments with, for example, ethylene oxide. A suspension of the desired microbial cells in sterile nutrient medium is then continuously recirculated through the reactor for such a time and under conditions sufficient to permit the cells to attach or couple to the carrier. The nature of the reactor packing or carrier is not critical to either the apparatus or process according to the present invention. Thus, the carrier may be organic or inorganic, porous or non porous and in any desired shape or form. The carrier may be patticulate in nature, varying from a finely divided powder to a coarse granular material, or the carrier may be a continuous shaped article, such as a flat or curved sheet or pellet, or a three dimensional article, such as a rectangular or cylindrical tube or a complex monolith. As a practical matter, the carrier will most often be particulate and relatively finely divided. Examples of suitable organic carriers include polyesters, such as poly ethylene terephthalate polyamides, such as nylon 6 and nylon 6,6 polyacrylates polymethacrylates agarose and dextran gels, typically strengthened by cross linking polyolefins, such as polyethylene, polypropylene, polybutene and polybutadiene polystyrene, with or without cross linking poly vinyl chloride and poly vinylidine chloride . The more suitable inorganic carriers may be classified as siliceous or non siliceous metal oxides.Examples of siliceous carriers include glass, silica, wollastonite, bentonite and cordierite. Examples of nonsiliceous metal oxides include, alumina, spinel, apatite, nickel oxide, titania and zirconia. The preferred carriers are inorganic in nature, with siliceous materials being more preferred. Preferably, the carrier will be porous in order two provide a greater biomass per unit volume of carrier. The method of immobilization of the microbes is not critical ta the present invention. In general, the microbes may be immobilized by various known means which may vary from simple adsorption to chemical coupling. As a practical matter,howevuer , simple adsorption is preferred for reasons of convenience and economy. Particularly useful adsorption procedures are those described in U.S.Patents Nos. 4,149, 936, 4,149,937 and 4,153,510. Reactor design is also not critical, provided only that the. carrier is retained in the reator. Thus, where the carrier is particulate, a packed bed or fluidized bed configuration may be employed, depending upon the rate and direction of flow. through the reactor. The reactor may comprise a single vessel or column or a plurality of vessels or columns. In the latter case, such plurality of vessels may be arranged in series or in parallel. Thus, reactor design may be selected at will from the prior art, with modification thereof to accommodate the recycle function provided in accordance with the present invention. In addition, there are no limits on the volumes of the reactors employed in accordance with the present invention. For example,, very large reactors of 380 litre 100 U.S. gallon capacity or more may be used, as well as very small reactors, such as those having a capacity of 45 ml or less. As stated above, the recycle. ratio must be at least 2 1 although the recycle ratio employed in g ven case will depend on various factors, such as the desired cell or product concentration in the effluent, the concentrations of readily soluble nutrients in the feed, oxygen saturation levels in the effluent and feed which in turn are dependent upon, for example, temperature, pressure, feed and effluent compositions and reactor back pressures associated with flow rates through the reactor. For a particular application, one factor may be more important than others. For example, if an aerobic fermentation is to be carried out where high product concentration is important, a very high recycle ratio may be optimal.For example, if 100 times as much oxygen is required as may be dissolved in the feed stream, a recycle ratio of 99 1 may be required. Since such nutrients as carbohydrates are normally much more soluble than oxygen, it may frequently be desired to use rather high recycle ratios. Of course, the residence time required in the reactor will be dictated by the productivity rate of the immobilized microbes. However, the residence time is a function of both the feed rate and the recycle rate.That is, for a given feed rate, the residence time is inversely proportional to the recycle ratio. Thus, the optimization of the residence time will generally require a balance between the feed rate and the recycle ratio. Stated differently, the optimization of the residence time may require reducing the feed rate and recycle rate to maintain the desired recycle ratio without deviating significantly from the desired or optimum residence time. For a given fermentation process carried out in accordance with the present inventioll, some routine experimentation may be necessary to determine the most favourable process conditions. Theoretically, recycle ratios of 100 1, 00 1 or even higher may be achieved. Practically, however, it should seldom be necessary to employ resyc ratios much in excess of 100 1. In general, factors such, as the aeration chamber design, the,nature of the microbes involved, the nature of the desired product and the nature of the feed, will define what will be the upper limit for the recycle ratio in a given situation. In certain embodiments, such as those illustrated in the Example, the recycle ratio will preferably be in the range of from 30 1 to 120 1, most preferably from 35 1 to 50 l. ,The advantage of the recycle method in bringing about improved oxygen contact with the immobilized microorganisms may be seen by a consideration of the following flow rates in a continuous fermentation process.If the concentration of oxygen at saturation in a given feed material is 7 ppm and the feed rate to a conventional single pass reactor is 1 t hr, the oxygen delivery rate to the reactor is 7 mg hrt assuming that the feed has a specific gravity of 1.0. Using the same feed material and feed rate with the recycle apparatus, where the aerated effluent has an oxygen concentration of 7 ppm and the recycle rate is 9SLl hr for a recycle ratio of 9 1 , the amount of oxygen delivered to the reactor would be 70 mg hr, a ten fold increase. The type of aeration chamber is not critical to the present invention. For instance, various of the ,conventional fermenter aeration systems or spargers may be used. Also, various normally used construction materials, such as stainless steel and glass, may be employed. While aeration in the aeration chamber will generally be accomplished by saturating the effluent contained therein with air, a pure oxygen stream may be used, as well as mixtures of oxygen with other gases. Interestingly, it has been found that even when an amount of,oxtgen sufficient to satisfy microbial demand is provided in a conventional single pass reactor, typically by means of relatively high flow rates, the effluent still does not contain the high concentrations of microbial cells which are obtained with the recycle apparatus in accordance with the present invention. In operation, the recycle apparatus has a pool of medium, i.e. the liquid holdup, in the reactor containing suspended microbes which also contribute to cell production. An estimation of this contribution is not essential for the present purposes. In order to obtain a good estimate of the cells produced solely from the immobilized microbes, however, the contributions of cells produced due to the suspended microbes and microbes growing on the reactor wall must be allocated by estimating the fraction, , of total cells in the reactor which are immobilized on the packing material or carrier. The specific cell output from the reactor, may then be estimated by multiplying, the observed output by the fraction An estimate of requires a determination of cell loading on the carrier, i.e. the number of cells per unit weight of composite.Such a determination may be made by one or more known methods, such as the ATP extraction method, elemental analysis carbon and nitrogen, in particular and ignition analysis. The ATP extraction method is based upon the fact that the amount of adenosine triphosphate ATP contained in each bacterial cell is relatively constant. Thus, it is possible to estimate the number of immobilized cells per unit weight of composite by measuring the amount of ATP present per unit weight of composite.Briefly, the ATP contained in a known weight of composite is extra ted with dimethylsulphoxide and the amount of ATP thus extracted is measured by chemiluminescence using, for example a Dusont Model 760 Biometer E.Iw DuPont de Nemours andCompany, Wilimqton, Delaware, U.S.A . This is done by injecting an aliquot of the ATP extract into a cuvette containing a luciferein luciferase mixture. A flash of light results, the intensity of which iskmeasured and correlated with the concentration of ATP in the aliquot.The total amount of ATP extracted is then readily calculated from which the total number of cells may be estimated. The measurement of cell loading by elemental analysis is as follows The elemental composition of bacterial cells has been analysed and found to be reasonably constant. On this basis, the empirical representation of a bacterial cell is C5H7NO2. Thus, the number of cells per gram of composite, where the carrier is inorganic, may be calculated if the percent carbon or nitrogen of the composite and the weight or a single cell are known. It is understood that the percent carbon or nitrogen value is converted to a decimal in order to represent the weight in grams of carbon or nitrogen per gram of composite. For example, if the percent carbon were 1.5, the value for grams of carbon per gram of composite would be 0.015. Thus, cell loading may be calculated as follows Carbon cell loading cells g g C g composite x 1 60 g C 113 g cell mat. 1 x 1 cell.wt., g cell mat. cell Nitrogens cell loading cells g g N g composite x 1 14 g N 113 g cell mat. x 1 2 cell wit., g cell mat. cell A Perkin Elmer Norwalk, Conneticut, I .S.A Model 240Elemental Analyzer may be used for the carbon and nitrogen analyses. Nitrogen content may also be determined by the Ejeldahl method. As noted above, the elemental analysis method of estimating cell loading requires knowing the approximate weight of a single cell. For example, the cell weight, ofE. coli is about 5.6 x 10 13 g C. Lamanna, et al., BasicBacteriology, Fourth Edition, The Williams Wilkins Co.,Baltimore, 1973, p. 67 . Thus, for E. coli, equations 1 and 2 simplify to equations 3 and 4 , respectively cell loading cells g 3.36 x 1012 cells g C g C g composite 3 cell loading cells g , 1.44 x 1013 cells g N g N g composite 4 Where the carrier employed is inorganic, it is also possible to estimate cell loading by heating composite samples to 5000C for one hour and determining the percent loss in weight as a result of this ignition procedure LOI .If an estimate of the weight of a single cell is available, cell loading may be calculated as follows the LOI is converted to a decimal in order to represent the weight in grams of cell material per g of composite cell loading cells g 5 g cell mat. g composite x 1 cell wt., g cell mat. cellFor E. coli, equation 5 may be expressed as cell loading cells g 1.79 x 1012 cells g cell mat. g cell mat. g composite In calculating the value of , some combination of analytical methods for the determination of cell loading such as those described above is typically utilized. Furthermorer the measurement of effluent cell concentra tion may be used as an estimate of the suspended cell concentration in the liquidholdup volume. For convenience, the contribution of reactor wall growth is typically presumed to be negligible. Thus, the following embodiments, expressed numeric ally, illustrate the calculation of . If the reactor of a recycle apparatus containing 2.34 g of carrier produces 21.56 x 1010 cells hr and if additional estimates are as follows, the value of is calculated as shown by equation 7 Estimated bed volume 3.75 ml Estimated liquid holdup 40 ml Estimated total volume 43.75 ml Estimated cell loading 5.1 x 1010 cells g Estimated efflucent cell 8 concentration 5.33 x 10 cells mI 2.34 g x 5.1 x 1010 cells g 7 40 ml x 5.33 x 108 cellsXml 2.34 g x 5.1 x 1010 cells g 0.848 Example The feasibility of operating an immobilized microbe recycle apparatus was demonstrated using E. coli K12 as the microorganism. E. coli K12 cells were adsorbed on 18 25 mesh U.S. Standard Sieve 1.0 0.71 mm porous cordierite particles. From 20 to 25 ml of an E. coli K12 cell suspension was contacted with from 2 tc 3 g of the porous cordiertire particles for from 3 to 4 hours at ambient temperature. Portions of the resulting composite were charged to several single pass, fixed bed immobilized microbe reactors which then were operated at about 220C under different flow rates, in mach case the feed consisted of an aqueous solution of Bacto Nutrient Broth Dehydrate from Difco Laboratories. The results are summarized in Table 1 below. TABLE 1 E. COLI K12 PRODUCTTON VIA SINGLE PASS IMMOBILIZED MICROBE REACTORS Mean Estimated Cell Conc. Estimated Reactor Reactor Productivity. Flow Rate, in Effluent, Carrier Volume, 1010 ml hr. 106 cells mla Weight. g ml cells hr ml bed volume 100 21.00 0.80 1.3 0.16 1000 9.00 0.80 1.3 0.69 3882 5.76 0.63 1.0 2.24 4110 6.67 0.49 0.8 3.43 7950 4.34 0.60 1.0 3.45 aMeasurements made under steady state condit ions, typically after from l to 3 days. At a feed rate of 100 ml hr, the maximum cell concentration in the reactor effluent was determined by the viable plate count method to be 21 x 106 cells ml. At this feed rate, it was found that only 6 of the oxygen originally dissolved in the feed remained in the effluent. Increasing the feed flow rate did not improve the maximum cell concentration in the effluent. Thus, at a feed flow rate of 1.000 ml hr, the effluent cell concentration was found to be 9 x 106 cells ml with only a 50 reduction in available oxygen. Additional runs demonstrated that further increases in the feed flow rate improved reactor productivity, but resulted in decreased effluent cell concentrations.As shown in Table 1, a feed flow rate of 4,110 m1 hr resulted in an effluent cell concentration of only about 7 x 106 cells ml. On the other hand, the recycle apparatus illustrated in Figure 2 brought about significantly improved results.In a manner similar to that described for the single pass reactors E. coli K12 cells were adsorbed onto 18 25 mesh 1.0 0.71 mm porous cordierite particles and placed in a reactor. Sterile nutrient broth was againt used as feed. The recycle apparatus was then operated under varying feed flow rates and with varying amounts of composite. The data obtained are summarized in Table 2 below. It should be noted that, consistent with the data reported in Table 1, the total reactor productivities recorded in Table 2 include any contributions from suspended microbes and wall growth. For convenience and simplicity in reporting the data in Tables 1 and 2, such contributions were presumed to be minor. However, for a more rigorous analysis of the data, such contributions would be taken into account. TABLE 2 E COOL K12 PRODUCTION WITH AN IMMOBILIZED MICROBE RECYCLE REACTORMeanEffluent Feed Total ReactorCell Conc. Recycle Rate, Carrier 1010 Productivity, 1010 106 cells mla Ratio ml hr Wt., g Cells hr Cells hr ml bed volume 211 46 547 5.52 11.6 1.30 183 53 473 4.99 8.68 1.08 237 30 446 5.24 10.6 1.25 157 48 468 4.83 7.33 0.95 130 108 390 2.58 5.07 1.22 323 52 342 2.59 11.1 2.66 769 45 390 2.34 30.0 8.01 530 45 390 2.41 20.7 5.35 112 45 390 0.64 4.38 4.27 171 47 342 0.50 5.85 7.29 211 100 390 2.52 8.23 2.04 88.8 47 342 0.50 3.04 3.79 56.2 114 342 0.50 1.92 2.40 107 88 441 2.00 4.72 1.46 164 36 501 0.59 8.22 8.68 330 36 534 2.37 17.6 4.64 aMeasurements made under steady state conditions, typioally after from 1 to 3 days. As may be seen, vastly improved cell Production results from the use of an immobilized microbe recycle apparatus in accordance with the present invention.Under conditions giving comparable reactor productivities, the effluent cell concentrations for the recycle apparatus are about an order of magnitude higher. For example, with a recycle reactor containing 0.64 of carrier, the mean cell concentration was 1.12 x 108 cells ml. In contrast, even with about 0.8 g of carrier, the single pass reactor effluent mean cell concentration was at best only 2.1 x I07 cells ml Table 1 . Early, preliminary runs of both the single pass reactor and the recycle apparatus were evaluated using immobilized E. coli K12 cells for a period of about three days to determine the relationship of effluent cell concentration and time. In each case, the data not reported were plotted as the log of effluent cell concentration in cell ml versus time in hours.Such plot is illustrated in Figure 4, wherein A is the curve obtained from the recycle apparatus data and B is the curve obtained from the single pass reactor data.However, it should be noted that the data represented inFigure 4 were obtained before optimization studies had been carried out. Consequently, the steady state cell concentration of curve B is about 2.5 x 106 cells ml, a value which is about 60 of the lowest value reported in Table 1. The steady state cell concentration of curve A, however is within the range of mean effluent cell concentratiors reported in Table 2. Interestingly, recycle apparatus performance, whether measured by effluent cell concentration or reactor productivity, is clearly significantly less susceptible to operational parameters, such as feed flow rate, than is the singlepass reactor, at least for the growth of E. coli K12 cells within the ranges of variables studied.That is, even with the variations in the amounts of carrier, feed flow rates and recycle ratios reported in Table 2. the mean effluent cell concentrations and total reactor productivities for the recycle apparatus varied only by a factor of about ten or less, while reactor productivity for the single pass reactor varied by a factor of more than 20. As mentioned above, the present invention has been described primarily with respect to the growth of aerobic microorganisms. However, the prinicples described herein are applicable to analogous situations where cell growth is dependent primarily upon demand for one or more specific nutrients which cannot be supplied adequately in a batch or single pass system. For example, the use of other nutrients or components which are sparingly soluble in the feed, such as nitrogen for nitrogen fixing microbes and vitamines desired in the growth medium, such as vitamines A, D4 and E would benefit from the application of the present invention.