# Novel phenyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazoles, their preparation and pharmaceutical compositions containing them.

## Abstract
Novel phenyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazoles are anti depressants useful in the treatment of mental depression of either endogenous or reactive nature. Processes for their preparation and pharmaceutical compositions containing them are also disclosed.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A phenyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole of the formulaEMI18.1 wherein X is a hydrogen or halogen atom or a nitro, NR4R5, lower alkyl, hydroxy, lower alkoxy or trifluoromethyl group R1 is a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl, NR4R5 substituted lower alkyl or NR4R5 CO group R ls a phenyl or X substituted phenyl group, where X is as defined above is a hydrogen atom or an NR4H5 substituted alkyl, cyano,NH4 R5 CO or COOR group, where R is a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group with the proviso that R2 and R are located on the same carbon atom 4 and 5 and R and R5, which may be the same or different, are hydrogen atoms or lower alkyl groups where the term lower indicates groups having 1 to 6 carbon atoms and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts of those compounds having an acidic or basic group. 2. A compound as claimed in claim 1 wherein X is a methoxy group or a hydrogen or halogen atom, R1 is a hydrogen atom and H3 is a phenyl or 4 fluorophenyl group. 3. 6 Methoxy 3 phenyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole, 6 Chloro 3 4 fluorophenyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole, 6 Methyl 3 phenyl 1,2,3,11 tetrahxdrocarbazole, and 6 Chloro 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole. 4. A process for the preparation of a compound claimed in claim 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of a compound having an acidic or a basic group, which comprises either a condensing a phenylhydrazine of the formulaEMI19.1 with a cyclohexanone of the formulaEMI19.2 in an acidic medium at moderately elevated temperature or b cyclising the intermediary phenylhydrazone of the for mulaEMI19.3 in an acidic medium at elevated temperature wherein, in formulae II, III and IV, X, R1, R2 and R3 are as defined in claim 1 and, for the preparation of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of a compound of the formula I having an acidic or basic group, isolating sad compound as said salt. 5. A process as claimed in claim 14 wherein the reactants of the formula II and III or the phenylhydrazone of the for mula IV are heated in an acidic medium, preferably in ethanolic hydrochloric acid or in acetic acid. 6. A process as claimed in claim 4 or claim 5 wherein the phenylhydrazine of the formula II or the phenylhydrazone of the formula IV has one of the following features i Substituent X is a nitro group and this after process a or b is reduced to an unsubstituted amino group ii Substituent X is a lower alkoxy group, and this is dealkylated after the process a or b to a hydroxy group iii Substtuent R1 is a hydrogen atom and, after the process a or b , the product of the formula I wherein R1 is a hydrogen atom is N alkylated to introduce a lower alkyl or NR4R5 substltuted lower alkyl group, wherein 4 and 5 R4 and R5 are as defined in claim 1 iv Substituent R1 is a hydrogen atom and, after the process aj or b , the product of the formula I wherein R is a hydrogen atom is reacted with chlorosulfonyl inso cyanate or with a lower alkyl isocyanate, followed by alkaline hydrolysis of the 9 chlorosulfonylcarbamoyl com pound when chlorosulfonylisocyanate has been used, to yield a compound of the formula I wherein the group R is a CONH2 or CONHR4 group, wherein R4 is a lower alkyl group v Substituent R2 in the cyclohexanone of the formula III is a cyano group and, after the process a or b , the resul ting compound of the formula I wherein R2 is a cyano group is subjected to a process of hydration or hydrolysis wherein the group H2 is hydrated to a group CONH2 or hydrolysed to a group COOH vi Substituent Rê in the cyclohexanone of the formula III is a cyano group and, after the process a or b , the resul ting compound of the formula I wherein R2 is a cyano group is subjected to hydrolysis and esterification of the re sulting carboxylic acid with a lower alkanol vii Substituent Rê in the cyclohexanone of the formula III is a cyano group and, after the process a or b , the resul ting compound of the formula I wherein H is a cyano group is subjected to reduction to yield a product of the formula I wherein R2 is a group CH2NH2. 7. Pharmaceutical compositions containing, as active ingre dient, at least one compound of the formula I defined in claim 1, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of such a compound having an acidic or basic group, together with a pharmaceutical carrier or excipient. 8. Compositions as claimed in claim 7 in the form of dosage units, preferably containing from 6 to 100 mg. of active ingredient. 9. Compositions as claimed in claim 7 or 8 wherein the active ingredient is as claimed in claim 2 or claim 3. 10. A process for the preparation of a pharmaceutical composition as claimed in any of claims 7 to 9 which comprises bringing, as active ingredient, at least one compound of the formula I defined in claim 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of such a compound having an acidic or basic group, into a form suitable for therapeutic administration, preferably by admixing with a pharmaceutical carrier or excipient.

## Description
Novel phenyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazoles, their preparation and pharmaceutic.al. .c.ompo.s.it.ions. .c.ont.aining them. This invention relates to phenyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazoles, to pharmaceutical compositions containing them, and to their preparation. The novel compounds are anti depressants useful in the treatment of mental depression of either endogenous or reactive nature. According to the invention we provide phenyl 1,2,3,4 tetra hydrocarbazoles of the formulaEMI1.1 wherein X is a hydrogen or halogen atom or a nitro, NR4R5, lower alkyl, hydroxy, lower alkoxy or trifluoromethyl group R1 is a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl, NR4R5 substituted lower alkyl or NR4R5 Co group is a phenyl or X substituted phenyl group, whereX is as defined above R is a hydrogen atom or an NR4R5 substituted alkyl, cyano, NR4R5 Co or COOR group, where R is a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group with the proviso that R2 and R3 are located on the same carbon atom and R4 and R5, which may be the same or different, are hydrogen atoms or lower alkyl groups where the term lower indicates groups having 1 to 6 carbon atoms and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts of those compounds having an acidic or basic group. Lower alkyl and lower alkoxy groups may be straight or branched, e.g., n propyl and t butoxy, but preferably methyl, ethyl or methods. Halogen atoms may be fluorine, chlorine, bromine or iodine, but chlorine, fluorine and bromine are preferred. The NR R5 substituted alkyl groups may have a straight or branched alkyl chain but preferably have the formula NR R5 CH2 n wherein n is an integer from 1 to 6.The radicals R2 and R3 may be located on any one of the carbon atoms in position 1 , 2 , 3 or 4 of the 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole nucleus but are preferably located on the carbon atom in the 3 position Those compounds of the formula I that are acidic by virtue of COOH in R2 or basic by virtue of NR11R5 in X or NR R5 substituted alkyl in R1 or R2 can be isolated as the free acid or base or as salts thereof. Salts of the acidic compounds in particular include pharmaceutically acceptable salts such as their sodium, potassium, ammonium, magnesium and calcium salts.Salts of the basic compounds include their pharmaceutically acceptable salts with mineral or organic acids such as hydrochloric, hydrobromic, sulphuric, phosphoric, fumaric, maleic, citric, tartaric, succinic or adipic acid. Since the radicals R2 and R3 are different, the compounds of the formula I exist as racemates and as the resolved optically active forms, and the present invention relates to all of these. The compounds can be resolved by standard methods e.g., the compounds that form salts can be resolved by salt formation with an appropriate optically active acid or base and fractional crystallisation. The compounds of the formula I can be prepared by standard methods. In particular, the 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole nucleus can be prepared by condensation of a phenylhydrazine with a substituted cyclohexanone under standard conditions for a Fischer Indole synthesis. The invention therefore provides a process for the preparation of a compound of the formula I defined above, which comprises either a condensing a phenylhydrazine of the formulaEMI3.1 with a cyclohexanone of the formulaEMI4.1 in an acidic medium at moderately elevated temperature, or b cyclising the intermediary phenylhydrazone of the formulaEMI4.2 in an acide medium at elevated temperature. In these processes, the radicals X, R1, R2 and R3 are as defined for formula I. In process a , at least one equivalent excess of acid is preferably used, so that the intermediary phenylhydrazone of formula IV cyclises in situ to the 1,2,3,11 tetrahydrocarbazole of the formula I. If no excess of acid is used, the phenylhydrazone of formula IV can be isolated and then cyclised with excess acid to the 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole of formula I. In either process a or b , the reactants of the formula II and III or the phenylhydrazone of the formulaIV are heated in an acidic medium for an approprionate time, e.g. half an hour to 24 hours.The acid may be inorganic or organic, e.g. sulfuric, phosphoric, hydrochloric, hydrobromic, acetic or methanesulfonic acid, or a Lewis acid e.g. boron trifluoride in particular the reactions can often conveniently be carried out by heating in ethanolic hydrochloric acid or in acetic acid at reflux for about an hour. Products of the formula I that are acidic or basic can if desired be isolated as salts as hereinabove defined. The starting materials of the formulae II and III are in general well known. Any particular starting material that is not known or not immediately available can be prepared by standard methods. Although the processes described above are generally known for the preparation of 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazoles, it is sometimes more convenient not to have a desired radical R1 present in the phenylhydrazine starting material but rather introduce it after the cyclisaton. Equally it may be more convenient to use a starting material of the formula II or III wherein X or R2 differs from the X or R2 radical desired in the product of the formula I, and modify the X or R2 radical after a compound of the formula I has been prepared. Examples of such finishing steps are a Reduction of a nitro group in X to an unsubstituted amino group. The reduction can be effected under standard con ditions, preferably by means of hydrogen and a catalyst e.g. palladium on carbon in an inert organic solvent. In particular, the reduction can be effected in a lower alkanol, especially ethanol or methanol, as solvent at room tempeHature over a period of a few days. b Dealkylation of a lower alkoxy group, especially a methoxy group, in X to a hydroxy group. This reaction can be effected under standard conditions, for example with a Lewis acid, especially boron trifluoride, in an inert anhydrous organic solvent such as diethyl ether.c A 9 unsubstituted 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole of the for mula I can be N alkylated under standard conditions to introduce an alkyl or NR R5 substituted alkyl group, for example by reaction with an alkyl or NR11 R5 substituted alkyl halide e.g. bromide or chloride or other reactive ester e.g. metbanesulfohate . This reaction is preferably carried out in an inert, non hydroxylic polar solvent such as dimethylformamide in the presence of a strong non hydroxyle base such as sodium hydride or sodamide at elevated temperature e.g. 75 850C. for a half to 8 hours, preferably about 2 hours. d Similarly a 9 CONH2 or 9 CONHR group wherein R is a lower alkyl group can be introduced into a 9 unsubstituted 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole of formula I by reaction of the last named with chlorosulfonyl isocyanate or with a lower alkyl isocyanate, preferably at about room temperature, in an inert organic solvent such as an ether, and alka line hydrolysis of the resulting 9 chlorosulfonylcarbamoyl compound when chlorosulfonylisocyanate has been used. This hydrolysis can be effected by a strong alkali such as potas sium or ammonium hydroxide in an aqueous organic solvent such as aqueous acetone.e A group CN as R2 can be hydrated to CONH2 or hydrolysed to COOH. The hydration can be effected in concentrated sulfuric acid at elevated temperature e.g. about 1000C. . The hydrolysis can be effected by heating in a high boiling solvent, such as ethylene glycol, in the presence of an alkali metal hydroxide.f A group CN as R2 can also be converted into an alkoxy carbonyl group by hydrolysis according to step e and esterification of the resulting carboxylic acid, e.g. with the desired alkanol ROH and an esterifying Qr de hydrating agent such as an acid at elevated temperature.g A group CN as Rê can also be converted into a group CE2NH2 by reduction, preferably with a complex metal hydride in an ether solvent, especially with lithium aluminium hydride in tetrahydrofuran. When the substituents R2 and R3 are on the 2 or 4 carbon atom of the cyclohexanone of the formula III and when X is at the 2 or 4 position of the phenylhydrazine, only a single racemic product will be obtained. However, if the substituents R2 and R3 are on the 3 carbon atom of the cyclohexanone of the formula III, or if the substituent X is at the 3 position of the phenylhydrazine, then the product of the formula I will normally be a mixture of racemic 2 R2 2 R3 and 4 R2 4 R3 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazoles or of 5X and 7X 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazoles, which can be separated by stan dard methods such as chromatography and or fractional crystallisation. The following examples illustrate the invention EXAMPLE I 6 Methoxy 3 phenyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole To a mixture of 4 methoxy phenylhydrazine hydrochloride 50.0 g. and 4 phenylcyclohexanone 50.0 g. add 500 ml.of acetic acid and with constant stirring heat the mixture for one hour at 80 9o0C. Cool the mixture, add 200 ml. of water and filter off and dry the resulting precipitate. Recrystallize the product from metbanollwater 1 1 , m.p.114 115 . Replacement of the 4 methoxyphenylhydrazine hydrochloride in the procedure of the foregoing Example with equivalent quantities of the hydrochloride salt of the following Xsubstituted phenylhydrazines 2 ethylphenylhydrazine, h methylphenylhydrazine, 4 nitrophenylhydrazine, 4 chlorophenylhydrazìne, 4 ethoxyphenyl hydrazine, phenylhydrazine 34 dimethoxyphenyl hydrazine and 3 methoxyphenylhydraz ine yields 8 ethyl 3 phenyl 1, 23, 4 tetrahydrocarbazole, 6 methyl 3 phenyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole m.p. 98 1010C. , 6 nitro 3 phenyl l,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole m.p. 195 1960C. , 6 chloro 3 phenyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole, 6 ethoxy 3 phenyl 1 ,2,3, 11 tetrahydrocarbazole, 3 phenyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole m.p. 125 l260C. , 6,7 dimethoxy 3 phenyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole, and 5 methoxy 3 phenyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole and or 7 methoxy 3 phenyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole. Similarly replacement of the 4 phenylcyclohexanone in the procedure of the foregoing example with equivalent quantities of the following X phenyl R2 cyclohexanones 4 cyano 4 methoxyphenyl cyclohexanone, 4 cyano 4 phenyl cycloSexanone, 4 carboxy 4 phenyl cyclohexanone, 4 cyano 4 4 methylphenyl cyclohexanone 4 chlorophenyl cyclohexanone, and 4 fluorophenyl cyclohexanone, yields 3 cyano 3 11 methoxyphenyl 6 methoxy 1,2,3,11 tetrahydro carbazole, 3 cyano 3 phenyl 6 methoxy 1,2,D,4 tetrahydrocarbazole m.p. 189 l900C. , 3 carbo y 3 phenyl 6 methoxy 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole m.p. 198 1990C. , 3 cyano 3 11 methylphenyl 6 methoxy 1,2,3,11 tetrahydro carbazole 3 4 chlorophenyl 6 methoxy 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole, and 3 4 fluorophenyl 6 methoxy 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole. Similarly replacement of the 11 phenylcyclohexanone with equivalent quantities of the following X phenyl Rê cyclohexanones 4 cyano 4 methoxyphenyl cyclohexanone, 4 cyano 4 phenyl cyclohexanone, 4 carboxy 4 phenyl cyclohexanone, 4 cyano 4 4 methylphenyl cyclohexanone, 4 chlorophenyl cyclohexanone, and 11 fluorophenyl cyclohexanone, together with replacement of the li methoxy phenylhydraz ine hydrochloride with phenylhydrazine hydrochloride yields 3 cyano 3 C4 methoxyphenyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole, 3 cyano 3 phenyl 1, 2,3, 4 tetrahydrocarbazole, 3 carboxy 3 phenyl 1, 2,3, 4 tetrahydrocarbazole, 3 cyano 3 4 methylphenyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole, 3 C4 chlorophenyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole, and 3 4 fluorophenyl l,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole. The following compounds of formula I can be prepared similarly 6 chloro 3 3 fluorophenyl 12,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole m.p. 121 123 C 6 chloro 4 cyano 3 phenyl 1,2,3 ,4 tetrahydrocarbazole m.p. 196 196.5 C. , 6 chloro 3 t4 chlorophenyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole m.p. l39l400C. , 6 methOxy 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole m.p. 151 1530C. , 6 methOxy 3 phenyl 9 methyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole m.p. 93 940C. , 6 methoxy 3 4 chlorophenyl 1, 2,3, 4 tetrahydrocarbazole m.p. 92 930C. , 6 methoxy 3 11 methylphenyl 1,2,3,11 tetrahydrocarbazole m.p. 140 141 C. , and 6 chloro 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole. 6 Hydroxy 3 phenyl l,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole m.p. 76 79 0C. can be prepared from the main compound of this Example byO dealkylation e.g. with boron trifluoride in diethyl ether. EX AMPLE Il 6 Methoxy 3 aminomethyl 3 phenyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole hydrochloride. To 6 methoxy 3 cyano 3 phenyl l ,2,3 , 4 tetrahydrocarbazole 1.0 g. in tetrahydrofuran 10 ml. is added lithium aluminium hydroxide 0.4 g. and the mixture is refluxed for one hour. Then 0.1 ml. of water is cautiously added and the resulting mixture is filtered. The filtrate is evaporated to dryness, the residue dissolved in methylene chloride and then ethereal hydrogen chloride is added to precipitate the desired compound, m.p. 175 178 0C. EXAMPLE III 3 phenyl 6 methoxy 9 cartamoyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole Chlorosulfonyl isocyanate 2.8 g. in ether 10 ml. is slowly added to a cold solution 0 100C. of 3 phenyl 6 methoxy 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole 5.5 g. in ether 50 ml. and the resulting solution is stirred at room temperature for two and a half hours, and then evaporated to dryness. A 1 7 mixture of water and acetone 80 ml. is added to the residue followed by 10 NH4OH 50 ml. and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for half an hour. The solid obtained thereby is recrystallized from ethyl acetate to yield the desired product, m.p. 188 1890C. EXAMPLE IV 6 Methoxy 5 carboxy 3 phenyI 1,2,3,4 tetraBydrocarbazole A mixture of 6 methoxy 3 cyano 3 phenyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro carbazole 48.Q g. and potassium hydroxide 60.0 g. in ethylene glycol 300 ml. is heated at 170 C, for 16 hours and then cooled. To the cooled solution dilute hydrochloric acid is added to brlng the mixture to pH 8. The resulting precipitate is recrystallized from acetonitrile to give the desired compound, m.p. 198 199 C. 6 Chloro 3 carboxy 3 phenyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole m.p. 227 228 C.. can be prepared similarly from 6 chloro 3 cyano 3 phenyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole. 6 Nethoxy 3 ethoxycarbonyl 3 phenyl 1 2,3,4 tetrahydro carbazole m.p. 137 1380C. can be prepared by esterification of the compound of this Example under standard conditions. EXAMPLE V 6 MethOxy 3 phenyl 9 3 dimethylaminopropyl 1,2,3,4 tetra hydrocarbazole hydrochloride A mixture of 6 methoxy 3 phenyl l ,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole 5.5 g. and 50 sodium hydride 1.0 g. in dimethylformamide 30 ml. is heated at 1000C. for one hour and a half and then 3 dimethylaminopropyl chloride 2.5 g. is added. The mixture is heated at 800C. for two hours and then cooled, and water 40 ml. is added. The solid which precipitates is recrystallized from methylene chloride ether 1 1 its hydrochloride melts at 90 980C. 6 MethOxy 3 phenyl 3 ethoxycarbonyl 9 3 dimethylamino propyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahy drocarbazdle hydrochloride m.p.90 950C. and 6 chloro 3 4 chlorophenyl 9 3 dimethylamino propyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole hydrochloride m.p. 247 2490C. can be prepared similarly. 6 MethDxy 3 phenyl 9 methyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole m.p. 93 94 0C. can be prepared by similar N methylation. EXAMPLE VI 6 Chloro 3 carbamoyl 3 phenyl 1, 2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole 6 Chloro 3 cyano 3 phenyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole 10 g. was heated in concentrated sulfuric acid 30 ml. at 90 1000C. for one hour and a half. The solution was cooled and poured into ice water and the precipitate was filtered off, washed with water and dried. The product was recrystallised from methylene chloride m.p 140 1420C. EXAMPLE VII 6 Amino 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole 6 Nitro 3 4 methoayphenyl 1,2,3,4 tebrahydrocarbazole 2 g. in ethanol 100 ml. was hydrogenated by means of palladium on carbon 300 mg. for 3 days at room temperature.The catalyst was then filtered off and washed with a little ethanol, the filtrate and washings were evaporated, and the residue recrystallized aq. ethanol m.p. 202 2040C. dec. . As stated above, the compounds of formula I are antidepressants useful in the treatment of mental depression of either endogenous or reactive nature. The anti depressant activity of the compounds of formulaI may be ascertained by standard biological tests e.g., the rat muricide test . Compounds of formula I are tested not only for their absolute activity but also by comparison with such well known standards as amitriptyline and imipramine.These tests show that the compounds of the formula I exert their ant depress ant activity in the treatment of mental depression in humans at dosage levels of about 0.5 to 6 mg. kg.per day, preferably in 3 4 divided doses. Preferably the compounds of this invention are administered in amounts of 25 300 mg. per day in 3 4 divided doses, i.e. in dosage units of 6 to 100 mg. Other tests indicate that the compounds of formula I in general should have a relatively fast onset of action and should exert low or very low anticholinergic side effects, when compared to such standards as imipramine or amitriptyline. The invention therefore provides pharmaceutical compositions containing, as active ingredient, at least one compound of the formula I, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of such a compound having an acidic or basic group, together with a pharmaceutical carrier or excipient. Such compositions can be prepared by bringing the active ingredient into a form suitable for therapeutic administration, in particular by admixing with a pharmaceutical carrier or excipient.For use as anti depressants the compounds of the formula I may thus be formulated by techniques well known in the art as standard pharmaceutical compositions suitable for oral, rectal or parenteral administration, for example tablets, capsules, aqueous or oily suspensions or solutions, emulsions, powders or suppositories. Suitable adjuvants such as calcium carbonate, starch, lactose, talc, magnesium stearate and gum acacia can advantageously be used. Preferred compounds of formula I on account of their favourable properties are those wherein R1 is hydrogen, X preferably in the 6 position is hydrogen, methyl, halogen especially chlorine or methoxy, R preferably in the 3 position is phenyl, or halo or alkoxy substituted phenyl especially 4 fluorophenyl , and R2 is hydrogen.Specific preferred compounds include 6 methoxy 3 phenyl 1 ,2,3, 4 tetrahydrocarbazole, 6 chloro 3 4 fluorophenyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole, 6 methyl 3 phenyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole, and 6 chloro 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrocarbazole. In the following discussions of specific tests, the test compound of formula I hereinafter simply referred to as test compound is 6 methoxy 3 phenyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro carbazole. In the rat muricide test based on the method of Horovitz et al., Int. J. Neuropharmacol., 5 405 411 1966 , the following comparative ED50 values were obtained on intraperitoneal administration Compound ED50 mg. kg. Test compound 1.7 Imipramine 6.4 Amitriptyline 5.2 This dosage level is significantly lower than those that cause changes in behaviour, in neurologic function or in autonomic function, in particular decreased spontaneous motor activity and decreased tail elevation. Such changes occur at dosage levels of about 100 1000 mg. kg i.p. , about 50xED50 to 500xED50. In contrast, imipramine caused mydriasis and decreases in spontaneous motor activity, in muscle tone and in tail elevation at 30 mg. kg i.p. , only about 5xED50. Thus, in this test the test compound shows a high therapeutic ratio. The test compound and imipramine, both of which are active in ameliorating abnormal behaviour of beagles at 10 mg. kg. po, were evaluated also for effects on behaviour, neurologic and autonomic function in beagles with normal behaviour. The test compound at 30 and 60 mg. kg. po and imipramine at 10 and 30 mg.lkg. po were administered to separate groups each of four dogs. All animals were then evaluated for up to 6 hours for changes in behaviour, neurologic or autonomic function according to a modification of the method ofIrwin Drug screening and evaluation of new drugs in ani malts, pp. 36 56 in Animal and Clinical Pharmacologic Tech nines in Drug Evaluation, Editors J.M. Nodine and P.E. Seigler, Chicago, Yearbook Medical Publisher Inc., 1964. The test compound did not affect behaviour, neurologic or autonomic function of beagles at doses up to 60 mg. kg.po this dose is 6 times the MED 10 mg. kg. po for improvement of abnormal behaviour in beagles. In contrast, imipramine caused tremors and mydriasis at its MED in abnormal dogs 10 mg. kg. po , and decreased motor activity and passivity at only three times its MED 30 mg. kg. po . Thus, the margin between doses producing improvement and those causing side effects in this species is greater with the test compound than with imipramine.