# Furano chromone derivatives.

## Abstract
The invention relates to new furano chromone deriva tives of the general formula

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Furano chromone compounds of the general formulaEMI8.1 wherein R represents C1 C6 alkoxy, hydroxyl or W di C1 C6 alkyl amino C1 C6 alkoxy, Represents hydrogen or C1 c6 alkoxy and Represents hydrogen, C1 C6 alkyl, phenyl or R4 phenyl, wherein R is halogen, C1 C6 alkoxy or trifluoromethyl. 1 2 2. Compound according to claim 1, inwhich R and R2 are both methoxy and R is hydrogen. 3. Compound according to claim 1, inwhich R1 and R2 are both methoxy and R3 is phenyl. 4. Process for the preparation of a compound indicated in claim 1, characterised in that the compound is prepared in a manner in actual use or described for the preparation of analogous compounds. 5. Process according to claim 4, characterised in that a compound of the general formulaEMI9.1 in which R1, R2 and R3 have the meanings assigned in claim 1, is reacted with hydroxylamine or an acid addition salt thereof. 6. Pharmaceutical composition containing a compound as claimed in claim 1 as the active constituent in admixture with one or more usual pharmaceutical carriers or diluents.

## Description
FURANO CHROMONE DERIVATIVES The invention relates to new furano chromone derivatives, to processes for their preparation and to pharmaceutical preparations containing same. More particularly the invention relates to furanochromone compounds of the general formula I EMI1.1 wherein R1 denotes C1 C6 alkoxy, hydroxyl or M di C1 C6 alkyl amino Cl C6 alkoxy, R2 represents hydrogen or C1 C6 alkoxy and R3 hydrogen, C1 C6 alkyl, phenyl or R phenyl, wherein R denotes halogen, C1 C6 alkoxy or trifluoromethyl. Where a C1 C6 alkyl radical occurs in one of the radicals R to R , this alkyl radical can be, for example, methyl, ethyl, n propyl, isopropyl, n butyl, isobutyl, t butyl, n pentyl, isoamyl or n hexyl. C1 C4 radicals, in particular methyl and ethyl, are preferred. 4 The substituent R can be in the o , p , or m position whereby the p position is preferred. If R4 represents halogen, this is chlorine, fluorine or bromine, preferably chlorine or fluorine. The compounds of formula I may be prepared by reacting a compound of formula II EMI2.1 inwhich R1, R2 and R3 have the meanings indicated above, with hydroxylamine or an acid addition salt thereof. This reaction is preferably carried out at a temperature above about 400C. The hydroxylamine is usually employed as a salt, which is dissolved e.g. in formic acid and sodium acetate or in alkalimetalhydroxyde or pyridine. The starting compound of formula II can be prepared at various manners.The flow sheet on the next page shows some manners for the preparation of the starting compounds of formula II. The compounds of formula III see flow sheet can be obtained by hydrolysis of khellin or visnagin or of derivatives thereof. The compounds of the general formula IV are obtained from compounds of the general formula III by reaction with the appropriate acidchlorides or anhydrides in the presence of a base. The reaction V II is preferably carried out at temperatures below 400C, in particular below 300C. The reaction is usually carried out in the presence of solvents, such as aromatic hydrocarbons or halogenohydrocarbons. The preparation of compounds according to the Flow sheetEMI3.1 In the formulae, R5 denotes methoxy, ethoxy or i propoxy. invention in which R3 denotes hydrogen can in addition be carried out in accordance with the reaction III IIa. A temperature below 50 C is preferably used for this reaction III IIa . An excess of dimethylformamide is used as the solvent. The reaction with dimethylformamide is followed by hydrolysis using e.g. a mixture of ice and water. The compounds according to the invention have, above all, analgesic, anti inflammatory, anti thrombotic and blood platelet aggregation inhibiting properties. The compounds according to the invention can be processed to the customary liquid or solid pharmaceutical preparations, for example to dragees, tablets, pills, suppositories and solutions, also for injection. The customary excipients, carriers and diluents and the usual procedures for the preparation of these pharmaceutical preparations are used. The usual individual dose is 2 to 20 mg kg orally and 0.5 to 5 mg kg intravenously, and the customary daily doses are generally three times these individual doses mentioned. Particularly preferred compounds according to the invention are compounds of formula I, inwhich RÚ and Rê are both alkoxy with 1 4 carbon atoms and especially methoxy, and inwhich R3 preferably represents hydrogen or phenyl. Example 1 3 Cyano 5 ,9 dimethoxy furo r ,2 q 1 A2 chromen 4 one a. 3 Pormyl 5 9 dimethoxy furo 3 , 2 gi A2 chromen 4 one 122.8 g 0.8 mol of POC13 are added dropwise to a solution of 47.23 g 0.2 mol of khellinone in 750 ml of dimethylformamide such that the temperature of the reaction solution does not exceed 400C. After a further 250 ml of dimethylformamide have been added, the mixture is stirred for another hour at an internal temperature of at the most 450C. After the reaction mixture has been cooled to room temperature, it is hydrolysed in ice water. The yellowish precipitate is filtered off with suction and recrystallised from acetonitrile yield after recrystallising once 88 melting point 206 207 C. b. 3 Cyano 5 , 9 dimethoxy furo 3, 2 i A2 chromen 4 one A solution of 18.2 g 0.26 mol of NH20H.HC1 and 13.6 g 0.2 mol of sodium formate in 150 ml of formic acid is added to a solution of 27.42 g 0.1 mol of 3 formyl 5 , 9 dimethoxy furo 3, 2 g ê chromen 4 one in 200 ml of acetic acid and the mixture is stirred at 500C for 4 hours. After the mixture has been cooled to room temperature, it is poured on to ice water and left to stand overnight. The precipitate is filtered off with suction and warmed to 700C in 1000 ml of 10 strength KOH solution C2H50H H20 1 1 for 2 hours. After the mixture has been cooled to room temperature, it is acidified with dilute hydrochloric acid.The precipitate is recrystallised from acetonitrile yield after recrystallising twice 54.4 dark brown crystals of melting point 245 2470C. Example 2 3 Cyano 2 phenyl 5,9 dimethoxe furo r 3,2 ql A2chromen 4 one a. 3 Benzoyl 2 norkhellin A solution of 0.01 mol of 5 benzoylacetyl 4,7 dimethoxy 6 hydroxy benzofuran in 15 ml of absolute CHIC13 is added drop wise to 0.02 mol of dimethylamino formamideacetal at room temperature. When the reaction has ended about 30 minutes , the mixture is evaporated to dryness in vacuo, the residu is triturated to a paste, using silica gel and xylene acetone 8 2 as the eluting agent, and the paste is introduced on to a silica gel column 0.55 mm . The column is eluted with xylene acetone 8 2 , the eluate is evaporated to dryness in vacuo and the residue is recrystallised twice from n butanol yielding orangecoloured crystals of melting point 178 1790C yield 43 .b. 3 Cyano 2 phenyl 5,9 dimethoxy furo C3,2a2 chromen 4 one 1.05 g of the 3 benzoyl 2 norkhellin obtained are dissolved in 100 ml of 10 strength KOH, with warming, and 0.42 g of NH2OH.HCl are added The reaction mixture is stirred for 4 hours. It is then poured into 150 rnl of 10 strength HC1 and the precipitate is filtered off with suction. This precipitate is heated at 900C in 50 ml of 10 strength KOH E tOH H20 1 1 for 30 minutes. After the mixture has been cooled to room temperature, it is acidified and the precipitate is recrystallised from isopropanol yellow orange coloured crystals of melting point 213 2140C are obtained. Yield 20 . Example 3 In a manner corresponding to Example 2 are prepared 3 Cyano 2 methyl 5,9 dimethoxy furo 3, 2 g ê chromen 4 one 3 Cyano 2 phenyl 5 methoxy furo 3,2 g ê chromen 4 one 3 Cyano 2 phenyl 5 hydroxy furo 3,2 gl chromen 4 one, 3 Cyano 2 4 chloro phenyl 5,9 dimethoxy furo 3,2 g ê chromen 4 one.