# An apparatus and a method for uniformly moving an electric cable and a measuring unit connected thereto in the interior of a tubing circuit section.

## Abstract
There is disclosed a method and apparatus for uniformly transferring an electric cable together with a measuring device connected thereto, through a tubing circuit included for instance in a steam generator. The apparatus comprises a plurality of support units each adapted for coaxially suppor ting the cable in the tubing circuit. Each unit includes two coaxially disposed deformable sealing ridges which act axially spaced relative to each other. When unilateral pressure is applied to the support units, they are moved through the tubing circuit together with the cable and measuring device. Due to the applied pressure, the front ridge of each one of said support units is deformed in such a manner that its circumferential portion is brought in spaced relation relative to the inner wall of the tubing circuit, thereby assuring an unimpeded progress of the respective support unit and cable attached thereto.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A movable supporting element serving for advancing a cable and or holder attached thereto in the interior of a tube or tubing circuit section, characterized by a set of coaxially and axially spaced apart sealing ridges made of resiliently deformable material, which are dimensioned in such a way that even in deformed conditiontheymovably fit in the respective tube in liquid tight sealing relationship, while a thrust acting both in the one axial direction and in the opposite axial direction can be taken up and converted into a movement of the cable and or holder connected thereto in a direction defined by the direction of the respective thrust and control means which, in response to a control pressure exerted thereon, effect that the outer circumference of that of the sealing ridges which is the leading one with the required direction of advance, is reduced in such a way that an unimpeded progress of the movable supporting element is ensured. 2. A movable supporting element according to claim 1, characterized by a substantially cylindrical slide which is slidable with respect to the sealing ridges in both axial directions, as well as being responsive both to a pressure acting in the one and in the other axial direction, both as thrust, and as control pressure. 3. A movable supporting element according to claim 1, characterized in that the sealing ridges extend about a housing provided with a first axially extensible pressure chamber, which is in communication with a first control pressure pipe,and a second pressure chamber shifted axially relative to the first pressure chamber and insulated therefrom, which is extensible in an axial direction opposite to the first mentioned axial direction, as well as being in communication with a second control pressure pipe insulated from the first pipe. 4. A movable supporting section composed of two movable supportingelements according to any one of claims 1 3, said movable supporting elements being interconnected by a coaxial hollow tube of flexible material. 5. A movable supporting section according to claim 4, characterized in that the hollow tube is provided with one or more substantially spherical thickenings. 6. An electric cable attached to various specimens of a movable supporting section as described in any one of claims 4 or 5. 7. An electric cable according to claim 6,characterized in that the length of a movable supporting section each time is about 20 50 times smaller than the length of the cable present between successive movable supporting sections. 8. A method of advancing a cable as defined in any one of claim 6 or 7 in a tubing circuit section, characterized in that between the successive moving supporting elements liquid columns are built up and from one end of the tubing circuit section a thrust is exerted on the assembly contained therein of movable supporting elements, liquid columns and cable. 9. A method of advancing a cable as defined in any one of claim 6 or 7, in a tubing circuit section of a tube assembly comprising an accessible. collecting head being in communication with various tubing circuits connected thereto in parallel relationship, while the following steps are carried out a the said cable is applied in its entirety in a pressure chamber being in communication with a tubing circuit section to be inspected b the said pressure chamber, the collecting head, as well as the tubing assembly are entirely filled with a liquid c a thrust is exerted on the liquid present in the pressure chamber, while the liquid forced out of said pressure chamber is conducted via a separate circuit to the tubing circuit section to be inspected and simultaneously with step c d the interior of the collecting head, in so far it is external relative to the said separate circuit, is brought in communication with a liquid discharge. 10. A method of removing a cable as defined in any one of claims 6 or 7, which, through application of the method according to claim 8, has been introduced in a tubing circuit section to be inspected from such a tubing circuit section, while the following steps are carried out a the thrust exerted on the liquid present in said pressure chamber is removed b said pressure chamber is brought in communication with a liquid discharge and c thrust is exerted on the liquid present in the collecting head in so far this is present outside the said separate circuit. 11. An apparatus for applying the method according to any one of claims 9 or 10, characterized by a first pressure vessel having a cable drum mounted therein for rotation, a guide tube being in communication with the interior of the pressure vessel, the free end of said tube being provided with a hydraulic clutch through which said guide tube can be connected to the tubing circuit section to be inspected and terminating in the collecting head and a second presure vessel being in communication with the interior of the collecting head.

## Description
An apparatus and a method for uniformly moving an electric cable and a measuring unit connected thereto in the interior of a tubing circuit section. The invention relates to an apparatus and a method for moving an electric cable and a measuring unit connected thereto uniformly in a tubing circuit section of a tubing assembly. Mostly, it is necessary to inspect a tubing circuit section of a tubing assembly of e.g. steam generators or heat exchangers. To this effect it is required that a measuring unit and an electric cable electrically connected thereto are advanced with an optimally defined movement uniformly through the interior of the tubing circuit section to be inspected.The construction of the tubing assembly to be thus inspected mostly requires that the measuring unit cable should be capable of being conducted from one and the same position in and out of the tubing circuit section to be inspected. In other words, it should be possible from such a position to advance tht measuring unit cable in the one or in the other direction through the respective tubing circuit section.Allowance should be made in this respect for the fact that a tubing circuit section to be inspected does not extend exclusively in a straight direction in practice. As a rule, it concerns tubes that are bent in different manners, for instance helically wound tubes, tube sections bent in U shape and other bent forms. In case of strongly bent forms or of helically wound tubes,the advancing movement will become irregular and even may be discontinued due to the contact of the cable against the interior tubing surface. By retracting the cable, this will become stuck, which may result in that the measuring unit cable becomescompletely immovable. In general it applies that numerous unevennesses occur on the interior surface of a piping circuit section to be inspected, e.g. inplaceswhere weld connections have been made. As a result of such unevennesses, the advance of the measuring unit cable can be impeded it may occur that as a result the measuring unit cable becomes immovable and can no longer be advanced in either direction. It is the object. of the invention to provide an effective and practical solution for the above described problems. The solution proposed by the invention is based on the principle that a liquid column is not or practically not compressible. More in particular the invention underlies the idea to create between a thrust source and the respective end portion of a cable to be advanced, a plurality of liquid columns operative in tandem relationship in the tubing circuit section to be inspected. To this effect according to the invention use is made of a movable support member adapted to advance a cable and or holder attached thereto in the interior of a tube or tubing circuit section, respectively being characterized by a set of coaxially and axially spaced apart sealing ridges made of resiliently deformable material, which are dimensioned in such a way that even in deformed condition, they fit liquid tight sealingly and movably in the respective tube it is adapted to take up a thrust operative both in the one axial direction and in the opposite axial direction, and to convert the same into a movement of the cable and or holder connected thereto in a direction defined by the direction of the respective thrust and control means which in response to a control pressure exerted thereon effect that the outer circumference of that of the sealing ridges being the leading one upon the required direction of advance, is reduced in such a way that an unimpeded progress of the whole is ensured. By forming through such movable supporting members the liquid columns confined in tandem relationship, the interspaces between the advanced supporting members remain constant, so that the electric cable will continue to extend in the tubing circuit according to a more or less neutral line, thus preventing contact against the interior tube surface as well as a possible sticking effect in the interior of the tube in both directions of advance. A possible first embodiment of such a movable supporting member according to the invention is further characterized by a substantially cylindrical slide which is slidable in both axial directions relative to the sealing ridges, as well as being responsive to a pressure, both thrusLand control pressure, operative both in the one and the other axial direction. Such a movable supporting member has a simple and reliable construction and can be advantageously applied in situations in which the thrust functions likewise as control pressure. Another possible embodiment of a movable supporting member according to the invention is characterized in that the sealing ridges extend about a housing provided with a first axially extensible pressure chamber being in communication with a first control pressure pipe,and a second pressure chamber shifted axially relative to the first pressure chamber and insulated therefrom, which chamber is extensible in an axial direction opposite to the firstmentioned axial direction, as well as being in communication with a second control pressure pipe insulated relative to the first pipe. The two control pressure pipes extend together with the electric cable as composite cable from the movable supporting member present closest to the measuring unit and via all successive movable supporting members towards the end of the composite cable where they are connected to control pressure sources. The object of the present invention can be achieved by using a plurality of movable supporting sections which are each composed of two movable supporting members of the above described embodiments, while such a pair of movable supporting members is interconnected through a coaxial hollow tube of flexible material. Through said hollow tube extends the electric cable, possibly together with the said two control pressure pipes, as composite cable. Such a movable supporting section according to the invention is further characterized in that the hollow tube is provided with one or more substantially spherical thickenings.It is thus achieved that under all practical conditions it is ensured that the cable to be supported by the movable supporting members, respectively supporting sections and to be advanced in the respective tubing circuit section, is not twisted and or pressed against the interior tube wall, so that the respective movable supporting members cannot be pulled out of square, thus obtaining an accurately defined progress of said cable and the measuring unit connected thereto in the tubing circuit section to be inspected. In this connection, it should be understood by accurately defined progress such a progress that a unit of displacement of the liquid mass at the outlet of the thrust source corresponds with the unit of displacement of the measuring unit present in the interior of the tubing circuit section to.be inspected. Such a defined progress may for instance be disturbed by tube tube weld connections occurring in tubing circuit sections having a given bent form and or ovalities in a tubing circuit section. An electric cable with a measuring unit electrically connected to the one end thereof, for use in the inspection of a tubing circuit section, is now attached according a further aspect of the invention to various specimens of the above described movable supporting sections. In practice, this means that successive ones of these movable supporting sections are threaded on the cable, so that this extends substantially coaxially through all the movable supporting sections. A configuration that was found practically favourable is obtained when with such an electric cable, the length of a movable supporting section each time is about 20 50 times smaller than the length of the cable present between successive movable supporting sections. In a method for advancing an electric cable to which such movable supporting sections are attached, in a tubing circuit section of a tubing system which comprises an accessible collecting head being in communication with various tubing circuits connected thereto in parallel relationship, the following steps are made according to the invention a the said cable is entirely disposed in a pressure chamber being in communication with the inlet side of the tubing circuit section to be inspected b the said pressure chamber, the said collecting head, as well as the tubing system are entirely filled with a liquid c a thrust is exerted on the liquid present in the pressure chamber, while the liquid forced out of said pressure chamber is conducted via a separate circuit to the inlet side of the tubing circuit section to be inspected and simultaneously with this step d the interior of the collecting head, in so far being external relative to the said separate circuit, is brought into communication with a liquid discharge device. Due to the incompressibility of the liquid present between successive ones of the supporting elements, as well as due to the liquid tight sealing fit of said movable supporting elements in the interiorof the tubing circuit section to be inspected, during the advance of the supporting elements supporting sections, the cable present therebetween is kept always in a more or less neutral line, e.g. in the axis of the tubing circuit section to be inspected, so that it is avoided that the cable will abut against, respectively become stuck in the interior of the tubing circuit section. The invention also makes it possible to remove a cable measuring unit thus introduced from the measuring position in the tubing circuit section to be inspected again from the same measuring position out of the respective tubing circuit section. According to the invention the following steps are then carried out a the thrust exerted on the liquid present in said pressure chamber is removed b said pressure chamber is brought in communication with a liquid discharge c thrust is exerted on the liquid present in the collecting head in so far it is present outside said separate circuit. An apparatus for thus advancing a cable measuring unit in a tubing circuit section to be inspected is characterized according to the invention by a first pressure chamber having a cable drum mounted therein for rotation aguide tube being in communication with the interior of said pressure chamber, the free end of said tube being provided with a hydraulic clutch through which said guide tube can be connected to the tubing circuit section. to be inspected and terminating in the collecting head and a second pressure chamber being in communication with the interior of said collecting head. With the apparatus and methods according to the invention it is achieved that 1 the respective cable measuring unit cannot become stuck in the tubing circuit section to be inspected 2 the length of the tubing circuit section to be inspected is practically unlimited 3 the progress of the cable measuring unit is uniform, in other words without shocks, and without occurrence of vibrations and air bubbles, and 4 the progress directly depends on the mass flow produced by the thrust, i.e. the progress is purely defined. Thus it is possible to establish from the measuring position the location of the measuring unit in the tubing circuit section to be inspected. Some embodiments of the present invention will now be described, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, wherein Fig. 1 diagrarmertically shows a movable supporting section consisting of two tandem connected movable supporting elements in a first embodiment according to the invention, which section is in a first condition wherein no thrust is operative, as well as being present together with successive movable supporting sections in a tubing circuit section to be inspected Fig. 2 diagrammatically shows a second condition with operative thrust wherein the movable supporting section according to Fig. 1 may be present Fig. 3 diagrammatically shows an alternative embodiment of a supporting section consisting of two tandem connected movable supporting elements Fig. 4 diagrammatically shows the manner in which a cable with movable supporting elements attached thereto according to the invention can be advanced in a tubing circuit section to be inspected Fig. 5 diagrammatically shows the manner in which the invention can be applied for inspecting tubes of a steam generator, said tubes having a helical pattern and Fig. 6 diagrammatically shows an apparatus for applying the method according to the invention. Fig. 1 diagrammatically shows a situation in which a cable 1 which, at the leftmost end in the figure, is connected to a measuring unit not shown present in a tubing circuit section 2 to be inspected. Said cable is threaded through, respectively attached to various successive movable supporting elements 3, three of which being shown in the figure. Each of such a movable supporting element comprises in the embodiment according to figures 1 and 2 a cuff like housing 4 made of resilieniiydeformable material and a slide 5 slidable in both axial directions relative to said housing and supported therein. The slides of a pair of movable supporting elements, such as and 32 are interconnected through a flexible hollow tube 6 on which, in the embodiment shown,two substantially spherical thickenings 71 71 are formed. Each housing 4 contains two chambers 81J 82 wherein the respective slide 5 and the associated disc shaped flanges 91, 92 can move in axial direction. Each of said chambers is bounded by an annular stop shoulder 101r 102. During and for the purpose of the inspection all the respective chambers such as 81 82 as well as the tube volume being in communication therewith, are filled with liquid, e.g. water.On account of the cuff shape, each housing, such as 4, comprises two coaxially and axially spaced apart sealing ridges 111, 112 extending around the respective housing, which ridges are dimensioned in such a way that both in undeformed and deformed condition, they are in liquid tight sealing relationship and fitting movably in the respective tube. Fig. 1 shows the situation wherein the thrusts exerted by the liquid operative in this figure from the right to the left are such that all the housings 4 of the respective supporting elements 3 are not expanded and the respective slide 5 with its left flange such as 91 abuts against the associated stop shoulder such as 101. When,starting from this moment, the liquid mass flow continues, in the first instance, as a result of the friction between the respective sealing ridges and the interior of the tube, the respective slide 5 will be shifted in axial direction relative to its housing in the figure to the left so that the respective housing is expanded in a manner as diagrammatically shown in figure 2.Such an expansion issu htb the respective chamber such as 81 is extended in axial direction so that the sealing ridge such as 111 extending about said chamber obtains a smaller outer circumference, as a result of which said sealing ridge becomes spaced apart from the interior tube wall. By such an expansion of the movable supporting elements, irregularities on the tube wall, for instance in spots where weld connections have been made, can be passed unimpededly without disturbing the uniform progress of the whole.The spherical thickenings such as 71 72 ensure that in this respect no problems are created either when e.g. tube tube welds have to be passed in sinuous tube sections, while the geometrical shape before and after the respective tube tube weld is not the same and or ovalities in bent tube sections.The balls in such a situation then function as additional spacers, so that the cable remains free from the tube wall and cannot twist, thus preventing movable supporting elements from being pulled out of square, so that a properly defined advancing movement of the cable and the measuring unit connected thereto remains ensured. A practically effective embodiment is obtained when the movable supporting elements are interconnected pair wise by means of a hollow flexible tube such as 6 to a movable supporting section, while the length of such a movable supporting section is then a certain number of times smaller than the successive cable occurring between successive ones of such movable supporting sections. A practically favourable ratio is obtained when said distances are 100 mm, and 2000 mm respectively.With such dimensions, also helically wound tubing circuit sections with practically found pitch angles and diameters can be traversed conwniently. A particular advantage of the invention also resides in that through the proposed constructions, the cable measuring unit can be introduced from one and the same measuring position into the tube and also can be removed therefrom. In other words, the proposed movable supporting elements can be used for transport in both axial directions.When e.g. the movable supporting sections, movable supporting elements, respectively, shown in fig. 1 and 2,have to be moved instead of to the left, to the right, the thrust will be operative on the respective left hand flanges such as 9 of the slides 5. In the first instance the respective slide will then be shifted relative to its housing in axial direction, viz. to the right hand side in the figure, so that then the respective right hand flanges 92 press against the associated stop shoulders such as 102. Upon further progress of the mass liquid flow, the respective right hand chambers such as 82 will then be expanded in axial direction, so that then the associated sealing ridges such as 112 will obtain a smaller outer circumference and as result become free from the internal tube wall.In this manner, in the direction of movement directed to the right, also an unimpeded and uniform progress of the whole is ensured. In the embodiment shown in fig. 1 and 2 a slide such as 5 functions both as control member which, in response to a control pressure exerted thereon, likewise functioning as thrust, effects that the outer circumference of the sealing ridge to be considered as leading one in the direction of movement is reduced in such a way that said sealing ridge becomes free from the internal tube wall, as well as a portion of a drive member which, in response to the thrust exerted thereon, converts said thrust into a corresponding progress of the movable supporting element in its entirety. In this embodiment, both the control pressure and the thrust are supplied by the same mass liquid flow which may be operative via the respective openings in the said annular stop shoulders, such as 101, 102. The embodiment shown in fig. 3, as regards operation and apparatus, is similar to that according to fig. 1 and 2.The embodiment of fig. 3 differs substantially from the embodiment of fig. 1 and 2 in thatintheembodiment of fig. 3 use is made on the one end of a separate thrust, on the other end , of. a separate control pressure. The thrust as produced by the mass liquid flow in the tubing circuit section to be inspected produces, as in the embodiment of fig. 1 and 2,that the movable supporting elements supporting sections and the cable attached thereto, in response to the direction wherein said thrust is operative, are advanced to the left or to the right in the figure. The above control operation in the embodiment of fig. 3, however, is ensured by two pressure chambers formed in each movable supporting element 5, such as 1211 122, which are each extensible in axial direction.Each of said pressure chambers communicates with an associated control pressure pipe 131, 132, each being connected to a control pressure source, not shown, provided on that cable end which is not the measuring unit end. Said control pressure may be transmitted via the respective control pressure pipe via liquid to the respective pressure chambers.More in particular, when the assembly of movable supporting elements and cable has to be advanced to the right, to the left respectively in fig. 3, the respective pressure chambers 1221 121 respectively, will be pressurized, so that the sealing ridge to be considered as leading one in the direction of movement, of the respective movable supporting elements becomes free from the internal wall of the tubing circuit section to be inspected. With the thus expanded pressure chambers, the continuing mass liquid flow will advance the respective movable elements in the required direction. Fig. 4 illustrates the principle of the present invention.The cuff shaped movable supporting elements present in the liquid filled tube section 2 are indicated by 31 32 3n. In fig. 4 is indicated by f the counter pressure produced by friction between the respective movable supporting elements and theirternal tube wall, which counter pressure has to be overcome for advancing the respective movable supporting element in the required direction fig. 4 to the left . Since the cuff shaped movable supporting elements fit liquid tight in the tube, it will be necessary to exert at the inlet side, i.e.the right hand side in fig. 4, a thrust given by p nf, wherein p represents the pressure to be overcome at the left hand side of the movable supporting element 3 for advancing the whole to the left. The said pressure difference f over the first or in the movable supporting element 31 to be considered the leading one in the direction of progress is such, that a successive movable supporting element 32 is drawn further into the tube and the measuring unit which is attached for instance in situ of the first movable supporting element 31 is advanced in the tube.Since, as explained in the above,always one of the sealing ridges of a respective movable supporting element will continue to be sealing, the liquid columns between successive movable supporting elements will always keep the same, atleast substantially the same length, as a result of which the cable present in a liquid column, during the advance, continues to extend according to a more or less neutral line in the respective tubing circuit, e.g.according to the axis, so that contact against or becoming stuck in this tubing circuit is avoided, so that a defined and regular advance of the cable measuring unit is ensured. As additional security, the cuff shaped movable supporting elements are combined pair wise to the movable supporting sections described in the above, so that a leak may be produced in one of the movable supporting elements of such a pair, e.g in situ of a weld, without adversely affecting the operation of the assembly. With reference to fig. 5, methods will be described in the following through which, with use of the above described provisions, a cable measuring unit can be introduced advanced in, respectively removed from advanced in a tube assembly. Without being restricted thereto, the invention illustrates a tube assembly with helical tubes of a steam generator. The steam generator indicated in general by 14 comprises an upper collecting head 15 and a lower collecting head 16. The lower head 16 communicates via a valve not shown with a water supply source. The tubing assembly of the steam generator is diagrammatically indicated in the figure by dashed dotted lines. Each tubing circuit section forming a connection between the upper collecting head and the lower collecting head should now be separately inspectable.On account of practical technical reasons, it is required that the cable measuring unit introduced from the upper collecting head can also be removed again from said position from the inspected tubing circuit section When a cable measuring unit has to be introduced in a given tubing circuit section for inspection purposes, the following procedure is followed.The provisions described in connection with fig. 1 3 are attached on the cable. Likewise, the measuring unit, directly before the first movable supporting element, is attached thereto and connected electrically to the cable. The whole is then applied in a first pressure vessel 17 in a manner to be further indicated. From said pressure vessel, via a separate guide tube 18,there is formed a liquid tight and compressionresistant connection with the inlet side 19 of the tubing circuit section to be inspected. A second pressure vessel 20 being in open communication with the upper collecting head 15 is connected through the pipe 21 to a liquid discharge.Subsequently, by opening the abovementioned valve, the whole tubing assembly, including the guide tube 18, the first pressure vessel 17 and the second pressure vessel 20, is entirely filled via the lower collecting head 16 with water which can flow away via pipe 21. Subsequently, thrust is exerted via pipe 22 on the liquid present in the first pressure vessel, so that inamanner to be further described the measuring unit and the first cuff shaped movable supporting element attached thereto are introduced via the guide tube 18 in the inlet side 19 into the tubing circuit section to be inspected.The liquid mass flow produced by the thrust effects then that the respective cuff shaped movable supporting elements and the cable attached thereto are advanced in the tubing circuit section to be inspected. If the thus introduced cable measuring unit has to be subsequently removed from the inspected tubing circuit section, the following procedure is followed the pipe 22 of the first pressure vessel is connected to a liquid discharge and the pipe 21 of the second pressure vessel is connected to a thrust source. When in this situation the thrust source becomes operative, thrust is transmitted via the upper collecting head 15 and the tubing circuit sections terminating therein except the inspected tubing circuit section to the lower collecting head 16, so that via said lower collecting head thrust is exerted on the inspected tubing circuit section.As explained in the above, the cable measuring unit present therein is then moved in a direction towards the upper collecting head. Fig. 6 diagrammatically shows the manner in which the above described cable with the movable supporting sections according to the invention attached thereto can be transported by. the application ofthrust towards and into a selected tubing circuit section. To this effect there is provided in the first pressure vessel 17 a cable drum mounted by rollers 231 234 for rotation about a vertical axis. The cable with the movable supporting elements according to ie invention attached thereto is wound about said drum. The bottom side of the first pressure vessel has a funnel shaped configuration, so that, when thrust is exerted via pipe 22 on the liquid present in the pressure vessel, the drum is brought in rotation and the cable with the measuring unit connected to the end thereof, is pressed via the funnel shaped guide wall into the guide tube 18. Upon continuing mass flow produced by the thrust, the measuring unit is then further advanced in the tubing section to be inspected. Naturally, the invention can also be applied to other tubing assemblies for which it is required that certain tubing sections are inspected.