# Improved filling material for cables.

## Abstract
A cable fill composrtion comprises a paraffinic or naphthenic oil, a styrene ethylene butylene styrene block copolymer, and a linear polyethylene wax having a molecular weight of about 1000, whereby an improved drip point of the composition is obtained. The composition is suitable for filling voids in electrical and light conducting cables.

## Claims
Claims 1. A cable fill composition comprising X ASTM Type 103, 104A, or 104B, or mixtures thereof paraffinic or naphthenic oil having a minimum sp. gr. of 0.860, a minimum SUS viscosity at 98.9 C 210 degrees F. of 45, a maximum pour point ASTM D 97 of 6.7 C 20 degrees F. and a maximum of 5 percent aromatic oils Y a styrene ethylene butylene styrene block copolymer having a styrene rubber ratio of approximately 0.2 to 0.5 and Z a linear polyethylene wax having a molecular weight of about 1000, the ingredientsX, Y and Z having relative proportions falling within the shaded area bounded by ABCDEF of the accompanying drawing. 2. A composition as claimed in claim 1, wherein the amount of X is from 85 to 90 , the amount of Y is from 5 to 8 and the amount of Z is from 4 to 6 . 3. A composition as claimed in claim 2, wherein the amount of X is about 89 , the amount of Y is about 6 and the amount of Z is about 5 . 4. A composition as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3, wherein component X has R pour point ASTM 97 of 17.8 C zero degrees F. a SUS viscosity at 9.90C 2100F of 9 3.7 a sp. gr. ave. of 0.884 and a maximum aromatic oils of 1 . 5. A composition af claimed in any of claims 1 to 4, wherein the styrene rubber ratio in component Y is approximately 0.4 6. A cable comprising a plurality of conductors contained within a sheath leaving voids between the conductors, and between the conductors and the sheath, and a filling material filling the voids, characterized in that the filling material is a composition as claimed in any of claims 1 to 5. 7 The cable of claim 6 in which the conductors are electrical conductors. 8. . The cable of claim 6in which the conductors are light conductors.

## Description
IMPROVED FILLING MATERIAL FOR CABLES This invention rclates to an improved filling material for cables. In the disclosure of U.S. Patent No. 4,1 6,240, and U.S. Patent No. 4,259,540, which disclosures are hereby incorporated by reference, a filling material for electrical and light conducting cable is described ,,which provides waterproofing for underground teiephone cable. The composition described in U.S. Patent No. 4,176,240 for that use is said to comprise three components 1 ASTM Type 104 A napthenic oil having a minimumsp. gr. of 0.860, a minimum SUS viscosity at 98.9 C 210 degrees F. of 45, a maximum pour point ASTM D 97 of 12.20C 10 degrees F., and a maximum of 5 percent aromatic oils 2 a styrene ethylene butylene styrene block copolymer having a styrene rubbler ratio of approximately 0.4 and 3 a polyethylene having a softening point of 110 degrees C. to 130 degrees C. The composition of U.S. Patent No. 4,259,540 is similar, but the oil may be paraffinic or naphthenic with a somewhat higher. maximum pour point and the block copolymer styrene rubber ratio may be from approximately b.2 to 0.5. Such cable fill compositions as described in the above mentioned patents are deficient in use in that they have two severaly limiting properties namely 1 when the temperature approaches 65.6 C 1500F. the fill material drips out of the cable, and 2 the temperature at which the cable is filled limited to 110 C 230 F. because of the potential damage to the polyethylthio insulation at a higher temperature, but even at this temperature the viscosity of the uric a t cable filled not sufficiently low i.e., fluid to ensure that all of the crevices in the bundle of wires will be filled with the waterproofing ccmposition. This is particularly true for cable cores having 500 or more wire pairs.This invention increases the utility of a gelled oil composition significantly, not only making it suitable for cable makers who require at least 76.70C 1700F. drip temperature, but since the viscosity of the improved composition is about one half of that of the prior art composition at the filling temperature, greater assurance is obtained that the cables will be completely filled and the risk of damaging insulation during filling is also reduced since lower fill temperatures can be used. In addition, this invention enables cables with a large number of wire pairs to be filled reliably without the need to preheat the core as is sometimes done in using the gels available heretofore. The present invention thus provides a cable fill composition comprising X ASTM Type 103, 104A, or 104B, or mixtures thereof paraffinic or naphthenic oil having a minimum sp. gr. of 0.860, a minimum SUS viscosity at 98.9 C 210 degrees F. of 45, a maximum pour point ASTM D 97 of 6.7 C 20 degrees F. and a maximum of 5 percent aromatic oils Y a styrene ethylene butylene styrene block copolymer having a styrene rubber ratio of approximately 0.2 to 0.5 and Z a linear polyethyrene wax having a molecular weight of about 1000, the ingredients X, Y and Z having relative proportions falling within the shaded are2 bounded by ABCDEF of the accompanying drawing. The invention ala provides a cable comprising a plurality of conductors contained within a sheath leaving voids between the conductors, and between the conductors and the sheath, and a filling material filling the voids, characterized in that the filling material is a composition as defined above. The styrene ethylene butylene styrene block copolymer preferably has a styrene rubber ratio of approximately 0.4. 28 The polyethylene wax has a viscosity of about 13 cps at 1400C, a rather sharp melting point of from about 110 to 1130C 2300 to 2350F. , a density of about 0.96 and will have a comparative narrow molecular weight distribution as compared to the poly ethylene waxdisclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,176,240. Such a wax is commercially available as Polywax 1000 from the Bareco Division of Petrolite Corporation and it is the use of such a linear polyethylene wax which imparts the improved properties to the composition of the invention. Reference is now made to the accompanying drawing, which is a ternary compositional diagram taken from U.S. Patent.No. 4,176,240 giving the composition ranges of the cable filling material of the invention. A typical composition of the invention will have the following formulation 89 175 SUS 100F Paraffin Oil 5 Bareco Polywax 1000 Linear, narrow M.W. Polyethylene 6 Kraton .16n Rubbet, block copolymer. This composition is characterized in its viscosity and drip temperature and compared wlth the properties cf the price at cable fill compositi n in the following table Properties of Gelled Oil Filling Compound Prior Art This invention BrookfieldViscosity, cP 930C 200F i 200 83 99 C 210F 80 47 104 C 220F 60 37 110 C 230F 45 32 1160C 240F 37 28 130 C 266F 30 22Drip Temp. C F 66 67 150 152 79 175 Determined by holding a 20 g. sample in a 7.6 cm 3 diameter dish vertically in a forced air oven for 12 hours. Using the polyethylene disclosed in U.S. PatentNos. 4,176,240 and 4,259,540. As can be seen, the viscosity of the composition of this invention is significantly lower and the drip temperature is significantly higher than the prior art composition. The proportions of paraffin. oil, linear polyethylene, and rubber for the composition of the invention will be the same as that disclosed in U.S.Patents Nos. 4,176,240 and 4,259,540 which is defined by the shaded area bounded by ABCDEF of the figures of those patents. Preferably, however, the amount of paraffin oii will be from about 85 to about 90 , the amount of linear polyethylene ill be from about 4 to about 6 and the amount of block copolymer will be from about 5 to about S The cable fill composition of the invention is readily used in the ccnventional electrical and light conducting cable filling operations used into 10 industry. One much used technique is a pressure .f filling technique where the completed core, without wrap is passed through a tube 0.61 t o 1.83 m 2 to 6 feet long.The molten gelled oil compound is forced into the core as it passes through. Chilled sections on each end prevent molten material from. squirting out. Some techniques apply vacuum just ahead of the pressure sections. If it is difficult to force the filling material into the centre Of large pair count fine gauge cores a separation. device which spreads the units apart in the pressure tube may be used. The most desirable place to fill is at the sheathing line. However, filling at the stranding line can be done satisfactorily if a wrapping is applied to contain th e filler. The filled core, of course, must then be wound on a reel and then unwound as it is sheathed. When the above described cable fill is used in the pressure fill technique described above, a filled cable is obtained which is completely filled with gel, exhibits no drip problems below 6.70C 170 F. and also meets all of the tests necessary for high performance e.g. electrical resistance, water resistance, and the like.