# Improved structural panel.

## Abstract
A structural panel for use for example in bridge decking has spaced steel sheets 2A, 2B between which are corrugated stiffening members 3A of glass fibre reinforced plastics material. The stiffening members 3A are glued to the spaced sheets 2A, 2B . The voids 15 are filled with plastics foam 4 . A strong structure results, in which fabrication costs and maintenance costs are reduced, by virtue of the absence of great lengths of fatigue failure susceptible welds.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A structural panel, for use as a unit for example in bridge decking or in the floor of a building, and capable of withstanding loading applied transversely to the panel and also loading applied in the general plane of the panel, and the panel comprising spaced sheet members 2A,2B and at least one elongate stiffening member 3A rigidly fixed to and between the spaced sheet members, characterized in that a the material of which the said at least one elongate stiffening member 3A is made is different from the material of which the spaced sheet members 2A,2B are made b the Young s modulus of the said at least one elongate stiffening member 3A is considerably less than the Young s modulus of the spaced sheet members 2A,ZB and c the said at least one stiffening member 3A is glued, bonded, or otherwise adhered to the spaced sheet members 2A,2B . 2. A panel according to claim 1, characterized in that the spaced sheet members 2A,2B are parallel. 3. A panel according to claim 1, characterized in that the spaced sheet members 2A,2B are flat. 4. A panel according to claim 1 characterized in that the Young s modulus of the said at least one elongate stiffening member 3A is not more than 50 of the Young s modulus of the spaced sheet members 2A,2B . 5. A panel according to claim 1 characterized in that the material of the spaced sheet members 2A, 2B is steel or aluminium or prestressed reinforced concrete. 6. A panel according to claim 1 characterized in that the material of the said at least one elongate stiffening member 3A is mineral fibre reinforced plastics material. 7. A panel according to claim 6 characterized in that the mineral fibre reinforcement 5 comprises glass fibres 5A,5B arranged crosswise and also diagonally to the length of the stiffening member 3A . 8. A panel according to claim 1 characterized in that the said at least one elongate stiffening member 3A comprises two or more strips 3At, 3A2 of mineral fibre reinforced plastics material, adjacent strips 3A1,3A2 being disposed at an angle to one another. 9. A panel according to claim 8 characterized in that the or each stiffening member 3A is of Vcorrugated cross section with strips 3A1,3A2 connected at the apices 3A3 of the vees. 10. A panel according to claim 6 characterized in that the or each stiffening members formed with an integral flange 10 at each point of connection with a sheet member 2A or 2B . 11. A panel according to claim 10 characterized in that each flange 10 is tapered and has an upper surface 11 and a. lower surface 12 , the upper surface 11 being adhered to one of the sheet members 2A or 2B and the lower surface 12 lying in a plane inclined to the plane of the upper surface 11 . 12. A panel according to claim 11 characterized in that the mineral fibre reinforcement 5 in the or each stiffening member 3A extends into a flange 10 at a location closer to the lower surface 12 than to the upper surface 11 . 13. A panel according to claim 1 characterized in that voids 15 between the sheet members 2A,2B and the or each elongate stiffening member 3A contain expanded plastics foam material 4 . 14. A panel according to claim 6 characterized in that the or each elongate stiffening member 3A is adhered to the spaced sheet members 2A,2B by an epoxy resin or a toughened acrylic resin.

## Description
Field of the invention. This invention relates to a structural panel, for use as a unit for example in bridge decking or in the floor of a building, and capable of withstanding compressive loading applied transversely to the panel and also loading applied in the general plane of the panel. The panel comprises spaced sheet members and one or more stiffening members between and rigidly fixed to the spaced sheet members. In its preferred form the structural panel is of sandwich construction with elongate stiffening members between and rigidly fixed to flat parallel sheet members. The structural panel of the invention may be used for instance in bridge decking, floors of buildings, ships decks and hulls, and car park floors. Description of the prior art Structural panels are known in which a flat sheet steel member is supported on steel ribs, the ribs being connected to the sheet steel member by long welds. This known construction has two main disadvantages the high cost of fabrication, and the tendency of the long welds to fail in use, leading to high cost of maintenance. The reason for the former is primarily the great amount of skilled welding work involved in welding the numerous decking panels required in for example a road bridge. The reason for weld failure is primarily due to the high flexural stiffness of a steel rib, compared to the low flexural stiffness of the sheet steel member.The sheet steel member flexes over the top of the stiff steel rib, causing eventual weld fatigue failure at points of weld weakness. In maintenance this involves expensive re welding wdrk. The problem thus exists of providing a structural panel which is less expensive to make, by avoiding the need for great lengths of expensive welding, and further which avoids weld failures and thus expensive maintenance work. The invention aims to solve this problem and in addition to provide a structural panel which, for a given loading capability, is lighter in weight than known structures. Summary of the invention According to this invention there is provided a structural panel, for use as a unit for example in bridge decking or in the floor of a building, and capable of withstanding loading applied transversely to the panel and also loading applied in the general plane of the panel, and the panel comprising spaced sheet members and at least one elongate stiffening member rigidly fixed to and between the spaced sheet members, characterized in that a the material of which the said at least one elongate stiffening member is made is different from the material of which the spaced sheet members are made b the Young s modulus of the said at least one elongate stiffening member is considerably less than the Young s modulus of the spaced sheet members and c the said at least one stiffening member is glued, bonded, or otherwise adhered to the spaced sheet members. The spaced sheet members are preferably parallel, and they may be flat or curved. The Young s modulus E of the or each elongate stiffening member is preferably not more than half that of the spaced sheet members. The spaced sheet members may be of for example steel, aluminium or prestressed reinforced concrete.The or each elongate stiffening member is made preferably of glass fibre reinforced plastics material, with the fibres arranged crosswise and also diagonally to the length of the stiffening member. The preferred adhesive is an epoxy resin or a toughened acrylic resin. The plastics material used as the adhesive may be different from the plastics material of which the or each stiffening member is moulded.The stiffening members are preferably moulded by what is known as pultrusion, that is, the plastics material with mineral fibre reinforcement is pulled from a forming die of the appropriate shape to give the required cross section, for example anI section, for a stiffening member of that crosssectional shape. In one embodiment of the invention a sandwichtype panel has I section glass reinforced plastics stiffening beams adhered top and bottom to spaced parallel flat steel sheets, with stiffening beams extending both lengthwise and transversely. The transverse stiffening beams need only be shearconnected to the lengthwise stiffening beams. The voids defined by the stiffening beams between the flat steel sheets are preferably filled with foamed plastics material, to give additional stiffness and corrosion resistance to the structural panel. Because the elongate stiffening members are of considerably lower flexural stiffness than the sheet members, stress concentrations are not set up in the sheet members due to the attachment of the stiffening members. In addition the stress distrThu tion across the adhesive connections between the stiffening members and the sheet members can be designed to be as uniform as possible by the use of tapering flanges on the stiffening members and arranging the fibre reinforcement in a particular manner. The tendency for the adhesive connections to fail is therefor reduced as compared with the long welds in known decking panels, and lightweight epoxy resin surfacings can be used. Preferably the glass or other mineral reinforced plastics, and any foam filling material used, has good fire resistant properties so that where it is necessary to weld adjacent metal sheet members together, this can be done. Brief description of the drawings. An embodiment of the invention will now be described by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 1 is a diagrammatic part sectional isometric view showing a portion of sandwich type structural panel and supporting structure Figure 2 is an enlarged diagrammatic section taken on the plane 11 ll of Figure 1 Figure 3 is a diagrammatic detail elevation of an elongate stiffening member Figure 4 is a detail section showing a joint between two panels and Figure 5 is a diagrammatic detail section of a flange of a stiffening member. Description of the preferred embodiment. Referring to Figure 1, there is seen part of a sandwich type structural panel with part of its supporting structure, the latter including a primary web 1A and a cross girder EB. The panel comprises two flat, spaced, parallel, steel sheet members 2A, 2B which are glued by an epoxy resin or by a toughened acrylic resin to a series of elongate stiffening members 3A extending in the longitudinal direction as shown. In Figure 1 three stiffening members 3A are seen. Each of these three elongate stiffening members 3A is a unitary moulded structure made up Figures 1 and 2 of, in effect, three pairs of strips 3A1, 3A2 of glass fibre reinforced plastics material, with adjacent strips 3A1, 3A2 being disposed at an angle to one another.Thus the stiffening member 3A is of V corrugated cross section with strips 3At, 3A2 connected at the apices 3A3 of the vees.Each such stiffening member is moulded as a single unitary structure. At the apices 3A3 are flanges 10, seen in Figure 5, which will be described in more detail below. Although the preferred form of elongate stiffening member 3A is as shown and as described above, other elongate members of moulded, reinforced plastics material could be used. Since the sheet members 2A, 2B are of steel and the elongate stiffening members 3A are of moulded glass fibre reinforced plastics material, it will be understood that they are of different materials and have a different Young s modulus, that of the plastics members 3A being very much less than that of the steel members 2A and 2B. Other materials can be used, but the material of the sheet members must be different from that of the stiffening members, and the Young s modulus of the stiffening members must be considerably less than that of the sheet members and preferably at least 50 less. Figure 5 is a diagrammatic detail section of a flange 10. The flanges 10 are integral with the strips 3A1 and 3A2 of the stiffening member at each apex 3A3. The flange 10 is tapered as shown and has an upper surface 11 and a lower surface 12. The upper surface 11 is flat and is adhered to the sheet member 2A by adhesive. The lower surface 12 is in two parts 12A, 12B, each lying in a plane which is inclined to the plane of the upper surface 11. The glass fibre reinforcement 5 of the strips 3A1, 3A2 extends up into the flange 10 and is bent round, as seen at 13 in Figure 5, so that the portion 14 of the reinforcement lies close to the surface 12 than to the surface 11. By this means the stress distribution across the adhesive connection between a flange surface 11 and a sheet member 2A, 2B can be made uniform.The tendency of the adhesive connection to fail is in this way kept low, and a lightweight epoxy resin surface covering not shown can be used on the top of the sheet member 2A. The voids or compartments 15 formed between the sheet members 2A, 2B and the strips 3A1, 3A2 are filled with fire resistant expanded foam 4. Referring to Figures 1 and 2, glass fibre reinforced plastics diaphragms 16, of generally triangular shape, are fitted in the voids 15 over the cross girder 1B. The preferred arrangement of glass fibre reinforcement 5 is seen in Figure 3, with fibres 5A, 5B laid crosswise in the plastics material and also diagonally to the length of the stiffening member 3A.This arrangement of the fibres gives good shear strength and stiffness with low axial stiffness. In this way shear deflection is kept low, as is the variation in field stress in the sheet members 2A, 2B caused by the sitffening members 3A being adhered to them. Figure 4 shows a welded connection between adjacent panels, with sheet members 2A, 2A, and 2B, 2B being butt welded together along seam lines 6A, 6B. The welds are backed by metal strips 7. The edge of each panel is sealed by a strip 8 of glass reinforced plastics material. The void between the strips 8 and strips 7 is also filled with plastics foam 4, after the panels have been welded together at 6A, 6B. In the present embodiment, disclosed by way of example, the top and bottom faces of the panel are 200mm apart the upper sheet member 2A is of steel 8mm thick and the lower sheet member 2B of steel 6mm thick. The stiffening members 3A are formed by the pultrusion method referred to above. One possible method of fabrication of the structure shown in Figure 1 is as follows. i Connecting flats 9 of the primary web 1A and cross girder 1B are welded to the underside of the lower sheet member 2B.ii The upper sheet member 2A is placed upside down on a flat bed or on a curved bed if camber is required and the stiffening members 3A are glued down on to the member 2A, at the appro priate spacings.iii Resin adhesive is applied to the free flange surfaces 11 of the stiffening members. The lower sheet member 2B is lifted and placed accurately on the surfaces 11 it is then pushed down firmly by means of rams.appliedcat the locations of the stiffening members, at the same time being heated to cure the resin adhesive. Finally, the plastics foam material 4 is pumped in to fill the voids 15. The above described embodiment of structural panel in accordance with the invention is primarily intended for use as a vehicle supporting surface, for example a bridge deck. But the panel of the invention can have many other applications one example is the use of a sandwich type panel to form the bottom flange of a box girder in this case the plastics stiffening members would be reinforced by a longitudinally arranged fibre reinforcernnt rather than the diagonally arranged fibre reinforcement described above. Another example is the use of a sandwich type panel deck in which the two sheet members are aluminium plates such a deck is very light in weight and can be used for example in a temporary military bridge. A further example is the use of a sandwichtype panel in which the two sheet members are prestressed concrete slabs such a panel can be for example a floor in a building.