# Substituted pyrazole herbicides.

## Abstract
Pyrazoles useful as herbicides have the formula CHEM wherein R 1 is C1 C4 haloalkyl or ROR 5 , wherein R is C1 C2 alkylene or C2 alkylidene and R 5 is hydrogen, C1 C4 alkyl, C2 C5 alkanoyl, aroyl, C8 C10 aralkanoyl, C7 C9 aralkyl, phenyl, or phenyl substituted with C1 C4 alkyl, C1 C4 alkoxy, trihalomethyl, hydroxy, cyano or nitro or benzoyl substituted with halogen, C1 C4 alkyl, C1 C4 alkoxy, trihalomethyl hydroxy, cyano or nitro R 2 is C1 C4 alkyl, C5 C6 cycloalkyl, C7 C9 aralkyl, C7 C9 alkaryl, phenyl, naphthyl or a 5 or 6 membered heterocyclic group containing oxygen, sulfur or nitrogen, or R2 is phenyl substituted with halogen, trihalomethyl, C1 C4 alkoxy, hydroxy or cyano Y is oxygen or sulfur, R 3 is C1 C4 alkyl, C2 C4 alkenyl, C3 C4 alkynyl, C2 C6 alkoxyalkyl or C2 C6 alkylthioalkyl R 4 is hydrogen, C1 C4 alkyl or trihalomethyl provided that R 2 is not 3,4 dialkylphenyl or 3,4 dihalophenyl. Compositions including the above pyrazoles used as preemergence and postemergence treatment of weeds are also described.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A pyrazole compound having the structural formulaEMI18.1 wherein R1 is C1 C4 haloalkyl or ROR5, wherein R is C1 C2 alkylene or C2 alkylidene and R5 is hydrogen, Pig alkyl, C2 C5 alkanoyl, aroyl, C8 C1O aralkanoyl, C7 Cg aralkyl, phenyl, or phenyl substituted with C1 C4 alkyl, C1 C4 alkoxy, trihalomethyl, hydroxy, cyano or nitro or benzoyl substituted with halogen, C C4 alkyl, C1 C4 alkoxy, trihalomethyl, hydroxy, gano or nitro R is C1 C4 alkyl, C5 C6 cycloalkyl, C7 Cg aralkyl, C7 Cg alkaryl, phenyl, naphthyl or a 5 or 6 membered heterocydic group con taining oxygen, sulfur or nitrogen, or R2 is phenyl substituted with halogen, trihalomethyl, C1 C4 alkoxy hydroxy or cyano Y is 3 oxygen or sulfur, R is C1 C4 alkyl, C2 C4 alkenyl, C3 C4 alkynyl, C2 C6 alkoxyalkyl or C2 C6 alkylthioalkyl R4 is hydrogen, C1 C4 alkyl or trihalomethyl provided that R2 is not 3,4 dial kylph enyl or 3,4 dihalophenyl. 2. The compound of claim 1 wherein R1 is C1 C2 chloroalkyl R is C1 C22 alkylene, R5 is hydrogen, C1 C4 alkyl, phenyl or benzyl R is cyclohexyl, phenyl, halophenyl, trifluoromethyl phenyl, methoxyphanyl, benzyl, naphthyl, Thienyl or furanyl Y is 3 oxygen or sulfur R3 is C1 C2 alkyl, propenyl or propynyl R4 is hydrogen or C1 C4 alkyl. 1 3. The compound of claim 1 wherein R is selected from chloromethyl, chloroethyl, hydroxymethyl, hydroxyethyl, methoxyethyl, ethoxymethyl, phenoxymethyl, methylcarbonyloxymethyl and benzoyloxymethyl R2 is cyclohexyl, phenyl, naphthyl, furanyl or phenyl substituted with fluorine, chlorine, bromine, methyl, tri fluoromethyl or methoxy 0 R3 is C1 C3 alkyl, allyl, propargyl or ethoxyethyl R4 is hydrogen or C1 C3 alkyl and Y is oxygen. 4. A preemergence herbicidal composition comprising a pyrazole compound having the structural formulaEMI19.1 wherein R1 is chloromethyl, chloroethyl, hydroxymethyl, methoxymethyl. ethoxymethyl, phenoxymethyl, or benzoyloxymethyl R2 is cyclohexyl, phenyl, naphthyl, or phenyl substituted with fluorine, chlorine, bromine or methyl, provided that such substituents are not in the para position and R2 is not 3,4 dialkylphenyl or 3,4 dihalophenyl R3 is C1 C2 alkyl, or propargyl R4 is hydrogen orC1 C2 alkyl and Y is oxygen, and a carrier therefor. 5. The composition according to claim 4 wherein the pyrazole compound is selected from the group consisting of methyl 1 hydroxymethyl 3 or 5 methyl 5 or 3 phenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxylate methyl 3 or 5 3 fluorophenyl l hydroxymethyl 5 or 3 methyl , 1 H pyrazole 4 carboxylate methyl 1 Hydroxymethyl 3 or 5 methyl 5 or 3 3 trifluoromethyl phenyll l H pyrazole 4carboxylate or mixtures thereof. 6. A postemergence herbicidal composition comprising a pyrazole compound having the structural formulaEMI19.2 wherein R1 is C1 C4 haloalkyl or ROR5, wherein R is C1 C2 alkylene or C2 alkylidene and R5 is hydrogen, C1 C4 alkyl, C2 C5 alkanoyl, aroyl, C8 C1O aralkanoyl, C7 Cg aralkyl, phenyl, or phenyl substituted with C1 C4 alkyl, C1 C4 alkoxy, trihalomethyl, hydroxy, cyano or nitro or benzoyl substituted with halogen, C C4 alkyl, C1 C4 alkoxy, trihalomethyl, hydroxy, gano or nitro R is C1 C4 alkyl, C5 C6 cycloalkyl,C7 C9 aralkyl, C7 C9 alkaryl, phenyl, naphthyl or a 5 or 6 membered heterocyclic group containing oxygen, sulfur or nitrogen, or R2 is phenyl substituted with halogen, trihalomethyl, C1 C4 alkoxy, hydroxy or cyano Y is oxygen or sulfur, R3 is C1 C4 alkyl, C2 C4 alkenyl, C3 C4 alkynyl, C2 C6 alkoxyalkyl or C2 C6 alkylthioalkyl R4 is hydrogen, C1 C4 alkyl or trihalomethyl provided that Rê is not 3,4dialkylphenyl or 3,4 dihalophenyl. 7. The composition according to claim 6 wherein R1 is chloromethyl, R is methylene, R5 is hydrogen or methylcarbonyl, R2is cyclohexyl, phenyl, 2 or 3 fluorophenyl, 2 or 3 methylphenyl or 2 or 3 trifluoromethylphenyl R3 is methyl, allyl or propargyl, R4 is methyl or ethyl and Y is oxygen. 8. A postemergence composition according to claim 6 wherein the pyrazole compound is Methyl 1 hydroxymethyl 3 or 5 methyl 5 or 3 3 methyiphenyl 1 H Pyrazole 4 carboxylate Methyl 3 or 5 3 fluorophenyl l hydroxymethyl 5 or 3 methyl 1 H Pyrazole4 carboxylate Methyl 1 hydr6xmethyl 3 or 5 methyl 5 or 3 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 1 H Pyrazole 4 carboxylate Methyl 3 or 5 2 fluorophenyl 1 hydroxymethyl 5 or 3 methyl 1 H Pyrazole4 carboxylate Methyl 1 hydroxymethyl 3 or 5 2 furanyl 5 or 3 methyl 1H Pyrazole 4 carboxylate Methyl 1 hydroxymethyl 3 or 5 methyl 5 or 3 2 methylphenyl l H Pyrazole 4 carboxylate 2 Propenyl 1 hydroxymethyl 3 or 5 methyl 5 or 3 phenyl 1 H Pyrazole 4 carboxylate 2 Propynyl I hydroxymethyl 3 or 5 methyl 5 or 3 phenyl 1 H Pyrazole 4 carboxylate Methyl 3 or 5 cycloh exyl 1 hydroxymethyl 5 or 3 methyl 1 H Pyrazole 4 carboxylate Methyl 3 or 5 ethyl 1 hydroxymethyl 5 or 3 phenyl 1 H pyrazole 4 carboxylate Methyl 1 chloromethyl 3 or 5 methyl5 or 3 3 methylphenyl 1 H Pyrazde 4 carboxylate Methyl 1 hydroxymethyl 3 or 5 methyl 5 or 3 phenyl l H pyrazole 4 carboxylate Methyl 1 acetyloxy methyl 3 or 5 methyl 5 or 3 phenyl lH pyrazole 4 carboxylate or mixtures Thereof. 9. The composition of claims 4 or 7 wherein the pyrazole compound is impregnated on a finely divided, powdered or granular carrier. 10. The composition of claim 9 wherein the carrier is selected from the group consisting of attapulgite clay, sand, vermiculite, corn cobs, activated charcoal or mixtures thereof. 11. The composition of claim 9 wherein surface active or dispersing agents are added and the carrier is a mineral silicate in powdered form. 12. The composition of claim 11 wherein the mineral silicate is mica, talc, pyrophyllite or clay. 13. A method for preemergence control of weed which comprises treating the area to be controlled with an effective amount of a composition comprising a pyrazole compound having the general formulaEMI21.1 wherein R1 is chloromethyl, chloroethyl, hydroxymethyl, methoxymethyl, ethoxymethyl, phenoxymethyl, or benzoyloxymethyl R2 is cyclohexyl, phenyl, or phenyl substituted with fluorine, chlorine, bromine or meThyl, provided that such substituents are not in the para position and K2 is not 3,4 dialkylphenyl or 3,4 dichlorophenyl This C1 C2 alkyl, or propargyl R4 is hydrogen or C1 C2 alkyl and Y is oxygen, and a carrier therefor. 14. The method according to claim 13 wherein the pyrazole compound is selected from the group consisting of methyl 1 hydroxy methyl 3 or 5 methyl 5 or 3 phenyl 1 H pyrazole 4carboxylate methyl 3 or 5 3 fluorophenyl 1 hydroxymethyl 5 or 3 methyi l H pyrazole 4 carboxylate methyl l Hydroxy methyl 3 or 5 methyl 5 or 3 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 1 11 py razole 4 carboxylate or mixtures thereof. 15. A method for the postemergence control of weeds which comprises treating the area to be controlled with an effective amount of a composition having the structural formula EMI22.1 wherein R1 is C1 C4 haloalkyl or ROR5, wherein R is C1 C2 alkylene or C2 alkylidene and R5 is hydrogen, C1 C4 alkyl, C2 C5 alkanoyl, aroyl, C8 C10 aralkanoyl, C7 Cg aralkyl, phenyl, or phenyl substituted with C1 C4 alkyl, C1 C4 alkoxy, trihalomethyl, hydroxy, cyano or nitro or benzoyl substituted with halogen, C alkyl, C1 C4 alkoxy, trihalomethyl, hydroxy, gano or nitro 1 C4 C1 C4 R is C1 C4 alkyl, C5 C6 cycloalkyl, C7 Cg aralkyl, C7 Cg alkaryl, phenyl, naphthyl or a 5 or 6 membered heterocyclic group containing oxygen, sulfur or nitrogen, or R2 is phenyl substituted with halogen, trihalomethyl, C1 C4 alkoxy, hydroxy or cyano Y is oxygen or sulfur, R3 is C1 C4 alkyl, C2 C4 alkenyl, C3 C4 alkynyl, C2 C6 alkoxyalkyl or C2 C6 alkylthioalkyl R4 is hydro 2 gen, C1 C4 alkyl or trihalomethyl provided that R is not 3,4 dialkylphenyl or 3,4 dihalophenyl. 16. The method according to daim 15 wherein the pyrazole compound is Methyl 1 hydroxymethyl 3 or 5 methyl 5 or 3 3 methylphenyl 1 H Pyrazole 4 carboxylate Methyl 3 or 5 3 fluorophenyl 1 hydroxymethyl S or 3 methyl 1 H Pyrazole 4 car boxylate Methyl 1 hydroxmethyl 3 or 5 methyl 5 or 3 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 1 H Pyrazole 4 carboxylate Methyl 3 or 5 2 fluorophenyl 1 hydroxymethyl 5 or 3 methyl 1 H Pyrazole 4 carboxylate Methyl 1 hydroxymethyl 3 or 5 2 furanyl 5 or 3 methyl 1 H Pyrazole 4 carboxylate Methyl l hydroxymethyl 3 or 5 methyl 5 or 3 2 methylphenyl 1 H Pyrazole 4 carboxylate 2 Propenyl 1 hydroxymethyl 3 or 5 methyl S or 3 phenyl 1 H Pyrazole 4 carboxylate 2 Propynyl 1 hydroxymethyl 3 or 5 methyl S or 3 phenyl 1 H Pyrazole 4 carboxylate Methyl 3 or 5 cyclohexyl l hydroxymethyl 5 or 3 me hyl 1 H Pyrazole 4 carboxylate Methyl 3 or 5 ethyl 1 hydroxymethyl 5 or 3 phenyl 1 H pyrazole 4 carboxylate Methyl 1 chloromethyl 3 or 5 methyl 5 or 3 3 methylphenyl 1 H Pyrazole 4 carboxylate Methyl 1 hydroxymethyl 3 or 5 methyl 5 or 3 phenyl 1 H pyrazole 4 carboxylate Methyl 1 acetyloxy methyl 3 or S methyl 5 or 3 phenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxylate or mixtures Thereof. 17. The method of claims 14 or 15 wherein the pyrazole compound is impregnated on a finely divided, powdered or granular carrier or mixture thereof. 18. The method of claim 16 wherein the carrier is selected from the group consisting of attapulgite clay, sand, vermiculite, corn cobs, activated charcoal or mixtures Thereof. 19. The method of claim 16 wherein surface active or despersing agents are added and the carrier is of a mineral silicate in powdered form. 20. The method of claim 18 wherein the mineral silicate is mica, talc, pyrophyllite or clay.

## Description
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION It is known that certain pyrazole carboxylates are effective as herbicides. For example U. S. Patent No. 4,116,673 teaches phenyl substituted pyrazole 4 carboxylates, wherein the 1 position is hydrogen or alkyl substituted, as herbicides. German Patent No.29 20 933 teaches the use of 3 aryl 5 methylpyrazole 4 carboxylates as herbicides The substituent in the 1 position in these compounds may be hydrogen, certain alkanoyl, alkoxycarboyl or chlorophenoxycarbonyl. U.S. Patent No. 4,260,775 teaches pyrazole derivatives having an amino group in the 3 or 5 position as herbicides. Bastide et al teach the preparation of certain 3 aryl 5methyl and 5 aryl 3 methyl pyrazole 4 carboxylates where the substituent on the 1 position is hydrogen see Cycloaddition ofDiazoalkanes Onto Disubstituted Alkenes and Alkynes , Tetrahedron, 30, 3355 3363 Pergamon Press, 1974, Great Britain. Herbicidal activity is not taught for the composition. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION It has been surprisingly found that pyrazoles of the general formula EMI1.1 wherein R1 is C1 C4 haloalkyl or ROR5, wherein R is C1 C2 alkyl ene or C2 alkylidene and R is hydrogen, C1 C4 alkyl, C2 Ct alkanoyl, aroyl, C8 C10 aralkanoyl, 07 C9 aralkyl, phenyl, or phenyl substituted with C1 C4 alkyl, C1 C4 alkoxy, trihalomethyl, hydroxy, cyano or nitro or benzoyl substituted with halogen, C C4 alkyl, C1 C4 alkoxy, trihalomethyl, hydroxy, cyano or nitro R is C1 C4 alkyl, C5 C6 cycloalkyl, C7 Cg aralkyl, C7 Cg alkaryl, phenyl, naphthyl or a 5 or 6 membered heterocyclic group containing oxygen, sulfur or nitrogen, or R2 is phenyl substituted with halogen, trihalomethyl, C1 C4 alkoxy, hydroxy or cyano Yis oxygen or sulfur, R3 is C1 C4 alkyl, C2 C4 alkenyl, C3 C4 alkynyl, C2 C6 alkoxyalkyl or C2 C6 alkylthioalkyl R4 is hydrogen C1 C4 alkyl or trihaIomethyl provided that R2 is not 3,4 dialkylphenyl or 3,4 dihalophenyl, are useful as herbicides. DETAILED DESCRIPTION This invention relates to certain pyrazoles useful as herbicides. In particular these inventions relate to pyrazoles having the general formula EMI2.1 wherein R1 is CL C4 haloalkyl or Row , wherein R is C1 C2 alkyl ene or C2 alkylidene and R5 is hydrogen, C1 C4 alkyl, C2 C5 alkanoyl, aroyl, C8 C10 aralkanoyl, C7 C9 aralkyl, phenyl, or phenyl substituted with C1 C4 alkyl, C1 C4 alkoxy, trihalomethyl, hydroxy, cyano or nitro or benzoyl substituted with halogen, C C4 alkyl, C1 C4 alkoxy, trihalomethyl, hydroxy, gano or nitro R is C1 C4 alkyl, C5 C6 cycloalkyl, C7 Cg aralkyl, C7 Cg alkaryl, phenyl, naphthyl or a 5 or 6 membered heterocyclic group con taining oxygen, sulfur or nitrogen, or R2 is phenyl substituted with halogen, trihalomethyl, C1 C4 alkoxy, hydroxy or cyano Y is oxygen or sulfur, R3 is C1 C4 alkyl, C2 C4 alkenyl, C3 C4 alkynyl, C2 C6 alkoxyalkyl or C2 C6 alkylthioalkyl R4 is hydro gen, C1 C4 alkyl or trihalomethyl provided that R2 is not 3,4 dialkylphenyl or 3,4 dihalophenyl. R is preferably methylene. The pyrazole compounds of the invention may be used for the control of various grasses and broadleaved weeds including pig weed Amaranthus retroflexus L. , jimsonweed Datura stramonium L. barnyardgrass Echinochloa crusgali L. Beauv. , and green foxtail Setaria viridis L. Beauv. Application may be in aqueous solutions or suspensions which may be sprayed onto the weed foliage or thc soil surface prior to weed and crop emergence and before or after the crop seed is sown. The compounds of this invention may also be applied by broadcasting o a granular formulation prior to weed and crop emergence. Compounds of this invention may be added as a tank mix to other herbicide solutions so that the number of different weed species controlled in a single application will be increased. The formulations of the compounds of this invention can also include other herbicides so that the spectrum of weeds controlled by spray or granular application may be broadened. The procedures for using the present substituted pyrazoles of this invention as herbicides can be in accordance with conventional agricultural practice. The chemicals are ordinarily applied as formulations containing a carrier and or surface active agent. The formulation can contain one or more of an effective amount of the described substituted pyrazoleS if desired other active herbicides may be included in the formulation as well. Thus, the pyrazole compounds can be impregnated on finely divided or granular inorganic or organic carriers such as attapulgite clay, sand, vermiculite, corn cobs, activated carbon or other granular carriers known to the art. The impregnated granules can then be spread on the soil. Furthermore, the pyrazole compounds can be formulated as a wettable powder by grinding it into a fine powder and mixing with an inactive powdered carrier to which a surface active and or dispersing agent has been added. Typical powdered solid carriers are the various mineral silicates, e.mica, talc, pyrophyllite and clays. The wettable powder may then be dispersed in. water and sprayed on the soil surface or weeds.Similarly, an emulsifiable concentrate may be prepared by dissolving the chemical in a solvent such as benzene, toluene, or other aliphatic or aromatic hydrocarbons to which a surface active dispersing agent has been added The emulsifiable concentrate may then be dispersed in water and applied by spraying. Suitable surface active agents are well known to those skilled in the art and reference may be had to McCutcheon s Detergents and Emulsifiers, 1980,Allured Publishing Corp., Ridgewood, New Jersey or Hoffman et al. U.S. patents 2,614,916, cols. 2 to 4 and 2,547,724 cols. 3 and 4, for examples of appropriate surface active agents which patents are incorporated herein by reference. The concentration of active compound in the formulation may vary widely, e.g., from 1 to 95 .For use as a preemergence herbicide, the compound is applied in a carrier to soil which contains weed and crop seed either to the surface of the soil or incorporated into the upper 2.5 to 7.6 cm of soil The compounds of the present invention are especially active as postemergence herbicides. When used as a postemergence herbicide, the compound is applied in a carrier to the foliage of plants to be controlled. These compounds are most active when applied to dicotyledenous weeds less than 5 cm tall and monocotyledenous weeds less than 12 cm tall. The most suitable rate of application in any given case will depend on such factors as soil type, soil pH, soil organic matter content, the quantity and intensity of rainfall before and after treatment, the air and soil temperature, light intensity, light duration per day, plant size at time of treatment, and plant species.All of these factors have an influence on the efficiency of the chemicals for use as herbicides. The rate of application can range from 0.5 to 12 kg per hectare preferably treatment is at about 1 to 6 kg ha. The advantages of the novel herbicides of this invention may be more readily appreciated by reference to the following examples EXAMPLE 1Preparation of Methyl 1 hydroxmethyl 3 or 5 methyl S or 3 phenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxylate. A mixture of 500 g 2.31 m of methyl 3 or 5 methyl 5 or 3 phenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxylate and 67.0 2.3 m of paraformaldehyde in 2.0 liters of dichloromethane was stirred at room temperature for 64 hours and refluxed for 8 hours. An additional 70.0 g 2.33 m of paraformaldehyde was added and the mixture was stirred at room temperature 56 hours and refluxed 16 hours. The mixture was filtered, and the solvent was distilled from the filtrate at reduced pressure leaving an oil that was crystallized from ethyl acetate hexane mixtures. Filtration afforded 445 g of the title compound, m.p. 94 96oC. Analysis C,H,N Calculated 63.49 5.73 11.38. Found 63.45 5.67 11,24. EXAMPLE 2Preparation of Methyl 1 chloromethyl 3 or 5 methyl 5 or 3 phenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxylate. A mixture of 50 g 0.23 mol of methyl 3 or 5 methyl 5 or 3 phenyl 1 H pyrazole 4 carboxylate, 28 g 0.93 mol of paraformaldehyde and about 0.5 g of p toluenesulfonic acid in 300 ml of dichloromethane was stirred for two days, during which it was heated under reflux for 12 hr. The mixture was filtered and 39 ml 28 g, 0.28 mol of triethylaniine added to the filtrate. The resulting solution was cooled to less than 100C and treated dropwise with stirring with a solution of 23 ml 37 g, 0.31 mol of thionyl chloride in 55 ml of dichloromethane. The addition was completed in 1.5 hr.and the stirring continued for 1 hr. at less than 100C and one day at room temperature. The reaction mixture was then washed with water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent evaporated. The residue was warmed with toluene, chilled and the title compound, 32 g, m.p. 166 168 C, collected by filtration.Analysis C,U,N Calculated 58.98 4.95 10.57 Found 58.98 4.90 10.23 EXAMPLE 3Preparation of Methyl 1 2 hydroxvethyl 5 methyl 3 phenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxylate. Powdered sodium hydroxide, 28 g 0.70 m was added portionwise to a well stirred mixture of 80 g 0.68 m of methyl acetoacetate and 300 ml CH2Cl2 while the mixture was cooled to less than 100C.The mixture was stirred in the cold for 6 hours and allowed to stand overnight at room temperature. The mixture was stirred and cooled to less than 100C, and 97 g 0.68 m of benzoyl chloride was added at a rate such that the temperature of the mixture did not exceed 100 C. After the addition was complete the mixture was stirred one hour in the cold and overnight at room temperature.The liquid phase, which was decanted from the salt which had formed, was stirred and cooled to less than 100C and 200 ml acetic acid was added. To the cold solution was added 51.8 g 0.68 m of 2 hydroxyethyl hydrazine, dropwise. The mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature. The mixture was washed twice with water, twice with dilute sodium bicarbonate and twice again with water. The organic phase was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, and the solvent was distilled off at reduced pressure leaving an orange oil that crystallized on standing. Recrystallization from an ethyl acetate hexanes mixture gave 17.1 g of the title product, m.p. 79 800C.Analysis C,H,N Calculated 64.60 6.20 10.76. Found 64.94 6.25 10.83. EXAMPLE 4Preparation of Methyl 1 2 chloroethyl 5 methyl 3 phenyl lH pyrazole 4 carhoxylate . To cold ca.lOtC solution of 5.5 g 0.021 m of product of Example 3 and 2.5 g .025 m of triethylamine in 50 ml CH2C12 was added 3.0 g .025 m of Thionyl chloride, dropwise. After the addition, the mixture was stirred overnight at ambient temperature. The resulting brown solution was filtered, and the filtrate was washed with water. The organic phase was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, and the solvent was distilled off at reduced pressure leaving an oil which was determined to be a mixture of Example 3 product and the above title compound by means of NMR spectroscopy. The oil was taken up again in 50 ml CH2Cl2 and treated as above with 2.5 g triethylamine of 3.0 g of thionyl chloride.After aqueous work up, 3.2 g of title product was obtained as a dark brown solid, m.p. 91 930C.Analysis C,H,N Calculated 60.32 5.42 10.04 Found 60.35 5.33 9.94 EXAMPLE 5Preparation of Methyl 1 f2 acetyloxy ethyl 5 methyl 3 phenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxyiate . To a cold ca.100C solution of 5.5 g 0.021 m of the pyrazole ofExample 3 and 2.5 g 0.025 m of triethylamine in 100 ml of toluene was added 2.0 g 0.025 m of acetyl chloride, dropwise. After the addition, the mixture was stirred 4 hours at ambient temperature and allowed to stand overnight. The triethylamine hydrochloride, which precipitated, was removed by filtration, and the toluene was distilled off at reduced pressure leaving a colorless oil which solidified on standing. Recrystallization of the product from an ethyl acetate hexanes mixture afforded 4.9 g of the title compound, m.p. 78 800C. Analysis C,H,N Calculated 63.56 6.00 9.27. Found 63.79 6.24 9.02. 63.60 5.95 8.99. EXAMPLE 6Preparation of Methyl 1 methoxymethyl 3 or 5 methyl S or 3 ph enyl 1H pyrazol e 4 carboxylateMethyl 1 chioromethyl 3 or 5 methyl 5 or 3 phenyl 1 H pyrazole 4 carboxylate 10.0 g, 0.036 mol was added to a solution of sodium methoxide in methanol 1.5 g of sodium in 60 ml of methanol, prepared under a nitrogen atmosphere and the mixture heated to 600 with stirring for 3 hr. After the mixture had cooled, it was taken up in dichloromethane 200 ml and washed with water. The organic phase was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and evaporated under reduces pressure to give 8.2 g of the title compound, m.p. 92 940C.Analysis C,H,N Calculated 64.40 6.20 10.76. Found 64.62 6.24 11.08. EXAMPLE 7Preparation of Methyl 1 acetyloxv methyli 3 or 5 mathyl 5 or 3 phenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxylate A stirred mixture of 5.0 g 0.020 mol of methyl 1 hydroxy methyl 3 or 5 methyl 5 or 3 phenyl l H pyrazole 4 carboxylate and 2.4 g 0.024 mol of triethylamine in toluene ca 100 ml was treated dropwise at less than 10 C with 1.9 g 0.024 mol of acetyl chloride. The mixture was left stirring overnight at room temperature, then the solids were filtered off and the solvent evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue crystallized on standing.Recrystallization from ethyl acetate hexane gave 4.0 g of the title compound, m.p. 91 940C.Analysis C,H,N Calculated 62.49, 5.59 9.72 Found 61.56 6.02 9.42 61.77 6.16 9.00According to the general teaching of the above examples the following additional compounds were prepared they are identified inTable 1. TABLE IExample Helting Point No. Compound C 8. Methyl 3 or 5 2 chloro phenyl 1 hydroxymethyl3 5 or 3 methyl 111 Pyrazole 4 carboxylate . 98 101 9. Methyl l hydroxymethyl 3 or 5 methyl 5 or 3 3 methylphenyl lH Pyrazole 4 carboxylate 72 75 10. Methyl 3 or 5 3 fluorophenyl l hydroxymethyl 5 or 3 methyl lH Pyrazole 4 carboxylate 82 84 11.Methyl l hydroxmethyl 3 or 5 methyl 5 or 3 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 1H Pyrazole 4 carboxylate 99 101 12. Methyl 3 or 5 2 fluorophenyl 1 hydroxymethyl 5 or 3 methyl lH Pyra ole 4 carboxylate 91 93 13. 1,1 Dimethylethyl 1 hydroxymethyl 3 or 5 methyl 5 or 3 phenyl 1H Pyrazole 4 carboxylate Oil TABLE I continued Example Melting Point No. Compound C 14. Methyl l hydroxymethyl 3 or 5 2 furanyl 5 or 3 methyl 1H Pyrazole 4 carboxylate 104 111 15. Ethyl l hydroxymethyl 3 or S phenyl S or 3 propyl lH Pyrazole 4 carboxylate 61 16.Methyl l hydroxymethyl 3 or 5 methyl 5 or 3 2 methylphenyl 1H Pyrazole 4 carboxylate Oil 17. Methyl 1 hydroxymethyl 3 or 5 phenyl lH pyrazole 4 ca rboxylate 97 107 18. 2 Propenyl l hydroxymethyl 3 or 5 methyl S or 3 phenyl 1H Pyrazole 4 carboxylate 88 90 19. 2 Propynyl 1 hydroxymethyl 3 or 5 methyl 5 or 3 phenyl 1H Pyrazole 4 carboxylate 86 88 20. Methyl l benzoyloxy methyl 3 or 5 methyl 5 or 3 phenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxylate 69 71 21. Methyl 3 or 5 cyclohexyl 1 hydroxymethyl 5 or 3 methyl lH Pyrazole 4 carboxylate 110 112 22.Methyl 1 hydroxymethyl 3 or 5 methyl 5 or 3 4 methylphenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxylate 94 97 23. Methyl 3 or 5 ethyl 1 hydroxymethyl 5 or 3 phenyl lH pyrazole 4 carboxylate 97 98 24. Methyl 1 thydroxymethyl 3 or 5 2 methoxyphenyl 5 or 3 methyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxylate 123 125 25. l Methylpropyl 1 hydroxymethyl 3 or 5 methyl 5 or 3 methyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxylate Oil 26. 2 Ethoxyethyl 1 hydroxymethyl 3 or 5 methyl 5 or 3 phenyl 1 H apyrazole 4 carboxylate Oil 27. Methyl i hydroxymethyl 3 or 5 phenyl S or 3 propyl lH pyrazole 4 carboxylate 93 94 28.Methyl 3 or 5 2 bromophenyl 1 hydroxymethyl S or 3 methyl lH pyrazole 4 carboxylate 90 98 29. Methyl 3 or 5 4 bromophenyl 1 hydroxymethyl 5 or 3 methyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxylate 111 120 30. Methyl 3 or 5 3 bromophenyl 1 hydroxymethyl S or 3 methyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxylate 96 102 TABLE I continued Example Melting Point No. Compound OC 31. Methyl 1 hydroxymethyl 3 or 5 methyl 5 or 3 1 naphthalenyl lH pyrazole 4 carboxylate 97 107 32. Methyl 3 or 5 methyl 1 phenoxymethyl 5 or 3 phenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxylate 58 61 33.Ethyl l ethoxymethyl 3 or 5 methyl 5 or 3 3 methylphenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxylate Oil 34. Methyl 3 or 5 4 chlorophenyl l hydroxymethyl 5 or 3 methyl 1H Pyrazole 4 carboxylate 113 116 35. Methyl l chloromethyl 3 or 5 methyl 5 or 3 3 methylphenyl 1H Pyrazole 4 ca rboxylate 127 129 EXAMPLE 36 To illustrate effectiveness of the described pyrazole derivatives as preemergence herbicides, 600 mg chemical was dissolved in 10 ml organic solvent e.g., acetone to which 30 mg conventional emulsifying agent e.g., ethoxylated sorbitan monolaurate Tween 20 was added. The solution was diluted to 100 ml with distilled water.Twenty milliliters of this 6000 ppm solution was diluted to 250 ppm with distilled water. The chemical was applied at the rate of 11.2 kg ha kilograms per hectare by drenching 46 ml of the 250 ppm solution on the surface of soil in 11.4 cm diameter plastic pots which had been sown with the following weed seeds velvetleaf Abutilon theophiasti Medic. jimsonweed Datura stramonium L. , tall morningglory Ipomea purpurea L. Roth , switch grass Panicum virgatum L. , barnyardgrass Echinochloa crusgalli L. Beauv. and green foxtail Setaria viridis L. Beauv . The percent control of the weeds compared to untreated checks was determined two weeks after treatment. Table II shows the results with the preemergence herbicides of the invention prepared in accordance with the above samples. EXAMPLE 37 To illustrate effectiveness of the described pyrazole derivatives as postemergence herbicides, the 6000 ppm solution described under Example 36 was atomized with a number 152 DeVilbiss sprayer, wetting the foliage to the drip point. The weeds, which are the same species as described under Example 36, were treated six days after emergence. The percent control was evaluated two weeks after treatment. Table III shows the results with the postemergence herbicides of the invention. EXAMPLE 38 To illustrate efficacy at 11.2 kg ha preemergence, 250 ppm solutions were drenched onto the soil surface at the rate of 80 ml per 15.2 cm diameter pot. A rate of 1.12 kg ha required 25 ppm.The seeds of several weed species were sown into the soil of each pot prior to chemical application. The percent control of weeds compared to untreated checks was determined two weeks after emergence. Table IV shows the results of efficacy tests at rates of 11 2 and 1.12 kg ha. EXAMPLE 39 To illustrate efficacy postemergence at rates less than 6000 ppm, the solutions described in Example 36 were diluted to 4000, 2000, 1000, 500, 250 and 125 ppm with distilled water and applied to the plant foliage as described in Example 2. TABLE V illustrates the results of postemergence application at rates lower than 6000 ppm. EXAMPLE 40 Selectivity of a herbicide is desirable since it allows control of weeds growing among desirable crop plants. To illustrate the usefulness of the compounds of this invention as selective postemergence herbicides, 400 mg chemical was dissolved in 10 ml organic solvent such as acetone containing 25 mg conventional emulsifying agent e. g., ethoxylated sorbitan monolaurate Tween 20 trademark and diluted to 50 ml with distilled water. This solution was sprayed at the rate of 2.24 kg active in 280 liters of water per hectare onto the foliage of plants growing in 15 x 20 flats.Lower rates were achieved by dilution with distilled water. For example, the solution for 2.24 kg ha diluted 50 with water pro duced the solution for 1.12 kg ha. The percent weed control and crop injury were evaluated three weeks after treatment. TABLE VI illustrates the usefulness of these chemicals as selective postemer gence herbicides. TABLE II PERCENT WEED CONTROL AT 11.2 kg ha, PREEMERGENCE Percent Weed Control WildExample Velvet Jimson Morning Barnyard Switch Green No. Leaf Weed Glory Grass Grass Foxtail 1 100 50 80 100 90 100 2 100 75 100 100 100 100 4 0 0 0 0 0 50 6 100 0 lOp 80 35 100 7 100 75 100 100 95 100 8 90 0 60 0 0 0 9 100 0 0 90 10 40 10 100 45 100 100 85 90 11 100 0 80 20 25 95 12 95 0 0 90 80 95 16 100 25 50 80 90 75 19 50 100 0 100 100 100 20 100 . 54 100 100 95 100 21 100 95 100 100 100 80 23 90 0 100 100 100 100 33 0 0 0 95 0 65 35 50 0 65 100 100 100 TABLE III PERCENT WEED CONTROL AT 6000 PPM, POSTEMERGEN Percent Weed Control WildExample Velvet Jimson Morning Barnyard Switch Green No. Leaf Weed Glory Grass Grass Foxtail 1 100 5 100 100 15 75 2 30 80 100 60 90 85 3 5 5 25 40 0 20 4 0 0 45 0 0 5 5 0 0 5 5 0 5 6 95 0 100 30 0 10 7 75 25 100 90 100 100 8 70 25 70 30 0 30 9 100 35 100 100 100 95 10 100 90 100 100 90 100 11 100 50 100 100 35 95 12 100 40 100 100 70 85 13 0 0 5 25 0 15 14 100 5 95 90 15 90 15 5 5 30 45 0 15 16 95 90 100 90 100 100 18 10 95 100 100 80 100 19 100 100 100 90 100 100 20 20 10 100 90 100 100 21 100 100 100 100 100 100 TABLE III Continued PERCENT WEED CONTROL AT 6000 PPM, POSThMERGENCE Percent Weed Control Wild Example Velvet Jimson Morning Barnyard Switch Green No. Leaf Weed Glory Grass Grass Foxtail 22 45 5 100 90 0 75 23 100 75 100 95 50 80 24 5 0 40 15 0 5 25 0 0 0 15 0 5 26 5 0 20 40 100 100 27 5 5 35 45 100 100 33 5 0 95 60 100 100 34 25 50 100 80 o 90 35 100 80 100 85 90 70 TABLE IV PREEMERGENCE WEED CONTROL Percent Weed Control or Crop Injury Example Rate Jimson Pig Morning Wild Green Barnyard No. Kg Ha Weed Weed Glory Oats Foxtail Grass 1 11.2 100 100 100 95 100 100 1.12 40 100 20 30 95 50 TABLE V POSTEMERGENCE WEED CONTROL Percent Weed Control or Crop InjuryExample Rate Jimson Pig Morning Wild Green No.PPM Weed Weed Glory Oats Foxtail 1 1000 75 100 90 90 100 500 0 20 50 50 100 250 0 20 50 50 100 22 4000 60 60 90 10 50 2000 0 50 20 0 20 1000 0 0 10 0 10 34 4000 30 100 100 30 100 2000 25 100 35 25 100 1000 10 100 20 20 100Example Rate Barnyard Soy No. PPM Grass Corn bean Rice Cotton 1 1000 100 100 95 60 10 500 100 10 10 10 5 250 80 10 10 10 10 22 4000 90 30 15 20 0 2000 20 10 20 0 1000 20 10 10 0 34 4000 85 30 10 20 0 2000 75 30 10 20 0 1000 50 10 20 0 TABLE VI POSTEMERGENCE SELECTIVITY TEST Percent Weed Control or Crop InjuryExample Rate Sun No.Kg Ha Wheat Barley Oats Flower 1 2.24 35 20 70 0 1.12 25 0 30 0 0.28 0 0 0 0Example Rate Sugar Soy No. Kg ha beet Corn Cotton bean 1 2.24 100 0 100 60 1.12 100 0 100 15 0.28 100 0 70 0Example Rate Cow Pinto No. Kg Ha Sorghum Pea Beans 1 2.24 0 70 80 1.12 0 60 0 0.28 0 0 0Example Rate No. Kg Ha Rice Cucumber Alfalfa Tomato 1 2.24 70 100 100 100 1.12 70 100 100 50 0.28 0 100 100 50Example Rate Velvet Sickle Morning No Kg Ha Leaf Pod Glory 1 2.24 95 75 85 1.12 95 75 85 0.28 90 50 70 It is evident from the preceding examples that the preferred pyrazole compounds for use as preemergent herbicides are the corn pounds of Examples 1, 10 and 11.The preferred pyrozoles for use as post emergence herbicides are the compounds of Examples 1, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14 and 18. Additional pyrazole 4 carboxylates which have herbicidal activity and are within the scope of the invention are Methyl r butoxymethyl 3 or 5 methyl 5 or 3 phenyl 1 H pyrazole 4 car boxylate S methyl 1 1 oxybutoxy methyl 3 or 5 methyl 5 or 3 phenyl 1 H pyrazole 4 carbothioate 2 methylthio ethyl 1 1 oxo 2 phenylethoxy 3 or 5 methyl 5 or 3 phenyl 1 H pyrazole 4 carboxylate Methyl 1 hydroxymethyl 3 or 5 phenyl 5 or 3 trifluoromethyl 1 H pyrazole 4 carboxylate Methyl 1 t4 1,1 di methylethyl benzoyl 1 oxy methyl 1 3 or 5 methyl 5 or 3 phenylmethyl 1 H pyrazole 4 carboxylate Methyl 3 or 5 3 butylphenyl 5 or 3 methyl 1 4 propoxybenzoyl oxy 1methyl 1 H pyrazole 4 carboxylate Methyl 3 ot 5 methyl 5 or 3 3 thienyl l 3 tri fluoromethyl b e nzoyl 1 oxy methyl 1 H pyrazole 4 carboxylate Methyl 2 hydroxybenzoyl oxy3methyl3 3 or 5 methyl 5 or 3 4 mor pholinyl l H pyrazole 4 carboxylate Methyl 1 l 3 cyanobenzoyl oxy Methyl 1 3 or 5 3 cyanophenyl 5 or 3 methyl l H pyrazole 4carboxylate Methyl 3 or 5 3 butoxyphenyl 5 or 3 methyl l I 4 nitrobenzoyl oxy methyll I H pyrazole 4 carboxylate Methyl 1 hydroxymethyl 3 or 5 hydroxyph enyl 5 or 3 methyl 1H pyra zole 4 carboxylate Methyl 1 4 hydroxyphenoxy methyl 3 or 5 methyl 5 or 3 phenyl 1 H pyrazole 4 carboxylate Methyl 1 4 cyanophenoxy methyl 3 or 5 methyl 5 or 3 phenyl 1H pyrazole 4 carboxylate Methyl 3 or 5 methyl 5 or 3 phenyl 1 113 trifluoro methyl phenoxy 1 mthyl pyrazole 4 carboxylate.