# Procedure for locking the torsion in long shafts and device which employs said procedure.

## Abstract
A procedure for locking the torsion of shafts in long spinning frames, said procedure comprising start up of the spinning frame with the device 20 for locking torsion connected up the disconnecting of said devices 20 after a pre set time long enough to cover the initial transient period re connection of the device 20 for a long enough time before the spinning frame is stopped the device 20 is kept connected up while the spinning frame remains halted so as to ensure the proper working of said spinning frame when it is next started up again and so as to avoid phase displacement of the cylinders. The invention also concerns the device 20 for carrying out said procedure and for locking the torsion of the shafts in long spinning frames, said device 20 being characterized by including in cooperation and coordination transmission means 16 connected rigidly to a powered shaft 10 of the spinning frame. drivable coupling means 21 connected to said trans mission means 16 and cooperating temporarily with at least one other shaft 11 of the spinning frame, and control means 22 able to operate said drivable cou pling means 21 so as to suit the speed of said powered shaft 10 .

## Claims
CLAIMS I. Procedure for locking the torsion of shafts in long spinning frames, said procedure being characterized by tn cluding the following phases start up of the frame with the device 20 for locking torsion connected up the disconnecting of said device 20 for locking torsion. after a pre set long enough time T1 re connection of the device 20 for locking torsion for. a long enough time T2 before the spinning frame is stop ped the device 20 for locking torsion is kept connected up while the spinning frame is halted so as to ensure the pr.o per working of said frame when it is next started up onca again and so as to avoid phase displacement of the cylin . ders. . 2. Procedure as in Claim I, characterized by the fact that the disconnecting of the device 20 for locking tor . simon takes place after a time T1 long enough to cover the. initial transient period. . 3. procedure as in Claims I 2, characterized by the fact that the re connection of the device 20 for locking. torsion lasts for a period T2 before the stopping of the machine TF long enough to cover the transient stopping per iod. 4. Device 20 to carry out said procedure and the lock . ing of torsion of the shafts in long spinning frames, char . acterized by comprising in cooperation and coordination . transmission means 16 connected rapidly to a shaft 10 . . of the spinning frame, . drivable coupling means 21 connected to said transmissm ion means Is and cooperating temporarily with at least. one other shaft II of the spinning frame, and control means 22 able to actuate said drivable coupling. means 21 so as to suit the speed of said shaft JO . 5. Device 20 for locking torsion as in Claim 4, charr . acterized by the fact that said shaft 10 is the powered shaft of the spinning frame. 6. Device 20 for locking torsion as in Claims 4 5,. characterized by the fact that said drivable coupling means. 21 consist of an electrically operated solenoid clutch 121 . 7. Device 20 for locking torsion as in Claims 4 5,. characterized by the fact that said drivable coupling means. 21 consist of claw clutches operated by electromechanical. or electromagnetic means. 8. device 20 for locking torsion as in Claims 4 5,. characterized by the fact that said drivable coupling means. 21 consist of ratchet gears operated by electromechanical. or electromagnetic means. 9. Device 20 for locking torsion as in Claim 4 and in one or another of the Claims thereafter, characterized b.y . the fact that said control means 20 are connected to the .motor means I3 which drive the powered shaft IO of the spinning frame. 10. Procedure for locking the torsion of shafts in spin .ning frames, being substantially as described, shown and .claimed and for the purposes allowed. II. Device 20 for locking the torsion of shafts in long .spinning frames, being substantially as described, shown and .claimed and for the purposes allowed.

## Description
Pescrtptton of the invention entitled PROCEDURE FOR LOCKING THE TORSION IN LONG SHAFTS AND DEVICEWHICH EMPLOYS SAID PROCEDURE Shis invention concerns a procedure for locking the tor.sion in long shafts connected together mechanically the de . vice of the invention is applied advantageously, but not es . .sentially, to the shafts of long ring spinning frames. To be more exact, the invention has the purpose of preventing the relative movements of two or more shafts in only .one direction of rotation when said shafts are not bering ro .tated. The invention can be applied to one or more shafts which .are or are not parallel to each other. According to the invention the device can be fitted to.at least one end of a shaft located opposite to the end where the input of motion takes place. Moreover, the device of the invention can be fitted to shafts which are driven at their end or which are driven at.an intermediate position. The invention can be applied in particular, but not on Jy, to ring spinning frames and can be applied wherever oo n editions exist which can be related to or be likened to those of ring spinning frames. It is known that tn a ring spinning frame the device for drafting the roving consists not only of the organs able to exert pressure on the roving but also of two or more shafts which have a small diameter in relation to their length and which in this case have to rotate at speeds different from each other but having a constant reciprocal ratio. Owing to the resisting moments acting on the shafts it happens that during the transient period of start up of the machine the shafts undergo a torsion which grows progressi vely the further it is from the zone of input of motion and the nearer it is to the opposite end zone. shivs torsion occurring in the shafts becomes consider able, above all in especially long machines. Since the resisting moments vary from one shaft to an other, it happens that the relative rotation that is, the rotation lag due to the torsion occurring between the zone of input of motion and the end zone or zones of one shaft is different from that of another shaft. Owing to this fact, when the resisting moments are lacking as happens when the. machine stops , the shafts, or cylinders as they are also called, stay still in the zone where the motive moment is applied but tend, at their other end zone, to recover the angle of torsion which has progressively built up as lag since the machine was started and which exists at the time. when the machine is halted. Such angles of torsion are not induced according to a. ratio the same as that existing between the speeds of rota motion of the shafts. thus, faulty drafting takes place in the phase of re covery of the torsion that is to say, during the phase of recovery of the induced torsion the end parts of the shafts or cylinders can cause faulty drafting and can also lead to the possibility of causing the breakage of yarns at once or when the machine is started up once more. Thts shortcoming. leads to a considerable burden of work for the machine oper natives and an evident lessening of output, yield and quality of the yard. So as to keep the ratio of the angles of rotat ion constant even at the end section of the cylinders, some solutions have been put forward, such as those shown in pat ents DE AS 26 41 434. DE AS 27 22 5.92, DE A.S 28 17 162, DE OS 29 30 327 and DE PS 94895. In those patents a system is developed which connects the end sections of the cylinders themselves with a system of ratios the same as that which transmits the torques in the zones of input of motion of the shafts or cylinders. Furthermore, it is envisaged in those inventions that the connection between the cylinders is continuous, that is to say, it is always working both when the machine is oper ating and also when the machine is stopped however, this does not take into account the fact that such a connection is not needed when the machine is running normally. According to experiments made we have established that in the long shafts used in modern ring spinning frames the relative distortion in the drafting xone take. place during the start up and stopping phases of the machine. R Deriments made have shown that it is important to eliminate the torsion related to the start up of the machine and also to prevent said shafts from recovering the induced torsion whenever the spinning frame is stopped for any rea son at all. according to the invention this purpose is fulfilled .by employing a rigid connection which only works during the .start up and stopping phases. The invention can also be applied where there are one .or more shafts. Advantages of this invention are the elimination of un necessary extra consumption of energy and of wear on the .gear wheels and on the device itself and also the suppres .sion of a possible source of unpleasant noise during the working cycle of the machine. This invention is displayed in a procedure for locking .the torsion of shafts in long spinning frames, said proced ure being characterized by comprising the following phases .. start up of the machine with the device connected up . the disconnecting of the device after a pre set time long enough to cover the initial transient period . recornection of the device for a long enough time before. the machine is stopped . the device is kept connected up during the period while the spinning frame is stopped so as to ensure the proper working of said frame when it is next started up again and so as to avoid phase displacement of the cylinders. Moreover, the invention is embodied in a device for carrying out said procedure and for locking the torsion of shafts of long spinning frames, said device being character .ized by including in cooperation and coordination . transmission means connected rigidly to a shaft of the spinning frame, . drivable coupling means connected to said transmission means and cooperating temporarily with at least one shaft of the spinning frame, and control means able to actuate said drivable coupling means so as to suit the speed of said shaft. Xn embodiment of the device of the invention ill be .described hereinafter, as a non restrictive example, with .the help of the tables, wherein .Fig.I gives a diagram of a spinning frame fitted with the device of the invention Flg.2 shows diagrammatically the working cycle of the spin ning frame and the transient periods of start up and stopping .Fig.3 shows the specific make up of the control means of the invention. With reference to Fig.I the spinning frame comprises .in its drafting unit three shafts numbered 10 drafting , .11 accompanying and 12 feeding which rotate at the res .pective angular speeds V1 , V2 and V3 transmitted to said .shafts with a constant ratio by the motor 13, which is con .nected here to the drive shaft IO with belts, gear wheels .or like connecting means. In particular, so as to obtain drafting of the yarn .said ratio has to correspond to the difference VI V2 and .is established by the ratios between the pairs of gear the els II3 110, IIO I4, 14 111, 111 15 and I5 II2, said gear wheels 14 and 15 being idler gear wheels, whereas the gear .wheels 111 112 are solidly fixed to the shafts II and 12 re. .spectlvelp. . As is known, each of said shafts 10, 11 and 12 cooper ..ates with its relative pressure roller 210, 211 and 212 re . .spectively. The device 20 of the invention is fitted to the spin .ning frame at the end of the latter opposite to the powered. .end thereof. Said device will be described with reference to the shafts IO and II since the shaft 12 can possibly be connect .ed to the other shafts by means of another device according. .to the invention. The device 20 of the invention comprises transmission means 16 rigidly fixed to a shaft of the spinning frame, in this case to the drive shaft IO said transmission means 16. consist here of a gear wheel 116 keyed onto said shaft 10 .and cooerating through a gear wheel 316 with another gear . wheel 216 keyed onto an idler shaft 311, whereby said shaft. .311 is equipped at its end with drivable coupling means 21 which connect said shaft 311 to the shaft II at least tempo rarely. Said coupling means 2I consist here of a solenoid clutch 121 that is actuated electrically, but could also con sist of suitable mechanical coupling means such as clutches, .cla7w clutches, ratchet gears or like means which can be act .uated with electromechanical or electromagnetic means or the .like. Furthermore, the device of the invention comDrises con .trol means 22 able to actuate said coupling means 21 to suit the steed of the shafts of the spinning frame, said control..means 22 being connected to the motor I3 of the spinning frame in this instance. The specific make up of the said control means 22 is shown diagrammatically in Fig.3. The control means 22 for starting and stopping the mot .or 13, and also the coupling means 21 receive the mains sup .ply or line supply current RI, which feeds the motor 13 as well, through a voltage transformer 82 having several outputs. Moreover, the electrical protection of said means 22 and 21 and of the motor 13 is ensured by magnetic thermal protective means 83 183 283 383 of a kno7nn type located in .series in the respective supply circuits. Further thermal protective means 84 are also pre arran .ged in the supply connections of said motor 13. To actuate said motor 13 it is enough to press the key .25, which is of a normally open type, so that the coil 85 of .the remote control switch 185 can be supplied. Said coil 85 makes the contacts 89 close so that the .motor 13 ts started. At the same time said coil 85 makes the contact 87 close, said contact 67 permitting said coil 85 to charge ttself, and also mares the contact 86 close so as to connect the ctrcuit 90 to the derived supply 86. In this wap the timer 92 can be supplied through the contact 91, which is of a normally closed type. Being fed, said timer 92 closes the contact 24 and thus enables the coil .93 to be fed. In its turn said coil 93 closes the self charge contact .94 and opens the contact 91 so as to start the timing cycle.for the opening of said contact 24 after a pre set time. Furthermore, the coil 93 closes the contact 97 of the circuit 95 so that the coupling means 21 are fed with current converted into direct current by the bridge rectifier 96. She stopping of the motor 13 and the disengagement of .the coupling means 21 can take place at the time T2 owing to ack of mains current or owing to the action of the relative protective devices, or can be obtained by pressing the push .button 23, which ts of a normally closed type. In fact, said push button 23, like the thermal protect .ive contact 96, is located in series with the coil 85 and is therefore able to cut off the supply thereto when it is open ed. In this way the contacts 69 can be opened so as to stop .the motor 13 and the contact 88 can be opened so as to cut off the supply to the coil 93. Being no longer fed, said coil 93 permits the contact QI to close and also enables the self charge contact 94 and .the contact 95 which feeds the coupling means 21, to open again. The final stooping of the spinning frame takes place at the time TF. Let us now see how the invention works. When the start er button 23 of the machine is pushed, the motor 13 of the spinning frame, together with the coupling means 21 cooperating with the shaft II, is started. After a given time T1 . fig.2 , which can be regulated with the timer 24, the coup .ling means 21 are disengaged. When the machine stops owing .to the button 25 being pushed or owing to lack of mains cur .rent or because of the action of the protective means inclu .ded in the circuit, the coupling means 21 are engaged at the time T2 and remain so engaged until the machine has been .started up once again. It is clear that the procedure of the invention elimin .ates the development of the relative torsion in the start up phase and also the recovery of any relative torsion cre .ated between the shafts IO and Ir, as said shafts IO and II. .are connected rigidly together during the initial transtent. period, in the phase of stopping the machine and during the .period when the machine is halted. We have described here a procedure for locking the tor .ston of the shafts in spinning frames, and also a preferent. ial embodiment of a device to carry out said procedure, but..other alternative embodiments are possible for a technician. .in this field without departing from the scope of the invent .ive idea of this invention.