# Process for de cyanoethylating blocked nucleotides.

## Abstract
A process for selectively removing a β cyanoethyl block ing group from the phosphate moiety of a nucleotide or poly nucleotide, which comprises treating said nucleotide or poly nucleotide with a primary amine having from 3 to 5 carbon at oms or diethylamine.

## Claims
Claims I. A process for selectively removing a ss cyanoethyl blocking group from the phosphate moiety of a nucleotide cr polynucleotide, which comprises treating said nucleotide or polynucleotide with a primary amine having from 3 to 5 carbon atoms or diethylamine. 2. A process according to claim 1, in which the removal of the ss cyanoethyl group is carried out a temperature of from 40C. to 30 C. 3. A process according to claim 1 or 2, in n which the removal cf the ss cyanoethyl group is carried out at room temperature. 4. A process according to any one of claims 1 to 3, in wnich the removal of the ss cyanoethyl group is carried out in the presence of an inert organic solvent. 5. A process according to any one of claims 1 to , in which the removal of the ss cyanoethyl group is carried out in the presence of pyridine. 6. A process according to any one of claims 1 to 5, in whion saia nucleotide or polynucleotide is treated with t butylamine. 7. A process according to any one of claims to 5, in wnich said nucleotide or polynucleotide is treated with sec. butylamine. 8. A process according to any one of claims 1 to 5, in which said nucleotide or polynucleotide is treated with n propylamine. 9. A process according to any one of claims i to 5, in which said nucleotide or polynucleotide is treated with diethylamine. 10. A process according to any one of claims 1 to 9 in which at least a tenfold excess on a molar basis of a primary amine having 3 to 5 carbon atoms or diethylamine is present.

## Description
Title PROCESS FOR DE CYANOETHYLATING BLOCKED NUCLEOTIDES This invention concerns a process for selectively removing a ss cyanoethyl blocking group from the phosphate moiety of a nucleotide or polynucleotide by treatment with a primary amine having 3 to 5 carbon atoms or diethylamine which is useful in the synthesis of oligonucleotides of defined sequences. With the advent of recombinant DNA methodology and especially in view of its evident commercial applicability, te ability to synthesize olig deoxyribc nucleotides of defined sequences has become increasingly important. As now is very well recognized, RNA and DNA are polynucleotides referred to as nucleic acids. The polynucleotides, in turn, are ccmposed of monomers nucleotides . A nucleotide is a phosphate ester of the N glycoside of a nitrogenous base and consists of a purine or a pyrimidine base, a pentose D ribose in RNA or 2 deoxy D ribose in DNA , and a phosphate group. Four nitrogenous bases are present in both DNA A and RNA. The four present in DNA are Adenine A Guanine G Thymine T Cytosine C EMI2.1 The nitrogenous bases in RNA differ from those in DNA only in that uracil U replaces thymine.Uracil U EMI3.1 The combination of a nitrogenous base at the point of the asterisk in the foregoing formulas with a ribose at its l position is called a ribcnucleoside D ribose or a deoxyribonucleoside 2 deoxy D ribose . The corresponding ribonucleotide or deoxyribonucleotide is produced by addition of a phosphate group at the 3 position of the ribose. The thus defined suitably blocked ribonucleo tide or deoxyribonucleotide represents the basic building block in the synthesis of RNA or DNA, respectively. A standard and highly attractive method for synthesizing RNA or DNA is known in the literature as the triester method . Using the synthesis of a polydeoxyribonucleotide as an example, the procedure in olives coupling a mononucleotide or oligonucleotide having a 3 phosphat diester with a mononucleoside, a blocked 3 hydroxy oligonucleotide, a mononucleotide, or an oligonucleotide having an available 5 hydroxyl group.This method can be represented schematically as follows EMI4.1 In the foregoing, 3 is a nitrogenous base selected from adenine, cytosine, guanine, and thymine, each of the first three having their reactive moieties blocked by suitable protecting groups R is a blocking group or the 5 hydroxyl R is a blocking group for the 3 hydroxyl cleavable under alkaline conditions or a croup of the formulaEMI4.2 ORand RÚ and Rê are selectively removable groups which block the reacted phosphate moiety. Additional discussicn of the triester method can be found in various publications including, cr example, Narang, S.A., hsiung, H.M., and Brousseau, R., Improved Phosphotriester Method for the Synthesis ofGene Fragments , Methods in Enzymology, Vol. 68,Academic Press, New York, New York, 1979 , pp. 90 98 and Narang, S.A., Brousseau, R., Hsiung, H.M., andMichniewicz, J.J., Chemical Synthesis of Deoxyoligonucleotides by the Modified Triester Method , Methods in Enzymology, Vol. 65, Academic Press, New York, NewYork, 1980 , pp. 610 620. The trlester method described above, of course, has been applied in coupling two oligonucleotides, an oligonucleotide and a mononucleotide, or, as specifically illustrated above, two mononucleotides. Whatever the entities, the reaction involves the coupling of an available 5 hydroxyl With a 3 phos phate diester group. Moreover, the reactant containing the available 5 hydroxyl can have a blocked terminal 3 phosphate or such can be lacking i.e., R3 s a 3 hydroxyl blocking group . The two reactants are coupled in he presence of a solvent, typically pyridine, and in the presence of a coupiing agent, for example, 2,4,6 trimehtylbenzenesulfonyl tetrazolide. Whatever the structure cf the particular nucleotide reactants, it is essential that the reactant having an available 5 hydroxyl group be fully blocked at the terminal 3 phosphate group if such is present.The group Rê appearing in the foregoing formulas represents a blocking group that completes protection of the terminal 3 phosphate group. If further coupling of te product polynucleotide at its 3 phosphate sit is intended, it is Important that the R2 group be one that 15 removable without disruption of other blocking groups on te molecule. Customarily, the Rê group of choice is sscyanoethyl, a group which is selectively removable under mild alkaline conditions. A highly preferred method for selectively removing a ss cyanoethyl group from a nucleotide or oligonucleotide uses anhydrous triethylamine pyridine. This method is reported inAdamiak, R.W., Barciszewska, M.Z., Biala, E., Grzeskowiak,K., nierzek, R., Kraszewski, A., Markiewicz, W.T., and Wiewiorowski, M., Nucleic Acids Research 3, 3397 3408 1976 , and Sood, A.K. and Narang, S.A. Nucleic AcidsResearch 4, 2757 2765 1977 .Although this method has been highly successful in achieving selective elimination of the ss cyanoethyl blocking group, it suffers from the fact that it is time consuming, taking 4 6 hours to complete see Sood et al., supra, p. 2758 . There has now been discovered a process for selectively removing a ss cyanoethyl blocking group from the phosphate moiety of a nuclectide or polynucleotide, which comprises treating said nucleotide or polynucleotide with a primary amine having from 3 to 5 carbon atoms or diethylamine. As noted, this invention is directea to a process for facilitating selective removal of a ss cyanoethyl blocking group from the phosphate moiety of a nucleotide or polynucleotide In any polynucleotide preparation, suitable blocking of otherwise reactive moierties is essential.thus, certain of the nitrogenous bases require blocking of their reactive amino groups. Typically, adenine and cytosine are benzoylated to protect their ree amino groups, and guanine customarily IS protected by an isobutyryl group. Thymine, since it has no free amino group, requires no protectIon. Of course, the fore going are only examples of suitable blocking groups.Any of a wide range of other blocking groups can be employed. The group R in the foregoing formulas represents a protecting group for the 5 hydroxyl moiety.Preferably, the group is labile under mildly acidic conditions. Examples of such groups are tetrahydro pyrenyl, 4 methoxytrityl, 4,4 dimethoxytrityl DMTr , and the like. 4,4 Dimethoxytrityl is readily removed in mild acid, for example, 28 benzenesulfonic acid, and represents a preferred protecting group for the 5 hydroxyl moiety. The triester method is so called because the coupled product is a phosphate triester. This, in turn, contemplates the use of a nucleotide reactant having a partially blocked 3 phosphate group. The group RÚ used herein is intended to refer to a group that completes a suitable partial block. This group preferably is one that is removable under alkaline conditions. Examples of suitable groups are phenyl, o chlorophenyl, 2,4 dichlorophenyl, p chlorophenyl, p nitrophenyl, o nitrophenyl, 2,4 dinitrophenyl, p mercaptophenyl, and the like Preferably, R1 is p chlorophenyl. A fully blocked nucleotide or the 3 phosphate containing terminal of a polynucleotide produced.by the triester method contains a blocked phosphate cf the formulaEMI7.1 The group R represents a group that can be selectively cleave, generally under mild alkaline conditions and, in accordance with the process of this invention, is X cyanoethyl. A blocked phosphate in which R1 is p chlorophenyl and R is ss cyanoethyl is conveniently denoted OPCE. It is also possible that the 3 terminal of a polynucleotide product lacks a phosphate in which case R , as hereinbefore described, is a 3 hydroxyl blocking group cleavable under alkaline conditions.Suitable such groups are acetyl, benzoyl, p methoxybenzoyl, and chloroacetyl. Preferably, the blocking group is benzoyl Bz . Nucleotide coupling is carried out in the presence of a coupling agent. Suitable coupling agents are well recognized by those skilled in the art.Examples of suitable coupling agents are p nitrobenzene sulfonyl triazolide, benzenesulfonyl triazolide, benzenesulfonyl 4 nitroimidazolide, 2,4,6 triisopropylbenzenesulfonyl 3 nitro 1,2,4 triazolide, 2,4,6trimethylbenzenesulfonyl 3 nitro 1,2,4 triazolide, 1 p toluenesulfonyl 4 nitroimidazolide, 2,4, 6 tri methylbenzenesulfonyl tetrazolide, 2,4,6 triisopropylbenzenesulfonyl chloride, 2,4,6 trimethylbenzenesulfonyl chloride, 2,4,6 triisopropylbenzenesulfonyl tetrazolide, and the like. Preferably, the coupling agent is 2,4,6 triisopropylbenzenesulfonyl tetrazolide or 2,4,6trimethylbenzenesulfonyl tetrazolide The coupling reaction is carried out in the presence of a suitable inert organic solvent under substantially anhydrous conditions.The current solvent of choice is pyridine. Products produced by nucleotide coupling include polynucleotides having the formulaEMI9.1 in which B, R, R1, and R2 are as hereinbefore defined and n is zero or an Integer uF to about 20. These as well as fully blocked mononuclec tides of the formulaEMI9.2 represent the kinds of structures to which the selective deblocking process of this invention may be applied. In deblocking the ss cyanoethyl R2 group of a mono or polynucleotide in accordance with the process of this invention, the mono or polynucleotide is reacted with a primary amine having from 3 to 5 carbon atoms or with diethylamine. Examples of such primary amines are n propyl amine, n butyl amine, sec butyl amine, and t butyl amine. A hindered amine is highly referred, and, in particular, t butyl amine. Although not essential, the blocking reaction generally and preferably Is carried cut in the presence of an inert organic solvent. The current solvent of choice is pyridine. For the sake of convenience, the decyanoethylation reaction normally is carried out at room temperature. However, any of a wide range o temperatures, generally ranging from 4 C. to 30 C. can be employed. The amount of primary amine or diethylamine used in the process of this invention is directly dependent upon the amount, on a molar basis, of ss cyanoethyl to be cleaved. However, since an excess the amine can be used without detriment, a large excess, for example, 10 to 20 fold, on a molar basis normally will be used. The progress of the reaction can be monitored using any of a variety of analytical techniques including, for example, thin layer chromatography tlc , high performance liquid chromatography hplc , and the like. The product, the amine salt of the phosphate diester, can be readily isolated by evaporation of the solvent, any excess amine, and the acrylonitrile by product. If desired, the product can be further puri fied, for example, by recrystallization from a suitable solvent or solvent mixture. The recovered product, with or without further purification, is available for further coupling with a nucleotide or polynucleotide having an available 5 hydroxyl. The following examples are provided to further illustrate the process of this invention. They are not intended to be limiting upon the scope thereof.Example 1 Synthesis of DMTrO TG OPCE. 5 O Dimethoxytritylthymidine 3 O pchlorophenyl ss cyanoethyl phosphate 1.5 g. 1.9 mmol. was dissolved in 20 ml. of anhydrous pyridine. tButylamine about 3 ml. was added dropwise to the above solution with stirring. The reaction was allowed to proceed for about 10 minutes after which decyanoethylation was complete as shown by silica gei thin layer chromatography solvent 10 MeOH CH2Cl2 . The reaction mixture was evaporated to dry ness to remove pyridine, t butylamine, and acrylonitrile.The dried reaction mixture was then redissolved inCH2C12 20 ml. , and N isobutyrJldeoxyguanosine 3 O p chlorophenyl ss cyanoethyl phosphate 0.93 g., 1.6 mmol. was added. The two protected mononucleotides were dried extensively in vacuo and redissolved in 10 ml. of anhydrous pyridine. The condensing agent, 2,4,6 trimethylbenzenesulfonyl tetrazolide 1.01 g., 4 mmol. , was added, and the reaction was allowed to proceed for one hour at ambient temperature.At the end of this period, the coupling reaction was shown to be complete by the disappearance of the 5 hydroxyl reactant and appearance of an Intense trityl positive spot of the dinucleotide tlc 10 MeOH CH2Cl2 The reaction mixture then was pipetted and transferred to 150 ml. of a 1 1 volume mixture of ether and hexane. A white precipitate containing the dinucleotide product formed and was collected by centrifugation. Thin layer chromatography 108 MeOH CH2C12 of the supernatant showed no dinucleotide product.Example 2 Synthesis of DMTrO GGTA OPCE. To 200 mg. of DMTrO GG OPCE were added approximately 4 ml. of dry pyridine and approximately 2 ml.of t butyl amine. The decyanoethylation was complete after 10 minutes, as determined by tlc, and the mixture was evaporated to dryness in vacuo. The decyanoethylated dimer was combined with 1.21 x 10 4 moles of HO TA OPCE, and the mixture was riea or 30 minutes in vacuo. To initiate coupling, 200 mg. of 2,4,6 trimethylbenzene suloyl tetrazolide and approxmately 4 ml. of dry pyridine were added. Coupling was complete after one hour. The mixture then was stirred into two centrifuge tes, each containing 40 ml. of methyl ether. A precipitate of the tetramer formed.The tubes were centrifuged for our minutes, the ether was decanted, and the product was dissolved in dichloromethane, and the solution was evaporated to dryness. After puri fication on a silica plate in 25 acetone, 70 ethyl acetate, 5 water, 121 mg. 43.2 of the title compound were recovered. Example 3 Synthesis of DMTrO CGGACAGAGACA OBz. To 56 mg. of DMTrO CGGA OPCE were added 2 ml. of pyridine and 1 ml. of t butyl amine. After 10 minutes the reaction mixture was dried in vacuo. To the residue were added 52 mg. of HO CAGAGACA OBz, and the mixture was dried in vacuo for 30 minutes. To the mixture then were added 90 mg. of 2,4,6 trimethyl benzenesulfonyl tetrazolide and 0.5 ml. of dry pyridine.The coupling reaction was completed after one hour.The mixture then was stirred into a centrifuge tube containing 40 ml. of ethyl ether. After centrifuging for four minutes, the ether was decanted, and the product was dissolved in dichloro ethane and, the solution was evaporated to dryness. Purification of 5 6 of the material on a silica plate in 25 acetone, 70 ethyl acetate, 5 water gave 40 mg. of the title compound 57.3 yield based upon purificaticn of all of the product .Example 4 Decyanoethylation of DMTrO C OPCE. 5 O Dimethoxytrityl N benzoyldeoxycytidine3 O p chlorophenyl ss cyanoethyl phosphate 170 mg., 0.2 mmol. was dissolved in 0.2 ml. of anhydrous pyridine.About 1 ml. of sec butylamine was added to the solution dropwise. The decyanoethylation was complete in 20 minutes as shown by sIlica gel chromatography. Excess sec butylamine and pyridine along with acrylonltrile by product were removed in vacuo, and the decyanoethylated product was isolated quantitatively. Example 5 Decyanoethylation of DMTrO T OPCE. 5 O Dimethoxytrithymidime 3 O p chloro phenyl ss cyanoethyl phosphate 150 mg., 0.19 mmol. was dissolved in 2 ml. of anhydrous pyridine. About 1 ml.of n propylamlne was added to the solution. Decyanoethylation was complete after about 2 minutes as shown by tlc silica gel GF 108 CH3CH CH2Cl . The reaction was quenched immediately by precipitation in a 2 1 mixture of hexane and ether. The resulting mixture was centrifuged, and the supernatant was decanted. The decyanoethylated product was condensed with N benzoyldeoxyadenosine 3 p chlorophenyl ss cyanoethyl phosphate as in the foregoing examples t produce DMTrO TA OPCE.Example 6 Synthesis of DMTrO TA OPCE. 5 O Dimethoxytrithymidime 3 O pchlorophenyl ss cyanoethyl phosphate 3.0 g. 3.8 mmol. was dissolved in 20 ml. of anhydrous pyridine. Diethylamine about 6 ml. was added dropwise to the above solution with stirrIng. The reaction was allowed to proceed for about 30 minute after which decyanoethyl ation was complete as shown by silica gel thin layer chromatography solvent 10 MeOH CH2Cl2 . The reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness to remove pyridine, diethylamine, and acrylonitri The dried reaction mixture was then redissolved inCH2Cl2 20 ml. , and N benzoyldeoxyadenosine 3 Op chlorophenyl 3 cyanoethyl phosphate 2.0 g. 3.2 mmol. was added. The two protected mononucleotides were dried extensively in vacuo and redissclaved in 20 ml.of anhydrous syridine. The condensing agent, 2,4,6 tr imethylbenzenesulfonyl tetrazolide 3.0 g., i2 mmol. , was added, and the reaction was allowed to proceed for one hour at ambient temperature. At the end of this period, the coupling reaction was shown to be complete by the disappearance of the 5 hydroxyl reactant and appearance of an intense trityl positive spot of the dinucleotide tlc 10 MeOH CH2Cl2 . The reaction mixture then was pipetted and transferred to 150 ml. of a 1 1 volume mixture of ether and hexane. A white precipitate containing the fully protected TA dimer in a yield of about 71 was collected by centrifugation. Thin layer chromatography 10 MeOH CH2Cl2 of the supernatant showed no dinucleotide product.Example 7 Synthesis of DMTrO GTTC OPCE. To 300 mg. of DMTrO GT OPCE were added approximately 2 ml. of dry pyridine. Neat diethylamine approximately 2 ml. was added, and decyaniethylation was complete in less tan 30 minutes, as determined by tlc. The mixture was evaporated to dryness in vacuo. The decyanoethylated dimer was reacted wit 200 mg. of HO TC OPCE using the procedure of Example 6 to obtain 260 mg. 79 of the title compound. Example 8 Synthesis of DNTrO GTTCTAC OBz. To 260 mg. of DMTrO GTTC OPCE were added 2 ml. of pyridine. Neat diethylamine approximately 1 ml. was added, and decyanoethylation was complete in less than 30 minutes, as determined by tlc. The reaction mixture was dried in vacuo. The decyanoethylated tetramer was reacted with 140 mg. of HO TACT OBz using the procedure of Example 6 to obtain 250 mg. 78 of the title compound.