# Imidazole derivatives, their preparation, and their pharmaceutical compositions.

## Abstract
Antitumor agents and immunosuppressants I

## Claims
C L A I M S 1. A compound of the formulaEMI23.1 wherein R is a monosubstituted benzoyl group in which the substitutent is a a phenyl, alkanoyl, formyl, halogenoalkyl, aralkyloxy, phenoxy, alkoxycarbonyl, aralkyloxycarbonyl, alkanoyloxy, benzoyl, carboxyl, hydroxy, aralkyloxycarbonylamino, lower alkoxycarbonylamino, carboxyamino or carbamoyl group or a group IV EMI23.2 wherein X1 and Y.2 are each independently hydrogen or lower alky b a cinnamoyl group which may be substituted at the a position and or the phenyl ring with one or more substitutents selected independently from alkyl, alkoxy, aryl, nitro, methylenedioxy, formyl, halogenoalkyl, hydroxy, carboxyl, amino and cyano groups and halogens or c a benzoyl group substituted with from two to five substituents selected independently from alkyl, alkoxy, aralkyloxy, nitro, hydroxy, alkanoyloxy, formyl, carboxyl, alkylthio, alkylsulfonyl, sulfo and sulfamoyl groups, halogens, and groups IV above and non toxic salts thereof. 2. A compound according to claim 1 wherein R is a monosubstituted benzoyl group. 3. A compound according to claim 1 wherein R is a substituted or unsubstituted cinnamoyl group. 4. A compound according to claim 1 wherein R is a benzoyl group substituted with from two to five of the same or different substituents. 5. A compound according to claim 2 wherein R is selected from p benzyloxybenzoyl, m trifluoromethylbenzoyl, p N benzyloxycarbonylaminobenzoyl, 4 biphenylylcarbonyl, o acetylsalicyloyl, o benzyloxycarbonylbenzoyl and p methoxycarbonylbenzoyl. 6. A compound according to claim 3 wherein R is selected from cinnamoyl, p methylcinnamoyl, p chlorocinnamoyl, 3,4 methylenedioxycinnamoyl, p methoxycinnamoyl, p formylcinnamoyl, m trifluoromethylcinnamoyl, m nitrocinnamoyl and a phenylcinnamoyl. 7. A compound according to claim 4 wherein R is selected from 2,6 dimethylbenzoyl, 3,4 dimethoxybenzoyl, 2,4,6 trimethoxybenzoyl, 3,4 bisbenzyloxybenzoyl, 3,4dihydroxybenzoyl, 3,5 dinitrobenzoyl and 3 methoxy 4 methylbenzoyl. 8. A process for producing a compound, according to claim 1 which comprises reacting 4 carbamoylimidazolium 5 olate EMI25.1 or reactive derivative thereof with carboxylic acid of the formula R OH or reactive derivative thereof where R is as defined in claim 1. 9. An antitumor composition which comprises an antitumor effective amount of a compound or compounds according to any of claims 1 to 7 as active ingredient and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent. 10. An immunosuppressant composition which comprises an immunosuppressive amount of compound or compounds according to any of claims 1 to 7 as active ingredient and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent.

## Description
IMIDAZOLE DERIVATIVES,THEIR PREPARATION, AND THEIR PHARMACEUTICAL COMPOSITIONS The present invention relates to 4 carbamoylimidazolium 5 olate derivatives, their preparation, and pharmaceutical compositions containing them. The derivatives of the present invention are of formula I EMI1.1 wherein R is a monosubstituted benzoyl group in which the substitutent is a a phenyl, alkanoyl, formyl, halogenoalkyl, aralkyloxy, phenoxy, alkoxycarbonyl, aralkyloxycarbonyl, alkanoyloxy, benzoyl, carboxyl, hydroxy, aralkyloxycarbonylamino, lower alkoxycarbonylamino, carboxyamino or carbamoyl group or a group IV EMI1.2 wherein X1 and X2 are each independently hydrogen or lower.alkyl b a cinnamoyl group which may be substituted at the a position and or the phenyl ring with one or more substitutents selected independently from alkyl, alkoxy, aryl, nitro, methylenedioxy, formyl, halogenoalkyl, hydroxy, carboxyl, amino nnd cyano groups and halogens or c a benzoyl gnxD substituted with from two to five substituents selected independently from alkyl, alkoxy, aralkyloxy, nitro, hydroxy, alkanoyloxy, formyl, carboxyl, alkylthio, alkylsulfonyl, sulfo and sulfamoyl groups, halogens, and groups IV above and non toxic salts thereof. As used herein, the term alkanoyl comprehends lower alkanoyl having 2 to 6 carbon atoms e.g. acetyl, propionyl, pivaloyl, hexanoylr, medium alkanoyl having 7 to 12 carbon atoms e.g. lauroyl and higher alkanoyl having 13 to 22 carbon atoms e.g. octanoyl, palmitoyl . The term halogenoalkyl means lower alkyl having 1 to 6 carbon atoms substituted with halogen s , e.g.trifluoromethyl, ss chloroethyl. The term aralkyloxy means lower alkoxy having 1 to 6 carbon atoms substituted with an aryl group, e.g.benzyloxy, a methylbenzyloxy, phenethyloxy and the like. The term alkoxycarbonyl comprehends lower alkoxy carbonyl having 2 to 7 carbon atoms e.g. methoxycarbonyl, ethoxycarbonyl, n propoxycarbonyl, isopropoxycarbonyl , medium alkoxycarbonyl having 8 to 13 carbon atoms e.g.octyloxycarbonyl and higher alkoxycarbonyl having 14 to 23 carbon atoms e.g. octadecyloxycarbonyl, docosyloxycarbonyl . The term 11araikylczycarboyl means a carbonyl substituted with an above aralkyloxy group e.g benzyloxycarbonyl, a methylbenzyloxycarbonyl, phenethyloxycarbonyl . The term alkanoyloxy comprehends lower alkanoyloxy having 2 to 6 carbon atoms e.g. acetoxy, propionyloxy, pivaloyloxy, hexanoyloxy , medium alkanoyloxy having 7 to 12 carbon atoms e.g. octanoyloxy lauroyloxy and higher alkanoyloxy having 13 to 22 carbon atoms e.g. palmitoyloxy, stearoyloxy . The term aralkyloxycarbonylaminon means an amino group substituted with an above aralkyloxycarbonyl group. The term lower alkoxyearbonylamino means an amino group substituted with an above lower alkoxycarbonyl group. The term alkyl ctprends lower alkyl having 1 to 6 carbon atoms e.g. methyl, ethyl, n propyl, iso propyl, n butyl, isobutyl, t butyl, hexyl , medium alkyl having 7 to 12 carbon atoms e.g. octyl, decyl, dodecyl and higher alkyl having 13 to 22 carbon atoms e.g. pentadecyl, docosyl . The term alkoxy comprehends lower alkoxy having 1 to 6 carbon atoms e.g. methoxy, ethoxy, n propoxy, isopropoxy, n butoxy, isobutoxy , medium alkoxy having 7 to 12 carbon atoms e.g. octyloxy, dodecyloxy and higher alkoxy having 13 to 22 carbon atoms e.g. octadecyloxy, docosyloxy . The term aryl covers phenyl, tolyl, and naphthyl, etc. The term halogen convers fluorine, chlorine, bromine and iodine. The term alkylthio means an alkylthio substi tuted with an above alkyl group. The term alkylsulfonyl mean an alkylsulfonyl ubstituted with an above alkyl group. The term lower alkyl in X1 or X2 means a lower alkyl hiving 1 to 6 carbon atoms as stated above. The cinnamoyl group may be unsubstituted, or substituted Cat the a position and or the phenyl ring with one or more of the same or different substituents mentioned above substituted groups included e.g. p methylcinnamoyl, p methoxycinnamoyl, a phenylcinnamoyl, m nitrocinnamoyl,3,4 niethylenedioxycinnamoyl, p formylcinnamoyl, m trifluoromethylcinnamoyl, p chlorocinnamoyl, p aminocinnamoyl, p hydroxycinnamoyl, o carboxycinnamoyl, methylcinnamoyl, a fluoro cinnamoyl, a cyano p hydroxycinnamoyl, 2, 6 dichiorocinnamoyl, 2, 5 dimethoxycinnamoyl, 3, 4 dimethylcinnamoyl, 4 hydroxy 3methoxycinnamoyl, 3,4 dihydroxycinnamoyl, 2,4,5 trimethyoxy cinnamoyl, and 3,5 dime thoxy 4 hydroxyc innamoyl Compounds of formula I can be prepared by reacting 4 carbamoylimidazolium 5 olate II EMI4.1 or reactive derivative thereof with carboxylic acid of formula III R OH III wherein R is as defined above or reactive derivative thereof. Examples of preferred reactive derivatives of carboxylic acids of the formula III are carboxylic acid halides e.g. chlorides, bromides, iodides, fluorides , anhydrides and mixed anhydrides e.g. with ethyl chloroformate, isobutyl chloroformate and the like , activated esters Ce.g. p nitrophenyl ester, ester withN hydroxysuccinimide , imidazolides e.g. prepared by reacting N,N carbonyldiimidazole with carboxylic acid III , and activated intermediates prepared by reacting carboxylic acid III with reaction products obtained from N,N dimethylformamide and oxalyl chloride or phosgene or thionyl chloride or phosphorus pentachloride . Examples of preferred reactive derivatives of 4 carbamoylimidazolium 5 olate of formula II are trimethylsilyl derivatives, trialkyltin derivatives, mercury salts, and silver salts. Typical examples of preferred solvents which may be used in this reaction are methylene chloride, chloroform, pyridine, diethyl ether, tetrahydrofuran, dioxane, benzene, toluene, methanol, ethanol, N,N dimethylformamide, formamide,N,N dimethylacetamide, acetonitrile, nitromethane, acetone, ethyl acetate, dimethylsulfoxide, dichioromethane, dichoro ethane, xylene and water. The reaction can generally be effected at a reaction temperature from 78 to 100 C., preferably from 60 to 60 C. The reaction of 4 carbamoylimidazolium 5 olate with carboxylic acid halide can usually be carried out in an inert polar solvent or a mixture of water and inert organic solvent, preferably in the presence of an inorganic or organic base, at a tem perature from 10 to 6000. using one to two mole equivalents of the acid halide. Typical examples of said inert polar solvent are tetrahydrofuran, dioxane, pyridine, N,N dimethylformamide, formamide, N,N dimethylacetamide and dimethylsulfoxide.Typical examples of said inert organic solvents are tetra hydrofuran, dioxane, diethyl ether, chloroform, dichloromethane, dichloroethane, benzene, toluene, and xylene.Examples of preferred inorganic base are sodium hydroxide sodium carbonate, sodium bicarbonate, potassium carbonate or bicarbonate and potassium hydroxide. Examples of preferred organic base are pyridine, triethylamine and N, N dimethylaniline. The reaction of 4 carbamoylimidazolium 5 olate with activated intermediate prepared by reacting carboxylic acid III with reaction product obtained from NN dimethylformamide and oxalyl chloride or phosgene or thionyl chloride or phosphorus pentachloride can usually be carried out in an organic solvent e.g. acetonitrile, pyridine, N,N dimethylformamide, N,N dimethylacethylamide, chloroform at a temperature from 780 to 80 C. The compounds of formula I can also be prepared by reacting silylatod derivative cf 4 carbamoylimidazolium 5 olate with reactive derivative of carboxylic acid III e.g. acid halide at a temperature from 78 to 50 C. in.an inert organic solvent e.g. dimethylformamide, tetrahydrofuran, dioxane, diethyl ether, benzene, toluene . The silylated derivatives of 4 carbamoylimidazolium 5 olate are known and can be prepared by known methods Hayashi, et al. Japanese Patent Publication KolSai No. 50 121276 . then a compound of formula I existsin the form of silylated derivative in the reaction mixture, the compound I can be obtained by a des lylation reaction with desilylating reagent s e.g.acetic acid, methanol . When an acid halide of acid III is used as a reactant the eliminated halide can be neutralized by organic base e.g. triethylamine, pyridine . Compounds of formula I substituted by any of amino, hydroxy and carboxyl groups can be prepared by the said acylation methods after protecting any substituent amino, hydroxy or carboxyl group with a protective group e.g.benzyl, benzyloxycarbonyl, t butoxycarbonyl and the like and then removing the protective group s . The compounds of formula I can be isolated and purified by known purification methods e.g. recrystallization, column chromatography . The compounds of formula I may form salts with inorganic acids e.g. hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid, nitric acid, phosphoric acid or organic acidste.g. toluenesulfonic acid, benzenesulfonic acid, inethanesulfonic acid, tartaric acid, malic acid, lactic acid, maleic acid, fumaric acid . The imidazole derivatives of the present invention may exist in a mixture of two tautomers EMI8.1 both of which are within the scope of the present invention. Compounds of the present invention have shown potent antitumor activities against Sarcoma 180, Lewis lung carcinoma, Thrlich carcinoma, P 388 leukemia and the like. Compounds of formula I used as antitumor agents have exhibited good inhibitory effects against tumors and also a prolonging effect on life span. The anti tumor activities of compounds of the present invention were estimated according to the methods described in Cancer chemotheraphy reports Part 3, Vol. 5, No. 2 p.13 1972 . The results are given in the followingTable 1. Table 1 Antitumor effect on mouse experimental tumors Inhibition Dose Sche Ratio Compound mg kg dule Lewis lung Route i.p. carcinoma solid 5 Carbamoyl lH imidazole 100 5q2d 77.0 4 yl p phenylbenzoate 5 Carbamoyl l imidazole 00 5q2d 90 4 yl p chlorocinnamate 5 Carbamoyl 1H imidazole 100 5q2d 90 4 yl m nitrocinnamate Table 1 cont d 5 Carbamoyl 1H imidazole 100 5q2d 83.1 4 yl 3 ,4 dimethoxybenzoate 5 Carbamoyl lH imidazole4 yl 3 methoxy 4 100 5q2d 89.4 methylbenzoate Bppl male mice, 5 weeks bld, weighing between 18 and 22 grams were used. Teach test group was composed of 6 to 7 mice. Two million cells of Lewis lung carcinoma were injected in the hind leg.The drug was administered intraperitoneally at days 1, 3, 5, 7 and 9 or 5q2d . After killing the mice at day 13, tumors were removed and weighed. The tumor inhibitory ratio was calculated according to the following formula the mean tumor weight Inhibition ratio 1 x 100 of control group Compounds of the present invention have also shown immunosuppressive activity. Compounds I of the present invention have shown low toxicity. They have shown no toxic symptons even on oral administration of over 1000 mg kg to a mouse. Moreover, they have not exhibited the effect of decreasing peripheral leucocytes, which is one of the most serious side effects of prior immunosuppressants. Compounds of the present invention can be administered orally or parenterally to warm blooded animals at a daily dose of 2 200 mg kg as an antitumor agent or 1 100 mg kg as an immunosuppresant agent in conventional unit dosage form. Compounds of the present invention may be made up alone or together with conventional pharmaceutical carrier or diluent into a conventional solid or liquid pharmaceutical preparation e.g. powders, granules, tablets, capsules, suspensions, emulsions, solutions using methods conventional in the pharmaceutical field. For example, tablets or capsules may contain 50 500 mg of compound I . Especially, compounds I of the present invention can be used for oral administration and may be effective for a long period. The following Examples are given to illustrate the present invention further but it is not intended to limit the present invention thereto. Example 1 To a suspension of 0.636 g. of 4 carbamoylimidazolium 5 olate in 15 ml of dry pyridine was added dropwise 1.2 g of 2,6 dimethylbenzoyl chloride at a temperature below 5 C.in an h atmosphere. After being stirred for two 0 hours at 41 43 C., the reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and 0.8 g of triethylamine was added, and separated crystals were filtered off. Then the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure, and separated crystals were filtered off, washed with toluene and ether and dried to give 0 689 g of 5 carbamoyl lH imidazole 4 yl 2 ,6 dimethylbenzoate, m.p. 176 17700. Crude material was recrystallized from N,N dimethylformamide and water. m.p. 180 180.5 C. EMI11.1 Elemental analysis C H N Calculated for 013H13N303 0.31120 59.00 5.18 15.88 Found 59.1 5.0 15.6 Example 2 Following a procedure similar to that of Example 1 but using 0.636 g of 4 carbamoylimidazolium 5 olate and 1.30 g of 3,4 dimethoxybenzoyl chloride there was obtained 1.353 g of 5 carbamoyl lH imidazole 4 yl 3 ,4 dimethoxy benzoate. m.p. 209.5 C. dec. Crude material was recrystallized from N,N dimethylformamide and water. m.p. 216.5 C.EMI11.2 Elemental analysis C H N Calculated for C13H13N3O5 53.61 4.50 14.43 Found 53.38 4.43 14.30 Example 3 Following a procedure similar to that of Example 1 but using 0.636 g of 4 carbamoylimidazolium 5 olate and 2.0 g of 2,4,6 trimcthoxybenzoyl chloride there was obtained 0.699 g of 5 carbamoyl lH imdazole 4 yl 2 ,4 ,6 trimethoxy benzoate. m.p. 174 C. charred Crude material was recrystallized from N,N dimethylformamide and water. m.p. 184.500. charred EMI11.3 Elemental analysis o H N Calculated for C14H15N3O6 52.34 4.71 13.08 Found 52.2 4.8 15.2 Example 4 Following a procedure similar to that of Example 1 but using 0.508 g of 4 carbamoylimidazolium 5 olate and 1.83 g of 3,4 bisbenzyloxybenzoyl chloride there was obtained 1.548 g of 5 carbamyol 1H imidazole 4 yl 31,4 f bisbenzyloxybenzoate. m.p. 189.5 191.50C. Crude material was recrystallized from N,N dimethylformamide and water. m.p. 191.5 192.5 C. EMI12.1 Elemental analysis C H N Calculated for C25H2105N3 67.71 4.77 9.48 Found 67.4 4.9 9.3 Example 5 A suspension of 0.55 g of 5 carbamoyl 1H imidazole 4 yl 3 ,4 bisbenzyloxybenzoate and 0.3 g of 10 Pd C in dry tetrahydrofuran was stirred for 6 hours at room temperature in an h atmosphere. Separated precipitates were filtered off and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure to give 0.270 g of 5 carbamoyl 1E imidazole 4 yl 3 ,4 dihydroxybenzoate. m. p. 156 C. Crude material was recrystallized from dimethylsulfoxide and water. m.p. 159 161 C.EMI12.2 Elemental analysis c H N Calculated for C11H9N3O5.1.2H2O 46.39 4.03 14.75 Found 46.46 3.81 14.45 Example 6 A mixture of 0.212 g of 3,5 dinitrobenzoic acid, 0.127 g of 4 carbamoylimidazolium 5 olate and 0.206 g of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide in 4 ml of dry pyridine was stirred for 21 hours at room temperature.Separated precipitates were filtered off and were washed with ethyl acetate to give 0.355 g of 5 carbamoyl lH imidazole 4 yl 31,51 dinitrobenzoate which was recrystallized from dimethylsulfoxide and water. m.p. 220 C. decomp. Elemental analysis C H ffi N Calculated for C11H7N507 41.13 2.20 21.81 Found 41.5 2.4 20.9 Example 7 Following a procedure similar to that of Example 6 but using 0.83 g of 3 methoxy 4 methylbenzoic acid, 1.03 g of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide and 0.635 g of 4 carbamoylimidazolium 5 olate there was obtained 1.45 g of 5 carbamoyl1H imidazole 4 yl 3 methoxy 4 methylbenzoate. Crude material was recrystallized from N,N dimethyl formamide and water. m.p. 210 C. decomp. EMI13.1 Example 8 A mixture of 76.26 g of 4 carbamoalimidazolium 5 olate, 174.31 g of 1,1,1,3,3,3 hexamethyldisilazane, 1.59 g of ammonium sulfate and 500 g of dry xylene was refluxed for 4 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and a tris trimethylsilylated derivative of 4 carbamoylimidazoliiiin 5 olate was obtained. m.p. 83 86.5 C. To a stirred solution of 1.718 g of tris trimethylsilylated derivative of. 4 carbamoyl imidazoiium 5 olate in 15 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran was added dropwise a solution of 0.833 g of cinnamyol chloride in 5 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran at 50 C. under an N2 atmosphere.After stirring the mixture for hr. at 500C., 0.32 g of dry methanol was added, and after further stirring for 15 minutes at 500C., 0.51 g of triethylamine was added. The reaction mixture was heated up to room temperature and then separated crystals were filtered off, washed with tetrahydrofuran and chloroform and dried to give 0.796 g of 5 carbamoyl lU imidazole 4 yl cinnamate.m.p. 170 17500. The filtrate of a tetrahydrofuran solution was concentrated and diethylether was added to the residue and separated crystals. were filtered off, washed with diethyl ether and dried to give 0.427 g of product. Crude material was recrystallized from dimethylsulfoxide and water. m.p. 19700. charred EMI14.1 Elemental analysis C H N Calculated for C13H11N3O3.O.1H2O 60.27 4.36 16.22 Found 60.1. 4.4 16.3 Example 9 Following a procedure similar to that of Example 8 but using O.9 g of p methylciunamoyl chloride there was obtained 1.270 g of 5 carbamoyl 1H imidazole 4 yl p methyl cinnamate. m.p. 17100. decomp. Crude material was recrystallized from dimethylsulfoxide and water. m.p. 194 C. charred EMI15.1 Elemental analysis Calculated for C14H13N3O3.O.2H2O 61.17 4.91 15.29 Found 61.19 4.69 15.49 Example 10 Following a procedure similar to that of Example 8 but using 1.01 g of p chlorocinnamoyl chloride there was obtained 1.408 g of 5 carbamoyl 1H imidazole 4 yl p chlorocinnamate. m.p. 172 C. dec. Crude material was recrystallized from dimethylsulfoxide and water. m. p. 202 C. dec. EMI15.2 Elemental anlaysis C H ffi N Calculated for C13H10N2O3Cl.O.1H2O 53.20 3.5 14.32 Found 53.1 3.8 14.1 Example 11 Following a preocedure similar to that of Example 8 but using 1.053 g of 3,4 methylenedioxycinnamoyl chloride there was obtained 1.172 g of 5 carbamoyl lH imidazole 4 yl 3 ,4 methylenedioxycinnamate. m.p. 165 17500. Crude material was recrystallized from dimethylsulfoxide and water. m.p. 189 C. char. EMI15.3 Elemental analysis C H f N Calculated for C14H11N3O5.O.4H2O 54.51 3.86 13.62 Found 54.49 3.71 13.48 Example 12 Following a procedure similar to that of Example 8 but using 0.98 g of p methoxycinnamoyl chloride, there was obtained 1.15 g of 5 carbamoyl 1H imidazole 4 yl p methoxycinnamate. m.p. 165 167 C. dec. Crude material was recrystallized from dimethylsulfoxide and water. m. p. 1850C. char. EMI16.1 Elemental analysis C H N Calculated for C14H13N304 .6H20 56.41 4.80 14.10 Pound 56.75 4.63 13.85 ExamDle 13 Following a procedure similar to that of Example 8 but using 0.97 g of p formylcinnamoyl chloride, there was obtained 1.086 g of 5 carbamoyl 1H imidazole 4 yl p formyl cinnamte. Crude material was recrystallized from dimethylsulfoxide and water. m. p. 233 C. char. EMI16.2 Elemental analysis C H N Calculated for C14H11N3O4.O.5H2O 57.14 4.11 14.28 Found 57.0 3.9 14.0 ExamPle 14 Following a procedure similar to that of Example 8 but using 1.173 g of m trifluoromethylcinnamoyl chloride, there was obtained 1.236 g of 5 carbamoyl lH imidazole 4 yl m trifluoromethylcinnamate. m.p. 167 17O0C. dec. Crude material was recrystallized from dimethylsulfoxide and water. m.p. 1880C. char. EMI17.1 Elemental analysis C H N Calculated for C14H10N3O3F3 2 .11120 51.42 3.14 12.85 Found 51.19 2.98 13.09 Example 15 Following a procedure similar to that of Example 8 but using 1.058 g of m nitrocinnamoyl chloride, there was obtained 1.383 g of 5 carbamoyl lH imidazole 4 yl m nitrocinnamate. Crude material was recrystallized from dim ethyl sulfoxide and water. m.p. 1970C. char. EMI17.2 Elemental analysis C H N Calculated for C13H10N4O5.O.3H2O 50.75 3.47 18.21 Found 50.7 3.30 18.20 Example 16 Following a procedure similar to that of Example 1 but using 1.46 g of a phenylcinnamoyl chloride, there was obtained 1.186 g of 5 carbamoyl lH imidazole 4 yl a phenyl cinnamate. m.p. 2080C. Crude material was recrystallized from dimethyl sulfoxide and water. m.p. 212 C.EMI18.1 Elemental analysis o H N Calculated for C19H15N3O3.O.3H2O 67.37 4.64 12.40 Found 67.48 4.51 12.41 Examnle 17 Following a procedure similar to that of Example 1 but using 2.544 g of 4 carbamoylimidazolium 5 olate and 5.922 g of p benzyloxybenzoyl chloride, there was obtained 5 carbamoyl 1H imidazole 4 yl p benzyloxybenzoate. Crude material was recrystallized from dimethylsulfoxide and water. m. p. 215 218 C. dec. EMI18.2 Elemental analysis C H N Calculated for C18H1504N3 64.09 4.48 12.46 Found 63.5 4.5 12.3 Example 18 Following a procedure similar to that of Example 1 but using m trifluoromethylbenzoyl chloride, there was obtained 5 carbamoyl 1H imidazole 4 yl m trifluoromethylbenzoate. m.p. 208 2110C. dec. EMI18.3 Elemental analysis C H N Calculated for C12H8O3N3F3 48 17 2.7 14.04 Found 4d.0 2.9 14.0 Example 19 Following a procedure similar to that of Example 1 but using p N benzyloxycarbonylaminobenzoyl chloride, there was obtained 5 carbamoyl 1H imidazo le 4 yl p Nbenzyloxycarbonylaminobenzoate. m. p. 187 190 C. dec. EMI19.1 Elemental Analysis C H N Calculated for C19H1605N4 59.99 4.24 14.73 Found 59.6 4.3 14.5 Example 20 Following a procedure similar to that of Example 1 but using 1.41 g of 4 biphenylcarbonyl chloride, there was obtained 1.33 g of 5 carbamoyl lH imidazole 4 yl p henylbenzoate. m.p. 2250C. char. Crude material was recrystallized from N,N dimethylformamide and water. m.p. 226.5 22700. char. EMI19.2 Elemental analysis C H N Calculated for C17H13N3O3 66.44 4.26 13.67 Found 66.6 4.3 13.5 Example 21 Following a procedure similar to that of Example 8 but using 1.1 g of o acetylsalicyloyl chloride, there was obtained 1.29 g of 5 carbamoyl 1H imidazole 4 yl o acetoxy benzoate. m. p. 143 145 C.EMI19.3 Example 22 To a stirred solution of 6.3 ml of N,N dimethyl formamide in 14 ml of acetonitrile was added slowly 0.45 ml of oxalyl chloride at 200C. and the reaction mixture was heated up to room temperature. To the reaction mixture was added 1.33 g of o benzyloxycarbonylbenzoic acid at 25 0C. and the reaction mixture was heated up to room temperature. To the reaction mixture were added 0.636 g of 4carbamoylimidazolium 5 olate and 2.5 ml of dry pyridine over ice bath in an N2 atmosphere and stirring was continued for 30 minutes at room temperature. To the residue was added 1.9 ml of triethylamine over an ice bath and separated precipitates were filtered off and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure to give 0.78 g of 5 carbamoyl lH imidazole 4 yl o benzyloxycarbonylbenzoate. m.p. 122 124 C. EMI20.1 Example 23 Following a procedure similar to that of Example 1 but using 1.19 g of p methoxycarbonylbenzoyl chloride, there was obtained 1.4 g of 5 carbamoyl lH imidazole 4 yl p methoxycarbonylbenzoate. Crude material was recrystallized from dimethylsulfoxide and water. m.p. 2150C. dec. EMI20.2 Elemental analysis C H N Calculated for C13H11N305 53.98 3.83 14.53 Found 53.44 3.80 14.46 According to the present invention, there are obtained, for example, the following compounds 5 carbamoyl l imidazole 4 yl p aminocinnamate, 5 carbamoyl l imidazole 4 yl p hydroxycinnamate, 5 carbamoyl lH imidazole 4 yl o carboxycinnamate, 5 carbamoyl 1H imidazole 4 yl alpha cyano 4 hydroxycinnamate, 5 carbamoyl 1H imidazole 4 yl 3 ,4 dichlorocinnamate, 5 carbamoyl 1H imidazole 4 yl 3 ,4 dimethoxycinnamate, 5 carbamoyl 1H imidazole 4 yl 3 ,4 dimethylcinnamate, 5 carbamoyl 1H imidazole 4 yl 4 hydroxy 3 methoxycinnamate, 5 carbamoyl 1H imidazole 4 yl 3 ,4 ,5 trimethoxycinnamate, 5 carbamoyl 1H imidazole 4 yl 3 ,4 dihydroxycinnamate, 5 carbamoyl lH imidazole 4 yl a fluorocinnamate, 5 carbamoyl 1H imidazole 4 yl 3 ,5 dimethoxy 4 hydroxycinnamate, 5 carbamoyl 1H imidazole 4 yl alpha methylcinnamate, 5 carbamoyl 1H imidazole 4 yl p octylcinnamate, 5 carbamoyl 1H imidazole 4 yl p dodecylcinnamate, 5 carbamoyl 1K imidazole 4 yl p docosylcinnamate, 5 carbamoyl lH imidazole 4 yl p octyloxycinnamate, 5 carDamoyl lH imidazole 4 yl p octadecyloxycinnamate, 5 carbamoyl 1H imidazole 4 yl pentafluorobenzoate, 5 carbamoyl lH imidazole 4 yl 2 ,4 dicarboxybenzoate, 5 carbamoyl 1H imidazole 4 yl 3 amino 4 methylbenzoate, 5 carbamoyl 1H imidazole 4 yl 3 acetyloxy 4 methylbenzoate, 5 carbamoyl 1H imidazole 4 yl 2 benzyloxy 5 methylthiobenzoate, 5 carbamoyl 1H imidazole 4 yl 4 methylsulfonyl 3 nitrobenzoate, 5 carbamoyl 1H imidazole 4 yl 4 chloro 3 sulfamoylbenzoate, 5 carbamoyl 1H imidazole 4 yl 2 hydroxy 5 methylthiobenzoate, 5 carbamoyl lH imidazole 4 yl 5 formyl 2 hydroxybenzoate, 5 carbamoyl 1H imidazole 4 yl 2 hydroxy 5 sulfobenzoate, 5 carbamoyl 1H imidazole 4 yl 4 diethylamino 2 hydroxybenzoate, 5 carbamoyl lH imidazole 4 yl 4 methyl 3 octyloxybenzoate, 5 carbamoyl 1H imidazole 4 yl 4 methyl 3 octodecyloxybenzoate, 5 carbamoyl 1H imidazole 4 yl 3 methoxy 4 lauroyloxybenzoate, 5 carbamoyl 1H imidazole 4 yl 3 methoxy 4 stearoyloxybenzoate, 5 carbamoyl 1H imidazole 4 yl 4 hexadecyl 2 methylbenzoate, 5 carbamoyl 1H imidazole 4 yl 2 dodecyl 4 methoxybenzoate, 5 carbamoyl lH imidazole 4 yl p aminobenzoate, 5 carbanoyl lH imidazole 4 yl p hydroxybenzoate, 5 carbamoyl 1B imidazole 4 yl o benzoylbenzoate, 5 carbamoyl 1H imidazole 4 yl o carboxybenzoate, 5 carbamoyl lH imidazole 4 yl o phenoxybenzoate, 5 carbamoyl 1H imidazole 4 yl p formylbenzoate, 5 carbamoyl lH imidazole 4 yl p acetylbenzoate, 5 carbamoyl 1H imidazole 4 yl p carbamoylbenzoate, 5 carbanoyl lH imidazole 4 รง1 p cotanoylbenzoate, 5 carbamoyl lH imidazole 4 yl p palmitoylbenzoate, 5 carbamoyl 1H imidazole 4 yl p octyloxycarbonylbenzoate, 5 carbamoyl 1H imidazole 4 yl p octadecyloxycarbonylbenzoate, 5 carbamoyl lH imidazole 4 yl p octanoyloxybenzoate, 5 carbamoyl 1H imidazole 4 yl p palmitoyloxybenzoate.