# Polyester molding compositions.

## Abstract
The addition of an unsaturated fatty acid ester to low shrinking polyester molding compositions containing un saturated polyesters results in moldings with improved surface characteristics.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1 A low profile additive composition containing a thermosetting unsaturated polyester, a thermoplastic polymer additive to control shrinkage, and an ethylenically unsaturated polymerizable monomer suitable for use in molding applications, characterized in that it comprises an unsaturated fatty acid ester. 2 A composition as defined in claim 1 wherein the unsaturated fatty acid ester is 2 ethylhexyl tallate, tall oil, soybean oil or linseed oil 3 A composition as defined in claim 1 or 2 containing a thickening amount of a chemically active thickening agent. 4 A composition as defined in claim 3 wherein the thickening agent is magnesium oxide or calcium oxide. 5 A composition as defined in any of claims 1 4 wherein the low profile additive is a polyvinyl acetate, preferably a carboxylated polyvinyl acetate. 6 A composition as defined in any of claims 1 5 contain ing a reinforcing filler. 7 A composition as defined in claim 6 wherein the reinforcing filler is glass fiber. 8 A composition as defined in any of claims 1 7 contain ing a rubber or elastomer. 9 A molded article produced from the composition of any of claims 1 8.

## Description
POLYESTER MOLDING COMPOSITIONS This invention pertains to improved polyester molding compositions and more particularly to those having improved surface characteristics. A technical improvement that has made a significant contribution to commercial polyester molding technology is the use of low profile additives to reduce shrinkage during the curing reaction, and to thereby improve dimensional stability and surface smoothness.Low profile additives are thermoplastic polymers such as vinyl acetate polymers, polystyrene, acrylic polymers, and polyeaprolactones. There are a number of theories that seek to explain the low profile or anti shrinkage action of these polymers, but the one that seems to best explain the phenomenon is the following The low profile additive is at least partly soluble in the uncured polyester styrene solution. As the polyester styrene mixture crosslinks, the thermoplastic polymer becomes incompatible or less soluble and at least partly comes out of solution. This action causes a volume expansion that compensates for the shrinkage that occurs when the polyester styrene mixture crosslinks. The development of low profile unsaturated polyester compounds has led to a wide acceptance of these materials by the transportation industry because of their good surface appearance, dimensional stability, physical properties, assembly consolidation and potential weight savings. However, as new applications developed standards have been raised making it desirable for even better surface appearance and the elimination of ripples and waviness that sometimes develop, particularly in relatively large appearance sensitive areas. There is, therefore, a need to provide low profile unsaturated polyester compounds which afford improved surface appearance in the molded parts obtainable therefrom. U. S. Patent Application Serial No. 194,069 filed in the name of Kenneth E. Atkins on October 16, 1980 and titled improved Polyester Moldings describes a polyester molding composition comprising a a polyester resin comprising the reaction product of an olefinically unsaturated dicarboxylic acia or anhydride and a polyol b an olefinically unsaturated monomer that is copolymerizable with said polyester resin c a thermoplastic polymer low profile additive to control shrinkage and d an effective amount of a second crosslinkable vinyl monomer having a reactivity ratio with styrene of greater than 1 The addition of component d in said U. S.Patent Application Serial No. 194,069 is stated to result in moldings with improved surface characteristics. U. S. Patent Application Serial No. 194,070 filed in the name of Kenneth E. Atkins et al. on October 16, 1980 and titled Improved Polyester Fiber Reinforced Molding Compounds describes a composition comprising a a thermosetting polyester resin b an olefinically unsaturated monomer that is copolymerizable with polyester resins c a thermoplastic low profile additive for shrinkage control and d a thermosetting epoxy resin containing at least one 1,2 epoxy groups per molecule. The addition of component d in said U. S.Patent Application 194,070 is stated to result in moldings having improved surface appearance. U. S. Patent Application Serial No. 237,697 filed in the name of Kenneth E. Atkins on February 24, 1981 and titled Improved Polyester MoldingCompositions describes a composition comprising a a thermosetting polyester resin b an olefinically unsaturated monomer that is copolymerizable with the polyester resin c a thermoplastic low profile additive for shrinkage control d an effective amount of a secondary crosslinkable vinyl monomer having a reactivity ratio with styrene of greater than 1 and e a thermosetting epoxy resin containing at least one 1,2 epoxy groups per molecule. In said U. S. Patent Application No. 237,697 it is stated that compositions containing both a secondary crosslinkable vinyl monomer having a reactivity ratio with styrene of greater than one and a thermosetting epoxy resin dontaining at least one 1,2 epoxy groups per molecule results in moldings having improved surface appearance as compared to those compositions containing either of said additives. It has now been found that compositions containing an unsaturated fatty acid ester result in moldings having improved surface appearance. The improved composition of this invention comprises a a thermosetting polyester resin, b an olefinically unsaturated monomer that is copolymerizable with the polyester resin c a thermoplastic low profile additive for shrinkage control and d an unstaurated fatty acid ester. It has been found that the addition of a select group of materials, i.e., unsaturated fatty acid esters to low shrinking polyester molding compositions results in moldings with improved surface characteristics. Thermosetting polyester resins suitable for use in accordance with the invention are polyester resins that are reaction products of a dicarboxylic acid or anhydride, with a polyhydric alcohol. The dicarboxylic acids or anhydrides that are employed to produce the polyester, either singly or in combination, must include those that contain olefinic unsaturation, preferably wherein the olefinic unsaturation is alpha, beta to at least one of the carboxylic acid groups. Such acids include maleic acid or anhydride, fumaric acid, methylmaleic acid, and itaconic acid. Maleic acid or anhydride and fumaric acid are the most widely used commercially. In addition to the olefinically unsaturated acid or anhydride, saturated and or aromatic dicarboxylic acids or anhydrides can also be employed in producing the polyester. Such acids include phthalic acid or anhydride, terephthalic acid, bexahydrophthalic acid or anhydride, adipic acid, isophthalic acid, and dimer acid i.e., dimerized fatty acids . A polyol is also employed to produce the polyester. Such polyols include ethylene glycol, diethylene glycol, propylene glycol, dipropylene glycol, butylene glycols, neopentyl glycol, glycerol and l,l,l trimethylolpropane. As a rule, not more than about 90 mole percent of the polyol will be a triol, with the remainder being one or more diols. As is known in the art, polyesters that are employed in thickened molding compositions must contain residual acidity in order to enter into the thickening reaction. The nature and production of the polyesters used in such applications, such as, dicyclopentadiene modified resins are known in the art and are described in U. S. Patents 3,933,757 and 3,883,612 incorporated herein by reference. Vinyl ester resins that have been advantageously employed in both bulk molding compounds flMC and sheet molding compounds SMC are resins wherein the secondary hydroxyl group formed by the interaction of an epoxide group with a carboxylic acid group has been reacted with a dicarboxylic acid anhydride to produce pendant carboxylic acid groups. A variety of saturated and unsaturated anhydrides similar to those described as useful in preparing polyester resins may be used in proportions of at least about 0.1 mole of anhydride per equivalent of hydroxyl group up to an amount sufficient to react with each hydroxyl. Thermosetting resins that are classified herein as vinyl ester resins, which contain the characteristic linkages and terminal, polymerizable unsaturated groups, are fully disclosed in U. S. Patent No. 3,687,515 toPennington et al. along with the preparation of such resins and further description of these well known resins is unnecessary herein. The curable compositions of the invention also contain a monomer that contains ethylenic unsaturation, and which is copolymerizable with the polyester and terminally unsaturated vinyl ester resins. Styrene is the preferred monomer in commercial practice today, although others can be used. The said monomer is also employed in the resin composition for the purpose of dissolving the thermosetting resin which is a solid at ambient temperature, i.e., about 20 250C. to ensure that the resin composition is a fluid. Enough monomer is employed. so that the thickness or viscosity of the fluid is such that the fluid can be processed conveniently.Excessive amounts of the monomer are normally to be avoided, because such excess can have an adverse effect on properties. For instance, too much of the monomer may tend to cause embrittlement of the cured polyester.Within these guidelines, effective proportions of the monomer are normally found within the range of from about 25 to about 70, and preferably from about 40 to about 55 weight percent, based on the weight of the polyester resin, plus monomer, plus low profile additive. When desired a thickening agent can also be employed in the compositions of this invention. Such materials are known in the art, and include the oxides and hydroxides of the metals Group I, II and III of thePeriodic Table. Illustrative examples of thickening agents include magnesium oxide, calcium oxide, calcium hydroxide, zinc oxide, barium oxide, magnesium hydroxide, and the like, including mixtures of the same. Thickening agents are normally employed in proprotions of from about 0.1 to about 6 weight percent, based upon the weight of the polyester resin, plus monomer, plus low profile additive. Alternatively a dual thickening system may be employed wherein, for example, a metallic oxide or hydroxide and polyisocyanate in amounts of polyisocyanate sufficient to react with at least thirty percent of the hydroxyl groups but not more than one hundred and five percent of the hydroxyl groups present and an amount of metallic oxide or hydroxide sufficient to react with at least thirty percent of the carboxyl groups but not more than seventy five perent ofthe carboxyl groups present. Reference is made to BelgiumPatent No. 849,135 to Epel et al. for a description of such dual thickening systems. An essential component of the compositions of this invention are thermoplastic low profile additives.In one aspect, the low profile additives that may be employed in this invention are thermoplastic polymers of vinyl acetate, saturated thermoplastic polyesters, and mixtures of the same. In another aspect of the invention, the low profile additive that may be employed herein are thermoplastic polyalkyl methacrylate polymers. Suitable thermoplastic vinyl acetate polymer low profile additives include poly vinyl acetate homopolymers and thermoplastic copolymers containing at least 50 weight percent vinyl acetate. Such polymers include, for example, vinyl acetate hompolymer carboxylated vinyl acetate polymers including copolymers of vinyl acetate and ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acids, such as acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, crotonic acid, maleic acid, fumaric acid, itaconic acid and the like or anhydrides such as maleic anhydride vinyl acetate vinyl chloride maleic acid terpolymer, and the like. Reference is made to U. S.Patent No. 3,718,714 to Comstock, et al. and BritishPatent No. 1,361,841 to Comstock, et al. for descriptions of some of the suitable vinyl acetate polymer low profile additives. The useful vinyl acetate polymer low profile additives ordinarily have molecular weights within the range of from about 10,000 to about 250,000, and preferably from about 25,000 to about 175,000. They are usually employed in proportions of from about 5 to 25, and preferably from about 9 to about lfi, weight percent, based on weight of polyester, low profile additive, plus monomer. Suitable thermoplastic saturated polyester low profile additives are, in general, low molecular weight saturated polymers of polymerizable linear and or cyclic esters and carboxylated saturated polymers of said polymerizable esters having at lease one carboxyl group per molecule. Polymers of linear and or cyclic esters, including carboxylated polymers having an average of at least one carboxyl group per molecule which may be used in accordance with the present invention are those which possess a reduced viscosity of at least about 0.1, and preferably from about 0.15 to about 15 and higher. The preferred polymers of cyclic esters have a reduced viscosity of from about 0.2 to about 10. Suitable polymers are further characterized by the following basic recurring structural Unit IEMI10.1 wherein each R, which can be the same or different, is hydroge n, halogen, i.e., chlorine, bromine, iodine, or fluorine, or a monovalent hydrocarbon radical generally containing a maximum of 12 carbon atoms, and preferably containing a maximum of eight carbon atoms. A is an oxy group, x is an integer having a value of 1 to 4 inclusive y is an integer having a value of 1 to 4 inclusive z is an integer having a value of O or 1, with the proviso that a the sum of x i z is 4 to 6 inclusive and b the total number of R variables which are substituents other than hydrogen does not exceed 2. Illustrative of suitable monovalent hydrocarbon radicals for R are the following alkyl radicals such as methyl, ethyl, isopropyl, n butyl, sec butyl, t butyl, n hexyl, 2 ethylhexyl, n dodecyl, chloroethyl, chloropropyl and the like alkoxy radicals such as methoxy, ethoxy, n propoxy, n hexoxy, n dodecoxy and the like aryl radicals such as phenyl, ethyl phenyl, n propylphenyl, n butylphenyl and the like aryloxy radicals such as phenoxy, n propylphenoxy, n butylphenoxy and the like cycloaliphatic radicals such as cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl and the like. In one emobidment, desirable polymers of cyclic esters are characterized by both basic recurring structural Unit I supra and basic recurring structuralUnit II, as are obtained from a mixture containing a cyclic ester and a cyclic monomer such as ethylene oxide, propylene oxide and the like.EMI11.1 wherein each R , is as defined for R of Unit 1, or in which the two R variables together with the ethylene moiety of the oxyethylene chain of Unit II form a saturated cycloalipnatic hydrocarbon ring having from four to eight carbon atoms inclusive. It is preferred that recurring Unit II contains from two to twelve carbon atoms inclusive. The interconnection of Unit I and Unit II does not involve or result in the direct bonding of two pxy groups i.e., 0 0 . Particularly preferred polymers of cyclic esters are those which are characterized by the oxypentamethylene carbonyl chain as seen in basic recurring structural Unit IIIEMI11.2 wherein each R1 is hydrogen or lower alkyl, that is alkyl having a maximum of 4 carbon atoms, with the proviso that no more than three R1 variables are substituents other than hydrogen. Thermoplastic saturated polymers of linear and or cyclic esters are well known and the carboxylated saturated esters are well known and such thermoplastic saturated polymers, and particularly polymers prepared from epsilon caprolactones, have been advantageously employed as low profile additives. Reference, for example, is made to U. S. Patent Nos. 3,549,586 and 3,668,178 to Comstock et al. for descriptions of thermoplastic saturated polyester low profile additives and carboxylated thermoplastic saturated polyester low profile additives prepared from cyclic esters. Also included are polyesters based on diacids, such as adpic acid, and diols, such as 1,6 hexanediol. These polyesters are described in, for example, U.S.Patents 3,909,483 3,994,853 3,736,278 and 3,929,868. The thermoplastic saturated polyester low profile additives may usually be employed in the compositions of this invention in proportions similar to those of thermoplastic vinyl acetate polymers, i.e., in proportions of from about 5 to about 25 weight percent, and preferably from about 10 to about 20 weight percent, based on the weight of polyester, plus thermoplastic polymer, plus monomer. Also suitable in certain aspects of this invention are thermoplastic polyalkyl acrylate or methacrylate low profile additives including, for example, homopolymers of methyl methacrylate, ethyl methacrylate, butyl methacrylate, methyl acrylate, ethyl acrylate copolymers of methyl methacrylate and lower alkyl esters of acrylic and methacrylic acids, and copolymers of methyl methacrylate with minor amounts of one or more of the following lauroyl methacrylate, isobornyl methacrylate, acrylamide, hydroxyethyl methacrylate, styrene, 2 ethylhexyl acrylate, acrylonitrile, methacrylic acid, polystyrene, styreneCopolymers, such as, styrene butadiene copolymers, cellulose acetate butyrate, alkylene oxide polymers, and the like. Molecular weight of the alkyl acrylate or methacrylate polymers useful in the invention may vary over a wide range, from 10,000 to 1,000,000, and preferably from 25,000 to 500,000. The thermoplastic polymer should be present in amounts ranging from about 1 to about 25 percent by weight, based on the weight of polyester, plus low profile additive, plus monomer, and preferably from about 5 to about 20 percent by weight. An optional component of the compositions of the invention is a viscosity reducing agent. In one aspect the invention employs, generally in combination with thermoplastic vinyl acetate polymer and thermoplastic saturated polyester low profile addititves, a viscosity reducing agent which is an aliphatic monocarboxylic acid having at least 6 carbon atoms. The aliphatic monocarboxylic acid employed usually has at least 6 carbon atoms in the chain, and is frequently a saturated or unsaturated fatty acid having from 6 to 24 or more carbon atoms in the chain. Such carboxylic acids may be caproic hexanoic , caprylic octanoic , capric C10 , lauric CzL2 , myristic C14 , palmitic C16 , palmitoleic C16 , stearic Clg , r oleic C18 , linoleic C18 , lineolenic C18 , and the like acids, and the acids may be either straight chain or branched chain. The viscosity reducing agent can be present in amounts ranging from 0.4 to about 6 weight percent, and preferably from about 1 to about 4 weight percent, based on the combined weight of thermosetting resin, copolymerizable monomer, and low profile additive. The unsaturated fatty acid esters which may be used herein include tall oil, soybean oil, linseed oil, tallates, such as 2 ethyl hexyl tallate, glycerol tallate, pentaerythritol tallate, glycerol oleate and the like. The unsaturated fatty acid ester is present in amounts of from about 1 to about 20, preferably from about 2 to about 8 percent, based on the weight of polyester, plus low profile additive, plus monomer. The polyester molding composition may also contain one or more of the known types of conventional additives, which are employed for their known purposes in the usual amounts. The following are illustrative of such additives 1. Polymerization initiators such as t butyl hydroperoxide, t butyl perbenzoate, benzoyl peroxide, cumene hydroperoxide, methyl ethyl ketone peroxide, and others known to the art. The polymerization initiator is employed in a catalytically effective amount, such as from about 0.3 to about 2 to 3 weight percent, based on the weight of polyester plus monomer plus low profile additive 2. Fillers such as clay, hydrated alumina, silica, calcium carbonate and others known to the art 3.Reinforcing fillers such as glass fibers or fabrics, asbestos fibers or fabrics, various organic fibers or fabrics such as those made of polypropylene, acrylonitrile vinyl chloride copolymers, and others known to the art and 4. Mold release agents or lubricants, such as zinc stearate, calcium stearate, and others known to the art. 5. Rubbers or elastomers such as a homopolymers or copolymers of conjugated dienes having a weight average molecular weight of 30,000 to 400,000 or higher as described in U. S. Patent 4,020,036. The conjugated dienes contain from 4 12 carbon atoms per molecule such as 1,3 butadiene, isoprene, and the like b epihalohydrin homopolymers, a copolymer of two or more epihalohydrin monomers, or a copolymer of an epihalohydrin monomer s with an oxide monomer s having a number average molecular weight Mn which varies from about 800 to about 50,000 as described in U. S.Patent 4,101,604 c chioroprene polymers including homopolymers of chloroprene and copolymers of chioroprene with sulfur and or with at least one copolymerizable organic monomer wherein chloroprene constitutes at least 50 weight percent of the organic monomer make up of the copolymer as described in U. S. Patent 4,161,471 d hydrocarbon polymers including ethylene propylene dipolymers and copolymers of ethylene propylene and at least one nonconjugated diene, such as ethylene propylene hexadiene terpolymers and ethylene propylene l, 4 hexadiene nobornadiene, as described in U. S. Patent 4,161,471 e conjugated diene butyl elastomers, such as copolymers consisting of from 85 to 99.5 by weight of a C4 C7 iso olefin combined with 15 to 0.5 by weight of a conjugated multi olefin having 4 to 14 carbon atoms, copolymers of isobutylene and isoprene where a major portion of the isoprene units combined therein have conjugated diene unsaturation as described in U. S. Patent 4,160,759. Once formulated, the compositions can be molded into thermoset articles of desired shape, particularly thermoset articles such as automobile fenders, front end panels, and the like. The actual molding cycle will, of course, depend upon the exact composition being molded as well as upon the nature of a particular cured product desired. Suitable moldings cycles are conducted at temperatures of the order of from about 100 C to about 1820C for periods of time ranging from about 0.5 minutes to about 5 minutes. The shrinkage data molding conditions for making 12 X 12 X 1 8 inch plaques were two minutes at 1480C, and 800 psi unless indicated otherwise. The molding viscosities were measured on paste samples containing all of the ingredients except the fiberglass using a Brookfield HBT 5X Viscometer TF spindle at 5 rpm. General Procedure for Preparation of Bulk Molding Compound BMC Formulations All the liquid components were weighed individually into a Hobart mixing pan placed on a Toledo balance. The pan was attached to a Model C 100 Hobert mixer in a hood . The agitator was started to slow speed, then increased to medium spped to completely mix the liquids over a period of 3 5 minutes. The agitator was then stopped and the internal mold release agent and or fatty acid was next added to the liquid from an ice cream carton. The Hobart mixer was restarted and the mold release agent mixed with the liquid until it was completely wet out. The filler was next added to the pan contents agitator off then mixed, using medium to high speed, until a consistent paste was obtained.The mixer was again stopped and the weighed amount of thickening agent was mixed into the paste over a period of 2 3 minutes, the mixer was again stopped and about 175 grams of the paste were removed from the pan using a large spatula and transferred to a wide mouthed 4 oz.bottle. This paste sample was stored in the capped bottle at room temperature and the viscosity was measured periodically using a Model HBT SX Brookfield Synchro Lectric Viscometer on a Helipath Stand. After removal of the paste sample, the contents were reweighed and styrene loss made up, the chopped glass fibers were added slowly from an ice cream carton to the pan with the mixer running on slow speed. The mixer was run for about 30 seconds after all the glass was in the paste. This short time gave glass wet out without glass degradation. The pan was then removed from the mixer and separate portions of the BMC mix of about 450 grams each were removed using spatulas and transferred to aluminum foil lying on a balance an balance in the hood . The mix was tightly wrapped in the aluminum foil to prevent loss of styrene via evaporation and stored at room temperature until the viscosity of the retained paste sample reached molding viscosity. The weight of the BMC added to the foil varies with the molding application. General Procedure for Preparation of Sheet Molding Compound SMC Formulations All the liquid components were weighed individually into a 5 gallon open top container placed on a toledo balance. The contents of the container were then mixed in a hood with a high speed Cowles type dissolver. The agitator was started at a slow speed, then increased to medium speed to completely mix the liquids over a period of 2 3 minutes. The mold release agent, if one is desired, was next added to the liquids from an ice cream carton and mixedçuntil completely dispersed.The filler was next added gradually from a tared container until a consistent paste was obtained and the contents were then further mixed to a minimum temperature of 900F. The thickener was next mixed into the paste over a period of 2 3 minutes, the mixer was stopped and approximately 175 grams of the paste was removed from the container and transferred to a wide mouthed 4 oz. bottle. The paste sample was stored in the capped bottle at room temperature and the viscosity measured periodically using a Model HBT 5X Brookfield Synchro Tectric Viscometer on a HelipathStand. The balance of the paste is next added to the doctor boxes on the SMC machine where it is further combined with fiber glass approximately 1 fiber . The sheet molding compound SMC is then allowed to mature to molding viscosity and then molded into the desired article. Miniature Deck Lids Miniature deck lids were designed like automobile deck lids with a 15 x 15 inch flat area and a 3 inch draw at one end. On one side of the flat section, several ribs and bosses are included. Visual observations of these miniature deck lids as molded and after painting with a gloss black paint enables one to compare sink over the ribs and bosses, craze cracking, surface smoothness, glass pattern, laking and overall moldability. The miniature deck lid mold is installed in a 200 Ton Lawton hydraulic press. The molds contain ejector pins for release of the molded part and are heated with circulating oil.The male core is installed in the bottom of the press and the female cavity at the top. Temperatures of the two molds are controlled separately. Pressure of the press can be varied up to 200 Tons wifh variable time cycles so that the same part can be molded at several pressures. The speed at which the press closes can also be varied as well as the cure cycle for the molded part. All of these were varied during the molding ofSMC formulations containing the surface improvers.Placement of the change pattern on the male core mold was also varied. The molded panel was allowed to cool and was then evaluated. DESCRIPTION OF THE MATERIALSUSS 13031. A highly reactive unsaturated polyester resin believed to be ortho phthalic anhydride modified containing approximately 40 weight percent of styrene sold by USS Chemicals Polyester Unit.LP40A. A product of Union Carbide Corporation which is a copolymer of vinyl acetate and acrylic acid 40 weight percent dissolved in styrene 60 weight percent . LP 1. 35 parts of LP 40A and 4 parts of a 2 1 mixture by weight of octyl epoxytallate and vinyl acetate.VR 3. A mixture of commercial fatty acids sold by UnionCarbide Corporation. Cal White II. A calcium carbonate filler of approximately 5 microns diameter solby Georgia Marble. PDI 1803. A black pigment despersion sold by PigmentDispersions, Inc.Koppers B 363 66 An adipic acid modified polyester resin sold by Koppers Company.B side composition. A composition containing 45 percentLP 90 9.0 percent calcium oxide 43 percent Cal White II and 3 percent PDI 1803.LP 2. 35 parts of LP 40A and 4 parts of 4 1 by weight mixture of vinyl acetate and ERL 4221.Stypol 40 3919. A polyester resin sold by FreemanChemical Company.ERL 4221. The following epoxy compound sold by UnionCarbide CorporationEMI21.1 Epoxide No. Eq. Wit. Functionality 131 143 2 B 2 side composition. A composition of 20 percentVSS 17089. 20 percent LP 85 2.0 percent of zinc stearate 1.4 percent of PDI l803 52.85 percent of CalWhite II and 3.75 percent of magnesium oxide MerckMaglite A .USS 17089.An unsaturated polyester thickener dispersion vehicle sold by USS Chemicals.LP 85. A 33 weight percent solution of poly vinyl acetate in styrene sold by Union CarbideCorporation.LP 90. A 40 weight percent solution of polytsinyl acetate in styrene sold by Union Carbide Corporation, USS 13047, The same polyester as USS 13031 except theSPI 1800F gel time is extended from 10 minutes to 20 minutes with additional inhibitor. EHT. 2 ethylhexyl tallate. METHOD OF SHRINKAGE MEASUREMENT A 12 x 12 x 1 8 flat panel is molded in a highly polished chrome plated matched metal die mold in a 75 ton Queens Hydraulic press. The exact dimensibns of the four sides of this mold are measured to the ten thousandths of an inch at room temperature. the exact length of the four sides of the flat molded panel is also determined to the the ten thousandths of an inch. These measurements are substituted into the equation below aa b inch inch shrinkage inch inch shrinkage x 1000 mils inch shrinkage. a the sum of the lengths of the four sides of the mold. b the sum of the lengths of the four sides of the molded panel. Examples 1 to 3 Controls A and B Bulk molding compound formulations were prepared as described above from the materials shown inTable I. The formulations were molded into 12 X 12 X 0.10 inch flat panels in a 75 ton Querns Hydraulic press at 310 3000F in 2 1 2 minutes. The shrinkage was then measured as described above. Also the surface was visually rated. The results are shown in Table I. TABLE I BMC SHRINKAGE CONTROL EXPERIMENTSExamples A B 1 2 3USS 13031 65 65 65 65 65 UCC LP4OA 35 35 35 r 35LP 1 38 Vinyl Acetate 1.33 ERT 3 6 2.67VR 3 2 2 2 2 2Zinc Stearate 2 2 2 2 2 CalShite II 170 170 170 170 170 t Butylperbenzoate 1.7 1.7 1.7 1.7 1.7PDI 1803 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 33 MgO dispersion 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 1 4 fiberglass 25 25 25 25 25 wt. Aged one dayMolding Viscosity, 29.6mm 25.6mm 21.6mm 20.0mm 27.2mm cpsShrinkage mils inch 0.22 0.66 0.70 0.95 0.83 Surface evaluation 3 2 1 A A Examples 4 and 5 Control C Sheet molding compound formulations were prepared as described above from the materials shown inTable II. The formulations were molded into miniature deck lids at about 90 mils thickness as described above in 300 2900F in 2 1 2 minute at a pressure of 1000 psi. The surface smoothness was visually rated. The results are shown in Table II. TABLE II SMC EXPERIMENTSExamples Control C 4 5Koppers B363 66 64.5 64.5 64.5 gLP 1 38 LP 40A 34 34EHT 2.67 , 3Vinyl Acetate 1.33 Styrene 1.5 1.5 1.5CalWhite II 180 180 180VR 3 2 2 2Zinc Stearate 2 2 2 t butylperbenzoate 1.7 1.7 1.7Water1 0.17 0.17 0.17 B Side 11.6 CaO powder 1.15 1.15 2 glass fiber wt. 27.3 27.0 27.0Molding viscosity, cps 12.8mm 19.2mm 17.6mmSurface smoathnees evaluation visual Surface evaluation 5 5 4 C 1The wA side was adjusted to this percentage water content. Examples 6 and 7 Control D Sheet molding compound formulations were prepared as described above from the materials shown inTable III. The formulations were molded into miniature deck lids at about 90 mils thickmess as described above at 300 2900F in 80 seconds at a pressure of 1000 psi. The shrinkage was then measured as described above. Also, the surface was visually rated. The results are shown im Table III. TABLE III SMC EXPERIMENTSExamples Control D 6 7USS 13047 65 65 65LP 2 37 LP 40A 33 34Vinyl Acetate 1.0 EHT 3.0 3.0 Calwhite II 170 170 170 VR 3 1 5 1.5 1.5Zinc Stearate l..0 1.0 1.0 t Butylperbenzoate 0..72 0.72 0.72 t Butylperoctoate 50 l..0 1.0 1.0 B 2 Side 26..3 26.3 26 3 2 fiberglass wt. 23..1 24.6 24.5Molding Viscosity, cps 16mm 12.5mm 16mm Shrinkage, mils inch 0.60 0.98 0.98 Surface Evaluation 7 6 D Example 8t Control E Sheet molding compound formulations were prepared as described above from the materials shown inTable IV. The.formulations were molded into miniature deck lids at about 90 mils thickness as described above at 300 2900F in 2 1 2 minutes in 2 1 2 minutes at a pressure of 1000 psi. The shrinkage was then measured as described above. Also, the surface was visually rated. The results are shown in Table IV. TABLE IV SMC EXPERIMENTSExamples Control E 8Stypol 40 3919 63 63Parabenzoquinone, ppm 100 100 LP 40A 37 37EHT 4CalWhite II 180 180Zinc Stearate 2 .. 2VR 3 2 2 t Butylperbenzoate 1.7 1.7Water, 1 0.17 0.17CaO powder 1.0 1.1 2 fiberglass wt. 26.3 27.6Molding Viscosity, cps 28.4mm 27.7mmShrinkage, mils inch 1.0 1.2Surface evaluation 8 E 1 A side adjusted to this percentage water content.