# Process for recovering magnesium.

## Abstract
Magnesium is recovered from a superheated gaseous mixture comprising essentially carbon monoxide gas and magnesium vapor by shock cooling the vaporous composition with a spray of liquid magnesium chloride flux composition preferably heated to a temperature near its vaporization temperature. The liquid magnesium chloride flux composition is instantly vaporized with a large absorption of high temperature heat and the vaporous mixture is thereby cooled to a temperature somewhat about the vaporization temperature of magnesium. The resultant vaporous magnesium is recovered by condensation to produce a molten magnesium product.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. The process for recovering magnesium from a vaporous composition comprising magnesium and carbon monoxide, said composition having a temperature above the tempe rature at which substantial reaction of magnesium and carbon monoxide occurs which comprises contacting said vaporous composition with a coolant selected from the qroup consisting of magnesium chloride heated to a temperature between about 1100 C and 1400 C and a mag nesium chloride flux composition heated to a tempera ture between its boiling point and about 2000C below its boiling point so as to vaporize a substantial por tion of said liquid magnesium chloride or flux composi tion and to reduce the temperature of said vaporous composition to below about 15000C. substantially instan taneously in order to minimize back oxidation of mag nesium with carbon monoxide and recovering condensed magnesium. 2. The process of claim 1 wherein said liquid magnesium chloride has a temperature between about 12000C and 14000C, 3. The process of claim 1 wherein said coolant is a mag nesium chloride flux composition free of oxides. 4. The process of claim 1 wherein the vaporous composition is contacted with a liquid flux composition for magne sium subsequent to contacting said vaporous composition with said coolant thereby to condense vaporous magnesium. 5. The process of claim 1 wherin an inert gas is admixed with said vaporous composition prior to admixing said vaporous composition with said coolant, said inert gas having a temperature above the temperature at which sub stantial reaction of magnesium and carbon monoxide in admixture occurs. 6. The process of claim 4 wherein said molten flux utilized subsequent to contact with said coo land comprises mag nesium chloride. 7. The process for recovering magnesium from a vaporous composition comprising magnesium and carbon monoxide, said composition having a temperature above the tempera ture at which substantial reaction of magnesium and carbon monoxide occurs which comprises contacting said vaporous composition with a spray of a liquid coolant selected from the group consisting of magnesium chloride heated to a temperature between about I ooOC and 1400 C and a magnesium chloride flux composition heated to a temperature between its boiling point and about 200 C below its boiling point, said contact being effec tive to vaporize substantially all of said liquid coolant and to cool said vaporous composition to below about 1500 C and contacting said vaporous composition having a reduced temperature with a molten flux composition for magnesium in order to condense said magnesium. 8. The Drocess of claim 7 wherein an inert gas is admixed with said vaporous composition prior to admixing said vaporous composition with liquid coolant, said inert gas having a temperature about 1900 C. 9. The process of claim 7 wherin an inert gas is admixed with said vaporous composition subsequent to contacting said vaporous composition with liquid coolant.

## Description
Background Of The InventionThis invention relates to a carbothermic process for producing magnesium from magnesium oxide. More particularly, the present invention provides means for greatly decreasing the backoxidation of magnesium vapor by carbon monoxide as the furnace gases are cooled, which has heretofore prevented successful commercial development of a carbothermic magnesium process.It has long been recognized among those skilled in the art that production of magnesium from magnesium oxide by reduction with carbon in an arc furnace is theoretically the most efficient and cheapest method for the commercial production of magnesium. In particular, it offers many advantages over metallothermic processes where a reducing agent such as silicon or aluminum requires an expensive preliminary operation requiring electric energy. In a carbothermic process, the magnesia containing raw material is subjected to high temperature reduction by carbon in an arc furnace. The product initially produced comprises a vaporous composition which is theoretically approximately a 50 50 mixture of magnesium vapor and carbon monoxide gas.Thermodynamic calculations for the reaction show that the theoretical reaction equilibrium temperature at atmospheric pressure is about 1875 0C and in order to carry out the reaction at a reasonable rate, it has been found necessary to operate at temperatures on the order of 20000C. This thermodynamic constraint is undesirable since it causes extreme difficulty in cooling the furnace gases down to the equilibrium temperature of almost 18750C, rapidly enough to prevent excessive back oxidation of magnesium by reaction with carbon monoxide to form magnesium oxide.The reaction in question, which is reversible as shown,EMI2.1 reaches equilibrium at about 18750C at atmospheric pressure of the CO, proceeds violently toward oxidation of magnesium if the gaseous mixture of Mg and CO is cooled below that temperature and above 187500 to the operating temperature of about 20000C, the reaction proceeds rapidly to the right to effect substantially complete reduction of the magnesium oxide to form magnesium vapor and carbon monoxide.On the other hand, I have found that at temperatures below about 18750C, the rate of back oxidation of magnesium vapor by carbon monoxide decreases rapidly with the temperature to such an extent that the reaction rate at 15000C is less than 1 of the rate at the equilibrium temperatures of 187500 and at a temperature of 11000C a little above the dew point, substantially no back oxidation of magnesium occurs provided the magnesium vapor is condensed quickly.Prior attempts to cool the reaction product from the carbothermic reaction comprising magnesium and carbon monoxide down to the temperature where back oxidation becomes insubstantial have proven unsuccessful. It has been proposed to utilize a wide variety of coolants including methane gas, solid powdered magnesium and a stream of relatively cool 6500C 6700C liquid magnesium and relatively cool magnesium chloride. While it has been proposed to utilize these coolants in amounts sufficient to extract the heat necessary to cool the vaporized magnesium down to the point where insubstantial back oxidation occurs, each approach has proven unsuccessful since the cooling obtained is too slow.That is, each of these approaches effects a rate of cooling such that the vaporized magnesium experiences a substantial residence time within the temperature range of between abount 1875 0C and 15000C. Since, during the residence time between 187500 and 15000C, the vaporized magnesium is in intimate contact with carbon monoxide, substantial back oxidation occurs to an extent as to render these processes uneconomical and commercially unfeasible.It would be highly desirable to provide a carbothermic process for forming magnesium from magnesium oxide wherein vaporized magnesium can be recovered without substantial back oxidation. Furthermore, it would be highly desirable to provide such a process wherein the residence time for vaporized magnesium product in contact with carbon monoxide within the temperature range of 187500 and about 15000C is minimized. Furthermore, it would be highly desirable to provide such a process wherein substantially pure magnesium can be recovered easily.Summary Of The InventionThe present inventioqprovides a process for cooling a vaporous product containing carbon monoxide and vaporous magnesium down to a temperature where there is little or no reaction of the magnesium with carbon monoxide. In addition, the present invention provides a means for cooling vaporous magnesium sufficiently rapidly as to allow the use of carbothermic process wherein the magnesium vapor is produced from a magnesia containing feed and a carbonaceous reducing agent in the presence of an electric arc generated by electrodes. The means for cooling the vaporous magnesium comprises liquid magnesium having a temperature close to the vaporization temperature of magnesium in sufficient amounts as to cool the vaporous magnesium down to the magnesium vaporization temperature of about 11000C substantially instantaneously.This means of cooling can be supplemented by introducing inert gas in admixture with the vapor containing vaporous magnesium chloride or magnesium chloride flux compositions free of oxides. Furthermore, this method can be supplemented by a second cooling step following cooling with liquid magnesium whereby a flux for magnesium is sprayed into the vaporous magnesium for intimate contact therewith.Brief Description Of The DrawingsFig. 1 is a schematic view of one embodiment of this invention.Fig. 2 is a schematic view of a second embodiment of this invention.Description Of Specific EmbodimentsAs shown in Fig. 1, the process of this invention utilizes a furnace 10 having electrodes 12 which extends into the reaction bed 14 which is comprised mainly of magnesium oxide and a carbonaceous reducing material such as coke. The magnesium oxide and coke are introduced into the furnace 10 by means of conduit 16 which also is provided with means for closing the conduit to the atmosphere during reaction. The reaction bed lit rests on hearth 18. When it is desired to initiate and maintain reaction in the reaction bed, electric arcs are generated between the electrodes 12 in order to effect reaction between magnesium oxide and the carbon to form magnesium vapor and carbon monoxide. During reaction, the vaporous composition comprising magnesium and carbon monoxide rises towards the top of the furnace and exits therefrom through opening 20. At the entrance 20, the vaporous composition gernerally is a temperature between about 22000C and about 1900 0C. Thus, the temperature of the vaporous composition is within a sufficiently elevated range such that there is little or no back reaction between the vaporous magnesium and the carbon monoxide.Before the magnesium carbon monoxide vaporous composition is cooled to a temperature below about 1900 C, it is contacted with molten magnesium chloride which is heated to a temperature between about 11000C and 1400 C, preferably between about 12000C and about 1400 C in heater 22 and thereafter is introduced into opening 20 for intimate contact therein with the vaporous composition. Alternatively, contact of the vaporous magnesium can be made with a liquid magnesium chloride flux composition containing an alkali metal chloride but free of oxides haven a temperature near its boiling point, i.e., within about 2000C of its boiling point.The use of the magnesium chloride flux has the advantage of lowering the temperature of the vaporous magnesium further than with pure magnesium chloride in the shock cooling step, but has the disadvantage of requiring additional separation steps to recover pure magnesium. Typical flux compositions comprise KCL 60 wt , MgCl2 40 wt or MgCl2 50 wt Olo , KCl 30 wt and NaCl 20 wt .In order to afford intimate contact between the liquid magnesium chloride or magnesium chloride flux composition and the vaporous composition, the liquid magnesium is introduced as a spray. Furthermore, the liquid magnesium chloride or flux composition is introduced under conditions such that substantially all of the liquid magnesium chloride or flux composition is vaporized while minimizing the temperature to which the vaporized magnesium chloride or flux composition is subsequently heated by the vaporous composition of magnesium and carbon monoxide. By operating in this manner, substantial advantages are obtained as compared to the prior art proposals wherein cooling was effected with liquid magnesium chloride or magnesium in a relatively cooled condition, e.g., 650 0C to 6700C.By operating in the manner described herein, the amount of heat extracted from the vaporous composition of magnesium and carbon monoxide is substantially equal to the heat of vaporization of the introduced liquid magnesium chloride or flux composition rather than relying solely upon reduction by trnsfer of sensible heat orom the vaporous composition to the liquid magnesium chloride or flux composition. By utilizing the heat of vaporization to cool the vaporous composition as described herein, the vaporous composition removed from the furnace 10 is reduced in temperature to about the magnesium dew point, i.e., below about 1500 0C, preferalby below about 1100 C and more preferably between about 10500C and 11500C substantially instantaneously.In contrast, prior art techniques utilizing low temperature liquid magnesium or magnesium chloride do not provide the desired substantial instantaneous reduction in temperature of the vaporous composition since these techniques rely upon a rise in the sensible heat of the liquid magnesium or magnesium chloride coolant which provides a far slower rate of heat extraction than the technique utilized in the present invention which relies upon the heat of vaporization of the liquid magnesium chloride or flux composition.Accordingly, the present invention provides a procedure wherein the temperature of the liquid magnesium is reduced from a high temperature range within which substantially no back reaction between carbon monoxide and magnesium is effected to a substantially lower temperature range wherein little or no back reaction of magnesium vapor occurs. The magnesium having a temperature within this lower temperature range then can be cooled at a slower rate utilizing transfer of sensible heat so as to condense and recover the magnesium. The vaporous composition resulting from the initial cooling step is passed from opening 20 through conduit 24 into scrubbing tower 26. Within scrubbing tower 26, the vaporous composition comprising magnesium and carbon monoxide is contacted with a molten flux composition for magnesium such as a conventional magnesium chloride composition.Table Typical Flux Compositions by weight Example 1 2 3 it 5 6MgCl2 22 10 40 15 10 CaC12 23 40 50 25 25 40NaCl2 54 30 30 20 30 20KCl 20 30 15 20 30 alkaline earth chlorides 45 50 50 65 40 50 alkali metal chlorides 511 50 50 35 60 50 Other components, such as CaF2, LiF or MgO may be present. See generally, for discussion of suitable flux compositions, Principles of Magnesium Technology,E. F. Ensley, ed. Pergammon Press London, 1966 ,pp. 27 33, 76 78, 84 125. Note Flux 1 has a melting point below L100OC and high fluidity. As is well known, the flux composition is utilized to separate impurities such as unreacted magnesium oxide from the magnesium. Product gas rich in carbon monoxide and containing little or no magnesium is removed from scrubbing tower 26 through conduit 29. The flux compositions shown in Table I also can be utilized in the initial shock cooling step. As shown in Fig. 1, molten flux enters scrubbing tower 26 through conduit 28 and 30 and from there passed into conduit 32 which is provided with a plurality of spray nozzles. Generally, the molten flux has a temperature of usually between about it000C and 5000C in order to effect further temperature reduction of the vaporous magnesium so that it is condensed to form a liquid.The liquid magnesium and molten flux pass downwardly through the scrubbing tower 26 to contact baffle 32 from which the liquid flows into container 36. In container 36, the liquid magnesium separates into a top strata 38 floating on a bottom strata 40 which comprises the flux. Typical equilization temperatures within container 36 for the magnesium and the molten flux is between about 7000C and 750 C. The liquid magnesium is drawn out through conduit 42 for further processing such as in a foundry itit to form magnesium ingots. The molten flux 40 is drawn off through conduit 46 to heat exchanger 48 so that the flux can be cooled td a desired temperature and passed through conduit 50 and conduits 28 and 30 for further use for contact with the vaporous magnesium. In the heat exchanger 48, the flux is cooled such as by conventional heat exchange with water which enters heat exchanger 48 through conduit 52 and leaves heat exchanger 48 as steam through conduit 54.Referring to Fig. 2, the process of this invention is shown schematically without the use of a scrubbing tower.The process utilizes reactor 10 which is provided with the electrodes 12. The coke and magnesium oxide reactants are introduced into reactor 10 through opening 16 to form a reaction bed 14. The reaction bed lii rests upon hearth 18. When it is desired to effect reaction between the coke and the magnesium oxide at a temperature between about 19000C and 22000C, electical power is supplied to the electrodes 12 to cause arcing between them. The vaporous reaction product comprising magnesium and carbon monoxide rises from the reaction bed 14 and exits the reactor 10 through opening 60.The vaporous composition exiting the reactor 10 has a temperature between about 19000C and about 2200 0C, i.e., a temperature range wherein little or no back reaction of the carbon monoxide and magnesium occurs. This vaporous composition is contacted with molten magnesium chloride or flux composition which enters the opening 60 through conduit 62 at a temperature near its vaporization temperature as explained above prior to permitting the vaporous reaction composition to cool within a temperature range of which substantial back reaction.of magnesium and carbon monoxide occurs.As stated above, the contact of the vaporous reaction composition and the molten magnesium chloride or flux composition effects a temperature reduction of the vaporous composition to about the magnesium dew point, i.e., below about 1100 C. The resultant vaporous composition containing magnesium and carbon monoxide enters spray chamber 64 within which it is contacted with a spray of molten flux which has the effect of scavenging impurities from the magnesium product and effects condensation of the magnesium vapor to magnesium liquid. The magnesium liquid forms a floating layer 77 on the liquid flux 68. Generally, the temperature of the liquid flux and liquid magnesium is between about 7000C and 750 C. The uncondensed carbon monoxide is removed from chamber 64 through conduit 70 for further use as desired such as a fuel. The liquid magnesium is removed from the magnesium layer 66 through conduit 72 for further processing such as to form ingots in a foundry 74. The molten flux 68 is directed to heat exchanger 76 by means of conduit 78 wherein it is cooled to a temperature between about it000C and 700 0C for recycle by means of conduit 80 to spray chamber 64. Any conventional heat exchanger 76 can be utilized, for example, one utilizing cool water entering through conduit 82 and from which steam is removed.