# ANTI SKID BRAKE CONTROL SYSTEM WITH FAIL SAFE ARRANGEMENT

## Claims
Bremsantiblockiersystem mit Fehlerermittlung, welches System folgendes aufweist

## Description
The present invention relates to an anti skid brake control system with a fail safe arrangement as disclosed in US A 3 744 851 and described below with some essential details and with reference to figure 1. In the known system fail safe detection is achieved by one of three possibilities. The first way is to check whether control signals that should change between high and low levels are continuously present. In case a continuous potential is detected this criterion is,utilized for disabling the automatic control. With this first approach it is not possible to detect a failure when all control signals change between high and low levels in a wrong manner. The second way is to check whether continuous potentials are provided at the valves of the non driven wheels with non actuated brake. With this method it is not possible to detect a failure of the system during braking. Besides, it is necessary to use an additional brake actuated signal. The third way is to check the control system continuously via a program with non actuated brakes. Such a checking with a program is uncertain and not as reliable as the checking with a hardware arrangement. Besides, there is the disadvantage of no checking during braking. It is the object of the present invention to provide an anti skid control system with fault detection, as generally known from US A 3 744 851, with a fault detecting means for reliable checking of the system also during periods of braking. The invention is defined by the features of claim 1. The inventive system comprises a fault detecting means that checks combinations of signals that are provided during operation of the system and provides a fault signal in case a combination is detected which is not possible during faultless operation. The present invention will be understood more fully from the detailed description of the invention given herebelow and from the accompanying drawings of the invention, which, however, should not be taken as limitative to the invention but for elucidation and explanation only In advance of the description of the preferred embodiment of an anti skid control system according to the present invention, general anti skid operation will be described for better understanding of the invention, with reference to Figure 1. Such anti skid control has been disclosed in the U.S. Patent 3,744,851 issued on July 10, 1973 to M. H. Burchardt et al. In this U.S. Patent, there is disclosed a Brake Force Regulating System for vehicles, especially for motor vehicles, for anti skid controlling the brake force based on the rotation speed of a wheel, wheel slippage and wheel acceleration. The disclosure of this U.S. Patent is herewith incorporated by reference. In this anti skid control method, first and second threshold values Vc₁ and Vc₂ are determined by multiplying vehicle speed Vc by two predetermined coefficients. The first and second thresholds Vc₁ and Vc₂ define wheel slippage ranges λ₀, λ₁ and λ₂. Further, a wheel acceleration is determined from a variation of the wheel rotation speed V The wheel rotation speed V On the other hand, if the wheel rotation speed increases beyond the second threshold Vc₂, the λ₂ signal level goes LOW and as the wheel rotation speed further increases beyond the first threshold Vc₁, the λ₁ signal level goes LOW. Here, as will be appreciated from Figure 1, there is no wheel rotation speed at which the λ₁ signal will be LOW and the λ₂ signal will be HIGH. Therefore, if such a signal condition occurs, it shows that the anti skid control system is malfunctioning. The fail safe arrangement according to the present invention is intended to detect such errors in the anti skid control system and perform the fail safe operation in response thereto. Referring now to Figure 2, there is illustrated the preferred embodiment of an anti skid control system with the fail safe arrangement of the present invention. A wheel rotation speed sensor 1 is adapted to produce a pulse train with a frequency proportional to the wheel rotation speed. The pulse train is converted into an analog signal by a frequency to voltage converter F V converter 2, which analog signal V On the other hand, when the wheel acceleration α As will be appreciated, all possible combination of the outputs e₁ to e₄ are shown hereabove. If a combination different from the shown five combinations occurs, it means that the anti skid control is malfunctioning. Therefore, by detecting combinations different from the foregoing five combinations, errors in the anti skid control can be detected. On the other hand, a vehicle speed sensor 5c produces a vehicle speed signal indicative of the vehicle speed. The vehicle speed signal is fed to a vehicle speed signal generator 5 which is adapted to produce a reference signal Vc at a voltage related to vehicle speed and which changes at a rate related to vehicle acceleration. The reference signal Vc is fed to reference voltage generators 5a and 5b. The reference voltage generator 5a produces a reference voltage Vc₁ having a value corresponding to 85 of the signal value of the reference signal Vc. On the other hand, the reference voltage generator 5b produces a reference voltage Vc₂ having a value corresponding to 70 of the signal value of the reference signal Vc. The reference voltage generators 5a and 5b are respectively connected to positive input terminals of differential amplifiers 6a and 6b. The analog signal V The outputs e₁ to e₄ and E₁ and E₂ are fed to a logic circuit 15. The logic circuit 15 determines signal level of an inlet signal E The function or distinction in the logic circuit has been illustrated in detail in the above referred U.S. Patent 3,744,851. Referring to Figure 3, when the inlet signal E To carry out the foregoing anti skid brake control operation, the brake system is provided with an inlet valve 22 and an outlet valve 23 in the hydraulic circuit. The inlet valve 22 includes an inlet valve actuator 16 and the outlet valve 23 includes an outlet valve actuator 17, as shown in Figure 3. The inlet valve 22 is connected to a brake master cylinder 25 to receive a working fluid through a passage 26 and is also connected to the wheel cylinder 29 to apply the working fluid thereto. The master cylinder 25 responds to depression of an associated brake pedal 24 to increase the fluid pressure within passage 26. The working fluid is thus fed to the wheel cylinder 29 when a brake pedal 24 is depressed and the inlet valve 22 is opened. The inlet valve actuator 16 is responsive to the HIGH level inlet signal E The outlet valve 23 is connected to the brake master cylinder 25 via a fluid pump 27 and a one way valve 28. When the outlet valve 23 is open the working fluid in the passage between inlet valve 22 and wheel cylinder 29 is fed back to the master cylinder 25 through the fluid pump 27 and the one way valve 28. Thus, the fluid pressure applied to the wheel cylinder 29 is decreased to release the brake pressure. The inlet and outlet valve actuators 16 and 17 are respectively operated by switches 20 and 21 which are turned on in response to the inlet and outlet signals E Returning to Figure 2, the fail safe operation is carried out after detection of errors in the anti skid brake control. In order to detect errors in the anti skid brake control, AND gates 7 and 8 are provided. The AND gate 7 has an input terminal connected to the differential amplifier 4d and an inverting input terminal connected to the differential amplifier 4c. As will be appreciated from the foregoing table, there are no allowable output conditions in which the output e₃ of the differential amplifier 4c is LOW and the output e₄ of the differential amplifier 4d is HIGH, therefore, if the AND gate 7 outputs a HIGH signal, it means the anti skid brake control system is malfunctioning. Likewise, by connecting the differential amplifiers 4a and 4b to the AND gate 8 via an input terminal and an inverting input terminal respectively, errors in the control system can be detected. The AND gates 7 and 8 produce HIGH level signals only when the acceleration comparator is malfunctioning. The output terminals of the AND gates 7 and 8 are connected to the SET input terminal S of an R S type flip flop 12 via an OR gate 11. When the SET terminal receives a HIGH level input, the flip flop 12 produces a SET signal at its Q output terminal to turn ON a transistor Tr1 to illuminate a fault indicator lamp 13 and stops producing a RESET signal at its Likewise, an AND gate 9 is connected to the differential amplifiers 6a and 6b to receive the outputs E₁ and E₂. One of the input terminals of the AND gate 9 is an inverting input terminal connected to the differential amplifier 6a. Thus, the AND gate outputs a HIGH level signal when the output E₁ of the differential amplifier 6a is LOW and the output E₂ of the differential amplifier 6b is HIGH, which is not possible under normal circumstances. The AND gate is also connected to the SET terminal of the flip flop 12 via the OR gate 11 in order to disconnect the anti skid control system when such an erroneous combination of control signals is detected. Another AND gate 10 is connected to the flip flop 12 via the OR gate 11 for fail safe purposes. The AND gate 10 is connected to the logic circuit 15 to receive the outlet signal A It should be noted that when the relay switch 18a is opened and thus both of the inlet and outlet valve actuators 16 and 17 are disabled, the inlet valve 22 remains open and the outlet valve 23 remains closed in order to enable manual braking. It should be additionally noted that the flip flop 12 should be RESET initially in order to enable automatic anti skid control. This can be realized in any of a number of ways which will occur to those skilled in the art. As set forth, according to the present invention, errors in the anti skid control system can be satisfactorily detected and fail safe operation can be performed by disabling the control system.