# Production of monoethylene glycol and ethanol from hydrogenolysis of polyethylene glycols.

## Abstract
This invention relates to a process for cleaving a polyalkylene glycol. e.g., diethylene glycol, containing at least one ether group therein at a carbon to oxygen covalent bond by heating the polyalkylene glycol with molecular hydrogen in the presence of a hydrogenation catalyst, e.g., copper chromite, to produce both monoethylene glycol and ethanol.

## Claims
Claims 1. A process for cleaving a polyalkylene glycol preferably dlethylene glycol containing at least one ether group therein at a carbon to oxygen covalent bond which comprises heating such a polyalkylene glycol with molecular hydrogen in the presence of a hydrogenation catalyst to produce at least one of monoethylene glycol and ethanol. 2. The process of claim 1 wherein the hydrogenation catalyst is a composition comprising at least one of copper, chrominm,molybdenum, tungsten, iron, cobalt, nickel, ruthenium, rhodium, palladium, platinum, iridium, manganese, rhenium, tantalum, vanadium, niobium or zinc. 3. The process of claim 1 wherein the hydrogenation catalyst is a composition comprising copper and chromium or copper, chromium and barium or copper, chromium and manganese or rhodium and calcium or palladium and molybdenum. 4. The process of claim lor 2 wherein the polyalkylene glycol and molecular hydrogen are present in a molar ratio of molecular hydrogen to polyalkylene glycol of from about 1 20 to about 2000 L 5. The process of claim lto 3 wherein the hydrogenation catalyst is present in an amount of from about 0.01 weight percent to about 50 weight percent based on the total weight of the reaction mixture. 6. The process of claim 1 to 4 wherein the polyalkylene glycol has a liquid hourly space velocity of from about 0.01 hr 1 to about 100 hr 1 and molecular hydrogen has a gas hourly space velocity of from about 100 hr 1 to about 100,000 h 1 7. The process of claim ito 5 wherein the reaction temperature is from about 1500C to about 3500C. The process of claim 1 wherein the initial pressure resulting from molecular hydrogen 34.5 270 bar is from about 500 psig to about 4000 psig. 9. The process of claim 1 wherein the monethylene glycol and ethanol are produced at a selectivity of at.least about 50 molar percent.

## Description
PRODUCTION OF MONOETHYLENE GLYCOL AND ETHANOL FROM HYDROGENOLYSIS OF PObYALKYLENE GLYCOLS Brief Summary of the InventionTechnical Field This invention is directed to the production of monoethylene glycol and ethanol by the hydrogenolysis of a polyalkylene glycol, e.g., diethylene glycol. The polyalkylene glycol is cleaved at a carbon to oxygen covalent bond by heating with molecular hydrogen in the presence of a hydrogenation catalyst, e.g., copper chromite, to produce both monoethylene glycol and ethanol.Background Art It is known that monoethylene glycol is commercially produced by the hydrolysis of ethylene oxide which in turn is generated by the oxidation of ethylene1 typically by the reaction of ethylene and oxygen over a silver containing catalyst. Other processes noncommercial for making monoethylene glycol involve reactions of carbon monoxide with hydrogen or formaldehyde, typically in the presence of a certain precious metal catalyst. Major by products of the commercial oxide glycol process are diethylene glycol and higher polyalkylene glycols in amounts up to 10 percent by weight of the total product mixture. However, diethylene glycol may or may not be a commercially desirable by product. For instance, considerably more diethylene glycol by product may be produced from the commercial oxide glycol process than can be utilized profitably.In those instances where the production of diethylene glycol is commercially undesirable, any process capable of efficiently converting this by product to monoethylene glycol, ethanol or other valuable products would be highly desirable. It has been found as a result of the present invention that polyalkylene glycols, e.g., diethylene glycol, can be selectively cleaved at a carbon to oxygen covalent bond by heating the polyalkylene glycol with molecular hydrogen in the presence of a hydrogenation catalyst to efficiently produce at least one of monoethylene glycol and ethanol. The following prior art references describe processes involving hydrogenolysis or cleaving with molecular hydrogen in the presence of a hydrogenation catalyst Japanese Patent Publication No. 25,246 74 describes selectively cleaving polyalkylene glycols, e.q., diethylene glycol, and polyalkylene glycol monoalkyl ethers at a carbon to carbon covalent bond by heating with molecular hydrogen in the presence of a nickel or palladium catalyst to give alkylene glycol monoalkyl ethers, polyalkylene glycol monoalkyl ethers, alkylene glycol dialkyl ethers and polyalkylene glycol dialkyl ethers.Lower polyalkylene glycols, monoethylene glycol, dimethyl ether and methane are described as being coproduced by this cleaving process. However, this patent does not disclose or teach the coproduction of ethanol resulting from the hydrogenolysis of a polyalkylene glycol. German Patent 2,900,279 describes selectively cleaving polyalkylene glycols, e.g., diethylene glycol, or monoethylene glycol monoatkyl or monoaryl ethers including their hemologs at a carbon to carbon covalent bond with molecular hydrogen in the presence of a catalyst consisting of a support material, onto which at least one of the elements palladium, platinum, ruthenium, rhodium or fridium are applied in the form of a compound to give dimethyl ethers, methylalkyl ethers or methylaryl ethers. When a polyalkylene glycol is used as the starting reactant, its terminal hydroxymethyl groups are cleaved to produce the dimethyl ether of a glycol. Monoethylene glycol and ethanol are not produced from the hydrogenolysis of a polyalkylene glycol according to the teachings of this patent. French Patent 2,447,363 describes selectively cleaving polyalkylene glycol monoalkyl ethers at a carbon to oxygen covalent bond with molecular hydrogen in the presence of a nickel and barium catalyst to give alkylene glycol monoalkyl ethers and polyalkylene glycol monoalkyl ethers having one less ethylene group, e.g., diethylene glycol monoethyl ether Is cleaved to give monoethylene glycol monoethyl ether. When hydrogenolysis of polyalkylene glycol monoalkyl ethers is not complete, small quantities of ethanol may be detected in the reaction mixture. This patent does not describe the hydrogenolysis of a polyalkylene glycol to produce both monoethylene glycol and ethanol. U.S Patent 3,833,634 describes a process for the preparation of polyfunctional oxygen containing compounds such as ethylene glycol gnd or derivatives thereof by reacting an oxide of carbon with hydrogen using a rhodium complex catalyst in combination with carbon monoxide at elevated temperature and pressure. Example 23 describes the production of ethylene glycol by hydrogenolysis of open chain glycol ethers, e.g., tetraethytene glycol dimethyl ether. Japanese Public Disclosure No. 109,908 79 describes selectively cleaving an alkylene oxide, e.g., ethylene oxide, with molecular hydrogen in the presence of a hydrogenation catalyst and solvent having low polarity. The reaction is carried out in the liquid phase to give alkylene glycol alkyl ethers. Ethanol is produced as a by product. U.S. Patent 1,953,548 describes a process for producing n propyl alcohol by passing propylene oxide vapor over a contact catalyst containing alumina at elevated temperature and immediately thereafter, in the presence of hydrogen, over a hydrogenation catalyst containing reduced nickel. U.S. Patent 3,975,449 describes a hydrogenolysis process for producing a primary diol and or triol from an epoxide by contacting the epoxide with molecular hydrogen and a solid catalyst comprising nickel or cobalt at elevated temperature and pressure. Davidova and Kraus, Journal of Catalysis, 61, 1 6 l980 describe cleaving of 1,2 epoxybutane with molecular hydrogen in the presence of a supported platinum catalyst at elevated temperature and atmospheric pressure to give oxygenated products, e.g., 2 butanone, l butanol and 2 butanol. German Patent 2,434,057 describes a hydrogenolysis method for producing glycol dimethyl ethers by cleaving the formals of the corresponding glycol monomethyl ethers with molecular hydrogen in the presence of catalysts composed of oxide mixtures of silicon. and aluminum and or rare earths and additionally containing the metals nickel, cobalt or copper. German Patent 2,716,690 describes a hydrogenolysis method for producing glycol dimethyl ethers bly c leaving the formals of the corresponding glycol monomethyl ethers with molecular hydrogen in the presence of catalysts composed of oxide mixtures of silicon and aluminum and or rare earths as well as metallic nickel and or cobalt and or copper, characterized by the fact that the catalysts additionally contain metallic palladium and or rhodium and or platinum as the promoter. However, none of these references and no prior art is currently known to us which discloses or teaches a process for cleaving a polyalkylene glycol at a carbon to oxygen covalent bond by heating with molecular hydrogen in the presence of a hydrogenation catalyst to produce at least one of monoethylene glycol and ethanol.Disclosure of Invention The present invention provides a process for cleaving a polyalkylene glycol, e.g., diethylene glycol, containing at least one ether group therein at a carbon to oxygen covalent bond by heating the polyalkylene glycol with molecular hydrogen in the presence of a hydrogenation catalyst, e.g., copper chromite, to produce at least one of monethylene glycol and ethanol. In copending U.S. Patent Application SerialNo. D l3,340 filed on an even date herewith1 there is described the manufacture of monoethylene glycol monomethyl ether, monoethylene glycol and ethanol by the hydrogenolysis of a polyalkylene glycol, e.g., diethylene glycol. The polyalkylene glycol is selectivity cleaved at a carbon to oxygen covalent bond and independently at a carbon to carbon covalent bond by heating with molecular hydrogen in the presence of a hydrogenation catalyst comprising nickel to produce at least one of monoethylene glycol monomethyl ether, monoethylene glycol and ethanol. Monoethylene glycol monomethyl ether can be produced in predominant amounts by employing the process disclosed in this copending application, i.e., the selectivity of monoethylene glycol monomethyl ether may approach about 95 molar percent. It has been surprisingly found that when the hydrogenation catalyst of the present invention is copper chromite, monoethylene glycol and ethanol are produced in selectivites which may approach or exceed 95 molar percent. Accordingly, it is readily apparent that either monoethylene glycol et hanol or monoethylene glycol monomethyl ether may be selectively produced by similar hydrogenolysis processes utilizing either a hydrogenation catalyst such as copper chromite or a catalyst containing nickel respectively. The selectivities of both monoethylene glycol ethanol and monoethylene glycol monomethyl ether may approach 95 molar percent in each of these inventions. Copending U.S. Patent Application SerialNo. D 13,341 , filed on an seven date herewith, describes a process for selectively cleaving a polyalkylene glycol, e.g., diethylene glycol, at a carbon to oxygen covalent bond and independently at a carbon to carbon covalent bond by heating with molecular hydrogen in the presence of a hydrogenation catalyst comprising ruthenium to produce at least one of monoethylene glycol monomethyl ether, monoethylene glycol and ethanol.The production rate of each of said monoethylene glycol monomethyl ether, monoethylene glycol and ethanol is at least about 10 moles kilogram r utheni um hour. Copending U.S. Patent Application SerialNo. D 13,342 , filed on an even date herewith, describes a process for selectively cleaving a polyalkylene glycol, e.g. diethylene glycol, at a carbon to oxygen covalent bond and independently at a carbon to carbon covalent bond by heating with molecular hydrogen in the presence of a hydrogenation catalyst comprising iridium to produce at least one of monoethylene glycol monoethyl ether, monoethylene glycol monomethyl ether, monoethylene glycol and ethanol. Monoethylene glycol monoethyl ether can be produced in significant amounts by employing the process disclosed in this copending application. Detailed Description Hydrogenolysis of polyalkylene glycols may proceed according to different cleavage pathways.For example, polyalkylene glycols may be cleaved at either a carbon to oxygen covalent bond or a carbonto carbon covalent bond to give different products.The cleavage pathways are influenced or varied, to a certain extent, by choice of hydrogenation catalyst, concentration of active metal in the hydrogenation catalyst, pressure provided by molecular hydrogen and other factors. When a hydrogenation catalyst comprising copper chromite is used in the hydrogenolysis of a polyalkylene glycol, e.g., diethylene glycol, according to a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the cleavage pathway may be predominantly directed toward a carbon to oxygen covalent bond resulting in the production of monoethylene glycol and ethanol in predominant amounts. A lesser proportion of cleavage may be directed toward a carbon to carbon covalent bond resulting in the production of monoethylene glycol monomethyl ether In lesser amounts.As a preferred embodiment of the present invention, therefore, a hydrogenation catalyst containing copper chromite may be employed to obtain desirable amounts of monoethylene glycol and ethanol, i.e., monoethylene glycol and ethanol may be produced in selectivities which may approach or exceed 95 molar percent. The preferred hydrogenation catalysts which can be used to catalyze the hydrogenolysis process of this invention are well known in the art and include compositions containing copper, chromium, molybdenum, tungsten, iron, cobalt, nickel, ruthenium, rhodiums palladium, platinum, iridium, rhenium, tantalum, vanadium, niobium, zinc or combinations thereof. The preferred hydrogenation catalysts may also include, as an additional ingredient, a promoter or promoters for increasing the activity of the hydrogenation catalysts.Suitable catalyst promoters include barium, calcium, magnesium, strontium, zirconium, titanium, hafnium, potassium, lithium, sodium, rubidium, cesium, manganese, molybdenum, chromium, tungsten, zinc and the like. Certain metals such as molybdenum, chromium, tungsten and zinc may. act as either a co catalyst or promoter. Reference to the hydrogenation catalysts and promoters as containing the above described metals is meant to include the metal in the compound form as well as the elemental form, for example, as a metal oxide or sulfide or as a metal hydride, or as the reduced elemental metal or as mixtures of the foregoing. The hydrogenation catalysts may be employed in the presence or absence of a catalyst support.Suitable catalyst supports include silica gel, aluminum oxide, magnesium oxide, titanium dioxide, magnesium aluminate, zirconium dioxide, silicon carbide, ceramic, pumice, carbon, diatomaceous earth, kieselguhr and the like.Illustrative of the preferred hydrogenation catalysts useful in the process of this invention include compositions containing cuprous oxide and dlchromium trioxide copper chromite cuprous oxide, dichromium trioxide and barium oxide cuprous oxide on silica gel cuprous molybdate and potassium monoxide cuprous oxide and zinc oxide cuprous oxide, zinc oxide and dichromium trioxide zinc oxide and dichromium trioxide cuprous oxide and dichromium trioxide on silica gel coba tous and or cobaltic oxide cobaltous and or cobaltic oxide on kieselguhr cobaltous and or cobalt oxide and zirconium dioxide on kieselguhr cobalt molybdate on silica gel or aluminum oxide ferric oxide on aluminum oxide ferric oxide on silica gel iridium on silics gel molybdenum trioxide on aluminum oxide molybdenum dioxide on aluminum oxide nickel nickel on silica gel nickel on kieselguhr palladium on carbon palladium on aluminum oxide palladium o silica gel palladium and calcium oxide on silica gel palladium and molybdenum oxide on silica gel platinum on carbon platinum on silica gel platinum and calcium oxide on silica gel rhenium on silica gel rhodium on aluminum oxide rhodium on silica gel rhodium and iron on magnesium oxide rhodium and calcium oxide on silica gel ruthenium on magnesium oxide tantalum oxide on aluminum oxide tungsten trioxide on aluminum oxide and cuprous oxide, dichromium trioxide and manganese oxide The compositions containing oxides may be totally or partially reduced in situ during reactor heat up.It is noted that hydrogenation catalysts containing iridium, ruthenium or nickel are also utilized in separate hydrogenolysis processes which are the subject matter of the copending U.S. patent applications discussed hereinabove. The most preferred hydrogenation catalysts of this invention include compositions containing copper, and chromium with or without barium, e,g ,, cuprous oxide, dichromium trioxide with or without barium oxide.Many of the above described hydrogenation catalysts are commercially available and others are prepared by known methods detailed hereinbelow. The hydrogenation catalysts useful in the process of this invention can be employed in any form. They may be present in the reaction mixture as finely divided powders, porous tablets, pellets, spheres, granules and the like. It is desirable that the hydrogenation catalysts possess a high surface area to provide preferred reaction rates.The preferred surface area ranges from about 0.5 mZ gm to about 300 m2 gm and even greater. Most preferably, the surface area of the hydrogenation catalysts ranges from about 10 m2 gm to about 300 m2 gm. The average pore diameter of the hydrogenation catalysts Is not narrowly critical.Hydrogen diffusion appears to be rate limiting in catalysts having very small pores. It also appears that a very small average pore diameter and or a large catalyst particle diameter are detrimental to high monoethylene glycol ethanol selectivities and or polyalkylene glycol conversion rates. In general, for obtaining desirable monoethylene alvcol ethanol selectivities. catalYstj,having an 15 nm average pore diameter of at least about lSO t nm preferably at least about 50 A , and a particle diameter of less than 10 millimeters, preferably 5 millimeters or less, are used in the hydrogenolysis process of this invention. The quantity of the hydrogenation catalyst which is employed is not narrowly critical and can vary over a wide range. In general, the process of this invention is desirably conducted either continuously or batchwise in the presence of a catalytically effective quantity of the hydrogenation catalyst which gives a suitable and reasonable reaction rate, e.g., from about 1 to about 100 molesikilogram catalyst hour. The reaction proceeds when one employs as little as about0.Ol weight percent, or even a lesser amount of catalyst based on the total quantity of the reaction mixture under batch conditions. The upper concentration of the hydrogenation catalyst can be quite high, e.g., about 50 weight percent of catalyst based on the total quantity of reaction mixture. Higher concentrations may be used if desired.However, the upper concentration appears to be dictated by economics in terms of the cost of certain hydrogenation catalysts to achieve the given reaction and by ease of handling of the reaction mixture during the course of the reaction.Depending on various factors, such as the total operative pressure of the system, the operative temperature and other considerations, a concentration of between about 0.1 and about 30 weight percent hydrogenation catalyst based on the total quantity of the reaction mixture is generally suitable in the practice of this invention. The preferred polyalkylene glycols which can be used in the practice of the process of this invention are well known in the art and include diethylene glycol, triethylene glycol, tetraethylene glycol and the like. In the most preferred embodiment of this invention, ethylene glycol formed as a by product of the commercial oide glycol process described hereinabove, is cleaved at a carbon to oxygen covalent bond by heating with molecular hydrogen in the presence of a hydrogenation catalyst to produce at least one of monoethylene glycol and ethanol.By utilizing the preferred catalysts and reaction conditions of the present invention, higher polyalkylene glycols such as triethylerie glycol and tetraethylene glycol may be selectively cleaved to give at least one of monoethylene glycol and ethanol. These polyalkylene glycols are prepared by methods well known in the art. The relative amounts of polyalkylene glycol and molecular hydrogen which are initially present in the reaction mixture can be varied over a wide range. In general, the molar ratio of molecular hydrogen to polyalkylene glycol Is in the range of between about 1 20 and about 2,000 1, preferably between about 1 2 and about 500 1 and most preferably, between 1 1 and about 200 1. It is to be understood, however, that molar ratios outside the stated broad range may be employed. However, very high molecular hydrogen to polyalkylene glycol molar ratios are economically unattractive, and very low molecular hydrogen to polyalkylene glycol molar ratios will result generally In low conversions and low product selectivities.When operating in the continuous mode, molecular hydrogen and polyalkylene glycol may be fed either concurrently or countercurrently over the hydrogenation catalyst using either upward, downward or horizontal flow, preferably concurrently downward flow. The gas hourly space velocity GHSV of molecular hydrogen and the liquid hourly space velocity LHSV of polyalkylene glycol may be varied over a wide range utilizing the continuous process.The gas hourly space velocity of molecular hydrogen may range from about 100 hr l or less to greater than 100,000 hr l, preferably from about 1,000 hr 1 to about 100,000 hr l, and most preferably from about 2,000 hr l to about 75,000 hr l The liquid hourly space velocity of polyalkylene glycol may range from about .01 hr l or less to about 100 hr 1 or greater, preferably from about 0.1 hr 1 to about 25 hr l, and most preferably from about0.25 hr 1 to about 10 hr l The higher GHSV and LHSV values generally tend to result in uneconomically low conversion of polyalkylene glycol, and the lowerGHSV and LHSV values generally tend to decrease the selectivity of monoethylene glycol and ethanol. The intended purpose is to provide a sufficient quantity of polyalkylene glycol and molecular hydrogen in the reaction mixture to effect the desired production of monoethyleue glycol and ethanol. The process of this invention can be effected over a wide temperature range. In general, the process is conducted at a temperature of between about 1500C and about 3500C Lower temperatures generally give improved product selectivity, but often at economically unfavorable rates. Higher temperatures generally increase total productivity but tend to increase by product formation.Operating the process at temperatures lower than 1500C will not produce the desired products at optimum rate so that the reaction will typically be operated over an extended period of time and or excessive quantities of catalyst must be employed in order to obtain the desired production of reaction products at reasonable rates. When operating the process at temperatures higher than 350 C there is a tendency for the organic materials contained in the reaction mixture to decompose. In most cases when operating at the lower end of the temperature range, it is desirable to utilize pressures in the higher end of the pressure range.The preferred temperature range is between about 2000C and 3000C while the most preferred temperature range is between about 2250C and 265 CC. However, there are occasions when a preferred temperature range may include any of the more desirable ranges as well as the broadest range such that the process may be operated at a temperature of between 175CC and 300 C as well as between about 15O0C and 3250C. The process of the present invention is effected under atmospheric or superatmospheric pressure conditions. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the pressure is produced almost exclusively by the molecular hydrogen provided to the reaction. However, suitable inert gaseous diluents may also be employed if desired.Actual operating pressures initial pressures under batch operating conditions of between about 690 bar atmospheric and about lO,OOO psig represent an operative limit for producing the monoethylene glycol and ethanol products. The preferred actual operating pressure conditions for production of monoethylene glycol and ethanol ranges form about 34.5 bar 275 bar 500psig to about 4000 pslg and. most preferably, 69 bar 207 bar from about 1000 psig to about 3000 psig. When operating the process at lower pressures, the rate of reaction becomes slower and therefore the reaction period must be extended until the desired amount of reaction products are produced.When operating the process at higher pressures, the rate of production of the desired products will be increased. Higher pressures generally increase the selectivity of monoethylene glycol and ethanol but very high pressures increase the secondary hydrogenolysis of monoethylene glycol and ethanol.Lower pressures increase the selectivity of ethylene glycol monoalkyl ethers, increase the formation of by products such as 2 oxodioxane and decrease the selectivity of monoethylene glycol and ethanol. The process of this invention is effected for a period of time sufficient to produce the desired monoethylene glycol and ethanol products.In general, the reaction time can vary from a fraction of a second to several hours i.e., from a 0.1 second and shorter to approximateiy 10 hours, and longer. If more sluggish reaction conditions are selected, then the reaction time will have to be extended until the desired products are produced.It is readily appreciated that the required residence period, i.e., reaction time, will be influenced by reaction temperature, concentration and choice of hydrogenation catalyst, total pressure, concentration molar ratio of polyalkylene glycol and molecular hydrogen and other factors.When operating the hydrogenolysis process of this invention under continuous conditions, the reaction time or residence period may generally range from a fraction of a second to several minutes or longer whereas the residence period under batch conditions may generally range from a few minutes to several hours. The synthesis of the desired products from the hydrogenolysis of a polyalkylene glycol is suitably conducted under operative conditions which give reasonable reaction rates and or conversions. The process of this invention can be carried out in a batch, semi continuous or continuous manner in either a liquid phase, vapor phase or a combination liquid vapor phase. The reaction may be conducted in fixed bed, slurry phase, trickle bed or fluidized bed reactors or the like using a single reaction zone or in a plurality of reaction zones, in series or in parallel. The reaction may be conducted intermittently or continuously in an elongated tubular zone or a series of such zones. The material of construction of the equipment should be such so as to be inert during the reaction. The equipment should also be able to withstand the reaction temperatures and pressures. The reaction zone can be fitted with internal and or external heat exchangers to control undue temperature fluctuations caused by the moderate exothermic nature of the reaction.In a preferred embodiment of the present invention, agitation means to ensure complete mixing of the reaction mixture should be used In reaction systems not employing a fixed bed catalyst. Mixing induced by magnetic stirrer, vibration, shaker, rotating, sparging with gas, oscillation, etc. are all illustrative of the types of agitation means which are contemplated herein. Such agitation means are available and well known to the art. The polyakylene glycol, molecular hydrogen and hydrogenation catalyst ingredients may be initially introduced into the reaction zone batchwise. Alternatively, the polyalkylene glycol, molecular hydrogen and hydrogenation catalyst ingredients may be introduced into the reaction zone continuously or intermittently during the course of the synthesis reaction. Means to introduce the ingredients into the reaction zone during the course of the reaction and or means to adjust the ingredients in the reaction zone during the reaction, either intermittently or continuously, can be conveniently utilized in the process to maintain the desired molar ratios of ingredients and to maintain the pressure exerted by hydrogen. The operative conditions of the present process may be adjusted to optimize the selectivities and conversibn rates of the desired products and or the economics of the process. For example, it may generally be preferred to operate at relatively low conversions which tends to increase selectivities of monoethylene glycol and ethanol due to reduced by product formation. Lower conversions also tend to increase the monoethylene glycol ethanol molar ratio by reducing secondary hydrogenolysis of monethylene glycol. Recovery of the desired monethylene glycol and ethanol can be achieved by methods well known in the art, such as by distillation, fractionation, extraction, and the like. Typically, in carrying out the process, the product contained in the reaction mixture would be withdrawn from the reaction zone and distilled to recover the desired products.For reactors not employing a fixed bed catalyst, a fraction comprising the hydrogenation catalyst and by products can be removed for recovery or regeneration of the catalyst. Fresh hydrogenation catalyst can be intermittently added to the reaction stream or it can be added directly to the reaction zone, to replenish any catalyst which is lost in the process. Although this invention has been described with respect to a number of details, it is not intended that this invention should be limited thereby. The examples which follow are intended solely to illustrate the embodiments of this invention which to date have been determined and are not intended in any way to limit the scope and the intent of this invention. As used in the Examples appearing hereinafter, the following designations, terms and abbreviations have the indicated meanings psig pounds per square inch gauge pressure.rpm revolutions per minute. kilogram pounds 0,45 kg cu. cubic ft. foot 0,3 m cat. catalyst hr. hour cc cubic centimeter mm millimeter mê square meter gm gram cmê square centimeter cony. conversionDEG diethylene glycolGHSV gas hourly space velocity liquid hourly space velocity reciprocal hour unit for GHSV and LHSV or percent percent by weight unless otherwise specified.ratios are on a weight basis unless otherwise specified.temperatures are given in OC unless otherwise specified.ND not detected selectivity calculated according to the formula, ri x 100 X Selectivity i t rDEG conv.where i is the individual component, i.e., monethylene glycol, ethanol or by products, and r is the rate in moles kg cat hr. The catalysts used in the Examples are identified as follows Catalyst I. A composition containing 40 percent by weight cuprous oxide, 42 percent by weight dichromtum trioxide and 5 percent by weight barium oxide having a surface area of 80 130 m2 m. a bulk 352 400 kg mê density of 22 25 Tbs. cu. ft. and a particle size of 44 m less than 325 mesh and sold by Calsicat as CalsicatE lOlP. Catalyst II. A composition containing 45 percent by weight cuprous oxide, 45 percent by weight dichromium trioxide and 6 percent by weight barium oxide having a surface area of 30 60 400 448 kg mê m qm, a bulk density of 2528 1bs. cu. ft. and a 44 urn particle size of less than 325 mesh and sold byCalsicat as Calsicat E 102P. Catalyst III. A composition containing 47 percent by weight cuprous oxide and 47 percent by weiaht dichromium trioxide having a surface area of 1440 1520 kg mê 90 100 mê gm, a bulk density of 90 95 1bs. cu. ftg. 9 kg 3.2 x a crush strength of 20 1bs a particle size of 178 3.2 mm inch by 1 m inch and a pore volume ofu.20 cc gm and sold by Calsicat as Calsicat E 103TR. Catalyst IV. A composition containing 43 percent by weight cuprous oxide, 43 percent by weight dichromium trioxide and 8 percent by weight barium oxide having a surface area of 85 mê gm. a 1440 1520 kg mê bulk Density of 90 95 lbs, cu.ft. a crush strength 3.2 kg 3.2 x 3.2 m of 12 lbs., a particle size of T 8 inch by 1 8 inch and a pore volume of 0.20 cc gm and sold by Calsicat as Calsicat E 106TR. Catalyst V. A composition containing 78 percent by weight cuprous oxide and 20 percent by weiqht dichromium trioxide having a surface area of 2192 kg mê 6 m gm, a bulk densitv of 137 lbs. cu. ft., a nsity of 137 lbs. cu. ft., a particle size of 178 inch by 178 inch and a pore volume of 0.10 cc gm and sold by Harshaw as HarshawCu 0203T Catalyst VI A composition containing 35 percent by weight cuprous oxide, 38 percent by weight dichromium trioxide and 10 percent by weight barium oxide having a surface area of 14 15 864 kg mê m gm, a bulk density of 54 lbs cu. ft., a crush 3,6 5,4 kg 3,2 x strength of 8 12 lbs., a particle slze of 1 8 inch 3,2 mm by 1 8 inch and a pore volume of 0,4 cc gm and sold by Harshaw as Harshaw Cu 0402T. Catalyst VII. A composition containing 33 percent by weight cuprous oxide, 38 percent by weight dichromium trioxide and 9 percent by weight barium oxide having a surface area of 35 m2 gm, a 1080 kg m bulk density of 105 lbs. cu. ft. a crush strength 8,1 kg 3,2 x 3,2 mm of 18 1bs. a particle size of T 8 inch by 1 8 inch and a pore volume ofO.lO cc gm and sold by Harshaw as Harshaw Cu 1107T. Catalyst VIII. A composition containing 39 percent by weight cuprous oxide, 43.5 percent by weight dichromium trioxide and 10 percent by weight barium oxide having a surface area of 50 m2 gm, a 480 kg m bulk density of 30 lbs. cu.ft., the particle size is powder and a pore volume of 0.76 cc gm and sold byHarshaw as Harshaw Cu 1106P. Catalyst IX. A composition containing 41 percent by weight cuprous oxide, 45 percent by weight dichromium trioxide and 10 percent by weight barium oxide haying a surface area of 50 m 2 gm, a 480 kg m bulk density of 30 lbs. cu. ft. and the particle size is powder and sold by Harshaw as Harshaw Cu 1114P. Catalyst X. A composition containing 34 percent by weight cuprous oxide, 37 percent by weight dichromium trioxide and 8 percent by weight barium oxide having a surface area of 24 m2 om a 1000 kg m bulk density of 118 lbs. cu. ft. a crush strength of 10,35 kg 3,2 x 3,2 mm lbs., a particle size of 1 8 inch by 1,8 inch and a pore volume of0,10 cc gm and sold by Harshaw asHarshaw Cu 1117T. Catalyst XI. A composition containing 38 percent by weight cuprous oxide, 38 percent by weight dichromium trioxide and 9 percent by weight barium oxide having a surface area of 30 m2 qm, a 1760 kg m bulk density of 110 lbs. cu. ft. a crush strength of 7,2 kg 3,2 x 3,2 mm 16 lbs. a particle size of 1 8 inch by 1 8 inch and a pore volume of 0,16 cc gm and sold by Harshaw asHarshaw Cu 1132T. Catalyst XII. A composition containing 42 percent by weight cuprous oxide and 38 percent by weight dichromium trioxide having a surface area of 30 m2 gm, a bulk density of 93 lbs. cu.ft., a 0,75 kg crush strength of 15 lbs.. a particle size of 1 8 x 3,2 mm inch by 1 8 inch and a pore volume of0,21 cc gm and sold by Harshaw as Harshaw Cu 1808T. Catalyst XII I. A composition containing 50 percent by weight cuprous oxide and 37 percent by weight dichromium trioxide, having a particle site 4,8 mm of 3 16 inch and sold by Girdler as Girdler G 13. Catalyst XIV. A composition containing 45 percent by weight cuprous oxide, 45 percent by weight dichromium trioxide and 4 percent by weight manganese oxide having a bulk density of 81 1296 kg m3 lbs. cu.ft., a crush strength of 180 kg cm2 and a particle size of 5 mm and sold by Nikkl as Nikki N 201. Catalyst XV. A composition containing 43 percent by weight cuprous oxide and 39 percent by weiaht dichromium trioxide having a surface are of 1488 kg m 49 m2 gm, a bulk density of 93 lbs. cu. ft., a 9 crush strength of 14 lbs., a particle size of 1 8 x 3,2 mm inch and by 1 8 inch and a pore volume of0,21 cc gm and sold by Harshaw as Harshaw Cu 1809T. Catalyst XVI. A composition containing 40 percent by weight cuprous oxide and 60 percent by weight dichromium trioxide having a, surf ace area of 1188 kg m 30 m2 gm, a bulk density of 73 lbs. cu. ft., the particle size is powder and a pore volume of0.69 cc gm and sold by Harshaw as Harshaw Cu 1402P. Catalyst XVII. A composition containing 51 percent by weight cuprous oxide and 46 percent by weight dichromium trioxide having a surface area of 656 kg m 30 m2 gm, a bulk density of 41 lbs. cu. ft., the particle size was powder and a pore volume of Q76 cc gm and sold by Harshaw as Harshaw Cu 1800P. Catalyst XVIII. A composition containing 39 percent by weight cuprous oxide and 50 percent by weight dichromium trioxide having a surface area of 1000 kg m 15 m2 am. a bulk densltv of 100 lbs. cu. ft., a 4 kg 3,2 crush strength of 9 lbs. a particle size of 1 8 x 3,2 mm inch by 1 8 inch and a pore volume of .18 cc gm and sold by Harshaw as Harshaw Cu 1422T. Catalyst XIX. A composition containing 7.5 percent by weight cuprous oxide on silica having a surface area of 4 m2 gm, a bulk density of 30 480 , Alil lbs. cu.ft., a particle size of 4 10 mesh and a pore volume of .61 cc gm and sold by Harshaw as Harshaw Cu Z5OT. Catalyst XX. A composition containing 33 percent by weight cuprous oxide and 65 percent by weight zinc oxide having a particle size of 3 16 4,8 mm inch and sold by Girdler as Girdler G 66B. Catalyst XXI. A composition containing cuprous oxide, zinc oxide and dichromium trioxide C. IrIm having a particle size of 1 8 inch by 1 4 inch and sold by Catalysts Chemicals, Inc. as Catalysts BR Chemicals, Inc. C 79 2. Catalyst XXII. A composition containing zinc oxide and dichromium trioxide having a bulk 1560 kg m density of 85 lbs. cu.ft. and a particle size of 1 8 x 6,35 mm inch by 1 4 inch and sold by Catalysts Chemicals,Inc. as Catalysts Chemicals, Inc. C 70 Z. Catalyst XXIII. A composition containing 15 percent by weight cuprous oxide and 31 percent by weight zinc oxide having a particle size of 178 x 6,35 mm inch by 1 4 inch and sold by Catalysts Chemicals,Inc. as Catalysts Chemicals, Inc. C 18 1. Catalyst XXIV. A composition containing 11 percent by weight cuprous oxide and 0,55 percent by weight dichromium trioxide on silica qel having a 3,2 mm particle size of 1 8 inch and sold by Girdler asGirdler G 1576. Catalyst XXV. A composition containing 22 percent by weight cobaltous cobaltic oxide on silica havinq a surface area of 110 m2 qm. a 6,35 mm particle size at 1 4 inch and a pore volume of 0,21 cc gm and sold by Girdler as Girdler T 1640. Catalyst XXVI. A composition containing 35 percent by weight cobaltous oxide on kieselguhr having a a surface area of 130 m2 gm, a bulk density 1136 kg m 7,9 kg of 71 lbs. cu. ft., a crush strength of 17,5 lbs., a particle size of 3 216 inch and a pore volume of 0,35 cc gm and sold by Harshaw as Harshaw Co lOl. Catalyst XXVII. A composition containing 52 percent by weight cobaltous oxide and 2.5 percent by weiqht zirconium dioxide on kieselguhr having a 4 nirn particle size of 3 16 inch and sold by Girdler asGirdler G 67 Catalyst XXVIII. A composition containing 3 percent by weight cobaltous oxide and 15 percent by weight molybdenum trioxide on silica alumina having a surface area of 180 m2 gm, a bulk density 960 kg m of 60 lbs cu ft. a crush strength of 24 lsb. a 3,2 mm particle size of 1 8 inch and a pore volume ofO.40 cc gm and sold by Harshaw as Harshaw CoMo 0402. Catalyst XXIX. A composition containing cobaltous oxide and molybdenum trioxide on alumina 3.2 mm having a particle size of 178 inch and sold byGirdler as Girdler G 39. Catalyst XXX. A composition containing 10 percent by weight molybdenum trioxide on aluminum oxide having a surface area of 160 m2 cm. a bulk 848 kg m 8,6 kg density of 53 lbs. cu.ft., a crush strength of 18 5 2 mm libs. a particle size of 1 8 inch and a pore volume of 0,36 cc gm and sold by Harshaw as Harshaw Mo 1201. Catalyst XXXI. A composition containing 10 percent by weiqht molybdenum trioxide on aluminum 3,2 x 35 mm oxide having a particle size of T 8 inch by 1 4 inch and sold by Houdry. Catalyst XXXI I. A composition containing 10 percent by weight molybdenum trioxide on aluminum oxide having a surface area of 64 mê cm a bulk 976 kg m 4,5 kg density of 61 lbs. cu. ft., a crush strenght of 10 3,2 mm lobs, a particle size of inch and a pore volume of 0,40 cc gm and sold by Harshaw as Harshaw Mo 0502. Catalyst XXXIII. A composition containing 5 percent by weight palladium on carbon havina a 320 kg m bulk density of 20 lbs. cu. ft. and the particle size is powder and sold by Engelhard. Catalyst XXXIY. A composition containing 5 percent by weight platinum on carbon the particle size is powder and sold by Matthey Bishop asMatthey Bishop BD 533. Catalyst XXXV A composition containing 5 percent by weight sulfided platinum on carbon the particle size is powder and sold by Engelhard as Engelhard 11 217. Catalyst XXXVI. A composition containing 0,5 percent by weight rhodium on a aluminum oxide 3.2 mm rnrn having a particle size of 1 8 inch and sold byEngelhard as Engelhard 10034. Catalyst XXXVII. A composition containing 5 percent by weight ruthenium on carbon the particle size is powder and sold by Matthey Bishop. Catalyst XXXVIII. A composition containing 10 percent by weight cobaltous oxide and 0,5 percent by weight calcium on silica gel the silica gel is commercially available from Davison SpecialtyChemical Company as Grade 59 and havinq a surface 400 kg m area of 275 m gm, a bulk density of 25 25 lbs. cu.ft., the particle size is powder after grinding and a pore volume of 1.2 cc gm. Catalyst XXXIX. A composition containg 10 percent by weight nickel on silica gel the silica gel is commercially available from Davison SpecialtyChemical Comoanv as Grade 59 and having a surface 400 kg m area of 275 m gm a bulk density of 25 lbs cu. ft., the particle size is powder after grinding and a pore volume of 1.2 cc gm. Catalyst XL. A composition containing 5 percent by weight palladium on silica gel the silica gel is commercially available from DavisonSpecialty Chemical Company as Grade 59 and having a surface area of 275 m2 gm, a bulk density of 25 400 kg m3 lbs. cu. ft., the particle size is powder after grinding and a pore volume of 1.2 cc gm. Catalyst XLI. A composition containing 5 percent by weight palladium and 0,5 percent by weight calcium on silica gel the silica gel is commercially available from Davison SpecialtyChemical Company as Grade 59 and having a surface ruiJ area of 275 m gm, a bulk density of 25 lbs. cu. ft., the particle size is powder after grinding and a pore volume of 1.2 cc gm. Catalyst XLII. A composition containing 5 percent by weight palladium and .2 percent by weight calcium on silica gel the silica gel is commercially available from Davison Specialty Chemical Company as Grade 59 and having a surface area of 275 m2 gm, a bulk density of 400 kg m 25 lbs cu. ft., the particle size is powder after grinding and a pore volume of 1.2 cc gm. Catalyst XLIII. A composition containing 5 percent by weight p alladium and .1 percent by weight calcium on silica gel the silica gel is commercially available from Davison SpecialtyChemical Company as Grade 59 and having a surface area of 275 mê gm, a bulk density of 400 kg m 25 lbs. cu.ft., the particle size is powder after grinding and a pore volume of 1.2 cç gm. Catalyst XLIV. A composition containing 5 percent by weight palladium and .02 percent by weight calcium on silica gel the silica gel is commercially available from Davison Specialty Chemical Company as Grade 59 and having ,a surface area of 275 m2 gm, a bulk density of 400 kg m3 25 lbs. cu. ft., the particle size is powder after grinding and a pore volume of 1.2 cc gm. Catalyst XLV. A composition containing 5 percent by weight palladium and 1 percent by weight calcium on silica gel the silica gel is commercially available from Davison Specialty Chemical Company asGrade 59 and haying a surface area of 275 m2 gm, 400 kg m a bulk density of 25 lbs. cu. ft., the particle size is powder after grinding and a pore volume of 1.2 cc gm. Catalyst XLVI. A composition containing 5 percent by weight palladium and 2 percent by weight molybdenum on silica gel the silica gel is commercially available f rom Davison SpecialtyChemical Company as Grade S 9 and having a surface area of 275 m2 gm, a bulk density of 400 kg m 25 lbs. cu.ft., the particle size is powder after grinding and a pore volume of 1.2 cc gm. Catalyst XLVII. A composition containing 5 percent by weight platinum and .2 percent by weight calcium on silica gel the silica gel is commercially available from Davison SpecialtyChemical Company as 6rade 59 and having a surface area of 275 m2 gm, a bulk density of 400 kg m 25 ltis cu. ft., the particle size is powder after grinding and a pore volume of 1.2 cc gm. Catalyst XLVIII. A composition containing 5 percent by weight rhenium on silica gel the silica gel is commercially available from DavisonSpecialty Chemical Company as Grade 59 and having a 3 surface area of 275 m2 gm, a bulk density of 400 kg m 25 lbs. cu. ft., the particle size is powder after grinding and a pore volume of 1.2 cc gm. Catalyst XLIX. A composition containing 10 percent by weight rhodium on silica gel the silica geT is commercially available from Davison SpecialtyChemical Company as Grade 59 and having a surface area of 275 m2 qm, a bulk density of 25 lbs. cu. 400 kg m ft., the particle size is powder after grinding and a pore volume of 1.2 cc gm. Catalyst L. A composition containing 2.5 percent by weight rhodium and 2 percent by weight calcium on silica gel the silica gel is commercially available from Davison SpecialtyChemical Company as Grade 59 and have a surface 400 kg m area of 275 m2 gm, a bulk density of 25 lbs. cu. ft., the particle size is powder after grinding and a pore volume of 1.2 cc gm. Catalyst LI. A composition containing 10 percent by weight ferric oxide on silica gel the silica gel is commercially available from DavisonSpecialty Chemical Company as Grade 59 and having a 400 kg m surface area of 275 m2 gm, a bulk density of 25 lbs. cu. ft., the particle size is powder after grinding and a pore. volume of 1.2 cc gm. Catalyst LII. A composition containing .5 percent by weight palladium on aluminum oxide the aluminum oxide alpha alumina is commercially available from Norton as LA 4102 and having a surface area of less than 1 m2 qm, a particle size 5,2 mm of 3 16 inch and the pore volume is0.35 cc gm. Catalyst LIII. A composition containing 5 percent by weight platinum on silica gel the silica gel is commercially available from Davison SpecialtyChemical Company as Grade 59 and having a surface 400 kg m area of 275 m2 gm, a bulk density of 25 lbs. cu.ft., the particle size is powder after grinding and a pore volume of 1.2 cc gm. Catalyst LIV.. A composition containing 2.5 percent by weight rhodium and 0,5 percent by weight iron on magnesium oxide and having a surface area of 125 m2 m. a bulk density of 44 lbs. cu. ft.. a 704 kg m 3,2 mm 4.8 mm particle size of 128 inch by 3 16 inch and the pore volume is0.44 cc gm. Catalyst LV. A composition containing 20 percent by weight molybdenum dioxide on aluminum oxide the aluminum oxide alpha alumina is commercially available from Norton as SA SlOS and having a surface area of less than 7 m2 gm and the 1600 kg m bulk density is 700 lbs. cu. ft. Catalyst LVI. A composition containing 20 percent by weight tantalum oxide on aluminum oxide the aluminum oxide alpha alumina is commercially available from Norton as SA 5105 and having a surface area of leas than I m2 gm and the bulk 1600 kg m density is 100 lbs. cu. ft. Catalyst LVII. A composition containing 20 percent by weight tungsten trioxide on aluminum oxide the aluminum oxide alpha alumina is commercially available from Norton as SA 5105 and having a surface area of Bess than 1 m2 gm and the 1600 kg m bulk density is 100 lbs. cu. ft. Catalyst LVIII, A composition containing 95 percent by weight cuprous molybdate and 5 percent by weight potassium monoxide. Commercially available catalysts, i.e.,Catalysts I through XXXVII, were used in theExamples as supplied from the manufacturer. In theExamples conducted under batch conditions, the pelleted versions were first pulverized using a mortar and pestle until each catalyst could pass through a 200 mesh screen In the Examples conducted under continuous conditions, the catalyst particles as received from the manufacturer were 0,84 2,38 mm first broken and then sieved to 8 20 mash Examples mm. 80 through 84 and 98 through 104 or 18 30 mesh Examples 85 through 97 and 105 through 110 .Catalyst reduction, where necessary, was accomplished in situ during reactorheat up. It should be noted that Girdler and Catalyst BR Chemicals, Inc. have combined and are now doing business as United Catalysts, Inc. Catalysts XXXVI II through L were prepared in the laboratory in accordance with the following general procedure The silica gel support, prewashed with hot oxalic acid solution to reduce impurities, was impregnated under vacuum with an aqueous solution of appropriate precursors denoted in Table A below.The solution volume was just sufficient to fill the catalyst pores, and the salt concentration was adjusted to give the desired weight percent in the finished catalyst. After standing 30 minutes at room temperature, the impregnated support was dried in stages, i.e., 85 C for 1 hour, 1100C for 2 hours, 1500C for 2 hours and 300QC for 2 hours. The dried material was transferred to a quartz tube, and reduced by heating to 5000C at a rate of 100 C per hour under flowing hydrogen.. The temperature was held. at 5000C for 1 hour and then the system was cooled to 800C in hydrogen. The hydrogen was displaced with nitrogen and the catalyst cooled to room temperature. TABLE AIdentification Catalyst precursorsCatalyst XXXVI II Co N03 2, Ca N03 2Catalyst XXXIX Ni OAc 2Catalyst XL PdC12, 6N HC1Catalyst XLI PdCl2, Ca No3 2, 6N HClCatalyst XLII PdCl2, Ca No3 2, 6N HClCatalyst XLIII PdCl2, Ca No3 2, 6N HClCatalyst XLIV PdCl2, Ca No3 2, 6N HClCatalyst XLV PdCl2, Ca No3 2, 6N HClCatalyst XLVI PdCl2, NH4 molybdate, 6N HClCatalyst XLVI I Chloroplatinic acid, Ca N03 2Catalyst XLVIII PdCl2, NH4ReO4Catalyst XLIX RhCl3Catalyst L RhC13, Ca N03 2 Catalysts LI through LIV were prepared in the laboratory in accordance with the following procedure The support, prewashed with hot oxalic acid in the case of silica gel, was impregnated under vacuum with a warm 700C 800C toluene solution of the appropriate metal acetonyl acetonate complex listed in Table B below. The solution volume was just sufficient to fill the catalyt pores, and theweight of dissolved metal complex was adjusted to give the indicated weight percent metal in the finished catalyst. After standing 30 minutes at room temperature the solvent was evaporated in a nitrogen purged oven by heating in stages, i.e., 850C for 1 hour, 1150C for 2 hours, 1500C for 2 hours and 200 C for 2 hours The dried impregnated support was transferred to a quartz tube and heated rapidly to 5000C in a stream of 50 50 ratio air and nitrogen.Heating at 5000C was continued for 3 hours under 100 air to complete oxidation of the complex, then the system was flushed thoroughly with nitrogen. The nitrogen was replaced by a stream of 100X hydrogen introduced at 5000C and maintained for three hours. The catalyst was cooled to SO0C under hydrogen, then cooled to room temperature under a nitrogen purge. TABLE BCatalystIdentification Catalyst PrecursorsCatalyst LI Fe Acetonyl AcetonateCatalyst LII Pd Acetonyl AcetonateCatalyst LIII Pt Acetonyl AcetonateCatalyst LIV Rh C0 2AcAc, Fe Acetonyl Acetate Catalysts LV through LVII were prepared in the laboratory in accordance with the following procedure The catalyst precursors listed in Table C below were dissolved in a minimum of hot water on a hot plate The support was added with good mixing and most of the excess water was evaporated with frequent stirring and heating. The damp support was tranferred to a nitrogen purged oven and dried in stages, i.e., 1100C for 2 hours and 1500C for 2 hours. The material was calcined in a porcelain dish by heating from 250C to 5000C over a 3 hour period. After an additional 2 hours at 5000C the catalyst was remove and cooled to room temperature.The calcined catalyst was reduced in a quartz tube by heating to 4000C at at a rate of 1000C per hour under 100 hydrogen After an additional 1 hour at 400 C the catalyst was cooTed to 800C in hydrogen.Final cooling to room temperature was carried out under nitrogen. TABLE CCatalystIdentification Catalyst PrecursorsCatalyst LV Ammonium paramolybdateCatalyst LVI Tantalum oxalateCatalyst LVII Ammonium paratungstate Catalyst LVIII was prepared in the laboratory in accordance with the following procedure A mixture of 2.88 grams 0.02 mole of MoO3, 1.591 grams 0.02 mole of CuO and 0.480 grams 0.0048 mole of KNO3 was mixed by grinding to 200 mesh. The mixture was fired in a quartz boat in air at 8000C for 32 hours using a muffle furnace. The liquified product was cooled to room temperature, and the resultant solid ground to 200 mesh using a mortar and pestle. EXAMPLES 1 THROUGH 79 Examples 1 through 79 were conducted batchwise in a 300 milliliter stainless steel autoclave reactor equipped with a magnetic stirrer in accordance with the following procedure. Prior to each of the examples the magnetic stirrer was disassembled and all components washed thoroughly to remove residual catalyst powder. All parts and internals of the reactor were similarly cleaned, rinsed with acetone and dried. The reactor was charged with a mixture of 50 grams of diethylene glycol and 1 gram of a finely pulverized catalyst specifically identified for each example in Table I below. The reactor was charged with only 25 grams of diethylene glycol in Examples 18, 40, 47, 58 and 77 and with 100 grams of diethylene glycol inExamples 4, 15, 16,, 19, 20, 21, 41, 46, 67, 72 and 73.The catalyst charge in Example 77 was only 0.5. grams. The reactor was then sealed, purged twice with 500 psig of molecular hydrogen and, after pressure testing, charged with an initial amount of molecular hydrogen. The initial molecular hydrogen pressure for each example is given in Table I. The magnetic stirrer was started and adjusted to 1000 rpm, and the reaction system was then heated to a temperature specified for each example in Table I.After a six hour reaction period the reactor was cooled, stirring was discontinued and the pressure vented slowly. The reaction period was only two hours for Example 77, only four hours for Examples 8, 10, 12 and 29 and twenty hours for Example 75. During the venting step, a sample of product gas was collected for analysis by gas chromatography. The remaining liquid contents of the reactor were then removed, weighed and analyzed by gas chromatography.The performance of catalysts tested in Examples 1 through 79 is given in Table I. TABLE I POLYALKYLENE GLYCOL HYDROGENOLYSIS BATCH PROCESS PRODUCT DATAEXAMPLE 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9Catalyst Identification I II III III III IV IV IV IVTemperature, C 250 250 250 250 250 250 280 250 250Initial Pressure H2 , psig bar 2000 138 2000 138 600 41,41 1000 69 2000 138 250 17,2 500 34,5 500 34,5 1000 69Reaction Rate moles kg hr to Ethylene Glycol 3,43 3,41 3,90 1,97 6,50 3,72 4,83 6,59 4,88Ethanol 4,15 4,34 4,75 2,51 8,48 4,69 6,27 7,66 7,01Ethane 0,186 0,110 0,326 NO 0,80 0,158 0,204 0,150 0,212Monoethylene GlycolMonomethyl Ether NO NO NO ,04 NO 0,15 1,07 ,242 ,187Monoethylene GlycolMonoethyl Ether 0,081 NO 0,032 0,05 0,076 0,016 0,080 0,069 0,082Methanol 0,321 NO 0,199 0,08 0,303 0,193 0,761 0,279 0,234Dioxane 0,096 NO 0,155 0,05 0,103 0,656 1,42 0,238 0,091 2 Oxodioxane NO NO 0,06 NO NO 1,06 0,785 0,233 0,060 1,2 Butanediol a NO NO 0,089 0,171 0,076 0,175 0,247 0,193 0,068Others b 0,06 NO 0,017 NO 0,024 0,411 0,306 0,088 0,306Selectivity mole percent Ethylene Glycol 83 87 81 77 79 56 51 80 72Ethylene Glycol amp Ethanol 91 99 89 88 91 63 59 87 88 a Small amounts of 4 butyrolactone and diethylene glycol monoethyl ether may also be included in this value. b Includes n butanol, acetaldehyde, diethyl ether, dimethyl ether, 2 methyldioxolane, 2,3 butanediol, propylene glycol, triethylene glycol and unknowns. TABLE I con t POLYALKYLENE GLYCOL HYDROGENOLYSIS BATCH PROCESS PRODUCT DATAEXAMPLE 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18Catalyst Identification IV IV IV V V VI VI VI VITemperature, C 250 250 250 250 250 250 250 250 265Initial Pressure H2 , psig bar 1000 69 2000 138 2000 138 250 17,2 1000 69 500 34,5 1000 69 2000 138 2000 138Reaction Rate moles kg hr to Ethylene Glycol 7,22 11,89 10,48 2,15 2,38 1,37 1,62 3,18 2,57Ethanol 8,60 26,05 18,70 3,35 8,21 1,23 1,81 3,18 2,79Ethane 0,186 1,19 0,326 0,030 0,029 0,031 0,051 0,065 0,52Monoethylene GlycolMonomethyl Ether 0,156 0,551 0,597 0,131 ,066 NO 0,10 NO NOMonoethylene GlycolMonoethyl Ether 0,082 0,0484 0,316 NO 0,011 NO 0,03 NO 0,04Methanol 0,267 1,82 2,84 0,083 0,078 0,060 0,106 0,15 4,35Dioxane 0,104 0,345 0,631 0,236 0,047 0,13 0,05 0,13 0,11 2 Oxodioxane 0,045 0,057 0,092 0,581 0,078 0,781 0,251 NO 0,032 1,2 Butanediol a 0,158 0,697 0,503 NO NO 0,133 0,132 0,074 0,148Others b 0,093 1,71 0,705 0,072 0,089 0,136 0,308 0,039 0,208Selectivity mole percent Ethylene Glycol 84 52 60 57 42 57 63 93 74Ethylene Glycol amp Ethanol 93 83 84 73 95 54 66 93 77 a Small amounts of 4 butyrolactone and diethylene glycol monoethyl ether may also be included in this value. b Includes n butanol, acetaldehyde, diethyl ether, dimethyl ether, 2 methyldioxolane, 2,3 butanediol, propylene glycol, triethylene glycol and unknowns. TABLE I con t POLYALKYLENE GLYCOL HYDROGENOLYSIS BATCH PROCESS PRODUCT DATAEXAMPLE 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27Catalyst Identification VI VI VI VI VII VIII VIII IX XTemperature, C 275 275 275 250 250 250 250 250 250Initial Pressure H2 , psig bar 500 34,5 1000 69 2000 138 250 17,2 1000 69 1000 69 250 17,2 2000 138 1000 69Reaction Rate moles kg hr to Ethylene Glycol 4,25 5,17 7,86 2,10 2,63 5,61 0,577 8,28 2,45Ethanol 2,29 4,38 7,86 0,99 2,65 6,53 0,777 9,24 3,37Ethane 0,07 0,071 0,124 0,021 0,092 0,097 0,003 0,200 0,047Monoethylene GlycolMonomethyl Ether 0,05 0,04 0,06 0,007 0,018 0,039 NO 0,078 0,125Monoethylene GlycolMonoethyl Ether 0,02 0,02 0,04 NO 0,020 0,057 NO 0,053 0,027Methanol 0,75 0,554 0,597 0,165 0,639 0,143 0,016 0,214 0,249Dioxane 1,02 0,40 0,15 0,50 0,078 0,067 0,080 NO 0,165 2 Oxodioxane 1,54 0,52 0,083 0,767 0,019 0,023 0,318 NO NO 1,2 Butanediol a 1,19 0,88 0,72 0,106 0,021 0,020 NO 0,086 0,033Others b 1,13 0,977 0,996 0,370 0,082 NO 0,064 0,021 0,183Selectivity mole percent Ethylene Glycol 52 68 79 63 90 89 51 91 71Ethylene Glycol amp Ethanol 40 63 79 47 90 97 59 96 85 a Small amounts of 4 butyrolactone and diethylene glycol monoethyl ether may also be included in this value. b Includes n butanol, acetaldehyde, diethyl ether, dimethyl ether, 2 methyldioxolane, 2,3 butanediol, propylene glycol, triethylene glycol and unknowns. TABLE I con t POLYALKYLENE GLYCOL HYDROGENOLYSIS BATCH PROCESS PRODUCT DATAEXAMPLE 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36Catalyst Identification XI XII XIII XIII XIV XIV XV XVI XVIITemperature, C 250 250 250 250 250 250 250 250 250Initial Pressure H2 , psig bar 1000 69 2000 138 1000 69 250 17,2 250 17,2 1000 69 1000 69 1000 69 250 17,2Reaction Rate moles kg hr to Ethylene Glycol 1,81 2,70 3,13 1,82 1,91 3,77 1,43 2,82 2,37Ethanol 2,52 2,13 4,29 2,52 2,12 4,46 1,61 3,25 3,14Ethane 0,60 0,239 0,157 0,068 0,061 0,091 0,593 0,886 0,056Monoethylene GlycolMonomethyl Ether 0,453 0,108 0,142 0,059 0,026 0,041 NO 0,049 0,019Monoethylene GlycolMonoethyl Ether 0,156 0,187 0,062 NO NO 0,034 NO NO 0,003Methanol 0,40 0,161 0,190 0,154 0,067 0,110 0,440 0,085 0,051Dioxane NO 0,139 0,076 0,499 0,536 0,310 NO NO 0,168 2 Oxodioxane 0,035 NO 0,083 1,14 1,44 0,081 NO NO 0,443 1,2 Butanediol a NO 0,073 NO NO NO NO NO NO NOOthers b 0,166 0,249 NO 0,259 0,229 NO 0,099 NO 0,270Selectivity mole percent Ethylene Glycol 55 84 75 43 45 81 75 80 64Ethylene Glycol amp Ethanol 66 75 89 52 47 89 79 86 75 a Small amounts of 4 butyrolactone and diethylene glycol monoethyl ether may also be included in this value. b Includes n butanol, acetaldehyde, diethyl ether, dimethyl ether, 2 methyldioxolane, 2,3 butanediol, propylene glycol, triethylene glycol and unknowns. TABLE I con t POLYALKYLENE GLYCOL HYDROGENOLYSIS BATCH PROCESS PRODUCT DATAEXAMPLE 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45Catalyst Identification XVIII XVIII XXI XIX LVIII XX XXII XXIII XXIVTemperature, C 250 250 250 250 250 250 250 250 250Initial Pressure H2 , psig bar 1000 69 250 17,2 2000 138 1000 69 1000 69 2000 138 2000 138 2000 138 1000 69Reaction Rate moles kg hr to Ethylene Glycol 1,63 2,32 1,34 0,23 2,81 1,47 0,31 1,82 0,567Ethanol 1,47 1,41 1,25 0,23 1,87 1,50 0,27 1,71 0,77Ethane 0,079 0,027 0,019 0,133 1,72 0,019 0,006 0,024 0,013Monoethylene GlycolMonomethyl Ether 0,07 0,009 0,04 NO NO 0,06 NO NO NOMonoethylene GlycolMonoethyl Ether NO NO 0,06 0,17 0,854 0,061 0,023 0,020 NOMethanol 0,145 0,163 0,22 NO 0,27 0,22 0,28 0,14 0,066Dioxane NO 0,727 0,003 0,06 0,14 NO NO 0,066 0,095 2 Oxodioxane 0,034 1,27 NO NO NO NO NO 0,032 0,077 1,2 Butanediol a NO 0,205 NO NO NO NO 0,048 079 NOOthers b 0,065 0,405 0,017 NO 0,043 NO 0,509 0,071 NOSelectivity mole percent Ethylene Glycol 93 52 94 44 66 92 36 89 67Ethylene Glycol amp Ethanol 88 41 91 44 55 93 33 86 79 a Small amounts of 4 butyrolactone and diethylene glycol monoethyl ether may also be included in this value. b Includes n butanol, acetaldehyde, diethyl ether, dimethyl ether, 2 methyldioxolane, 2,3 butanediol, propylene glycol, triethylene glycol and unknowns. TABLE I con t POLYALKYLENE GLYCOL HYDROGENOLYSIS BATCH PROCESS PRODUCT DATAEXAMPLE 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54Catalyst Identification XXV XXVI XXXVIII XXVII XXVIII XXIX LI XXX XXXITemperature, C 250 250 250 250 250 250 250 250 250Initial Pressure H2 , psig bar 1000 69 2000 138 2000 138 2000 138 2000 138 2000 138 2000 138 2000 138 2000 138Reaction Rate moles kg hr to Ethylene Glycol 1,61 2,72 6,14 3,63 6,69 1,98 0,45 1,82 2,11Ethanol 1,01 2,81 7,51 5,50 6,97 1,82 0,60 2,37 2,46Ethane 0,341 0,15 1,89 0,274 0,605 0,046 0,023 0,129 0,10Monoethylene GlycolMonomethyl Ether 0,63 1,34 1,85 1,34 0,57 0,19 0,016 0,27 0,29Monoethylene GlycolMonoethyl Ether 0,34 0,446 3,36 0,628 2,02 0,33 0,037 0,61 0,71Methanol 0,12 0,47 0,93 NO 4,60 1,57 NO 1,94 1,78Dioxane 0,41 NO NO 0,13 7,46 2,71 NO 2,79 2,10 2 Oxodioxane 0,135 0,023 NO 0,06 NO 0,043 0,021 0,010 0,018 1,2 Butanediol a NO NO NO NO NO NO 0,055 NO NOOthers b 0,082 NO 0,036 0,64 2,19 0,241 0,242 0,377 0,28Selectivity mole percent Ethylene Glycol 52 59 47 49 35 36 50 29 37Ethylene Glycol amp Ethanol 43 59 52 62 34 35 58 34 40 a Small amounts of 4 butyrolactone and diethylene glycol monoethyl ether may also be included in this value. b Includes n butanol, acetaldehyde, diethyl ether, dimethyl ether, 2 methyldioxolane, 2,3 butanediol, propylene glycol, triethylene glycol and unknowns. TABLE I con t POLYALKYLENE GLYCOL HYDROGENOLYSIS BATCH PROCESS PRODUCT DATAEXAMPLE 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63Catalyst Identification XXXII LV XXXIX XXXIII LII XL XLI XLII XLIIITemperature, C 250 250 250 250 250 250 250 250 250Initial Pressure H2 , psig bar 2000 138 2000 138 2000 138 2000 69 2000 138 2000 138 2000 138 2000 138 2000 138Reaction Rate moles kg hr to Ethylene Glycol 2,08 3,81 11,62 0,18 1,48 2,20 1,31 1,10 0,99Ethanol 1,68 3,51 13,71 0,10 0,98 1,96 1,34 0,93 1,12Ethane 0,34 0,11 0,204 0,063 0,023 0,072 0,017 0,031 0,021Monoethylene GlycolMonomethyl Ether 0,24 0,673 3,83 0,41 0,092 0,415 0,671 0,382 0,448Monoethylene GlycolMonoethyl Ether 0,70 0,172 0,344 0,09 0,143 0,210 0,188 0,161 0,122Methanol 1,30 0,298 1,23 0,07 0,462 0,297 0,61 0,327 0,342Dioxane 1,15 0,798 0,791 0,02 0,043 0,049 NO 0,108 NO 2 Oxodioxane 0,05 0,028 0,007 NO NO 0,01 0,079 NO 0,086 1,2 Butanediol a NO 0,041 NO NO NO 0,014 NO 0,043 NOOthers b 0,157 0,914 0,093 0,072 0,33 1,13 0,012 0,230 0,033Selectivity mole percent Ethylene Glycol 48 60 65 24 80 56 57 56 56Ethylene Glycol amp Ethanol 43 58 71 18 66 53 58 52 60 a Small amounts of 4 butyrolactone and diethylene glycol monoethyl ether may also be included in this value. b Includes n butanol, acetaldehyde, diethyl ether, dimethyl ether, 2 methyldioxolane, 2,3 butanediol, propylene glycol, triethylene glycol and unknowns. TABLE I con t POLYALKYLENE GLYCOL HYDROGENOLYSIS BATCH PROCESS PRODUCT DATAEXAMPLE 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72Catalyst Identification XLIV XLV XLVI XXXIV XXXV LIII XLVII XLVIII XXXVITemperature, C 250 250 250 250 250 250 250 250 250Initial Pressure H2 , psig bar 2000 138 2000 138 2000 138 2000 69 2000 138 2000 138 2000 138 2000 138 2000 138Reaction Rate moles kg hr to Ethylene Glycol 1,22 1,71 10,54 0,88 1,56 5,97 3,04 3,52 0,36Ethanol 1,39 1,92 25,27 0,32 0,66 4,33 2,71 4,76 0,19Ethane 0,055 0,017 2,67 0,10 0,279 0,401 0,268 4,44 0,095Monoethylene GlycolMonomethyl Ether 0,334 0,539 0,316 0,09 NO 0,167 0,114 0,172 0,12Monoethylene GlycolMonoethyl Ether 0,165 0,174 3,39 0,29 0,081 2,82 0,479 2,20 0,04Methanol 0,259 0,521 1,25 0,07 NO 0,256 0,223 0,66 0,14Dioxane 0,114 0,038 0,098 3,31 1,33 0,064 NO 0,105 0,61 2 Oxodioxane NO 0,007 0,027 NO 0,013 NO 0,022 0,019 0,182 1,2 Butanediol a 0,278 NO 0,016 NO 0,968 NO 0,018 NO NOOthers b 0,346 0,248 0,166 0,091 0,086 0,143 0,401 0,197 NOSelectivity mole percent Ethylene Glycol 47 60 45 20 42 70 75 39 28Ethylene Glycol amp Ethanol 51 64 77 14 30 60 71 46 22 a Small amounts of 4 butyrolactone and diethylene glycol monoethyl ether may also be included in this value. b Includes n butanol, acetaldehyde, diethyl ether, dimethyl ether, 2 methyldioxolane, 2,3 butanediol, propylene glycol, triethylene glycol and unknowns. TABLE I con t POLYALKYLENE GLYCOL HYDROGENOLYSIS BATCH PROCESS PRODUCT DATAEXAMPLE 73 74 75 76 77 78 79Catalyst Identification XLIX XLIX LIV L XXXVII LVI LVIITemperature, C 250 250 250 250 250 250 250Initial Pressure H2 , psig bar 1000 69 2000 138 2000 138 2000 138 1000 69 2000 138 2000 138Reaction Rate moles kg hr to Ethylene Glycol 3,13 9,86 1,18 13,22 33,4 0,714 1,17Ethanol 0,66 5,54 1,54 11,48 2,01 0,96 0,86Ethane 1,66 11,82 0,045 5,75 5,98 0,111 0,008Monoethylene GlycolMonomethyl Ether 1,57 8,70 1,47 0,791 47,1 0,081 0,18Monoethylene GlycolMonoethyl Ether 0,98 4,82 0,29 2,42 2,53 0,111 0,076Methanol 0,34 1,94 1,23 0,745 5,19 0,305 0,653Dioxane 4,19 2,15 0,016 0,136 0,16 0,062 0,041 2 Oxodioxane 0,03 NO NO NO 0,255 0,04 NO 1,2 Butanediol a NO NO NO NO NO NO NOOthers b NO 0,398 0,01 0,181 0,111 0,493 0,079Selectivity mole percent Ethylene Glycol 33 33 37 70 47 43 84Ethylene Glycol amp Ethanol 20 26 43 66 25 50 73 a Small amounts of 4 butyrolactone and diethylene glycol monoethyl ether may also be included in this value. b Includes n butanol, acetaldehyde, diethyl ether, dimethyl ether, 2 methyldioxolane, 2,3 butanediol, propylene glycol, triethylene glycol and unknowns. Examples 1 through 39 illustrate the overall effectiveness of commercially available copper chromite catalysts as the hydrogenation catalyst of the present invention. Copper chromite is the most preferred hydrogenation catalyst for use in the hydrogenolysis process of this invention.When copper chromite is used as the hydrogenation catalyst, the selectivities of monoethylene glycol and ethanol may approach 95 molar percent each seeExamples 17, 23, 26 and 39 . Example 10 shows that the combined rate of monoethylene glycol and ethanol formation from diethylene glycol was greater than 15 1120 kg m moles kg cat. hr. or 70 lbs. cu. ft. hr. This rate is sufficiently high to be commercially desirable.Copper chromite has the further advantage of being relatively inexpensive and commercially available from a number of suppliers in a variety of formulations. Examples 15, 16 and 17 itiustrate the effect of pressure on the hydrogenolysis reaction using the same hydrogenation catalyst, i.e., copper chromate Catalyst VI , and the same temperature.As can be seen from Example 17, a pressure of about 2000 psig is preferred for obtaining overall desirable performance. It is noted that lower press ures tend to decrease the production rate and selectivity of ethanol. See also Examples 19, 20 and 21. The most preferred pressure for monoethylene glycol and ethanol araduction ranqes bq war 207 bar from about 1000 psig to about 3000 psig. Examples 17, 18 and 21 illustrate the effect of temperature on the hydrogenolysi s reaction using the same hydrogenation cat alyst, i.e ., copper chromite Catalyst VI , and the same pressure. As can be seen from Example 17, a temperature of about 2500C is preferred for obtaining overall desirable performance. The most preferred temperature for monoethylene glycol and ethanol production ranges from about 2250C to about 265 C, Examples 40 through 79 illustrate the effectiveness of other hydrogenation catalysts utilized in the hydrogenolysis process of this invention. Substantial promotional effects of calcium and molybdenum additives were observed on both the rate and selectivity of some catalysts. A comparison of Examples 74 and 76 illustrates a marked rate enhancement of monoethylene glycol. and ethanol formation from the addition of 2 percent by weight calcium as the oxide to a 2.5 percent by weight rhodium catalyst. Also, from a comparison ofExamples 74 and 76, it can be seen that the selectivity of monoethylene glycol ethanol production is increased from about 26 molar percent to about 66 molar percent. A comparison of Examples 60 and 66 shows that the addition of 2 percent by weight molybdenum to a 5 percent by weight palladium catalyst served to enhance the rate of monoethylene glycol and ethanol formation almost ten fold.This rate enhancement was accompanied by an increase in monoethylene glycol ethanol selectivity of from about 53 molar percent to about 77 molar percent. EXAMPLES 80 THROUGH 110 Examples 80 through 110 were conducted mm under continuous conditions in a 3 1 inch outside 4Ub mm diameter by 16 inch stainless steel tube reactor 35 milliliters volume which was coaxially fitted witch a 1.5 millimeter diameter stainless steel sheathed thermocouple in accordance with the following procedure. A 10 gram charge of catalyst, specifically identified for each example in Table II below, was dispersed in an equal volume of glass helices and placed in the stainless steel tube reactor with beds of glass helices occupying the space above and below the charged catalyst.The catalyst was then reduced in the stainless steel tube reactor by heating to l500C under flowing nitrogen. Molecular hydrogen was introduced and adjusted to a concentration of about 10 volume percent. The temperature and the molecular hydrogen concentration were then increased incrementally over a 48 hour period until the temperature reached 265 C and the reducing atmosphere was 100 volume percent molecular hydrogen. After reduction, the temperature and molecular hydrogen flow rate were adjusted to their desired levels. Diethylene glycol and molecular hydrogen were premixed at 2750C in a preheater filled with glass helices and of dimensions identical to that of the stainless steel tube reactor.The reactants were then passed downward over the catalyst bed at conditions of temperature, pressure, gas and liquid flow rates gas hourly space velocity and liquid hourly space velocity as indicated in Table II. The products were condensed and collected at reactor pressure.The liquid products and uncondensed gases were sampled periodically and analyzed by gas chromatography. Uncoverted molecular hydrogen was not recycled. The performance of catalysts tested in Examples 80 through 110 is given in Table II. TABLE II POLYALKYLENE GLYCOL HYDROGENOLYSIS CONTINUOUS PROCESS PRODUCT DATAEXAMPLE 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88Catalyst Identification VI VI VI VI VI VI VI VI VITemperature, C 250 250 250 250 265 225 225 225 250Pressure H2 , psig bar 500 34,5 1000 69 2000 138 3000 207 1000 69 1000 69 1000 69 1000 69 1000 69Gas Hourly Space Velocity H2 , hr 1 23,000 23,000 44,000 26,000 24,000 22,000 23,000 20,000 24,000Liquid Hourly Space Velocity DEG , hr 1 1.2 1.2 1.1 1.1 1.2 4.1 2.0 1.1 4.1Reaction Rate moles kg hr to Ethylene Glycol 1.46 1.97 2.67 2.31 2.30 1.92 1.90 1.63 5.11Ethanol 1.86 2.71 3.81 3.66 3.58 1.94 2.06 1.86 6.08Ethane 0.031 0.032 0.034 0.040 0,048 0.014 0.014 0.012 0.052Monoethylene GlycolMonomethyl Ether 0.016 0.009 0.005 0.006 0.015 NO 0.001 NO 0.005Monoethylene GlycolMonoethyl Ether 0.002 0.002 0.002 0.003 0.005 NO NO 0.001 0.005Methanol 0.055 0.051 0.046 0.061 0.110 0.036 0.022 0.405 0.127Dioxane NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO 2 Oxodioxane 0.055 0.012 0.002 NO 0.014 0.017 0.007 0.007 0.043 1.2 Butanediol a 0.057 0.066 0.078 0.123 0.151 0.006 0.023 0.030 0.177Others b 0.086 0.086 0.091 0.160 0.216 0.015 0.046 0.004 0.215Selectivity mole percent Ethylene Glycol 78 78 79 70 69 97 94 89 85Ethylene Glycol amp Ethanol 89 92 96 91 88 98 98 95 93 a Small amounts of 4 butyrolactone and diethylene glycol monoethyl ether may also be included in this value. b Includes n butanol, acetaldehyde, diethyl ether, dimethyl ether, 2 methyldioxolane, 2,3 butanediol, propylene glycol.triethylene glycol and unknowns. TABLE II con t POLYALKYLENE GLYCOL HYDROGENOLYSIS CONTINUOUS PROCESS PRODUCT DATAEXAMPLE 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97Catalyst Identification VI VI V V V VII VII VII VIITemperature, C 250 265 250 250 265 250 250 250 250Pressure H2 , psig bar 1000 69 1000 69 250 17,2 1000 69 1000 69 250 17,2 1000 69 1000 69 2000 138Gas Hourly Space Velocity H2 , hr 1 24,000 23,000 22,000 23,000 24,000 23,000 22,000 23,000 21,000Liquid Hourly Space Velocity DEG , hr 1 1.1 1.1 1.2 1.2 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.1 0.4Reaction Rate moles kg hr to Ethylene Glycol 3.07 3.73 1.40 1.52 2.27 1.12 1.75 1.40 2.49Ethanol 4.29 5.97 1.54 2.07 3.74 1.57 2.57 2.07 3.34Ethane 0.037 0.055 0.032 0.110 0.208 0.036 0.029 0.027 0.035Monoethylene GlycolMonomethyl Ether 0.007 0.011 0.042 0.018 0.053 0.011 0.006 0.004 0.003Monoethylene GlycolMonoethyl Ether 0.004 0.006 0.015 0.015 0.033 0.006 0.005 0.003 0.003Methanol 0.091 0.196 0.084 0.117 0.192 0.071 0.058 0.039 0.069Dioxane NO NO 0.023 0.013 0.023 NO NO NO 0.007 2 Oxodioxane 0.007 0.006 0.207 0.009 0.012 0.228 0.009 0.007 0.002 1.2 Butanediol a 0.130 0.273 0.132 0.110 0.158 0.081 0.080 0.054 0.098Others b 0.157 0.328 0.218 0.108 0.259 0.154 0.120 0.068 0.155Selectivity mole percent Ethylene Glycol 77 68 67 73 63 67 74 75 78Ethylene Glycol amp Ethanol 92 89 70 86 83 75 91 93 92 a Small amounts of 4 butyrolactone and diethylene glycol monoethyl ether may also be included in this value. b Includes n butanol, acetaldehyde, diethyl ether, dimethyl ether, 2 methyldioxolane, 2,3 butanediol, propylene glycol.triethylene glycol and unknowns. TABLE II con t POLYALKYLENE GLYCOL HYDROGENOLYSIS CONTINUOUS PROCESS PRODUCT DATAEXAMPLE 98 99 100 101 102 103 104 105 106Catalyst Identification IV IV IV IV IV IV IV IV IVTemperature, C 225 225 250 250 250 250 250 250 250Pressure H2 , psig bar 1000 69 1000 69 1000 69 1000 69 1000 69 2000 138 2000 138 1000 69 2000 138Gas Hourly Space Velocity H2 , hr 1 20,000 40,000 21,000 40,000 40,000 53,000 57,000 20,000 20,000Liquid Hourly Space Velocity DEG , hr 1 0.53 0.53 1.1 0.53 1.1 0.53 1.1 1.1 1.1Reaction Rate moles kg hr to Ethylene Glycol 0.56 0.67 1.97 1.53 2.48 1.35 2.30 2.09 2.22Ethanol 0.65 0.79 3.29 2.54 3.51 2.33 3.46 3.16 3.35Ethane 0.047 NO 0.066 0.043 0.103 0.068 0.073 0.053 0.069Monoethylene GlycolMonomethyl Ether 0.048 0.062 0.202 0.158 0.151 1.29 0.106 0.313 0.372Monoethylene GlycolMonoethyl Ether NO NO 0.023 0.016 0.013 0.016 0.017 0.011 0.016Methanol 0.020 0.028 0.129 0.136 0.125 0.111 0.077 0.112 0.167Dioxane NO NO 0.025 0.012 0.018 0.014 0.018 0.007 0.009 2 Oxodioxane NO NO 0.007 0.002 0.006 NO NO 0.012 NO 1.2 Butanediol a 0.012 0.015 0.127 0.080 0.118 0.050 0.079 0.088 0.025Others b 0.010 0.012 0.119 0.093 0.114 0.053 0.059 0.108 0.023Selectivity mole percent Ethylene Glycol 84 83 67 63 72 64 73 69 68Ethylene Glycol amp Ethanol 91 90 84 84 88 88 91 83 86 a Small amounts of 4 butyrolactone and diethylene glycol monoethyl ether may also be included in this value. b Includes n butanol, acetaldehyde, diethyl ether, dimethyl ether, 2 methyldioxolane, 2,3 butanediol, propylene glycol.triethylene glycol and unknowns. TABLE II con t POLYALKYLENE GLYCOL HYDROGENOLYSIS CONTINUOUS PROCESS PRODUCT DATAEXAMPLE 107 108 109 110Catalyst Identification IV IV IV IVTemperature, C 250 250 250 250Pressure H2 , psig bar 2000 138 2000 138 3000 207 3000 207Gas Hourly Space Velocity H2 , hr 1 20,000 20,000 20,000 20,000Liquid Hourly Space Velocity DEG , hr 1 2.0 4.0 2.0 2.0Reaction Rate moles kg hr to Ethylene Glycol 2.47 2.41 1.89 2.65Ethanol 3.19 3.02 2.79 4.53Ethane 0.059 0.072 0.066 0.102Monoethylene GlycolMonomethyl Ether 0.288 0.252 0.212 0.300Monoethylene GlycolMonoethyl Ether 0.012 0.010 0.013 0.017Methanol 0.138 0.099 0.100 0.191Dioxane 0.003 NO 0.009 0.016 2 Oxodioxane NO .009 NO NO 1.2 Butanediol a 0.029 0.035 0.031 0.069Others b 0.043 0.053 0.066 0.091Selectivity mole percent Ethylene Glycol 75 78 72 65Ethylene Glycol amp Ethanol 88 88 89 88Others c 12 12 11 12Ethylene Glycol Ethanol d 0.78 0.80 0.68 0.59 a Small amounts of 4 butyrolactone and diethylene glycol monoethyl ether may also be included in this value. b Includes n butanol, acetaldehyde, diethyl ether, dimethyl ether, 2 methyldioxolane, 2,3 butanediol, propylene glycol.triethylene glycol and unknowns. Examples 80 through 110 illustrate the overall effectiveness of the present invention when employing a continuous process. Copper chromite is the most preferred hydrogenation catalyst for use in the continuous process of this invention. TheSelectivities of monoethylene glycol and ethanol may approach or exceed 95 molar percent see Examples 85 and 86 when copper chromite is used as the hydrogenation catalyst in the continuous process.The combined rate of monoethylene glycol and ethanol formation resulting from the continuous process is also sufficiently high to be commercially desirable see Examples 88, 89 and 90 . Examples 80 through 110 illustrate the wide teinperature range and pressure range which may be employed in the continuous process. Temperatures ranging from about 22S0C to about 265 C see Examples 85. 9p n98 and 34,5 110 and pressures ranging from about 500 psig to 207 bar about 3,000 psfg see Examples 80,83 and 109 are most desirable for obtaining preferred monoethylene glycol ethanol selectivities and rates. The gas hourly space velocity GHSV and liquid hourly space velocity LHSV may also be varied over a wide range utilizing the continuous process. Gas hourly space velocities of from about 20,000 hr 1 to about 57,000 hr 1 see Examples 98 and 104 and liquid hourly space velocities of from about 0.4 hr 1 to about 4.1 hr 1 sge Examples 88 and 96 are highly desirable for obtaining preferred monoethylene glycol ethanol selectivites and rates. The most preferred GHSV can range from about 5,000 hr 1 to about. 75,000 hr 1 and the most preferred LHSV canrange from about 0.25 hr 1 to about 10 hr 1