# Safety belt retractor.

## Abstract
The spindle of the retractor is formed from a tube 10 on which a safety belt is wound, having an axially extending slot 20 in its peripheral surface and a core 12 containing a cavity 22 of length greater than that of the slot, which in turn, is greater than the width of the belt. A rigid bar 42 of length between that of the slot and that of the cavity extends through a loop formed in the end of the belt. One end of the cavity 22 has, a cam formation 28 configured so that, when one end of the bar 42 is inserted through the slot 20 into abutment with the end of said cam formation 28 further from the slot, the other end of the bar 42 can clear the other end of the slot 20 . When the bar 42 is subsequently pulled in an outward direction by the safety belt it is displaced by the cam formation 28 into an engaged position in which both ends thereof project within the cavity 22 beyond respective ends of the slot 20 .

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A safety belt retractor having a spindle 10 on which a safety belt 38 longer than the width of the belt 38 , is wound, the spindle having an axially extending siot 20 having a dimension in its peripheral surface, the corresponding dimension communicating with a cavity 22 in the spindle greater than of the slot 20 , and a rigid bar 42 dimensioned to fit in the cavity 22 but not to pass through the slot 20 extending through a loop formed in the end of the belt 38 , characterised in that the length of the bar 42 is greater than that of the slot 20 but less than that of the cavity 22 and one end of the cavity 22 has a cam formation 28 configured so that, when one end of the bar 42 is inserted through the slot 20 into abutment with the end of said cam formation 28 further from the slot 20 , the other end of the bar 42 can clear the other end of the slot 20 , but when the bar 42 is subsequently pulled in an outward direction by the safety belt 38 it is displaced by the cam formation 28 into an engaged position in which both ends thereof project within the spindle 16 beyond respective ends of the slot 20 . 2. A retractor according to claim 1, characterised in that said other end of the cavity comprises a formation 34 shaped to restrict inward radial movement of said other end of the bar 42 . 3. A retractor according to claim 1 or 2, characterised by a resilient projection 44 on the cam formation 28 adapted to inhibit radial inward displacement of the adjacent end of the bar from its engaged position. 4. A retractor according to claim 1, 2 or 3, characterised in that the spindle comprises a tube 10 , having the slot 20 formed therein, and a core 12 containing the cavity 22 . 5. A retractor according to claim 4, characterised in that the tube 10 is formed of metal and the core 12 is formed of a plastics material.

## Description
Safety Belt Retractor This invention relates to safety belt retracts and is particularly concerned with the connection of a safety belt to the spindle of a retractor. It is an object of the invention to provide a safety belt retractor with a spindle to which a safety belt can be connected after assembly of the retractor has been completed. According to the invention, a safety belt retractor has a spindle on which a safety belt is wound, the spindle having an axially extending slot in its peripheral surface communicating with a cavity in the spindle of length greater than that of the slot, which in turn, is greater than the width of the belt, a rigid bar of length between that of the slot and that of the cavity extending through a loop formed in the end of the belt, one end of the cavity having a cam formation configured so that ,when one end of the bar is inserted through the slot into abutment with the end of said cam formation further from the slot, the other end of the bar can clear the other end of the slot but when the bar is subsequently pulled in an outward direction by the safety belt it is displaced by the cam formation into an engaged position in which both ends thereof project within the spindle beyond respective ends of the slot. Preferably, the shape of the other end of the cavity is such as to restrict inward radial movement of said other end of the bar from said engaged position. An embodiment of the invention will now be described by way of example with reference to the accompanying drawings in which Figure 1 is a longitudinal cross sectional view of a retractor spindle in accordance with the invention, during insertion of the bar to which the webbing is connected, Figure 2 is a cross sectional view similar to Figure 1 showing the bar in its fully inserted position, and Figure 3 is a cross sectional view of the spindle only, taken on the line 3 3 in Figure 1, with the bar omitted. In Figure 1 the webbing forming the end of the safety belt to be connected to the retractor has been omitted for the sake of clarity. It is however shown in Figure 2. Referring to the drawings a safety belt retractor has a spindle in the form of a tube 10, of metal or other material of similar strength, containing a core 12 which may be of a plastics material. The spindle is journaled in bearing holes in a pair of end plates 14 and 16 forming part of the frame of the retractor. At the right hand end as viewed in Figures 1 and 2, the tube 10 extends into engagement with a locking mechanism not shown which may be of any known design. At the left hand end as viewed in Figures 1 and 2, the core 12 has a projection 18 which extends into engagement with a rewind spring not shown of conventional design. In accordance with the invention, a slot 20 is formed in the tube 10 between the end plates 14 and 16. The slot 20 communicates with a cavity 22 in the core 12 which is of the same width as the slot 20 but the ends of which, in the zone adjacent to the slot 20, extends at least partly under the end plates 14 and 16. The left hand end wall 24 of the cavity 22, as seen inFigures 1 and 2, has a recess 26, the bottom of which comprises a cam formation 28 which slopes to the left as viewed in Figures 1 and 2 with increassing distance from the slot 20. The part of the opposite end wall 30 of the cavity nearer to the slot 20 has a recess 32. The rest of the end wall 30 comprises a wedge formation 34 which extends more than half way across the cavity 22. The safety belt 38 which is to be connected to the retractor has its end doubled back and sewn at 40 to form a transverse loop through which a metal bar 42 is inserted. The width of the webbing 38 is less than the length of the slot 20 while the length of the bar 42 is between that of the slot 20 and the part of the cavity 22 adjacent to the slot 20. The thickness of the bar 42 is less than the width of the recesses 26 and 32 in the end walls of the cavity 22. The combined thickness of the bar 42 and the doubled belt surrounding it is less than the width of the slot 20. When the webbing 30 is to be connected to the spindle the bar 42 is first inserted into the loop in the end of the webbing. The bar 42 is then inserted between the end plates 14 and 16 at an angle as illustrated in chain dotted lines in Figure 1. From this position it can be inserted through the slot 20 to being the left hand end thereof into the end of the recess 26 further from the slot 20. As can be seen from Figure 1, in this position the other end of the bar 42 can clear the other end of the slot 20. If the webbing 38 is now pulled, the left hand end of the bar 42 is drawn towards the slot 20. Engagement of this end of the bar 42 with the cam formation 28 causes the bar 42 to be displaced to the right so that the other end thereof is pushed under the end of the slot 20 and into the recess 32 until the bar 42 reaches the position illustrated in Figure 2. In this position the ends of the bar 32 engage with the parts of the tube 10 which are directly aligned with the end plates 14 and 16 without imposing any significant bending force on the spindle. The wedge formation 34 tends to assist in the retention of the bar 32 in its fully inserted position and also renders it impossible for the left hand end of the bar 42 to be inserted into the slot 20 of the left hand end. However, it will be appreciated that the right hand end of the cavity could be modified in such a way as to permit either end of the bar 42 to be inserted before the other if this mode of assembly is desired. A resilient projection 44 may be provided on the cam formation 28 to retain the left hand end of the bar 42 in its position of use. The projection 44 is shaped to allow the end of the bar to snap over it during movement from the position shown in Figure 1, to that shown in Figure 2.