# Apparatus for spatially encoding a laser beam, comprising a Stark cell modulator.

## Abstract
Apparatus for coding a laser beam to provide guidance signals, or the like. In the transmitter, the laser beam traverses two modulators to provide two dimensional encoding. In the receiver, the detected signals are amplified, frequency discriminated, and mixed to form guidance signals. The mod ulator is a modified Stark cell wherein four split longitudinal planar electrodes allow for beam encoding as a function of two frequencies by the process of molecular absorption. Bias and modulating signals applied to the electrodes interact with the molecular absorbing gas and with the beam to encode position information as a function of the specific frequencies. The amplitude of the first encoding frequency varies from a maximum at one edge of the beam, decreasing to a minimum at the opposite edge, and vice versa for the second encoding frequency. The amplitudes of both are equal on beam center. A second embodiment utilizes a pair of internal bias elec trodes and four external electrodes to apply bias and modulat ing signals. The modulator wall is thin for penetration of the modulating signals so as to interact with the beam. A third embodiment utilizes four semicircular disc electrodes trans parent to laser light affixed to the cell endcaps to provide both bias and modulation. A gap separates electrodes affixed to the same endcap. The endcaps are oriented such that the gaps are mutually perpendicular to allow for orthogonal encoding of the beam.