# A microfiche information retrieval and control system utilizing machine readable microfiche and visually readable microfiche.

## Abstract
A parts management and inventory control system includes a microfiche data base 11 of two types of microfiche cards. One type is machine readable only, while the other type card bears machine readable information and visually read able information. The microfiche cards bear digital informa tion for machine reading. The digital information includes information to be read as output data and or information for controlling a microfiche card transport or a scanner transport in order to accurately position microfiche cards for informa tion retrieval. The system may interface with a central compu ter 19 for parts ordering, cancellation and the like, and a printer 14 provides a permanent business record. The sys tem may also be employed in the filed of finance in order to provide credit or bank account information with complete privacy with respect to the identification of the person whose account is being checked.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A combination for ensuring registration of data on a microfiche card with an optical path the combination comprising a microfiche card including a portion bearing data aligned in respect of a first predetermined line, a microfiche card carrier predeterminately located in respect of the optical path, and registration means on said carrier for engaging said card at at least two points on a second predetermined line parallel to said first predetermined line. 2. The combination of claim 1, wherein said microfiche card includes a pair of spaced apertures centered on said second predetermined line, and said registration means on said carrier includes a pair of pins spaced equal to the spacing of said apertures. 3. The combination of claim 1, wherein said microfiche card includes an edge extending along said first predetermined line, and said alignment means on said carrier includes at least one upstanding member along said second predetermined line for engaging said edge. 4. The combination of claim 3, wherein said microfiche card comprises another edge extending perpendicular to the first mentioned edge, and said carrier includes another upstanding member located on a line perpendicular to the first mentioned upstand ing member for engaging said other edge of said microfiche card. 5. A digital microfiche for use with an optical scanner, comprising a first storage area bearing optically retrievable first information arranged in a plurality of parallel rows, a second storage area bearing identification codes for at least one of said rows and first alignment codes for said one row, and a third storage area bearing second alignment codes for said one row identical to said first alignment codes, and a centering mark, said centering mark located on the centerline of said one row. 6. The digital microfiche of claim 5, comprising a centering mark, a first alignment code and a second alignment code for each of said rows. 7. The digital microfiche of claim 5, comprising a centering mark, a first alignment code and a second alignment code for at least two spaced apart rows. 8. A digital microfiche for use with an optical scanner, which is movable relative thereto, comprising a microfiche card including a header and a body, at least one information bearing frame on said body including a plurality of parallel rows of digital information extending generally perpendicular to said header, at least one centering mark located adjacent said header and on the centerline of a respective row, a first alignment code on said body at one end of and extending tranversely of the respective row, and a second alignment code located at the end of the respective row opposite said first alignment code, said first and second alignment codes defining any skew of the row with respect to the scanner when the scanner is reading said centering mark. 9. The digital microfiche of claim 8, comprising a separate centering mark for each of said rows, and wherein said first and second alignment codes extend transversely across all of said rows. 10. The digital microfiche of claim 8, comprising a second centering mark spaced from said one centering mark on the centerline of a corresponding row, and other first and second alignment codes at opposite ends of said corresponding row to recheck alignment at said corresponding row as the relative movement of the scanner and card positions the scanner at said corresponding row. 11. A digital microfiche for use with an optical scanner which extends in a first direction and is movable relative the microfiche in a second direction, comprising a microfiche member including a body storing digital information arranged in parallel rows which extend in the first direction, a plurality of centering marks, each of said centering marks located on the centerline of a respective row, a first band of code marks including a plurality of first code marks which constitute the addresses of each of said rows, said first code marks including first alignment marks, and a second band of code marks including second alignment marks, indicate any skew from the first direction between the scanner and a row when the scanner is located to read the respective centering mark. 12. The digital microfiche of claim 11, comprising a start of data mark and an end of data mark located immediately adjacent and at respective ends of said rows of digital data. 13. The digital microfiche of claim 11, wherein said first and second alignment marks are identical. 14, The digital microfiche of claim 11, comprising information frames which include said rows of digital information, and wherein said first band of code marks includes frame identification marks. 15. In a microfiche of the type which has information bearing frames spaced apart in rows which extend in at least a first direction, which frames are to be permeated by a light beam, the microfiche to be carried by a transport which is movable in at least the first direction, the improvement comprising a plurality of tracking lines on said microfiche extending in said first direction in the spaces between and adjacent each of said rows of frames to be sensed by a light sensor, a plurality of row identification codes between said tracking lines associated with and defining a frame address along the first direction to be read by the light sensor, and frame stop codes in the spaces between said tracking lines and at predetermined locations with respect to said frames, to be read by the light sensor. 16. The microfiche of claim 15, wherein said frame stop codes are spaced a predetermined distance from the centers of said frames. 17. The microfiche of claim 15, wherein said frame stop codes are spaced a predetermined distance from certain corners of said frames. 18 The microfiche of claim 15, wherein the frames are arranged spaced apart in an array so as to extend in the first and a second direction, and said tracking lines are first tracking lines and said row identification codes are first row identification codes, and said frame stop codes are first frame stop codes, and comprising a plurality of second tracking lines between said frames and extending in the second direction to be sensed by the light sensor, and a plurality of second row identification codes between said second tracking lines and defining a frame address along the second direction to be read by the light sensor, and a plurality of second frame stop codes in the spaces between said second tracking lines and at predetermined locations with respect to said frames, to be read by the light sensor. 19. The microfiche of claim 15, comprising auxiliary data codes between said tracking lines. 20. The microfiche of claim 19, wherein said auxiliary codes are between first and second, and second and third, tracking lines and are redundant. 21. A microfiche reading system for a microfiche which has rows of digital information extending in a first direction, a centering mark on the centerline of at least one of said rows, a first alignment code at one end of the one row, and a second alignment code at the opposite end of the one row, comprising a scanner including an optical sensor which extends in the first direction and which is mounted for movement, relative the microfiche, inthe first direction and which is pivotally mounted for arcuate movement, relative the microfiche, a sensor position drive and a sensor alignment drive, first means connected to said sensor position drive and operable to cause positioning of said sensor adjacent the one row of digital information in response to detection of the first alignment code, and operable to energize said sensor position drive until said sensor senses the centering mark, second means operable to compare the first and second alignment codes sensed by said sensor and provide a skew error, in response to misalignment of said sensor and the one row, to cause said sensor alignment drive to pivot said sensor to correct for the skew. 22. The microfiche reading system of claim 1, wherein each row has a centering mark, a first alignment code and a second alignment code and wherein said first means comprises a row address input means, a sensor register connected to said sensor for storing information read by said sensor, a counter connected to said sensor register for counting rows, and an increment register connected to said sensor register to cause said position drive to incrementally position said sensor until a centering mark is detected. 23. The microfiche reading system of claim 22, wherein said second means comprises a sensor alignment register connected to said sensor register for storing sensed first and second alignment codes, said first and second means including a programmed comparator register having inputs connected to said input means, said counter, said increment register and said alignment register, and outputs connected to said position and alignment drives, for causing positioning and alignment of said sensor in response to the data received at its inputs. 24. A microfiche reading system for positioning, in a viewing position, a selected frame of a microfiche which has a plurality of spaced apart frames arranged in rows which. are aligned in at least one direction and which frames have respective address codes stored on the microfiche, comprising a microfiche transport and an optical scanner, a selected one of said transport and optical scanner being movable to provide relative movement therebetween along the one direction, said transport supporting the microfiche adjacent said optical scanner, said scanner operable to read said stored addresses and provide corresponding first address signals corresponding to the frame address being scanned, register means connected to said scanner for storing said first address signals, drive means including positioning means connected to the movable one of said microfiche transport and optical. scanner and operable to move the same along the one direction, address input means for generating second address signals representing a selected frame to be positioned at the viewing position, and control means connected to said drive means and to said address input means and said register means for comparing said first and second address signals and causing operation of said drive means in response to differences therebetween. 25. The system of claim 24, wherein the microfiche includes a plurality of parallel tracking lines extending along the rows of frames, and wherein said scanner includes track scanning means for detecting the tracking lines and providing tracking signals, said drive means includes error means for causing movement in a second direction perpendicular to the one direction, and said system comprises a tracking comparator connected to said track scanning means for comparing said tracking signals to reference tracking signals and providing tracking error signals to said error means to cause compensating movement to correct tracking. 26. A microfiche reading system for positioning, in a viewing position, a selected frame of a microfiche which has a plurality of frames arranged spaced apart in an array of columns and rows and frame column and row addresses codes stored on the microfiche in the spaces between the columns and the rows, respectively, comprising address input means operable to generate selected column and row address signals corresponding to a desired frame to be viewed, a microfiche transport for supporting the microfiche and including first positioning means operable in response to first positioning signals to move the microfiche along the column direction and second position means operable in response to second positioning signals to move the microfiche along the row direction, optical scanning means adjacent said microfiche transport for reading said column and row address codes and producing corresponding column and row address signals, control means connected to said scanning means and said address input means and to said transport for comparing said selected and corresponding address signals and generating the first and second positioning signals in response to differences between the selected and read addresses. 27. A data record to be read with an optical scanner which extends in a first direction, comprising a microfiche card, said microfiche card including at least one first information storage area storing output data in rows which extend in the first direction, at least one second information storage area storing row center data aligned with and indicating the centers of the rows of output data, third and fourth, spaced apart, information storage areas, said third information storage area storing row identification data for each row of output data, and each of said third and fourth information storage areas storing, for each row of output data, skew data oriented with respect to the first direction such that the scanner must read different skew data when there is skew of the scanner with respect to a row of output data. 28. The data record of claim 27, wherein said third and fourth information storage areas lie on opposite sides of said first information storage area. 29. The data record of claim 27, wherein said second information storage area comprises a plurality of center marks extending in a row in a second direction. 30. The data record of claim 29, wherein said third and fourth information storage areas lie on opposite sides of said first information storage area. 31. The data record of claim 30, wherein said third information area lies between said first and second information areas. 32. The data record of claim 27, wherein said output data is in digital form. 33. The data record of claim 32, wherein said output data comprises COM generated data. 34. The data record of claim 27, wherein said row identification is in digital form. 35. The data record of claim 27, wherein said skew data is in digital form. 36. The data record of claim 35, wherein said skew data comprises a pair of identical digital codes located in said third and fourth information storage areas, respectively. 37. The data record of claim 27, wherein said information storage areas are carried across said microfiche card in the order of second, third, first and fourth information storage areas. 38. A data record to be read by an optical scanner which extends in a first direction, comprising a microfiche data carrier, a plurality of parallel rows of output data borne by said data carrier, a plurality of first marks borne by said data carrier extending in a row in a second direction, each mark aligned centered of a respective row of output data, a plurality of second marks adjacent and identifying respective rows of output data, a plurality of third marks forming a first digital skew code at and on each side of a centerline through each first mark and its respective row of output data, a plurality of fourth marks forming a second digital skew code identical to the first digital skew code at and on each side of each of the centerlines, said skew codes defining skew upon misalignment of the scanner and a centerline. 39. A data record to be scanned in a first direction by an optical scanner, comprising a microfiche card including a plurality of rows of digital output information, each of said rows extending parallel to each other of said rows and perpendicular to the direction of scanning. 40. The data record of claim 39, comprising a pair of skew codes, each skew code located spaced from the other skew code at and on each side of thecenter line of the first row to define skew misalignment between the scanner and the centerline, at the beginning of a scan. 41. A method of aligning an optical sensor with a row of digital information carried by a microfiche, comprising the steps of applying an address code for the row on the microfiche to identify the row, including first alignment data at one end of the row, applying a center mark on the centerline of the row, applying second alignment data on the microfiche at the opposite end of the row, scanning across the microfiche until the address code is sensed, continuing scanning until the center mark is sensed, reading and comparing the first and second alignment codes to determine any skew between the centerline of the sensor and the centerline of the row. 42. The method of claim 41, comprising the further steps of correcting skew between the sensor and the row. 43. The method of claim 42, comprising the further step of scanning the digital information of the row and generating corresponding output signals. 44. A method of positioning a frame of a microfiche at a viewing position, comprising the steps of applying digital address codes along a row of frames, applying a frame stop code for each frame on the microfiche, scanning across the row of frames with an optical sensor until a desired address code is sensed, and continuing scanning until a frame stop code is sensed. 45. The method of claim 44, further comprising the steps of applying a plurality of parallel tracking lines on the microfiche parallel to the row of frames, sensing the tracking lines while scanning for the desired address code, and correcting the relative positions of the sensor and microfiche to maintain all tracking lines within the sensing range of the sensor. 46. In a microfiche of the type which has information bearing frames spaced apart in rows which extend in at least a first direction, which frames are to be permeated by a light beam, the microfiche to be carried by a transport which is movable in at least the first direction, the improvement comprising at least one tracking line on said microfiche extending in said first direction parallel to said rows of frames to be sensed by a light sensor, a plurality of row identification codes associated with and defining frame addresses on said microfiche along the first direction to be read by the light sensor, and frame stop codes at predetermined locations with respect to said frames, to be read by the light sensor. 47. Apparatus for reading a microfiche which bears rows of digital information and addresses for the rows of digital information, comprising microfiche support means for receiving a digitized microfiche thereon, an optical sensor for reading the digital information on the microfiche, transport means mounting one of said support means and sensor for movement one relative to the other, input means for selectively inputting the row addresses, control means connected between said input means and said transport means and responsive to an address to cause said transport means to position the addressed row of the microfiche in alignment with said sensor, and output means connected to said sensor, including display means for displaying the addressed information. 48. Apparatus for reading a microfiche which bears areas of digital information, comprising scanning means for optically scanning the areas of digital information in a predetermined sequence to generate digital signals corresponding to the stored information, and means connected to said scanning means for receiving and storing the digital signals. 49. A method of reading a microfiche which bears areas of information thereon, comprising the steps of optically scanning and generating electrical signals representing the information, and storing information representing the electrical signals. 50. Apparatus for reading a microfiche which carries digital information, comprising scanning means for optically scanning the microfiche and producing digital signals, converter means connected to said scanning means for converting the digital signals into other signals representing graphic information, and display means connected to said converter means and responsive to said other signals to display the graphic information. 51. The apparatus of claim 50, wherein said converter means comprises a video generator, and said display means is a television receiver. 52. The apparatus of claim 50, wherein said converter comprises a decoder, and said display means comprises an alphanumeric display unit. 53. A method of reading a microfiche which carries information, comprising the steps of optically scanning and generating first electrical signals representing the information, converting the first electrical signals into second electrical signals, and applying the second electrical signals to a display unit to display images corresponding to the scanned information. 54. The method of claim 53, wherein the step of converting is further defined as converting the first electrical signals into video signals. 55. The method of claim 53, wherein the step of generating is further defined as generating digital first electrical signals and the step of converting is further defined as decoding the digital first signals into digital second signals representing alphanumeric characters. 56. A parts management and inventory control system comprising a plurality of first microfiche, each of said first microfiche including a first header and a first body, said first body including addressed first areas of optically viewable parts information and an index area bearing parts descriptions and corresponding first addresses, and said header bearing indicia designating the parts contained on that microfiche, a plurality of second microfiche, each of said second microfiche including a second header and a second body, said second header bearing indicia identifying the respective second microfiche, and said body including addressed second areas of digital information each including manufacturer s part number and price, said viewable parts information on said first body including for each respective part a locator number which includes a first portion which is the identifying indicia of the corresponding second microfiche and a second portion which constitutes the address of the respective part information on that second microfiche, a viewer including a microfiche viewer transport means for receiving a first microfiche and an optical system having a viewing screen, said viewer also including homing means operable to position said viewer transport means such that said index area is projected on said viewing screen, and first key in addressing means operable in response to keying in a first address to position said transport means such that a desired addressed first area is projected on said viewing screen, a scanner including an optical scanning sensor means for receiving a second microfiche, and second key in addressing means operable in response to keying in a second portion of a locator number to cause said sensor means to scan the digital information identified by the keyed in second portion of the locator number, an alphanumeric display connected to said scanner, and display activation means connected to said scanner for converting and applying the digital information to said display means. 57. The apparatus of claim 56, wherein each of said first microfiche comprises, in each of said first area, pictorial views of the parts and alphanumeric descriptions of the parts. 58. The apparatus of claim 56, wherein each of said second microfiche comprises, in each of said second areas, digital information stating whether the respective part is carried in stock. 59. A parts management and inventory control system comprising a plurality of first microfiche, each of said first microfiche including a first header and a first body, said first body including addressed first areas of optically viewable parts information and an index area bearing parts descriptions and corresponding first addresses, and said header bearing indicia designating the parts contained on that microfiche, a plurality of second microfiche, each of said second microfiche including a second header and a second body, said second header bearing indicia identifying the respective second microfiche, and said body including addressed second areas of digital information each including manufacturer s part number and price, said viewable parts information on said first body including for each respective part a locator number which includes a first portion which is the identifying indicia of the corresponding second microfiche and a second portion which constitutes the address of the respective part information on that second microfiche, a viewer including an optical system, a viewing screen, transport means for receiving and positioning a first microfiche with respect to said optical system, a scanner including an optoelectric scanning sensor means for receiving and scanning a second microfiche, an alphanumeric display means, and control means connected to said viewer, said scanner and said alphanumeric display means, said control means including address input means including pre programmed home address means and selectively operable addressing keys, a programmed control circuit connected to said viewer transport means, to said scanner and to said address input means, first activation means connected to said control circuit and operable to cause said control circuit to position said transport means so that said index area appears on said viewer screen to provide a parts address to be selectively keyed in with said addressing keys, second activation means connected to said control circuit and operable to cause said control circuit to position said transport means so that the addressed first area appears on said viewer screen to provide the corresponding information including the desired locator number whose second portion is to be selectively keyed in with said addressing keys to access a second microfiche identified by the first portion of said locator number, and third activation means connected to said control circuit and operable to cause said control circuit to operate said scanner to read the addressed second area and apply the read information to said alphanumeric display means. 60. The system of claim 59, and further comprising a printer connected to said control circuit, and fourth activation means connected to said control circuit and operable to cause control circuit to activate said printer to record the information appearing on said alphanumeric display means. 61. The system of claim 60, and further comprising magnetic recorder means connected to said control circuit, and fifth activation means operable to cause said control circuit to activate said recorder to record the content of the alphanumeric display means and specific order data. 62. The system of claim 61, wherein said fifth activation means includes selectively operable cancel and order keys which are operable to provide the respective order data. 63. The system of claim 62, and further comprising a remotely located parts order computer which is connectible to a telephone system, and a modulator demodulator unit which may be coupled to the telephone system and which is connected to said magnetic recorder means for transmitting the content of the recorder means to said computer. 64. The system of claim 59, and further comprising a parts facility housing said system, said parts facility including a plurality of parts locations, each of said parts locations bearing a respective one of said locator number. 65. The system of claim 59, wherein said viewable parts information includes drawings of the parts and a tabulation of alphanumeric information concerning the respective parts. 66. Apparatus for checking financial account information, comprising a display device, a microfiche bearing addressed areas each of which includes account information, a scanner operatively connected to said display device and including an optical sensor and a control circuit connected to operate said sensor in response to an input address, and key address input means connected to said control circuit and operable to input an account number as an address. 67. A bank signature card system comprising a microfiche bearing areas containing customer signatures and addresses corresponding to the customer account numbers and identifying the locations of the signatures, optical system including a microfiche transport and a viewing screen, a control circuit connected to drive said transport in response to input addresses, and an input keyboard connected to said control circuit and operable to key in a customer account number to bring the respective signature on the viewing screen. 68. A financial management and control system comprising a plurality of first microfiche, each of said first microfiche including a first header and a first body, said first body including addressed first areas of optically viewable customer signatures and an index area bearing customer names and account numbers as first addresses, and said header bearing indicia designating the group of signatures contained on that microfiche, a plurality of second microfiche, each of said second microfiche including a second header and a second body, said second header bearing indicia identifying the respective second microfiche, and said body including addressed second areas of digital information each including customer account information, said viewable parts information on said first body including for each respective signature a locator number which includes a first portion which is the identifying indicia of the corresponding second microfiche and a second portion which constitutes the address of the respective customer account information on that second microfiche, a viewer including a microfiche viewer transport means for receiving a first microfiche and an optical system having a viewing screen, said viewer also including homing means operable to position said viewer transport means such that said index area is projected on said viewing screen to check customer names and account numbers, and first key in addressing means operable in response to keying in a first address to position said transport means such that a desired addressed first area and the desired signature is projected on said viewing screen, a scanner including an optical scanning sensor means for receiving a second microfiche, and second key in addressing means operable in response to keying in the second portion of a locator number to cause said sensor means to scan the digital information identified by the keyed in second portion of the locator number, an alphanumeric display connected to said scanner, and display activation means connected to said scanner for converting and applying the digital information to said display means. 69. The system of claim 68, wherein said address portion of said locator number comprises the customer account number. 70. The system of claim 68, wherein said customer account information constituted by digital information on a second microfiche comprises the customer account number. 71. A financial management and control system comprising a plurality of first microfiche, each of said first microfiche including a first header and a first body, said first body including addressed first areas of optically viewable customer signatures and an index area bearing customer names and corresponding account numbers as first addresses, and said header bearing indicia designating the group of signatures contained on that microfiche, a plurality of second microfiche, each of said second microfiche including a second header and a second body, said second header bearing indicia identifying the respective second microfiche, and said body including addressed second areas of digital information each including customer account information, said viewable parts information on said first body including for each respective signature a locator number which includes a first portion which is the identifying indicia of the corresponding second microfiche and a second portion which constitutes the address of the respective customer account information on that second microfiche, a viewer including an optical system, a viewing screen, transport means for receiving and positioning a first microfiche with respect to said optical system, a scanner including an opto electric scanning sensor means for receiving and scanning a second microfiche, an alphanumeric display means, and control means connected to said viewer, said scanner and said alphanumeric display means, said control means including address input means including pre programmed home address means and selectively operable addressing keys, a programmed control circuit connected to said viewer transport means, to said scanner and to said address input means, first activation means connected to said control circuit and operable to cause said control circuit to position said transport means so that said index area appears on said viewer screen to provide a check of customer name against account number and obtain the address to be selectively keyed in with said addressing keys, second activation means connected to said control circuit and operable to cause said control circuit to position said transport means so that the addressed first area appears on said viewer screen to provide the corresponding customer signature and the locator number whose second portion is to be selectively keyed in with said addressing keys to access a second microfiche identified by the first portion of said locator number, and third activation means connected to said control circuit and operable to cause said control circuit to operate said scanner to read the addressed second area and apply the read account information to said alphanumeric display means. 72. The system of claim 71, wherein said address portion of said locator number comprises the customer account number. 73. The system of claim 71, wherein said customer account information constituted by digital information on a second microfiche comprises the customer account number. 74. An information record comprising a microfilm body including a peripheral edge extending about said body, a marginal first area adjacent said peripheral edge and a second area adjacent said first area, said second area bearing rows of digital information, and said first area bearing digital addresses, each address adjacent and identifying a respective row of digital information.

## Description
DESCRIPTION A Microfiche Information Retrieval and Control SystemUtilizing Machine Readable Microfiche and Visually Read able Microfiche Field of the Invention This invention relates to microfiche information retrieval techniques, and is more particularly concerned with the provision and retrieval of digital information on a microfiche card, which information is to be retrieved for data processing purposes in, for example, a parts management and inventory control system or in an accounts management and checking system.Description of the Prior Art It is well known in the art to provide control information on reel or cartridge or microfilm to identify frames along the length of the microfilm, This information may be in the form of alphanumeric characters which are visually read on a trial and error basis until the desired frame is properly positioned for reading in a viewer.It is also well known in the art to place control information along the edge of a strip of microfilm to be read by an optical scanner in order to place a desired frame within the viewing field of a viewer, It is also known in the art to mechanically address and position a microfiche transport, on an x y basis, in order to register a desired frame of information within the viewing field of a viewer however, mechanical techniques are expen sive, and the expense increases with increased accuracy of registration, With respect to microfiche cards used in parts management and inventory control systems, such as may be used in the retail, automotive and farm equipment industries, or accounts credit check and signature card systems in the banking industry, a card is placed on an x y transport, generally manually operated, and the desired frame is obtained, again by a trial and error method through repeated repositionings of the card until the desired frame appears on the viewer. Heretofore, microfiche cards have been limited to providing, in conjunction with parts catalogues and the like, visually readable graphic illustrations and or alphanumeric information, such as generally found in retail catalogue and parts ordering systems. To generally sum up the state of the art, alphanumeric and digital codes have been provided on reeltype microfilm for visual or electronic observation, while microfiche cards have been provided with visual indicators to identify the position of a frame within a matrix of frames on a card. The primary object of the present invention is to provide a management system for parts and accounts information retrieval. A more specific object of the invention is to provide a microfiche information retrieval system which utilizes a data base which is easily and inexpensively up dated. Another specific object of the invention is to provide a new and improved parts management and inventory control system. Another specific object of the invention is to provide a new and improved bank and credit account information checking system. According to the invention, two basic types of cut microfiche, hereinafter simply called microfiche or microfiche cards, are provided as a data base. One type of microfiche card, called a viewer microfiche , bears graphic information and digital information, the differences between such information being discussed below. In a parts management and inventory control system two types of viewer microfiche are provided 1 A parts microfiche which bears graphic information concerning parts, such as an exploded view of a pump or the like, and parts identification and location information and 2 A master 1 microfiche which bears the manu facturer s part numbers and related system locator numbers. The second type of microfiche is a totally digital microfiche which bears machine readable codes. More specifically, in a parts management and inventory control system PMIC the second type of microfiche is called a price microfiche and bears digital codes which indicate manufacturer s part number, locator number, current price and if the part is presently in stock. The locator number may serve two purposes 1 Identify the correct price microfiche and provide an address for the information concerning the part being investigated and 2 Provide a physical location of the part in the dealer s warehouse. The PMIC system and related banking and retail catalogue systems are based upon a concept having the following features 1 Microfiche cards bear digital information which may be of several types and may be employed in conjunction with graphic information 2 The digital information on a microfiche card may be employed in conjunction with an optical scanner for locating a certain area on the card, which area may contain digital or graphic information 3 The microfiche card, in conjunction with a scanner, locates a desired area to be scanned and adjusts the scanner or card transport, if necessary, with respect to skew so that the scanner and the information to be read are in accurate alignment and 4 Apparatus is provided for accurately locating a microfiche card with respect to a scanner, including structure for con trolling operation of the scanner so as to detect positioning marks on the card which, after positioning, control the posi tion of the card and or scanner transport. A microfiche card generally includes a header and a body, The header usually bears some type of text which identifies the card and its general content, while the body of the card bears the information sought to be retrieved. As has been indicated above, and as will be more fully appreciated from the detailed discussions below, the information to be retrieved may be graphic information or, according to the present invention, digital information. More specifically, in a PMIC system, a master microfiche has a header comprising a sequential range of manufacturer part numbers and the body of the microfiche comprises the individual part numbers and the respective corresponding system locator numbers. The locator numbers may denote physical stock locations, as well as serve the primary function of identifying the corresponding price microfiche and addresses of the price microfiche inventory and price information. A parts microfiche has a header which carries manufacturer model and part numbers, while the body bears graphic information concerning the parts, manufacturer part number, general descriptions of the parts, and corresponding locator numbers. The price microfiche bears a price microfiche number on the header, while manufacturer number information and current sale price are carried on the body portion of the microfiche. In banking and credit check applications, as will be understood from the detailed description below, a digital microfiche corresponding to a PMIC price microfiche may include account information in a machine readable form only, and may be accessed by appropriate addressing, such as by bank or credit card account number, and provide an account check in complete privacy from all persons, including the clerk or teller, as the case may be, who is seeking such information. It should be noted that, as used herein, digital information is generally meant to identify marks, either opaque on clear or clear on opaque, while the term graphic information is generally meant to identify all other forms of information including alphanumeric information, drawings and the like. Also, contrasting colors may be used for digital and or graphic information when such display is desired, such as for example in television applications. In the context of a parts management and inventory control system, the present invention may advantageously be embodied in a system which comprises the aforementioned master, parts and price microfiche and apparatus for retrieving the information stored on such microfiche. In such a system, a viewer microfiche master of parts is positioned in a viewer, addressed and read to find a pertinent locator number which is assigned to a part being investigated. The locator number includes a price microfiche identification number to identify the pertinent price microfiche.The price microfiche is selected and placed in a scanner.Then, the locator number is keyed into the system to cause the scanner to access the price inventory information concerning that particular part. Finally, upon command, the price and inventory information is displayed by means of, for example, a light emitting diode LED display unit. If a sale or parts order is made, the system is provided with a printer for making a permanent record of the transaction and, in the case of an order, or a cancellation due to newly received previously ordered parts , the transaction information is stored, at least on a temporary basis, for later communication to a central parts management computer.Such storage may advantageously be made with a magnetic tape unit and communicate to the central computer by way of the commercial telephone network by utilizing either a modulator demodulator MODEM unit or a coderdecoder CODEC arrangement. All digital inter unit and inter network transmissiqn may be accomplished with a specific digital code, such as the ASCII code. A price microfiche, also called a scanner microfiche is intended to define a convenient, readonly, transportable, filable, data base constructed in standard microfiche form. The microfiche may bear written, graphic, audio or other information. The scanner microfiche may carry the information in digital or analog form and can be read with a scanner, transformed electronically to any desirable form, and can be displayed or used in any desired manner, or can be read with a TV camera and processed as a standard TV picture of signals. When the scanner microfiche is employed to provide data for another machine, such as a computer to accept and store, the entire microfiche may contain data only, an incremental encoding, as disclosed below, is not needed, except perhaps for initial alignment or periodic alignment purposes.A viewer microfiche is also a convenient, read only, transportable, filable, data base in standard microfiche form. The information content may be written, graphic, audio, or other information. In contrast to the scanner microfiche, however, it is intended that the viewer microfiche have the information to be retrieved by projection onto a viewing screen. With respect to the scanner microfiche, by usingCON techniques, the present invention utilizes the possibility of generating, printing and distributing digital information at less expense and at greater speed than heretofore known. A particular advantage of all the microfiche cards used in the present invention is that information may be distributed, and updated, by mail, on an inexpensive basis, to provide a current inexpensive data base. Other objects, features and advantages of the invention, its organization, construction and operation will be best understood from the following detailed description, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, on which FIG. 1 is a schematic pictorial representation of a parts management and inventory control system constructed in accordance with the present invention FIG. 1A is a fragmentary view of the digital display of the apparatus of FIG. 1, shown in greater detail FIG. 1B is a schematic representation of the scanner as applied to bank account and credit account status checking FIG. 1C is a schematic representation of a scanner as a part of a computer for programming the computer FIG. 2 is a fragmentary view of a portion of a master viewer type microfiche FIG. 3 is a fragmentary view of a portion of a parts viewer type microfiche FIG. 4 is a plan view of a portion of a digitized scanner price microfiche which is illustrated inFIG. 5, the information illustrated thereon being handgenerated digital information FIG. 6 illustrates a portion of another scanner price microfiche, similar to that illustrated inFIG. 5, on which the digital information is COMgenerated information FIG. 7 is a schematic block diagram of a system for aligning and reading a microfiche card of the type illustrated in FIGS. 4 6, with a scanner sensor FIG. 8 is a plan view of a portion of a viewer microfiche card which has alignment and locating tracks in the grid between the viewable information frames FIGS. 9 11 illustrate scanning, alignment and frame finding techniques which may be employed in conjunction with the viewer microfiche card of FIG. 8, including proper tracking, frame centering and frame cornering FIG. 12 illustrates the use of auxiliary codes on a viewer microfiche card FIG. 13 illustrates the use of redundant auxiliary codes on a viewer microfiche card and FIG. 14 is a schematic block diagram of a system for transporting and accurately positioning a viewer microfiche card for subsequent viewing, and for controlling and reading a scanner price microfiche. Inasmuch as a plurality of different aspects of the invention are discussed below for accurately aligning and reading microfiche cards, these techniques will be discussed separately in accordance with the following outline I. GENERAL SYSTEMS CONCEPTS A. PMIC Systems Concepts B. Banking and Credit Check Systems Concepts SCANNER MICROFICHE A. Control Data and Output Data B. Reading Scanner Microfiche III. VIEWER MICROFICHE A. Tracking B. Stop At Frame Center C. Stop At Frame Corner D. Auxiliary Codes E. Reading Viewer Microfiche F. Exemplary ProgramIV. COMBINED DIGITIZED AND VIEWER MICROFICHE INFORMATION RETRIEVAL A. Parts Management and Inventory Control ExampleV. SINGLE MICROFICHE CONTROL SYSTEMS A. Banking and Credit Check Examples B. TV Applications C. Computer Program I. GENERAL SYSTEMS CONCEPTSA.PMIC Systems Concepts The PMIC system was designed with an overall view of improving product or parts management and inventory control. More specifically, the PMIC system services seven areas which are critical to efficient parts management and inventory control, namely 1 parts are identified 2 prices are found rapidly 3 parts are retrieved quickly from stock with bin numbers provided by the system 4 records are made of the day s transactions 5 parts are ordered from a central location, preferably via a central computer 6 orders are fulfilled and 7 critical information such as availability, substitution and price change are kept up to date. The importance of each of these areas becomes readily apparent when one considers the fact that a customer must be quickly serviced, the dealer must have complete records of his sales, orders and inventory, as well as up to date price and substitution information, and the central warehouse must be provided, not only with orders, but also with the fact that orders have been received and should not be carried as back ordered parts.B. Banking and Credit Check Systems Concepts A customer s account may be checked, upon the presentation of a personal check or credit card, for example, by utilizing the account number to address a digitized scanner microfiche. The information read from the fiche may readily be converted into alphanumeric account identification and account status information and displayed on a LED unit, with complete privacy as to the name of the customer. In this manner, rapid credit checks can be made through the simple use of digitized microfiche cards, and a scanner which has an input keyboard and an output display unit. It is also possible to place bank account signature cards on viewer microfiche and key in the customer s account number so as to compare an endorsement on a withdrawal slip, for example, with the signature of the customer as seen on the viewer. Information as to the scanner microfiche, the viewer microfiche and information relating to proper alignment, addressing and tracking, is provided immediately below so as to aid in understanding the present invention, the discussion of which will follow in connection with FIGS. 1, lA, 2 and 3, with a reversion to FIGS. 7 and 14. II. SCANNER MICROFICHE Before continuing with a discussion of viewertype microfiche, and because an operating program immediately follows the discussion of the viewer microfiche, attention is directed to FIGS. 4 7 which illustrate various techniques of manually generated and COMgenerated data, and techniques for ensuring alignment between the data to be retrieved and a sensor.A. Control Data and Output Data Referring first to FIGS. 4 and 5, a microfiche card 50 is generally illustrated in FIG. 5 as comprising a body 52 composed of a plurality of information storage areas 54, and a header 56. In the associated scanner apparatus, discussed in greater detail below, a linear photosensor is oriented transversely to the long dimension of the microfiche. In apparatus which has been constructed, the sensor is placed in direct contact with the microfiche card. However, an optical system may be employed to project the microfiche images on a sensor. The use of an optical system is determined by the particular application. The sensor may comprise a single continuous line of photocells fabricated as a single unit that spans the entire width dimension, 105mm for example, of the microfiche card, or the sensor can be constructed of any number of segments, each segment containing a number of photocells, with the segments fabricated as a single unit that spans the entire 105mm dimension of the microfiche card. The sensor can also be constructed of a single segment, or a number of segments, that span less than a full width of the microfiche card, or a matrix of cells which can sense a block of data, or a linear sensor in combination with a TV camera. The light source that activates the sensor is located on the same side of a microcard as the sensor, whereas in microfiche applications the microfiche is located between the source and the sensor. The entire sensor is moved left to right or rightto left in the long direction of the microfiche. This is, of course, relative motion and in actual practice either the sensor or the card may be the moving element. As will be discussed below, logic circuits control the rate and mode of movement of the sensor. As will he greatly appreciated by those skilled in the art, the sensor or the transport is mounted with a pivot, located at the upper end in the case of the sensor, and a device to move the bottom end of the sensor either left or right is provided to bring the sensor in complete alignment with a single vertical line of data that is to be read. The drives discussed herein with reference to block diagrams may advantageously with worm gear mechanisms and may utilize, for example, 2 DC servo motor manufactured by Transcoil, Inc.,Part Number K 2l 5540 3 2 6 3. Referring to FIG. 4, a schematic illustration of a storage area 54 illustrates manually generated information. Inasmuch as this sample was manually generated, continuous bars have been employed in portions of the coding. The same microfiche card can be generated by COM techniques, in which case the bars would not necessarily be continuous. The example of a scanner microfiche card illustrated in FIGS. 4 and 5 contains all digital data and is not typical in the sense that all frames are identical and widely spaced. In a practical scanner microfiche card of this type, centering marks, incremental encoding and start of data codes would be placed only at the top row of frames, and the end of data and bottom sensor alignment codes would be placed only at the bottom row of frames, these codes being shown in FIG. 4 on both sides of the area 54 to aid in understanding the invention. In a microfiche card of this type, there would be very little unused space. Referring to the storage area 54 illustrated inFIG. 4, the data which is to be retrieved from the microfiche card are provided as opaque on clear or clear on opaque marks, here opaque on clear marks, in the form of rows of data 58 which are aligned transversely of the microfiche card. Again, contrasting colors can be used. The card bears a plurality of centering marks 60, each of which is aligned with a respective data row 58.The microfiche card also carries incremental and coding data 62, a start of data code 64, the data field 66, and end of data code 68 and bottom sensor alignment codes 70. With the exception that the end of data code 68 and the bottom sensor alignment codes 70 are actually provided physically displaced on the codes 60, 62 and 64 on a card, the card is laid out in a plurality of elongate data rows 0 80. It is the incremental encoding 62, however, which identifies and forms the addresses of the data rows 58. Referring to FIG. 5, a storage area 54 is illustrated. This storage area is quite similar to that of FIG. 4, with the exception that the data field, generally indicated at 78, is COM generated data This data may also be manually generated. In addition, with this type of microfiche card, although the same may be employed in the same manner as that of FIG. 4, may be employed as a programming tool in which the data 78 is to be fed step by step into another machine, such as a microprocessor, computer or the like. In this case, since it is not necessary to access a particular row, the encoding and alignment codes may be provided to ensure alignment at the first data row, such as indicated at 74 and at some other or periodic point or points, such as illustrated at 76. The use of the encoding and alignment marks will be best understood from the following detailed description of reading a scanner microfiche card.B. Reading Scanner Microfiche When certain information is selected for retrieval, the logic circuits of the scanner apparatus cause the sensor to move across the microfiche card toward the selected data and the logic circuit remember the position of the sensor at all times. The sensor first moves to the transverse column of frames within which the selected line of data is to be found. After locating the proper column of frames, the sensor advances until it detects the incremental code within that frame defines the address of the selected data. The sensor then moves ahead until it detects the centering mark for that selected incremental code.The centering mark ensures that at least the top of the sensor will be in alignment with the codes at the selected address. The logic circuits now compare bits 5 8 of the incremental code in the top longitudinal rows to bits 77 80 in the bottom longitudinal rows. If these bits do not correspond, bit for bit, the sensor is rotated in the proper direction, as determined by the logic circuits that compare the bits, to achieve alignment with the entire selected transverse data row 58. then the bits 5 8 correspond, bit for bit, with the bits 77 80, the sensor has achieved alignment with the selected transverse data row. As previously mentioned, the sensor is pivotally mounted however, in the alternative the transport may be pivotally mounted. The sensor is now operated to scan the data transversely of the row aligned therewith and makes use of the information codes that are between the start of data code and the end of data code. Any portion of the data between the start of data code and the end of data code may be used, or ignored, as controlled by the logic circuits. Referring now to FIG. 7, a more detailed discussion of access and alignment will be given for the scanner microfiche card. In FIG. 7 a keyboard 82 is provided forthe user to enter a desired address and an activating order. The keyboard may be a scanned type arrangement as is common in the art, or may be constructed using, for example, a MOSTEK MK 50311 N four function calculator circuit, the necessary additional switches PRICE, etc.l and a keyboard integrated circuit such as the S 9262 touch control interface manufactured by American Microsystems, Inc. The address is fed to and held in an entry register 84 and the activating order is fed to a lock 86 for sequence control.The clock 86 is also connected to other elements than illustrated in the drawing, which connections have been omitted for the purpose of clarity, the same being understood to those skilled in the art. After an address has been entered and an activating order given, a column counter 104 and a comparator register 88 determine which direction to drive the sensor to the selected column. After the sensor has found the selected column, the sensor steps ahead until the incremental code it reads compares bit for bit with the selected address, then the sensor is stepped ahead in smaller increments until the centering mark of the desired column is detected. The sensor then stops. It should be noted that the sensor 98 may count any one of the bars, such as the bar 72 to determine the proper frame, and the remainder of the marks of the code, for example, the longitudinal bars in rows 1 8 may be counted to determine the proper transverse row 58. The incremental code and the sensor alignment code, both being identical, are compared in the comparator register 88 and the sensor 98 is pivotally adjusted, as indicated at 100, so that the codes compare bit for bit. The entire vertical line of data, that is a data row 58, is now scanned and abstracted or used by the data processing circuits 96 for output to circuits which are to utilize the digital information. The column counter 104 keeps track of the column in which the sensor is positioned. The increment counter selects the address out of the scanned data, and the sensor alignment register selects sensor alignment codes from the scanned data to control positioning of the sensor. The sensor position drive and the sensor alignment drive area elements which are well known in the art. The entire circuit outlined in the broken line may be configured from a microprocessor of the type Motorola MC 6800 P or the Intel 8080 series, while the sensor register 102 may be formed of any standard well known register and the sensor 98 may be constructed from a well known device, such as the Fairchild CCD 17280. As already mentioned, the keyboard 82 and the entry register 84 are also devices which are well known to those skilled in the art. It should be noted that the comparator reg ister includes a portion identified ROM or RAM, for a read only memory ROM or a random access memory RAM . This is because the microprocessor may include a ROM in which the program is wired in. With the aforementioned Motorola device, however, we selected a RAM and it is necessary to feed in a program when the power to the unit is turned on. As will be evident from the discussion below with respect to the viewer microfiche and the program for reading the viewer microfiche, programming of a RAM in a microprocessor or a wired in program for a ROM is well within the skill of those versed in this art. III. VIEWER MICROFICHE CARD The viewer microfiche card is generally illustrated at 110 in FIG. 8 as comprising a plurality of frames 112 formed in a matrix and having spaces between the frames which are scanned by a sensor 114 which is positioned, for example at 450 with respect to the directions of movement of the microfiche card.In the spaces between the frames 112 a plurality of tracking lines 116, 118, 120 are provided in the longitudinal direction of the card and a plurality of track ing lines 122, 124 and 126 are provided in the transverse direction of the microfiche card. The tracking and code system described herein is one selected for certain of our test purposes, and represents only one of many configurations this scheme can take while still providing the necessary tracking and coding functions. As illustrated in FIG. 8, the tracking lines 116 126 are not in the viewing areas and are placed on the microfiche card in precise positions relative to the graphic information within the viewing areas 112. When this microfiche card 110 is employed in a viewer, the lines are projected on the sensor 114 out of the viewing area. The sensor 114 may be constructed of approximately 40 individual photocells and is used to detect the lines and other data. The sensor 114, as mentioned above, is positioned at 450 to the tracking lines to allow a single sensor to detect both vertical and horizontal tracking lines, although two sensors at right angles to the tracking lines could be utilized to perform as well. The tracking lines may be either clear lines with a black background, or vice versa. We have planned to use clear lines with a black background however, the system will work either way.A. Tracking Referring to FIG. 9, when the sensor is positioned with respect to the tracking lines 116, 118, 120, as illustrated at 114, all three tracks are sensed, and the microfiche card is in the correct vertical tracking position for accessing or viewing. If the sensor is in the position illustrated at 114 , however, the pattern of photocells sensing the tracks allows the logic circuits to determine the direction the microfiche must be moved to bring the sensor back to the relative position of that illustrated at 114. In the alternative, if the sensor is in the position illustrated at 114 , the pattern of sensing photocells will allow the logic circuits to determine that the microfiche card must be moved vertically in a direction opposite to that to correct for the position 114 . With the 450 orientation of the sensor 114, or two sensors oriented at 900, the tracking scheme permits the vertical tracking lines 122, 124 and 126 to be followed in the same manner. The tracking technique amounts to a dynamic, or feed back, registration system. The sensor 114 and tracking line position can also be used to provide proportional control. That is, any misalignment, greater than a single cell of the sensor, with respect to the tracking lines, will produce an error signal that can be used to correct the microfiche card position. B. Stop at Frame Center Referring to FIG. 10, the tracking lines described above allow for moving the microfiche card in a precise matrix or grid pattern in order to automatically access single or partial frames from a microfiche card. In order to stop at the proper location to allow a frame to be viewed, a frame center code, for example the code marks 124, i26 and 128 is placed between two of the tracking lipes, for example the tracking lines 118 and 120, while a frame center bar is placed between both the top and middle, and the middle and bottom tracking lines, that is between the tracking lines 116 and 118, and between the tracking lines 118 and 120, here illustrated in the form of two marks 130 and 132. In FIG. 10 the reference 114 diagrammatically illustrates the center line of the sensor, while the line 122 diagrammatically illustrates the center line of the frame. With this coding, there are two channels, Channel A and Channel B provided in which the frame center code is located inChannel B and the frame center bar is located in ChannelsA and B.The frame center code corresponds to the address of the frame in the horizontal direction. The microfiche card is moved in a direction such that the relative motion of the sensor is left totright in FIG. 10. As the sensor 114 passes over the frame center code marks 124, 126, 128, the sensor detects the three bits of the frame center code, which the logic circuits interpret to mean that the microfiche is to stop when the sensor detects the bit between the upper tracking line 116 and the middle tracking 118, that is inChannel A and the bit between the middle tracking line 118 and the bottom tracking line 120, which is in Channel B. C. Stop at Frame Corner Referring to FIG. 11, a corner of a frame may be detected in a manner similar to that discussed above with respect to FIG. 9. The tracking lines 116, 118, 120 and the tracking lines 122, 124, 126 generally come together at the corner of each frame. Therefore, in the longitudinal direction there is still a Channel A and a Channel B, while in the transverse direction there is a Channel AV and a Channel BV. A plurality of frame corner code markings 136, 138 are provided in the Channel B and a plurality of frame corner code markings 140, 142 are provided in the Channel BV, while a frame corner bar is provided inChannel A and Channel B, as illustrated at 144, 146. InFIG. 11, the sensor, again symbolically illustrated at 114, detects the two frame corner codes 136, 138 as it passes thereover.The logic circuits then cause the transport to stop the motion when the frame corner bar 144, 146 is detected. If downward vertical transverse motion is required after reaching a frame corner bar, the sensor 114 would be inhibited for a specific time and move downward.The time of inhibition is selected such that at the rate of motion utilized, the sensor would stand across all three vertical tracking lines before becoming active again. After becoming active, the sensor will track the vertical lines to its next point of action. The logic program may ignore frame center codes and or frame corner codes and or any other codes that it may detect during travel along the tracking lines, until a selected point is reached. The distance between the points is measured, for example, by the rate of transport and by the time of transport. D. Auxiliary Codes Referring to FIG. 12, codes other than frame center codes, frame corner codes and frame corner and center bars may be placed within any of the tracking lines in ChannelA and or Channel B. For example, in FIG. 12, Channel A includes a code which is provided by the marks 148, 150, 152, 154 and 156, while in Channel B a code is provided with the marks 158, 160, 162, 164 and 166. These codes may be used for an infinite number of purposes, such as frame numbering frame content designation, branch designation, sound track selection when used with a complementary audio component , access address to a scanner, and so on. As illustrated in FIG. 12, the codes may be placed in either one or both of the channels. For extreme reliability requirements, redundant codes may be utilized, as illustrated in FIG. 12. It will be noted that in Channel A there is a code provided by the markings 168 , 170 , 172 and 174 which is redundant with the code provided by the markings 168, 170, 172 and 174 in Channel B. For added reliability, a parity scheme will be used in addition to redundancy. Although it has not been mentioned above, it should be readily apparent that all codes, including frame center codes and frame corner codes may take on an infinite variety of forms.E. Reading Viewer Microfiche Card Referring to FIG. 14, a system and a method for positioning a viewer microfiche card for reading is illustrated in which the apparatus comprises a keyboard 176 and an entry register 180 which are the same as similar elements illustrated in FIG. 7. The user keys in a desired address and an activation order, the address being deposited in the entry register 180 and the activation order being forwarded to the block 178 for sequence control. Again, the clock is illustrated as being connected only to certain components, while clock connections to other components have been omitted for purpose of simplicity. After activating, the row register 194, via the comparator register 182, determines the vertical and horizontal direction in which the microfiche must be moved in order to bring the selected frame into the viewing position. The microfiche moves either vertically or horizontally, never diagonally in this system. The tracking comparator 192 is fed by the sensor 188 by way of the sensor register 190 and compares the track position with a standard track position and controls the horizontal and vertical microfiche drives 186 and 184, respectively, to maintain tracking as discussed above so that the sensor extends over all three tracking lines in the particular direction which the microfiche is being driven. The sensor register provides an output 198 as the data output, which output may have interposed therein an auxiliary code register 200 which reads the auxiliary codes, such as are illustrated in FIGS. 11 and or 12. The sensor 188 may be a 40 or 60 element sensor of the type discussed above. The vertical and horizontal drives 184 and 186, as well as the keyboard 176 and 180 are well known to those skilled intfie art, while the elements bounded by the broken line may be a conventional microprocessor, such as the Intel 8080A or the Motorola MC6800P. As with the apparatus ofFIG. 7, the comparator register 182 includes a ROM or a RAM section for storing the program. In a particular device constructed and utilized we have employed the Motorola MC6800P microprocessor with a RAM section so that it was necessary to feed in the program each time the system was energized.F. Exemplary Program The following is an exemplary program for accurate lyspositioning a viewer microfiche, or more importantly a desired portion of a viewer microfiche, with respect to a viewer. It should be understood by those versed in this art that a similar program, although a simpler program, may be employed in connection with the apparatus of FIG. 7 for accurate alignment of a data row 58 FIGS.4 6 in that the scanner microfiche is generally only operated by movement of the sensor or transport in a single direction, in addition to correction of skew by the pivoting of the sensor or the transport, and in connection with the additional apparatus of FIG. 14 which relates to reading with the scanner. SYSTEM MONITOR 21D BD MONITR JSR Set up peripherals for first OO move 00 Move to upper left corner 220 86 HOME LDAA 3C Select vertimoror up Hortz. motor already selected left 222 B7 STAA PIACRB 80 07 225 86 LDAA SFF Both motors full speed ahead FF 227 87 STAA PLAORB 80 06 22A 20 GO BRA GO Wait here while user resets FE and engages micro switches at end of move 22C BD JSR INIT Reinitiate PLA s after manual 00 reset 00 22F 86 STRIPSN LDAA 04 Routine to move to frame Ol 02 start position at left end of horizontal guidebar 231 BD JSR BAKHOM 05 234 20 BRA INITFEAME Initiate frame pointer to 01 37 ROUTINE TO SCAN DATA OF ARRAY FOR POSITION AND SIZE OF ALL VALID FEATURES 246 BD SCAN JSR SRCH Get first feature 00 IE 249 CE LDX 00 Initialize feature array index 00 00 24C DF STX CODEPTR Save it F3 24E 96 NEXFEAT LDAA LITCNT Feature there F2 250 2F BEQ END No end of scan 17 252 D6 LDAB CODEPTR 1 Check for more than features, F4 to protect program from being written over 254 Cl CMPB 08 08 256 2E BGT END If more than five, out of 11 focus Go to re read program 258 A7 STAA CODETABL l.X Yes Store its size in array, F7 then store Its position 25A 96 LDAA FEATSTRT Fl 25C A7 STAA CODETABt,X F6 25E 08 INX Update pointer for next feature 25F 08 INX 260 DF STX CODEPTR Save it again F3 262 BD JSR XTRACT Extract next feature ol 00 265 DE LDX CODEPTR Retrieve pointer F3 267 20 BRA NEXFEAT Go again E5 269 39 END RTS 26A 00 00 00 26D 86 INITFRAME LDAA 01 ol 26F 97 STAA PRESFRAME Present frame 01 E2User sets breakpoint to key in desired next frame 271 BD ROUTE JSR NINES Routine to calc, route to next 02 frame first convert next CS frame input to row and column format 274 96 LDAA FRAME To complete final hor, motion El use col. number of next frame lower half byte to index a table indicating closest vert.276 84 ANDA OF bar to final row number OF 278 B7 STAA HERE 02 7F 27B CE LDX ROUTEABL x contains base address 02 of table BB 27E E6 LDAB O,X Load address of vertical 00 HERE bar into ACCB 280 D7 STAB HORZ Final hor. motion completed A9 as NEXFRAME Vertical Hor Bar Address t ACCA ACCB 282 90 SUBA HORZ A9 284 97. STAA HORZ Result is neg. for motion A9 to left, pos. for right 286 96 LDAA PRESFRAME Calc, first hor. motion E2 present frame vert. bar 288 84 ANDA OF OF 28A 97 STAA HOR1 As Vert. bar PRESFRAME A7 address bor. ACCB ACCA 28C DO SUBB HORI A7 290 OO 00 00 00 294 96 LDAA PRESFRAME Next, fetch row number of E2 present frame into lower half byte of ACCA with zeros in upper half byte 296 48 ASLA 297 48 ROLA 298 49 ROLA 299 49 ROLA 29A 49 ROLA 29B D6 LDAB NEXFRAME And same for row number El of next frame in ACCB 29D 58 ASLB 29E 59 ROLB 29F 59 ROLB 2AO59 ROLB 2Al 59 ROLB 2A2 84 ANDA OF Mask out upper half bytes OF 2A4C4 ANDB OF OF 2A6 D7 STAB VERT Vert. motion computed as A8 PRESFRAME NEXFRAME Vert. Vert. t ACCA ACCB 2A8 90 SUBA VERT A8 2AA 97 STAA VERT POS. UP NEW. DOWN A8 2AC 26 BNE DONE Any vertical motion o9 required 2AE96 NOVERT LDAA HORI No Combine HORI, HORZ A7 into single horizontal motion and store in HORI 2BO9B ADDA HORZ A9 2B2 97 STAA HOR1 A7 2B4 7F CLR HORZ No need for HORZ 00 A9 2B7 7E DONE JMP NEXMOVE ready to start move to o3 next frame 08 2B8 ROUTETABLES Gives frame address of vertical rote to be taken for destination frame whose column number Is 2BCOL 02 2 03 3 04 4 05 5 06 6 07 7 08 8 204 09 9 Routine to covert between decimal and row column format for frame numbers 2C5 96 NINES LDAA NEXFRAME ACCA gets converted El 2C7 81 CMPA 19 Is ACCA in row 1 or row 2 19 2C9 2D BLT 1 or 2 Yes Branch around 03 2CB 7E JMP PATCH 6 No Continue checking Ol El 2CE81 1 or 2 CMPA 10 No is ACCA in row I 10 2DO2C BGE. 3 No Branch around 03 2D2 7E JMP LAST Yes No conversion required 05 E7 2D5C6 . 3 LDAB 01 ACCB Conversion amount 01 1 for row 2 2D7 7D DECIDE TST CONYRT Which direction is 00 conversion destred AS 2DA7E JMP PATCH 9 Go find out 05 D3 01E1 81 PATCH 6 CMPA num 30 Is ACCA in bottom row 30 1E3 2E BGT BOTTOM Yes Branch around 05 1E5 C6 IDAB 02 Convert by adding 2 02 for row 3 1E7 7E JMP DECIDE Go decide on conversion 02 desired D7 lEA C6 BOTTOM LDAB 30 For bottom row, subtact DO 30 to convert IEC 7E JMP DECIDE Go do It 02 D7 5D3 27 PATCH 9 CONVERT If decimal to row col. 06 desired, do addition 5D5 50 NEGB If row col. dec. desired, do subtraction 5D6 81 CMPA 19 If, row 1, col. 9, then special 19 case only subtract 1 instead of 2 5D8 26 BNE CONVERT 01SDA 4C INCA Add I to compensate 5DB IB CONVERT ABA Preform conversion here add ACCB to ACCA 5DC 7E JMP PATCH 10 Check for special decimal o3 conversions of 19 21 or 21 19 5DF 7D STORE TST CONVERT Should result be stored in 00 NEXFRAME convrt 0 AS 5E2 26 BNE LAST No Branch around o3 5E4 97 STAA FRAME Yes Store it El 5E6 00 5E7 7F LAST CLR CONVRT Auto clear flag conversion 00 is decimal row col. by AS default SEA 39 RTS All done 3A0 C6 PATCH10 LDAB 06 Load decimal adjust lerm 06 3A2 81 CMPA lB Does conversion result equal IB .IB 19 2 3A4 27 BEQ ADD Yes ADD decimal term, OS next 3A6 50 NEGB No Negate decimal term for next test 3A7 81 CMPA 1F Does conversion result lF IF 21 2 3A9 26 BNE BACK No don t adjust 01 3AB IB ADD ABA Yes add decimal term 3AC 7E BACK JMP STORE Now go decide whether to 05 store conversion result Subroutine to search and lock onto a hor. guidebar 2EO 96 FINDBAR LDAA MINBAR DB 2E2 97 STAA BARTIME Load converter with min. BO time to establish a valid bar 2E4 D6 REFIND LDAB OUTVIEW Which direction is search AC desired outview O for up, I for down 2E6 27 BEQ FARLEFT 04 2E8 86 LDAA 34 Down Select vertical DLA 34 down 2EA 20 BRA . 2 02 2EC 86 LDAA 30 Select med. vertical 3C search speed 2FO B7 STA PIACRB 80 07 2F3 F7 STAB PIAORB Start motor 80 06 2F6 80 LOOK JSR SRCH Scan present input data 00 for guidebar 1E 2F9 96 LDAA LITCNT If found, LITCNT will F2 be O 2FB 27 BEQ FINDBAR If not, reset bartime E3 and try again 2FD 7A DEC BARTIME When found, advance timer 300 96 LDAA BARTIME Min.Time expired BO 302 26 BNE LOOK No keep timing F2 304 7F CLR PIAORB Yes bar found stop 80 motor O6 30F 39 RTS Return to caller PERFORMS NEXT HOR. MOVE 320 96 HORIZONTAL LDAA HOR I What kind of move is required A7 322 27 BEQ HALT None up date frame pointers 4B and to back for user input 324 2B BMI LEFTMOVE Left branch here OA 326 86 LDAA 3C Right Select direction right DETERMINES NEXT MOVE 308 BD NEXMOVE JSR HORIZONTAL Do first hor. move 03 20 30B 96 LDAA VERT Any vert. motion required A8 30D 27 BEQ DEST No at destination, update OA frame pointer 30F BD JSR VERT Yes do vert. move 03 BO 312 96 LDAA HORZ Prepare for further hor. A9 move If necessary 314 97 STAA HORI A7 316 BD JSR HORIZONTAL Then do it 03 20 319 96 DEST LDAA FRAME El 31B 97 STAA PRESFRAME New source in old destination E2 31D 7E JMP CODES Go read codes at destination 05 23 328 7C INC HORI Add in a dummy move so 00 initially finding guidebar is A7 not counted as a frame when moving right. 32B 97 STAA HORDIR Store direction data DA 32D 7E JMP IGNR Jump away from codes to 01 find guidebar BD 330 86 LEFTMOVE LDAA S34 Store DIREC ON LEFT 34 No dummy move required since initially guidebar is advancing to next frame when moving left 332 97 STAA HORDIR Store direction DA 334 20 BRA PREPULS Determine whether long or 20 short pulse is necessary, then do it 336 86 IGNORE LDAA num FF Routine to pulse through FF intermediate codes 338 97 STAA PULSTIM Use mlx. pulse width F5 33A 96 LDAA HORDIR Select proper direction DA 33C C6 LDAB 08 Select med. hor. speed 08 33E BD JSR PULSE Do the pulse Ol FO 341 39 RTS Back to caller 0342 BD REGET JSR REGISTER Now refind guidebar for next 03 frame 344 70 347 96 LDAA HORI Update frame counter A7 349 2B BMI INCR In which direction 03 34B 4A DECR DECA Down if positive 34C 20 BRA . 01 34E 4C INCR INCA Up if negative 34F 97 STAA HORI Store it A7 351 27 BEQ STOP All done if count is zero 15 353 BD JSR CENTER Now guide along bar to move 00 along next frame 53 368 86 STOP LDAA 34 Select direction left 34 36A 97 STAA HORDIR DA 36C BD JSR CENTER Guide left along bar to have 00 position at left edge 53 36F 39 HALT RTS Return to monitor for next move 356 96 PREPULS LDAA NEXFRAME Stan calc. trigger El Frame for long code ignore pulse 358 D6 LDAB HORDIR Which direction are we going DA 35A Cl CMPB 34 If left, HORDIR 34 34 35C 27 BEQ 1 If left, trigger frame 01 present frame Do not increment to next frame 35E 4C INCA If right, trigger frame next frame 35F 90 . l SUBA HORI calc. present horizontal A7 position to check if at trigger frame NEXFRAME HORI 361 7E JMP PATCH 3 Now finish calc. check Ol for doing the long pulse, and CO pulse around the codes THIS PATCH DETERMINES WHETHER FEHE IS GOING TO JUMP OVER TO RIGHTMOST COLUMN COL.9 AND IF NOT GOES AHEAD AND DOES A LONG PULSE TO GET OVER CODES IF COL. 9, LONG PULSE WOULD RUN INTO MECHANICAL STOPICO 00 PATCH 3 Frame number after this Jump 00 Is already in ACCA 00 OO 00 ICS 84 AND OF Select column from OF frame number 1C7 81 CMPA 09 Is it right most column 09 1C9 27 BEQ IGNR If so, do a short jump 10 only ICB 00 00 00 00 ICF 86 LDAA 01 Initialize a counter to 01 do 1 pulse 1D1 97 D4 STAA PULSNMR 1D3 BD MORE JSR IGNORE Do the pulse 03 36 1D6 7A DEC PULSNMR Count it off 00 D4ID9 26 BNE MORE Not done then pulse some more F8 1DB BD IGNR JSR IGNORE Get around remainIng codes 03 36 IDE 7E JMP REGET Go find the 03 bar again 42 ROUTINE TO REGISTER CENTER BAR AT START OF NEXT FRAME 370 7F REGISTER CLR PULSTIM Start with min. vert. 00 sweep from present FS position 373 96 SWEEP LDAA PULSTIM Initiates a new sweep F5 375 8B ADDA S08 By incrementing the sweep F5 timer 377 97 STAA PULSTIM F5 379 B6 LDAA PIACRB 80 07 37G 81 CMPA 34 34 37E 27 BEQ. 4 04 Switch vertical directions 380 86 LDAA 34 34 382 20 BRA . 2 02 384 86 . 4 LDAA 3C i 3C 386 97 . 2 STAA SAVZ Save direction for additional EB pulse when bar found 388 C6 LDAB 30 Select med. slow motor speed 30 for narrow sweep range 38A 7C INC SRCHFLAG Flag to search for data 00 during pulse AG 38DBD JSR PULSE Go do it 01 FO 390 96 LDAA LITCNT Result of pulse FZ 392 27 BEQ SWEEP No data yet Go again DF Additional pulse after registering bar, to make sure bar is in view and prevent misleading end of condition by center 394 86 LDAA 01 01 396 97 STAA PULSTIM Small size pulse F5 398 96 LDAA SAVZ Load same motor direction FB as before 39A C6 LDAB 20 Slow motor speed 20 39C BD JSR PULSE Do the pulse ol FO 39F 39 RTS End of register routine Performs next vert. move 3BO 96 VERTICAL LDAA VERT What direction required AB 3B2 2B BMI DOWNMOVE Choose proper vert. direction 0B for FINDBAR ROUTINE 3B4 OF CLRA 3B5 20 BRA STORE 02 3B7 86 DOWNMOVE LDAA 01 01 3B9 20 STORE BRA PATCH 9 Go store it ID 3BB BD FIND JSR FINDBAR Go across frame vert. to 02 next guidebar ED 3BE 86 LDAA 34 Now guide along bar left 34 to home position 300 97 STAA HORDIR DA 3C2 BD JSR CENTER 00 53 3C5 96 LDAA VERT Update frame counter A8 3C7 2B BMI INCR In which direction 03 3C9 4A DECR DECA Down if positive XA 20 BRA . 1 01 3CC4C INCR INCA Up if negative 3CD97 STAA VERT Store it A8 3CF26 BNE VERT Done If not, do another frame DF 3D1 39 RTS Otherwise back to monitor for next 3D8 97 PATCH9 STAA OUTVIEW Store vert, direction flag AC for findbar 3DA 86 lDAA FF Now large hor. and vert. pulses FF to get away from present guidebar and angle bars 3DC97 STAA PULSTIM Max. pulse width F5 3DE 86 LDAA 3C HORDIR right 3C 3EOC6 LDAB 07 HOR. SPEED medium 07 3E2 BD JSR PULSE Do horizontal pulse 01 FO 3E5 96 LDAA OUTVIEW Which direction for large AC vertical pulse 3E7 27 BEQ UP 04 3E9 86 DOWN LDAA num 34 DOWN if outview l 34 3EB 20 BRA . 2 02 3ED 86 UP LDAA 3C Up If outview l 3C 3EFC6 . 2 LDAB 70 Select med. vert, speed 70 3F1 BD JSR PULSE Do the vertical pulse 01 F0 3F4 20 BRA FIND Ready to find next guidebar C5 Routine to bring 2 codes into view, read them and output to RESULT 47C 97 REAM STAA LOWLIM EMI53.1 A2 Store limit from patch 7 for verifying codes 47E D7 STAB UPLIM A3 480 7F READ 2 4 CLR RESULT 00 Clear previously read codes D9 483 7E CLR CODECNT Clear count for number of 00 codes to read DF 486 86 NEXT LDAA FF Prepare to use pulse routine FF with search for light feature 488 97 STAA PULSTIM Make search for time big F5 48A 86 LDAA 34 Select direction left 34 48C C6 LDAB 02 Select slow hor. speed D2 48E 7C INC SRCHFLG Enable data search 00 AG 491 7E JMP PATCH12 Search fpr next code 02 36 494 00 When code is in view, 00 position and read it, Back code into RESULT 496 96 BACK4 LDAA CODECNT DF 498 4C 499 97 STAA CODECNT DF 49B 81 CMPA 02 All codes read 02 49C 26 BNE NEXT No Get and re read answer E8 49E 39 RTS Yes Back to monitor 49F C6 SWAP LDAB Q4 Routine called by decode to 04 swap digits of result, since last digit was read first need to rotate 4 bits 4A1 96 LOOP LDAA RESULT D9 4A3 2B BME . 3 03 4A5 06 CLC Determine carry for next rotate 4A6 20 BRA . l 01 Swap by rotating 4 bits 4A8 OD . 3 SEC 4A9 79 1 ROL RESULT 00 D9 4AC 5A DEC B All done 4AD26 BNE LOOP No rotate again F2 4AF 00 Yes Back to PATCH 4 to verify 2nd code 4BO BD PATCH4 JSR VERIFY Verify code just read, output 05 is re read 1 for good read, 0 for bad 4B3 D6 LDAB REREAD Good read Al 4B5 27 BEQ GOOD Yes Return from decode 03 routine.4B7 00 No Go ahead anyway 00 Do not re read code 00 manually or automatically 4BA 39 GOOD RTS Return to READ 2 4BB BD PATCH4B JSR DECODE When code is in view, position 03 and read it, pack code FC into result 4BE 86 LDAA FF Set up another FF long pulse enable, to get off code 4C097 STAA PULSTIM put the pulse FS length away 4C2 86 LDAA 34 We still want 34 it to go left 4C4 C6 LDAB 02 And, we want it 02 to go slow 4C6 7A DEC SRCHFLG Pulse until we get off code 00 Pulse until dark A6 4C9 BD JSR PULSE This is what actually 01 Makes it go FO 4CC 7E JMP BACK4 Go back to what was before 04 it was not 95 236 BD PATCH12 JSR PULSE Search for code 01 FO 239 BD JSR SRCH At end of search, has 00 code been found 1E 23C 96 LDAA LITCNT If so, data is non zero 12 23E 26 BME FCUND Yes Go on 03 240 7E JMP NEXT No Do another search 4 pulse 86 243 7E FOUND Go to decode here 04 BB Routine executed upon reaching home on destination frame. Reads all codes at destination, chooses next frame address from array based on user key input. Finally, return to home position on the frame and proceeds to user next frame for movement based on key input on 64 or 65.523 96 CODES LDAA PRESFRAME Where are we now E2 525 81 CMPA 34 If frame 64 or 65 row 3, 34 4 or 5 , must nosread string of codes to be accessed by user keys.527 27 BEQ BLTCODES 3A If normal frame, must only read single code pair to 529 81 CMPA 35 verify location at proper destination 35 52B 27 BEQ KEYCODES 36 52D 86 NORMAL LDAA num 3F First store software interrupt 3F code to enable breakpoint for next input automatically 52F B7 STAA ROUTE 02 71 532 86 LDAA 01 Flag for PATCH 7 that 01 frame Is not 64 or 65 534 97 STAA NORM A4 536 BD JSR PATCH 7 Do conversion and put 05 result in limits to verify 10 codes read.539 BD JSR READZ Now read and verify 04 7C 53C B6 SAME LDAA 01 Initialize number of code 01 pairs read to 1 for getting back home 53E 97 STAA NUMBER DC 540 BD JSR BAKHOM Get back to home position 05 on frame 46 543 7E JMP ROUTE Ready to go with user 02 input 71 546 97 BAKHOM STAA PUL5NMR D4 548 86 LDAA 80 Use med. pulse width 80 54A 97 STAA PULSTIM F5 54C 86 LDAA 3C Pulse direction right 3C 54E C6 LDAB 08 Pulse speed fast 08 550 BD JSR PULSE Pulse over the codes Dl FO 553 7A. DEC PULSNMR 00 D4 556 26 BNE BAKHOM FO 558 BD JSR REGISTER Done jumping over codes, 03 then find the guidebar 70 555 BD JSR CENTER Back to left of bar for 00 home position 53 55E 39 RTS Ready to go on with user input, or automatic route to frame commanded by user key 55F 00 00 00 562 00 563 86 KEYCODES LDAA num BD Store original instruction into first instruction of next BD cycle, to enable automatic routine to frame selected with user key 565 B7 STAA ROUTE 02 71 568 86 LDAA 07 Number of code pairs to be 07 read 7 56A 47 STAA NUMBER DC 56C 97 STAA NUMCNT i Init. counter to keep track DE of codes 56E 7F CLR NORM Indicate special frame 64 or 00 65 for PATCH 7 A4 571 8D PAIR BSR PATCH 7 Calc. limits for valid code 9D read 573 BD JSR REAM Read next pair of codes 04 7C 576 DE. LDX NUMCNT Load pointer to array DD for storing the result 578 96 LDAA RESULT Fetch result of code D9 57A A7 STAA KEYTABL l.X Now store in table for access E2 by key input later 57C 7A DEC NUMCNTZ Count off the codes just read DO DE 57F 26 BNE PAIR Not done yet Then read FO another pair of codes 581 86 SELECT LDAA CO Prepare to light up next CO frame LED 58B 20 BRA READKY Then go wait for user to select IB next frame with a key Routine to convert present frame number into decimal format for comparison with result of reading codes, and set upper and lower limits to verify code reading 510 7C PATCH 7 INC CONVERT Enable flag for conversion 00 in this direction AS 513 BD JSR NINES Do conversion on 02 NEXFRAME PRESFRAME C5 Result of conversion is in ACCA 516 D6 LDAB NORM Is frame normal not 64 or 65 A4 518 27 BEQ SPECIAL No store special limits 03 for codes on frames 64, 65 51A 16 TAB Yes Both limits are PRESFRAME SIB 20 BRA SETLIM Limits are in ACCA, ACCB 04 51D C6 SPECIAL LDAA 79 Upper limits for frames 64, 65 79 is high digit 7, low digit 9 51F 86 LDAA 60 Lower limit is high digit 60 6, low digtt 0 521 39 SETLIM RTS Return then read 2 intermediately stored ACCA and ACCB into lints SWITCH REG.READ PROGRAM WAITS FOR SWITCH TO BE PRESSED, LEADS THE REGISTER, WAITS FOR SWITCH RELEASE AND SELECTS NEXT FRAME 585 87 SWITCH STAA LEDREG Light up appropriate LED s 06 00 588 B6 READI LDAA SWREG Read switch register 07 00 58B 81 CMPA 80 Will have top bit set 80 58D 27 BEQ READI Wait for switch to be pressed F9 58F 80 SUBA 80 Erase top bit, 80 591 97 STAA KEYREG And save result D8 593 B6 READ2 LDAA SWREG Wait for switch release 07 DO 596 81 CMPA 80 Topbit will again be set 80 598 26 BNE READZ All other bits should be reset F9 59A 86 LDAA 40 Now clear LED s 40 59C 7E JMP PATCH 11 Go finish the routine 01 7A 17A B7 PATCHll STAA LEDREG Clear LED s 06 00 17D 96 LDAA PREV In case of previous bad read, AE recall previous result before re reading In case of next frame, this doesn t matter 17F 97 STAA RESULT D9 181 39 RTS Back to callerSAD BD READKY JSR SWITCH Read user selection key 05 85 5A3 CE LDX 0006 Yes prepare to access table DO based on switch read 06 SA6 86 LDAA num 40 Switch ft6 is bit 6 set in 40 SWREG 5A8 91 BACK CMPA KEYREG Was this switch pressed D8 SAA 27 BEQ MATCH Yes Go access table 07 SAC 09 DEX No Advance table pointer SAD 44 LSRA Advance to next down the lineSAE 26 BNE BACK Last switch checked No go F8 check anotherSBO 7E ERRI JMP SELECT Yes switch data invalid 05 Interrupt for user to try again 81SB3 A6 MATCH LDAA KEYTABL,X Fetch code data from table, E3 as selected by switch 5B5 97 STAA NEXFRAME Code data is next frame El addressSB7 86 LDAA O4 Go back to home position before 4 moving to next frame 5B9 BD JSR BAKHOM 05 46 5BC 7E JMP ROUTE Ready to do it over again 02 71 GENERAL PURPOSE PATTERN RECOGNITION SUBROUTINE Extracts Features According To The Following Definitions start of feature is two consecutive light half bytes INPTlD 1 A INPTID D DON T CARE Counts as light inside feature, dark if outside End of feature is last light half byte preceeding first dark half byte Calls XAMIN to determine RTI ID 67.8 INPIID, scans to end of feature or end of array, whichever first output is feature Start. Length in half bytes If no feature is found, FEATSTRT D 100 4F XTRACT CLRA Clear outputs as signal in case no signal is found 101 97 STAA LITCNT F2 103 97 STAA FEATSTRT Fl 105 00 00 00 00 109 BD FSTIME JSR XAMIN Examine next half byte 01 46 10C 86 LDAA lE All data examined 1E 10E 91 CMPA BYTPTR 1 D7 110 26 BNE CHKOUT No Go look for start of 01 feature 112 39 RTS Yes Go back to caller 113 96 CHKOUT LDAA INITID What did last half byte contain AA 115 2E BGT FIRST 1 75 light possible feature OB 117 7F CLR LITCNT 75 light cancel feature 00 F2 ILS 20 BRA FSTIME keep looking ED 11C 00 DO 00 00 00 00 122 7C FIRST INC LITCNT First light data found add to 00 length of feature F2 125 B6 LDAA 02 Two consecutive light half bytes 02 found yet 127 9l CMPA LITCNT F2 129 26 BNE FSTIME No look for second DE 12B 96 LDAA BYTPTRti Yes Calculate start of feature D7 12D 48 ASLA By multiplying bytes 12F 9B ADDA HLFPTR Add half byte count 0 or 1 AB 130 80 SUBA 02 4subtract two half bytes, Byte 02 count always looks ahead one byte 132 97 STAA FEATSTRT Store start of feature Fl 134 BD 2NDTIME JSR XAMIN Look at next half byte 01 46 137 96 LDAA INPTID Result AA 139 2A BPL SECONDl 50 light 0 or 1 INPTID 01 add to feature 13B 39 RTS 50 light end of feature 13C 7C SECNDl INC LITCNT Add to feature 00 F2 13F 86 CHECKIN LDAA 20 End of data 20 141 91 CMPA BYTPTR 1 D7 143 26 BNE 2NDTIME No Look at next half byte EF 145 3A RTS Yes end of feature EXAMINE SUBROUTINE HLFTR D or 1 HALF BYTE FROM BYTABL, OUTPUT IS INPTID 1 1 2 bits set, l for 1 2 bio set, 0 for 1 2 bits set 146 DE XAMINE LDX BYTPTR D6 148 A6 LDAA BYTABL I,X Fetch data poInted to by BYTPTR B2 14A D6 LDAB HLFPTR Which half byte is desired AB 14C 26 BNE RHLF If right low order ignore next 09 step 14E 7C INC HLFPTR If left high order point to right 00 for next time, AB 151. 44 LSRA Shift left data into right half byte with zeros in left half byte 152 44 LSRA 153 44 LSRA 154 44 LSRA 155 20 BRA IDENT Go on 08 157 84 RHLF ANDA 0F Mask out left byte OF 159 7A DEC HLFPTR Point to left half byte for next step AB 15C 7C INC BYTPTR 1 Point to next byte for next step 00 D7 15r B7 IDENT STAA HERE Data is used as index for table 01 66 162 CE LDX IDTABL Xcontains table base address 01 6A 165 E6 LDAB O,X 00 HERE 167 D7 STAB INPTID Store result of table look up AAEMI72.1 tb 169 SEP 39 SEP RTS SEP All SEP done tb 01 SEP 16A SEP FF SEP IDENT SEP identifies SEP SEP 0 SEP SEP 01 SEP 172 SEP FF SEP 8 tb SEP input SEP data SEP as SEP light tb SEP Ol , SEP dark SEP FF SEP or tb 01 SEP FF SEP SEP either SEP DD SEP SEP , SEP SEP 1 SEP 00 SEP 00 SEP 9 tb 01 SEP 16C SEP FF SEP 2 SEP 00 SEP 174 SEP 00 SEP A tb 00 SEP 00 SEP 3 SEP FF SEP , SEP SEP OL SEP SEP B tb EMI73.1 tb 01 SEP 16E SEP FF SEP 4 SEP 00 SEP 176 SEP 00 SEP C tb 00 SEP 00 SEP 5 SEP FF SEP 5 SEP 01 SEP D tb 00 SEP 170 SEP 00 SEP 6 SEP FF SEP 178 SEP 01 SEP E tb FF SEP Ol SEP SEP 7 SEP FF SEP 01 SEP F tb INTERFACE PROGRAM INIT SETS UP INPUT OUTPUT PIA S SRCHGENERAL PURPOSE SUBROUTINE TO FIND FIRST FEATURE STRINT TART INTERRUPT 00 OF INIT SEI Do not interrupt until this routine is completed 01 86 LDA 30 Select DDR for 8004 30 03 B7 STA PIAC RA 80 05 06 B7 STAA PIACRB And 8006, with falling edge 80 sensor interrupt trig. 07 09 7F CLR PIACRA Select all lines of 8004 as 80 inputs 04 Oc 86 LDAA num FF FF OE B7 STAA PIAORB Select all lines,of 8006 as 80 outputs 06 11 96 LDAA HORDIR Select proper horizontal DA direction 13 87 TAA PLACRA Store in 8005 80 05 16 86 LDAA 40 Blank LED s 40 18 B7 STAA LEDREG 06 00 1B OE CLI Now ready for interruptsIC 39 RTS Back to monitor 1E 7C SRCH INC PIACRB Enable sensor interrupt 80 07 21 3E WAI Wait for new data 22 7F CLR BYTPTR Initialize pointers to left edge DO ofview D7 25 7F CLR HLFPTR 00 AB 28 BD JSR XTRACT Extract leftmost feature 01 00 2B 39 RTS Back to caller 30 7 INTRUP DEC PLAC RB Disable further start interrupts 80 07 33 CE LDX S00 Reset input data counter 00 00 36 7C INC PIACRA Enable sensor data interrupt 80 05 39 86 WAT LDAA 80 Mask out all but interrupt bit 80 3B B4 ANDA PIACRA 80 05 3E 27 BEQ WAIT Wait for interrupt to occur F9 40 B6 LDAA PLAORA Then fetch input data 80 04 43 A7 STAA BYTABL,X Store in proper byte of table B1 45 08 INX Update data counter 46 8C CPX 20 All done 00 20 49 26 BNE WAIT No back for next byte EE 4B 7A DONE DEC PIACRA Yes disable sensor interrupt 80 until next interrupt routine 05 4E 96 LDAA BYTABL Shift leftmost data to right BI end since first data byte was missed 50 97 STAA BYTABL 21 Dl 52 3B RTI Return CENTER 53 BD CENTER JSR SRCH Ce tart and length of 00 guidebar 1E 56 D6 LDAB LITCNT Length 0 F2 se 26 BNE GUIDE No Guidebar was found o4 5A 7E JMP PATCH 2 Yes Check to make sure 0l blank data was really seen AOSD 00 5E 7F GUIDE CLR BLANKCNT Guidebar found reset 00 blank data flag AD 6l 96 LDAA FEATSRT Start of bar at left edge of view F1 63 27 BEQ LEFT Yes Go center the bar 25 65 98 ADDA LITCNT Not End of bar at right edge F2 of view 67 81 CMPA 40 40 69 27 BEQ RIGHT Yes Go center the bar 19 6B Cl CMPB S04 blo Does bar have minimum 04 valid width 6D 2C BGE SIDE 1 Yes Go see if it needs center 2A ing 6F 86 LDAA 3C No Enable PIA ev stop motor 3C 71 00 72 20 BRA HOR ONLY Go do it 0C 74 D6 SIDE tDAB FEATSTRT Check if guidebar needs Fl centering 76 CF CMPB 08 Left edge extreme, bar 08 must start either left or allowed area 78 2D BLT LEFT 10 7A C1 CMPB 38 right edge extreme 38 7C 2E BGT RIGHT Or right of allowed area 06 7E 86 LDAA 34 No centering requtred 34 80 C6 HORONLY LDAB 06 Load horizontal speed onlyEMI79.1 82 20 BRA STOMOTR tore in PIA 0A 84 86 RIGHT LDAA S34 If bar too far right down 34 make vertical direction up 86 C6 LDAB 23 Store vert. speed 2, Hor.EMI79.2 speed 3 88 20 BRA STOMOTR Store in PIA 04 8A 86 LEFT LDAA 3C If bar too far left up 3c make vertical direction down 8C C6 LDAB 23 Vert speed 2, Hor. speed 3EMI79.3 8E B7 STOMOTR STAA PIACRB Store vertical direction 80 07 92 F7 STAB PIAORB Both motor speeds 80 06 94 DO 00 96 7E JMP CENTER Back to start 00 53 99 96 SIDE LDAA HORDIR Makes sure proper horizontal DA direction is chosen for this cycle 9B B7 STAA PIACRA 80 05 9E 20 BRA SIDE D4AO 39 END RTS 1A0 86 PATCH2 LDAA 03 Valid blank at edge of guidebar 03 lA2 B7 STAA PIAORB Slow down motor in case 80 this is valid blank 06 1A5 96 LDAA BLANKCNT Register blank data AD 1A7 4C INCA lA8 81 CMPA 04 Blank data seen min. number 04 times in a row 1AA 27 BEQ . 5 Yes Stop motor and exit 05 from center 1AC 97 STAA BLANKCNT No keep timing the blank AD LAE 7E JMP CENTER Back another time DO 53 IBI 86 . 5 LDAA 34 Store vertical direction 34IB3 SF CLRB Clear both motors 1B4 B7 STAB PIAORB 80 07IBA 7F CLR BLANKCNT Reset flag automatically 00 AD IBD 39 RTS True end of guidebar here PULSEIFO Cl PULSE CMPB 10 B contains motor speed, is 10 pulse vert. If so B 10 1F2 2D BLT HORDIR No Store direction in hor. PIA 05 1F4 B7 STAA PLACRB 80 1F7 20 BRA . 8 08 1F9 B7 HORDIR STAA PIACRA 80 05 IFC 86 LDAA num 34 If horizontal motor may not 34 yet be enabled for output, Go do itIFE B7 STAA PLACRB 80 01 201 F7 .8 STAB PIAORB Start upmotor 80 06 204 D6 LDAB PULSTIM Fetch pulse width F5 206 5A MORE DECB 207 27 BEQ STOP Pulse timed out OA 209 96 LDAA SRCHFLG No Data search desired A6 during pulse 206 26 BNE JUMP Yes Go look OD 20D 4F CLRA Execute Inner wall 20E 4A LOOP DECA Loop 20F 26 BNE LOOP FD 211 20 BRA MORE Go test for end of pulse F3 213 7F STOP CLR PIAORB Yes Stop motor 80 o6 216 7F CLR SRCHFLG Reset input enable Flag 00 A6 219 39 RTS Back to caller 21A 7E JUMP JMP PATCH 1 01 83 183 D7 . PATCHl STAB SAVI Save B to keep count D2 pulse width 185 BD AGAIN JSR SRCH Go look DO 1E 188 F6 LDAB SAVI Bring it back DO D2 18B 96 LDAA LITCNT Get the data F2 26 BNE LIGHT Go see what to do about it 06 18F 96 DARK LDAA SRCHFLG If no data, stop if 0 A6 Keep going if 0 191 2B BMI STOPI Here for stop 06 193 20 BRA MORE1 Else Here for more pulse 07 195 96 LIGHT LDAA SRCHFLG If data there, stop if A6 search flag 0, and keep going if SRCHFLAG 0 197 2B BMI MORE I Here for more pulse 03 199 7E STOP JMP STOP Here for stop 02 13 19C 7E MORES JMP MORE Here for more pulse 02 06 DECODE Positions, reads packs a code when brought into view by monitor 3F7 86 DECODE LDAA 00 Turn on reread LED 00 3F9 BD JSR SWITCH Only executed if code out of 05 focus user presses red switch B5 after focussing, then code re read 3FC 86 DECODE LDAA 3C Slow movement In up direction 3C to position read index bar 3FEC6 LDAB 20 Select slow vert. speed 20 400 B7 STAA PIACRB Store direction 80 07 403 F7 STAB PIAORB Store speed to start motor 80 06 406 BD INDEX JSR SRCH Read leftmost feature 00 Index BAR 1E 409 96 LDAA FEATSTRT Look where it starts Fl 40B 81 CMPA 20 Far enough to right 20 40D 2D BLT INDEX F7 40F 00 00 00 00 413 86 ENOUGH LDAA 34 Now reverse direction to bring 34 all data into view 415 87 STAA PLACRB Index bar at far left with 80 same slow speed 07 418 BD FIX JSR SRCH Fixes index bar at top of view 00 1E 41B 96 LDAA FESTSTRT Look where index bar starts Fl 41D 81 CMPA 10 Close enough to top 10 41F 2E BGT FIX No keep moving down F7 421 Yes Stop JMP CALC Yes Soop motor calculate 04 size of final positioning pulse FB 424 8B FINAL ADDA 0A Add io exp. deter. pulse width, OA set up to remove index bar and erase all data in view 426 97 STAB PULSINT FS 428 86 LDAA 34 Direction down 34 42A C6 LDAB 30 Speed Slow vertical 30 42C BD JSR PULSE Do it then ready to o stablize view for reading the FO data bars 42F 86 LDAA num FO FO Long pulse width delay time 431 97 STAA PULSTIM F5 433 86 LDAA num 34 Do not change motor direction 34 435 5F CLRB No motion during delay 436 BD JSR PULSE Perform the delay then read 01 to read data FO 439 96 INTERPRET LDAA RESULT D9 Routine is to read properly asitioned code by interrupting data found in the four quadrants of the view 43B 97 STAA PREV Save previous results in case AF this read is bad 43D BD JSR SCAN First get the data 02 46 440 96 LDAA CODEPTRM Determine how many features F4 were found, from size of array 442 81 CMPA 06 Less than three features 06 6 Bytes 444 2D BLT DECODE 5 Yes Wait for user switch B3 as signal that focussing has been adjusted, then re read code 446 81 CMPA 0A S features 10 bytes DA 448 2C BGE DECODE 5 Yes Wait as above, then A9 re read code 44A 96 LDAA CODETABL No Where does first F6 feature start 44C 97 STAA QUAD Initialize quad, marker to EA start of first feature 00 delimits quadrant in which 00 first data bar is expected 450 7F CLR BARCNT Points to data bar presently DO being interpreted D3 45B CE LDX 0000 00 00 456 DF STX TEMP 2 Points to feature presently EE under investigation 458 00 Look for feature start 00 within specified tolerance 00 of quadrant marker 45B DE NEXFEAT LDX TEMP 2 Fetch feature pointer EE 45D A6 LDAA CODETABL,X Use it to fetch feature start F6 45F 90 SUBA QUAD Find distance from EA feature to quad. marker Abs. value of FEATSTRT QUAD 461 ZA BPL . 01 463 40 NEGA Change sign only if neg.464 81 . 1 CMPA S06 Is feature in quadrant, 06 within tolerance 466 2F BLE READ Yes Assign it to the data 68 bar and read it 468 OS INX No Advance pointer to next feature 469 OS INX 46A DF STX TEMP 2 EE 46C 96 LDAA TEMP 3 Check for end of feature EF array 46E 91 CMPA CODEPTR4i F4 470 2D BNT NEXFEAT Nop at end of array, keep E9 looking 472 00 If pointing past end of array, 00 no feature was found for the 00 data bar Assign thin feature 00 CODE 1 to the bar by setting 00 carry bit 00 478 OD SEC 479 7E JMP ASSIGN 04 DA Reads selected feature and assigns it to a data bar 0 or 1 then packs data bar into result and sets up for next data bar, if any. 4DO86 READ LDAA 05 Fetch min. size for FAT 05 0 BAR 4D2 Al CMPA CODETABL l,X Compare with feature F7 size 4D4 2F BLE ZERO Data bar larger, must be 0 03 4D6 OD SEC Data bar smaller, must be I 4D7 ZO BRA ASSIGN 01 4D9 OC ZERO CLG 4DA 79 ASSIGN ROL RESULT Carry contains data bar value 00 Shift left into Z digit result D9 4DD96 LDAA BARCNT Check for last data bar D3 4DF 81 CMPA 503 03 4E1 26 BNE SETUP Not yet set up for next bar 07 4E3 96 LDAA CODECNT Last bar is this first code DF 4E5 27 BEQ PATCH 4 Yes Verify the code C9 4E7 20 BRA SWAP Not want until digits are B6 swapped to verify 00 4EACE SETUP LDX 0000 Get feature pointer back to 00 start of array 00 4EDDF STX TEMP 2 EE 4EF 7C INC BARCNT Advance bar count 00 D3 4F2 96 LDAA QUAD Advance quad, marker EA 4F4 8B ADDA OE OE 4F6 97 STAA QUAD Store it EA 4F8 7E JMP NEXFEAT Start looking for new data bar 04 5B Check to see if in Position for final pulse to remove index bar 4FB 81 CALC CMPA 10 is index bar still to left 10 of 1 4 mark 4FD2F BLE NOTRDY Yes not read for final 06 pulse keep moving down 4FF 7F CLR PIAORB No Stop motor 80 06 502 7E JMP FINAL Calculate size of final 04 ,pulse from index bar position 24 in ACCA 505 7E NOTRDY JUMP DECODE If sent here go back 63 and start positioning FC over again 508 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 50F 00 Subroutine to verify code just read Low lim., up lim. give accepted range for code verification. SEB 96 VEBIFY LDAA LOWLIM Fetch limits lower A2 5EDD6 LDAB UPLIM upper A3 SEF 7D TST CODECNT Ist or 2nd code 00 EF 5F2 26 BNE NOMASK If second l code already CD counted compare code with full limitsSF4 84 ANDA 0F If first no codes counted OF compare code read with lower digit of limits only 5F6C4 ANDB OF OF 5F8 20 BRA NOMASK Go compare C7 5Cl 91 NOMASK CMPA RESULT Is code read result less than D9 lower limit 5C3 2E BGT SET Yes Set re read flag 07 5C5 Dl CMPB RESULT No greater than upper limit D9 5C7 2D BLT SET Yes set re read flag 03 5C9 4F CLEAR CLRA No clear re read flag 5CA20 BRA . 2 Go do it 02 XC 86 SET LDAA 01 Set re read flag here 01 5CE97 . 2 STAA READ Go do it Al 5DO39 RTS Return to caller IV. COMBINED DIGITIZED AND VIEWER MICROFICHE INFORMSvION RETRIEVALA. Parts Management and Inventory Control Example In the foregoing discussions, the system has been covered with respect to proper alignment of a microfiche, both with respect to the viewer and with respect to the scanner. A specific example will now be provided with respect to a combined system, suitable for PMIC applications, with reference to FIGS. 1, JA, 2, 3 and 14. In utilizing the apparatus of FIG. 14 in a PMIC application, a single microprocessor may be employed.In addition to the apparatus already discussed, peripheral apparatus is provided for the scanner, which apparatus comprises a scanner control 202 and the sensor apparatus disclosed in FIG. 7, namely the sensor position drive 90, the sensor alignment drive 92, the scanner sensor 98, and the sensor register 102, as well as the auxiliary apparatus used in displaying, recording and transmitting the output data. This latter apparatus comprises the LED display 22, the line printer 14, the digital tape recorder 15, and the MODEM unit 16. Before turning to a specific example, as can be seen in FIG. 1, a dealership information terminal is generally illustrated at 10 as comprising a microfiche file 11 which includes master, parts and price microfiche, a viewer 12, a scanner 13, a printer 14, a tape recorder 15, a MODEM unit 16, and his local telephone instrument 17. The telephone instrument 17 may be used to connect the terminal by way of the telephone network 18 to a central computer 19 located in a plant which supplies parts to the dealership. The printer may advantageously be a line printer, such as the 40 character line printer of Anadex modelDP 1000. A suitable tape recorder is the digital recorder, known as the SC 1000 Dumb Recorder, manufactured by Seaton Corp. The MODEM unit may be a Data COM 302. The viewer 12 is illustrated as comprising a viewing screen 20 which is positioned with respect to an optical system not shown which includes a microfiche transport which receives the viewer type microfiche through a slot 21. A digital display 22, for example a LED display, is positioned immediately below the viewing screen 20. The viewer 12 also comprises a keyboard which includes a four function calculator unit 23 and a plurality of operational switches 24 33, the purpose of which will become evident from the description below. FIG. 2 illustrates a portion of a frame 34 of a viewer microfiche, corresponding to a frame 112 of FIG.8, which microfiche is a master microfiche, while FIG.3 illustrates a frame 35, also corresponding to a frame 112 of FIG. 8, of a viewer microfiche which is constructed as a parts fiche. The frame 35 is illustrated as comprising one portion 36 which bears graphic information, here in the form of an exploded view of a pump, and another portion 37 which bears alphanumeric, information concerning the parts illustrated in the frame portion 36. Assuming now that a customer goes to the parts department of a dealership, for example a farm equipment dealership, needing a part for a tractor. The customer has the model number and can describe where the part is located on the tractor. Armed with this information, the parts man matches the machine and model information provided by the customer to the machine and model information on the header of the parts microfiche in the microfiche file 11, extracts the corresponding microfiche from the microfiche file and reads from the header that the parts on this microfiche are also found on the price microfiche 1. He then extracts the corresponding price microfiche and inserts the parts microfiche in the slot 21 of the viewer and the price microfiche in the slot 13 of the scanner 13. The price microfiche, of course, takes the form discussed above with respect to FIGS.4 and 5, and has a header which identifies the models served by that parts microfiche. There are, of course, fewer price microfiche than parts microfiche, since a single price microfiche carries prices for several models.The data itself is in the form of digitized codes readable to the scanner, rather than to the human eye. The parts man then turns the viewer on with theON OFF switch 44 to energize all of the system hardware and the microfiche are automatically registered in place. The parts man then presses the HOME button 33 which inputs an address for a home position into the entry reaister 180 FIG. 14 to automatically index the microfiche to the first frame. The first frame is an index frame which bears alphanumeric information for the parts on that particular microfiche, such as Dual Pump Frame 12 . The parts man then enters the 12 with the numerical keys 23 and presses the ADVANCE key 30. The 12 is the address and the key 30 provides the activation. The system operates for alignment as discussed above so that frame 12 becomes properly registered and the content thereof appears on the screen 20. In this example, this is the frame illustrated inFIG. 3. The parts man then checks the part and its location with the customer to determine if the proper part has, indeed, been selected.In this example, the part 11 indicated at 38 is the desired part and is described with the key number 11 at 39 in the portion 37 of the frame as being the manufacturer s part number W 11852, as seen at 40, and is described at 41 to be a SHAFTdrive .1 . The correct part corresponds to the locator number 11 01 237 . The portion 1 of the locator number indicated at 42 corresponds to the price microfiche. The locator number has a two fold function.First of all, within the dealership the locator number can identify a physical location of the part, e.g., the corresponding part bin. Secondly, the locator number portion 43 is the address for the price microfiche. The parts man then enters the locator number portion 43 with the keyboard keys 23 and presses the PRICE key 31. In response to these actions, the scanner transport moves to the addressed column and reads that portion of the column called for by the address As an example, and referring to FIG. 14, the entry from the address register 180 into the comparator register 182 may set up a basis of comparison which instructs the micro processor and associated circuits to cause the scanner sensor to read only those bits occurring after the sensor scans a predetermined number of bits, The scanner control 202 feeds the scanned information into the comparator register 182 via the auxiliary code register 200.The comparator register 182, over a similar path back to the scanner control 202, which comprises logic circuits, monitors the data being presented from the scanner sensor 98 to the sensor register 102 so that the information finally lodged in the auxiliary code register is that portion of the scanned line defined by the address of the locator number. Actuation of this process by depression of the key 31 causes the desired information to be output to the display unit 22. As can be seen in FIG. 1A, the manufacturer s part number W 11852 is displayed as a check, as is the price fiche locator number C1 01 237. In addition, the asterisk appearing on the display tells the parts man that the dealer has that part in stock.The information to the far right hand side indicates that the desired part has a price of 7.25. Again, the locator number in the central portion of the display informs the parts man of the physical location of the part. The desired part is retrieved and the parts man copies the information from the display line onto the customer s sales invoice. Then, for the dealership records, the parts man presses the SALE key 24, and possibly also the ORDER key 26 before depressing the PRINT key 29. The key 29 activates the line printer 14 which immediately copies the part information, error free, from the entire display line onto a printer tape. The entry is thereby logged as a part of the day s transactions. In cases where the part is common to several subassemblies, a appears as a part of the display to indicate that the locator number is a composite number.Inasmuch as the information on that part would appear on many parts microfiche and have numerous locator numbers, a single number is selected as the locator and appears on the master microfiche, the price microfiche and on the stop bins. In situations where a telephone inquiry is made and the customer can provide the manufacturer s part number directly, the parts man can immediately access the correct master microfiche of the few necessary master microfiche which carry all of the manufacturer s parts in alphanumeric order. Upon selecting the correct master microfiche, he places the same in the viewer slot 21 and presses the HOME key 33. As with the parts microfiche, the master microfiche is addressed and moved to the home frame, generally the first frame. The home frame comprises an index or the first page of an index which states that the part numbers in the area under investigation are located at frame 47.He then enters 47 with the keys 23 and presses theADVANCE key which, as before, causes the desired frame to appear on the viewer screen 20. He there finds the manufacturer s part number provided by the customer, which, in this example, again is part W 11852, as seen in FIG. 2. As also illustrated in FIG. 2, this part number corresponds to the locator number 1 01 237.The parts man can now select the price microfiche 1 and proceed as in the foregoing example. Cancellations are also readily handled with thisPMIC system. If a customer calls later to cancel an order, the parts man can simply bring up the same display on the LED unit 22, depress the CANCEL key 27 and then depress the PRINT key 29. The cancellation activates both the printer 14 and the magnetic tape recorder 15. A number of conveniences for the parts man have been built into the system. The memory key tEM can be used to enter all part locator numbers calling for the same price microfiche and recalled by pressing the HR key and then the PRICE key to display the line of information. The clear entry CE key permits the parts man to recover from a faulty entry, as is common practice with calculator devices, and the RETRACE key 32 permits the parts man to retrace frames step by step previously called for up to, for example, 32 frames in that the internal built in memory is a last in first out LIFO memory. The parts man will find the printed tape an essential part of his operation in that it carries all transactions identified by the symbols SALE, CHARGE,ORDER, CANCELLATION that was a SALE or a CIIARGE or anORDER or a CANCELLATION. The printed tape also carries information entered directly from the keyboard, for example the printing of the customer s invoice number with each transaction. The system also allows the parts man to order a particular quantity by calling up the price line, by keying in the desired quantity, depressing the Q key 28, depressing the ORDER key 26 and then the key 29. Should the dealer desire to have a listing of all the transactions of the day arranged by type, all transactions can be placed on the magnetic tape during the day and then, at the end of the day, extracted type bytype onto the print tape, by use of optional additional controls associated with the magnetic recorder. The printed tape is a permanent record of the day 5 activity inthe parts department, as well as a record of the day s orders contained on the magnetic tape. At the end of the day, when the parts man is ready to submit orders to the computer 19 at the factory, he places a telephone call with the conventional telephone instrument 17 and dials in his assigned identification code. He is then interfaced with the computer 19 which will accept the data from the magnetic tape unit 15. He then places the telephone hand set on the MODEM unit 16 and activates playing of the magnetic tape through the MODEM unit 16, the telephone 17 and the telephone network 18 to the computer 19. Such daily, or even weekly communication, though it requires typically only a few minutes of telephone time, provides for frequent order fulfillment from the manufacturer s warehouse. Frequent order and fulfillment capability provides accuracy in real inventory maintenance. In an ON line real time situation, speedy and frequent delivery must be made in order to justify the high costs involved. Although the instant PMIC system is based on fast and frequent delivery, it can, through the nature of its low cost, maintain a high degree of efficiency while permitting a more modest delivery system in terms of turn around time. To this point, the PMIC system described has serviced six of the seven critical areas previously stressed including quick access to parts identification and price, fast retrieval from storage bins, complete records, daily ordering and frequent fulfillment. As to up dating and maintaining a smoothly functioning system, the key is the microfiche as a data base, which is distributed at the remote locations, on safe, read only microfiche media. A PMIC system requires information that is both accurate and current current enough for the application, yet costing no more than absolutely necessary. The price microfiche plays a particularly special communications role in providing this information up date feature, both accurately and economically. Heretofore, a troublesome particularly disadvantageous drawback to the use of microfilm verses paper was the inability to correct errors regarding price or part information. When a parts man became aware of an error he could not make a note of it on microfilm as he could on paper. Now, however with the advent of the scanner the cooperableCOM generated digital microfiche having high density digitized information, errors are quickly and economically rectified. The price microfiche are replaced at responsible intervals and each may contain a special section which holds inventory up date information. When the parts man receives a new price microfiche he may place the same in the scanner and press a predetermined address, for example, 30 300 on the keyboard and then the PRICE key. In response to this action, the title line of a list of special messages appears on the display. He may, at this point, elect to read these messages oneby one by pressing the PRICE key each time. Or, he may elect to use the PRINT key and obtain a print out of all the messages. The price microfiche also supplies the corrective information required for a part substitutions, parts that have become obsolete, new interchangeable parts, replacements, and errors. G Jhen the locator number for such a part is used, the display line appears, but special information on the digitized price microfiche energizes, in an automatically flashing manner, a lamp below the PRICE key. This signals that there is corrective information on this part. By pressing the PRICE key, the correct information will appear on the line in this case, a substituted part number. All. of the critical areas noted above have now been served part identification, price, retrieval from storage, records, ordering, order fulfillment, and up dating of inventory information and corrections. From the foregoing, it is readily apparent that the PMIC system disclosed herein is a totally integrated conmunications system which is readily expandable in function to economically meet the data base and random access requirements of business, industry, education, military and government. V. SINGLE MICROFICHE CONTROL SYSTEMSA. Banking and Credit Check Examples As mentioned above, bank account signature cards may be placed on viewer type microfiche with the account number serving as an address of the frame on which that signature will appear. Inasmuch as a great number of signatures can be placed on a frame, account numbers would be grouped and a decoder included to define a common address for a plurality of signatures.Keying in of the account number would then cause the viewer to function as before so that the desired signature, along with signatures of the same frame, will be brought into view for checking the same against the signature on a check, withdrawal slip or the like. Privacy in checking account status and other information may be obtained by utilizing, in a separate system, the scanner 13, the LED display unit 22 and a keyboard, all located in the same housing. Referring to FIG. 1B and FIG. 7, the system would operate as described above such that the account number, properly keyed in, will cause the scanner to find the proper account and provide the account information on the display. FIG. 1B illustrates the scanner 13 connected to the keyboard 82 of FIG. 7 and receiving a digitized microfiche 50 of the type illustrated in FIG. 5, for feeding information to a display unit 22.B. TV Applications Referring to FIG. 7, the circuit is shown adapted for display of the digitized information carried by the scanner type microfiche on a TV set 101, the information being fed from the data processing circuits 96 to theTV set 101 by way of a video display generator 103.The video display generator may be constituted by, for example, the video display generator S68047 manufactured by American Microsystems, Inc.C. Computer Programming Referring to FIGS. 1C and 7, a computer, such as a home computer is generally illustrated as comprising a program section including a RAM 105 which is fed by a scanner 13 which receives the program on a digital microfiche 54 of the type illustrated in FIG. 6. In this embodiment, there is no addressing of the scanner and the keyboard and entry register would include a permanent sequential address for sequentially stepping the scanner to output the program to the RAM 105. A more simple control circuit may be included in the scanner in place of the microprocessor to merely step the scanner through its sequence of operations. The embodiment of FIG. 5 may also be used as a RAM and accessed by addressing of the scanner by the computer. Although we have described our invention by reference to particular illustrative embodiments thereof, many changes and modifications of the invention may become apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.We therefore intend to include within the patent warranted hereon all such changes and modifications as may reasonably and properly be included within the scope of our contribution to the art.