# Apparatus for processing photographic material.

## Abstract
Photographic processing apparatus is described com prising a tray 11 for receipt of photographically sensitised material to be processed having a light tight lid 17 to form the processing tank and a raised annular foot 13 on the underside of the tray, and comprising a domed base 1 , the domed base and the underside of the tray member being such that, when the tray member is mounted on the domed base, substantially a point of the tray member within the annular foot 13 is movable in a circular path substantially about the central axis of the domed base with the annular foot 13 being on the domed base 1 . The tray 11 may also be rotatable about its central axis. The tray, on the domed base, can be driven manually or by motor, to give the tray a rocking and rotating movement. In this photographic sensitised material can be developed in the tray 11 using small amounts of processing liquid but ensuring good spreading of that processing liquid over the material being processed. In addition the invention provides apparatus for the production of photographic prints consisting of a fixed focus enlarger in a light tight enclosure. A sheet of photographic print paper is inserted above the enlarger base in a cassette with a slide enabling it to be exposed. The cassette may be removed and a lid placed thereon, the slide then being removed and the assembly of lid and cassette then constitut ing a processing tank. Preferably the processing tank is configured as discussed above.