# Device and method for determining flow rates in a two phase stream.

## Abstract
A flowmeter for measuring pressure drops indicative of the flowrates of the individual phases in a gas and liquid containing two phase stream. Means are provided for creat ing and measuring a frictional pressure drop in the two phase flow. Means are also provided for creating and mea suring an acceleration pressure drop in the two phase flow. Mathematical models are known in two phase theory for correlating these pressure drop measurements with the flowrates of the individual phases. In a preferred mode of the invention the frictional pressure drop is measured across a twisted tape 7 the accelerational pressure drop is measured accross a venturi 3 downstream of the twisted tape, and the pressure drops are measured by pressure transducer means 4, 5 . The meter also preferably provides means for measuring the static pressure of the two phase flow.

## Claims
CLAIMS l. A flowmeter for measuring differential pressures indicative of flowrates in a conduit carrying a gas and liquid flowing stream, characterised in that the flowmeter 1 comprises first means 2 for creating a frictional pressure drop in the conduit 6 , means 4 for measuring the frictional pressure drop, second means 3 for creating an accelerational pressure drop in the conduit, and means, 5 for measuring the accelerational pressure drop, the second means 3 preferably being located downstream of the first means 2 , 2. A flowmeter as claimed in claim 1 characterised in that the first means 2 is a longitudinally twisted tape 7 positioned in the conduit 6 and adapted to cause swirled flow in the stream. 3. A flowmeter as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, characterised in that the second means 3 is a venturi positioned in the conduit 6 . 4. A flowmeter as claimed in claim 2 and claim 3, characterised in that the means 4 for measuring the frictional pressure drop comprises pressure transducer means connected across at least a portion of the twisted tape 7 ,and the means 5 for measuring the accelerational pressure drop comprises pressure transducer means connected across at least a portion of the venturi 3 . 5. A flowmeter as claimed in any one of claims 1 to characterised in that third means 29 are provided for measuring the static pressure in the conduit 6 , said third means 29 preferably comprising a manometer connected to the conduit 6 . 6. A method for measuring differential pressures indicative of flowrates in a conduit carrying a gas and liquid flowing stream, characterised by creating a frictional pressure drop in the conduit 63, measuring the frictional pressure drop, creating an accelerational pressure drop in the conduit, measuring the accelerational pressure drop, and determining by mathematical relationships the flowrates of the individual phases of the stream.

## Description
A FLCIZ.TER .D METHOD, FOR USE IN DETEINING FLOWRATES IN A fO PHASE STREAM. The present invention relates to flowmeters for measuring pressure drops indicative of flowrates in a two phase flowing stream. By two phase flow there is meant a flowing stream containing gaseous and liquid phases of one or more comp onents. Exemplary streams include wet steam, oil and gas, and air and water. Flowmeters used to meter single phase flow usually include a device measuring a pressure drop in the flowing stream, which pressure drop can be correlated with the flow rate of the stream through theoretical mathematical models. In two phase flow however it is usually desirable to obtain values of the individual gas and liquid flowrates,Wg and Wf respectively. These flowrates are usually expressed in terms of total mass flow W and quality of flow x , which terms are defined as W Wg Wf , and x Wg g w Wf g f A number of two phase flowmeters have already been proposed. Two such meters, which correlate one of the above flowrate parameters with a pressure differential measurement, are the Orifice Plate Meter and the Venturi Meter. TheOrifice Plate Meter comprises an orifice mounted across the conduit carrying a two phase flow. An accelerational pressure drop is measured across the orifice plate. A mathematical model is then used to correlate the stream s total mass flow with the accelerational pressure differential measured. The Venturi Meter comprises a venturiplaced in the conduit carrying the two phase flow An accelerational pressure drop across the venturi is measured and correlated by mathematical models either to the quality and total mass flow of the stream or to the quality and a dimensionless modified Collins parameter Fop, which parameter will be later explained. Both of the above two meters rely on one pressure differential measurement to evaluate parameters of two phase flow. Other two phase flow meters have been proposed, which monitor two phase flow with two or more measurements. One such meter employs a gamma ray densitometer to make void fraction measurements and a turbine meter or drag disc to obtain a second measurement. The two measurements are correlated mathematically to indicate the individual phase mass flowrates. This metering technique is limited to a very small quality range. It is also expensive, employing a delicate gamma ray densitometer instrument. In such two phase streams as high pressure wet steam, such instruments would not be practical. Very recently an Orifice Couple Flowmeter has been proposed for two phase flow, see K. Sekoguchi et al., Two Phase Flow Measurements with Orifice Couple in HorizontalPipe Line , Bulletin of the ISME, Vol. 21, No. 162,December, 1978. The meter includes two segmental orifices or baffles in the conduit carrying the two phase flow. Three pressure drop measurements are taken, two across the segmental orifices and the third across two of the orifices. The two individual pressure drops and the sum pressure drop are then correlated, by a model specific to this system, to the gas and liquid flowrates. This metering system appears to give very good results. A disadvantage to the system is that the data is not presented in a dimensionless form. Consequently, performances for different systems are difficult to predict. We have postulated that, in order to meter two phase flow, that is to evaluate two of the four flowrate parameters, quality, total mass flowrate, gas mass flowrate and liquid mass flowrate, one should use two independent relationships between two of these four parameters and such easily measured two phase properties as pressure and temperature.In this way two physical aspects of two phase flow would be used, which aspects would follow independent laws. theoretical two phase models are known which may be used to correlate an accelerational pressure differential with flowrates and to correlate a frictional pressure drop with flowrates. According to the invention, there is provided a flowmeter for measuring differential pressures indicative of flowrates in a conduit carrying a gas and liquid flowing stream, characterised in that the flowmeter comprises first means for creating a frictional drop pressure drop in the conduit, means for measuring the frictional pressure drop, second means for creating an accelerational pressure drop in the conduit, and means for measuring the accelerational pressure drop, the second means preferably being located downstream of the first means. Further according to the invention, there is provided a method for measuring differential pressures indicative of flowrates in a conduit carrying a gas and liquid flowing stream, characterised by creating a frictional pressure drop in the conduit, measuring the frictional pressure drop, creating an accelerational pressure drop in the conduit, measuring the accelerational pressure drop, and determining by mathematical relationships the flowrates of the individual phases of the stream. In a preferred form of the invention, the frictional pressure drop is measured across a twisted tape in the conduit carrying the two phase flow and the accelerational pressure drop is measured across a venturi positioned in the conduit downstream of the twisted tape. This preferred combinatiom of measurements takes advantage of a known fact that the venturiaccepts annular flow to give an excellent correlation between the pressure drop measurement and total mass flow. Thus the twisted tape, upstream of the venturi, enhances the performance of the venturi by promoting i annular flow. Furthermore, the independence of the twisted tape and the venturi measurements is inherent since the former measures the frictional pressure drop while the latter measures an accelerational pressure drop. In another preferred aspect of the invention a third parameter is measured to evaluate the physical properties of the two phase flow. This measurement is most preferably a measurement of the temperature or the static pressure of the flow. In a two phase one component stream such as wet steam, either the temperature or static pressure measurement can be used as a measure of the density and viscosity of the stream. In a two phase two component stream, both a temperature and static pressure measurement may be needed. Thse physical properties are used in the mathematical models used to correlate the pressure drop measurements with the individual mass flowrates. An embodiment of the invention will now be described, by way of example only with reference to the accompanying diagrammatic drawings Figure 1 shows an embodiment of a twisted tape swirl generator of a flowmeter in accordance with the invention, the generator being used to create a frictional pressure drop in a two phase flow Figure 2 shows an embodiment of a venturi of the flowmeter, the venturi being used to create an accelerational pressure drop in the two phase flow Figure 3 shows a computer program used to correlate the pressure drop measurements across the twisted tape and venturi with the individual flowrates of the two phases Figure 4 is a plot illustrating the accuracy of the flowmeter and the correlating algorithm of Figure 3 for the gas flowrate Wg the actual gas flowrate is plotted against the gas flowrate obtained by correlating the pressure drop measurement from the flowmeter with the gas, flowrate and Figure 5 is a plot similar to Figure 4, showing the accuracy of the flowmeter and correlating algorithm for the liquid mass flowrate Wf. The flowmeter 1 in accordance with the preferred embodiment of the present invention is functional to create and measure pressure drops in the two phase flow stream, which pressure drops can be correlated to the individual flowrates of the two phases. As shown inFigures 1 and 2, the flowmeter 1 includes a twisted tape swirl generator 2 and a venturi 3 mounted in a horizontal conduit 6 carrying a two phase flow stream. Pressure transducer means 4 and 5 respectively are provided to measure the pressure differential across the twisted tape 2 and the venturi 3. The twisted tape swirl generator 2 provides a means for creating a frictional pressure drop in the horizontal conduit 6. Alternatively a linear length of tubing could be used to create a frictional pressure drop, however this would necessitate a long length of tubing. Twisted tape swirl generators are known per se in heat exchangers, see for exampleE. Smithberg et al., Friction and Forced Convection HeatTransfer Characteristics in Tubes with Twisted Tape SwirlGenerators , Journal of Heat Transfer, February, 1964, p.39, and G.S.R. Narasimhaumurty et al., Effect of Turbulence Promoters in Two Phase Gas Liquid Flow in Horizontal Pipes ,Chemical Engineering Science, Vol. 24, 1969, p.331. Briefly, the twisted tape 2 includes a length of steel tape 7 having a width equal to the diameter of the conduit 6. The tape 7 is twisted into the conduit 6 to a desired pitch and the ends 8 secured into notches 9 in the conduit 6. Preferably the upstream edge 10 of the tape is aligned vertically to split the entering liquid phase evenly. The twisted tape induces a swirled flow, otherwise termed annular flow. Annular flow is a two phase flow pattern characterised by an annular film of liquid travelling along the inner wall of the tube with the gaseous flow moving through the centre core of the tube at a much larger velocity. A frictional pressure drop model for gas liquid flow through a twisted tape has been developed in the aforesaid paper by G.S.R.Narasimhamurty To measure the frictional pressure drop across the twisted tape 2, two pressure taps 11 are provided leading into the conduit 6, preferably at points spaced slightly inwardly from the ends 8 of the tape 7. This spacing allows the annular flow pattern, known to be created in the twisted tape 2, to develop and also avoids the possible entrance and exit pressure Losses. Each pressure tap 11 consists of a piezometric ring 12 sealed around the conduit 6 enclosing an annulus 13 between the ring 12 and the conduit 6. A plurality of holes 14 through the walls of the conduit 6 open into the annulus 13. Through a connecting hole 15 in the piezometric ring 12, is connected a pressure line 16 leading to one side of a diaphragm magnetic reluctance transducer 17. The transducer 17 is known per se and functions to convert a pressure differential into an electric signal. The venturi 3 is shown in detail in Figure 2. The venturi 3 provides means for creating an accelerational pressure drop in the conduit 6. Alternatively, a nozzle, orifice, segmental baffle or other device, known to create an accelerational pressure drop in two phase flow, can be substituted for the venturi. The venturi 3 however is preferred, since it readily accepts the annular two phase flow from the twisted tape 2 and also gives a good correlation between the accelerational pressure drop measured across the venturi and the total mass flowrate W . The, venturi 3 is placed downstream of the twisted tape 2 for the above reason. The venturi includes a constricted throat section 18 in which the velocity of the two phase flow increases while the pressure across the throat 18 decreases. To measure the accelerational pressure drop across the venturi 3, two pressure taps 19 are provided leading into the venturi. As shown in Figure 2, the taps 19 are spaced inwardly from the ends of the venturi 3. The pressure taps 19 are identical to the pressure taps 11 previously disclosed and like reference numerals have been used to indicate like parts. A pressure line 20 interconnects the pressure taps 19 to opposite sides of a diaphragm magneticreluctance transducer 21. Since pressure fluctuations in two phase flow metering are usually high, pressure snubbers 22 are preferably included in the pressure lines 16, 20 between each of the pressure taps 11, 19 and the transducers 17, 21. These pressure snubbers 22 serve to dampen the pressure fluctuations.The snubbers 22 comprise a moveable weighted piston not shown inserted in a thin capillary tube not shown . To further limit pressure fluctuations, the pressure lines 16, 20 are periodically purged with either a gas or liquid.The gas or liquid filling the lines 16 and 20 acts as a means for transmitting the pressure from the pressure taps 11, 19 to the,transducers 17, 20. Thus purging technique is standard in two phase flow metering. To protect the electronic transducers 17, 21, isolation valves 25 are included in the pressure lines 16, 20 on each side of the transducers 17, 21. Equalisation valves 26 are also included to further protect the transducers. Opposite ends 23, 24 of the conduit 6 are threaded to connect the flowmeter 1 with the pipeline not shown carrying the two phase flow. Preferably the diameter of the conduit 6 is the same as the diameter of the pipeline so as not to further interrupt the two phase flow. In most two phase flow metering situations, it is desirable to measure a third parameter, such as the static pressure of the stream. As will become evident from the description to follow, this third parameter is usually needed in order to correlate the above two pressure drop measurements with the individual flowrates of the two phases. This correlation includes physical properties such as the density and viscosity of each of the two phases. In a one component two phase stream such as wet steam, a measurement, of either the static pressure of the temperature of the stream, allows one to calculate the density and viscosity of each phase. With wet steam for instance, standard steam tables may be used. In a two component two phase stream both a temperature and static pressure measurement may be needed. If, however, the flowmeter 1 is to be used in a two phase flow stream having known physical properties, the third parameter would not be needed. In general, the third parameter can be measured anywhere in proximity to the twisted tape 2 and venturi 3.In Figure 2, means 30 are shown for measuring the static pressure of the two phase flow downstream of the venturi.The means 30, includes a pressure tap 27, identical to the pressure tap 11, is provided in the conduit 6. A pressure line 28 leading from the tap 27 is connected to a pressure sensing device 29, such as an open ended mercury manometer or an electronic pressure transducer. If it is desirable to measure the temperature of the stream, a suitable temperature sensing device not shown may be provided in the flowmeter. The following example is included to demonstrate the operability of the preferred embodiment of the flowmeter, and to show the type of calculations involved in correlating the flowmeter measurements with the individual flowrates of the two phases.EXAMPLE A flowmeter as shown in Figures 1 and 2 was constructed and inserted into a 1 diameter pipeline carrying an airwater two phase flow stream. The twisted tape swirl generator consisted of a 1 16 x 1 x 12 length of stainless steel tape twisted in an anticlockwise direction as viewed from the upstream end of the flowmeter to a pitch of 4 inches. The venturi consisted of a 3 3 4 length venturi section having an entrance and exit diameter of 1 and a throat diameter of 5 8 . The static pressure of the two phase flow was measured downstream of the venturi with an open ended mercury manometer. The D.C. signals from the transducers 17 and 21 were routed to a digital readout, chart recorder and minicomputer not shown . The differential pressure signals recorded on the chart recorder were time averaged over 2 3 minutes. To initially calibrate the flowmeter, the air water stream was injected through the flowmeter at known air and water flowrates, Wg and Wf respectively, in a quality x range of 0.25 to 0.90. Ultimately, the measurements from the venturi, twisted tape and static pressure sensor are to be combined to define any two of the parameters total mass flowrate W , liquid mass flowrate of 2 gas massflowrate W and quality x . g Of course volumetric flowrates can also be calculated. Theoretical models are known to correlate these pressure drop measurements with the above parameters. In this example the twisted tape results were modelled by theLockart Martinelli parameters X 2 and 2 in their following form EMI11.1 where Regt and Reft are Reynold s numbers for the gas and liquid phases respectively Pg and pf are the densities of gas and liquid phases respectively EMI11.2 where AP AL tpt is the pressure drop across the twisted tape DH is the hydraulic diameter of the conduit is is a conversion factor 32.17 lb. ft lbfs 2 A is the cross sectional area of the conduit and f is Fannings friction factor. The results from the venturi were modelled by the following modified Collins parameter Fp and quality x EMI11.3 where D is the inside conduit diameter AP is tulle pressure drop across the venturi and tpv 4 x Wg Wg Wf The flowmeter was first calibrated with known flowrates Wf and W . The pressure transducers 17 and 21 were g calibrated by known techniques using a column of water. The results for the transducer calibrations were modelled by the following linear least squares equations 5 P L tpt 5.0509 x 10 3 x transducer reading 1.1301 x 10 3 and 6 Ptpv 1.8756 x 10 2 x transducer reading 2.1482 x 10 2 . From the measurements of Ptpv . aP AL tpt and the static pressure P5 at a number of known flowrates Wf , W9 , a number of values g of Fp , n, ê and X ê were calculated. The values for Regt n Reft Pg, and Pf were calculated from the values Ps, the static pressure value, although in flows in which these values are assumed to be known the value of P would not be required, S using these results the venturi results were modelled by the linear relationship 7 x m Fp b, and the twisted tape results were modelled by the relationship 8 f 9 B1 B2X B3X 2 g The parameters m, b, B1, B2 and B3 were derived from a least squares analysis for a number of gas mass flowrate, Wg , values. For clari fication purposes these values for Wg , B1 , B2 and B3 , m and b are reproduced in Table 1. TABLE 1 LEAST SQUARES PARAMETERS FOR PHE TWISTED TAPE AND VEN1URI MODELS Twisted Tape Model 2 B1 B2X B3Xê g Venturi Model x mFp b W9 lb hr B1 B2 B3 m b 64.702427 1.75059 16.565439 3.4 1168 0.64927 0.154006 132.4895 0.8729569 35.193932 45.160512 0.560633 0.151019 159.9971 1.108096 38.224306 55.09309 0.537628 0.162189 22.7917 1.16932 40.792134 43.551016 0.554722 0.205751 263.138 1.485076 39.85.1965 24.578145 0.51217 0.178217 A computer program was constructed to utilize these relationships 7 and 8 in a linear interpolation techn ique to evaluate values for the gas and liquid flowrates, W and Wf, for a given set of pressure readings Ps, P L tpt g and AP tpv The computer program utilized is reproduced in Figures 3. By exploiting the W level dependency shown g in Table 1, values for Wf were evaluated for each of equations 7 and 8 . Subsequently, two sets of Wf and Wg values were generated from the venturi and twisted tape equations 7 and 8 . The trend of Wf with respect to W for each set of values was quite different. Thus the g intersection of both sets of data was used to represent the simultanequs solution of the venturi and twisted tape equations 7 and 8 . This intersection was evaluated by applying a linear interpolation for each set of data points. The efficiency of this technique of metering and corre lating is illustrated in Figures 4 and 5 in which the Wf and Wg predicted values are plotted against the Wf and Wg actual values. Accuracy was generally within about 3 for Wg and 6 for Wf. The accuracy of these predictions could be improved if more experimental data were used to decrease the size of the interval which required linear interpolation. Extrapolation beyond the original range used in calibrating the instrument is not advised.