# Method of manufacture of a brake disc.

## Abstract
A brake disc having an outer annular part 12 pres enting friction surfaces 13, 13 in opposite directions, and an inner co axial part 17 which is utilised for securing the disc to a wheel hub. The outer part is formed of cast iron and the inner part is formed from an aluminium alloy cast in situ onto the outer part.

## Claims
Claims r 1. A brake disc having an outer annular part 12 presenting friction surfaces 13 in opposite directions, and an inner co axial part 17 which is utilised for securing the disc to a rotary member, characterised in that the outer part 12 is formed of ferrous metal and the inner part 17 formed of an aluminium alloy and is cast in situ onto the outer part. 2. A disc as claimed in Claim 1, characterised in that the outer annular part 12 has integral inwardly projecting lugs 14 thereon and the inner part 17 is cast onto the lugs which interengage the two parts, and a continual air gap 21 is defined between the two parts 12 and 17 , the air gap 21 being interrupted only by the lugs 14 . 3. A disc as claimed in Claim 2, characterised in that the air gap is not greater than 0.5 mm. 4. A method of manufacture of a brake disc having an outer annular ferrous part presenting friction surfaces in opposite directions, and an inner co axial part for securing the disc to a rotary member, and in which the outer part is formed with integral inwardly projecting lugs thereon characterised in that the inner part is formed from aluminium alloy which is cast onto the outer part when the outer part is cold or tepid, so that when the aluminium subsequently cools a continual gap is formed between the inner and outer parts, the gap being interrupted only by the lugs which secure the two parts together.

## Description
Brake Disc This invention relates to brake discs for use on motor vehicle disc brakes. A problem associated with vehicle disc brakes is that the friction between brake pads and the disc during application of the brakes generates heat in that part of the disc on which its friction surfaces are located and can cause this part of the disc to reach a temperature of about 500 6000C. The heat is then conducted away from the friction surfaces of the disc and may be transferred to the rotary member eg. a wheel hub, on which the disc is secured.In such circumstances the grease in the wheel hub bearing melts and this could cause subsequent failure of the bearing. The object of the present invention is to provide a brake disc in which the above problem is minimized. Accordingly there is provided a brake disc having an outer annular part 12 presenting friction surfaces 13 in opposite directions, and an inner co axial part 17 which is utilised for securing the disc to a rotary member characterised in that the outer part 12 is formed of ferrous metal and the inner part 17 is formed of an aluminium alloy and is cast in situ onto the outer part. Preferably there is a slight air gap 0.5 mm defined between the two parts which is interrupted only by lugs which interengage the two parts. There is also provided a method of manufacture of a brake disc having an outer annular ferrous part presenting friction surfaces in opposite directions, and an inner co axial part for securing the disc to a rotary member, and in which the outer part is formed with integral inwardly projecting lugs thereon, characterised in that the inner part is formed from aluminium alloy which is cast onto the outer part when the outer part is cold or tepid, so that when the aluminium subsequently cools a continual gap is formed between the inner and outer parts, the gap being interrupted only by the lugs which secure the two parts together. The invention will be described by way of example and with reference to the accompanying drawings in which Fig. 1 is an elevation of a brake disc according to this invention showing in one quadrant a section of the line I I of Fig. II and Fig. 2 is a section on the line Il Il of Fig. 1. With reference to Fig. 1 and Fig. 2 a 220 mm diameter brake disc 11 comprises an outer annular part 12 having a pair of friction surfaces 13 thereon which face in opposite directions. The outer annular part 12 is formed from cast iron and has eight radially inwardly projecting lugs 14 integral therewith. The lugs 14 are axially off set towards one friction surface 13t and are utilised for securing an inner part 17 of the disc to the outer part 12. The inner part 17 of the disc is an aluminium alloy casting having an axially extending portion 18 projecting away from the inner periphery of the outer part and a radially extending centre portion 19 at the centre so that the disc resembles a top hat in cross section.The centre portion 19 has holes 20 therein for securing the disc to a rotary member, eg. the wheel hub of a motor car. Between the inner and outer portions 12 and 17 is a continual annular gap 21 which is bridged only by the lugs 14. The gap 21 is produced by casting the inner part 17 in situ onto the outer part 12 and having the outer part cold or tepid when the aluminium is cast thereon. When the casting subsequently cools the different co efficients of thermal expansion of the iron and aluminium cause the aluminium to shrink away from the outer cast iron part 12 to form the gap 21 of about 0.015 0.020 0.35 0.50mm . The size of the gap can be varied by altering the temperature of the outer iron part 12 when the aluminium is cast, ie. the cooler the outer part, the larger the gap 21. The aluminium also contracts axially to grip the lugs 14 and firmly secure the inner and outer parts, 17 and 12 respectively, together. The described brake discs of the herein disclosed invention have been tested under the conditions of E.E.C. Directive 71 320 EEC Annex to paragraph 1 3 Type 1 test for brake fade and have been found to run cooler than for conventional one piece cast iron type brake discs. Also, because the friction surfaces are on a separate outer part 12 to the inner part 17 the teadancy of the disc to distort during braking is lower than for a one piece Stop hatt shaped disc.Further, the presence of the air gap in the preferred embodiment helps reduce brake squeal.