# Adhesives containing sulfonated copolymers or terpolymers.

## Abstract
A solid, elastomeric, copolymer or terpolymer comprises at least 80 percent by weight of at least one acrylate or meth acrylate monomer having from 4 to 12 carbon atoms and a mi nor proportion of a metal or amine neutralized sulfonate mono mer characterised by the formula

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A solid, elastomeric, copolymer or terpolymer comprising at least 80 percent by weight of at least one acrylate or methacrylate monomer having from 4 to 12 carbon atoms and a minor proportion of a metal or amine net ralized sulfonate monomer characterised by the formula EMI15.1 where X is CH2 or aromatic, wherein n 0, 1, 2, 3or4, andY is a cation selected from Groups IA, IIA, IB, and IIB of thePeriodic Table or an amine of the formula EMI15.2 where R1, R2, and R3 are aliphatic groups of C1 to C12 or hydrogen said copolymer or terpolymer being water insoluble and substantiallygel free, and having at least 0.2 weight percent but less than 5 weight percent of chemically combined sulfur. 2. A copolymer or terpolymer according to claim 1, wherein the sulfonate containing monomer is a said metal neutralized sulfonate styrene. 3. A copolymer or terpolymer according to claims 1 or 2 wherein said acrylate monomer is selected from ethylacrylate, 2 ethylhexylacrylate, methylacrylate, n butylacrylate, isodecylacrylate, n butylmethacrylate, 2 ethylhexylmethacrylate and isodecylmethacrylate. 4. A copolymer or terpolymer according to claim 3 wherein the monomer is n butylacrylate or 2 ethylhexylmethacrylate. 5. A terpolymer according to any preceding claim, wherein the termonomer is styrene, acrylonitrile or vinyl chloride. 6 A copolymer or terpolymer according to any preceding claim which is thermally and oxidatively stable. 7. A thermoplastic elastomer composition including a copolymer or terpolymer claimed in any preceding claim.

## Description
SEWDNASD COPOLYMERS oa PEIIPOIIIIMERS The formation of sulfonate containing polymers has been clearly defined in a number of U.S. Patents 3,642,728 3,836,511 3,847,854 3,870,841 and 3,877,530.These patents teach the formation of sulfonate polymers by contacting a polymer having olefinic unsaturation with a sulfonating agent. Copolymers and terpolymers containing sulfonate monomers at low levels have been described previously in the art. For example, U.S. Patent 3,306,871 describes the preparation of latices based on several different vinyl monomers. This prior art is particularly relevant to the instant invention because it distinguishes those features which are characteristic of much of the prior art in the area of metal sulfonate ionomers. Sulfonate ionomers can manifest many peculiarities which make their characterization extremely difficult.The foremost of these is a strong ionic cross linking which makes such materials difficult to dissolve in solution or to achieve melt flow. These techniques are necessary to characterize a polymeric product for subsequent use, as a thermoplastic elastomer or as an oil additive or in similar polymeric applications. The quantification of melt flow properties or selected solution properties, therefore, becomes an extremely important step in order to know whether these ionomeric products are even being prepared in a reproducible fashion, or whether they are suited for selected applications. This particular problem is exacerbated even more when describing copolymers of acrylate monomers and metal or amine sulfonate containing monomers, for in this latter case, the probability of a high degree of covalent cross linking is extremely likely. When concurrent problems of ionic cross linking and covalent cross linking are now combined with problems of uniform copolymers obtained from a relatively non polar hydrocarbon monomer and a highly polar salt molecule which are normally completely immiscible, and the normal problems of molecular weight control desired of all polymer systems, it becomes evident why there is paucity of information concerning the characteristics of the insolated sulfonate ionomers obtained by copolymerization of dienes and metal or amine sulfonate containing monomers.A review of the patent art and the literaturesuggests that a complete characterization of such systems has not often, if ever, been previously attempted. Most of the patent art in this area describes the latices achieved by the presumed reaction of such sulfonate monomers with selected vinyl and diene monomers.That the products are copolymers is presumed by suggestions that the resulting latices are more stable, more water resistant, and more adherent than those obtained in the absence of the sulfonate monomer. The instant invention is directed at a different class of copolymers of acrylates or methacrylates and metal or amine sulfonate containing monomers. This invention is concerned with the preparation and resultant compositions of acrylates or methacrylates and sulfonate monomers which are of desirable molecular weights, are substantially free of covalent cross linking less than 10 percent of the product appears as gel in prescribed tests , contain sulfonate levels of from 0.2 weight percent chemically combined sulfur, up to 5 weight percent chemically combined sulfur, are water insoluble, and are prepared by a process designed to give products substantially free of homopolymers of any of the polymerizable components, and are solid products, characterizable in terms of reduced viscosity, molecular weight and or melt flow at elevated temperatures . G.B. 895,033 patent addresses, specifically, latices based on copolymerization of a suitable aromatic vinyl sulfonic acid derivative with a variety of different polymerizable monomers. It is important to note that all aspects of that invention are solely concerned with the resultant latices, that the products are not described as isolated entities. For the purposes of the instant invention, many of the features of the products in G.B. 895,033 are undesirable. For example, it is emphasized in that application that improved latex stability is an asset, for the purpose of the instant invention that improved latex stability can be a debit in that difficulties may be encountered in isolating the solid polymer. Another feature of the instant invention is that the instant disclosure is directed toward products which are demonstrated to be substantially free of covalent cross linking, and techniques whereby the ionic cross linking desired in such systems can be separated from the covalent cross linking. This demonstration has not been illustrated in the prior art for copolymers of sulfonate containing monomers with polymerizable conjugated diolefins. Without this illustration, it would be difficult, if not impossible, to employ resultant products in some of their intended applications. Finally, and most importantly, U.S. 3,306,871 and GB 895,033 specifically state in column 1, second paragraph of both applications that those inventions were concerned with polymer latices wherein the sulfonic acid salt is incorporated as an anionic stabilizer. It is important to emphasize that, in the instant invention, the sulfonate is incorporated at specific levels to function as an ionic cross linking agent. In these systems the neutralized sulfonate provides a salt species which interacts with other salt species to provide a strong ionic cross link. This characteristic is observed and desired, not in the latex form, but isextremely important in determining the bulk physical properties. It is apparent that the products of this invention differ markedly from those of the prior art in properties, in composition and in their specific structural features. U.S. Patent 3,322,734 teaches that ionically cross linked copolymers may be prepared via direct copolymerization and teaches how such ionic cross linking can change the properties of polymers. However, that patent specifically is directed at neutralization levels of between 10 and 90 percent of the acid species present.The instant invention is directed at neutralization levels of 95 percent and above, and preferably at ionomers which are 100 percent neutralized. The properties of the resulting material which are 100 percent neutralized are substantially different from those which are only 50 percent or 90 percent neutralized. Therefore, the instant invention is substantially different from that of U.S. 3,322,734. U.S. Patent 2,913,429 is concerned with synthetic latices designed to form films which are based on aqueous dispersions of copolymers of one or more aliphatic conjugated diolefins with at least two monovinyl aromatic compounds including a monovinyl aromatic sulfonate. This invention differs from that prior art in the following 1 This application is not concerned with films from latices. 2 That invention contains from 4 to 35, preferably from 5 to 15 weight percent sulfur monomer and thereby provides coatings or films which can readily be removed from substrates by washing or scrubbing with water. Obviously, those cited systems are designed to be water sensitive and thereby removable. 3 That cited patent requires 93 to 25, preferably from 77 to 45 percent vinyl aromatic compound such as styrene. The instant application does not permit more than 10 percent styrene. 4 That invention requires a water soluble peroxy compound as initiator whereas this application requires a hydrocarbon soluble peroxy initiator. 5 The instant invention is directed to copolymers of acrylates and or meth acrylates. There are many other distinctions, but it is obvious that the above invention is directed at essentially rigid removable paint films, wherein the sulfonate groups provide adequate water sensitivity to permit the formation of a stable latex which further can be deposited as a removable film. Nowhere in that invention is the concept of a metal sulfonate copolymer possessing strong ionic cross links in the bulk product taught, inferred, or even desired.GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION The solid elastomeric co or terpolymer of the instant invention comprises at least 80 percent by weight of at least one acrylate or methacrylate monomer having from 4 to 18 carbon atoms and a minor proportion of a metal or amine neutralized sulfonate monomer characterized by the formula EMI5.1 where X is CH2 n, or aromatic wherein n 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, and Y is a cation selected from Groups IA, IIA, IB and IIB of the Periodic Table or an amine of the formula EMI5.2 where R1, R2, and R3 can be aliphatic groups of C1 toC12 or hydrogen, the co or terpolymer being water insoluble having at least 0.2 weight percent sulfur to less than 5 weight percent sulfur chemically combined. The instant invention relates to the formation of sulfonate containing co or terpolymers which are preferably formed by a free radical copolyme r ization process. The monomers used in the free radical emulsion copolymerization processes are acrylates or methacrylates which are copolymerized with sulfonate containing monomers. The acrylate or methacrylate and sulfonate containing monomer are dispersed in a water phase in the presence of an initiator, a water soluble reducing agent, and a suitable surfactant, wherein the temperature is sufficient to initiate polymerization. The resultant latex is coagulated usually by the addition of an aqueous salt solution and the recovered co or terpolymer is washed with water and subsequently dried under vacuum at room temperature. The co or terpolymers formed from the free radical emulsion copolymerization process of the instant invention can be generally described as having a Mn of 5,000 to 200,000. The co or terpolymers of the instant invention contain 0.2 to 5 weight percent of chemically combined sulfur. The co or terpolymers of the instant invention are water insoluble, substantially gel free, thermally stable, and oxidatively stable.Typical, but non limiting examples of the copolymers which can be formed by the instant free radical emulsion copolymerization process are ethyl acrylate potassium styrene sulfonate copolymer, n butyl acrylate potassium styrene sulfonate copolymer, 2 ethyl hexyl methacrylate potassium styrene sulfonate copolymer. A large number of copolymers and even terpolymers can be formed by the instant free radical copolymerization process. Typically, the copolymerization of any acrylate or methacrylate can be readily copolymerized with any sulfonate containing monomer as is defined herein. Terpolymers with styrene, acrylonitrile, vinyl chloride as the termonomers with the aforementioned acrylates are also contemplated, provided that Itss than than 20 weight percent of the termonomer is combined therein.Acrylates or Methacrylates The acrylates of the instant invention are generally defined as acrylates or methacrylate monomers having 2 to 12 carbon atoms. Typical, but non limiting examples of acrylates and methacrylates useful in the instant invention methyl acrylate, ethylacrylate, propylacrylate, n butylacrylate, 2 ethylhexylacrylate, 2 ethyl hexylmethacrylate, isodecyl acryl ate and methylmethacrylates. The preferred monomers are n butylacrylate, 2 ethylhexylmethacrylate, ethylacrylate, 2 ethylhexylacrylate. In the formation of the sulfonate containing copolymer, one copolymerizes one of the aforementioned acrylates or methacrylates with the sulfonate containing monomer.Sulfonate Containing Monomers The sulfonate containing monomers of the instant invention which are water soluble can be generally described as a monomer having unsaturation and a metal or amine sulfonate group. The metal or amine neutralized sulfonate monomer is characterized by the formula EMI7.1 where X is aromatic or CH2 n, where n 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, and Y is a cation selected from Groups IA, IIA, IB and IIB of the Periodic Table of an amine of the formula EMI7.2 where R1, R2, and R3 can be aliphatic groups of C1 toC12 or hydrogen. Particularly suitable metal cations are sodium, potassium, and zinc, and an especially preferred metal cation is sodium.Typical but non limiting examples of suitable sulfonate containing monomers are 1 CH2 CHSO3 Na sodium vinyl sulfonate 2 CH2 CHCH2S03 Na sodium allyl sulfonate EMI8.1 sodium styrene sulfonate An especially preferred sulfonate containing monomer is metal sulfonated styrene. The molar ratio of sulfonate containing monomer to acrylate or methacrylate monomer is 1 200 to 1 5. A redox emulsion polymerization recipe used in this invention is effective in initiating the copolymerization of water insoluble and water soluble comonomers in an emulsion system. The surface of the micelle growing polymer particle is believed to be the locus of formation of initiator molecules as well as the polymerization locus. Water phase homopolymerization of the polar, water soluble monomer is effectively depressed because of low primary radical concentration in the aqueous phase. Similarly, the activity of the free radical catalyst in the hydrocarbon monomer phase is substantially less than in the vicinity of the reducing agent. As a result the polymerization of homopolymers is believed to be effectively depressed. Reducing agents suitable for this invention are those known in the art with the additional requirement that they be soluble in water. A preferred reducing agent is triethylenetetramine. A variety of free radical catalysts can be employed in this invention. This includes a preferential class of free radical initiators such as benzoyl peroxide, cumene peroxide, diisopropylbenzene hydroperoxide, t butyl hydroperoxide and similar systems which will be preferentially soluble in the monomer phase as opposed to the aqueous phase. There are a large number of such peroxides used in the art and those having the appropriate solubility behavior and suitable decomposition temperatures in the presence of the reducing agents are satisfactory for the purposes of this invention. Also a large number of water soluble initiators can be employed in this invention. A variety of such systems are known and are employed as red ox initiators. A preferred catalyst system is potassium persulfate and sodium bisulfite.Others can also be employed. The non ionic surfactants employed for this invention are varied and well known in the art. The typical emulsifiers or surfactants can be employed however, some are more effective than others in generating latices of better stability. A preferred emulsifier is Atlox 89l6TF. The choice of the emulsifier is not critical. The buffering agents employed in the instant polymerization process are selected from the group consisting of sodium carbonate, ammonia, sodium acetate, trisodium phosphate, etc. These buffering agents are typically employed at a concentration of about 0.1 to about 5 grams per 100 grams water employed in the emulsion system. Chain transfer agents can be readily employed in the instant polymerization process for controlling the molecular weight of the resultant copolymer. The concer tration of chain transfer agent is from 0 to 1.0 grams per 100 grams of the combined weight of the sulfonate containing monomer and the acrylate or methacrylate monomer. The free radical emulsion copolymerization of the water soluble sulfonate containing polymer and the acrylate or methacrylate monomer yields a stable latex, wherein the resultant water insoluble copolymer is not covalently cross linked and possesses substantial ionic cross linking, and has 0.2 to 5 weight percent of chemically combined sulfur, more preferably 0.5 to 3. The resultant latex can be coagulated by the addition of an aqueous salt solution to the emulsion at a volume ratio of the aqueous salt solution to total volume of the emulsion of 10 to 0.5. The water insoluble copolymer is recovered by filtration and subsequently washed with water and dried under vacuum conditions. Alternatively, the polymer can be coagulated by precipitation with alcohol such as methanol. Alternatively, the latex can be used to form ionically cross linked films by evaporation to dryness. While there is a wide spectrum of polymers which can be prepared via this invention, it is important to emphasize that the properties of these polymers will be much different from those polymers not possessing ionic associations. In addition, the properties of these sulfonate copolymers are very dependent on the type of acrylate or methacrylate contained in this polymer. While the properties of this family of polymers is well known to be dependent on the length of the alkyl group in the acrylate or methacrylate ester group, the difference in the current family of polymers goes beyond this widely known characteristic. The presence of a metal or amine neutralized sulfonate group in the polymer backbone promotes strong ionic association. The nature, extent and consequences of this association is very dependent on the polarity of the polymer backbone.For example, an ethylacrylate backbone and a 2 ethyl hexylacrylate copolymer with sodium styrene sulfonate as the ionic moiety, can give quite different results in terms of the ionic association. In the case of the ethylacrylate, the more polar backbone can result in greater interaction with the ionic group and thereby weaken the ionic associations. In the case of the lesser polar monomer, stronger ionic associations can prevail with some important technological differences. The difference of this degree of ionic interaction with the polymer backbone can be labeled a form of internal plasticization. As such, differences in polymer solubility, tensile properties, etc., can result. These unexpected results are one consequence of this family of acrylate or methacrylate copolymers with sulfonate monomers. The uses for these copolymers are varied and extensive. Selected compositions of n butyl acrylate sulfonate copolymers and similar systems are as thermoplastic elastomers being elastomeric and thermoplastic sin nature. These materials are also useful as adhesive, both hot melt and pressure sensitive water based coatings, films, hydrocarbon viscosifiers and coatings.DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS As exemplified in the following illustrativeExamples, a series of copolymers were prepared. EXAMPLES 1 to 5 Ethyl, n butyl and 2 ethyl hexyl 2, 3, 4 acrylate and potassium styrene sulfonate KSS copolymerize readily. All of the experiments have been done under emulsion conditions using a non ionic surfactant, as shown in Table I only butyl acrylate data shown . The data inTable I indicate high conversions of reasonably stable latex can be achieved under practical conditions. Thermal analysis studies DSC have now been conducted on several of the copolymers and are summarized in Table II. It is interesting to note that the acrylate Tg is unchanged over the range potassium styrene sulfonate uninvestigated.This, of course, is evidence for the presence of a second ionomeric phase. The copolymers can be quite strong and extensible, as shown in Table III. These preliminary data were obtained by compression molding at l700C. Example 1 represents the homopolymer of n butylacrylate, while Example 5 represents the homopolymer of sodium styrene sulfonate. The tensile stress at break for the poly n butyl acrylate is less than 8 kg. per cm2 while the sulfonate copolymers have tensile strengths as much as 5000 greater. Similarly, the reduction in elongation with increasing sulfonate content is a measure of the ionic cross linking of these polymers. The fact that these materials can be compression molded, and yet retain good elastomeric properties, as well as high tensile strengths, shows that they are excellent candidates as thermoplastic elastomers. TABLE I PREPARATION OF n BUTYLACRYLATE AND SULFONATED STYRENE COPOLYMERS N BUAC a SST b ATLOX 8916TF K2S2O8 NaHSO3 H2O Example No. parts parts parts parts parts parts 1 10.0 1.901 0.402 0.0335 0.0147 30 10 2 10.0 0.400 0.0340 14 8 3 10.0 1.006 0.419 0.0360 0.0141 30 10 4 10.0 0.508 0.430 0.0305 0.0146 30 10 5 2.070 0.0135 20 Amount of SST Rx Temp. d Time YieldExample No. mole wt. meq 100 gr c C hr. wt. 1 9.8 16.0 71.6 60 5.5 93.4 2 60 19 84.7 3 5.5 9.1 41.0 65 9 93.2 4 2.8 4.8 21.0 65 9 95.1 5 100 100 449.8 60 23 97.3 Second quantity added after 1 hour. a n butyl acrylate b sodium styrene sulfonate c millequivalents per 100 grams polymer, as sulfonic acid groups. d Rx temperature reaction temperature TABLE II THERMAL ANALYSIS OF n BUTYLACRYLATE AND SULFONATED STYRENE COPOLYMERS BY DSC SSTExample No. mole Tg C 1 Tg C 2 Remarks 1 50 2 9.8 50 Started to decompose about 320 C 3 5.5 50 4 2.8 50 5 100 329 Started to decompose above 420 C Heating Rate 10 deg min. TABLE III STRESS STRAIN DATA OF SULFONATED STYRENE BUTYL ACRYLATE COPOLYMERS Initial length of samples 10.0 mm Crosshead speed 10.0 mm min Test temperature 25 C SST Yield Str. Str. at Break ElongSample mole mm kg cmê kg cmê at break 1 65 14.9 7.87 650 2 2.8 54 69.6 57.0 540 3 5.5 47 381 345 470 4 9.8 32 238 411 320