# ARTICULATED STRUCTURE FOR SUPPORTING LOADS

## Abstract
A base for supporting a load defines a first articular con cave spherical surface segment forming a first socket about an axis extending through the center of curvature of the surface segment. The socket is nested with a first mating articular con vex spherical surface segment forming a first ball segment joint to a load carrying platform. A first strip of low friction bearing material is seated in a first recess encircling the axis at the perimeter of the first socket to support the first ball seg ment. The side of the first ball segment facing away from the first socket defines a second articular concave spherical sur face segment forming a second socket. A second mating arti cular convex spherical surface segment forming a second ball segment joined to a retaining member is nested in the second socket. A second strip of low friction bearing material is seated in a second recess encircling the axis at the perimeter of the second ball to support the second ball segment. A circular hub with a key at one side thereof extends along the axis from the center of the second ball segment and through an elongated aperture formed in first ball segment to a mating seat and key way formed at the center of the first socket. The key and key way lock the base and retaining member together against rela tive movement. The elongated aperture pemits the load carry ing platform to move relative to the hub in the directions along the long dimension of the aperture and above the axis. Stops are located to limit the movement of the load carrying member in the permitted directions.