# A pharmaceutical composition for enhancing keratinogenesis and reducing facial and scalp seborrhea.

## Abstract
Spherules of gelatin of the soft type containing cystin as activating substance, are used for stimulating and impro ving the keratinogenesis and reducing the seborrhoea of the face and of the scalp, by effect of a synergic activity of the components.

## Claims
Claims 1. Medicinal preparation for promoting the keratinogenesis and reducing the seborrhoea of the face and of the scalp, in the form of solid and homogeneous spherules for oral administration of soft gelatin of the composition of 65 to 80 Qo by weight of Gelatinum and 25 to 30 by weight of glycerin or sorbitol, which preparation is characterized by the fact that said spherules contain furthermore 20 to 25 by weight of levo cystin with respect to the total weight of the preparation, as an activating agent, for a daily administration of about 2 g of gelatin and about 800 mg of levo cystin. 2. The preparation according to claim 1, wherein said spherules have the following composition by weight Gelatinum 57 z glycerin or sorbitol 20 levo cystin 23 z 3. The preparation according to claim 1 or 2, wherein each spherule has a total weight of about 880 mg and the dose of administration is of 4 spherules a day. 4. The preparation according to any of the preceding claims, further comprising edulcorant and dyeing additives pharmaceutically compatible. 5. The use of spherules of soft gelatin in association with levo cystin intimately dispersed in the spherules of gelatin, in order to promote the keratinogenesis and reduce the seborrhoea of the face and of the scalp, in a proportion by weight of 65 to 80 t of Gelatinum, 25 to 30 in weight of glycerin or sorbitol and 20 to 25 in weight of levo cystin.

## Description
Medicinal formulation for promoting keratinogenesis and reducing the seborrhoea of the face and scaly.This invention refers to a medicinal preparation having the object of promoting keratinogenesis, that is of reinforcing the formation of hair and nails as well as reducing seborrhoea of the skin of the face and of the scalp.Gelatin denominated officially in the official Pharmacopoeia F.U. Gelatin or according to the international denomination Gelatinum is a known substance which is used, particularly, for the production of medicinal capsules.The use is also known, especially in the pharmaceutical industry, of capsules made of gelatin so called soft which are used as containers of various pharmaceutical active principles. Such capsules, known in fact as soft gelatin capsules, are produced with a particular process of fusion completely automatic and continuous known as theScherer method rotary die process as described, for example, in U.S. patents 2318718, 2356436, 2333433, 2379816, 2379817, 2451141, or through other methodologies.Such process involves melting of the gelatin with glycerin, sorbitoland other substances suitable for improving its physical properties, in order to obtain as final product a unity of soft gelatin as is well known in the art.During or after melting, gelatin may be also additioned with other active principles proteins, amino acids, mineral salts, vitamins, etc. thermally stable at 700C.It is also known that it is possible to produce noticeable modifications in proteins having a high sulphur content, enrichening the diet of sheep with cystein or with sulphured amino acids. To this end see Reis P.J.and Schinckel P.G. 1963 Aust. J. Biol. Sci. 16, 218 Reis P.J. 1965 Aust. J. Biol. Sci. 18, 671 GillespieJ. M. Broad A. and Reis P.J. 1969 Biochem. J. 112,41 Broad A., Gillespie J.M. and Reis P.J. 1970 Aust. J.Biol. Sci. 23,149 Frenkel M., Gillespie J.M. and ReisP.J. 1974 Aust. J. Biol. Sci. 27,31.Adding also collagen gelatins to the diet it is possible to see a further increase of the keratinic fraction having a high sulphur content Gillespie J.M., Reis J.P.and Schinckel P.G. 1964 Aust. J. Bicl. Sci. 17, 532.It is equally known how the oral assumption of gelatin increases significantly the degree of hardness of nails solving problems of nail fragility see for exampleThyson T.T. 1950 J. Invest. Dermatol, 14, 323 .The surprising effect which gelatin has been found to have on keratinogenesis seems to be attributable to a specific dynamic action carried out by the high percentage of glycin it contains s,ee Michaelson J.B.and Huntsman D. 1963 J. Soc. Cosmet. Chem. 14, 443.The observation also seems to have a certain importance, that the protein chains of the gelatin are formed by amino acids present in the same proportions and arranged in a similar way with respect to corresponding amino acids of the keratins, with the only exception of cystin.In the description and claims according to the invention, the term cystin is exclusively intended as the form of levo cystin, with the exclusion of the optically isomeric form of the dextro cystin.On the other hand Bigwood E.J. and Robazza F. 1955 have found in the hair of african children affected byKwashiorkor, a level of cystin below that of other healthy children which live in the same area see Bigwood E.J.and Robazza F. 1955 Voeding 87, 251 .It has been later observed tiat hyponutntion delays the rythm of growth, the diameter and resistance to tension of the hair of pigs the diet of which had been modified in order to obtain marasmatic and Kwashiorkorlike conditions see Cabak V., Gresham G.A. and McCance R.A. 1962 Brit. J. Nitr. 16, 635 .Finally, in the recent years it has been clearly shown that the relative type and proportions of the proteins forming the corneous keratins take upa decisive role in determining certain mechanical properties. In fact, while the principal factor of stabilization of the keratinic structures of hair and human nails is represented by the disulfide bridges and therefore by the presence of proteins having a high content in cystin, proteins should not be neglected of the matrix rich in glycerin and tyrosin which, although present in human hair in small quantities, seem to contribute in a significant way in the stability and resistance of the keratinic structures of several animals see BenditE.G. and Gillespie J.M. 1978 Biopolymers 17, 2743 . The sebonormalizing action is also known as well as the elective stimulating action carried out by the cystin in keratinization processes of the hairy structures, which. therefore result all the more resistant the higher their cystin content is. In fact, due to its sebo regulating action and due to its action which controlsthe keratinization of the skin and nails and stimulates the growth of hair, cystin is used in the treatment of various stages of alopecia, in seborrhoic conditions in general, in the onicodistrophies and in the nail and hair fragility in doses from 1 to 2 g a day. It has now been discovered according to the invention that solid spherules of gelatin produced according to the Scherer method and therefore formed by gelatin rand glycerin or sorbitol, added with a certain quantity of cystin, orally administered in daily doses comprising about 800 mg of cystin in 2 g of gelatin, have an improving and stimulating effect on keratinogenesis and at the same time, reducing the seborrhoea both of the face and of the scalp.According to the invention this effect is due to the association of soft gelatin with cystin, offering results which are superior to those yielded by presently available formulations which contain only gelatin or only cystin, or which contain both in different proportions. In fact, today formulations do not exist on the market which are formed by so called soft gelatin which contain also cystin and it will be noticed that the doses indicated by the available literature in order to obtain the desired effects are much higher 3 to 6 g of gelatin per day or 1 to 2 g per day of cystin with respect to the dose according to the formulation of the present invention which contains oniy 2 g of soft gelatin and 800 mg of cystin, to be administered a day.The fact should be particularly pointed out that cystin which forms the activating agent is not contained in the gelatin in the usual way in which the active principles are contained in normal gelatin capsules, but the levo cystin is distributed in a homogeneous way in a solid spherule, with no cavity, in the indicated proportions.According to the invention in fact the intimate distribution of the cystin within the mass of soft gelatin ensures a particularly favorable oral absorption, so that it is possible to reduce the doses of active substances with respect to the doses established by the prior art for the indicated pharmaceutical use. To the end of demonstrating the synergical effect of the ingestion of cystin and gelatin through administration of soft gelatin capsules, experiments have been carried out on rats in which the condition of sufference of the air was induced by means of a biotine free diet. It is in fact known how the alimentary insufficiency of biotin induces, in the rat, the formation of a seborrhoic clinical condition, characterized by the increase of the sebaceous secretion and by the fall of the hairs. In order to have a direct comparison, said rats have been successively treated in different lots, with diets added respectively with gelatin, cystin, gelatin cystin in mechanical mixture. and gelatin cystin in soft spherules.Experimental test 1Methods and materials.60 lYhistar rats were employed of both sexes 30 males and 30 females of the average weight of 150 g 9.Following the Kalopissis et al methodology U.S. patentNo. 3629452 50 rats were kept on a biotin free diet for about 40 days until the development was obtained of an evident seborrhoic clinical condition, while the remaining 10 served as controls. After obtaining the desired clinical condition with the development of seborrhoea and loss of hair in various zones, the 50 rats were subdivided into five groups of 10 rats each and treated as follows 1st group biotin free diet added with cystin 2nd group biotin free diet added with gelatin 3rd group biotin free diet added with cystin and gelatin in mechanical mixture 4th group biotin free diet added with the mixture of gelatin cystin melted in soft spherules 5th group biotin free diet 6th group control.The diets were administered weekly in the cages of the rats in accurately weighed quantity so that the rats, kept in single cages, would ingest together with the feed, respectively 1st group 84 mg per kg a.week of cystin 2nd group 203 mg per kg a week of gelatin from collagen 3rd group 84 mg per kg a week of cystin and 203 mg per kg a, week of gelatin 4th group 280 mg per kg a week of the melted mixture of gelatin cystin composted of 79.8 mg of .cystin and 203.2 mg of gelatin.After three weeks of treatment and after taking about 200 mg of hairs per rat, all the animals, included the controls, are.sacrificed in a chloroform saturated environment in order to control their skin total lipids and in order to carry out possible histological and bioptic examinations.Determination of the sulphur content of the hairs.The hairs of all the animals about 100 mg , accurately deterged with alcohol and ethyl. ether, and dried, are used for the determination of the total sulphur carried out by titration according to the McDonald methodology McDonald A.M.G. 1959 Industr. Chem. 35, 33 . The results expressed as sulphur percentage with respect to the dried weight of the hairs, are given in table 1.Determination of the total lipids.Immediately after sacrificing the animals, dorsal samples of skin were taken, which, freed from the paniculus adiposus, have been used both for the determination of the total lipids as well as for the histochemical studies. The content of the total lipids was determined gravi metrically through the difference in weight of the sample before and after the extraction in Soxhlet with acetone for 10 days and further drying out in vacuum on P 205 and paraffin for 24 hours. The values, expressed in percentage, are listed in table 1. Table 1Effects on the skin and hairs of the rats kept on a biotin poor diet.Group Number Biotin Additive Total Number of Sulphur content Number of of speci poor lipides determi x g hair, determi mens diet nation nationsI 10 Yes Levo crystin 38.1 2.987 30 2.48 0.066 20II 10 Yes Gelatin 43.5 3.005 30 2.44 0.08 20III 10 Yes Levo crystin 35.8 2.796 30 2.74 0.062 20 and gelatinIV 10 Yes Levo crystin 26.9 3.111 30 3.19 0.075 20 and gelatinV 10 Yes 46.2 3.102 30 2.32 0.067 20VI 10 Yes 29.7 3.015 30 3.90 0.081 20 P 0.05 versus group VI controls . mechanical mixture. mixture obtained by melting according to the Scherer process. Comments and results.As it can be seen from table 1, in the rats kept on a biotin poor diet it is possible to notice a reduction of the sulphur in the hairs of about 15 and a global increase of the total lipids of the skin of about 50t. If furthermore the data are observed relating to the individual treatments, it may be clearly seen how the oral assumption of the cystin alone 12 mg kg die causes, in the biotin poor rats, an increase of the total sulphur of the hair of about 7 P0.05 and a reduction of the total lipids of the skin of about 15 P 0.05 . The oral assumption of gelatin alone, on the contrary, while raising the sulphur content of the hairs of about 5 P 0.05 does not cause any reduction of the lipidic condition of the skin of the biotin poor rats.Furthermore the combined action of the cystin and gelatin, which, added in the diet, demonstrates to posses a synergic action of stimulation both with regard to the keratinogenesis as well as to the lipogenesis,appears also very interesting. In fact both the increase found at the level of the total sulphur in the hair and the reduction of the lipids in the skin in rats fed on a biotin poor diet with levo cystin and gelatin, appears to be greater than the summation of the action obtained singularly both with the levo cystin and the gelatin.Such action synergism increases noticeably if the simple mechanical mixture is substituted with the same mixture obtained by melting through the Scherer process. In fact, at equal concentration both of cystin and of gelatin, almost a doubling is observed of the action demonstrated both at the keratinogenesis and lipogenesis level. Experimental test 2The elective stimulating action has also been verified on rats, performed especially by the gelatin cystin,in the keratinization processes of the hairy structures, verifying the average content of sulphur and cystin of the hairs. of rats kept on a normal diet and respectively of rats kept on a biotin poor diet, fed respectively only with gelatin, only with cystin and with the association of gelatin cystin both in the form of mechanical mixture in hard capsules, and iq the form melted in soft spherules. Materials and methods 110 Whistar rats of both sexes were employed 55 males plus 55 females of the average weight of 150 g 9, divided in two lots of respectively 60 lot I and 50 lot II rats each. Following the Kalopissis andManoussos methodology already quoted in test 1, 50 rats of lot I were kept on a biotin poor diet for about 40 days until the appearance was induced of an evident seborrhoic clinical condition, while the remaining 10 served as controls.After having obtained the desired clinical condition with the appearance of seborrhoea and. loss of hairs in several zones, the 60 rats were divided into six groups of 10 rats each and treated as follows 1st group normal laboratory diet controls 2nd group biotin free diet 3rd group biotin free diet added wth cystin 4th group biotin free diet added with gelatin 5th group biotin free diet added with cystin and gelatin in mechanical mixture hard capsules 6th group biotin free diet added with melted mixture of gelatin cystin soft spherules .The diets prepared specifically by a specialized firm were administered weekly in the cages of the rats, in accurately weighed quantity so that the rats, kept in single cages, would ingest together with the feed, respectively 1st group normal diet 2nd group biotin BC poor diet 3rd group diet BC 84 mg per kg weekly of cystin 4th group diet BC 203 mg per kg weekly of gelatin FU 5th group diet BC 84 mg per kg weekly of cystin and 203 mg per kg weekly of gelatin FU hard capsules 6th group diet BC 280 mg per kg weekly of the melted mixture of gelatin cystin composed of 79.8 mg of cystin and of 200.2 mg of gelatin soft spherules . After six weeks of treatment and after having taken about 1 g of hairs per rat, all the animals included the controls are sacrificed in a chloroform saturated ambient.The 50 rats of the second lot normal rats, not subjected previously to a biotin poor diet , divided into five groups of 10 rats each, have been fed respectively with 1st group normal laboratory diet DN controls 2nd group DN cystin 3rd group DN gelatin FU 4th group DN gelatin and cystin in mechanical mixture hard capsules 5th group DN gelatin and cystin previously melted together soft spherules .The quantity of the feed placed in the cages was calculated in such a way that the rats would ingest the same quantity per kg of cystin, FU gelatin or gelatin cystin already described above.After 150 days of treatment the rats, under ether anaesthesia, were partially depilated with a razor.Determination of the sulphur content of the hairs.A part of the hairs about 100 mg of all the animals of the two groups, accurately deterged with alcohol and ethyl ether and dried, are used for the determination of the total sulphur carried out by means of titration, according to the previously mentioned McDonald methodology.The results expressed as percentage of sulphur with respect to the dried weight of the hairs, are listed in tables 2 and 3.Determination of the cystin content in the hairs.After having hydrolized the hairs of all the animals about 800 mg previously deterged as already described, the quantity was determined of cystin using the autoanalyzer. The results expressed as g 100 g of hairs are listed in tables 2 and 3.Determination and isolation of the proteins in the hair.The extraction of the total cheratins of the hairs was carried out with the method of the urea thioglycolate according to the method described in Gillespie J.M., ReisP.J. and Schinckel P.G. 1964 Aust. J. Biol. Sci. 17, 548.After determining from one portion the total keratin total proteins , the keratin fraction at high sulphur content is separated through alkylation with iodo acetate, dialysis and precipitation of the protein at low sulphur content with zinc acetate at pH 6. The total sulphur was determined on the protein fraction rich in sulphur according to the already mentioned McDonald methodology.The results are listed in tables 2 and 3. Table 2Variation of the proteic content of the cheratins of biotin poor rats fed on a gelatincrystin enriched diet.Treatment Sulphur Crystin Total Sulphur rich Sulphur contained in content content proteins proteic fraction the sulphur rich proteic fraction, Normal diet control 3.90 0.081 12.0 1 90 1 24 2 5.9 0.2Biotin poor 2.32 0.07 8.0 0.5 91 2 17 1 3.3 0.03 diet BC BC levo crystin 2.48 0.07 9.3 0.6 90 1 20 1 3.9 0.05BC gelatin 2.44 0.08 9.1 0.8 90 1 18 0.5 3.6 0.04BC levo crystin gelatin 2.74 0.06 10.3 0.5 91 2 27 1 4.3 0.05BC levo crystin gelatin 3.19 0.07 12.0 0.8 90 1 28 1 4.9 0.08 P 0.05 versus normal diet. Table 3Varations in the composition of keratin of the hairs of rats fed on a gelatin cystin enriched diet.Treatment Sulphur Cystin Sulphur rich Sulphur contained in the content content keratin sulphur rich keratin Normal diet DN 3.3 0.1 11.8 0.5 21.0 0.5 4.7 0.1 DN levo cystin 84 mg kg weekly 3.6 0.1 13.8 0.6 25.9 0.5 5.1 0.2 DN gelatin 203 mg kg weekly 3.1 0.1 11.5 0.5 23.9 0.6 4.5 0.1 DN gelatin cystin 203 84 mg kg weekly , hard capsules 3.8 0.2 14.3 0.5 31.7 0.5 5.5 0.2 DN gelatin cystin 280 mg kg weekly , 4.2 0.2 15.5 0.6 32.5 0.6 6.1 0.2 soft spherules P 0.05 versus normal diet. Comments and resultsFrom table 2 it can be seen how between the group of rats on the biotin poor diet and the control group significant differences can be seen P 0.05 at all levels. In fact, the lack of biotin causes in the rat a reduction of the total sulphur present in the hair of about 50 . Such reduction, considering the analytical difficulties, seems to be totally due to a corresponding decrease in the content of cystin about 43t P 0.05 .It is interesting to notice furthermore how the recuction both of the sulphur and of the cystin is accompanied by a noticeable reduction about 50 of the protein fraction so called rich at sulphur present essentially, as known, in the matrix of the hair. As the rats are gradually fed with the diet enriched with cystin and the mixture of gelatin cystin,a significant protein increase noticeable at the level of the protein fraction of the matrix of the hair is noticed. The protein increase is accompanied always by a corresponding increment in cystin. Observing the data concerning the rats lacking biotin fed respectively with gelatin, cystin and cystin gelatin both in the form of hard capsules and of soft spherules it is proven that the alimentary enrichment witn gelatin alone, in the dosages employed, while it does not seem to be able of bringing significant improvements in the global mass of parameters taken into.consideration, if administered together with cyst in, it boosts its activity in a substantial way. In fact, while the addition in the diet of cystin alone increases the parameters taken into consideration, the alimentary enrichment with gelatin cystin seems to be able practically to bring back to normal the values related to the matrix keratins fraction rich at sulphur and of the cystin of the hair itself. The gelatin cystin administered in the pharmaceutical form of soft spherules premelting of the gelatin cystin seems to be able also to further increase the incorporation of the cystin at the level of the matrix of the hair,may be due to the different bioavailability proven by such pharmaceutical form.From the data concerning normal rats fed for a long period 20 weeks with diets enriched with gelatincystin and mixture of the two table 3 a progressive increase is immediately seen of the sulphur, of the cystin and of the keratin fraction rich in sulphur of the matrix of the hair. An increment is obtained in fact of the keratin fraction rich in sulphur which ranges from 10 for the rats fed with only gelatin to 50 for the rats fed with the association of gelatin and cystin administered in the form of soft spherules.It seems therefore clear that the increase of the cystin which can be found in the hair of rats fed with a diet enriched with gelatin cystin is due especially to the increase of the proteins of the matrix of the hair. The gelatin, probably due to its high content in glycin, seems to be capable of increasing noticeably the incorporation of the cystin in the keratin fraction rich in sulphur of the matrix of the hair. Such increase appears to be greater, furthermore depending on the pharmaceutical form used probably due to a different bioavailability of the feed itself. In fact, as it can be seen from table 2, the major content of cystin has been found in the hair of rats fed with the enriched diet with the association of gelatin and cystin in the form of soft spherules premelted mixture .Such diet has caused also the major increment both of the protein fraction rich in sulphur 50t as well of the cystin which can be found in the hair 33 of the rats treated with respect to the controls P 0.05 .Experimental test 3Experimental test on humans.To the end of verifying the possible stimulating selective action performed by glycin and gelatin in the keratinizing processes of the hairy structures, a study has been conducted in order to control the possible beneficial effect deriving from enrichment of the human diet with gelatin and cystin in well defined proportions.Materials and methods.40 voluntary Italian people have been selected having dark hair, suffering from a Effluvium capillitii, of both sexes and of ages between 20 and 40. All voluntary patients received, through the double blind technique, a bottle containing spherules of gelatin cystin productA or spherules of placebo product B . Before beginning the experimentation and after 24 hours from the last time the hair had been washed, the number was checked with an illuminated magnifying glass of the follicular orifices sites and the number of hairs fibers emerging from each site, carrying out the count in a well defined area 1 cm x 1 cm between the rear vertex VP and the front vertex VA ,according to theMoretti subdivision Moretti G., Baccaredda Boy A. andRebora A. 1969 in W. Montagna and R.L.Dobson Advances in Biology of the Skin , Vol. IX, Hair Grow ,Pergamon Press, Oxford, page 538 .Methodology of the count.The count of the sites and fibers has been carried out using a small transparent perspex ruler of 10 cm in 2 length with a center opening of the width of 1 cm according to the Cottington et al J. Soc. Cosmet. Chem.28, 219 methodology, during a period of 3 months.Furthermore, before beginning the treatment, about 200 mg of hair in the area near the counting point had been sampled from all voluntary patients, cutting the sample just barely above the scalp with a well sharpened scissors. During the treatment period the voluntary patients have always used the same shampoo also avoiding the cutting of the hair.Determination of sulphur and free thiols.After having calculated the mean thickness according to the Cottington methodology already mentioned, about 100 mg of the sample hair, previously cleansed with alcohol and ethyl ether, are used to determine the quantity of total sulphur according to the already mentionedMcDonald methodology. On the remaining integral portion about 100 mg the total number of free thiols is determined amperometrically. During the three months of treatment, the voluntary patients took during normal meals four spherules a day of the alimentary supplement, equal, for the A product, to 2 g of gelatin and 800 mg of cystin a day, and for the B product, to about 100 mg of gelatin and 300 mg of starch.The results are listed in table 4. Table 4Effects on the hair of gelatin cystin after a three months treatment.Treatment Medium Medium Medium In Medium In Sulphur In Medium Re fibers sites fibers crease diameter crease content crease content duc per cmê per cmê per sites m x g hair free tion thiols m x g hairGelatin before cystin 155.3 48 84.2 15 1.84 0.49 61.5 5.4 3.82 0.08 251 30 49.4 35 26.7 62.9 after 270.6 37 98.5 17 2.75 0.21 83.2 8.1 4.84 0.10 93 15Placebo before 167.5 33 79.3 16 2.11 0.63 67.3 8 3.91 0.11 192 25 after 174.0 39 82.9 20 2.09 0.37 61.0 10 3.74 0.12 173 19 P 0.05 P 0.005 insignificant Results and comments As it can be seen from table 4 the average increase of fibers sites is equal to about. 50 with P 0.05.This means that the average of the hairs emerging from the follicular orifices themselves sites are doubled within 3 months in those individuals subjected to a diet enriched with gelatin cystin. As a matter of fact those patients fed with placebo product B have undergone noSimilar results have emerged also with regard both to the total sulphur content, which increases by about 27t P 0.35 , and of the free thiols present on the integral hair, for which a decrease is seen of over 60 P 0.005 . The experimental test demonstrates that the preparation according to the invention may be employed in the human therapy for the cure of hair suffering due to loss of same or to seborrhoea.According to the invention it was found that very satisfactory results are obtained with spherules produced through the Scherer method having the following composition of percentage by weight gelatin 50 60 t glycerin or sorbitol 18 23 cystin 20 25 z The following composition is particularly preferred gelatin 57 glycerin . 20 cystin 23 The soft gelatin per se has the following composition in percentage by weight gelatin 55 8 0 glycerin or sorbitol 23 30 The preferred composition being gelatin 73.5 glycerin 26.5 t It should be particularly noted that the cystin which constitutes the activating agent is not contained in the gelatin ih the usual way in which the active principles are contained in normal capsules of gelatin, but the cystin is distributed in a homogeneous way in a solid spherule, having no cavity, in the indicated proportions.According to the invention, in fact the intimate distribution of the cystin in the mass of soft gelatin ensures a particularly favorable oral absorption.Preferably each spherule will have a total weight of about 900 mg, in which the active substances are subdivided in the following way gelatin 450 to 550 mg glycerin or sorbitol 160 to 200 mg cystin 180 to 220 mgIn a particularly preferred embodiment, each spherule contains gelatin 500 mg glycerin or sorbitol 180 mg cystin 200 mgThe daily oral dose considered is of 4 spherules a day, so that the total daily dosage appears to be about 2 g of gelatin and 800 mg. of cystin. It is further obvious that the spherules of gelatin may contain other pharmaceutically compatible additives, such as edulcorants, dyes, vitamins, mineral elements, natural extracts and the like, as long as they are thermally stable at 700C.The gelatin spherules may be produced through melting of the gelatin itself with glycerin, sorbitol or other substances suited to improve the physical properties according to the Scherer method or through similar methodologies which yield as a final product homogeneous units of soft gelatin of any whatsoever form and color.