# Partially esterified and partially neutralized alkyl succinic anhydride resins and their use in printing inks.

## Abstract
The invention provides a process for the preparation of resins for printing inks in which an alkyl succinic anhydride resin is partially esterified with a polyhydroxy compound containing at least two methylol groups and at least one phenolic hydroxyl group in the molecule together with a C₄ C₁₂ alkyl group and subsequently partial neutralization is effected with a reactive compound of a metal of Group II of the Periodic Table.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Process for preparing a resin suitable for printing inks comprising partial esterification of an alkyl succinic anhydride resin with an average molecular weight of 800 2,000 with a polyhydroxy compound containing at least two methylol groups per molecule, at least one phenolic hydroxyl group and one C4 C12alkyl group and subsequent neutralization of at least part of the residual carboxyl groups with a reactive compound of a metal of Group 11 of the Periodic Table. 2. Process according to claim 1, in which the alkyl succinic anhydride resin is the addition product of maleic anhydride and a hydrocarbon resin substantially based on vinyl aromatic compounds. 3. Process according to claim 1 or 2, in which the polyhydroxy compound is a resole type reaction product of formaldehyde and an alkyl phenol. 4. Process according to claim 3, in which the phenol is a para C4 C12 monoalkyiphenol. 5. Process according to claim 1, in which 0.5 to 2 equivalents of polyhydroxy compound are reacted per equivalent of anhydride group 6. Process according to claim 1, in which the GroupII metal is a metal of Period 4. 7. Process according to claim 1, in which the amount of hydroxide oxide per residual carboxylic group is from 0.5 1 1. 8. Resin useful for printing inks1 comprising an alkyl succinic acid which is partially esterified with a polyhydroxy compound and partially neutralized with a hydroxide oxide of a Group II metal. 9. Printing ink composition for gravure, comprising a resin vehicle as defined in claim 8, a hydrocarbon solvent with a boiling point of 800 1300C and a pigment. 10. Printing ink composition for offset, comprising the resin of claim 8, an oil varnish made by cooking this resin with a drying oil or alkyd, a mineral and a pigment.

## Description
PARTIALLY ESTERIFIED AND PARTIALLY NEUTRALIZED ALKYLSUCCINIC ANHYDRIDE RESINS AND THEIR USE IN PRINTINGINKSThe invention relates to a resin suitable for printing inks, which resin is based on the reaction product of a synthetic hydrocarbon resin and an alpha, beta unsaturated dicarboxylic acid.Such resins are known from US A 3 468 829, which discloses resin mixtures of a petroleum resin and rosin reacted with maleic anhydride, during which the rosin reacts preferentially, yielding maleopimaric acid and the like, but no or hardly any alkyl succinic anhydride resin, which compounds are subsequently partially neutralized with a reactive compound of a metal belonging to Group II of the Periodic Table. In Example 6 a reaction is described with a phenol formaldehyde cocondensate.Furthermore FR A 2 259 767 discloses resins for printing inks prepared by reacting a hydrocarbon resin based on aC5 cracking cut containing in particular cyclopentadiene and homologues thereof with an unsaturated polycarboxylic acid, e.g. maleic acid 1 50, preferably 10 30 of acid based on hydrocarbon and subsequent esterification with an alcohol. Various monoalcohols, diols and polyols have been mentioned, some of which contain two or three methylol groups, which alcohols do not however contain a phenolic hydroxyl group. Phenolic resins may be admixed with the modified hydrocarbon resin and also the possibility is mentioned of converting the residual carboxyl groups with metal compounds into metal soap groups. Finally, FR A 2 179 764 discloses resins for printing inks which are prepared from a C9 cut based on hydrocarbon resin subsequently reacted with an unsaturated dicarboxylic acid e.g. maleic anhydride , which is then esterified with an alcohol containing at most two hydroxyl groups and up to 10 carbon atoms. Subsequently the residual carboxyl groups can be saponified with alkaline earth compounds.It has now been found that resin vehicles for printing inks can be improved as to their properties. More in particular one or more of the following properties could be improved viscosity in aromatic solvent, better gloss of ink, higher rub resistance and better wetting of pigment, in particular of Rubis lithol dyes. Better gloss and better wetting of pigment are particularly important.According to the present invention improved resins for printing inks are obtained by partial esterification of an alkyl succinic anhydride resin having an average molecular weight of 800 to 2,000 with a polyhydroxy compound which contains 2 methylol groups and at least one phenolic hydroxyl group per molecule, and subsequent neutralization of at least part of the residual carboxyl groups with a reactive compound of a metal of Group II of the Periodic Table.The alkyl succinic anhydride resin is conveniently prepared by reacting maleic anhydride with a resin of the vinyl aromatic type, based on a C9 hydrocarbon cut and which contains, inter alia, styrene, alpha methyl styrene, vinyltoluene, indene, methyl indenes and minor proportions, below 20 , preferably below 10 by weight, of di cyclopentadiee. The preparation of the hydrocarbon resin usually takes place in the presence of a FriedelCrafts catalyst at a temperature below 100 C. The hydrocarbonresin is subsequently converted into an alkyl succinic anhydride resin by reacting with maleic anhydride or a homologue thereof the maleic anhydride is incorporated in an amount of 2 208 by weight, preferably 3 15 by weight. The reaction is carried out in the presence of a free radical catalyst in a hydrocarbon solvent. Mixtures of maleic anhydride and a homologue thereof can also be used.It is also possible to prepare alkylsuccinic anhydride resins containing the appropriate percentage of carboxylic groups in one step, e.g. by reacting styrene or other vinyl aromatics and maleic anhydride.The polyhydroxy compound used for partial neutralization of the grafted resin contains at least two methylol groups in the molecule, at least one phenolic hydroxyl group and at least one C4 C12 alkyl group. Especially precondensates resole type of an alkyl phenol and formaldehyde in a molar ratio of 1 2 moles of formaldehyde per mole of phenol are used. Suitable phenols are alkylphenols including cycloalkyl phenols such as butyl phenol, amylphenol, octylphenol, nonylphenol, cumylphenol and the addition product of dicyclopentadiene and phenol. Alkylphenols impart satisfactory solubility and viscosity in organic solvents. Paraisomers are preferred. Mixtures of different alkyl phenols and different isomers can also be used. Instead of formaldehyde, para formaldehyde, trioxymethylene and also hexamethylene tetramine can be used as a source of formaldehyde.These precondensates of the resole type are conveniently prepared by condensation reactions of the appropriate quantities of reactants under alkaline conditions at temperatures of 40e to 80 C, preferably 50 to 65eC. The precondensates as such contain at least two methylol groups per molecule and at least one phenolic hydroxyl group. The precondensates contain between 1 and 4, preferably from 2 to 3 phenol units per molecule on an average.The amount of polyhydroxy compound used per anhydride group of alkyl succinic anhydride is such that 0.5 to 2 equivalents, preferably 0.75 to 1.5, of methylol groups are reacted per anhydride group, the theoretical result being an esterification reaction yielding an alkyl succinic acid half ester of the resole. This esterification reaction is normally conducted in 0.5 to 3 hrs at a temperature of 50 100 CI The subsequent neutralization of the alkyl succinic half ester resin of a resole is carried out with a reactive compound of a metal of Group II of the Periodic Table. Suitable compounds are oxides, hydroxides and salts of weak acids. Suitable metals are barium, calcium, zinc and magnesium. Calcium and zinc are preferably used in mixtures. Preferably the metals used belong to Period 4 of the Periodic System.The amount of reactive neutralization agent used ranges between 0.5 an 1 equivalent per equivalent of residual i.e. non esterified carboxyl group. Water of reaction is removed conveniently by azeotropic distillation with xylene, returning the solvent but removing the water.The partially esterified, partially neutralized addition product of the alkyl succinic anhydride resin is a resin with the following typical characteristics softening point 175 200eC, preferably between 185 C and 195 C, viscosity of solution 0.5 2.5 dPa.s 50 in toluene at 230C acid value 15 20. The resin is an excellent vehicle for printing inks for gravure and offset techniques. For gravure inks the resin is dissolved in an aliphatic, cyclo aliphatic, aromatic solvent or blend thereof having a boiling point of 80 to 1300C and subsequently pigmented and the pigment dispersed by well known techniques. For offset inks the resin is cooked with a drying alkyd resin or drying oil and mineral oil in order to obtain a varnish, which is then pigmented.Example 1 100 g of hydrocarbon resin based on a C9 cut 2 styrene, 2 alpha methylstyrene, 5 dicyclopentadiene, 20 vinyltoluene, 20 indene, 7 methylindene and having the following characteristic softening point 150 160 C, were dissolved in 25 g of technical xylene in a flask and 6.8 g of maleic anhydride were added together with I g of di tertiary butyl peroxide. The mixture was heated to a temperature of 140 C for 5 hours, after which the alkyl succinic anhydride was cooled to 100 llO C. This resin showed a softening point of 175 C B R , an acid value of 40 and a viscosity in a 508 solution in toluene of 0.06 Pa.s at 23eC. To the resin 200 g of xylene were added and 21 g of a resole type precondensate obtained by reacting 100 g of p.nonylphenol with 48.7 g of aqueous formaldehyde containing 44 of formaldehyde molar ratio of phenol to formaldehyde 1 1.6 .This precondensate was obtained by condensation at 50C for 2 hours in the presence of 0.5 g of sodium hydroxide. The solution of the grafted resin and precondensate in technical xylene was heated for 1 hour at 60 65 C, leading to a partial presumably half ester, alkyl succinic ester and a resole. Subsequently 7.5 g of calcium hydroxide suspended in 30 g of water were added, leading to the formation of amber coloured salts of the hay fester of alkyl succinic acids.The temperature was then slowly increased to 145 150 C, during which organic solvent distilling off was returned but water distilling off was removed. Further water was removed by distilling off xylene until the temperature reached 220 C and this operation was completed by applying a vacuum for 1 hour.The resin thus obtained had a melting point of 186 C, and a viscosity in toluene 508 of 0.23 Pa.s in a yield of 99 .Example 2In the apparatus described in Example 1, 500 g of an alkyl succinic anydride resin were introduced. This resin had been previously prepared by polymerizing a Cg cut 28 of styrene, 2 of alpha methylstyrene, I58 of dicyclopentadiene, 20t of vinyltoluene, 208 of indene and 7 of methylindene in the presence of borontrifluoride so as to obtain a resin with a molecular weight of 1400 and subsequent reaction with 5 of maleic anhydride to obtain the alkyl succinic anhydride, which had a softening point of 166 C B R , an acid value of 21 and a viscosity at 230C of 0.06 Pa.s in a 50 solution in toluene.To the resin, 200 g of xylene were added and 25 g of a precondensate of octylphenol containing 1 mole of pa ra octyl,phenol and 1.6 moles of formaldehyde . The solution of the two resins was heated to 60o 65eC for 1 hour and 9.2 g of calcium hydroxide suspended in 40 g of water were added. After removal of the water distilled off and subsequent removal of the solvent, an amber coloured resin with a softening point of 1880C and a viscosity of 0.51 Pa.s in a 50 solution in toluene was obtained in a yield of 998. Example 3Into the apparatus described in Example 1, 500 g of a resin based on a C9 steam cracking cut 2 of styrene, 2 of alpha methylstyrene, 10 of dicyclopentadiene, 20 of vinyltoluene, 20 of indene and 7 of methylindene , which was treated with 6.8t of maleic anhy dride, were introduced. This resin had a softening point of 1780C and a viscosity of 0.06 Pa.s at 23 C in a 50 solution in toluene.To the resin 200 g of xylene were added and 50 g of a precondensate of p tertiary butylphenol and formaldehyde prepared by condensing 2160 g of p tertiary butyl phenol containing about 10 of the ortho isomer and 1530 g of formaldehyde with 50 g of sodium hydroxideSubsequently 5 g of calcium hydroxide and 2.2 g of zinc oxide were added and heated. Water and subsequently solvent were removed and an amber coloured resin with a softening point of 195 C and a viscosity of 0.37 Pa.s at 23 C in a 50 solution in toluene was obtained in a yield of 97 .Example 4 500 g of alkyl succinic anhydride resin as described in Example 1 were dissolved in 125 g of technical xylene. The solution was heated to 100 110 C and there were introduced 40 g 8 of a cocondensate which had previously been prepared by condensation of 240 g of p.amyl phenol with 156 g of aqueous formaldehyde 44t in the presence of sodium hydroxide as a catalyst. The temperature was subsequently raised to 1200C and the mixture was kept at that temperature for one hour.Then 35 g of calcium hydroxide, suspended in xylene, were added and the temperature was raised to 145 150 C. Xylene was distilled off and recycled and the water resulting from esterification and neutralization was collected. The temperature was then raised in three hours to 220 C and kept at that value until the solution had become clear, after which the process was completed at reduced pressure for 30 minutes.The resin thus obtained had a dark brown colour, a melting point of l91 C, and a viscosity of 10.6 Pa s at 23 C in a 50 solution in toluene. The yield was 98.5 . Example 5A varnish for a gravure ink was prepared by dissolving 38 parts of resin according to Ex. 1 in 62 parts by weight of hydrocarbon consisting of a blend of 20 of toluene and 80 of aliphatic hydrocarbon of b.p. 90 115eC, giving a solution with a viscosity of 40 seconds in a Ford cup 2.5 at 23 C. The grinding of the ink was effected with 32.5 parts of varnish with 7.5 parts of Rubis lithol and 5 parts of toluene. Subsequently 37 parts of varnish were added and 13 parts of the solvent blend mentioned above. The pigment wetted easily. To the ink base thus prepared 50 ml of solvent blend were added per 100 g of ink base in order to prepare the final ink.The ink had a 2.5 Ford cup viscosity of 40 seconds at 23eC. French norm NF T 30 014 .The ink thus obtained does not flocculate, even if 300 ml of solvent blend in 100 g of ink are added, indicating an excellent wetting property. Also the rub resistance was excellent and superior to that of inks prepared from polymerised resinates. Also the gloss and colour intensity were at least equal to that of inks based on calcium resinate. The properties are tabulated in Table I. TABLE IEMI9.1 tb SEP Resin SEP acc. tb SEP to SEP Ex. SEP 5 tb Flocculation SEP limit SEP based tb on SEP 100 SEP g SEP of SEP resin SEP with SEP the SEP about SEP above tb solvent SEP indicated SEP above SEP 150 SEP ml SEP 300 SEP ml tb SEP Colour SEP intensity SEP 30 SEP 1.58 SEP 1.62 tb SEP 20 SEP 1.30 SEP 1.34 tb SEP Briliance SEP 54 SEP 56 tb SEP Rub SEP resistance tb SEP Number SEP of SEP turns SEP with tb SEP Taber SEP abrasimeter SEP 10 SEP 35 tb Example 6Rotative offset inkA varnish was prepared from 47 parts of resin according to Ex.2 and 53 parts of a mineral oil with b.p. 240 270 C, aniline point 72, content of aromatics abt. 158 and a flash point above 1000C. Subsequently the varnish was pigmented in a roller mill according to the table below red ink blue ink yellow inkRubis lithol 14 Phthalocyanine blue 12.5Benzidine yellow 10Alkyd resin Uralac S41N ex Sheby,Bezons, France 8 7 6Varnish prepared as described above 70 74.5 81Mineral oil ditto 8 6 3 Uralac is a vinyl toluene modified alkyd, based on a blend of non yellowing qils, esterified with glycerol AV5 8, Colour Gardner 8, viscosity 25 Gardner HoltZ10, flash point 66 C .The inks showed a viscosity of abt. 100 d Pa.s, determined with a Laray viscosimeter at 230C the tack values were low and the gloss was excellent. The properties of the inks obtained and of a commercially available ink based on an abietoformophenolic resin are tabulated in Table II. TABLE II EMI11.1 SEP Red SEP Compa SEP Blue SEP Compa SEP Yellow SEP Compa SEP Ex. SEP 5 SEP rison SEP Ex. SEP 5 SEP rison SEP Ex. SEP 5 SEP rison tb Gloss SEP SEP reflection tb at SEP 60 SEP angle SEP 58 SEP 47 SEP 38 SEP 39 SEP 62 SEP 60 tb Ericson SEP glossmaster tb Offsetting SEP time SEP sec. SEP 60 SEP 90 SEP 30 SEP 100 SEP 30 SEP 50 tb Tack SEP Twing SEP Albert tb V1 SEP 13.6 SEP 18.2 SEP 12.1 SEP 15.6 SEP 14.0 SEP 19.2 tb V2 SEP 17.4 SEP 22.4 SEP 15.2 SEP 19.2 SEP 17.9 SEP 23.0 tb V3 SEP 20.8 SEP 27.9 SEP 17.3 SEP 24.7 SEP 21.2 SEP 28.4 tb Rub SEP resistance tb number SEP of SEP turns SEP with tb Taber SEP abrasimeter SEP 30 SEP 15 SEP 25 SEP 10 SEP 35 SEP 25 tb RTI ID 11.2 Experiments run on IGT Instituut Grafische Technisk TNO Amsterdam equipment, using coated paper, Maine, weight 90 g mê, depositing 1 g of ink per mê.