# Method of producing rim stabilized steel ingots.

## Abstract
A rim stabilized steel ingot is produced by teeming a rimming type steel into an ingot mold until the mold is about 80 to 95 full, whereupon teeming is interrupted to allow a rimming action of from ½ to 15 minutes. Thereafter, teeming is recommenced until the mold is full, and during this recom menced teeming molten aluminum is added to the mold in an amount sufficient to semi kill the molten steel and yield from 0.002 to 0.008 dissolved aluminum in the ingot core. Cold rolled products produced from such an ingot will exhibit form ing characteristics equivalent to those produced from ingots having a fully killed core in certain applications. Such good forming properties are attributable to the formation of small, finely dispersed nonmetallic inclusions comparable to those developed when the core is fully killed with molten aluminum.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method of producing rim stabilized steel ingots, comprising teeming a rimming steel into an ingot mold until the mold is 80 to 95 full, permitting the teemed steel to rim for a period of 1 2 to 15 minutes, commencing teeming to substantially fill the ingot mold and adding molten aluminum during said recommenced teeming, said addition of molten aluminum being commenced after recommencement of teeming and terminated before termination of recommenced teeming, characterized by adding only enough molten aluminum as will give rise to a dissolved aluminum content in the ingot core of 0.002 to 0.008 and a dissolved oxygen content in the ingot core of 35 to 75 ppm. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1, characterized by adding only enough molten aluminum as will provide an oxygen content in the ingot core of 50 to 60 ppm.

## Description
METHOD OF PRODUCING RIM STABILIZED STEEL INGOTS This invention relates to the production of rim stabilized steel ingots. United States Patent No. 3,754,591 is directed to a method for making rim stabilized steel ingots whereby a rimming type steel is teemed into an ingot mold until the mold is about 80 to 95 full, whereupon teeming is interrupted to allow a rimming action in the mold for a period of from 1 2 to 15 minutes. Thereafter, teeming is continued until the mold is full. After teeming is commenced following the rimming action, sufficient molten aluminum is injected into the teem stream to completely kill the molten core, such that all the total required aluminum is added before teeming is complete. The practice as disclosed in that patent provides considerable advantages over more conventional procedures utilizing solid forms of aluminum. Specifically, the use of molten aluminum as disclosed provides a higher aluminum recovery, better and more uniform aluminum distributicn, fewer stringer type alumina inclusions, a higher incidence of a smaller dispersed, globular type which is more desirable of inclusions, and an absence of porosity at the rim core interface. The superiority in using molten aluminum instead of solid aluminum to kill the core of the steel is associated with the fact that molten aluminum dissolves almost instantaneously in molten steel, thus minimizing the harmful effect of the difference in the densities between the two metals.Because of these advantages, the resulting sheet steel products produced from such ingots are indeed superior to prior art rim stabilized products in having exceptional drawability and good surface characteristics. In the few years since its development, that process has gained considerable commercial success, as more and more tons are produced by that process by various steel producers, for a progressively wider variety of applications. The progressively increasing use of the abovedescribed process however, has been accompanied by increasing problems. Specifically, since the above process requires a complete killing of the ingot core, the ingots must be handled like any killed steel ingot. That is, unlike rimmed or semi killed steel ingots, killed steel ingots must be allowed to solidify completely before they are moved in order to avoid segregation problems. Such ingots therefore are colder when stripped and placed into a soaking pit, and accordingly must soak for a significantly longer period of time in order to reach a uniform hot working temperature. This not only increases the cost of production, but when significant tonnages are produced, can cause serious bottle neck problems. Indeed, some mills have such limited soaking pit capacities that they cannot sustain high production rates of rim stabilized steels. While it is of course recognized that the above problems, characteristic of killed steel production, can be alleviated by producing more rimmed or semi killed steel ingots, the different types of teeming practices produce different steel characteristics, none of which are suitable for all applications. Indeed, killed steels or rimstabilized core killed steels are far superior insofar as deep drawing and other cold formability properties rm,Ar, are concerned. Furthermore, the rim stabilized steels core killed with molten aluminum pursuant to the process disclosed in the above mentioned patent have surface qualities and deep drawability superior to most killed steels produced by techniques prior thereto.Therefore, while one might reasonably assume that the above mentioned patented process could be utilized to produce a rimstabilized steel ingot having a semi killed core, sheet products produced therefrom should be quite inferior insofar as cold forming characteristics are concerned. This invention is predicated on our development of a process for making rim stabilized steel ingots whereby the ingot core is semi killed rather than killed, with a carefully controlled addition of molten aluminum. While this process provides the obvious advantages of permitting the steel ingots to be handled while the interior portion is still molten to thereby shorten soaking time and increase production capacity, it also provides the unexpected advantage in producing a steel which, unlike conventional semi killed steels, is characterized by cold forming characteristics for some applications to be as good as those steels produced pursuant to the patented process wherein the core is fully killed primarily because of a high incidence of smaller, finely dispersed, globular type of inclusions which are more desirable than the long stringertype of alumina inclusions formed when solid aluminum additions are made. However, it is recognized that such steels with semi killed cores will not have the grain texture equivalent to steels having larger molten aluminum additions to provide the excellent deep drawing properties required for all cold forming applications. In addition, production techniques can be simplified because hot tops or side boards are completely unnecessary, and ingot toslab yields are improved. According to the present invention, there is provided a method of producing rim stabilized steel ingots, comprising teeming a rimming steel into an ingot mold until the mold is 80 to 95 full, permitting the teemed steel to rim for a period of 1 2 to 15 minutes, recommencing teeming to substantially fill the ingot mold and adding molten aluminum during said recommenced teeming, said addition of molten aluminum being commenced after recommencement of teeming and terminated before termination of recommenced teeming, and said molten aluminum being added only in an amount as will give rise to a dissolved aluminum content in the ingot core of 0.002 to 0.008 and a dissolved oxygen content in the ingot core of 35 to 75 ppm. According to the preferred embodiment of this invention, the step by step production sequence is substantially the same as that described in United States PatentNo. 3,754,591. The only exception is that the molten aluminum addition is very carefully controlled to a lesser amount as a function of the steels oxygen content. The specific process steps are as follows 1 hot molten steel is teemed into an ingot mold at a normal rate, i.e., 5 to 10 tons 4.5 to 9.1 tonnes per minute, until the mold is about 80 to 95 full 2 teeming is then stopped and the steel allowed to rim for a period of 1 2 to 15 minutes and preferably 2 to 7 minutes 3 teeming is thereafter resumed to fill the remainder of the ingot mold 4 during the step 3 teeming, the predetermined amount of molten aluminum is added to the ingot mold, preferably by introducing the molten aluminum into the teem stream such that the entire amount of aluminum is added after teeming is resumed and before it is complete. The above production sequence is substantially as disclosed and claimed in United States Patent No.3,754,591. As disclosed in that patent, it is essential that the step 3 teeming should start before any molten aluminum is added, and should continue after all the molten aluminum is added. This teeming overlap is necessary because the teeming stream not only serves to carry the molten aluminum deep into the ingot core, but also serves to divert the iron oxide scum on the upper surface of the molten metal during step 3 thereby minimizing alumina formation. Preferably therefore, teeming should be commenced two seconds before the addition of aluminum is started and should continue for two seconds after all the aluminum has been added. Although such a two second overlap is preferable, a one second overlap before and after will suffice. Whereas the above mentioned patent discloses the production of a rim stabilized steel ingot having a fully killed core, the crux of this invention resides in the careful control of the amount of molten aluminum added so as to assure that the core is only semi killed as opposed to killed. To this end, the molten aluminum addition should be limited so that the molten core of the ingot will contain from 35 to 75 ppm of dissolved oxygen after the aluminum is added, and preferably 50 to 60 ppm. The actual amount of molten aluminum added to the steel will depend upon the steel s carbon and oxygen contents, other ingredients to some extent and the amount of rimming action desired before the core is semi killed.Most typically, the steels produced by the patented process are utilized in cold forming applications, and have carbon and dissolved oxygen contents of 0.02 to 0.10 and 40 to 60 ppm respectively. Other alloy constituents are seldom utilized, and rimming times of 2 to 7 minutes are typical. As suggested in the above mentioned patent, the amount of molten aluminum required to fully kill the core for such steels is about 1.6 pounds of aluminum per ton of steel 0.8 kg tonne .In the process of this invention wherein the core is semikilled, about 0.6 lb ton 0.3 kg tonne of molten aluminum may typically be added. The dissolved aluminum content in the semi killed core should range from 0.002 to 0.008 , whereas in the fully killed core it would range from 0.025 to 0.065 . It is well known in the prior art that sheet products produced from fully killed steels have better cold forming properties than those produced from semi killed steels. Prior to this invention, semi killed steels are rarely, if ever, used in the production of low carbon 0.02 to 0.10 cold rolled sheets because of their inferior surface and interior qualities when compared to rimmed or aluminum killed steels. The most surprising feature of the process of this invention is that sheet steel products rolled from steel ingots produced pursuant hereto exhibit cold forming characteristics comparable to those produced from rim stabilized core killed steels.A close examination of the steel produced according to this invention reveals that the small molten aluminum addition produces small, finely dispersed, globular type of manganese aluminate and alumina inclusions instead of the stringer type of inclusions, predominately alumina, formed when solid aluminum additions are made. In addition to the excellent cold forming characteristics, the microcleanliness of steel produced pursuant to this invention is comparable to those steels produced according to United States Patent No. 3,754,591. The table below provides the QTM Quantitative Television Microscopic ratings for two commercial tinplate coils produced from ingots teemed according to this invention. It can readily be seen that the QTM ratings are comparable. TABLE QTM Ratings Average No. of Location of Inclusion Worst Field Fields Lmsth Coil Ident. Test Area, Area, 8 0.5 Factor A Bead 0.08 0.26 0 0 Tail 0.08 0.46 0 0 B Heed 0.09 0.35 0 0 Tail 0.08 0.29 0 0Average Range for Tinplate fran ingots produced 0.09 0.26 according to U.S. Patent 0.07 0.12 0.23 0.28 0 0 3,754,591 Production trial of these coils for D I drawn and ironed can application demonstrated that such steel performed as well as did tinplate produced from ingots having a fully killed cores that were killed with molten aluminum. D I cans made on laboratory facilities showed the steel to perform as well as did the steels having fully killed cores.