# Antibiotic synthesis.

## Abstract
A new process involving novel intermediates for the synthesis of antibiotics comprises 1. acylation of a dianion followed by reduction to introduce an arylhydroxymethyl or alkylhydroxymethyl group alternatively, alkylation followed by oxidation and reduction to introduce the same group 2. oxidative decarboxylation to introduce a 4 acetoxy group 3. silyl enolether chemistry on the acetoxy intermedi ate using Lewis acids to introduce the side chain, or replacement of the acetoxy group with a triphenylmethylthio group and 4. ring closures.

## Claims
WEAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A method of preparing intermediates for antibiotics comprising the steps of converting an N protected ss lactam formic acid of the formulaEMI38.1 to a dianion by treatment with a strong base, acylating the dianion to introduce an acetyl groupvin the 3 position, reducing the acetyl group to form the corresponding 3 1 hydroxyethyl 2 azetidinone 4 carboxylic acid, and subjecting the latter compound or itsN deprotected analogue to oxidative decarboxylation to substitute an acetoxy group for the carboxyl group. 2. A method according to Claim 1 wherein the strong base is lithium diisopropyl amide, lithium hexamethyldisilamide, lithium 2,2,6,6 tetramethyl piper id ide or butyl lithium. 3. A method according to Claim 1 wherein the acylating agent has the formulaEMI38.2 wherein X is a leaving group. 4. A method according to Claim 3 wherein X is halide, acetoxy, alkoxy or imidazole. 5. A method according to Claim 1 wherein. the reducing agent is NaBH4, LiBH4, an amine borane or catalytic hydrogenatione 6. A method according to Claim 1 wherein the reducing agents are magnesium trifuoroacetate and diisopropyl amine borage. 7. A method according to Claim 1 wherein the oxidative decarboxylation is carried out by means of lead tetraacetate. 8. A method according to Claim 1 wherein the N deprotected acetoxy compound is treated with a silyl enolether in the presence of a Lewis acid. 9. A method according to Claim 8 wherein the silyl enolether has the formulaEMI39.1 wherein R2 and R3 are H or alkyl of 1 4 carbon atoms, alkenyl of 2 4 carbon atoms, benzyl or phenethyl and R5 is benzyl, allyl, alkyl of 1 4 carbons or p nitrobenzyl. 10. An intermediate according to Claim 1 having one of the following formulas as the indicated enantiomer EMI40.1 EMI41.1 wherein P is a readily removable nitrogen protecting group R4 is alkyl of 1 4 carbon atoms, alkenyl of 2 4 carbon atoms, phenyl, phenyl substitued by 1 3 alkyl groups of 1 3 carbon atoms 3 halogen atoms, 1 3 trifluoromethyl group amino, cyano or nitro Rl is H, trialkylsilyl, triarylsilyl, diarylalkylsilyl, aryldialkvlsilyl, wherein the alkyl groups have 1 4 carbon atoms and the aryl groups are phenyl or substituted phenol, or p nitrobenzylcarbonate R5 is benzyl, alkyl of 1 4 carbon atoms allyl, or 2 nitrobenzyl R7 is substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, aryl, heteroaryl, heterocyclyl or SR7 wherein R7 is as previously defined Ph is phenyl and PNB is 2 nitrobenzyl. 11. A compound according to Claim 10 having one of the following formulasEMI42.1 as the indicated enantiomer wherein P is as defined in Claim 10. 12. An intermediate for the preparation of an oxapen 2 em 3 carboxylic acid compound consisting of a compound of Claim 10 of the formula 16, 17, 18 or V. 13. A method of preparing a compound of the formulaEMI42.2 which comprises reacting a compound of the formulaEMI42.3 wherein R1 is hydrogen with sodium triphenylmethyl thsolate, and wherein R4 is as defined in Claim 10. 14. A method of preparing a compound of the formulaEMI43.1 whichxcomprise8 reacting a compound of the formulaEMI43.2 with chlorothionate, wherein R1 and R5 are as defined in Claim 10. 15. A method of preparing a compound of the formulaEMI43.3 which comprises reacting a compound of the formula EMI44.1 with a compound of the formulaEMI44.2 wherein R1, R4 and R5 are as defined in Claim 10 and R6 is Li, Na, K, Mg, Cu, Ag, Zn or Cd. 16. A method of preparing a compound of the formulaEMI44.3 which comprises subjecting a compound of the formulaEMI44.4 to rhodium II catalyzed cyclization, wherein R1,R4 and R5 are as defined in Claim 10. 17. A method of preparing a compound of the formulaEMI45.1 which comprises reacting a compound of the formulaEMI45.2 with a metal alkyl, metal aryl, metal heteroaryl, metal heterocyclyl, or HSR7 wherein R7 is substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, aryl, heteroaryl, heterocyclyl or S b wherein h is as defined above, wherein the metal is either Li, Na, K, Mg or Gd, and wherein R1 R4, , Ph and PNB are as defined in Claim 10. 18. A method of preparing a compound of the formulaEMI45.3 which comprises reacting a compound of the formula EMI46.1 with a compound of the formulaEMI46.2 is the presence of a Lewis acid or trimethylsilyl triflate or a trimethylsilylated perfluorinated sulfonic acid resin, wherein R4 is as defined inClaim 10, R is alkyl of 1 4 carbon atoms, and R2 and R3 are H, alkyl of 1 4 carbon atoms, alkenyl of 2 4 carbon atoms, benzyl or phenethyl. 19. A process of preparing a compound of the formulaEMI46.3 which comprises treating a compound of the formulaEMI46.4 with a strong base followed by hydrolysis to form S azetidin 2 one 4 formic acid.

## Description
ANTIBIOTIC SYNTHESISBACKGROUND OF TEE INVENTION The discovery of thienamycin of formula I and analogous l carbapenem antibiotics derived from various strains of Streptomyces has resulted in an intense interest in the synthesis of the novel carbapenem skeleton Although a chiral synthesis of thienamycin starting from L aspartic acid has been achieved bySalzmann et ale and is described in U.S. Patent 4,290,947, this earlier work entailed a large number of steps and the use of strenuous reaction conditions which are not amenable to commercial production. Of particular concern was the chemistry used to elaborate a side chain at the 4 positon of an azetidin 2 one compound. The formation of a carbon carbon bond at the 4 position of an azetidin 2 cne compound opens up a wide variety of synthetic pathways to the carbapenems.The known methods, however, suffer from low yields, complex reaction conditions, and functional group limitations.OBJECTS OF THE INVENTION It is, accordingly, an object of the present invention to provide an improved method for the synthesis of carbapenems including thienamycins, penems and oxapen 2 em 3 carboxylic acids. Another object is to provide a simpler and more economical method for the production of these antibiotics. A further object is to provide novel intermediates for the synthesis of these antibiotics. These and other objects of the present invention will be apparent from the following description.SUMMARY OF TEE INVENTION A 13 lactam formic acid is converted to a dianion by treatment with a very strong base followed by acylation to introduce an acyl group in the 3 position followed by reduction to form the corresponding 3 1 aryl or l alkyl l hydroxymethyl 2 azetidinone 4 carboxylic acid.Direct alkylation of the dianion with aldehydes will also give the same hydroxymethyl 2 azetidinone 4 carboxylic acids. The latter compounds are then subjected to an oxidative decarboxylation with lead tetracetate to substitute an acetoxy group for the carboxyl group.The resulting N deprotected 4 acetoxy compound is then treated with a silyl enolether in the presence of a Lewis acid to form a compound which is cyclized in known manner with rhodium II acetate to give the l carbapenem structure in near quantitative yield, or the acetoxy group is replaced with a triphenylmethylthio group which is then elaborated in known manner to give a penem DETAILED DESCRIPTION The present invention relates to carbapenems including thienamycin, penems and oxapen 2 em 3carboxylic acids and, more particularly, to a novel method for the synthesis of these antibiotics involving novel intermediates. According to the present invention,L aspartic acid of Formula A is converted to N,O,O tristrimethylsilylaspartate of Formula B by silylation in known fashion, e.g0, by use of hexamethyldisilazane in the presence of an acidic catalyst, or by use of trimethylsilyl chloride in the presence of an amine. The compound of Formula B is then treated with strong base to form the azetidinone formic acid of Formula C.By a strong base is meant a base having a PRa 320. Examples of suitable bases are compounds of the formula RMgX wherein R is an alkyl group and X is a halide such as, for example, t butyl MgCl or CE3MgI, trialkyl aluminum such as, for example, trimethyl aluminum, lithium dialkylamides such as, for example, lithium diisopropyl amide, or metal alkoxides such as for example, lithium methoxide, sodium isopropoxide,K t butoxide or magnesium t butoxide or alkali metal hydrides such as, for example, potassium hydride.The compound of Formula C is then N protected to yield the compound of Formula 2.EMI4.1 The N protected lactam formic acid ofFormula 2 is treated with a very strong base, that is, a base capable of converting the compound ofFormula 2 into the dianion of Formula 3. TheN protecting group may be any readily removable nitrogen protecting group such as, for example, a tri substituted silyl group wherein the substituents may be alkyl groups or aryl groups. Specific examples of suitable N protecting agents are t butyldimethylsilyl chloride, diphenylmethylsilyl chloride or dimethylisobutylsilyl chloride. Tosyl and benzyl are examples of other N protecting groups. Examples of suitable strong bases are lithium diisopropyl amide, lithium hexamethyldi silamide, lithium 2,2,6,6 tetramethylpiperidide and butyl lithium. Lithium diisopropyl amide is a preferred base.The reaction takes place in the presence of an aprotic solvent such as, for example, tetrahydrofuran TEF , diethylether or dimethoxyethane The resulting dilithium salt of Formula 3 is acylated with an acylating agent of the formulaEMI5.1 wherein R4 is alkyl of 1 4 carbons, or alkenyl of 2 4 carbons, phenyl, phenyl substituted by 1 to 3 alkyl groups of 1 3 carbon atoms, 1 to 3 halogen atoms, 1 to 3 trifluoromethyl groups, amino, cyano or nitro, and wherein X is a leaving group such as, for example, halide, acetoxy, alkoxy, imidazole, pyridylthiot arylthio or alkylthio. The acylation takes place in the presence of at least an additional equivalent of lithium diisopropyl amide to form a compound of Formula 4.EMI5.2 Alternatively, the N protected lactam formic acid ofFormula 2 may be reacted with at least 3 equivalents of base in which case the acylation reaction may take place without further addition of base. The dilithium salt of Formula 3 may also be produced from the isolable mono lithium salt ofFormula 3a by treatment with one equivalent of lithium diisopropyl amide. The mono lithium salt ofFormula 3a is formed by reaction of an N protected lactam formic acid of Formula 2 with one equivalent of a lithium base, for example, lithium hydride, lithium hydroxide, n butyl lithium or lithium diisopropyl amide. The dianion compound of Formula 4 may be reacted with 1 equivalent of acid to form the monoanion compound of Formula 5, or it may be reacted with 2 equivalents of acid to form the compound ofFormula 6.EMI6.1 The dilithium salt of Formula 3 is alkylated with an aldehyde of the formula R4CSO to form an epimeric mixture of hydroxymethyl formic acid compounds of Formula Sa. This epimeric mixture may be oxidized with a variety of reagents such as, for example, sodium dichromate sulfuric acid water, chromium trioxide, or dimethyl sulfoxide oxalyl chloride to the ss lactam keto acid compound ofFormula 6. Reduction of the ketoacid compounds ofFormula 6 with standard reducing agents such as, for example, NaBH4, LiBH4, amine boranes, or S2 catalysts,affords mixtures of epimers containing the R,S,S substituted hydroxymethyl B lactam formic acid compounds of Formula 8. However, treatment of the compounds of Formula 5 and Formula 6 withEMI7.1 magnesium trifluoroacetate and diisopropyl amine borane stereospecifically yields the compounds of Formula 7 and Formula 8, respectively. Furthermore, treatment of the compounds ofFormula 7 with an acid also gives the compounds ofFormula 8. EMI7.2 The substituted hydroxymethylformic acid compound of Formula 8 or its N deprotected analogue is reacted with lead tetraacetate to form the corresponding substituted hydroxymethyl acetoxy azetidinone of Formula 9 wherein R is B or itsN deprotected analogue of Formula 10 wherein R1 isH, respectively. The compound of Formula 9 wherein is is H is then treated in known manner to remove the N protecting group, for example, by use of trifluoro acetic acid, tetrabutyl ammonium fluoride, or methanol and aqueous hydrochloric acid, or acetone and aqueous hydrochloric acid to yield the deprotected substituted hydroxymethylacetoxy azetidinone compound of Formula 10 wherein R1 is H. EMI8.1 The epimeric substituted hydroxymethylformic acid compounds of Formula 8A are reacted with lead tetraacetate to form the corresponding substituted hydroxymethyl acetoxy azetidinones of Formula 9A wherein R1 is H. Alternatively, the compounds of Formula 8A may be converted directly to the compounds of Formula lOA wherein R1 is H by carrying out the foregoing reaction at elevated temperatures of about 45 C or above, preferably at from about 70 to about 750C.EMI8.2 This epimeric mixture of compounds ofFormula 9A or its N deprotected analogue of Formula lOA may be oxidized in known manner to the compound of Formula 19 where P is a protecting group, e.g. t butyldimethylrilyl, or the compound of Formula 20 where P H, respectively.EMI9.1 Reduction of the ketoacetate compounds ofFormulas 19 or 20 with standard reducing agents such as, for example, Nabs4, LiBS4, amine boranes or S2 catalysts, affords mixtures of epimers containing the R,R,R substituted hydroxymethyl ss 5actam formic acid compounds of Formula 9 and 10. However, treatment of the compounds of Formula 19 and 20 withEMI9.2 magnesium trifluoroacetate and diisopropyl amine borane stereospecifically yields the compound of Formula 9 and Formula 10, respectively. Compounds of Formula 9 wherein R1 is other than H are prepared by reacting the compound ofFormula 9 wherein R1 is hydrogen with a halide such as, for example, trimethylsilyl chloride, t butyldimethylsilyl chloride or 4 nitrophenyl chloroformate. PREPARATION OF CARBAPENEM COMPOUNDS Treatment of the compound of Formula 10 with silyl enolether of Formula 11 wherein R2 and R3 are hydrogen or are independently alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, alkenyl of 2 to 4 carbon atoms, benzyl or phenethyl, in the presence of zinc halide or otherLewis acids such as, for example,, boron trifluoride etherate, titanium tetrachloride, stannic chloride, aluminum chloride, and the like, or in the presence of a highly reactive silylating agent such as trimethylsilyl triflate, yields the esters of Formula 12 wherein a5 may be, for example, benzyl, allyl, alkyl or Ernitrobenzyl. Monosubstituted compounds ofFormula II when one of R2 and R3 is other than hydrogen are prepared followin the procedure ofWeiler, J.A.C.S. 1974, 96, 10a2, by treating benzyl acetoacetate with sodium hydride followed by n butyl lithium and then adding a halide containing the group to be introduced, e.g., methyl iodide, allyl bromide, or benzyl bromide. Diazotization and subsequent silyl enol ether formation gives the compounds ofFormula 11. Disubstituted compounds of Formula 11 when R2 and R3 are both other than hydrogen are prepared in analogous fashion.EMI10.1 The compound of Formula 12 is then converted in known manner to a carbapenem, for example, as shown inExamples 15 18 of U.S. patent 4,290,947. An alternate procedure for preparing the compounds of Formula 12 comprises reacting a compound of Formula 9 or 10 with a compound of Formula 13, wherein R2 and R3 have the same meaning as in the compound of Formula 11 and R is alkyl of 1 4 carbon atoms or a silyl group such as trimethyl silyl, in the presence of a Lewis acid or trimethylsilyl triflate or a trimethylsilylatedperfluorinated sulfonic acid resin to yield a compound of Formula 14.EMI11.1 The latter compound is saponified to remove R if other than H and Rl is removed if other than H , the carboxyl group activated with carbonyl diimidazole and then reacted with Xg O2CCH2CO2R5 2, and finally subjected to diazo transfer to yield the compound of Formula 12.PREPARATION OF OXAPEN 2EM 30C RBOXYLIC ACID COMPOUNDS Treatment of the compound of Formula 10 with a 2 diazo malonate of Formula 15 wherein R6 is an alkali metal or alkaline earth metal cation, e.g., Li, Na, K, Mg, or Cu, Ag, Zn or Cd, a trialkylsilyl radical, e.g., trimethyl silyl or t butyldimethyl silyl, or a trialkyl ammonium salt, e.g., triethylammonium, and wherein a5 has the same meaning as defined for the compound of Formula 11, gives the compound of Formula 16.EMI12.1 The compound of Formula 16 is converted to the compound of Formula 17 by a Rhodium it catalyzed cyclization and in turn through the compound ofFormula V to the oxapen 2 em 3 carboxylic acid compound of Formula 18 wherein b is substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, aryl, heteroaryl, heterocyclyl or Sa7 wherein b is as defined above .The compound of Formula 17 is treated with diphenylchlorophosphate in the presence of a tertiary amine to yield the compound of Formula V see Example 7 .In turn, the compound of Formula. V is converted to the compound of Formula 18 by reaction with a metal alkyl, metal aryl, metal heteroaryl, metal heterocyclyl or HSR7 wherein.themetal is eitherLi, Na, K, Mg or Cd and R7 is as defined above. EMI13.1 PREPARATION OF PENEM COMPOUNDS Treatment of the compound of Formula 10 with sodium triphenylmethylthiolate yields the compound ofFormula 21. The latter when R1 is other than H, for example, t butyldimethylsilyl may be converted sequentially by following the procedure of British patent 2,042,j14 to the compounds of Formulas 22, 23 24 and 25. The compound of Formula 22 is formed by treating the compound of Formula 21 successively with 0HCCO2R5 where R5 has the same meaning as in the compound of Formula 11 , SOCL2, and triphenylphosphine. Treating the compound of Formula 22 with AgNO3 yields the compound of Formula 23.Treating the latter with an acyl halide yields the compound ofFormula 24, and heating the latter yields the compound of Formula 25.EMI13.2 Alternatively, the compound of Formula 23 is reacted with chlorothionate,EMI14.1 to yield the compound of Formula 26 and t4e latter is converted by heat following the procedure of European patent application 13,662 and British patent 2,048,261 to the compound of Formula 27.EMI14.2 R1 tBuMe2Si, R5 allyl R1 PNBO2C, R5 PNB The following example illustrate the present invention without, however, limiting the same thereto.All temperatures are expressed in degrees Celsius. EXAMPLE 1 Preparation of Thienamvcin A. Preparation of N protected lactam formic acid of Formula 2. To a 0 solution of the unprotected lactam, azetidinone 4 carboxylic acid benzyl ester 4.1 g, 20 mmol prepared as described in UbS. patent 4,290,947, in 15 mL of sieve dried dimethylformamide DMF was added t butyldimethylsilyl chloride 3.165 g, 21 mmol followed by triethyl amine 2.93 mL, 21 mmol .After stirring at 0 for 40 minutes the reaction mixture was diluted with petroleum ether 200 mL low boiling and washed with water. The organic layer was washed successively with 75 mL portions of water, 2N SC1, H20 brine and then dried overMgSO4. Removal of the solvent gave N t butyldimethylsilyl azetidinone 4 carboxylic acid benzyl ester as a mobile oil in 93 yield 5.856 g .B. Preparation of Deprotected lactam formic acid of Formula 2. A solution of the protected lactam 4.452 g, 14.1 mmol in absolute ethanol 20 mL was treated with 10 Pd C 400 mg and hydrdgenated at 40 psi at 250 for thirty minutes until theoretical uptake of hydrogen had occurred . The catalyst was removed by filtration and the filtrate concentrated to yield the crystalline lactam formic acid of Formula 2 mp 143 145 ciD s 740, c 1, CEC13 in 86 yield 2.775 g . C. Dianion acylation and reduction. The chiral acid of Formula 2 458 mg, 2 nol in dry THF 2 mL at O was added by a cannula to a 0 solution of 3e1 equivalents of lithium diisopropyl amide 6o2 nol in THF 6 mL under nitrogen. The solution was then allowed to stir for 35 minutes during which time its temperature increased to 150. The solution was then recooled to 00. At this point the dianion solution was transferred via cannula to a 0 solution of acetylimidazole 330 mg, 3 mmol, 1.5 equivalents in THF 4 mL and stirred for thirty minutes during which time the temperature rose to room temperature. The resulting acetylated product was not isolated.After acidification to pH 7 with aqueous citric acid at 50C, the mixture was treated with NaBH4 76 mg, 2 mmol and stirred for one hour. After further acidification to pH 4 with citric acid, the resulting mixture was partitioned between ether and water followed by drying and evaporation of the ether layer to give an oil 470 mg, 86 . NMR spectra indicated that a mixture of the R,S,S and S,S,S isomers of Formula 8A R4 CH3 was present in a 1.3 to 1 ratio, respectively.Do Oxidative decarboxylation. The hydroxyethyl formic acid of Formula 8 R4 CE3 400 mg, 1.46 mmol in DMF 10 mL and glacial acetic acid 2 mL was treated with lead tetraacetate 714 mg, 1.61 mmol. and warmed to 350 for 40 minutes. After cooling to room temperature, the DMF and acetic acid were removed under vacuum and the residue triturated with ether 100 mL . The ether layer was washed with aqueous perchloric acid, saturated NaRC03, brine, and dried over MgSO4. Removal of the ether gave the hydroxyethylacetoxy azetidinone of Formula 9 R4 C in 84 yield 352 mg . The foregoing compound was then deprotected by treatment with trifluoroacetic acid to yield the deprotected compound of Formula 10 R4 CH3 . If desired, the protecting group may be removed prior to treatment with lead tetracetate.E. Chain Extension. A mixture of the hydroxyethylacetoxy azetidinone of Formula 10 R4 CH3 346 mg, 2 mmol and silyl enol ether of Formula II R R3 H, R5 benzyl 581 mg, 2 mmol , was dissolved in sieve dried dichloromethane 2 mL and added to a suspension of fused under vacuum zinc iodide 639 mg, 2 mmol in dichloromethane 6 mL . After stirring for 16 hours at 250 the mixture was poured into saturated MaHC03 50 sL and extracted with ethylacetate 200 mL . The ethylacetate layer was washed with brine, dried over MgSO4, and concentrated to an oil. Chromatography on silica gel gave the compound of Formula 12 R2sR3 E, R4 CH3, R5 benzyl in 89 yield 590 mg . F. Preparation of SR, 6S Benzyl 6 R l hydroxy ethyl 1 azabicyclo 3.2.0 heptan 3,7 dione 2 carboxylate. A suspension of 35,4R 3 R l hydroxy ethyl 4 3 benzyloxycarbonyl 2 oxo 3 diazopropyl azetidin 2 one 50 mg, 0.15 mmol and rhodium Il acetate 0.1 mg in dry benzene 3 mL was deoxygenated by bubbling through nitrogen for 10 minutes.The mixture was then heated to 780 for 1 hour.During heating the solid starting material gradually went into solution. The mixture was then cooled, filtered to remove the catalyst, and the filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to yield SR, 65 benzyl 6 R 1 hydroxyethyl 1 azabicyclo 3.2.0 heptan 3,7 dione 2 carboxylate, 45 mg. 98 as a colorless oil.G. Preparation of p Nitrobenzyloxy carbonylamino ethanethiol. To 600 mL diethyl.ether St20 75 mL H20 in an ice bath with stirring was added 3.2 g cysteamine hydrochloride mw 114 28.1 mmole . A solution of 7.14 g NaHC03 mw 84, 85 mmole in 75 mLH2O was added. The ice bath was removed, and at room temperature a solution of 6.75 g p nitrobenzylchloro formate mw 216 31.3 mmole in 270 mL Et2O was added dropwise over a period of of one hour. After 10 additional minutes, the layers were separated.The ether layer was extracted with. 150 mL 0.25 N HCl, and then with 200 mL brine. Each aqueous layer was then backwashed successively with 100 mL Et2O. The combined Et2O layers were dried over anhydrous MgS04 filtered, and concentr.atedunder a N2 stream. The crystalline residue was slurried in a small amount of ether, filtered, apd the pale yellow crystals were dried under high vacuum to sive 4.7 g.p nitrobenzytoxyzarbonylaminoethanethiol 65 yield .H. Preparation of 5R,6S Benzyl 3 2 p nitrobenzyl oxycarbonyl amino ethylthiCrj 6 I R l hydrqxy ethyl 1 azabicyclo 3,2,0 hept 2 en 7 one 2 carboxylate. 5R,5S Benzyl 6. R 1 bydroxyethyl 1 azabicylco 3,2,0 heptan 3,7 dione 2 carboxylate 45 mg, 0.147 mmol was dissolved in acetonitrile 3 mL and the resulting solution was cooled to 00.Diisopropylethylamine 22 mg, 0.17 mmol was added by syringe and the resulting solution was stirred at 0 for 1 minute prior to the addition of a solution of freshly recrystallized p toluene sulfonic anhydride 51 mg, 0.156 mmol in dry acetonitrile 1 mL . The resulting solution was stirred at 0. for 1 hour to provide 5R, 6S benzyl 3 p toluenesulfonyloxy 6 R 1 hydroxyethyl 1 azabicyclo 3.2.0 hept 2 en 7 one 2 carboxylate, then cooled to 25 . Diisopropylethylamine 80.5 mg, 0.624 mmol was added by syringe followed shortly thereafter by a solution of N p nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl aminoethanethiol 40 mg, 0.156 mmol in l mL of dry acetonitrile. The reaction mixture was then stored in a refrigerator for 16 hours.The mixture was diluted with 25 mL of ethyl acetate washed with brine and dried over magnesium sulfate. Solvents were removed in vacuo to yield a yellow oil which was chromatographed on a silica gel plate ethyl acetate to yield 5R, 6S benzyl 3 2 p nitro benzyloxycarbonyl amino ethylthio 6 R R l hydroxyethyl 1 azabicyclo 3,2,0 hept 2 en 7 dione 2 carboxylate as a yellow oil. I. Preparation of Thienamycin. A mixture of N p nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl thienamycin benzyl ester 9.5 mg, 0.017 mmol and 10 Pd C Bolhofer type in tetrahydrofuran 2 mL , 0.1 M dipotassium hydrogen phosphate solution 1.4 mL and 2 propanol 0.2 mL was hydrogenated at 40 psi on theParr shaker for 30 minutes. The mixture was then filtered and the catalyst was washed with water 3 x 3 mL. The combined filtrate and washings were extracted with ethyl acetate ethyl ether then concentrated to zV3 mL and lyophilized. The resulting white powder is identical to natural thienamycin in all respects. EXAMPLE 2 Dianion Alkylation, Oxidation, and Stereospecific ReductionA. Dianion Alkylation. The chiral acid of Formula 2 690 mg, 3 mmol in dry TEF 6 mL at 0 was added to a 0 solution of 2.07 equivalents of lithium diisopropyl amide 6.2 mmol in TBF 2 mL under nitrogen. The solution was then allowed to stir for 35 minutes during which time its temperature increased to 25 . The solution was then recooled to 00. At this point the 0 dianion solution was treated with excess acetaldehyde 0.5 mL and stirred for 10 minutes during which time the temperature rose to 25 . After recooling to 0 the mixture was acidified with aqueous citric acid and then partitioned between ether and water. Drying and evaporation of the ethereal layer gave the hydroxyethylformic acid compound of Formula 8A R4 CH3 as an oily mixture of hydroxyl epimers 734 mg, 90 . B. Oxidation. The epimeric hydroxyethylformic acid compounds of Formula 8A R4 CH3 676 mg 2.47 mmol were dissolved in ether 15 mL , diluted with petroleum ether 5 mL and cooled to 20 . To this solution was added dropwise 5 mL of a 2 MolarNa2Cr207 solution 100 g, Na2Cr207, 300 mL H20 136 g H2S04, mixture diluted to 500 mL total volume with H20 . After stirring at 200C for 1.5 hours the mixture was partitioned between ether and ice water. The ethereal layer was dried and evaporated to yield the acetylformic acid compound of Formula 6 R4 CE3 as an oil 430 mg, 64 . C. Stereospecific Reduction. A solution of the acetylformic acid compound of Formula fi R4 CH3 88 mg, 0.32 mmol in ether 5 mL was cooled to .780 and treated first with magnesium trifluoroacetate 425 mg and then with diisopropylamine borane 80 mg in ether 1 mL . The mixture was stirred for 1 hour during which time its temperature rose to 250. After acidification with aqueous citric acid the resulting mixture was partitioned between dichloromethane and water followed by drying and evaporation to give an oil in 85 yield. The NMR.spectra indicated that only theR,S,S isomer of Formula 8 R4 CH3 was present.D. The R,S,S isomer of Formula 8 is then treated as described in steps D through H of ExamPle 1 to yield thienamycin. EXAMPLE 3 Alternate Synthesis of Triethylamine Salt of Azetidinone Formic Acid of Formula CA. Preparation of N,O,O Tristrimethylsilylaspartate. L Aspartic acid 13.31 g, 100 mmol was suspended in hexamethyldisilazane 60 mL and treated with concentrated E2S04 4 drops . After refluxing 1250C for 16 hours the excess hexamethyldisilazane was removed in vacuo to yield the trisilyl aspartate, N,O,O trismethylsilylaspartate, 32.9 g, 948 , The liquid product could be distilled b.p. 84 934C a 0.05 mm.B. Preparation of Triethylamine Salt of Azetidinone Formic Acid of Formula C. The trisilylaspartate 4.786 g, 13.688 mmol in ether 80 mL was cooled to OOC and then added via cannula to a solution of t butyl magnesium chloride 9 mL of 2.3 M in Et20t 20.7 mmol in ether 10 mL at OoC. The mixture was warmed to 250C and allowed to stir 4 hours. After recooling to OOC approximately 40 mL of Dowex 50 resin acidic were added and the mixture was extracted with water. The aqueous layers were washed with CCl4 and assayed byHPLC. Yield 700 mg, 44 . Isolation was achieved by treatment with Et3N and removal of water to give the stable triethylamine salt of azetidinone formic acid of Formula C. EXAMPLE 4Synthesis of N t butyldimethylsilyl Azetidinone Formic Acid of Formula 2 A solution of the triethylamine salt of azetidinone formic acid of Formula C 650 mg, 5.6 mmol in DMF 8 mL was cooled to 0 C and treated with triethylamine 5.6 mmol and t butyldimethylsilyl chloride 11.76 mmo1 . After stirring at OOC for 1 hour the DMF was removed under vacuum and the residue was dissolved in ether.The ether layer was washed with 1N HC1, H20, brine, dried over MgS04, filtered and concentrated to yield crystallineN silyl acid of Formula 2 1.259 g, 98 . 1a 25 740 c l, CHCl3 , m,po 143 1450C. EXAMPLE 5 Synthesis of Epimeric Mixture of Deprotected Hydroxy Acetates of Formwla 1OA and Conversion to Hydroxy Acetates of Formulas 9 and 10 A. Preparation of Epimeric Mixture of N Protected Hydroxy Acetates of Formula 9A. The epimeric mixture of hydroxyethyl formic acids of Formula 8A R4 CH3 7e47 g, 27.3 mmol in DMF 137 mL and glacial acetic acid 27 mL was treated with lead tetraacetate 18.17 g, 41 mmol and warmed to 320C for 1.5 hours. After cooling to room temperature the DMF and acetic acid were removed under vacuum and the residue was triturated with ether 150 mL . After filtering the insoluble lead salts, the ether filtrate was washed with brine 125 mL , dried MgSO4 , and concentrated to an oil. The oil was dissolved in petroleum ether, washed with brine, dried, and concentrated to give the epimeric mixture of hydroxy acetates of Formula 9A R4 CH3 5.51 g, 70 . 8. Preparation of Epimeric Mixture of Deprotected Hydroxy Acetates of Formula lOA. One equivalent of the epimeric mixture of hydroxy acetates of Formula 9A R4 CE3 was treated at OOC with 1 equivalent of t butylammonium fluoride in tetrahydrofuran THF and 2 equivalents of acetic acid. Removal of the TEF followed by silica gel chromatography gave the solid epimeric mixture of hydroxy acetates of formula lOA R4 CH3 . C. Direct Preparation of Deprotected Hydroxv Acetates of Formula lOA from Protected Hydroxy Acetates of Formula 8A. Carrying out the reaction of Step A at 70 750C effected concurrent desilylation of the lactam nitrogen to give the eoimeric mixture of hydroxy acetates of Formula lOA. D. Preparation of Enantiomerically Pure Protected Keto Acetate of Formula 19. A solution of the epimeric hydroxyethyl acetoxy azetidinones of Formula 9A in dichloromethane 11.7 g, 40.7 mmol, in 50 mL CE2C12 was added to a suspension of pyridinium chlorochromate 17.55 g, 81.4 mmol and anhydrous sodium acetate 1.67 g, 20.35 mmol in CE2C12 100 mL at room temperature. After 12 hours the mixture was diluted with 400 mL of ether and filtered through Florasil, After removal of the solvents in vacuo lQ.l g of a single, enantiomerically pure keto acetate of Formula 19 wÅas isolated 86 .E. Preparation of Enantiomerically Pure Deprotected Keto Acetate of Formula 20. A solution of the epimeric hydroxyethyl azetidinones of Formula lOA in dichloromethane 20 mmol in 20 mL CE2C12 was added to a suspension of pyridinium chlorochromate 8.77 g, 40 mmol and anhydrous sodium acetate 0.84 g, 10 mmol in CR2C12 50 ml at room temperature. After 8 hours the mixture was diluted with 200 ml of ether and filtered through a pad of Florasil. After removal of the solvents in vacuo the keto acetate of Formula 20 was isolated in 74 yield. F. Preparation of Hydroxyacetate of Formula 10. A solution of the chiral keto acetate of Formula 19 10cO g, 35 nol in anhydrous ether 300 mL was cooled to 78 C and treated with ethereal magnesium trifluoroacetate 86 mL of 2M solution . After stirring 5 minutes the mixture was treated with a solution of diisopropylamine borane 6.0 g in ether 95 mL .The 78 C cooling bath was replaced with an ice water bath after 10 minutes and the mixture was stirred for 4U minutes. At this time cold IN HC1 200 mL was added and the mixture extracted. The aqueous layer was washed with ether 2 x 100 mL and the combined organic layers were neutralized with aqueous NaHCO3. After washing with brine 200 mL the ether layer was dried MgS04 and concentrated to an oil 9.55 g . The oily hydroxyacetate 9 from above was dissolved in THF 40 mL , cooled to 0 C and treated with glacial acetic acid 3.5 mL followed by tetrabutylammonium fluoride 33 mL of 1M solution in THY . After 1 hour at OOC the mixture was concentrated to an oily mass and purified on silica gel to yield 4.2 g 69 from starting compound of Formula 19 of crystalline hydroxyacetate of Formula 10 MP 109 1130C , talD 86 , c 0.5, CHC13 . EXAMPLE 6 Synthesis of Chain Extended Hvdroxyethyl Acetoxy Azetidinone of Formula 12A. Preparation of Benzyl 3 Oxopentanoate Following the procedure of Weiler, J. Am.Chem. Soc. 1974, 96, 1082, benzyl acetoacetate, 7.68 g 40 mmol was added dropwise to a OOC suspension of sodium hydride 2.1 g of 50 dispersion, 42 mmol inTEE 100 mL . After stirring for 10 minutes n butyl lithium 16 mL of 2.5 M in hexane was added and the mixture was aged for an additional 10 minutes. At this time iodomethane 2.74 mt, 44 mmol in THF 4 mL was added dropwise and the mixture aged 1 hour while slowly warming to room temperature. Work up was achieved by quenching at OOC with 1N EC1, extracting with ether, washing the ether with aqueous NaBC03, brine, and drying with MgSO4. Removal of the solvent yielded benzyl 3 oxopentanoate. B. Preparation of Benzyl 2 Diazo 3 Oxopentanoate. Following the procedure described in U.S.Patent 4,284,575 a 0 C mixture of benzyl 3 oxopentanoate 1.05 g, 5.1 mmol napthalene 2 sulfonylazide 1.306 g, 5.6 mmol , and triethylamine 0.76 mL, 5.4 mmol in acetonitrile 6 mL was aged overnight 0 25 C . After dilution with ether, washing with aqueous H3PO4, aqueous NaHCO3, brine, drying MgSO4 , and concentration, the oily product was chromatographed on silica gel 4 1 hexane EtOAc to give 975 mg 828 of the benzyl 2 diazo 3 oxopentanoate. NMR CC14 J 1.2, 3H t, J 7.5 Hz 2.9, 2H q, J 7.5 Hz 5.3, 2H S 7.3, 5H S . C. Preparation of Silyl Enol Ether of Benzyl 2 Diazo 3 Oxopentanoate. A solution of benzyl 2 diazo 3 oxopentanoate 330 mg, 1.42 mmol in THF 1.2 ml was added to a 780C solution of tetramethylethylenediamine TMEDA 0.28 mL , hexamethyldisilazane 0.37 mL , and n butyl lithium 0.71 ml of 2e5 M in THF 12 mL . After 10 minutes chlorotrimethyl silane 0.23 mL was added and the mixture warmed slowly to 250C. After 1 hour at 25 C the mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the residue triturated with hexane. The hexane insoluble material was removed by filtration and the filtrate was concentrated to yield 394 mg 91 of the oily silyl enol ether.NMR CDCl3 1.6, 3H d, J ç 7 Hz , 5.1, 2H S 5.1, 1H q, J 7 Hz , 7.2, 5H S . D. Preparation of Chain Extended Hydroxy Ethyl Acetoxy Azetidinone of Formula 12 A mixture of the hydroxyethyl acetoxy azetidinone of Formula 10 112 mg, 0.65 mmol and silyl enrol ether of benzyl 2 diazo 3 oxopentanoate 394 mg, 1.3 mmol was dissolved in sieve dried dichloromethane 2 mL and added to a suspension of fused under vacuum zinc chloride 55 mg, 0.4 mmol in dichloromethane 2 mL . After refluxing gently for 12 hours, the mixture was poured into saturated NaHC03 50 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 100 mL . The ethyl acetate layer was washed with brine, dried over MgSO4, and concentrated to an oil. Chromatography on silica gel gave the compound of Formula 12 in 77 yield. EXAMPLE 7EMI28.1 To a solution of 5 diazo 4,6 diketo 2,2 dimethyl 1,3 dioxane diazo Meldrum s acid ofFormula I 170.13 g, 1 mole in THF 250 ml is added p nitrobenzyl alcohol 153.14 g, 1.0 mole . The mixture is stirred at 250C for 8 hours, diluted with ether 500 mL , the crystalline product removed by filtration, and vacuum dried to yield 223 g 84 of the diazo half acidoester of Formula 15 wherein R6 is H and R5 is p nitrobenzyl.EMI29.1 A solution of the diazo half acid ester ofFormula II 2.652 g, 10 mmol in dichloromethane 10 X is cooled to 0 C, treated with triethylamine 1.4 mL, 10 mmol , and then the R,R,R 4 acetoxy 3 1 hydroxyethyl 2 azetidinone of formula 10 is added.After stirring at 25 C for 4 hours, the reaction mixture is diluted with CH2Cl2 50 mL , washed with brine 25 mL , and dried Na2SO4 . After concentration the residual oil is chromatographed on silica gel to yield the diazo malonate of formula 16 2.16 g, 57 as a pale yellow solid, wherein R1 isH, R4 is methyl and R5 is p nitrobenzyl.EMI29.2 The diazo malonate of Formula 16 378 mg, 1 mmol is suspended in dichloromethane 4 ml and treated with a catalytic amount of Rhodium II acetate dimer 5 mg . The slurry is stirred at 40 C until it becomes homogeneous. The resulting solution is cooled to 25 C and treated with hexanes to precipitate the product. Filtration and washing with hexanes gives the compound of Formula 17 343 mg, 98 , wherein R1 is H, R4 is methyl and R5 is nitrobenzyl. EMI30.1 A solution of the oxapenem compound ofFormula 17 343 mg, 0.98 mmol in dichloromethane is treated with diisopropylethylamine 0.174 ml, 1.0 mmol and diphenylchlorophosphÅate 268 mg, 0.99 mmol . The resulting solution of V is used without modification.EMI30.2 The above solution of compound V is treated with diisopropylethyl amine 0.174 ml, 10 mmol and the N protected cysteamine VI 25h mg, 1.0 nol . The mixture is stirred at 25 C for 14 hours until all of the product precipitates. The crystalline bis protected oxapenem of Formula 28 is isolated by filtration and washed with CS2C12 hexane 1 1 to give 492 mg 0.81 mmol, 83 .EMI31.1 The bis protected oxapenem of Formula 28 492 mg, 0.81 mmol is mixed with 10 Pd C, THF 100 mL , , 0.1 dipotasstum hydrogen phosphate solution 70 mL and 2 propanol 10 mL . This mixture is hydrogenated at 40 psi on a Parr Shaker for 40 minutes. The mixture is then filtered and the catalyst is washed with water 2 x 100 mL The combined filtrate and washings are extracted with ethylacetateoethyl ether then the aqueous layer is concentrated to 100 mL and lyophilized to yield the oxapenem of Formula 18a as a white solid. EXAMPLE 8Synthesis of Methyl Compound of Formula 14 fromN Deprotected Compound of Formula 10 A solution of the O t butyldimethylsilyl azetidinone compound of Formula 10 wherein RI is t butyldimethylsilyl and R4 is methyl 14.4 mg, 0 .05 mmol in anhydrous CH2C12 0.05 ml was cooled in a dry ice Me2CO bath under a N2 atmosphere. Silylenol ether of Formula 13 wherein R and R3 are methyl and R2 is H 25 p1, 0.15 mmol and Me3SiOTf 10 1, 0.055 mmol were added and the solution allowed to gradually warm to room temperature. After 3 hours, TLC showed some starting material.After 6 hours, the solution was diluted with EtOAc, washed with 5 Narc03 and brine, dried with MgSO4, filtered, and evaporated in vacuo to a white solid 13.5 mg, 86 . NMR showed a clear 1 1 mixture of a and 8 methyl products of Formula 14 wherein R1 is t butyldimethylsilyl, R4 is methyl,R2 is H, and R and R3 are each methyl. No starting material or N silyl products were apparent. EXAMPLE 9 Synthesis of Methyl Compound of Formula 14 from N Protected Compound of Formula 10 ZnI2 13.8 mg, 0.043 mmol was fused under a N2 atmosphere. After cooling to room temperature the ZnI2 was treated with a solution of the N trimethylsilyl protected compound of Formula 9 wherein RI is t butyl dimethylsilyl, R4 is methyl, and P trimethylsilyl 31 mg, 0.086 mmol in anhydrous CH2C12 430 pl and with silyl enol ether of Formula 13 wherein R and R3 are methyl andR2 is H 40 111, 0.25 mmol .The resulting mixture was stirred vigorously at room temperature for 2 hours, then diluted with EtOAc, washed with 5 NaHCO3 and brine, dried with MgSO4, and evaporated in vacuo to a clear oil 31.2 mg . The crude product was dissolved in anhydrousTHF 130 p1 and cooled in an ice bath under a N2 atmosphere. HOAc 9.8 1, 0.17 mmol and 1M Bu4NF 86 l were added and the solution was kept at 0 for 1 hour. The solution was diluted with EtOAc, washed with H20, 5 NaHCO3 and brine, dried with MgS04, filtered, evaporated in vacuo and stripped with toluene to provide an off white semi solid 24 mg . Analysis of the NMR spectrum revealed a 5 4 mixture of a and methyl products having the same composition as for example 8. EXAMPLE 10 Synthesis of Methyl Compound of Formula 14 from N Deprotected Compound of Formula 10 ZnI2 8.0 mg, 0.025 mmol, freshly fused under a N2 stream was suspended in hydrous CE2C12 250 1 and treated with the acetoxy azetidinone of Formula 10 wherein R1 t butyldimethylsilyl and R4 is methyl 14.4 mg, 0.05 mmol and the silyl enol ether of Formula 13 wherein R andR3 are methyl and R2 is H 25 iil, 0.15 mmol .The resulting mixture was vigorously stirred at room temperature for 70 minutes then diluted with EtOAc, washed with 5 NaHC03 and brine, dried with MgS04, filtered and evaporated in vacuo to a clear oil 19 mg . NMR analysis indicated a clean mixture of theN trimethyl silylated starting material and theN trimethylsilyl a and B methylmethoxy carbonyl products in a ratio of 20 63 17. The crude product was dissolved in anhydrous THF 75 p1 and cooled in an ice bath under a N2 atmosphere. HOAc 5.7 , 0.1 mmol and 1M BU4NF TEF 50 p1 were added and the solution was kept in an ice bath for 1 hour. The solution was diluted with EtOAc, washed with E20 5 NaHCO3 and brine, dried over MgS04, filtered, and evaporated in vacuo to a white solid 11 mg . NMR showed a mixture consisting of about 198 starting material, 63 a Me product, and 18 8 Me product.The ratio of a to ss products of Formula 14 whereinR1 is t butyldimethylsilyl, R2 and R4 are methyl, and R3 is hydrogen, was about 3.5 1. EXAMPLE 11 Synthesis of Compound of Formula 21 Trityl mercaptan 27.6, 0.1 mmol and the azetidinone compound of Formula 10 wherein R1 is H and R4 is methyl 17.5 mg, 0.l,mmol were added to an ice cold, stirring solution of NaOMe 5.4 mg, 0.1 mmol in anhydrous MeOH 1.0 mL . The cooling bath was removed and the solution was stirred 1 hour under a N2 atmosphere. The solution was diluted withMeOH and evaporated in vacuo. The residue was taken up in EtOAc, washed with brine, dried over MgS04, filtered and evaporated in vacuo to give an oil 52 mg . The crude product was chromatographed on a I mm x 20 x 20 cm SG GF plate using EtOAc as the developing solvent.The major UV visible band was removed and eluted with EtOAc to give the 4 SC03 azetidinone of formula 21 wherein R1 is H and R4 is CH3 as an oil 77 which slowly solidified on standing. EXAMPLE 12 Synthesis of C ompound of Formula 26 To a stirred suspension of 1.83 g of the compound of Formula 23 R5 nitrobenzyl, R1 w g nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl in 15 mL sieve driedCH2C12 at room temperature is added sequentially 347 mg of neat ethylchlorodithioformate and then 212 mg of pyridine. The mixture is stirred at room temperature under N2 for 1.5 hours. The insolubles are filtered off, and the filtrate is washed well with EtOAc, and partitioned between EtOAc ice H20 2.5N aqueous HCl. The organic phase is separated, washed with saturated NaCl, saturatedNaHCO3, dried over Na2504, filtered and evaporated and dried in vacuo to a dark foam, overnight.The product is purified by chromatography on 50 g EM 60 silica gel, packed in toluene and eluted with toluene EtOAc, 3 1 to give 1.5 g of desired product of Formula 26 R5 nitrobenzyq, R1 nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl as a yellow foam. EXAMPLE 13 Synthesis of Compound of Formula 2Ç To a stirred solution of the compound ofFormula 22 R1 t butylmethylsilyl, R5 nitrobenzyl in 90 mL MeOH and 22.5 mL CH2C12 is added at room temperature 2.08 mL 2.04 g, 1.48 eq., 2.58 X 1012 moles of neat pyridine and then 139.4 mL of 0.15 M AgNO3 in MeOH solution 2.09 X 1012 moles, 1.2 equivalents . The mixture is stirred at room temperature under N2 for 0.5 hour and then concentrated to a dark solution. The concentrate is partitioned between CH2CI2 ice H20 and the organic phase was separated, dried over Na2SO4, filtered, and evaporated and dried in vacuo. The above residue is dissolved in 125 ml ofCE2C12 and stirred at room temperature. To the stirred solution there is added 1.4 mL 1.38 q, 1.74 x 10 2 moles, 1 equivalent of neat pyridine and then 2.25 mL 2.92 g, 2.09 x 102 moles, 1.2 equivalents of ethyldithiochloroformate. The mixture is stirred at room temperature under N2 for 0.5 hour and then the insolubles are filtered off throughCelite and washed well with CH2C12. The filtrate is evaporated and the residue partitioned between EtOAc ice H20 conc. HCl. The organic phase is separated, washed with saturated NaCI, ice cold dilute aqueous NaHC03, and again with saturated Nail. The product is dried over anhydrous Na2504, filtered, evaporated, and dried in vacuo overnight. The dark residue is purified by column chromatography on 500 mg EM 60 silica gel packed in CE2C12, and eluted initially with CH2C12, then with 2 liters CH2C12 EtOAc 20 5 and finally with 9 liters CH2Cl2 EtOAc 10 1 to give 8.97 g of yellow product wherein R1 and R5 correspond to the substituents in the starting material.