# Sealing glasses for electrochemical, electrical, electronic, and optical applications and production of seals between such glasses and base glasses.

## Abstract
A sealing glass capable of forming strong, non porous seals with glasses containing at least 10 by weight of an alkali metal oxide such as are used in the fabrication of the glass membranes utilized in sodium sulfur and potassium sulfur batteries consists essentially, expressed in mole per cent on the oxide basis as calculated from the batch, of about 3 30 R₂O and 60 95 B₂O₃, wherein R₂O consists of at least one alkali metal oxide selected from the group of K₂O, Rb₂O, and Cs₂O, the sum of R₂O B₂O₃ constituting at least 70 mole percent of the total composition, suitable for sealing to a base glass containing at least 10 by weight of an alkali metal oxide having a smaller alkali metal than an alkali metal oxide in said sealing glass, said sealing glass having a softening point below the annealing point of the glass to be sealed and a coefficient of thermal expansion closely compatible with that of the base glass. In the sealing glasses Al₂O₃ may be substituted for up to one half the B₂O₃ content on a molar basis. Exchange of large alkali metal ions from the sealing glass for the smaller alkali metal ions of the membrane glass may take place.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A sealing glass consisting essentially, expressed in mole percent on the oxide basis as calculated from the batch, of about 3 30 R20 and 60 950 o 13203, whereinR20 consists of at least one alkali metal oxide selected from the group of K20, Rb20, and Cs2O, the sum of R2O B2O3 constituting at least 70 mole percent of the total composition, suitable for sealing to a base glass containing at least 10i by weight of an alkali metal oxide having a smaller alkali metal than an alkali metal oxide in said sealing glass, said sealing glass having a softening point below the annealing point of the glass to be sealed and a coefficient of thermal expansion closely compatible with that of the base glass. 2. A sealing glass as claimed in claim 1 characterisd in that it also contains at least one of the following, namely up to 20 Na2O, up to 5 of alkaline earth metal oxides, up to 10 SiO2, up to 5 Cl, and up to 5 F. 3. A sealing glass as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 characterised in that Al2O3 is substituted for up to one half the B2O3 content on a molar basis. 23 4. A sealing glass as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3 characterised in that the base glass is a conventional soda lime glass. 5. A sealing glass according to claim 2 characterised in that the sealing glass has a softening point below 4500, the maximum R20 content is 20 , and the base glass has a composition within the Na20 B 203 system used as a membrane in sodium sulfur batteries. 6. A sealing glass as claimed in claim 5 characterised in that the sealing glass consists essentially, expressed in mole percent on the oxide basis, of 4 9.5 R2O and 87.3 91.1 B2O3. 7. A process for forming a strong, non porous seal between a sealing glass consisting essentially, expressed in mole percent on the oxide basis, of about 3 30 R20, wherein R20 consists of at least one alkali metal oxide selected from the group of K2 0, Rb2O, and Cs2O, and 60 950 B203, the sum of R20 13203 constituting at least 70 mole percent of the total composition, and a base glass having a composition containing at least 10 by weight of an alkali metal oxide consisting of a smaller alkali metal than an alkali metal oxide in said sealing glass, said sealing glass having a softening point below the annealing point of the base glass and a coefficient of thermal expansion closely compatible with that of the base glass, said process comprising bringing said base glass at a temperature where the sealing glass will manifest a viscosity between 1071013 poises and maintaining that contact for a sufficient length of time to cause an exchange of large alkali metal ions from the sealing glass for smaller alkali metal ions in the base glass. 8. A process as claimed in claim 7 characterised in that the glass also contains at least one of the following, namely up to 20 Na2O, up to 5 of alkaline earth metal oxide, up to 10 SiO2, up to 5 C1, and up to 5 F. 9. A process as claimed in claim 8 characterised in that the sealing glass has a softening point below 4500C, the maximum R20 content is 20 , and said base glass has a composition within the Na20 B 203 system used as a membrane in sodium sulfur batteries. 10. A process as claimed in claim 9 characterised in that the sealing glass consists essentially, expressed in mole percent on the oxide basis, of 4 9.5 R2O and 87.3 91.1 B2O3.

## Description
SEALING GLASSES FOR ELECTROCHEMICAL, ELECTRICAL, ELECTRONIC, AND OPTICAL APPLICATIONS AND PRODUCTION OF SEALS BETWEEN SUCH GLASSES AND BASE GLASSES The present invention relates to glasses of utility in forming seals with base glasses and seals as formed. The glasses of the present invention are designed for making seals to vitreous materials of high alkali metal content such as are required for certain electrochemical, electrical, electronic, and optical applications. One example of an electrochemical application is the use of sodium ion conducting glass membranes or electrolytes in one form of sodium sulfur, high efficiency battery. Such glasses contain a high content of Na2O and require low temperature non distorting seals. In the electrical, electronic, and optical areas, there are similar requirements for sealing to flat soda lime glass substrates utilized for circuit boards or as transparent enclosures for display syStems, microcircuits, magnetic or optical storage matrices, solar energy conversion devices, etc. An application of particular interest for the present inventive glasses is for sealing to the sodium ion conducting glasses employed as solid electrolytes in sodiumsulfur batteries. In brief, such a battery comprises a liquid anode, a liquid or paste like cathode, and a solid electrolyte separator or membrane which is selectively permeable and which separates the anode and cathode. The anode consists of a molten alkali metal, an alkali metal amalgam, or a solution. The cathode consists of liquid sulfur and sulfides of the anode metal. The membrane is selectively permeable to the cations of the anode metal without transmitting, to any appreciable extent, other ions, neutral molecules, or electrons from either the anode or cathode.The anode, cathode, and membrane elements are customarily positioned within a liquid and vapor tight case, Commonly, liquid sodium has comprised the anode, a liquid sulfur sodium sulfide mixture, e.g,, a sodium polysulfide, has comprised the cathode, and the membrane has been formed from a sodium ion conductive ceramic, such as alumi a, or a glass. The use of sodium sulfide dissolved in, or in admixture with, liquid sulfur as the cathode has been found to be particularly useful since those two components form a wide range of mixtures that become liquid at relatively low temperatures, i.e., between about 2350 2850C, and demonstrate high electrical conductivity over a certain range of composition. Sodium and sulfur are readily available and relatively inexpensive, when compared with lead. Furthermore, batteries made therefrom yield several times more energy per unit weight than the active materials of lead and lead oxides in the conventional lead acid battery. Accordingly, the sodium sulfur battery has the potential to replace the leadacid battery in many applications. As described in United States Patent No. 3,679,480, one construction of an alkali metal sulfur battery contemplates an electrolyte separator membrane in the form of a bundle of very thin, hollow glass fibres capillaries sealed with open end into a common header. The capillaries are closed at the other end which is immersed into the molten alkali metal sulfide contained in the cathode chamber and are filled with the liquid alkali metal and in open communication with the anode compartment. The capillaries are prepared from a sodium ion conducting glass. The sealing glass completes the separation between the anodic and cathodic liquids while mechanically holding the capillaries together in a bundle. In order to obtain a good seal in that application, the sealing glass must fulfill the following three general requirements 1 the softening point of the sealing glass must be considerably below the strain point of the capillary glass to obtain a leak tight seal without thermal deformation of the capillaries during the sealing process 2 the coefficients of thermal expansion of the sealing glass and the capillaries should be well matched to insure a relatively stress free seal and 3 the seal must be strongly resistant to attach My liquid alkali metal and alkali metal sulfide during battery operation. A further property most desirable in the sealing glass is an annealing point slightly above the operating temperature of the battery .3OO0C to ensure seal stability against deformation caused by internal pressure differences occurring during battery operation. In conventional glass sealing, the sealing glass has to be heated to a temperature at which it is sufficiently fluid to wet the glass to which it is to be sealed in order to form a strong bond to it. Either one of two general mechanism is involved in forming a bond 1 simple surface adhesion or 2 the formation of a common boundary layer through a diffusion process. In order to achieve the fluidity necessary for good wetting and for a tight bond, the sealing glass must be heated well above the softening point thereof, i.e., to a temperature at which the glass manifests a viscosity less than 107 poises and, preferably, as low as 102 104 poises.This practice has several disad witages for example a the fluid sealing glass flows out of place or deforms unless it is contained and containment is not feasible in numerous applications b the glass to which the sealing glass is bonded must have a higher annealing temperature or strain point than the sealing temperature, i.e., the temperature at which the sealing glass has to be quite fluid, this factor making it necessary to have a large difference in viscosities existing between the two glasses which circumstance, in turn, eliminates many potentially useful combinations of glasses having but small differences in viscosities and c the depth of the boundary layer between the two glasses is extremely difficult to control. In general, a boundary layer will be formed which must be very thin and uniform in depth so as to minimize stresses which may be developed therein if the thermal expansion of the boundary layer does not closely match the thermal expansion of the two glasses being sealed together. In Table I there is gi ven the composition, and several physical properties, for a glass which has been employed as the membrane for a sodium sulfur storage battery and also for a sealing glass that has been used therewith. The glass compositions are tabulated in terms of weight percent on the oxide basis as calculated from the batch. The coefficient of thermal expansion Expansion is given for the range of room temperature R.T. , commonly about 250G, to 250 C. Table I Membrane Sealing Glass Na2O 27.8 4.5 3 SiO2 5.4 2.8NaCl 7 4.2Expansion xlO OC 124 126Softening Point C 532 396Annealing Point OC 456 280Strain Point OC 429 248 Those two glasses satisfy the three general requirements listed above for such glasses. It has been observed, netherless, that battery failure occurs after a relatively short period of operation and is usually the result of breakage of the membrane capillaries at the interface with the sealing glass.Customarily, a sealing temperature of about 3800C was utilized with that set of glasses but that temperature produced seals of only marginal quality, particularly in the case of larger 1 seal areas, with regard to leak tightness.However, it was noted that, where sealing temperatures in the neighborhood of 3900C 4000C were employed to improve leak tightness, many capillaries exhibited high brittleness at the seal. These observations led to the conclusion that either prolonged use at battery operating temperatures N3000C or excessive sealing temperatures cause some unexplained interaction between the sealing glass and the membrane glass resulting in mechanical weakness and eventual failure. It is an objective of the instant invention to provide a seal that can be made between glass bodies at relatively high viscosities, viz., within the range of about 107 1013 poises, i.e., between about the annealing point and softening point of the sealing glass, but below the strain point of the glass to be sealed, such that undesired deformation through viscous flow can be avoided. A complementary objective of the present invention is to provide operable compositions for glass bodies that can be sealed together at such high viscosities. A A specific objective of the subject i vei tion is to provide compositions for use as glass capillaries in sodiumsulfur batteries and sealing glasses therefor which can be sealed together at high viscosities. Those objectives can best be attained where the glass bodies to be sealed together have closely matched coefficients of thermal expansion and wherein there is a necessary minimum interdiffusion occurring between the two glasses to obtain a hermetic seal therebetween. Hence, for example, a sound seal can be prepared between any pair of glass bodies wherein the coefficient of thermal expansion of one glass closely approximates that of the other and wherein each glass contains either alkali metal or hydrogen or hydronium ions, provided that there is difference in the type of ions present in each glass.To illustrate, a Na ion containing glass can be sealed to a K ion containing glass and, if desired, the alkali metal ions can be mixed in each glass, i.e., a glass may contain both Na and Kf ions provided that the Na K ion ratios in the two compositions are dissimilar. Glass compositions containing two or more alkali metal ions mixed alkali glass exhibit a number of properties of interest for accomplishing the primary objective of the instant invention. For example, if one alkali metal is replaced by another in a glass composition, certain electrical and physical characteristics will demonatrate a maximum electrical resistivity, e.g. or a minimum vis cosity, e.g. at 50 replacement where the number of the two alkali metal atoms is equal. This mixed alkali effect of lowering viscosity can be utilized very advantageously in sealing an alkali metal containing glass to another alkali metal containing glass of otherwise like composition except for the identity of the alkali metal. The magnitude of the effect is dependent upon the quantity of alkali metal present which, desirably, will be at least 10 cationic percent of the composition.Of course, it will be apparent that other compositional variations can also be utilized to secure a lowering of viscosity which may be demanded for sealing glass applications. A good seal demands that hermaticity be achieved between the glasses with a minimum of residual mechanical stress. In order to minimize stress, the coefficient of thermal expansion of each glass must closely match and the reaction layer at the interface between the two ought to be as thin and as uniform in thickness as is possible.These desiderata can only be attained in a sealing process where a good initial contact between the parts to be sealed is achieved and the sealing time and temperature are well controlled and uniform throughout the area of the seal. In those instances where perfect mating of surfaces to insure good initial contact cannot be obtained, the desired low temperature sealing, i.e., at glass viscosities of 106 poises and higher, can only be accomplished utilizing external pressure to establish good contact. Such pressure can be applied via exterior force or by surface tension such as occurs in the case of frit sealing where the sealing glass is applied as a dispersion containing fine particles which sinter together to form the seal. The method of the invention for sealing is especially applicable for sealing the thousands of fine capillary tubes utilized in a sodium sulfur battery of the type described in Patent No. 3,476,602, supra. Because the glass compositions most prevalently used for the capillaries have been from the sodium borate field, seals grounded in an alkali metal ion exchange reaction are particularly useful. Those glasses exhibit a rather low annealing temperature 45O0C and the seal bonding them together must be firm at 3000 C, the operating temperature of the battery.Stated in another way, the sealing glass ought to demonstrate a viscosity of at least 1015 poises at 7000C but must be soft enough to permit sealing below 4500 C. These requirements render it diffucult, if not impossible, to compound a glass displaying viscosity temperature characteristics necessary for such application if seals are to be made at low glass viscosities as taught in the prior art, without even considering problems of deformation or containment. In order to better understand the above described breakage problem of thecap17 11ar. i s in the sodium sulfur batteries, a series of glasses was prepared having compositions in weight percent on the oxide basis, intermediate between the sealing glass and membrane capillary glass recited in Table I above, and those glasses are listed below in Table II. In like manner to the glasses listed in Table I, the coefficients of thermal expansion were measured over the range of R.T. to 25O0C. TABLE II A B C D DNa20 7.4 12.0 15.0 19.7 23.0B203 88.6 83.0 78.9 73.0 68.5SiO2 3.2 3.6 4.0 4.5 5.0NaCl 0.7 1.4 2.1 2.8 3.5Expansion x10 7 I C 95 70 62 75 110Softening Point OG 440 485 520 538 540 Inasmuch as the Na2O content was the principal variable the content thereof has been employed as the abscissa of the appended graph which constitutes Fig. 1 of the accompanying drawings wherein the coefficients of thermal expansion and the softening points are plotted for all the compositions curves a and b, respectively . Curve a illustrates that the coefficients of thermal expansion of the sealing glass and the capillary glass are substantially identical but each of the intermediate glasses has a lower coefficient.Although this phenomenon has not been rigourously explained, it is believed to be caused via variations of coordination of boron atoms with Na2O content, which has been termed the boron anomaly , as reported by Briscoe and Warrens Journal American CeramicSociety, 21, 287 1936 . This phenonmenon is also expressed by the tendency to phase separate which is evidenced in all compositions containing about 5 25 Na2O Shaw and Uhlman,Journal American Ceramic Society, 51. 379 1968 . Whatever the explanation, it is evident from the presence of the minimum in the coefficient of thermal expansion values that fracture of the capillaries will occur through thermo mechanical stress if Na ions are removed from the capillary glass. This action can take place through sodium ion migration by exchange with hydrogen ions, either through the contact with the low Na2O content sealing glass of higher hydroxyl ion content, or by the presence of crystalline interfacial material occasionally formed by devitrification, hydration, or some process related contamination on the sealing glass surface.Curve b demonstrates that the loss of some Na2O from the capillary glass can yield glasses which have viscosities as high, if not higher, than the capillary glass such that stresses cannot be annealed out at the battery operation temperature of 3000 C. As was observed previously, Na ion migration may occur when the temperature is relatively high as, for example, during the sealing process or, if a long period of time is allowed, during the operating life of the battery, especially where spots of local over temperature develop. Hence, the loss of Na ions from the capillary glass presents a very real problem with regard to the life of the battery. The present invention alleviates that problem through the use of alkali metal borate sealing glasses exhibiting coefficients of thermal expansion closely compatible with those of the capillary glasses and containing alkali metal ions other than Na ions, such that an interdiffusion by exchange of alkali metal ions can take place between the capillary glass and the sealing glass, thereby alleviating or eliminating other undesirable processes. Fig. 2 of the accompanying drawings schematically represents the changes in the coefficient of thermal expansion R.T. 2500 exhibited by K2O B203 and Cs20 13203 containing systems where the E20 and Cs20 are varied between 5 25 on the molar basis, those values representing the alkali metal oxide contents of the sealing glass and capillary glass, respectively. The minimum in the coefficient of thermal expansion characteristic of the sodium borate glasses leading to capillary brittleness was discussed above and demonstrated in Fig. 1. Fig. 2 illustrates that the minimum in the E20 B203 glass system is much less pronounced and is essentially absent in the Cs20 13203 glasses.The curve generated by the changes in coefficients of thermal expansion exhibited by glasses having compositions within the Rb20 B203 system falls between the two curves of FIGURE 2. Accordingly, the exchange of Na ions via interdiffusion from the capillary glass, with K , Rb , and or Cs ions from a borate based sealing glass containing such ions can take place with relatively little variation in the coefficient of thermal expansion between the sealing glass and capillary glass. In general, glass compositions containing at least two different alkali metal ions exhibit greater stability with respect to phase separation and or devitrification and manifest higher electrical resistivity the mixed alkali effect . In summary, then, a tight, mechanically stable seal can be made between two glasses containing different alkali metal ions. Accordingly, glasses which may be used as sealing glasses in accordance with the present invention will have base compositions within the general R20 B203 system and consist essentially, expressed in mole percent on the oxide basis as calculated from the batch, of about 3 30 R20 and 60 95 13203, wherein R20 consists of K20, Rb20, Cs2O, and mixtures thereof and wherein, optionally, A1203 may be substituted for up to one half of the 13203 content on a molar basis. Minor additions of compatible materials, e.g., SiO2,Na2O, alkaline earth metal oxides, C1, and F, may be included in the base composition to improve the melting and forming qualities of the glass and or to modify the physical properties thereof. Moreover, the presence of Na2O in the composition is important.The molar ratio R20 Na20 determines the viscosity of the glass whereas the total alkali metal oxide content R20 Nazi governs the thermal expansion of the glass. Based upon 2 those two factors, the Na2O level ranges from 0 20 mole percent. The content of SiO2 will generally not exceed 10 the total of the alkaline earth metal oxides will not exceed 5 , and individual amounts of C1 and F will commonly be less than 5 . Nevertheless,the total of all such extraneous additions will not exceed 30 mole percent and, most desirably, will be held below 20 . Stated in another manner, the sum of R2O B203 will constitute at least 70 of the total composition. From thermal expansion considerations, a Cs2O containing glass would be the most desirable. Unfortunately, however, the cost of cesium containing batch materials is very high.Rubidium containing materials suitable as batch ingredients are even more costly. Consequently, practical considerations have dictated the preferred compositions to hold the Cs2O content at a low level and to incorporate other alkali metal oxides, such as K20 in addition to Cs2O or to Na2O. where the glasses are to be employed in the sodium sulfur battery, the total R20 content will be limited to about 20 and Cs20 Na2O combinations are preferred because of the low diffusion coefficient of the cesium ion. This factor permits the formation of a very thin interdiffusion layer between the glasses which, as has been explained above, is highly desirable. Potassium ion containing glasses are preferred for such non battery applications as sealing to conventional soda lime glass.Such glasses, when containing cesium, are also useful in making seals with components of potassiumsulfur batteries as opposed to sodium sulfur batteries .The use of K ionwcontaining sealing glasses in sodiumsulfur batteries may lead to an exchange reaction taking place between E ions in the sealing glass and Na ions in the sulfur catholyte which, in turn, can result in an increase in electrical resistance in the sodium ion containing capillary glass through the mixed alkali effect discussed above.Inasmuch as the sealing glass ought to exhibit a viscosity of at least 1015 poises at 3000 C or stated another way, a strain point above 3000C, the softening points thereof will generally be in excess of 4000C. Nevertheless, the sealing will be undertaken at temperatures wherein the sealing glass will manifest a viscosity between about 107 1013 poises, i.e., between about the annealing point and softening point thereof. As regards prior art, United States Patent Nos. 3,829,331 and 3,877,995 disclose, respectively, glasses having compositions in the Na20 B2O3 halide system and K2O B2O3 halide system which were designed for use as membranes in sodium sulfur and potassium sulfur batteries, respectively.There is no discussion of sealing glasses to be used with those compositions and, most importantly, that the sealing glass should contain alkali metal oxides other than the Na2O or K,O in the membrane glass such that an interdiffusion of ions will occur during the sealing operation, thereby resulting in a firm seal. In Table III there are given the composition of several prepared glasses expressed in parts by weight on the oxide bases as calculated frqm the batch, illustrating the parameters of sealing glasses for use with alkali metal borate type membrane glasses such as are described in Patent Nos. 3,829,331 and 3,877,995 supra according to the invention. Because it is not known with which cation s the halides are associated, they are simply recorded in terms of the batch materials employed. The actual batch ingredients utilized may comprise any materials, either oxides or other compounds, which, when melted together with the other components, will be converted to the desired oxide in the proper proportions.The tabulated glasses represent laboratory runs but it will be appreciated that the compositions could be melted in large commercial glassmaking facilities. Inasmuch as the sum of the individual componefftstotals or approximately totals 100, for all practical purposes the constituents may be considered to be present in terms of weight percent. The batch ingredients were compounded, ballmilled together to assist in achieving a more homogeneous melt, and deposited into platinum crucibles. The crucibles were introduced into a furnace operating at 10000C, maintained therein for two hours with stirring, and then poured into slabs having dimensions of about 5 mm thickness which were immediately transferred to an annealer. Table III also lists the softening point S.P. in 0C and the coefficient of thermal expansion Exp. over the range of R.T. to 2500C as determined in accordance with methods conventional in the glass art. The expansion coefficients are tabulated in terms of xlO 7 C. Table IIIA set out the compositions of Table III in terms of mole percent as calculated to the nearest 0.1 Table III 1 2 3 4Na2O 1.7 16.0 8.7Cs2O 13.2 30.0 15.0 28.0 45.5 B2O3 82.6 67.9 82.4 50.1 41.8 23 8102 2.5 2.1 2.6 4.3 2.7NaCl 1.6 1.3 S.P. 398 412 384 500 469Exp. 136 136 141 125 136 6 7 8 9 10 11Na20 1.8 0.5 21.3 17.1 13.0 K20 2.7 2.7 4.5 8.7 14.2 19.5 13203 92.0 90.2 89.7 63.5 62.2 61.0SiO2 2.8 2.8 2.8 4.0 4.0 4.0NaF 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 S.P. 378 395 400 504 492 481Exp. 126 136 133 126 126 136 Table IIIA 1 2 3 4 5Na20 2.1 21.9 14.5 Cs2O 3.6 9.5 4.2 8.5 16.7 2 3 91.1 87.3 92.5 61.2 61.9 23 SiO2 3.2 3.1 3.4 6.1 7.5 NaCl 2.3 2.3 6 7 8 9 10 11Na20 2.0 0.6 23.3 19.1 14.8 K20 2.0 2.0 3.3 6.3 10.4 14.6 13203 90.7 88.8 88.8 61.9 61.8 61.7SiO2 3.2 3.2 3,2 4.5 4.6 4.2NaF 4.1 4.1 4.1 4.0 4.1 4.2 To illustrate the differences in sealing behaviour demonstrated by the glasses when compared with the sealing glass set out in Table I, polished pieces of the sealing glass and the membrane capillary glass were heated to 45000 in contact with each other under light pressure.The sealing glass listed inTable I fell away from the membrane glass upon cooling and an analysis of the surface of the sealing glass determined that the Na2O content thereof was unchanged. Attempts to fuse the two glasses together in a flame produced the same negative result in a more violent fashion. In contrast, the glasses accorded to the invention formed strong, non porous seals with the membrane glass. It will be appreciated that minor adjustments in glass composition are contemplated to minimize residual stress in the seal at any particular use temperature. Closely matching the coefficients of thermal expansion of the glasses involved is, obviously, a major step in that direction, but that action may not necessarily be adequate. This circumstance is partially the result of structural variations in borate glasses which are dependent upon the thermal history experienced by the glass during its formation, but it may also be caused by the method utilized in the sealing operation as well as such factors as impurities picked up during the sealing process. In accordance with the above description, it is possible to formulate sealing glass compositions for use with modified or basically different capillary glass compositions so long as such have a sufficiently high content at least 10 by weight of an alkali metal oxide different from an alkali metal oxide in the sealing glass to be responsive to the ion intereactionsdiscussed above. For example, the sealing method according to the invention may be used with conventional soda lime glasses, such as are utilized for windows, which contain about 15 by weight Na2O. Seals made in accordance with the method of the invention show the following advantages when compared with the use of sealing and membrane glasses containing the same alkali metal a the seals are more stable against phase separation b the seals demonstrate higher electrical resistivity c the depth of the boundary interface is controlled through the diffusion reaction d a graded seal behaviour in physical properties is obtained e the thermal expansion varies less with a mixed alkali seal than with Na2O alone f lower sealing temperatures are possible, thereby resulting in less thermal deformation g good control of glass viscosity is possible via the alkali metal oxide mixing ratio R20 Na2O and h independent control of the coefficient of thermal expansion of the sealing glass is possible through variations in the total alkali metal oxide content thereof R20 ,Na2O