# Method for extrusion of linear polyolefin materials.

## Abstract
In the extrusion of low density, linear polyolefin materials having high viscosities, wherein such materials are continuous ly fed to and through a rotary extruder having an extruder hous ing 10 defining a cylindrical interior and containing an extrud er screw 12 having helical screw flight s having solids con veying, melting and metering function, the improvement which comprises employing, on at least the root surfaces of screw threads only in the portion of said screw providing the solids conveying function, a surface coating of a low coefficient of friction material.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method for extrusion of low density, linear polyolefin materials having high viscosities, wherein such materials are continuously fed to and through a rotary extruder having an extruder housing defining a cylindrical interior and containing an extruder screw having helical screw flight s having solids conveying, melting and metering functions, characterized by employing, on at least the root surfaces of screw threads in only the portion of said screw, which provides the solids conveying function, a surface coating of a low coefficient of friction material. 2. The method of claim l, wherein said low coefficient material comprises a polytetrafluoroethylene material.

## Description
METHOD FOR EXTRUSION OF LINEAR POLYOLEFIN MATERIALS The present invention relates to a method for the extrusion of linear polyolefin material such as polyethylene. Conventional low density polyethylene has been historically polymerized in heavy walled autoclaves or tubular reactors at pressures as high as 5Q,OOQ psi and temperatures up to 300 C. The molecular structure of high pressure, low density polyethylene HP LDPE is highly complex. The permutations in the arrangement of their simple building blocks are essentially infinite. HP LDPE s are characterized by an intricate long chain branches have a dramatic effect on the melt rheology of these resins. HP LOP s also possess a spectrum of short chain branches, generally 1 to 6 carbon atoms in length. These short chain branches disrupt crystal formation and depress resin density. With recent developments in low pressure technology, low density narrow molecular weight distribution linear ethylene polymers can now be produced at low pressures and temperatures by copolymerizing ethylene with various alphaolefins. These low pressure LOPE LP LDPE resins generally possess little, if any, long chain branching. They are short chain branched with branch length and frequency controlled by the type and amount of comonomer used during polymerization. European Patent Publication No. 004,645 discloses that ethylene copolymers, having a density of 0.91 to 0.95, a melt flow ratio of 22 to 32 and a relatively low residual catalyst content can be produced in granular form, at relatively high productivities if the monomer s are copolymerized in a gas phase process with a specific high activity Mg Ti containing complex catalyst which is blended with an inert carrier material. European Patent Publication No. 004.647 discloses that ethylene copolymers, having a density of 0.91 to 0.96, a melt. flow ratio of 22 to 32 and a relatively low residual catalyst content can be produced in granular form, at relatively high productivities, if the monomer s are copolymerized in a gas phase process with a specific high activity Mg Ti containing complex catalyst which is impregnated in a porous inert carrier material.European Patent Publication No. 004,646 discloses that ethylene homopolymers having a density of about 0.958 to 0.972 and a melt flow ratio of about 22 to about 32 which have a relatively low residual catalyst residue can be produced at relatively high productivities for commercial purposes by a low pressure gas phase process if the ethylene is homopolymerized in the presence of a high activityMg Ti containing complex catalyst which is blended with an inert carrier material. The granular polymers thus produced are useful for a variety of end use applications. The polymers as produced, for example, by the processes of said applications using the Mg Ti containing complex catalyst possess a narrow molecular weight distribution, Mw Mn, of about 2.7 to 4.1. Over the years, film extrusion equipment has been optimized for the rheology of HP LDPE. The different molecular architecture of low pressure low density polyethylene LP LDPE result in a film processing behavior which requires different extrusion parameters. By way of background, conventional extruder screws commonly used forHP LDPE include an cylindrical barrel which may be heated or cooled at various locations along its length and a screw which extends longitudinally through the barrel. The screw has a helical land s on its surface which cooperates with the cylindrical internal surface of the barrel to define an elongated helical channel s .Although the pitch of the screw may vary along the length thereof, It is common at the present time to utilize screws of constant pitch wherein the pitch is square , that is, where the distance between equivalent locations on adjacent flights is equal to the diameter. The screw is rotated about its own axis to work the plastic material and feed it toward the outlet end of the barrel. An extruder screw ordinarily has a plurality of sections which are of configuration specially suited to the attainment of particular functions. Examples are soldis conveying or feed sections and metering sections, which are of basic importance and are present in nearly all extruders for handling thermoplastic polymers. Other extruder screws may be so designed as to provide the typical solids conveying, melting and metering functions without clear geometrical delineations of the sections which provide these functions. A typical extruder screw feed section extends beneath and forwardly from a feed opening where polymer in pellet or powder form is introduced into the extruder to be carried forward along the inside of the barrel by the feed section of the screw. In this section the channel depth of the screw is usually large enough to over feed the solid polymer. This is a desirable effect because the over feeding action serves to compact and pressurize the polymer particles and form a solid bed of advancing material. The working of the material generates heat, and melting of the polymer proceeds as the material is moved along the feed section of the screw. Actually, most of the melting occurs near the barrel surface at the interface between a thin melt film and the solid bed of polymer. This general pattern persists until a substantial portion of the polymer reaches the melted state. After some 40 to 70 percent of the polymer has been melted, solid bed breakup usually occurs, and at this time particles of solid polymer become dispersed in the polymer melt. From this point on, it often is advantageous to intimately mix the polymer melt with the unmelted material to accelerate melting and minimize local nonuniformities. An extruder screw metering section has as its special function the exertion of a pumping action on the molten polymer. Ordinarily the throughput achieved by a screw is thought of as being a function of the combination of the drag flowS and pressure flow effects of the metering section. Drag flow is basically the flow which results from the relative movement between the screw and the internal surface of the extruder barrel. It may be thought of as being proportional to the product of the average relative velocity and the channel cross sectional area. This drag flow component is directed toward the outletend of the screw. It may be increased by increasing the speed of the screw andlor by increasing the depth of the flow channel in the screw. Action in opposition from the reluctance of the material to flow through the restricted outlet opening at the end of the extruder passage. The speed of the screw does not directly affect the pressure flow component but of course it may afffect such factors as back pressure and material viscosity, which factors, in turn, affect significantly the pressure flow component. On the other hand pressure flow is directly affected by both the depth and length of the screw channel an increase In channel depth has a tendency to increase greatly the pressure flow component and an increase in channel length has a tendency to reduce this back flow component. In addition to the basic solids conveying and 11metering sections, an extruder screw also may include a number of other distinct sections. Nearly all screws include, for example, so called transition sections. Also a final downstream mixing section may preferably be employed. Over the years there has been a trend toward the use of extruders capable of high outputs. In many applications, various economies in production are possible where high extruder outputs can be obtained on a reliable basis. Although LP LDPE resins can be extruded on equipment designed for HP LDPE resins, such as described above, certain equipment modifications are often required in order to extrude the low pressure, high viscosity resins at optimum conditions and at rates comparable to the high pressure resins. This is particularly true during extrusion of LP LOPE which is subsequently processed into film by passage through the breaker plate of the extruder with conventional film forming dies as are well knwon to the art. Efficient, rapid solids conveying in extruders is critical to the economical perfonnance of conventional extrusion operations. Reductions in screw solids conveying efficiency will result in reduced production rates, higher melt temperatures, higher cooling costs, and reduced product quality. Solids conveying becomes especially important in the feeding of low bulk density resins, such as certain granulars, which directly result in reduced feeding by virtue of the lower bulk density. Thus, an improved extrusion process is required for employment in single and multi screw extruders to provide an increased solids conveying rate which may result from a controlled, selected reduction in the screw coefficient of friction. It has been found that, while the prior art has suggested the reduction of screw coefficient of friction throughout the entire length of the conveying screw, significant additional extrusion efficiency can be achieved by the reduction by a reduction of the screw coefficient of friction only in selected zones of the screw. More specifically, it as been found that reduction of screw coefficient of friction in the section of the screw which provides the solids conveying function alone provides an unexpected improvement in both specific extrusion rate SR as well as melt temperature MT by the extruder. In accordance with the present invention, the extrusion of low density, linear polyolefin materials having high viscosities, wherein such materials are continuously fed to and through a rotary extruder having an extruder housing defining a cylindrical interior and containing an extruder screw having helical screw flights having feeding, transition and metering sections, an improved method is provided which comprises employing, on at least the root surfaces of screw threads only in the section of said screw which provides the solids conveying function, a surface coating of a low coefficient of friction material. The surface coating of low coefficient of friction material as employed in the present invention is applied only to the root or base surfaces of the threads in the solids conveying section of the screw. Some overlapping from the base or root surfaces to the inclined surface of the screw is permissible and has been found to provide no significant change from a coating of the root surfaces alone. However, it It is also to be noted that the barrel lining material normally of carbon steel may also preferably be formed by nitriding of the steel barrel. The reference texts, such as Enoineerina Principles of Plasticatin Extrusion, Tadmor and Klein, Robert E. Krieger Publ. Co. Huntington, N.Y. 1978 , set forth lengthy and complex equations for approximating solid conveying rates through an extruder. From these equations one can derive other relationships which indicate the desirablility of decreasing the ratio of the coefficient of friction between the screw and the polymer to the coefficient of friction between the extruder barrel and the polymer. Thus, the flow rate is increased as the ratio of COF of the screw to the COF of the barrel is decreased. The COF of an Xalloy 101 coated carbon steel barrel is of the order of 0.30 to0.40. The COF of screws treated in accordance with the present invention is of the order of 0.05 to 0.22, whereas the COF of untreated screw, is of the order of0.22 toO.35. It can be seen that the flow rate of the extrusion process can be considerably affected by the selection of extruder barrel coating and low COF screw coating material in accordance with the invention. Any one of a number of processes may be employed for coating the screw roots of the feeding section. A polytetrafluoroethylene tape may be applied to the root surfaces of the feeding section, such tape being commercially available from polytetrafluoroethylene producers such as E.I. duPont deNemours and Co. of Wilmington, Delaware. Alternatively, the polytetrafluoroethylene material coating may be applied by a process, such as provided by General Magnaplate Company ofLinden, New Jersey, wherein polytetrafluoroethylene is embedded in a metal matrix to obtain a hard durable but low friction coefficient surface.Other processes for effecting the deposition of such coating will be apparent to those is significant that such low coefficient of friction material be applied to the root surfaces of the screw threads of only the section of the screw providing solids conveying, rather than all threads of the screw as was suggested by the prior art. Such prior art application provided a marked improvement in the specific extrusion rate, but only a partial reduction in melt temperature, as against the method of the present invention wherein selective surface coating is confined to the screw thread roots of the feeding section alone. An improved extrusion process is provided for single screw extruders to increase solids conveying rates through a controlled, selective reduction in feed zone screw coefficient of friction. Solids conveying efficiency is improved by a net increase in the ratio between the screw to polymer and barrel to polymer coefficients of friction. Achievement of this reduction in screw friction coefficient may be accomplished via several techniques, for example, the use of a low friction coating such as Teflon . Results of studies performed evaluating this technique are set forth herein. The preferred barrel surface coating is Xalloy 101 sold by Xalloy, Inc. of New Brunswick, New Jersey 08903 .This alloy has the following compositions Material s C Mn 2 Man. Si 1.5 Max B O 5 1.25 C Ool 14 Ni 2.5 5 Free of Co and W Fe Balance. skilled in the art and include the application of coatings of ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylenes, polyphenolene sulfide, fluorinated polyepoxides, phenolics, polyimids, polysulfones and polyarylketones, and dispersions of tetrafluorocarbons in other polymeric resins, and the like. As employed herein, the term polytetrafluoroethylene material is understood to mean any available tetrafluoroethylene polymer including homopolymers, copolymers and blends of tetrafluoroethylene, however made. The preferred low coefficient of friction coating material is such a polytetrafluoroethylene material. In the accompanying drawing, the single figure is a partial vertical elevational schematic view, partially in section, of an extruder capable of carrying out the method of the present invention. Referring specifically to the screw extruder of the trawling, an outer extruder barrel or housing 10 is provided having a multi section extruder screw 12 positioned therein and having, in turn, a shank position 14 at the rearward end thereof a feeding section 16 immediately downstream thereof a transition section 18 and a metering section 20 downstream thereof. The feeding, transition and metering sections of the screw have all threads, preferably of equal lead in transition and metering sections, and of increased lead in the feeding section. The linear polyolefin material to be extruded is fed in granular form not shown through the extruder housing 10 near the upstream end 24 of feeding section 16. The granular material is thus passed through the feeding section having a uniform root depth HF and is initially compacted and compressed in the feeding section which serves to develop heat within the material and effect the beginning of melting of the solid material by the time it is passed into the transition section 18. In the transition section, the screw root depth successively decreases from a value of HF to a value of the the screw root depth of the metering section. The coating of low coefficient of friction material is applied to the roots of the feeding section located at the depth of HF from the outer diameter of the screw. The transition section has a length of approximately five times the normal screw diameter. Material passing through the section continues to melt, initially interfaces between already molten polymer and solid compacted granular material, to a point where solid particles break up and small particles of solid polymer become dispersed in the main body of primarily molten polymer material. Tests were conducted employing a 2 1 2 inch diameter extruder of the type shown in the drawings. Such tests provided comparative data for extruders employing an uncoated standared screw, as against a screw embodying an invention having a polytetrafluoroethylene coating on all of the screw roots surfaces in the feeding section and the prior art having polytetrafluoroethylene coating on all the roots surfaces of the screws. The data set forth in the following table shows the improvement from both the specific extrusion rate and melt temperature standpoints of polytetrafluoroethylene coating of all of the root surfaces of the screw as well as the further unexpected improvement in melt temperature data by limiting the coating of the surfaces to those of the roots of the feeding section alone. TABLE EFFECT OF SCREW COATING ON SPECIFIC EXTRUSION RATE SR AND MELT TEMPERATURE MT RPM 40 80 120 0 1000 0 1000 0 1000 Screw Resin Psi Psi Psi Psi Psi PsiChrome Neat Resin1SR 1.00 1.00 1.01 1.00 0.99 1.00 Standard MT 186 197 191 204 192 208 Resin SR G.83 0,84 0.85 0.84 C.85 C.85 10 1. Fluff MT 192 201 195 208 198 212 200TFE in Feed Neat Resin SR 1.84 1.79 1.89 1.80 1.89 1.79 MT 179 181 169 182 177 192 Resin SR 1.57 1.49 1.56 1.52 1.58 1.50 10 Fluff MT 169 181 174 183 181 195TFE on Neat Resin SR 1.88 1.78 1.87 1.81 1.88 1.79Whole Screw MT 182 188 175 188 182 198 Resin SR 1056 1.50 1.57 1.52 1.59 1.50 10 Fluff MT 173 183 178 180 188 195Granular OEFG 7047 SR Lbs hr RPM MT CScrew Design 16.1 LID 2 1 2 NRM Extruder Screw Feed 4.5 0 0.450 deep Transition 4.0 D C.450 to .160 deep Metering 5.0 D 0.160 deep Mixing 2.4 D 5 channel ouside in type Lead 1.4 x D 3.5 inches It is to be noted that the linear polyolefin material employed in the tests set forth in the TABLE consisted of aUnipol Process film grade copolymer of ethylene and butene 1 having a density of 0.92 and melt index of 1.0. The 100 1. weight regrind material consisted of a similar copolymer having a density of 0.92 and a melt index of 2.0.