# Phosphinates and phosphonates and their use in the control of weeds.

## Abstract
Novel phenoxyphenoxyalkyl , phenoxyphenylthioalkyl or phenoxyphenylsulfonylalkyl substituted phosphinates and phosphonates, related compounds, synthesis thereof, intermediates therefore, and the use of said novel compounds for the control of weeds.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A compound of the formula A EMI51.1 wherein, R 5 hydrogen, amino, chloro, cyano or nitro n is O C or 1 n is 1, 2 or 3 RÚ is hydrogen, lower alkyl, lower haloalkyl, phenyl or benzyl, provided that R1 is not hydrogen when n is O R is selectee group 1 , 2 or 3 EMI51.2 3 hydrogen, metal cation, lower alkyl, lower haloalkyl, lower cyanoalkyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkalkyl, heterocycloalkyl, heterocycloalkalkyl, lower alkenyl, lower haloalkenyl, lower alkynyl, lower haloalkynyl, lower alkoxyalkyl, lower alkylthioalkyl, lower dialkylaminoalkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted aryl R3 is lower alkyl, lower haloalkyl, lower alkenyl, lower haloalkenyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl or R3 and R4 taken together form an alkylene group of 2 to 4 carbon atoms each of R4 and R6 is, independently, hydrogen, lower alkyl, lower haloalkyl, lower alkenyl, lower alkynyl, lower alkoxy or lower alkylthio R7 is selected from group 3 of R2 Q is CR or N W is oxygen, sulfur, sulfinyl, sulfonyl or NR5 in which P5is hydrogen or lower alkyl each of WI, w3 and W4 is, independently, oxygen or sulfur 2 is oxygen, sulfur, sulfinyl, sulfonyl, methylene, carbonyl or NR each of X, X and Xê is, independently, oxygen, sulfur or NR5 X is oxygen, sulfur, methylene or NR5 each of Y and Z is, independently, hydrogen, lower alkyl, lower haloalkyl, halogen, lower alkoxy, lower haloalkoxy, cyano or nitro and t is 1 or 2. 2. A compound according to Claim 1 of the formula EMI52.1 3. A compound according to Claim 2 wherein each ofX and X is oxygen. 4. A compound according t Claim 3 wherein R6 is hydrogen or methyl, n is one, Y is hydrogen or chloro and Z is chloro or trifluoromethyl. 5. A compound according to Cla m 4 wherein Q is CH. 6. A compound according to Claim 1 of the formulaEMI53.1 wherein X is, independently, hydrogen or chloro and Z is chloro or trifluoromethyl. 7. A compound according to Claim 6 wherein n is one,R6 is hydrogen or methl and each of X and X is oxygen. 8. A compound according to Claim 7 wherein R is nitro, Z is trifluoromethyl and Y is chloro. 9. A compound according to Claim 4 wherein Q is N. 10. A compound according to Claim 4 wherein R is nitro and Q is N. 11. A compound according to Claim 10 wherein Z is trifluoromethyl. 1 12. A compound according to Claim 1 of the formulaEMI54.1 wherein R1 is lower alkyl, lower haloalkyl, phenyl or benzyl. 13. A compound according to Claim 12 wherein W is oxygen, R is nitro, R1 is methyl or ethyl, R6 is hydrogen or methyl, n is one, Y is hydrogen or chloro, and Z is chloro or trifluoromethyl. 14. A compound according to Claim 13 wherein R2 is the groupEMI54.2 and X is oxygen. 15. A compound according to Claim 14 wherein W3 is oxygen, n is one, X3 is oxygen, n is one, R4 is hydrogen or methyl, R7 is lower alkyl, and Z is trifluoromethyl. 16. A compound according to Claim 15 wherein 0 is CR. 17. A compound according to Claim 14 wherein is CR, n is zero, w3 is oxygen, R4 is hydrogen or methyl, R7 is lower alkyl and Z is trifluoromethyl. compound according to Claim 13 wherein Rê is the group EMI55.1 and X is oxygen. 19. A compound according to Claim 18 wherein each ofW4 and is oxygen is one, R4 is hydrogen or methyl, R is alkyl and trifluoromethyl 20. A compound according to Claim 19 wherein Q is CH. 21. A compound according to Claim 19 wherein Q is X. 22. A compound according to Claim 13 wherein X is oxygen and Rê is hydrogen, metal cation or lower alkyl. 13. x compound according to Claim 22 wherein Z is trifluoromethyl, Rê is hydrogem or methyl, R6 is methyl, Y is chloro and Q is CH. 24. A method for the control of weeds which comprises treating a weed or its locus with a herbicidally effective amount of a compound of formula A as defined in Claim 25. A composition for the control of weeds which comprises a herbicidally effective amount of a compound of formula A as defined in Claim 1 and a suitable liquid or solid carrier. 26. A process for the manufacture of a compound cf formula A as defined in Claim 1 substantially as described herein. 27. A compound. of the formula XIII . l I EMI56.1 wherein, W is oxygen or sulfur n is 1, 2 or 3 n is 0 or 1 R is nitro, hydrogen, chloro or cyano RÚ is lower alkyl Rê is lower alkyl R6 is hydrogen or lower alkyl and R is bromo, chloro or hydroxy. 28. A compound according to Claim 27 wherein R11 is chloro, R is nitro, W is oxygen and R6 is hydrogen or methyl. 29. A compound according to Claim 28 wherein n is one n is zero and R1 is methyl or ethyl.

## Description
Novel Compositions and their use in the control of weeds. The present invention relates to novel phenoxyphenoxyalkyl , phenoxyphenylthioalkyl and phenoxyphenylsulfonylalkyl substituted phosphinates and phosphonates, synthesis thereof, intermediates therefor, and the use of said novel compounds for the control of weeds. More particularly, the compounds of the present invention are represented by the following formula A EMI1.1 wherein, R is hydrogen, amino, chloro, cyano or nitro n is 0 or 1 n is 1, 2 or 3 RÚ is hydrogen, lower alkyl, lower haloalkyl, phenyl or benzyl, provided that R1 is not hydrogen when n is 0 R2 is selected from group 1 , 2 or 3 EMI1.2 3 hydrogen, metal cation, lower alkyl, lower haloalkyl, lower cyanoalkyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkyl, hete o cycloalkyl, heterocycloalkyl, lower alkenyl, lower haloalkenyl, lower alkynyl, lower haloalkynyl, lower alkoxyalkyl, lower alkylthioalkyl, lower dialkylaminoalkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted aryl R3 is lower alkyl, lower haloalkyl, lower alkenyl, lower haloalkenyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkalkyl, substituted or unsub stituted aryl or R3 and R4 taken together from an alkylene group of 2 to 4 carbon atoms, each of R4 and R6 s independently, hydrogen. lower alkyl, lower haloalkyl, lowe a alkenyl, lower alkynyl alkoxy or lower alkylthio R7 is selected from group 3 of R Q is CH or N W is oxygen, sulfur, sulfinyl, sulfonyl or NR in whichR5 is hydrogen or lower alkyl each of WÚ,W and W4 is, independently, oxygen or sulfur W2 is oxygen, sulfur, sulfinyl, sulfonyl, methylene, carbonyl or NR5 each of X, X and X2 is, independently, oxygen, sulfur or NR5 X is oxygen, sulfur, methylene or NR5 each of Y and Z is, independently, hydrogen, lower alkyl, lower haloalkyl, halogen, lower alkoxy, lower haloalkoxy, cyano or nitro and t is 1 or 2. In the description and claims hereinafter, each of n, n , t, Q, R R7, W W4, X X3, Y and Z is as defined above, unless otherwise specified. The compounds of the present invention of formula A can be prepared in accordance with the general processes and examples of synthetic routes described hereinafter. For example, the following outlined syntheses can be us as generally applicable to preparation of the compounds of formula A . Herein, R10 represents the phenyl or pyridyl ring of formula A above.EMI3.1 In it the above synthesis, a nitrobenzene I is reacted with a phosphinic or phosphonic acid or thioacid II at room temperature or above in the presence of a base such as potassium carbonate and a solvent such as 2 butanone, acetone, dimethyl formamide or DMSO to give the phosphinate n 0 or phosphonate n l of formula B . In formula II , W is O, S or NR5. 0 Alternatively, the compounds of formula A may be prepared by the reaction of a compound of formula III with a haloalkyl phosphinate or phosphonate IV or with a mesyloxy phosphinate or phosphonate VII under similar conditions as described above. XX is chloro, bromo or iodo In formula III , is is NO2, Cl or H and W is O, S or NR5.EMI4.1 Compounds of the present invention where R2 is hydrogen when n zero and where R1 and R2 are hydrogen when n 1 , can be prepared, for example, by reaction of a phosphinate or or phosphonate B with a strong acid such as hydrochloric acid or with trimethylsilyl bromide in methylene chloride or trichloromethane. Phosphinate compounds of the present invention where R2 may be other than lower alkyl and where X may be other than oxygen can be prepared from a compound of formula B where n zero by reaction with thionyl chloride or oxalyl chloride at room temperature or above and in a solvent such as ether or methylene chloride and with or without dimethylformamide to give a phosphinic chloride V .Alternatively, compound B n zero may be reacted with phosgene at a temperature below room temperature in a solvent such as benzene or ether. The resulting phosphinic chloride V is then reacted with an alcohol, a thiol or an amine corresponding to formula VI at room temperature or below in a a solvent such as methylene chloride or dimethylformamide and with a base such as triethylamine to give a phosphinate of formula C . EMI6.1 To prepare phosphonate compounds of the present invention where Rê may be other than lower alkyl and where X may be other than oxygen, a compound of formula B where n one is reacted with thionyl chloride at room temperature or above and in a solvent such as benzene or ether to give a phosphonochloridate of formula Va , which is then reacted with HXR2 V as described above to give a phosphonate of formula D . EMI7.1 Likewise, to prepare phosphonate compounds of the present invention where each of R1 and R2 may be other than lower alkyl and where each of X and X may be other than oxygen, a compound of formula B n one is reacted neat with thionyl chloride at refluxing temperature to give a phosphonic chloride of formula Vb , which is then reacted with ILXR2 VI as above to give a phosphonate of formula E . EMI8.1 Compounds corresponding to formula A where W sulfonyl are prepared by reacting a compound of formula A where W is sulfur with 2 equivalents of m chloroperbenzoic acid in a solvent such as methylene chloride at room temperature. Compounds where W is sulfinyl are prepared in the same manner, except that 1 equivalent of m chloroperbenzoic acid is used. Phosphino or phosphonothioates of the present invention of formula A where W1 is sulfur can be prepared by reaction of a phosphinate or phosphonate A where WI is oxygen with, for example, phosphorus pentasulfide at an elevated temperatur The compounds of formula A where R cyano or chloro can be produced by the hydrogenation of a phosphinate A where R nitro to an amino compound A where R amino , which is diazotized following the procedure described inOrg. Synth. Coll. Vol. 1 514 1932 . The diazo salt is then reacted with cuprous cyanide or cuprous chloride to give the corresponding cyano compound A where R cyano or chloro compound A where R chloro . Compounds of formula A where R alkylcarbonylamino or alkylsulfonylamino can be prepared by the reaction on an amino compound A where R amino with a carbonyl halideEMI9.1 or a sulfonyl halide R9 SO2 XX R9 lower haloalkyl XX C1 or Br in the presence of, for example, triethylamine or potassium carbonate and a solvent such as acetone or methylene chloride, the reaction most usually taking place at room temperature. Compounds of formula A wherein R2 represents the values of group 2 can be prepared from an acid or salt thereof of formula I and a compound of formula II to form a compound of formula F .EMI9.2 EMI10.1 Compounds of formula 11 can be prepared by the methods described by Ulich and Adams, J.A.C.S. 43, 660 1921 . Compounds of formula A wherein R2 represents the values of group 1 can be prepared from an acid or salt thereof of formula I and a compound of formula II A .EMI10.2 Alternatively, the compounds of formula F can be prepared by reaction of an acid chloride of formula V with an alcohol, thiol or amine of formula ivy in which n is 2 or 3.EMI11.1 The following terms, wherever used in the description herein and in the appended claims, have the meaning defined below, unless otherwise specified hereinafter. The term lower alkyl refers to an alkyl group, straight or branched, having a chain length of one to eight carbon atoms. The term lower haloalkyl refers to a lower alkyl group substituted with one to three halogen atoms.The term lower cyanoalkyl refers to a lower alkyl group substituted with a cyano moiety. The term lower alkoxy refers to an alkoxy group, straight or branched, having a chain length of one to eight carbon atoms. The term lower haloalkoxy refers to a lower alkoxy group substituted with one to three halogen atoms. The term lower alkoxyalkyl refers to a lower alkyl group substituted with a lower alkoxy group. The term lower alkylthioalkyl refers to a lower alkyl group substituted with a lower alkylthio group, straight or branched, having a chain length of one to eight carbon atoms. The term lower alkenylw refers to an ethylenically unsaturated hydrocarbon group, straight or branched, having a chain length of two to eight carbon atoms and one or two ethylenic bonds. The term lower haloalkenyl refers to a lower alkenyl group substituted with one to three halogen atoms. The term lower al synylN refers to an alkynyl group, straight or branched, having a chain length of two to eight carbon atoms and one to two acetylenic bonds. The term cycloalkyl refers to a cycloalkyl group of three to eight cyclic carbon atoms. The term cycloalkalkylil refers to a cycloalkyl group wherein one hydrogen atom is replaced by a lower alkyl group, the total number of carbon atoms being from four to twelve. The term heterocycloalkyl refers to a cycloalkyl group of three to eight cyclic carbon atoms wherein one ring carbon atom is replaced by an oxygen atom or a nitrogen atom. The term heterocycloalkalkyl refers to a heterocycloalkyl group as defined herein wherein one hydrogen atom is replaced by a lower alkyl group of one to four carbon atoms. The term dialkylaminoalkyl refers to an aminoalkyl group, straight or branched, of one to eight carbon atoms wherein each of the two hydrogen atoms attached to the nitrogen atom is replaced by a lower alkyl.group, as defined herein. The term lower alkylsulfonyl refers to an alkylsulfonyl group, straight or branched, of one to eight carbon atoms. The term haloalkylsulfonyl refers to a lower alkylsulfonyl group substituted with one to three halogen atoms. The term aryl refers to a phenyl, benzyl or phenethyl group. Substituted aryl refers to an aryl group substituted at one, two or three of the ring carbon atoms with a group selected from lower alkyl, lower haloalkyl, lower alkoxy, lower haloalkoxy, halogen, nitro, or cyano. The term metal cation refers to a metal cation conventionally used in making herbicidally active salts such as sodium, potassium, calcium, ammonium, and the like. The compounds of formula A are useful for the control of weeds, using pre and or post emergent treatments foliar, soil and or floodwater applications . The compounds can be applied in the form of dusts, granules, solutions, emulsions, wettable powders, flowables and suspensions. Application of a compound of the present invention is made according to conventional procedure to the weeds or their locus using a herbicidally effective amount of the compound, usually from about one half or less to ten pounds per acre. Methods of preparing herbicidal formulations which can be used with a compound of the present invention are described in the literature along with suitable liquid and solid carriers such as in U.S. Patent 4,192,669 and 4,163,661 which are incorporated herein by reference. The compounds of the present invention have herbicidal activity on both broad leaf plants such as pigweed, annual morning glory, sicklepod, mustard, velvetleaf, sesbania sp., and curlydock and the grassy weeds such as green foxtail, barnyard grass, wild oat and shattercane and such weeds as yellow nutsedge. The optimum usage of a compound of the present invention is readily determinable by one of ordinary skill in the art using routine testing such as greenhouse testing and small plot testing. The term herbicide, as used herein, refers to an active ingredient which modifies the growth of plants because of phytotoxic or plant growth regulating properties so as to retard the growth of the plant or damage the plant sufficiently to kill it. The compounds of formula A are useful pesticides for the control of insects of the, for example, order Diptera such as flies and mosquitoes. The following examples are provided to illustrate the practice of the present invention. Temperature is given in degrees Centigrade. RT means room temperature. EXAMPLE 1 A mixture of 4 . 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 1,2 dinitrobenzene 500 mg, 1.38 mmol , diethyl hydroxymethylphosphonate 295 mg, 1.66 mmol and potassium carbonate 285 mg, 2.07 mmol in 2 butanone 5 ml is heated under reflux for 6 hours. After cooling, the reaction mixture is filtered, and the filtrate is concentrated to dryness. The crude product is purified by preparative thin layer chromatography prep.TLC silica gel, developed with 50 ethyl acetate hexane to give diethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenoxymethyl phosphonate. EXAMPLE 2 Following the procedure of Example 1, dimethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenoxymethylphosphonate is prepared from 4 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 1, 2 dinitro benzene and dimethyl hydroxymethylphosphonate. nmr CDC13 a 5.69 d, 2H, OCH2 P.and 6.12 ppm d, 6H, 10 Hz, OCH3 . In the same way, 4 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 1, 2 dinitrobenzene is reacted with each of dimethyl hydroxyethyl phosphonate and dimethyl hydroxy n propylphosphonate to yield, respectively, dimethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy phenoxyethylphosphonate A m is 2, R6 is H and dimethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenoxy n propylphosphonate A n is 3, R6 is H . EXAMPLE 3 Following the procedure of Example 1, dimethyl hydroxymethylphosphonate is reacted with each of the dinitrobenzenes in Column I to give the correspond ing phosphonate in Column II. I 4 2,6 dichloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 1,2dinitrobenzene 4 4 chloro 2 nitrophenoxy 1,2 dinitrobenzene 4 2 cyano 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 1,2 dinitrobenzene 4 2 nitro 4 tri fluoromethylphenoxy 1, 2 dinitro benzene 4 4 chlorophenoxy 1,2 dinitrobenzene 4 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 1,2 dinitrobenzene 4 2 bromo 4 chlorophenoxy 1,2 dinitrobenzene 4 2,4 dichlorophenoxy 1,2 dinitrobenzene II dimethyl 2 nitro 5 2,6 dichloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenoxymethylphosphonate dimethyl 2 nitro 5 4 chloro 2 nitrophenoxy phenoxymethylphosphonate dimethyl 2 nitro 5 2 cyano 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenoxymethylphosphonate dimethyl 2 nitro 5 2 nitro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenoxymethylphosphonate dimethyl 2 nitro 5 4 chlorophenoxy phenoxymethyl phosphonate dimethyl RTI ID 17.2 2 nitro 5 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phen oxymethylphosphonate dimethyl 2 nitro 5 2 bromo 4 chlorophenoxy phen osymethylphosphonate dimethyl 2 nitro 5 2,4 dichlorophenoxy phenoxy methylphosphonate EXAMPLE 4 To dimethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy phenoxymethylphosphonate 0.5 g in benzene 10 ml is added thionyl chloride 8 ml at RT. The mixture is allowed to return to RT and is stirred for 6 hours. The solvent and any excess thionyl chloride are then distilled off, yielding methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 tr i fluoromethylphenoxy phenoxymethylphosphono chloridate. To a solution of methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 tri fluoromethylphenoxy phenoxymethylphosphonochloridate 20 mmol in methylene chloride 30 ml is added 2 propenol 30 mmol and triethylamine 20 mmol . The mixture is stirred at RT for about 2 hours. The reaction mixture is then washed with water, and the organic layer is dried and evaporated to dryness to give methyl 2 propenyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 tri fluoromethylphenoxy phenoxymethylphosphonate. In the same way, methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4trifluoromethylphenoxy phenoxymethylphosphonic chloride is reacted with each of the compounds in column III to prepare the corresponding phosphonate, phosphonothioate or phosphonamide in Table IV of formula IV wherein Y is C1,Z is CF3, R is NO2, RÚ is CH3 and Wê is O. III 2 propynol 3,3 dichloro 2 propenol hydroxyacetonitrile benzyl alcohol ethyl hydroxyacetate 2 methoxyethanol 4 chlorophenol 2 tetrahydrofuryl methanol cyclohexylmethanol methyl thiol benzyl thiol ethyl sul fhydrylacetate isopropylamine methylsulfonamide ethyl aminoacetateEMI18.1 TABLE IVEMI19.1 tb SEP XR2 tb SEP 0 SEP SEP CH2 SEP SEP C SEP SEP CH tb SEP L tb SEP 0 SEP SEP CH2 SEP SEP CH SEP SEP C SEP C1 tb SEP 2 SEP Cl tb SEP 0 SEP SEP CH2 SEP CN tb SEP 0 SEP SEP CH2 SEP e tb SEP 0 tb SEP N tb SEP 0 SEP SEP CH2 SEP SEP C SEP SEP C2H5 tb SEP 0 SEP SEP CH2CH20CH3 tb 0C1 tb 0 SEP CH2 tb SEP 0 SEP SEP CH2 tb SEP S SEP SEP CH3 tb SEP S SEP SEP CH2 tb SEP 0 tb SEP II tb S CR2 SEP C SEP OC2R5 tb SEP NH SEP SEP CH CH3 2 tb SEP NH SEP SEP S02 SEP SEP CH3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP It tb SEP NH SEP SEP CH2 SEP SEP C SEP SEP OC2H5 tb EXAMPLE S A mixture of dimethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 tri fluoromethylphenoxy phenoxymethylphosphonate 1.5 g and thionyl chloride 10 ml is heated under reflux for 2 hours. Any excess thionyl chloride is then removed to yield 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy phenoxymethylphosphonic dichloride. To a solution of 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy phenoxymethylphosphonic dichloride 20 mmol in methylene chloride 30 ml is added allyl alcohol 50 mmol and triethylamine 20 mmol . The mixture is stirred at RT for about 1 hour. It is then washed with water and the organic layer is dried and evaporated to dryness to give di 2 propenyl 2 nitro5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenoxymethylphosphonate. In the same way, each of the compounds in ColumnV is reacted with 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy phenoxymethylphosphonic chloride to prepare the corresponding phosphonate in Column VI. V phenol hydroxyacetonitrile methylthiol isopropylamine VI diphenyl 2 nitro 5 2 choro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy phenoxyme thylphosphonate di cyanomethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifloro methylphenoxy phenoxymethylphosphonate dimethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy phenoxymethylpho sphonodithioate diisopropyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy phenoxymethylphosphonamide EXAMPLE 6 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 tri fluoromethylphenoxy phen oxymethylphosphonic dichloride 22 mmol is dissolved in methylene chloride 30 ml , and through this solution is passed dimethylamine at 0. for 2 minutes.The reaction mixture is then washed with water, dried and evaporated to give N,N,N ,N tetramethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 tri fluoromethylphenoxy phenoxymethylphos phonamide. In the same way, methyl N,N dimethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 tri fluoromethylphenoxy phenoxymethylphos phonamide is prepared from methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenoxymethylphosphonic chloride and dimethylamine. EXAMPLE 7 A mixture of 4 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 1,2 dinitrobenzene 569 mg, 1.57 mmol , potassium carbonate 303 mg, 2.36 mmol , diethyl sulfhydrylmethylphosphonate 405 mg, 2.20 mmol and 2 butanone 5 ml is heated under reflux for 5 hours.The reaction mixture is then filtered, and the filtrate is concentrated to dryness and purified by prep. TLC to give diethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylthiomethylphosphonate.NMR CDC13 6 5.87 m, 4H, oCH2CH3 , 6.90 d1 2H, 14 Hz, SCH2 P and 8.63 ppm t, 6H, OCH2CH3 . In like manner, 4 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphen oxy 1,2 dinitrobenzene and dimethyl sulfhydrylmethylphosphonate is reacted together to yield dimethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylthiomethylphosphonate. Following the same procedure, dimethyl sulfhydrylmethylphosphonate is reacted with each of 4 2,6dichloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 1,2 dinitrobenzene, 4 4 chloro 2 nitrophenoxy 1,2 dinitrobenzene, 4 2,4dichlorophenoxy 1,2 dinitrobenzene and 4 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 1,2 dinitrobnezene to yield, respectively, dimethyl 2 nitro 5 2,6 dichloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylthiomethylphosphonate, dimethyl 2 nitro 5 4 chloro 2 nitrophenoxy phenylthiomethylphosphonate. dimethyl 2 nitro 5 2,4 dichlorophenoxy phenylthiomethylphosphonate, and dimethyl 2 nitro 5 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy Phenylthiomethylphosphonate. EXAMPLE 8 Following the procedure of Example 1, 4 2 chloro4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 1,2 dinitrobenzene is reacted with each of the phosphinates listed in Column VII to yield the corresponding phosphinate in Table VIII of formula VIII wherein R is N02, WÚ is O, X is O, R6 is H, W2is O, Y is C1, Z is CF3 and Y is H. VII ethyl methylhydroxymethylphosphinate ethyl ethylhydroxymethylphosphinate methyl ethylhydroxymethylphosphinate methyl methylhydroxymethylphosphinate methyl methylhydroxyethylphosphinate methyl methylhydroxy n propylphosphinate methyl methylsulfhydrylmethylphosphinate ethyl ethylsulfhydrylmethylphosphinate EMI24.1 TABLE VIIIR1 R2 W CH3 C2H5 0 1C2H5 C2H5 O 1C2H5 CH3 O 1CH3 CH3 0 1CH3 CH3 0 2CH3 CH3 0 3CH3 CH3 S IC2H5 C2H5 S 1 EXAMPLE 9 Following the procedure of Example 1, methyl methylhydroxymethylphosphinate is reacted with each of the dinitrobenzenes listed in Column I Example 3 to give the correspond ing phosphinate in Table IX of formula VIII wherein R isNO2, R1 is CH3, R2 is CH3 R6 is H, n is 1, W WÚ Wê X is O. TABLE IX Y Z C1 CF3 C1 NO2 Cl H CN CF3 H NO2 CF3 H H Cl H H CF3 H Br C1 H Cl Cl H EXAMPLE 10 Following the procedure of Example 4, methyl P methyl 2 nitro 3 2 chlorc 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenoxymethyl phosphinate is reacted with thionyl chloride to give P methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenoxymethyl phosphinic chloride. P methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenoxymethylphosphinic chloride is then reacted with allyl alcohol and with each of the compounds listed in Column III Example 4 to give the corresponding phosphinate, phosphinothioate or phosphinamide in Table X of formula VIII whereinR is NO2, R1 is CH3, R6 is H, n is 1, Y is H, Y is C1, Z is CF3 and W W1 W2 is 0. TABLE XEMI26.1 tb SEP SEP XR2 tb OCH2 SEP SEP CH SEP SEP CH2 tb OCH2 SEP SEP C SEP SEP CH tb O SEP CH2 SEP SEP CH SEP SEP C SEP C12 tb O SEP CH2 SEP N tb OCH, tb SEP 0 tb SEP II tb OCH2 SEP SEP C SEP SEP OC2 SEP H5 tb O SEP CH2 SEP CH2 SEP O SEP CH3 tb Cl tb 0 SEP SEP CH2 SEP H tb TABLE X Continued EMI27.1 tb 0 SEP SEP CH2w0 tb sCH3 tb S SEP SEP CHZ tb SEP 0 tb S SEP SEP CH2 SEP C SEP SEP OC2Hs tb NH SEP SEP CH CH3 2 tb NH SEP SEP S02 SEP SEP CH3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP II tb NH SEP SEP CH2 SEP SEP C SEP SEP OC2H5 tb Further, p methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl pllenoxy phenoxymethylphosphinic chloride may be reacted with dimethylamine, following the procedure of Example 6, to yieldN,N dimethyl p methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenoxymethylphosphinamide. EXAMPLE 11 A mixture of dimethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy phenylthiomethylphosphonate 25 nol and mchloroperbenzoic acid 50 mmol in methylene chloride 20 ml is stirred at RT for 1 hour. Calcium chloride 4x weight is then added to the reaction mixture. The mixture is stirred for 10 minutes and is then filtered. Solvent is removed and the product is dried and evaporated to dryness to give dimethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylsulfonyl methylphosphonate. In the same way, methyl P methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenosy phenylsulfonylmethyl phosphinate is prepared by the reaction of methyl P methyl 2 ni tro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenylthiomethylphosphinate and m chloroperbenzoic acid. EXAMPLE 12 A solution of methyl P methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 tri fluoromethylphenoxy phenoxymethylphosphinate 5.5 mmol in methanol 10 ml is hydrogenated with 10 Pd C 200 mg at 1 atmosphere for 30 min. to give, after filtration and removal of the solvent, methyl P methyl 2 amino 5 2 chloro 4 tri fluoromethylphenoxy phenoxymethylphosphi nate. In the same way, dimethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenoxymethylphosphonate is hydrolyzed to yield dimethyl 2 amino 5 2 chloro 4 tri fluoromethylphenoxy phenoxymethylphosphonate. EXAMPLE 13 Following the procedure described in Org. Synth.Coll. Vol. 1, p. 514 1932 , each of methyl P methyl 2 amino 5 2 chloro 4 tri fluoromethylphenoxy phenoxymethyl phosphinate and dimethyl 2 amino 5 2 chloro 4 tri fluoromethylphenoxy phenoxymethylphospho is diazotized. Each of the resulting diazo salts is treated with cuprous cyanide 1.2 eq. in benzene water solution. When the reaction is completed, the organic phase is separated, washed with water, dried and purified by prep. TLC to yield, respectively, methyl p methyl 2 cyano 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenoxymethylphosphinate, and dimethyl 2 cyano 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenoxymethylphosphonate. In the same way, each of the above two diazo salts is treated with cuprous chloride to give, respectively, methyl p methyl 2 chloro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenoxymethylphosphinate, and dimethyl 2 chloro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenoxymethylphosphonate. EXAMPLE 14 To a mixture of methyl P methyl 2 amino 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenoxymethylphosphinate 2.5 mmol and potassium carbonate 0.4 ml in acetone 20 ml is added cliloroacetyl chloride 3.8 mmol . The mixture is stirred at RT for about 2 hours, after which it is washed with water, dried, evaporated and purified by prep. TLC to yield methyl P methyl 2chloroacetamido 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenotymethylphosphinate. In the same way, dimethyl 2 chloroacetamido 5 2 chloro 4 tri fluoroethylphenoxy phenoxymethylphosphonate is prepared from dimethyl 2 amino 5 2 chloro 4 tri fluoromeehylphenoxyphenoxymethylphosphonate and chloroacetyl chloride. EXAMPLE 15 Dimethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy phenoxymethylphosphonate 1 g in 20 ml of 6N hydrochloric acid is heated under reflux overnight.The solution is then poured into water and the mixture is extracted with methylene chloride. The combined solvent extracts are dried over magnesium sulfate and the solvent is then evaporated off to give 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 tri fluoromethylphenoxy phenoxymethylphos phonic acid. In the same way, each of methyl P methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenosy phenoxymethylphos phinate and ethyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 tri fluoromethylphenoxy phenoxymethylphosphi nate is treated with 6N HCl to yield, respectively, P methyl 2 nitro 5 t2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenoxy methylphosphinic acid and P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 tri fluoromethylphenoxy phenoxymethylphosphinic acid. EXAMPLE 16 A mixture of 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphen oxy 2 nitrophenol 2.5 mmol , chloromethyl methyl phosphinic acid 3.8 mmol , potassium carbonate 5.0 mmol and dimethylformamide 5 ml is heated to 120 for 2 hours. The reaction mixture is then acidified and extracted with ether. The combined ether extracts are washed with water, dried and evaporated to dryness to yield P methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 tri fluoro methylphenoxy phenoxymethylphosphinic acid. In the same way, P methyl 2 nitro 5 2 .chloro 4 trimethylphenoxy phenylthiomethylphosphinic acid is prepared from 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrophenyl thiol and chloromethyl methylphosphinic acid. EXAMPLE 17 A mixture of ethyl P ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4trifluoromethylphenoxy phenoxymethylphosphinate 4.7 mmol and phosphorus pentasulfide 1.2 mmol is heated to 150 160 under nitrogen for 3 4 hours. After cooling, the residue is purified by prep. TLC to give o ethyl p ethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenoxymethylphosphinothioate. In the same way, dimethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4trifluoromethylphenoxy phenoxymethylphosphinate and phosphorus pentasulfide are reacted together to yield o,o2 dimethyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy phenoxymethylphosphonothi oate. EXAMPLE 18 Post emergence herbicidal activity on the grasses green foxtail, watergrass, shattercane and wild oats and on the broadleafs annual morning glory, mustard, soybean and velvetleaf was tested for the compound of Example 1 by spraying seedlings with a solution of water acetone 1 1 , surfactant 1 and test compound at a rate equivalent to 10 lb acre. The average herbicidal activity, in percent control, is 998 in the grasses and 95 in the broadleafs. Pre emergence herbicidal activity of the compound of Example 1 was tested on the above grasses and broadleafs except that nightshade was substituted for soybean at a rate equivalent to 10 lb acre. The average activity, in percent control, is 81 in the grasses and 95 in the broadleafs. EXAMPLE 19 To a mixture of ethyl P methylphosphite t2Q g, 185.0 mmol and acetaldehyde 12 ml is added, dropwise, saturated sodium ethoxide until the inside temperature is raised to the maximum. The reactiori mixture is then filtered to give ethyl P methyl hydroxyethylphosphinate. To a solution of the above phosphinate 10 g, 65.0 mrol in methylene chloride 20 ml containing triethylamine 10.9 ml is added, dropwise at 00, methanesulfonyl chloride 7.6 ml, 104.0 mmol . After addition is complete, the mixture is stirred at RT for 4 hours. It is then diluted with methylene chloride, washed with brine, drIed and concentrated to dryness. The crude product is purified by prep. TLC silica gel, developing with 10 ethanol chloroform to give ethyl p methyl alpha mesyloxyethylphos phinate. A mixture of 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy 2 nitrophenol 1.1 g, 3.3 mmol , ethyl P methyl alpha mesyl oxyethylphosphinate 1.2 g, 5.3 mmol , potassium carbonate 0.68 g, 1.5 eq. and 2 butanone 20 ml is heated under reflux for 2 days and is then filtered. The filtrate is concentrated to dryness to give an oily residue. The residue is taken up in methylene chloride, washed, dried and evaporated to dryness. The resulting crude product is purified by prep.TLC silica gel, developing with 50 ethyl acetate hexane to give ethyl P methyl E2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenoxy ethylphos phinate VIII R is N02, R1 R6 is CR3, n is 1, R is C2H5, w w1 w2 x is 0, Y is H, Y is Cl, Z is CF3 . nmr CDC13 d 8.35 d, 3H, 14.5Hz, P CR3 , 8,62 t, 3H, OCH2CH3 , 8.60 q, 3H, OCH CH3 P , 5.87 quintet, 2H, OCR2CH3 , 5.42 quintet, 1H, OCH CH3 P . EXAMPLE 20To ethyl p methyl alpha 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy phenoxy ethylphosphinate 1.1 g in ethanol 10 ml is added potassium hydroxide 0.5 g in water 15 ml . The mixture is stirred at RT for 4 hours. The ethanol is removed, and the aqueous solution is acidified and extracted with ether. The combined extracts are dried and evaporated to dryness to give p methyl alpha 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenoxy ethylphosphinic acid. 14.5HZ, P CH3 , 5.d4 Cm, 1H, OCH CE3 P . EXAMPLE 21 The phosphinic acid of Example 20 is reacted with an excess of diazomethane in ether to give methyl P methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 tnfluoromethylphenoxy phenoxy 3 ethylphosphinate. nmr CDCl3 6 8.57, 8.43 qq, 3H, OCH CH3 P , 8.35 d, 3H, 14.5Hz, P CH3 , 6.27, 6.17 dd, 3H, POCH3 , 5.30 m,1H,OCH CH3 P . EXAMPLE 22 A mixture of the phosphinic acid of Example 20 0.50 g, 1.1 mmol , methyl bromoacetate 0.2 ml, 2.2 mmol , potassium carbonate 0.24 g, 1.6 mmol and 2 butanone 20 ml is heated under reflux overnight. It is then filtered and the filtrate is concentrated to dryness. The crude product is purified by prep. TLC 60 ethyl acetate hexane to give methoxycarbonylmethyl P methyl E2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromeWhylphenoxy phenoxyAethylphosphinate. nmr CDCl3 6 8.42 q, 3H, OCH CH3 P , 8.25 d, 3H, 14.5Hz, P CR3 , 6.30, 6.25 ss, 3H, OCH3 , 5.47, 5.40 dd, 2H, 12.5Hz, OCH2C O . In the same way, p methyl alpha 2 nitro 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenoxy ethylphosphinic acid and ethyl bromoacetate are reacted together to give ethoxycarbonylmethyl p methyl alpha 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy phenoxy ethylphosphinate. EXAMPLE 23 V I Following the procedure of Example 19, ethyl P methyl mesyloxyefflhylphosphinate is reacted with each of 5 2 fluoro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrophenol, 5 2 methyl 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrophenol, 5 4 chloro2 nitrophenoxy 2 nitrophenol and 5 2,6 dichloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrophenol to yield, respectively, ethyl p methyl alpha 2 nitro 5 2 fluoro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy phenoxylethylphosphinate, ethyl p methyl alpha 2 nitro 5 2 methyl 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy phenoxylethylphosphinate, ethyl p methyl alpha 2 nitro 5 4 chloro 2 nitrophenoxy phenoxy ethylphosphinate, and ethyl p methyl alpha 2 nitro 5 2,6 dichloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy phenoxy ethylphosphinate. EXAMPLE 24 A mixture of 4 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 1,2 dinitrobenzene 600 mg , dimethyl hydroxyethylphosphonate 382 mg , potassium carbonate 343 mg and 2 butanone 8 ml is heated under reflux for 24 hours. The reaction mixture is filtered, and the filtrate is concentrated and purified by prep. TLC to give dimethyl alpha 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenoxy ethylphosphinate. nmr CDC13 6 8.40 dd , 3H, OCH CH3 P , 6.17 d, 6H, 10.5Hz, P OCH3 2 , 5.30 m, 1H, OCH CH3 P . In the same way, diethyl alpha hydroxyethylphosphonate and 4 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 1,2 dinitro benzene are reacted together to yield diethyl alpha 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenoxy ethylphos phonate VIII R is NO2, R1 is OC2H5, R is C2R5, R6is CR3, n is 1, W WÚ Wê X is O, Y is H, Y is C1, Z is CF3 . EXAMPLE 25 A mixture of ethyl P methyl mesyloxymethylphosphinate 540 mg, 2.5 mind , 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrophenol 589 mg, 1.8 mmol , potassium carbonate 366 mg, 1.5 eq. and 2 butanone 10 ml is heated under reflux for 20 hours. The reaction mixture is filtered, and the filtrate is concentrated. The oily crude product is taken up in methylene chloride, washed, dried and concentrated to dryness to give ethyl P methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4trifluoromethylphenoxy phenoxymethylphosphinate. nmr CDCl3 8.67 t, 3H, OCH2CR3 , 8.30 d, 3H, 14.5Hz, P CH3 , 5.87 g, 2H, OCH2CH3 , 5.74 d, 2H, 8Hz, OCH2P , 3.50 dd, lH, 8Hz , 3.27 d, 1H, 2Hz , 2.80 d, 1H, 8Hz , 2.73 dd, 1H, 8Hz , 2.24 d, 1H, 2Hz , 2.07 d, 1H, 8Hz two aromatic H . Ethyl P methyl mesyloxymethylphosphinate is prepared from ethyl P methyl hydroxymethylphosphinate and methanesulfonyl chloride, following the procedure of Example 19. EXAMPLE 26 To ethyl p methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy phenoxymethylphosphina.e 1.30 g in ethanol 10 ml is added 5 aq. sodium hydroxide 20 ml and the solution is stirred at RT for 20 minutes. The ethanol is evaporated off the aqueous solution is extracted with ether and the ether layer is discarded. The basic aqueous solution is acidified with dilute HC1 and extracted with methylene chloride. The combined organic extracts are washed, dried and evaporated to dryness to give P methyl2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenoxymethylphosphinic acid IX R is NO2, R1 is CH3, Rê R is H,W X is O, Y is C1, Z is CF3 . nmr CDC13 6 8.30 d, 3H, 14.5Hz, P CH3 , 5.74 d, 2H, 8Hz, OCH2P , C3.50 dd, 1H, 8Hz , 3.27 d, 1H, 2Hz , 2.80 d, IR, 8Hz , 2.37 dd, 1H, 8Hz , 2.24 d, 1H, 2Hz , 2.07 d, 1H, 8Hz two aromatic H . EXAMPLE 27 Following the procedure of Example 22, the phosphinic acid of Example 26 400 mg, 0.94 mmol and methyl bromoacetate 287 mg, 8.8 mmol are reacted together with potassium carbonate 194 mg, 1.5 eq. and 2 butanone 10 ml , to yield methoxycarbonylmethyl P methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenoxymethylphosphinate. nmr CDCl3 d 8.20 Cd, 3H, 14.5Hz, P CH3 , 6.42 s,3H,OCH3 , 5.60 d,8Hz,OCH2P , 5.37 d,2H, 12.5Hz, OCH2CCO . EXAMPLE 28 To a solution of the phosphinic acid of Example 26 406 mg in methylene chloride 5 ml is added, dropwise, diazomethane until a yellow solution is obtained. Excess diazomethane is removed, and the solution is evaporated to dryness to yield methyl P methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 tzrifluoromethylphenoxy phenoxy methylphosphinate. nmr CDCl3 d 8.32 d, 3E, 14.5Hz, P CR3 6.24 d, 3H, 10.5Hz, P OCH3 , 5.74 d, 2H, 8Hz, OCR2P . EXAMPLE 29 Following the procedure of Example 18, each of the final compounds of Examples 25, 26, 27 and 28 compounds 2, 3, 4 and 5, respectively , is tested for post emergence herbicidal activity. The results are presented in Table A below. Again following the procedure of Example 18, the compounds of Examples 25, 27 and 28 compounds 2, 4, and 5 are tested for pre emergence herbicidal activity.The results are given in Table A. TABLE A Average Herbicidal Activity, in Control Post PreCompound GRa BLb GR BL 2 96 100 95 100 3 83 100 z 4 100 100 100 100 5 81 100 100 100 a GR grasses b BL broadleafs EXAMPLE 30 Following the procedure of Example 18, the compound dimethyl alpha 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenoxy ethylphosphonate is tested for pre emergence and for post emergence herbicidal activity. The average preemergence activity in grasses is 95 and n broadleafs, 100 . The post emergence activity in both grasses and broadleafs is 100 . EXAMPLE 31 Following the procedure of Example 22, the compounds of the following formula VIII listed under Table B are prepared.EMI39.1 In the following Table B, it is understood that Z is trifluoromethyl, Y is chloro, P6 is methyl, W is oxygen and X is oxygen in formula VIII . TABLE BCompound R R1 R8 m s 6 NO2 CH2CH3 0 CH2CH2 S CH2CH3 599 TABLE B Continued EMI40.1 tb Compound SEP R SEP R1 SEP P8 SEP m s tb 7 SEP NO2 SEP CH2cR3 SEP O CH3 SEP 525 tb SEP 8 SEP NO2 SEP CR3 SEP O CR2CR2 O CH3 SEP CH3 tb SEP 9 SEP CI SEP CH2CH3 SEP O CH3 SEP 515 tb 10 SEP NO2 SEP CR3 SEP O CH,CCH SEP 535 tb 11 SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH3 SEP 0 CH2C CH SEP 549 tb SEP CR3 tb 12 SEP No2 SEP O CH,CH,C SEP O CH3 SEP 597 tb SEP L SEP L tb SEP CH3 tb 13 SEP NO2 SEP CH2CH3 SEP SEP O SEP C SEP 581 tb 14 SEP NO2 SEP CR2CH3 SEP CR3 SEP 509 tb Compound 14 is prepared using the procedure of Example 22 by reaction of the phosphinic acid precursor with chloroacetone in acetone under reflux. EXAMPLE 32 Using the procedures described herein, the compounds of formula IX listed under Table C are prepared wherein Z is trifluoromethyl, Y is chloro and W is oxygen.EMI41.1 TABLE CEMI42.1 tb SEP Compound SEP R SEP R6 SEP R1 SEP XR2 tb SEP R tb SEP 15 SEP NO2 SEP CH3 SEP C2H5 SEP 0C2H5 SEP 481 tb SEP 16 SEP NO2 SEP CH3 SEP C2R5 SEP SOCH3 SEP 467 tb 17 SEP 17 SEP C1 SEP CH3 SEP C2R5 SEP C2HS SEP 471 tb 18 SEP NO, SEP H SEP CR3 SEP SEP OCR SEP CR3 2 SEP 467 tb SEP 19 SEP NO2 SEP H SEP CH3 SEP OCH2CH2 S SEP C2S5 SEP 513 tb 20 SEP 20 SEP No2 SEP CR3 SEP C2R5 SEP NH SEP CH3 SEP 452 tb SEP 21 SEP NC2 SEP H SEP CH3 SEP OCH2CH CH3 2 SEP 481 tb SEP 22 SEP NO2 SEP H SEP E SEP CH3 SEP SEP H SEP OCR2C CH SEP 463 tb SEP 23 SEP NO2 SEP CH3 SEP C2R5 SEP OCH2CH2 S SEP C2E5 SEP 541 tb SEP 24 SEP NO2 SEP H SEP CH3 SEP OCH2CR2OCH3 SEP 483 tb 25 SEP N SEP H SEP CH3 SEP O SEP SEP 495 tb 26 SEP NO2 SEP SEP CH3 SEP C2H5 SEP SOCH2 SEP 4 SEP 551 tb SEP 0 tb SEP II tb SEP 27 SEP NO2 SEP H SEP Ch SEP OCH2C CH3 SEP 481 tb Compounds 18 to 27 can be prepared by conversion of the phosphinic acid to the phosphinyl chloride using RTI ID 43.1 SOC12 followed by reaction with the appropriate alcohol or amine in a solvent such as CH2C12. Compounds 15 and 17 can be prepared using the procedure of Example 19. Compound 16 can be prepared by the procedure of Example 21. EXAMPLE 33 To a mixture of ethyl P ethylphosphite 20.4 g and acetaldehyde 8.7 ml is slowly added saturated sodium ethoxide until the internal temperature is raised to the maximum about 1000 . The reaction is then filtered through silica gel column to yield ethyl P ethyl a hydroxyethylphosphinate in good yield. Using the procedure of Example 19, 9.2 g of the above phosphinate is reacted with mesyl chloride to yield ethylP ethyl a mesyloxyethylphosphinate 9.1 g which is reacted with 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrophenol to yield ethyl P ethyl a 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy phenoxy ethylphosphinate Compound 15 . EXAMPLE 34 A mixture of p methyl alpha 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methylphenoxy phenoxy ethylphosphinic acid 650 mg, 1.43 mm , alpha bromoethyl acetate 430 mg , triethylamine 0.4 ml and DMF 3.5 ml is stirred at RT for 24 hours. The reaction product is taken up in CH2Cl2, washed, dried and concentrated under vacuum. The concentrate is purified by prep thin layer chromatography to yield 320 mg of the acetate IX Y is C1, Z is,CF3, R is NO2, W X is O, R1 is C2H5, R6 is CH3, and R2is CH CH3 O C O CH3 Compound 28 . Using the above procedure, P methyl 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenoxymethylphosphinic acid 0.5 g is reacted with each of chloromethyl pivalate 265 mg and a bromoethyl acetate 354 mg to give the respective pivalate IX R is NO2, RÚ is CH3, R6is H, W X is O, Y is C1, Z is CF3, R2is CH2OC O C CH3 3 in yield of 355 mg Compound 29 and the1 acetate IX R is NO2, RÚ is CH3, R6 is H, W X is O, Y is C1, Z is CF3, Rê is CH CH3 OC O CH3 in yield of 380 mg Compound 30 . Using the above procedure, P methyl a 2 nitro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenoxylethylphosphinic acid 600 mg is reacted with each of chloromethyl acetate 300 mg and chloromethyl pivalate 0.3 ml, 2.18 mm to give the respect tive acetate IX R is NO2, RÚ R6 is CH3, W X is O, Y is Cl,Z is CF3 and Rê is CH2OC O CH3 in yield of 430 mg Compound 31 and the pivalate IX R is NO2, RÚ R6 is CH3, W X is O, Y is Cl,Z is CF3 and R is CH2OC O C CH3 3 in yield of 570 mg Compound 32 . Following the test procedure of Example 18, each of the compounds listed in Table D is tested for pre and postemergence herbicidal activity with the result indicated in average percent control. TABLE D Pre PostCompound No. GR BL GR BL 6 100 100 100 100 7 100 100 100 100 8 100 100 100 100 10 100 106 100 100 11 100 100 100 100 12 100 100 100 100 13 100 100 100 100 15 92 95 100 100 18 87 99 97 100 19 100 100 80 100 22 98 98 98 100 24 99 98 99 99 25 99 99 100 100 29 98 100 98 100 30 100 96 98 100 The herbicidal activity of the compounds listed in Table1E is indicated in average percent control for pre emergence application at the rate of 3.3 lbsZacre. TABLE ECompound No. GR BL 4 100 100 7 100 100 16 90 94 28 100 92 Post emergence application of the compounds listed inTable F on broadleafs at the rate of 0.33 lbs acres resulted in the average percent control indicated. TABLE F Compound No. BL 4 100 7 100 15 , 87 28 100 29 100 30 98 Emulsifiable concentrate of compound 7 or other compoun of formula A of the present invention is prepared as follows ingredients in percent by weight . Compound No. 7 27.8 Xylene 62.2 Toximol S 5.0 Atlox 8916 TF 5.0 Toximol is an emulsifier of Stepan Chemical Company.Atlox 8916 TF is an emulsifier of ICI Americas, Inc. Flowable formulation is prepared as follows usingCompound 28 or other compound of formula A 1 Compound 28 3.00 Toximol 360A 3.00 Sun 7N oil 30.00 2 Water 60.85 Gelvatol 20 30 3.00 Kelzan 0.15 Premix 1 is dispersed in high speed blender and then premix 2 is added and stirring continued for about 5 minutes. The crops rice, wheat and barley show excellent toleranc to pre emergent application of the compounds of the present invention such as compound no. 7. The compounds of the present invention are useful for the control of weeds in rice when the compound is introduced into the floodwater. EXAMPLE 35 Using the procedure of Example 19, 3 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenol is reacted with ethyl P methyl amesyloxyethylphosphinate to yield ethyl P methyl a t3 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy ethylphosphinate IX R is H, R1 R6 is CH3, W X is 0, Rê is C2H5, Y is C1, Z is CF3 . The compounds of formula A of the present invention can be prepared according to the following outlined method in addition to the preparations described hereinabove.EMI48.1 In the above formulas XI and XII , when R12 is nitro, bromo or chloro and R13 is hydroxy, thiol or NR5, then R is nitro and when R12 is hydroxy or thiol and R13 is bromo, chloro, iodo mesyloxy or tosyloxy, then R is nitro, chloro, hydrogen or cyano. WS is bromo, chloro, iodo, hydroxy or thiol. In the practice of the above outlined process, a benzenes compound of formula XI is reacted with a phosphinate or phosphonate of formula XII using conditions such as described in Examples 1, 19 and 24 to yield a compound of formula XIII which is then reacted with a halide, alcohol or thiol of formula XIV , according to the value of R11, to prepare a compound of formula A wherein W2is oxygen or sulfur. EXAMPLE 36 A A mixture of 5 chloro 2 nitrophenol 3.3 mmol , ethyl P methyl a mesyloxyethylphosphinate 5.2 mmol , potassium carbonate 1.5 eq. and 2 butanone t30 ml is heated under reflux for about 30 hours. The reaction is worked up as in Example 19 to yield ethyl P methyl alpha 2 nitro 5 chlorophenoxy ethyl phosphinate XIII R is NO2, R1 R6is CH3, W W X is O, n is 1, R11, is C1, n is zero . B The phosphinate of part A is reacted with 2 chloro4 trifluoromethylphenol in the presence of base using the procedure of U.S. Patent 3,784,635 or 4,277,624 to give ethyl P methyl alpha 2 nitro 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenoxy ethylphosphinate. EXAMPLE 37 A A mixture of 3,4 dinitrophenol 3 mmol , diethyl a hydroxyethylphosphonate 5 mmol , potassium carbonate 1.8 e and 2 butanone 15 ml is heated under reflux for about 24 hours. The reaction is worked up as in Example 24 to give diethyl a 2 nitro 5 hydroxyphenoxy ethyl phosphonate XIII R is NO2,RÚ R2 is C2H5, R6 is CH3, n n is 1, W W1 X X is O, Rll isOH . B The phosphonate of part A is reacted with 2chloro 5 trifluoromethylpyridine in the presence of base using the procedure of U.S. Patent 4,326,880 to yield diethyl alpha 2 nitro 50 5 trifluoromethyl 2 pyridiloxy phenoxy ethylphosphonate. EXAMPLE 38 The compound of Example 35 is nitrated using HN03 H2S04 following the process of U.S. Patent 4,326,880 to yield the corresponding 2 nitro derivative IX R is NO2, R1 R6is CH3,W X is O, R is C2H5, Y is C1, Z is CF3 . EXAMPLE 39 The process of Example 36 is repeated using each of 3,4dinitrophenol, 5 chloro 1,2 dinitrobenzene, 2,5 dichloronitrobenzene, 2 nitro 5 thiorchlorobenzene and 3 chloro 4 nitrophenol in place of 5 chloro 2 nitrophenol to yield the followin phosphinates.EMI50.1 R11 WOH O Cl OCl OSH O OH O