# TURBOCHARGER TURBINE HOUSING

## Claims
1. Turbinengehäuse für einen Turbolader mit einem Einlaß 40 für Abgase, und einem Ableitkanal 57 zum Überfüh ren von Gasen aus der Turbine in einen Auslaß 60 , einem Bypass 22 , der vom Einlaß 40 zum Ableitkanal 57 führt und die Turbine umgeht, und einem Abgasregelklap penventil 20 zum wahlweisen Öffnen und Schließen des Bypasses 22 , wobei der Auslaß 60 in radialer Richtung von der Achse der Turbine 16 verschoben axial ver setzt ist, wobei der Bypass 22 in einem Teil des Turbinengehäuses ausgebildet ist, und wobei das Abgas regelklappenventil 20 ein Tellerventilbauteil 68 aufweist, das lose auf einem Schwenkarm 74 befestigt ist, wobei der Arm 74 und das Tellerventilbauteil 68 um eine Achse 76 schwenkbar sind, die etwa rechtwinklig zur Längserstreckung des Bypasses verläuft und aus der Ebene des Tellers verschoben ist, und auf einer Seite des Bypasses liegt, dadurch gekennzeichnet, daß das Tellerventil 20 in voll geöffneter Position effektiv eine Fortsetzung der Seitenwand des Bypasses in nächster Nähe der Turbine bildet und Gasen den Durchfluß durch den Bypass 22 und in den Ableitkanal 57 mit geringer Richtungsänderung und ohne wesentliche Reduzierung der Durchflußgeschwin digkeit aufgrund der Behinderung durch das Tellerventil bauteil 68 ermöglicht.

## Description
This invention relates to improvements in turbochargers used to provide pressurised air to an internal combustion engine. Turbochargers in general are well known in the art for supplying relatively high pressure charge air, to the intake manifold of an internal combustion engine such as a reciprocating pis ton engine of the type commonly used to power automobiles, trucks, buses and the like. Typically, the turbocharger comprises a turbine housing connected for receiving exhaust gases expelled from the engine and configured for guiding those exhaust gases into driving communication with a rotatable turbine wheel. The turbine wheel is carried by a rotatable shaft commonly connected to a compressor impeller within a compressor housing. The turbine wheel thus rotatably drives the impeller which in turn draws ambient air into the compressor housing for compression and discharge in the form of charge air for supply to the intake manifold of the engine. In order to control operation of the turbocharger so that the charge air is supplied to the engine only on demand and at a pressure level not exceeding predetermined design limits, it is known to provide a bypass passage for bypass flow of a portion of the exhaust gases around the turbine wheel in combination with a so called wastegate valve for opening and clos ing the bypass passage in response to selected engine parameters. For an example of a wastegate valve control scheme, see U.S. Patent No. 3,035,408. BMW s British Patent No. 2059515 discloses a bypass passage for a turbo compressor for an engine and in the preferred form in Figure 1 the bypass gas flows anularly around the exhaust gas passage from the turbine. However, in the alternative arrangement of Figure 2 a bypass passage leads into the turbine exhaust passage and is controlled by a flap valve which is pivot ally mounted in the angle where the walls of the exhaust passage and the bypass join and the flap valve is arranged when open to provide a reduced area for bypass gas flow for increasing the velocity of the bypass gas. A further possibility is shown in Figure 3 where a poppet valve is used having a disc for controlling the bypass passage and there the bypass passage is turned through an angle of at least 90 before entering the exhaust gas passage from the turbine so as to produce a substantial change in the direction of bypass gas flow. According to the present invention the turbocharger has a wastegate valve for the bypass which has a pivotally mounted disc valve member which when fully open allows gases to flow along the bypass and into a lead out passage for turbine exhaust gases to flow to an outlet with little change in direction and without substantial reduction in flow velocity caused by obstruction by the valve member. When the valve is open the bypass gases draw a flow of exhaust gases from the turbine to reduce back pressure on the engine. In the BMW disclosure one suggestion is to use a flap valve for controlling the bypass but that type of valve does not enable the bypass to be completely sealed due to leakage particularly at the flap pivot, and in addition the flap can warp particularly opposite the pivot so that the bypass is not easily fully closed. A pivotally mounted disc valve member in accordance with the present invention does enable the bypass to be substantially completely sealed off while yet it is possible to mount the disc so that when the valve is fully open there is little change in direc tion of bypass gas flow and substantially no reduction in bypass gas velocity due to obstruc tion by the valve member. One embodiment of the BMW proposal does have a poppet valve with a disc for controlling the bypass passage but the design involves a very substantial change in direction of the bypass gas flow from the bypass passage through the valve opening and from the valve opening into the lead out passage. The second change of direction is caused by obstruction due to the open disc shaped valve member with consequent losses. This wastegate valve comprises a valve head carried by a crank arm mounted on a rotatable actuator shaft for pivoting the crank arm between a first position with the valve head closing the bypass and a second position with the valve head opening the bypass. In GB A 2054055 a turbo compressor with a bypass is disclosed, whereby the outlet is radially displaced from the axis of the turbine figures 5 and 6 . The wastegate valve is placed in the by pass and will, in the open position, obstruct part of the flow through this bypass. According to the invention the disc valve member, when fully open, effectively forms a continuation of the side wall of the bypass near est to the turbine and allows gases to flow along the by pass and into the lead out passage with little change in direction, and without sub stantial flow velocity caused by obstruction by the valve member the valve member is loosely mounted on a pivoted arm. Thus, the invention provides for improved cooling of metal portions exposed to hot engine exhaust gases, and enables a wastegate valve and a bypass to cooperate to provide an effi cient exhaust ejector to reduce backpressure on the engine. The invention may be carried into practice in various ways, and one embodiment will now be described by way of example with reference to the accompanying drawings in which A turbocharged engine system 10 is illustrated generally in FIGURE 1 and includes an exhaust gas driven turbocharger 12 in combination with a combustion engine 14. The turbocharger 12 includes a turbine wheel 16 which is rotatably driven by exhaust gases expelled from the engine to drive a compressor impeller 18 which in turn supplies compressed air, commonly referred to as charge air, to the engine. Control over turbocharger operation is provided by a wastegate valve 20 for selectively permitting a portion of the exhaust gases to bypass the turbine 16 through a bypass passage 22. The wastegate valve 20 and the bypass passage 22 co operate to define an efficient fluid ejector for reducing backpressure acting upon the engine. Moreover, the bypass passage 22 is advantageously incorporated into a unitarily cast turbine housing 23 which includes an air vent not shown in FIGURE 1 for passage of cooling ambient air into contact with specific metal sur faces of the turbine housing to prevent degrada tion of portions of the turbine housing from exposure to hot exhaust gases. More particularly, the engine 14 comprises an internal combustion engine such as, for purposes of illustration, a reciprocating piston engine of the type used commonly with passenger automobiles or the like. The engine 14 has an exhaust manifold 24 through which products of combustion in the form of exhaust gases are expelled for passage through an exhaust conduit 26 to the turbine housing 23. The exhaust gases flow into the turbine housing 23 for passage into driving com munication with the turbine wheel 16 to rotate the turbine wheel at a relatively high speed, for example of at least 100,000 rpm. After expansion by the rotating turbine wheel 16, the exhaust gases are discharged to atmos phere through an outlet conduit 28 which may include conventional pollution and or noise abatement devices not shown . The turbine wheel 16 is carried at one end of a rotatable shaft 30 which is in turn connected at its opposite end to the compressor impeller 18. Accordingly, driving rotation of the turbine wheel 16 imparts via the shaft 30 a corresponding rotation to the compressor impeller. As illustrated in FIGURE 1, the compressor impeller 18 is posi tioned within a compressor housing 32 to draw in ambient air through an inducer passage 33 and to compress the ambient air for supply as charge air through a discharge conduit 34 to an intake manifold 36 of the engine 14. Importantly, specific construction details of the shaft 30, the com pressor impeller 18 and the compressor housing 32 are generally conventional in the art and thus are not shown or described in detail herein. However, for a more detailed description and discussion of exemplary construction details for a turbocharger, see commonly assigned U.S. Patent Nos. 4,120,156 and 4,157,834, which are incorporated by reference herein. The rotational speed of the turbine wheel 16, and hence the pressure of charge air supplied by the compressor impeller 18, is controlled by regulating the flow of exhaust gases through the bypass passage 22 away from driving communi cation with the turbine wheel. That is, during some conditions of engine operation, the exhaust gases expelled from the engine 14 are capable of driving the turbine wheel 16 at a speed sufficient to provide charge air to the engine at a pressure exceeding engine requirements or safe mechani cal design limits. Control over turbocharger operation is obtained by the wastegate valve 20 which is movable to a position opening the bypass passage 22 to flow of exhaust gases whereby the mass flow of gases in driving communication with the turbine wheel 16 is reduced in proportion to the degree of opening of the valve. This movement of the wastegate valve is commonly controlled in response to selected system oper ating parameters such as, for example, the pressure of the charge air in the discharge conduit 34. For a detailed discussion of exemplary wastegate control schemes and apparatus there for, see commonly assigned U.S. Patent Nos. 4,251,050, and 4,256,019, which are incorporated by reference herein. In this arrangement the turbine housing 23 including the bypass passage 22 co operates with the wastegate valve 20 to provide an improved turbine housing assembly 38. More specifically, the bypass passage 22 and the wastegate valve 20 co operate to provide an efficient fluid ejector for causing exhaust gases to be drawn through the turbine housing when the wastegate valve is open. This drawing of exhaust gases through the turbine housing advantageously results in a reduction of fluid pressure at the engine exhaust manifold 24 to reduce backpressure acting upon the engine by virtue of the presence of the turbocharger. Reduction in backpressure increases the overall engine pressure differential to permit the engine 14 to be operated with improved power output and economy. The turbine housing assembly 38 is shown in detail in FIGURES 2 4 which illustrate a pre ferred construction for the turbine housing 23 in combination with the wastegate valve 20. As illustrated, the turbine housing 23 is formed as a one piece, unitary casting from a suitable metal material or the like generally capable of with standing temperatures of engines exhaust gases and thermal cycling encountered by engine start up and shutdown. This turbine housing 23 is shaped to include a plurality of internal passages for receiving the turbine wheel 16 and for guiding exhaust gases from the exhaust conduit 26 into driving communication with the turbine wheel prior to discharge through the outlet conduit 28. More particularly, the turbine housing 23 includes an inlet neck 40 FIGURE 3 with an external flange 42 adapted for connection as by bolts 44 to a mating flange 46 at the downstream end of the exhaust conduit 26. This inlet neck 40 defines an inlet passage 48 into which the engine exhaust gases flow toward driving communication with the turbine wheel 16. The exhaust gases within the turbine housing inlet passage 48 flow freely into a generally annular volute passage 50 of gradually decreas ing cross section. This volute passage 50 is open radially inwardly over a substantial portion of its length to define a turbine inlet nozzle 52, as viewed in FIGURE 2, for passage of the exhaust gases into driving communication with the tur bine wheel 16. The exhaust gases thus impact with the turbine wheel 16 to rotatably drive the turbine wheel and the rotatable shaft 30. This shaft 30, as shown in FIGURE 2, is supported for rotation within one or more bearing assemblies 53 including journal and or thrust bearings carried by a conventional centre housing 54 which is secured in a suitable manner to the inboard side of the turbine housing 23 as by means of connecting bolts 56. The driving exhaust gases are discharged from the turbine wheel 16 in an axial direction into a lead out passage 57 formed within the turbine housing 23. This passage 57 has a generally circular cross section and guides the expelled exhaust gases away from the turbine wheel initially through a relatively short portion 58 generally in axial alignment with the rotational axis 55 of the turbine wheel and then through an angularly extending portion 59 toward an outlet opening 60 in the turbine housing wherein this outlet opening is aligned with a central axis 61 of the outlet conduit 28 and is axially offset with respect to the axially extending portion 58 of the passage. Thus, the exhaust gases flow further through the outlet opening 60 into the upstream end of the outlet conduit 28. Conveniently, mating flanges 62 and 64 are formed on the turbine housing 23 and the outlet conduit 28 to facilitate connection of the components to each other by a series of bolts 66. The bypass passage 22 is also formed within the turbine housing 23 and comprises a flow path of generally circular cross section extending from the inlet passage 48 to the exducer passage 57. Accordingly, the bypass passage 22 permits bypass flow of a portion of the exhaust gases through the turbine housing without driving com munication with the turbine wheel. The wastegate valve 20 is positioned generally at the down stream end of the bypass passage 22 to selec tively open and close the bypass passage and thereby control operation of the turbocharger. The bypass passage 22 is specifically con figured to inject the bypassed exhaust gases angularly into the passage 57 with a significant component of velocity directed generally in a downstream direction within the passage. More specifically, the bypass passsage extends from the inlet passage 48 in an axial direction generally in parallel with the rotational axis of the turbine wheel 16, and then turns angularly toward the passage 57. The bypass passage 22 terminates at a position opening into the angularly extending portion 59 of the passage 57 and facing generally in a downstream direction for flow of bypassed exhaust gases directly through the outlet opening 60 into the outlet conduit 28. With this geometry, the bypassed exhaust gases are injected in a generally downstream direction into the passage 57 to create a fluid ejector with a relatively decreased fluid pressure within the passage 57. More specifically, the bypassed exhaust gases have a relatively high velocity and energy level as compared with the gases flowing from the turbine wheel 16 whereby the bypassed gases tend to draw gases from the turbine wheel. This, in turn, tends to draw exhaust gases through the turbine housing inlet passage 48 to reduce the fluid pressure thereat and corre spondingly reduce the fluid pressure within the exhaust conduit 26 and the engine exhaust mani fold 24. Such pressure reduction at the exhaust manifold 24 constitutes a reduction in backpressure acting upon the engine to permit the engine to be operated with increased power and efficiency. The wastegate valve 20 is designed to permit the desired fluid ejector operation with optimum efficiency, while at the same time providing accurate control of turbocharger operation. More specifically, the wastegate valve 20 comprises a disc shaped valve head 68 sized for seated recep tion on a valve seat 70 at the downstream end of the bypass passage 22 to close the bypass passage, wherein this valve seat 70 can be machined conveniently by insertion of an approp riate tool through the offset outlet opening 60. The valve head 68 is carried relatively loosely, on a short stem 72 at the distal end of a crank arm 74 which has its opposite end secured for pivoting movement in response to rotation of an actuator shaft 76. As viewed in FIGURES 3 and 4, this actuator shaft 76 extends through a bushing 78 in an outer wall of the turbine housing 23 for connection to a crank link 80 pivotably connected to the end of a control rod 82. This control rod 82 is in turn coupled to a suitable turbocharger control actuator device, such as the type dis closed in commonly assigned U.S. Patent Nos. 4,251,050 or 4,256,019, for axially displacing the rod 82 in response to selected system parameters to rotate the actuator shaft 76 about its own axis. This shaft rotation functions to pivot the crank arm 74 and thereby move the valve head 68 with respect to the valve seat 70 between a closed or seated position, as viewed in solid lines in FIG URE 2, and an open position, as viewed in dotted lines in FIGURE 2. The actuator shaft 76 is positioned to extend generally transversely into the passage 57 at a position generally at the juncture of the passage 57 and the bypass passage 22, and generally between the bypass passage and the turbine wheel. In this position, the actuator shaft 76 is displaced axially to one side of the turbine wheel 16 where it does not substantially interfere with the flow of gases through the passage 57. More over, the crank arm 74 and the valve head extend at the side of the passage 57 generally in parallel with the flow of exhaust gases through the passage 57 when the wastegate valve is closed so as not to interfere with or impede flow of exhaust gases from the turbine wheel to the outlet open ing 60. However, when the wastegate valve is moved toward the open position, the crank arm 74 swings the valve head 68 angularly away from the bypass 22 to permit the bypassed exhaust gases to flow smoothly into the exducer passage 57 without substantially impeding the directional flow or velocity of the bypassed gases. That is, the valve head 68 moves toward the open position, as illustrated by the dotted lines in Figure 2, wherein the valve head is disposed at all times in a plane extending angularly toward the outlet opening 60 regardless of the degree to which the valve head is moved off the valve seat. Thus, when the valve is partially opened, bypassed exhaust gases impacting the valve head 68 are deflected thereby in a downstream direction and not in an opposite direction toward the turbine wheel. In this manner, optimised operation of the fluid ejector is ensured for optimum reduction of backpressure acting on the engine. In addition, when the wastegate valve is open, the valve head 68 is also oriented in a plane extending generally down stream with respect to the direction of gas flow through the passage 57 so as not to interfere substantially with gas flow through the exducer passage. It effectively forms a continuation of the side wall of the bypass 22 as shown in Figure 2. The bypass 22 and the wastegate valve 20 thus cooperate to provide an efficient fluid ejector for reducing backpressure on the engine when the valve 20 is open. This provision of an efficient fluid ejector is particularly desirable in that overall engine power and performance is increased without affecting the operation of the turbocharger. Importantly, in addition to its fluid ejector function, the wastegate valve 20 effectively regulates the flow of exhaust gases through the bypass passage 22 to control operation of the turbocharger in a normal manner. The turbine housing 23 also includes an air vent 84 for passage of cooling ambient air transversely between the passages 57 and 22. More speci fically, as viewed in FIGURES 2 and 4, the turbine housing 23 is cast to include separate tubular portions 85 and 86 respectively defining the bypass passage 22 and the passage 57, wherein these tubular portions project in spaced relation to each other from the inlet passage 48 and the turbine wheel 16. The tubular portions 85 and 86 merge with each other immediately upstream of the outlet opening 60 for intermixing of their respective exhaust gas flows prior to passage into the outlet conduit 28. Importantly, the spacing of the tubular portions 85 and 86 defines the trans versely open air vent 84 through which cooling ambient air may circulate to assist in cooling of the turbine housing. Accordingly, the air vent 84 interrupts the metal surfaces of the turbine hous ing between the bypass and lead out passages and thereby helps to prevent heat degradation of the metal surfaces which would otherwise be exposed on all sides to hot engine exhaust gases.