# Preparation of aminocyclopentanealkenoic acids.

## Abstract
A process is described for the preparation of com pounds of the formula 1 The process comprises hydrolysing an ester of the acid 1 .

## Claims
Claims 1. A process for the preparation of a compound of formula 1 EMI18.1 wherein X is cis or trans CH CH W is straight or branched C17 alkylene Y represents a saturated heterocyclic amino group which has 5 8 ring members and a optionally contains in the ring 0 , S , SO2 , NR4 where R4 is a hydrogen atom, C17 alkyl or aralkyl having a C1 4 alkyl portion 7 and or b is optionally substituted by one or moreC1 4 alkyl groups, R2 is i C36 alkenyl, optionally substituted by phenyl the phenyl being optionally substituted by C1 4 alkyl, C1 4 alkoxy, halogen, C57 cycloalkyl or phenyl C1 4 alkyl , biphenyl optionally substituted by C1 4 alkyl, C1 4 alkoxy or halogen , or naphthyl ii C1 12 alkyl iii C1 5 alkyl substituted by a phenyl optionally substituted by halogen, hydroxy,C1 6 alkyl, C1 6 alkoxy, C1 4 hydroxyalkoxy, trifluoromethyl, cyano, aryloxy e.g. phenoxy , C57 cycloalkyl, aralkoxy e.g. benzyloxy , dimethylaminomethyl, carboxamido CONH2 , thiocarboxamido CSNH2 , C14 alkanoyl, NR5R6 where R5 and R6 are the same or different and are each a hydrogen atom or C1 4 alkyl, or where NR5R6 is a saturated heterocyclic amino group as defined above for Y , C1 3 alkylthio, C13 alkylsulphinyl,C1 3 alkylsulphonyl, phenylalkyl having a C13 alkyl portion, aminosulphonyl, C1 3 alkanoylaminosulphonyl, phenylsulphonyl the phenyl portion being optionally substituted by C13 alkyl or C1 3 alkoxy , nitro, or thienyl , b thienyl or furanyl the thienyl and furanyl groups being optionally substituted by C1 6 alkyl, C16 alkoxy, aryl e.g. phenyl or phenyl C1 3 alkyl or phenyl C1 3 alkoxy the aryl or phenyl group in each case being optionally substituted byC1 3 alkyl, C1 3 alkoxy or halogen , aryloxy e.g. phenoxy , C5 7 cycloalkyl, halogen, nitro or thienyl , c biphenyl optionally substituted by phenyl or one or two C14 alkyl, C1 4 alkoxy or halogen substituents , or d naphthyl optionally substituted byC1 4 alkyl, C14 alkoxy or halogen and the physiologically acceptable salts and the solvates e.g. hydrates thereof, which process comprises hydrolysing an ester of formula 2 EMI19.1 in which R1 is a CR7R8R9 in which R7 and R8 are each phenyl optionally substituted by C1 4 alkyl, Ca1 4 alkoxy, di C1 4 alkylamino, nitro or halogen and is a hydrogen atom or a substituted or unsubstituted phenyl group as defined for R7 and R8 b CH2BR10 where B is O or S and R10 is C1 4 alkyl c CH2OCORll where R11 is C1 4 alkyl or methoxy EMI20.1 where RÚê is methyl or phenyl e tetrahydro 5 oxo furanyl f CH2CH2SIR3Ú where RÚ is C1 6 alkyl, e.g. methyl g CH2CC1 or h SIRÚ4RÚ5RÚ6 where R14, R15 and R16 are aryl e.g. phenyl or C1 6 alkyl, at least one of RÚ4, RÚ5 andRÚ6 being aryl, and optionally thereafter where the initial product is in the form of a salt liberating the free acid from the salt and or converting the salt into another salt, or where the initial product is an acid treating the acid with a base to form a salt. 2. A process as claimed in claim l in which R1 is a group of type a . 3. A process as claimed in claim 1 in which R1 is triphenylmethyl. 4. A process as claimed in claim 2 or claim 3 which is effected in the presence of an organic acid. 5. A process as claimed in claim 2 or claim 3 which is effected in the presence of trifluoroacetic acid. 6. Reprocess as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 which includes the step of preparing the compound of formula 2 by oxidising a corresponding hydroxy compound of formula 3 EMI21.1 other than a compound in which Y is in the a position and the ring hydroxy group is in the ss position . 7. A process as claimed in any one of the preceding claims in which W is C15 alkylene, X is cis CH CH , Y is piperidino, morpholino, homomorpholino, thiomorpholino or l,l dioxothiomorpholino, and R2 is a phenylalkyl group in which the alkyl portion contains 1 3 carbon atoms and the phenyl is substituted with one of the following groups C13 alkylthio, thienyl or phenyl optionally substituted by C13 alkyl, C1 3 alkoxy, halogen or phenyl or is thienylalkyl in which the alkyl portion contains 1 3 carbon atoms and the thienyl group is substituted by a phenyl group or cinnamyl. 8. A process as claimed in any one of the preceding claims in which X is cis CH CH , W is CH2CH2 Y is morpholino or piperidino, and R2 is phenyl C1 3 alkyl in which the phenyl group is substituted by phenyl which phenyl substituent is optionally substituted by C13 alkyl, C1 3 alkoxy or halogen phenylthienylmethyl or cinnamyl. 9. A process as claimed in any one of the preceding claims in which the compound produced is la Z ,2ss,5a 7 5 1,1 biphenyl 4 yl methoxyl 2 4 morpholinyl 3 oxocyclopentyl 4 heptenoic acid or a salt or hydrate thereof. 10. A process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 8 in which the compound produced is 1R 1 alpha Z , 2ss, 5 alpha 7 5 1,1 biphenyl 4 yl methoxyl 2 4 4 morpholinyl 3 oxocyclopentyl 4 heptenoic acid or a salt or hydrate thereof.

## Description
Preparation of aminocyclopentanealkenoic acids This invention concerns the preparation of aminocyclopentanealkenoic acids, and is particularly concerned with the preparation of compounds of the general formula 1 EMI1.1 wherein X is cis or trans CH CH ,W is straight or branched C1 7 alkylene Y represents a saturated heterocyclic amino group which has 5 8 ring members and a optionally contains in the ring 0 , S , SO2 , NR4 where R4 is a hydrogen atom, C17 alkyl or aralkyl having a C1 4 alkyl portion and or b is optionally substituted by one or more C1 4 alkyl groups R2 is i C3 5 alkenyl, optionally substituted by phenyl the phenyl being optionally substituted by C1 4 alkyl, C14 alkoxy, halogen, C57 cycloalkyl or phenyl C1 4 alkyl , biphenyl optionally substituted b C1 4 alkyl, C1 4 alkoxy or halogen , or naphthyl ii Cl l2 alkyl iii C15 alkyl substituted by a phenyl optionally substituted by halogen, hydroxy,C1 6 alkyl, C1 6 alkoxy, C1 4 hydroxyalkoxy, trifluoromethyl, cyano, aryloxy e.g. phenoxy , C5 7 cycloalkyl, aralkoxy e.g. benzyloxy , dimethylaminomethyl, carboxamido CONH2 , thiocarboxamido CSNH2 , C1 4 alkanoyl, NR5R6 where R5 and R6 are the same or different and are each a hydrogen atom or C14 alkyl, or where NR5R6 is a saturated heterocyclic amino group as defined above for Y , C13 alkylthio, C1 3 alkylsulphinyl,C1 3 alkylsulphonyl, phenylalkyl having a C1 3 alkyl portion, aminosulphonyl, C1 3 alkanoylaminosulphonyl, phenylsulphonyl the phenyl portion being optionally substituted by C1 3 alkyl or C13 alkoxy , nitro, or thienyli, b thienyl or furanyl tthe thienyl and furanyl groups being optionally substituted byC1 6 alkyl, C16 alkoxy, aryl e.g. phenyl or phenyl C1 3 alkyl or phenyl C1 3 alkoxy the aryl or phenyl group in each case being optionally substituted by C1 3 alkyl, C1 3 alkoxy or halogen , aryloxy e.g.phenoxy , C5 7 cycloalkyl, halogen, nitro or thienylJ, c biphenyl optionally substituted by phenyl or one or two C14 alkyl, C14 alkoxy or halogen substituents , or d naphthyl optionally substituted by C1 4 alkyl, C14 alkoxy or halogen and the physiologically acceptable salts and the solvates e.g. hydrates thereof. The structural formulae herein are to be understood to include the enantiomers of each of the compounds concerned as well as mixtures of the enantiomers, including racemates, even though the precise structure as set out only relates to one enantiomer. These compounds have shown endoperoxide and thromboxane antagonist activity and are therefore of interest in the treatment of asthma and cardiovascular diseases. This invention provides a process for the preparation of a compound of formula 1 or a salt or solvate thereof, which comprises hydrolysing an ester of formula 2 EMI3.1 in which R1 is a CR7R8R9 in which R7 and R8 are each phenyl optionally substituted by C14 alkyl, C1 4 alkoxy, di C1 4 alkyl amino, nitro or halogen and R9 is a hydrogen atom or a substituted or unsubstituted phenyl group as defined for R7 and R8 b CH2BR10 where B is O or S and R10 is C1 4 alkyl c CH2OCOR11 where R11 is C14 alkyl or methoxy EMI3.2 where RÚê is methyl or phenyl e tetrahydro 5 oxo 2 furanyl f CH2CH2SiR33where R13 is C alkyl, e.g. methyl g CH2CC1 or h SiR14R5R16 where R14, R15 and R16 are aryl e.g.phenyl or C1 6 alkyl, at least one of R14, R15 andR16 being aryl. R1 is preferably a group a , for example triphenylmethyl in which the phenyl groups are optionally substituted by methyl, methoxy or nitro or diphenylmethyl in which the phenyl groups are optionally substituted by halogen, methyl, methoxy or dimethylamino . More preferably, R1 is triphenylmethyl. The hydrolysis of the esters of formula 2 can in general be effected under neutral or mildly acidic or basic conditions, optionally in an organic or aqueous organic solvent and at any suitable temperature, conveniently 5 to 250C, preferably at room temperatures. Thus when R1 is a group of the type a , b , c , d , e , f , or h , hydrolysis may be effected in the presence of a strong acid, preferably an organic acid such as trifluoroAcetic acid. Suitable solvents for such hydrolyses include tetrahydrofuran, ether, aqueous ether and CH2C12.The reaction may be performed at room temperature. Alternatively, esters in which R1 is a group h can be hydrolysed with an acid such as acetic acid in a suitable solvent e.g. aqueous tetrahydrofuran .This reaction may be performed at room temperature. When R is a group of type b , hydrolysis may also be effected under neutral conditions in the presence of HgC12 for example using aqueous CH3CN as solvent .These esters may also be hydrolysed in the presence of AgNO3, for example using buffered aqueous tetrahydrofur an, dioxan or dimethoxyethane as solvent. The reaction is preferably effected at room temperature. Esters in which R1 i s CH2CC13 may be hydrolysed by treatment with zinc, for example at a pH of 4.2 7.2.Tetrahydrpfuran, dioxan and dimethoxyethane are suitable solvents. The reation is preferably effected at room temperature. Esters in which R1 is a group h may also be hydrolysed by a quaternary ammonium fluoride e.g. t But 4NF or HF, for example using tetrahydrofuran or CH3CN as the reaction solvent. This reaction may be performed at room temperature. Esters in which R1 is a group of the type c , d or e may also be hydrolysed under basic conditions, for example in the presence of an inorganic base such as Na2HPO4. The solvent may for example be an aqueous alcohol e.g. methanol and the reaction may be performed at room temperature. The acid of formula 1 produced is conveniently isolated in the form of a salt, for example a salt with an organic base, such as piperidine. If desired, the free acid may be liberated from the salt, and converted into another salt if required. The salt initially isolated may also be converted directly into another salt without liberation of the acid, by exchange of cation. Thus, salts of inorganic bases may be prepared by adding the base to a solution of the acid of formula 1 in an aqueous organic solvent. Certain salts may also be prepared by exchange of cation for example, calcium salt may be prepared by addition of a calcium salt e.g. the chloride or acetate to a solution of a salt of a compound of formula 1 , e.g. an amine or alkali metal salt. In a further aspect of the invention the esters of formula 2 are prepared by oxidising a corresponding hydroxy compound of formula 3 EMI5.1 other than compounds in which Y is in the a configuration and the ring hydroxy group is in the B configuration . Suitable methode of oxidation include using a Crvi oxidising reagent in a suitable solvent, e.g.chromic acid in acetone e.g. Jones reagent, preferably used in the presence of a diatomaceous silica such as Celite or Cr03 in pyridine. These reagents are for example used at temperatures of 20C to room temperature. Other important methods include using an activated sulphur reagent, e.g. i N chlorosuccinimide dimethyl sulphidecpmplex in a suitable splvent e.g. toluene or dichloromethane at temperatures of for example 25 to 250C, preferably at 0 5 , ii a dialkyl sulphoxide e.g. dimethylsulphoxide activated by a suitable electrophilic reagent such as oxalyl chloride, acetyl bromide or thionyl chloride in a suitable solvent e.g. toluene or dichloromethane , e.g. at 70 to 20 C dicyclohexylcarbodiimide can alao be used as the electrophilic reagent preferably in the presence of CF3COOH or its pyridinium salt at for example 10eC to room temperature, using the same solventst or iii pyridine S03 complex in dimethylsulphoxide, preferably at oec to room temperature. The choice of oxidation method will depend on the nature of R1. When Y is in the a configuration conditions should be chosen to effect epimerisation after oxidation, for example by using a CrVi oxidising agent. Any hydroxy or amino group present in the starting material and required in the end product should be suitable protected in this reaction. The compounds of formula 3 may be prepared by esterification of the corresponding carboxylic acid, i.e. a compound of formula 3 in which R1 represents a hydrogen atom. Conventional esterification methods may be used. For example, compounds of formula 3 in which This a group of the type f or g may be prepared by treating a reactive derivative of the corresponding carboxylic acid with an appropriate alcohol R1OH.The reactions may for example be carried out at 100C to room temperature using a solvent such as acetone. The reactive derivative is conveniently a mixed anhydride of the acid, formed for example by treatment of the acid with a chloroformate in the presence of a suitable base, e.g. triethylamine at 120C. The chloroformate may for example be a C16 alkyl e.g. iso butyl , aryl e.g. phenyl or aralkyl e.g. benzyl chloroformate. Again for example, compounds of formula 3 in which R1is a group of the type a , b , c , d , e , or h may be prepared by reacting the corresponding carboxylic acid with an appropriate halide R17 Hal, where Hal represents halogen and R17 is as just defined for R1. The reaction is carried out in the presence of a suitable base, e.g. potassium t butoxide or a sterically hindered amine such as triethylamine, N,N diisopropylethylamine, or dicyclohexylamine in a suitable solvent such as acetonitrile, dimethylsulphoxide, dimethylformamide or CH2Cl2 for example at a temperature from 0 C to room temperature. In another example, compounds of formula 3 in which R1is a group of the type a where R9 is a hydrogen atom may be prepared by reacting the corresponding carboxylic acid with an appropriate diphenyldiazomethane in a solvent such as benzene at e.g. room temperature. The parent carboxylic acids required for the preparation of the esters of formula 3 may be prepared as described in British Patent Specification 2075503A. The process of the invention is particularly applicable to the preparation of compounds of formula 1 as defined below. The alkyl groups referred to above in the definition of the compounds of formula 1 may be straight or branched. W may for example contain 1 5 carbon atoms in a straight or branched chain, and is preferably CH2CH2 . The compounds of formula 1 are capable of salt formation with bases and the compounds are preferably used in the form of such salts. Examples of suitable salts are alkali metal e.g. sodium and potassium , alkaline earth metal e.g. calcium or magnesium , ammonium, substituted ammonium e.g. tromethamine or dimethylamino ethanol , piperazine, N,N dimethyl piperazine, morpholine, piperidine and tertiary amino e.g. triethylamine salts. Inorganic salts are preferred. X is preferably a cis CH CH group. The heterocyclic amino group Y may for example have a 5, 6 or 7 membered ring, e.g. pyrrolidino, piperidino, morpholino, piperazino, thiomorpholino, 1,1 dioxothiomorpholinio, homomorpholino and hexamethyleneimino. Examples of the optional substituents which may be present on a second nitrogen atom in the ring are methyl, ethyl and benzyl. The carbon atoms of the heterocyclic rings may for example be substituted by methyl or ethyl. Y is preferably piperidino, morpholino, homomorpholino, thiomorpholino or 1,1 dioxothiomorpholino, and compounds in which Y is a morpholino or piperidino group are particularly preferred. The amino group Y enables the compounds to form salts with organic acids, e.g. maleates. R2 may for example be C5 10 alkyl e.g. pentyl or decyl C35 alkenyl e.g. allyl, optionally substituted by phenyl or C15 alkyl e.g. methyl or propyl substituted by phenyl optionally substituted by a C14 alkyl e.g. tert.butyl , C5 7 cycloalkyl e.g.cyclohexyl , C13 alkylthio e.g. methylthio , phenyl C1 3 alkyl e.g. benzyl or thienyli, furanyl or thienyl optionally substituted by a phenyl group , biphenyl optionally substituted by C13 alkyl e.g.methyl , C13 alkoxy e.g. methoxy , halogen e.g.chlorine or phenyli, or naphthyl. R2 is preferably a phenylalkyl group in which the alkyl portion contains 1 3 carbon atoms and the phenyl is substituted with one of the following groups C1 3 alkylthio, thienyl or phenyl optionally substituted by C13 alkyl, C13 alkoxy, halogen or phenyl or is thienylalkyl in which the alkyl portion contains 1 3 carbon atoms and the thienyl group is substituted by a phenyl group or cinnamyl. Particularly preferred Rê groups are phenylalkyl groups in which the alkyl portion is a C13 alkylene chain and the phenyl group carries a phenyl substituent, preferably in the para position which phenyl substituent is optionally substituted by a C13 alkyl, C13 alkoxy or halogen, this additional substituent preferably being in the meta or more particularly the para position or thienylmethyl group particularly a 4 thienylmethyl group substituted by a phenyl group, which substituent is preferably in the 2 position or cinnamyl. Especially important R2 groups are benzyl groups substituted preferably in the para position by phenyl, 4 methoxyphenyl or 4 methylphenyl. A particularly preferred group of compounds has the formula 1 in which X is cis CH CH , W is CH2CH2 Y is morpholino or piperidino, and R2 is phenyl C1 3 alkyl in which the phenyl group is substituted by phenyl which phenyl substituent is optionally substituted by C13 alkyl, C13 alkoxy or halogen phenylthienylmethyl or cinnamyl, and the physiologically acceptable salts and solvates e.g. hydrates thereof. Particularly important compounds in this latter group are those in which Y is morpholino and R2 is l,l biphenylmethyl l,l biphenylmethyl substituted in the para position by methyl, methoxy or chloro or in the meta position by methoxy l,l biphenylpropyl 2 phenyl thien 4 yl methyl or cinnamyl and those in which Y is piperidino and R2 is l,l biphenylmethyl or 4 methoxy l 1 biphenylmethyl. Especially important are 1 alpha Z ,2ss,5 alpha 7 5 1,1 biphenyl 4 yl methoxy 2 4 morpholinyl 3 oxocyclophenyl 4 heptenoix acid and 1R 1 alpha Z ,2ss 5 alpha 5 1,1 biphenyl 4 yllmethoxyl 2 4 morpholinyl 3 oxocyclopentylT 4 heptenoic acid and the hydrates and salts thereof, particularly the calcium, piperidine, piperazine andN,N dimethylpiperazine salts. The calcium salts are particularly important. In general, compounds of formula 1 in which the carbon atom carrying the CH2 2XWCOOH group is in the R configuration and mixtures containing this isomer are preferred. The following examples illustrate the invention.Temperatures are in C. The following abbreviations are used TLC thin layer chromatography using SiO2 PE petroleum ether boiling at 40 60C THF tetrahydrofuran EA ethyl acetate HOAc acetic acid DMSO dimethylsulphoxide DMF dimethylformamide. Chromatography was carried out using silica gel unless otherwise stated. Dried refers to drying with MgSO4. Hyflo is a filtration aid. The proportion of the following intermediates is described in British Patent Specification 2075503AIntermediate 1 1 alpha Z ,2ss,3 alpha ,5 alpha 7 5 1,1 Biphenyl 4 yl methoxy 3 hydroxy 2 4 morpholinyl cyclopentyli 4 heptenoic acid.Intermediate 2 1R 1 alpha Z ,2ss,3 alpha ,5 alpha 7 5 1,1 Biphenyl 4 yl methoxy 3 hydroxy 2 4 morpholinyl cyclopentyl 4 heptenoic acid.Intermediate 3 1 alpha Z ,2ss,5 alpha 7 5 1,1 Biphenyl 4 yl methoxy 2 4 morpholinyl 3 oxycyclopentyl 4 heptenoic acid.Intermediate 4 1R 1 alpha Z ,2ss,5 alpha 7 5 1,1 Biphenyl 4 yl methoxy 2 4 morpholinyl 3 oxocyclopentyl 4 heptenoic acid.Intermediate 5 1 alpha Z ,2ss,5 alpha Triphenylmethyl 7 5 1,1 4 yli methoxyl 2 4 morpholinyl 3 oxocyclopentyli 4 heptenoate Triphenylmethyl chloride 1.3159 was added at 2 to a solution of Intermediate 3 1.5g and triethylamine 0.88ml in CH2C12 9ml . After lh at 2 4 the mixture was diluted with pH 6 phosphate buffer 75ml and ether 75ml . The ether layer was washed with water 2x25ml , dried and evaporated. The residue was purified by chromatography using ether as eluent to give the title compound as a foam 1.843g .Analysis Found C,80.2 H,6.9 N,2.1 C48H49N05 required C,80.1 H,6.9 N,1.95 Intermediate 6 1R 1 alpha Z ,2ss,5 alpha Triphenylmethyl 7 5 1,1 BiPhenyl 4 yllmethoxyl 2 t4 morpholinyl 3 oXocyclopent 4 heptenoate To a cooled 5 10 stirred solution of Intermediate 2 methane sulphonate lg and triphenylmethyl chloride 0.6g in CH2C12 5ml was added triethylamine 0.6ml .The mixture was stirred at less than 10 for 0.5h when more triethylamine 1.7 ml was added followed by a solution of pyridine sulphur trioxide complex 1.1g in DMSO 5ml . The cooling bath was removed and the mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 1.5h. Water 30ml was added and the mixture was extracted with ether 2x20ml . The combined extracts were washed with water 15ml , 1M citric acid 8ml and water 10ml , dried and evaporated. The residue was purified by chromatography using 2 1 ether PE as eluent to give the title compound as a foam 0.75g .Analysis Found C,80.0 H,6.7 N,1.8 C48HjgNO5 requires C,80.1 H,6.9 N,1.95 D 73C CHCl3 Intermediate 7 1 alpha Z ,2ss,5 alpha Diphenylmethyl 7 5 1,1 Biphenyl 4 yl methoxy 2 4 morpholinyl 3 oxocyclopentyl 4 heptenoate A solution of Intermediate 3 0.5g and diphenyldiazomethane 0.6g in benzene 15ml was stirred at ambient temperature for 4h. The solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue was purified by chromatography using ether as eluent to give the title compound as an oil 0.484g .Analysis Found C,78.3 H,7.0 N,2.15 C42H45NO5 requires C,78.35 H,7.05 N,2.1 Intermediate 8 1R 1 alpha Z ,2ss,5 alpha Acetyloxy methyl 7 5 1,1 Biphenyl 4 yl methoxy 2 4 morpholinyl 3 oxocyclopentyl 4 hentenoate A solution of Intermediate 4 0.436g in acetone 6ml containing triethylamine 0.3ml and bromomethylacetate 0.3g was stirred at 20 for 2h. The mixture was poured into,pH 6.5 phosphate buffer 50ml and extracted with ether 3x50ml . The combined extracts were dried and evaporated to give an oil. Purification by chromatography using ether as eluent gave the title compound as an oil 0.3519 . Analysis Found C,69.8 H,7.3 N,2.4 C32H39NO7 requires C,69.9 H,7.15 N,2.55 alpha D21.5 8.8 CHCl3 Intermediate 9 a 1 alpha Z ,2ss,5 alpha 2,2,2 Trichloroethyl 7 5 1,1 Biphenyl 4 yl methoxy 2 4 morpholinyl 3 oxocyclopentyl 4 heptenoate Iso butyl chloroformate 0.68ml was added to a cooled 12 stirred solution of Intermediate 3 0.8g and triethylamine 0.92ml in acetone 32ml under nitrogen. After 0.5h 2,2,2 trichloroethanol 0.76ml was added and 0.5h later the mixture was allowed to warm to 00. After 3.5h the mixture was diluted with pH 6.5 phosphate buffer 60ml and extracted with ether 3x65ml .The combined extracts were dried and evaporated and the residue was purified initially by chromatography using 1 1 ether PE as eluent then by trituration with ether to give the title compound as a solid 0.22g m.p. 86.5 88 . b 1 alpha Z ,2ss,5 alpha 2 Trimethylsilylethyl 7 5 1,1 Biphenyl 4 yl methoxy 2 4 morpholinyl 3 oxocyclopentylJ 4 heptenoate, m.p. 43.5 45 from Intermediate 3 and trimethylsilylethanol. Purification by chromatography using 1 2 ether PE as eluent.Intermediate 10 1R 1 alpha Z ,2ss,3 alpha ,5 alpha Methoxymethyl 7 5 1,1 Biphenyl 4 yli methoxy 3 hydroxy 2 4 morpholinyl cyclopentyl 4 heptenoate Chloromethylmethyl ether 0.16 ml was added to a stirred solution of Intermediate 2 0.98g and dicyclohexylamine 0.44 ml in DMF 10 ml . After 15min the mixture was diluted with pH 6 phosphate buffer 50 ml and extracted with EA 3x50 ml . The combined extracts were washed with water 50 ml , dried and evaporated and the residue was purified by chromatography eluting with 9 1 EA methanol to give the title compound as an oil 0.8g .Analysis Found C, 70.55 H, 7.9 N, 3.1 C312H41NO6 requires C, 71.1 H, 7.9 N, 2.7 cL D 61.0 CHCl3 Intermediate 11 1R 1 alpha Z ,2ss,5 alpha Methoxymethyl 7 5 1,1 Biphenyl 4 yl methoxy 2 4 morpholinyl 3 oxocyclopentyl 4 heptenoate Pyridine sulphur trioxide complex 0.64g inDMSO 5 ml was added to a cold 0 , stirred solution of Intermediate 10 0.53g and triethylamine l.lml in CH2C12 3ml . The mixture was allowed to attain ambient temperature over 3h and then poured into pH 6 phosphate buffer 50 ml and extracted with EA 3x30 ml .The combined extracts were dried and evaporated and the residue was purified by chromatography using 17 3 EA PE b.p. 60 80 to give the title compound as a solid 0.34g m.p. 47.5 48.5 . alpha D26 7.45 CHCl3 Example l 1 alpha Z ,2ss,5 alpha 7 5 1,1 Biphenyl 4 yl methoxy 2 4 morpholinyl 3 oxocyclopentyl 4 heptenoic acid, compound with piperidine 1 1 Method a To a cooled ice water stirred suspension ofIntermediate 1 60g and triphenylmethyl chloride 35.4g in CH2C12 240ml was added triethylamine 36.5ml . This mixture was stirred at less than 100 for 0.5h when more triethylamine 98 ml was added, followed by a solution of pyridine sulphur trioxide 66.5g in DMSO 240 ml . The coolant was removed and the temperature of the mixture allowed to rise to 21 over 1.75 h.Water 600 ml was added and the mixture extracted with ether 1x420ml, 1x300m1 . The combined extracts were washed with water 600 ml , 1M citric acid solution 480ml and water 600ml , and then treated with trifluoroacetic acid 60 ml at 20 for 20min. The solution was carefully neutralised with 8 NaHC03 solution 830ml and the layers separated.The ethereal phase was washed with 20 brine 600ml dried Na2SO4 , made up to a total volume of 1450ml 24vol with more ether and stirred at 200 during the addition of piperidine 9.36g in ether 50ml .The mixture was stored at 5 overnight and then filtered, washed with ether 3x180ml and dried 3h lmmHg, 21 to give the title compound 40.9g , m.p. 101 104 . T.L.C. SiO2 CH2Cl2 MeOH HOAc H2O 95 4 0.5 0.5 Rf 0.31Method b A solution of Intermediate 5 0.512g in ether 8 ml was stirred with trifluoroacetic acid 0.7 ml at 20 for 0.5h. Ether 25 ml was added and the mixture poured into 15 aqueous pH 6 phosphate buffer 30ml . The layers were separated and the ethereal phase washed with brine 20ml , dried and evaporated. The residue in ether 10 ml was treated with piperidine 0.068g at 200 for 2h. The resultant solid was filtered off, washed with ether 3x4ml and dried to give the title compound 0.328g , m.p. 103 106 .Method c Trifluoroacetic acid 3 ml was added dropwise to a cooled 0 stirred solution of Intermediate 7 0.39 in 1 1 CH2C12 ether 3ml . After 15 min the cooling bath was removed and the mixture stirred at ambient temperature for 2.25h. The mixture was diluted with pH 6 phosphate buffer 250ml and extracted with ether 3x30ml . The combined extracts were washed with brine 20ml , dried and evaporated. A solution of the residue in ether 15 ml was treated with piperidine 0.0469 at 20 for 1.5h. The resultant solid was filtered off, washed with ether 2x10ml and dried to give the title compound 0.llg m.p. 95.5 99 .Method d A mixture of Intermediate 9a 28mg and activated zinc dust ca. 0.5g in THF 4 ml and pH 6.35 phosphate buffer 0.8ml was rapidly stirred at ambient temperature for 3h. The mixture was diluted with pH 6.35 buffer 20ml and extracted with ether 3x20ml . The combined extracts were dried and evaporated and the residue was purified by chromatography using ether as eluent.The oil in ether lml was treated with an excess of piperidine and stored at 4 for 19h. The precipitate was filtered off, dried and evaporated to give the title compound as a solid 9mg m.p. 97.5 99 .Method e A solution of Intermediate 9b 40mg in trifluoroacetic acid 0.8ml was kept at 20 for lOmin then poured into pH 6.5 phosphate buffer 50ml and extracted with EA 2x50ml . The combined extracts were washed with pH 6.5 phosphate buffer 2x40ml , dried and evaporated and the residue was purified by chromatography using ether as eluent. The residue in ether was treated with an excess of piper id ine to give the title compound as a solid 4mg m.p. 94 96.5 . Example 2 1R 1 alpha Z ,2ss,5 alpha 7 5 1,1 Biphenyl 4 yl methoxyl 2 4 morpholinyl 3 oxocyclopentyl 4 heptenoic acid, compound with piperidine 1 1 Method a A solution of Intermediate 6 0.7g in 1 1 CH2C12ether 20ml containing trifluoroacetic acid 0.75ml was stirred at 10 for 1.5h. The mixture was diluted with pH 6 phosphate buffer 75ml and extracted with ether 2x30ml . The combined extracts were washed with brine 20ml , dried and evaporated. The residue in ether 15ml was treated with piperidine 100mg at ambient temperature for lh. The resultant solid was filtered off, washed with ether 2x10ml and dried to give the title compound 0.36g m.p. 97 101.5 Analysis Found C,72.4 H,8.4 N,4.9 C29H5NO.C5EllN required C,72.6 H,8.2 X,4.9 aJD 10.8 CHCl3 Method b A solution of Intermediate 8 SOmg in methanol 6ml was treated with 0.5M Na2HPO4 1.5ml and stirred at 20 for 30h. The mixture was concentrated in vacuo at 20.0, diluted with pH 6.5 phosphate buffer 30ml and extracted with EA 4x20ml .The combined extracts were dried and evaporated and the residue was purified by chromatography using ether as eluent to give an oil. The oil in ether 0.5ml was treated with piperidine lOmg and cooled to 0 for 16h. The precipitate was filtered off, washed with ether 2x2ml and dried to give the title compound llmg m.p. 101 102.5 .Method c Trifluoroacetic acid 3ml was added dropwise to a cooled 0 stirred solution of Intermediate lla 0.5g in 1 1 CH2C12 ether 3 ml . The cooling bath was removed and the mixture allowed to warm to ambient temperature over lh. The mixture was neutralised with 8 NaHC03 solution, poured into pH 6 phosphate buffer 50ml and extracted with ether 4x50ml . The combined extracts were dried and evaporated and the residue in ether 5 ml was treated with piperidine 135mg . The precipitated solid was filtered off, washed with ether and dried to give the title compound 0.239 , m.p. 93 99 .Example 3 1 alpha Z ,2ss,5alpha 7 5 1,1 Biphenyl 4 yl methoxyl 2 4 morpholinyl 3 oxocyclopentyl 4 heptenoic acid A suspension of the product of Example 1 2 g in water 50 ml and pH 6 phosphate buffer 100 ml was extracted with ether 4 x 50 ml . The combined extracts were dried and evaporated to give a solid 1.69 g . A portion was crystallised from ether isopentane to give the title compound m.p. 99 100 .