# Automatic nozzle for fuel economy destined for carburators of internal combustion engines of vehicles.

## Abstract
The present invention relates to an automatic nozzle for fuel economy suitable for all types of vehicles, which is mounted at the carburator and feeds, limits and stops the mixture or increases the air supply through the nozzle to the engine, when the diaphragm of the accelerator 18 of the carburator closes and braking of the car is performed. According to a preferable embodiment of the invention, the invented automatic nozzle is made, in turn of assembly, from a housing 1 , a diaphragm or piston 2 , a king pin 3 , a main body 4 , a spring 5 , a fitting part 6 , a spring regulator or regulator for the displacement of the diaphragm or for the displacement of the needle 7 , a nut 8 of the spring regulator, tightening nuts of the regulators 23 and 24 , a clip connector 9 of the needle, a needle 10 , a nozzle 11 , an underpressure speed member 12 , a conductor 13 , an electrical switch 16 and a control lamp 17 . The automatic nozzle works using the suction of the engine supplied through the pipe 13 , where one end of the said pipe is fitted at the suction 14 of the engine and the other end at the automatic nozzle, on the underpressure speed member 12 . When the diaphragm 18 of the accelerator of the carburator is closed, the suction in the chamber of the automatic nozzle is increased, and forces the diaphragm 2 to move the king pin 3 which is connected to the needle 10 and closes the hole 11b , stopping the flow of the mixture, or the opposite i.e. opens the hole 11b allowing more air to stop the flow of mixture. The said automatic nozzle may also operate electrically using an electromagnet.

## Claims
CLAIMS I. Automatic nozzle for fuel economy destined for carburat tors of internal combustion engines of vehicles, which comprises in asemblying sequence a housing I , a diaphragm or piston 2 , a king pin 3 , a main body 4 , a spring 5 , a fitting part 6 , a spring regulator or regulator for the displacement of the diaphragm or for the displacement of the needle n , a nut 8 of the spring regulator, tightening nuts of the regulators 23 and 24 , a clip connector of the needle 9p, a needle IO , a nozzle II , an accessory of underpressure speed I2 , a pipe I3 , an electric switch I6 and a control lamp I7 , characterised by that when the said automatic nozzle is connected at the position of the decelleration, normal course, or acceleration nozzle of any kind of carburator, it may work proportionally to the suction underpressure of the engine, in creasing or desreasing the feed Ïf fuel mixture or air and achieving fu2l economy. 2. Automatic nozzle as in clai I, characterised by that the said nozzle works mechanically, there the said needle IO closes the hole IIb of the nozzle, moved by the king pin 3 , which is moved by the diaphragm or piston 2 , to achieve the interruption of fuel feed. 3. Automatic nozzle as in claim I, characterised by that the said nozzle works electrically, where the said needle IO moves through the electromagnet 2, Fig. 4 , which is fed through an electric switch from the motor, the multiplier or in between them, where during the operation when the underpressure is increased, the electric current feed to the electromagnet is interrupted, and the said electromagnet does not attract the kingpin 3 and the needle embodied in the king pin is pushed by a spring 5, Fig. 4 and closes the hole lIb , cutting the fuel feed to the carburator. 4. Automatic nozzle as in claim I, characterised by that according to one embodiment of the invention, a double sided pipe Fig. 5 may be placed on the automatic nozzle replacing the diaphragm 2 and the spring 5 , where the said double sided pipe may operate in connection to a mechanical or elec tric automatic nozzle. 5. Automatic nozzle ar in the above claims I 4, characterised by that it is connected via an electric svzitch to an indicating instrument or buzzer provided onto the vehicle s panel, where the said diaphragm is depressed by the said king pin and closes the circuit supplying current and thus the indicating lamp is lit or the buzzer is operating during the operation of the invented economy system.

## Description
THE BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The prior art has not made a similar object. Tile up today used carburators have a problem in that they cannot control the flof of fuel in correspondence to the horsepower, which is at any moment supplied by the vehicles engine. Thus, we have because of the non controlled supply of fuel a substantial increase in the fuel consumption, and this is manifested by the proportion of non burnt fuel contained in the flue gases. This waste of fuel results further in an increase of the environmental pollution and in a more rapid deterioration of the engine. The present invention eliminates the above disadvantages of the prior art. These and other advantages of the present invention will be made clear in the analytical specification below. BRIEF DESCRIPTIG1 OF THE FIGURES The present invention may be understood more fully by reference to the accompanying figures, which show an illustrative embodiment of the invention, such that the invention may be made clear to those skilled in the art. Fig. I shows in cross section the accessories which when assembled make up the automatic nozzle for fuel aconomy. Fig. 2 shows a carburator of an internal combustion engine connected to the invented automatic nozzle. Fig. 3 shows in assemblying sequence the accessories of the automatic nozzle. Fig. 4 shows a mechanical automatic nozzle, which according to a preferable embodiment of the invention operates with a piston 2 , where a fitting part 28 is mounted to achieve an air tightness of the suction space of the invented automatic nozzle. Fig. 5 shows an accessory of a double sided tube, which according to an alternative embodiment of the invention may replace the diaphragm 2 , and the spring 5 . Fig 6 shows an automatic nozzle in cross section according to anotber alternative embodiment of the invention, which is of a smaller volume and comprises a housing I , a diaphragm or pi ston 2 , a main body 4 and a nozzle II embodied in it, a spring 5 . Fig. 7 shows an automatic nozzle, which according to another alternative embodiment of the invention may operate as a transpiration nozzle. ANALYTICAL DESPIPTION Gw T z IìJVEl.TItIff The invented automatic nozzle operates in correspondence to the suction underpressure of the engine . Thus, the automatic nozzle may feed or interrupt the fuel mixture, responding to the variations of underpressure, which is proportional to the horsepower provided by the engine. According to a preferable embodiment of the invention Fig. I , when the diaphragm I8 of the carburator closes, the suction will increase and the underpressure will be transmitted via pipe I3 and through the hole of underpressure speed I2a of accessory I2 , where the pipe I3 is mounted, to the chamber comprising the main body 4 , diaphragm 2 and housing I , which have been assembled in such a way that there exists an air tightness of the internal space between the diaphragm 2 and main body 4 from the atmosphere. Por this reason, diaphragm 2 will move the king pin 3 which being depressed by the spring 5 will move backwards and thus the needle 10 which is connected to the king pin 3 with a connector 9 rubber or spring , will also move.The needle IO closes the hole IIb of the nozzle II , mounted at the nozzle position I5 of the carburator. Thus the passage of mixture to the pipe of the carburator via the inlet manifold to the engineis combustion chambers is stopped. To ensure the air tightness between the underpressure chamber and the mixture nozzle II , a fitting part 6 is mounted on the regulator 7 allowing the king pin 3 to reciproce within it. The regulator 7 bolted onto the main body 4 forces the sprig 5 , hose one end touches te main body and the other eiid touches the base of the king pin 3 , to push the diap hragm 2 . For the stabilisation of the regulator 7 , the nut 8 is provided which when bolted fixes the regulator 7 onto the main body 4 . The nozzle II is bolted on this regulator and supports the automatic nozzle mechanism. According to another preferable embodiment of the invention, the nozzle may also work electrically. In this case, the needle is moved by an electromagnet k fig. 4 , which is mounted oil the automatic nozzle and is fed via sn electric switch of th internal combustion engine or of the multiplier or in between them, wlnch during operation is released by the king pi9 3a or te diaphragm when the underpressure is increased, and cuts the electric current supplied by the engine s switch, which passes through the electrical conducts I6 resulting in the interruption of operation of the electromagnet.When the electric current is cut, the electromagnet t stops attracting the kingDin 3 , onto which the needle is embodied, and the needle pushed by a spring 5,Fig. 4 closes the hole IIb, Fig. 4 of the mixture nozzle II and the mixture is not introduced in the combustion chambers. According to another preferable embodiment of the invention, the mechanical automatic nozzle works with a piston 2. , where a fitting part 28 is mounted for the air tightness of the suction space of the automatic nozzle. The hole of der pressure speed I2a is embodied in the main body 4 and the automatic nozzle may be connected to a control lamp 17 , which operates or not during the operation of the economy system. According to another preferable embodiment of the invention, the automatic nozzle may operate as a transpiration air nozzle,mounted onto a carburator and resultino in an economy of fuel mixture in the motor. In other words, when the automatic nozzle is fitted on the carburator jet air and its hole IIb,Yig. 7 is larder than the normal hole, connected with a pipe those one end is connected with the underpressure speed hole location y2 , Fig 7 whilst the other end I3a, Fig. 2 is connected with tiie point 14, Fig. 2 between the carburator accelerator diaphragm and the motor intake valves, it will operate as hereunder deta iled When the accelerator diaphragm I8 of carburator closes, suction vnll increase, and from the pipe I3 the undeepressure will be transmitted from the said pipe to the chamber through the underpressure speed hole I2a, Fig. 7 of location I2, Fig 7 . Sad chamber is formed by the main body 4, Fig. 7 a diaphragm 2, Fig. 7 and the shell I, Fig. 7 which are fitted in such a way as to ensure tightness of the interior area bet preen diaphragm 2, Fig. 7 and main body 4, Fig. 7 ant the atmosphere.Por such reason, the diaphragm 2, Fig. 7 will move the king pin 3, Fig. 7 pressed by the spring 5, Big.7 which will give way at that moment thus being moved the kingpin 3, Fig. 7 which is cinnected with the needle by a clip 9, Fig. 7 will be displaced and Open the hole lib, Fig. 7 of the nozzle II, Fig. 7 , so as to allovr more air to pass through, the result being reduction or discontinuation of the fuel mixture supply, from the fuel mixture nozzle I5a to the mixture pipe 22 of the carburator Pig. 2 . The aforesaid nozzle can also operate electrically, placing a switch to which an electric nozzle will be connected as in Fig. 4 . According to another preferable embodiment of the invention Fi0. 5 , a double sided tube 27 may be fixed at the automatic nozzle of Fig. I, connected via its surface 26 at point Ia of the nozzle of Fig. I, replacing the diaphragm 2 and the spring 5 . During operation when the diaphragm 18 of the carburator accelerator closes and the suction through pipe I3 is increased and is transmitted through the underpessure speed hole I2a to the double sided tube 27 , the said tube will move so that its end 2P, , touching the king pin 3 where the needle IO is connected, it will move the said king pin 3 where the needle will close the hole IIb of the nozzle II , This doublesided tube may also be used in the nozzle of Figure 4 and 7. It me furthermove also work electrically in connection to a s tch I6 which will be activated by the end 2a which will be connected to en electric nozzle, 89 in Fig. 4. tric nozzle, as in Fig. 4, It must hereby be noted that the present invention may be embodied union other methods, designs and accessories, and the reference to the accompanying drawings is made only by way of an illustrative example. Thus whatever change or alteration in the dimensions, the shape or size of the invented automatic nozzle which does not comprise a new inventive step, does not limit the rigts of the present invention, which are analytically specified in the claims below.