# Doll with fragrant scented breath.

## Abstract
A doll including a head 12 and torso 10 in which fragrance means 34 is provided within the torso, and a mechanism is provided to cause air to contact the fragrance material and to be communicated to a mouth opening 42 in the head to simulate a sweet fragrant breath.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A doll including means providing at least a torso and a head, the head having a mouth including an aperture, characterised in that it also comprises fragrance means within the torso whereby air coming lncontactwith the said means will carry the scent of the fragrance, means providing communication between said first means and said aperture, and means for causing air to contact the said fragrance means and to be communicated to said aperture whereby to simulate sweet breath. 2. A doll including means providing at least a torso and a head, the head having a mouth aperture, characterised in that means are provided within the torso embodying a fragrance whereby air coming in contact withthesaid means providing for communication of air between the vicinity of the fragrance and the mouth aperture, means whereby air is caused to contact the said fragrance and to be communicated to said aperture whereby to simulate sweet breath of the doll, the fragrance means including material impregnated with the fragrance, the doll having a neck part in between the torso and the head, the tubular means extending from the torso through the neck part to the mouth aperture. 3. A doll according to Claim 2, the neck part of the doll having a flange and the upper part of the torso having a flange, the flanges being in interfitting relationship. 4. A doll according to any of Claims 1 to 3 wherein the fragrance means is a piece of solid material carrying a fragrance whereby air contacting the said means can carry the scent to the said aperture. 5. A doll according to any of Claims 1 to 3 wherein the fragrance means is in the form of a cream carrying a fragrance which is positioned within the said torso. 6. A doll according to any of Claims 1 to 5 including bellow means positioned within the torso, said fragrance means being within the bellows means, and means whereby the bellows can be actuated to cause air to contact the fragrance means and to be communicated to the said mouth aperture. 7. A doll according to any of Claims 1 to 5 including a bulb member within the torso, the said torso having at least a part which is flexible, said fragrance means being within the bulb member whereby the torso can be compressed to actuate the bulb member to cause air to contact the fragrance means and to be communicated to the mouth aperture. 8. A doll according to any of Claims 1 to 5 wherein the torso has at least a part which is flexible, the said fragrance means being positioned within the said torso, whereby the torso can be compressed to cause air to contact the fragrance means and to be communicated from within the torso to the said mouth aperture. 9. A doll according to any of Claims 1 to 5, the torso being resilient whereby it can be compressed, the fragrance means being positioned within the torso against an interior wall thereof, partition member at the upper part of the torso having an extending nipple, the tubular means including a tube extending between the said nipple and the mouth opening.

## Description
DOLL WITH FRAGRANT SCENTED BREATH This invention relates to figure toys, more particularly dolls and such toys in the form of a doll embodying a mechanism whereby a characteristic of a living creature can be simulated. There are various known U.S. patents in which a figure toy, more particularly a doll has a mechanism in it whereby some characteristic or quality of a living creature can be simulated. Reference is made4 two the following U.S. patents 1,524,802 1,660,085 1,973,567 2,618,892 3,590,515 3,721,039 3,775,901 and 4,224,760. It is an object of the present invention to provide a novel doll which has the capability of simulating a characteristic or quality of a living creature. The prior art is lacking in disclosure of a figure toy or doll having a unique capability of simulating the quality or characteristic present in the herein invention. According to one aspect of the present invention I provide a doll including means providing at least a torso and a head, the head having a mouth including an aperture characterised in that it also comprises fragrance means within the torso whereby air coming in contact with the said means will carry the scent of the fragrance, means providing communication between said first means and said aperture, and means for causing air to contact the said fragrance means and to be communicated to said aperture whereby to simulate sweet breath. According to another aspect of the present invention I provide a doll including means providing at least a torso and a head, the head having a mouth aperture, characterised in that means are provided within the torso embodying a fragrance whereby air coming in contact with the said means providing for communcation of air between the vicinity of the fragrance and the mouth aperture, means whereby air is caused to contact the said fragrance and to be communicated to said aperture whereby to simulate sweet breath of the doll, the fragrance means including material impregnated with the fragrance, the doll having a neck part in between the torso and the head, the tubular means extending from the torso through the neck part to the mouth aperture. The torso of the doll is preferably flexible or pliable.It may be made of resilient material such as plastic or it may be made of fabric material with a filler material giving it shape such as natural or synthetic fibres or sponge like foam material. The fragrance means may comprise a fragrance generator of known type and may be carried within the body of the doll in various ways, whereby it can be contacted by air. The fragrance can be carried by a piece of solid material such as a paper or otherwise. It may be carried in cream which is coated on a surface within the mechanism of the doll. The fragrance may be applied within the mechanism of the doll in other ways. In one form of the invention the fragrance is carried on a piece of solid material within a bellows structure inside the torso of the doll which can be collapsed to force air over the material carrying the fragrance and through conduit means to the mouth opening of the doll, so as to simulate a sweet, fragrant or scented breath. In another form of the invention a collapsible bulb is provided within the torso of the doll having the fragrance carrying material within it. The bulb can be compressed for causing air to contact the fragrance carrying material and expelling it through conduit means through the mouth opening.In a further form of the invention the torso of the doll is compressible and the fragrance may be carried by material simply adhered to an inner wall of the torso. Reference is now made to the drawings Figure 1 is a sectional view of a preferred form of the invention Figure 2 is a sectional view taken along the line 2 2 ofFigure 1 Figure 3 is a sectional view of a modified form of the invention and Figure 4 is a sectional view of another modified form of the invention. Referring to Figure 1 of the drawings this Figure shows a figure toy in the form of a doll having a torso part 10 and head part 12. Both these parts are preferably made of a thin gauge plastic which is resilient or compressible. The head includes a collar or neck part 14 having a bottom flange 16. The torso 10 has a neck part with an inwardly turned flange 20, sosthat the head is attached to the torso by way of the flanges 16 and 20. The front and back of the torso are designated by the numerals 22 and 24. Positioned between these walls is a bellows element 30, which may be made of any suitable collapsible material. The bellows has a central part 32 forming a cavity or chamber in which is a piece of material as designated at 34, which carries a fragrance or a scent which may be of any various known commercial type. The object or material 34, may be just a piece of paper saturated with the fragrance or it may be a piece of cloth, sponge or cotton or otherwise. The chamber 32 has a nipple 38 at the top which connects to a tube or conduit 40. The head 12 has a mouth opening formed by inwardly extending nipple 42. The tube 40 is attached to the nipple 42. In the operation of the embodiment of Figures 1 and 2, the torso may be compressed by applying pressure to the front and back side of the torso so as to compress and release the bellows 30. Air contacts the material or part 34 and picks up the scent or fragrance and the air is expelled through the tube 40 and the nipple 42 and mouth of the doll. Thus, there is simulated a living creature which is a baby or small child having a sweet fragrant breath. The toy has play value, in that the child can physically actuate the compressible torso causing the fragrant air to be expelled, from the mouth opening and to be drawn in again so that the pleasing effect causing the child to become attached to the toy. Figure 3 shows another form of the invention in which the torso 10 contains a soft material such as a spongy material or other soft plastic material as designated at 50.Within the torso is a compressible bulb 52 made of rubber or other similar material having the scented object 34 within it as shown. In this form of the invention the torso 10 can be compressed so as to compress the bulb 52 so as to force air from it, that is, it contacts the object 34 containing the fragrance, and to force it to be expelled through the tube 40 and through the mouth opening,of the doll. Figure 4 shows another form of the invention wherein the material 34 which carries the fragrance is merely carried within the torso of the doll. In Figure 4 the material is shown as being attached to the inside surface of the back wall 24 of the torso. The fragrance could be carried by a cream or other material adhered to the surface of the torso.The sweet breath effect is accomplished by merely compressing the torso itself by exerting pressure on the front and or back walls 22and 24 to cause air to be expelled from it through the tubular means 40 and mouth opening. From the foregoing those skilled in the art will readily understand the nature and construction of the invention and the manner in which the objects as set forth in the foregoing are realized.