# Method of archival data recording and related media.

## Abstract
Embodiments show a recording medium adapted for recording and read out with relatively low power laser means to write digital data bits as reflectance changes for high density computer storage. One preferred medium comprises a disk support having an anti reflective surface on which is laid a gold information layer adapted to absorb recording radiation from laser beam and so write the bits. The anti reflective surface may comprise a high reflectance surface, like an aluminum film, covered with a transparent to beam dielectric spacer like SiO₂. The gold absorber layer exhibits surprisingly high sensitivity, apt for low power recording, and extended archival stability more surprising, it appears to be formed without any evidence of the usual pit formation or other deformation and by relatively slight laser heating, well below the melting point

## Claims
For instance with such records modified to operate in other R W frequencies and or for other related purposes e.g., holographic recording . It will be understood that the preferred embodiments described herein are only exemplary, and that the invention is capable of many modifications and variations in construction arrangement and use without departing from the spirit of the invention. Further modifications of the invention are also possible. For example, the means and methods disclosed herein are also applicable to positioning other transducers and related loads in similar systems and environments. For instance, related embodiments may be employed to position transducers for other forms of recording reproducing systems, such as those in which data is recorded and reproduced optically. And, while the principles of the present invention have been demonstrated with particular regard to the embodiments described, it will be recognized that various modifications are possible. For instance, the records disclosed in these embodiments can also be applied to other recording contexts e.g., in different disk readlwrite environments where data is recorded and reproduced using other radiation beams. Since the mentioned examples of possible variations are merely illustrative, the present invention will be understood as including all possible modifications and variations coming within the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the record material includes gold. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the record means includes anti reflective support means for the record material which is deposited thereon only sufficient to establish initial minimum reflectance 5. The combination as recited in claim 4, wherein the support means comprises a dielectric insulative spacer means on reflector surface means, there combining with the record material in an optical tri layer structure. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the record material comprises a gold alloy. 7. The improved digital data recording method of claim 1, wherein the record means is arranged to include a disk substrate having a reflector surface highly reflective of said recording beam, a dielectric relatively highly thermal insulative spacer thickness overlying the reflector surface and highly transparent to said beams and an information layer of transition material adapted to be reflectance switched by said recording beam, and wherein said beam is arranged to be generated by a low power recording laser which is intensity modulated in accordance with the data signals to be recorded, being focused on the information layer as the record means is moved relative to the beam, the write intensity thereof being adapted only to cause said reflectance switching and not to melt or otherwise deform the transition material, also being of a frequency at which said switching is effected. 8. An information record comprising a disc substrate with recordation means thereon comprising a layer of transition material subject to reflectance switching by non melting radiation recording means, this layer exhibiting a first original reflectance and including tracks of data bits constituting sites therein so switched to a second reflectance state. 9. A method of forming a digital data variable reflectance record of archival quality and suitable for use with optical playback apparatus employing a playback light beam of a given light frequency, comprising the steps of moving through the path of a recording radiation beam, a succession of regions of a record blank surface including an information layer of transition material, while causing the intensity of said recording beam to alternate between a first intensity level of a magnitude causing reflectance switching of said material in a record blank region impinged by said recording beam, and a second intensity level of a magnitude causing no such switching neither level causing any melting or ablation of said material. 10. The combination as recited in claim 9, wherein said information layer is supported on a spacer thickness which is transparent to the beam and is supported on reflector means, whereby the light of said beam is of a light frequency at which said transition material exhibits significant transmissivity and is of a phase so related to said given spacer thickness as to cause said transition surface to exhibit substantially zero reflectance for the light of said beam impinging thereon except where transitions are written. 11. An optical recording method for use with a record blank having a major surface coated with a multiplicity of layers including a layer of transition material, a subjacent spacer thickness overlying a metal layer of high reflectivity, and adapted for detection with prescribed read out means, comprising the steps of focusing a light beam upon the coated surface of said record blank and moving a succession of regions of said transition surface relative to the path of said focused light beam while causing the intensity of said focused light beam to alternate between first and second levels in accordance with information to be recorded whereby to change transition reflectance at bit sites. wherein the light frequency of said focused beam is maintained at a wavelength at which said transition material exhibits significant reflectivity and even greater transmittance, such that, with said spacer thickness, the transition layer will exhibit relatively zero net surface reflectance at said read out means except at the bit sites of such a magnitude that these form a multi layer optical element exhibiting, for light of said frequency directed toward said metal layer via said variations in reflectance thickness in accordance with a characteristic exhibiting a plurality of reflectance minimums at respective thickness values, with the lowest of said thickness values substantially equal to said first intensity level, being only of sufficient magnitude to cause reflectance shift in a record blank region impinged by said focused beam corresponding to bit sites and wherein said second intensity level is of insufficient magnitude to cause such shifts, leaving the original reflectivity unchanged, neither intensity level being sufficient to induce melting of the transition. 12. An information record for use in playback apparatus employing a playback radiation beam of given frequency, this record comprising a combination a substrate having a recording portion with prescribed optical characteristics including prescribed reflectivity at the given frequency and a prescribed information layer overlying this portion of said substrate, this layer being comprised of a prescribed transition material with prescribed absorptivity reflectivity and transmissivity at the given frequency for receiving laser energy corresponding to information to be recorded on the record blank, this layer being adapted and arranged to exhibit a first reflectance except where laser recorded where a second reflectance was exhibited, constituting a bit , there being no pits or like deformations formed at such recording bit sites , this layer having at least one information track formed therein, with each track comprising a succession of such bit sites separated by a prescribed minimum spacing, each bit site comprising a change in reflectivity sufficient to reflect a prescribed minimum contrast read out signal. 13. An information record, written with a radiant energy recording system employing a recording laser providing light of a given frequency, this blank comprising the combination of a substrate having a light reflective surface a first coating, of a thickness equal to an integer multiple of the half wavelength of the laser light output passing therethrough, exhibiting light transparency at said given frequency, said first coating overlying said light reflective surface and a second transmissive coating, said second coating overlying said first coating, and comprising a prescribed n transition material and adapted for information tracks formed therein, these tracks comprising a succession of spaced non deformational transitions formed by said recording light without being heated to melting said second coating exhibiting anti reflectivity at said given frequency in all regions other than those occupied by said transitions wherein the anti reflectivity of said second coating minimizes energy loss due to reflection, the reflectivity of said substrate surface minimizes energy loss into said substrate and the thickness of said first coating causes light reflected by said substrate surface to be in phase with light reflected at the boundary of the second coating and the first coating thereby effecting an enhancement of the sensitivity of the information record. 14. An information record in accordance with claim 13, wherein said substrate is in the form of a disc and wherein said light reflective surface comprises a metal layer deposited on a major surface of said disc.

## Description
METHOD OF ARCHIVAL DATA RECORDING AND RELATED MEDIACROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED PATENT APPLICATIONS This patent application contains subject matter relating to our commonly assigned concurrently filed copending patent applications, Serial Nos. 319,463, 319,464, 319,466, 319,407 and 319,406. The present invention relates to a novel high density archival information storage medium, and more particularly to such a medium adapted for recording with low power laser means.INTRODUCTION, BACKGROUND Optical storage of digital data is a relatively new technology, concerned with the storage and retrieval of digital information using optical techniques, using a special related ODD, optical digital data medium, such as an ODD disk. By analogy such data is conventionally stored on magnetic media like tapes or disks commonly used with high speed digital computers today. This disclosure relates to analogous optical media and associated read write techniques and apparatus which are adapted to record and read back the digital information using a focused beam of prescribed radiation energy, especially with low power laser equipment. As workers well know, success in designing and operating such a system depends greatly on the storage medium. Workers in the art have, for some time now, pondered how to develop a satisfactory ODD disk medium, especially one adapted for low power lasers presently available and most practical. This invention teaches a practical ODD disk for this purpose, one adapted for reasonably long stable archival life e.g., on the order of 10 or more years and use for record storage in high speed computer systems of today. Laser recording media, generally Now, requirements for such ODD media are stringent e.g., involving high bit density and cost effective information storage at satisfactory write read rates especially using low powered lasers. Workers recognize the simplicity and power of such laser implementation, where one need only modulate and deflect a laser beam for read write operations .In related applications e.g., video disk recording workers have used lasers and, for certain aspects thereof, have suggested media using a metal film as an information layer , this layer being softened, melted or vaporized e.g., thermally ablated by a write laser beam sufficient to form a void a pit, hole, bubble, etc., or other deformation in the layer as the bit . Such a film may be coated on the surface of a rotating disk. Many workers have felt that such laser recording is promising for computer records of various kinds e.g., the mentioned ODD media. They have predicted that practical systems await media responsive to low power laser writing and that this in turn depends whether one can find such an information layer material able to be melted or vaporized, etc. at current practical low power levels. This may also depend on the radiation efficiency of the associated system and on the thermal regime surrounding the layer e.g., seeBartolini article cited elsewhere . Thus, workers have looked for such laser recording materials which exhibit high thermal efficiency a measure of how much of the heat generated at the recording site remains sufficiently localized to allow pit formation , and have long sought out recording materials with a low melting point and low thermal diffusivity tellurium, lead, bismuth and indium are examples . And, since workers prefer to use low power lasers for such recording e.g., to enhance the operating life of a laser and minimize its cost and size , it has seemed even more desirable that the metal chosen for such an information absorber film have an outstandingly low melting point adequately high sensitivity so that the desired void may be formed with minimal laser power. Te Absorber films Now, some workers have contemplated using Tellurium Te absorber films for this, or related, laser recording for several reasons. Tellurium has an attractively low melting point about 4500C , conducts heat poorly and appears able to provide good sensitivity and S N ratio also, it is relatively convenient to deposit as a thin film. Bismuth is also commonly suggested for like reasons. And related alloys e.g., as Te Ge, Te As Se and Bi Se have been suggested as of interest. Tellurium has a low write threshold energy when compared with Aluminum, for instance, as well as having a much lower thermal diffusivity e.g., see U.S. 4,222,071 to Bell, et al also see Review of Optical Storage Media by Zech, SPIE Vol. 177, Optical Information Storage, 1979, page 56 et sequ. and also see Optical Recording MediaReview by Bartolini, page 2 et sequ. of SPIE Vol. 123, Optical Storage Materials and Methods , 1977 . For instance, this Bartolini article discusses such absorber films Ablative Thin Films along with ten other optical recording means including Photo polymers , that is organic compounds known to undergo photochemical changes which involve a shift in refractive index. The Zech article discusses absorber films arranged and used so that laser writing forms a hole in the absorbing layer, this information being detected according to difference in reflectivity similarly for Bell patent . For such known deformational recording , it appears that the thermal energy delivered by a high intensity radiation beam Write Beam of a Laser is such that the write site will soften, melt or ablate, in at least part of the beam cross section. It is believed that surface tension then causes a transverse cavitation see article byZech cited above , leading in turn to the formation of a pit or hole, usually slightly elliptical. See MeltingHoles in Metal Films for Real Time, High Density DataStorage by Cochran and Ferrier, SPIE Proceedings, August 1977, pages 17 31 . absorber films As one feature hereof, we have discovered a related kind of laser recording can be done at temperatures wellbelow the melting point of such an absorber . And, as a result we have also discovered that materials like gold, having a relatively high melting point and rather good conductivity characteristics heretofore shunned by workers for the instant purposes can yield a surprisingly good absorber film one comparable in sensitivity to a hitherto preferred absorber like Tellurium. Of course, some have vaguely speculated that high melting point materials like Titanium and Gold also platinum, rhodium, nickel, chromium, manganese and vanadium e.g., cf. U.S. 4,285,056 to Bell might be suitable for such deformation absorber layers. However, such speculations have paid no heed to the practical problem of sensitivity or to how a lower power laser can record on them as mentioned above. Or they have ignored the associated problem of high conductivity where heat is readily conducted away from the recording site it is wasted, further degrading sensitivity note a metal like gold has a high conductivity, whereas Tri and Te do not . More astute observers have acknowledged that such high melting point metals are quite unlikely as absorber candidates e.g., as expressed in cited U.S. 4,222,071 where the low melting point and poor conductivity of Te was heartily endorsed as yielding superior sensitivity and enabling one to record with a low power laser. Thus, metals such as Au which are the REVERSE i.e., good heat conductors and high melting point should, in theory, be the worst absorbers . Yet, the present invention teaches that just such metals as gold can be used and be superior to known absorbers e.g., having a sensitivity somewhat equivalent to Te and much superior archival life. This invention, further, teaches that such absorber films contrary to everything taught in the art evidently need form no holes or be otherwise deformed in the course of recording. Extended archival life A major advantage of optical data storage technology is the increased storage capacity it affords e.g., the order of 100 X that of magnetic tape. An optical data disk as here contemplated will be assumed as non erasable , with information stored permanently thereon for an extended archival life on the order of 10 15 years or more. Such extended life is a goal yet to be reached in the art, though workers would dearly love to do so. The present invention promises media exhibiting this archival life, being especially adapted for optical mass memory and like applications. By contrast, commonly suggested absorber metals likeBismuth and Tellurium are known to slowly oxidize and otherwise degrade much too readily in the typical user environment hence, they are poor candidates for such archival records e.g., see cited article by Ash et al. 1981 andZech article also demonstrated by Example I below . Workers generally realize that Tellurium has particularly poor archival stability i.e., its read out quickly degrades with time. This degradation is accelerated in a high humidity environment and is typically characterized by a rapid increase in overall optical transmission, presumably caused by a general oxidation of the metal, as well as by severe attack on selected bit sites, beginning at defect sites in the metal film. And Bismuth is similar. This archival feature is addressed by this invention which teaches the analogous use of related films of gold, etc. materials which are quite archival and are stable for extended use as computer information storage media, especially as for such optical data disk records for as inTable I computers. Thus, as a feature of novel application, we contemplate the use of such materials for records exhibiting the desired archival life, i.e., being extremely resistant to oxidation or like environmental degradation, during the contemplated use. Thus, no loss of recorded information will occur over extended storage life i.e., reflectivity remains stable enough to read . No practical storage medium or associated system is yet available which can provide extended archival life especially where high sensitivity is also required e.g., the sensitivity of Te or better . The invention teaches just this step forward. The novel recording media taught herein will be generally assumed as meeting the foregoing criteria and, where possible, as also meeting one or more of the Target performance criteria presented in Table I below. See also Optical properties of Tellurium Films Used for Data Recording by Ash and Allen, SPIE, Vol. 222, 1980 . TABLE I Target Media Criteria 1. High Sensitivity allow recording with low power laser means. Sensitivity will be understood as minimum laser power needed for bit formation change in spot reflectivity, akin to that resulting from formation of a hole, or other void or like change in medium, giving adequate read out at contemplated recording rate . With the invention, one may typically write with the order of 5 15 mW laser power for approximately 40 60 n.sec yet not degraded by read out e.g., on repeated playback .1 A. High S N adequate read out Signal to noise ratio for adequate read out on the order of about 30 40 dB or more.2. Archival Stability 10 years life Able to be used or stored in normal computer environment without dropping below min. read out for at least 10 15 years.3. Computer records Assume capability to operate with present day high speed digital computers e.g., with at least the same capabilities as today s magnetic disk storage equipment e.g., bit density of about 106 bits cm 3 or better .4. Deposit able suitable film s can be deposited on commercial scale and give repeatable, controlled characteristics.5. Overcoat ability absorber film e.g., up to a few mils thick can be coated to mechanically protect it and defocus surface dirt without sacrificing above features, e.g., still give adequate read out preferably overcoat can also impede heat and contaminant gases, etc. from absorber film . Thus, it is an object hereof to provide the foregoing, and other related, features and advantages. A more particular object is to do so teaching gold as such absorber information films. Another object is to teach such films exhibiting good sensitivity, even with low power lasers as well as extended archival life. A further object is to teach formation of such records apt for recording without apparent need to generate pits or like voids in the information layer. Another related object is to do so without need to melt or significantly soften the information layer i.e., developing altered reflectivity bits pseudoholes while keeping the layer well below its melting point.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS These and other features and advantages of the present invention will be appreciated by workers as they become better understood by reference to the following detailed description of the present preferred embodiments, these being considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, wherein like reference symbols denote like elements FIG. 1 provides a cross sectional view of an idealized portion of a prior art recording medium FIG. 2 provides a similar view of a novel preferred recording medium embodiment exhibiting a construction in accordance with principles of the present invention FIG. 4 is a similar view of a preferred disk record embodiment and FIG. 3 is a plot of absorber reflectivity vs.gross temperature and FIGS. 5 7 schematically indicate a record embodiment in a preferred application. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION Te Example Tellurium absorber prior art FIG. 1 is a schematic illustration of an idealized cross sectional view of an optical recording medium 1, generally along the lines of what is presently taught in the literature for Tellurium e.g., see Ash article .Medium 1 comprises a support 2 on which is provided an anti reflective substrate AR and, on AR, an information layer absorber 5. Preferably substrate AR comprises a reflector layer 3, on which a transmissive spacer layer 4 is laid. Layers 3 and 4 may be characterized as, respectively, primarily reflective, transmissive at the contemplated readiwrite wavelength. Layers 3, 4, 5 will be understood as providing a multi layer low reflecting anti reflection design over most of the visual spectrum as known in the art see Ash article . Support 2 preferably comprises a polished aluminum disk of the type presently used in digital magnetic recording for computer disk drives, coated with a subbing layer 2 S adapted to render a satisfactorily smooth, flat surface for deposition of reflector layer 3. A radiation laser beam of prescribed energy and wavelength may be understood as applied to medium 1 from a laser source L, so as to establish a hole or like deformation on layer 5 as writing takes place, e.g., at site v shown in phantom. Prior art record I in FIG. 1 will be understood as undertaken and described principally to provide a means of comparison and distinction for the invention embodiments in the following examples. And, except as otherwise specified, all materials, methods and devices and apparatus herein will be understood as implemented by known expedients according to present good practice. Here, the metallic recording film 5 will be understood as deposited on the transparent dielectric spacer 4, with both thicknesses selected to yield a known low reflectivity structure e.g., as in Bartolini article, where less than 3 reflectivity with 5 nm Ti on 80 nm SiO2 spacer recording at 488 nm . Then, where each pit bit is recorded, this anti reflective background will be disrupted such as to yield bits adapted for high contrast read back. And where the recording wavelength is shifted, the spacer thickness is readily altered to give like results. Workers will recognize that in certain cases the reflector film may be eliminated e.g., in favor of a dielectric mirror and that spacer 4 may comprise other materialsistructures e.g., several layers of like material that is also more insulative thermally . Thus the coating parameters here will be understood as selected to preferably provide an anti reflective condition for the so coated disk at the contemplated recording frequency when the write beam is focused on this absorber layer. Regarding such see Anti Reflection Structures for Optical Recording by Bell and Spong,Journal of Quantum Electronics, Vol. QE 14, No. 7, July 1978 and for general prior art, see exemplary articles Optical Disk Systems Emerged , IEEE Spectrum by Bartolini, et al, August 1978, page 20 and Optical Recording MediaReview by Bartolini, SPIE Proceedings, Vol. 123, 1977, Optical Storage Materials and Methods , page 2 . Preferably, deposition proceeds until the reflectance of layer 5 reaches effective zero or another predetermined minimum reflectance level. As workers know, this may be done empirically, or by continually monitoring the flectance of the absorber film as 5 is deposited and see deposition techniques described by Zech in his cited article . Thus, one may vapor deposit an opaque layer 3 of aluminum onto Ic Support 2 all optical characteristics taken relative to contemplated R W laser spectrum of 4000 9000 A . Then, a layer 4 of SiO2 or like transparent dielectric is vapor deposited on layer 5 to a prescribed depth, this depth related to t Os the operating wavelength here, preferably slightly less than either t A0 or 3 4 O Atop layer 4 is vapor deposited the absorber film 5 to a depth which produces the initial minimum near zero reflectance see below . The reflectivity of the record medium 1 will be understood as modified at each bit site v by the radiation beam from write laser L, so that, upon detection with a suitable means, the void areas v i.e., bits may be distinguished as relatively high relfectance spots from the low reflectance non void surrounding them, as known in the art. For instance, U.S. 4,285,056 to Bell describes a like medium where information is recorded as openings in both the absorber and transmissive spacer layers, with the lengths of the openings and of the unexposed intervening areas being varied along a specific information track to convey frequency information. This patent also calls out various materials e.g., among them titanium, rhodium, platinum, gold, nickel, chromium, manganese and vanadium to be deposited using standard evaporation or electron beam evaporation techniques. However, Bell diverges from what is contemplated here in requiring that his spacer layer be heated by the write beam heated sufficient to either be itself ablated away, i.e., to otherwise develop a void within itself or else to be decomposed or sublimed and then out gas sufficient to cause a bubble under a super layer e.g., of gold yet in the present case, essentially no energy is to be absorbed by the analogous spacer layer. Preparation of absorber layer 5 FIG. 1 Absorber layer 5 preferably comprises a relatively thin layer of Tellurium which is vapor deposited onto spacer layer 4 on a relatively flat cl t 1 20 7 record surface thereof , preferably to a depth determined by monitoring this tri layer coating to yield the initial minimum reflectance , typically, one to several hundred A . The Te was so evaporated in a high vacuum chamber using a refractory metal boat for a source 1.2 m box type coating chamber used Zt Ash article . Tellurium is a low melting pointipoor conductivity metal commonly preferred by workers because it is felt to exhibit superior sensitivity, thus minimizing required threshold laser write power. For instance, this is expressed in U.S. 4,222,071 to Bell and Bartolini, where timilar tellurium films were characterized as requiring laser power on the order of 15 mW for writing thereon to achieve 4dequate read out, about 20 optical efficiency being assumed the goal being to permit recovery of recorded video signals with about 45 50 dB S N, or broadcast quality read back . They also specified a solid state Ga AL As injection... laser, apparently applied in a continuous beam one 1 micron in diameter at the record surface, thewhile kept moving past this beam . U.S. 4,222,071 stresses that the absorber must be a low melting point metal like Te as well as being deposited in a continuous film , and not as microscopic agglomerates . Substrate 2 comprises a flat, aluminum plate polished to desirable flatness and coated with subbing 2 S to accommodate deposition of thin reflector layer 3 high reflectivity over at least the working portion of the contemplated radiation spectrum . About 600 900 AO of aluminum vapor deposited has been found satisfactory. The spacer 4 is likewise deposited atop reflector 3.Spacer 4 is a dielectric material which is relatively transparent to the working portion of the laser spectrum and preferably also exhibits good thermal properties e.g., good insulator, low thermal capacitance . About 1100 AO of vapor deposited SiO2 silicon dioxide has been found satisfactory for the subject purposes e.g., writelread at 6330 A . The Tellurium absorber layer 5 will be understood as highly absorptive of the contemplated recording laser spectrum e.g., typically 25 absorptive 30 reflective, with about 45 of the beam energy transmitted for tri layer cancellation, must transmit more than reflect . The thickness of absorptive layer 5 depends on that of spacer 4 and should be minimal, only that sufficient to render the Dark Mirror effect known to workers being deposited on its anti reflectance substrate, only until reflectance is first minimized. Workers would view the Te absorber 5, with its low melting point and a relatively short thermal diffusion length poor conductivity thus helping concerve incident laser energy as a good, high sensitivity material. When a write beam from laser source L falls upon site V of layer 5, a small portion of its energy will be reflected, a small portion absorbed and a large portion transmitted the transmitted portion being reflected back by layer 3 to be principally absorbed in layer 5. Hence both incident and reflected energy will heat film 5, minimizing transmission losses deposition of 5 to yield tri layer . Results For instant purposes, Sensitivity will be understood as characterizing the write energy Ew necessary to change reflectivity or a like read out characteristic sufficient to give the desired minimum read out. The intensity and time exposure of the focusedWrite Beam will be understood as sufficient to so elevate the temperature of absorber layer 5 as to cause the indicated change in reflectivity at v sites giving the desired read out quality, etc. e.g., so that adequate contrast,SIN ratio may be realized, as unnderstood by workers in the art. cf. an exemplary SIN ratio of 40 50 dB peak to peak signal vs. RMS noise for a bandwidth of about 15 MHz. Here, test recording is performed with a gas 1 10 mW He Ne laser beam operating at 6330 AO, with recording exposure from 30 470 n. sec., usually 10 mW, 40 n. sec. or about 400 pJ this intended to yield minimum adequate read out, or about 40 dB S N, when read at lower power e.g., viz 150 500 pJ cm2, pJ 10 12 watt sec.or Joules . with the same or similar laser equipment.Note for this contemplated setup, assume laser focused bit site N 8 1 micron diameter, need for write pulse about 40 n. sec. long 60 n. sec. from rise to fall this also accommodating disk rpm 1800 and galvo mirror focus characteristics . The subject record 1 is so recorded upon. It is found relating to comparable situations in the literature, etc. that relatively low power laser pulses can melt theTe film sufficient to yield the well known craters or holes and give good read out e.g., bit reflectance of vs. vs. background of 1 3 at 6330 however with quite a bit of noise too. Such bit holes will be seen to be actual voids e.g., see photos in Ash article where 2 10 mW, 100 n. sec.laser pulse recorded such holes in like Te films there, it was assumed that a 250 film of Te used in the reflective mode produced 57 reflectance, 6 transmittance, 37 absorptance at 4500 A . However, despite the fact that such Te films are deposited as a continuous layer, the formation of the bit holes v is described in the literature as accompanied by a surrounding rim and it is thought that this rim is responsible for much of the mentioned noise . Evidently one needs a certain MIN. Write Energy Ew within a certain minimum rise time e.g., with this laser, etc. about 10 mW within 40 n. sec. to render adequate holes e.g., higher power delivered too slowly can allow heat at absorber to leak away thus no bit is written . Such holes or pits are indicated by the hole at v in FIG. 1. At least some of the absorber material 5 is then evidently softened and displaced at that bit site, sufficient to reduce its thickness there and so give increased reflectivity at least that is what the art conventionally teaches, e.g., see Ash article and citedU.S. 4,222,071 . Such a spot may be read out with means known in the art, e.g., with a similar laser at low power e.g., above described laser at 3 mW , the increase in reflected energy received at a suitable photo detector is observed to yield on output signal representing the recorded bits, these being readily distinguishable from background this read energy being insufficient to erase or disturb the so recorded bits, of course. Note read out at a frequency fR, , where pit depth introduces a phase change vs. light reflected at surface of Te such as to maximize contrast therewith . Archival stability We found that the archival stability of this Te record was extremely poor, as the literature has noted e.g., see Ash article re oxidation, etc. . For instance, under known temperature humidity cycling, record 1 will be found using no overcoat on layer 5 to lose 50 of its reflectivity in about 50 weeks, evidently mostly via oxidation, etc. The Te film of Example I will be found characterized by a rapid increase in overall optical transmission after such aging . This is presumably caused by a g eneral oxidation of the metal as well as severe selected site attack beginning at defect sites in the metal film. cf. analogous test per MIL SPEC 810 B . This is grossly inadequate for the mentioned archival memory requirements at least 10 15 years exposure to normal computer operatinglstorage conditions see Table I . EMBODIMENT EXAMPLES The following Examples are given by way of teaching some exemplary uses and advantages of low temperature absorbers according to the invention. Advantages and features thereof will be better appreciated by comparing them with the Te Example described above. Example I Au absorber FIG. 2 The operations, materials, methods and structure of the Te Example FIG. 1 described above are essentially duplicated here, in a gold record 10, except as otherwise specified. Record 10 will be understood as comprising a substrate support 12 on which an anti reflective substrate 1 AR is laid preferably comprising a reflector layer 13, with a transmissive spacer layer 14 laid upon 13 with an absorber film 15 placed atop substrate 1 AR spacer 14 thereof . Here, absorber 15 comprises a film of gold deposited like the Te film in the Te Example , to a similar depth by essentially similar means. The underlying spacer layer 14, reflector layer 14 and substrate 12 are at least functionally otherwise the same as in Te Example and will be understood as also functioning as a tri layer . That is, this gold absorber film 15 is preferably formed as in Te Example by vapor depositing gold on the surface of SiO2 spacer 4 until the well known tri layer is rendered i.e., until surface reflectivity of 5 first goes to zero or near zero . Results The results are most surprising, especially in light of expected properties and as compared with conventional media like the Te absorber described in Te Example .That is, record 10 was recorded upon, read out and evaluated, with its sensitivity, etc., measured, as in the Te Example i.e., using an He Ne laser system of the type mentioned. The so written bit sites exhibited a like increase in reflectance and higher output signal as with Te. As detailed below, one finds this yields a record with fine archival stability, unexpectedly high sensitivity, high SIN and surprisingly low write energy, and low write temperature plus overcoat tolerance yet one observes only reflectance transitions with no pits or like deformation of the absorber. Archival stability resistance to environmental degradation was found to be far superior to that of theTellurium record in the Te Example and to that of any known tellurium pit records for instance measurements of change in optical reflectivity after aging under a cycled elevated temperaturelhigh humidity environment indicate that this alloy is considerably more stable then closely similar Tellurium films. And workers are well aware that gold is equal to such archival conditions as required here. It is projected that such gold records can maintain adequate read out 30 dB for the order of ten 10 years or more of the contemplated storage and use. Unexpected high sensitivity We found to our great surprise that such a thin gold alloy absorber can be approximately as sensitive as a Tellurium absorber e.g., about F that of Te Example is common e.g., that information can be recorded in the 5 15 mW, 10 100 n. sec. power range or 100 1000 p.J. specifically about 5 mW for as little as 40 n. sec. is seen to switch reflectivity some samples even switch in about 10 15 n. sec. at 1 2 mW others in less time at 10 mW all yielding satisfactory read out e.g., 30 40 dBS N, etc. .This is really astonishing it is many times the value our theory predicted and is really contra to what the literature conventionally teaches That is, compared with kncsn accepted good absorbers like Te, gold has such a relatively high melting point about ll00 l2000C vs. about 4500C for Te and such superior heat conductivity that of Te is notoriously poor , that one would have to expect a gold absorber to exhibit sensitivity far inferior to that of Tellurium.For instance, the literature extols Te as having sensitivity which is vastly superior to Titanium, and Titanium has a high melting point like gold but is as poor a heat conductor asTe thus how can gold be a better absorber than Titanium One reason see below may involve the very different mechanism for such bit formation , i.e., whereby, unlikeTe, etc., no deformation e.g., pit, bubble, etc.formation is involved here but rather something else serving to change reflectivity when subjected to such a write beam, and evidently requiring considerably less write energy. Low temperature recording A major surprise is that the indicated reflectance transition occurs at such low write power levels and evidently at such low temperatures see below, Examples show that this occurs well below golds melting point .Thus surprisingly high sensitivity, in turn, allows one to turn to high melt material like gold which has superior archival properties, alleviating risk of corrosion, degradation over extended life. Writing transitions without deformation of absorbers An even greater surprise ensued when the so written record with low power, low TO was examined for the usual pits holes or like deformation as with Te films .After careful investigation e.g., with scanning electron microscope , no evidence of pits could be found and results were found that were unexplainable by pit formation This was bizarre and most unexpected all known absorber films of this type, when so written upon i.e., suitable laser energy, sufficient to yield significant read out reflectance differences, as here , have definitely exhibited pits i.e., displacement of absorber material at bit site as workers well know. Example I is a case in point. This is so unorthodox that many of our co workers refused to believe it for sometime. But to date, having found no convincing evidence of pits a negative fact to be sure subject to possible explanation later , we must believe that there were none. It is possible, of course, indeed likely that greatly increased write power will generate such a hole or pit. And, one cannot be sure that present deforming materials like me will not reset similarly under the right conditions. Our best theory as yet not fully worked out is that, without forming any such pits , this thin pure gold absorber film is so deposited e.g., on tri layer as to be capable of being radically changed somehow by the usual write beam so as to exhibit a significant difference in reflectance vs. background , almost exactly as other known absorbers like Te have done in the course of forming pits . We characterize this as reflectance transition for lack of a better term. We are not yet sure of the causal mechanism e.g., whether it results from some solely internal change in phase, or in crystallinity, in density, etc. perhaps akin to the photo polymers in Bartolini article cited above , or whether one or several interior micro sites are so formed. This strange absence of deformations and apparent lack of melting, coupled with the unexpectedly low write energy Ew , leads us to infer that the so written reflectance transitions occur because of internal, relatively microscopic changes in the gold film as opposed to the conventional macroscopic changes like pit forming and one can infer that the latter reasonably should require more write energy . We theorize that such transitions are peculiar to ultra thin films of this type on the order of 100 to several hundred AO 50 . One could further surmize that such films exhibit special properties unrelated to those of the bulk metal properties attributable in part at least perhaps to the relative prominence of metal substrate bonds e.g., Au SiO2 bonds vs. Au Au bonds .And we expect that for thicker films more like bulk metal more writeenergy would be required if indeed such transitions are possible e.g., Au Au bonds predominate and are stronger . Now this new type of phase transition , or rearrangement of absorber structure under mild heating, may result at least in some cases when the absorber is deposited as an ultra thin semi continuous film which the heat of the write beam can coagulate into colloid more discontinuous form. Such a result might be analogized to the ruby glass phenomena known in the glass industry see Coloured Glasses by W.A. Weyl published 1951 Reprinted by Dawsons of Pall Mall,London 1959 .This could, in effect, optically eliminate absorber 15 of the tri layer, eliminating the associated phasecancellation and letting reflectance from reflector 13 only, take over e.g., colloid islands with diameter of a few AO vs. beam 1000 X wider . In any event, workers will certainly welcome the availability of such novel gold absorbers, not only because of their evident ease of manufacture deposition, handling by well known methods and properties, and their evident superior archival stability and aptness for use in computer disk records e.g., per Table I , but also because writing such transitions implies special unique advantages e.g., dispensing with need to melt absorber, or to roll aside absorber mass to form a pit , absence of typical pit rim giving rise to read out noise , and associated unconcern with constrictive effects of over coatings e.g., a protective film covering the ordinary pit formingTe absorber will be expected to squeeze the pit site sufficient to retard pit formation also, the associated reduction in write energy and record temperature all these promising the ability to laser write with much less energy and to write smaller bits Workers will welcome a system whereby bits may be recorded without the intense heat and macroscopic changes inherent in the well known pit formation. Overcoating effects The Te Example was also run with a thin overcoating of SiO 100 AO, vapor deposited on the Te film. This was not really a true, functional overcoat of the kind workers have suggested e.g., several mils thick, to permit record handling, without scratching to defocus surface dust, grime, etc. to impede vapor entry, e.g., water, oxygen to further conserve writing heat, etc. but did effect pit formation , raising required write energy to about double Possibly because it so squeemçd Te film at pit site as to impede associated displacement of Te material there .And workers are aware that such deformation media as with pits in Te, bubbles in other metals, etc. cannot tolerate such an overcoat e.g., read out signal destroyed sensitivity raised . Significantly, when an Au film as in Example I was similarly over coated, no such effect was seen e.g., sAme write energy to generate pseudo pits . As workers will see this reinforces the theory that the instant transition mechanism is quite novel movement of tt4 metal to form pit , etc. and amplifies the attractiveness of such absorbers tolerance to overcoating is very, very important . Evidently the involved reflectance transition is more tolerant of the usual overcoat. For instance, coating such a pure gold tri layer with several mils of transparent Teflon doesn t radically disturb its record properties e.g., sensitivity, read out drop only a bit vs. with Te, cannot record at all, at this power level . This compatibility of gold absorbers with such elastomeric insulative overcoatings is a very welcome feature.To our knowledge, this is the first such absorber that accepts such overcoatings while maintaining good record properties sensitivity, SIN, archival, etc. As another feature hereof, and based on the foregoing and other Examples, one would infer that such an ultra thin absorber film of gold is probably not behaving as predicted from reported Bulk Gold properties e.g., thermal conductivity e. g., radial conductivity cannot be significant . The discovery of such thin film properties is significant and is further mentioned below. By way of showing that these transition bits reflectivity switching occur well below the melting temperature of gold and involve no pits or other deformation, Examples II V follow. Example II Gross heating The record of Example I is essentially replicated with pure gold deposited on the same tri layer to same depth as Example I. However, rather than subjecting it to a laser write beam, the record is simply heated, rather crudely, at several spots with a common soldering iron. The spots are heated to a transition temperature range, considerably below the melting point or the softening point where a radical change in color is observed extreme change in gross eyeball reflectance occurs rather suddenly . That is, we slightly heated spots on this pure gold absorber sample, with the solder iron heated to about 5500C estimate is maximum TO of iron, and is well below gold s melt point of ll0O 12000C and we found to our surprise that the eyeball appearance of each so heated spot changed very radically from a relatively low reflectivity dark blues to a high reflectivity white pale violet . Again, examination failed to find any evidence of pits . Example III as II, but Au Pb Example II is repeated, however with a gold lead alloy replacing the pure Au. The results are essentially the same except that they occurred a bit faster at lowerTO as sample warmed up . This strongly suggests that various gold alloys can be made to yield these inventive results high sensitivity write with very low power and well below melt point, etc. . Another like sample Au Pb is made and is written, then read out as in Example I. Results were much the same as Ex. I pure Au except that sensitivity was a bit higher higher than in Te Ex. too . Example III A I but Au Sn Ex. I is replicated, however substituting an Au Sn alloy for the pure gold absorber film. Results were quite similar to Ex. II, with a minor drop in sensitivity. The alloys in Ex. III and Ex. III A are, really separate Au, Pb or Sn layers vapor deposited as in Ex. I individually and sequentially e.g., Au, then Pb, thenAu, then Pb, then Au to a total depth giving initial zero reflectance as in Ex. I . Thus, they are better characterized as laminate mixtures t. Example IV Au, on glass only torch heating Example I is repeated except that, instead of a tri layer substrate, only a glass sheet is used. The same deposition is carried out, with the Au film vapordeposited to the same tri layer depth e.g., in common chamber with a second tri layer sample, keeping deposition time the same for both samples, while monitoring tri layer reflectance as in Ex. I . Results were closely similar color change at estimated 4500 C, with radical change in reflectivity occurring however heating was with a blow torch . The temperatures in Examples II, III and IV were estimated, not precisely tracked. This was remedied in the Example V below. Example V as I, oven heating, TO monitored Example I is replicated pure Au on tri layer .However, the sample is heated in an oven not laser written and its temperature carefully monitored with thermocouple along with its reflectance 5 mW He Ne laser at 6330 AO and associated detector and read out means . FIG. 3 is a resultant plot of ovenlrecord temperature vs. reflectivity reflectance scale arbitrarily chozen num 0.5 corresponds to 5 refl. num 20 to u 90 reflectance . This plot confirms that such mild heating , kept well below gold melt TO, will, of itself, induce a radical change in reflectance cf gradual change from about 200 4000C then sharply from 400 5500C here, entire sample surface is heated no melting observed . Workers will agree that the gross macroscopic color transitions observed in Ex.s II V above, under such mild non melting heating certainly confirms that such reflectance transitions in a gold film have nothing to do with forming pits or any other deformation. This is exciting on several counts X e.g., promising lower0 writing low E , elimination of read out w noise associated with the ridges that usually form around such pits , higher bit density, ability to sowrite on noble and like archival metals with a relatively high melting point. Example VI as I, but elastomer substrate Example I is replicated except that a glass slide is substituted for disk 12 and a transparent Teflon coating is substituted for SiO2 spacer 14. The same kind of vapor deposition is undertaken, e.g., Al film 13 on glass slide until monitored reflectance is maximized, then Teflon to spacer thickness as before, then pure Au deposited until first minimum reflectance of companion tri layer sample . Results Results are similar to those of Ex. I only better, for instance, exhibiting about 4 X sensitivity.And adequate transitions for read out can be written with the same He Ne laser at power as low as about 1 1.5 mW 40 n. sec. threshold level . As before, no evidence of pits etc., is seen e.g., with scanning electron microscope . Also, adhesion of the gold was also superior vs. SiO2 . Evidently the elastomeric spacer, Teflon greatly improves writing efficiency, keeping write beam heat localized at the bit site . Example VII as VI, elastomeric overcoat Ex. VI is replicated except that an overcoat of 2000 AO transparent Teflon is applied on the gold absorber film. Results Results are almost as good as in Ex. VI with some drop in sensitivity. It is even possible to write transitions at laser power as low as 0.1 mW if a 30 sec. exposure approximately can be tolerated. This result would be very unexpected if the bits were written according to prior art mechanisms e.g., forming pits . That is, conventionally, one expects such an overcoat to radically degrade sensitivity require more write energy . For instance, as mentioned above, an overcoat on a Te film as in Te Ex. prevents writing entirely with reasonable power levels, like the described 10 mW . Workers have surmised that the apparent spot increase in needed write energy for pit forming stems from the overcoat squeezing down on the absorber, resisting translation of its mass as a pit begins to form. Thus, the instant results are not only surprising and advantageous but tend to confirm that the involved novel transition mechanism and related transitional absorber material like Au is quite unrelated to forming pits or other deformation. And workers will welcome such novel ODD records and associated systems where overcoating appears so feasible. The foregoing will confirm that mild heating to well below melt TO of such a bit site in such gold films produces definite reflectance changes transitions without any pit formation. This susceptibility of such thin absorber films of gold for recording bits adequate change in reflectance, etc. by such mild heating well below the melt point, holds great promise for improved recording systems. As workers will attest, any improvement that can significantly reduce write energy requirements should, of itself, offer tremendous potential. For instance, the present state of the art is such that a mere 25 50 reduction in required write laser power could render systems cheap, reliable and practical, that are presently questionable thus our invention could make a commercial system out of what is now a mere laboratory curiosity. Workers will appreciate that one will also expect to be able to so use gold, and its compatible alloys, in other related circumstances e.g., gold deposit on another kind of substrate where such mild heating at bit sites yields useful variance in reflectivity . In such cases, one will expect to formulate the gold or an alloy thereof to meet the operational requirements e.g., as in Table I, sufficient gold, etc. in alloy to yield adequate archivalability, sensitivity, etc. .Then, by whatever means one will expect to experimentally or in theory determine the write energy Ew needed to achieve such reflectance switching and relate this to the recording context i.e., to laser power and exposure time at A o, to thermal environment of absorber film, accounting for full system in respect of optics, reflectance, heat losses to adjacent layers, etc. and test heating of the contemplated record as in the above Examples can be undertaken to derive or confirm this. And workers will also appreciate that other materials should be contemplated for like application.Thus, similarly one will expect to be able to select another such transitional absorber e.g., like Ag, Cu, or their alloys , properly formulate it, determine the related write energy Ee to yield to expected reflectance switching and relate this to the involved recording context perhaps test heating a given absorber film thereof on its intended substrate in a temperature monitored oven, to determine, or confirm, what is the necessary film thickness, substrate character, laser energy, etc. And test writing and read out of the associated record will, of course, give further indication of operating characteristics and conditions. Example VII preferred R W ODD disk FIG. 4 Fig. 4 depicts, in fragmentary idealized section, an improved ODD disk record R apt for use in low power R W laser systems, e.g., of the type shown in FIGS. 5 7 and described below. Record R comprises a substrate disk 112 on which is disposed a gold tri layer 101 including a gold absorber film 115 atop an anti reflective optical substrate comprised of dielectric spacer 114 on reflective layer 113. Those elements and the associated materials, operations, etc. may be understood as essentially the same as in Ex. I except as otherwise stated. Record R is capped with an overcoat 100 oc upon absorber 115.Further details are as follows. Substrate disk 112 is preferably a well knownWinchester disk of the type presently used for magnetic recording records in computer systems aluminum, 14 dia., usual polished surface . Preferably it is coated, at 112 S with a subbing layer adapted, as known in the art, to provide a smooth surface for deposition of reflector layer 113. Alternatively, the disk itself may be made as a tuned to y 0 dielectric mirror. As mentioned, reflector 113 AL film as before and spacer 114 preferably provide an anti reflective base on which absorber film 115 is applied to complete the well known tri layer . Spacer 114 is preferably comprised of transparent Teflon or like organic of tri layer thickness . Alternatively, SiO2 or like glass may replace some of the organic, e.g., center portionX leaving organic Teflon above for good adhesion to gold, and as thermal barrier preventing reflector 113 from draining any appreciable energy from absorber 115 stable under such heating . Absorber layer 115 comprises pure gold vapor deposited on the anti reflective substrate 114, 113, etc. as before to yield first min. reflectance depth , etc. . Overcoat 100 oc is next applied on absorber 115 to function, as known in the art, as a scratch resistant cap , a barrier to intrusion of contaminants e.g., water, oxygen vapors and to defocus dirt and grime thereon.That is, one may optically eliminate or at least reduce the effects of surface dust, etc. on 100 oc by simply making it thick enough, albeit transparent to X or to throw it out of focus when illuminating absorber 115 e.g., here a few mils thick . Now, any dust particles settling on the overcoat surface are displaced far enough from the focal plane of the optical system as to have no appreciable effect on read write operations. Overcoat 100 oc may comprise a suitably transparent glass. However, in certain cases, a barrier coating e.g., 100 AO SiO and or several hundred AO Teflon is first coated upon absorber 115. In certain instance, where flexibility is critical, the glass may be replaced by a flexible organic e.g., RTV silastic of General ElectricCo. and in such a case a wear cap will often be advisable e.g., acrylic layer on RTV or as in U.S. 4,101,907 . Now, workers will recognize that one will use such a record by rotating it e.g, 1800 rpm preferably here while using the Write Beam to write a selectable number of information tracks, each track comprising a succession of spaced bit sites Transitions written there, as reflectivity changes , separated by unwritten areas in which the reflectivity of the absorptive layer 115 is undisturbed. For read out, a laser beam of relatively constant intensity and prescribed wavelength is likewise focused on the information track comprising these bits at the absorber layer as the disk is rotated. Thus a bit can represent a one where the write beam has switched reflectivity along this track otherwise a zero may be understood. The read laser will apply energy insufficient to so change spot reflectivity, and at a frequency at which the undisturbed regions of the track exhibit an antireflective condition, preferably. A photo detector is positioned to receive light reflected from the passing bit sites being used, as known to develop as output signal representing the so recorded bits . The reflectance changes need not be maximal, just sufficient to give the needed minimal read out contrast e.g., SIN ratio that can be tolerated in the contemplated playback mode . Workers will appreciate how this teaches that one may use a thin film of gold as the absorber information means in a low radiation record adapted for high density digital data recording for data processing using low power recording means, like a 10 mW laser, to write bits transitions detected via reflectivity change.Evidently, other related absorber structures, related materials and related read write systems will be applicable in certain instances. Below is an example of a preferredR W system apt for using such a record. Associated low power RIW system, FIGS. 5,6,7 An example and preferred mode of using such a recording medium will now be briefly described with reference to a preferred related optical recording reproducing system 200 in FIG. 5. FIG. 5 generally illustrates a system 200 wherein data to be recorded is first applied to recording circuitry 210 which encodes the applied data using, for example, a conventional encoding format of the type employed for magnetic recording, such as non return to zero, return tozero, etc. Conventional error checking may also be provided for the encoded signal. The encoded data 210a from the recording circuitry 210 is applied to a laser optical system 212. The laser optical system 212 generates three laser beams 212a, 212b, and 212c which are focused at spaced locations along the center line of the same selected track of a preformatted optical disk 215 supported on a precision spindle 216 for rotation by a motor 218. Optical disk 215 may, for example, be a tri layer disk of the type disclosed in the aforementioned Example VII. Laser beam 212a is a writing beam which is modulated by the encoded data so as to form optically detectable changes in a selected track of the optical disk 215 representative of the encoded data. It is to be understood that the optically detectable changes e.g., bits produced in the disk by the write laser beam 212a need involve no physical deformation such as pits or holes. The only requirement is that optically detectable changes be produced in selected areas of the disk in response to the write laser beam 212a which are representative of the encoded data 21ova. For the purpose of this description, all of the possible types of optically detectable changes that can be produced will hereinafter be referred to as transitions . Laser beams 212b and 212c shown in FIG. 5 are reading beams. As typically illustrated in FIG. 6, the reading beam 212b is a read after write beam which is accordingly focused behind the writing beam 212a on the center line 217a of a selected track 217 while beam 212b is a read before write beam and is accordingly focused ahead of he writing beam 212a. The intensity of the read beams 212b and 212c are chosen so that they will not disturb the integrity of previously recorded information. The read beams are reflected from the disk 215 back to the optical system 212 which, in response thereto, derives a plurality of detection signals 214a, 214b and 214c which are applied to signal processing electronics 220.The signal processing electronics 220 also receives the encoded data signal 210a from the recording circuitry 210 for use in checking the accuracy of recorded data, The signal processing electronics 220 uses the detected signals 214a, 214b and 214c to provide an output data signal 220a corresponding to data read from the optical disk 215, along with signals 220b and 220c respectively identifying the track and sector locations on the disk from which the data is read. The signal processing electronics 220 also produces control signals 210b, 221a 221b, 221d, 221e and 221f. More specifically, control signal 210b is applied to the recording circuitry 210 for synchronizing the encoding of data with disk rotation control signal 221a is applied to the optical disk motor 218 to provide accurate speed control during recording and reading control signal 221b is applied to the laser optical system 212 for controlling the radial position of the laser beams 212a, 212b and 212c for the purpose of selecting a desired track control signal 221c is applied to the laser optical system 212 for providing precise track following of the laser beams on the selected track control signal 212d is applied to the laser optical system 212 for providing precise focusing of the laser beams 212a, 212b and 212c and control signal 221e is applied to the recording circuitry 210 for interrupting recording if the reflected read before write beam indicates the possibility of an overwrite recording error because the track ahead contains previously recorded data and signal 221g is applied to the recording circuitry 210 to interrupt recording if a recording error occurs. Next to be considered is the manner in which preformatting is provided for the optical disk 215 in FIG. 5 in accordance with the invention. An example of a typical formatting arrangement is illustrated in FIG. 7. As generally indicated in FIG. 7, the optical disk 215 in the preferred embodiment being described contains a large plurality of circumferential tracks 317. The disk 215 is also divided into a plurality of sectors 319.As indicated in FIG. 7, each track 317 within a sector 319 comprises a header 351 and a data recording portion 320. The data recording portion 320 is the portion into which data is written during recording and comprises the greater portion of the track length within each sector 319. The header 351 of a track 317 is encountered first in each sector 319 and is provided on the disk prior to recording. The provision of such headers 351 on a disk prior to data recording is typically referred to as formatting the disk, and the resulting disk is considered to be preformatted . Other details of system 200 will be understood by workers in the art representing present good practice e.g., with regard to particulars of subsystems, devices, components, materials and related manufacture and operation .Examples of various known methods and approaches may be seen in the following references Patent No. Inventor s 4,216,501 Bell 4,232,337 Winslow, et al 4,243,848 Utsumi 4,243,850 Edwards 4,253,019 Opheij 4,253,734 Komurasaki 4,268,745 Okano and in R.A. Bartolini, et al., Optical Disk Systems Emerge , IEEESpectrum, August 1978, pp 20 28G.C. Kenney, et al., An Optical Disk Replaces 25 Mag Tapes ,IEEE Spectrum, February 1979, pp. 33 38.K. Bulthuis, et al., Ten Billion Bits on a Disk , IEEESpectrum, August 1979, pp. 26 33.A.E. Bell, et al., Antireflection Structures for OpticalRecording , IEEE Journal of Quantum Electronics, Vol. QE 14No. 7, July 1978, pp. 487 495. The subject matter of these references is to be considered as incorporated herein, as is that of all other referer Conclusion Workers will appreciate how aptly such transition forming records and related R W systems are to provide novel, improved records for computer applications and the like. In particular it will be appreciated that such records can be used to improve the efficiency, power usage and the cost effectiveness of an ODD disk drive as mentioned something workers in the art will applaud.Workers will also appreciate that such records and R W systems for other like applications in related environments. What is claimed is 1. An improved method of recording digital data for archival computer records, the method comprising providing disk record means by depositing an information layer of archival record material on a disc substrate, this material selected as adapted for recording of bits thereon by a prescribed radiation beam of prescribed wavelength serving to significantly alter layer reflectance, yet without melting the material, such that those bits may readily be read out by related radiational playback means and yield adequate signal contrast providing recording means including a radiation source means adapted to present such a recording beam to so write the bits as such reflectance changes , and operating this beam so its intensity is kept well below the level at which said material would melt and translating said record means relative to said recording beam along prescribed recording paths while modulating the intensity thereof and causing the intensity of the beam to rise to recording level in accordance with information to be recorded.2. The method of claim 1, wherein the source means comprises a low power laser, the record means is so arranged and adapted to accommodate such read out with the same or a related laser, at reduced intensity and wherein said material is comprised of a noble metal.