# GYROSCOPIC APPARATUS

## Claims
Kreiselkompass zur Richtungs und Nordenbestimmung, bestehend aus einem Gehäuse 34 einer zur azimutalen Drehung im Gehäuse 34 drehbar gelagerten Kardanringanordnung 20 einem zentralen Kreisel 10 , der in der Kardanringanordnung 20 drehbar gelagert ist, wobei der zentrale Kreisel 10 einen einzigen Drehfreiheitsgrad quer zu seiner Drallachse 16 hat einer Vorrichtung zur Drehung des zentralen Kreisels, um die Drallachse 16 um den Freiheitsgrad zwischen einer vertikalen Achse 12 und einer horizontalen Achse 18 zu verschieben einer Transducer Einrichtung 28 zur Ermittlung einer Bewegung um den einzigen Freiheitsgrad und zur Erzeugung eines die Bewegung signalisierenden Ablenksignals eine Drehmomenteinrichtung 26 , die mit der Transducer Einrichtung 28 verbunden ist und auf deren Ablenksignal anspricht, um den Kreiselkompass mit einem Drehmoment zu beaufschlagen eine azimutale Antriebseinrichtung 38 zur Drehung der Kardanringanordnung 20 dadurch gekennzeichnet, dass die Drehmomenteinrichtung 26 im zentralen Kreisel 10 enthalten ist, der bestrebt ist, die Bewegung um den einzigen Freiheitsgrad zu beeinflussen, wenn der einzige Freiheitsgrad längs der vertikalen Achse 12 orientiert ist wobei die azimutale Antriebseinrichtung 38 mit der Transducer Einrichtung 28 verbunden ist, und gekoppelt ist, um die Kardanringanordnung 20 in Abhängigkeit vom Ablenksignal zu drehen, wenn der einzige Freiheitsgrad längs der Vertikalachse 12 und der Horizontalachse 18 orientiert ist und einer Steuereinrichtung 58, 86 , die zwischen die Transducer Einrichtung 28 und die azimutale Antriebseinrichtung 38 geschaltet ist, um letztere in Abhängigkeit von dem Ablenksignal zu steuern, wobei die Steuereinrichtung 58, 86 betätigbar ist, wenn der Freiheitsgrad entlang der horizontalen Achse orientiert ist, um die azimutale Antriebseinrichtung 38 in einer Richtung anzutreiben, damit eine Kreiselbewegung um den Freiheitsgrad erzeugt wird, die bestrebt ist, die Drallachse 16 in einer bestimmten Orientierung zu halten.

## Description
The present invention relates to gyrocompasses and, in particular, to methods for accurately determining north and direction. It is known to use a gyroscope to determine north by sensing the rotation of the earth. A gyroscope having a horizontal spin axis responds to the horizontal component of the angular rate of rotation of the earth by producing a torque on the gyroscope tending to align its spin axis with that of the earth. It is also known to use a gyroscope having a single degree of freedom so that only the horizontal component of the earth s rotation is influential. This degree of freedom is about a vertical axis. Since the torque produced by the rotation of the earth, is rather small, known gyrocompasses employ an air bearing to substantially eliminate resisting torques. It is also known to rotate the input axis of a dual function gyroscope 90 and thereby shift its degree of freedom from a horizontal to a vertical axis, for example, US A 3254419. This 90 rotation shifts the operation from directional to north seeking. A gyroscope of the latter type, however, does not employ a torquer to affect motion about the single degree of freedom of the gyroscope. Also in gyrocompases of this type, the large amounts of azimuthal rotation required to swing the gyroscope towards north is accomplished by a servo which supports a pitch and roll gimbal. Consequently, the azimuthal motor is required to carry two additional gimbals mechanisms as well as the central gyroscope. A similar, known gyroscope US A 3394596 is so mounted within an azimuthally rotatable gimbal that the degree of rotational freedom of the gyroscope can also be shifted from a horizontal to a vertical axis. Again this type of dual function gyroscope does not employ a torquer to restrain motion about the single degree of freedom of the gyroscope. Accordingly, this gyroscope does not measure the horizontal component of the rate of angular rotation of the earth transverse to the spin axis of the gyroscope north seeking mode . Consequently, this type of gyroscope is unable to estimate the extent to which its spin axis is misaligned with respect to north. Also, this known gyroscopic device employs a follow up means which operates only in the north seeking mode. The follow up is mechanically disengaged when the gyro is swung into its directional position. Such mechanical disengagement complicates the gyroscope and tends to unbalance the central gyro by necessitating the motor or a pinion nonconcentrically mounted within the device. FR A 2396956 discloses a north seeking and course holding gyroscope with a three frame mounting having an additional frame between the second end outer frames, forming a cardan suspension for the rate gyroscope together with the second frame in the north seeking mode. The second end intermediate frames ere arranged to provide vertical suspension of the inner frame in the north seeking mode, and there is a control device to keep the second frame horizontal when in the course holding mode. DE A 1548467 discloses a directional gyroscope with cardan suspension in a 2 plane frame system with the spin axis horizontal. Torque pick ups from the frame axes provide signals which are processed to provide north seeking and course holding facilities. A further north seeking gyroscope is disclosed in Archiv für Elektrotechnik Vol. 54 1971 pages 102 107. This comprises a rate gyro with two degrees of freedom having both a precession axis and a spin axis. A gyroscopic device is disclosed in DE C 1265998 comprising a central gyro having an elastic suspension between the intermediate frame and the inner frame of the device. The torque means acts between the central gyro and the gimbal means. Accordingly, there is a need for a gyroscopic system which can accurately determine north and avoids the errors of the systems of the prior art There is also a need for a gyrocompass that can shifted to operate in a directional mode. According to the invention there is provided apparatus operable gyroscopically to determine direction and to determine north, comprising a case gimbal means rotatably mounted in said case for rotating azimuthally a central gyro rotatably mounted in said gimbal means, having a single degree of rotational freedom transverse to its spin axis means for rotating said central gyro about said spin axis to shift said degree of freedom between a vertical and horizontal axis transducer means for sensing motion about said single degree of freedom, and for providing a deflection signal signifying said motion torque means connected to said transducer means and responsive to its deflection signal for applying torque to the apparatus and azimuthal drive means for rotating said gimbal means characterised in that said torque means is included within said central gyro and is for applying torque within said central gyro tending to affect motion about said single degree of freedom when said single degree of freedom is oriented along said vertical axis said azimuthal drive means is connected to said transducer means and is coupled to rotate said gimbal means in response to said deflection signal when said single degree of freedom is orientated along said horizontal axis and control means are connected between said transducer means and said azimuthal drive means for controlling the latter in response to said deflection signals,said control means being operable when said degree of freedom is oriented along said horizontal axis to drive said azimuthal drive means in a direction to cause gyroscopical motion about said degree of freedom tending to maintain said spin axis at a predetermined orientation. The gyro also has a torque means connected to the transducer means. The torque means can respond to the deflection signal and apply a torque to the central gyro tending to affect motion about the single degree of freedom. The control means can operate to successively drive the gimbal means to two orthogonal positions. The control means is connected to the torque means and can operate to feed back from the transducer means to the torque means, a rate signal sized to restrict motion about the single degree of freedom. This rate signal bears a predetermined relationship to the horizontal component of the angular rate of rotation of the earth transverse to the spin axis of the gyro. This control means can provide a compass signal bearing a predetermined trigonometric relation to the two values of the rate signal when the gimbal means is in the two orthogonal positions. This compass signal is an estimate of the north to south direction. Preferably, the central gyro is mounted in an azimuthal gimbal which is, in turn, supported within roll and pitch gimbals. The pitch and roll gimbals are driven by torquers so that the azimuthal gimbal is kept erect and can rotate about a vertical axis. If a brute force method of erection is used high angular momentum wheel , level sensors drive torquers to provide a torque to an associated gimbal roll or pitch when motion is desired about the other gimbal. Preferably, however, a pair of single degree of freedom gyros are mounted on a middle gimbal for stabilization and isolation of the central gyro from base motion. These gyros separately cooperate with individual level sensors which apply an input torque along the degree of freedom of each gyro. Each gyro output is from a transducer which senses motion about the single degree of freedom and applies a feedback signal to a torquer on the pitch or roll gimbal tending to erect that gimbal. This combination of elements is known as a stabilization servo. In a preferred embodiment, the control means is a computer which receives as its inputs the signal from the transducer measuring displacement about the single degree of freedom of the central gyro. The computer can also azimuthally rotate the central gyro by rotating the azimuthal gimbal for both the gyrocompass and directional mode. Preferably, the spin axis of the central gyro is aligned very closely to the horizontal component of the angular rate of rotation of the earth but no attempt is made to make the alignment exact. Instead, the gyroscope operating as a rate sensor, measures the offset of the gyro from true north. This offset is stored in the computer as a correction factor. This feature is signifcant since it avoids applying disturbances to a sensitive gyro when it is measuring extremely small angular rates. If such disturbances were applied, the resulting effects would overwhelm the small measurement in progress, necessitating large settling times and signifcant errors. In the preferred embodiment, north Is estimated by taking two measurements of the earth s angular rate of rotation with the spin axis at two horizonal positions spaced by 90 . The ratio and polarities of these measurements are applied to an arctangent formula to estimate north. Thereafter, the spin axis is rotated to an estimated south direction to start the procedure for estimating bias. Once the measurement in the southerly position is made, the data is updated and the gyrocompass rotated to the best estimate of north. At this point, the rates at both the south and north positions and the associated azimuthal gimbal readings are used to calculate the offset of the spin axis from north and the bias error. Preferably, the above measurements of small angular rates are made repetitively by a computer and then averaged to eliminate, as far as possible, noise. Also, the gyro can be subsequently turned to a gyrocompass mode and quickly realigned using abbreviated procedures. The above brief description as well as other objects, features and advantages of the present invention will be more fully appreciated by reference to the following detailed description of presently preferred but nonetheless illustrative embodiments in accordance with the present invention when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings wherein Referring to Figure 1, a central gyro 10 is shown with its single degree of freedom aligned to vertical axis 12. Gyro 10 includes a spinning element 14 having a horizontal spin axis 16, which is transverse to vertical axis 12. As is well understood in the art, rotation of the case of gyro 10 about horizontal axis 18, tends to cause torque on its float and consequent float motion about the single degree of freedom of gyro 10 about vertical axis 12 . This axis is usually called the output axis OA of the gyro. In this embodiment, gyro 10 has an internal fluid bearing which allows spin axis 16 to rotate azimuthally. Such azimuthal rotation can be measured by internal transducer means schematically illustrated hereinafter which may be an electromagnetic device having a null position but producing an offset signal when the spin axis is rotated away from this null position. Gyro 10 also includes a torque means schematically illustrated hereinafter operable to apply a torque tending to azimuthally drive spin axis 16 in a direction determined by the electrical drive applied to this torque means. Such devices are known in the art as torquers and are described further hereinafter. Central gyro 10 is mounted in a gimbal means shown herein as gimbal frame 20. Gyro 10 is rotatably mounted within gimbal 20 so that the gyro may rotate from the position shown in full to the position shown in phantom. Such rotation brings the single degree of freedom of gyro 10 from the illustrated vertical position 12 to the horizontal position 18. This essentially changes the input axis of gyro 10 from a horizontal to a vertical orientation. Referring to Figure 2, previously mentioned gimbal 20 is illustrated schematically as supporting gyro 10 about horizontal axle 22. Motor 24 is shown connected to axle 22 to drive gyro 10 from the position shown single degree of freedom vertical by 90 degrees so that the degree of freedom is then horizontal. Central gyro 10 is schematically illustrated as being partitioned into the previously mentioned torque means 26 and the previously mentioned transducer means 28. Gimbal 20 is shown mounted by vertical shafts onto pitch gimbal 30. Pitch gimbal 30 is rotatably mounted about a horizontal axis within a roll gimbal 32. Roll gimbal 32 is rotatably mounted to case 34. The shock absorbing devices 36A and 36B are optional. As illustrated, gimbal 32 can rotate about an axis which is orthogonal to the axis of rotation of gimbal 30. Mounted on gimbal 30, is an azumuthal drive means, shown herein as motor 38 which is mechanically coupled to shaft 40 to rotate gimbal 20 azimuthally. In this embodiment, gimbals 30 and 20 are kept erect by a brute force method employing spinning wheel 42, having a relatively high angular momentum. To this end, level sensor 44 is mounted on gimbal 30 and senses rolling motions from true vertical to apply through feedback amplifier 46 a signal which causes torquer 48 to apply a torque to the pitch axis axle supporting pitch gimbal 30 . For well understood reasons, spinning wheel 42 produces rotation along an orthogonal axis axle supporting roll gimbal 32 tending to erect and stabiliz gimbal 20. Similarly, level sensor 50 senses pitching motion away from vertical to feedback through amplifier 52 a signal tending to cause torquer 54 to apply a correcting torque about the roll axis axle supporting roll gimbal 32 . Again for well understood reasons, spinning wheel 42 produces an erecting and stabilizing motion about the orthogonal pitch axis axle supporting pitch gimbal 30 . Level sensor 56 is shown mounted atop gyro 10 to sense deviation of the gyro from vertical. This latter sensor is an optional cross check of the other level sensors. Sensor 56 is connected to a control means shown schematically herein as block 58. Preferably, control means 58 is a computer having memory and employing digital to analog and analog to digital converter 60. The interior of block 60 is shown schematically incorporating certain circuitry. It will be understood, however, that this illustrated circuitry is only suggestive of the type of functions performed by computer 58. The output of transducer 28 is connected to the input of amplifier 62, whose output connects to the input of control device 66 and to one input of summing circuit 64. Summing device 64 has its other input connected to level sensor 56, and its output connected to torquer 26. Control device 66 has an output connected to azimuthal drive motor 38 for driving it. Computer 58 is programmed to apply signals to torquer 26 and drive motor 38 to perform the sequence of operations described hereinafter. It will be understood, however, that while a computer is preferred, it may be replaced by other circuitry similar to that schematically illustrated herein. In that case, conventional feedback circuitry may be employed to produce the effects described subsequently and capacitive of other forms of memory may be used, if required. Referring to Figure 3, an illustrated, alternate embodiment bears the same reference numerals for components which are the same as in Figure 2. In the embodiment of Figure 3, instead of a brute force approach, the previously mentioned high angular momentum wheel is replaced by a pair of gyroscopes 70 and 72, each having a single degree of freedom. Gyroscope 70 has a torquer 70A and a transducer 70B operating about the degree of freedom in a manner similar to that described for central gyro 10. Similarly, gyro 72 has operating about its degree of freedom a torquer 72A and a transducer 72B. The input axis of gyroscope 70 is parallel to the pitch axis, motion about this pitch axis being controlled by torquer 74. Errors from vertical about the pitch axis are sensed by level sensor 76 which applies a torque to torquer 70A tending to produce a compensating output from transducer 70B which when coupled through feedback amplifier 78, applies a signal to torquer 74 to erect pitch gimbal 30. The input axis of gyroscope 72 is orthogonal to the input axis of gyroscope 70 and the azimuthal axis 40. Consequently, when the pitch gimbal 30 as controlled by torquer 74 is approximately erect, then the input axis of gyroscope 72 is approximately parallel to the roll axis. The roll gimbal is rotated by roll torquer 80. Roll level sensor 82 senses deviations in roll from vertical to apply a torque through torquer 72A to gyroscope 72. This produces a correction signal through transducer 72B which when fed back through amplifier 84, produces a torque from torquer 80 tending to erect gimbal 32 so that central gyro 10 is corrected for deviations in roll from vertical. It will be appreciated that gyroscopes 70 and 72 are therefore corrected on a long term basis by level sensors 76 and 82, respectively. High speed corrections, however, can be made by gyroscopic error signal produced directly by gyroscopes 70 and 72. A control means is again shown herein as a computer 86 having a digital to analog and analog to digital converter 88. Structurally, computer 86 may be the same as the previously described computer computer 58 of Figure 2 . However, computer 86 may be programmed to operate and function differently. This different function is suggested by apparent amplifier 90, whose input connects to transducer 28 and whose output connects to torquer 26. The output of amplifier 90 is connected to the input of control device 92, whose output drives azimuthal drive motor 38. In order to facilitate an understanding of the principles associated with the foregoing apparatus, its operation will be briefly described. The operation of the apparatus of Figure 2 is similar to that of Figure 3, except an additional correction signal is provided from level sensor 56 Figure 2 to computer 58 to correct for unexpected errors in the positioning caused by motor 24 or errors due to misalignment from horizontal of the input axis of gyro 10 when both bubble sensor 50 and 44 are at a null. As previously mentioned, level sensor 56 is optional. Also, the operation of the apparatus of Figure 2 differs in that gimbal 20 is erected and stabilized by a brute force method using the level sensors, feedback devices and torquers previously described. Therefore, the operation of the apparatus of Figure 3 will be specifically described, it being understood that the operation of the apparatus of Figure 2 is similar except as just noted. In the following description, it will be assumed that gyroscopes 70 and 72 are operating normally so that gimbal 20 is erect and the axle 40 is kept vertical. Such erection is facilitated by optional shock absorbing system 36A and 36B which filter vibrations of a frequency that may be too high to be corrected by gyros 70 and 72. Initially, gyroscope 10 is oriented as shown with its single degree of freedom output axis vertical. The spin axis is then horizontal and approximately aligned with the axle 22. For well understood reasons, the input axis of gyroscope 10 is transverse to its spin axis and therefore horizontal. Unless the spin axis is by chance aligned with the horizontal component of the angular rate of rotation of the earth, the earth s rotation will tend to apply a torque about the degree of freedom of gyroscope 10, therefore causing a deflection signal from transducer 28. The feedback mechanism 90 produces a compensating signal which when applied to torquer 26 balances the torque caused by the rotation of the earth. The loop gain is such that very little rotation is permitted about the degree of freedom of gyroscope 10. Consequently, gyroscope 10 acts as a rate sensor producing an output from feedback amplifier 90 that is a measure of the horizontal component of the angular rotation of the earth. This initial measurement is considered the first reading of gyroscope 10 in its gyrocompass mode. As shown in Figure 4, the horizontal component of the angular rate of rotation of the earth is illustrated as the vector Wn. The input axis of gyroscope 10 is initially oriented along vector R1, thereby measuring a component R1 of the earth s angular rate of rotation. Of course, the spin axis of gyro 10 is orthogonal to the input axis reading R1 and is oriented along the direction of vector R2. Angular positions of gyroscope 10 are defined herein as the angle between the gyroscope spin axis and horizontal projection of the roll axis RA. Therefore, the position of gyroscope 10 for reading R1 is defined as angle A1. The orientation of earth rate vector Wn the angle to be measured is illustrated herein as angle An, the angle between the horizontal projection of the roll axis RA and vector Wn. The value of measurement R1 may be defined as follows wherein quantity An is an estimate of angle An it is only an estimate since certain biasing errors need to be taken into account . It will be noted that for the condition shown in Figure 4, for this first reading, the rate signal measurement R1 is a positive quantity. This quantity R1 is sensed by control device 92 Figure 3 and its polarity noted. Control device 92 next commands azimuthal drive motor 38 to rotate gimbal 20 by 90 exactly. The direction in which rotation occurs depends upon the polarity of rate signal R1. When rate signal R1 is positive and negative gimbal 20 is rotated counterclockwise and clockwise, respectively when viewed from above . Accordingly, the input axis of gyroscope 10 is now oriented as shown by vector R2 Figure 4 . Vector R2 represents the component of earth vector Wn now measured by gyroscope 10 after being azimuthally rotated 90 positive value for vector R2 . Since gyroscope 10 was rotated counterclockwise, its spin axis is now antipodal to vector R1. Consequently, the value of the second rate reading R2 may be expressed as follows the function sign is equal to plus one when the value of its independent variable R1 is positive or zero, otherwise this function equals minus one. Equations 1 and 3 above can be solved for the estimated angle to north An according to the following formula wherein the arctangent function is sensitive to the sign of the numerator and denominator to determine in which of the four quadrants angle An is located. This expression then provides an estimate of where approximately north is oriented. Azimuthal motor 38 Figure 3 now operates to drive gimbal 20 to an antipodal position, that is, 180 away from the angular estimate of north An . This third position is defined as angle As and equals angle An plus 180 . Accordingly, the value of the third rate reading R3 may be defined as follows wherein B is a bias term and angle An is a second estimate of angle An. The second approximate expression equation 6 relies on the fact that the parenthetical term is almost zero degrees. Angle An is still an estimate, since it will still need a final correction when gyroscope 10 is rotated into its final position as described hereinafter. Equation 6 has two independent variables and cannot be solved by itself An and B . Consequently, gyroscope 10 is again azimuthally rotated to bring its spin axis into an estimated northerly orientation. This northerly orientation is estimated from equation 6, a measurement performed with the spin axis almost pointing south, by setting bias term B equal to zero. Then by rearranging equation 6 The value of angle An is the best present estimate of north and therefore the gimbal 20 is rotated to this angle. In this fourth position, the fourth rate reading R4 can be expressed as follows The linear expression 9 replaces the sine function 8 since its argument is almost zero. Alternatively, if the argument here and in equation 5 is substantial, the solution can be more exactly obtained by computing the arcsin. It will be seen that if equation 6 is modified by replacing angle An with angle An, these equations 6 and 9 can be solved for the variable angle An. These two linear equations can be solved for the final estimate An as follows The above equation may be rearranged as follows It will be noted that the first parenthetical term in equation 11 can be simplified by using equation 7 eliminating R3 to produce the following expressions wherein the error is defined as the deviation of gimbal 20 from true north, that is, angle An. Thus, gimbal 20 has now been moved into an approximately northerly orientation and its deviation from true north can be calculated from equation 13 is a simple manner. The bias B may be found by adding equation 6 and 9 and using equation 7 again to eliminate R3 thus This bias is used later in a realign mode to speed up the north seeking mode. Accordingly, now that the spin axis of gyroscope 10 has been given a known orientation very close to north, north has been measured. Gyroscope 10 may now be transferred into a directional mode. In contrast to the gyrocompass mode, the vehicle in which the gyro is mounted may move. To effect the directional mode, computer 86 energizes motor 24 causing the degree of freedom of gyroscope 10 to move from a vertical to a horizontal axis as shown in Figure 1. During this rotation, the various gimbals may be blocked so that they do not change their presently desired orientation. Once the input axis of gyroscope 10 has been thus shifted to a vertical orientation, gyroscope 10 becomes sensitive to azimuthal changes of gimbal 20. Basically, the system will now operate to keep gimbal 20 Figure 3 at the same azimuthal orientation with respect to an inertial system, even though the vehicle may move underneath gimbal 20, as follows The realign mode consists of stopping the vehicle supporting the case and re determining north rapidly. Gyroscope 10 is transferred to a north finding mode the azimuth gimbal is moved through a small angle equal to the negative of the error of equation 13. A rate reading Rr is then taken of the horizontal component of earth s rate for an azimuth gimbal angle Ar. Similar to previous equations, with An the realign estimate of north, Gyroscope 10 is then transferred to a directional mode as before and the computer 86 transmits the corrected heading at the required sample rate. Another optional procedure is estimating the inherent drift on the gyro when the vehicle is stationary. This procedure is initiated either by a signal from an operator or in response to changes in the transducers resolvers monitoring the various gimbals that are so small and slow as to indicate a stopped vehicle. In response, the computer 86 can monitor the rate at which gyro 10 drifts, storing that number away for subsequent use. This drift estimate is subsequently used to offset the gyro heading measurements to account for drift over the elapsed interval. It is to be appreciated that various modifications may be implemented with respect to the above described preferred embodiments. While north is found in the above embodiment by a four step process, in other embodiments more or fewer steps may be employed, depending upon the accuracy required. Also, the disclosed computers may perform various functions and subroutines in a different order, depending upon the system requirements. Furthermore, the various torquers, motors and transducers mentioned herein may be of varying types depending upon the desired accuracy, speed, power, mass, etc. While various types of bearings are mentioned herein, it is to be appreciated that the bearing type may be changed depending upon the specific application. Also, while the gimbals disclosed herein have a specific shape, this shape may be altered depending upon the available volume or other design considerations. Moreover, in embodiments where a directional mode is not required, the equipment used to rotate the gyro upon its spin axis by 90 may be eliminated. In addition, the various components may be formed of appropriate materials to achieve the desired strength, weight, mass, speed, temperature stability, etc. Obviously, many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims, the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described.