# Oil burner for camping cooking.

## Abstract
A fuel arriving from a pipe 3 at a preheating annular duct 4 passing through a swan neck 5 to a part 6 where a hollow rod 7 is fitted, regulating the fuel leaving an injector 8 . This fuel, after having left the injector 8 is ignited, and the resulting flame heats the annular duct 4 . Part of the fuel in annular duct 4 will flow under pressure through radial ducts 10 , communicating with a centrally arranged cup 9 . The nebulization of the fuel in cup 9 will be completed by the same heat radiated by the burning fuel having left the injector 8 .

## Claims
CLAIMS 1 Oil burner for camping cooking, characterized by the fact that substantially a small cup is employed, which is centrally fitted in the pre heating annular duct, from which the fluid is coming completing its nebulization after having left the injector. In addition, the pipe of which the pre heating annular is consisting, has been foreseen in a l 2 G. diameter, to allow an increase of the evaporation effect. The reduction of the fuel volume contained in the pre heating zone in comparison with the present devices and the replacement of the contentrical shell shaped annular with the small cup allow the employ of the burner indifferently with either fuels, both singularly and differently mixed. 2 Oil burner for camping cooking, according to the previous claim, characterized by the fact that a tank for the fuel is used, set and kept in pressure by operating a machanical piston device fed through a duct. The pressure determined by this pumping contrivance can be between the ideal values from 0.1 to 0.2 atm. which guarantees the required delivery of fuel. 3 Oil burner for camping cooking, according to the previous claims, characterized by the fact that foresees the fuel passing from the tank 1 by means of tank 2 through pipe 3 into the pre heating annular 4, from which, through swan neck 5, it reaches the regulation part 6 where rod 7 is fitted gliding along its axle and dosing the fuid exit from injector 8. 4 Oil burner for camping cooking, according to the previous claims, characterized by the fact that the fuel in liquid gaseous phase, through a system of steel ducts 10 in a radial scheme, reaches cup 9. On contacting this one, the fuel completes its transformation into gaseous state and is ignited starting the combustion proceeding. 5 Oil burner for camping cooking, according to the previous claims, characterized by the fact that for ignition, a quantity of fluid is required to fill cup 11, and means of different kinds are to be triggered, such as a wick, a thermal lance, a poker or a common bundle imbibed with either benzine of alcohol. After abma minuted waiting, useful for the fuel liquid pre heating in the burner piping, inlet 6 can be slowly opened leading to the injector so as to allow a gradual ignition of the fuel.

## Description
Oilsburner for camping cooking The invention refers to a burner operated with either fuel oil or kerosene singularly or differently mixed, and using only one injector. The device can be employed for heating cans or stoves to co ok foods and three types of cooking are possible in water, il oil and in air. At present burners are used operating either with fuels oil or kerosene the former type shows an outer top annular part having inside two spherical callottes closed in a shell like way, operating as pre heating chambers of the combustible fluid which then passes into the above outer part through a radial piping. The fluid passes through a swan neck and reaches the injector, where a delivery regulator is operating.The outgoing liquid sprinkles the lower part of the above mentioned spherical callottes, completing thus its transformation from the liquid into the gas state.The inconvenience of this system resides in causing a pressure increase in the tank which, after an operation time longer than 60 min. reaches values near 1 atu. that are deemed dangerous. The employ of kerosene in these burners is at present practically impoBBible since the exceeding volume of fuel contained in the pre heating zone causes it to be transformed from the liquid into the gas 9etin a too large quantity so that to push the transformation of physical state into the pre heating zone. This lets the gaseous mass to remount the way going agarnst pressure and pouring in the fuel tank, causing the formation of bubBles. This fluctuating increase of pressure in the tank raises pressure and temperature which attain dangerous values for the device employ.Differently from the present systems, the invented one exludes the employ of the central shell shaped body and of the relevant pre heating system. In addition, the pre heating annular is foreseen in a diameter lower than 3 4 G to permit a smaller quantity of fluid going through the pre heating zone and, therefore, a more efficient evaporation. The reduction of the fuel volume contained in the pre heating zone in comparison with the present devices and the replacement of the concentrical shell shaped annular with the small cup allow the employ of the burner indiffe rently with either fuels, both singularly and differently mixed.Substantially a small cup is employed, which is centrally fitted in the pre heating annular duct, from which the fluid is coming completing its nebulization after having left the injector. In addition, the pipe of which the pre heating annular is consisting, has been foreseen in a I 2 G. diameter, to allow an increase of the evaporation effect. A tank for the fuel is used, set and kept in pressure by operating a mechanical piston device fed through a duct. The pressure determined by this pumping contrivance can be between the ideal values from 0.1 to 0.2 atm. which guarantees the required deliVery of fuel.A version of execution is illustrated for information by the drawings of Table 1, where Fig. 1 represents the burner in a front view showing the adduction way of the fuel from the tank, the preheating annular and the small basin for the firing fuel containment. Fig. 2 shows the installation seen from above, and the preheating annular can be seen which is fitted on thesmall cup by means of a systet of four steel ducts in a radial scheme. Fig. 3 is the longitudinal section of the burner, showing the pre heating annular and the injector adduction part. The section of the regu lating device can also be noted.The invention foresees the fuel passing from the tank 1 by means of tank 2 through pipe 3 into the pre heating annular 4, from which, through swan neck 5, it reaches the regulation part 6 where rod 7 is fitted gliding along its axle and dosing the fluid exit from injector 8. The fuel in liquid gaseous phase, through a system of steal ducts 10 in a radial scheme, reaches cup 9. On contacting this one, the fuel completes its transformation into gaseous state and is ignited starting the combustion proceeding. For ignition, a quantity of fluid is required to fill cup 11, and means of different kinds are to be triggered, such as wick, a thermal lance, a poker or a common bundle imbibed with either benzine or alcohol. After some minutes waiting, useful for the fuel liquid pre heating in the burner piping, inlet 6 can be slowly opened leading to the injector so as to allow a gradual ignition of the fuel.The particulars and the various devices, as well as the base composition, may be differently executed according to employ requirements.