# Methotrexate labeled iodothyronine conjugates and method, reagent means and test device for the determination of iodothyronine in or iodothyronine uptake of a liquid sample.

## Abstract
Methotrexate labeled iodothyronine conjugates useful as labeled conjugates in specific binding assays e.g., homogeneous immunoassays for determining iodothyr onines, particularly thyroxine and triiodothyronine, or for determining iodothyronine uptake in liquid samples. The methotrexate label is monitored preferably by measuring its inhibitory effect on the enzyme dihydrofolate reductase. Also provided are assay methods, reagent means, test kits and test devices for determining an iodothyronine, comprising the methotrexate labeled conjugate, a binding protein e.g., antibody for the iodothyronine, dihydrofolate reductase, and an indicator of dihydrofolate reductase activity, and for determining iodothyronine uptake, comprising the labeled conjugate, binding protein, dihydrofolate reductase, and enzyme indicator.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A methotrexate labeled iodothyronine conjugate of the formula EMI32.1 wherein NH L is an iodothyronine, or a derivative thereof, coupled through an amide bond. 2. A conjugate of Claim I wherein said iodothyronine is thyroxine. 3. A conjugate of claim 1 or 2 wherein NH L is of the formula EMI32.2 wherein ss1 and ss2 ar, independently, hydrogen or iodine, and wherein ether k1 is a bond and R2 and R3 are hydro gen, or one of R1, R2 and R3 is NHR and the other two are hydrogen, where k iS a linking group. 4. A conjugate according to claims 1 to 3 of the formula EMI33.1 wherein n is an integer from 2 through 12, and ssl and 62 are, independently, hydrogen or iodine. 5. A method for determining an iodothyronine in a liquid sample, comprising the steps of a combining said liquid sample and i a methotrexate labeled iodothyronine conjugate of Claims 1 to 4, ii a binding protein for said iodothyronine, iii dihydrofolate reductase, and iv an indicator responsive to dihydrofolate reductase activity to form a reaction mixture, and b measuring the indicator response in said reaction mixture as a function of the iodothyronine in the sample. 6. A method for determining iodothyronine uptake of a liquid sample, comprising the steps of a combining said liquid sample and i a methotrexate labeled iodothyronine conjugate of Claims 1 to 4, ii dihydrofolate reductase, and iii an indicator responsive to dihydrofolate reductase activity to form a reaction mixture, and b measuring the indicator response in said reaction mixture as a function of iodothyronine uptake of said sample. 7. Reagent means for the determination of an iodothyronine in a liquid sample, comprising a a methotrexate labeled iodothyronine conjugate of Claims 1 to 4, b a binding protein for said iodothyronine, c diydrofolate reductase, and d an indicator responsive to dihydrofolate reductase activity. 8. Reagent means for the determination of iodothyronine uptake of a liquid sample, comprising a a methotrexate labeled iodothyronine conjugate of Claims l to 4, b dihydrofolate reductase, and c an indicator responsive to dihydrofolate reductase activity. 9. A test device for the determination of an iodothyronine in a liquid sample, comprising the reagent means of Claim 7 and a solid carrier member incorporated therewith. 10. A test device for the determination of iodothyronine uptake of a liquid sample, comprising the reagent means of Claim 8 and a solid carrier member incorporated therewith.

## Description
METHOTREXATE LABELED IODOTHYRONINE CONJUGATESAND METHOD, REAGENT MEANS AND TEST DEVICE FOR THEDETERMINATION OF IODOTHYRONINE IN OR IODOTHYRONINEUPTAKE OF A LIQUID SAMPLE BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 1. FIELD OF HE INVENTION This invention relates to methotrexate labeled iodothyronine conjugates, and assay methods, reagent means, test kits, and test devices comprising such conjugates. The conjugates of the present invention are useful as labeled conjugates in specific binding assays, particularly homogeneous immunoassays, for determining iodothyronines in or iodothyronine uptake of a liquid sample, usually a biological fluid. In particular, the invention relates to methotrexate labeled thyroxine conjugates useful in homogeneous enzyme inhibitor labeled immunoassays for determining thyroxine in serum or plasma samples. The iodothyronines have the following general formula EMI1.1 wherein ssl and ss2 are, independently, hydrogen or iodine. The iodothyronines of clinical interest are listed in the following table Iodothyronine al a2 3,5,3 5 tetraiodothyronine iodine iodine thyroxine T 4 3,5,3 triiodothyronine iodine hydrogen liothyronine T 3 3,5 ,5 triiodothyronine hydrogen iodine reverse T 3 3,3t diiodothyronine hydrogen hydrogen The quantitative determination of the concentration of the various iodothyronines, particularly the hormones T 3 and T 4, in serum and of the degree of saturation of the iodothyronine binding sites on the carrier protein thyroid binding globulin TBG are valuable aids in the diagnosis of thyroid disorders. 2. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF HE PRIOR AR Specific binding assay methods have undergone a technological evolution from the original competitive binding radioimmunoassay RIA in which a radioisotope labeled antigen is made to compete with antigen from a test sample for binding to specific antibody. In theRIA technique, sample antigen is quantitated by measuring the proportion of radioactivity which becomes associated with the antibody by binding of the radiolabeled antigen the bound species of the labeled antigen to the radioactivity that remains unassociated from antibody the free species and then comparing that proportion to a standard curve.A comprehensive review of the RIA technique is provided by Skelly et al, Clan. Chem. 19 146 1973 . While by definition RIA is based on the binding of specific antibody with an antigen or hapten, radiolabeled binding assays have been developed based on other specific binding interactions, such as between hormones and their binding proteins. From radiolabeled binding assays have evolved nonradioisotopic binding assays employing labeling substances such as enzymes as described in U.S. PatentsNos. 3,654,090 and 3,817,837. Recently, further improved nonradioisotopic binding assays have been developed as described in U.S. Patents Nos. 4,134,792 4,230,797 and 4,238,565, assigned to the present assignee, employing such unique labeling substances as enzyme modulators, enzyme substrates, coenzymes, chemiluminescent molecules, and enzyme prosthetic groups. In particular, U.S. Patent No. 4,134,792 describes a specific binding assay employing an enzyme modulator, particularly an enzyme inhibitor, as the labeling substance. Where the labels an enzyme inhibitor, it is monitored by its ability to inhibit a predetermined enzymatic reaction. The use of methotrexate 4 aminol0 methylfolic acid , an inhibitor for the enzyme dihydrofolate reductase, as an enzyme inhibitor label is taught and a general structural formula and a preparative synthetic sequence is provided for methotrexatelabeled conjugates. Additionally, Belgian Patent No. 864,856 describes enzyme modulator e.g., enzyme inhibitor labeled specific binding assays and specifically exemplifies the preparation and use of methotrexate labeled conjugates for the ligands digoxin, albumin and morphine. The preparation of nonradioisotopically labeled iodothyronine conjugates in general is notoriously and uniquely fraught with difficulties and complexities.This is due to several factors, the principal of which are the hydrophobicity and low water solubility of the iodothyronines and the propensity of iodothyronines to undergo free radical decomposition and photodeiodination. Other literature of general interest to the preparation of conjugates comprising iodothyronines, particularly thyroxine, are U.S. Patent No. 4,040,907 describing enzyme labeled iodothyronines and U.S. PatentNo. 4,171,432 describing flavin adenine dinucleotide FAD labeled iodothyronines. The preparation of unsymmetrical anhydrides of glutamic acid is described in Org. Prep. Proc. Int. 12 2 67 1978 . The preparation of methotrexate fluorescein conjugates by this route is described in J. Med. Chem. 18 EJ 526 1975 . SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION Labeled iodothyronine conjugates comprising the enzyme inhibitor methotrexate as the label are now provided having the formula EMI5.1 wherein NH L is an iodothyronine, e.g., thyroxine or triiodothyronine, or a derivative thereof, coupled through an amide bond. The methotrexate labeled conjugates are useful as labeled conjugates in specific binding assays such as immunoassays for determining iodothyronines in liquid samples or for determining iodothyronine uptake e.g., T 3 uptake of liquid samples. Either homogeneous or heterogeneous assay formats can be used, although a homogeneous format is generally preferred. In one type of homogeneous immunoassay for determining an iodothyronine in a sample, the methotrexatelabeled conjugate comprising the iodothyronine to be determined or a binding analog thereof and any of the iodothyronine that is present in the sample are placed in competition for binding to a binding protein for the iodothyronine, e.g., an antibody raised against the iodothyronine. Two forms of the labeled conjugate result a bound form in which the labeled conjugate is bound by antibody and a free form in which the conjugate is not so bound, with the proportion of the labeled conjugate between the two forms being a function of the concentration of iodothyronine in the test sample. The ability of the conjugated methotrexate label to inhibit the enzyme dihydrofolate reductase is significantly less in the bound form compared to the free form. Accordingly, the proportion of labeled conjugate between the two forms can be assessed without having to physically separate the two forms, i.e., the assay is homogeneous, by adding the enzyme and measuring the amount of uninhibited enzyme activity resulting in the reaction mixture. Dihydrofolate reductase activity is preferably measured with an indicator comprising the substrate dihydrofolate and NADPH nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate , and optionally a chromogenic substance responsive to the formation of tetrahydrofolate. Thus, reagent means are provided for determining an iodothyronine in a liquid sample, comprising a a methotrexate labeled conjugate of said iodothyronine b a binding protein, e.g., antibody, for the iodothyronine, c dihydrofolate reductase, and d an indicator responsive to dihydrofolate reductase activity. Iodothyronine uptake of a liquid sample is determined, in one example, by combining the sample with a methotrexate labeled iodothyronine conjugate. Where the iodothyronine in the conjugate is triiodothyronine, the assay is for T 3 uptake. Binding proteins in the sample, predominantly thyroid binding globulin TBG , bind the labeled conjugate, thereby significantly reducing the ability of the methotrexate label to inhibit dihydrofolate reductase. Upon addition of the enzyme, the amount of resulting uninhibited enzyme activity is a function of the amount of labeled conjugate taken up by binding to sample proteins. Thus, reagent means are provided for determining iodothyronine uptake of a liquid sample comprising a a methotrexate labeled iodothyronine conjugate, b dihydrofolate reductase, and c an indicator responsive to dihydrofolate reductase activity. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS Figs. 1, la, and 2 are flow diagrams of the synthetic routes illustrated in the Examples for preparing methotrexate labeled iodothyronine conjugates. DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS The methotrexate labeled iodothyronine conjugates of the present invention are prepared by pep tide condensation between the 6 carboxyl group in methotrexate and an appropriate amino iodothyronine compound. The iodothyronines themselves contain an amino function and therefore can be coupled to methotrexate directly.Alternatively, an amino derivative of the iodothyronine can be prepared and used to couple to methotrexate.Usually, such an amino iodothyronine derivative will be a compound of formula I EMI8.1 wherein a1 and ss2 are, independently, hydrogen or iodine, and wherein one of R1, R2 and R3 is H2NR and the other two are hydrogen, where R is a linking or spacer group. Linking group R can vary widely and will be a bond or a chain, normally an aliphatic chain, comprising between 1 and 20 atoms, more usually between 1 and 10 atoms, excluding hydrogen, of which between G and 5 are heteroatoms selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur.Exemplary of useful linking groups R are linear and branched alkylenes comprising from 1 to as many as 12, more usually 8 or less, and normally less than 6, carbon atoms e.g., methylene, ethylene, n propylene, iso propylene, n butylene, and so forth . In addition, such alkylenes can contain substituent groups, in addition to the terminal amino substituent for coupling to methotrexate, such as hydroxyl, halogen, carbonyl groups, carboxyl including substituted carboxyls such as esters, amides, and substituted amides , cyano, and thiol. Linking group R may also contain or consist of substituted or unsubstituted aryl, aralkyl, or heteroalkyl groups e.g., phenylene, phenethylene, and so forth . Additionally, such linkages may contain one or more heteroatoms selected from nitrogen, oxygen and sulfur in the form of ether, ester, amido, thio ether, amidino, sulfone or sulfoxide.Also, such linkages may include unsaturated groupings such as olefinic or acetylinic bonds, imino, or oximino groups. A preferred linking group is linear alkylene, i.e., CH2 with n being an integer from 2 through 12. Accordingly, the choice of linking group R is not critical to the present invention and may be selected by one of ordinary skill taking normal precautions to assure that stable compounds are produced. The preparation of several different classes of useful amino functionalized iodothyronines I will now be specifically exemplified. A preferred class of amino functionalized iodothyronines are the N aminoalkyl iodothyronines of the formula EMI9.1 wherein ssl and B2 are defined as above, n is an integer from 2 through 12, and Y is hydrogen or a carboxyl protecting group such as linear or branched alkyl, preferably lower alkyl C1 4 such as methyl, ethyl, n propyl, iso propyl, n butyl, etc. These N derivatives can be prepared by first reacting aminoalkylaldehyde diethyl acetal 11 with ethyl trifluoroacetate and triethylamine in ethanol to yield the N trifluoroacetate III .EMI10.1 Hydrolysis yields the alkyraldehyde N trifluoroacetate IV which upon reaction with iodothyronine ethyl ester hydrochloride and sodium cyanoborohydride in ethanol gives the N U aminoalkyl iodothyronine esters V , Ethyl, which yield the N X aminoalkyl iodothyronines VI , Y hydrogen, upon saponification. Further details and exemplification of the preparation of N aminoalkyl iodothyronine derivatives are given in the U.S. PatentApplication filed on even date herewith, assigned to the present assignee, entitled N Aminoalkyl Iodothyronine Derivatives, Immunogens, and Antibodies. DocketNo.MS 1211 Derivatization at the phenolic oxygen in the iodothyronines is exemplified by the preparation ofO carboxyalkyl derivatives by alkylation of the corresponding N acetates as described in German OLS 2,737,802. Functionalization at the carboxyl group in the iodothyronines is obtained by condensation of the iodothyronine with a diaminoalkane to form an N aminoalkyl amide derivative, which can then be. condensed with methotrexate anhydride by conventional amide bond forming reactions. The labeled conjugates of the present invention are useful in specific binding assays for determining iodothyronines or iodothyronine uptake in a liquid test sample, usually a biological fluid such as serum or plasma, where methotrexate is used as the label.The methotrexate label is preferably monitored by its ability to inhibit the enzyme dihydrofolate reductase.Accordingly, iodothyronines can be determined by combining the liquid test sample with a methotrexate labeled iodothyronine conjugate of the present invention, a binding protein, e.g., antibody or fragment thereof, for the iodothyronine under assay, dihydrofolate reductase, and an indicator responsive to dihydrofolate reductase activity. The labeled conjugate, which is active as an inhibitor of dihydrofolate reductase, competes with iodothyronine in the sample for binding to the binding protein. Conjugate which becomes bound to the binding protein becomes less active as an inhibitor, and thus the level of resulting dihydrofolate reductase activity in the reaction mixture is inversely related to the amount of iodothyronine in the sample. Similarly, the iodothyronine uptake, e.g., T 3 uptake, of a sample can be determined by combining the sample with labeled conjugate of the present invention, dihydrofolate reductase, and an indicator responsive to dihydrofolate reductase activity. Labeled conjugate which is taken up by binding proteins in the sample becomes less active as an enzyme inhibitor. Thus, the amount of resulting dihydrofoloate reductase activity in the reaction mixture is a direct function of the iodothyronine uptake value for the sample. Any known indicator of dihydrofolate reductase activity can be used to monitor the enzyme activity in the reaction mixture. Usually, such indicator comprises a composition of reagents including NADPH and dihydrofolate. Enzymatic catalysis of the conversion of dihydrofolate to tetrahydrofolate in the presence of the cofactor NADPH results in the formation of oxidized cofactor NADP and these reactions are monitored by the decrease in absorbance at 340 nm.One can also measure NADP colorimetrically by including a chromogen which changes color on reduction by tetrahydrofolate. Such indicator chromogens are well known in the art and include tetrazolium dyes and ferric complexes of 2,2 bipyridine or 1,10 phenanthroline. Further details concerning specific binding assays employing enzyme inhibitor labels such as methrotrexate may be found in U.S. Pat. No. 4,134,792, assigned to the present assignee, and incorporated herein by reference. The reagent means of the present invention comprises all of the essential chemical elements required to conduct a desired assay method encompassed by the present invention. The reagent means is presented in a commercially packaged form, as a composition or admixture where the compatability of the reagents will allow, in a test device configuration, or as a test kit, i.e., a packaged combination of one or more containers holding the necessary reagents. Accordingly, reagent means for the determination of an iodothyronine comprises a methotrexate labeled conjugate of the present invention, a binding protein, e.g., antibody or fragment thereof, for the iodothyronine under assay, dihydrofolate reductase, and the indicator as described previously.Likewise, for the determination of iodothyronine uptake, the reagent means comprises the labeled conjugate, dihydrofolate reductase, and the indicator. Of course, the reagent means can include other materials as are known in the art and which may be desirable from a commercial and user standpoint, such as buffers, diluents, standards, and so forth. Also preferred is a test device comprising reagent means of the present invention and a solid carrier member incorporated with the reagent composition. The various forms of such test device are described in U.S. Patent ApplicationSerial No. 202,378, filed October 30, 1980, which is incorporated herein by reference. The present invention will now be illustrated, but is not intended to be limited, by the following examples. EXAMPLE 1A. Preparation of Labeled Conjugate Methotrexate Aminobutylthyroxine Conjugate The reaction sequence for the preparation of this labeled conjugate is shown in Diagram A in Figures 1 and la of the drawings. 4 N Trifluoroacetyl aminobutyraldehyde Diethylacetal 2 , n 4. To a mixture of 17.74 grams g of 90 4 aminobutyraldehyde diethylacetal 1 0.1 moles mol and 22.1 milliliters ml triethylamine 0.16 mol in 100 ml dry ethanol at 0 C under argon gas was added dropwise 21.3 g ethyl trifluoroacetate 0.16 mol over 15 minutes. The mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature overnight. The reaction volume was concentrated in vacuo bath temperature 400C , dissolved in ether, and washed with water and brine. Drying Na2SO4 , filtration, and evaporation of solvent in vacuo gave 25.3 g of brown oil. Fractional distillation 104 105 C 0.01 mm provided the product 2 , n 4, as a colorless oil 96, , 24.6 g . Analysis Calculated for C10H18NF3O39MW 257.26 C, 46.7 H, 6.8 N, 5.5 Found C,46.3 H, 7.0 N, 5.3. PMR 60 mHz, CDC13 61.2 t,J 7Hz,6H 4.3 m,4H 3.2 4.0 m,6H 4.52 t,J 5Hz,lH 7.3 bs,lH . 1 IR neat 1705 cm N 4 N Trifluoroacetyl aminobutyl thyroxine Ethyl Ester 4 , n 4, ssl ss2 I 4 N Trifluoroacetyl aminobutyraldehyde diethylacetal 2 , n 4, 3.097 g, 12 millimoles mmol was stirred in a 36 ml mixture of tetrahydrofuran acetic acid water 1 1 1 for 48 hours under argon gas. The mixture was evaporated in vacuo to an oil which was added to 10.09 g 12 mmol thyroxine ethyl ester hydrochloride o , ssl ss2 I, in 275 ml absolute ethanol under argon gas.Sodium cyanoborohydride 422 milligrams mg , 6.8 mmol was added to the mixture, which was allowed to stir 24 hours at room temperature. The mixture was filtered and concentrated in vacuo to a foam, which was dissolved in 40 ml 20 ethyl acetate dichloromethane, filtered, and allowed to stand overnight. White crystals of product appeared which were collected, washed with dichloromethane, and dried to yield 4.32 g 378 , mp 202 2040C. Analysis Calculated for C23H22N2F3I4O5.2H2O C, 27.40 H, 2.70 N, 2.78 Found C, 27.36 H, 2.45 N, 2.77 PMR 60 mHz, DMSO d6 61.13 t,J 3Hz, 3H 1.67 m,4H 2.7 3.9 m,6H 4.2 m superimposed q, J 7Hz,3H 7.12 s,2H , 7.92 s,2H 9.65 m,3H . IR KC1 1720, 1745 cm 1. The mother liquor was concentrated in vacuo, dissolved in 10 ml ethyl acetate, and chromatographed on a Waters Prep 500 commat HPLC Waters Associates, Inc.,Milford, MA using one Prep Pak 500 5.7 ID x 30 cm silica cartridge Waters Associates, Inc., Milford, MA as a stationary phase and 20 ethyl acetate dichloromethane as the mobile phase. First eluted from the column was an oil which was precipitated as a white powder 1.1 g from dichloromethane hexane, mp 64 680C decomposed. It was identified as N,N bis 4 N trifluoroacetyl aminobutyl thyroxine ethyl ester on the basis of the following analytical data 7 yield . Analysis Calculated for C29H31N3F6I406 H2O MW 1157.24 C, 30.10 H, 2.87 N, 3.63 Found C, 30.01 H, 2.45 N, 4.13 PMR 60 mHz, DMSO d6 61.15 m p bt, J 7Hz,7H 1.65 m,4H 2.9 m,3H 3.2 m,4H 3.7 m,3H 4.1 m q, J 7Hz, 3H 5.73 m,2H 7.13 s,2H 7.88 s,2H 9.4 m,1H . IR KC1 1720 cm 1. Next obtained from the column was an oil, which was precipitated as 3.886 g of a white powder from dichloromethane hexane. Spectral data showed it to be identical with the initially formed crystals. The total yield of product 4 , n 4, ss1 ss2 I, was 8.23 g 71 , mp 105 1060. Analysis Calculated for C23H23N205I4F3 MW 972.09 C, 28.41 H, 2.39 N, 2.88 Found C, 28.33 H, 2.40 N, 2.78N 4 Aminobutyl thyroxine Ethyl Ester Bishydrochloride 5 , n 4, ss1 ss2 I. N 4 N Trifluoroacethyl aminobutyl thyroxine ethyl ester 4 , n 4, ss1 ss2 I. 2.5 g, 2.6 mmol was dissolved in 100 ml anhydrous ethanol. The solution was heated to reflux while treated with gaseous hydrochloric acid for 7 hours. The mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the residue twice precipitated from ethanol ether to give 2.115 g of an off white powder 798 yield which analyzed as the bishydrochloride diethanolate 5 , n 4, ss1 ss2 I. Analysis Calculated for C21H24N2I4O4.2HCl 2 C2H20 MW 1041.13 C, 28.84 H, 3.68 N, 2.69 Found C, 29.32 H, 3.28 N, 2.91 PMR 90 mHz, DMSO d6 61.13 t, J 7Hz 1.74 m 3.29 m 3.66 m 4.57 m 7.07 s 7.88 s 8.70 m 10.0 m 10.6 m . IR KC1 1735, 2970 cm Methotrexate aminobutylthyroxine Conjugate 6 , n 4, B 82 I To 232 mg methotrexate 0.51 mmol and 70 micro liters ul triethylamine 0.51 mmol in 8 ml dimethylformamide under argon gas and subdued light at 100C was added 68.4 ul isobutyl chloroformate 0.53 mmol . The mixture was stirred 1 hour at 100C and 2 hours at room temperature. The reaction mixture was filtered into a second flask containing 474 mg N 4 aminobutyl thyroxine ethyl ester bishydrochloride bisethanolate 5 , n 4, Sl ss2 I, 0.05 mmol and 210 Frl triethylamine 1.52 mmol in 5 ml dimethylformamide. The mixture was allowed to stir overnight in subdued light under argon gas.The mixture was preadsorbed onto a small amount of SilicarCC 7 silicic acid Mallindrodt, Paris, KY and applied to the top of a 2.5 x 60 cm column of Silicar CC 7 packed with a 600 200 1 mixture of dichloromethane, methanol, and triethylamine. Elution of the column with this mixture gave 0.5 g of crude product which was precipitated from methanol and a 1 1 v v mixture of ether and petroleum ether. Drying of the sample at 55 C 0.1 mm gave 418 mg of an amorphous orange red powder 64 yield , mp 1520, decomposed. Analysis Calculated for C41H44NloI408 MW 1312.51 C, 37.52 H. 3.38 N. 10.67 Found C, 37.73 H, 3.62 N, 10.32 PMR 60 mHz, DMSO d6 6 1.12 t,J 7Hz, 3H 1.38 m,6H 2.13 m,4H 2.5 3.6 m,7H, containing s, 3.23 6 4.07 q,J 7Hz,2H 4.12 m,lH 5.92 m,3H 6.67 m,lH 6.88 m,lH 6.99 m,lH 7.13 s,2H 7.77 m,6H 7.88 s,2H 8.58 s,lH . IR KC1 3410, 1720, 1600 1670, 1530 1560, 1500, 1430 1450 cm 1. The previously obtained powder 348 mg, 0.27 mmol was dissolved in 4 ml methanol under argon gas and subdued light and was treated with 2 ml 1 N sodium hydroxide. The sample was stirred at 30 C for 2 hours.The product was precipitated by addition of acetic acid, filtered, washed with water, and dried overnight 550C, 0.1 mm . An amorphous yellow powder was obtained 249 mg, 69 . Thin layer chromatography silicon dioxide eluted with the lower phase of a 1 1 1 chloroform methanol ammonium hydroxide mixture revealed the product 6 , n 4, ss 2 I, Rf 0.42 accompanied by approximately 5 of the coupling product of aminobutylthyroxine with the a glutamoyl carboxyl Rf 0.46 of methotrexate. Analysis Calculated for C39H40NloI408 3H2O MW 1338.51 C, 35.00 H, 3.46 N, 10.46 Found C, 35.34 H, 3.57 N, 9.90 PMR 90 mHz, DMSO d6 61.43 m,6H 2.09 m,4H 2.69 m,2H 2.95 m,3H 3.15 s,3H 3.40 m,lH 4.40 m,3H 4.77 bs,3H 5.47 m,lH 6.57 bs,2H 6.77 s,lH 6.87 s,lH 7.7 m,6H 7.83 s,2H 8.38 m,lH 8.56 s , lH . IR KC1 3400, 1625, 1600 cm 1. The above described synthesis of the methotrexateaminobutylthyroxine conjugate 6 , n 4, ss 2 I, can be modified to yield derivatives wherein n 2 12 and wherein an iodothyronine other than thyroxine is incorporated into the conjugate as follows. To prepare conjugates wherein n 2 12, the starting material 4 aminobutyraldehyde diethylacetal is replaced with the appropriate aminoalkanal. To prepare conjugates wherein another iodothyronine is incorporated into the conjugate, the starting material thyroxine ethyl ester 3 , ssl 62 I, is replaced with the appropriate iodothyronine ethyl ester.B. Dihydrofolate Reductase Assay The standard assay consisted of 0.10 mM dihydrofolate DHF , 0.10 mM NADPH, 0.001 unit bovine liver dihydrofolate reductase Sigma Chemical Co., St. Louis,MO and 0.1 M sodium phosphate pH 6.0 in a final volume of 2.0 ml. The reaction mixture without dihydrofolate was incubated at 370C for 5 minutes, then the reaction was initiated by adding dihydrofolate, and an initial absorbance at 340 nm was recorded with a Gilford 250 spectrophotometer Gilford Instrument Laboratories,Oberlin, OH . The reaction was allowed to proceed for 20 minutes at 370C and then a final reading was recorded. The enzyme activity was expressed as the change in absorbance AA at 340 nanometers nm that occurred during the 20 minute min reaction. C. Inhibition of Dihydrofolate Reductase by the Labeled Conjugate Various concentrations of methotrexateaminobutylthroxine conjugate were incubated with the standard concentrations of NADPH, dihydrofolate reductase and buffer for 5 minutes at 370C. The reaction was initiated as discussed above with the addition of dihydrofolate. The results presented in Table 1 below show that the methotrexate aminobutylthyroxine was an effective inhibitor of dihydrofolate reductase. TABLE 1Methotrexate0.1M Sodium Aminobutyl DihydrofolatePhosphate Buffer Thyroxine NADPH Reductase Dihydrofolate A340 20 Min pH 6.5 0.16 M 2.1 mM 0.04 U ml 3.5 mM 1 1 1 1 1 1800 95 50 55 0.645 1775 25 95 50 55 0.566 1750 50 95 50 55 0.495 1700 100 95 50 55 0.433 1600 200 95 50 55 0.306 D. Titration of Antibody to Thyroxine with the Labeled Conjugate Various concentrations of antibody to thyroxine and the standard concentrations of NADPH, 6 nM methotrexate aminobutylthyroxine and buffers were incubated for 2 minutes at room temperature. Dihydrofolate reductase was then added, and the incubation was continued for 5 minutes at 370C. The enzyme catalyzed reaction was initiated by addition of dihydrofolate and monitored as described above.The results inTable 2 below show that the enzyme activity increased as the antibody level increased. TABLE 2Antibody Methotrexate0.1M Sodium to Aminobutyl DihydrofolatePhosphate Buffer Thyroxine Thyroxine NADPH Reductase Dihydrofolate A340 20 Min pH 6.5 1 9 dilution 0.16 M 1.9 mM 0.04 U ml 3.3 mM 1 1 1 1 1 1 1785 105 50 60 0.691 1710 75 105 50 60 0.499 1700 10 75 105 50 60 0.579 1690 20 75 105 50 60 0.602 1670 40 75 105 50 60 0.664 1630 80 75 105 50 60 0.656 1550 160 75 105 50 60 0.667 E. Competitive Binding Assay for Thyroxine The standard concentrations of NADPH, buffer, antibody to thyroxine and various concentrations of thyroxine were incubated at room remperature for a minimum of 30 seconds. Then 100 pl of 0.16 pM methotrexate aminobutylthyroxine was added and the mixture was incubated at room temperature for 2 minutes.Following the second incubation, dihydrofolate reductase was added and the mixture was incubated an additional 5 minutes at 370C. The reaction was initiated and monitored in the usual manner. The results in Table 3 below show that the enzyme activity decreased as the thyroxine level increased. TABLE 3Antibody Methotrexate0.1 Sodium to Aminobutyl Dihydrofolate DihydroPhosphate Buffer Thyroxine Thyroxine Thyroxine NADPH Reductase folate A340 pH 6.5 1 x 10 7 M 1 4 Dil 0.16 M 2.1 mM 0.04 U ml 3.5 mM 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 20 Min 1800 95 50 55 0.620 1700 100 95 50 55 0.458 1670 30 100 95 50 55 0.645 1650 20 30 100 95 50 55 0.637 1630 40 30 100 95 50 55 0.610 1590 80 30 100 95 50 55 0.595 1550 120 30 100 95 50 55 0.595 1510 160 30 100 95 50 55 0.585 1470 200 30 100 95 50 55 0.584 Thus, an assay was provided for determining thyroxine in a liquid sample. EXAMPLE 2A. Preparation of Labeled Conjugate Methotrexate thyroxine Conjugate The reaction sequence for the preparation of this labeled conjugate is shown in Diagram B in Figure 2 of the drawings. A solution of 464 mg 1 mmol of methotrexate in 15 ml of dry dimethylformamide DMF was cooled to lO0C while stirring under argon. To this was added 0.14 ml 1 mmol of triethylamine and 136 mg 1 mmol of isobutyl chloroformate. After stirring for 1 hour at this temperature, 841 mg 1 mmol of the hydrochloride salt of thyroxine ethyl ester was added.Stirring was continued at 100C for 2 hours, then at room temperature overnight. Ten grams of silica gel was added and the solvent removed under high vacuum.The impregnated adsorbent was placed atop a column of 100 g of silica gel made up in absolute ethanol.The column was eluted with 1 liter of ethanol and the eluate discarded. It was then eluted with a gradient of 2 liters of absolute ethanol to 2 liters of 9 1 v v ethanol 1M aqueous triethylammonium bicarbonate.Twenty ml fractions were collected. Fractions 81 to 140 were combined and evaporated to give 500 mg of the methotrexate thyroxine ethyl ester conjugate as a yellow powder which was not further characterized. It was added to a mixture of 5 ml water, 2 ml methanol, and 80 mg 5 equivalents of sodium hydroxide. After stirring overnight at room temperature solvent was removed in vacua, the residue taken taken up in 10 ml water, and filtered through celite.The filtrate was acidified with 0.6 ml of glacial acetic acid. A yellow precipitate formed which was filtered, washed with water, and dried at 500C for 2 hours under vacuum. When dry this amounted to 280 mg 23 yield of the thyroxine methotrexate conjugate 7 , ss1 ss2 I, as an amorphous yellow powder. Analysis Calculated for C35H30N9I4O8 C, 34.68 H, 2.49 N, 10.40. Found C, 34.53 H, 2.76 N, 10.41. UV Spectrum H2O, pH 5.5 max 303 nm max 24.100 . The above described synthesis of the methotrexatethyroxine conjugate 7 , ssl ss2 Iy can be modified to prepare conjugates for other iodothyronines by replacing the starting material thyroxine ethyl ester with the appropriate iodothyronine ethyl ester. B. Titration of Antibody to Thyroxine with the Labeled Conjugate Thyroxine free serum was prepared by treatment of pooled human serum with charcoal Larsen et aZ, J. CZin. Endocrinol. Metab. 37 177 1973 . All reagents except thyroxine free serum or as otherwise indicated below were prepared in 0.1 M sodium phosphate buffer, pH 6.5, containing 0.3 M potassium chloride and 0.005 sodium azide. Reagent 1 Mixture of 6.5 ml of 10 mM 8 anilinonaphthalene sulfonic acid and 10 ml of thyroxine free serum. Reagent 2 Mixture of 1.0 ml of bovine liver dihydrofolate reductase 0.152 units ml and 1.0 ml of 11 mM thiazoyl blue. Reagent 3 0.114 mM dihydrofolate in 0.085 M sodium phosphate buffer, pH 6.2, 0.255 mM potassium chloride, and 0.043 sodium azide. Reagent 4 Rabbit antibody to thyroxine diluted 10 fold in buffer. Reagent 5 175 mM methotrexate thyroxine conjugate Part A above in 10 mM sodium carbonate buffer, pH 9.5. Reagent 6 10 mM NADPH in 10 mM sodium carbonate buffer, pH 9.5. Various amounts of Reagent 4 indicated in Table 4 below were mixed with 40 pl of Reagent 5, 90 pl ofReagent 6, and sufficient buffer to make a final volume of 625 pl. Then 175 pl of Reagent 1 was added to each followed by 250 pl of buffer and the incubation was continued. After 10 minutes from the addition ofReagent 3, the absorbance at 560 nm was recorded for each reaction mixture and shown in Table 4. TABLE 4 Antibody Solution Average Absorbance Reagent 4 1 560 nm 0.478 20 0.538 40 0.581 80 0.632 160 0.689 320 0.737C. Competitive Binding Assay for Thyroxine A series of reaction mixtures were set up in cuvettes by the following additions 1. 250 1 of buffer plus 100 pl of a serum standard containing a known concentration of thyroxine. 2. 250 p1 of buffer plus 100 p1 of 8.1 mM 8 anilinonaphthalene sulfonate containing 8.7 p1 of thyroxine antibody. 3 250 p1 of buffer plus 100 pl of 9 mM NADPH in 10 mM sodium carbonate buffer, pH 9.5. 4. 250 p1 of buffer plus 100 1 of 5.4 mM thiazoyl blue containing 0.075 units ml of dihydrofolate reductase. 5. 250 pl of buffer plus 100 pl of 0.11 mM dihydrofolate. After step 4, the reactions were incubated at 370C for 10 minutes. Then after step 5, the incubation was continued for 20 minutes and the absorbance read at 560 nm. The results were as follows TABLE 5 Thyroxine Concentration Absorbance Ug dl 560 nm 0 0.603 1.0 0.585 2.5 0.595 5.0 0.582 15.2 0.545 30.3 0.527 Thus, an assay was provided for determining thyroxine in a liquid sample.