# Borate solution soluble polyvinyl alcohol films.

## Abstract
Conventional polyvinyl alcohol envelopes will not readi ly dissolve in wash water which has a significant borate concentration and a pH frequently encountered in wash liquors. Herein, such films are rendered sufficiently soluble in such solutions. In the preferred embodiment this is done by utilizing a polyvinyl alcohol film wherein at least a portion of the polyvinyl alcohol has a number average molecular weight below about 50,000, or a polyvinyl alcohol film containing a polyhydroxy compound having a binding constant with borate of at least about 800M ², or utilizing a polyvinyl alcohol film having an acid having an acid dissociation constant of 10 ⁹ M or larger or a polyvinyl alcohol film containing mixtures thereof.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A polyvinyl alcohol film which is rapidly soluble in an aqueous solution having a borate concentration of about 1.7 x 10 M and a pH of about 10.7, the film comprising one of the following compositions a a polyvinyl alcohol film characterized by having a number average molecular weight of no more than about 40,000 b a polyvinyl alcohol film containing a polyhydroxy compound, PHC, that has a binding constant, K2, with borate, in aqueous solution at 250C, that is greater than about dOOM , K2 being defined as equal to Complex wherein borate PHC Z Complex , borate , and PHC are the molar concentrations of the respective constituents c a polyvinyl alcohol film containing an acid having an acid dissociation constant, in water at 250C, greater than about l09M and d mixtures thereof the composition being selected such that 50 or more, by volume, of a 1.5cm x 1.5cm x 0.0038cm piece of said film, when agitated in a volume of 750cc of a solution having a borate concentration of 1.7 x 10 3M and having a pH of 10.7 in a cylindrical container 9.5cm in diameter, using an oblong magnetic stirring bar about lem x 5cm at a speed sufficient to cause a vortex to extend about 20 of the way downwardly from a top surface of the solution, dissolves or disperses in 300 seconds at 37.50C. 2. A film as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said polyhydroxy compound is fructose, sorbitol, mannitol, sorbose, catechol, pentaerythritol, mesoerythritol or a mixture of two or more thereof. 3. A film as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein said acid is polyacrylic acid, citric acid, succinic acid, tartaric acid, potassium hydrogen, phthalate, sodium dihydrogen phosphate, adipic acid, cysteine, glutamic acid, benzoic acid, oxalic acid or a mixture of two or more thereof. 4. A film as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 3, wherein said film has a number average molecular weight of about 10,000 and said polyhydroxy compound is mannitol. 5. A laundry additive combination, comprising a laundry additive and a sealed envelope containing said additive, said envelope being formed of a polyvinyl alcohol film, said film incorporating means for solubilizing said envelope in an aqueous solution having a borate concentration of about 1.7 x 1O 3 and a pH of about 10.7 to an extent such that 50 or more, by volume, of a 1.5cm x 1.5cm x 0.0038cm piece of said film, when agitated in a volume of 750cc of said solution, in a cylindrical container 9.5cm in diameter, using an oblong magnetic stirring bar about lem x 5cm at a speed sufficient to cause a vortex to extend about 20 of the way downwardly from a top surface of the solution, dissolves or disperses in 300 seconds at 37.50C. 6. A laundry additive combination as claimed inClaim 5, wherein said means incorporated in said film comprises one or more of the following polyhydroxy compounds, namely, fructose, sorbitol, mannitol, sorbose, catechol, pentaerythritol and meso erythritol. 7. A laundry additive combination as claimed inClaim 5, wherein said means incorporated in said film comprises one or more of the following acids, namely, polyacrylic acid, citric acid, succinic acid, tartaric acid, potassium hydrogeh phthalate, sodium dihydrogen phosphate, adipic acid, cysteine, glutamic acid, benzoic acid and oxalic acid. 8. A laundry additive combination as set forth inClaim 5, wherein said means comprises said film having a number average molecular weight of about 10,000 and including mannitol in said film.

## Description
Borate Solution Soluble Polyvinyl Alcohol Films The invention relates to polyvinyl alcohol films which are soluble in borate containing solutions and more particularly to such films in the form of envelopes containing laundry additives such as detergents and the like. Several film materials are available which are water soluble and which can be formed into envelopes in which premeasured amounts of laundry additives can be sealed. Methyl cellulose, polyethylene oxide and polyvinyl alcohol are particularly useful film materials of this nature.Methyl cellulose films generally do not have sufficient solubility at higher water temperatures.Polyethylene oxide films tend to absorb moisture too readily and become tacky. Polyvinyl alcohol films do not have the problems of methyl cellulose or polyethylene oxide films. However, when these films are placed in solutions containing borate at levels and pHs frequently encountered in laundry applications, the rate of solubility of such films is severely reduced. Yet, borate is often present in clothes washing liquors and the like, since one of the most widely used bleaching compositions is principally sodium perborate, which forms borate ions in solution. Other borate sources such as borax, are also often used as laundry additives. The present invention is directed to overcoming the problem of slow dissolution rates of polyvinyl alcohol films in borate containing solutions as set forth above. In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention, a polyvinyl alcohol film is provided which is readily soluble in borate containing solutions. The film comprises a composition selected from the group consisting of a a polyvinyl alcohol film having a number average molecular weight of no more than about 50,000 b a polyvinyl alcohol film containing a polyhydroxy compound PHC that has a binding constant, K2, with borate, in aqueous solution, K2 being defined as equal to Complex , that is greater borate PHC 2 than about 800M 2 at 250 C c a polyvinyl alcohol film containing an acid having an acid dissociation constant, in water at 250 C, greater than about 10 9M and d mixtures thereof, the composition being selected such that 50 or more, by volume, of a 1.5cm x 1.5cm x 0.0038cm piece of said film, when agitated in a volume of 750 cc of a solution having a borate concentration of about 1.7 x 10 3M and having a pH of about 10.7 in a cylindrical container 9.5cm in diameter using an oblong magnetic stirring bar about lem x 5cm at a speed sufficient to cause a vortex to extend about 20 of the way downwardly from a top surface of the solution, substantially dissolves or disperses, as determined by visual evaluation, in 300 seconds at 37.50C. In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention a laundry additive combination is provided. The laundry additive combination includes the laundry additive and a sealed envelope containing that additive. The envelope is formed of a polyvinyl alcohol film, which film incorporates means for solubilizing the envelope sufficiently so that a piece of the film will dissolve when tested as previously set forth. The present invention thus solves the problem of providing polyvinyl alcohol films which will rapidly dissolve in solutions which contain borate at levels and pHs normally encountered in laundry applications. When the term polyvinyl alcohol is used herein this term is meant to include the polyvinyl alcohol itself, derivatives thereof, and its water soluble copolymers. The polyvinyl alcohol resins described herein are generally produced by the hydrolysis of polyvinyl acetate and generally have a degree of hydrolysis between about 70 and about 98 . It is well known that envelopes made of polyvinyl alcohol films can be used to enclose premeasured amounts of laundry additives such as detergents, bleaches, brighteners, builders, fabric softeners, and the like. Such polyvinyl alcohol films are generally formed from polyvinyl alcohol resins of a desired degree of hydrolysis. In practice, the polyvinyl alcohol is dissolved in water, with heating, and one or another conventional plasticizers, such as, for example, polyethylene glycol having a molecular weight of 200 to 600, release agents, and an anti blocking agent, if desired, are also dissolved in the same solution.Thereafter, the solution is simply cast and the water evaporated to produce a film with the desired physical properties. The conventional polyvinyl alcohol films of the prior art have very adequate solubility in water. However, when there is a significant borate concentration in the water and when the pH is that frequently encountered in washing liquors, such polyvinyl alcohol films will not dissolve sufficiently readily to deliver a laundry additive to the solution early in the wash cycle. An objective test, which simulates results found for top loading automatic washing machines, has been developed for determining when a polyvinyl alcohol film will have sufficient solubility in borate containing solutions so as to be readily soluble under normal laundry conditions. Acceptable solubility rate is demonstrated when at least 50 by volume of a 1.5cm x 1.5cm x 0.0038cm sample of the film substantially dissolves or disperses within 300 seconds, as determined by visual evaluation, in a mildly agitated aqueous solution having a borate concentration of 1.7 x 10 M and having a pH of about 10.7 at a temperature of 37.50C.Mild agitation is defined, for the purposes of the test, as agitation in a volume of 750cc of the solution in a cylindrical container 9.5cm in diameter using an oblong magnetic stirring rod about lcm x 5cm at a speed sufficient to cause a vortex to extend about 20 of the way downwardly from the surface of the solution. It has been discovered that when the film is any one of three compositions, or any mixture of such compositions in sufficient quantities, a film results which satisfies the above set out test and is acceptable for laundry use. The first composition which satisfies the test is a polyvinyl alcohol film produced from polyvinyl alcohol resins characterized by having a number average molecular weight below about 50,000, more preferably below about 25,000, and still more preferably of about 10,000. When this first composition is utilized without any of the second or third compositions set out below, at least about 50 of the polyvinyl alcohol resin on which the film is based must consist of a polyvinyl alcohol of such an average molecular weight, more preferably at least about 80 and still more preferably about 100 .Somewhat unexpectedly, such low molecular weight polyvinyl alcohol resins produce films of sufficient strength, stability in humid weather, and integrity for storage and laundry use. A second composition which will satisfy the above test, either by itself or in combination with the first constituent or the third constituent which will be set out below, or with both the first and third constituents, is a polyvinyl alcohol film which contains a polyhydroxy compound PHC which has a binding constant with borate in aqueous solutions K2 as defined by the equationR2 Complex , that is greater than borate PHC about 800 M 2 at 25cC the constituents concentrations being in moles per liter.Particularly useful polyhydroxy compounds are levulose fructose , mannitol, catechol, sorbitol, sorbose, pentaerythritol and meso erythritol. In general, the higher the binding constant, the more effective the polyhydroxy compound in providing the desired solubility characteristics. It is somewhat surprising that significant quantities of the polyhydroxy compound can be incorporated into the polyvinyl alcohol without rendering envelopes made from the film unfit for long term storage and laundry use. If the polyhydroxy compound is utilized by itself to solubilize the polyvinyl alcohol film, it is preferably present in an amount of at least about 10 , by weight, of the polyvinyl alcohol film, the effective amount depending on the identity of the polyhydroxy compound. On the other hand, lesser amounts of the polyhydroxy compound can be utilized if the film includes a polyvinyl alcohol having a relatively lower molecular weight, for example, a number average molecular weight below about 50,000, or if the film includes an acid as will be set out below. A third polyvinyl alcohol film having the desired characteristics is one which contains an organic, inorganic or polymeric acid having an acid dissociation constant, in water at 250C, greater than than about 10 M and preferably greater than about 10 M. Polyacrylic acids with average molecular weights in the range from about 3000 to about 150,000 are very useful acids for such purposes.Other acids are also useful, for example, citric acid, succinic acid, tartaric acid, potassium hydrogen phthalate, sodium dihydrogen phosphate, adipic acid, cysteine, glutamic acid, benzoic acid and oxalic acid. It should be noted that when the acid is utilized by itself, it is preferred that it be in a concentration of at least about 10 , by weight, based on the weight of the polyvinyl alcohol film. The amount of acid can be reduced if some polyhydroxy compound, as set out above, is present and or if the film includes polyvinyl alcohol having a number average molecular weight below about 50,000 and more preferably below about 25,000. It is essential, in any case, that the polyvinyl alcohol film, in accordance with the present invention, be capable of satisfying the objective test of solubility in a borate containing solution and at a pH as set out above. when envelopes are made from the films, such films will generally be about 1.5 mils thick.This provides an envelope of sufficient strength which will dissolve sufficiently quickly in normal laundry use. However, film thicknesses of from about 1.0 to about 3.5 mils are practical for the application described herein. It should be noted that not only may detergents be enclosed in envelopes in accordance with the present invention, but also builders, bleaches, brighteners, fabric softeners, antisoiling polymers and other laundry additives may be so enclosed, provided they do not dissolve or otherwise interact deleteriously with the film material. The invention will be better understood by reference to the following examples Examples 1 5 20.lg of polyvinyl alcohol number average molecular weight 10,000. 88 hydrolyzed was added slowly with mixing to 8.6g of polyethylene glycol average molecular weight r 200 and 86.4g of distilled water. After the polyvinyl alcohol was dispersed, the dispersion was heated for approximately two hours at 600C to completely dissolve the polyvinyl alcohol. The solution was cooled to 230 C, stirred slowly to remove air bubbles and cast on a glass plate using a film applicator with an 0.051cm clearance. The resulting film was dried at room temperature for 1 2 hours, dried further at 37.50C for 2 hours and allowed to equilibrate to room temperature conditions 230C, 50 relative humidity before being removed from the glass plate for testing. This procedure yielded a film 0.0038cm thick containing approximately 66 polyvinyl alcohol, 28 polyethylene glycol and 6 water.Using the evaluation procedure as set out above, 95 of the film dissolved in 150 seconds. In this procedure borax was added as the source of borate and sodium carbonate and sodium bicarbonate were used to maintain the pH at 10.7. Using a similar procedure, additional films 0.0038cm in thickness with different number average molecular weight polyvinyl alcohol resins were prepared and evaluated and the results are summarized in Table I. These examples demonstrated that a polyvinyl alcohol resin of a number average molecular weight of about 50,000 or less is necessary to provide a film that meets desired solubility criteria in the absence of any polyhydroxy compound or acid. The 60 dissolved dispersed result at 300 second for 50,000 molecular weight polyvinyl alcohol is somewhat low but is quite sufficient for normal laundry use. Examples 6 15 12.9g of polyvinyl alcohol average molecular weight 96,000, 88 hydrolyzed was added slowly with mixing to 0.4g of polyethylene glycol TABLE IPolyvinyl Alcohol film dissolved dispersedExample Number Average MW Hydrolysis 30 sec. 150 sec. 300 sec.1 10,000 88 95 95 95 2 26,000 88 85 95 95 3 49,000 88 10 10 60 4 78,000 88 10 10 10 5 96,000 88 10 10 10 average molecular weight 200 and 81.69 of distilled water. After the polyvinyl alcohol was dispersed, the dispersion was heated for approximately two hours at 600C to completely dissolve the polyvinyl alcohol. The solution was cooled to approximately 300C and a slurry of 5.lg of fructose in 15g of distilled water was added with mixing. The viscous mixture was stirred for 16 hours at 230C to insure complete mixing and to remove any air bubbles. It was then cast on a glass plate using a film applicator with an 0.051cm clearance. The resulting film was dried at room temperature for 1 2 hours, dried further at 37.50C for 2 hours and allowed to equilibrate to room temperature conditions 230 C, 50 relative humidity before being removed from the glass plate for testing. This procedure yielded a film 0.0038cm thick containing approximately 66 polyvinyl alcohol number average molecular weight 96,000, 88 hydrolyzed , 2 polyethylene glycol number average molecular weight 200 , 26 fructose and 6 water. Using the evaluation procedure as set out above, 70 of the film dissolved in 300 seconds. Using a similar procedure, additional films of a thickness of approximately 0.0038cm with different polyhydroxy compounds at levels of approximately 26 by weight were prepared and evaluated. The polyvinyl alcohol used in these examples was 88 hydrolyzed and had a number average molecular weight of approximately 96,000. Table II presents the results of testing such films. TABLE IIExample Polyhydroxy Compound K2 film dissolved dispersed 30 sec. 150 sec. 300 sec.5 none 10 10 10 6 fructose 98,500 25 50 70 7 mannitol 88,500 80 90 95 8 catechol 14,200 40 50 70 9 pentaerythritol 1,110 40 50 70 10 glucose 770 10 10 15 11 arabinose 675 10 10 10 12 galactose 298 10 10 10 13 sorbitol not known 40 60 80 14 sorbose not known 30 50 75 15 meso erythritol not known 10 10 50 These examples demonstrate that polyhydroxy compounds should have K2 values greater than about 800M 2 to provide a film that meets desired solubility criteria. Furthermore, a polyvinyl alcohol film of number average molecular weight greater than 50,000 has been shown to be rapidly soluble due to the inclusion of these polyhydroxy compounds having K2 greater than 800.Thus, polyvinyl alcohol resins of as much as 200,000 number average molecular weight are expected to be rendered rapidly soluble by the correct choice of polyhydroxy compounds and its level in the film. Examples 16 27 12.9g of polyvinyl alcohol number average molecular weight 96,000, 88 hydrolyzed was added slowly with mixing to 0.99 of polyethylene glycol average molecular weight 200 , 4.6g of polyacrylic acid average molecular weight 5,000 and 96.6g of deionized water. After the polyvinyl alcohol was dispersed, the dispersion was heated for approximately two hours at 600C to dissolve the polyvinyl alcohol. The solution was cooled at 230 C, stirred slowly to remove air bubbles and cast on a glass plate using a film applicator with an 0.051cm clearance.The resulting film was dried at room temperature for 1 2 hours, dried further at 37.50C for 2 hours and allowed to equilibrate at room temperature conditions 230C, 50 relative humidity before being removed from the glass plate for testing. This procedure yielded a film 0.0038cm thick containing approximately 66 polyvinyl alcohol, 24 polyacrylic acid, 5 polyethylene glycol and 5 water. Using the evaluation procedure as set out above, 95 of the film dissolved in 150 seconds. Using a similar procedure additional films, approximately 0.0038cm thick, containing other acids at levels of approximately 24 by weight were prepared and evaluated. These films contained polyvinyl alcohol, 88 hydrolyzed, and with a number average molecular weight of approximately 96,000.The results are summarized in Table III. These examples demonstrate that acids must have have K a values greater than 10 M to provide a film that meets desired solubility criteria. Furthermore, a polyvinyl alcohol film of number average molecular weight greater than 50,000 has been shown to be rendered rapidly soluble due to the inclusion of these acidic components having K 10 9. Thus films based on polyvinyl alcohol resins of as much as 200,000 number average molecular weight are expected to be rapidly soluble by the correct choice of acidic compound and its level in the film. Example 28 Using procedures similar to those described in the previous examples, a film combining two of the embodiments presented previously herein was made and evaluated. The procedure yielded a film approximately 0.0038cm thick with a composition of approximately 81 polyvinyl alcohol 88 hydrolyzed, number average molecular weight approximately 25,000 , 14 mannitol and 5 water. This film TABLE IIIExample Acid Ka M film dissolved dispersed 30 sec. 150 sec. 300 sec.16 polyacrylic 10 5 90 95 95 17 oxalic 6 x 10 2, 6 x 10 5 10 90 95 18 glutamic 7 x 10 3, 5 x 10 5 30 40 80 19 tartaric 1 x 10 3, 5 x 10 5 40 60 85 20 citric 8 x 10 4, 1.8 x 10 5, 4 x 10 6 60 75 90 21 succinic 7 x 10 5, 2 x 10 6 40 40 70 22 benzoic 6 x 10 5 15 25 70 23 adipic 4 x 10 5 60 70 95 24 potassium 3 x 10 6 25 40 70 hydrogen phthalate 25 sodium 6 x 10 8 30 45 70 dihydrogen phosphate 26 cysteine 7 x 10 9 20 30 50 27 sodium 10 9 10 10 10 tartrate combines the use of a polyvinyl alcohol resin with a number average molecular weight less than 50,000 and a polyhydroxy compound with a binding constant with borate that is greater than 800M 2.The film was evaluated using the procedures set forth previously and it was found that 95 of the film by volume, dissolved or dispersed, as determined by visual examination, in 30 seconds under the test conditions set forth previously. This represents an improvement over either embodiment alone Examples 2 and 7 and although both previous examples set forth films that met solubility criteria, this example indicates that combinations of the embodiments yield films with still better solubility characteristics. Better solubility characteristics can become important when the laundry additive combination comprising a laundry additive and an envelope made from a film as set forth herein is used in extreme or misuse conditions. For example, it is not uncommon for the consumer to use more than the recommended amount of bleaching compositions containing sodium perborate when laundering a heavily soiled load or in small volumes of washing liquor.Such would result in a concentration of borate as high as 3.4 x 10 M or even higher in the laundry liquor. Also, it is not uncommon for the consumer to launder delicate items at temperatures significantly less than 37.50C. Both conditions can have the effect of reducing the solubility rate of films that meet the criteria set forth previously herein. An additional demonstration of the advantage of combining the embodiments in one film is set forth in the next examples. Examples 29 and 30 Using procedures similar to those described in the previous examples, two additional films were produced at a thickness of approximately 0.0079cm.The solubility rates of the two films were evaluated under conditions identical to those set forth previously herein with the exceptions that the borate concentration was maintained at 3.4 x 10 3M and that the temperature was maintained at 230 C. The results appear in Table IV. Thus, although the film presented inExample 29, in which one of the embodiments of this invention is used low molecular weight , has an acceptable solubility rate under the conditions set forth in this example, the solubility rate is relatively low. However, by combining the embodiments which teach the use of polyvinyl alcohol resins with number average molecular weight of about 50,000 or less, and the use of a polyhydroxy compound which has a binding constant with borate above about 800M 2, a film is produced with a solubility rate considerably higher and more acceptable than that ofExample 29. Thus, the combinations of the embodiments presented herein offers significant advantages over separate use of the individual embodiments. It can be expected that combinations of any two of the particular embodiments presented TABLE IVFilm Composition PVA 88 hydrolyzed, polyethyleneNumber average glycol dissolved dispersedExample MW 10,000 fructose MW 200 H2O 30 sec 300 sec 29 75 0 19 6 10 60 30 75 19 0 6 95 95 herein, or combinations of all three embodiments, will yield films that readily meet solubility criteria set forth previously. The present invention is directed to and discloses both a polyvinyl alcohol film and a laundry additive envelope combination with the film being of proper solubility rate in borate containing solutions under normal laundry conditions so as to deliver the contents of an envelope made of the film early during a wash cycle, even when borate is present.