# Method of watering potted plants.

## Abstract
In a method of watering potted plants placed on a support 1, 2, 5, 6 comprising parallel watering channels 8 formed by a bottom sheet 1 and elongated ridges 2 projecting therefrom, each pot 7 is placed on the ridges 2 in direct contact therewith such that the bottom of the pot extends over at least one watering channel 8 . The support 1, 2 is slightly inclined in the longitudinal direction of the channels 8 and water 10 is supplied to the channel from a location upstream of the pot.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method of watering potted plants placed on a support 1, 2, 5, 6 which comprises parallel watering channels 8 defined between elongated projecting ridges 2 , and is slightly inclined in the longitudinal direction of the watering channels, water 10 being supplied to the channels from the upper end of the support to be absorbed through the bottom of the pots 7 by the plants potted therein, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that each pot 7 is placed in linear contact with a number of ridges 2 supported by the ridges to span the watering channels 8 defined therebetween, the water being flown through the channels in contact with the lower side of the bottom of the pot. 2. A device of watering potted plants comprising a support 1, 2, 5, 6 having projecting elongated ridges 2 and parallel watering channels 8 defined therebetween and being slightly inclined in the longitudinal direction of the watering channel, and means for supplying water to the watering channels from the upper end of the support, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the ridges 2 are formed with a narrow upper edge and are closely spaced on the support 1, 2, 5, 6 at a mutual distance which is less than the bottom diameter of the pots 7 used, to support the pots on the ridges in linear contact at the narrow upper edges thereof. 3. A device as claimed in claim 2, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the ridges 2 are formed as sharp edges. 4. A device as claimed in claim 2 or 3, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the ridges 2 consist of an. elastic material to be partly depressed under the load of the pouts 7 placed thereon.

## Description
METHOD AND DEVICE OF WATERING POTTED PLANTS The present invention relates to a method of watering potted plants placed on a support which comprises parallel watering channels defined between elongated projecting ridges, and is slightly inclined in the longitudinal direction of the watering channels, the water being supplied to the channels from the upper end of the support to be sucked up through the bottom of the pots by the plants potted therein. Watering of potted plants can take place in several different manners in the growing of potted plants. The water can be spread out at the end or the side of a planar or inclining table. It can also be spread out at the centre of the table or at several locations along the entire width of the table. An absorbing or distributing material such as mats or sand or completely neutral materials which cannot absorb or distribute water but only retard the water flow to some extent, can be used as the support in the tables for potted plants. A problem encountered in connection with present methods and materials is that it cannot be taken for sure that the water is distributed uniformly if the tables are slightly uneven or if they are inclined to a varying extent. A table for potted plants having a length of 25 m and a width of 2 m can have e.g. a longitudinal inclination of 0.5 while being horizontal in the transverse direction thereof. Unfortunately, it is possible to maintain the table horizontal in the transverse direction only approximately and only for a short time. Therefore, when watering is initiated from the remote end of the table, the water will flow diagonally and already after a few meters will cover a limited portion only of the width of the table.This problem prevents a complete automation of the watering of the potted plants and moreover often necessitates that 2 to 5 watering pipes are installed in the longitudinal direction of the table, which are uniformly distributed over the entire width about 2 m of the table surface, which is expensive. Furthermore, the watering pipes often interfere with the pots which could be arranged very close to each other if this was not prevented by the watering pipes. Also as far as older tables are concerned it is desired to automate the watering which can be effected in the simplest way by inclining the tables in the transverse direction thereof. Due to unevenness of the table surface it is then necessary to use sand or mats which absorb and distribute the water. In many cases it is an obvious disadvantage to use in the wintertime or, for some plants, all the year around supports retaining water therein, because the growth in that case cannot be controlled. It is desired to use a support which does not retain water. The watering usually is the most time consuming operation in growing potted plants. Accordingly, there is a great need to automate the watering completely and to make the watering cheap as well as simple, such that the watering system is not interfering and can be made of neutral materials which do not retain water and which guide the distribution of the water in a predetermined direction, all plants on a table for potted plants thus being supplied with water. The purpose of the present invention is to eliminate the drawbacks of existing methods and materials and to make an automation of the watering possible also under less favourable conditions. This object is achieved by a method and a device of watering potted plants, the features thereof appearing from the characterizing parts of the following claims. A covering material e.g. of plastics, rubber or another resilient material is formed with ridges which can be e.g. 1 to 10 mm high and can be mutually spaced e.g. 10 to 20 mm. The covering material is placed on top of the table for the potted plants, which can be slightly inclined in the longitudinal or transverse direction thereof. The water is supplied at the end of the covering material, located at the highest level and then follows the grooves between the ridges and drains away at the end or at the side of the table. Due to the height and closeness of the ridges the water will be guided in a specific groove from one end to the other of the table independently of the degree of lateral inclination of the table. The potted plants are placed on the ridges of the covering material, and when the water in the grooves below the pot contacts the bottom thereof, the soil in the pot will be able to absorb water, the superfluous water at the same time passing by. When the water supply to the table or the covering material is interrupted, the water which has not been consumed by the plants will drain away and there will be obtained in a short time a dry table, which contributes to the control of the growth.More or less water can be supplied to a plant and the growth thereof can be controlled thereby. Even if the support of the table partly is inclined laterally in relation to the grooves or ridges the water will flow in the longitudinal direction of the table if the table has a predetermined inclination in the longitudinal direction thereof. The water can be supplied at the upper end of the table either over the entire width of the table or over a limited portion thereof.If it is desired to water e.g. only the margins of the table, it is possible to do so. The principle accordingly differs from the prior art in this field. The watering method provides a technical effect which makes automatic watering reliable. If the potted plants are watered by means of a system guided by grooves, all plants accordingly can be supplied with water independently of to which extent e.g. tables with longitudinal inclination are inclined laterally and independently of unevenness of the tables. It would be possible to automate completely the watering system and, if it is desirable, to reuse the water which has passed the table and which has not been absorbed by the plants. The invention will be described in more detail below by means of embodiments with reference to the accompanying drawings. FIG. 1 discloses part of the device according to the invention and illustrates a cross sectional view of a covering material, FIG. 2 discloses the covering material placed on a table for potted plants, FIG. 3 discloses the watering method according to the invention and illustrates a potted plant placed on the covering material, and flowing water in channels in the covering material, and FIG. 4 discloses a watering pipe at one end of the covering material. FIG. 1 discloses a covering material or a mat comprising a bottom sheet 1 and ridges 2 projecting therefrom. It is not necessary that the thickness of the bottom sheet is greater than that providing a satisfactory support for the ridges. The distance between the ridges 2 can be in the range from one millimeter or two to several centineters depending on the lateral inclina tion of the table and the size of the pots. The ridges 2 can have a sharp or flat top and they can be hard or soft. In FIG. 2 a table for potted plants is shown with a mat placed thereon. The table is supported by supporting pipes 4 and comprises a corrugated metal sheet 5 which is arranged as a support for a planar metal sheet 6 which in turn forms the planar support for the bottom sheet 1. Pots are placed on the ridges 2 of the bottom sheet 1, water 10 between the ridges simultaneously contacting the soil 11 in the pot, which will be saturated with water FIG. 3 . In FIG. 4 there is shown a perforated watering tube 12 which extends in the transverse direction of the table along one end thereof. When water is supplied such water flows over the mat 1 which by means of the ridges prevents the water from flowing diagonally over the table if the table is inclined laterally. All potted plants on the table will be supplied with water due to the water being guided in this way. The bottom sheet 1 and the ridges 2 preferably are made integrally of a suitable material such as metal sheet, plastics or rubber.