# Method for the development of photoresist layers, and developer.

## Abstract
A developer comprising a surfactant, an organic sol vent, an alkali agent of about 0.01 to 5 wt of a watersoften ing agent having a sequestering ratio of at least 50 at the pH of the developer and water to remove the unexposed area of said photosensitive layer, and a method of develop ment comprising imagewise exposing a photosensitive ma terial comprising a support having thereon a light hardenable photosensitive layer including an organic high molecular polymer with an acid value of 10 to 200, and processing the photosensitive material with the developer.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A developer for removing the unexposed area of a light hardenable photosensitive layer having an organic high molecular polymer with an acid value of 10 to 200 and an organic solvent soluble diazo resin, said developer comprising a surfactant, an organic solvent, an alkali agent, 0.01 to 5 wt of a water softening agent having a sequestering ratio of at least 50 at the pH of said developer, and water. 2. The developer of claim 1, wherein said water softening agent is an aminopolycarboxylic acid or an aminopolycarboxylic acid alkali metal salt. 3. The developer of claim 1, wherein the amount of said water softening agent is 0.01 to 0.5 wt . 4. The developer of claim 1, wherein said surfactant is an anionic or nonionic surfactant. 5. The developer of claim 1, wherein said surfactant is a salt of a sulfate ester of a higher alcohol having to 22 carbon atoms, a salt of an aliphatic alcohol phosphate ester, a salt of an alkylaryl sulfonic acid, a salt of an alkylamide sulfonic acid, a sulfate salt or a dibasic aliphatic acid ester, a polyglycol alkyl phenyl ether or a polyglycol alkyl ether. 6. The developer of claim 1, wherein said organic solvent is benzyl alcohol or 2 phenoxyethanol. 7. The developer of claim 1, wherein said alkali agent is triethanolamine, diethanolamine or monoethanol amine. 8. The developer of claim 1, wherein said organic solvent soluble diazo resin is a condensation product of an aromatic diazonium salt. 9. The developer of claim 8, wherein said condensation product of an aromatic diazonium salt is a sulfonate or hexafluorophosphate of condensation products of p diazodiphenyl amines and formaldehyde or adetaldehyde. 10. A method of development comprising imagewise exposing a photosensitive material comprising a support having a light hardenable photosensitive layer including an organic high molecular weight polymer with an acid value of 10 to 200 and an organic solvent soluble diazo resin thereon, and processing said photosensitive material with a developer containing a surfactant, an organic solvent, an alkali agent, about 0.01 to 5 wt of a water softening agent having a sequestering ratio of at least 50t at the pH of said developer, and water to remove the unexposed area of said photosensitive layer. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein said water softening agent is an aminopolycarboxylic acid or an aminopolycarboxylic acid alkali metal salt. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein the amount of said water softening agent is 0.01 to 0.5 wt. 13. The method of claim 10, wherein said sarfactan. is an anionic or nonionic surfactant. 14. The method of claim 10, wherein said surfactant is a salt of a sulfate ester of a higher alcohol having 8 to 22 carbon atoms, a salt of an aliphatic alcohol phosphate ester, a salt of an alkylaryl sulfonic acid, a salt of an alkylamide sulfonic acid, a sulfate salt or a dibasic aliphatic acid ester, a polyglycol alkyl phenyl ether or a polyglycol alkyl ether. 15. The method of claim 10, wherein said organic solvent is venzyl alcohol or 2 phenoxyethanol. 16. The method of claim 10, wherein said alkali agent is triethanolamine, diethanolamine or monoethanol amine. 17. The method of claim 10, wherein said organic solvent soluble diazo resin is a condensation product of an aromatic diazonium salt. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein said condensation product of an aromatic diazonium salt is a sulfonate or hexafluorophosphate of condensation products of p diazodiphenyl amines and formaldehyde or acetaldehyde.

## Description
METHOD OF DEVELOPMENT AND DEVELOPER FIELD OF THE INVENTION fie present invention relates to a method of development and to a developer. More particularly, the invention relates to a method of development that removes the unexposed area of a photosensitive material having a lighthardenable photosensitive layer containing, as one component, an organic high molecular weight polymer with an acid value of from 10 to 200, as well as a developer usëd in such a method. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Japanese Patent Application OPI No. 77401 76 the abbreviation OPI as used herein means an unexamined published Japanese patent application discloses a com position comprising an anionic surfactant, benzyl alcohol, an alkali agent and water, and this composition is used as a developer for removing the unexposed area of a photosensitive layer comprising an organic high molecular weight polymer having an acid value of 10 to 100 and a photosensitive diazo compound. The developer is usually supplied as a concentrated solution to the user who dilutes it with water to a desired concentration on use.However, in some cases, the development achieved is insufficient i.e., the photosensitive layer is not completely removed from the unexposed area and slimy insoluble matter is formed in large quantities in the developer, and these problems prevent the developer from performing its function to the fullest extent. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION As a result of various studies to eliminate these problems, it has unexpectedly been found that these problems are due to the high hardness of the water used to dilute The concentrated bulk developer. It has also been found that insufficient development takes place in all cases where light hardenable photosensitive layers containing organic high molecular polymers with an acid value of 10 to 200 are developed. Therefore, one object of the present invention is to provide an improved developer where its intended function is achieved on all occasions. Another object of the invention is to provide a developer that has constant developing power regardless of the hardness of the water used to dilute the concentrated developer. A further object of the invention is to provide a developer that can be diluted with water with a high degree of hardness hereinafter high hardness water without insufficient development occurring and without large quantities of slimy insoluble matter forming. Still another object of the invention is to provide a method of development wherein even a developer diluted with high hardness water can be used effectively to remove all of the unexposed areas of a photosensitive material including a light hardenable photosensitive layer containing an organic high molecular weight polymer with an acid value of 10 to 200. It has now been found that the above objects are attained by first preparing a developer that comprises an anionic surfactant, an organic solvent, an alkal agent and water and which is suitable for removing the unexposed area of a light hardenable photosensitive layer containing an organic high molecular weight polymer with an acid value of 10 to 200, then adding to the developer a water softening agent having a sequestering ratio of at least about 50 at the pH of the developer. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION The probable reason why insufficient development and slimy insoluble mattter in the developer can be avoided by incorporating a water softening agent in the developer is as follows. An organic high molecular weight polymer having an acid value of 10 to 200 in the unexposed area of the photosensitive layer reacts with the alkali agent in the developer to become water soluble and dissolves out in the developer. If hard water has been used to dilute the concentrated developer, the organic high molecular weight polymer is ionically crosslinked due to calcium ions and or magnesium ions present in the hard water.Since the ionically crosslinked polymer is only sparingly soluble or completely insoluble in the developer, insufficient development occurs and the insoluble polymer builds up in the developer as slimy insolubles, which further increases the insufficiency of development. However, a water softening agent in the developer sequesters the calcium ions and or magnesium ions in the developer. Therefore, there is no chance for the organic high molecular weight polymer having an acid value of 10 to 200 to be crosslinked ionically. As a result, complete development is achieved and no slimy insoluble matter is formed in the developer. Since the developer is an alkaline material, the water softening agent used in the present invention must be capable of sequestering calcium ions and magnesium ions under alkaline conditions. It must have a sequestering ratio of about 50 equivaltent to the water softening agent having a chelate stability constant log K to calcium ion of about 4 or more at the pH of the specific formulation of developer, and a water softening agent having a sequestering ratio of 50 at a pH of 9 is preferred.Typical examples of suitable water softening agents include polyphosphate salts such as Na2P2O7, Na5P3O3, Na3P3O9, Na2O4P NaO3 P03Na21 Calgon sodium polymetaphosphate produced by Holchst AG and aminopolycarboxylic acids such as ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid, diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid, tr iethyl enetetraminehexaacetic acid, hydroxyethylethylenediaminetriacetic acid, nitrilotriacetic acid, l,2 diaminocyclohexane tetraacetic acid and l,3 diamino 2 propanoltetraacetic acid, as well as the potassium and sodium salts thereof and organophosphonic acids or phosphonocarboxylic acids such as aminotri methylenephosphonic acid , l hydroxyethylidene l, 1 diphosphonic acid, 2 phosphonobutanetricarboxylic acid1,2,4,2 amino 2 methyl l hydroxypropane 1,1 diphosphonic acid or 2 pyridine 1 hydroxymethane 1,1 disphosphonic acid, or the potassium salts or sodium salts thereof. Particumarly preferred examples are aminopolycarboxylic acids or the potassium or sodium salts thereof and since these sequester calcium ions or magnesium ions quite well with a small amount thereof. Optimum value for the amount of these water softening agents varies with the hardness and amount of the water used. Generally, 0.01 to 5 wt of the water softening agent is used based on the diluted developer and preferably 0.01 to 5 wt of the water softening daunt is used. Effective surfactants for use in the developer of the present invention include anionic and nonionic surfactants.For developers used to develop photosensitive materials having light hardenable photosensitive layers containing photosensitive diazo compounds as described hereunder, anionic surfactants are preferred since they are also capable of dissolving the photosensitive diazo compounds.Illustrative anionic surfactants include salts of sulfate esters of higher alcohols having 8 to 22 carbon atoms such as the sodium salt of lauryl alcohol sulfate, the sodium salt of octyl alcohol sulfate, the ammonium salt of lauryl alcohol sulfate and secondary sodium alkyl sulfate salts of aliphatic alcohol phosphate esters such as the sodium salt of cetyl alcohol phosphate ester salts of alkylaryl sulfonic acids such as the sodium salt of dodecyl benzenesulfonic acid, the sodium salt of isopropyl naphthalenesulfonic acid, the disodium salt of alkyl diphenylether disulfonic acid, C8F17 SO3K, and the sodium salt of metanitrobenzenesulfonic acid salts of alkylamide sulfonic acids such as C17R33CON CH3 CH2 CH2 SO3Na and sulfate salts of dibasic aliphatic acid esters such as dioctyl sodium sulfosuccinate and dihexyl sodium sulfosuccinate. Illustrative nonionic surfactants include polyglycol alkylphenyl ethers and polyglycol alkyl ethers. These surfactants are generally preent in the diluted developer in an amount of about 0.1 to 5 wt . If the amount of the surfactant is less than about 0.1 wt , their intended effect is not fully achieved, and if the amount exceeds about 5 wt , the dye in the hardened areas of the lighthardenable photosensitive layer dissolves into the developer in an excessive amount or the image in the hardened areas has poor mechanical strength e.g., low wear resistance and chemical strength. The preferred range is from 0.5 to 1.5 wt . Organic solvents suitable for use in the developer of the present invention are those having a water solubility of not more than about 10 wt , preferably not more than about 2 wt . Specific examples include 1 phenylethanol, 2 phenylethanol, 3 phenylpropanol l, 4 phenylbutanol l, 4 phenylbutanol 2, 2 phenylbutanol l, 2 phenoxyethanol, 2 benzyloxy ethanol, o methoxybenzyl alcohol, m methoxybenzyl alcohol, p methoxybenzyl alcohol, benzyl alcohol, cyclohexanol, 2 methylcyclohexanol, 4 methylcyclohexanol and 3rmethylcy clohexanol, preferably benzyl alcohol and 2 phenoxyethanol.These organic solvents are present in the developer preferably in an amount of about 1 to 5 wt based on the weight of the diluted developer. Their amount is closely reated to the amount of the surfactants used, and the amount of the surfactants is preferably increased as the amount of the organic solvents is increased. This is because, if too much organic solvent is used in comparison with the surfactants, the solvents will not completely dissolve in water and hence, the desired development cannot be achieved. Illustrative alkali agents which can be used in the developer of the present invention include inorganic alkali agents such as sodium silicate, potassium silicate, potassium hydroxide, sodium hydroxide, lithium hydroxide, sodium tertiary phosphate, sodium secondary phosphate, ammonium tertiary phosphate, ammonium secondary phosphate, sodium metasilicate, sodium bicarbonate, sodium borage, ammonium borate and ammonia as well as organic amine compounds such as monomethylamine, dimethylamine, trimethylamine, monoethylamine, diethylamine, triethylamine, monoisopropylamine, diisopropylamine, n butylamine, monoethanolamine, diethanolamine, triethanolamine, monoisopropanolamine, diisopropanolamine, ethyleneimine, ethylenediamine and pyridine. These alkali agents may be used alone or in combination.Particularly preferred alkali agents are high boiling organic amine compounds such as triethanol amine, diethanol amine or monoethanol amine. The alkali agents are generally present in the developer in an amount of about 0.05 to 3 wt , preferably from 0.1 to 1 wt , such that the pH of the diluted developer is about 8 to 11. If the amount of the alkali agent is less than about 0.05 wt , the unhardened photosensitive layer is not completely removed, and if the amount exceeds about 3 wt , the light hardened area of the photosensitive layer has low mechanical and chemical strength, and a lithographic printing plate prepared from such a photosensitive layer has only a short printing life. The remainder of the developer of the present invention is water, but it may optionally contain various additives conventionally used in the art. For the sake of convenience in transportation, the developer of the present invetnion is advantageously supplied to the user in a concentrated bulk form which is diluted with water before use. A suitable degree of concentration is such that the individual components of the developer will not separate from each other or will not form a precipitate. According to the present invention, the concentrated developer need not be diluted with pure water and water having an American hardness hereunder abbreviated to AH of 50 ppm or more may be used without any disadvan tage. The photosensitive material that can be processed with the developer of the present invention has a light harden able photosensitive layer containing an organic highmolecular weight polymer with an acid value of 10 to 200. Particularly preferred is a material that has a photosensitive layer comprising the amount described polymer and a photosensitive diazo compound, and this type of photosensitive material is hereinafter described in detail Specific examples of the organic high molecular weight polymers having an acid value of 10 to 200 are copolymers containing acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, crotonic acid or maleic acid as an essential comonomer, such as terpolymers orwtetrapolymers as disclosed in U.S.Patent No. 4,123,276 comprising 2 hydroxyethyl acrylate or 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate, acrylonitrile or methacrylonitrile, and acrylic acid or methacrylic acid, and an optional comonomer copolymers as disclosed in Japanese Patent Application OPI No. 120903 78 which comprise acrylic acid or methacrylic acid wherein a terminal hydroxyl group is esterified with a group containing a dicarboxylic acid ester residue an acrylic acid or methacrylic acid, and an optional comonomer copolymers as disclosed in Japanese Patent Application OPI No. 98614 79 comprising a monomer having a terminal aromatic hydroxyl group e.g., N 4 hydroxyphenyl methacrylamide , acrylonitrile, methacrolonitrile, and acrylic acid or methacrylic acid, . and optionally at least one other comonomer and copolymers as disclosed in Japanese Patent Application OPI No. 4144 81 comprising alkyl acrylate or methacrylate, acrylonitrile or methacrylonitrile and an unsaturated carboxylic acid. Other useful polymers are acid polyvinyl alcohol derivatives and acidic cellulose derivatives. Particularly preferred organic high molecular weight polymers are multi component copolymers comprising hydroxy group containing meth acrylates, acrylonitriles, meth acrylic acids, or meth acrylates, as disclosed in, for example, U.S. Patent 4,123,276 and Japanese PatentApplication OPI No. 98614 79. Optional comonomers which can be present are monomers which are copolymaerizable with meth acrylonitrile and meth acrylic acid, and include meth acrylate, styrene, vinyl toluene, crotonic acid ester, meth acrylamide, N acetyl meth acrylamide and N aryl meth acrylamide. Organic solvent soluble diazo compounds which can be used in the present invention are condensation products of aromatic diazonium salts. Examples thereof are hexafluorophosphates, tetrafluoroborates, phosphates, organosulfonates or organocarboxylates of condensation products of p diazo diphenylamines and an active carbonyl compound such as formaldehyde or acetaldehyde. Specific examples thereof are condensation products of p diazodiphenylamine and formaldehyde and the sulfonates thereof such as p toluenesulfonate or 2 methoxy 4 hydroxy 5 benzoylbenzesulfonate . Other examples thereof are condensation products of p diazodi phenylamine and formaldehyde and hexafluorophosphates, tetrafluoroborates, thiosulfates, phosphonates or oxalates thereof. Condensation products of p diazodipehnylamine in which a methoxy, ethoxy, methyl or ethyl group has been introduced into the phenyl nucleus can also be used. Other examples of organic solvent soluble diazo resins are condensation products of p diazodiphenylamines and diphenyl ether derivatives as disclosed in U.S. Patent 3,679,419. Of these compounds, sulfonates and hexafluorophosphates of the condensation products of p diazodiphenylamine and formaldehyde are particularly preferred. The photosensitive diazo compounds are present in the light hardenable photosensitive layer in an amount of from about 5 to 50 wt , preferably from 8 to 20 wt . The light hardenable photosensitive layer described above is formed on a support which can be selected from various types of supports according to the object. To prepare a presensitized lithographic printing plate, a metal support such as an aluminum plate is preferred. The surface of the aluminum plate is preferably subjected to a surface treatment, such as a treatment with an aqueous solution of an alkali metal silicate salt as described in U S. PatentNo. 2,714,066 or an anodization followed by treatment with an aqueous solution of an alkali metal silicate salt as disclosed in U.S.Patent No 3,181,461 The so treated aluminum plate is coated with the photosensitive layer in a thickness of about 0.1 to 7 g m2, preferably from 0.2 to 5 g m2, to thereby prepare a presensitized lithographic printing plate precursor. The printing plate precursor is subjected to imagewise exposure through a transparency to a light source rich in ultraviolet rays, such as a metal halide lamp. Then, the plate is processed with the developer of the present invention to produce a lithographic printing plate with the photosensitive layer removed from the unexposed area As described above, the developer of the present invention can be used with a presensitized lithographic printing plate but it can also be applied to a photomask making sensitive material or a photoresist with equal advantage. The present invention is now described in greater detail by reference to the following examples which are given here for illustrative purposes only and are by no means intended to limit the scope of the invention. Unless otherwise noted, all percents in the examples are by weight. Example 1 Ethylene glycol monomethyl ether 300 g was heated at 1000C in a nitrogen stream, and a liquid mixture of 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate 70 g , acrylonitrile 80 g , benzyl methacrylate 130 g , methacrylic acid 20 g and benzoyl peroxide 1.2 g was added dropwise over 2 hours.Fifteen minutes after the completion of the addition, a mixture of ethylene glycol monomethyl ether 300 g and benzoyl peroxide 0.3 g was added, and the reaction was continued for 4 hours. After completion of the reaction, the reaction mixture was diluted with methanol and poured into water to precipitate a copolymer which was vacuum dried at 700C. The resulting 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate copolymer I had an acid value of 40.2. A 2S aluminum plate 0.15 mm thick was degreased by immersing it in a 10 aqueous solution of sodium tertiary phosphate 800C for 3 minutes, grained with a nylon brush and desmutted with a 3 aqueous solution of sodium aluminate at 60 C. The aluminum plate was anodized in a 20 sulfuric acid aqueous solution for 2 minutes at a current density of 2 A dm2, then treated with a 2.5 aqueous solution of sodium silicate at 700C for one minute. The so treated aluminum plate was coated with 1 photosensitive solution of the following formulation and dried at 1000C for 2 minutes to prepare a presensitized lithographic printing place precursor.2 Hydroxymethyl Methacrylate Copolymer I 87 g 2 Methoxy 4 hydroxy 5 benzoylbenzenesulfonic Acid Salt of p Diazodiphenylamine paraformaldehyde Condensate 10 gOil Blue 603 oil soluble, triphenylmethane dye from Orient Chemical IndustryCo., Ltd. 3 g 2 Methoxyethanol 600 gMethanol 600 gEthylene Dichloride 600 g The dry weight of the coating was 2.5 g m2. The presensitized printing plate precursor was subjected to imagewise exposure for 40 seconds at a distance of 70 cm to a 30 A carbon arc lamp through a negative transparency placed in intimate contact with the plate.The plate was then processed in a commercial automatic developing machine at 250C for 56 seconds with a developer prepared by diluting a concentrated developer of the following formulation with water having an AH of 270 ppm in a developer to water volume ratio of 1 1.Benzyl Alcohol 90 gTrethanolamine 30 gSodium Isopropylnaphthalenesulfonate 30 gSodium Sulfite 6g Trisodium Nitrilotriacetate 0.5 gIon exchanged Water 844 g The resulting lithographic printing plate precursor had no film of unhardened photosensitive layer left on the nonimage area due to incomplete development. The plate was set in an offset printing machine and the desired image could be printed on at least 80,000 sheets of quality paper. A control concentrated developer that was the same as described above except that it did not contain any trisodium nitrilotriacetate as a water softening agent was diluted with water AH 270 ppm in a volume ratio of 1 1. When a presensitized printing plate precursor as described above was processed with this control developer, a printing plate having a film of unhardened photosensitive layer remaining on the nonimage area was produced. On printing with this plate on a printing machine, the ink smeared the nonimage area. When many presensitized lithographic printing plates that had been subjected to imagewise exposure were processed with the same automatic developing machine, slime deposited on the bottom of the developer tank.No such deposit was formed when the plate was processed with the developer of the present invention although it was prepared by diluting a concentrated developer with hard water. Example 2 A solution comprising 2 g of the same diazo resin as described in Example 1, 80 g of a methyl methacrylate acrylonitrile methacrylic acid monomer ratio in wt 70 30 10 , 3 g of phosphoric acid, 3 g of Oil Blue 603, 600 g of ethylene glycol monomethyl ether, 600 g of methanol and 600 g of ethylene dichloride was coated onto the aluminum plate of Example 1. The dry weight of the coating was 1.5 g m2. After imagewise exposure, the presensitized plate precursor was processed with a developer prepared by diluting a concentrated developer 60 g of benzyl alcohol, 20 g of sodium silicate, 20 g of sodium dodecyl benzenesul donate, 10 g of potassium phosphite, 0.5 g of nitrilotriacetic acid, and 890 g of pure water with water having anAH of 270 ppm in a developer to water volume ratio of 1 1. A lithographic printing plate with a clear nonimage area was produced. Examples 3 to 10 Lithographic printing plate precursors were made as inExample 1 except that developers were prepared by diluting the concentrate developers indicated in the following table with samples of water The values of AH of the water samples and the developer to water ratios are also indicated in the table. The plates produced had no stain on the nonimage area. Hardness of DeveloperExample Formulation of Diluting to Water Result of No. Concentrated Developer Water Ratio Development Benzyl Alcohol 90g Sodium Isopropyl Naphthalenesulfonate 30g Triethano lamine 30g Monoethanolamine 2g 3 Sodium Phosphite 6g 400 ppm 1 1 good Tetrasodium Ethylene diamine Tetraacetate 0.5g Ion Exhanged Water 842g 4 Same As Above 400 ppm 1 0.5 good Benzyl Alcohol 90g Sodium Isopropyl Naphthalenesulfonate 30g Triethanolamine 30g 5 Monoethanolamine 2g 270 ppm 1 1 good Sodium Phosphite 6g Nitrilotriacetic Acid 0.5g Ion Exchanged Water 842g m Methoxybenzyl Alcohol 60g Sodium Octylphosphate 20g 6 Sodium Bicarbonate 20g 270 ppm 1 1 good Nitrilotriacetic Acid lg Ion Exchanged Water 900g Hardness of DeveloperExample Formulation of Diluting to Water Result of No.Concentrated Developer Water Ratio Development l Phenylethanol 60g Sodium Tertiary Phosphate 20g Sodium Salt of Aliphatic Alcohol Polyglycol Ether Sulfate 30g 7 Trisodium Nitrilo triacetate 0.5g 270 ppm 1 I good Pentasodium Diethylenetri aminepentaacetate 0. Ig Ion Exchanged Water 890g Benzyl Alcohol 40g Sodium Isopropyl Naphthalenesulfonate 20g 8 Ammonium Borate 20g 270 ppm 1 1 good Hexasodium Triethylene tetraaminehexaacetate 0.7g Ion Exchanged Water 920g Benzyl Alcohol 90g Sodium Isopropylnaph thalenesulfonate 30g Triethanolamine 30g 9 Monoethanolamine 2g 270 ppm 1 1 good Sodium Phosphite 6g Sodium Pyrophosphate Ig Ion Exchanged Water 841g Same as Example I except that Sodium Pyrophosphate was 10 replaced by an equal amount 270 ppm 1 1 good of Potassium Pyrophosphate Example 11 A solution comprising 20 g of a hexafluorophosphate salt of a p diazodiphenylamine paraformaldehyde condensate, 86 g of a p hydroxyphenyl methacrylamide acrylonitrile methyl methacrylate methacrylic acid monomer ratio in wt 20 35 35 10 , 3 g of 85 phosphoric acid, e g of VictoriaPure Blue BOH dye from Hodogaya Chemical Co., Ltd. , 600 g of ethylene glycol monomethyl ether, 600 g of methanol and 600 g of ethylene dichloride was coated onto the aluminum plate of Example 1. The dry weight of the coating was 1.7 g m2.After imagewise exposure, the presensitized lithographic printing plate precursor was processed in a brush equipped horizontally travelling automatic developing machine for 50 seconds with a developer 25 C3 prepared by diluting the concentrated developer of Example 1 with well water AH 110 ppm in a developer to water volume ratio of 1 2. The resulting lithographic printing plate had no unhardened photosensitive layer left on the nonimage area due to incomplete development. A control concentrated developer that was the same as described above except that it contained no trisodium nitrilotriacetate as a water softening agent was diluted with well water AH 110 ppm in a volume ratio of 1 2. When the presensitized plate precursor was processed with this control developer 250C in the same automatic developing machine for 50 seconds, a printing plate having a film of unhardened photosensitive layer partially left on the nonimage area was produced, and this caused a heavy stain on printed matter. While the invention has been described in detail and with reference to specific embodiments thereof, it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that various changes and modifications can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope thereof.