# Powdery silicon nitride composition and sintered body made thereof and processes for preparing the same.

## Abstract
Powdered Si3N4 compsn. is prepd. by adding to SiO2 of a grain size 0.01 0.05 microns, a carbon of similar grain size and b one or more metallic cpds. selected from 1 the salts and oxides of Mg, Ca, Sr and B, 2 Al, Al2O3, AlF3, AlN, Fe2O3, SnO2, Vb2O5, La2O3, Cr2O3, CeO2 and Cr3O2, then reducing and nitriding the resultant mixt. The powder formed is then moulded in the presence of sintering additives as described to a desired shape then sintered 1600 1800 deg.C. The powdered Si3N4 is obtd. in less reaction time than in prior art. The powder is more readily sintered and the proportion of alpha Si3N4 is greater than in previous cases.

## Claims
Claims 1. A process for preparing a powdery silicon nitride composition which comprises adding, to silica having a grain size of ca. 0.01 to 0.05 Wm, a carbon having a grain size of ca. 0.01 to 0.05 m and b one or more metallic compound selected from 1 the group consisting of salts or oxide ofMg, Ca, Sr and Ba, 2 AQ, A 2O3, AZF3, AQN, Fe2O3, SnO2,Nb2O5, La2O3, Cr2O3, CeO2 and Cr3C2, reducing and nitriding the resultant mixture. 2. A process for preparing a sintered body which comprises adding, to silica having a grain size of ca. 0.01 to 0.05 m, a carbon having a grain size of ca. 0.01 to 0.05 pm and b one or more metallic compound selected from 1 the group consisting of salts or oxide of Mg, Ca, Sr and Ba, 2 At, A 2O3, A F3, A N, Fe2O3, SnO2, Nb2O5, La2O3, Cr2O3, CeO2 andCr3C2, reducing and nitriding the resultant mixture to produce a powdery silicon nitride composition, and then molding the thus produced composition in the presence of a sintering additives into a desired shape and then sintering the shaped body at a temperature of ca. 1600 ito 18000C. 3. A process according to Claim 1 or 2, wherein the grain sizes of silica, carbon and the metallic compound are ca. 0.02 to 0.04 pm, ca. 0.02 to 0.04 pm and not more than ca. 1 pm, respectively. 4. A process according to Claim 2, wherein the sintering additive is selected from Y2031 CeO2, A 2O3, MgO, TiO2 and AtN. 5. A process according to Claim 1 or 2, wherein the amount of carbon to be added is in the range of ca. 40 to 80 parts by weight with respect to 100 parts by weight of silica. 6. A process according to Claim 5, wherein the amount of carbon to be added is in the range of ca. 40 to 60 parts by weight with respect to 100 parts by weight of silica. 7. A process according to Claim 1 or 2, wherein the amount of the metallic compound to be added is in the range of ca. 0.1 to 20 parts by weight in terms of a carbonate in the case of a salt of Mg, Ca, Ba or Sr . 8. A process according to Claim 1 or 2, wherein the reducing and nitriding are carried out at a temperature of ca. 1400 to 15500C for one to two hours. 9. A powdery silicon nitride composition obtained by the process as claimed in Claim 1. 10. A sintered silicon nitride body obtained by the process as claimed in Claim 2. 11. A powdery silicon nitride composition according toClaim 9 or 10, wherein the conversion to silicon nitride is not less than ca. 95 and the proportion of the a type silicon nitride therein is not less than ca. 80 .

## Description
Powdery silicon nitride composition and sintered body made thereof and processes for preparing the same.The present invention relates to a powdery silicon nitride composition and sintered body made thereof and processes for preparing the same.As methods of obtaining a powdery silicon nitride, for example, the following methods have heretofore been known 1 A method of nitriding a metallic silicon, 2 a vapor phase reaction method in which silicon tetrachloride or silane and ammonia are used as .starting materials, and 3 a method of reducing silica with carbon, followed by nitriding.However, method 1 mentioned above has the disadvantage that the metallic silicon itself is expensive and an obtained silicon nitride is therefore costly, too.Method 2 above is not fit for mass production, and is further unsuitable for manufacture of a silicon nitride for use in an inorganic heat resistant material.Additionally, method 3 takes a prolonged time to complete a reaction therein, which disadvantageously increases the cost of production. In the method 3 , there have hitherto been proposed, for the purpose of improving the reactivity, a method in which an oxide of iron, or an oxide of AQ, Ca or Mg is added see Japanese Provisional Patent PublicationNo. 28599 1976 and a method in which an oxide of Mn,Co, Cr or V is added see Japanese Provisional PatentPublication No. 5700 1977 .According to the methods as proposed in Japanese Provisional Patent Publication Nos. 28599 1976 and 5700 1977, while the effect of shortening the time of reaction can be recognized, lesser amount of a type silicon nitride and larger amount of type silicon nitride tend to be produced. Here, the a type silicon nitride means a hexagonal Si3N4 having interstitial metal atoms between the crystal lattices and B type silicon nitride means a phenacite type hexagonal ss Si3N4. According to the investigation by the present inventors, the proportion of the a type as a powdery material has noticeable influence upon the properties of a sintered body made thereof.Namely, a sintered body made of a type silicon nitride is excellent in the strength from room temperature to around 12000C , heat shock resistance and ductility. These effect can remarkably be obtained when the proportion of the atype is at least 80 . More preferably, the proportion of the a type is at least 90 . An object of the present invention is to provide a process for preparing a powdery silicon nitride which is manufactured in a curtailed reaction time, which is capable of accepting a sintering treatment with more ease and in which the proportion of a type silicon nitride is higher, as compared with a conventional composition, and a silicon nitride sintered body obtained by using the resultant silicon nitride. The process for preparing a powdery silicon nitride composition according to the present invention is carried out by the steps of adding, to silica having a average grain size of ca. 0.01 to 0.05 ijm, a carbon having an average grain size of ca. 0.01 to 0.05 pm and b a metallic compound mentioned below having a average grain size of not more than ca. 5 pm, reducing and nitriding the resultant mixture and the process for preparing a sintered body according to the present invention is carried out by the procedure of molding the thus obtained composition into a desired shape and sintering it at a temperature of ca. 1600 to 1800 C adding such a sintering additives as a compound selected from the group consisting of Y2O3, CeO2, A 2O3, MgO, TiO2, ZrO2, Li20, SiO2 and AQN. The metallic compounds specified in the item b include carbonates such as CaCO3, SrCO3, BaCO3 , oxides such as CaO, SrO, BaO and MgO , fluorides such as MgF2,CaF2 , chlorides such as CaC 2, MgCQ2, SrC 2 , sulfates such as CaSO4, MgSO4 and sulfides such as CaS, MgS,SrS of Mg, Ca, Sr and Ba A , A 2O3, A F3, AQN, Fe203, SnO Nb205, La2O3, Cr2O3, CeO2, Cr3 and the like, and selected one or more of these compounds are used.Amounts of the carbon to be added of the above item a used in the present invention are preferably within the range of ca. 40 to 80 parts by weight, more preferably within the range of ca. 40 to 60 parts by weight, with respect to 100 parts by weight of silica.It is preferred from the viewpoints of reactivity, yield of an a type silicon nitride and the like that amounts of these metallic compounds to be added are within the range of ca. 0.1 to 20 parts by weight in terms of a carbonate in the case of a salt of Mg, Ca, Ba orSr with respect to 100 parts by weight of silica, but the following ranges are more preferred for the respective metallic compounds MgC03, CaC03, SrC03, BaCO3, MgF2, CaF2, oxides of Mg, Ca, Sr and Ba, SnO2, AQF3 and La203 ... ca. 0.5 10 parts by weight in terms of a carbonate in the case of a salt of Mg, Ca, Sr or Ba , A , A 2O3, Fe2O3, Cr3C2 and A N ... ca. 0.5 5 parts by weight, and Nb205, Cr2O3 and CeO2 ... ca. 5 X 10 parts by weight.The present invention is to provide a silicon nitride containing higher proportion of a type silicon nitride by using finely devided material as prescribed above in proportions as mentioned above. It is considered that this effect can be brought about since the use of finely divided material causes a rapid reaction of SiO2 and C so that the a type silicon nitride tends to be produced more readily. If the average grain sizes of silica and carbon used in the present invention exceed ca. 0.05 um and the grain size of the additive metallic compound exceeds ca. 5 urn, the effect obtained becomes low. When the average grain sizes of silica and carbon are less than ca. 0.01 m, hanogeneous mixing of the silica and the carbon becomes difficult so that the reaction does not proceed uniformly, thus causing a serious problem.Since the amount of the additive to be added is small, the grain size thereof may preferably be as fine as possible. Preferable range of the average grain sizes of silica, carbon and the additive are ca. 0.02 to 0.04 pm, ca. 0.02 to 0.04 pm and not more than ca. 1 pm, respectively. The powdery silicon nitride composition according to the present invention is prepared by the steps of adding, to silica, a carbon and b a metallic compound, mixing them, heating the resultant mixture for reduction and nitridation at a temperature of ca. 1400 to 15500C for a period of ca. 1 to 2 hours while nitrogen is caused to flow at a flow rate of ca. 1 to 10 cm sec in the system.In the present invention, the silica, in addition to its single use, may be employed in combination with a small amount of a metallic silicon or silicon nitride, which acts as a seed material for the reduction and the nitriding treatment in order to accelerate the progress of the reactions.Now, the present invention will be explained in more detail by way of the Examples and Comparative examples illustrated below.Examples 1 to 28 and Comparative examples 1 to 11Each of the metallic compounds having a grain size of not more than 5 p and shown in the following table was mixed with 100 parts by weight of silica and 40 X 80 parts by weight of carbon, and 1.7 g of the resultant mixture was applied onto a graphite boat so that the mixture might be 5 mm in thickness. The boats with each mixture were put in a small sized Tanmann furnace having a temperature of 14500C in which nitrogen gas was flowing at a flow rate of 100 l hr. After reaction for one or two hours, the graphite boats were taken out and nitrogen analysis, X ray diffraction and oxygen analysis were carried out for thus obtained products.Some products which were low in the yield of Si3N4 were caused to further undergo additional reaction for one hour, and were taken out and subjected to the same tests.Moreover, a sintering additives 5 parts by weight of 2 and 2 parts by weight of A 2O3 was added to each YO3 a of the resultant compositions, and compression molding was carried out at a pressure of 500 kg cm2 so as to obtain specimens of rectangular parallelepiped in shape each of which was 30 by 30 by 10 mm in size, and these specimens were sintered under a pressure of 400 kg cm2 by using a hot press at a temperature of 1750 C for a period of 2 hours. Reactivity and strength of the resultant sintered body were measured. In has been found from the measurements that the reactivity is highly good, a desired silicon nitride can be synthesized in a short period of time, and the strength of the sintered body is so excellent as to be comparable to conventional ones.Results obtained by the measurements are shown in the following table. Table EMI7.1 tb SEP C SEP c tb SEP b SEP cu tb SEP Silica SEP Carb SEP n SEP Ad SEP itive SEP n SEP v0 SEP o SEP co SEP co SEP m SEP Propor SEP Grain SEP co SEP o SEP In SEP m tb SEP , SEP SEP E SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP m tb SEP Grain SEP A SEP e SEP Grain SEP Added SEP sion SEP to SEP time SEP tion SEP of SEP size SEP of SEP strength tb SEP size SEP amount SEP size SEP amount SEP Si SEP N tb SEP Q FI SEP X tb SEP c SEP parts SEP 3 SEP v tb SEP qq SEP H tb SEP OO SEP .E SEP wei SEP zzco SEP pm SEP wei SEP co SEP co SEP CE SEP hour SEP co SEP co SEP pm SEP SEP mm2 tb SEP d SEP N SEP Fl0.035 SEP 7 SEP 0.02 SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP 1 SEP 95 SEP 2 SEP O SEP 90 SEP 0.8 SEP 95 tb SEP 2 SEP 0.045 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP MgCO3 SEP 10 SEP 99 SEP 1 SEP 93 SEP 0.7 SEP 92 tb SEP t3r SEP lo tb SEP IrW tb SEP I SEP O SEP a, SEP tb SEP O SEP az SEP tb SEP 4 SEP 0.02 SEP 45 SEP 0.01 SEP SrCO3 SEP 1 SEP 96 SEP 2 SEP 90 SEP 0.8 SEP 96 tb SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 4J ri SEP 50 SEP 0.04 SEP SrCO3 SEP 10 SEP 98 SEP 1 SEP CUR SEP ae SEP 95 SEP oo SEP co SEP o SEP 90 tb SEP k SEP ri SEP Im tb SEP Plb tb SEP SEP . tb SEP 7 SEP a, SEP R tb SEP cc, SEP 60 SEP 0.015 SEP CaF2 SEP 1 SEP 96 SEP 2 SEP 94 SEP 0.9 SEP 100 tb SEP commat SEP tb SEP 9 SEP 0.05 SEP 65 SEP 0.045 SEP CaF2 SEP 10 SEP 99 SEP 1 SEP 95 SEP 0.8 SEP 98 tb kc, SEP 0.025 SEP O tb k tb SEP k SEP 0 SEP H SEP 11 SEP V SEP a SEP cud SEP 0.038 SEP 80 SEP u, SEP co SEP co SEP 10 SEP 98 SEP 1 SEP 85 SEP 0.8 SEP 89 tb SEP 12 SEP 0.038 SEP 50 SEP 0.01 SEP A203 SEP 1 SEP 98 SEP 1 SEP 85 SEP 1.0 SEP 85 tb SEP 0 SEP ri SEP m tb SEP 13 SEP 0.038 SEP 50 SEP 0.03 SEP A2O3 SEP 10 SEP 99 SEP 1 SEP 85 SEP 1.0 SEP 82 tb SEP 14 SEP 0.05 SEP 50 SEP 0.05 SEP AF3 SEP 10 SEP 98 SEP 1 SEP 90 SEP 1.0 SEP 105 tb SEP commat SEP tb SEP SEP 50 SEP 0.03 SEP Fe203 SEP 1 SEP tb SEP ridr c, SEP cC SEP 1 tb SEP 17 SEP a SEP o SEP 0.035 SEP 50 SEP 0.025 SEP SnO2 SEP 1 SEP 97 SEP 1 SEP 93 SEP o SEP 1.1 SEP 100 tb SEP 18 SEP 0.035 SEP 50 SEP ri SEP ri SEP ri SEP 10 SEP 98 SEP O SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP O92 SEP 0.9 SEP 105 tb SEP rd SEP 3 tb SEP X SEP 0.035 SEP n SEP 0.03 SEP Nb2O5 SEP X SEP 98 SEP X SEP 90 SEP cu SEP O tb SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP N SEP CS SEP N SEP N SEP O SEP O SEP n SEP O SEP N SEP N SEP O tb SEP t SEP U SEP t SEP t SEP t SEP h SEP h SEP 1h SEP h SEP N SEP N SEP , SEP Z SEP N SEP O SEP O SEP Cq tb SEP t18 SEP b SEP S SEP O SEP C SEP C SEP Q tb SEP SEP U SEP U SEP O SEP U SEP verbar SEP Z tb SEP C SEP U tb SEP ,1 SEP commat SEP SEP N SEP v SEP H SEP v SEP n SEP v SEP H SEP v SEP N SEP n SEP H SEP n SEP m SEP N SEP n SEP N SEP n SEP n tb SEP SEP N SEP g SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O tb SEP C SEP O SEP bF SEP SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O tb SEP C tb SEP R SEP X SEP m SEP X tb SEP U SEP e SEP cx SEP z tb SEP u SEP O SEP D SEP r SEP O SEP O SEP ur SEP m SEP O SEP O SEP un SEP O SEP ur SEP m SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O tb SEP U SEP O SEP e SEP n SEP d SEP er SEP er SEP er SEP er SEP tD SEP W SEP b SEP tn SEP tn SEP tn SEP tn SEP un SEP tn SEP m tb SEP verbar z SEP 3 tb SEP e tb SEP U SEP SEP S SEP S SEP S SEP S SEP m SEP m SEP S SEP m SEP S SEP S tb SEP H SEP ,1 SEP O SEP n SEP v SEP m SEP N SEP N SEP H SEP n SEP n SEP n SEP N SEP n SEP X SEP n SEP S SEP n SEP n SEP n SEP n tb SEP I SEP e SEP N SEP g SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O tb SEP . SEP t7 SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O tb SEP H SEP N SEP X SEP SEP o SEP H SEP N SEP n SEP v SEP ur SEP VD SEP SEP 00 SEP cre tb SEP H SEP H SEP SEP H SEP H SEP SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H tb SEP . SEP . SEP saldmex SEP i tb Table cont d EMI8.1 tb SEP 0 SEP O SEP N SEP O SEP V1 SEP O SEP O SEP n SEP o SEP o SEP In SEP m SEP o SEP cD SEP m SEP o SEP m SEP o SEP te tb SEP ffi SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP H SEP co SEP SEP r SEP b SEP XD SEP b SEP b SEP W SEP 0 SEP W SEP vD tb SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H tb SEP 20 SEP 0.035 SEP 50 SEP 0.03 SEP La203 SEP 10 SEP 98 SEP 1 SEP 92 SEP F SEP ir, SEP 90 tb SEP 21 SEP cD SEP 0.035 SEP 50 SEP 0.03 SEP Cr2O3 SEP 10 SEP H SEP o SEP o SEP o97 SEP 1 SEP 90 SEP 0 SEP 0.8 SEP 90 tb SEP 22 SEP 0.035 SEP 50 SEP 0.03 SEP CeO2 SEP 10 SEP 98 SEP 2 SEP 90 SEP tb SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP 0.03 SEP CrC2 SEP 1 SEP 98 SEP 1 SEP 88 SEP 0.8 SEP 90 tb tb SEP 24 SEP 0.035 SEP 50 SEP 0.03 SEP BaCO SEP 1 SEP 95 SEP 2 SEP 93 SEP 0.9 SEP 95 tb H SEP 3 tb SEP 25 SEP 0.035 SEP 50 SEP 0.03 SEP BaCO3 SEP 10 SEP 99 SEP 1 SEP 90 SEP 0.8 SEP 100 tb SEP 26 SEP O SEP O SEP CO SEP n SEP 0.03 SEP CaCO3 SEP UZ SEP O SEP MgC63 SEP 3 SEP U1 SEP CM SEP 95 SEP O SEP LN SEP UN SEP O tb SEP 27 SEP 0.035 SEP 50 SEP 0.03 SEP A2O3 SEP 3 SEP SEP MgCO3 SEP 3 SEP SEP 99 SEP 1 SEP 95 SEP 0.7 SEP 105 tb SEP CaCO3 SEP 3 tb SEP 28 SEP 0.035 SEP 50 SEP 0.03 SEP CaCO3 SEP 5 SEP N SEP Fe203 SEP 3 SEP 99 SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP 110 tb SEP Q SEP 0.06 SEP 50 SEP 0.06 SEP CaCO3 SEP 10 SEP m SEP 95 SEP . SEP 75 SEP 0.9 SEP 80 tb SEP 2 SEP Q SEP Q SEP 0.08 SEP 50 SEP 0.06 SEP 10 SEP 98 SEP 2 SEP 75 SEP Q SEP 1.1 SEP 75 tb C, tb SEP 3 SEP 0.06 SEP 50 SEP 0.08 SEP MgCO3 SEP 10 SEP 98 SEP 2 SEP 75 SEP 1.0 SEP 73 tb SEP 4 SEP 0.05 SEP 50 SEP 0.1 SEP 10 SEP 99 SEP 3 SEP 70 SEP 0.9 SEP 70 tb C, SEP 0.04 SEP 50 SEP 0.1 SEP At2O3 SEP 10 SEP 95 SEP 2 SEP 70 SEP 0.9 SEP 68 tb SEP mm SEP 6 SEP 0.03 SEP 50 SEP 0.08 SEP Fe203 SEP 5 SEP 98 SEP 2 SEP 75 SEP 0.8 SEP 75 tb SEP X SEP 7 SEP 0.08 SEP 50 SEP 0.08 SEP CaCO3 SEP 5 SEP 98 SEP 2 SEP 72 SEP 1.0 SEP 70 tb SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb U SEP 0.1 SEP U SEP N tb z SEP S SEP h tb SEP o SEP O SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP 0.08 SEP n SEP 96 SEP m SEP O SEP o SEP o SEP 1.3 SEP 60 tb SEP 10 SEP 0.5 SEP 50 SEP rlrlrlri tb SEP Ln SEP m SEP cu, tb SEP 0 tb SEP 11 SEP 1.0 SEP Q SEP 0.08 SEP 5 SEP ú SEP 95 SEP ON SEP 2 SEP 50 SEP 1.8 SEP 67 tb SEP ff SEP f tb SEP a SEP u SEP u SEP u SEP m SEP m SEP u SEP SEP u SEP u SEP z SEP SEP h SEP u tb SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP O SEP O SEP H SEP SEP o SEP O SEP o SEP O SEP O SEP o tb SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP o SEP O SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o tb SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o. SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o tb SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP H SEP H SEP S SEP o tb SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP H tb SEP o SEP H SEP N SEP n SEP s SEP D SEP SEP CO SEP H SEP CM SEP cn SEP o SEP tb SEP Cs SEP N SEP N SEP FI SEP CS SEP FI SEP CS SEP SEP i tb SEP L SEP saldmexa SEP saldwwxa SEP ax SEP duoD tb Grain size Calculated from BET specific surface. Measurement of proportion of a type silicon nitride X ray powder diffraction method.Bending strength three point bending method Sample size 3 x 3 x 30 mm Span 20 mm Cross head speed 0.5 mm minute.As is also clear from the above mentioned Examples andComparative examples, the powdery silicon nitride composition prepared by addition of a specific metal or its compound followed by reduction and nitriding is obtainable in a shortened time and is noticeably economical.Further, the sintered body obtained by sintering the aforesaid composition is excellent in strength.