# Sieve belt convoyer with adjustable mesh size.

## Abstract
A conveyor belt, for example, for use in agricultural digging machines, said belt mainly comprising two or more parallel, endless, flexible carriers 1, 2 passed around re versing rollers 7, 8 and rod shaped elements 3, 4 extend ing between them wherein the flexible carriers 1, 2 are divided into two groups and the rod shaped elements 3, 4 alternately extend between one and the other group of carriers respectively, whereas the distance between two neignbouring rods 3, 4 can be varied so easily adapting the belt for various products to be dug up.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A sieve belt for use, for example, in agricultural digging machines, mainly comprising two or more parallel, endless, flexible carriers to be passed around reversing elements and rod shaped elements extending between the same characterized in that the flexible carriers are divided into two groups and the rod shaped elements alternately extend between one and the other group. of carriers. 2. A sieve belt as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that each group has one or more intermediate carriers extending beneath the rod shaped elements. 3. A sieve belt as claimed in claims 1 and 2, characterized in that at least the outermost carriers of a group have recesses regularly disposed side by side on the side remote from the rods. 4. A conveyor comprising at least two reversing elements and a sieve belt arranged around the same as claimed in anyone of the preceding claims characterized in that each reversing element is provided with roller members supporting the carriers of one group and those of the other group respectively, adjusting means being prcvided for setting the angle between the roller members of one group with respect to those of the other group. 5. A conveyor as claimed in claim 4 characterized in that the roller members of one group can be radially turned with respect to a shaft supporting the roller members of the other group. 6 A conveyor as claimed in claim 5, characterized in that the roller members of one group as well as the hollow shaft each has a setting slot through which is axially displaceable a pin which is centrally displaceable through said hollow shaft.

## Description
Sieve belt with adjustable mesh size The invention relates to a conveyor belt, for example, for use in agricultural digging machines, said belt mainly comprising two or more parallel, endless flexible carriers passed around reversing elements and rod shaped elements extending between them Such a belt is frequently employed in digging machines, in which the dug up product is conducted away with an amount of earth. The earth and the products smaller than a given size can drop down between the rod shaped elements of the belt so that the desired product can be stored for further processing. The invention has for its object to improve the belt of the kind set forth in a manner such that the mesh size, that is to say, the distance between two neighbouring rods can be varied so tat the user can employ the belt for various purposes or various products to be dug up. The belt embodying the invention is distinguished in that the flexible carriers are divided into two groups and the rod shaped elements alternately extend between one and the other group of carriers respectively. This group wise arrangement of the rods permits of moving adjacent rods towards or away from one another so that smaller or larger meshes respectively are formed. In order to maintain the unity of the belt it is preferred to equip each group with one or more intermediate carriers extending beneath the rod shaped elements.Thus the groups each comprising rod shaped elements and carriers are interwoven. In order to ensure a slip free drive and an accurate adjustment the carriers have recesses regularly disposed side by side in their sides remote from the rods. The invention furthermore relates to a conveyor comprising a belt of the kind set forth in the pream ble, said conveyor being provided with reversing elements formed by rollers, the rollers of one group being angularly adjustable with respect to the other group. The invention will be described more fully with reference to the drawing showing one embodiment. The drawing shows in Fig. 1 a plan view of a belt embodying the invention, Fig. 2 a perspective view of part of a conveyor provided with a velt as shown in fig. 1. The belt illustrated in the figures mainly comprises a plurality of carriers 1, 2 extending parallel to one another and being formed, for example, by continuous rubber strips of given lengths. Between the carriers 1 a plurality of rod shaped elements 3 exend in transverse direction this alsÏ applies to the elements 4 of the carriers 2. Thus each time two groups of carriers 1 with transverse elements 3 and carriers 2 with transverse elements 4 are obtained.Thanks to the arrangement of two groups a shift of the transverse elements 3 with respect to the elements 4 can be performed so that the mesh size a can be changed, for example, into the meash size b. This can be carried out by displacing the carriers 1 with respect to the carriers 2. Fig. 2 shows in a perspective view how such a belt can be used in a conveyor. The conveyor is provided with two or more reversing elements 5 each formed by a hollow roller shaft 6 on which toothed wheels 7 are firmly secured. At the side of the toothed wheels 7 the hollow shaft 6 is provided with freely rotatable wheels 8, each having a hub 9. Each wheel 7 carries, for example, the carriers 1 of the first group of the belt, whereas the wheels 8 support the carriers 2. The carriers 1 can be shifted in place with respect to the carriers 2 by a angular turn of the wheels 7 with respect to the wheels 8. For this purpose each hub 9 has a helical recess 10, whilst an axially extending, straight recess 11 is provided in the hollow shaft 6. Through the two recesses 10, 11 extends a pin 12, which is connected with a pull rod 13 arranged in the hollow shaft 6.By displacing the rod 13 in an axial direction with respect to the hollow shaft 6 the pin 12 will axially reciprocate in the slot 11, said movement resulting in a turn of the hub 9 and, respectively, the wheel 8 with respect to the hollow shaft 6 owing to the helical shape of the slot 11 The hollow shaft 6 may be driven, but it may, as an alternative, be freely rotatable in which a further reversing element comprises the driving motor not lying within the scope of the present invention The ensure a slip free drive and adjustment each carrier 1, 2 has recesses on the sides remote from the rods 3, 4 in order to obtain a serrated profile 14 co operating with the toothed outer surfaces of the wheels 7, 8. It is finally noted that at the side of the outermost carriers 1, 2 the belt of fig. 1 is provided with one pair of intermediate carriers 1 , 2 extending beneath the rods 3, 4. In this way the groups are interwoven so that in the dismounted state the belt remains a single unit. The invention is not limited to the embodiment Gzscribed above since the number of carriers 1, 2 the shape d the angle of the transverse elements to the associated carriers may be chosen differently.