# Antibacterial compounds containing beta lactams, processes for their preparation and their use.

## Abstract
A 3 carboxyclavam derivative with a butylidene moiety at the 2 position of the clavam nucleus, having the formula III

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A 3 carboxyclavam derivative characterised in that it comprises a butylidene moiety at the 2 position of the clavam nucleus. 2. A compound as claimed in claim 1 having the formula III EMI112.1 or a salt or ester thereof wherein X is hydrogen, hydroxy, substituted hydroxy, mercapto, substituted mercapto, azido, cyano, halo, nitro, amino, substituted amino, isothiocyanato, or X represents the residue of a carbon nucleophile or is an activated aryl or heteroaryl group. 3. A compound as claimed in claim 2 having the Z sterochemistry about the double bond. 4. A compound as claimed in either of claims 2 or 3 in the form of the free acid or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester thereof. 5. A compound as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 4 wherein X is hydroxy, Cl lO alkoxy C 1 10 a lkanoyloxy, benzoyloxy, C1 10 alkylthio, benzoylthio, azido, halo, nitro, amino, C1 10 alkylamino, C1 10 alkanoyl amino, arylsulphonylamino or heterocyclic. 6. A compound as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 5 wherein X is hydroxy. 7. A process for the preparation of a compound as claimed in claim 2 which process comprises the reduction of a compound of formula V EMI113.1 where Ra is hydrogen or a carboxy blocking group and Y is an oxygen or sulphur atom, and thereafter if necessary i converting the product of formula III wherein X is hydroxy or mercapto to a compound of formula III wherein X is other than hydroxy or mercapto 11 removing any carboxy blocking group Ra iii converting the product into a salt or ester. 8. A pharmaceutical composition which comprises a compound as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6 in the form of the free acid or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester, together with a pharmaceutical acceptable carrier. 9. A composition as claimed in claim 8 which further comprises a antibacterially active S lactam compound. 10. A composition as claimed in claim 9 wherein the S lactam is a penicillin or cephalosporin.

## Description
ANTIBACTERIAL AGENTS, PROCESSES FOR THEIR PREPARATION AND THEIR USE Thzs invention relates to novel P lactam containing compounds, their preparation and their use, and in particular to a novel class of clavams. These compounds have antibacterial and ss lactamase inhibitory properties, and therefore are of use in the treatment of bacterial infection either alone or in a synergistic composition with other P lactam antibacterial agents, such as penicillins and cephalosporins. ClÅavulanic acid has the structure EMI1.1 and is described in U.K. Patent Number 1508977. Many derivatives of that compound are known. Clavulanic acid and its derivatives have in common the 3 carboxy 2 ethylidene clavam nucleus, i.e. the moiety of the structure EMI2.1 We have now produced a novel nucleus having a chain of four carbon atoms attached to the 2 position of the clavam. Accordingly the present invention provides a 3 carboxyclavam derivative characterised in that it comprises a butylidene moiety at the 2 position of the clavam nucleus. The invention therefore comprises compounds having the residue of the formula I EMI2.2 and salts and esters thereof. The compounds of this invention can be considered to comprise 2 4 hydroxybutylidene clavam 3 carboxylic acid of the formula II and derivatives thereof EMI3.1 In particular the present invention includes compounds of the formula III EMI3.2 and salts and esters thereof, wherein X is hydrogen, hydroxy, substituted hydroxy such as etherified hydroxy or acylated hydroxy mercapto, substituted mercapto such as etherified mercapto or acylated mercapto azido, cyano, halo, nitro, amino, isothiocyanato, substituted amino such as alkylated amino or acylated amino, or X represents the residue of a carbon nucleophile or is an activated aryl or heteroaryl group. In one aspect X is hydroxy or substituted hydroxy such as etherified hydroxy or acylated hydroxy, mercapto or substituted mercapto such as etherified mercapto or acylated mercapto, azido, cyano, nitro, isothiocyanato, halo, amino or substituted amino such as alkylated amino or acylated amino, or X represents the residue of a carbon nucleophile or is an activated aryl or heteroaryl group. Suitably the compounds of the formula III are presented with Z stereochemistry about the double bond, that is to say they may be represented as in formula IV EMI4.1 Suitably X is hydroxy or substituted hydroxy.Examples of substituted hydroxy groups include ORÚ, OCOR1, OCSR1, OC02R1, OCS2R1, OCOSR1, OCSOR1, OS03H, OP03H, OSO2Rl and OCONRêR wherein RÚ, R2 and R3 are independently substituted or unsubstituted hydrocarbon groups of 1 to 20 carbon atoms. More. suitably R1 is C1 10 alkyl, C2,10 alkenyl, aryl C1 6 alkyl, heterocyclyl C1 6 alkyl, aryl C2 6 alkenyl, heteroaryl C1 6 alkyl, C3 8 cycloalkyl, aryl, heteroaryl, heterocyclyl or C38 cycloalkyl C1 6 alkyl, any of such groups being optionally substituted. Suitable optional substituents for the group R1 include C1 6 alkyl, amino, C1 6 alkanoylamino, mono , di and tri C1,6 alkylamino, hydroxy, C1 6 alkoxy, mercapto, C1 6 alkylthio, heteroarylthio, arylthio, oxo, sulphamoyl, carbamoyl, amidino, guanidino, nitro, chloro, bromo, fluoro, carboxy and salts and esters thereof, C1,6 alkanoyloxy, arylcarbbnyl and heteroarylcarbonyl. In one favourable aspect X is C1 6 alkoxy or benzyloxy optionally substituted by one, two or three halogen atoms, cyano, azido, hydroxy, C1,6 alkoxy, C2 6 alkanoyloxy, C1 4 alkylthio, aryloxy such as phenoxy, amino, C 1 6 alkanoylamino, carboxy or esterified carboxy. Preferably X is methoxy or ethoxy. In another aspect X is C1 6 alkanoyloxy sch as acetoxy, C1 6 alkyl sulphonyloxy such as methanesulphonyloxy or arylsulphonyloxy such as p toluenesulphonyloxy. Suitably X is Inercapto or substituted mercapto.Examples of substituted mercapto groups include SCOR4. S R4, SCSR4, SCO2R4, SCS2R4, SCOSR4, SCSOR4, SSO2R4, SCONR5R6, S O R4, S O 2R4 and S SR r wherein in R2 and R6 are independently substituted or unsubstituted hydrocarbon groups of 1 to 20 carbon atoms. Suitably substituents for R4, R5 and R6 include those described hereinabove as being suitable as substitutents for R1. More suitably R4 is a C1 10 alkyl, Cm 10 alkenyl, aryl C1 6 alkyl, heterocyclyl C1 6 alkyl, aryl C2 6 alkenyl, C38 cycloalkyl C1 6 alkyl, heterocyclyl, heterocyclyl C16 alkyl, aryl, heteroaryl, heteroaryl C1 6 alkyl or C3 8 cycloalkyl group, any of such groups being optionally substituted. Most suitably X is a group S O nR7 wherein n is zero, one or two, and R7 is benzyl, C1 6 alkyl,C2 6 6 alkenyl, aryl or heteroaryl, any of such groupsR being optionally substituted by one, two or three halogen atoms, azido, hydroxy, C1 6 alkoxy, C2 6 alkanoyloxy, C1 4 alkylthio, aryloxy such as phenoxy, amino, C1 6 alkanoylamino, carboxy or esterified carboxy. Preferably X is S O nR7 wherein n is zero or two, and R7 is C1 6 alkyl such as methyl, benzyl, phenyl or tetrazolyl. Suitably X is amino NH2 or substituted amino. 10Examples of substituted amino groups include NHR NR10RÚÚ, NR10RÚêRÚê, NHCXÚR10, NHCXÚZR10, NHSO2R10, NHCXÚNR10RÚÚ, N CXÚRÚê RÚ , N CXÚRÚê CZRÚ , N CXÚRÚ ZRÚ N CXÚZRÚê RÚ and N CXÚZRÚê CXÚZRÚ wherein XÚ and Z are each oxygen or sulphur and R10, RÚÚ, RÚê and RÚ are independently substituted or unsubstituted hydrocarbon groups of 1 to 20 carbon atoms. Suitably substituents for R1O R13 include those described hereinabove as being suitable as substituents for RÚ. Additionally the groupsR10 and RÚÚ, or alternatively the groups RÚê and RÚ , may be joined to form a heterocyclic ring cohtaining from three to ten carbon atoms and not more than four heteroatoms selected from oxygen, nitrogen and sulphur. More suitably R10, RÚÚ, RÚê and R13 are independently selected from C1 10alkyl, C2 10alkenyl, aryl C1 6 alkyl, heterocyclyl C1 6 alkyl, aryl C2 6 alkenyl,C3 8 cycloalkyl, C3 8 cycloalkyl C1 6 alkyl, heterocyclyl, heterocyclyl C1 6 alkyl, aryl, heteroaryl and heteroaryl C1 6 alkyl, any of such groups being optionally substituted. Most suitably X is amino, C1 6 alkylamino such as methylamino, ethylamino, propylamino and butylamino, di Cl 6 alkylamino such as diethylamino, benzylamino, C1 6 alkanoylamino such as acetamido, succinimido or phthalimide, any of such groups except amino being optionally substituted by one, two or three halogen atoms, azido, hydroxy, C1 6 alkoxy, C2 6 alkanoyloxy, C14 alkylthio, aryloxy such as phenoxy, amino, C1 6 alkanoylamino, carboxy or esterified carboxy. Preferably X is amino, C1 6 alkylamino, benzylamino, C 6 alkanoylamino or di C1 6 alkylamino. Suitably X is an aryl or heteroaryl group for example bonded to the adjacent CH2 group via a carbon atom, for example phenyl, furyl, pyrrolyl, thienyl and such ring systems fused to a benzene ring, any of such groups being optionally substituted. Other heterocyclic groups for X include tetrazolyl and trioxoimidazolidinyl, optionally substituted withC1 6 alkyl or C16 alkoxycarbonyl. Suitably X is the residue of a carbon nucleophile 14p15p16 wherein and p15 such as of the sub formula CR R R wherein R and R are the same or different and at least one of them represents a group capable of producing a stabilised carbanion, such as an electron withdrawing group, andR16 is hydrogen or a substituted or unsubstituted hydrocarbon group of 1 to 20 carbon atoms. Thus p14 and R15 may be selected from groups CXÚR10 and CXÚZX10 as previously described. Similarly R16 may be defined as for R10 hereinabove. More suitably X is CH COOR17 COR18 or CH COR17 COR18 wherein R17 and R18 are independently selected from C1 10 alkyl, C3 8 cycloalkyl, aryl such as phenyl, aryl C1 6 alkyl such as benzyl, any of groups R17 and R18 being optionally substituted by one, two or three halogen atoms, azido, hydroxy, C1 6 alkoxy,C2 6 alkanoyloxy, C1 4 alkylthio, aryloxy such as phenoxy, amino C1 6 alkanoylamino, carboxy or esterified carboxy, Preferably X is CH COCH3 2. Suitably also X is azido or cyano. Aptly X is a hydrogen atom or a halo moiety for example iodo, bromo or chloro. Compounds wherein X is azido or halo are of particular interest as useful chemical intermediates. The major utility of the compounds of the formulae I IV and salts and esters thereof is as pharmaceuticals and accordingly the salts and esters of the compounds of the formulae I IV are preferably pharmaceutically acceptable. The compounds of this invention both pharmaceutically acceptable and nonpharmaceutically acceptable may be used as intermediates and also as antibacterial agents or t3 lactamase inhibitors in non pharmaceutical usage such as a disinfectant or paint additive. Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compounds of the formula I IV include metal salts such as aluminium, alkali metal salts such as sodium and potassium, and alkaline earth metal salts such as calcium or magnesium and ammonium and substituted ammonium salts, for example those with lower alkylamines such as triethylamine, cycloalkylamines such as bicyclohexylamine, l ephen amine N ethylpiperidine and N benzyl P phenethylamine. Non pharmaceutically acceptable salts of use as intermediates include the lithium and silver salts. Suitable esters of the compounds of the formulae I IV include those cleavable by biological methods such as enzy matic hydrolysis, in vivo hydrolysis, and those cleavable by chemical methods such as hydrogenolysis, hydrolysis, electrolysis or photolysis. Suitably the carboxylic acid is esterified by a group of the sub formula a , b , c , d , e or f EMI11.1 wherein AÚ is a hydrogen atom, C1 6 alkanoyl or an C1 5 alkyl group optionally substituted by C1 7 alkoxy orC1 7 carboxylic acyloxy, or an alkenyl or alkynyl group of up to 5 carbon atoms Aê is a hydrogen atom or a methyl group A is a phenyl group or a phenyl group substituted by a fluorine, chlorine or bromine atom or a nitro, C1 3 alkyl or C1 3 alkoxy group A4 is a hydrogen atom or a phenyl group or phenyl group substituted by a fluorine, chlorine or bromine atom or a nitro, C1 3 alkyl or C1 3 alkoxy group A4 is a hydrogen atom or a methyl group A6 is a C1 4 alkyl, phenyl or C1 4 alkoxy group or A5 is joined to A6 to form a phthalidyl, dimethylphthalidyl or dimethoxyphthalidyl group A7 is a C1 4 alkyl, phenyl, chlorophenyl or nitrophenyl group A is a C 1 4 alkyl or phenyl group A9 is a C1 4 alkyl or phenyl group A is C1 4 alkyl and A11 is C1 4 alkyl or CHA1Aê is a phenacyl or bromophenacyl group. Favourably A1 is a hydrogen atom or a methyl, ethyl, vinyl or ethenyl group. Favourably Aê is a hydrogen atom. Favourably A is a phenyl, p bromophenyl, p methoxyphenyl or p nitrophenyl group. Favourably A4 is a hydrogen atom. Favourably A6 is a methyl, t butyl or ethoxy group or is joined to A5. Favourably A7 is a methyl group. Preferred groups of the sub formula a include the methyl, ethyl and acetonyl groups. Preferred groups of the sub formula b include the benzyl and p nitrobenzyl groups. Preferred groups of the sub formula c include the acetoxymethyl, pivaloyloxymethyl, a ethoxycarbonyloxymethyl and phthalidyl groups. A preferred group of the sub formula d is the methoxymethyl group. Preferred groups of the sub formula e include the trimethylsilyl, tert butyldimethylsilyl and tertbutyldiphenylsilyl groups. A preferred group of the sub formula f is p methoxycarbonylbenzyl. Particularly preferred esterifying groups are the p nitrobenzyl and phthalidyl groups. Pharmaceutically acceptable in vivo hydrolysable esters are those esters which hydrolyse in the human body to produce the parent acid or itsisalt. Such esters may be identified by administration to a test animal such as a rat or mouse by intravenous administration and thereafter examining the test animal s body fluids for the presence of the compound of the formulae I rv or salt. Suitable esters of this type include those of sub formula c as hereinbefore defined. Further suitable esters include di C1 6 alkylamino C1,6 alkyl esters such as dimethylaminomethyl, dimethyl aminoethyl, diethylaminomethyl and diethylaminoethyl. Esters of the compounds of the formulae T iV such as those of the sub formula a f if desired, may be presented in the form of their acid addition salts if an amino group is present in group X. The acid used to form the salt will most suitably be pharmaceutically acceptable, but non pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts are also envisaged, for example as intermediates in the preparation of the pharmaceutically acceptable salts by ion exchange. Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts include those of inorganic and organic acids, such as hydrochloric, phosphoric, sulphuric, methanesulphonic, toluenesulphonic, citric, malic, acetic, lactic, tartaric, propionic and succinic acid. Most suitably the acid addition salt is provided as a solid and preferably as acrystalline solid. Compounds of this invention when in crystalline form may be solvated, for example hydrated. The present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition which comprises a compound of the formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or pharmaceutically acceptable ester thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The compositions of the invention include those in a form adapted for oral, topical or parenteral use and may be used for the treatment of infection in animals for example mammals including humans. Suitable forms of the compositions of this invention include tablets, capsules, creams, syrups, suspensions, solutions, reconstitutable powders and sterile forms suitable for injection or infusion. Such compositions may contain conventional pharmaceutically acceptable materials such as diluents, binders, colours, flavours, preservatives, disintegrant and the like in accordance with conventional pharmaceutical practice in the manner well understood by those skilled in the art of formulating antibiotics. Injectable or infusable compositions of a compound of the invention are particularly suitable as high blood levels of the compound can occur after administration by injection or infusion. Thus, one preferred composition aspect of this invention comprises a compound of the invention in sterile form and most suitably in sterile crystalline form. The injectable solution of the compound of this invention may be made up in a sterile pyrogen free liquid such as water, aqueous ethanol or the like. An alternative approach to administering the compounds of this invention is to utilise an injectable suspension. Such suspensions may be made up in sterile water sterile saline or the like, and may also contain suspending agents such as polyvinylpyrrolidone, lecithin or the like. Alternatively such compositions may be prepared in an acceptable oil suspending agent such as arachis oil or its equivalent. For use in such suspensions the compounds of this invention should be in the form of fine particles. Unit dose compositions comprising a compound of this invention adapted for oral administration form a further suitable composition aspect of this invention. Unit dose compositions comprising a compound of this invention adapted for topical administration are also presented by this invention. In this instance topical administration also includes local administration to internal surfaces of mammary glands of cattle, for example during the treatment of mastitis by intra mammary administration. The compound of the invention may be present in the composition as sole therapeutic agent or it may be present together with other therapeutic agents such as a penicillin or cephalosporin. Considerable advantages accrue from the inclusion of a penicillin or cephalosporin which shows instability to ss lactamases since the resulting composition shows enhanced effectiveness synergy . Suitable penicillins, cephalosporins or other ss lactam antibiotics for inclusion in such synergistic compositions include not only those known to be highly susceptible to P lactamases but also those which have a degree of intrinsic resistance toP lactamases. Suitable penicillins for inclusion in the compositions of this invention include benzylpenicillin, phenoxymethylpenicillin, carbenicillin, azidocillin, propicillin, ampicillin, amoxycillin, epicillin, ticarcillin, cyclacillin, pirbenicillin, azlocillin, mezlocillin, sulbenicillin, piperacillin, and other known penicillins including pro drugs therefor such as their in vivo hydrolysable esters such as the acetoxymethyl, pivaloyloxymethyl, a ethoxycarbonyloxyethyl or phthalidyl esters of ampicillin, benzylpenicillin or amoxycillin, and aldehyde or ketone adducts of penicillins containing a 6 a aminoacetamide side chain such as hetacillin, metampicillin and analogous derivatives of amoxycillin or a esters of carbenicillin or ticarcillin such as their phenyl or indanyl a esters. A further group of suitable penicillins of interest for inclusion in the compositions of this invention include benzylpenicillin, phenoxymethyl penicillin, carbenicillin, azidocillin, propicillin, amoxycillin, epicillin, ticarcillin, cyclacillin, pirbenicillin, azlocillin, mezlocillin, sulbenicillin, piperacillin, and other known penicillins including pro drugs therefor such as their in vivo hydrolysable esters such as the acetoxymethyl, pivaloyloxymethyl, a ethoxycarbonyloxyethyl or phthalidyl esters of benzylpenicillin or amoxycillin, and a esters of carbenicillin or ticarcillin such as their phenyl or indanyl a esters. Suitable cephalosporins for inclusion in the compositions of this invention include cefatrizine, cephaloridine, cephalothin, cefazolin, cephalexin, cephacetrile, cephamandole nafate, cephapirin, cephradine, 4 hydroxycephalexin, cefaparole, cephaloglycin, cefoperazone and other known cephalosporins or pro drugs thereof. Such compounds are frequently used in the form of a salt or hydrate or the like. Naturally if the penicillin or cephalosporin present in the composition is not suitable for oral administration then the composition will be adapted for parenteral administration. Highly favoured penicillins for use in the compositions of this invention include ampicillin, amoxycillin, carbenicillin and ticarcillin. Such penicillins may be used as a pharmaceutically acceptable salt such as the sodium salt. Alternatively the ampicillin or amoxycillin may be used in the form of fine particles of the zwitterionic form generally as ampicillin trihydrate or amoxycillin trihydrate for use in an injectable suspension, for example in the manner hereinbefore described for a compound of this invention. The preferred penicillin for use in the synergistic composition is amoxycillin, for example as its sodium salt or trihydrate. Particularly suitable cephalosporins for use in the compositions of this invention include cephaloridine and cefazolin which may be in the form of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt for example the sodium salt. When present together with a cephalosporin or penicillin, the ratio of a compound of the invention to the penicillin or cephalosporin agent may vary over a wide range of ratios, such as from 10 1 to 1 10 for example about 3 1, 2 1, 1 1, 1 2, 1 3, 1 4, 1 5 or 1 6, wt wt, based on pure free antibiotic equivalent . Orally administrable compositions containing a compound of the invention will normally contain relatively more synergist than corresponding injectable compositions. The total quantity of a compound of the invention in any unit dosage form will normally be between 25 and 1000 mg and will usually be between 50 and 500 mg, for example about 62.5, 100, 125, 150, 200 or 250 mg. Compositions of this invention may be used for the treatment of infections of animals, for example mammals including humans, such infections being inter alia of the respiratory tract, the urinary tract and soft tissues in humans and mastitis in cattle. Normally between 50 and 3000 mg of the compounds of the invention will be administered per day, for example at 1 6 doses, more usually as 2, 3 or 4 doses.However, for the treatment of more severe systemic infections or infections of particularly intransigent organisms higher doses may be used in accordance with clinical practice. The penicillin or cephalosporin in the synergistic composition of this invention will normally be present at approximately the amount at which it is conventionally used which will usually be expected to be from about 62.5 to 3000 mg per dose, more usually about 125, 250, 500 or 1000 mg per dose. One particularly favoured composition of this invention will contain from 150 to 1000 mg of amoxycillin as the trihydrate or sodium salt and from 25 to 500 mg of a compound of this invention. A further particularly favoured composition of this invention will contain from 150 to 1000 mg of ampicillin or a pro drug therefor and from 25 to 500 mg of a compound of this invention. Most suitably this form of composition will contain ampicillin trihydrate, ampicillin anhydrate, sodium ampicillin, hetacillin, pivampicillin hydrochloride, bacampicillin hydrochloride, or talampicillin hydrochloride.Most suitably this form of the composition will contain a compound of this invention when in crystalline form. Most suitably the preceding composition will contain from 200 to 700 mg of the penicillin component. Most suitably the preceding composition will comprise from 50 to 250 mg of a compound of this invention preferably in crystalline form. Such compositions may be adapted for oral or parenteral use except when containing an in vivo hydrolysable ester of ampicillin or amoxycillin in which case the compositions will not be adapted for parenteral administration. Another particularly favoured composition of this invention will contain from 200 to 2000 mg of carbenicillin, ticarcillin or a pro drug therefor and from 50 to 500 mg of a compound of the invention. Suitably this form of composition will contain di sodium carbenicillin. Suitably this form of the composition will contain di sodium ticarcillin. More suitably this form of the composition will contain from 75 to 250 mg of a compound of this invention preferably in crystalline form. Such compositions containing di salts of carbenicillin and ticarcillin will be adapted for parenteral administration. The present invention also provides a method of treating bacterial infection in humans or domestic mammals which comprises the administration of a composition of this invention. Commonly the infection treated will be due to a strain of Staphylococcus aureus, Klebsiella aeroqenes,Escherichia coli, Proteus sp., Bacteroides fraqilis or the like. The organisms believed to be most readily treated by an antibacterially effective amount of a compound of this invention is Staphylococcus aureus.The other organisms named are more readily treated by using a synergistically effective amount of the compound of the invention and a penicillin or cephalosporin. The administration of the two components may take place separately but in general we prefer to use a composition containing both the synergist and the penicillin or cephalosporin. The indications for treatment include respiratory tract and urinary tract infections in humans and mastitis in cattle. The present invention also provides a process for the preparation of a compound of the formula III and salts and esters thereof which process comprises the reduction of a compound of the formula V EMI24.1 wherein Ra is hydrogen or a carboxy blocking group and Y is an oxygen or sulphur atom, and thereafter if necessary i converting a compound of the formula III wherein X is hydroxy or mercapto to a compound of the formula III wherein X is not hydroxy or mercapto, ii removing any carboxy blocking group Ra iii converting the product into a salt or ester. Preferably in the compounds of the formula V Y is an oxygen atom. The compounds of the formula V are novel and are of use as intermediates. In addition they are active antibacterial agents in their own right. The compounds of the formula V wherein Y is sulphur when used as intermediates are not normally isolated but are prepared and reacted in situ. Compounds of the formula V may be converted to compounds of the formula III wherein X is hydroxy or mercapto by reduction in conventional manner. A suitable method of reduction utilises a complex hydride such as a borohydride, for example lithium borohydride, sodium or potassium borohydride, sodium cyanoborohydride, di isobutyl aluminium hydride or a reagent such as aluminium tri isopropoxide. Such reaction may be performed in an inert organic solvent such as a hydrocarbon, a chlorinated hydrocarbon or an ether, for example toluene, cyclohexane, diethyl ether, heptane, hexane, dichloromethane or tetrahydrofuran. The reaction may be performed at any non extreme temperature for example 300C to 600C, more suitably OOC to 300C and most conveniently at ambient temperature. Compounds of the formula III wherein X is hydroxy or mercapto may be converted to the compounds of the formula III where X is not OH or SH in conventional manner, using methods appropriate to the formation of each functional group. For example, compounds wherein X is halo may be prepared by reaction with a halogenating agent such as a non metallic halide for example phosphorus trichloride, phosphorus tribromide, thionyl chloride, thionyl bromide or the halogenating agent may be a hydrocarbonsulphonyl halide generally used in the presence of halide ions, for example an alkanesulphonyl halide such as methanesulphonylchloride or an arylsulphonyl halide such as p toluenesulphonyl chloride the source of halide ions may be lithium halide or an amine salt. Preferably in the halogenation reaction a base is present such as pyridine, and the reaction is preferably performed at a depressed or ambient temperature for example 600C to 200C.The compounds of the formula III wherein X is iodo are most conveniently prepared by a halogen exchange reaction, reacting the corresponding chloro or bromo compound with a source of iodide ions such as lithium iodide. Compounds of the formula III wherein X is substituted hydroxy or substituted mercapto may be prepared by conventional methods, for example by etherification or acylation. Etherification of OH or SH may be effected by the reaction of a diazoalkane in the presence of a Lewis acid catalyst for example boron trifluoride preferably at a depressed or ambient temperature in an inert solvent. Acylation of OH or SH may be effected by reaction with an acylating agent eg. RCY T or RS02 T wherein T is a leaving group displaceable by a nucleophile.Suitably T is halo such as chloro or bromo, or a sulphonyloxy moiety, for example C16 alkyl or ary sulphonyloxy such as a mesylate or tosylate, or T is a carboxylate moiety, for example a C16 alkanoyloxy group optionally substituted by 1 to 3 halogen atoms, in particular acetoxy or is an arylcarbonyloxy for example benzoyloxy. Preferably such reaction is performed in the presence of a base such as an alkali or alkaline earth metal salt, in particular lithium, sodium or potassium carbonates or an organic base such as an amine for example pyridine or a tertiaryamine and in particular triethylamine. Suitable solvents include chloroform, dichloromethane, tetrahydrofuran, dimethylformamide, dimethylsulphoxide and acetone. Generally the acylation reaction is performed at a non extreme temperature for example at an ambient or slightly depressed temperature, such as 200C to 200C.Alternatively T is a hydroxy group or hydrocarbyloxy for example C 1 6 alkoxy or aryloxy such as phenoxy.When T is hydroxy preferably Y is oxygen and a dehydrating agent such as dicyclohexylcarbodi imide is present. Compounds of the formula III wherein X is azido may be prepared by the reaction of an azide with a compound of the formula III wherein X is a readily displaceable group such as a halogen atom chlorine or bromine or a sulphonyloxy group. The azide is suitably an alkali metal azide such as sodium azide or an organic azide such as tetramethylguanidinium azide or tetrabutylammonium azide. The reaction is preferably performed in an inert polar organic solvent such as acetonitrile, dimethylsulphoxide, ethyl acetate, dichloromethane, acetone or tetrahydrofuran at a non extreme temperature. The compounds of the formula III wherein X is amino may be prepared by the reduction of the aforementioned azido group, for example via catalytic hydrogenation such as over Palladium on carbon, or via dissolving metal reduction for example using zinc and aqueous hydrochloric acid. Compounds of the formula III wherein X is substituted amino may be prepared by the reaction of a compound of the formula III wherein X is amino, for example by alkylation and or acylation. Alkylation of the primary amine NH2 may be effected by reaction with a compound RX wherein X is a leaving group to form a secondary amine NHR . This secondary amine then may be reacted with another compound R C which may be the same or different as the first to a form a tertiary amine NR2 , and subsequently, if desired, a quaternary amine NR3 may be prepared, wherein the substituent groups are the same or different. Suitable groups Xllinclude halo such as iodo and bromo, or a sulphonate such as a C16 alkyl or aryl sulphonate for example methanesulphonate or p toluenesulphonate. Such alkylation reactions are conveniently performed in an inert organic solvent such as dimethylformamide, acetonitrile or dichloromethane, preferably in the presence of strong non nucleophilic organic base at a non extreme temperature such as 200C to 500C, preferably 100C to 200C and most conveniently between OOC and ambient. Suitable organic bases include 1,5 diazabicyclo 4.3.0 non 5 ene and 1,8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undecene. Primary, secondary and tertiary amines also may be prepared by the reaction of a compound of the formula III wherein X is a good leaving group, such as tosyloxy with a secondary amine RNHR0 to form a tertiari amine. One or both of the groups R and R may then be removed, for example by hydrogenation to provide a secondary or primary amine. Acylation of the primary amine NH2 may be effected by reaction with an acylating agent. Apt acylating agents include any N acylating compound suitable for the performance of analogous reactions with 6 aminopenicillanic acid or 7 aminocephalosporanic acid or salts or esters thereof, for example an acid halide, an anhydride or mixed anhydride or other reactive derivative, such as that produced by the reaction of an acid with an enzyme or a condensationpromoting agent such as dicyclohexylcarbodi imide. Thus in general the acylating agent is of the formula RXU where X is a displaceable group, for example halo, sulphonate, carboxylate. The acylating agent also may be a ketene or isocyanate or isothiocyanate or an activated imide.Preferably the acylation reaction is performed in the presence of a base, for example an inorganic base such as an alkali or alkaline earth metal salt, in particular lithium, sodium or potassium carbonates or an organic base such as an amine for example triethylamine. Suitably the reaction is performed in an aprotic organic solvent such as dimethylformamide, acetonitrile, ethyl acetate, dimethyl sulphoxide water may be added to aid solubility if necessary. The reaction is suitably performed at a non extreme temperature, for example between 200C and 400C and preferably at ambient temperatws. Acylation may be effected on the primary amine NH2 once or twice to form the mono acyl or di acyl derivatives, in the di acyl case the acyl groups may be the same or different. Alternatively acylation may be effected on a secondary amine NHR to form theN alkyl N acyl derivative. Di acyl derivatives wherein the two acyl groups are joined so as to form a heterocyclylic ring are most conveniently prepared by the reaction of a compound of the formula III wherein X is OH with a compound of the formula HNRARB wherein RA and RB from the heterocyclylic ring system in the presence of an azodicarboxylate compound of the formula VI 19 20 R O.CO N N CO.OR VI wherein R19 and R20 are independently C16 alkyl, aryl C16 alkyl or aryl and a compound of the formula VII EMI31.1 wherein k, 1 and m are independently zero or one, andR21, R22 and R23 are independently C16 alkyl, aryl C16 alkyl or aryl.The reaction is suitably performed in an inert organic solvent such as tetrahydrofuran and benzene, at a non extreme temperature such as 20 C to 1000C, usually at 500C to 500C and conveniently at ambient temperature. The foregoing reaction may also be used to prepare di acyl derivatives wherein the two acyl groups are not joined. If one or both of the two acyl groups are removable for example hydrogenolysable then a mono acyl derivative or primary amine NH2 may be formed. Compounds of the formula III wherein X is hydrogen may be prepared from the corresponding compounds wherein X is halo, for example iodo, by reduction.Mention may be made of tri n butyl tin hydride, Zinc in acetic acid, sodium borohydride and sodium cyanoborohydride. Compounds of the formula III wherein X is cyano may be prepared by the reaction of a compound of the formula III , wherein X is OH with hydrogen cyanide in the presence of a compound of the formula VI and a compound of the formula VII under similar reaction conditions to those described above. Compounds of the formula III wherein X is an activated aryl or heteroaryl group may be prepared by the reaction of a compound of the formula III wherein X is OH with an appropriate aromatic or heteroaromatic compound. By activated aryl or heteroaryl we mean a group derived from an aromatic or heteroaromatic compound that is sufficiently activated to undergo a priedel Crafts alkylation.Suitably such compounds include phenol, phenol substituted by one, two or three atoms or groups selected from hydroxy, halo, C 1 6 alkoxy, C 1 6 alkyl or C38 cycloalkyl furyl optionally substituted by C16 alkyl, thienyl optionally substituted by C16 alkyl, pyrrolyl optionally substituted by C16 alkyl, or any of the aforementioned ring systems fused to an optionally substituted benzene ring. A catalyst is employed which is one known to catalyst reactions known as FriedelCrafts reactions. Suitable catalysts include aluminium trichloride, zinc chloride, zinc bromide, antimony pentachloride, ferric chloride, stannic chloride, boron trifluoride etherate and chemical equivalents thereof. Of these boron trifluoride etherate is preferred.The reaction is generally performed in the presence of an inert organic solvent, preferably a non polar solvent such as a halogenated hydrocarbon for example chloroform, carbon tetrachloride or dichloromethane.Suitably the reaction is performed at a depressed or moderate temperature, i.e. between 500C and 700C, preferably between OOC and 300C. Preferably the reaction is performed under an inert atmosphere. Compounds of the formula III wherein X is the residue of a carbon nucleophile may be prepared from compounds of the formula III wherein X is a displaceable group by reaction with a carbon nucleophile.The displaceable group may be halo such as chloro, bromo or iodo or aryl or C 1 6 alkyl sulphonyloxy for example p toluenesulphonyloxy or methanesulphonyloxy. Reaction is suitably performed in an aprotic organic solvent at a depressed or ambient temperature for example 70 C to 250C, preferably at 200C to OOC. Suitable solvents include tetrahydrofuran, dimethylformamide or dimethylsulphoxide. The carbon nucleophile may be a compoundR H in which case a base is present, or the carbon nucleophile may be presented as a salt. The cation in such a salt is suitably a metal ion or an ammonium ion, for example sodium, potassium, thallium or a tetra C 1 6 alkyl ammonium cation. Thallium salts are particularly preferred. Suitable carboxyl blocking derivatives for the group CO2Ra in formulae V include salt, ester and anhydride derivatives of the carboxylic acid. The derivative is one which may readily be cleaved at a later stage of the reaction. Suitable ester forming carboxyl blocking groups are those which may be removed under conventional con ditions, and include those of sub formulae a f as hereinbefore defined. Such groups for Ra include benzyl, p methoxybenzyl, 2,4,6 trimethylbenzy1, 3,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxybenzyl, benzoylmethyl, p nitrobenzyl, 4 pyridyl methyl, 2,2,2 trichloroethyl, 2,2,2 tribromoethyl, acetonyl, 2 methylallyl, t butyl, t amyl, diphenylmethyl, triphenylmethyl, methyl, ethyl, allyl, adamantyl, o nitrobenzyl, 2 benzyloxyphenyl, tetrahydrofur 2 yl, tetrahydropyran 2 yl, methoxymethyl, a silyl, stannyl or phosphorus containing group, or an in vivo hydrolysable ester. Suitable salts include both pharmaceutically acceptable and non pharmaceutically acceptable salts, for example inorganic salts such as metal salts silver and mercuric , or alkali metal salts sodium and lithium and tertiary amine salts. The carboxyl group may be regenerated from any of the above esters by usual methods appropriate to the particular Ra group, for example, acid and base catalysed hydrolysis, or by enzymically catalysed hydrolysis, photolysis or by hydrogenation. The hydrolysis must of course be carried out under conditions to which the groups on the rest of the molecule are stable. The present invention further provides a process for the preparation of a compound of the formula V which process comprises the rearrangement of a compound of the formula VIII EMI35.1 or a precursor thereof, wherein Ra and Y are as defined in relation to formula V Preferably Ra is an esterifying group. Preferably in the compounds of the formula VIII Y is an oxygen atom. It should be realised that the compounds of the formula VIII may be presented in either of the two epimeric forms at the ring carbon atom adjacent to the vinyl group, or may be presented as a mixture of epimeric forms. The compounds of the formula VDt are novel and as such form part of this invention. The compounds of the formula VIII are not normally isolated but are formed and reacted in situ. The rearrangement is generally carried out by heating a solution of the compound of the formula VIII in an inert high boiling solvent to a moderately high temperature, for example generally higher than about 700C but less than that temperature at which any significant thermal decomposition occurs. Suitably the temperature is between 700C and 1500C, more suitably 900C 1300C and preferably at about 11ooh. Convenient solvents for this process include aromatic hydrocarbons such as benzene and mono, di or tri C1 4 alkyl benzenes, for example toluene, xylene and cumene. Toluene is a particularly suitable solvent as it has a boiling point of about 11000 and the reaction may be conveniently carried out in this solvent under reflux. As has been mentioned the compounds of the formula VIII are normally prepared and isolated in situ, and it is not absolutely necessary for the rearrangement of formula VIII to formula V that high temperatures be used. However it is more convenient to do so as the formation of the compounds of the formula VIII is conducted at high temperatures. The time for which the reaction is allowed to proceed depends on the particular starting material selected, but a suitable time period may be readily determined by monitoring the progress of the reaction by, for example, high pressure liquid chromatography or thin layer chromatography on silica using for example ethyl acetate cyclohexane as a developing solvent. The compounds of the formula VIII may be prepared by the elimination of the elements of H Q from a compound of the formula IX EMI37.1 wherein Y and Ra are as hereinbefore defined and Q is a group that will undergo the ss el imination. For example Q may be a sulphoxide S O R or a selenoxide Se O R or a xanthate OC S SR. The elimination is generally carried out at an elevated temperature such as between 700C and 1500C, preferably at about 1100C, in an aromatic hydrocarbon. Suitable values for Q include OC S SPh, Se O Ph and S O Ph and variants thereof wherein the phenyl ring is inertly substituted.Favourably Q is Se O Ph or Se O CH3. The compounds of the formula IX may be converted in one pot to the compound of the formula V without isolation of the compound of the formula VIII . The compounds of the formula IX may be prepared by replacement of halo, for example bromo, by the group Q in the compounds of the formula X EMI38.1 wherein Ra and Y are as hereinbefore defined and U is a displaceable group, for example tosylate, mesylate or halo such as bromo or chloro. For example Q is Se O Ph and substituted variants thereof may be prepared by the oxidation of the corresponding selenide Se Ph, etc, with an oxidising agent such as sodium metaperiodate, potassium permanganate or m chloroperbenzoic acid. The selenide may be prepared by the reaction of a compound of the formula X with an appropriate selenol in the. presence of base., or selenide anion. Compounds wherein Q is S O Ph and substituted variants thereof may be prepared analogously. Compounds of the formula X may be prepared by the reaction of a compound of the formula XI EMI39.1 wherein Ra is as hereinbefore defined, R25 is a hydrogen atom or a hydrocarbon group of 1 to 20 carbon atoms and R and R are independently C1 6 alkyl groups with a compound of the formula XII U CH2 CH2 YH XII wherein U is halo, such as bromo or chloro, and Y is oxygen or sulphur. The reaction may conveniently be performed in a polar non nucleophilic solvent such as dimethylformamide at a temperature of ambient to 60 C at a reduced pressure. Compounds of the formula XI may be prepared by the reaction of a compound of the formula XIII EMI39.2 with an appropriate orthoester of the formula XIV EMI39.3 wherein R25, R26 and R27 are as hereinbefore defined, and OR28 is a leaving group, such as a C 1 6 alkoxy group for example methoxy. It is believed that this reaction is an equilibrium reaction and therefore it is preferred thatR280 be chosen such that R28OH is removed or consumed during the reaction, such removal for example could be conveniently performed by evaporation, or under reduced pressure, if R28OH is volatile. The compounds of the formula X may also be prepared by the reaction of a compound of the formula XV EMI40.1 wherein Ra is a carboxy blocking group and R is an inert moiety such as alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl,aryl, alkoxy, aryloxy, aralkoxy, aralkyl with a compound of the formula XII . Preferably this reaction is performed at ambient or an elevated temperature between 200C and 800C, such as 500C, in an inert organic solvent, for example dimethylformamide. The compounds of the formula XV are described in European Patent Application Publication Number 0002320. The present invention also provides a process for the preparation of a compound of the formula III and salts and esters thereof which process comprises the reduction of a compound of the formula XVI EMI41.1 wherein Ra is a hydrogen atom or carboxy blocking group, y2 is oxygen or sulphur, and R30 is an esterifying group and thereafter if necessary i converting a compound of the formula III wherein X is hydroxy to a compound of the formula III wherein X is not hydroxy, ii removing any carboxy blocking group Ra iii converting the product into a salt or ester. Compounds of the formula XVI may be converted to compounds of the formula III wherein X is hydroxy by reduction in conventional manner. A suitable method of reduction utilises a complex hydride such as a borohydride, optionally sulphurated, for example lithium borohydride, sodium borohydride, potassium borohydride, sodium cyanoborohydride, or di isobutyl aluminium hydride. Such reaction may be performed in an inert organic solvent such as a hydrocarbon, a chlorinated hydrocarbon or an ether, for example toluene, cyclohexane, diethyl ether, heptane, hexane, dichloromethane or tetrahydrofuran.The reduction may be performed at any non extreme temperature for example 30 C to 60 C, more suitably OOC to 300C and most conveniently at ambient. temperature.Preferably Ra is hydrogen in the above reaction. Suitably R30 is a substituted or unsubstituted hydrocarbon radical of 1 to 20 carbon atoms. More suitably R30 is C110 alkyl, C2 10 alkenyl, 2 10 alkynyl, aryl C1 6 alkyl, aryl C26 alkenyl, heteroaryl C1 6 alkyl, C3 8 cycloalkyl, aryl, heteroaryl, C3 8 cycloalkyl C1 67 alkyl, heterocyclyl or heterocyclyl C1 6 alkyl, any of such groups being optionally substituted. Preferably R30 is methyl, ethyl or benzyl. 2 Suitably Y is oxygen. The compounds of the formula XVI are novel and are of use as chemical intermediates. Furthermore they are of use as antibacterial agents, in their own right, or as lactamase inhibitors. In addition 30 the compounds of the formula XVI wherein R is replaced by a pharmaceutically acceptable salt forming cation such as sodium or potassium, are active and useful antibacterial agents. The present invention also provides a process for the preparation of a compoundtiof the formula XVI EMI43.1 and salts and esters thereof wherein y2, Ra and R30 are as hereinbefore defined which process comprises the reduction of a compound of the formula XVII EMI43.2 wherein Ra is a hydrogen atom or carboxy blocking group, y2 and R30 are as hereibbefore defined, and thereafter if necessary i removing any carboxy blocking group Ra ii converting the product into a salt or ester. Preferably Yê is an oxygen atom. Suitably the reduction is performed using a tin hydride reducing agent such as a triaryl tin hydride, di alkyl tin hydride or trialkyl tin hydride. Suitable aryl groups include phenyl and optionally substituted phenyl. Suitable alkyl groups include C16 alkyl groups and especially n butyl. Preferred reducing agents are triphenyl tin hydride and tri n butyl tin hydride. This reaction may be carried out in the presence of a radical initiator, such as di t butyl peroxide and azobisisobutyronitrile. The reaction is generally operated in an inert solvent, such as benzene, toltene, and saturated hydrocarbons. Halogenated hydrocarbon solvents and ethers are not so suitable. Once initiated the reaction is fairly facile, however, the reaction mixture normally requires heating to about 80 C before much reaction occurs. At lower temperatures the reaction may be initiated byusing a radical initiator, or photochemically. The compounds of the formula XVII may be prepared by the reaction of either a compound of the formula XVIII or XIX EMI45.1 wherein Ra is as hereinbefore defined and B is a leaving group, with a compound of the formula XX EMI45.2 in the presence of a base. Suitably the base is inorganic and capable of forming the carbanion of the compound of the formula XX , for example a suitable base is sodium hydride. Suitably B is a svrbOxylate OCOQ moiety whereinQ is an organic group. More suitably Q is C1 6 alkyl, benzyl or dichloromethyl.. The compounds of the formulae XVIII and XIX may be prepared by the methods described in BritishPatent Specification Numbers 1529434, 1534508 and 1570495. Example I. Benzyl 9 0 dimethoxymethyl clavulanateEMI47.1 Benzyl clavulanate 2.89g 10 mmole was dissolved in trimethylorthoformate 15ml and warmed to 35 C wihle being placed under vacuum 14 mm Hg . After 4 hours the reaction mixture was evaporated to an oil which was chromatographed on silica gel toluene etbyl acetate4 1 as eluent to give the title ester in 90 yield, 3.27g.I.R. film 1800, 1749 and 1693 cm l N.M.R. CDC13 3.01 1H, d, J 17Hz, 6 CH , 3.32 6H, s, OCH3 x 2 , 3.52 1H, dd, J 17 and 3 Hz, 6 CH , 4.17 2H, d, J 8Hz, 9 CH2 , 4.88 1H, m, 8 CH , 5.08 2H, m, 3 CH and MeO 2CH , 5.2 2H, s,CH2Ph , 5.7 1H, d, J 3Hz, 5 CH and 7.39 5H, s, aromatics . Example 2 Benzyl 2 2 bromoethoxy 2 vinyl clavam 3 carboxylateEMI48.1 A freshly prepared sample of Benzyl 9 0 dimethoxymethyl clavulanate formed from 1.4g of Benzylolavulanate was, without purification, dissolved in dry dimethylformamide 5ml and 2 bromoethanol 3.633g, 29mmol was then added. The reaction vessel was placed under vacuum 14 m.m.Hg and warmed to 40 C.After a reaction time of 2.5 hours the mixture was diluted with ethylacetate and washed with brine. The inorganic layer was dried MgSO4 and evaporated prior to silica gel chromatography Toluene Ethyl acetate 10 1 as eluent to leave the bromide as a crystaline solid from diethylether or ethanol in 26 yield, 0.498E, and Benzyl clavulanate was recovered in 20 yield 0.28g.I.R. XBr 1780 and 1751 cm .N.M.R. CDC13 , 3.07 1H, dd, J 16 and 1.5Hz, 63 CH , 3.36 3H, m, 6 CH and OCH2CH2Br , 3.74 2H, m, OCH2CH2Br , 4.75 1H, s, 3 CH , 5.04 2H, s, CH2Ph , 5.22 1H, q, J 10 and 4 Hz, CH CH2 , 5.64 3H, m, 5 GR and C CE2 and 7.32 5H, s, aromatics . Example 2ABenzyl 2 2 bromoethoxy 2 vinyl clavam 3 carboxylate improved method Benzyl clavulanate 30 g, 0.104 mol was dissolved in triethyl orthoformate 50 ml containing a trace of p toluenesulphonic acid. The reaction was placed under vaccum 14 mm Hg and occasionally warmed to 300C. The reaction time was variable circa 6 hr. but when t.l.c.indicated the consumption of starting material the reaction was evaporated. The residual oil was taken up into 2 bromoethanol 25 ml and placed under vacuum 10 mm Hg . After 6 10 hr. the reaction mixture was diluted with diethyl ether and washed with a saturated sodium hydrogen carbonate solution 5x . The ether layer was dried MgS04 and filtered through Celite before evaporation. The residue was chromatographed on silica gel toluene ethylacetate, 7 1 as eluent affording the title product as a crystalline solid from ethanol, 11.5 g 28 yield . Example 3Benzyl 2 2 chloroethoxy 2 vinyl clavam 3 carboxylateEMI50.1 A solution of benzyl 9 N trichloroaceryl carbamoylclavulanate 17.68g, 37mmol in dry dimethylformamide 5ml and 2 chloroethanol 20ml, 149mmol was heated to 55 C for 6 hours.At the end of this time the reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with brine 3x , saturated sodium hydrogen carbonate solution and water 3x . The organic phase was dried MgSO4 and evaporated to an oil which was chromatographed upon silica gel toluene ethyl acetate 8 1 as eluent to afford the title ester as a crystalline solid, 2.138g 16.4 yield .I.R. Nujol 1786 and 1755 cmN.M.R. CDCl3 2.90 3.88 6H, m, 6 CH2 and OCH2CH2Cl.4.77 1H, s, 3 CH , 5.05 2H, s, CH2Ph , 5.23 1H, q, J 9 and 4Hz,CH CH2 , 5.5 5.8 3H, m, 5 CH CH2 , 7.35 5H, s, aromatics . Example 4Benzyl 2 2 bromoethoxy 2 vinyl clavam 3 carboxylateEMI51.1 Benzyl 9 N trichloroacetyl carbamoylclavulanate formed from Benzylclavulanate 11.53g 39.9mmol and trichloroacetyl isocyanate 5.68ml 47.88mmol in dichloromethane loomi , was concentrated and subsequently dissolved in dry dimethylformamide lOml . 2 Bromoethanol 8.6ml, 119.7mmol was added to the solution and the reaction was heated to 50 C. After a reaction time of 6 8 hours the mixture was diluted with ethylaceta te and washed with brine and saturated sodiumhydrogen carbonate solution.The organic phase was dried MgSO4 and evaporated to an oil from which the title ester could be crystalized from ethanol or isolated by silica gel chromatography Toluene ethylacetate, 9 1 as eluent , 4.38g 28 8 yield. Example SBenzyl 2 2 benzeneselenoethoxy 2 vinyl clavam 3 carboxylateEMI52.1 Benzyl 2 2 bromoethoxy 2 vinyl clamvam 3 carboxylate 3.77g, 9.5 mmol was dissolved in dimethylformamide 15 ml and cooled to 0 C. Benzeneselenol 1.2 ml, 11.36 mmol was added and subsequently triethylamine 1.46 ml, 10.49 mmol in dimethylformamide 2ml was added dropwise over 5 minutes. After 1 hour the reaction was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with brine and dilute hydrochloric acid.The organic layer was dried MgSO4 and evaporated prior to silica gel chromatography Toluene Ethyl acetate 7 1 as eluent to give the title ester in 80.1 yield, 3.5826g.I.R. film 1800 and 1750 cmN.M.R. CDCl3 , 3.01 4H, m, 6 CH2 and OCH2CH2Se , 3.64 2H, m,OCH2CH2Se , 4.7 1H, s, 3 CH , 5.04 2H, s, CH2Ph . 5.22 1H, q, J 9 and 4 Hz, CROR2 , 5.58 3H, m, 5 CH and C CR2 , and 7.32 10H, m, aromatics . Example Sa Benzyl 2 2 benzeneselenoethoxy 2 vinyl clavam 3 carboxylateEMI53.1 Benzyl 2 2 bromoethoxy 2 vinyl clavam 3 carboxylate 0.396g, 1 mmol was dissolved in dry dimethylformamide, placed under a stream of nitrogen, and cooled to 20 C. Over the next 5 minutes a dry dimethylformamide solution of diphenyldiselenide 0.172g, 0.55 mmol and sodium borohydride 0.0416g, 1.1 eol was added dropwise. Cooling was halted when this addition was oomplete and the reaction vessel was allowed to warm to ambient temperature. After 15 minutes at this temperature the reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with brine 2x , dilute hydrochloric acid and saturated sodium hydrogen carbonate solution. The organic phase was separated and dried MgSO4 prior to evaporation and fractionation upon silica gel toluene ethyl acetate as eluent, 7 1 . The title ester was thus obtained in 7 yield 0.33g . Example 6Benzyl 2 2 benzeneselnoethoxy 2 vinyl clavam 3 carboxylate.EMI54.1 Benzyl 2 2 chloroethoxy 2 vinyl clavam 3 carboxylate 4.28144g 12.2 mmol in dry toluene 25ml was treated with benzeneselenol 1.54ml, 14.64 mmol . Then triethylamine 1.785 ml, 12.81 mol was added dropwise. After 6 8 hours the reaction was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with brine 3x and saturated sodium hydrogen carbonate solution. The organic layer was separated and dried Nu504 prior to silica gel chromatography toluene ethyl acetate, 12 1 as eluent . The title ester was obtained in 88 yield as a colourless syrup. Example 7 Benzyl 2 2 benzeneseleninylethoxy 2 vinyl clavam 3 carboxylateEMI55.1 Benzyl 2 2 benzeneselenoethoxy 2 vinyl clavam 3 carboxylate 3.0446g, 6.45 mmol was dissolved in acetone 20ml . To this solution was added finely ground sodiumperiodate as a suspension in water 5ml . After 15 minutes the reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with brine 2x and saturated sodium hydrogen carbonate solution. The organic layer was dried MgSO4 and evaporated to a foam, 95 yield 2.99g.I.R. film 1799 and 1748 cm 1, N.M.R. CDCl3 3.2 4H, m, 6 CH2 and OCH2CH2Se , 3.76 2H, m,OCH2CH2Se , 4.61 and 4.67 each, 1H, s, 3 CH , 5.05 2H, s, CH2Ph , 5.22 1H, m, CH CH2 , 5.56 3H, m, 5 CH and C CH2 and 7.47 10H, m, aromatics . Example 7ABenzyl 2 2 benzeneseleninylethoxy 2 vinyl clavam 3carboxylate Benzyl 2 2 benzeneselenoethoxy 2 vinyl clavam 3 carboxylate 10 g, 21.2 mmol in acetone 100ml , at C, was treated with sodium periodate 10 g, 46.7 mmol in water 25 ml . When t.l.c. indicated that the starting material had been consumed circa 30 min the reaction mixture was filtered and concentrated to half volume, diluted with ethylacetate and washed with sodium hydrogen carbonate solution 3x and brine 2x . The organic layer was dried MgS04 and evaporated to an oil which was crystalised from toluene, 9.9i g 96 yield . Example 8 Benzyl 2 4 oxobutylidene clavam 3 carboxylateEMI57.1 Benzyl 2 2 benzeneseleninyletboxy 2vinyl clavam 3 carboxylate 2.99g, 6.13 mmol was dissolved in dry toluene 50 ml and heated to reflux. Twenty minutes after the start of reflux the reaction was cooled and evaporated. The oily residue was chromatographed on silica gel Toluene Ethyl acetate 9 1 as eluent to afford the title ester in 60 yield, 1.93g.I.R. film 1800, 1748, 1728 and 1698 cm 1.N.M.R. CDCl3 , 2.33 4H, m, CH2CH2 , 2.94 and 2.98 each 1H, d, J 16Hz, 6 CH , 3.41 and 3.45 each 1H, dd, J 16 and 2Hz, 6 CH , 4.54 and 4.94 each 1H, m, 8 CH , 4.99 and 5.23 each 1H, m, 3 CR , 5.15 2H, s, CR2Ph , 5.63 1H, m, 5 CH , 7.32 5H, s, aromatics , 9.5 and 9.66 each 1H, s, aldehyde . Example 9Benzyl 2 4 hydroxybutylidene clavam 3 carboxylateEMI58.1 Benzyl 2 4 oxobutylidene clavam 3 carboxylate 0.5 g, 1.587 mmol was dissolved in dry toluene 10 ml and cooled to 20 C while under dried nitrogen gas. Di isobutylaluminiumhydride 2.104 ml of a 25 solution in toluene was added dropwise. After 2 hours the viscous reaction mixture was emptied into ethyl acetate which was washed with dilute hydrochloric acid. The emulsion thus formed was filtered through celite before the separation of the organic phase which was dried Mg50 and evaporated. The residue was chromatographed on silica gel toluene ethyl acetate 2 1 as eluent affording the Z and E isomers of the title ester in 13.5 and 12 yield respectively 0.034 g and 0.030g . l isomer, I.R. film 3,430, 1800, 1747 and 1697 cm N.M.R. CDCl3 1.53 2H, m, CH2CH2CH2 , 1.74 1H, br s, OH , 2.01 2H, m, C CHCH2 , 3.99 1H, d, J 17Hz, 6 CH , 3.49 3H, m, 6 CH and CH2OH , 5.02 1H, dt, J 8 and 1Hz, 8 CH , 5.2 2H, s, CH2Ph , 5.26 1H, br s, 3 CH , 5.66 1H, d, J 3Hz, 5 CH , 7.39 5H, s, aromatics . Addition of D20 caused the br s at 6 1.74 to disappear .Z isomer, I.R. film 3420, 1801, 1745 and 1700 cmN.M.R. CDCl3 , 1.65 2H, m, CH2CH2CH2 , 1.78 1H, br s, OH , 2.2 2H, m, C CHCH2 , 3.05 1H, d, J 18Hz, 6 CH , 3.54 3H, m, 6 CH and CH2OH , 4.61 1H, dt, J 8 and 1Hz, 8 CH , 5.07 1H, br s, 3 CH , 5.23 2H, s, CH2Ph , 5.69 1H, d, J 2H3,5 CH and 7.41 5H, s, aromatics . Addition of D2O caused the br s at 6 1.78 to disappear . Example 10Benzyl E 2 4 oxobutylidene clavam 3 carboxylateEMI60.1 Benzyl 2 4 oxobutylidene clavam 3 carboxylate 2 g, 6.35 mmol as a 50 50 mixture of X and E isomers was cooled to 20 C and diethylether, previously cooled to 20 C, was added. The mixture was scratched as a solution was formed. The E isomer crystallizes out as a white solid. The solution was kept at 20 C for 4 hours at which time it was filtered and the white solid washed with cold diethylether. The crystalline E isomer was obtained in 75 yield 0.75g and the residual oil remains as a mixture of Z amd E isomers 8 2 . This process may be repeated to obtain the E isomer in 90 yield 0.9g leaving the residual oil as a 9 1 mixture of Z to E isomers.E isomer I.R. Nujol 1789, 1743, 1715 and 1694 cm 1 N.M.R. CDCl3 2.27 4H, m, CH2CH2 , 2.94 1H, d, J 17Hz, 6 CH , 3.45 1H, dd, J 17 and 3Hz, 6 CH , 5.02 4H, m, 3CH, 8CH andCH2PH , 5.61 1H, d, J2Hz, 5CH , 7.33 5H, s, aromatics and 9.57 1H, s, CO.H . Example 11 Benzyl 2 4 hydroxybutylidene clavam 3 carboxylateEMI61.1 Benzyl 2 4 oxobutylidene clavam 3 carboxylate 0.5 g, 1.587 mmol was dissolved in dry toluene 20 ml . To this solution was added aluminium tri i so propoxide 0.324g, 1.587 mmol portionwise. The homogeneous solution was heated to 60 C to distil off acetone and after 20 minutes the reaction mixture was cooled and diluted with ethyl acetate, which was washed with dilute hydrochloric acid and saturated sodium hydrogen carbonate solution. The organic phase was dried MgSO4 and evaporated prior to silica gel chromatography toluene ethyl acetate 2 1 as eluent to afford the s and E isomers of the title ester in 12 and 11 yield respectively 0.03g and 0.0275g . Example 12 Benzyl 2 4 hydroxybutylidene clavam 3 carboxylateEMI62.1 Benzyl 2 4 oxobutylidene clavam 3 carboxylate 0.8583 g, 2.725 mmol as an 8 2 mixture of s to E isomers was dissolved in dry dimethoxyethane lomI and cooled to 20O. Sodium borohydride 0.124g, 3.278 mmol was added portion wise over 5 minutes and the reaction was kept at 204C for a further 15 minutes, by this time the starting material had been consumed as was judged from monitoring by t.l.c. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with brine 2x , dilute hydrochloric acid and finally sodium hydrogen carbonate solution before drying MgSO4 the organic layer.Evaporation of this layer and silica gel fractionation of the residue toluene ethyl acetate 2 1 as eluent afforded both the E isomer 0.1123 g, 65 yield and the Z isomer 0.5372g, 78 yield of the title ester. Example 13 Benzyl E 2 4 hydroxybutylidene clavam 3 carboxylateEMI63.1 Sodium borohydride 0.062g, l.6pmiol was added portion wise to a solution of benzyl E 2 4 oxobutylidene clavam 3 carboxylate 0.43 g, 1.365 mmol in dry dimethoxyethane cooled to 20 C. After 20 minutes the reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with brine 2s , dilute hydrochloric acid and saturated sodium hydrogen carbonate solution. The organic phase was dried MgSO4 and evaporated to an oil which was chromatographed on silica gel toluene ethyl acetate, 2 1 as eluent to afford the title ester, 0.2814 g 65 yield . Example 14 Lithium 2 4 hydroxybutylidene clavam 3 carboxylateEMI64.1 Benzyl 2 Z 4 hydroxybutylidene clavam 3carboxylate 0.028g, 0.0883 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 2ml was added to prehydrogenated palladium on carbon 10 , 12 mg in aqueous 1 ml tetrahydrofuran 3 ml containing lithium carbonate 0.00327g, 0.0442mmol . The reaction was hydrogenated for 20 minutes by which time the reaction was complete as judged by T.L.C. The catalyst was filtered off and washed with water the filtrate and washings were combined and evaporated to leave the product as a solid 9 my, 43.7 yield. I.R. Nujol 3,400, 1770, 1700 and 1623 cm 1. N.M.R. D2O 1.62 2H, quintet, J7 and 8Hz, OCH2CH2 , 2.14 2H, ddt, J8Hz, 8Hz and 0.7Hz, C CHCH2 , 3.075 1H, d, J18Hz, 6 CH , 3.535 1H, dd, J2 and 18Hz, 6 CH , 3.585 2H, t, 7Hz, CH2OH , 4.71 1H, dt, J8 and 1Hz, C CH , 4.875 1H, br. s, 3 CH , 5.665 1H, d, J2Hz, 5 CH. Example t5 Lithium Z 2 4 hydroxybutylidene clavam 3 carboxylateEMI65.1 Benzyl Z 2 4 hydroxybutylidene clavam 3 carboxylate 0.5372g, 1.695 mmol in ethanol 10ml was added to palladium on carbon 0.2g 10 and lithium carbonate 0.0626g, 0.847 mmol in water 5 ml . The reaction mixture was hydrogenated for 15 20 mins.by which time the starting material had been consumed. The catalyst was filtered off and washed with ethanol which was combined with the filtrate and concentrated under vacuum.Addition of acetone to the concentrated aqueous solution caused the title salt to crystallize. Filtration and drying of the solid afforded pure lithium 8 2 4 hydmxybutylidene clavan 3 carboxylate 0.2675g, 67.7 yield .I.r. Nujol 3570, 3320, 1784, 1700 and 1623 cm 1. Example 16Lithium E 2 4 hydroxybutylidene clavam 3 carboxylateEMI66.1 Benzyl E 2 4 hydroxybutylidene clavam 3 carboxylate 0.2814,g, 0.888mmol in ethanol 8 ml was added to palladium on bariumsulphate 0.15 g, 5 and lithium carbonate 0.0328 g, 0.444 mmol in water 3ml . The reaction mixture was hydrogenated for 20 minutes by which time the starting material had been consumed. The catalyst was filtered off and washed with ethanol which was combined with the filtrate and concentrated under vacuum. Acetone was added to the concentrated aqueous solution causing the title salt to crystallize out. Filtration and drying of the solid afforded pure lithium E 2 4 hydroxy butylidene clavam 3 carboxylate 0.1012 g, 49 yield .I.R. Nujol 3490, 1759, 1690 and 1620 cm 1.N.M.R. D2O 1.55 2H, m, CH2CH2CH2 , 2.01 2H, m, C CHCH2 , 2.96 1H, d, J17Hz, 6 ssCH , 3.49 3H, m, 6 alpha CH and 2H, m, 3CH and 8CH , 5.57 1H, d, J2Hz, 5CH . Example 17Benzyl 2 3 ethoxycarbonyl 3 nitromethyl propylidene clavam 3 carboxylateEMI67.1 Sodium hydride in oil 480 mg, 50 dispersion in oil 10 mmol was added portionwise to a solution of methyl nitroacetate 2.0g 15 mmol in dry redistilled dimethylformamide and the resulting suspension stirred for 20 minutes. A solution of the benzyl dichloroacetate 4g 10 mmol in dry dimethylformamide was added and the reaction mixture was stirred for 30 minutes at 0 and for 4 hours at room temperature. A red solution resulted tJlis was poured into ethyl acetate 300ml , washed with water 2 x 100 ml , saturated brine 1 x 100 ml and dried anhydrous MgSO4 . The solvent was evaporated to give an oil which was chromatographed on silica gel eluting with cyclohexane methyl acetate, 2 1.Fractions were collected containing the title epimeric compoundRf SiO2 cyclohexane methylacetate, 2 1 0.37, detection by aqueous potassium permanganate . Yield 40 .max. film 1795, 1740,1695 cm. CDCl3 1.29 3H, t, J7Hz,CH2CH3 , 2.97 2H, m, 9CH2 , 3.09 1H, bd, J17Hz, 6 CH , 3.5 1H, dd, J17 and 3Hz, 6 CH , 4.27 2H, two pairs of overlapping quartets, J7Hz, CH2CH3 , 4.6 1H, bd, J7Hz, 8 CH , 5.04 1H, bs, 3 CH , 5.09, 5.13 1H, 2 x dd, J6 and 3Hz, CH NO2 . CO2CH2CH3 5.15, 5.21 2H, ABq, J12Hz, CH2Ar , 5.69, 5.72 1H, 2 x d, J3Hz, 5 CH 7.38 5H, m, Ar H . Example 18Benzyl 2 3 benzyloxycarbonyl 3 nitromethyl propylidene clavam 3 carboxylateEMI68.1 Benzyl nitroacetate 5.85 g 30 mmol in dry redistilled dimethylformamide 35ml was treated with sodium hydride 960 mg, 50 dispersion in oil 20mmol at 0 the suspension was stirred for 10 minutes. A solution of benzyl dichloroacetylclavulanate 8g 20mmol in dry redistilled dimethylformamide 15 ml was added and the mixture was stirred for 30 minutes at 0 and for four hours at room temperature.The reaction mixture was poured into ethylacetate 300 ml and washed with water 2 x 100 ml arid saturated brine 2 x 100 ml dried anhydrous MgSO4 and evaporated to an oil. Fractionation on silica gel, eluting with cyclohexane ethylacetate, 3 1, gave the product as a colourless oil 3.3g 35 yield Rf Si02 cyclohexane ethylacetate, 2 1 0.26 detection by aqueous potassium permanganate . CHCl3 1803, 1752, 1698 cm 1, CDCl3 2.99 2H, m, 9 CH2 3.05 1H, d, J 17.5Hz, 6 CH , 3.46 1H, dd, J 17.5 and 3Hz, G C H 4.56, 4.58 1H, 2 x dt J 7 and 1.5Hz, 8 CH , 5.02, 5.04 1H, 2 x d , J 1.5Hz, 3 CH , 5.15 1H, m, CH NO2 CO2BZ, partly obscured by s at 5.15 , 5.15 2H, s, CH2Ar , 5.22. 5.24 2H, 2 x s, CH2Ar , 5.63, 5.66 1H, 2 x d, J 3Hz, 5 CH 7.35 10H, m, Ar H . Example 19Benzyl 2 3 ethoxycarbonyl propylidene clavam 3carboxylateEMI69.1 The product of Example 17 480 mg 1.2mmol was treated under nitrogen with tributyltin hydride 379m1. 1.4mmol in refluxing toluene 50 ml in the presence of azabisisobutyronitrile 39mg 0.24rnmol the reaction was monitored by t.l.c. After 4 hours the solvent was evaporated in vacuo and the resultant oil chromatographed on silica gel with toluene ethylacetate, 7 1 as the eluent. The product was obtained as a colourless oil yield 42 . max. film 1795, 1740 b , 1695 cm 1. 6 CDCl3 max..25 3H, t, J7.OHz, CH2CH3 , 2.35 4H, m, CH2CH2 CO2CH2CH3 , 3.05 1H, dd, J17 and 1.5Hz, 6 CH , 3.47 1H, dd, J17 and 3Hz, 6a CH , 4.12 2H, q, J7.OHz, CH2CH3 4.62 1H, bt, 7Hz, 8 CH , 5.03 lH, bs, 3 CH , 5.15, 5.21 2H, ABq, J11.5IIz, CH2Ar 5.66 1H, d, J3Hz, 5 CH , 7.37 5H, m, Ar H . Example 20Lithium 2 3 ethoxycarbonyl propylidene clavam 3carboxyl ateEMI70.1 The product of Example 19 120mg 0.33mmol in dry redistilled tetrahydrofuran 25ml was hydrogenated over 10 Pd C 60mg for 40 minutes. The catalyst was filtered off and water 10ml was added to the filtrate which was titrated to pH 7.3 with 0.1M lithium hydroxide. The aqeuous solution was evaporated to dryness and the product crystallised from acetone. Yield 51 . max. KBr 1760 1790 b , 1720 b 1618 cm 1.6 D2O 1.22 3H, t, J7.5Hz, CH2CH3 , 2.42 4H, m, CH2CH2CO2CH2CH3 , 3.07 1H, d, J17Hz, 68 CH , 3.53 1H, dd, J17 and 3Hz, 6 alpha CH , 4.12 2H, q, J7.5Hz, CH2CH3 , 4.68 1H, bt, J7.5Hz, 8 CH , 4.86 1H, bs, 3 CH , 5.66 4H, d, J3Hz, 5 CH . Example 21Benzyl 2 14 methylsulphonyloxy butylidene clavam 3 carboxylate.EMI71.1 Benzyl 2 4 hydroxybutylidene calavam 3 carboxylate 408 mg 1.29 mmol in dry dichloromethane 6cm3 at 30 was treated with 1 equivalent of pyridine followed by 1 equivalent of methanesulphonylchloride, popwise. The temperature was allowed to rise to room temperature then a further 0.2 cm of pyridine and 0.1 cm 1 equivalent of methanesulphonyl chloride was added. The mixture was stirred for 79 hours when thin layer chromatography showed the absence of starting material. The reaction mixture was diluted with dichloromethane 50cm and washed with saturated brine, dried anbydrous magnesium sulphonate and evaporated to an oil. This oil was chromatographed on silica eluting with toluene ethylacetate 3 1, fractions were collected containing the required product, Rf Si02 toluene etbylacetate 3 1 0.5 detection by aqueous potassium permanganate spray . Combined fractions were evaporated to afford an oil, yield 0.47 g 92 .v 96 in CHCl3 1800, 1750, 1700, 1358, 1335, 1305, 1172, 1120, 1000, 970, 955, 932 cm 1 CDCl3 1.68 1.83 2H, m, CH2CH2CH2O , 2.20 2H, broad dt, J7 and 7Hz, 2CH2 , 2.98 3H, s, SCH3 , 3.07 1H, broad d, J 17 Hz, 6ssCH , 3.47 1H, dd. J 17 and 2.5 Hz, 6 alpha CH , 4.07 4.21 2H, m, CH2CH2CH2O , 4.53 1H, dt,J 7 and 1 Hz, 1CH , 5.04 1H, d, J 1Hz, 3CH3 , 5.16 and 5.25 2H,ABq, J 12 Hz, CO2CH2 , 5.66 1H, broad d, J 2.5Hz, 5 alpha CH , 7.317.43 5H, m, C6H5 . Example 22Benzyl 2 4 p toluenesulphonyloxy butylidene clavam 3carboxylate.EMI73.1 Benzyl 2 4 hydroxybutylidene clavam 3 carboxylate 0.81g 2. 56mmol in dry methylene dichloride 12cm3 at 30 C was treated with 1 equivalent of pyridine, followed by 1.1 equivalents of 2 toluene sulphonyl chloride in methylene dichioride 5cm3 . The mixture was stirred and the temperature allowed to rise to 20 C over i hour, when a further equivalent of pyridine was added. After 24 hours, 1 2 equivalent of p toluenesulphonyl chloride was added and a further equivalent of pyridine. Stirring was continued for a further 24 hours when thin layer chromatography t.l.c. still showed unreacted starting material present. A further 1 2 equivalent of tosyl chloride was added and the reaction mixture allowed to stand at 5 for a further 48 hours when t.l.c. showed the absence of starting material. The reaction mixture was diluted with methylene dichloride and washed with saturated brine 5 x 5cm3 , dried anhydrous magnesium sulphate and evaporated to an oil. This crude oil was chromatographed on silica eluting with toluene ethyl acetate 4 1 and fractions were collected containing the required product, Rf S 02 toluene ethyl acetate, 4 1 0.56 detection by aqueous potassium permangante spray . Combined fractions were evaporated to an oil, yield 0,90g 79 film 1805, 1752, 1700 cm 5 in CHC13 1800, 1750, 1700, 1360, 1307, 1175, 1000, 968, 935 cm 1. CDCl3 1.44 1.80 2H, m, CH2CH2OSO2 , 211 2H, dt, J 7 and 7Hz, CH2CH2CH2OSO2 , 2.41 3H, s,CH3 , 2.98 1H, d, J 16.5 Hz, 6ssCH , 3.41 1H, dd, J 16.5 and 2.5 Hz, 6 a CH , 3,92 2H, t, J 6Hz, CE20S02 , 4.43 1H, broad t, J 7Hz, 1 CH , 4.97 1H, broad s, 3CH , 5.15 2H, s, CO2CH2 . 5.60 1H, d,J 2.5 Hz, 5 alpha CH , 7.18 7.45 7H, m, C6H5 andEMI74.1 7.75 2H, dAB, J 8Hz,EMI74.2 Example 23Benzyl 2 4 azidobutylidene clavam 3 carboxylateEMI75.1 Benzyl 2 4 methylsulphonyloxy butylidene clavem 3 carboxylate 175 mg in dimethylformamide 4cm at 20 was treated with 2 equivalents of sodium azide and stirred for 6 hours. The mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate 100cm3 and washed with saturated brine 5 x 50cm3 , dried anhydrous magnesium sulphate and evaporated to an oil. The oil was chromatographed on silica eluting with ethyl acetatetoluene 1 6. Fractions were collected and fractions containing a material Rf 0.6 were combined and evaporated SiO2 ethyl acetatetoluene 1 6 to an oil, yield 30mg. film 2090, 1802, 1750, 1697, 740, 698 cm CDCl3 1.51 1.67 2H, m, CH2CH2CH2N3 , 2.16 2H, ddt, J 7,1 and 7Hz, CH2CH2CH2N3 , 3.05 1H, broad d, J 16Hz, 6ssOH , 3.18 2H, t, J 7Hz, CR2N3 , 3.47 1H, dd, J 16 and 2.5Hz, 6aCH , 4.53 1H, dt J 7 and lHzT 1CH , 5.04 1H, bd, J 1Hz, 3CR , 5.16 and 5.25 2H, ABq,J 12 Hz, CO2CH2 , 5.67 1H, broad d, J 2.5 Hz, 5 alpha CH , 7.30 7.45 5H, m, CH2C6H5 . Example 24Benzyl 2 4 azidobutylidene clavam 3 carboxylateEMI76.1 A solution of benzyl 2 4 p toluenesulphonyloxybutylidene clavam 3 carboxylate 0.7Sg 1.6 mmol in dimethylformamide 10 cm3 at room temperature was treated with two equivalents of sodium azide and stirred for 44 hours. The mixture was poured into ethyl acetate 150 cm3 and washed with saturated brine 5 x 50 cm3 , dried anhydrous magnesium sulphate and evaporated to an oil.This oil was chromatographed on silica eluting with toluene ethyl acetate 8 1 . Fractions were collected containing the title compound, Rf Si02 toluene ethyl acetate 6 1 0.6 and combined fractions were evaporated to afford 250 mg 45 of an oil film 2090, 1803, 1750, 1695, 740, 698,Czz I Example 25 2 4 Aminobutylidene clavem 3 carboxylateEMI77.1 Benzyl 2 4 azidobutylidene clavam 3 carboxylate 34.0 mg 0.1 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 3cm3 was hydrogenolysed at atmospheric pressure in the presence of 10 palladium on carbon 20mg for 25 hours.The catalyst was filtered off and washed with tetrahydrofuran 10cm , , then with water 20cm3 . The aqueous washings were collected separately and evaporated to afford a white crystalline solid from ethanol.Yield 10 mg, nujol 1797, 1690, 1638, 1585 cm 1 D2O HCD at 4.80 1.67 1.81 2H, m, CH2CH2CH2N , 2.12 2.28 2H, m, 2CH2 , 2.98 2H, t, J 7Hz, CH2NH3 , 3.07 1H, d, J 16 Hz, 6ssCH , 3.53 1H, dd, J 16 and 3 Hz, 6 alpha CH , 4.68 1H, broad t, J 7Hz, 1 CH , 4.89 1H, broad s, 3CR , 5.68 1H, d, J 3Hz, SC H . Example 26Benzyl 2 4methoxybutylidene clavam 3 carboxylate EMI78.1 To a solution of benzyl 2 4 hydroxybutylidene clavam 3carboxylate 0.525 g 1.7 mmol in dichloromethane 5 ml , at OOC, was added diazomethane in diethyl ether 70 ml approx. 0.4 m solution and a catalytic amount of borontrifluoride etherate. The reaction mixture was allowed to stand at COC for 8 hr. Nitrogen was bubbled through the solution until it was colourless and then ethylacetate 20 ml was added. The organic phase was washed with sodium bicarbonate solution 2 x 50 ml , brine 2 x 50 ml and finally dried over anhydrous magnesium sulphate.Removal of the solvent in vacuo gave a page yellow oil which was subjected to silica gel column chromatography eluting with ethyl acetate cyclohexane 2 3 to give the title compound 0.36 g 92 Rf 0.44 ethylacetate cyclohexane 2 3 and recovered starting alcohol 0.15 Rf 0.16 ethyl acetate cyclohexane, 2 3 both as colourless oils. max. CHCl3 1790, 1740 and 1690 cm . dH CDCl3 1.59 2H, m, CHCH2CH2CH2OCH3 , 2.12 and 2.16 2H, dt, 3 7 Hz, OHCH2CH2CH20CH3 , 3.02 1H, broad d, 3 16 Hz, 6a CH , 3.32 3H, s, OCH3 , 3.32 1H, t, 3 7 Hz, CHCH2CH2CH2OCH3 , 3.45 lH, dd, 3 16 and 2.5 Hz, 6a CH , 4.57 1H, dt, 3 7 and 1 Hz, CHCH2CH2CH20CH3 , 5.03 lH, d, 3 1 Hz, 3 CH , 5.24 and 5.16 2H,ABq, 3 12 Hz, CH2Ph , 5.65 lH, brad d, 3 2.5 Hz, 5 CH , 7.23 7.45 5H, m, ArH . Example 27Sodium 2 4 methoxybutylidene clavam 3 carboxylateEMI79.1 Benzyl 2 4 methoxybutylidene clavam 3 carboxylate 0.35 g 1.05 mmol in 5 aqueous tetrahydrofuran 15 ml was hydrogenated for 20 min. at room temperature over 10 palladium on carbon 0.12 g . Thin layer chromatography indicated that all of the starting material had been consumed. The reaction mixture was filtered and reduced to a small volume approx. 1 ml then partitioned between ethyl acetate 15 ml and water 15 ml .Adjustment of the pH to 7.2 with sodium hydroxide solution 1 M followed by separation and evaporation of the aqueous layer yielded the desired salt as a pale yellow gel which on addition of ether gave a solid 0.28 g 93 . v KBr 1785, 1695 and 1610 cm H D20 1.63 2H, H, CHCH2CH2CH20CH3 2.12 2H, m, CHCH2CH2CH20CH3 3.06 1H, d, 3 16 Hz, 6ss CH , 3.32 3H, S, OCH3 , 3.45 2H, t, 3 7 Hz, CHCH2CH2OCH3 , 3.52 lH, dd, 3 16 and 2.5 Hz, 6a CH , 4.69 lH, dt, 3 7 and 1 Hz, CHCH2CH2CH20CH3 , 4.86 lH, d, 3 1 Hz, 3 CH , 5.65 1H, d, 3 2.5 Hz, 5 CH . Example 28Benzyl 2 4 methoxybutylidene clavam 3 carboxylateEMI80.1 Benzyl 2 4 hydroxybutilidene clavam 3 carboxylate 0.317g linmol silver I oxide 0.23g calcium sulphate 0. 32g and methyl iodide 0.65 ml 0.1 mol were stirred together in dichloromethane 5ml in a stoppered flask in the dark for 48 hours. Thin layer chromatograph e analysis indicated that approximately 50 of the starting material had been consumed. The reaction mixture was filtered and a fresh quantity of the reagents methyl iodide 0.65ml, silver oxide 0.23g, calcium sulphate 0.32g added and the mixture was stirred for a further 15 hours, then filtered, and the solvent removed under reduced pressure to yield a yellow oil which was subjected to silica gel column chromatography eluting with ethyl acetate toluene 1 10 . The fractions containing component Rf 0.46 ethyl acetate toluene 1 7 were combined and evaporated in vacuo to give the desired ether 80mg 2 as a colourless oil. max 9 o CHCl3 1790, 1740, and 1690 cm 1 N.N.R. CHCl3 same as previous sample. Example 29aBenzyl 2 2 benzenethioethoxy 2 vinyl clavam 3 carboxylate.EMI81.1 Benzyl 2 2 chlorethoxy 2 vinyl clavam 3 carboxylate 1.2834 g, 3.02 mmol in dry dimethylformamide loll was treated sequentially with thiophenol 0.6ml and triethylamine 0.6ml .After 6 hours at room temperature the reaction was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with brine 3x , water 3x dilute hydrochloric acid 2r and finally saturated sodium hydrogen carbonate solution. After drying and evaporation the residue was columned upon silica gel toluene ethyl acetate, 9 1 as eluent affording the title ester in 76.6 yield 1.192g . max film 1800 and 1749 cm 1. CDCl3 2.70 3.80 6H, m, O CH2CH2 s and ss lactam CH2 , 4.67 lR, s, C3 H , 4.98 2H, s, CE2Ph , 5.13 lH, q, J 8 and 4Hz, C H CH2 , 5.41 5.70 3H, m, C5 H and CH CH2 , 6.96 7.40 10H, m, aromatics . Example 29bBenzyl 2 2 benzenesulfinylethoxy 2 vinyl clavam 3 carboxylateEMI82.1 Benzyl 2 2 bensenethioethoxy 2 vinyl clavam 3 carboxylate 0.8047g, 1.89 mmol in aqueous acetone 20ml acetone 5ml water was treated with finely ground sodium metaperiodate lg . The reaction was allowed to stir at ambient temperature for two days by which time the reaction was complete as judged froi thin layer chromatography. The reaction was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with brine 3x and saturated sodium hydrogen carbonate solution before evaporation and silica gel chromatography toluene ethyl acetate 2 1 as eluent to give the title ester in 73.3 yield 0.612g . gamma max nujol 1793, 1742 cm CDCl3 2.62 4.10 6H, m, O.CH2.CH2.S and ss lactam CH2 , 4.69 and 7.79 1H, each d, J 2Hz, C3 R for each S 0 O isomer , 5.04 2, s, CH2Ph , 5.13 5.43 1H, m, CH CH2 , 5.50 5.81 3H, m, CH CH2 and 05 H , 7.21 7.76 10H, m , aromatics . Example 29cBenzyl 2 4 oxobutylidene clavam 3 carboxylateEMI83.1 Benzyl 2 2 benzenesulfinylethoxy 2 vinyl clavam 3 carboxylate 0.432g, 0.979 mmol in dry xylene 20ml was refluxed for 36 hours. By this time all starting material had been consumed and the reaction mixture was evaporated and the residue subjected to silica gel chromatography toluene ethyl acetate 7 1 as eluent . The title ester was thus obtained in 5 yield 0.01S5g . Example 30Benzyl 2 4 5 ethoxycarbonyltetrazol 1 yl butylidene clavam3 carboxylate.EMI84.1 Benzxyl 2 4 azidobutylidene clavam 3 carboxylate 180mg 0.53mmol in neat ethylcyanoformate 2 cm3 was stirred at 85 for 21 hours when a further 1.5 cm ethylcyanoformate was added. The reaction was stirred for a further 23 hours at 80 and 65 hours at 70 . Thin layer chromatography showed starting material still present. A further 1 cm3 ethylcyanoformate was added and the reaction continued for 61 hours at 80 total 170 hours . The ethylcyanoformate was evaporated off under vacuum and the residue chromatographed on silica eluting with ethyl acetate toluene 1 6. Fractions were collected containing the title compound Rf SiO2 ethyl acetate toluene 1 6 0.30 detection by aqueous potassium permenganate spray .Combined fractions were evaporated to afford an oil, yield 117mg 50 film 1803, 1743, 1700 cm 1 250 MHz FT 1H n.m.r. CDCl3 1.49 3H, t, J 7Hz, CH2CH3 , 1.90 2.05 2H, m, CH2CH2CH2N , 2.14 2H, dt,J7 and 7Hz, CH2CH2CH2N . 3.07 1H, d, j 17Hz, 6ssCH , 3.47 1H, dd,J17 and 3Hz, 6 alpha OH , 4.53 2H, q, J7Hz, CH2CH3 , 4.55 1H, dt, J 1 and 7Hz, CH2H , 4.64 2H, t, J 7Hz, CH2CH2N . 5.04 1H, d, J1Hz, 3CH , .17 1H and 5.25 1H ABq, J12Hz, OCH2C6H5 , 5.65 1H, d, J3Hz, 5 alpha OH , 7.34 5H, s, CH2C6H5 . Example 31aBenzyl 4 tetrazol 1 ylbutylidene clavam 3 carboxylate and benzyl 4 tetrazol 2 ylbutylidene clavam 3carboxylate Benzyl 4 hydroxybutylidene clavam 3 carboxylate 0.5 g 1.58 mmol in dry tetrahydrofuran at 200C was treated with tetrazole 221 mg 3.16 mmol and triphenyl phosphine 497 mg 1.9 mmol and cooled to 00.Diethylazodicarboxylate 330 mg 1.9 mmol was added with stirring. After 20 mins. a further 0.2 equivalents of triphenylphosphine was added and 50 lil diethylazodicarboxylate. Stirring was continued for 0.75 hours allowing the temperature to rise to 50. The solvent was evaporated and the residue dissolved in ethylacetatecyclohexane 1.2 , the resulting crystals were filtered off and the filtrate chromatographed on silica eluting with ethylacetate cyclohexane 1 2 grading to 1 1.Fractions were collected containing material Rf SiO2 ethyl acetate cyclohexane 1 1 0.75 detection by aqueous potassium permanganate spray . Combined fractions were evaporated to afford a colourless oil, yield 275 mg 47 of the tetrazol 2 yl derivative.v film 1800, 1750, 1700, 1305, 1230, 1180, 1120, 1040, 1025, 1015, 1005, 895, 740, 700 cm . 5 in CHCl3 1800, 1750, 1700, 1307, 1220, 1180, 1118, 1040, 1015, 1000, 895 cm 1 CDC13 1.95 2.20 4H, m,EMI85.1 3.07 1H, d, J 16.5 Hz, 6ssCH , 3.47 1H, dd, J 16.5 Hz and 3 Hz, 6aCH , 4.45 4.65 3H, m,EMI85.2 5.02 1H, d, J 1 Hz, 3CH , 5.18 1H, dABq, J 11 Hz , 5.25 1H, dABq, J 11 Hz ,OCH2C6H5 , 5.65 1H, broad d, 5 alpha CH , 7.34 5H, broad s,CH2C6H5 , 8.49 1H, s,EMI85.3 Further fractions Rf SiO2 ethyl acetatecyclohexane 1 1 0.3 were combined and evaporated to an oil containing a crystalline solid.This mixture was rechromatographed on silica eluting with ethyl acetate and fractions collected Rf SiO2 ethyl acetate 0.8 detection by aqueous potassium permanganate spray . Combined fractions were evaporated to afford a colourless oil, 15 of the tetrazol 1 yl derivative. v film 1800, 1747, 1695, 1305, 1330, 1170, 1115, 1040, 1015, 1000, 960, 890, 742, 700 cm 1. v 5 in CHCl3 1800, 1745, 1695, 1305, 1220, 1165, 1115, 1040, 1010, 1000 cm . CDCl3 1.83 2.14 4H, broad m,EMI86.1 J 3.04 1H, broad d, J 17 Hz,6ssCH , 3,475 1H, dd, J 17 and 3 Hz, 6aCH , 4.10 4.32 2H, broad m,EMI86.2 4.48 1H, dt, J 7 and 1 Hz, 8CH 5.05 1H, d, J 1 Hz, 3CH , 5.17, 1H, dABq, J 11 Hz , 5.27 1H, dABq, J 11 Hz , OCH2C6H5 s5.67 1H, broad d, J3 Hz, SaCH , 7.35 5H, broad s, CH2C6H5 , 8.48 1H, s,EMI86.3 Example 31b 7Lithium 4 tetrazol l ylbutylidend,lavam 3 carboxylate Benzyl 4 tetrazol 1 ylbutylideneclavem 3carboxylate 225 mg 0.61 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 20 cm was hydrogenolysed at atmospheric pressure in the presence of 80 mg 10 Pd C for 70 minutes.The catalyst was filtered off and the filtrate was diluted with distilled water 20 cm . This solution was triturated to pH 7.2 using 0.2M lithium hydroxide solution. The solvents were evaporated to afford a cream coloured solid from acetone. Yield 120 mg 70 , Rf SiO2 ethyl acetate ethanol water 4 2 1 0.43 detection by aqueous potassium permanganate spray . Nujol 1785, 1685, 1610, 1302, 1170, 1110, 1040, 1015, 995, 895, 735 cm 1 KBr 1782, 1692, 1610, 1408, 1305, 1170, 1115, 1042, 1020, 998, 897, 737 cm 1. 6 D20 2.00 2.25 4H, m,EMI87.1 3.09 1H, d,J 17 Hz, 6RCH , 3.55 1H, dd, J 17 and 3 Hz, 6aCH , 4.54 2H, broad t, J 6 Hz,EMI87.2 4.66 1H, t, J 8 Hz,CHCH2CH2 , 4.86 1H, s, 3CH , 5.67 1H, d, J 3 Hz,SaCH , 9.18 1H, s,EMI87.3 Example 32Lithium 4 tetrazol 2 ylbutylidene clavam 3 carboxylate Benzyl 4 tetrazol 2 ylbutylidene clavam 3carboxylate 540 mg 1.4 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 20 cm was hydrogenolysed for 70 minutes in the presence of 200 mg 10 palladium on carbon. The catalyst was filtered off and the filtrate diluted to 25 cm3 with tetrahydrofuranand to 50 cm with distilled water. This solution was titrated to pH 7.20 using 0.2M lithium hydroxide solution and evaporated to afford a crystalline solid.This solid was washed with acetone and dried. Yield 330 mg 80 Rf SiO2 ethyl acetate ethanol water 8 4 2 0.47 detection by aqueous potassium permanganate spray . v Nujol 3160 tetrazol C R str , 1787, 1690, 1620 side band , 1605, 1580 side band , 1308, 1295, 1285, 1190, 1145, 1103, I 1070, 1052, 1038, 1030, 1015, 1002, 992, 897, 740 cm v KBr disc 3170, 1785, 1690, 1605, 1410, 1305, 1295, 1285, 1187, 1305, 1070, 1055, 1037, 1027, 1015, 1002, 995, 898, 740, 700 cm 1. 250M Hz 1H n.m.r. 6 D2O 2.12 4H, broad s,EMI88.1 3.06 1H, d, J 17 Hz, 6ssCH , 3.52 1H, dd, J 17 and 3 Hz, 6aCH , 4.58 1H, t, J 7 Hz, CHCH2CH2 4.65 477 2H, m,EMI88.2 3CH obscured by HOD, 5.62 1H, d, J 3 Hz, 5aCH , 8.74 1H, s,EMI88.3 Example 33a p Nitrobenzyl 9 p toluensulphonamidocarbonyloxy clavulanate To a solution of p nitrobenzylclavulanate 25.0g, 74.8 mmol in dichloromethane 100 ml at 0 C was added dropwise p toluenesulphonyl isocyanate 14.8 g, 74.8 mmol in dichloromethane 30 ml .The reaction was stirred at OOC for 1 hour, then the solvent removed under reduced pressure to give the title compound as a pale yellow foam 39.2g . max CHCl3 1810, 1750 and 1700 cm 1. H CDCl3 2.41 3H, s,EMI89.1 3.05 lH, d, J 1.7Hz, 6ss CH , 3.51 1H, dd, J, 17 and 2Hz, 6 alpha CH , 4.50 4.85 3H, m, 9 CH2 and 8 CH , 5.09 1H, s, 3 CH , 5.25 2H, s.EMI89.2 5.68 1H, d, J 2Hz, 5 CH , 7.30 7.48 5H, m, NH,EMI89.3 7.89 and 8.21 4H, 2 x dAB, J9 and 9Hz,EMI89.4 EMI89.5 Example 33b p Nitrobenzyl 2 2 bromoethoxy 2 vinyl clavam 3carboxylate p Nitrobenzyl 9 p toluenesulphonamido carbonyloxy clavulanate 12g 22.6 mmol was dissolved in 2 bromoethanol 20 ml 280 mmol and dimethylformamide 2 ml . The reaction mixture was allowed to stand at 400C for 16 hours then ethyl acetate 150 ml added.The organic phase was washed with water 3 x 200 ml and saturated brine then dried over anhydrous magnesium sulphate. Removal of the solvent gave a yellow solid which was subjected to silica gel clumn chromatography using ethyl acetate toluene 1 7 as eluent. Fractions containing the component Rf. 0.52 ethyl acetate toluene 1 7 were conbimed and evaporated in vacuo to yield the title compound as a white solid, which crystallised from ethanol as colourless needles 24 . rjmax KBr 1780 and 1750 cm l. SH CDCl3 3.09 lH, dd, Jl7 and 1Hz, 6b CH , 3.22 3.55 3H, m, 6 CH and 0 CH2CH2Br , 3.60 3.90 2H, m, OCH2CH2Br , 4.79 lH, s, 3 CH , 5.12 2H, s,EMI90.1 5.25 1H, dd, J9 and 3Hz, CH CH2 , 5.55 5.78 3H, m, 5 OH and CH CH2 , 7.46 and 8.20 4H, ABq, J9Hz, ArH . Example 33c p Nitrobenzyl 2 2 benzeneselenoethoxy 2 vinyl clavam3 carboxylate Sodium borohydride 0.26 g 6.9 mmol was added portionwise to diphenyldiselenide 1.86 g, 5.96 mmol in dimethylformamide 10 ml under nitrogen at room temperature. The solution was allowed to stand until colourless then added dropwise over 10 min. to a solution of p nitrobenzyl 2 2 bromoethoxy 2 vinylclavam 3 carboxylate 4.05 g 9.2 mmol in dimethylformamide 25 ml at 200C under nitrogen when the addition was complete the mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred for a further i hour.The solution was then poured into ethyl acetate 100 ml and the organic phase washed with saturated brine 2 x 150 ml , dilute hydrochloric acid 150 ml and saturated sodium bicarbonate solution 150 ml then dried over anhydrous magnesium sulphate. Evaporation in vacuo gave a yellow oil which was subjected to silica gel column chromatography using ethyl acetate toluene 1 7 as eluent combinig fractions containing component Rf 0.44 ethyl acetate toluene 1 7 and removing the solvent under reduced pressure gave the selenide as a colourless oil 97 . omax CHCl3 . 1800 and 1750 cm 1. H CDCl3 . 2.83 3.12 3H, m, O CH2CH2Se and 6ss CH ,3.36 lH, dd,Jl6 and 3Hz, 6 CH , 3.50 3.80 2H, m, OCH2CH2Se , 4.70 1H, s, 3 CH 1 5.10 2H, s,EMI91.1 5.19 lH, dd, J9 and 3Hz, CH CH2 , 5.51 5.75 3H, m, 5 CH and CH CH2 , 7.10 7.60 and 8.20 9H, m, ArH . Example 33d p Nitrobenzyl 2 2 benzeneseleninylethoxy 2 vinyl clavam 3 carboxylate p Nitrobenzyl 2 2 benzeneselenoethoxy 2 vinylclavam 3 carboxylate 4.3 g 8.3 mmol was dissolved in acetone 35 ml at 0 C and a suspension of sodium metaperiodate 3.5 g 16.3 mmol in water 15 ml added. The reaction mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred for 1 12 hours then poured into ethyl acetate 100 ml . The organic phase was washed with saturated brine 2 x 150 ml , saturated sodium bicarbonate solution 2 x 150 ml and dried over anhydrous magnesium sulphate.Removal of the solvent yielded the title compound as a colourless oil 4.6 g 97 . i max CHCl3 1800, 1750 and 1610 cm l, Example 33e p Nitrobenzyl 2 4 oxobutylidene clavam 3 carboxylate p Nitrobenzyl 2 2 benzeneseleninylethoxy 2vinyl clavam 3 carboxylate 4.5 g 8.4 mmol was heated under reflux in toluene 50 ml for 2 hour, then cooled and evaporated in vacuo. The resulting oil was subjected to column chromatography using ethyl acetate toluene 1 7 as eluent.Fractions containing component Rf 0.20 ethylacetate toluene 1 7 were combined and evaporated to give the desired aldehyde as colourless needles, 1.4 g 44 , as a 1 1 mixture of E and Z isomers. max CHCl3 1810, 1760, 1730 and 1700 cm 1. dH CDCl3 . 2.11 2.58 4H, m, CH2CH2CHO , 3.06 and 3.19 lH, 2 x dd, J 16 and 1Hz, 6ss CH , 3.49 and 3.53 lH, 2 x dd, J4 and 16Hz, 6 alpha CH , 4.63 and 5.10 lH, 2 x dt, J8 and 2Hz, CHCH2CH2CHO , 5.07 and 5.33 lH, 2 x d, J2Hz, 3 CH , 5.25 and 5.32 2H, m,EMI93.1 5.65 5.70 lH, m, 5 CH , 7.45 7.60 and 8.18 to 8.33 4H, m, ArH , 9.7 9.8 1H, m, CHCH2 2CHO . Example 33f p Nitrobenzyl 2 4 hydroxybutylidene clavam 3carboxylate p Nitrobenzyl 2 4 oxobutylidene clavam 3carboxylate 1.2 g, 3.3 mmol as a 5 3 mixture of Z andE isomers was dissolved in dry dimethoxyethane 20 ml and cooled to 200C. Sodium borohydride 0.15 g, 3.96 mmol was added potionwise over 5 minutes. The reaction was stirred at 200C for 4 hour, after which thin layer chromatography showed that all of the starting aldehyde had been consumed, and the reaction was diluted with ethyl acetate 100 ml . The organic phase was washed with saturated brine 2 x 100 ml , dilute hydrochloric acid solution, and sodium bicarbonate then dried over magnesium sulphate.Evaporation and silica gel column chromatography using ethylacetate toluene 1 1 as eluent gave the Z isomer only. 7.3 mg 6 . max CHCl3 1800, 1750 and 1700 cm 1. H CDC13 . 1.35 lH, broad s, OH , 1.60 2H, tt, J7Hz, sCHCH2CH2OH , 2.20 2H, dt, J7Hz, CHCH2 CH2 2OH , 3.08 1H, d, Jl6Hz, 6ss CH , 3.50 1H, dd,J16 and 3Hz, 6ss CH , 3.55 3.65 2R, m, CH CH2 2CH2OH , 4.63 1H, dt, J7 and 1Hz, CH CH2 3OH , 5.09 lH, d, 1Hz, 3 CR , 5.25 and 5.33 2H, ABq, Jl2Hz,EMI94.1 5.68 lH, d, J3Hz, 5 CH , 7.52 and 8.25 4H, ABq, J 8Hz, ArH . Example 34aBenzyl 2 4 phenoxybutylidene clavam 3 carboxylate To a solution of benzyl 2 4 hydroxybutylidene clavam 3 carboxylate 0.16 g 0.51 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 3 ml containing triphenylphosphine 0.15 g 0.57 mmol and phenol 0.07 g mmol at 0 C was added diethylazodicarboxylate 0.09 ml 0.57 mmol . The reaction was stirred at 0 C for 1 2 hour then allowed to warm to room temperature. Thin layer chromatography indicated that all of the starting material had been consumed and the reaction mixture was concentrated 1 ml and toluene 20 ml added. The organic phase was washed with dilute sodium hydroxyide solution 2 x 20 ml , saturated brine until aqueous washings were neutral then dried over anhydrous magnesium sulphate.Removal of the solvent in vacuo produced a yellow oil which was subjected to silica gel column chromatography using ethyl acetate cyclohexane 2 3 as eluent.Combining and evaporating fractions containing component Rf 0.54 ethylacetate cyclohexane 2 3 gave the title compound in 46 yield. D max CHCl3 1800, 1750 and 1700 cm 1. H CDCl3 . 1.78 2H, tt, 57.5Hz, CHCH2CH2CH2OPh , 2.26 2H, dt, J7.5Hz, CHCH2 CH2 OPh , 2.92 1H, dd, J17 and 1Hz, 6ss CH 3.40 1H, dd, H17 and 3Hz, 6 CH 3.88 2H, t, J7.5Hz, CH CH 2CH2OPh , 4.60 lH, dt, J7.5 and 2Hz,CH CH2 3OPh , 5.03 lH, d, J2Hz, 3 CH , 513, 5.22 2H,ABq, J12.5Hz, CH2Ar , 5.58 1H, d, J3Hz, 5 CH , 6.816.98 3H, m,EMI95.1 7.20 7.45 7H,EMI95.2 and CH2ArH . Example 34bSodium 2 4 phenoxybutylidene clavam 3 carboxylate To a solution of benzyl 2 4 phenoxybutylidene clavam 3 carboxylate 0.21 g 0.53 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 10 ml palladium on carbon 0.07 g was added. The mixture was hydrogenated at room temperature under 1 atmosphere of hydrogen for 2 hour then filtered. The filtrate was reduced to a small volume lml then partitioned between ethylacetate and water. The pH was adjusted to 7.5 with sodium hydroxide.Separation of the aqueous layer and evaporation produced a pale yellow glass which gave the title compound as an off white solid in 81 yield, after trituration with acetonitrile. umax KBr 1780, 1700 and 1610cm 1. SH D20 1.75 1.95 2H, m,CHCH2CH2CH2OPh , 2.13 2.43 2H, m, CHCH2 CH2 2OPh 2.73 1H, d, J 17Hz, 6ss CH , 3.40 1H, dd, J17 and 3Hz, 6 CH , 4.06 2H, t, J7Hz, CH CH2 2CH2OPh , 4.72 2H, t,EMI96.1 Example 35aBenzyl 2 4 N bnezyloxycarbonyl p toluenesulphonamidobutylidene clavam 3 carboxylate Benzyl 2 4 hydroxybutylidene clavam 3 carboxylate 0.4 g, 1.266 mmol eas dissolved in dry redistilled tetrahydrofuran 8 ml containing triphenylphosphine 0.365 g, 1.39 mmol and N benzyloxycarbonyl ptoluenesulphonamide 0.6 g, 1.97 mmol . This mixture was placed in a dry ice carbontetrachloride cooling bath and was immediately treated with a tetrahydrofuran dry and redistilled, 5 ml solution of diethylazodicarboxylate 0.22 g, 1.2632 mmol with vigorous stirring. After 5 minutes the reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature and after a further 15 minutes was diluted with ethyl acetate, washed with brine, dried MgSO4 and evaporated. The residue was chromatographed on silica gel toluene ethylacetate, 7 1 as eluent affording the title compound, 0.5105 g 67 yield . max film 1802, 1740 sh, 1731, and 1701 cm 1. s CDC13 1.6 2.25 4H, m, CH2,CH2N , 2.33 and 2.36 3H, each s, rotomeric CH3 , 2.94 lH, d,J17Hz, 6ss CH , 3.46 lH, d, J17 and 3Hz, 6 alpha CH , 3.633.96 2H, m, C C.CH2 , 4.56 1H, brt, J7Hz C CH , 5.02 lH, brs, 3 CH , 5.07 and 5.18 4H, each s, CO2CH2x2 , 5.62 1H, d, J3Hz, 5 CH and 7.00 7.800 14H, m, aromatics . Example 35bSodium 2 4 p toluenesulphonamido butylidene clavam3 carboxylate Benzyl 2 4 N benzyloxycarbonyl p toluene sulphonamidosulphonamido butylidene clavam 3carboxylate 0.5105g, 0.845 mmol in aqueous 1 ml tetrahydrofuran 12 ml containing sodium hydrogen carbonate 0.071 g, 0.845 mmol and a catalyst Pd C, 10 0.1 g was hydrogenated for 1 hour. At the end of this time the reaction mixture was filtered and the filtrate evaporated.The residue was taken up into dry acetone and filtered and the title compound was obtained as a white solid upon concentration of the solvent, 0.0155 g 4.5 yield . umax Nujol 3270, 1789, 1701 and 1600 cm l, i D2O 1.38 1.57 2H, m, CH2.CH2.CH2 , 1.91 2.13 2H, m, CH2N , 2.42 3H, s,CH3 , 2.79 2.92 2H, m, C C.CH2 , 2.98 1H, d, Jl7Hz 6ss CH , 3.53 1H, dd, J17 and 2Hz 6 alpha CH , 4.53 1H, br t, J8Hz C CR , 4.80 2H, s, CH2Ph , 4.82 1H, s, 3 CH , 5.60 lH, d, J 2Hz, 5 CH and 7.45, 7.73 4H, AA XX ,J13 Hz, ArH . Example 36a Benzyl 2 4 acetoxybutylidene clavam 3 carboxylate A solution of benzyl2 4 hydroxybutylidene clavam 3 carboxylate 3.19 g 0.6 mmol in dichloromethane 2 ml as treated with pyridine 0.06 ml 0.7 mmol and acetyl chloride 0.05 ml 0.7 mmol at 0 C for 5 min, after which thin layer chromatography indicated that all of the starting alochol had been consumed. The solution was diluted to 25 ml with dichloromethane and the organic phase washed with water 2 x 25 ml , dilute hydrochloric acid 1 x 25 ml , saturated sodium bicarbonate solution 1 x 25 ml , saturated brine 2 x 25 ml and dried over anhydrous magnesium sulphate.Removal of the solvent under reduced pressure gave the title compound as a colourless oil yield 88 max. 5 CHCl3 1800, 1735 and 1700 cm dH CDC13 1.64 2H, tt, J 7 Hz, CH2CH2CH2CH2O 2.04 3H, s, CH3CO 2.14 2H, dt, J 7 Hz, CHCH2 CH2 20 , 3.05 1H, d, J 17 Hz, 6ss CH , 3.46 1H, dd, J 17 and 3Hz, 6a CH , 4.00 2H, t, J 7 Hz, CH CH2 2CH2O 4.56 1H, dt, J 7 and 1 Hz, CH CH2 30 5.03 1H, d, J 1 Hz, 3 CH , 5.15 and 5.24 2H, ABq, J 12 Hz, CH2Ph , 5.65 1H, d, J 3 Hz, 5 CH , 7.30 7.45 5H, m, ArH . Example 36bLithium 2 4 acetoxybutylidene clavam 3 carboxylate Palladium on barium sulphate 0.08 g was prehydrogenated at room temperature in tetrahydrofuran 5 ml for 5 min. then benzyl 2 4 acetoxybutylidene clavam 3 carboxylate 0.21 g 0.58 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 10 ml was added. The reaction mixture was hydrogenated for 0.75 hr, after which thin layer chromatography indicated that all of the starting ester had been consumed and the catalyst was filtered off. The catalyst was washed with tetrahydrofuran 20 ml and the combined filtrates reduced to a small volume 1 ml then partitioned between ethyl acetate and water.Adjustment of the pH to 7.2 with lithium hydroxide followed by separation of the aqueous layer and removal of the water, under reduced pressure, gave an off white solid, which was washed with tetrahydrofuran and filtered, then dried in vacuo to give the title compound yield 61 . 1 max. KBr 1780, 1700 sh and 1615 cm H D2O 1.74 2H, tt, J 6.8 Hz, CHCH2CH2CH2O , 2.07 3H, s, CH3O , 2.10 2.28 2H, m, CHCH2 CH2 2O , 3.05 1H, d, J 18 Hz, 6ss CH , 3.54 1H, dd, J 18 and 2.7 Hz, 6a CH 4.08 2H, t, J 6.8 Hz, CH CH2 2CH2O , 4.70 1H, dt, J 6.8 and 1 Hz, CH CH2 30 , 4.87 1H, d, J 1 Hz, 3 CH , 5.65 1H, d, J 2.7 Hz, 5 CH . Example 37aBenzyl 2 4 benzyloxybutylidene clavam 3 carboxylate To a solution of benzyl 2 4 hydroxybutylidene clavam 3 carboxylate 0.2 g 0.63 mmol in dichloromethane 2 wl at 0 C was added pyridine 0.06 ml 0.7 mmol and benzoyl chloride 0.08 ml 0.7 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C for 5 min. after which thin layer chromatography indicated that all of the starting alcohol had been consumed. The solution was diluted with dichloromethane 20 ml and the organic phase washed with water 2 x 25 ml , dilute hydrochloric acid 1 x 25 ml , saturated sodium bicarbonate solution 1 x 25 ml , saturated brine 2 x 25 ml and dried over anhydrous magnesium sulphate.Removal or the solvent gave a yellow oil which was subjected to silica gel column chromatography eluting with ethyl acetate cyclohexane 2 3 . Fractions were combined which contained the componentRf 0.56 ethyl acetate cyclohexane 2 3 and evaporated in vacuo to give the title compound as a colourless oil yield 81 . 1 v max 596 CHCl3 1800, 1745 and 1710 cm 1, dH CDCl3 1.78 2H, tt, J 7 Hz, CHCH2CH2CH2O , 2.24 2H, dt, J 7 Hz, CHCH2 CH2 20 , 3.02 1H, dd, J 17 and 1 Hz, 6ss CH , 3.42 1H, dd, J 17 and 3 Hz, 6a CH , 4.28 2H, t, J 7 Hz, OH CR2 2CH2O , 4.60 1H, dt, J 7 and 1Hz, CH CH2 3O , 5.04 1H, d, J 1 Hz, 3 CH . 5.16 and 5.25 2H, ABq, J 12.5 Hz, CH2Ph , 5.62 1H, d, J 3 Hz, 5 .CH , 7.30 7.38 5H, m, CH2Ph , 7.39 7.50 2H, m,EMI101.1 7.51 7.62 1H, m,EMI101.2 8.00 8.12 2H, m,EMI101.3 Example 37bLithium 2 4 benzoyloxybutylidene clavam 3 carboxylate Palladium on barium sulphate 0.07 g was prehydrogenated at room temperature in tetrahydrofuran 5 ml for 5 min., then a solution of benzyl 2 4benzoyloxybutylidene clavem 3 carboxylate 0.20 g 0.47 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 10 ml was added. The reaction mixture was hydrogenated for 1 hr, after which thin layer chromatography indicated that all of the starting ester had been consumed and the catalyst was filtered off.The catalyst was washed with tetrahydrofuran 20 ml and the combined filtrates reduced to a small volume and partitioned between ethyl acetate and water. Adjustment of the pH to 7.2 with lithium hydroxide followed by separation of the aqueous layer and removal of the water under reduced pressure gave an off white solid which was washed with tetrahydrofuran and filtered, then dried in vacuo to give the title compound yield 6896 . 1 v max KBr 1785, 1715, 170Q sh and 1610 cm 1, dH D2O 1.83 2.01 2H, m, CHCH2CH2CH2O , 2.16 2.44 2H, m, CH2CH2 CH2 2O , 2.84 1R, d, J 16 Hz, 6B CH 3.42 1H, dd, J 16 and 3 Hz, 6 alpha CH 4.34 2H, t, J 6.7 Hz, CH CH2 2CH2O , 4.76 1H, t,J 6.7 Hz, CH CH2 3O , partly obscured by HOD peak , 5.58 1H, d, J 3 Hz, 5 CH , 7.55 2H, dd, J 8.3 Hz,EMI102.1 7.70 1H, dd, J 8.3 Hz,EMI102.2 8.05 2H, d, J 8.3 Hz,EMI102.3 Example 38a Benzyl 2 4 p toluenesulphonamidocarbonyloxybutylidene clavam 3 carboxylate Benzyl 2 4 hydroxybutylidene clavam 3 carboxylate 227 mg 0.716 mmol in dichloromethane 5 cm3 at 100 was treated with 1 equivalent of 2 toluenesulphc nyl isocyanate and stirred for b hour allowing the temperature to rise to 100. The solvent was evaporated and the residue chromatographed on silica eluting with ethyl acetate cyclohexane 1 1 . Fractions were collected containing the title compound Rf Si02 ethyl acetate cyclohexane 1 1 0.43 detection by aqueous potassium permanganate spray . Combined fractions were evaporated to afford 380 mg of an oil. v film 1800, 1750, 1700 shoulder , the proton n.m.r. spectra was consistent with the desired product. Example 38bSodium 2 4 p toluenesulphonamidocarbonyloxybutylidenel clavam 3 carboxylate Benzyl 2 4 p toluenesulphonamidocarbonylpxybutyl idene clavam carboxylate 200 mg, 0.389 mmol in tetrahydrof an 10 cm was hydrogenolysed at atmospheric pressure in the presence of 108 palladium on charcoal 70 mg for 30 minutes. The catalyst was filtered off and the filtrate, dilueted to 25 cm with tetrahydrofuran and 25 cm water. The pH was adjusted to 7.2 using dilute sodium hydroxide. The tetrahydrofuran was evaporated under vacuum and the aqueous residue diluted with water and washed several times with ethyl acetate.The aqueous phase was evaporated and triturated with tetrahydrofuran acetonitrile to form apale buff coloured solid, yield 110 mg v Nujol 1785, 1700, 1620, 1280, 1145, 1120, 1072, 895, 860, 810, 790 cm 1. The proton n.m.r. was consistent with the desired compound Example 39aBenzyl 2 4 3 methyl 2,4,5 trioxoimidazolidinyl butylidene clavam 3 carboxylate Benzyl 2 4 hydroxybutylidene clavam 3 carboxylate 0.388 g 1.224 mmol in dry redistilled tetrahydrofuran 5 ml containing triphenylphosphine 0.353 g, 1.346 mmol and N methyl 2,4,5 trioxoimidazolidine 0.235 g, 1.836 mmol was placed under a stream of dry nitrogen at 00. Neat diethylazodicarboxylate 0.234 g, 1.346 mmol was then added and after 20 minutes the reaction was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with brine 2 x . The organic layer was dried and evaporated prior to silica gel chromatography toluene ethylacetate 7 1 . The title ester was thus obtained in 93 yield 0.488 g . max. film 1801, 1779, 1732 and 1703 sh cm 1 6 CDC13 1.50 2.23 4H, m, C.CH2.CH2 , 2.72 1H, d,J 16 Hz, 6ss CH , 3.23 3H, s, CH3 , 3.26 3.76 3H, m, 6 alpha CH and CH2.N , 4.55 1H, br. t, J 6 Hz, 8 CH , 5.03 1H, br. s, 3 CH , 5.19 2H, s, OCH2C6H6 , 5.63 1H, d,J 3 Hz, 5 CH and 7.36 5H, s, ArH . Example 39bSodium 2 4 3 methyl 2,4,5 trioxoimidazolidinyl butylidene clavam 3 carboxylate To a solution of benzyl 2 4 3 methyl 2,4,5 trioxoimidazolidinyl butylidene clavam 3 carboxylate 0.1 g 0.23 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 5 ml was added 10 palladium on carbon 0.02 g . The mixture was hydrogenated at room temperature for a quarter of an hour, after which thin layer chromatography indicated that all of the starting ester had been consumed.The catalyst was filtered off, washed with tetrahydrofuran 15 ml and the combined filtrates were reduced to a small volume and partitioned between ethyl acetate 10 ml and water 15 ml . The pH was adjusted to 7.5 with sodium hydroxide solution and the aqueous layer separated. Removal of the water produced a colourless glass which gave the title compound in 758 yield as a white solid after trituration with acetone. max. Nujol 1790, 1740, 1700 and 1610 cm Example 40Benzyl 2 4 trifluoromethanesulphonyloxybutylidene clavam 3 carboxylate Benzyl 2 4 hydroxybutylidene clavam 3 carboxylate 0.448 g, 1.4132 mmol in dry toluene 8 ml was placed under an atmosphere of dry nitrogen and cooled to 200C.Triethylamine 0.197 ml, 1.413 mmol was then added followed by trifluoromethanesulphonic anhydride 0.23775 ml, 1.413 mmol in dry toluene 3 ml . The reaction was judged to be complete after 1 h t.l.c. and was diluted with ethylacetate and washed with brine 2 x and saturated sodium hydrogencarbonate solution.The organic layer was dried MgSO4 and evaporated to give the title ester in 91 yield 0.5782 g which may be used without further purification. v max. film 1803, 1754 and 1702 cm 1. 6 CDCl3 1.40 2.50 4H, m, C.CH2.CH2 , 3.02 1H, d, J 18 Hz, 6ss CH , 3.50 1H, dd, J 18 and 3 Hz, 6a CH , 4.24 4.66 3H, m, 8 CH and CH2.O.S , 5.07 1H, br. s, 3 CH , 5.20 2H, s, CO2CH2 , 5.67 1H, d, J 3 Hz, 5 CH , and 7 38 5H, s, C6R6 . Example 41Benzyl 2 4 phenylthiobutylidene clavam 3 carboxylate A solution of thiophenol .04 ml in dimethylformamide 4 ml was cooled in an ice bath and sodium hydride 16 mg of 50 mineral oil dispersion was added.When the solution became clear a solution of benzyl 2 4 p toluenesulphonyloxy butylidene clavam 3carboxylate 139 mgs in dimethylformamide 2 ml was added. The mixture was stirred for 1 hr and allowed to warm to room temperature. Acetic acid 0.1 ml was then added and the solution was diluted with ethyl acetate. The ethyl acetate solution was washed successively with sodium bicarbonate solution, three portions of water, and brine. The solution was dried over magnesium sulphate and evaporated, the product was obtained by column chromatography of the residue Kieselgel 4 1 petroleum ether ethyl acetate as eluent. Yield, 53 mgs. 1 I r. v max CHC13 1803, 1750 and 1698 cm 1. N.m..r. 6 CDCl3 1.55 2H, quintet, J 7 Hz , 2.14 2H, q, J 7 Hz 2.77 2H, t, J 7 Hz , 2.90 1H, d,J 17 Hz , 3.38 1H, dd, J 3 and 17 Hz , 4.47 1H, broad t, J 7 Hz , 4.93 1H, s , 5.08 2H, s , 5.53 1H, d, J 3 Hz 7.1 7.3 10H, m . Example 42Benzyl E 2 4 p toluenesulphonyloxy butylidene clavam 3carboxylate Benzyl E 2 4 hydroxybutylidene clavam 3 carboxylate 240 mg 0.76 mmol in dry dichloromethane 3 ml was treated sequentially with p toluene sulphonyl chloride 289 mg 1.5 mmol and dry pyridine 183 ml 2.27 mmol .The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 24 hours. After which t.l.c. EtOAc cyclohexane, Rf 0.67 showed the reaction to be complete. Solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue taken up in ethyl acetate and washed with 20 citric acid solution, water and brine the organic phase was separated, dried MgSO4 and evaporated.The residual oil was fractionated on silica gel, elution with ethyl acetate cylohexane 1 2 gave the required tosylate in 65 yield. vmax film 1800, 1750, 1700. 6 CDCl3 1.53 2H, m, CH2CH2CH20S02 , 1.97 2H, m, CH2CH2CH20S02 , 2.45 3H, s, CH3 , 3.0 1H, d, Jl7Hz, 6ss CH 3.43 lH, dd, J17 and 3Hz, 6 CH , 3.9 2H, t, J6.5Hz, CH2CH2CH20S02 , 4.91 lH, dt, J7 and 2Hz, 8 CH , 5.12 lH, bs, 3 CH , 5.17 2H, s, C02CH2 , 5.63 lH, d, J3Hz, 5 alpha CH , EMI109.1 Example 43Conversion of benzyl E 2 4 hydroxybutylidene clavam 3carboxylate to benzyl Z 2 4 hydroxybutylidene clavam 3 carboxylate A solution of benzyl E 2 4 hydroxybutylidene clavam3 carboxylate 50 mg in dry benzene 100 ml was irradiated under nitrogen in a quartz vessel using aHanovia low pressure lamp with maximum at 254 n.m.n.m.r. of the mixture after 6 hours showed a 60 40 mixture of Z E isomers.Example 44Benzyl Z 2 4 iodobutylidene clavam 3 carboxylate Benzyl Z 2 4 hydroxybutylidene clavam 3 carboxylate 134 mg 0.42 mmol in dry dimethylformamide 8 ml was treated with triphenyl phosphite methiodide 229 mg 0.51 mmol , at room temperature, under a nitrogen atmosphere. The reaction was stirred at room temperature overnight solvent was removed in vacuo and the residual oil was dissolved in ethyl acetate, washed with water, brine and dried MgS04 . Evaporation of the solvent gave a yellow oil which was fractionated on silica gel, n.m.r. of the crude material before chromatography was consistent with the correct structure . Example 45Benzyl 2 4 N acetyl N benzyloxyzarbonyl aminobutylidene clavam 3 carboxylate To a solution of benzyl 2 4 hydroxybutylidene clavam3 carboxylate 0.388g 1.22 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 5 ml containing triphenylphosphine 0.35 g 1.33 mmol , andN benzyloxycarbonylacetamide 0.35 g 1.82 mmol at 0 C was added diethylazodicarboxylate 0.21 ml 1.33 mmol .The reaction mixtures was stirred at 0 C for i hour then allowed to warm to room temperature. Thin layer chromatography indicated that all of the starting material had been consumed and the reaction mixture was reduced to small volume lml and toluene 30 ml added.The organic phase was washed with saturated brine 2 x 30 ml and dried over anhydrous magnesium sulphate.Removal of the solvent gave a yellow oil which was subjected to silica gel column chromatography using ethyl acetate cyclohexane 2 3 as elutent. Fractions containing the component Rf 0.50 ethyl acetate cyclohexane 2.3 were combined and evaporated to give the title compound in 28 yield as a colourless oil. H CDCl3 1.00 2.26 4H, m, CHCH2 CH2 2N andCHCH2CH2CH2N , 2.45 3R, 5, EMI111.1 2.92 lH, d, J 17Hz, 6ss CH , 3.42 lH, dd, J 17 and 2Hz, 6a CH, partially obscured by t at 6 3.68 , 3.68 2H, broad t, J 7Hz,CH CH2 2CH2N, partially obscured by dd at 3.42 , 4.50 lH, broad, J Hz, CH CH2 3N , 4.94 lH, broad s, 3 CH , 5.16 and 5.20 4H, 2 x s, NC02CH2Ph and C.CO2CH2Ph , 5.55 lH, d, J 2Hz, 5 CH , 7.25 and 7.30 lOH, 2 x s,ArH .