# Therapeutic compounds containing beta lactams.

## Abstract
A compound of formula I or a salt or ester thereof

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A compound of formula I or a salt or ester thereof.EMI22.1 wherein R1 is a C26 alkyl, C1 6 alkyl substituted by up to three fluorine atoms, C2 6 alkenyl, C2 6 alkynyl group or an aromatic hydrocarbon optionally substituted by up to three C16 alkyl groups. 2. A compound as claimed in claim 1 wherein the salt or ester is pharmaceutically acceptable. 3. A compound as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein R1 is C36 alkyl. 4. A compound as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein R1 is phenyl or naphthyl optionally substituted by up to three C1 6 alkyl groups. 5. A compound as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 whereinR is n propyl, n butyl or phenyl. 6. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound as claimed in claim 2 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. 7. A pharmaceutical composition as claimed in claim 6 which further comprises a penicillin. 8. A process for the preparation of a compound of formula II or a salt or ester thereof EMI23.1 wherein R is a group R1 as defined with respect to formula I or a methyl group, which process comprises reacting a compound of formula cEli EMI23.2 wherein Rx is a carboxy protecting group, and R3 is chlorine, bromine, iodine or a group OR4, wherein R4 is an etherifying or esterifying group, with an organometallic base of formula RêLi, Rê Cu or a Grignard reagent of formula R2MgX wherein X is chlorine, bromine or iodine and thereafter where necessary carrying out one or more of the following steps a removing the carboxy protecting group RX or b converting a salt to the free carboxylic acid or to an ester, or to a different salt. 9. A process as claimed in claim 8 wherein the organometallic base is an organo copper lithium reagent of 2 formula LiCuR2 10. A compound as claimed in claim 1 for use as an antibacterial agent

## Description
THERAPEUTIC COMPOUNDS CONTAINING LACTAMS This invention relates to a class of novel p lactam compounds, to the process for their preparation and to pharmaceutical compositions containing them. U.K. Patent Nos. 1,508,977 and 1,508,978 disclose inter alia clavulanic acid and its salts and esters. Clavulanic acid has the formula A EMI1.1 We have now found a novel class of compounds containing t ie clavam nucleus, which have anti bacterial and lactar.ase inhibitory activity. iccordingly, the present invention provides a compound or formula I or a salt cr ester thereof EMI2.1 wherein R is a C26 alkyl, C1 6 alkyl substituted by lip to three fluorine atoms, C26 alkenyl, C2 6 alkynyl group or an aromatic hydrocarbon optionally substituted by up to three C 1 6 alkyl groups. The major utility of the compound of formula I is as a pharmaceutical and, accordingly, the salts and esters of the compound of formula I are preferably pharmaceutically acceptable. The compound of.formula I may also be used as an antibacterial or B lactamase inhibitor in non pharmaceutical uses such as, for example as a disinfectant or paint additive those salts and esters which are not normally considered to be pharmaceutically acceptable are suitable for this application. Suitablealkyl groups for R1 include the C36 alkyl groups. Suitable aromatic hydrocarbon for R include phenyl and naphthyl optionally substituted by up to three C16 alkyl groups. Most suitably R1 is n propyl, n butyl group or a phenyl group. Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compounds of formula I include metals salts, eg aluminium, alkali metal salts such as sodium or potassium, alkaline earth metal salts such as calcium or magnesium and ammonium or substituted ammonium salts, for example those with lower alkyl arnines such as triethySsdne, cycloalkylamines such as bicyclohexylanine, or witll enzylanne, N,Ndienzylethylenedlaiine, l ephenamine, N e my alpéridine, cr N benzyl ss phenethylamine. Examples of suitable pharmaceutically acceptable groups include those which break down readily in the human body to leave the parent acid or its salt, for example acyloxyalkyl groups such as acetoxymethyl, pivaloyloxymethyl, a aceto y ethyl and a pivaloyloxymethyl groups alkoxycarbonyloxyalyl groups, such as ethoxycarbonyloxymethyl dialkylamino alkyl groups such as dimethylaminomethyl, dimethylaminoethyl, diethylaminomethyl or diethylaminoethyl and alpha ethoxycaronyl oxyethyl and lactone groups such as phthalidyl or dimethoxy phthalidyl. The present invention also provides a pharmaceutical composition which comprises a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The compositions of the invention include those iri a form adapted for oral, topical or parenteral use and may be used for the treatment of the infection in animals including humans. Suitable forms of the compositions of this invention include tablets, capsules, creams, syrups, suspensions, solutions, reconstitutable powders and sterile forms suitable for injection or infusion. Such compositions may contain conventional pharmaceutically acceptable materials such as diluents, binders, colours, flavours, preservatives, disintegrant and the like in accordance with conventional pharmaceutical practice in the manner well understood by those skilled in the art of formulating anti biotics. Injectable or infusable compositions of a compound of the invention are particularly suitable as high blood levels of the compound can occur after administration by injection or infusion. Thus, one preferred composition aspect of this invention comprises a compound of the invention in sterile form and most suitably in sterile crystalline form. The injectable solution of the compound of this invention may be made up in a sterile pyrogen free liquid such as water, aqueous ethanol or the like. An alternative approach to administering the compounds of this invention is to utilise an injectable suspension.Such suspensions may be made up in sterile water sterile saline or the like, and may also contain suspending agents such as polyvinylpyrrolidone, lecithin or the like.Alternatively such compositions may be prepared in an acceptable oil suspending agent such as arachis oil or its equivalent. For use in such suspensions the compounds ow this invention should be in the form of fine particles. Unit dose compositions comprising a compound of this invention adapted for oral administration form a further suitable composition aspect of this invention. Unit dose compositions comprising a compound of this invention adapted for topical administration are also presented by this invention. In this instance topical administration also includes local administration to internal surfaces of mammary glands of cattle, for example during the treatment of mastitis by intra mammary administration. The compound of the formula may be present in the composition as sole therapeutic agent or it may be present together with other therapeutic agents such as a penicillin or cephalosporin. Considerable advantages accrue from the inclusion of a penicillin or cephalosporin which shows instability to lactamases since the resulting composition shows enhanced effectiveness synergy . Suitable peniciLlins, cephalosporins or other B lactam anti biotics for inclusion in such synergistic compositions include not only those known to be highly susceptible to p lactamases but also those which have a degree of intrinsic resistance to 3 lactamases. Suitable penicillins for inclusion in the compositicns of this invention include benzylpenicillin, phenoxymethylpenicillin, carbenicillin, azidocillin, propicillin, ampicillin, amoxycillin, epicillin, ticarcillin, cyclacillin, pirbenicillin, azlocillin, mezlocillin, sulbenicillin, pipericallin, anc other known penicillins including pro drugs therefor such as their in vivo hydrolysable esters such as the acetoxymethyl, pivaloyloxymethyl, a ethoxycarbonyloxyethyl or phthalidyl esters of ampicillin, benzylpenicillin or amoxycillin, and aldehyde or ketone adducts of penicillins containing a 6 aaminoacetamide side chain such as hetacillin, metampicillin and analogous derivatives of amoxycillin or a esters of carbenicillin or ticarcillin such as their phenyl or indanyl esters. Suitable cephalosporins for inclusion in the compositions of this invention include cefatrizine, cephaloridine, cephalothin, cefazolin, cephalexin, cephacetrile, cephamn dole nafate, cephapirin, cephradine, 4 hydroxycephalexin, cefaparole, cephaloglycin, cefoperazone and other known cephalosporins or pro drugs thereof. Such compounds are frequently used in the form of a salt or hydrate of the like. Naturally if the penicillin or cephalosporins in the composition is not suitable for oral administration then the composition will be adapted for parenteral administration. Highly favoured penicillins for use in the compositons of this invention include ampicillin,amoxycillin, carben cillin and ticarcillin. Such penicillins may be used as a pharmaceutically acceptable salt such as the sodium salt.Alternatively the ampicillin or amoxycillin may be used in the form of fine particles of the zwitterionic form generally as ampicillin trihydrate or amoxycillin trihycrate for use in an injectable suspension, for example in the manner hereinbefore described for a compound of this invention. The preferred penicillin for use in the synergistic composition is amoxycillin, for example as its sodium salt or trihydrate. Particularly suitable cephalosporins for use in the compositions of this invention include cephaloridine and cefazolin which may be in the form of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt for example the sodium salt. When present together with a cephalosporin or penicillin, the ratio of a compound of the invention to the penicillin or cephalosporin agent may vary over a wide range of ratios such as from 10 1 to 1 10 for example about 3 1, 2 1, 1 1, 1 2, 1 3, 1 4, 1 5 or 1 6, wt wt, based on pure free anti biotic equivalent . Orally administrable compositions containing a compound of the invention will normally contain relatively more synergist than corresponding injectable compositions. The total quantity of a compound of the invention in any unit dosage form will normally be between 25 and 1000 mg and will usually be between 50 and 500 mg, for example about 62.5, 100, 125, 150, 200 or 250 mg. Compositions of this invention may be used for the treatment of infections of inter alia the respiratory tract, the urinary tract and soft tissues in humans and mastitis in cattle. Normally between 50 and 3000 mg of the compounds of the invention will be administered each day of treatemnt but more usually between 100 and 1000 mg of the compounds of the invention will be administered per day, for example at 1 6 doses, more usually as 2, 3 or 4 doses. However, for the treatment of more severe systemic infections or infections of particularly intransigent organisms higher doses may be used in accordance with clinical practice. The penicillin or cephalosporin in the synergistic composition of this invention will normally be present at approximately the amount at which it is conventionally used which will usually be expected to be from about 62.5 to 3000 mg per dose, more usually about 125, 250, 500 or 1000 mg per dose. One particularly favoured composition of this invention will contain from 150 to 1000 mg of amoxycillin as the trihydrate or sodium salt and from 25 to 500 mg of a compound of this invention. A further particularly favoured composition of this invention will contain from 150 to 1000 mg of ampicillin or a pro drug therefor and from 25 to 500 mg of a compound of this invention. Most suitably this form of composition will contain ampicillin trihydrate, ampicillin anhydrate, sodium ampicillin, hetacillin, pivampicillin hydrochloride, bacampicillin hydrochloride, or talampicillin hydrochlor,de. Most suitably this form of the composition will contain a compound of the formula I when in crystalline form. Most suitably the preceding composition will contain from 200 to 700 mg of the penicillin component. Most suitably the preceding composition will comprise from 50 to 250 mg of a compound of the formula I preferably in crystalline form. Such compositions may be adapted for oral or parenteral use except when containing an in vivo hydrolysable ester of ampicillin or amoxycillin in which case the compositions will not be adapted for parenteral administration. Another particularly favoured compositiÏn of this invention will contain from 200 to 2000 mg of carbenicil in, ticarcillin or a pro drug therefor and from 50 to 500 mg of a compound of the invention. Suitably this form of composition will contain di scdium carbenicillin. Suitably this form of the composition will contain di sodium ticarcillin. More suitably this form of the composition will contain from 75 to 250 mg of a compound of the formula I preferably in crystalline form. Such compositions containing di salts of carbenicillin and ticarcillin will be adapted for parenteral administration. The present invention also provides a method of treating bacterial infections in humans or domestic mammals which comprises the administration of a compositions of this invention. Commonly the infection treated will be due to a strain of Staphylococcus aureus, Klebsiella aeroqenes, Eschericia coli, Proteus sp., Bacteroides fraqilis or the like. Thz organisms believed to be most readily treated by an antibacterially effective amount of a compound of this invention is Staphylococcus aureus. The other organisms named are more readily treated by using a synergistically effective amount of the compound of the invention and a penicillin or cephalosporin. The administration of the two components may take place separately but in general we prefer to use a composition containing both the synergist and the penicillin or cephalosporin. The indications for treatment include respiratory tract and urinary tract infections in humans and mastitis in cattle. The present invention also provides a process for the preparation of a compound of formula II or a salt or ester thereof EMI9.1 wherein Rê is a group RÚ as defined with respect to formula I or a methyl group, which process comprises reacting a compound of formula II EMI9.2 wherein RX is a carboxy protecting group, and R3 is chlorine, bromine, iodine or a group OR4, wherein R4 is an etherifying or esterifying group, with an organometallic base of formula R2Li, R2Cu or a Grignard reagent of formula R XgX wherein X is chlorine, bromine or iodine and thereafter where necessary carrying out one or more of the following steps a removing the carboxy protecting group R or b converting a salt to the free carboxylic acid or to an ester, or to a different salt. Compounds of formula III wherein R is chlorine, bromine or iodine may be prepared by the methods described in German OLS 2657081. Compounds of formula III wherein R is a group OR4 may be prepared by the methods disclosed in U.K. Patent No. 1565209. The present process when performed using the organolithium or Grignard reagent is suitably performed in the presence of cuprous ions. A preferred reagent for use in the present process is the organocopper lithium reagent of formula LiCuR22. Suitable groups R3 in the compound of formula III include group oR4 wherein R4 is a C16 alkyl group optionally substituted by a C16 alkoxy group.Preferably R is a methexymethyl, ethoxymethyl group or , dichloroacetyl group. Suitable carboxy protecting groups for the group C02RX in formula IIL include ester derivatives of the carboxylic acid. The derivative is preferably one which may readily be cleaved at a later stage of the reaction. Suitable ester forming carboxyl blocking groups are those which may be removed under conventional conditions.Such groups for RX include benzyl, p methoxybenzyl,2,4,6trimethylbenzyl, 3, 5 di t butyl benzyl, 4 pyridylmethyl, allyl, diphenylmethyl, triphenylmethyl, 2 benzyloxyphenyl, 4 methylthiopropyl, methoxymethyl, a silyl, or phosphorusV containing group, or methyl or ethyl. The carboxylic group of a salt thereof may be regenerated from any of the above esters by usual methods appropriate to the particular RX group, for example, basecatalysed hydrolysis, or by enzymically catalysed hydrolysis, or by hydrogenation. The preceding reaction normally takes place in a solvent inert under the reaction conditions such as diethyl ether, di isopropyl ether, tetrahydrofuran or dioxane. The reaction is generally carried out at a depressed or non elevated temperature, for example, 800C to 300C, and preferably at a depressed temperature, for example 80 to 00C, and conveniently at about 700C. Acids within formula I may also be prepared by the careful acidification of a corresponding salt such as the sodium salt. Salts within formula I may be prepared by treatment of an acid within formula I with, for example, sodium ethyl hexanoate or potassium ethyl hexanoate. Salts within formula I may also be prepared by salt exchange in conventional manner, for example a solution of the lithium salt in water may be passed through a bed of ion exchange resin in the sodium form eg Amberlite 120 a sodium salt of a sulphonated polystyrene divinyl benzene co polymer in about ten fold excess until elution is complete the resulting sodium salt may be obtained by freeze drying or by evaporation to crystallisation.Similarly, a sodium salt may be converted to a lithium salt or to a potassium salt in a similar manner. The following Examples illustrate the invention. Example 1Ethoxymethyl 9 methyl 9 deoxyclavulanateEMI13.1 Methyllithium 2M solution in ethyl, 31 ml was added to a stirred suspension of cuprous iodide 5.9 g in dry ether 30 ml at 0 under nitrogen. The mixture was maintained at Oo for 0.5 hr and then cooled to 700. Ethoxymethyl 9 0 ethoxymethylclavulanate 2.0 g in ether 10 ml was then added and the solution was stirred at 700 for 1 hr. A mixture of ethyl acetate 80 ml and aqueous saturated ammonium chloride solution 100 ml was added, which was then allowed to come to room temperature.The organic layer was separated and washed with dilute hdyrochloric acid, saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate, brine, dried, and evaporated. The residue was chromatographed over silica gel 20 g . Elution of the column with petrol ethyl acetate 2 1 gave the title compound 0.3 g, 19 , 20 48.70 c, 1.3 CHCl3 , v max CHC13 1800, 1750, 1695, 1300 and 1120 cm H CDCl3 0.95 3H, t, J 8Hz, 10 C 3 , 1.20 3H, t, J 8Hz, OCH2CH3 , 2.10 2H, quintet, J 8Hz, 9 CH2 , 3.00 lH, d, J 17Hz, 6ss CH , 3.45 1H, dd, J 2.5Hz, J1 17Hz, 6a CH , 3.65 2H, q, J 8Hz, OCH2CH3 , 4.60 1H, t, J 8Hz, 8 CH , 5.00 1H, s, 3 CH , 5.30 2H, ABq, J 7Hz, OCH2O , and 5.65 1H, d, J 2.5Hz, 5 CH . Found M 255.1105. C12H17N05 requires M 255.1107 . Example 2Sodium 9 methyl 9 deoxyclavulanate EMI14.1 Lithium bromide 0.3 g was added to a solution of ethoxymethyl 9 methyl 9 deoxyclavulanate 0.1 g in N,Ndimethylformamide 6 ml and the mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture was then filtered and the filtrate concentrated to 1 ml.This was diluted with ethyl acetate 10 ml and washed with brine 2 x 10 ml . Water 15 ml was then added and the pH adjusted to 7.5 with aqueous sodium hydroxide 0.1 M . The aqueous layer was separated and freeze dried to give the title compound 0.05 g as a white solid, at 20 42.60 c, 1.1 H20 , v max KBr 1805, 1780, 1760 D l and 1610 cm , H DMSO d6 0.90 3H, t, J 8Hz, 10 CH3 , 2.00 2H, quintet, J 8Hz, 9 CH2 , 2.90 1H, d, J 17Hz 6ss CH , 3.40 1H, d, J 2.5Hz, J 17Hz, 6 CH , 4.40 lH, s, 3 CH , 4.40 1H, t, J 8Hz, 8 CH , and 5.50 lH, d, J 2.5Hz, 5 CH . Example 3Renzyl 9 vinyl 9 deoxyclavulanateVinylmagnesium bromide in pentane 5ml, 1.3M was added to a suspension of cuprous iodide 0.63g in tetrahydrofuran 20m1 at 780 under nitrogen. The mixture was a lowed to warm up to 0 0 over 15 minutes to give a fine brownish yellow suspension which was then cooled down to 780. A solution of benzyl 9 0 methoxymethlclavulanate 0. 36g in tetrahydrofuran 10ml was then added and the mixture was stirred at 78 under nitrogen for 2 hours. It was then quenched with acetic acid 0.5ml and allowed to come to room temperature. The mixture was then partitioned between brine and ethyl acetate. The organic extract was dried, evaporated to dryness and the residue was chromatographed over silica gel 12g . Elution of the column with petrol ethyl acetate 4 1 gave the title compound, alpha D20 32.9 c, 1.0 CHC13 , Vmax CHCl3 1795 cm 1 1740, and 1635 cm , bH CDC13 7.35 5H, m, ArH , 5.75 1H, m, cH cH2 , 5.67 lH,d,J 3Hz, 5 CH , 5.20 2H, ABq, J 12Hz, CH2PH , 5.05 1H, broad s, 3 CH , 4.90 5.02 2H, m, CH CH2 , 4.62 1H, broad t,J 7Hz, 8 CH , 3.46 1H, dd, J 18Hz, jl 3Hz, 6 alpha CH , 3.06 1H, d, J 18Hz, 6ss CH , and 2.82 2H, m, 9 CH . Example 4 2R,5R Z 3 butylidene 2 benzyloxycarbonyl 7 oxo 4 oxa azabicyclo 3.2.0 heptane A solution of ethyllithium in ether 7 ml of a 1.sun solution was added to a stirred suspension of cuprous iodide 0.95 gm in dry ether 10 ml cooled to 400C under nitrogen. The rate of addition was such that the temperature did not rise above 3O0C. When the addition was complete the mixture was maintained at 30 C for 4 hr and then cooled to 600C. A solution of benzyl 9 O dichloroacetylclavulanate 1 gm in ether was then added and the mixture stirred at 600C for 1 hr. The solution was then removed from the cooling bath and shaken well with ammonium chloride solution and filtered through Celite.The filtrate was extracted with ethyl acetate and the ethyl acetate solution was washed successively with water, sodium bicarbonate solution, water and brine. The solution was dried over magnesium sulphate and evaporated. The product was isolated by column chromatography of the residue using gradient elution Kieselgel 5 1 going to 2 1 petroleum ether ethyl acetate as eluent . 1 I R v max CHC13 1800, 1750, 1700 cm 1, N.M.R. d CDC13 0.84 3H, t, J 7 Hz , 1.1 1.55 2H, apparent sextet, J 7 Hz 2.03 2H, apparent q, J 7 Hz , 2.97 1H, d, J 17 Hz , 3.41 IH, dd, J 3 and 17 Hz , 4.55 1H, t, J 7 Hz , 5.0 1H, s , 5.17 2H, s , 5.60 1H, d, J 3 Hz 7.33 5H, s . Example 5Lithium 2R,5R Z 3 butylidene 7 oxo 4 oxa 1 aza bicyclo 3.2.0 heptane 2 carboxylate A solution of 2R,5R Z 3 butylidene 2 benzyloxycarbonyl 7 oxo 4 oxa 1 azabicyclo 3.2.0. heptane 0.177 gm in tetrahydrofuran 5 ml was hydrogenated over 10 palladium charcoal 50 mgs for 20 minutes.The solution was filtered through Celite and the filter cake washed with tetrahydrofuran. The solutior was evaporated to about 3 ml and treated with a soluticn of lithium carbonate 21.8 mgs in water 5 ml . The remaining tetrahydrofuran was evaporated and the aqueous solution was washed twice with ethyl acetate and filtered through Celite. The solution was evaporated to very low volume and the residue triturated with acetone. The crystalline solid was filtered off and dried under vacuum over phosphorus pentoxide. Yield 81 mgs. I.R. v max. KBr 1768, 1701, 1614 cm 1 N.M.R. 6 D20 0.78 3H, t, J 7 Hz 1.29 2H, apparent sextet, J 7 Hz 1.97 2H, apparent q, J 7 Hz , 2.95 1H, d, J 7 Hz 3.45 1H, dd, J 3 and 17 Hz , 4.64 1H, t, J 7 Hz , 5.59 1H, d, J 3Hz . Example 6 2R,5R Z 3 hexylidene 2 benzyloxycarbonyl 7 oxo 4oxa 1 azabicyclo 3.2.0 heptane A stirred suspension of cuprous iodide 0.95 gm in dry ether 10 ml was cooled in an ice bath and then a solution of butyllithium in cyclohexane 3.8 ml of 2.6N solution was added. The mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature for hr. The mixture was cooled in a dry ice acetone bath and a solution of benzyl 9 0 dichloroacetylclavulanate 0.8 gm in ether 4 ml was added in one portion. The solution was stirred at 780C for 1i hrand the n removed from the cooling bath. The solution was treated with saturate2 ammonium chloride solution and the mixture extracted three times with ethyl acetate.The ethyl acetate solution was washed successively with water, sodium bicarbonate solution, water and brine. The solution was dried over magnesium sulphate and evaporated. The product was isolated by column chromatography of the residue using gradient elution Kieselgel 4 1 going to 2 1 petroleum ether ethyl acetate . Yield, 0.074 gm. 1 I.R. v max. CHCl3 1805, 1750 and 1700 cmN.M.R. 6 CDC13 0.85 3H, t, J 6 Hz , 1.1 1.4 6H, m , 2.04 2H, q, J 6 Hz , 2.97 1H, d, J 17 Hz , 3.41 1H, dd, J 3 and 17 Hz , 4.54 7H, broad t,J 7 Hz , 5.00 1H, s , 5.17 2H, s , 5.61 1H, d,J 3 Hz 7.32 5H, s . Example 7Lithium 2R,5R Z 3 hexylidene 7 oxo 4 oxa 1 azabicyclc 3.2.0 heptane 2 carboxylate A solution of 2R,5R Z 3 hexylidene 2 benzyloxycarbonyl 7 oxo 4 oxa 1 azabicyclo t3.2.0 heptane 0.36 gm in tetrahydrofuran 10 ml was hydrogenated over 10 palladium charcoal 0.1 gm for 15 minutes.The solution was filtered through Celite and the filter cake washed with tetrahydrofuran. The tetrahydrofuran solution was evaporated to about 5 ml and diluted with water 5 ml . Lithium carbonate 40 mgs was added and when it had dissolved the remaining tetrahydrofuran was evaporated. The aqueous solution was washed twice with ethyl acetate and filtered through Celite. The solution was then evaporated almost to dryness and triturated with acetone. The solid was filtered off, washed with acetone and dried over phosphorus pentoxide under vacuum. Yield 0.176 mg. I.R. v max. KBr 1765, 1697 and 1612 cm 1. N.M.R. 6 D20 0.83 3HI t, 6 Hz , 1.1 1.5 6H, m , 1.9 2.2 2H, m , 2.93 1H, d, J 17 Hz ,3.51 1H, dd,J 3 and 17 Hz , 4.69 1H, t, J 7 Hz , 4.79 1H, s , 5.63 1H, d, J 3 Hz . Example 8 2R, 5R Z 3 2 phenyl ethylidene 2 benzyloxycarbonyl 7 oxo 4 oxa 1 azabicyclo 3.2.0 heptane A solution of phenyllithium in ether cyclohexane 10.4 ml of 1.9M was added to a suspension of cuprous iodide 1.9 gm in dry ether 30 ml stirred under nitrogen. The solution was stirred at room temperatul e for 40 minutes and then cooled to 780C. A solution of benzyl 9 0 dichloroacetylclavulanate 2 gm in ether 10 ml was then added. The mixture was stirred at 780C for lhr and then vigorously shaken with ammonium chloride solution. The solution was filtered throughCelite and the filtrate extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The ethyl acetate solution was washed successively with water, sodium bicarbonate solution, water and brine. The solution was dried over magnesium sulphate and evaporated. The product was isolated by column chromatography of the residue using gradient elution Kieselgel 5 1 going to 3 1 petroleum ether ethyl acetate . Yield 0.127 gm. I.R. v max. CHC13 1800, 1750 and 1695 cm 1. N.M.R. 6 CDC13 3.00 1H, d, J 17 Hz , 3.40 2H, d,J 7 Hz , 3.44 1H, dd, J 3 and 17 Hz , 4.79 1H, broad t, J 7 Hz , 5.07 1H, s 5.15 2H, s , 5.67 1H, d, J 3 Hz , 7.0 7.4 10H, m . Example 9Lithium 2R,5R Z 3 2 phenyl ethylidene 7 oxo 4 oxa 1 azabicyclo 3.2.03heptane 2 carboxylate A solution of 2R,5R Z 3 2 phenyl ethylidene 2 benzyloxycarbonyl 7 oxo 4 oxa 1 azabicyclo 3.2.0 heptane 0.127 gm in tetrahydrofuran 5 ml was hydrogenated over 10 palladium charcoal 30 mgs for 20 minutes. The solution was filtered through Celite and the filter cake washed with tetrahydrofuran. The solution was evaporated to about 2 ml and then diluted with water 2 ml . Lithium carbonate 13.4 mgs was then added and when solution was complete the remaining tetrahydrofuran was evaporated. The aqueous solution was washed twice with ethyl acetate and filtered through Celite. The solution was evaporated almost to dryness and the residue triturated with acetone ether. The crystalline solid was filtered off and dried under vacuum over phosphorus pentoxide. Yield 48 mgs. I.R. v max KBr 1765, 1697, 1610 cm . max.N.M.R. 6 D20 3.02 1H, d, J 17 Hz , 3.3 3.65 3H, m , 4.89 1H, s , 4.92 1H, t, J 7 Hz , 5.69 1H, d, J 3 Hz , 7.29 5H, s .