# Nitrato polyethers, and their use.

## Abstract
The invention concerns an organic nitrato compound of the general formula I X The compound can be used as additives to fuels, alcohols, combustible fluids or the like.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An organic nitrato compound of the general formula I EMI15.1 in whichRf is an organic residue containing 3 or more carbon atoms derived from a base polyhydroxy compound of formula R OH f by removal of OH, where f denotes the number of hydroxyl functions on the molecule One or more of X are nitrate groups ONO2 , the remainder being hydroxyl OH n is an integer between 1 and 100, and may vary in a particular compound where f m is greater than 1 OA is an oxyalkylene unit derived from ethylene oxide or propylene oxide m is an integer in the range 0 to f l f is an integer in the range 2 to 10, and is always equal to or less than the number of carbon atoms in the radical R. 2. A compound of the formula O2NO CH2CH2O x CyH2y OCH2CH2 z ONO2 where x 1 to 50 y 3 to 20 z 0 to 50. 3. A compound as claimed in Claim 2, said compound being O2NO CH2CH2O CHZCH2CH,ONO, O2NO CH2CH2O CH2CH2CH2 O CH2CH2 ONO2 O2NO CH2CH2O 2 CH2CH2CH2 CH2 O CH2CH2 ONO2 O2NO CH2CH2O CH CH3 CH CH3 OCH2CH2 ONO2, or O2NO CH2CH2O CH2 5 O CH2CH2 2 ONO2. 4. A compound of the formulaEMI16.1 where x 1 to 100 5. A compound as claimed in Claim 4, wherein the compound is O2NOCH2 2CH OCH2CH2ONO2 or O2NOCH2 2CH OCH2CH2 3ONO2. 6. A compound of the formulaEMI16.2 where x I to 30 y 0 to 30 z 0 to 30. 7. The compoundEMI16.3 8. A compound of the formulaEMI16.4 where x is 1 to 20 y is 0 to 20 z is 0 to 20 and R is hydrogen on C1 to C4 alkyl. 9. A compound of the formulaEMI17.1 where x 1 to 50 y 0 to 50. 10. A compound of the formulaEMI17.2 where w is o to 20 x is 0 to 20 y is 0 to 20 z is 0 to 20 provided w x y z 1 11. A compound of the formulaEMI17.3 where x 1 to 50 y 0 to 50. 12. The compoundEMI18.1 13. A compound of the formulaEMI18.2 where v 0 to 20 w 0 to 20 x 0 to 20 y 0 to 20 z 0 to 20 provided v w x y z 1. 14. A compound comprising the nitric acid ester of an adduct of a pentose monosaccharide with ethylene oxide, containing between 1 and 50 oxyethylene groups. 15. A compound comprising the nitric acid ester of an adduct of a hexose monosaccharide with ethylene oxide, containing between 1 and 50 oxyethylene groups. 16. A compound of the formulaEMI18.3 where w 1 to 25 x 0 to 25 y 0 to 25 z 0 to 25 17. A composition comprising a compound as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 16 and another substance which is compatible therewith. 18. A composition as claimed in Claim 17, wherein the other compatible substance is a fuel, an alcohol or a combustible fluid. 19. A process for the preparation of a compound as claimed in Claim 1, which comprises reacting a compound of general Formula I, in which Rf, n, OA, m and n have the meanings defined in Claim 1, and at least some of the groups x are hydroxyl the remainder, if any, being nitrate groups with nitric acid. 20. A method of improving the combustion of fuels, propellants or explosives, which comprises admixing therewith from 0.01 to 50 by weight of a compound as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 16, and combusting and or detonating the mixture. 21. A method of running an engine wh ich comprises injecting into the engine, either separately or in combination, a nitrato compound as claimed in any ofClaims 1 to 16 and a combustible fuel. 22. A fuel, for compression ignition engines, said fuel comprising from 0.01 to 10 by weight of a compound of any of Claims 1 to 16 in admixture with a combustible fluid. 23. A fuel as claimed in Claim 22, wherein the combustible fluid comprises one or more of methanol, ethanol, a C3 to C20 alcohol or a low cetane hydrocarbon.

## Description
THIS INVENTION relates to novel organic nitrato compounds, processes for their preparation, and their use. The present invention provides an organic nitrato compound of the general formula I EMI1.1 in whichRf is an organic residue containing 3 or more carbon atoms derived from a base polyhydroxy compound of formula R OH f by removal of OH, where f denotes the number of hydroxyl functions on the molecule One or more of X are nitrate groups ONO2 , the remainder being hydroxyl OH n is an integer between 1 and 100, and may vary in a particular compound where f m is greater than 1 OA is an oxyalkylene unit derived from ethylene oxide or propylene oxide m is an integer in the range 0 to f l f is an integer in the range 2 to 10, and is always equal to or less than the number of carbon atoms in the radical R. The compounds of the above general formula I are nitric acid esters of alkylene and polyalkylene glycol ethers of polyols. The novel compounds provided by the invention may for example be used as ignition improvers for compression ignition fuels, as anti corrosion agents, as anti knock agents for spark ignition fuels, as components of fuel, propellant and explosive compositions, and the like. They are particularly useful as ignition improvers for enabling non petroleum based fuels to be used for compression ignition engines. The invention also provides a process for the preparation of the organic nitrato compounds of the general formula I above. The organic nitrato compounds can be prepared by reacting a polyhydroxy compound of general formula I , in which at least some of the groupsX are hydroxyl the remainder, if any, being nitrate groups with nitric acid, preferably under dehydrating conditions. The polyhydroxy compounds of formula I in which all X are hydroxyl, may be prepared by reaction of ethylene oxide or propylene oxide with a base polyhydroxy compound of formula R OH f. The reactions of ethylene oxide and propylene oxide with hydroxy compounds generally requires elevated temperatures, pressures above atmospheric, and the presence of catalysts. Selective addition of the alkylene oxide to the base polyhydroxy compound R OH f may be achieved by adjustment of reaction conditions or by chemically blocking one or more hydroxyl groups. Under mild reaction conditions, the alkylene oxide units can be added only to the most reactive hydroxyl groups, thus forming a molecule with alkylene oxide units or chains attached to these groups, the less reactive hydroxyl groups remaining unreacted. By adjusting reaction stoichiometry such that there are less than f alkylene oxide molecules per base polyhydroxy molecule, addition of single alkylene oxide units to the most reactive hydroxyl groups can be achieved. By chemically blocking the most reactive hydroxyl groups on the base polyhydroxy molecule, for example using ester groups, the alkylene oxide can be added to the less reactive ie unblocked hydroxyl groups.The blocked hydroxyls can then be regenerated, for example by hydrolysis of the ester groups. Other methods of preparation of the compounds of formula I, in which all X are hydroxyl, include the reaction of ethylene glycol or blocked ethylene glycols such as chloroethanol, ethylene glycol monoacetate and 2tetrahydropyranoxyethanol with epoxides, followed by removal of blocking groups, if any. Nitration can then be effected to provide the compounds of the invention, of general formula I . The nitration with nitric acid conveniently may be carried out under dehydrating conditions, eg in the presence of sulphuric acid or acetic anhydride, preferably at temperatures where minimal oxidation takes place, eg at temperatures from about 10 C to about 300C. Generally, a mixture of compounds of general formula I is formed.When carrying out the nitration, the excess acidity may subsequently be neutralised by means of an alkali. The organic nitrato compounds of general formula I contain one or more nitrato groups, but preferably more than 90 of the hydroxyl groups are nitrated. The integer n varies from 1 to 100 and more usually is from 1 to 10, particularly from 1 to 5, and may vary in a molecule where f m is greater than 1. In the above general formula, R is an organic radical derived from a base polyhydroxy compound of formula R OH f, containing three or more carbon atoms, and may optionally also contain non hydroxyl oxygen. Examples of base polyhydroxy compounds R OH f are a Sugars, such as i the tetroses, for example erithrose, ii the pentoses, for example xylose, iii the hexoses, for example sorbose, etc., iv disaccharides, for example sucrose. b Polyhydroxy compounds which contain one hydroxyl group per carbon atom, such as i glycerol, ii the tetritols, eg erithritol, iii the pentitols, eg xylitol, iv the hexitols, eg sorbitol, etc. c Polyhydroxy alkanes which contain less than one hydroxyl group per carbon atom, such as i trihydroxyalkanes containing 4 or more C atoms, eg trimethylol ethane, trimethylol propane, 1,2,5 trihydroxy pentane, ii tetrahydroxyalkanes containing 5 or more C atoms, eg pentaerithritol. d Polyhydroxy compounds containing ether linkages, eg i the polyglycerolsEMI5.1 ii dipentaerithritol HOCH2 3C CH2OCH2 C CH2OH 3 iii compounds of the typeEMI5.2 e Diols such as propane 1,3 diol, butane 1,4 diol, butane 2,3 diol, cyclohexane 1,4 diol, etc.Some Examples of compounds of the invention of Formula I are 1. O2NO CH2CH2O CyH2y OCH2CH2 z ONO2. where x 1 to 50 y 3 to 20 z 0 to 50 eg 1.1 O2NO CH 2N0 CH2CH2O CH2CH2CH2ONO2 1.2 02NO CH2CH20 CH2CH2CH2 O CH2CH2 ON02 1.3 02N0 CH2CH2O 2 CH2CH2CH2 CH2 O CH2CH2 0N02 1.4 O2NO CH2CH2O CH CH3 CH CH3 OCH2CH2 ONO2, or 1.5 O2NO CH2CH2O CH2 5 O CH2CH2 2 ONO2.EMI5.3 where x 1 to 100 eg 2.1 O2NOCH2 2CH OCH2CH2ONO2 or 2.2 O2NOCH2 2CH OCH2CH2 3ONO2.EMI6.1 where x 1 to 30 y 0 to 30 z 0 to 30EMI6.2 4 A compound of the formulaEMI6.3 where x is 1 to 20 y is 0 to 20 z.is 0 to 20 and R is hydrogen or C1 to C4 alkyl.EMI6.4 where x 1 to 50 y 0 to 50.6 A compound of the formulaEMI7.1 where w is 0 to 20 x is 0 to 20 y is 0 to 20 z is 0 to 20 provided w x y z 1.EMI7.2 where x 1 to 50 y 0 to 50 egEMI7.3 8 Compounds similar to Examples 5, 6 and 7, but based on pentitols and hexitols. EMI8.1 where v 0 to 20 w 0 to 20 x 0 to 20 y 0 to 20 z 0 to 20 provided v w x y z 1.10 A compound comprising the nitric acid ester of an adduct of a pentose monosaccharide with ethylene oxide, containing between 1 and 50 oxyethylene groups.11 A compound comprising the nitric acid ester of an adduct of the hexose monosaccharide with ethylene oxide, containing between I and 50 oxyethylene groups.12 . Pentaerithritol based compounds EMI8.2 where w 1 to 25 x 0 to 25 y 0 to 25 z 0 to 25. The invention also provides compositions containing an organic nitrato compound of formula I and another substance compatible therewith. Such compositions may contain, as the other substance, a fuel, whether of mineral origin or vegetable origin eg diesel fuels, petroleum distillates, a product obtained from the conversion of coal to coal liquids, vegetable oils, and the like , an alcohol eg methanol, ethanol and the like , a combustible fluid or another suitable organic or inorganic material. The compositions may conveniently contain from about 0,01 to 50 by weight of a compound of general formula I . Some of these compositions may be used as fuels. The invention also provides a fuel for compression ignition engines, said fuel comprising from 0,01 to 10 by weight of a compound of formula I in admixture with a combustible fluid. The combustible fluid present in the fuel may be one or more of methanol, ethanol, a C2 to C10 alcohol or a low cetane hydrocarbon, ie a hydrocarbon which, in the absence of a compound of the invention, cannot be used as a fuel in a compression ognition engine, but when mixed with a compound of the invention, can be used as such a fuel. As indicated above, the compounds of general formula I may be a mixture. Similarly, any material admixed therewith may also be a mixture. When an alkanol is present, there may be one or more alkanols having from 1 to 20 carbon atoms each. The invention also provides a method of improving the combustion of fuels, propellants or explosives, which comprises admixing therewith 0,01 to 50 by weight of a nitrato compound of general formula I , and combusting and or detonating the resultant mixture. The invention further provides a method of running an engine, which comprises injecting into the engine, either separately or in combination, a nitrato compound of the general formula I and a combustible fuel. Conveniently, the combustible fuel and the organic nitrato compound may be injected into the engine together. The invention is illustrated in non limiting manner by reference to the following Examples EXAMPLE 1 0,2 moles of a mixture of the two isomeric compounds obtained from the addition of two moles of ethylene oxide to one mole of glycerol ie 4,7 dioxanonane 1,2,9 triol and 3,7 dioxanonone 1,5,9 triol was added to 120 ml of 28 HNO3 in acetic anhydride at OOC over one hour. The reaction mixture was quenched in 300 ml water, the organic layer separated, neutralised with a dilute aqueous ammonia, washed with water, and dried to yield a fully nitrated product A in 85 yield. Product A comprises a mixture of Al and A2 AlEMI10.1 A2EMI10.2 The infra red spectrum and liquid chromatography scans of the product were consistent with that expected of a mixture of Al and A2.EXAMPLE 2A compound identical to one obtained from the addition of one mole of ethylene oxide to one mole of glycerol ie 4oxahexane 1,2,6 troll was obtained by slowly adding 1 mole of epichlorohydrin to 3 moles of ethylene glycol 0 containing 0,2 BF3 etherate at 90 C, and hydrolysing the resultant adduct with 5 aqueous sodium hydroxide at reflux. Water and excess ethylene glycol were removed from the neutralised mixture by distillation, and inorganic salts by filtration. 0,2 moles of the product was nitrated by the method of Example 1 to give a productB in 84 yield.B isEMI11.1 The IR spectrum and LC scan of product B were consistent with this structure.EXAMPLE 3Fuels comprising 3,5 of the test compound, 18 castor oil and 95,5 methanol were used to operate an instrumented single cylinder air cooled direct injection diesel engine of 15,7 1 compression ratio driving a 230V 15A generator.The test compounds were i product A from Example 1 and ii product B from Examples 2. A conventional 45 cetane hydrocarbon diesel fuel was used for comparison.In all cases the engine started easily from cold, idled smoothly, and ran normally under all load conditions. The display of cylinder pressure indicated that the combustion characteristics were satisfactory for normal operation of the engine.EXAMPLE 4A mixture of compounds obtained from the addition of 4 moles of ethylene oxide to 1 mole of glycerol was nitrated by the method of Example 1, using 1,5 moles HNO3 and 2,0 moles acetic anhydride per equivalent of hydroxyl, to form a mixture of products C1 of formula C EMI12.1 in which the mean value of x y z is 4. EXAMPLE 5The procedure of Example 4 was repeated using a mixture of compounds obtained from the addition of 6 moles of ethylene oxide to 1 mole of glycerol, to form a mixture of products C2, of formula C in which the mean value of x y z is 6.EXAMPLE 6Two compounds, obtained from the addition of 4 and 6 moles respectively, of ethylene oxide to 1 mole of pentaerithritol, was nitrated according to the method of Example 4, to yield products D1 and D2 respectively, of formulaEMI12.2 The mean value of w x y z was 4 for product D1 and 6 for product D2.EXAMPLE 7A compound, obtained from the addition of 6 moles of ethylene oxide to 1 mole of xylitol, was nitrated by the method of Example 4 to yield a product E of formulaEMI12.3 in which the mean value of v w x y z was 6 EXAMPLE 8The ability of the products of Examples 4, 5, 6 and 7 that is products C1, C2, D1, D2 and E, to improve the compression ignition characteristics of fuels was demonstrated by preparing fuels comprising 3,5 by volume of product, 1 by volume castor oil, as lubricant and 95,5 methanol.Whereas methanol, alone or with castor oil, is a very poor compression ignition fuel, and will not operate a compression ignition engine, the five prepared fuels containing products C1, C2, D1, D2 and E operated the engine of Example 3 in a satisfactory manner. Using these prepared fuels, the engine started easily from cold, idled smoothly, and ran normally under all load conditions. The variation of cylinder pressure with crank angle demonstrated that the ignition and combustion characteristics were similar to that obtained when the engine was operated on normal hydrocarbon diesel fuel.EXAMPLE 9A matrix of 28 fuels was prepared of composition 3,5 ignition improving material of the invention 1 castor oil for lubrication purposes 95,5 combustible fluid which, alone or with castor oil, will not operate a compression ignition engine.The ignition improving materials were a Product A of Example 1 b Product B of Example 2 c Product C1 of Example 4 d Product C2 of Example 5 e Product D1 of Example 6 f product D2 of Example 6 g Product E of Example 7 The combustible fluids were i Ethanol ii 40 methanol, 40 ethanol, 20 C3 and higher alcohols iii 50 methanol, 50 gasoline of boiling range 80 1800C iv Gasoline of boiling range 80 1800CIn all cases, the fuel compositions operated the compression ignition engine of Example 3 in a satisfactory manner, to give performance similar to that obtained with 45 cetane hydrocarbon diesel fuel. EXAMPLE 10The products A,B,Cl,C2,Dl,D2 and E were obtained from the respective starting materials specified in Examples 1, 2, 4, 5, 6 and 7 by reacting these hydroxylic starting materials, with nitric acid in the presence of sulphuric acid. In all cases, 2 moles of 98 HNO3 and 0,75 moles 98 HNO3 were used per mole of hydroxyl, on a 0,2 mole scale. A nitrating acid was prepared by mixing the nitric and sulphuric acids, and the hydroxylic starting material added to this whilst maintaining the temperature atQ 100C. The reacted mixture was dumped into three times it s volume of iced water, and the product separated and neutralised. Products were shown to be the same as those obtained from nitric acid acetic anhydride nitration by infra red spectroscopy and liquid chromatography.