# Bisisoquinolinium compound, pharmaceutical compositions and synthesis.

## Abstract
Intermediate duration muscle relaxants of formula I

## Claims
Claims 1. A compound of formula I EMI13.1 wherein Y is lower alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, n is 3 to 7 and X is an anion. 2. A compound according to claim 1 wherein the trimethoxybenzyl group at the 1 position and the substituted propyl of the group CH2 30CO CH2 nOCO CH2 3 at the 2 position are in a trans relationship to each other in each of the nitrogen containing rings. 3. A compound mixture comprising the mixture of the racemic dl pair and the meso isomer of a compound of formula I as defined in claim 1. 4. A compound according to any of claims 1 to 3 wherein Y is methyl. 5. A compound according to any of claims 1 to 4 wherein n is 3. 6. A compound selected from trans, trans 2,2t trimethylenebis carbonyloxytrimethylene bis 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro 6,7,8 trimethoxy 2 methyl 1 3,4,5 trimethoxybenzyl isoquinolinium dichlor ide trans, trans 2,2 hexamethylenebis carbonyl oxytrimethylene bis 1 ,2,3,4 tetrahydro 6,7,8 trimethoxy 2 methyl 1 3,4,5 trimethoxybenzyl isoquinolinium chloride tosylate trans, trans 2,2 heptamethylenebis carbonyl oxytrimethylene bis 1 ,2,3,4 tetrahydro 6,7,8 trimethoxy 2 methyl 1 3,4,5 trimethoxybenzyl i soquinolinium tosylate and trans, trans 2,2 octamethylenebis carbonyloxy trimethylene bis 1,2,3,4 tetrahydr o 6,7,8,tri methoxy 2 methyl 1 3 ,4 ,5 trimethoxybenzyl iso quinolinium dichloride. 7. A method for the preparation of a compound according to any of claims 1 to 6 which method comprises coupling an N alkyl N 3 hydroxypropyl 1,2,3, tetrahydro 6,7,8 trimethoxy 1 3,4,5 trimethoxybenzyl isoquinolinium salt with an appropriate dicarboxylic acid or a reactive derivative thereof. 8. A pharmaceutical formulation which comprises a compound according to any of claims 1 to 6 in association with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier therefor. 9. A formulation according to claim 8 in a form suitable for intravenous or intramuscular administration. 10. A compound according to any of claims 1 to 6 for use as a neuromuscular blocking agent.

## Description
QUARTERNARY AMMONIUM COMPOUND, PHAPJ4ACEUTICAL COMPOSITIONS AND SYNTHESIS The present invention relates to isoquinoline derivatives, their preparation, formulations thereof and their use in medicine. In particular, this invention relates to novel isoquinoline derivatives for use as neuromuscular blocking agents. In anaesthesia, neuromuscular blocking agents are used to provide skeletal muscle relaxation during surgery and during intubation of the trachea hence, they are sometimes known as muscle relaxants . In general, there are two types of neuromuscular blocking agents in use non depolarising and depolarising. The non depolarising agents include d tubocurarine, pancuronium, gallamine, diallyltoxiferine and toxiferine.The depolarising agents include succinylcholine and decamethonium. All of the conventional non depolarising agents when used for producing skeletal muscle relaxation in surgery have a long duration of action, e.g., 60 to 180 minutes in man. The conventional depolarising agents, on the other hand, provide muscle relaxation with a duration of action shorter than that of the non depolarising agents.For example, succinylcholine provides a short duration of action of about 5 to 15 minutes whereas decamethonium provides about 20 . to 40 minutes duration of muscle relaxation in man, Each non depolarising agent has inherent side effects. For example, gallamine and pancuronium may cause tachycardia, and d tubocurarine and diallyltoxiferine may cause hypotension. While these drugs can be pharmacologically antagonised with anticholinesterase agents, this obviously necessitates the administration of a second drug which itself may have its own side effects, e.g., bradycardia, gut spasm and bronchorrhea. Thus, to overcome the aforementioned side effects of the anticholinesterase agents, a third drug, an anticholinergic drug, e.g., atropine, must also be given. Therefore, attempts have been made to find new compounds which act as non depolarising neuromuscular blocking agents and which have different durations of action but which do not exhibit the side effects of such agents currently in use. Thus, short acting neuromuscular blocking agents are disclosed in Belgian patent specification No. 869 415 intermediate duration neuromuscular blocking agents are disclosed in European patent specification No. 10 119 and both short and intermediate duration neuromuscular blocking agents are disclosed in British patent specification No. 2061929. Each of these compounds are isoquinoline derivatives of general formula A EMI2.1 where B and C are each substituted isoquinolines. We have now surprisingly found that potent neuromuscular blocking agents with an intermediateduration of action which is reversible using conventional anti chol inesterase agents such as neostigmine and edrophonium and which do not exhibit the side effects of currently used agents can be prepared which do not have the phenyl linking group of the compounds of formula A . Accordingly, this invention provides a compound of formula I EMI3.1 wherein Y is lower alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms n is 3 to 7 and X is an anion. Preferably, the trimethoxybenzyl group at the 1 position and the CH2 3 also known as substituted propyl of the group CH2 30C0 CH2 nOCO CH2 3 at the 2 position are in a trans relationship relative to each other in each of the nitrogen containing rings. Y is therefore selected from methyl, ethyl, propyl and butyl. The preferred compounds are those wherein Y is methyl. Preferably, n is 3. X is preferably a pharmaceutically acceptable anion. Since the activity of the compounds of the invention resides in the di cation, the nature of the anion X is relatively unimportant. Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable anions include iodide, mesylate, tosylate, bromide, chloride, sulphate, phosphate, hydrogen phosphate, acetate, benzenesulphonate, succinate, maleate, naphthalenesulphonate and propionate. Preferred anions are chloride and tosylate thus compounds of formula I in the form of the dichloride, ditosylate and chloride tosylate are favoured. The compounds of this invention are preferably provided as an approximately 1 1 mixture of the racemic dl pair and the meso isomer. It is preferred that the compounds of the invention be provided in a form where the ratio of the trans, trans compound of the invention to the total of any corresponding cis, cia and cis, trans compounds present as impurities is at least 96 4. In another aspect, the present invention provides a compound of formula I for use as a neuromuscular blocking agent for example, in conjunction with surgery or for intubation of the trachea by conventional parenteral administration, e.g., intramuscular or intravenous administration in solution. The compounds of formula I may be administered to mammals such as monkeys, man humans and other mammals to achieve a neuromuscular block. The dosage for each type of mammal will vary because of the peculiarities of the species. However, a suitable intravenous amount or dose of the compounds of formula I to obtain paralysis in mammals is 0.008 to 0.2 mg kg of body weight, preferably 0.03 to 0.1 mg kg of body weight, the above doses being based on the weight of the di cation which is the active ingredient. The compounds of this invention are, therefore, at least as potent as or more potent than the agents most widely used clinically pancuronium 0.060.08 mg kg, d tubocurarine 0.4 0.6 mg kg . The dose for intramuscular administration is two to four times the intravenous dose. Preferably, the compound of formula I is administered in the form of a pharmaceutical formulation.Therefore, in a further aspect, the present invention provides a pharmaceutical formulation which comprises a compound of formula I in association with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier therefor. The compounds may be presented in a pharmaceutical formulation for parenteral administration. The formulation may be an aqueous or non aqueous solution or emulsion in a pharmaceutically acceptable liquid or mixture of liquids, which may contain an excipient selected from bacteristatic agents, antioxidants, buffers, thickening agents, suspending agents or other pharmaceutically acceptable additives. Such formulations are normally presented in unit dose forms such as ampoules or disposable injection devices, or in multidose forms such as a bottle from which the approriate dose may be withdrawn all such formulations should be sterile. The compounds of this invention may be presented as a powder, e.g., as a unit dose in a sealed ampoule or vial to which sterile water or another pharmaceutically acceptable sterile liquid vehicle may be added, preferably by aseptic techniques. A suitable unit dose to obtain a neuromuscular block for adult humans is about 2 to 15 mg and most preferably 5 to 10 mg. Thus, a suitable pharmaceutical parenteral preparation for administration to humans will preferably contain 2 to 15 mg of a compound of formula I in solution or multiples thereof for multidose vials. A simple and preferred formulation is a solution of a compound of formula I in water which may be prepared by simply dissolving the compound in pyrogen free water, with or without a preservative, and sterilising the solution or by dissolving the sterile compound in pyrogen free, sterile water under aseptic conditions. The compounds of formula I may also be administered as an infusion of a dextrose solution or a saline solution, e.g., Ringer s solution The compounds may also be administered in other solvents such as alcohol, polyethylene glycol and dimethylsulphoxide. The compounds of formula I may also be administered intramuscularly as a suspension or solution. Therefore, in another aspect, the present invention provides a method for producing a neuromuscular block in a mammal which method comprises the administration to said mammal of an effective, non toxic, neuromuscular blocking amount of a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutical formulation thereof. A preferred method of producing such a blockade in mammals is by intravenously injecting a dose of 0.008 to 0.2 mg kg in the mammal. The compounds of this invention if desired may be administered in conjunction with a depolarising agent such as those listed above. In a still further aspect, the present invention provides a method for the preparation of a compound of formula I which method comprises coupling an 3 alkyl N 3 hydroxypropyl 1 ,2,3,4, tetrahydro 6,7,8 trimethoxy 1 3,4,5 trimethoxybenzyl isoquinolium salt with an appropriate dicarboxylic acid or a reactive derivative thereof such as the dicarboxylic acid anhydride or diacid chloride. As stated above, preferably the compound of formula I is prepared substantially as the trans, trans isomer, in which case the above intermediate is preferably substantially Inn N alkyl 3 hydroxypropyl 1 ,2,3,4, tetrahydro s,7,8 trimethoxy 1 3,4,5 trimethoxybenzyl is oquinolium salt. Also as stated above, preferably the compound of formula I is prepared as an approximately 1 1 mixture of the racemic dl pair and the meso isomer. However, also included in this invention is the preparation of the compounds of formula I when in the form of one of the aforesaid isomers substantially free of the other isomers, and mixtures of one of the isomers with one or both of the other isomers. Other methods of preparing the eis trans mixtures are well known in the art. The present invention will now be illustrated by the following Examples in which all temperatures are in degrees Centrigrade.Description 1 Mescaline and 3,4,5 trimethoxyphenylacetic acid were reacted in xylene to give the corresponding amide which was cyclised to the corresponding dihydroisoquinoline via the Bischler Napieralski reaction followed by reduction and reductive methylation to give 5178 dimethoxylaud anosine mp 174176o. Description 2 51,8 dimethylaudanosine prepared as in Description 1 27.2 g and 3 iodopropanol 27.2 g were refluxed in dry acetone 150 ml for 21 hours. The solvent was evaporated under vacuum and the unreacted 3 iodopropanol was extracted with diethyl ether 100 ml . The ether was decanted and the residue was dissolved in hot ethyl alcohol 300 ml and cooled at 5 for 16 hours to yield 29.2 g of 9 1 mixture of the trans cis quaternary iodides as indicat ed by high performance liquid chromatography HPLC . The mixture was recrystallised twice from ethyl alcohol to give 24.4 g of trans E 3 hydroxypropyl 5 ,8 dimethoxylaudanosinium iodide 98 trans by HPLC .The iodide salt was converted to the chloride salt by passing its methanolic solution through a column packed with 75 g of Dowex 1 X8 Trade Name ion exchange resin. The solvent was evaporated under vacuum and acetone 100 ml was added to give 18.1 g of trans N 3 hydroxypropyl 5 ,8dimethoxylaudanosinium chloride 100 trans by HPLC . The yield was 67 overall. Calculated for C26H38N07Cl.2H20 C, 56.98 H, 7.72 N, 2.56 Cl, 6.47. Found C, 56.97 H, 7.74 N, 2.52 Cl, 6.47.Example 1 Trans N 3 hydroxypropyl 5 t X8 dimethoxylaudanosinium chloride prepared as in Description 2 99 trans byHPLC, 2 g was suspended in methylene chloride 50 ml and glutarylchloride 0.31 g was added. The mixture was heated at reflux for 210 minutes. The solvent was removed under vacuum to give an amorphous solid which was dissolved in chloroform 100 ml and washed with 5 aqueous sodium chloride solution 5 x 40 ml to remove unreacted quaternary salt. The chloroform layer was dried and evaporated under vacuum.The residual amorphous solid was dissolved in water and lyophilised to give 0.99 g of trans, trans 2,2 trimethylenebis carbonyloxytrimethy lene bis 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro 6,7,8 trimethoxy 2 methyl 1 3,4,5 trimethoxybenzyl isoquinolinium dichloride which was assayed by high performance liquid chromatography HPLC as 98.4 trans diester, and 1.6 cis tra s diester. Calculated for C57HgON2016Cl24H20 C, 57.42 H, 7.44 N, 2.35 Cl, 5.95. Found C, 57.44 H, 7.45 N, 2.35 Cl, 5.92.Example 2 Trans N 3 hydroxypropyl 5 ,8 dimethoxylaudanosinium chloride 99 trans by HPLC, 2 g , suberic acid 0.3 g and p toluenesulphonic acid monohydrate 1.05 g were refluxed in 1,2 dichloroethane 100 ml for 42 hours while water was azeotropically removed. The solvent was removed under vacuum to give an amorphous solid which was dissolved in chloroform 50 ml and washed with 5 aqueous sodium chloride solution 10 x 100 ml to remove unreacted quaternary salt. The chloroform layer was evaporated under vacuum and the halfester impurity was substantially removed by trituration with acetone. Residual solvent was removed under vacuum and the resulting amorphous solid was dissolved in water and lyophilised to give 0.5 g of trans, trans 2,2 hexa methylenebis carbonyloxytrimethylene bis 1,2,3,4 tetra hydro 6,7,8 trimethoxy 2 methyl 1 3,4,5 trimethoxybenzy l isoquinolinium chloride tosylate which was assayed by high performance liquid chromatography HPLC as 96.9 trans diester, and 3.1 halfester. Calculated for C60H86N2016 1 4 C7H703S 7 4 Cl 4.5 H20 C, 58.07 H, 7.64 N, 2.19 S, 0.63 Cl, 4.86.Found C, 57.99 H, 7.70 N, 2.09 S, 0.41 Cl, 4.56. Examle 3 Trans X 3 hydroxypropyl 5 ,8 dimethoxylaudanosinium chloride 97 trans by HPLC, 2 g , azelaic acid 0.32 g and p toluenesulphonic acid monohydrate 1.07 g were refluxed in 1 ,2 dichloroethane 100 100 ml for 44 hours while water was azeotropically removed. The solvent was removed under vacuum to give an amorphous solid which was dissolved in chloroform 100 ml and washed with 1S aqueous sodium chloride solution 5 x 50 ml to remove unreacted quaternary salt. The chloroform layer was evaporated under vacuum and the halfester impurity was substantially removed by trituration with methyl ethyl ketone.Residual solvent was removed under vacuum and the resulting amorphous solid was dissolved in methanol and lyophilised to give 1.8 g of trans, trans 2,21 hepta methylenebis carbonyloxytrimethylene bis 1,2,3,4 tetra hydro 6,7,8 trimethoxy 2 methyl 1 3,4,5 trimethoxybenzy l isoquinolinium tosylate which was assayed by high performance liquid chromatography HPLC as 87.9 trans diester, 2.7 cis trans diester and 8.4 halfester. Calculated for C61H88N2016.2C7H7S03.4H20 C, 59.27 H, 7.30 N, 1.84 S, 4.22. Found C, 59.10 H, 7.40 N, 1.84 S, 3.83 Cl, 0.00.Example 4 Trans N 3 hydroxypropyl 518 dimethoxylaudanosinium chloride 97 trans by HPLC, 2 g was suspended in 1,2dichloroethane 60 ml at 700C. Sebacic acid chloride 0.42 g was added and the mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 17 hours. The solvent was removed under vacuum to give an amorphous solid which was dissolved in chloroform 100 ml and washed with water 2 x 50 ml to remove unreacted quaternary salt. The chloroform layer was dried and evaporated under vacuum to give an amorphous solid. The halfester impurity was removed by washing with hot acetone.Residual solvent was evaporated under vacuum and the resulting amorphous solid was dissolved in methanol, filtered and evaporated under high vacuum to give 1.1 g of trans, trans 2,2 octamethylene bis carbonyloxytrimethylene bis 1 ,2,3,4 tetrahydro 6,7, 8 trimethoxy 2 methyl 1 3,4,5 trimethoxybenzyl isoquino linium dichloride which was assayed by high performance liquid chromatography HPLC as 95.8 trans diester, 3.1 eis trans diester and 4.2 hal fester. Calculated for C62HgoN2016Cl24H20 C, 59.00 H, 7.82 N, 2.22 Cl, 5.55. Found C, 58.98 H, 7.86 N, 2.22 Cl, 5.60. ExamieS Trans, trans 2,2 trans 2,2 trimethylenebis carbonyloxytri methylene bis 1 ,2,3,4 tetrahydro 6,7,8 trimethoxy2met hyl 1 3,4,5 trimethoxybenzyl isoquinolinium dichloride prepared as in Example 3 was examined by intravenous administration to cats and Rhesus monkeys, maintained by artificial ventilation and prepared for recording the isometric twitch of the tibialis anterior muscle in response to stimulation of peroneal nerve. The results are shown in the following table. Cat Rhesus MonkeyNo. of Animals ED95 Duration No.of Animals EDgs Duration mg kg Minutes mg kg Minutes 2 0.03 25 4 0 .05 0.05 The time from injection to 95 recovery. This translates to about 50 minutes in man.