# Apparatus and method for lubricating strand material.

## Abstract
The invention relates to an apparatus and method for applying material, such as lubricant, to a strand S , such as textile yarn or thread, as the strand is advanced at variable velocities. The strand S is engaged by a device 15 which generates a signal indicative of strand velocity. The strand S is also engaged by an applicator 16 which applies the material to the strand, the amounts of material applied being controllably varied in response to the strand velocity signal led by the device 15 .

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An apparatus for applying material such as lubricant to strand material such as textile yarn as the strand material is advanced along a predetermined path 12 , the apparatus comprising is S means or engaging strand materiav advancing along the path and for generating a signal indicative of strand velocity, 16 material applying means disposed adjacent the path for applying controllably variable amounts of material s such as lubricant to strand material advancing therealong, and control means operatively connected to said 15 velocity signaling means and to said material applying means for responding to signals indicative of strand velocity and for controllably varying the amounts of material such as lubricant applied to strand material moving along the path in response to such signals indicative of strand velocity. 2. An apparatus according to Claim 1 wherein said is 17 velocity signaling means comprises means for imposing tension or the engaged strand material S . 3. An apparatus according to one of Claim 1 or Claim 2 wherein said material applying means 2 comprises 18 lubrication roll means mounted adjacent the path for rotation and for engaging strand material and transferring lubricant thereto, and further wherein said 20 control means comprises drive means operatively connected to said roll meaiis Lor driving said roll means in rotation at a speed correlated to indicated strand velocity. 4. An apparatus according to Claim 3 further comprising lubricant reservoir means mounted adjacent said roll means for retaining a body of lubricant through which said roll means rotates. 5. An apparatus according to Claim 3 wherein said roll roll means has a chevron pattern of grooves in a circumferential face thereof for enhancing lubrication application. 6. An apparatus according to one of Claim 1 or Claim 2 further comprising package drive meant1 f or advancing s strand material along the predetermined path, and further wherein said control means is operatively 11 connected to said package drive means for controllably interrupting continued advancement of the strand 12 material along the predetermined path upon occurrence of a predetermined event. 7. An apparatus according to Claim 6 wherein said control means is responsive to signals indicative of strand velocity for determining length of strand material and further wherein said control means comprises length limit means for interrupting continued advancement of strand material along the path upon advancement of a predetermined length of material. 16 8. An applicator for applying material to a strand S moving adjacent the applicator and comprising roll means 18 mounted for rotation and having a chevron grooved circumferential face adapted for engaging strand 20 material, drive means operatively connected with said roll means for driving said roll means in rotation, and means for applying material to said face for transfer thereby to strand material engaged by said roll means. 9. A method of applying material such as lubricant to s strand material such as textile yarn as the strand material is advanced in an indeterminate length and 12 along a predetermined paths, the method comprising the s steps of engaging strand material advancing along the 12 15 path while generating a signal indicative of the velocity of movement of the strand along the path, 16 applying controllably variable amounts of material such as lubricant to the strand material as the strand material advances along the path, and varying the amounts of material applied in response to the signals indicative of strand velocity. 10. A method according to Claim 9 further comprising the step of imposing an adjustably varied tensiongon the engaged advancing strand material. 11. A method according to one of Claim 9 or Claim 10 wherein the applying of material comprises engaging the 18 strand material with an applicator roll mounted adjacent the path or rotation and transferring material 20 therefrom, and further comprises driving the roll in rotation at a speed correlated to indicated strand velocity. 12. A method according to Claim 11 further comprising 19 rotating the roll through a reservoir mounted adjacent the roll for retaining a body of material such as lubricant to be applied. 13. A method according to one of Claim 9 or Claim 10 further comprising controllably interrupting continued advancement of the strand material along the predetermined path upon occurrence of a predetermined condition. 14. A method according to Claim 13 further comprising detecting the advancement of a predetermined length of advancing strand material as being the occurrence of a predetermined condition and interrupting continued advancement of strand material along the path in response to such detecting.

## Description
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR LUBRICATING STRAND MATERIAL Field and Background of Invention This invention relates to applying materials to strand material, such as lubricating textile yarn, as the strand material is advanced in an indeterminate length and along a predetermined path. Many processes of handling strand materials in indeterminate lengths, such as textile yarns, are involved with the strand materials being treated by application of some material, such as a lubricant.Heretofore, many arrangements have been proposed for winders and other apparatus by which materials such as lubricants are applied to strand materials. In many such apparatus, the strand materials being advanced in indeterminate lengths and along predetermined paths are advanced at varying strand velocities. Such variation in strand velocity has, in many instances, been a source of uneveness in the application of lubricants or the like. By way of example only, strands drawn in engagement with solid bodies of lubricants such as wax and the like may take on from the solid body varying quantities of lubricant depending upon tension and speed of the yarn. Where an alternative form of lubricant application is used, such as spraying, dripping or transfer from a lubricant roll, the variations in lubricant application which can easily result from variations in strand velocity and tension may be compounded by other factors. The same or similar problems exist in similar dyeing, coating, and other processes and apparatus. In general, uniformity of material application is of significance as any following process must otherwise accomodate undesirable variations. Thus, as a general matter, improved uniformity of lubrication or the like is desirable and important. In some specific instances, a desired non uniform profile of material application along the length of a strand may be desirable. In both the general and specific, control over application is critical. Brief Description of Invention In view of the above discussion, it is an object of the present invention to facilitate greater control over application of material such as lubricant to strand materials such as textile yarn advanced in indeterminate lengths and along predetermined paths. In realizing this object of the present invention, advancing strand material is engaged and a signal indicative of strand velocity is generated. sspSication of lubricant or the like is then cont in response to the generated signal. Yet a further object of the present invention is to provide for handlin vfistrand materials such as textile yarn in accordance with methods under which tension imposed on an engaged strand may be controllably varied.In accordance with the present invention, control over tension imposed and over lubricant applied may be coordinated, in order to facilitate improved uniformity in lubrication Yet a further object of the present invention is the provision of apparatus for lubricating strand material such as textile yarn as the strand material is advanced in an indeterminate length and along a predetermined path, and in which strand material advancing along the path is engaged for generating a signal indicative of strand velocity and for transferring lubricant thereto from a lubricant roll. A control is provided which includes a drive for the lubricant roll which is responsive to the signaled strand velocity for controllably varying the amount of lubricant applied to the strand material as a function of strand velocity and thereby obtaining a desired uniformity or a desired profile of lubrication. Brief Description of Drawings Some of the objects of the invention having been stated, other objects will appear as the description proceeds, when taken in connection with the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 1 is a schematic representation of an apparatus in accordance with the present invention Figure 2 is an enlarged elevation view of a lubricant roll forming a portion of the apparatus ofFigure 1 and Figure 3 is an enlarged sectional view of the surface of the roll of Figure 2. Detailed Description of the Invention While the present invention will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which a preferred embodiment of the present invention is shown, it is to be understood at the outset of the description which follows that persons of skill in the appropriate arts may modify the invention here described while still achieving the favorable results of this invention. Accordingly, the description which follows is to be understood as being a broad, teaching disclosure directed to persons of skill in the appropriate arts, and not as limiting upon the present invention. Referring now more particularly to the accompanying figures, an apparatus in accordance with the present invention is there somewhat schematically illustrated. In the form shown, the apparatus operates in conjunction with a winder of a type having a package winding spindle 10 and a package drive means 11 for advancing strand materials along a predetermined path 12. The package drive means, in the form illustrated, is an electrical motor rotating the package winding spindle. As is conventional in such winders, a traverse motion compensator 14 is provided in order to maintain certain desired characteristics for the package being formed at the package winding location. As is known to persons familiar with such apparatus for handling strand materials, a strand fi such as a textile yarn is advanced in indeterminate length and along a predetermined, defined path by the operation of the package winding spindle and drive 10, 11. In accordance with the present invention, the strand this trained about and engages a means, generally indicated at 15, for generating a signal indicative of strand velocity. Preferably, the means 15 includes an especially configured sheave which engages the strand material, in particular a textile yarn, in such a way that the strand is gripped and its movement along the predetermined path is quite accurately reflected by rotation of the sheave. By appropriate means such as a rotational encoder of known type, an accurate signal indicative of strand velocity is generated by rotation of the means 15. Further, inasmuch as the sheave forming a portion of the means 15 is fixed to a shaft for rotation therewith and is in gripping engagement with the strand X, an appropriate controllable brake generally indicated at 17 and housed within the means 15, such as a magnetic brake of a known type such as shown in White United States Patent 3,797,775 is coupled to the shaft to form a portion of the means.Thus, the velocity signaling means comprises means for adjustably varying tension imposed on the engaged strand material E. The strand X, moving along the predetermined path of travel, passes adjacent an applicator means generally indicated at 16. The applicator means 16, in the specific form shown and in accordance with the present invention, is capable of applying controllably variable amounts of lubricant to strand material advancing along the path. In the form illustrated, the applicator means 16 comprises a lubrication roll 18 mounted adjacent the strand path for rotation and for engaging strand material and transferring lubricant thereto. The roll 18 is mounted to rotate through a reservoir 19 in which a body of liquid lubricant is maintained. Preferably, the surface of the roll 18 has a chevron pattern of grooves applied thereto Figures 2 and 3 , so as to distribute lubricant over the surface of the roll and enhance the uniformity of application.The chevron pattern has been found to be an important element of the specific arrangement shown. The lubricant roll 18 is driven in rotation by an appropriate drive means such as the illustrated electrical motor 20, which forms a portion of a control means. The control means is operatively connected to the velocity signalling means 15 and to the applicator means for. responding to signals indicative of strand velocity by controllably varying the amount of lubricant applied to strand material advancing along the path. In the form illustrated, the control means comprises electrical signal processing means for receiving signals generated by the rotational encoder mentioned hereinabove.The electrical signal processing means is capable of processing encoder signals over time in order to determine velocity and, by appropriate processing of such signals, to derive a drive signal to be applied to the drive means 20 so as to apply lubricant in a desired uniformity or in a desired profile. AS will be appreciated by persons of appropriate skill in the applicable arts, the applicator means 16 may take other forms such as an aspirator, may apply a material or materials other than lubricants, and or may apply material from a liquid, solid or gas source. In accordance with this invention, critical elements are that strand velocity varies and that application rates are controllably varied with velocity. As will be appreciated by persons of appropriate skill in the applicable arts of processing electrical signals, and particularly digital signals, information derived from the velocity signaling means 15 is further adapted to a determination fo the length of strand material. The present invention contemplates that the control means may comprise length limit means such as suggested, for example, in Warshaw United States Patent 3,172,779 or Weller United States Patent 3,293,760 orMutziger United States Patent 3,564,219 and may be operatively connected to the package drive 11 for controllably interrupting continued advancement of strand material along the predetermined path as may be desired.Thus, the functions of the apparatus as described to the present point may include monitoring and controlling lubricant application through the parameters described above, controlling strand tension through the operations described above, and terminating winding upon selected package sizes being reached. As will be appreciated by persons skilled in the arts of electrical controls, and particularly digital controls, central processing units are available which have the capability of monitoring a plurality of thread lines or a number of individual strands of material being processed at substantially the same time on one or more apparatus. Thus, the present invention specifically contemplates the provision of multiple channel control arrangements.Where such arrangements are employed, a multiple station winding machine may be operated under the control of a single control means, while means for engaging each of a plurality of strands and for applying lubricant to each of the plurality of engaged strands are provided. In operation, and as briefly described above, strand material such as textile yarn is advanced in an indeterminate length and along a predetermined path. The material is engaged while advancing along the path and while a signal indicative of strand velocity is generated. Controllably variable amounts of lubricant are applied to the strand material as the material advances along the path, and the amounts of lubricant applied are varied in response to the signals indicative of strand velocity. By such variation, a uniform application of lubricant along the length of the strand material is achieved. Alternatively, the possibility exists of controlling a profile by which the quantity of lubricant applied might vary in a controlled predetermined manner along the length of strand material, should that be deemed desirable. In the drawings and specifications there has been set forth a preferred embodiment of the invention and, although specific terms are used, the description thus given uses terminology in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.