# Deodorized rubber additives.

## Abstract
A deodorized rubber additive comprising 1 a phosphorus containing compound of formula

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A deodorized rubber additive comprising 1 a phosphorus containing compound of formulaEMI25.1 wherein each of R1 and R2 independently represents an alkyl, alkenyl, cycloalkyl or aryl group andX represents an oxygen or sulfur atom or a sulfonamide compound of formulaEMI25.2 wherein each of R3 and R4 independently represents an alkyl group of 1 to 12 carbon atoms, a cycloalkyl group, or an aryl group , and 2 at least one material selected from fine particle inorganic fillers for rubber compounding, amine compounds and metal salts of fatty acids. 2. A deodorized rubber additive according to claim 1, containing a fine particle inorganic filler for rubber compounding which is silica, clay, calcium carbonate, titanium oxide, talc or diatomaceous earth. 3. A deodorized rubber additive according to claim 1 or 2 containing an amine compound which is an aliphatic amine an alicyclic amine, an aromatic amine or an alkanolamine. 4. A deodorized rubber additive according to claim 1, 2 or 3 containing a metal salt of a fatty acid which is a zinc, copper or iron salt of caprylic acid, pelargonic acid, capric acid, undecylic acid, lauric acid, tridecylic acid, myristic acid, pentadecylic acid, palmitic acid, margaric acid, stearic acid, oleic acid, nonadecylic acid, or arachic acid. 5. A deodorized rubber additive according to any one of the preceding claims containing a fine particle inorganic filler for rubber compounding in an amount of 50 to 2000 parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of the phosphorus containing compound of formula I or the sulfonamide compound of formula II . 6. A deodorized rubber additive according to any one of the preceding claims containing an amine compound in an amount of 0.1 to 20 parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of the phosphorus containing compound of formula I or the sulfonamide compound of formula II . 7. A deodorized rubber additive according to any one of the preceding claims containing a metal salt of a fatty acid in an amount of 5 to 300 parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of the phosphorus containing compound of the formula I or the sulfonamide compound of the formul II . 8. A method of producing a rubber vulcanisate, which comprises vulcanizing a rubber composition comprising a rubber and a deodorized rubber additive as claimed in any one of the preceding claims. 9. A method according to claim 8 wherein the deodorized rubber additive is used in an amount of 0.01 5 parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of the rubber.

## Description
DEODORIZED RUBBER ADDITIVES This invention relates to a rubber additive and, more particularly, to a deodorized rubber additive. With the increase in size of rubber products such as tires and belting as well as with the improvement in productive efficiency, unvulcanized rubber compounds are apt to undergo severer heat history.For this reason, demand for a more advanced retarder is very strong among concerned industrial circles. Although the phosphorus containing acid amides described in U.S. Patent 3,932,403 and the sulfonamides in Published Examined Japanese PatentApplication No. 14,379 1982 have each an excellent retarding activity sufficient to meet the industrial requirements, yet they have specific odors originated in themselves. On the other hand, in company with the change in factory environment and the upsurge of safety and hygienic awareness, a strict regulation has recently been enforced with respect to odors of rubber compounding ingredients in the rubber industry. In view of this, the above noted retarders present a problem yet to be solved. The present inventors made an extensive study to deodorize the rubber additives of the phosphoruscontaining type and the sulfonamide type, both of which emit specific odors and are difficult to put into actual use in spite of their excellent retarding activities. As a result, it was found that a specified adjuvant is effective for the deodorization. An object of this invention is to provide a deodorized rubber additive to be used as retarder. Another object of this invention is to provide a method for the vulcanization of rubber compositions by using the deodorized rubber additive as retarder. Other objects and advantages of this invention will become apparent from the following description. According to this invention, there is provided a deodorized rubber additive comprising 1 a phosphorus containing compound represented by the formulaEMI2.1 wherein R1 and R2 represent each an alkyl, alkenyl, cycloalkyl, or aryl group and X represents an oxygen or sulfur atom, or a sulfonamide compound represented by the formulaEMI2.2 wherein R3 and R4 represent each an alkyl group of 1 to 12 carbon atoms, a cycloalkyl group, or an aryl group, and 2 at least one member selected from the group consisting of fine particle inorganic fillers for rubber compounding, amine compounds, and metal salts of fatty acids. Further, according to this invention, there is provided a method of producing a vulcanized rubber, which is characterized by vulcanizing a rubber composition containing the said deodorized rubber additives, a vulcanizing agent, and a vulcanization accelerator. The invention is described below in detail. Examples of groups represented by R1 and R2 in the formula I are methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl, isobutyl, tert butyl, hexyl, n octyl, tert octyl, n dodecyl, tert dodecyl, and n octadecyl among alkyl groups propenyl, n but l enyl, isobutenyl, dodecenyl, and n octadecenyl among alkenyl group cyclopentyl and cyclohexyl among cycloalkyl groups and phenyl, o , m and p tolyl, and naphthyl among aryl groups. Examples of phosphorus containing compounds represented by the formula I , include N,N ,N tris isopropylthio N,N ,N triphenylphosphoric triamide, N,N ,N tris n butylthio N,N ,N triphenyl phosphoric triamide, N,N ,N tris cyclohexylthio N,N ,N triphenylphosphoric triamide, N,N ,N tris benzylthio N,N ,N triphenylphosphoric triamide, N,N ,N tris n octadecylthio N,N ,N trimethylphosphoric triamide, N,N ,N tris methylthio N,N ,N trimethyl phosphoric triamide, N,N ,N tris isopropylthio N,ND,N tricyclohexyIphosphoric triamide, N,N ,N trimethyl N,N ,N tris isopropylthio phosphorothioic triamide, N,N ,N tri n butyl N,N ,N tris cyclohexyl thio phosphorothioic triamide, N,N ,N tricyclohexyl N,N ,N tris isopropylthio phosphorothioic triamide, N,N ,N trimethyl N,N ,N tris phenylthio phosphoro thioic triamide, RTI ID 4.9 N,N ,N triphenyl N,N ,N tri n butyl N,N1 ,N tris cyclohexylthio phosphorothioic triamide,N,N ,N tricyclohexyl N,N ,N tris isopropylthio phosphorothioic triamide, N,N ,N trimethyl N,N ,N tris phenylthio phosphorothioic triamide, and N,N ,N triphenyl N,N ,N tris isopropylthio phosphorothioic triamide. Examples of groups represented by R3 and R4 in the formula II are methyl, ethyl, propyl, butyl, amyl, hexyl, hepthyl, octyl, nonyl, decyl, dodecyl, and isomers thereof among alkyl groups cyclopentyl and cyclohexyl among cycloalkyl groups and phenyl, tolyl, xylyl, and naphthyl among aryl groups. Examples of sulfonamide compounds represented by the formula II , include N methylthio N tertbutylbenzothiazole 2 sulfonamide, N isopropylthio Nsec butylbenzothiazole 2 sulfonamide, N tert butylthioN tert butylbenzothiazole 2 sulfonamide, N cyclohexylthio N tert butylbenzothiazole 2 sulfonamide, Nphenylthio N tert butylbenzothiazole 2 sulfonamide, N xylylthio N tert butylbenzothiazole 2 sulfonamide, N isopropylthio N Cyclohexylbenzothiazole 2 sulfon amide, N sec butyl N cyclohexylbenzothiazole 2sulfonamide, N tert octylthio N cyclohexylbenzothiazole 2 sulfonamide, N decylthio N cyclohexylbenzothiazole 2 sulfonamide, N isopropyl N phenylbenzothiazole 2 sulfonamide, N tert butylthio Nphenylbenzothiazole 2 sulfonamide, N tert octyl Nphenylbenzothiazole 2 sulfonamide, N dodecylthio Nphenylbenzothiazole 2 sulfonamide, N cyclohexyl Nphenylbenzothiazole 2 sulfonamide, and N phenylthio Nphenylbenzothiazole 2 sulfonamide. The amine compounds used in this invention include aliphatic amines, alicyclic amines, aromatic amines, and alkanolamines. Examples of these amines are trimethylamine, diethylamine, triethylamine, monopropylamine, dipropylamine, tripropylamine, monobutylamine, dibutylamine, tributylamine, monooctylamine, dioctylamine, trioctylamine, monostearylamine, distearylamine, tristearylamine, and isomers thereof among aliphatic amines monocyclohexylamine, dicyclohexylamine, mono dimethylcyclohexyl amine, and isomers thereof among alicyclic amines aniline, diphenylamine, toluidine, xylidine, and isomers thereof among aromatic amines and trimethanolamine, monoethanolamine, diethanolamine, triethanolamine, monopropanolamine, dipropanolamine, tripropanolamine, monobutanolamine, dibutanolamine, tributanolamine, and isomers thereof among alkanolamines.Of these amine compounds, alkanolamines are preferred. Examples of fine particle inorganic fillers for rubber compounding used in this invention, include silica, clay, calcium carbonate, titanium oxide, talc, and diatomaceous earth, which are 10 p or less, preferably 1 or less, more preferably 0.1 V or less in an average particle size. Of these fillers, preferable are calcium carbonate, clay, talc and diatomaceous earth, which are 1 p or less, preferably 0.1 p or less in the particle size. More preferable is calcium carbonate of 0.1 V or less in the particle size, particularly that treated with an organic acid. Examples of fatty acid components of the metal salts used in this invention, include caprylic acid, pelargonic acid, capric acid, undecylic acid, lauric acid, tridecylic acid, myristic acid, pentadecylic acid, palmitic acid, margaric acid, stearic acid, oleic acid, nonadecylic acid, and arachic acid. Of these acids, particularly preferred are stearic acid and oleic acid. The metal components of the metal salts of fatty acids are, for example, zinc, copper, and iron. Of these, zinc is most preferred. The amine compounds may be used generally in an amount of 0.1 to 20 parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of the phosphorus containing compound formula I or the sulfonamide compound formula II .If the amount of the amine is below 0.1 part by weight, the deodorizing effect is insufficient, whereas if it exceeds 20 parts by weight, the vulcanization retarding activity of the phosphorus containing compound or the sulfonamide compound tends to decline.The fine particle inorganic fillers for rubber compounding may be used in an amount of 50 parts by weight or more, generally 50 to 2,000 parts by weight, based on 100 parts by weight of the phosphorus containing compound or the sulfonamide compound. The fatty acid metal salts may be used in an amount of 5 to 300 parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of the phosphorus containing compound formula I or the sulfonamide compound formula II . The mixing of the phosphorus containing compound or the sulfonamide compound and at least one adjuvant selected from fine particle inorganic fillers for rubber compounding, amine compounds, and metal salts of fatty acids can be carried out by any of the customary methods. For instance, one or more of the above adjuvants are thoroughly mixed with a solution of the phosphorus containing compound formula I or the sulfonamide compound formula II in a suitable solvent, and the solvent is then removed by distillation or other means to yield a uniform mixture. The mixing may also be performed by means of a mechanical mixer to produce a uniform mixture. The rubber additive of this invention thus prepared is substantially deodorized without deterioration in essential properties of phosphorus containing compounds formula I or sulfonamide compounds formula II and is used advantageously in the vulcanization of rubber without any accompanied odor problem. The rubbers used in this invention are natural rubber and synthetic rubbers such as cis polybutadiene, butyl rubber, ethylene propylene terpolymer, polymers of 1,3 butadienes such as isoprene and chloroprene and copolymers of 1,3 butadiene with other monomers such as styrene, acrylonitrile and isobutylene. According to this invention, the vulcanizate of these rubbers is produced in the following way A vulcanizable rubber composition is prepared by blending 100 parts by weight of a rubber with 0.01 to 5 parts by weight of the present deodorized rubber additive and suitable amounts of a vulcanizing agent e.g. sulfur , a vulcanization accelerator e.g. Ncyclohexyl 2 benzothiazylsulfenamide, N t butyl 2benzothiazylsulfenamide, 2 mercaptobenzothiazole, dibenzothiazyldisulfenamide, tetramethylthiuram disulfide , and conventional rubber adjuvants e.g.stearic acid, zinc oxide . The resulting rubber composition is vulcanized in a customary manner, for example, at 130 to 2000C, for 0.1 to 5 hours. When the vulcanization is carried out according to this invention, the specific odor characteristic of the phosphoruscontaining compound formula I or the sulfonamide compound formula II is greatly reduced so that the working environment is not adversely affected, and the vulcanization proceeds at a favorable rate until completion. The invention is illustrated below with reference to Examples, but the invention is not limited thereto.Example 1 Run No. 1. Into 50 g of acetone, was dissolved 10 g of N,N ,N11 tris isopropylthio N,N ,N1, triphenylphos phoric triamide, used as the phosphorus containing compound. After addition of 1 g of triisopropanolamine and thorough mixing, the solution was freed from the acetone by distillation under reduced pressure in a customary manner. Each 10 g of the above phosphoruscontaining compound before and after addition of the triisopropanolamine were placed respectively in tightly closed polyethylene bottles of 100 ml in volume. After the bottle had been left standing for 30 minutes at 400C, the air in the bottle was transferred by means of a syringe into a polyethylene bag provided with a slide fastener, and progressively diluted with purified air. The dilution ratio at which the odor became undetectable was referred to as odor index . Run Nos. 2 6 and Comparative Example. Similar tests were run by using each 10 g of various phosphor containing compounds and varied amounts of various amines as shown in Table 1, in which are also shown the odor indices. Table 1 EMI10.1 Amine SEP compound SEP Odor tb Phosphorus containing SEP compound tb Run SEP No. tb Amount tb Name SEP Index tb g tb 2 SEP N,N ,N tris SEP isopropylthio SEP N,N ,N SEP Triisopro0.5 SEP 8 tb triphenylphosphoric SEP triamide SEP panolamine tb 3 SEP SEP Mono2 SEP 125 tb octylamine tb 4 SEP N,N ,N tris SEP cyclohexylthio SEP N,N ,N SEP Diethanol1 SEP 11 tb triphenylphosphoric SEP triamide SEP amine tb 5 SEP SEP Toluidine SEP 1 SEP 180 tb 6 SEP N,N ,N tricyclohexyl N,N ,N tris SEP iso SEP Cyclohexy1 SEP 165 tb propylthio SEP phosphorothioic SEP triamide SEP amine tb N,N ,N tris SEP isopropylthio SEP N,N ,N SEP SEP SEP 350 tb triphenylphosphoric SEP triamide tb Comparative SEP N,N ,N tris SEP cyclohexylthio SEP N,N ,N SEP SEP SEP 295 tb Example SEP triphenylphosphoric SEP triamide tb N,N ,N tricyclohexyl N N ,N tris SEP SEP 435 tb isopropylthio SEP phosphorothioic SEP triamide tb Example 2 Run No. 1. A mixture was prepared by mixing 100 g of N,N ,N tris isopropylthio N,N ,N triphenylphosphoric triamide, used as the phosphorus containing compound, and 200 g of Neolite S calcium carbonate treated with a fatty acid, 0.04 p in average particle size, produced by Takehara Chemical Co. in a bench mixer type 5 DM of Shinagawa KÏgyÏsho Co. at 500 rpm for 10 minutes. The above phosphorus containing compound 10 g and the above mixture 30 g were placed respectively in tightly closed polyethylene bottles of 100 ml in volume. After the bottle had been left standing for 30 minutes at 400C, the air in the bottle was withdrawn by means of a syringe and progressively diluted with purified air. The dilution ratio at which the odor became undetectable was referred to as odor index . Run Nos. 2 6 and Comparative Example. Similar tests were run by using other phosphorus containing compounds and other inorganic fillers for rubber compounding as shown in Table 2.In the odor test, the quantity of phosphorus containing compound in the bottle was 10 g in each case. Table 2 EMI12.1 Inorganic SEP filler tb average SEP particle SEP Odor tb Run SEP No. SEP Phosphorus containing SEP compound 1 SEP size SEP in SEP parenthesis SEP index tb Amount tb Name SEP g tb 2 SEP N,N ,N tris SEP isopropylthio SEP N,N ,N SEP Neloite SEP S tb 200 SEP 4 tb triphenylphosphoric SEP triamide SEP 0.04 SEP tb 3 SEP SEP Hakuenka SEP O 2 tb 50 SEP 6 tb 0.03 SEP tb 4 SEP N,N ,N tris SEP cyclohexylthio SEP N,N ,N SEP Snowlite SEP SSS 3 tb 500 SEP 140 tb triphenylphosphoric SEP triamide SEP 2.22 SEP tb 5 SEP SEP LPG 4 tb 200 SEP 100 tb 0. SEP 30 SEP tb 6 SEP N,N ,N tricyclohexyl N,N ,N tris SEP Carplex SEP num 1120 5 tb 1000 SEP 185 tb isopropylthio SEP phosphorothioic SEP triamide SEP 0.02 SEP tb N,N ,N tris SEP isopropylthio SEP N,N ,N SEP SEP 350 tb triphenylphosphoric SEP triamide tb Comparative SEP N,N ,N tris SEP cyclohexylthio SEP N,N ,N SEP SEP 295 tb Example SEP triphenylphophoric SEP triamide tb N,N ,N tricyclohexyl N,N ,N tris SEP iso SEP SEP 435 tb propylthio SEP phosphorothioic SEP triamide tb Note 1 Amount of the charge of phosphorus containing compound 100 g 2 Calcium carbonate treated with resin acid Shiraishi KÏgyÏ Co. 3 Calcium carbonate treated with a fatty acid Maruo Calcium Co. 4 Hard clay Huber Co. 5 Silica Shionogi Co. Example 3 Run No. 1. To a solution of 10 g of N,N ,N tris iso propylthio N,N ,N triphenylphosphoric triamide, used as the phosphorus containing compound, in 50 g of acetone, was added 1 g of zinc stearate. After having been uniformly mixed, the mixture was freed from the acetone by distillation under reduced pressure in a customary manner. Each 10 g of the above phosphoruscontaining compound before and after addition of the zinc stearate were placed respectively in tightly closed polyethylene bottles of 100 ml in volume. After the bottle had been left standing at 400C for 30 minutes, the air in the bottle was transferred by means of a syringe into a polyethylene bag provided with a slide fastener, and progressively diluted with purified air. The dilution ratio at which the odor became no longer detectable was referred to as odor index . Run Nos. 2 6 and Comparative Example. Similar tests were run by using each 10 g of various phosphorus containing compounds and varied amounts of various metal salts of fatty acids as shown in Table 3. The odor indices were as shown in the same Table. Table 3 EMI15.1 Fatty SEP acid SEP matal tb Run SEP No. SEP Phosphorus containing SEP compound SEP salt SEP Odor tb Amount SEP index tb Name tb g tb 2 SEP N,N ,N tris SEP isopropylthio SEP N,N ,N SEP Zinc tb 1 SEP 105 tb triphenylphosphoric SEP triamide SEP stearate tb 3 SEP SEP SEP 80 SEP 14 tb 4 SEP N,N ,N tris SEP cyclohexylthio SEP N,N ,N SEP Zinc tb 10 SEP 15 tb triphenylphosphoric SEP triamide SEP oleate tb 5 SEP SEP Copper tb 10 SEP 28 tb tridecylate tb 6 SEP N N ,N tricyclohexyl N,N ,N tris SEP Zinc tb 10 SEP 29 tb isopropylthio SEP phosphorothioic SEP triamide SEP nonadecylate tb N,N ,N tris SEP isopropylthio SEP N N ,N SEP SEP 350 tb triphenylphosphoric SEP triamide tb Comparative SEP N,N ,N tris SEP cyclohexylthio SEP N,N ,N SEP SEP 295 tb Example SEP triphenylphosphoric SEP triamide tb N,N ,N tricyclohexyl N,N ,N tris SEP SEP 435 tb isopropylthio SEP phosphorothioic SEP triamide tb Example 4 Run No. 1. To a solution of 10 g of N isopropylthioN cyclohexylbenzothiazole 2 sulfonamide, used as the sulfonamide compound, in 50 g of acetone, was added 1 g of triisopropanolamine. After having been uniformly mixed, the mixture was freed from the acetone by distillation under reduced pressure in a customary manner. Each 10 g of the above sulfonamide compound before and after addition of the triisopropanolamine were placed respectively in tightly closed polyethylene bottles of 100 ml in volume. After the bottle had been left standing at 400C for 30 minutes, the air in the bottle was transferred by means of a syringe into a polyethylene bag provided with a slide fastener, and progressively diluted with purified air. The dilution ratio at which the odor became no longer detectable was referred to as odor index . Run Nos. 2 6 and Comparative Example. Similar tests were performed by using each 10 g of various sulfonamide compounds and varied amounts of various amine compounds as shown in Table 4.The odor indices were as shown in the same Table. Table 4 EMI17.1 Amine SEP compound tb Run SEP No. SEP Sulfonamide SEP compound SEP Odor tb Amount SEP index tb Name tb g tb N isopropylthio N cyclohexylbenzo SEP Triisopropanol2 SEP 0.5 SEP 19 tb thiazole 2 sulfonamide SEP amine tb Monooctyl3 SEP SEP 2 SEP 130 tb amine tb N cyclohexylthio N tert butylbenzo SEP Diethanol4 SEP 1 SEP 23 tb thiazole 2 sulfonamide SEP amine tb 5 SEP SEP Toluidine SEP 1 SEP 210 tb N phenylthio N phenylbenzo SEP Cyclohexyl6 SEP 1 SEP 195 tb thiazole 2 sulfonamide SEP amine tb N isopropylthio N cyclohexylbenzo SEP SEP 520 tb thiazole 2 sulfonamide tb Comparative SEP N cyclohexylthio N tert butyl SEP SEP 315 tb Example SEP benzothiazole 2 sulfonamide tb N phenylthio N phenylbenzo SEP SEP 340 tb thiazole 2 sulfonamide tb Example 5 Run No. 1. A mixture was prepared by mixing 100 g of N isopropylthio N cyclohexylbenzothiazole 2 sulfonamide, used as the sulfonamide compound, and 200 g of NeoliteS calcium carbonate treated with fatty acid, 0.04 p in average particle size, produced by Takehara ChemicalCo. in a bench mixer type 5 DM of Shinagawa KÏgyÏsho Co. at 500 rpm for 10 minutes. The above sulfonamide compound 10 g and the above mixture 30 g were placed respectively in tightly closed polyethylene bottles of 100 ml in volume. After the bottle had been left standing at 400C for 30 minutes, the air in the bottle was withdrawn by means of a syringe and progressively diluted with purified air. The dilution ratio at which the odor became no longer detectable was referred to as odor index . Run Nos. 2 6 and Comparative Example. Similar tests were performed by using other sulfonamide compounds and other finely subdivided inorganic fillers for rubber compounding as shown inTable 5. In the odor test, the quantity of sulfonamide compound in the bottle was 10 g in each case. Table 5 EMI19.1 Inorganic SEP filler tb Run SEP No. SEP Sulfonamide SEP compound 1 SEP average SEP particle tb Odor tb size SEP in SEP parenhesis tb index tb Amount tb Name SEP g tb N isopropylthio N cyclohexylbenzo SEP Neolite SEP S tb 2 SEP 200 SEP 12 tb thiazole 2 sulfonamide SEP 0.04 SEP tb Hakuenka SEP 0 2 tb 3 SEP SEP 50 SEP 8 tb 0.03 SEP tb N cyclohexylthio N tert butylbenzo SEP Snowlite SEP SSS 3 tb 4 SEP 500 SEP 155 tb thiazole 2 sulfonamide SEP 2.22 SEP tb LGB 4 tb 5 SEP SEP 200 SEP 98 tb 0.30 SEP tb N phenylthio N phenylbenzo SEP Caxplex SEP num 1120 5 tb 6 SEP 1000 SEP 110 tb thiazole 2 sulfonamide SEP 0.02 SEP tb N isopropylthio N cyclohexyl SEP SEP 520 tb benzothiazole 2 sulfonamide tb Comparative SEP N cyclohexylthio N tert butyl SEP SEP 315 tb Example SEP benzothiazole 2 sulfonamide tb N phenylthio N phenylbenzo SEP SEP 340 tb thiazole 2 sulfonamide tb Note 1 Amount of charge of sulfonamide compound 100 g 2 Calcium carbonate treated with resin acid Shiraishi KÏgyÏ Co. 3 Calcium carbonate treated with a fatty acid Maruo Calcium Co. 4 Hard clay Huber Co. 5 Silica Shionogi Co. Example 6 Run No. 1 To a solution of 10 g of N isopropylthio Ncyclohexylbenzothiazole 2 sulfonamide, used as the sulfonamide compound, in 50 g of acetone, was added 1 g of zinc stearate.After having been uniformly mixed, the mixture was freed from the acetone by distillation under reduced pressure in a customary manner. Each 10 g of the above sulfonamide compound before and after addition of the zinc stearate were placed respectively in tightly closed polyethylene bottles of 100 ml in volume. After the bottle had been left standing at 400C for 30 minutes, the air in the bottle was transferred by means of a syringe into a polyethylene bag provided with a slide fastener, and progressively diluted with purified air. The dilution ratio at which the odor became no more detectable was referred to as odor index . Run Nos. 2 6 and Comparative Example. Similar tests were run by using each 10 g of other sulfonamide compounds and varied amounts of various metal salts of fatty acids as shown in Table 6.The odor indices were also shown in Table 6. Table 6 EMI22.1 Metal SEP salt SEP of tb Run SEP No. SEP Sulfonamide SEP compound SEP fatty SEP acid SEP Odor tb Amount SEP index tb Name tb g tb N isopropylthio N cyclohexylbenzo SEP Zinc tb 2 SEP 1 SEP 170 tb thiazole 2 sulfonamide SEP stearate tb 3 SEP SEP SEP 80 SEP 21 tb N cyclohexylthio N tert butyl SEP Zinc tb 4 SEP 10 SEP 27 tb benzothiazole 2 sulfonamide SEP oleate tb Copper tb 5 SEP SEP 10 SEP 41 tb tridecylate tb N phenylthio N phenylbenzo SEP Zinc tb 6 SEP 10 SEP 48 tb thiazole 2 sulfonamide SEP nonadeoylate tb N isopropylthio N cyclohexyl SEP SEP 520 tb benzothiazole 2 sulfonamide tb Comparative SEP N cyclohexylthio N tert butyl SEP SEP 315 tb Example SEP benzothiazole 2 sulfonamide tb N phenylthio N phenylbenzo SEP SEP 340 tb thiazole 2 sulfonamide tb Example 7 Deodorized rubber additives obtained in eachRun No. 1 of Examples 1 to 6 were used for rubber vulcanization as a retarder as follows. Natural rubber 80 parts by weight andSBR num 1500 20 parts by weight were pre kneaded at 1200C to 1300C for 1 minute in Banbury mixer. HAFBlack 45 parts by weight , stearic acid 3 parts by weight , softener 3 parts by weight , sulfur 2.5 parts , zinc white 5 parts by weight , N phenyl N isopropylp phenylenediamine antioxidant, 2 parts by weight and the deodorized rubber additive the amount being shown in Table 7 were added into the mixer. After kneading for 2 minutes, the resulting mixture was taken out of the mixer and then mixed with N cyclohexylbenzothiazolsulfenamide vulcanization accelerator, 1 part by weight using an open roll mixer surface temperature 600 to 700C . The resulting vulcanizable rubber composition was examined for Mooney scorch time and vulcanization behaviors, according to JIS K 6300 and ASTM D 2084, respectively. The vulcanization was carried out at 1450C for 30 minutes on a vulcanization press. The vulcanizate obtained was subjected to tensile test according toJIS K 630l. The results are as shown in Table 7. Table 7 EMI24.1 Deodorized SEP rubber SEP additive SEP Retarder SEP Physical SEP properties SEP of SEP rubber tb Amount SEP pasts SEP by SEP Mooney SEP scorch SEP Optimum SEP cure SEP Modulus tb Kind SEP weight SEP based SEP on SEP time SEP time tb 100 SEP parts SEP by SEP ML5 SEP min. SEP T90 SEP min. SEP M300 SEP kg cm2 tb weight SEP of SEP rubber tb N,N ,N tris SEP isopropylthio SEP N,N ,N 0.1 SEP 16.1 SEP 13.0 SEP 125 tb triphenylphosphoric tb triamide tb Additive SEP of SEP Example SEP 1 SEP 0.11 SEP 16.0 SEP 12.9 SEP 126 tb Additive SEP of SEP Example SEP 2 SEP 0.30 SEP 16.2 SEP 13.1 SEP 126 tb Additive SEP of SEP Example SEP 3 SEP 0.11 SEP 16.0 SEP 13.3 SEP 124 tb N isopropylthio Ncyclohexylbenzothia SEP 0.10 SEP 12.2 SEP 11.4 SEP 132 tb zol 2 sulfenamide tb Additive SEP of SEP Example SEP 4 SEP 0.11 SEP 12.0 SEP 11.5 SEP 133 tb Additive SEP of SEP Example SEP 5 SEP 0.30 SEP 12.5 SEP 11.2 SEP 131 tb Additive SEP of SEP Example SEP 6 SEP 0.11 SEP 12.1 SEP 11.3 SEP 135 tb