# Room temperature vulcanizable polyorganosiloxane compositions containing alcoholic and carboxylic organofunctionality.

## Abstract
Room temperature vulcanizable silicone rubber com positions filled with calcium carbonate are resistant to soiling when certain polyorganosiloxanes containing COH and or COOH are present in the composition.

## Claims
Claims 1. A room temperature vulcanizable polyorganosiloxane composition comprising a product obtained by mixing A 100 parts by weight of polydiorganosiloxane having at least two silicon bonded hydroxyl groups or silicon bonded hydrolyzable groups per molecule and a viscosity at 250C in the range of from 0.0003 to 0.3 m2 s, the organic radicals of the polydiorganosiloxane being selected from the group consisting of monovalent hydrocarbon radicals and monovalent halogenated hydrocarbon radicals, B from 1 to 400 parts by weight of calcium carbonate filler, C an amount of an organosilicon compound sufficient to make the composition vulcanizable at room temperature, the organosilicon compound having at least an average of two silicon bonded hydrolyzable groups per molecule, where the total number of silicon bonded hydroxyl groups or silicon bonded hydrolyzable groups per molecule of polydiorganosiloxane of A and of the silicon bonded hydrolyzable groups in the organosilicon compound exceeds 4, and D from 0.5 to 50 parts by weight of a polyorganosiloxane having organofunctional groups selected from alcoholic functional and carboxyl functional organic radicals where the alcoholic functional organic radicals are selected from the group consisting of CH20H, CH2CH2OH, CH2CH2CH2OH, EMI28.1 CH2 6OH, CH2CH2CH CH2OH 2, and CH2CH2COOCH2CH2OH, and where the carboxyl functional organic radicals are selected from the group consisting of CH2CH2COOH, EMI28.2 CH2CH2CH2COOH, CH2CH2CH COOH 2, and CH2 8COOH, the organic radicals of the polyorganosiloxane being 0.2 to 50 percent of said organofunctional groups and the remaining organic radicals being selected from monovalent hydrocarbon radicals and monovalent halogenated hydrocarbon radicals. 2. The composition according to claim 1 in which the polydiorganosiloxane of A is an alpha, omega dihydroxypolydimethylsiloxane having a viscosity at 250C in the range of 0.001 to 0.05 2 s, the calcium carbonate of B is present in an amount of from 10 to 300 parts by weight and has an average particle size in the range of 0.03 to 10 micrometers, the hydrolyzable groups of the organosilicon compound of C are alkoxy and the organosilicon compound is present in an amount of from 1 to 15 parts by weight, the remaining organic radicals of the polyorganosiloxane of D are methyl radicals and the polyorganosiloxane is present in an amount of 0.5 to 20 parts by weight, and the composition further comprises a curing catalyst. 3. The composition according to claim 2 in which the organosilicon compound is vinyltriacetoxysilane. 4. The composition according to claim 2 in which the organosilicon compound isEMI29.1 5. The composition according to claim 1 in which the organosilicon compound of C is methyltrimethoxysilane, the polyorganosiloxane of D contains HOCH2CH2CH2 CH3 SiO units, CH3 2SiO units, and CH3 3SiOo 5 units, and the curing catalyst is an organotitanate. 6. The composition according to claim 1 in which the polydiorganosiloxane of A is an alpha, omega methyldimethoxysiloxy polydimethylsiloxane, the calcium carbonate of B is present in an amount of from 10 to 300 parts by weight and has an average particle size in the range of 0.03 to 10 micrometers, the polyorganosiloxane D contains HOCH2CH2CH2 CH3 SiO units, CH3 2SiO units, and CH3 3SiOo 5 units, and is present in an amount of from 0.5 to 20 parts by weight, and further comprises a diorganotindicarboxylate.

## Description
ROON TEMPERATURE VULCANI ZABLE POLYORGANOSILOXANE COMPOSITIONS CONTAINING ALCOHOLIC AND CARBOXYLIC ORGANOFUNCTIONALITY This invention relates to room temperature vulcanizable polyorganosiloxane compositions. More precisely, this invention relates to room temperature vulcanizable polyorganosiloxane compositions which are characterized by the fact that the postcure surface is not easily soiled and the base material with which the cured product is in contact is not contaminated. Conventionally, room temperature vulcanizable polyorganosiloxane compositions, especially polyorganosiloxane compositions which form rubbery substances after curing at room temperature, have been widely used as electric insulating materials, blocking materials, gaskets, and sealants. However, when these room temperature vulcanizable polyorganosiloxanes are used in the above mentioned applications, dust is easily adhered or adsorbed. In particular, when used as architectural sealants on the exteriors of buildings, liquid polyorganosiloxane slowly migrates from the cured silicone rubber to the surrounding building wall surface which absorbs the stain and the appearance of the building is impaired. A method for overcoming these drawbacks is the addition of surfactants such as polyoxyalkylene compounds or their copolymers with organopolysiloxanes to the compositions cf.JapanKokai Patent No. Sho 56 1981 76453 and Japan Okapi Patent No Sho 56 1981 76452 . In these methods, when a surfactant is added in an amount which is adequate to prevent soiling, the adhesion which is an essential characteristic of an architectural sealant is significantly impaired. Moreover, the weather resistance of polyether bonds is poor so that if the materials are used outdoors and exposed to direct sunlight the soiling prevention effect is quickly reduced. From Polmanteer in U. S. Patent No.3,635,887, issued January 18, 1972, it is known to improve the adhesion of room temperature vulcanizable silicone elastomer by adding an organosilicon compound having a COOH group and a silicon bonded hydrolyzable group. The inventors earnestly pursued the present study in an attempt to overcome the drawbacks of conventionally known room temperature vulcanizable polyorganosiloxane compositions that are easily soiled. This invention was achieved as a result. Summary of the Invention The purpose of this invention is to offer roon temperature vulcanizable polyorganosiloxane compositions with the following characteristics the postcured surface is not easily soiled, the base material with which the cured product is in contact is not contaminated, and the durability is excellent. This invention relates to a room temperature vulcanizable polyorganosiloxane compositioll comprising a product obtained by mixing A 100 parts by weight of polydiorganosiloxane having at least two silicon bonded hydroxyl groups or silicon bonded hydrolyzable groups per molecule and a viscosity at 250C. in the range of from 0.0003 to 0.3 m2 s, the organic radicals of the polydiorganosiloxane being selected from the group consisting of monovalent hydrocarbon radicals and monovalent halogenated hydrocarbon radicals, B from 1 to 400 parts by weight of calcium carbonate filler, C an amount of an organosilicon compound sufficient to make the composition vulcanizable at room temperature, the organosilicon compound having at least an average of two silicon bonded hydrolyzable groups per molecule, where the total number of silicon bonded hydroxyl groups or silicon bonded hydrolyzable groups per molecule of polydiorganosiloxane of A and the silicon bonded hydrolyzable groups in the organosilicon compound exceeds 4, and D from 0.5 to 50 parts by weight of a polyorganosiloxane having organofunctional groups selected from alcoholic functional and carboxyl functional organic radicals where the alcoholic functional organic radicals are selected from the group consisting of CH2OH, CH2CH2OH, CH2CH2CH2OH,EMI3.1 CH2 6OH, CH2CH2CH CH2OH 2, and CH2CH2COOCH2CH2OH, and where the carboxyl functional organic radicals are selected from the group consisting of CH2CH2COOH,EMI3.2 CH2CH2CH2COOH, CH2CH2CH COOH 2 and the inorganic radicals of the polyorganosiloxane being 0.2 to 50 percent of said organofunctional groups and the remaining organic radicals being selected from monovalent hydrocarbon radicals and monovalent halogenated hydrocarbon radicals. Detailed Description of the Invention The polydiorganosiloxane A is a significant component of the room temperature vulcanizable composition and at least two silicon bonded hydroxyl groups or silicon bonded hydrolyzable groups are required to complete the curing process. These groups can be present at the ends of the polydiorganosiloxane or on side chains or both. From a consideration of the postcured physical properties, they are preferably present at the ends of the molecular chain.The organic radicals of the polydiorganosiloxane can be monovalent hydrocarbon radicals such as alkyl radicals such as methyl, ethyl, propyl, and n octyl alkenyl radicals such as vinyl and allyl aryl radicals such as phenyl and naphthyl cycloalkyl radicals such as cyclohexyl and cycloheptyl and aralkyl radicals such as 2 phenylethyl and 2 phenylpropyl or monovalent halogenated hydrocarbon radicals such 3 chloropropyl and 3,3,3 trifluoroalkyl. These organic radicals can be present singly in the molecule or as a mixture of two or three types. Preferably, the organic radicals are only methyl. The viscosity of the polydiorganosiloxane at 25 C. is in the range of from 0.0003 to 0.3 m2 s 300 to 300,000 cs. . If the viscosity falls below this range, the elastic modulus of the cured product is too high and the range of applications is limited.In contrast, if the viscosity exceeds the above mentioned range, the manufacturing workability and the extrusion characteristics from the storage container are quite impaired. Preferably the viscosity of the polydiorganosiloxane is in the range of from 0.001 to 0.05 m2 s. The groups present in the polydiorganosiloxane which participate in the crosslinking reaction are normally silicon bonded hydroxyl groups, also referred to herein as silanol groups. However, silicon bonded hydrolyzable groups are also applicable. Silicon bonded hydrolyzable groups are functional groups which are capable of generating silanol groups by hydrolysis. The conventionally known functional groups are applicable. Examples of these functional groups are alkoxy, acyloxy, amino, amido, aminoxy, ketoximo and alkenoxy.The details will be explained with reference to the silicon bonded hydrolyzable groups in component C . The polydiorganosiloxane ofComponent A can be a single type or a mixture of two or more types. In the latter case, types with different viscosities can be used. The calcium carbonate filler, component B , is an essential component for achieving mixing stability between component A , the polydiorganosiloxane, and component D , the alcoholic functional or carboxylic functional polyorganosiloxane. Fillers whose primary component is calcium carbonate and which are used in rubbers ad plastics are applicable. Regardless of the manufacturing method, particle shape, average particle diameter, or surface treatment, all such fillers are applicable. For example, a powdered calcium carbonate which is obtained by pulverizing natural calcium carbonate or a precipitated calcium carbonate which is obtained by reacting calcium hydroxide with carbon dioxide gas in aqueous solution and subsequently collecting the precipitate can be used.In the case of a precipitated calcium carbonate, the secondary cohesion of the calcium carbonate can be prevented by adding surfactants or higher fatty acids to the reaction system.Alternatively, powdered or precipitated calcium carbonate fillers whose surface has been treated with surfactants, higher fatty acids, or silane coupling agents are applicable. In the case of powdered calcium carbonate, the average particle size normally ranges from 1 to 20 micrometers while the average particle size for the precipitated calcium carbonate normally ranges from 0.03 to 10 micrometres. Although any calcium carbonate within this range of average particle sizes is applicable, when the particle size is too large, a large amount of component B is needed in order to achieve mixing stability between component A and component. D . Therefore, it is preferable to use a calcium carbonate with an average particle size of 0.03 to 5 micrometres. If too little component B is compounded, the mixing stability between component A and component D is impaired and the adhesive performance during curing is reduced. If too much is added, the viscosity of the compositions becomes too high and the workability becomes poor.Therefore, the proportion of component B must be 1 to 400 parts by weight and preferably 10 to 300 parts by weight per 100 parts by weight of component A . Another reason for the use of calcium carbonate as the filler of the compositions of this invention is that the flow characteristics of the compositions can then be freely adjusted. If a n frcing silica filler such as finely divided silica is used as the filler, the compositions before curing become nonflowable thixotropic upon mlxing component D so that the adjustment of free flowability becomes extremely difficult. If calcium carbonate is used, the advantage accrues of little change in the flowability upon the addition of component D . Moreover, if an appropriate amount of a reinforcing silica filler is added, the flow characteristics of the compositions of this invention remain freely variable. The component can be used in the form of a single type or a mixture of two or more types can be used. The organosilicon compound containing an average at least two silicon bonded hydrolyzable groups per molecule, component C is an essential component for forming a network structure by a condensation reaction with the silanol groups in component A or the silanol groups produced by the hydrolysis of silicon bonded hydrolyzable groups in component A in other words, for the curing of the compositions of this invention. If component A contains two silanol groups or silicon bonded hydrolyzable groups per molecule, more than an average of two silicon bonded hydrolyzable groups is required in component C . Therefore, three or more silicon bonded hydrolyzable groups per molecule are required.If component A contains three or more silanol groups per molecule, the presence of an average of to silicon bonded hydrolyzable groups per molecule of component C is sufficient. Of course, in the latter case, an organosilicon compound containing three or more silicon bonded hydrolyzable groups per molecule can be present. Component C can be used as a single type or as a mixture of two or more types having different numbers of silicon bonded hydrolyzable groups per molecule or as a mixture of two or more types having different types of silicon bonded hydrolyzable groups. The expression used in the claim, an organosilicon compound containing at least an average of two silicon bonded hydrolyzable groups per molecule, should be interpreted as an organosilicon compound containing at least two silicon bonded hydrolyzable groups per molecule if component C consists of only one type of organosilicon compounds. The exclusion of the compositions in which the total number of silanol groups or silicon bonded hydrolyzable groups per molecule of component A and silicon bonded hydrolyzable groups per molecule of component C is 4.0 or less because curing becomes impossible. The hydrolyzable groups in component C are not critical as long as they are functional groups which can produce silanol groups by hydrolysis. Examples of these groups are as follows alkoxy, acyloxy, alkenoxy, amino, ketoximo, aminoxy and amido. The alkoxy groups are expressed by Si O R1 where R1 represents monovalent hydrocarbon radicals or halogenated hydrocarbontradicals and examples are methoxy, ethoxy, n propoxy, i sopropoxy, and methoxyethoxy. The acyloxy groups are expressed byEMI8.1 R1is the same as above and examples are acetoxy, octanoyloxy and benzoyloxy.The alkenoxy groups are expressed byEMI9.1 where R2 is R1 or a hydrogen atom and the three R2 groups can be identical or different orEMI9.2 where R3 represents substituted or unsubstituted C2 diva lent hydrocarbon groups orEMI9.3 where R2 and R3 are the same as above orEMI9.4 where R2 and R3 are the same as above. Examples are as follows propenoxy, isopropenoxy, butenoxy and 5,5 dimethylcyclohexane l one 3 yloxy. The amino groups are expressed byEMI9.5 where R3 is the same as above.Examples are as follows N, N diethylamino, N ethylamino,N propylamino, N butylamino, N cyclohexylamino and N,N nethylcyclohexylamino. The ketoximo groups are expressed by Si O N C R2 where R1 is the same as above and the two R1 can be identical or different or Si O N C R3 where R3 is the same as above. Examples are as follows dimethyl ketoximo, methyl ethyl ketoximo, diethyl ketoximo and butanoximo. The aminoxy groups are expressed by Si O N R2 where R1 is the same as above orEMI10.1 where R3 is the same as above. Examples are as follows N,N dimethylaminoxy, N,N methylethylaminoxy andN,N diethylaminoxy. The anido groups are expressed byEMI10.2 where Rs is the same as above orEMI10.3 wherein R is the same as above. Examples are as follows N methylacetamido, N ethylacetamido, N butylacetamido, N methyl n butyramido,N benzylacetamido and epsilon caprolactamido. The silicon bonded hydrolyzable groups in each molecule of component C can be identical or two or more different functional groups. Moreover, these functional groups can be bonded to the same silicon atom or to different silicon atoms. The other atomic valences of the silicon atoms in component C which are not bonded to the above mentioned hydrolyzable groups are satisfied by the carbon atoms of unsubstituted or substituted hydrocarbon groups or by oxygen atoms in siloxane bonds. Generally, monovalent hydrocarbon groups are used however, divalent or higher valent hydrocarbon groups are also applicable. Examples of the monovalent unsubstituted hydrocarbon radicals are as follows alkyl radicals such as methyl, ethyl, propyl and octyl alkenyl radicals, such as vinyl and allyl and aryl radicals such as phenyl and naphthyl.Examples of monovalent halogenated hydrocarbon groups are as follows halogenated hydrocarbon radicals such as chloromethyl, 3 chloropropyl, and 3,3, 3 trifluoropropyl amino substituted hydrocarbon radicals such as 3 aminopropyl and fl 2 aminoethyl 3 aminopropyl epoxy substituted hydrocarbon radicals such as 3 glycidylpropyl mercapto substituted hydrocarbon radicals such as 3 mercaptopropyl ester substituted hydrocarbon radicals such as beta acetoxyethyl and gamma methacryloxypropyl and ether substituted hydrocarbon radicals such as beta methoxyethyl. Two or more silicon atoms can be bonded to divalent or higher valent hydrocarbon radicals. A silane monomer is the most common component C . However, polysiloxanes with low degrees of polymerization are also commonly used. Component C can be a single compound or a combination of the above mentioned organosilicon compounds according to the applications and purposes of the compositions. For example, alkoxy containing silicon compounds selected from among tetraethyl silicate, tetra n propyl silicate, and ethyl polysilicate can be used in order to increase the curing rate and obtain honogeneous curing characteristics. In order to obtain a low modulus and high ductility silicone rubber, a combination of several types of methylcyclosiloxanes containing 2 to 4 N,N diethylaminoxy groups per molecule can be appropriately used.In order to obtain a single component type room temperature curable composition, that is, compositions which can be stored in the uncured state in a sealed container for long periods and which cure when extruded into the atmosphere, methyltriacetoxysilane, vinyltriacetoxysilane and ethyltriacetoxysilane are applicable.In order to obtain a single component type room temperature curable composition which does not corrode iron and base materials, the following compounds are applicable methyltri cyclohexylamino silane, methyltri dimethyl ketoximo silane, vinyltri dimethyl ketoximo silane, vinyltri methyl ethyl ketoximo silane, methyltri isopropenoxy silane, vinyltri isopropenoxy silane and methyltri N ethylacetamido silane. In order to obtain single component type compositions which cure to a low nodulus high ductility silicone rubber, combinations of the above mentioned organosilanes or organopolysiloxanes containing 3 4 hydrolyzable silicon bonded groups per molecule with the following compounds are applicable dimethyldi N methylacetamido silane, methylvinyldi N methylacetanido silane, dimethyldi N,N diethylaminoxy silane, methylvinyldi N,N diethylaminoxy silane or methylvinyldi N cyclohexylamino silane. Such single component type room temperattire urable compositions should contain at least one molecule of organosilicon compound C per hydroxyl radical of the polydiorganosiloxane of A and the amount of C can be up to and include 15 parts by weight per 100 parts by weight of A . Component C is added in an amount sufficient to carry out room temperature curing of the compositions of this invention. The amount depends upon the number and types of functional groups and the molecular weight of components A and C . If component A possesses three or more hydrolyzable silicon bonded groups per molecular, component C is not necessarily added However, the addition of component C is essential if component A is selected from among compounds which have not been specified as above. In this case, it is desirable to add component C in an amount such that hydrolyzable silicon bonded groups are present in an amount equivalent to or exceeding the amount of silanol groups or silicon bonded hydrolyzable groups in component A .If the amount of addition falls below this range, curing is insufficient and the postcure mechanical properties become impaired. Component D is the characteristic component of this invention. It functions to prevent contamination of the silicone rubber itself which is produced by the curing of the compositions of this invention and contamination around the base material when the compositions are used as sealants.This function is achieved when a molecule of component D simultaneously exhibits both hydrophilicity due to the presence of alcoholic hydroxyl groups or carboxyl groups and an affinity for component A by other organic radicals. Generally, the proportion of organic groups bonded to the alcoholic hydroxyl groups or the carboxyl groups ranges from 0.28 to 50 based on the total number of organic groups. The organic groups bonded to the alcoholic hydroxyl groups or carboxyl groups can be present at any position on the molecule. Generally, these groups are present at the ends of the molecule or on side chains or both. Actual examples of the organic groups bonded to the alcoholic hydroxyl groups are as follows CH2OH, CH2CH2OH, CH2CH2CH2OH, EMI14.1 CH2 6OH, CH2CH2CH CH20H 2, CH2CH2COOCH2CH2OH. Actual examples of the organic groups bonded to the carboxyl groups are as follows CH2CH2COOH, EMI14.2 CH2CH2CH2COOH, CH2CH2CH COOH 2 and CH2 8 COOH. This component can possess both organic groups bonded to alcoholic hydroxyl groups and organic groups bonded to carboxyl groups. The molecular structure of this component can be linear, branched chain, cyclic or network. It is sufficient that the degree of polymerization be 2 or greater and the upper limit is not critical as long as the component can be used in liquid for or as a paste at room temperature. The organic groups other than the organic groups bonded to the alcoholic hydroxyl groups or carboxyl groups in this component are conventionally knon substituents in orgaropolysiloxanes such as alkyl, alkenyl, aryl, and halogenated alkyl. Common examples are methyl, vinyl, phenyl, 3,3,3 trifluoropropy1, 2 phenylethyl, octyl, and dodecyl. In particular, methyl is most preferred. This component can be easily produced by the addition of vinyl containing alcohols, unsaturated fatty acids or polyhydric alcohol partial esters to the silicon bonded hydrogen atoms in an organohydrogenpolysiloxane in the presence of a platinum catalyst. Alternatively, it can be produced by substituting the halogen atoms in a halogenated organopolysiloxane with hydroxyl groups. The amount of addition of this component declines as the molecular weight declines and the number of hydroxyl groups and carboxyl groups increases. If too little is added, the effect of preventing soiling in and around the cured silicone rubber is poor. If too much is added, the adhesion is impaired. Thus, the amount of addition ranges from 0.5 to 50 parts by weight and preferably from 0.5 to 20 parts by weight per 100 parts by weight of component A . The compositions of this invention can be produced by simply mixing components tA to D to homogeneity. If an appropriate compound is selected as component C and the components are mixed in a moisture free container, a single component type room temperature curable organopolysiloxane composition is produced. If components A and C are packaged separately, a double component type room temperature curable organopolysiloxane composition which is mixed immediately before curing can be produced. If desirable, curing accelerating catalysts can be added in addition to component A to D in the compositions of this invention. The curing accelerating catalysts can be added in advance to a mixture of components A to D or can be packaged separately and added immediately before curing. Metal salts of carboxylic acids and metal alcoholates are normally used as curing accelerating catalysts. Actual examples of metal carboxylates are as follows diorganotin dicarboxylates such as dibutyltin diacetate, dibutyltin dioctoate, and dibutyltin dilaurate and other carboxylates such as tin octoate, iron octoate, and zinc octoate.Concrete examples of metal alcoholates are as follows tetra n butyl titanate, tetraisopropyl titanate, tetraoctyl titanate, aluminum triethoxide, aluminum tributoxide, dipropyl titanate bis acetylacetonate , and dibutyl titanate bis ethylacetocetate Moreover, the following compounds and additives can be added to the compositions of this invention polysiloxanes such as silanol terminated polydiorganosiloxanes whose viscosity at 250C is less than 0.0003 m s polydiorganosiloxanes in which one end is capped with a triorganosiloxy groups and the other end is a silanol group or silicon bonded hydrolyzable group, and polydiorganosiloxane gums reinforcing fillers such as fumed silica, precipitated silica, surface hydrophobicized fumed silica, and surface hydrophobicized precipitated silica extending fillers such as diatomaceous earth, fine quartz powder, and carbon black pigments such as titanium oxide and iron oxide, flame retardants such as platinum compounds and metal carbonates heat stabilizers such as cerium oxide, cerium hydroxide, and fumed titanium dioxide, and antifungal agent. In order to improve further the effect of soiling prevention around the cured silicone rubber, hydrophilic polymers such as polyoxyalkylene compounds, polyoxyalkylene organopolysiloxane block copolymers and sorbitol derivatives and surfactants can be added within a range in which the adhesion is not impaired. Because these materials can adversely effect the adhesion as shown in the examples, the amounts, if any, should be experimentally determined for each specific composition to ensure that the properties are acceptable for the specific utility. The compositions of this invention are cured at room temperature to produce silicone rubber. Since the cured rubber itself is not easily soiled and other materials around the cured rubber are not contaminated and the original adhesion is maintained, the compositions of this invention can be widely used as sealing materials, caulking materials, coating materials and bonding agents. Examples of this invention are described in the following. Parts in the examples denotes parts by weight. The viscosity data and other experimental data were determined at 250C. Me in the chemical formulas represents the methyl radical.Examples 1 through 3 A mixture was prepared by mixing 100 parts an alpha, omega dihydroxypolydimethylsiloxane with a viscosity of 0.015 m s and 10 parts of an alcoholic functional polymethylsiloxane shown in Table 1.Subsequently, 110 parts of a calcium carbonate filler with an average particle size of 1.4 micrometres was added to the mixture and a homogeneous composition was prepared. 5 parts of n Propyl orthosilicate and 0.3 parts dibutyltin dilaurate were added to the composition obtained above and the resulting mixture was blended until a homogeneous mixture was obtained and a defoaming treatment was then carried out. Test specimens for the tensile adhesion test based on JIS A5758 were prepared using the compositions prepared above and a glass whose surface had been treated with a silane primer, aluminum, and coated aluminum as adhesion substrates. The compositions were also filled into a joint width 20 mm, depth 10 mm formed by facing two sheets of enamel finished iron plate and cured at 250C.The cured product was left standing outdoors at an angle of 750. After curing at 250C for one month, a sample was immersed in warm water at 500C for 7 days. The results of the tensile adhesion test for the tensile adhesion test specirnents and the results of an examination of the degree of soiling of the surface of the enamel finished iron plates which had been left outdoors and of the sealant surface after 6 months are presented in Table 1. Comparison Example 1 A composition was prepared using the polyether polysiloxane copolymer shown in Table 1 instead of the alcoholic functional polymethylsiloxane used in Examples 1 through 3.The same tests as in Examples 1 through 3 were conducted. The results are presented in Table 1.Comparison Example 2 A composition was prepared by adding 110 parts of the alpha, omega dihydroxypolydimethylsiloxane instead of the alcoholic functional polymethylsiloxane used inExamples 1 through 3. The same tests as in Example 1 though 3 were conducted. The results are presented in Table 1. Comparison Example 3 Enamel finished iron plates twice as large as those used in Example 1 through 3 were left standing outdoors. The degree of soiling after 6 moths was examined and the results are presented inTable 1. Alcoholic Functional Polvmettylsiloxanes Shown in c Table 1Example 1Example 2Example 3EMI19.1 Comparison Polyether polysiloxane copolymer Example 1EMI19.2 ComparisonExample 2 NoneComparisonExample 3 None Table 1Results of examinationTensile Adhesion of degree of soilingAlcoholic functional Adhesion Max stress cohesive silicone enamelpolymethylsiloxane substrate kb. cm2 failure rubber finished surface iron surfaceExample 1 glass 7.6 90 slightly slightly aluminum 7.3 80 stained stained coated aluminum 7.4 80Example 2 glass 7.3 100 aluminum 7.4 100 coated aluminum 7.0 100 slightly slightly stained stainedExample 3 glass 7.8 100 aluminum 7.7 95 coated aluminum 7.0 100 slightly slightly stained stainedComparison Example 1 glass 1.2 0 aluminum 3.5 0 coated aluminum 1.1 0 slightly slightly stained stainedComparison Example 2 glass 9.6 100 blackish many aluminum 10.2 100 brown stain coated over entire aluminum 9.5 100 surfaceComparison Example 3 slightly stained Examples 4 through 6 A mixture was prepared by mixing 100 parts of an alpha, omega dihydroxypolydimethylsiloxane 2 with a viscosity of 0.004 m s and 10 parts of a carboxylic acid functional polymethylsiloxane shown in Table 2.Subsequently, 100 parts of a calcium carbonate filler with an average particle size of 0.05 micrometers was added to the mixture and a homogeneous composition was obtained. 2 parts of 1,5 bis diethylaminoxy 3,7 diethyl 1,3,5,7 tetra methyltetracyclosiloxane and 0.3 parts of 1,3,5, 7 tetra diethylaminoxy 1,3,5, 7 tetramethyl tetracyclosiloxane were carefully blended without foaming to obtain a homogeneous mixture. The same tests as in Examples 1 through 3 were conducted.The results are presented in Table 2. Carboxylic Acid Functional Polymethylsiloxane Shown in Table 2Example 4Example 5Example 6EMI22.1 Table 2Results of ExaminationTensile Adhesion of Degree of SoilingAdhesion Max stress Cohesive Silicone Enamel substrate kg. cm2 failure rubber finish surface iron surfaceExample 4 glass 9.8 95 slightly slightly aluminum 9.6 95 stained stained coated aluminum 9.8 100Example 5 glass 9.6 100 aluminum 9.7 100 coated aluminum 9.7 100 slightly slightly stained stainedExample 6 glass 10.1 100 aluminum 10.5 100 coated aluminum 10.3 100 slightly slightly stained stained Examples 7 through 10 A mixture was prepared by mixing 100 parts an alpha, omega dihydroxypolydimethylsiloxane with a viscosity of 0.03 m2 s, 5 parts the alcoholic functional polymethylsiloxane used in Example 1 and 110 parts of a calcium carbonate filler with an average particle size of 1.4 micrometres were blended to give a homogeneous composition. 8 parts of an organosilicon compound shown in Table 3 and curing accelerator shown in Table 3, if desirable, were blended into the homogeneous composition under nitrogen gas to obtain a homogeneous mixture. The volatiles were removed in vacuo. The same tests as in Examples 1 through 3 were conducted. The results are shown in Table 3.Example 11 A mixture was prepared by mixing 100 parts of an alpha,omega methyldimethoxysiloxypolydimethyl 2 siloxane with a viscosity of 0.015 m s, 10 parts of the alcoholic functional polymethylsiloxane used inExample 1 and 110 parts of a calcium carbonate filler with an average particle size of 1.4 micrometers were blended to give a homogeneous composition. Subsequently, 2 parts of dibutyltin dilaurate was added and blended under nitrogen gas to obtain a homogeneous composition. Defoaming was carried out in vacuo. The same tests as in Examples 1 through 3 were conducted using the composition prepared above. The results are presented inTable 3. Organosilicon Compounds and CuringAccelerators for Examples 7 through 11 Organosilicon Curing Example Compound Accelerator 7 vinyltriacetoxyw silane 8 vinyltri methyl ethyl ketoximo silane 9 methyltri methyl dibutyltin ethyl ketoximo dioctoate silane 0.16 parts 10 methyltri tetrabutyl methoxysilane titanate 2 parts 11 dibutyltin dilaurate 2 parts TABLE 3Results of examinationTensile Adhesion of degree of soilingAdhesion Max stress cohesive silicone enemelsubstrate kg cm2 failure rubber finished surface iron surfaceExample 7 glass 7.8 100 slightly slightly aluminum 7.6 100 stained stained coated aluminum 7.6 100Example 8 glass 7.5 100 aluminum 7.5 95 coated aluminum 7.7 100 slightly slightly stained stainedExample 9 glass 7.3 90 aluminum 7.5 100 coated aluminum 7.6 95 slightly slightly stained stainedExample 10 glass 5.5 80 aluminum 5.0 70 coated aluminum 5.2 80 slightly slightly stained stainedExample 11 glass 4.5 90 aluminum 4.8 90 coated aluminum 5.0 95 slightly slightly stained stained