# Method of reinforcing water hardenable inorganic materials.

## Abstract
Method of reinforcing water hardenable inorganic materials with polyalkene fibres or fibre networks, the polyalkene being stabilized by a metal phosphonate or metal phosphite with the formula

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Method of reinforcing water hardenable inorganic materials with polyalkene fibres or fibre networks using one or more stabilizers characterized in that in the polyalkene is incorporated a stabilizer consisting of a metal phosphonate or metal phosphite with the formulaEMI6.1 in which R1 is an alkyl group with 1 6 carbon atoms, R2 is a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group with 1 6 carbon atoms, n takes a value 1 4, y is the ratio of the valencies of the metal atom and the organic phosphonate or phosphine group, x is the residue 0 , OR3, or R4, where R3 is an alkyl, cycloalkyl, or aryl group with 1 30 carbon atoms and R4 is an alkyl, cycloalkyl, or aryl group with 1 30 carbon atoms, and M is a metal. 2. Method according to claim 1, characterized in that the metal is selected fros the group comprising sodium, potassium, magnesium, calcium, boron, chromium, manganese, iron, cobalt, nickel, copper, zinc, aluminium, and tin. 3 Method according, to clam I or 2, characterized in that the metal is selected from the group comprising calcium, cobalt, nickel, and zinc. 4. Method according to anyone of claims L 3, characterized in that R1 is a tertiary butyl group and R2 is hydrogen or a methyl, ethyl, ot tertiary butyl group 5 Method according to anyone of claims 1 4, characterized in that n is equal to 1. 6. Method according to anyone of claims 1 5, characterized in that x is 0 , OR3, or R4, where R3 is an alkyl group with 1 4 C atoms and R4 is an ethyl, cyclohexyl, or phenyl, group. 7. Method according to anyone of claims 1 6, characterized in that the metal phosphonate or metal phosphite is incorporated in a quaur tity of between to 0.02 0.5 wt X with respect to the polyalkene. 8. Method according to claim 7, characterized in that the metal phosphonate or metal phosphita is incorporated in a quantity of between to 0.05 0.25 wt t with respect to the polyalkene. 9. Method according to anyone of claims 1 8, characterized in that a phenolic antioxidant is also incorporated in the polyalkene. 10. Method according to anyone of claims t 9, characterized in that the polyalkene consists principally of propylene. 11. Method according to anyone of clams 1 10, characterized in that the water hardenable inorganic material is cement. 12. Method according to claim 11, characterized in that the cement is Portland cement.

## Description
METEOD OF REINFORCING WATER HARDENABLE INORGANIC MATERIALS The invention relates to a method of reinforcing water hardenable inorganic materials with polyalkene fibres or fibre networks, using One or more stabilizers. A method of this type is known from European Patent Applicar tion No. 3245, laid open to public inspection, in which preferenca is expressed for a stabilizer combination consisting of a metal deactivator and an antioxidant. Zt has been found, however, that such a combination of stabilizers cannot maintain the mechanical properties of the polyalkene fibres at the desired. level for an adequate period. Sinca water bardenable inorganic materials in the hardened state are mainly used in the construction of buildings, particularly in the form of slabs, they must retain their mechanical properties for a very long time. The polyalkene fibres must therefore show no significant signs of degradation after a period of at Least decades. The aim of the present invention is eo provide a method whereby waver hardenable inorganic materials are reinforced with polyalkene fibres which are stabilized in such a way that they retain their mechanical properties for a very long time. According to the invention, this aja can be achieved by incor porating into the. polyalkena a stabilizer consisting of a metal phopho nate of metal phosphite having the formulaEMI1.1 in which RL is an alkyl group with 1 6 carbon atoms,R2 is a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group with 1 6 carbon atoms, n takes a value 1 4, y is the ratio of the valences of the metal atom and the organic phosphonate or phosphite group, x is the residue 0 , OR3, or R4, where R3 is an alkyl, cycloalkyl, or aryl group with 1 30 carbon atoms and R4 is an alkyl, cycloalkyl, or aryl group with 1 30 carbon atoms, andM is a metal. The use of metal phosphonates or metal phosphites for the stabilization of alkene polymers is in itself knows, although the very large number of stabilizers or stabilizer combinations that have been proposed for this purpose includes stabilizers that give much better results than metal phosphonates or metal phosphites when used in polyalkenes. For example, it is known that in polypropylene even a high concentration of a metal phosphonate gives only about 85 Z of the stability conferred by a carefully selected phenolic antiosidant. Metal phosphonates or metal phosphites are also used in cases in which a high light stability is required in addition to thermal stability. Another use for them is as additives for coating polyalkene fibres. When polyalkene fibres are used to reinforce water hardenableinorganic materials the light stability ani the possibility of dying are of no consequence. It is therefore particularly surprising to find that the use of metal phosphonates or metal phosphites in polyalkene fibres incor porated in water hardenable inorganic materials gives unexpectedly much better results with regard. to stability, particularly the long term stability at low temperatures, than do the customary phenolic stabili zers wich are superior in other applications. The metals in the metal phosphonates or metal phosphites are preferably chosen from the group comprising sodium, potassium, magnesium, calcium, boroa, chromium, manganese, iron, cobalt, nickel, copper, zinc, aluminium, and tin. They are more preferably chosen from the group comprising calcium, cobalt, nickel, and zinc, nickel being particulary preferred. The most preferred metal phosphonates or metal phosphites have a structure represented by the general formula given above, in which R1 is a tertiary butyl group and R2 is Hydrogen, methyl, ethyl or a tertiary butyl group. In a particularly preferred. embodiment n is equal to L.It is advantageous if x is an OR3 or R4 group, R3 being an alkyl group with 1 4 C atoms. Mixtures of such compounds can also be used. As stated before, the metal phosphonates and metal phosphites are effective at the relatively low concentrations of 0.02 0.5 wt X with respect to the polyalkene. These are therefore the preferred concentrations, particular preference being given to concentrations of 0.05 0.25 wt Z. In addition to the necessary metal phosphonates and metal phosphites, other conventional stabilizers may be incorporated in the polyalkene, the greatest preference being given to the phenolic antioxidants, which may be present in quantities of 0.01 1.OQ wt Z with respect to the polyalkene. The polyalkene of the fibres may be polyethene, polypropene, polybutene, or mixtures of these polymers, or related copolymers such a ethene hexene copolymers and propene ethene copolymers. In particular, it has been found that, when combined with the said metal phosphonates and phosphites, a mixture consisting predominantly of polppropene with a minor proportion of polyethene, preferably with less than 25 wt Z of the polyethene, with respect to the polyalkene mixture, gives considerably better results in water hardenable inorganic materials than do polyalkene mixtures that contain conventionaL stabilizers such a phenolic antioxidants see the example . It may be seen from the example that the metal phosphonates improve the long term stability of the polyalkene fibres, particularly at lower temperatures. The water hardenable inorganic material may be a knows material such as plaster or cement, Portland cement being the mo8t preferred material. The polyalkene c sn be incorporated into the water hardenable matcrials in a variety of forms and states. For example, it is possible to use loose fibres made by spinning or by means of shearing forces in a precipitating polyalkene solution. The fibres can also be made by the sudden expansion of a polyalkene solution. To facilitate the incorporation of these discrete fibres into the mass of watet and waterhardenable material, hereafter ref erred to as mortar, the fibres may be treated, for example, with surfactants and the surface map be modified with inorganic particles or may be made hydrophilic by chemical and or physical treatment auch as oxidation and corona discharge. In the preferred arrangement, however, the fibres are inter connected to form networks, which msy be treated as described above. The most economic method of forming such networks is described in EuropeanPatent Application No. 324f, laid open to public inspection. Herein the polyalkene is extruded to a film which is stretched out, fibrillated, and pulled out to form networks.Fibres obtained from these networks by cow 4nuting the networks by chopping or cutting may also advantageously be used. In addition to the said stabilizers the polyalkenes may con tain other additives such as lubricants, fillers, and substances thaw improve the adhesion between the fibres snd the wÅater hardenable inorga nic material. Example A propene ethene periodic block copolymer with an ethene co tent of 9 wt and a melt index 230 2 1.0 gllO min was mixed with one of the three different stabilizer comblsatious defined below and 8pun intro filaments of 10 g 9OOQ m. The filaments were cast in a more4t consisting of Portland cement an water with a uater cement factor of 0.3 and the mortar was allowed to set. The end of the filament protruding from the set material was loaded with a weight of O.OL N and the entire arrangement was placed in practically stationary air in an oven at 80 C, 100 C, and 120 C. The three stabilizer cvabination3 were as follows Stabilizer 1 0.1 wt of nickel bis o ethyl 3,5 di tert.butyl 4 hydroxybenzyl phosphonate 0.1 wt of tris 2,4 di tert.butylphenol phosphite. Stabilizer 2 0.1 wt of calcium bis 3,5 di tert.butyl 4 hydroxybenzyl monoethyl phosphonate 0.1 wt of tris 2,4 di tert.butylphenol phosphite. Stabilizer 3 comparison example 0.1 wt of 2,6 di tert.butyl 4 methylphenol 0.15 wt Z of pentaerithrityl tetrakis 3 3,5 di tert.butyl 4 hydroxy phenol propionate. The following table gives the tine in hours that elapsed before the filament broke, for the various stabilizer combinations at different temperatures.Table 80 C 100 C 120 CStabilizer 1 8500 880 40Stabilizer 2 2100 236 21Stabilizer 3 240 124 21