# Gutter profile for a glasshouse as well as a gutter made from it.

## Abstract
The present invention relates to a gutter profile 11 for a greenhouse, which profile instead of the known flat V shaped form has side portions 12, which by means of an inward bend 17 are lying more close to the center plane of the profile and extend upwardly towards the edge flanges 13, so that a profile is obtained which is higher and narrower than the known profile and has the drip edges 18 of the edge flanges 13 above the inward bend 17, so that condensation water droplets falling down at the edge 18 are still collected at the lowermost portion 14, the higher and narrower shape of the profile giving it a greater moment of resistance.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Gutter profile for a greenhouse, which profile lies between the roofs and has been connected to the supporting struction, which profile, seen in cross section, comprises a downwardly and towards the center tapering lower portion which at the sides which are turned away from the center via upwardly extending sideportions merges into upwardly inclined and outwardly directed edge flanges, characterized in that the side portions are bent towards the center that far, that the edge flanges joining them with their outer edges substantially ly vertically above the place where the inward bend of the side portions starts. 2. Gutter profile according to claim 1, characterized in that the side portions have vertical parts between the inner edges of the edge flanges and the inner edges of the inward bend. 3. Gutter profile according to claim 1 or 2, in which the profile at least at one end has been shifted over a distance cor responding with the wall thickness, characterized in that said shift is only present in the lower portion lying below the inward bend. 4. Gutter for a greenhouse, comprising interconnected gutter profiles according to claims 1, 2 or 3, characterized in that said profiles at the side portions are interconnected by means of strips connectable by means of bolts, said strips below the place of con nection with the side portion have a downwardly extending portion with a profile which fits against the inner side of the inward bend and the adjacent portion of the lower portion.

## Description
Gutter profile for a greenhouse as well as a gutter composed from it. The invention relates to a gutter profile for a greenhouse or the like housing, which profile is located between the roofs and connected to the supporting structure, which profile, seen in a crose section comprises a downwardly and towards the center taper ing lower portion which at the sides turned away from the center via upwardly extending side portions merges into upwardly inclined and outwardly directed edge flanges. Such a gutter profile is generally known. This known gutter profile has a relatively small height and a large width. Such a profile has a small moment of resistance. Due to its width it gives a relatively large shadow. It is common practice to apply below the lower portion of such a gutter profile, accordingly in the interior of the greenhouse, a small condensation gutter collecting the droplets formed upon the lowermost portion of the gutter profile and generated by condemn sation against the lower side of said profile. However, condemn sation water formed upon the adjacent glass sheet cannot reach said condensation gutter notwithstanding the smooth shape of said known gutter profile, because it drops down earlier. This happens at the location of the gutter edges or profiles by means of which the glas6rpanes are connected upon the edge flanges of the gutter proe file. Said droplets fall down and create damage to products, greenhouse construction and or apparatuses. Purpose of the invention is to provide a gutter profile avoids ing said objections. According to the invention this is achieved in that the side parts are bent towards the center that far, that the edge flanges which join said parts with their outer edges ly substantially verr tically above the place where the inward bend of the side parts starts. The shape given according to the invention to the gutter profile, makes this profile less broad and more high. Due to this it has a larger moment of resistance, so that the distance between the supports can be larger. This changes the entire construction of the greenhouse because one needs a lesser number of glass rods and a lesser number of frameworks whereas the dimensions of the glass plate easily are adaptable. This easily can lead to a reduction in material of 25X. The narrower profile gives less shadow whereas condensation running downwardly along the underside of the glass panes and fal ling downwardly at the gutter edges again falls upon the inward bent portion and subsequently runs along the underside of the profile towards the lowermost portion where it can be collected in a condensation gutter. The profile according to the invention has the same water con.tents as the known profile and can be better isolated against loss of heat by clamping into it a strip of synthetic material. Preferably the profile has been shaped such that the side parts between the inner edges of the edge flanges and the inner edges of the inwardly curved portion have vertical parts. To join the known gutter profiles it is known to shift each profile at least at one end over a distance corresponding to the thickness of the wall. The other end of the joining gutter profile then by means of holes and bolts can be connected to the shifted portion such that the gutter bottoms of adjoining profiles ly in one plane. With the known relatively flat profile this shift forms no problem. With the profile according to the invention this shift is not very well possible. Accordingly according to the invention the shift only has been applied in the lower portion lying below the inwardly curved parts.The interconnection of the profile length then can take place in the usual way but it is preferred to perform the connection moreover by means of strips connectable by means of bolts and which according to the invention below their place of interconnection with the side portion of the profile do have a downwardly extending part which with the profile joins the inner side of the inwardly curved portion and the adjacent part of the lower portion of the profile. Flat strips for a direct connection of profiles are known in itself. With gutter shaped profiles they, however, are not desirable within the gutter portion because they promote the adherence of dirt. The invention offers the possibility of a direct connection of the profiles with the aid of the profiled strips which engage the inwardly curved portions or to do this with the aid of the said downwardly shifted part at one end and also offers the possibility to combine the two means of interconnection. Due to the fact that the strips are present in the upper portion of the gutter the risk of dirt collection is reduced whereas a very bending resistant conr nection still is possible. The invention will be further elucidated with reference to the drawings. Figure 1 shows in cross section the known profile. Figure 2 shows in cross section the profile according to the invention. Figure 3 shows in side view the coupling of two profile lengths and Figure 4 is a cross section according to the line IVLIV ofFigure 3. The known gutter profile shown in Figure 1 comprises a flatV shaped lower portion 1, inclined upwardly extending side portions 2 and edge flanges 3. This known profile is wide and relatively flat. Condensation water is collected at the lower part 4 of the flat V as well as at the location of the edges 5 where it drops downwardly immediately. The profile according to the invention shown in Figure 2 has a V shaped flat lower portion 11, side portions 12 and edge flanges 13. The lower portion 11 from the middle primarily extends at an angle of 16O with respect to the horizontal upwardly, which angle subsequently at 16 becomes more steep. This, however, is not a necessity. It does, however, improve the height of the profile and makes it somewhat smaller. At 17 the profile is bent inwardly to form the upwardly extending side portions 12, which in the shown example substantiale ly extend vertically. The inward bend, however, also can extend obliquely upwardly from 17 directly to the transition with the edge flange 13. The vertical portion, however, increases the bending resistance of the profile. The edge 18 in principle lies above the place 17 where the int ward bend starts and even a little bit further inwardly so that the mounting profile for the glass pane connected to it will have its dripping edge ábove the curve 17. By this one obtains that condemn sation water collected at the lower side of the glass pane also moves towards the lower edge 14. The interconnection of the profiles can take place in the way shown in Figures 3 and 4. Figure 3 shows an outer end 20 of one profile and an outer end 21 of another profile. The outer end 21 has a downwardly shifted lower portion 22. The connection takes place by means of bolts extending through holes 23, 24. Further the connection can take place by means of strips 25 and bolt holes 26, 27. As appears from Figure 4 as well as from the side view of Figure 3 the inward bend can be provided in that lower portion of the profile only which lies below the place 17 where the inward bend starts. Figure 4 shows that the strips 25 have a lower portion which fits exactly at 29 within the inner side of the inwardly bent porP tion and still has a downwardly extending leg 30 which lies against the upper surface of the lower portion. An interconnecting strip profiled in this way offers a connection with very large rigidity.Said strip can be applied alone which means without the inward bend and direct joint of the profiles 21 en 20, but also can be used in combination with the inward bend. Of course, one also can apply an interconnecting strip against the lower sides of directly joining profiles.