# 2 Aminophenol derivatives.

## Abstract
2 AMINOPHENOL derivatives of the general formula

## Claims
Designated States B ,CH LI,DE,FR,GB,IT,LU,NL,SE. CLAIMS 1. A 2 aminophenol derivative of the general formula EMI61.1 wherein Z represents a straight alkylene or alkenylene group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atom s , R1 represents a hydrogen atom, a halogen atom, a straight or branched chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atom s , a straight or branched chain alkoxy group containing from 1 to 4 carbon atom s or a group represented by general formula EMI61.2 whereinR4 represents a hydrogen atom or a brached chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atom s . , Rê represents a hydrogen atom, a straight or brached chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 4 carbon atom s or a group represented by a formula EMI61.3 R1 is attached to the 6th or 4th position of the benzene ring when RÚ is attached to the 6th position of the benzene ring, 2 COORê is attached to the 4th position of the benzene ring, and when RÚ is attached to the 4th position of the benzene ring, 2 COORê is attached to the 6th position of the benzene ring, with the exception of compounds wherein RÚ represents a hydrogen atom and is attached to the 6th position of the benzene ring, Z represents a methylene group and Rê represents hydrogen atom or a straight or brached chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 4 carbon atom s , and Z COORê is attached to the 4th position of the benzene ring or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof. 2. A compound according to claim 1 wherein is attached to the 6th position of the benzene ring, and Z COOR2 is attached to the 4th position of the benzene ring. 3. A compound according to claim 1 wherein R is attached to the 4th position of the ben ene ring, and Z COOR2 is attached to the 6th position of the benzene ring. 4. A compound according to claim 1 wherein Z represents an ethylene group, a vinylene group, n propylene group or n butadienylene group. 5. A compound according to claim 1 wherein RÚ represents a hydrogen atom, a chlorine atom, a methoxy group, a t butyl group, a phenylthio group or a 4 pentylphenylthio group. 6. A compound according to claim 1 wherein Rê represents a hydrogen atom, a methyl group , an ethyl group or 4 biphenylmethyl group. 7. A compound according to claim 1 which is 2 amino 6 2ethoxycarbonylvinyl phenol or hydrochloride thereof. 8. A compound according to claim 1 which is 2 amino 4 chloro6 2 ethoxycarbonylvinyl phenol or hydrochloride thereof. 9. A compound according to claim 1 which is 2 amino 4 chloro6 4 ethoxycarbonylbutadienyl phenol or hydrochloride thereof. 10. A compound according to claim 1 which is 2 amino 4 chloro6 3 methoxycarbonyl 1 propenyl phenol or hydrochloride thereof. 11. A compound according to claim 1 which is 2 amino 4 2 ethoxycarbonylethyl phenol or hydrochloride thereof. 12. A compound according to claim 1 which is 2 amino 4 2 ethoxycarbonylvinyl phenol or hydrochloride thereof. 13. A compound according to claim 1 which is 2 amino 6 metboxy 4 2 methoxycarbonylvinyl phenol or hydrochloride thereof. 14. A compound according to claim 1 which is 2 amino 4 2 ethoxycarbonylvinyl 6 methoxyphenol or hydrochloride thereof. 15. A compound according to claim 1 which is 2 amino 6 2 carboxyvinyl phenol or hydrochloride thereof. 16. A compound according to claim 1 which is 2 amino 4 t butyl 6 2 ethoxycarbonylvinyl phenol or hydrochloride thereof. 17. A compound according to claim 1 which is 2 amino 4 t butyl 6 2 ethoxycarbonylethyl phenol or hydrochloride thereof. 18. A compound according to claim 1 which is 2 amino 4 2 4 biphenylmethoxycarbonyl vinyl phenol or hydrochloride thereof. 19. A compound according to claim 1 which is 2 amino6 2 ethoxycarbonylvinyl 4 4 pentylphenylthio phenol or hydrochloride thereof. 20. A compound according to claim 1 which is 2 amino6 2 carboxyvinyl 4 4 pentylphenylthio phenol or hydrochloride thereof. 21. A compound accoridng to claim 1 which is 2 amino 6 2 ethoxycarbonylvinyl 4 phenylthiophenol or hydrochloride thereof. 22. A process for the preparation of 2 amino phenol derivative as claimed in claim 1 and conforming to the general formula EMI63.1 wherein all of the symbols represent the same meaning as in claim 1 1 osk pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts thereof, which comprises i selective reducing the nitro group, to an amino group, of a compound of the general formula EMI64.1 wherein Zê represents a straight alkanylene group containing from 2 to 6 carbon atoms, Rêa represents a hydrogen atom or a straight or brached chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 4 carbon ato n s , R represents the sane meaning as defined in claim I, and the attached positions of Pv and Zê COORêa apply correspondingly as the ones of B1 and Z COOR2 depicted in clain 1 . ii reducing the nitro group and the double hond s in Zê of a compound of the general formula IIa , to an amino group and a straight alkylene group respectively, at the same time, iii selective reducing the nitro group, to amino group, of a compound of the general formula EMI64.2 wherein all of the symbols represent the same meaning as defined in claim 1 or hereinbefore depicted, iv selective reducing the nitro group, to an amino group, of a compound of the general formula EMI65.1 wherein all of the symbols represent the same meaning as defined in claim 1 or hereinbefore depicted, v esterifying of a compound of the general formula I wherein R represents a hydrogen atom, or vi saponifying of a compound of the general formula I wherein R2 represents a straight or branched chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 4 carbon atom s or a group represented by a formula EMI65.2 23. A pharmaceutical composition for the prevention and the treatment of allergic tracheal and bronchial deseases or allergic lung diseases, allergic shocks or various allergic inflammations, or for the prevention and the treatment of various inflammations induced by prostaglandins, which comprises, as active ingredient, an effective amount of at least one compound of the general formula I depicted in claim 1, wherein all of the symbols represent the same meaning as depicted in claim 1, or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof, together with a pharmaceutical carrier or coating. Designated States ATCLAIMS 1. A process for the preparation of 2 aminophenol derivative of the general formula EMI66.1 wherein Z represents a straight alkylene or alkenylene group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atom s , RÚ represents a hydrogen atom, a halogen atom, a straight or branched chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atom s , a straight or branched chain alkoxy group containing from 1 to 4 carbon atom s or a group represented by general formula EMI66.2 whereinR4 represents a hydrogen atom or a straight or brached chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atom s . , Rê represents a hydrogen atom, a straight or branched chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 4 carbon atom s or a group represented by a formula EMI66.3 Bl is attached to the 6th or 4th position of the benzene ring when is attached to the 6th position of the benzene ring, Z COOR2 is attached to the 4th position of the benzene ring, and when B1 is attached to the 4th position of the benzene ring, Z COOR2 is attached to the 6th position of the benzene ring, with the exception of compounds wherein RÚ represents a hydrogen atom and is attached to the 6th position of the benzene ring, Z represents methylene group and Rê represents a hydrogen atom a straight or brached chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 4 carbon atom s , and Z COoR2 is attached to the 4th position of the benzene ring 1, or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof, which i selective reducing the nitro group, to an amino group, of a compound of the general formula EMI67.1 wherein z2 represents a straight alkenylene group containing from 2 to 6 carbon atoms, Rêa represents a hydrogen atom or a straight or brached chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 4 carbon atom s , R1 represents the same meaning as defined in claim 1, and the attached positions ofB1 and Z2 COOR2a apply correspondingly as the ones of R1 and Z COORê 2 ii reducing the nitro group and the double bond s in z2 of a compound of the general formula IIa , to an amino group and a straight alkylene group respectively, at the same time, iii selective reducing the nitro group, to amino group, of a compound of the general formula EMI67.2 therein all of the symbols represent the same meaning as defined above iv selective reducing the nitro group, to an amino group, of a compound of the general formula EMI68.1 therein all of the symbols represent the same meaning as defined in claim 1 or hereinbefore depicted , v esterifying of a compound of the general formula I wherein R2 represents a hydrogen atom, or vi saponifying of a compound of the general formula I wherein B2 represents a straight or branched chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 4 carbon atom s or a group represented by a formula EMI68.2 2. A process according to claim 1 wherein B1 is attached to the 6th position of the benzene ring, and Z COOR2 is attached to the 4th position of the benzene riq. 3. A process according to claim 1 wherein B1 is attached to the 4th position of the benzine ring, and Z COOR2 is attached to the 6th position of the benzene rizg. 4. A process according to claim 1 wherein Z represents an ethylene group, a lene group, n propylene group or n butadienyiene group. B1 5. A process according to claim 1 wherein R1 represents a hydrogen atom, a chlorine atom, a methoxy group, a t butyl group, a phenylthio group or a 4 pentylphenylthio group. 6. A process according to claim 1 wherein Rêrepresents a hydrogen atom, a methyl groin , an ethyl group or 4 biphenylmethyl group. 7. A process according to claim 1 which is 2 amino 6 2 ethoxycarbonylvinyl phenol or hydrochloride thereof. 8. A processac ording to claim 1 which is 2 amino 4 chloro 6 2 ethoxycarbonylvinyl phend or hydrochloride thereof. 9. Aprocess according to claim 1 which is 2 amino 4 chloro6 4 ethoxycarbonylbutadienyl phenol or hydrochloride thereof. 10. A process according to claim 1 which is 2 amino 4 chloro 6 3 methoxycarbonyl 1 propenyl phenol or hydrochloride thereof. 11. Aprocess according to claim 1 which is 2 amino 4 2ethoxycarbonylethyl phenol or hydrochloride thereof. 12. Aprocess according to claim 1 which is 2 amino 4 2ethoxycarbonylvinyl phenol or hydrochloride thereof. 13. A process according to claim 1 which is 2 amino 6 methoxy 4 2 methoxycarbonylvinyl phenol or hydrochloride thereof. 14. A process according to claim 1 which is 2 amino 4 2 ethoxycarbonylvinyl 6 methoxyphenol or hydrochloride thereof. 15. A process according to claim 1 which is 2 amino 6 2 carboxyvinyl phenol or hydrochloride thereof. 16. A according to claim 1 which is 2 amino 4 tbutyl 6 2 ethoxycarbonylvinyl phenol or hydrochloride thereof. 17. A process according to claim 1 which is 2 amino 4 t butyl 6 2 etboxycarbonyletbyl phenol or hydrochloride thereof. 18. A process according to claim 1 which is 2 amino 4 2 4 biphenylmethoxycarbonyl vinyl phenol or hydrochloride thereof. 19. A process according to claim 1 which is 2 amino 6 2 ethoxycarbonylvinyl 4 4 pentylphenylthio phenol or hydrochloride thereof. 20. Aprocess according to claim 1 which is 2 amino 6 2 carboxyvinyl 4 4 pentylphenylthio phenol or hydrochloride thereof. 21. Aprocess accoridng to claim 1 which is 2 amino6 2 ethoxycarbonylvinyl 4 pbenylthiophenol or hydrochloride thereof.

## Description
SPECIFICATION 2 Aminophenol derivatives This invention is concerned to new 2 aminophenol derivatives which have an inhibitory activity on 5 lipoxygenase specifically, or an inhibitory activity on 5 lipoxygenase and cyclooxygenase at the same time, a process for their preparation and pharmaceutical compositions containing them or it as an active ingredient. Up to now, several compounds which inhibit lipoxygenase have been known, that is to say, 5,8,11,14 eicosatetraynoic acid i.e. ETTA , 5,8,11 eicosatriynoic acid, acetone phenylhydrazone i. e. APE , phenidone i.e. l phenyl 3 pyrazolidone , NDGA nordihydroguaiaretic acid ,BW 775C 3 amino 1 p trifluoromethyl pyrazole , 3 amino l pchlorophenyl 2 pyrazoline, benoxaprofene. These above compounds inhibit all lipoxygenases and other enzymes in the arachidonate cascade at the same time, or inhibit all lipoxygenases of 5, 12 and 15 lipoxygenase see Gendai Iryo , 12, 1065 1980 . The compounds of the present invention are particularly superior in having selective inhibitory activity on 5 lipoxygenase of many lipoxygenases,uhich react at the first stage of producing various kinds of leukotrienes from arachidonic acid in a living body and further not inhibiting other enzymes in the arachidonate cascade, or in having inhibitory activity on 5 lipoxygenase and cyclooxygenase uhich reacts at the first step of producing prostaglandins from arachidonic acid similarly, ar the same time. This invention is concerned to new 2 aminophenol derivatives which have an inhibitory activity on 5 lipoxygenase, or an inhibitory activity on 5 lipoxygenase and on cyclooxygenase at the same time, the process for their preparation and pharmaceutical compositions containing them as an active ingredient. More particularly, there are a group of compounds called leukotrienes, which are biosynthesized from arachidonic acid by a series of reactions in a living body and 5 lipoxygenase is related to the first step of this reaction. Similarly, prostaglandins are biosynthesized from arachidonic acid by another series of reactions, and cyclooxygenase is related to the first step of such reaction.This invention is concerned to new 2 aminophenol derivatives which strongly inhibit 5 lipoxygenase or strcngly inhibit 5 lipoxygenase and cyclooxygenase at the same tine and which are, therefore, useful as treating and preventing agents for diseases which induced by leukotrienes, e.g.allergic tracheal and bronchial diseases or allergic lung diseases, allergic shocks or various allergic inflammations, and various inflammations induced by prostaglandins, and further, this invention is concerned to the process for their preparation and pharmaceutical compo sitions comprising them as an active ingredient. In the study of prostaglandins abbreviated as PC hereafter , many important discoveries have been made continuously in recent years.And so it uas found a large change in the direction of the research and development of PC. In the compounds which have been newly found or nevly confirmed their structure in PG family, it can be said thatPG endoperoxides, i.e. PGG2 and Per2 , thromboxane A2 abbreviated as IXAn hereafter , prostacyclin i.e. PGI2 and leukotriene C, D and E abbreviated as LTC, LTD and LTE, respectively, hereafter etc. have especially strong and unique biological activities. All the compounds of PG family containing various PG previously known well in addition to the above compounds, are biosynthesized from the sane mother compound, i.e. arachidonic acid in a living body and, therefore, the metabolic routes starting from arachidonic acid is called Arachidonate cascade as a whole. The detailed explanation of each route and the pharmacological character of each metabolite are described in lgaku no Ayumi, 114, 378 1980 , ibid, 114, 462 1980 , ibid, 114, 866 1980 , acid, 114, 929 1980 , Gendai Iryo, 12, 909 1980 , ibid, 12, 1029 1980 , ibid, 12, 1065 1980 and ibid, 12, 1105 1980 etc. The arachidonate cascade can be largely divided into two routes one is the route that cyclooxygenase acts on arachidonic acid to convert, via PGG2 and further PGH2, into various PG, e.g. prostaglandin F2a abbreviated PGF2a hereafter , prostaglandin E2 abbreviated PGE2 hereafter , PGIt, TXA2, and the other is the route that lipoxygenase acts on arachidonic acid to convert, via hydroperoxyeicosatetraenoic acid abbreviated EPETE hereafter , into hydroxyeicosatetraenbic acid abbreviated as HETE hereafter or leukotrienes. As the former route is well known, it is not described in the present specification in detail. See Prostaglandin 1978 , edited by Makoto Katori, published by ltohdan sha. Concerning the latter route, it has been known that various compounds are produced according to the following Scheme A. SCHEME AEMI4.1 Besides being metabolized through a well known route, i.e.the route via PG endoperoxides, arachidonic acid is also metabolized through another route by the action of lipoxygenase. That is to say, arachidonic acid is metabolized by the action of lipoxygenase, e.g.5 lipoxygenase, 12 lipoxygenase and 15 lipoxygenase, to 5 EPETE, 12 EPETE and 15 EPETE, respectively, having following formulae EMI5.1 These HPETE are converted into 5 HETE, 12 HETE and 15 HETE, respectively, by the action of peroxidase converting a hydroperoxy group into a hydroxy group. Furthermore, LTA is also produced from 5 HPETE.LTA is converted into leukotriene B abbreviated as LTB hereafter enzynatically or not enzymatically, or is converted into LTC by the action of glutathion S transferase. Further, LTC is converted intoLTD by the action of y glutamyl transpeptidase. Moreover, it was recently defined that LTD is metabolized toLTE sea Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 91, 1266 1979 andProstaglandins, 19 5 , 645 19809 . It was found that LTC and LTD are identical with SRS slow reacting substance or SRS A slow reacting substance of anaphylaxis which was well known before see Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 76, 4275 1979 , Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun., 91, 1266 1979 , Proc. Natl.Acad. Sci. USA, 77, 2014 1980 and Nature, 285, 104 1980 So it can be understood that the pharmacological characters of these leukotrienes are the same as those of SRS or SRS A. Feldberg et al. reported that a substance is released when perfusing cobra venom through isolated lung or incubating cobra venom with vitellus. The substance was named SRS and it has been found thatSRS constricts ilem isolated from guinea pig slowly and continually see J. Physiol., 94, 187 1938 1 Moreover, Kellaway et al. showed the relation between SRS A and allergic reaction from the fact that SRS A is released when an antigen is sensitized to perusing lung isolated from guinea pig see Quant. J. Exp. Physiol., 30, 121 1940 . Brocklehurst reported that chen the antigen is sensitized to a lung fragment isolated from a bronchial asthmatics whose specific antigen is defined, by an operation, histamine and SRS A are released and strongly constrict bronchial muscle. Since such constriction can not be prevented by an antShistaminic agent, he suggested that SRS A is an important bronchoconstrictor in an asthmatic paroxysm see Progr. Allergy, 6, 539 1962 3. Since then, many reports were published, for instance, SRS A prepared from human lung slice constrict a tracheal spiral of normal human tsae Int. Arch. Allergy Appl. Imm mol., 38, 217 1970 when SBS A prepared from rats is injected intravenously to guinea pig, significant increase of purlmonor3r resistance is observed see J. Clin.Invest., 53, 1679 1974 1 in addition, a subcutaneous injection of SRS A to guinea pig, rat and monkey makes vascular permeability to enhance. see Advances in Immunology, 10, 105 19,69 , J. Allergy Clin. Immunol., 621, 371 1978 , Prostaglandins, 19 5 , 779 1980 etc. . Generally, the substance released by immunological reaction is called SRS A. On the other hand, the substance released by non inmological reaction such as calcium ionophore is called SRS. However, the above two substances have many similarities each other and, therefore, it is considered they would probably be the same substance. Based on result of these studies, various leukotrienes LTC,LTD and LTE, and further other leukotrienes which may be confirmed their structures in future biosynthesized from arachidonic acid via LTA, are considered to be important factors relating to the appearance of allergic tracheal and bronchial disease, allergic lung disease, allergic shock and various allergic inflammations. Recently, it was proposed that PG is an important chemical mediator of inflammatory reaction. For example, it was reported thatPGE enhances a vascular perneability and a pain, and has a vasodilative action, pyrogenetic action and chemotactic action see Prostaglandin 1978 , edited by Makoto Katori, published by Kohdan sha . Furthermore, it as reported that PGI2 alone does not affected vascular permeability, but it enhances vascular permeability of histamine see Prostaglandins, 15, 557 1978 . Moreover, the most recent report indicated that in order to suppress such action of PG, it is more effective to inhibit not only 5 lipoxygenase but also cyclooxygenase at the same time tsee Biochemical Pharmacology, 28, 1959 1979 and European Journal ofPharmacology, 66, 81 1980 . As the result of energetic investigations in order to find new compounds inhibiting 5 lipoxygenase, or inhibiting 5 lipoxygenase and cyclooxygenase at the same time in a living body, and so being effective for prevention and treatnent of not only various allergic diseases induced by leukotrienes but also inflatmnations induced by PGs, we have found the compounds which can be achieved that purpose, having completed this invention. That is to say, the present invention is concerned with 2 aminophenol derivatives of the general formula EMI9.1 wherein Z represents a straight alkylene or alkenylene group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atom s , R1 represents a hydrogen atom, a halogen atom, a straight or branched chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atom s , a straight or branched chain alkoxy group containing from 1 to 4 carbon atom s or a group represented by general formula EMI9.2 whereinR4 represents a hydrogen atom or a stright or branched chain group containing form 1 to 6 carbon atom s . , Rê represents a hydrogen atom, a straight or branched chain alkyl group containin from 1 to 4 carbon atom s or a group represented by a formula EMI9.3 R1 is attached to the 6th or 4th position of the benzene ring when R1 is attached to the 6th position of the benzene ring, Z COOR2 is attached to the 4th position of the benzene ring, and when RI is attached to the 4th position of the benzene ring, Z COOR is attached to the 6th position of the benzene ring. or pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts thereof. The compounds of the general formula I include compounds of the general formula EMI10.1 wherein all of the symbols represent the same meanings as hereinbefore defined. and compounds of general formula EMI10.2 wberein all of the symbols represent the same meanings as hereinbefore defined. . In the general formula I , Ia and Ib , examples of the straight alkylene or alkenylene group represented by Z are methylene, ethylene, trinethylene, tetramethylene, pentamethylene.and hexamethylene groups, and vinylene, n propenylene, n butenylene, butadienylene, npentenylene, pentadienylene, n hexenylene, n hexadienylene and n hexatrienylene groups. Preferable groups are methylene, ethylene, vinylene, n propenylene and butadienylene groups. In the general formula I , Ia and Ib , in halogen atoms represented by R1, preferable atoms are chlorine and fluorine atoms. In the general formula I , lea and Ib , examples of the alkyl group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atom s represented by R are methyl, ethyl, propyl, butyl, pentyl and hexyl groups, and isomers thereof. Preferable group is t butyl groun. In the general formula I , Ia and Ib , examples of the alkoxy group containing from 1 to 4 carbon atom s represented by R1 are methoxy, ethoxy, propoxy and butoxy groups, and isomers thereof.Preferable group is a methoxy group. In the general formula I , Ia and Ib , examples of the alkyl group containing form 1 to 4 carbon atom s represented by Rê are methyl, ethyl, propyl and butyl groups, and isomers thereof. Preferable groups are methyl and ethyl groups. In the compounds. of the general formula I , Ia and Ib , compounds wherein R2 represents a hydrogen atom or the group represented by the formula EMI11.1 are also preferable.In the general formula I , Ia and Ib , it is also preferable the case that R1 represents the general formula EMI11.2 wherein examples of the straight or branched chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atom s represented by R4 are methyl, ethyl, propyl, butyl, pentyl and hexyl groups and isomers thereof. And preferable groups represented by R4 are a hydrogen atom and a n pentyl group . In the compounds of the general formula I , Ia and Ib , preferable compounds are compounds wherein Z represents a methylene, ethylene, vinylene, n propenylene or butadienylene group, and R1 represents a hydrogen or chlorine atom, or a methoxy group or a group of the gencral formula EMI11.3 4 wherein preferable groups represented by R4 are a hydrogen atom or a n pentyl group , and R2 represents a hydrogen atom or methyl or ethyl group or a group represented by the formula EMI11.4 In the compounds of the general formula I , Ia and Ib , when Z represents an alkenylene group, two isomers in trans and cis configuration ray naturally exist by each double bond. However, the present invention include each isomers and the mixture thereof. Recently, a patent application including a part of compounds of the present application, i.e. compounds wherein R1 is a hydrogen atom and R2 is a carboxyl group in the general formula I , has been published see the European Patent Publication No. 0031561423. That is, the published specification is concerned to compounds of the general formula EMI12.1 wherein RÚ represents COOH, CH2 nCOOH, CH CH CH CH COOH,CH R COOH, O CH2 n COOH, S CH2 n COOH etc., n represents zero or an integer of from 1 to 5, R represents an alkyl group containing form 1 to 6 carbon atom s or a hydroxy group, R2 represents a hydroxy group, a lower alkoxy group containing from 1 to 10 carbon atom s , a lower carbonylalkoxy group, an amino group etc. and y represents an integer of 1 or 2 the definitions of such symbols are restricted to ones relative to the present invention. . However, the above application may not be considered to be a prior art of our present invention, because it is obscure whether a compound containing an amino group is synthesized in fact and because the use of such compounds is different from that of the present invention, taking into consideration the following facts 1 it is described that the only use of the compounds of the published specification is adjuvants for pharmaceuticals and it is not described that the compounds have the same bioactivity, i.e. inhibitory activity on 5 lipoxygenase selectively or on 5 lipoxygenase and cyclooxygenase at the same time as the compounds of the present invention possess 2 the concrete methods for the preparation of the compounds are not disclosed in the specification, and further there is no quotation literature for the preparation and 3 in preparing Examples, there is no description of compounds including amino group s which is an essential group of our present invention. Therefore, the present invention includes the above compounds. Furthermore, in compounds of the present invention, 2 anino 4 carhoxyiethylphenol and their ester, i.e. 2 amino 4 methoxycarbonylnethyl phenol are described in the Japanese Patent Kokai o. 50 70361. In this specification, it is described that the above compounds may be used as intezediates for bicycloheterocyclic compounds having pharmacological activities, i.e. analgesic, antipyretic and antiinfla natory activities, but there are no aescription about bioactivities, i.e. inhibitory activity on 5 lipoxygenase or on 5 lipoxygenase and cyclooxygenase at the same time. Therefore, the present invention includes the new use of the above compounds. The compounds of the general formula I are largely divided into two groups in the difference of Z. That is, one group is compounds of general formula EMI13.1 wherein Zê repersents a staight alkenylene group containing from 2 to 6 carbon atoms, RÚ and Rê represent the same meaning as hereinbefore defined, and the attached positions of R1 and Z2 C00R2 apply correspondingly as the ones of R1 and Z COOR2 hereinbefore depicted .and the other group is compounds of general formula EMI14.1 wherein zl represents a straight alkylene group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atom s m RÚ and Rê represent the same meaning as hereinbefore defined, and the attached positions of RÚ and Z COOR2 apply correspondingly as the ones of R1 and Z COOR2 hereinbefore depicted. According to a feature of the present invention, compounds of the general formula Ic may be prepared by selective reduction to an amino group, of the nitro group of a compound of general formula EMI14.2 wherein R2a represents a hydrogen atom or a stright or branched chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 4 carbon atom s , and the other symbols represent the same meaning as hereinbefore defined. or a compound of general formula EMI14.3 wherein all of the symbols represent the same meaning as hereinbefore defined Compounds of the general formula tic may be prepared by esterification of a compound of the general formula Ila wherein R2a represents a hydrogen atom, with 4 biphenylmethanol. Esterification may be carried out, for example, by using a condensing reagent such as p toluenesulfonyl chloride in an amine such as pyridine as a solvent, with molecular sieves with refluxing. The reduction may be carried out, for example, with using iron, zinc, tin or stannous chloride in hydrochloric acid, with using titanium trichloride in an inert organic solvent such as benzene or tetrahydrofuran, with using sodium persulfide or anmonium sulfide in an aqueous alcohol, or with using sodium hydrofulfite in ammonia water this method is preferable and the above methods are abbreviated as reduction method A. Compounds of the general formula Id with the exception of compounds wherein Z1 represents a methylene group, may be prepared by reduction to an amino group, of the nitro group and to a saturated alkylene group, of the double bond s in Z of the compounds of the general fotmula IIa at the same time. The reduction may be carried out, for example, with using hydrogen gas, by catalytic reduction, in the presence of catalyst such as nickel, platinum, palladium carbon, palladium or copper cromium oxide in an inert organic solvent this method is preferable or with using diboran or aluminum hydride and the above methods are abbreviated as reduction method B. In compounds of the general formula Id , compounds whereinZÚ represents a methylene group may be prepared by reduction to an amino group, of the nitro group of compounds of general formula EMI16.1 wherein RÚ represents the same meaning as hereinbefore defined, and the attached poritions of RÚ and CHa COOR2a apply corespondingly as the ones of R1 and Z COOR hereinbefore depicted. The reduction may be carried out, by the reduction methodA or B mentioned above. In compounds of the general formula Id , compounds wherein R2 represents 4 biphenylmethyl group may be prepared by esterification of compounds of the general formula Id wherein R represents a hydrogen atom. Esterification may be carried out by methods known per se, for example, the same method which is used in preparation of the compounds of the general formula tic from the compounds of the general formula Ila . Compounds of the general formula IIb may be prepared by nitration of a compound of general formula EMI16.2 wherein all of the symbols represent the sanie meaning as hereinbefore defined The nitration may be carried out, with using a conventional nitrating reagent such as mixed acid of nitric acid and sulfuric acid, a mixture of nitric acid and sulfuric acid in acetic acid or nitric acid in acetic acid this reagent is preferable etc. Compounds of the general formula III are known per se or may be prepared by known methods. For example, p hydroxyphenylacetic acid is available as a commercial product. Compounds of the general formula IIa may be prepared 1 by nitration, by the foregoing method, of a compound of general formula EMI17.1 wherein R1 and R represent the same meaning as hereinbefore defined, represents that COOR2aolay be attached in the cis side or trans side of the double bond, and the attached positions ofEMI17.2 apply correspondingly as the ones of R1 and Z COOR2 hereinbefore depicted or 2 by Wittig reaction of a compound of general formula EMI17.3 wherein Y3 represents a direct bond or a methylene group, R1 represents the same meaning as hereinbefore defined, and the attached positions of R1 and Y3 CHO apply correspondingly as the ones of B1 and Z COOR2 hereinbefore depicted3 and a phosphorane compound of general formula Ph3P CH Xê COOR VIa wherein Ph represents a phenyl group, X represents a direct bond or a straight alkenylene group containing from 2 to 4 carbon atoms, andR represents a straight or branched chain alkyi group containing from 1 to 4 carbon atom s or a phosphonium salt of general formula Ph3P CR2 X COON Br wherein XÚ represents a straight alkylene group containing from 1 to 4 carbon atom s , and Ph represents the same meaning as hereinbefore defined or 3 by Wittig reaction of a compound of general formula EMI18.1 wherein YÚ represents a straight alkylene group containting from 2 to 4 carbon atoms, RÚ represents the same meaning as hereinbefore defined, and the attached positions of R1 and YÚ CHO apply correspondingly as the ones of R1 and Z COOR hereinbefore depicted and a phosphorane compound of the general formula Ph3P CH X4 COOR VIb wherein X4 represents a direct bond or a vinylene group, and Ph and R represent the sane meaning as hereinbefore defined or a phosphonium salt of the general formula PhP CH2 X Cooh Br VIIb wherein X represents a methylene group or an ethylene group, and Ph represents the sane meaning as hereinbefore defined . Wittig reaction is well known one, and may be carried out with using an aldehyde compound and a phosphorane compound or phosphonium salt, at a temperature from 78 C to a reflux temperature of a solvent, in an inert organic solvent such as an ether e.g. diethyl ether, tetrahydrofuran, dioxane, 1,2 dimethoxyethane, a hydrocarbon e.g. benzene, toluene, xylene, hexane, a dialkylsulfoxide e.g. dimethylsulfoxide, dialkylformamide e.g.N,N dimethylformamide, a haloalkane e.g. methylene chloride, chloroform, or an alkanol containing from 1 to 4 carbon atom s e.g. methanol, ethanol, or a mixture contained two or more of them. The Wittig reagents represented by the formulae VIa , VIIa , VIb and VIIb are known per se or may be prepared by known method. cf. Kagaku no Ryoiki 20, 492 1966 and Organic Reactions 14, 270 1965 . In Wittig reaction, depending upon which reagent is used, trans olefin, cis olefin or mixture thereof are produced. That is, when a stable ylide is used, trans olefin will be produced selectively, and when an unstable ylide is used, a mixture of trans olefin and cis olefin will be produced. These mixtures may be separated by known purification means, for example, distillation at atmospheric pressure or reduced pressure, high speed liquid chromatography or column chromatography using silica gel or recrystallization. If necessary, carboxylic acid compounds and ester compounds of the general for nulae IIa and lib , obtained by the Wittig reaction, may by converted into esters by esterification and into carboxylic acid compounds by saponification, respectively. Compounds of the general formula IV are known per se, or may be prepared by known methods. For example, 4 2 carboxyvinyl 2 sethoxy phenol is available as a commercial product Compounds of the general formula V may be prepared by nitration by methods depicted before, of a compound of general formula EMI20.1 wherein all of the symbols represent the same meaning as hereinbefore defined . Compounds of the general formula TX may be prepared by nitration by methods depicted before, of a compound of general formula EMI20.2 wherein all of the symbols represent the same meaning as hereinbefore defined . Compounds of the general formula X may be prepared by Wittig reaction of a compound of the general formula VIII and a compound of the general formula vIb or VIIb to obtain a compound of general formula EMI21.1 wherein Y2 represents a straight alkenylene group containing from 2 to 4Carbon atoms, RÚ and R2a represets the same meaning as hereinbefore defined, and the attached positions of RÚ and Yê COOR2a apply correspondingly as the ones of R1 and Z COOR2 hereinbefore depicted .and further by the reduction by the method of reduction B of the straight alkenylene group of the resulting compound of general formula XI , and to obtain compounds of general formula EMI21.2 wherein R1, R2a and yl represent the same meaning as hereinbefore defined, and the attached positions of RÚ and YÚ COOR2a apply correspondingly as the ones of RÚ and Z COORê hereinbefore depicted .and further by selective reduction of the COOR2a group of the compounds of the general formula CXII into a formyl group. The selective reduction of the COOR2agroup into a formyl group may be carried out, for examp e, with using diisobutylaluminium hydride DIBAL in bexane, tetrahydrofuran or toluene. Compounds of the general formula VIII are known per se e.g. 5 chloro 2 hydroxybenzaldehydr is available as a commercial product , or prepared by methods known per se, for example, compounds wherein R1 represents a phenylthio group or an alkylphenylthio group i.e. the compounds represented by general formulae VIIIa and YIIIb may be prepared by the series of reactions depicted schematically below in Scheme B, wherein A and A represent a halogen atom such as chlorine, bromine or iodine atom, and symbol Ne represents a methyl group. S c h e m a B EMI23.1 In Scheme B, each step can be effected using methods known per se. For example, step a may be carried out by sulfonation likeFriedel Crafts reaction, by reacting with a sulfonating reagent such as sulfonyl halides of the general formula XIV in an inert solvent such as chloroform, methylene chloride, carbontetrachloride in the presence of a catalyst such as aluminium chloride at a temperature from 2o0C to 500C. In step a , two isomers i.e. the compounds of the general formulae XV and ZVIII ray be obtained at the same time, and therefore they must be separated. The separation may be carried out by known purification methods, for example, distillation at atomospheric pressure or reduced pressure, high speed liquid chromatography, thin layer chromatography or column chromatography using silica gel or magnesium siliconate, or recrystallization. Step b may be carried out by using hydrobromic acid or a mixture of hydrobromic acid and hydroiodic acid in acetic acid or without solvent, with refluxing. norse, according to reaction condition, step b may not be necessary i.e. the compounds of the general formulae XVI and XIX may be obtained only by the reaction step a . Step c may be carried out by using a reducing reagent such as diisobutylaluminium hydride DIBAL i L an inert solvent such as toluene, at a temperature from 200C to room temperature. Step d may be carried out by formylation, by using chloroform and alkalimetal hydroxide such as sodium hydroxide, in the presence of trialkylamine such as triethylamine or tributylamine, in an inert solvent such as benene at a temperature from 0 C to 300C. Step e may be carried out by using a lithioating reagent such as n butyl lithium in an inert solvent such as tetrahydrofuran at a temperature of 80eC to 40 C. Step ifs may be carried out by hydrolysis, by using boron tribromide in an inert solvent such as methylene chloride at a temperature of 200C to 300C. In the compounds of the general formula I , Ia and lob , the carboxylic acid compounds and the ester compounds can be converted into each other by esterification or saponification, when necessary. The general synthesis routes above mentioned are depicted as an example, so any different routes may be thought. Acid addition salts of 2 aminophenol derivatives of the general formula I nay be prepared by known methods, for example, by reacting stoichiometric quantities of a compound of the general formula I and an appropriate acid e.g. an inorganic acid such as hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, hydroiodic acid, sulfuric acid, phosphoric acid or nitric acid, or an organic acid such as acetic acid, lactic acid, tartaric acid, benzoic acid, citric acid, methanesulfonic acid, ethanesulfonic acid, benzenesulfonic acid, toluenesulfonic acid or isethionic acid, in a suitable solvent. Preferably, acid addition salts are non toxic salts. By the term non toxic salts as used in this specification, is meant salts the anions of which are relatively innocuous to animal organism when used in therapeutic doses so that the benefitical pharmacological properties of the compounds of general formula I are not vitiated by side effects ascribable to those anions. Preferably the salts are water soluble. Suitable acid addition salts are, for example, inorganic acid salts such as hydrochloride, hydrobromide, hydroiodide, sulfate, phosphate, nitrate and organic acid salts such as citrate, methanesulfonate, ethanesulfonate, benzenesulfonate or toluenesulfonate, isethionate. Compounds. of the general formula I and pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts thereof possess an inhibitory effect on 5 lipoxygenase specifically, or on 5 lipoxygenase and cyclooxygenase at the same time, and therefore, useful when it is desired to control the biosynthesis of leukotrienes and various PGs in mammals including humans, especially humans. For example in a standard assay system using polymorphonuclear leukocytes from guinea pig protocols were described hereafter , the concentrations for 502 inhibitions on 5 lipoxygenase and on cyclooxygenase by a amino 6 2 ethoxycarbonylvinyl phenol hydrochloride were 0.5 vN and 1 pH, respectively, by b 2 amino 4 2 ethoxycarbonylvinyl phenylo hydrochloride were 0.6 and 2.2 , respectively, by c 2 amino 4 2 4 biphenylmethoxycarbonyl 1E vinyl phenol were 0.8 M and 10 M, respectively, by d 2 amino 6 2 ethoxycarbonyl 1E vinyl 4 phenylthio phenol hydrochloride were 0.2 UH and 0.6 llM, respectively.Therefore, it is comfirmed that the compound a inhibits both enzymes at the same time at a very low concentration, and that the compounds b , c and d inhibit 5 lipoxygenase slightly specifically at a very low concentration. The experiments for screening using polymorphonuclear leukocytes were carried out as follows The reaction mixture 0.1 ml containing 5 mole of potassium phosphase at pH 7.4, 0.1 mole of calcium chloride, polymorphonuclear leukocytes prepared from guinea pigs 4 x 10 cells and test compound was preincubated for 5 minutes at 37 C. The reaction was started by the addition of 1 14C arachidonic acid 2.2 x 10 dpm, 1.8 mole , followed by the incubation at 37 C for 5 minutes. The reaction was terminated by the addition of 0.3 ml of a mixture of ether methanol lN citric acid 30 4 1 . The organic phase 20 pl was applied to silica gel plate. Thin layer chromatography was performed to separate each product with solvent system of etherlpetroleum ether acetic acid 85 15 0.1 . Activities of 5 lipoxygenase and cyclooxygenase were calculated from the measurements of the productions of 5 HEIE, and 12L hydroxy 5, 8, 10 heptatrienoic acid i.e. HHT or thromboxane B i.e. TXB2 respectively. it has been knovn that HHT and TXB2 were the last products of the system concerning cyclooxygenase in the arachidonate cascade. The concentrations for 50 inhibitions on 5 lipoxygenase and on cyclooxygenase were evaluated by using the concentrations of compounds of the present invention required 50 inhibitions on the productions of 5 HETE, and HHT or TXB. Further, in another assay system, the inhibitory activity of compounds of the present invention on 5 lipoxygenase only was also evaluated by using an enzyme prepared from polymorphonuclear leukocytes of guinea pig. Guinea pig was treated by casein and harvested polymorphonuclear leukocytes from cavity vere sonicated, followed by the centrifugation at 105,000 x g. The surpernate was used as an enzyme throughout this work. The supernate 100 500 S of protein was incubated for 5 minutes at 30µC with 1 C arachidonic acid and 1 mM calcium chloride in the presence or in the absence of test compound.The reaction was terminated by the addition of ether. Ether extract was separated by thin layer chromatography using silica gel plates to obscrve production of 5 REm, 5,12 diHETE and LTB. In this assay, the concentrations of 2 amino 4 chloro 6 2 ethoxycarbonyl 1E vinyl phenol hydrochloride, 2 amino 4 chloro6 4 ethoxycarbonyl 1E,3E butadienyl phenol hydrochloride, 2 amino 6methoxy 4 2 methoxycarbonyl 1E vinyl phenol hydrochloride, 2 amino4 2 4 biphenylmethoxycarbonyl 1E vinyl phenol and 2 amino 6 2ethoxycarbonyl 1E vinyl 4 phenylthiophenol hydrochloride required to produce a 50Z inhibition. on the productions of 5 HETE, 5,12 diHEIE and LTB concentration for a 50Z inhibition of 5 lipoxygenase, i.e. IC50 vere 0.6 M, 0.6 UM, 2.7 1, 0.3 21 and 0.22 iN. respectively. On the other hand, all extent of the compounds of the present invention were confirmed that their acute toxicities were more than 30 mg Kg by intravenous injection. Therefore, the compounds of the present invention may be considered to be sufficiently safe and suitable for medical use. For exanple, in a test of acute toxicity using mice and administering by intravenous injection to their tail vein, 2 amino 6 methoxy 4 2 methoxycarbonyl lE vinyl phenol hydrochloride, 2 amino 4 chloro 6 2 ethoxycarbonyl lE vinyl phenol hydrochloride and 2 amino 4 chloro 6 4 ethoxycarbonyl ClE, 3E butadienyl 3phenol hydrochloride possessed no dead case in 21 cases at doses of 30 mglKg. To control the biosynthesis of leukotrienes and prostaglandins are useful for the prevention and the treatment of allergic tracheal and bronchial diseases or allergic lung diseases, allergic shocks or various allergic inflammations, in addition to various inflam ations induced by prostaglandins in mammals including human , especially human.For such purposes, the compounds of this invention are usually administered systemically, for example, orally, rectally or parenterafly. Doses are determined depending upon age, symptoms, the desired therapeutic effects, the routes of administration, the duration of the treatment and the like, and are generally and preferably about between 0.1 mg and 500 mg for oral administration and between 1 pg and 1 mg for intravenous injection or between 0.1 pg and 0.1 mg hour fot intravenous infusion, specially when required emergency treatment. Solid compositions for oral administration include compressed tablets, pills, dispersible powders and granules. In such solid compositions, one or more of the active compounds is or are, admixed with at least one inert diluent such as calcium carbonate, potato starch, dextrin, alginic acid, lactose, mannitol, glucose or cacao butter. The compositions may also comprise, as is normal practice, additional substances other than inert diluents e.g. lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate and disintegrating agents such as cellulose calciumgluconate. The tablets or pills may, if desired, be coated and made into sugar coated, gelatin coated, enteric coated or film coated tablets and pills, or tablets or pills may be coated with two or more layers. Liquid compositions for oral administration include phar deutically acceptable emulsions, solutions, suspensions, syrups and elixirs, containing inert diluents such as water or liquid paraffin, commonly used in the art.Besides inert diluents, such conpositions may also conprise adjuvants such as wetting and suspending agents, and sweetening, flavouring, perfuming and preserving agents. The compositions according to this invention for oral administration, also include capsules of absorbable materials such as gelatin, containing one or more of the active ingredients with or without the addition of diluents or excipients. Solid compositions for intrarectal administration include suppositories containing one or more active ingredients, formulated in known manner. Preparations according to this invention for parenteral administration include sterile aqueous or non aqueous solutions, suspensions and emulsions. Examples of non aqueous solvents or suspending media are, for example, propylene glycol, polyethylene glycol, ethanol, vegetable oils, such as olive oil, and injectable organic esters such as ethyl oleate, sorbitan esters. These compositions may also include adjuvants such as preserving, wetting, emulsifying and dispersing agents. Ihey may be sterilized, for example, by filtration through a bacteria retaining filter, by incorporation of sterilizing agents in the composition or by irradiation.They may also be manufactured in the form of sterile solid compositions, and which can be used to dissolve in sterile water or some other media, icnetiately before use. The proportions of active ingredient in the compositions of the present invention may be varied, and it is required to constitute a proportion such that a suitable dosage for the desired therapeutic effect shall be obtained. Several unit dosage forms may of course be administered at the same time. In general, the preparations for injection contain normally at least 0.025Z of active ingredients by weight, and ones for oral administration contain normally at least 0.1Z of active ingredients by veight. Preferable compounds included this invention, for example, the following compounds and pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic acid addition salts thereof may be listed included in the general formula Ia Z amino 4 methoxycarbonylmethylphenol. 2 amino 4 e thoxycarbonylmethylphenol, 2 amino 6 chloro 4 methoxyarbonylmethylphenol, 2 amino 6 chlor 4 athoxycarbonylmethylphenol, 2 amino 6 methoxy 4zDethoxycarbonylmethylphenol, 2 amino 4 e thoxycarbonylme thyl 6 me thoxyphenol, 2 amino 4 methoxycarbonylethylphenol, 2 amino 4 athoxycarbonylethylphenol, 2 amino 6 chloro 4 methoxycarbonylethylphenol, 2 amino 6 chloro 4 ethoxycarbonylethylphenol, 2 amino 6 methoxy 4 methoxycarbonylethylphenol, 2 amino 6 athoxycarbonylethyl 6 methoxyphenol, 2 amino 4 2 methoxycarbonylvinyl phenol, 2 amino 4 2 ethoxycarbonylvinyl phenol, 2 amino 6 chloro 4 2 methoxycarbonyvinyl phenol, 2 amino 6 chloro 4 2 ethoxycarbonylvinyl phenol, 2 amino 6 methoxy 4 2 methoxycarbonylvinyl phenol, 2 amino 6 methoxy 4 2 methoxycarbonylvinyl phenol, 2 amino 4 2 methoxycarbonyl 1 propenyl phenol, 2 amino 4 2 ethoxycarbonyl 1 propenyl phenol, 2 amino 6 chloro 4 2 methoxycarbonyl 1 propenyl phenol, 2 amino 6 chloro 4 2 ethoxycarbonyl 1 propenyl phenol, 2 amino 6 methoxy 4 2 methoxycarbonyl 1 propenyl phenol, 2 amino 4 2 ethoxycarbonyl 1 propenyl 6 methoxyphenol, 2 amino 4 4 methoxycarbonylbutadienyl phenol, 2 amino 4 4 ethoxycarbonylbutadienyl phenol, 2 amino 6 chloro 4 4 methoxycarbonylbutanienyl phenol, 2 amino 6 chloro 4 4 ethoxycarbonylbutanienyl phenol, 2 amino 6 methoxy 4 4 methoxycarbonylbutanienyl phenol, 2 amino 4 4 methoxycarbonylbutanienyl 6 methoxyphenol, 2 amino 6 2 carboxyvinyl phenol, 2 amino 4 t butyl 6 2 ethoxycabonylethyl phenol, 2 amino 4 t butyl 6 2 methoxycabonylethyl phenol, 2 amino 4 t butyl 6 2 ethoxycabonylpropyl phenol, 2 amino 4 t butyl 6 2 ethoxycabonylvinyl phenol, 2 amino 4 t butyl 6 2 methoxycabonylvinyl phenol, 2 amino 4 t butyl 6 2 ethoxycarbonylpropenyl phenol, 2 amino 6 2 ethoxycarbonylvinyl 4 phenylthiophenol, 2 amino 6 2 methoxycarbonylvinyl 4 phenylthiophenolµ 2 amino 6 2 carboxyvinyl 4 phenylthiophenol, 2 amino 6 2 ethoxycarbonylvinyl 4 4 pentylphenylthio phenol, 2 amino 6 2 methoxycarbonylvinyl 4 4 pentylphenylthio phenol, 2 amino 6 2 carboxyvinyl 4 4 pentylphenylthio phenol, 2 amino 6 2 ethoxycarbonylpropenyl 4 phenylthiophenol, 2 amino 6 2 methoxycarbonylpr4penyl 4 phenylthiophenol, 2 amino 6 2 carboxypropenyl 4 phenylthiophenol, 2 amino 6 2 ethoxycarbonylvinyl 4 4 pentylphenylthio phenol, 2 amino 6 2 methoxycarbonylvinyl 4 4 pentylphenylthio phenol and 2 amino 6 2 carboxylpropenyl 4 4 pentylphenylthiophenol and included in the. general formula Ib 2 amino 6 methoxycarbonylmethylphenol, 2 amino 6 ethoxycarbonylmethylphenol, 2 amino 4 chloro 6 methoxycarbonylmethylphenol, 2 amino 4 chloro 6 e thoxycarhonylme thylphenol , 2 amino 4 methoxy 6 methoxycarbonylmethylphenol, 2 amino 6 ethoxycarbonylmethyl 4 methoxyphenol, 2 amino 6 methoxycarbonylethylphenol, 2 amino 6 e thorycarb onyle thylphcnol . 2 amino 4 chloro 6 methoxycarbonylethylphenol, 2 amino 4 chloro 6 ethoxycarbonylethylphenol, 2 amino 4 mehoxy 6 methoxycarbonylethylphenol, 2 amino 6 ethoxycarbonylethyl 4 methoxyphenol, 2 amino 6 2 methoxycarbonylvinyl phenol, 2 amino 6 2 ethoxycarbonylvinyl phenol, 2 amino l chloro 6 2 me thoxycarbonylvinyl phenol , 2 amino 4 chloro 6 2 ethoxycarbonylvinyl phenol, 2 amino 4 methoxy 6 2 me thoxycarbonylvinyl phenol, 2 amino 6 2 ethoxycarbonylvinyl 4 methoxyphenol 2 amino 6 2 methoxycarbonyl l propenyl phenol, 2 amino 6 2 ethoxycarbonyl 1 propenyl phenol, 2 anino 4 chl oro 6 2 me thoxycarbonyl l propenyl phenol, 2 amino 4 chloro 6 2 ethoxycarbonyl l propenyl phenol, 2 amino 4 methoxy 6 2 methgoxycarbonyl 1 propenyl phenol, 2 amino 6 2 ethoxycarbonyl 1 propenyl 4 methoxyphenol, 2 amino 6 t me thoxycarbonylbutadienyl pirenol , 2 amino 6 4 ethoxycarbonylbutadienyl phenol, 2 amino 4 chloro 6 4 methoxycarbonylbutadienyl phenol, 2 amino 4 chloro 6 4 ethoxycarbonylbutadienyl phenol, 2 amino 4 methoxy 6 4 methoxycarbonylbutadienyl phenol, 2 amino 6 4 ethoxycarbonylbutadienyl 4 methoxyphenol, 2 amino 4 2 4 biphenylmethoxycarbonyl vinyl phenol, 2 aminom 4 2 4 biphenylmethoxycarbonyl vinyl 6 chlorophenol and 2 amino 4 2 4 biphenylmethoxyearbonyl vinyl 6 1nethoxyphenol. The following Reference Examples and Examples illustrate, but not limit, the preparation of compounds of the.present invention. In the Reference Ex i nples and Examples, mp , TLC , IR , NMR and Mass represent melting point , Thin layer chromatography , Infrared absorption spectrum , Nuclear magnetic resonance and Mass spectrun , respectively. Where solvent ratios are specified in chromatographic separations, the ratios are by volume the solvents in parentheses in thin layer chromatography show the developing solvent used, Except when specified otherwise, infrared spectra are recorded by KBr tablet method and nuclear magnetic resonance spectra are recorded in deuterochloroform CDCl3 solutions.Reference Example 1 2 2 Carboxy 1E vinyl 6 nitrophenol To a solution of 2.0 g of 2 2 carboxy 1E vinyl phenol commercial product in 20 ml of acetic acid, 0.77 g of concentratea nitric acid was added dropwise at room temperature. In this solution, crystals were deposited after stirring for one hour. After addition of ice water, the reaction solution was filtered, and gatbered crystals were washed with water, and dried in vacuo by vacuum pump to give 2.1 g of crystals of the title compound p nitro isomer was partly contained having the following physical characteristic NMR deuterochloroform acetone d6 dimethylsulfoxide d6 8.3 7.6 6H, m , 7.0 1H, d , 6.99 1H, t , 6.57 1H, d , 6.53 1H, d .The next compounds having the following physical characteristics were given by the same procedure as described in Reference Example 1 a 5 Chloro 2 hydroxy 3 nitrobenzeldehyde Starting material 1.6 6 g pf 5 chlorosalicylaldehyde commercial product Yield 1.9 g yellow crystals . mp 1120 l130C TLC methylene chloride Rf 0.25 IR 3430, 1650, 1523, 1440, 1365, 1345, 1300, 1263, 1223, 955, 915, 815. 772, 738, 710 cm 1 NMR deuterochlorform acetone d6 6 10.23 1H, s , 8.21 1H, d 7.98 1H, d . b 4 Carboxyme thyl 2 ni trophenol. Starting material 1.52 g of p hydroxyphenyl acetic acid commercial product Yield 1.37 g TLC methylene chloride methanol w 10 1 Rf 0.2 IR v 3450, 3280, 3090, 3050, 2970, 2760, 2670, 1700, 1630, 1580, 1530, 1490, 1430, 1410, 1330, 1305, 1260, 1215, 1175, 1130, 1085, 920, 845, 825, 765, 645cm 1 NNR deuterochloroform methanol d 7.92 1H, d , 7.45 1H, dd , 7.03 1H, d , 3.57 2H, s Mass m e 197 M , 181, 152, 135, 106. c 4 2 Crboxy 1E vinyl 2 nitrophenol Starting material 1.64 g of p hydroxy trans cynnamic acid commercial product Yield 630 mg NMR 8.07 1H, d , 7.67 1H, dd , 7.46 1H, d , 7.08 1H, d , 6.32 1H, d Mass m e 209 M , 192, 162, 134, 118. d 4 2 carboxy lE vinyl 2 me thoxy 6 nitrophenol Starting material 1.46 g of 4 2 carboxy 1E vinyl 2 methoxyphenol commercial product Yield 450 mg NMR acetone d methanol d 6 7.70 1H, d , 7.50 111, d , 7.45 1H, d , 6.43 1H, d , 3.95 3H, s Mass m e 239 M , 194, 138, 123, 105.Reference Example 2 2 2 Ethoxycarbonyl 1E vinyl 6 nitrophenol The solution of 2.1 g of 2 2 carboxy 1E vinyl 6 nitrophenol prepared in Reference Example 1 dissolved in 30 ml of ethanol, 1 ml of concentrated hydrochloric acid was added, and the solution was ref fluxed for 16 hours. The solution was concentrated under reduced pressure and further dried in vacuo by vacuum pump.The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel using a mixed solvent of chloroform and ethyl acetate 5 1 as an eluent to give 1.1 g of the title compound having the following physical characteristics TLC chloroform ethyl acetate 3 1 Ref 0.65 IR v 3430, 3200, 3100, 3000, 2900, 1715, 1640, 1600, 1585, 1535, 1460, 1440, 1390, 1365, 1325, 1270, 1190, 1160, 1145, 1095, 1025, 990, 980, 925, 870, 840, 810, 740, 685cm 1 11.20 1H, s , 8.03 1H, dd , 7.80 1H, d , 7.70 1H, dd , 6.92 1H, t , 4.23 2H, q , 1.33 3H, t Mass m e 237 M , 191, 174, 164, 148, 118, 89.Reference Example 3 4 Chloro 2 2 ethoxycarbonyl 1E vinyl 6 nitrophenol At room temperature, 403 mg of 5 chloro 2 hydroxy 3 nitrobenz aldehyde prepared in Reference Example l a . , 767 mg of ethoxycarbonyl methylidene triphenylphosphorane and 4 ml of toluene were mixed. The solution was allowed to stand for 25 minutes and purified by column chromatography on silica gel using a mixed solvent of n hexane and methylene chloride 1 1 as an eluent to give 476 mg of the title conpound having the following physical characteristics mp 1100C 312 C ThC n hexane methylene chloride 1 1 Rf 0.24 IR v 3420, 3240, 1705, 1605, 1521, 1446, 1416, 1265, 1240, 1150, 1040, 983, 900, 732 cm 1 11.0 1H, s , 8.03 1H, d , 7.80 1H, d , 7.68 1H, d , 6.53 1H, d , 4.25 211, q , 1.33t3H, t .Reference Example 4 4 Chloro 2 2 formyl 1E vinyl 6 nitrophenol At room temperature, 443 mg of 5 chloro 2 hydroxy 3 nitro benzaldehyde prepared in Reference Example l a . , 608 mg of formylmethylene triphonylphosphorane and 10 ml of methylene chloride were mixed. The solution was stirred for 1.5 hours. After that, the solution was purified by column chromatography on silica gel using methylene chloride as an eluent to give 455 mg of the title compound unreacted starting material was partly contained. having the following physical characteristic TLC methylene chloride Rf 0.33. Reference Example 5 4 Chloro 2 4 ethoxycarbonyl 1E, 3E butadienyl 6 nitrophenol At room temperature, 455 mg of 4 chloro 2 2 formyl lE vinyl 6 nitrophenol prepared in Reference Example 4 , 766 mg of ethoxycarbonyl methylidene triphenylphosphorane and 7 ml of methylene chloride were mixed.The solution was stirred at 50 C for 2 hours. The solution was cooled to room temperature and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel using a mixed solvent of n hexane and methylene chloride 1 1 as an eluent to give 511 mg of the title compound having the following physical characteristics TLC metnylene chloride n hexane 1 1 Rf 0.22 IR 3400, 1700, 1620, 1522, 1445, 1403, 1330, 1313, 1303, 1240, 1165, 1137, 1027, 1000, 892, 862, 761, 722, 713cm 1 10.91 1H, s , 7.91 1H, d , 7.63 1H, d , 7.60 6.10 3H, m , 5.98 1H, d , 4.19 2H, q , 1.31 3H, t .Reference Exanole 6 4 Chloro 2 3 methoxycarbonyl 1E propenyl 6 nitrophenol To a solution of 5.0 g of 2 carboxyethyl triphenylphosphonium bromide commercial product in 20 ml of dimethyl sulfoxide was added 25 ml of 1M solution of sodium methylsulphinyl methylide in dimethyl sulfoxide which was prepared independently, at room temperature. Five minutes af after, a solution of 0.95 g of 5 chloro 2 hydroxy 3 nitro benzaldehyde prepared in Reference Example 1 a . dissolved in 9 ml of dimethyl sulfoxide was added to the solution. The solution was stirred for 1 hour at room temperature and added 150 ml of water and adjusted to pH2 with 1N hydrochloric acid. The reaction solution vas extracted vith ethyl ether, the extract vas washed with water and a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in 20 ml of methanol, and dropped a solution of diazomethane in ethyl ether at O C. Dropping was stopped after confirmation of disappearance of starting material on TLC.The reaction solution was concentrated under reduced pressure, and purified by column chromatography on silica gel using a mixed solvent of n hexane and methylene chloride 3 2 as an eluent to give 722 mg of crude title compound. Obtained compound was purified by recrystallization from a mixture of n hexane and methylene chloride 10 1 to give 290 mg of the title compound having the following physical characteristics mp 122 124 C ILC n hexane ethyl ether 3 2 Rf 0.41 IR v 3200, 1730, 1643, 1600, 1570, 1520, 965, 900, 723, 690cm 1 NMR 10.94 111, s , 8.03 1E, d , 7.73 1H, d , 6.84 1f1, d , 6.47 1H, dt , 3.76 3H, s , 3.35 2H, d . Reference Example 7 4 Methoxycarbonylmethyl 2 nitrophenol To 420 mg of 4 Carboxymethyl 2 nitrophenol prepared in ReferenceExample 1 b . , 20 ml of acetonedimethylacetal and 1 ml of concentrated hydrochloric acid was added and the mixture was stirred for 16 hours.The solution was concentrated under reduced pressure and dried in vacuo by vacuum pump. The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel using methylene chloride as an eluent to give 450 mg of the title compound having the following physical characteristics TLC benzene ethyl acetate 10 1 Rf 0.52 IR 3400, 3090, 2970, 2850, 1730, 1630, 1575, 1535, 1480, 1435, 1425, 1350, 1320, 1275, 1240, 1195, 1080, 990, 915, 840, 820, 800, 765, 730 cm 1 NMR 10.35 1H, s , 7.91 1H, d , 7.48 1H, dd , 7.03 1H,d , 3.68 3H, s , 3.60 2H, s Mass m e 211 M , 152, 135, 106, 105.The next ester compounds having the following physical characteristics were given from the corresponding carboxylic acids by the same procedure as described in Reference Example 7 a 2 Methoxy 4 2 methoxycarbonyl 1E vinyl 6 nitrophenol Starting material 450 mg of 4 2 carboxy lE vinyl 2 methoxy 6 nitrophenol prepared in Reference Example 1 d . Yield 307 mg TLC benzene ethyl acetate 3 10 1 Rf t 0.36 IR v 3450, 3220, 3080, 2950, 1710, 1635, 1610, 1540, 1440, 1385, 1320, 1300, 1270, 1245, 1200, 1170, 1140, 1065, 1000, 925, 860, 770, 740 cm 1 NMR 6 10.77 1H, s , 7.77 1H, d , 7.50 1H, d , 7.17 111, d , 6.33 1H, d , 3.93 3H, s , 3.78 3H, s Mass mie 253 M , 222, 213, 204, 192, 133.Reference Example 8 4 2 Ethoxycarbonyl 1E vinyl 2 nitrophenol To a solution of 630 mg of 4 2 Carboxy 1E vinyl 2 nirophenol dissolved in 20 ml of ethanol, 5 ml of concentrated hydrochloric acid was added, and the solution was refluxed for 18 hours. After cooling and addition of water, the solution was stirred.Deposited crystals were collected by filtration and was lied vith water, and dried in vacuo by vacuum pump to obtain 445 mg of the title compound having the following physical characteristics TLC methylene chloride methanol 10 1 Rf 0.82 IR 3450, 3070, 2990, 2920, 1720, 1640, 1625, 1530, 1425, 1315, 1295, 1250, 1180, 1140, 1030, 990, 830cm 1 10.6 1H, s , 8.13 1H, d , 7.67 1H, dd , 7.48 1H, d , 7.13 1H, d , 6.33 111, d , 4.23 2H, q , 1.31 3H, t Mass mie 237 M , 209, 192, 165, 146, 118, 89.The next compound having the following physical characteristics was given by the same procedure as described in Reference Example 8 a 4 2 Ethoxycarbonyl 1E vinyl 2 methoxy 6 nirophenol. Starting material 1.16 g of 4 2 carboxy 1E vinyl 2 methoxy 6 nitrophenol prepared in Reference Example 1 d . Yeild 155 mg by product was partly contained 7.67 1H, d , 7.43 2H, d , 7.13 1H, d , 6.90 3H, m , 6.30 1H, d , 6.20 1H, d , 4.20 2H, q , 4.18 2H, q , 3.90 3H, s , 3.83 3H, s , 1.32 6H, t .Referemce Example 9 5t Butyl 2 hydroxybenzaldehyde In an atomosphere of nitrogen, to a solution of 30 g of 4 t butylphenol dissolved in 300 ml of trifluoroacetic acid, 28 g of hexamethylenetetramine was added slowly. The solution was refluced for 18 hours. After cooling, the solution was concentrated. The solution was poured into 1.2 liter of ice water. The solution was neutralized with sodium carbonate, and e tracted with ethyl ether. The extract was dried and concentrated.The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel using a mixture of chloroform and cyclohexane 3 7 as an eluent to give 18.77 g of the title compound having the following physical characteristics TLC chloroform cyclohexane 1 1 Rf 0.38 IR liquid film v 2950, 1650, 1480, 1285 1260, 1230, 1180cm 1 a 6 10.89 1H, s , 9.92 1H, s , 7.62 1H, dd , 7.56 1H, s , 6.96 1H, d , 1.34 9H, s Nass m e 178 M , 163, 105. Reference Exemple 10 5 t Butyl 2 hydroxy 3 nitrobenzaldehyde In an atomosphere of nitrogen, to a solution of 5 g of 5 t butyl 2 hydroxybenzaldehyde prepared in Reference Example 9 dissolved in 30 ml of acetic acid, 2.14 ml of a 60 nitric acid was added over a period of 30 minutes at 100 C. The solution was stirred for 30 minutes. To the solution, 10 ml of ice water was added.The depositing crystals were gathered by filtration, washed with water and dried to give 4.29 g of the title compound having the following physical characteristics mp 90 C TLC chloroform Rf 0.52 IR V 3250, 1680, 1620, 1580, 1525, 1410, 1295, 1260, 1145cm 1 NMR 11.26 1H, s , 10.45 1H, s , 8.38 1H, d , 8.18 1H, d , 1.38 9H, s Mass m e 223 M , 208, 205. Reference Example 11 4 t Butyl 2 2 ethoxycarbonyl 1E vinyl 6 nitrophenol A solution of 1 g of 5 t butyl 2 hydroxy 3 nitrobenzaldebyde prepared in Reference Example 10 dissolved in 5 ml of chloroform vas cooled with ice bath. To the solution, a solution of 1.73 g of ethoxycarbonylvinylidene triphenylphosphorane dissolved in 5 ml of chloroform was added, the solution was stirred for 30 minutes.The reaction mixture was concentrated, and obtained residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel using a mixture of methylene chloride and n hexane 2 1 as an eluent to give 1.07 g of the title compound having the following physical characteristics a 11.16 1H, s , 8.17 1H, d , 7.99 1H, d , 7.87 1E,d , 6.71 lH, d , 4.31 2H, q , 1.37 3H, t Mass m e 293, 278, 248, 247, 232, 204, 186.Reference Example 12 4 2 4 Biphenylmethoxycarbonyl 1E vinyl 2 nitrophenol In an atomosphere of nitrogen, to a solution of 1.12 g of 4 2 carboxy 1E vinyl 2 nitrophenol prepared in Reference Example 1 c and 975 mg of 4 biphenylmethanol dissolved in 60 ml of pyridine, 1.01 g of p toluenesolfonic chloride was added at room temperature. The solution was refluxed for 18 hours with molecular sieves. The solution vas cooled, diluted vith ethyl ether. The solution was washed vith water, dried and concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel using methylene chloride as an eluent to give 121 mg of the title compound having the following physical chatacteristics up 115 1200C TLC methylene chloride Rf 0.45 IR 1705, 1640, 1620, 1530, 1480, 1280, 1160cm 1 NMR 10.74 1H, s , 8.27 1H, d , 7,3 7.9 12H, m , 7.2 1H, d , 6.48 1H, d , 5.31 2H, s Mass m e 375 M , 375, 167.Reference Example 13 4 4 Pentylbenzenesulfonyl anisole To a. suspension of 7.7 g of aluminium chloride in 50 ml of dichlorpethane, 10 g of 4 methoxybenzesulfonyl chloride was added, and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes.Io the solution, 11 g of pentylbenzene was added and the solution was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. The reaction solution was poured into ice water. . The mixture was extracted with methylene chloride.The extract was washed with a IN aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide, water, a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride, successively, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, and concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography on. silica gel using methylene chloride as an eluent to give 15 g of the title compound having the following physical chracteristics. .3040, 2950, 2860, 1595, 1495, 1300, 1250, 1150, 1105, 1015, 835, 800cm 1 NMR 7.72 2H, d , 7.68 2H, d , 7.20 2H, d , 6.88 2H, d , 3.73 3H, s , 2.60 2H, t , 1.35 6H, m , 0.83 3H, t Mass m e 318 M , 262, 155, 123, 91. The next compound having the following physical characterisrics was given by the same procedure described in Reference Example 13 a 4Benzenesulfonylanisole Starting material 10 g of 4 methoxybenzenesulfonyl chloride and 7.6 g of benzene Yield 11.3 g IR v 3050, 2945, 2840, 1590, 1495, 1440, 1315, 1295, 1260, 1150, 1105, 1070, 1020, 835, 805, 755, 730, 705, 685, 655cm 1 7.9 7.6 4H, m , 7.4 7.3 3H, m , 6.88 2H, d , 3.77 3H, s Mass m e 248 N , 155, 123.Reference Example 14 4 4 Pentylphenylthio phenol To a solution of 15 g of 4 4 pentylbenzenesulfonyl anisole prepared in Reference Example 13 in 30 ml of toluene, 107 ml of a 1.76N diisobutylaluminium hydride in toluene was added with cooling with ice bath. After addiction, the solution was tefluxed for 22 hours.After cooling, an aqueous saturated solution of sodium potnssium tSrtrate was added to the solution. To the mixture, ethyl acetate was added. To the mixture, anhydrous magnesium sulfate was added, and the fixture was stirred well. The mixture was filtered, and the washings and filtrate was concentrated to give 10 g of oily residue.The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel using a mixture of ethyl acetate and hexane 1 20 as an eluent to give 7.45 g of the title compound having the following physical characteristics IR liquid film 3350, 3025, 2940, 2855, 1595, 1585, 1490, 1230 broad , 830 cm 1 7.18 2H, d , 7.00 4H, s , 6.72 2H, d , 2.50 2H, t , 1.3 6H, m , 0.87 3H, t Mass m e 272 M , 215, 183, 125, 91. The next compound having the following physical characteristics was given by the same procedure described in Reference Example 14 a 4 Phenylthiophenol Starting material 11 g of 4 benzenesulfonylanisole prepared in Reference Example 13 a Yield 4 g IR liquid film v w 3400, 3050, 1600, 1580, 1490, 1475, 1435, 1170, 830, 740, 690 cm 1 NMR Ï 7.3 7.0 7E, m , 6.62 2H, d , 5.80 111, broad s Mass m e 202 t , 183, 173, 141, 125, 115. Reference Example 15 2 Formyl 4 4 pentylphenylthio phenol To a solution of 4 4 pentylphenylthio phenol prepared in Reference Example 14 dissolved in 50 ml of benzene, 26.3 g of chloroform and 40 mg of tri n butylamine was added. To the solution, 17.7 g of a 50 aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide was added over a period of 30 minutes at 600C. The solution was stirred for 30 minutes at 600C. After cooling, the solution was adjusted to pH 3 by an addition of diluted sulfuric acid and stirred for 10 minutes. The solution was extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was washed with water and a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride and concentrated. The obtained residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel using a mixture of methylene chloride and n hexane l 5 as an eluent to give 960 mg of the title compound having the following physical characteristics N tR 10.90 1H, s , 9.68 1H, s , 7.47 2H, m , 7.06 4H, s , 6.87 111, d , 2.55 2H, t , 1.3 6H, m , 0.87 3H, t Mass m e 300 N , 243, 121, 115, 91. The next compound having the following physical characteristics was given by the same procedure described in Reference Example 15 a 2 Formyl 4 phenylthiophenol Starting material 7.9 g of 4 phenylthiophenol prepared in. Reference Example 14 a Yield 2 g TLC benzene ethyl acetate 50 1 Rf 0.73 NMR 10.85 1H, s , 9.55 1H, s , 7.46 1H, d , 7.38 1H, dd , 7.08 5H, s , 6.83 1H, d Mass mie 230 M , 201, 184, 171, 141, 110. Reference Example 16 2 Formyl 6 nitro 4 4 pentylphenylthio phenol A solution of 1.04 g of 2 formyl 4 4 pentylphenylthio phenol prepared in Reference Example 15 dissolved in 5.5 ml of acetic acid and 5.5 ml of methylene chloride was cooled with ice. To the solution, 405 mg of concentrated nitric acid was added slowly at OOC, and the solution was stirred for 30 minutes at the same temperature. The solution was extracted with methylene chloride after an addition of icewater. The extract was washed with an aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate, water and a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride, successively, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, and concentrated.The obtained residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel using a mixture of n hexane and ethyl acetate l0 l sa an eluent to give 760 mg of the title compound having the following physical characteristics NMR 11.20 1H, broad s , 10.23 1H, s , 8.15 1H, d , 7.97 111, d , 7.27 4H, m , 2.70 2H, t , 1.3 6H, m , 0.85 38, t Mass. m e 345 bi , 298, 242, 122, 115, 91. The next compound having the following physical characteristics was given by the same procedure described in Reference Example 16 a 2 Formyl 6 nitro 4 phenylthiophenol Starting material 2.0 g of 2 fornyl 4 phenylthiopnenol prepared in Reference Example 15 a Yield 1.4 g TLC benezene ethyl acetate 2 1 Rf 0.45 IR 3450, 3060, 2870, 1690, 1605, 1580, 1525, 1475, 1450, 1410, 1390, 1310, 1250, 1150, 1100, 1085, 1020, 935, 770, 740, 690 cm 1 11.20 1H, s , 10.09 1H, s , 8.15 1H, d , 7.92 1H, d , 7.21 5H, s Mass m e 275 N , 245, 227, 183, 171, 139.Reference Example 17 2 2 Ethoxycarbonyl 1E vinyl 6 nitro 4 4 pentylphenylthio phenol To a solution of 760 mg of 2 formyl 6 nitro 4 4 pentylphenyl thio phenol prepared in Reference Example 16 dissolved in 15 ml of chloroform, a solution of 767 mg of ethoxycarbonylvinylidene triphenylphosphorane in chloroform at room temperature. After stirring for 10 minutes at room temperature, the solution was concentrated.The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel using a mixture of methylene chloride and n hexane 10 1 as an eluent to give 434 mg of the title compound having the following physical characteristics IR v 3420, 3080, 2930, 2850, 1705, 1525, 1450, 1405, 1310, 1290, 1270, 1170, 1035, 985 cm 1 NMR 11.12 1H, broad s , 7.91 1H, d , 7.73 1H, d , 7.58 1H, d , 7.10 4H, m , 6.42 1H, d , 4.20 2H, q , 2.57 2H, t , 1.30 9H, s , 0.88 3E, t Nass m e 415 N , 369, 358, 312, 123, 91. The next compound having the following physical characteristics was given by the same procedure described in Reference Example 17 a 2 2 Ethoxycarbonyl 1E vinyl 6 nitro 4 phenylthiophenol Starting material 530 mg of 2 formyl 6 nitro 4 phenylthio phenol prepared in Reference Example 16 a Yield 500 mg TLC benzene ethyl acetate 2.1 Rf 0.68 IR 3450, 3075, 2990, 2930, 1705, 1605, 1530, 1450, 1405, 1320, 1290, 1280, 1160, 1095, 1045, 990, 755 cm 1 11.25 1H, s , 8.14 1H, d , 7.88 1H, d , 7.78 1H, d , 7.35 5H ,s , 6.59 11, d , 4.39 2H, q , 1.34 3H, t Mass m e 3A5 M , . 299, 252, 225, 197, 152. Example 1 1 Amino 6 2 ethoxycarbonyl 1E vinyl phenol hydrochloride. To a suspension of 1.0 g of 2 2 ethoxycarbonyl 1E vinyl 6 nitrophenol prepared in Reference Example 2 in 20 ml of water, 10 ml of concentrated aqueous ammoniua was added. To the solution, 7 g of sodium hydrosulfite in 70 ml of water was added at once and the solution was stirred at room temperature fpr 10 minutes. The reaction mixture vas extracted with chloroform, and the extract uas washed with a saturated aqueous sodium chloride, dried over anhyjdrpus magnesium sulfate, and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was puriffied bycolomm chromatography on silica gel using a mixed solvent of methylene chloride and methanol 10 1 as an eluent to give 800 mg of. the aniline compound.Obtained compound was dissolved in ethanol, added 0.5 ml of concentrated hydrochloric acid concentrated unaer reduced pressure, and dried in vacuo by vacuum pump. The residue was dissolved in ethanol and treated with active carbon, concentrated under reduced pressure, and dried in vacuo by vacuum pump to give 769 my of the title compound having the following physical characteristics mp 170 180 C decomposed TLC methylene chloride methanol lO l .Rf t 0.53 IR 420 3420, 3130, 2990, 2880 2600, 1700, 1630, 1590, 1570, 1530, 1470, 1395, 1370, 1335, 1315, 1300, 1275, 1225, 1195, 1100, 1025, 980, 860, 790cm 1 NMR methanol d6 8.03 1H, d , 7.70 1H, dd , 7.45 1H, dd , 7.06 1H, t , 6.57 1H, d , 4.27 2H, q , 1.34 3H, t Mass m e 207 M , 161, 133, 106, 104.The next compounds having the following physical characteristics were given from the corresponding nitro compound by the same procedure as described in Example 1 a 2 Amino 4 chloro 6 2 ethoxycarbonyl 1E vinyl phenol hydrochloride Starting material 450 mg of 4 chloro 2 2 ethoxycarbonyl lE vinyl 6 nitrophenol prepared in Reference Example 3. . Yield 336 ng mp 167 180 decomposed TLC ethyl ether Rf s 0.S8 as free amine IR v 3230, 2700, 2500, 1685, 1633, 1518, 1420, 1345, 1324, 1300, 1225, 1210, 1199, 1020, 973, 858 cm 1 NMR dimethylsulfoxide d6 7.92 1H, d , 7.66 1H, d , 7.42 1H, d , 6.68 1H, d , 4.23 1H, q , 1.28 3H, t Mass s c 241 M , 195, 167. b 2 Amino 4 chloro 6 4 ethoxycarbonyl 1E, 3E butadienyl phenol hydrochloride Starting material 511 ig of 4 chloro 2 4 ethoxycarbonyl 1E, 3E butadienyl 6 nitrophenol prepared in Reference Example 5 Yield 425 ig mp 150 180 C decomposed TLC ethyl ether Rf 0.52 IR 3400, 2330, 2525, 1687, 1620, 1466, 1262, 1185, 1145, 993,865cm 1 NMR methanol d6 acetone d6 8.79 7.06 5H, m , 6.15 1H, d , 4.23 2H, q , 1.70 3H, t Mass m e 267 M , 238, 222, 221, 204, 193, 177, 130. c Mixture of 2 amino 4 chloro 6 3 methoxycarbonyl 1E propenyl phenol hydrochloride and 2 amino 4 chloro 6 3 ethoxycarbonyl 1E propenyl phenol hydrochloride. Starting material 272 mg of 4 chloro 2 3 methoxycarbonyl 1E propenyl 6 nitrophenol prepared in Reference Example 6 Yield 265 mg mp 1300 155 C decomposed TLC ethyl ether Rf 0.41 as free amine IR v 3330, 3200, 2830, 2570, 1730, 1690, 1580, 1555, 1468, 1305, 1218, 1195, 1180, 1025, 960, 860 cmrt NMR methanol d4 7.52 1H, d , 7.35 1H, d , 6.80 1H, d , 6.30 1H, dt 4.20 q , 3.74 s , 3.37 2H, m , 1.29 t Mass m e 255 M ethyl compound , 241 M methyl compound . d 2 Amino 4 2 ethoxycarbonyl 1E vinyl phenol hydrochloride. Starting material 200 mg of 4 2 ethoxycarbonyl 1E vinyl 2 nirtophenol prepared in Referance Example 8 Yield 176 mg mp 1850C 195 C decomposed TLC chloroform ethanol 10 1 Rf 0.47 as free amine IR v w 3450, 2980, 2810, 2620, 2560, 1710 shoulder , 1675, 1620, 1500, 1445, 1370, 1290 shoulder , 1280, 1240, 1190, 1130, 1095, 1040, 980, 840 cm 1 7.6 3H, m , 7.10 1H, d , 6.43 1H, d , 4.24 2H, q , 1.32 3H, t Mass m e 207 M , 179, 162, 145, 135. e 2 Amino 6 methoxy 4 2 methoxycarbonyl lE vinyl phenol hydrochloride Starting material 300 mg of 2 methoxy 4 2 methoxycarbonyl lE vinyl 6 nitrophenol prepared in Reference Example 7 a Yield 50 mg np 193 198 C deconposed TLC methylene chloride methanol 10 1 Rf X 0.59 IR w 3460 broad , 2900 broad , 2590, 2560, 1705, 1625, 1600, 1570, 1520, 1510, 1465, 1440, 1430, 1315, 1295, 1270, 1240, 1220, 1160, 1110, 1065, 1035, 985, 945, 870, 845 cm 1 NMR methanol d4 7.61 1H, d , 7.28 2H, m , 6.48 1H, d , 3.99 3H, s , 3.79 3H, s Mass mie 223 M , 208, 192, 160, 132, 120. f 2 Amino 4 2 ethoxycarbonyl lE vinyl 6 methoxyphenol hydrochloride. Starting material 150 mg of 4 2 ethoxycarbonyl 1E vinyl 2 methoxy 6 nitrophenol prepared in Reference Example 8 a Yield 27 mg mp 160 175 C decomposed TLC methylene chloride methanol 10 1 Rf 0.66 IR v 3550, 3400 broad , 2990, 2830 broad , 2590, 2550, 1705, 1625, 1570, 1510, 1465, 1435, 1370, 1315, 1295, 1270, 1240, 1190, 1160, 1100, 1045, 985, 930, 880, 840cm 1 NMR methanol d4 6 7.60 1H, d , 7.28 2R, 5 , 6.47 1H, d , 4.25 2H, q , 3.99 3H, s , 1.33 3H, t Mass m e 7 237 M , 222, 209, 196, 192, 165, 160, 132, 120. g 2 Ainino 4 t butyl 6 2 ethoxycarbonyl 1E vinyl3phenol hydrochloride Starting material 500 mg of 4 t butyl 2 2 ethoxycarbonyl 1E vinyl phenol prepared in Reference Example 11 Yield 412 mg mp 165 175 C TLC methylene chloride methanol 10 1 Rf 0.51 IR 3430, 2980, 2580, 1710, 1635, 149b, 1400, 1370, 1285, 1210 shoulder , 1190, 1120, 1035, 980, 865, 830, 710 c, 1 NMR methanol d4 8.07 1H, d , 7.69 1H, d , 7.50 1H, d , 6.57 1H, d , 4.29 2H, q , 1.34 9H, s , 1.34 3H, t Mass m e 263, 248, 217, 202, 174, 162, 146, 134. h 2 Amino 4 2 4 biphenylmethoxycarbonyl 1E vinyl phenol Starting material 111 mg of 4 2 4 biphenylmethoxycarbonyl lE vinyll 2 n itrophenol prepared in Reference Example 12 Defference in procedure procedure into hydrochloride was not done Yield 61 mg np 205 C TLC cyclohexane ethyl acetate 1 1 Rf t 0.26 IR v 3400, 3350, 1690, 1630, 1595, 1515, 1275, 1160 cm 1 NMR methanol d4 7.2 7.8 10H, m , 7.04 1H, d , 6.86 1H, dd , 6.72 1H, d , 6.34 1H, d , 5.28 2H, s Mass m e 345 M , 178, 167. i 2 Amino 6 2 ethoxycarbonyl 1E vinyl 4 4 pentylphenylthio phenol hydrochloride Starting material 336 mg of 2 2 ethoxycarbonyl 1E vinyl 6 nitro 4 4 pentylphenylthio phenol prepared in Reference Example 17 Yield 66 mg IR v 3430, 3040, 2935, 2855, 2580, 1690, 1635, 1525, 1470, 1375, 1330, 1305, 1265, 1190 broad , 1115, 1020, 980, 860 cm 1 NMR methanol d4 6 7.95 1H, d , 7.60 1H, d , 7.29 1H, d , 7.28 2H, d , 7.18 2H, d , 6.43 1H, d , 4.24 2H, q , 2.60 2H, t , 1.60 2H, m , 1.33 7H, , 0.90 3H, t Mass m e 385 M , 339, 282, 133. j 2 Amino 6 2 ethoxycarbonyl 1E vinyl 4 phenylthiophenol hydrochloride Starting material 500 mg of 2 2 ethoxycarbonyl lE vinyl 6 nitro 4 phenylthiophenol prepared in Reference Example 17 a Yield 394 ing mp 169 1740C decomposed TLC penthylene chloride methanol 10 1 Rf 0.64 IR V 3450, 3050, 2980, 2850, 2580, 1710 shoulder , 1690, 1635, 1570, 1525, 1475, 1325, 1300, 1265, 1230 shoulder , 1190, 1110, 1030, 985, 865, 755, 745, 695 cm 1 NMR methanol d4 7.98 1H, d , 7.69 1H, d , 7.38 1H, d , 7.35 5H, s , 6.48 1H, d , 4.25 2H, q , 1.31 3H, t Mass m e 315, 269, 241, 212, 133. Examnle 2 2 Amino4 me thoxycarbonylmethylphenol hydrochloride. To a solution of 450 mg of 4 methoxycarbonylmethyl 2 nitrophenol prepared in Reference Example 7 dissolved in 10 ml of methanol, 60 mg of palladium carbon content 10Z was added and air in reaction vessel was replaced to hydrogen gas, the solution was stirred for 15 hours at room temperature. The catalyst was removed from the reaction solution by filtration, and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure.The residue was dissolved in methanol, addod 0.2 ml of concentrated hydrochloric acid, concentrated under reduced pressure, and dried in vacuo by vacuum pump. The residue was dissolved in ethanol, treated with active carbon, and dried in vacuo by vacuum pump to give 418 mg of the title compound having the following physical characteristics mp 195 2050C decomposed TLC chloroform methanol aqueous ammonia 60 6 1 Rf 0.45 IR v w 3240, 2950, 2860, 2600, 2580, 1705, 1645, 1610, 1580, 1535, 1515, 1455, 1440, 1370, 1335, 129, 1275, 1210, 1155, 1145, 1005, 900, 840, 810, 700 cm 1 NMR methanol d4 deuterochloroform 6 7.29 1H, d , 7.17 1H, dd , 7.00 1H, d , 3.68 3H, s , 3.60 2H, s Hass m e 181 K , 122, 94, 77.The next compound having the following physical characteristics was given from the corresponding nitrophenol compound by the same procedure as described in Example 2 a 2 Amino 4 2 athoxycarbonylethyl phenol hydrochloride. Starting material 200 mg of 4 2 ethoxycarbonyl 1E vinyl 2 nitrophenol prepared in Reference Example 8 Yield 170 mg mp 165 l890C decomposed TLC methylene chloride ethanol 10 1 Rf 0.44 as free amine IR 3450, 3070, 2980, 2570, 1735, 1635, 1560, 1510, 1470, 1450, 1370, 1350, 1290, 1255, 1210, 1125, 1040, 1025, 940, 825 cm 1 NMR methanol d4 6 7.22 1H, m , 7.15 1H, dd , 6.97 1H, d , 4.10 2H, q , 2.86 2H, t , 2.63 2H, t , 1.21 3H, t Mass m e 209 M , 181, 164, 135, 122, 91 b 2 Amino 4 t butyl 6 2 ethoxycarbonylethyl phenol hydrochloride Starting material 500 mg of 4 t butyl 2 t2 ethoxycarbonyl lE vinyl phenol prepared in Reference Example 11 Yield 250 mg p 115 120 C TLC chloroform methanol 10 1 Rf 0.62 IR v 3450, 2970, 2580, 1730, 1630, 1570, 1490, 1370, 1305, 1205, 1120, 1040, 880, 825, 740 cm 1 M R deuterochloroform methanol d 6 7.28 1H, d , 7.22 1H, d , 4.15 2R, q , 2.99 2H, t , 2.69 2H, t , 1.29 9H, s , 1.23 3H, t Mass m e 265, 219, 204, 177, 162.ExamDle 3 2 Amino 6 2 carboxy 1E vinyl phenol hydrochloride To a solution of 100 mg of 2 amino 6 2 ethoxycarbonyl 1E vinyl phenol hydrochloride prepared in Example 1 in 5 ml of methanol was added 2 ml of 2N aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide and the solution was stirred at 550C for 1 hour and 20 minutes. The solution was allowed to cool to room temperature, adjusted to pH 8 by addition of 1.5 ml of 2.4N hydrochloric acid, treated with active carbon, and concentrated under reduced pressure by vacuum pump. To the residue was added 15 ml of ethanol and 10 drops of concentrated hydrochloric acid, and the solution was refluxed and filtered at that temperature to remove insoluble sodium chloride.The filtrate was treated with active carbon, concentrated by vacuum pump to give 42 mg of the title compound having the following physical characteristics mp 206 207C TLC ethyl acetate Rf 0.43 IR v 3440, 1686, 1622, 1470, 1300 cm 1 NMR methanol d4 8.02 1H, d , 7.68 1H, dd , 7.35 1H, dd , 7.05 1H, t , 6.51 1H, d Mass m e 179, 161, 133. The next compound having the following physical characteristics was given by the same procedure described in Example 3, with the..exception of the procedure into hydrochloride a 2 Amino 6 2 carboxy 1E vinyl 4 4 pentylphenylthio phenol Starting material 160 mg of 2 amino 6 2 ethoxycarbonyl lE vinyl 4 4 pentylphenylthio phenol hydro chloride prepared in Example l i Yield 80 mg IR v 3430, 3040 shoulder , 2930, 2850, 1690, 1630, 1470, 1265, 1195, 975, 860 cm 1 NMR methanol d4 7.93 1H, d , 7.56 1H, d , 7.31 1H, d , 7.29 2H, d , 7.17 2H, d , 6.37 1H, d , 2.60 211, t , 1.61 2H, m , 1.34 4H, m , 0.90 3H, t Mass m e t 357 M , 339, 313, 282, 256, 133, 123, 91. Example 4 5 g of 2 Amino 6 2 ethoxycarbonyl lE vinyl phenol hydrochloride, 200 mg of cellulose magnesium gluconate disintegrating agent , 100 mg of magnesium, stcarate lubricating agent and 4.7 g of crystalline cellulose were adnixed and pur.ched out in a conventional manner to obtain 100 tablets containing 50 mg of the active ingredient in one tablet.