# Bubble composition using multi purpose surfactant base.

## Abstract
A bubble forming composition, suitable for use as a child s toy, comprises an aqueous solution of a cellulose ether and a mono or dicarboxylated imidazoline derivative of a fatty acid.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED 1. A bubble forming composition, which comprises an aqueous solution of frbm about 0.1 to about 5 by weight of a cellulose ether selected from the group consisting of hydrokypropyl methylcellulose and hydroxybutyl methylcellulose and mixtures of two or more thereof and from about 0.8 to about 15 by weight of an imidazoline surfactant of formula II EMI23.1 wherein R1 is an alkyl or alkenyl group derived from a fatty acid R2 is hydrogen, CH2COOM, CH2CH2COOM or M R3 is COOM, CH2COOM or CHOHCH2SO3M M is hydrogen, alkali metal or ammonium and A is hydroxy, chloride or sulfate or surface active sulfate or sulfate. 2. The composition according to claim 1, wherein said cellulose ether is a hydroxypropyl or hydroxybutyl methyl cellulose. 3. The composition according to claim 2, wherein cellulose ether has a methoxy content of from about 15 to about 35 by weight, and a hydroxypropoxyl or hydroxybutoxyl content of from about 2 to about 15 by weight 4. The composition according to claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein the cellulose ether is present in an amount of from about 0.5 to about 2.0 by weight. 5. The composition according to claim 2, whereinR1 is of 6 to 20 carbon atoms. 6. The composition according to claim 5, whereinR1 is cocoyl, stearyl, olelyl, lauryl or capryl. 7. The composition according to claim 2, wherein said imidazoline surfactant is selected from the group con sisting of cocoamphocarboxyglycinate and sodium lauryl sul fate and hexylene glycol, lauroamphoglycinate and Sodium Trideceth Sulfate, lauroamphocarboxyglycinate, cocoampho carboxyglycinate, caproamphoglycinate, cocoamphocarboxy glycinate and Sodium lauryl sulfate and Sodium Laureth Sulfate and propylene glycol and caproamphocarboxyglycinate. 8. The composition according to claim 2, wherein R2 is hydrogen, R3 is CHOHCH2S03Na, A is OH and R1 is cocoyl or lauryl. 9. The composition according to claim 5, 6, 7 or 8 wherein said ether is present in an amount of from about 0.1 to about 4 and imidazoline surfactant is present in an amount of from about 0.8 to about 8 by weight. 10. The composition according to claim 1, wherein there is also present at least one additive selected from the group consisting of o to about 10 fatty acid alkanolamide 0 to about 40 glycerin 0 to about 30 propyleneglycol and O to about 2 sodium lauryl sulfate all by weight.

## Description
BUBBLE COMPOSITION USING MULTI PURPOSE SURFACTANT BASE Soap bubbles are blown from water solutions comprising soap or another surfactant. A great variety of bubble solution formulations have been suggested to feature special effects in bubble making. There are solutions for making large bubbles, long lasting bubbles, deep colored bubbles, split bubbles, self healing bubbles, multiple bubbles, vanishing bubbles, flaking bubbles, bursting bubbles, high and or far flying bubbles, sinking bubbles etc. In general, many anionic, non ionic or amphoteric aqueous solutions with low surface tension lend themselves to bubble or foam making when air or other gases are blown into such solutions. Bubbles having special feature as described above require the use of a particular surfactant, with or without modifying agents. No single bubble solution is known with which to obtain more than one or two special effects. Whatever the special effect, each such solution features a separate and different base surfactant upon which the solution is built. All bubble solutions intended for use as a child s toy, must be non toxic and non irritating to skin and eyes before they can be marketed. Most of the published bubble formulations fail to meet this safety requirement. To have one single safe surfactant base which woul allow the formulator to make bubble solutions capable of exhibiting a variety of separate and different special effec be it by quantitative manipulation and or with the help of modifying additives, is a very desirable objective. This invention deals with such a multi purpose sufactant base. Using the surfactant base and the formulate as described in this specification, one can make A. Clear, bead forming bubbles that cling to almost any horizontal, vertical or curved surface, and which do not break when touching a solid dry object.Such bubbles remain a complete sphere, adhering only on one single point, either on grass, leaves, wood, concrete paper, metal, glass or most plastics. Such beads can stay in that position for minutes or many hours without collapsing, depending on the formulation. B. Long distance flying bubbles that withstand wind turbulence and even evade collisions. C. Astream of floating bubbles, about 80 to 120 per puff of air using a simple straw, which float for several minutes. D. A stream of vanishing bubbles, which disappear in 3 to 4 seconds. A pipe having several tubes can produce 300 to 400 or more vanishing bubbles that disappear within moments to create a most unusual effect. Such bubbles are dry to the touch, leave no visible trace and can be produced indoors. E. A cloud of bubbles that change to tiny white, slowly sinking flakes that give the impression of a snowfall. F. Bubbles that burst in air with a crackle. G. A stream of ghost bubbles . H. Bubbles that dry in air and form hollow bulls. The new surfactant base consists of a combination of two groups of chemicals, described as Group I and Group II, respectively. Group I comprises aqueous solutions of hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose and or. hydroxybutyl methylcellulose.These cellulose ethers contain methoxy groups and either hydroxypropyl or hydroxybutyl groups. Hydroxypropyl methylcellulose is thus the mixed hydroxypropyl and methyl ether of cellulose, and hydroxybutyl methylcellulose is the mixed hydroxybutyl and methyl ether. Useful Group I hydroxypropyl and hvdroxvbutvl methl celluloses are water soluble. Thus,a methoxy content of from about 15 to about 35 , preferably from about 20 to about 30 , by weight, and a hydroxypropoxyl or hydroxybutoxyl content of from about 2 to about 15 , preferably from about 4 to about 12 , by weight, will be suitable. Also useful is hydroxypropyl cellulose, which is manufactured by reacting alkali cellulose with propylene oxide at elevated temperature. Typical molecular weights range from 60,000 to 1,000,000, and the material is water soluble below 380C. Hydroxypropyl cellulose is the 2 hydroxypropyl ether of cellulose. Dow Chemical Company manufactures hydroxypropyl methylcellulose under the trade names METHOCEL HG, E, F, J, and K and hydroxybutyl methylcellulose under the trade name tETHOCEL HB. Premium grades are purer and are generally preferred. Hercules Incorporated manufactures hydroxypropyl cellulose under their KLUCEL trademark. The water soluble cellulose ethers of Group I differ from other water soluble film formers in two main respects which make them uniquely desirable as a base for bubble solutions. Water solutions of these cellulose ethers have considerable foaming properties by themselves when air is blown into such solutions they form stiff bubbles. Due to their unusual solubility properties, these cellulose ethers are different in many respects from most other water soluble film formers. They are soluble in cold water and insoluble in hot water. Their water solutions, when heated, become cloudy and gel and or precipitate on cooling,the solutions are restored. The solutions also gel with increasing concentration. Very thin layers of these water solutions release water from the films they form very quickly. The wall of a light weight bubble made from these solutions is such an extremely thin layer. I have discovered that bubbles made from these cellulose ethers in their solution start drying in the air, when they are allowed to float for at least 15 to 20 seconds. The drying proceeds to a jelly or even to a dry state. when the bubbles have reached the state of a clear jelly, they are strong enough not to break on contact with solid surfaces. They maintain a complete spherical shape and settle down on any solid surface, whether horizontal, vertical or curved. They touch only on one single point and may stay there for up to many hours before they finally collapse.Though those bubbles or clear beads cling to a support, even in an upside down position, they may bounce a few times before they come to a final landing.A child can catch such bubbles outdoors, e.g. with a plastic paddle and some skill , and take them home or he can line them up as in a shooting gallery and shoot them with a water pistol. when such bubbles are formulated to dry bevond thp. jelly state, they form opaque, hollow hulls These two properties of the substituted cellulose ethers of Group I are most important properties of the new base material bf the present invention. That they do not support bacterial growth and are non toxic and non irritating and compatible with a great variety of other materials, are additional helpful properties. The cellulose ethers are available in a wide variety of molecular weights and in various thermal gelation temperature ranges which influence their hardness of gel structure and the viscosities of the respective solutions. The available variety of the members of Group I, together with the variety of the members ofGroup II gives the formulator an almost unlimited latitude in preparing specialty bubble solutions. Useful water soluble cellulose ethers of Group I are commercially available from Dow Chemical Company under their Methocel trademark and from Hercules Incorporated under their Klucel trademark. The Examples employ the following cellulose ethers of Dow Chemical Company, all in the form of aqueous solutions Hydroxypropvl methvlcelluloseE 15 LV, E 50 LV, E 4M, all in the thermal gelation temperature range of 58 to 64 C.F 50 LV, F 4M, all in the thermal gelation temperature rangy of 62 68 C. K 35 LV, K 100 LC, K 4M, K 15M, all in the thermal gelation temperature range of 70 90 C. 60 HG 4M, 90 HG 15M All are Premium Grades. Hydroxybutvl methylcellulose Methocel HB The surfactants of Group II are mono or dicarboxy lated imidazoline derivatives of fatty acids of the formulaEMI6.1 wherein R1 is an alkyl or alkenyl group derived from a fatty acid R2 is hydrogen, CH2COOM, CH2CH2COOM or M R3 is COOM, CH2COOM or CHOHCH2S03M M is hydrogen, alkali metal or ammonium and A is hydroxy, chloride or sulfate or surface active sulfonate or sulfate. Preferred imidazoline airfactants have the formulasII A or II BEMI7.1 wherein R1 and A are as defined above d M is hydrogen, sodium or ammonium. Preferably, R1 is derived from a higher fatty acid of 6 to 20 carbon atoms, such as cocoyl , stearyl, olelyl or lauryl. The term cocoyl is used in the art to ean a mixture of alkyl and alkenyl derived from coconut acid of 6 to 18 carbon atoms, but mainly of 10, 12 and 14 carbon atoms. Useful surfactants of group II also include those compounds of formula II in which R3 is CHOHCH2SO3M, particularly those in which R1 is cocoyl and lauryl. The lauryl and cocovl derivatives tend to have a detoxifying effect and reduce the irritation effect of other components in the admixture. Useful imidazoline surfactants employed in theExamples that follow include the following materials supplie by Miranol Chemical Company, Irvington, New Jersey Trade Name Miranol 2MCACTFA Designation, 1981 Cocoamphocarboxyglycinate and sodium lauryl sulfate and hexylene glycolFormula IIB R1 is cocoyl, M is sodium and A is lauryl sulfTrade Name Niranol WET CTFA Designation, 1981 Lauroamphoglycinate and Sodium Trideceth SulfateFormula TIA R1 is lauryl, M is sodium and A is sulfate.Trade Name Miranol H2N Conc.CTFA Designation, 1981 Lauroamphocarboxyglycinate.Formula IIB R1 is lauryl, M is hydrogen, and A is OH.Trade Name Miranol C2M Conc.CTFA Designation, 1981 CocoamphocarboxyglycinateFormula IIB R1 is cocoyl, M is hydrogen and A is OH.Trade Name Miranol SM Conc.CTFA Designation, 1981 Caproamphoglycinate Formula IIA R1 is decanyl. M is and A is Trade Name Miranol 2 MCAS modified CTFA Designation, 1981 Cocoamphocarboxyglycinate and Sodium lauryl sulfate and Sodiur Laureth Sulfate and , propvlen glycolFormula SIB A mixture of compounds wherein R is cocyl, N is sodium and A is lauryl sulfate or laureth 3 sulfate. Trade Name Miranol S2M Conc. CTFA Designation, 1981 Caproarnphocarboxyglycinate Trade Name Miranol CS Conc. formula II R1 is cocoyl, R2 is H, R3 is CHOHCH2SO3Na and A is OH Trade Name Miranol HS Conc. Formula II R1 is lauryl, R2 R3 and A as in Miranol CS. All of the Group II surfactants are non toxic and non irritating to the skin and eyes. Some of them even have detoxifying properties in admixture with other materials which by themselves might be irritants. They reduce or eliminate irritation, even eye sting. one of the imidazoline derivatives alone, nor the cellulose eithers, can produce such potent bubble solutions as their mixtures together. Together they have a synergistic action. The quantities of the members of Groups T and II in the bubble solutions, and eventually other additives, determine the final character of the various specialty solutions Examples of useful additives are glycerine, propylene glycol, , sodium lauryl sulfate in small quantities, fatty acid alkanolamides, succinates and an more are possible. The ratios of the members of the Groups I and II to one another re within wide limits as may be the ratios of fatty acid alkanolamides, when used, to Group II members. Generally speaking, the cellulose either of Group I present in an amount of from about 0.1 to about 5 , preferably about 0.2 to about 4 , most preferably about 0.5 to about ji by weight. The amount of the Group II imidazoline surfactant ir from about 0.8 to about 15 preferably from about 2 to about most preferably from about 3 to about 6 , by weight. In gene as the amount of the cellulose ether increases, the viscosity of the solution also increases. Hence, it may be desirable to use lower molecular weight cellulose ethers when using more than about 40 of the cellulose ether solution. With respect to the imidazoline surfactant, there is no advantage in using more than is effective.Hence, while more than about 15 , or even up to about 8 lvill generally produce the desired effect. The other additives may include O to about 10 , preferably up to about 5.5 0 fatty acid alkanolamide O to about 40 , preferably up to about 30 glycerin O to about 30 , preferably up to about 15 propylene glycol and O to about 2 , preferably up to about 1 sodium lauryl sulfate It is preferred to prepare the bubble compositions of the invention by first preparing an aqueous solution of the Group I cellulose ethers and then adding the remaining, materials. It is not possible to dissolve the members of Group I in cold water or cold aqueous solutions, nor can one heat such solutions because of foaming and precipitation of the ethers.Aqueous solutions of Group I cellulose ethers are made by heating to about 90 C about 40 of the water needed to make the cellulose ether solution, adding to the hot water the powdered cellulose ether in small portions and then dispersing it with vigorous agitation.The heating is stopped and sufficient crushed ice and cold water are added to make up the remaining approximately 60 water. Continued vigorous agitation will dissolve the dispersed cellulose either in the cooled down water.This is a well known procedure. It is advisable not to exceed a temperature of 900C to avoid the formation of steam bubbles which would cause hard and persistent foam in the final solution. As mentioned earlier, those substituted ethers have bubble forming properties. Even without steam bubbles, it is necessary to let the finished solution stand for 24 hours or longer, to allow the entrapped air to escape. Some of these solutions are quite viscous. The present invention is illustrated by the following examples. Throughout the specification and claims, all parts and proportions are by weight, unless otherwise stated. The designation p w means parts by weight. EXAMPLE 1 15.0 p w Miranol 2MCA 47 active ingredients 85.0 p w 0.75 methyl hydroxy butyl cellulose ether 7.68 solids lOOT. This clear solution is not a specialty bubble solution, but a regular bubble solution. It comprises only two ingredients. A water solution of the lauric sulfate of a dicarboxymethylated derivative of cocoimidazoline, and a water solution of a methylcellulose ether with part of its methyl groups being substituted by hydroxybutoxyl. Using a conventional wand , one can make about 20 well sized bubblas as with commercial bubble solutions with one puff of air, the bubbles having various diameters of 2 to 3 inches or more This result cannot be achieved by using the aqueous solution of Miranol 2MCA alone or by using the solution of the hydroxy butylmethylcellulose ether alone. Nor can this result be obtained by replacing the cellulose ether solution with water in the above formula. Example 1 is given to demonstrate the fact that these two ingredients provide a bubble solution base by synergistic action. Other Examples will illustrate how such base formulations can be transformed into a range of specialty solutions using additives and or exchanging either the butylated ether by propylated ether or the Miranol 2MCA by other imidazoline derivatives or both or by making changes in the quantities of the ingredients. EXAMPLE 2 15.0 plw Miranol 2MCA 85.0 p w 2 solution of Hydroxy propylmethyl cellulose ether 60 HG With this solution one can make about 30 colored bubbles which turn into flakes. 8.75 solidsEXAMPLE 3 Exchanging the imidazoline derivative in Example 1, e.g. by using Miranol M T 34.5 active , gives a solution with which one can produce about 50 to 80 quickly disappearing bubbles. 7.68 solids Still musing only two basic ingredients of Examples 1 to 3 but shifting quantities will give solutions which show some specialty effects .EXAMPLE 4 50.0 p w of 0.75 hydroxy butylmethyl cellulose solution 50.0 p w Miranol MHT. 17.62 solids With this solution one can produce 50 to 60 floating bubbles with one puff of air, lasting about 20 seconds.EXAMPLE 5 30.0 p w Miranol 2MCA 70 p w 1 90 HG Hydroxy propylmethyl cellulose ether 14.8 solids With this solution one can produce 40 to 50 bubbles, changing to flakes. However, the foregoing Examples, because of cost, performance and other considerations are not as practical as compared with other solutions of this nature, using additives and other combinations as will be illustrated by the nextExamples. Examples for bead forming solutions EXAMPLE 6 1.5 p w lauric acid 1 1 diethanolamide 12.0 p w Miranol 2MCA 70.0 p w 4 solution E 50 LV hydroxy propylmethyl cellulose 50 cps 13.0 p w glycerin 3.5 plw water 9.94 solids With this solution one can make long floating bubbles which, when allowed to float at least for 15 to 20 seconds, will eventually settle down on the ground or cling to other solid objects without breaking.Such bubbles form transparent, completely spherical beads which cling to solid objects just with one single point of their surface and can stay there for many hours before collapsing to a jelly mass.EXAMPLE 7 12.0 plw Miranol 2MCA 73.0 p w 4 K 35 LV hydroxy propylmethyl cellulose 35 cps 15.0 p w glycerin With this solution one can produce bubbles which behave like those described in Example 6. 8568 o solids The viscosity information refers to 2 aqueous solution at 20 C. EXAMPLE 8 12.0 plw Miranol 2MCA 40.0 p w 2 60 HG 4000 cps hydroxy propyl methylcellulose 13.0 p w 1.5 HB hydroxy butylmethylcellulose ether 12,000 cps 20.0 p w .75 HB hydroxy butylmethylcellulose ether 12,000 cps 15.0 glycerin This solution, likewise, is bead forming. 8.64X solids EXAMPLE 9 10.0 p w Miranol 2MCA 30.0 p w glycerin 40.0 p w 2 F 4M cellulose ether solution 20.0 p w water 5.5 solids This solution yields deep colored, very far and long flying bubbles with one half inch tubes.EXAMPLE 10 12.0 p w Miranol CS Sulfonate 13.0 p w glycerin 75.0 p w 1 solution of 90HG hydroxy pripylmethylcellulose Bead forming liquid. 6.75 solidsEXAMPLE 11 20 0 p w Miranol MHT 20.0 p w hydroxy butylmethylcellulose HB 0.75 30.0 p w 1 selution 90HG Premium 30.0 p w glycerin Bead forming liquid. 7.45 solids In many instances the cellulose ethers as well as the imidazoline derivatives are interchangeable against other members of their respective groups within the same formulation, sometimes with small quantitive corrections but without changing the character of the specific specialty solution. Examples 6 11 are just a few of such possibilities. All of Examples 6 11 represent bead forming solutions. When such interchanges are made, the result might sometimes change in the sense that the number of beads or their life time might be different, the latter ranging from minutes to hours, mostly hours. For example, beads obtained with the solution of Example 6 have been observed to stay up to 36 hours before collapsing.Such beads may be caught in the air with plastic, wooden or cardboard paddles on which they can be carried around, or they can be lined up to form a shooting gallery to be shot at with water pistols. This gives a new valuable play value to the old bubble toy. what has been said about interchangeability of the members of Groups I and II, is also true for the formulation of other specialty solutions in the Examples which will follow. However, there is no interchangeability for additives to the base materials of Group I and I without changing the character of such specialty solutions.EXAMPLE 12 7.7 p w Miranol MHT 35.5 active 16.0 p w 2 60G solution 4.0 p w glycerin 5.4 p w lauric diethanolamide 66.9 p w water 8.45 solids With this solution, using a 4mm diameter straw, one can produce with one puff of air 80 to 110 very long floating bubbles. EXAMPLE 13 A similar result can be obtained by exchanginç inExample 12, the 7.7 p w tET with 5.7 p w Miranol 2MCA 47 active and adding 0.6 p w sodium lauric sulfate, the water content to be adjusted to 68.1 p.w. 9.0 Xv solids In some combinations of members of Group I andGroup II, as in the above case, the presence of a little sodium lauryl sulfate is desirable to improve the appearance of the solutions, helping them to stay clear.EXAMPLE 14 5.7 plw Miranol 2MCA 10.0 p w 4 E 50 LV solution 4.0 p w glycerin 4.0 p w lauric diethanolamide .5 piw sodium lauryl sulfate 75.8 p w water 7.7 solids One puff of air produces 90 to 110 long floating beautifully colored bubbles turning to ghost bubbles.EXAMPLE 15 5.0 p w Miranol C2M 37.0 p w 2 60 HG solution 3.0 plw glycerin 5.0 p w lauric diethanolamide 50.0 water 8.24 solids 100 to 120 very long floating beautifully colored bubbles turning to ghost bubbles.EXAMPLE 16 Exchange in Example 15 Miranol C2N with Miranol SM and get a similar result.EXAMPLE 17 5.0 p w Miranol CS 16.0 p w 2 60 HG solution 8.0 p w glycerin 5.0 p w lauric diethanolamide .4 p w lauryl sodium sulfate 65.6 water About 90 colored, floating bubbles. 7.72 solids EXAMPLE 18 5.3 p w Miranol 2MCA 26.5 p w 0.75 HB solution 10.0 p w glycerin 5.0 p w lauric diethanolamide .6 plw sodium lauryl sulfate 52.0 plw water 100 to 120 colored bubbles 8.29 solidsEXAMPLE 19 4.8 p w Miranol 2MCA 45.0 p w 4 E 5Q LV solution 14.0 p w 5 E 15 LV solution 5.0 p w glycerin .8 p w sodium lauryl sulfate 4.5 p w lauric diethanolamide 25.9 p w water . 10.05 solids The bubbles formed by this solution exhibit a strange show. When drifting towards a wall, trees or going doam towards the ground, they come very close, about one inch, then they change direction and float along a wall upwards or sidewards or float just above the floor or go around a tree, always avoiding collision at the last moment. Only a very few might collide and change to a flake.EXAMPLE 20 20.0 p w Miranol MHT 50.0 p w 1 90 HG solution 15.0 p w glycerin 15.0 p w propylene glycol 7.5 solids One would expect this formula would yield a beadforming solution, but the presence of the propylene glycol changes this solution to one which yields 80 to 90 beautifully deep colored bubbles, and no beads. EXAMPLE 21 12.0 p w Miranol 2MCA 73.0 p w 1 90 HG solution 15.0 p w glycerin 6.39 solids This solution yields about 30 to 40 colored bubbles, most of them forming long lasting beads or, when wind driven being long distance bubbles some turning into big flakes.EXAMPLE 22 A somewhat similar result may be obtained by using a 3 K 100 solution in place of 1 90 HG solution in Example 22. This gives a perfect bead forming solution. 7.85 solidsEXAMPLE 23 Likewise, using a 2 60 HG solution in Example 22 in place of the 1 90 HG solution gives a similar result. 7.1 solidsEXAMPLE 24 20.0 p w Miranol MHT 50.0 p w 1 90 HG solution 30.0 p w glycerin 7.5 solids About 80 colored, very long floating bead forming bubbles. EXAMPLE 25 5.4 p w Miranol 2MCA 16.0 p w 1 90 HG solution 9.0 p w propylene Glycol 5.0 p w lauric diethanolamide .8 p w sodium lauryl sulfate 63.8 p w water 8.49 solids By using a multiple head pipe as described in U.S.Patent 4,246,717, one can produce with one puff of air a cloud of several hundreds of bubbles which completely and tracelessly disappear within four seconds. This is not only a weird effect, but also makes indoor use possible they also crackle. EXAMPLE 26 .90 plw Miranol C2N 1.10 p w Miranol SN 1.90 p w Miranol 2MCA .90 p w Miranol MHT 1.50 p w Standapol SH 100 Na2 Monooleamido Sulfosuccinate 30 15.00 p w 2 60 HG solution 4.00 plw glycerin 2.00 p w propylene glycol 5.50 p w lauric diethanolamide .50 p w sodium lauryl sulfate 66.70 p w water 9.0 solids Yields 80 to 90 long floating bubbles EXAMPLE 27 12.0 p w Miranol 2MCA 86.5 p w 2 60 HG or 1 90 HG solution 1. S plw lauric diethanolamide 8.15 solids Solution yields 60 to 80 colored bubbles which change to slowly sinking white flakes. With multiple head pipe, it looks like light snowing. EXAMPLE 28 4.8 p w Miranol 2MCA 40.0 plw 4 E 50 LV solution 20.0 p w 5 E 15 LV solution 3.8 p w glycerin 4.5 p w lauric diethanolamide .6 p w sodium lauryl sulfate 26.3 plw water 9.95 solids About 80 bubbles turning totaly to thin flakes. When it is desirable to obtain mainly a large number of bubbles with this type of bubble liquid, the addition of fatty acid alkanolamides has shown to be helpful, though not absolutely necessary. In the Examples, lauric acid 1 1 diethanolamide was used, however, other fatty acid diethanolamides can also be used. It is known that when fatty acid alkanolamides are used for that purpose, their effectiveness depends a great deal on proper ratios with respect to other surfactants in the formula. It was found that this rule does not apply to the members of Group II of these bubble bases. An entire line of different ratios of lauric acid diethanolamide to various water free members of Group II in the formulations was tested with the result that there was no basic difference in the performance among such tested solutions with ratios ranging from 0.07 1 to 4 1. However, the solids content of the various solutions, in particular the concentration of the fatty acid alkanolamide has an influence on the behavior of the various specialty solutions, making solutions with lower concentration working less spectacularly, though still yielding good bubble solutions.As an example EXAMPLE 29 2.12 p w Miranol 2MCA 18.0 p w 2 60 HG solution 2.0 p w lauric acid dietbanolamide 4.0 p w glycerin .8 p w sodium lauryl sulfate 73.08 p w water 4.1 solids With this solution, one can produce about 50 colored, floating bubbles. EXAMPLE 30 6.0 p w Miranol 2MCA 18.0 p w 2 60 HG solution .2 p w lauric acid diethanolamide 4.0 p w glycerin 71.8 p w water 3.36 solids This solution yields about 20 colored bubbles, some of them floating 40 to 50 seconds this solution has also a ratio of 0.07 1 see above . The Examples in this specification are a selection from many hundreds of experiments which have been made. They all indicate that with relatively few and simple modifications additives and or quantitative changes to the basic materials of Groups I and II, astonishing and completely different effects can be achieved. The described solutions come in all grades of viscosities, from low to quite high.