# Chromones.

## Abstract
7 3 Propylamino 2 hydroxypropoxy 2 phenyl 3 R3 chromone cpds. of formula I and their pharmaceutically acceptable salts are new where R1 is i , n or cyclopropyl and R3 is H or Ph, provided that R1 is n or cyclopropyl when R3 is H . I are antihypertensives, giving long term activity e.g. 24 hrs. at relatively low doses, without beta adrenergic blocking effects. Daily doses are e.g. 0.1 150, pref. 0.1 50 mg p.o. or 0.1 40, pref. 0.1 10 mg parenterally. 5 Cpds. I , e.g. 7 3 n propylamino 2 hydroxypropoxy 2,3 diphenylchromone hydrochloride are specifically claimed.

## Claims
Example 7 Preparation of 6 2 Hydroxy 3 isopropylamino propoxy flavone hydrochloride 6 2,3 Epoxypropoxy flavone This epoxypropyl ether was obtained in 65 yield from 6 hydroxyflavone according to Method A. 6 2 Hydroxy 3 isopropylaminopropoxy flavone hydrochloride The reaction of the above epoxide with isopropylamine according to Method B yielded after recrystallization from n butanol 49 product, melting at 209 2110. Anal. Calc d. for C21H24ClNO4 C, 64.69 H, 6.20 C1, 9.09 N, 3.59 0, 16.41. Found C, 64.59 H, 6.61 C1, 9.64 N, 3.40 0, 16.02. This compound is disclosed in the People s Republic of China article published in Acta Pharmaceutica, 15 253 1980 , previously identified herein. Example 8 Pharmacology Data Antihypertensive activity was determined in the spontaneously hypertensive rat. Animals were dosed with compound or control vehicle following a control blood pressure systolic and heart rate determination made by means of an inflatable tail cuff. Measurements were contained at 2, 5, 7.5 and 24 hours post dosing. Five animals per test group were employed. A 10 decrease in systolic blood pressure which was statistically different from both the control animals and the post dosage measurement is classified as minimal activity. The following table gives minimal dosage required for minimal activity at 5 and 24 hours for the compounds of the prior examples. Pharmacology DataExample No. R1 R3 Minimum Effective Dosage mg. kg. 5 hours 24 hours 1 i propyl phenyl 8 17 2 n propyl phenyl 8 8 3 cyclopropyl hydrogen 8 35 4 cyclopropyl phenyl 8 24 5 n propyl hydrogen 10 45 6 i propyl methyl 75 not effective 7 i propyl hydrogen 75 not effective These compounds do not exhibit beta blocking activity when determined as antagonism of isoproterenolinduced beta stimulation of isolated rat heart or inhibition of isoproternol induced effects on the cardiovascular system of the anesthetized rat. ly converting the amine in its pharmaceutically acceptable salt. 2. The process of claim 1 wherein R1 is n propyl. 3. The process of claim 1 wherein R3 is phenyl. 4. The process of claim 3 wherein 7 3 n propylamino 2hydroxypropoxy 2,3 diphenylchromone hydrochloride is prepared. 5. The process of claim 3 wherein 7 2 hydroxy 3 isopropylaminopropoxy 2,3 diphenylchromone hydrochloride is prepared. 6. The process of claim 1 wherein 7 3 cyclopropylamino 2 hydroxypropoxy flavone hydrochloride is prepared. 7. The process of claim 1 wherein 7 3 cylcoproylamino2 hydroxypropoxy 2,3 diphenylchromone is prepared. 8. The process of claim 1 wherein 7 3 n propylamino2 hydroxypropoxy flavone hydrochloride is prepared.

## Description
CHROMONESBackground of the Invention This is a continuation in part of my copending applications, U. S. Serial No. 259,387 and U. S. SerialNo. 259,403. This invention relates to chromone derivatives substituted by 3 amino 2 hydroxypropoxy side chains, medicinal preparations containing the same, and the utilization of such preparations as antihypertensive agents in animals. Compounds related to propranolol, a potent beta blocker, constitute a large class of compounds which have profound effects on the cardiovascular system and have found utility as antihypertensive, antidysrhythmic and antianginal drugs. However, the beta blocking properties of these compounds are often undesirable, especially in patients with coronary insufficiencies and bronchial diseases. A compound devoid of beta blocking effect but retaining antihypertensive effect on the blood pressure of warm blooded animals has therefore long been sought. Several patents disclose various compounds which either have beta blocking properties or do not have antihypertensive effects. U. S. Patent No. 3,891,651 discloses compounds which are amides and, it is thought, the nitrogen of the amide which is contained in the isoquinoline fragment is likely to be responsible for any activity in that compound. U. S. Patent No. 3,816,470 discloses various salts of secondary amines with chromone 2 carboxylic acids. U. S. Patent No. 3,812,156 discloses a method of preparing ethyl flavone 7 oxyacetate. U. S. Patent No. 3,352,754 discloses simple 7 hydroxy or 7 alkoxy isoflavones which are not amines and which are used for various inflaiamatory disorders. U. S. Patent No. 3,219,531 discloses 5,7 dioxyacetic acid flavone compounds, but no amine functions are present. U. S.Patent No. 3,046,275 discloses 7 dialkylaminoalkoxy derivatives but does not contain any of the hydroxyl groups of the side chain which is central for activity. Various monodialkylaminoethyl ethers of quercetin are disclosed in U. S. Patent No. 2,861,992, but do not contain 3 amino 2 hydroxypropoxy side chains. Also not containing that side chain are the compounds disclosed inU. S. Patent No. 2,897,211. Several flavones are disclosed in an article published in Acta Pharmaceutica Sinica,l5 253 1980 in the Peoples Republic of China, where lack of betablocking is reported. There is no suggestion that the compounds have antihypertensive properties.Summary of the Invention It has now been found that a marked reduction in the blood pressure of warm blooded animals can be achieved, without beta blocking effects in the beta adrenergic nervous system, by administering to the animal, in an amount effective to reduce hypertension, a chromone of the formula EMI2.1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof wherein R is i propyl, n propyl, or cyclopropyl, R3 is phenyl or hydrogen and provided, however, that R1 is cyclopropyl or n propyl when R3 is hydrogen. These compounds have unexpectedly superior antihypertensive properties, especially in tenns of being able to achieve long term activity e.g., 24 hours at relatively low dosages. The compounds are usually mixed with a pharmaceutical carrier so that the composition for commercial use contains 0.5 to 20 by weight of the compound. The compositions are normally adapted for peroral or parenteral use, but may be used in other forms such as suppositories. The peroral compositions are preferably in the form of tablets, capsules or suspensions, while the parenteral composition is preferably an injectable solution or suspension. Examples of suitable inert pharmaceutical carriers are celluloses particularly microcrystalline celluloses , sugar syrups, potato starch, talcum, polyethylene glycols and lactose. Examples of suitable acids for forming the acid addition salts are maleic acid, hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid, phosphoric acid, methanesulfonic acid, tartaric acid, citric acid, and the cation exchange resins such as the carboxylic acid, phosphonic acid and sulfonic acid resins. For sustained release, a coated complex of the compound absorbed onto an ion exchange resin may be employed in accordance with the teaching of BritishPatent 1,544,761. The usual peroral dosage of the compound is 0.1 to 150 mg. per day preferably 0.1 to 50 mg. while the parenteral dosage is normally 0.1 to 40 mg. per day preferably 0.1 to 10 mg. The capsules, tablets, syrups and suspensions of the compounds are prepared by conventional procedures. It should be noted that the compounds of this invention are antihypertensive agents, not hypotensive agents, i.e., they reduce the blood pressure to normal but not below normal. Detailed Description The compounds of formula 1 above can be prepared by reacting epichlorohydrin or epibromohydrin with a compounds of the formulaEMI4.1 wherein R3 is the same as defined above and OR5 represents a hydroxyl group substituted on the 7 position, in the presence of a solvent and a base to give a product of formula 2 where ORg isEMI4.2 This epoxide is allowed to react with an amine, R1NH2 where R1 is as above defined, in an alcoholic solvent at elevated temperature to afford a product of formula 1 . P. Da Re et al., J. Med. Chem., Vol. 15, 868 869 1972 , describe the testing of chromones as in formula 1 , but where R3 is methyl, for beta adrenergic blocking activity. Da Re et al. found that all the compounds were devoid of beta blocking activity, suggesting that chromones would not be expected to have antihypertensive properties. Additionally, ethanolamine anologues of theDa Re et al. materials are disclosed in Vol. 15 pages 198 199 of the J. Med. Chem., 1972 . These analogues are beta blockers, typical of the pronethalol type which owe their activity to the 2 isopropylaminoethanol side chain Typical 3 amino 2 hydroxypropoxy side chain furochromone compounds are disclosed in papers presented in Drugs of the Future, Vol. III, No. 8 1978 , pages 569 571 Drugs of the Future, Vol.III, No. 11, 1978 , pages 816 818 and Therapie, 1977 , Vol. 32, pages 111 120. None of these references, of course, even suggest that antihypertensive activity may be possible with or without beta blockade. None of these references disclose the compounds of this invention. The following general procedures are used in the examples to follow A. For Epoxides Epichlorohydrin or epibromohydrin greater than 2 equivalents is added in the presence or absence of nitrogen to a stirred solution or suspension of the hydroxy chromone derivative in solvents, such acetone, aqueous ethanol, 50N0 aqueous dimethylsulfoxide DMSO or water, containing a suitable base, such as potassium carbonate or sodium hydroxide, with or without sodium iodide. The reaction is allowed to proceed either at room temperature or elevated temperature and monitored by thin layer chromatography tlc . Product formed as solid is then collected and washed with water. The mother liquor is diluted with water and extracted with chloroform CHCl3 to give more product. Where the product is soluble in solvents, the reaction mixture is filtered off and the solids washed with the solvent. The filtrate is evaporated to give a solid which is washed with water to get rid of remaining traces of the base.Yield is in the 60 to 80 range. This material is usually used directly for further reaction without purification.B. For Epoxide Ring Opening With Amine and the AmineSalt Formation A white suspension of the chromone epoxide, amine, such as low large excess and high 10 excess boiling point amines, an alcoholic solvent, methanol A.R. ethanol abs. or isopropyl alcohol, is heated at elevated temperatures until the starting material is gone as followed by tlc . Since the reaction product is usually soluble in the alcohol, the precipitate is filtered off and the filtrate is evaporated to give a viscous liquid which, upon addition of anhydrous ether or alcohol, crystallizes out. When the product is insoluble in alcohol at the end of the reaction, it is collected. Purification of the amine derivative is performed via acid base work up, column chromatography or recrystallization.The amine obtained is either suspended or dissolved in an alcohol, and then acidified with an alcohol solution saturated with hydrogen chloride or other acid to a pH of 1. The salt formed is precipitated out directly or by addition of anhydrous ether. The salt is then recrystallized from suitable solvents.Example 1 Preparation of 7 2 hydroxy 3 isopropyl aminopropoxy 2, 3 diphenylchromone hydrochloride 7 2 ,3 Epoxypropoxy 2,3, diphenylchromone To a solution of 50 aqueous DMSO 280 ml , containing sodium hydroxide 5.60 g, 140 mmol was added 7 hydroxy 2,3, diphenylchromone 44.01 g, 140 mmol and the resultant mixture was sitrred until most of the solid went into the solution. Epichlorohydrin was then introduced into the suspension. The solution was stirred at room temperature RT for 2.5 days and solid formed during the reaction was collected from time to time about twice a day . The white solid total 47.58 g was recrystallized from isopropyl alcohol several times to afford 28.15 g of relatively pure white prisms, m.p. 143 1450 yield 54 .The mother liquor was concentrated to produce more crystals. 7 2 Hydroxy 3 isopropylaminopropoxy 2, 3 diphenyl chromone hydrochloride A white suspension of relatively pure 7 2,3 epoxypropoxy 2,3 diphenylchromone 27.78 g, 75 mmol , isopropylamine 18.8 ml , and methanol A. R., 150 ml was heated under nitrogen at 550C until complete disappearance of the starting epoxide. The white precipitate 1.09 g in the cooled reaction mixture was filtered off, and the filtrate was evaporated to a golden syrup. Anhydrous ether was added, and white crystals 28.07 g were obtained. It was column chromatographed over silica gel. This purificaiton yielded 24.05 g of white crystals, m.p. 152 154 75 . The amine thus obtained was dissolved in 100 ml ofMeOH A. R. and treated with saturated solution of hydrogen chloride in ethanol until the solution was pH 1. The hydrochloride salt was precipitated out by addition of anhydrous ether. A white solid was collected and recrystallized from MeOH ether also decolorized with a small amount of activated charcoal to produce 21.6 g 83 yield of pure white crystals, m.p. 164 166 . Anal. Calc d. for C27H28ClN04.H2O C, 67.00 H, 6.25 C1, 7.32 N, 2.89. Found C, 67.10 H, 5.95 C1, 7.19 N, 2.65.Example 2 Preparation of 7 3 n propylamino 2 hydroxypropoxy 2,3 diphenylchromone hydrochloride The free base was prepared according to Method B from n propylamine and 7 2,3 epoxypropoxy 2,3 diphenylchromone in 65 yield as white prisms, m.p. 140 142 iPrOH . The hydrochloride salt was obtained in 95 yield as white prisms, m.p. 134 1360 iPrOH Example 3 Preparation of 7 3 cyclopropylamino 2 hy droxypropoxy flavone hydrochloride Using Method B, the amine was prepared from cyclopropylamine and 7 2 ,3 epoxypropoxy flavone and purified by column chromatography, yield 26 . Treatment of the free base with HCl EtOH solution gave the hydrochloride salt in 95 yield, m.p. 2140 MeOH ether . Anal. Calc d. for C21H22ClNO4 C, 65.03 H, 5.71 C1, 9.14 N, 3.61 O, 16.49. Found C, 64.82 H, 5.81 C1, 9.27 N, 3.65 0, 16.78. Example 4 Preparation of 7 3 cyclopropylamino 2 hydroxypropoxy 2,3 diphenylchromone The amine was prepared according to Method B from cyclopropylamine and 7 2,3 epoxypropoxy 2,3 diphenyl chromone and purified by high pressure liquid chromatography to give white crystals, m.p. 135 1370 MeOH ether , in 25 yield.Example 5 Preparation of 7 3 n propylamino 2 hydroxypropoxy flavone hydrochloride Using Method B, the reaction of 7 2,3 epoxypropoxy flavone and n propylamine afforded the hydrochloride in 48 yield, m.p. 234 2350 methanol . Its corresponding free base had a m.p. of 140 1450. Anal. Caletd. for C21H24ClNO4 C, 64.69 H, 6.20 Cl, 9.09 N, 3.59 H, 16.41. Found C, 64.60 H, 6.37 C1, 8.44 N, 3.48 0, 16.57 Example 6 Preparation of 3 Methyl 7 3 isopropylamino 2 hydroxypropoxy flavone hydrochloride 3 Methyl 7 2,3 epoxypropoxy flavone Using MethodA, 3 methyl 7 hydroxyflavone was converted to its corresponding 7 epoxypropyl ether, m.p. 231 2350 crude yield 86 . 3 Methyl 7 2 hydroxy 3 isopropylaminopropoxy flavone hydrochloride The amine salt was prepared as described in Method B to give a white solid, m.p. 120 122 EtOH ether yield 47 . The free base had a m.p. of 141 1440. Anal. Calc d. for C22H26ClNO4 C, 65.42 H, 6.48 Cl, 8.77 N, 3.46 0, 15.84. Found C, 65.62 H, 6.61 Cl, 8.51 N, 3.33, 0, 15.30. This compound is disclosed in the P. Da Re article referred to herein above. WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. Chromone having the formulaEMI9.1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof wherein R is i propyl, n propyl, or cyclopropyl, R3 is phenyl or hydrogen and provided, however, that R1 is cyclopropyl or n propyl when R3 is hydrogen. 2. The chromone of claim 1 wherein R1 is n propyl.3. The chromone of claim 1 wherein R3 is phenyl.4. The chromone of claim 3, 7 3 n propylamino 2 hydroxypropoxy 2 ,3 diphenylchromone hydrochloride.5. The chromone of claim 3, 7 2 hydroxy 3 isopropylaminopropoxy 2,3 diphenylchromone hydrochloride.6. The chromone of claim 1, 7 3 cyclopropylamino2 hydroxypropoxy flavone hydrochloride.7. The chromone of claim 1, 7 3 cyclopropylamino2 hydroxypropoxy 2,3 diphenylchromone.8. The chromone of claim 1, 7 3 n propylamino 2hydroxypropoxy flavone hydrochloride. CLAIMS FOR AUSTRIA 1. Process for the production of a chromone having the formula 1 EMI10.1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof wherein R is i propyl, n propyl, or cyclopropyl, R3 is phenyl or hydrogen and provided, however, that R1 is cyclopropyl or n propyl when R3 is hydrogen, characterized by reacting epichlorohydrin or epibromohydrin with a compound of the formula 2 EMI10.2 wherein R3 is the same as defined above and OR5 represents a hydroxyl group substituted on the 7 position, in the presence of a solvent and a base to give an epoxide product of formula 2 where OR5 isEMI10.3 and reacting this epoxide with an amine, R1NH2 where R1 is as above defined, in an alcoholic solvent at elevated temperature to afford a product of formula 1 and optional