# New compounds with antiinflammatory and antitussive activity, process for their preparation and relative pharmaceutical compositions.

## Abstract
N Pyridil amides of 1 phenyl cyclopentancarboxylic acid having formula I

## Claims
Claims 1. N Pyridyl amides of 1 phenyl cyclopentan carboxylic acid having formula I EMI16.1 wherein Py is the pyridine ring, eventually substituted with one or more methyl groups or chlo rine atoms. 2. As a compound according to claim 1, 2phenyl cyclopentyl carbonyl aminopyridine. 3. As a compound according to claim 1, 3 Lt1 phenyl cyclopentyl carbonyl aminopyridine. 4. As a compound according to claim 1, 2 1 phenyl cyclopentyl carbonyl amino 4 methyl py ridine. 5. As a compound according to claim 1, 2 1 phenyl cyclopentyl carbonyl amino 6 methyl pyridine. 6. As a compound according to claim 1, 2 t1 phenyl cyclopentyl carbonyl amino 3 methyl py ridine. 7. As a compound according to claim 1, 2 Z 1 phenyl cyclopentyl carbonyl amino 4,6 dimethylpyridine. 8. As a compound according to claim 1, 2 Z 1 phenyl cyclopentyl carbonyl amino 5 chloropyri dine. 9. Process for the preparation of compounds aocording to claims 1 8, characterized in that activated derivatives of 1 phenyl cyclopentan car boxylic acid, having general formula it , are reacted with aminopyridines III , according toEMI17.1 wherein X is an halogen atom, or an alcoxy group, or a residue transforming II in an homogeneous or mixed anhydride R and R , which can be the sa me or different, are hydrogen atoms, methyl groups or chlorine atoms. 10. Pharmaceutical compositions endowed with anti tussive and antiinflammatory activity, charaoteri zed by containing as an active principle a compound according to claims 1 8. Claims 1. Process for the preparation of compounds having formula IEMI18.1 wherein Py is the pyridine ring, eventually sub stituted with one or more methyl groups or chlo rine atoms characterized in that activated derivatives of 1 phenyl cyclopentan carboxylic acid, having general formula II , are reacted with aminopyridines III , according to the sche mesEMI18.2 wherein X is an halogen atom, or an alcoxy group, or a residue transforming II in an homogeneous or mixed anhydride R and R , which can be the sa me or different, are hydrogen atoms, methyl groups or chlorine atoms. 2. Process according to claim 1, characterized in that the reaction is carried out in inert solvents such as ethylether, dioxane, chloroform, benzene or toluene. 3. Process according to claim 1, characterized in that, when X is halogen, an hydroalogen acid acceptor or an excess of aminopyridine III are used.

## Description
New compounds with anti inflammatory and anti tussive activity, process for their preparation and relative pharmaceutical compositionsThe present invention relates to a series of N pyridyl amides of 1 phenyl cyclopentancarbo xylic acid having formula I EMI1.1 wherein Py is the pyridine ring, eventually substituted with one or more methyl groups or chlorine atoms0Compounds I proved to be endowed with intere sting pharmacological properties, which make them suitable for the therapeutic use as antiinflammatory agents.The invention relates therefore also to pharmaceutical compositions with antiinflammatory activity containing as active principle one or more amides of formula I .Object of the invention is finally provided by a process for the preparation of N pyridylamides I , characterized in that activated deriva tives of 1 phenyl cyclopentancarboxylic acid, having general formula II , are reacted with aminopyridines III,according to the scheme EMI2.1 In such a scheme, X is an halogen atom, or an alcoxy group, or a residue transforming II in a homogeneous or mixed anhydride R and R , which can be the same or different, are hydrogen atoms, methyl groups or chlorine atoms.The reaction is preferably carried out with a nearly equimolar ratio between II and III it is possible to operate in the absence of sol vents, or preferably in solvents inert in the reaction conditions such as ethyl ether, dioxa ne, chloroform, benzene or toluene , at tempera tures ranging from OOC and the solvent s boiling point. Whereas X is halogen, it is convenient to use an excess of aminopyridine Iii as a hydrohalogen acid acceptor,The same purpose can be achieved by operating in presence of alkaline or alkaline earth metals carbonate or bicarbonate, or in presence of tertiary bases.The following examples illustrate the process ac cording to the invention. EXAMPLE 1 3 1 Phenyl cyclopentyl carbonyl aminopyridi ne 60 Mmoles of 3 aminopyridine, 50 ml of anhydrous benzene and 50 mmoles of anhydrous sodium carbonate, are placed in a three necked flask with a stirrer, reflux condenser and dropping funnell then, a solution of 50 mmoles of chloride of 1 phenyl cyclopentancarboxylic acid, pre pared by reaction of thionyl chloride on the cor responding acid J. Org. Chem. 4, 619 1959 in 50 ml of benzene, is added in small portions and under stirring. When the addition is comple te, the reaction mixture is left under stirring for one hour and is then refluxed for three hours.After hot filtration, benzene is removed under reduced pressure. The residue is re crystallized from ethanol m.p. 122 1230C ethanol . Analytical and spectroscopical data agree with the teoretical data. EXAMPLE 2 2 1 Phenyl cyclopentyl carbony aminopyridine The reaction is carried out according to the exam ple 1, but using 2 aminopyridine instead of 3,ami nopyridine, and substituting sodium carbonate with triethylamine. The product obtained whose structu re is confirmed by analytical and spectroscopical data melts at 86 870C methanol .Similar results are obtained using, instead of acid chloride, the corresponding mixed anhydride, obtained by 1 phenyl cyclopentancarboxylic acid and ethyl chlorocarbonate in the presence of a tertiary base.Starting from such an anhydride, or by 1 phenyl 1 chlorocarbonylcyclopentane, and from the suitable aminopyridine, the following compounds according to the invention are moreover obtained 2 1 phenyl cyclopentyl carbonyl amino 3 me thyl pyridine 2 LTl phenyl cyclopentyl carbonyl7 amino 4 me thylpyridine 2 1 phenyl cyclopentyl carbonyl amino 6 me thyl pyridine 2 1 phenyl cyclopentyl carbonyl amino 4,6 dimethyl pyridine 2 1 phenyl cyclopentyl carbonyl amino 5 chlo ro pyridine. The above compounds, whose characteristics are reported in the following table, show IR spectra having NH at 3300 3400 cm 1 and ÇCO at 16501700 cm and NMR spectra having multiplet band at 1.4 1.90 p.p.m. cycloalkyl hydrogens and a multiplet band at 6.60 8.20 p.p.m. benzene and pyridine hydrogens . TABLE 1 EMI5.1 EMI5.2 Py SEP M.p. SEP Yield SEP Molecular SEP formula SEP Elementary SEP analysis tb SEP calc. found tb SEP C SEP N SEP H tb N SEP 86 87 C SEP 80 SEP C17H18N2O SEP 76.66 SEP 6.81 SEP 10.52 tb SEP methanol SEP 76.64 SEP 6.79 SEP 10.48 tb N SEP 122 123 C SEP 75 SEP C17H18N2O SEP 76.66 SEP 6.81 SEP 10.52 tb SEP ethanol SEP 76.69 SEP 6.74 SEP 10.54 tb CH3 SEP 106 108 C SEP 80 SEP C18H20N2O SEP 77.11 SEP 7.19 SEP 9.99 tb SEP N SEP ethylacetate SEP 7.06 SEP 7.17 SEP 9.94 tb EMI6.1 EMI6.2 Py SEP M.p. SEP Yield SEP Molecular SEP formula SEP Elementary SEP analysis tb SEP calc. found tb SEP C SEP N SEP H tb SEP CH3 SEP 99 100 C SEP 83 SEP C18H20N2O SEP 77.11 SEP 7.19 SEP 9.99 tb N SEP ethanol SEP 77.10 SEP 7.17 SEP 10.11 tb N SEP 103 104 C SEP 78 SEP C18H20N2O SEP 77.11 SEP 7.19 SEP 9.99 tb SEP CH3 SEP ethanol SEP 77.18 SEP 7.10 SEP 9.95 tb SEP CH3 SEP 80 81 C SEP 85 SEP C19H22N2O SEP 77.52 SEP 7.53 SEP 9.52 tb N SEP methanol SEP 77.48 SEP 7.54 SEP 9.55 tb N Cl SEP 99 101 C SEP 70 SEP C17H17ClN2O SEP 67.88 SEP 5.65 SEP 9.32 tb SEP ethanol SEP 67.90 SEP 5.69 SEP 9.40 tb The compounds according to the invention are endo wed with limited toxicity together with antiinflam matory, analgesic and antitussive properties.As an example, pharmacological data for 2 1 phe nyl cyclopentyl carbonyl amino 3 methylpyridine which will be also defined, for the sake of brevity, with the abbreviation MR 549, are reported. Acute toxicityThe toxicity after single administrations ofMR 549 has been studied in mice and rats by the oral and intraperitoneal routes.The LD50 values have been calculated according to the method of Litchfield and Wilcoxon J. Pharm.Exp. Therap., 1949, 96, 99 .From the results obtained, outlined in Table 2, it turned out that MR 549 has a very low acute toxicity, in the used experimental conditions. TABLE 2 Acute toxicity of MR 549EMI7.1 tb PECIES SEP ROUTE SEP LD50 SEP mg kg tb mouse SEP Os SEP 550 tb SEP i.p. SEP 300 tb rat SEP os SEP 1100 tb SEP i.p. SEP 600 tb Pharmacological ActivityAntitussive activityThe antitussive activity of MR 549 has been studied in the rabbit according to the method of Boura and coll. Prog. Brit. Pharmac. Soc., apr. 1970 by inducing cough with an aerosol administration of citric acid.MR 549 and an experimented antitussive agent, codeine, as a reference compound, have been administered by intraperitoneal route at equiponderant doses immediately before treat ing animals with oitric acid aerosol. Ih the 10 minutes following the end of treatment, cough strokes of each animal have been counted, oomputing the average for eaoh group and the percent inhibition in comparison with a control group. TABLE 3 Antituasive activity of MR 549 EMI9.1 TREATMENT SEP DOSES SEP N SEP ANIMALS SEP SEP INHIBITION SEP OF SEP STATISTICAL tb SEP mg kg SEP COUGH SEP STROKES SEP SIGNIFICANCE tb SEP i.p. SEP IN SEP COMPARISON SEP basal SEP minus tb SEP WITH SEP BASAL SEP VA SEP final SEP values tb SEP LUES tb CONTROLS SEP SEP 12 SEP 13.7 SEP N.S. tb CODEINE SEP 50 SEP 12 SEP 79.5 SEP P SEP SEP 0,01 tb MR SEP 549 SEP 50 SEP 12 SEP 63.5 SEP P SEP SEP 0,01 tb From the obtained results reported in Table 3 it turns out that MR 549 has a marked antitussi ve activity, statistically significant in compa rison with control groups and with a very high percentage, comparable to a standard of proved ef ficacy such as codeine.Analgesic activityThe analgesic properties of MR 549 have been studied with the test of whrithing by phenylquinone in mice according to the method of Siegmund et al. Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol. Med. 1957, i2, .729 MR 549 has been administered by the oral route 30 minutes before of the phenylquinone injection at the dose of 50 mg kg per os acetylsalicylic acid, drug with proved analgesic activity has been used as preference drug at the dose of 100 m mg kg per os.From the results obtained and shown in theTable 4 a potent analgesic activity of MR 549 is noticed, comparable to that of acetylsalicylic acid, in the used experimental conditions0 TABLE 4 Analgesic activity of MR 549 Whriting by phenylquinone EMI11.1 TREATMENT SEP DOSES SEP WEIGHT SEP g SEP N SEP CONTORSIONS SEP SEP INHIBITION SEP N SEP WHRITING tb SEP mg kg SEP X SEP SEP e.s. SEP X SEP SEP e.s. SEP IN SEP COMPARISON SEP ANIMALS TO tb SEP WITH SEP CONTROLS SEP TAL SEP N BR CONTROLS SEP SEP 26.6 SEP 19.1 SEP SEP 3.24 SEP SEP 20 20 tb SEP 0.58 tb ACETYLSALICYLIC SEP 100 SEP 25.8 SEP 3.9 SEP SEP 1.93 SEP 79.6 SEP 12 20 tb ACID SEP 0.59 tb MR SEP 549 SEP 50 SEP 25.3 SEP 6.9 SEP SEP 2.24 SEP 63.9 SEP 14 20 tb SEP 0.79 tb Antiinflammatory activityThe antiinflammatory activity of MR 549 has been assessed by the carrageenin edema test in the rat according to the method of Winter et al. Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol. Med., 1962, III, 544 .The product under exam and indomethacin at equiponderant doses have been administered by the oral route 30 minutes before of the subplantar carragee ning injection pletismographic measures of the edemas have been performed 3 hours after they had been induced. The results obtained are reported in Table 5.From the analysis of the obtained data it is poe sible to notice that MR 549 is endowed with a good anti inflammatory activity, slightly lower than that of indomethacin in the used experimental con ditions.TABLE 5 Antiinflammatory activity Edema by carrageeninEMI12.1 tb DRUG SEP DOSES SEP N SEP ANI SEP EDEMA SEP VOLUME SEP SEP IN tb SEP mg kg SEP MALS SEP Basal SEP Final SEP HIBI tb SEP value SEP value SEP TION tb CON SEP SEP 10 SEP 23.4 SEP 38.6 SEP tb TROLS tb INDO tb METHA SEP 50 SEP 10 SEP 22.5 SEP 29.6 SEP 53.2 tb CINE tb SEP NR SEP 549 SEP 50 SEP 10 SEP 22.6 SEP 31.8 SEP 38.1 tb Gastric tolerability The effect on gastric mucosa of MR 549 and of phenylbutazone as a reference drug has been asset sed with the method described by Pisanti and Volterra II Farmaco Ed. pr. Vol. 25 2 , 105 .Male rats of S D strain, weighing 180 200 g and fasting for 48 hours with free access to water, have been used. The product under exam have been administered by intraperitoneal route twice after 24 and 31 hours from the beginning of the fasting period at the single dose of 100 mg kg or three times by oral route 9.24 and 31 hours after the beginning of the fasting period at the single dose of 150 mg kg. The solvent alone 1 carboxymethylcellulose has been administered to a control group of animals. The results obtained, repor ted in the Table 6, show that MR 549 is endowed, both by parenteral and oral route, with a gastrolesive action clearly lower than phenylbutazone, according to the used method. TABLE 6EMI14.1 tb TREAT SEP DOSE SEP N SEP ANI SEP N SEP ANI SEP SEP ANI tb MENT SEP mg kg SEP MALS SEP MALS SEP MALS tb SEP WITHE SEP UL SEP WITH SEP UL tb SEP CERS SEP CERS tb SEP CONTROLS tb SEP 1 SEP car tb boxymethyl SEP SEP 12 SEP 0 SEP tb SEP cellulose tb SEP Phenylbu SEP 100 SEP mg SEP X SEP 2 SEP 12 SEP 10 SEP 83.30 tb SEP tazone SEP i.p. tb SEP Phenylbu SEP tb SEP tazone SEP 150 SEP mg SEP X SEP 3 SEP 12 SEP 11 SEP 91.67 tb SEP Os SEP tb MR SEP 549 SEP 100 SEP mg SEP X SEP 2 SEP 12 SEP 3 SEP 25.00 SEP tb SEP i.p. tb MR SEP 549 SEP 150 SEP mg SEP X SEP 3 SEP 12 SEP 5 SEP 41.67 tb SEP os tb an animal died during treatment two animals died during treatment.rotor activityThe effect of MR 549 on the motor activity has been studied in the Swiss mouse, by placing two groups of animals in a box connected with a recorder detec ting spontaneous motility. On the basis of movements minute recorded, MR 549 at the dose of 50 mg kg i.p. has been administered to one group and the ac tivity has been recorded during the 2 hours following treatment the second group, treated with the solvent alone, has been used as control group.The results obtained are reported in Table 7. From analysis of these data it turns out that MR 549 does nt change the motor activity in the two hours following treatment. TABLE N. 7EMI15.1 tb EATMENT SEP DOSE SEP N SEP recorded SEP movements min. tb SEP Time SEP 0 SEP 15 SEP 30 SEP 60 SEP 90 tb CONTROLS SEP SEP 53 SEP 48 SEP 53 SEP 40 SEP 44 tb 549 SEP 50 SEP mg SEP 45 SEP 42 SEP 52 SEP 39 SEP 52 tb SEP kg SEP i.p tb The compounds I according to the present invention are therefore agents useful for the trea tment of cough and of inflammatory conditions, in the form of pharmaceutical compositions such as capsules, pills or tablets containing 100 500 mg of compounds I syrup in such a concentration to deliver 300 1500 mg of compounds I a day, when administe red b.i.d., t.i0d. or more times suppositories containing 200 1000 mg of compo unds I .