# Method of bonding polymer impregnated textile.

## Abstract
A method of bonding polymer impregnated textile, particularly belting, by assembling the portions to be bonded with an interlayer of a heat activatable, polyurethane forming reaction mixture which is fluid at 20 C and comprises a prepolymer reaction product of a polyester polyol with a polyisocyanate and a curative for the prepolymer. The reaction mixture is then heat activated to form a polyurethane, thereby bonding the portions of polymer impregnated textile. The polyurethane adhesive is fluid at 20 C, has a reasonable pot life i.e. is substantially stable or only slowly reactive at 20 C but is heat activatable to give a quick cure when required.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method of bonding polymer impregnated textile comprises assembling the portions of polymerimpregnated textile to be bonded with an interlayer of a polyurethane composition characterised in that the polyurethane composition is a heat activatable, polyurethane forming reaction mixture fluid at 0 20 C and comprising a a prepolymer reaction product of a polyester polyol with a polyisocyanate, and b a curative for said prepolymer, and then heat activating said reaction mixture to form a polyurethane, thereby bonding the portions of polymer impregnated textile. 2. A method according to claim 1 characterised in that the polyester polyol comprises a polycaprolactone polyol. 3. A method according to claim 1 or 2 characterised in that the prepolymer includes a material to achieve fluidity. 4. A method according to claim 1 characterised in that the polyester polyol is fluid at 200C. 5. A method according to any preceding claim characterised in that the prepolymer includes a polyester polyol and a polypropylene glycol. 6. A method according to any preceding claim characterised in that the prepolymer includes a plasticiser. 7. A method according to any preceding claim characterised in that the polyester polyol comprises an adipate based polymer. 8. A method according to any preceding claim characterised in that the curative is heat activatable. 9. A method according to any preceding claim characterised in that the polyisocyanate is selected from diphenylmethane 4,4 diisocyanate and tolylene diisocyanate. 10. A method according to any preceding claim characterised in that the textile is impregnated with polyvinyl chloride. 11. A method according to any preceding claim characterised in that the stoichiometric ratio of curative to NCO is from 0.75 1 to 1.3 1 and the molar ratio of polyester to polyisocyanate is from 1 1.5 to 1 5.

## Description
METEKOD OF BONDING POLYMER IMPREtJNATED TEXTILE This invention relates to a method of bonding polymer impregnated textile by assembling the portions of polymer impregnated textile to be bonded with an interlayer of a polyurethane composition. The invention is particularly directed to jointing belting in which case the portions of textile to be bonded will be of two belt ends, usually of complemen tary configuration. A method of jointing belting is known U.K. Patent Specification No. 901,197 in which a astable polyurethane compound is poured into the gap between two belt ends and is subsequently cured by the action of heat. With the polyurethane compositions described for use in this method it is necessary to apply heat in order to render them liquid for application to the belt ends. Where belt ends are to be bonded on site , e.g. down a mine it is a disadvantage if substantial heat is required to render the adhesive liquid. The invention as claimed is intended to remedy the drawbacks of the prior art by providing a polyurethane adhesive composition which is fluid 0 at 20 C., has a reasonable pot life i.e. is substantially stable or only slowly reactive at room 0 temperature 20 C but is heat activatable to give a quick cure when reqired. Thus, the adhesive can be premixed and transported to where it is needed, e.g do a a mine, applied be tween the portions to be bonded, e.g. two belt ends, and then activated so as to bond the portions together quickly and simply. According to the present invention a method of bonding polymer impregnated textile by asserrbling the portions of polymer impregnated textile to be boded with an interlayer of a polyurethane composition characterised in that the polyurethane composition is a heat activatable, polyurethaneforming reaction mixture fluid at 200C and comprising a a prepolymer reaction product of a polyester polyol with a polyisocyanate, and b a curative for said prepolymer, and then heat activating said reaction mixture to form a polyurethane thereby bonding the portions of polymer impregnated textile. 0 The room temperature 20 C stability of the pollrurethalle forming reaction mixture may be achieved in one of several ways including 1 using known techniques to block isocyanate groups e.g. with phenol or one of its derivatives such as paraphenyl phenol, caprolacta the oximes of various aromatic and or aliphatic ketones such as methyl ethyl ketoxime arid the dialkyl malonates such as diethyl malonat , in the poly isocyanate so that they will be substantially inactive until unblocked by an increase in temperature, or 2 by using a heat activatable so called thermolabile curative.A suitable class of thermolabile curative is one where a di amine is rendered unreac tive by being bound ionically into the crystalline matrix of an inorganic salt e.g. a complex of methylene bis aniline with sodium c nloride which is available as a dispersion in diethyl phthalate knows as Caytur 21 from Du Pont Limited. Textile has its usual meaning in the art i.e. a woven or non woven construction of natural or man made fibres, filaments or yarns obtained by interlacing e.g by weaving, knitting, felting, bonding or tufting. Belting is the name given to an elongate article for the transmission of power or for the purpose of conveying or elevating, hence generally known as transmission belting or conveyor belting It may be advantageous, particularly when bonding belt ends, to shape the textile portions to be bonded complementarily. The step of complementarily shaping the two ends of the textile may b carried into effect by providing interengaging formations on the ends, such formations providing a contact area for the jointing compouild on each end of the belting at least twice as great and preferably several times greater than the minimum cross sectional area of the belting at the ends to be joined. Preferabl s the formations comprise a complementary array of V shaped notches that extends across the full width of each of the two ends of the belting, the notches being arranged so that when the two ends are brought together they are disposed in interengaging relation, and the present invention will be described hereinafter with particular reference to such V shaped notches. The length of each notch in the longitudinal direction of the textile should be considerably greater than the width to achieve optimum results.The length and width of the notches may be varied, but the ratio of notch length to notch width should conveniently be within the range 2 1 to 30 1 inclusive, and preferably 2 1 to 20 1. It will be understood that the term V shaped notches as used herein is intended to include modifications to the notches as by rounding or squaring the peaks, provided that the joint faces or edges between the notches are of substantial length in relation to their width and extend in the general direction of the length of the textile. Improved jointing may be obtained by slight roughening of theV shaped notches with a suitable instrument, before the complementary notched ends are fitted together. When forming certain products such as belting, the trourEiability may require consideration.Troughability is the property whereby a belt when loosely supported in a horizontal plane will assume a trough like configuration because of its innate weight and flexibility. For the purpose of comparison, troughability may be expressed as the number obtained by dividing the maximum depth of the trough by the maximum width of the belt in that region. Preferably, the troughability of the jointed area is substantially that of the belt itself. Preferably the portions to he bonded are in a substantially dry state, e.g. having a water content less than 5 by weight, more preferably less than 3 by weight, so that moisture cannot interfere with the bonding process. Examples of suitable polyisocyanates include diphenylmethane 4,4 diisocyanate MDI either in its pure form or modified to a liquid e.g. that available as Desmodur PF from Bayer U.K. Limited and tolylene diisocyanate TDI in the form f its mixed isomers usually 80 S of the 2,4 and 20 of the 2,6 . Non flammability characteristics may be conferred on the polyurethane forming reaction mixture by incorporating a flame retardant material e.g. a dispersion of antimony trioxide in a chlorinated paraffin plasticiser such as is available as CP 56 from Hoechst U.K. Limited. The polyurethane forming reaction mixture is fluid at 200 for ease of handling and application, e,g, has a viscosity of not more than 50,000 centipoise. Where the polyester used is such that the resulting 0 prepolymer is solid at 20 C. e.g. in the case of a polycaprolactone polyol, which is preferably a polycaprolactone diol , fluidity may be achieved by incorporating an additional polymer in the prepolymer e.g. a polypropylene glycol PPG . The minimum amount of additional polymer necessary to confer fluidity on the resulting prepolymer may depend upon the required percentage isocyanate content of the final product.For example, for a prepolymer based upon a 2000 molecular weight polycaprolactone diol e.g. as is available under the trade name Capa 223 from Interox Chemicals Limited and a molar excess of a liquid, modified MDI, we have found that a minimum of 0.2 equivalents of a 2000 molecular weight polypropylene glycol diol per equivalent of the polycaprolactone diol is necessary to confer room temperature 200C fluidity on a fully reacted prepolymer designed to have an isocyanate content of from 7 to 7.5 , whereas a minimum of 0.6 equivalent of the same polypropylene glycol diol per equivalent of the polycaprolactone diol is rewired to confer room temperature fluidity on a prepolymer designed to have an isocyanate content of 5 . The preferred molar ratio of polyester to polyisocyanate is from 1 1.5 to 1 5, advantageously about 1 2.2. Another way of conferring fluidity is to blend into a prepolymer an inert, comparatively involatile liquid e.g. a paraffinic or phthalatebased organic material commonly used as plasticiser in polyvinyl chloride chemistry. For example, we have found that a minimum of 25 parts by weight of a chlorinated paraffinic plasticiser available asCP 56 from Hoechst U.K. Limited per 100 parts by weight of polycaprolactone diol Capa 223 is required to conifer fluidity on the resulting prepolymer where sufficient polyisocyanate e.g.Desmodur PF is used to yield a fully reacted prepolymer having an isocyanate content of 6.5 . The preferred ratio of curative to prepolymer is such that the stoichiometric ratio of curative to NCO is from 0.75 1 to 1.3 1, advantageously about 1 1. Some adipate based polymers are fluid at room temperature 200C and thus yield prepolymers which are fluid at room temperature without the need for a fluidising ingredient. Available adipate based polymers are usually copolymers of adipic acid with a low molecular weight diol such as ethane diol or butane diol, i.e. they are formed by the condensation polymerisation of diesters of adipic acid. The invention is illustrated by the following Examples. EXAMPLE I A polyurethane prepolymer was made by thoroughly mixing the following ingredients together under nitrogen Polycaprolactone diol 2000 molecular weight, available as Capa 223 from Interox 100 gPolypropylene glycol diol 2000 molecular weight, available as Propylan D 2002 from Lankro Chemicals, now trading as Diamond ShamrockChemicals Limited 100 gDiphenyl methane 4,4 diisocyanate modified to liquid form equivalent weight of 184.5 available as Desmodur PF from Bayer 221.4 g The mixture was left to stand for 16 hours at room temperature after which the components had completely reacted to a homogeneous fluid prepolymer having an isocyanate content of 7.25 by weight. 34 g of a thermolanile complex of methylene bis aniline with sodium chloride available as Caytur 21 fromDu Pont were added as curative and thoroughly mixed into 100 g of the prepolymer. The resulting composition was applied to the joint faces 1,2 of a test piece 3 shown in the Figure and the joint was then assembled by interlocking the complementary formations. The total length of the joint interface was 2 x 1.5 2 x 15 2 cm 35 cm The assembly o was heated to 120 C under a pressure of 25 psi 17 bar for 1 hour.After a further 3 days at room temperature the sample was tested in a tensile tester and the breaking face was found to be 0.9 tons, equivalent to 30N mm of joint face overall breaking force dived by length in mm in the joint face . By comparison, the same joint adhered with a polyvinyl chloride composition in place of the polyurethane had a breaking force of o.64 tons, equivalent to 23 N mm of joint face. EXAMPLE II A polyurethane prepolymer was made by thoroughly mixing the following ingredients under nitrogen Polycaprolactone diol 2000 molecular weight, available as Capa 225 from Interox 200 gPropylan D 2002 50 gDesmodur PF 153 g The mixture was left to stand for 16 hours at room temperature, after which the components had reacted to a homogeneous fluid prepolymer having an isocyanate content of 6. 07 by weight.To 100 g of this prepolymer were added the following ingredients Caytur 1 as thermolabile curative 28.5 g 1 2 by weight dispersion of antimony trioxide in a chlorinated paraffin plasticiser containing 56 parts by weight of chlorine available asChloroparaffin 56 from Hoechst 30 gAntistatic agent available as Catafor CA 100 from A3M Chemicals 2g The mixture was used as a jointing adhesive as described in Example I The breaking force was 0.84 tons equivalent to 28 N mm of joint face and the join t was found to pass the National Coal Board testNo. 158 of flammability and self extinguishing properties. EXAMPLE III A polyurethane prepolymer was made by thoroughly mixing the following ingredients at 600C under nitrogen Adipate based diol 2000 molecular weight, available as Diorez 520 from Briggs and Townsend 200 g Diphenylmethane 4,4 diisocyanate available as Desmodur 44 from Bayer 75 g The mixture was allowed to cool to room temperature and after 16 hours a fluid prepolymer having an isocyanate content of 6.11 was obtained.23 g of Caytur 21 were added to 100 g of the pre polymer and the resulting mixture was applied to the joint surface of the test piece. The joint was assembled as shown in the Figure and cured by heating to 1200C at a pressure of 25 psi 17 bar for 1 our. After a further 3 days at room temperature, the sample was tested in a tensile tester and the breaking force was found to be 0.87 tons, equivalent to 29 N mm of joint face. EXAMPLE IV A plasticised polyurethane prepolymer was made by reacting the following ingredients together at 700C for 4 hours.Adipate based diol 2000 molecular weight, available as Diorez 520 fromBriggs and Townsend 1000 gDiphenylmethane 4,4 diisocyanate available as Desmodur 44 from Bayer 312.5 gChlorinated paraffin plasticiser 525 g A mixture of Caytur 21 329 g and antimony dioxide 175 g was then stirred into the prepolymer and the resulting composition was then applied to the joint faces of the test piece. The joint was 0 assembled and cured by hea ting to 120 C at a pressure of 25 psi 17 bar for 1 hour. The breaking force was found to be 0.8 ton, equivalent to 26.6 N mm of joint face. EXAMPLE V A polyurethane prepolymer was made by mixingDiorez with TDI under nitrogen at room temperature 0 and then heating in an oven at 75 C for 4 hours. Adipate based diol 2000 molecular weight, available as Diorez 520 fromBriggs and Townsend 150 gTolylene diisocyanate TDI an 80 2,4, 20 2,6 mixture of isomers 19 g After degassing, the resulting prepolymer was found to have a 3. 81 isocyanate content. 20.7 g Caytur 21, in which had been dispersed 5.3 g dryf finely powdered antimony oxide and 16.1 g decabromophenylene oxide, were then added to the prepolymer. The mixture was then used as in previousExamples to make a spliced joint. The breaking force was found to be 0.87 ton, equivalent to 29 N mm of joint face.