# Improvements in or relating to seats.

## Abstract
A portable seat comprises a seat member 10 carried by a supporting plate 13 which may be attached to a vertical support by means such as a strap or belt 19 , the supporting plate being provided with means, such as a wedge shaped lip 20 , for making positive engagement with the vertical support when pressure is applied to the seat member.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A seat characterised by a seat member carried by a supporting plate adapted to engage the surface of a vertical support and means for attaching said supporting plate to said vertical support, said supporting plate being provided with means for making positive engagement with said vertical support when pressed into contact therewith. 2. A seat according to claim 1, wherein said positive engagement means consists of a wedge shaped lip at the lower end of the supporting plate. 3. A seat according to claim 1, wherein said positive engagement means consist of nibbs or teeth at the lower end of the supporting plate. 4. A seat according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the seat member is pivotally attached to the supporting plate so that it may be folded against said plate when not in use. 5. A seat according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the means for attaching the supporting plate to the vertical support consists of a strap or belt which is engaged with the supporting plate. 6. A seat according to claim 5, wherein the supporting plate is formed with a pair of slots through which the strap or belt is passed. 7. A seat according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the configuration of the supporting plate is such that it is able to engage vertical supports of different diameters. 8. A seat according to claim 7, wherein the supporting plate comprises a part circular portion for engaging a vertical support of circular cross section and outwardly curved portions at the edges of said part circular portion for engaging vertical supports of larger diameter. 9. A seat as claimed in claim 1 wherein a boss is formed in the underside of the seat member.

## Description
IMPROVEMENTS IN OR RELATING TO SEATS This invention relates to seats and more particularly to portable seats for use by sportsmenO The invention has among its objects to provide a form of seat that is small enough to fit into a rucksack or the pocket of a sports jacket or be carried attached around the waist, thereby leaving the sportsman s arms free, and that can be easily and quickly attached to a vertical support such as a fence post, tree or telegraph pole. According to the invention, there is provided a seat characterised by a seat member carried by a supporting plate adapted to engage the surface of a vertical support and means for attached said supporting plate to said vertical support, said supporting plate being provided with means for making positive engagement with said vertical support when pressed into contact therewith. By positive engagement as used herein, is meant that the supporting plate is more than simply pressed against the vertical support. Rather is it provided with means that dig into said support. Thus, according to a preferred embodiment, the supporting plate is provided with a wedgeshaped lip at its lower end which will be forced into the vertical support when pressure is applied to the seat.According to another embodiment, the supporting plate is provided with protruding ribs or teeth to achieve the same results. According to a further feature of the invention, the seat member may be pivotally attached to the supporting plate so that it may be folded against said plate when not in use. The means for attaching the supporting plate to the vertical support may conveniently consist of a strap or belt which is engaged with the supporting plate which may be formed with slots through which the strap or belt is passed. According to yet another feature of the invention, the configuration of the supporting plate is such that it is able to engage vertical supports of different diameters.Thus, according to one embodiment, the supporting plate comprises a part circular portion for engaging a vertical support of circular cros s sëction and outwardly curved portions at the edges of said part circular portion for engaging vertical supports of larger diameter. The invention will now be described by way of example with reference to the accompanying drawings, wherein Figure 1 is aplan view of the seat, Figure 2 is a corresponding side elevation, and Figure 3 is a corresponding front elevation. As shown, the seat comprises a seat number 10 carried by a frame 11 which is provided with hinge members 12o The seat is pivotally supported on a supporting plate 13 by the engagement of said hinge members 12 with a hinge member 14 on the supporting plate 13, the respective hinge members being mounted on a hinge pin 15. The supporting plate 13 has a part circular portion 16 and with outwardly curved portions 17 at the edges of the circular portion 16. The plate 13 is formed with a pair of slots 18 at its upper end through which is passed a belt or strap 19 for attaching the seat to a vertical support. At its lower end, the plate 13 is formed with a wedge shaped projection 20. When not in use, the seat member 10 is folded into position against the supporting plate 13 so that the seat may be carried in a rucksack or a large pocket or attached around the waist by means of the belt 19. To use the seat, the seat member 10 is pstrnted into a position at right angles to the supporting plate 13 which is attached to a vertical support by means of the belt 19. Pressure on the seat member 10 forces the wedge shaped projection 20 into biting engagement with the vertical support whereby the seat is firmly and positively located in position. The provision of the curved portions 16 and 17 on the supporting plate 13 enables the seat to be attached to the vertical supports of different diameters. The seat frame and the supporting plate may be made from an alloy investment casting, from steel or both. If made from steel, the seat member will be of wood or plastic while if made from an alloy investment casting, the seat member will be cast integrally. The seat member 10 or frame 11 may be formed with a boss not shown at the underside to enable a telescopic leg to be fitted therein. Hence the seat would in such instance be self sufficient with such telescopic leg.