# Soap bubble rush producing device for scenographies.

## Abstract
A soap bubble rush producing device to create scenographies in which a central quadrilateral envelope 2 is surrounded by a square tank 1 filled with a soap solution. A pair of orthogonal shafts 13, 15 with bubble dipping elements 18 on each end are rotated in the square tank to form soap solution films in the rings 19 . Air which has been drawn in by a fan 4 through an opening 5 at the top of the envelope passes through holes 20 in the envelope at a height corresponding to the top of the path of the dipper. The fan and shafts are driven by an electric motor 10 , and the whole device can be rotated on a pivot 23 .

## Claims
Claims I Soap bubble rush producing device for scenograptnies, characte rized by the fact that , it permits the bubble discharge at the 6ame tine from the four sized of the Contrivanco tho aintng a scenographic effect affecting the entire room around the emitting device. A rigid, longitudinal, parallelepiped conglobed stru cture is foreseen having a lower square crowned tank which is centrally delimiting a quadrilateral envelope bearing a fan in a coaxial position suitable for operating in the relevant cavity. In the quadrilateral envelope, a horizontal, orthogonal pair of shafts not complanated but on the outcoming pins, bears a forming tool partially submerged in the soapy base liquid contained in the tank at each side of the envelope. The tool consists of a central small disk supporting a set of forming annulars in radial position on column shaped supports. By means of a switch, the fans in started in synchronism generating an air jet downwards into the envelope and a motorreducer fitted at the base of the device simultaneously lets the four bubble forming tools rotata transitting to a pair of pul leys engaged at 900 to the said shafts. The air jet trimmeÅa downwards generates a rush effect on the envelpe bottom which lets the air to get out with a volving effect from a system of four openings, each on one of the walls and in correspondence to the upper travel lenght of the forming annulars. These ones while plunging into the soap liquid, detain It and subsequently rising pass on the air jet. The dynamic effect leads to dilate the membrane with formation and severance of bubbles in continuous cycle getting out rushwise from the four sides. 2 Soap bubble rush producing device for scenographies , according to the previous claim, characterized by the fact that supporting the devi ce on motor assembly, its rotation can be started increasing in this way the dynamism of the rush effect with volving motion. 3 Soap bubble rush producing device for scenographies , according to the previous claims, characterized by the fact that foresees a device con globed with a lower quadrilateral tank I can be seen, with central four side column envelope 2 and upper settling part 3 for the coaxial fan and top grate 5. Square base 6 has beeb foreseen to fit on the plane and the device can be lifted by means of handle 7 to be disactivated through blocking means 8. The device can also be fitted on a wall or in a suspended position by means of switch 9, the fan 4 and the motor IO are started driving the pulley II engaged at 900 with pulley I2. Pulley II starts its shafts I3 fitted on bushes I4 , whereas pulley I2 stars its shaft I5 thus the four forming tools can be simultaneously started on the sides. 4 Soap bubble rush producing device for scenographies, according to the previous claims, characterized by the fact that the forming tool consists of small disk I6 with central bore I7 for fitting it to shaft projecting pin supporting a set of supports I8 of annulars I9 with relief collar retaining the soapy liquid. The rising air gets out rushwise from the four openings 20 acting thus as a jet on the soapy membranes which are formed on the annular I9 while passing on the said openings. 5 Soap bubble rush producing device for scenographies, according to the previous claims, characterized by the fact that, the dynamism can be raised by supporting the device on motor assembly 21 contained in box 22 in central position transmitting on flanged base 23.

## Description
Soap bubble rush producing device for scenographies .The invention refers to a device for scenographies enabling to produ ce soap bubbles coming out with a rush effect or. four orthogonal Devices are known that employ forming annuar equipped with radial reliefs apt to detain the soapy liquid to permit the initial membrane ferming and, through air jet with orthogonal trimming in respect to it, subseguent formation and projecting severance of bubbles. These contri vances permit the unidirectionil emission of the bubbles. vne invented device permits the bubble discharge at The same time from the four sides of the contrivance thus obtaining a scenographic effect affecting the entire room around the emitting device. A rigid, longirudinal, parallelepiped conglobed structure is foreseen having a lower square crowned tank which is centrally delimiting a quadrilateral envelope bearing a fan in a coaxial position suitable for operating in the relevant cavity. In the quadrilateral envelope, a horizontal, orthogonal pair of shafts, not complanated but on the outcoming pins, bears a forming tool partially submerged in the soapy base liquid con tained in the tank at each side of the envelope.Ine tool consists of a central small disk supporting a set of forming annulars in radial position on column shaped supports. By means of a switch, the fans is started in synchronism generating an air jet downwards into the envelope and a motor reducer fitted at the base of the device simultaneously lets the four bubble forming tools rotate transmitting to a pair of pulleys engaged at 900 to the said shafts.The air jet trimmed downwards generates a rush effect on the envelope bottom which lets the air to get out with a volving effect from a system of four openings, each on one of the walls and in correspondence to the upper travel length of the forming annulars. These ones while plunging into the soapy liquid, detain it and subsequently rising pass on the air jet.The dynamic effect leads to dilate the membrane with formation and se verance of bubbles in continuous cycle getting out rushwise from four sides. Supporting the device on motor assembly, its rotation can be started increasing in this way the dynamism of the rush effect with volving motion.Forms of execution are illustrated in an indicative way only by the drawings of Table 1, where Fig. 1 is the perspective view of a device without the rotating contrivance. Fig. 2 is the side view of a device supported on a turning mechanism. Fig. 3 is the longitudinal section of the device as per the previous figure and showing the upper coaxial fan letting in the air represented by direction arrows downwards, and showing the device supported on the motor assembly. On the device base, the other motor reducer can be seen which drives the pair of pulleys engaged at 900 for the contemporary movement of the four forming tools, two of which can be noted in partial immersion in the tank containing the liquid. Fig. 4 is the front view of a forming tool.In a not limiting version, a device conglobed with a lower quadrilateral tank 1 can be seen, with central four side column envelope 2 and upper settling part 3 for the coaxial fan and top grate 5. Square base 6 has been foreseen to fit on the plane and the device can be lifted by means of handle 7 to be disactivatedthrougn blocking means 8. The device can also be fitted on a wall or in a suspended position by means of switch 9, the fan 4 and the motor 10 are started driving the pulley 11 engaged at 900 with pulley 12. Pulley 11 starts its shaft 13 fitted on bushes 14, whereas pulley 12 starts its shaft 15 thus the four forn ing tools can be simultaneously started on the sides. The forming tool consists of small disk 16 with central bore 17 for fitting it to shaft projecting pin supporting a set of supports 18 of annulars 19 with relief collar retaining the soapy liquid. The rising air gets out rushwise from the four openings 20 acting thus as a jet on the soapy mem branes which are formed on the annulars 19 while passing on the said openings. The dynamism can be raised by supporting the device on motor assembly 21 contained in box 22 in central position transmitting on flanged base 23.