# Rotating supporting assembly for differentiated colour spotlights and domes having independent movements for scenographies.

## Abstract
The invention foresees an envelope, on a rotating shaft, with an upper hemispheric cap 6 having a lower counterposed larger one 9 characterized by a further lower central cap 10 bearing a smaller diameter sphere 12 at its end. The top hemisphere 6 and the underlying sphere 12 are foreseen with a set of stationary spotlights 22, 23 fitted on it. The remaining intermediate part employs single driving organs these ones fitted on the relevant shafts passing in outer reticle sockets on the envelope structure support singularly rotating caps equipped with analogous spotlights and fitted on two orders.

## Claims
CLAIMS Rotating supporting assembly for differentiated colour sport lights and domes having independent movements for scenographies, characterized by the fact that it is particularly employed in night clubs permits full field dynamic scenographies determined by ray pencils that are interfering with one another in a different way generating deformed effects of projection on the walls and bodies in general. Sportlights are at present used that can be set in both stationa ry and rotating positions. These devices permit limited effects and, in any case, they do not allow a differentiated dynamism of the light rays pencils. 2 Rotating supporting assembly for differentiated colour sport .lights and domes having independent movements for scenographies according to the previous claim, characterized by the fact that the device foresees an envelope in light sheet or other particu larly light material supported on a motor driven shaft contained in a differently flanged base to be supported on a plane, wall or ceiling. The envelope is structured on an inside frame and is characteri zed in a longitudinal way by a top hemispheric eap having in a lower counterposition another larger hemisphere with a bottom protuberance consisting of another smaller one holding a sphere at its end with a still smaller diameter. The upper hemisphere and the underlying end sphere are foreseen withe fitted set of stationary spotlights. The remaining interme a e part, inside and centrally, employs single driving organs on three knuckle arms brackets to the envelope these driving organs are suppor ting singularly rotating caps equipped with analogous spotlights on two orders. 3 Rotating supporting assembly for differentiated colour sportlights and domes having independent movements for scenographies, according to the previous claim , characterized by the fact that, on fixing flanges I, box 2 is foreseen bearing motor assembly 3, the shaft of which 4 passes into socket 5 of the upper hemisphere 6 of the envelope and in bore 7 of the frame structure 8, with three arms, supporting the intermediate part with top spherical sector 9 and lower protuberance IO holding sphere I2 on supportII. The intermediate envelope is foreseen with two opening sets 13 with frame brackets I4 supporting motors I6 on bases IS the motor shafts I7 pass in sockets I8 on frame 19 and are supporting caps 20 bearing spotlights 21. The envelope part 6 and sphere I2 are foreseen with spotlights assemblies 22 and 23 fitted on

## Description
Rotating supporting assembly for differentiated colour spotlights and domes having independent movements for scenographies. The invention refers to a device permitting luminous scenographies made by light ray pencils in movement with differentiated colouring and positioning generated by contrivances fitted on a central rotating assemby and on parts that are rotating on it with independent motions. The device to be particularly employed in night clubs permits full field dynamic scenographies determined by ray pencils that are interfering with one another in a different way generating deformed effects of projection on the wall and bodies in general.Spotlights are at the present used that can be set in both stationary and rotating positions. These devices permit limited effects and, in any case, they do not allow a differentiated dynamism of the light ray pencils. The device foresees an envelope in light sheet or other particularly light material supported on a motor driven shaft containde in a differently flanged base to be supported on a plane, wall or ceiling.The envelope is strmcturated on a inside frame and is characterized inva longitudinal way by a top hemispheric cap having in a lower counterposition another larger hemisphere with a bottom protuberance consisting of another smaller one holding a sphere rut its end with a still smaller diameter. The upper hemisphere and the underlying end sphere are foreseen with a fitted set of stationary spotlights. The remaining intermediate part, inside and centrally, employs single driving organs on three knuckle arms brackets to the envelope these driving organs are supporting singularly rotating caps equipped with asElogous spotlights on two orders, on the relevant shafts stabilized to rotation only on socket borne by frame reticles.An execution version is illustrated by the drawings of Table 1, xhereFig. 1 is the perspective front view of the device supported on the rotating assembly fitted on the ceiling. Fig. 2 is the longitudinal section of the device showing the turned assembly fitted in the box part supporting the envelope on the shaft centrally to the frame, permitting the rotating support on the longitudinal axle. On the top the hemisphere can be noted bearing the spotlights which are stationary like the sphere supported on the bottom. On the intermediate part, the two sets of the caps can be noted which are separately supported on the driving organs borne by bracket radials.Fig. 3 is the view front above of the frame structure of the Inter mediate part showing the three stabilization arms . the central bore for fitting the motor shaft. On fixing flanges 1, box 2 is foreseen bearing motor assembly 3, the shaft of which 4 passes into socket 5 of the upper hemisphere 6 of the envelope and in bore 7 of the frame structure 8, with three arms, supporting intermediate part with top spherical sector 9 and lower protuberance 10 holding sphere 12 on support 11. The intermediate envelope is foreseen with two opening sets 13 with frame bracket 14 supporting motors 16 on bases 15 the motor shafts 17 pass in socket 18 on frame 19 and are supporting caps 20 bearing spotlights 21. The envelope part 6 and sphere 12 are foresee, with spotlights assemblies 22 and 23 fitted on.In practice, the execution particulars, such as the spotlights settling and that of the motor assemblies, their number, as well as the employ material may be different.