# Dishwasher.

## Abstract
A dishwasher has a primary spray system defining a recirculating path for filtering wash and rinse fluids from a sump 62 through a main screen 74 and pumping the filtered fluids through spray arms 57 which spray the fluid onto food ware in the wash chamber of the dishwasher. Fluid is also circulated from the wash chamber through a soil collecting circuit 78 which conducts fluid to a soil collector 88 which is separate from the wash chamber and recirculating path. The soil collector includes a fine filter screen 88 which filters food soil from fluid passing therethrough and holds it within the collector for discharge into the dishwasher drain system 66,68,70,130 when the fluids are drained from the dishwasher.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A dishwasher 50 having a wash chamber 55 including a sump 62 at the bottom for containing fluid therein primary spray means including a recirculating pump 56 for recirculating and spraying fluid onto food ware in said wash chamber, a recirculating pump inlet 72 communicating with said sump and including a main screen 74 separating said recirculating pump inlet from said wash chamber a drain system having a drain pump 66 , a drain pump inlet 70 communicating with said sump, a drain outlet channel 130 communicating with a drain line 68 a soil collecting circuit 78 having a circuit inlet 80 connected to receive fluid from said sump, a fluid return outlet 88 located within said wash chamber, a portion 82,84 , independent of said primary spray means and said wash chamber, in fluid communication with said circuit inlet and said return outlet, a relatively fine screen soil collecting filter 86 in said portion for removing food soil from fluid flowing through said circuit, and flow direction control means 138 for establishing bi directional fluid flow between said sump and said portion and means 59,61 for selectively controlling said dishwasher to operate said primary spray means and said drain system in a recirculating mode or in a draining mode, characterized by means 102 enclosing said fluid outlet 88 and extending to said main screen 74 for directing fluid flowing through said soil collecting filter to said recirculating pump inlet at a location downstream of said main screen. 2. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said enclosing means includes a shroud 102 having an inner member 104 mounted for rotation with said primary spray means, and an outer member 106 mounted to form a watertight seal with said main screen 74 . 3. An apparatus as claimed in claim 2 wherein said inner member 104 and said outer member 106 form a labyrinth seal to permit rotation of said inner member relative to said outer member. 4. An apparatus as claimed in claim 3 wherein said inner member 104 includes a U shaped channel 112 and said outer member 106 includes an upper rim 114 , said upper rim engaging said channel to form said labyrinth seal. 5. An apparatus as claimed in claim 4 further characterized by spray jet means 57,118 associated with said primary spray means for directing a jet of fluid from said primary spray means upon said soil collecting filter 86 and wherein said soil collecting circuit 78 includes a collector body 82 superposed to said recirculating pump 56 and said drain pump 66 and beneath said inner member 104 of said shroud 102 . 6. An apparatus as claimed in claim 5 wherein said soil collecting filter 86 is annular in shape and is concentric relative to said pump housing 64 . 7. An apparatus as claimed in claim 6 wherein said drain system includes a drain impeller 138 mounted within said housing 64 such that upon controlled operation of said recirculating pump 56 and said drain pump 66 said impeller can be rotated in a forward direction during said recirculating mode, thereby pumping fluid from said sump 62 through said nozzle 162 , said common fluid channel 84 and said soil collector body 82 , or rotated in a reverse direction during said draining mode such that fluid is discharged from said soil collector body through said soil collecting circuit 78 to said drain channel 130 . 8. An apparatus as claimed in claim 7 wherein said housing 64 includes a pump chamber 126 sized to receive said drain impeller 138 a soil collector channel 132 extending from said chamber and integral with said drain system and said soil collecting circuit 78 such that fluid entering said drain pump inlet 70 during said recirculating mode is pumped through said collector channel 132 to said collector body 82 and through said soil collecting filter 86 and said drain outlet channel 130 extends from said chamber 126 such that fluid entering said drain pump inlet 70 during said draining mode from said sump 62 is pumped through said chamber and through said drain outlet channel to said drain line 68 . 9. An apparatus as claimed in claim 8 wherein said housing 64 includes a stator member 134 extending into said pump chamber 126 toward said drain impeller 138 thereby forming a constriction such that, as said impeller operates in a forward direction in the presence of wash fluid, said constriction causes a slight positive pressure in said drain channel 130 so that wash fluid in said pump chamber does not flow through said drain channel. 10. A method of washing food ware in a dishwasher 50 of the type in which a sump 62 at the bottom of a wash chamber 55 is filled with wash solution, the wash solution is filtered through a main screen 74 to a recirculating pump 56 and pumped by said recirculating pump through spray arms 57 to dislodge food soil from said food ware and form a soil laden fluid solution in said sump, said solution is passed through a soil collecting circuit 78 independently of said recirculating pump, soil particles are filtered from said solution in said soil collecting circuit by a relatively fine screen filter 88 to retain said filtered particles within said circuit, and, at predetermined intervals, said circuit is emptied of collected soil particles, characterized by directing fluid filtered by said fine screen filter to an inlet 72 of said recirculating pump at a location downstream of said main screen 74 .

## Description
DISHWASHER SOIL COLLECTING CIRCUIT The present invention relates to warewashing machines, and more particularly, to domestic or household type dishwashers. Food ware is cleaned in such machines by a sequence of one or more wash and rinse periods under the control of a timer. During a wash period, water and detergent are introduced into the wash chamber of the dishwasher, and this wash fluid is sprayed under pressure onto the food ware by a recirculating pump which pumps the wash fluid through the nozzles of a rotating wash arm system. At the end of each wash period the soiled wash fluid is drained. For rinsing, clean water alone is introduced into the wash chamber, and this rinse fluid is also recirculated and sprayed onto the food ware items, and then drained. Normally, several rinses are required. Such machines generally have several different operational modes or cycles, with the number of wash and rinse periods for each being determined by the soil conditions and the quantities or types of articles typically washed in such a cycle. For example, a dishwasher such as shown in U.S. PatentNo. 3,549,294 assigned to us enables the machine operator to select any of several wash cycles having different time periods and different numbers of wash and rinse periods. In the 294 machine, a Normal Wash is typically used to clean dishes, glasses, and other dinnerware, while a Soak cycle is preferably used for removing heavily baked on encrustations from pots, pans, or casserole dishes which have been used in cooking or baking.While the total quantity of food soil removed during any particular cycle is related, of course, to the number of food ware items placed within the warewasher and the extent to which the machine operator may already have scraped food soil from the items before placing them in the warewasher, it is normally expected that more soil will be removed during a Soak cycle than during aNormal cycle. As a result, a Soak cycle will typically include a static soak period and more wash and or rinse periods than a Normal cycle. The need for several wash and rinse periods results from using the same single wash chamber and recirculating and spraying system for both the washing and rinsing phases of the warewashing operation. No matter how well the fluid may be filtered as it is used, some of the food soil unavoidably becomes suspended within the fluid and then passes continually through the recirculating pump and spraying system as the fluids are being sprayed onto the food ware items. Many of these food soil particles are then redeposited onto the food ware items as they are being washed and or rinsed. Some also remain behind on the walls of the wash chamber and within the recirculating pump and spray arms.Multiple rinse periods help reduce this redeposit problem, since, during each rinse period, fresh water is introduced, sprayed, and then drained, so that less and less of this fine soil remains, and less and less is redeposited. In a common method of washing dishes in a domestic dishwashing machine the fluid which is sprayed onto the food ware is first finely filtered of soil to enable the use of small wash arm orifices typically as small as 4 mm across and a fairly high pressure pump. Without fine filtering, small orifices and acceptably sized pumps could not be used, and high spray pressures and velocities could not be reliably achieved, due to the likelihood of clogging such small orifices. A small orifice high pressure system therefore usually requires a fine filter for capturing rather than recirculating the soil. Such a system also typically uses two pumps, one for pumping the filtered fluids through the wash arms, and another, located essentially upstream of the filter, for pumping the water and collected soils to a drain at the end of a wash or rinse period. However, with systems employing a fine filter the recirculating fluid necessarily passes through food soil which has been captured by the filter. In heavy soil conditions, it is possible for the fluid flow to become sufficiently obstructed at the filter, as by partial clogging thereof, to impair the efficiency and effectiveness of the recirculating and spraying system. It is therefore desirable to remove as much of the soil as possible to a remote location separated from the recirculating and spraying system. This not only prevents clogging of the recirculating and spraying system, but also minimizes disintegration and emulsification of the food soil at the filter, caused by turbulence in the fluids, which continuously agitates the collected food soil debris. The general principle of separate soil removal is widely recognized in a number of other fields. For example, in many oil lubricated machines, such as internal combustion engines, in which the lubricating oil is recirculated, a portion thereof is circulated through a bypass filter, thus extending the effective life of the lubricant and of the engine or machine itself. Similarly, in the clothes washing art, an auxiliary water recirculating path is often provided to pass some of the water through a lint filter for subsequent separate removal. Thus, the more soil removed from the primary recirculating and spray system within the warewasher, and the faster it is removed, the fewer wash and or rinse cycles and hence the less hot water required. Further, by prolonging the usefulness of the water, early soil separation and removal can reduce the amount of hot water needed in each particular period. As a result, energy and water savings can be realized both in the quantity of water consumed during each wash or rinse period, and in the total number of periods required. The prior art relating to domestic dishwashing machines includes several examples of filters intended to supply the advantages of a bypass filter in accordance with the above discussion. However, they are generally only partially effective, or require servicing by the machine operator, or both.Preferably, such a system should remove large as well as small soil particles from the recirculating and spray system as quickly as possible without first requiring them to pass through the recirculating spray system itself , and should flush them completely down the drain during draining of the fluid from the warewasher, with essentially no intervention or assistance from the machine operator. Briefly, the present invention meets the above needs and purposes by providing an inexpensive, highly effective soil collecting circuit which draws food soil laden wash and rinse fluids from the sump of the wash chamber, passes them through a soil collecting circuit where the food soil is filtered out and retained therein, and returns the filtered fluid supernatant to be circulated through the primary spray means. According to one embodiment of the present invention, an improved dishwasher has a wash chamber including a rack for receiving and Supporting food ware therein and a sump at the bottom of the chamber for containing fluid therein primary spray means including a recirculating pump a drain system having a drain pump inlet adjacent the bottom of the sump, a drain outlet channel communicating with a drain, and a drain pump operable in a draining mode for pumping fluid and food soil from the sump to the drain at intervals between successive fluid fills.The improvement consists of a soil collecting circuit having a circuit inlet connected to receive fluid from the sump, a fluid return outlet located within the wash chamber, and a portion, independent of the primary spray means and wash chamber, in fluid communication with the circuit inlet and return outlet. The portion includes a relatively fine screen soil collecting filter for removing food soil from fluid recirculating through the circuit to be retained within the portion during the recirculating mode. The filter has its upstream side in position to have collected soil flushed therefrom t6 the sump during the draining mode. A flow direction control means for establishing bi directional fluid flow between the sump and the portion is included, and is operable for directing fluid and food soil in a first direction from the sump to the portion during the recirculating mode, and operable in a second direction from the portion to the sump during the draining mode. The recirculating pump, drain pump, and portion of the soil collecting circuit are mounted within a pump housing located within the wash chamber. The housing includes a main screen enclosing the inlet to the recirculating pump which is in fluid communication with the sump. The improvement also includes means for selectively controlling the dishwasher to operate the primary spray means and drain system in either a recirculating mode or in a draining mode. In a preferred embodiment, the soil collecting circuit includes a soil collector body within which the food soil is retained during the recirculating mode. The body is adjacent the fluid return outlet and is bordered by the fine filter screen. The soil collecting circuit is independent of the primary spray means within the wash chamber.That is, a typical domestic dishwasher will have one or more spray arms which receive pressurized wash or rinse fluids from a recirculating or wash pump and spray the fluids onto the food ware within the wash chamber of the dishwasher. In such a machine, the wash arms are the primary spray means since they are responsible for and provide the pressurized fluid spray which impinges on the food ware to clean and rinse them. Some dishwashing machines also include other sprayers or sprinklers to supplement the action of the primary spray means, and these can be distinguished by the fact that the manufacturer would consider the supplementary spray members to be helpful but not essential for satisfactory operation of the dishwasher, while the primary spray means is considered essential and necessary. In the embodiments of the invention, the dishwasher has a circulating system consisting of two pumps a recirculating pump and a drain pump.While the recirculating pump functions as part of the aforementioned primary spray means, the drain pump is part of a drain system having a drain pump inlet adjacent the bottom of the sump and a drain outlet communicating with a drain. The soil collecting circuit of the present invention includes a circuit inlet common with the drain pump inlet so that soil laden fluid may be drawn from the sump and pumped through the soil collecting circuit. Thus, the recirculating pump and primary spray means are independent of the soil collecting circuit and soil collector body. The recirculating pump may be reserved for supplying high pressure wash and rinse fluids to the spray arms alone, and the drain pump utilized to supply fluid independently to the soil collecting circuit, or to drain the soil collecting circuit and sump of fluid and food soil. The soil collector body is located in a portion of the fluid bypass circuit which is separated from the wash chamber in order to remove the food soil debris from the wash chamber as quickly as possible, to retain it outside the wash chamber, and to prote ct it from the emulsifying and disintegrating forces of the wash and rinse fluids within the wash chamber as they are being distributed by the primary spray arms. In this sense, the soil collector could be inside the actual dishwasher tank so long as the soil collector defined a protected volume or space which was separated from the remaining volume of the tank. In that case, it would not be possible to place food ware within the volume of the soil collector, so the volume of the soil collector would not form a portion of the volume of the wash chamber.Instead, the volume of the tank would actually be greater than the volume of the wash chamber. Another advantage of the independence of the soil collecting circuit from the primary spray means is that the soil collecting circuit and soil collector body can accept pieces of food soil much larger than that allowed to enter the spray arms which can accept particles no larger than the spray orifices therein without becoming clogged. On the other hand, the soil collecting circuit and soil collector body can accept food soil sizes close to the size of the drain line in the dishwashing mach ine. In the embodiments of the invention, the inlet to the soil collecting circuit and drain system is at the very bottom of the wash chamber.Since most dishwashing machines have sumps, the inlet to the soil collecting circuit is typically at the bottom of the sump so that the food soil washed from the food ware settling to the bottom of the wash chamber can be removed quickly. The soil collector body and collecting circuit are operable in two modes, a soil collecting mode and a soil discharging mode. ln the soil collecting mode the wash or rinse fluids are pumped from the sump to the soil collector body, which filters food soil from the fluids and collects and holds it for subsequent discharge from the dishwashing machine. In the soil discharging mode collected food soil is discharged from the soil collector body and soil collecting circuit back to the sump. The soil collecting circuit is operated in the soil discharging mode whenever the drain system of the dishwashing machine is operated in a draining mode in which wash or rinse fluids are drained out through a drain line in the drain system to a drain.During the draining mode, the soil collecting circuit discharges the collected food soil to the sump proximate the drain inlet so that it passes directly out through the drain line. During the recirculating mode when the wash or rinse fluids are being recirculated within the dishwashing machine, the soil collecting circuit is operated in the soil collecting mode to provide simultaneous and continuous filtering of the fluids by the soil collector body, Thus, the soil collecting circuit provides bi directional fluid flow during a complete washing cycle. Soil laden fluid is pumped through the circuit in one direction from the sump to the collector body during the soil collecting mode, then is permitted to drain from the collector body during the soil discharging mode, flowing in the opposite direction through part of the collecting circuit to the sump.The debris outlet of the collector body comprises a common fluid channel with the portion of the collecting circuit removed from the wash chamber.Consequently, the entire food soil collection and disposal system is contained within a single conduit linking the collector body with the drain system. In each of the embodiments, the collector body is elevated above the drain pump inlet and sump so that fluid and soil may be drained from the collector body by gravity flow. In order to maintain the food soil within the body during the soil collecting mode, the collecting circuit includes a nozzle or venturi upstream of the collector body. During the soil collecting mode, the drain pump pumps fluid and food soil through the nozzle and into the body, creating a relatively high velocity stream of fluid entering the collector body that prevents reverse flow of fluid and food soil from the collector body. During the soil draining mode, output of the drain pump is directed through the drain system toward the drain outlet and not to the common fluid channel, allowing the contents of the collector body to be flushed to the sump and ultimately to the drain inlet. The nozzle is located in a section of the soil collecting circuit which also serves as the debris outlet of the collector body, and is in fluid communication with the sump. During the soil collecting mode, the stream of fluid through the nozzle causes soil laden fluid to flow upwardly from the sump and through the debris outlet to become entrained in the stream and flow to the collector body. Thus, the nozzle acts as a secondary pump during the soil collecting mode. Preferably, the collector body, recirculating pump, and drain pump located within the pump housing are mounted concentrically within the sump, below the wash arms of the primary spray means. The collector body is superposed to the recirculating pump so that the filter screen covering the fluid return outlet of the body is positioned directly below the wash arms. The drain pump is positioned directly below the recirculating pump so that the common soil collecting circuit and drain inlet can receive fluid and soil from the lowest level of the sump. Another advantage of the single housing is that only a single opening is required in the wash chamber which must be sealed against fluid leakage.The single housing also minimizes the lengths of conduit required to link the components of the system together. Indeed, some of the conduits in the aforementioned embodiments may be molded as an integral part of the housing. The drain pump includes an impeller that comminutes or grinds the larger particles of food soil entering the drain soil collecting circuit inlet throughout the recirculating mode. Thus, food soil entering the collector body from the collecting circuit inlet is ground first. During the soil discharging mode, all the food soil present in the fluid in the sump, including that drained from the collector body, which passes through the drain soil collecting circuit inlet, is ground b the drain pump impeller prior to entering the drain system. Thus, the food soil entering the drain during the soil discharging mode has been ground thoroughly before entering the drain line, minimizing the possibility of the drain system clogging. At the same time, the invention effects early and rapid removal of food soil from the fluid in the sump by the fluid bypass circuit to avoid unnecessary and excessive disintegration of the food soil which would result if ground debris were simply recirculated within the wash chamber. In the preferred embodiment of the invention, the main screen is closed at its top by a shroud so that the shroud and main screen enclose the recirculating pump inlet and fluid return outlet of the soil collector body. During the recirculating and soil collecting mode, fluid is pumped through the soil collecting circuit, filtered in the collector body, and passes directly to the recirculating pump inlet behind the main screen. By depositing the effluent from the collector body behind the main screen, less fluid is needed to supply the recirculating pump from the sump, reducing the load on the main screen. The drain pump impeller is mounted on a common drive shaft with the recirculating pump impeller. The two impellers are preferably driven by a reversible motor and, when operated in a forward direction, the recirculating impeller operates in the circulating mode and the drain impeller operates in the soil collecting mode. When the pump motor is operated in the reverse direction, the recirculating pump continues to operate in the recirculating mode and the drain pump operates in the sojl discharging mode. The recirculating pump continues to pump fluid through the spray arms to the sump until the fluid level drops below the inlet to the circulating pump and the pump starves. Fluid and food soil begins to flow from the soil collector body to the sump adjacent the drain inlet as soon as the motor is reversed because the venturi effect has stopped. Spray jets formed in the shroud and in fluid communication with the spray arms of the primary spray means direct water upon the filter screen of the collector and act during the soil discharging mode to flush the retained food particles from the soil collector body.By implementing a reversible motor which drives the drain impeller, the same fluid channel can be used in both the soil collecting mode and the soil discharging mode, thus keeping food soil from the wash chamber at all times during the washing and draining cycles. In an alternate embodiment, the shroud is absent and the main screen of the recirculating pump is joined to the pump housing by a flange extending radially about the side wall of the pump housing below the fluid return outlet of the soil collector body. Thus, during the soil collecting mode of the drain pump, fluid is pumped through the soil collector body and out through the fluid outlet where it flows downwardly adjacent the main screen into the sump where it may be drawn through the main screen to the recirculating pump. The spray jets are formed in the wash arms and may consist merely of openings in a lower surface of each wash arm positioned to direct fluid downwardly upon the collector screen. The spray jets may function both to promote draining of the soil collector body and to prevent clogging of the collector screen during the soil collecting mode. If it is not desired to equip the dishwasher with a reversible motor, an alternate embodiment can be implemented which still retains the advantages of the single pump housing. For example, in a second alternate embodiment of the invention, the drain pump communicates with the nozzle and soil collector body by a fluid inlet conduit, a part of which forms the drain line. A diverter valve mounted on the fluid inlet conduit diverts fluid flowing through the inlet conduit to the collector body during the soil collecting mode and diverts the fluid to the remainder of the drain line and out of the common segment of the soil collecting circuit during the soil discharging mode. As in the previously discussed embodiment, spray jets mounted on the spray arms serve to flush the collected food debris from the soil collector body. Thus, in this third embodiment, the soil collecting circuit comprises the drain inlet, drain pump, fluid inlet conduit and valve, nozzle, common fluid channel, and soil collector body. Coincidental with a portion of the bypass circuit is the drain system which extends from the drain inlet to the drain. Again, food soil debris, once removed from the wash chamber and retained within the collector body, does not re enter the wash chamber at any time during the washing cycles. It is to be expected that there will be food soil debris introduced into the warewashing machine that will be too large for the recirculating and spray system, and some which will be too large for the drain pump and soil collector in the soil collecting circuit. Also, the debris which is removed by the soil collecting filter, regardless of its size, will not all be removed at once. Thus, in the aforementioned embodimeFtts, the need for a main screen still exists. The main filter function is principally to prevent recirculation of food soil debris through the recirculating pump, which would result in emulsification and redepositing of debris on the food ware, and possible clogging of the water spray jets on the spray arms. The main filter thus permits the use of fine spray orifices in the spray arms. The soil collecting circuit operates in the soil collecting mode when wash and rinse fluids are being recirculated within the dishwasher but operates exclusively in the soil draining mode when fluids are drained from the wash chamber through the drain line during the fluid draining mode of the recirculating pump. At that time, no additional food soil is collected or removed by the soil collecting circuit so that food soil wherever situated within the dishwasher may be discharged without hindrance during draining of the wash or rinse fluids. This provides an important advantage over prior art filter systems which operate in series with the primary spray means and continue to capture and entrain food soil debris at the very time it should be released to be flushed down the drain. Thus, the present invention provides very effective early soil removal which is independent of the primary spray means. The principal aspect of the invention is to separate soil from the recirculating wash or rinse water, collect the soil at a point removed from the main dishwashing operation, and subsequently dispose of the collected soil down a sewer or drain, preferably by pumping it under positive pressure to a sink drain or a food waste disposer connected to the sink drain, and simultaneously cleansing the soil collector for its next use. Soil collection in this manner improves main recirculating pump efficiency and obtains better washing results since redeposit of food soil is substantially reduced. The captured food soil debris can be disposed of on command by switching to the soil discharging mode .Thus, disposal of collected food soil debris may be accomplished at the end of each wash or rinse period, when the sump is drained. As a result of the early soil removal, the present invention enables heavily soiled food ware to be cleaned with a smaller number of wash and rinse periods than previously possible. The reduction of the number of wash and rinse periods and the utilization where possible of a smaller quantity of water for each such period results in reduced water consumption, and where hot water is involved, a reduction also in the energy which would have been used to heat the water which has been saved. Therefore, this improvement in washing effectiveness is actually accompanied by an improvement in energy efficiency. In the embodiments of the invention, only one or two moving parts are required for operation of the soil collecting circuit the drain impeller and, in one embodiment a valve in the collecting circuit. The invention is also very tolerant of overload conditions. That is, if the soil collecting compartment in the soil collector body should become filled, this will not interfere with operation of the primary spray means. The high pressure washing and rinsing sprays will continue to be provided for cleaning the food ware items within the warewashing machine, and the collected food soil debris will be discharged into the drain line at the end of that particular wash or rinse cycle. The nozzle of the embodiments serves as a pressure relief valve during such an overload condition to limit the pressure which develops within the soil collecting compartment.Thus, excess pressure which might extrude some of the collected food soil debris through the fine mesh screen will not develop. It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide an improved dishwashing machine having a soil collecting circuit which is independent of the primary spray means to conduct fluid from the wash chamber through a soil collecting circuit which is separated from the wash chamber, to remove, collect, and hold the debris therein and to return the resulting supernatant to supply the primary spray means to provide such a combination in which the soil collector can be operated in both a soil collecting and soil discharging mode in which the soil discharging mode causes the collected food soil debris to be discharged through the drain line in which the removed food soil is protected from disintegration and emulsification due to recirculation and spraying of wash and rinse fluids onto the food ware items in which the food soil is removed directly from the wash chamber without first having to pass through or be propelled by the primary spray means and to provide the above objects and purposes in an inexpensive, versatile, and reliable configuration readily suited for use in a wide variety of dishwashing machines. Other objects and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following description, the accompanying drawings and the appended claims.In order that the invention may be more readily understood, reference will now be made to the accompanying drawings, in which Fig. 1 is a partially broken away cross sectional elevation of a domestic dishwashing machine including a soil collecting circuit according to a preferred embodiment of the present invention Fig. 2 is a cross sectional elevation of the soil collecting circuit of the dishwasher inFig. 1, also showing the recirculating pump and primary spray arms Fig. 3 is an exploded view in perspective of the soil collecting circuit of the preferred embodiment of Fig. 1 Fig. 4 is a plan view of the lower housing base plate of the embodiment of Fig. 2 taken at line 4 4 of Fig. 2 Fig. 5 is a plan view of a screen used to cover the soil collector body of the preferred embodiment of Fig. It Figs. 6A and 6B are perspective views of the drain impeller of the preferred embodiment ofFig. 1 Fig. 7 is the elevation in section of Fig. 2 showing the fluid path during the soil draining mode Fig. 8 is a perspective view of the soil collector and circulating pump of an alternate embodiment of the invention, partially cut away to reveal the interior of the soil collector body Fig. 9 is a side elevation in section of the soil collecting circuit and recirculating pump of the embodiment shown in Fig. 8 Fig. 10 is a plan view of the lower housing base plate of the embodiment of Fig. 8 in which the cover plate is partially broken away to show the drain impeller Fig. 11 is a side elevation in section of a second alternate embodiment of the invention Fig. 12 is a plan view of the lower housing base plate of the embodiment of Fig. 11 taken at lines 12 12 of Fig. 11 Fig. 13 is a chart illustrating a typical operational sequence or machine cycle for a domestic dishwashing machine incorporating the soil collecting circuit according to the invention and Fig. 14 illustrates a variation of the cycle shown in Fig. 13. As shown in Fig. 1, a warewashing machine such as a domestic dishwasher 50 includes conventional upper and lower racks 51 and 52 for supporting food ware, such as cups, saucers, plates, and silverware, within a tank 54. Tank 54 substantially defines the rear, bottom, sides and top of a wash chamber 55 within dishwasher 50 where the washing and rinsing of food ware takes place. The front of chamber 55 is defined by a door not shown which closes tank 54 during washing and rinsing of the food ware. As shown and described in greater detail inU.S. Patent 4,097,307, issued June 27, 1978, assigned to us, and incorporated herein by reference, dishwasher 50 also includes a primary spray means consisting in part of a recirculating pump 56, primary spray arms 57 mounted on fixed shaft 58 Fig. 2 and drive motor 59 linked to a recirculating pump impeller 60 by drive shaft 61. A sump 62 in the bottom of tank 54 comprises part of wash chamber 55, and the recirculating pump 56 is positioned within this sump. As shown in Figs. 1 and 2, a pump housing 64 encloses both recirculating pump 56 and a drain pump 66. Drain pump 66 is part of a drain system which has an opening in the bottom of sump 62 for receiving and draining the wash and rinse fluids from the dishwasher 50, through a drain line 68, and into a conventional household drain not shown , for example. In the embodiment shown in Figs. 1 and 2, the drain pump inlet 70 is the inlet to the drain system. The recirculating pump inlet 72 is located in sump 62 slightly above the drain pump inlet 70.Inlet 72 is protected by a main filter screen 74 supported by the outer edge of a circular divider plate 76 forming a part of pump housing 64 to prevent food soil debris particles from entering the recirculating pump 56 and blocking or clogging the jet spray orifices on spray arms 57. In the preferred form the screen is made of stainless steel with holes of 1.143 mm .045 inches in diameter and 37 open. It will be recognized that the description thus far of machine 50 is of well known and conventional components commonly found in many high quality domestic dishwashing machines. The improvement of the present invention includes a soil collecting circuit 78 which is independent of the primary spray means. Collecting circuit 78 consists in part of a circuit inlet 80r which is common with drain pump inlet 70, a soil collector body 82 integral with pump housing 64, and a fluid inlet conduit 84 extending from the inlet 70, 80 to the collector body. Soil collecting circuit 78 defines a space separated from wash chamber 55. The drain pump inlet 70, which is also the circuit inlet 80, is located substantially at the bottom of sump 62 to expedite removal of food soil as it settles to the bottom of the wash chamber 55. The collector body 82 includes a fine filter screen 86 also shown in Fig. 5 which covers a fluid return outlet 88 that is generally annular in shape and concentric with the pump housing 64.Screen 86 preferably includes a woven nylon mesh 90 extending between and molded into a frame 92 having support spokes. Mesh 90 preferably comprises substantially square openings 0.269 mm .0.0106 inches on a side and is 44 open. Screen 86 is retained by screws 94 to the top of the pump housing 64. As can be seen, screen 86 is of finer mesh than screen 74 for purposes which will become apparent. A deflector plate 96 is also molded into the screen 86 and is positioned above a collector body inlet opening 98 in order to deflect fluid entering the collector body from the fluid inlet conduit 84. Plate 96 is inclined relative to the screen 86 so that fluid impinging upon its underside is deflected about the soil collector chamber 100 within the collector body 82. Deflector plate 96 prevents food soil carried by fluid entering the collector chamber 100 through opening 98 from becoming embedded in the mesh 90 of the screen 86 by impact with the screen caused by the relatively high pressure and high velocity of the fluid stream entering the chamber. Embedded food soil is more difficult to remove from the chamber 100 than food soil suspended in the fluid within the chamber.The inclined orientation of deflector plate 96 provides an additional benefit in that the high pressure stream of fluid entering the chamber 100 through opening 98 is directed laterally about the chamber, in a generally circular path. This constant circular movement of fluid through the chamber 100 during the soil collecting mode prevents accumulation of food soil at any one location in the chamber, thus facilitating the draining of food soil from the chamber during the soil draining mode. As shown in Fig. 2, the fluid return outlet 88 is enclosed by shroud means 102 which is attached to spray arms 57 and main screen 74. Shroud 102 comprises a rotatable disc shaped inner member 104 and a stationary annular outer member 106. Outer member 106 is arcuate in section and includes a lower lip 108 which engages the main screen 74, and prongs 110 depending downwardly to engage the periphery of the frame 92 so that the outer member and screen may be supported in place by resting on the annular extension of divider plate 76 and engaging the main screen. Thus, the main screen 74 and outer member 106 may be removed easily for cleaning by lifting them upwardly away from the pump housing 64, once the spray arms 57 have been lifted off fixed shaft 58. The inner member 104 is integral with the spray arms 57 and its outer periphery defines an inverted, U shaped channel 112 which engages an upper rim 114 of the outer member to form a labyrinth seal. The labyrinth seal permits rotation of the inner member 104 with respect to the outer member 106 during operation of the prprimary spray means. Inner member 104 also includes conduits 116 having downward opening orifices 118 located above filter screen 86, and in fluid communication with the spray arms 57 and hence recirculating pump 56. Orifices 118 form spray jets to clean the filter screen 86 and promote flushing of the soil collector chamber 100. As shown in Figs. 2, 3, and 4, the fluid inlet conduit 84, the segment of the soil collecting circuit between the circuit inlet 80 and collector body 82, is contained within the pump housing 64.Pump housing 64 includes a lower housing base plate 120 and an upper section 122, which are essentially separated by divider plate 76. Plate 76 thus constitutes the fluid dividing line between the primary spray means and the drain system. Base plate 120 defines a passageway 124 which comprises a continuation of the sump 62 beneath the upper section 122 to the circuit inlet 80. The drain pump 66, which is contained within the base plate 120, includes a pump chamber 126 defined by a circular wall 128, a drain channel 130, and a soil collector channel 132. The drain channel 130 forms a part of the drain line 68 and the collector channel 132 provides an entranceway to part of the common fluid channel 137.The wall 128 includes a wall section 134 between drain channel 130 and soil collector channel 132, and beneath passageway 124, which defines an arc having a radius of curvature less than that of the remainder of the wall. As shown in Figs. 2 and 3, the upper section 122 includes a vertical extension 135 which defines the collector chamber 100. Collector chamber 100 includes a floor 136 which slopes toward the fluid inlet opening 98 to facilitate draining the chamber 100. A common fluid channel 137, which forms an integral part of the fluid inlet conduit 84, extends vertically downward from the inlet opening 98. As shown in Fig. 4, a combination drain impeller and food disposer 138 is mounted within chamber 126 and has a diameter such that a constriction is formed between the wall section 134 and the outer periphery of the impeller. As shown in Figs.6A and 6B, the impeller 138 includes a circular base 139 having a plurality of upturned, overlapping teeth 140 about its periphery. Teeth 140 are overlapped to form outer and inner opposing edges 142, 144 which provide blade like surfaces or vanes for propelling fluid about the recess 126 in both forward and reverse directions of rotation. Additionally, internal opposing edges 144 provide moving cutting edges of a food disposer.Impeller 138 includes a plurality of holes 146 formed in the base 139 and spaced in a circular pattern about a hub 148. The holes 146 provide means for fluid and comminuted food soil flowing downwardly through the impeller 138 to flow beneath the base 139 and outside of the teeth 140 to be propelled either to the drain channel 130 or the soil collector channel 132. Lugs 150 formed on the underside of the base 139 and extending radially from the hub 148 also urge fluid beneath the impeller 138 to the wall 128. The base 139 also includes upwardly extending breakers 152 which carry soil to and force it against a stationary cutting tooth 153 depending from a cover plate 154 Figs. 2 and 5 . As shown in Figs. 2, 3, and 5, the impeller 138 is covered by the cover plate 154 having an opening 156 concentric with the impeller which comprises the soil collecting circuit and drain system inlets 80, 70 respectively. Cover plate 154 includes a first arm 157 which covers the drain channel 130 and a second arm 158 extending over the soil collector channel 132. Second arm 158 defines a circular cut out 160 which forms a nozzle 162 with the curved wall 164 of the base plate 120. Nozzle 162 is partially shielded from fluid flowing along the passageway 124 by a shield 163 which also guides fluid to the cover plate opening 156. The opening 156 is bordered by a downturned rim 166 which promotes flow of fluid downwardly onto the base 139 of the impeller 138. A portion of rim 166 supports the stationary cutting tooth 153. The common fluid channel 137 extends downwardly from the inlet opening 98 in the collector body 82 to a point slightly above the nozzle 162, forming a gap in the fluid inlet conduit 84 above the nozzle which is in fluid communication with the passageway 124 segment of the sump 62. An opening 155 is formed in divider plate 76 to provide for fluid and soil flow between nozzle 162 and inlet opening 98. The operation of the invention is shown inFigs. 2 and 7 and is as follows. When the dishwasher is operated in a washing or rinsing cycle, the primary spray means operates in a fluid recirculating mode in which it recirculates and sprays fluid from the sump 62 onto the food ware. The recirculating pump 56 is activated by the drive motor so that the recirculating pump and impeller 60 draws fluid through the recirculating pump inlet 72 and pumps it up through the pump housing 64 to the spray arms 57. Fluid entering the spray arms 57 exits small holes formed in the arms not shown and is sprayed upon the food ware in a manner well known in the art. The fluid entering the recirculating pump inlet 72 from the sump 62 is strained through the main filter screen 74 so that the larger food soil remains within the sump and only filtered fluid is pumped by the impeller 60 to the spray arms 57. At the same time the recirculating pump 56 is operating in the recirculating mode, the drain pump 66 is operating in a soil collecting mode to collect all soil particles large enough to enter the passageway 124. The drain pump impeller 138 rotates in a forward mode with the recirculating pump impeller 60 on the drive shaft 61, thereby pumping fluid flowing onto the impeller base 139 from soil collecting circuit inlet 80 along the soil collecting channel 132 of the fluid inlet conduit 84. The fluid path is shown by dashed arrows A in Fig. 2.Fluid pumped along the fluid inlet conduit 84 is accelerated as it passes through the nozzle 162 and is directed. upwardly along the common fluid channel 137, through the fluid inlet opening 98, and into the soil collecting chamber 100 of the soil collector body 82. The fluid pumped along the fluid inlet conduit 84 is drawn from the sump 62 and flows through the passageway 124 of the sump, over the plate 154 and through the opening 156, which defines the inlet 80 of the soil collecting circuit 78.Food soil suspended in the fluid entering the opening 156 is comminuted by the tooth 153 and cutting edges 144 of the drain impeller 138 before passing through the holes 146 and into the portion of the pump chamber 126 beneath the impeller. The wall section 134, which forms a tight clearance with the drain impeller 138, allows minimum water slippage therealong. The wall 128 immediately adjacent channels 130 and 132 and outside section 134, has a greater radius of curvature than the section 134, forming an expansion area which creates a velocity induced pressure differential. The design of the constriction may be varied in clearance to provide a slight negative or a slight positive pressure at the drain channel 130, and a large positive pressure at the soil collecting channel 132. A check valve not shown may be provided in drain line 68 adjacent channel 130, however, to prevent water in the drain line from re entering the dishwasher. The relatively high pressure and high velocity stream fluid exiting from the nozzle 162 and traveling upwardly along the common fluid channel 137 tends to draw along with it fluid and suspended food soil present in the passageway 124 in the immediate region surrounding the shield 163 which partially encloses the gap. The nozzle 162 thus acts as an injection pump by entraining fluid and food soil from the sump within a stream of fluid entering the soil collector body 82. Once the fluid and suspended food soil enters the soil collector body 82, it impinges upon a deflector plate 96 and is diverted from its substantially vertical path to a substantially horizontal path around the circular soil collector chamber 100. As chamber 100 is pressurized, the nylon mesh 90 of screen 86 can bulge or billow slightly, thus enabling it to stay essentially free of minerals introduced with the wash water. The retentivity of nylon in effect permits the mesh 90 to flex between pressure and non pressure conditions. As the collector chamber 100 fills with fluid and food soil, the fluid exits the fluid outlet 88 of the soil collector 82 and is strained through the screen 86, thereby leaving the food soil within the collector chamber. The strained fluid, now substantially free of soil particles, travels over the sides of the screen 86 and downwardly beneath the shroud 102. The fluid is deposited in the drain recirculating inlet 72 between the upper section 122 of the pump housing 64 and the main filter screen 74. Thus, the effluent of the soil collecting chamber 100 is isolated at all times from the sump 62 until it enters the recirculating pump inlet 72.This additional fluid supplied to the recirculating pump inlet 72 reduces the volume of fluid required to pass through the main screen 74 from the sump 62, thereby reducing the load on the main screen and the possibility of the main screen becoming clogged during washing and rinsing. Food soil is retained within the chamber 100 since the relatively high velocity stream of fluid entering the inlet 98 prevents reverse flow of soil through the inlet. During the soil collecting mode, a portion of the fluid pumped through the recirculating pump 56 enters the conduits 116 formed in the inner member 104 of the shroud means 102 and communicating with the primary spray arms 57 where it passes through the orifices 118 and is directed upon the upper surface of the screen 86. As the primary spray arms 57 rotate during the recirculating mode, the spray jets formed by the orifices 118 traverse the nylon mesh 90 of the screen 86 to backflush the mesh and prevent clogging of the mesh by food soil retained within the soil collector body 82. The nylon mesh 90 has a degree of flexibility, allowing it to bulge slightly when chamber 100 is under pressure. This provides an inherent self cleaning aspect to the screen 86, preventing water minerals from gathering on the screen and reducing its effectiveness.In addition, the shroud means 102 prevents utensils and large food soil from falling onto the screen 86 and damaging it. Accessibility to screen 86, if cleaning or replacement is required, is obtained by merely lifting spray arms 57 to remove them and member 104 from shaft 58. Additionally member 106 may be unsnapped at prongs 110 for removal of it and screen 74, all without tools. When the dishwasher 50 is operated in a drain cycle, as shown in Fig. 7, the primary spray means and recirculating pump 56 continues to operate in a fluid circulating mode. In this mode, the pump motor reverses the direction of its rotation of the drive shaft 61, thereby causing the circulating pump impeller 60 and drain pump impeller 138 to reverse rotation. With regard to the recirculating pump 56, the symmetric configuration of the pump and impeller 60 cause the recirculating pump to function in the same manner as during the recirculating mode to pump fluid from the pump inlet 72 through the primary spray arms 57 and conduits 116 within the inner member 104 of the shroud means 102. This action continues to spray fluid upon the food ware and continues to backflush the nylon mesh 90 of the screen 86 until the water level in the sump is below the inlet to pump 56. However, due to the aforementioned geometry of the drain pump chamber 126 and drain pump impeller 138, reverse rotation of the drain impeller causes the fluid entering the drain pump inlet 70 shown as arrows B to be swirled in an opposite direction and pumped along the drain channel 130 to the drain line and ultimately to a drain. The soil collector channel 132 now goes under a slight negative pres sure. Accordingly, the soil collecting circuit 78 operates in a soil discharging mode as the collector fluid and retained food soil within chamber 100 flow across the downwardly sloping floor 136 end into the fluid inlet opening 98. Fluid and food soil continue to flow down wardly along the common fluid channel 137 and enter the gap between the common fluid channel and the nozzle 162. At this point, the fluid and food soil will tend to follow the path of least resistance and flow along the plate 154 and re enter the drain pump 66 through the drain pump inlet 70, again becoming comminuted by tooth 153 and cutting edges 144 prior to entering the drain channel 130. Thus, the common fluid channel 137 provides a conduit for upward fluid flow from the drain pump 66 to the soil col lector body 82 during the soil collecting mode and downward flow of fluid and food soil from the col lector body to the drain pump in the soil draining mode. Therefore, the common fluid channel 137 provides a conduit for bi directional fluid flow during a wash cycle. Flushing of the collector chamber 100 is effected by the orifices 118 of the spray jets which supply filtered fluid to the mesh 90 which flows through the mesh and into the collector body 82 to provide a liquid medium to convey the collected food soil back to the fluid inlet conduit 84. This backflushing action continues until the fluid level within the sump drops below the inlet 72 of the recirculating pump 56 whereupon the recirculating pump air bends from lack of water to pump. At this time, the drain pump inlet 70, which is located beneath the recirculating pump inlet 72, continues to receive fluid from the sump and suspended food soil within the fluid, helping to flush the food soil flowing downwardly from the soil collector 82 to the drain pump 60.Thus, all food soil removed from the food ware within the dishwasher is ground at least once by the drain impeller food disposer 138 prior to entering the drain channel 130 and drain line, even though it may have originally entered the collector chamber 100 as a result of the jet pump action issuing from nozzle 162. That food soil which entered the drain pump 66 during the soil collecting mode and was ground prior to being stored in the soil collector 82, is twice ground in the course of any given wash or rinse fill of a washing cycle, further enhancing draining of the soiled water. An alternate embodiment of the invention is shown in Figs. 8, 9, and 10. This embodiment is similar in construction to the previously discussed preferred embodiment. Accordingly, those structural elements which perform the same functions in this alternate embodiment shall be given the same numbers as those used to denote the corresponding elements in the preferred embodiment, followed by the letter A . As shown in Figs. 8 and 9, the recirculating pump 56A and drain pump 66A together are housed within a pump housing 64A located at the bottom of the sump 62A of a dishwasher. Primary spray arms 57A are mounted for rotation on fixed shaft 58A within the pump housing 64A. Pump housing 64A includes a vertical extension 135A which defines the soil collector body 82A. Soil collector body 82A also includes a conical shaped floor 136A which separates it from the volutes of the recirculating pump 56A. The floor 136A defines a fluid inlet opening 98A, located at the portion of the floor having the lowest elevation, and communicating with a common fluid channel 137A. The fluid return outlet 88A of the collector body 82A is enclosed by a screen 86A. The vertical extension 135A supports an annular flange 168 which extends about the periphery of the screen 86A and engages the upper edge of a main filter screen 74A.The vertical extension 135A also supports a deflector plate 96A which is positioned above the fluid inlet opening 98A. The alternate embodiment shown in Figs. 8, 9, and 10 is distinguishable from the preferred embodiment in that it lacks the shroud structure of the preferred embodiment. Rather than having an inner annular member which defines spray jets, the spray arms 57A themselves include orifices 118A which direct fluid from within the spray arms downwardly onto the upper surface of the screen 86A to backflush the screen during the soil collecting mode and to facilitate flushing of the collector chamber 100A during the soil draining mode. A second distinction between the alternate embodiment and the preferred embodiment is that, with the alternate embodiment, the main screen 74A is enclosed by the annular flange 168 so that the effluent from the soil collector 82A cannot return to the recirculating pump inlet 72A without again passing through the screen 74A. As shown in Figs. 9 and 10, the construction of the lower housing base plate 120A is similar to its counterpart in the preferred embodiment. The base plate 120A defines a passageway 124A which comprises an extension of the sump 62A beneath the recirculating pump 56A and over a cover plate 154A.The cover plate 154A covers the recess 126A which houses the drain pump impeller 138A. The drain pump recess 126A includes a drain channel 130A and a soil collecting channel 132A. Thus, the alternate embodiment includes a soil collecting circuit 78A which begins at the drain pump inlet 70A and extends along the soil collector channel 132A, upwardly through the nozzle 162A and common fluid channel 137A and terminates at the fluid outlet 88A of the soil collector body 82A. The nozzle 162A is formed in the cover plate 154A and is shielded from fluid flowing through the passageway 124A by a shield 163A formed in the base plate 120A. When a dishwasher having the pump and collector system of the alternate embodiment is operated in a wash or rinse cycle, fluid enters the passageway 124A and into the soil collecting circuit 78A, where it is pumped by the drain pump 66A along the fluid inlet conduit to the soil collector body 82A. The nozzle 162A creates a stream of highvelocity high pressure fluid and food soil which effectively prevents downward flow of fluid along the common fluid channel 137A during this period.The fluid impinges upon the deflector plate 96A and is distributed throughout the annular collector chamber lOOA. When the chamber has become full of fluid and food soil, the fluid flowing out the fluid outlet 88A is strained through the screen 86A and flows over the annular flange 168, down the main filter screen 74A and into the sump 62A where it mixes with the fluid and suspended food soil therein.As this process continues, the food soil removed from the food ware within the wash chamber will become collected within the soil collecting chamber lOOA, resulting in a relatively clean solution of fluid within the sump 62A. This tends to reduce the load on the main screen 74A to filter food soil from the fluid entering the recirculating pump inlet 72A, thereby lessening the possibility that the main screen might become clogged thereby partially starving the recirculating pump 56A. During the draining mode, the drain pump reverses rotation and pumps the fluid from the sump along the drain channel 130A and down the drain line 68A to a drain. At the same time fluid and food soil collected within the soil collecting chamber lOOA drains back down the fluid inlet conduit 84A to the drain pump 66A where it is ground and pumped to the drain line 68A. The recirculating pump 56A functions in a manner similar to that of the preferred embodiment during the recirculating or soil collecting mode, the recirculating pump pumps fluid from the sump 62A through the screen 74A and into the spray arms 57A where orifices 118A act to backflush the screen 86A. During the fluid draining or soil discharging mode, the recirculating pump 56A continues to spray fluid through the spray arms 57A and orifices 118A, the latter of which act to flush the soil collecting chamber 100A of food soil until the fluid level within the sump drops below the fluid inlet 72A at which time the recirculating pump 56A starves. Figs. 11 and 12 show a second alternate embodiment of the pump and soil collecting assembly of the invention which is similar in structure and function to the alternate embodiment shown in Figs. 8, 9, and 10 discussed above. Accordingly, those elements having analogs present in the previous embodiment shall be given the same reference numerals, except that the numerals for the second alternate embodiment shall be followed by the letter B . The second alternate embodiment shown inFigs. 10 and 11 is identical to the previously discussed alternate embodiment of Figs. 8, 9, and 10 with respect to the construction of the recirculating pump 56B, the upper portion 122B of the pump housing 64B, and the primary spray arms 57B. The pump housing 64B is also mounted concentrically within the floor of the sump 62B. The common fluid channel 137B of the soil collecting circuit 78B is also identical to that in the alternate embodiment. However, the structure of the lower housing base plate 122B has been modified so that a drain pump 66B utilizing a non reversible motor not shown may be used. Fluid entering the drain pump 66B is directed to a single fluid channel 176. Single fluid channel 176 bifurcates into the drain line 68B or a connecting conduit 177 extending to the nozzle 162B. A flap valve 178 is positioned at the juncture of the drain line 68B and the connecting conduit 177B. Thus, when the dishwasher is operating in the recirculating or soil collecting mode, fluid pumped from the drain pump 66B is directed along the single fluid channel 176 upwardly to the soil collector 82B. When the dishwasher is operated in the fluid draining or soil discharging mode, the impeller 138B continues to rotate in the same direction as for the fluid recirculating mode, but the flap valve 178 is rotated to close the connecting conduit 177B between the valve and the nozzle 162B of the soil collecting circuit 78B. Thus, fluid pumped by the drain impeller 138B travels along the fluid channel 176 and out the drain line 68B. Fluid and collected food soil within the soil collector 82B drains downwardly along the common fluid channel 137B to the gap between the common fluid channel and the nozzle 162B where it enters the passageway 124B of the sump 62B and flows over the cover plate 154B to the drain impeller 138B. The food soil entering the drain pump 66B during the soil discharging mode is ground by the action of the impeller prior to entering the single fluid channel 176. In addition, that food soil pumped by the impeller 138B to the soil collector 82B during the soil collecting mode is also ground.Thus, much of the food soil is ground twice prior to being pumped to the drain line 68B. However, it should be noted that, as with the previously discussed embodiments, some fluid and food soil is entrained in the upward flowing jet of fluid from the nozzle 162B to the soil collector body 82B from the passageway 124B during the recirculating or soil collecting mode. This food soil does not pass through the drain pump 136B prior to entering the soil collector body 82B and consequently is not ground until the discharging mode As shown in Fig. 12, the lower housing base plate 120B defines a pump recess 126B having a single trough 130B through which fluid is pumped during both the soil collecting mode and soil draining mode. The nozzle 162B is formed in the base plate 120B and is protected by a shield 163B which helps guide fluid along the passageway 124B to the drain pump opening 70B. Thus, the soil collecting circuit 78B includes a circuit inlet BOB which is common with the drain pump inlet 70B, the drain pump recess 126B, the trough 130B, the fluid inlet conduit 84B, and the soil collector 828. The fluid inlet conduit includes the single fluid channel 176, the connecting conduit 177, nozzle 162B, and common fluid channel 137C. The drain system of the second alternate embodiment begins at the drain inlet 70B and extends through the pump recess 126B, the single fluid channel 176, and the drain line 68B. Thus, the portion of the drain system extending from the drain inlet 70B to the flap valve 178 is common with the soil collecting circuit 788. Fig. 13 illustrates a typical wash cycle sequence for a dishwasher such as those previously discussed. This chart is self explanatory, showing a sequence of operations such as fill, wash and drain. Fig. 14 shows the first several minutes of the cycle of Fig. 13, to which an optional short purge cycle has been added. The balance of the Fig.24 cycle is the same as the balance of the Fig. 13 cycle. The optional cycle shown in Fig. 14 is particularly advantageous for use with a dishwasher having a soil collecting circuit. In this cycle, the soil collector body receives a very quick purge to remove any food soil which might remain following a normal drain cycle. First, it should be noted that both the drain pump and recirculating pump are normally operated while fluid is being introduced into wash chamber during a fill period in the operation of the dishwasher. Since the drain pump inlet is preferably located at the very bottom of the sump, the first fluid introduced into the wash chamber will be circulated through the soil collecting circuit and into the soil collector body. Due to the operation of the nozzle 162 etc., the collector chamber will quickly fill with fluid. If, before sump has begun to fill, the dishwasher is then switched to the drain mode of operation, the level of fluid in the collector chamber will be well above that in the sump, and the fluid will rush out of the chamber, through the common fluid channel, and into the sump adjacent the drain pump inlet. This rapid outflowing of the fluid will flush most of the food which may remain in the chamber through the drain line. Therefore, is possible to provide the timer for the dishwasher with a short fill cycle comprising substantially less than the average amount of wash or rinse fluid which is supplied during a normal wash or rinse period. The timer would then operate the drain pump to fill chamber with fluid from the short fill, following which the drain system would be operated to drain the fluid from the dishwasher. While the methods herein described, and the forms of apparatus for carrying them into effect, constitute preferred embodiments of this invention, it is to be understood that the invention is not limited thereto, and that changes may be made therein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.