# Improvements in or relating to the processing of light sensitive media, for example lithographic printing plates.

## Abstract
In the processing of light sensitive media, for example lithographic printing plates, the active components of the developer are used up and need replenishment, particularly when silver halide or similar technology is involved. The modulation signal of a laser used to expose the light sensitive media is integrated to provide a signal indicative of the exposed image area to be developed and this signal is used to control the addition of replenishment material. Replenishment required to overcome the degradation of the active components with time may also be incorporated. In a preferred embodiment of a replenishment control circuit a laser beam modulator 31 supplies a modulation signal to an integrator comprising a high output frequency sampler 32, a counter 33 and a laser on counter 34a. A developer circulating pump 35 and a replenishment pump 36 are controlled by a microprocessor 34 which contains the laser on counter 34a and a replenishment dose required counter 34c fed by the counter 34a and a time base generator 34b which provides a purely time dependent component of the replenishment required count. A replenishment dose control counter 34d controls operation of the pumps 35 and 36 in dependence upon the content of the dose required counter 34c.

## Claims
Claims 1. A method of controlling replenishment of active component of a developer during processing of lightsensitive media, comprising taking an input signal modulating the beam of a laser used for exposing a light sensitive medium, integrating said signal to provide measurement of the image area of the lightsensitive medium, and using said integrated signal to control means for adding replenisher material. 2. A method according to claim 1, in which replenisher material is further added on a timerelated basis independently of said image area. 3. A circuit for controlling replenishment of active component of a developer during processing of light sensitive media, comprising an integrator for integrating an input modulation signal for a laser used for exposing a light sensitive medium, and means for converting the integrated signal into a signal capable of controlling means for adding replenisher material. 4. A circuit according to claim 3, in which said integrator comprises a sampling circuit comprising a high frequency pulse generator and an AND gate, the output from said sampling circuit being, in use, in the form of bursts of pulses, the number of saidspulses in said bursts being representative of the length of pulses in said input modulation signal a multiple bit binary counter for summing said pulses from said sampling circuit and for producing an output pulse when a predetermined count capacity is reached and a laser on counter for summing the output pulses from said7 bi nary counter and for producing an output signal when .a. re set count is reached. 5. A circuit according to claim 4, in which said integrated signal converting means comprises a replenishment dose control counter and a tachometer associated with a replenishment pump, ro signal fromusaid laser on counter.controlling i of said dose control counter to a pre satiie etto start said replenishment pump, the signal from said tachometer being used to decrement said control counter to zero. 6. A circuit according to claim 5, comprising a time base signal generator for producing signals at regular intervals, said signals being fed with the signal from said laser on counter to a replenishment dose required counter which controls said loading of said replenishment dose control counter, the count in said dose required counter being indicative of the replenishment required due to the active components of the developer being used up by developing the image area and by time and environmental degredation. 7. A circuit according to claim 3, comprising a signal conditioning circuit for converting the input modulation signal to a signal having a standard amplitude and polarity. 8. A circuit according to claim integrator is a high speed linear integrator for producing an analogue integral of the input modulation signal. 9. A circuit according to claim 8, in which said integrated signal converting means comprises a level trigger circuit for digitising the analogue signal, a counter, and a pulse stretcher for extending the output pulse from said counter. a predetermined count capacity is reached and a aer on counter for summing the output pulses from said binary counter and for producing an output signal when a preset count is reached. 5. A circuit according to claim 4, in which said integrated sign2l converting means comprises a replenishment dose control counter and a tachometer associated with a replenishment pump, the output signal from s,aid laser on counter controlling loading of said dose control counter to a pre set figure to start said replenishment pump, the signal from said tachometer being used to decrement said dose control counter to zero. 6. A circuit according to claim 5, comprising a time base signal generator for producing signals at regular intervals, said signals being fed with the signal from said laser on counter to a replenishment dose required counter which controls said loading of said replenishment dose control counter, the count in said dose required counter being indicative of the replenishment required due to the active components of the developer being used up by developing the image area and by time and environmental degredation. 7. A circuit according to claim 3, comprising a signal conditioning circuit for converting the input modulation signal to a signal having a standard amplitude and polarity. 8. A circuit according to claim 3 or 7, in uhidlsaid integrator is a high speed linear integrator for producing an analogue integral of the input modulation

## Description
Improvements in or Relating to the Processing of Li Sensitive media, for example Lithographic Printing Plates. This invention relates to the processing of light sensitive media, for e ample lithographic plates The increasing use in recent years of electronic methods for generating, transmitting and storing inforr a tion has led to a trend in, for example, the lithographic printing industry towards lithographic plazas which can take advantage of such methods. In particular the trend has been towards plates which can be exposed to light using a laser. TuXo types of plates which are produced in the lithographic printing industry, this particular industry and product having been cited by way of example only, are electrostatic plates and plates based on silver halide and similar technology. Both these types of plates are suitable for laser exposure and moreover are additive, ise. the image material is deposited onto the hydrophilic substrate as distinct from the conventional subtractive plate where the light sensitive material is removed from the non image areas. As the image forming material is being withdrawn from the developer, it is necessary that the developer has its active components replenished at intervals. It is desirable that this replenishment is carried out accurately as too much or too little can produce inconsistent development results. In particular, too little replenishment could produce a weakened image and too much replenishment could be asteful, particular y in the case oi silver hali plates. One way ol assessing the amount of replenishment required is based on the number of plates that have been processed. However, this lacks accuracy as the actual image area on each plate can vary widely. The provision of accurate replenishment may also be a problem uith respect to processing ol other lightsensitive media, for example films, and also in electrostatic copiers in which accurate toner replenishment may be desirable. It is an object ol this invention to provide a method and apparatus for accurate replenishment in dependence on the actual image area. According to one aspect of the present invention, there is provided a replenishment method comprising taking an input signal modulating the beam of a laser used for exposing a light sensitive medium, integrating said signal to provide measurement of the image area of the light sensitive medium, and using said integrated signal to control means for adding replenisher material. In, for example, the case of developing lithographic plates, whilst replenishment of the developer in dependence on the image area processed is applicable to both electrostatic and silver halide developers, in the case of the latter developers, it may also be n ecessarv to replenish the active components on a regular time basis regardless of the image area processed, due to the fact that They become igraid with time and by environmental factors e.g. contact with the atmosphere. According to a development of the invention therefore, the replenishment method further includes adding a predetermined amount of replenisher material at predetermined intervals, independently of the image area processed. According to a further aspect of the invention, there is provided a replenishment control circuit comprising an integrating circuit for integrating an input modulation signal for a laser used for exposing a light sensitive medium, and means for converting the integrated signal into a signal capable of controlling means for adding replenisher material. According to a development, the control circuit includes a signal conditioning circuit for converting the input signal to a signal having standard amplitude and polarity. According to a further development, the signal converting means comprises a level trigger circuit for converting the analogue integrated signal to digital form, a counter, a pulse stretcher for extending the length of the counter output pulse, and a pump controller circuit. in an alternative embodiment, said integrator comprises a sampling circuit comprising a high frequency pulse generator and an AND gate, the output from said sampling circuit being, in use, in the form of bursts of pulses, the number of said pulses in said bursts being representative of the length of pulses in said input modulation signal a multiple bit binary counter for summing said pulses from said sampling circuit and for producing an output pulse when a predetermined count capacity is reached and a laser on counter for summing the output pulses from said binary counter and for producing an output signal when a pre set count is reached. In the alternative embodiment, the integratedsignal converting means may comprise a replenishment dose control counter and a tachometer associated with a replenishment pump, the output signal from said laser on counter controlling loaeing Of said dose control counter to a reset figure to start said replenishment pump, the signal from said tachometer being used to decrement said dose control counter to zero. There may be a time base signal generator for producing signals at regular intervals, said signals being fed with the signal from said laser on counter to a replenishment dose reouired counter rtich controls the loading of said replenishment dose control counter, the count in said dose required counter being indicative of the replenishment required due to the active components of the developer being used up by developing the image area and or by time and environmental degradation. For a better understanding of the invention and to show how the same may be carried into effect, reference will now be made, by way of example, to the accompanying drawings in which Fig. 1 is a flow diagram of a complete copy to plate system with plate image area dependent replenishment for use in producing, by way of example, a finished lithographic printing plate Fig. 2 is a block diagram of a first embodiment of the replenishment control circuit and Fig. 3 is a block diagram of a second embodiment of the replenishment control circuit. Referring to Figure l, a copy 3 to be reproduced on a lithographic printing plate is scanned by a read laser 1 under the control of a scanner 2. The beam reflected from the lighter areas of the copy 3 is passed to a photo multiplier 4 which thus produces an analogue signal which is a function of the variation of the lighter and darker areas of the copy. This analogue signal is passed to an analogue digital converter 5 which produces a digital output signal capable by means of a modulator 6 of modulating a write laser 7, which under the control of a scanner 8, co ordinated with the read scanner 2, is used to expose the printing plate.9. The above system may vary in knoun .vays and for further details reference may be made to high SpeedLaser Printing by K. Starkweather in Volume 4 of LaserApplications, edited by Joseph W. Goodman and Monte Ross and published by Academic Press. Inthe pretent method and apparatus, the modulator drive signal, i.e. the output from the analogue digital converter 5, is processed by a replenishment control circuit 10 to provide a signal which is representative of the area of the plate exposed and which is capable of controlling means for adding replenisher to a plate processor 12,for example a pump 11, to produce a processed plate 13. For optimum utility, the replenishment control circuit 30 will need to be ab. to handle input signals of different parameters derived from different laser systems and be able to drive various types of replenishment pumps. A suitable replenishment control circuit 10 is shown in Figure 2. The signal from the AD converter 5 is connected to line A and provides the input to a signal conditioner 20. In this embodiment, therefore, the input signal to the modulator 6 is tapped to provide the input signal, modulating the laser beam, which is integrated in accordance with the present invention.Depending on the type of laser system used, this signal may be anywhere between a few millivolts and several tens of volts and of either polarity. It is necessary, therefore, to standardise the amplitude, and polarity.To accomplish this, the signal conditioner 20 has a plug in module 20A that attenuates the signal resistively down to a preset level and inverts its polarity if necessary. The degree of attenuatlon may be varied to suit the particular laser system being used. The signal is amplified to a standard voltage. The construction of the signal conditioner 20 will be readily apparent to the man skilled in the art, and forms no part of the present invention. The standardised signal is passed to a highspeed linear integrator 21 thathas afull scale time constant of about 10 micro seconds. The output from the integrator is a linear integral of the input voltage with respect to time and is used to drive a level trigger 22. As the input voltage is uni polar, the integrator 21 would soon saturate unless reset to zero. This reset function is accomplished by a signal fed back from the trigger 22. It is essential or at least desirable that the time to reset the integrator is insignificant with respect to the temporal resolution of the input signal. To achiee this, a reset mechanisrn is provided wIi2 ch uses a solid state switch having an impedance that gives a small CR product relative to the time constant of the integrator. The level trigger 22 converts the analogue signal from the integrator 21 to digital form for use by the rest of the system. As the integrated signal ramps up, its level is compared continuously to an accurately preset voltage level. As the integrator signal passes the preset voltage the output of tbe level trigger changes state it goes from a logical 0 voltage to a logical 1 voltage. This change of state is both used as a digital output and fed back to the integrator. The signal that is fed back to the integrator is used to reset the integrator to its zero state. This of course will reduce the output voltage to zero and hence the level trigger will change its state back again to its initial state. The net effect is to produce an output pulse with a duration of the same order as the reset time of the integrator.To ensure that a proper reset of the integrator is achieved it is necessary that the level trigger exhibit a controlled amount of hysteresis. The output pulse is fed to a binary coded decimal BCD counter 23 with six digits resolution, preceded by a divide by 1000 prescaler. The BCD counter is preloaded with a value defined by a module 23A. The counter then counts downwards the pulses from the level trigger via the prescaler until a count of zero is reached at which point e counter generates an underflow signal vL niC1J cli fed back to the load gate of the counter to preload thv count from the module 23A. This provides a cyclica process with a constant divider that can be established at assembly time or changed in the field. The number of pulses received by the counter is exactly proportional to the amount of exposed area on the laser scan, assuming that any overscan is on white area.The constant of proportionality is governed precisely by the scanning speed which is fixed for any particular.type of laser camera. ByrepresentlngtEls constant of proportionality as the preset count in the module 23A, a signal can be derived at the output of the counter that is equivalent to a precise amount of exposed area regardless of the type of laser system. The initial state of the counter at switch on is significant as it is required to allow for an initial dose of developer or suppress this initial dose until the required area of emulsion has been exposed. To accomplish this, there is a section of the module 23A that resets the counter to zero or presets it as desired at switch on. The reset signal from the counter is used as a signal to drive a pump controller 25 via a pulse stretcher 24. The pulse stretcher 24 is required to extend the pulse so as to provide sufficient drive to the pump controller 25. The pulse that is derived from the counter reset is only as long as the time required to reset the digital electronics of the counter. This is lypica3 y a vcry short time, of the order oi 5 o nanoseconds. The amount of energy in such a pulse is very small and hence is insuffjcient to drive the power electronics of the pump controller 25, or even to transmit over more than a couple of centimetres of connecting wire.For this reason the pulse is stretched from a few nanoseconds to about 10 microseconds by a fixed duration monostable. This gives a reliable pulse with known characteristics that can.be fed to the pump controller 25. The pump controller has the job of driving a developer pump 26 that is of unspecified type, but would be expected to be of the small positive displacement type, driven by a small a.c. motor. As the amount of developer that is required depends upon the chemical regime employed, the duration of the pumping cycle is variable. To satisfy this demand, the pump controller contains a 3 digit BCD counter that ispreloaded with an amount of developer to dose by means of a module 25A. When a signal is received from the pulse stretcher the value in the module 25A is loaded into the pump controller counter. This counter then registers non zero which drives a solid state switch to provide a mains output on line d. The counter then starts count down towards zero.When zero is reached the output on line d is turned off and iurther counting inhibited until the next pulse is received from the pulse stretcherThe signal that is used to decrement the pump controller counter can be derived from one of two sourc s. s the first instance a monitoring device on the pump itself, for example a reed switch in a peristaltic pump, can be used to .provide a signal on line b.Alternatively, a fixed frequency signal derived from the mains electricity supply, can be used to provide a signal on line c. In this way it is possible to provide an Output that is strictly governed by the pump itself or, if such a signal cannot be used then a time dependent signal is available. The choice of which method is used is governed by the module 25A. in some cases As mentioned above, it is also necessary to replenish the developer on a regular time basis. The control signal for this replenishment may be by feeding a square wave having an amplitude equal to the aforesaid standard signal into the integrator on line F from a signal generator. The time dependent replenishment may be varied by altering the frequency of the square wave. It is advantageous if the operator of the processor can add replenisher material independently of either the image dependent or time dependent replenishment. This may be done by providing the module 25A with an additional counter which is manually operable. An alternative embodiment of the rep enishment control circuit 10 of Figure 1 is indicated in Figure 3. This embodiment is designed to work on TTL Transistor to Transistor Logic on which many laser exposure systems operate, and, therefore, no signal conditioner is required, such as that referenced 20 inFigure 2. As shown in Figure 3, digital write laser modulating pulses from the modulator 31 which is modulator 6 in Figure 1 are fed to a sampling circuit 32 which consists of a high frequency e.g. 10 M1 z pulse generator32aand an AND gate32b. The output, therefore, is in the form of bursts of pulses, the number of pulses in each burst being representative of the length of the corresponding digital pulse from the modulator 31. In this embodiment the output signal from the modulator 6 or 31 is tapped to provide the input signal, modulating the laser beam, which is integrated in accordance with the present invention. The bursts of pulses are fed to a 16 bit counter 33 which, when 65, 535 pulses have been received, resets to zero and outputs a pulse to a microprocessor 34 which contains, and is programmed to control, a laser on counter 34a i.e. a counter which in combination with the sampling circuit 32 and the counter 33 sums the periods during which the laser is exposing the light sensitive medium and whose total is, therefore, representative of the image area , a time base signal generator 34b, a replenishment dosc required counter 34c and a replenishment dose control counter 34d In Figure 3 the integration of the modulating signal is performed by, in combination the sampling circuit 32, the counter 33 and the laser on counter 34a. The pulses from the counter 33 are summed by the laser on counter 34a and when the count reaches a pre set figure, the counter 34a resets to zero and produces an output signal which increments the replenishment dose required counter 34c by one. This counter 34c also receives signals from the time base generator 345 and, therefore, its content is indicative of the replenishment required due to the active components of the developer being used up both by developing the image and by time and environmental degradation. The time base signal generator 34b provides an element of the total replenishment which is dependent only upon elapsed time. When the dose required counter 34c reaches a pre set total, it is reset to zero and cases under control of the microprocessor programme, a pre set counttobe loaded into the dose control counter 34d, A pump 35 for circulating the developer in the processor is started and, after a pre set delay, a replenishment pump 36 is switched on. A tachometer 37 associated with the pump 36 is used to decrement the dose control counter 34d by one for each one eighth revolution of the pump 36. When the dose control counter 34d reaches zero, the pump 36 is switched off any pump overun causing the dose control counter 34d to be decremented to a negative value Thus any extra replenisher material added will be allowed for when the dose level counter 34d is next loaded. Finally, the developer circulation pump 35 is switched off after a pre set delay which begins when the pump 36 is switched off. Clearly, the microprocessor programme can be altered to vary the preset counter levels and the delays to suit particular circumstance and laser exposure systems. Whilst the invention has been described in relation to lithographic plates, it is equally applicable to electrostatic copiers and films employing laser exposure.