# Fuel composition.

## Abstract
A fuel composition suitable for use in spark ignition engines, comprises a hydrocarbon fuel and a dialkyl carbonate having a boiling point of not more than 150 DEG C. Preferred dialkyl carbonates are dimethyl carbonate and diethyl carbonate. The hydrocarbon fuel may be a leaded or unleaded gasoline.

## Claims
Claims 1. A fuel composition suitable for use in internal combustion engines comprising a gasoline and a dialkyl carbonate having a boiling point of not more than 1500C. 2. A fuel composition as claimed in claim 1 characterised in that the alkyl groups are methyl, ethyl or isopropyl groups. 3. A fuel composition as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 characterised in that the alkyl groups are the same. 4. A fuel composition as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3 characterised in that the composition comprises 0.1 to 50 by volume of dialkyl carbonate. 5. A fuel composition as claimed in claim 4 characterised in that the composition comprises 5 to 25 by volume of dialkyl carbonate.

## Description
FUEL COMPOSITION This invention relates to a fuel composition suitable for use in spark ignition internal combustion engines. Certain oxygenated organic compounds have been known to be potentially suitable as fuels for internal combustion engines for many years. Interest in such components as fuels declined when crude oil became cheap and plentiful, but has revived in recent years. The most commonly proposed compounds are alcohols e.g. methanol, ethanol or tertiary butyl alcohol and ethers e.. methyl tertiary butyl ether. Oxygenated organic compounds can be used as fuels per se, but normally they are proposed for use in admixture with conventional hydrocarbon fuels, thereby avoiding the need for any major modification of engines using the fuels. For use in admixture with conventional fuels the oxygenated organic compounds should have a number of particular physical and chemical characteristics such as total miscibility, suitable volatility, and, preferably, low water solubility. One of the most important characteristics for spark ignition engine fuels, however, is the blending octane value, both in respect of the Research Octane Number RON and the Motor OctaneNumber MON . It is desirable that the oxygenated compounds used should have blending octane values that enhance rather than depress the Octane Numbers of the neat hydrocarbon fuel. According to the present invention a fuel composition suitable for use in internal combustion engines comprises a gasoline and a dialkyl carbonate having a boiling point of not more than 150 C. The alkyl groups may be the same or different and, to keep the boiling point at not more than 1500C, the alkyl groups may be methyl, ethyl or isopropyl. Preferably the dialkyl carbonate boils below 1300C. Preferred compounds are dimethyl carbonate which boils at 9lUC and diethyl carbonate which boils at 126 CC. The proportion of dialkyl carbonate may be from 0.1 to 50 by volume, preferably from 5 to 25 by volume of the fuel composition. Dialkyl carbonates may be produced by any of the known methods, such as for example by reacting an alkanol with carbon monoxide in the presence of a catalyst, e.g. palladium or platinum salts or a copper complex catalyst. It may thus be produced from relatively cheap and abundant reactants. Preferably the gasoline has, before the addition of the dialkyl carbonate, a RON of from 85 to 105, more preferably from 90 to 98 and a MON of from 75 to 95, more preferably from 80 to 88. The gasoline may contain the following proportions of olefins, aromatics and saturates Aroma tics 20 to 60 volume Saturates 20 to 65 Z volume Olefines O to 30 volume The fuel may contain a lead alkyl anti knock agent in an amount up to 0.45g Pb l, more preferably up to 0.15g Pb l. Other known fuel components may be included in the compositions e.g. a scavenger, other oxygenated compounds and anti icing or other known additives. The dialkyl carbonates have been tested in a range of gasolines, both aromatic and olefinic and both leaded and unleaded. Blending octane values for the dialkyl carbonates have been found to range from 106 to 112 RON and 96 to 106 MON, when added to gasoline at a concentration of 10 by volume. The invention is illustrated by the following examples Example 1 Dimethyl carbonate was admixed with two gasolines, one an aromatic basestock and the other an olefinic basestock. The aromatic basestock comprised 47.3 by volume aromatics and 52.7 by volume saturates. The olefinic basestock comprised 31.0 by volume aromatics, 53.8 by volume saturates and 15.2 by volume olefins. TheResearch and Motor Octane Numbers of the gasolines and the blends containing dimethyl carbonate were determined in a CFR engine.TheBlending Octane Values B.O.V. were also calculated from the measuredRONs and MONs of the gasolines and the dimethyl carbonate gasoline blends, using the formula BOV Blend Octane No Basestock Octane No x gasoline vol fraction volume fraction of the dialkyl carbonate where, the volume fraction percentage volume of the component 100 The dimethyl carbonate was a commercial material supplied by theAldrich Chemical Company. It had a boiling point of 91 C. Inspection data on the aromatic gasoline and the corresponding gasoline dimethyl carbonate blend are shown in Table 1. It will be seen that the addition of the dimethyl carbonate did not significantly affect the distillation characteristics. The water tolerance was assessed according to the test method IP 98 44 Tentative. The method measures the amount of water which can be added to a motor fuel, which may consist of a blend of hydrocarbons with a watersoluble constituent such as alcohol, without causing separation into two phases, at a specified temperature. The method comprises cooling a sample of the blend to about 40C and adding water until separation into two layers occurs. The sample is, then warmed until miscibility occurs and then cooled slowly. The temperature at which the first signs of cloudiness occurs is recorded. The test is repeated with different volumes of water and the water tolerance at specified temperatures obtained from a graph of volume of water against temperature of immiscibility. The results given in Table 1 show that the water tolerance of the dimethyl carbonate gasoline blend was satisfactory. Table l EMI4.1 tb SEP Gasoline tb SEP Gasoline SEP Dimethyl tb SEP aromatic SEP Carbonate tb SEP blend tb ASTM SEP Distillation SEP OC tb IBP SEP 37.0 SEP 37.0 tb 2 SEP vol. SEP recovered SEP at SEP 43.5 SEP 44.0 tb 5 SEP vol. SEP SEP SEP 48.5 SEP 48.5 tb 10 SEP vol. SEP SEP SEP 53.5 SEP 53.0 tb 20 SEP vol. SEP SEP SEP 62.0 SEP 60.0 tb 30 SEP vol. SEP SEP SEP 70.0 SEP 67.0 tb 40 SEP vol. SEP SEP SEP 80.0 SEP 75.0 tb 50 SEP vol. SEP SEP SEP 92.0 SEP 84.0 tb 60 SEP vol. SEP SEP SEP 106.0 SEP 95.0 tb 70 SEP vol. SEP SEP SEP 119.5 SEP 111.0 tb 80 SEP vol. SEP SEP SEP 131.5 SEP 127.5 tb 90 SEP vol. SEP SEP SEP 145.0 SEP 145.5 tb FBP SEP 168.0 SEP 166.0 tb Recovery SEP SEP SEP vol. SEP 97.0 SEP 98.0 tb Residue SEP SEP SEP 1.0 SEP 1.0 tb Loss SEP SEP SEP 2.0 SEP 1.0 tb Recovered SEP at SEP 70 C vol SEP 30.0 SEP 34.0 tb Recovered SEP at SEP 100 C SEP 56.0 SEP 63.5 tb Reid SEP Vapour SEP Press. SEP 7.5 SEP 7.8 tb lbs in2 SEP KNm 2 SEP 51.7 SEP 53.8 tb Water SEP tolerance SEP at tb 20 C SEP x SEP vol SEP 0.04 tb SEP 0 C SEP SEP 0.09 tb SEP 20 C SEP SEP 0.15 tb The CFR engine results on both gasolines are shown in Table 2 below Table 2EMI5.1 tb Blend SEP Composition SEP SEP vol. tb Gasoline SEP 1 SEP Aromatic SEP 100 SEP SEP SEP 90 SEP SEP SEP tb Gasoline SEP 2 SEP Olefinic SEP SEP SEP 100 SEP SEP SEP 90 tb Dimethyl SEP Carbonate SEP SEP SEP 10 SEP 10 tb CFR SEP Ratings tb RON SEP SEP clear SEP 93.7 SEP 92.7 SEP 95.2 SEP 94.5 tb MON SEP SEP clear SEP 84.0 SEP 83.0 SEP 85.5 SEP 84.5 tb Blending SEP Octane SEP Values tb RON SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 108.7 SEP 110.7 tb RON SEP SEP average SEP SEP SEP SEP 109.7 tb MON SEP SEP SEP 99.0 SEP 98.0 tb MON SEP SEP average SEP SEP SEP RTI ID 5.9 SEP 9.5 SEP tb Table 2 shows that the inclusion of 10 vol of dimethyl carbonate gives a significant increase in both the RON and the MON. This is because of intrinsically high RON and MON of the dimethyl carbonate itself. Example 2 10 by volume diethyl carbonate was admixed with a gasoline from an aromatic base stock comprising 40.2Z by volume aromatics and 59.8 by volume saturates. The diethyl carbonate was a commercial product supplied by Aldrich Chemical Company. The boiling point of the diethyl carbonate was 125 C. Inspection data on the gasoline and the gasoline diethyl carbonate blend are shown in Table 3. It will be seen that the addition of the diethyl carbonate did not significantly affect the distillation characteristics. The water tolerance at 200C, determined as described inExample 1, was 0.03 volume which is satisfactory. A test was carried out to simulate adverse tank storage conditions. 5 cm3 of mains tap water were added to 100 cm3 of the gasoline diethyl carbonate blend and the mixture was agitated for about 30 seconds. The mixture was allowed to stand for one week and a sample of the bottom layer, i.e. the water phase, was subjected to IR analysis to determine the amount of diethyl carbonate in this layer.The water phase contained less than 1 by volume of diethyl carbonate. The Blending Octane Values for the diethyl carbonate were calculated from the Research and Motor Octane Numbers determined in aCFR engine. The CFR engine results are given in Table 4. Table 3EMI6.1 tb SEP Gasoline SEP Gasoline tb SEP Dimethyl tb SEP Carbonate tb SEP blend tb ASTM SEP Distillation SEP C tb IBP SEP 45.0 SEP 44.0 tb 2X SEP recovered SEP at SEP 53.0 SEP 52.0 tb 5X SEP 59.0 SEP 59.0 tb 10 SEP SEP SEP SEP 64.0 SEP 66.0 tb 20 SEP 73.0 SEP 75.0 tb 30Z SEP SEP SEP SEP 82.0 SEP 84.0 tb 40 SEP 91.0 SEP 94.0 tb 50 SEP SEP SEP SEP 102.0 SEP 105.0 tb 60 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 113.0 SEP 114.0 tb 70 SEP SEP SEP 125.0 SEP 123.0 tb 80 SEP SEP SEP SEP 137.0 SEP 131.0 tb 90 SEP SEP SEP 151.0 SEP 145.0 tb FBP SEP 183.0 SEP 181.0 tb Recovery SEP SEP vol SEP 97.0 SEP 98.0 tb Residue SEP SEP SEP 1.0 SEP 1.0 tb Loss SEP SEP SEP 2.0 SEP 1.0 tb Recovered SEP at SEP 700CXvol SEP 16.5 SEP 14.5 tb Recovered SEP at SEP 100 C SEP SEP 47.5 SEP 45.5 tb Reid SEP Vapour SEP Press. SEP SEP 6.4 SEP 6.1 tb lbs in2 SEP KN m2 SEP 44 SEP 42 tb Table 4EMI7.1 tb Blend SEP Compositions SEP Xvol tb SEP Gasoline SEP aromatic SEP 100 SEP 90 tb SEP Diethyl SEP carbonate SEP SEP 10 tb CFR SEP Ratings tb SEP RON SEP 88.4 SEP 90.7 tb SEP MON SEP 80.3 SEP 81.9 tb Blending SEP Octane SEP Values tb SEP RON SEP SEP SEP 111.4 tb SEP MON SEP SEP SEP 96.3 tb Example 3 10 by volume of dimethyl carbonate was admixed with a gasoline containing 0.15g Pb l as Tetra ethyl lead. The dimethyl carbonate was the same as used in Example 1. The RON and MON of the gasoline and the blend were determined in a CFR engine and the Blending Octane Values calculated from the measured RONs and MONs. The results given in Table 5 show that the dialkyl carbonate is also useful in leaded gasoline. Table 5EMI7.2 tb SEP CFR SEP Ratings SEP Blending SEP Octane SEP Values tb SEP RON SEP MON SEP RON SEP MON tb Leaded SEP Gasoline SEP 95.2 SEP 86.0 SEP SEP tb Leaded SEP Gasoline tb dimethyl SEP carbonate SEP blend SEP 96.3 SEP 88.0 SEP 106.2 SEP 106 tb