# The use of peptides as medicaments.

## Abstract
The use is claimed of a peptide of formula I , or its salts, as an insulin releasing agent. His Ser Gln Gly Thr Phe Thr Ser Asp Tyr Ser Lys Tyr Len Asp Ser Arg Arg Ala Gln Asp R I where R is OH or a peptide chain of formula II or III or a chain or amino acid of formula II or III from which one or more amino acid s have been omitted . Phe Val Gln Trp Leu II Met Asn Thr III S Pref. I are identical with the sequence of a fragment of glucagon, e.g. glucagon 1 21 , 1 23 , 1 25 or 1 26 and des 22 26 glucagon. In tests, in vitro and in vivo, glucagon 1 21 , 1 26 and des 22 26 glucagon release insulin in hyperglycaemia but not in normoglycaemia or hypoglycaemia c.f. glucagon . Since it has no glycogenolytic or glyconeogenetic effects, glucagon 1 21 may be used in the treatment of diabetics with remaining beta all function. Other I are expected to behave similarly. I are known spasmolytics and gastric antisecretones. These properties may be of use in the treatment of type 2 diabetics.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. The use, as an insulin releasing agent, of compounds of the general formula I R R I wherein R represents His Ser Gln Gly Thr Phe Thr Ser Asp Tyr Ser Lys Tyr Leu Asp Ser Arg Arg Ala Gln Asp , and R represents hydroxy, the peptide chain Phe Val Gln Trp Leu or Met Asn Thr or a corresponding peptide chain or amino acid which is identical with one of the two last mentioned peptide chains with the exception that one or more of the amino acid s has have been omitted, or salts thereof. 2. The use, according to Claim 1, wherein the amino acid sequence in the compound of formula I is identical with the sequence in a fragment of glucagon. 3. The use, according to Claim 1, wherein R represents Phe, Val, Gln, Trp, Leu, Met, Asn or Thr. 4. The use, according to Claim 1, wherein R represents hydroxy, Phe Val Gln Trp Leu or Met Asn Thr. 5. The use, according to any of the Claims 1, 2, and 4 wherein R represents hydroxy. 6. The use, according to any of the preceding claims, characterized in that the compound of formula I is used for treatment of diabetics. 7. The use, according to Claim 6, characterized in that the compound of formula I is used for treatment of diabetics with remaining beta cell function. 8. The use, according to any of the preceding claims, characterized in that the compound of formula I is used in an effective amount. 9 A pharmaceutical composition which comprises an effective amount of a compound of formula I, according toClaim 1, or a salt thereof in association with a suitable physiologically acceptable carrier, diluent and or excipient when used as an insulin releasing medicament. 10. A pharmaceutical composition, according toClaim 9, characterized in that it comprises between 7.5 and i5,000 pg, preferably between 75 and 7500 pg, of a compound of formula I or a salt thereof per dosage unit. 11. A pharmaceutical composition, according toClaim 9 or 10, characterized in that it contains a compound of formula I, wherein the amino acid sequence is identical with the sequence in a fragment of glucagon. 12. A pharmaceutical composition, according toClaim 9 or 10, characterized in that it contains a compound of formula I, wherein R represents Phe, Val, Gln, Trp, Leu,Met, Asn or Thr. 13. A pharmaceutical composition, according toClaim 9 or 10, characterized in that it contains a compound of formula I, wherein R represents hydroxy, Phe Val GlnTrp Leu or Met Asn Thr. 14. A pharmaceutical composition, according toClaim 9, 10 or 13, characterized in that it contains a compound of formula I, wherein R is hydroxy. 15. The use of compounds of formula I stated inClaim 1, preferably the compounds used according to any of the Claims 2 to 5, or a salt thereof for the preparation of medicaments having an insulin releasing effect. 16. A compound of formula I stated in Claim 1, preferably the compounds used according to any of the Claims 2 to 5, for use as an insulin releasing agent. 17. An insulin releasing agent characterized in that it comprises a compound of formula I stated in Claim 1, preferably the compounds used according to any of the Claims 2 to 5. 18. The use of a compound of formula I stated inClaim 1, preferably the compounds used according to any of the Claims 2 to 5, for treating persons normally having too low a production of insulin. 19. The method for treating or preventing hyperglycaemia characterized by administering for insulin release purposes a compound of formula I stated in.Claim 1, preferably the compounds used according to any of the Claims 2 to 5.

## Description
Title The Use of Peptides as Medicaments. The present invention relates to the use of peptides of the general formula I R R I wherein R represents His Ser Gln Gly Thr Phe Thr Ser AspTyr Ser Lys Tyr Leu Asp Ser Arg Arg Ala Gln Asp , and R represents OH, the peptide chain Phe Val Gln Trp Leu or Met Asn Thr or a corresponding peptide chain or amino acid which is identical with one of the two last mentioned peptide chains with the exception that one or more of the amino acid s has have been omitted, or salts thereof as an insulin releasing agent. As examples of the above corresponding peptide chain or amino acid which is identical with one of the two last mentioned peptide chains with the exception that one or more of the amino acid s has have been omitted Val Trp and Met Asr1 can be mentioned. Glucagon, a polypeptide hormone consisting of 29 amino acids, is known to possess several pharmacological effects such as a spasmolytic effect on smooth muscle, an inhibitory effect on gastric acid secretion, and metabolic effects, for example, an insulin releasing effect. It is known that glucagon releases insulin from the isolated perfused rat pancreas. It has now been found that glucagon l 21 has no such effect when it is infused to the same concentration as glucagon, provided the buffer glucose concentration is 0.6 mg ml corresponding to hypo glycaemia. Furthermore, it has now been found that glucagon 1 21 contrary to glucagon does not cause hyperglycae mia or release insulin in vivo in normally fed rats.How ever, surprisingly, it has been found that glucagon l 21 possesses about 85 of glucagon s IRI immunoreactive insu lin releasing effect in the perfused rat pancreas model when the buffer glucose concentration is 2.0 mg ml corre sponding tjfihyperglycaemia, and about 60 of glucagon s IRI releasing effect when the buffer glucose concentration is 1.5 mg ml corresponding to mild hyperglycaemia. Studies in glucose primed rats and pigs have now shown that glucagon 1 21 infused intravenously improves the glucose tolerance, vide Experiments A to C below. As glucagon l 21 possesses glucagon s IRI releasing effect in the presence of hyperglycaemia yet at the same time being devoid of glucagon s glycogenolytic and glyconeogenetic effects, glucagon l 21 may be used in the treatment of diabetics with remaining beta cell function.Such a use should be especially safe as no hypoglycaemia will occur during treatment because of the lack of IRI releasing effect in the presence of hypoglycaemia and normoglycaemia. When glucagon l 21 is infused to rats and pigs with plasma glucose levels below 1.2 mg ml, glucagon l 21 will neither release IRI nor influence the plasma glucose levels, vide Experiment D below. In Diabetes 21 1972 , 843, it has been stated in the summary that the structure necessary for insulinogenic action is located inside the 24 29 amino acid sequence in glucagon. Contrary to this it has now, surprisingly, been found that the structure for insulinogenic action is in the 1 21 amino acid sequence, provided that hyperglycaemia is present. Furthermore, it has, surprisingly, been found that glucagon l 26 and des 22 26 glucagon possesses an insulin releasing effect in the perfused rat pancreas model when the buffer glucose concentration is 2.0 mg ml. It is to be expected that all compounds of formulaI have an insulin releasing effect at hyperglycaemia because glucagon, glucagon l 26 , des 22 26 glucagon, and glucagon 1 21 have this effect. However, contrary to glucagon l21 , glucagon also has an insulin releasing effect in the presence of normoglycaemia and hypoglycaemia. It has been stated in Danish patent applicationNo. 2885 81 that compounds of formula I possess spasmolytic effect and an inhibitory effect on gastric acid secretion.Furthermore, it is stated therein that compounds of formulaI show no or minor, negligible metabolic effects. The statement in said Danish application that glucagon l 21 does not release insulin from the isolated perfused rat pancreas, applies if the buffer glucose concentration is 1.0 mg ml corresponding to normoglycaemia or below that concentration.Based thereupon it is surprising that compounds of formula I have an insulin releasing effect on animals primed with glucose corresponding to hyperglycaemia. The metabolic effects of glucagon l 21 , glucagon 1 26 , and des 22 26 glucagon, as exemplified by their lipolytic effect on rat free fat cells in vitro and their effect on the activation of the adenylate cyclase in vitro, are negligible compared with the metabolic effects of glucagon. No metabolic effects have been found after administration to normally fasted and fed rats in vivo. Hence, compounds of formula I or salts thereof may be used as an insulin releasing agent. Compounds of formulaI or salts thereof are then useful for treatment of diabetics, for example, such with remaining beta cell function. The fact that compounds of formula I also show spasmolytic effect and an inhibitory effect on the secretion of gastric acid will not, in many, if not most instances, preclude the use of the compounds of formula I as an insulin releasing agent. On the contrary the combination of the effects may prove to be an advantage, for example, in type 2 diabetics. As examples of specific, known compounds of formula I glucagon l 21 , glucagon l 23 , glucagon l 25 , glucagon l 26 , and des 22 26 glucagon can be mentioned. The remaining compounds of formula I and salts thereof can be prepared by methods which, generally, are known in peptide synthesis and in this connection reference is, for example, made to Danish patent application No. 2885 81 HoppeSeyler s Z. Physiol.Chem. 362 1981 , 665 677 Methoden der Organischen Chemie Houben Weyl , Ed. Miller, Vol. XV 1 2, G. Thieme Verlag, Stuttgart, 1974 The Peptides, Ed. Gross and Meienhofer, Vol. 1 4, Academic Press, 1981 andAppl.Biochem.Biotech. 7 1982 , 385 et seq.. Compounds of formula I are converted into pharmaceutical preparations and administered, preferably to humans, in analogy with known methods. Compounds of formula I and salts thereof may be administered intraveneously, intramuscularly or subcutaneously at dosages in the range of from about 1 to 1000 llg kg body weight, preferably from about 10 to 100 llg kg body weight, although a lower or higher dosage may be administered. The required dosage will depend on the severity of the condition of the patient and the number of administrations per day. Furthermore, compounds of formula I and salts thereof may be administered by the nasal or rectal route. Compounds of formula I may possibly be administered orally, for example, by the use of special additives. For the purpose of parenteral administration, compounds of formula I may be dissolved in distilled water and the pH value is, if desired, adjusted with a suitable buffer so as to be in the range from about 6 to 8. Furthermore, the solution may be adjusted to isotonicity, for example, by the addition of about 0.9 sodium chloride. In order to facilitate the lyophilization process resulting in a suitable product, for example, lactose may be added to the solution. Thereafter, the solution may be sterile filtered and filled in vials. Thereafter, the solutions may be lyophilized and the vials may be sealed under aseptic conditions. Other pharmaceutical methods may be employed to control the duration of action. Controlled release preparations may be achieved by the use of polymers to complex or absorb compounds of formula I. The controlled delivery may be excercised by selecting appropriate macromolecules for example polyesters, polyamino acids, polyvinylpyrrolidone, ethylenevinylacetate, methylcellulose, carboxymethylcellulose, and protamine sulfat and the concentration of macromolecules as well as the methods of incorporation in order to control the drug release.Besides, it is possible to obtain a longer duration of action by parenteral administration of a suspension of the compounds in form of crystals or aggregates than by an aqueous solution because the compounds are continuously dissolving, a process which may be controlled by well known factors for example crystal form, type of aggregates, and surface area . Another possible method to control the duration of action by controlled release preparations is to incorporate compounds of formula I into particles of a polymeric material in form of matrix or bioerodable systems, for example, glucagon l21 in polyesters, polyamino acids, hydrogels, poly lactic acid or ethylene vinylacetate copolymer.Instead of incorporating the compounds in polymeric particles it is possible to entrap compounds of formula I in microcapsules prepared, for example, by coacervation techniques or by interfacial polymerisation, for example, hydroxyethylcellulose or gelatine microcapsules and poly methylmethacrylate microcapsules, respectively, or in colloidal drug delivery systems, for example, liposomes, albumin microspheres, microemulsions, nanoparticles, and nanocapsules or in macroemulsions. Another mechanism to achieve retarded preparations is through the use of biological acceptable oil solutions for example viscoleo and arachis oil where the release of drug is controlled by partitioning of drug out of the oil into the surrounding aqueous milieu. Besides it is possible to use an oil suspension which combines the principles involved in aqueous suspensions and oil solutions. For the purpose of nasal administration a solution in a nasal spraying device or nebulisator is used. The compounds of formula I are dissolved in distilled water and the pH value is adjusted so as to be in the range from about 6 to 8, for example, by adding sodium phosphate and citric acid as buffer. Sodium chloride, sorbitol and glycerol may be used to obtain an isotonic solution with a suitable viscosity. The solution may be administered by the use of a suitable nebulisator or plastic spray. The solution may be preserved by the use of known preservatives, for example, methyl or propyl p hydroxybenzoate. In order to promote the efficacy, a surfactant, for example, esters of polyoxyethylene, fatty acids or enamine derivatives, for example, N l methyl 2 ethoxycarbonylvinyl D phenylglycine, may serve as examples for adsorption accelerators.For the purpose of nasal administration by the use of dose aerosol spray a compound of formula I is mixed with suitable constituents and a mixture of halogencarbons, for example, monofluorotrichloromethane, difluorodichloromethane, and tetrafluorodichloroethane, in order to obtain a mixture with a vapour pressure producing a welL defined single dose when the mixture is administered by the use of a dose aerosol spray. By nasal administration the compounds of formula I are preferably used in a dosage range between about 0.1 and 100 RgZkg body weight, preferably between 1 and 10 pgJkg body weight, per single dose. This dose could be administered several times per day. For the purpose of rectal administration suppositories are produced by admixing a compound of formula I with an inactive constituent such as cocoa butter or with a base such as Polysorbate 85, propylene glycol monostearate and white bee s wax. Surfactants and or enamine derivatives may serve as examples of adsorption promotors. A preferred subclass of compounds of formula I is compounds wherein the amino acid sequence is identical with a continuous part of the amino acid sequence of glucagon. As examples of specific compounds of formula I compounds wherein R is Phe, Val, Gln, Trp, Leu, Met, Asn or Thr, can be mentioned. A preferred compound of formula I is glucagon l21 because it shows superior pharmacological properties and because it can easily be obtained, for example, from natural glucagon. As examples of salts of compounds of formula I sodium, potassium, magnesium, calcium, and zinc salts and acid addition salts with organic or inorganic acids such as formic acid can be mentioned. Preferred salts of compounds of formula I are physiologically and pharmaceutically acceptable salts. The present invention also relates to a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of formula I or a salt thereof and one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carrier s , diluent s , preferably water, and or exipient s when used as an insulin releasing medicament. As examples of such carriers conventional preservatives, for example, methyl or propyl p hydroxybenzoate, and sodium chloride can be mentioned. Any novel feature or combination of features described herein is considered essential. The three letter abbreviations for amino acids used herein are stated in J.Biol.Chem. 243 1968 , 3558. For the sake of brevity, glucagon l 21 heneicosapeptide herein has been designated glucagon l 21 and, analogously, this applies for glucagon l 23 , glucagon l 25 , and glucagon l26 . Furthermore, des pentapeptide 22 26 glucagon has been designated des 22 26 glucagon. The following example which, however, is not considered to be limiting, is presented to illustrate the invention.Example A preparation for parenteral administration containing 1 mg of glucagon l 2l per ml may be prepared as follows 1 g of glucagon l 21 and 99 g of lactose are dissolved in 1 litre of distilled water and the pH value is adjusted to 7.0. The solution is thereafter sterile filtered. The sterile solution is filled in 10 ml vials in such a way that each vial contains 1.0 ml of the solution.Thereafter, the solutions are lyophilized and the vials are sealed under aseptic conditions. The preparation in any of the vials is to be dissolved in 1.0 ml of sterile water before administration. Further examples of preparing preparations containing glucagon l 21 are stated in Danish patent application No. 2885 81. Preparations containing other compounds of formula I are prepared analogously.EXPERIMENT A Effect on IRI Release in Rats in vivo. 10 male rats, Wistar strain, 150 g 5 g were anaesthetized with Pentobarbital. Polyethylene catheters were inserted into the right carotid artery for blood sampling and the left jugular vein for infusions. The rats were divided into two groups with 5 animals in each group. One group was infused with glucose 1.5 mg min from 0 to 60 minutes placebo and one group was infused with glucose 1.5 mg min glucagon l 21 100 Fg kg h from 0 to 60 minutes. Blood was sampled into glasses on ice containing heparin 250IU ml and aprotinin 600 KIU ml at the times 0, 1, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, and 60 minutes. Insulin was determined by radioimmuno assay RIA on plasma. The results are stated in TableI below. Table IEMI8.1 tb SEP I SEP IRI, SEP pU ml. SEP tb Placebo SEP SEP 1 SEP 7 SEP 20 SEP 32 SEP 40 SEP 40 SEP 40 SEP 34 SEP 36 tb Glucason l 21 SEP 1 SEP 18 SEP 43 SEP 48 SEP 62 SEP 56 SEP 56 SEP 60 SEP 55 tb Time, SEP min SEP SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 10 SEP 20 SEP 30 SEP 40 SEP 50 SEP 60 tb EXPERIMENT 3 Effect on Plasma Glucose Levels in Rats in vivo.1. Intravenous Administration. Male Wistar rats were prepared as described inExperiment A. One group of 5 rats had an intravenous infusion of glucose 2 mg min from 0 to 30 minutes followed by infusion of 0.9 saline with 0.1 HSA human serum albumin .One group of 5 rats had an intraveneous infusion of glucose 2 mg min from 0 to 30 minutes followed by an infusion of 1 mg of glucagon l 21 in saline with HSA from 30 to 60 minutes. Blood samples were drawn from the carotid artery at the times 0, 2, 5, 10, 20, 25, 30, 40, 50, and 60 minutes and blood glucose values were determined by the hexokinase method on an autoanalyzer. The blood glucose values are stated inTable II below.Table IIEMI9.1 tb SEP Blood SEP glucose, SEP mg ml tb Placebo SEP 1 SEP 0.9 SEP 1.1 SEP 1.3 SEP 1.4 SEP 1.7 SEP 1.8 SEP 1.8 SEP 1.5 SEP 1.3 SEP 1.2 tb Glucagon l tb 1 21 SEP SEP 1.0 SEP 1.2 SEP 1.4 SEP 1.5 SEP 1.7 SEP 1.9 SEP 1.9 SEP 1.3 SEP 1.0 SEP 0.8 tb Time, SEP mini SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 10 SEP 20 SEP 25 SEP 30 SEP 40 SEP 50 SEP 60 tb 2. Peroral Administration of Glucose. The effect of glucagon l 21 was investigated in rats during an oral glucose tolerance test. 20 male Wistar rats were divided into 2 groups of 10 rats and dosed as follows Both groups were dosed with glucose 5 g kg, perorally at 0 and 60 minutes. The placebo group was dosed with 1 ml of 0.9 saline with 0.1 HSA intraperitoneally at the times 0, 30, 60, and 90 minutes. The other group was dosed with glucagon l 21 1 mg kg in 0.9 saline with HSA at the times 0, 30, 60, and 90 minutes. Blood samples were drawn from the tails at the times 5, 0, 15, 30, 45, 60, 90, and 120 minutes for blood glucose determination. The blood glucose values are stated in Table III below.Table IIIEMI10.1 tb SEP Blood SEP glucose, SEP mg ml SEP tb Placebo SEP 1 SEP SEP 0.88 SEP 0.98 SEP 1.60 SEP 1.52 SEP 1.46 SEP 1.45 SEP 1.60 SEP 1.54 tb Glucagon SEP I tb 1 21 SEP t SEP 0.89 SEP 0.96 SEP 1.32 SEP 1.35 SEP 1.23 SEP 1.36 SEP 1.37 SEP 1.37 tb Time, SEP min SEP SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 15 SEP 30 SEP 45 SEP 60 SEP 90 SEP 120 tb EXPERIMENT C Effect on Blood Glucose Levels in Pigs in vivo.1. Intravenous Administration. The effect of glucagon l 21 on plasma glucose levels was investigated during an intravenous glucose infusion. 4 female pigs Danish breed Yorkshire weighing 30 kg 3 kg were dosed with glucose 0.7 g kg h as an intravenous infusion and with the same glucose infusion infusion of glucagon l 21 100pg kg h from 0 to 120 minutes. The experiment was carried out as a cross over experiment. The pigs were infused through intravenous ear catheters and blood samples were taken from the other ear at the times 0, 15, 30, 45, 60, 75, 90, 105, and 120 minutes.Glucose was analyzed by the hexokinase method and the blood glucose values are stated in Table IV below. Table IVEMI11.1 tb SEP Plasma SEP glucose, SEP mg ml tb Placebo SEP 1.0 SEP 1.7 SEP 2.1 SEP 2.2 SEP 2.3 SEP 2.3 SEP 2.3 SEP 2.2 SEP 2.3 tb Glucagon SEP tb 1 21 SEP SEP I tb glucose SEP 1 SEP 0.9 SEP 1.5 SEP 1.7 SEP 1.8 SEP 1.9 SEP 1.8 SEP 2.0 SEP 1.9 SEP 1.9 tb Time, SEP min SEP I SEP 0 SEP 15 SEP 30 SEP 45 SEP 60 SEP 75 SEP 90 SEP 105 SEP 120 tb 2. Peroral Administration of Glucose. The effect of glucagon l 21 on plasma glucose levels was investigated during an oral glucose tolerance test in pigs. 4 pigs were dosed in a cross over experiment with glucose 5 g kg perorally at 0 and 60 minutes placebo saline with HSA or glucagon l 21 1 mg kg h fromO to 120 minutes intravenously. Blood samples were drawn from an ear vein at the times 5, 10, 20, 30, 45, 60, 75, 90, 105, and 120 minutes and plasma glucose was assayed by the hexokinase method. The plasma glucose values are stated in Table V below Table VEMI11.2 tb SEP I SEP Plasma SEP glucose, SEP mg ml. tb Placebo SEP 0.8 SEP 1.3 SEP . SEP 1.8 SEP 2.2 SEP 2.5 SEP 2.5 SEP 2.7 SEP 2.8 SEP 2.7 SEP 2.4 tb Glucagon SEP I tb 1 21 SEP 1 SEP 0.8 SEP 1.0 SEP 1.4 SEP 1.7 SEP 1.8 SEP 1.9 SEP 1.8 SEP 1.7 SEP 1.7 SEP 2.1 tb Time, SEP min SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 10 SEP 20 SEP SEP 30 SEP 45 SEP 60 SEP 75 SEP 90 SEP 105 SEP 120 tb EXPERIMENT D Studies of the Effect of Glucagon and Glucagon l 21 onPlasma Glucose and Plasma IRI Levels in Normoglycaemic Rats. Giucagon.. l mg kg and an equimolar dosis of gluca gon l 21 , i.e. 0.77 mg kg, were injected intravenously at the beginning time time 0 minutes to normally fed maleWistar rats weighing 150 g t 5 g . Blood samples were taken from the orbital plexus at the times, 5, 2, 5, 10, 15, 30, and 60 minutes. Blood glucose was assayed according to the hexokinase method and plasma insulin was assayed by RIA.Glucagon had a significantly increasing effect on blood glucose and plasma IRI. Contrary to glucagon, glucagon l 21 had no effect on these parameters. Mean blood glucose values N 10 are stated in Table VI below, and mean plasma IRI values N 10 are stated in Table VII below.Tabel VI EMI12.1 tb SEP Blood SEP glucose, SEP mg ml tb Glucagon SEP 1 SEP 0.9 SEP 1.2 SEP 1.3 SEP 1.3 SEP 1.4 SEP 1.5 SEP 1.1 SEP SEP experimental tb Placebo SEP 1 SEP 0.9 SEP 1.1 SEP 1.1 SEP 1.2 SEP 1.2 SEP 1.1 SEP 1.3 SEP l SEP SEP day SEP 1 tb Glucagon l 21 SEP I SEP SEP 1.0 SEP 1.1 SEP 1.1 SEP 1.2 SEP 1.3 SEP 1.3 SEP 1.3 SEP 1 SEP SEP experimental tb Placebo SEP 1 SEP SEP 1.0 SEP 1.2 SEP 1.2 SEP 1.3 SEP 1.3 SEP 1.3 SEP 1.3 SEP day SEP 2 tb Time, SEP min SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 10 SEP 15 SEP 30 SEP 60 SEP 1 tb Table VIIEMI12.2 tb SEP Plasma SEP IRI SEP pU ml SEP tb Glucagon SEP r SEP SEP 19 SEP 95 SEP 98 SEP 82 SEP 67 SEP 53 SEP 17 SEP experimental tb Placebo SEP 1 SEP 17 SEP 25 SEP 28 SEP 23 SEP 20 SEP 22 SEP 25 SEP 1 SEP day SEP 1 tb Glucagon 1 21 SEP 32 SEP 30 SEP 33 SEP 35 SEP 43 SEP 38 SEP 30 SEP 1 SEP SEP experimental tb Placebo SEP 13 SEP 20 SEP 20 SEP 22 SEP 24 SEP 22 SEP 16 SEP I SEP day SEP 2 tb Time, SEP min SEP l SEP SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 10 SEP 15 SEP 30 SEP 60 tb EXPERIMENT E Acute Toxicity Study 10 mg glucagon 1 21 administered intravenously as a bolus to NMRI mice weighing about 20 g i.e. a dose of about 500 mg kg body weight had no adverse effects. No deaths occurred.