# Liquid supply device for an endoscope.

## Abstract
A liquid supply device for an endoscope comprises a connecting member detachably connectable to a connector 11 of the endoscope, a liquid supply tube 28 connected at one end to the connecting member and located at the other end in a liquid supply tank 5 , and an air supply tube 27 connected at one end to the connecting member and at the other end to an air supply pump 4 , causing pressure in the liquid supply tank to be increased by air from the air supply pump to permit the liquid within the tank to be sent to the liquid supply tube. A valve mechanism is provided in the connecting member and adapted to, when the connecting member is connected to the connector, connect the liquid supply tube 28 to a liquid supply passage of the endoscope and the air supply tube 27 to the air supply passage of the endoscope, and adapted to, when the connecting member is removed from the connector, shut off communication between the air supply tube and the air supply passage and then between the liquid supply tube and the liquid supply passage.

## Claims
Claims 1. A liquid supply device for an endoscope which includes a connecting member 11 having a liquid supply passage 16 and an air supply passage 20 and is supplied with liquid through the liquid supply passage, comprising a liquid supply tank 5 for holding a liquid therein connecting means 30 detachably connectable to said connecting member 11 a liquid supply tube 28 connected at one end to the connecting means 30 and located at the other end in the liquid supply tank 5 air supply means 4 and an air supply tube 27 connected at one end to the connecting means and at the other end to the air supply means, causing pressure in the liquid supply tank to be increased by air from the air supply means to permit the liquid within the tank to be sent to the liquid supply tube characterized by comprising a valve mechanism 3t provided in the connecting means 30 and adapted to, when the connecting means 4 30 is connected to the connecting member 11 , connect the liquid supply tube 28 to the liquid supply passage 16 and the air supply tube 27 to the air supply passage 20 , and adapted to, when the connecting means 30 is removed from the connecting member 11 , shut off communication between the air supply tube 27 and the air supply passage 20 and then between the liquid supply tube 28 and the liquid supply passage 16 . 2. A liquid supply device according to claim 1, in which said valve mechanism 34 comprises an alr supply cap 30 connected to the other end of the air supply tube and connectable to the air supply passage a liquid supply cap 33 connected to the other end of the liquid supply tube, connectable to the liquid supply passage and movable relative to the air supply cap urging means 43 for urging the liquid supply cap in one direction toward the air supply cap closable means for permitting communication to be effected between the liquid supply tube and the outside when the liquid supply cap is moved by the urging means in said one direction, the liquid supply tube connected to the air supply passage through connection to the outside. 3. A liquid supply device according to claim 2, in which said liquid supply cap 33 is, after being connected to the connecting section of the endoscope, moved in the other direction against an urging force of said urging means. 4. A liquid supply device according to claim 3, in which said liquid supply tube 28 is provided in the air supply tube 27 and said liquid supply cap is provided in the air supply cap 30 such that it is coaxial with the liquid supply tube. 5. A liquid supply device according to claim 1, in which said valve mechanism 34 comprises an air supply cap 53 connected to the other end of the air supply tube and connectable to the air supply passage a liquid supply cap 51 connected to the other end of the liquid supply passage, connectable to the liquid passage and fix on the air supply cap communication means 54 provided in the air supply cap 53 or causing the air supply tube to normall communicate with the outside and means 60 selectively openable and closable to permit and shut off communication between the liquid supply cap 51 and the liquid supply tube 28 , whereby when the connecting means is connected to the connecting section of the endoscope the openable and closable means permits communication to be effected between the liquid supply tube and the liquid supply passage through the liquid supply cap. 6. A liquid supply device according to claim 5, in which said openable and closable means has a piston section disposed in the liquid supply cap and movable along the liquid supply cap to permit a selective opening and closing to be effected between the liquid supply cap and the liquid supply tube.

## Description
Liquid supply device for an endoscope This invention relates to a liquid supply device for an endoscope which is adopted to supply a liquid such as water or a liquid medicine to a liquid supply passage of the endoscope. An endoscope has a liquid supply passage therein and a liquid inlet provided in a connector connected to, for example, a forward end of a universal cord and a liquid outlet provided at a distal end of the endoscope.For example, a liquid medicine is supplied through the liquid supply passage into, for example, a body cavity of a human being to permit it to be applied to a region of Interest, or cleaning water is supplied through the liquid passage to permit the surface of an objective lens to be cleaned. As a liquid supply device of this type adapted to supply a liquid such as water or a liquid medicine, a device is knbwn in which the ends of an air supply tube and liquid supply tube are connected to a liquid supply tart1 the other end of the liquid supply tube is removably connected to a liquid Inlet of a connector through a connecting cap and in this con Iguration compressed air is supplied from the a r supply p.1Jm p throuah the air supply tube into the liquid supply tank, causing internal pressure in the liquid supply tank to be ncreased to permit the liquid to be supplied into a liquid supply passage o an endoscope through the liquid supply tube. When in this device the connecting cap for the liquid supply tube is removed from the connector of the endoscope upon completion of a liquid supply operation, the liquid in the liquid supply tank leaks out through the liquid supply tank, causing disadvantages such as the contamination of an endoscope inspection chamber, etc. It is accordingly the object of this invention to provide a liquid supply device adapted to prevent a liquid in a liquid supply tank from flowing out through a liquid supply tube, when the liquid supply tube is removed from the endoscope upon completion of a liquid supply operation. This invent ion can be more fully understood from the following detailed description when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which Fig. 1 is a perspective view generally showing a liquid supply device connected to an endoscope Fig. 2 is a schematic view generally showing the liquid supply device according to one embodiment of this invention Fig. 3 is a cross sectional view showing a state in which a part of the liquid supply device is opposed to a connecting section of the endoscope Fig. 4 is a cross sectional view taken along line 4 4 in Fig. 3, showing a part of the liquid supply device Fig. 5 is a view, similar to that of Fig. 3, showing a state in which the liquid supply device is connected to the connecting section g. 6 is a cross sectional view showing a liquid supply device according to another embodiment of this invention and g. 7 is a cross sectional view showing a state in which the liquid supply device is connected to the connecting section of the endoscope. The embodiments of this invention ill be explained below by referring to Figs. 1 to 5. Fig. 1 shows the state in which an endoscope 2 is connected to a liquid supply device body 1. The liquid supply device body 1 is formed integrally with, for example, a light source, and an air supply pump 4 Fig. 2 and light source lamp, not show, and so on are mounted within a case 3. A liquid supply tank 5 is detachably mounted by an attaching ring 6 on the outer side surface of the case 3. The endoscope 2 includes a control section 7 and an insertion section 8. An eyepiece section 9 is provided on the control section 7 to which a universal cord 10 is connected. A connector 11 is disposed on one end of the universal code 10 such that it is detachably connected to the liquid supply device 1. A distal end structure 12 is provided at the forward end of the insertion section 8.At the distal end structure are provided an illumination window 13 connected to an illumination optical system, an object lens 14 connected to an observation optical system, and a liquid outlet 15. As shown in Fig. 2 a liquid passage 16 is formed in the endoscope 2 and extends through the universal cord 10, operation section 7 and insertion section 8. The liquid passage 16 communicates at one end with a liquid inlet of the connector and at the other end with the liquid outlet 15. An openable valve 18 is disposed in the liquid passage of the control section 7 and is adapted to be externally operated by an operation button 19 Fig. 1 on the control section 7 such that it opens and closes the liquid passage. The ends of the liquid passage 16 and air supply passage 20 are formed in the connector 11.A connecting member 21 is projected on the outer side portion of the connector 11 and comprises a first, largediameter annular member 22 and a second, small diameter annular member 23 coaxial with the first annular member 22 with an annular gap defined therein, thereby providing a double tube structure. A connecting port 22a is projected on that outer perIpheral surface of the first annular member 22 which is located near the base end of the first annular member. One end of the air passage 20 is connected to the connecting port 22a and the second annular member 23 is connected to a liquid guide inlet 17 of the liquid passage 16 through a connecting port 23a which is provided on the base end of the second annular member 23. The liquid supply tank 5 has its upper open end covered by a cover 24 and is comprised of a sealed container 25 for holding water, a liquid medicine, etc., therein.The cover 24 is attached to the base end portion of a connecting tube 26. The connecting tube 26 is comprised of a largediameter air supply tube 27 and a small diameter liquid supply tube 28 within the large diameter air supply tube 27, providing a double tube structure. The basic ends of the air supply tube 27 and liquid supply tube 28 extend through the cover 24 into the sealed container 25 such that, as shown in Fig. 2, the open end of the air supply pipe 27 is located in a higher position than that of the open end of the liquid supply tube 28. A cylindrical cap 29 is fitted over the forward end portion of the connecting tube 26. An air supply cap 30 is threadably inserted into the cylindrical cap 29 as shown in Fig. 3 and can be inserted into the first annular member 22 of the connecting member 21. The cap 30 takes the form of a bottomed cylinder and has its open end secured to the other end of the air supply tube 27. A circular opening 31 is formed in a base 30a of the air supply cap 30 and a cylinder section 32 is formed in communication with the opening 31 to provide a closable valve mechanism 34 together with a liquid supply cap 33 as will be described later. An O ring 35 is located in an inner, recessed portion of the bottom 30a of the cap 30 and C and an O rings 36 and 37 are fitted In the annular recessed portions of the outer periphery of the cap 30. Stated in more detail, the C ring 36 is forced into the annular recessed portion of the outer periphery of the cap 30 and an outer periphery part of the C ring 36 is somewhat projected from the outer periphery of the cap 30.A ring like projection 38 is formed on the outer portion of the bottom 30a of the cap 30 such that it is coaxial with the circular opening 31, and has a plurality of through holes 39 4 in this embodiment as shown in Fig. 4 which extend at predetermined intervals from the inner surface of the cap 30 toward the outer periphery of the cap 30. The liquid supply cap 33 is cylindrical in configuration and inserted into the opening 31 of the cap 30 with a predetermined gap therebetween so that it can be moved back and forth relative to the cap 30. The cap 33 has a connecting section 40 which is projected forward of the cap 30 and adapted to receive the second annular member 23 of the connecting member 21. The other end of the liquid supply tube 28 is fitted over the base end of the cap 33.An outwardly extending flange like piston section 41 is disposed at the intermediate portion of the cap 33 and adapted to be moved in the cylinder section 32 of the cap 30 such that it can be moved back and forth. The interior of the cylinder section 32 on the side of the air supply tube 27 communicates with the interior of the cylinder section 32 on the side of the bottom 30a through a plurality of communication holes 42 extending through the piston section 41. . compression coil spring 43 is held within the portion of the cylinder section 32 which is located on the side of the air supply tube 27, and adapted to forwardly urge the piston section 41.In the nonuse state in which the connecting portion 40 of the cap 33 is not engaged with the second annular member 23, the cap 33 is held, by the compression coil spring 43, urged against the inner surface of the bottom 30a of the cap 30. Reference numeral 44 shows an O ring fitted in the recessed portion of the outer periphery of the second annular member 2 in the connecting member 21. The operation of â liquid supply device so constructed will be explained below. As shown in Fig. 1, the connector 11 of the endoscope 1 is connected to the liquid supply device body 1 and the cap 29 for the connecting tube 26 is connected to the connecting tube 21 of the connector 11.When the connector 11 of the endoscope 2 is connected to the liquid supply device body 1, the air supply passage 20 of the connector 11 is connected to the air supply pump.4. When the cap 29 is to be connected to the connecting member 21, the second annular member 23 is initially engaged with the cap 33. When in this state the cap 30 is further pushed in, a stepped section of the connecting portion 40 of the cap 33 abuts against the end face of the second annular member 23 so that the cap 33 is held by the second annular member 23 in the engaged position. With the cap 30 further pushed in, the piston section 41 within the cylinder section 32 is moved against the compression coil spring 43 away from the bottom 30a of the cap 30. That is, the air supply cap 30 is moved forward relative to the liquid supply cap 33.When the cap 30 is moved to a normal insertion position within the first annular member 22, the C ring 36 is latched by a latching portion 22b which is formed by an annular rib projected from the forward inner end portion of the annular member 22 so that the cap 30 is connected to the annular member 22. As a result, the interior of the cylinder section 32 on the side of the bottom 30a communicates with the interior of the cylinder section 32 on the side of the air supply tube 27 through the communication hole 42, and the air supply tube 27 communicates with the air supply passage 20 of the connector 11 through the interior of the cylinder section 32, the gap between the opening 31 of the cap 30 and the cap 33, the communication hole 39 of the projection 38 and the interior of the first annular member 22. Twe liquid supply tube 28 corrjnunicates with the liquid supply passage 16 of the connector 11 through the cap 33 and the interior of the second annular member 23. As compressed air sent from the air supply pump 4 is introduced through the air supply passage 20 of the connector 11 and the air supply tube 27 of the connecting tube 26 into the sealed container 25 of the liquid supply tank 5, the internal pressure of the sealed container 25 is increased to permit the liquid in the sealed container 25 to be supplied into the liquid supply passage 16 of the endoscope 2. When the cap 29 of the connecting tube 26 is removed from the connector 11 of the endoscope 2 after completion of a liquid supply operation, the liquid supply cap 33 is pushed forward by a spring force of the compression coil spring 43, causing the piston section 41 within the cylinder of the cap 30 to be urged against the O ring 35 on the bottom 30a of the cap 30 as shown in Fig. 3, thus shutting off communication between the opening 31 in the bottom 30a and the communication holes 42 by the O ring 35 and piston section 41. Since an air supply from the air supply tube 27 into the sealed container 25 is stopped, the internal pressure of the sealed container 25 is not increased. Consequently, the liquid in the sealed container 25 is not supplied into the liquid supply tube 28, thus preventing the liquid within the tank 5 from flowing out through the liquid supply tube 28 on the basis of a siphon principle as encountered in the convention liquid supply device. By merely removing the cap 29 for the connecting tube 26 away from the connecting member 21 for the connector 11, a liquid leakage from the cap 33 can be prevented, thus assuring an easy, error free operation. Another embodiment of this invention will be explained by referring to Figs. 6 and 7. A closable valve mechanism 52 is disposed within a liquid supply cap 51 and the opening and closing of a liquid supply tube 28 are achieved by the valve mecha nism 52. The liquid supply cap 51 is formed integral with, and coaxial with, a large diameter air supply cap 53. A plurality of communication holes 54 are provided in the end wall of the cap 53 along the axial direction of the cap 53 to permit communication between the interior of the cap 53 and the outside. An 0 andC ring 55 and 56 are fitted in the recessed portions of the outer periphery of the cap 53. The liquid supply cap 51 is comprised of a large diameter section 57 located in the intermediate position and acting as an end wall of the cap 53, a small diameter, first connecting section 58 extending outwardly from the end wall of the cap 53, and a small diameter, second connecting section 59 extending in the cap 53.A communication hole defined by the large diameter section 57 is smaller in diameter than the communication holes defined by the connecting sections 58 and 59. A cylindrical movable member 60 with a bottom is air tightly inserted into the large diameter section 57 of the cap 51 and adapted to be moved back and forth along the axial direction of the cap 53. The movable member 60 has a flange equipped piston section 61 located in the open end portion of the first connecting portion 58 and a large diameter latching portion 62 adapted to be engaged with the bottom of the second connecting section 59. A plurality of communication holes 63 are formed in that portion of the peripheral wall of the movable member 60 which is located close to the latching section 62.Within the first connecting section 58 of the cap 51 a compression coil spring 64 is located between the piston section 61 and the end of the large diameter section 57. In the nonuse state in which the first connecting section 58 of the cap 51 is not engaged with the second annular member 23 of the connector 11, the movable member 60 is urged by the compression coil spring 64 to the left in Fig. 6, causing the latching member 62 to abut against the corresponding end of the large diameter section 57 of the liquid supply cap 51. In this state, the movable member is held such that the respective communication holes 63 are blocked by the inner surface of the largediameter section 57.When the connecting portion 58 of the liquid supply cap 51 is engaged with the second annular member 23 of the connector 11, the movable member 60 is pushed to the right by the second annular member 23, as shown in Fig. 7, against an urging force of the compression coil spring 64, causing the communication holes 63 of the movable member to be exposed on the side of the second connecting section 59 to permit communication to be effected between the liquid supply tube 28 and the second annular member 23 through the movable member 60. When a cap 29 of a connecting tube 26 is connected to the connecting member 21 of the connector 11 as shown in Fig. 7, the air supply passage 20 of the connector 11 communicates with the air supply tube 27, causing the interior of the air supply tank 75 to be compressed to send out the liquid in the liquid supply tank 5 through the liquId supply tube 28. As in this state the movable member 60 is pushed in by the second annular member 23 to expose the communication holes on the side of the second connecting section 59, the liquid sent through the liquid supply tube 28 can be supplied into the liquid supply passage 16 of the endoscope 2 through the communication holes 63 of the movable member 60.When the cap 29 for the connecting tube 26 is removed from the connecting member 21 of the connector 11, the movable member 60 is moved by the compression coil spring 64 back to the original position, blocking up the communication holes 63 of the movable member 60 by the inner surface of the large diameter section 57 and thus immediately stopping a liquid supply from the liquid supply cap 51. When the cap 29 for the connecting tube 26 is detached from the connector 11 of the endoscope 2, the liquid cap 51 can be directly blocked up. Even in this case, the liquid in the liquid supply tank 5 can be positively prevented from flowing out through the liquid supply tube 28 because of the siphon principle. Although this invention has been explained in connection with the above mentioned embodiments, it is not restricted to the above mentioned embodiments. For example, an arrangement for connecting the cap 29 for the connecting tube 26 to the connecting member 21 for the connector 11 may be properly modified. By removing the cap 29 for the connecting tube 26 from the connecting member 21 of the connector 11 the air supply tube 27 and liquid supply tube 28 may be blocked. This invention can be reduced to practice without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention. According to this invention, a valve mechanism is provided in the connecting tube means and, when the connecting means is connected to the connecting section of the endoscope, adapted to permit communication to be effected between the liquid supply tube and the liquid supply passage, and adapted to connect the air supply tube to the air supply passage and, when the connecting means is removed from the connecting section, to shut off communication between the air supply tube and the air supply passage and then shut off communication between the liquid supply tube and the liquid supply passage. When the liquid supply tube is removed from the endoscope, the liquid within the liquid supply tank can be prevented from flowing out through the liquid supply tube on the basis of the sishon principle.