# Composition of PPE and PS grafted EPDM and plasticizer.

## Abstract
An improved thermoplastic composition comprising an admixture of polyphenylene ether resin, an alkenyl aromatic resin which is modified with a rubbery interpolymer of ethylene, an alpha olefin and polyene for example, EPDM modified polystyrene , a plasticizer and optionally a polystyrene homopolymer, is described.

## Claims
ClAIMS 1. A thermoplastic composition comprising an admixture of a from 70 to 99 percent by weight of polyphenylene ether resin b from 1 to 25 percent by weight of an alkenyl aromatic resin which has been modified with a rubbery interpolymer of ethylene, alpha olefin and polyene c from 0 to 20 percent by weight of polystyrene homopolymer and td from 1 to 35 percent by weight of a plasticizer. 2. A composition according to Claim 1, in which the rubbery portion of the interpolymer modified alkenyl aromatic resin comprises from 8 to 70 percent by weight of said resin. 3. A composition according to Claim 1, in which the alkenyl aromatic resin is polystyrene. 4. A composition according to Claim 1, in which the polyphenylene ether resin is poly 2,6 dimethyl l,4 phenylene ether . 5. The composition of Claim 1, wherein the polyene of the interpolymer comprises cyclopentadiene or ethylidene norbornene. 6. The composition of Claim 1, wherein the interpolymer comprises from about 10 to 90t ethylene, about 10 to 90 alpha olef in and about 0.1 to 10 polyene by mole. 7. A composition according to Claim 1, in which the plasticizer is a triaryl phosphate. 8. A composition according to Claim 7, in which the triaryl phosphate is triphenyl phosphate. 9. A composition according to Claim 8, in which the triphenyl phosphate has been substituted with one or more isopropyl groups. 10. A composition according to Claim 1, which includes a polystyrene homopolymer. 11. The composition of Claim 1, wherein the plasticizer comprises less than about 61 by resin weight. 12. The composition of Claim 1, wherein the plasticizer comprises from 1 to 4 by resin weight. 13. The composition of Claim 1, wherein the plasticizer comprises from about 7 to 35 by resin weight. 14. A composition according to Claim 1, contain from 0.5 to 3 percent by weight of a polyolefin. 15. A composition according to Claim 14, in which the polyolefin is polyethylene.

## Description
COMPOSITION OF PPE AND PS GRAFTED EPDM AND PLASTICIZER Background of the Invention Thermoplastic compositions containing polyphenylene ether or oxide in admixture with alkenyl aromatic resins are well known. Examples are, for example, described in D.S. Patent No. 3,383,435 ofEric P. Cizek, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. Such compositions are most generally employed in the production of molded and or extruded articles. Polyphenylene ethers are known and described in numerous publications including U.S. Patent Nos. 3,306,874 and 3,306,875 of Allan S. Hay and U.S. Patent Nos. 3,257,357 and 3,257,358 of Gelu Stoeff Stamatofef. The high molecular weight polymers are high performance engineering thermoplastics possessing relatively highMelt viscosities and softening points i.e., in excess of 275 C. and are useful for many commercial applications requiring high temperature resistance including formation of film, fiber and molded articles. For many uses, the high performance properties are not necessary and the relatively high melt viscosities and softening points are a disadvantage. For evsple, film and fiber can only be formed on a commercial scale from solution selt processing being commercially un attractive because of the required high temperatures needed to soften the polymer and the problems associated therewith such as instability, discoloration and the requirement for specially designed process equiplent to operate at eLevated temperatures. Molded articles can be formed by melt processing techniques, but again, the high temperatures required are undesirable. Because of low cost and an overall combination of fair to good properties, alkenyl aromatic resins such as polystyrene have found wide and diversified commercial acceptance. However, such resins are usually brittle, possess a relatively low heat distortion temperature and have relatively poor resistance to the more common organic solvents. It is known in the art that various of these properties of alkenyl aromatics may be improved by copolymerizing with other monomers or by blending with other resins. As is also described in the Cizek patent, modifiers such as butadiene may be incorporated into the alkenyl aromatic resins to improve the properties of resultant compositions. Such modified resins provide means for overcoming various physical drawbacks of alkenyl aromatic resins, particularly polystyrene, while simultaneously facilitating the processing of polyphenylene ethers. Other such modifiers are also known. In, for example, U.S. Patent No. 3,658,945 of Nakashio et al., it is disclosed that alkenyl aromatic resins may be graft modified onto ethylene olefin polyene terpolymer. They disclose that 0.5 to 159 of terpolymer by total composition weight, where the graft copolymer contains from 5 to 808 of styrene compound, is needed to enhance impact strength at levels up to about 30 of styrene EPDM graft copolymer by total composition weight. Such graft copolymers are also described in U.s. Patent Nos. 3,943,191 3,959,211 3,974,235 4,101,503 4,101,504 4,101,505 and 4,102,850 ofGlenn D. Cooper et al. and elsewhere. Compositions with a high polyphenylene ether content are particularly useful in applications requiring a high heat distortion temperature. Compositions in which the polyphenylene ether makes up more than about 75 of the total weight of resins, e.g., polyphenylene ether, styrene homopolymer or copolymer if present, etc., have high heat distortion temperatures and good physical properties, but tend to laminate that is, they tend to form a layered structure upon molding. Lamination is undesirable because it may result in separation of the layers, impairing the integrity of the molded article, or in the appearance of unsightly blisters on the article surface. Incorporation of small amounts of polyethylene or other polyolefins as a processing aid in the compositions increases the tendency toward lamination.Improved compositions of this type therefore remain highly desirable. Introduction to the Invention The present invention relates to improved thermoplastic compositions comprising an admixture of polyphenylene ether and alkenyl aromatic resin. The compositions also contain up to about 35 by resin weight of plasticizer. The plasticizer alleviates drawbacks of lamination of the molded compositions. Description of the Invention The polyphenylene oxide resins useful in accordance with the present kinds of compositions are, as previously indicated, individually well known and readily available. There are, however, various preferred composition components. These are primarily ones commonly having applications for which high impact strength is particularly desirable. The preferred polyphenylene ethers are homoand copolymers of the formula EMI5.1 wherein Q, Q , Q and Q are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, hydrocarbon radicals, halohydrocarbon radicals having at least two carbon atoms between the halogen atom and the phenol nucleus, hydrocarbonoxy radicals and halohydrocarbonoxy radicals having at least two carbon atoms between the halogen atoms and the phenol nucleus, and Q , 0 and 0 in addition may be halogen with the proviso that 9 and 0 are preferably free of a tertiary carbon atom and n represents the total number of monomer residues and is an integer of at least 50. Especially preferred is poly 2,6 dimethyl l, 4 phenylene ether. The alkenyl aromatic resins and or grafted portions thereof are likewise well known and are preferably derived from monomers of the formula EMI6.1 wherein R1 and R2 are selected from the group consisting of lower alkyl or alkenyl groups of from 1 to 6 carbon atoms and hydrogen. R3 and R4 are selected from the group consisting of chloro, bromo, hydrogen and lower alkyl of from 1 to 6 carbon atoms R5 and R6 are selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and lower alkyl and alkenyl groups of from 1 to 6 carbon atoms or R5 and R6 may be concatenated together with hydrocarbyl groups to form a naphthyl group. Specific examples of alkenyl aromatic monomers include styrene, chlorostyrene, alpha methylstyrene, paramethylstyrene, vinyl xylene, divinylbenzene and vinyl naphthalene. Styrene is particularly preferred. The rubbery interpolymers utilized in forma tion of the present grafted copolymers are formed from ethylene, alpha olefin and polyene monomers. Preferred alpha olefins have from 3 to 10 carbon atoms Preferred polyenes are non conjugated either cyclic or open chain dienes. They desirably have 5 to 20 carbon atoms. These interpolymers are desirably composed of from 10 to 90 mole percent ethylene, 10 to 90 mole percent alpha olefin and 0.1 to 10 mole percent polyene. Alkenyl aromatic resin may be grafted onto such an interpolymer by polymerizing alkenyl aromatic monomer in its presence. This may be accomplished by dissolving the interpolymer in monomer and then polymerizing the mixture in the presence of an initiator. The interpolymer may be polymerized with the alkenyl aromatic compound in virtually any proportion, to produce an interpolymer modified alkenyl aromatic compound. Preferably, the interpolymer comprises from about 8 to 70 , most preferably 10 50 of the total weight of the product, which consists of a gel portion of an interpolymer alkenyl aromatic graft copolymer particles of interpolymer alkenyl aromatic graft copolymer containing occluded alkenyl aromatic , along with soluble alkenyl aromatic homopolymer. The interpolymer modified alkenyl aromatic resin may be used without further treatment if a higher proportion of interpolymer is desired,the gel fraction of interpolymeralkenyl aromatic graft copolymer may be separated from the soluble alkenyl aromatic homopolymer by extraction of the homopolymer in a suitable solvent, such as, for example, methyl ethyl ketone. In forming the present compositions, the proportions of resins may vary within the described ranges. The polyphenylene ether makes up from 70 to 99b of the total weight of resins, the EPDM styrene graft copolymer from 1 to 25 , and the polystyrene homopolymer from 0 to about 209. In accordance with the present invention, a plasticizer is also incorporated into the composition.Representative of such plasticizers are aromatic and alkylaromatic phosphates, phthalates, long chain aliphatic hydrocarbons, e.g., mineral oil and, prefer ably, isopropylated triphenyl phosphate and or triphenyl phosphate KronitexS FXC . 5 Up to about 35t by resin weight of plasticizer has been found to be desirable. This amount of plasticizer will mitigate or eliminate the occurrence of lamination in molded articles formed from the present compositions. Such lamination is undesirable because it may affect the physical integrity of the article and or be evidenced by blisters on the article surface. In addition, certain plasticizers may improve ancillary properties such as surface gloss, flame resistance, melt viscosity and the like. Within the foregoing range, compositions contain ing from less than about 69, more desirably about 1 to 4t, by resin weight of plasticizer have been discovered to exhibit significantly reduced lamination. Moreover, because increasing concentrations of plasticizer generally impair such important properties as heat distortion temperature, these lower concentrations are often preferred. In general, addition of polystyrene to polyphenylene ether blends causes a decrease in the heat distortion b3were ture of the compositions. Moreover, in blends containing a high proportion of polyphenylene ether, the tendency to lamination increases as the proportion of EPDM rubber is increased. Surprisingly, however, in the plasticized compositions of the present invention, and especially those containing from about 7 to about 358 by weight of plasticizer, increasing the proportion of EPDM polystyrene graft copolymer does not significantly affect either the heat distortion temperature or the tendency to lamination. Consequently, the amount of EPDM polystyrene graft copolymer can be adjusted to whatever level is required to reach the desired ductility and impact strength without adversely affecting other properties. The compositions made according to the teachings of the present invention are preferably prepared first by fine admixture of their ingredients. This may, for example, be accomplished simply by coextrusion. A substantially homogeneous admixture is preferred. Once prepared, the present compositions may be utilized for any of the diverse purposes for which similar polyphenylene ether polyalkenyl aromatic resin compositions have already been employed. For example, they can be used in molding powder formulations, either alone or mixed with other polymers and may contain various fillers, such as wood flour, diatomaceous earth, carbon black, silica, etc. They are ordinarily used to prepare molded by injection or compression or extruded articles. These articles may take a broad spectrum of forms including sheets, rods, etc. The present compositions may also be mixed with various fillers, modifying agents, etc. such as dyes, pigments, stabilizers, etc. All this may be performed in a conventional manner. The following examples are given by way of illustration only and are not intended as a limitation on the scope of this invention. Many variations are possible without departing from its spirit and scope.Unless otherwise specified herein, all proportions are provided on a weight basis. EXAMPLE 1 Polystyrene made with 15 by weight of ethylene propylene 5 ethylidene 2 norbornene interpolymer Epcar 387 EPDM rubber produced by Goodrich by the procedure described in U.S. Patent No. 4,101,503 is stirred for several hours in methyl ethyl ketone and the suspension centrifuged for several hours in a bottle centrifuge. The polystyrene solution is decanted and the gel resuspended and stirred for several hours in methyl ethyl ketone and again centrifuged and decanted. This process is repeated again and the gel fraction is shaken with methanol, filtered, washed repeatedly with methanol, and dried to yield a polystyrene interpolymer in the form of small particles of gel containing approximately equal weights of rubber and grafted and occluded polystyrene. A mixture consisting of 3.33 parts of the gel fraction, 10 parts of the interpolymer modiifed polystyrene, and 86.67 parts of polyphenylene ether is extruded in a Brabender single screw extruder and then molded in a screw injection molding machine to produce a control composition containing 3.2t rubber. A second blend is prepared in the same way, with the addition of 3 parts of triphenyl phosphate plasticizer. I The tendency to lamination is judgedby making parallel cuts, about 3 89 apart, at the gate end of a 2 l 2 X 3 l 2 X 1 8 plague, then grasping the tab with pliers and, by simultaneously twisting and pulling, breaking it from the plaque. The exposed surfaces are examined and the degree of lamination estimated, both in the interior portion of the plaque core and in the surface layers skin . The process is then repeated at the dead end of the plague, opposite the gate.1Severe lamination indicates actual separation of the material into a number of thin sheets under the conditions of the test. Moderate lamination indicates distinct layering in the structure, but with little or no actual physical separation of the layers. The results are summarized below. TABLE 4 Control Plasticizer ContainingProperty Sample SampleElongation 56 56Tensile Yield psi 9,900 10,200Tensile Strength psi 9,400 9.300Izod Impact ft.lbs.in. of notch 5.2 4.8Gardner Impact in.Ibs. 375 325Gloss 45 52 57HDT F 345 324H.V. poise,580 F. 1500 seec 5,000 3,700UL 94 V OAverage Burn Time seconds 4.2Lamination gate end, skin moderate noneLamination gate end, core severe slight or noneLamination dead end, skin moderate noneLamination dead end, core none none The results show the reduction in lamination achieved at even a very minor concentration of plasticizer for compositions of the present invention. EXAMPLES 2 7 Six sample compositions are prepared as described in Example 1, using 80 parts of polyphenylene ether, 20 parts of interpolymer modified polystyrene described in Example 1, and various plasticizers and amounts as noted below. The results are summarized below. TABLE 1 EMI14.1 Lamination tb Notched SEP Gate SEP End SEP Dead SEP End tb Tensile tb Example SEP Elongation SEP Yield SEP Izod SEP Gardner SEP Gloss SEP HDT SEP Skin SEP Core SEP Skin SEP Core tb 2 SEP 47 SEP 10,800 SEP 4.1 SEP 225 SEP 53 SEP 333 SEP moderate SEP slight SEP slight SEP none tb 3 3 TPP SEP 33 SEP 11,000 SEP 4.5 SEP 350 SEP 55 SEP 306 SEP slight SEP none SEP none SEP none tb 4 3 K 50 SEP 41 SEP 11,000 SEP 4.2 SEP 275 SEP 55 SEP 307 SEP slight SEP none SEP none SEP none tb 5 5 TPP SEP 46 SEP 10,800 SEP 4.3 SEP 300 SEP 59 SEP 291 SEP slight SEP none SEP none SEP none tb or tb none tb 6 SEP 1 TPP SEP 44 SEP 11,000 SEP 4.0 SEP 300 SEP 55 SEP 310 SEP slight SEP none SEP none SEP none tb or tb none tb 7 3 DOP SEP 41 SEP 11,000 SEP 4.1 SEP 275 SEP 56 SEP 306 SEP slight SEP none SEP none SEP none tb K 50 Kronitex 50 plasticizer produced by FMC mixture of isopropylated triphenyl phosphates TPP triphenyl phosphate plasticizer Gardner Gardner impact strength, in.lbs.DOP dioctyl phthalate plasticizerElongation Tensile yield psi Gloss surface gloss at 45 Izod notched Izod impact strength, HDT heat distortion temperature, ft.lbs. in. of notch F. These results indicate the substantial improvement in lamination achieved at low plasticizer content. As little as 1 of plasticizer is effective, as shown. EXAMPLE 8 Blends were extruded and molded as described in Example 1. Compositions were the same as in Example 1 except for the addition in each case of 1.5per of polyethylene. The blend containing triphenyl phosphate had physical properties similar to those of the control blend, except for reduced HDT, improved gloss, ductility and tensile strength, and reduced tendency to lamination.Property Control Blend Example 8Elongation 77 90T.Y. 10,200 11,400Izod Impact Strength 6.2 5.5Gardner Impact Strength 90 400HDT 343 326Gloss 41.0 51.4Lamination, gate end skin severe slightLamination, gate end core severe moderateLamination, dead end skin slight noneLamination, dead end core severe slight EXAMPLE 9 A mixture of 96 parts of PPO and 4 parts of theEPDM polystyrene graft copolymer described in Example 1 50 EPDM, 50 polystyrene and 3 parts of triphenyl phosphate was extruded and molded as described in Example 1.A control blend was prepared in the same way, but without the triphenyl phosphate. The blend containing triphenyl phosphate had properties similar to the control blend, with less tendency to laminate. It had V 0 flammability rating by UL 94 the control was V l.Property Control Blend Example 9Elonation 43 57T.Y. 10,600 11,800Izod Impact Strength 3.8 4.6Gardner Impact Strength 400 400HDT 362 341Gloss 55.2 56.4 UL 94 V l 10.6 sec. V Q 3.9 sec Lamination, gate end skin severe moderateLamination, gate end core severe moderateLamination, dead end skin moderate slightLamination, dead end core moderate none EXAMPLES 10 13 A polystyrene modified with 15 of EEb interpolymer EPCAR 387 Example 1 is extracted according to procedure of Example 1. The final dried gel is a white, fluffy powder containing rubber and polystyrene in an approximately 1 1 ratio by weight. Sample compositions are then prepared containing 80 parts by weight of polyphenylene ether, 20 parts by weight of isopropylated triphenyl phosphates Kronitex 50 with varying concentrations of this gel. After extrusion in a 3 49 Brabender extruder having a 1 1 compression screw at 420 F. set 130 screw rpm and molding in a 4 oz. Newbury machine at 480 F. set 200 F. mold set, the resultant physical properties are measured.The results are as follows TABLE 2 EMI18.1 Tensile SEP MV SEP at SEP 540 F tb Concentration SEP of SEP 100 SEP 1500 SEP Degree SEP of tb Example SEP gel,parts SEP by SEP weight SEP HDT SEP Izod SEP SEP Elongation SEP Yield SEP Break SEP Sec. SEP Sec. 1 SEP Lamination tb 10 SEP SEP 213 SEP 0.7 SEP 43 SEP 11,000 SEP 8,200 SEP SEP SEP none tb 11 SEP 2.9 SEP 212 SEP 1.5 SEP 21 SEP 10,000 SEP 8,000 SEP SEP SEP none tb 12 SEP 7.3 SEP 212 SEP 2.8 SEP 86 SEP 9,300 SEP 8,800 SEP 6,800 SEP 1,750 SEP none tb 13 SEP 14.9 SEP 218 SEP 6.8 SEP 79 SEP 7,900 SEP 8,100 SEP 8,400 SEP 1,880 SEP none tb These results show the beneficial effect of increasing proportions of interpolymer on an elevated plasticizer concentration.With elevated plasticizer, lamination problems are completely alleviated. Moreover, the interpolymer allows satisfactory retention of other physical properties so as to yield molded articles having a superior overall combination of properties. EXAMPLES 14 17 Varying amounts of the gel obtained inExamples 10 13 are combined with 8 parts by weight of isopropylated triphenyl phosphates plasticizer ronitex 50 , 0.15 part each of zinc oxide and zinc sulfide and sufficient polyphenylene ether to make up a total of 100 parts. The e mixture is then processed in the equipment described in Examples 1013 utilizing 5300F. set 130 screw rpm and 575 F. set 230 F. mold set. Analysis of articles molded from the sample compositions shows the following TABLE 3 EMI20.1 MV SEP at SEP 540 F tb Averaged tb Conc. SEP of SEP Gel, SEP 100 SEP 1500 SEP Flexural SEP 45 SEP Degree SEP of tb 1 16 SEP S.E. tb Modulus SEP Gloss SEP Lamination tb Example SEP parts SEP by SEP wt. SEP HDT SEP Sec 1 SEP Sec 1 SEP Times SEP Izod SEP Gardner tb 14 SEP 5.7 SEP 299 SEP SEP SEP 2.1, SEP V O SEP 3.8 SEP 300 SEP 365,000 SEP 61.0 SEP negligible tb 15 SEP 11.4 SEP 293 SEP 25,000 SEP 4,700 SEP 2.5, SEP V O SEP 7.0 SEP 300 SEP 320,000 SEP 60.3 SEP negligible tb 16 SEP 17.1 SEP 294 SEP SEP SEP 2.3, SEP V O SEP 7.6 SEP 250 SEP 308,000 SEP 58.5 SEP negligible tb 17 SEP 22.8 SEP 285 SEP 27,000 SEP 5,000 SEP 2.8, SEP V O SEP 9.4 SEP 250 SEP 248,000 SEP 57.7 SEP negligible tb These results again show the beneficial effects of increasing interpolymer concentration on high plasticizer containing compositions of the present invention. The above mentioned patents and or publications are incorporated herein by reference. Obviously, other modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of the above teachings. For example, instead of poly 2,6 dimethyl l,4 phenylene ether there can be substituted poly 2,6 dimethyl co 2,3,6 trimethyl l,4 phenylene ether copolymer. Instead of polystyrene, poly alpha methylstyrene or poly paramethylstyrene can be substituted. It may be helpful to include small amounts, e.g., 0.5 to 3 by weight of a polyolefin, such as polyethylene. In addition, conventional reinforcements and or fillers, flame retardants, stabilizers, colorants, impact modifiers can be used in conventional amounts. It is,therefore, to be understood that changes may be made in the particular ertodiments of the invention described which are within the full intended scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.