# Curable epoxy compositions and their preparation.

## Abstract
Curable epoxy compositions comprise 1 an epoxy compound having on average more than one epoxy group per molecule, and 2 a curing amount of at least one metal salt catalyst of formula M X F

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A curable composition comprising 1 an epoxy compound having on average more than one epoxy group per molecule. and 2 a curing amount of at least one metal salt catalyst of tormula M X F np where M is lithium or a Group II metal, X is boron, arsenic, antimony or phosphorus, n is 4 when X is boron and is 6 when X is arsenic, antimony or phosphorus and p is 1 when M is lithium and is 2 when M is a Group II metal 2. A composition according to claim I, wherein the epoxy compound is a glycidyl polyether of a polyhydric phenol. 3. A composition according to claim 2, wherein the polyhydric phenol is 2,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane. 4. A composition according to any of claims 1 to 3 additionally including 3 A miscible amount of at least one ethylenically unsaturated monomer. 5. A composition according to claim 4, wherein the ethylenically unsaturated monomer is styrene. 6. A composition according to any of claims 1 to 5, wherein N is lithium calcium or magnesium. 7. A composition according to any of claims 1 to 6, wherein X is boron or phosphorus. 8. A composition according to claim 7, wherein the metal salt catalyst is lithium, calcium or magnesium fluoborate. 9. A process for preparing a composition according to any of claims 1 to 8, which comprises preparing a catalyst composition by blending the metal salt catalyst with a solvent and a finely divided inert inorganic material, optionally evaporating at least a part of the solvent, and mixing the resulting composition, the ethylenically unsaturated compound, when present, and the epoxy compound. 10. Formed articles prepared by forming and curing a composition according to any of claims 1 to 8 or a composition prepared according to claim 9.

## Description
CURABLE EPOXY COMPOSITIONS, THEIR PREPARATION AND FORMED ARTICLES THEREFROM This invention relates to curable epoxy compositions, their preparation and formed article therefrom. Numerous curable epoxy compositions are known and the patents issued on curable epoxy compositions number in the hundreds. Known curing agents for such compositions include, among many others, polycarboxylic acids and anhydrides, amines, polyamides, and imidazoles. Representative curing agents are described in U.S. Patent No. 3,336,241. These curing agents may be employed with one or more catalysts or accelerators such as the stannous salts of monocarboxylic acids. It will be appreciated that each and every one of the known epoxy curing systems exhibits advantages over other systems, and as importantly, disadvantages over the same systems. There is, ot course, a continuing need to develop improved epoxy curing compositions. A curable epoxy composition has now been found which is not only simple and rapidly curable, but the resulting cured epoxy compositions exhibit excellent physical properties. According to the present invention there is provided a curable composition comprising 1 an epoxy compound having on average more than one epoxy group per molecule, and 2 a curing amount of at least one metal salt catalyst of tormula M X F np where M is lithium or a Group II metal, X is boron, arsenic, antimony or phosphorus, n is 4 when X is boron and is 6 when X is arsenic, antimony or phosphorus and p is 1 when M is lithium and is 2 when M is a Group II metal. In a preferred embodiment of the invention the composition additionally includes 3 a miscible amount of at least one ethylenically unsaturated monomer. Suitable epoxy compounds for inclusion in the compositions of the invention comprise those compounds containing on average at least one epoxy group per molecule, i.e., at least oneEMI2.1 group. These epoxy compounds may be saturated or unsaturated, aliphatic, cycloaliphatic, aromatic or heterocyclic and may be substituted if desired with non interfering substituents such as halogen atoms, hydroxyl groups, and ether radicals. They may also be monomeric or polymeric. Various examples of liquid epoxy compounds that may be used in the process of the invention are given in U.S. Patent No 2,633,458. Other suitable epoxy compounds are disclosed in U.S.Patents Nos. 3,373,221 and 3,377,406. Preferred epoxy compounds are the glycidyl polyethers of polyhydric phenols and polyhydric alcohols, especially the glycidyl polyethers of 2,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane, particularly those having an average molecular weight between 300 and 3,000 and an epoxide equivalent weight between 140 and 2,000. Other suitable epoxy compounds include those compounds derived from polyhydric phenols and having at least one vicinal epoxy group wherein the carbon to carbon bonds within the six membered ring are saturated. Examples of such epoxy compounds are described in U.S. Patent No. 3,336,241 wherein n has a value so that the average molecular weight of the saturated polyepoxide is from about 350 to about 3000. Preferred saturated epoxy compounds are the hydrogenated glycidyl ethers of 2,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane, sometimes called the diglycidyl ethers of 2,2 bis 4 cyclohexanol propane. Other examples of suitable epoxy compounds are the glycidyl novolac resins, i.e., the phenol aldehyde condensates, as described in U.S. Patent No. 2,658,885. Preferred ethylenically unsaturated monomers are the unsaturated aromatic monomers such as styrene, alpha methyl styrene halo substituted styrenes such as chlorostyrene nitro substituted styrenes such as nitrostyrene alkylsubstituted styrenes such as tertiary butyl styrene divinylbenzene, vinyl toluene 2 vinyl pyridine N vinyl pyrrolidone and vinyl naphtalene. Especially preferred is styrene. Other suitable monomers, which are preferably blended with styrene, include, 1 esters of ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acids, 2 cyano containing unsaturated compounds, 3 allyl containing compounds, and 4 olefins or diolefins and 5 alkyl phenols. Suitable unsaturated monocarboxylic acid esters include the alkyl esters of ethylenically unsaturated acids such as acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, crotonic acid, alpha phenylacrylic acid, itaconic acid, citraconic acid, fumaric acid, cyanoacrylic acid and methoxyacrylic acid. Preferred acids are acrylic acid and methacrylic acid. Accordingly, suitable such esters include, methyl methacrylate, ethyl acrylate, butyl acrylate, butyl methacrylate, isobutyl methacrylate, pentaerythritol triacrylate, and trimethylolpropane trimethacrylate. Suitable cyano compounds include acrylonitrile and methacrylonitrile. Suitable allyl monomers include diallyl phthalate and triallyl isocyanurate. Suitable alkyl phenols include nonyl phenol and lower and higher homologues, and alkylated bisphenol acetone or other diphenols. Other suitable comonomers include the unsaturated aliphatic compounds such as the olefins and diolefins. Operable such olefins and diolefins include ethylene, propylene, butylene, amylene, butadiene, isoprene, vinyl hexane, vinyl cyclohexanes, vinyl cyclohexene, vinyl cyclopentane, vinyl cyclopentene, norbornadiene, cyclopentadiene, cyclopentadiene dimer and the like. It will be appreciated that since some of these monomers are normally gases at ambient temperatures and pressures, their use dictates that the compositions be formulated and cured under pressure conditions. Accordingly, they may be useful in reaction injection moulding RIM processes. The ethylenically unsaturated monomer s are preferably included in amounts ranging from 10 to 200 parts by weight of ethylenically unsaturated monomer s per 100 parts by weight of epoxy compound. Preferred metal salt catalysts are those wherein M is lithium, magnesium or calcium. Metal salt catalysts wherein X is phosphorus or, particularly, boron are preferred. In particular the fluoborates of lithium and calcium are preterred. The metal salt catalyst may typically be included in an amount from 0.05 to 15 parts by weight per hundred parts by weight of epoxy compound phr , preferably 0.1 to 10.0 phr and more preferably 0.5 to 2.0 phr. The compositions of the invention may be prepared by various techniques. If, for example, the compositions are to be utilized within a short time, they can be simply prepared by mixing all the components, then, if desired, adding one or more of the customary additives such as solvents fillers reinforcement fibres mats and bars pigments flame retardant agents antioxidants plasticizers stabilizers extenders and thiotropic agents and then forming moulding and curing the resulting composition. The resulting formed articles also form part of the invention. A preferred process of preparing compositions of theInvention comprises preparing a catalyst composition by blending the metal salt catalyst with a solvent and a finely divided inert inorganic material, optionally evaporating at least a part of the solvent, and mixing the resulting composition, the ethylenically unsaturated compound, when present, and the epoxy compound. Examples of suitable solvents include water and oxycontaining solvents such as alcohols, glycols and glycol ethers as well as ketones and other organic solvents. Suitable solvents include tetrahydrofuran THF , acetone, methyl ethyl ketone MEK , methyl isobutyl ketone MIBK , pyran, propylene carbonate, cyclohexanone, acetophenone, diethyl ether, ethylene glycol, OXITOL registered trademark 2 ethoxyethanol , CELLOSOLVE registered trademark and CELLOSOLVE Acetate registered trademark , morpholine, ethyl alcohol, dimethylsulphoxide DMSO , and dimethylformamide DMF . Suitable inorganic materials include silica gel, alumina, CABOSIL registered trademark , mica clays, talcs, glasses asbestos, gypsum, anhydrous CaSO4, and titanium dioxide TiO2 . The invention will be further understood from the following illustrative Examples, in which, unless otherwise indicated, parts and percentages in the Examples are parts and percentages by weight. Epoxy Resin A is a liquid glycidyl polyether of 2,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane having an epoxide equivalent WPE of 175 190 and an average molecular weight of about 350. Epoxy Resin B is a solid glycidyl polyether of 2,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane having a WPE of about 500 and an average molecular weight of about 900.EXAMPLE I Into a 500 ml beaker were placed 150 grams of Polyether A, a solution of 1.5 g 2 ethoxyethanol and 0.75 g of LiBF4. The mixture was stirred until homogenous and poured into a HDT mould to produce test specimens of 1.25 cm x 1.25 cm x 12.5 cm 1 2 xl 2 x5 and a plate mould 10 cm x 20 cm x 0.3 cm 4 x8 x1 8 . The material was set aside at ambient temperature for 1 hour exotherm observed and then cured at 700C for 7 hours and post cured at 1200C for 2 hours.The cured composition had the following physical properties HDT 75 C Extension commat Break 2.3 tensile stress at break, biPa psi 48.3 7000 Young s modulus, MPa psi 3,520 510,000 Izod, J M ft lbs in notch 16 0.3 Retention of shear modulus at 700 C percentage of ambient temperature shear modulus retained at 700C in a torsion test 51 EXAMPLE II Into a 25 ml polypropylene beaker were placed 10 grams ofPolyether A and a solution containing 0.1 grams LiBF4 and 0.1 gram of water. The mixture was stirred rapidly and 2 grams of this mixture were placed in a vial immersed in an oil bath at 1500C. The mixture exothermed to 2360C in 66 seconds and upon being removed from the bath was a solid cured mass.EXAMPLE III 10 grams of Polyether A were mixed with a solution containing 0.1 gram Ca BF4 2 and 0.2 g 2 ethoxyethanol. After rapid mixing by hand, the mass cured and solidified within 20 seconds after the initial contact at ambient temperature. The procedure of Example III was essentially repeated usingNaBF4, KBF4, NH4BF4 and NH4PF6 in lieu of Ca BF4 2. Even after heating 2 gram samples at 100 C to 1500C for periods exceeding 1 day, no appreciable gel was observed, thus indicating clearly the general ineffectiveness of the Na, K and NH4 salts of fluoboric acid. EXAEPLES IV and V The procedure of Example III was essentially repeated using the following compositions Composition A Example IV Parts by Weight Polyether A 10 Mg BF4 2 0.10 Water 0.23 Composition B Example V Polyether A 10 Ca BF4 2 0.10 2 ethoxyethanol 0.25 The compositions were stirred by hand, poured on a gel plate and spread with a doctor blade into 250 micron film.The film from Composition A cured hard in less than 30 minutes at room temperature and could be peeled from the plate. The film from Composition B cured in 1 hour and 15 minutes at room temperature. No significant exotherm was observed in these thin tilms, indicating truly ambient cure.EXAMPLE VI The procedure of Example III was repeated but omitting the 2 ethoxyethanol. Similar results were obtained.EXAMPLE VII The procedure of Example III was repeated wherein an equivalent amount of the following solvents were used tetrahydrofuran, acetone, methyl isobutyl ketone, methyl ethyl ketone, acetophenone, cyclohexanone, diethyl ether, ethylene glycol and propylene carbonate. Similar results were obtained.EXAMPLE VIII The procedure of Example I was essentially repeated wherein 10 grams of Epoxy Resin B were ground, mixed with 0.1 gram ofLiBF4 dried in vacuum and placed on a 100 C gel plate. The solid resin melted and gelled in 42 seconds and full hardness was exhibited 2 hours. The cured resin could nto be melted again, thus proving it had cured. Neat Epoxy Resin B can be melted and remelted. EXAMPLE IX This Example illustrates the preparation of a preferred metal catalyst curing agent powder. 1 gram of LiBS4 was dissolved in 10 grams of 2 ethoxyethanol. Then, 1 gram of CABOSIL registered trademark fumed silica was added and stripped under vacuum for 4 hours at 400C. 3.18 grams of white free flowing powder were obtained. One hundred parts by weight of Polyether A and of PolyetherB could be effectively cured with 3 parts by weight of the above curing agent in less than 20 minutes at room temperature.EXAMPLE X The procedure of Example IX was essentially repeated wherein a catalyst was prepared by mixing 0.27 grams of Ca BF4 2.4H20, 0.42 grams of 2 ethoxyethanol and 0.31 grams of CABOSIL registered trademark fumed silica. Then 0.1 grams of the resulting dry catalyst was mixed with 0.85 grams of EpoxyResin A in a hole 1.25 cm 1 2 deep and 0.63 cm 1 4 in diameter in the side of a 19 kg 42 pound Portland concrete block by agitating a 0.48 cm 3 16 eye bolt for thirty seconds. After 3 minutes, it was possible to lift the concrete block by the eye bolt. EXAMPLE XI The procedure of Example X was essentially repeated wherein mica, silica gel, talc, anhydrous CaS04, and Bentonite clay was used in lieu of the CABOSIL . Essentially the same results were obtained except that more catalyst based on Bentonite clay was required to produce a good cure, i.e. ca 5 phr or more.EXAMPLE XII The example illustrates the effectiveness of the instant metal salts as curing agents for epoxy resins. The components were mixed together and the gel cure time was determined at preselected temperatures RT ambient temperature . The results of representative experiments are tabulated in Table I. TABLE IPolyether pbw Curing agent pbw Solvent pbbw Gel Time Temp.A 100 Ca BF4 2 1 2 ethoxyethanol 2 20 sec. RT 1 hr 10 min in a film RT A 80 Ca BF4 2 1 2 ethoxyethanol 20 18 sec. 100 CA 100 LiPF6 1 2 ethoxyethanol 2 2 1 2 min RTA 100 LiBF4 1 H2O 1 66 sec. 150 CA 100 Mg BF4 2 1 H2O 2.3 30 sec. RT 250 micron filmA 100 Ca BF4 2 1 Toluene 100 2 1 2 min RT cyclohexanone 2A 100 Mg BF4 2 1.2 Toluene 100 1.3 min RT cyclohexanone 2.2A 100 LiBF4 1 0.7 min 100 C EXAMPLE XIII 3.9 parts by weight of the catalyst of Example IX and 20 parts by weight pbw of styrene were introduced into Kettle B of an Accuratio registered trademark Reaction InjectionMolding RIM machine. 100 parts by weight of Polyether A were placed into Kettle B of the RIM machine.The machine was then operated to produce a final mixture of 100 pbw Polyether A, 20 pbw of styrene and 3.9 pbw of catalyst 1.0 pbw of LiBF4 and injected into a 0.3 cm x 20 cm x 25 cm 1 8 x8 x10 flat plate mold at 1000C. The mold was opened after 15 minutes and the solid plate removed, having the following properties HDT, OC 109 Elongation at Break, 2.5 Tensile stress at yield, MPa psi 32.4 4700 Tensile modulus, MPa psi 2,830 410,000 Retention of shear modulus at 700C, 94 Shear modulus, MPa psi 1,060 154,000 Izod impact, J M ft lb in 16 0.3 Charpy Impact J M ft lb in 11 0.2 EXAMPLE XIV This example illustrates the effectiveness of the present solid salts as curing agents for epoxy styrene blends. The components were mixed together and the gel cure time was determined at preselected temperatures. The results of representative experiments are tabulated in Table II. TABLE IIPolyether A Styrene Catalyst Solvent Cure or Gel Time Temp, pbw pbw pbw pbw C 100 25 Ca BF4 2 0.5 2 ethoxyethanol 1 2 minutes commat 20 C. Exothermed in HDT bars 80 20 Ca BF4 2 1 2 ethoxyethanol 2 18 seconds commat 20 C. Cured in 10 minutes commat 100 C 80 20 Mg BF4 2 1 2 ethoxyethanol 3 60 seconds commat 40 C. Exothermed to 215 C in 1 minute 80 20 LiBF4 1 2 ethoxyethanol 2 Cured in 2 hours commat 125 C to produce good casting BR HDT bars 80 20 Mg BF4 2 1 H2O 2.3 135 minutes commat 20 C. in 0.025 cm film