# 2 Aminophenol derivatives and process for their preparation.

## Abstract
2 AMINOPHENOL derivatives of the general formula CHEM wherein R represents a group of the general formula CHEM in which Z represents a sulfur atom or a sulfinyl group and R 1 n represents that i n is an integer of 1, 2 or 3 and R 1 , which may be the same or different, is a hydrogen atom, a straight or branched chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms or a halogen atom ii n is an integer of 1, 2 or 3 and R 1 is a hydroxy group or iii n is an integer of 2 and two R 1 s are a hydroxy group and an amino group, a hydroxy group and a straight or branched chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms, or a hydroxy group and a halogen atom, such groups being at o position or p position to each other , or R represents a group of the general formula CHEM in which m is an integer of 1 or 2 and R 2 , which may be the same or different, represents a hydrogen atom, a straight or branched chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms or a halogen atom , or R represents a group of the general formula CHEM in which the various symbols are as hereinbefore defined , or R represents a group of the general formula CHEM u

## Claims
CLAIMS FOR THE DESIGNATED STATES G.B, RF, DE, CH, LI, LU, BE, NL, IT, SE 1. A 2 aminophenol derivative of the general formula EMI57.1 wherein R represents a group of the general formula EMI57.2 in which Z represents a sulfur atom or a sulfinyl group and R1 n represents that i n is an integer of 1, 2 or 3 and R , which may be the same or different, is a hydrogen atom, a straight or branched chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms or a halogen atom ii n is an integer of 1, 2 or 3 and R1 is a hydroxy group or Cii n is an integer of 2 and two R s are a hydroxy group and an amino group, a hydroxy group and a straight or branched chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms, or a hydroxy group and a halogen atom, such groups being at position or p position to each other , orR represents a group of the general formula EMI58.1 in which m is an integer of 1 or 2 and R2, which may be the same or different, represents a hydrogen atom, a straight or branched chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms or a halogen atom , orR represents a group of the general formula EMI58.2 in which the various symbols are as hereinbefore defined , orR represents a group of the general formula EMI58.3 in which the various symbols are as hereinbefore defined , or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof. 2. A compound according to claim 1, wherein R represents a group of the general formula EMI58.4 wherein the various symbols are as defined in claim 1 . 3. A compound according to claim 2, wherein Z, in the general formula IIa , represents a sulfur atom. 4. A compound according to claim 2, wherein Z, in the general formula IIa , represents a sulfinyl group. 5. A compound according to claim 3 or 4, wherein R n in the general formula IIa , represents that i n is an integer of 1 and R is a hydrogen atom, a straight or branched chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms or a halogen atom, or n is an integer of 3 and R1, which may be the same or different, is a straight or branched chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms ii n is an integer of 1 and R is a hydroxy group or iii n is an integer of 2 and two R s are a hydroxy group and an amino group, such groups being at o position or p position to each other. 6. A compound according to claim 5, wherein RÚ n, in the general formula IIa , is attached a to the 4th position, or to the 2nd, 4th and 6th positions of the benzene ring when R n represents the case i in claim 5, bj to the 4th position of the benzene ring when R n represents the case ii in claim 5, or c to the 3rd and 4th positions of the benzene ring when R1 n represents the case iii in claim 5. 7. A compound according to claim 6, which is 2 amino 4phenylthiophenol or its hydrochloride. 8. A compound according to claim 6, which is 2 amino 4 4 methylphenylthio phenol or its hydrochloride. 9. A compound according to claim 6, which is 2 amino 4 4 tert butylphenylthio phenol or its hydrochloride. 10. A compound according to claim 6, which is 2 amino 4 2,4, 6 trimethylphenylthio phenol or its hydrochloride. 11. A compound according to claim 6, which is 2 amino 4 4 chlorophenylthio phenol or its hydrochloride. 12. A compound according to claim 6, which is 2 amino 4 4 hydroxyphenylthio phenol or its hydrochloride. 13. A compound according to claim 6, which is 2 amino 4 3 amino 4 hydroxyphenylthio phenol or its hydrochloride. 14. A compound according to claim 6, which is 2 amino 4benzenesulfinylphenol or its hydrochloride. 15. A compound according to claim 1, wherein R represents a group of the general formula EMI60.1 wherein the various symbols are as defined in claim 1 . 16. A compound according to claim 1, wherein R represents a group of the general formula EMI60.2 wherein the various symbols are as defined in claim 1 . 17. A compound according to claim 1, wherein R represents a group of the general formula EMI61.1 wherein the various symbols are as defined in claim 1 . 18. A compound according to claim 15, 16 or 17, wherein R2 m, in the general formula lIb , IIc or lId , represents that m is an integer of 1 and R is a hydrogen atom, a straight or branched chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms or a halogen atom. 19. A compound according to claim 18, wherein R2, in the general formula IIb or IIc , is attached to the 4th position of the benzene ring, or R2, in the general formula IId , is attached to the 5th or 6th position of the benzothiazole ring. 20. A compound according to claim 19, which is 2 amino 4phenylethynylphenol or its hydrochloride. 21. A compound according to claim 19, which is N 3 amino4 hydroxyphenyl benzamide or its hydrochloride. 22. A compound according to claim 19, which is 2 amino 4 2 benzothiazolyl phenol or its hydrochloride. 23. A process for the preparation of a 2 aminophenol derivative as claimed in claim 1 and conforming to the general formula EMI62.1 wherein the various symbols are as defined in claim 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof, which comprises selectively reducing the nitro group and R3, when one ofR3 represents a nitro group of a compound of the general formula EMI62.2 orEMI63.1 wherein K3 n represents that 3 i n is an integer of 1, 2 or 3 and R , which may be the same or different, is a hydrogen atom, a straight or branched chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms or a halogen atom ii n is an integer of 1, 2 or 3 and R is a hydroxy group or ji n is an integer of 2 and two R s are a hydroxy group and a nitro group, a hydroxy group and a straight or branched chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms, or a hydroxy group and a halogen atom, such groups being at position or p position to each other, and the other symbols are as hereinbefore defined to convert to amino group s to obtain a compound of the general formula EMI64.1 orEMI65.1 wherein the various symbols are as hereinbefore defined , respectively, or converting the 2 aminophenol derivative of the general formula I obtained into a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof by methods known per se. 24. A pharmaceutical composition for the prevention and the treatment of allergic tracheal and bronchial diseases or allergic lung diseases, allergic shocks or various allergic inflammations, or for the prevention and the treatment of various inflammations induced by prostaglandins, which comprises, as active ingredient, an effective amount of at least one compound of the general formula I depicted in claim 1, wherein the various symbols are as defined in claim 1, or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof, together with a pharmaceutical carrier or coating. CLAIMS FOR THE DESIGNATED STATE AU 1. A process for the preparation of a 2 aminophenol derivative of the general formula EMI67.1 wherein R represents a group of the general formula EMI67.2 in which Z represents a sulfur atom or a sulfinyl group and R1 represents that i n is an integer of 1, 2 or 3 and K , which may be the same or different, is a hydrogen atom, a straight or branched chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms or a halogen atom ii n is an integer of 1, 2 or 3 and K is a hydroxy group or il n is an integer of 2 and two Rls are a hydroxy group and an amino group, a hydroxy group and a straight or branched chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms, or a hydroxy group and a halogen atom, such groups being at o position or p position to each other , orR represents a group of the general formula EMI68.1 in which m is an integer of 1 or 2 and Rê, which may be the same or different, represents a hydrogen atom, a straight or branched chain alkyl group containing fran I to 6 carbon atoms or a halogen atom , orR represents a group of the general formula EMI68.2 in which the various symbols are as hereinbefore defined , orR represents a group of the general formula EMI68.3 in which the various symbols are as hereinbefore defined , or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereofawhich comprises selectively reducing the nitro group and R3, when one of R represents a nitro group of a compound of the general formula EMI68.4 orEMI69.1 wherein R n represents that i n is an integer of 1, 2 or 3 and R , which may be the same or different, is a hydrogen atom, a straight or branched chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms or a halogen atom ii n is an integer of 1, 2 or 3 and R is a hydroxy group or flfi n is an integer of 2 and two R3s are a hydroxy group and a nitro group, a hydroxy group and a straight or branched chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms, or a hydroxy group and a halogen atom, such groups being at o position or p position to each other, and the other symbols are as hereinbefore defined to convert to amino group s to obtain a compound of the general formula EMI70.1 orEMI71.1 wherein the various symbols are as hereinbefore defined , respectively, or converting the 2 aminophenol derivative of the general formula I obtained into a pharmaceutically ncceptable acid addition salt thereof by methods known per se. 2. A process according to claim 1, wherein R represents a group of the general formula EMI72.1 wherein the various symbols are as defined in claim 1 . 3. A process according to claim 2, wherein Z, in the general formula IIa , represents a sulfur atom. 4. A process according to claim 2, wherein Z, in the general formula IIa , represents a sulfinyl group. 5. A process according to claim 3 or 4, wherein RÚ n, in the general formula IIa , represents that i n is an integer of 1 and RÚ is a hydrogen atom, a straight or branched chain alkyl group containing from I to 6 carbon atoms or a halogen atom, or n is an integer of 3 and R , which may be the same or different, is a straight or branched chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms ii n is an integer of 1 and RÚ is a hydroxy group or Cii n is an integer of 2 and two RÚs are a hydroxy group and an amino group, such groups being at position or p position to each other. 6. A process according to claim 5, wherein R1 n, in the general formula via , is attached a to the 4th position, or to the 2nd, 4th and 6th positions of the benzene ring when R1 n represents the case i in claim 5, b to the 4th positions of the benzene ring when R1 n represents the case ii in claim 5, or c to the 3rd and 4th positions of the benzene ring when R1 n represents the case iii in claim 5. 7. A process according to claim 6, in which the compound is 2 amino 4 phenylthiophenol or its hydrochloride. 8. A process according to claim 6, in which the compound is 2 amino 4 4 methylphenylthio phenol or its hydrochloride. 9. A process according to claim 6, in which the compound is 2 amino 4 4 tert butylphenylthio phenol or its hydrochloride. 10. A process according to claim 6, in which the compound is 2 amino 4 2,4,6 trimethylphenylthio phenol or its hydrochloride. 11. A process according to claim 6, in which the compound is 2 amino 4 4 chlorophenylthio phenol or its hydrochloride. 12. A process according to claim 6, in which the, compound is 2 amino 4 4 hydroxyphenylthio phenol or its hydrochloride. 13. A process according to claim 6, in which the compound is 2 amino 4 3 amino 4 hydroxyphenylthio phenol or its hydrochloride. 14. A process according to claim 6, in which the compound is 2 amino 4 benzenesulfinylphenol or its hydrochloride. 15. A process according to claim 1, wherein R represents a group of the general formula EMI74.1 wherein the various symbols are as defined in claim 1 . 16. A process according to claim 1, wherein R represents a group of the general formula EMI74.2 wherein the various symbols are as defined in claim 1 . 17. A process according to claim 1, wherein R represents a group of the general formula EMI74.3 wherein the various symbols are as defined in claim 1 . 18. A process according to claim 15, 16 or 17, wherein Rê m, in the general formula IIb , IIc or IId , represents that m is an integer of 1 and Rê is a hydrogen atom, a straight or branched chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms or a halogen atom 19. A process according to claim 18, wherein , in the general formula IIb or IIa , is attached to the 4th position of the benzene ring, or Rê, in the general formula IId , is attached to the 5th or 6th position of the benzothiazole ring. 20. A process according to claim 19, in which the compound is 2 amino 4 phenylethynylphenol or its hydrochloride. 21. A process according to claim 19, in which the compound is N 3 amino 4 hydroxyphenyl benzamide or its hydrochloride. 22. A process according to claim 19, in which the compound is 2 amino 4 2 benzothiazolyl phenol or its hydrochloride.

## Description
SPECIFICATION 2 AMINOPHENOL DERIVATIVES AND PROCESS FOR THEIR PREPARATION This invention is concerned to new 2 aminophenol derivatives which have an inhibitory activity on 5 lipoxygenase specifically or an inhibitory activity on 5 lipoxygenase and cyclooxygenase at the same time, the process for their preparation and pharmaceutical compositions containing them as an active ingredient. Up to now, several compounds which inhibit lipoxygenase have been known, that is to say, 5,8,11,14 eicosatetraynoic acid i.e. ETYA , 5,8,ll eicosatriynoic acid, acetone phenylhydrazone i.e. APH , phenidone i.e. l phenyl 3 pyrazolidone , NDGA nordihydroguaiaretic acid , 3W 7 75C 3 amino l p trifluoromethyl pyrazole , 3 amino l p chlorophenyl2 pyrazoline, benoxaprofene. These above compounds inhibit all lipoxygenases and other enzymes in the arachidonate cascade at the same time, or inhibit all lipoxygenases of 5 , 12 and 15 lipoxygenase see Gendai Iryo , 12, 1065 1980 . The compounds of the present invention are particularly superior in having selective inhibitory activity on 5 lipoxygenase of many lipoxygenases,which react at the first stage of producing various kinds of leukotrienes from arachidonic acid in a living body and further not inhibiting other enzymes in the arachidonate cascade, or in having inhibitory activity on 5 lipoxygenase and cyclooxygenase which reacts at the first step of producing prostaglandins from arachidonic acid similarly, at the same time. This invention is concerned to new 2 aminophenol derivatives which have an inhibitory activity on 5 lipoxygenase, or an inhibitory activity on 5 lipoxygenase and on cyclooxygenase at the same time, the process for their preparation and pharmaceutical compositions containing them as an active ingredient. More particularly, there are a group of compounds called leukotrienes, which are biosynthesized from arachidonic acid by a series of reactions in a living body and 5 lipoxygenase is related to the first step of this reaction. Similarly, prostaglandins are biosynthesized from arachidonic acid by another series of reactions, and cyclooxygenase is related to the first step of such reaction.This invention is concerned to new 2 aminophenol derivatives which strongly inhibit 5 lipoxygenase or strongly inhibit 5 lipoxygenase and cyclooxygenase at the same time, and which are, therefore, useful as treating and preventing agents for diseases which induced by leukotrienes, e.g.allergic tracheal and bronchial diseases or allergic lung diseases, allergic shocks or various allergic inflammations, and various inflammations induced by prostaglandins, and further, this invention is concerned to the process for their preparation and pharmaceutical compositions comprising them as an active ingredient. In the study of prostaglandins abbreviated as PG hereafter , many important discoveries have been made continuously in recent years.And so it was found a large change in the direction of the research and development of PG. In the compounds which have been newly found or newly confirmed their structure in PG family, it can be said thatPG endoperoxides, i.e. PGG2 and PGH2 , thromboxane A2 abbreviated asTXA2 hereafter , prostacyclin i.e. PGI2 and leukotriene C, D and E abbreviated as LTC, LTD and LTE, respectively, hereafter etc. have especially strong and unique biological activities. All the compounds of PG family containing various PG previously known well in addition to the above compounds, are biosynthesized from the same mother compound, i.e. arachidonic acid in a living body and, therefore, the metabolic routes starting from arachidonic acid is called Arachidonate cascade as a whole. The detailed explanation of each route and the pharmacological character of each metabolite are described in Igaku no Ayumi, 114, 378 1980 , ibid, 114, 462 1980 , ibid, 114, 866 1980 , ibid, 114, 929 1980 , Gendai Iryo, 12, 909 1980 , ibid, 12, 1029 1980 , ibid, 12, 1065 1980 and ibid, 12, 1105 1980 etc. The arachidonate cascade can be largely divided into two routes one is the route that cyclooxygenase acts on arachidonic acid to convert, via PGG2 and further PGH2, into various PG, e.g. prostaglandinF2a abbreviated PGF2a hereafter , prostaglandin E2 abbreviated PCE2 hereafter , PGI2, TEA2, and the other is the route that lipoxygenase acts on arachidonic acid to convert, via hydroperoxyeicosatetraenoic acid abbreviated HPETE hereafter , into hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid abbreviated as HETE hereafter or leukotrienes. As the former route is well known, it is not described in the present specification in detail. See Prostaglandin 1978 , edited byMakoto Katori, published by Kohdan sha. Concerning the latter route, it has been known that various compounds are produced according to the following Scheme A. SCHEME AEMI4.1 EMI4.2 tb SEP Arachidonic SEP acid tb SEP ILipoxvoenase tb SEP JI SEP 8 LoETE, tb SEP ooH SEP 8 HPETE, tb SEP w SEP COOH SEP g MPETE tb SEP I SEP ll HPETEs tb SEP 9 SEP 12 HPETE SEP or tb SEP 5 HPETE SEP l5 HPETS tb SEP SEP Peroxidase tb SEP Peroxidase SEP 8 HETZ, tb SEP 9 KETS, tb RETS SEP 5 SEP ii SEP KETS, tb 5 SEP Is SEP 12 KETE SEP or tb SEP 15 H3TS tb SEP LTA tb SEP Glutathion S SEP trans SEP feras SEP e tb SEP OH SEP H tb SEP ,COOH tb SEP 4oCs Xg SEP S CS2 tb SEP trc SEP CHCONHCH COOH tb SEP NHCJ CH SEP OH SEP CCOOH tb SEP 2 tb SEP NH2 tb SEP OH SEP lutarnyl SEP CK SEP H tb SEP I SEP y lueamyl SEP transpeptidase tb SEP yMCOOH SEP COO L tb SEP J tb SEP C5Hu SEP F31 tb SEP OH SEP LTD SEP C SEP GONHCH2COOU. tb SEP Leukotriene SEP B SEP 1 SEP OH SEP H tb SEP COOH tb SEP LT SEP 6 ioo tb SEP H2 tb Besides being metabolized through a well known route, i.e.the route via PG endoperoxides, arachidonic acid is also metabolized through another route by the action of lipoxygenase. That is to say, arachidonic acid is metabolized by the action of lipoxygenase, e.g.5 lipoxygenase, 12 lipoxygenase and 15 lipoxygenase, to 5 HPETE, 12 HPETE and l5 HPETE, respectively, having following formulae EMI5.1 These HPETE are converted into 5 HETE, 12 HETE and 15 HETE, respectively, by the action of peroxidase converting a hydroperoxy group into a hydroxy group. Furthermore, LTA is also produced from 5 HPETE.LTA is converted into leukotriene B abbreviated as LTB hereafter enzymatically or not enzymatically, or is converted into LTC by the action of glutathion S transferase. Further, LTC is converted intoLTD by the action of y glutamyl transpeptidase. Moreover, it was recently defined that LTD is metabolized to tTE tsee Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun., 91, 1266 1979 andProstaglandins, 19 5 , 645 1980 l. It was found that LTC and LTD are identical with SRS slow reacting substance or SRS A slow reacting substance of anaphylaxis which was well known before tsee Proc. Natl. Acad Sci. USA, 76, 4275 1979 , Biochem. Biophys. Res. Common., 91, 1266 1979 , Proc. Natl.Acad. Sci. USA, 77, 2014 1980 and Nature, 285, 104 1980 J So it can be understood that the pharmacological characters of these leukotrienes are the same as those of SRS or SRS A. Feldberg et al. reported that a substance is released when perfusing cobra venom through isolated lung or incubating cobra venom with vitellus. The substance was named SRS and it has been found thatSRS constricts ilem isolated from guinea pig slowly and continually see J. Physiol., 94, 187 1938 J. Moreover, Kellaway et al. showed the relation between SRS A and allergic reaction from the fact that SRS A is released when an antigen is sensitized to perfusing lung isolated from guinea pig see Quant. J. Exp. Physio., 30, 121 1940 1. Brocklehurst reported that when the antigen is sensitized to a lung fragment isolated from a bronchial asthmatics whose specific antigen is defined, by an operation, histamine and SRS A are released and strongly constrict bronchial muscle. Since such constriction can not be prevented by an antihistaminic agent, he suggested that SRS A is an important bronchoconstrictor in an asthmatic paroxysm see Progr.Allergy, 6, 539 1962 . Since then, many reports were published, for instance, SRS A prepared from human lung slice constrict a tracheal spiral of normal human see Int. Arch. Allergy Appl. Immunol., 38, 217 1970 whenSRS A prepared from rats is injected intravenously to guinea pig, significant increase of purlmonory resistance is observed see J. Clin.Invest., 53, 1679 1974 in addition, a subcutaneous injection ofSRS A to guinea pig, rat and monkey makes vascular permeability to enhance. see Advances in Immunology, 10, 105 1969 , J. Allergy Clin. Immunol., 621, 371 1978 , Prostaglandins, 19 5 , 779 1980 etc. . Generally, the substance released by immunological reaction is called SRS A. On the other hand, the substance released by nonimmunological reaction such as calcium ionophore is called SRS. However, the above two substances have many similarities each other and, therefore, it is considered they would probably be the same substance. Based on result of these studies, various leukotrienes LTC,LTD and LTE, and further other leukotrienes which may be confirmed their structures in future biosynthesized from arachidonic acid via LTA, are considered to be important factors relating to the appearance of allergic tracheal and bronchial disease, allergic lung disease, allergic shock and various allergic inflammations. Recently, it was proposed that PG is an important chemical mediator of inflammatory reaction. For example, it was reported thatPGE enhances a vascular permeability and a pain, and has a vasodilative action, pyrogenetic action and chemotactic action tsee Prostaglandin 1978 , edited by Makoto Katori, published by Kohdan sha . Furthermore, it was reported that PGI2 alone does not affect vascular permeability, but it enhances vascular permeability of histamine see Prostaglandins, 15, 557 1978 1. Moreover, the most recent report indicated that in order to suppress such action of PG, it is more effective to inhibit not only 5 lipoxygenase but also cyclooxygenase at the same time seeBiochemical Pharmacology, 28, 1959 1979 and European Journal ofPharmacology, 66, 81 1980 . As the result of energetic investigations in order to find new compounds inhibiting 5 lipoxygenase, or inhibiting 5 lipoxygenase and cyclooxygenase at the same time in a living body, and so being effective for prevention and treatment of not only various allergic diseases induced by leukotrienes but also inflammations induced by PGs, we have found the compounds which can be achieved that purpose, having completed this invention. The present invention accordingly provides new 2 aminophenol derivatives of the general formula EMI9.1 wherein R represents a group of the general formula EMI9.2 in which Z represents a sulfur atom or a sulfinyl group and RI n represents that i n is an integer of 1, 2 or 3 and R , which may be the same or different, is a hydrogen atom, a straight or branched chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms or a halogen atom ii n is an integer of 1, 2 or 3 and R is a hydroxy group or iii n is an integer of 2 and two R s are a hydroxy group and an amino group, a hydroxy group and a straight or branched chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms, or a hydroxy group and a halogen atom, such groups being at position or p position to each other , orR represents a group of the general formula EMI9.3 in which m is an integer of 1 or 2 and Rê, which may be the same or different, represents a hydrogen atom, a straight or branched chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms or a halogen atom , orR represents a group of the general formula EMI10.1 in which the various symbols are as hereinbefore defined , orR represents a group of the general formula EMI10.2 in which the various symbols are as hereinbefore defined , and pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts thereof. In the general formulae IIa , IIb , IIc and IId , examples of the straight or branched chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms represented by RÚ and Rê, are methyl, ethyl, propyl, butyl, pentyl and hexyl and their isomers, preferably methyl or tert butyl. In the general formulae IIa , IIb , IIc and IId , examples of the halogen atom represented by R1 and R2, are fluorine, chlorine, bromine and iodine atom, preferably chlorine atom. In the general formulae IIa , IIb , IIc and IId , if is also preferable that RÚ or Rê represents a hydrogen atom. In the general formula IIa , it is also preferable that R1 n represents hydroxy group s . In the general formula IIa , preferable Z is a sulfur atom. In the general formula IIa , preferable R1 n represents that i n is an integer of 1 and R is a hydrogen atom, a straight or branched chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms or a halogen atom, or n is an integer of 3 and R , which may be the same or different, is a straight or branched chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms ii n is an integer of 1 and R is a hydroxy group or iii n is an integer of 2 and two R s are a hydroxy group and an amino group, such groups being at o position or p position to each other. In the general formula IIa , when R1 n represents the case i or ii , R1 n may be attached to the free position of the benzene ring, and when R1 n represents the case iii , R1 n may be attached wherever R1 may be at position or p position to each other. Preferably RÚ n is attached a to the 4th position of the benzene ring when RÚ n represents the case i and n is an integer of 1, and to the 2nd, 4th and 6th positions of the benzene ring when R n represents the case i and n is an integer of 3, b to the 4th position of the benzene ring when R1 represents the case ii and n is an integer of 1, and c to the 3rd and 4th positions of the benzene ring when K1 n represents the case iii . More preferred examples of R1 n are a hydrogen atom, 4 methyl group, 4 chloro group, 4 hydroxy gorup, 3 amino 4 hydroxy group, 2,4,6 trimethyl group and 4 tert butyl group. In the general formulae IIb , IIc and lid , preferable m represents that m is an integer of 1 and Rê is a hydrogen atom, a straight or branched chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms or a halogen atom. In the general formulae IIb , IIc and IId , R2 m may be attached to the free position of the benzene ring or of the benzothiazole ring, and preferably attached to the 4th position of the benzene ring when m is an integer of 1 in the general formulae IIb and IIc , and preferably attached to the 5th or 6th position of the benzothiazole ring when m is an integer of 1 in the general formula IId . In the general formulae IIb , IIc and IId , more preferred example of R2 is a hydrogen atom. Many analogous compounds to compounds of the present invention, i.e. compounds substituted by various benzene derivatives at the 4th, 5th or 6th position of 2 aminophenol, have been known well. For example, 2 amino 4 benzenesulfonylphenol . Chem. Abst., 50, 14236g 1956 , 2 amino 4 2 benzimidazolyl phenol Chem. Abst., 46, 2811h 1952 1, N phenyl 3 amino 4 hydroxybenzamide them. Abst., 48, 14223i 1954 , 2 amino 6 2 benzothiazolyl phenol Chem. Abst., 87, 137320v 1977 and 2 amino 5 phenylthiophenol Chem. Abst., 76, 25208f 1972 and ibid, 78, 43391f 1973 have been already known. However, the compounds of the present invention are entirely novel, and further there is no literatures describing that the above compounds have the same inhibitory activity on 5 lipoxygenase or on cyclooxygenase as the compounds of the present invention possess. The compounds of the general formula I may be classified, according to the difference of R, into the compounds of the general formulae Ia , Ib , Ic and Id below EMI13.1 andEMI14.1 wherein the various symbols are as hereinbefore defined . According to the present invention, compounds of the general formulae Ia , Ib , Ic and Id may be prepared by the selective reduction to amino group s of the nitro group and R3, when one of R3 represents a nitro group of the corresponding compounds of the following general formulae IIIa , IIIb . IlIc and IIId , respectively, i.e. compounds of the general formulae EMI14.2 andEMI15.1 wherein R3 n represents that 3 i n is an integer of 1, 2 or 3 and R , which may be the same or different, is a hydrogen atom, a straight or branched chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms or a halogen atom ii n is aninteger of 1,2 or 3 and R is a hydroxy group or iii n is an integer of 2 and two R3s are a hydroxy group and a nitro group, a hydroxy group and a straight or branched chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms, or a hydroxy group and a halogen atom, such groups being at o position or p position to each other, and the other symbols are as hereinbefore defined . The reduction can be carried out, for example, by using hydrogen gas in the presence of a catalyst such as nickel, platinum or palladium carbon, by using iron, zinc, tin or stannous chloride in addition to hydrochloric acid, by using titanium trichloride in the presence of benzene or a mixture of benzene and tetrahydrofuran, by using sodium sulfide or ammonium sulfide in water or an aqueous alcohol, or by using sodium hydrosulfite in ammonia water etc. Compounds of the general formula lila may be prepared by the series of reactions depicted schematically below in Scheme B. SCHEME B EMI17.1 In Schema E, R4 n represents that 4 i n is an integer of 1, 2 or 3 and R , which may be the same or different, is a hydrogen atom, a straight or branched chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms or a halogen atom 4 ii n is an integer of 1, 2 or 3 and R is a hydroxy group or iS n is an integer of 2 and two R4s are a hydroxy group and a straight or branched chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms, or a hydroxy group and a halogen atom, such groups being at o position or p position to each other, and R5 n represents that i n is an integer of 1, 2 or 3 and R5, which may be the same or different, is a hydrogen atom a straight or branched chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms or a halogen atom ii n is an integer of 1, 2 or 3 and R5 is a methoxy group or ill n is an integer of 2 and two R5s are a methoxy group and a straight or branched chain alkyl group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms, or a methoxy group and a halogen atom, such groups being at position or p position to each other, and the other symbols are as hereinbefore defined. Explaining each step in Scheme B, step a is Friedel Crafts type sulfonation of compounds of the general formula VII with a compound of the formula VIII , or of a compound of the formula LY with compounds of the general formula X . Step a may be carried out using a sulfonating reagent such as sulfonyl halide or acid anhydride, in the presence of a catalyst, e.g. aluminium chloride or ferric chloride in an inert organic solvent, e.g. carbon disulfide, tetrahydrofuran, methylene chloride or 1,2 dichloroethane, at a temperature of from 0 C to 500C generally preferably at room temperature . Step b is the hydrolysis of the methoxy group and R5 s , when at least one R5 represents a methoxy group to hydroxy group s , and may be carried out by using a hydrohalogenated acid such as hydrobromic acid and or hydroiodic acid. Compounds of the general formula V can be prepared directly by effecting step a without effecting step b by varying reaction conditions or starting materials of step a . Step c is the reduction of a sulfonyl group to a thio group, and may be carried out by using a reductant such as diisobutylaluminium hydride DIBAL . Step d is the nitration, and may be carried out by using a conventional nitrating reagent, for example, a mixture of nitric acid and sulfuric acid, a mixture of nitric acid and sulfuric acid in acetic acid, or nitric acid in acetic acid. Step e is the oxidation of a thio group to a sulfinyl group, and may be carried out by using m chloroperbenzoic acid MCPBA . The compounds of the general formulae VII and X , and the compounds of the formulae VIII and IX are well known per se or may be prepared by methods known per se. For example, 1,3,5 trimethylbenzene and tert butylbenzene compounds of the general formula VII , anisole compound of the general formula VII or compound of the formula IX , 4 methoxybenzenesulfonyl chloride compound of the formula VIII and compound of the general formula CX and benzenesulfonyl chloride, 4 chlorobenzenesulfonyl chloride and p toluenesulfonyl chloride compounds of the general formula CX are compounds on the market. Compounds of the general formula lib may be prepared by the nitration of compounds of the general formula EMI20.1 wherein the various symbols are as hereinbefore defined . The nitration may be carried out by methods hereinbefore described for step d inScheme B. Compounds of the general formula XI may be prepared by the reaction of a compound of the formula EMI20.2 with compounds of the general formula EMI21.1 wherein the various symbols are as hereinbefore defined . Compounds of the general formula XIII may be prepared from compounds of the general formula EMI21.2 wherein the various symbols are as hereinbefore defined . Methods for the conversion of compounds of the general formula XIV into compounds of the general formula XIII and methods for the reaction of a compound of the formula XII with compounds of the general formula XIII are described in the Journal of theOrganic Chemistry J. Org. Chem. , 28, 3313 1963 in detail. The compound of the formula XII and the compounds of the general formula XIV are well known per se or may be prepared by methods known per se. For Example, p iodophenol of the compound of the formula XII ,and phenylacetylene, of compounds of the general formula XIV are compounds on the market. Compounds of the general formula IIIc may be prepared by the hydrolysis under alkaline conditions of compounds of the general formula EMI22.1 wherein the various symbols are as hereinbefore defined . The hydrolysis under alkaline conditions may be effected with an aqueous solution of an alkali metal, e.g. sodium or potassium, hydroxide or carbonate in the presence of a water miscible solvent, e.g. tetrahydrofuran or a lower alkanol such as methanol or ethanol. Compounds of the general formula XV may be prepared by the reaction of a compound of the formula EMI22.2 with compounds of the general formula EMI22.3 wherein the various symbols are as hereinbefore defined . The reaction may, generally, be carried out in an inert organic solvent such as methylene chloride in the presence of a base such as triethylamine at a temperature of from 70 C to OOC. The compound of the formula XVI and the compounds of the general formula XVII are well known per se or may be prepared by methods known per se. For example, 4 amino 2 nitrophenol of the compound of the formula XVI , and p chlorobenzoyl chloride and benzoyl chloride, of the compounds of the general formula XVII are compounds on the market. Compounds of the general formula IIId may be prepared by the ring closure by reacting a compound of the formulaEMI23.1 with compounds of the general formula EMI23.2 wherein the various symbols are as hereinbefore defined . The ring closure reaction are described in the Journal of the American Chemical Society J. Am. Chem. Soc. , 53, 2654 1931 , Chemical Abstracts, 52, 13094f 1958 and Antibiotics and Chemiotherapy, 8, 33 1958 in detail. The compound of the formula CXVIII and the compounds of the general formula XIX are well known per se or may be prepared by methods known per se. For example, 4 hydroxy 3 nitrobenzaldehyde of the compound of the formula XVIII , and 2 aminobenzenethiol, of the compounds of the general formula XIX are compounds on the market. Acid addition salts of 2 aminophenol derivatives of the general formula I may be prepared from the compounds of the general formula I by methods known per se, for example, by reacting stoichiometric quantities of a compound of the general formula I and an appropriate acid, e.g. an inorganic acid such as hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, hydroiodic acid, sulfuric acid, phosphoric acid or nitric acid, or an organic acid such as acetic acid, lactic acid, tartric acid, benzoic acid, citric acid, methanesulphonic acid, ethanesulphonic acid, benzenesulphonic acid, toluenesulphonic acid or isethionic acid, in a suitable solvent. Preferably, acid addition salts are non toxic salts. By the term non toxic as used in this specification, is meant salts the anions of which are relatively innocuous to animal organism when used in therapeutic doses so that the benefitical pharmacological properties of the compounds of general formula I are not vitiated by side effects ascribable to those anions. Preferably the salts are water soluble.Suitable acid addition salts are, for example, inorganic acid salts such as hydrochloride, hydrobromide, hydroiodide, sulfate, phosphorate, nitrate, or organic acid salts such as acetate, lactate, tartrate, benzoate, citrate, methanesulphonate, ethanesulphonate, benzenesulphonate, toluenesulphonate or isethionate. 2 Aminophenol derivatives of the general formula I and their pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts possess an inhibitory effect on 5 lipoxygenase specifically, or 5 lipoxygenase and cyclooxygenase at the same time, and therefore, are effective when it is desired to control the biosynthesis of leukotrienes and various PGs in mammals including human, especially human. For example, in standard assay system using polymorphonuclear leukocytes from guinea pig details of experiments were described hereafter , a the concentrations of 2 amino 4 4 methylphenylthio phenol hydrochloride for 50 inhibitions on 5 lipoxygenase and on cyclooxygenase were 0.2 VM and 0.3 pM, respectively, b the concentrations of 2 amino 4 phenylthiophenol hydrochloride for 50 inhibitions on 5lipoxygenase and on cyclooxygenase were 0.1 pM and 0.3 pM, respectively and c the concentrations of 2 amino 4 4 chlorophenylthio phenol hydrochloride for 50 inhibitions on 5 lipoxygenase and on cyclooxy genase were 0.5 pM and 0.3 pM, respectively.Therefore, it is comfirmed that these compounds tea , b and c inhibit both 5 lipoxygenase and cyclooxygenase at the same time at very low concentrations. The experiments for screening using polymorphonuclear leukocytes were carried out as follos The reaction mixture 0.1 ml containing 5 pmole of potassium phosphate at pH 7.4, 0.1 pmole of calcium chloride, polymorphonuclear leukocytes prepared from guinea pigs 4 x 10 cells and test compound, was preincubated for 5 minutes at 37 CC. The reaction was started by the addition of 4C arachidonic acid 2.2 x 10 dpm, 1.8 nmole , followed by the incubation at 370C for 5 minutes. The reaction was terminated by the addition of 0.3 ml of a mixture of ether methanol lM citric acid 30 4 1 . The organic phase 20 p1 was applied to silica gel plate.Thin layer chromatography was performed to separate each product with solvent system of ether petroleum ether acetic acid 85 15 0.1 . Activity of 5 lipoxygenase and cyclooxygenase were calculated from the measurements of the production of 5 HETE, and 12L hydroxy 5,8,10 heptatrienoic acid ie. lET or thromboxane B2 i.e. TKB2 , respectively tit has been known that HHT and TXB are the last products of the system concerning cyclooxygenase in the arachidonate cascade .The concentrations for 50 inhibitions on 5 lipoxygenase and on cyclooxygenase were evaluated by using the concentrations of compounds of the present invention required 50 inhibitions on the productions of 5 HETE, and HHT or TXB2, respectively. Further, in another assay system evaluating only the inhibitory activity on 5 lipoxygenase using polymorphonuclear leukocytes from guinea pig details of experiments were described hereafter , the concentrations of 2 amino 4 phenylthiophenol hydrochloride, 2 amino4 4 methylphenylthio phenol hydrochloride, 2 amino 4 4 chlorophenyl thio phenol hydrochloride, 2 amino 4 C4 hydroxyphenylthio phenol, 2 amino 4 3 amino 4 hydroxyphenylthio phenol, 2 amino 4 2,4,6 trimethylphenylthio phenol hydrochloride, 2 amino 4 4 tert butyl phenylthio phenol hydrochloride, 2 amino 4 benzenesulfinylphenol,N 3 amino 4 hydroxyphenyl benzamide hydrochloride, 2 amino 4 2 benzothiazolyl phenol hydrochloride and 2 amino 4 phenylethynylphenol, required to produce 50 inhibitions on 5 lipoxygenase, were 0.31, 0.20, 0.30, 0.46, 1.5, 0.48, 0.32, 11, 18, 0.23 and 0.69 I, respectively. Therefore, it is confirmed that all these compounds inhibit 5 lipoxy genase at very low concentrations. The experiments for evaluating only the inhibitory activity on 5 lipoxygenase were carried out as follows Guinea pig was treated by casein and harvested polymorphonuclear leukocytes from cavity were sonicated, followed by the centrifugation at 105,000 x g. The supernate was used as an enzyme throughout this work. The supernate 100 500 Vg of protein was incubated for 5 minutes at 30 C with 14C arachidonic acid and 1 mM calcium chloride in the presence or in the absence of test compound. The reaction was terminated by the addition of ether.Ether extract was separated by thin layer chromatography using silica gel plates to observe production of 5 HETE, 5,12 diHETE and leukotriene B.In this assay system, the concentrations for 50 inhibitions on 5lipoxygenase were evaluated by using the concentrations of compounds of the present invention required 50 inhibitions on the production of 5 HETE, 5,12 diHETE and leukotrien B. On the other hand, all extent of the compounds of the present invention were confirmed that their acute toxicities were more than 30 mg kg by intravenous administration. Therefore, 2 aminophenol derivatives of the present invention may be considered to be sufficiently safe and suitable for medical use. For example, no mouse was dead when 2 amino 4 phenylthiophenol hydrochloride, 2 amino 4 4 methylphenylthio phenol hydrochloride, 2 amino 4 2 benzothiazolyl phenol hydrochloride and 2 amino 4 phenylethynylphenol were intravenously administered to tail vein in ten mice at the dose of 30 mg kg, respectively. To control the biosynthesis of leukotrienes and prostaglandins are useful for the prevention and the treatment of allergic tracheal and bronchial diseases or allergic lung diseases, allergic shocks or various allergic inflammations, in addition to various inflammations induced by prostaglandins in mammals including human, especially human. For such purpose, the compounds of this invention are usually administered systemically, for example, orally, rectally or parenterally.Doses are determined depending upon age, symptoms, the desired therapeutic effects, the route of administration, the duration of the treatment and the like, and are generally and preferably about 0.1 mg to 500 mg for oral administration, and 1 Vg to 10 mg for intravenous injection or 0.1 Vg to 1 mg hour for intravenous infusion, specially when required emergency treatment. Solid compositions for oral administration include compressed tablets, pills, dispersible powders and granules. In such solid compositions, one or more of the active compounds is or are, admixed with at least one inert diluent such as calcium carbonate, potato starch, dextrin, alginic acid, lactose, mannitol, glucose and cacao butter. The compositions may also comprise, as is normal practice, additional substances other than inert diluents e.g. lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate or disintegrating agents such as cellulose calcium gluconate. The tablets or pill may, if desired, be coated and made into sugar coated, gelatin coated, enteric coated or film coated tablets and pills, or tablets or pills may be coated with two or more layers. Liquid compositions for oral administration include pharmaceutically acceptable emulsions, solutions, suspensions, syrups and elisirs containing inert diluents commonly used in the art, such as water or liquid paraffin. Besides inert diluents such compositions may also comprise adjuvants such as wetting and suspending agents, and sweetening, flavouring, perfuming and preservating agents. The compositions according to this invention for oral administration, also include capsules of absorbable materials such as gelatin containing one or more of the active substances with or without the addition of diluents or excipients. Solid compositions for intrarectal administration include suppositories formulated in manner known per se and containing one or more of the active compounds. Preparation according to this invention for parenteral administration include sterile aqueous or non aqueous solutions, suspensions or emulsions. Examples of non aqueous solvents or suspending media are propylene glycol, polyethylene glycol, ethanol, vegetable oils such as olive oil, and injectable organic esters such as ethyl oleate or sorbitan esters. These compositions may also include adjuvants such as preserving, wetting, emulsifying and dispersing agents. They may be sterilized, for example, by filtration through a bacteria retaining filter, by incorporation of sterilizing agents in the compositions or by irradiation. They may also be manufactured in the form of sterile solid compositions which can be dissolved in sterile water or some other sterile injectable medium immediately before use. The percentage of active ingredient in the compositions of the present invention may be varied, it being necessary that it should constitute a proportion such that a suitable dosage for the desired therapeutic effect shall be obtained. Several unit dosage forms nay of course be administered at the same time. In general the preparations should normally contain at least 0.025 by weight of active substance when required for administration by injection and the preparations should normally contain at least 0.1 by weight of active substance when required for oral administration. Preferred compounds of the present invention are, for example, as follows a as compounds of the general formula Ia 2 amino 4 phenylthiophenol, 2 amino 4 4 methylphenylthio phenol, 2 amino 4 4 ethylphenylthio phenol, 2 amino 4 4 propylphenylthio phenol, 2 amino 4 4 butylphenylthio phenol, 2 amino 4 4 tert butylphenylthio phenol, 2 amino 4 4 pentylphenylthio phenol, 2 amino 4 4 hexylphenylthio phenol, 2 amino 4 2,4, 6 trimethylphenylthio phenol, 2 amino 4 4 fluorphenylthio phenol, 2 amino 4 4 chlorphenylthio phenol, 2 amino 4 4 bromophenylthio phenol, 2 amino 4 4 iododphenylthio phenol, 2 amino 4 4 hydroxyphenylthio phenol, 2 amino 4 3 amino 4 hydroxyphenylthio phenol, 2 amino 4 benzenesulfinylphenol, 2 amino 4 3 methylbenzenesulfinylthio phenol, 2 amino 4 4 ethylbenzenesulfinyl phenol 2 amino 4 C4 propylbenzenesulfinyl phenol, 2 amino 4 4 butylbenezenesulfinyl phenol, 2 amino 4 4 tert butylbenezenesulfinyl phenol, 2 amino 4 4 pentylbenzenesulfinyl phenol, 2 amino 4 4 hexylbenzenesulfinyl phenol, 2 amino 4 2,4,6 trimethylbenezenesulfinyl phenol, 2 amino 4 4 fluorobenezenesulfinyl phenol, 2 amino 4 4 chlorobenzenesulfinyl phenol, 2 amino 4 4 bromobenzenesulfinyl phenol, 2 amino 4 4 iodobenzenesulfinyl phenol, 2 amino 4 4 hydroxybenezenesulfinyl phenol, 2 amino 4 3 amino 4 hydroxybenzenesulfinyl phenol, and acid addition salts thereof b as compounds of the general formula Ib 2 amino 4 phenylethynylphenol 2 amino 4 4 methylphenylethynyl phenol, 2 amino 4 4 ethylphenylethynyl phenol, 2 amino 4 4 propylphenylethynyl phenol, 2 amino 4 4 butylphenylethynyl phenol, 2 amino 4 4 tert butylphenylethynyl phenol, 2 amino 4 4 pentylphenylethynyl phenol, 2 amino 4 4 hexylphenylethynyl phenol, 2 amino 4 4 fluorophenylethynyl phenol, 2 amino 4 4 chlorophenylethynyl phenol, 2 amino 4 4 bromophenylethynyl phenol, 2 amino 4 4 iodophenylethynyl phenol, and acid addition salts thereof c as compounds of the general formula Ic N 3 amino 4 hydroxyphenyl benzamide, N 3 amino 4 hydroxyphenyl 4 methylbenzamide,N 3 amino 4 hydroxyphenyl 4 ethylbenzamid e, N 3 amino 4 hydroxyphenyl 4 propylbenzamide, N 3 amino 4 hydroxyphenyl 4 butylbenzamide, N 3 amino 4 hydroxyphenyl 4 tert butylbenzamide,N 3 amino 4 hydroxyphenyl 4 pentylbenzamide,N 3 amino 4 hydroxyphenyl 4 hexylbenzamide, N 3 amino 4 hydroxyphenyl 4 fluorobenzamide, N 3 amino 4 hydroxyphenyl 4 chlorobenzamide,N 3 amino 4 hydroxyphenyl 4 bromobenzamide,N 3 amino 4 hydroxyphenyl 4 iodobenzamide, and acid addition salts thereof and d as compounds of the general formula Id 2 amino 4 2 benzothiazolyi phenol, 2 amino 4 2 5 methylbenzothyazolyl phenol, 2 amino 4 2 6 methylbenzothiazolyl phenol, 2 amino 4 2 5 ethylbenzothyazolyl phenol, 2 amino 4 2 6 ethylbenzothyazolyl phenol, 2 amino 4 2 5 propylbenzothyazolyl phenol, 2 amino 4 2 6 propylbenzothyazolyl phenol, 2 amino 4 2 5 butylbenzothyazolyl phenol, 2 amino 4 2 6 butylbenzothyazolyl phenol, 2 amino 4 2 5 butylbenzothyazolyl phenol, 2 amino 4 2 6 tert butylbenzothyazolyl phenol, 2 amino 4 2 5 pentylbenzothyazolyl phenol, 2 amino 4 2 6 pentylbenzothyazolyl phenol, 2 amino 4 2 5 hexylbenzothyazolyl phenol, 2 amino 4 2 6 hexylbenzothyazolyl phenol, 2 amino 4 2 5 fluorbenzothyazolyl phenol, 2 amino 4 2 6 fluorbenzothyazolyl phenol, 2 amino 4 2 5 chlorobenzothyazolyl phenol, 2 amino 4 2 6 chlorobenzothyazolyl phenol, 2 amino 4 2 5 bromobenzothyazolyl phenol, 2 amino 4 2 6 bromobenzothyazolyl phenol, 2 amino 4 2 5 iodobenzothyazolyl phenol, 2 amino 4 2 6 iodobenzothyazolyl phenol, and acid addition salts thereof. The following Reference Examples and Examples illustrate, but not limit, the preparation of compounds of the present invention.In the Reference Examples and Examples, TLC , IR , NMR and Mass represent Thin layer chromatography , Infrared absorption spectrum , Nuclear magnetic resonance and Mass spectrum , respectively. Where solvent ratios are specified in chromatographic separations, the ratios are by volume. The solvents in parentheses in TLC show the developing solvent used. Except when specified otherwise, IR is recorded by K3r tablet method and SlAR is recorded in deuterochloroform CDCl3 solution.Reference Example 1 4 Benzenesulfonyl anisole 14 g of aluminium chloride was finely crushed and dispersed in 50 ml of l,2 dichloroethane, and 14.7 g of benzenesulfonyl chloride being on the market was added thereto. The mixture was stirred for 15 minutes at room temperature. To the reaction mixture, 10 g of anisole in 50 ml of 1,2 dichloroethane was added dropwise over a period of 30 minutes. The mixture was stirred for 110 hours at room temperature.The reaction mixture was poured into ice hydrochloric acid and extracted with chloroform. The extract was washed with water and a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride, successively, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel using benzene as an eluent to give 9.2 g of the title compound containing para isomer in part having the following physical characteristics Melting point 125 1350C TLC benzene ethyl acetate 2 1 Rf 0.25 NMR 6 7.77 2H, m , 7.62 2H, d , 7.35 C3H, m , 6.83 2H, d Mass m e 248 M , 155, 123, 107, 95, 92, 77. By the same procedure as described in Reference Example 1, the compounds having the following physical characteristics were obtained from anisol and the corresponding sulfonyl chloride. a 4 p Toluenesulfonyl anisoleStarting materials 5 g of anisole and 9.7 g of p toluenesulfonyl chloride being on the market Yield 8.5 g containing para isomer in part NMR 6 8.0 6.7 8H, m , 3.70 3R, s , 3.67 C3H, s , 2.40 3E, s , 2.30 3H, s . b 4 4 Chlorobenezenesulfonyl anisoleStarting materials 5 g of anisole and 10.7 g of 4 chlorobenzenesulfonyl chloride being on the market Yield 5 g containing para isomer in part NMR 6 8.1 6.7 C8H, m , 3.75 C3H, s , 3.70 3H, s . c 4 4 Methoxybenzenesulfonyl anisole Starting materials 5 g of anisole and 9.6 g of 4 methoxybenzenesulfonyl chloride being on the market Yield 13 g containing para isomer in part NMR 6 8.2 6.6 C8H, m , 3.6 C6H, s . d 1 4 2,4,6 Trimethylbenzenesulfonyl phenol and 2 4 2,4,6 Trimethylbenzenesulfonyl anisole Starting materials 3.2 g of l,3,5 trimethylbenzene being on the market and 5 g of 4 methoxybenzenesulfonyl chloride being on the market The products 1 and 2 were prepared from the same starting materials 1 Product 1 Yield 2.4 g IR v 3350, 2990, 2940, 1600, 1590, 1500, 1440, 1405, 1385, 1285, 1230, 1130, 1105 shoulder , 1100, 1050, 840, 720, 690 cm 1 NMR deuterochloroform acetone d6 solution d 7.51 2H, d , 6.82 2H, d , 6.81 2B, s , 2.53 6E, s , 2.23 3E, s Mass m e 276 M , 258, 241, 220, 195, 171, 165, 91. 2 Product 2 Yield 4 g Mass m e 290 M , 272, 255, 234, 211, 209, 195, 165, 91. e 4 4 tert Butylbenzenesulfonyl anisole Starting materials 6.5 g of tert butylbenzene being on the market and 5 g of 4 methoxybenzenesulfonyl chloride being on the market Catalyst ferric chloride instead of aluminium chloride Yield 10 g NMR 7.73 2R, d , 7.70 2H, d , 7.35 2H, d , 6.82 2H, d , 3.73 3H, s , 1.3 9H, s Mass m e 304 M , 289, 275, 225, 198, 155, 123, 107, 77.Reference Example 2 4 Benzenesulfonylphenol To 9.2 g of 4 benzenesulfonyl anisole prepared in ReferenceExample 1 was added 100 ml of a 47Z aqueous solution of hydrobromic acid and the mixture was refluxed with heating for 6 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and extracted with diethyl ether.The extract was washed with an aqueous solution of sodium thiosulfate, water and a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride, successively, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude crystal thus obtained 10 g was purified by column chromatography on silica gel using a mixture of benzene ethyl acetate 10 1 as an eluent to give 4 g of the title compound having the following physical characteristics Melting point 141 142 C TLC benzene ethyl acetate 2 1 Ref 0.5 IR 3400, 3070, 1600, 1590, 1500, 1440, 1310, 1290, 1240, 1155, 1110, 850, 740 cm NMR acetone d6 solution d 9.4 1H, br s , 7.9 C2H, m , 7.86 2H, d , 7.6 C3H, m , 7.03 2H, d Mass m e 234 M , 170, 141, 126, 109, 93. By the same procedure as described in Reference Example 2, the phenol compounds having the following physical characteristics were obtained from the corresponding anisole compounds. a 4 p Toluenesulfonyl phenolStarting material 8.5 g of 4 p toluenesulfonyl anisole prepared in Reference Example l a Yield 1.75 g TLC benzene ethyl acetate 10 Rf 0.22 IR v 3380, 3070, 1600, 1585, 1500, 1440, 1305, 1290, 1230, 1145, 1110, 1 1075, 840, 815 cm NMR deuterochloroform acetone d6 solution d 8.4 ClH, br s , 7.60 4H, d , 7.13 C2H, d , 6.83 2H, d , 2.30 3H, s Mass m e 248 M , 141, 140, 139, 109. b 4 4 Chlorobenzenesulfonyl phenol Starting material 5 g of 4 4 chlorobenzenesulfonyl anisole prepared in Reference Example 1 b Yield 2.18 g TLC chloroform Rf 0.15 NMR deuterochloroform acetone d6 solution 8.81 1H, br s , 8.73 2H, d , 7.67 2X, d , 7.37 2B, d , 6.90 2H, d . c 4 4 Hydroxybenzenesulfonyl phenolStarting material 13 g of 4 4 methoxybenzenesulfonyl anisole prepared in Reference Example 1 c Yield 4.4 g TLC benzene ethyl acetate 2 1 Rf 0.2 IR v 3400, 1600, 1585, 1500, 1440, 1370, 1290, 1220, 1180, 1140, 1110, 1075, 1010, 850, 840, 820, 725, 690 cm NMR deuterochloroform methanol d4 acetone d6 solution 6 7.60 4H, d , 6.80 4H, d Mass m 3 250 M , 142, 141, 110, 93. d 4 4 tert Butylbenzenesulfonyl phenolStarting material 10 g of 4 4 tert butylbenzenesulfonyl anisole prepared in Reference Example 1 e Yield 7.1 g IR v 3400, 3060, 2970, 2870, 1600, 1580, 1500, 1475, 1435, 1395, 1365, 1305, 1290, 1220, 1145, 1115, 1095, 1070, 1010, 835, 760 cm 1 NMR 637.68 C2H, d , 7.63 C2H, d , 7.35 2H, d , 6.80 211, d , 1.27 9E, s Mass mle 290 M , 275, 261, 211, 181, 166, 157, 141, 135.Reference Example 3 4 Phenylthiophenol A solution of 1.7 g of 4 benzenesulfonylphenol prepared inReference Example 2 in 10 ml of toluene was cooled under ice and thereto was added slowly 29 ml of a 1.76N solution of diisobutylaluminium hydride DIBAL . After the completion of the evolution of hydrogen gas, the mixture was refluxed with heating for 24 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled under ice and to the solution was added water to decompose excess amount of DIBAL. The reaction mixture was adjusted to pH 4 with 6N hydrochloric acid and extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was washed with a saturated aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate and a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride, successively, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel using a mixture of benzene ethyl acetate 10 1 as an eluent to give 900 mg of the title compound having the following physical characteristics TLC benzene ethyl acetate 10 1 Rf 0.48.IR liquid film v 3400, 3050, 1600, 1580, 1490, 1475, 1435, 1170, l 830, 740, 690 cm NMR CC14 solution 6 7.28 2H, d , 7.1 5H, m , 6.72 C2H, d , 5.03 1H, s Mass m es202 M , 183, 173, 141, 125, 115. By the same procedure as described in Reference Example 3, the thio compounds having the following physical characteristics were obtained from the corresponding sulfonyl compounds. a 4 4 Methylphenylthio phenolStarting material 1.75 g of 4 p toluenesulfonyl phenol prepared in Reference Example 2 a Yield. 1.5 g TLC chloroforn ethyl acetate 5 l Rf 0.8 NMR 7.20 2H, d , 7.01 C4H, s , 6.70 2H, d , 2.27 3E, s Mass m e 216 M , 201, 183, 171, 155, 91. b 4 4 Ch1Orophenylthio phenol Starting material 2.18 g of 4 4 chlorobenzenesulfonyl phenol prepared in Reference Example 2 b Yield 1.28 g TLC chloroform Rf 0,2 IR v 3350, 1595 shoulder , 1585, 1490, 1480, 1435, 1390, 1215, 1170, 1100, 1010, 820 cm 1NMR 6 7.25 2H, d , 7.05 4H, m , 6.72 2H, d Mass m e 204, 201, 200, 183, 175, 171, 125. c 4 4 Hydroxyphenylthio phenol Starting material 2 g of 4 4 hydroxybenzenesulfonyl phenol prepared in Reference Example 2 c Yield 1 g IR 3290, 1600 shoulder , 1585, 1490, 1440, 1380, 1235, 1170, 1100, 1010, 810 cm 1 NMR deuterochloroform acetone d6 solution d 7.05 4H, d , 6.72 4H, d Mass m e 218 M , 126. d 4 2,4,6 Trimethylphenylthio phenolStarting material 2 g of 4 2,4,6 trimethylbenzenesulfonyl phenol prepared in Reference Example l d l Yield 1.94 g IR liquid film v13320, 3030, 2920, 1600, 1585, 1490, 1460, 1435, 1380, 1240, 1170, 1080, 1060, 1030, 1010, 850, 825 cm 1 NMR d 7.2 6.5 6H, m , 2.3 6H, s , 2.2 C3H, s Mass m e 244 M , 152, 150, 119, 91. e 4 4 tert Butylphenylthio phenolStarting material 2.2 g of 4 4 tert butylbenzenesulfonyl phenol prepared in Reference Example 2 d Yield 1.6 g IR liquid film v 3400, 2960, 1595, 1580, 1490, 1425, 1395, 1360, 1270, 1230, 1165, 1120, 1095, 1010, 965, 820 cm NMR 6 7.4 7.0 6H, m , 6.67 2H, d , 1.33 9H, s Mass m ea258 M . 243, 236, 227, 221, 166, 151, 123, 94.Reference Example 4 2 Nitro 4 phenylthiophenol To a solution of 1.7 g of 4 phenylthiophenol prepared in Reference Example 3 in 5 ml of acetic acid, was added 0.79 g of concentrated nitric acid over a period of 15 minutes cooling under ice.After the removal of ice bath, the mixture was stirred for 30 minutes at room temperature and extracted with chloroform. The extract was washed with a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure.The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel using a mixture of benzene hexane 1 1 as an eluent to give 800 mg of the title compound having the following physical characteristics TLC benzene hexane l l Rf O.37 IR liquid film v13250, 3080, 1615, 1575, 1530, 1475, 1440, 1415, 1315, 1245, 1185, 1145, 1100, 1070, 1025, 895, 830 cm NMR 10.38 lH, s , 7.99 1E, d , 7.30 1E, dd , 7.2 5X, m , 6.97 1E, d Mass m e 247 M . 201, 183, 171, 139, 128, 115, 109, 95. By the same procedure as described in Reference Example 4, the nitro compounds having the following physical characteristics were obtained from the corresponding thio compounds. a 4 4 Methylphenylthio 2 nitrophenolStarting material 1.5 g of 4 4 methylphenylthio phenol prepared in Reference Example 3 a Yield 740 mg red crystal TLC benzene Rf 0.6 IR v 3450, 3180, 3090, 2920, 1625, 1575, 1515, 1475, 1410, 1315, 1230, 1180, 1145, 895, 835, 815 cm NMR 10.54 1H, s , 8.05 1H, d , 7.48 1H, dd , 7.2 4H, m , 7.17 1H, d , 2.35 C3H, s Mass m e 261 M , 215, 200, 185, 171, 123, 91. b 4 4 Chlorophenylthio 2 nitrophenol Starting material 1.28 g of 4 4 chlorophenylthio phenol prepared in Reference Example 3 b Yield 800 mg TLC benzene Rf 0.7 IR v 3420, 3220, 3070, 1615, 1570, 1525, 1470, 1410, 1305, 1235, 1180, 1140, 1090, 1010, 830 cm 1 NMR d 10.43 C1H, s , 8.03 1H, d , 7.42 1H, dd , 7.15 4H, s , 7.05 C1H, d Mass m e 281, 235, 200, 171. c 1 4 4 Hydroxyphenylthio 2 nitrophenol and 2 4 4 Hydroxy 3 nitrophenylthio 2 nitrophenol Starting material 1.0 g of 4 4 hydroxyphenylthio phenol prepared in Reference Example 3 c 1 Product I Yield 210 mg TLC benzene ethyl acetate 10 1 Rf 0.33 IR 3460, 1615, 1595, 1580, 1525, 1490, 1470, 1425, 1410, 1310, 1270, 1235, 1210, 1145, 1095, 1010, 950, 895, 850, 830, 760, 720 cmNMR deuterochloroform methanol d4 solution 637.71 C1H, d , 7.4 6.8 6H, m Mass m e 263 M , 217, 199, 187, 171, 155, 125. 2 Product 2 Yield 120 mg TLC benzene ethyl acetate 10 1 Rf 0.52 IR 3450, 3280, 1610, 1570, 1525, 1470, 1410, 1355, 1320, 1255, 1180, 1100, 900, 835, 820, 770 cm NMR deuterochloroform methanol d4 solution 8.0 2R, d , 7.50 2X, dd , 7.07 2H, d Mass m e 308 M , 262, 233, 214, 196, 170, 158, 123, 115, 95. d 2 Nitro 4 2,4, 6 trimethylphenylthio phenol Starting material 1.9 g of 4 2,4,6 trimethylphenylthio phenol prepared in Reference Example 3 d Yield 600 mg IR v 3280, 3070, 2970, 2920, 1610, 1565, 1525, 1470, 1410, 1360, 1315, 1250, 1165, 1140, 1100, 845, 760, 710 cm 1 NMR 6 10.17 1H, s , 7.50 1H, d , 7.07 1H, dd , 6.90 2H, s , 6.85 1H, d , 2.33 6H, s , 2.28 3H, s Mass m e 289 M , 228, 213, 199, 150, 119, 105, 91. e 4 4 tert Butylphenylthio 2 nitrophenol Starting material 1.6 g of 4 4 tert butylphenylthio phenol prepared in Reference Example 3 e Yield 707 mg IR liquid film v 3240, 3070, 2960, 1615, 1570, 1525, 1470, 1410, 1360, 1315, 1240, 1180, 1140, 1115, 1010, 895, 820, 760 cm 1 NMR 10.37 1H, s , 7.98 1H, d , 7.42 1H, dd , 7.20 4H, s , 6.97 1H, d , 1.30 9H, s Mass m e 303 M , 288, 274, 260, 242, 224, 213, 199, 184, 170, 165, 144, 130, 117. 91. Reference Example 5 4 Ben2enesulfinyl 2 nitrophenol A solution of 460 mg of 2 nitro 4 phenylthiophenol prepared in Reference Example 4 in 10 ml of methylene chloride was cooled to 720C. To the solution was added dropwise over a period of 20 minutes a solution of 402 mg of m chloroperbenzoic acid MCPBA, 80 in 20 ml of methylene chloride cooled in 50 C. The mixture was reacted for 30 minutes at 72 C and a saturated aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate was added thereto. After the removal of ice bath, the reaction mixture was poured into a separatory funnel, and the organic layer was dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure.The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel using a mixture of chloroform ethyl acetate 5 1 as an eluent to give 215 mg of the title compound having the following physical characteristics IR liquid film van3260, 3070, 1615, 1580, 1530, 1475, 1440, 1420, 1325, 1255, 1190, 1160, 1100, 1085, 1045, 900, l 835 cm NMR 6 10.17 1H, br s , 8.33 lH, d , 7.61 1H, dd , 7.4 5H, m , 7.12 1H, d Mass m e 263 M , 247, 215, 186, 170, 154, 125, 110, 94.Reference Example 6 N 4 Benzoyloxy 3 nitrophenyl benzamide To a solution of 1.26 g of 4 amino 2 nitrophenol being on the market in 43 ml of methylene chloride was added 2.1 g of triethylamine and the mixture was cooled to 50 C. To the mixture was added dropwise 3.0 g of benzoyl chloride and the mixture was stirred for 30 minutes at 500C, and further for 15 hours at room temperature.The reaction mixture was extracted with chloroform and the extract was washed with an aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate and a saturated aqueous solution of sodium carbonate, successively, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel using methylene chloride as an eluent to give 500 mg of the title compound having the following physical characteristics NMR deuterochloroform acetone d6 solution 6 7.9 5E, m , 7.35 8K, m Mass m e 362 , 258, 228, 105, 77.Reference Example 7 N 4 Hydroxy 3 nitrophenyl benzamide To a solution of 500 mg of N 4 benzoyloxy 3 nitrophenyl benzamide prepared in Reference Example 6 in 50 ml of ethanol was added 30 ml of a IN aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide at room temperature and the mixture was stirred for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was neutralized with 1.8 ml of acetic acid and concentrated under reduced pressure. To the residue thus obtained were added chloroform and water and the mixture was extracted. The extract the organic layer was washed with a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure.The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel using chloroform as an eluent and recrystallized from ethanol to give 96 mg of the title compound having the following physical characteristics TLC methylene chloride methanol 10 1 Rf 0.75 IR v 3450, 2920, 1650, 1630 shoulder , 1520, 1480, 1410, 1340, 1310, l 1235, 1070, 870, 760, 710 cm NMR deuterochloroform acetone d6 solution 6w10.30 1H, s , 9.07 1R, br s , 8.45 IH, d , 7.95 1H, dd , 7.83 2H, m , 7.40 3H, m , 7.10 1H, d Mass m e 258 M , 153, 105, 77.Reference Examole 8 4 2 Benzothiazolyl 2 nitrophenol A solution of 653 mg of 4 hydroxy 3 nitrobenzaldehyde being on the market and 489 mg of 2 aminobenzenethiol being on the market in 5 ml of pyridine was refluxed with heating for 3 hours. After cooled with water, the reaction mixture was adjusted to pH 5 by adding 20 ml of a 20Z aqueous solution of hydrochloric acid and 0.5 ml of concentrated hydrochloric acid, successively. Further stirring led to the precipitation of gummy substance. The supernatant solution was removed by decantation and to the residue was added 20 ml of n butyl alcohol and the solution was refluxed with heating for 30 minutes with blowing air.After cooling, the presipitating pale yellow solid was collected and dried to give 396 mg of the title compound having the following physical characteristics TLC methylene chloride Rf 0.68 IR v 1623, 1540, 1475, 1322, 1275, 1182, 762 cm NMR dimethylsulfoxide d6 deuterochloroform solution d 8.61 1H, d , 8.23 1H, dd , 8.04 2H, m , 7.58 7.40 2H, m , 7.33 1H, d Mass m e 272 M , 226, 197.Reference Example 9Cupper phenylacetylide Under an atmosphere of nitrogen, to a solution of 5 g of cupric sulfate pentahydrate in 20 ml of a concentrated ammonia water was added 80 ml of water and 2.78 g of hydroxJramine hydrochloride.To the obtained solution, its temperature kept constantly at 200 C, a solution of 2.2 ml of phenylacetylene being on the market in 100 ml of ethanol was added dropwise slowly to precipitate instantly yellow crystal. Further, the solution was stirred for 30 minutes under cooling with ice water. The precipitated crystal thus obtained was filtered off, washed with water, ethanol and diethyl ether, successively, and dried by vacuum pump to give 2.73 g of the title compound. Reference Example 10 4 Phenylethynylpheno1 Under an atmosphere of nitrogen, 25 ml of pyridine was refluxed with heating for 18 hours in order to degas. To pyridine thus obtained was added 510 mg of cupper phenylacetylide prepared in Reference Example 9 and 600 mg of 4 iodophenol being on the market . The mixture was refluxed with heating for 7 hours. The reaction mixture was poured into ice water and extracted cith diethyl ether. The extract was washed with water, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure.The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel using a mixture of cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 as an eluent to give 139 mg of the title compound having the following physical characteristics TLC cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 Rf 0.22 IR liquid film 3350, 2200, 1700, 1600, 1585, 1500, 1260, 1215 cm NMR d 6.5 7.7 10H, m Mass m e 194 M .Reference Example 11 2 Nitro 4 phenylethynylphenol By the same procedure as described in Reference Example 4, 48 mg of the title compound having the following physical characteristics was obtained using 114 mg of 4 phenylethynylphenol prepared in ReferenceExample 10 instead of 4 phenylthiophenol.TLC cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 Rf 0.45 IR 1620, 1530, 1490, 1320, 1240, 1180, 760, 680 cm NMR d 10.68 1H, s , 8.31 1H, d , 7.8 7.7 1H, m , 7.7 7.5 2H, m , 7.5 7.3 3H, m , 7.18 1H, d Mass m e 239 M .Example I 2 Amino 4 phenylthiophenol hydrochloride A mixture of 530 mg of 2 nitro 4 phenylthiophenol prepared in Reference Example 4 and 9.8 ml of a 20 aqueous solution of titanium trichloride was stirred for 3 days at room temperature. After the completion of the reaction, a mixture of an ammonia water and chloroform was added to the reaction mixture and the mixture was extracted. The extract the organic layer was washed with a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel using a mixture of methylene chloride methanol 10 1 to give the title compound as free amine. The compound was dissolved in methanol and to the solution was added a mixture of dry hydrogen chloride and ethanol to give the title compound as salt.The crude crystal thus obtained was treated with activated carbon and concentrated under reduced pressure to give 170 mg of the title compound having the following physical characteristics Melting point more than 1500C decomposed TLC methylene chloride methanol ammonia water 60 6 1 Ref 0 .19 IR w 3450, 3170, 2930, 2600, 1625, 1600, 1575, 1500, 1480, 1440, 1425, 1340, 1295, 1235, 1180, 1125, 1100, 1085, 1025, 830, 740, 690 cm NMR methanol d4 solution 6 7.38 2H, m , 7.24 5R, s , 7.05 1R, d Mass m e 217 M , 199, 171, 156. Examole 2 2 Amino 4 4 methylphenylthio phenol hydrochloride To a dispersion liquid of 730 mg of powdered 4 4methylphenylthio 2 nitrophenol prepared in Reference Example 4Ca i in 12 ml of water, 10 ml of a concentrated ammonia water and 2 ml of tetrahydrofuran were added to obtain a homogeneous solution. To the solution was added a solution of 5 g of sodium hydrosulfide in 20 ml of water. After the reaction mixture changed from red to yellow, it was extracted with diethyl ether. The extract was washed with a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure.The crude product thus obtained was dissolved in ethanol and thereto was added 0.2 ml of a concentrated hydrochloric acid and the mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and further dried by vacuum pump. The crude crystal thus obtained was dissolved in ethanol and reprecipitated by adding diethyl ether to give 700 mg of the title compound as crystal having the following physical characteristics Melting point more than 1700C decomposed TLC methylene chloride methanol 10 1 Rf 0.58 IR uP3420, 3150, 2920, 2600, 1625, 1595, 1570, 1490, 1425, 1400, 1340, 1290, 1235, 1180, 1125, 1095, 1090, 1015, 830, 805 cm NMR methanol d4 solution d 7.5 6.9 7H, m , 2.30 3H, s Mass m e 231 M , 213, 199. By the same procedure as described in Example 2, the amino compounds having the following physical characteristics were obtained from the corresponding nitro compounds. a 2 Amino 4 4 chlorophenylthio phenol hydrochlorideStarting material 800 mg of 4 4 chlorophenylthio 2 nitrophenol prepared in Reference Example 4 b Yield 540 mg Melting point 185 1950C decomposed TLC methylene chloride methanol 10 1 Rf 0.61 IR w 3380, 3150, 3050, 2920, 2570, 1625, 1595, 1565, 1530, 1495, 1475, 1420, 1390, 1335, 1290, 1230, 1175, 1125, 1095, 1010, 815 cm 1 NMR methanol d4 solution 6t7.48 1H, d , 7.39 1H, dd , 7.3 7.2 411, m , 7.10 1H, d Mass m e 251, 233, 219, 199, 171. b 2 Amino 4 4 hydroxyphenylthio phenol The final process for preparing hydrochloric acid addition salt was not carried out. Starting material 210 mg of 4 4 hydroxyphenylthio 2 nitrophenol prepared in Reference Example 4 c 1 Yield 30 mg Melting point 161 165 C TLC benzene ethyl acetate 1 1 Rf 0.33 IR v 3400 broad , 1600, 1585, 1505 shoulder , 1495, 1445, 1380, 1280, 1250 broad , 1200, 1175, 1145, 1105, 1010, 930, 890, 820 cm NMR methanol d4 solution 6 7.14 2H, d , 6.73 2H, d , 6.9 6.5 3H, m Mass m e 233 M , 215, 201, 177, 159. c 2 Amino 4 3 amino 4 hydroxyphenylthio phenol The final process for preparing hydrochloric acid addition salt was not carried out. Starting material 120 mg of 4 4 hydroxy 3 nitrophenylthio 2 nitrophenol prepared in Reference Example 4 c 2 Yield 57 mg Melting point 198 Z02 C decomposed TLC benzene ethyl acetate l l Rf 0.24 IR u 3400, 3320, 3100 broad , 1600, 1500, 1440, 1380, 1285, 1200, 1 1155, 1120, 1080, 935, 880, 840, 820, 810 cm NMR methanol d4 acetone d6 solution d 6.74 2H, d , 6.62 2H, d , 6.56 2H, dd Mass m e 248 M , 230, 202, 187, 141, 109, 96. d 2 Amino 4 2,4,6 trimethyphenylthio phenol hydrochlorideStarting material 600 mg of 4 2,4,6 trimethylphenylthio 2 nitrophenol prepared in Reference Example 4 d Yield 400 mg Melting point more than 190 C decomposed TLC methylene chloridemethanol 10 1 Rf 0.52 IR 9 3430, 3180, 2910, 2600, 1630, 1600, 1570, 1495, 1425, 1375, 1335, 1290, 1230, 1180, 1125, 1060, 1030, 850, 825 cm 1 NMR methanol d4 solution 6 7.02 2H, s , 6.89 3H, m , 2.37 6H, s , 2.29 3X, s Mass m e 259, 241, 227, 209, 151, 150, 109. e 2 Amino 4 4 tert butylphenylthio phenol hydrochlorideStarting material 707 mg of 4 4 tert butylphenylthio 2 nitrophenol prepared in Reference Example 4 e Yield 615 mg Melting point 169 175 C decomposed TLC methylene chloride methanol 10 1 Rf 0.55 IR 3450, 2970, 2570, 1625, 1600, 1495, 1425, 1395, 1365, 1295, 1230, 1180, 1120, 1015, 820 cm 1NMR methanol d4 solution 7.5 7.1 C6H, m , 7.02 1H, d , 1.30 C9H, s Mass m e 273, 258, 230, 199, 171, 140, 115, 109, 96. f 2 Amino 4 benzenesulfinylphenol The final process for preparing hydrochloric acid addition salt was not carried out. Starting material 439 mg of 4 benzenesulfinyl 2 nitrophenol prepared in Reference Example 5 Yield 290 mg Melting point 152 1540C TLC methylene chloride methanol 10 1 Rf 0.46 IR 3480, 3370, 3060, 2935, 2760, 1620, 1580, 1510, 1445, 1395, 1290, 1220, 1140, 1085, 1065, 1010, 995, 810, 750, 690 cm NMR deuterochloroform methanol d4 solution 6 7.7 7.3 5H, m , 7.0 6.7 3E, m Mass m e 233 M , 217, 199, 185, 171, 156, 124, 110. g 2 Amino 4 2 benzothiazolyl phenol hydrochlorideStarting material 160 mg of 4 2 benzothiazolyl 2 nitrophenol prepared in Reference Example 8 Yield 108 mg Melting point 196 200oC decomposed TLC methylene chloride ethyl acetate 5 1 Rf 0.35 IR 3420, 2750, 2540, 1610, 1428, 1315, 1300 cm 1 NMR dimethylsulfoxide d6 deuterochloroform solution 6 8.11 lH, d , 8.00 2H, d , 7.90 1H, dd , 7.56 7.38 2H, m , 7.21 1H, d Mass m e 242 M , 213, 186. h 2 Amino 4 phenylethynylphenol The final process for preparing hydrochloric acid addition salt was not carried out. Starting material 41 mg of 2 nitro 4 phenylethynylphenol prepared in Reference Example 11 Yield 14 mg TLC methylene chloride ethyl acetate 4 1 RfO.50 IR 9 3380, 3290, 2200, 1590, 1505, 1280, 1250, 900, 810, 750 cm NMR methanol d4 solution 7.5 7.4 2H, m , 7.4 7.25 3H, m , 6.88 1H, s , 6.77 1H, d , 6.67 1H, d Mass m e 209 M . Example 3N 3 Amino 4 hydroxyphenyl benzamide hydrochloride Under an atmosphere of hydrogen, to a solution of 96 mg of N 4 hydroxy 3 nitrophenyl benzamide prepared in Reference Example 7 in 10 ml of ethanol was added 0.3 ml of chloroform and 50 mg of palladiumcarbon content 10 . The mixture was stirred for 1.5 hours at room temperature. Catalyst was filtered off and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in ethanol and thereto was added 0.2 ml of a concentrated hydrochloric acid.The mixture was treated with activated carbon and concentrated under reduced pressure to give 80 mg of the title compound having the following physical characteristics TLC chloroform methanol ammonia water 60 6 1 Rf 0.17 IR 3400 broad , 3060, 2900 broad , 2580, 1640, 1545, 1510, 1450, 1440, 1295, 1210, 1110, 1075, 1025, 870, 820, 800 shoulder , 710 cm 1 NMR methanol d4 solution 7.89 3H, m , 7.47 4H, m , 6.99 1H, d Mass m e 228, 105, 77. Example 4 5 g of 2 amino 4 phenylthiophenol hydrochloride, 200 mg of cellulose magnesium gluconate disintegrator , 100 mg of magnesium stearate libricating agent and 4.7 g of crystal cellulose were mixed and punched out in a conventional method to obtain 100 tablets containing 50 mg of the active ingredient in one tablet.Example 5 5 g of 2 amino 4 4 methylphenylthio phenol hydrochloride, 200 mg of cellulose magnesium gluconate disintegrator , 100 mg of magnesium stearate libricating agent and 4.7 g of crystal cellulose were mixed and punched out in a conventional method to obtain 100 tablets containing 50 mg of the active ingredient in one tablet.