# Solid state image sensor with high resolution.

## Abstract
There is disclosed a solid state image sensor including an interline transfer charge coupled device IT CCD 10 serving as an area image sensor and a vibrating plate 12 for vibrating or swinging the IT CCD 10 in a plane orthogonal to an incident image light 16 , horizontally 18 , periodically and relatively to the incident image light 16 in a given vibration mode. When the solid stage image sensor 10 is applied for NTSC television system in which one frame is composed of two fields, the IT CCD 10 is vibrated so that it senses an image at different positions during the two fields periods. As a result, a reproduced picture has a resolution which is obtained as if the number of picture elements of the image sensor 10 per se is doubled.

## Claims
Claims 1. A device for sensing an incident light image 16, 181 comprising a solid state image sensing device 10, 50, 190 including sensing means 32 for receiving radiation 16, 181 representing image information and for generating and storing charges corresponding to the radiation 16, 181 , said sensing means 32 including at least one linear cell array P1, ... , PM containing a predetermined number of cells Pij, Pij , and transfer means C disposed adjacent to said sensing means 32 for reading out and transferring the charges stored in said sensing means 32 , said transfer means C including at least one linear transfer section C1, ... , CM extending along said linear cell array P1, ... , PM , characterized by further comprising means 12, 100, 102, 126, 128, 140, 142, 180 for generating a relative displacement repeating at given periods between the incident radiation 16, 181 and said solid state image sensing device 10, 50, 190 and for allowing said linear cell array P1, ... , PM of said image sensing device 10, 50, 190 to relatively move to different positions with respect to the radiation 16, 181 so as to perform the image sensing operation. 2. The device as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that said displacement generating means includes means 12, 100, 102, 126, 128, 140, 142 , connected to said image sensing device 10, 50 , for vibrating or swinging said image sensing device 10, 50 in a preselected swing mode in a plane substantially orthogonal to the direction of said incident radiation 16 . 3. The device as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that said displacement generating means includes means 180 for swinging said incident radiation 181 at predetermined time periods relative to said image sensing device 190 . 4. The device as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that said transfer section includes transfer stages with the same number as that of cells Pij, Pij contained in said linear cell array P1, ... , PM . 5. A solid state image sensor for sensing a light image compatible with a preselected television system in which one frame includes a plurality of fields, said image sensor comprising a solid state image sensing device 10, 50, 181 having a substrate 51 with a surface, a photosensing region 32 formed on the surface of said substrate 51 , for receiving an incident light image 16, 181 to generate and store therein signal charges corresponding to the light image 16, 181 , said photosensing region including a matrix array of photocells Pij, Pij of 2N x M N and M positive integers having cell columns P1, ... , PM of M which are arrayed in parallel with one another and each of which has photocells of 2N linearly arrayed, charge transfer sections C1, ... CM of M which are disposed adjacent to and extend along said cell columns Pl, ... , PM of M and which read out and transfer the signal charges stored in said cell columns P1, ... , PM with radiation 16 of said light image, and a shift register S which is connected to saidbcharge transfer sections C1,CM and which sequentially transfers the signal charges coming from said charge transfer sections Cl, CM , characterized by further comprising deflection means 12, 100, 102, 126, 128, 140, 142 mechanically coupled to said substrate 51 of said image sensing device 10, 50 , for swinging said substrate 51 in a preselected swing mode in a plane substantially orthogonal to the incident direction of light image 16 and for allowing each of said cell columns P1, ... , PM to sense the light image 16 at different positions during different field periods in one frame period tF of said television system. 6. The solid state image sensor as claimed in claim 5, characterized in that, when said television system is NTSC system in which one frame tF is composed of first and second fields ta, tb , said deflection means 12, 100, 102, 126, 128, 140, 142 reciprocately moves said substrate 51 of said image sensing device 10, 50 in said plane so as to make each of said cell columns P1, ... , PM rest at a first image sensing position during a first field image sensing period ta , and to make each of said cell columns rest at a second field image sensing position during a second field image sensing period tb . 7. The solid state image sensor as claimed in claim 6, characterized in that said image sensing device 10, 50 further comprises field shift gate means 34 formed on said substrate surface and extending among said M cell columns Pl, ... , PM and said M charge transfer sections C1, ... , CM , and having M field shift gate sections electrically connected to one another, and for simultaneously transferring to said charge transfer sections cl, ... , CM signal charges stored in said cell columns P1, ... , PM substantially in synchronism with a rapid movement of each of said cell columns P1, ... , PM between said first and second image sensing positions. 8. The solid state image sensor as claimed in claim 7, characterized in that each of said charge transfer sections C1, ... , CM has the same number of transfer elements, 2N, as that of said photocells Pij, Pij contained in each of said cell columns P1, ... , PM , whereby the signal charges stored in said photosensitive cells Pij, Pij of each of said cell columns P1, ... , Pel are transferred to said transfer elements by said field shift gate means 34 , respectively. 9. The solid state image sensor as claimed in claim 5, characterized in that, when said television system is NTSC system in which one frame tF is composed of first and second fields ta, tb , said deflection means 12, 100, 102, 126, 128, 140, 142 swings said substrate 51 of said image sensing device 10, 50 in said plane so as to substantially always move between said first and second positions in a reciprocal manner, whereby said cell columns Pl, PM perform the image sensing operation during one frame period tF , while substantially moving. 10. The solid state image sensor as claimed in claim 9, characterized in that said image sensing device 10, 50 further comprises field shift gate sections 34 formed on said substrate surface and extending among said M cell columns P1, .. , PM and M charge transfer sections C1, ... , CM and connected electrically to one another, said field shift gate sections simultaneously transferring the signal charges which are stored in said cell columns P1, ... , PM substantially at the time that each of said cell columns P1, ... , PM reaches the substantially center position between said first and second positions. 11. The solid state image sensor as claimed in claim 10, characterized in that each of said charge transfer sections C1, ... , CM has the same number of transfer elements, 2N, as that of said photocells Pij, Pij contained in each of said cell columns P1 ... , Pom , whereby the signal charges stored in said photosensitive cells Pij, Pij of each of said cell columns P1, ... , PM are transferred to said transfer elements by said field shift gate means 34 , respectively. 12. The solid state image sensor as claimed in claim 8, characterized in that said cell columns P1, ... , PM are arranged equidistantly, and wherein said deflection means 12, 100, 102, 126, 128, 40, 142 swings said substrate 51 in said plane and in the direction substantially orthogonal to the extending direction of said cell columns P1, ... , PM , and in a manner that a distance between said first and second image sensing positions is preferably half of the interval of said cell columns Pl, .. . , PM . 13. The solid state image sensor as claimed in claim 8, characterized in that said call columns P1, ... , PM are arranged equidistantly, and that said deflection means 12, 100, 102, 126, 128, 140, 42 swings said substrate 51 in said plane, in the direction oblique to the extending dir ection of said cell columns Pl, ... , PM , and so that a first distant component of the distance between said first and second image sensing positions, which is directed normal to said cell column extending direction, i eferably equal to the half of the interval between said cell columns P1, ... , PM , and a second 3ista nce component in the extending direction of said cell columns Pl, ... , PM is preferably equal to the half of the pitch of said photocel .s Pij, Pij of 2N c contained in each of said cell column P1, ... 14. The solid state image sensor as Eaffclaimed in claim 5, characterized in that said deflection means comprises at least one piezoelectric element 100, 102, 126, 128, 140, 142 . 15. The solid state image sensor as claimed in claim 5, characterized in that said drive means includes a rectangular piezoelectric plate 10 , 102, 126, 128, 140, 142 made of piezoelectric material. 16. The solid state image sensor as claims in claim 15, characterized by further comprising a mother board 104 made cf electrically conductive material and with a plurality of pins 106 supporting means 108, 124, 146, 148 for stably supporting said piezoelect ic plate 100, 102, 126, 128, 140, 142 on said mother board 104 to allow said piezoelectric plate 300, 102, .T26, 128, 140, 142 mechanically couple with said image sensing device 50 to vibrate according to externally applied electrical signal and flexible connecting means 110, 112, 130, 150 extending so that when said piezoelectric plate 100, 102, 126, 128, 140, 142 vibrates, it does not apply to the vibra tion a real lo ld serving to attenuate the vibration, said connecting means electrically connecting said image sensing device 50 to said pins 106 . 1 . The solid state image sensor as claimed in claim. 16, characterized in that said connecting means includes a film connector 110, 112, 130, 150 with a main portion exs nding closest to said piezoelectric plate 100, 102 , 126, 128, 140, 142 . 18. The stolid state image sensor as claimed in claim 17, charaç terized in that said drive means includes a coupLe of rectangular piezoelectric plates 140, 142 , and said supporting means includes supporting plate 46, 148 for supporting said piezoelec tric plates 141D, 142 in substantially parallel with each other and substantially normal to said mother board 104 , and for resiliently supporting said piezoelectric plates 140, 14 2 at both ends of said piezoelectric plates 140, 14 2 as viewed longitudinally, said piezoelectric plates 140, 142 vibrate in the same vibration node and in the direction of the thickness of said piezoelectric plates 140, 142 per se. 19. The s solid state image sensor as claimed in claim 18, chara cterized in that said piezoelectric plates 140, 142 have respectively side edges to which said image sensing dleurice 50 is fixed at the rear surface. 20. The o Lid state image sen,sor as claimed in claim 17, characterized in that a main portion of said film connector 110, 112, 130, 150 is sticked to said piezoelectric plate and vibrates in accordance with the vibration of said piezoelectric plates.

## Description
Solid state image sensor with a high resolution The present invention relates to solid state image sensors, and more particularly to solid state image sensors for reproducing high definition images. Charge transfer devices CTD such as charge coupled devices have been known as solid state image sensors adaptable for standard television system, for example, National Television Systems Committee NTSC system and have found a variety of applications. InNTSC system, the number of vertical scanning lines is 512, the scanning system is of an interlacing scanning type with two fields for one frame, and the aspect ratio is 3 4. The number of picture elements of a COD adaptable for the standard TV system, for example, in interline transfer type COD IT CCD is approximately 500 vertical x 400 horizontal The solid state image sensor such as the IT CCD is superior to the conventional image pick up tube in many points. For example, the image sensor is small in size, light an weight, and high in reliability.Further, it is essentially free from the pattern distortion and sticking, and is little influenced by afterimage sensor with such excellent features has a prospect of increasing applications in many fields, for example, ITV, small commercial video cameras which will supercede the conventional cameras using silver salt film. For applying the image sensor for such fields, a remarkable resolution improvement of the reproduced picture is required for the solid state image sensor in order to ensure a high quality of picture. High definition wide television system, which can provide wide and high definition pictures are prospective television systems as the next generation television. The study of the high definition wide television system reports that the scanning lines must be 1,000 or more, for example, 1,125. To satisfy such requirement, the improvement of the resolution of the solid state image sensor is very of significance. The number of picture elements 500 x 400 of the currently used solid state image sensor, for example,IT CCD, is too small to realize the high resolution.Therefore, it is considered that the number of picture elements must be remarkably increased. It is to be noted that the solid state image sensor currently used needs one of the largest chip sizes of LSIs. Therefore, if the number of picture elements is simply increased for the above purposes, the chip size of the image sensor is considerably increased. This leads to increase of the size and cost of the image sensor.On the other hand, if the number of picture elements is increased while keeping the present chip size of the image sensor, the integration density of the chip must considerably be improved, for example, four times or more. The LSI chips with such a high integration density, however, involves a difficulty in fabricating them by the fabricating technology at the present stage.Even if in the future, the fabricating technology advances and realizes the solid state image sensors with a high integration density, a new problem arises that a drive system for such image sensors must be complicated and consume large power. Accordingly, an object of the present invention is to provide a new and improved solid state image sensor with a high resolution. Another object of the present invention is to provide a new and improved solid state image sensor having a resolution comparable with that of the solid state image sensor which has successfully increased the number of picture elements without increasing the chip size or the integration density of picture elements. A solid state image sensor according to the present invention is provided with a solid state image sensing device such as a charge transfer device. The image sensing device includes a sensing section which receives incident radiation representing image information, generates and stores charges corresponding to the radiation, and at least one transfer section. The sensing section is provided with at least one train of cells including a predetermined number of cells. The transfer section is disposed adjacent to and extends along the cell train. The transfer section reads out and transfers the charges stored in the sensing section.The image sensor of the invention is further provided with a device for generating a vibration to provide a position reciprocal replacement of the cell train between the incident radiation and the image sensing device at given time periods. The vibration of the cell train is done for sensing the light image at different positions with respect to the incident radiation at different time points. With this arrangement, an effective image sensing area of the image sensing device is increased. Consequently, the resolution of the reproduced picture may be improved without increasing the integration density of the cell train.Thus, fine and definite reproduced picture may be obtained. The present invention is best understood by reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Fig. 1 is a block diagram showing an overall arrangement of a solid state image sensor according to one embodiment of the present invention Fig. 2 is a plan view of an image sensing area of an interline transfer charge coupled device IT CCD ofFig. 1 Fig. 3 is a partial plan view of an area in the image sensing area of Fig. 2, which corresponds to one picture element Fig. 4A illustrates a model of a vibration or swing of one picture element area in Fig. 3 for illustrating an IT CCD swing mode in Fig. 1 Fig. 4B shows a waveform of vibration of IT CCD illustrated corresponding to one picture element area inFig. 3A Fig. 5A is a waveform of an electrical signal supplied to a field shift gate FSG of IT CCD in Fig. 1 during a period of one frame Fig. 5B shows a waveform of swing of the IT CCD illustrated corresponding to the signal waveform ofFig. 5A Fig. 6A illustrates a model of swing of a part of the image sensing area for explaining another swing mode of the IT CCD of Fig. 1 Fig. 6B is a waveform of another swing mode of theIT CCD illustrated corresponding to the partial image sensing area of Fig. 6A Fig. 7A illustrates a waveform of swing illustrating yet another swing mode of the IT CCD Fig. 7B illustrates an effective photosensint distribution of the IT CCD vibrating in the swing mode of Fig. 7A Fig. 7C shows an effective photosensing distribution of the IT CCD vibrating in a trapezoidal wave swing mode shown in Figs. 4B and 6B Fig. 8 shows a waveform illustrating a sinusoidal swing mode as a modification of the triangle swing mode of Fig. 7A Fig. 9A illustrates a model of one cell area illustrating a swing mode adaptable for an image sensing or pick up system in which one frame is composed of four fields Figs. 9B and 9C show graphs illustrating X andY axial displacements of the IT CCD swinging in the swing mode of Fig. 9A with respect to time Fig. 9D illustrates a waveform of an electrical signal supplied on an FSG in the IT CCD swinging in the swing mode of Fig. 9A Fig. 10A shows a model of a modification of a swing mode shown in Fig. 9A Figs. 10B and 10C are graphs illustrating X andY axial displacements of the IT CCD swinging in the swing mode of Fig. 10A Fig. 10D shows a graph illustrating a swing waveform in a swing mode adaptable for an image sensing system of the type in which one frame is composed of eight fields Fig. llA is a model illustrating another modification of the swing mode shown in Fig. 9A Figs. llB and 11C show graphs illustrating X andY axial displacements of the IT CCD swinging in the swing mode shown in Fig. llA Fig. 12 shows an arrangement of an IT CCD which corresponds to the Fig. 2 IT CCD of which the planer surface of the image sensing area is modified, with the vertical COD having the same number of transfer stages as that of the number of picture elements of the cell line adjacent to the vertical COD Fig. 13 shows a partial plan view of the image sensing area of the IT CCD for illustrating a displacement of a cell matrix of IT CCD when the Fig. 12 IT CCD is horizontally vibrated Fig. 14 shows a partial plan view of the image sensing area of the IT CCD for illustrating a displacement of the cell array for vibrating the Fig. 12 IT CCD in a slanted direction Fig. 15A is a partial plan view showing the practical structure of the IT CCD of Fig. 12 Fig. 15B shows an enlarged plan view of a part of the IT CCD for definitely illustrating electrode layers overlaid with respect to each other in Fig. 15A Fig. 16 shows a partial cross sectional view taken on line XVI XVI Fig. 17 shows a partial cross sectional view illustrating a cross sectional view taken on lineXVII XVII in Fig. 15A Fig. 18A is a perspective view of an image sensor deflection device for vibrating or swinging the Fig. 12IT CCD in the vibration mode of Fig. 13 Fig. 18B shows a perspective view of a structure of a plate type bimorph vibrating element fixed sandwiching the film connector of Fig. 18A Fig. 19A shows a perspective view of a modification of the image sensor deflection device of Fig. 18A Fig. 19B shows a perspective view of an arrangement of one of the bimorph piezoelectric elements used in the image sensor deflection device of Fig. 19A Fig. 20 shows a perspective view of another modification of the image sensor deflection device ofFig. 18A Fig. 21 shows a displacement characteristic of a bimorph piezoelectric element of the image sensor deflection device of Fig. 20 and Fig. 22 is a longitudinal cross sectional view of an image intensifier which is another embodiment of the present invention. Referring now to Fig. 1, there is schematically shown a solid state image sensor arrangement according to an embodiment of the present invention. The image sensor arrangement is so designed that a solid state image sensor per se vibrates or swings for incident light image. In Fig. 1, a solid stage image sensor, for example, an interline transfer charge coupled device IT CCD 10 has an ordinary number of picture elements, for example, 500 x 400. The IT CCD is fixed to a vibrating table 12, at the rear side 10b opposite to the image sensing area 10a. The vibrating table 12 vibrates or swings in a plane normal to the incident image rays 16, in a given direction, for example, a horizontal direction as indicated by an arrow 18. Accordingly, the IT CCD 10 fixed to the vibrating table 12 vibrates or swings in the vibrating mode, too. The IT CCD 10 is electrically connected through a gate terminal 19 to a COD driver 20. The COD driver 20 responds to a sync pulse signal 24 generated by a sync signal generating circuit 22, thereby to mechanically drive the IT CCD 10. The sync signal generating circuit 22 is also electrically connected to a wave shaping circuit 26 connected to the drive circuit 14.The wave shaping circuit 26 receives the sync pulse signal 24 from the sync signal generating circuit 22 and wave shapes the sync pulse signal 24 to produce a sync pulse signal 28 necessary for vibrating the vibrating table 12. The wave shaped sync pulse signal 28 is supplied to the drive circuit 14 for vibrating the table 12. The output terminal of the vibrating or swinging IT CCD 10 is connected to a video signal amplifier 30. The IT CCD 10 is provided with a photosensitive portion 32 made up of photosensitive elements, for example, photodiodes Pll, Pll , P12, P12 , , P1N, P1N , ... , Pij, Pij , ... , PEINI PMN Of photodiodesP vertically arranged, the adjacent photodiodes are paired and designated by paired notation, as just above.This is done for making the notation of the photodiodes arrayed comply with the conventional one adaptable forNTSC system. These photodiodes P are arrayed on a COD substrate not shown in a matrix fashion. In the matrix array each column includes photodiodes of 2N and the columns of M are arrayed side by side. M verticalCCDs C1 to CM are disposed adjacent to the M photodiodes columns, respectively. The number of vertical CCDs C1 to CM is equal to the number of vertical picture elements in the IT CCD 10, that is, the half N of the number of photodiodes contained in each photodiode column. The vertical CCDs C1 to CM are connected at their final transfer stage to a horizontal COD shift register S.A field shift gate FSG 34 is arranged with the gate portions each extending through gaps between the vertical photodiode columns P1 to PM and the vertical CCDs C1 to Ctl. The FSG 34 is electrically connected to the gate terminal 19. when a pulse signal a gate control signal is applied from the COD driver 20 to the FSG 34 through the gate terminal 19, the signal charge stored in the photodiodes P is transferred to the vertical CCDs C1 to CM. The signal charge transferred to the vertical CCDs C1 to CM is sequentially transferred to the horizontal COD shift register S for each stage. The charge is then read out from the output terminal 36 through the amplifier 30. Fig. 3 shows an enlarged plan view of an image sensing area corresponding to one picture element or one cell in the photosensitive portion 32 of the IT CCD 10 in Fig. 2. A hatched portion 38 indicates an aluminum electrode serving to shut off the incident light. The At electrode 38 has an opening 40 under which the photodiode Pij is located. The verticalCOD Ci and the FSG 34 run under the AL electrode 38, and hence are optically shielded from light rays by the AQ electrode 38. An internal interconnection pattern not shown for driving the vertical COD Ci is formed under an area 42 of the AQ electrode 38 located above the photodiode Pij. The area 42 of the AQ electrode 38 performs optical isolation between the photodiodesPij and Pij . The present embodiment is applied for the image sensing based on NTSC television system. Accordingly, the IT CCD 10 is vibrated or swinged horizontally inFig. 1, i.e. in the horizontal direction, at a period corresponding to one frame period tF two fields period in the image sensing operation. The vibration mode or swing mode of the IT CCD 10 will now be described referring to Figs. 4 and 5. Fig. 4A illustrates again the one cell area shown in Fig. 3 in a model, for explaining the swing mode of the IT CCD 10. The IT CCD 10 is swinged, according to a vibration waveform as shown. in Fig. 4B, so that during a field A in one frame period tF, the opening 40 where the one cell Pij of the IT CCD 10 is located at a first location as indicated by a solid line inFig. 4A, on the other hand, during a field B, it is positioned at a second location denoted by a dotted line 44. The swing width of the COD is denoted as A. If the center of the swing in this coordinates system is 0, the COD reciprocately swings a A 2 distance positively and negatively with respect to the center 0. If the period ts Fig. 4B that the center 40c of the opening 40 of the Ai electrode 38 moves fromX A 2 to X A 2 is sufficiently shorter than the one frame period tF, the opening center 40c, i.e. the center of the cell Pij , rests at X A 2 during the field A period ta. During the field B period tb, it rests at X A 2. Since the amplitude A is set much smaller than the horizontal pitch length PH, the cell has substantially two different spatial sampling areas in the horizontal direction during the one frame period tF. While one cell Pij have typically been described, the same thing is true for the remaining cells. In Fig. 5, there are shown a voltage signal waveform fFSG from the photosensitive portion to theFSG 34 for controlling the transfer of the signal charge to the vertical CCDs C1 to CM, and a time variation fA of the opening center 40c. As shown in Fig. 5A, the voltage signal from the COD driver 20 in a pulse signal changing between a low level potential VL and a high level potential VH. During the vertical blanking period tVB of the IT CCD 10, the pulse component at high level potential VH is applied to the FSG 34 Fig. 2 . The signal charge stored in the photosensitive section 32 by image sensing the incident image light rays is transferred through the FSG 34 to the vertical CCDs Cl to CM.The time variation waveform fA of position of the cell center 40c shown in Fig. 5B is so arranged as to cross the coordinate X 0 during the vertical blanking period tVB and within a period that the pulse signal from the COD driver 20 shown in Fig. SA is at VH. Accordingly, the signal charge stored in the photosensitive section 32 during the field A period ta corresponds to the image light incident on the IT CCD 10 when the IT CCD 10 is positioned at X A 2. The signal charge obtained during the field B period tb corresponds to the image light incident on the IT CCD 10 when the IT CCD 10 is at X A 2. The IT CCD 10 thus arranged according to the present invention, unlike the conventional IT CCD picking up an image at the same position through the periods of fields A and B, may pick up an image from the incident image light at different positions during the periods of fields A and B. In reproducing the image thus formed, if the read out cell signals or the image picture signals of the fields A and B thus obtained are visualized spacially shifted in horizontal direction so as to be adapted for the aforementionedCOD sampling operation, the resolution of the reproduced picture can be improved essentially two times. In the present embodiment, the cell center 40c merely reciprocates in horizontal direction every field period. The horizontal reciprocal movement of the IT CCD 10 has little adverse influence on the vertical resolution of the reproduced picture. As described above, the present embodiment employs the solid state image sensor such as IT CCD arranged such that the signal charge stored in the photosensitive section are simultaneously read out and transferred to the vertical COD sections for each field and during the blanking period. The image sensor is vibrated or swinged in a vertical plane with respect to the incident image light. In more particular, during the periods of the fields A and B, the image sensor stops at two different positions. And during the blanking period, the image sensor reciprocately and radially moves between two different positions. With such an arrangement, the effective horizontal resolution may be doubled without deteriorating the vertical resolution, thus providing a fine and high quality picture reproduced. Even if the fabrication technique in this field will further be increased and this technique may realize a solid state image sensor of which the picture elements are packed in density two times in horizontal direction, it should be noted that the image sensor of the present invention is advantageous over such image sensor with high integration density and has the following advantages. 1 In the image sensor with highly density integration, the cell pitch is halved. Therefore, the saturation signal level is remarkably reduced to cause the dynamic range to be excessively narrower. On the other hand, the image sensor according to the present invention is free from such problem about the dynamic range characteristic. Further, it can excellently remove the deterioration of the picture quality such as smear.or blooming which arises from the diffusion of the signal charge in the substrate when the integration density is increased and hence the distance between the photosensitive portion and the vertical COD is made small. Thus, according to the present invention, the solid state image sensor with a wide dynamic range can be provided without using special and so high fabrication technique. 2 On the image sensor with high integration density, the read speed of the cell signal imagesensed signal is substantially doubled. Many problems undesirably arises from this for example, increase of power consumption and difficulty in circuit design on the circuits for driving the highly packed image sensor and the peripheral circuits for signal processing. The image sensor of the present invention is free from such problems. 3 In the image sensor with high integration density, a ratio of each cell area to the substrate area is of necessity small. Accordingly, ratio of the opening area in each cell to the substrate area is also small and is never large. It can not be expected accordingly that the increase of the integration density brings about decrease of the ineffective area in the photosensitive area of such image sensor in collecting light image information. On the other hand, the image sensor according to the present invention can substantially collect the light image data from the area corresponding to the actual ineffective area by the vibration of the image sensor per se. Thus, the image sensor of the present invention has an effectively wide area for collecting the optical image information. As described above, how to set up a relationship between the time variation of position fA of the chip substrate of the swinging solid state image sensor and the signal charge read out operation, is one of the most important factor in realizing the high resolution of the reproduced picture. Fig. 6 shows a modification of the swing mode of the aforementioned embodiment. In this swing mode, the opening center 40c in one cell area horizontally swings a distance of PH 4 from its swing center in the positive and negative directions. The other fundamental swinging operations are similar to those in the above embodiment.The waveform on the graph of Fig. 6B, which represents a vibration of IT CCD, is a trapezoidal waveshape. A model of the image sensing cells reciprocatingly moving rest at two different positions during both fields A and B when the IT CCD 10 is vibrated or swinged, is illustrated in Fig. 6A. The cell array as a model in Fig. 6A is illustrated for each frame period. In Fig. 6A, cell positions, as indicated by a solid line during a field A period and as indicated by a dotted line during a field B period, are arranged so as to be distanced by equal pitch length PH 2 from one another. If the IT CCD 10 is swinged under this cell array condition, it is possible to prevent generation of moire signal. Therefore, the resolution of the reproduced picture may further be improved. Turning now to Fig. 7, there is shown still another modification of swing mode of the embodiments shown inFigs. 1 to 5. According to a triangle swing mode theIT CCD horizontally swings with an amplitude PH PAt where AH is a length of opening as horizontally viewed.In the present instance, the swing center of the IT CCD is just positioned at the coordinate X 0 during the vertical blanking period, as in the previous instances.When such triangle vibration mode is used, the effective photosensitive cell area is uniformly and continuously expanded within a swing amplitude distance over an entire area of one frame period tF consisting of two periods of fields A and B, as shown in Fig. 7B.In Fig. 7B, symbol e indicates a sensitivity. This arises from the fact that, during one frame period tF, the IT CCD senses the light image while always moving without the rest of the opening 40. In this instance, therefore, the ineffective area for the image sensing the area is ineffective in photosensing or image sensing may be remarkably reduced. When the called trapezoidal swing mode already referred to Figs. 4B and 6B is used, extremely low sensitivity areas denoted as 48 are necessarily present. Accordingly, undesirable more signal tends to generate. Particularly, when theIT CCD having a cell opening with a small horizontal length AH is used, the adverse influence by the false signals is serious. When the triangle wave swing mode shown in Fig. 7A is used, however, this problem may easily be solved. In Fig. 8, there is shown a sinusoidal wave swing mode , which may be considered as a compromise of the trapezoidal wave swing mode and the triangle wave swing mode . In this instance, the amplitude is PH.This instance may effect the image sensing with small ineffective area. While having been described using the embodiment applied for the NTSC television system, the present invention is not limited by such instances in any way.In image pick up systems other than the television system, for example, electronic camera still camera not using the silver salt film and OCR, both being a closed system, the scanning system is not limited by the two field for one frame. Therefore, if the present invention is applied for such image pick up system, the resolution is further improved. Fig. 9 shows a modification of the above mentioned vibration mode when the present invention is applied for the image pick up system of the multi field for one frame type. In this instance, four fields A, B, C and D make up one frame. The IT CCD 10 is vibrated radially in four directions about the vibration center 0, corresponding to four field periods, as shown inFig. 9A. In Fig. 9A, the amplitudes of the X andY axial swing components in the swing mode of this instance are, respectively, PG AG and PG AG t where AG is the horizontal X axial width of the cell area and AG , the vertical Y axial width. The vibration mode components in the respective directions are shown in Figs. 9B and 9C. By using such vibration mode, four effective image sensing picture elements may be obtained for one real cell during one frame period. A waveform fFSG of the pulse signal or gate control signal applied to FSG 34 Fig. 1 , and a time variation of vibration of theIT CCD are timed as shown in Fig. 9D, and substantially the same as in Fig. 5. When the gate control signal FSG is at high voltage level VH, the IT CCD 10 is positioned at the vibration center 0. A resolution of the reproduced picture is substantially four times that of the conventional IT CCD which is not swinged for image sensing. In Fig. 9A, ineffective portions 50 1, 50 2, 50 3 and 50 4, which are hatched in illustration, are present. The ineffective portion 50 may easily be improved by a skilled person in the art.For example, all one it may be improved by increasing the area of the opening portion 40. Fig. 10 shows an embodiment of the present invention which is arranged to reduce the ineffective area in the cell of the swinging IT CCD. As shown inFig. 10A, the IT CCD 10 is swinged in a manner that the opening center 40c moves along zig zag locus so as to have the horizontal swing component and the vertical swing component as well. By using this swing mode, the ineffective area is further decreased. In this case, the swing mode as shown in Fig. 10B is employed for the horizontal swing mode, and is same as that of Fig. 7.The swinging frequency of the vertical component is selected higher than that of the horizontal components, as shown in Fig. 100. In Fig. 10C, Pv is a vertical pitch length of one cell, and AV is a vertical length of the opening 40. Incidentally, in a closed system, the gate control signal with a waveform fFSG like that of the above case is applied to the FSG 34 to read out the signal charge stored in the photosensitive section 32 Fig. 1 and transfer it to the vertical CCDs C1 to CM, when the vibration center of the vertical swing component is positioned at Y 0, as shown in Fig. 10D. Such an arrangement enables one frame to have many fields, for example, 8 fields. In this case, as seen from Fig. 10A, the image sensed signals obtained from the fields are overlapped one another. Nevertheless, different eight photosensing areas may be obtained from one real photosensitive cell area during one frame period.Therefore, the resolution of the reproduced picture is considerably improved. In Fig. 11, the opening 40 is swinged in 8 shape Fig. llA in a plane normal to the incident image light. In the embodiment of Fig. 9, the horizontal orX axial vibration component may be the called triangle swing mode shown in Fig. 9B. The waveform of theY axial swing component is a complicated triangle waveform as it is returned during the field C period.In the swing mode of Fig. llA, the swing waveforms in the X and Y axial directions are simple sinusoidal waveforms, as shown in Figs. llB and 110. Therefore, the swing control of the IT CCD is simplified. Fig. 12 shows a solid state image sensor including an IT CCD 50 which is another embodiment of the present invention. The IT CCD 50 is adaptable for the NTSC system. In Fig. 12, like reference numerals are used for designating like or equivalent portions in Fig. 1.The solid state image sensor is composed of a matrix array of photodiodes or picture element cells P of 2N x M N 250 and M 400 . The cell matrix includes columns of the cells P1 to PM. Each cell column contains picture element cells of 2N Pll, Pll , ... , PlN, PlN , ... , PMN, PMN . The vertical CCDs Cl to CM of M are arranged in opposition to the cell columns Pl to PM, with the FSG 34 interposing therebetween.The vertical CCDs C1 to CM have the same number of transfer stages as the picture elements contained in the cell columns P1 to PM. The first vertical COD column Cl includes transfer elements of 2N Cll, Cll , ... , C1Nt ClN . The same thing is true for the remaining vertical COD columns.The signal charges stored in the photocells Pll, Pll , ... , PlN, PlN in each photocell columns P1 to PM are respectively and independently transferred to the transfer elements Cll, Cllss, ClNt ClNl in opposition to the vertical CCDs C1 to CM through the FSG 34, during the horizontal effective period. The signal charges loaded into the verticalCCDs C1 to CM are successively transferred to every unit of transfer elements of which the number is the same as that of the photocells included in each vertical cell columns. In the horizontal effective period, the charges are further transferred in a horizontal shift register S, and then produced through the amplifier 30 and the output terminal 36 in successive order. The IT CCD 50 of Fig. 12 horizontally vibrates or swings in a plane normal to the incident image light and relative to the incident image light, according to the called trapezoidal wave swing mode . The technique of vibrating the IT CCD has already been described and hence no further explanation thereof will be given here. Fig. 13 shows a model of a moving state of the photosensitive section in the horizontal direction when the IT CCD 50 of Fig. 12 swings in the trapezoidal wave vibration mode . The amplitude of the vibration is 1 2 of the horizontal picture element pitch. In Fig. 13, during the field A in one frame period, the IT CCD 50 just rests at a first image sensing position as indicated by a solid line. At the first image sensing position, it senses the incident light image. During the field B period, it rests at the second image sensing position as indicated by a dotted line in Fig. 13.The movement of the signal charges stored in the photocells to the vertical CODS during each field period, is performed during a period corresponding to the vertical blanking period in the scanning operation at the picture reproducing stage, for executing an effective image sensing operation. Accordingly, during the fields A and B of one frame period, the image information may be obtained at first and second image sensing positions which are shifted 1 2 pitch of the picture element from one another. Therefore, the present embodiment may attain a high horizontal resolution with the photocells 2N x M, or 500, and the horizontal resolution is comparable with that of the high density COD with 1,000 picture element cells.According to the present embodiment, the signal charges stored in the photocells are independently transferred to the corresponding transfer elements of the vertical COD, respectively.Therefore, it is prevented that the signal charges from the picture elements adjacent to each other as viewed vertically are mixed when the signal charges are transferred in the vertical COD. This feature is useful in improving the picture quality or the resolution of the reproduced picture. Fig. 14 shows an embodiment of the invention which may improve the horizontal resolution and the vertical resolution using a modification of the swing mode shown in Fig. 13. In Fig. 14, the IT CCD 50 vibrates or swings in a slanted direction denoted as reference numeral 52. Also in this case, the X and Y axial swing components have the trapezoidal wave vibration mode , for example. The X axial swing component has an amplitude of the half of the photocell pitch lengthAx as horizontally viewed. The Y axial vibration component has an amplitude of the half of the cell pitch Ay as vertically viewed. The movement of the photocell Pij of the IT CCD 50 vibrating in such vibration mode is indicated by an arrow 54.During the field A period, each of picture element cells rests at a first image sensing position as indicated by a solid line in Fig. 14 and the image sensing is thus performed at this position. During the field B period, the cells stop and rest at a second image sensing positionas indicated by a dotted line, which is different from the first image sensing position in the Fig. 13 embodiment. During this period, the image sensing is performed at this position. This operation is repeated every frame period. For reproducing the image signal obtained according to the present image sensing system, the field image read out in synchronism with the read out clock in the fields A and B may easily provide a normal reproduced picture by vertically shifting them by the 1 2 picture element period. According to this image sensing system, as shown in Fig. 14, the field image signal components N 1 HA, NHA, N 1 HA, N 2 HA, N 3 HA, ... are read out in the field A period. In the field B period, the field picture signal components N I HB, NHB, N l HB, N 2 Hg, N 3 Hg, ... are read out.Therefore, the interlacing image sensing is performed not only in the horizontal direction but also in the vertical direction, corresponding to the interlacing scanning in the picture display. Almost ideal interlacing image sensing is possible, accordingly. Thus, a high vertical resolution comparable with that as given by 1,000 vertical scanning lines can be attained. Further, the horizontal resolution may be improved doubly. A practical arrangement of the IT CCD 50, which is well adaptable for the two embodiments shown inFigs. 12 to 14, will be described referring to Figs. 15 to 17. Fig. 15A is a plan view of a planar structure of a part of the IT CCD 10 formed on the substrate 51.In the figure, the photodiode areas 52 1, ... , 52 i, ... serving as photocells are shaded only for ease of illustration. Vertical COD channels 54 1, 54 2, extend between cell columns including the cell regions 52 1, ... , 52 i on the substrate 51 in parallel fashion. Formed on the vertical COD channels 54 1, 54 2, ... are first transfer electrodes 56 1, 56 2, forming a first layer, which extend normal to the COD channels 54 1, 54 2, ... Second transfer electrodes 58 1, 58 2, ... forming a second layer are further formed on the first transfer electrodes 56 1, 56 2,The planar structure of the first and second transfer electrodes 56 and 58 are clearly illustrated in an enlarged manner in Fig. 15B. A gap 60 1 extends between a convex portion 58a of the second transfer electrode 58 1 and a convex portion 56a of the first transfer electrode 56 2.The gap 60 1 is located at about mid point in the width Ap of the cell column in the vertical direction. The remaining electrodes are also arranged in a similar fashion. In Fig. 15A, only one of the other gaps is typically illustrated using reference numeral 60 2. Third electrode layers 61 2, 62 2, are formed on the columns of the convex portion 58a, Fig. 16 shows a cross sectional view of the IT CCD 50 taken on line XVI XVI in Fig. 15A. An N layer 64 serving as a buried channel is deposited on the top surface of the substrate 51 made of P type silicon, for example. A gate oxide film 66 is deposited on the N layer 64. The first transfer electrodes 56 1, 56 2, are formed on the gate oxide film 66. The second transfer electrodes 58 1, 58 2, ... partially overlay the first transfer electrodes 56 1, 56 2, ... , through insulative films 66 1, 66 2, ...The overlaying portion of these electrodes are denoted as Ao. After insulative films 68 1, 68 2, ... are formed on the structure , the electrode layer 62 1 is deposited. Three phase clock pulse voltages are applied to the first to third transfer electrodes 56, 58 and 62, respectively. With the application of the pulse voltages, a transfer element or a transfer unit is formed, which is composed of the first transfer electrode 56 2, the second transfer electrode 58 1, and the third transfer electrode 62 1 between the adjoining first and second transfer electrodes. The transfer unit corresponds to one transfer stage of the vertical COD. The cross sectional structure of the IT CCD 50 taken along line XVII XVII in Fig. 15A, has a simple structure in which the first transfer electrodes 56 1, 56 2, ... and the second transfer electrodes 58 1, 58 2, ... are laid one upon another, as shown in Fig. 17. The IT CCD 50 thus arranged is simple in construction and has little deterioration of sensitivity, and is preferable for the present invention. In Fig. 18, there is schematically shown an embodiment of an image sensor driving device deflection device for vibrating the Fig. 12 IT CCD 50 in the vibration mode shown in Fig. 13. The IT CCD 50 is driven to vibrate in the horizontal direction by rectangular bimorph piezoelectric elements e.g. ceramic of the open side type. In Fig. 18A, a plate base referred to as a mother board hereinafter 104 has at both side edges a plurality of electrode pins 106 coupled with an external IC socket not shown . A support table 108 is fixed on the mother board 100. The plate like bimorph piezoelectric elements 100 and 102 are fixed at one ends thereof to the support table 108 by means of adhesive, for example. As shown in Fig. 18B, the piezoelectric elements 100 and 102 are firmly bonded to each other, having flexible print circuited substrates referred to as film connectors hereinafter 110 and 112 sandwiched therebetween. The film connectors 110 and 112 electrically connect the IT CCD 50 to the electrode pins 106 of the mother board 104. With this connection, the image sensed signal derived from the IT CCD 50 is supplied to the electrode pins 106.The rectangular piezoelectric elements 100 and 102 are fixed to the support table 108 substantially orthogonal to the top surface of the mother board 104. Accordingly, the piezoelectric elements 100 and 102 are allowed to vibrate at the free ends thereof in the horizontal direction as indicated by an arrow 18.The piezoelectric elements 100 and 102 are provided at the principal surfaces with electrodes not shown .These elements 100 and 102 are connected through the electrodes to an external circuit. The IT CCD 50 is bonded to the side faces of the free ends of the pair of piezoelectric elements 100 and 102. The film connectors 110 and 112 are formed to substantially have a letter Z shape. Wiring patterns 113 extend along the stepped portions on the surface of the film connectors 110 and 112. End portions 110a and 112a of the film connectors 110 and 112 are bent in the directions of arrows 114 and 116, as shown in Fig. 18B. The bent end portions 110a and 112a are mounted to both sides of the IT CCD 50 which are opposite to each other, as shown in Fig. 18A. The other end portions 110b and 112b of the film connectors are bent in the directions of arrows 118 and 120, as shown in Fig. 18B, and are connected to the connection area of the mother board 104, as shown in Fig. 18A.The connection area of the mother board 104 is electrically connected to the pins 106 by printed patterns not shown on the mother board 104. With this arrangement, the image sensed signals derived from the IT CCD 50 are supplied to the pins 106, through the film connectors 110 and 112. The structure thus arrangeed is packed in a package not shown . The image sensor deflection device thus constructed may effectively swing the IT CCD 50 in the above mentioned swing mode. As described above, the main portions of the film connectors 110 and 112, connecting the IT CCD 50 and the pins 106, are layered and sandwiched between the pair of the piezoelectric plates 100 and 102. This feature prevents the vibration or swing range of the IT CCD 50 from being limited by the film connectors 110 and 112. In other words, the film connectors 110 and 112 are arranged so as not to be a real load for the COD vibration . Therefore, theIT CCD 50 may be effectively swinged by the bimorph piezoelectric elements 100 and 102. Fig. 19 shows another embodiment of the invention so arranged as to vibrate or swing the IT CCD 50 using a bimorph vibrating element of the both end support type.A couple of support tables 122 and 124 are fixed in a face to face fashion on the top surface of the mother board 104. A couple of rectangular plate like bimorph piezoelectric elements 126 and 128 are fixed by the support tables 122 and 124 in a manner that their principal surfaces are faced with each other. That is, the piezoelectric plate 126 is fixed at both ends by the two support tables 122 and 124 using adhesive, for example. The piezoelectric plate 126 is disposed substantially normal to the mother board 104. The piezoelectric plate 128 is also fixedly supported at both ends by the support tables 122 and 124, and are disposed substantially in parallel with the piezoelectric plate 126. Therefore, both the piezoelectric plates 126 and 128, vibrating in the same swing mode or in a synchronized manner, serve as displacement generating elements with both ends supported. The piezoelectric plate 126 is made up of a couple of elemental piezoelectric plates 126 1 and 126 2. These elemental plates 126 1 and 126 2 are bonded to each other to have the film connector 130 inserted therebetween. The connector 130 is substantially T shaped. Its first end portion 130a is bent to the direction of an arrow 132, and is mounted to the one of the sides of the IT CCD 50. Second and third end portions 130b and 130c of the film connector 130 are bent to the directions of arrows 134 and 136, respectively. The film connector 130 is connected at their end faces 130d and 130e to a connection area 138 formed on the top surface of the mother board 104. The other piezoelectric plate 128 is also constructed in a similar fashion. The IT CCD 50 is bonded to the intermediate portions of the side faces of the piezoelectric plates 126 and 128. With this arrangement, the IT CCD 50 is swinged in the horizontal direction of an arrow 18 with the vibration of the piezoelectric elements 126 and 128. Therefore, unlike the embodiment of Fig. 18, the IT CCD 50 may exactly be swinged in the horizontal direction. Since the two piezoelectric elements 126 and 128 are used, the IT CCD 50 is stably fixed thereon and its manufacturing is easy. In an embodiment of Fig. 20, two rectangular plate like bimorph piezoelectric elements 140 and 142 are mounted to a frame 144 fixed to the top surface of the mother board 104 through a resilient support plates 146 and 148. Conventional piezoelectric ceramic material of ternary system piezoelectric ceramics was used for the piezoelectric elements 140 and 142. The piezoelectric plates 140 and 142 were each formed by sticking together two piezoelectric ceramic plates of 5 mm in width, 18 mm in length and 0.15 mm in thickness. The support plates 146 and 148 are each formed by working a nickel plate of 5 mm in width and 50 pm in thickness so as to have a maximum of its displacement. The support plate 146 has bent portions 146a and 146b serving as spring at locations near its both ends.The other support plate 148 has likewise bent portions 148a and 148b. The piezoelectric plates 140 and 142 are fixed at the intermediate portions of the resilient support plates 146 and 148. The piezoelectric elements 140 and 142 thus constructed are arranged to be in parallel with each other and to vibrate in the direction of an arrow 18 together. An electric field applied to the piezoelectric elements 140 and 142 are controlled so that these plates vibrate in the same vibration mode having the displacements and directions at a time point . A film connector 150 is sticked to the rear surface of the IT CCD 50. The film connector 150 is made up of a main body 150 1, a pair of C shaped legs 150 2 and 150 3 integrally connected to both ends of the main body 150 1, and a plurality of connecting portions 160 made of rubber and connected to the C shaped legs 150 2 and 150 3. In the legs 150 2 and 150 3, a necessary number of wiring patterns 162 extends following the configuration. The IT CCD 50 is bonded to the side faces of the two piezoelectric plates 140 and 142, through the film connector 150. At this time, the C shaped legs 150 2 and 150 3 of the film connector 150 are bent, whereby the connecting portions 160 are electrically connected, in one to one correspondence, to the printed patterns 164 provided on the top surface of the mother board 104 corresponding to the pins 106. According to the embodiment of Fig. 20, the piezoelectric elements 140 and 142 are mounted in a floating manner to the frame 144, through support plates 146 and 148 having a spring function. The piezoelectric plates 140 and 142 are structured such that these are substantially floated in space, having essentially no portion fixedly coupled with other members. This unique structure of the plates remarkably increases an amount of their displacement in the vibration of the piezoelectric elements 140 and 142.This means that the present embodiment is well adaptable for the case to vibrate or swing a relatively heavy object e.g. 5g such as the IT CCD 50. Fig. 21 illustrates a graph of experimental data displacements given by the conventional bimorph piezoelectric element of the both end supporting type and by the bimorph piezoelectric element of the open end type of this invention with respect to the applied voltage. In the figure, a curve 170 indicate a variation of the displacement by the conventional piezoelectric element of the both end supporting type, and a curve 172 indicates a variation of the displacement by the floating type piezoelectric elements 140 and 142 of this invention.As seen from Fig. 21, in the Fig. 20 embodiment, a displacement corresponding to an amplitude of the drive force for swinging the IT CCD 50 is about three times larger than that by the piezoelectric element of the both end supporting type. Although the present invention has been shown and described with respect to particular embodiments, nevertheless, various changes and modifications which are obvious to a person skilled in the art to which the invention pertains are deemed to lie within the spirit, scope, and contemplation of the invention. In the above described embodiments, in order to attain a relative swing between the incident image light rays and the solid state image sensor such as theIT CCD, the image sensor itself is swinged. It should be understood that the present invention is not limited by such embodiments. For example, the incident image light rays may be swinged against the image sensing face of the image sensor which is at a standstill. This instance will be described in detail referring to Fig. 22. Fig. 22 shows a horizontal cross section of an image intensifier 180 of the electron impact type. When the image light 181 is incident on the photosensitive face, photoelectrons as directed by an arrow 184 are radiated from the photosensitive face 182. The photoelectrons 184 are accelerated and focused by an electric field developed in the internal space of the image intensifier 180 with aid of the electrodes 186 and 188. Then, the photoelectrons hit the solid state image sensor with an image sensing face 192 disposed in opposition to the photosensitive face 182 in the internal space of the image intensifier 180.The photoelectrons are converted into a great number of electron hole pairs according to the known electron multiplying effect. The image intensifier 180 is further provided with a pair of deflection electrode plates 194 and 196. The electrode plates 194 and 196, provided in the image intensifier 180, are arranged oppositely each other with the photoelectron path located therebetween. Of these electrodes, the electrode plate 196 is grounded and the electrode 194 is electrically connected to the signal input terminal 198. When this embodiment is used in NTSC television system, a deflection control signal with a pulsate wave shape 200 is applied to the terminal 198. In a field A period, the voltage applied to the polarizing electrode 194 is zero. In the fieldB period, it is a deflection voltage VDEF. Accordingly, when the field period is shifted from the field A period to the field B period, the photoelectrons 184 are deflected in the horizontal direction of an arrow 202 by an amount of deflection corresponding to an intensity of the deflection field developed between the electrodes 194 and 196 by the deflection voltage VDEF applied therebetween.When it returns to the field A period, the deflection field disappears, so that the electron stream takes again the optical path as indicated by a solid line. This operation is repeated to substantially double the optical data collecting area of a COD 190.Therefore, it is seen that according to the theory already described referring to Figs. 1 through 14, the incident light image may be picked up with the doubled resolution. The present invention, which has been described using the IT CCD, may of course be embodied using a frame transfer COD FT CCD as described in a paper bearing a title 512 x 340 Picture Elements ImageSensor in Journal of Television Institute, pp.536 to 541, July, Vol.33, No.7. A common point in the image sensing operation by the solid state image sensor chip substrate between these COD systems resides in that the signal charges stored in the photosensitive portion of each cell are simultaneously read out during the vertical blanking period. This fact implies that the solid state image sensor chip substrate, if it has the function resemble with that of these COD systems, may be used for the present invention. In the abovementioned embodiments, the shape of the opening 40 was rectangular for ease of explanation.If the opening has other shapes, the number of the sampling points are not decreased. Such shapes may of course be involved in this invention. The IT CCD shown in Figs. 2 and 3 employs photosensitive cells Pij, Pij vertically arrayed in a line in each cell column, as described above. The photosensitive cells may be arrayed in a zig zag fashion. The zig zag arrayed photosensitive portions will further improve the resolution in question. It is evident that this invention is applicable for a color television camera with one, two or three image sensors. If the combination of this invention and the picture elements swinging method as mentioned above is applied for the two or three plate television camera, the resolution is further improved. The amplitude of the vibration is shorter than the cell pitch in the aforementioned embodiments. In the single plate color television camera, the picture element pitch is longer than that of the above mentioned case. Therefore, if the present invention is applied for the single plate color television camera, it is preferable to extend the swing amplitude up to the distance between the adjacent cells, for lessening the moiré signals produced for the color signal. The present invention may change the vibration amplitude so long as the high resolution is kept. The present invention is also applicable for a called two stage sensor in which a photoconductive film is used for the photoelectric conversion, and the conventional silicon single crystal substrate, for example, is used for the read scanning. In the Figs. 4 to 11 embodiments, the time point of the signal charge shift from the photosensitive portions to the vertical CCDs C1 to Ctl is exactly coincident with the time that the vibrating the IT CCD passes the vibration center. This time coincidence between them is not essential in the present invention, however. In contract with this, these timings may be shifted positively. If so, the increased sensitivities of the picture elements of the vibrating COD are superposed to prevent undesirable phenomenon originating from the false signal generation, such as more.