# Method and apparatus for studying corneal curvature.

## Abstract
A quantitative corneascope for use with a surgical mi croscope in performing corrective techniques on the eye includes a pair of hinged image projection housing mem bers 29 movably mounted on each side of a surgical microscope 11 and a light and image source for reflecting partial segments of placido rings mires from the corneal surface of the eye. The microscope utilizes a beam splitter to provide multiple viewing by an operating doctor, an assistant and a television camera. The camera permits view ing of the mires as reflceted from the eye, on a monitor. The monitor is provided with apparatus for generating cursor lines on the viewing surface, which cursor lines represent predetermined radii of curvature corresponding to the range of spherical eye shapes. The cursor lines may be adjusted to discrete values in this range of radii of curvature which in turn changes the spacing between the straight lines of the cursor display. The cursor lines may also be adjusted along the X Y coordinates of the viewing surface. The use of this instrument involves placing the micro scope and surgical corneascope mounted thereon over the patient s eye at a fixed distance. A focus mark is displayed on the viewing surface to accommodate this adjustment. The mires may be reflected from the eye and displayed on the viewing surface. The cursor lines are brought into coin cidence with the mires to provide an image of the preopera tive condition of the eye. This information relating to the pre operative eye condition is stored for later use. The surgical procedure is then performed together with suturing of the eye. The corneascope is again brought into its operative position to show the present condition of the eye as compared to the cursor lines which are set to coincide with the pre operative shape of the eye. The sutures are then adjusted to bring post operative shape into alignment with the preoperative shape. Other uses involve bringing a post corrective shape of the eye into coincidence with a predetermined shape to provide corrected refractive shape to the corneal surface. The quantitative aspect of the mires permits real time refractive error measurement which when compared with cursor lines relating to a predeter mined corneal curvature, permit real time correction of refractive error.