# Insulated connector sheet.

## Abstract
A sheet material for providing electrical connections is provided which gives the needed degree of stability and low resistance with simplicity of application. Electrically conducted elements are dispersed in a polymeric layer and an adhesive is provided which is either the material of the layer or a coating over the elements which adhesive is non tacky at room temperature but softens upon heating while reverting to a nonflowable condi tion on cooling. The electrically conductive elements can protrude above the surface of the polymer in which they are embedded. Electrically conductive layers can be provided over portions of the sheet with the polymeric layer containing electrically conductive elements extending over the whole of the sheet or over only those portions having electrically conductive lower layers.

## Claims
Claims 1. Sheet material adapted to make bonded electrical connections to a substrate comprising a polymeric layer in which are dispersed a monolayer of discrete separated electrically conductive elements substantially as thick as or thicker than said layer characterized in that a thin layer of electrically insulating material is disposed over said monolayer of electrically conductive elements, said layer of insulating material being nontacky or poorly tacky at room temperature, providing an electrical resistance through the layer to the electrically conductive elements of at least one megohm in the test described herein, softening to an adhesive and flowable condition upon heating to an elevated temperature, and upon cooling to room temperature assuming a firm and substantially nonflowable condition, whereby the sheet material is readily handleable and free from conductive bonding at room temperature but may be pressed against said substrate and heated to make a bonded connection in which said conductive elements extend through the insulating layer into electrical connection with the substrate. 2. Sheet material of claim 1 which includes at least one electrically conductive layer underlying said monolayer of electrically conductive elements. 3. Sheet material adapted to make bonded electrical connections to a substrate comprising an electrically conductive adhesive layer carried on an insulating web characterized in that the adhesive layer comprises a non conductive heat activated adhesive material in which are dispersed a monolayer of discrete separated electrically conductive elements substantially as thick as or thicker than the adhesive layer and a thin electrically insulating layer disposed over said monolayer of electrically conductive elements, said insulating layer being nontacky or poorly tacky at room temperature, providing an electrical resistance through the layer to the electrically conductive elements, of at least one megohm in the test described herein, softening to an adhesive and flowable condition upon heating to an elevated temperature, and upon cooling to room temperature assuming a firm and substantially nonflowable condition, whereby the sheet material is readily handleable and free from conductive bonding at room temperature but may be pressed against said substrate and heated to make a bonded electrical connection in which said conductive elements extend through the insulating layer to the substrate. 4. Sheet material of claim 3 which further includes at least one electrically conductive layer supported by the insulating web, and the adhesive layer is disposed in contact with the conductive layer. 5. Sheet material of claim 4 in which there are a plurality of electrically conductive layers covering a limited portion of said insulating web. 6. Sheet material of claim 5 in which said plurality of electrically conductive layers comprise narrow parallel elongated electrically conductive stripes. 7. Sheet material of claim 5 in which the electrically conductive adhesive layer extends over only said plurality of electrically conductive layers. 8. Sheet material of claim 5 in which electrically conductive elements, are disposed over only said electrically conductive layers. 9. Sheet material of claim 5 in which electrically conductive adhesive extends over the insulating web covering both the electrically conductive layers and spaces between the layers. 10. Sheet material of claim 7, 8 or 9 in which said insulating material extends over the insulating web covering both the electrically conductive layers and spaces between the layers. 11. Sheet material as described in claim 6 in which electrically conductive adhesive is disposed over only the electrically conductive stripes the outer surface of the electrically conductive adhesive is elevated above the outer surface of the tape between the electrically conductive stripes and the thin layer of electrically insulating material extends over the whole web and is a substantially constant thickness layer which follows the contour of the elevated adhesive covered electrically conductive stripes and non elevated areas between the stripes. 12. Sheet material of claim 7 in which a different adhesive material is dispersed between the electrically conductive layers. 13. Sheet material any of claims 5 12 in which the exterior surface of the insulating layer is contoured, with portions located above the electrically conductive layers, being higher than areas between the layers. 14. Sheet material of any of claims 1 13 in which the electrically conductive elements have an average thickness greater than the average thickness of the polymeric layer or adhesive layer, and the top edge of substantially each element is higher than at least part of the exterior surface of the polymeric or adhesive layer surrounding the element. 15. Sheet material adapted to make bonded electrical connections to a substrate comprising an adhesive layer which softens to an adhesive condition upon heating to an elevated temperature, and subsequently hardens to exhibit a firm and substantially nonflowable condition at room temperature and a monolayer of discrete separated electrically conductive elements dispersed in the adhesive layer characterized in that the electrically conductive elements have an average thickness greater than the average thickness of the adhesive layer, and the top edge of substantially each element is higher than at least part of the exterior surface of the adhesive layer surrounding the element. 16. Sheet material of claim 15 in which the average thickness of the adhesive layer is between about 60 and 90 percent of the average thickness of the electrically conductive elements. 17. Sheet material of claim 15 or 16 in which the electrically conductive elements are separated on average by a distance equal to at least the average diameter of the elements. 18. Sheet material of any of claims 15 or 16 in which the average thickness of the electrically conductive elements is 100 micrometers or less, and the adhesive layer has an average thickness of 90 micrometers or less. 19. Sheet material of any of claims 15 18 which includes a flexible backing on which the adhesive layer is carried. 20. Sheet material of claim 19 in which the backing is a polyester film of about 50 micrometers thickness or less. 21. Sheet material of claim 19 or 20 which includes an electrically conductive layer between the flexible backing and the adhesive layer. 22. Sheet material of claim 21 which includes a plurality of electrically conductive layers in the form of narrow parallel electrically conductive strips. 23. Sheet material of claim 22 in which electrically conductive elements are disposed in the adhesive layer only over the electrically conductive stripes. 24. Sheet material of claim 22 or 23 in which the exterior surface of the adhesive layer is configured so that at least part of the exterior surface that overlies spaces between the conductive stripes is recessed below other areas of the surface. 25. Sheet material of any of claims 1 24 in which the adhesive layer is a hot tackifying adhesive which exhibits a probe tack value of at least 75 grams of force at a temperature of 40 0C or more. 26. Sheet material of any of claims 1 24 in which at least one of the polymerizing adhesive layer or insulating layer comprises one or more acrylic polymers and 1 acrylic ester monomer provides at least 50 mol percent of the one or more acrylic polymers of the adhesive layer, 2 said one or more acrylic polymers have a Tg or a weight averaged Tg of 10 to 800C, and 3 said adhesive layer has a a Probe Tack Value of less than 75 gf at 200C, b Probe Tack Values of at least 75 gf over a range of at least 500C, which values remain substantially constant after 30 days at 400C, and c a Shear Value of at least 25 minutes at 650C, said adhesive layer adheres well to a clean substrate upon contact at any temperature within said 500C range. 27. Sheet material of claim 26 in which the adhesive layer comprises one or more acrylic copolymer of monomers, up to 50 mol of which is at least one copolymerizable monomer selected from acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, itaconic acid, maleic acid, maleic anhydride, amides of said acids, acrylonitrile, methacrylonitrile, andN vinyl 2 pyrrolidone. 28. Sheet material of claim 26 or 27 in which the acrylic ester monomer is selected from alkyl acrylates having 1 8 carbon atoms in their alkyl groups, alkyl methacrylates having 1 8 carbon atoms in their alkyl groups, bornyl acrylates, bornyl methacrylates, 2 phenoxyethyl acrylate, 2 phenoxymethyl acrylate, the mono and dimethyl and ethyl esters of itaconic acid, and the mono and di methyl and ethyl esters of maleic acid. 29. Sheet material of claim 26, 27 or 28 in which at least one of styrene, vinyl acetate and vinyl chloride comprises up to 5 mol of the total monomers. 30. Sheet material of any of claims 15 24 in which a thin layer of electrically insulating material is disposed over said monolayer of electrically conductive elements, said layer of insulating material being nontacky or poorly tacky at room temperature, providing an electrical resistance through the layer to the electrically conductive elements of at least one megohm in the test described herein, softening to an adhesive and flowable condition upon heating to an elevated temperature, and upon cooling to room temperature assuming a firm and substantially nonflowable condition. 31. Sheet material of any of claims 2 14 in which the electrically conductive adhesive comprises the same monomeric ingredients as the electrically insulating layer. 32. Sheet material of any of claims 1 29 in which the exterior surface of the adhesive layer is contoured, with portions of the surface being recessed at least 10 percent below other portions of the surface.

## Description
Description INSULATED CONNECTOR SHEETTechnical Field This invention relates to sheet materials useful for making adhesive and electrical connections to electronic components.Bakcground Art There is a need in the electronic equipment indus try for means for making convenient and secure electrical connections to sets of small side by side terminal pads, such as the terminal pads of a printed circuit board or a liquid crystal display. A promising technique for making such connections is taught in laid open United Kingdom patent application No. 2,048,582A, which teaches an adhesive connector tape comprising a flexible insulative sheet, a plurality of parallel, separated, electrically conductive stripes carried on the sheet, and an electrically conductive adhesive covering the conductive stripes. Electrical connections can be made by adhering an end of the tape against a set of terminal pads, with individual stripes on the tape in alignment with individual pads. For satisfactory use of sheet material as described, the electrically conductive adhesive in the sheet material must achieve a low resistance bond that is stable for the length of time and under the operating conditions that are expected for the sheet material.Conventional electrically conductive adhesives have not provided the needed degree of stability and low resistance.Initial resistance is too high and or resistance increases during use, to the extent that mechanical clamping techniques are often used to supplement the adhesive bond. Also, a disadvantage of the described connector tape is that the electrically conductive adhesive covering the stripes can unintentionally be brought into contact with other members of an electronic assembly at intermediate portions along the length of the tape, thus introducing undesired electrical connections into the assembly. Such unintentional contacts could be avoided by covering the intermediate portion of the tape with an insulating layer, as has been done with some miniature flat cables of the prior art see U.S. Pat. 4,113,981 which describes a cable comprising a flat sheet carrying electrically conductive stripes . However, such an intermediate covering of a cable is inconvenient and uneconomic, since it requires applying insulating material in specific lengths for specific uses.Application in specific lengths is a more difficult operation, and it requires maintaining an inventory of cables of different insulated lengths for different jobs. Alternatively, insulation must be removed from the end portions of the cable, which is difficult and not adapted to speedy automated operations.Disclosure of Invention The present invention provides a new electrically conductive adhesive sheet material which in preferred embodiments is insulated over its full adhesive surface and yet can be directly bonded and electrically connected to an electronic component in one operation. In one form this new product includes an electrically conductive layer, such as a layer of metal vapor coated onto an insulating sheet, to provide electrical conductivity in the plane of the sheet material. In other forms such a conductive layer is omitted, and the adhesive sheet material is a transfer adhesive, which may be applied between adherends that have such conductive layers, or adhered to a tape having such a conductive layer, etc. In both forms, sheet material of the invention generally comprises a polymeric or adhesive layer in which are dispersed a monolayer of discrete separated electrically conductive elements, such as metal particles, which are substantially as thick as or thicker than the layer. A thin electrically insulating layer is disposed over the monolayer of electrically conductive elements and comprises an electrically insulating material which is nontacky or poorly tacky at room temperature i.e., 200C. , provides an electrical resistance through the layer to the electrically conductive elements of at least about one megohm in the test described herein, softens to an adhesive and flowable condition upon heating to an elevated temperature, and upon cooling to room temperature resumes a firm and substantially nonflowable condition.The described sheet material is readily handleable and free from conductive bonding at room temperature, but, it may be pressed against a substrate and heated to make a bonded connection in which the electrically conductive elements extend through the insulating layer into electrical connection with the substrate. The polymeric or adhesive layer in which the electrically conductive elements are dispersed is generally carried on a flexible backing, and one or more electrically conductive layers may also be carried on the backing or may constitute the backing. The adhesive layer preferably softens to an adhesive condition upon heating to an elevated temperature, and subsequently hardens to exhibit a firm and substantially nonflowable condition at room temperature. And the electrically conductive elements dispersed in the adhesive layer preferably have an average thickness greater than the average thickness of the adhesive layer, with the top edge of substantially each element being higher than at least part of the exterior surface of the adhesive layer surrounding the element. During bonding of the described preferred sheet material to a substrate, the adhesive around a conductive element is pressed into contact with the substrate and forms an adhesive bond to the substrate. The backing, on which the adhesive layer is carried, is also pressed toward the substrate and conforms around the conductive element, which is thicker than the adhesive layer. The backing appears to be held in tension around the conductive element and to place the conductive element under compression against the substrate. With the adhesive layer in a firm and substantially nonflowable condition and with the electrically conductive elements held against the substrate, connections are formed that have low resistance and maintain that low resistance over a long useful life. The utility of sheet material of the invention contrasts with previous experience with commercial pressure sensitive adhesive connector tape products of the type described in U.S. Pat. 3,475,213. Those tapes use a pressure sensitive adhesive layer coated onto an electrically conductive backing, typically a metal foil, with a monolayer of relatively large particles dispersed in the adhesive layer. The particles in these tapes were substantially the same thickness as the adhesive layer and sometimes were more thick than the adhesive layer.However, these tapes do not always achieve low resistance electrical connections unless clamps are used to hold the tape against a substrate. Apparently, the force holding the particle against the substrate gradually decreases after the tape has been adhered in place as a result of flow of the adhesive. Despite such prior experience, preferred sheet material of the invention incorporates a layer of an insulating material in sufficient thickness to provide electrical insulation and physical protection, and yet reliable and secure electric connections can be made through the insulating layer using heat and pressure. The heat and pressure cause the insulating material to be displaced from over the electric conductors, and the insulating material is retained in its displaced position by the cooling of the insulating material to a firm condition. A low resistance electric connection is formed, which is retained over a long useful life. Typically, sheet material of the invention takes the form of an elongated tape which is wound upon itself in roll form for convenience in storage and use. Also, a plurality of electrically conductive layers are typically included as narrow parallel elongated stripes, with the stripes supported on an elongated insulating web, laterally spaced from one another, and extending the length of the insulating web. Connections are thus conveniently made between terminal substrates which comprise a plurality of separated side by side terminal pads. However, other configurations of conductive stripes or paths besides parallel stripes are used in some embodiments of sheet material of the invention for special applications.Brief Description of Drawings Figure 1 is an enlarged perspective view of an end portion of an illustrative electrical connector tape of the invention Figure 2 is a sectional view through the illustrdtive electrical connector tape of the invention shown inFigure 1 and Figures 3 5 are sectional views through different illustrative electrical connector tapes of the invention.Best Mode for Carrying Out the Invention The illustrative tape 10 shown in Figures 1 and 2 comprises a flat electrically insulating sheet 11, electrically conductive stripes 12, a non conductive adhesive material 13 coated over the conductive stripes, electrically conductive particles 14 dispersed in the adhesive material, and a thin layer 15 of electrically insulating material coated over the whole top surface of the tape. The flat electrically insulating sheet 11 typically comprises a film, such as a film of polyethylene terephthalate or polyimide, or a resin impregnated fibrous web. In preferred constructions, the sheet should be flexible so that it will conform around the electrically conductive elements during a bonding operation and allow the adhesive carried on the backing to contact the substrate to which a bond is being made. Preferred films have a flexibility on the order of a 25 or 50 micrometer thick film of polyethylene terephthalate. However, less flexible films can be used, generally by using greater pressure during a bonding operation and by using somewhat thicker adhesive layers, so that the film need not conform as greatly as it does with thinner adhesive layers. The electrically conductive stripes 12 typically comprise a layer of metal, such as silver, gold, aluminum, or copper vapor deposited onto the flat sheet. Other conductive layers can be used instead, such as a metal foil which may constitute the whole backing or may be adhered to the flat sheet with adhesive , or a layer of metal sputtered onto the flat sheet, or a layer formed from a conductive coating composition or ink, typically comprising a coating vehicle and conductors such as metal or carbon particles. The adhesive material 13 is a heat activated material which forms an adhesive bond during a heating operation. During the heating operation the adhesive material wets out a substrate to which adhesion is to be made. Subsequently, either by cooling or reaction of the ingredients, the adhesive hardens and sheet material of the invention and conductive particles are held in place with respect to an adherend. At this point the adhesive material is either nontacky or poorly tacky. A preferred adhesive material, known as a hottackifying adhesive, is described in a copending application filed on or about December r 1982. As described in that application, the adhesive material is nontacky or poorly tacky at 200C, but becomes pressure sensitive and aggressively tacky when heated. Good bonds are immediately formed at a tackifying temperature without any need for crosslinking or other chemical reactions.The adhesive material comprises an acrylic polymer or mixture of acrylic polymers of at least one alkyl acrylate and or methacrylate ester monomer here called acrylic ester monomer , and differs from prior art adhesive materials in that 1 acrylic ester monomer provides at least 50 mol percent of the one or more acrylic polymers of the adhesive layer, 2 said one or more acrylic polymers have a Tg glass transition temperature or a weight averaged Tg of 100 to 800C, 3 a layer of the adhesive material has a a Probe Tack Value as defined below of less than 75 grams of force gf at 20 C, b Probe Tack Values of at least 75 gf over a range of at least 500C, which values remain substantially constant after 30 days at 400C, and c a Shear Value as defined below of at least 25 minutes at 650C, and 4 up to 50 mol percent of the one or more acrylic polymers can be provided by copolymerizable monomer having a polar group, such as acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, itaconic acid, maleic acid or anhydride, the amides of said acids, acrylonitrile, methacrylonitrile, and N vinyl 2 pyrrolidone. The one or more acrylic polymers may be a homopolymer of an acrylic ester monomer which provides a Tg within the range of 10 to 800C, e.g., methyl acrylate, or a copolymer of acrylic ester monomer and copolymerizable polar monomer having a Tg within that range. Useful acrylic ester monomers which homopolymerize to a Tg of at least 100 include methyl acrylate, methyl methacrylate, ethyl methacrylate, propyl methacrylates, butyl metharyles, bornyl acrylates, bornyl methacrylates, 2 phenoxyethyl acrylate, 2 phenoxymethyl acrylate, the mono and dimethyl and ethyl esters of itaconic acid, and the mono and di methyl and ethyl esters of maleic acid. Useful acrylic ester monomers which provide reduced Tg include ethyl, butyl, and octyl acrylates, and n amyl, hexyl and octyl methacrylates.A copolymer of 43 mol percent of methyl methacrylate, 53 mol percent of methyl acrylate and 4 mol percent of acrylamide had a Tg of about 500C. A copolymer of 73 mol percent of methyl metharylate, 19 mol percent of methyl acrylate, 4 mol percent of ethyl acrylate, and 4 mol percent of acrylamide had a Tg of about 790C. The described hot tackifying adhesive material becomes pressure sensitive and aggressively tacky when heated, typically for use inthis invention to a temperature of about 400C or above, and preferably 750C or above. When later subjected to temperatures at or even above the bonding temperature, adequate bonding strength may be retained. Electrically conductive particles may be dispersed into the adhesive material to form a conductive bond, and the particles and adherends tend to be retained in their bonded position by the firm adhesive material at elevated temperatures as well as room temperature. Other copolymerizable monomers may also be employed in small amounts without detracting from the value of the acrylic copolymer for the purposes taught in the application. Among such copolymerizable monomers are styrene, vinyl acetate and vinyl chloride, each of which can be used in amounts up to about 5 mol percent of the total monomers. Other heat activated adhesive materials that can be used are hot melt adhesive materials, which are typically thermoplastic materials that soften to a flowable state and then cool to form an adhesive bond, and reactive compositions, such as epoxy based adhesives. Sheet material in which the adhesive is pressure sensitive at room temperature may also benefit from the present invention, i.e., by the use of electrically conductive elements in a size relationship as taught herein with the layer of pressure sensitive adhesive on a flexible backing, especially under circumstances in which the bonded electrical connection to be made with the sheet material does not experience high ambient temperatures and pressures. The conductive particles 14 in the sheet material of the invention shown in Figures 1 and 2 are flattened to a generally common thickness. For example, a sieved batch of originally spherical particles may be passed through nip rolls such as in a paint mill see U.S. Pat. 3,475,213.The flattened particles are especially desirable because they tend to lie on their flattened side, and a high percentage of the particles participate in conducting electrically through the adhesive layer in an adhesive bond. Spherical particles are also useful, especially when screened within narrow size ranges so that a high percentage of the particles are of about the same size.The particles should be sufficiently firm or rigid so as to penetrate through the insulating layer during a bonding operation. The particles are usually metal, preferably silver but alternatively copper or aluminum for which additives as described in U.S. Pat. 3,475,213 are desirable to achieve compatibility , or various other metals, metallized particles such as glass beads, carbon particles, etc. Also, electrically conductive elements may take the form of material embossed from a conductive backing, such as the embossed protrusions from a metal foil taught inU.S. Pat. 3,497,383. Or small particles clustered closely together may comprise an electrically conductive element. The particles can range in thickness from at least 10 to 500 micrometers, though the preferred range for presently contemplated products is about 20 to 100 micrometers, and the adhesive layer can range in thickness from at least 6 to 450 micrometers. The average thickness of the adhesive layer is determined by measuring the approximate volume of adhesive material in the layer, and dividing that volume by the area of the sheet material. It is generally difficult to obtain good adhesive bonds to a substrate if the average thickness of the adhesive layer is less than about sixty percent 60 of the average thickness of the electrically conductive elements, but lasting low resistance electric connections are achieved in preferred constructions by making the adhesive layer significantly thinner than the electrically conductive elements, i.e., with an average thickness generally about ninety percent 90 or less of the average thickness of the conductive elements. Best results are obtained when the average thickness of the adhesive layer is about 70 to 80 percent of the average thickness of the electrically conductive elements. As a corollary to the above discussion, and as a further contribution to lasting low resistance electric connections, the top edge of substantially all the electrically conductive elements in preferred constructions is higher than at least part of the adhesive layer surrounding the particles. That is, the dimension 16 of substantially each particle 14 in Figure 1 is greater than the dimension 17 of the adhesive layer at at least some points on the exterior surface of the adhesive by surrounding the particle. Preferably, the whole of substantially each particle is encircled by an area of the adhesive layer that is less high than the top edge of the electrically conductive element.Also, the electrically conductive elements are preferably substantially all separated on average by at least the average diameter of the elements, and more typically four or five times or more the average diameter, so as to allow the backing to conform around the elements during a bonding operation. On the other hand, the electrically conductive elements preferably occupy at least 2 percent, and more preferably at least 4 percent, of the area of the sheet material. The layer 15 of electrically insulating material provides useful electrical insulation even though it should be thin, on the order of 10 micrometers in thickness over the conductive particles 14 in a construction as shown inFigures 2 3. Resistances through the layer 15 to the conductive particles of at least one megohm should be achieved. Resistance is measured by laying a test sample over a one centimeter square copper substrate, with the exterior surface of the insulation layer of the sample against the substrate, and laying a 500 gram weight over the test sample at room temperature. Electrical connection has previously been made between a metal conductor and the conductive layer in the test sample, e.g., the stripes 12 in the sheet material shown in Figures 1 and 2, by heat and pressure.A voltage of 5 volts is applied to the metal conductor, with the copper substrate maintained at ground, and the resistance in the circuit measured. The insulating layer 15 preferably comprises the same or a similar material as the adhesive material 13 in which the conductive particles 14 are dispersed. The hot tackifying adhesive taught in the previously mentioned copending application is a preferred material. One advantage is that it is adhesive over a wide temperature interval so that adhesive connections can be maintained even though the bond area has not cooled to room temperature. In some cases the insulating layer may comprise a different variety of hot tackifying adhesive, such as a variety having a lower glass transition temperature Tg than the adhesive material in which conductive particles are dispersed. The higher, adhesive material offers greater firmness at room temperature, while the lower Tg insulating layer flows readily and assists in formation of a desired adhesive bond.Other adhesive materials such as hot melt adhesives or reactive compositions may also be used. In the embodiment of sheet material shown inFigures 1 and 2, the particles 14 are only partially embedded in the layer of non conducting adhesive material 13. Also, the insulating layer 15 is of a rather constant thickness and conforms to the profile left by the protruding particles. The result is that there is generally a small valley between adjacent particles, into which insu lating material may advantageously be displaced during a bonding operation. The displacement of insulating material is also aided by the fact that the adhesive material 13 and particles 14 are disposed over only the electrically conductive stripes 12, thus leaving a further valley between adjacent stripes. In less preferred embodiments of sheet material of the invention the exterior surface of the insulating layer is planar, as for example, when the conductive particles are immersed in an adhesive layer substantially as thick as the particles. Such embodiments are preferably used with terminal substrates that apply higher pressure at the locations where a bond is to be made so as to displace the insulating material. For example, the terminal pads may be slightly raised so as to apply additional pressure on the insulating and adhesive materials between the terminal pads and electrically conductive stripes or layer. The embodiment of sheet material shown in Figure 1 and 2 illustrates another desirable feature of sheet material of the invention. That is, it is desirable for the adhesive surface of the sheet material to be profiled, with at least part of the surface of the adhesive, for example, the part that overlies spaces between the electrically conductive stripes, being recessed below other areas of the adhesive surface. Accordingly, some adhesive material in the area of the conductive stripes can be displaced during the bonding operation into te recessed areas between the stripes, and the electrically conductive elements become held in closer electrical association with the substrate. Such displacement occurs in proportion to the degree of flowability of the adhesive material and the degree of heat and pressure applied to the adhesive material during th bonding operation. A hot tackifying adhesive material may not flow extensively during a bonding operation, so that the flexible backing may conform to the profiled thickness of the adhesive layer. Desirably recessed areas of the adhesive layer are recessed at least 10 percent and preferably at least 25 percent, below the average height of the non recessed areas of the adhesive layer. The insulating layer 15 in the embodiment of Figure 1 and 2, is of a rather constant thickness and conforms to the profile left by the protruding particles and adhesive material 13. After bonding to a substrate, the contact surface of sheet material of the invention generally follows the surface of the substrate. The terminal substrates with which sheet material of the invention is used lnay be planar, with terminal pads embedded in the substrate and coplanar with the rest of the substrate, in which case sheet material of the invention forms a generally planar full area contact with the substrate. Preferably, however, as discussed above, the terminal pads are slightly raised.In the finished bond the electrically conductive elements occupy a sufficient proportion of the thickness of the adhesive bond to allow any necessary dielectric breakdown through the adhesive material and achieve conduction between the conductive stripe and a substrate to which the sheet material is adhered. Preferably, the electrically conductive elements occupy a minor proportion of the area in the plane of a bond so as to leave substantial area in which adhesive contacts the adherend, and they cover a small area relative to the area of the electrically conductive stripes. Together, the adhesive material and electrically conductive elements provide an electrically conductive adhesive layer which is conductive through the layer but not laterally within the layer. As shown in Figure 3, in some embodiments of the invention electrically conductive adhesive 20 extends over the whole surface of one side of sheet material of the invention, thereby avoiding the necessity for limited coating of the electrically conductive adhesive over only an electrically conductive stripe.Since the electrically conductive adhesive is not conductive laterally, the adjacent stripes 21 remain electrically isolated from one another. The conductive particles 22 in the electrically conductive adhesive make connection only through the adhesive layer from the electrically conductive stripe 21 to a terminal pad with which the stripe is aligned. Another variety of sheet material of the invention shown in Figure 4 includes an electrically conductive backing 24 which extends over the full extent of the sheet material. Sheet material having such a backing, which may take the form, for example, of a metal foil or a metalcoated polymeric film, is useful for making ground connections, as between a metal chassis and a part mounted on the chassis. Figure 5 illustrates a different embodiment of the invention in which both an insulating layer 26 and electrically conductive adhesive 27 are applied over only the electrically conductive stripes 28, and the spaces between the stripes are filled with a different adhesive 29. For example, a pressure sensitive adhesive may be used to give the sheet material room temperature adhesion to a substrate, which is later supplemented by heating the insulating layer and electrically conductive adhesive over the stripes 28 to an adhesive condition. Also, a hot melt or reactive adhesive could fill the spaces between stripes. Sheet material of the invention, especially when an elongated tape to be wound upon itself in roll form, preferably includes a low adhesion backsize on the non adhesive side, or a release liner disposed over the insulating layer. Also, primers may be applied to a polymeric or metallic backing to promote adhesion to an adhesive or insulating layer carried on the backing. Sheet material of the invention is generally applied by aligning an end of the tape over the desired substrate to which connection is to be made, pressing the sheet material against the substrate, and at the same time heating the sheet material. Transfer adhesive sheet materials of the invention may be placed between desired adhesives and a bonded electrical connection made by applying heat and pressure. In such transfer adhesive sheet materials electrically conductive elements may be dispersed in an adhesive material which forms a support web for the elements, and an insulating layer may be disposed on one or both sides of the particle containing web and the elements may protrude from both sides of the web.Alternatively, the material in which the particles is dispersed is a non adhesive polymeric film, and adhesion is provided by the insulating layer. Similarly, the layer 13 in a product as shown in Figure 1 and 2 may be non adhesive, e.g., because of reaction to a durable, firm state. The invention will be further illustrated by the following examples. Example 1 A film of polyethylene terephthalate 25 micrometers thick was vapor coated on one surface through a slotted mask to form 875 micrometer wide continuous stripes of silver spaced 875 micrometers apart. The stripes were approximately 400 angstroms 40 nanometers thick and had an electrical resistance of 4 ohms per centimeter length.Electrically conductive adhesive was prepared by mixing 94.9 volume parts of acrylic terpolymer which comprised 10.4 weight percent methyl methacrylate, 85.6 weightpercent methyl acrylate, and 4 weight percent acrylamide dissolved in ethyl acetate, and 5.1 volume parts of silver particles. The particles had been sieved through a 140 mesh screen U.S. standard 105 micrometer mesh size and retained on a 170 mesh screen 88 micrometers and then passed through a roller mill to flatten the particles to approximately 48 micrometers thickness. The mixture of adhesive and particles was applied in registry over the conductive stripes by coating through an apertured mask.After drying, the adhesive terpolymer occupied a thickness of approximately 20 micrometers. An insulating layer of acrylic terpolymer comprising 40 weight percent ethyl acrylate, 56 weightpercent methyl acrylate, and 4 weight percent acrylamide dissolved at about 25 weight percent solids in ethyl acetate was then applied over the whole surface of the sheet material by bar coating, thereby covering the adhesive coated stripes and the film backing between the stripes. After drying, a rather constant thickness layer approximately 10 micrometers thick was formed, as shown inFigure 2. The ratio of the combined thickness of the adhesive layer and insulating layer 30 micrometers to the average thickness of the particles was 62.5 percent. The resistance through the layer as measured by the method described above was about 1000 megohms. For comparison a similar tape without the insulating layer was prepared and found to exhibit 10 ohms resistance. One end of the tape of this example was adhered to the electrically conductive terminal pads of a printed circuit test board by pressing the tape against the substrate with a force of 150 pounds per square inch 10.5 kilograms per square centimeter and heating the end of the tape to a temperature of l700C. for 5 seconds. After the connection had been allowed to cool, the resistance at the connection was measured by the four terminal resistance method and found to be 10 milliohms. The backing was roughened in the manner shown in Figure 2. The peel strength of the bond to the substrate was also measured according to ASTM D 1000 and found to be 2.5 to 5 pounds per inch width .45 to .9 kilograms per centimeter . Example 2 Two different tapes of the type described inExample 1 were prepared using particles having a flattened thickness of approximately 40 micrometers, sufficient adhesive material in mixture with the particles to provide an adhesive layer approximately 15 micrometers in thickness, and insulating layers of two different thicknesses one Example 2A approximately 9 micrometers and the other Example 2B approximately 21 micrometers.The ratio of the combined thickness of the adhesive layer and insulating adhesive layers to the average particle was 60 for Example 2A and 90 for Example 2B. Pieces of tape were cut to size and bonded between the conductive pads of a printed circuit board and indium tin oxide ITO vaporcoated surface on a glass test panel using a pressure of 200 psi at l500C for five seconds. The multiple connections made by each tape to the ITO test panel were monitored for individual contact resistances using a four wire ohms method. The test panel was cycled between 400C and l050C every four hours. Table I below shows the results for the maximum contact resistance observed during the reported test period.The data demonstrates stable electrical performance during the stated thermal cycling for the construction using adhesive thickness in the range of 60 percent of particle thickness, and poor electrical performance when adhesive thickness is 90 percent of particle thickness. In other tests, with less temperature cycling and shorter times, tapes with a 90 percent adhesive thickness to particle thickness ratio have provided adequate stability. TABLE I Effects of Adhesive Thickness on Performance in Thermal Age Testing Ratio of Maximum Individual Conductor BondExample Adh particle Resistance to ITO Surface Ohms No. Thickness Initial 100 hours 1000 hours 2A 60 242 289 167 2B 90 267 10,000 10,000 1 The Probe Tack Value is determined as described in ASTMD 2979 except in the following respects 1. To provide Probe Tack Values at various test temperatures, the probe and the annular weight are heated to the test temperature, except that the annular weight is never heated above 2200C. 2. The probe end is an annul us having inner and outer diameters of 3.83 and 5.10 mm. 3. The annular weight is 19.8 grams. 4. Ten second dwell.2 The Shear Value is determined by heating a bright annealed stainless steel panel in an oven for 15 minutes at 1150C. above the weight averaged Tg of the adhesive polymer. With the steel panel horizontal, part of a tape 1.27 cm in width is adhered to the steel panel using a 2.04 kg hand roller conforming to Federal Standard 147, giving 2 passes in each direction. The length of tape adhering to the panel is trimmed to exactly 1X27 cm in length and this assembly is left at the bonding temperature for 15 minutes longer. The plate is transferred to an oven having a shear stand which allows a 20 backward tilt of the panel at its top shear weight will force tape toward panel slightly . After 15 minutes at 650C., a one kilogram weight is hung from the free end of the tape. The time after which the weight falls is the 650C. Shear Value.