# Thickened moulding compositions.

## Abstract
A reinforced unsaturated resin composition contains an unsaturated polymer, e.g. an unsaturated polyester, a vinyl ester polymer or a urethane acrylate polymer, a vinyl monomer and, as thickener, a crystalline polyester.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A reinforced unsaturated resin composition containing an unsaturated polymer, a vinyl monomer and a thickener, characterized in that the thickener is a crystalline poly ester. 2. A reinforced resin composition according to claim 1, wherein the glycol of the crystalline polyester is neopontyl glycol, 1,6 hexanediol or 1,4 cyclohexanedimethanol. A A reinforced unsaturated resin composition according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein at least a part of the acic of 10 the crystalline polyester is fumaric acid. 4. A reinforced unsaturated resin composition according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein at least a part of the acid is a symmetrical aromatic saturated dicarboxylic acid. 15 5. A reinforced unsaturated rein composition according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the mount of crystalline polyester present in the composition is from 10 to 50 by weight of the total weight of the composition. 6. A reinforced unsaturated resin composition according to 20 any one of the preceding claims, wherein the unsaturated polymer is a polyester, a vinyl ester polymer or a urethane acrylate 7. A reinforced unsaturated resin composition according to any one of the preceding claims which additionally contains a 25 filler. A A reinforced unsaturated resin composition according to any one of the preceding cl ims, which is a dough, bulk, or sheet moulding composition. 9. A reinforced plastics article formed by moulding a reinforced unsaturated resin composition characterized in that the resin composition is a composition according to any one of the preceding claims.

## Description
THICKENED MOULDING COMPOSITIONS This invention relates to thickened reinforced unsaturated resin compositions suitable for moulding. Moulding compositions based on unsaturated polyester resins normally consist of resin, filler, catalyst for curing, internal mould release agents and reinforcing fibres.The original compositions were in the form of a putty known as dough moulding compounds DMC . Following the discovery that the incorporation of certain Group II oxides and hydroxides such as CaO, Ca OH 2, MgO, Mg OH 2 caused thickening of the resin system, compositions known as bulk moulding compounds BMC which were tack free and sheet moulding compounds SMC became available. BMC was originally based on chopped glass fibres whilst SMC was based on chopped strand mat and, after compacting, was rolled up between sheets of polyethylene. After about 3 days the polyethylene could be readily peeled off to yield a tack free sheet which could be loaded into a heated press and moulded at temperatures of 120 150 C under pressure. The thickening of resin by Group II metal oxides hydroxides is due to a combination of the formation of covalent bonds and co ordination bonds. It is difficult to control. Ideally the impregnation mix should be low in viscosity to allow good impregnation of the fibres, should thicken rapidly after impregnation and should reach z maximum viscosity which does not ch2nge on storage. Such behaviour is represented by a graph of viscosity vs. time days marked ID7EL in the accompanying drawing. What actually happens when using such metal oxides hydroxides is also shown in another graph of the accompanying drawing marked TYPICA1 SMC .The rate and extent of thickening depends on the resin used to such an extent that not only the normal resin parameters have to be controlled i.e. acid value and viscosity but also hydroxyl value and molecular weight distribution. In addition, since the metal oxide hydroxide is influenced by the presence of moisture and carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, special storage precautions are required to prevent even further variations in maturation on storage. It is also known to make other types of thermosetting resins, e.g. vinyl esters, into BNCs and SACS, but it has previously been necessary to make special modifications to the resins to allow the thickening reaction with Group II oxides and hydroxides to occur, this being because the standard vinyl ester resins often have very low acid values. All of the abovementioned compositions were highly filled, but if unfilled systems were required either the filler was omitted or a solvent based resin was pre impregnated on to reinforcing fibres, the solvent removed and the resulting tacky prepreg rolled up between sheets of film.However, the sheets of film were difficult to remove from these prepregs due to the tackiness of the pre impregnated fibre. One method of overcoming the disadvantages with unfilled pre impregnated reinforcements is described in B.P. 1,319,243 and B.P. 1,318,517. Examples are given in these patents of polyester resins which when blended with styrene monomer are solid and can be used to impregnate reinforcing fibres when molten. We now find surprisingly that crystalline polyester resins can be used to thicken both filled and unfilled unsaturated polymer moulding compositions based on standard resins thus eliminating the need for special resins made for moulding compositions. Because the thickening mechanism is a physical one a nurnber of other advantages occur i no metal oxide hydroxide is required and hence, in contrast to when a metal oxide hydronide is used, no special storage precautions are required to prevent further variations in maturing, ii indeed, no maturation period is required the compositions being ready for moulding as soon as they have cooled, iii storage stability is much improved. An unsaturated resin composition in accordance th the invention is reinforced and contains an unsaturated polymer, a vinyl monomer and, as a thickener, a crystalline polyester. The crystalline polyester is preferably present in the composition in an amount of from 10 50 ,more preferably 15 40 ,by weight of the total weight of unsaturated polymer, vinyl monomer and crystalline polyester. The polyesters used as thickeners in compositions of the invention are those capable of crystallising by virtue of their having a symmetrical structure. They are preferably unsaturated since then, they may also take part in the crosslinking reaction with the vinyl monomer during curing. They may be made by the reaction of sym etrical glycols such as neopentyl glycol, 1, 6 hexanediol and 1, 4 cyclohexanedimethanol with an acid which may be fumaric acid alone for which may additionally contain a minor percentage of a symmetrical aromatic saturated di acid, e.g. terephthalic acid. For ease of handling they may be dissolved in a vinyl monomer, preferably a vinyl aromatic monomer, e.g. styrene, and incorporated in the composition in this form. The unsaturated polymers to which the thickeners are added may be unsaturated polyesters such as those made by reacting one or more glycols with an unsaturated dicarboxylic acid or its anllydride or with a mixture of thc unsaturated dicarboxylic acid or anhydride with a saturated dicarboxylic acid or its anbydride. The unsaturated polyesters may be dissolved in a vinyl type monomer and incorporated in the composition in this form. Optionally, minor amounts of alcohols, polyols, monobasic or polybasic acids may be incorporated in the reaction mixtures from which the unsaturated polyesters are made, which reaction mixtures may also include dicyclopentadiene to modify the polyesters. Other unsaturated polymers which can be made into resin compositions in accordance with the invention using these techniques are Inyl ester polymers which may be prepared by reaction of acrylic or methacrwrlic acid with epoxy resins and urethane acrylate polymers, especially acrylate terminated polyurethanes. The resin composition may additionally contain a filler, which can be selected from, for example, natural or precipitated calcium ccrbonates, clays, silica, talc, mica and alumina hydrate. The composition is reinforced either by admixing a reinforcement, preferably reinforcing fibres, with the other components of the composition or by impregnating it into a fabric made from reinforcement fibres, so providing a prepreg.Whilst the reinforcing fibres will normally be glass fibres they may be substituted wholly or in part by carbon fibres,KEVLAR RTYi or similar aramid fibres, natural fibres e.g.jute, or synthetic fibres. Pigments may be incorporated in the composition if required. The compositions may be cured using free radical catalysts such as organic proxy compounds e.g. t butyl perbenzoatc or perltetals but unfilled com ositions may be cured using light as described in our co pending EuropeanPatent Publication No. 0025359A. Typical mould release agents which may additionally be incorporated in these compositions are zinc stearate andZELEC RTM UN. Any of the thermoplastics normally incorporated into or or SHC to reduce shrinkage may be incorporated in the composition e.g. polyethylene, acrylic co polymers, polystyrene, saturated polyesters and polycaprolactones. Preferred compositions embodying the invention will now be described in more detail with reference to the following Examples Examples 1, 3 and 6 are outside the invention and are given for comparison Example 1 Comparative A composition was prepared by mixing together under high shear Polyester resin 100 parts by weight 2 1 maleate phthalate ester of propylene glycol, 65 solution in styrene Calcium carbonate 140 parts by weight Zinc stearate 5 parts by weight Tertiary butyl perbenzoate 1 part by weight Magnesium oxide 2.5 parts by weight This was made up into a sheet moulding compound with 1 chopped glass rovings 83 parts by weight , by rolling between two polythene carrier films.Maturation for 3 days at 200C was required before the polythene films could be stripped off leaving a stiff, non tacky compound mouldahle in matched steel moulds under pressure at 150 G. Example 2 A composition was prepared by mixing together undies high shear at 600C polyester resin as in Example 1 60 parts by weight Crystalline resin 40 parts by weight Neopentyl glycol fumarate, 70 solution in styrene C2lciuw carbonate 140 parts by weight Zinc stearate 5 parts by weight Fertiary butyl perbenzoate 1 part by weight This mixture was impregnated into 1 chopped glass s 83 parts by weight by the method of Example 1. The resulting sheet moulding compound eas immediately chilled to 20 C, when it was found that the polythene carrier films could be cleanly stripped off, and the compound was immediately ready for moulding as in Example 1.Example 3 Comparative A mixture ss prepared by high shear mixing of Polyester resin 100 parts by weight Propylene glycol fumarate, modified with dicyclopen tadiene, 70 solution in styrene 3,3,5 trimethyl 1,1 bisperoxybutyl cyclohexane 1 part by weight Magnesium oxide 4 parts by weight This mixture was impregnated by hand, between two polythene carrier films, into Woven glass fibre cloth 300 parts and consolidated by rolling. Rapid thickening of the resin caused difficulty in impregnation, and even after several days maturation at 200C the resulting compound remained sticky and unpleasant to handle.Example 4 A mixture was prepared by combining together under high shear at 600C polyester resin as example 3 SO parts by weight Crystalline resin SO parts by weight 1,6 hexanediol fumarate, 70 solution in styrene 3,3,5 trimethyl 1, 1 bisperoxybutyl cyclohexane 1 part by weight The mixture as then impregnated at 60 C by the method of Example 3 into 7oven glass fibre cloth 300 parts. The resulting compound was cooled to 200 C, when the polythene carrier films could be immediately stripped off, and the slightly tacky material was then moulded as inExample 1 into a high strength heat resistant laminate.Example 5 A mixture was prepared by combining together under high shear at 60 C Vinyl Ester Polymer Resin 75 parts by weight Reaction product of acrylic acid with epoxy resin, 55 solution in styrene Crystalline Resin as Example 4 25 parts by weight t Butyl Perbenzoate 1 part by weight Alumina Hydrate filler 160 parts by weight Zinc Stearate mould release agent 5 parts by weight The mixture 75 parts by weight M2S then used to impregnate at 500C 25 parts of 25mm length chopped glass fibre between polyethylene carrier films to produce a sheet moulding compound which was rapidly cooled to 20 C.A firm, non tacky material was obtained from which the polyethylene carrier film could be easily stripped before moulding. The material was moulded at 150 C and 1000 p.s.i. pressure for 3 minutes to produce moulded articles of excellent quality. Example 6 Comparative Using the same e technique as in Example 5 without the warming and cooling the following impregnation mix was usd Vinyl Ester Resin as Example 5 100 parts by weight t Butyl Perbenzoate 1 part by weight Alumina Hydrate 130 parts by weight Zinc Stearate 5 parts by weight magnesium Oxide thickening agent 3 parts by weight h.en impregnated into chopped glass fibres to give a glass content of 25 the material remained wet, sticky and difficult to handle and mould even after several days maturation