# Method for the oral administration of substances in the form of liposomes, and relative pharmaceutical compositions.

## Abstract
Oral pharmaceutical compositions, in form of tablets containing hydrosoluble biologically active compounds and phospholipids, when subjected to the chewing process, form liposomial vesicules containing the active principle and allowing the absorption thereof by the digestive tract.

## Claims
Claims 1. Chewing pharmaceutical compositions, suitable for the oral administration by means of liposomes of biologically active substances, characterized by containing said substances mi xed with phospholipids. 2. Pharmaceutical compositions according to claim 1, characterized in that they contain, as phospholipids, lecithin. 3. Pharmaceutical compositions according to claim 2, characterized in that the lecithin is in form of solid or semi solid granules. 4. Pharmaceutical compositions according to claims 1 3, characterized in that the biologically active substances are hydrosoluble. 5. Pharmaceutical formulations according to claim 4, characterized in that the hydrosoluble biologically active substances compri se cytidin diphosphocholine, phosphocreatine, adenosyl methionine, sulphated polysaccharides and or hydrosoluble vitamins 6. Pharmaceutical compositions according to claims 1 5, characterized in that they are tablets or lozenges, eventually coated with inert substances of the kind normally used in pharmaceutical technique. 7. Process for the preparation of pharmaceutical formulations accord to claims 1 S, characterized in that phospholipids are imbued with aqueous solutions of biologically active substances and that the mixture so obtained is subjected to dehydratation. 8. Process according to claim 7, characterized in that lecithin is used as phospholipids. 9. Process according to claim 8, characterized in that lecithin is in form of solid or semi solid granules. 10. Method for the oral administration by means of liposomes of biologically active compounds, characterized in that said compounds are administered in chewing formulations, solid or semi solid, wherein the substances themselves are mixed with phospholipids. Claims 1. Process for the preparation of chewing pharmaceutical compositions in form of tablets allowing the administration by oral route of hydrosoluble biologically active compounds entrapped in liposomes such as cytidin diphospho choline, phosphocreatine, S adenosyl methioni ne, sulphated polysaccharides and or hydrosolu ble vitamins, characterized in that phospholipids are imbued with aqueous solutions of said biologically active substances and that the mix ture so obtained is subjected to dehydratation. 2. Process according to claim 1, characterized in that lecithin is used as phospholipids. 3. Process according to claim 2, char2cteri zed in that lecithin is in form of solid or se mi solid granules.

## Description
Method for the oral administration of substances in form of liposomes, and relative pharmaceutical compositionsIt is known that liposomes are bodies having a microscopic size diameter in the range oflum forming in special conditions when substances having amphophilic character are placed in acqueous medium. Substances having amphophilic characters are those containing in the molecule a polar moiety and a non polar hydrofobic moiety, not soluble in water.Typical amphophilic substances are phospholipids, or lecithines, and with these substances, as one of the main component, liposomes preparations are prepared. Itis also known that many processes for the preparation of liposomes exist and that the exact structure of the liposomes depends from the preparation s method. A typical process for the preparation of liposomes include evaporating a phospholipids solution, in mixture or not with other substances, for example cho lesterol, in large surface vessel. When the solid has deposited in thin layer on the vessel s walls, an acqueous solution is added by stirring an emulsion is formed wherein liposomes are present by sonication the further formation of smaller liposomes, having more uniform characteristics, is obtained.The liposomes so obtained are sphaeroidal bodies, with vesicular structure, mono or multilamellar, containing in their interior a certain amount of the aqueous solution in which they have been prepared the aqueous solution in the interior of the vesicules is really separated from the rest of the solvent by the phospholipid layers and in such a way substances soluble in water can be sequestered in the liposomes themselves.The preparations of liposomes containing in their interior pharmacologically active substan ces hold a great practical importance because entrapping in liposomes can modify absorption, the kinetics and the metabolism of the substan ces themselves when administered to animzls or man. Particularly, the substances administered in liposomes by oral route, can be protected from enzymatic and non enzymatic degradation, at gastro enteric level, and can be directly absorbed through the intestinal wall, carried by liposomes themselves,The practical use of preparations of liposomes is however hindered by numerous difficulties, some of which are advantageously overcome by the present invention.Particularly, it is necessary to point out the limited stability in time of liposomestprepara tion, the difficulty in producing large amounts of such preparations in homogeneous way, and the scarcity of hydrosoluble material which can be normally entrapped in them.It has now surprisingly found, and this is the main object of the present invention, that determined solid or semisolid formulations of pho spholipids with addition of hydrosoluble substan ces biologically or pharmacologically active, when administered as chewing tablets, form, du ring the chewing process, liposomes in large amounts, containing in their interior the biolo gically active substances. In this way the extem poraneous formation of liposomes is thus obtained together with conglobation of the pharmacologically interesting substances.The chewing formulations prepared according to the invention allow because of the extemporaneous formation of liposomes containing the active principle therapeutic results clearly better than those obtainable with other formula tions administered by oral route. In the case of drugs subject to destruction in the digesti ve tract, and therefore administerable accor ding to the previous art only by parenteral route, the chewing formulations according to the invention have the big advantage of allo wing the administration by oral route. Of course, the formulations herein claimed can be administered both to man and to animals. The formulations according to the invention are obtai ned by mixing aqueous solutions containing the active principle with the phospholipids, and thereafter carrying out a more or less complete water evaporation, in such conditions to avoid the decomposition of heat sensitive active principles preferably the evaporation is carried out under reduced pressure, or in hot air or hot inert gas stream. According to a preferred embodiment, an aqueous solution of active principle is sprayed on granules of phospholipids preferably of lecithin , and contemporaneously or subsequently the water is removed by passing an hot air stream through the mass of granules kept in mixing condi tions.The granules so obtained are then worked up in tablets or lozenges eventually coated with inert substances, of the kind normally used in pharmaceutical technique.The present invention is illustrated by the following example, which however must not be absolu tely considered limitative of the invention itself, which must be considered extended to analogous embodiments according to the background art.EXAMPLEPreparation of chewing tablets containing pho scnoliPids and cytidin dinhosBhocholine or other hydrosoluble and biolozicallwr active substances 1 Kg of commercial soybean lecithin in granu lar form, preferably of the kind used in human feeding, is used as additive. The granules have solid or semi solid consistence. A concentrated 10 in weight aqueous solution of cytidin diphosphocholine, of the kind used in pharmaceutical preparations, is also prepared.The amount of the cytidin diphosphocholine aqueous solution containing 200 g of the substan ce is sprayed on 1 kg of lecithin granules, whi le these are continuously mixed. During or after spraying, the water is evaporated in hot air stream going on with mixing so as to keep the granular aspect of the material. When the water is completely removed, the material is prepared in form of tablets weighing 0.5 1 g and the tablets are eventually coated with an inert substance, for instance mannitole. The ratio cytidin diphosphocholine lecithin can vary within large limits, but preferably it must not overcome the value of 1 to 3 by weight. Also the amount of water in which the cytidin diphosphocholine is dissolved can vary, but preferably the solution should be as con centrated as possible to make easy the further elimination of the water.According to the above mentioned method formu lations containing other hydrosoluble substan ces can be worked up, with results similar to those obtained for cytidin diphosphocholine.For example formulations containing phosphocreatine, formulations containing adenosyl methio nine, formulations containing sulphated polysac charides and formulations of hydrosoluble vitamins and cobalamin have been prepared.Demonstration of linosomes formation from the tablets during chewingThe demonstration ofthe formation of liposomial particles during chewing of the tablets prepared as previously described is obtained in the following way. A tablet is subjected to chewing by volunteers during chewing the material is not ingested, but retained in the buccal cavity at the end of a normal chewing time the content is poured in a glass,It is a very opalescent and viscous liquid in whi ch only few macroscopic granules are present. The observation of the microscopic particles su spended in the liquid is carried out by optical or electronic microscopy. Particularly illustrative are the pictures taken by electronic micro scopy. They show the maximum presence of liposomial mono or multi lamellar formations in form of vesicules having a diameter of some um or less see Figures 1 S . By high speed centrifugation the liposomial particles of the solution can be separated0 Measures of ripartition of cytidin diphosphocho line between the aqueous phase and the vesicules show that a remarkable fraction of the cytidin diphosphocholine initially contained in the tablets has been conglobated in the liposomial particles.