# Flavorants for smoking compositions.

## Abstract
This invention provides a cooked flavorant product which is adapted for incorporation into smoking compositions. The flavorant is the condensation product of single cell, especially yeast, protein hydrolysate and a reducing sugar, optionally with the inclusion of an aldehyde. The reaction is preferably carried out in an alkaline medium, for example pH 7.5 10, at 70 150 DEG C for 0.2 5 hours.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A cooked flavorant which comprises the condensation product of reactants comprising single cell protein hydrolsate and a reducing sugar. 2. A flavorant in accordance with claim 1 wherein the molar ratio of reducing sugar to hydrolysate amino acid content is between 1 1 and 7 1. 3. A flavorant in accordance with claim 1 or 2 wherein the condensation reactants include a aldehyde compound in a quantity between 0.001 and 0.1 mole per mole of reducing sugar. 4. A flavorant in accordance with claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein the protein hydrolysate is a mixture obtained by acid hydrolysis of Baker s yeast, Brewer s yeast orCandida utilis biomass. 5. A flavorant in accordance with any of claims i to 4 wherein the reducing sugar is fructose, glucose, mannose or galactose. 6. A flavorant in accordance with claim 3 wherein the aldehyde compound is acetaldehyde, pyruvaldehyde, butyraldehyde or isovaleraldehyde. 7. A process for preparing a cooked flavorant in accordance with any of claims 1 to 6 which comprises heating an admixture of reactants comprising single cell protein hydrolysate and a reducing sugar in an alkaline aqueous medium to a temperature between 700 and 1500C for a reaction period between 0.2 and 5 hours. 8. A process in accordance with claim 7 wherein the pH of the alkaline aqueous medium is in the range between 7.5 and 10. 9. A process in accordance with claim 8 wherein the alkaline pH is provided by ammonium hydroxide. 10. A smoking composition comprising a filler material selected from tobacco, reconstituted tobacco or non tobacco smoking substitutes, and a flavorant according to any of claims 1 to 6 or produced by a process according to any of claims 7 to 9 preferably in a quantity between 0.01 and 5 percent based on the weight of the filler material.

## Description
FLAVORANTS FOR SIjOYl lIG COMPOSITIONS BLACKROUND O TIlE 3 NvE 1T3 OI The increased demand for low delivery smoking products has necessitated a need for redesigning flavor systems compatible with these products. Low delivery smoking products are generally designed to deliver 15 mg of tar or less. Tar is generally defined as the total particulate matter TPI j that is collected on a Cambridge filter minus the nicotine and water content. Manufacture of low delivery products is generally achieved by use of highly efficient ventilated filters, porous wrappers, modified tobacco blends, and the like.The use of porous wrappers and or ventilated filters results in considerable air dilution of the smoke with a concomitant dilution of flavorants entrained in the smoke. In order to overcome the problem of flavor dilution new systems for flavor incorporation are required. It is generally recognized that simply adding additional amounts of individual flavorants is not feasible in that pronounced pack aroma usually results. Moreover, addition of excessive flavorants to smoking materials may result in increased density of the materials and a decrcase in the filling capacity thereof. A flavor system for low delivery cigarettes having increased impact and full body is therefore desirable to overcome the presently recognized problems.Since reconstituted tobacco is an ideal filler for low delivery cigarettes, it is important that flavor systems be designed that are capable of overcoming the sterin.iy taste generally associated with some reconstituted tobaccos. moreover, it is necessary to design a system wherein the flavorants may be added in extremely low anlounts and still maintain the desired flavor level and physical characteristics described above. The reaction of sugars and amino acids to produce desirable flavorants for smoking materials is one of increasing interest. For example, U.S. patent 3,478,015 describes browning reactions in which an amino acid and a sugar having an active carbonyl are reacted in a lower alkyl polyhydric alcohol solvent in the absence of water at a te.mperature less than 900C for about 5 15 hours. The resultant reaction mixture is applied in an amount of about 16 by weight to tobacco. U.S. patent 3,920,026 describes tobacco flavorants prepared by reacting valine with a carbonyl compound selected from sugars, dihydroxy acetone or pyruvaldehyde. The reaction is conducted in a solvent such as glycerol or propylene glycol and at a temperature between about 120 200 C for 0.5 5 hours depending on the type of sugar used. The reaction mixture may be applied directly on tobacco or may be fractionated to separate the volatile and nonvolatile fractions, which are then used as tobacco flavorants. U.S. patent 3,722,516 discloses the addition of dihydroxyacetone alone or in combination with amino acids to enhance the natural flavor characteristics of tobacco, and especially the caramel like or burned sugar like aroma thereof. Japanese patent 9239 71 discloses certain tobacco perfumes such as l deoxy l L prolino D fructosc, which is a sugar amino acid condensation product. This type compound is prepared by reacting an amino acid with a sugar in an aqueous or alcohol solvent, and usually in the presence of an acid catalyst such as malonic acid. The desired product can be separated and purified by the use of ion exchange resins and thereafter be applied to tobacco. Japanese Patent 3398 73 discloses certain other specific amino acid sugars such as l deoxy l L alanino D fructose that are synthesized from their respective components by theAmadori rearrangement, in the presence of malic acid as catalyst, by heating at 1300C for 15 minutes. The specific compounds are isolated and can be combined with cocoa to produce tobacco flavorants. a Two articles by Koehler J. Agr. Food Chem., 17, No. 2, p. 393 396, 1969 and ibid., 18, No. 5, p. 895 898, 1970 discuss pyrazine formation in sugar amino acid model systems.The normal model system consisted of asparaine and glucose reactants in a 1 1 molar ratio. Diethylene glycol solvent and a small amount of water were also employed. The mixture was heated for 24 hours at 12boC. The use of a base catalyst, such as sodium hydroxide or ammonium hydroxide, resulted in an increase in the production of volatile alkylated pyrazines.In some instances, the addition of an aldehyde such as acetaldehyde appeared tp increase pyrazine formation. The Koehler investigations were related to browning reactions known to occur in foods such as roasted peanuts, coffee, cocoa, and potato chips, and the primary objective was to determined the chemical factors involved in volatile pyrazine formation during these reactions. More recent developments relating to sugaramino acid reaction products such as tobacco flavorant compositions are described in our U.S. patent 4,306,577 and U.S. patent application Serial No. 235,456 filedFebruary 18, 1981 . There is continuing interest in the development of new and improved flavorants for smoking compositions. The invention is characterised by the condensation of reactants comprising single cell protein hydrolysate and a reducing sugar, typically in an alkaline aqueous medium at a temperature between 70 1500C, and for a reaction period between 0.2 and 5 hours. The molar ratio of reducing sugar to hydrolysate amino acid content normally will vary in the range between 1 1 and 7 1 By amino acid content is meant the amino acid constituents which are capable of condensing with the reducing sugar under the process conditions. The term reducing sugar refers to monosaccharides and polysaccharides that reduce copper or silver salts under alkaline conditions. Suitable reducing sugars for the practice of the present invention include glucose, fructose, mannose, galactose, maltose, rhamnose, and the like. The term single cell refers to single cell microorganisms such as bacteria, yeasts, moulds, and fungi. Particularly suitable for the practice of the present invention are yeasts of the genus Saccharomyces such as S. cerevisiae and S. nuaris or yeasts of the genus Candida such as Candida utilis. The term hydrolysate refers to an amino acidcontaining mixture which is produced by hydrolyzing the protein content of a single cell substrate in an acidic aqueous medium e.g., a pH of 1 6 . Preferably, the acidity is provided by phosphoric acid, and the hydrolysis reaction is conducted at a temperature between about 600 1300C for a period between about 0.5 5 hours. In another embodiment, this invention provides a cooked flavorant product which is produced by a process which comprises heating an admixture of reactants comprising single cell protein hydrolysate, a reducing sugar and an aldehyde compound in an alkaline aqueous medium at a temperature between about 70 150 C, typically for a reaction period between about 0.2 5 hours. Preferably the aldehyde compound is employed in a quantity between about 0.001 0.1 mole, per mole of reducing sugar. Suitable aldehyde compounds include those corresponding to the formula R CHO where R is an aliphatic, alicyclic or aromatic radical containing between about 2 12 carbon atoms. The R radical can contain heteroatoms such as oxygen, nitrogen and sulfur, with the proviso that the R radical does not contain any atoms or functional groups which are detrimental for the purposes of the eventual cooked flavorant product applications. Illustrative of aldehyde compounds are acetaldehyde. pyruvaldehyde, butyraldehyde, isovaleraldchyde, benzaldchydc, 3 methoxy A hydroxybenza dehyde, and the ike. An cssential aspect of the present invention method of preparing a cooked flavorant product is the provision of an alkaline aqueous reaction medium, e.g., a pH between about 7.5 10. The said alkalinity serves to hydrolyze any polysaccharides present to monosaccharides, and also serves to enhance the condensation of the reducing sugar and amino acid reactants. The alkalinity can be achieved with a basic reagent such as alkali and alkaline earth metal hydroxides, quatcrnary gamines, and the like. The use of anunonium hydroxide is particularly preferred since it tends to modify and enhance the organoleptic properties of the cooked flavorant product that is produced. The process for preparing a cooked flavorant product can be conducted in a reaction vessel equipped with reflux, stirring and heating means. In a typical procedure the reaction medium at atmospheric pressure is heated gradually until a temperature level of about 90 115 C is achieved e.g.1 for a heating period of about 0.5 5 hours . It is advantageous to quench the reaction medium by dilution with a volume of water after the reaction is completed. A 1 1to about 5 1 dilution with water provides an aqueous flavorant medium which is adapted for direct application to smoking composition filler material. As a further embodiment this invention provides smoking compositions which are prepared by admixing natural tobacco and or reconstituted tobacco and or a non tobacco substitute with a flavorant additive which corrcsponds to a cooked flavorant product of the type described hereinabove. The smoking compositions normally will contain the flavorant additive in a quantity between about 0.001 5 weight percent, and preferably 0.01 5 weight percent, based on the weight of the smoking composition. The invention cooked flavorant product can be incorporated into the smoking composition filler in accordance with methods known and used in the art. Preferably the flavorant additive is dissolved in a solvent such as water, propylene glyccl or mixtures thereof and then sprayed or injected into the tobacco or non tobacco substitute matrix. Such method ensures an even distribution of the flavorat additive throughout the tobacco, and thereby facilitates the productipn of a more uniform smoking composition. Alternatively, the flavorant may be incorporated as part of a concentrated tobacco extract which is applied to a fibrous tobacco web as in the manufacture of reconstituted tobacco.Another suitable procedure is to incorporate the flavorant in tobacco or non tobacco substitute filler in a concentration between about 0.5 5 weight percent, based on the weight of filler, and then subsequently to blend the treated filler with filler which does not contain flavorant additive. Examples of non tobacco substitutes for the purposes of this invention include smoking filler materials such as are disclosed in United States patents 3,529,602 3,703,177 3,796,222 4,019,521 4,079,742 and references cited therein. Illustratively, U.S. 3,529,602 desacribes a burnable sheet which may be used as a tobacco substitute, containing ingredients which include 1 a film forming ingredient comprising a pectinaceous material derived from tobacco plant parts and having an acid value in excess of 30 milligrams of potassium hydroxide per gram, and 2 a mineral ingredient comprising an alkali metal salt, an alkaline earth metal salt or a clay. U.S. 3,703,177 describes a process for preparing a non tobacco smoking product from sugar beet pulp, which process involves the acid hydrolysis of the beet pulp to release beet pectins, and at least an alkaline earth treatment thereafter to cause crosslinking of the pectins and the formations of a binding agent for the exhausted beet matrix. U.S. 3,796,222 describes a smoking product derived from coffee bean hukks, The hulls are treated with reagents that attack the alkaline earth metal crosslinks causing the release of the coffee pectins.The pectins act as a binding agent and together with the treated hulls may be handled and used similarly to a tobacco product. U.S. 4,019,521 discloses a process for forming a smoking material which involves heating a cellulosic or carbohydrate material at a temperature of 1500 7500C in an inert atmosphere for a period of time sufficient to effect a weight loss of at least 60 percent but not more than 90 percent. U.S. 4,079,742 discloses a process for the manufacture of a synthetic smoking product from a cellulosic material, which process involves a pyrolysis step and a basic extraction step to yield a resultant matrix which has a tobacco like brown color and has improved smoking characteristics. The following examples are further illustrative of the present invention. The reactants and other specific ingredients are presented as being typical, but various modifications can be devised and employed in accordance with the invention. 1 XAl PLE I This Exan3e illustrates the preparation of a present invention cooked flavorant product, and the incorporation of the product in a smoking composition. A 30 gram quantity of freeze dried Brewer s yeast S. nuaris is added to 200 milliliters of 85t phosphoric acid in a reaction flask, and the mixture is sparged with nitrogen for ten minutes. The flask is evacuated with a vacuum pump and then sealed. The flask is placed in an autoclave and heated at 1270C for about two hours to provide a protein hydrolysate material. The hydrolysate is recovered, and a 100 gram quantity is separated and admixed with concentrated zzntonium hydroxide to a pH of about 8.0. The alkaline hydrolysate material is charged to a reaction vessel equipped with a reflux condenser, thermometer and stirrer. To the vessel is added about 250 grams of high fructose corn syrup about 72 fructose Clinton CornSweeteners . The admixture in the vessel is heated at 1000C for three hours. The resultant reaction product mixture is diluted 1 1 by volume with water. An aliquot of aqueous cooked flavorant product produced in the manner described above is sprayed on reconstituted sheet to provide a level of about 1.0 weight percent flavorant based on the weight of tobacco sheet. After drying, the tobacco sheet is incorporated into a typicai tobacco blend at 20 wcight percent level. Cigarettes having conventional cellulose acetate filters and designed to deliver about 17 milligrams TPM are fabricated and then smoked by an experienced panel of smokers. Cigarettes of a similar, blend containing conventionally flavored reconstituted tobacco are employed as controls.The cigarettes containing the present invention flavorant are judged to be slightly harsher, hotter, sweeter and more spicy than the control cigarettes. Similar results are obtained when freeze driedBaker s yeast S. cerevisiae is substituted for the Brewer s yeast. In addition, flavorants prepared using Candida utilis hydrolysate are found to be satisfactory. Similar results are obtained when glucose is substituted for the fructose reactant. EXAMPLE II This Example illustrated the amino acid content of single cell protein hydrolysates. In scparate runs, Brewer s yeast, Baker s yeast, andCandida utilis are hydrolyzed for three hours with phosphoric acid in the manner described in Example 1. The amino acid contents of the hydrolysates are as follows Candida Brewer s Yeast Baker s east utilisAmino Acid mg g mg g mq gk Alanine K. 31.1 29.3 28.2Valine 23.3 20.0 22.0Glycine 16.7 16.0 14.9Isoleucine 16.7 14.7 14.8Leucine 31.1 25,3 28.9Proline 18.9 16.0 13.0Threonine 8.9 6.7 9.6Serine 8.9 5.3 8.6Methionine 4.4 2.7 2.7Phenylalanine 16.7 13.3 16.5Aspartic Acid 35.6 30.7 30.7Glutamic Acid 51.1. 41.3 45.6Tyrosine 2.2 2.7 1.5Lysine 26.7 . 26.7 26.7Histidine 7.8 4.0 9.7Arginine 22.2 10.7 18.4Cystine 0.8 . 0.7 0.0TOTAL 323.5 266.1 291.8 mg Amino Acid g hydrolysate EXIiIdPLE III In a manner similar to that described in Sxample I, a protein hydrolysate is prepared by phosphoric acid hydrolysis of Brewer s yeast. A 100.3 gram quantity,of the hydrolysate is treated with concentrated ammonium hydroxide to a pli of 8.4. The alkaline hydrolysate is admixed with 250 grams of high fructose corn syrup and 1.5 grams of isovaleraldehyde, and the admixture is heated at 1000C with stirring for three hours. The resultant product mixture is diluted 1 1 by volume with water. The present invention aqueous cooked flavorant product thus produced is employed to flavor cigarettes for testing by experienced smokers. The cigarettes containing the present invention flavorant are.judged to be slightly harsher and more bitter and spicy than the control cigarettes. EYMPlE IV In a manner similar to Example l, a protein hydrolysate is prepared by phosphoric acid hydrolysis of Candida.utilis. A 100 g quantity of the hydrolysate is treated with concentrated ammonium hydroxide to a pH of 8.6. The alkaline hydrolysate is mixed with 250 g of high fructose corn syrup and heated to low 1000C and held for 2.5 hours. The resultant product mixture is diluted 1 1 with water. Cigarettes are prepared by injecting 5 ml into the tobacco rod of a 17 mg delivery cigarette and smoked by an experienced panel of smokers. Control cigarettes containing a similar blend not treated with the cooked flavorant were smoked and compared to the experimental cigarette. The experimental cigarettes were found to be balanced, had alkaloid character and were less harsh.