# Dismutation of functionalised olefins.

## Abstract
The present invention is a method for the co dismuta tion of a feedstock comprising functional olefins. The feedstock, which has at least one terminally unsaturated ester, is dismuted using a hybrid metathesis catalyst com position which has a tungsten halide and an organometallic compound of the formula R₃R¹M wherein, R¹ is a group selected from an alkyl and an aryl group, R is a group selected from R¹ and a hydrogen atom, and M is a metal atom capable of exhibiting more than one oxidation state, on a support. The activity of this heterogeneous catalyst composition for dismuting terminally unsaturated ester is vastly superior to the corresponding homogeneous systems.

## Claims
Claims 1. A method for the co dismutation of a feedstock comprising at least one terminally unsaturated ester using a hybrid metathesis catalyst composition which comprises a tungsten halide and an organometallic compound of the formula R3R1M wherein, R1 is a group selected from an alkyl and an aryl group, R is a group selected from R1 and a hydrogen atom, and M is a metal atom capable of exhibiting more than one oxidation state, on a support. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein the tungsten halide is a tungsten hexa halide. 3. A method according to claim 1 wherein the organo metallic compound is selected from a monohydrotrialkyl , a tetraalkyl , a monohydrotriaryl and a tetraaryl derivative of the metal. 4. A method according to claim 1 wherein the metal atom M is selected from those in Groups IIB, IIIA and IVA of the Periodic Table of Elements as herein defined. 5. A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the metal is selected from zinc, mercury, aluminium, tin, germanium and lead. 6. A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the organo metallic compound is tetra methyl tin. 7. A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the support used is silica. 8. A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the terminally unsaturated ester is a monoester. 9. A method according to claim 8 wherein the terminally unsaturated ester is one in which the terminal unsaturation is furthest from the functional carboxyl group. 10. A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the terminally unsaturated ester is codismuted with an internally unsaturated ester.

## Description
DISMIJTATION OF FUNCTIONALISED OLEFINS The present invention relates to co dismutation of functionalised terminal olefines using a hybrid metathesis catalyst composition. Dismutation of internal olefins by hybrid tungsten based metathesis catalysts is known. A paper by Mol,J.C. et al entitled, Hybrid Tungsten Based Metathesis Catalysts in the Journal ofMolecular Catalysis, 8 1980 , 185 190 discloses that homogeneous catalyst systems are better for dismuting internal olefinic compounds than the hybrid heterogeneous systems and this relative lack of activity of heterogeneous systems is said to be even more pronounced in the case of unsaturated esters such as methyl oleate. It has now been found that the activity of heterogeneous catalyst compositions for dismuting unsaturated esters which are terminally unsaturated is vastly superior to the corresponding homogeneous systems. Accordingly, the present invention is a method for the dismutation of a feeds to ck comprising at least one terminally unsaturated ester using a hybrid metathesis catalyst composition which comprises a tungsten halide and an organo metallic compound of the formula R3R1M wherein, R1 is a group selected from an alkyl and an aryl group, R is a group selected from R1 and a hydrogen atom, and M is a metal atom capable of exhibiting more than one oxidation state, on a support. The term dismutation as used herein and throughout the specification is meant to include both self dismutation and codismutation with other unsaturated esters. In the hybrid metathesis catalyst composition the tungsten halide is preferably tungsten hexa halide, most preferably tungsten hexa chloride. The organo metallic compound is preferably selected from a monohydrotrialkyl , a tetraalkyl , a monohydrotriaryl and a tetraaryl derivative of the metal. The metal atom M is suitably selected from those in Groups IIB, IIIA and IVA of the Periodic Table of Elements in the 44th Edition of the Handbook of Chemistry andPhysics , Ed. Hodgman, C.D. et al, pp 448 and 449 1963 and published by The Chemical Rubber Publishing Co., Ohio, U.S.A. The metal is preferably selected from zinc, mercury, aluminium, tin, germanium and lead. The organo metallic compound is most preferably tetra methyl tin. The support used is preferably silica. The hybrid metathesis catalyst may be prepared by conventional techniques. For instance, a suspension of tungsten hexachloride and the support eg silica in a solvent such as dichloroethane may be refluxed, allowed to cool, separated from the supernatant liquid and washed repeatedly with the solvent. The resultant tungsten hexachloride silica catalyst for instance is deep red in colour. The terminally unsaturated ester is suitably a monoester and preferably one in which the terminal unsaturation is remote from the functional carboxyl group. The ester may be derived from an unsaturated carboxylic acid which has at least 4 carbon atoms, preferably between 5 and 30 carbon atoms. The terminally unsaturated esters may be codismuted with internally unsaturated esters to produce the corresponding products.Specific examples of internally unsaturated esters which may be codismuted include methyl hex 3 enoate and ethyl pent 3 enoate. The dismutation reaction is suitably carried out by contacting the unsaturated ester with the hybrid metathesis catalyst composition at elevated temperature, preferably by ref fluxing the reactant ester in a solvent such as a chlorinated hydrocarbon in the presence of the catalyst. The dismutation products are then separated and recovered by conventional techniques. The process of the present invention together with the relevantComparative Tests are described below.Examples and Comparative TestsPreparation of Catalyst The materials used were as follows pretreated as indicated. Silica gel Davison Grace 952,B.E.T. surface area 330 cm2g l was activated by heating for 24 hours at 823K in flowing nitrogen and stored under nitrogen. WC16 was used as supplied Koch Light .Tetramethyltin Aldrich and Nonane Aldrich were dried over activated molecular sieves 3 4 A . Dichloroethane was refluxed over activated molecular sieves 3 A 4 R and distilled before use.Methyl pentenoate and undecylenoate were prepared from the corresponding acids and distilled before use. All reactions were carried out in dried glassware under nitrogen. To WCl6 0.4g, 1 x 10 3 mol dissolved in dichloroethane 20ml was added Silica gel 4g Davison Grace 952 . The dark blue suspension was allowed to stand, with occasional stirring for eighteen hours. The supernatant liquid was decolourised after a period of several hours. The resulting suspension was refluxed for 10 minutes, allowed to cool, the supernatent liquid removed and the solid washed repeatedly with dichloroethane 3 x 20ml . The WC16 SiO2 catalyst so formed was deep red in colour. Analysis of the catalyst showed a W content of 4X wt wt representing a loading of 0.08g WCl6 per g silica.Examples 1 3Metathesis of Methyl pent 4 enoate 2 CE2 CHCE2CH2C02CE3 in equilibrium with CH3O2COH2CH2CR CRCH2CR2C02CH3 OH2 5 CH2 General procedure for hybrid reaction To a suspension of WCl6 on silica in dichloroethane was added nonane, tetramethytin and methylpentenoate. The resulting suspension was then refluxed at atmospheric pressure and 80 C, the supernatant remaining clear throughout, while the solid becomes dark blue. Results WCl6 Me4Sn Ester Yield 2 70 85 1 2 120 75 1 2 260 29Comparative Tests not according to the invention General procedure for homogeneous reaction To a solution of WC16 in dichloroethane was added, nonane internal standard , tetramethyl tin co catalyst and methyl pentenoate. The resulting dark blue solution was then refluxed as before. Results WCl6 Me4 Sn Ester Z Yield i 1 2 75 38 ii 1 2 290 21Example 4Metathesis of Methyl Undecyl lO enoate 2 CH2 CH CH2 8 CO2CH3 in equilibrium with CH302C CH2 8CH CH CR2 8 C02CH3 CH2 CH2 The reaction conditions and procedures were as described underExamples 1 3 above.ResultsCatalyst Z Conversion X Conversion after 1 hour after 6 hours WCl6 Si02 Me4Sn 79 96 In all cases WCl6 Me4Sn Ester 1 2 25Comparatives Test iii The procedure of Examples 4 was repeated using a homogeneous catalyst sytem without silica . ResultsCatalyst Conversion Z Conversion after 1 hour after 6 hoursWCl6 Me4Sn 65 80 Examples 5 and 6 and Comparative Tests iv ix These were carried out using different esters but using respectively the same procedure as in Examples 1 3 above andComparative Tests i and ii above. The results are tabulated below TABLE 1Ester CatalystB Yield c Products iv C8 C C C7COOC WCl6 Me4Sn 52 C8 C C C8 COOC C7 C C C7 COOC v WCl6 SiO2 Me4Sn 2 vi C C C9COOC WCl6 Me4Sn 72 C C COOC C9 C C C9 COOC 5 WCl6 SiO2 Me4Sn 96 vii C C C C C COOC WCl6 Me4Sn 38 C2 C C C2 COOC C C C C COOC viii WCl6 SiO2 Me4Sn ix C C C C COOC WCl6 Me4Sn 65 C C COOC C C C C C C COOC 6 WCl6 SiO2 Me4Sn 80 a ester WCl 25 WCl6 Me4Sn 0.33 solvent dichloroethane b WCl6 Me4Sn 0.5 c after six hours at 80 C