# Process for oxidizing phenol to p benzoquinone.

## Abstract
In a process of oxidizing phenol to p benzoquinone with a monovalent copper ion catalyst, the catalyst is modified with water to give improved selectivity to p benzoquinone product.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1.A process for oxidizing phenol to benzoquinone with a monovalent copper salt catalyst selected from halides and nitrate, characterised in that increasead selectivity is obtained by modifying the catalyst with water. 2. A process as claimed in claim 1, which is carried out in a nitrile solvent. 3. A process as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein the catalyst is cuprous chloride. 4. A process as clained in any of claims 1 to 3, wherein the process IS carried out at a temperature of from 600 to 55 C. 5. A process as claimed in any of claims 1 to 4, wherein the water er Is present in a ratio of from 1.0 to 4.0 mmoles per mmole of phenol. 6. A process as calimed in any of claims 1 to 5, which is carried ot in an asetonitrile solvent system. 7. A process as claimed in any of claims to 6, wherein the process is carried out at about 65 C and the water is present in a ratio of from 1.25 to 2.50 moles per mole of phenol. 8. A process as claimed in any of claims to 7, carried out in a solvent system ehich is a mixture of 84 by weight of acetonitrile and 16 water. 9. A process as claimed in claim 8, wherein the solvent is azeotropically distilled off for recycle.

## Description
PROCES FOR OXIDIZING PHENOL TO P BENZOOUINONE This invention relates to process for oxidizing phenol to p benzoquinone. It is known i t art to oxidize phenol to p benzoquinone with oxygen in the presence of a copper ion catalyst and such a process is disclosed in US A 3,t987,068. In that disclosure the oxidation is carried out in a nitrile solvent using a complex formed from the copper catalyst and the solvent, and the operating conditions are said to be at temperatures of from about 0 to 100 C and a partial pressure of oxygen of from 7.1 to 202.7, preferably 14.2 to 101.3 bar about 7 to 200, preferably 14 to 100, atmospheres .As pointed out in US A 3,987,068, the yield of quinone product increases with increased partial pressure of oxygen and it appears from the data therein to require partial pressures of oxygen above 101.3 bar about 100 atmospheres in order to achieve conversions cf phenol to p benzoquinone of the order of about 75 . Such pressures are too high to be useful in an conornical commercial process because they require special equipment of high capital cost. US A 3,870,731 relates to the oxidation of phenols to benzoquinones in the presence of copper salts as catalysts where the catalyst is promoted with thiocyanate, cyanate, cyanide and halogen ions. In such reactions, a solvent such as water is disclosed and other polar solvents soluble or miscible with water may be used. Such solvents are exemplified a. certain amides, alcohols, and sulphoxidos. It is also gratuitously stated that any of the various sol vents may be used alone or in combination with water in any desired ratio.There is no teaching, however, that water may be used to modify the cuprous ion but not cupric ion catalyst to obtain increased selectivity in accordance with this invention. Furthermore, in our experience we find that water alone is not a suitable solvent for the reaction. It has now been found that the coppercatalyzed process for oxidation of phenol to p benzoquinone can be significantly improved so as to enable operation at lower, commercially useful pressures and still achieve an improved selectivity to product. In accordance with the invention, such objectives are achieved by conducting the oxidation of phenol in the presence of a monovalent copper ion catalyst e.g. Cu which is modifies with water. The effect of enhancing the yield of p benzoquinone with water in the presence of a cuprous ion catalyst is particularly surprising because water has no such effect with a cupric ion catalyst, although water is effective wit a cupric ion catalyst when an alkali metal base is also present as disclosed in our related U.S. application S.N.284,893 filed August 20, 1981 European ApplicationNo. 82 303639.7, EP A 0070665 . In carrying out the process of the invention, moderate temperature conditions, conventional solvent systems and a choice of monovalent oppe catalysator may to used. If use a temperature of from about in to about 85 C preferably about 65 C and a accent, preferably a mitrile such as acetouitrile, are usually employed. The copper catalysst will be preferably a copper 1 halide, preferably chloride, although nitrate is operable and mixtures of such salts also may be used. Hcwever, other copper I salts such as oxide, thiophenoxide, acetate and carboxylates, nave been found not to be effective catalysts for the reaction.As indicated above, the reaction can be carried out at moderate pressures and such pressures will generally be 6.9 to 34 bar gauge about 100 to about 500 psig partial pressure of oxygen, preferably 13.8 to 27.6 bar gauge about 200 to 400 psig . Mixtures of oxygen and nitrogen, air alone, or oxygen alone may be used, but preferably mixtures of oxygen and nitrogen such as air will be employed as the oxygenating medium. The addition of any amount of water to the reaction mass cver the normal temperature range of operation will be beneficial, but it will be understood that optimum benefit will be obtained under certain, specific parameters. Thus, although tne ratio of added water to phenol used will vary preferably from about 1.C to about 4.C moles of water per mole of phenol over the operating temper ature range, optimum results are enta iried at about 650C and at a water to pnenol ratio of from about 1.25 to about 2.50 moles of water per mole of phenol. In a most preferred embodiment of the invention, a mixed solvent system of water about 16 by weight and acetonitrile about 84 will be used. Such a solvent system not only enables selectivity oi over 90 t.o be obtained but also is advantageous in that it is a low boilig azeotrope 7b.5 C wich makes possible solvent recycle with lower energy input. In order to furher illustrate the invention, the following Examples are given EXAMPLE 1 A solution of phenol in 5 ml. of acetonitrile at 6, C which was aritated in a magnetically stirred mini autoclave under an initial total pressure of 52 bar gauge 750 psig was oxidized over a three hour period with a mixture of 40 vol. oxygen and 60 nitrogen in the presence of 0.55 mmole of copper catalyst. The reaction parameters and results obtained by standard GLPC are shown in the following Table I. TABLE IEFECT OF WATER ON COPPER CATALYZED OXIDATION OF PHENOL Phenol H2O ANAL. OF REACTION MIXTURE mmoles CONV. SEL.Catalyst mmoles mmoles PhOH PROh OCPc PCPd CuCl2 8 0 73 49CuCl2 8 14 35 48CuCl 16 0 8.48 4.57 0.10 47 61CuCl 16 14 10.21 4.77 0.01 0.07 36 82 a Phenol b p Benzoquinone c o Chlorophenol d p Chorohenol As can be seer from the data in Table I, only with the cuprous ion catalyst does the presence of water show imprcved selectivity. EXAMPLE II Phenol was dissolved in 5 ml. of acetonitrile and 0.55 mrnole of the catalyst and water was added. The mixture was stirred and then pressured to 52 bar 750 psi with a mixture of 40 O2 60 N2. The mixture was heated under pressure for 3 hours and the products analyzed. Table II indicates the reaction conditions and results obtained. TABLE IlPhOH H2O H2O Temp. Conver Selectivity mmoles ml moles C sion to p benzo per Phenol quinone mole PhOH mole 8 None 65 90 54 0.125 0.88 78 71 0.250 1.75 61 78 0.375 2.63 51 85 0.500 3.50 46 81 16 None 65 41 64 0.125 0.44 52 80 0.250 0.88 37 83 0.375 1.32 34 89 0.500 1.75 28 98 8 0.500 3.50 65 46 81 12 2.33 32 95 16 1.75 28 95 20 1.4C 21 95 8 0.500 3.50 75 60 69 12 2.33 47 84 16 . 38 85 20 .40 31 80 8 0.500 C SrI 85 71 76 2 2.33 60 72 16 1.75 46 76 20 8 0.500 3.50 95 83 65 12 2.3 66 71 16 1.75 57 68 20 1.40 48 49 8 1.00 7.00 95 68 63 12 4.66 55 67 16 3.50 45 72 20 2.80 35 76 EXAMPLE III Phenol 16 mmole was dissolved in 5 ml.water and 0.55 mmole of CuCl was added. The mixture was stirred and then pressured to 52 bar 750 psi with a mixture of 40 O2 160 N2. The mixture was heated under pressure at 65 C for 3 hours and the products analyzed. Conversion of phenol was 28.0 and selectivity to p benzoquinone was only 8.2 giving a tota yield of 2.3 p benzoquinone. Thus, water alone 25 not a suitable solvent for the reacticn wrien cuprous ion is used.EXAMPLE IV Using CH3CN H2O Azeotrope The following were charged into a 50C stainless steel autoclave phenol, 60.23g 640 mmole .cuprous chloride, 2.2g 22 mmole , acetophenone 8.0 ml 68 mole, and 220 ml of aa mixture of acetonitrile and water naving the composition 84 CH3CN and 16 H2O by weight wich corresponds to the azeotrpe boiling at 76 C. The oxidizing gas, a mixture of 46 O2 and 60 N2, was sperged through the reactor a 25 ml min while maintaining a pressure of 52 bar gauge 750 psig on the reactor contents. The reactor was heated to 650C and the mixture stirred at this temperature with constant sparging for 5 hours. After this time standardized gas chrematopraphic analysis showed that 318.3 mmoles of phenol rem ined unreacted und 299.9 mmoles of p benzoqui ne had been produced. This corresponds to a phenol conversion of 50.3 and a selectivity to p benzoquinore of 93.2 . Solvent recovery is effected in the above system by distilling off the low boiling azeotrope and the distillate is recycled for use as solvent in subsequent reactions.