# Enema apparata improvements relating to double contrast studies.

## Abstract
An enema administering apparatus 20 insertable into the rectum for delivery of a contrast medium to internal portions of a patient s anatomy includes an enema tube 21 joined to an enema tip 22 wherein the enema tube and enema tip have a common contrast medium passageway 25 extending therethrough and an air passageway 24 which is exterior of the contrast medium passageway and is able to be coupled to a source of air for double contrast studies. The air passageway may be a passageway dis posed within the enema tube and enema tip construction or may be a separate tubing member joined therewith in a suitable arrangement to introduce air for the double con trast studies once the barium has been evacuated from the patient. Air introduction means and contrast medium in troduction means are provided by various arrangements suitable for use with the main enema administering ap paratus concept disclosed.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. An enema administering apparatus insertable into the rectum for delivery of a contrast medium to internal portions of a patient s anatomy, said enema administering apparatus comprising a generally tubular stem portion having a free end, an insertable end and a contrast medium passageway extending therethrough from an inject location adjacent said free end to a discharge location adjacent said insertable end an enlarged tip portion disposed at said insertable end of said tubular stem portion and having at least one contrast medium exit aperture located therein and air passageway means external of said contrast medium passageway and having an air delivery outlet opening at a location adjacent said contrast medium exit aperture. 2. The enema administering apparatus of claim 1 wherein said air passageway means includes a flexible tube extending external to said stem portion and internal to said enlarged tip portion. 3. The enema administering apparatus of claim 1 wherein said air passageway means is internal to said stem portion and internal to said enlarged tip portion. 4. The enema administering apparatus of claim 1 wherein said air passageway means includes a flexible tube extending external to said stem portion and external to said enlarged tip portion. 5. The enema administering apparatus of claim 4 which further includes a resilient, flexible annular element received upon said tubular stem portion, said flexible tube being disposed between said tubular stem portion and said annular element. 6. The enema administering apparatus of claim 4 which further includes a resilient, flexible annular element received upon said tubular stem portion, said flexible tube being disposed exterior of said annular element. 7. The enema administering apparatus of claim 4 wherein said enlarged tip portion includes an outer surface groove, the length of said flexible tube external to said enlarged tip portion being disposed within said groove. 8. The enema administering apparatus of claim 4 which further includes a hollow collar portion joined to said flexible tube, said stem portion being received within said hollow collar portion. 9. The enema administering apparatus of claim 2 wherein said flexible tube has two branches, each branch extending through a different part of said enlarged tip portion, said air delivery outlet opening being common to each of said two branches. 10. The enema administering apparatus of claim 9 wherein said flexible tube further includes a second air delivery outlet opening, said second air delivery outlet opening being common to each of said two branches. 11. The enema administering apparatus of claim 9 which further includes air introduction means coupled to each of said two branches and including valve means for selective delivery of air through said two branches. 12. The enema administering apparatus of claim 1 which further includes contrast medium introduction means coupled to said free end of said tubular stem portion and including a storage reservoir for said contrast medium, said contrast medium introduction means further including compressing means cooperating with said storage reservoir for temporarily reducing the volume of said reservoir and discharging contrast medium therefrom. 13. The enema administering apparatus of claim 12 wherein said storage reservoir has an accordion like shape with a single opening at one end and a handle centrally disposed at the opposite end of said accordion like shape. 14. The enema administering apparatus of claim 12 wherein said compressing means includes an inflatable, resilient pouch compartment contiguous with said storage reservoir, said pouch compartment being coupled to air introducing means for causing inflation of said pouch compartment thereby compressing said reservoir and discharging contrast medium therefrom. 15. The enema administering apparatus of claim I wherein said enlarged tip portion includes an end fitting and is detachably joined to said insertable end of said tubular stem portion by means of said end fitting which is received by said tubular stem portion. 16. An enema administering apparatus insertable into the rectum for delivery of a contrast medium to internal portions of a patient s anatomy, said enema administering apparatus comprising a generally tubular stem portion having a free end, an insertable end and a contrast medium passageway centrally located within said stem portion and extending therethrough from an inject location adjacent said free end to a discharge location adjacent said insertable end an enlarged tip portion disposed at said insertable end of said tubular stem portion and having at least one contrast medium exit aperture centrally located therein and an air passageway defined by and located within said stem portion completely external of said contrast medium passageway for the full length of said air passageway, said air passageway having an air delivery outlet opening at a location in said enlarged tip portion and spaced apart from said contrast medium exit aperture. 17. The enema administering apparatus of claim 16 wherein said air passageway further includes an air delivery inlet opening disposed in said enlarged tip portion. 18. The enema administering apparatus of claim 16 which further includes an air delivery tube having a conically flared end and inserted into said air passageway, the air delivery outlet location of said air passageway being of a countersunk shape compatible for flush to recessed receipt of said conically flared end. 19. The enema administering apparatus of claim 16 wherein said air passageway further includes an air delivery inlet opening disposed in said tubular stem portion. 20. The enema administering apparatus of claim 16 which further includes a branch protuberance outwardly extending from an intermediate location along said tubular stem portion, said air passageway extending through said branch protuberance to an air delivery inlet opening located in a free end of said branch protuberance. 21. The enema administering apparatus of claim 20 which further includes an air delivery tube having a conically flared end and wherein the free end of said branch protuberance is fitted with a delivery tube retainer assembly, said tube retainer assembly being adapted to rigidly fix the flared end of said air delivery tube relative to the free end of said branch protuberance. 22. The enema administering apparatus of claim 16 which further includes contrast medium introduction means coupled to said free end of said tubular stem portion and including an accordion like shaped storage reservoir for said contrast medium and having two oppositely disposed sides of a curved edge shape and two intermediate sides with a substantially straight edge shape, said contrast medium introduction means further including a contrast medium outlet port located off center adjacent one of said two intermediate sides. 23. The enema administering apparatus of claim 22 which further includes air introduction means coupled to said storage reservoir and adapted to introduce air into said storage reservoir. 24. The enema administering apparatus of claim 23 which further includes a contrast medium storage receptacle located within said storage reservoir and interiorly spaced therefrom, said contrast medium storage receptacle being flow coupled to said outlet port. 25. The enema administering apparatus of claim 16 which further includes a retention member having an inflatable annular element suitably adapted to be received upon said tubular stem portion and having a first air tube in air flow communication with the interior of said annular element for inflation of said annular element, said retention member further including a second air tube extending through said annular element. 26. The enema administering apparatus of claim 25 wherein said annular element has a corrugated exterior surface, said exterior surface being constructed of a flexible and resilient material and expandable under inflating air pressure. 27. An enema administering apparatus insertable into the rectum for delivery of a contrast medium to internal portions of a patient s anatomy, said enema administering apparatus comprising an enlarged tip portion including a contrast medium tube fitting at one end and a contrast medium passageway centrally extending through said enlarged tip portion and said tube fitting an inflatable annular element spaced apart from said enlarged tip portion and defining a contrast medium tube center aperture and including an air tube adapted for air inflation of said annular element and air passageway means including in continuous axial alignment an air tube member joined to said annular element, a first passageway through said annular element, a connecting tube extending between said annular element and said enlarged tip portion and a second passageway extending through a section of said enlarged tip portion at a location external to said contrast medium passageway. 28. The enema administering apparatus of claim 27 wherein said enema administering apparatus is molded as a single, integral member from a synthetic material. 29. The enema administering apparatus of claim 28 wherein said annular element has a corrugated exterior surface, said surface being expandable under inflating air pressure.

## Description
ENEMA APPARATA IMPROVEMENTS RELATING TO DOUBLE CONTRAST STUDIES Reference to Related Application This patent application is a continuation in part patent application of my prior United States patent application Serial No. 39,502 filed May 16, 1979, now abandoned. Background of the Invention This invention relates in general to enema administering procedures and apparata and in particular to enema tip improvements and administering techniques associated with double contrast studies. Enema administering apparata are often used to control the rectal introduction of a contrast medium such as barium for such procedures as X ray examination of the colon. While a variety of problems may be encountered with incontinent patients, one problem involves the inability of such patients to retain the enema tip during a fluoroscopy examination. Various solutions to this problem have been provided by the improved enema administering apparata disclosed in my copending patent application, Serial No. 39,280, filed on May 16, 1979. Another problem which is applicable to virtually all patients is the time lapse between preevacuation and postevacuation X ray films when an air contrast study is required. Frequently referred to as a double contrast enema or fluoroscopy procedure, such a routine involves a conventional barium enema first, followed by an injection of air once the barium is evacuated. X ray films are taken just prior to evacuation, air is then injected and postevacuation X ray films are taken. An undue elapse of time between the preevacuation and postevacuation films allows the barium to dehydrate partially on the walls of the bowel when the air is injected. This results in highly unsatisfactory radiographs.Therefore, it would be an improvement to the various apparata currently used, as well as the procedures presently followed, if means were available for a rapid evacuation and prompt injection of air. With currently used air contrast apparata and procedures, the enema tube and tip are used for both the barium as well as for the air, and there is normally a separate air tube or passageway which is coupled to air introducing means. One problem with such an arrangement is that the air tube extends through the barium or other contrast medium passageway and partially blocks or impedes the flow of medium barium . Furthermore, if suction is used for evacuation via the contrast medium passageway, some of the contrast medium may clog the air tube. Therefore, it would be an improvement to provide an air tube or air passageway as part of an enema tube and tip which does not interfere with the introduction of the contrast medium into the patient nor become clogged upon contrast medium evacuation. There are various enema related apparata which have been conceived as set forth by the disclosures of the following listed patents. However, none of these disclosures set forth a device with advantages equal to the advantages of the present invention to be described in detail hereinafter. Thus, the present invention is an improvement to all prior art devices of which the inventor is aware. U. S. Patent No. Patentee Issue Date 4,117,847 Clayton 10 03 78 3,707,146 Cook et al. 12 26 72 3,766,920 Greene 10 23 73 3,788,328 Alley et al. 1 29 74 4,090,502 Tajika 5 23 78 3,509,884 Bell 5 05 70 3,078,848 Milbert 2 26 63 3,769,962 McVey 11 06 73 4,044,757 McWhorter et al. 8 30 77 3,915,152 Colonna 10 28 75 3,760,805 Higuchi 9 25 73 3,752,146 Kline 8 14 73 3,844,284 Schoenfeld et al. 10 29 74 4,068,662 Sneider 1 17 78 4,014,332 Sneider 3 29 77 3,459,175 Miller 8 05 69 3,375,823 Pamplin et al. 4 02 68 2,112,160 Johnson 3 22 38 Clayton discloses improvements in colon catheters for removing waste colon materials and includes a hollow main tube which is insertable into the anal opening and is held therein by an inflatable member located within the anal opening and by limiting elements located outside of the anal opening and extending for and aft from the main tube.An irrigation tube or the like is provided for directing enema fluid into the rectum above the inserted catheter. Cook et al. discloses a means to inject a plastic into a cavity to produce a replica thereof and is particularly suitable to produce a soft resilient plastic impression of the interior configuration of a body cavity. An air bulb is provided and connected to the injection syringe by a section of tubing wherein the tubing exits at an inflatable cuff which is used to prevent inadvertent withdraw of the catheter during the injection operation. Greene discloses a smooth, flexible enema tip having an inflatable balloon mounted on the stem behind the exit port from the tip. A limited volume, flexible hand distendable air reservoir is connected to the balloon like retention ring so that operator compression of the reservoir will inflate the ring. Alley et al. discloses a cardiovascular catheter for use particularly in open heart surgery and related operations requiring varying forms of cardiopulmonary bypass. The catheter has a fixed ring provided on the catheter proximal to drainage inlets and may have a sliding ring snug fit on the catheter proximal to the fixed ring for securing the catheter to a penetrated portion of the anatomy, such as the heart wall, between the two rings to assist in holding the catheter in place. Tajika discloses a remote controlled barium injection apparatus for the injection of barium into the lower digestive tract of a patient to be examined and for the subsequent reflux and evacuation of the barium by air compression. The objective is to create greater safety in the production of double contrast studies or fluoroscopic examination. The apparatus employs detachable anal insert units which are the only portion of the apparatus in direct contact with a patient. Bell discloses a rectal balloon catheter with inflatable stop or limit means for limiting the depth of insertion of the catheter into a body cavity to a predetermined maximal depth. Milbert discloses a medical applicator which includes a multiple position valve disposed in line between three tubing sections. One section of tubing couples to a fluid bag and the other two sections of tubing extend to remote use locations for this fluid. By selective positioning of the valve component, the fluid may be coupled to one or the other of the two remote use locations or may be closed off completely. McVey discloses a barium enema administration method and apparatus which includes a three way union of conduits, one conduit is connected to a gravity feed barium supply source, another conduit is connected to a source of air under pressure and the last conduit is an evacuation line connected to a source of suction. Each conduit is controlled by an individual valve and the valves are opened and closed in a prescribed sequence as directed by the radiologist. McWhorter discloses a device for use in cholangiography and similar procedures comprising, a first syringe having a barrel defining a chamber for retaining an irrigation liquid and a plunger having one end received in the chamber for pumping the liquid from the chamber.The device has a second syringe having a barrel defining a chamber for retaining a liquid contrast medium and a plunger having one end received in the chamber of the second syringe for pumping the contrast medium from the chamber. The two syringes are jointly coupled to a catheter and this union may be provided with a selectably positionable valve. Colonna discloses a barium device which includes lever means, barium supply means, valve means, piston means, squeeze bulb means and other components for providing a control system of barium in combination with air contrast for employment in the examination of patients. Higuchi discloses an osmotic dispenser which includes a water porous housing member confining a first flexible bag of relatively impervious material containing an active agent and provided with an active agent dispensing head and a second bag of controlled permeability to moisture containing a solution which exhibits an osmotic pressure gradient against water. A dual compartment bag arrangement is illustrated in FIG. 4 and while the intended application and structure of such a dual compartment bag arrangement is considerably different from the present invention, its general structure is of marginal relevancy. Kline discloses a centrifuge tube formed from a transparent plastic and is provided at its bottom with a penetrable membrane through which an optical fiber element is passed upon completion of centrifuging of the contents to enable visual observation of the effective light, particularly ultra violet light, on the contents. The body of the centrifuge tube has an accordion like configuration. Schoenfeld et al. discloses a disposable douche comprised of a collapsible bellows forming a syringe and containing a premeasured amount of cleansing powder and an elongated dispensing nozzle adapted to be secured to an open end of the bellows. Sneider 662 discloses improvements in accordion style containers used with syringes, douches, and the like. The improvements pertain to both prefilled, disposable, reusable syringe and douche containers and accessories used therewith. Sneider 332 discloses a liquid filled sealable flexible bag having a manipulative discharge tube or nozzle. The FIG. 9 illustration of the invention discloses an accordion like receptacle which is coupled to a tubular member. Miller discloses a device for giving an enema which includes an inflatable balloon received on a pipe having an undulating outer shape. The pipe includes a groove which receives an air tube and although this air tube is exterior of the contrast medium passageway for a portion of its length, the end of the air tube is disposed within the tip opening where the contrast medium exits. Pamplin et al. discloses a dental syringe for selective discharging of dry air, water or spray. The air tube is disposed within the water passageway for substantially the full length of the passageway. The free end is closed by the air tube and a branch passageway allows the delivery of water from this closed end. Johnson discloses a method and apparatus for effecting medicinal treatment which includes two flow channels in side by side relationship extending from two separate storage chambers to a common delivery tip location. Summary of the Invention An enema administering apparatus insertable into the rectum for delivery of a contrast medium to internal portions of a patient s anatomy according to one embodiment of the present invention comprises a generally tubular stem portion having a free end, an insertable end and a contrast medium passageway extending therethrough from an inject location adjacent the free end to a discharge location adjacent the insertable end, an enlarged tip portion disposed at the insertable end of the tubular stem portion and having at least one contrast medium exit aperture located therein, and air passageway means external of the contrast medium passageway and having an air delivery outlet opening at a location adjacent the contrast medium exit aperture. One object of the present invention is to provide an improved enema administering apparatus for double contrast studies. Related objects and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the following description. Brief Description of the Drawings FIG. 1 is a partial, fragmentary front elevation view of an enema tip and tube including an air passageway according to a typical embodiment of the present invention. FIG. 2 is a partial, fragmentary front elevation view of an alternative enema tip and tube arrangement also including an air passageway. FIG. 2a is a perspective view of an air bulb and tube arrangement suitable for air introduction into an air passageway. FIG. 3 is a partial, fragmentary front elevation view of yet another alternative enema tip and tube arrangement also including an air passageway. FIG. 4 is a partial, fragmentary front elevation view of still another enema tip and tube arrangement also including an air passageway. FIG. 4a is a partial, fragmentary front elevation view of a side groove within the FIG. 4 enema tip with air tubing means disposed therein. FIG. 5 is a partial, fragmentary front elevation view of yet another alternative enema tip and tube arrangement including dual air passageway means. FIG. 5a is a partial perspective view of an alternative dual air passageway arrangement suitable for use with the FIG. 5 alternative arrangement. FIG. 6 is a partial, front elevation view of an emena tip suitable for press fit connection with an enema tube. FIG. 7 is a partial, fragmentary front elevation view of an enema tip press fit into an enema tube. FIG. 8 is a perspective view of an air tube arrangement including cuff means for retaining an enema tube. FIG. 9 is a section view of the FIG. 8 air tube and cuff arrangement as taken along line 9 9 in FIG. 8. FIG. 10 is a partial perspective view of an air introducing arrangement including valve means and a dual air passageway. FIG. 11 is a front elevation view of a contrast medium storage reservoir and evacuating device. FIG. Ila is a partial, front elevation view of one handle style suitable for use with the FIG. 11 device. FIG. llb is a partial, front elevation view of another alternative handle design suitable for use with the FIG. ll device. FIG. llc is a partial, front elevation view of an alternative contrast medium storge reservoir and evacuating device. FIG. 12 is a perspective view of a contrast medium introduction device. FIG. 13 is a front elevation section view of the FIG. 12 introduction device as taken along lines 13 13 in FIG.12. FIG. 14 is a partial, fragmentary front elevation view of an enema tip and tube including an air passageway according to a typical embodiment of the present invention. FIG. 14a is a perspective view of a flared air delivery tube compatibly arranged for use with the FIG. 14 enema apparatus. FIG. 15 is a partial, fragmentary front elevation view of an alternative enema tip and tube arrangement also including an air passageway. FIG. 16 is an exploded view of a tube retainer assembly compatibly arranged for use with the FIG. 15 enema apparatus. FIG. 16a is a full section view of a tube retainer comprising a portion of the FIG. 16 assembly. FIG. 17 is a perspective view of an inflatable annular element compatible for use with various enema tip and tube configurations of the present invention. FIG. 18 is a perspective view of a combination inflatable annular element and enema tip which is arranged for connection to a contrast medium flow tube in accordance with a typical embodiment of the present invention. FIG. 19 is a perspective view of a contrast medium storage reservoir and evacuating device according to a typical embodiment of the present invention. FIG. 20 is a fragmentary side elevation view of theFIG. 19 device as arranged for air delivery. FIG. 21 is a fragmentary, side elevation view of theFIG. 19 device as arranged for contrast medium delivery. FIG. 22 is a partial side elevation view of one handle style suitable for use with the FIG. 19 device. FIG. 23 is a fragmentary perspective view of a contrast medium introduction device including an inner bag and outer enclosure construction. FIG. 24 is a partial perspective view of an alternative configuration for the FIG. 23 device including control valve means. Description of the Preferred Embodiment For the purposes of promoting an understanding of the principles of the invention, reference will now be made to the embodiment illustrated in the drawings and specific language will be used to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended, such alterations and further modifications in the illustrated device, and such further applications of the principles of the invention as illustrated therein being contemplated as would normally occur to one skilled in the art to which the invention relates. Referring to FIG. 1, there is illustrated an enema administering apparatus 20 which includes an enema tube 21, an enlarged enema tip 22, air tube 23 and interior air passageway 24. Internal to enema tube 21 and enlarged enema tip 22 is a contrast medium passageway 25 which extends from a contrast medium discharge location 26 at inserted end 27 to a contrast medium inject location 29 disposed within free end 28. Air tube 23 may be inserted into protuberance 32 with a press fit in order to couple air tube 23 to air passageway 24. Alternatively, interior air passageway 24 may be appropriately sized so that air tube 23 may be inserted through protuberance 32 into air passageway 24 and could conceivably even extend to a point beyond the outermost end of enema tip 22. In this particular arrangement, a source of air may be coupled to free end 33 of air tube 23 and with air tube 23 coupled to or inserted within air passageway 24, an overall air passageway from free end 33 to air delivery outlet opening 34 is provided. In this particular arrangement, air tube 23 is flexible and extends external to the enema stem enema tube 21 yet is internal to the enema tip 22.It is important to note that the combined air passageway, including air tube 23 and interior air passageway 24, is external throughout its entire length to contrast medium passageway 25 and thus the flow of a contrast medium, such as barium, will not be impeded or interfered with by such air passageway or air tubing. Contrast medium passageway 25 is centrally positioned within tube 21 and tip 22 and is of a comparatively larger size diameter than air passageway 24. These particular arrangements are well suited for double contrast studies wherein barium is first injected into the patient and preevacuation X ray films are taken.Next the barium is evacuated, such as by suction means, and air is then introduced by means of the corresponding air tube and or air passageway for the contrast postevacuation X rays. Suitable means to retain the enema tip and the tube in position throughout such a fluoroscopy procedure are disclosed in my copending patent application, Serial No. 39,280, filed on May 16, 1979. Referring to FIG. 2, an alternative arrangement to theFIG. 1 apparatus is illustrated and the primary difference between alternative apparatus 31 and apparatus 20 is that interior air passageway 35 extends from air delivery outlet opening 36 down the length of enema tube 37 to protuberance portion 38 at which point air passageway 35 exits to the atmosphere. As is evident from this FIG. 2 illustration, the air passageway is completely contained within the enema tip and enema tube rather than exiting at the base of the enema tip as disclosed for apparatus 20.Apparatus 31 provides an alternative to the FIG. 1 arrangement even though the functioning of both arrangements are virtually the same. Protuberance 38 is provided with a closure plug 39 so that apparatus 31 may be used in a conventional manner when double contrast studies are not called for. When air is desired to be incorporated as part of the study, plug 39 is removed and an air introduction device 42 see FIG. 2a is coupled to protuberance 38. Air introduction device 42 includes a connecting tube 43 and an air bulb 44. The separable nature of tube 43 and air bulb 44 enables different lengths of tubing and different bulb sizes to be used, depending upon the particular circumstances and the particular patient. One particular style of enema administering apparata includes the providing of an annular element formed of a resilient, flexible material. Such an arrangement is fully disclosed in my U. S. Patent No. 3,459,175 issuedAugust 5, 1969. In this patented arrangement, the air tube passes between the enema tube and the surrounding resilient, flexible annular element, enters the enema tip at its base and exits interior to the contrast medium discharge location such as 26 . The FIG. 3 and FIG. 4 illustrations represent alternative arrangements to this patented configuration wherein the air tube is moved external to the enema tip rather than being internal to the tip. This change is important in that the air tube will not block or otherwise interfere with the delivery of the contrast medium to the patient. Nor is there the likelihood that the air tube will become clogged with barium or other material as part of the barium introduction into the patient or the evacuation of the barium from the patient. Referring to FIG. 3, air tube 47 is disposed between enema tube 48 and annular element 49. As is disclosed inU. S. Patent No. 3,459,175, which is hereby expressly incorporated by reference, air tube 47 lays within a groove longitudinally extending along the length of enema tube 48 such that inflation of annular element 49 will not close or shut off the air passageway through tube 47.Exit location 50 designates that point at which air tube 47 exits from between annular element 49 and tube 48.Thus from exit location 50 on upward toward the outermost end of the enema tip, a groove is not necessary. However, as is illustrated in FIG. 4a, a groove disposed within the enema tip is envisioned and would be suitable to reduce the overall size of the enema tip portion which is inserted into the patient s rectum. An alternative arrangement to the use of a groove along the length of enema tube 48 would be to arrange annular element 49 with a rigid internal wall, contiguous with the outside diameter of enema tube 48, yet providing clearance for air tube 47. Thus air inflation of annular element 49 only exerts pressure in an outwardly direction and does not cause compression of or closing off of air tube 47. FIG. 4 illustrates yet another alternative arrangement wherein the air tube 51 is disposed external to annular element 49 as well as external to enema tip 52. This particular alternative arrangement is intended to function in much the same manner as the arrangement disclosed in FIG. 3 and the use of a groove 53 in enema tip 52 is equally applicable to the FIG. 4 arrangement as it was to the FIG. 3 arrangement.The remaining components of an enema administering apparatus as that disclosed by FIGS. 3 and 4 is similar to that taught by U.S. Patent No. 3,459,175 as well as by my copending patent application, Serial No. 39,280, filed on May 16, 1979. Referring to FIG. 5, there is yet another alternative arrangement illustrated wherein a dual branch air tube 56 is disclosed having a first air inlet branch 57 and a second air inlet branch 58, each of which are connected together and include an air exit or delivery outlet opening 59 disposed adjacent to contrast medium discharge location exit aperture 60 located in the outermost end of enema tip 61. This particular dual branch air tube arrangement is desirable when there is a likelihood that one or the other of the two air inlet branches may become choked or closed off and thus a backup or secondary air introduction passageway is necessary. This particular arrangement is also suitable for use with the air introduction apparatus of FIG. 10 in that there is a single supply source of air and two air tubing branches which are joined with the source by means of a suitable valve.This particular arrangement will be discussed in greater detail hereinafter. Another modification envisioned to the FIG. 5 dual branch air tube arrangement is to provide a second air exit or air delivery outlet opening 64 spaced apart from outlet opening 59 so that if one or the other of these two outlet openings becomes clogged with contrast medium or other foreign matter, there will be a second or backup outlet opening for delivery of the air. Inasmuch as some of the various arrangements and alternatives described so far may only involve modification of the enema tip portion, such as the air passageway of FIG. 1 and the groove of FIG. 4a, it is envisioned to construct the enema tips as replaceable, interchangeable units such that the remainder of the enema administering apparatus may remain unchanged. While it is to be understood that replaceable enema tips are not necessary in all cases nor desirable in some, there are those particular arrangements for which replaceable tips are well suited.In order to create such replaceability enema tip 65 see FIG. 6 is provided with a series of serrations 66 disposed on its free end which are of a style and arrangement commonly found such that a resilient flexible tubing member may be axially pressed over such serrations and thus provide a secure and tight connection therewith. Alternatively, see FIG. 7 enema tip 67 may be arranged with a free end 68 of an outside diameter size which is slightly larger than the inside diameter size of tubing 69 such that the tubing is forced to expand outwardly when force fit over free end 68. This arrangement also provides a tight connection between the enema tube and enema tip. Referring to FIG. 8, there is illustrated yet another arrangement in which the air tube is disposed completely external of both the enema tube and enema tip. Air tube 72 extends along the length of enema tube 73 from an air delivery outlet opening 74 at the inserted end to an air inlet opening at end 75. The air inlet opening at end 75 is able to be connected to a source of air, such as air bulb 44, in order to provide air from end 75 through air passageway 76 to air outlet opening 74 at a location adjacent the enema tip. Joined to the outside diameter of air tube 72 is a collar member 77 which has a circumferential size suitable to surround the outside diameter of enema tube 73 with a snug fit in order to hold air tube 72 in a particular desired orientation relative to enema tube 73 and enema tip 78.By fabricating collar member 77 out of a somewhat flexible or resilient material, enema tip 78, although enlarged over enema tube 73, is able to be forced through collar member 77 and since enema tube 73 is slidably received within collar member 77, the position of air outlet opening 74 with respect to the contrast medium discharge location can be controlled. FIG. 9 is a section view through both air tube 72 and collar member 77 in the direction of cutting line 9 9 and is sectioned for plastic or similar synthetic material. Referring to FIG. 10, there is illustrated an air introduction device 81 which includes an air bulb 82, connecting tube 83, air valve 84, first air tubing branch 85 and second air tubing branch 86. By compression of air bulb 82, air is introduced through connecting tube 83 into air valve passageway 89. At this point, the selected orientation of air valve 84 governs whether the air within passageway 89 is directed through first air tubing branch 85 or through second air tubing branch 86 or through both. The incorporation of two air tubing branches provides a dual system as well as a backup system in the event one or the other of these two branches would become closed off or restricted in some manner. This particular air introduction device is particularly well suited to those enema tube and enema tip designs which incorporate a dual air passageway such as the arrangement of FIG. 5. Referring to FIGS. 11, lla, llb and llc, there is illustrated a contrast medium introduction apparatus 90 which includes a contrast medium storage reservoir 91, a combination filling port and discharge port 92 and a centrally positioned handle 93 located at the opposite end from combination port 92. Once a suitable contrast medium, such as barium, is introduced into storage reservoir 91 by means of filling port 92, this contrast medium is then in a loaded position ready for introduction into a patient. The externally threaded outside diameter of filling port 92 provides a suitable connection means to an enema tube or similar tubing arrangement.Once filling port 92 is connected to such a tube or tubing arrangement and the enema tip is rectally inserted into the patient, compression of storage reservoir 91 by the exertion of pressure through handle 93 in the direction of filling port 92 causes the contrast medium within storage reservoir 91 to be discharged out of discharge port 92. The accordion like configuration of storage reservoir 91 and the symmetrical and centrally disposed locations of filling port discharge port 92 and handle 93 provide a virtually complete discharge of the contrast medium from storage reservoir 91. FIGS. lla and llb represent alternative handle styles to that of handle 93. The FIG. lla handle 94 is a generally disc like member with a reduced diameter at its point of connection to storage reservoir 91, and the FIG. llb representation is of a generally spherical handle 95 whose point of attachment to storage reservoir 91 also includes a reduced diameter portion. FIG. llc illustrates an alternative arrangement for the filling port discharge port 92a. Apparatus 90a is configured with such a combination port 92a which is of comparatively larger size than port 92 of FIG. 11. Referring to FIGS. 12 and 13, there is illustrated yet a further contrast medium introduction apparatus 98 which includes a main pouch member 99 divided into an upper compartment 100 and a lower compartment 101 see FIG.13 . Upper compartment 100 is provided with a contrast medium discharge port 102 which may also serve as a filling port similar to the dual purpose filling port discharge port 92. Lower compartment 101 is provided with an air connection tube 103 which may be suitably connected to an air bulb 104 by means of a variable length of tubing 105. This particular contrast medium introduction apparatus is suitable for introduction of a contrast medium such as barium from a remote location. By increasing the overall length of tubing 105, air bulb 104 may be placed in a location adjacent to the X ray technician or radiologist while the main pouch 99 is in close proximity to the patient.Then by compression or depression of air bulb 104, lower compartment 101 is inflated and as this inflation occurs, pressure is applied on upper compartment 100 reducing its volumetric size and forcing the contrast medium stored therein to be discharged or expelled by means of tubing 106. Tubing 106 may be an enema tube or may be connected to an enema tube, and by such tubing the discharged contrast medium is ultimately injected into the patient. In order to achieve this particular result, it is important that the material utilized to fabricate main pouch 99 and thus upper and lower compartments 100 and 101, respectively, be a flexible, resilient material. Patient comfort is of concern and importance in the design of enema devices, and although protuberance 32 seeFIG. 1 is located in a noninterfering manner below and inside of the larger diameter surface of tip 22, not all tip designs are ideally configured for patient comfort.For example, if the air exit location was at some intermediate point on the side surface of the tip rather than the end, and if an air tube was employed, then the location of the free end of the air tube would be of concern. Clearly, it is desirable to configure the tips such that they can be used for double contrast studies or not used for such studies as the physician desires. If a double contrast study is desired, often one end of the air tube is merely inserted into the enema tip air passageway and the other end is coupled to a source of air. However, any dimensional shift or relocation of the air tube outwardly from the surface of the tip presents an abrasive edge to the interior tissue of the patient and can cause discomfort. FIGS. 14 and 14a illustrate an enema tip 120 and air tube 121 construction which provide at least two very important advantages to conventional enema apparata.First, the cooperating design of these two components insures a smooth, flush fit of the end of the air tube relative to the exterior surface of the tip. Secondly, if the contrast medium barium tube 122 becomes separated from tip 120, leaving the tip in the patient, air tube 121 is able to be used to easily extract the tip. Enema tip 120 includes a centrally located barium passageway 123 and an air tube passageway 124 which is completely exterior of passageway 123 and is countersunk at its distal end 125. Air tube 121 is of a predetermined length and is substantially straight throughout its entire length with a conical shaped flared end 128. The angular pitch and diameter size of flared end 128 is compatible with the countersunk configuration of distal end 125 such that the flared end fits within the distal end in a flush to recessed arrangement It should be clear that if tip 120 becomes separated from tube 122, tube 121 can be used to pull tip 120 free of the patient by pulling on end 129. It is also end 129 to which a source of air is connected for injection of air as part of the double contrast study. Flared air tube 121 may also be used in a unique manner even with enema tips which do not have the corresponding countersunk end on the air tube passageway.Referring to FIG. 15, which is similar in certain respects to the enema tip structure of FIG. 2, enema tip 130 and tube 131 include an air tube passageway 132 which is disposed substantially parallel to contrast medium barium passageway 133. Passageway 133 is comparatively larger than air tube passageway 132 and is centrally located within both the tip and tube. Tube 131 includes an outwardly angled protuberance 134 which is internally threaded see FIG. 16 at its free end. This threaded fitting enables the connection of a tube retaining assembly 137 to the protuberance. Assembly 137 includes a hollow tube retainer 138 which is externally threaded at first end 139 and internally threaded at opposite end 140. Assembly 137 also includes a hollow retainer cap 141 which is externally threaded at one end for engagement with end 139 of the tube retainer. Continuing with reference to the detail of FIG. 16, the positional relationship of protuberance 134, retainer 138 and hollow retainer cap 141 are illustrated. The detail of FIG. 16a is a full section view of the retainer and illustrates the presence of a countersunk surface 144 centered around tube opening 145. Surface 144 is compatibly sized in diameter and angular pitch to receive the flared end 128 of air tube 121. Consequently, by first inserting end 129 into retainer 138 and advancing the tube to a position of abutting contact of flared end 128 with surface 144, the air tube will be at its maximum extension into tip 130. Then, as cap 141 is threaded into place and tip 146 projects into the center of the countersunk surface toward opening 145, air tube 121 is locked in position.Since tip 1 46 is hollow, an air flow path is maintained from end 147 of cap 141 through to hole 148 in tip 130. With this configuration, a predetermined length for tube 121 is an important consideration so that end 129 will not extend beyond the end of hole 148 where it could irritate the patient. Connection of a source of air to end 147 may be achieved by a variety of structures including, but not limited to, those illustrated in FIGS.2a, 10 and 21. While considerations of patient comfort, ease of operation, adaptability and versatility are important in the design of enema apparata, there remain other important factors such as the reliability of the apparatus and how well it works. One area of importance is the retention of the enema tip in the patient. My U. S. Patent No.3,459,175 issued on August 5, 1969 and my copending U. S.patent application Serial No. 39,280 filed on May 16, 1979 disclose various retention means for enema apparata.U. S. Patent No. 3,459,175 discloses an annular element which oprerates much like a balloon and is positioned around the enema tube. When inflated, this element enlarges and closes off the point of entry into the patient of the enema tip and tube and thereby prevents any barium from being discharged prematurely. This annular element also has certain retention capabilities depending upon its precise manner and location of use. These types of annular elements are typically of a cylindrical shape in order to be effective over a greater distance of longitudinal travel relative to their inflated diameter size. At the time of insertion, the annular element is collapsed and the ease of insertion is directly related to the size of the element. FIG. 17 illustrates an annular element concept which includes as part of its construction an air tube for use with double contrast studies. Annular element 151 is generally cylindrical and has a pleated or corrugated configuration with the longitudinal axis of the corrugations extending substantially parallel to centerline 152 of the enema tube receiving aperture 153. Element 151 includes an inner wall 154 which defines aperture 153 and a flexible outer enclosing skin 155 defining an interior void.Skin 155 is the portion that is corrugated and air tube 156 is disposed in the interior void adjacent inner wall 154 and this tube terminates at edge 157. The free end 158 of air tube 156 is used for connection to a supply source of air. Inflation tube 159 is connected to lower edge 160 and opens into the interior void for inflation of element 151. During the inflation of element 151, skin 155 expands outwardly thereby making contact with the patient s surrounding tissue and walls. The FIG. 17 illustration can be considered similar in some regards to FIG. 3, and it is to be noted that the air tube 47 of FIG. 3 extends through annular element 49 and lays beside the exterior of the enema tip. As has been discussed above, one arrangement possible is to extend the air tube through a passageway in the tip thereby leaving the exterior size and shape of the tip unaffected. The embodiment of FIGS. 14 and 15 focus on this concept and the advantages of the associated flared air tube of FIG.14a have previously been discussed. The enema tip and tube construction of FIG. 14 is suitably arranged for use with annular element 151. If flared air tube 121 is also used, its path is first through passageway 124 and then through air tube 156. The corrugated construction of element 151 enables a more compact, collapsed size than what is achievable with true cylindrical annular elements. The result of this more compact smaller size is that there is greater ease of insertion and less discomfort to the patient. The configuration of FIG. 17 is molded as a single, integral member out of a synthetic material, such as one of the various thermosetting or thermoforming plastics. The design is particularly well suited as an option which the physician can either slide onto the enema tube and use or not use as he elects. The almost universal adaptability means that its uses are not restricted to one particular enema tip and tube manufacturer nor to any one particular style. Referring to FIG. 18, there is illustrated a further extension of the concept and structure disclosed by the annular element of FIG. 17. Enema tip subassembly 163 includes a corrugated, inflatable annular element 164, an enema tip 165, an air tube 166, and an element inflation tube 167. Air tube 166 extends through element 164 and includes a connecting portion 168 which attaches to tip 165 and provides a continuous, axially aligned air flow passageway including air passageway 169 which is located in the enema tip. Tip 165 includes a flow passageway 170 for the contrast medium barium which terminates at opening 173 and may optionally include additional flow exit openings such as, for example, opening 174. The enlarged end base of tip 165 is provided with a centrally located tubular fitting 175 which is substantially concentric around flow passageway 170. Fitting 175 provides the connection means for a barium delivery tube. The method of connection is a press fit and fitting 175 may optionally be of a serrated design similar to FIG. 6 to enhance the tightness and reliability of the press fit. By sizing fitting 175 to fit snugly within the connecting tube for barium deliver and by sizing aperture 176 to fit snugly around the outside diameter of the connecting tube, a complete enema assembly is created. Similar to the construction of FIG.17, subassembly 163 is molded as a single, integral member out of a suitable synthetic material. This single member construction greatly reduces the time and effort normally expended to assembly a variety of piece parts together in order to begin the fluoroscopy examination. With the disclosed subassembly, the physician or technician or nurse merely needs to connect the barium flow tube and the sources of air to tubes 166 and 167 and begin the procedure. There is no requirement to locate several parts nor to assure that the specific parts selected are all compatible with one another for a proper fit.Similarly, there is no need to inventory or store a wide variety of piece part mixtures, one size fits all. At this point, it is necessary to regress for a moment and redirect consideration to the apparatus disclosed inFIG. 10. By use of air valve 84, the flow direction of air can be controlled through either branch. By coupling tube branch 85 to tube 167 FIG. 18 and branch 86 to tube 166, the selective use of air bulb 82 and air valve 85 enables the physician to first inflate annular element 164 and thereafter conduct a double contrast study introducing air through the other branch when required. If either step, but not both, is performed solely, then air valve 84 remains in a fixed orientation and air is delivered through only one branch.The FIG. 10 arrangement is also suitable for use with the FIG. 17 annular element and air delivery tubing as well as with related devices which have a requirement for two separate sources of air flow. Referring to FIG. 19, there is illustrated a novel apparatus for selectively introducing either a contrast medium barium or air and for removal of the contrast medium by a suction force. Apparatus 179 is configured with a collapsible, accordion like shape which is substantially straight flat on two opposite sides 180, 181 and curved on the two intermediate sides 182, 183.The substantially straight sides allow the apparatus to be oriented in a horizontal position see FIGS. 20 and 21 . Flow port 184 is centrally located between the curved sides, but is offset from the centerline toward side 181.With apparatus 179 disposed in a horizontal orientation, resting on side 180 FIG. 20 , the flow port is nearer the top of the apparatus. With apparatus 179 reversed as to its horizontal orientation see FIG. 21 , flow port 184 is nearer the bottom of the apparatus. Prior to use, apparatus 179 is partially filled with a contrast medium and hand pump 185 is used to introduce air into the interior of the apparatus. When apparatus 179 is oriented as in FIG. 20, the introduction of air flows from inlet 186 to flow port 184 and out through hose 187.Alternatively, when the apparatus is reversed, the incoming air creates a pressure head over the barium which causes the barium to flow out hose 187. Referring to FIG. 22, one end of apparatus 179 is illustrated in greater detail. Attached as part of this end is a handle member 190 which has an undercut area adjacent the end surface for easier gripping. Handle member 190 is particularly well suited for compressing and extending the body of the apparatus collapsing or opening the accordion for pumping barium into the patient and suction removal of the barium from the patient. If manual force is going to be used for collapsing the accordion shape in lieu of using the hand pump for barium introduction, inlet 186 is closed. The removable nature of hose 187 from flow port 184 allows for the easy filling and cleaning of the apparatus. The main body portion of apparatus 179 which has the accordion like shape is hollow throughout its interior and is sealed closed between flow port 184 and inlet 186. An alternative construction is disclosed by FIG. 23 wherein a collapsible contrast medium bag 191 filled with a contrast medium is disposed within apparatus 192 and is interiorly connected to flow outlet port 193. The opposite end includes an inlet and hand pump similar to apparatus 179.As air is introduced, the air pressure compresses bag 191 causing the contrast medium to flow out through port 193. The collapsible bag is able to be refilled by connection of a source of contrast medium and reintroduction under slight pressure. Alternatively, it is envisioned that an additional flow outlet may be placed in the end of the apparatus seeFIG. 24 and that each exit port, port 194 for air and port 195 for contrast medium via an interior collapsible bag be fitted with control valves 196 and 197, respectively, for selecting what type of flow is desired. While the invention has been illustrated and described in detail in the drawings and foregoing description, the same is to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive in character, it being understood that only the preferred embodiment has been shown and described and that all changes and modifications that come within the spirit of the invention are desired to be protected.