# Epistaxis sponge.

## Abstract
An article to be used as an aid in the treatment of epistaxis containing a fluid absorbing portion 4 shaped for approximate adaptation into at leapt part of the nasal cavity and containing a semi rigid handle portion 1 anchored within the fluid absorb ing portion and extending a sufficient distance beyond the fluid absorbing portion to be capable of being readily grasped by a use to enable the manipulation of the fluid absorbing portion into and out of the nasal cavity during the treatment of epi staxis.

## Claims
Claims 1. An absorbent device for the treatment of epistaxis comprising means for absorbing fluids shaped for insertion into the nasal cavity and capable of approximate adaption to the shape of one chamber thereof and semi rigid means associated with said fluid absorbing means for handling and manipulating said fluid absorbing means into and from the nasal cavity. 2. The device of Claim 1 wherein the shape of said fluid absorbing means is substantially pear shaped in cross section and the height is generally about twice the width measured at a point below half the height of said fluid absorbing means. 3. The device of Claim 2 wherein said fluid absorbing means is selected of materials which are capable of absorbing fluid while remaining able to conform in shape to the inside configuration of the nasal cavity. 4. The device of Claim 3 wherein said fluid absorbing means is selected of materials which are capable of resiliently expanding overall when absorbing fluid so as to approximate the inside configuration of the nasal cavity thereby applying pressure to the surface of the nasal mucosa as fluid is absorbed. 5. The device of Claim 4 wherein the fluid absorbing means comprises a core of absorbent cotton surrounded by at least one layer of cotton gauze. 6. The device of Claim 1 wherein said handling means is anchored in said fluid absorbing means and extends lengthwise beyond the fluid absorbing means a sufficient distance to be capable of being grasped externally of the nasal cavity when said fluid absorbing means is received in the nasal cavity, thereby providing for ease of insertion of a portion of the device into the nasal cavity and subsequent removal therefrom. 7. A method of treating epistaxis comprising the steps of inserting a means for absorbing fluid at least partially into the nasal cavity is wherein said means includes a material capable of absorbing fluid sahped generally pear shaped in cross section and capable of expanding slightly when absorbing fluid to thereby more closely approximate the interior shape of the nasal cavity, and further includes a rler le StCi i trbich is anchored in sald fluid absorbing material and extends outside the nasal cavity when the fluid absorbing material has been inserted therein waiting a sufficient period of time for the fluid absorbing material to expand sufficiently to inhibit the flow of blood and permit coagulation to begin and removing the fluid absorbing material by grasping the flexible stem anchored to the fluid absorbing material and withdrawing the expanded fluid absorbing material from the nasal cavity. 8. An epistaxis treatment device comprising a shaped article for insertion and for approximate adaption into one chamber of the nasal cavity and provided with a means for absorbing fluid on at least that portion of the article received in the nasal cavity, and with means for handling and manipulation extending beyond the fluid absorbing means to the outside of the nasal cavity for facilitating insertion and removal of the absorbing means from the nasal cavity during the treatment of epistaxis.

## Description
EPISTAXIS SPONGE BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Epistaxis or nose bleed while quite common and generally experienced by everyone at one time or another is at best an inconvenient and often disturbing experience. Even though considerable advances have been achieved in the treatment of a wide variety of disorders, the time honored methods for controlling anterior nose bleeds remain relatively unimproved.Simply tilting the head back, using cold compresses, squeezing the anterior part of the nose, i.e. the septum, and finally packing the nasal cavity are employed as standard epistaxis inhibiting techniques. The drawbacks to these techniques are personally known to almost everyone and in particular the discomfort of squeezing the nose with the resultant need for breathing through the mouth. In the case of packing, there is a need for special instruments and professional expertise when both packing and unpacking the nasal cavity. Nose bleeds can occur for a wide variety of reasons including rheumatic ver, infectious mononucleosis, sickel cell anemia systemic hatmorrhagic disorders and hypertension in adults , hemangiomas, hereditary telangiectasis and angiofibromas. The most common cause of expistaxis in children arise in the nasal cavity, for example, by excessive drying, which can be traumatized by such activities as nose picking. The most common location for such varicosities is on the nasal septumabove the nasal floor and approximately 0.5 cm inside the nose. This is characterized as Kiesselbauch s area and is the anastomotic site for a number of arterioles. Traumatizing a varicosity in this area sufficiently to produce epistaxis is commonly referred to as an anterior nose bleed. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION A shaped, semi rigid and absorbent device is provided which is adapted to be easily inserted and removed from the nasal cavity Such a shaped device is by virtue of its structure capable of absorbing the blood while providing pressure on the traumatized mucosa, which will tend to inhibit further bleeding. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAIfINGS Fig. 1 is a perspective view of the device of the present invention. Fig 2 is an end view from the direction shown by the arrow I of Fig. 1. Fig. 3 is a partial cross sectional view taken along the lines and arrows 3 3 in Fig. 1. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS The device of the present invention is characteristically constructed around a semi rigid, flexible stem 1 which is provided with a gripping portion or handle 2 and an anchor 3. The length of the stem can vary as well as the specific shape of the handle and the configuration of the anchor depending on the functional requirements and physical properties of the materials selected. Of importance, is the requirement that the stem 1 be both rigid and yet flexible enough for manipulation during insertion of the shaped absorbent tip into the nasal cavity and removal therefrom while providing some support for the remainder of the structure.In the embodiment shown, a thin wire stem is provided which provides the necessary functionality when absorbent cotton 4 is utilized as the core material surrounded with at least one and preferably more than one cotton gauze outer wrapping 5. It is of course possible to substitute suitable plastic materials for the metal stem. Likewise, different handle and anchoring configurations can bo employed without the need for extensive experimentation. The cotton gauze and absorbent cotton may also be replaced with suitable natural or synthetically manufactured absorbent materials as long as the finished device retains the capacity to generally hold its shape and preferably expand slightly when absorbing blood through the outer surface and into the interior of the device. In the embodiment shown, conventional absorbent cotton 4 is provided as the core supported by the metal stem 1 and its associated anchor 3 and surrounded typically by several layers of cotton gauze 5 to form generally the shape shown in Figs. 1 and 2. For optimum results, the dimension a b Fig. 3 should be approximately 4 cm to be suitable for an adult. Several sizes can, of course, be constructed, i.e. 3.5 cm, 3 cm and 2c, to accommodate differences in patient anatomy. The most preferred dimensions will approximately bear the following relative relationships in the embodiment described Len th Haigbt Width a b 4 cm c d 2.5 cm e f 1.25 cm 3 5 cm 2.25 cm 1.125 cm 3.0 cm 2.0 cm 1.0 cm 2.0 cm 1.5 cm 0.75 cm The anteroposterior dimension c d and the transverse dimension e f are important for both adaptation and a comfortable fit for the device into the nasal cavity. It is a particularly important aspect of the present invention that the pear shaped cross section be maintained as close as is practical to the pear like shape of the vestibule of the anterior nasal cavity.In general, a width c f , measured laterally or transversely of the width at a point below the mid point of the cross section shown in Fig. 2, would preferably be approximately one half the height c d of the article. The expistaxis sponge of the present invention can also be used to sponge or mop or provide control of bleeding points in the mucosa of the nasal cavity during minor surgery. This invention has been described with reference to its current preferred embodiment, however, it will be appreciated that a wide variation in material selection is possible and other materials may be sub witted and obtain the functional advantages disclosed herein. Likewise, further modifications are possible, as for example, the incorporation of soluble medicaments in the absorbent material or on the surface thereof to aid on coagulation, the prevention of infection or the like, without detracting from the function of the device, where such additives are a contemplated improvement for either a general or specialized function.