# Tool to fit to the self moving tractor for cleaning the road edges.

## Abstract
A bracket 1 is foreseen fitted on the left side of a tractor 3 , supporting a tool holder 4 of line, in two points on rotating knuckles 5, 6 and on a jack 7 the tool holder 4 underlies to the movement on a vertical plane by a fork guide 11 on the right side of the tracton 3 , permitting in this way to the tool 22 a suspended position when not used and another position of contact to the ground. The tool holder 4 supports a motor assembly on a flange 17 for driving a milling cylindrical piece with circular generating blades 23 permitting to move freely the material from the edge, when the tractor 3 is advancing, allowing a rectilinear edge. For shielding the tool 22 , a bonnet 24 is foreseen to be fitted by means of a hinge on the above mentioned flange 17 , thus allowing to change its position to adjust the throw of the earth. For adjusting the tool holder 4 to the job requirements, an adjustable tension control is foreseen on the end of the tool holder 4 by means of a screw 26 enabling to set the position of the wheel 27 leaning on the ground. The motor assembly can be gradually advanced by means of a jack 13 contained in the tool holder 4 to allow, when the tractor 3 is stationary, to carry out transversal drains for the rain water downflow.

## Claims
Claims. 1 Tool to fit to the self moving tractor for cleaning the road edges, characterized by the fact that the tool is fitted on the self moving tractor using an adjust bracket to be fixed of The left wall of the vehicle. The said bracket supports on two points the tool in a transversal position on rotating knuckles, the external of which is movable by means of a bracket joint while The inside one is stationary. When getting the bracket to return, the tool can be brought from the suspended position of not employ to the lowered one in contact with the ground. 2 Tool to fit to the self moving tractor for cleaning the road edges, according to The previous claim, characterized by the fact that this movement is made on a vertical plane as is further conditioned to it by the position on The right side of the self moving vehicle of the guide device with vertical split fork. 3 Tool to fit to the self moving tractor for cleaning the road edges, according to the previous claims, characterized by The fact that the tool holder supports the motor assembly on a flange and bears The mii ling tool consisting of a cylindrical piece with circular generating blades on a shaft 4 Tool to fit to the self moving tractor for cleaning the road edges, according to the previous claims, characterized by the fact that the operator arrived on the working line controls The lowering of the tool holder and regulates the tracer point for adjusting the tool to the working depth, letting then the tractor advance Thus permitting to remove the exceding part of road edge and consequently forming a rectilinear one. 5 Tool to fit to the self moving tractor for cleaning The road edges, according to the previous claims, characterized by the fact that for shielding the tool and regulating the throw of the milling product, a bonnet is foreseen to be fitted by means of hinges to the flange sue porting the motor assembly. By properly regulating the position on the bonnet vertical plane, the milling product throw can be adjusted. 6 Tool tp fit to the self moving tractor for cleaning the road edges, aeoding to the previous claims, characterized by the fact that the motor assembly can be gradually brought forward axially through a jack longitudinally fitted inside the tool bearer. With The tractor static nary, the operator controls Through the said jack the execution of a transversal drÅain for the donflow of the rain water. 7 Tool to fit to the self moving tractor for cleaning the road edges, according to the previous claims characterized by the fact that a bracket 1 is foreseen, to be fixed by means of four bolts 2 to the tractor 3 right side. The longitudinal tool holder 4 is with rectangular section and can be fitted on the tractor on rotating knuckles 5 and 6, this last one determined by 3 ack 7, The stem 8 of which is articulated in 9 to bracket 1. By means of the jack, the tool can be brought from a suspended position to an operating one. 8 Tool to fit to the self moving tractor for cleaning The road edges, according to the previous claims, characterized by the fact that the tool is allowed to make but vertical movements by the fork guide 11 fitted through bolts on the tractor right side. For the longitudinal movement of the motor assembly, jack 13 is foreseen inside 12 on 14 by means of pin 15 to axial part 16 which gets out from coaxial 4. 9 Tool to fit to the self moving tractor for cleaning the road edges, according to the previous claims, characterized by the fact that at the end of part 16, flange 17 is foreseen supporting rotor 18 which bears shaft 19 on bearings 20 with motor 21. On the other side, the shaft bears tool 22 with cylindrical piece and circular generating blades 23. For the tool shielding, a bonnet 24 is foreseen to be fitted on flange 17 by means of hinge 18 which allow the bonnet control to adjust the milled product throw. 10 Tool to fit to the self mDving tractor for cleaning the road edges, according to the previous claims, characterized by the fact that to in efEase the throw, bonnet 24 is fitted in a higher position. 11 Tool to fit to the self moving tractor for cleaning the road edges, according to The previous claims, characterized by the fact that on the tool holder 4, a tracer point device 25 is foreseen with a screw adjustment 26 regulating the height travel of wheel 27 moving on the ground.

## Description
Tool to fit to the self moving tractor for cleaning the road edges .The invention refers to a tool which, when fitted on The tractor,per mits to carry out the cleaning of The road edges with rectilinear brim by means milling, and to carry out transversal drains, which properly interval led enable The downflow of The rain water into the lateral trunk lines.In order to maintain the efficiency condition of the road seat, avoi ding The grass mantle invasion or even that of The ground on The edgesn in The country roads periodical operations are required for restoring the track limits. At present wuch heavy operations are performed by means of hand digging and hoeing. The invention permits to go on speedily with The above operation and employing only one operator who while driving the self moving tractor, controls the operation. phases too. This is possible because The tool is fitted on The self moving tractor using an adjusting brackt to be fixed of The left wall of the vehicle.The said bracket supports on two points The tool in a transversal position on rotating knuckles ,the external of which is movable by means of a bracket joint while Theinside one is stationary. When getting The bracket to return, the tool can be brought from The suspended position of not employ to The lowered one in contact with the ground. This mo vement is made on a vertical plane as is further conditioned to it by the position on The right side of the self moving vehicle of the guide device with vertical split fork.This makes the tool integrally operating with The driving tractor permitting only displacements on vertical plane for the adjustment of the working share and for performing the dripping drains The tool holder supports the motor assembly on a flange and bears the milling tool consisting of cylinrrical. piece with circular generating blades on a shaft. The operator arrived on the working line controls the lowering of the tool holder and regulates The tracer point for adjusting the tool to the working depth, letting then The tractor advance thus per mitring to remake the exceding part of road edge and consequently for ming a rectilinear one.For shielding the tool and regulating The throw of the milling product, a bonnet is foreseen to be fitted by means of hinges to the flange supporting the motor assembly. By properly retu lating the position on the bonnet vertical plane, The milling product throw can be adjusted. The motor assembly can be gradually brought forward axially through a jack longitudinal fitted inside The tool bearer.With the tractor stationary, the operator controls through The said jack the execution of a transversal drain for The downflow of the rain water.An execution version, which is not limiting, is illustrated on The drawings of tables 1 and 2, where fig. 1 is the schematic view of the tool transversally fitted on the tractor and showang the supporting bracket made integral with the vehicle and holding the tool on an inside rota ting knuckle to an outside jack joint. Fig. 2 is a view of the gidi ng fork which is applied on the right side and makes The tool integr ally working with the tractor and allows but displacements on a verti cal plane. Fig. 3 is a partially sectioned view of the motor assembly.Fig. 4 shows the regulation device of the tracer point for determiniW ng the working depth. Fig. 5 is the view from above of The shielding bonnet in employ condition and showing partially dashed the tool fitted on the shaft of the motor assembly. Fig. 6 is the view of The toç ol holder end bearing the tool shielded by the bonnet raised up and, below, a view of the working performed on the road rectilinear edge as well as of two dripping drains. According to the execution illustrated in a merely indicative way and, consequently not limiting, a bracket I is foreseen, to be fixed by means of four bolts 2 to the tractor 3 right side.The longitudinal tool holder 4 is with rectangular section and can be fitted on the tractor on rotating knuckles 5 and 6, this last one determined by jack 7, the stem 8 of which is articulated. in 9 to bracket 1. By means of the e jack, the tool can be brought from a suspended position to an operating one. The tool is allowed to make but vertical movements by the fork guide 11 fitted through bolts on the tractor right side. For theclongitudinal movement of The motor assembly , jack 13 is foreseen inside 12 on 14 by means of pin 15 to axial part 16 which gets out from coasial 4. At the end of part 16, flange 17 is foreseen supporting rotor 18 which bears shaft 19 on bearings 20 with motor 21. On the other side, The shaft bears tool 22 with cylindrical piece and circular generating blades 23. For the toll shielding, a bonnet 24 is foreseen to be fitted on flange 17 by means of hinge 18 which allows the bonnet control to adjust The milled product throw. To increase The throw, bonnet 24 is fitted in a higher po sition. On the tool holder end 4, a tracer point device 25 is foreseen with a screw adjustment 26 regulating the height travel of wheel 27 moving on the ground. The device can be fitted according to different connections to several types of tractors.In practice, the particulars of execution, the materials, the accessories and The fitting means can be differently foreseen.