# Solvent delivery system.

## Abstract
A solvent delivery system which provides a substantially uniform flow includes two synchronized piston adapted to serially transport successive solvent compositions from one piston to the other prior to delivery to a chromatography column.

## Claims
that Is Claimed Is 1. A solvent delivery system comprising a plurality of solvent sources a first piston cylinder having a first piston lineraly movable therein, said first piston cylinder having an inlet and an outlet, said inlet being in fluid communication with said sources a second piston cylinder having a second piston linearly movable therein, said second piston cylinder having an inlet and an outlet, said inlet of said second piston cylinder being in fluid communication with said outlet of said first piston cylinder means, affixed to said first and said second pistons, for passively synchronizing the movement of said first piston to that of said second piston whereby fluid can be transferred from said first cylinder to said second piston cylinder and means for actively moving said second piston. 2. System as claimed in Claim 1 further comprising means for controlling said fluid communication. 3. System as claimed in Claim 2 wherein said means for controlling fluid communication includes a pair of ball check valves. 4. System as claimed in Claims 1 or 2 further comprising means for controlling the flow of solvents from said solvent sources to said first piston cylinder. 5. System as claimed in Claim 4 wherein said means of solvent flow control are electronically controlled valves. 6. System as claimed in Claim 1 wherein said means for passively synchronizing said first and said second pistons is at least one tie rod being connected to said first and said second piston by linkages. 7. System as claimed in Claims 1 or 6 wherein said means for passively synchronizing said first and said second pistons is adjusted such that when said second piston is at its maximum pump stroke said first piston is at its maximum intake stroke. 8. System as claimed in Claim 7 wherein said first and said second pistons have the same stroke lengths and the full stroke lengths of said pistons are equal. 9. System as claimed in Claim 1 wherein said pistons displace equal volumes of fluid during each cycle. 10. System as claimed in Claim 1 wherein said first piston has a slightly larger diameter than said second piston. 11. System as claimed in Claim 10 wherein said first and said second pistons have equal full stroke 1 cnlt Ils. 12. System as claimed in Claim I wherein said means for actively moving said second piston includes a stepper motor. 13. System as claimed in Claim 12 wherein said means for actively moving said second piston also includes a cam on the shaft of said stepper motor, said cam being cooperatively interfaced with said second piston by a cam follower cooperatively engaging said second piston. 14. System as claimed in Claim 13 wherein said cam has a profile which ensures that the flow rate of fluid from said second piston is linear during the pumping stroke thereof.

## Description
SOLVENT DELIVERY SYSTEM Background of the Invention The present invention generally relates to a solvent delivery system and, in particular, relates to such a system including two synchronized pistons adapted to serially transport successive solvent mixtures therebetween prior to delivery thereof to a chromatographic column. The advent of solvent gradient analysis in the field of liquid chromatography has resulted in the need for improved delivery systems, i.e., means for delivering solvent mixtures, or compositions, from a solvent reservoir to the chromatographic column. The major difficulty is to satisfy the requirements to change the solvent composition while delivering a small volume thereof to the column, to select low stable percentage composition levels and to maintain a uniform flow rate to the column while column pressure changes. To date, these requirements have been difficult to simultaneously satisfy with either pre pump gradient systems or post pump gradient systems . A conventional post pump gradient former generally includes a separate pump and motor for each solvent. Because the flow rate of each pump varies during each cycle of the pump, this system requires a miser to smooth out the composition variations which occur where the two solvent streams are joined. The inclusion of such a mixer increases the volume and thus the time required to change composition levels. A further problem is that solvents having different viscosities are often used to form a single solvent composition. When the solvent composition is changed, the column pressure changes which in turn changes the flow rate of one or more of the solvents.That is, each pump operates under the silme pressure change, and thus the volume of cach solvent pumped will depend upon its comlssrc6sibility. Thus, each solvent has a different flow rate. Hence, the solvent composition is always somewhat in error. A conventional pre pump gradient system generally includes a single motor and pump. In such a system the solvent composition is generated by low pressure valves selecting solvents during the refill stroke of the delivery piston. One inherent disadvantage of such a system is the conflicting requirements on the time allowed to refill the delivery piston cylinder. The conflicting requirements are that to maintain uniform flow to the column it is required to reduce the refill time as much as possible, but reducing the refill time increases the average flow rate through the solvent selector valves to a level where the finite valve switching time limits the minimum controllable volume and hence limits the minirnum controllable composition level.Additionally, valve switching i. complicated by the non linear flow of solvents through the valves during refill. One practical solution is a delivery system which includes a pulse damper, a discrete mixing chamber and correction curves relating valve programming to particular solvent compositions. Summary of the Invention Accordingly, one object of the present invention is to provide a solvent delivery system which maintains a substantially uniform solvent delivery flow of selected solvent compositions without the need for a discrete mixer. Another object of the present invention is to provide such a solvent delivery system which is time independent of the valves controlling the flow of the individual solvents. These objects are achieved, at least in part, by a solvent delivery system including two synchronized pistons adapted to serially transport successive solvent compositions from one piston to the other piston prior to dc Ivt ry to a column apparatus. Other objects and advantages will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed specification in conjunction with the appended drawing. Brief Description of the Drawing The drawing, which is not drawn to scale, includes Figure 1, which is a schematic representation of a solvent delivery system embodying the principles of the present invention Figure 1A, which is a plane view of a cam useful in the system of Figure 1 and Figures 2A 2H, which are timing diagrams showing the dynamic relationship between the elements of the system shown in Figure 1. Detailed Description of the Invention A solvent delivery system, generally indicated at 10 in the drawing and embodying the principles of the present invention, includes a pumping piston 12 having a pumping piston cylinder 14 associated therewith and a metering piston 16 having a metering piston cylinder 18 associated therewith. The system 10 further includes a means 20 for controlling the movement of the pumping piston, as well as a means 22 for passively synchronizing the movement of the metering piston 16 to the movement of the pumping piston 12.Thus, via the means 22 the netering piston 16 is slaved to the punping piston 12. Tle system 10 further includes a plurality of solvent sources 24, or reservoirs, individually designated as A, B, C and D and conduit means 26, 28 and 30 for conveying solvents, respectively, from the reservoirs 24 to the metering piston cylinder 18, from the metering piston cylinder 18 to the pumping piston cylinder 14, and from the pumping piston cylinder 14 to a chromatography column not shown . In a specific embodiment, the means 20 for controlling the movement of the pumping piston includes a stepper motor 32 which rotates through a predetermined angle in response to each electrical pulse provided thereto. Stepper motors are well known in the electrical art and as such, a detailed description thereof is deemed unnecessary herein. However, in this particular embodiment the stepper motor 32 is designed to have 400 steps for each complete rotation. Further, it is preferred that the stepper motor 32 be provided with an electrical signal having a maximum frequency of 5000 pulses per second. Thus, the stepper motor 32 rotates at a maximum speed of 12.5 revolutions per second. The electrical signal is provided by a system control circuitry 34.The system control circuitry 34 referred to herein is explained in detail in a co pending patent application entitled Control Circuit ForLiquid Chromatograph , filed concurrently herewith, assigned to the assignee hereof, and which is incorporated by reference herein. A shaft 36 is driven by stepper motor 32 through a four to one reduction not shown and is rotated thereby. Preferably, the shaft 36 carries a cam 38 and a shaft position indicator 40 thereon. The shaft position indicator 40 provides a signal, via a transducer 42, for example, to the control circuitry 34 for use thereby in coordinating the system operation The cam 38 preferably has a profile 44, i.e., a peripheral contour, as shown in Figure 1A. The cam 38 is contacted by a cam follower 46 which is adapted to translate the rotational movement of the cam 38 into linear motion of the pumping piston 12 within the pumping piston cylinder 14. Preferably, the pumping piston 12 includes a biasing means 48 associated therewith which maintains the cam follower 46 against the cam 38. The particular biasing means 48 employed is arbitrary, although a return spring mechanism is preferred. Although discussed in more detail in the abovementioned copending patent application, it should be noted herein that the electrical signal from the transducer 42 associated with the shaft position indicator 40 can be, in fact, used as a pumping piston position indicator for the control circuitry 34. As aforestated, the metering piston 16 is passively synchronized with the pumping piston 12 by the means 22, which in this embodiment is a pair of tie rods 50 together with piston linkages 52 and 54. As shown in Figure 1, the piston linkage 52 connects the tie rods 50 to the pumping piston 12 and the piston linkage 54 connects the tie rods 50 to the metering piston 16. Thus, the movement of both the metering piston 16 and the pumping piston 12 is controlled by the single stepper motor 32. The pumping piston 12 and the metering piston 16, via the means 22, are synchronized such that when the pumping piston 12 has reached the end of its pumping stroke, i.e., the pumping cylinder 14 is effectively empty, the metering piston 16 reaches the end of its intake stroke, i.e., the metering cylinder 18 is full, and vice versa. Hence, the total internal volume is fixed, and the inlet flow to the metering piston cylinder 18 is, for all intents and purposes, the same as the outlet flow from the pumping piston cylinder 14. In one specific embodiment, an electrical contact 56 is carried on the piston linkage 54 associated with the metering piston 16.A cooperatively adapted electrical contact 58 is affixed to one end 60 of a shaft 62 extending from the metering piston 16. The contact 56 and contact 58 are arranged such that a circuit is completed, i.e., the contact 56 makes connnection with the contact 58 when solvent delivery from the sources 24 to the metering piston cylinder 18 begins. When the linkage 54 forces the metering piston cylinder 16 to begin emptying the metering piston cylinder 18, the circuit is opened in preparation for the next cycle. Preferably, in the above arrangement, the metering piston 16 is provided with a bias spring 64 which holds the contact 56 against contact 58 when the pressure in the metering piston cylinder 18 is below a fixed level set by the bias spring in this case 100 p.s.i. is chosen.Thus, an electrical signal is provided at t2 Figure 2C, marking the beginning of solvent flow into the metering piston cylinder 18. The end of flow is marked at t4, Figure 2C, at which point the cam 38 has reached its high point. This point is marked electrically by sensor 42.Thus, the volume entering the metering piston cylinder is available as an electrical analog to be computed by the system control circuitry 34 from the number of steps representing position of the metering piston 16 occurring within the signal transitions t2 and t4. This volume, so derived, is the analog of the volume at 100 p.s.i. of mixture which left the pumping piston cylinder 14 on the previous stroke. The availability of this analog volume signal allows the system control circuitry 34, for instance, to program the valves A, B, C and D Figures 2D through 2G, such that the number of stepper motor 32 pulses any one valve is open NA as compared to the current number of stepper motor pulses between t2 and t4 NT is the desired NA.That is A NA NTT and the composition so generated is independent of the column back pressure. Furthermore, the accumulation of NT is a direct analog of the total volume of mixture referred to 100 p.s.i. which eaves the solvent delivery system. This analog signal is available to define column retention volume for eluting peaks. Preferably, the metering piston 16 has a diameter of about 0.417 cm, whereas the pumping piston 12 has a diameter of about 0.390 cm. By making the metering piston 16 somewhat larger in diameter than the pumping piston 12, not only is complete filling of the pumping piston cylinder 14 assured, but also the breaking of the contacts 58 and 56 is ensured. The above described system 10 can be further optimized by minimizing the volumes of the fluid carrying conduits 26, 28 and 30 therein. Specifically, the conduit means 26 connects the solvent sources 24 to the inlet of the metering piston cylinder 18. Fluid flow therethrough is controlled by a single set of ball check valves 66. The conduit means 28 connects the outlet of the metering piston cylinder 18 to the inlet of the pumping piston cylinder 14. Fluid flow therethrough is controlled via a single set of ball check valves 68. The conduit means 30 connects the outlet of the pumping piston cylinder 14 to the remainder of the chromatography system and fluid flow therethrough is controlled by a single set of ball valves 70.Thus, from the solvent sources 24 through the outlet of the pumping piston cylinder 14 there is a minimal amount of fluid conduit and only three sets of check valves, 66, 68 and 70. Further, although each undivided solvent source 24 includes a solvent source valve 72, the opening and closing thereof occurs during the refilling of the metering piston cylinder 18 and not during the refilling of the pumping piston cylinder 14. Thus, the nonpumping time of the system can and, in fact, is minimized independent of valve switching speed limitations. Referring now to the timing diagrams of Figure 2, the operation of the system 10 will be discussed in detail. Specifically, as shown in Figures 2A and 2B at tl, the pumping piston cylinder 14 has a fluid volume Vp therein which is at its maximum and, as shown inFigure 2B, the volume VM in the metering piston cylinder 18 is at its minimum. At time tl, the pumping piston 12 begins motion into the puning piston cylinder 14 to empty the contents thereof into the column, the metering piston 16 initially remains stationary while the gap between contacts 56 and 58 narrows while the pressure in tile metering cylinder 18 remains essentially constant until time t2 when contact, 56 touches contact 58 providing a continuity signal and simultaneously initiating the uniform retraction of the metering piston 16. The metering piston is then retracted at a uniform rate until t4, at which time the cam 44 is at its highest point, the metering piston cylinder 18 is completely filled and the pumping piston cylinder 14 is completely emptied. The pumping piston 12 then withdraws and the metering piston 16 pumps the solvent from the metering piston cylinder 18 to the pumping piston cylinder 14 between t4 and t5. The short time interval, t4 to t5, is achieved by employing a cam profile as shown in Figure 1A and programming the stepper motor angular velocity profile as shown inFigure 2H. The combination of these two factors results in a very short pumping piston cylinder 14 refill time. Also, during the pumping piston cylinder 14 refill period t4 to t5, the contact 56 separates from contact 58 comrr sing spring 64 as a result of the hydraulic pressure in metering piston cylinder 18 resulting from the slightly larger diameter metering piston 16 not being required to travel as far as the smaller pumping piston 12 while filling the pumping piston cylinder 14.This relation of metering piston 16 to pumping piston 12 ensures that the pumping piston cylinder 14 is totally filled at a positive pressure and also that when the metering piston contact 58 touches contact 56 marking the beginning of flow into the metering pump cylinder 18 the deceleration of the cam angular speed b has settled out to the nominal steady state value dictated by the desired flow. Figure 2H shows the transient is completed at t3 and Figure 2C shows solvent flow into the metering piston begins at t where X is stable. Figures 2D through 2G are representations of solvent flow from each of the solvent sources 24 during the time interval t2 to t4.Preferably, the sources 24 are all under the same pressure, which is relatively low, i.e., about 5 p.s.i. This pressure is much larger than the pressure drop caused by the flow into the metering piston cylinder 18 passing through valves 72, conduit 26 and input check valve 66. As a result, the flow into the metering pump piston cylinder 18 occurs at a slow uniform rate dictated by the metering piston 16 velocity and at a low fixed pressure of approximately 5 p.s.i. throughout. Thus, mixing occurs at constant pressure and constant flow and is independent of column pressure drop. In actual practice, the metering piston inlet check valve 66 requires a small but finite reverse flow to occur before closing. To prevent this transient from damaging the solvent control valves 24 and to improve the low level composition performance, the system control circuitry, preferably adjusts the solvent selector valves 72 such that the majority solvent valve is open during the transitions at t2 and t4 and remains open during the interval from t4 to t5 even though no flow occurs for the majority of the t4 and t5 interval. Thus, one solvent selector valve 24 is always open. Also, in practice, the inlet flow to the metering piston cylinder 1S is free of transients for valves 24 that are programmed to open at a phase removed from the ends t2 and t4.For this reason, it is preferred that the system control circuitry open the lowest composition solvent valves open near the middle of the t2 to t4 refill interval. The major advantage of the solvent delivery system 10 described herein can be recognized from the dotted line shown in Figure 2A which represents the flow to the column from the system 10. As shown, the column flow is substantially constant, which is ideal in liquid chromatography. In fact, the only deviation from the uniform flow occurs during transfer of the solvent composition from the metering cylinder 18 to the pumping cylinder 14. This, of course, has been minimized by providing a positive pressure means of transferring the mixture from the metering pump cylinder 18 to the pumping cylinder 14. In practice, the transfer time is limited by the dynamic response of the stepper motor. Mixing of the components of the solvent composition occurs not only from the serial delivery thereof into the metering cylinder but also from the delivery thereof to the pumping piston cylinder 14.Further mixing occurs when the solvent composition is pumped from the pumping piston cylinder 14. Thus, the solvent composition is thoroughly mixed without the need for a discrete solvent apparatus. Although a specific example has been described herein, other configurations are anticipated which do not deviate from the present invention. Hence, the description herein is deemed as exemplary and not as limiting, and the present invention is considered to be limited only by the claims appended hereto and the reasonable interpretation thereof.