# Printed circuit card with memory programmable logic.

## Abstract
This invention relates to a printed circuit card with a memory programmable logic, which finds particular applica tion in the control of automatic devices having small middle complexity and input output number. It comprised as a basic decoding and programmming element an electrically prog rammable, read only memory EPROM , preferably of the type having 12 inputs and 8 outputs, which is programmed in accordance with logic functions translated from the Boolean algebra, and which interfaces input terminals ON OFF con trol elements and output terminals connected to the devices, by using binary weighted code outputs which will apply the control voltage to said devices in accordance with the memorized instructions. This card also input filters, timers for the various output functions and amplifiers for the output voltage of the card.

## Claims
C L A I M S 1. A printed circuit card witii memory programmable logic, partictilarly for controlling automatic devices having small middle complexity and input output lumber, characterized in that it comprises as a basic decoding and programming elemeiit a read only memory, which is programmed according to logic functions translated from the Boolean algebra and which interfaces input terminals to be connected to ON OFF control elements and oitptit terminals to be connected to the devices under control using binary weighted code otitputs providing the coiitrol voltage to said devices in accordance with the instructions contained in the memory, said card including also input filters, timers for the various output functions and amplifiers for the output voltage of the card. 2. A printed circuit card as claimed ijj claim 1, wherein said read only memory is an electrically programmable read only memory EPROM . 3. A printed circuit card as claimed in claim 1, wherein said read only memory can be a programmable read only memory PROM or an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM . 4. A printed circuit card as claimed it claim 1, wherein said read only memory has 12 iripiits and R outputs. 5. A printed circuit card as claimed in claim 1, wherein said read only memory has eacit input which is split ill two inputs by means of diodes iii order to permit two contacts to be paralleled without using additioiial memory capacities, thereby giving the possibility of administrating 24 input signals. 5. A printed circuit card as claimed in claim 1, wherein additional lock and enable terminals intended to stop the device under control ill the case of necessity and to restart it are provided. 7. A printed circuit card as claimed i11 class 1, wherein said timers are of the ric type with potentiometers calibrating the delay time of energization, deenergization and or of both the energization and deenergization.

## Description
PRINTED CIRCUIT CARD WITH MEMORY PROGRAMMABLE LOGIC,PARTICULARLY FOR CONTR LLING AUTOMATIC T EVlCES HAVING stlALL MIDnLE COMPLEXITY AND IE PUT OIJTPUT NUMBERS . This invention generally relates to programmable logic systems and more particularly to a printed circuit card with memory programmable logic of a new design, which finds particular application in controlling automatic devices generally, by using as a memory element a read only memory. It is well known that the read only memories are intended to keep registered therein instruction or elemental order sequences which meet more or less complex functions.Each time one of these functions is to be performed, the control element reads the order sequences and carries out them. Of course, these memories can only be interrogated since their contents, in order to give a well definite permanent reading, have been registered directly by the manufacturer. There are also read only memories w hich, once they are removed from the devices in which they are operative, can be modified by the user, by erasing the informations contained therein and entering other informations which will remain permanent all the time that the memory is connected to the used device so called EPROM or ElectricallyProgrammable Read Only Memory . It is the object of the present invention to provide a printed circuit card using a programmable memory of the above mentioned type for controlling in accordance with tne lnformations contained therein, automatic devices or equipment having small middle complexity ana lnput output number, this card teing provided with electronic elements for obtaining, as a card output, the intonation contained in the memory and translated rrom the Boolean algebra, so as to be able to accomplish the requested function. More particularly, the printed circuit card according to tnis invention is characterized in that it comprises as a basic decoding and programming element, a rean only memory, which is programmed according to logic functions translated rrom the Boolean algebra and which interfaces input terminals to be connected to ON OFF control elements and output terminals tne to be connected to the devices under control by using binary weiht ed code outputs providing the control voltage to said devices in accordance with the instructions contained in the memory, said card including also input filters, timers for the various output functions and amplifiers for the output voltage or the card. Advantageously, tne reaa only memory is an bPKUM memory having 12 inputs ano 8 outputs and each input thereof is split in two by means of diodes in order to permit two contacts to De paralleled without using additional memory capacities, thereby giving the theoretical possibility of administrating 24 input signals According to a feature of this invention the card includes additional locking ana enablillg terminals intended to stop the operation or tne device under control in the case or necessity and then to restart it. Preferably, the timers are of the RC type with potentiometers ror calibrating tne delay time of energization, deener gization and or of both the energization and deenergization. The invention will be described now in greater detail a in connection with preferred embodiment thereof, given by way of example only and therefore not intended in limiting sense, and shown in the accompanying drawings, wherein Figs. 1 to 5 show illustrative diagrams given in order to facilitate the understanding of the invention. Fig.6 is an illustrative circuit diagram of loads which can be swhitched on or off by the card output Fig.7 shows an electromechanical diagram of an embodiment with the corresponding memory equivalent, and ttie used output in terms of 1ioolea1s algebra Fig.8 shows a card according to the present inventioii, with a possible circuit arrangement. Referring now to the drawings and narticularly toFigs 1 to 5, a detailed description of the operating principles of the invention will be given. In the programmable logic of this invention, each of the signals is applied directly to the card input active at 24 Volts of d.c. current and the desired series parallel operations are performed through the programming of a suitable memory. In order to better understand the operating and programming principle it is useful to refer first to the electromechanical circuit of Figs 1, 2 and 3. As can be noted by comparing Figs. 2 and 3 each single relay has a different weight in the determination of the number on which the 24 Volt voltage will be available. The relay R1, Fig. 2 when energized Fig. 3 , shifts the output to the right hand by one unit the relay R2 by two units and finally, if the relay R3 only should be energized, the output on the contact 4 would be energized Fig. 2 . If the energization of an output with the simultaneous energization of the relays Ri and R2 is to be obtained, the voltage must be taken at the output contact 3 Fig. 3 . In fact only the simultaneous energization of the relays R1 and R2 according to the Fig.3 activates this output contact 3. If one of the relays R1 and R2 or also if the relay R3 are actuated, there will be different positions of the contacts. It can be said in this case that the output U is energized by the set ideal of contacts Ii and I2. The weight of each single relay in determining the output member follows tie binary numeration, i. e. the first is 1, the second is 2, tiie third is 4 and, if other relays are present, the sequence would be 8, 1S, 32,54, 128, and so on.Their contacts are configureel so as to perform practically a binary decoding, thereby making it possible to have an output for every logic combination.Therefore the selection of the output s constitutes the programming operation. The programmable logic according to the invention uses an electronic memory of the EPROM type Electrically Programmable Read Only Memory , as a basic decoding and programming element. This memory has 12 input pins II I 2 addressing whidl correspond to 4096 different memory locations, that is all the possible combination of the 12 input pins, corresponding to 2 i.e. 4096 , are possible Fig.4 . The used memory is of the type 2732 corresponding to 32768 memory cells. It has 8 outputs Iji IlS, each of which is programmable 4096 times. If to the addressed pins A0 A11 of the memory inputs from limit swhitches F piish btittons P or tlie like, will be connected,each or them will carry a binary weight which, according to its condition open or closed will concur to the address tormation.Assuming that the pin 1 I1 is connected to the address Au and so on, there will result I1 20 1 AO I2 2 2 9 Al 2 I3 2 4 AZ 14 2 8 A3 15 24 lt A4 16 25 32 A5 11 I12 2 2048 All This means that, if for example the input 112 only is active presence of voltage at the address All the memory would be energized at the location 2048. If I12 and I2 were simultaneously active, the location 2048 2 r 2050 would be active. As a result of this, a memory having a capacity of 4096 locations assures a univocal response for any combina tion of 12 inputs I1 I12. By suitably programming the memory so that the outputs thereof will correspond to predetermined input combinations only, the programmable logic of the inven tion will be obtained. The programmer should be able to program the EPROM by translating the electromechanical diagram in the desired memory locations. A practical translation example could be the following if it is desired to control the output U1 by meaiis of tie set of inputs 11 and I2 the memory should be programmed as follows Address A4 A3 A2 Al AO Ul 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 0 2 0 0 0 1 0 0 3 0 0 0 1 1 1 4 0 0 1 0 0 0 5 0 0 1 0 1 0 6 0 0 1 1 0 0 7 0 0 1 l 1 1 8 0 1 0 0 0 0 That is, each time the condition occurs in which the address AO I1 and Al I2 are active to output must be active.To this recurrence it is automatically provided by starting from the formula written in Boolean algebra U1 e I1 x 12 where x indicates a set of contacts. The programmer relies upon the Boolean algebra applied to the card according to this invention. The object of the invention is a printed circuit card with metallized holes including a input filters b memory c timers d output amplifiers. For the following description see also Fig.S .INPUT FILTERS An electromechanical contact which is closing generates during a few eilliseconds several pulses due to the contact rebouncing. The input filters are provided for presenting cleaii n signals to the address pins of the memory. This is accomplished by slowing down and squaring the signals.Furthermore, the filters transfer the voltage level of the external circuits usually 24 volt of direct current to the voltage level of the internal circuits usually 5 Volt d.c. current . The input is considered as active from 15 volts d.c. current and is protected up to 100 Volts d.c.current. Each input is split in two inputs by means of diodes in order to permit two contacts to be paralleled without using additional memory capacities. Thus, there is the thcoretical capacity of administrating 24 signals wilic1s, together with the lock and enable signals, will bring the input number to 28. Each input is made visible by means of a green LED and has a protection against t11e polarityreversal. An example of input connections is shown in Fig. 5. MEMORY The memory herein used is the commercially available memory 2732 which has a capacity of 4069 locations for 8 outputs. This memory is programmed in a separate system and then inserted in the appropriate socket. It can be erased by means of a UV rays lamp located 2 cm over tlic transparent window of the memory 2732 for about 20 minutes and then reused several times. Of course, this memory contains the entered inforaations also for failure of the feed voltage.TIMERS Between the memory outputs and the power amplificator a precision timing is inserted, which can be programmed by means of microswitches provided for this purpose. The available possibilities are FU CTIONS CONTACTS Fig.8 123 no timing CAA energization delay A A C deenergization delay A C A energization and deenergization A A M delay where A open and C closed The delay time is depending on the vatucs of the capacitors and the measuring potentiometers employed.Generally values of 47 f and 2 M are employed, which will correspond to a timing of 10 seconds. Different delay times can be obtained by connecting to the appropriate terminals suitable potentiometers 20 t1 100 seconds .In this case the internal and external potentiometers are series connected and this can permit a coarse and fiIie adjustment. At any rate, when timings are made contact 1 open something must be always connected to the exteriil potentiometers terminals short circuit if the internal potentiometes are used since otherwise an infinite time would be obtained .OUTPUT AMPLIFIERS The output amplifiers perform a voltage level traxlsfer from 5 Volts to 24 Volts and comprise output PNP transistors. The direct current which can be switched in a conlinuous operation is of 1A 2Amax. A protection against the iliductive load switching is provided, which comprised a diode and a resistor. The active output is 24 Volt d.c. The loads are connected of the zero Volt line OV so that they can be fed back at the input as any other signal. This permit, for example, a memorization . If desired, components having protection against short circuits and over heating can be provided. The outputs are made visible by means of red LEDs inserted in the output amplifying stages from 5 to 24 Volts series connected to two transistors forming the power amplifiers. In Fig.6 there is shown an example of loads which can be switched by means of the card according to the invention. For example, to the output 1T1 a relay G, to the out put U2 a magnetic valve F, to the output U3 an electromagnet E, to the output U4 an alternating current static switch D, to the output U5 a direct current motor C for servo mechanisms, to tie output 06 a signalling lamp 13 and to the output U7 an electronic siren A can be applied. Of course, these loads have been indicated merely by way of example, in order to point out the versability of the card according to the invention. Another example is shown in Fig.7, where on the left hand the electromechanical diagram for controlling an electromagnetic valve EV1, whereas on the right hand the corresponding equivalent applied to tie EPRCli l with tie relevant Boolean formula are illustrated. In this fiffilre P1, P2 aid P3 are push buttons, F1 and F2 are limit switches, Rl, R2 and R3 are relays. As can be seen from the translatioxt, the inputs are all cpnnected to the 24 Volt line and, where possible, the paralleling has been made by using the splitting i two inputs by diodes provided for each input. The selfholding of Ri is easily obtained by feeding back to a free input the output of concern for esample the output 1 is fed back to the input 7B . Fig.8 shown the card according to the invention provided with the EPROM 2732 and with a possible circuit arrangement for controlling the devices under control. As can be seen from this Figure, the card has 12 inputs terminals IN 1 to IN 12 plus two look inputs terminals LOCK 1 and LOCK 2 and two enabling inputs terminals. As already said, to these terminals ON OFF elements are connected, for example limit swhitches, pushbuttons and so on for the programmable control of the devices. To these input terminals IN 1 to IN 12, as well as to the lock terminals input filters F1 to F14 are connected, of which the filter F1 is shown in detail and the other filters are indicated in dashed lines only since they are similar to the first one. Tlie filter Fl includes a RC filter formed of a capacitor C1 and a resistor R1 and a voltage dividor K2, R3 with a LED diode.Each input is split in two inputs by means of diodes uni, D 2 in order to permit the paralleling of two contacts. The outlet of each of the filters F1 F12 is connected to a logic inverter Il I12 of the Schmitt trigger type, which squares the input signal and bring it to the voltage level of the internal circuits 5 Volts to the inputs an to All of the EPROM memory. The eight output 00 07 of the memory are connected to timers Tl T8, of which only the timer Tl is shown in detail, while the other timers are illustrated by dashed lines since they are similar to the first one.The timer T1 comprises a resistor R4 series connected to three parallel connected microswitches 1, 2, 3 and to a capacitor C2 The microswitches 2 and 3 have a diode n4 and D3 respectively series connected to each other and arranged with reverse conduction directions. An internal calibrating potentiometer pl is parallel connected to the microswhitches l,23 and an external potentiometer P1 is provided which is connected to appropriate terminals. These timers will determine the delay time which is depending on the capacity varies of the capacitors C2 and the calibrating potentiometers pl p8, which values can be changed by the external potentiometers Pl P8 seriesconnected to the infernal potentiometers pl p8 so as to permit a coarse and fine adjustment. The function of timing has been already described in connection to the section relating to the timers. The timer outputs are connected to the input of a set of Schmitt triggers S1 SE, the other inputs of which are parallel connected to the filters F13 and Fl 4 through a circuit including a logic inverter IL9 the output of which is connected to a Schmitt trigger S9 the other input of which is connected to the output of the lock filter F13 and the output of which is connected to a logic inverter IL 10 the output of which is connected to the above mentioned inputs of the Schmitt triggers Sl S8. Each output of the Schmitt triggers S1 St i s connected to a corresponding logic inverter IL1 ILS, each output of which is connected to an amplifier Al AS, of which only the amplifier Al is shown in detail, since tie other amplifiers are similar thereto.The amplifier Al has a NPE transistor 11, the base of which is connected to the output of the corresponding inverter through a resistorR5 and the emitter of which is connected to the output terminals OV zero Volt , which are all parallel connected to each other, whereas the collector of the transistor 1 is series connected through a LET diode and a resistorR6 to the base of an output PNP transistor n2, tulle collector of which is connected to the output terminals U1 UQ of the devices under control and tlie emitter of which is connected to a feed terminal of 24 Volts of direct current through the fuses f1 and f2. From the foregoing it can be easily noted that a printed circuit card has been provided, which is based on a programmable logic of new design and very reliable. The construction and the high noise immunity of this card make it particularly suitable in all the industrial environments which are adverse to other electronic logics.Since this card is fully static in nature and the switching times can be changed, it cannot be damaged by any electrical noise. Another advantage is the simplicity of programming Boolean algebra . While the invention has been shown and described iri connection to an embodiment only, it is apparent that those skilled in the art can make thereto various c1wanges arid modifications without departing from the scope of the invention. In particular the memory is not limited to the EPRO.N1 type, but all types of electronic memories can be employed such as programmable read only memory PROM , rea d only memory ROM , electrically erasable promrammable read only memory EEPROM .Also the circuit components are not intended in limiting sense because all the equivalents within the scope of the invention can be used.