# 2 Oxo 1 aminocarbonylaminosulfonylaminocarbonyl azetidines.

## Abstract
Antibacterial activity is exhibited by compounds having the formula

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A compound having the formulaEMI82.1 or a salt thereof, wherein R1 is acyl R2 is hydrogen or methoxy R3 and R4 are the same or different and each is hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, aryl or a 5,6 or 7 membered heterocycle or one of R3 and R4 is hydrogen and they other is azido, halomethyl, dihalomethyl trihalomethyl, alkoxycarbonyl, 2 phenylethenyl, 2 phenylethynyl, carboxyl, CH2X1, S X2,EMI82.2 X1 is azido, amino, hydroxy, alkanoylamino, alkylsulfonyloxy, arylsulfonyloxy, aryl, cyano, S X2 or O X2 X2 is alkyl, substituted alkyl, aryl, arylalkyl, alkanoyl, substituted alkanoyl, arylcarbonyl or heteroarylcarbonyl one of X3 and X4 is hydrogen and the other is hydrogen or alkyl, or X3 and X4 when taken together with the carbon atom to which they are attached form a cycloalkyl group ..X5 is formyl, alkanoyl, arylcarbonyl, arylalkylcarbonyl, carboxyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, substitued amino carbonyl, or cyano A is CH CH , CH2 CH CH , CH2 m CH2 m O , CH2 m NH , CH2 m, S CH2 , or CH2 m O CH2 m is 0, 1, 2 or 3 m1 is 1 or 2 X6 and X7 are the same or different and each is hydrogen or alkyl, or X6 is hydrogen and X7 is amino, substituted amino, acylamino or alkoxy . R5 is hydrogen, alkyl or aryl R6 is hydrogen, alkyl, aryl, a 5,6 or 7 membered heterocycle, NR7R8, or CH2 n X wherein n is 1,2,3 or 4 and X is halogen, aryl, alkoxy, aryloxy or NR9R10 R7 and R8 are the same or different and each is hydrogen, alkyl or aryl, or R7 is hydrogen and R8 is a 5,6 or 7 membered heterocycle or CH2 n Y wherein n is 1,2,3 or 4 and Y is alkoxy, amino, alkylthio or halogen and Rg and R10 are the same or different and each is hydrogen or alkyl, or Rg is hydrogen and R10 is a 5,6 or 7 membered heterocycle. 2 A compound havinq the formulaEMI84.1 wherein R2, R3, R4, R5 and R6 are defined in claim 1 and A1 NH is a protected amino group or A1 is hydrogen. 3. A catd in accordance with claims and 2. wherein R2 is hydrogen. 4.. A compound in accordance with claims 1 and 2 wherein R5 is hydrogen. 5 A compound in accordance with claims 1 and 2 wherein R3 and R4 are each hydrogen. 6 A compound in accordance with claims 1 and 2. wherein R2, R3, R4 and R5 are each hydrogen. 7 . A compound in accordance with claim 6 wherein R6 is hydrogen. 8.. A compound in accordance with claim 6 wherein R6 is alkyl. 9 . A compound in accordance with claim 6 wherein R6 is aryl. 10.A compound in accordance wiht claim 6 wherein R6 is a.5,6 or 7 membered heterocycle. 11. A compound in accordance with claim 6 wherein R6 is 4 alkyl 2,3 dioxo 1 piperazinyl. 12. A coocound in accordance with claim 6 wherein R6 is 2 oxo 1 imidazolidinyl 13 A compound in accordance with claim 6 wherein R6 is 3 alkyl 2 oxo l imidazolidinyl. 14. A compound in accordance with claim 6 wherein R6 is 3 substituted alkyl 2 oxo limidazolidinyl. 15. A compound in accordance with claim 14 wherein R6 is 3 2 aminoethyl 2 oxo l imidazolidinyl. lÏ. A cmnd in accordance with claim 8 wherein R1 is Z 2 amino alpha alkoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetyl. 17.A compound in a accordance with claim 16 wherein R1 Z 2 amino alpha methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetyl. 18. A compound in accordance with claim 16 wherein R1 is Z 2 amino a F l carb9xy l methylethoxy imino 4 thiazoleacetyl19. 3S Z 2 1 2 amino 4 thiazolyl 2 1 3 ethyl 2 oxo 1 imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methyl propanoic acid, or a salt thereof. 20. 3S Z 2 1 2 amino 4 thiazolyl 2 1 3 ethyl 2 oxo 1 imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid, dipotassium salt. 21.. 3S Z 2 2 1 F 3 2 aminoethyl 2 oxo 1 imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 1 2 amino 4 thiazolyl 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid, or a salt thereof. 22. 3S Z 2 2 1 3 2 aminoethyl 2 oxo 1 imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 1 2 amino 4 thiazolyl 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid, dipotassium salt. 23. 3S Z 2 2 1 3 methyl 2 oxo 1imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 1 2 amino 4thia zolyl 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methyl propanoic acid, or a salt thereof. 24. 3S Z 2 2 1 3 methyl 2 oxo 1 imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 1 2 amino 4thiazolyl 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid, dipotassium salt. 25. 3S Z 2 2 1 2 oxo 1 imidazolidiyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3azetidinyl amino 1 2 amino 4 thiazolyl 2oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid, or a salt thereof. 26. 3S Z 2 2 1 2 oxo 1 imidazolidiyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3azetidinyl amino 1 2 amino 4 thiazolyl 2oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid, dipotassium salt. 27. A compound in accordance with claims 1 to 26 for use in treating bacterial infections. 28. Pharmaceutical compositions comprising at least one compound in accordance with claim 1 and usual carriers, additives and adjuvants. 29. A process for preparing a compound having the formulaEMI87.1 or a salt thereof, wherein R1 is acyl R2 i.s hydrogen or methoxy R3 and R4 are the same or different and each is hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, aryl or a 5,6 or 7 membered heterocycle or one of R3 and R4 is hydrogen and the other is azido, halomethyl, dihalomethyl, trihalomethyl, alkoxycarbonyl, 2 phenylethenyl, 2 phenylethynyl, carboxyl, CH2X1, S X2,EMI87.2 X1 is azido, amino, hydroxy, alkanoylamino, alkylsulfonyloxy, arylsulfonyloxy, aryl, cyano, S X2 or O X2 X2 is alkyl, substituted alkyl, aryl, arylalkyl, alkanoyl, substituted alkanoyl, arylcarbonyl or heteroarylcarbonyl one of X3 and X4 is hydrogen and the other is hydrogen or alkyl, or X3 and X4 when taken together with the carbon atom to which they are attached form a cycloalkyl group X5 is formyl, alkanoyl, arylcarbonyl, arylalkylcarbonyl, carboxyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, substitued amino carbonyl, or cyano A is CH CH , CH CH CH , CH2 m CH2 m O , CH2 m, NH , CH2 m, S CH2 , or CH2 m O CH2 m is 0, 1, 2 or 3 m is 1 or 2 X6 and X7 are the same or different and each is hydrogen or alkyl, or X6 is hydrogen and X7. is amino, substituted amino, acylamino or alkoxy R5 is hydrogen, alkyl or aryl R6 is hydrogen, alkyl, aryl, a 5,6 or 7 membered heterocycle, NR7R8, or CH2 n X wherein n is 1,2,3 or 4 and X is halogen, aryl, alkoxy, aryloxy or NR9R10 R7 and R are the same or different and 8 each is hydrogen, alkyl or aryl, or R7 is hydrogen and R8 is a 5,6 or 7 membered heterocycle or CH2 n Y wherein n is 1,2,3 or 4 and Y is alkoxy, amino, alkylthio or halogen and R9 and R10 are the same or different and each is hydrogen or alkyl, or Rg is hydrogen and R10 is a 5,6 or 7 membered heterocycle, which comprises reacting a ss lactam having the formulaEMI88.1 wherein R2, R3 and R4 are as previously defined and Ri is acyl CR1 as previously defined or the group R NH is a protected amino group with an isocyanate having the formulaEMI88.2 or sequential segments thereof wherein R5 and R6 are as previously defined, and where R NH is a protected amino group removing said protecting group and acylating with the appropriate acylating group to form the desired product. 30. A process for preparing a compound of the formulaEMI89.1 wherein R2, R3, R4, R5 and R6 are as defined in claim 1 and A1 NH is a protected amino group or A1 is hydrogen characterized by reacting a compound of the formulaEMI89.2 wherein the group A1 NH is a protected amino group with an isocyanate having the formulaEMI89.3 or sequential segments thereof to form a product wherein A1 NH is a protected amino group and removing said protecting group to form a product wherein A1 is hydrogen.

## Description
2 OXO 1 AMINOCARBONYLAMINOSULFONYLAMINOCARBONYL AZETIDINEE 6 Lactams having the formulaEMI1.1 and salts thereof, have antibacterial activity.In formula I, and throughout the specification, the symbols are as defined below. R1 is acyl R2 is hydrogen or methoxy R3 and R4 are the same or different and each is hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, aryl or a 5,6 or 7 membered heterocycle or one of R3 and R4 is hydrogen and the other is azido, halomethyl, dihalomethyl, trihalomethyl, alkoxycarbonyl, 2 phenylethenyl, 2 phenylethynyl, carboxyl, CH2X1, S X2, EMI2.1 X1 is azido, amino NH2 , hydroxy, alkanoylamino, alkylsulfonyloxy, arylsulfonyloxy, aryl, cyano, S X2 or O X X2 is alkyl, substituted alkyl, aryl, arylalkyl, alkanoyl, substituted alkanoyl, arylcarbonyl or heteroarylcarbonyl one of X3 and X4 is hydrogen and the other is hydrogen or alkyl, or X3 and X4 when taken together with the carbon atom to which they are attached form a cycloalkyl group X5 is formyl, alkanoyl, arylcarbonyl, arylalkylcarbonyl, carboxyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonylEMI2.2 substitued amino carbonyl, or cyano C N A is CH CH , CH2 CH CH , cH2 , CH2 m, O , CH2 m, NH , CH2 m, S CH2 , or CH2 m, O CH2 m is 0, 1, 2 or 3 m is 1 or 2 X6 and X7 are the same or different and each is hydrogen or alkyl, or X6 is hydrogen and X7 is amino, substituted amino, acylamino or alkoxy R5 is hydrogen, alkyl or aryl R6is hydrogen, alkyl, aryl, a 5, 6 or 7 membered heterocycle, NR7R8, or CH2 n X wherein n is 1,2,3 or 4 and X is halogen, aryl, alkoxy, aryloxy or NR9R10 R7 and R8 are the same or different and each is hydrogen, alkyl or aryl, or R7 is hydrogen and R8 is a 5,6 or 7 membered heterocycle or CH2 n Y wherein n is 1,2,3 or 4 and Y is alkoxy, amino NH2 , alkylthio or halogen and Rg and R10 are the same or different and each is hydrogen or alkyl, or R9 is hydrogen and R10 is a 5,6 or 7 membered heterocycle. Listed below are definitions of various terms used to describe the ss lactams of this invention. These definitions apply to the terms as they are used throughout the specification unless they are otherwise defined in specific instances either individually or as part of a larger group. The terms alkyl and alkoxy refer to both straight and branched chain groups. Those groups having 1 to 10 carbon atoms are preferred. The terms cycloalkyl and cycloalkenyl refer to cycloalkyl and cycloalkenyl groups having 3,4,5,6 or 7 carbon atoms. The terms alkanoyl , alkenyl111 alkynyl , alken l yl and alkyn l yl refer to both straight and branched chain groups. Those groups having 2 to 10 carbon atoms are preferred. The term halogen refers to fluorine, chlorine, bromine and iodine. The term protected carboxyl refers to a carboxyl group which has been esterified with a conventional acid protecting group. These groups are well known in the art see, for example, United States patent 4,144,333 , issued March 13, 1979. The preferred protected carboxyl groups are benzyl, benzhydryl, t butyl, and p nitrobenzyl esters. The term aryl refers to phenyl and phenyl substituted with 1,2 or 3 amino NH2 , halogen, hydroxyl, trifluoromethyl, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms , alkoxy of 1 to 4 carbon atoms or carboxyl groups. The expression a 5, 6 or 7 membered heterocycle refers to substituted and unsubstituted, aromatic and non aromatic groups containing one or more nitrogen, oxygen or sulfur atoms. Exemplary substituents are oxon 0 , halogen, hydroxy, nitro, amino, cyano, trifluoromethyl, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbons, alkoxy of 1 to 4 carbons, alkylsulfonyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, 2 fur.ylmethyleneimino EMI4.1 phenylmethyleneimino and substituted alkyl groups wherein the alkyl group has 1 to 4 carbons .One type of 5,6 or 7 membered heterocyclen is the heteroaryl group. The term sheteroaryl refers to those 5,6 or 7 membered heterocycles which are aromatic. Exemplary heteroaryl groups are substituted and unsubstituted pyridinyl, furanyl, pyrrolyl, thienyl, 1,2,3 triazolyl, 1,2,4 triazolyl, imidazolyl, thiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, pyrimidinyl, oxazolyl, triazinyl, and tetrazolyl.Exemplary nonaromatic heterocycles i.e., fully or partially saturated heterocyclic groups are substituted and unsubstituted piperidinyl, piperazinyl, imidazolidinyl, oxazolidinyl, pyrrolidinyl, tetrahydropyriinidinyl, and dihydrothiazolyl. Exemplary of the substituted 5, 6 or 7 membered heterocycles are 2 oxo l imidazolidinyl, 3 alkylsulfonyl 2 oxo l imidazolidinl, 3 benzyl imino 2 oxo 1 imidazolidinyl, 3 alkyl 2 oxo limidazolidinyl, 3 aryl 2 oxo l imidazolidinyl, 3 2 hydroxyethyl 2 oxo l imidazolidinyl, 3 L 1 methylethylidene amino 2 oxo 1 imidazolidinyl, 3 benzyl 2 oxo l imidazolidinyl, 3 2 aminoethyl 2oxo l imidazolidinyl, 3 12 alkylamino ethyll 2 oxo l imidazolidinyl, 3 2 dialkylamino ethyll 2 oxo l imidazolidinyl, 3 amino 2 oxo l imidazolidinyl, 3 ureido 2 oxo l imidazolidinyl, 3 l alkoxycarbonyl aminoj 2 oxo l imidazolidinyl, 3 t2 I alkoxycarbonyl amino ethyl 2 oxo l irnidazolidinyl, 2 oxo l pyrrolidinyl,. 2 oxo 3 oxazolidinyl, 4 hydroxy 6methyl 2 pyrimidinyl, 2 oxo 3 pyrroldinyl, 2 oxo 3 tetrahydrofuranyl, 2, 3 dioxo l piperazinyl, 2,5 dioxo l piperazinyl, 4 alkyl 2,3 dioxo 1 piperazinyl, and 4 phenyl 2,3 dioxo 1 piperazinyl. The term substituted alkyl refers to alkyl groups substituted with.one, or more, azido, amino NH2 , halogen, hydroxy, carboxy, cyano, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, alkanoyloxy, alkoxy, aryloxy, a 5,6 or 7 membered heterocycleoxy, mercapto, alkylthio, arylthio, alkylsulfinyl, or alkylsulfonyl groups. The term substituted amino refers to a group having the formula NY1Y2 wherein Y1 is hydrogen, alkyl, aryl, or arylalkyl, and Y2 is alkyl, aryl, arylalkyl, hydroxy, cyano, alkoxy, phenylalkoxy, or amino NH2 . The term substituted alkanoyl includes within its scope compounds having the formula substituted alkyl EMI5.1 wherein substituted alkyl is defined above and phenylalkanoyl. The term acyl refers to all organic radicals derived from an organic acid i.e., a carboxylic acid by removal of the hydroxyl group. Certain acyl groups are, or course, preferred but this preference should not be viewed as a limitation of the scope of this invention. Exemplary acyl groups are those acyl groups which have been used in the past to acylate S lactam antibiotics including 6 aminopenicillanic acid and derivatives and 7 aminocephalosporanic acid and derivatives see, for example, Cephalosporins and Penicillins, edited by Flynn,.Academic Press 1972 , GermanOffenlegungsschrift 2,716,677, publishedOctober 10, 1978, Belgian patent 867,994, published December 11, 1978, United States patent 4,152,432, issued May 1, 1979, UnitedStates patent 3,971,778, issued July 27, 1976,United States patent 4,172,199, issued October 23, 1979, and .British patent 1,348,894, publishedMarch 27, 1974. The portions of these references describing various acyl groups are incorporated herein by reference. The following list of acyl groups is presented to further exemplify the term acyl it should not be regarded as limiting that term.Exemplary acyl groups are a Aliphatic groups having the formulaEMI6.1 wherein Ra is alkyl cycloalkyl alkoxy alkenyl cycloalkenyl cyclohexadienyl or alkyl or alkenyl substituted with one or more halogen, cyano, nitro, amino, mercapto, alkylthio, or cyanomethylthio groups. b Carbocyclic aromatic groups having the formulaEMI7.1 EMI8.1 wherein n is 0, 1, 2 or 3 R Rc, and Rd each is independently hydrogen, halogen, hydroxyl, nitro, amino, cyano, trifluoromethyl, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, alkoxy of 1 to 4 carbon atoms or aminomethyl and Re is amino, hydroxyl, a carboxyl salt, protected carboxyl, formyloxy, a sulfo salt, a sulfoamino salt, azido, halogen, hydrazino, alkylhydrazino, phenylhydrazino, or alkylthio thioxomethyl thio. Preferred carbocyclic aromatic acyl groups include those having the formulaEMI8.2 EMI9.1 Re is preferably a carboxyl salt or sulfo salt andEMI9.2 Re is preferably a carboxyl salt or sulfo salt . c Beteroaromatic groups having the formulaEMI9.3 wherein n is 0, 1, 2 or 3 Re is as defined above and Rf is a substituted or unsubstituted 5 , 6 or 7 membered heterocyclic ring containing 1,2,3 or 4 preferably 1 or 2 nitrogen, oxygen and sulfur atoms. Exemplary heterocyclic rings are thienyl, furyl, pyrrolyl, pyridinyl, pyrazolyl, pyrazinyl, thiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, pyrimidinyl and tetrazolyl. Exemplary substituents are halogen, hydroxyl, nitro, amino, cyano, trifluorarnethyl, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, alkoxy of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, orEMI10.1 Preferred heteroaromatic acyl groups include those groups of the above formulas wherein Rf is 2 amino 4 thiazolyl, 2 amino 5 halo 4 thiazolyl, 4 aminopyrimidin 2 y1, 5 amino 1,2,4 thiadiazol 3 yl, 2 thienyl, 2 furanyl, or 6 aminopyridin 2 yl. d 4 Substituted 2,3 dioxo l piper azinyl carbonyl amino arylacetyl groups having the formulaEMI10.2 wherein R is an aromatic group including g carbocyclic aromatic such as those of the formulaEMI10.3 and heteroaromatics as included within the definition of Rf and Rh is alkyl, substituted alkyl wherein the alkyl group is substituted with one or more halogen, cyano, nitro, amino or mercapto groups , arylmethyleneamino i e., N CH Rg wherein Rg is as defined above , arylcarbonylamino i.e.,EMI11.1 wherein R g is as defined above or alkylcarbonylamino. Preferred I 4 substituted 2,3 dioxo l piperazinyl carbonyl amino arylacetyl groups include those wherein Rh is ethyl, phenylmethyleneamino or 2 furylmethyleneamino. e Substituted oxyimino arylacetyl groups having the formulaEMI11.2 wherein Rg is as defined above and R. is hydrogen, alkyl, cycloalkyl, alkylaminocarbonyl, arylaminocarbonyl i.e., EMI11.3 wherein Rg is as defined above or substituted alkyl wherein the alkyl group is substituted with 1 or more halogen, cyano, nitro, amino, mercapto, alkylthio, aromatic group as defined by R , carboxyl g including salts thereof , amido, alkoxycarbonyl, phenylmethoxycarbonyl, diphenylmethoxycarbonyl, hydroxyalkoxyphosphinyl, dihydroxyphosphinyl, hydroxy phenylmethoxy phosphinyl, or dialkoxyphosphinyl substituents . Preferred substituted oxyimino arylacetyl groups include those wherein R is 2 amino 4 g thiazolyl. Also preferred are those groups wherein R. is methyl, ethyl, carboxymethyl, l carboxy l methylethyl or 2,2, 2 trifluoroethyl. f Acylamino arylacetyl groups having the formulaEMI12.1 wherein Rg is as defined above and Rj isEMI12.2 amino, alkylamino, cyanoalkyl amino, amino, alkylamido, cyanoalkyl amido,EMI12.3 Preferred acylamino arylacetyl groups of the above formula include those groups wherein R. is amino or amido. Also preferred are 3 those groups wherein R is phenyl or 2 thienyl. g g t 3 Substituted 2 oxo l imidazoli dinyl carbonyl amino arylacetyl groups having the formulaEMI13.1 wherein R is as defined above and RZC is hydrogen, alkylsulfonyl, arylmethyleneamino i.e., N CH Rg wherein Rg is as defined above EMI13.2 wherein Rg is hydrogen, alkyl or halogen substituted alkyl , aromatic group as defined by Rg above , alkyl or substituted alkyl wherein the alkyl group is substituted with one or more halogen, cyano, nitro, amino or mercapto groups . Preferred 3 substituted 2 oxo 1 imidazoli dinyl carbonyl amino arylacetyl groups of the above formula include those wherein Rg is phenyl or 2 thienyl. Also preferred are those groups wherein Rk is hydrogen, methylsulfonyl, phenylmethyleneamino or 2 furylmethyleneamino. The compounds of this invention form basic salts with various inorganic and organic bases which are also within the scope of.this invention.Such salts include ammonium salts, alkali metal salts, alkaline earth metal salts, salts with organic bases, e.g., dicyclohexylamine, benzathine, N methyl D glucamine, hydrabamine and the like. The pharmaceutically acceptable salts are preferred, although other salts are also useful, e.g., in isolating or purifying the product. Some of the compounds of this invention may be crystallized or recrystallized from solvents containing water. In these cases water of hydration may be formed. This invention contemplates stoichiometric hydrates as well as compounds containing variable amounts of water that may be produced by processes such as lyophilization. S Lactams having aEMI14.1 substituent in the l position and an acylamino substituent in the 3 position contain at least one chiral center the carbon atom in the 3 position of the ss lactam nucleus to which the acylamino substituent is attached. This invention is directed to those B lactams which have been described above, wherein the stereochemistry at the chiral center in the 3 position of the ss lactam nucleus is the same as the configuration at the carbon atom in the 6 position of naturally occurring penicillins e.g., penicillin G and as the configuration at the carbon atom in the 7 position of naturally occurring cephamycins e.g., cephamycin C . Also included within the scope of this invention are racemic mixtures which contain the above described B lactams. B Lactams having aEMI15.1 substituent in the l position of the ss lactam nucleus and an acylamino substituent in the 3 position of the B lactam nucleus, and salts thereof, have activity against a range of gram negative and gram positive organisms. The compounds of this invention can be used as agents to combat bacterial infections including urinary tract infections and respiratory infections iii mammalian species, such as domesticated animals e.g., dogs, cats, cows, horses, and the like and humans. For combating bacterial infections in mammals a compound of this invention can be administered to a mammal in need thereof in an amount of about 1.4 mg kg dayto about 350 mg kg day, preferably about 14 mg kg day to about 100 mg kg day. All modes of administration which have been used in the past to deliver penicillins and cephalosporins to the site of the infection are also contemplated for use with the novel family of B lactams of this invention. Such methods of administration include oral, intravenous, intramuscular, and as a suppository.EMI16.1 activating group can be introduced onto the nitrogen atom of a ss lactam by reacting a ss lactam having the formulaEMI16.2 wherein A1 is a nitrogen protecting group, with the appropriate isocyanate having the formulaEMI16.3 As the protective group A1 for amino above, any of those used for this purpose in the field of ss lactam or peptide synthesis may conveniently be employed.Examples of such amino protecting group include aromatic acyl groups such as phthaloyl, p nitrobenzoyl, p tert butylbenzoyl, p tertbutylbenzenesulfonyl, benzensulfonyl, toluenesulfonyl, etc., aliphatic acyl groups such as formyl, acetyl, propionyl, monochloroacetyl, dichloroacetyl, trichloroacetyl, methanesulfonyl, ethanesulfonyl, trifluoroacetyl, maleyl, succinyl, etc., and esterified carboxyl groups such as methoxycarbonyl, ethoxycarbonyl, t butoxycarbonyl, isopropoxy carbonyl, 2 cyanoethoxycarbonyl, , , ss,ss,ss trichloro ethoxycarbonyl, ss trimethylsilylethoxycarbonyl, B methylsulfonylethoxycarbonyl, benzyloxycarbonyl, p nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl, p methoxybenzyloxycarbonyl, di phenylmethyloxycarbonyl, methoxymethyloxycarbonyl, acetylmethyloxycarbonyl, isobornyloxycarbonyl, phenyloxycarbonyl, etc., as well as nonacyl amino protecting groups such as trityl, 2 nitrophenylthio, benzylidene, 4 nitrobenzylidene, trialkylsilyl, benzyl, p nitrobenzyl, proton, etc.The choice of amino protecting group is not critical in the present invention. The reaction is preferably run in an organic solvent.,.e.g., an inert solvent such as tetrahydrofuran or dimethoxyethane, in the presence of a base such as triethylamine or alkyl lithium. The activating group can also be inserted onto the Formula II lactam in sequential segments.Thus for example, with reference to the activating group as represented below EMI17.1 there are various methods known in the art by which the sequential portions a , b and c above can be added to the Formula II ss lactam in single or double bond portions or all together. One such method, which is preferred omPrises first reactina a ss lactam of formula II with an isocyanate having the formula IV O C N SO2 Z wherein. Z is a leaving group, e.g., a halogen such as chlorine. The reaction is preferably run in an inert organic solvent, e.g., a halocarbon such as dichloromethane, or in acetonitrile, and yields an intermediate having the formulaEMI18.1 Reaction of an intermediate of formula V with a R5NH2 amine preferably in the form of a silylated derivative such as with a silyl compound having the formula VI EMI18.2 yields an intermediate having the formulaEMI18.3 which can be reacted with an acyl halide having the formulaEMI19.1 to yield a ss lactam having the formulaEMI19.2 Alternatively, compounds of formulas VI and VIII can be first reacted to yield a compound having the formulaEMI19.3 which can be reacted with a compound of formulaV to yield a compound of formula IX. Still another procedure for preparing a compound of formula IX wherein R6 is NR7R8, comprises reacting a compound of formula V with a urea having the formulaEMI19.4 in the presence of triethylamine. Deprotection of a compound of formula IX using conventional techniques yields the corresponding key intermediate having the formulaEMI20.1 or a salt thereof. The particular deprotection reaction used will, of course, depend on the protecting group A1 present. If, for example, A1 is a t butoxycarbonyl protecting group, deprotection can be accomplished by treatment of a compound of formula IX with acid e.g., formic acid or trifluoroacetic acid . If, for example, A1 is a benzyloxycarbonyl protesting group, deprotection can be accomplished by catalytic hydrogenation of a compound of formula IX. Well known acylation techniques can be used to convert an intermediate of formula XII to a corresponding product of formula I. It is also evident that the desired acyl group in the Formula I product can also function as the protecting group for the amino group SH2 in the Formula XII compound above, or as the A1 group in the Formula II reactant shown previously where A1 is defined as a nitrogen protecting group.In such cases, there will be no need for removing the A1 protecting group after insertion of theEMI20.2 activating group. Exemplary techniques include reaction of a compound of formula XII with a carboxylic acid R1 OH , or corresponding carboxylic acid halide or carboxylic acid anhydride. The reaction with a carboxylic acid proceeds most readily in the presence of a carbodiimide such as dicyclohexylcarbodiimide and a substance capable of forming an active ester in situ such asN hydroxybenzotriazole. In those instances where the acyl group R1 contains reactive functionality such as amino or carboxyl groups it may be necessary to first protect those functional groups, then carry out the acylation reaction, and finally deprotect the resulting product. In general terms, the process for preparing the desired compounds therefore comprises reacting a ss lactam having the formulaEMI21.1 wherein R2 R3 and Rd are as previously defined and Ri is acyl R1 as previously defined or the group R NH is a protected amino group with an isocyanate having the formulaEMI21.2 or sequential segments thereof wherein R and R6 are as previously defined, and where Ri NH is a protected amino group removing said protecting group and acylating with the appropriate acylating group to form the desired product. The azetidinones of formula II can be prepared utilizing the procedures described inUnited Kingdom patent application 2,071,650, published September 23, 1981. The preferred compounds of formula I are those wherein R3 and R4 are each hydrogen.Also preferred are those compounds of formula I wherein R6 is a 5,6 or 7 membered heterocycle, especially a 4 alkyl 2,3 dioxo 1 piperazinyl group, a 2 oxoA imida zolid inyl group, a 3 alkyl 2 oxo 1 imidazolidinyl group or a 3 substituted alkyl 2 oxo 1 imidazolidinyl group. Specific groups that are preferred are the 4 ethyl 2,3 dioxo l piperazinyl, 3 ethyl 2oxo l imidazolidinyl, and 3 2 aminoethyl 2oxo l imidazolidinyl groups.Preferred 3 acylamino groups are those wherein the acyl portion of the group is Z 2 amino a alkoxy imino 4 thiazoleacetyl or Z 2 amino substituted alkyl oxy imino 4 thiazoleacetyl, especially Z 2 amino alpha methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetyl and Z 2 amino a l carboxy l methylethoxy imino 4 thiazoleacetyl. The following examples are specific embodiments of this invention. Example 1 3S Z N 1 I Acetylamino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl 2 amino alpha methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetamide, dipotassium salt A S l Acetylamino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt S 3 Phenylmethoxy carbonyl aminoj 2 azetidinone 4.4 g was suspended in dry ethyl acetate. The mixture was cooled to 5 C and 3.1 g of chlorosulfonyl isocyanate was dropped in with stirring at such a rate that the temperature did not exceed OOC Stirring at OOC was continued for an additional 20 minutes. After this time 4 g of hexamethyldisilazane was added and the solution was stirred at ambient temperature for 12 hours.Acetyl chloride 3.2 g was added and the solution was again stirred for 48 hours.The ethyl acetate was then washed with water and extracted twice with 50 ml portions of saturated aqueous bicarbonate. The organic layer was discarded and the aqueous phase was treated with 25 hydrochloric acid until the pH was 1.0. Extraction with ethyl acetate, drying and evaporation of the solvent yielded 4 g of the title compound in crude form.This was dissolved in acetone water 1 1 , the pH was adjusted to 6.5, the solvent was removed in vacuo and the crystalline title compound was filtered off with ether. Further purification achieved by HP 20 chromatography water acetone 9 1 as elvent yielded the title compound, melting point 130 135 C, dec.B 3S N 1 Acetylamino sulfonyl aminoj carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl3 2 amino alpha methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetamide, dipotassium salt S 1 Acetylamino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 940 mg was dissolved in 50 ml of dry dimethylformamide and hydrogenated in the presence of 500 mg of 10 palladium on charcoal for 30 minutes, after which the catalyst was filtered off. Z 2 Amino alpha methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetic acid 450 mg , 1 g of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide and 150 mg of N hydroxybenzotriazole were added to the filtrate. The solution was stirred overnight, the precipitated urea was filtered off and the solvent was removed in vacuo. The remaining solid was chromatographed on HP 20 using water as eluent, and yielded 400 mg of product, melting point 255 260 C, dec. The terms HP 20 and HP 20 resin refer to macroporous styrene divinylbenzene copolymer. Example 2 3S Z 2 2 1 Acetylamino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2 amino 4 thiazolyl 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acidA 2 2 1 Acetylamino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 1 2 amino4 thiazolyl 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2methylpropanoic acid, diphenylmethyl ester, monopotassium salt S 1 f Acetylamino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 1.38 g see example 1A was hydrogenated in dry dimethylformamide in the presence of 700 mg of 10 palladium on charcoal for 30 minutes after which the catalyst was filtered off. Z 2 Amino alpha 2 diphenylmethoxy 1,1dimethyl 2 oxoethoxy imino 4 thiazoleacetic acid 1.32 g , 1.2 g of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide and 150 mg of N hydroxybenzotriazole were added and the solution was stirred for 12 hours. The precipitated urea was filtered off and the solvent was removed in vacuo.The residue was dissolved in 20 ml of acetone, filtered and poured into 100 ml of ether.The precipitated title compound was filtered off and dried yielding 2.5 g of material. B 13S Z 1 2 Ij 2 111 I I Acetylamino sulfo amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 1 2 amino 4 thiazolyl 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid 2 2 1 Acetylamino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 1 2 amino 4 thiazolyl 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2methylpropanoic acid, diphenylmethyl ester, monopotassium salt 2.5 g was suspended in 5 ml of anisole and cooled to OOC. Trifluoroacetic acid 12 ml was slowly dropped in with stirring, maintaining the temperature at OOC. After 3.5 hours, the solution was poured into 100 ml of ether, precipitating the desired product. The crude product was filtered off and purified by HP 20 chromatography using water acetone 9 1 as eluent and yielding 620 mg of product, melting point 225 230 C, dec. Example 3 1 Chloroacetyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl 1 carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester S 3 Phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 2azetidinone 4.4 g was suspended in 150 ml of dry ethyl acetate. The mixture was cooled to 50 C and 3.3 g of chlorosulfonyl isocyanate was added with stirring stirring was continued without cooling until the temperature reached OOC. N Trimethylsilyl chloroacetamide 6.0 g was added and the solution was stirred overnight. The insoluble material was filtered off and the filtrate washed with water. The organic layer was extracted twice with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate. The alkaline aqueous layer was acidified to pH 1 with 20 hydrochloric acid and extracted twice with 150 ml portions of ethyl acetate. The organic layers were combined, dried and evaporated to dryness. The oily residue was dissolved in 50 ml of acetone and the pH was adjusted to 6.5 by addition of 1N potassium hydroxide. The solvent was removed in vacuo and the crystalline residue filtered with ether, yielding 3.9 g of the title compound. Example 4 3S R N 2 1 r r Acetylamino sulfonyl amino carbonsl3 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2 oxo l phenyethyll 4 ethyl 2,3 dioxo l piperazinecarboxamide, potassium salt Following the procedure of example 1B, but substituting R a 4 ethyl 2, 3 dioxo 1 piperazinyl carbonyl amino benzeneacetic acid for Z 2 amino a methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetic acid, yielded the title compound.melting point 160 1650C, dec. Example 5 3S Z 2 Amino N 1 chloroacetyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl a methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetamide, potassium salt 1 Chloroacetyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinylcarbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester 1.0 g see example 3 was slowly added to 20 ml of 40 HBr in acetic acid at 10 0C. When the addition was complete the solution was stirred for 5 minutes. Dry diethyl ether 100 ml was added and the precipitate was filtered off, washed with ether and dried carefully. This compound was dissolved in 50 ml of water, the pH adjusted to 6.5 with 1N KOH and the resulting solution freeze dried.The compound obtained was dissolved in 50 ml of dry dimethylformamide and Z 2 amino alpha methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetic acid, 0.04 g of N hydroxybenzotriazole and 0.76 g dicyclohexylcarbodiimide are added and the solution was stirred overnight at ambient temperature. The precipitated urea was filtered off and the solvent removed in vacuo. The residue was chromatographed using HP 20 resin eluent water , yielding 0.19 g of product, melting point 215 2200C. Example 6 3S Z 2 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 1 chloroacetyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid, dipotassium salt Il II I Chloroacetyl amino sulfonyl ami carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester 2.0 g see example 3 was added at 5 C with stirring to 40 ml of 40 hydrogen bromide in acetic acid after 5 minutes a clear solution was obtained. Dry ether 200 ml was slowly dropped in and the precipitate was filtered off, washed with ether and dried carefully. The white powder was then dissolved in 50 ml of water and the pH adjusted to 6.5 and the solution freeze dried.The compound obtained was dissolved in 100 ml of dry dimethylformamide and 2.72 g of Z 2 amino a f2 diphenylmethoxy 1.1 dimethyl 2 oxoethoxy imino 4 thiazoleacetic acid, 0.08 g N hydroxybenzotriazole and 1.52 g of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide was added and the solution was stirred for 12 hours. The precipitate was filtered off and the solvent removed inacuo. The residue was stirred with 100 ml of dry ether and filtered. The compound was then suspended in 6 ml of anisole and cooled to 15 C. At this point 12 ml of trifluoroacetic acid was dropped in with stirring at such a rate, that the temperature did not exceed 100C. After completion of the addition, stirring was continued at 100C for 2 hours.Cold ether 200 ml was added and the precipitated compound was filtered off, washed with ether, dried and dissolved in 50 ml of acetone water 1 1 . The pH was adjusted to 6.5 with 1N KOH, the acetone removed in vacuo and the remaining aqueous solution freeze dried 2.25 g of crude title compound was obtained. Purification was achieved by HP 20 chromatography water eluent , yielding 0,5 g of product, melting point 220 225 C, dec. Example 7 3S Z 2 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 1 methoxyacetyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid, dipotassium saltA S 1 Methoxyacetyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylme thyl ester, monopotassium salt S 3 Phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 2azetidinone 4.4 g was suspended in 100 ml or dry ethyl acetate. The mixture was cooled to 30 C and 3.12 g of chlorosulfonylisocyanate was added with stirring. The cooling was stopped and when the temperature had reached 0 C a clear solution was obtained. After 30 minutes at 0 C 13.9 g of N trimethylsilyl methoxyacetamide were added and stirring was continued for 24 hours at ambient temperature.After this time the ethyl acetate solution was washed with water, dried and the solvent removed. The residue was dissolved in acetone water 9 1 and the pH was adjusted to 6.5 with 1N KOH. The acetone was removed in vacuo and the aqueous solution was freeze dried.B 3S Z 2 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 1 methoxyacetyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2 oxo ethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid, dipotassium salt S 1 Methoxyacetyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, monopotassium salt 0.43 g was dissolved in 50 ml of dry dimethylformamide. Palladium on charcoal 10 0.25 g was added and hydrogen was bubbled through for 30 minutes with stirring. The catalyst was filtered off and 0.42 g of Z 2 amino a tl2 diphenylmethoxy l , l dimethyl 2 oxoethoxy imino 4 thiazoleacetic acid, 0.01 g N hydroxybenzotriazole and 0.24 g of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide was added the solution was stirred at ambient temperature for 12 hours.The precipitate was filtered off and the solvent removed in vacuo.The residue was suspended in diethyl ether and the precipitate filtered off 0.76 g . This compound was suspended in 3 ml of anisole and cooled to 150C 6 ml of trifluoroaceticacid was slowly dropped in with stirring, so that the temperature did not exceed 100C. After the addition was complete, the temperature was maintained for 2 hours. Cold diethyl ether 100 ml was added and the precipitate was filtered off, dried and dissolved in water.The pH was adjusted to 6.5 by addition of 1N KOH and the solution was chromatographed on HP 20 resin, using water as eluent, yielding 200 mg of product, melting point 245 250 C, dec. Example 8 3S Z 2 Amino N 1 methoxyacetyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl a methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetamide, potassium salt S 1 Methoxyacetyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinylZcarbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, monopotassium salt 0.5 g see example 7A was hydrogenated in 30 ml of dry dimethylformamide in the presence of 0.25 g 10 palladium on charcoal for 30 minutes.The catalyst was filtered off and 0.22 g of z 2 amino a methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetic acid, 0.01 g of N hydroxybenzotriazole and 0.21 g of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide were added.The solution was stirred overnight, filtered and evaporated to dryness. The residue was chromatographed HP 20, water as eluent , yielding 0.12 g of product, melting point 170 17 50C, dec. Example 9 3S Z 2 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 1 benzoylamino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxol 2 methylpropanoic acid, dipotassium saltA S 1 Aminosulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyljcarbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt Method I S 2 Oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester 11 g was dissolved in a mixture of 200 ml of acetonitrile and 50 ml of dichioromethane. The mixture was cooled to 500C and a solution of chlorosulfonyl isocyanate 9 g in 25 ml of dichloromethane was added with stirring. After warming the mixture to 30 C a solution of 6 g of ammonia in 60 ml of acetonitrile was added slowly.The reaction temperature was raised to 10 C and finally to 0 50C. The reaction time was 3 hours. The ammonium salt of the title compound precipitated and was filtered by suction 20 g . The crude product was purified by HP 20 chromatography 0.075 0.150 ILT eluting with 2000 ml of water and water acetone 8 2 20 ml fractions were taken. The elution was monitored by thin layer chromatography. Prom fractions 142 154, 9.3 g of product was obtained by evaporation. The ammonium salt of the title compound was dissolved in 100 ml of water, layered with 200 ml of ethyl acetate and acidified. After separation and washing of the aqueous layer twice with ethyl acetate, the organic layer was washed with saturated sodium chloride solution, dried with anhydrous magnesium sulfate and evaporated to yield 8.1 g of the free acid of the title compound. Method II A mixture of S 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester 11 g in 175 ml of dichloromethane was cooled to 300C. While stirring, 7.7 g of chlorosulfonyl isocyanate in 75 ml dichloroinethane was added dropwise within 15 minutes. The temperature of the solution was allowed to rise to OOC over 30 minutes. Subsequently the clear solution was again cooled to 300C and 8.8 g of bis tri methylsilyl amine dissolved in 30 ml of dichloromethane, was dropped in, while passing dry nitrogen through the flask. After an hour the reaction temperature was allowed to rise to 15 C and was maintained for an additional 30 minutes.The solvent was distilled off in vacuo, and the residue was triturated with 400 ml of ether to give a solid 16.6 g which was washed with an additional 20 ml of ether.From the ethereal mother liquor there was obtained a second crop of 4.2 g of product. The crude material 18.0 g along with about 20 g of HP 20 resin was suspended in 30 ml of water and the mixture was chromatographed on an HP 20 column eluted with a 3 L of water b 2.5 L of water acetone 8 2 3 4 L of water acetone 7 3 d 6 L of water acetone 6 4 . Fraction d yielded 6.2 g of the title compound, melting point 150 152 C.B S Il f f Benzoylamino sulfonyl anino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt S 1 Aminosulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 2.3 g and 2.2 g of potassium carbonate were stirred in 50 ml of dry dimethylformamide with 5 g of benzoyl chlori.de and 0.6 g of dimethylaminopyridine overnight. The solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue was extracted at pH 1 aqueous solution with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was dried and evaporated to dryness. The residue was dissolved in water acetone 1 9 and the pH adjusted to 6.5 with 1N KOH. The acetone was removed in vacuo and the remaining aqueous solution freeze dried.Purification of the resulting white powder was achieved by HP 20 chromatography using water acetone 9 1 as eluent, and yielding 1.1 g of product melting point 96 990C, dec. C 3S Z 2 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 1 benzoylamino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino ox.y 2 methylpropanoic acid, dipotassium salt S 1 Benzoylamino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 0.5 g was hydrogenated in 100 ml of dry dimethylformamide in the presence of 0.25 g of 10 palladium on charcoal for 1 hour. The catalyst was filtered off and 0.46 g of Z 2 amino a f12 diphenyl methoxy l ,l dimethyl 2 oxoethoxy imino 4 thiazoleacetic acid, 0.01 g N hydroxybenzotriazole and 0.24 g of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide were added and the solution was stirred for 12 hours. The solvent was distilled off in vacuo and the residue was filtered off with 100 ml of ether and dried 0.92 g .This compound was suspended in 2 ml of anisole, cooled to 10 C and 4 ml trifluoroacetic acid was added with stirring. The temperature was maintained for 5 hours. After this time 100 ml of dry ether was added and the precipitated compound was filtered off, dissolved in 5 ml of water and the pH was adjusted to 6.5 with 1N KOH.The resulting aqueous solution was chromatographed on HP 20 resin eluting with water and yielded 0.24 g of product, melting point 225 23OOC, dec. Example 10 f3S R N 2 It I Benzoylamino sulfonslzamino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2 oxo 1phenylethyl 4 ethyl 2,3 dioxo 1 piperazine carboxamide, potassium salt S 1 Benzoylamino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinylcarbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 0.25 g see example 9B was hydrogenated as described in example 9C. R alpha 4 Ehyl 2,3 dioxo 1 piperazinyl cabonyl amino benzoneacetic acid 0.17 g , 0.01 gof N hydroxybenzotriazole and 0.13 g of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide were added to the resulting solution which was stirred overnight. The solvent was distilled off in vacuo and the residue chromatographed using HP 20 resin and water acetone 19 1 as eluent yielding 0.14 g of product, melting point 180 185 C, dec. Example 11 3S Z 2 Amino N 1 benzoylamino sulfonyl amino carboxyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl alpha methoxy imino 4 thiazleacetamide, potassium salt S 1 Benzoylamino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 0.25 g see example 9B was hydrogenated as described in example 9C. To the resulting solution 0.01 g of N hydroxybenzotriazole, 0.11 g of Z 2 amino a methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetic acid and 0.13 g of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide were added. After stirring overnight at room temperature, the solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue chromatographed using HP 20 resin and water acetone 19 1 as eluent, yielding 0.05 g of product, melting point 205 210 C. Example 12 s tl 1 I 1 Acetyl methylamino sulfonyl aminol carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester S 3 Phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 2azetidinone 2.2 g was suspended in 100 ml of anhydrous tetrahydrofuran and cooled to 500C with stirring. Chlorosulfonylisocyanate 1.56 g was added and the temperature was maintained at 0 C for 30 minutes. After this time 3.51 g of heptamethyl disilazane was added and stirring at room temperature was continued overnight. Acetyl chloride 3.14 g was added and the solution was stirred for an additional 48 hours. The solvent was removed in vacuo, and the residue dissolved in ethyl acetate and extracted twice with 50 ml portions of water.The aqueous layer was discarded and the ethyl acetate solution was dried with Na2 SO4 and evaporated to dryness The residue was dissolved in acetone water 9 1 , the pH adjusted to 6.5 with 1N KOH and the acetone removed in vacuo. The remaining aqueous solution was freeze dried.The resulting crude compound 1.9 g was purified by HP 20 chromatography, yielding 1.03 g of product. Example 13 3S S 2 Amino N 1 2 methylpropanoyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyla methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetamide potassium salt S 3 Phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 2azetidinone 2.2 g was suspended in 100 ml of dry ethyl acetate, cooled to 500C and 1.56 g chlorosulfonylisocyanate was added. After 30 minutes at 0 0C a clear solution was obtained and 4.78 g of N trimethylsilyl 2 methylpropionamide was added and stirring at ambient temperature was continued for 12 hours. The solution was washed with 100 ml of water, dried and evaporated to dryness. The residue was dissolved in water acetone 1 9 and the pH adjusted to 6.5 with IN KOH. Acetone was removed in vacuo and the remaining aqueous solution freeze dried,.yielding 0.28 g of compound. This compound was dissolved in 20 ml of dry dimethylformamide and hydrogenated with 0.1 g of 10 palladium on charcoal for 30 minutes. The catalyst was. filtered off and 0.1 g of Z 2 amino a methoxy imino 4 thizzoleacetic acid, 0.01 g of N hydroxybenzotriazole and 0.13 g of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide were added and the mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature. The solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue chromatographed onHP 20 resin eluting with H2O acetone 19 1 and yielding 50 mg of product, melting point 185 1900C, dec. Example 14 3S Z 2 Amino N J1 Ii Ii aminocarbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 aze tidinyl a methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetamide, potassium salt A S 1 Aminocabonyl amino sulfonylamino carboanyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt S 3 Phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 2azetidinone 13.2 g was suspended in 300 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran at 0 0C. Chlorosulfonylisocyanate 11.1 g dissolved in 80 ml of dry dichloromethane was dropped in with stirring. The temperature was maintained with cooling at 0 C for 30 minutes. Trimethylsilyl urea 10.5 g was added and stirring was continued at room temperature overnight. The solvent was removed in vacuo and 200 ml of methanol was added The solution was stirred for 30 minutes, the solvent evaporated and the residue treated with 200 ml of ethyl acetate and 100 ml of water. The organic layer was separated, dried and filtered. After removal of the solvent, the oily residue was dissolved in 100 ml of acetone and 10 ml of water, and the pH was adjusted to 6.5 by addition of 1N potassium hydroxide. After evaporation of the solvent, the title compound remained. Yield 11.0 g melting point 120 1250C,dec. B 3S Z 2 Amino N 1 aminocarbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl alpha methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetamide, potassium salt s Il III Aminocarbonyl amino3sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 aazetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 1.4 g was hydrogenated in 100 ml of dry dimethylformamide with 0.7 g of 10 palladium on charcoal as a catalyst. After 30 minutes the hydrogenation was completed, the catalyst filtered off and 0.66 g of Z 2 amino alpha methoxyimino 4 thiazole acetic acid and 0.2 g of N hydroxybenzotriazole were added. Dicyclohexylcarbodiimide 720 mg , dissolved in 100 ml of dry dimethylformamide was slowly dropped in with stirring during a period of 10 hours. Stirring was continued for an additional 12 hours.The mixture was cooled to OOC, the precipitated urea filtered off, the solvent removed in vacuo and the residue chromatographed on HP 20 resin using water as eluent.Yield 900 mg melting poin 205 210 C, dec. Example 15 3S Z 2 2 1 Aminocarbonyl amiaano sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 1 2 amaino 4 thiazolyl 2 oooxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid, dipotassium salt S 1 Aminocarbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbonic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 1.98 g see example 14A was hydrogenated in the presence of 1 g of 10 palladium on charcoal in 200 ml of dry dimethylformamide for 30 minutes. The catalyst was filtered off and 300 mg of W hydroxy enzo triazole and 2.5 g of Z 2 amino a 1 2 Cdiphenyl methoxy 1,1 dimethyl 2 oxoethoxy imino 4thiazoleacetic acid was added Dicyclohexylcarbodiimide 1.1 g , dissolved in 100 ml of dimethylformamide was slowly dropped in 10 hours .When the addition is complete, stirring was continued for an additional 10 hours. The solvent was removed in vacuo and the solid residue was suspended in 10 ml of anisole and cooled to 0 C.At this temperature 20 ml of trifluoroacetic acid was dropped in with stirring. The temperature was maintained at 0 C with cooling. After 3.5 hours, the reaction was complete and the solution was poured into 200 ml of ether. The precipitate was filtered off, dried and dissolved in 10 ml of water acetone 1 1 , and the pH was adjusted to 6.5 by the addition of 1 N potassium hydroxide.The acetone was removed in vacuo and the aqueous phase chromatographed on HP 20 resin using water as eluent. Yield 1.5 g melting point 258 C, dec. Example 16 3S R N 2 1 Aminocarbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinylzamino 2 oXo l phenylethyl 4 ethyl 2,3 dioxo 1 piperazine carboxamida, potassium salt S 1 Aminocarbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 1.34 g see example 14A was hydrogenated with 0.6 g of 10 palladium on charcoal as catalyst in 100 ml of dry dimethylformamide for 30 minutes. The catalyst was filtered off and 1.23 g of R a II 4 ethyl 2, 3 dioxo l piperazinyl carbonyl amino benzeneacetic acid and 100 mg of N hydroxy benzotriazole were added. Dicyclohexyl carbodiimide 0.8 g , in 100 ml of dimethylformamide was dropped in with stirring over a period of 10 hours.Stirring was continued for an additional 10 hours. The solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue chromatographed onHP 20 resin, using water as eluent. Yield 590 mg melting point 198 C, dec. Example 17 3S Z 2 Amino alpha methoxyimino N 1 methyl amino carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2oxo 3 azetidinyl 4 thiazoleacetamide, potassium saltA S 1 Methylamino carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt S 1 Aminosulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oDco 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenyl methyl ester, potassium salt 1 g see example 9A was dissolved in 20 ml of dry dimethylformamide. Methylisocyanate 500 mg , was added and the solution was stirred overnight at ambient temperature. The solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue was treated with acetone ether 1 1 and filtered. Yield 0.9 g melting point 153 1600C, dec. B 3S Z 2 Amino alpha methoxyimino N 1 methylamino carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl 4 thiazoleacetamide, potassium salt S 1 Methylamino carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 437 mg was hydrogenated in 50 ml of dry dimethylformamide in the presence of 200 mg of 10 palladium on charcoal. After 45 minutes the reaction was complete and the catalyst was filtered off. S 2 Amino a methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetic acid 220 mg , 50 mg of N hydroxybenzotriazole and 300 mg of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide were added with stirring at ambient temperature.Stirring was continued for 12 hours, the solution cooled to 0 C and the precipitated urea was filtered off. The solvent of the mother liquor was removed in vacuo and the residue was chromatographed on HP 20 resin, using water. Yield 305 mg melting point 220 2250C, dec. Example 18 3S R 4 Ethyl N 2 1 methyl methylamino carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3azetidinyl amino 2 oxo 1 phenylethyl 2,3 dioxol piperazinecarboxamide, potassium saltA S 1 Methyl methylamino carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt S 3 Phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 2azetidinone 4.4 g was suspended in 100 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran and the mixture was cooled to 10 C. At this temperature, 1.6 g of chlorosulfonylisocyanate was added and the reaction mixture was allowed to reach room temperature. Trimethylsilyl N,N dimethylurea 5.2 g were added and stirring at ambient temperature was continued for 12 hours. The solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue was dissolved in 100 ml of ethyl acetate. The organic solution was washed twice with 50 ml portions of water, with 50 ml of 2 N phosphoric acid and with brine. The organic layer was evaporated to dryness, the residue dissolved in water acetone 1 1 50 ml .The pH was adjusted to 6.5 with 1.N potassium hydroxide. The acetone was removed in vacuo and the aqueous solution freeze dried to yield 8 g of crude title compound pure enough for further reactions. B 3S R 4 Ethyl N 2 1 methyl methyl amino carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2 oxo 1 phenylethyl 2,3 dioxo l piperazinecarboxamie, potassium salt S 1 Methyl methylamino carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 900 mg was hydrogenated in 50 ml of dry dimethylformamide in the presence of 400 mg of 10 palladium on charcoal. The hydrogen uptake ceased after about 30 minutes. The catalyst was filtered off and 700 mg R alpha 4 ethyl 2,3 dioxo 1 piperazinyl carbonyl aminojbenzeneacetic acid, 100 mg ofN hydroxybenzotriazole and .600 mg of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide were added with stirring.After 12 hours at ambient temperature, the precipitated urea was filtered off, and the solvent removed in vacuo. The residue was chromatographed onHP 20 resin, using water acetone 9 1 as eluent.Yield 700 mg melting point 177 C, dec. Example 19 3S Z 2 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 1 methyl methylamino carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxyl 2 methylpropanoic acid, dipotassium salt S Il IIlllilethylI methylamino carbony amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 900 mg see example 18A was hydrogenated in 50 ml of dry dimethylformamide in the presence of 450 mg of 10 palladium on charcoal for 30 minutes. The catalyst was filtered off and 1 g of Z 2 amino a II2 diphenylmethoxy l,l dimethyl 2 oxoethoxy imino 4 thiazoleacetic acid, 100 mg of N hydroxybenzotriazole and 600 mg of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide were added with stirring at ambient temperature.After 12 hours, the solution was cooled to 0 0C and the precipitated urea was filtered off. The solution was evaporated to dryness and the residue was filtered off with 50 ml of ethyl acetate. The crude compound was suspended in 2 ml of anisole, cooled to 5 C and 6 ml of trifluoroacetic acid was dropped in at such a rate that the temperature could be maintained at OOC. After 2 hours, 100 ml of dry ether was added and the precipitate was filtered off, washed with ether and dried. The crude compound was dissolved in 20 ml of water and the pH adjusted to 6.5 with 1N potassium hydroxide.After freeze drying, the crude potassium salt was chromatographed using HP 20 resin and water as eluent and then freeze dried. Yield 400 mg melting point 220 C, dec. Example 20 3S Z 2 Amino alpha methoxyimino N methyl methylamino carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl 4 thiazoleacetamide, potassium salt S 1 Methyl methylamino carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 440 mg see examplel8A was hydrogenated as described in example 6. Z 2 Anino a methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetic acid 220 mg , 50 mg of N hydroxybenzotriazole and 250 ml of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide were added after removal of the catalyst. Stirring at ambient temperature was continued for 12 hours.The solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue chromatographed on HP 20 resin, using water acetone 9 1 as eluent. Yield 350 mg isolated by freeze drying melting point 192 C, dec. Example 21 3S Z 2 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 1 dimethylamino carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid, potassium saltA S 1 Dimethylamino carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenyimethyl ester, potassium salt S 3 Phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 2azetidinone 4.4 g was suspended in 150 ml of ethyl acetate and cooled to 150C. Chlorosulfonylisocyanate 3.0 g was added and the mixture was stirred at 0 C until a clear solution was obtained. N,N Dimethylurea 2 g and 2 g of triethylamine were added and stirring was continued overnight. The precipitate was filtered off and the mother liquor washed with two 50 ml portions of water, 50 ml of 2N phosphoric acid and brine.The solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue was dissolved in 50 ml of water acetone 1 1 .The pH was adjusted to 6.5 with 1N potassium hydroxide. The acetone was removed in vacuo and the aqueous solution was freeze dried. Crude title compound 7 g was obtained, which was pure enough for further manipulation. B 3S Z 2 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 1 dimethylamino carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid, potassium salt S 1 Dimethylamino carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino cÅarbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 451 mg was dissolved in 50 ml of anhydrous dimethylformamide, 200 ml of 10 palladium on charcoal was added and hydrogen was bubbled through the solution for 45 minutes. The catalyst was filtered off and 450 mg of Z 2 amino a 2 diphenylmethoxy 1,1 dimethyl 2 oxoethoxy iminot 4 thiazoleacetic acid, 100 mg of N hydroxybenzotriazole and 300 mg of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide were added and the solution was stirred at ambient temperature for 12 hours. The precipitated urea was filtered off and the solvent removed in vacuo. The residue was chromatographed usingHP 20 resin and water acetone 7 3 as eluent.The b enzhydryl ester of the title compound 600 mg was isolated by freeze drying. This compound was suspended in 2 ml of anisole, the mixture cooled to 10 C and 4 ml of trifluoroacetic acid was slowly dropped in, so that the temperature did not exceed 5 C. When the addition was complete, stirring at 5 C was continued for 2 to t hours.The title compound was precipitated by the addition of 100 ml of ether, filtered off, dissolved in 5 ml of water and the pH adjusted to 6.5 with 2N potassium hydroxide. The solution was chromatographed on HP 20 resin using water as eluent.Yield 280 mg melting point 1910C, dec. Example 22 3S Z 2 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 1 3 ethyl 2 oxo 1 imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid, dipotassium saltA S 1 3 Ethyl 2 oxo 1 imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyljcarbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt S 3 Phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 2azetidinone 6.6 g was suspended in 200 ml of anhydrous ethyl acetate and the mixture was cooled to 150C. At this temperature, 5 g of chlorosulfonylisocyanate was added with stirring at 0 C until a clear solution was obtained 10 minutes . Triethylamine 4 g and 5.2 g of 1 aminocarbonyl 3 ethylimidazolidin 2 one were added and stirring was continued at room temperature for 12 hours.The reaction mixture was washed with two 50 ml portions of water, 50 ml of 2 N phosphoric acid and brine. The organic phase was evaporated to dryness, the residue dissolved in 150 ml of water acetone 1 1 and the pH was adjusted to 6.5 with 1 N potassium hydroxide. The acetone was distilled off in vacuo and the remaining aqueous solution was freeze dried. The crude title, compound 12.2 g was pure enough for further reactions. B 3S Z 2 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 1 3 ethyl 2 oxo 1 imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid, dipotassium salt S 1 3 Ethyl 2 oxo 1 imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl3carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 520 mg was hydrogenated in 50 ml of anhydrous dimethylformamide in the presence of 200 mg of 10 palladium on charcoal for 40 minutes. The catalyst was filtered off, 460 mg of Z 2 amino alpha 2 diphenylmethoxy 1,1 dimethyl 2 oxoethoxy imino 4 thiazoleacetic acid, 100 ml of N hydroxybenzotriazole and 300 mg of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide were added and the solution was stirred overnight.The solvent was distilled off in vacuo and the residue was filtered off with ethyl acetate, suspended in 2 ml of anisole and cooled to 100C. Trifluoroacetic acid 4 ml were dropped in at such a rate.that the temperature did not exceed 5 C. Stirring at this temperature was continued for 2 hours.After addition of 100 ml ether, the precipitate a filtered off, dissolved in 10 ml of water, the pH adjusted to 6.5 with 1 N potassium hydroxide and the aqueous solution was chromatographed onHP 20 using water as eluent, and the title compound isolated by freeze drying. Yield 250 mg melting point 245 C, dec. Example 23 3S Z 2 Amino alpha ethoxyimino 1 3 ethyl 2 oxo 1 imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl 4thiazoleacetamide, potassium salt S 1 3 Ethyl 2 oxo 1 imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 520 mg see example 22P was hydrogenated in 50 ml of dimethylformamide in the presence of 200 mg of 10 palladium on charcoal for 40 minutes. The catalyst was filtered off and 230 mg of Z 2 amino a ethoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetic acid, 100 mg ofN hydroxybenzotriazole and 300 mg of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide were added. The solution was agitated at room temperature for 12 hours. After this time the solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue filtered with ethyl acetate.Purification of the crude compound was accomplished by HP 20 chromatography using water acetone 9 1 as elunt, and the title compound isolated by freeze drying. Yield 420 mg melting point 125 C. Example 24 I3s z l 2 Amino N I1 I lrI 3 ethyl 2 ox imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl alpha methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetamide potassium salt Following the procedure of example 23, but replacing Z 2 amino ethoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetic acid by Z 2 amino alpha methoxy imino 4 thiazoleacetic acid, yielded 400 mg of the title compound melting point 1760C, dec. Example 25 3S R 4 Ethyl N 2 1 3 ethyl 2 oxo 1imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2 oxo 1phenylethyl 2,3 dioxo 1 piperazinecarboxamide, potassium salt S 1 3 Ethyl 2 oxo 1 imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 520 mg see example22A was hydrogenated in 50 ml of dimethylformamide in the presence of 200 mg of 10 palladium on charcoal for 40 minutes. After filtration, 330 mg of R alpha 4 ethyl 2,3 dioxo 1 piperazinyl carbonyl amino benzeneacetic acid, 300 mg of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide and 100 mg of N hydroxybenzotriazole were added and the solution was stirred for 12 hours at room temperature.The solution was evaporated in vacuo to dryness and the residue filtered with ethyl acetate. Purification of the crude compound was achieved by chromatography on HP 20 resin using water acetone 9 1 as eluent. Yield 480 mg melting point 181 C, dec. Example 26 3S Z 2 Amino alpha methoxyimino N 1 4 ethyl 2,3 dioxo 1 piperazinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl 4thiazoleacetamide, potassium saltA S 1 3 Ethyl 2 oxo 1 pipeeazinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt S 3 Phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 2azetidinone 4.4 g was suspended in 200 ml of ethyl acetate and at 15 C, 3 g of chlorosulfonylisocyanate was added with stirring. After 15 minutes at 0 C a clear solution was obtained. 2.5 g Triethylamine and 4 g of l aminocarbonyl 4ethyl 2,3 dioxopiperazine was added and stirring was continued for 16 hours. The mixture was washed with two 50 ml portions of water, 50 ml of 2 N phosphoric acid and brine. After evaporation of the solvent, the residue was dissolved in 100 ml of acetone water 1 1 , the pH adjusted to 6.5, the acetone removed and 8 g of crude compound isolated by freeze drying. B 3S Z 2 Amino alpha methoxyimino N 1 4 ethyl 2,3 dioxo 1 piperazinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl 4 thia zoleacetamide, potassium salt .S Il Fl I 4 Ethyl 2,3 dioxo 1 piperazinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinylJcarbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 548 mg was hydrogenated in 50 ml of dimethylformamide in the presence of 270 mg of 10 palladium on charcoal for 45 minutes.To the hydrogenation solution, 210 mg of z 2 amino a methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetic acid, 50 mg of N hydroxybenzotriazole and 300 mg of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide were added and the solution was stirred at 200C for 16 hours. The solvent was removed in vauco, the residue filtered with ethyl acetate and the crude compound was chromatographed on HP 20 resin using water acetone 9 1 as eluent. Yield 280 mg. Example 27 .. 3S Z 2 2 1 4 Ethyl 2,3 dioxo 1piperazinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid, dipotassium salt S 1 4 Ethyl 2,3 dioxo 1 piperazinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 548 mg see example 26A was hydrogenated in 50 ml of dimethylformamide in the presence of 270 mg of 10 palladium on charcoal for 45 minutes. After removal of the catalyst, 450 mg of Z 2 amino alpha 2 diphenylmethoxy 1,1 dimethyl 2 oxoethoxy imino 4 thiazoleacetic acid, 100 mg of N hydrosybenzotriazole and 300 mg of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide were added. The solution was stirred for 16 hours.The solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue was filtered with ethyl acetate. The crude benzhydryl ester of the title.compound was suspended in 2 ml of anisole, cooled to 100C and 4 ml of trifluoroacetic acid was dropped in with stirring. The temperature was maintained at 50C for 2 hours.Ether 100 ml was added and the precipitate was filtered off, dried and dissolved in 5 ml of water, the pH adjusted to 6.5 and the solution chromatographed on HP 20 resin using water as eluent. The title compound 180 mg was isolated by freeze drying. Example 28 3S R 4 Ethyl N 2 1 methylamino carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl aminot 2 oxo 1 phenylethyl 2,3 dioXo 1 piperazinecarboxamide, potassium salt S 1 Methylamino carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 437 mg see examplel7A was hydrogenated in 50 ml of dry dimethylformamide in the presence of 200 mg of 10 palladium on charcoal for 45 minutes. The catalyst was filtered off, 350 mg of R alpha 4 ethyl 2,3 dioxo 1 piperazinyl carbonyl aminoJbenzeneacetic acid, 50 mg of N hydroxybezotriazdle and 300 mg of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide were added the solution was stirred for 12 hours.After removal of the solvent in vacuo, the residue was chromatographed on HP 20 resin using water acetone 9 1 as eluent. Yield 380 mg melting point 178 183 C,dec. Example 29 3S Z 2 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 1 methylamino carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid, dipotassium salt S 1 Methylamino carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 437 mg see example 17A was hydrogenated in 50 ml of dimethylformamide in the presence of 200 mg of 109s palladium on charcoal for 45 minutes. The catalyst was filtered off and 450 mg of Z 2 amino alpha 2 diphenylmethoxy 1,1 dimethyl 2 oxoethoxy imino 4 thiazoleacetic acid, 50 mg of N hydroxybenzotriazole and 300 rng of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide were added.The solution was stirred overnight, evaporated to dryness, the residue suspended in 2 ml of anisole, cooled to 100C and 4 ml of trifluoroacetic acid was dropped in. Stirring was continued for 2 hours at 50C. After addition of 100 ml of ether, the precipitate was filtered off, dissolved in 5 ml of water, the pH adjusted to 6.5 with 1 N potassium hydroxide and the aqueous solution chromatographed on HP 20 resin using water as eluent. The title compound 280 mg was isolated by freeze drying, melting point 215 220 C, dec. Example 30 3S Z 2 1 dimethylamino carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl alpha methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetamide, potassium salt S 1 Dimethylamino carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 451 mg see example 21A was hydrogenated in 50 ml of dimethylformamide in the presence of 200 mg of 10 palladium on charcoal for 45 minutes. The catalyst was filtered off and 201 mg of Z 2 amino a methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetic acid, 50 mg of N hydroxybenzotriazole and 300 mg of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide were added. The solution was stirred for 12 hours at ambient temperature.The solvent was removed in vacuo and the crystalline residue chromatographed onHP 20 resin using water acetone 9.5 0.5 as eluent. Yield 285 mg melting point 201 C, dec. Example 31 3S Z 2 Amino a methoxyimino N 2 oxo l 2 oxo 1 pyrrolidin carbonyl amino sulfonyl aminolcarbonyl 3 azetidinyl 4 thiazoleacetamide, potassium saltA S 2 Oxo 1 2 oxo 1 pyrrolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt S 3 Phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 2azetidinone 3g was suspended in 100 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran at 0 0C. Chlorosulfonylisocyanate 2.1 g was slowly dropped in with stirring while the temperature was maintained at 0 C after 30 minutes, a clear solution was obtained. At OOC, 1.7 g of triethylamine and 2.05 g of N carbamoylpyrrolidone were added. Stirring was continued at ambient temperature for 15 hours.After this time the precipitate was filtered off and the mother liquor evaporated to dryness.The residue was dissolved in 50 ml of water acetone 1 1 , the pH adjusted to 6.5 with 1 N potassium hydroxide, the acetone removed in vacuo and the remaining aqueous solution freeze dried yielding 6 g of the title compound. B 3S Z 2 Amino a Cmethoxyimino N f 2 oxo l 2 oxo 1 pyrrolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 3 azetidinyl 4thiazoleacetamide, potassium salt S 2 Oxo 1 2 oxo 1 pyrrolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 3 azetid inyl3 carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 1 g was hydrogenated in dimethylformamide using a 10 palladium on charcoal catalyst. The catalyst was filtered off, and P.44 g of Z 2 amino a methoxyimino 4thiazoleacetic acid, 30 mg N hydroxybenzotriazole and 0.82 g dicyclohexylcarbodiimide were added to the mother liquor. The solution was stirred overnight, the solvent removed in vacuo and the residue chromatographed on HP 20 resin eluting with water yielding 300 mg of the title compound. Example 32 3S Z 2 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 oxo 2 2 oxo 1 2 oxo 1 pyrrolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 3 azetidinyl amino ethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid, dipotassium salt S 2 Oxo 1 2 oxo 1 pyrrolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 3 azetidinyllcarbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 1.5 g see example 31A was hydrogenated in dimethylformamide using a 10 palladium on charcoal catalyst. The catalyst was filtered off, and 1.47 g of Z 2 amino a 2 diphenylmethoxy 1,1 dimethyl 2 oxoethoxy imino 4 thiazoleacetic acid, 40 mg of N hydroxybenzotriazole and 1.26 g of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide were added to the mother liquor. The solution was stirred overnight, the solvent removed in vacuo and the residue filtered with ether.The residue was suspended in 5 ml of anisole and cooled to 5 C. Trifluoroacetic acid 13 ml was slowly dropped in with stirring, and after 30 minutes the crude product was precipitated by the addition of 100 ml of ether and filtered off.The product was dissolved in 5 ml of water and the pH adjusted to 6.5 with 1 N potassium hydroxide.Chromatography on HP 20 resin eluting with water yielded 500 mg of the title compound, melting point 2330C, dec. Example 33 3S R 4 Ethyl 2,3 dioxo N 2 oxo 2 2 oxo 1 2 oxo 1 pyrrolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl aminoacarbonyll 3 azetidinyl amino l phenylethyl l piperazinecarboxamide, potassium salt S 2 Oxo 1 2 oxo 1 pyrroldinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 3azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 1 g see example 31A was hydrogenated in dimethylformamide using a 10 palladium on charcoal catalyst. The catalyst was filtered off, 0.7 g of R a I 4 ethyl 2,3 dioxo l piperazinyl carbonyl amino benzeneacetic acid, 30 mg of N hydroxybenzotriazole and 0.82 g of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide were added to the mother liquor, and the mixture was stirred overnight at ambient temperature.The solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue chromatographed onHP 20 resin, eluting with water, to yield 300 mg of the title compound, melting point 1860C. Example 34 3S Z 2 Amino 2 alpha methoxyimino N 2 oxo 1 2 oxo 3 oxazolinidyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 3 azetidinyl 4 thiazoleacetamide, potassium saltA S 2 Oxo 1 2 oxo 3 oxazolinidyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 3 azetidinyli carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt S 3 Phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 2azetidinone 3.0 g was suspended in 300 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran and cooled to r700C. Chlorosulfonylisocyanate 2.3 g dissolved in 10 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran was dropped in with stirring. The temperature was allowed to rise to 0 C and this temperature was maintained for 10 minutes. Afterwards it was cooled to 400C. Triethylamine 1.65 g and 1.95 g of N carbamoyl2 oxooxazolidine were added. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 14 hours and the solvent was removed in vacuo. After dissolution in ethyl acetate, 100 ml of 2N phosphoric acid was added and extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were evaporated in vacuo, the residue was dissolved in 100 ml of acetone water 1 1 and the pH was adjusted to 6.5 with 1N potassium hydroxide.After removal of the acetone in vacuo, the aqueous solution was freeze dried yielding 5.2 g of crude product.B 3S Z 2 Amino alpha methoxyimino N 2 oxo 1 2 oxo 3 oxazolinidyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 3 azetidinyl 4thiazoleacetamide, potassium salt S 2 Oxo 1 2 oxo 3 oxazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 3azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 1 g was hydrogenated in 80 ml of dry dimethylformamide using 0.5 g of 10 palladium on charcoal as catalyst. After 20 minutes, the hydrogenationwas completed and the catalyst zJas filtered off. Z 2 Amino alpha methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetic acid 0.44 g , 30 mg of N hydroxybenzotriazole and 0.91 g of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide were added to the mother liquor.The solution was stirred for 12 hours at room temperature, the solvent removed in vacua and the 1.7 g residue was chromatographed using HP 20 resin and water as eluent, yielding 0.3 g of the title compound, melting point 2080C, dec.Analysis for C14H15KN809S2 C 30.99 H 2.79 N 20.65 S 11.82 K 7.21 Found C 30.08 H 3.13 N 19.52 S 10.34 K 7.41 Example 35 13S R 4 Ethyl 2, 3 dioxo N I2 oxo 2 1 F2 oxo 1 2 oxo 3 oxazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 3 azetidinyl amino 1phenylethyl 1 piperazinecarboxamide, potassium salt S 2 Oxo 1 2 oxo 3 oxazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 3azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt Cl g see example 34A was hydrogenated in 80 ml of dry dimethylformamide using 0.5 g of a 10 palladium on charcoal catalyst. The catalyst was filtered off, 0.7 g of R alpha 4 ethyl 2,3 dioxo 1 piperazinyl carbonyl aminolbenzeneacetic acid, 30 mg of N hydroxybenzotriazole and 0.91 g of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide were added to the mother liquor, and the mixture was stirred for 14 hours at ambient temperature.The solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue chromatographed on HP 20 resin, eluting with water, to yield 0.36 g of the title compound, melting point 187 C, dec.Analysis for C23H25KN8O115 C 41.81 H 3.81 N 16.96 S 4.85 K 5.92Found C 40.04 H 3.93 N 16.33 S 4.45 K 5.59 Example 36 3S Z 2 1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 oxo 2 2 oxo 1 2 oxo 3 oxazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 3 azetidinyl amino ethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid, dipotassium salt S 2 Oxo 1 2 oxo 3 oxazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 1 g see example 34A was hydrogenated in 80 ml of dimethylformamide using 0 .5 g of a 10 palladium on charcoal catalyst.The catalyst was filtered off, and 0.97 g of Z 2 amino alpha 2 diphenylmethoxy 1,1 dimethyl 2 oxoethoxy imino 4 thiazoleacetic acid, 30 mg of N hydroxybenzotriazole and 0.91 g of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide were added to the mother liquor. The solution was stirred for 14 hours and the solvent removed in vacuo. The residue was suspended in 4 ml of anisole and cooled to 50C. Trifluoroacetic acid 12 ml was slowly dropped in with stirring, and after 20 minutes the crude product was precipitated by the addition of 100 ml of ether and filtered off. The product was dissolved in 20 ml of water acetone 1 1 and the pH adjusted to 6.5 with 1 N potassium hydroxide.Acetone was evaporated, the residue was freeze dried and the crude product was chromatography on HP 20 resin to yield 0.28 g of the title compound, melting point 2500C, dec.Analysis for C17H18K2N8 01152 C 31.28 H, 2.78 N 17.17 S 9.83 K 11.98Found C 29.54 H 3.23 N 16.93 S 8.97 K 11.86 Example 37 3S Z 2 Amino N 1 3 2 aminoethyl 2oxo 1 imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl alpha methoxy imino 4 thiazoleacetamide, potassium salt S 3 Phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 2azetidinone 2g was suspended in 200 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran and cooled to 70 C. Chlorosulfonylisocyanate 1.4 g dissolved in 7 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran was added with stirring.The temperature was allowed to rise to 0 0C and this temperature was maintained for 10 minutes.Afterwards it was cooled to 400C, 1.2 g of triethylamine was dropped in and 2.9 g of 1 2 t butoxycarbonyl amino ethyl 3 carbamoyl 2oxoimidazolidine was added. This mixture was stirred at room temperature for 14 hours. Following the work up procedure described in example 34A yielded 5.4 g of S 1 3 2 t butoxy carbonylamino ethyl 2 oxo 1 imidazolidinyl carbonyl aminoAsulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt. The above prepared compound 2.7 g was hydrogenated in 250 ml of dry dimethylformamide using 1.4 g of 10 palladium on charcoal catalyst.After 30 minutes, the hydrogenation was completed and the catalyst was filtered off. Z 2 Amino a methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetic acid 0.95 g , 54 mg of N hydroxybenzotriazole and 1.75 g of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide were added to the mother liquor. The solution was stirred for 12 hours at room temperature, the solvent removed in vacuo and the residue dissolved in 6 ml of anisole and cooled to 5 C. Trifluoroacetic acid 15 ml was carefully dropped in with stirring. The temperature was maintained for an additional 3 hours, and the title compound precipitated by the addition of 150 ml of dry ether. The product was filtered and dissolved in 30 ml of water acetone 1 1 , and the pH was adjusted to 6.5 by the addition of 1N potassium hydroxide.Acetone was evaporated, the residue freeze dried and 2.7 g of crude product,was chromatographed on HP 20 resin eluting with water, to yield 0.25 g of the title compound, melting point 193 C, dec. Example 38 3S Z 2 2 1 3 2 Aminoethyl 2oxo 1 imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 1 2 amino 4 thiazolyl 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid, dipotassium salt S 1 3 2 t Butoxycarbonylamino ethyl 2 oxo 1 imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 2.7 g see example 37 was hydrogenated in dry dimethylformamide using 10 palladium on charcoal as a catalyst. The catalyst was filtered off, and Z 2 amino a F 2 diphenyl methoxy 1,1 dimethyl 2 oxoethoxy imino 4thiazoleacetic acid 2.1 g , 54 mg of N hydroxybenzotriazole and 1.75 g of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide were added to the mother liquor.Following the work up procedure described in example 37 and chromatography on HP 20 resin eluting with water yielded 0.3 g of the title compound, melting point 221 C, dec. Example 39 3S Z 2 Amino N 1 3 2 hydroxyethyl 2oxo 1 imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl aminoJcarbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl a methoxy imino 4 thiazoleacetamlde, potassium salt S 3 Phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 2azetidinone 1.5 g was suspended in 100 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran and cooled to 70 C. Chlorosulfonylisocyanate 1.1 g dissolved in 10 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran was dropped in with stirring. The temperature was allowed to rise to 0 C and maintained there for 20 minutes, followed by cooling to 40 C. Triethylamio 0.9 g and 2.8 g of 1 carbamoyl 2 oxo 3 2 triphenylmethyl oxy ethyl imidazolidine were added and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 14 hours.The solvent was removed in vacuo and the work up procedure of example 34A was followed yielding 4.3 g of S Il fIII13 2 hydroxyethyl 2 oxo l imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt. The above prepared compound was hydrogenated in 80 ml of dry dimethylformamide using 0.3 g of 10 palladium on charcoal catalyst. After 30 minutes the hydrogenation was completed and the catalyst was filtered off. Z 2 Amino a methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetic acid 195 mg , 13 mg of N hydroxybenzotriazole and 360 mg of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide were added to the mother liquor. The solution was stirred for 12 hours at room temperature, the solvent removed in vacuo and the residue precipitated with ether. Crude product 0.5 g was purified on HP 20 resin eluent water acetone 9.5 0.5 yielding 30 mg of the title compound, melting point 1930C, dec.Analysis for C16HlgKNgOgS2 C 32.87 H 3.28 N 21.56 S 10.97 K 6.69Found C 31.26 , H 3.44 N 18.56 S 8.86 K 6.56 Example 40 I3S Z 2 IF I1 2 Amino 4 thiazolyl 2 F Il 3 2 hydroxyethyl 2 oxo 1 imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3azetidinyl amino 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2methylpropanoic acid, dipotassium salt S 1 3 2 Hydroxyethyl 2 oxo 1imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 470 mg see example 39 was hydrogenated in 80 ml of dry dimethylformaide using 0.3 g of 10 palladium on charcoal as a catalyst.After 30 minutes the catalyst was filtered off, and Z 2 amino alpha 2 diphenylmethoxy 1,1 dimethyl 2 oxoethoxy imino 4thiazoleacetic acid, 13 mg of N hydroxybenzotriazole and 360 mg of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide were added to the mother liquor. Following the procedure described in example 36 yielded the title compound, melting point 219 C, dec. Example 41 3S Z 2 2 1 3 Amino 2 oxo 1 imidazoolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3azetidinyl amino 1 2 amino 4 thiazolyl 2oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid, dipotassium saltA S 1 3 t Butoxycarbonyl amino 2 oxo 1imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt S 3 Phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 2azetidinone 1.5 g were suspended in 150 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran and cooled to 60 C. Chlorosulfonylisocyanate 1.1 g dissolved in 20 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran was dropped in with stirring.The temperature was allowed to rise to 0 C and this temperature was maintained for 15 minutes and then cooled to 600C. Triethylamine 0.9 g and 1.7 g of 1 carbamoyl 3 t butoxycarbonyl amino3 2 oxoimidazolidine were added. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 14 hours and then worked up using the procedure described in example 34, part A, yielding 1.5 g of the title compound. B 3S 2 2 12 11 r I 3 Amino 2 oxo l imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 1 2 amino 4 thiazolyl 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid, dipotassium salt S 1 3 t Butoxycarbonyl amino 2oxo 1 imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 0.79 g was hydrogenated in 60 ml of dry dimethylformamide using 0.4 g of 10 palladium on charcoal catalyst..After 20 minutes Jthe hydrogenation was completed and the catalyst was filtered off. Z 2 Amino a 2 diphenylmethoxy 1,1 dimethyl 2 oxoethoxy imino 4 thiazoleacetic acid 0.63 g , 19 mg ofN hydroxybenzotriazole and 540 mg of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide were added to the mother liquor.Following the procedure described in example 34B, yielded 48 mg of the title compound, melting point 208 C, dec. Example 42 3S Z 2 Amino alpha methoxyimino N 1 3 1 methlyethylidene amino 2 oxoo 1 imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3azetidinyl 4 thiazoleacetamide, potassium salt S 1 3 t Butoxycarbonyl amino 2oxo 1 imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid.phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 0.7 g see example 41A was hydrogenated and then reacted with 0.26 g of Z 2 amino a methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetic acid following the procedures described in example 3 B, yielding 65 mg of the title compound, melting point 2070C, dec.Analysis for C17H21KN10O8S2 C 34.22 H 3.55 N 23.47 S 10.75 K 6.55Found C 32.56 H 3.88 N 21.37 S 9.10 K 7.03 Example 43 3S Z 2 Amino N 1 3 methyl 2 oxo 1imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl alpha methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetamide, potassium saltA S 1 3 Methyl 2 oxo 1 imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt S 3 Phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 2azetidinone 3.0 g was suspended in 300 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran and cooled to 70 C. Chlorosulfonylisocyanate 2.1 g dissolved in 10 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran was dropped in with stirring.The temperature was allowed to rise to 0 C and this temperature was maintained for 10 minutes, then cooled to 400C. Triethylamine 1.7 g and 2.3 g of l carbamoyl 3 methyl 2oxoimidazolidine were added. Following the procedure described in example 34A yielded 4.3 g of the title compound. B 3S Z 2 Amino N 1 3 methyl 2 oxo 1imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl alpha methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetamide, potassium salt S 1 3 Methyl 2 oxo 1 imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 1.2 g was hydrogenated in 80 ml of dry dimethylformamide using 0.6 g of 10 palladium on charcoal as catalyst. After 30 minutes the catalyst was filtered off, and Z 2 amino a methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetic acid 0.52 g , 32 mg of N hydroxybenzotriazole and 1.0 g of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide were added to the mother liquor. The solution was stirred for 13 hours at room temperature and the solvent was then removed in vacuo. The residue was chromatographed on HP 20 resin, eluting with water, to yield 0.120 g of the title compound, melting point 2050C,dec.Analysis for C15Hl8KNgO8S2 C 32.43 H 3.27 N 22.69 S 11.54 K 7.04Found C 30.83 H 3.44 N 21.34 S 10.20 K 7.30 Example 44 3S Z 2 2 1 3 Methyl 2 oxo 1imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 1 2 amino 4thiazolyl 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid, dipotassium salt S t 1 I r t E 3 Methyl 2 oxo 1 imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 1.5 g see example 43A was hydrogenated in 80 ml of dry dimethylformamide using 0.8 g of 10 palladium on charcoal as catalyst.After 30 minutes the catalyst was filtered off and 1.4 g of Z 2 amino alpha 2 diphenylmethoxy 1,1 dimethyl 2 oxoethoxy imino 4 thiazoleacetic acid, 40 mg of N hydroxybenzotriazole and 1.3 g of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide were added to the mother liquor. Following the procedure of example 36 yielded 0.5 g of the title compound, melting point 2110C, dec.Analysis for C18H21K2N2O19S2 C 32.47 H 3.18 N 18.94 S 9.63 K 11.75Found C 30.55 H 3.53 N 18.12 S 8.65 K 10.97 Example 45 3S Z 2 2 1 2 Oxo 1 imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3azetidinyl amino 1 2 amino 4 thiazolyl 2oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid, dipotassium saltA S 1 2 Oxo 3 triphenylmethyl 1imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt S 3 Phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 2azetidinone 1.3 g was suspended in 130 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran and cooled to 70 C.Chlorosulfonylisocyanate 0.9 g dissolved in 5 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran was dropped in with stirring. The temperature was allowed to rise to 0 C and maintained there for 10 minutes, followed by cooling to 400C. Triethylamine 0.8 g and 0.65 g of l carbamoyl 2 oxo 3 triphenylmethyl imida zol idine were added and the mixture was worked up following the procedure described in example 34A to yield 3.2 g of the title compound. B 3S Z 2 2 1 2 Oxo 1 imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3azetidinyl amino 1 2 amino 4 thiazolyl 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid, dipotassium salt S 1 2 Oxo 3 triphenylmethyl 1imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 1.5 g was hydrogenated in 80 ml of dry dimethylformamide using 0.9 g of 10 palladium on charcpal as catalyst. After 30 minutes the catalyst was filtered off and 0.98 g of Z 2 amino a 2 diphenylmethoxy 1,1 dimethyl 2 oxoethoxy imino 4 thiazoleacetic acid, 27 mg of N hydroxybenzotriazole and 0.84 g of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide were added to the mother liquor.Following the procedure of example 36 yielded 0.28 g of the title compound, melting point 228 C, dec. Example 46 13s z 2 Amino N 11 fff II 2 oxo l imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl alpha methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetamide, potassium saltA S 1 2 Oxo 1 imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt S 1 2 Oxo 3 triphenylmethyl 1imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 1.7 g see example 45A was treated with 2N phosphoric acid and 1N potassium hydroxide following the procedure described in example 34A to yield 1.73 g of the title compound.B 3S Z 2 Amino N 1 2 oxo 1 imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl a methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetamide, potassium salt S 1 2 Oxo 1 imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 0.8 g was hydrogenated in 70 ml of dry dimethylformamide using 0.5 g of 10 palladium on charcoal as catalyst. After 20 minutes the catalyst was filtered off, and Z 2 amino a methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetic acid 0.38 g , 27 mg of N hydroxybenzotriazole and 0.78 g of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide were added to the mother liquor. The solution was stirred for 14 hours at room temperature and the solvent was then removed in vacuo.The residue was chromatographed on HP 20 resin, to yield 200 mg of the title compound, melting point 2160C, dec. Example 47 3S Z 2 Amino N 1 3 methylsulfonyl 2oxo 1 imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl alpha methoxy imino 4 thiazoleacetamide, potassium saltA S 1 3 Methylsulfonyl 2 oxo 1imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt S 3 Phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 2azetidinone 3.0 g was suspended in 300 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran and cooled to 70 C.Chlorosulfonylisocyanate 2.1 g dissolved in 10 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran was dropped in with stirring. The temperature was allowed to rise to 0 C and this temperature was maintained for 10 minutes, then cooled to 400C. Triethylamine 1.7 g and 2.3 g of l carbamoyl 3 methyl sulfonyl 2 oxoim.idazolidine were added.Following the procedure described in example 34A yielded 2.8 g of the title compound.B 3S Z 2 Amino N 1 3 methylsulfonyl 2oxo 1 imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl alpha methoxy imino 4 thiazoleacetamide, potassium salt S 1 3 Methylsulfonyl 2 oxo 1imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 1.8 g was hydrogenated in 300 ml of dry dimethylformamide using 2.0 g of 10 palladium on charcoal as catalyst. After 20 minutes the catalyst was filtered off, and Z 2 amino alpha methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetic acid 1.1 g , 70 mg of N hydroxybenzotriazole and 2.0 g of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide were added to the mother liquor. The solution was stirred for 1 2 hours at room temperature and the solvent was then removed in vacuo. The residue was chromatographed on HP 20 resin, eluting with water acetone 9 1 , to yield 200 mg of the title compound, melting point 204 C, dec. Example 48 3S Z 2 2 1 3 Methylsulfonyl 2oxo 1 imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 1 2 amino 4 thiazolyl 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid, dipotassium salt S 1 3 Methylsulfonyl 2 oxo 1imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 1.5 g see example 47A was hydrogenated in 150 ml of dry dimethylformamide using 0.9 g of 10 palladium on charcoal as catalyst. After 20 minutes the catalyst was filtered off and 1.23 g of z 2 amino a FF2 diphenylmethoxy l , l dimethyl 2 oxoethoxy imino 4 thiazoleacetic acid, 40 mg ofN hydroxybenzotriazole and 1.1 g of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide were added to the mother liquor. Following the procedure of example 36 yielded 180 mg of the title compound, melting point 2360C, dec. Example 49 3S Z 2 Amino N 1 3 isopropyl 2 oxo 1imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl alpha methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetamide, potassium salt S 1 3 Isopropyl 2 oxo 1 imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt S 3 Phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 2azetidinone 3.0 g was suspended in 300 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran and cooled to 70 C. Chlorosulfonylisocyanate 2.1 g dissolved in 10 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran was dropped in with stirring.The temperature was allowed to rise to 0 C and this temperature was maintained for 10 minutes, then cooled to 40 C. Triethylamine 1.7 g and 2.74 g of 1 carbamoyl 3 isopropyl 2 oxo imidazolidine were added. Following the procedure described in example 34A yielded 5.9 g of the title compound. B 35 z 2 Amino N l I r 3 isopropyl 2 oxo 1 imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl alpha methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetamide, potassium salt S 1 3 Isopropyl 2 oxo 1 imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 1.5 g was hydrogenated in 150 ml of dry dimethylformamide using 0.8 g of 10 palladium on charcoal as catalyst. After 20 minutes the catalyst was filtered off, and 0.6 g of Z 2 amino alpha methoxyimino 4 thiazoleacetic acid, 40 mg of N hydroxybenzotriazole and 1.2 g of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide were added to the mother liquor.The solution was stirred for 14 hours at room temperature and the solvent was then removed in vacuo. The residue was chromatographed on HP 20 resin, eluting with water acetone 9.25 0.75 to yield 300 mg of the title compound, melting point 189 C, dec. Example 50 3S Z 2 2 1 3 isopropyl 2 oxo 1imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl amino 1 2 amino 4 thiazolyl 2 oxoethylidene amino oxy 2 methylpropanoic acid, dipotassium salt S 1 3 Methyl 2 oxo 1 imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino sulfonyl amino carbonyl 2 oxo 3 azetidinyl carbamic acid, phenylmethyl ester, potassium salt 1.5 g see example 43A was hydrogenated in 150 ml of dry dimethylformamide using 0.8 g of 10 palladium on charcoal as catalyst. After 20 minutes the catalyst was filtered off and 1.3 g of Z 2 amino a , 2 diphenylmethoxy 1,1 dimethyl 2 oxoethoxy imino 4 thiaz6leacetic acid, 40 mg of N hydroxybenzotriazole and 1.2 g of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide were added to the mother liquor. Following the procedure of example 36 yielded 0.4 g of the title compound, melting point 234 C, dec.