# Gas distributor for fluidized beds.

## Abstract
Gas distributor for fluid bed reactors also suitable for fluidizing large sized particles, consisting of an inverted cone provided with holes 3 for the inflow of gas and having apertures and inclinations so as to allow the passage of the recycled gas and of the solid particles carried along by this recycled gas, and to hinder the fall by gravity from the reactor of the particles when the apparatus is not in operation.

## Claims
C L A I M S 1. Gas distributor for fluid bed reactors, consisting of an inverted cone 2 having a conicity comprised between 500 and 1200, and provided on its lateral walls with passages 3 for the adduction of gas disposed symmetrically with respect to the axis of the cone, having such dimensions and inclinations as to allow the inflow of the gas and the solid particles carried along by it, and to hinder the fall by gravity of the particles when the apparatus is not in operation. 2. Distributor according to claim 1, characterized in that between the inner cone 1 and the outer cone 2 alongtheirperipheral contact line are formed slots 5 for the inflow of the recycled gas. 3. Distributor according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the apex of the cone is provided with device 6 for the discharge of the fluidized material. 4. Distributor according to claim 1, characterized in that the holes 3 for the inflow of the gases show an inclination with respect to the horizontal line comprised between 2 and 50 , but preferably comprised between 10 and 15 .

## Description
The present invention concerns apparatuses in which a gas is put into contact with a solid particulated material, and in which the said particles are maintained in a fluidized state in a fluidized bed. More particularly, the present invention relates to a distributing device for the gas fed into the fluidized bed. For many years the importance for such distributing device to ensure a smooth and correct operation of the fluid bed apparatus has been known to the man skilled in the art. In fact, the occurrence of the fluidization, the uniform distribution of the gas in the bed, with the absence of blind zones, the frequency and dimensions of the bubbles in the fluidized bed, with anDre cable influences on the mixing of the solids and on the exchanges of material and heat inside the system fundamentally depends on the characteristics of the gas distributing system. For most of the applications, it is necessary that the gas distributor ensures a uniform distribution of the gas, that it hinders the fall by gravity of the solid during the operation of the gas distribution as well as during the interruption of the reactor operation. Furthermore, said distributor has to be shaped in such a way as to reduce to a minimum the pressure loss and the damage caused by erosion. Many types of distributors ensure the above mentionned per formances, and they substantially consist of a plate with a plurality of small holes which allow passage of the gas but not of the small particles forming the fluidized bed. The present invention therefore provides a new device for the distribution of gas and vapors in fluidized beds of solid particles which, besides the previously mentioned characteristics, also presents the characteristic of being perfectly crossable by the solids i.e.allowing the passage of the solids dragged along by the recycled gases or vapors returned to the bed. The device claimed by the invention consists of two parts the inner part 1 herein after referred to as inner cone has the shaoe of an inverted cone, and is destined to support the bed of solid material during the interruption of operation, to distribute the gas uniformly inside the bed and to allow the particles carried along by the recycling gas to be returned into the bed.The outer part 2 of the distributing device, herein after called the external cone which may, however, also display any other geometrical shape, ensures perfect and homogeneous feeding of the gas and of the particles at the orifices or holes arranged on the upper part of the internal cone in contact with the bed. The inner part 1 of the device, or inner cone which may, however, have a generally pyramidal shape with a more or les faceted surface, shows a conicity comprised between 50 and 1200. In this inner cone are provided on the lower part at least two holes 3, but preferably 3 to 24 holes, in a symmetrical axial arrangement. The length of the hole 3 must be greater than the diameter of the hole itself in order to cause the gases to flow in a ore determined direction. Said direction forms, with respect to the horizontal line, an angle comprised between 2 and 50 , but preferably comprised between 100 and 15 . Nozzles can be inserted into the feeding holes, for the specific purpose of causing the ras to flow in a Drecise direction these nozzles are particularly useful when the thickness of the cone walls is small in comparison to the diameter of the holes themselves. This inner cone 1 presents at its lower end an outlet which allows discharging from the bed, the product and the substances harmful to the smooth operation of the apparatus. At least two spacers 4 fig. 2 allow the supporting of the inner cone 1 inside the external or outer cone 2 and, at the same time, the forming of a crown of slots or orifices 5 figures 2, 3 and 4 along the neripheral contact line between the two cones 1 and 2. These slots or orifices 5 ensure the re introduction into the bed of the solid that could not pass through the holes 3, as well as the cleaning of the reactor. The width of these orifices 5 is dimensioned, with regard to the granulometry of the product and the flowability characteristics of the particles, in such a way as to allow the passage of the particles conveyed by the carrying gas, while at the same time to hinder the fall by aravity of the fluid bed during inter ruption of the fluidization nrocess. The operation of said device, will be better understood by reference to the attached drawings. The fluidized bed reactor K of figure 1 at whose base is arranged the gas distributor, according to this invention, is loaded through a loading inlet PC with solid up to a certain desired height. Thereupon the fluidizing gas FG is fed into the mouth of the external cone 2 of the gas distributor and, is conveyed to the various holes 3 and to the slots 5 of the internal cone 1 in order to diffuse. From said cone, the gas is uniformly distributed throughout the bed, bringing this latter into a fluidization condition. The whole gas flow fed in, or part of it, with or without fresh fed A, together with the particles removed from the fluid bed, is recycled by means of a fan RV. During the fluidization, the solid may be discharged continuously from the fluid bed through discharge E on which is mounted a valve fitted with a timer T. Figures 2, 3 and 4 represent structures, that are typical for the device according to this invention. Amongst the advantages derived from the application of this type of distributor to the fluidized bed anparatuses, must be listed, when said distributor is operated in a closed circuit, the following advantages it allows to eliminate cyclones and filters that previously had to be used on said apparatuses, leading to considerable financial economy both in the realization stage of the installation as well as in the operational stage it allows to reduce to a minimum the losses of solid product and to maintain the fluidized material in a homogeneous state, thereby avoi ding the grading of the bed itself it extends the use of the fluidized beds to new processes, by overco ming the drawbacks for these processes to use the presence of filters such as for instance the gaseous phase polymerization. Furthermore it allows the presence of a device 6 for the discharge of the fluidi zed material consisting of a discharge tube positioned in the lowest part of the fluidized bed and showing a oronounced conicity this facilitates the discharging of the product as well as of the possi ble build up of solids that may form in the reactor it induces in the bed a fluidodynamic condition that also makes the bed suitable for the fluidization of particles of a few millimeters.EXAMPLE In order to illustrate the operational characteristics of the distri butor according to this invention a series of operations was carried out on a fluidization column of 292 mm diameter. The distributor used was of the type represented in figure 4, and had 12 holes and 12 slots. It was operated at atmosnheric pressure and at room temperature, using nitrogen as the fluidizing gas. The material to be fluidized consisted respectively of polypropylene particles with a mean Sauter diameter of 216 micron, ethylenepropylene copolymer particles with a mean diameter of 271 micron and polypropylene particles of a spherical form with a mean diameter of 1168 micron. The fluidization tests, carried outwith a height diameter ratio of the bed equal respectively to 2, 3 and 4, and with a superficial velocity ratio between flow rate of the gas and the cross section area of the column of the fluidizing gas of up to 50 cm sec., render apparent that the distributor shows the following advantages it allows to achieve a regular fluidization of the bed with a fast circulation of the particles velocity of said particles at the wall of more than 15 cm sec., at the higher gas velocities it allows to operate with an efficiency of distribution, defined as the ratio between the loss of pressure found in the bed and the theo retical loss weight of solid on the pressure intake cross section of column , in. general greater than 0.9, but in many cases attaining values equal to unity it is perfectly crossable by the powder carried i.e. allows the pas sage of this oowder along by the recycling gas it hinders the passage of the solids into the lower cone external cone 2 and into the fluidization gas feed pipeline leading to the bed, also during interruption of oneration it allows trouble free discharge of the solid of the bed in a con tinuous way.