# Dibenz b,e oxepin derivatives and pharmaceutical compositions containing them.

## Abstract
A pharmaceutical composition contains, as the active ingredient, a dibenz b,e oxepin derivative represented by the following formula

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A novel dibenz b,e oxepin derivative represented by the following general formula Ia EMI16.1 wherein R1 represents an alkyl group having 1 to 5 carbon atoms or a halogen atom R2 and R3 may be same or different group and each represent an alkyl group having 1 to 5 carbon atoms provided that when R2 and R3 represent a methyl group, R1 does not represent a methyl group, a fluorine atoms a chlorine atom or a bromine atom and me pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts thereo . 2. A derivative of claim 1 namely, 2 methyl 11 2. diethylamino ethyl thio 6,11 dihydrodibenz b,e oxepin. 3. A derivative of claim 1 namely, 4 methyl li 2 diethylamino ethyl thio 6,11 dihydrodibenz b,e oxepin. 4. A derivative of claim 1 namely, 2 chloro 11 2 diethylamino ethyl thio 6,11 dihydrodibenz b,e oxepin. 5. A derivative of claim 1 namely, 2 ethyl li 2 diethylamino ethyl thio 6,11 dihydrodibenz b,e oxepin. 6. A derivative of claim 1 namely, 2 fluoro 11 2 diethylamino ethyl thio 6, 11 dihyrodibenz b,e oxepin. 7. A derivative of claim 1 namely, 2 ethyl il 2 dimethylamino ethyl thio 6,11 dihydrodibenz b,e oxepin. 8. A derivative of claim 1 namely, 2 ethyl li 2 diisopropylamino ethyl thio 6,11 dihydrodibenz b,e oxepin. 9. A derivative of claim 1 namely, 2 fluoro il 2 diisopropylamino ethyl thio 6,11 dihydrodibenz b,e oxepin. 10. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a pharmaceutical carrier and, as an active ingredient, an effective amount of a dibenz b,e oxepin derivative represen.ec by the following general formula I EMI17.1 wherein R1 represents an alkyl group having 1 to 5 carbon atoms or a halogen atom, R2 and R3 may be same or Fferent group and each represent an alkyl group having 1 to 5 carbon atoms and the pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts thereof. 11. A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 10, wherein said dibenz b,e oxepin derivative is 2 methyl11 2 dimethylamino ethyl 6,11 dihydrodibenz b,e oxepin. 12. A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 10, wherein said dibenz b,e oxepin derivative is 2 methyl11 2 diethylamino ethyl thio 6,11 dihydrodibenz b,e oxepin. 13. A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 10, wherein said dibenz b,e oxepin derivative is 4 methyl11 2 diethylamino ethyl thio 6,11 dihydrodibenz b,e oxepin. 14. A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 10, wherein said dibenz b,e oxepin derivative is 2 chloro11 2 diethylamino ethyl thio 6,11 dihydrodibenz b,e oxepin. 15. A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 10, wherein said dibenz b,e oxepin derivative is 2 ethyl11 2 diethylamino ethyl thio 6,11 dihydrodibenz b,e oxepin. 16. A pharmaceutical cortposltion according to claim 10, wherein said dibenz b,e oxepin derivative is 2 fluoro11 2 diethylamino ethyl thio 6,11 dihydrodibenz b,e oxepin. 17. A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 10, wherein said dibenz b,e oxepin derivative is 2 ethyl11 2 dimethylamino ethyl thio 6,11 dihydrodibenz b,e oxepin. 18. A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 10, wherein said dibenz b,e oxepin derivative is 2 fluoro11 2 dimethylamino ethyl thio 6,11 dihydrodibenz b,e oxepin. 19. A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 10, wherein said dibenz b,egoxepin derivative is 2 ethyl11 2 diisopropylamino ethyl thio 6,11 dihydrodibenz b,e oxepin. 20. A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 10, wherein said dibenz b,e oxepin derivative is 2 fluoro 11 2 diisopropylamino ethyl thio 6,11 dihydrodibenz b,e3 oxepin. 21. A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 10, wherein said dibenzlb,e oxepin derivative is 3 methyl 11 2 dimethylamino ethyl3thio 6,11 dihydrodnbenzEbte oxepin.

## Description
This invention relates to novel dibenz b,e oxepin derivatives, the pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts thereof and a pharmaceutical composition containing, as the active ingredient, a dibenz b,e oxepin derivative. More particularly, the present invention pertains to a novel dibenz b,eoxepin derivative represented by the following general formula Ia EMI1.1 wherein iil represents an alkyl group having 1 to 5 carbon atoms or a halogen atom, R2 and R3, may be same or diferent group and each represent an alkyl group having 1 to 5 carbon atoms provided that when R2 and R3 represent a methyl group, R11 does not represent 2 methyl group, a fluorine atom, a chlorine atom or a bromine atom and the pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts thereof. In addition, the present invention pertains to a pharmaceutical composition comprising a pharmaceutical carrier and, as an active ingredient, an effective amount of a dibenzfb,e oxepin derivative represented by the following general formula I EMI2.1 wherein R1 represents an alkyl group having 1 to 5 carbon atoms or a halogen atom, R2 and R3 may be same or different group and each represent an alkyl group having to 5 carbon atoms and the pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts thereof. A dibenz b,e oxepin derivative or tne present invention and the pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts thereof have antiasmathic ativity and are therefore useul as an antiasthami agent. Among the compounds represented by the general formula I , compounds wherein R2 and R3 represent a methyl group and R1 represents a methyl group, a fluorine atom, a chlorine atom or a bromine atom are known compounds which are descibed in Eur. J. Med. Chem. Chimica Therapeu tica 9, 259 1974 . while it is described in the reference that such compounds have antidepresant and periphearl anticholinergic activities, it is not disclosed or suggested that the compounds have an antiasthmatic activity. The present inventions have first found that compound I has an antiasthmatic activity.The present invention is described in detail below. In the definition of R1 , R2 and R3 in the general formula Ia and R1, R2 and R3 in the general formula I the alkyl group having 1 to 5 arbon atoms includes a methyl group, an ethyl group, a propyl group a butyl group, an amyl group, etc. and the halogen atom includes a fluorine atom, a chlorine atom, a bromne atom, and an iodine atom. The acid addition salts of the general formulae Ia and I include inorganic acid addition salts such as hydrochloride, sulfate, hydrobrmide, phosphate, etc. and organic acid addition salts such as acetate, maleate, fumarate, tartrate, citrate, oxalate, benzoate, etc. A process for production of a compound represented by the general formula I hereinafter referred to as compound I is shown below.EMI3.1 Compound II Compound III Compound I wherein R1, R2 and R3 have the same meanings as defined above. Equimolecular qunatities of compound II and compound III or an acid addition salt of compound III are dissolved in an inert solvent such as chloroform, methylene chloride, toluene, tetrahydrofuran, N,N dimethylformamide, etc. and the mixture is stirred at room temperature to the boiling point of the inert solvent used or 30 ninutes to 2 hours. Then, the solvent is removed crom the reaction solution to obtain a crude salt of compound I as a rescue. The crude product is dissolved in an aqueous basic solution, and then the mixture is extracted wit an organic solvent hard to be mixed with water such as diethylether, whereby the desired compound is obtained in the form of free base. Because of unlikeliness to crystallize, the product, if necessary, is subjected to purifi cation by column chromatography, etc. and then, an appro priate acid is added thereto to obtain an acid addition salt thereor, which is more tractable. Further F necessary, the acid addition salt may be converted to a highly purified preparate by a suitable recrystallization operation.It goes, without saying, that the aforesaid residual crude product after removal of the reactIon solvent is immediately subjected to a recrystallization treatement without the liberation process whereby a purified preparate is obtained As an appropriate acid, a physiologically usable inorganic aid such as hydrochloic acid, sulfuric acid, hydrobromic acid and phosphoric acid or an organic acid such as acetic acid, maleic acid, fumaric acid, tartaric acid, citric acid, oxalic acid and benzoic acid may be used. Compound II an starting material for compound I is a known compound which is disclosed in Japanese Published Unexamind Patent Application Nos. 150082 81 and 150083 81, and compound III is on the market and readily available.Results of acute toxicity test and antiasthmatic activity test of compound I are shown below.Acute toxicity test Groups of male dd strain mice each group consisting of five mice weighing 20 1 g are used. Compound I arre adminstered orally po 0.3 mg g or intrapritoneally ip 0.1 mg g . The MLD minimum lethl dose is calculated from the mortality for 7 days after the administration to obtain the results given in Table 1. Table 1EMI4.1 tb SEP MLD SEP mg Kg tb SEP Compound SEP po SEP ip tb Compound SEP 1 SEP 300 SEP 100 tb SEP SEP 2 SEP 300 SEP 100 tb SEP SEP 3 SEP 300 SEP 100 tb SEP SEP 4 SEP 300 SEP 100 tb SEP SEP 5 SEP 300 SEP 100 tb SEP SEP 6 SEP 300 SEP 100 tb SEP SEP 7 SEP 300 SEP 100 tb SEP SEP 8 SEP 300 SEP 100 tb SEP SEP 9 SEP 300 SEP 100 tb SEP SEP 10 SEP 300 SEP 100 tb SEP SEP 11 SEP 300 SEP 100 tb Typical examples compounds 1 11 of compound I are designated as follows.Compound Name of compound 1 2 methyl 11 2 dimethylamino ethyl thio 6,11 dihydrodibenz b,e oxopin 2 2 methyl 11 2 diethylamino ethly thio 6,11 dihydrodibenz b,e oxepin 3 4 methyl 11 2 diethylamino ethyl thio 6,11 dihydrodibenz b,e oxepin 4 2 chloro 11 2 diethylamino ethyl thio 6,11 dihydrodibenz b,e oxepin 5 2 ethyl 11 2 diethylamino ethyl thio 6,11 dihydrodibenz b,e oxepin 6 2 fluoro 11 2 diethylamino ethyl thio 6,11 dihydrodibenz b,e oxepin 7 2 ethyl 11 2 diethylamino ethyl thio 6,11 dihydrodibenz b,e oxepin 8 2 fluoro 11 2 diethylamino ethyl thio 6,11 dihydrodibenz b,e oxepin 9 2 ethyl 11 2 diethylamino ethyl thio 6,11 dihydrodibenz b,e oxepin 10 2 fluoro 11 2 diethylamino ethyl thio 6,11dihydrodibenz b,e oxepin 11 3 methyl 11 2 diethylamino ethyl thio 6,11 dihydrodibenz b,e oxepinAntisthamic acitivity test Experimetal method antiasthamic ativity is evaluatd according to passive cutaneous anaphylaxis response PCA response .Antiserum is collected from Wistar strain male rats weighing 200 to 250 5. PCA response is evaluated using Wistar strain male rats weighing 100 to 120 g. A preparation of antiserum One mg egg albumin is dissolved in 0.5 ml of pertussisdiphteria mixed veccine, and the rsulting solution is mixed with 0.5 ml of inomplet adjuvant.The resulting emulsion is used as antigen and administered to rats subcutaneously through the sole. In the 12th day after the admisitration, heads of the rats are cut to collected blood. Thus, antiserum is prpared. Upon evaluating antiasthamic activity, concentation of the antiserum is adhusted so that diameter of blue dyed portion is about 8 to about 10 mm. B PCA repsonse evaluatio of antiasthamic aitivity Six rats are use per group. 0.05 ml of the antiserum is intracutaneously administered to each of the previously back shaved rats to sensitive. After 17 hours, compound 1 or the solutions thereof pysiological salt solution or CMC solution are respectively administered and, after 60 minutes, an antigen mixture 1 Evans Blue physiological salt solution containing 0,2 egg albumin is injected intravenously in an amount of 0.5 ml 100 g to induce PCA response. After 30 minutes, rats are choked to death followed by cutting cut skin to measure the diameter of blue dyed portion. The results are evaluated by awarding a score accoriding to the diameter of blue dyed portion.Furthermore, ratics of the diameters to that od solvent physiological salt solution or CMC administered group are determined. Compounds snowing a depressing ration of 50 or more calculatd according to the following formula are concluded to show positive antiasthamic ativity.Also, the minimum effective dose MED is determined from the results with respective doses to compare the strngth of antiasthamic acitivity. Results thus obtained are tabulated in Table 2. EMI7.1 tb SEP Score SEP Blue dyed SEP Portion tb SEP SEP SEP mm tb SEP 5 SEP SEP 10 SEP SEP mm tb 4 SEP 8.0 SEP SEP 9.9 SEP tb 3 SEP 6.0 SEP SEP 7.9 SEP tb SEP 2 SEP 4.0 SEP SEP 5.9 tb SEP 1 SEP 2.0 SEP SEP 3.9 tb SEP 0 SEP 0 1.9 tb Depresslng ratio Diameter for solvent Diameter for test comp adminstrated group pound administered group x 10C Diameter for solvent administered group Table 2EMI7.2 SEP C SEP 25e tb SEP ound SEP nS SC tb SEP I SEP El SEP 9 tb SEP 2.5 SEP mpourd SEP 1 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 81 SEP 49 SEP 2.5 tb SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 1 SEP 190 SEP 52 SEP 40 SEP 20 SEP 1 SEP SEP 10.0 tb It SEP 3 SEP 52 SEP 14 SEP SEP SEP i SEP SEP SEP SEP I SEP iv . tb SEP 11 SEP 4 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 46 SEP 10 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 50.0 tb SEP .. SEP 5 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 56 SEP 36 SEP 1 SEP SEP 10.0 tb SEP 6 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 84 SEP 3 SEP SEP t SEP SEP 25.0 tb SEP 7 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 81 SEP 30 SEP SEP SEP 5.0 tb 8 SEP 8 SEP 8 SEP SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 33 SEP 23 SEP SEP SEP 1 SEP 25.0 tb SEP 9 SEP 9 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 67 SEP 22 SEP SEP SEP SEP it SEP 25.0 tb SEP SEP 10 SEP 73 SEP 11 SEP i SEP 11 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP SEP SEP 30.0 SEP 1 tb 11 SEP 61 SEP 61 SEP 61 SEP SEP 28 SEP o SEP SEP SEP 5C.D tb As is apparent rom Table 2, compound I has an antiasthmatic activity and is useful as an antiasthmatic agent. Compound I may be used in various pharmaceutical forms for administration. Pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention are prepared by uniformly mixing an effective amount of compound I as the active ingredient, in free form or as an acid addition salt, with a pharma ceutically acceptable carrier The carrier may take various forms depending on the pharmaceutical form suitable for administration. It is preferable that the pharmaceutical composition is in single administration form suitable for administration orally or by injection. To prepare the compositions of the present invention for oral administration, any useful pharmaceutical carrier may be used. For example, oral liquid preparations such as suspensions and syups can be prepared using water, sugar e.g. sucrose, sorbitol anc ructose , glycols e.g.polyethyleneglycol and propyleneglycol , oils e.g. sesame oil, olive, oil and soybean oil , antiseptics e.g an alkyl parahydroxybenzoate , flavours e.g. strwberry flavour an pepermint and the like. Powdes, pills, capsules and tablets can me prepared using excipients e.g. lactose, glucose, sucrose and mannitol , disintegrators e.g. strach and sodium alginate , lubricants e.g. magnesium stearate and tacl , binders e.g. polyvinyl alcohol, hydroxypropylcellulose acd gelatin , surfactants e.g. sucrose fatty acid ester , plasticizers e.g. glycerin and the like. Tablets and capsules are the most useful single oral administration forms because of th ase of administration. To make tablets and capsules solid pharmaceutical carriers are used. An injection solution can be prepared using a carrier consisting of salt solution, glucose solution and a mixture of salt and glucose solution. Althoug teh amount of the active ingrednet can be varied over a rather wice range, 1 20 mg kg day in cne dose or several divided doses is generally considered to be effective. Certain specific embodiments of the invention are illustrated by the following representative exemples. Example 1 In this example, 1.70 g of diethylaminoethylthiolhydrochloride and 2.45 g of 2 methyl 11 chloro 6 ,ll dihydrodibenz b,e oxepin are dissolved in 50 ml of methylene chloride, and the mixture is stirred or 2 hours. The reaction solution is concentrated under reduced pressure to distill off methylene chloride. Recrystallyzation of the residue from 50 ml of ethanol gives 3.25 g of pre crystals of hydrochloride of 2 methyl 11 2 diethylmino ethyl thio 6,11 dihydrodibenz b,e oxepin compound 2 in a yield of 86 . m.p. hydrochloride 202 205 C. IR absorption spectrum KBr tablet, cm 1 2920, 2670, 1495, 1260, 1230, 1015 elemental analysis 0 hydrochloride C E N Calcd. for C21H27NOS HCl 66.73 7.47 3.71 Found 66.52 7.23 3.90 The resulting hydrochloride is dissolved in a basic water, and then the solution is extraced It diethylether. the extracts is deshydrated and concentrated to obtain an oily ree base. NMR spectrum CDCl3, value, ppm 0.93 t, 6H , 2.22 s, 3H , 1.93 2.79 m,8H , 4.77 d, 1H , 4,89 s, 1H , 6.23 d, 1H , 6.52 7.45 m,7H Examples 2 to 11 Compounds 1 and 3 though 11 having the physico chemical properties identified in Tables 4 and 5 are obtained a similar manner to that in Example 1 except that the amuno ethylthiochloride and 11 chloro 6,11 dihydrobenz b,e oxepin shown in Table 3 are used instead of diethylaminoethylthiohydrochloride and 2 methyl 11 chloro 6,11dihydrodibenz b,e oxepin in Example 1. Table 3EMI10.1 tb SEP Aminoethyltriolhydrochloride tb Example SEP SEP Ws SEP NR SEP R SEP R SEP C1 SEP SEP Used SEP amount tb SEP R2 SEP R2 tb SEP 2 SEP met wyl SEP i SEP methyl SEP 1.4 tb SEP 3 SEP ethyl SEP et ivl SEP 1.0 tb SEP SEP eth SEP o 1 SEP l SEP 1.4 tb SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP SEP ethyl SEP 1.7 tb ethyl tb 6 SEP etn SEP e vl SEP 1.7 tb 1.4 SEP 7 SEP eth SEP . SEP m.e . yl SEP 1. SEP A tb 1 SEP methyl SEP SEP .. SEP riethy SEP 1.4 tb SEP 9 SEP 9 SEP i SEP sopropy SEP isopropyl SEP 2.0 tb SEP 1.0 SEP sopropyl SEP isss rDvl SEP 2.0 tb SEP SEP me . SEP 1 SEP metr SEP 2.5 tb SEP t tb Table 3 ... ... contd. EMI11.1 tb SEP Il cloro 6,11 dihydrodibenz b,e oxpFn tb SEP C1 tb SEP Example SEP y 01 23R1 SEP ou SEP l SEP tb SEP g tb SEP R1 tb SEP 1 tb SEP 2 SEP 2 methyl SEP 2.4 tb SEP 3 SEP 4 methyl SEP SEP 1.4 tb SEP 4 SEP 2 chloro SEP 1 SEP 2.2 tb SEP 5 SEP 2methyl SEP 1 SEP 2.6 tb SEP 6 SEP 2 f1ucro SEP SEP 2.5 tb SEP 7 SEP 2 1 SEP 2.6 tb SEP 8 SEP 2 fuoro SEP j SEP 2.5 tb 9 SEP 9 tb SEP 10 SEP i ro SEP SEP 2.5 tb SEP 11 SEP 3 me .v SEP SEP 5.2 tb Table 4 EMI12.1 SEP Obtained SEP Physicochemical SEP properties tb SEP amount SEP of tb Example SEP Compound SEP the SEP desired SEP Yield SEP m.p. SEP C SEP IR SEP absorption SEP spectrum tb SEP compound SEP SEP hydrochloride SEP hydrochloride, SEP KBr tb SEP g SEP tablet, SEP cm 1 tb 2 SEP Compound SEP 1 SEP 1.8 SEP 51 SEP 166 SEP SEP 169 SEP 2690, SEP 1500, SEP 1460, tb SEP 1260, SEP 1230, SEP 1015 tb 3 SEP 3 SEP 2.1 SEP 97 SEP 163 SEP SEP 165 SEP 2920, SEP 2580, SEP 2470, tb SEP 1470, SEP 1195, SEP 1010 tb 4 SEP SEP 4 SEP 3.1 SEP 91 SEP 165 SEP SEP 167 SEP 2920, SEP 2620, SEP 1485, tb SEP 1255, SEP 1230, SEP 1020 tb 5 SEP SEP 5 SEP 3.6 SEP 90 SEP 157 SEP SEP 160 SEP 2920, SEP 2670, SEP 1500, tb SEP 1255, SEP 1235, SEP 1010 tb 6 SEP SEP 6 SEP 3.6 SEP 94 SEP 134 SEP SEP 137 SEP 2920, SEP 2620, SEP 1495, tb SEP 1255, SEP 1210, SEP 1025 tb 7 SEP SEP 7 SEP 2.9 SEP 80 SEP 149 SEP SEP 151 SEP 2920, SEP 1505, SEP 1260, tb SEP 1230, SEP 1125, SEP 1020 tb 8 SEP SEP 8 SEP 3.2 SEP 90 SEP 169 SEP SEP 172 SEP 2920, SEP 2720, SEP 1500, tb SEP 1260, SEP 1230, SEP 1025 tb SEP hydrochloride SEP being SEP Oily SEP free SEP base, tb SEP unable SEP to SEP crystal SEP NaCl SEP cell tb 9 SEP SEP 9 SEP 3.8 SEP 98 SEP lize, SEP and SEP fumarate tb SEP being SEP too SEP hygro SEP 2970, SEP 1500, SEP 1260, tb SEP scopic SEP to SEP measure SEP 1230, SEP 1120, SEP 1020 tb SEP Oily SEP free SEP base, tb SEP NaCl SEP cell tb 10 SEP SEP 10 SEP 3.7 SEP 98 tb SEP 2970, SEP 1500, SEP 1260, tb SEP 1225, SEP 1160, SEP 1020 tb 11 SEP SEP 11 SEP 6.1 SEP 98 SEP 155 SEP SEP 158 SEP 2920, SEP 2660, SEP 1620, tb SEP 1460, SEP 1260, SEP 1125 tb Table 5EMI13.1 tb SEP Example SEP NMR SEP spectrum SEP Elemental SEP analysis tb SEP CDCl3, SEP SEP SEP ppm SEP Calcd. SEP Found SEP tb SEP Oily SEP free SEP base SEP C19H23NOS HCl tb SEP 2.14 s,6H , SEP 2.23 s,3H SEP C SEP 65.22 SEP 65.20 tb SEP 2 SEP 1.97 2.77 m,4H , SEP 4.77 SEP d,1H , SEP H SEP 6.91 SEP 6.84 tb SEP 4.90 SEP s,1H , SEP 6.22 d, SEP 1H , tb SEP 6.59 7.39 m,7H SEP N SEP 4.00 SEP 3.89 tb SEP Hydrochloride SEP C21H27NOS HCl tb SEP 1.22 t,6H , SEP 2.20 s,3H , SEP C SEP 66.73 SEP 66.59 tb 3 SEP 2.6 3.4 m,9H , SEP 4.89 d,1H SEP H SEP 7.47 SEP 7.49 tb SEP 5.10 s,1H , SEP 6.00 d,1H , tb SEP 6.6 7.5 m,7H SEP N SEP 3.71 SEP 3.58 tb SEP 1.27 t,6H , SEP 2.6 3.3 m,9H , SEP C SEP 60.30 SEP 60.03 tb 4 SEP 4.83 d,1H , SEP 5.13 s,1H , tb SEP 6.17 d,1H , SEP 6.6 .6 m 9H SEP H SEP 6.32 SEP 6.17 tb SEP 6.1 SEP 2 , SEP , SEP 6.6 7. SEP 6 n SEP 7.. SEP N SEP 3.52 SEP 3.66 SEP tb Hydrochloride SEP C22H29NOS HCl tb SEP 0.9 1.6 m,9H , SEP 2.3 3.5 m, SEP C SEP 67.41 SEP 67.37 tb SEP 5 SEP 10H , SEP 4.83 SEP d,1H , SEP 5.09 s, SEP H SEP 7.71 SEP 7.80 tb SEP 1H , SEP 6.07 d,1H , SEP 6.6 7.6 tb SEP m,7H , SEP 11.9 br,1H SEP N SEP 3.57 SEP 3.39 tb SEP Hydrochloride SEP C20H24FNOS HCl tb SEP 1.27 t,6H , SEP 2.5 3.5 br,8H , SEP C SEP 62.90 SEP 63.01 tb SEP 6 SEP 4.82 d,1H , SEP 5.17 s,1H , SEP H SEP 6.60 SEP 6.47 tb SEP 6.03 d,1H , SEP 6.7 7.6 m,7H , tb SEP 11.8 br,1H SEP N SEP 3.67 SEP 3.51 tb SEP Hydrochloride, SEP CDCl3 SEP SEP d6DMSO SEP C20H25NOS HCl tb SEP 1.17 t,3H , SEP 2.4 3.6 m,13H , SEP C SEP 66.00 SEP 66.05 tb SEP 7 SEP 4.87 d,1H , SEP 5.25 s,1H , SEP H SEP 7.20 SEP 6.98 tb SEP 6.03 d,1H , SEP 6.6 7.6 m,7H SEP N SEP 3.85 SEP 3.69 tb SEP Hydrochloride, SEP CDCl3 SEP SEP d6DMSO SEP C18H20NOS HCl tb SEP 2.4 3.6 m,11H , SEP 4.80 d,1H , SEP C SEP 61.09 SEP 61.32 tb SEP 8 SEP 5.29 s,1H , SEP 5.97 d,1H , SEP H SEP 5.98 SEP 6.09 tb SEP 6.7 7.6 SEP m,7H SEP N SEP 3.96 SEP 4.26 tb Table 5 ... ,,, contd. EMI14.1 tb SEP Example SEP NMR SEP spectrum SEP Elemental SEP analysis tb SEP CDCl3, SEP SEP SEP ppm SEP Calcd. SEP Found SEP tb SEP Oily SEP free SEP base SEP C24H33NOS tb SEP 0.91 d,12H , SEP 1.20 t,3H , SEP C SEP 75.15 SEP 75.02 tb SEP 9 SEP 2.3 3.2 m,8H , SEP 4.80 d,1H , SEP H SEP 8.67 SEP 8.58 tb SEP 4.91 s,1H , SEP 6.29 d,1H , tb 6.7 7.5 m,7H SEP N SEP 3.65 SEP 3.77 tb SEP Oily SEP free SEP base SEP C22H28FNOS tb SEP 0.93 d,12H , SEP 2.47 s,4H , SEP C SEP 70.74 SEP 70.49 tb SEP 10 SEP 2.7 3.2 m,2H , SEP 4.80 d,1H , SEP H SEP 7.56 SEP 7.31 tb SEP 4.85 s,1H , SEP 6.22 d,1H , tb SEP 6.7 7.5 m,7H SEP N SEP 3.75 SEP 3.84 tb Hydrochloride, SEP CDCl3 SEP SEP d6DMSO SEP C24H33NOS tb SEP 2.22 s,3H , SEP 2.4 3.3 m,11H , SEP C SEP 65.22 SEP 55.08 tb SEP 11 SEP 4.82 d,1H , SEP 5.23 s,1H , SEP H SEP 6.91 SEP 7.03 tb SEP 6.12 d,1H , SEP 6.5 7.6 m,7H , SEP N SEP 4.00 SEP 3.88 tb Example 12 Preparation of tablet A tablet comprising the following components is prepared in a conventional manner. Component Hydrochloride of compound 1 30 mg Lactose 60 mg Potato starch 30 mg Polyvinyl alcohol 2 mg Magnesium stearate 1 mg Tar pigment q.s. Example 13 Preparation of powder A powder comprising the following components is prepared in a conventional manner. Component Hydrochloride of compound 2 30 mg Lactose 270 mgExample 14 Preparation of syrup A syrup comprising the following components is prepared in a conventional manner.Component Hydrochloride of compound 7 300 mg Sucrose 40 g Methyl para hydroxybenzoate 40 mg Propyl para hydroxybenzoate 10 mg Strawberry flavour 0.1 ccWater is added to the above components until the total volume is 100 cc.