# Stacking element.

## Abstract
An element for stacking frames formed by profiles mainly shaped in the form of an L, wherein said element comprises a plate shaped web 1 provided with two flanges 2, 3 normal thereto and lying one on each side of said web, the flanges being an an angle α to one another correspond ing with the angle of the frame and provided with at least one rib 4, 5 parallel to and at a distance a from a flange, said distance a corresponding to the thickness c of an limb of the L shaped profile to be stacked.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. An element for stacking frames of profiles having mainly the shape of an L characterized by a plate shaped web provided with two flanges normal thereto and extending one on each side thereof, said flanges being at an angle to one another which corresponds with the angle of the frame and provided with at least one rib parallel to and at a distance from a flange, said distance corresponding to the thickness of a limb of the L shaped profile. 2. An element claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the standing rim of a flange is located at that distance from the prolongation of the other flange which corresponds to at least the width of the other limb of theL shaped profile. 3. An elements claimed in claim 1 or 2, characterized in that a second rib is provided for the other flange. 4. An element as claimed in claims T to 3, characterized in that the free rim of each rib extending parallel to the plate shaped web is inclined towards the flange.

## Description
Stacking elementStacking element The invention relates to an element for stacking frames formed by profiles mainly shaped in the form of an L. The invention has for its object to provide a cheap element that can be arranged in the corners of the frames so that the frames can be easily stacked without the risk of shifting or damage. The frames may be or not be provided with a panel clamped therein. The element according to the invention is distinguished by a plate shaped, web provided with two flanges normal thereto and lying one Qn each side of said web, the flanges being at an angle to one another corresponding with the angle of the frame and provided with at least one rib parallel to and at a distance from a flange, said distance corresponding to the thickness of a limb of the L shaped profile. Such an element is comparatively small and can be readily slipped onto one limb of the L shaped profile near the corner of the frame. On both sides of the corner the outer rim of the frame is protected by the flanges, whilst the stacked frames do not touch one another owing to the plate shaped web arranged between them. In this manner the frames are protected to the optimum with the aid of only one element arranged on one corner of a frame. In order to permit of stacking frames of different sizes it is preferred to dispose the standing rim of a flange at that distance from the prolongation of the other flange which corresponds to at least the width of the other limb of the L shaped profile. It is thus ensured that the web is in direct contact with a continuous frame rim of the neighbouring frame. In order to establish a sufficient firm connection it is preferred to provide a second rib similar to the first rib opposite the other flange. In order to establish a clamping connection between the element and the frame in accordance with the invention the free rim of each rib extending parallel to the web is inclined towards the flange. The invention will be described more fully with reference to an embodiment. The drawings shows in Fig. 1 a perspective view of an element embodying the invention, Fig. 2 a perspective view of the inner corner of stacked frames, Fig. 3 a complete stack of frames provided with stacking elements, Fig. 4 a stack formed by frames of unequal .sizes. Reference numeral 1 designates the plateshaped web of the stacking element provided with two flanges 2 and 3. The flanges are normal to the web plate 1 and are at an angle CX by their prolongations. This angle ode corresponds with the angle of the frames, usually an angle of 90 . The flanges extend one on each side of the plate shaped web 1, whilst the upper part of fig. 1 is larger than the lower part of the flanges. At an distance a from each flange 2, 3 is provided a rib 4, 5. These ribs extend parallel to the associated flange. The free rim 6 extending parallel to the web 1 is slightly inclined towards the associated flange so that a smaller distance b from the flange is obtained. The frames to be stacked are each mainly formed by L shaped frame profiles 7, one limb 7 forming the outer rim of the frame and the other limb 7 forming the front face of the frame. The thickness of the limb 7 is designated by c, it being noted for completeness sake that the limb 7 has two open channels 8 and 9 for fastening the profiles to one another to fasten panels P in the frame by means of fastening means not lying within the scope of this invention. The panels P may be formed in order of succession by a glass plate, a picture and a back plate. The width of the limb 7 is designated by d. Each stacking element can be simply arranged in place by pressing the plate shaped web 1 against the underside of the frame, the ribs 4, 5 getting on the inner side of the corner of the frame and the flanges 2, 3 on the outer side thereof. The distance a corresponds to the thickness c of the limb 7 . Since the distance b is smaller than a, the element will automatically clamp tight in the corner. The frames can be stacked as shown in figs. 2 and 3, in which case the outer flanges 2, 3 grip around the outer side of each frame by the downwardly extending part. In this way a shift of frames of the same size is prevented in all directions. The frames may be bound together, for example, by means of stretching strips 10. From fig. 3 it is apparent that the frames are lying at a distance from one another, said distance being equal to the thickness of the plate shaped web 1. The outer side of the stack of frames is protected near the corners by the superjacent flanges 2, 3. Fig. 4 illustrates a possibility of stacking frames of unequal sizes. For this purpose it is necessary for the standing rims of ons flange 11 to be at a distance e from the prolongation of the other flange. This distance e corresponds to the width d of the limb 7 of each frame profile.Thanks to this precaution the stacked frame profiles are prevented from relatively shifting in place even if the frame does not have the same dimensions. The invention is not limited to the embodiment described above is is noted , for example, that one rib 4 or one rib 5 may be sufficient. The centering effect is maintained by the flanges 2 and 3, whilst one rib is sufficient to hold to elements in the corners.