# 2 Phenoxyalkyl imidazoles as ectoparasiticides and anthelmintics.

## Abstract
2 Phenoxyalkyl imidazoles of the formula

## Claims
CLAIMS FOR BE, CH, DE, FR, GB, IT, LI, LU, NL an 1. A compound of the general formula EMI19.1 wherein R represents up to 5 optional substituents, n being 0 or an integer of from 1 to 5 and each R is independently hydrogen, halo or a C1 C4 alkyl, C1 C4 alkoxy or perfluoroalkyl group or two adjacent R groups taken together may be CR2 3 or CH2 4 m is O, 1 or 2 and R1 is hydrogen or a C1 C6 alkyl group and the physiologically acceptable acid addition salts thereof, with the proviso that R n may not be hydrogen, mono or 2,4 or 3,4 di chloro, 4 methoxy or 2,4 dimethyl when X is oxygen, m is O and R1 is hydrogen. 2. A compound as claimed in claim 1 wherein R is halo or C C alkyl. 3. A compound as claimed in claim 2 wherein R n is 2,3 dimethyl. 4. A compound as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein R1 is hydrogen or methyl and m is O. 5. A compound as claimed in claim 5 wherein said compound is 2 2,3 dimethylphenoxymethyl imidazole or 2 1 2,3 dimethyl phenoxy ethyl imidazole. 6. An ectoparasiticidal, especially acaricidal, or anthelmintic composition, which comprises a compound of the formula I as claimed in claim 1 without proviso or in any one of claims 2 to 5, or a physiologically acceptable acid addition salt thereof, together with a diluent or carrier. 7. A composition as claimed in claim 6, which is in the form of an emulsifiable concentrate, dust, dispersible powder, injectable formulation, prolonged release bolus, or aqueous emulsion. 8. A compound of the formula I or a physiologically acceptable acid addition salt thereof as claimed in claim 1 without proviso or in any one cf claims 2 to 5, or a composition thereof as claimed in claim 6 or claim 7 for use in treating an animal, especially sheep or cattle, to combat ectoparasite, especially acaricide, and helminth infestations. 9. An animal feed containing a compound of the formula I, or a physiologically acceptable acid addition salt thereof, as claimed in claim 1 without proviso or in any one of claims 2 to 5. 10. A process for preparing a compound of the formula I as claimed in claim 1 with proviso characterised by reacting a compound of the formula EMI21.1 wherein R, R1, n and m are as defined in claim 1 and R3 is a C1 C4 alkyl group with aqueous acid and isolating the compound of formula I and, if desired, preparing a pysiologically acceptable acid addition salt thereof. 11. A method of combatting ectoparasite infestations in an animal, especially a sheep or cattle, which comprises applying an effective amount of a compound of the formula I , or a physiologically acceptable acid addition salt thereof, as claimed in claim 1, without proviso, or in any one of claims 2 to 5, to the exterior of the animal. CLAIMS FOR AUSTRIA 1. A process for preparing an ectoparasiticidal, especially aca icidal, or anthelmintic composition, characterised by mixing a compound of the formula EMI22.1 wherein R n represents up to 5 optional substituents, n being 0 or an integer of from 1 to 5 and each R is independently hydrogen, halo or a C C alkyl, C C alkoxy or perfluoroalkyl group or two adjacent R groups taken together may be CH2 3 or CR2 4 m is O, 1 or 2 and RI is hydrogen or a C1 C6 alkyl group or a physiologically acceptable acid addition salt thereof with a diluent or carrier. 2. A process for preparing a compound of the formula I as defined in claim 1 or a physiologically acceptable acid addition salt thereof, with the provide that Rn may not be hydrogen, mono or 2,4 or 3,4 di chloro, 4 methoxy or 2,4 dimethyl when m is 0 and R1 is hydrogen, characterised by reacting a compound of the formula EMI23.1 wherein R, R1, n and m are as defined in claim 1 and R3 is a C C alkyl group, with aqueous acid and isolating the compound of formula I and, if desired preparing a physiologically acceptable acid addition salt thereof. 3. A process as claimed in claim 2 wherein the reaction is performed using aqueous hydrochloric acid at 90 1000C. 4. A process according to claim 2 or claim 3 characterised in that R is halo or C1 C4 alkyl. 5. A process according to claim 4 characterised in that R n is 2,3 dimethyl, R1 is hydrogen or methyl and m is 0.

## Description
This invention relates to a series of imidazole derivatives having ectoparasiticidal activity and, in particular, to certain 2 phenoxyalkyl imidazoles having acaricidal, insecticidal and miticidal activity. Eggs are laid by adult female acarids on animal skins, and the larvae produced tend to burrow into the skins of the afflicted animals and thereby spoil the state of the skins, with the consequence, for example, that cattle hides and sheep skins and fleece intended for the manufacture of leather, sheepskin and woollen goods, respectively, are reduced in quality. Furthermore, the general state of health and the quality of the flesh of afflicted animals may be detrimentally affected. Certain insect larvae, for example, the larvae of blowflies which tend to live in sheep skin, are capable of bringing premature death to the animal if present in sufficient abundance. The compounds of the invention are acaricides with good expellency properties, particularly against cattle ticks, and also cattle and sheep miticides. The compounds are also active against blowfly larvae and against the adult and larval stages of nuisance flies which can cause severe distress to cattle. Certain of the compounds also have anthelmintic activity, as shown by their activity against Caenorhabditis elegant. European patent application no. 11596 describes certain 2 oL phenoxyalkyl imidazoline derivatives as miticides useful against plant and animal parasites. However, the imidazoline derivatives suffer from the disadvantage that they tend to be unstable in aqueous solution, particularly in the presence of traces of acids or bases. The imidazole derivatives of the present invention are potent antiparasitic agents having good stability in aqueous solutions which enables them to be used more advantageously and conveniently, for example, in aqueous dips and sprays. Certain 2 aryloxymethylimidazoles of formula I as herein defined, wherein m is 0 and R1 is H, within the scope of the present invention, are disclosed in J. Heterocyclic Chemistry, 1973, 10, 391. The compounds were prepared and tested as anorectic agents and there is no suggestion that the compounds could have any anti parasitic or insecticidal properties. Thus, according to the present invention there are provided compounds of the general formula EMI2.1 wherein R represents up to 5 optional substituents, n being 0 or an integer of from l to 5 and each R is independently hydrogen, halo or a C1 C4 alkyl, C1 C4 alkoxy or perfluoroalkyl group or two adjacent R groups taken together may be CH2 3 or CH2 4 m is 0, 1 or 2 and R1 is hydrogen or a C1 C6 alkyl group and the physiologically acceptable acid addition salts thereof, with the proviso that R n may not be hydrogen, mono or 2,4 or 3,4 di chloro, 4 methoxy or 2,4 dimethyl when m is 0 and R1 is hydrogen. Halo, as used herein, means fluoro, chloro, bromo or iodo.Alkyl and alkoxy groups of 3 or more carbon atoms may be straight or branched chain. Physiologically acceptable acid addition salts include those salts which are commonly used in accordance with normal veterinary practice and which are non irritant when applied externally to an animal and not unduly toxic if ingested in small amounts. The invention also includes ectoparasiticidal and anthelmintic compositions, including concentrates, comprising a compound of the formula I, without proviso, or a physiologically acceptable acid addition salt thereof, together with a diluent or carrier. Thus, as well as including compositions of the novel compounds of formula I, the invention includes ectoparasiticidal and anthelmintic compositions containing a known compound of the formula I and a diluent or carrier, when the composition is in a form not disclosed in the Journal of Heterocyclic Chemistry reference i.e. when it is other than a 0.5 percent methyl cellulose solution. The invention further includes a compound of the formula I, without proviso, or a physiologically acceptable acid addition salt thereof, for use in treating an animal to combat ectoparasite and helminth infestations. The preferred substituent groups R are halogen or lower alkyl, particularly where R I is 2,3 dimethyl. R1 is preferably hydrogen or methyl and m is preferably 0. Particularly preferred individual compounds include 2 2,3 dimethylphenoxymethyl imidazole and 2 1 2,3 dimethyl phenoxy ethyl3imidezole. The compounds of the formula I are prepared according to the following reaction scheme wherein Z is CN or CONH2 R, R , n and m are as previously defined and R2 and R3 are C1 C4 alkyl groups.EMI4.1 EMI5.1 In the case of the nitriles of formula II wherein Z in CN, the conversion to the intermediate imidate ester III is achieved by reaction with gaseous hydrogen chloride and a C C lower alkanol of formula R2OH e.g. ethanol , in a reaction inert organic solvent e.g. dichloromethane. In a typical procedure the nitrile and alkanol in equimolar amounts are dissolved in dichloromethane and the solution cooled and saturated with hydrogen chloride gas. After several hours at 0 C the solvent is evaporated and the intermediate imidate ester III isolated as its hydrochloride salt. When starting from an amide of formula II wherein Z is CONH2, the conversion to the imidate ester is achieved using trialkyloxonium tetrafluoroborate, e.g. trimethyloxonium tetrafluoroborate Meerwein s reagent . The reagents, in equimolar amounts, are generally added to a reaction inert organic solvent, e.g. dichloromethane, and allowed to react at room temperature. A period of 24 hours is generally sufficient, at which time the solvent is removed to give the imidate ester III as its tetrafluoroborate salt. The method starting with a nitrile of formula II wherein Z is CN is generally preferable and is especially applicable to those compounds wherein R1 is hydrogen or methyl. Compounds wherein R1 is a C2 to C6 alkyl group are best prepared via the amides of formula II wherein Z is CONlH2. In either case the resulting intermediate imidate ester of formula E is reacted directly with an aminoacetaldehyde di lower alkyl acetal of formula H2NCH2CE oR3 2 where R3 is a C1 C4 alkyl group, to give the intermediate IV . The reaction is conveniently performed in a lower alkanol solvent, the groups R2, R3 and the alkyl content of the solvent ideally being the same. Thus the reaction may be achieved using aminoacetaldehyde diethylacetal in ethanol. The acetal and the imidate ester are generally used in equimolar amounts and the reaction is usually substantially complete within a period of 48 hours at room temperature. The intermediate IV is not usually isolated, the cyclisation step to give the imidazole of formula I being readily achieved by the addition of aqueous acid. Thus after removal of the solvent the crude compound of formula IV is treated with hot aqueous acid, e.g. hydrochloric acid, for a period of 30 minutes or so at 90 1000C. The product is finally worked up in a conventional manner, e.g. by neutralising the acidic solution, and isolating the crude product by filtration or, if soluble, by solvent extraction. Further purification can be performed, if desired, for example by crystallization or by chromatography. The product may either be isolated as the free base or, by adding an appropriate acid, as an acid addition salt. The starting materials of formula II are generally known compounds which may be prepared by conventional methods. For example the nitriles of formula II may be prepared from a phenol by reaction with a o chloroalkylnitrile according to the method of Djerassi and Scholz, J. Amer. Chem. Soc., 1947, 69, 1690. The amides are similarly prepared by conventional procedures, for example by reaction of a phenol with an ethyl ct bromoalkanoate followed by conversion of the ester to the amide by a conventional reaction with concentrated ammonia solution. Compounds where RI is other than hydrogen can exist in optically active isomeric forms and the invention includes the separated isomers as well as racemic mixtures thereof. The antiparasitic and insecticidal properties of the compounds of the invention are measured by the following tests In one test, to assess acaricidal activity, five freshly collected, fully engorged Boophilus microplus female ticks are used for each acaricidal compound. Using a micro pipette 10 micro litres of a solution containing 10 micro grams of the acaricidal compound in ethanol or acetone, is applied to the dorsal surface of each of the ticks. The treated ticks are placed in weighed 1 x 2 glass vials, weighed and stored at 26 C and 80X relative humidity in plastic boxes for two weeks. The ticks are then removed from the vials and the vials weighed to give the weight of eggs laid by the ticks. Any reduction in the egg laying of the treated ticks is calculated as a percentage of the eggs laid by untreated control ticks. The eggs are returned to the incubator for a further 3 weeks after which time the percentage of eggs hatching is estimated.The percentage effect is calculated as the overall reduction in the anticipated reproduction of the ticks using the weight of eggs laid and the percentage of eggs hatching. The test may be repeated using smaller amounts of the acaricidal compound. In another test, using a pipette 0.5 ml of a solution containing 0.5 mg of the acaricidal compound in ethanol or acetone is spread evenly on to a filter paper 8 cm x 6.25 cm 50 sq. c.m. to give a dosage of 100 mg mê. The treated paper is allowed to dry at room temperature, folded with the treated surface ir.side and two short edges sealed with a crimping machine. The open ended envelope is placed in a llb Kilner jar containing damp cotton wool in a plastic pot and stored in an incubator at 260C for 24 hours. 20 50 Boophilus microplus larvae, which had hatched 8 14 days previously, are placed in the envelope using a small spatula. The open end is then crimped to form a sealed packet. The treated paper containing the larvae is returned to the Kilner jar and kept for E further 48 hours in the incubator. 20 50 larvae are placed similarly in an untreated paper envelope to act as controls. At the end of the 48 hour test period the mortality is noted and recorded as a percentage after correction for any mortality among tte untreated control ticks. The test may be repeated using smaller amounts of the acaricidal compound Activity against Haemaphysalis longicornus nymphs may be measured in a similar manner to the above larvae test. Larvicidal properties are investigated by maintaining test and control groups of Lucilia cuprina blowfly larvae in separate test tubes, each containing filter paper partially soaked in calf serum serving as food and plugged with cotton wool. The filter paper in the test tube containing the test larvae is additionally impregnated with the compound under investigation to the extent of a 100 mg mê deposition. Both test tubes are stored with the top part only in a strong light so as to induce the larvae to stay in the lower part of the tubes in contact with the filter paper through exploitaticn of their aversion to light. Mortality is noted and recorde as a corrected percentage. The finding of substantial numbers of test larvae on the illuminated plug suggests that the test compound has marked repellant properties. In addition t percentage effectiveness figures, LD90 results can be obtained fre dose response measurements using any of the afore described tests. In anthelmintic testing, the compounds are screened againstCaenorhabditis elegans worms in vitro. The assay is based upon the published work of Simpkin and Coles, J. Chem. Tech. andBiotechnol. 31, 66 69, 1981 . In mite testing, two species of mites are used. These areDermanyssus gallinae Acarina, Mesostigmata , the poultry red mite, and Psoroptes cuniculi Acarina, Astigmata , the rabbit ear mite. The test procedure, using 30 50 mites, is identical to that described for Boophilus microplus larvae above. The compositions of the invention include not only compositions in a suitable form for application but concentrated primary compositions which may be supplied to the user and which require dilution with a suitable quantity of water or other diluent prior to application. Typical compositions of the invention for use in treating ectoparasitic infections of animals such as sheep and cattle include, for example, dusting powders, dispersible powders, dips, sprays, dispersions, emulsions and emulsifiable concentrates. A dust may be made by mixing the appropriate amount of the finely divided active compound with a solid pulverulent diluent or carrier such as talc, clay, calcite, pyrophyllite, diatomaceous earth, walnut shell flour, silica gel, hydrated alumina, or calcium silicate. As an alternative method of preparation, the diluent or carrier is mixed with a solution of the active compound in a volatile organic solvent such as toluene, the solvent being subsequently removed by evaporation. Typically, the active compound will be present in the dust in an amount of from 0.25 to about 4 by weight. Dispersible powders of special value for spray applications may be made by adding a suitable wetting and dispersing agent to the active compound, or to a dust containing the active compound, so that a stable aqueous dispersion of the active compound is formed on mixing the powder with water. The dispersible powders preferably contain from about 25 to 75 by weight of the active ingredient. Emulsifiable concentrates comprise a solution of the active compound in a substantially water immiscible non toxic organic solvent containing an emulsifying agent. Suitable solvents include, for example, toluene, xylene, petroleum oil, and alkylated naphthalenes. Suitable emulsifiers, which can be cationic, anionic or non ionic are well known to those skilled in the art, and include ordinary soaps anionic , lauryl pyridinium chloride cationic and polyoxethylene lauryl ethers non ionic . Preferably, the concentrate will contain 5 75 gms. of the active compound per 100 ml. of solution. The concentrates may be diluted with water prior to use to give a typical concentration of the active compound in the aqueous medium of from about 0.01 to about 0.1 g 100 ml. or approximately 100 to 1000 p.p.m. The volatile solvents evaporate after application to the animal to leave a deposit of the active ingredient. For treatment of helminth infections the compounds are most readily administered by incorporation into animal feeds, although administration in the form of a prolonged release bolus, implant or injection is also possible. For the control of nuisance flies breeding in dung, the compounds may also be incorporated into animal feeds. Thus the invention includes an animal feed or concentrate there for including a compound of the formula I as hereinbefore defined without proviso. The compositions of the invention may also contain a pesticide, fungicide, additional acaricide or the like and they may be administered alone or in combination with conventional ectoparasiticidal agents such as organophosphates, carbamates, organochlorines, pyrethroids, formamidines, triazapentadienes, triazinethiones or thioureas. The invention is further illustrated by the followingExamples Nuclear magnetic resonance spectral date n.m.r. where given were measured at 60 MRz for solutions in deuterochloroform CDCl3 and peak positions are given in p.p.m. downfield from tetramethylsilane with the following abreviations for peak shapes b, broad s, singlet d, doublet t, triplet q, quarter and m, multiplex. EXAMPLE 1 2 2,3 Dimethylphenoxymethyl imidazole 2,3 Dimethylphenoxyacetonitrile 150 g, 0.93 mole was dissolved in a mixture of dry dichloromethane 1000 ml and dry ethanol 42.8 g, 0.93 mole . The solution was cooled to 100C and saturated with hydrogen chloride gas. After stirring at 0 C for two hours the dichloromethane was removed under reduced pressure and dry diethyl ether 100 ml added. The resulting slurry was filtered and the residue washed with dry diethyl ether 500 ml and dried under vacuum for one hour to give the intermediate imidate ester hydrochloride 212 g which was used without further purification. The imidate ester hydrochloride 150 g, 0.618 mole was dissolved in absolute ethanol 2000 ml at room temperature and aminoacetaldehyde diethylacetal 82.4 g, 0.618 mole added. The mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature and the solvent removed under reduced pressure. The residue was taken up with hot 6N hydrochloric acid 200 ml and the solution maintained at 900C for thirty minutes. The resulting mixture was diluted with water 800 ml and basified with aqueous sodium hydroxide solution 60 g in 150 ml . The resulting precipitate was stirred for 30 minutes to facilitate granulation and then collected by filtration. The residue was dissolved in a mixture of dichloromethane 2000 ml and methanol 200 ml . The aqueous layer was separated and the solution filtered to remove insolubles.The filtrate was stirred at reflux temperature with charcoal and magnesium sulphate, and the solution then filtered and the solvent evaporated to give the crude product 112 g . The crude product was dissolved in ethyl acetate 1000 ml at reflux, the volume was then reduced to 400 ml and mixture set aside to crystallize at 0 100C. The crystalline precipitate was collected by filtration and dried under vacuum to give the title product 71 g, 56 m.p. 144 145 C. Analysis Z Found C,70.44 H,7.02 N,13.66. C12H14N20 Requires C,71.26 H,6.98 N,13.85. EXAMPLES 2 15 The following phenoxyalkylimidazoles of formula I were prepared by the general method of Example 1, starting with the appropriate nitrile EMI15.1 Example SEP R n SEP m SEP RÚ SEP m.p. C SEP Analysis SEP SEP or SEP n.m.r. tb No. SEP theoretical SEP in SEP brackets tb SEP C SEP H SEP N tb SEP 2 SEP H SEP 0 SEP H SEP 103 105 SEP 5.55 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 6.5 7.7 SEP m SEP with SEP s SEP at SEP tb SEP 7.5, SEP 9H tb SEP 3 SEP 4 Cl SEP 0 SEP H SEP 112 113 SEP 57.14 SEP 4.33 SEP 13.19 tb SEP 57.51 SEP 4.30 SEP 13.42 tb SEP 4 SEP 4 OCH3 SEP 0 SEP H SEP 105 109 SEP 64.35 SEP 5.95 SEP 13.66 tb SEP 64.69 SEP 5.92 SEP 13.72 tb SEP 5 SEP 2 CH3 SEP 0 SEP H SEP 82 84 SEP 70.84 SEP 6.98 SEP 13.66 tb SEP 71.26 SEP 6.98 SEP 13.85 tb SEP 6 SEP 2,4 CH3 SEP 0 SEP H SEP 121 122 SEP 2.2 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 2.25 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 5.1 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 6.6. 7.3 SEP m SEP with SEP s SEP at SEP 7, SEP 5H , SEP 7.7 SEP s tb SEP broad , SEP 1H tb SEP 7 SEP 2,5 CH3 SEP 0 SEP H SEP 136 138 SEP 71.11 SEP 6.97 SEP 13.58 tb SEP 71.26 SEP 6.98 SEP 13.85 tb SEP 8 SEP 2,6 CH3 SEP 0 SEP H SEP 140 142 SEP 71.00 SEP 7.07 SEP 13.94 tb SEP 71.26 SEP 6.98 SEP 13.85 tb SEP 9 SEP 2,3 Cl SEP 0 SEP H SEP 138 139 SEP 49.06 SEP 3.41 SEP 11.43 tb SEP 49.40 SEP 3.32 SEP 11.52 tb EMI16.1 Example SEP R n SEP m SEP RÚ SEP m.p. C SEP Analysis SEP SEP or SEP n.m.r. tb No. SEP theoretical SEP in SEP brackets tb SEP C SEP H SEP N tb 10 SEP 2,3 CH2 4 SEP 0 SEP H SEP 148 151 SEP 73.13 SEP 7.20 SEP 11.95 tb SEP 73.65 SEP 7.06 SEP 12.27 tb 11 SEP 2,3 CH3 SEP 1 SEP H SEP 100 101 SEP m e SEP 217 SEP M 1 , SEP 216 SEP M , SEP 95 SEP M C8H9O tb 12 SEP 2,3 CH3 SEP 2 SEP H SEP 109 110 SEP 2.0 2.5 SEP m SEP with SEP s SEP at SEP 2.1 SEP and SEP s SEP at SEP 2.25, tb SEP 8H , SEP 2.95 SEP t, SEP J 6Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 3.95 SEP t, SEP J 6Hz, tb SEP 2H , SEP 6.5 7.3 SEP m SEP with SEP s SEP at SEP 6.9, SEP 5H , SEP 8.6 tb SEP s SEP broad , SEP 1H tb 13 SEP 2,3 CH3 SEP 0 SEP CH3 SEP 171 173 SEP 61.73 SEP 6.84 SEP 10.99 tb SEP 61.78 SEP 6.78 SEP 11.08 tb 14 SEP 2,3,6 CH3 SEP 0 SEP CH3 SEP 180 182 SEP 72.72 SEP 7.90 SEP 12.15 tb SEP 73.01 SEP 7.88 SEP 12.70 tb 15 SEP 3,5 CH3 SEP 0 SEP H SEP 134 135 SEP 70.88 SEP 6.92 SEP 13.98 tb SEP 71.26 SEP 6.98 SEP 13.85 tb Hydrochloride Salt EXAMPLE 16 2 1 2 ,3 Dimethylphenoxy propyl imidazole Trimethyloxonium tetrafluoroborate 3.1 g, 0.21 mole was added to a solution of l 2,3 dimethylphenoxy butyramide 4.14 g, 0.02 mole in anhydrous dichloromethane 250 ml , and the mixture was stirred at room temperature under an atmosphere of dry nitrogen for 24 hours.The dichloromethane was removed under vacuum and the residue taken up in anhydrous ethanol 100 ml .Aminoacetaldehyde diethyl acetal 2.66 g, 0.02 mole was added and the mixture was stirred at room temperature under an atmosphere of dry nitrogen for 48 hours. The solution was concentrated under vacuum to a volume of approximately 15 mls, added to aqueous hydrochloric acid 100 ml, 5N and the solution maintained at around 90 C on a steam bath for 30 minutes. The cooled solution was washed with diethyl ether 3 x 30 ml , and the aqueous layer was then adjusted to pH12 with sodium hydroxide solution and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 x 30 ml . The combined ethyl acetate extracts were dried MgS04 and evaporated. The resulting oil was taken up in chloroform 10 ml and chromatographed on silicic acid 50 g eluting with a 1 solution of methanol in chloroform. Combination of the relevant fractions and evaporation of the solvent gave the product as a gum, 104 mg, 2.2 .N.M.R. CDC13 1.02 t, J 7Hz, 3H , 2.05 q, J 7Hz, 2H , 2.24 s, 3H , 2.29 s, 3H , 5.2 5.41 m, 1H , 6.5 7.2 m, 3H , 7.29 s, 2H . EXAMPLE 17 2 1 2,3 Dimethylphenoxy butyl imidazole The procedure of Example 16 was followed but starting with l 2,3 dimethylphenoxy propionamide to give the title compound as a gun. N.M.R. CDC13 0.95 t, J 7Hz, 3H 1.15 1.65 m,2H , 1.9 2.06 m,2H , 2.1 s,3H , 2.15 s,3H , 5.4 t,J 7Hz,lH , 6.6 7.2 m with s at 7.02,5H . EXAMPLE 18 An emulsifiable concentrate containing the compound ofExample 1 is prepared by the thorough mixing of the following ingredients Constituent Z w wProduct of Example 1 12.5 Arylan CA 4.0 Trade mark, p dodecylbenzene sulfonate, anionic surfactant Ethylan BVlT 12.0 Trade mark, non ionic surfactant Solvesso 200 71.5 Trade mark, mixture of methyl napthalenes The concentrate is mixed with water to provide an animal dip bath of the required concentration.