# Aqueous acid metal cleaning composition and method of use.

## Abstract
Aqueous acid compositions are described which com prise a hydroxyethylethylenediaminetriacetic acid, and b a compatible acid corrosion inhibitor. The compositions are useful in removing iron oxide scale from metal surfaces.

## Claims
1. An aqueous acid composition having a pH of less than about 3 and comprising a hydroxyethylethylenediaminetriacetic acid HEDTA , and b a compatible acid corrosion inhibitor. 2. The composition of Claim 1, including a non oxidizing inorganic acid. 3. The composition of Claim 2 wherein said inorganic acid is HCl or H2S04. 4. The composition of Claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein said pH is from 1 to 2. 5. The composition of any one of Claims 1 4, wherein said HEDTA is generated in situ. 6. The composition of any one of Claims 1 to 5 wherein said acid corrosion inhibitor is an organic amine based acid corrosion inhibitor. 7. The composition of any one of Claims 1 to 6, including dissolved iron. 8. A process for removing a predominantly iron oxide scale from a ferrous metal surface and for passivating said metal surface, said process comprising the steps of 1 removing said iron oxide scale by contacting said scale with the aqueous acid composition ofClaims 1 to 6, and 2 while the ferrous metal surface is free or substantially free of iron oxide containing scale, contacting said metal surface with an aqueous alkaline liquid having an oxidant dissolved, dispersed, or entrained therein. 9. The process of Claim 8 wherein said aqueous alkaline liquid has a pH of from 8 to 10 and comprises dissolved iron and an oxidizing amount of 1 gaseous oxygen or gaseous air and 2 an alkali metal nitrite. 10. The process of Claim 8 or 9 wherein step 1 is conducted at a temperature of up to about 930C 2000F , and wherein step 2 is conducted at a temperature of up to about 790C 1750F .

## Description
AQUEOUS ACID METAL CLEANING COMPOSITION AND METHOD OF USE This invention pertains to aqueous acid compositions comprising a hydroxyethylethylenediaminetriacetic acid HEDTA , and b a compatible acid corrosion inhibitor. This invention also pertains to a method of using such compositions to chemically clean remove iron oxide scale from metal surfaces and a method of passivating the clean surface against corrosion. The invention utilizes an organic polycarboxylic acid referred to as hydroxyethylethylenediaminetriacetic acid HEDTA . This known compound corresponds to the structural formula EMI1.1 HEDTA is a solid having a melting point of 159do 3180F and it is soluble in both water and methanol. The ammonium and alkali metal salts of HEDTA are also known. HEDTA has been used in certain instances as a chelant. The ammoniated or aminated salts ofHEDTA have also been used as chelants in removing scale from metal surfaces and for passivating ferrous metal surfaces. These salts are said to be effective against water hardness type scale i.e. predominantly calcium and or magnesium salts, such as calcium sulfate, calcium carbonate, etc. and scales containing a high iron oxide content. See USP 3,308,065 Lesinski . A wide variety of other organic polycarboxylic acids have also been used in chemical cleaning and or for passivating ferrous metal surfaces. In other instances, organic acids containing acid groups other than carboxylic acid groups have been presented as mimics of polyalkylenepolycarboxylic acid chelants. See, for example, USP 3,996,062 where polyalkylenepolyphosphonic acids and alkali metal or amine salts thereof are described. A variety of ammoniated or aminated polyalkylenepolycarboxylic acids have been described as useful chelants for chemical cleaning. HEDTA is one of the acids named. When such compounds are used, the pH is preferably weakly acidic or basic, preferably basic. The use of ammoniated ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid at pH of from 8.5 to 10 as per USP 3,308,065, USP 3,413,160 and or USP 3,438,811 continues to represent the state of art from a commerical standpoint. A novel aqueous acid composition has now been discovered which is particularly useful in removing iron oxide scale from metal surfaces. The novel aqueous acid compositions have a pH of less than about 3 and comprise a hydroxyethylethylenediaminetriacetic acid HEDTA , and b a compatible acid corrosion inhibitor. The novel compositions are particularly efficient in removing iron oxide scale from metal surfaces. HEDTA forms a chelant with dissolved iron and thus retains the iron in solution during chemical cleaning processes. While the novel compositions can be used in cleaning a variety of iron oxide containing scales from metal surfaces, it is best suited for removing scales which are predominantly iron oxide.In addition, the spent aqueous acid composition can then be used to passivate the ferrous metal surface which is free or substantially free of iron oxide scale.This is accomplished by neutralizing the spent acid composition with an aqueous base e.g. ammonium hydroxide to a pH of from 8 to 10 and adding an oxidizing amount of 1 gaseous oxygen or gaseous air, and 2 an alkali metal nitrite to the composition. HEDTA can be prepared by any of several known techniques, but it is preferably prepared by the process described by D. A. Wilson et al. in USP 4,212,994. The acid corrosion inhibitors are likewise a known class of compounds, any member of which can be used herein so long as it is compatible with aqueous solutions of HEDTA, i.e. the corrosion inhibitor is soluble in the aqueous solution and it does not substantially retard the efficiency of HEDTA in removing the scale and or in chelating dissolved iron. The amine based acid corrosion inhibitors are the most common and are thus preferred. Acid compositions of the invention have a pH of less than about 3. Preferably, the pH of the composition is from 1 to 2. Aqueous solutions of HEDTA usually have a pH of from 2.2 to 2.3. The pE of the acid compositions can be lowered by adding a compatible nonoxidizing inorganic acid, e.g. hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid, phosphoric acid, and the like. Sulfuric acid is usually preferred when the composition is to be used in cleaning scale from a ferrous metal surface. The amounts of HEDTA in the acid compositions are bounded only by its solubility. Typically, REDTA is present in amounts of from 1 to 8 weight percent, total weight basis. The amounts of corrosion inhibitor can likewise be varied. Functionally, the corrosion inhibitors will be present in sufficient quantities to inhibit or prevent acid corrosion of clean base metal i.e. a corrosion inhibiting amount . Typically, the corrosion inhibitors are added in amounts of up to about 1 weight percent, total weight basis. The aqueous acid compositions can be prepared by merely blending the essential components i.e water, HEDTA, and corrosion inhibitor . If an inorganic acid is to be included, it is normally added to an aqueous solution of HEDTA with or without the corrosion inhibitor according to standard procedures.Alternatively, the compositions can be prepared by generating the HEDTA in situ. In such an instance, an aqueous inorganic acid such as 98 percent H2SO4 is blended into an aqueous solution of ammonium or alkali metal salt of HEDTA again, with or without the corrosion inhibitor present in the solution . It is preferable in such instances to either avoid the formation of a precipitate i.e. Na2SO4 by having sufficient water present to dissolve the salts that are formed, or to remove the solid precipitates e.g. by filtration . The reason for avoiding precipitates is readily apparent when the compositions are to be used in cleaning scale from metal surfaces having an unusual configuration, restriction zones or valleys that could be plugged by the solid. The process of cleaning i.e. removing predominantly iron oxide scale from metal surfaces involves contacting such scale encrusted surfaces with the novel aqueous acid compositions for a time sufficient to remove the desired amount of scale. Like most chemical reactions, the rate of scale dissolution is increased at higher temperatures. So while ambient temperatures can be used, the process is preferably conducted at an elevated temperature. The upper temperature is bounded only by the thermal stability of the essential components in the novel compositions and by the capacity or ability of the corrosion inhibitor to function effectively at that temperature. Thus, process temperatures of up to about 930C 2000F are operable, but temperatures of from 710 820C 1600 180aF are normally preferred.The reaction rate of scale dissolution is quite acceptable at the preferred temperatures. After the cleaning process is complete, it is normally desirable to passivate the clean metal surface.This can be accomplished by draining the cleaning composition, rinsing the clean metal surface with water, and then contacting the clean metal surface with a passivating agent. Alternatively, and preferably in many instances, the spent aqueous acid compositions can be transformed into a passivating composition for ferrous metal by neutralizing them with an aqueous base e.g. ammonium hydroxide, NaOH, etc. to a pH of from 8 to 10 and adding an oxidizing amount of gaseous oxygen, gaseous air, and or an alkali metal nitrite e.g.sodium nitrite to the neutralized composition. This can usually be done in situ without any need for the drain and rinse steps. Passivation is usually accomplished by contacting the clean ferrous metal while it is free or substantially free of iron oxide scale with the spent aqueous acid composition as modified at an elevated temperature. Temperatures of up to about 790C 1750F are convenient and normally used and temperatures of from 660 71aC 1500 1600F are generally preferred. The teachings of Teumac USP 3,413,160 are applicable in this passivating step. The presence of an oxidant in the passivating compositions is significant in enhancing the passivation process. The chelated iron in the spent aqueous acid composition is usually a mixture of chelated ferrous Fe 2 and ferric foe 3 ions a ratio determinable by Teumac s disclosure. Chelated ferric ions, of course, act as an oxidant in the presence of base metal FeO , and so the spent aqueous acid composition can be neutralized pH about 8 to 10 and used in passivation, by adding an oxidant to generate ferric ions. If the solution contains an anion that interferes with passivation such as the sulfate anion , the spent solution must be neutralized pH about 8 to 10 and oxidized with an oxidizing amount of 1 gaseous oxygen or gaseous air, and 2 an alkali metal nitrite.The passivation process can be monitored by measuring the electrical potentials of the metal surface in the passivating composition, as per Teumac. After passivation is complete, the passivating composition is used, drained and the passivated surface is flushed with water. In both the cleaning process step and the passivation step, it is advantageous to circulate the system so that fresh solution is continually brought to the metal surface.Experiments 1 3 A 3 weight percent solution of HEDTA in water was prepared by dissolving the required amount of trisodium HEDTA salt in water and then lowering the pH of the solution to 1.6 using 98 percent sulfuric acid.Another solution of HEDTA was prepared by adding sulfuric acid to a 3 weight percent HEDTA solution in water to bring the pH to 1.2. A commercial amine based acid corrosion inhibitor Dowel A175 was then added to each of the HEDTA solutions in amounts sufficient to give an inhibitor concentration of 0.3 weight percent.These aqueous acid HEDTA solutions, with inhibitor, were then evaluated as chemical cleaning solvents for iron oxide scale using the following procedure. Trademark A rusted water pipe having an original inside diameter of 0.5 inch was cut into uniform 6 inch sections. A small closed test loop of stainless steel tubing 0.5 inch inside diameter and one of the sections of rusted pipe was prepared and equipped with a liquid pumping means to circulate liquid through the closed loop. The test loop was then loaded with 400 mLs of the chemical cleaning solution to be tested, the temperature of the contents raised to 380C 1000F , and the chemical cleaning solution pumped through the loop at a rate of approximately 200 mL minute for 8 hours.The amount of dissolved iron in the cleaning solution was analyzed at the end of 1 hour and at the end of 8 hours using a commercial atomic absorption spectrophotometer. The results are summarized in Table I. TABLE IExperi Dissolved Iron ppm ment Solution pH 1 Hour 8 Hours Comments 1 HEDTA 1.2 960 4240 90 clean 2 HEDTA 1.6 1200 3840 90 clean 3 EDTA 5.0 360 1200 Much scale remaining This solvent is an ammoniated ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid solution having a pH of 5 and is inhibited with a similar commercial amine based corrosion inhibitior Dowel16 A196 . The data from Table I show the HEDTA solutions to be far more effective in dissolving this predominantly Trademark iron oxide scale than the EDTA based solution which is a commercial cleaning solvent.Experiments 4 7 In this series of Experiments, the chemical cleaning ability of various solvents was measured by placing a one inch coupon into a stirred autoclave containing 300 mL of the cleaning solution at 660C 1500F for 6 hours. The amount of dissolved iron was measured at the end of 1 hour and at the end of the test, 6 hours. The one inch coupons were cut from a piece of drum boiler tubing which had been used in a forced circulation boiler. The results from these tests are summarized in Table II. TABLE IIExperi Dissolved Iron ppm ment Solution pH 1 Hour 6 hours Comments 4 HEDTA 1.2 2080 2560 Clean 5 HEDTA 1.6 1760 2560 Clean 6 HEDTA 2.3 1280 2920 Some scale remaining 7 EDTA 5.0 1420 3440 In this series of Experiments, the solvents used in Experiments 4 and 5 correspond to the solvents used in Experiments 1 and 2, respectively. A solvent used in Experiment 6 is a 3 percent aqueous solution ofHEDTA containg 0.3 percent of corrosion inhibitor, Dowelle A175. The EDTA solvent from Experiment 7 corresponds to the solvent used in Experiment 3.Experiments 8 9 This series of Experiments is similar to those immediately preceding except that the coupons were sections of tubing from a pressure boiler referred to as a drumless boiler or a once through boiler.The types of scale are somewhat different. The results of the tests are shown in Table III. TABLE IIIExperi Dissolved Iron ppm ment Solution pH 1 Hr. 4 Hr. 6 Hr. Comments 8 HEDTA 1.6 3040 4200 clean shiny 9 EDTA 5.0 770 3220 clean The solvents in Experiments 2 and 8 correspond and the solvents in Experiments 3 and 9 correspond.The Experiments 8 and 9 were conducted at 660C 1500F for 4 and 6 hours, respectively. The data show that the HEDTA solution was far more effective than theEDTA based commercial solvent in removing the type of scale encountered in drumless boilers.Experiments 10 12 In this similar series of Experiments, coupons obtained from a super heat reheat section of a boiler were used. The data from this series of test is summarized in Table IV. Trademark TABLE IV T, OC DissolvedExperiment Solution pH OF Time Hrs Iron ppm 10 HEDTA 1.2 66 9 9152 150 11 HEDTA 1.6 66 25 6136 150 12 EDTA 5.0 93 25 7440 200 The solvents used in Experiments 10 12 correspond to the solvents used in Experiments 1 3, respectively. In each instance, visual observation of the coupon and the spent cleaning solution showed the coupon to be clean with a small amount of Iron Chromite adhering to the surface. The data in Table IV show theHEDTA solutions to be as effective or better than the commercial EDTA based solvent even at lower temperatures against this heavy dense scale. The scale on super heater reheater surfaces is probably one of the most difficult scales to remove. The HEDTA results are, therefore, excellent. All of the dissolved iron figures presented in Tables I IV were normalized to account for the difference in the weight of the coupons .Experiments 13 14 An HEDTA solution was prepared as per Experiment 2 at a pH of 1.6. The pH of this solution was raised with ammonium hydroxide to a pH of 9.2. One percent sodium nitrite was then added, based on the weight of the original HEDTA solution. A steel specimen which had been freshly cleaned with acid was then placed into this passivating solution for 15 minutes.The steel specimen was then removed, rinsed with deionized water and hung xp to dry. No after rusting was observed. Additionally, while the steel specimen was in the passivating solution, the surface potential of the steel coupon was measured against the standardCalomel electrode, as per the test set forth in Teumac.This potential also indicated passivation had occurred. In another passivation test, a steel coupon and a portion of a boiler tube which had been freshly cleaned with a HEDTA solution of pH 1.6 as per Experiment 2 were rinsed and placed directly into hot water containing ammonia and 0.25 percent sodium nitrite for 15 minutes. These metal articles were then removed, rinsed with deionized water, and hung up to dry. No after rusting was observed. Similar results were achieved when the passivating solution contained 0.25 percent hydrazine instead of sodium nitrite. Experiment 15 In a preoperational cleanup, one of two pipelines in a paper mill were cleaned by filling and circulating an aqueous solution containing 6 percent Na3 HEDTA and H2SO4 at pE 1.6 and from 0.3 weight percent of a commercial acid corrosion inhibitor Dowel1 A175 . The temperature of the solution was maintained between 600 66aC 140O150OF . After only 1.5 hours, the dissolved iron content had risen to and remained stable at 0.2 percent. The concentration of the Na3 HEDTA in the solution dropped to about 4 percent. Trademark A fresh solution of Na3 HEDTA H2S04 of like strength and inhibitor concentration was prepared and circulated through the second system at a temperature of from 600 660C 1400 1500F , After 1.5 hours, the amount of dissolved iron in the solution was 0.3 percent and the concentration of the Na3 HEDTA had been reduced to about 3 percent and remained stable. The pH of the cleaning solution used on the first pipeline was 1.56 and the pH used in cleaning the second system was 1.97. Sulfuric acid was used in each instance to adjust the pH to the indicated values. Inspection of the cleaning system showed that the 0.01 inch thick deposit of denseSmagnetite had been completely removed from the pipeline. There remained, however, a gritty film on sections of the pipe. This grit was easily wiped off the pipe surface and was metallic in nature and could be picked up with a magnet. The customer was extremely pleased with the cleaning procedure. It was determined that the remaining material in the cleaning system could be removed by a steamblow of the piping. It should be noted that the surfaces cleaned were composed of a myriad of metals, including T11 steel, 410 stainless steel, 4140 Cadmium plated 304 stainless steel, T22 steel, Stillite surfaces and leadplated steel rings. These metal surfaces were cleaned free or substantially free of the dense magnetite encrustations without any apparent adverse effect to the base metal. The results achieved in this field trial were excellent.