# Novel metal micelle asbestos and treatment of asbestos and other silicate minerals to reduce their harmful properties.

## Abstract
Silicate minerals, including asbestos fibres, are ren dered less harmful by forming metal micelle polymer coat ings on the silicate. A metal micelle polymer coating is formed on a silicate by contacting a silicate mineral, such as asbestos, with a metal weak base strong acid aqueous ion system, or a metal strong base weak acid ion system. In these systems the metal is selected from the group cons isting of manganese, chromium, cobalt, iron, copper, aluminum and mixtures of these metals. The product of reacting asbestos fibres with these systems is less irritating to living cells than asbestos fibres and also has substantially the same physical and chemical properties as asbestos fibres and can thus be substituted for asbestos fibres in most technological applications.

## Claims
NOVEL METAL MICELLE ASBESTOS AND TREATMENT OF ASBESTOS AND OTHER SILICATE MINERALS TO REDUCE THEIR HARMFUL PROPERTIES Claims. 1. A method for rendering silicate minerals less harmful to living cells comprising the step of contacting a silicate material with a a metal weak base strong acid ion system, wherein said system comprises i an aqueous solution containing at least three ions, said three ions including a cation from a weak base, an anion from a strong acid and a metal ion, or ii an aqueous solution containing at least two ions, said two ions including a cation from a weak base and a metal containing anion from a strong acid, or b a metal strong base weak acid ion system, wherein said system comprises an aqueous solution containing at least three ions, said three ions including a cation from a strong base, an anion from a weak acid and a metal ion, wherein said metal is selected from the group consisting of manganese, chromium, cobalt, iron, copper, aluminum and mixtures thereof, and whereby said metal weak base strong acid ion system or said metal strong base weak acid ion system forms a metal micelle polymer silicate mineral by inducing formation of a metal micelle polymer coating on said silicate mineral, said polymer coating being ionically bonded to said silicate mineral. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said metal is iron. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said metal weak basestrong acid ion system comprises an aqueous solution of NH4Fe S04 2. 4. The method of claim 2 wherein said metal weak basestrong acid ion system comprises an aqueous solution of NH4Fe SO4 2 . 12H20. S. The method of claim 1 wherein said contacting occurs at a temperature within the range of about 200C to about 100 C. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein said contacting occurs at a pH of from about 1 to about 8. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein said contacting occurs at a pH of from about 3 to about 7. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein said metal micelle polymer silicate mineral contains from about 5 to about 18 by weight more metal than said silicate mineral. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein said metal micelle polymer silicate mineral contains from about 5 to about 10 by weight more metal than said silicate mineral. 10. A method for making metal micelle polymer asbestos comprising the step of contacting asbestos fibre with a a metal weak base strong acid ion system, wherein said system comprises i an aqueous solution containing at least three ions, said three ions including a cation from a weak base, an anion from a strong acid and a metal ion, or ii an aqueous solution containing at least two ions, said two ions including a cation from a weak base and a metal containing anion from a strong acid, or b a metal strong base weak acid ion system, wherein said system comprises an aqueous solution containing at lea st three ions, said three ions including a cation from a strong base, an anion from a weak acid and a metal ion, wherein said metal is selectred from the group consisting of manganese, chromium, cobalt, iron, copper, aluminum and mixtures thereof, and whereby said metal weak base strong acid ion system or said metal strong base weak acid ion system forms a metal micelle polymer asbestos by inducing formation of a metal micelle polymer coating on said asbestos fibre, said polymer coating being ionically bonded to said asbestos fibre. 11. The method of claim lo wherein said contacting occurs under conditions whereby sufficient metal micelle polymer is formed on said asbestos fibres to block the biologically reactive sites of said asbestos fibres. 12. The method of claim 10 wherein said metal is iron. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein said metal weak base strong acid ion system comprises an aqueous solution of NH4Fe SO4 2. 14. The method of claim 12 wherein said metal weak base strong acid system comprises an aqueous solution of NH4Fe S04 2 . 12H20. 15. The method of claim 10 wherein said contacting occurs at a temperature within the range of about 20 C to about 100 C. 16. The methods of claim 10 wherein said contacting occurs at a pH of from about 1 to about 8. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein said contacting occurs at a pH of from about 3 to about 7. 18. The method of claim 10 wherein said metal micelle polymer asbestos contains from about 5 to about 18 by weight more metal than said asbestos fibres. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein said metal micelle polymer asbestos contains from about 5 to about 10 by weight more metal than said asbestos fibres. 20. A metal micelle polymer asbestos comprising the reaction product of asbestos fibres with a a metal weak base strong acid ion system, wherein said system comprises i an aqueous solution containing at least three ions, said three ions including a cation from a weak base, an anion from a strong acid and a metal ion, or ii an aqueous solution containing at least two ions, said two ions including a cation from a weak base and a metal containing anion from a strong acid, or b a metal strong base weak acid ion system, wherein said system comprises an aqueous solution containing at least three ions1 said three ions including a cation from a strong base, an anion from a weak acid and a metal ion, wherein said metal is selected from the group consisting of manganese, chromium, cobalt, iron, copper, aluminum and mixtures thereof. 21. The metal micelle polymer asbestos of claim 20, wherein said metal micelle polymer asbestos contains sufficient metal micelle polymer coating to block the biologically reactive sites of said asbestos fibres. 22. The metal micelle polymer asbestos of claim 20 wherein said metal is iron. 23. A metal micelle polymer chrysotile asbestos having repeating units of the formulaEMI95.1 wherein Me is a metal selected from the group consisting of manganese, chromium, cobalt, iron, copper, aluminium and mixtures thereof. 24. The metal micelle polymer chrysotile asbestos of claim 23, wherein said metal micelle polymer asbestos contains sufficient metal micelle polymer to block the biologically reactive sites of said asbestos. 25. The metal micelle polymer asbestos of claim 23 wherein Me is iron Fe . 26. A metal micelle amosite asbestos having repeating units of the formulaEMI96.1 wherein Me is a metal selected from the group consisting of manganese, chromium, cobalt, iron, copper, aluminum and mixutres thereof. 27. The metal micelle amosite asbestos of claim 26 wherein Me is iron Fe . 28. A metal micelle anthophyllite asbestos having repeating units of the formulaEMI96.2 wherein Me is a metal selected from the group consisting of manganese, chromium, cobalt, iron, copper, aluminium and mixtures thereof. 29. The metal micelle anthophyllite asbestos of claim 28 wherein Me is iron Fe . 30. A metal micelle crocidolite asbestos having repeating units of the formulaEMI97.1 wherein Me is a metal selected from the group consisting of manganese, chromium, cobalt, iron, copper, aluminum and mixtures thereof. 31. The metal micelle crocidolite asbestos of claim 30 wherein Me is iron Fe . 32. A cement comprising from about 80 to about 90 by weight calcium oxide and sand and from about 10 to about 20 by weight of a metal micelle chrysotile asbestos having repeating units of the formulaEMI97.2 a metal micelle crocidolite asbestos having repeating units of the formulaEMI97.3 a metal micelle amosite asbestos having repeating units of the formulaEMI97.4 a metal micelle anthophyllite asbestos having repeating units of the formulaEMI98.1 and mixtures thereof, wherein Me is a metal selected from the group consisting of manganese, chromium, cobalt, iron, copper, aluminium and mixtures thereof. 33. A method for making metal micelle polymer asbestos comprising the step of contacting asbestos fibres with a metal strong base weak acid ion system, wherein said system comprises an aqueous solution of a cation from a strong base and an anion from a metal ion system constituting a weak acid, whereby said metal strong baseweak acid ion system forms a metal micelle polymer asbestos by inducing formation of a metal micelle polymer coating on said asbestos fibre, said polymer coating being ionically bonded to said asbestos fibre, and wherein said metal is selected from the group consisting of manganese, chromium, cobalt, iron, copper, aluminum and mixtures thereof. 34. The method of claim 33 wherein said contacting occurs under conditions whereby sufficient metal micelle polymer is formed on said asbestos fibres to block the biologically reactive sites of said asbestos fibres. 35. The method of claim 33 wherein said metal is iron. 36. The method of claim 33 wherein said contacting occurs at a temperature within the range of about 2O0C to about 100 C. 37. The method of claim 33 wherein said contacting occurs at a pH from about 1 to about 8. 38. The method of claim 37 wherein said contacting occurs at a pH of from about 3 to about 7. 39. The method of claim 33 wherein said metal micelle polymer asbestos contains from about 5 to about 18 by weight more metal than said asbestos fibres. 40. The method of claim 39 wherein said metal micelle polymer asbestos contains from about 5 to about 10 by weight more metal than said asbestos fibres. 41. A metal micelle polymer asbestos comprising the reaction product of asbestos fibres with a metal strong base weak acid ion system, wherein said system comprises an aqueous solution of a cation from a strong base and an anion from a metal ion system constituting a weak acid and wherein said metal is selected from the group consisting of manganese, chromium, cobalt, iron, copper, aluminum and mixtures thereof.

## Description
NOVEL METAL MICELLE ASBESTOS AND TREATMENT OF ASBESTOS AND OTHER SILICATE MINERALS TO REDUCE THEIR HARMFUL PROPERTIES Background of the InventionThe present invention principally relates to a treatment of silicate minerals to reduce their harmful properties by converting the silicate minerals to metal micelle silicates. More specificially, the invention relates to a treatment of the silicate mineral asbestos to reduce its harmful properties by converting the asbestos to metalmicelle asbestos. The invention also relates to technological applications of both the metal micelle silicate compositions and the presently disclosed method for making such silicate compositions.In addition, the invention relates to a method for lowering the magnetic rating of iron containing silicate minerals such as asbestos, and to a method for reducing the environmental hazards associated with packaging and shipping of dry silicate minerals.In general, a silicate includes any of the widely occurring compounds containing silicon, oxygen, and one or more metals, with or without hydrogen. More specifically, silicate minerals comprise the bulk of the outer crust of the earth and form in a wide range of geologic environments.All silicate minerals are built of a fundamental structural unit, the so called SiO4 tetrahedron.The crystal structure may be based on isolated SiO4 groups or, since each of the four oxygen ions can bond to either one or two silicon Si ions, on SiO4 groups shared in such a way as to form complex isolated groups or indefinitely extending chains, sheets, or three dimensional networdks. Mixed structures in which more than one type of shared tetrahedra are present also are known.Silicate minerals are classified according to the nature of the sharing mechanism, as revealed by x ray diffraction study, and an abbreviated form of such a classification is given below.Type Nature of Si O Si O ratio Examples linkageNesosilicates Isolated SiO4 1 4 Olivine, garner groupsSorosilicates Isolated compound 2 7, Thortveitite, groups, Si207, 6 18, beryl Si6018, and so and so on onInosilicates 1 Dimensional 1 3,4 11 Amphibolest extended and so on pyroxenes chains and bandsPhyllosili 2 Dimensional 2 5 Mica, clays cates extended sheets talc, chloriteTectosili 3 Dimensional 1 2 Feldspars, cates network feldspath iods, zeolitesMany silicate minerals are of economic importance. Among the clays, feldspars, and refractory minerals, andalusite and wollastonite are used in the ceramic industries, mica as an electrical insulating agent, asbestos and exfoliated vermicularite as thermal insulating agents, and garnet as an abrasive.Talc is a constituent of facial powder. Other silicates are important as ore minerals, beryllium being obtained from beryl, zirconium and hafnium from zircon, and thorium from thorite. Some silicate minerals such as jadeite and nephrite are prized as ornamental materials, and peridot, garnet, tourmaline, and aquamarine are wellknown gem stones. Various health hazards arise, however, from the inhalation of natural silicate mineral dusts. In general, silicate minerals are notorious for causing lung diseases such as silicosis. A particular manifestation of silicosis is the black lung disease coal miners contract from inhalation of coal dust and crystalline silicates.A particularly troublesome silicate mineral is asbestos.Asbestos is a commercial term applied to several minerals which are widely utilized, primarily because of their fibrous characteristics. All asbestos minerals consist of partially open bundles of very fine fibres and most single fibrils have a channel in the center. The principal asbestos minerals are chrysotile, crocidolite, amosite and anthophyllite. Because they differ in chemical and physical properties, these minerals have different commercial applications.Chrysotile is the serpentine variety of asbestos fibre.Chrysotile fibres occur in a wide variety of shapes. The empirical composition of chrysotile is 3MgO . 2 SiO2. H2O. The unit cell, however, has been represented as Mg6 OH 8Si4010 . Crysotile forms of asbestos comprise about 95 of the word s production and are principally supplied by Canada and Rhodesia, although there are some new and relatively small sources in the United StatesAll varieties of asbestos other than chrysotile belong to the amphibole group of minerals and are generically termed amphibole asbestos. The amphibole asbestos are streight fibres and are further characterized by perfect prismatic cleavage with angles of 560 and 1240 between cleavage planes. The empirical composition of crocidolite is Na6Fe10Si16 046 OH 2. Crocidolite is the fibrous form of the mineral reibeckite. Crocidolite fibres, having an elliptical or circular cross section, are flexible and stronger than those of ch rysotile The principal source of crocidolite is the Union of South Africa.The empirical formula of amosite, a yellowish grayish white variety asbestos found only in Transvaal, SouthAfrica, is FeMg7 Si8022 OH 2. Amosite fibres, which exhibit a rectangular section, are harsher and ordinarily slightly weaker than those of chrysotile. Amosite fibre lengths extend to 10 11 inches.The empirical formula of anthophyllite is Mg7Si2022 OH 2.If unexposed to the atmosphere, anthophyllite is a greenish gray color. On being exposed to the atmosphere, however, it yields brownish white fibres that are short and weak and are only slightly flexible. Anthophyllite is found in Georgia and North Carolina in the United States and also in Finland.Because of their physical and chemical properties, the asbestos minerals are extremely useful materials, presently employed in more than two thousand applications, including fireproof textiles, brake linings, thermal insulation, asbestos cement pipe, asbestos cement sheets, paper products, gaskets, woven fabrics, high temperature insulation, chemical resistant filters, and filler material.Recently discovered evidence indicates, however, that introduction of asbestos into living organism increases the organisms risks of developing various chronic diseases including lung cancer, chronic fibrosing processes in the lungs, and mesothelioma of the lungs or intestines. The gravity of this evidence is underscored by the widespread applications of asbestos and the resulting frequent exposure of living organisms thereto.It is presently believed that when an asbestos fibre comes into contact with a living cell, the asbestos fibre irritates the cell and leads to its eventual weakening.After such weakening, it is believed the asbestos fibre enters into the cell.Although it is not clear what happens when asbestos enters a cell, in the article entitled RelationshipBetween Exposure to Asbestos, Collagen Formation,Ferruginous Bodies and Carcinoma, published by the inventor in the November 1974 edition of the AmericanIndustrial Hygiene Association Journal, it is postulated that entrance of asbestos into living cells results in formation of ferruginous bodies. A ferruginous body is an iron containing protein body with a fibrous core thought to be formed by macrophage cells attempting to phagocytize a foreign fibre. Ferruginous bodies formed in living organism appear to occur in various shapes and sizes, including evenly distributed deposits, series of clump like deposits, and large barbell shaped deposits. Although sizes vary, the fibre core approcimates the lengths and diameters of asbestos and other fibres found in living organisms.It is further theorized that formation of a ferruginous body in a living cell occurs by deposition of ferritin, a crystalline iron containing protein and or hemosiderin, a yellowish brown granular pigment formed by the breakdown of hemoglobin and composed essentially of ferric oxide, on an electronegative surface, such as the nucleophilic silicates present in asbestos fibres. The formation of ferruginous bodies in a living organism appears to set in motion a collagen synthesis ultimately resulting in chronic fibrosis and a potential for developing carcinoma.Those skilled in the art have diligently sought a method for rendering asbestos less harmful without substantially affecting its significant physical and chemical properties.Other problems associated with asbestos and other silicate minerals have plagued the art. Those in the industry have previously dry processed asbestos because the material does not handle well wet. Handling asbestos in a dry state creates asbestos dust and thus increases the possibility of introduction of asbestos into a living organism. To combat this danger, many safeguards are presently employed to prevent inhalation during the handling of asbestos. For example, expensive machinery, such as automatic bag opening machines, is frequently used. There exists, therefore, a need for a wet asbestoslike material and other silicate mineral like materials which handle well.Another problem of increasing concern is contamination of water supplies by asbestos fibres and other silicate minerals, particularly in areas where waste from asbestos cement plants, mines, or other processes involving asbestos or other silicate minerals comes into contact with the water supply.Further, although unrelated to rendering asbestos less harmful, the magnetic rating of certain iron containing silicate minerals, such as grades 4 7 of untreated asbestos, which are used in reinforcing cement and as binding agents, is too high to allow use of such asbestos as an effective electrical insulator in many applications.Decrease of the magnetic rating of such asbestos would decrease the electrical conductivity thereof and allow an expanded use of such treated asbestos grades in applications such as electrical insulating tape.The present explosive growth in use of asbestos, moreover, compared to the rate of discovery of new sources thereof, raises the spectre of depletion of this valuable mineral by the year 2000. This danger is compounded because some portion of the existing asbestos sources cannot presently be used owing to environmental restrictions. There is, accordingly, a pressing need for a treatment of asbestos which would decrease the total use of natural asbestos fibre while at the same time facilitating use of sources of asbestos now subject to environmental restrictions.Another problem facing technological workers involves the economic removal of acidic iron from sources such as aqueous mine drainage. Although solutions to this problem would, at first blush, seem irrelevant to methods for treating silicate minerals, including asbestos, the present invention offers a highly attractive solution to the removal of iron from aqueous solutions.In accordance with the present invention it has been discovered that treating silicate minerals, prior to their introduction into a living organism, with an aqueous metal salt solution to form a metal micelle silicate renders the silicate less harmful to living cells. Specifically, it has been discovered that treating asbestos, prior to its introduction into a living organism, with an aqueous metal salt solution to form metal micelle asbestos masks the iron binding sites in the asbestos. Hence, the metal micelle asbestos, when introduced into a living cell, do not react with cellular iron. Accordingly, the reaction that is believed to initiate fibrosis is blocked and biological hazards associated with exposure of living organisms to asbestos are reduced.Moreover, the treatment of the present invention, in addition to rendering asbestos less harmful, provides an asbestos like material having physical and chemical properties, such as insulating properties, reinforcing strength, binding properties and numerous additional properties, very similar to those of untreated asbestos.The present invention thus makes it possible to replace untreated asbestos fibre by a less hazardous but equallyuseful composition of matter , metal micelle asbestos, in the multitudinous processes and products presently utilizing asbestos.Representative applications of the metal micelle asbestos and other metal micelle silicates of the present invention include 1. Treatment of gravels or geological deposits containing asbestos or silicate minerals with a micelle forming solution, particularly sandstones and granites.2. Surface applications of micelle forming solutions to existing open sources of asbestos and other silicate minerals, such as in schools, homes, offices, and recreation areas.3. Brake linings, gaskets, and other devices subject to friction and stress. 4. General uses as a binding agent and extender, inclu ding use as an extender and coloring agent in paint.5. Cement.6. Yarn spun for producing woven cloth for curtains, bags, ribbons, filters, protective coverings, etc. 7. Formation into paper or board.8. Fluffing to form an insulating material.9. Marine boiler insulation.10. Treatment of demolition debris and reuse in cements and pavings.Moreover, the present invention comprehends treatment of asbestos and other silicate mineral hazards already in use. For example, a playground covered by gravel containing asbestos can be made less harmful simply by srpaying the gravel with an appropriate metal salt aqueous solution.The present invention also can provide both a wet asbestoslike material and a wet asbestos which handles well and which can be shipped and used as a wet cake. In addition to providing the handling advantages inherent in use of a wet cake or slurry, using the material in the form of a wet cake or slurry reduces the potential biological risks resulting from the exposure of workers to asbestos dust during dry processing.In addition to diminishing the likelihood of the reaction that initiates fibrosis and eventuates in cancer, the metal micelle asbestos fibres of the present invention have a slightly larger diameter than untreated asbestos fiber. This slight increase in diameter makes the metalmicelle asbestos fibres less respirable than conventional asbestos, i.e., less apt to be retained in the lungs of a living organism.Treatment of asbestos by the method of the present invention to form a metal micelle asbestos can increase the total weight of asbestos like material, with an attendant decrease in the use of natural asbestos fibre in certain applications. The formation of metal micelle asbestos, moreover, may well allow use of sources of asbestos previously subject to environmental restrictions. Accordingly, the present invention may decrease the depletion rate of world supplies of useable asbestos.Further, the present invention provides a means for decongaminating water supplies containing asbestos fibres and other silicate minerals. Addition of an appropriate metal salt to the water removes the silicate mineral contaminant by converting it to a metal micelle silicate. The metal micelle asbestos of the present invention has a lower magnetic rating than untreated asbestos. The present invention also decreases the magnetic rating of iron containing silicates which are not converted to metalmicelle silicates. Thus, with respect to the silicate asbestos it will be possible to use additional grades of asbestos, as well as asbestos metal micelles, in such applications as electrical insulating tape.The present invention also provides an economical method for removing acidic iron from such sources as aqueous mine drainage. By contacting the mine drainage with a silicate, mineral such as, for example, an asbestos mat in the presence of ammonia, the iron contained in the drainage will precipitate onto the asbestos mat to form ironmicelle asbestos. Brief description of the drawingsFig. 1 is a schematic diagram of a process for treating asbestos in accordance with the present invention.Figs 2 to 11 are photomicrographs showing representative results of the biological testing detailed in Example 41.Fig. 12 is a graphical representation of the Cytotoxicity of UICC Chrysotile B and the Effect of Iron Micelle Treatments on Cell Counts.Fig. 13 is a graphical represnetation of the Cytotoxicity of UICC Amosite and the Effect of Iron Micelle Treatments on Cell Counts. Summary of the InventionThe present invention relates to a method for rendering silicate minerals less harmful to living cells comprising the step of forming a metal micelle silicate prior to contact of the silicate with the living cells. The metalmicelle silicate is formed by contacting a silicate mineral with an aqueous solution of a weak base, strong acid or strong base weak acid salt of manganese, chromium, cobalt, iron, copper, aluminum, or mixtures thereof. The preferred metal salt is NH4Fe S04 2.More specifically, a silicate mineral is contacted with a a metal weak base strong acid ion system, wherein the system comprises i an aqueous solution containing at least three ions, the three ions including a cation from a weak base, an anion from a strong acid and a metal ion, or ii an aqueous solution containing at least two ions, the two ions including a cation from a weak base and a metal containing anion from a strong acid, or b a metal strong base weak acid ion system, wherein the system comprises an aqueous solution containing at least three ions, the three ions including a cation from a strong base, an anion from a weak acid and a metal ion, wherein the metal is selected from the group consisting of manganese, chromium, cobalt, iron, copper, aluminum and mixtures thereof, and whereby the metal weak basestrong acid ion system or the metal strong base weak acid ion system forms a metal micelle polymer silicate mineral by inducing formation of a metal micelle polymer coating on the silicate mineral, the polymer coating being ionically bonded to the silicate mineral. Preferably, the metal weak base strong acid ion system comprises an aqueous solution of NH4Fe S04 2. More specifically, the present invention relates to a method for decreasing the irritation of living cells resulting from contacts of asbestos fibres with living cells comprising the step of forming a metal micelle asbestos prior to contact of the asbestos fibres with the living cells. This method also inhibits the formation of ferruginous bodies within living cells. The metal micelle asbestos is formed by contacting asbestos fibres with an aqueous solution of a weak base, strong acid or strong base, weak acid salt of manganese, chromium, cobalt , iron, copper, aluminum, or mixtures thereof.The preferred metal salt is NH4Fe S04 2, More specifically, the asbestos fibre is contacted with a a metal weak base stron acid ion system, wherein the system comprises i an aqueous solution containing at least three ions, the three ions including a cation from a weak base, an anion from a strong acid and a metal ion, or ii an aqueous solution containing at least two ions, the two ions including a cation from Åa weak base and a metal containing anion from a strong acid, or b a metal strong base weak acid ion system, wherein the system comprises an aqueous solution containing at least three ions, the three ions including a cation from a strong base, an anion from a weak acid and a metal ion, wherein the metal is selected from the group consisting of manganese, chromium, cobalt, iron, copper, aluminum and mixtures thereof, and whereby the metal weak base strong acid ion system or the metal strong base weak acid ion system forms a metal micelle polymer asbestos by inducing formation of a metal micelle polymer coating on the asbestos fibre, the polymer coating being ionically bonded to the asbestos fibre. Preferably, the metal weak basestrong acid ion system comprises an aqueous solution of NH4Fe SO4 2 or NH4Fe S04 2 . 12H20 The invention is further directed to a method for making metal micelle asbestos comprising the step of contacting asbestos fibres with an aqueous solution of a weak base, strong acid or strong base, weak acid salt of manganese, chromium, cobalt, iron, copper, aluminum or mixtures thereof.The invention is further directed to a method for making metal micelle polymer asbestos comprising the step of contacting asbestos fibres with a metal strong base weak acid ion system, wherein the system comprises an aqueous solution of a cation from a strong base and an anion from a metal ion system constituting a weak acid, whereby the metal strong base weak acid ion system forms a metalmicelle polymer asbestos by inducing formation of a metalmicelle polymer coating on the asbestos fibre, the polymer coating being ionically bonded to the asbestos fibre and wherein the metal is selected from the group consisting of manganese, chromium, cobalt, iron, copper, aluminum and mixtures thereof.The invention is also directed to a metal micelle asbestos comprising the reaction product of asbestos fibres with an aqueous solution of a weak base, strong acid or strong base, wak acid salt of manganese, chromium, cobalt, iron, copper, aluminum or mixtures thereof.More specifically, the metal micelle asbestos comprises the reaction product of asbestos fibres with a a metal weak base stron acid ion system, wherein the system comprises i an aqueous solution containing at least three ions, the three ions including a cation from a weak base, an anion from a strong acid and a metal ion, or ii an aqueous solution containing at least two ions, said two ions including a cation from a weak base and a metal containing anion from a strong acid, or b a metal strong base weak acid ion system, wherein the system comprises an aqueous solution containing at least three ions, the three ions including a cation from a strong base, an anion from a weak acid and a metal ion, wherein the metal is selected from the group consisting of manganese, chromium, cobalt, iron, copper, aluminum and mixutures thereof. The invention is also directed to the following metalmicelle asbestos a a metal micelle chrysotile asbestos having repeating units of the formulaEMI15.1 b a metal micelle amosite asbestos having repeating units of the formulaEMI15.2 c a metal micelle anthophyllite asbestos having repeating units of the formulaEMI15.3 d a metal micelle crocidolite asbestos having repeating units of the formulaEMI15.4 wherein Me in compounds a d is a metal selected from the group consisting of manganese, chromium, cobalt, iron, copper, aluminum or mixtures thereof. Preferably, Me is iron Fe .The invention also relates to a method for decontaminating a water supply containing silicate minerals, such as asbestos fibres, by contacting the silicates in the water supply with a weak base, strong acid or strong base, weak acid salt of manganese, chromium, cobalt, iron, copper, aluminum or mixtures thereof. The preferred salt for removing asbestos fibre in this embodiment of the invention is A lNH4 SO4 2. Additionally, the invention relates to a method for removing acidic iron from such sources as mine drainage by contacting the acidic iron bearing source at a pH of about 1 to 8, with a silicate mineral.The invention further relates to the use of the metalmicelle asbestos and other metal micelle silicate compositions in any of the currently employed or future technological applications of asbestos and other silicate minerals, including those outlined in the Background portion of this Specification.The invention also relates to a method for lowering the magnetic rating of iron containing silicate minerals, such as asbestos fibre, comprising the step of contacting the iron containing silicate with a an aqueous solution of a weak base, strong acid or strong base, weak acid salt or b an aqueous solution of a weak base, strong acid or strong base, weak acid salt of manganese, chromium, cobalt, iron, copper, aluminum or mixtures thereof. The invention also relates to a method for reducing the environmental hazards inherent in the packaging and shipping of dry silicate minerals, including asbestos. In one embodiment of this method of the invention, a metal micelle silicate is formed by contacting a silicate mineral with an aqueous solution of a weak base, strong acid or strong base, weak acid salt of manganese, chromium, cobalt, iron, copper, aluminum or mixtures thereof. The metal micelle silicate can be packaged or shipped prior to dewatering.In another embodiment of this method of the invention, the silicate mineral, rather than being converted to a metalmicelle silicate, is simply contacted with an aqueous solution of a weak base, strong acid or strong base, weak acid salt. The treated silicate can be packaged or shipped prior to dewatering. Detailed description of the preferred embodimentsIt has been discovered that contacting asbestos fibres with an aqueous solution of a compound selected from the group consisting of a weak base, strong acid or strong base, weak acid salt of manganese, chromium, cobalt, iron, copper, aluminum and mixtures thereof produces a metalmicelle asbestos which, if introduced into a living organism, decreases the irritation of living cells and thus inhibits the formation of ferruginous bodies which can result from contacting untreated asbestos fibres with living cells.More specifically, the asbestos fibre is contacted with a a metal weak base strong acid ion system, wherein the system comprises i an aqueous solution containing at least three ions, the three ions including a cation from a weak base, an anion from a strong acid and a metal ion, or ii an aqueous solution containing at least two ions, the two ions including a cation from a weak base and a metal containing anion from a strong acid, or b a metal strong base weak acid ion system, wherein the system comprises an aqueous solution containing at least three ions, the three ions including a cation from a strong base, an anion from a weak acid and a metal ion, wherein the metal is selected from the group consisting of manganese, chromium, cobalt, iron, copper, aluminum and mixtures thereof, and whereby the metal weak base strong acid ion system or the metal strong base weak acid ion system forms a metal micelle polymer asbestos by inducing formation of a metal micelle polymer coating on the asbestos fibre, the polymer coating being ionically bonded to the asbestos fibre.In particular, it has been discovered that contacting asbestos fibres with a metal strong base weak acid ion system, wherein the system comprises an aqueous solution of a cation from a strong base and an anion from a metal ion system constituting a weak acid, induces formation of a metal micelle polymer coating on the asbestos fibre.If introduced into a living organism, this metal micelle polymer coated asbestos fibre decreases the irritation of living cells and thus inhibits the formation of ferruginous bodies which can result from contacting untreated asbestos fibres with living cells.In general, the process for preparation of metal micelle asbestos is effected by preparing a slurry of up to 3 by weight of asbestos fibres in an aqueous solution of an appropriate metal salt. In preparing iron micelle asbestos, the reaction of the iron salt and asbestos appears to occur immediately. The types of asbestos fibres useful in the present invention may be any available grade of chrysotile, amosite, crocidolite or anthophyllite. Moreover, any material containing asbestos fibres may also be treated in accordance with the present invention. Further, it is believed that the treatment of the present invention, utilizing the same process parameters as disclosed herein for the treatment of asbestos, will render all other silicate minerals in addition to asbestos, less harmful.A micelle is defined as an electrically charged colloidal particle, usually organic in nature, compos ed of aggregates of large molecules, such as occurs in soaps and surfactants. A metal micelle is normally amorphous. Metalmicelle polymers are polymers of metal salts, oxides or hydrates which show decreasing solubility as a function of hydrogen ion content and degree of polymerization. In accordance with thr present invention, the electronegative silicates of hydrates asbestos and other silicate minerals act as sites for combination with electropositive metal micelle polymers. A strong ionic bond is formed between the SiO of the asbestos or other silicate mineral and the metal and an ionically bonded metal micelle polymer coating, comprising repeated Me O Me O units, forms on the asbestos fibre or other silicate mineral.The metal micelle asbestosor other silicate polymer of the present invention is thus more highly ordered than normal metal micelles.In addition to providing sites for deposition of electropositive metal micelles, the hydrated asbestos fibre and other silicate minerals of the present invention also appear to provide a catalytic surface for increasing the rate and extent of polymerization. The rate and extend of polymerization in accordance with the present invention also depend on the presence of other constituents, such as ammonium ions, sulfates, the presence or absence of dissolved gases, solubility of ions, oxidation state of the metal, and temperature.In order for polymerization to occur to an extend sufficient to block the biologically reactive sites of the asbestos fibre in order to decrease the irritation of living cells and thus inhibit substantially the formation of ferruginous bodies, an aqueous solution of a weak base, strong acid or strong base, weak acid salt of manganese, chromium, cobalt, iron, copper and aluminum is contacted with asbestos fibres at a pH in the range of from about 1 to about 8. More preferably, the pH is in the range of from about 3 to 7. Although metal micelle formation occurs outside these pH ranges, it occurs more slowly and less completely.Formation of asbestos metal micelle from appropriate salts of iron, cobalt, manganese, chromium, copper, aluminum or mixutures thereof is enhanced by increasing the pH of the solution. Accordingly, higher values within the preferred pH range of from about 1 to about 8 are specifically preferred in order to ensure sufficient polymerization.Use of a weak base strong acid or a strong base weak acid salt system provides a stable pH for micelle formation.Strong acids for these systems are defined as those acids having a pK log acidity constant less than the pK of the hydrated aqueous metal ion. For example, in the aqueous ferric ion system, a strong acid would be any acid with a pK less than 2.2, and in the aqueous aluminum ion system, a strong acid would be any acid with a pK less than 4,9. Weak bases suitable for use in strong acid weak base systems include ammonium hydroxide, bicarbonates and nitrogen containing organic bases. Specific examples of suitable weak bases, in addition to ammonium hydroxide, include sodium bicarbonate, calcium bicarbonate, and such nitrogen containing organic bases as amines or alcohol or alkylol amines, including, for example, monodi, and triethanolamine and mixtures thereof, propanolamines, butanolamines, polynitrogenous amines such as ethylene diamine, ethylene triamine and the like, pyridine, methylpyridine, piperidine, quaternary ammonium bases such as tetraethyl ammonium hydroxide, tetra methyl ammonium hydroxide, and in general, primary, secondary and tertiary amines substituted or not with other radicals such as hydroxy, alkyl, aryl, cycloalkyl groups and the like.Certain aqueous metal ion systems constitute weak acids and addition of a strong base such as sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, etc., can induce formation of a metal micelle by a direct interaction. These metal strong base weak acid ion systems comprise an aqueous solution of a cation from a strong base and an anion from a metal ion system constituting a weak acid.Representative examples of weak acids that may be used in the present invention include linoleic acid, stearic acid, oleic acid, lauric acid, capric acid, caprylic acid, ethylhexoic acid, boric acid, hypochlorous acid, carbonix acid and acetic acid.Representative metal strong base weak acid ion systems include chromic III acetate and sodium hydroxide chromium VI acetate and sodium hydroxide cobalt III acetate and sodium hydroxide cupric II acetate and sodium hydroxide and ferric III acetate and sodium hydroxide.Other representative systems for providing a pH conductive to micelle formation in accordance with the present invention are Strong Acid Weak Base Systems 1 Hydrochloric acid ammonium hydroxide, amines, bicarbonate 2 Nitric acid ammonium hydroxide, amines, bicarbonates and 3 Sulfuric acid ammonium hydroxide, amines, bicarbo nate. Weak Acid Strong Base Systems 1 Boric acid sodium hydroxide 2 Acetic acid sodium hydroxide and 3 Carbonic acid sodium hydroxide.The presently preferred metal salts for forming metalmicelle asbestos are NH4Fe SO4 2 ammonium ferric sulfate and NH4Fe SO4 2 . 12H20 ammonium ferric sulfate dodecahydrate .Aqueous solutions of these compounds consist of an NH ion a cation from a weak base, ammonium hydroxide , Fe a metal ion and S04 an anion from a strong acid, sufuric acid .The sulfate ion is particularly preferred because as used in the present invention, it decreases the solubility of metals in the highest oxidation states and thus enhances precipitation of a metal micelle polymer. Anions such as nitrates, chlorides, and halides, although useful, are not preferred because they increase the solubility of metal ions and thus interfere with the formation of the desired metal micelle polymer.The reaction of the present invention is operable at room temperature. Increased reaction temperature, however, enhances formation of metal micelle asbestos, at least partly by eliminating dissolved gases such as oxygen and carbon dioxide from the reaction medium. If present, such dissolved gases interfere somewhat with the formation of the metal micelle polymer . Accordingly, a preferred range of temperature is from about 2O0C to about 100 C, with the higher temperatures in the range being more preferred.The present invention comprehends the addition of any and all amounts of metal to asbestos fibres or other silicate minerals to form a metal micelle polymer. From the biological tests described herein, however, it appears that the metal micelle asbestos of the present invention should contain at least about 5 more metal than the untreated asbestos fibre in order to effectively decrease the irritation of living cells. If, however, the metalmicelle asbestos of the present invention contains about 18 or more by weight additional metal, the strength of the resulting metal micelle asbestos is somewhat less than that of the untreated asbestos and may thus be unacceptable for certain applications, such as asbestos cement. Accordingly, the preferred range of added metal in the metal micelle is from about 5 to about 18 by weight, based on the total weight of the metal in the metal micelle. The most preferred embodiment of the invention is directed to a metal micelle asbestos having from about 5 to 10 by weight more metal than the untreated asbestos.For other applications, such as insulating materials, binding agents for plastics, resins, asphalt and rubberized materials heat resistant materials such as paper boards and preparation of yarn, cloths, ribbons, filters and similar woven materials the ten to twenty percent decreased strength of a metal micelle asbestos containing about 18 or more by weight additional metal will not be important. Moreover, even though higher percentages of metal appear to decrease the strength of the metalmicelle asbestos, the metal micelle asbestos is Sill stronger than traditional substitutes for asbestos. For example, a metal micelle asbestos containing 18 more metal by weight than the untreated asbestos is more than twice as strong as fibrous glass.Accordingly, any decreased strength of metal micelle asbestos may well be considered insignificant in light of the maximum strength of alternative materials and the elimination of health hazards provided by the metal micelle asbestos of the present invention.Moreover, a metal micelle asbestos containing more than about 10 additional iron by weight appears to necessitate a longer draining time. This could be disadvantageous in certain processes utilizing asbestos materials, such as, for example, in the present production of asbestos cement. Nonetheless, the strength of the final cement product treated in accordance with the present invention to contain a metal micelle asbestos having from about 10 to 18 additional iron will be equivalent to the strength of currently produced asbestos cement. In other instances, such as use of the metal micelle asbestos of thepresent invention as a binding agent, insulating material, or for reinforcing of resins, a longer draining time is unimportant. Additionally, it is highly possible that any disadvantages resulting from longer draining time in a particular process will be outweighed by the reduction in health hazards resulting from the formation of the metal micelle polymer.The aqueous solution of metal salt may be sprayed onto asbestos materials containing asbestos, silicates, or materials containing silicate by means well known in the art. Other means for applying the metal salt to the silicate mineral, including asbestos, include steam pressurization, dipping parts in a bath containing a micelle forming solution and use of a brush, roller or other hand application techniques.The schematic diagram in Fig. 1 illustrates a production process for treating asbestos in accordance with the present invention, Initially, water, asbestos, and an appropriate metal are introduced into a reaction vessel in which both pH and temperature can be carefully controlled. Following reaction, the contents of the reaction vessel, including the reaction product, metal micelle asbestos, are conveyed to a well known means for effecting settling and separation. After settling and separation, the reaction product is conveyed to a dewatering means such as a centrifuge, a belt filter or a vibrating screen. After dewatering, the reaction product can be packaged and shipped as a wet cake, thus reducing biological hazards associated with the handling of dry asbestos like materials. The wet cake contains approcimately 10 20 by weight water.Furthermore, packaging and shipping as a wet cake in no way diminishes the desirable properties of the metal micelle asbestos.Alternatively, after dewatering, the reaction product is conveyed to a fluffed, such as a rotating disc or blade shredder, followed by drying in such means as a cyclone or a rotary forced hot air draft. After drying, the reaction product is packaged for shipping.In employing the teachings of the present invention for decontaminating water containing asbestos fibres, a preferred metal salt is AINH4 SO4 2 . The AlNH4 S04 2 salt reacts with the other asbestos fibres to form a flocculant which can be physically separated from the water by means well known in the art.In utilizing the present invention to remove acidic iron from an aqueous source such as acid mine drainage, it is preferred that the acid mine drainage be filtered through an asbestos mat in the presence of sufficient ammonia or other base to achieve a reaction pH of from about 1 to about 8. The resulting iron micelle asbestos mat could subsequently be used in such typical applications of asbestos as cemtns, asphalts and insulation products.A metal micelle asbestos has a lower magnetic rating than asbestos not treated in accordance with the present invention. Even if a metal micelle is not formed, however, the present invention can decrease the magnetic rating of ir on containing silicate minerals. To lower the magnetic rating of an iron containing silicate, such as asbestos fibre, and thus decrease its electrical conductivity, without forming a metal micelle, the iron containing silicate is preferably contacted with a sufficient amount of an aqueous solution of a weak base, strong acid or strong base, weak acid salt, such as those described above in this detailed description, in the absence of a metal selected from the group consisting of manganese, chromium, cobalt, iron, copper, aluminum or mixtures thereof, to carry the reaction out at a pH in the range of from about 1 to about 8, with a pH in the higher end of the range being preferred. The weak base, strong acid or strong base, weak acid salt may be formed in situ by adding, to an aqueous slurry of asbestos fibres, appropriate weak bases and strong acids or strong bases and weak acids.Preferably, the reaction occurs in the temperature range of from about 2O0C to about 1000C. This treatment, whether or not a metal micelle is formed, removes or masks magnetite magnetic iron and solubilizes Mg Mg OH 2 ions from the asbestos. This treatment decreases the magnetic rating, which consequently enhances the insulation properties of the asbestos fibres. In utilizing the present invention to form cement, means well known in the art are used to prepare a composition containing 80 to about 90 by weight calcium oxide and sand and from about 10 to about 20 by weight of a metal micelle asbestos or other metal micelle silicate.In rendering silicate minerals, such as thos contained in coal, less likely to cause black lung disease to those exposed to coal, the coal could be sprayed with an aqueous micelle forming solution at the mine base. This aqueous treatment would keep dust down, as well as convert the silicate minerals to less harmful metal micelle silicates. DescriptionThe following examples are designed to elucidate the teachings of the present invention, and in no way limit the scope of the invention. Various other modifications and equivalents of the examples will readily suggest themselves to those skilled in the art, particularly after the issuance of this patent, without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention.Examples 1 40 relate to untreated asbestos, hydrated asbestos, and asbestos treated in accordance with the present invention. The products and untreated asbestos ofExamples 1 21 were submitted for the analyses outlined in Examples 43 45. The products and untreated asbestos ofExamples 23 32 were subjected to the comparative analyses detailed in Examples 42, including parts A G. The products and untreated asbestos of Examples 33 40 were biologically tested as outlined in Example 41. EXAMPLE 1Chrysotile, Union Carbide Grade 7, produced at the UnionCarbide mine near King City, California, was obtained as a 100 pound sample in a standard commercial bag. A 1 liter bulk sample was removed for comparative analysis to be described hereafter. EXAMPLE 2Chrysotile, Calaveras Asbestos Grade 6, produced at theCalaveras mine located near Copperopolis, California, was obtained as a 100 pound sample in a standard commercial bag. A 1 liter bulk sample was removed for comparative analyses to be described hereafter EXAMPLE 3Amosite, S33 85, of unspecified source, was obtained as a bulk sample from the North American Co., Chicago,Illinois, A 1 liter bulk sample was removed for comparative analyses to be described hereafter. EXAMPLE 4Crocidolite, Grade H, blue asbestos, of unspecified source was obtained as a bulk sample from the NorthAmerican Cho., Chicago, Illinois. A 1 liter bulk sample was removed for comparative analyses to be described hereafter. EXAMPLE 5 39,9 grams of Chrysotile, Union Carbide Grade 7 asbestos selected from the sample mentioned in Example 1 were added to 3,500 ml of deionized water at 100 C to form a slurry. The slurry was agitated for 10 minutes, removed from the heat source and allowed to cool while the asbestos settled. The hydrated asbestos was collected on aWhatman No. 1 filter by vacuum filtration, followed by drying at 110C for 16 hours. The resulting asbestos fibres were resuspended by agitation with a blender at the highest setting for one minte and 39,0 grams of pro duct were recovered. Bulk density of the resuspended product was 0,160 g cc. EXAMPLE 6 41,6 grams of Chrysotile, Calaveras Grade 6 asbestos, selected from the sample mentioned in Example 2, were added to 3,500 ml of deionized water at 100 C to form a slurry.The slurry was agitated for 10 minutes, removed from theheat source and allowed to cool while the asbestos settled. The hydrated asbestos was collected on aWhatman No. 1 filter by vacuum filtration, followed by drying at 1100C for 16 hours. The resulting asbestos fibres were resuspended by agitating with a blender at the highest setting.for one minute and 40,9 grams of product were recovered, with a bulk density of 0,166 g cc. EXAMPLE 7 27,6 grams of Amosite, S33 85 asbestos, selected from the sample mentioned in Example 3, were added to 3,500 ml of deionized water at 100 C to form a slurry. the slurry was agitated for 10 minutes, removed from the heat source and allowed to cool while the asbestos settled.A black oily film separated and formed a separate layer on top of the water. The oily film was removed and discarded. The hydrated asbestos was collected on a Whatman No. 1 filter by vacuum filtration, followed by drying at 110C for 16 hours The resulting asbestos fibres were resuspended by agitation with a blender at the highest setting for one minute, and 23,2 grams of product were recovered, with a bulk density of O,o90 g cc. EXAMPLE 8 41,3 grams of Crocidolite, Grade H Blue asbestos selected from the sample mentioned in Example 4, were added to 3,500 ml of deionized water at 100 C to form a slurry. The slurry was agitated for 10 minutes, removed from the heat source and allowed to cool while the asbestos settled.The hydrated asbestos was collected on a Whatman No. 1 filter by vacuum filtration, followed by drying at 1100C for 16 hours. The resulting asbestos fibres were resuspended by agitation with a blender at the highest setting for one minute, and 40,6 grams of product were recovered, with a bulk density of 0,162 g cc. EXAMPLE 9 35,4 grams of Chrysotile, Union Carbide Grade 7 asbestos, selected from the sample mentioned in Example 1 were added to a solution containing 70,8 grams of NH4Fe S04 2 2H20 ferric ammonium sulfate dodecahydrate in 3,500 ml of deionized water at 1100C to form a slurry. The aqueous, iron salt solution showed a red to brown color which quickly turned yellow brown on addition of the asbestos. A precipitate, an iron micelle, formed on the asbestos fibre. The suspension of micelle asbestos was agitated for 10 minutes, removed from the heat source, and allowed to cool while the iron micelle asbestos settled.The supernatant was clear with a slight yellow tinge. The iron micelle asbestos was collected on a Whatman No. 1 filter by vacuum filtration. The filtrate was clear, and the pH was measured to be 1,8. The iron micelle asbestos sample was dried at 1100C for 16 hours. The dry fibrous product was resuspended by agitation with a blender at the highest setting for one minute, and 41 grams of product were recovered, with a bulk density of 0,163 g cc. EXAMPLE 10 63, 6 grams of Chrysotile, Grade 6 Calaveras asbestos, selected from the sample mentioned in Example 2 were added to a solution containing 127,2 grams of NH4Fe SO4 2 . , 12Hi0 ferric ammonium sulfate dodecahydrate in 3,500 ml of deionized water at 100 C to form a slurry. The solution of the iron salt showed a red to brown color which quickly turned yellow brown on addition of the asbestos. A precipitate formed on the asbestos fibre. The suspension of micelle asbestos was agitated for 10 minutes, removed from the heat source and allowed to cool while the ironmicelle asbestos settled. The supernatant was clear with a slight yellow tinge. The product was collected on aWhatman No. 1 filter by vacuum filtration. The filtrate was clear, and the pH was measured to be 1,7. The product was dried at 110 C for 16 hours. The dry fibrous product was resuspended by agitation with a blender at the highest setting for one minute. 74 grams of product were obtained, with a bulk density of 0,074 g cc. EXAMPLE 11 24,7 grams of Amosite, Grade S33 85 asbestos, selected from the sample mentioned in Example 3, were added to a solution containing 49,4 grams of NH4Fe S04 2 x 12H20 ferric ammonium sulfate dodecahydrate in 3,500 ml of deionized water at 110 C to form a slurry. The solution of the iron salt showed a red to brown color which quickly turned yellow brown on addition of the asbestos. A precipitate formed on the asbestos fibre. The suspension of micelle asbestos was agitated for 10 minutes, removed from the heat source, and allowed to cool while the iron micelle asbestos settled. The supernatant was clear with a slight yellow tinge. The product was collected on a Whatman No. 1 filter by vacuum filtration. The filtrate was clear, and the pH was measured to be 1,7. The product was dried at 110 C for 16 hours. The dry fibrous product was resuspended by agitation with a blender at the highest setting for one minute. 31 grams of product were obtained, with a bulk density of 0,031 g cc. EXAMPLE 12 46,1 grams of Crocidolite, Grade H Blue asbestos, selected from the sample mentioned in Example 4 were added to a solution containing 92,2 grams NH4Fe S04 2 . 12H20 ferric ammonium sulfate dodecahydrate in 3,500 ml of deionized water at 100 C to form a slurry. The solution of the iron salt showed a red to brown color which quickly turned yellow brown on addition of the asbestos. A precipitate formed on the asbestos fibre. The suspension of the asbestos was agitated for 10 minutes, removed from the heat source, and allowed to cool while the iron micelle asbestos settled. The supernatant was clear with a slight yellow tinge. The product was collected on a Whatman No.1 filter by vacuum filtration. The filtrate was clear, and the pH was 1,7. The product was dried at 1100C for 16 hours. The dry fibrous product was resuspended by agitation with a blender at the highest setting for one minute. 52 grams of product were obtained, with a bulk density of 0,052 g cc. EXAMPLE 13 35,6 grams of Chrysotile, Union Carbide Grade 7 asbestos, selected from the sample mentioned in Example 1, was added to a solution containing 40,0 grams of cobalt sulfate heptahydrate in 3,500 ml of deionized water at 100 C to form a slurry. The solution of cobalt sulfate was dark red, and the asbestos suspension was stirred to provide a uniform dispersion. 30 ml of 30 reagent grade ammonium hydroxide was added to the slurry. A copius, flocculant, and blue precipitate formed on the asbestos surface. After allowing the cobalt micelle asbestos to settle, the solution was clear and colorless. The product was collected on a Whatman No. 1 filter by vacuum filtratiom. The filtrate was clear with a pH of 8,6. The asbestos was dried at 1100C for 16 hours.The dry fibrous product was resuspended by agitation with a blender at the highest setting for one minute. The product was free flowing and had a uniform blue color. The bulk density of the product was about 0,25 g cc. EXAMPLE 14 20 grams of Chrysotile, Union Carbide Grade 7 asbestos, selected from the sample mentioned in Example 1 were added to a solution containing 20 grams of Cr203 Chromium III oxide in 3,500 ml of deionized water at 1000C to form a slurry. The suspension was made alkaline by the addition of 30 ml of 30 reagent grade ammonium hydroxide. Heating at 100 C was continued for 30 minutes. The suspension was removed from the heat source, and the solution was allowed to cool while the chromium micelle asbestos settled. The sample was collected on a Whatman No. I filter by vaccum filtration. The filtrate was clear and its pH was 8,7.The sample was dried at 110 C for 16 hours The dry fibrous product was resuspended by agitating with a blender at the highest setting for one minute. The product was free flowing and had a uniform green color. The bulk density of the product was about 0,20 g cc. EXAMPLE 15 20 grams of Chrysotile, Union Carbide Grade 7 asbestos, selected from the sample mentioned Example 1, were mixed with 20. grams of chromium III oxide by using a blender at high speed for one minute. EXAMPLE 16 37,6 grams of Chrysotile, Union Carbide Grade 7, asbestos, selected from the sample mentioned in Example 1, were added to a solution containing 24,0 grams of manganese sulfate in 3,5 liters of deionized water at 1000C. This was followed by addition of 30,0 ml of reagent grade ammonium hydroxide 30 concentration . The suspension was removed from the heat source and allowed to cool and settle. The manganese micelle asbestos was collected by vacuum filtration on a Whatman No. 1 filter. The micelle asbestos was removed and dried at 110 C for 16 hours.The dry manganese micelle asbestos was suspended using a blender at high speed for one minute. The sample was dark brown and had a bulk density of 0,2 g cc. EXAMPLE 17 40 grams of Chrysotile, Union Carbide Grade 7 asbestos, selected from the sample mentioned in Example 1, were mixed with 15 grams of ferric oxide by using a blender at high speed for one minute. EXAMPLE 18 40 grams of Chrysotile, Grade 6 Calaveras asbestos, selected from the sample mentioned in Example 2, were added to a solution containing 80 grams of NH4Fe S04 2 12H20 ferric ammonium sulfate dodecahydrate in 3,500 ml of deionized water at 220C to form a slurry. The suspension was allowed to stand for two hours with periodic stirring. The solution retained a red to brown.color. The iron micelle asbestos was allowed to settle, and was collected on a Whatman No. 1 filter by vacuum filtration. The pH of the filtrate was 2,3. The ironmicelle asbestos was dried at 110C for 16 hours. The dry fibrous iron micelle asbestos was resuspended by agitation with a blender at the highest setting for one minute and 35,6 grams of the micelle product were recovered. Bulk density of the product was 0,142 g cc. EXAMPLE 19 40 grams of Chrysotile, Grade 6 Calaveras asbestos selected from the sample mentioned in Example 2, were treated with the aqueous iron salt solution of Example 18, under the same conditions as in Example 18, except that 10 ml of 37 ammonium hydroxide were added. The pH of the filtrate was 2,4 and 61,8 grams of the micelle product were recovered. The bulk density of the final product was 0,247 g cc. EXAMPLE 20 40 grams of Chrysotile, Grade 6 Calaveras asbestos selected from the sample mentioned in Example 2 were treated with the aqueous iron salt solution of Example 18 under the same conditions as in Example 18, except 30 ml of 37 ammonium hydroxide was added to the slurry. The pH of the filtrate was measured to be 3,4, and 58,6 grams of the micelle product were recovered. The bulk density of the final product was 0,232 g cc. EXAMPLE 21 2 kilograms of Chrysotile, Grade 6 Calaveras asbestos, selected from the sample mentioned in Example 2, were added to a solution containing 5 kilograms of NH4Fe S04 2 12H20 ferric ammonium sulfate dodecahydrate in 120 liters of tap water at 70 806C to form a slurry. The slurry was stirred vigorously to produce a uniform dispersion of asbestos fibre and 1 liter of 37 ammonium hydroxide was added to ensure a complete precipitation of ferric iron onto the asbestos surface. The micelle asbestos product was allowed to settle, and the clear supernatant was decanted through a burlap cloth supported by a 1 4 inch wiremesh screen. The iron micelle asbestos was collected by decanting the settled slurry through the burlap cloth. The resulting hydrous cake of iron micelle asbestos was dried at 1100 to 1350C for 72 hours.The dry fibrous iron micelle asbestos was resuspended by agitation with a blender at the highest setting for one minute. EXAMPLE 22 1 Kilogram each of Chrysotile Grades 4T and 5R asbestos provided by Calaveras Asbestos Company, was added to a solution containing 2 kilograms of NH4Fe S04 2 , 12H20 ferric ammonium sulfate dodecahydrate in 100 liters of tap water at 80 C to form a slurry. The solution was made alkaline by addition of 500 ml of reagent grade ammonium hydroxide. The suspension was allowed to settle and cool.The iron micelle asbestos was dark red brown and was collected by filtration using a coarse burlap filter. The micelle asbestos was dried at 1400C for 72 hours and then resuspended as a fibrous product by agitating small portions for one minute using a blender at the highest setting. EXAMPLE 23Chrysotile, Calaveras 5R Grade was obtained from Calaveras Asbestos Company. The surface area was reported byCalaveras to be 4,500 cm2 g. EXAMPLE 24 2 kilograms of Chrysotile, Calaveras 5R Grade asbestos obtained from the Calaveras Asbestos Company with a reported surface area of 4,500 cm2 g were suspended in 100 liters of water at 800C. The suspension was stirred for 10 minutes and allowed to settle and cool. The hydrated asbestos was collected by gravity filtration using a coarse burlap filter. A pressed filter cake of hydrated asbestos was sealed in a water tight plastic bag and submitted to the Ontario Research Foundation for tests, described hereafter, as a hydrous cake having asurface area of 4,500 cm2 g. EXAMPLE 25 2 kilograms of Chrysotile, Calaveras 5R Grade asbestos obtained from the Calaveras Asbestos Company with a reported surface area of 4,500 cm2 g were added to a solution containing 4 kilograms of NH4Fe S04 2 . 12H20 ferric ammonium sulfate dodecahydrate in 100 liters of water at 800C to form a slurry. This was followed by addition of 1 liter of reagent grade ammonium hydroxide 30 concentration . The suspension was stirred for 10 minutes and allowed to settle and cool. The iron micelle asbestos was collected by gravity filtration using a coarse burlap filter.A pressed filter cake of the micelle asbestos was sealed in a water tight plastic bag and submitted to the OntarioResearch Foundation for tests, described hereafter, as a hydrous treated cake, having 18 more iron than the untreated asbestos and having a surface area of 4,500 cm2 g. EXAMPLE 26 20 kilograms of Chrysotile, Calaveras 5R Grade asbestos from the same bag as the asbestos used in Example 23 were submitted for further processing by Calaveras Asbestos and were processed to yield a reported surface area of 13,400 cm2 g. A 2 kilogram sample of this dry fibre was submitted to the Ontario Research Foundation for tests described hereafter. EXAMPLE 27 2 kilograms of Chrysotile, Calaveras 5R Grade asbestos purchased from the Calaveras Asbestos Company with a 2 reported surface area of 13,400 cm2 g was suspended in 100 liters of water at 80 C to form a slurry. The suspension was stirred for 10 minutes and allowed to settle and cool. The hydrated asbestos was collected by gravity filtration using a coarse burlap filter. A pressed filter cake of the hydrated asbestos was sealed in a watertight plastic bag and submitted to the Ontario ResearchFoundation for tests, described hereafter, as a hydrous cake. EXAMPLE 28 2 kilograms of Chrysotile, Calaveras 5R Grade asbestos purchased from Calaveras Asbestos Company with a reported surface area of 13,400 cm2 g were suspended in a solution containing 1 kilogram of NH4Fe S04 2 . 12H20 ferric ammonium sulfate dodecahydrate in 100 liters of water at 800C to form a slurry. This was followed by addition of 250 ml of reagent grade ammonium hydroxide 30 concentration to the slurry. The suspension was stirred for 10 minutes and allowed to settle and cool. The ironmicelle asbestos was collected by gravity filtration using a coarse burlap filter.A pressed filter cake of the micelle asbestos was sealed in a water tight plastic bag and submitted to the Ontario Research Foundation for tests, described hereafter, as a hydrous treated cake, having 5 more iron than the untreated asbestos and having a surface area of 13,400 cm2 g. EXAMPLE 29 2 kilograms of Chrysotile, Calaveras 5R Grade asbestos purchased from Calaveras Asbestos Company with a reported surface area of 13,400 cm2 g were suspended in a solution containing 2 kilograms of NH4Fe S04 2 . 12H20 ferric ammonium sulfate dodecahydrate in 100 liters of water at 800C to form a slurry. This was followed by addition of 500 ml of reagent grade ammonium hydroxide 30 concentration to the slurry. The suspension was stirred for 10 minutes and allowed to settle and cool. The iron micelle asbestos was collected by gravity filtration using a coarse burlap filter.A pressed filter cake of the micelle asbestos was sealed in a water tight plastic bag and submitted to the Ontario Research Foundation for tests, described hereafter, as a hydrous treated cake having 10 more iron than the untreated asbestos and having a sur 2 face area of 13,400 cm g. EXAMPLE 30 2 kilograms of Chrysotile, Calaveras 5R Grade asbestps purchased from Calaveras Asbestos Company with a reported surface area of 13,400 cm2 g were suspended in a solution containing 4 kilograms of NH4Fe S04 . 12H20 ferric ammonium sulfate dodecahydrate in 100 liters of water at 800C to form a slurry. This was followed by addition of 1 liter of reagent grade ammonium hydroxide 30 concentration to the slurry. The suspension was stirred for 10 minutes and allowed to settle and cool.The iron micelle asbestos was collected by gravity filtration using a coarse burlap filter. A pressed filter cake of the micelle asbestos was sealed in a water tight plastic bag and submitted to the Ontario ResearchFoundation for tests, described hereafter, as a hydrous treated cake having 18 more iron than the untreated asbestos and having a surface area of 13,400 cm2 g. EXAMPLE 31Cassiar Chrysotile, AAA Grade asbestos was obtained from the Ontario Research Foundation and resubmitted as received to the Ontario Research Foundation for tests, described hereafter. EXAMPLES 32 1,5 kilograms of Cassiar Chrysotile, AAA Grade asbestos obtained from the Ontario Research Foundation were suspended in a solution containing 1,5 kilograms ofNH4Fe S04 2 12H20 ferric ammonium sulfate dodecahydrate in 100 liters of water at 8d0C to form a slurry. This was followed by addition of 400 ml of reagent grade ammonium hydroxide 30 concentration to the slurry. The suspension was stirred for 10 minutes and allowed to cool and settle. The iron micelle asbestos was collected by gravity filtration using a coarse burlap filter. A pressed filter cake of the micelle asbestos was sealed in a water tight plastic bag and submitted to the OntarioResearch Foundation for tests, described hereafter.The micelle asbestos contained 10 more iron than the untreated asbestos. EXAMPLE 33A 1 gram sample of Chrysotile B asbestos obtained from theInternational Union Contra Cancer UICC was agitated for one minute using a blender at the highest setting. EXAMPLE 34A 1,0 gram sample of UICC Chrysotile B asbestos was added to 100 ml of a 1 ammonium sulfate solution and heated at 100 C for 10 minutes. The suspension was removed from the heat source and was allowed to settle and cool. The hydrated asbestos was collected by air pressure filtration using a millipore filter. A filter cake of the hydrated asbestos was removed from the milipore filter and was dried at 1100C for 2 hours. The dry cake was suspended as a fibrous product using a blender at the highest speed for one minute. EXAMPLE 35A 1,0 gram sample of UICC Chrysotile B asbestos was added to 100 ml of deionized water at 1000C. 0,5 grams of powdered NH4Fe S04 2 . 12H20 ferric ammonium sulfate dodecahydrate were added to the suspension. This was followed by addition of 0,125 ml of reagent grade ammonium hydroxide 30 concentration and the suspension was maintained at 100 C for 10 minutes. The suspension was removed from the heat source and was allowed to cool and settle. The brown iron micelle asbestos was collected by air pressure filtration using a millipore filter. A filter cake of the micelle asbestos was removed from the millipore filter and was dried at 110C for 2 hours. The dry cake was suspended as a fibrous product using a blender at the highest speed for one minute. The iron micelle asbestos contained 5 by weight more iron than the untreated asbestos. EXAMPLE 36A 1,0 gram sample of UICC Chrysotile B asbestos was added to 100 ml of deionized water at 1000C. 1,0 gram of powdered NH4Fe S04 2 . 12H20 ferric ammonium sulfate dodecahydrate was added to the suspension. This was followed by addition of 0,25 ml of reagent grade ammonium hydroxide 30 concentration . The suspension was maintained at 1000C for 10 minutes. The suspension was removed from the heat source and was allowed to cool and settle. The dark brown iron micelle asbestos was collected by air pressure filtration using a millipore filter. A filter cake of the micelle asbestos was removed from the millipore filter and was dried at 1100C for two hours. The dry cake was suspended as a fibrous product using a blender at the highest speed for one minute.The iron micelle asbestos contained 10 by weight more iron than the untreated asbestos. EXAMPLE 37A 1,0 gram sample of UICC Amosite asbestos was agitated for one minute using a blender at the highest setting. EXAMPLE 38A 1,0 gram sample of UICC Amosite asbestos was added to 100 ml of a 1 ammonium sulfate solution and heated at 100 C for 10 minutes. The suspension was removed from the heat source and was allowed to cool and settle. The asbestos was collected by air pressure filtration using a millipore filter. A filter cake of the asbestos was removed from the millipore filter and was dried at 110 C for 2 hours. The dry asbestos cake was suspended as a fibrous product using a blender the highest setting for one minute. EXAMPLE 39A 1,0 gram sample of UICC Amosite asbestos was added to 100 ml of deionized water at 1000C. 0,5 grams of powderedNH4Fe S04 2 . 12H20 ferric ammonium sulfate dodecahydrate were added to the suspension. This was followed by addition of 0,125 ml of reagent grade ammonium hydroxide 30 concentration and the suspension was maintained at 100 C for 10 minutes. The suspension was removed from the heat source and was allowed to cool and settle. The brown iron micelle asbestos was collected by air pressure filtration using a millipore filter. A filter cake of the micelle asbestos was removed from the millipore filter and was dried at 110 C for 2 hours. The dry cake was suspen ded as a fibrous product using a blender at the highest speed for one minute. The iron micelle asbestos contained 5 by weight more iron than the untreated asbestos. EXAMPLE 40A 1,0 gram sample of UICC Amosite asbestos was added to 100 ml of deionized water at 1000C. 1,0 gram of powderedNH4Fe SO4 2 . 12H2O ferric ammonium sulfate dodecahydrate was added to the suspension. This was followed by adding 0,25 ml of reagent grade ammonium hydroxide 30 concentration and the suspension was maintained at 1000C for 10 minutes. The suspension was removed from the heat source and was allowed to cool and settle. The brown ironmicelle asbestos was collected by air pressure filtration using a millipore filter. A filter cake of the micelle asbestos was removed from the millipore filter and was dried at 1100C for two hours. The dry cake was suspended as a fibrous product using a blender at the highest speed for one minute. The iron micelle asbestos contained 10 more by weight iron than the untreated asbestos. EXAMPLE 41 BIOLOGICAL TESTINGThe products of Example 33 40 along with two control human lung macrophage cells P388D1 designated as C 2 and C 4, were evaluated for cytotoxicity. The results of this evaluation on human cells indicate that treatment of chrysotile asbestos fibres to contain 5 or 10 more iron decreases the cytotoxicity of the asbestos fibres.Moreover, the results indicate that treatment of amosite asbestos fibres to contain 10 more iron also decreases the cyctotoxicity of the asbestos fibres. A protocol for this assay was obtained from the NationalInstitutes of Health and has been described in Wade, M.J.,Lipkin, L.E., and Frank, A.L., Studies of In Vitro Asbestos Cell Interaction, 2 The Journal of EnvironmentalPathology and Toxicology, pages 1029 1039 1979 .The protocol for the assays is as follows 1 Flasks are planted with 1x106 P388D1 cells flask in 10 ml of Fischer s Medium 10 fetal calf serum 2 Stationary flasks are incubated at 37 0C und 5 e CO2 in air 3 After 24 hrs. the old medium is discarded, and 10 ml of fresh medium containing 100 pg ml of test sample is added to each flask Two controls are employed 1. P388D1 Cell Control 2. 100 ig ml UICC Amosite Asbestos and 4 After 48 hrs. the medium in all flasks is discarded, the cell sheet rinsed once with 10 ml of phosphate buffered saline, and 10 ml of fresh testsample free medium is added to each flask.Pictures are taken of 5 fields flask at time zero immediately before the addition of test sample and at 24, 48, and 72 hrs. after exposure.The cells appearing in each photograph are counted in a standardized manner by one observer. The total number of cells in the 5 fields flask are tallied for each time period. A record of each separate filed count is also maintained for future statistical analysis .The data points at 72 hrs. are analyzed statistically for cytotoxicity using the t Test for two independent means the cell control and the test sample Significance is assumed at probability 0,05. This procedure was modified slightly by using two observers to count the numbers of cells, rather than one.Fig. 2 is a photomicrograph of control C 2, unexposed to asbestos fibres, after seventy two hours.Fig. 3 is a photomicrograph of control C 4, also unexposed to asbestos fibres, after seventy two hours.Fig. 4 is a photomicrograph of cells after seventy two hours exposure at 100 Xug ml to the UICC Chrysotile B asbestos of Example 33.Fig. 5 is a photomicrograph of cells after seventy two hours exposure at 100 ug ml to the treated asbestos ofExample 34.Fig. 6 is a photomicrograph of cells after seventy two hours exposure at 100 pg ml to the iron micelle asbestos of Example 35, which contained 5 by weight more iron than the untreated asbestos.Fig. 7 is a photomicrograph of cells after sevnety two hours exposure at 100 pg ml to the iron micelle asbestos of Example 36, which contained 10 more iron by weight than the untreated asbestos.Fig. 8 is a photomicrograph of cells after seventy two hours exposure at 100 Sug ml to the UICC Amosite asbestos of Example 37.Fig. 9 is a photomicrograph of cells after seventy two hours exposure at 100 ug ml to the treated asbestos ofExample 38. Fig. 10 is a photomicrograph of cells after seventy two hours exposure at 100 ug ml to the iron micelle asbestos of Example 39, which contained 5 by weight more iron than the untreated asbestos.Fig. 11 is a photomicrograph of cells after seventy two hours exposure to 100 ug ml to the iron micelle asbestos of Example 40, which contained 10 by weight more iron than the untreated asbestos.The photomicrographs in Figs. 2 7, which represent typical results of the assays, as well as the plotted results in Fig. 12, show that treatment of chrysotile asbestos with an iron salt decreases the cytotoxicity of the asbestos fibres as indicated by the higher number of cells shown in Fig. 12 for cells treated with ironmicelle asbestos. Treatment of cells with the ironmicelle asbestos of Example 36 proved to be particularly affective.Moreover, the exposure of cells to chrysotile asbestos treated to contain an additional 10 by weight iron, as evidenced in Fig. 7, does not appear to affect the cells morphology. Although the total numbers of cells in cultures exposed to iron micelle asbestos appears to be less than for the controls, the number of cells in the micelle asbestos cultures is nonetheless greater than in the cultures exposed to asbestos lacking an iron treatment.As seen by the substantial decrease in the number of cells plotted in Fig. 12, as well as the rounded up morphology of the cells in the photomicrographs in Figs. 4 and 5, there is considerable cellular toxicity with untreated chrysotile or chrysotile treated with an ammonium sulfate solution. The photomicrographs in Figs. 8 11, which represent typical results of the assays, as well as the result plotted in Fig. 13, show that treatment of amosite asbestos with an iron salt to form a metal micelle asbestos containing an additional 10 by weight iron decreases the cytotoxicity of the asbestos fibres when applied at a concentration of 100 pg ml but not as dramatically as in the case of the chrysotile asbestos. At the same concentration, the treatment of amosite asbestos to contain an additional 5 by weight iron showed no statistically significant effect on cytotoxicity.However, further tests conducted using amosite asbestos treated to contain an additonal 5 by weight iron, but applying the treated amosite at the lower concentration of 50 lug ml showed a statistically significant effect on the cytotoxicity of the amosite asbestos fibres. EXAMPLE 42 Comparison of the Properties o Iron Micelle Asbestos and Untreated AsbestosIn order to asses whether asbestos retains its useful physical and chemical properties when treated with an aqueous solution of an iron salt in accordance with the present invention, physical and chemical properties of several iron treated asbestos fibre grades were compared with the properties of the same fibres before treatment and in some cases also with the properties of hydrated asbestos. The comparison indicated that, with certain exceptions, the physical and chemical properties of asbestos fibre and iron treated asbestos fibres are very similar.Tests performed by the Ontario Research Foundation, Mississauga, Ontario, Canada, included standard asbestos grading tests, asbestos cement properties, chemical resistance, resin absorption and measurement of thermal properties.Where appropriate, test were performed according to theAmerican Textile Institute Quebec Asbestos MiningAssociation, Asbestos Test Manual 1978 Revision or the most recent American Society for Testing and MaterialStandards.The tests were performed on the treated and untreatedmaterials described in Examples 23 32. The untreated asbestos fibres corresponding to Examples 23 and 31 were provided in a dry form. The asbestos fibres corresponding to Examples 24 30 and 32 were provided as water saturated cakes. Correction was made for the water content in all tests requiring a weighed amount of fibre.Routine grading tests were performed on the Cassiar AAA spinning fibres corresponding to Examples 31 and 32.The surface area of the AAA fibres corresponding toExample 31 was 4000 cm2g 1, The viscosity of dispersion of AAA fibre corresponding to Examples 31 and 32 was determined by Ford Cup and Falling Ball viscometry. EXAMPLE 42AThe following routine asbestos fibre tests were performed on the treated and untreated materials described inExamples 23 32. Bauer McNett Wet Classification ATI QAMA C 1 74 Turner and Newall Wet Classification ATI QAMA C 5 72 Turner and Newall Elutriation Freeness cement grade only ATI QAMA D 7 73 Magnetic Rating ATI QAME G 9 73 The Bauer McNett results, Turner and Newall Wet Classification, Turner and Newall Elutriation, Freeness andMagnetic Rating are presented in Tables I V for all fibres tested. In all the Tables, 5R and AAA, respectively, refer to Calaveras 5R cement grade chrysotile Fibre andCassiar AAA spinning grade chrysolite fibre and the source of each sample is identified by the appropriate Example number. No correction was made for the weight of iron deposited in the Cassiar AAA fibres. TABLE IBAUER McNETT RESULTS FOR TREATED AND UNTREATED FIBRES Average of two determinations Bauer McNett Surface Area Acc. Example cm2 g 4 14 14 35 200 200Example 23 4,500 8,2 15.0 23.2 24.0 13.0 39.8Example 24 4,500 10.2 17.3 27.5 23.7 11.7 37.1Example 25 4,500 12.4 15.4 27.8 19.0 10.4 42.8Example 26 13,400 5.6 10.7 16.3 24.6 16.0 43.1Example 27 13,400 6.4 11.0 17.4 25.0 17.2 40.4Example 30 13,400 8.1 8.0 16.1 16.2 11.8 55.9Example 31 4,000 80.6 2.6 83.2 2.5 3.3 11.0Example 32 4,000 83.8 2.7 86.5 2.4 2.3 8.8 Acc. is an abbreviation for supply term . TABLE IITURNER AND NEWALL WET CLASSIFICATION FOR TREATED AND UNTREATEDFIBRE average of two determinations Turner and Newall Classifier Surface Area Acc. GradeSample cm2 g 7 14 25 25 52 200 200 FactorExample 23 4,500 0.0 8.3 23.4 31.7 18.0 13.9 36.4 64Example 24 4,500 0.4 10..5 26.8 37.7 18.4 15.1 28.8 71Example 25 4,500 0.1 10.4 22.2 32.7 12.1 16.3 38.9 62Example 26 13,400 0.0 8.4 19.8 28.2 15.7 16.9 39.2 60Example 27 13,400 0.1 10.0 22.2 32.3 16.2 17.0 34.5 65Example 30 13,400 0.3 7.9 14.0 22.2 9.7 14.7 53.4 48Example 31 4,000 59.3 14.4 7.9 81.6 4.3 6.2 7.9 162Example 32 4,000 67.3 11.4 4.8 83.5 3.4 5.2 7.9 171 Acc. is an abbreviation for supply term . TABLE IIITURNER AND NEWALL ELUTRIATOR RESULTS FOR TREATEDAND UNTREATED FIBRE average of two determinations Turner and Newall Elutriator Surface AreaSample cm2 g Crude Feather Crude Feather Partly Open Open 200Example 23 4,500 28.1 28.1 8.5 33.5 29.9Example 24 4,500 29.4 29.4 12.2 36.8 21.6Example 25 4,500 27.8 27.8 13.5 30.0 28.7Example 26 13,400 2.4 2.4 8.8 60.8 38.0Example 27 13,400 2.2 0.3 2.5 7.9 59.5 30.1Example 30 13,400 0.8 0.8 2.5 46.4 50.3Example 31 4,000 13.1 24.4 37.5 8.3 45.4 8.8Example 32 4,000 12.8 32.1 44.9 3.4 45.2 6.5 TABLE IV FREENESS SEC FOR TREATED AND UNTREATED CALAVERAS FIBRES average of 3 determinations Surface Area Freeness Sample cm g sec Example 23 4,500 112.6Example 24 4,500 127.5Example 25 4,500 515.0Example 26 13,400 161.5Example 27 13,400 165.3Example 28 13,400 255.4Example 29 13,400 319.0Example 30 13,400 521.2 TABLE V MAGNETIC RATING OF TREATED AND UNTREATED FIBRES Average of two Determinations Sample Magnetic Rating Example 26. 2.40 Example 27 2.03 Example 28 1.97 Example 29 1.97 Example 30 1.62 As shown in Tables I to III, the Bauer McNett, Turner andNewall Classifier and Turner and Newall Elutriator results for the 5R fibre having a surface area of 4500 cm2g 1 Examples 23 25 and the AAA fibre Examples 31 and 32 indicate that the treatment of the present invention has little effect on length distribution or degree of openness. The results of the three tests on the 18 treated fibre having a surface area of 13,400 cm2g 1 Example 30 indicate some degree of fibre shortening.It is presently not understood why results of treated fibre having different surface area differ.During the Bauer McNetts and the Turner and NewallClassifier tests, the treated fibre was observed to coat the screens and also to reduce water flow through the screens. This observation was confirmed in the freeness test Table IV , where the drainage time or freeness was similar for untreated and hydrated fibre at both surface areas but increased sharply for treated fibre Examples 25 and 28 30 . With respect to the sample corresponding to Examples 28 30, the freeness decreased in a relatively linear fashion with increasing iron content. No freeness tests were run on the AAA fibre of Examples 31 and 32.As shown in Table V, the Magnetic Rating of the untreatedCalaveras fibre Example 26 , which is rather high 2.40 was found to decrease on hydrating Example 27 and to decrease further after complete treatment in accordance with the present invention Examples 28 30 . These results indicate the non ferromagnetic nature of the iron deposited on the fibres. The decreased magnetic rating associated with the treated asbestos fibres will allow use of treated. grades 4 7 asbestos fibres in such applications as electrical insulating type. The MagneticRating of untreated and treated AAA fibre was not measured. In summary, these routine tests on cement grade SR fibre and AAA fibre indicate that the properties of the treated iron micelle asbestos are largely unchanged from the untreated material except for the filtering or drainage properties of the 5R fibre. With respect to the 5R fibre, freeness is increased markedly by the metal salt treatment of the present invention. Because decreasing the treatment level from 18 to 5 by weight increased the filtration rate closer to the untreated fibre value, it appears that a reduction of the percentage level of treatment to the lowest value consistent with maintaining biological effectiveness may allow utilization of the fibre of the present invention in applications presently requiring low values of freeness, such as in the manufacture of asbestos cement. EXAMPLE 42BThe reinforcing value of the treated 5R fibre of Examples 28 30 was compared with the untreated and hydrated 5R fibre of Examples 26 and 27 according to a modified version of ASTM D3752 79 Strength of Asbestos in a Cement Matrix .The standard, which is yet to be published, describes a method for measuring strength of circular asbestos cement plaques in flexure after autoclaving. After first breaking the dry plaques, the plaques are further prepared by filtering a cement silica asbestos dispersion, followed by pressing in a leaky mold. An accurate reflection of the drainage properties can also be obtained from the specimen preparation procedure.The standard technique had to be modified somewhat to accommodate the hydrated and treated asbestos 5R fibre ofExamples 37 30. In order to redisperse the fibre to produce a homogeneous specimen, the fibre was shaken for 15 minutes in the saturated lime gypsum water before the cement or silica was added.The weight of water in the treated asbestos as well as the weight of iron on the fibre, were considered in calculating the fibre content of the asbestos cement.The percentage of untreated fibre by weight of dry ingredients was kept constant at 12,5 .The asbestos cement properties determined for theCalaveras 5R fibre are presented in Table VI. TABLE VIASBESTOS CEMENT PROPERTIES OF TREATED AND UNTREATED CALAVERAS 5R FIBRESurface Area Drainage Rate Water Retention Moduls of Rupture AdjustedSample cm2g 1 m1 sec 1 to 1.60 g cm 3 kg cm 2 Example 26 13,400 9.33 23.63 406Example 27 13,400 8.67 26.63 347Example 28 13,400 6.30 25.82 276Example 29 13,400 5.27 29.08 318Example 30 13,400 3.77 28.31 249 Average of 9 specimens Average of 3 specimens The strength results show some fluctuations. The hydrated asbestos fibre of Example 27 has a higher moduls of rupture than the untreated asbestos of Example 26. Treatment at the 5 and 10 levels Examples 28 and 29 appears to have only a small influence on the strength of the asbestos cement plague, but at 18 Example 30 the strength is noticeably reduced.In all cases, the weight of fibre was adjusted to keep the weight of asbestos constant so asbestos weight would have no effect on the observed strength reduction at higher treatment levels.Drainage rate gives a good relative indication of the ease of filtration of an asbestos cement. As with freeness, as measured in Example 42A, Table IV, the hydrated asbestos of Example 27 shows only a small degradation in filtration properties but the drainage rate of the treated fibre Examples 28 30 decreases sharply in proportion to increased percentage of metal. As seen in Table VI, the drainage rate is decreased by 60 at 18 treatment Example 30 and by approximately 30 at 5 treatment Example 28 . The water retention of the hydrated asbestos Example 27 and the completely treated fibre Examples 28 30 also is increased compared to the untreated fibre Example 26 .Both decreased filtration rate and increased water retention could result in production problems in a present asbestos cement plant. As with freeness, however, the effect of the treatment on the drainage rate can be minimized by reducing the weight of metal deposited on the fibres. EXAMPLE 42CResin Absorption was determined according to ATI QAMAG 3 74 on 5R fibre treated with 18 iron Example 25 and untreated 5R fibre Example 26 . The 18 treated fibre was first dried and opened in a Waring Blender to the same surface area as the untreated fibre 13,400 cm2g 1 The resin used was Varcum 29 101 supplied by ReicholdChemicals Inc.The resin absorption of untreated Calaveras 5R fibre was found two be 28.8 . The resin absorption of 18 treatedCalaveras 5R at the same surface area was 27.5 . These results, which are the average of three tests, are within experimental variation in a single sample. The resin absorption thus does not appear to be measurably affected by the iron treatment of the present invention. EXAMPLE 42DIn order to compare thermal decomposition properties, bothThermal Gravimetric Analysis TGA and DifferentialThermal Analysis DTA were performed on untreated asbestos fibre Example 23 , hydrated asbestos fibre Example 24 and 18 treated asbestos fibre Example 25 .For TGA, 10 11 milligrams of each sample were heated at 10 C min 1 in static air to 1400 C. For DTA, 0.4 to 0.5 grams of each sample were heated at 10 C min in static air to 10000C. The results obtained for the untreated fibre and the partially treated fibre appeared in all aspects similar to the thermal analyses of chrysotile found in the literature.See, e.g., A.A. Hodgson, Fibrous Silicates, Royal Institute of Chemistry, Lecture Series 1965, No. 4, p. 39. The fibre treated in accordance with the present invention at 18 iron Example 25 lacks the endothermic peak at approcimately 410 100C characteristic of brucite Mg OH 2 but in other respects is similar to the normal chrysotile thermogram. There is some indication that at temperatures approaching 14000C there is a slight weight gain in the treated fibre, but the weight increase is small and may simply be attributable to experimental error. EXAMPLE 42EThe thermal conductivities of untreated fibre Example 26 and 18 e treated fibre Example 30 were determined according to ASTM C518 76 Steady State Thermal Transmission Properties by Means of the Heat Flow Meter .The samples were tested in a loosely fluffed form in a polystyrene frame approximately 300 mm x 300 mm x 25 mm 12 x 12 x 1 with an opening of approximately 254 mmx 254 mmx 25 mm 10 x 10 x 1 . The fibre, which had a bulk density of 0.110 g cm 3 6.89 lb fat 3 , was held in the frame with saran wrap on both surfaces.The results of the thermal conductivity tests are presented in Table VII. TABLE VII THERMAL CONDUCTIVITY AND RESISTANCE OF LOOSE FLUFFED TREATED AND UNTREATED FIBRE surface are approx. 13,400 cm2 g METRIC UNITS Untreated Fibre 18 Treated Fibre Example 26 Example 30 Thickness 2.63 cm 2.53 cmCold Side Temperature 16.4 C 16.0 CHot Side Temperatiure 35.3 C 35.2 CMean Temperature 25.8 C 25.6 CThermal Conductivity 0.069 W.m K 0.061 W.m KThermal Resistance 0.382 K.m2 W 1 0.417 K.m2 W 1Density 0.110 g cm3 0.110 g cm3 IMPERIAL UNITSThickness 1.04 in 0.996 inCold Side Temperature 61.6 F 60.8 FHot Side Temperature 95.5 C 95.30FMean Temperature 78.5 F 78.1 0F Thermal Conductivity 0.478 Btu in hr 0.220 Btu in hr ft2 F ft2 FThermal Resistance 2.17 hr. ft2 F 2.37 hr. ft2 F Btu BtuDensity 6.89 lb ft3 6.89 lb ft3 In both tests the density, based on the eight and volume of the sample, was 0.110 g cm 6.89 lb ft The differences in thermal conductivities and thermal resistances of treated and untreated fibre are small and may be explained by the difference in physical make up of the samples. The treated sample Example 30 which had been dried and then opened still contained some small nubs of unopened fibre. Considering this difference, the agreement in thermal conductivity is good. There thus appears to be little difference in the thermal conductivity of the treated asbestos relative to the untreated fibre measured in a loosely fluffed form. EXAMPLE 42FTo evaluate the chemical resistance of asbestos fibres treated in accordance with the present invention, the extraction of iron from 18 treated asbestos fibre Example 25 and untreated asbestos fibre Example 23 was measured in the following media 6N 4 6N HC1 6N HN03 6N NaOH distilled waterIn all cases the weighed sample of asbestos was stirred for 3 hours at 650c, followed by filtering in a Gooch crucible. The filtrate was then analyzed for iron content by atomic absorption spectroscopy. The amount of iron extracted by the various media as a percentage of the original sample weight is presented inTable VIII. TABLE VIII WEIGHT PERCENT OF IRON EXTRACTED FROM TREATED AND UNTREATED FIBRE Media 5R Untreated SR 18 Treated Example 23 Example 25 Distilled Water 0.0002 6N NaOH 0.0001 0.004GN HN03 1.44 9.36 6N HCl 3.51 12.2 6N 4 2.39 12.0The results indicate that the iron present in either the untreated asbestos fibre or the treated asbestos fibre is largely insoluble under neutral or basic conditions.In strongly acidic conditions, however, the iron present in both the untreated asbestos and the treated material is partially dissolved. Up to 60 of the iron deposited during treatment may be removed by 6N HCl or H2S04 after 3 hours at 650C. Chrysotile asbestos is well known to possess little resistance to acid attack Badollet M., Encyclopedia ofChemical Technology, Vol. 2, p. 734, 1963 . It is therefore not surprising that a considerable amount of iron is extracted from the untreated fibres by boiling in the 6N acids used in these tests. Because the lack of acid resistance of asbestos is well known, exposure of the metal micelle asbestos of the present invention to strong acids is not likely to be encountered in service and iron extraction should not pose a problem. Asbestos is routinely exposed to strong alkalis in asbestos cement however, the present iron treatment appears relatively unaffected by strong alkali NaOH solution. EXAMPLE 42GThe viscosities of treated Example 32 and untreated Example 31 Cassiar AAA fibre dispersion were determinded. The surface areas of the AAA treated and untreated fibres were both 4000 cm2g 1. The fibres were dispersed by tumbling a mixture of 1.5 fibre by weight in a 2 8 solution of sodium oleate for 24 hours. The viscosity was then determined on a No. 4 Ford Cup and in a Falling Ball Viscometer using a 15.87 mm ball in a 16.7 mm I.D. tube.The results of the viscosity determination on untreated and treated AAA fibre are given in Table IX. TABLE IX VISCOSITY RESULTS ON CASSIAR AAA TREATED AND UN TREATED FIBRE average of 2 Tests AAA Untreated AAA Treated Example 31 Example 32 Falling Ball sec 28.32 24.59Ford Cup sec 50 g 11.34 5.87 100 g 22.56 12.57 150 g 35.71 19.87 200 g 50.82 28.07 250 g 67.49 37.59 The routine fibre tests on the AAA spinning grade presented in Tables 1 111 of Example 42A, indicate that the treatment of the present invention causes no significant change in length distribution of the fibres. The viscosity results presented here indicate that the viscosity of a dispersion of treated AAA fibre is lower than the untreated fibre Lower viscosity is a distinct advantage because an increases amount of treated asbestos can be put into a slurry and materials of lower viscosity are easier to spin into threads.In these experiments, because no correction for the amount of iron present was made, the fibre concentration is slightly too low. The larege viscosity difference, however, indicates a reduction in the fibre fibre interaction in the dispersion as a result of the treatment. The effect of this on the spinning performance of the fibres is presently unknown. EXAMPLE 43In order to compare the length of treated fibers to untreated fiber, twenty one samples corresponding toExamples 1 21 were evaluated by means of transmission electron microscopy.In order to effect some separation of the small fibres from large fibres and fibre bundles, and to achieve an adequate dispersion of fibres on the electron microscope grids, an aliquot of each sample was dispersed in 500 ml xylene in a graduated cylinder and allowed to stand for 15 minutes or longer, as visually determined from the nature of the sample. Three aliquots were taken from the upper portion of the liquid and filtered through nuclepore filters with a 0.1 m nominal pore size. The aliquot sizes were in the ratio 1 5 10, the smallest aliquot ranging in size from 1 ml to 5 ml. Grids prepared from each aliquot by standard methods were examined in the electron microscope. The measurements were made on the grids from those aliquots yielding the optimum dispersion of the fibres as judged by their overall concentration and their lack of mutual interferences.The grids were scanned in a Philips 100C transmission electron microscope at a magnification of between 5,060X and 5,660X. The length distributions were determined with aPortion graticle superimposed on the fluorescent screen.The results for all twenty one samples are tabulated inTable X as the percent of fibres larger than the indicated size. In order to allow easier comparison of the samples, only a single set of fibre lengths is shown in the first column corresponding to those samples scanned at 5,280X.Corrections may be made for samples scanned at other magnifications by multiplying the indicated fibre lengths by the ratio of the magnifications. For this reason the magnifications are also shown in the Table. The correction factors are summarized in Table XI. TABLE XFibre Length Distributions of kreated and Untreated Asbestos SamplesPercent of fibres larger than indicated lengthEx. 1 Ex. 2 Ex. 3 Ex. 4 Ex. 5 Ex. 6 Ex. 7 Ex. 8 Ex. 9 Ex. 10 0.094 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 0.14 99.6 98.5 100 97.0 100 99.2 98.0 97.6 93.2 100 0.20 97.3 93.9 100 90.9 98.8 97.3 95.7 91.7 88.4 97.6 0.29 93.8 79.5 100 79.9 94.5 89.8 88.6 85.0 81.1 94.8 0.41 83.8 66.2 98.5 69.3 85.8 80.9 77.2 76.3 63.7 85.2 0.58 66.8 49.8 96.5 56.4 76.3 64.1 59.8 65.6 49.8 74.4 0.82 49.0 35.8 90.4 47.0 63.6 46.1 41.7 48.2 35.5 59.2 1.15 33.2 17.1 77.6 34.5 52.2 30.1 26.0 33.6 23.2 42.8 1.6 22.8 8.0 55.6 23.9 41.1 18.8 13.8 23.7 12.7 26.8 2.3 11.2 3.8 39.0 12.9 31.6 12.1 7.5 14.2 6.6 14.0 3.3 6.2 2.7 21.2 8.0 19.0 6.6 3.9 7.5 2.3 7.2 4.6 2.7 0.77 7.0 2.7 13.0 1.56 1.58 1.58 1.14 2.0 6.5 0.78 0. 1.54 0.39 4.3 0.39 0. 0.39 0. 0.9.2 0. 0. 0. 0. 0. 0. 0. 0. 0. 0.magnification 5,280 5,280 5,280 5,660 5,660 5,280 5,280 5,660 5,660 5,060 1 um 0.92 0.59 1.83 0.64 1.17 0.62 0.70 0.73 0.53 1.00 2.9 2.24 2.36 1.92 2.85 3.07 1.82 2.14 2.60 2.57 2.18 1.81 TABLE X continued Percent of ofbres larger than indicated lengthEx.11 Ex. 12 Ex. 13 Ex. 14 Ex. 15 Ex. 16 Ex. 17 Ex.18 Ex. 19 Ex. 20 Ex. 21 0.094 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 0.14 100 96.0 100 94.9 93.1 94.9 100 98.8 94.9 98.0 0.20 100 99.6 90.2 91.7 85.1 86.9 88.3 96.9 96.8 87.9 94.1 0.29 100 99.6 82.4 85,7 78.4 76.2 78.3 90.8 93.3 80.1 87.0 0.41 98.4 98.0 72.2 76.2 67.2 62.7 61.7 79.6 83.3 64.8 77.6 0.58 96.4 92.5 55.7 58.7 52.9 41.9 43.5 61.9 68.7 46.9 60.6 0.82 91.3 85.8 38.0 42.5 38.0 26.9 25.7 38.5 44.4 28.9 44.1 1.15 82.1 66.6 22.8 28.2 23.1 15.0 12.2 19.2 27.4 13.3 31.5 1.6 69.4 50.0 12.2 17.1 12.6 8.5 6.3 10.8 12.3 5.5 18.5 2.3 47.6 32.7 6.7 9.1 7.8 2.3 2.4 4.2 6.0 2.4 10.2 3.3 26.6 18.5 3.9 40. 2.8 0.78 0.39 2.3 2.4 0.80 3.1 4.6 15.5 9.1 1.17 2.0 0.40 0.40 0. 0.78 0.41 0. 0.7 6.5 5.2 3.2 0.39 0. 0. 0. 0. 0. 0. 0. 0.3 9.2 0. 0. 0. 0. 0. 0. 0. 0. 0. 0. 0.magnification 5,060 5,400 5,400 5,060 5,160 5.160 5,160 5,06 1 um 2.24 1.7 0.63 0.76 0.62 0.51 0.51 0.78 0.82 0.54 0.7 2.07 2.16 2.39 2.43 2.52 2.27 2.17 2.03 2.05 2.17 2.2 TABLE XICorrections Applicable to the Fibre Length entries of Table XSAMPLES MAGNIFICATION CORRECTION FACTOR 1,2,3,6,7 5,280 1.00 4,5,8,9 5,660 0.93 5,060 5,060 1.04 20, 21 12,13 5,400 0.98 15,16,17 5,160 1.02The length distributions obtained were plotted on logprobability paper and they were adequately described by a lognormal distribution law. The sample of Example 6 seemed to be bimodal, and its distribution was accordingly decomposed into two distributions. The parameters of the distributions determined on the basis of log normality, the geometric mean fibre length, 1, and the geometric standard deviation, 6 , have been included in Table X.The values of T have been corrected for the deviation of the actual magnification from 5,280X.From all the data obtained, it is concluded that fibre lengths for untreated and treated asbestos are substantially the same. EXAMPLE 44The twenty one samples corresponding to Examples 1 21 were analyzed to determine if metal salt treatment of asbestos in accordance with the present invention affects the crystal structure and lattice spacings of the minerals. A GE XRD 4 X ray diffraction unit with a goniometer and a stationary sample holder was used. The diffracted beam was detected by a proportional counter whose signal was amplified and fed into a scaler. The goniometer could be operated in a scanning mode, or in a fixed mode. The scaler could accumulate counts during present counting times. The beam was Cu K ov radiation.Portions of the samples were moistened with a small amount of water and packed in bakelite sample holders to a thickness of about 3 mm. The surface of the samples was smoothed with a small spatula and made flush with the surface of the sample holder to ensure reproducibility of mounting. This method of sample preparation and mounting results in various degrees of preferred orientation, which may affect relative intensities of the diffraction peak, but does not affect the measured diffraction angles to any significant degree. The angle measurements would be affected only be very small deviations of the effective planes of diffraction from coincidence with the goniometer axis. Prior to measurement, a scan of the diffraction patterns was obtained over an apropriate angular range to identify the type of asbestos in a particular sample. The approximate diffraction angles were determined from this scan. Next, the location of an angle was determined with greater precision by taking a series of 10 second scaler counts at angles 0.100 apart in the region of the desired angle for intense reflections, and 20 seconds counts similarly in the region of a less intense feflection.20 second or 40 second counts were taken for the final determinations, 0.050 apart below 300 2B and 0.10 apart for greater angles. The results of the measurements of the diffraction angles, including the calculated d spacings, are shown in TableXII. Table XIII shows the data obtained from four determinations on sample no. 1, with separately prepared aliquots. These data show the precision of the measurements.In a few instances some of the weaker reflections could not be adequately measured, as the result of some apparent line broadening, or the presence of an interference, or a reduced relative intensity caused by the chemical treatment or orientation effects No investigation of the actual causative factor s was undertaken.With these exceptions, this method of X ray diffraction analysis indicates that the crystal structures of the asbestos forms are not measurably altered by the metal salt treatment of the present invention. TABLE XII Principal lattice spacings of asbestos in treated and untreated materials 1 0SAMPLE PEAK NO. 2e 1 d A Ex. 1 1 11.950 7.40 2 19.6 4.53 3 24.4 3.65 4 36.4 2.46 5 60.2 1.535 Ex. 2 1 11.80 7.49 2 19.45 4.56 3 24.00 3.70 4 36.500 2.46 5 59.95 1.54Ex. 3 1 10.450 8.45 2 27.10 3.29 3 28.90 3.09 4 32.0 2.79Ex. 4 1 10.300 8.58 2 19.45 4.56 3 27.1 3.29 4 28.45 3.135 5 32.4 5 2.76 5Ex. 5 1 10.760 8.26 2 27.30 3.26 3 29.00 3.08 4 32.2 2.78 TABLE XII continued 1 0SAMPLE PEAK NO. 2 d A Ex. 6 1 11.95 7.40 2 19.65 4.51 3 24.150 3.68 4 36,500 2.46 5 60.0 1.54Ex. 7 1 11.90 7.43 2 19.7 4.50 3 24.35 3.65 4 36.60 2.45 5 60.3 1.53Ex. 8 1 10.600 8.34 2 19.70 4.50 3 2 2 4 28.70 3.11 5 32.85 2.72Ex. 9 1 11.90 7.43 2 19.4 4.57 3 24.15 3.68 4 36.40 2,47 5 60.10 1.54Ex. 10 1 11.950 7.40 2 19.50 4.55 3 24.15 3.68 4 36.70 2.45 5 60.20 1.54 1 Cu K alpha radiation 2 interfering background unable to measure TABLE XII continued 1 0SAMPLE PEAK NO. 2 d A Ex. 11 1 10.60 8.34 2 27.20 3.28 3 28.95 3.08 4 32.15 2.78Ex. 12 1 10.500 8.42 2 19.600 4.53 3 28.650 3.11 4 32.80 2.73 5 35.40 2.53Ex. 13 1 11.850 7.46 2 2 2 3 24.2 3.67 4 3 3 5 60.1 1.54Ex. 14 1 11.850 7.46 2 3 24.2 3.67 4 4 4 5 3 3 Ex. 15 1 11.900 7.43 2 3 3 3 24.3 3.67 4 4 4 5 3 3 3 peak could not be isolated out of the background 4 there are two rather strong reflections at 33.30 and at 36.00 not identified TABLE XII continued 1 0SAMPLE PEAK NO. 2 d A Ex. 16 1 12.05 7.34 2 3 3 3 24.3 3.66 4 36.5 2.46 5 60.1 1.54Ex. 17 1 12.05 7.34 2 3 3 3 24.3 3.66 4 3 3 5 60.2 1.54Ex. 18 1 11.95 7.40 2 19.8 4.48 3 24.15 3.68 4 3 3 5 3 3 Ex. 19 1 11.95 7.40 2 19.7 4.50 3 24.2 3.67 4 36.6 2.45 5 3 3 Ex. 20 1 12.00 7.37 2 19.5 4.55 3 24.3 3.66 4 2 2 5 60.2 1.54 TABLE XII continued 1 0 SAMPLE PEAK NO. 2 d A Ex. 21 1 11.850 7.46 2 3 3 3 24.250 3.66 4 36.5 2.46 5 3 3 TABLE XIIIPrecision of Diffraction Angle and D spacing measurements 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0Reflection No. 2 d A 2 d A 2 d A 2 d A 2 d A Measurement No.1 11.95 7.40 19.6 4.53 24.4 3.64 36.4 2.47 60.2 1.54 2 12.05 7.34 19.6 4.53 24.3 3.66 36.6 2.46 60.2 1.54 3 12.05 7.34 19.7 4.50 24.3 3.66 36.6 2.46 60.2 1.54 4 11.95 7.40 19.7 4.50 24.3 3.66 36.5 2.46 60.2 1.54Mean 12.00 7.37 19.65 4.52 24.3 3.65 36.5 2.46 60.2 1.54 std. dev. 0.06 0.02 0.06 0.02 0.05 0.01 0.01 0.005 0 0 EXAMPLE 45An elemental analysis of the twenty one samples corresponding to Examples 1 21 was undertaken by the EnvironmentalAnalysis Laboratories in Richmond, California.The analysis presented a great deal of difficulty. The basic procedure involved fusing an aliquot of each sample in lithium metaborate and dissoving the resulting glass button in acid, followed by quantification by atomic absorption spectrophotometry hereinafter AAS . A test with chrysotile had indicated the feasibility of this procedure.This procedure, however, proved unable to effect complete dissolution of six samples Exs. 7, 10, 13, 14, 15 and 17 .Many other attempts at dissolution also failed, including various acid treatments at room temperature and at elevated temperature, as well as in a Parr bomb, and a fusion in sodium carbonate. It is possible that more success could have been achieved with much smaller aliquots, but no such attempts were made because of the need to determine some elements that were present in rather low concentrations.For quality control a synthetic standard was prepared from atomic absorption standard solutions and from weighed amounts of Fe203, Mg OH2 and Six2. An aliquot of this standard was treated in the same manner as the samples.Recoveries were satisfactory, except for Na and Co. The sodium recovery was high, probably as a result of the presence of sodium in the KCl added for the AAS measurements. It is to be noted, however, that the sodium analysis of the dissolved samples included a determination without KCl addition. The high cobalt recovery cannot be explained satisfactorily. In reporting the data, a correction factor has been applied to account for this high recovery.In order to obtain an analysis of the six samples that could not be brought into solution, the samples were submitted to the Crocker Nuclear Laboratory of the University of California at Davis for analysis by particle induced X ray emission hereinafter PIXE . Samples corresponding to Examples 1, 16, and 19 were also submitted in order to obtain a comparison with analyses performed by the fusion dissolution AAS method. Sample 2 was submitted as a normalization standard. The results are tabulated in Table XIV. The detection limits for Al,Na, and Co are not low enough for adequate comparison. The only thing that may be stated for these three elements is that the PIXE data are not inconsistent with the AAS data. For the other elements, the agreement is generally no better than within a factor of about 2, although individual sets of data may show much better agreement. TABLE XIVComparison of AAS and PIXE AnalysesSAMPLE Ex. 1 Ex. 2 Ex. 16 Ex. 19ELEMENT LFE UCD LFE UCD LFE UDC LFE UCDAl, 0.3 0.3 0.39 0.3 0.081 0.3 0.30 0.3Fe, 2.1 0.68 4.1 5.1 0.81 0.37 9.5 4.7Mg, 24 33 21 21 10 29 16 10.4Na2O, 0.1 2 0.07 2 0.03 3 0.05 2.7SiO2, 45 62 47 39 32 56 49 24Co,ppm 170 100 87 100 150 100 96 100Cr, ppm 2,300 466 540 640 580 830 640 370Mn, ppm 107 140 720 419 110,000 59,000 540 140Ni, ppm 400 540 930 750 860 590 820 210 Analysis by Environmental Analysis Laboratories Analysis by University of California at Davis A significant problem was presented by the silicon analysis. The recovery of Si in the synthetic standard was only 17.4 . Most or all of this apparent discrepancy is attributed to matrix effects in the flame. When the method of additions was applied to the standard and to samples 18 and 20, higher recoveries were obtained, but there was some lack of consistency.The data reported for SiO2 have been calculated, therefore, by applying a correction factor of 1 0.174 5.75 to the measured values.In order to confirm the silica date so calculated, the silica content was also calculated by difference. Elemental concentrations were converted to oxides Fe to FeO , and substracted from 100 . The silica content was then obtained by further subtraction of the water content, de termined before the samples were solubilized.No data were obtained for Sb and Sc. Their concentrations were so low that for the application of AAS, concentration by solvent extraction, back extraction, and perhaps partial evaporation was required. The pH required for the initial solvent extraction step was too low for the silica to remain in solution, which raises questions about coprecipitation of the analytes. In addition, it was found that the method of sample solubilization caused some volatilization of antimony.The data are presented in Table XV, where the PIXE data have been included. The first column under SiO2 designated AAS PIXE contains the corrected AAS data and the PIXE data for the samples that could not be completely solubilized. The second column under six2 designated diff contains the SiO2 concentrations calculated by the difference method. The water content, used in this latter calculation, is shown in the last column of the table. Most of the apparent anomolies reflected in Table XV appear to be in the PIXE data. When material balances are calculated with the AAS data, it is found that they are mostly between 90 and 110 . This is not unsatisfactory in view of the fact that the precision of the analysis is between 5 and 10 . Significant deviations occur only with samples corresponding to Examples 4 and TABLE XVElemental Analysis of Asbestos SamplesAl Fe Mg Na2O SiO2 Co Cr Mn Ni H2O Material ppm ppm ppm ppm balance AAS diff.PIXlE standard 0.39 4.1 24 0.07 39 87 540 500 800 recovery 96 98 95 262 17.4 223 106 102 106Ex. 1 0.030 2.1 24 0.03 45 77 2,300 100 400 13.5 101 2 0.38 4.1 21 0.08 47 46 40 540 720 930 13.3 101 3 0.14 22 10.5 0.07 64 53 38 100 15,700 160 0.08 110 4 0.107 26 0.42 3.4 76 61 35 86 1,300 100 1.2 115 5 0.37 25 1.6 54 64 170 220 37,000 1,500 0.2 90 6 0.38 3.8 19 43 49 52 730 840 960 12.9 94 7 1 0.3 0.8 37 2 69 25 100 640 230 740 13.1 8 0.022 26 0.46 3.8 53 59 64 190 1,000 190 2.8 94 9 0.11 10 14 0.04 30 48 64 1,200 380 750 15.5 82 10 1 0.3 6.1 10.6 2 28 60 100 440 170 90 15.0 11 0.06 29 1.1 0.04 56 53 64 130 15,500 210 7.7 103 12 0.04 16 0.26 3.2 63 69 38 78 520 140 6.7 94 13 1 0.3 0.85 17 2 35 56 7.6 580 130 N.A. 15.4 14 1 0.3 0.6 26 2 49 14 100 25 N.A. 530 6.4 1 analyzed by PIXEN.A. not analyzed TABLE XV continued Elemental Analysis of Asbestos SamplesAl Fe Mg Na2O SiO2 Co Cr Mn Ni H2O Material ppm ppm ppm ppm balance AAS diff.PIXIEEx. 15 1 0.3 0.4 23 2 43 33 100 13 N.A. 390 9.2 16 0.053 0.81 10 0.03 32 43 68 580 11 860 24.8 89 17 1 0.3 8.8 41 2 73 1 100 740 150 520 19.8 18 0.16 6.6 17 0.05 56 49 37 540 600 760 13.8 107 19 0.30 9.5 16 0.05 49 47 44 640 540 820 13.8 102 20 0.22 15.5 12 0.02 30 42 45 3,800 390 560 17.7 88 21 0.016 10 20 0.08 48 43 64 430 480 720 10.4 105Al Fe Mg Na2O AAS PIXE chrysotile 0.1 0.8 0.07 8.5 23 27 12 15 amosite 1.1 4.7 26. 34 0.6 4 49 53 2 5 crocidolite 22 29 0.18 4.0 8.5 49 53 2.5 4.5 1 analyzed by PIXEN.A. not analyzed EXAMPLE 46 PREPARATION OF METAL ACETATE COMPOSITIONS FOR PREPARATION OF METAL MICELLE ASBESTOS SAMPLESChromium Micelle Weighed 10 grams of chromic oxide Cr203 and added to a 4 liter beaker. The contents of the beaker were slurried with 200 ml of distilled water.12.5 ml of glacial acetic acid were added to produce a chromic III acetate in solution. 100 grams of chrysotile asbestos Union Carbide, high purity, grade 7 were added. The contents of the beaker were diluted to 3.5 liters with distilled water, followed by heating to 100 C, and stirring to provide adequate mixing with the chromic acetate. 200 ml of 1N sodium hydroxide were added to the suspension to precipitate a chromium III oxide micelle onto the asbestos surface. The product was removed from the heat source and allowed to cool. The product was collected by vacuum filtration using aWhatman i num 1 filter. The resulting dark green product was allowed to air dry for 16 hours. The filter cake was dried at 3300F. for 90 minutes. the dry cake was fiberized by used of a blender at high speed for 1 minute.A sample of the product was completely dissolved by treatment with 20 by weight sodium peroxide at 8500C. Elemental analysis is shown in Table I. HF insoluble matter was increased to 53 compared to 8.6 for an untreated chrysotile as shown in Table II. Chromium VI Micelle Weighed 17 grams of potassium dichromate K2CrO4 , and added to a 4 liter beaker.Dissolved the contents of the beaker in 200 ml of distilled water and added 25 ml of glacial acetic acid to produce chromium VI acetate in solution. Added 100 grams of chrysotile asbestos Union Carbide, high purity, grade 7 , and diluted to 3.5 liters with distilled water. Added 400 ml of 1N sodium hydroxide. Heated at 1000C for 30 minutes. Allowed to cool and collected by the vacuum filtration using a Whatman gel 1 filter. A pale green product was obtained and allowed to air dry for 16 hours. The filter cake was dried at 330 F for 90 minutes. The dry cake was fiberized by use of a blender at high speed for 1 minute. A sample of the product was completely dissolved for analysis by treatment with 20 by weight sodium peroxide at 8500C. Elemental analysis of the product is shown in Table I. HF insoluble matter increased to 45 compared to 8.6 for an untreated chrysotile sample as shown in Table II.Cobalt Micelle Weighed 10 grams of cobaltic oxide Co203 , and added to 500 ml of distilled water. Added 11.5 ml of glacial acetic acid to yield a cobalt III acetate in solution. Added 100 grams of chrysotile Union Carbide, high purity, grade 7 and diluted to 3.5 liters with distilled water. Heated the suspension to 1000C and added 180 ml of iN sodium hydroxide to precipitate a cobalt micelle oxide onto the asbestos surface. Continued to heat and stir for 30 minutes. Removed from heat and allowed to cool. Collected the product by vacuum filtration on a Whatman it 1 filter. A blue product was obtained. The product was air dried for 16 hours . The filter cake was dried at 330 F for 90 minutes. The dry cake was fiberized by use of a blender at high speed for 1 minute. The sample was completely dissolved for elemental analysis by treatment with 20 by weight sodium peroxide at 8S00C. Elemental analysis of the product is shown in Table I.Table II shows that the treatment increased the HF insoluble matter to 32 compared to 8.6 9 for an untreated chrysotile sample. Copper Micelle Weighed 25 grams of cupric acetate and dissolved in 200 ml of distilled water in a 4 liter beaker. Diluted the solution to 3.5 liters and added 100 grams of chrysotile Union Carbide, high purity, grade 7 . Heated the mixture to 100 C, and added 200 ml of 1N sodium hydroxide to form the copper micelle precipitate on the asbestos surface. The copper acetate solution was dark green and the mixture became gray on addition of the sodium hydroxide. The mixture was removed from the heat and allowed to cool. The product was collected by vacuum filtration on a Whatman q R 1 filter.The filter cake was air dried for 16 hours and subsequently dried in an oven at 300 F for 90 minutes. The product was fiberized by use of a blender at high speed for 1 minute. A sample of the product was completely dissolved for elemental analysis by treatment with 20 by weight sodium peroxide at 850 C. Elemental analysis of the product is shown in table I. There was a decrease in the HF insoluble matter to 4.2 compared to 8.6 for an untreated chrysotile as shown in Table II.Ferric Micelle Dissolved 46.5 grams of ammonium ferric sulfate dodecyl hydrate in 200 ml of distilled water contained in a 4 liter beaker. Added 290 ml of 1N sodium hydroxide to form ferric hydroxide as a copius precipitate. Collected the precipitate by filtration.Transferred the wet precipitate to a 4 liter beaker and slurried with 200 ml of distilled water. Added 18.5 ml of glacial acetic acid to yield ferric acetate in solution. Diluted the solution to 3.5 liters using distilled water, and added 100 grams of chrysotile Union Carbide, high purity, grade 7 . Heated to 100C and added 290 ml of 1N sodium hydroxide to form an iron ferric micelle precipitate on the asbestos surface.Heated the suspension for 30 minutes. Removed from heat and allowed to cool. The reddish brown product was collected by vacuum filtration on a Whatman num 1 filter and was air dried for 16 hours. The filter cake was subsequently dried in an oven at 33O0F for 90 minutes.The product was fiberized by use of a blender at high speed for 1 minute. A sample of the product was completely dissolved for elemental analysis by treatment with 20 by weight sodium peroxide at 850 C . Elemental analysis of the product is shown in Table I. There was a decrease in the HF insoluble matter to 1 compared to 8.6 for an untreated chrysotile sample as shown in Table II. TABLE I ELEMENTAL ANALYSIS FOR WEAK ACID STRONG BASE METAL MICELLES OF ASBESTOS Composition by WeightSample MgO SiO2 CuO Co2O3 Fe2O3 Cr2O3Cr III 73.0 15.0 .004 .52 3.7 1.3 Cr VI 61.0 26.0 Z .004 .03 4.1 10.0 Co III 59.0 14.0 .42 10.0 7.0 .42Cu II 43.0 37.0 15.0 .03 4.6 .38 Fe III 63.0 8.7 4.004 .02 25.0 .31CHRYSOTILE 78.0 14.0 L .004 .02 5.8 .31 TABLE II HF INSOLUBLE MATTER FOR WEAK ACID STRONG BASE METAL MICELLES OF ASBESTOSSample HF insoluble matterCr III 53Cr VI 45Co III 32Cu II 4.2Fe III CHRYSOTILE 8.6