# Process for producing olefin polymers.

## Abstract
Olefin polymers of reduced odor and color are produced by polymerizing at least one olefin in the presence of a catalyst composed of A a solid titanium catalyst component obtained by reacting i a titanium composition composed essentially of tetravalent titanium, magnesium, halogen and an electron donor or electron donor residue with ii an organic silicon compound having an Si O C bond in the molecule in the presence of iii an organoaluminium compound, or by first treating the titanium composition i with the organoalumi num compound iii and then reacting it with the organic sili con compound ii , until the amount of the electron donor or electron donor residue in the titanium composition i de creases from that before the reaction, thus including a part of the silicon compound in the titanium composition, and B an organoaluminum compound.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for producing olefin polymers by polymerizing at least one olefin in the presence of a catalyst composed of A a solid titanium catalyst ingredient composed of titanium, magnesium, halogen and an electron donor, and B an organoaluminum canpound, characterised in that there is used a catalyst containing a solid titanium catalyst component A obtained by reacting i a titanium composition composed essentially of tetravalent titanium, magnesium, halogen and an electron donor or electron donor residue with ii an organic silicon compound having an Si O C bond in the molecule in the presence of iii an organoaluminum compound, or by first treating the titanium composition i with the organoaluminum compound iii and then reacting it with the organic silicon compound ii , until the amount of the electron donor or electron donor residue in the titanium composition i decreases from that before the reaction, thus including a part of the silicon compound in the titanium composition. 2. A process according to claim 1 wherein said reaction of forming the titanium catalyst component A is carried out until the content of the electron donor or electron donor residue in the titanium composition i decreases to not more than 90 mole of that before the reaction and becomes not more than 0.6 mole per gram atom of Ti. 3. A process according to claim 1 or 2 wherein said reaction for forming the titanium catalyst component A is carried out until the amount of the silicon compound contained in the titanium composition is 0.1 to 50 moles per gram atom of Ti. 4. A process accordir to claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein said electron donor is an organic carboxylic acid or organic acid ester. 5. A process according to claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein said electron donor is a C1 C12 alkyl ester of a carboxylic acid selected from aliphatic dicarboxylic acids, alicyclic dicarboxylic acids, aromatic monocarboxylic acids, and aromatic dicarboxylic acids each having 8 to 24 carbon atoms. 6. A process according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the solid titanium catalyst component A is a solid catalyst component obtained by separating the solid reaction product from the reaction mixture. 7. A process according to any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein the solid titanium catalyst component A is a solid catalyst component obtained by separating the solid reaction product from the reaction mixture after the aforesaid reaction, and washing it with an inert organic solvent. 8. A process according to any one of the preceding claims which comprises polymerizing at least one olefin having at least 3 carbon atoms, optionally with a minor proportion of ethylene. 9. Shaped articles of an olefin polymer produced by a process as claimed in any one of the preceding claims.

## Description
DESCRIPTIONTITLE PROCESS FOR PRODUCING OLEFIN POLYMERS This invention relates to a process for polymerizing or copolymerizing olefins by using an improved catalyst to provide a highly stereospecific olefin polymer, or copolymer with high catalytic activity, and a polymer or copolymer of a high bulk density and in the case of an ethylene polymer or copolymer, a narrow distribution of molecular weight. Another advantage of the process is that troubles arising from an electron donor used as an ingredient of the catalyst and or an electron donor used in the preparation of the catalyst, such as offensive odor or coloration, can be advantageously removed, and the amount of the organoaluminum compound as a catalyst ingredient can be reduced. More specifically, this invention relates to a process for polymerizing or copolymerizing olefins, which comprises polymerizing or copolymerizing olefins in the presence of a catalyst composed of A a solid titanium catalyst component obtained by reacting i a titanium composition composed essentially of tetravalent titanium, magnesium, halogen and an electron donor or an electron donor residue selected from the group consisting of organic carboxylic acid esters, alkoxy groups and aryloxy groups hereinafter, the electron donor and the electron donor residue may sometime be referred to inclusively as an electron donor with ii an organic silicon compound having an Si O C bond in the molecule in the presence of iii an organoaluminum compound of a metal of Groups I to III of the periodic table, or treating the titanium composition i with the organoaluminum compound iii and the reacting it with the organic silicon compound tri , until the amount of the electron donor in the titanium composition i decreases from that before the reaction preferably until the content of the electron donor in t titanium composition i decreases to not more than 90 mole from that before the reaction and becomes not more than 0.6 mole per Ti atom, preferably separating the resulting solid reaction product from the reaction mixture, and preferably washing the separated solid product with an inert organic solvent and b an organoaluminum compound. In the following description, homopolymerization and copolymerization will sometimes be referred to inclusively as polymerization, and likewise, a homopolymer and a copolymer, as a polymer. Many proposals have already been made in the past for the use of a titanium catalyst ingredient composed of titanium, magnesium, halogen and as an optional component, an electron donor for the production of highly stereospecific polymers of alpha olefins having at least 3 carbon atoms with a high catalytic efficiency. With these prior proposals, it is usually necessary to use an electron donor as a catalyst component may sometimes be used in the form of a complex with an organoaluminum compound or a Lewis acid in addition to a titanium catalyst component and an organoaluminum compound so as to obtain polymers of a molding grade having high stereospecificity and moderate molecular weight by using hydrogen during polymerization. According to the catalyst systems previously suggested, the dependence of molecular weight on stereospecificitiy is high, and the decrease of stereospecificity index cannot be avoided when it is desired to produce polymers having a low molecular weight.If the use of the electron donor catalyst component is omitted, this decreasing tendency becomes remarkable, and it is difficult in practice to obtain polymers of a molding grade having such a stereospecificity as is industrially acceptable. Consequently, the use of the electron donor as a catalyst ingredient cannot be omitted and the resulting polymer frequently contain an unnegligible amount of a catalyst residue attributed to the electron donor. This catalyst residue causes an offensive odor and sometimes coloration in the resulting polymer. In addition, it is difficult to remove this cause of offensive odor by after treating the polymer, and such would be disadvantageous both in operation and equipment.Another defect is that since some types of the electron donor consume the organoaluminum compound, the amount of the organoaluminum compound as a catalyst component should be very large. The present inventors made investigations in order to develop a titanium catalyst component which can avoid the trouble of offensive odors attributed to an electron donor and therefore does not require a disadvantageous and difficult after treatment for removing the cause of offensive odors, without sacrificing the favorable properties of a highly active titanium catalyst component, such as excellent catalytic activity and the ability to form a highly stereospecific olefin polymer or rather with a certain amount of improvement in these properties. These investigations have led to the discovery that by reacting i a titanium composition composed essentially of tetravalent titanium, magnesium, halogen and an electron donor selected from the group consisting of organic acid esters, alkoxy groups and aryloxy groups with ii an organicsilicon compound having an Si O C bond in the molecule in the presence of iii an organoaluminum compound, or by treating the titanium composition i with the organoaluminum compound iii and then reacting it with the organic silicon compound ii , the electron donor component in the titanium composition i can be replaced by the organosilicon compound ii that a catalyst composed of a solid titanium catalyst component A prepared by performing the above reaction until the content of the electron donor in the titanium composition i decreases from that before the reaction, and B an organoaluminum compound can give a highly stereospecific olefin polymer with high catalytic activity without the need to use an electron donor catalyst component in combination and has the advantage that a polymer having a high bulk density, especially an ethylene polymer having a narrow distribution of molecular weight, can be produced and further that this catalyst can avoid the trouble of offensive odor attributed to the use of the electron donor as a catalyst component and or in the preparation of the titanium catalyst component and does not require a difficult and disadvantageous after treatment for the removal of the cause of offensive odors. Investigations of the present inventors have shown that with this catalyst system, the dependence of molecular weight on stereospecificity is small, and even when the use of an electron donor catalyst component is omitted, a polymer having sufficiently high stereospecificity can be produced that the catalytic activity of this catalyst per unit amount of titanium is high, and the bulk density of the resulting polymer is also high that when it is applied to the polymerization of ethylene, an ethylene polymer having a narrow molecular weight distribution can be produced and further that the aforesaid trouble of offensive odor can be markedly reduced or avoided. There have been prior examples in which the organicsilicon compound specified by this invention is used in the production of a titanium catalyst component. But in most of them, the organic silicon compound is used in the step of a preparing a carrier to be reacted with a titanium compound, or in the step of reacting a titanium compound. There has been no example, either in existence or known, in which the organicsilicon compound is reacted with a separately prepared titanium composition in the presence of an organometallic compound so as to replace the electron donor component by the organosilicon compound. For example, Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No.111281 1976 suggests a process for polymerizing olefins by using a catalyst composed of a titanium catalyst component and an organometallic complex, the titanium catalyst component being prepared by reacting a titanium composition containing trivalent titanium resulting from the reaction of a specified organomagnesium compound with a titanium compound, with an alkoxysilane. Even if such a catalyst is applied to the polymerization of alpha olefins having at least 3 carbon atoms, a polymer having high stereospecificity cannot be obtained. Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No.36203 1980 proposes a catalyst for the polymerization of olefins composed of A a solid titanium catalyst component and B a combination of an organometallic compound, preferably an organoaluminum compound, and a specified alkoxysilane, the titanium catalyst component tA being obtained by reacting and or pulverizing three components i.e., 1 a solid obtained by reacting a specified hydrocarbon soluble organic magnesium compound or a reaction product of it with a complex forming compound selected from the group consisting of ethers, thioethers, ketones, aldehydes, carboxylic acids, carboxylic acid derivatives, alcohols, thioalcohols and amines, with a specified chlorosilane compound having an Si H bond, 2 a titanium compound having at least one halogen atom and 3 an electron donor selected from the group consisting of nitrogen containing heterocyclic carboxylic acid esters, oxygen containing heterocyclic carboxylic acid esters, and sulfur containing heterocyclic carboxylic acid esters.It is stated in this patent publication that as the catalyst component B , the above two components may be mixed in advance and then added to the polymerization reaction system, or they may be added separately to the polymerization system. To the best of the knowledges of the present inventors, however, it has been completely unknown and not described in any known literature including the above cited prior art literature that a catalyst composed of A a solid titanium catalyst component of a reduced content of electron donor prepared by reacting the titanium composition i with the organic silicon compound ii the presence of the organoaluminum compound ii , or by eating the titanium composition i with the organoaluminum compound iii and then reacting it with the organic silicon compound ii , thereby inducing a substitution reaction between the electron donor in the titanium composition i and the organic silicon compound ii , and B an organoaluminum compound catalyst component is used in the polymerization of olefins, and the use of this catalyst system can avoid the trouble of offensive odors from the polymer and achieve many other advantages. It is an object of this invention therefore to provide an improved process for polymerizing or copolymerizing olefins. The above and other objects and advantages of this invention will become more apparent from the following description. The titanium composition i used to form the solid titanium catalyst component A in this invention is a solid compound composed essentially of tetravalent titanium, magnesium, halogen and an electron donor selected from the group consisting of organic acid esters, alkoxy groups and aryloxy groups. This titanium composition i contains a magnesium halide having lower crystallinity than commercially available magnesium halides, and has a specific surface area of at least 3 mê g, preferably 10 to 1000 mê g, more preferably 40 to 800 m2 g. Its composition does not substantially change upon washing with hexane at ordinary temperatures.Preferably, the proportions of the individual ingredients in the titanium composition i are such that the atomic ratio of halogen to titanium is from about 5 to about 200, especially from about 5 to about 100, and the atomic ratio of magnesium to titanium is from about 2 to about 100, especially from about 4 to about 50. The titanium composition i further includes the electron donor selected from the above group. Preferably, the amount of the electron donor is such that the mole ratio of the electron donor to titanium is from about 0.05 to about 6, especially from about 0.1 to about 5. If desired, the titanium composition i may contain another metal or element such as aluminum, silicon, tin and phosphorus. The titanium composition i can be obtained by, for example, contacting a magnesium compound, a tetravalent titanium compound and the electron donor with each other.If desired, reaction reagents such as a compound of silicon or aluminum, may also be used. Typical examples of the method of producing the titanium composition are disclosed, for example, inJapanese Patent Publications Nos. 32270 1975 corresponding to U. S. Patent No. 4,071,674 and 46799 1978, JapaneseLaid Open Patent Publication Nos. 126590 1975 corresponding to British Patent No. 1,527,736 , 20297 1976 corresponding to British Patent No. 1,492,618 , 28189 1976 corresponding to U. S. Patent 4,076,924 , 64586 1976, 92885 1976 corresponding to U. S. Patent No. 4,085,276 , 136625 1976, 87489 1977 corresponding to U. S. Patent 4,250,285 , 100596 1977, 147688 1977 corresponding to U. S. PatentNo. 4,232,139 , 104593 1977 corresponding to U. S. PatentNo. 4,143,223 , and 43094 1978 corresponding to U. S.Patent No. 4,149,990 , and German Laid Open Patent Application No. 3,022,738 and European Patent Laid Open PatentApplication No. 22,376. Several examples of the method are described briefly below. 1 A solid described in the following i to iii is reacted with a titanium compound which is liquid under the reaction conditions i a complex of the magnesium compound and an electron donor. ii a solid product obtained by pulverizing a magnesium compound or a complex of the magnesium compound and an electron donor in the presence or absence of an electron donor and or a pulverization aid. iii a solid product obtained by treating a magnesium compound or a solid of above i or ii with a compound such as an electron donor, an organoaluminum compound, a halogen containing silicon compound and a mixture thereof. These reactions are carried out by selecting the reactants such that the resulting reaction product may contain titanium, magnesium, halogen and an electron donor as essential ingredients. 2 A liquid state magnesium compound having no reducing ability is reacted with a liquid tetravalent titanium compound in the presence of an electron donor to precipitate a solid titanium composition. 3 The product obtained in 2 is reacted with a tetravalent titanium compound. 4 The product of 1 or 2 is further reacted with an electron donor and a tetravalent titanium compound. Examples of the magnesium compound used in the preparation of the solid titanium composition i include magnesium oxide, magnesium hydroxide, hydrotalcite, magnesium carboxylates, alkoxymagnesiums, aryloxymagnesiums, alkoxymagnesium halides, aryloxymagnesium halides, magnesium dihalides, organomagnesium compounds and products obtained by treating organomagnesium compounds with electron donors, halosilanes, alkoxysilanes, silanols and aluminum compounds. The organoaluminum compound used in the preparation of the titanium composition i may be properly selected from compounds examplified hereinbelow as the organoaluminum compound B as a catalyst ingredient. Examples of the halogen containing silicon compound which may be used in the preparation of the titanium composition i include silicon tetrahalides, silicon alkoxyhalides, silicon alkylhalides and halopolysiloxanes.The alkyl group in the silicon compounds may, for example, be an alkyl group taving 1 to 10 carbon atoms, and the alkoxy group in the silicon compound may, for example, be an alkoxy group having I to 10 carbon atoms. She halogen in the silicon compound may, for example, be chloro, iodo, promo and fluoro. Examples of the tetravalent titanium compound used in the preparation of the titanium composition i include titanium tetrahalides, alkoxytitanium halides, aryloxy titanium halides, alkoxy titaniums, and aryloxytitaniums. Titanium tetrahalides, above all titanium tetrachloride, are preferred. The alkoxy group in the titanium compound may, for example, be an alkoxy group having 1 to 10 carbon atoms, and examples of the aryloxy group are those having 6 to 12 carbon atoms. Examples of the halogen are chloro, iodo, bormo and fluoro. The electron donor used in the production of the titanium composition i is selected from the group consisting of organic acid esters, alkoxy groups and aryloxy groups. The electron donors which can be used in the production of the titanium composition may be oxygen containing electron donors such as alcohols, phenols, carboxylic acids, and organic acid esters.Specific examples include alcohols having 1 to 18 carbon atoms such as methanol, ethanol, propanol, pentanol, hexanol, octanol, 2 ethylhexanol, dodecanol, octadecyl alcohol, benzyl alcohol, phenylethyl alcohol, cumyl alcohol and isopropylbenzyl alcohol phenols having 6 to 25 carbon atoms which may have an alkyl group, such as phenol, cresol, xylenol, ethylphenol, propylphenol, cumylphenol, nonylphenol and naphthol organic acid esters having 2 to 30 carbon atoms such as methyl formate, methyl acetate, ethyl acetate, vinyl acetate, propyl acetate, octyl acetate, cyclohexyl acetate, ethyl propionate, methyl butyrate, ethyl valerate, ethyl stearate, methyl chloroacetate, ethyl dichloroacetate, methyl methacrylate, ethyl crotonate, dibutyl maleate, diethyl butylmalonate, diethyl dibutylmalonate, ethyl cyclohexanecarboxylate, diethyl 1,2 cyclohexanedicarboxylate, di 2 ethylhexyl 1,2 cyclohexanedicarboxylate, ethyl benzoate, propyl benzoate, butyl benzoate, octyl benzoate, cyclohexyl benzoate, phenyl benzoate, benzyl benzoate, methyl toluate, ethyl toluate, amyl toluate, ethyl ethylbenzoate, methyl anisate, ethyl anisate, ethyl thoxybenzoate, dimethyl phthalate, diethyl phthalate, dibutyl phthalate, dioxytyl phthalate, gamma butyrolactone, delta valerolactone, coumarin, phthalide, ethylene carbonate. These electron donors can be used in a combination of two or more. In the production of the titanium composition, other electron donors such as ketones, aldehydes, inorganic acid esters, amines, ammonia and nitriles may also be used. The use of alcohols, phenols and organic acid esters is especially preferred. The halogen atom which constitutes the titanium composition i may be fluorine, chlorine, bromine, iodine or mixtures of these. Chlorine is especially preferred. Electron donors desirably included in the titanium composition i are organic acid esters. Examples of the organic acid esters may be those given hereinabove. Typical examples of preferred organic acid esters are those having 8 to 24 carbon atoms, especially alkyl esters preferably C1 C12 alkyl esters of aliphatic dicarboxylic acids such as maleic acid, malonic acid and alkylmalonic acids, alicyclic dicarboxylic acids such as cyclohexanedicarboxylic acid, aromatic monocarboxylic acids such as benzoic acid, lower alkylbenzoic acids and lower alkoxybenzoic acids and aromatic dicarboxylic acids such as phthalic acid. These esters may have a substituent. There may be present, in addition, electron dodnors free from active hydrogen, such as inorganic acid esters, ethers, ketones, tertiary amines, acid halides and acid anhydrides. The electron donor residue which is preferably contained in the titanium composition includes alkoxy groups, preferably alkoxy groups having 1 to 10 carbon atoms, and arylory groups, preferably aryloxy groups having 6 to 20 carbon atoms. These alkoxy or aryloxy groups may be present in the form of compounds represented by the formula RO ,A1X3 , or RO nTiX4 n . In these formulae, R represents a C1 C10 alkyl or C6 C20 aryloxy group, m is a number represented by O mC3 , n is a number represented by O n r , and X represents a halogen atom. Typical examples of the alkoxy or aryloxy group are methoxy, ethoxy, propoxy, butoxy, ethylhexoxy, phenoxy, methylphenoxy, dimethylphenoxy, ethylphenoxy and butylphenoxy groups. Among the above electron donors preferably included in the titanium composition, the organic acid esters are especially suitable in order to obtain a polymer or copolymer having high stereospecificity by polymerization or copolymerization of olefins having at least 3 carbon atoms, or by copolymerization of an olefin having at least 3 carbon atoms with a minor proportion of ethylene.Above all, alkyl esters of organic polycarboxylaic acids with 8 to 24 carbon atoms, for example esters of substituted or unsubstituted aliphatic dicarboxylic acids such as malonates, succinates and maleates esters of alicyclic dicarboxylic acids such as cyclohexyldicarboxylates, and esters of aromatic dicarboxylic acids such as phthalates, are preferred. In the present invention, the solid titanium catalyst component A can be formed by reacting the titanium composition i obtained as above with the organic silicon compound ii having an Si O C bond in the molecules in the presence of the organoaluminum compound iii , or by first treating the titanium composition i with the organoaluminum compound iii and then reacting it with the organic silicon compound ii . The first mentioned reaction of i with ii in the presence of iii is preferred. Examples of the organic silicon compound ii include alkoxysilanes and aryloxysilanes. As such organic silicon compound ii , there can be cited silicic acid esters of the formula RnSitOR1 4 wherein n is a number represented by O n 3, and R is a hydrocarbon group or a halogen atom, R represents a hydrocarbon group, and when there are a purality of R and or OR1 groups, these R groups or these OR1 groups may be identical or different.Examples of the hydrocarbon group for R include alkyl groups preferably having 1 to 10 carbon atoms, cycloalkyl groups preferably having 6 to 20 carbon atoms, aryl groups preferably having 6 to 20 carbon atoms, alkenyl groups preferably having 2 to 10 carbon atoms, haloalkyl groups preferably C1 C10 alkyl groups substituted by chlorine, bromine, iodine and or fluorine, more preferably those substituted by chlorine, and aminoalkyl groups preferably C1 C10 alkyl groups substituted by amino groups.Examples of the hydrocarbon group R1 include alkyl groups preferably having 1 to 10 carbon atoms, cycloalkyl groups preferably having 6 to 20 carbon atoms, aryl groups preferably having 6 to 20 carbon atoms, alkenyl groups preferably having 2 to 10 carbon atoms, and alkoxyalkyl groups preferably C1 C8 alkoxy C1 C8 alkyl groups. Other examples of the organic silicon compounds ii may include siloxanes having similar OR1 groups to the above, and silyl esters of carboxylic acids. Another example includes compounds having an Si O C bond produced by reacting a compound free from an Si O C bond with a compound having an O C bond in advance or in situ. A combination of SiC14 and an alcohol may be cited as a typical example. The organic silicon compound ii may also include another metal such as aluminum or tin. More specific examples of the organosilicon compound ii include trimethylmethoxysilane, trimethylethoxysilane, dimethyldimethoxysilane, dimethyldiethoxysilane, diphenyldimethoxysilane, methylphenyldimethoxysilane, diphenyldiethoxysilane, ethyltrimethoxysilane, vinyltrimethoxysilane, methyltrimethoxysilane, phenyltrimethoxysilane, gamma chloropropyltrimethoxysilane, methyltriethoxy silane, ethyltriethoxysilane, vinyltriethoxysilane, butyltriethoxysilane, phenyltriethoxysilane, gamma aminopropyltriethoxysilane, chlorotriethoxysilane, ethyltriisopropoxysilane, vinyltributoxysilane, ethyl silicate, butyl silicate, trimethYlphenoxysilane, methyltriallyloxysilane, vinyl tris beta methoxyethoxy silane, vinyltriacetoxysilane and dimethyltetraethoxydisiloxane.Of these, alkoxysilanes of the formula RnSi ORl 4 n in which n is 0, 1 or 2 such as methyltrimethoxysilane, phenyltrimethoxysilane, methyltriethoxysilane, ethyltriethoxysilane, vinyltriethoxysilane, phenyltriethoxysilane, vinyltributoxysilane, ethyl silicate, diphenyldimethoxysilane, methylphenyldimethoxysilane, and diphenyldiethoxysilane are especially preferred. The reaction of the titanium composition i with the organic silicon compound ii in the presence of the organometallic compound iii or the reaction of i with ii following the treatment of i with iii for the formation of the solid titanium catalyst component A can be carried out in an inert organic solvent, preferably an inert hydrocarbon solvent. Suitable organometallic compounds ii to be present in the above reaction are the same compounds as exemplified hereinbelow with regard to the organoaluminum compound B . The use of trialkyl aluminums is especially preferred. Examples of especially suitable inert hydrocarbon solvents which can be used in the above reaction are aliphatic hydrocarbons such as n pentane, isopentane, n hexane, n heptane, n octane, iso octane, n decane, ndodecane, kerosene and liquid paraffin alicyclic hydrocarbons such as cyclopentane, methylcyclopentane, cyclohexane and methylcyclohexane aromatic hydrocarbons such as benzene, toluene, xylene and ethylbenzene and mixtures of these The ratio between the titanium composition i and the organic silicon compound ii can be properly selected. Desirably, about 0.05 to about 200 moles, preferable about 0.1 to about 50 moles, especially about 1 to about 40 moles, of the organic silicon compound ii is selected per gram atom of titanium in the titanium composition i .The organic silicon compound ii may be used in an amount above the abovementioned upper limit, but this does not give better results and is economically disadvantageous. In the above reaction, it is preferred to suspend the titanium composition i in the inert organic solvent to a concentration of, for example, about 0.001 to about 500 millimoles liter calculated as titanium atom, and contacted at a temperature of, for example, not more than about 90 C, preferably about 200C to about 600C, for a period of, for example, about 0.5 to about 1800 minutes, preferably about 1 to about 180 minutes. By reacting the titanium composition i with the organic silicon compound ii in the presence of the organic metal compound iii as above, or by first treating the titanium composition i with the organoaluminum compound iii and then reacting it with the organic silicon compound ii as above, at least a part of the electron donor component in the titanium composition i is liberated and replaced by the organic silicon compound ii , whereby the content of the electron donor in the titanium composition i decreases from that before the reaction. Preferably, the reaction is carried out until the content o f the electron donor in the titanium composition i decreases to not more than 90 mole , preferably not more than 70 mole , of that before the reaction and becomes not more than 0.6 mole, preferably not more than 0.5 mole, per gram atom of Ti. Desirably, the amount of the organic silicon compound ii deposited which is to be contained in the resulting solid titanium catalyst component A reaches about 0.1 to about 50 moles, preferably about 0.3 to about 10 moles, more preferably about 0.3 to about 5 moles, per gram atom of titanium in the catalyst component A . It is especially preferred therefore to perform the above reaction by selecting the amount of the organic silicon compound ii , the reaction temperature and the reaction time so that they satisfy the conditions regarding the decrease of the amount of the electron donor and the conditions regarding the increase of the content of the organic silicon compound ii . The amount of the organoaluminum compound iii used can be properly selected. For example, it is about 0.05 to about 1000 moles, preferably about 0.1 to about 500 moles, per gram atom of titanium in the titanium composition i . The reaction is carried out preferably in an atmosphere of an inert gas such as nitrogen or argon.It may also be carried out in the co presence of ethylene or propylene. The solid titanium catalyst ingredient A used in this invention can be obtained by separating the solid reaction product, which is obtained by the above reaction of the titanium composition ii with the organic s icon compound ii in the presence of the organoalunum compound iii , or by the reaction of the titanium composition i with the silicon compound ii following the treatment of i with the organoaluminum compound iii , the reaction being carried out until the content of the electron donor in the titanium composition i decreases from that before the reaction, preferably until the content of the electron donor in the titanium composition i decreases to 90 mole or less of that before the reaction and becomes not more than 0.6 mole per gram atom of Ti to substitute the organic silicon compound iii , from the reaction mixture for example, by filtration and washing the solid product with an inert organic solvent, preferably an inert hydrocarbon solvent. Preferred inert hydrocarbon solvents may be those aliphatic hydrocarbons, alicyclic hydrocarbons, and aromatic hydrocarbons which are exemplified hereinabove in regard to the above reaction of forming the solid product. Organoaluminum compounds having at least oneA1 C bond in the molecule can be preferably used as the organoaluminum compound as a catalyst component B to be combined with the solid titanium catalyst component A to provide the catalyst of this invention. Examples include i organoaluminum compounds of the general formula RmÚAl ORê nHpXg wherein RÚ and Rê are identical or different and each represents a hydrocarbon group usually con taining 1 to 15 carbon atoms, preferably 1 to 4 carbon atoms, for example an alkyl, alkenyl or aryl group, X represents a halogen, preferably a chlorine atom, m is a number represented by O m 3, n is a number represented by O n 3, p is a number represented by O p 3, and q is a number represented by O q 3, provided that m n p q 3, and ii complex alkylated compounds of metals of Group I of the periodic table and aluminum which are represented by the following formula MlAlR14 wherein M1 represents Li, Na and K and R1 is as defined above. The organoaluminum compounds li include those of general formula RmÚAl ORê 3 m wherein RÚ and Rê are as defined above and m is preferably 1.5 m 3 those of general formula RmAlX3 m wherein R1 and X are as defined above and m is preferably O m 3 those ofthe general formula RmAlH3 m wherein R1 is as defined above, and m is preferably 2 m 3 and those of the general formula RmAl OR2 nXq wherein R1, R2 and X are as defined above, O m 3, O n 3, O q 3 and m n q 3. Specific examples of the organoaluminum compounds i are trialkyl aluminums such as triethyl aluminum, tributyl aluminum and trihexyl aluminum trialkenyl aluminums such as triisoprenyl aluminum dialkyl aluminum alkoxides such as diethylaluminum ethoxide and dibutyl aluminum butoxide alkyl aluminum sesquialkoxides such as ethyl aluminum sesquiethoxide and butyl aluminum sesquibutoxide partially alkoxylated alkyl aluminums having an average composition expressed by R2 5Al OR2 o wherein R1 and R2 are as defined hereinabove dialkyl aluminum halides such as diethyl aluminum chloride, dibutyl aluminum chloride and diethyl aluminum bromide alkyl aluminum sesquihalides such as ethyl aluminum sesquichloride, butyl aluminum sesquichloride, and ethyl aluminum sesquibromide alkyl aluminum dihalides such as ethyl aluminum dichloride, propyl aluminum dichloride and butyl aluminum dibromide dialkyl aluminum hydrides such as diethyl aluminum hydride and dibutyl aluminum hydride partially hydrogenated alkyl aluminums such as ethyl aluminum dihydride and propyl aluminum dihydride and partially alkoxylated and halogenated alkyl aluminums such as ethyl aluminum ethoxychloride, butyl aluminum butoxychloride and ethyl aluminum ethoxybromide. There may also be used organoaluminum compounds in which two or more aluminums are bonded to each other through an oxygen or nitrogen atom, such as C2H5 2AlOAl C2H5 2, C4H9 2AlOAl C4H9 2 andEMI17.1 Examples c the compounds . are LiAl C2H5 4, and LiAl C7H15 4. Of the above exemplified organoaluminum compounds tB , trialkyl aluminums and rr ixtures thereof with alkyl aluminum halides are preferneri. According to the process of this invention, olefins may be homopolymerized, or copoly nerized with each other or with other polymerlzable monomers such as polyenes. The process can afford not only highly crystalline polymers but also low crystal2ine polymers or amorphous polymers. Examples of the olefins which can be used in polymerizations include olefins having 2 to 12 carbon atoms, preferably 2 to 8 carbon atoms, such as ethylene, propylene, l butene, 1 pentene, l hexene, l octene, l decene, 1 dodecene, 1 tetradecene, 1octadecene, 3 methyl l pentene, 4 methyl l pentene, 4,4dimethyl l pentene and 3 ,3 dimethyl l butene. Examples of polyenes which can be used for copolymerization with these olefins include butadiene, isoprene, 1,4 hexadiene, 1,7 octadiene, 1,3,7 octatriene, 2,4,6 octatriene, 5 ethylidene 2 norbornene, 5 vinyl 2norbornene and dicyclopentadiene. When the process of this invention is applied to the polymerization of alpha olefins having at least 3 carbon atoms, polymers having high stereospecificity can be obtained. When the polymerization is carried out in the vapor phase or in siurry, polymers having a high bulk density can be obtained. Application of the process to the polymerization of ethylene makes it possible to produce polymers having a narrow molecular weight distribution. These advantages can be fully achieved by using the catalyst composed solely of the catalyst ingredients A and B . In order, however, to enhance these advantages or obtain another advantage, it is possible to use an additive in the polymerization system.Examples of the additive Include electron donors such as those exempli fLed hereinabove for L,. 3 the preparation of the ingredient A , silicon compounds exemplified hereinabove for use in the preparation . f the ingredient A , other organic metal compounds such as dlethylzinc and dialkylmagnesiums, halogens, halogen compounds such as halogenated hydrocarbors, silicon halides, aluminum halides, and hydrogen as a molecular weight controlling agent. The polymerization of olefine may be carried out in the liquid or vapor phase in the presence or absence of an inert diluent. n tiC liquid phase polymerization, a slurry polymerization method or a solution polymerization method may be used. Examples of the inert diluent which can be used in the polymerization include aliphatic hydrocarbons such as propane, butane, pentane, hexane, heptane, octane decane and kerosene alicyclic hydrocarbons such as cyclopentane, cyclohexane, methylcyclopentane and methylcyclohexane aromatic hydrocarbons such as benzene, toluene, xylene and ethylbenzene and mixtures of two or more of these. The amount of the titanium catalyst component A used in the polymerization system is suitably about 0.005 to about 1 millimole, preferably about 0.001 to about 0.5 millimole, per liter of the volume of the reaction system. The amount of the organoaluminum compound B is such that the atomic ratio of aluminum to titanium is from about 1 to about 2000, preferably from about 1 to about 500. The polymerizaton temperature is, for example, about 0 to about 30000, preferably about 20 to about 200 C, and the polymerization pressure is, for example, from atmospheric pressure to about 100 kg cmê G, preferably about 2 to about 50 kg cmê G The polymerization can be ca d out by any of batchwise, semi continucus anj continuous methods.For industrial practice, the continuous polymerization method is preffered. The polymerization may be carried out in a multiplicity of steps, and the molecular weight or composition of the resulting prc fr.ct may be varied from step to step. The following examples illustrate the present invention more specifically. In these examples, an offensive odor from the polymer was organoleptically tested by a panel of l0 well trn d specialists. A sample used for the test was obtained by separating and recovering the polymer after the polymerization and drying it to form a powdery polymer the powdery polymer was not subjected to any further treatment . The results were evaluated on the following scale. Standard Grade Evident offensive odor A Moderate offensive odor B Weak offensive odor C No appreciable odor D Example 1 I1 Synthesis of a catalyst A 3 liter autoclave was fully purged with nitrogen gas, and then charged with 1.5 liters of purified kerosene, 75g of commercially available MgC12, 109g of ethanol and 10g of Emasol 20 a tradename for a product of Kao Atlas Co., Lto. sorbitan distearate .The contents were heated with stirring and stirred at 125 C for 20 minutes at 600 prm. The inside of the autoclave was pressurized with N2 to 10 kg cmê G. A cock of a stainless steel SUS tube having an inside diameter of 3 mm and kept at 125 C which was directly connected to the autoclave was opened to transfer the mixture to a 5 liter glass flask equipped with a stirrer which had been filled with 3 liters of purified kerosene cooled at 15 C. The amount of the mixture transferred was 1 liter, and the time required for the transfer was about 20 seconds. The resulting solid was collected by filtration, and washed fully with hexane. Microscopic observation showed that the solid was in the form of a true sphere with a particle diameter of 5 to 30 microns. A 3 liter glass flask was charged with 1.5 liters of TiC14, and 75g of the above solid suspended in 150 mg of purified kerosene was added at 200C with stirring. Then, 12.9 ml of diisobutyl phthalate was added, and the mixture was heated to 120 C. The mixture was stirred for 1 hour, and then the stirring was stopped.The supernatant portion was removed by decantation, and 1.5 liters of TiCl4 was freshlv added The mixture was stirred at 1300C for 2 hours. The solid portion was collected by hot filtration, and washed fully with hot kerosene and hexane to obtain a titanium composition which contained, as atoms, 2.3 by weight of tetravalentTi, 63.0 by weight of C1, 20.0 by weight of Mg and 9.9 by weight of diis tyl phthalate. Two grams of the titanium composition was suspenere In 100 ml of purified kerosene, and 1.2ml of triethyl aluminum and 0.7 ml of phenyltriethoxysilane were ed . The mixture was stirred at20 C for 1 hour.Then, the solid portion was collected by filtration and washed with kerosene to obtain a titanium catalyst component which contained, as atoms, 2.1 by weight of Ii, 60.0 by weight of Cl, 19.0 by weight of Mg, 1.8 by weight of diisobutyl phthalate and 1.3 by weight of Si. II Polymerization Hexane 0.75 liter was charged into a 2 liter autoclave, and under an atmosphere of propylene, 0.75 mmole of triethyl aluminum an O.015 mmole, as Ti atom, of the titanium catalyst component were fed into the autoclave. Then, 200 Nml of H was introduced, and the inside of the autoclave was ne ated to 7G C. The total pressure of the reaction system was increased to 7.0 2 kg cm G with propylene. While maintaining the propylene pressure, propylene was polymerized for 2 hours.After the polymerization, the polymer slurry was filtered to give 377g of a powdery polymer having a boiling n heptane extraction residue of 97.5 , a bulk density of 0.42 g ml and an MI of 4.9 g l0 min. The polymer had an average particle diameter of 390 microns and such a particle size distribution tat 98 by weight of the polymer had a particle diameter in the range of .1 to 1.0 mm. The polymer was of spherIcal shape. Concentration of the filtrate gave 4.lg of a solvent soluble polymer. Accordingly, the average specific polymerization activity rj the titanium catalyst component was 25,400g of polypropylene mmole of Ti.Examples 2 to 10 The process of Example 1 was followed except that in the preparation of the catalyst, the conditions for treating the titanium composition with triethyl aluminum and phenyltriethoxysilane were changed as shown in Table 1. The results are shown in Table 1. Comparative Example The same polymerization as in Example 1 was performed except that the titanium composition obtained in Example 1 was used alone without further treatment.The results are also shown in Table 1. Table 1 EMI24.1 SEP Conditions SEP for SEP the SEP contacting SEP treatment SEP Titanium SEP catalyst tb SEP with SEP the SEP titanium SEP composition SEP Wt. tb SEP Amount SEP ml SEP Amount SEP ml SEP Temper SEP Time SEP Ti SEP Diisobutyl SEP Si tb SEP of SEP phenyl SEP of SEP triethyl SEP ature SEP min. SEP phthalate tb Example SEP triethoxysilane SEP aluminium SEP C tb SEP 1 SEP 0.70 SEP 1.20 SEP 20 SEP 60 SEP 2.1 SEP 1.8 SEP 1.3 tb SEP 2 SEP 0.23 SEP 0.40 SEP 20 SEP 60 SEP 2.3 SEP 5.9 SEP 0.7 tb SEP 3 SEP 0.46 SEP 0.26 SEP 20 SEP 60 SEP 2.2 SEP 6.2 SEP 0.6 tb SEP 4 SEP 1.16 SEP 3.29 SEP 20 SEP 60 SEP 2.1 SEP 1.2 SEP 1.1 tb SEP 5 SEP 4.64 SEP 7.90 SEP 20 SEP 60 SEP 1.8 SEP 0.4 SEP 1.6 tb SEP 6 SEP 4.64 SEP 7.90 SEP 40 SEP 60 SEP 1.7 SEP 0.2 SEP 2.1 tb SEP 7 SEP 4.64 SEP 7.90 SEP 60 SEP 60 SEP 1.7 SEP 0.1 SEP 2.8 tb SEP 8 SEP 4.64 SEP 7.90 SEP 20 SEP 5 SEP 2.0 SEP 3.7 SEP 0.9 tb SEP 9 SEP 4.64 SEP 7.90 SEP 20 SEP 180 SEP 1.8 SEP 0.3 SEP 1.8 tb SEP 10 SEP 0.23 SEP 0.40 SEP 20 SEP 1200 SEP 2.0 SEP 2.0 SEP 1.0 tb SEP 1 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 2.3 SEP 9.9 SEP Comparative Example to be continued Table 1 continued EMI25.1 SEP Results SEP of SEP polymerization tb SEP Powdery SEP n Heptane SEP Bulk SEP MI SEP Solvent SEP Specific tb SEP polymer SEP extraction SEP densitary SEP g 10 SEP min. SEP soluble SEP polymerization tb Example SEP g SEP residue SEP g ml SEP polymer SEP activity tb SEP SEP g SEP g pp mmole Ti tb SEP 1 SEP 377 SEP 97.5 SEP 0.42 SEP 4.9 SEP 4.1 SEP 25,400 tb SEP 2 SEP 370 SEP 96.2 SEP 0.42 SEP 7.9 SEP 6.8 SEP 25,100 tb SEP 3 SEP 298 SEP 95.4 SEP 0.40 SEP 11.5 SEP 6.9 SEP 20,300 tb SEP 4 SEP 315 SEP 95.4 SEP 0.44 SEP 8.9 SEP 2.7 SEP 21,200 tb SEP 5 SEP 357 SEP 98.5 SEP 0.44 SEP 6.5 SEP 2.2 SEP 23,900 tb SEP 6 SEP 299 SEP 98.0 SEP 0.44 SEP 8.3 SEP 2.6 SEP 20,100 tb SEP 7 SEP 208 SEP 98.0 SEP 0.43 SEP 15.0 SEP 1.7 SEP 14,000 tb SEP 8 SEP 248 SEP 95.9 SEP 0.40 SEP 8.8 SEP 5.7 SEP 16,900 tb SEP 9 SEP 391 SEP 98.2 SEP 0.44 SEP 5.3 SEP 3.1 SEP 26,300 tb SEP 10 SEP 355 SEP 97.4 SEP 0.41 SEP 4.7 SEP 2.9 SEP 23,900 tb SEP 1 SEP 298 SEP 80.2 SEP 0.34 SEP 37.0 SEP 46.5 SEP 23,000 tb Examples 11 to 18 The procedure of Example 1 was repeated except that in the preparation of the catalyst, the organic silicon compound or the organoaluminum compound for use in treating the titanium composition was changed as shown in Table 2.The results are shown in Table 2. Table 2 EMI27.1 Example SEP Organic SEP silicon SEP compound SEP Organoaluminium SEP Titanium SEP catalyst tb SEP ml SEP compound SEP ml SEP wt. tb SEP Ti SEP Diisobutyl SEP Si tb SEP phthalate tb SEP 11 SEP Methyltrimethoxysilane SEP Triethyl SEP 2.0 SEP 2.5 SEP 1.5 tb SEP 0.41 SEP aluminium SEP 1.20 tb SEP 12 SEP Ethyltriethoxysilane SEP Ditto SEP 1.20 SEP 2.0 SEP 1.3 SEP 1.5 tb SEP 0.62 tb SEP 13 SEP Vinyltriethoxylsilane SEP Ditto SEP 1.20 SEP 2.2 SEP 2.1 SEP 1.2 tb SEP 0.59 tb SEP 14 SEP Chlorotriethoxysilane SEP Ditto SEP 1.20 SEP 2.3 SEP 3.3 SEP 0.4 tb SEP 0.64 tb SEP 15 SEP Vinyltributoxysilane SEP Ditto SEP 1.20 SEP 2.3 SEP 4.1 SEP 0.6 tb SEP 0.90 tb SEP 16 SEP Ethyl SEP silicate SEP 0.64 SEP Ditto SEP 1.20 SEP 2.1 SEP 1.6 SEP 1.1 tb SEP 17 SEP Phenylethoxysilane SEP Triisobutyl SEP 2.2 SEP 2.0 SEP 1.1 tb SEP 0.70 SEP aluminum SEP 2.20 tb SEP 18 SEP Ditto SEP 0.70 SEP Diethyl SEP aluminium SEP 2.1 SEP 5.4 SEP 0.6 tb SEP chloride SEP 1.09 tb to be continued Table 2 continued EMI28.1 Example SEP Results SEP of SEP polymerization tb SEP Powdery SEP n Heptane SEP Bulk SEP MI SEP Solvent SEP Specific tb SEP polymer SEP extraction SEP density SEP g 10 SEP min. SEP soluble SEP polymerization tb SEP g SEP residue SEP polymer SEP activity tb SEP SEP g ml SEP g SEP g pp mmole Ti tb SEP 11 SEP 97 SEP 97.1 SEP 0.40 SEP 14.4 SEP 1.1 SEP 6,500 tb SEP 12 SEP 302 SEP 97.4 SEP 0.41 SEP 8.6 SEP 3.4 SEP 20,400 tb SEP 13 SEP 247 SEP 97.3 SEP 0.41 SEP 9.9 SEP 3.0 SEP 16,700 tb SEP 14 SEP 159 SEP 93.7 SEP 0.42 SEP 15.1 SEP 3.3 SEP 10,800 tb SEP 15 SEP 179 SEP 93.8 SEP 0.40 SEP 16.4 SEP 2.5 SEP 12,100 tb SEP 16 SEP 355 SEP 96.2 SEP 0.40 SEP 13.0 SEP 4.5 SEP 24,000 tb SEP 17 SEP 367 SEP 96.8 SEP 0.42 SEP 5.3 SEP 4.4 SEP 24,800 tb SEP 18 SEP 346 SEP 94.2 SEP 0.40 SEP 13.7 SEP 8.6 SEP 23,600 tb Examples 19 to 29 The procedure of Example 1 was followed except that in the preparation of the catalyst, each of the electron donors shown in Table 3 was used instead of diisobutyl phthalate in the preparation of the titanium composition, and the amounts of TiC14, theMgC12 ethanol adduct and purified kerosene were decreased respectively to one tenth of those used inExample 1. The results are shown in Table 3. The odor of the polymers of Examples 1 to 29 was evaluated as Grade D, while that of the polymer ofComparative Example 1 was evaluated as Grade C. Table 3 EMI30.1 SEP Electron SEP donor SEP Titanium SEP Results SEP of SEP polymerization tb SEP catalyst tb SEP wt. tb Example tb SEP Type SEP Amount SEP Ti SEP Si SEP Powder SEP n Heptane SEP Bulk SEP MI SEP Solvent SEP Specific tb SEP ml SEP polymer SEP extraction SEP density SEP g 10 SEP soluble SEP polymeriza SEP g SEP residue SEP g ml SEP min. SEP polymer SEP tion SEP activity tb SEP SEP g SEP g pp mmole SEP Ti tb SEP 19 SEP Diethyl SEP phthalate SEP 0.96 SEP 2.6 SEP 2.0 SEP 289 SEP 97.5 SEP 0.45 SEP 4.0 SEP 1.8 SEP 19,400 tb SEP 20 SEP Di n butyl SEP phthalate SEP 1.29 SEP 1.6 SEP 1.8 SEP 376 SEP 98.0 SEP 0.41 SEP 3.2 SEP 4.0 SEP 25,300 tb SEP 21 SEP Di 2 ethylhexyl phthalate SEP 2.03 SEP 2.2 SEP 2.3 SEP 386 SEP 96.5 SEP 0.40 SEP 2.5 SEP 3.7 SEP 26,000 tb SEP 22 SEP Diphenyl SEP phthalate SEP 1.38g SEP 1.9 SEP 1.3 SEP 308 SEP 96.0 SEP 0.41 SEP 7.2 SEP 4.9 SEP 20,900 tb SEP 23 SEP Diallyl SEP phthalate SEP 0.92 SEP 2.0 SEP 1.4 SEP 219 SEP 97.0 SEP 0.42 SEP 2.1 SEP 1.9 SEP 14,700 tb SEP 24 SEP Diethyl SEP n butylmalonate SEP 1.10 SEP 2.5 SEP 1.2 SEP 248 SEP 95.5 SEP 0.40 SEP 7.6 SEP 5.7 SEP 16,900 tb SEP 25 SEP Diethyl SEP phenylmalonate SEP 0.89 SEP 2.3 SEP 1.7 SEP 230 SEP 94.6 SEP 0.39 SEP 9.8 SEP 9.9 SEP 16,000 tb SEP 26 SEP Diethyl SEP 1,2 cyclohexane SEP 0.83 SEP 2.4 SEP 1.5 SEP 293 SEP 95.0 SEP 0.40 SEP 4.9 SEP 8.5 SEP 20,100 tb SEP carboxylate tb SEP 27 SEP Di 2 ethylhexyl SEP 1,2 SEP 1.83 SEP 2.4 SEP 0.8 SEP 270 SEP 93.8 SEP 0.42 SEP 9.1 SEP 8.1 SEP 18,500 tb SEP cyclohexanecarboxylate tb SEP 28 SEP n Butyl SEP benzoate SEP 0.88 SEP 3.1 SEP 0.6 SEP 186 SEP 92.5 SEP 0.42 SEP 9.1 SEP 8.1 SEP 13,000 tb SEP 29 SEP Phenyl SEP benzoate SEP 0.96g SEP 2.9 SEP 0.5 SEP 184 SEP 92.7 SEP 0.39 SEP 10.5 SEP 7.7 SEP 12,800 tb Example 30 I Synthesis of a catalyst Twenty grams of MgCl2, 4.2 ml of diethyl phthalate and 3.0 ml of methylpolysiloxane having a viscosity of 100 centistokes at 250C were put under an atmosphere of nitrogen in a stainless steel RTI ID 31.4 SUS 32 ball mill container having an inner capacity of 800 ml andean inside diameter of 100 mm and containing 2.8 kg of stainless steel SUS 32 balls each having a diameter of 15 mm, and contacted with each other for 24 hours at an impact acceleration of 7G. Ten grams of the resulting co pulverization product was suspended in 100 ml of TiC14, and the suspension was stirred at 1200C for 2 hours. The solid portion was then collected by hot filtration, and washed fully with hexane and hot kerosene to obtain a titanium composition, which contained 2.0 by weight of Ti, 66.0 by weight of C1, 22.0 by weight of Mg and 6.3 by weight of diethyl phthalate. Two grams of the titanium composition was suspended in 100 ml of purified kerosene, and 1.0 ml of triethyl aluminum and 0.56 ml of ethyl silicate were added.The mixture was stirred at 20 0C for 1 hour. The solid portion was collected by filtration, and washed with kerosene to obtain a titanium catalyst component which contained, as atoms, 1.8 by weight ofTi, 63.0 by weight of C1, 20.0 by weight of Mg, 0.9 by weight of diethyl phthalate and 1.9 by weight of Si. II Polymerization Using the resulting titanium catalyst instead of the titanium catalyst component used in Example 1, the same polymerization as in Example 1 was obtain performed.There was obtained 351g of a powdery polymer by filtration. The polymer had a boiling n heptane extraction residue of 96.3 , a bulk density of 0.37 and an MI of 6.2 g 10 min. Concentration of the filtrate gave 5.4g of a solvent soluble polymer. Accordingly, the average specific polymerization activity of the titanium catalyst component was 23,800g of polypropylene mmole of Ti. The odor of the resulting polymer was ranked D. Example 31 wiz Synthesis of a catalyst A 200 ml glass flask was charged with 4.8g of MgC12, 25 ml of decane and 23 ml of 2 ethyihexanol, and they were reacted at 1200C for 2 hours to form a uniform solution. A 400 ml glass flask was charged with 17 ml ofTiC14 and 133 ml of decane, and while maintaining them at 10 C, all the uniform solution obtained as above was added dropwise over the course of 1 hour. The temperature was then raised to 1200C. Diisobutyl phthalate 2.7 ml was added, and the mixture was stirred for 2 hours. The solid portion was collected by filtration, and suspended in 200 ml of fresh TiCl4. The suspension was Stirred at 120 C for 2 hours. The solid portion was collected by hot filtration, and washed fully with hexane and hot kerosene to give a titanium composition which contained, as atoms, 2.3 by weight of tetravalentTi, 70.0 by weight of C1, 21.0 by weight of Mg and 5.0 by weight of diisobutyl phthalate. Two grams of the titanium composition was suspended in 100 ml of purified kerosene, and 1.2 ml of triethyl aluminum and 0.7 ml of phenylethoxysilane were added. The mixture was stirred at 200C for 1 hour.The solid portion was collected by filtration and washed with kerosene to give a titanium catalyst component which contained, as atoms, 2.1 by weight of Ti, 66.0 by weight of C1, 19.0 by weight of Mg, 0.9 by weighty of diisobutyl phthalate and 2.0 by weight of Si. 11 Polymerization Using the resulting titanium catalyst instead of the titanium catalyst composition used in Example 1, the same polymerization as in Example 1 was carried out.Filtration gave 384g of a powdery polymer having a boiling n heptane extraction residue of 98.0 , a bulk density of 0.40 and an MI of 3.9 g 10 min. The polymer had an average particle diameter of 240 microns and such a particle size distribution that 100 of the polymer had a particle diameter in the range of 0.1 to 1.0 mm.The polymer was in the form of granules. Concentration of the filtrate gave 2.7g of a solvent soluble polymer.Accordingly, the average specific polymerization activity of the titanium catalyst was 25800g of polypropylene mmole of Ti. The odor of the resulting polymer was ranked D.Example 32 I1 Synthesis of a catalyst A 500 ml glass flask was charged with 20g of MgC12, and it was suspended in 200 ml of purified kerosene. With stirring, 50 ml of ethanol was added dropwise at room temperature over 1 hour. Then, 45 ml of diethyl aluminum monochloride was added dropwise at 40 C over 1 hour. After the addition, 25 ml of TiCl4 was added dropwise over 1 hour at room temperature, and the mixture was stirred for 1 hour. The solid portion was collected by filtration and washed with hexane to give a titanium composition containing, as atoms, 5.8 by weight of Ti, 65.0 by weight of C1, and 17.0 by weight of Mg. One gram of the titanium composition was suspended in 100 ml of purified kerosene, and 0.5 ml of triethyl aluminum and 0.3 ml of phenylethoxysilane were added. The mixture was stirred at 200C for 1 hour. The solid portion was then collected by filtration and washed with kerosene to give a titanium catalyst component which contained as atoms, 4.4 by weight of Ti, 51.0 by weight of C1, 15.0 by weight of Mg and 2.2 by weight of Si. II Polymerization Hexane 1.0 liter was charged into a 2 liter autoclave, and under an atmosphere of N2, 1.0 mmole of triethyl aluminum and 0.02 mmole, as Ti atom of the titanium catalyst were charged. Then, hydrogen H2 under 4 kg cm2 was introduced, and while ethylene was added 2 so that the total pressure became 8 kg cm , ethylene was polymerized at 800C for 2 hours. After the polymerization, the polymer slurry was filtered to give 296g of a powdery polymer having a bulk density of 0.35 g ml, an MI of 4.0 g 10 min. and an MW MN ratio, determined by gel permeation chromatography, of 5.8. The odor of the resulting polymer was ranked D.Comparative Example 2 The procedure of Example 32 was repeated except that the titanium composition obtained in Example 32 was used alone without further treatment. Filtration gave 313g of a powdery polymer having a bulk density of 0.32 g ml, an MI of 4.6 g 10 min. and an MW MN z ratio of 7.0.