# Dental hygiene compositions and their production.

## Abstract
Dental hygiene compositions are indicated which con tain, as an antiplaque antiseptic deodorizing active in gredient, a highly pure alkali metal dodecyl lauryl sulphate substantially free from non lauryl alkyl salts. It is considered that the anti microbial activity of the highly pure alkali metal dodecyl sulphate is considerably greater than the corre sponding impure salt, and it is this fact which makes it effective against microorganisms responsible for the forma tion of dental plaque in the human mouth.

## Claims
CLAIMS for all States other than Austria 1. A dental hygiene composition having antimicrobial activity against plaque forming microorganisms and comprising an effective amount of from 0.1 to 2.0 percent by weight, based on the weight of the composition, of one or more highly pure alkali metal salt of dodecyl sulphate substantially free from any non dodecyl alkyl sulphate salt, contained in one or more vehicle physiologically compatible with human teeth and mouth tissues. 2. A composition as claimed in Claim 1, which has a content of less than 5 non dodecyl alkyl sulphate salts, based on the weight of dodecyl sulphate salt. 3. A composition as claimed in Claim 2, wherein said content is less than 2 . 4. A composition as claimed in Claim 2, wherein said content is less than 1 . 5. A composition as claimed in any preceding claim, which also contains a physiologically acceptable acidic buffer for maintaining the pH of the composition in the range from 3.0 to 5.0. 6. A composition as claimed in Claim 5, wherein the vehicle comprises water and the pH of the composition is apprpximately 4.5. 7. A liquid mouthwash composition having antimicrobial activity against plaque forming microorganisms and comprising from 0.1 to 2.0 percent by weight of one or more highly pure alkali metal salt of dodecyl sulphate substantially free from any non dodecyl alkyl sulphate salt dissolved in one or more vehicle physiologically compatible with human teeth and mouth tissues, and from 10 to 30 by weight of ethyl alcohol, the percentages being with respect to the weight of the composition. 8. A liquid mouthwash composition as claimed inClaim 7, which contains from 0.1 to 0.5 by weight of the highly pure alkali metal salt of dodecyl sulphate. 9. A liquid mouthwash composition as claimed inClaim 7 or 8, which contains water or another aqueous vehicle, and also contains from 0.2 to 3.0 by weight of essential oil flavour and from 0.1 to 0.2 by weight of non ionic surfactant s as dispersing agent therefor. 10. A liquid mouthwash composition as claimed inClaim 7, 8 or 9, which has a water content of from 50 to 90 by weight and contains up to 20 by weight of humectant. 11. A liquid mouthwash .composition as claimed in any one of Claims 7 to 10, which also contains from 0.01 to 0.05 by weight of zinc chloride dissolved in water or another aqueous medium as the vehicle. 12. A liquid mouthwash composition as claimed inClaim 7 and comprising from 0.1 to 0.5 of highly pure sodium dodecyl sulphate, from 10 to 30 ethyl alcohol, from 0.01 to 0.05 zinc chloride, from 0 to 20 humectant, from 0.2 to 3.0 essential oil flavour, from 0.1 to 0.2 non ionic dispersing agent, from 0.002 to 0.005 dye, physiologically acceptable acid in an amount sufficient to bring the pH of the composition to a pH in the range from 3.0 to 5.0, buffer solution for maintaining the pH of the composition at a pH in the range from 3.0 to 5.0, from 0.01 to 0.05 fluoride anticaries agent and the balance water, all percentages being by weight. 13. A composition as claimed in any one ofClaims I to 11, which contains from 0.5 to 2.0 by weight of said highly pure alkali metal salt of dodecyl sulphate and also contains from 0.5 to 2.0 by weight of alkali metal N acyl sarcosinate. 14. A toothpaste composition having antimicrobial activity against plaque forming microorganisms and comprising an effective amount of from 0.5 to 2.0 of one or more highly pure alkali metal salt of dodecyl sulphate sunstantially free from non dodecyl alkyl sulphate salts contained in one or more vehicle physiologically compatible with human teeth and mouth tissues, from 0.5 to 2.0 of alkali metal N acyl sarcosinate, from 25 to 40 particulate dental abrasive, from 1 to 4 thickener, and from 20 to 40 humectant, the balance comprising water, and all percentages being by weight. 15. A toothpaste composition as claimed in Claim 14, which also contains a fluoride anticaries agent. 16. A toothpaste composition as claimed in Claim 15, wherein the fluoride is sodium monofluorophosphate. 17. A toothpaste composition as claimed in any one of Claims 13 to 16, wherein said sarcosinate isN lauroyl sarcosinate. 18. A toothpaste composition as claimed in any one of Claims 13 to 17, wherein said sarcosinate is sodium N lauroyl sarcosinate. 19. A toothpaste composition as claimed in Claim 14, comprising from 0.5 to 2.0 highly pure sodium dodecyl sulphate, from 25 to 40 particulate dental abrasive, from 1 to 4 thickener, from 0.5 to 3.0 physiologically acceptable pigment, from 0.5 to 2,0 sodium N lauroyl sarcosinate, from 20 to 40 humectant, from 0.1 to 0.3 sweetener, from 0.1 to 1 fluoride anticaries agent, from 1.0 to 5.0 phosphate buffer, sufficient phosphoric acid to adjust the pH of the composition to about pH 5.0, approximately 0.5 essential oil flavour, the balance being water, and all percentages being by weight. CLAIMS forAstria only 1. A process for producing a dental hygiene composition having antimicrobial activity against placlueforming micro organism, which process comprises incorporating an effective amount of from 0.1 to 2.0 percent by weight, based on the weight of the composition, of one or more highly pure alkali metal satl of dodecyl sulphate substantially free from any non dodencyl alkyl sulphate salt, in one or more vehicle physiologically compatible with human teeth and mouth tissues. 2. A process according to Claim 1, in which the composition has a content of less than 5 non dodecyl alkyl sulphate salt, based on the weight of dodecyl sulphate salt. 3. A process according to Claim 2, wherein said content is less than 2 . 4. A process according to Claim 2, wherein said content is less than 1 . 5. A process according to any preceding claim, which includes incorporating in the compostion a physiologically acceptable acidic buffer for maintaining the pH of the composition in the range from 3.0 to 5.0. 6. A process according to Claim 5, wherein the vehicle comprises water and the pH of the composition is approximately 4.5. 7. A process for producing a liquid mouthwash composition having antimicrobial activity against plaque forming microorganisms, which process comprises incorporating into a suitable base composition from 0.1 to 2.0 percent by weight of one or more highly pure alkali metal salt of dodecyl sulphate substantially free from any non dodecyl sulphate salt dissolved in one or more vehicle physiologically compatible with human teeth and mouth tissues, and from 10 to 30 by weight of ethyl alcohol, the percentages being with respect to the weight of the final composition. 8. A process according to Claim 7, which contains from 0.1 to 0.5 by weight of the highly pure alkali metal salt of dodecyl sulphate. 9. A process according to Claim 7 or 8, wherein the composition contains water or another aqueous vehicle, and also contains fron 0.2 to 3.0 by weight of essential oil flavour and from 0.1 to 0.2 by weight of non ionic surfactant s as dispersing agent therefor. 10. A process according to Claim 7, 8 or 9, wherein the composition has a water content of from 50 to 90 by weight and contains up to 20 by weight of humectant. 11. A process according to any one of Claims 7 to 10, wherein the composition contains from 0.01 to 0.05 by weight of zinc chloride dissolved in water or another aqueous medium as the vehicle. 12. A process according to Claim 7, which comprises incorporating in water from 0.1 to 0.5 of highly pure sodium dodecyl sulphate, from 10 to 30 ethyl alcohol, from 0.01 to 0.05 0 zinc chloride, from 0.to 20 humectant, from 0.2 to 3.0gO essential oil flavour, from 0.1 to 0.2 non ionic dispersing agent, from 0.002 to 0.005 dye, physiologically acceptable acid in an amount sufficient.to bring the pH of the composition to a pH in the range from 3.0 to 5.0, buffer solution for maintaining the pH of the composition at a pH in the range from 3.0 to 5.0, and from 0.01 to 0.05 fluoride. anticaries agent, all percentage being by weight and being with respect to the composition. 13. A process according to any one of Claims 1 to 11, wherein the composition contains from 0.5 to 2.0 by weight of said highly pure alkali metal salt of dodecyl sulphate and also contains from 0.5 to 2.0 by weight of alkali metal N acyl sarcosinate. 14. A process for producing a toothpaste composition having antimicrobial activity against plaque forming microorganisms, which comprises incorporating in water an effective amount of from 0.5 to 2.0 of one or more highly pure alkali metal salt of dodecyl sulphate substantially free from non dodecyl alkyl sulphate salts dissolved in one or more vehicle physiologically compatible with human teeth and mouth tissues, from 0.5 to 2.0 of alkali metal N acyl sarcosinate, from 25 to 40 particulate dental abrasive, from 1 to 4 thickener, and from 20 to 40 humectant, all percentages being by weight and with respect to the composition. 15. A process according to Claim 14, which also comprises incorporating in the composition a fluoride anticaries agent. 16. A process according to Claim 15, wherein the fluoride is sodium monofluorophosphate. 17. A process according to any one of Claims 13 to 16, wherein said sarcosinate is N lauroyl sarcosinate. 18. A process according to any one of Claims 13 to 17, wherein said sarcosinate is sodium N lauroyl sarcosinate. 19. A process for producing a toothpaste composition in accordance with Claim 14, which comprises incorporating in water from 0.5 to 2.0 highly pure sodium dodecyl sulphate, from 25 to 40 particulate dental abrasive, from 1 to 4 thickener, from 0.5 to 3.0 physiologicallyacceptable pigment, from 0.5 to 2.0 sodium N lauroyl sarcosinate, from 20 to 40 humectant, from 0.1 to 0.3 sweetener, from 0.5 to 1 fluoride anticaries agent, from 1.0 to 5.0 phosphate buffer, sufficient phosphoric acid to adjust the pH of the composition to about pH 5.0, and approximately 0.5 essential oil flavour, and all percentages being by weight and with respect to the composition.

## Description
DENTAL HYGIENE COMPOSITIONS AND THEIR PRODUCTION This invention relates to dental hygiene compositions including, but not limited to, dentifrices in solid, powder, paste, or cream form and liquid mouth washes and rinses, and to the production of such compositions. The primary use of such compositions is in maintaining dental hygiene and it is the function of such compositions to keep the surface of the teeth as clean and shiny as possible, to preserve the health of the teeth and gums, to inhibit the formation of unpleasant odours in the oral cavity and to freshen the user s breath.Known formulations of such compositions have been intended to provide cosmetic, cleansing, refreshing and or deodorizing benefits, or have provided a thera peutic activity, e.g. anticaries activity. The compositions of the present invention are formulated to provide a further therapeutic activity, namely an antiplaque activity. Dental plaque is considered to be a material composed largely of microorganisms and an organic matrix derived from bacteria and saliva. Dental experts generally consider that the calculus also known as tartar is a mature plaque which has crystallized with the development of an identifiable crystal structure. It is well know that even with regular and thorough brushing, the plaque i.e. calcified plaque deposit adheres tenaciously to the teeth. Such deposits are unattractive and cause tooth decay. According to one aspect of the present invent ion, there is provided a dental hygiene composition having antimicrobial activity against plaque forming microorganisms and comprising an effective amount of from 0.1 to 2.0 percent by weight, based on the weight of the composition, of one or more highly pure alkali metal salt of dodecyl sulphate substantially free from any non dodecyl alkyl sulphate salt, contained in one or more vehicle physiologically compatible with human teeth and mouth tissues. According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a process for producing a dental hygiene composition according to the firstmentioned aspect of the present invention, which process comprises incorporating in a dental hygiene composition from 0.1 to 2.0 percent by weight, based on the weight of the final composition, of at least one highly pure alkali metal salt of dodecyl sulphate substantially free from any non dodecyl alkyl sulphate salt. The compositions of the present invention are intended to prevent or reduce the deposit of dental plaque. The compositions of the present invention may also contain anticaries agent such as sodium fluoride or sodium monofluorophosphate. The present invention is based on the finding that alkali metal salts of dodecyl lauryl sulphate when employed in a highly pure form, substantially free from any other alkyl sulphate, exhibit particular advantages when incorporated in dental hygiene compositions having antiplaque activity. The most readily available lauryl sulphate salt isthe sodium form, i.e. sodium lauryl sulphate. The potassium and other alkali metal salts are analogous to the sodium salt, although the use of the latter is normally preferred for reasons of economy. It will be appreciated, however, that the potassium and other alkali metal salts may be substituted for the sodium salt in the compositions of the present invention hereinafter described. The material that is commonly commercially available under the designation sodium lauryl sulphate is not the pure compound sodium dodecyl sulphate laurylCH3 CH2 10CH2OSO3Na, but is a mixture of homologous sodium alkyl sulphates with sodium dodecyl sulphate predominating. Thus, as normally employed, the designation or chemical description sodium lauryl sulphate refers to a material containing as impurity significant and varying amounts of sodium salts of non dodecyl alkyl sulphates as well as the pure dodecyl sulphate salt. These commercially available materials often also contain varying amounts of sodium salts of inorganic acids, e.g. sodium chloride and sodium sulphate, and unsulphated alcohols. Commercially. available sodium lauryl sulphate in impure form has been employed in the past in toothpaste compositions as a detergent or foam producing agent. An investigation has been made of the specific antimicrobial activity of solutions of various forms of material commercially available as sodium lauryl sulphate , including one form that has recently become available from certain sources as a highly pure compound substantially free from any content of non dodecyl alkyl sulphate sodium salts.It has been found that the antimicrobial activity of the pure form of the sodium dodecyl sulphate material against the microorganisms considered to be responsible for plaque formation in the human mouth is high, while the activity of the impure solutions combining substantial amounts of nondodecyl sulphates against such microorganisms is inhibited to a significant extent. Thus as. between pure and impure solutions containing equivalent amounts of the pure compound, a higher specific activity was found to be exhibited by the solution that was substantially free of non dodecyl alkyl sulphate salts, and therefore, by employing sodium dodecyl sulphate material in a form that is of high purity, there can be provided a composition having an effective level of antiplaque activity at a relatively lower content of the alkyl sulphate salt.The level of the alkyl sulphate is a matter of practical importance as the concentration of alkyl sulphate that needs to be employed in a mouthwash or toothpaste composition can be an important factor in the formation of a product that meets with consumer acceptance.In the mouth, sodium dodecyl sulphate and other alkyl sulphates have an astringent effect. Depending on the nature and proportions of the ingredients in the formulation, a small variation in the alkyl sulphate content can make the difference between a product that is acceptable to the consumer and one that is unacceptable as having a harsh and unpleasant taste or that gives an unpleasant sensation in the mouth owing to the physiological action of the alkyl sulphate on the mouth and dental tissues. Moreover, an excessive content of alkyl sulphate is normally to be avoided as in use of the composition this can lead to an overabundant degree of foaming in the mouth. In the dental hygiene composition of the present invention, an effective amount of from 0.1 to 2.0 percent of one or more highly pure alkali metal salt of dodecyl sulphate substantially free from nondodecyl alkyl sulphate salts, is contained,preferably distimed , in one or more vehicle physiologically compatible with the teeth and.mouth tissues. All parts and percentages herein are by weight unless specified otherwise. Any suitably pure form of sodium dodecyl sulphate or other alkli metal dodecyl sulphate salt may be employed in the compositions of the present invention.The amount of non dodecyl impurity that can be tolerated in the composition without significantly detracting from the antiplaque activity depends in each case on the quantity of the pure sodiumjor other alkali metal dodecyl sulphate that is present, and the percentages of impurity are therefore best expressed in terms of the weight of alkali metal dodecyl sulphate. In the preferred forms, the compositions of the present invention contain less than 5 of salts of non dodecyl alkyl sulphate, based on the weight of alkali metal dodecyl sulphate, more preferably less than 2 and still more preferably less than 1 based on the weight of the alkali metal dodecyl sulphate salt.One especially preferred source of the alkali metal dodecyl sulphate salt for use in the composition of the invention is the highly pure form of sodium dodecyl sulphate that is available under the trade mark TEXAPON L 100 from Henkel Chemicals Canada Ltd., of Toronto, Canada. This material has a washing activity of 99 , indicating a content of pure sodium dodecyl sulphate of about 99 , and contains less than 0.6 of alkali metal chlroide and sulphate and has a zero content of unsulphated alcohols, It is expected that the TEXAPON L 100 material is unique among other commercially available forms of sodium lauryl sulphate in its high content of the pure dodecyl sulphate salt, but it will be appreciated that the invention is not necessarily limited to the use of the TEXAPON L 100 material and that such other highly pure forms of the dodecyl sulphate salt as may be available, or may in the future become available, having a similar high degree of purity, preferably at least 95 , may be employed. It should be noted that preferred compositions of the present invention are substantially free from any content of fatty acid based soaps or detergents other than the alkali metal dodecyl sulphate salts, as these may impart an undesirable taste without contributing to the antiplaque activity of the pure dodecyl sulphate salt, and therefore the desirable antiplaque activity of the compositions is exhibited to the best advantage when solutions free from these materials were employed. The antimicrobial activity of the compositions of the present invention varies with pH and the optimum activity of the dodecyl sulphate salts has been found to occur when the salts are acidulated to about pH 2.However, under extremely acidic conditions, the alkali metal dodecyl sulphate salt tends to undergo hydrolysis so that the antiplaque activity diminishes over prolonged periods, e.g. during storage. At a pH in the range from 3.0 to 5.0 satisfactory antiplaque activity can usually be achieved without undue loss of activity occurring during storage of the made up compositions and therefore this range of pH is generally preferred. Optimum antiplaque activity extending over normal storage life can be obtained at about pH 4.5 and this pH is therefore most preferred for present purposes.However, in order to achieve this pH depending on the basicity of other ingredients of the composition, it may be necessary to add considerable quantities of aqueous solutions of acid, and in some formulations, particularly in the case of toothpastes and like solid or semi solid dentifrices containing abrasives or other materials that exhibit a buffering action tending to maintain a pH higher than 4.5, the amount of liquid that can be added is limited owing to the requirement for a viscous consistency. In such cases pH somewhat higher than 4.5 will normally be employed, i.e. pH 4.5 to 5.0 consistent with maintaining a desired solids content in the composition, Any phsyiologically acceptable acid may be employed to adjust the pH to the desired value. Suitable examples include dilute hydrochloric acid and phosphoric acid. Physiologically acceptable acidic buffers, e.g. buffering salt pairs such as the well known acetate or citrate buffers i.e. sodium acetate acetic acid buffer or sodium tricitrate citric acid buffer, or buffer compounds such as dibasic sodium phosphate may be added, typically in an amount of from 0.01 to 0.2 , to maintain the compositions at the desired pH during mixing and storage. Certain types of liquid dental hygiene formulations, especially mouthwashes and rinses, conventionally contain substantial quantities of ethyl alcohol as an astringent and antiseptic agent. It has been found that in the presence of substantial quantities of ethyl alcohol the desired antiplaque activity can be achieved with a reduced content of the pure alkali metal dodecyl sulphate salts, and it is suggested that the presence of ethyl alcohol potentiates the antiplaque activity of the dodecyl sulphate salts. Accordingly, in liquid mouthwash compositions containing substantial quantities of ethyl alcohol, in the range from 10 to 30 , a somewhat smaller quantity of the alkali metal dodecyl sulphate salt may be employed, preferably in the range from 0.1 to 0.5 . The compositions of the present invention may be flavoured with conventional essential oil flavours, e.g. thymol, eucalyptol,.methyl salicylate, and peppermint and spearmint oils, typically in an amount df from 0.2 to 3.0 . In the case of compositions combining water or another aqueous vehicle, these oils may if necessary be maintained in dispersion with the aid of suitable dispersing agents. The use of cationic detergents is to be avoided for this purpose as these materials tend to reduce the efficacy of the alkali metal dodecyl sulphate salts and the preferred dispering agents are nonionic surfactants advantageously in an amount of from 0.1 to 0.2 .As an example of a nonionic surfactant, there may be mentioned the water soluble TWEEN trade mark materials, which are polyoxyethylene derivatives of fatty acid partial esters of sorbitol anhydrides, but these tend to have a pronounced taste that may not be desired in all instances and therefore the preferred nonionic surfactants are the water solublePLURONIC trade mark material available from BASFWyandotte Corporation. These are alpha hydro omegahydroxy polyoxyethylene block copolymers. Especially preferred on account of its excellent dispersing and solubilizing activity and because it is relatively tasteless, is the PLURONIC F 127 nonionic surfactant which is available as a white solid, of average molecular weight 12,500, in prill or flake form. In the case of compositions in accordance with the present invention that are formulated as liquid mouthwashes or rinses, it is further preferred to add zinc chloride as an astringent, suitably in an amount of from 0.01 to 0.05 , This material has mouth deodorizing activity and in the presence of sodium dodecyl sulphate this activity is potentiated. It has been further found that compositions containing a mixture of the pure alkali metal dodecyl sulphate together with alkali metal N acyl sarcosinates exert a greater antiplaque activity than compositions containing equivalent weights of either of these compouds.without the other, or that, in other words, the combination of the dodecyl sulphate salt with theN acyl sarcosinate achieves a synergistic effect.For example, in comparsions of the antiplaque activity of five toothpaste compositions that contained 2 alkali metal dodecyl sulphate, 2 alkali metal N acyl sarcosinate, and 2 of one of three mixtures of the said sulphate and sarcosinate in the ratios 1 1, 1 2, and 2 1, respectively, there were observed percentage reductions of plaque of 50 , 40 , 78 , 61 and 60 respectively. This action of the N acyl sarcosinates in potentiating the activity of the alkali metal dodecyl sulphates may be explored in the formulation of toothpaste and like dentifrices in solid, powder , paste, or cream form, where a composition of high solids content with an enhanced antiplaque activity may be achieved at a relatively low content of the alkali metal dodecyl sulphate through inclusion of the N acyl sarcosinate, in the formulation. The preferred material is sodium N lauroyl sarcosinate added in an amount of from 0.5 to 2.0 by weight , more preferably in 1 1 to 1 3 ratio to the weight of alkali metal dodecyl sulphate, the latter preferably also being present in an amount of 0.5 to 2.0 by weight. The composition may contain the conventional humectants such as glycerin and or sorbitol. In the case of mouthwashes containing relatively large quantities of water, e.g. in the range 50 to 90 , the humectants may be present in an amount up to about 20 , more typically about 10 . In the case of toothpaste and like products where the moisture content plays a more important role in preserving a desired consistency and viscosity of the product, somewhat greater. quantities of humectants, e.g. in the range from 20 to 40 , may be used. Typically, toothpaste formulations in accordance with the present invention will contain from 25 to 40 particulate dental abrasive, from 1 to 4 thickener such as carboxymethyl cellulose derivatives and or polyethylene glycols, together with the humectant, dodecyl salt, and N acyl sarcosinate salt, if used, and may also contain a physiologically acceptable pigment, an artificial sweetener agent, e.g. sodium saccharin or sodium cyclamate, an acid and buffer to maintain a desired pH, and an essential oil flavour. Both the liquid and the solid or semi solid, e.g. paste, formulations in accordance with the present invention may contain small amounts of conventional fluoride anticaries agents. In the case of liquid mouthwashes or rinses this may suitably comprise sodium fluoride in an amount of from 0.01 to 0.05 and in the case of toothpaste the preferred material is sodium monofluorophosphate in an amount of from 0.5 to 2.0 , although other anticaries fluoride e.g. stannous fluoride or sddiun fluoride may also be used. A preferred liquid mouthwash comprises from 0.1 to 0.5 of highly pure sodium dodecyl sulphate, from 10 to 30 ethyl alcohol, from 0.01 to 0.05t0 zinc chloride, from 0 to 20 humectant, from 0.2 to 3.0 essential oil flavour, from 0.1 to 0.2 non ionic dispersing agent, from 0.002 to 0.005 dye, physiologically acceptable acid in an amount sufficient to bring the pH of the composition to a pH in the range from 3.0 to 5.0, buffer solution for maintaining the pH of the composition at a pH in the range from 3.0 to 5.0, from 0.01 to 0.05 fluoride anticaries agent and the balance water, all percentages being by weight. A preferred toothpaste composition comprises an effective amount of from 0.5 to 2.0 of one or more highly pure alkali metal salt of dodecyl sulphate substantially free from non dodecyl alkyl sulphate salt contained in one or more vehicle physiologically compatible with human teeth and mouth tissues, from 0.5 to 2.0 of alkali metal N acyl sarcosinate, from 25 to 40 particulate dental abrasive, from 1 to 4 thickener, and from 20 to 40 humectant, the balance comprising water, and all percentages being by weight. A more preferred toothpaste composition comprises from 0.5 to 2.0 highly pure sodium dodecyl sulphate, from 25 to 40 particulate dental abrasive, from 1 to 4 thickener, from 0.5 to 3.0 physiologicallyacceptable pigment, from 0.5 to 2.0 sodium N lauroyl sarcosinate, from 20 to 40 humectant, from 0.1 to 0.3 sweetener, from 0.5 to 1 fluoride antcaries agent, from 1.0 to 5.0 phosphate buffer, sufficient phospheric acid to adjust the pH of the composition to about pH 5.0, approximately 0.5 essential oil flavour, the balance being water, and all percentages being by weight. Although the above description provides ample information for those skilled in the art to formulate dental hygiene compositions in accordance with the present invention having antiplaque activity, for further illustration certain specific formulations will be given, by way of example only, together with a test method for determining antiplaque activity. Example 1 The ingredients listed in the following Table 1 were mixed together in the percentage by weight indicated, to obtain a clear solution. Table 1 also indicates preferred ranges of percentages by weight for the various ingredients.Example 2 The ingredients listed in the following Table 2 were blended together in the percentages by weight indicated, to yield a smooth paste. Ranges of preferred percentages by weight are also indicated. TABLE 1Ingredients Percent Preferred Range PercentEthyl alcohol USP 95 v v 20.0 10.0 30.0Zinc chloride USP 0.02 0.01 0.05Glycerine USP humectant 7.5 0.0 20.0Essential oil flavour 0.2 0.2 3.0Texapon L 100 0.3 0.1 0.5Pluronic F 127 trade mark 0.1 0.1 0.2Dye colorant 0.003 0.002 0.005Hydrochloric Acid 10 0.0003 0.0 0.0005Sodium citrate USP dihydrate Citrate 0.028 0.025 0.04Citric acid USP anhydrous Buffer 0.022 0.20 0.35Sodium Flouride 0.02 0.01 0.05Distilled water Balance 50 90 100.000 trade mark High purity sodium dodeayl sulphate available fromHenkel Chemicals Canada Ltd. TABLE 2Ingredients Percent Preferred Range PercentPrecipitated silicon dioxide 32.0 25 40Sodium carboxymethyl cellulose 1.0 0.5 2.0 thickener Polyethylene glycol 4000 thickener 1.0 0.5 2.0Titanium dioxide pigment 1.0 0.5 3.0Texapon L 100 0.5 0.5 2.0Sodium N lauryl sarcosinate 1.0 0.5 2.0Glycerine humectant 16.0 10.0 20Sorbinol humectant 16.0 10 0 20Artificial sweetener sodium 0.2 0.1 0.3 sacchrin or cyclamate Sodium monofluoro phosphate 0.7 0.5 1.0Sodium phosphate dibasic phosphate 1.0 1.0 5.0 buffer Phosphoric acid q.s. to adjust to q.s. to adjust to pH 3 6 pH 5Essential oil flavour 1.1 0.5 5Water Balance 20 40 trade mark high purity sodium dodecyl sulphate available from Henkel Chemicals Canada Ltd. Precipitated silicon dioxide available fromJ.M. Huber Corporation, Harve de Grace, Maryland,U.S.A. under the trade mark2ZEODENT 113, having a particle size from 100 300 angstrom units and a surface area from 10m2 g to 300m21 Test Method The antimicrobial activity of solutions of sodium lauryl sulphate can be determined as follows Tooth units are prepared in the form of 24 x 10 x 3 mm acrylic plastic tiles. A medium is prepared comprising Trypticase soy broth obtained from Baltimore Biological Laboratories with 5 added sucrose sterilized by autoclaving in 500 ml quantities. The 500 ml quantities are then inoculated with a standard quantity of plaque forming microorganisms.In successive tests, the inoculum consists of 0.5 ml from human saliva, and bacterial cultures ofS. aureus,St. faecalis, Ps. aeruginosa, E. coli,C. Åalbicans, S. cerevisiae, and A. viscosus, each containing uniform number of cells, suitably of the order of 5 x 108 cells per inoculum. After inoculation, 10 ml aliquots are aseptically transferred to sterile 150 x 20 mm test tubes containing the plastic tiles. The tubes are incubated at 370C for 24 hours. The tubes are then shaken on a Vortex Mixer for 10 seconds to remove loose pellicle which is allowed to settle.The tiles are then transferred to test tubes containing the test solutions for 30 seconds and are then put into tubes containing sterile distilled water for the same period. Control tiles receive two 30 seconds treatment with sterile water. The tiles are then replaced into the test tubes containing inoculated medium broth and are incubated at 37 0C. After 3 treatments, the plaque adhering on the tiles is measured employing a conventional chemical protein determination procedure.