# Production of catalysts by impregnation and use thereof in oxidation type reactions.

## Abstract
A process for improving the catalytic properties of a substantially crystalline iron bismuth molybdate oxide com plex interim catalyst comprises incorporating at least one element from Groups IA, IB, IIB, IIIA and IIIB of the periodic Table into the catalyst by impregnation, none of the Group IA elements incorporated into the catalyst by impregnation being derived from a molybdate or silicate. The catalysts provide improved results in oxidation type reactions.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for improving the catalytic properties of a substantially crystalline iron bismuth molybdate oxide complex interim catalyst comprising incorporating at least one element from Groups IA, IB, IIB, IIIA and IIIB of the Periodic Table into the catalyst by impregnation, none of the Group IA elements incorporated into the catalyst by impregnation being derived from a molybdate or silicate. 2. A process as claimed in claim 1 characterised in that the interim oxide complex is formed by forming a precatalyst and thereafter calcining said precatalyst in an oxygen containing gas, b the interim oxide complex is impregnated with a solution of said element, and c the impregnated interim oxide complex is calcined in an oxygen containing gas. 3. A process as claimed in claim 2 characterised in that the solution is free of molybdenum and silicon. 4. A process as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3 characterised in that the improved catalyst produced by said process has the formula A B,C BidFe Mo 0 wherein A is at least one element selected from the Group I, II and III elements B is one or more Group VIII elements other than Fe, preferably Co and or Ni and optionally Cr and or Mn C is P, As, Sb, S, Te and or Sn and wherein a is 0.1 12 b is 0.1 12 c is 0.1 12 d is greater than 0 12 e is 0.1 12 f is 0.1 12 and x is a number determined by the valence requirements of the other elements present. 5. A process for the catalytic oxidation of olefins to produce aldehydes and acids, ammoxidation of olefins to produce unsaturated nitriles and oxydehvrogenation of olefins to produce diolefins, wherein a catalyst produced by a process as claimed in any of claims 1 to 4 iX used.

## Description
PRODUCTION OF CATALYSTS BY IMPREGNATION AND USE THEREOF INOXIDATION TYPE REACTIONS . The present invention relates to improved oxide complex catalysts for use in various oxidation type reactions such as, for example, the oxidation of propylene or isobutylene to produce acrolein and acrylic acid or methacrolein and methacrylic acid respectively, the ammoxidation of propylene or isobutylene to produce acrylonitrile or methacrylonitrile, respectively, or the oxydehydrogenation of isoamylenes to produce isoprene. Iron bismuth molybdate oxidation catalysts are well known and many different promoters have been proposed for such systems. See, for example, U.S. Patent 3,642,930, in which alkali metals and optionally cobalt and or nickel are disdosed as useful. See also U.S. Patent 4J23,453 wherein the Group II elements are proposed. Although known catalysts exhibit good catalytic properties, it is a constant objective to provide new catalysts having even better catalytic properties. Accordingly, it is an object of the present invention to provide a new technique for making catalysts of improved catalytic properties. We have found that iron bismuth molybdate oxide complex catalysts promoted with Group I, II and or III elements of improved catalytic performance can be obtained provided that at least some of the Group I, II or III elements are incorporated into the catalyst by impregnation of a preformed and calcined iron bismuth molybdate oxide complex. Thus, the present invention provides an improvement in the known process for producing an oxidation catalyst comprising a substantially crystalline iron bismuth molybdate oxide complex wherein at least a portion of one or more elements in the catalyst selected from GroupsIA,IB, IIB, IIIA and IIIB of the Periodic Table is incorporated into the catalyst by impregnation and further wherein none of the Group IA elements incorporated into the catalyst by impregnation is derived from.a molybdate or silicate. Catalysts to which the present invention applies i.e. final catalyst product are substantially crystalline oxide complexes having the following general formula A b C Bi Fe MofOx wherein A is at least one element selected from the Group IA, IB, IIA, IIB, IIIA and IIIB elements B is one or more Group VIII elements other than Fe, preferably Co and or Ni and optionally Cr and or Mn C is P, As, Sb, S, Te and or Sn and wherein a is 0.1 12 b is 0.1 12 c is 0.1 12 d is greater than 0 12 e is 0.1 12 f is 0.112 and x is a number determined by the valence requirements of the other elements present and further wherein the molybdenum content is greater than the contents of any other element in the catalyst, excluding oxygen. Preferably, a is 0.1 to 6, b is 0.1 to 12, c is 0.1 to 12, d is greater than 0 to 4, e is 0.1 to 12 and f is 12. The above catalysts normally contain at least some alkali metal. Also, the bismuth content is usually 0.1 to 5, preferably 0.5 to 2, more preferably aboutl, based on 12 atoms of molybdenum. In addition, the iron content is normally about 1 to 5, preferably 1.5 to 4, more preferably 2 to 3, based on 12 atoms of molybdenum. Especially preferred catalysts are those defined by the following formula 1m11n111 013pDqFe rBisMotOx wherein I is at least one Group I element, preferably K, Rb, Cs and or Cu II is at least one Group II element, preferably Mg, Ca and or Zn III is at least one Group III element, preferably Al and or T1 B is at least one of Co, Ni, Mg and optionally Mn and or Cr D is P, As, Sb, Te and or Sn and wherein m is O to 1 n is O to 12 o is O to 12 p is O to 10 q is O to 6 r is 1 to 1 2 t s is 0.5 to 1 2 t t is 8 to 16 x is a number determined by the valence requirements of the other elements present0 The catalysts of the invention can be either unsupported or supported. If supported, conventional supports such as silica, alumina, Alundum, zirconia, titania and the like can be employed.Any amount of support can be employed. The catalysts of the present invention are made by forming an oxide complex in a conventional manner except that at least some of the Group I, IIB and or III elements of the catalysts are added by an impregnation technique using a solution of these elements to impregnate a preformed and calcined oxide complex of the other elements. Thus in accordance with the present invention, an oxide complex is formed by a conventional technique, this oxide complex containing all of the elements of the desired catalyst except for at least some of the Group I, IIB and or III elements which will be added by subsequent impregnation. After this interim oxide complex is made, it is impregnated with a solution of a Group I, II and or III element, dried and calcined to produce the objective catalyst. In accordance with the first step of the present invention therefore, an interim oxide complex is formed by a conventional technique. Most easily, this is accomplished by forming a solution or slurry, usually in water, of the elements to be incorporated into the interim oxide complex usually in the form of salts having heat decomposable anions or cations and or oxides. The liquid slurry medium is removed from the slurry to form a precatalyst and the precatalyst is then calcined in air at 0 elevated temperature, for example 600 to 900 C for an extended period of time, 0.5 to 50 hours. During such calcination, care should be taken to avoid gross decomposition of the catalyst such as occurs in McClellan,U.S, Patent 3,415,886. In this regard, an essential feature of the McClellan technique is that the interim bismuth molybdate on silica material which is composed of various crystalline molybdates be heated under conditions which are so severe that these crystalline materials are substantially destroyed and replaced with a substantially amorphous phase. This procedure is totally avoided in accordance with the present invention whereby the catalysts produced have the conventional structure, i.e. they are substantially crystalline. Techniques for making oxide complexes in the conventional manner are well known and disclosed, for example, in U.S. Patent 3,642,930. In another embodiment of the invention, the interim oxide complex can be a used catalyst, that is a catalyst which has already been used in an oxidation or ammoxidatioi type reaction to produce valuable product. Once the interim oxide complex is produced as described above, it is impregnated in accordance with the present invention with a solution of a Group I, IIB orIII element. In order to obtain dissolution of the GroupI, IIB or III element, a compound of the element which is soluble in the liquid used to form the slurry is normally employed. For example, if water is chosen as the solution medium, nitrates of the elements can be used. On the other hand, if an organic liquid such as an alcohol is used as the liquid, organic compounds of the elements in question, such as for example acetates can be employed. Also, it is possible to use the element directly if they can be made to dissolve in the appropriate liquid. In our U.S. Patent 3,280,166 there is shown improvement of the properties of a bismuth molybdate or bismuth phosphomolybdate catalyst by impregnating the catalysts with materials which decompose to yield barium oxide and silicon oxide. Potassium silicate is an example of a material which will supply silicon for the silicon oxide. U.S. 4,052,332, discloses a process for rejuvenating used or spent iron bismuth molybdates in which the spent catalyst is impregnated with a solution containing bismuth and molybdenum. Alkali metal molybdates are examples of materials which can be used to supply molybdenum to the impregnating solution.In accordance with both these techniques, alkali metal would be deposited on the catalyst if a silicate or molybdate of an alkali metal were employed as a source compound, and therefore in accordance with the present invention silicates or molybdates of alkali metal are not employed as source compounds for supplying alkali metal to the impregnating solution. The liquid used for the impregnating solution is not critical and both aqueous and organic liquids can be employed. For example, in additional to water, various alcohols and especially ethanol, propanol and so forth can be employed as can acetone, hydrocarbons, etc. Also, mixed systems can be employed. For example, solutions of water and various organic acids such as tartaric, oxalic, acetic, citric, chloroacetic acid and the like can be employed. Also, various compounds which aid solubility can also be included. For example, various mineral acids such as GENOA, H2S04, HG1, H3PO4 and the like can be included. Basically, any liquid can be employed so long as the liquid does not exhibit a significant adverse effect on the ultimate catalyst produced.For example, strong bases should be avoided since they may poison the ultimate catalyst product. The impregnating element is deposited in the interim oxide complex by mixing the interim complex with the impregnating solution and thereafter removing the liquid. For ease of operation and control of the amount of impregnant deposited on the catalyst, this is usually accomplished by mixing the impregnating solution and the interim complex together and thereafter evaporating the impregnating liquid. The concentration of impregnant in the impregnating liquid and the relative amounts of impregnating liquid and interim oxide complex are not critical and can be easily selected by those skilled in the art to facilitate ease of impregnation. Usually, however, the amount of impregnating solution will be no more than 1.5, preferably 1.1, more preferably 1.0 times the pore valume of the interim catalyst to be impregnated. Once the impregnating liquid is removed, the impregnated interim oxide complex is calcined at elevated temperature and pressure to set the impregnant metal into the catalyst and establish the final relationship of the atoms therein. Calcination is accomplished by heating at elevated temperature in the presence of an oxygen containing gas, normally air, in a routine manner. For example, heating in accordance with the above noted U.S. Patent 3,642,930, is preferred. Again, care must be taken to avoid destruction of the crystalline bismuth molybdates as occurs in the above noted McClellan patent. The catalysts produced by the process of the invention can be used in all oxidation type reactions in which analogous catalysts are used, such as for example oxidation of olefins to produce aldehydes and acids, ammoxidation of olefins to produce unsaturated nitriles and oxydehydrogenation of olefins to produce diolefins. The following examples illustrate the present invention. COMPARATIVE EXAMPLE A A silica supported, alkali metal promoted catalyst of the type shown in U.S. 3,642,930 was charged into a fluid bed reactor and contacted with a feed comprising 1.8 propylene 2.2 NH3 3.6 02 2.4 N2 6 H20 at 4300C for a contact time of 2 seconds. The gross reaction product obtained was recovered and analyzed and it was found that acrylonitrile was produced in yields of 77.60 0 based on the propylene fed with a selectivity to acrylonitrile of 82.2 . EXAMPLE 1 Comparative Example A was repeated except that 25 gms.of the catalyst of Comparative Example A after being formed was impregnated with 20 gms. of an aqueous solution containg 0.042 gms. potassium acetate. After impregnation, the catalyst was washed with water, dried and then 0 calcined in air at 570 C for 3 hours. The potassium impregnated catalyst was then used in the same way as inComparative Example A to produce acrylonitrile. In this example, acrylonitrile was produced with yields of 80.0 based on the propylene fed with a selectivity to acrylonitrile of 81. 8 . EXAMPLE 2 Example 1 was repeated except the impregnating solution was composed of an aqueous solution of copper acetate, and the amount of copper impregnated in the catalyst was such that the copper content was Cut 2 based on 12 molybdenum atoms. In this example, acrylonitrile was produced with yields of 79.4 based on the propylene fed with a selectivity to acrylonitrile of 81.8 . From the above it can be seen that catalysts of improved properties can be produced by forming the catalysts using an impregnating technique to incorporate at least some of the Group I, II or III elements into the catalyst.