# Continuous heat treating line for mild and high tensile strength stell strips or sheets.

## Abstract
In a continuous heat treating line for a cold rolled steel strip S or sheet comprising a heating zone, a soaking zone, a primary cooling zone, an overaging zone, a secondary cooling zone and a posttreating zone, the improvement wherein said primary cooling zone comprises at least a pair of vertical warm water dip cooling tanks W, W each provided with an immersed deflector roll 22, 22a , the first of said tanks W being provided with means for controlling the length of a dipped strip portion, while the second of said tanks W is provided with means for controlling the tem perature of warm water in said second tank and at least a pair of means 23 for producing jets of warm water.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. In a continuous heat treating line for a cold rolled steel strip or sheet comprising a heating zone, a soaking zone, a primary cooling zone, an overaging zone, a secondary cooling zone and a posttreating zone, the improvement wherein said primary cooling zone comprises at least a pair of vertical warm water dip cooling tanks each provided with an immersed deflector roll, the first of said tanks being provided with means for controlling the length of a dipped strip portion, while the second of said tanks is provided with means for controlling the temperature of warm water in said second tank and at least a pair of means for producing jets of warm water. 2. A continuous heat treating line as set forth in claim 1, wherein said tanks are connected to each other by a strip transfer zone provided with a liquid tight partition which permits the passage of said strip therethrough. 3. A continuous heat treating line as set forth in claim 1, wherein said tanks are connected to each other by a partition, and provided at their boundary with a pair of vertically juxtaposed deflector rolls which are immersed at least partly in warm water in said tanks to keep said strip from being exposed to the open air when travelling from one of said tanks to the other. 4. A continuous heat treating line as set forth in claim 1, 2 or 3, further including a primary slow cooling zone provided with a gas jet cooler between said soaking zone and said tanks.

## Description
CONTINUOUS HEAT TREATING LINE FOR MILD AND HIGH TENSILE STRENGTH STEEL STRIPS OR SHEETS BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 1. Field of the Invention This invention relates to a continuous heat treating line for a cold rolled steel strip or sheet. More particularly, it is concerned with a continuous heat treating line for strips or sheets of various types of steels, including both mild steel e.g., for deep drawing quality and high tensile strength steel.2. Description of the Prior Art Continuous annealing has recently been replacing inefficient batch annealing for the production of a cold rolled steel strip or sheet. Different continuous annealing processes are available, and classified by the method for primary cooling which is performed after heating and soaking. Two methods are presently in use for primary cooling, i.e., gas jet cooling and water quenching. A typical annealing cycle including gas jet cooling is shown at b1 in FIGURE 1 for a mild steel strip or sheet, and at b1 in FIGURE 2 for a high tensile strength steel strip or sheet. A typical annealing cycle including water quenching is shown at b2 in FIGURE 1 for a mild steel strip or sheet, and at b2 in FIGURE 2 for a high tensile strength steel strip or sheet.The annealing process including gas jet cooling is disclosed, for example, in Japanese PatentPublication No. 5335 1976, and the annealing process including water quenching in Unexamined Japanese PatentPublication No. 18415 1977. These processes, however, have their own problems as will hereinafter be pointed out. 1 The process employing gas jet cooling gives a strip or sheet cooling rate in the order of 10 C per second, and enables the terminal cooling temperature control in which the cooling of a strip or sheet is stopped at a desired temperature, for example, an overaging temperature.No reheating zone is required before an overaging zone.This process is, therefore, economical from the standpoint of cost for both equipment and energy consumption. The lower cooling rate, however, makes it necessary to employ steel containing larger quantities of alloying elements in order to produce a high tensile strength steel strip or sheet of, particularly, the type having a dual phase structure for which the demand has recently been increasing.This means a considerable increase in the cost of production. 2 The process employing water quenching gives a strip or sheet cooling rate in the order of 1,0000C per second, and enables the production of a high tensile strength steel strip or sheet from steel containing smaller quantities of alloying elements. The cooling rate is, however, too high to permit any terminal cooling temperature control for the production of a mild steel strip or sheet.It is too high even for the production of a high tensile strength steel strip or sheet, and it is necessary from a metallurgical standpoint to temper a water quenched strip or sheet. In either event, it is imperative to reheat the strip or sheet as indicated at R in FIGURES 1 and 2. This gives rise to an increase in the costs of equipment and energy consumption. The reheating of strip results in the distribution of fine carbide particles in its crystal grains. These particles tend to lower the formability of strip, whether it may be of mild or high tensile strength steel, and particularly, its ductility. There has recently been proposed another cooling method in order to overcome the problems involved in the prior methods. According to this method, a steel strip or sheet is dipped in a still bath of warm water having a temperature which is close to its boiling point, as disclosed in Unexamined Japanese Patent Publication No.93619 1977. In a high temperature range, uniform film boiling is caused to occur to the strip surface and the strip is cooled not rapidly at a rate of, say, 40 C per second, while in a low temperature range, the strip is cooled rapidly at a rate of, say, 1500C per second with nucleate boiling on the strip surface. Thus, two stage cooling is naturally effected. This warm still water dip cooling method is intended for producing a mild steel strip or sheet without reheating it by stopping the cooling of the strip at its overaging temperature about 4000C , or producing a high tensile strength steel strip or sheet from steel containing smaller quantities of alloying elements by cooling the strip rapidly at a mild rapid cooling rate. This method, however, presents a problem in connection with the production of a high tensile strength steel strip or sheet. The inflection point of the two stage cooling according to this method usually resides at a strip temperature of about 3000C. The strip is cooled to that temperature at a relatively slow rate of, say, 40 C per second.During the production of a high tensile strength steel strip or sheet of, particularly, the type having a dual phase structure, its cooling curve is likely to cross the nose of a continuous cooling transformation CCT diagram, depending on the steel composition involved curve d in FIGURE 3 .Thus, there is every likelihood that the reduction in the quantity of alloying elements in the strip may not be achieved. According to the warm still water dip cooling method, it is essential to employ a bath of warm water having a temperature very close to its boiling point for example, higher than 900C in order to maintain the proper shape of strip. As a result, the cooling curve for a strip is determined solely by its thickness, and therefore, its cooling rate and the inflection point of its two stage cooling are also invariable. This lack of flexibility is undesirable in view of the future requirements expected to be directed to various types of high tensile strength steel strips or sheets. Moreover, the inflection point of the two stage cooling according to the warm still water dip cooling method, which corresponds to the transition point from film boiling to nuclear boiling, creates a great difference in cooling rate which is likely to destroy the shape of strip Development of Water Quenching Techniques for Cold RolledSteel Strip , TETSU TO HAGANE, Journal of The Iron and SteelInstitute of Japan, No. 6, Vol. 62, 1976 . The warm still water dip cooling method is not only very advantageous for the production of a high tensile strength steel strip or sheet as compared with the method employing gas jet cooling or water quenching, but also is even likely to result in the failure to obtain a product having a satisfactory shape. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION It is an object of this invention to provide a novel heat treating line which overcomes the drawbacks of the warm still water dip cooling method, and enables the production of not only a mild steel strip or sheet, but also a high tensile strength steel strip or sheet. It is another object of this invention to provide a continuous heat treating line which ensures the cooling control for a steel strip or sheet by preventing its exposure to the atmosphere as far as possible when it travels from one bath of warm water to another. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS FIGURE 1 is a graph showing an annealing and cooling cycle for a mild steel strip or sheet FIGURE 2 is a graph showing a heat treating cycle for a high tensile strength steel strip or sheet FIGURE 3 is a cooling curve for the continuous heat treatment of a high tensile strength steel strip or sheet FIGURE 4 is a diagrammatic representation of a continuous cold rolled steel strip heat treating line including the continuous heat treating apparatus of this invention FIGURE 5 is a detailed view of the primary cooling apparatus employed in FIGURE 4 FIGURE 6 illustrates another primary cooling apparatus FIGURE 7 illustrates still another primary cooling apparatus FIGURE 8 is a diagrammatic representation of an apparatus for controlling the strip dip length in a primary cooling tank FIGURE 9 is a diagrammatic representation of a system for controlling the temperature of the warm water bath in the primary cooling tank and FIGURE 10 is a diagrammatic representation of a primary cooling apparatus provided with a gas jet cooler. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION The inventors of this invention have thought of the following primary cooling arrangements for the production of both mild and high tensile strength steel strips or sheets i The warm still water dip cooling method is employed to effect the terminal cooling temperature control for the production of a mild steel strip or sheet and ii The two stage cooling method is employed for the production of a high tensile strength steel strip or sheet, and a different method from the warm still water dip cooling method is employed for at least the second stage of cooling. The second stage of cooling for the production of a high tensile strength steel strip or sheet is effected by a kind of warm water cooling system which may also be used for warm still water dip cooling method. A jet is, however, blown against the strip in warm water in order to remove a vapor film uniformly from the strip surface so as to cool the strip in a good shape. If the water in which the strip is dipped has excessively low temperature, it is cooled too rapidly, and must be reheated for tempering as hereinbefore pointed out. It is, therefore, recommended that the strip be cooled under the conditions which will hereinafter be described. It is advisable to dip the strip in warm water having a temperature of at least 600C so that it may be cooled at a rate not higher than 5000C per second.The use of water having too high a temperature results in a lower cooling effect, a higher cost of equipment, and the failure to achieve a cooling rate of at least per second which is required to produce a quenched structure in the strip economically. Therefore, it is advisable to use warm water having a temperature which is not higher than 750C. It is, thus, preferable to employ warm water jet cooling method which is performed in a warm water bath having a temperature of at least 60 C, but not higher than 750C for the second stage of cooling for the production of a high tensile strength steel strip or sheet. According to this method, the strip may be cooled at a rate of 1000C to 5000C per second, and if cooling is started at a strip temperature of at least 400 C, the strip may be cooled in accordance with a continuous cooling curve not crossing the nose of the CCT diagram see curve c in FIGURE 3 , and it is possible to produce the strip from steel containing smaller quantities of alloying elements. The cooling curve for the strip is flexible, since the temperature at which the cooling of the strip is started is variable.This warm water jet cooling method and the said warm still water dip cooling method are combined, and called warm water cooling method. The first stage of cooling for the production of a high tensile strength steel strip or sheet is effected by dipping the strip in a still bath of warm water having a temperature close to its boiling point so as to maintain the proper shape of strip. The strip is cooled at a not high rate of, say, 200C to 900C per second. This cooling rate promotes the diffusion and concentration of carbon and alloying elements in the austenitic phase of the strip, and thereby facilitates the martensitic transformation of the strip structure during the second stage of rapid cooling by a jet of warm water. It is advisable to employ an inflection point of at least 4500C, or preferably at least 5500C for the two stage cooling in order to achieve a greater reduction in the quantity of alloying elements in the steel. If the temperature is too high, however, the solubility limit of carbon and alloying elements imposes limitations on their diffusion and concentration. Therefore, the inflection point should not be higher than 7100C. An approximate annealing cycle for the operation of the equipment according to this invention is shown at a in FIGURE 1 for a mild steel strip or sheet, and at a in FIGURE 2 for a high tensile strength steel strip or sheet. According to these annealing cycles, a mild steel strip or sheet can be subjected to overaging treatment without reheating by the control of the temperature at which the cooling of the strip is stopped, while it is possible to economize the alloying elements in the production of a high tensile strength steel strip or sheet without reheating it by cooling it rapidly at a mild rate to a temperature below the M5 point. The strip is soaked at a temperature between A1 and A3 transformation temperatures in a time between 20 seconds and 2 minutes, for recrystallization and grain growth in FIGURE 1 and for initial dual phase formation in FIGURE 2. During the second stage of cooling by a jet of warm water, it is necessary to cool the strip so that its temperature may drop below the M5 point, as shown by curve c in FIGURE 3. The M5 point of a high tensile strength steel is usually in the vicinity of 3000C, though it depends on the steel composition. In order to be completely lower than that temperature, the strip must be cooled to a temperature not higher than 2000C. Since the rapid cooling of the strip is effected at a milder rate 100 500 C per second than when cold water is used, no tempering is required after cooling to ensure the proper formability of the product, and consequently the energy otherwise required for reheating the strip can be saved. According to this invention, a vertical tank is employed for both the first and the second stages of cooling in order to cool the strip uniformly to ensure its proper shape. A mild steel strip or sheet does not present the problem of an improper shape even if the nozzle may not be used for cooling it, since its cooling is stopped before the strip reaches the inflection transition point of about 3O00C from film boiling to nucleate boiling, so that it may later be overaged at a temperature of about 4000C. The warm still water dip cooling of the strip is to be started at a temperature which is sufficiently low for a metallurgical reason and for ensuring the proper shape of the strip, especially when the soaking temperature is rather high. It is, therefore, desirable to cool the soaked strip slowly by using a gas jet cooler, if required, before its cooling by warm still water is started. In this case, the strip may be cooled at a rate of 50C to 300C per second so that it may have a temperature of 6000C to 8000C when it is dipped in the warm still water tank. A cooling rate below 50C per second is improper as it calls for an excessively large apparatus, while a cooling rate over 300C per second should also be avoided, as it is not sufficiently slow from a metallurgical standpoint or for ensuring the proper shape of the strip. In the event the strip travels at a high speed to achieve high productivity, a single cooling tank may not be sufficient, but a plurality of warm water tanks may be provided for cooling the strip to a predetermined temperature. In such a case, it is most advisable to ensure that the strip be always kept in warm water, since its temperature control is difficult if it is exposed to the atmosphere during. its travel from one tank to another. If a mild steel strip or sheet has been cooled in the first cooling tank to an overaging temperature of about 4000C, the remaining tank or tanks are emptied of warm water. A bath temperature control system is provided for the warm water jet cooling tank to control the cooling rate of the strip. Moreover, a dipping length control system is provided for warm still water dip cooling tank so that the terminal cooling temperature of the strip may be controlled by adjusting the time for which the strip stays in warm water according to the production rate tons per hour . Thus, the apparatus of this invention is usable for producing both mild and high tensile strength steel strips or sheets. A high tensile strength steel strip or sheet may be passed through the overaging zone which has been cooled to ordinary room temperature. The upper level of warm water bath is always covered by a protective atmosphere in order to prevent oxidation of the strip in the air. According to this invention, warm water may be water or an aqueous bath, for example, an aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide. If the latter is used, the strip obtains a bright surface which is free from any oxide film. The invention will now be described in further detail with reference to the drawings. FIGURE 4 is a diagrammatic representation of a continuous annealing line in which the apparatus of this invention is used. The line includes a pay off reel 1, a welder 2, a cleaning device 3, an entry looper 4, a heating zone 5, a soaking zone 6 and a primary cooling apparatus 7 embodying this invention.A primary slow cooling zone 6a provided with, for example, a gas jet cooler is sometimes employed between the soaking zone 6 and the primary cooling apparatus 7. An overaging zone 8 is provided after the primary cooling apparatus 7.No reheating zone is required between the primary cooling apparatus 7 and the overaging zone 8. The line further includes a secondary cooling zone 9, a posttreatment device 70, a delivery looper 11, a temper rolling mill 12, a finishing and inspecting section 13, a delivery shear 14 and a coiling reel 15. All the furnaces 5, 6, 6a, 8 and 9 as well as tanks 7 and 10 in the line shown in FIGURE 4 are of the vertical type to save the space for installation. The line is, thus, suitable for the continuous heat treatment of a large quantity of steel strip S at a high speed. The line is a general purpose line used for producing not only a high tensile strength steel strip, but also a mild steel strip, since it includes the overaging zone 8, the temper rolling mill 12 and the delivery looper 11 having a sufficiently large capacity to allow the exchange of rolls in the temper rolling mill. It is, of course, possible to omit the overaging zone 8, the delivery looper 11 and the temper rolling mill 12 and construct a line used exclusively for the heat treatment of a high tensile strength steel strip or sheet. The primary cooling apparatus 7 may, for example, be constructed as specifically shown in FIGURE 5. The cooling apparatus shown in FIGURE 5 essentially comprises a pair of warm water tanks connected to each other, i.e., a first warm water tank 21 and a second warm water tank 21a. The apparatus also includes devices 22 and 22a for reversing the direction of travel of a steel strip S in the tanks 21 and 21a, respectively for example, sink rolls , an underwater jet header 23 provided in the second tank 21a along a downward path for strip S, and external rolls 24 1 to 24 4 about which strip S travels into or out of the tanks. The first tank 21 contains an aqueous bathW having a temperature close to its boiling point.Either the level L of the bath or the strip turning device 22 is raised or lowered to adjust the length of the strip portion staying in the bath to thereby enable the terminal cooling temperature control for the strip S. The second tank 21a contains an aqueous bath W maintained at a temperature of at least 600C, or preferably at most 750C. The levelL of the bath Wr may sometimes be lowered to a level below the strip turning device 22a to enable the strip S to pass through the second tank 21a without contacting the bath When the apparatus is used for producing a mild steel strip, the second tank 21a is emptied, and only the still, nearly boiling bath W in the first tank 21 is used for cooling the strip S until it is cooled to a predetermined temperature. If the production rate t h is so high that the strip fails to stay in the bath for a sufficiently long time, the second tank 21a may be used together.to provide an increased cooling capacity. In this case, the bath W in the second tank 21a is maintained at a temperature close to its boiling point, the underwater jet header 23 is not operated, and the dip length control system is operated. Even if the level L of the bath in the second tank 21a may be fixed, it is possible to control the terminal temperature at which the cooling of the strip is stopped, if the level L of the bath in the first tank 21 is raised or lowered. A high tensile strength steel strip or sheet is cooled in two stages. The first stage of its cooling is effected by the still, nearly boiling bath W in the first tank 21, and the second stage is effected by jets of warm water having a temperature of, say, about 700C, which are created in the bath W in the second tank 21a by the underwater jet header 23. The inflection point of such two stage cooling is usually in the range of 450 C to 7100C to satisfy the metallurgical requirement, and preferably in the range of 5500C to 7100C to economize the alloying elements in the steel. The underwater jet header 23 is provided for directing jets of warm water to the surfaces of the stripS travelling from the guide roll 243 to the guide roll 22a. The header 23 is supplied by a jet water supply pump 25 with warm water which may, for example, be obtained from the tank 21a. In other words, they define an internally recirculated jet system, and the operation of the jet system does not give rise to any change in the level of the bath in the tank but ensures continuously stable operation. An air shielding hood is provided for each tank and a gas tight tunnel is put between the soaking zone 6, the first tank 21, the second tank 21a and the overaging zone 8, in order to keep the strip portion above bath level in a protective atmosphere. A throat is provided for each tunnel between the soaking zone 6 and the first tank 21 or between the second tank 21a and the overaging zone a so as to prevent any back flow of steam from the tanks. In the event a relatively high soaking temperature of, say, 8000C or above is employed, the primary slow cooling zone 6a may be provided between the soaking zone 6 and the primary cooling apparatus 7 if required to maintain the proper shape of the strip, whether it may be of mild or high tensile strength steel see FIGURE 4 . A different form of the cooling apparatus is shown in FIGURE 6. This apparatus essentially comprises a pair of warm water tanks 31 and 31a connected to each other by a strip transfer zone provided below the levels of the baths in the tanks. The first tank 31 is a warm still water dip cooling tank provided with an external strip guide roll 34 and a pair of immersed strip guide rolls 32 and 37.The second tank 31a is a warm water jet cooling tank provided with an external strip guide roll 34a, a pair of immersed strip guide rolls 32a and 37a, and an underwater jet header 33. Although the apparatus of FIGURE 6 has only one warm still water dip cooling tank and only one warm water jet cooling tank, it is, of course, possible to construct an apparatus having a plurality of dip cooling tanks and a plurality of jet cooling tanks so that it may be suitable for use in a large capacity line. The strip transfer zone 38 is provided with a partition 36 which separates the two tanks 31 and 31a from each other in a liquid tight fashion. The partition 36 is provided with a pair of vertically juxtaposed pinch rolls 34 defining therebetween a path for the transfer of a steel strip S, from the first tank 31 to the second tank 31a.The stripS is introduced past the guide roll 34 into the tank 31, and cooled therein while travelling past the guide rolls 32 and 37. Then, it is transferred into the second tank 31a through the path between the pinch rolls 34, cooled while travelling past the guide rolls 37a and 32a, and transferred past the guide roll 34a into the overaging zone. The cooling apparatus of FIGURE 6 is characterized by the transfer of the strip S from the first tank 31 to the second tank 31a without being exposed to the atmosphere above the level of warm water, and the continued cooling of the strip even during its transfer from the tank 31 to the tank 31a. It is possible to eliminate from a strip cooling curve a shelf which would substantially lower the total cooling rate. The warm still water dip cooling tank 31 can employ either adjustable bath level method or movable sink roll method, for dip length control system. Still another form of the cooling apparatus according to this invention is shown in FIGURE 7. The apparatus essentially comprises three warm water tanks connected to one another. Each of the tanks 41a and 41b is a warm still water dip cooling tank, while the tank 41c is a warm water jet cooling tank. It is alternatively possible to provide a plurality of jet cooling tanks, or to construct an apparatus having a plurality of dip cooling tanks and a plurality of jet cooling tanks, so that it may be suitable for use in a large capacity line. The apparatus of FIGURE 7 is also characterized by the elimination of any region where the strip is exposed above the warm water, as is the case with the apparatus of FIGURE 6. The tanks are separated from one another only by partitions 46 1 and 46 2, and disposed in close proximity to one another. Only one strip turning roll deflector roll 47 1 or 47 2 is provided between every two adjoining tanks. Another roll 48 1 or 48 2 is disposed above each deflector roll, so that they may form a pair of pinch rolls.The strip S is, therefore, cooled in water without being exposed in the atmosphere. It is also possible to eliminate the shelf on the cooling curve which would substantially lower the total cooling rate. In this case, warm still water dip cooling tanks 41a and 41b can employ movable sink roll method only for dip length control system. The cooling tanks are of the vertical type. The horizontal tanks would not only give rise to an increase in the line length and thereby the cost of equipment, but also be likely to create different cooling results, including formation and removal of bubbles, between the upper and lower surfaces of the strip, resulting in the improper shape of the strip. The control of the terminal temperature to which a mild steel strip or sheet is cooled makes it necessary to adjust the length of the strip portion staying below the level of the bath in the warm still water dip cooling tank. This adjustment may, for example, be achieved by adjusting the level of the bath in the tank, or the position of the underwater strip turning devices, such as sink rolls.If the control of the sink roll position is chosen, there is no change in the length of the strip portion staying above the bath level. The adjustment of the bath level is illustrated in FIGURE 8. FIGURE 8 shows a warm still water dip cooling tank 51, a reservoir 56 disposed below the tank 51, a head tank 52 disposed above the tank 51, a pump 53, and valves 54 and 55. The dip cooling tank 51 has a bath level L which can be lowered if the valve 54 is opened to allow water to fall rapidly by gravity from the tank 51 into the reservoir 56. The water received in the reservoir 56 is raised by the pump 53 into the head tank 52, while the dip cooling tank 51 is still operating with a low bath level.When it is necessary to raise the level L of the bath in the tank 51, the valve 55 is opened to allow warm water to drop from the head tank 52 into the cooling tank 5i rapidly by gravity. The method utilizing gravity makes it possible to control the length of the dipped strip portion with a high response required for the strip S to travel at a high speed. When the jet cooling tank is used for cooling a high tensile strength steel strip or sheet, it is necessary to regulate the bath temperature at a constant level between, say, 600C and 750C, as hereinbefore pointed out. A specific arrangement for bath temperature control is, by way of example, shown in FIGURE 9. FIGURE 9 shows an indirect cooling method. FIGURE 9 shows a warm water dip cooling tank 61, a recirculating pump 62, a heat exchanger 65, an external cooling water line 66, a bath temperature detector 64 and a three way valve 67. Water is drawn from the tank 61 by the pump 62, delivered to the heat exchanger 65 where it is cooled by the cooling water 66r and returned into the tank 61. The bath temperature is detected by the detector 64, and the three way valve 67 is adjusted accordingly to control the quantity of cooling water supplied to the heat exchanger 65. Thus, the bath W discharges the heat brought by the strip S thereinto, and maintains a constant temperature. In the event preliminary slow cooling is required prior to primary cooling, an arrangement including such preliminary slow cooling is shown in FIGURE 10. FIGURE 10 shows a warm still water dip cooling tank 71 and a gas jet cooler 72 A strip S is first cooled slowly by the gas jet cooler 72, and then cooled at a predetermined rate by the tank 71. A hood 73 is provided between the gas jet cooler 72 and the first tank 71 so that the strip S may be kept from the open air until it is cooled in the bath W A throat 74 is provided for preventing any back flow of steam from the tank 71 to the gas jet cooler 72. As is obvious from the foregoing description, this invention incorporates into the primary cooling zone of a continuous annealing line a cooling system obtained by an excellent combination of dipping in a still bath of nearly boiling water and subsequently applying jets of warm water in a bath of warm water. It realizes cooling which is not excessively rapid, and enables the control of the temperature to which the strip is to be cooled, and two stage cooling having a variable inflection point. The apparatus of this invention is, therefore, useful in a general purpose line which can produce both mild and high tensile strength steel strips or sheets, and inexpensive to construct as an apparatus which manufactures products having excellent properties at a low cost.The apparatus enables the use of a flexible annealing cycle which provides a high potential for the development qf new products in the future. The advantages of the apparatus according to this invention will now be described in further detail as compared with the conventional apparatus and methods, i.e., gas jet cooling and water quenching. The comparison of product quality will first be made with reference to several specific examples. EXAMPLE 1 This example was directed to the production ofAl killed mild steel strips for drawing. The steel composition was basically as follows C 0049 , Si 0.02 , Mn 0.25 , P 0.013 , S 0.012 , Al 0.047 , and N 0.0035 .This steel was hot rolled into a strip having a thickness of 3.0 mm with a coiling temperature of 7250C. It was pickled, and cold rolled into a thickness of 0.8 mm. The cold rolled strips were continuously annealed by the continuous annealing apparatus of this invention and the conventional continuous annealing apparatus. They were annealed in accordance with the annealing cycles shown inFIGURE 1 in which curves a, b and b represent this invention, gas jet cooling and water quenching, respectively. The conditions of continuous annealing and the results are shown in TABLE 1. A bath for primary cooling had a temperature of about 980C in accordance with this invention, and about 40QC in accordance with the conventional method num 2 water quenching . As is obvious from TABLE 1, the continuous annealing apparatus of this invention enables the control as intended of the temperature to which the strip is to be cooled, thereby eliminating the necessity for reheating to an overaging temperature as required by the conventional method i2 water quenching , and permitting the production of cold rolled steel strips for drawing having excellent ductility. This invention does not differ from the conventional method num 1 gas jet cooling with respect to the control of the temperature to which the strip is cooled.This invention, however, gives a higher cooling rate, and enables cold rolled steel strips for drawing having a comparably excellent degree of formability to be produced at a lower cost in a shorter overaging time. EXAMPLE 2 This example was directed to the production of highly formable, high tensile strength steel strips having a dual phase structure, and a tensile strength in the order of 60 kg mmê. The steel composition was basically as follows C 0.079 , Si 0.58 , P 0.018 , S 0.009 , Al 0.061 , and N 0.0052 The quantity of Mn was varied according to continuous annealing process as shown in TABLE 2 to achieve a tensile strength of 60 kg mm2. These steels were hot rolled into a thickness of 2.3 mm at a finish rolling temperature of 8900C and a coiling temperature of 61qOC. The hot rolled products were pickled, and cold rolled into a thickness of 0.7 mm.The cold rolled strips were continuously annealed by the continuous annealing apparatus of this invention and the conventional apparatus. They were annealed in accordance with the annealing cycles shown inFIGURE 2 in which curves a, b1 and bz represent this invention gas jet cooling and water quenching, respectively. The conditions of continuous annealing and the results are shown in TABLE 2. A bath for primary cooling had a temperature of 980C in the first tank and 680C in the second tank, and about 400C in accordance with the conventional method num 2 water quenching . As is obvious from TABLE 2, the continuous annealing apparatus of this invention provides cooling which is not excessively rapid, and therefore, enables the elimination of the necessity for reheating for tempering despite the somewhat larger quantity of Mn required, and the production of high tensile strength steel strips having an outstandingly high degree of formability, as opposed to the conventional method num 2 water quenching . This invention provides a higher cooling rate particularly during the second stage of cooling, and therefore, enables a great reduction in the quantities of alloying elements in steels , as compared with the conventional method 1 gas jet cooling . An overall comparison and evaluation will now be mad of the process employing the apparatus of this invention and the conventional methods gas jet cooling and water quenching based on the results of the two examples as hereinabove described. TABLE 3 shows the comparison with respect to the product properties, production cost and equipment cost. The following is obvious from TABLE 3 1 Product Properties The process employing the apparatus of this invention enables the production of a product which is comparable to that of the conventional gas jet cooling process, since this invention does not require reheating before overaging for a mild steel strip see EXAMPLE 1 , nor the reheating of a high tensile strength steel strip for tempering after primary rapid cooling see EXAMPLE 2 , as opposed to the conventional water quenching process. 2 Production Cost As is obvious from EXAMPLE 1, the process employing the apparatus of this invention enables a drastic reduction in the cost of fuel for the production of mild steel strips, since it does not require reheating prior to overaging, as opposed to the conventional water quenching process. The invention requires a lower cost of electricity than the conventional gas jet cooling process, since it does not require any gaseous coolant recirculating system.Thus, the process employing the apparatus of this invention is less expensive than both of the conventional processes when they are compared in the production cost which is the sum of the costs of materials and utilities required for the continuous annealing line. As is obvious from EXAMPLE 2, the process employing the apparatus of this invention enables a reduction in the cost of materials owing to a reduction in the quantities of alloying elements required in steels, and thereby in the cost of production for a high tensile strength steel strip, as compared with the conventional gas jet cooling process. As compared with the water quenching process, this invention enables a reduction in the cost of fuel as it does not require preheating, but is sometimes likely to be somewhat more costly, since it requires somewhat larger quantities of alloying elements in steels, depending on the grade of the product required, as shown in TABLE 3. Thus, the use of the apparatus according to this invention enables a lower production cost in total than the conventional gas jet cooling process in the production of both mild and high tensile strength steel strips or sheets. The use of this invention is less expensive for the production of mild steel strips or sheets than the conventional water quenching process, but is sometimes likely to be more expensive for the production of high tensile strength steel strips or sheets. This invention is, however, quite often less expensive in total than the water quenching process since high tensile strength steel strips or sheets do not usually occupy a very large proportion in all the steel grades involved. 3 Equipment Cost The continuous annealing line according to this invention is considerably less expensive than the equipment required for the water quenching process, since it does not have a costly reheating zone, though its overaging zone is slightly greater in length. The line is substantially equal in equipment cost to the equipment required for the conventional gas jet cooling process, depending on the production capacity, since it includes the posttreating section not required for the conventional process, though it has a shorter overaging zone. As is obvious from the foregoing description, this invention provides an apparatus which is useful for carrying out a process which is superior to the conventional gas jet cooling and water quenching processes in any of the product properties, production cost and equipment cost. Table 1 EMI27.1 SEP ITEM PROCESE SEP Invention SEP Primary SEP slow SEP cool SEP Conventional SEP method SEP 1 SEP Conventional SEP method SEP 2 tb SEP ing SEP conducted SEP Gas SEP jet SEP cooling SEP Water SEP quarching tb SEP Steel SEP Capped SEP steel SEP Al killed SEP steel SEP Al killed SEP steel SEP Al killed SEP steel tb SEP Soak SEP temp. SEP 749 C SEP 755 C SEP 751 C SEP 750 C tb SEP SEP Starting SEP temp. SEP 749 C SEP 703 C SEP 751 C SEP 560 C tb SEP Cooling SEP rate SEP 47 C sec. SEP 42 C sec. SEP 11 C sec. SEP 1000 C sec. tb SEP Terminal SEP temp. SEP 403 C SEP 408 C SEP 401 C SEP 56 C tb SEP Target SEP 400 C SEP Target SEP 400 C SEP Target SEP 400 C tb SEP Cooling SEP method SEP Warm SEP still SEP Warm SEP still SEP water SEP Cold SEP water SEP jet SEP cooling tb SEP bath SEP temp. SEP water SEP dip SEP dip SEP cooling SEP Gas SEP jet SEP cooling SEP 40 C tb SEP cooling 98 C SEP 98 C tb SEP R hsating SEP No SEP No SEP No SEP Yes SEP up SEP to SEP 400 C tb SEP Overaging SEP time SEP 150 SEP sec. SEP 150 SEP sec. SEP 120 SEP sec. SEP 60 SEP sec. tb SEP Post SEP tretment SEP Yes SEP Yes SEP No SEP Yes tb SEP SEP Yield SEP point SEP 21.4 SEP 21.2 SEP 21.5 SEP 23.2 tb SEP kg mmê tb SEP Tensila tb SEP strength SEP 33.1 SEP 33.2 SEP 33.2 SEP 33.6 tb SEP kg mmê tb SEP Elongation SEP 43.3 SEP 43.2 SEP 43.1 SEP 42.4 tb SEP tb SEP Shape SEP flatness SEP good SEP good SEP good SEP Partial SEP edge SEP wave tb SEP Surface SEP bright SEP good SEP good SEP good SEP good tb SEP ness tb Table 2 EMI28.1 SEP ITEM PROCES SEP Invention SEP Primary SEP slow SEP Not SEP exposed SEP to SEP Conventional SEP method SEP 1 SEP Conventional SEP method SEP 2 tb SEP cooling SEP conducted SEP atmosphere SEP Gas SEP jet SEP cooling SEP Water SEP quarching tb SEP between SEP tanks tb SEP Steel SEP mein SEP continuant SEP 1.50 SEP Mn SEP 1.54 SEP Mn SEP 1,50 SEP Mn SEP 2.01 SEP Mn SEP 1.03 SEP Mn tb SEP Soak SEP temp. SEP 802 C SEP 805 C SEP 801 C SEP 807 C SEP 804 C tb SEP SEP Rapid SEP cooling SEP 802 C SEP 712 C SEP 801 C SEP SEP SEP start SEP temp. tb SEP First stage SEP 45 C sec. SEP 46 C sec. SEP 42 C sec. SEP 12 C sec. SEP 11 C sec. tb SEP cooling SEP rate tb SEP Inflection SEP 601 C SEP 605 C SEP 608 C SEP SEP 503 C tb SEP point tb SEP Second stage SEP 430 C sec. SEP 440 C sec. SEP 470 C sec. SEP SEP 1500 C sec tb SEP cooling SEP rate tb SEP Terminal SEP temp. SEP 92 C SEP 95 C SEP 96 C SEP 254 C SEP 58 C tb SEP Cooling SEP First SEP Warm SEP still SEP Warm SEP still SEP water SEP Warm SEP still SEP water tb SEP method SEP stage SEP water SEP dip SEP dip SEP cooling SEP dip SEP cooling SEP Gas SEP jet SEP cooling SEP Gas SEP jet SEP cooling tb SEP bath SEP cooling SEP 98 C SEP 98 C SEP 98 C tb SEP temp. SEP Second SEP Warm SEP water SEP jet SEP Warm SEP water SEP jet SEP Warm SEP water SEP jet SEP SEP Cold SEP water SEP jet tb SEP stage SEP cooling SEP 68 C SEP cooling SEP 68 C SEP cooling SEP 68 C SEP cooling SEP 40 C tb SEP Reheating SEP No SEP No SEP No SEP No SEP Yes SEP up SEP to SEP 250 C tb SEP Tempering SEP No SEP No SEP No SEP No SEP 60 SEP sec. tb SEP Post SEP treatment SEP Yes SEP Yes SEP Yes SEP No SEP Yes tb SEP SEP Tensile tb SEP strength SEP 61.5 SEP 61.3 SEP 61.8 SEP 61,3 SEP 62.1 tb SEP kg mmê tb SEP Elongation SEP SEP 35 SEP 38 SEP 37 SEP 25 SEP 24 tb SEP Yield SEP ratio SEP SEP 57 SEP 55 SEP 56 SEP 64 SEP 73 tb SEP Shape SEP flatness SEP Good SEP Good SEP Good SEP Good SEP Partial SEP edge SEP wave tb SEP Surface SEP brightness SEP Good SEP Good SEP Good SEP Good SEP Good tb Table 3 EMI29.1 SEP ITEM PROCES SEP Invention SEP Conventional SEP method SEP 1 SEP Conventional SEP method SEP 2 tb SEP Gas SEP jet SEP cooling SEP Water SEP quarching tb SEP Mild SEP steel SEP strip SEP Good SEP ductility SEP Good SEP ductility SEP Poor SEP ductility tb SEP Metallographic SEP No SEP fine SEP caridde SEP in SEP crystal SEP No SEP fine SEP carhide SEP in SEP Fine SEP carbide SEP particles SEP in tb SEP structure SEP grains SEP crystal SEP grains SEP cristal SEP grains, SEP formed SEP in tb SEP reheating tb SEP High SEP tensile SEP strength SEP Good SEP ductility SEP Good SEP ductility SEP Poor SEP ductility tb SEP steel SEP strip SEP Good SEP yield SEP ratio SEP Good SEP yield SEP ratio SEP Poor SEP yield SEP ratio tb SEP Metallographic SEP As SEP quarched. SEP No SEP fine SEP carbide SEP As SEP quenched. SEP No SEP fine SEP Tempered SEP structure SEP containing tb SEP structure SEP in SEP crystal SEP grains SEP carbide SEP in SEP crystal SEP grains SEP fine SEP carbide SEP particlesin tb SEP crystal SEP grains tb SEP Mild SEP steel SEP strip SEP Lower SEP cost SEP Reference SEP Higher SEP cost tb SEP Steel SEP Al killed SEP steel SEP Al killed SEP steel SEP Al killed SEP steel tb SEP Energy SEP No SEP reheating SEP No SEP reheating SEP Reheating SEP up SEP to SEP about SEP 400 C tb SEP High SEP tensile SEP strength SEP Lower SEP cost SEP Reference SEP Lower SEP cost tb SEP steel SEP strip tb SEP Steel SEP 1.5 SEP Mn SEP steel SEP 2.0 SEP Mn SEP steel SEP 1.0 SEP Mn SEP steel tb SEP Energy SEP No SEP reheating SEP No SEP reheating SEP Reheating SEP up SEP to SEP about SEP 250 C tb Equipment SEP cost SEP Appox. SEP equal SEP Referance SEP Higher SEP cost tb Reheating SEP zone SEP Not SEP provided SEP Not SEP provided SEP Provided tb Overaging SEP zone SEP Provided SEP for SEP 2.5 SEP min. SEP Provided SEP for SEP 3 SEP min. SEP Provided SEP for SEP 1 SEP min. SEP of tb SEP of SEP overaging SEP of SEP overaging SEP overaging tb Post SEP treating SEP Provided SEP Not SEP provided SEP Provided tb section tb