# A binary switching element and a selector stage, a selector and selector system comprising binary switching elements.

## Abstract
Contemporary communication networks, telephone exchanges in particular, are usually equipped with a comprehensive central control. A result thereof is that they are very complex. The invention provides a communication network having a high degree of distributed control and processing by providing a binary switching element from which selector stages, selectors and selector systems are assembled, which are employed in the whole network. The binary switching element 10 comprises means 15 which connect an input 11 to both a zero output 12 and a not output 14 and means 15 min connecting the input 11 to both a one output 13 and the not output 14 . One of the outputs 12, 13, 14 is activated depending on the logic value of the binary input signal and the presetting of the means 15, 15 min . An arbitrary large, flexible, simple and reliable communication network can be assembled by arranging these binary switching elements in series and or in parallel.

## Claims
1. A binary switching element, characterized in that the binary switching element has an input for binary input signals, a first output, the zero output, a second output, the one output, and a third output, the not output, that the binary switching element comprises means which are connected to the input, to the zero output and to the notoutput for activating either the zero output or the notoutput if the binary input signal has a first logic value, that the binary switching element further comprises means connected to the input, to the one output and to the notoutput for activating either the one output or the notoutput if the binary input signal has a second logic value, and that the two means are preset fr activating the desired output. 2. A binary switching element as claimed in Claim 1, characterized in that the two means are programmable and re programmable. 3. A selector stage comprising binary switching elements as claimed in Claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the selector stage comprises M M 2 parallel binary switching elements, M arbitration circuits, an input, a zero output, a one output and a not output, that each arbitration circuit has an input for binary input signals which input is connected to the input of the selector stage and that each arbitration circuit has an output which is connected to the input of an associated binary switching element, that the zero outputs of each binary switching element are interconnected and connected to the zero output of the selector stage, that the one outputs of each binary switching element are interconnected and connected to the one output of the selector stage, that the not outputs of each binary switching element are interconnected and connected to the not output of the selector stage, the binary input signals containing destination addresses on which the arbitration circuits mutually arbitrate which one of them will transfer the destination address to the associated binary switching element. 4. A selector comprising binary switching elements as claimed in Claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the binary switching elements are arranged in a tree structure, each branch being split into two further branches, that a first binary switching element is arranged on a first level, the input of the first binary switching element being the input of the selector, that the input signals applied to the in put of the selector are binary destination addresses which addresses contain N bits, a first bit of the binary destination address activating the binary switching element on the first level, that the zero output of the binary switching element on the first level is connected to a binary switching element which is arranged on a second level and that the one output of the binary switching element on the first level is connected to an input of a further binary switching element which is also on the second level, that the second bit of the binary destination address activates a switching element on the second level, that the zerooutput and the one output of the 2 exp i 2 binary switching elements i 2, 3 ... K, K 4 N on a i 1 th level are each connected to an input of further binary switching elements, the last mentioned switching elements being th th arranged on the i h level, the i h level of the destination th address activating a binary switching element on the i level, that the zero output and one output of the binary switching elements on the Kth level indicate the address of a node to which the destination address is conveyed and that the not outputs of the binary switching elements of all levels are connected to an output of the selector. 5. A selector comprising selector stages as claimed in Claim 3, characterized in that the selector stages are arranged in a tree structure, branches being split into two further branches, that a first selector stage is arranged on a first level, the input of the first selector stage being the input of the selector, that the input signals applied to the input of the selector are binary destination addresses each comprising N bits, a first bit of the binary destination address activating the selector stage on the first level, that the zero output of the selector stage on the first level is connected to an input of a selector stage which is arranged on a second level and the one output of the selector stage on the first level is connected to an input of a further selector stage which is also on the second level, that the second bit of the binary destination address activates a switching element on the second level, that the zero output and the one output of the 2 exp i 2 selector stages i 2,3, ... K, K N on an i 1 th level are each connected to an input of further selector stages, these last mentioned selector stages being th th arranged on the i level, the i bit of the destination th address activating a selector stage on the i level, that the zero outputs and one outputs of the selector stages on the Kth level indicate the address of a node to which the destination addresses is conveyed and that the noWoutputs of the selector stages of all levels are connected to an output of the selector. 6. A selector as claimed in Claim 5, characterized in that each of the selector stages on level i i 1,2,...K,K N comprises twice as many binary switching elements as each of the selector stages on level i 1 . 7. A selector system comprising selectors as claimed in any of the Claims 4, 5 and 6, characterized in that the selector system comprises at least two consecutive selectors, the not outputs of a selector being connected to the input of the subsequent selector.

## Description
A binary switching element and a selector stage, a selector and selector system comprising binary switching elements. The invention relates to a binary switching element. The invention also relates to a selector stage, a selector and selector system comprising such binary switching elements. Such a selector is disclosed in United StatesPatent 638,249. The selector is a step by step driven switch, which can move in 10 steps in the vertical direction and can rotate, also in 10 steps, in the horizontal direction and establish a connection between the input and one contact of the contact bank having 10 x 10 contacts.This selector is usually designated two motion switch.The first automatic telephone exchanges were equipped with this type of selector and were called Strowger exchanges after the inventor of the selector. Apart from the fact that the use of these selectors made it at that time possible to carry on telephone calls without the intermediary of an operator, the advantage of the exchanges has remained in the fact that thanks to the decentralized structure a relatively high reliability can be obtained disturbances remain limited as much as possible to their immediate environment graceful degradiation . A disadvantage is that the control portion and the speech path portion form one whole, which resulted in a low degree of flexibility, inter alia as regards the network structure and the control.Further developments show that by adding a register to the selector a first step was made towards centralization of the control . namely, the register is used for a brief period of time namely for the period of time needed to establish the connection and the register can thereafter be employed for one or several other selectors Further centralization was accomplished by means of the exchanges commonly referred to as cross bar system exchanges in which centralized adjustment elements markers are provided which change the dialling information and make it suitable for energizing the cross bars In contrast with the Strowger exchanges where the selectors are directly driven by the dialled numbers direct control , in the cross bar exchange the dialling information is first taken up by a marker before the selector is set indirect control . A very high degree of centralization was achieved with the exchanges which are commonly referred to as stored program controlled exchanges. Virtually the whole control is effected centrally as a result of which the speech path network and the control form substantially distinct portions. These telephony networks have the drawbacks that they are very complex which is inter alia reflected by their capacity number of lines , number of components, number of people involved in their design, design time and the substantially unlimited technical possibilities determined by the programs. It is an object of the invention to provide a selector stage, selector and selector system with which a communication network having a high degree of flexibility and reliability is realized and which is applicable in a large variety of network structures with which the design complexity is reduced with which a change in, for example, number or place of terminal or subscriber is processed in a simple way and with which an alternative routing is realized in a simple way in the event of congestion, interferencesor breakdown of connection paths or nodes. According to the invention, the binary switching element is characterized in that the binary switching element has an input for binary input signals, a first output, the zero output, a second output, the one output, and a third output, the noWoutput, that the binary switching element comprises means which are connected to the input, to the zero output and to the not output for activating either the zero output or the not output if the binary input signal has a first logic value, that the binary switching element further comprises means which are connected to the input, to the one output and to the not output for activating either the one output or the not output if the binary input signal has a second logic value, and that the two means are preset for activating the desired output. The use of the high degree of distributed control and processing obtained in this way results in a comparatively simple, flexible and reliable communication network,Such communication networks are particularly suitable for use in public and private telephony systems as well as in telex networks and networks connecting computers. With the binary switching elements selector stages, selectors and selector systems can be assembled according to the invention to form more sophisticated switching functions. Embodiments of the invention and their advantages will now be further described with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which corresponding elements are given the same reference symbols.Herein Fig. 1a shows a binary switching element in accordance with the invention Fig. ib is a schematical representation of this binary switching element of Fig. la Fig. 2 shows a selector stage in accordance with the invention comprising binary switching elements as shown in Fig. la Fig. 3 shows an addressing tree showing the pattern in which binary switching elements of Fig. la are arranged Fig. 4 shows a selector system in accordance with the invention, comprising binary switching elements as shown in Fig. la and selector stages as shown in Fig. 2. A binary switching element 10, shown in Fig. 1, has an input 11, to which binary signals are applied and three outputs 12, 13 and 14. The binary switching element 10 comprises means 15 which are coupled to input 11 and to output 12 and 14 for activating output 12, designated zero output hereinafter, if the logic value of the actual bit applied to input 11, is a logic O and logic means 16 designated 0 sign bit OTB hereinafter has been set.If a logic 0 is applied to input 11, but the OTB has not been set, then output 14, designated not output hereinafter, is activated. The binary switching element 10 further comprises means 15 which are coupled to input 11 and to outputs 13 and 14 for activating output 13, designated oneoutput hereinafter, if a logic value of the actual bit applied to the input 11 is a logic 1 and logic means 17, designated 1 sign bit 1TB hereinafter, has been set.If a logic 1 is applied to input 11, but the 1TB has not been set then not output 14 is activated. Table I shows the truth table relating to the binary switching element 15. The symbol xt indicates that the logic value of the relevant element is not important 11don t care . TABLE I actual bit OTE 1TB activated output O O X not output 0 1 X zero output 1 X 0 not output 1 X 1 one output The structure of the binary switching element 10 is not shown in further detail since it can be derived directly from the truth table by a person skilled in the art of designing digital circuitry. Several embodiments are possible, both in the form of wired logic and in software . With the binary switching element shown inFig. 1 it is possible to assemble a selector stage as shown in Fig. 2. The selector stage 18 is connected to a bundle of incoming lines 19. Each line of the bundle 19 is connected to an individual input 20 1, 20 2, ... 20 M of the selector stage 18. Connection requests are transmitted to the selector stage 18 over the lines of the bundle 19. These connection requests contain the desired destination address d, for example in binary form. A destination address may be the subscriber number of the person called, to which, possibly, the subscriber s exchange code area code and telephone number may be added. The selector stage 18 comprises M arbitration circuits 21 1, ... 21 M which are arranged in series with the subsequent binary switching elements 10 1 ... 1O M an input of an arbitration circuit 21 i i 1, ... M is connected to the input 20 i of the selector stage and an output of arbitration circuit 21 i is connected to the input of binary switching element 10 i. The connection requests present on the bundle of incoming lines 19 are consequently applied in parallel to the arbitration circuit 20 1 20 M. The arbitration circuits 21, which are known per se, have the following function. If a destination address is offered on one of the lines of the incoming bundle 19 then only one of the arbitration circuits 20 i will forward destination address d on to the binary switching element 10 i.The relevant binary switching element will then transfer the destination address to one of the outputs 22, 23 and 24 selecting one of the bits of the destination address in the manner described above with reference to Fig. 1. Thus, the selector stage 10 selects an output 22, 23 or 24 on the basis of the logic value of one bit in the destination address. As a destination address usually comprises several bits it will be necessary to extend the provisions for that event. This is effected by arranging binary switching elements in accordance with an addressing tree as shown in Fig. 3. The addressing tree has three layers and is suitable for eight 23 desination addresses, for example subscriber s Ag, A1, A2 ... A7. A thick solid line in the addressing tree of Fig. 3 indicates which sign bits have been set while a thin line indicates that the sign bit has not been set the 1 sign bit corresponds to a branch extending to the right, the O sign bit corresponds to a branch going to the left in the Figure.The first layer comprises one binary switchingelement, the second layer comprises two binary switching elements and the third layer comprises four binary switching elements A destination address applied to origin 0 is decoded by the addressing tree. By way of example, Fig. 3 shows which path is followed if the destination address 5 binary code 101 is made accessible from 0 by setting the appropriate sign bits.Further destinations become accessible from 0 by setting the appropriate sign bits.IP în anaddressing tree all paths were shown as thick solid lines, all eight destination addresses A A would be accessible from 0. Generally, an addressing tree may have more or fewer layers than the three layers shown. If a destination address which is not located in the service area of O is applied to the input 0 of the addressing tree this address is discharged via the not output not shown Fig. 3 of the binary switching element in layer I. This also happens at the remaining binary switching element in the other layers.It is advantageous to give the 0 and 1 sign bits such a structure that they are programmable, which achieves in a simple way the mobility of subscriber terminals or nodes etc. It is not necessary for the addressing tree to be complete it is possible that some branches or even portions of the tree, consisting of several branches, are absent, for example because the network realized therewith is not yet wholly complete. A selector assembled from binary switching elements which are arranged in an addressing tree according to Fig. 3 is shown in Fig. 4. The selector 25 and the selector 26, which is structured in accordance with the same principle, each comprise a three layer addressing tree, so that it is possible to determine a maximum of eight destination addresses with each selector. The destination addresses are applied to an input 27 of the selector 25.Input 27 is connected to the input of the binary switching element 28. The first bit of a destination address determines in conjunction with the setting of the binary switching element 28 in other words the value of the OTE and or the 1TB whether the destination address is transferred to the zero output, to the one output or to the notoutput of the binary switching element 28. A further switching element 29 is connected to the zero output of the binary switching element 28, and a further switching element 30 is connected to the one output, these switching elements both being provided in the second layer. The zero output of binary switching element 29 is connected to an input of a switching element 31 provided in the third layer of selector 25. In that layer there are, in addition, the binary switching elements 32, 33 and 34.The not outputs of the 7 2n 1, wherein n 3 layers binary switching elements 28 34 are connected to an output 35 of the selector 25. Consequently, the selector 25 detects whether and, if so, which of the applied destination addresses is located in its service area and transfers the destination address to the output 36 i i 0,...7 corresponding to that destination address. The destination addresses while are not located in the service area of selector 25 are transferred to output 35. The input of a further selector 26 is connected to the output 35. Selector 26 operates in exactly the same way as selector 25. It will be obvious that selector 26 may consist of a larger or smaller number of layers. One or several selectors may be connected to the output 37 of selector 26. Ultimately there will be a last selector which in principle may be formed from binary switching elements which need not have not outputs. It is not necessary for the selectors to have the same number of layers K as there are destination address bits N . It is namely possible that a selector effects a pre selection on a group of bits. Instead of the single binary switching elements a selector stage 18 in Fig. 2 formed from several, parallel binary switching elements may be employed in the selector shown in Fig. 4. The connections between the selector stages and the connections between input 27 and selector stage 28 and output 35 and the selector stages connected thereto may alternatively all be a multiple connection, that is to say they may be formed by a bundle of connections such as bundle 19 in Fig. 2 . It is advantageous to choose the number of binary switching elements comprised in a stage such that in consecutive layers this number always differs by a factor of 2. Then the first layer comprises twice as many binary switching elements as the second layer, which itself comprises twice as many switching elements as the third layer etc.At the selector 25 in Fig. 4 this is schematically shown by the fact that the binary switching element 28 in the first layer is twice as wide as the binary switching elements 29 and 30 in the second layer, these last mentioned binary switching elements being twice as wide as the binary switching elements 31, 32, 33 and 34 in the third layer. This allows the required processing speed of the binary switching elements in all layers to be choosen to be equal. In a communication network a distinction can be made between a control network and an information network.In the control network connections are, for example, made and broken, while the actual communication, the transfer of the information occurs in the information network. The selector stages, selectors and selector systems form part of the control network They are employed to establish from selector to selector a path from caller terminal to the terminal called. In the conventional Strowger exchanger with in band signalling a signalling channel located within the frequency band used for speech the control network coincides physically predominantly with the information network. The path from caller terminal to the terminal called which was established in the signalling phase is thereafter employed as speech path connection though with an adapted frequency band .This is equally possible by means of a communication network comprising the selector stages, selector and selector systems in accordance with the invention. The path established in each node from input to free output serves in the information phase as a portion of the information connection so at telephone exchanges as a portion of the speech path connection . It is equally possible to construct the control network and the information network strictly separate. To a path or a portion of the path, as the case may be, in the control network there then corresponds a connection to the information network. For telephone exchanges this means that the speech path network is physically a different network than the control network. The switching system in the speech path network generally the information network may then be arranged in accordance with one of the known types space division, frequency division or time division multiplex. In a switching system with spatial distribution the coordinate switch es determined by the address of the free output in the speech path network is are closed for example by decoding the address in a switching system with timedivision multiplex a speech path is cyclically made available during a short period of time under the control of a connection memory in which the information for opening and closing in the correct manner at the correct instant the desired connection ports is stored, which information is determined from the address of the free output in a switching system with frequency division multiplex a speech channel is created by making available a specific frequency band, determined by the address from the free output.