# Alpha vinyl alpha aminoacids and their esters and pharmaceutical compositions containing them.

## Abstract
Novel α vinyl α aminoacids having the formula

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. Compounds having the formulaEMI21.1 and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein R isEMI21.2 H2N CH2 2 CH2 and R1 is H or C1 C18alkyl. 2. Compound of Claim 1 whereinR is C1 C6 alkyl. 3. Compounds of Claim 1 wherein R1 is H. 4. Compounds of Claim 1 having the L isomer configuration. 5. Compounds of Claim 1 whereinR isEMI22.1 6. Compounds of Claim 1 wherein R isEMI22.2 7. Compounds of Claim 1 having the formula EMI22.3 8. Compounds of Claim 1 wherein R isEMI23.1 9. Compounds of Claims 5, 6, 7 or 8 wherein a R1 is H or b R1 is H and said compound is the L isomer. 10. A pharmaceutical composition containing a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Claim 1.

## Description
oG VINYL AMINO ACIDS AND ESTERS AND PHARMACEUTICALCOMPOSITIONS CONTAINING THE SAMEBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention is concerned with novel a vinyl a amino acids having pharmaceutical utility. a Vinyl 3,4 dihydroxyphenylalanine is described in Tetrahedrion Letters No. 32, p. 2745 2748 1977 and No. 41, p. 3689 3692 1977 . Vinylglycine and a methyl a amino vinylacetic acid are also known compounds EActa. Chem. Scand., Sec. B 28 317 321 1974 Biochemistry 15 3070 76 1976 Japanese PatentApplication 70, 15011 . Certain novel a vinyl amino acids have been discovered. These compounds have pharmaceutical activity.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION a Vinyl a amino propionic acids and esters.DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS An embodiment of the present invention is Compounds having the formulaEMI2.1 and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein R isEMI2.2 or H2N CH2 2 CH2 and R1 is H or Cl Cl8alkyl The pharmaceutically acceptable salts are the acid addition salts of the Formula I compounds. Suitable acids include organic as well as inorganic acids. Preferred salts are the hydrohalides such as the hydrochlorides, hydrobromides and hydroiodides. Most preferred salts are the hydrochlorides. The compounds of Formula I have a chiral center and this accurs in optically active forms, i.e., optical isomers. These isomers are conventionally designated as D andL, d and 1, and , S and R or by a combination of these symbols. Where a compound name or formula does not indicate a specific isomer, all forms are included, i.e., the individual isomers, mixtures thereof and racemates of the optical isomers, the L form is preferred. R1 may be H ora Cl C18alkyl group.Examples of suitable alkyl groups are octadecyl, 2 ethylhexyl, lauryl, hexyl, heptyl, isopropyl, methyl and the like. Preferred R1 groups areH and C1 C6 hydrocarbon alkyl. Most preferredR1 groups are H and ethyl. One class of preferred R groups are the methoxyphenyl and the hydroxyphenyl groups, especially EMI4.1 Another preferred R group is the imidazolyl moiety EMI4.2 Illustrative examples of useful compounds are 2 vinyl 2 amino 3 4 hydroxyphenyl propionic acid, 2 vinyl 2 amino 3 2 methoxyphenyl propionic acid, 2 vinyl 2 amino 3 2,5 dimethoxy phenyl propionic acid, 2 vinyl 2 amino 3 3 hydroxyphenyl propionic acid octadecyl ester, 2 vinyl 2 amino 3 2 imidazolyl propionic acid 2 vinyl 2 amino 5 aminopentanoic acid, 2 vinyl 2 amino 3 2 methoxyphenyl propionic acid ethyl ester, and the like. The compounds of the present invention have p t rmaceutical activity and exhibit enzyme inhibition. Compounds of Formula I where R is said methoxy or hydroxy phenyl substituent have anti hypertensive activity. Thus, they are useful for treating hypertension high blood pressure in human beings alone or combined with carbidopa. For treating hypertension, these compounds may be administered to the hyperten sive patient orally or parenterally. Suitable conventional dosage forms are used such as tablets, troches, capsules, liquid formulations, e.g., solutions, dispersions, emulsions and the like. These pharmaceutical compositions may contain conventional pharmaceutically acceptable compounding ingredients, i.e., diluents, carriers, etc. and conventional pre parative procedures are used. The daily ntShypertensive dosage may be varied as required In general, a daily dosage range for the hypertensive patient is about 50 mg. to about 5000 mg., preferably from about 100 to about 3500 mg. and more at This attribute makes them useful as biochemical reagents. preferably from about 250 mg. to about 1500 mg. Compounds of Formula I where R is the imidazolyl moiety are pharmaceutically useful as gastric secretion inhibitors or as antihistamine antiallergics. Effective daily dosages for these compounds may be varied as necessary. Daily dosage may range, e.g., from about 100 mg. to about 3000 zag. Dosage forms suitable for the administration made, e.g., oral, insufflation, parenteral are used. Compounds of Formula I where R is NH2 CH2 CH2 CH2 are useful as antitumor agents. Mode of administration of these compounds may be oral or parenteral. Effective daily dosage may be varied and may range from about 100mg. to about 5000mg. Suitable dosage forms prepared using conventional procedures and compounding ingredients i.e., diluents, carriers etc., are used. The present compounds may be prepared by appropriate reduction of cr ethynyl intermediates of the formula EMI6.1 This reduction process is described in theTetrahedron Letters references identified above. Another process for preparing compounds of Formula I is by the reaction illustrated by the following equations Reaction Squence AEMI7.1 Where R is a hydroxyphenyl group, this group should be protected, e.g., as phenyl CH2 In this instance, this protective group in compound b is removed before hydrolysis as illustrated by the following equation EMI8.1 The following examples illustrate preparation of representative compounds of Formula I using reaction sequence A . All temperatures are in degrees Celsius. EXWLE I N benzylidine 2 aminocrotonic acid methyl ester To a well stirred slurry of 16.6 g of DL B chloro a amino butyric acid methyl ester hydrochloride in 160 ml of methylene chloride was added at 5 C, 9.0 mlof benzaldehyde, 7.5 g of anhydrous magnesium sulfate and 12.3 ml of triethylamine. After 20 hours the reaction mixture was diluted with 200 ml of water and the layers were separated, After three extractions of the aqueous layer with 100 ml of methylene chloride, the combined organic portions were washed with brine and dried with 5 g of anhydrous magnesium sulfate, giving after evaporation of solvent 20.8 g of crude DL N benzylidine chloro alpha amino crotonic acid methyl ester. This was dissolved in 160 ml of methylene chloride, and 13.0 ml of 1,5 diazabicyclo t5.4.01 undec 5 ene was added with stirring to the cooled 5eC solution. After 90 minutes the reaction mixture was washed with 100 ml of water, then dried with 10 g of anhydrous sodium sulfate.The residue after evaporation of solvent was filtered through neutral alumina 70 g in 10 1 hexane ether, providing 14.5 g of pure N benzylidine 2 aminocrotonic acid methyl ester as a 60 40 mixture of E Z isomers. NMR CDC13 showed E isomer 2.00 3H,d,J 7 , 3.77 3H,s , S.88 lH,q,J 7 , 8.18 1H,s , 7.1 7.8 5H,m Z isomer 1.83 3E,d,J 7 , 3.i3 3H,s , 6.50 1H,q,J 7 ,8.40 1H,s , 7.1 7.8 5H,m . TLC showed overlapping spots, Rf f 0.3 silica gel, 5 1 hexane ether . IR cHC13 showed 1720, 1660, 1575 cm 1. Mass Spectrum, Calcd. for C12H13NO2, 203.0946 Found 203.0946. B Benzyloxy Q vinyltyrosine methyl ester A solution of lithium hexamethyldisilazide was prepared by adding 5.5 mmol of butyllithium 2.2 M solution in hexane to a cooled 70iC solution of 1.15 ml of hexa methyldisilazane in 12.5 ml of tetrahydrofuran.To this solution was added first 3.5 ml of hexamethylphosphoramide and then a solution of 1.15 g of N benzylidine 2 aminocrotonic acid methyl ester in 12.5 ml of tetrahydrofuran.After 45 minutes, a solution of 1.385 g of p benzyloxybenzyl bromide in 7.5 ml of tetrshydrofuran was added. Stirring was continued for one hour at 70c and then for two hours at room temperature. The reaction mixture was diluted with saturated ammonium chloride solution and extracted three times with 50 ml of ether. The combined organic portions were washed twice with water and once with brine and dried with anhydrous magnesium sulfate.The residue upon removal of solvent was dissolved in 5 ml of methylene chloride and placed onto a column of acid washed silica gel 25 g of silica gel 60, E. Merck cat. no. 7736, previously washed with 6N hydrochloric acid, water to beutrality, saturated disodium EDTA solution, water, and then 0.3 N bydrochloric acid and dried in air for 72 hours, was slurry packed in hexane . Elution was carried out under a positive pressure of nitrogen with hexane 100 ml , ether 100 ml ,, 10 1 ether acetonitrile 150 ml , and 100 10 2 ether acetonitrile triethylamine. The last solvent mixture brought about elution of 1.206 g of benzyloxy a vinyltyrosine methyl ester.NMR CDC13 showed 1.57 2H, broad s , 3.13 2H,AB, JAB 14, AB 30 , 3.62 3H,s , 4.92 2H,s , 5.07 lH,d of d, J 10,1 , 5.22 1H, d of d, J 17,1 , 6.08 1H, d of d, J 17,10 , 7.20 4H,AB,J 9,AB 14 , 7.3 7.5 5H,m . IR CMC13 3400, 1730 cm EXAMPLE 2 Following the procedure of Example 1B , 1.385 g of m benzyloxybenzyl bromide was used in place of the p benzyloxybenzyl bromide, to prepare 1.020 g of benzyloxy a vinylm tyrosine methyl ester. m e Calcd for C19E21NO3 311.1520Found 311.1519. EXAMPLE 3 Following the procedure of Example 1B , 0.850 g of 2 iodopropane was uged in place of the g benzyloxybenzyl bromide, to prepare 0.620 g of alpha vinylttline methyl ester. m e 157 EXAMPLE 4 Following the procedure of Example 1B , 0.665 g of allyl bromide was used in place of the p benzyloxybenzyl bromide, to prepare 0.591 g of a a11y1 a vinylglycine methyl ester. m e 155 EXAMPLE 5 Following the procedure of Example 1B , 0.765 g of methyl bromoacetate was used in place of the benzyloxybenzyl bromide, to prepare 0.679 g of rr vinylaspartic acid dimethyl ester. m e 187 EXAMPLE 6 Following the procedure of Example 1b , 1.127 g of 3,4 diphenylmetbylenedioxybenzyl bromide was used in place of the p benzyloxybenzyl bromide, to prepare 0.990 g of 3,4 diphenylmethylenedioxybenzyl a vinyl glycine methyl ester m e Calcd for C25H23N04 401.1626Found 401.1629. EXAMPLE 7 Following the procedure of Example 1B , 1.470 g of N tosylacetoxymethylimidazole was used in place of the p benzyloxybenzyl bromide, to prepare 1.301 g of a N tosylimidazoyl methyl a vinylglycine methyl ester. nJe 351. EXAMPLE 8 Following the procedure of Example 1B , o methoxybenzyl bromide is used in place of the benzyloxybenzyl bromide, to prepare methoxy a vinyl o tyrosine methyl ester. EXAMPLE 9 Following the procedure of Example 1B , 2,5 dimethoxybenzyl bromide is used in place of the p benzyloxybenzyl bromide to prepare 2,5 dimethoxybenzyl a vinylglycine methyl ester. EXAMPLE 10 Following the procedure of Example 1B , N benzylidine 3 amino l bromopropane is used in place of the benzyloxybenzyl bromide to prepare a vinylornithine methyl ester. EXAMPLE IQa Following the procedure of Example 1B, gramine methiodide is used in place of the p benzyloxybenzyl bromide to prepare c vinyl tryptophan methyl ester. EXAMPLE 11 a Vinyltyrosine hydrochloride A mixture consisting of 0.554 g of benzyloxy a vinyltyrosine methyl ester and 40 ml of 6N aqueous hydrochloric acid was heated at reflux with rapid stirring for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled, extracted three times with 5 ml of methylene chloride and treated with activated charcoal. Filtration and evaporation of solvent gave 0.355 g of a vinyltyrosine hydrochloride as an amorphous solid. NMR D2O showed 3.35 2H,AB, JAB 15 XAB22 , 5.5S lH,d, J 18 , 5.70 lH,d,J 12 , 6.43 1H, d of d, J 18,12 , 7.27 2H,AB, JAB 9, AAB 22 . m e 207 P 36 . CAB EXAMPLE 12 Using 0.885 g of benzyloxy a vinyl mtyrosine methyl ester in place of the benzyloxya vinyltyrosine methyl ester in the Example 11 procedure, .552 g of alpha vinyl m tyrosine hydrochloride, Im e 207 P 36 , were obtained. EXAMPLE 13 Using 0.253 g of a vinylvaline methyl ester in place of the benzyloxy a vinyltyrosine methyl ester in the Example 11 procedure, 0.191 g of a vinylvaline hydrochloride were obtained NMR D2O 0.95 and 0.97 3H,d,J 7 , 2.35 lH,septet,J 7 , 5.27 lH,d J 18 , 5.45 lU,d,J ll , 6.12 lH,d of d, J 18,11 . EXAMPLE 14 Using 0.580 g of a allyl X vinyl glycine methyl ester in place of the benzyloxy Q vinyltyrosine methyl ester in the Example 11 procedure, 0.626 g of a allyl a vinylglycine hydrochloride m e 142 P 35 were obtained. EXAMPLE 15 Usinq 0.565 g of a vinylaspartic acid dimethyl ester in place of the benzyloxy avinyltyrosine methyl ester in the Example 11 procedure, 0.571 g of ci vinylaspartic acid hydrochloride were obtained. NMR D20 3.00 2H,A3, J AB 18, AB22 , 5.20 lH,d, J l9 , 5.28 1H,d, J 10 , 5.78 lH,d of d,J19,10 . EXAMPLE 16 Using 0.250 g of 3,4 diphenylmethylene dioxybenzyl a vinylglycine methyl ester in place of the benzyloxy a vinyltyrosine methyl ester in the Example 11 procedure, 0.150 g of a vinyl DOPA hydrochloride were obtained. m e 223 P 36 EXAMPLE 17 A mixture of 1.301 g of c N tosy limidazoylmethyl alpha vinylglycine methyl ester and 15 ml of concentrated hydrochloric acid was heated at reflux for 5 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled, extracted three times with 5 ml of methylene chloride, and treated with activated charcoal. Filtration and evaporation of solvent, and then purification by ion exchange chromstography 1 gave 0.695 g of a vinylhistidine dihydrochloride as an amorphous solid.NMR D2O showed 3.42 2H,s , 5.32 lH,d, J 16 , 5.48 lH, d, J l0 , 6.05 1H, d of d, J 16,10 , 7.28 1H, d, J 1 , 8.52 lR,d, J l . TLC showed a single spot, Rfr0.3 silica gel, 50 8 20 butanol acetic acid water . on or Dowex 50W X4 ction exchange tesin EXAMPLE 18 Using the Example 17 procedure, methoxy avinyl o tyrosine methyl ester is treated to give o methoxy a vinylphenylalanine.H l. EXAMPLE 19 Using the Example 17 procedure, 2,5 di methoxybenzyl a vinylglycine methyl ester is treated to give 2,5 dimethoxy Q vinylphenylalanine hydrochloride.EXAMPLE 20 Using the procedure of Example lB, alkylation was carried out with N benzylidine 3 amino 1 bromo propane. After workup with aqueous ammonium chloride as described, the crude product was mixed with 100 ml.of 6N hydrochloric acid and the well stirred mixture was heated at 1100C. for 2 hours. The solution was cooled, extracted four times with 10 ml. of methylene chloride, and treated with activated charcoal. The solution was filtered and evaporated, and the residue purified on DOWEX 50W X4 cation exchange resin, eluted first with water and then with 2N hydrochloric acid, giving 0.560 g. of Q vinylornithine dihydrochloride as a white foam. NMR D2O showed 1.4 2.2 4H,m , 2.8 3.1 2H,m , 5.15 lH,d,J 18 , 5.25 lH,d,J lO , 5.87 lH,d of d,J 18,10 . EXAMPLE 21 a Vinyltryptophan Treatment of a vinyltryptophan methyl ester in 1.1 methanol water with two equivalents of sodium hydroxide, neutralization of the reaction mixture with 1N aqueous hydrochloric acid, and purification of the crude,amino acid on DOWEX 50W X4 cation exchange resin elution with water and then 2N aqueous hydrochloric acid gives a vinyltryptophan hydrochloride. EXAMPLE 22 The procedure described in Example 2 is carried out except that 5 methoxymethylgramine methiodide 5 mmol is used in place of t benzyloxy benzyl bromide and that the crude product is not submitted to the silica gel treatment but is instead dissolved in 1 1 methanolrwater 50 ml. and treated with two equivalents of potassium hydroxide. After five hours, the reaction mixture is acidified to pH 3 by addition of 1N hydrochloric acid and the resulting solution is refluxed for 5 minutes. The reaction mixture is cooled, just neutralized with aqueous potassium bicarbonate, and concentrated to dryness under vacuum. Purification of the crude amino acid on DOWEX 50W X4 cation exchange resin elution with water and then 2N aqueous hydrochloric acid gives 5 hydroxy a vinyl tryptophan hydrochloride. The products obtained in the examples are racemates. These racemates may be resolved using conventional techniques, e.g., by treating the racemate with a suitable optically active acid in a suitable solvent and recovering the individual amino acid isomer from the resultant salt. Claims to the invention follow