# Foundry moulds and cores.

## Abstract
Foundry moulds or cores are made by a method comprising mixing a granular refractory material with a potassium alkali phenol formaldehyde resin binder solution, forming the mixture and curing the formed mixture by gassing with a 1 3C alkyl formate. Cure by gassing with a formate, particularly methyl formate, enables rapid and efficient production of foundry moulds or cores. The formates used have relatively low toxicity.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method of making a foundry mould or core which method comprises mixing a granular refractory material with from 0.5 to 8 of a binder which comprises i an aqueous solution, having a solids content of from 50 to 75 by weight of a potassium alkali phenol formaldehyde resin having the following characteristics a a weight average molecular weight Mw of from 600 to 1500 b a formaldehyde phenol molar ratio of from 1.2 1 to 2.6 1 and c a KOH phenol molar ratio of from 0.2 1 to 1.2 1 and ii at least one silane in an amount of from 0.05 to 3 by weight on the weight of the resin solution, forming the mixture in a vented core or mould box and gassing the formed mixture with at least one C1 to C3 alkyl formate to cure the binder. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein the refractory material is silica sand, quartz, chromite sand, zircon, olivine sand, beach sands containing shell fragments or mixtures thereof. 3. A method according to either claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the Mw of the resin is from 700 to 1100. 4. A method according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the resin used has a molar ratio of KOH phenol in the range of from 0.4 1 to 0.6 1. 5. A method according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the resin used has a molar ratio of formaldehyde phenol in the range of from 1.5 1 to 2.2 1. 6. A method according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the granular refractory material is mixed with from 1 to 3 of the binder. 7. A method according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the mixture is gassed with the C1 to C3 alkyl formate in an amount of from 5 to 60 by weight based on the weight of the resin solution. 8. A method according to claim 7, wherein the mixture is gassed with the C1 to C3 alkyl formate in an amount of from 15 to 355 by weight based on the weight of the resin solution. 9. A method according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the C1 to C3 alkyl formate is dispersed in a carrier gas. 10. A method according to claim 9, wherein the concentration of the C1 to C3 alkyl formate in the carrier gas is from 0.5 to 5 by volume. 11. A method according to any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein the C1 to C3 alkyl formate is methyl formate.

## Description
FOUNDRY MOULDS AND CORES This invention relates to the manufacture of foundry moulds and cores which do not evolve pungent acid gases on thermal decomposition. More particularly it refers to a method of making moulds and cores of this type rapidly at ambient temperature. Phenol formaldehyde and phenol formaldehyde furfuryl alcohol condensation products catalysed with strong acids such as sulphuric acid, paratoluene sulphonic acid, are well known as binders for sand in the production of foundry moulds and cores. However, they have the disadvantage that pungent fumes of sulphur dioxide are evolved on thermal decomposition. The use of alkaline phenolic resins catalysed with esters has been suggested in Japanese Patent PublicationNo. 130627 19i5 and is the subject of our co pendingU.K. Application No. 8031536 Specification 2059972 and European Patent Application 83300299.1 . The use of such binder systems enables the manufacture of foundry moulds and cores which do not evolve pungent acid gases on mixing or during casting.Further, by suitable selection of resins and ester catalysts rapid hardening at ambient temperature can be achieved.However, to obtain such results on a large scale it is necessary to use specialized rapid mixing equipment such as that described in British Patent Specifications 1,257,181 and 1,369,445 of Baker Perkins. The present invention is based on the discovery that the use of esters as catalysts for alkaline phenolic resins in the manufacture of foundry moulds and cores can be adapted to a gassing system which is capable of rapid cure at ambient temperature. The use of gassing to promote curing of binders for foundry moulds and cores is known. The major systems which are or have been industrially used are as follows a The Carbon Dioxide Process in which CO2 is passed through a mixture of sand and sodium silicate.However, the resultant cores or moulds are very sensitive to water and lose strength damp back on storage, will not accept aqueous washes and show very poor breakdown on casting. It is necessary to add breakdown agents such as sucrose to promote better breakdown. Over gasstng produces very poor strengths. b The Sulphur Dioxide Process disclosed bySAPIC in GB. 1,411,975 which uses 1 a peroxide which is dangerous to store and dispense, particularly in a foundry environment, and 2 pungent S02 gas which has a lowThreshold Limit Value TLV and is unpleasant to handle. c The Isocure process disclosed by Ashland inGB. 1,190,644 which uses a benzilic ether phenolic polyol and methylene diphenyl diisocyanate. The reaction between the polyol and diisocyanate is accellerated by gassing with triethylamine or dimethyl ethylamine. The diisocyanates have very low TLV s and react with water preferentially over the polyol so that it is necessary to use dry sand and dry air to convey the sand binder mix into core box or mould. The amines have relatively lowTLV s and their toxicology is not well understood. Cured cores tend to absorb water and lose some strength on storage.Certain casting defects are observed with Isocure cores moulds, e.g. tpinholing caused by the nitrogen content of the binder which reduces to ammonia in the casting environment dissolves in the molten metal and is evolved as small blow holes on cooling graphitic defect which is a deposit of graphite carbon which collects in flakes on the surface of the casting and finning or veining caused by the mould or core cracking under the expansion stresses during casting and molten metal running into the cracks. The present invention enables the rapid and efficient production of foundry moulds and cores without the disadvantages of the prior art as described above. Accordingly, the present invention provides a method of making a foundry mould or core which method comprises mixing a granular refractory material with from 0.5 to 8 of a binder which comprises an aqueous solution, having a solids content of from 50 to 75 by weight, of a potassium alkali phenol formaldehyde resin having the following characteristics a a weight average molecular weight Mw of from 600 to 1500 b a formaldehyde phenol molar ratio of from 1.2 1 to 2.6 1 and c a KOH phenol molar ratio of from 0.2 1 to 1.2wit the binder including from 0.05 to 3 by weight on the weight of the resin solution of at least one silane, forming the mixture in a vented core or mould box and gassing the formed mixture with at least one C1 to C3 alkyl formate to cure the binder.The granular refractory materials used in the present invention may be any of.the refractory materials employed in the foundry industry for the production of moulds and cores such as silica sand, chromate sand, zircon or olivine sand. The compositions of the invention have the particular advantage that the difficulties commonly associated with the bonding of sands of alkaline reaction such as olivine and chromite or beach sands containing shell fragments and which arise from the neutralization or partial neutralization of the acid catalyst used, are completely overcome since in the invention the binder is cured under alkaline conditions. The invention is, therefore, of particular utility where it is necessary or desirable to employ alkaline sands. The nature of the phenol formaldehyde resin used is an important feature of the present invention. There are several features of the resin which are important.Since the present invention is directed to cold set techniques, the resin binder will be used as an aqueous solution of the resin. The solids content of the aqueous solution is in the range 50 to 75 by weight. Solids contents below 50 are not used because they contain too much waster which reduces the effectiveness of the binder.Solids contents above 75 , are not used because the viscosity becomes too high. The phenol formaldehyde resins used in this invention have a weight average molecular weight Mw of from 600 to 1500. Resins with M outside this range w give products which are relatively weak or build up strength more slowly. We have, to date, obtained best results using resins having M in the range 700 to 1100. w The resins used in this invention are potassium alkaline phenol formaldehyde resins by which is meant that the alkali in the resin is potassium alkali. This alkali will usually be present in the resin during manufacture but can be added to the resin subsequently as KOH, preferably in aqueous solution of suitable strength. The alkalinity of the resin is expressed in terms of its KOH content and specifically by the molar ratio of KOH to the phenol in the resin. Other alkalis are not expressly excluded and may be present in minor amounts but will not be specifically added because they give products having lower strength. The molar ratio of KOH phenol in the resin solution is in the range 0.2 1 to 1.2 1 preferably 0.3 1 to 1 1. Outside this range the products have relatively poor strength and, above the top range limit, the resin is hazardously alkaline. We have obtained best results using resin solutions having a KOH phenol molar ratio in the range of from 0.4 1 to 0.6 1 and The resins used have a formaldehyde to phenol molar ratio of from 1.2 1 to 2.6 1,preferably 1.5 1 to 2.2 1. Lower ratios are not used because the resins are relatively unm active. Higher ratios are not used because the resins produced contain undesirably high levels of unreacted formaldehyde and give products having lower strength. It is a subsidiary aspect of this invention that the resin used satisfies the following criteria a Mw from 700 to 1100 b IlOH phenol molar ratio of from 0.4 1 to 0.6 1 and c formaldehyde phenol molar ratio 1.5 1 to 2.2 1 A A silane is included in the binder to improve strength. amounts as low as 0.05 by weight on the weight of resin solution provide a significant improvement in strength. Increasing the amount of silane gives greater improvements in strength up to about 0.6 by weight on the resin solution. Higher silane concentrations are not preferred because of added cost. Further, because the silane typically used is g aminopropyltriethoxy silane which contains nitrogen, use of excess silane may increase the risk of pinholing defects and for these reasons amounts in excess of 3 by weight on the resin solution are not used. The binder and particulate refractory material can be mixed and formed by conventional techniques. The vented core and mould boxes used can also be of conventional typeXas are used in prior art gassing systems.The binder is cured, according to the present invention, by gassing with a C1 to alkyl formate, very preferably methyl formate. The alkyl formate curing catalyst will not usually be used as a pure gas but as a vapour or aerosol in an inert carrier gas. By inert carrier gas we mean a gas which does not react with the formate catalyst or have an adverse effect on the curing reaction or the properties of the product. Suitable examples include air, nitrogen or carbon dioxide. The gassing catalyst is a C1 to C3 alkyl formate preferably dispersed in a carrier gas as vapour or an aerosol. Other esters e.g. formate esters of higher alcohols such as butyl formate, and esters of C1 to C3 alcohols with higher carboxylic acids such as methyl and ethyl acetates, are not effective as gassing catalysts.Methyl formate is significantly more active as a catalyst than ethyl formate which is better than the propyl formatesThe reasons for the catalytic activity of the C1 to C3 alkyl formates and, wthin this group, the marked superiority of methyl formate, are not. clear. The relative volatility of these compounds enables their use as gassing catalysts. This is especially true of methyl formate which is a volatile liquid having a boiling point at atmospheric pressure of 31.50C. At ambient temperatures below 31.50C , typically 15 to 250C, it is sufficiently volatile that passing carrier gas through liquid methyl formate maintained at ambient temperature gives a concentration of methyl formate vapour in the carrier gas sufficient to act as catalyst to cure the binder.Ethyl and the propyl formates are less volatile than the methyl ester, having boiling points in the range 54 to 82 C at atmospheric pressure. In order to entrain sufficient of these esters in the gas phase to enable effective catalysis, we have found it appropriate to heat the esters to near their boiling point and use a stream of carrier gas preheated to e.g.100 C. An alternative to true vaporisation is to form an aerosol in the carrier gas. Methyl formate is so volatile as to make this impractical. Using ethyl and propyl formates it is desirable to pre heat them to enhance even distribution in the core or mould during gassing. As is indicated above, methyl formate is the most active catalyst and, by virtue of its volatility, is the easiest to use. Accordingly, the use of methyl formate in a stream of inert carrier gas as the gassing catalyst forms a particular aspect of this invention. A further practical advantage of these formate esters, especially methyl formate is their relative low toxicity and the fact thattheir toxicity is wej.l understood. The concentration of the formate catalyst in the carrier gas is preferably at least 0.2 by volume and typically from 0.5 to 5 by volume. The total amount of catalyst used will depend upon the particular conditions employed but will typically be from 5 to 60 ,preferably from 15 to 35 , by weight on the weight of the resin solution. The time required for adequate gassing depends on the size and complexity of the core or mould and on the particular resin used. It can be as short as 0.1 secs but more usually is in the range 1 sec to 1 min. Longer times e.g. up to 5 mins can be used if desired or for large moulds or cores. After gassingXthe core or mould is stripped from the box. Sufficient time must elapse to permit the strength of the mould or core to build up to enable stripping without damage.Production speed can be enhanced by purging the mould or core box with a suitable inert gas such as air which removes residual catalyst vapour and water and other by products of the curing reaction. The amount of resin solution used as binder is from 0.5 to 8 , preferably 1 to 3 , by weight on the weight of the refractory particulate material. Use of lower amounts of binder gives cores of poor strength.Higher amounts of binder give no significant advantage and give generally poorer breakdown on casting and increase the difficulty of sand recovery. The following Examples illustrate the invention. The techniques used in the Examples are described below Manufacture of phenol formaldehyde resin solutions 100 phenol was dissolved in 50 aqueous KOK in an amount corresponding to the desired KOH phenol molar ratio from 0.2 to 1.2 . The solution was heated to reflux and 50 aqueous formaldehyde was added slowly, whilst maintaining reflux, in an amount corresponding to the desired formaldehyde phenol molar ratio 1.6, 1.8 or 2.0 . The reaction mixture was maintained under reflux until it attained a pre determined viscosity corresponding to the desired value of M . If desired the solids w content can be adjusted by distillation, but this is not usually necessary.This is a further advantage of the inventionIn some cases minor amounts of KOH solution were added to adjust the KOS phenol ratio, but this would not be necessary in full scale production. The resin solution was cooled to 400C and 0.4 by weight on the weight of the resin solution of y aminopropyl triethoxy silane was added. Testing of resins a viscosity measured using an Ostwald U tube viscometer at 250C. b soi.ds content measured by heating a weighed sample 2.0 0.1 g in an air circulating oven for 3 hr at 100 C. C Molecular weight M measured using gel permeation chromatography. Samples were prepared by precipitating resin from the resin solution by adding H2S04 separating, washing and drying the precipitate and dissolving it in tetrahydrofuran. Preparation of Foundry Sand Core Mix 1 kg of the selected sand was charged into a Fordath laboratory core mixer and mixed for 2 mins, with 20 g phenol formaldehyde resin prepared as described above. The mix was discharged into a tin and sealed immediately to prevent evaporation of water.Preparation of test foundry cores 5 x 5 cm cylinder compression test pieces were prepared by the standard procedure recommended by I.B.F. working party P but using a perforated bottom plate to the cylinder with a recess which could be connected to a source of negative pressure. The top of the cylinder was sealed with another perforated plate connected to a bubbler containing liquid methyl formate at ambient temperature. When vacuum was applied to the bottom plate air was bubbled through the methyl formate and the ester vapour conveyed in the air stream through the sand resin mix in the cylinder core box. Compression strenght was determined on the resultant cores after storing at 20 C, 50 relative humidity for 1 min, 5 mins, 1 hr. 2 hrs. 3 hrs. and 24 hrs.Initial tests indicated that 30 secs. was sufficient time to produce the optimum strength and this was used as a standard in the Examples below. Example 1 Test cores were made using solutions of resins having the following properties formaldehyde phenol molar ratio 2.0 KOH phenol molar ratio from 0.4 to 0.8 960 or 1000 w Solids content 63.5 0.4 by weight on the resin solution of y aminopropyltriethoxy silane was added. The sand used was Chelford 50 and the amount of resin was 2 by weight resin solution on the sand. The results are set out in Tables 1 and 2. Table I gives the results for resins with M w 960 and Table 2 for resins with N 1000. w The data in the table show that cores of adequate strength can be made but that the strength falls of somewhat at KOH phenol ratios greater than 0.6. Table 1EMI11.1 tb SEP Test SEP No SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 5 tb KOH Phenol SEP 0.4 SEP 0.5 SEP 0.6 SEP 0.7 SEP 0.8 tb Viscosity cP SEP SEP sob SEP SEP 390 SEP 313 SEP 250 SEP SEP SEP tb SEP Compression tb SEP Strength SEP MPa tb SEP 1 SEP min SEP 1.2 SEP 2.2 SEP 2.6 SEP 2.6 SEP 2.9 tb SEP 5 SEP min SEP 1.9 SEP 3.6 SEP 3.1 SEP 3.0 SEP 3.0 tb SEP 1 SEP hr SEP 2.2 SEP 3.4 SEP 3.5 SEP 3.2 SEP 3.0 tb SEP 3 SEP hr SEP 2.1 SEP 3.9 SEP 4.0 SEP 3.5 SEP 3.1 tb SEP 24 SEP hr SEP 3.0 SEP 4.3 SEP 4.8 SEP 3.2 SEP 2.2 tb Table 2EMI12.1 tb Test SEP No SEP 6 SEP 7 SEP 8 SEP 9 tb KOH Phenol SEP 0.4 SEP 0.5 SEP 0.6 SEP 0.7 tb Viscosity tb SEP cP SEP 688 SEP 500 SEP 375 SEP tb Compression tb Streght SEP MPa tb SEP 1 SEP min SEP 1.7 SEP 2.4 SEP 2.9 SEP 2.9 tb SEP 5 SEP min SEP 2.4 SEP 3.2 SEP 3.2 SEP 3.3 tb SEP 1 SEP hr SEP 2.4 SEP 3.4 SEP 3.7 SEP 3.6 tb SEP 3 SEP hr SEP 3.2 SEP 4.1 SEP 3.2 SEP 3.4 tb SEP 24 SEP hr SEP 4.4 SEP 4.8 SEP 3.9 SEP 2.9 tb Example 2.Test cores were made using solutions of resins having the following properties formaldehyde phenol molar ratio 2.0KOH phenol molar ratio 0.65 M from 718 to 1050 w Solids content 66 0.4 by weight t aminopropyltriethoxy silane was added to the resin solution. The sand used was Chelford 50 and the amount of resin solution used was 2 by weight on the sand. The experiment was repeated using similar solutions to which 50 KCH solution was added to increase the KOH phenol ratio to 0.85. The solids contents of these resin solutions were 64 . The results an set out in Table 3.The data for the resins with KOH phenol 0.65 is in the a columns and for resins with KOH phenol 0.85 in the b columns. As in Example 1 the use of higher KOH phenol ratios gives inferior results especially at the higher values of N w Table 3EMI13.1 tb SEP Test SEP No SEP 10 SEP 11 SEP 12 SEP 13 tb SEP Mw SEP 718 SEP 849 SEP 966 SEP 1050 tb SEP a SEP b SEP a SEP b SEP a SEP b SEP a SEP b tb KOH phenol SEP 0.65 SEP 0.85 SEP 0.65 SEP 0.85 SEP 0.65 SEP 0.85 SEP 0.65 SEP 0.85 tb Solids SEP SEP 66 SEP 64 SEP 66 SEP 64 SEP 66 SEP 64 SEP 66 SEP 64 tb Viscosity SEP cP SEP 107 SEP 81 SEP 220 SEP 111 SEP 320 SEP 144 SEP 405 SEP 167 tb Compression tb Str. MPa tb SEP 1 SEP min SEP 2.7 SEP 2.3 SEP 2.9 SEP 2.2 SEP 2.6 SEP 2.0 SEP 1.9 SEP 2.0 tb SEP 5 SEP min SEP 3.4 SEP 2.7 SEP 3.3 SEP 2.6 SEP 3.0 SEP 1.1 SEP 2.2 SEP 2.0 tb SEP 1 SEP hr SEP 3.0 SEP 2.7 SEP 3.5 SEP 2.7 SEP 2.7 SEP 2.2 SEP 2.2 SEP 2.0 tb SEP 3 SEP hr SEP 3.6 SEP 3.2 SEP 3.5 SEP 2.6 SEP 2.9 SEP 1.7 SEP 1.9 SEP 2.0 tb SEP 24 SEP hr SEP 4.5 SEP 2.9 SEP 3.5 SEP 1.1 SEP 1.8 SEP 0.8 SEP 1.2 SEP 0.9 tb Example 3 Resins with varying properties were used to make test cores as described above. The sand used was Chelford 50, the amount of resin solution was 2 by weight on the sand and all the resin soltuions contained 0.4 by weight y aminopropyltriethoxy silane. The results are set out inTable 4. Table 4EMI14.1 tb Test SEP No SEP 14 SEP 15 SEP 16 SEP 17 SEP 18 SEP 19 SEP 20 SEP 21 tb Mw SEP 850 SEP 850 SEP 850 SEP 1000 SEP 1000 SEP 1000 SEP 1000 SEP 1000 tb KOH Phenol SEP 0.72 SEP 0.72 SEP 0.45 SEP 0.34 SEP 0.5 SEP 0.6 SEP 0.85 SEP 1.02 SEP tb formaldehyde tb phenol SEP 1.6 SEP 1.6 SEP 1.6 SEP 2.0 SEP 2.0 SEP 2.0 SEP 2.0 SEP 2.0 tb Solids SEP SEP 60.2 SEP 66.2 SEP i65.4 SEP 64.0 SEP 64.0 SEP 64.0 SEP 64.0 SEP 64.0 SEP tb Viscosity tb SEP cP SEP 277 SEP 414 SEP 600 SEP SEP SEP SEP 150 SEP tb Compression tb Strength tb SEP MPa tb SEP 1 SEP min SEP 2.4 SEP 2.3 SEP 1.8 SEP 0.9 SEP 2.7 SEP 2.5 SEP 2.3 SEP 1.6 tb SEP 5 SEP min SEP 2.5 SEP 2.4 SEP 2.5 SEP 2.7 SEP 2.8 SEP 2.7 SEP 2.4 SEP 1.8 tb SEP 1 SEP hr SEP 2.5 SEP 2.7 SEP 2.0 SEP 2.3 SEP 2.8 SEP 2.8 SEP 2.4 SEP 2.0 tb SEP 3 SEP hr SEP 2.5 SEP 3.2 SEP 2.1 SEP 2.2 SEP 3.9 SEP 3.2 SEP 2.3 SEP tb SEP 24 SEP hr SEP 1.2 SEP 3.0 SEP 3.5 SEP SEP 3.1 SEP 4.5 SEP 2.2 SEP 1.8 SEP 1.9 SEP tb