# Device for operating the thermostat and indicating the temperature in electric and steam irons.

## Abstract
The electric and steam iron according to this invention is provided with a knob for operating the thermostat, which extends substantially vertically between the iron body and the handle handgrip, partially or fully inserted in the handle and operatively connected to the thermostat directly or through gearing means. The knob is preferably made of a transparent material and is provided with at least a temperature indicating element visible substantially from the outer surfaces of the handle. This temperature indicating element is lightened directly through the knob, or indirectly by a lamp acting as a warning lamp indicating that the iron is operative and located either in the inside of the knob or in the handle handgrip at the indicating element. In the former case this indicating element is located directly above the handle or on its one side wall, whereas in the latter case it is located on a slider in the handgrip and moved by the knob, said slider supporting the lamp so that this lamp will lighten and make well visible from the top the temperature indicating element.

## Claims
C L A I M S 1. Device for operating the thermostat and indicating tlle temperature in electric or steam irons, charicteri zed in that it comprises a transparent knob operatively connected to the thermostat and having at least an indicating element visible sibstariti ally From oiter surfaces of the halelle, said knob extendinrr substantially vertically from the tipper stirt of the iron plate rip to the handgrip, said knob being fully or partially inserted in the rear portion of the handle con nected to the iron body, said indicating element being lightened by means of a lamp located therebehind so that it will be visible from the outside by trasparency or through other means kiiown per se. 2. Device as claimed in claim 1, characterized lit that said at least indicating means is located at the top of said knob and is lightened by the wanting lamp located lit a through hole of the knob, there being provided an opening in the upper surface of said handgrip located In a position in register d said through hole of the knob in order to permit the reading of the temperature which is set or to be set. 3. device as claimed in claim 1, characterized iii that said indicating element is located on a slider operatively connected to said knob and slid able within side guides provir. in the upper portion of said handgrip and intended to transfer the temperature reading to the front portion of said hand grin said lamp being secured to said slider ill order to move therei along said handgrip and to lighten reference indexes of. the temperature 4. Device as claimed iri claim 1, characterized ill that said iitdicating elerneilt s are located on t 1lc side wale of said knob and call be viewed from the outside through a slit provided ori the rear portion of the handle or else oll at least one of its side wales. 5. Device as claimed in anyone of the precediri claims, characterized in that said transparent knob is made of a transparent or translllcid plastic material 6. evioe as claimed in claim 1 to 4, characterized in that said knob is provided with a transparent section located at the position of the lamp. 7. Device as claimed in anyone of the precedillfr claims, characterized in that the operative connection of said knob to the thermostat comprises a pinion fastened at the lower portion to the through hole of the knob and in direct mesh with another pinion keyed to the thermostat shaft or through a toothed belt. . Device as claimed in claim 3, characterized in that the operative connection of said knob to said thermostat comprises a pinion fastened to the upper portion of the knob and meshing in a rack provided in the slider. 9. Device as claimed in anyone of the preceding claims, characterized in that said knob rotates ahout a tiibrlar member intended to receive said lamp arid provided with a longitudinal slot for the passage of the lead in wires of the lamp. 10. Device as claimed in claim 9, characterized in that the tubular member acting as a pin for the rotation of the knob is secured to a supporting plate provided with a collar for securing said pinion keyed to the thermostat shaft.

## Description
DESCRIPTION This invention relates generally to electric and steam irons and, more particilarly,to all electric or steal iron improved as to the operating arrangement of the therm . stat and the indication of the controlled temperatures. The most electric and steam irons at present available make use of a knob as an operating element of tlie thermost.t connected to the heating resistor, which knob generally is located below the handgrip of the handle and is provided with reference indexes for setting and indicating tulle iron g desired temperatire. This arrangement of the thermostat operating element, while being the simplest one from the constructive standpoint, has however the drawback of providing the reference indexes of this operating element located in a position which is not directly well visible and accessible during the ironing operation. In order to l e able to watch the set ironing temperature it is therefore necessary to hand le the iron, possibly by lifting and or inclining it, and to employ both the tiaiids to operate the thermostat operating element. Since tlie nowaday trend is to rationalize aL0y operation to be carried out on apparatus generally, it is apparent that such an arrangement of the thermostat operating element and the temperatire reference indexes does not lend itself to give a direct observation thereof, even in the more favollrable conditions. It is therefore the main object of the present invention or to provide an electric steam iron having a thermostat operating and temperature indicating element which permits the above mentioned drawbacks to he obviated and which allows therefor a direct visibility of the thermostat setting also during th ironing operation. It is another object of the present invention to prov an electric or steam iron of tlie above mentioned ki nd, why cm permits also tile temperature indicator to be lightened by resorting to the usual warning lamp equipping the iron 110 order to make the temperature reading still more apparellt. It is still another object of the present invention to provide an electric or steam iron which permits the temperature indicator to be observed eveil if the user hand or hand are gripping the handle to carry out the ironing operatioll. These and other objects of the invention, which will b more apparent from the following description, are attained by a means of a device for operating the thermostat and illdi cating the temperatllre in electric or steam irons, which is characterized in that it comprises a transparent knob operate vely connected to the thermostat and having at least an indicating element visible substantially from the outer surfaces of the handle, said knob extending substantially vertically from the upper surface of the iron plate up to the handgrip, said knob being fully or partially inserted in the rear portion of the handle connected to the iron body, said indicating element being lightened by means of a lamp located therebehind so that it will be visible from the outside by trasparency or through other means known per se. It is advantageous if the indicating means is located a the top of the knob and is lightened by the warning 1 amp Loc at, in a through hole of the knob, there being providetl all opening in the upper surface of the handgrip located in a positioio in register with the through hole of the knob in order to permit the reading of tile temperature wiiici is set or to be set. In this case the temperattlre reading occurs through a single transparent cover secured to the upper surface of the handgrip in a rear position corresponding to the through hole of the knob. Alternatively the indicating element is located on a slider operatively connected to the knob and slidable within side guides provided in the ripper portion of the handgrip and intended to transfer the temperature reading to the front portion of said handgrip, said lamp being secured to the slider in order to move therewith along the handgrip and to lighten reference indexes of the temperature. In this case the temperature reading occurs through a transparent cover secured to the upper surface of the handgrip in a front position thereof. Preferably the driving means of the knob are in the form of meshed gears, or rack and pinion drives or belt and pinion drives. Alternatively, the indicating element is located on the side wall of the knob and can be viewed from the outside through a slit provided on the rear portion of tlie handle or else on at least one of its side walls. In this case the temperature reading g occurs t1irough tfiis rear or side slit and the indicating element is lightened by the lamp located in the transparent knob. The invention will be now described in more detail in connection with the accompanying drawings showing several embodiments of the electric or steam iron according to the invention, given by way of example only arid therefore not intended in a limiting sense, and in which Fig. 1 shows the device according to a first embodiment of the invention in side elevation view, with the iron shown ill phantom Fig.2 shows the device of Fig. 1 in a longitudinal section view Fig. 3 is a top plan view of the device shown in Fig. g. 1 Fig. 4 is a top plan view of a second embodiment of tJ device according to the invention Fig. 5 is a sectional view of the device taken along the line V V of Fig.4 Fig. in a side elevation view of the iron provided with a third embodiment of the device, with portions broken away Fig.7 is a rear view of the iroio shown ill Fig. i, and Fig.8 is a partial side elevational view of tlie irons provided with a fourth embodiment of 1 he device according tc this invention, with portions broken away. Referring now to the drawings and particularly toFigs. 1 3, the thermostat operating and temperature indicating device is shown in connection with an electrical iron 1 havi a handle 2 secured thereto.The handle 2 Includes a iIandgrip 3 and a housing 4 containing an electrical socket 5 ansl secu to the iron by means of a plate รณ. The plate acts as a support for a knob 7 having a frustoconical shape, wjiich is parti ally enclosed in the housing 4 and provided with a th hole A. On its lower portion the knob 7 is provided with a t 9, secured thereto in such a manner that the hole of the pill 9 is in register RTI ID 4.46 with the through hole R, rile pinion 9 is s ro tably mounted on a supporting tubular number 10, fastened to plate 6 and having a longitudinal slot 11 extending from the top to the level of the zipper surface of the plate i. This slot serves to receive the lead in wires 2 2 of a lamp J enclosed in a transpare..t tube 14 intended to be inserted in the supporting tubular member 10.The plate i supports al so a pinion 15 fastened to a hollow hiih 1 6 by means of a sei screw 17. The hollow hub 1 is rotatably mounted in the plil.e 6 through a collar Is and is intended to receive arid secure the shaft of a thermostat 5 for tsettislXr the ironing t empera ture of the electric iron. The upper portion of the knob 7 has a hub portion 19, which is designed to be inserted on a hole 20 in the handgrip 3 so as to hold the knob in a substantially vertical position between the handgrip 3 and the plate 5 in turn fasteioed to the iron.All the knob 7 is made preferably of transparent materia and is held secured to the iron, partially enclosed in the housing 4 of the handle 2 and is substantially visible from the outside so as to act as a warning lamp indicating that the electric iron is operative, i.e. during the times iri which the heating resistor of the iron is supplied with electrical 21 power. Above the hub portion 19 an indexis secured, which is visible from the top through the hole 2 of the handgrip 3, opening in a recessed portion 22 containing the temperature indexes and covered by a transparent cover not shown . The operation of the above described device is very simple. By rotating the knob 7 the thermostat shaft 7 is rotated and therefore the ironing temperature can be set, which will be indicated by the index 21, visible from the top through the transparent cover.As the heating resistor is supplied with electrical power the lamp 13 is lightened, which will lighten the knob 7, thereby acting as a warnirlr Lamp for the electric iron and at the same time also the index 2 though the through hole S of the knob will be lightened, thereby making it still more visible from the top. Therefor the riser can observe the set temperature also during the ironing operation and, in order to change this setting, it will be sufficient to rotate the knob 7, which for this purpose has a rough ened lateral surface. Figs.5 and show a second embodiment of the iron, in which the ironing temperature set or to be set can be observed from the top on the front portion of the handgriSimilar portions are indicated in the several Figures with the same reference nrimerals.In this case to the hub portior 19 of the knob 7 a pinion 30 is keyed, which is intended 10 mesh in a rack 32 provided in a window of a slider 3 , sli dably mounted on the upper surface of the handgrip 3, for example, within side guides 33. The slider 31, at its right end in Fig.4, has an index 21 lightened by a lamp IS fastene to the slider. This index 21 can be brought into register wi indexes 36 presented by a plate housed in a window 34 of the handgrip 3 and covered by a transparent cover 35. Otherwise this device is the same as that of figs.1 3. By rotating g the knob 7, the thermostat shaft 1 is rotated in order to set tlie ironing temperature and at the same time the slider 31 is moved so as to shift the indicate 21 in register with one of the indexes 36 corresponding to desired temperature and which is well visible from the top d the ironing operation because it is lightened by the lamp 1 3 Fibs. 6 and 7 show a third embodiment of the clcvice according to the invention ill which the transparent frustoco knob 7 is located against the rear wall of the hotising 4, which is provided with a RTI ID 7.4 verticaL slit 42 throiih which the knob 7 bearing the indicating element s on its lateral surface, can be viewed. In this case the indicating elements are formed by vertical written words. Since the knob is lightened from the inside as above described, these indicating elements can be easily read from the outside. Furthermore a knurled roller 41 or the like is provided on the hub portion 19 of the knob, which is intended to rotate the knob 7, ill order to bring the desired indication in register with the slit 42. The knob rotation is transmitted from the pinion 9 to the pinion 15 driving the thermostat by means of a toottied belt 40. Conversely, in Fig.8 the slit 42 is located in a side wall of the housing 4 and the motion transmission occurs, for example, as illustrated in Fig.l. From the foregoing the advantages of the device accor ding to this invention can be easily understood. In fact, the user has always under his control the set ironing temperatltre and, by rotating the knob 7 acting at the same time as a warning lamp, he can readily change said temperature. The location of the temperature indicator on the top surface of the handgrip or on the rear and side walls of the handle housing is such that the user hand cannot interfere,4rith the temperature reading. It should be also understood that, while the invention has been illustrated and described in connection with four preferred embodiments oily, various changes and mocl 1 icatioiis can be made thereto by a person skilled in the art without departiii from the scope of the inverrtioii. In particular, the knob 7 instead of being formed fully in a transparent material, could have a transparent region only at the location of the lamp 13. Also the employed materials are riot limitative to the invention, since all the materials suitable for this purpose can be used.