# Zeolite containing detergent compositions and process for preparing same.

## Abstract
Spray dried detergent compo9itions prepared by spray drying aqueous slurries comprising high concentrations of alkali metal silicates in combination with aluminosilicate particles which have been coated with from 100 ppm to 2000 ppm of a cationic surfactant contain fewer large aggregates which can deposit on washed fabrics as floc than is the case when the aluminosilicate is not so coated. The improvement is believed to result from an inhibition of the bridging of aluminosilicate particles by silicic acid.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A spray dried detergent composition prepared by spray drying a detergent composition comprising a 0 to 30Z by weight of one or more organic surfactants b 10 to 90Z by weight of a builder system consisting of 1 1 to 90 parts by weight of an aluminosilicate having as a coating on the particles thereof, at least 50 ppm by weight of a cationic surfactant, said aluminosilicate being i a crystalline aluminosilicate zeolite having the general formula N A102 X SiO2 yJz H20 wherein.x and y are integers, the molar ratio of x to y being in the range of 0.1 to 1.1, and z is an integer from about 8 to 264 or . it an amorphous hydrated alumino silicate having the empirical formula M zA102 ySiO2 wherein M is sodium, potassium, ammonium or substituted ammonium, z is from about 0.5 to 2, y is 1, said material having a magnesium ion exchange capacity of at least about 50 milligrams of CaCO3 hardness per gram of anhydrous aluminosilicate or iii mixtures of i and ii and 2 4 to 35 parts by weight of a water soluble alkali metal silicate having a molar composition equivalent to 1.0 to 4.0 moles of a S 2 per mole of Na2O, said alkali metal sili cate being in the form of an aqueous solution having a solids content of from 20 to 60 weight per cent. 2. Detergent composition according to claim 1 wherein the cationic surfactant coated on the aluminosilicate particles is in an amount of from 100 to 2000 ppm by weight. 3. Detergent composition according to claim 2 wherein the aluminosilicate is a crystalline zeolitic molecular sieve. 4. Detergent composition according to claim 3 wherein the cationic surfactant is a quaternary ammonium compound having the general formula R, R3 R4 N1 Y wherein at least one, but not more than two, of the R groups is an organic radical containing a group selected fromC8 C22 aliphatic radical, or an alkyl phenyl or alkylbenzyl radical having 10 to 16 carbon atoms in the alkyl chain, the remaining group or groups being selected from C1 C4 alkyl,C2 C4 hydroxy alkyl, and cyclic structures in which the nitrogen atom forms part of the ring, Y constituting an anionic radical selected from the group consisting of hydroxide, halide, sulfate, methylsulfate, ethylsulfate and phosphate ions. 5. Detergent composition according to claim 4 wherein the quaternary ammonium cationic surfactant is an alkyltrimethylammonium chloride wherein the alkyl group contains from 14 to.l8 carbon atoms. 6. Detergent composition according to claim 4 wherein the aluminosilicate is zeolite A and the alkali metal silicate is sodium silicate.

## Description
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This invention relates in general to granular detergent compositions which comprise as essential .ingredients an alkali metal silicate, a waterinsoluble aluminosilicate and a cationic surfactant.More particularly it relates to spray dried detergent compositions containing the aforesaid essential ingredients wherein the aluminosilicate particles are coated with the cationic surfactant in an amount of at least 50 ppm wt. at least prior to being subjected to the elevated temperatures and CO2 containing environment of the spray dryer, and preferably prior to being brought into contact with an aqueous solution of the sodium silicate. Because of the suspected entrophication properties attributed to phosphate builders in detergent compositions such as those used for laundering fabrics, it has become conventional in the art to substitute for some or all of the phosphate formerly employed, a water insoluble aluminosilicate which can be either amorphous or crystalline. Another necessary component of such detergents is an alkali metal silicate, such as sodium silicate. These compounds are found to minimize the corrosion of washing machine surfaces attributed to the other detergent components. In addition it has been proposed that alkali metal silicates are desirable components in spray dried detergent granules in that they aid in crutcher mix processing and also aid in maintaining crisp freefollowing granules. It is further known, however, that there are difficulties attendant the use of both aluminosilicates and alkali metal silicates in the same detergent composition. As reported in U.S.P.4,019,999 issued April 26, 1977 to T. s. Ohren et al these two constituents have a pronounced tendency to aggregate through bridging of the aluminosilicate particles. In aqueous slurry a chemical reaction takes place which can the theorized as involving 5i OH and or SiO ionized groups of the aluminosilicate and the alkali metal silicate which can condense to form Si O Si linkages and result in the aggregatiorr by bridging.The aggregates then fail to disperse in the washing medium and deposit on the fabric as a white floc which is particùlarly evident on dark fabrics. It has been proposed to avoid the deposition problem by limiting the amount of sodium silicate to less than about 3 by weight based on the overall weight of the detergent compositions containing from 5 to 95 weight per cent aluminosilicate.This solution is disclosed in U.S.P. 3,985,669 issued October 12, 1976 to Krummel et al. The sodium silicate is employed in the form of a solid particle. A third essential ingredient is a watersoluble surface active agent selected from the group consisting of anionic, nonionic, ampholytic and zwitterionic surfactants. It would be desirable, however, to be able to utilize greater concentrations of alkali metal silicates and or aqueous solutions of alkali metal silicates in preparing detergent compositions. It is therefore the general object of the present invention to provide a detergent composition suitable for spray drying which contains an aqueous solution of alkali metal silicate in conjunction with an aluminosilicate builder, and which is highly dispersible in water even after spray drying so that floc deposition on fabrics is ameliorated. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION A spray dried detergent composition comprising an alkali metal silicate and an aluminosilicate ionexchanger prepared by spray drying a precursor composition containing aqueous alkali metal silicate solution and a cationic surfactant coated aluminosilicate. The cationic surfactant is found to inhibit the tendency of the alkali metal silicate or derivatives thereof formed during spray drying to react with the aluminosilicate particle and create non dispersable floc aggregates. THE PRESENT INVENTION The aluminosilicate components used in the present invention are any of synthetic or naturally occurring zeolites heretofore prised for use in detergent compositions such as 1 crystalline aluminosilcate zeolites having the general formula Mxt AIo2 x sio2 ylZ H20 wherein x and y are integers, preferably having a value of at least 6 the molar ratio of x to y is in the range of 0.1 to 1.1 and z is an integer from about 8 to 264, pr.eferably a value such that in the spray dried detergent product containing same, the zeolite contains from about 10 to 30 weight adsorbed water, and M is preferably sodium but can also be potassium, ammonium or substituted ammonium, or 2 amorphous hydrated aluminosilicate material of the empirical formula M zAlO2 . y SiO2 wherein M is sodium, potassium, ammonium or substituted ammonium, z is from about 0.5 to 2, y is 1 and said material has a magnesium ion exchange capacity of at least about 50 milligrams of CaC03 harness per gram of ankydrous aluminosilicate or 3 mixtures thereof.Mixture of zeolite A and zeolite X wherein either zeolite constitutes at least 30 weight per cent of the overall zeolite mixture and the other zeolite constitutes a complementary amount, are especially preferred as the aluminosilicate constituent. The cationic surfactant is preferably any of the quaternary ammonium compounds having the formula R,R2R3R4 N wherein at least one, but not more than two, of the R groups is an organic radical containing a group selected from C8 C22 aliphatic radical, or an alkyl phenyl or alkylbenzyl radical having 10 to 16 carbon atoms in the alkyl chain, the remaining group or groups being selected from C1 C4 alkyl,C2 C4 hydroxy alkyl, and cyclic structures in which the nitrogen atom forms part of the ring, Y constituting an anionic radical selected from the group consisting of hydroxide, halide, sulfate, methylsulfate, ethylsulfate and phosphate ions. The alkali metal silicates employed in preparing the present detergent compositions are preferably sodium silicates with about 1.0 to 4.0 moles of SiO2 per mole of Na2o. Equivalent potassium and lithium silicates are also useful. The alkali metal silicates are preferably employed in the form of concentrated aqueous solutions containing from 20 to 60 solids, but hydrated and anhydrous silicate powders can be imparted to the overall detergent composition along with an appropriate amount of water if desired. It is an important aspect of this invention that the aluminosilicate constituent be coated with the cationic surfactant, or a portion thereof, before there is contact of the aluminosilicate with the alkali metal silicate under conditions which permit significant reaction between these two materials.Advantageously, and preferably, the aluminosilicate is coated with from about 100 ppm to about 2OOO.fpm of the cationic surfactant before any contact with an aqueous sodium silicate solution is. allowed, i.e. the aluminosilicate cationic surfactant composite is imparted to the crutcher as an already prepared material. In all events the aluminosilicate must contain the cationic surfactant coating before the overall detergent composition is subjected to spray drying. While not wishing to be bound by any particular theory, it is believed that the principal cause of bridging of the aluminosilicate particles to form undesirable aggregates is a condensation reaction between silicic acid an or terminal silanol groups on polymerized silicic species and Si OH groups of the aluminosilicate. While relatively small amounts of silicic acid are present in the alkali metal silicate solution employed, there is apparently enough to cause appreciable floc formation even at ambient room temperatures during prolonged periods. In the spray dryer, however, the detergent feed containing relatively large amounts of water is contacted at elevated temperatures, i.e., 500by to about 9000F, by a rather high concentration of carbon dioxide. This permit the formation of H2C03 which then can react with the alkali metal silicate to produce silicic acid in accordance with the following equation 2 Si OH 30 Na H2CO3 2 Si OH 4 Na2CO3The silicic acid in turn bonds to aluminosilicate zeolite surfaces by the following equation EMI7.1 tb SEP ZE6LIT SEP GURFAGE, SEP ZEOLITE SEP URPACE tb SEP g SEP St SEP 1 SEP SEP ,1 tb SEP Si SEP 0 SEP I tb SEP 0 SEP 0110 tb SEP OH SEP N1 SEP OH SEP Na SEP N4E, SEP O SEP Na tb SEP I SEP a SEP 2H0 tb OH SEP SEP Si SEP SEP OB SEP 9 SEP ti SEP i SEP OH SEP 2 tb SEP 01H SEP O SEP OH SEP Na SEP N SEP Na SEP l tb SEP si SEP L tb SEP Si SEP A1 SEP 1 SEP Si SEP A1 tb SEP 1 1 1 SEP Ak SEP tb SEP ZEOLITE SEP SURFACE SEP ZEOLITE SEP SURFACE tb of course monomeric silicic acid is not the only active species, and polymerized silica can also be considered to be a reactive bonding agent. The cationic surfactant coating on the aluminosilicate interferes with this or similar bonding reactions without inhibiting appreciably the ion exchange activity of the aluminosilicate when the detergent is added to the washing medium. The method of coating the aluminosilicate with the surfactant is not a critical factor. Ordinarily the aluminosilicate is simply slurried or otherwise washed with a solution of the surfactant in a suitable solvent such as water or a mixture of water and polar organic solvent such as isopropanol. There is a considerable attraction between the cationic surfactant and the mimic aluminosilicate, and accordingly other types of surfactants, builders and other traditional detergent ingredients can be included in the present compositions without loss of the benefits obtained using the three essential ingredients alone.The compositions, properties and preparation of other organic surfactants are well represented in the patent literature and a detailed review of such readily available material will not be undertaken here. We hereinafter disclose examples of certain classes of and individual surfactants that can be used in the detergents of our invention. It is not intended that the scope of our invention be limited to these specific materials, but that equivalent materials also be included. Anionic surfactants are particularly important in the detergent compositions of our invention. Such anionic materials include, among others, alkali metal soaps of fatty acids, alkali metal salts of alkyl sulfuric acid reaction products, sodium alkyl glyceryl ether sulfonates, succinamates and anionic phosphates, one of the most commonly used anionic surfactants is the sodium salt of linear alkyl benzene sulfonate LAS wherein the alkyl group contains more than 10 carbon atoms. LAS forms at least a part of many of the surfactant systems used in our detergent compounds and may be the only surfactant used. Nonionic surfactants are also useful and include, among others, polyethylene oxide condensate of alkyl phenols, condensation products of aliphatic alcohols with ethylene oxide, nonyl phenol ethylene oxide condensates, amine oxides and posphine oxides. Ampholytic surfactants such as the aliphatsc deriva tives of heterocyclic secondary and tertiary amines and zevitterionie surfactants such as derivatives of aliphatic quaternary ammonium compounds are also useful. Although sufficient aluminosilicate cationic surfactant composite builder and alkali metal silicate can be used to accommodate any laundering environment it may be desired to include an auxiliary builder in the detergent compositions of our invention. Such auxiliary builders include salts of phosphates, pryophosphates, orthophosphates, polyphosphates, phosphonates, carbonates, and polyhydroxysulfonates, organic sequestering agents such as polyacetates, carboxylates, polyaminocarboxylates and polyhydroxysulfonates are of use in our detergent compo sitions. Specific examples of useful materials include sodium and potassium salts of tripolyphosphate, pyrophosphate, hexametaphosphate, ethylenediaaminotetraacetic acid, nitrilotriacetic acid, citric acid, citric acid isomers and others. The present detergents can also include numerous additional detergent ingredients. Antirediposition agents ruch as sodium carboxymethyl cellulose prevent certain types of soils from redipositioning on clean fabric. Minor detergent ingredients such as enzymes, optical brighteners and bleaches are included to remove stains and or improve the appearance of the fabric. Other minor detergent ingredients such as perfumes, anti caking agents, dyes, colored specks and fabric softeners are added to improve the properties or appearance of the detergent or fabric. Since detergent actives are effective at low concentrations, it is important the bulking agents be added to the formulation so that measurement of the appropriate dose is facilitated.We have found bulking agents such as sodium sulfates, sodium chloride and other neutral alkali metal salts to be effective. The detergent compositions of this invention thus comprise, prior to spray drying a O to 30Z by weight of one or more organic surfactants b 10 to 90 by weight of a builder system consisting of 1 1 to 90 parts by weight of an alumino silicate having as a coating on the particles thereof, at least 50 ppm by weight of a cationic surfactant, said aluminosilicate being i a crystalline aluminosilicate zeolite having the general formula MX AlO2 x SiO2 yZz H20 wherein x and y are integers, the it molar ratio of x to y being in the range of 0.1 to 1.1, and z is an integer from about 8 to 264 or ii an amorphous hydrated aluminosilicate having the empirical formula Mz zAl02 ySiO2 wherein M is sodium, potassium, ammonium or substituted ammonium, z is from about 0.5 to 2 , y is 1, sald material having a magnesium ion exchangecapacity oat least about 50 milligrams of Cacao hardness per 3 gram of anhydrous alu inosilicate or tit mixtures of i and ii and 2 4 to 35 parts by weight of a water soluble alkali metal silicate having a molar composition equivalent to 1.0 to 4.0 moles of SiO2 per mole of Na2O, said alkali metal silicate being in the form of an aqueous solution having a solids content of from 20 to 60 weight per cent. From presently available test data it appears that significant improvement in the inhibiting aggregation due to aluminosilicate bridging is obtained when as little as about 100 ppm wt. of the cationic surfactant is coated on the aluminosilicate particles. It appears that with coatings constituting more than about 2000 ppm wt , no further improvement is obtained, and in fact some decrease in effectiveness results compared with the effectiveness of lesser amounts. Accordingly it is preferred that the aluminosilicate composites contain a coating of from about 100 ppm to 2000 ppm by weight based on the anhydrous weight of the aluminosilicate. Example 1 In order to demonstrate the effectiveness of cationic surfactant treated zeolite particles in promoting the dispersability of a spray dried detergent containing high levels of sodium silicate and zeolite particles, two spray dried detergents were prepared in which the only significant dif ference was in the zeolite constituent. In one sample A the zeolite particles were coated with about 500 ppm of a cationic quaternaryammonium talkyltrimethylammonium chloride in which the primary alkyl group contains trom 14 to 18 carbon atoms . In sample B, the zeolite was untreated. . The composition contained a.EMI12.1 tb SEP Weight tb component SEP Sample SEP A SEP Spmple SEP B tb anhydrous tb Sodium SEP silicate tb SiO2 Na20 SEP r SEP 2.4 wt. SEP 9.2 SEP 9.4 tb Cm3 SEP as SEP Na2C03 SEP 33.4 SEP 33. SEP 2 SEP tb Volatiles SEP Loss tb on SEP heating SEP to tb 100 C. SEP 8.8 SEP 11.7 tb Coated with 500 ppm cationic surfactant anhydrous basisBoth samples were subjected to a dissolution screen analysis procedure which utilized a tergotometer, a R.O.Tap Testing Sieve shaker, a series of seven U.S. standard sieves Nos. 30, 40, 50, 70, 100, 200 and 325, plus top and bottom , a drying oven, a 10kw diameter Buchner funnel, a 3 diameterBuchner funnel, a 2 liter vacuum flask, a 4 liter Erlemeyer flask, Watman No. 1 filter paper and an aspirator. The analysis procedure was as follows a The clean sieve series plus sieve bottom and 3h Buchner funnel with filter paper were dried in a 1000C oven, cooled to room temperature, and weighed. b One liter of a solution of hardness water 150 ppm,Ca Mg 3 2 was heated to 500C in the tergotometer. c Twenty five grams of the detergent sample to be tested was added to the hardness water in the tergotometer and the contents agitated for 10 minutes at 100 RPM. d A sieve tower is prepared from the sieve series and set into the 10kw diameter Buchner tunnel, which is inserted into.the four liter Erlemeyer flask. e The contents of the tergotometer were emptied a into the sieve tower. Particles clinging to the tergotometer a tub were rinsed out with distilled water and added to the same tower. f When it was observed that water was no longer dripping from the sieve tower, the bottom was placed on the tower and the entire apparatus placed in a 1000C drying oven for twenty two hours. g The collected liquid fraction was filtered with the aid of vacuum using the weighed 3 Buchner funnel and WhatmanNo. 1 filter paper. h The 3 Buchner funnel with filtered contents was placed in a 100 C drying oven for twenty two hours. i After drying the sieve top was placed on the sieve tower and along with the Buchner funnel was allowed to cool to room temperature. j The sieve tower was placed in the R.O. Tap TestingSieve Shaker for three minutes. k Each sieve plus bottom and Buchner funnel was weighed and any increase in weight noted. 1 The total solids recovered plus the percentage of solids on each sieve were recorded. The percentage of solids collected on the sieve bottom and the filter were combined to represent the fine fraction. Screen analysis of the starting samples showed that the median particle size of Sample A was about 360 micrometers, and for Sample B the median particle size was about 45 t micrometers. The results of the dissolution screen analysis procedure showed that detergent Sample A containing the surfactant coated zeolite dispersed to the degree that the median particle size was less than 44 micrometers, whereas the comparison Sample B containing untreated zeolite particles , the dispersion was such that the median particle size was about 120 micrometers.