# Digital sound storage system.

## Abstract
An audio signal storage and playback system compris ing a solid state module in which a series of digitised data signals representing audio signals are recorded sequentially and a replay unit into which the module is plugged by means of a plug and socket arrangement having connectors A F. The replay unit includes digital to analogue converters and audio amplifiers 110, 118 108, 116 for each channel and preselector means 126 to enable the operator to select the point in the recording at which replay begins.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An audio signal storage and playback system Comprising a solid state iccute in which a series of digitised data signals rC pLu nting audio signals are recorded in a sequential fashion, and a replay unit including means for accessing the signal in the module and reading them out sequentially, digital to analogue conversion means for converting the sequential digital signals into a continuously varying analogue signal, amFlifier means for amplifying the analogue signal, and control means to enable an oprator to control the replay unit, the module and the replay unit including cooperating means whereby the module may be plugged into the replay unit to establish electrical connections between them. 2. An audio signal storage and playback system according to claim 1 in which the module comprises a reprogrammable device and the replay unit further comprises analogue to digital conversion means for recording audio signals in the module. 3. An audio signal storage and playback system according to claim 1 in which the module comprises a read only memory. 4. An audio signal storage and playback system according to any preceding claim in which the said replay unit further comprises a clock signal generating circuit arranged to control the output from the module at a required playback speed. 5. An audio signal storage and replay system according to any preceding claim further comprising anually contiollable selector means adapted to apply a signal to the rov e to initiate replay of the stored signals from a pre elected point in the series of digitised siganals. 6. An audio signal storage and replay system according to any preceding claim in which the said odcle comprises a semiconductor memory. 7. An audio signal storage and replay system according to any preceding claim in which the said odale comprises a bubble memory. 8. An audio signal storage and replay system according to claim 2 or any of claims 4 to 7 when depen ent on claim 2, in which the replay unit includes means for time encoding the audio signal when it is recorded in such a zy as to economist on storage space. 9. An audio signal storage and replay system according to any preceding claim in which the replay unit includes means for decoding recorded digital data which has been time encoded on recording.

## Description
DIGITAL SOUND STORAGE SYSTEMThis Invention rel es to a thod of recording, storage and playback repley cf audio fr 3urncy data, typically music and srueech, which is t nly to be found at present stored in the form Of gramophone records or magnetic tape cassettes.The original source of the data can be fiom an analogue signal a musical instrument or a digit signal which has the characteristics allowing it to be stored, after suitable processing, in a similar fashion to an audio frequency analogue signal. although the invention is applicable to all forms of audio frequency data or information it is particularly applicable to recorded music for sale to the general public. Hereinafter the data or information to be stored will be referred to as music.The traditional methods of recording music have always relied upon the storage of the information in one medium and the processing of that information in another. For instance in the case of gramophone records the storage is a mechanically transcribed track on a plastic disc and the signal processing is electronic. In the case of a cassette recording, the storage is a magnetic orientation of the magnetic material on tape again with electronic signal processing. Degradation of the original music usually arises in the storage stage and the transcription from the storage medium to the electronic stage whilst the dilution of quality in the electronic amplification stage of reproduction is negligeable.The overriding problems of reproduction ha ve centered around the transfer of a fo . then from storage media to the electronic processing. For grenophose records this involves avaiding dange to the tracks of the record, mintaining the turniable at a constant speed, not only over a long period of time but also ensuring that this speed is constant and ripple frec throughout each revolution, sleping the playing surface free from dust and dirt, keeping the pressure from the stylus at a very low but correct level. replacing the stylus as it becomes worn. allowing freedom of movement of pick up arm, generally keeping the whole apparatus horizontal, preventing vibration from being transmitted to the record, keeping the record away from excessive heat whilst being stored, and for tape recordings keeping the replay head clean and ince from dust, maintaing constant tape speed, storing the tapes away from stray magnetic fields, maintaining securate aligment of tape and replay head, preventing magnetic imprinting of one track to its adjacent track when tightly wound, preventing exide buid up on the replay head, proper selection of magnetic media to obtain the desired frequency range and an acceptably low level of noise, prevention of wow and flutter in the system, correction of permanent practisation of the replay head. selection of tape of constant and regular thickness over its playing length.This invention seeks to provide a method of storing music such that these traditional major problems are overcome, so as to maintain the original quality of the stored music allowing it to be repcatedly replayed at its original level of quality and not be subject to degradations in quality ov r periods of time as is the case with the currently aveilable methods.This invention will chow the music to be stored in a more robust fashion than in the methods it can replace. Further, a preferred embodiment of this invention, when used in a replay system will generally use less power to reproduce the music as no moving parts are required. Also this embodiment will enable an equal amcunt of music to be stored in a smaller volume then a record or cassette so giving even more advantages to portable replay equipment. According to the present invention, music is stored in an electronic fashion in an electronic memory. The music is converted to a digital signal and it is this digital signal which is stored in the memory. The electronic memory can be of a type known as a read only memory or an electronic memory that can be both read and write for the user. In the first type the storage can be performed. by a manufacturer as happens in the case of gramophone records the user can only replay them and cannot alter that which is already stored on the plastic disc. In this instance the most suitable type of electronic memory will be the read only memory type.In the second type the music Can be stored as is arranged for a tape cassette the music stored on the tape can be erased and replaced as the user repaus but may also have been pro reccided by manufacturer. For this type of use the electronic memory will need to be of a read and write type.Preferably, the electronic memory comprises one more memory circuits e. g. silicon chips mounted as a module which contains all the necessary memory, the the necessary interconnecting circuitry. The module is preferably so constructed as to be easily connected and disconnected from its replay equipment e. g. in a plug in arrangement , using a small number cf electrical interconnecting contacts with tile replay equipment. These contacts are preferrably sitably protected from damage both mechanical and electrical.The module is also preferrably of a size comparable with equivalent plug in modules for domestic use typically no bigger than a tape cassette but not too small to be easily lost. ln a practical application tit tOir invention, for storage of commercial sound recordings, thu music is preferrably converted to a digital form in the recording studio affording it the least possible degradation. It is then stored in a digital fashion in the memory and is replayed into the replay equipment in a digital fashion, being converted to an analogue form in the replay equipment preferrably just prior to being amplified and fed to the speakers. As the recording, storage and replay are all electronic and all in the same digital format then all of the problems listed above involving changes of media and format etc. art completely circumvented. Further, the recording is permanent and does not degrade with time.In a preferred arrangement, the module can have six individual connections diranged as folleas two for the power supply, two for the music out scrial data , one line for cach channel of stereo, one for the synchronising modale clock pulse signal in, one for a serial signal in to preset the starting point of the oplay, If only mono ial music is to be eplayed then the number of lines is reduced by one. Aively two further lines may be provided for two cbannels of stereo musie to be input to the module for a Read and Write arrang eht. The digitising of speech signals may be carried out at GOO samples per second, i.e. 8kHz. Music needs a higher sample g rate. For excellent reproduction, 80kHz is necessary do ble for stereo . Very good repnoduction can be obtained with 40 H and for low guality some popular music ecoids 20kHz is all that is needed. The subsequent encodiiig ray bse linear PCM pulse coded modulation which needs 14 hits per sample, whilst companded sampling can be done with 12 bits per sample. Delta modulation needs a reduced number of bits but will need an increased sampling rate.Predictive filtering and other techniques that could be assimilated into an intelligent replay equipment may be used to reduce the total volume of storage by a reasonable amount.An Embodiment of the invention will now be considered, The storage requirements for this embodiment can be assessed from reviewing a good guality musie requirement. The music has beon asrumcd to be encoded by Lincdr PCM Pulse Code Eodulation using a measure of conpanding in a digitisation of 12 hits per sarple. The music has bcen sampled at 30,000 samples per second x 60 seconds per minute 1,800,000 samples per minute . At 12 bits per sample this produces 21.6 Megabits per minute of storage, say 20 Megabits of storage per minute of recording.In the embodirent no sure of predictive filtering has been essumed for the replay tquipment and no sophistidcated memory saving arrengem ts codes etc. have been assnmed.The embodiment uses the kead cnly Memory arrangement of the invention.The component parts of the embodiment and its principle of operation will now be described with reference to figures 1 and 2. Figure 1 shows the electronie system arrangement and interconnectiens within a medule and figure 2 shows the way by which the module would interact with a replay equipment. With reference to figure 1, th Module, 2, is shown comprisingMemeries 4 and 6, Converters 8 and 10, Buffers 12 and 14,Counter 16, Controller 18, Register 20, various interconnections Lines 24, 2G, 28, 30, 32, 34, 36, 3, Q, 42, 4A, 46 and 48 aiid a Module Connector, 22. Memory 4 contains all of the previously stored music for the left channedl of sterco musie. Memory 6 contains the stored music for the right channelConveriters 8 aud 10 are paiallel te serial converters, accepting 12 brt parallel input data and out putting serial data, The contput of Mc ery 4 is connected to the input ofConverter 8 by Line 24. Line 24 comprises 12 individual interconnectionsl. Lilewise the of Memery 6 is connected to the input of Coiveri er 10 Thy Line 2G, Line 26 again having 12 individual interconnections.The data from the Memories 4 and 6, one word of 32 bits from aTh Memory, is transferred word by word to Convcrtols X and 10 by the action of the 30kHz signal on Line 38 and the serial dat a is clocked Clot fro on Converters 8 and 10 by the dule Clock, Line 36 both of which signals are described in meie detail below.Buffers 12 and 14 are used to amplify the serial output of theConverters Lines 28 and 30 connect the outputs of Converters 8 and 10 to the iiiputs of Buffers 12 and 14 respectively. The outputs of Buffers 12 and 14 are connected to pins A and B of the Module Connector, 22, via Lines 32 and 34 Lines 32 and 34 being single inierconnections each. The replay equipment would normally connect with these pins arid process the encoded music into an audio form. An arrangement of the replay equipment is described below.In the event that the module is intended solely for mono aural music then only one channel would be required Memory 6,Converter 10, Ruffer 14, Lines 26,, 30, 34 and pin A of theModule Connector would not be included.Counter 16 is a Divide by Twelve Register Its Siiput sigiiat emmanates from the replay equizlnent arriving at the module on pin of the Module Connector, 14, and linked to Counter 16 byLine 36, a single intereonnection. it is termed the ModuleClock and in this embodin nt is at a frequency of 360,000 pulses per ser kHz . The output of Counter 16, at kHz, is dire ted to Controller 18 via Line 38, a single lntsrccrnection.The Module Clock contains an airangement of a synche onising signal very welfth pulse such that the 30kHz signal derived inside the odule is in s6ynchroniem with the similar 30kHz signal in the replay eguipment.Controller 18 erts as a Current Memory Location Controller and is increnented hy the 30kHz signal, Line 38, fiom Counter 16. Its size will he dependent on the length of the music stored and will geherally be between 24 tp 28 stages of pure binary counting. In this embodiment it will be assumed to be 26 stages. The output signal of 2b bits from Controller 18 is directed to Nerory 4 and Memory 6 via Line 44, Line 44 comprising 20 individual interconnections. Controller 18 has also a secondary input from kegister 20.When an input is receied fion qister 20, vea line 42 again of 20 indivdival interconnections, Controller 3t assumes the value given to it from Register 20. Register 20 is a Start at Zero and Pre selection Register .It is controlled by an occasional signal from the replay equipment. This signal, the Pre Select signal, enters theModule on pin D of the Module Connector and is a serial digital word of 26 bits in length. The signal is self clocking and also contains an end of word characteristic feature al towingRegister 20 to detect that it has received all of the data and then proceed to pre sent this data as an input to Controller 18.This signal is transferred fiom the Module Connector toFegister 20 vie Line 40, a single interconnection. The two other pins of the module Connector, E aid F, are used to provide electrical power to the Module. Lines 46 and 48 accomplish the power distlibution to all of the components.The principle of opeiation of the evbodiment will be des ribed using the arrangement having a Read only Memory thpe, such that the encoded musie has previously been stored in Memories 4 and 6 during manufacture of the module and cannot be subsequently altered.Figure 2 shews an arrang nt whereby the Module is connected into a replay equipment. The Replay Equipment shows the electronic components and their interconnection arrangtements.The Connector on the Replay Equipment, 104, is a rating connector for the Connector on the Module 22, a plug and socket .The 360kHz Oseillator, 122, feeds, via Line 148, theDividc by Twelve Counter, 324, and, via 2 P C of the Connector,Counter 16 in the Module. These Counters arc similar in design and because of an arrangent of synchronising signal cvery twelfth pulse of the 360kHz from Oscillator 122, the 30kHz outputs from both Counter 124 and Counter 16 are in synchronisation.A serial data word ol 12 bits is received or irom the Module on pin h of the Connector and is routed via Line 132 to serial to parallel Convertor 106. When the final bit of the word has been received by Converter 106, the parallel word is presented to Digital i Analogue cri or 108, via 1 inc 1 34, by the action of the 30 kHz siqnal en Line 150. Line 134 has 12 interconnections.The output of Convertor 108 is fed toAudio Amplifier 110 via Line 136 and thence to Loudspeaker 112 via Line 338. Amplifier 130 has the normal controls of a conventional amplifier, volume, bass, treble etc. The conversion proccss is repeated at a rate of 30,000 words per second The second channel of stereo music is processed in exactly the same fashion via pin B, Line 140, Serial to Parallel Convertor 114, Line 142, Digital to Analogue Convertor 116, Line 144,Audio Amplifier 138, Line 146 and Loudspeaker 320. The Power Source 130 provides the necessary electrical power for the arrangement and feeds via Lines 156 and 158 to pins E and F of the Connector. A Pre Selector, 126, is provided. Its output is taken via Line 154 to pin D of the Co nector. The operator, using selection switches on the Pre Selector, will be able to start the replay from any point in the piece of music. The result of the operators selection Js coded into a serial data word and transmitted to Register 2 in the module. In the absence of any positive action by the operator, the replay would be commanded to start at the beginning of the music.The Module is easily disconnected and removed from the Replay Equipment allowing another Module to be inserted into theReplay Equipment and hence new music to be replayed.