# Connecting link for gaseous or liquid media.

## Abstract
A connecting link intended for transferring gaseous, powderous or liquid medium, even under pressure, between two connecting points movable relative to each other. The connecting link is of the type comprising a tubular member with connecting pieces 2,3 located at its ends for connect ing the link to said points, and at least one ball joint 22 located in connection to one of the connecting pieces 2,3 and comprising a ball 23 supported in a seat, which ball 23 includes a through channel 27,42,43 . This ball 23 is sealed in its seat by two parallel and spaced sealing arrangements 28 on both sides of one end of the through channel 27,42,43 of the ball, 23 which channel extends angularly through the same, and is exposed to the same pressure on its surfaces located between the sealing arrangements, whereby the ball 23 is maintained balanced in its seat irrespective of the pressure prevailing in the link.

## Claims
Claims 1. A connecting link for transferring a gaseous, powderous or liquid medium, even under pressure, between two connecting points movable relative to one another, comprising a tubular member with connecting pieces located at its ends for connecting said connecting link to said connecting points, and at least one ball joint located in connection to one of said connecting pieces and comprising a ball with through channel supported in a seat, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n that the ball in its seat is sealed by two parallel and spaced sealing arrangements on both sides of one end of the channel extending through the ball, which channel extends angularly therethrough, and that the ball is exposed to the same pressure on its surfaces located between the sealing arrangements whereby the ball is maintained balanced in its seat irrespective of the pressure prevailing in the link. 2. A link as defined in claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n that the ball is provided with radial, diametrically extending channels located in one plane, one end of whibh channels is located between the sealing arrangements, and which channels meet in a cavity located in the ball, which cavity communicates with the associated connecting piece through a channel located angularly in relation to said plane 3. A link as defined in claim 1 or 2, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n that each sealing arrangement has one curved surface abutting the ball, and the surfaces of these sealing arrangements together constitute the seat surfaces of the ball. 4. A link as defined in claim 3, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n that said curved surface is formed on an inner sealing member of bearing metal or bearing plastic in each of the sealing arrangements, and that the inner sealing members thereof are adjusted to the ball by means of a tightening nut. 5. A link as defined in claim 4, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n that the inner sealing member in each sealing arrangement is held pressed against the ball by an outer sealing member, which can consist of a solidO ring or an elastic ring with cylindric cross section and an overall gap on its side facing to the other sealing member for being exposed internally to a pressure acting between the sealing arrangements and on the ball, and that the outer sealing member is located in a space tapering wedge shaped inward, i.e. to the other sealing member. 6. A link as defined in any one of the preceding claims, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n that the tubular member connected to the ball joint consists of two telescopic tubular slides, an outer slide and an inner slide, which irrespective of relative movement have a through channel with unchanging volume. 7. A link as defined in claim 6, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n that both the outer slide and the inner slide are closed at one end, that the closed end of the inner slide faces to the closed end of the outer slide, which from its closed end is enclosed a portion of its length by a sleeve shaped member for forming an axial space therebetween, which communicates with one of the connecting pieces directly or via a ball joint, and with the longitudinal cavity of the inner slide via openings in the outer slide and longitudinal slits in the inner slides, which extend from the closed end of the inner slide and have a length corresponding at least to the maximum length of movement between the slides. 8. A link as defined in claim 7, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n that between the closed ends of the two slides facing to each other a space is located which in response to the relative movement of the slides varies and communicates via a channel with the atmosphere. 9. A link as defined in claim 7 or 8, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n that the inner slide is sealed against the outer slide by two sealings, between which the slits of the inner slides are located. 10. A link as defined in any of the preceding claims, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n that each ball joint is designed so as to permit the link to turn or rotate about the channel axle extending angularly relative to the radial channels of the ball, which rotation is unrestricted and at least through 300 to and from said axle, whereby several links each comprising a connecting piece curved through 900 can be connected to a link chain, which can be folded together like a folding rule.

## Description
Connecting link for gaseous or liquid mediaThis invention relates to a connecting link for the transfer of gaseous or liquid medium, for example air, hydraulic liquid, liquid fuel etc., between two connecting points, which are movable relative to each other,for example for the transfer of a medium from a supply source to a consumer movable relative thereto.For the transport, for example, of hydraulic liquid to a hydraulic cylinder, which is movably attached, it is necessary with known art to use flexible pressure hoses, which can adjust to the movement and different positions of the cylinder. It was found, however, that pressure hoses of types commercially available, and especially pressure hoses intended for high pressures, have the tendency, particularly at low temperatures, to burst or break and thereby cause shutdowns and other damages more or less extensive. Such hose breaks also have been deemed to be so serious, that hose failure valves are used which release as soon as a hose break occurs and thereby cut off the connection in order to prevent discharge of hydraulic liquid. These hose failure valves, however, do not prevent hose breaks, but only reduce the damages involved with a hose break.Hose breaks are a great problem and, therefore, there is a great demand of rendering available a connecting or transfer member, which is much more reliable than the hose.A hose, moreover, also implies the limitation that it does not withstand the same high pressures as other components in pressure medium cnn i when the hose has great dimensions.As an alternative to the hose as a connecting link, a so called transport link, for example, is known through DE OS 1 811 156 and 1 910 988. It consists of a tubular body of metal, which at each end is formed with a ball joint permitting a certain limited movement.Each ball joint comprises a ball, which is supported in a partially spherical seat in the body and connected to a connecting piece, and which includes a diametrical through channel between the interior of the body and the connecting piece and a surface facing to the interior of the body, which surface at prevailing pressure is exposed to this pressure and thereby to a force, which tends to press the ball into its seat, which results in deteriorated mobility, and which at high pressures locks the joint. This known transport link, therefore, cannot be used at applications where high pressures are used.The present invention, therefore, has the object to provide such a transport link, which does not show the aforesaid disadvantages, but renders possible the transfer of a medium even under high pressure, and which, besides, permits a substantially higher mobility than conventional transport links.This object is achieved in that the connecting link according to the present invention has been given the characterizing features defined in the attached claims.The invention is described in greater detail in the following, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Fig 1 is a section through a connecting link according to the invention of a telescpic design,Figs. 2 and 3 are lateral views each of a tubular slide comprised in the telescopic link according toFig. 1, Fig. 4 is a section along the line IV IV inFig. 1, Fig. 5 is a section along the line V V in Fig.2, Fig. 6 is a section along the line VI VI in Fig. 3,Fig. 7 is a section along the line VII VII in Fig. 3, Fig. 8 is a section through a connecting link according to the invention of a non telescopic design, Fig. 9 is a section through a joint comprised in the connecting link, Figs. 10 and 11 are sections of an inner and, respectively, outer sealing member at one embodiment of the sealing of the joint, Fig. 12 is a partial section through a ball joint according to the invention at an alternative design of the sealing, Fig. 13 is a section of an inner sealing member of the sealing according toFig. 12, Figs. 14 and 15 show schematically a cylinder mounting with hose according to the state of art and, respectively, with connecting links according to the invention, Figs. 16 and 17 show schematically two further cylinder mountings with connecting links according to the invention, Fig. 18 shows on an enlarged scale and by way of section a detail of the left hand connecting link in Fig. 17, Fig. 19 shows on an enlarged scale and by way of section a detail of the attachment of the right hand connecting link in Fig. 17, Figs. 20 and 21 show schematically two further cylinder mountings with connecting links according to the invention, Fig. 22 shows schematically a mounting of a connecting link according to the invention for transferring a medium to or from a rotating consumer, Figs. 23 and 24 show schematically a mounting of connecting links at a crane with telescopic extension jib for transferring hydraulic medium to the telescope cylinder in retracted and respectively, extended position, Figs. 25 and 26 show schematically a single and, respectively, a double conduit mounting at a toggle joint with connecting links according to the invention, Fig. 27 shows schematically a hydraulic conduit mounting with connecting links according to the invention for a jib pivotal about perpendicular axles, for example an excavator jib, Fig. 28 shows schematically mn arrangement with connecting links according to the invention for transferring a medium to a plurality of consumers movable relative to each other, for example marine engines,and Fig. 29 shows by way of section and on an enlarged scale a ball joint designed as connecting piece and comprised in a telescopic connecting link. The connecting link according to this invention comprises at the embodiments shown in Figs. 1 8 a tubular member 1 with a through channel and with sleeve shaped or tubular connecting pieces 2 and 3 at the ends for connecting the connecting link to members, between which a gaseous, pulverous or liquid medium is to be transferred through the link, and which can be movable relative to each other.At the embodiment shown in Figs. 1 7 the link is telescopic, i.e. the distance between the connecting pieces 2 and 3 is variable. The tubular member 1 consists of two hollow slides 4 and 5, which are movable relative to each other and are closed at one end, and of which the slide 4 is located movably within the second outer slide 5 and sealed against the same by sealings 6 and 7.The lastmentioned sealing 7 is retained in place by a socket 8, which is screwn detachably on the open end of the outer slide.The outer slide 5 is enclosed at least along part of its length by a sleeve 9, which is rigidly connected to the outer slide 5, and against which the slide 5 rests with a number of radially projecting shoulders 10 located at the closed end of the outer slide, which end faces toward the end of the sleeve, which end communicates through an opening 11 with the connecting piece 3. Between the ends of the outer slide and sleeve a space 12 is formed, which communicates with the connecting piece 3 and with an axial space 13, which is formed between the outer slide 5 and its sleeve 9, and which via a plurality of radial openings 14 in the outer slide 5 and a plurality of axial slits or grooves 15 in the inner slide 8 communicates with the axial cavity 16 of the inner slide, which cavity communicates with the connecting piece 2. Said slits 15 in the inner slide 4 have a length, which corresponds at least to the maximum stroke or movement length of the telescopic extension member, so that the slits always communicate with the openings 14 in the outer slide 5, irrespective of the position occupied by the two slides 4 and 5. In Fig. 1 the slides are shown in entirely retracted position, in which the inner slide LI with its closed end abuts the closed end of the outer slide, and the other end position of the slides is determined by the sealing 7, which also acts as a stop member, for example a split steel ring, and an inclined front surface 17 of a greater portion 18 formed on the inner slide 4, which portion is provided with an overall groove 19 receiving the sealing 6.A corresponding groove is located about the closed end of the inner slide for the second sealing 6, and between these sealings 6 also extend the slits 15 of the inner slide.The inner slide, as already mentioned, is formed with a closed end, which faces toward the closed end of the outer slide. It is hereby achieved that the volume in the connecting link between its connecting pieces 2 and 3 does not change, but remains the same even at relative movement between the two slides 4 and 5. For moving the slides relative to each other, a force is required which is only slightly greater than the friction forces produced by the sealings 6 and 7. This applies also when a medium under high pressure flows through or is in the connecting link, because the forces caused by the pressure of the medium on the slides 4 and 5 balance each other.In order at the movement between the slides 4 and 5 of the connecting link to prevent underpressure and, respectively, overpressure to arise in the space 20 between the ends of the slides facing toward each other, said space is connected to the atmosphere through an air channel 21, which extends through one of the radial shoulders 10, as shown in Figs. 1 and 4. The connecting link according to the invention further comprises at meast one ball joint, which is located between a connecting piece 2,3 and the tubular member 1. At one embodiment of the present connecting link the tubulr member can be a connecting piece, an example whereof is shown in Fig. 9.At the embodiments according to Figs. 1 8 the link is provided with two ball joints 22 located in direct connection one to each of the connecting pieces 2 and 3 of the link.These connecting pieces 2 and 3, more precisely, are jointed or designed integrally with a ball 23 comprised in respective ball joints 22, which ball is pivotally supported in a partially spherical seat in a ball joint holder 24. Such a ball joint holder 24 carries at its ends remote from each other both the inner slide 4 and the outer slide 5. As each ball joint 22 is identical with the other, only one will be described in greater detail with reference to Figs. 9 13.Each ball joint holder 24 comprises a hollow bearing portion 25, in which the ball 23 has its seat, and an attachment portion 26 of sleeve or tube shape and with internal or external thread for detachable connection of the holder 24 to a slide 4 or 5. Said attachment portion 26 as indicated above can be the tubular member 1 of the connecting link and, thus, one of its connecting pieces.Each ball joint holder 24 communicates through its attachment portion 26 with the slide 4,5, to which it is attached, and its ball 23 is supported in the bearing portion 25. Within this portion the ball 23 is sealed by means of two sealing means 28, which form the seat proper for the ball 23 and which are located on both sides of openings 27a formed in the ball 23 diametrically and in one plane in the periphery of the ball which have the same size.Each such sealing means 28 comprise an inner annular sealing member 29 Fig. 10 of bearing metal or bearing plastic, and ihclude an inner seat or bearing surface 30 abutting the ball 23, the radius r of which surface shall be equal to or slightly smaller than the radius R of the ball, depending on the material of which the member 29 consists, and an outer annular sealing member 31 Fig. 11 . Said member 31 can consist of a solid resilient material, for example rubber, or may have a cylindric cross section with an overall inward facing lateral gap 32, which permits pressure occurring between the sealing means 28 to act on, i.e widen, the outer sealing member 31, which thereby applies pressure on the inner sealing member 29 in response to the pressure prevailing in the medium being in the link or flowing therethrough.The outer sealing member 31 is located between surfaces 32 and 33 of the inner sealing member 29 and, respectively, the bearing portion 25 of the holder, which surfaces form between themselves a gap tapering linear inward. At certain embodiments, alternatively, only the outer sealing member 31 in each of the said forms can be used as sealing means for obtaining necessary sealing against and intended seat surfaces for the ball 23.In Figs. 12 and 13 an alternative sealing arrangement is shown, which comprises a bearing ring 34 of bearing metal with a curved seat surface 35 abutting the ball 23, a sealing ring 37 of rubber or similar material located in a groove 36 in said seat surface, and a sealing ring 38 sealing outwardly against the bearing ring 34, which sealing ring is located in a groove in the bearing portion 25 of the ball joint holder. Each bearing ring 34 has its outer surface 39 shaped conically and abuts by the same a conic surface 40 in the ball joint holder. 24, sothat the static contact pressure of the bearing rings against the ball 23 can be controlled.For this control, the ball joint holder comprises a tightening nut 41, which can be screwn into the holder 24 for fixing the ball 17 and for manually adjusting the sealing arrangements against the ball 23 and thereby the static sealing pressure. At the occurrence of pressure medium under pressure in the through channel of the connecting link, the prevailing pressure acts about the ball on the surface portions located between the sealing arrangements 28, owing to the radial diametric channels 27 in the ball 23 which meet in a cavity 42 in the ball 23, which cavity communicates with the associated connecting piece 2 or 3 through a channel 43. The forces originating from the prevailing pressure and acting on the ball 23, thus, balance each other, whereby no forces originating from the pressure stop the movement of the ball in its seat.On the ball 23, thus, act only the more or less static sealing pressures of the sealing arrangements, which pressures are adjustable by said nut 41. In the surface 30 of the inner sealing member abutting the ball 23 preferably a number of small lubricant pockets are formed which supply the joint with necessary lubricant, for example oil, in the form of a film. According to the principles, on which the present invention is based, the connection 27,42,113 extends through each ball 23 angularly outward from the connecting link and, thus, a great movement range is obtained. The link can be rotated unrestrictedly about one axle 44 see Fig. 9 of its joint, and it can simultaneously be rotated through about 450 in relation to the centre of the ball, seen in the plane of the drawing.In Fig. 8 an embodiment of the present connecting link is shown, which cannot be extended, but comprises one single tubular piece 45 between the ball joints 22 and the connecting pieces 2 and 3.This tubular piece 45 is sealingly connected by per se known couplings 46 to the attachment portion 26 of the ball joints. In the lastmentioned Figure also is shown, that the connecting pieces 2,3 can have varying shapes, and owing to the ball joints 23 several connecting links according to the invention can be jointed to a chain of links see, for example Figs. 23 and 24 , which also can be folded together like a folding rule.In the Figures 14 29 some applications fields for the present connecting link are shown by way of example. In these Figures 50 designates a stationary pipe line, 51 designates a telescopic link according to the invention, 52 designates a rigid, i.e. not extendible link according to the invention, and 53 designates a ball joint according to the invention.In Figs. 14 and 15 the difference between a cylinder mounting with hose according to known art and with telescopic connecting links 51 according to the invention is illustrated. In Figs. 16 19 the arrangement of telescopic connecting links 51 according to the invention for the transfer of hydraulic oil to hydraulic cylinders 47 is shown, which cylinders are pivotal about an axle 48. Figs. 18 and 19 show different examples of the attachment of the ball 23 proper. The ball comprised in a telescopic link 51 preferably should be attached as close as possible to the centre of movement in order to reduce the length of the link to minimum.As the Figures 16 19 speak for themselves in other respects, no further comments on them are required.The present invention is not restricted to what is set forth above and shown in the drawings, but can be altered, modified and completed in many different ways within the scope of the invention idea defined in the attached claims.