# New process for preparing an 1H indazol 3 ylacetic acid derivative.

## Abstract
A process for preparing an 1H indazol 3 ylacetic acid derivative of the formula

## Claims
We claim 1. A process for preparing an lH indazol 3 ylacetic acid derivative of the formula EMI31.1 wherein R1 is a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group, and X is a hydrogen atom, a halogen atom or a lower alkoxy group, or its salt which is characterized by reacting an aminoacetic acid derivative of the formula EMI31.2 wherein X is as defined above, or its salt with a hydrazine compound to give a compound of the formula EMI31.3 wherein X is as defined above or its salt, and, if desired, esterifying the resultant compound with a lower alkanol of the formula RaOH wherein Ra is lower alkyl to give a compound of the formula EMI32.1 wherein Ra is a lower alkyl group and X is as defined above or reacting a propionic acid derivative of the formula EMI32.2 wherein R1 and X are as defined above, and R2 is an acyl group, or its salt with a N nitrosating agent, and then subjecting the resultant product to cyclization to give the compound of the formula EMI32.3 wherein R1 and X is as defined above or its salt. 2. A process for preparing an 1H indazol 3 ylacetic acid derivative of the formula acid derivative Ia which comprises reacting the aminoacetic acid derivative I181 with an amalgam such as zinc amalgam, sodium amalgam or the like under a basic condition. c A process for preparing the lH indazol 3 ylacetic acid derivative Ia which comprises subjecting the aminoacetic acid derivative CII to a catalytic reduction in the presence of a metal catalyst such as palladium charcoal, platinum oxide, colloidal platinum or the like under basic condition. However, the prior methods as above have not led to satisfactory results in an industrial manufacture of lH indazol 3 ylacetic acid derivative Ia or its salt for the following reasons That is, 1 In the methods a and b , many complicated steps are often required for isolation of the lH indazol 3 ylacetic acid derivative Ia or its salt from the reaction mixture including various metal salts. In addition such metal salts and amalgam are needed to recover without discard of them in view of preventing pollution of environment, and furthermore use of such an amalgam gives possibly adverse influence on working environment. 2 The method c is necessarily attended with a by product, e.g. carbostylyl derivative 6 chloro 1,2 dihydroquinolin 2 one in the reaction mixture so that it is difficult to obtain the lH indazol 3 ylacetic acid derivative I or its salt in high yield. As results of extensive studying for overcoming the above mentioned problems, the present inventors have now newly found new processes for preparation of lH indazol 3 ylacetic acid derivative I or its salt, by which the object compound I or its salt can be obtained in high yield without accompanying the above mentioned various problems. Accordingly, this invention provides new processes for preparation of lH indazol 3 ylacetic acid derivative I or its salt, by which the object compound I or its salt can be obtained in higher yield and in higher purity than prior processes so that the processes according to this invention are industrially advantageous. According to this invention, lH indazol 3 ylacetic acid derivative I or its salt are prepared by the following methods A Method A EMI34.1 is an acyl group, or its salt with a N nitrosating agent, and then subjecting thus obtained compound to cyclization to give the said compound of the formula EMI35.1 wherein R1 and X is as defined above or its salt. 9. A process of claim 8, wherein the reaction of cyclization is conducted under warming or heating. 10. A process of claim 8, wherein R1 is methyl and X is 5 chlorine. 11. A process of claim 9, wherein R is methyl and X is 5 chlorine. 12. A process of claim 8, wherein R1 is ethyl and X is 5 chlorine. 13. A process of claim 9, wherein R1 is ethyl and X is 5 chlorine.

## Description
New Process for preparing an lH indazol 3 ylacetic acid derivative This invention relates to new processes for preparing an lH indazol 3 ylacetic acid derivative of the formula EMI1.1 wherein R1 is a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group, and X is a hydrogen atom, a halogen atom or a lower alkoxy group, or its salt. An lH indazol 3 ylacetic acid derivative I or its salt excepting the compound wherein X is a lower alkoxy group, is a known compound as a plant growth regulator and especially a sodium salt of the compound wherein X is 5 chloro and R1 is hydrogen, is marketed as as RUTIACE . And, various processes for preparats thereof are also known. In the various known processes for preparation of the lH indazol 3 ylacetic acid derivative I or its salt, there is exemplified a method described inJapanese Patent Publication No. 82158 1975, Laid OpenNo. 5766 1977 as the most relevant prior art. In said prior literature, the following methods are disclosed EMI2.1 EMI2.2 reductive cyclization under basic conditionEMI2.3 wherein Xa is a hydrogen atom or a halogen atom. a A process for preparing the lH indazol 3 ylacetic acid derivative Ia which comprises reacting the aminoacetic acid derivative via with a metal such as alminum, zinc or the like under a basic condition. b A process for preparing the lH indazol 3 ylacetic EMI3.1 wherein R1 is a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group, and X is a hydrogen atom, a halogen atom or a lower alkoxy group, or its salt which is characterized by reacting an aminoacetic acid derivative of the formula EMI3.2 wherein X is as defined above, or its salt with a hydrazine compound to give a compound of the formula EMI3.3 wherein X is as defined above or its salt, and if desired esterifying the compound to give a compound of the formula EMI3.4 wherein is a lower alkyl group and X is as defined above.3. A process of claim 2, wherein the reaction of the aminoacetic derivative with a hydrazine compound is conducted in the presence of a catalyst.4. A process of claim 3, wherein the catalyst is selected from Laney nickel and activated charcoal.5. A process of claim 2, wherein R1 is ethyl and X is 5 chlorine.6. A process of claim 3,wherein R1 is ethyl and X is 5 chlorine.7. A process of claim 4, wherein R1 is ethyl and X is 5 chlorine.8. A process for preparing an lH indazol 3 ylacetic acid derivative of the formula EMI4.1 wherein R is a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group, and X is a hydrogen atom, a halogen atom or a lower alkoxy group, or its salt which is characterized by reacting a propionic acid derivative of the formula EMI4.2 wherein R1 and X are as defined above, and R2 B Method EMI5.1 wherein X is a hydrogen atom, a halogen atom, a lower alkoxy group, R1 is a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group, R1a is a lower alkyl group and R2 is an a acyl group. In this specification and claim, the term lower is intended to mean 2 group having 1 to 6 carbon atoms, unless otherwise indicated. A suitable example of lower alkyl group for R1 includes a straight or branched C1 to C6, preferably C1 to C4 and more preferably C1 to C2 alkyl group such as methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl, isobutyl, tert butyl and the like. The halogen atom for X includes fluorine, chlorine, bromine and iodine and preferably chlorine and bromine. A suitable example of alkoxy group for X includes C1 to C4 alkoxy such as methoxy, ethoxy, propoxy, buto and the like. 2 A suitable example of acyl for R includes a lower alkanoyl e.g. formal, acetyl, propionyl, butyryl etc. , a lower haloalkanoyl e.g. chloroacetyl, dichloroacetyl, trichloroacetyl etc. , a lower alko ycarbonyl e.g. methoxycarbonyl, ethoxycarbonylp propoxycarbonyl, butoxycarbonyl, isobutoxycarbonyl tert butoxycarbonyl etc. , a lower haloalkoxycarbonyl e.g. chloroethoxycarbonyl, dichloroethoxycarbonyl, trichloroethoxycarbonyl etc. , an aroyl e.g. benzoyl, toluoyl etc. , an aralkanoyl e.g. phenylacetyl, phenylpropionyl etc. and the like. A suitable example of a salt of lH indazol 3ylacetic acid derivative I includes a salt with an inorganic base, for example, a metal salt such as an alkali metal salt e.g. sodium salt, potassium salt etc. and alkaline earth metal salt e.g. calcium salt, magnesium salt, etc. or an ammonium salt. Detailed explanation of processes for preparation of lH indazol 3 ylacetic acid derivative I or its salt will be made in the following A A Re. Method A A l Compound II a Compound I This process is conducted by reacting an aminoacetic acid derivative 11 or its salt with a hydrazine compound. A hydrazine compound used in this reaction includes hydrazine preferably hydrazine hydrate , aryihydrazine e.g. phenylhydrazine etc. , allhydraie e.g. methylhydrazine etc. , hydrazide e.g.acethydrazide etc. and the liker or a salt thereof e.g. hydtochloride, sulfate, etc. . The reaction is usually carried out in an organic solvent such as water, alcohol e.g. methanol, ethanol, propanol, isopropyl alcohol etc. , tetrahydrofuran,dioxane, or other conventional solvent which does not adversely influence to the reaction or an optional mixture thereof. The reaction is preferably carried out in the presence of a base such as alkali metal hydroxide e.g. sodium hydroxide,potassium hydroxide etc. or ammonia and the like. In such a case, a hydrazine compound itself to be used in this process is basic, and therefore it is not always necessary to add said base to the reaction mixture. The reaction is preferably carried out in the presence of a catalyst such as activated charcoal,Raney nickel, palladium charcoal, platinum oxide, colloidal platinum or the like. Among such a catalyst, activated charcoal is a more suitable in this reaction. The reaction is ordinarily carried out at ambient temperature, under warming or under heating. Thus obtained lH indazol 3 ylacetic acid derivative I or its salt is isolated from the reaction mixture by a conventional manner. A 2 Compound I A Compound I This process relates to a so called if desired process and is conducted by reacting the lH indazol3 ylacetic acid derivative I or its salt with a lower alkanol of the formula R1OH III wherein Ra is as defined above. This process includes known one i.e. in case of the compound wherein X is a hydrogen atom or a halogen atom e.g. Japanese Patent Publication No.37270 1975 This process is conducted by reacting a compound I or its salt with a compound III . The compound III can be used as a solvent in this reaction. This reaction is preferably carried out in the presence of an inorganic acid such as hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid etc. A 3 Preparation of the starting compound II The starting compound II or its salt includes known compounds, i.e. ones wherein X is a hydrogen atom or a halogen atom c.f. Japanese Patent Application No. 82158 1975, Laid Open No. 5766 1977 and new compounds, i.e. ones wherein X is an alkoxy group, which can be prepared according to substantially the same method as described in the above Japanese PatentApplication. Alternatively, the aminoacetic derivative II or its salt prepared by the method as shown the following schemes. EMI9.1 or its salt wherein X is as defined above, R4 is a diacetoxymethyl group and R3 is a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group. In above definitions, suitable examples of lower alkanoic acid R3 COOH V is exemplified as formic acid, propionic acid, butylic acid, pivalic acid etc. Ammonium icn may be added in the form of ammonium salt of said lower alkanoic acid V or ammonia gas. The process from the compound CIV to the compound VI is preferably conducted under warming or heating if desired, with an addition of suitable solvent s . Thus obtained compound VI is subjected to hydrolysis usually without isolation thereof.Hydrolysis is conducted by conventional method, preferably, by an addition of an acid such as hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid etc. and preferably refluxed in hydrochloric acid. A suitable example of a salt of the amino acetic acid derivative II includes the same one mentioned above as a salt of lH indazol 3 ylacetic acid derivative I . In addition, acid addition salt is also included, suitable example of which is an inorganic acid salt e.g. hydrochloride, hydrobromide, sulfate, phosphate, carbonate, bicarbonate etc. , an organic carboxylic or sulfonic acid salt e.g. acetate, maleate, lactate, tartrate, mesylate, benzenesulfonate, tosylate, etc. , an amino acid salt e.g. arginine salt, aspartic acid salt, glutamic acid salt, lysine salt, serine salt, etc. and the like. B Re. Method B This process is conducted by reacting the propionic acid derivative II or its salt with aN nitrosating agent and then subjecting the nitrosated compound to a cyclization reaction. The N nitrosating agent is an agent which can be reacted with an acylamino type of nitrogen atom and suitable examples of such nitrosating agent includes nitrous acid, nitrous anhydride gas, nitrosyl chloride, alkyl nitrite e.g. isopentyl nitrite, butyl nitrite etc. and the like. This reaction is preferably conducted in an organic solvent such as acetic acid, acetic anhydride, chloroform, N,N dimethylformamide, dimethylsulfoxide, etc., under cooling. CB C2 Cyclization reaction Thus obtained N nitrosated compound is then subjected to cyclization reaction usually without isolation thereof from the reaction mixture. This reaction is usually conducted in an organic solvent such as benzene, toluene, chloroform, carbon tetrachloride, diethylether, N,N dimethylformamide, dimethylsulfoxide or the like at ambient temperature or under warming or heating. Thus obtained IH indazol 3 ylacetic acid derivative I o its salt of this invention is isolated from the reaction mixture by a conventional manner. B 3 Preparation of the starting compound II The starting compound II or its salt to be used in this process is new one and can be prepared by the following methods. B 3 1 a Preparation of the starting compound II a EMI12.1 wherein Ra, R2 and X are as defined above.Compound VII Compound CIX This process is conducted by acylating the compound VII with the compound VIII or its salt, or its reactive derivative Suitable reactive derivative of the compound VIII includes, for example, an acid halide, an acid anhydride, an activated ainide, an activated ester, and the like, and preferably acid halide such as acid chloride, acid bromide e.g. acetyl chloride, propionyl chloride, benzoyl chloride, ethoxycarbonyl chloride and the like. The reaction is usually carried out in a conventional solvent such as water, acetone, dioxane, acetonitrile, chloroform, benzene, methylene chloride, ethylene chloride, tetrahydrofuran, ethyl acetate, N,N dimethylformamide, pyridine or any other solvent which does not adversely influence to the reaction, or an optional mixture thereof. When the compound III is used in a form of free acid or salt in this reaction, the reaction is preferably carried out in the presence of a conditional condensing agent. This reaction is preferably carried out in the presence of a base such as alkalimetal e.g.sodium, etc. , alkalimetal or alkaliearth metal hydroxide e.g. sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, calcium hydroxide, etc. and the like. Among the starting compound VII , 6 chloro 1,2,3,4 tetrahydroquinoline 2 one is known and prepared by the method described in ChemischeBerichte vol. 60, page 858 864 1927 and other compounds are pareared substantially in the similar manner to that of the known compound. Compound IX Compound II a This process is conducted by reacting the compound IX with the compound CIII . This reaction is usually conducted by reacting the compound IX with an excess amount of the compound III , according to a process conventional ly applied for so called esterification with or without an additional other organic solvent such as diethyl ether, tetrahydrofuran, ethyl acetate, dimethylsulfoxide, N,N dimethylformamide or any other solvent which does not adversely influence the reaction. This reaction is conducted pre ferably in the presence of inorganic acid e.g. hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid etc. or an organic acid e.g. benzenesulfonic acid, trichloroacetic acid etc. . This reaction is conducted at ambient temperature or at the boiling temperature of the solvent used in the reaction. Thus obtained compound II a is isolated from the reaction mixture by a conventional manner. B 3 2 b Preparation of the starting compound II ti.e. compound II a and compound IIb EMI14.1 EMI14.2 halogenating EMI15.1 EMI15.2 hydrolysis decarboxylationEMI15.3 EMI15.4 esterifyingEMI15.5 wherein R1, R2 and X are as defined above, S S X is halogen, and R5 and Rb are lower alkyl, ar lower alkyl or aryl. Compound X Compound CXI This process is conducted by reacting the compound X with a halogenating agent. This starting compound X includes known and new one. Among known compounds, ethyl N 4 chloro 2chloromethylphenyl carbamate is prepared by a method described in Journal of Medicinal Chemistry vol. 12, page 426 C1969 , and other compounds are prepared substantially in the similar manner to that of the known compound. The halogen atom for X includes fluorine, chlorine, bromine and iodine. This reaction is conducted by reacting the compound CX with a halogenating agent such as sulfuryl halide e.g. sulfuryl chloride, sulfuryl bromide, etc. and the like. In case that a halogen is used as a halogenating agent, the reaction may be preferably initiated by irradiation with ultraviolet ray or by addition with a catalytic amount of peroxide compound e.g. benzoyperoxide, etc. and the like. This reaction is usually conducted in a conventional solvent which does not give adverse influence to the reaction. Compound XI Compound II b This reaction is conducted by reacting the compound XI with an malonic acid ester XII to produce the compound XIII according to a method which is well known and conventionally used for so called malonic ester synthesis. The preferred malonic acid ester of the formula XII is exemplified by dimethyl malonate, diethyl malonate, dipropyl malonate, methyl ethyl malonate, dibenzyl malonate, diphenethyl malonate, etc. The reaction is conducted in an organic solvent with a base. The organic solvent used in this reaction is exemplified by alkaline metal e. g.sodium, potassium etc. alkaline metal alkoxide sodium metoxide, sodium ethoxide etc. , alkaline metal hydroxide e.g. sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide etc. Suitable solvent used in the reaction is exemplified by methanol, ethanol, tetrahydrofuran dioxane, N,N dimethylformamide, dimethylsulfoxide, diethylcarbonate, or a mixture thereof. The reaction is conducted at ambient temperature or under heating.Compound XIII Compound II b This process is conducted by hydrolyzing the compound XIII and followed by the decarboxylation. The hydrolysis is conducted in a conventional manner such as a method using an acid acid hydrolysis or a base basic hydrolysis . The decarboxylation is conventionally conducted by heating the hydrolyzed product with or without any isolation thereof under neutral or acidic condition. It is noted that the acidic hydrolysis may usually be accompanied with a spontaneous decarboxylation to produce the compound II b or its salt from the compound CXIII in one batch operation. The compound II a can be prepared by esterifying thus obtained compound II b or its salt with the compound III according to a conventional esterification method. Thus obtained compounds II a and II b are isolated from the reaction mixture by a conventional manner. Suitable example of a salt of a propionic acid derivative II includes the same one mentioned above as a salt of lH indazole 3 ylacetic acid derivative I . The following examples are given for illustrating the present invention in more detail. Example 1 Preparation of 5 chloro lH iadazol 3 ylacetic acid Hydrazine mono hydrate 2.5g was added to a solution of 3 amino 3 5 chloro 2 nitrophenyl propionic acid 1Sg in 5 aqueous sodium hydroxide solution 75ml . Raney nickel catalyst about lOmg was added to the solution at 80 C with vigorous stirring and the mixture was stirred at 80 850C for 10 minutes.After additional Raney nickel 10 to 20mg was added to the mixture, the stirring was continued at the same temperature until evolutions of nitrogen gas ceased it took about 20 minutes. . The reaction mixture was filtered. The filtrate was acidified to pH 2 with hydrochloric acid, and cooled to afford crystals, which were filtered and washed with water.The crystalswero dissolved in 5 warm aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 75ml and the solution was filtered, acidified to pH 2 with hydrochloric acid and cooled to afford a pale yellow crystals. The pale yellow crystals were collected by filtration, washed with water and dried to give 5 chloro lHindazol 3 ylacetic acid 12g, yield 93 . M.p.209 2100C dec. Example 2 Preparation of 6 chloro lH indazol 3 ylacetic acid 1 Preparation of 3 amino 3 4 chloro 2 nitrophenyl propionic acid a,a Diacetoxy 4 chloro 2 nitrotolueme lOg , malonic acid 4.8g and ammonium acetate 6.8g were dissolved in a mixture of formic acid 5.2ml and acetic acid l0ml . The solution was stirred at 80 85Qc for 2 hours, 90 950C for 2 hours, 95 1000C for 1 hour and then heated under reflux for 1 hour. Then, to the reaction mixture was added 20 aqueous hydrochloric acid solution 30ml and the solution was heated under reflux for 5 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated to dryness under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in hot water 50ml , treated with activated charcoal and filtered.The filtrate was diluted with ethanol 50ml and adjusted to pH 5 with aqueous ammonia and cooled. The resultant crystals were collected by filtration, washed with water and dried to afford 3 amino 3 4 chloro 2nitrophenyl propionic acid 6.5g, yield 76 as pale yellow crystals M.p. 211 2130C dec. . 2 Preparation of 6 chloro lH indazol 3 ylacetic acid Hydrazine mono hydrate l.Sg was added to a solution of 3 amino 3 4 chloro 2 nitrophenyl propionic acid 7.5g in 6 aqueous sodium hydroxide solution 42 ml . Raney nickel catalyst about lOmg was added to the solution at 750C with vigorous stirring and the mixture was stirred at 75 800C for 10 minutes.After additional Raney nickel about long was added to the mixture, the stirring was continued at the same temperature until evolution of nitrogen gas ceased it took about 20 minutes. . The resultant mixture was treated in substantially the same manner as described in Example 1 to afford 6 chloro lHindazol 3 ylacetic acid 5.9g, yield 91 , as colorless crystals M.p. 180 1820C dec. . Example 3 Preparation of 4 chloro lH indazol 3 ylacetic acid Hydrazine mono hydrate O.5g was added to a solution of 3 amino 3 2 chloro 6 nitrophenyl propionic acid 4g in 5 aqueous sodium hydroxide solution 25ml . Raney nickel catalyst about 5mg was added to the solution at 800C with vigorous stirring and the mixture was stirred at 800C for 15 minutes.After additional catalyst 5mg was added to the mixture, the stirring was continued at the same temperature until evolution of nitrogen gas ceased it took about 30 minutes. . The resultant mixture was treated in substantially the same manner as described in Example 1 to give 4 chloro IH indazol3 yl acetic acid lg, yield 30.0 as colorless crystals M.p. 205 206 C dec. .Example 4 Preparation of 7 methoxy lH indazol 3 yl acetic acid l Preparation of 3 amino 3 3 methoxy 2 nitrophenyl propionic acid 3 Methoxy 2 nitrobenzaldehyde 9.3g , malonic acid 6.9g and ammonium acetate 9.8g were dissolved in a mixture of formic acid loll and acetic acid 20ml . The solution was stirred at 55 600C for 2 hours, at 90 950C for 3 hours and then heated under reflux for an hour. Then, to the reaction mixture was added 20 aqueous hydrochloric acid solution 30ml and the resulting solution was heated under reflux for 2 hours. The resultant solution was concentrated to dryness under reduced pressure and the residue was dissolved in hot water looms , treated with activated charcoal and filtered.The filtrate was diluted with ethanol loom and adjusted to pH 5 with aqueous ammonia and cooled to give crystals. The crystals were collected by filtration, washed with water and dried to give 3 amino 3 3methoxy 2 nitrophenyl propionic acid 8.9g, yield 72 as pale yellow crystals M.p. 2180C dec, . 2 Preparation of 7 methoxy lH indazol 3 ylaceti,c acid Hydrazine mono hydrate 0.5g was added to a solution of 3 amino 3 3 methoxy 2 nitrophenyl propionic acid 2g in 4.58 aqueous sodium hydroxide solution 21ml . Raney nickel catalyst about Smg was added to the solution at 75 800C with vigorous stirring and the mixture was stirred at the same temperature for 15 minutes. The resultant mixture was treated substantially in the same manner as described inExample 1 to give 7 methoxy lH indazoi 3.ylacetic acid 0.9g, yield 52.48 colorless crystals M.P. 180 181 C dec. .Example 5 Preparation of ethyl 5 chloro lH lfldazol 3 ylacetate Cl Preparation of 3 amino 3 5 chloro Z nTtrophenyl propionic acid Formic acid 100g , 5 chloro 2 nitrobenzaldehyde lOOg and malonic acid 73.2g were mixed and heated at 40 450C. To the solution was added ammonium formate 85.2g at the same temperature. The solution was stirred at 60 700C for 1 hour and at 90 950C for 4 hours, and then heated at 1150C under reflux for 1 hour. To the solution were added 358 aqueous hydrochloric acid solution 192g and water 83ml , and the solution was heated at 1100C under reflux for 1 hour.The resultant solution was cooled to 90 950C, and then to the solution were added water 320ml and methyl isobutyl ketone 320g . The mixture was stirred at 50 600C and the aqueous layer was separated. The methyl isobutyl ketone layer was washed with water lOOg and the aqueous layer was combined to the above one. The combined aqueous layers were adjusted to pH5 6 with 485 aqueous sodium hydroxide solution below 500 cooled and left to stand over night below 100C. The obtained crystals were collected by filtration and washed with water 300ml to give 3 amino 3 5chloro 2 nitrophenyl propionic acid log, yield 77 . M.p. 209 2110C dec. . 2 Preparation of 5 chloro indazol 3 ylacetic acid 3 Amino 3 5 chloro 2 nitrophenyl propionic acid 42.8g and sodium hydroxide 21g were dissolved in water 195ml . To the solution was added activated charcoal 4.7g and hydrazine mono hydride 18.5g at 30 400C and the mixture was stirred at the same temperature for 15 minutes. Then, the solution was heated to 60 650C and stirred at the same temperature for I hour and 80 850C for 3 hours. To the reaction mixture was added water 156ml and the resulting mixture was added dropwise to 35 aqueous hydrochloric acid solution 081g over the course of 30 minutes.The obtained crystals were collected by filtration, washed with water 200ml and dried to give 5 chloroindazol 3 ylacetic acid 37.0g . 3 Preparation of ethyl 5 chloro lH indazol 3 ylacetate The above obtained 5 chloro lH indazol 3 ylacetic acid 37g was added to a mixture of ethanol 222m1 and sulfuric acid Cl.8g . The mixture was heated under reflux for 6 hours and then cooled to below lO0C. To the reaction mixture was added 24 aqueous sodium hydroxide solution 5.4ml and the resulting mixture was adjusted to pH 4 5. The activated charcoal was filtered and washed with ethanol. The filtrate and the washings were combined and concentrated under reduced pressure. The concentrate was cooled to 25 300C, to which sodium bicarbonate 3g was added. After cooled below 50C, to the mixture was added water 230ml little by little over the course of 2 hours. The obtained crystals were collected by filtration, washed with ice water 80ml and then dried to give ethyl 5 chloro lH indazol 3ylacetic acetate as crystals 33.4g, total yield from 5 chloro 2 nitrobenzaldehyde 68 . M.p. 76 77 C. Example 6 Preparation of ethyl 5 5 chloro lH indazol 3 ylacetate 1 Preparation of ethyl 3 2 benzamido 5 chlorophenyl propionate Benzoyl chloride 3.0g was added dropwise to a solution of 6 chloro 1,2,3,4 tetrahydroquinolin 2one 2.0g in pyridine 40ml with stirring. The mixture was heated under reflux at 140 1500C for 3 hours. The resultant solution was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in chloroform lOml and washed with 5 aqueous hydrochloric acid solution lOml . The organic layer was separated, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, and concentrated under reduced pressure.The residue was dissolved in ethanol 70ml saturated with dry hydrogen chloride and heated under reflux for 1 hour. The resultant solution was evaporated under reduced pressure and the residue was dissolved in a mixture of benzene and n hexane 1 2 and crystallized to give colorless crystals of ethyl 3 2 benzamido 5 chlorophenyl propionate 2.7g .M.p. 105 1060C. N.M.R. CC14 6 ppm 10.60 1H,s , 8.1 7.7 2H,m , 7.68 lH,d,J 9Hz , 7.6 7.1 3H,m , 7.08 1H,dd,J 2Hz, J 9Hz , 7.04 lH,d,J 2Hz , 4.03 2H,q,J 7Hz , 2.4 3.1 4H,m , 1.14 3H,t,J 7Hz . 2 Preparation of ethyl 5 chloro lH indazol 3 ylacetate Ethyl 3 2 benzamido 5 chlorophenyl propionate 1.5g was suspended in a mixture of acetic anhydride 2ml and acetic acid 2ml . Nitrous anhydride gas which was generated by dropwise addition of nitric acid d.1.47, 4ml to sodium nitrite 4g was introduced to the suspension at 0 50C for 15 minutes, and then the resulting dark green solution was stirred at the same temperature for 40 minutes.The solution was poured onto ice 50g and stirred at ambient temperature for 1 hour. The resultant mixture was extracted with benzene 50ml and washed with two portions of water lOml . To the extract was added methanol 3ml and the resulting solution was left to stand at ambient temperature for 2 hours.Then, the solution was washed with water 2 times , dried over calcium chloride and filtered. The filtrate was heated under reflux for 7 hours and evaporated to dryness to give oily residue. The residue was dissolved in ethanol, treated with activated charcoal and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was crystallized from diisopropyl ether. The obtained crystals were recrystallized from diisopropyl ether to give colorless crystals of ethyl 5 chloro lH indazol 3 ylacetate 700mg . M.p. 76 77 C. Example 7 Preparation of methyl 5 chloro lH indazol 3 ylacetate I Preparation of ethyl N 4 chloro 2 chloromethylphenyl carbamate Ethyl N t4 chloro 2 methylphenyl carbamate 40g was suspended to a solution of chlorine 18.5g in dry carbon tetrachloride 250ml . The suspension was stirred under the irradiation of ultraviolet ray liberated from a high pressure mercury lamp at ambient temperature for 1 hour. The product which was precipitated in the reaction mixture was collected by filtration and crystallized from a mixture of ethyl acetate and n hexane to give ethyl N 4 chloro2 chloromethylphenyl carbamate 29g . M.P. 137 1390C. Analysis Calculated for CloHllNCl202 C 48.41 , H 4.47 , N 5.65 , C1 28.58 found C 48.66 , H 4.4 , N 5.64 , Cl 28.62 2 Preparation of Diethyl 5 chloro 2 ethoxycarbonylaminobenzylEmalonate Ethyl N 4 chloro 2 chloromethylphenyl carbamate 28.5g was added to a solution of diethyl malonate 29g and sodium hydroxide 6.5g in ethanol 300ml . The mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 15 hours. The resultant solution was evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in benzene 300ml , washed with water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was crystallized from benzene and recrystallized from diisopropyl ether to give colorless needles of diethyl 2 5 chloro 2 ethoxycarbonylphenyl methyl3malonate 15.0g .M.p. 86 880C. 3 Preparation of 5 chloro 2 ethoxycarbonylaminobenzyl malonic acid Diethyl 5 chloro 2 ethoxycarbonylaminobenzyl malonate 19g and barium hydroxide Ba OH 28H2O 19g were suspended to a mixture of methanol loom and water 50ml . The suspension was stirred at ambient temperature for 30 minutes to give precipitates. The precipitates were collected by filtration and suspended to water. The suspension was acidified to pH 1.0 with hydrochloric acid and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with water, dried over anhydrous sulfate, filtered and evaporated under reduced pressure.The residue was crystallized from the mixture of ethyl acetate and benzene to give colorless crystals of 5 chloro 2ethoxycarbonylaminobenzyl malonic acid 14.4g . M.P. 133 136 C dec. . N.M.R. DMSO d6 d ppm 8.95 1H,s , 7.2 3H,m , 4.13 2H,q,J 7Hz , 3.62 lH,t,J 8Hz , 3.10 2H,d,J 8Hz , 1.25 3H,t,J 7Hz . 4 Preparation of 3 5 chloro 2 ethoxycarbonylaminophenyl propionic acid The crystals of 5 chloro 2ethoxycarbonylaminobenzyl malonic acid 14.4g were heated at 140 1450C on oil bath for 40 minutes. The resulting crystallized mass, after cooling, was dissolved in 5 aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution lSOml and the solution was washed with ethyl acetate and acidified to pH 1 with hydrochloric acid to precipitate crystals. The crystals were separated by filtration, washed with water and dissolved in hot ethanol. The solution was treated with activated charcoal and filtered. Addition of water to the filtrate gave colorless needles of 3 5 chloro 2 ethoxycarbonylaminophenyl propionic acid ll.lg . M.P. 186 1870C. N.M.R. DM.O d6 ppm 8.96 1H,s , 7.3 3H,m , 4.12 2H,q,J 6.5Hz , 2.67 4H,m , l.22 3H,t,J 6 .5Hz . 5 Preparation of methyl 3 5 chloro 2 ethoxycarbon rlaminophenyl propionate 3 C5 Chloro 2 ethoxycarbonylaminophenyl propionic acid 9.5g was dissolved in a mixture of dry methanol 200ml and sulfuric acid 0.5g and stirred at ambient temperature for 24 hours. After neutralization with triethylamine lg the resultant solution was concentrated under reduced pressure. The oily residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate loom , washed with 5 aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, filtered and evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was crystallized from a mixture of benzene and n hexane to give colorless needles of methyl 3 5 chloro 2ethoxycarbonylaminophenyl propionate lOg . M.p. 70 720C. Analysis Calculated for C13H16 NO4Cl C 54.65 , H 5.64 , N 4.90 , C1 12.418 found C 54.67 , H 5.65 , N 4.78 , C1 12.43 6 Preparation of methyl 5 chloro lH indazol 3 ylacetate Methyl 3 5 chloro 2 ethoxycarbonylaminophenyl propionate 5g was suspended in a mixture of acetic anhydride 6ml and acetic acid 8ml .Nitrous anhydride gas which was generated by dropwise addition of nitric acid d. 1.47, 7ml to sodium nitrite 5g was introduced to the suspension at 5 C for 1.5 hours, and then the mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 30 minutes. The resultant dark green solution was poured onto ice clog and stirred at the same temperature for 1 hour. The resultant mixture was extracted with two portions of benzene 70ml . The combined extracts were added to methanol 5ml and left to stand at ambient temperature for 1 hour. Then, the solution was washed with water 2 times , dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtered. The filtrate was heated under reflux for 16 hours and evaporated to dryness to give oily residue. The residue was dissolved in methanol, treated with activated charcoal and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was crystallized from diisopropyl ether. The obtained crystals were recrystallized from diisopropyl ether to give colorless needles of methyl 5 chloro lHindazol 3 ylacetate 2.6g . M.p 87 880C. N.M.R. CDC13 6 ppm 7.64 1H,d,J 2Hz , 7.23 2H,m , 4.00 2H,s , 3.72 3H,s .