# Page turning device.

## Abstract
A page turning device comprises a bi directional drive and a page turning unit 10 including an arm 13 of crescent shape having an outer convex surface engageable with the underface of the uppermost page on one side of the book center line 5 for turning same when the unit is driven in one direction, and an inner concave surface engageable with the uppermost page on the other side of the book center line for turning the page when the unit is driven in the opposite direction. The unit preferably has two or more such arms equally spaced about the circumference of the unit. The illustrated device includes two of such page turning units, one serving to turn the pages and the other serving to pick them up according to the drive direction. Each unit may include a helical recess 12 for pre loading the pages, or an arcing finger 38a, 38b for arcing each page before being engaged by the respective arm.

## Claims
CLAIhLS 1. A page turning device for turning the pages of a book bound along its center line, comprising, a holder for the book a rotatable page turning unit supported on said holder along one horizontal edge at one side of said book center line for individually turning the pages and a drive for rotating said pageturning unit characterized in that said drive is bidirectional for selectively driving said page turning unit in either the forward direction or the reverse direction and in that said page turning unit includes an arm of crescent shape having an outer convex surface engageable with the underface of the uppermost page on one side of the book center line for turning same when the page turning unit is driven by said drive in the forward direction, said crescent shape arm having an inner concave surface engageable with the underface of the uppermost page on the other side of the book centerline for turning same when the page turning unit is driven by said drive in the reverse direction. 2. The device according to Claim 1, wherein said holder includes a backing member for supporting the back of the book, and a vertical arm pivotably mounted in front of the center line of said backing member and engageable with the book along its center line for clamping the book between it and the backing member. 3. The device according to Claim 1, further including a pair of retainer arms on opposite sides of the book center line for engaging the outer ends of the pages and means for coupling said retainer arm to said drive to move them to an open position disengaged from the book pages at the beginning of a page turning operation, and to move them to a closed position engaging the book pages at the end of a page turning operation. 4. The device according to Claim 1, wherein said page turning unit includes a helical recess terminating at one end in said arm, and at the opposite end in an annular recess such that a number of pages of the book may be preloaded in said helical recess and the remaining pages of the book may be retained in said annular recess. 5. The device according to Claim 4, wherein the end of said helical recess bounding said annular recess is open and has a pitch larger than the remainder of the helical recess for self londing the latter recess with pages from the non preloaded pages of the book during the operation of the device. 6. The device according to Claim 1, further including means for arcing the page to be turned during a page turning operation, comprising a finger engageable with the outer end of the page to be turned, and means coupling said finger to said drive such that at the beginning of the page turning operation said finger moves the outer edge of the page inwardly toward the book center line to cause the page to be arced for receiving thereunder the page turning arm. 7. The device according to Claim 1, wherein said page turning unit includes at least two page turning arms extending in the radial direction from the axis of rotation of said page turning unit and equally spaced about the circumference thereof. 8. The device according to Claim 1, further including a second rotatable page turning unit supported on said holder on the opposite side of the book centerline and coupled to said drive, said second page turning unit being of like construction as the first mentioned one and oriented such that rotating both units in one direction of said drive causes the first mentioned unit to turn the pages from one side of the book center line to the other, while the second unit picks up the pages so turned and rotating both units in the opposite direction causes said second unit to turn the pages from the opposite side of said book center line while the first mentioned unit picks up the pages so turned. 9. The device according to Claim 8, further including a rack for each of said page turning units means for selectively coupling said rack to the drive for selectively moving one rack in one direction, or the other rack in the opposite direction, according to the direction of operation of the drive a sprocket for each of said page turning units means for coupling each of said sprockets to one of said racks so as to be driven thereby when the rack is driven by the drive and means for coupling one sprocket to the other sprocket such that the rotation of one by its respective rack also rotates the other. 10. The device according to Claim 1, wherein said drive is foot operated and includes a presettable selector for preselecting the direction of rotation of the page turning during a page turning operation.

## Description
PACF mJRNINC DEVICE The present invention relates to page turning devices, such as are used for turning the pages of bound music pads or other bound books. A number of page turning devices have been proposed, but insofar as I am aware, none have gained any significant widespread use.. An object of the present invention is to provide a new page turning device having a number of improvements, as will be described more particularly below. According to a broad aspect of the present invention, there is provided a page turning device for turning the pages of a book bound along its center line, comprising a holder for the book a rotatable pageturning unit supported on the holder along one horizontal edge at one side of the book center line for individually turning the pages and a drive for rotating the pageturning unit characterized in that the drive is bidirectional for selectively driving the page turning unit in either the forward direction or the reverse direction and in that the page turning unit includes an arm of crescent shape having an outer convex surface engageable with the underface of the uppermost page on one side of the book center line for turning same when the page turning unit is driven by the drive in the forward direction, the crescent shape arm having an inner concave surface engage able with the underface of the uppermost page on the other side of the book center line for turning same when the page turning unit is driven by the drive in the reverse direction. According to another feature of the present invention, the page turning unit may include a helical recess terminating at one end in the arm, and at the opposite end in an annular recess such that a number of pages of the book may be pre loaded in the helical recess and the remaining pages of the book may be retained in the annular recess. According to another feature, the device may include means for arcing the page to be turned during a page turning operation, comprising a finger engageable with the outer end of the page to be turned, and means coupling the finger to the drive such that at the beginning of the page turning operation the finger moves the outer edge of the page inwardly toward the book center line to cause the page to be arced for receiving thereunder the page turning arm. According to a still further feature, the device may include a second rotatable page turning unit supported on the holder on the opposite side of the book centerline and coupled to the drive, the second page turning unit being of like construction as the first mentioned one and oriented such that rotating both units in one direction of the drive causes the first mentioned unit to turn the pages from one side of the book center line to the other, while the second unit picks up the pages so turned and rotating both units in the opposite direction causes the second unit to turn the pages from the opposite side of the book center line while the firstmentioned unit picks up the pages so turned. Further features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description below. The invention is herein described, by way of example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, wharein Fig. 1 is a front elevational view illustrating one form of page turning device constructed in accordance with the present invention Fig. 2 is an enlarged exploded view, partly in section, illustrating one of the page turning units in the device of Fig.l Fig. 3 is an exploded view illustrating the main components in the device of Fig. 1 Fig. 3a is a fragmentary view illustrating two modified page turning units which may be used in the device of Figs. 1 3 Fig. 4 illustrates the drive mechanism for use in the device of Figs. 1 3 Figs. 5a 5c illustrate the operation of the page turning unit in the devices of Figs. 1 4, Fig, 5b illustrating a right to left page turning operation andFig. Sc illustrating a left to right page turning operation Figs. 6a 6d illustrate the operation of the page arcing means in the.devices of Figs. 1 4 for arcing a page during a page turning operation Fig. 7 illustrates another page turning device similar to that of Figs. 1 4 but including a modified holder and Fig. 8 illustrates a modified, four arm pageturning unit that may be used in the described pageturning devices. The device illustrated in Fig. 1 comprises a holder, generally designated 2, for holding the book 4 whose pages are to be turned. The device illustrated inFig. 1 is particularly useful for turning the pages of a music pad, but may be used with respect to other books bound along the book center line 5, as illustrated.In the example shown in Fig. 1, the page turning device is supported on a stand 6 and is foot operated by a foot pedal drive 8 alternatively, it could be operated by an electric motor drive actuated by a foot switch 9. The illustrated device includes two pageturning units, designated lOa and lOb, respectively, inFigs. 1 and 3, supported on the book holder 2 on opposite sides of the book center line 5. The construction of each of the page turning units is more partiallar illustrated inFig. 2, and is thercin designated 10. It includes a sae loading section 11 formed with two parallel, helical recesses or grooves 12, 12 , each terminating in an arm 13, 13 of substantially crescent shape. Each unit 10 further includes a sprocket wheel 14 at its opposite end for rotating the unit about an axis 15.It will be seen that each of the page tuI1ing arms extends in the radial direction from the axis of rotation 15 with its crescent shape providing an outer surface of convex confiquration, and an inner surface of concave configuration. As will be explained more particularl below, the convex alter face of each arm engages the pages on one side of the book center line for turning the pages in one direction, and the concave inner face of each arm engages the pages on the other side of the book center line for turning the pages in the opposite direction. At the inner end of the two helical recesses 12, 12 the unit is formed with an annular recess 16 of substantially greater width than the pitch of the helical recesses, for receiving the remaining pages of the book 4 which are not pre loaded into the helical recesses 12, 12 . smular recess 16 is of adjustable width, enabling it to be prefixed according to the thichess of the book 4, and particularly according to the number of pages of the book which are not pre loaded in the helical recesses 12, 12 . For this purpose, each unit 10 is made of two parts, namely one part including the helical recesses 12, 12 and radial arms 13, 13 and a separable part including the sprocket 14. The first part terminates in a cylindrical pin 20 formed with an axial bore 22, and is telescopically received within the second part in the form of an annular sleeve 24 fixed to the sprocket wheel 14. Sleeve 24 is formed with an axially extending pin 26 received within bore 22 of pin 20. The two parts are fixed in the desired position bv a threaded fastener 28, and are keyed to each other against rotation, e.g. by bore 22 and pin 26 both being of square cross section. The holder 2 of the illustrated page turning device includes a bottom horizontal leg 30 for supporting the book 4, and a backing member 32 Fig. 3 forming a backing wall for supporting the back of the book. In addition, the holder includes an arm 34 pivotably mounted on the horizontal leg 30 in front of the center of the backing member 32 and engageable with the book 4 along its center line 5 for clamping the book between it and the backing member. Arm 34 is illustrated in Fig. 3 as being in its open horizontal position for receiving the book 4, this arm being pivotable to a vertical position to engage the book along its center line 5, and thereby to firmly clamp the book between it and backing member 32 of the holder. Fig. 3a illustrates a preferred modification in the construction of the page turning units, therein designated lOma, limb. In this modification, the two helical recesses 12m, 12m connecting the page turning arms 13m, 13m of each unit to its annular recess corresponding to 15 in Figs 2 and 3 for receiving the nonpre loaded pages of the book, are open and have a pitch larger than the remainder of the helical recesses. Such an arrangment permits the helical recesses to self load with one of the non pre loaded pages, during each pageturning operation, so that the device can continue to operate even when all the pre loaded pages have been turned. The illustrated page turning device further includes a pair of retainer arms, 36a, 36b, at the outer ends of the pages on opposite sides of the book centerline. These retainer arms are operated by the drive to retain the book in its open condition. As indicated earlier, the helical recesses 12, 12 on each of the page turning units 10 are provided for pre loading the book pages to be turned, When these helical recesses are omitted, it is desirable to include pagearcing means cooperable with the arms of the page turning device to arc the pages and thereby to assure that the arms of these units will engage the under face of each page to be turned.The latter page arcing means comprises a pair of fingers 38a, 38b engageable with the outer end of each of the two opened pages at a point adjacent to its lower horizontal edge supported on ledge 30, which fingers are movable towards the book center line, for arcing the respective page and a further pair of fingers 40a, 40b each engageable with the opened page at a point thereof between the point of engagement of fingers 38a, 38b and the book center line 5, for retaining the page in place during the above described inner movement of the fingers 38a, 38b in order to produce an arcing of the page.Fingers 40a, 40b can be omitted in many cases, as will be described below. The drive for moving all the foregoing elements is schematically illustrated in Fig. 4, wherein it will be seen that the foot pedal 8 is coupled, by a link 50 extending through the stand 6, to mechanism disposed within a housing 52 at the upper end of the stand 6. The lat . ter mechanism includes a selector knob 54 which may be manually moved to one of two positions in order to preselect the direction of page turning. Thus, moving knob 54 to the LR position illustrated in Fig. 1 effects a turning of the pages in the left to right direction, and moving knob 54 to the RL position effects a turning of the pages in the right to left direction. As shown particularly in Fig. 4, selector knob 54 includes a coupling element 54 positionable, according to the position of the knob, to couple either a first stem 56a, or a second stem 56b, to link 50 of the foot pedal drive 8, so that the selected stem is depressed, against the action of its spring 58a, 58b, by the depression of the foot pedal 8. Link 50 is also coupled to the two retainer arms 36a, 36b, so as to open both retainer arms when the foot pedal 8 is depressed at the beginning of a Page t 1Ting operation, and to reclose the arms when the pedal is released at the end of a page turnin operation. The coupling between link 50 and the retainer arms 36a, 36b is schematically shown in Fig. 4 as including a first belt 60 fixed at one end to the upper end of stem 50, and at the opposite end to a dnim 62 on which it is windable, and two further belts 64 each fixed at one end to drum 62 and at the opposite end to two pulleys 66 coupled to the two above mentioned retainer arms 36a, 36b, the latter being spring urged to arm closed positions illustrated in Fig. 4. The two depressable stems 56a, 56b are each counled to the sprocket 14a, 14b of its respective page turning unit lOa, lOb, via a mechanism, scllematically illustrated in Fig. 4, as including a pulley belt 70a, 70b fixed at one end to the respective stem 56a, 56b a rack 72a, 72b fixed to the opposite end of the pulley and an intermediate gear 74a, 74b interposed between each rack 72a, 72b and its sprocket wheel 14a, 14b. The two racks 72a, 72b are normally retained in their illustrated outermost positions by springs 76a, 76b but each rack, as selected by selector knob 54, is movable inwardly towards the book center line 5 upon depression of the foot pedal 8 to rotate its respective sprocket wheel 14a, 14b.Both sprocket wheels are coupled together by a belt 78 so that the rotation of one ill also effect the rotation of the other in the same direction but the direction in ltich both are rotated by the depression of the foot pedal 8 depends on the position of the direction selector knob 54. The intermediate gears 74a, 74b coupling the racks 72a, 72b to their respective page turning units lOa, lOb are each rotatably mounted within an elongated slot 80a, 80b, and are each normally urged, by a spring 82a, 82b, out of engagement with their respective sprocket wheels. However, when one of the racks e.g., 72a is moved inwardly by the depression of foot pedal 8, the rack also moves its gear e.g., 74a towards its respective sprocket wheel e.g., 14a , whereby the gear becomes effective to couple the moved rack to the sprocket wheel but as soon as the rack has completed its inward driving stroke and starts to return outwardly to its normal position, its gear moves away from the sprocket wheel, thereby decoupling the latter from the rack during this return stroke.Accordingly, during each operation of the device, only one rack 72a or 72b will be positively driven by the foot pedal drive 8, but both of the sprockets 14a, 14b will be driven so that the arms of the two units driven by the sprocket wheels 14a, 14b will also be driven, the direction depending upon the selector knob 54. The two fingers 38a, 40a are coupled to their respective rack 72a such that when the rack is actuated, the two fingers are moved in synchronism to produce an arc in the page to be turned, in order to facilitate the entry of the respective page turning arm e.g. 13ma of Fig. 3a under the page to be turned at the beginning of the page turning operation. Both fingers 38a and 40a are coupled to their respective rack 72a by a coupling schematically indicated at 84a and 86a. In order to permit the arc producing finger 38a to accommodate different sized books, it preferably is mounted on an arm 88a see Fig. 3 which is adjustable by loosening a threaded fastener 90a, to permit it to be preset with respect to the book center line 5 according to the size of the book to be clamped to the holder. A similar arrangement producing a similar operation is provided with respect to fingers 38b and 40b coupled to rack 72b so as to produce an arc in the opposite page upon the depression of foot pedal 8 when the direction selector 54 is set to effect a right toleft turning of the pages. Preferably, the fingers 38a, 38b, as well as 40a, 40b, are made of transparent plastic. The operation of the device of Figs. 1 4 will be understood by reference to the diagrams of Figs. Sa Sc and 6a 6d. Fig. 5b illustrates the operation of the pageturning unit lOb to effect a right to left turning of the pages, and the diagrams of Figs. 6a 6d illustrate the movement of the fingers 38b and 40b during this operation this operation is produced when the direction selector 54 is set to the RL Fig. 1 position and the foot pedal 8 is depressed. In the normal condition of the illustrated device, the two retainer arms 36a, 36b, and the pagearcing fingers 38a, 38b and 40a, 40b are all in their closed positions spring pressed against the open pages of the book. At the beginning of the depression of the foot pedal with selector 54 in the RL position, rack 72b Fig. 4 begins to move inwardly towards its sprocket wheel 14b. At the beginning of this movement, its finger 38b Fig. 6a begins to move inwardly towards the book center line. This causes the page to arc, as shown inFig. 6b, permitting the page turning arm 13b to enter the space between the upper arced page and the underlying page. As soon as the arm has entered this space, both fingers 40b and 38b disengage from the page Fig.6c , permitting the arm to start to turn the page toward the book center line. At this time, inner finger 40b returns to engage the underlying page Fig. 6d , while arm 13b of unit lOb comes into position behind the page being turned and begins to turn the page toward the book center line 5. As the page approaches the center line, an arm 13 of the other unit 10a comes behind the page, picks it up, and completes the turning movement. At the end of the page turning operation, the page arcing fingers 38a, 38b, 40a, 40b return into engagement with the open page. The retaining arms 36a, 36b move out of engage . ment with the book pages at the beginning of the pageturning operation, and return into engagement with them at the end of the page turning operation. It will be appreciated that the convex outer surface of arm 13b of unit lOb engages the underface of the page being turned and starts the turning of the page, while the concave inner face of arm 13a of unit 10a picks up the page as it approaches the book center line 5 and completes the page turning operation, as shown inFig. 5b. When the direction selector 54 is set to the LR Fig. 1 position, the same operation occurs, except that the left unit 10a starts the page turning operation, and the right unit 10b completes it, as schematically indicated in Fig. 5c. It will be appreciated that both units 10a, 10b may therefore be used for turning the pages in either direction, the direction being selected by the selector 54. However, the bi directional turning of the pages can also be effected by the use of only one unit, 10a or 10b, together with the page arcing fingers 38a or 38b.Thus, if, e.g., only unit lOb is provided, the pagearcing finger 38b can be actuated as described above, i.e.counter clockwise, in order to arc each page un that part right part in Figs. 5a 5c and Fig. 6a 6d of the book center line 5 in order to enable the outer convex surface of the respective arm 13b to engage the page and to turn it, the arm in this case being extended so as to project substantially past the book center line and thereby to complete the page turning operation itself.On the other hand, if the pages are to be turned in the opposite direction, unit 10b would be rotated in the opposite direction i.e., clockwise and would cooperate with the page arcing finger 38a on the opposite side left of the book center line, the latter arcing the page at the beginning of the page turning operation to assure that the concave inner face of the arm engages the page to be turned and turns it during the continued rotation of the unit 10b. It will also be appreciated that in either case a fingers 40a, 40b may be omitted, in which case the arcing of the respective page would between the resepctive fingers 38a, 38b and the book center line 5. The device illustrated in Figs. 1 4 is particularly useful for clamping to an existing stand 6, or to another support, this being effected by the use of a pair of clamping fasteners 90. The device, howeu r, can be built into a stand, this being shown at 2 in Fig. 7.Particularly when built into a stand, it may be desirable, as shown, to provide the backing wall in the form of an open frame 92, which frame includes a center vertical bar 93 terminating in a horizontal bar 94, such that the book is firmly held in position between a front clamping bar 34 corresponding to bar 34 in Fig. 1 and the horizontal back bar 94, The stand 2 illustrated in Fig. 7 is of the collapsible type, and is attachable to the vertical standard by a clamping bar 95. The drawings illustrate each of the two pageturning units as including two radial arms of crescent shape located at opposite sides of the units, so that each unit need be rotated only one half revolution to effect a complete page turning operation. However, each unit may include only one such page turning arm, in which case it would require a complete 3600 rotation for a page turning operation or it could include a larger number of arms to correspondingly decrease the rotation needed in order to effect a turning of a page. Fig, 8 illustrates such a unit, generally designated 110, as including four such radiating arms 113, equally spaced about the circumference of the rotational axis of the unit. It will be appreciated that a four arm unit as illustrated in Fig. 8 will require but a one fourth revolution to turn a page. Many other variations, modifications and applications of the invention will be apparent.