# Method and apparatus for creating numerical control data.

## Abstract
A method and apparatus for creating numerical control data by entering coordinates which specify points on a drawing DR placed on a tablet 13a. The method includes entering coordinate values of points on the drawing DR by designating the points, and entering information for specify ing the category of numerical control data to be specified. Numerical control data is created using the classification information and the coordinates of the points, The data can be created simply in a short period of time without requiring special skills.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method of creating numerical control data by entering points from a drawing placed on a tablet, comprising the steps of a entering coordinate values of the points by designating said points on the drawing b entering information specifying the classification of numerical control data to be created and c creating numerical control data using said information and the coordinates of said points. 2. The method according to claim 1, in which said information is indicative of rapid traverse, linear cutting or circular arc cutting. 3. The method according to claim 1 or claim 2, in which the entry or said information is made possible after a predetermined area of a switch function zone, provided at any location on said tablet, is designated by coordinate designating means, 4, An apparatus for creating numerical cntrol data by entering points from a drawing placed on a tablet, comprising for means a entering coordinate values of the points by desingating said points on the drawing for means b entering information specifying the classification of numerical control data to be created and for means c creating numerical control data using said information and the coordinates of said points 5. The apparatus according to claim 4, comprising of an OR gate for taking the OR switch signals produced by each of a plurality of switches provided on coordinate designating means a counter for counting output pulses produced by said OR gate, the status of said counter changing with each counted output pulse a multiplexer for applying coordinate values produced by the tablet, to a predetermined one of a plurality of registers in accordance with the value of the count in said counter said plurality of registers for storing coordinate values successively in accordance with the count in said counter a processor which receives the coordinate values stored in said plurality of registers as well as information specifying the category of numerical control data, for creating numerical control data using said information and said coordinate values and a data memory for storing created numerical control data. 4 or 6. The apparatus according to claim 5, in which the coordinate designating means produces coordinate values of points by designating points on a drawing placed on said tablet, and has said plurality of switches for producing information specifying the category of the numerical control data to be created.

## Description
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR CREATING NUMERICAL CONTROL DATA This invention relates to a system for creating numerical control data A numerically controlled machine tool hereafter referred to as an NC machine tool is operated in a manner specified by a machining program stored on an NC tape to subject a workpiece to prescribed machining.To create an NC tape for a cutting operation, numerical control information and other machining conditions are punched into a paper tape in accordance with predetermined rules. The numerical control information includes all the data necessary for machining, such as numerical values obtained from a design drawing and relating to the dimensions of the workpiece that is to be machined, feed speed, and the like. When machining the workpiece by means of an NC machine tool, the NC tape which has been prepared is fed into the tape reader of a numerical control device so that the various instructions recorded on the NC tape may be read successively, the numerical control device responding by executing the read instructions to cause the machine tool to machine the workpiece as prescribed.Since considerable time and experience is required to create the information stored on an NC tape, an apparatus for preparing an NC tape automatically has recently been developed and put into practical use. The apparatus includes a graphic display, keyboard and printer and is extremely useful in preparing NC tapes in a simple, accurate and rapid manner. Consisting of a microcomputer, the apparatus for automatic preparation of ad NC tape has an internal main memory for storing the NC tape preparation software, or system program. To create a machining program by means of the above described apparatus, the prescribed system program is loaded into the main memory, and a so called part program consisting of a group of data specifying the contour of a part, namely the path of a tool for cutting the contour, must be created and entered in accordance with predetermined rules.If the machining to be performed is, say, a milling operation, the group of data constituting the part program will comprise a graphic data indicative of the shape of a part, consisting of tool diameter data, part surface data specifying the axis along which the tool is to be transported, drive surface data specifying motion in the direction of tool diameter when the tool is transported, and stop surface data specifying how far the tool may be moved when the tool is transported along both the part surface and drive surface, and b command data for tool motion, consisting of positioning data for positioning the tool at a point where motion on the contour of a part is to start, and data commanding motion along the contour.When the part program has been entered into the apparatus for automatic NC tape preparation, the latter creates the machining program automatically under the control of the system program, stores the machining program in the main memory, and then prepares an NC tape by punching the information into a paper tape. Thus, with the apparatus for automatic NC tape preparation, a desired NC tape can be prepared merely by entering the part program. The advantage of the apparatus is that even an NC tape containing a program for a highly sophisticated shape can be prepared in a short period of time in a simple and accurate manner. While the above described apparatus facilitates the preparation of an NC tape, it is still necessary for a programmer to create the part program at his desk from a design drawing while abiding by predetermined r ules . The creation of a part program in such fashion is both a troublesome and time consuming task and can only be accomplished by a programmer having considerable programming skill. In addition, though the apparatus can create an NC tape for a sophisticated shape in an accurate manner, certain types of NC machining operations for the fabrication of gloves, leather shoes, wood crafts and the like do not require that much precision. It would be convenient if an NC tape for such machining operations could be created in a simple and rapid manner by an individual not possessing special programming skill. According to one aspect of the invention there is provided a method of creating numerical control data by entering points from a drawing placed on a tablet, comprising the steps of a entering coordinate values of the points by designating said points on the drawing b entering information specifying the classification of numerical control data to be created and c creating numerical control data using said information and the coordinates of said points. According to another aspect of the invention there is provided an apparatus for creating numerical control data by entering points from a drawing placed on a tablet, comprising means for a entering coordinate values of the points by designating said points on the drawing b entering information specifying the classification of numerical control data to be created and c creating numerical control data using said information and the coordinates of said points. An embodiment of the present invention may provide a method and apparatus for creating NC data in a simple and rapid manner without requiring special skills. An embodiment of the present invention may provide a method and apparatus for creating NC data, well suited to the creation of data that does not require a high level of precision. An embodiment of the present invention may provide a method and apparatus for creating NC data based on dimensional and positional data which can be entered merely by designating desired points on a design drawing, even if dimensions and the like are not written out on the drawing. An embodiment of the present invention may provide a method and apparatus for creating NC data wherein creation of a part program is unnecessary. These and other features may be attained providing a method and apparatus for creating numerical control data by entering coordinates which specify points on a drawing placed on a tablet. The method includes entering coordinate values of points on the drawing by designating the points, and entering information for specifying the category of numerical control data to be specified. Numerical control data is created using the classification information and the coordinates of the points. The data can be created simply in a short period of time without requiring special skills. an embodiment of Other features and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which like reference characters designate the same or similar parts throughout the figures thereof. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS Fig. 1 is a perspective view showing the general features of a system for entering coordinates which is useful in describing the present invention Fig. 2 is a schematic view showing the external appearance of a tablet input device included in the system of Fig. 1 Fig. 3 is an enlarged, top view of a cursor unit included in the system of Fig. 1 Fig. 4 is a flowchart for describing, in general terms, the creation of numerical control data in accordance with the present invention Figs. 5 and 6 are plan views showing examples of displays presented on the CRT of a graphic display device included in the system of Fig. 1 Figs. 7A and 7B are plan views of a tablet and drawing which are useful in describing an operation for setting a switch function zone Figs. 8A through 8C are illustrative views of menues for designating the size of a switch function zone as well as the boundaries of areas which constitute the switch function zone Figs. 9 and 10 are plan views for describing the center of a scale Fig. 11 is a plan view for describing the setting of a reduction ratio Fig. 1 2 is a plan vi ew showing another example of a display presented on the CRT of the graphic display device included in the system of Fig. 1 Fig. 13 is an illustrative view showing the details of a menu depicted in Fig. 8 Figs. 14 and 15 are diagrams useful in describing numerical control graphic data created in a point mode of operation Figs. 16, 17, and 18 are diagrams useful in describing numerical control graphic data created in a cutting mode of operation Fig. 19 is a block diagram of an apparatus for creating numerical control data according to the present invention and Figs. 20A through 20C are illustrative views showing examples of figures which can be drawn out based on numerical control data created in accordance with the present invention. Reference will now be had to Fig. 1 showing the general features of a coordinate input system which is useful in describing the present invention. The system includes the main body 11 of an apparatus for creatingNC data. The main body 11 comprises a keyboard Ila having a multiplicity of keys, a graphic display device llb, a magnetic tape unit llc for loading a magnetic tape cassette, a printer Ild, and a control unit, not shown. The latter is constituted by a microcomputer which executes processing for the input and output of information, for digitizing and for the creation of NC data, all executed by means of a tablet described hereinbelow, based on a system program stored previously in memory means such as a ROM read only memory .The multiplicity of keys provided on the keyboard lla are for responding to prompts which appear on the system CRT, for designating system program loading, and for entering NC data. The graphic display device llb displays, in graphical form, coordinate values obtained by digitization of positions designated by the tablet, as well as input data, numerical values,NC data and various messages or prompts for conversational interaction with the operator. The magnetic tape unit llc is used to enter a system program into the main body of the NC data creating apparatus 11. By way of example, when using a tablet to enter coordinate values directly from a drawing and prepare NC data, the software system program for digitizing processing must be fed into the main body 11.This is done by selecting the magnetic tape cassette containing the digitizing program, and loading the cassette into the magnetic tape unit llc. To read the tape into the system, the operator need only touch a load button on the keyboard lla after the cassette has been set in the tape unit llc. The printer lld is adapted to print out characters which appear on the screen of the graphic display device llb, data punched in a paper tape, described later, and information which has been written into the loaded magnetic tape. The system also includes a paper tape reader puncher 12 for preparing an NC tape by punching a paper tape with perforations indicative of the NC data prepared by main body 11, and for reading NC or other data which has already been punched into an NC tape. The system tablet, designated at 13, comprises a board which uses the principle of electromagnetic induction to enter data. By relying upon a coordinate designating device such.as a cursor unit or stylus pen as means for designating coordinates, the tablet 13 is operable to input positional coordinates from a drawing laid on the tablet surface, these coordinates being fed into the main body 11 as an input thereto. The perspective view of Fig. 2 shows the external appearance of the tablet 13 in greater detail. The tablet 13 comprises a tablet main body or board 13a, a tablet cover 13b, a cursor unit 13c serving as the coordinate designating device, a stylus pen 13d, a buzzer 13e, a group of lamps 13f indicating, e.g., coordinate input mode and introduction of power, an input output connector for connecting the tablet 13 to the main body 11, a power unit 13h for supplying the table body 13a with D.C. power, an A.C. cable 13i for connecting the power unit 13h to an A.C. source, a D.C.cable 13j for the connection between the tablet body and power unit, and a pen stand 13m for holding the stylus pen 13 when not in use. The cursor unit 13c or stylus pen 13d is used to enter coordinate and other data. The details of the cursor unit 13c are illustrated in the enlarged view of Fig. 3, in which a top view of the cursor unit is shown. The cursor unit 13c has a main body CSB, first and second switches SW1, SW2, a position reader PR having a cross hair arrangement, a connector CNT and a cable CBL leading from the connector CNT to the main body CSB. To enter the coordinates of a point, the intersection Pc of the cross hairs provided on the position reader PR is aligned with the desired point on a drawing laid on the tablet body, followed by depressing the first switch SW1 or second switch SW2. A flowchart for describing how NC data is created in accordance with the present invention is depicted inFig. 4. The procedure may be broadly classified into operations of preprocessing, data input, NC data editing and data output. Reference will now be had toFig. 4 to describe the general features of NC data creation and output. 1 System loading step First, following the introduction of power, the operator sets the magnetic tape cassette containing the prescribed software system program in the magnetic tape unit llc Fig. 1 4 and touches the load button on the keyboard lla to store the system program in a main memory incorporated within main body 11 of the system. This causes the title e.g. FAPTDIGITIZER of the system program, as well as a prompt calling for pressing of an R key, to appear on the screen of the graphic display device llb, as shown inFig. 5. 2 F Key setting step The keyboard Ila includes an array of eightF keys Fo to F7 which remain locked in the on state when depressed. The operator, by setting the desiredF keys in the on depressed or off state, selects the operating mode of the tablet 13 as well as the output device to be used. Table I, shown below, gives the function and meaning of each F key, as well as the associated subject matter. It should be noted that theF keys can be set prior to the system loading step if desired. 3 Step for setting initial conditions TABLE I EMI12.1 Key SEP Function SEP Subject SEP Meaning tb Symbol tb F0 SEP Input SEP Test SEP Mode SEP To SEP constantly SEP displey SEP coordinate SEP values tb SEP sensed SEP by SEP tablet tb F1 SEP SEP Input SEP Data SEP To SEP confirm SEP coordinate SEP values SEP sensed SEP by tb SEP Confirmation SEP tablet, SEP and SEP to SEP change SEP coordinate SEP values tb SEP Mode SEP when SEP reguired tb F2 SEP Output SEP Output SEP Mode SEP When SEP F2 SEP is SEP ON, SEP to SEP establish SEP step SEP feed tb SEP during SEP NC SEP data SEP output SEP and SEP enable SEP both tb SEP insertion SEP and SEP leletion SEP of SEP data tb F3 SEP , SEP CRT SEP To SEP display SEP list SEP of, SEP e.g., SEP NC SEP data, SEP on tb SEP Characters SEP CRT tb F4 SEP SEP CRT SEP Graphics SEP To SEP display SEP graphically, SEP on SEP CRT, SEP coordinate tb SEP values SEP entered SEP by SEP tablet tb F5 SEP SEP Printer SEP To SEP print SEP out, SEP vai SEP printer, SEP list SEP of SEP results tb SEP of SEP FAPT SEP execution tb F6 SEP SEP Paper SEP Tape SEP To SEP punch SEP NC SEP command SEP data SEP into SEP paper SEP tape tb F7 SEP SEP MT SEP Cassette SEP To SEP write SEP NC SEP command SEP data SEP into SEP magnetic tb SEP tape SEP cassette tb After setting the F keys, the operator sets the conditions for the preparation of an NC tape.Specifically, four R to R4 of the abovementionedR keys are provided on the keyboard lia. First, the operator depresses the R3 key, causing the prompt REQUEST to appear at the lower left side of theCRT screen. The operator responds to the prompt by setting and entering conditions in accordance with predetermined rules, and then depresses an NL key, located on the keyboard lia, two consecutive times.This restores the CRT screen to the display depicted inFig. 5 and ends the condition setting processing. The conditions which can be set are, e.g., machine tool parameters, input output units English or metric system, etc. and special codes. The machine tool parameters may include the name of each axis of movement X, Y, Z... , the minimum unit set for each axis of movement, and G function instruction codes indicating quick feed, linear cutting feed, clockwise and counter clockwise circular interpolation, absolute command and incremental commands, etc. . 4 Step for setting execution conditions Next, the operator depresses the R1 key to set various conditions for system program execution.The information shown in Fig. 6 will appear on the CRT screen of the graphic display device llb when the R1 key is depressed. Now, in accordance with the conditions which are desired to be set, the operator may select one of the eight items numbered 01 to 08 shown in Fig. 6. When one of the item numbers is keyed in, a prompt appears on the display screen for each of various conditions to be set with regard to the entered item number. When the operator has successively entered the set conditions in response to the prompts, the entry of conditions with regard to the particular item number ends. The operator then depresses the NL key a number of times in succession to return the CRT screen to the display shown in Fig. 6, upon which he may set the conditions for a new item number. Table II shown below gives the meaning of each numbered item. TABLE IIEMI14.1 tb No. SEP Item SEP r SEP SEP Meaning tb SEP 1 SEP Rapid traverse SEP To SEP designate SEP whether SEP rapid tra tb Tool SEP Path SEP Display SEP verse SEP motion SEP should SEP be SEP displayed tb SEP 2. SEP Print SEP Item SEP Item SEP to SEP be SEP printed tb SEP 3. SEP Display SEP Item SEP Item SEP to SEP be SEP displayed SEP on SEP CRT tb SEP 4. SEP Graphic SEP Display SEP Scale SEP and SEP position SEP of SEP graphic tb SEP displayed SEP on SEP CRT tb SEP 5. SEP Tablet SEP Menu SEP To SEP designate SEP menu SEP position SEP on tb SEP pOsition SEP tablet tb SEP 6. SEP Scale SEP To SEP designate SEP scale SEP and SEP scale tb SEP reduction SEP ratio SEP for SEP read tb SEP coordinate SEP values tb SEP 7. SEP NC SEP tape SEP code SEP NC SEP tape SEP output SEP code tb 8. SEP End SEP of SEP setting SEP operation tb In Table II, Item No. 1 designates whether rapidtraverse motion, namely the path of a tool in the rapid traverse mode, is to be displayed. Entering RAPID opposite this item number will cause the path to be displayed. Item Nos. 2 and 3 are for selecting print and display items, respectively. Prescribed outputs can be printed or displayed by entering the parameters shown in the left column of Table III, included hereinbelow.In order for an output to be capable of print out or display, it is necessary that either key F2 or key F3 of the eight F keys be placed in the ON state. Item No. 5 is provided for setting a menu position switch function zone on the tablet. Since the tablet has the capability of identifying designated points, it can also be made to function as a switch if a portion of the tablet surface is partitioned into a plurality of areas and each area is assigned a specific meaning.For example, if a certain area is set to serve as an absolute command area, designating said area will cause the NC data creating apparatus to create NC data in the form of absolute values from then on. TABLE IIIEMI15.1 tb SEP Parameter SEP Meaning tb SEP NC SEP output SEP content SEP of SEP created SEP NC SEP ta SEP e SEP tb ABS SEP output SEP absolute SEP value SEP for SEP each SEP I SEP axis tb SEP C SEP To SEP output SEP center SEP and SEP radius SEP of SEP circle SEP duns tb SEP circular SEP interpolation tb SEP PART SEP To SEP output SEP content SEP of SEP created SEP Part SEP program tb To enter graphic data, a design drawing is laid on the tablet surface and the position of a predetermined point on the drawing is entered by designating the point. When a portion of the tablet surface specifically a switch function zone described below which is to made to function as a switch is fixed in area or position, there will be occasions where said switch function zone of the tablet surface is covered by the design drawing diagram because of the size of the design drawing or the type of design. In such case, the tablet will not be able to discriminate whether a certain designated area on the tablet surface is a point on the design or an area which is to function as a switch. While there are also instances where the graphic itself will not overlay the switch function zone on the tablet surface, inconveniences can still be encountered because this part of the tablet surface may be covered by a blank portion of the drawing. In view of the foregoing problem, and according to embodiment of the the presenti invention, any area on the tablet surface can be made to serve as a switch function zone through use of Item No. 5 mentioned above. This will now be described with reference to Fig. 7, which is useful in explaining how a switch function zone is set, and with reference to Fig. 8 showing examples of menu configurations for designating the size of the switch function zone, the boundaries of areas al through a16 constituting the zone, and the meaning of each area.A menu MN, printed on, e.g., white paper or wax paper, may have a horizontal configuration composed of 16 areas al through a16 in a two row by eight column array, as depicted in Figs. 8A and 8C, or a vertical configuration composed of 16 areas al through a16 in an eight row by two column array, as shown in Fig. 8B. The size of a switch function zone depends upon the size of the menu and can be set at will. The menu MN in Fig. 8C, for example, takes up more space than the menu in Fig. 8A. The numbers of rows and columns also can be set as desired. A switch function zone is set through the following sequence, described with reference to Fig. 7, in which B is an enlarged view of the portion enclosed by the circle in A Initially, a drawing DR is laid on the tablet surface 13a and affixed thereto by adhesive tape or the like, after which the menu MN is similarly laid on and affixed to the tablet surface 13a, at a portion thereof not covered by the drawing DR, as shown in Fig. 7.When the operator selects Item No. 5 Fig. 6 under these conditions, the following prompt appears on theCRT screen UPPER RIGHT g , z thereby inquiring about the position of the upper right portion of the menu MN. The operator responds by positioning the cross hair intersection Pc of the position reader, provided on the cursor unit 13c Fig.3 , at the upper right corner Pru of the menu MN, shown in Fig. 7B, followed by depressing one of the switchesSW1, SW2. This causes the X, Y coordinates X1,Y1 of the point ru to be fed into the system. Next, the following prompt is displayed LOWER LEFT a , z calling for the entry of the point Ped at the lower left corner of the menu MN.As described above, the operator now places the cross hair intersection Pc of the cursor unit 13c at the point ed and depresses one of the switches SW1, SW2 to enter the X, Y coordinates X2,Y2 of the point Pod Distance x along the X axis and distance y along the Y axis are expressed by the following, respectively x X1 X1 X2, y a Y2 V . a a . . 1 Accordingly, the menu will be of the horizontal type if x y holds, and of the vertical type if x y holds.Thus the type of menu is decided by the magnitudes of x, y. Zf a horizontal menu is Jot in advance to have two rows and eight columns and a vertical menu is set in advance to have eight rows and two columns, by way of example, then, in the case ofFig. 7, x y will hold horizontal menu , and the horizontal and vertical dimensions Xv, yI, respective ly, of each area will be xl i X1 X2 8, y a Y1 Y2 8 .. . 2 thereby specifying the boundaries of the areas a1 through a16, This ends the processing for setting an information input zone. Returning to Table II, Item No. 6 is for designating scale and paper reduction ratio for read coordinate values. Generally, an object shown on a drawing is not drawn to actual size, i.e., small objects are drawn large and large objects small. Also, depending upon the paper used, paper length and width may enlarge or contract on the order of several percent during copying. Many copying machines, moreover, have a magnification and reduction function for magnifying or reducing the information appearing on the drawing.The shape of an object appearing on a drawing must therefore be processed in accordance with the actual size of the object. To this end, the operator selects Item No. 6 Fig.6 , whereupon the inquiry SCALE appears on the CRT screen, calling for the entry of scale. The operator responds by entering the magnification shown on the drawing. For example, if the drawing states a magnification of 2X , then the operator enters 2.0 from the keyboard. Note that the point adopted as the center of the scale is that used when the origin, or reference point, of the NC data coordinate system is designated. Said point is entered by the cursor unit.Figs. 9 and 10 are useful in describing the center of the scale. Assume that a point Pr on a drawing specifying a magnification of 2X l Fig. 9A is to be taken as the reference point of the NC data coordinate system. The operator, taking the cursor unit 13c Fig.3 in hand, aligns the cross hair intersection Pc of the position reader PR with the point Pr and then presses either the first switch SW1 or second switchSW2 to enter Pc as the coordinate system reference point. The operator also enters the scale, which is 2.0 in the present case, and thenceforth enters each point that is specified on the drawing. The shape specified in this fashion, denoted FIG in Fig. 9A, is interpreted by the NC data creating apparatus as being the shape FIG shown in Fig. 9B. In other words, in the example of Fig. 9, the system takes the point Pr as the center of the scale. Next, assume that the point Pr on the drawing specifying a magnification of 2X is to be taken as the reference point of the NC data coordinate system, but that a point Ps is used to enter the point Pr, as shown in Fig. 9A. In this case, point Ps become the center of the scale. The operator, taking the cursor unit 13c Fig. 3 in hand, now aligns the cross hair intersection Pc of the position reader PR with the point Ps and then presses either the first switch Swl or second switch SW2 to enter the coordinates of said point, which is a point in the tablet coordinate system. Next, using the keyboard, the operator enters the displacements along the X and Y axes namely xO, yO from the point Ps to the reference point Pr of theNC data coordinate system to specify the point Pr. This establishes point Ps as the center of the scale.The result is that the graphic FIG of Fig. 10A, entered from the drawing specifying a magnification of 2X , is interpreted by the NC data creating apparatus as being the shape FIG shown in Fig. 10B. In other words, in the example of Fig. 10, the positional relation of Ps with respect to Pr is the same in both A and B. After the operator enters the scale, an inquiry appears on the CRT screen regarding reduction ratio with respect to the horizontal and vertical axes of the tablet coordinate system. The operator responds by entering a percentage which takes into consideration either or both of the rate of change in the drawing dimensions owing to expansion or shrinkage of the paper, or the copying magnification. For example, the following prompts will appear on the screen of the CRT X AXIS REDUCTION RATIO Y AXIS REDUCTION RATIO in response to which the operator enters, say, 98 and 97 , respectively, assuming that these figures are indicative of the reduction to 98 and 97 along the horizontal and vertical axes, as illustrated in Fig.11. The NC data creating apparatus therefore reads in 98 and 97 as the reduction ratios, so that a subsequently entered graphic will undergo a size reduction to 98 along the horizontal axis and 978 along the vertical axis. Again returning to Table II, Item No. 7 is for entering an NC tape output code, allowing selection and entry of either an EIA code or ISO code. 5 Coordinate Value Input Step When the condition setting processing for execution of the system program is completed by the foregoing operations, the system is ready to accept entry of various data for NC tape preparation. It should be noted that the display of Fig. 5 reappears on the CRT with the conclusion of processing in step 4 li.e., by entering Item No. 8 . The operator now touches key Ro on keyboard lla to initiate processing in accordance with the system program. More specifically, with a touch of key Rot the CRT displays a prompt calling for either NC data NC tape creation or part program creation, as shown in Fig. 12. The operator enters 01 to execute processing for the creation of NC data, or 02 to execute processing for the creation of a part program.The following discussion will deal with selection of 01 , namely NC data creation. Next, the operator enters various data for NC data creation. Such data may consist of a mode data such as point mode, linear cutting mode and circular arc cutting mode, and b point data relating to points on a drawing. The mode data is entered by designating, through use of the cursor unit, a predetermined area on the switch function zone established in step 4 . Fig. 13 illustrates the details of a horizontal type menu MN used in setting a switch function zone, in which each area is assigned boundary lines and as well as a particular meaning. The areas a12, al3, al4, al5, a 6 are mode selection areas. Area al is a menu selection area which must always be designated before selecting a new mode. The areas al2, a13 are areas for designating a point mode, and the areas al4, a16 are for designating linear and circular arc cutting modes. The point mode is a mode in which points are entered one at a time to create cutting feed rapidtraverse NC data. Selecting the point mode makes it possible to enter points from a drawing by using the tablet. In other words, assume that the operator selects area al2 or a13 to establish the point mode, places the cross hair intersection Pc of the cursor unit 13c on prescribed position on the tablet surface and presses the first switch SW1 or second switch SW2 Fig. 3 . This will create an item of NC data for rapid traverse or cutting feed movement from the previous position to the just indicated position.When the operator restores switch SW1 or switch SW2 to the original position, moves the cursor unit to another position on the design drawing and then again presses switch SW1 or switch SW2, this creates an item of rapid traverse or cutting feed NC data for movement up to said position. By repeating this operation, the operator may enter successively an item of cutting feed rapid traverse data with respect to each separately entered position i.e., the coordinate values of the position . Note that when area a12 is selected, an item of rapid traverse NC data is created regardless of which of the first and second switches SW1, SW2 is pressed.When area a13 is selected, however, an item of cutting feed NC data is created when switch SWl is pressed, and an item of rapid traverse NC data when switch SW2 is pressed. Fig. 14 shows an example of a graphic which is entered in the point mode by selecting area a13 and designating a series of points on a drawing one after another using the cursor unit while selectively pressing switch SW1 or SW2 at each point. In Fig. 14, the dotted lines indicate the creation of NC data for rapid traverse, while the solid lines indicate the creation of NC data for linear cutting. Each numerical value 1 indicates when the first switch SWl was pressed, and each numerical value 2 shows when the second switch SW2 was pressed. As opposed to the point mode, the cutting mode is one in which an item of linear cutting data or circular arc cutting data is created on the basis of each successively entered point coordinate values .Selecting the cutting mode of operation makes it possible to enter points from a drawing by using the tablet 13a. The following will serve as examples a To create NC data for linear cutting The operator selects area awl4, aligns the cross hair intersection Pc of the cursor unit 13c with a prescribed position on the tablet 13a and presses switch sWl. This causes the creation of an item of linear cutting data for movement from the immediately preceding position designated by the cursor unit 13c to the newly designated position.If the operator then moves the cursor unit 13c to another position on the tablet surface and presses switch SWI, then this will again produce an output of linear cutting data for movement to said position. Repeating this operation will create NC data for cutting a workpiece by causing a tool to move along a contour of the kind shown inFig. 15. b To create NC data cutting circular arcs The operator selects area a14, aligns the cross hair intersection Pe Pc of the cursor unit 13c with a prescribed position P1 Fig. 16 on the tablet 13a, presses switch SW2, moves the cursor unit 13c to another position p2 on the tablet and again presses switch S2. The entry of the abovementioned two points forms a circular arc CIR from an immediately preceding point Pb and the two newly entered points Pl, P2, thereby creating NC data for circular interpolation.By repeating the above operation, the operator creates successive items of NC data for interpolating circular arcs connected as shown in Fig. 17. The selected arcs each pass through three points. Whether an arc is a clockwise or counter clockwise arc is determined automatically by the points entered. If area a16 is selected, then circular arc cutting data will be created regardless of whether switch S1 or S2 is pressed. c To create NC data for mixed linear and arc cutting by combining operations a and b Fig. 18 illustrates a shape based on NC data for mixed linear and arc cutting, created by selecting area al4 and combining operations a and b . In Fig. 18, each numeral 1 indicates when the switch SW1 was pressed after aligning the cross hair intersection Pc of the cursor unit with the corresponding point. Likewise, each numeral 2 indicates when the switch SW2 was pressed after aligning the cross hair intersection of the cursor unit with the corresponding point. A block diagram illustrating an apparatus for creating NC data in accordance with the present invention is illustrated in Fig. 19. The apparatus, desi gnated at 101, and a tablet designated at 102, are arranged in the manner shown in Figs. 2 and 3.The apparatus 101 for creating NC data comprises an OR gate 101a for taking the OR of signals FSWT, SSWT produced at the trailing edges of respective switch signals issued by the first and second switchs SW1, SW2 of the cursor unit when they are pressed, a ternary counter 101b for counting the pulses logical 1 produced by the OR gate iota, the counter assuming states 00 0 , 01 1 , 10 2 , OO 0 ... and so on, in the order mentioned, a multiplexer 101c, first, second and third registers 101d, 101e, 101f, the multiplexer applying coordinates values COR, received from the tablet 102, to the registers 101d through 101f in sequential fashion in accordance with the status of the counter loib, whereby the coordinates are stored in the designated register, a processor 101g for creating NC data, and a data memory lOlh for storing the created NC data. The coordinates COR from the tablet 102 are stored in register lOld when the status of counter lOlb is 0 , in register lOle for state 1 , and in register lOlf for state 2 . Destribed next will be the creation of NC data in both the point and cutting modes. When the operator selects area awl 2 Fig. 13 of the switch function zone set on the surface of the tablet, a first point mode signal Sal2 logical 1 enters the NC data creating processor lOlg. When coordinate values arrive from the tablet 102, therefore, NC data created from then on will be data for rapid traverse GOO .For example, if the operator takes the cursor unit, aligns the cross hair intersection Pc with a prescribed position on the drawing and presses the first switch SW1 or second switch SW2 Fig. 3 under intial conditions namely when the status of counter lOlb is 1 and the content of register lOld is zero , then the coordinates X1,Y1 of the designated position will be stored in the second register lOld via the multiplexer lOlc in response to a signal FSWL or SSWL produced at the leading edge of the first switch signal SW1 or second switch SW2.When the operator restores the switch SW1 or SW2 to the off position, causing the corresponding switch signal to fall, the trailing edge signal FSWT or SSWT is generated to increment the counter lOlg to a numerical value 2 , and is applied to the NC data creating processor long. Using the content initially zero of the first register lOld and the contents X1, Y1 of the second register lOle, the processor 101g computes incremental values AX1 X1 , A1 Y1 along the X andY axes, respectively, and thereafter creates NC data given by GOO X X1, Y A1 the latter being stored at the first address of the data memory loll. Next, the operator moves the cross hair intersection Pc of the cursor unit to another position and presses the first switch SW1 or second switch SW2, causing the coordinates X2,Y2 of the position to be stored in the third register loaf. Thereafter, as described above, signal FSWT or SSWT is generated to restore the status of counter lOlb to zero, and the processor 101g uses the contents of the second register lOle and of the third register 101f to perform the operations X2 X1 X2, Y2 Y1 Y2 thereby deriving the incremental values X2, AY2. The processor lOlg then creates data represented by GOO X X2, Y Y2 and stores the data in the second address of the data memory lOlh. The foregoing processing steps are repeated to create the desired rapid traverse NC data and to store the data in the data memory loth. It should be noted that while the foregoing deals with the creation of NC data based on incremental values, NC data based on absolute values can also be created. Using the switch function zone shown in Fig. 13, the operator may designate incremental values by selecting area a9, and absolute values by designating area a1O. Now assume that the operator selects area awl 3 of the switch function zone. This causes a second point mode signal Sal3 logical 1 to enter the processor lOlg for the creation of NC data. Consequently, when the operator presses the first switch SW1 and coordinate values enter the processor lOlg, the latter creates NC data for linear cutting GO1 . If the second switch SW2 is pressed to enter the coordinate values, then the processor 101g creates NC data for rapid traverse GOO . It should be noted that the method in which the processor 101g creates NC data when the area a13 is selected is almost the same as when the area al2 is selected.The only difference is that cutting data or rapid traverse data will be created depending upon whether switch SW1 or SW2 is pressed. The foregoing relates to the point mode of operation. When the operator selects area a14 on the switch function zone, a cutting mode signal Sal4 logical 1 is fed into the processor lolg for the creation of NC data. Consequently, when the operator presses the first switch SW1 and coordinate values enter the processor lOlg, the latter creates NC data for linear cutting GO1 .If the second switch SW2 is pressed to enter the coordinate values, then the processor lOlg creates NC data for circular arc cutting G02, G03 . For example, if the operator takes the cursor unit, aligns the cross hair intersection Pc with a prescribed position on the drawing and presses the first switch SWl under intial conditions namely when the status of counter lOlb is 1 and the content of register lOld is X1, Y1 , then the coordinates X2,Y2 of the designated position will be stored in the second register lOld via the multiplexer lOlc in response to a signal FSWL produced at the leading edge of the first switch signal SW1.When the operator restores the switch SW1 to the off position, causing the corresponding switch signal to fall, the trailing edge signal FSWT is generated to increment the counter lOlg to numerical value 2 , and is applied to the NC data creating processor long. Using the content X1, Y1 of the first register lOld and the contents X2, Y2 of the second register lOle, the processor 101g computes incremental values dX2 X2 X1 , y2 y2 y1 along the X and Y axes, respectively, and thereafter createsNC data given by G01 X AX2, Y aY2 the latter being stored at a predetermined location of the data memory loth. From then on the same processing will take place each time coordinate values are entered by pressing the first switch SW1, thereby creating data for linear cutting. For circular arc cutting, the operator presses the second switch SW2 to feed the coordinates XZ,Y2 , X3,Y3 of two points on a drawing into the second register lOle and third register loaf, respectively, with the content of the first register lOld being X1,Y1 . Now the processor lOlg creates NC data for the interpolation of circular arcs passing through the three points indicated by the coordinate values stored in each of the first, second and third registers lOld, lOle, lOlf. The processor stores the data in the data memory lOlh. Thereafter, each time the operator presses the switch SW2 two times in succession, data for circular arc cutting will be created through the foregoing processing whenever the two sets of coordinate value are received by the processor lOlg.It should be noted that linear and circular arc cutting data can be mixed by pressing the first and second switchs swl, SW2 in a combination decided by the design drawing. Also, by entering coordinates through a combination of the point and cutting modes, it is possible to create NC data which include positioning rapid traverse data, linear cutting data and circular arc cutting data. Although the NC data created in the above described fashion does not include M , T andS function instructions, these can be inserted by entering them from, e.g., the keyboard, or later by such editing processing as correction and addition processing. 6 Recording step The foregoing steps create NC data and store the data in the data memory loth. The next step is to preserve the items of created data by reading them out of the data memory and either punching them into a paper tape by way of the tape puncher or by recording them on magnetic tape. Figs. 20A through 20C show examples of drawings which can be produced in accordance with the present invention by driving a pen based on NC data created by using the tablet to enter data indicative of prescribed points. The time required for the creation of the NC data representing the various graphics was 12 min.for Fig. 20A, 20 min. for Fig. 20B and 5 min. forFig. 20C. embodiment of the In accordance with the present invention as described and illustrated hereinabove, NC data can be created in a simple and rapid manner without requiring special skills merely be designating the mode data and the desired points on a design drawing placed on the tablet. Though the precision of the data entered by the tablet declines somewhat, there are many instances where highly accurate machining is unnecessary. The embodiment of the Invention is well suited to the creation of NC data representing contours that are machined in such fashion. In addition, coordinate values can be entered directly merely by designating desired points on a design drawing, even if dimensions and the like are not indicated on the drawing. Furthermore, an embodiment of the invention dispense with the need to create part programs. As many apparently widely different embodiments of the invention can be made withot departing from the spirit and scope thereof, it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to the specific embodi ments thereof except as defined in the appended claims. There is disclosed a method and apparatus for creating numerical control data by entering coordinates which specify points on a drawinglplaced on a table. The method includes entering coordinate values of points on the drawinglby designating the points, and entering information for specifying the category of numerical control data to be specified. Numerical control data is created using the classificÅation information and the coordinates of the points. The data can be created simply in a short period of time without requiring special skills.