# Yarn unwinding machines.

## Abstract
A machine for unwinding yarn from a hank comprises a base 10 for securing a swift 12 non rotatably, and an axle 14 rotatable in a hub of the swift 12 and in a hole 15 continuing through the base 10 . A rotary sweep arm 20 passes through the axle 14 and is attached therein. An eyelet 22 is connected to a lower end of the arm 20 for movement around the the swift 12 in a plane transverse to the paper. A fixed eyelet 24 is provided on the axis of the swift 12 . Yarn is unwound from a hank not shown on the swift 12 , and passes along a path 30 through the eyelets 22, 24 to a waxer 32 and a cone winder 34 .

## Claims
Claims 1. A machine for unwinding yarn from a hank characterized by means 10 for securing a swift 12 , an axle 14 mountable coaxially with the swift 12 on the securing means 10 , a rotary sweep arm 20 attached transversely to the axle 14 , an eyelet 22 connected to the arm 20 for movement in a circle of greater diameter than the swift 12 , and a fixed eyelet 24 on the axis of the swift 12 . 2. A machine according to claim 1 characterized in that the means 10 secures the swift 12 non rotatably, and the axle 14 is rotatable in a hub of the swift 12 . 3. A machine according to claim 1 or claim 2 characterized in that the sweep arm 20 is made fast by passing through the axle t14 and being secured by means of a grub screw. 4. A machine according to any preceding claim characterized in that the eyelet 22 is connected to one end of the arm 20 and counterbalanced by means of a weight 23 attached to the arm 20 on the other side of the axle 14 . 5. A machine according to any preceding claim characterized in that the positions of the arm 20 and of the weight 23 are adjustable.

## Description
TITLE Yarn Unwinding MachinesDESCRIPTIONTechnical FieldThe invention relates to machines for unwinding yarn from a hank.Background ArtYarn is obtained in the form of a hank from various manufacturing processes such as dyeing, finishing or the unroving of knitted fabric. Such yarn needs to be unwound before it can be further processed, for example by winding onto a cone, spool, bobbin or like package, as a preliminary to further treatment. The hank may be supported on a swift or supplied loose and mounted on an adjustable swift before unwinding.The InventionA machine according to the invention comprises means for securing a swift, an axle mountable coaxially with the swift on the securing means, a rotary sweep arm attached transversely to the axle, an eyelet connected to the arm for movement in a circle of greater diameter than the swift, and a fixed eyelet on the axis of the swift.The said means preferably secures the swift non rotatably, and the axle is preferably rotatable in a hub of the swift. The sweep arm can then be made fast to the axle. Alternatively the axle might itself be non rotatable and the sweep arm attached rotatably to the axle, possible in a bearing. The sweep arm can be made fast by passing through the axle and being secured by means of a grub screw. The eyelet is preferably connected to one end of the arm and counterbalanced by means of a weight attached to the arm on the other side of the axle. The positions of the arm on the axle and of the counterbalance weight are preferably adjustable, and the weight securable by means of a grub screw.The swift being non rotatable means that both the swift itself and the hank of yarn thereon remain stationary during unwinding, and the only parts rotating are the arm, the eyelet thereon and possibly the axle. These rotating parts are of relatively low inertia, so there is little chance of the yarn breaking on starting up or snagging, and high unwinding speeds can be attained. The yarn is drawn off through the eyelet connected to the sweep arm and the fixed eyelet by the further processing machine, for example a cone winder, to which the yarn is directed.DrawingsFigure 1 shows a machine according to the invention arranged for unwinding yarn from a hank and winding it onto a cone andFigure 2 shows a horizontal arrangement of the same machine. A single set of reference numerals have been used in both Figures.Best ModeWith particular reference to Figure 1, the machine comprises a base 10 for securing a swift 12.An axle 14 is rotatably mounted in a hub 13 of r the swift 12 and in a hole 15 containing a bearing grade nylon bush continuing from the swift 12 through the base 10. A rotary sweep arm 20 passes through the axle 14, and is made fast therein by a grub screw not shown entering from the end of the axle 14.An eyelet 22 is connected to a lower end of the arm 20, and is movable on rotation of the axle 14 in a circle normal to the plane of the paper and of greater diameter than the swift 12. An eyelet 24 is fixed on a support 26 in a position on the axis of the swift 12. Yarn follows a path 30, on unwinding from a hank not shown on the swift 12, through the eyelets 22, 24, is unwound from the swift 12 by the rotation of the arm 20, and is drawn to a waxer tension unit 32 of a cone winder 34. The base 10 is secured to an arm 40 fixed to the cone winder 34. The arm 40 is laid back from the vertical so that the axle 14 will remain in position without locking means during operation. The swift 12 is secured with respect to the base 10 by balls 101 urged by coil springs 103 into engagement with a conical portion 131 of the swift hub 13. At the upper end of the sweep arm 20 remote from the eyelet 22 is a counterbalance weight 23 secured by means of a grub screw not shown .