# Apparatus for collecting aluminium containers and issuing return deposits.

## Abstract
Apparatus for collection of aluminium containers and for direct payment of refund deposits for containers bearing distinguishing indicia includes an exterior housing having an access port closed by a door 15 , a container access area 22 sized to accommodate both crushed and non crushed containers, an aluminium detector 34 for deter mining whether a container offered by a customer is sub stantially aluminium and an optical scanning device 27, 28 for detecting the presence of the distinguishing indicia. A movable shelf 16 is mounted on a piston 20 which is retracted in response to a signal from the aluminium detec tor 34 and the optical scanning device 27, 28 so as to accept a container identified as being substantially alumi nium and bearing the distinguishing indicia by allowing it to drop into a crushing area 69 where it is crushed by the piston 20 on its return stroke, subsequently falling into a storage bag. Simultaneously a dispenser dispenses refunds for containers accepted.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Apparatus for collecting and storing empty aluminium containers having distinguishing indicia thereon and for issuing predetermined return deposits for collected containers comprising pre selection means for exposing a crushed or non crushed container offered by a customer to an aluminium detector for identifying whether the container is substantially aluminium without establishing direct electrical contact with the container, and for detecting the presence of distinguishing indicia on the crushed or noncrushed container, the pre selection means including a container access area configured to accommodate both crushed or non crushed containers for exposure to the detector, means for accepting only a container identified by the pre selection means as being substantially aluminium and as having the distinguishing indicia thereon independently of the configuration of the container, dispensing means responsive to the pre selection means for dispensing payment in return for containers having a substantially aluminium composition and carrying the distinguishing indicia, means co operating with the accepting means for crushing the containers and means for storing crushed containers received from the crushing means. 2. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the distinguishing indicia are formed of an ultra violet light reflecting material, and the pre selection means includes ultra violet detecting means for optically scanning the crushed or noncrushed container and for generating an electric signal in response to the presence of a predetermined amount of reflected ultra violet slight. 3. Apparatus according to claim 2 wherein the pre selection means includes means for indicating when the container is substantially aluminium. 4. Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the accepting means includes means for depositing the container by gravity into the crushing means. 5. Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims also including an exterior housing having an access port therein, for allowing manual insertion of a container into the container access area in the apparatus. 6. Apparatus according to claim 5 wherein the housing includes a safety door for covering the access port, and means preventing operation of the apparatus when the safety door is open. 7. Apparatus according to claim 6 also including means responsive to the insertion of a container into the access port for actuating the pre selection means upon closing of the safety door. 8. Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims also including manual pushbutton means for actuating the pre selection means. 9. Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the pre selection means includes reject means for actuating a signal when a received container does not have both a substantially aluminium composition and distinguishing indicia present thereon. 10. Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the means for storing comprises a bag and the housing includes a disposal door for permitting removal of the bag. 11. Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the dispensing means includes an inter changeable coin magazine. 12. A method of collecting and storing empty aluminium containers having distinguishing indicia thereon, of issuing return deposits for collected containers, crushing the accepted containers and depositing the crushed containers in a receptacle for storage, characterised by simultaneously exposing a crushed or non crushed container offered by a customer both to an electro magnetic field for identifying whether the container is substantially aluminium without establishing direct electrical contact with the oontainer, and to a device for detecting the presence of distinguishing indicia on said container, and accepting only a container identified by exposure to the field as being both substantially aluminium and bearing the distinguishing indicia, independently of the configuration of the container.

## Description
Apparatus for collecting aluminium containers and issuing return dePosits This invention relates to apparatus for collecting and storing metallic containers and, more particularly, machines for collecting, crushing and storing used aluminium beverage cans in those jurisdictions where container deposit legislation has been or is likely to be enacted, and for return to consumers of deposits on beverage cans so collected. The invention is concerned with an improvement on that described and claimed in the co pending application no 81304259.5 which corresponds to U S patent no 4,345,679. With the increasing emphasis in recent years on energy conservation, the re cycling of metallic containers such as beverage cans has become an important factor in the conservation effort. More specifically, the re cycling of aluminium cans has proven to be remarkable efficient in energy saving. Yet only a fraction of the total annual production of aluminium beverage cans is recovered after use, with the remainder being discarded often as litter. As a result of these problems, some jurisdictions have now enacted or are about to enact mandatory deposit laws which require deposits on all beverage containers including cans. Such laws create additional problems for the grocery industry and a great deal of attention has been directed to the development of an efficient and effective method for receiving returned containers and paying the necessary deposit refunds. However, to date no refund system is believed to have successfully solved the refund problems discussed and an inordinate amount of time and effort is presently spent on the part of the grocery industry in effecting refunds in those territories which require deposits. Several machines have been developed in the past for encouraging the recovery and re cycling of metallic containers. For example,U. S.Patent nos 3,857,334 and 3,907,087 disclose apparatus for crushing metallic containers and discharging refund coins or tokens in exchange therefor. U S patent no RE 27,643 describes a process and apparatus for collection of metal containers in which tokens are automatically dispensed for the containers collected. In general, the prior art machines induct any type of inserted container, and then utilise some type of sensing means for differentiating between those containers for which a token is to be dispensed and those containers for which no payment is to be made. For example, U. S. patent no 3,857,334 discloses control means for issuing a token only when cans of a given size,weight and design are crushed in the machine. U.S. patent no RE 27,643 discloses a mechanism which utilises a plurality of bar magnets for separating cans formed of magnetic material from non magnetic cans. Several of the prior art apparatus are designed to take advantage of the shape of the container in feeding the metallic containers into the apparatuc. This type of feeding mechanism has an inherent drawback in that the containers must be sufficiently close to their original shape to roll down an inclined surface.As a result, a large majority of containers which have been totally or partially crushed by the user, cannot be fed into such machines efficiently.In addition, the sensing or differentiating mechanisms of the prior art machines do not appear to be adaptable to operation on partially or fully crushed containers of different sizes. At least one prior art machine has included a mechanism for effecting direct re payment of deposits. U.S. Patent no 4,141,493 describes a device for use with a can having identifying indicia in the form of specially shaped can identifying indicia embossed on one end thereof.Two probe members sense the presence of the can indicia, and complete a circuit when the indicia is present to effect pay out of the applicable deposit. This mechanism apparently requires that the container be sufficiently close to its original shape so that the ends of the container will align with and complete a circuit through the probes. It also requires that one end of every deposit container has the indicia embossed thereon, and that the can be held in a particular orientation for sensing. Since a large proportion of beverage cans are crushed or flattened by a user, the type of indicia found in the prior art may not be useful to effect direct return deposit pay out on such cans. Furthermore, the prior art machines have difficulty accepting such cans at all. Accordingly it is an object of this invention to provide a container collection machine with a sensing mechanism which can readily detect the presence of aluminium cont ainers of varying sizes, can do so prior to accepting the inserted container into the interior of the machine and can also detect the presence of identifying indicia on the can for direct payment of a return deposit. As mentioned above the present invention represents an improvement on that disclosed in the co pending application no 81504259.5, according to which apparatus for collecting and storing empty aluminium containers comprises pre selection means for exposing a crushed or non crushed container offered by a customer to an aluminium detector for identifying whether the container is substantially aluminium without establishing direct electrical contact with the container, the pre selection means including a container access area configured to accommodate both crushed or non crushed containers for exposure to the detector, means for accepting only a container identified by the preselection means as being substantially aluminium independently of the configuration of the container, dispensing means responsive to the pre selection means for dispensing payment in return for containers having a substantially aluminium composition, means co operating with the accepting means for crushing the containers and means for storing crushed containers received from the crushing means.According to the present invention such apparatus also includes the features that the pre selection means includes means for detecting the presence of distinguishing indicia on the crushed or non crushed container, the accepting means accepts only a container identified by the pre selection means both as being substantially aluminium and as having the distinguishing indicia thereon, and the dispensing means dispenses payment in return for containers having both a substantially aluminium composition and carrying the distinguishing indicia. Preferably the distinguishing indicia are formed of an ultra violet light reflecting material, and the pre selection means includes ultra violet detecting means for optically scanning a crushed or non crushed container and for generating an electric signal in response to the presence of a predetermined amount of reflected ultraviolet light. The accepting means preferably includes means for depositing the containers by gravity into the crushing means. Preferably also, the apparatus includes an exterior housing having an access port therein, and a shelf positioned within the port for allowing manual insertion of a container into the container access area. The apparatus may also include a door covering the access port and means preventing operation of the apparatus when the door is open. An example of apparatus in accordance with the invention will now be described, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 1 is a perspective view of the exterior of the apparatus Figure 2 is a front view of the interior portion of the apparatus and the rear of a front door Figure 3 is a cut away view of access and crushing portions of the apparatus as seen from the right hand side Figure 4 is a top view of the crushing mechanism of the apparatus with a piston in the open position Figure 5 is a rear view of the crushing mechanism of the apparatus Figure 6 is an enlarged front view showing an indicator panel and access port and Figure 7 is a block functional diagram of electrical components of the apparatus. Referring now to Figures 1 and 2, the illustrated container collecting apparatus provides a rapid and efficient means for collecting containers for re cycling and effecting direct payment of return deposits. The apparatus for collection of containers generally includes a rectangular cabinet housing 10 having a front wall 12 which is hinged to allow access to the interior of the housing 10 for maintenance of the operating components and to allow for removal of the containers collected in the apparatus. In accordance with the invention, the apparatus includes pre selection means for exposing a crushed or non crushed container offered by a customer to an electro magnetic field for identifying whether the container is substantially aluminium without direct physical contact with the container, and for detecting the presence of distinguishing indicia on the container. The pre selection means include a container access area configured to accommodate both crushed and non crushed containers for exposure to the field. As embodied herein, the pre selection means includes an access port 14 in the front wall 12 of the housing 10. A door 15 covers the access port 14 and the door 15 may be provided with an electronic locking mechanism not shown which prevents operation of the apparatus when the door 15 is unlocked. The door 15 may also include means for automatically opening the door upon unlocking, such as a spring.The door 15 also preferably includes a lip 17 for facilitating the opening of the door to remove a non acceptable container from the container access area 22. Preferably, the distinguishing indicia are formed by an ultra violet light reflecting material, and the pre selection means includes ultra violet detecting means for optically scanning the crushed or non crushed container and for generating an electric signal in response to the presence of a predetermined amount of reflected ultra violet light from the indicia on the container.Preferably, the pre selection means includes aluminium detection means, the container being disposed adjacent the aluminium detection means by a customer. As herein embodied and as best shown in Figure 3, the pre selection means includes an aluminium detector 34 disposed in the walls of container access area 22. The aluminium detector 34 is mounted in the apparatus so that a container inserted into the access port 14 onto a shelf 16 will be disposed adjacent the detector 34. The aluminium detector means is preferably mounted on opposite sides of the container access area 22. However, other configurations and designs may be used. A preferred form for the aluminium detection means is disclosed in the co pending application no 82300631.7. Another form of aluminium detector is disclosed in the co pending application referred to originally, Preferably the accepting means includes means for depositing the container by gravity into a crushing means. As herein embodied, the accepting means includes the shelf 16 forming a horizontal plane on the top edge 18 of a reciprocating piston member 20, The piston 20 forms the crushing mechanism in the apparatus, and will be described in more detail below. The shelf 16 forms the floor of the container access area 22 also described hereinafter when the crushing mechanism is not operating. Shelf 16 may be formed of any suitable material, and is attached to piston 20 by means of screws 24.When a container is inserted into the container access area 22, the container rests directly on shelf 16.During operation of the machine the piston 20 retracts from under container access area 22, thereby moving shelf 16 out of its position and allowing the container to drop by gravity into the crushing mechanism. In the illustrated embodiment, the preselection mechanism is actuated by a current from the apparatus power supply not shown . When an acceptable container is determined to be present, the current through the sensing circuit is cut off and the crushing and dispensing means are actuated. If a container having a composition other than desired or not bearing the appropriate identifying indicia is inserted into the container access area 22, and the sensing means are actuated, the identification circuitry will indicate that an undesired container is present, and the apparatus will not operate further to accept the container.Thus only containers of aluminium and bearing the deposit indicia will be received and crushed by the apparatus. When the operation of the pre selection means identifies the composition of the container as aluminium and as being entitled to return deposit, the shelf 16 moves out of position by the action of piston 20 allowing the container to drop into the crushing area 69. As herein embodied the ultra violet detecting means includes a light source 27 mounted to permit direct illumination of the crushed or non crushed container. The ultra violet reflecting material on the container is preferably in the form of a band or stripe surrounding the container which may be easily applied during the manufacturing or packaging operation, or may be included on a stamp. The light reflected by the container is detected by a series of ultra violet sensors 28. The sensors may be mounted on opposite sides of the container access area 22, or in any other location which provides adequate exposure to the light reflected from the container. The amount of reflected ultra violet light is measured by the sensors 28. If the light reading meets a predetermined criteria, an electric signal is generated for actuating the counting mechanism of the coin dispenser to pay the customer a refund of the deposit amount. In accordance with the invention, the apparatus also includes coin dispensing means responsive to the pre selection means for dispensing payment in return for containers having a substantially aluminium composition and bearing the distinguishing indicia of deposit. As herein embodied and as shown inFigure 2, a coin chute 64 is provided to channel individual coins or tokens to be dispensed to a slot 66 on the front facing surface 12 of the housing 10. The dispensing means is electrically connected to the sensing means by appropriate circuitry as generally shown in Figure 7 and is responsive thereto. Thus, coins are dispensed in response to receipt of an aluminium container having the distinguishing indicia which identify it as being entitled to a refund deposit. Preferably, a counter not shown may be employed to calculate the refund due for multiple containers received. A coin magazine having coin sleeves for different sized coins may be used with the counter to allow a single refund of correct change in return for receipt of several containers. With this embodimzlt, a push button 91 may be used to signal when the refund is to be paid. The use of an inter changeable coin magazine allows for rapid servicing of the machine since a full coin magazine may be quickly interchanged with the empty or partially filled magazine in the machine. The coin dispensing means of the apparatus may also include suitable sensors not shown to indicate when the coin magazine is emptied and to actuate a signal light on the front of the apparatus. Preferably, the apparatus also includes token dispensing means for issuing coupons at predetermined or random intervals for containers collected. As herein embodied, the token dispensing means includes a dispenser 30 mounted within the housing 10, and electrically connected to the pre selection means of the apparatus.Individual coupons are dispensed one at a time through a slot 31, which is aligned with an opening 32 in the door 12 of housing 10. Preferably, the structure of the token dispenser 30 is conventional and accommodates rolls of coupons in the form of tickets. The token dispenser may be connected to a counter not shown in the coin dispensing means for issuing a coupon only upon acceptance of a predetermined plurality of containers. This token dispenser acts as an additional inducement for consumers to return containers, since the coupons or tickets may be exchangeable for valuable discounts or prizes. The crushing means previously referred to and including the horizontally reciprocating piston 20, also includes a driving mechanism 70 which is operatively connected to the piston 20 for imparting the necessary reciprocal motion thereto. The driving mechanism includes an electric motor 71 which powers a rotating shaft 73. The shaft is coupled to a piston rod 75 through an eccentric member 77. Rotation of the shaft 73 causes reciprocal motion of piston rod 75, thereby actuating piston 20. In operation, an accepted container falls into a crushing area 69 when the piston 20 is retracted and shelf 16 moves horizontally with piston 20. The piston then cycles back, and the face plate 79 of piston 20 crushes the container against a back plate 81.On the next cycle of the piston 20, the crushed container falls by gravity into the storage area of the machine. In order to prevent the apparatus from crushing full or partially filled containers, a weight over ride support 82 is provided. When an accepted container drops into the crushing area 69, it is supported by the weight over ride 82. The support 82 is rotatably connected to a shaft 84 and is biased into its normal can supporting position by a spring 85 surrounding one end of shaft 84. The weight of a container causes a downward force on the support 82, and when that weight is greater than the biasing force of the spring 85, the support 82 opens, allowing the container to drop into the storage area in an uncrushed state. Thus, the interior of the apparatus is not soiled with the contents of the container and unnecessary attraction of insects or other animals can be reduced. The compacting motor 71 and its associated structure is particularly efficient in its operation, since it involves only a simple back and forth motion, and utilises a minimum number of moving parts. This reduces the problems of repair and contributes to the reliability of operation for the machine. The back plate 81 is also designed to reduce the possibility of damage during operation, and to enhance the reliability of the device.Plate 81 is attached to a support plate 86 by a series of interior rods 87 and guide rods 89.The guide rods 89 allow for plate 81 to move horizontally toward support plate 86 under the impact of piston 20. Each of the interior rods 87 is surrounded by a spring 88 for urging plate 81 and plate 86 apart. Thus under the impact of piston 20 on a container, plate 81 acts as both a crushing member and a shock absorber to reduce the possibility of damaging the compactor motor 71 or the other components of the crushing mechanism.Movement of plate 81 under the pressure of piston 20 ensures that a container which is crushed between the piston and the plate drops to the right of support 82 as seen in Figure 3 when piston 20 is retracted. The apparatus also includes storage means for receiving crushed containers from the crushing means and for storing the crushed containers. As herein embodied, the storage means comprises a bag 72 positioned in the lower portion of the housing 10. As illustrated, the bag 72 has a draw string 74 for facilitating mounting and removal of the bag from the apparatus.The bag 72 is accessible by opening the hinged front wall 12 of the housing 10. Alternatively, a separate disposal door not shown may be provided in the housing 10 for removing the bag 72. An additional signal light 83 may be provided on the front of the housing 10 indicating when a received container is not acceptable. This signal light is connected to the sensing means by appropriate circuitry not shown and is responsive to the sensing means. The sequence of operation of the apparatus of the present invention is initiated when an operator lifts a door 15 on the front of the housing 10, and inserts a container onto the shelf 16 in the container access area 22. The operator then closes the door 15 and pushes manual push button 80 on the front wall 12 of the housing 10.Preferably appropriate electrical circuitry and sensors Figure 5 are provided to verify at this point in the operation of the apparatus that the door 15 is closed. This same circuitry may be utilised to activate an optional signal light not shown on the front wall 12 of the apparatus to indicate that the door 15 is not fully closed.Activation of the manual push button also energises a solenoid not shown which operates a mechanism for bolting the door 15 securely. When the door 15 is securely bolted, an appropriate electrical switch is closed causing the sensing mechanism to be energised. The sensing mechanism then activates causing the container to be exposed to an electro magnetic field from the aluminium detector 34, to determine if the composition of the container is a desired material. If the container is determined to have an undesirable composition, the current to the sensing circuit cuts off, a signal light 83 is activated on the front wall 12 of the apparatus to indicate that the container is not acceptable, and the door 15 is automatically opened. The above sequence of operation will also take place if the manual push button 80 is activated with no container present on the shelf 16. Preferably, appropriate sensing devices may be used in place of the manual push button 80 to indicate the presence of a container on the shelf 16. In this configuration, the electro magnetic sensing means is energised automatically upon closing of the safety door 15. Simultaneously with the activation of the aluminium detection means, the light source 27 is activated, and the ultra violet sensors 28 are energised to detect the presence of the distinguishing indicia on the container. If the indicia are detected and if the container is aluminium a signal is generated for payment of the refund. If the indicator 37 shows that the composition of the container is aluminium and bears deposit indicia, the motor 71 is started to cycle the piston 20 allowing the container to drop into the crushing area 69. The coin dispensing mechanism is also activated in response to an indication from the pre selection means of the presence of a desired container. As the piston 20 cycles to crush the container, the coin dispenser ejects appropriate coins through the coin chute 64 to the slot 66.The coin dispenser may also be provided with circuitry to activate a signal light not shown on the front of the apparatus for indicating that the apparatus is full, or that no further coins are available for dispensing. The apparatus may be provided with separate access ports to accommodate different sized containers or containers of different composition. In addition, the structure of the apparatus may be modified to allow reception of containers of different compositions, with a different token response for each container. In addition, modifications to crush and store the different containers in segregated storage locations could be made by those skilled in the art. In addition to the apparatus described in detail above, the invention also comprises a method of collecting and storing empty aluminium containers and issuing return deposits for collected containers having distinguishing indicia thereon.The method of the present invention comprises the steps of simultaneously exposing a crushed or noncrushed container offered by a customer to an electro magnetic field for identifying whether the container is substantially aluminium without establishing direct electrical contact with the container and to an optical scanning device for detecting the presence of a distinguishing indicia on the container, accepting only a container identified by exposure to the field as being substantially aluminium and having the distinguishing indicia thereon, independent of the configuration of the container, dispensing return deposits for accepted aluminium containers having the di sting uishing indicia, crushing the containers, and depositing the crushed containers in a receptacle for storage. The method may be accomplished through the use of the apparatus described above, or through any other suitable apparatus which utilises the disclosed steps.