# Improvement to dishwashing machine operation.

## Abstract
The dishwashing machine operation is improved by the provision of an additional ion exchange device for removing bicarbonate ions comprising a column 1 containing an anion exchange resin in the intake water line. The device can be installed as a separate device con nected in series either before or after the existing water softening device or in parallel or it can form an integral part of the water softening device. The invention enables the use of lower alkaline detergent products.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method for improving the dishwashing machine operation in that it enables the use of detergent products of lower alkaline content, comprising the removal of both the water hardness cations as well as the bicarbonate anions from the intake water entering the machine during the washing programme. 2. A method according to claim 1, characterised in that the dishwashing machine is operated with an additional ion exchange device in the intake water line comprising a column containing an anion exchange resin for removing said bicarbonate anions, in conjunction with a water softening device. 3. A method according to claim 2, characterised in that the additional ion exchange device is an integral part of a combined water softening and decarbonating system comprising a column containing a mixture of cation exchange resin and anion exchange resin. 4. A method according to claim 2 or 3, characterised in that the anion exchange resin is regenerated with NaCl.

## Description
IMPROVEMENT 10 DISH SHING MACHINE OPERATIONThe invention relates to a method for improving the dishwashing machine operation.industrial and household dishwashing machines of various types and designs are known in the art. The present invention is not concerned with the basic mechanics of such washing machines, but proposes to improve the dishwashing machine operation in that it allows the use of detergents with a lower content of alkaline ingredients.The operation of a dishwashing machine is based on the combination cf three distinct actions, viz, 1 mechanical action exerted by water spray, 2 thermal action exerted by heating, 3 physico chemical action exerted by the added detergent.Current detergent powders or liquids for use in dishwashing machine are generally highly alkaline products comprising essentially nonionic surfactant, sodium triphosphate, sodium metasilicate and chlorine bleach.Lowerinc the alkaline content of such detergent products for machinedishwashing without affecting their physico chemical performance could be an important step towards milder products and environmental consequences. All dishwashing machines are provided with a wate spftenung device, operating on the principle of removing the hater hardnesw cations, viz Ca2 and Mg2 ions, from tap water by ion exchanges using a cation exchange resin which is capable of exchanging Cat and Mg2 ions. Such a device generally comprises a column containing a cation exchange resin, through Wr t rse water is passed before entering the machine. Ma nature waters also contain bicarbonate anions HC03 which form the so called temporary hardness of the water. These ions are not removed by the water softening device containing a cation exchange resin.The invention now provides a method for improving the dishwashing machine operation in that it enables the use of detergent products of lower alkaline content, comprising the removal of both the water hardness cations as well as the bicarbonate anions from the intake water entering the machine during the washing programme.According to the invention the dishwashing machine is operated with an additional ion exchange device in the intake water line comprising a column containing an anion exchange resin for removing said bicarbonate anions from the water in conjunction with a water softening device.This device can be installed either as a separate device connected in series with the water softening device either before or after it, or in parallel therewith, or it can form an integral part of a combined water softening and decarbonating system. In the latter case the ion exchange resin column contains a mixture of cationexchange resin and anion exchange resin.In this manner the water entering the dishwashing machine will be substantially free from Ca2 , Mg2 and HC03 ions. It has been found that with such water washing can be accor plished with equally good results using a detergent product having a significantly lower alkaline content than the conventional products.Good washing results have been observed with a dishwashing machine go fied occording to the invention, using a product containing 30 sodium metasilicate, whereas in a conventional dishwashing machine the same results were only obtainable with products containing 49 50 sodium metasilicate.The anion exchange resins which can be used in the present invention are known in the art and various types are commercially available, ranging from the very basic types to the slightly acid types. Lewatit anion exchange resins, supplied by the BayerCompany, Leverkusen, Germany, are typical examples of readily available commercial products.Preferred anion exchange resins are those which can be regenerated with a solution of NaCl, as such resins will be regeneratable with the same regeneration salt as that used for regenerating the ater softening resin. Regeneration may then take place simultaneously for both water softening resin and the anion exchange resin without any special measures. An example of such resin is the commercial product Lewatit M 600 , supplied by the Bayer Company.An example of a combined ion exchange device according to the Invention for installing in a dishwashing machine is shownSchematically in the attached Figure 1. The figure shows a column 1 obtaining a mixture cf ar,ion and cation exchange resins and G contained 2 for the regenerating salt. In operation water is taker. in via line and passel through the ion exchange column, where it seftened and decarbonated at the same time before entering the machine at peint 4 .For regeneration, all or part ol the water stream can be passed through the regenerating salt aes 2 v a line 5 tr practice the whole water stream during the wash programme needs softening, but only the water stream for the main wash will need passing th otlgh the anion exchanger for decarbonation. In the curve embediment, decarbonation of the water takes place during the whole wash programme, since the water stream cannot be by passed from, the anior exchanger during pre washino and rirsin. This by passing is possible using an embodiment wherein the anion exchange device is installed separately from the watersoftening device, either in series or in parallel.Example IA column containing the anion exchange resin Lewatit M 600 was installed in the water intake line of a Flandria dishwashing machine type R 12 before the water softening device.The tap water initially contained 64 78 10 4 mole l of HCO3 . After the water passed through the anion exchange resin column, the concentrat on of bicarbonate ions was markedly reduced max. 14. 10 4 mole . Fig. 2 is a graph showing the evolution of HC03 concentration in a dishwashing machine with and without an anion exchange column, containing Lewatit M 600 , which was regenerated after each cycle with NaCl. The upper curve shows HC03 concentration in the machine without an anion exchange device.The lower curve shows HC03 concentration in the machine provided with an anion exchange device.The regeneration efficiency of NaCl2 is clearly seen from the lower curve, since a low amount of HCOQ was found after each cycle at point R.Example IIWashing experiments were made, using a Flandria type R 12 machine wherein a combined anion cation exchange device, as shown inFigure 1, is installed. The column had a capacity of 6 litres and contained 2 litres of cation exchange resin Lewatit S 100 exBayer Company and 4 litres of anion exchange resin LewatitM 600 ex Bayer Company.The machine was operated according to a programme including the regeneration of the resins, using the following detergent products. A A standard machine dishwashing powder of the following nominal composition 2 nonionic surface active agent 37 sodium triphosphate 507 sodium metasilicate 5 sodium carbonate 1.5t K dichloro cyanuric acid. B Experimental product similar to standard but containing 254 sodium metasilicate and 25 sodium sulphate. C Experimental product similar to standard but containing 30 sodium metasilicate and 20 sodium sulphate.The results were rated as follows Glasses streak B C A film A B u C spot C W A B Dishes soup plates A C B dinner plates A C B tea plates C A BKnives Forks spoons C B A forks A B C knifves C S A teaspoons A C BCoffee stains on cups ad saucers A C B.The general conclusion can be made that using the device of the invention, the effectiveness of detergent products containing 30 sodium metasilicate is comparable with that of a product containing 50 sodium metasilicate.