# Process for the preparation of 1 3 mercapto 2 D methyl propionyl L proline and derivatives thereof.

## Abstract
Prolin derivatives of the formula

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Process for preparing proline derivatives, wherein a proline compound is reacted with a derivative of 3 mercapto 2 methylpropionic acid, which process comprises converting an optically active D 3mercapto 2 methylpropionic acid, of which the mercapto function is protected, into the corresponding acid chioride, reacting the acid chloride with a L proline compound accordiny to Formula I of the formula sheet, in which R is a hydroxyl group, an amino group or a lower alkoxy group, and R1 and R2 represent independently a hydrogen atom, a hydroxyl grcup or a lower alkyl group, and liberating the protected mercapto faction in order to obtain the desired proline derivative according toFormula II of the formula sheet, in which R, R1 and R2 have the meanings indicated above. 2. Process according to claim 1, wherein R OH and R1 R2 H. 3. Proline derivatives obtained by the process according to claim 1 or 2, as well as their salts or esters.

## Description
PROCESS FOR PREPARING PROLINE DERIVATIVES The invention relates to a process for the preparation of proline derivatives by reacting a proline compound with a derivative of 3mercapto 2 methylpropionic acid, or B mercaptoisobutyric acid. Such a process is already known from the Dutch Patent Application, laid open for public inspection, No. 7701457. It describes, for example, the reaction of 3 acetylthio 2 methylpropionic acid chloride with Lproline to form 1 3 acetylthio 2 DL .methylpropanoyl L proline. Thus, the product is a mixture of diastereoisomers.As compounds that may possibly be applied in the pharmaceutical field are concerned here, and the pharmaceutical effect is often coupled to only one of the stereoisomers in the present case to the isomer showing the D configuration in the ss mercaptoisobutyric group the disadvantage attached to the above reaction is that the reaction product has still to be separated into optical isomers. The object of the present invention is to provide a process in which this separation into optical antipodes can be dispensed with.This is achieved, and the process of the invention is characterized accordingly, by that there is started from an optically active D 3mercapto 2 methylpropionic acid of which the mercapto function is protected, to convert the acid into the corresponding acid chloride, which is then reacted with a L proline compound according to Formula I of the formula sheet, in which R is a hydroxyl group, an amino group or a lower alkoxy group and R1 and R2 represent independently a hydrogen atom, a hydroxyl group or a lower alkyl group, after which the protected mercapto function is liberated in order to obtain the desired proline derivative according to Formula II of the formula sheet, in which R, R1 and R2 have the meanings indicated above.Derivatives of the L proline itself, so those wherein in the Formulae I and II of the formula sheet R OH and R1 R2 H, are preferred. The starting product D 3 mercapto 2 methylpropionic acid or D B mercaptoisobutyric acid of which the mercapto function is protected by means of one of the groups known for that purpose, is still a new compound it can be prepared in a way as described in our DutchPatent Application No. 7809121 bearing the same priority date as this application.Briefly that preparation comes to the following 1 there is started from a racemic mixture of 3 benzoylthio 2 methyl propionic acid, 2 a suitable resolving agent, such as cinchonidine, is added, 3 the cinchonidine D salt formed is crystallized out and isolated, 4 if necessary, this salt is further purified from the L isomer by recrystallization, 5 the purified cinchonidine D salt is hydrolysed, as a result of which the cinchonidine is removed, and 6 the liberated D 3 benzoylthio 2 methylpropionic acid is won and purified. If another mercapto protective group than the benzoyl group is desired, this can be replaced by the other desired protective group in the final product in a way known per se. Examples of other protective groups are acetyl, t butyloxy and benzyloxy. These and other useful protective groups are also found in the above mentioned Patent Application 7809121. In addition to the process for preparing derivatives of proline the invention also relates to the proline derivatives themselves so prepared, as well as, of course, to the salts and esters derived therefrom. In this connection the ammonium salts and alcaline earth metal salts, such as the sodium , potassium , calcium and magnesium salt, may be thought of. These can be prepared as described in the Dutch PatentApplication, laid open for public inspection, No. 7701457. When esters are concerned the lower alkyl esters are primarily thought of. The following preparation of 1 3 mercapto 2 D methyl propanoyl L proline, which was prepared in three steps from D 3 benzoylthio 2methylpropionic acid in the way indicated in the formula sheet, serves to illustrate the invention. 1.0 Conversion into the acid chloride Under nitrogen atmosphere, 50 ml of thionyl chloride purified by distillation from triphenylphosphite were added to 33.6 g of D 3 benzoylthio 2 methylpropionic acid Ea 3 D 450 1X in 96 ethanol . The mixture was set to stirr in a water bath of 40 C, in the course of which a homogeneous liquid mixture formed slowly. After approximately 6 hours the gas evolution had largely finished. By dissolving each time a small amount of the reaction mixture in methanol and chromatographing this solution on a TLC plate the course of the reaction could be followed.When all the acid had disappeared, 25 ml of 1,2 dichloroethane were added.The volatile components were removed from the mixture under reduced pressure, at a temperature between 40 and 450C, after which D 3 benzoylthio 2 methylpropionic acid chloride remained in an almost quantitative yield as an oil, being colourless to light yellow. 2.0 Reaction of the acid chloride with L proline With stirring and at a temperature of OOC, 6 g of the acid chloride obtained above were added to a solution of 2.3 g of L proline in 100 ml of acetone and 5 ml of dimethylaniline. A solution was obtained after 15 minutes stirring. After additional stirring for 45 minutes at a temperature of 0 C, the mixture was poured out into 100 g of ice water and 5 ml of concentrated HCl. The organic layer was separated and the water layer was extracted three times with 100 ml of methylene chloride.The methylene chloride extractions were combined with the organic layer to one organic phase, which was washed with 100 ml of ice water 4 ml of concentrated HCl and rewashed twice with 100 ml of ice water. After drying over magnesium sulphate and evaporation of the organic solvents, 6.5 g about 100 of crude 1 3 benzoylthio 2 D methylpropanoyl Lproline were obtained. 3.0 Debenzoylation The 6.5 g of 1 3 benzoylthio 2 D methylpropanoyl L proline obtained under 2.0 were dissolved in 50 ml of methanol. Under nitrogen atmosphere, this solution was added at OOC to a solution of 3.24 g of NaOCH in 100 ml of methanol. The resulting solution was stirred for 1 hour at O C and then poured out on a mixture consisting of 100 g of melting ice and 30 ml of concentrated HCl.After the mixture had been concentrated by evaporation under reduced pressure to a volume of approximately 100 ml, the residue was extracted with 6 x 50 ml of methylene chloride. The combined methylene chloride layers were extractedthricewith 50 ml portions of a 5 solution of sodium bicarbonate in water. The assembled bicarbonate layers were acidified with concentrated HCl to a pH 1, saturated with NaCl, and extracted with 6 x 50 ml of methylene chloride. After combining these six extractions the organic phase thus formed was concentrated by evaporation.The result was 4.7 g 84 of crude 1 3 mercapto 2 D methylpropanoyl L proline which appeared as an oil showing a light brown colour, and which solidified slowly.Treatment of the crude product with hexane to which methylene chloride had been added, resulted in a crystalline product having a melting point of 100.9 102.9 C and an a 2 D 127.40 1X in 96 ethanol . It is also possible to carry out the three steps without isolating the intermediate products. A preparation thus performed resulted as well in a yield of 84 , based on the starting compound D 3 benzoylthio 2methylpropionic acid. As a later preparation in which, compared with the one referred to above, changes with respect to the solvent, reaction time and work up process had been introduced, yielded better results, further particulars of that process are set out below.The first step conversion into the acid chloride passed off identically.The second step reaction of the acid chloride with L proline proceeded as follows Witty stirring and at a temperature between 0 and 50C, the acid chloride was dosed out, in approximately one hour, to a solution of L proline 5 excess in dichloromethane and 2 equivalents of dimethylaniline, the solution being kept under nitrogen atmosphere. The coupling process completed reaction time over 4 hours , the reaction mixture was poured out on ice and diluted HCl. The organic layer was separated, washed twice with diluted HCl, in order to remove all the dimethylaniline and excessL proline, and rewashed twice with water. After drying by means of magnesium sulphate the dichloromethane was distilled off. The yield of crude product a thick oil was between 95 and 100 . The third debenzoylating step proceeded as follows The crude product obtained above was dissolved in methanol. Under nitrogen atmosphere, 2 equivalents of NaOCH3 were added to that solution at a temperature of OOC. The stirring was continued for about 2 hours until the reaction had finished.The reaction mixture was neutralized with acetic acid to pH 5 and, subsequently, poured out on a mixture of ice and water. The methyl benzoate, which had likewise formed, was removed from the resulting mixture by extracting the mixture three times with toluene.The methanol was then distilled from the aqueous phase under reduced pressure, the reaction mixture was acidified with HCl to pH X 1, and salted out with NaCl.The organic layer was separated. The aqueous layer was extracted approximately five times with dichloromethane until it gave a negative reaction with potassium nitroprusside. The combined dichloromethane extractions were added to the organic layer and this organic phase was dried by means of magnesium sulphate. After removal of the solvent there resulted an oil yield between 90 and 95 which had still to be crystallized. For that purpose the oil was dissolved in ethyl acetate, to which cyclohexane was then added slowly. As soon as any turbidity set in, some seed crystals were added to the solution and additional cyclohexane was dosed very slowly. The desired product crystallized out in an overall yield of 80 85 and had a melting point of 105 1070C and an Ca 129 50 1 in 96X ethanol . Instead of starting from D 3 benzoylthio 2 methylpropionic acid it is possible, of course, to utilise a D 3 mercapto 2 methylpropionic acid in which the mercapto function is protected by a group different from benzoyl. As protective groups notably those rreiferètd to in our DutchPatent Application No. 7809121, bearing the sameZaate, may be considered. The optical purity of the final product and of the various intermediate products was determined by converting the products in ways known per se into the dimer of B mercaptoisobutyric acid S CH2 CH CH3 COOH 2.Using the HPLC it is possible to determine the various ratios of the relevant optical isomers of this compound quantitatively. Thus, it was found that during the process of converting S benzoyl mercaptoisobutyric acid into 1 3 mercapto 2 D methylpropanoyl L proline the optical purity of the mercaptoisobutyric acid part underwent no change.