# Novel esters or amides of azobiscarboxylic acids and their use as polymerisation initiators.

## Abstract
Novel azo compounds are esters or substitued amides of an azobiscarboxylic acid defined by the formula CHEM in which R and R1 are independently hydrogen or a methyl group, R2 is an alkyl group containing from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, X is oxygen or a group NR3 where R3 is hydrogen or a grouping CHEM n has the value 2, 3 or 4 and p is zero or an integer from 1 to 100, preferably from 1 to 50. The compounds are useful as free radical forming initiators for the polymerisation of ethylenically unsaturated monomers, in either organic or aqueous media according to the solubility properties of the compounds.

## Claims
WE CLAIM 1. Azo compounds having the general formulaEMI12.1 in which R and R1 are independently hydrogen or a methyl group, R2 is an alkyl group containing from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, X is oxygen or a group NR3 whereR3 is hydrogen or a groupingEMI12.2 n has the value 2, 3 or 4 and p is zero or an integer from 1 to 100. 2. Compounds as claimed in claim 1, wherein p is an integer from 1 to 50. 3. Compounds as claimed in claim 1, wherein R2 in formula I is a methyl group. 4. A compound as claimed in claim 3, having the formulaEMI12.3 5. A compound as claimed in claim 3, having the formulaEMI12.4 6. A compound as claimed in claim 3, having the formulaEMI12.5 7. A compound as claimed in claim 3, having the formulaEMI13.1 8. A process of free radical initiated polymerisation of ethylenically unsaturated monomers, wherein the initiator is a compound as claimed in claim 1. 9. A process as claimed in claim 8, which is an aqueous dispersion polymerisation process as described in British Application No. 2 039 497 A and wherein the initiator is preferentially soluble in water.

## Description
NOVEL ESTERS OR AMIDES OF AZOBISCARBOXYLIC ACIDS AND THEIR USE AS POLYMERISATION INITIATORS This invention relates ta novel organic azo compounds which are useful as initiators for the polymerisation of ethylenically unsaturated monomers, more particularly for such polymerisation when carried out in aqueous or non aqueous media. The use of organic azo compounds as initiators in the aqueous emulsion polymerisation of ethylenically unsaturated monomers is well known and extensively described in the literature. Illustrative of such compounds are 2,2 azobis 2 methylpropionitrile , 4,4 azobis 4 cyanopentanoic acid , 2,2 azobis 2 cyanoethyl p benzoic acid , 4,4 azobis 4 cyano n pentanol , 2,2 azobis 4 amino 2,4dimethylvaleronitrile , and l,l azobis l cyanocyclohexane . According to the present invention there are provided azo compounds having the general formulaEMI1.1 in which R and R1 are independently hydrogen or a methyl group, R2 is an alkyl group containing from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, X is oxygen or a group NR3 where R3 is hydrogen or a groupingEMI1.2 n has the value 2, 3 or 4 and p is zero or an integer from 1 to 100, preferably from 1 to 50. The compounds of the invention are thus either esters or substituted amides of an azobiscarboxylic acid and they may contain hydroxyl groups and or oxyalkylene groups. The preferred compounds are those derived from 4,4 azobis cyanopentanoic acid where R2 in formula I is a methyl group . As an illustration of the ester group of compounds, where X in formula I is oxygen, there may be mentioned the ester of 4,4 azobis cyanopentanoic acid with the monomethyl ether of polyethylene glycol of molecular weight 2000 hereR is methyl, R1 is hydrogen, R2 is methyl, n is 2 and p is approximately 44. As illustrations of the amide group of compounds, where X in formula I is NR3, there may be mentioned 4,4 azobis cyanopentanoic acid ethanolamide, where R, R1 and R3 are hydrogen, R2 is methyl, n is 2 and p is zero 4,4 azobis cyanopentanoic acid diethanolamide, where R andR1 are hydrogen, R2 is methyl, R3 is CH2CH20H, n is 2 and p is zero and the amide of 4,4 azobis cyanopentanoic acid with a amino X hydroxypoly oxyethylene of molecular weight 1600, where R, R1 and R3 are hydrogen, R2 is methyl, n is 2 and p is 33. The compounds of the invention may readily be obtained by the reaction of the appropriate azobiscarboxylic acid halide with the appropriate hydroxy or amino compound, in known manner in the presence of a hydrogen halide acceptor. Thus, 4,4 azobis cyanopentanoyl chloride can be obtained by treatment of the acid with thionyl chloride and then reacted with diethanolamine in the presence of pyridine or 2,6 lutidine. Where it is desired to produce an ester, i.e. a compound according to formula I where X is oxygen, it is preferred that the group R should be a methyl group in other words, one hydroxyl group of the glycol or poly oxyalkylene glycol with which the acid halide is reacted should be etherified, in order to avoid the formation of a complex condensation product.Suitable starting materials include ethylene glycol monomethyl ether, diethylene glycol monoethyl ether and the monomethyl ether of polyethylene glycol, mol.wt. 2000. However, in the case of the production of an amide, where X is NR3 and the acid halide is reacted with an alkanolamine or a hydroxypoly oxyalkylene amine, it is not necessary for the hydroxyl group to be etherified since the amino group is relatively much more reactive towards the carboxyl halide group.Suitable hydroxyamines include, for example, ethanolamine, diethanolamine, isopropanolamine, diisopropanolamine and a amino w hydroxypoly oxyethylene having a molecular weight of about 1600. The last named of these substances can be obtained by oxyethylation of the ketimine derived from methyl isobutyl ketone and ethanolamine, followed by hydrolysis of the ketimine grouping. During the reaction of the azocarboxylic acid halide with the hydroxy or amino compound, the temperature should be kept below 300C and preferably below 100C. The reaction may if desired be carried out in a suitable inert solvent, such as tetrahydrofuran. Azo compounds according to the invention are valuable as free radical forming initiators for the polymerisation of ethylenically unsaturated monomers. According to their physical properties, they may be especially suitable for specific polymerisation procedures. Thus, certain members of the class are preferentially soluble in organic media, for example those in which the oxyalkylene groups are mainly derived from propylene oxide these are consequently suitable for initiating polymerisation of monomers in bulk or in solution. Other members of the class are, in contrast, preferentially soluble in water, more particularly those in which the oxyalkylene groups are exclusively oxyethylene groups. These compounds are useful as initiators in aqueous emulsion polymerisation processes, or in the aqueous dispersion polymerisation processes described in published British Application No.2 039 497A. The invention is illustrated but not limited by the following Examples, in which parts are by weight. EXAMPLE 1 4,4 Azobis cyanopentanoic acid 50g was dissolved in tetrahydrofuran 500 ml and pyridine 2 ml was added. The mixture was stirred and cooled ice water in a l litre Florentine flask fitted with a dropping funnel and calcium chloride drying tubes. Thionyl chloride 200 ml was added dropwise with continued stirring and cooling over a period of 2 hours. After the mixture had then stood for 1 hour at 15 C, infra red spectral examination showed complete conversion of the acid to the acid chloride. Excess thionyl chloride and solvent were then removed under reduced pressure, giving a viscous yellow liquid which was dissolved in dichloromethane 200 ml . The resulting solution was divided into two equal portions. To one of the portions of acid chloride solution, there was added with stirring and cooling, over a period of 30 minutes, a solution of dry diisopropanolamine 65g, three times the stoichiometric amount in dichloromethane. After standing at 20 250C for 16 hours, the reaction mixture was filtered and the solvent removed under reduced pressure, giving a yellow brown oil 47.6g . The oil was dissolved in methanol and passed through a column of Amberlite IR 120 ion exchange resin H form Amberlite is a Registered Trade Mark which had previously been equilibrated with methanol, in order to remove any material bearing unreacted amino groups.Removal of solvent under reduced pressure gave a pale yellow liquid 30 g which, from the results of infra red spectral examination, was concluded to be essentially the diisopropanolamide of 4,4 azobis cyanopentanoic acid having the formula EMI5.1 This product was insoluble in methyl methacrylate but soluble in water. EXAMPLE 2 To the second of the portions of acid chloride solution obtained as described in Example 1 there was added with stirring and cooling over a period of 30 minutes, a solution of dry ethanolamine 30g, about three times the stoichiometric amount in dichloromethane. After standing at 20 25 C for 16 hours, a brown precipitate had formed this was removed by filtration and washed with dichloromethane 200 ml . The filtrate and washings were combined and the solvent removed under reduced pressure, giving a yellow oil 19g , which was dissolved in methanol and passed through a column of Amberlite IR 120 ion exchange resin H form which had previously been washed with methanol. Removal of the solvent under reduced pressure gave a yellow oil 9.8g which, from the results of infra red spectral examination, was concluded to be essentially the ethanolamide of 4,4 azobis cyanopentanoic acid having the formula EMI5.2 The product was readily soluble in water but much less soluble in methyl methacrylate. The infra red spectrum exhibited bands inter alia at 1555 cm 1,1655 cm 1, 1730 cm 1, 2950 cm l and 3300 3500 cm 1. EXAMPLE 3 A solution in tetrahydrofuran 200g of the acid chloride of 4,4 azobis cyanopentanoic acid , prepared by the method described in Example 1 from the acid 18g , was added dropwise, with stirring and cooling so as to keep the temperature below 100C, to a solution of diethanolamine 90g , dried by azeotropic distillation with cyclohexane in tetrahydrofuran 300g . The reaction mixture was left overnight, during which time it separated into two layers.The clear upper layer was decanted and concentrated under reduced pressure to give a pale yellow, viscous liquid which was soluble in water and insoluble in methyl methacrylate, On examination by infra red spectroscopy it exhibited absorptions at 3325 cm l and 2900 cm 1 hydroxyl groups 1 2290 cm1 nitrile , 1715 cm l ester and 1610 cm l amide . The product was concluded to be essentially the diethanolamide of 4,4 azobis cyanopentanoic acid having the formulaEMI6.1 EXAMPLE 4A. Preparation of a Amino Hvdroxypoiy oxyethylene The ketimine from methylisobutylketone and ethanolamine, prepared by condensation of the starting materials in the presence of acid, was reacted with sufficient ethylene oxide to give a final molecular weight of about 1600.In order to hydrolyse the ketimine grouping, loOg of the oxyethylated material was dissolved in water, acetic anhydride 30g was added and the mixture was allowed to stand at room temperature for 16 hours. The water and other volatile material were removed under reduced pressure and the residue was dried by azeotropic distillation with toluene 50g . This product was believed to contain some oxyethylated ethanolamine, arising from the presence of some unchanged ethanolamine in the ketimine, and this impurity was removed by the following procedure. The dried product was dissolved in acetic anhydride 200 ml , heated at reflux temperature for 90 minutes and then kept in a closed vessel at room temperature for 16 hours.Volatile material was removed under reduced pressure and the residue was dissolved in chloroform about 150 ml , then washed with aqueous sodium carbonate solution. The organic layer was evaporated under reduced pressure and the residue suspended in water 250 ml the suspension was filtered through beds of powdered diatomaceous earth Celite 545 Registered TradeMark and of activated charcoal and the filtrate passed successively through columns of anionic and cationic ion exchange resins Amberlite IRA 400 OH form and Amberlite IR 120 H form respectively Registered Trade Marks .The volume of eluate was brought to about 200 ml with water and sodium hydroxide log was added. The mixture was heated with stirring under reflux for 6 hours, neutralised with 2N sulphuric acid and extracted with chloroform 100 ml .The extract was washed with aqueous sodium carbonate solution 3 x 50 ml and then with portions of distilled water until the chloroform layer was neutral. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the residue dried by heating at 60 C under lmm Hg pressure. The product was essentially pure a amino X hydroxypoly oxyethylene of mol.wt. 1600. B. Reaction with 4,4 azobis cyanopentanoyl chloride . 4,4 azobis cyanopentanoic acid 7.0g was dissolved in tetrahydrofuran 60 ml and pyridine 7 drops added. Thionyl chloride 25 ml was then added dropwise with stirring and cooling, keeping the temperature below 200C, and the mixture allowed to stand at room temperature overnight. Volatile reagents and the solvent were removed under vacuum oil pump and the residual white slurry was mixed with tetrahydrofuran 30 ml and a portion 2 ml of the mixture was added with stirring to a solution of the product of stage A 10 g in tetrahydrofuran 25 ml containing pyridine 15 drops . The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 hours and solid material then removed by filtration.Examination of the filtered solution by infra red spectroscopy showed, in addition to peaks attributable to polyethyleneglycol groupings and tetrahydrofuran, small absorptions at 1645 cm l amide grouping and at 1735 cm l ester grouping , the former peak having about twice the area of the latter. This indicated that a minor part of the aminohydroxypoly oxyethylene had reacted with the acid chloride via the hydroxyl group rather than via the amino group. The solution was evaporated under reduced pressure, giving a colourless, waxy solid 14.5g .The greater part 13.5g of this material was freed from the ester impurity by dissolving it in methanol and passing it through a column of Amberlite IR 120 H form ion exchange resin, following which the methanol was removed under reduced pressure to yield a colourless waxy solid 9.0g which was soluble in both water and methyl methacrylate separately but preferentially soluble in water in the presence of methyl methacrylate. The product was concluded to be essentially the amide of 4,4 azobis cyanopentanoic acid with a amino X hydroxypoly oxyethylene , having the formula EMI9.1 EXAMPLE 5 4,4 azobis cyanopentanoic acid 18g and pyridine 1 ml were dissolved in tetrahydrofuran 200 ml , and thionyl chloride 70 ml was then added dropwise to the stirred, cooled solution over a period of 2 hours. After a further 1 hour, excess thionyl chloride and solvent were removed under reduced pressure and the residue was dissolved in tetrahydrofuran 200 ml . A solution of the monomethyl ether of polyethylene glycol, mol.wt. 200 loOg in tetrahydrofuran 450 ml was added dropwise to this solution, over a period of 12 hours, and the reaction mixture was kept at 150C for 2 days. The reaction mixture was then concentrated under reduced pressure, dissolved in methanol and the solution passed through a column of Amberlite IRA 400 OH form ionexchange resin. The eluate was concentrated under reduced pressure, giving a residue slog which on examination by infra red spectroscopy showed a small peak at 2250 cm 1 nitrile group and a large peak at 1740 cm 1 ester group .This material was a waxy solid which was soluble in both water and methyl methacrylate separately but preferentially soluble in water in the presence of methyl methacrylate. The product was concluded to be essentially the ester of 4,4 azobis cyanopentanoic acid with the monomethyl ether of polyethylene glycol, mol.wt. 2000, having the formula EMI9.2 The following Examples 6 8 illustrate the use of some of the above described initiators in an aqueous dispersion polymerisation process as described in publishedBritish Application No. 2 039 497A. The polymer latices obtained were subjected to determination of particle size and distribution by means of the Nanosizer RegisteredTrade Mark , an instrument marketed in the U.K. by CoulterElectronics Ltd.The results of this determination are expressed by two numbers, e.g. 3 361 the first number is a measure of the degree of polydispersity of the latex particles on an arbitrary scale from 0 monodisperse to 10, and the second number is the average size of the particles in nanometres. EXAMPLE 6 The amide of 4,4 azobis cyanopentanoic acid with a amino w hy dr oxypoly oxyethy lene of mol.wt. 1600 l.Og was dissolved under an atmosphere of nitrogen, in a mixture of water 30g and methanol 50g contained in a roundbottomed flask and stirred by means of a magnetic follower.The flask was fitted with a reflux condenser. Methyl methacrylate 3g and butyl acrylate 3g were added and the contents of the flask were then heated to 65 70 C by means of a water bath. After 25 minutes, a milky white turbidity appeared and, after a total of three hours, a bit free polymer latex was obtained. Nanosizer examination of the product gave a result of 1 613. EXAMPLE 7 The procedure of Example 6 was repeated, using a monomer charge of methyl methacrylate 6g in place of the mixture of methyl methacrylate and butyl acrylate. After the reaction mixture had been heated for 1 hours, examination of the resulting latex by Nanosizer gave the result 6 612. EXAMPLE 8 The methacrylic acid ester of the monomethyl ether of polyethylene glycol, mol.wt. 2000 1.38g was dissolved in a mixture of water 30g and methanol 50g methyl methacrylate 6g and the diethanol amide of 4,4 azobis cyanopentanoic acid 0.138g were then added.The reaction mixture was stirred and heated at 65 700C water bath for 3 hours. The resulting latex was free from bits and Nanosizer determination gave a result of 3 361.