# Detergent.

## Abstract
This invention relates to detergent particularly but not exclusively for use in domestic dishwashing. The detergent is a mobile liquid comprising not more than 6 water and not less than 90 of active detergent including an anionic surface active agent, coco nut oil ethanolamide and a non ionic polyether. The detergent is self thickening when diluted to 7 to 50 aqueous solutions.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A mobile liquid detergent characterised in comprising not more than 8 water, and not less than 90 of active detergent, including an anionic surface active agent, an ethanolamide derivative of coconut oil and a non ionic polyether. 2. A detergent as claimed in claim 1, characterised in comprising not less that 92 of active detergent, not more than 1 polyethylene glycol and not more than 4 glycerin. 3. A detergent as claimed in claim 1 or 2, characterised in that 7 to 50 aqueous solutions of the detergent have a viscosity not less than 200 centistokes and are capable of passing a dishwashing test as herein defined. 4. A detergent composition as claimed in claim 3, characterised in forming 8 to 10t aqueous solutions having viscosities of 500 to 1000 centistokes. 5. A detergent as claimed in claim 3, characterised in that 15 to 45 aqueous solutions have a viscosity not less than 200 centistokes. 6. A detergent as claimed in any preceding claim characterised in comprising a polyether selected from an alkylphenyl polyether or a polyether derived from aliphatic alcohol selected from alcohols having 13 to 15 carbon atoms alcohols having 17 or 18 carbon atoms or a mixture of oleyl and cetyl alcohols. 7. A detergent as claimed in any preceding claim characterised in that the anionic detergent comprises dodecylbenzenesulphonic acid or a salt thereof. 8. A detergent as claimed in any preceding claim, characterised in comprising an anionic detergent selected from an alkyl sulphate or an anionic detergent represented by the formula CnH2n 1 O CH2CH2O m SO3X wherein n is 12 or 15, m is 2 or 3 and X is Na, K, NH4 or an ethanolamine. 9. A detergent as maimed in any of claims 6 to 8 characterised in comprising a polyether represented by the formula CrH2r 1 C6H4O CH2CH2O sH wherein r and s are integers. 10. A detergent as claimed in claim 9, characterised in that r is 8 or 9 and s is 6 to 12. 11. A detergent as claimed in claim 10, characterised in that a major proportion of the polyethers have r equal to 8 or 9 and s equal to 6 or 9 and comprise a greater proportion of polyethers having s 6 than having s 9. 12. A detergent as claimed in any preceding claim, characterised in comprising 5 to 12 monoethanolamine or triethanolamine. 13. A detergent as claimed in any preceding claim, characterised in comprising a greater percentage of anionic detergent than polyether. 14. A detergent as claimed in any of claims I to 7, or claims 12 or 13 when not appendent on claims 8 to 11 characterised in comprising 15 to 25 of dodecylbenzenesulphonic acid. 15. A detergent as claimed in any of claims 8 to 11 characterised in comprising 8 to 25 of dodecylbenzenesulphonic acid and an amount equivalent to 10 to 30 of a 70 solution of an alkyl or ether sulphate. 16. A detergent as claimed in any preceding claim, characterised in comprising 15 to 33 of said ethanolamide. 17. A detergent as claimed in claim 30 or 31, characterised in comprising 1 to 5 of polyether wherein r is 9 and s is 12, 25 to 45 of polyether wherein r is 9 and s is 6 and 2 to 10 of polyether wherein r is 9 and s is 8 or 9. 18. A detergent as claimed in claim 17, characterised in comprising 1 to 3 of polyether wherein r is 9 and s is 12, 30 to 45 of polyether wherein r is 9 and s is 6 and 5 to 10 of polyether wherein r is 9 and s is 8 or 9. 19. A detergent as claimed in any preceding claim characterised in comprising ingredients selected from 7 to 30 of a solution equivalent to a 70 solution of an anionic detergent of the formula CnH2n 1 O CH2CH2O m SO3X wherein n is 13 or 15, m is 3, X is Na, K, NH4 or an ethanolamine, 25 to 50 of nonylphenyl polyether 5 to 40 of coconut oil diethanolamide and residual proportions of ethanolamine and triethanolamine. 20. A detergent as claimed in claim 19, characterised in comprising ingredients selected from 7 to 15 of dodecvlbenzenesulphonic acid 15 to 25 of the said solution of anionic detergent 30 to 45 of nonylphenyl polyether 20 to 35 of coconut oil diethanolamide 1 to 4 of ethanolamine, and 2 to 5 of triethanolamine. 21. A detergent as claimed in claim 19 or 20, characterised in comprising a total of 50 to 65 of nonylphenyl polyether and coconut oil diethanolamide. 22. A detergent as claimed in any of claims 20 or 21, characterised in comprising a total of 20 to 35 of dodecylbenzenesulphonic acid and the said anionic detergent.

## Description
DETERGENT This invention relates to detergent particularly but not exclusively for use in domestic dishwashing although it may find industrial or alternative domestic applications. Percentacecompositions used in this specification are by weight unless indicated otherwise. According to the present invention a mobile liquid detergent comprises not more than 8 water and not less than 90 of active detergent, including an anionic surface active agent, an ethanolamide derivative of coconut oil, and a non ionic polyether. An active detergent is a surface active agent, a 0.01 aqueous solution of which exhibits a surface tension of not more than 45 dyne cm 4.5 x 10 2Nm li Preferred detergents in accordance with this invention comprise not less than 92 active detergent, not more than 1 polyethylene glycol and not more than 4 glycerin. Detergents in accordance with this invention have an advantage that they do not contain a large proportion of water, thereby facilitating economical transportation and packing. Furthermore, use of inactive thickening agents such as sodium chloride in compositions which have been diluted for use is unnecessary since detergent in accordance with this invention thicken upon dilution with water alone. A first preferred composition may be diluted to a 7 to 50 aqueous solution having a viscosity not less than 200 centistokes and being capable of passing a dishwashing and foam test as hereinafter defined.More preferred compositions may be diluted to 7 to 20 aqueous solutions having these properties. A second preferred higher foaming composition may be diluted to a 15 to 45 aqueous solution having a viscosity not less than 200 centistokes and being capable of passing a dishwashing and foam test as hereinafter defined. The non ionic polyether may comprise an alkylphenyl polyether or a polyether derivative of an alcohol. Preferred alcohol polyethers may be derived from c13 C15 or c17 c18 aliphatic alcohols or from mixtures of oleyl and cetyl alcohols. Especially preferred compositions may be diluted to 8 to 10 of their strength to produce solutions preferably having viscosities of 500 to 1000 centistokes, but solutions showing viscosities up to 2000 centistokes may also be obtained. The dishwashing and foam test is performed as foilows. Sodium chloride 2.5 , gelatine 2.5 , caramel 5t , instant potatr 9,5to, fat Trex or Tesco Registered Trade Mark lard 68t , and water 12.58 are warmed and mixed together. The mixture is placed in a refrigerator for 24 hours and is removed from the refrigerator at least 30 minutes before use. A portion 5g of the mixture is applied to the surface of each plate used in the test and the plates are then left to stand for 1 hour. The plates are 23cm in diameter and are white in colour. A portion 0.5g of the detergent solution is placed in one end of a polyethylene bowl having internal dimensions of 33cm x 29cm and a depth of 13cm and which is inclined at an angle of 250 to the horizontal.Water 5t at a temperature of 540C is allowed to run onto the detergent through an aperture 6mm in diameter located 40cm above the detergent. The bowl is arranged horizontally when half of the water has been added and the remaining water is allowed to pour into the opposite end of the bowl thereby providing a good foam covering the entire water surface. A second bowl is filled with water for rinsing the plates. Two soiled plates are immersed into the water and a stopclock is immediately started. After 20 seconds the first plate is washed and rinsed. A third plate is then immersed below the second plate and the second plate is then washed. A fourth plate is then immersed below the third and the process is repeated until there is no foam remaining on the surface of the water.The final temperature of the water must not be less than 450C. The test is repeated ten times and the mean taken. The detergent passes this test if eight or more plates can be washed before the foam dissipates when using a diluted solution equivalent to a maximum concentration of 0.01 of the concentrate detergent. The ethanolamide derivative of coconut oil may be a monoethanolamide or diethanolamide derivative. These.may be formed by reacting coconut oil or the methyl ester thereof with either monoethanolamine or diethanolamine in the presence of sodium methoxide. The major constituent of coconut oil is the triglyceride of dodecanoic acid although shorter and longer chain triglycerides are also present. Preferably the anionic detergent is a salt of dodecylbenzenesulphonic acid or a mixture of salts of alkylbenzenesulphonic acids of which a major constituent is dodecylbenzenesulphonic acid. Suitable mixtures may be either broad cut or narrow cut, that is there may be greater or lesser variation in the lengths of the alkyl chains. Narrow cut mixtures are preferred. The dodecylbenzenesulphonate is soft. There should be no propylene tetramer present. Alternatively or in addition the anionic detergent may comprise an alkyl sulphate, or an alkyl ether sulphate. These sulphates are advantageous for production of detergents with good foaming properties.Alkyl sulphates may be derived from linear alk l ene having 12 to 18 carbon atoms for example sodium lauryl sulphate.Preferred alcohol sulphates may be derived from products of the OXO or Ziegler processes. Preferred ether sulphates are derived from ethylene oxide and may comprise a major proportion having the general formula CnH2n 1 O CH2CH2 0 m wherein n is 13 or 15, m is 2 or 3 and X is Na, K, NH4 or an ethanolamine. Preferred detergents in accordance with the invention incorporates an alkylphenyl polyether such as OH terminated polyether. The latter may be formed by reacting an alkyl phenol with ethylene oxide. Preferred polyethers incorporate nonyl or octyl alkyl chains or mixtures including major proportions of such chains. Preferred polyethers may comprise mixtures of polyether chains with major proportions of chains having 6 or 9 CH2CH20 units or, more preferably, major proportions of both 6 and 9 CH2CH20 unit containing chains. A greater proportion of chains having 6 CH2CH20 units to chains having 9 CH2CH20 units is particularly preferred. Smaller proportions of polyethers with larger ether chain lengths may be incorporated for example having 12 CH2CH2O units. Preferred detergents in accordance with this invention incorporate a base. Preferred bases include monoethanolamine, diethanolamine, triethanolamine or potassium or sodium hydroxides. Monoethanolamine and triethanolamine are particularly preferred. Detergents in accordance with this invention may be selected from a wide range of compositions in which the proportions of the ingredients are chosen so that 7 aqueous solutions of the detergent exhibit a viscosity of at least 200 centistokes and have adequate cleaning properties in accordance with the plate washing test. The cleaning capabilities and foam end point of detergents in accordance with this invention are dependent on a number of factors. The ratio of anionic detergent to nonionic detergent is important, an excess of non ionic detergent being preferred. The ratio of anionic detergent to insoluble polyethers is also important, a greater proportion of anionic detergent having been found to increase the solubility of the polyether constituent. Preferably the detergent incorporates not more than 30 of anionic detergent estimated as the free acid. More preferably there is between 15 and 255 of dodecylbenzenQs onic acid present in detergents which do not contain alkyl or ether sulphates. If the latter compounds are present the preferred proportion of dodecylbenzenesulphonic acid is 8 to 25 . The proportion of alkyl or ether sulphate is preferably 10 to 30 based on the weight of the commercially available solutions, the latter containing approximately 70 of the pure compounds. The proportion of the ethanolamide derivative of coconut oil has an important effect of the viscosity of the detergent. The derivative also serves to stabilise the foam. Preferably there is 10 to 40 of coconut oil ethanolamide present. More preferably there is 15 to 33 of the ethanolamide, a range of 20 to 30 being especially preferred. It has been found that incorporation of alkylphenyl polyethers having a side chain incorporating a small number of CH2CH20 groups is a key factor effecting the viscosity of detergents in accordance with the invention. However, such polyethers alone may be insoluble in water. Preferably the cloud point of the insoluble polyether is less than zero. Mixtures incorporating nonylphenyl polyether are particularly preferred ingredients, a wide range of ether chain lengths being advantageous. Optimum cleansing capacity has been achieved Xíth alkylphenyl polyethers incorporating six or nine CH2CH20 groups of mixtures thereof. Nonylphenyl polyethers are particularly efficacious in control of the viscosity of the diluted detergent. Nonylphenyl polyethers having a low solubility in water, notably those comprising six CH2CH20 groups are particularly preferred as a may or proportion of total polyethers in the detergent. Preferred detergents incorporate between 25 and 55 of nonylphenyl polyether. More preferably there is between 40 and 55 of the polyether. Detergents in accordance with this invention of ten incorporate a blend of nonylphenyl polyethers.For example a detergent which can be diluted to from 8 20 solutions having a viscosity not less than 300 cp may comprise 1 5 of nonylphenyl polyether incorporating 12 CH2CH2O units, 25 45t of nonylphenyl polyether incorporating 6 CH2CH20 units and 2 10 of nonylphenyl polyethers having 8 or 9 CH2CH20 units. The actual percentages of these three components are chosen so that the total percentage of polyether falls within the aforementioned range of 25 55. A particular efficacious range for the three aforementioned polyethers is 1 3 with 12 CH2CH20 units, 30 458 with 6 CH2CH20 units and 5 10E with 8 or 9 CH2CH20 units. Bases having a low molecular weight are preferred, monoethanolamine having been found to provide more viscous detergents than diethanolamine.Use of triethanolamine has the advantage of maintaining a constant pH in the detergent. Ethanolamines may be used in conjunction with sodium or potassium hydroxides, the ratio of alkalai metal hydroxide to ethanolamine being important. Preferably there is 5 to 12 of mono ,di and triethanolamine present, approximately 1.0 1.5x the stoichiometric amount based on the sulphonate and sulphate present being desirable. The amount of mono,di or triethanolamine is preferably selected so that a 10 aqueous solution of the detergent has a pH of 6.8 to 9, more preferably of 7.5 to 8.5. A relatively larger proportion of diethanolamine or triethanolamine is required if this reagent is used in place of ethanolamine since the mono derivative is the most active. Detergent in accordance with this invention may be diluted to form aqueous solutions of more than 7 strength, for example 8 , 10 , 20 , 25 and 40 . The typical viscosities of various solutions are set out below Viscosity cs Concentration 200 7 1000 8 2000 10 500 20 A particularly preferred detergent comprises ingredients not exceeding a total of 100 and comprising, 7 to 308 of dodecylbenzelesulphonic acid, 10 to 30 of a solution equivalent to a 70 solution of anionic detergent of the formula CnH2n 1 CH2CH20 m S03 wherein n is 13 or 15 and m is 3 25 to 50 of nonylphenyl polyether 5 to 408 of coconut oil diethanolamide and residual percentages of ethanolamine and triethanolamine. More preferably the detergent may comprise 7 to 15 of dodecylbenzensulphonic acid 15 to 25 of the said solution of anionic detergent 20 to 35 of coconut oil diethanolamide 1 to 4 of ethanolamine and 28 to 5 of triethanolamine. The total percentage of nonylphenyl polyether and coconut oil diethanolamide is preferably 50 to 65 . The total percentage of dodecylbenzensulphonic acid and the said anionic detergent is preferably 20 to 35 .percentage of coconut oil diethanolamide is preferably 15 to 35 . This detergent yields self thickening 10 25e aqueous solutions. Such detergents having a total percentage of polyether and coconut oil diethanolamide less than 50 form self thickening 15 to 45 aqueous solutions. The invention is further described by means of the following Examples and with reference to Table 1 and Figures 1 to 7 of the accompanying drawings which illustrate detergent formulations in accordance with the invention. Table 1 shows the compositions and properties of preferred detergents including the viscosities of 7 , 8E, 10 and 208 aqueous solutions Fig. 1 shows a 3 dimensional representation of detergent compositions in accordance with the invention Fig. 2 is a plan view of the diagram shown inFigure 1 Figs. 3 to 7 show sections taken through the diagram shown in Figures 1 and 2. EXAMPLE 1 A detergent was prepared from a nonylphenyl polyether incorporating six CH2CH20 units in the side chain 36 , dodecylbenzenesulphonic acid 308 monoethanolamine 9 , coconut oil diethanolamide 25 . A 7i aqueous solution of the detergent had a viscosity of 300 cs an 8 solution was found to have a viscosity of 1000 cs and a 10 solution was found to be thixotropic and to have a viscosity of 2000 cs on a Ford Cup No.4.5gm of the 10 solution was found to clean 9 plates according to the plate test. EXAMPLE 2 A detergent was prepared from nonylphenyl polyether incorporating six CH2CH20 units 18 , dodecylbenzenesulphonic acid 20 monoethanolamine 7 , coconut oil diethanolamide 37 and nonylphenyl polyether incorporating 9 CH2CH20 units 18 . An 8 aqueous solution of the detergent was found to have a viscosity of 210 cs and a 10 solution was found to have a viscosity of 2000 cs. 5 g of the 10 solution was found to clean 12 plates. EXAMPLE 3 A detergent was prepared from nonylphenyl polyether containing six CH2CH20 units 20 dodecylbenzenesulphonic acid 20 , monoethanolamide 7 , coconut oil diethanolamide 33 and nonylphenyl polyether containing nine CH2CH20 units 20 . An 8 aqueous solution of the detergent was found to have a viscosity of 200 cs and a 10 solution was found to have a viscosity of 2000 cs. The detergent 5g of 10 solution was found to clean 13 plates. EXAMPLE 4 A detergent was prepared from coconut oil diethanolamide 33 nonylphenylpolyether containing 9 CH2CH2O units 5 , nonylphenylpolyether containing 6 CH2CH20 units 35 , dodecylbenzenesulphonic acid 21 and monoethanolamine 6 . A 108 aqueous solution of the detergent was found to have a viscosity of 1600 cs and 7 aqueous solution was found to have a viscosity of 700 cs. The detergent 5g of 10 solution was found to clean 10 plates. EXAMPLE 5 A detergent was prepared from coconut oil diethanolamide 32.8 nonylphenvlpolyether containing 9 CH2CH20 groups 10.8E , nonylphenylpolyether containing 6 CH2CH20 groups 29.5 , narrow cut dodecylbenzenesulphonic acid 20.9 and monoe hano lamine 5.9 . The viscosity of aqueous solutions of this detergent is shown in Figure 12. EXAMPLE 6 A detergent was prepared from coconut oil diethanolamide 25 94 , nonylphenylpolyether containing 12 CH2CH20 groups 0.898 , nonylphenylpolyether containing 8 CH2CH20 groups 4.478 , nonylphenylpolyether containing 6 CH2CH2O groups 30 41E a sodium sulphated C13 Cl5 alcohol with 3 CH2CH20 groups Synperonic 3S70 a 70 commercial solution manufactured by ICI, 24.158 , dodecylbenzenesulphonic acid 8.68 , monoethanolamine 0.54 ,triethanolamine 4.47 and preservative 0.45 Ketrol T,Cochrane andKeane Chemicals . The resultant detergent yielded viscous, high foaming solutions upon dilution to a strength of 10 ,15 or 20 . EXAMPLE 7 A detergent was prepared from coconut oil diethanolamide 20 , nonylphenylpoleter containing 9 CH2CH20 groups 2 , nonylphenylpolyether containing 6 CH2CH20 groups 43 , Synperonic 3S70 20 , dodecylbenzenesulphonic acid 10 , monoethanolamine 1i and triethanolamine 4 .The resultant detergent yielded viscous detergents upon dilution to a strength of 9 to 10 . EXAMPLE 8 A detergent was prepared from coconut oil diethanolamide 25 , nonylphenylpolyether containing 6 CH2CH20 groups 25 , Synperonic 3S70 20 , dodecylbenzenesulphonic acid 20 , monoethanolamine 2 and triethanolamine 8 . The resultant detergent produced viscous detergents when diluted to strengths of 15 , 20 , 25 , 30 and 40 . A number of abbreviations are used in the following description and in the Table and Figures to which the description relates. These are set out below diethanolamine derivative of coconut oil CD nonylphenylpolyether containing six CH2CH2O units N6 nonylphenylpolyether containing 9 CH2CH20 units N9 nonylphenylpolyether containing twelve CH2CH20 units N12 dodecylbenzenesulphonic acid acid monoethanolamine MEO Table 1 shows the composition and properties of preferred detergents. The compositions of the detergents indicated by the reference numbers 18, 20, 26, 28 and 29 may be determined from Figure 7. Figure 1 is a three dimensional diagram showing the proportions of N6, N9, CD and dodecylbenzenesulphonic acid which may be present in detergents in accordance with the invention.Figure 2 is a plan view of the latter diagram. Figures 3 to 7 are sections through the diagram shown in Figures 1 and 2 showing variation of the ingredients N6, N9 and CD at constant proportions of dodecylbenzenesulphonic acid. Figure 3 illustrates the variation at D ofFigure 2 of a total of 408 of N9, N6 and CD in detergents containing constant proportions of 40 Acid, 118 MEO and a residual 9 CD. The shaded area shows the preferred compositions. Figure 4 shows the variation at D of Figure 2 of a total of 40 of N9, 5 and CD in detergents containing constant proportions of 40 Acid, 11 MEO and a residual 9 CD. The shaded area shows the preferred compositions. Figure 5 shows the variation at B of Figure 2 of a total of 60 of N9, N6 and CD in detergents containing constant proporti .s of 30 Acid, 9 MEO and a residual 1 CD. The shaded area shows preferred compositions. Figure 6 shows the variations at A of Figure 2 of a total of 705 of N9, N6 and CD in detergents containing constant properties of 20 Acid, 7 MEO and a residual 3 CD. The first shaded area shows preferred compositions including diethanolamide prepared from coconut oil or from the methyl ester thereof. The second shaded area shows additional preferred compositions including diethanolamide prepared from coconut oil only. Figure 7 Ws a section of Figure 2 taken close toFigure 6 and showing variation of a total of 70 ofN6, N9 and CD., in compositions containing constant proportions of 218 Acid. 6 MEO and a residual 3 ofCD. The two shaded areas show preferred and especially preferred compositions. Detergents including 65 or more of dodecybenzenesulphonic acid have been found to form gels or to be unstable. Detergents comprising less than 17 of the acid have been found to have poor cleaning capacity and to exhibit low foam stability.Compositions containing 10 25 of ether sulphate need only contain 8 to 15 of the acid. The ingredients NP6, NP9 and NP12 are manufactured under the Registered Trade Mark SYNPERONIC by ICI although alternative brands may also be used.Coconut oil derivatives which are useful in accordance with the invention may be obtained under the RegisteredTrade Mark ETHAN, manufactured by Diamond ShamrockProcess Chemicals Limited. Coconut oil may also be obtained from Rewo Chemicals Limited and BaxendenChemicals Limited. Dodecylbenzenesulphonic acid may be obtained from Shell, BP, CFC or Henkel. Ethanolamine should preferably be the last ingredient which is added when making detergents in accordance with this invention. Composition w w Viscosity es of Aqueous Solu nsRefNo.CD N9 N6 Acld narrow MEO 20 10 8 7 Plates an cut Othe testInfolmation 1 33 20 20 20 7 1000 less 200 10 2 43 10 20 20 7 1000 200 150 3 33 10 30 20 7 800 1000 600 210 10 4 23 20 30 20 7 1000 200 5 23 30 20 20 7 400 6 33 30 10 20 7 less 200 7 43 20 10 20 7 1000 150 8 38 20 15 20 7 1000 9 38 15 20 20 7 1500 1 10 33 15 25 20 7 1000 11 28 20 25 20 7 1000 12 28 25 20 20 7 700 13 33 25 15 20 7 200 14 53 10 10 20 7 700 1000 205 less 200 15 13 20 40 20 7 200 100 16 13 10 50 20 7 ....hazy solutions........... 17 23 10 40 20 7 hazy hazy 750 1 13 18 .........see graph................. 1000 80 13 15 20 .........see graph................. 1000 110 21 20.5 12.5 40 20 7 950 210 7 22 18 12.5 42.5 20 7 800 205 24 28 10 35 21 6 1000 115 25 10 15 45 20 7 950 120 6 26 .........see graph................. 100 28 .........see graph................. h10 300 29 .........see graph................. h 220 34 2 36 30 9 2000 1000 300 9 high fo m 35 35 50 15 solid con 42L 33 5 35 21 6 hazy 1600 700 10 53L 32.76 10.84 29.54 20.94 5.92 900 1000 1000 220 11 6R 37 18 18 20 7 1000 300 13 15 51 33 20N12 20 20 7 less 200 7 h hazy solutions 20N12 indicates that N9 is replaced by 20 of N12Table 1