# Coated abrasive having brittle agglomerates of abrasive grain and a process of producing the latter.

## Abstract
A coated abrasive product has abrasive grits secured to a flexible backing by maker and size coats, each abrasive grit consisting essentially of an agglomerate 10 of fine abrasive grains 12 having an average diameter less ihan about 200 microns and an inorganic, brittle, matrix 14 . The weight percent of the matrix 14 in each agglomerate 10 is over 35 of the total weight of the agglomerate 10 , and the agglomer ates 10 are sufficiently fragile so that they can be broken down by rubbing between the thumb and forefinger. The agglomerates 10 are essentially free of microporosity, so that the matrix 14 has a relatively high thermal capacity and a relatively high thermal conductivity. The agglomerates 10 have an irregular surface permitting a bond to the maker and size coats which is stronger than the crush strength of the agglomerates 10 to permit gradual wearing down of the agglomerates 10 during grinding by gradual removal of dul led abrasive grains 12 from the agglomerates 10 . A process of preparing agglomerates 10 consists in mix ing a fusible inorganic salt and finely divided abrasive grains 12 , fusing said inorganic salt, freezing said salt and crushing the resultant mixture to agglomerates 10 . Another process of preparing agglomerates 10 consists in mixing a solution of a polymeric inorganic salt with finely divided abrasive grains 12 , casting said inorganic salt and abrasive mixture in a thin layer, heating the layer to drive off water, hardening the layer and crushing the resultant hardened layer to agglomer ates 10 .

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An abrasive product comprising abrasive grits iXeId in an abrading position by a binder, characterized by the abrasive grits consisting essentially of an agglomerate of fine abrasive grains having an average diameter less than 200 microns and an inorganic, brittle, matrix, the weight per cent of the matrix in each agglomerate being over 35 of the total weight of the agglomerate, said plurality of agglomerates being sufficiently fragile that they can be broken down by rubbing between the thumb and forefinger, said agglomerates being essentially free of microporosity, whereby the matrix has a high thermal capacity and high thermal conductivity, said agglomerates having an irregular surface. An An abrasive product according to claim 1, charac erized by the abrasive grains having a size equal to or fines than 100 grit, said matrix bond being selected from the class consisting of A low temperature fused grinding aid salts and B polymeric inorganic salts containing a grinding aid salt, said matrix having a softness of less than 4 morns and being essentially free of microporosity. 3. A coated abrasive product having abrasive grits secured to a flexible backing by maker and size coats, charac terized by each abrasive grit consisting essentially of an agglomerate of fine abrasive grains having an average diemeter less than 200 microns and an inorganic, brittle matrix, the weight per cent of the matrix in each agglomerate being over 35 of the total weight of the agglomerate, said agglomerates being sufficiently fragile that they can be broken down by rubbing between the thumb and forefinger, said agglomerates being essentially free of microporosity, whereby the matrix has Åa relatively high thermal capacity and relative ly high thermal conductivity, said agglomerates having an ir regular surface permitting a bond to the maker and size coats which is stronger than the crush strength ol the agglomerates to permit gradual wearing down of the agglomerates during grinding by gradual removal of dulled abrasive grains from the agglomerates. 4. A coated abrasive product according to claim 3, characterized by the matrix bond serving to limit the depth of penetration into the workpiece of the individual abrasive grains during the grinding action and thereby providing the surface finish comparable to the surface finish utilizing unagglomerated abrasive grains of the grit size of the individual grains in the agglomerates. 5. A coated abrasive product according to claim 3 or 4, characterized by said agglomerates having a crush strength as measured by the Crush Test of less than 201b. in. 2 mil., said matrix having a softness of less than 4 mohs. 6. A coated abrasive product according to claim 3, 4 or 5, characterized by each abrasive grit consisting essentially of an agglomerate of fine abrasive grains having a size equal to or finer than 100 grit, said matrix comprising a solvent for said abrasive grain and said agglomerates being formed at a sufficiently elevated temperature that said matrix is molten and slightly dissolves the abrasive grains to visibly round the corners thereof. 7. The product of any preceding claim, characterized in that the matrix includes cryolite. 8. The product of any preceding claim, characterized tin that the matrix consists essentially of fused cryolite. 9. The product of any one of claims 1 to 7, characterized in that the matrix consists essentially of the reaction product of cryolite and a water soluble silicate. 10. A process of preparing abrasive grits, characterized by mixing a fusible inorganic salt and finely divided abrasive grains, fusing said inorganic salt, freezing said salt and crushing the resultant mixture to agglomerates having a grit size at least 3 grit numbers larger than the fine abrasive grains, the weight per cent of inorganic salt being at least 35 of the total agglomerate weight. 11. A process according to claim 10, characterized in that the abrasive grains are at least slightly soluble in said molten salt binder. 12. The process of preparing abrasive grits, characterized by mixing a solution of a polymeric inorganic salt with finely divided abrasive grains, casting said inorganic salt and abrasive mixture in a thin layer, heating the layer to drive off water and harden the layer, crushing the resultant hardened layer to agglomerates having a grit size at least 3 sizes larger than the fine abrasive grains the weight per cent of polymeric inorganic salt being at least 35 of the total agglomerate weight.

## Description
COATED ABRASIVE HAVING BRITTLE AGGLOMERATES OF ABRASIVE GRAIN This invention relates to abrasive agglomerates particularly suitable for the production of coated abrasive products which provide a fine finish to the metal being abraded. Fo many years the coated abrasive industry has worked with various agglomerated abrasive grains as abrasive grits to be used in the manufacture of coated abrasive products. Typical of the older patents in this area is the Jackson Patent U.S. 2,194,472 issued March 26, 1940 Carborundum . In this patent fine abrasive grits are held together by a very minor percentage on the order of 2 5 of an organic or clay bond. The formed aggregates are then bonded to the surface of a sheet by a normal maker adhesive. Another patent in this same general area is Brown U.S. 2,358,313 issued September 19, 1944 3M wherein fine aluminum oxide grains are preferably mixed with a lesser amount of garnet and then fired to vitrify the garnet tobform relatively large bodies of agglomerated aluminum oxide and fused garnet. These bodies are then crushed and graded to obtain the abrasive aggregates. A later patent is the Ball et al U.S. 2,740,239 issued April 3, 1956 Bay State which shows the use of the Jackson type agglomerates on an open mesh abrasive product. More recent activity is represented by Toward and Sowman U.S. Patent 3,916,584 issued November 4, 1975 3M , Wagner U.S. Patent 3,928,949 issued December 30, 1975 Hermes and Lohmer German Auslegeschrift 26 08 273 published September 8, 1977 carborundum . The Wagner patent Hermes shows hollow organic spheres whose surfaces carry a layer of a very fine absasivxO Ths spheres are then secured to the surface of the backing to form a coated abrasive product.The Howard et al patent 3M shows composite abrasive agglomerates in which very fine, hard, abrasive grains are distributed through a porous metal oxide matrix which is formed by sintering. TheCarborundum German patent shows a number of abrasive agglomerates formed with an organic bonding matrix which is porous. The product may also contain an active filler in the agglomerate. The most recent U.S. Patent in this general area is Oberbichler 4,021,208 issued May 3, 1977 Tyrolit . While this patent appears primarily to be directed to a grain for bonded abrasive products, such as grinding wheels, it does have a statement that it can be utilized for abrasive coated paper.In this Tyrolit patent there is no bonding agent, as such, for bonding the fine abrasive aluminum oxide grains together rather the aluminum oxide is sintered to form a porous compact and the pores are thereafter at least partially filled with an active filler such as a halide, sulfide or the like. The present invention providers abrasive grits and coated abrasive products made therefrom where the grits constitute agglomerates of fine abrasive grains, there being preferably many abrasive grain8 in each grit. The abrasive grains are held in the agglomerates by an inorganic, brsttie, matrix bond, the volume percent of the bond being preferably greater than the volume percent of the abrasive grains in these agglomerates. Ihisbrittle matrix bond has a relatively high thermal conductivity and a relatively high heat capacity so that the abrading operation runs cooler than a comparable abrasive grain operating without the high heat capacity brittle matrix bond. This matrix bond is essentially free of microporosity i.e the type of microporosity typical of conventionally sintered products and typical 3of prior art prcducta made with intestitial voids so as not to interfere with its thermal conductivity and heat capacity.The agglomerates preferably have a crush strength as measured by the crush test described hereinafter of less than 20 lbs.in2 but greater than mull 10 1bs. in The matrix preferably has a hardness of mil less than about 4 mohs so that the agglomerates can be broken down by rubbing a plurality of agglomerates between the thumb and forefinger. The agglomerates have an irregular surface permitting a bond to the maker and size coats which is stronger than the crush strength of the agglomerates to permit gradual wearing down of the agglomerates during grinding by gradual removal of dulled abrasive grains from the agglomerates. There are two preferred general classes of matrix bonds suitable for this invention both include a grinding aid salt. The first matrix bond consists essentially of a fused grinding aid salt. The second bond consists essentially of a silicate which contains a grinding aid salt. In this latter case the bond is not fused it is a silicate ionic bond. In the first type of bond, i.e. fusion bond, the griding aid salt is preferably, but not exclusively, one which has some solubility for the aluminum oxide abrasive grain so as to measurably dissolve the grain and provide rounded corners to the individual fine grains. This has the effect of providing for a very fine finish on the ground metal. The expression grinding aid salt is intended to include those salts which react with the metal being ground to prevent loading of the abrasive belt, to. increase the rate of cut, or to prevent rewelding of the hot metal to the piece from which it has just been removed. In those cases where the metal is stainless steel, for example, the simple and complex halides have been proven to be very effective grinding aids. Where the metal is carbon steel an oxygen supplr a as a perchlorate may serve the grinding aid function. Figs, 1, la and 2 are schematic, diagramatic and greatly enlarged cross sectional views of the agglomerates of the present invention Figs, 3 through 9 are graphs showing relative performance of coated abrasive products made in accordance with the present invention as compared to commercially available products used as controls. Referring to Fig. 1 the abrasive agglomerate is indicated by the numeral 10 as containing fine abrasive grits 12 held in a binder matrix 14. As can be seen in Fig. 1 the abrasive grains are randomly oriented in the agglomerate however the agglomerate does have rough corners 10a which permit formation of a strong mechanical bond to the maker and size coats used in normal coated abrasive manufacturing techniques. Fig. la is an enlarged diagramatic view of a portion of Fig0 1 showing in dotted lines at 12a the initial outline of an aluminum oxide abrasive grain and in full lines the rounded off corners of this grain resulting from a partial solution of the grain in the molten matrix binder eeg. when the binder is a solvent for aluminum oxide, such as is the case with cryolite. Fig. 2 is similar to Fig0 1 but in this case the product is formed by coating a mud like paste of the silicate binder onto a carrier substrate under a knife blade thus giving some orientation to the aluminum oxide grains within the agglomerate. As mentioned previously there are two preferred embodiments of the invention, both involving an active fill r, either as the bond for the fine abrasive grain, or as a major constituent thereof. In the first embodiment the matrix bond comprises cryolite which is melted with the desired fine less than 200 microns abrasive graina. The molten mass is then cooled and crushed to the desired grit size and then formed into coated arasvies piedtst using maker and size coats.In a preferred embodiment the Díze coat is an innately fr abl resin filled beycnd the critical pigment volume with a pcwdered grinding aid such as cryolite. EXAMPLE I 1500 Grams of 150 grit fused crushed aluminum oxide and 1500 grams of cryolite Na3A1F6 were thoroughly mixed and then fused in a claygraphite container at a temperature of 1050 11000C. The fused mixture was cooled to room temperature and then crushed into 50 grit and 80 grit size agglomerates. 50 Grit agglomerates will pass through A 38GG screen and be retained on a No. 3 STD. screen and 80 grit agglomerates will pass a No. 3 STD. screen and be retained on a No. 9STD. screen. These screen terms are as defined by theAmerican National Standard Institute ANSI . The aluminum oxide came from Norton Company and is sold as their commercial grade E296 having an average particle size of 100 microns and grading specifications as determined by the Coated Abrasives Manufacture s Institute CAMI .The cryolite had an average particle size of 15 microns and was obtained from Kryolitselekabet Oresund S A of Denmark. Cryolite has a mohs hardness of about 2.50 The 50t grit and 80 grit agglomerates were then coated on cloth belts having a normal maker coat of phenolic resin and about 1 2 normal thickness.The size coat was a friable, cryolite overfilled phenolic resin. Two types of size coats were used, one designated 8169 contained 428 parts of a phenclic resin 8169 C obtained from Varcum Division of ReicholdChemical Company 1426 parts of cryolite S, 200 parts of water, 80 parts of solox a denatured ethyl alcohol containing benzene and kerosene and 10 parts of Santocel Z , a silica gel. The second size coat is designated 2955 and contained 666 parts of Varcum 2955 a phenolic resin obtained from Varcum Division of Reichold , 2142 parts of cryolite 6, 450 parts of water and 200 parts of solox. The amount of the 80 tri t and 50 grit agglomerates on the products were 18 1bs ream and 22 1bs ream, or about 270 g m2 and 330 g m2, respectively.This was calculated to give 135 grams and 165 grams of 150 grit aluminum oxide per square meter of cloth, respectively. A commercial Resinall Metallite Type 8 coated abrasive sold by Norton Company was obtained as a standard control product. This has been coated with 150 grit aluminum oxide with about 15 Sc lbs ream or 220 grams per square meter of aluminum oxide grain. The experimental product and standard were then tested on 1018 steel and 304 stainless steel in accordance with the following procedure. Belt Testing Approximately ten workpieces of either 10188 or 304SS were pre roughed on a modified bench backstand grinder by an appropriate coarse grit belt. The belt chosen would provide a scratch pattern of 250 300 micro inches in for subsequent testing of 150 grit products, or 150 220 in for testing of 220 grit products. The sample belts, containing either agglomerate grain systems or conventional control grains, measured 2 1 2 x 60 and were tested on the same grinder used for pre roughing. The traverse or scan speed of the contact wheel was 7 surface feet per minute SFPM , while the belt speed was 5000 SFPM for 1018s and 3000 SFPM for 304SS. In all cases, the direction of motion of the belt was parallel to the long axis of the workpiece. Workpieces were bar stock that measured approximately 1 x 2 x 10 t these were tested on their l side, and scanned back and forth for their entire 10 length, which required a total period or interval of 15 sec. Grinding was conducted under the constant force of 10 lb or 20 lb dead weights that provided constant interfacial pressures of 20 or 40 psi, assuming 1 2 in2 of belt was in contact with the workpiece. roughed workpiece was used in three such fiteen ze ond test intervals, with weight loss in grams and finish readings in p in. recorded after each interval. rhis could have allowed estimates on rate of finish refinement, but in almost all cases the first interval in each set of 3 was sufficient to bring the finish readings down to their equilibrium value at the pressures and interval durations used here. Between sets of 3 intervals, old workpieces were removed and new pre roughed workpieces were emplaced. Twenty to fifty such intervals thoroughly characterized cut and finish behavior, but the real endpoint for testing was based on rate of cutO Testing for any product was stopped after that interval in which the rate of cut i.e., grams loss was less than a predetermined fraction of the rate of cut of the control product in its first interval IROC C . This predetermined fraction was 1 4, 1 3, or 1 2 the IROC c, depending on the type of test and other conditions.However, 1 3 was most commonly used. The data thus generated were used in a computer program to provide several types of characterizing numbers, such as relative cut, total cut in grams, life in minutes, extrapolated initial cut, average rate ofcut, and slope of the function log cummulative but ve log 1 time . The latter has been shown to be a straight line for almost all realistic product testing situation. The parameters are defined in the Glossary of Terms following Table I. Analogous characterizing numbers were also generated for finish behavior using a modification of the same computer program. The results of these tests are shown in Table I. Disc Testing Several workpieces of 1018 steel were re roughed with a slightly worn, 7 , 24 grit NORZO disc on a bench mounted disc grinder. This provided a 250 350 in scratch pattern. Other relevant conditions were disc r.p.m. 3450 angle between the plane of the disc and the workpiece 100 disc scan rate r 7 SFPM workpiece dimensions 1 4 x 3 x 15 e Sample testing with agglomerate grain systems and conventional control grains was performed using 7 discs in single, one minute intervals. This required the discs to scan back and forth approximately eight times. A 15 lb dead weight provided about 9 p.sei interfacial pressure on the 3 side of the workpieces.These were renewed at each interval after weight loss and finish readings were taken. The determination of end point was the same as that for belt testing, and the same computer program was used for data reduction of cut and finish behavior. TABLE ITest Besults with 1 1 Cryolite to 150 Grit Al2O3 Fusion Agglomerates at 40 psi Test Pressure Products made by Example I Product Metal RC TC g RL L m A g m I g m Sc Sf F in Grit Size Type Size Coat 150 Al2O3 Standard Control 1018S 100 49 1.0 1.8 27 31 .87 .88 48 80g Agg 8169 Size 1018S 236 117 2.3 4.2 28 33 .94 .78 41 80g Agg 2955 Size 1018S 273 135 2.4 4.3 32 38 .92 .85 44 50g Agg 8169 Size 1018S 437 216 4.0 7.2 30 37 .94 .85 51 Fig.3 150 Al2O3 Standard Control 304SS 100 9.6 1.0 1.0 9.4 9.3 .71 .86 57 80g Agg 8169 Size 3304SS 364 35.0 2.8 2.8 12.6 15.2 .90 .84 30 Fig.4 80g Agg 2955 Size 304SS 355 34.1 2.7 2.7 12.6 15.7 .86 .83 52 50g Agg 8169 Size 304SS 502 48.2 3.9 3.9 12.3 15.7 .85 .89 64 In the above table and in the drawings the abbreviations have the following meanings GLOSSARY OF TERMS EROC g i The ending rate of cut, in either grams or per interval or grams per minute, chosen EROC g m as the end point for a specified test and product Usually determined as the average of measured initial rates of cut divided by 3, but any divisor can be used the EROC could also be selected arbitrarily. RELCUT The relative total cut, in percent, of the or RC test product compared to a control or reference product. TOTCUT g The total cut in grams achieved upon tor TC g reaching the EROC determined by linear interpolation when between tasting intervals.LIFE m The elapsed time in minutes for a product or L m to reach the EROC determined by linear interpolation when between testing intervals. AROC g m The average rate of cut in grams per or A g m minute shown by a product over its lifetime defined as TOTCUT LIFE.IROC g m The approxirnate true initial rate of cut, tor I g m derived from extrapolating function log cumulative out versus log 1 cumulation time .SLOPE The slope of the log log function above or s, Ranges between 0.000 and 1.000 the closer Sc the value is to 1.000, the better, meaning that a product loses rate of cut more slowly. REGCOEF The regression coefficient of the log log or RCF0 function an indicator of how well, the function describes the data. If this value is 1.000, the fit is perfect if less than two nines 0.9900 , then the function may not be suitable. INTERVALS r The chosen number of intervals upon which or TNT3 to base the IROC g m and slope, for which the REGCOEF measures the goodness of fit. This number of intervals usually is chosen to be at least 5, but also one or two intervals short of the EROC. RL The ratio of the LIFE in minutes of test REL LIFE product to the LIFE in minutes of control product. SF The slope of the log log function above as applied to finish readings in micro inches on the substrate metal, i.e. slope of log cumulative finish vs log 1 time The The average finish in micro inches on the substrate metal over a product e life time. As a visual example, Fig. 3 shows the performance results of one test product from Table I solid line compared with the control product open circles on the 1018 steel. Fig. 4 shows the test results of another of these products 80 grit tested against 304 stainless steel. EXAMPLE II In this case 220 grit aluminum oxide is used in place of the 150 grit aluminum oxide of Example I.It was also obtained from Norton Company. The aluminum oxide had an average particle size of about 70 microns, and conventional grading specifications as determined by CAMI. The cryolite was the same as that used inExample I however the weight ratio of cryolite toA1203 was 3 2 rather than the 1 1 of Example I. This material was coated to an agglomerate weight of 16 lbs ream or 96 grams per square meter of aluminum oxide on abrasive belts, and given a size coat with resins similar to those in Example I. A conventional product exhibits a grain weight of about 12 lbs ream or 180 g m2 of aluminum oxide grain. These products were tested on 1018 steel and 304 stainless steel at 20 and 36 p.s.i. The results of these tests are shown in Table II below. TABLE IITest Results with 3 2 Cryolite to 220 Al2O3 Grain Fusion AgglomeratesProduct Metal PSI RC TC g RL L m A g m I gm Sc SF F in Grit Size Type Size Coat 220 Al2O3 Standard Control 1018S, 100 33.5 1.0 2.8 11.8 15.9 .82 .87 31 20 psi 120 Agg, 8169 Size 169 56.4 1.9 5.4 10.4 12.0 .96 .83 30 120 Agg, 2955 Size 198 66.4 2.1 5.9 11.3 12.9 .98 .86 30 220 Al2O3 Standard Control 1018S, 108 31.2 1.0 1.4 22.1 25.8 .80 .91 33 36 psi 120 Agg, 8169 Size 173 54.0 1.9 2.7 19.9 21.5 1.03 .80 32 120 Agg, 2955 Size 189 59.0 1.9 2.7 21.6 24.3 .99 .86 32 220 Al2O3 Standard Control 304SS 100 4.9 1.0 1.1 4.4 4.7 .67 .94 34 20 psi 120 Agg, 8169 Fig.5 625 30.9 5.2 5.7 5.4 6.7 .95 .88 28 120 Agg, 2955 Size 576 28.4 4.7 5.2 5.4 7.2 .88 .86 29 Fig. 5 shows an example of one test product from Table II as compared to the control product on 304SS at 20 p.s.i. EXAMPLE III In the second system for forming the abrasive agglomerates of the present invention, the binder is a silicate containing an active filler such as cryolite. In the preferred embodiment, 2 parts by weight of grain such as 150 grit aluminum oxide of the type utilized in Example I above are mixed with 2 parts of cryolite of the type described in Example I, and with 1 part of potassium silicate solution gold by Sauereisen under the designation Binder µ65. These silicates upon cure normally have a mohs hardness of less than 2.This produced a mixture having the consistency of mortar which was then deposited in cookion lized extrusion. on a silicone release substrate, dried in a hot air oven at 2500F, and crushed to about 80 grit size. A similar batch was prepared utilizing a 8 4 3 ratio of cryolite to 150 grit aluminum oxide to Binder num 65. Both formulations were then formed into product. of coated abrasive belts utilizing the same general techniques described in Example I above.They were tested against a commercial 150 grit aluminum oxide belt sold by Norton Company under the designation Resinall Metalite Type 8. The test results from these two experimental products against the commercial standard on 1018 steel and 304 stainless steel are shown in Table III. TABLE IIITest Results with Silicate Binder Agglomerates Using 150 Al2O3 Grain at 40 p.s.i.Product Metal RC TC g RL L m A g m I g m Sc SF F in Grit Size Type Ratio Size Coat 150 Al2O3 Standard Control 1018S 100 65 1.0 2.6 25 32 .83 .86 38 80 Agg, 2 2 1, 8169 1018S 183 119 1.6 4.2 28 34 .95 .80 38 80 Agg, 2 2 1, 2955 Fig.6 1018S 198 129 1.8 4.7 28 33 .97 .91 39 80 Agg, 8 4 3, 8169 1018S 218 143 2.2 5.7 25 25 1.08 .94 46 80 Agg, 8 4 3, 2955 1018S 207 136 1.7 4.5 30 32 1.04 .90 54 150 Al2O3 Standard Control 304S 100 12 1.0 1.6 7.6 9.0 .70 .88 45 80 Agg, 2 2 1, 8169 304SS 556 66 3.6 5.8 11.3 17.0 .83 .95 46 80 Agg, 2 2 1, 2955 304SS 577 68 3.8 6.1 11.2 18.1 .79 .89 45 80 Agg, 8 4 3, 8169 Fig.7 304SS 593 70 3.9 6.3 11.1 14.1 .93 .97 41 80 Agg, 8 4 3, 2955 304SS 671 79 4.3 6.9 11.5 16.8 .87 .85 40 2 2 1 2 cryolite 2 grain 2 binder 8 4 3 8 cryolite 4 grain 3 binder Fig. 6 sows an example of one test product from Table III using the 2 2 1 formulation as compared to the control product on 1018 steel. Fig. 7 shows an example of one test products from Table III using the 8 4 3 formulation as compared to the control product on 304SS. EXAMPLE IV In another embodiment of the second system for forming abrasive agglomerates of the present invention, the silicate binder and cryolite are premixed with a solution containing a surface active agent. These have been termed Silicate Paste Binder or SPB agglomerates.In the preferred embodiment, grain such as 150 grit aluminum oxide of the type in Example I is added to the above pre mixture to form a thixotropic or shearthinning paste which was then coated under a knife on silicone release paper to a wet thickness of about 1 8 .The paste on its coated paper was cured to a semi dry, rubbery state for 20 30 minutes at 275 300 P and drawn through a roll flexer to break the resulting greenstate crude into 2 long x 1 2 wide strip The strip.were collected on trays and heat soaked for 2 hers. at 2500F. The formulation of the preferred embodiment on a weight basis is 38 parts cryolite 32 parts 150 A O grain 24 parts num 65 Silicate Binder and 2 parts of 0.2 Aerosol OT solution. Aerosol OT is manufactured byAmerican Cyanamid Corporation. Other organic BR inorganic surface active materials could be used as well. The fully cured crude was crushed to about 70g sizes and made into both abrasive cloth belts and vulcanized fiber discs. Results from testing on belts are similar to those in Table III. Results from testing testing with fiber discs are shown in Table IV. TABLE IVTest Results with SPB and Cryolite Fusion Agglomerates inFiber Discs at 9 p.s.i., using 150 Al2O3 GrainProduct Metal RC TC g RL L m A g m I g m Sc SF F in Grit Size Type Size Coat 150 Al2O3 Standard Control 1018S 100 43.8 1.0 4.2 10.5 16.9 .67 .87 54 70g Agg, Ex.IV 8169 1018S 191 83.4 2.0 8.6 9.7 14.3 .85 .76 45 70g Agg, Ex.IV 2955 Fig.8 1018S 392 171.8 4.4 18.6 9.2 19.2 .77 .78 32 90g Agg, 55 45 8169 1018S 306 134.1 3.2 13.5 10.0 17.9 .80 .95 46 90g Agg, 55 45 2955 1018S 377 165.1 3.7 15.7 10.6 19.2 .81 .87 38 Fig.9 55 45 55 cryolite 45 grain Included also in Table IV are results from tGtutintg of fiber discs coated with cryolite fusion agglomerates made essentially as in Example I but on a batch scale of hundreds of pounds and using the formulation 55 45 cryolite 150A O grain. These were crushed to about 90 grit sizes. Fig. 8 shows the performance on 1018S of one test product from Table IV using the Silicate PasteBinder SPB formulation compared to the 150 grit control product, Resinall Fiber Disc, Type 6 manufactured by Norton Company. Fig. 9 shows the performance on 1018S of another test product fromTable IV that used the large batch fusion agglomerates with 55 45 formulation compared to the same control used in Fig. 8. Crush Test In order to characterize the agglomerates and differentiate these products from agglomerates of the prior art, the following test method was developed.Agglomerates whose crush strength is to be measured are vibrated into a settling cell which has an internal cylindrical diameter of 1 2 and is 1 deep. This 1 by 1 2 cylinder is then completely filled and this accurately controlled amount is then deposited and settled into a measuring cell also having a 1 2 cylindrical diameter but of greater depth. A compression piston of 1 2 diameter is fitted. into the measuring cell after the deposited agglomerates have been vibrated into maximum loose pack density. An Instron Stress StrainTester having a 1000 lb. force cell and a compression cage was used with a cross head speed of 0.5 inches per minute. The amount of eompression in mils was measured at 50 lb. force and at 500 lb. force levels and the difference was divided into the difference in force per 2 cell area, e.g. 450 lbs. divided by 0.1963 in. divided by the measured mils of compr6ssion. Measured data were taken from a strip chart recorder attached to the Instron Tester, The test data obtained re listen i 1 Table IV below. TABLE VI Crush Stengths of Aaglomerates 1bs inFusion Agglomerates mil 1. 55 45 CR 150 A1203, in SOg Agg 15 2. 1 2 CR Bauxite 150 A1203, in 80g Agg 18 3. 1 3 CR 150 A1203, in 80g Agg 12 4. 3 2 CR 220 A1203 in 120g Agg 20Silicate Binder Agglomerates 1. 2 2 1 CR 150 Al2O3 5865, in 80g Agg 12 2. 8 4 3 CR 150 A1203 S num 65, in 80g Agg 10 3. EX. IV 38 32 24 2 ,70g Agg 150 A1203 ii Based on these test results, it would appear that the value of 10 is probably the lower limit of crush strength that can be conveniently handled.Although, if care is taken in utilizing the agglomerate, a somewhat lower crush strength might be used, particularly in those cases where the size coat is somewhat stronger and serves to partially reinforce the agglomerates. With respect to the upper limit of crush strength, whila it s possible to go as high as 25 or 30, it is believed that at these higher crush strengths, the surface finish will suffer and the finish will be more representative of the finish comparable to the grit size of the agglomerate rather than the grit size of the individual grains making up the agglomerate. The present invention has many advantages, enumerated below, which contribute to a greatly improved product. While many of these advantages are present, individually, in the prior art none of the prior art, so far as is known, contains so many of these advantages grouped together. These advantages include 1. Cooler grinding operations. The product of the present invention will provide a cooler grinding e.g. lower temperatura sparks, workpieces, and abrasive products than comparable grinding utilizing the same abrasive grit in the same grinding operation but without the agglomerates of th present invention. This is believed to be true because of its improved cutting efficiency, and the longer lifetime before the heatproducing end period.This is believed to be due to the heat sink characteristic of the matrix binder resulting from the high thermal conductivity of the binder and the lack of microporority of the binder. 2. Controlled gradual attrition of the agglomerates. This arises from the relatively weak intra agglomerate bond of the matrix binder. 3. Intimate contact of a grinding aid with the grain workpiece interface. This result. from the fact that the grinding aid is either the matrix binder itself or it is present in large quantities in the matrix binder inthe preferred embodiment of the invention.This means that the grinding aid is present in the exact place where it i. needed. This provide. the possibility of using less total grinding aid than as required if the grinding aid is put in the size coating, for example. 4. Longer life from higher attainable grain weights, if desired. Agglomerates permit a higher total amount of grain to be applied to a given area of the coated abrasive product for a given grit size of the individual abrasive grain.The coated abrasive product can continue to cut long after a single layer of individual grits would have been destroyed. Alternatively, the amount of grain in agglom ratag can be reduced far below 50 of the agglomerate weight, resulting in grain weight ranging from 1 2 to 2 3 those of conventional products while still providing relative cut and life 100 to 500 greater.That is, the agglomerate concept develops a higher grain efficiency, with each abrasive grain able to do more work than in conventional products. 5. Large and more uniform rats of cut.This stems from the fact that, since the agglomerates are more widely spaced than individual grains, there can be higher unit pressures on each cutting grain as it operates. This provides higher rates of cut, and the wide spacing deters nloading of the abrasive surface.The longer life of the cut results from the fact that as one individual grain is used up it is torn out of the agglomerate and the next lower abrasive grain starts to go to work. 6. Improved activity in electrostatic fialds.Salt matrix agglomerates generally and those based on the silicate binder, in particular, have extreme activity in an electrostatic field for electrostatic coating of the agglomerates on the fresh maker coat. It has been found that only 8 to 10 thousand volts are required for coating the 80 grit agglomerates of 150 grit aluminum oxide.This contrast to 25 to 35 thousand volts required for coating regular 80 grit aluminum oxide 150 grit aluminum oxide requires 15 to 25 thousand volts under the same conditions. 7. Improved anchoring of the agglomerates in the maker and size coats. This results from the sharp corners and edges on the agglomerates to provide a strong mechanical bond to the maker and size coats. This mechanical bond to the maker and size coats is stronger than the intraagglomerat bond between the individual abrasive grain. 8. A finer and more uniform finish behavior than conventional products in the major portion of product lifetime, beyond the break in period. This results from the fact that individual abrasive grains are very fine and they act as very fine grains during cutting. Also the rate of cut is more typical of the size of the agglomerate rather than the size of the individual grain doing the cutting. The more uniform rate and more uniform finish results from the gradual attrition of the agglomerate. The finer finish also is attributed to the massive amount of matrix binder which is present in the gt3iomerate to limit the depth of penetration into the workpiece of the individual grain.during the grinding action, thereby providing a surface finish comparable to the surface finish utilizing unagglomerated abrasive grains of the grit size of the individual grains in the agglomerates. While aluminum oxide has been mentioned above in connection with the preparation of these particular abrasive agglomerates, numerous other abrasive materials, such as silicon carbide and the various aluminum oxide alloys such as alumina zirconia may be employed. Similarly, other matrix binders can be utilized. The principal requirements for these binders being that they be relatively inexpensive materials, that they be relatively inexpensive to prepare and that the bond between the individual grains has the degree of friability desired to permit discard of the individual abrasive grains after they have become dulled as a result of the grinding operation.As mentioned previously it is preferred that the matrix binder be present in a weight percent of at least 35 and preferably with a volume percent greater than the volume percent of the abrasive grain and that it be an inorganic brittle material. Without intent to limit the invention the following crystalline inorganic materials could potentially be utilized in the fusion system of Example I. TABLE V Additional Salt Systems for Potential Use in Fusion Agglomerates SolOH O DensityCompound Formula MP C c Hoi 9 cc Aluminum Fluoride A1F3 1040 s s 3.07Calcium Metaphosphate Ca P03 2 975 i i 2.82Potassium Carbonate K2CO3 891 112 156 2.43Potassium Chromate K2CrO4 968 63 79 2.73Potassium Dichromate K2Cr2O7 398 5 102 2.69Potassium Fluoborate KBF4 530 .4 6.3 2.50Potassium Nitrate XNO3 334 13 247 2.11Potassium Fluoride KF 880 92 V.So 2.48Potassium Sulfate K2SO4 1076 12 25 2.66Sodium Carbonate Na2CO3 851 7 46 2.51Sodium Fluoaluminate Na3ALF6 1000 sl.s. 2.90Sodium Dichromate Na2Cr2O7 320 180 430 2.52Sodium Tungatate Na2WO4 698 4.18Sodium Fluoborate NaBF4 384 108 210 2.47Sodium Fluoride NaF 990 4.2 2.79Sodium Nitrate NaNO3 307 73 180 2.26Sodium Metaphosphate NaP03 628 21 s 2.48Sodium Sulfate Na2SO4 884 4 50 2.70Calcium Metaborate Ca B02 2 1154 sl.s Calcium Fluoride CaF2 1360 .0016 3.18Potassium Chloride KCL 776 35 57 1.98Sodium Chloride NaCl 801 36 39 2 17Cuprous Chloride CuCl 422 0062 3.53Zinc Orthophosphate Zn3 PO4 2 900 i i 4.00Cuprous Floride CuF 908 i Magnesium Choride MgCl2 708 54 73 2.32Sodium Disilicate Na2Si205 874 s sManganese Fluoride di MnF2 856 i d 3.98 Values from Hdbk Chem Phys., 44th Ed., by Chemical Rubber Pub. Co. Included for comparison Chlorides may cause stress corrosion cracking in critical applications of some stainless steels. For the ionic system of the type of Examples III and IV typified by the use of a silicate solution nonlimiting examples of other materials which can be used in place of, or in addition to, the silicates, with or without conventional mineral fillers, are Salt Binder Additions and SubstitutionsSodium Fluoborate NaBF4 Plastic of Paris CaSO4.1 2 H20 Potassium Orthophosphate K3PO4 Sodium Sulfate Na2SO4 Calcium Metaborate CatBO2 2 SodiumMetaborate Peroxyhydrate NaBO2.H2O2 PotassiumPentaborate KB508.4H20 Potassium Pyrophosphate K4D2O7.3H2O Sodium Tripolyphosphate Na5P3010 Potassium Hexafluorophosphate KPF6 Potassium Peroxydisulfate K2S208 Potassium Pyrosulfat X2S207 In general these are the partially soluble silicates, sulfates, borates and phosphates of alkali metal cations which tend to form polymeric inorganic salts. It is felt that the size coat performs a very significant function in the present invention since it serves to anchor the relatively fragile agglomerates firmly to the coated backing. As a result of the size coat and maker coat combination the mechanical bond to the backing is stronger than the intraagglomerate bond between the individual abrasive grains. Each agglomerate is firmly held so that it can make the individual abrasive grains available to the surface to be ground as the grains at the top surface are gradually dulled and discarded. If this mechanical bond is not adequately strong the whole abrasive agglomerate will be ripped from the backing rather than having the individual grains torn from the agglomerate, which is the desired effect. At the same time, the size coat deposited on the sides and top of the anchored agglomerate must be itself friable enough to war away at matched attrition rates with the agglomerate. In the preferred embodiment, size coats of innately friable phenolic resins filled beyond the critical pigment volume overfilled with conventional mineral fillers have provided these charActeristic.