# 1 Benzoyl 3 pyridinyl ureas, their use as insecticides, their preparation and formulations containing them.

## Abstract
Compounds of formula The compounds are prepared by the reaction of a ben zoyl isocyanate or isothiocyanate with an amnopyridine.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A compound of formula I EMI123.1 wherein R1 is halogen or C13 alkyl EMI123.2 R3 is PC1 5 alkyl, C3 5 alkenyl containing noG.ss unsaturation, C1 5 haloalkyl, C4 8 cycloalkyl, C 2 5 alkoxyalkyl or is phenyl optionally substituted by halogen, C1 3 haloalkyl or haloalkoxy, C1 3 alkyl or methoxy R4 and R5 are the same or different groups selected from hydrogen halogen, methyl or methoxy m and n are the same or different and can each represent 0 or 1 X is oxygen or sulfur and the nitrogen to pyridine bond is at the 2or 3 position of the pyridine ring provided that A both of R4 and R5 cannot be hydrogen 5, and when one of R and R5 is hydrogen the other is chloro and R3 is phenyl substituted by a trifluoromethyl group B when the nitrogen to pyridine bond is at the 2 position the Rê CH2 n R guoup is at the 5position and C when the nitrogen to pyridine bond is ot the 3 position the Rê CH2 nR group is at the 6position or an acid addition salt or N oxide thereof. 2. A compound of formula I as claimed in claim 1 in which R4 and R5 are independently chloro, fluoro, methyl or methoxy R1 is chloro, methyl or ethyl R3 is 1 when n 1, phenyl or substituted phenyl, and 2 when n 0, substituted phenyl, in either instance, substituted phenyl being a 3,5 dimethylphenyl or b a radical of the formulaEMI124.1 wherein each Z independently represents 1 Br, 2 C1, or 3 F Zl represents 1 CF3, 2 OCF3, 3 0C2F5, or 4 OCF2CF2H and Z represents 1 methyl, 2 ethyl, or 3 methoxy with the further limitation that the entire substituted phenyl radical bears 1 at least one Z or Z 2 not nore than 4 substi tuents, when all substi tuents are halo substi tuents 3 not more than 3 substi tuents, when any one sub stituent is other than halo and 4 not more than 2 different substituents and wherein positions on the pyridine ring are as follows 1 when the nitrogen to pyridine bond is at the 2 position of the pyridine ring, R1 is at the 4 or 6 position of the pyridine ring and 2 when the nitrogen to pyridine bond is at the 3 position of the pyridine ring, any R is at the position of the pyridine ring or an acid addition salt or N oxide thereof. 3. A compound of formula I as claimed in 4 claim 1 wherein R and R5 independently represent chloro, fluoro, methyl or methoxy R1 is C1, CH3, or C2G5 at the 5 position of the pyridine ring and R2 is C1 5 alkyl, C3 5 alkenyl containing no alpha ,ss unsaturation, nono or dibromo C1 5 alkyl, C1 5 chloroalkyl, C1 5 fluoroalkyl,C4 6 cycloalkyl or C25 alkoxyalkyl, X is 0, the nitrogen to pyridine bond is at the 3 position and n is O, or an acid addition salt thereof. 4. A compound of formula I as claimed in claim 3 wherein R is a branched C3 5 alkyl or cyclohexyl group. 5. A compound of formula I as claimed in claim 1 which has the structure EMI126.1 wherein R4 and R5 are independently chloro, fluoro, methyl or methoxy. 6. A compound as claimed in any preceding claim wherein R4 and R5 are chlorp, fluoro, or methoxy. 7. A compound as claimed in claim 1, 2, 4 or 6, wherein X represents oxygen. 8. A compound as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein R2 represents 0 or S. 9. A compound as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 4 to 8, wherein the nitrogen to pyridine bond is at the 3 position of the pyridine ring, the1 R2 CH2 R group is at the 6 position and any R1 is at the 5 position. 10. a compound as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein in the group Rê CH2 n R , R is phenyl when n 1 , 3 bromophenyl, 4 bromophenyl, 3 chlorophenyl, 4 chlorophenyl, 2, 4 dichlorophenyl, 2, 5 dichlorophenyl, 3, 4 dichlorophenyl, 3, 5 dichlorophenyl, 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl, 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl, 3,5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl, 3 trifluoromethyl 4 chloro phenyl, 4 trifluoromethyl 3 chloro phenyl, 4 fluorophenyl, 2,3,5,6 tetrafluorophenyl, 3 methyl 4 chlorophenyl, 3 methyl 4 bromophenyl, or 2 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl. 11. A compound selected from 1 2,6 dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 4 chlorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 4 chlorophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 4 chloro phenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2, 6 dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 4 chloro benzylthio 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 4 chlorophenylsulfonyl 3 pyridinyl ures, 1 2,6 dichlorobenzoyl 3 5 methyl 6 4 chlorophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 dichlorobenzoyl 3 5 methyl6 4 chlorophenylsulfonyl 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2, 6 dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 4 chloro benzyloxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 2,4 dichlorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 2,4dichlorobenzylthio 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3 chlorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3,5 dichlorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 2,5 dichlorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3,4 dichlorophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3,4dichlorophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2, 6 dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3,4 dichlorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3 methyl 4chlorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea, l 2,6 dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 2,3,5,6 tetrafluorophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2, 6 dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 2,3,5,6 tetrafluorophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3 bromophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2.6 dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 4 bromophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 4 bromophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3 tri fluoromethyl phenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3 tri fluoromethyl phenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 dichlorobenzoyl 3 5 methyl6 3 trifluoromethyl phenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2, 6 dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 2 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 benzylthio3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2, 6 dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 benzyloxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 diflurobenzoyl 3 6 4 chlorophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 difluorobenzoyl 3 6 4 chlorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 difluorobenzoyl 3 6 3 tri fluoromethyl phenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 difluorobenzoyl 3 6 3 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea, l 2,6 dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3,5 bis trifluoromethyl phenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3,5bis trifluoromethyl phenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3,5 bis trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3,5bis trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea, l 2,6 dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3 trifluoromethyl 4 chlorophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3 trifluoromethyl 4 chlorophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3,5 dichloro phenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3,5dichlorophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 difluorobenzoyl 3 6 3,5 dichlorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2 chloro 6 methoxybenzoyl 3 6 3,5 dichlorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2 fluoro 6 methoxybenzoyl 3 6 3,5 dichlorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2 chloro 6 fluorobenzoyl 3 6 3,5dichlorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 2 chloro5 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 difluorobenzoyl 3 6 2 chloro5 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2 chloro 6 methoxybenzoyl 3 6 2 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2 fluoro 6 methoxybenzoyl 3 6 2 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2 chloro 6 fluorobenzoyl 3 6 2 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2 chloro 6 methyoxybenzoyl 3 6 3 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2 fluoro 6 methoxybenzoyl 3 6 3 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2 chloro 6 fluorobenzoyl 3 6 3 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 2,4 dichlorobenzyloxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2, 6 dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 2,4 dichlorobenzyloxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 difluorobenzoyl 3 6 2,4 dichlorobenzyloxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2 chloro 6 methoxybenzoyl 3 6 2,4 dichlorobenzyloxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2 fluoro 6 methoxybenzoyl 3 6 2, 4 dichlorobenzyloxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2 chloro 6 fluorobenzoyl 3 6 2,4dichlorobenzyloxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 4 chloro3 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 4 chloro3 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 difluorobenzoyl 3 6 4 chloro3 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2 chloro 6 methoxybenzoyl 3 6 4 chloro 3 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2 fluoro 6 methoxybenzoyl 3 6 4 chloro 3 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2 chloro 6 fluorobenzoyl 3 6 4 chloro 3 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2.6 dichlorobenzoyl 3 5 chloro 6 3 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3,5 di methoxyphenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3,5dimethoxyphenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 difluorobenzoyl 3 6 3,5 dimethoxyphenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea, l 2 chloro 6 methoxybenzoyl 3 6 3, 5 dimethoxyphenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2 fluoro 6 methoxybenzoyl 3 6 3,5 dimethoxyphenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2 chloro 6 fluorobenzoyl 3 6 3,5 dimethoxyphenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 tert butylthio 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 tert butylthio 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 cyclohexyl thio 3 pyridinyl urea, 1 2,6 dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 cyclohexylthio 3 pyridinyl urea, and 1 2,6 difluorobenzoyl 3 6 cyclohexyl thio 3 pyridinyl urea. 12. An insecticidal formulation which comprises as an active ingredient a compound of formula I or N oxide or acid addition salt thereof, as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 11, associated with at least one carrier or diluent thereof. 13. A compound of formula I or N oxide or acid addition salt thereof, as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 11, for use as an insecticide. 14. A method of suppressing undesired species of insects which comprises applying to the locus of those insects a compound of formula I or acid addition salt or N oxide thereof as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 11. 15. A process for the preparation of a compound of formula I or an acid addition salt or N oxide thereof as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 11, by the reaction of a benzoyl isocyanate or benzoyl isothiocyanate of the formulaEMI134.1 with an aminopyridine of the formulaEMI134.2 or an N oxide thereof.

## Description
1 BEN20YL 3 PYRIDINYL UREAS, THEIR USE, PREPARATION AND FORMULATIONS This invention relates to a series of novel urea derivatives which have been found to be particularly effective in the suppress ion of undesired species of insects, to their preparation, use and to insectiidal formulations containing t novel derivatives. Similar compounds possessing a 3 pyrazinyl substituent have been described in United StatesPatent No. 4,083,377. According to the present invention there is provided a compound of formula I EMI1.1 wherein R1 is halogen or C1 3 alkl EMI1.2 R3 is C1 5 alkyl, C3 5 alkenyl containing no alpha ,ss unsaturation, C1 5 haloalkyl, C4 8 cycloalkyl, C2 5 alkoxyalkyl or is phenyl optionally substituted by halogen, C1 3 haloalkyl or haloalkoxy, C1 3 alkyl or methoxy R4 and R5 are the same or different groups selected from hydrogen, halogen, methyl or methoxy m and n are the same or different and can each represent 0 or 1 X is oxygen or sulfur and the nitrogen to pyridine bond is at the 2or 3 position of the pyridine ring provided that A both of R4 and R5 cannot be hydrogen and when one of R4 and R5 is hydrogen the other is 3 chloro and R3 is phenyl substituted by a trifluoro methyl group B when the nitrogen to pyridine bond is at the 2 position the Rê CH2 n R group is at the 5 position and C when the nitrogen to pyridine bond is R3 at the 3 position the R2 CH2 n group is at the 6position or an acid addition salt or N oxide thereof. Preferred compounds of the invention are those in which R4 and R5 are independently chloro, fluoro, methyl or methoxy R1 is chloro, methyl or ethyl R3 is 1 when n 1, phenyl or substituted phenyl, and 2 when n 0, substituted phenyl, in either instance, substituted phenyl being a 3,5 dimethylphenyl or b a radical of the formulaEMI3.1 wherein each Z independently represents 1 Br, 2 C1, or 3 F zl represents 1 CF3, 2 OCF3, 3 OC2F5, or 4 OCF2CF2H and Z represents 1 methyl, 2 ethyl, or 3 methoxy with the further limitation that the entire substituted phenyl radical bears 1 at least one Z or zl, 2 not more than 4 substi tuents, when all substi tuents are halo substi tuents 3 not more than 3 substi tuents, when any one sub stituent is other than halo and 4 not more than 2 different substituents and wherein positions on the pyridine ring are as follows 1 when the nitrogen to pyridine bond is at the 2 position of the pyridine ring, 5 position of the pyridine ring, any R1 is at the 4 or 6 position of the pyridine ring and 2 when the nitrogen to pyridine bond is at the 3 position of the pyridine ring, any R1 is at the 5 position of the pyridine ring and the acid addition salts and N oxides thereof. Other compounds of interest falling within the scope of the present invention are those whereinR4 and R5 independently represent chloro, fluoro, methyl, or methoxy R1 is C1, CH3, or C2H5 at the 5 position of the pyridine ring and R2 is C15 alkyl, C35 alkenyl containing no a,5 unsaturation, mono or dibromo C1 5 alkyl, C1 5 chloroalkyl, C1 5 luoroalkyl, C46 cycloalkyl or C25 alkoxyalkyl,X is 0, the nitrogen to pyridine bond is at the 3 position and n is 0, and the acid addition salts thereof. In such compounds, it is preferred that R2 be a branched C alkyl group, especially t butyl 2 or that R be cyclohexyl. Other compounds falling within the scope of the invention are those wherein R4 is hydrogen,R5 is chloro, n is 0 and R3 is 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl or 2 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl. The present invention is also directed toEMI5.1 compounds wherein R and R5 are independently chloro, fluoro, methyl, or methoxy. For the purposes of the present application, the compounds of this invention are named as substituted ureas, with numbering as follows EMI5.2 Thus, the compounds are named as l 2 substituted or 2,6 disubstituted benzoyl 3 substituted pyridinyl ureas, N oxides thereof, or acid addition salts thereof. The compounds of the present invention can be readily prepared by the reaction of a benzoyl isocyanate or benzoyl isothiocyanate of the formulaEMI5.3 with an aminopyridine of the formulaEMI6.1 or an N oxide thereof. The reaction is a known type of reaction, cf. U.S. Patent Specification No.3,748,356. The reaction is conveniently conducted in an aprotic organic solvent such as ethyl acetate, dichloromethane or methylene chloride. The reaction is preferably effected at a temperature within the range from 0 to 1000C., usually at about room temperature. The reaction consumes the reactants in equimolar amounts. The acid addition salts can be prepared by reacting a benzoyl urea or benzoyl thiourea product bare with the appropriate acid by conventional procedures. Acids having a pKa of 3.0 or lower are preferred1 such as the mineral acids, hydrochloric or hydrobromic acid. The benzoyl isocyanates which serve as starting materials can be prepared by the reaction of the corresponding benzamide with oxalyl chloride by the method of Speziale et al., J. Org. Chem. 27, 3742 1962 . The benzoyl isothiocyanates can be prepared in known procedures by reacting the corresponding benzoyl chlorides with an inorganic thiocyanate, such as ammonium thiocyanate or lead thiocyanate. The aminopyridines to be employed as starting materials can be prepared from the corresponding halonitropyridines EMI7.1 The halonitropyridine is condensed with a phenol, thiophenol, benzyl alcohol, or benzyl mercaptan of the formula HR2 CH2 , and the resulting nitro compoundEMI7.2 is reduced. The former reaction is conducted in a solvent such as dimethylformamide or dimethylsulfoxide and in the presence of a base, such as triethylamine, potassium hydroxide or lithium hydroxide as a hydrogen halide acceptor. Preferred conditions are equimolar amounts of the reactants in dimethylformamide, at room temperature, and with lithium hydroxide as base. The reduction can be carried out in any of various prior art procedures, includingSnC12 HCl, catalytic hydrogenation, and powdered iron with ammonium chloride.Preferred reagents are powdered iron and ammonium chloride. Many of the halonitropyridines are commercially available and all can be prepared by known procedures. The 6 halo 3 nitropyridines, bearing anR1 substituent if desired, are readily prepared by the methods of Acharya et al., Chem. Abs. 58, 5623c 1963 , Batkowski, Chem. Abs. 70, 106327x 1969 , and Hawkins et al., J. Org. Chem. 14, 328 1949 .The 5 halo 2 nitropyridines are also readily prepared, by bromination of a 2 aminopyridine to a 2 amino 5 bromopyridine, in accordance with the procedure of Org. Syn. Coll. 5, 346 John Wiley andSons, N.Y., 1973 the 2 aminopyridine can also bear an RÚ substituent at the 4 or 6 position. Although condensation with a HRê CH2 n R compound bearing electron donating substituents can be carried out directly with a 2 amino 5 bromopyridine see Example 18, below , the 2 amino 5 bromopyridine compound can also be oxidized to the corresponding 5 bromo2 nitropyridine compound, which undergoes the condensation regardless of the identity of substituents. The aminopyridine oxides can be prepared by prior art procedures, see Deady, Synthetic Communications 7 8 , 509 514 1977 and Oxidation, ed. byAugustine, especially Chapter 5 Marcel Dekker, Inc.,N.Y. 1969 . These and numerous other syntheses of pyridine compounds are well known in the literature and are well reviewed in Pyridine and Its Derivatives, ed. by Klingsberg, especially Parts 2 and 3 Interscience Publishers Inc., N.Y., 1961 and 1962 . Many of the phenols, thiophenols, benzyl alcohols and benzyl mercaptans which serve as starting materials are also commercially available.All can be prepared by prior art procedures. A convenient procedure for the conversion of a phenol to a thiophenol, or a benzyl alcohol to a benzyl mercaptan, is that of Newman et al., J. Org. Chem.31, 3980 1966 . Further preferred compounds of the in4 and R5 vention are those wherein 1 R and R are the same moiety and are chloro, fluoro, or methoxy 2 X represents oxygen 3 R2 represents 0 or S 4 the nitrogen to pyridine bond is at the 3 position of the pyridine ring, the R2 CH2 n R3 group is at the 6 position, and any R1 is at the 5 position and 5 R3, in theformula Rê CH2 n R , is phenyl when n 1 , 3 bromophenyl, 4 bromophenyl, 3 chlorophenyl, 4 chlorophenyl, 2,4 dichlorophenyl, 2, 5 dichlorophenyl, 3,4 dichlorophenyl, 3,5 dichlorophenyl, 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl, 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl, 3,5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl, 3 trifluoromethyl 4 chlorophenyl, 4 trifluoromethyl 3 chlorophenyl, 4 fluorophenyl, 2,3,5,6 tetrafluorophenyl, 3 methyl 4 chlorophenyl, 3 methyl 4 bromophenyl, or 2 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl. The following non limitative Examples illustrate the synthesis of compounds according to the present invention.EXAMPLE 1 6 4 CHLOROPHENYLTHIO 3 NITROPYRIDINE 6 Chloro 3 nitropyridine 4.0 grams and 4 chlorothiophenol 3.7 grams were mixed in 100 ml.of dry DMF and lithium hydroxide 1.2 grams added portionwise. After the reaction mixture had stirred for about 5 minutes, it darkened and became warm. It was allowed to stir with a drying tube for 4 hours, poured over ice water and the product separated by filtration. It was crystallized from ethyl acetateethanol, yield 5.0 grams, m.p. 134 1360C.Calc. for C11H7C1N2O2 S C, 49.54 H, 2.56 N, 10.50. Found C,49.82 H, 2.36 N, 10.60.EXAMPLE 2 6 3 ,5 DIMETHYLPHENOXY 3 NITROPYRIDINE 6 Chloro 3 nitropyridine 9.5 grams 0.06 mole , 3,5 dimethylphenol 7.2 grams 0.06 mole , and lithium hydroxide 4.0 grams were mixed in 100 ml.of dimethyl sulfoxide, and the reaction mixture was stirred overnight about 17 hours at room temperature. The reaction mixture was then poured into ice water. The product was separated by filtration and crystallized from ethyl acetate hexanes, yield 9.5 grams, m.p. 94 95 C. Calc. for C13H12N2O3 C, 63.93 H, 4.93 N, 11.47 Found C, 63.80 H, 5.03 N, 11.64.EXAMPLE 3 6 4 CHLOROPHENYLTHIO 3 AMINOPYRIDINE 6 4 Chlorophenylthio 3 nitropyridine 1.33 grams was mixed with ammonium chloride 5.0 grams in 5 ml. of water and about 50 ml. of 3A ethanol at 70 80 C. Iron powder 3.0 grams was added portionwise and the reaction mixture heated at 70 800C. with constant stirring, for 4 hours. The solution was filtered hot, solvents were removed, and the residue was washed with water chloroform used to extract the compound was removed in vacuo. A thick oil was crystallized from ether hexanes after passing through a flush with ethyl acetate on silica gel.The product precipitated as a white solid, yield 1.0 g., m.p. 55 57 . Calc. for C11H9ClN2S C, 55.81 H, 3.83 N, 11.83. Found C, 55.64 H, 3.82 N, 12.02.EXAMPLE 4 6 4 CHLOROPHENYLTHIO 3 AMINOPYRIDINE 6 Chloro 3 nitropyridine 54.5 grams , 4 chlorothiophenol 50.0 grams , and lithium hydroxide 12.5 grams were mixed in about 500 ml. ofDMF and stirred overnight about 18 hours at room temperature. The reaction mixture was poured into ice water, filtered, and the separated product washed three times with water and air dried, yield, 100 grams. The product, without purification, was suspended in a mixture of 1 liter of 3A ethanol and 200 ml. of water. Ammonium chloride 400 grams and powdered iron 250 grams were added and the reaction mixture heated to reflux. The reaction became exothermic and refluxed without external heat, for one hour external heat was supplied and the reaction mixture was refluxed for another hour. The reaction mixture was then filtered hot through Hyflo Super Cel a diatomaceous earth , extracted with ethyl acetate, washed with water, and solvent removed, yield 58.0 grams. Identity of the product was confirmed by comparison of the NMR with the NMR of an authentic sample.EXAMPLE 5 6 4 CHLOROPHENYLSULFONYL 3 NITROPYRIDINE Hydrogen peroxide 30 was added portionwise at room temperature to a solution of 6 4chlorophenylthio 3 nitropyridine 15.7 grams 0.06 mole in about 100 ml. of acetic acid. The reaction mixture was then stirred for 10 hours at 700C. TLC showed 2 spots. Additional hydrogen peroxide was added and the reaction mixture warmed slightly in a water bath. The product precipitated and was separated by filtration and crystallized from ethanol, yield, 12.7 grams, m.p. 177 1800C.Calc. for C11H7ClN2O4S C, 44.23 H, 2.36 N, 9.38. Found C, 44.47 H, 2.29 N, 9.37. EXAMPLE 6 6 3 TRIFLUOROMETHYL PHENYLSULFINYL 3 AMINOPYRIDINE 6 3 Trifluoromethyl phenylthio 3 aminopyridine 4.0 grams was dissolved in 50 ml. of acetone and m chloroperoxybenzoic acid 4.0 grams added. The solution was allowed to stir at room temperature for 2 hours, and an additional 1.0 gram of m chloroperoxybenzoic acid was added. The reaction mixture was passed over a column of silica gel with ethyl acetate, and the fraction corresponding to the product collected and crystallized from ethyl acetate hexanes, yield, 4.0 grams m.p. 74 760C. Calc. for C12H9F3N2OS C, 50.35 H, 3.15 N, 9.79. Found C, 50.08 H, 3.31 N, 9.84.EXAMPLE 7 2, 6 DICHLOROBENZOYL ISOCYANATE A one liter flask was purged with nitrogen while dry 2,6 dichlorobenzamide 125 grams, 0.64 mole and dry toluene 300 ml. were added. The nitrogen purge was continued as oxalyl chloride 100 grams, 0.79 mole was added over a 15 minute period, with stirring. The reaction mixture was then heated to 550C. and stirred overnight about 18 hours at 550C. The reaction mixture was then heated to reflux 111DC. and refluxed for 2 hours. Solvent was removed under vacuum and the product distilled off at 134 1350C, flask temperature and 131 1320C, vapor temperature, at 13 mm. vacuum, yield 127.5 grams 92.5 . Calc. for ClgHl2Cl3N302S C, 50.41 H, 2.67 N, 9.28. Found C, 50.54 H, 2.97 N, 9.45.EXAMPLE 8 1 2, 6 DICHLOROBENZOYL 3 6 4 CHLORO PHENYLTHIO 3 PYRIDINYL UREA 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl isocyanate 2.16 grams 0.01 mole and 6 4 chlorophenylthio 3 aminopyridine 2.37 grams 0.01 mole were mixed in dry ethyl acetate and stirred for 4 hours. The ethyl acetate was removed in vacuo. TLC showed a 3 spot mixture.The reaction mixture was then poured over a silica column with ethyl acetate, and the major spot collected.It was crystallized from ethyl acetate hexanes, yield 1.5 g., m.p. 160 1620C. Calc. for C19H12C13N302S C, 50.41 H, 2.67 N, 9.28. Found C, 50.54 H, 2.97 N, 9.45.EXAMPLE 9 1 2,6 DIMETHOXYBENZOYL 3 6 4 CHLORO PHENYLTHIO 3 PYRIDINYL UREA 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl isocyanate 2.07 grams 0.01 mole and 6 4 chlorophenylthio 3 aminopyridine 2.37 grams 0.01 mole were mixed in 100 ml. of ethyl acetate and stirred at room temperature for 3 hours. Solvent was removed in vacuo and the product crystallized from hexanes ethyl acetate, yield 0.6 gram, m.p. 172 174 C. Calc. for C21H18C1N304S C, 56.82 H, 4.09 N, 9.47. Found C, 56.66 H, 3.85 N, 9.64. EXAMPLE 10 1 2,6 DlMETHOXYBENZOYL 3 6 4 BROMOPHENOXY 3 PYRIDINYL UREA 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl isocyanate 2.0 grams and 6 4 bromophenoxy 3 aminopyridine 2.3 grams were mixed in about 50 ml. of ethyl acetate at room temperature, and the reaction mixture stirred overnight about 17 hours at room temperature. The product was separated by filtration and crystallized from a mixture of ethyl acetate and ethanol, yield 0.9 gram, m.p., 177 179 C.Calc. for C21H18BrN3O5 C, 53.41 H, 3.84 N, 8.90. Found C, 53.19 H, 4.05 N, 9.02.EXAMPLE 11 1 2,6 DIMETHYLBENZOYL 3 6 4 CHLOROPHENYLTHIO 3 PYRIDINYL UREA 2,6 Dimethylbenzoyi isocyanate 1.61 grams 0.01 mole and 6 4 chlorophenylthio 3 aminopyridine 2.36 grams 0.01 mole were mixed in 50 ml. of ethyl acetate and stirred at room temperature for 12 hours.Solvent was removed in vacuo. TLC showed four spots.The mixture was passed over a column of silica gel with a 1 1 mixture of toluene ethyl acetate and the product Rf .7 separated and crystallized from ethyl acetate hexanes, yield 1.1 grams, m.p. 159 1600C. Calc. for C21H1ClN3O2S C, 61.23 H, 4.40 N, 10.20. Found C, 61.48 H, 4.70 N, 10.34. EXAMPLE 12 1 2,6 DICHLOROBENZOYL 3 6 4 CHLOROPHENYLTHIO 3 PYRIDINYL UREA, HYDROCHLORIDE SALT 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 4 chloro phenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 2.0 grams was refluxed in 100 ml. of concentrated HC1 37 for 4 hours.The reaction mixture was cooled and the product separated by filtration, yield 1.5 grams, m.p., 214 2170C.Calc. for C19H13C14N3O2S C, 46.65 H, 2.68 N, 8.59. Found C, 46.90 H, 2.68 N, 8.44.EXAMPLE 13 1 2 CHLOROBENZOYL 3 6 3 TRIFLUORO METHYLPHENYLTHIO 3 PYRIDINYL THIOUREA 6 3 Trifluoromethyl phenylthio 3 aminopyridine 1.0 gram and 2 chlorobenzoyl isothiocyanate 1.0 gram were mixed in 50 ml. of ethyl acetate and stirred overnight about 18 hours at room temperature. Solvents were then removed by evaporation and the product residue was crystallized from ethyl acetate hexanes, m.p. 134 1370C., yield 1.7 grams.Calc. for C20H13C1F3N30S2 C, 51.34 H, 2.80 N, 8.98. Found C, 51.35 H, 2.93 N, 9.06EXAMPLE 14 2 NITRO 5 CHLOROPYRIDINE 2 Amino 5 chloropyridine 50 grams was added portionwise to a solution of 300 ml. of concentrated H2SO4 and 150 ml. of 30 H202, maintained at a temperature of 0 5 C., over a period of 5.0 hours. The reaction mixture was then allowed to rise to room temperature and stirred at room temperature for 24 hours. The reaction mixture was then poured over ice, and the product residue separated by filtration and air dried. Crystallization from ethyl acetate ethanol gave only the azo compound. The remainder of the product residue was passed over a column of silica gel with a mixture of 1 1 toluene ethyl acetate. The desired product was isolated and its identity confirmed by NMR.EXAMPLE 15 2 NITRO 5 4 CHLOROPHENYLTHIO PYRIDINE 2 Nitro 5 chloropyridine 9.5 grams , 4 chlorothiophenol 8.7 grams , and lithium hydroxide 4 grams were mixed in 100 ml. of DMF and the reaction mixture was stirred overnight about 18 hours at room temperature. The reaction mixture was then poured into water and the product separated by filtration and crystallized from ethanol hexanes, yield, 10.0 grams, m.p., 96 98 C. Calc. for C11H7C1N202S C, 49.54 H, 2.65 N, 10.50. Found C, 49.31 H, 2.88 N, 10.38.EXAMPLE 16 2 AMINO 5 4 CHLOROPHENYLTHIO PYRIDINE 2 Nitro 5 4 chlorophenylthio pyridine 10.5 grams , ammonium chloride 50.0 grams , and powdered iron 30.0 grams were reacted in the same procedures reported in Example 3. The reaction mixture was filtered hot solvents were removed. The product was extracted with ethyl acetate, washed with water, the ethyl acetate removed, and the product crystallized from ethyl acetate hexanes, yield 4.5 grams, m.p. 157 1590C, Calc. for C11H9ClN2S C, 55.81 H, 3.83 N, 11.83. Found C, 55.97 H, 3.88 N, 11.57.EXAMPLE 17 2 AMINO 5 BROMOPYRIDINE Bromine 240 grams was added dropwise to a solution of 2 aminopyridine 141 grams in 1 liter of acetic acid, maintaining the temperature at 0 C. After the completion of the addition, the temperature of the reaction mixture was raised to 500C. and the reaction mixture stirred for one hour at that temperature, then poured into water. The precipitate was separated by filtration, and the reaction mixture neutralized with concentrated NaOH and a second precipitate separated by filtration. NMR established that the first precipitate was 2 amino 3,5 dibromopyridine, whereas the second precipitate was the desired 2 amino 5 bromopyridine, yield, 100 grams, m.p., 130 132 C. lit. ref., Org. Syn. Coll. 5, supra, m.p., 132 1350C . EXAMPLE 18 2 AMINO 5 4 CHLOROPHENYLTHIO PYRIDINE 2 Amino 5 bromopyridine 7.8 grams , 4 chlorothiophenol 9.2 grams , sodium methoxide 3.5 grams , and copper powder 1.0 gram were reacted in 100 ml. of methanol, for 12 hours, in a bomb, in accordance with the procedures of J. Med. Chem. 21, 235 1978 . The reaction mixture was filtered, washed with methanol, and methanol removed by evaporation. The methanol washes were combined with ethyl acetate extracts of solids made after refluxing on a steam bath for one hour. Solvents were removed and the solids dissolved in ethyl acetate and filtered to remove insolubles. The liquid was passed over a silica column with ethyl acetate, and the fraction corresponding to the product amine Rf 0.2 collected., yield 6.5 grams, m.p., 161 1630C. Calc. for C11H9ClN2 S C, 55.81 H, 3.83 N, 11.83. Found C, 55.87 H, 4.02 N, 11.83.EXAMPLES 19 to 285 Similarly prepared were MeltingExample No. Compound Name Point C. 19 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 4 bromophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 184 186 20 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 4 bromophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 174 176 21 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3,4 dichlorophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 168 171 22 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 4 bromo 3 methylphenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 175 177 23 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3,4 dichlorophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 145 149 24 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 4 chlorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 184 187 25 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 4 bromo 3 methylphenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 180 182 26 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 4 chlorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 203 205 27 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3,4 dichlorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 200 202 28 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3 trifluoromethyl phenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 179 181 29 1 2 Chlorobenzoyl 3 6 3 trifluoromethyl phenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 145 147 MeltingExample No. Compound Name Point C. 30 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3 chlorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 189 192 31 1 2,6 Dimethylbenzoyl 3 6 3,4 dichlorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 160 162 32 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3 chlorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 165 168 33 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 2 chlorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 151 153 34 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3 trifluoromethyl phenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 118 121 35 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3,4 dichlorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 164 166 36 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 4 chloro 3 methylphenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 172 175 37 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 2 chlorophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 144 146 38 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 4 chloro 3 methylphenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 183 185 39 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 4 bromophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 200 202 40 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 2 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 196 198 MeltingExample No.Compound Name Point C. 41 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 2 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 198 202 42 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 4 chlorobenzylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 192 195 43 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 4 chlorobenzylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 140 143 44 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3,4 dichlorobenzylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 117 120 45 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3 trifluoromethyl benzyloxy 3 pyridinyl urea 165 167 46 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3 trifluoromethyl benzyloxy 3 pyridinyl urea 127 130 47 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3,4 dichlorobenzylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 173 175 48 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 4 chlorobenzylsulfonyl 3 pyridinyl urea 194 196 49 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 5 chloro 6 4 chlorophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 196 199 50 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 5 chloro 6 4 chlorophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 172 174 51 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3,5 dimethylphenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 147 149 MeltingExample No. Compound Name Point C. 52 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3,5 dichlorophenoxy 5 methyl 198 201 3 pyridinyl urea 53 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3,5 dimethylphenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 201 203 54 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3,5 dichlorophenoxy 5 methyl 3 pyridinyl urea 216 219 55 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3 trifluoromethyl benzylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 125 127 56 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3 trifluoromethyl benzylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 138 140 57 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3,4 dichlorobenzyloxy 3 pyridinyl urea 191 193 58 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3,4 dichlorobenzyloxy 3 pyridinyl urea 184 186 59 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3 trifluoromethyl phenylsulfinyl 3 pyridinyl urea 210 214 60 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3 trifluoromethyl phenylsulfinyl 3 pyridinyl urea 109 111 61 1 2 Chloro 6 methoxybenzoyl 3 6 4 chlorophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 147 150 62 1 2 Chloro 6 methoxybenzoyl 3 6 3 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 134 138 MeltingExample No.Compound Name Point C. 63 1 2 Chloro 6 methoxybenzoyl 3 6 3,5 dichlorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 156 159 64 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3,4 dichlorophenylsulfonyl 3 pyridinyl urea 187 190 65 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 4 chlorophenylsulfonyl 3 pyridinyl urea 207 210 66 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3 chlorophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 192 196 67 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 4 fluorophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 167 173 68 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3 chlorophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 168 171 69 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 4 chlorophenylthio 5 methyl 3 pyridinyl urea 160 163 70 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 4 fluorophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 194 196 71 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 4 chlorophenylthio 5 methyl 3 pyridinyl urea 150 154 MeltingExample No. Compound Name Point C. 72 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 benzylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 192 194 73 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3 bromophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 192 195 74 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 173 175 75 1 2 Chlorobenzoyl 3 6 3 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 161 163 76 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 151 153 77 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 2,5 dichlorophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 205 208 78 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 4 chlorophenoxy 5 methyl 3 pyridinyl urea 217 219 79 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 4 chlorophenoxy 5 methyl 3 pyridinyl urea 202 205 80 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 4 chlorophenylsulfonyl 5 methyl 3 pyridinyl urea 189 192 81 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 4 chlorophenylsulfonyl 5 methyl 3 pyridinyl urea 190 193 MeltingExample No. Compound Name Point C. 82 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3,5 dichlorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 173 176 83 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3 bromophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 170 173 84 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3,5 dichlorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 205 207 85 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 5 methyl 6 3 trifluoromethyl phenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 125 127 86 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 190 193 87 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 5 methyl 6 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl thio 3 pyridinyl urea 184 186 88 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 2,4 dichlorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 199 202 89 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 163 165 90 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 2,4 dichlorophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 202 205 MeltingExample No. Compound Name Point C. 91 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 2,4 dichlorophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 125 129 92 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3 fluorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 155 158 93 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 4 fluorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 215 217 94 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 4 fluorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 172 175 95 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 2,4 dichlorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 191 194 96 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 2 fluorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 180 183 97 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 4 chlorobenzyloxy 3 pyridinyl urea 163 166 98 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 4 chlorobenzyloxy 3 pyridinyl urea 180 183 99 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 2,4 dichlorobenzylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 197 200 100 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 2,4 dichlorobenzylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 151 154 MeltingExample No. Compound Name Point C. 101 1 2 Chlorobenzoyl 3 6 2 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 175 177 102 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 benzyloxy 3 pyridinyl urea 197 199 103 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 benzyloxy 3 pyridinyl urea 172 174 104 1 2 Chloro 6 methylbenzoyl 3 6 2 chlorophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 165 168 105 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 4 chloro 3,5 dimethylphenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 220 222 106 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 4 chloro 3,5 dimethylphenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 188 190 107 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 2 bromophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 180 183 108 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3 bromophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 185 187 109 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 2 bromophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 199 202 110 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 2 bromophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 218 221 111 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 2 bromophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 139 141 112 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 2,4,5 trichlorophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 212 215 MeltingExample No. Compound Name Point C. 113 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 2,4,5 trichlorophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 190 193 114 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 2 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 168 171 115 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3 bromophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 193 196 116 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 2 chlorophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 202 205 117 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3,4,5 trichlorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 230 233 118 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 2 chlorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 187 189 119 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 2,5 dichlorophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 186 189 120 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 2,3,5,6 tetrafluorophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 208 211 121 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 2,3,5,6 tetrafluorophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 202 204 122 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 2 fluorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 165 167 MeltingExample No.Compound Name Point C. 123 1 2 Chlorobenzoyl 3 6 3 trifluoromethyl phenylsulfinyl 3 pyridinyl urea 140 145 124 1 2 Chlorobenzoyl 3 6 3 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl thiourea 114 115 125 1 2 Chlorobenzoyl 3 5 methyl 6 3 trifluoromethyl phenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 137 139 126 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3 chloro 5 methoxyphenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 140 142 127 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3 chloro 5 methoxyphenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 165 167 128 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3 trifluoromethyl phenylsul fonyl 3 pyridinyl urea 215 218 129 1 2,6 Difluorobenzoyl 3 6 3 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 157 159 130 1 2,6 Difluorobenzoyl 3 6 4 chlorophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 205 208 131 1 2,6 Difluorobenzoyl 3 5 methyl 6 3 trifluoromethyl phenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 134 136 132 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 4 chlorophenylsulfinyl 3 pyridinyl urea 127 129 MeltingExample No. Compound Name Point C. 133 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 4 chlorophenylsulfinyl 3 pyridinyl urea 183 185 134 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 4 chlorobenzylsulfonyl 3 pyridinyl urea 235 239 135 1 2 Chlorobenzoyl 3 6 3,5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl thio 3 pyridinyl thiourea 136 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 5 chloro 6 3 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 148 151 137 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 benzylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 140 142 138 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 5 chloro 6 3 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 181 184 139 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 5 4 chlorophenylthio 2 pyridinyl urea 132 135 140 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 5 4 chlorophenylthio 2 pyridinyl urea 85 87 141 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 5 4 chlorophenoxy 2 pyridinyl urea 142 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 5 4 chlorophenoxy 2 pyridinyl urea MeltingExample No. Compound Name Point C. 143 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 5 3 trifluoromethyl phenylthio 2 pyridinyl urea 170 174 144 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 5 3 trifluoromethyl phenylthio 2 pyridinyl urea 121 124 145 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 5 3 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 pyridinyl urea 146 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 5 3 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 pyridinyl urea 147 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 5 3,5 dichlorophenylthio 2 pyridinyl urea 148 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 5 3,5 dichlorophenylthio 2 pyridinyl urea 149 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 5 3,5 dichlorophenoxy 2 pyridinyl urea 150 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 5 3,5 dichlorophenoxy 2 pyridinyl urea 151 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 5 2 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl thio 2 pyridinyl urea 152 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 5 2 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl thio 2 pyridinyl urea MeltingExample No. Compound Name Point C. 153 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 5 2 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 pyridinyl urea 154 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 5 2 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 pyridinyl urea 155 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 5 3,4 dichlorophenylthio 2 pyridinyl urea 160 163 156 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 5 3,4 dichlorophenylthio 2 pyridinyl urea 183 185 157 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 5 3,4 dichlorophenoxy 2 pyridinyl urea 158 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 5 3,4 dichlorophenoxy 2 pyridinyl urea 159 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 5 3,5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl thio 2 pyridinyl urea 160 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 5 3,5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl thio 2 pyridinyl urea 161 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 5 3,5 bis trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 pyridinyl urea 162 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 5 3,5 bis trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 pyridinyl urea MeltingExample No.Compound Name Point C. 163 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 5 3 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenylthio 2 pyridinyl urea 164 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 5 3 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenylthio 2 pyridinyl urea 165 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 5 3 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 pyridinyl urea 166 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 5 3 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 pyridinyl urea 167 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 5 4 chloro 3 trifluoromethyl phenylthio 2 pyridinyl urea 168 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 5 4 chloro 3 trifluoromethyl phenylthio 2 pyridinyl urea 169 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 5 4 chloro 3 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 pyridinyl urea 170 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 5 4 chloro 3 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 pyridinyl urea 171 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 5 benzylthio 2 pyridinyl urea 172 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 5 benzylthio 2 pyridinyl urea MeltingExample No. Compound Name Point C. 173 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 5 benzyloxy 2 pyridinyl urea 174 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 5 benzyloxy 2 pyridinyl urea 175 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 5 2,4 dichlorobenzylthio 2 pyridinyl urea 176 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 5 2,4 dichlorobenzylthio 2 pyridinyl urea 177 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 5 2,4 dichlorobenzyloxy 2 pyridinyl urea 178 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 5 2,4 dichlorobenzyloxy 2 pyridinyl urea 179 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 180 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 181 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 182 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea MeltingExample No. Compound Name Point C. 183 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 4 chloro 3 trifluoromethyl phenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 184 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 4 chloro 3 trifluoromethyl phenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 185 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 4 chloro 3 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 221 224 186 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 4 chloro 3 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 125 127 187 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3,5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl thio 3 pyridinyl urea 188 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3,5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl thio 3 pyridinyl urea 189 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3,5 bis trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 190 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3,5 bis trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 191 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl thio 3 pyridinyl urea 192 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl phenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea MeltingExample No. Compound Name Point C. 193 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 194 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 195 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 5 3 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl phenylthio 2 pyridinyl urea 196 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 5 3 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl phenylthio 2 pyridinyl urea 197 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 5 3 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 pyridinyl urea 198 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 5 3 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 pyridinyl urea 199 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3,5 dichlorophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 170 173 200 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3,5 dichlorophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 203 206 MeltingExample No. Compound Name Point C. 201 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 2,3 dichlorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 173 174 202 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 2,4 dibromophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 219 221 203 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 2,4 dibromophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 186 189 204 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 2,4 dichlorobenzyloxy 3 pyridinyl urea 195 197 205 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 2,4 dichlorobenzyloxy 3 pyridinyl urea 177 181 206 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 2,6 dichlorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 235 237 207 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 2,6 dichlorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 241 244 208 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3,5 dichlorobenzyloxy 3 pyridinyl urea 209 211 209 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3,5 dichlorobenzyloxy 3 pyridinyl urea 223 226 MeltingExample No. Compound Name Point C. 210 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3,5 dichlorophenylsulfonyl 3 pyridinyl urea 228 230 211 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 4 bromo 2,5 dichlorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 243 245 212 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 4 bromo 2,5 dichlorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 205 208 213 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 2 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl phenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 146 150 214 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 2 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl phenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 187 190 215 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 2 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl phenylsulfonyl 3 pyridinyl urea 243 246 216 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 2 chloro 5 methylphenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 166 168 217 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 2 chloro 5 methylphenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 177 181 218 1 2 Chloro 6 methoxybenzoyl 3 6 2,4 dichlorobenzyloxy 3 pyridinyl urea 185 188 219 1 2 Chloro 6 methoxybenzoyl 3 6 2 chloro 5 trifluoro methyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 158 161 MeltingExample No. Compound Name Point C. 220 1 2,6 Difluorobenzoyl 3 6 2,4 dichlorobenzyloxy 3 pyridinyl urea 199 202 221 1 2,6 Difluorobenzoyl 3 6 2 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 180 184 222 1 2,6 Difluorobenzoyl 3 6 3,5 dichlorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 190 194 223 1 2 Chloro 6 methoxybenzoyl 3 6 3 chloro 5 methoxyphenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 40 43 224 1 2 Chloro 6 methoxybenzoyl 3 6 4 chlorophenylsulfonyl 3 pyridinyl urea 60 62 225 1 2 Chloro 6 fluorobenzoyl 3 6 2 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 157 160 226 1 2 Chloro 6 fluorobenzoyl 3 6 2,4 dichlorobenzyloxy 3 pyridinyl urea 187 190 227 1 2 Chloro 6 fluorobenzoyl 3 6 3 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 104 107 228 1 2 Chloro 6 fluorobenzoyl 3 6 3,5 dichlorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 183 186 229 1 2 Chloro 6 fluorobenzoyl 3 6 4 chlorophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 148 150 MeltingExample No.Compound Name Point C. 230 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 2 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 5 chloro 3 pyridinyl urea 204 207 231 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 2 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 5 chloro 3 pyridinyl urea 194 196 232 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3,5 dichlorophenoxy 5 chloro 3 pyridinyl urea 197 200 233 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3,5 dichlorophenoxy 5 chloro 3 pyridinyl urea 196 199 234 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 2 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 187 191 235 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 2 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 199 202 236 1 2 Chloro 6 fluorobenzoyl 3 6 4 chloro 3 trifluoro methyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 179 185 237 1 2,6 Difluorobenzoyl 3 6 4 chloro 3 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 183 186 238 1 2 Fluoro 6 methoxybenzoyl 3 6 3 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 146 148 239 1 2 Fluoro 6 methoxybenzoyl 3 6 2 chloro 5 trifluoro methyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 240 1 2 Fluoro 6 methoxybenzoyl 3 6 3,5 dichlorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 190 192 MeltingExample No. Compound Name Point C. 241 1 2 Chloro 6 methoxybenzoyl 3 6 4 chloro 3 trifluoro methyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 164 166 242 1 2 Chloro 6 methylbenzoyl 3 6 3,5 dichlorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 193 196 243 1 2 Chloro 6 methylbenzoyl 3 6 2,4 dichlorobenzyloxy 3 pyridinyl urea 190 193 244 1 2 Chloro 6 methylbenzoyl 3 6 3 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 156 158 245 1 2 Chloro 6 methylbenzoyl 3 6 2 chloro 5 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 246 1 2 Chloro 6 methylbenzoyl 3 6 4 chlorophenylthio 3 pyridinyl urea 247 1 2 Chloro 6 methylbenzoyl 3 6 4 chlorophenylsulfonyl 3 pyridinyl urea 248 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 5 4 chlorophenylthio 2 pyridinyl urea 132 135 249 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 5 4 chlorophenylthio 2 pyridinyl urea 85 87 MeltingExample No. Compound Name Point C. 250 1 2 Chlorobenzoyl 3 5 3 trifluoromethyl phenylthio 2 pyridinyl urea 194 197 251 1 2 Chlorobenzoyl 3 5 3 trifluoromethyl phenylthio 2 pyridinyl thiourea 114 116 252 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 5 4 chlorobenzylthio 2 pyridinyl urea 229 231 253 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 5 4 chlorobenzylthio 2 pyridinyl urea 164 167 254 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3,5 dimethoxyphenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 160 163 255 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3,5 dimethoxyphenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 256 1 2,6 Difluorobenzoyl 3 6 3,5 dimethoxyphenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 257 1 2 Chloro 6 methoxybenzoyl 3 6 3,5 dimethoxyphenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 258 1 2 Fluoro 6 methoxybenzoyl 3 6 3,5 dimethoxyphenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 259 1 2 Chloro 6 fluorobenzoyl 3 6 3,5 dimethoxyphenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea MeltingExample No. Compound Name Point C. 260 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 261 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 262 1 2,6 Difluorobenzoyl 3 6 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 263 1 2 Chloro 6 fluorobenzoyl 3 6 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 264 1 2 Chloro 6 methoxybenzoyl 3 6 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 265 1 2 Fluoro 6 methoxybenzoyl 3 6 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 266 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3,5 bis trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 267 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3,5 bis trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 268 1 2,6 Difluorobenzoyl 3 6 3,5 bis trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 269 1 2 Chloro 6 fluorobenzoyl 3 6 3,5 bis trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea MeltingExample No.Compound Name Point C. 270 1 2 Chloro 6 methoxybenzoyl 3 6 3,5 bis trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 271 1 2 Fluoro 6 methoxybenzoyl 3 6 3,5 bis trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 272 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 2 fluoro 5 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 273 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 2 fluoro 5 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 274 1 2,6 Difluorobenzoyl 3 6 2 fluoro 5 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 275 1 2 Chloro 6 fluorobenzoyl 3 6 2 fluoro 5 trifluoro methyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 276 1 2 Chloro 6 methoxybenzoyl 3 6 2 fluoro 5 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 277 1 2 Fluoro 6 methoxybenzoyl 3 6 2 fluoro 5 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 278 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 3,5 bis trifluoromethyl benzyloxy 3 pyridinyl urea 279 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 5 chloro 6 4 chloro 3 trifluoro methyl phenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea MeltingExample No. Compound Name Point C. 280 1 2,6 Dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 3,5 bis trifluoromethyl benzyloxy 3 pyridinyl urea 281 1 2,6 Difluorobenzoyl 3 6 3,5 bis trifluoromethyl benzyloxy 3 pyridinyl urea 282 1 2 Chloro 6 fluorobenzoyl 3 6 3,5 bis trifluoromethyl benzyloxy 3 pyridinyl urea 283 1 2 Chloro 6 methoxybenzoyl 3 6 3,5 bis trifluoromethyl benzyloxy 3 pyridinyl urea 284 1 2 Fluoro 6 methoxybenzoyl 3 6 3,5 bis trifluoromethyl benzyloxy 3 pyridinyl urea 285 1 2,6 Dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 2,3 dichlorophenoxy 3 pyridinyl urea 217 219 EXAMPLE 286 2 2,2,2 TRIFLUOROETHOXY 5 NITRO PYRIDINE 2 Chloro 5 nitropyridine 9.5 grams , 2,2,2 trifluoroethanol 6.0 grams , and lithium hydroxide 4.0 grams were mixed in 50 ml. of DMSO and stirred overnight about 18 hours at room temperature. The reaction mixture was then poured into water and the product was separated by filtration.It was crystallized from ethyl acetate hexanes, yield 5.0 grams, m.p., 35 37 C. Calc. for C7H5F3N203 C, 37.85 H, 2.27 N, 12.61. Found C, 37.58 H, 2.25 N, 12.79.EXAMPLE 287 2 2,2,2 TRIFLUOROETHOXY 3 AMINO PYRIDINE 2 2,2, 2 Trifluoroethoxy 5 nitropyridine 5.0 grams , powdered iron 15 grams , and ammonium chloride 25 grams were refluxed in 3A ethanol untilTLC detected no starting material about 4 hours .The reaction mixture was filtered, washed with water, and solvents removed, yielding 1.0 gram of the product as a thin brownish liquid. NMR confirmed the identity of the product.EXAMPLE 288 2 tert BUTOXY 5 NITROPYRIDINE To 50 ml. of tert butanol, there was added potassium tert butoxide 0.06 mole and 2 chloro5 nitropyridine 0.05 mole . A white solid precipitated. The reaction mixture was heated to about 600 for 4 hours. Excess ammonium chloride was added to neutralize excess potassium tert butoxide.Solvent was removed by evaporation, and the residue was taken up in chloroform, separated, washed with water, dried over magnesium sulfate, and chromatographed on silica gel with a 50 50 mixture of ethyl acetate toluene.EXAMPLE 289 2 CYCLOHEXYLTHIO 5 AMINOPYRIDINE 2 Cyclohexylthio 5 nitropyridine 13.4 grams was added to a suspension of 50 grams of ammonium chloride and 20 grams of powdered iron in a mixture of 220 ml. of ethyl acetate and 30 ml. of water. The reaction mixture was refluxed for 6 hours. TLC indicated some starting material remained. Additional powdered iron 10 grams was added and the reaction mixture refluxed for another 2 hours. TLC indicated no starting material remaining.The reaction mixture was filtered, taken up in chloroform, washed with water, dried, and evaporated.The main product residue was crystallized from ethyl acetate hexanes, 8.4 grams of tan crystals a second crop was crystallized from chloroform hexanes with charcoal, .8 gram. The second crop as analyzed as follows Calc. for C11H16N2S C, 63.46 H, 7.69 N, 13.46. Found C, 63.27 H, 7.44 N, 12.23. EXAMPLE 290 2 CYCLOHEXYLSULFONYL 5 NITROPYRIDINE 2 Cyclohexylthio 5 nitropyridine 3.5 grams was dissolved in methylene chloride and m chloroperbenzoic acid 7.0 grams was added portionwise at room temperature. The reaction was slightly exothermic. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours after the addition was completed. The reaction mixture was then washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution and water, solvent was removed, and the residue was passed over a silica gel column with ethyl acetate. The major spot Rf 0.5 was isolated and crystallized from ethyl acetate hexanes, m.p., 182 1850C.Calc. for C11H16N202 S C, 54.98 H, 6.71 N, 11.66. Found C, 54.78 H, 6.43 N, 11.63.EXAMPLE 291 2, 6 DICHLOROBENZOYLISOCYANATE A one liter flask was purged with nitrogen while dry 2,6 dichlorobenzamide 125 grams, 0.64 mole and dry toluene 300 ml. were added. The nitrogen purge was continued as oxalyl chloride 100 grams, 0.79 mole was added over a 15 minute period, with stirring. The reaction mixture was then heated to 550C. and stirred overnight about 18 hours at 55 C. The reaction mixture was then heated to reflux lll0C. and refluxed for 2 hours. Solvent was removed under vacuum and the product distilled off at 134 1350C. flask temperature and 131 1320C.vapor temperature, at 13 mm. vacuum, yield 127.5 grams 92.5 . Calc. for ClgH12C13N302S C, 50.41 H, 2.67 N, 9.28. Found C, 50.54 H, 2.97 N, 9.45.EXAMPLE 292 1 2,6 DIMETHOXYBENZOYL 3 6 CYCLO HEXYLSULFONYL 3 PYRIDINYL UREA 2 Cyclohexylsulfonyl 5 aminopyridine 1.0 gram and 2,6 dimethoxybenzoyl isocyanate 0.9 gram were mixed in 50 ml. of DMF and stirred at room temperature overnight about 18 hours . The reaction mixture was then poured into water and filtered to separate the product. It was crystallized from ethyl acetate hexanes, yield 0.5 gram, m.p., 123 1250C.Calc. for C21H25N306S C, 56.36 H, 5.63 N, 9.39. Found C, 56.10 H, 5.51 N, 9.58.EXAMPLE 293 1 2,6 DICHLOROBENZOYL 3 6 2,2,2 TRIFLUOROETHOXY 3 PYRIDINYL UREA 2 2,2, 2 Trifluoroethoxy 5 aminopyridine 0.5 gram and 2,6 dichlorobenzoyl isocyanate 0.5 gram were mixed in ethyl acetate, and the reaction mixture stirred overnight about 18 hours at room temperature. Solvent was removed by evaporation and the product residue crystallized from ethyl acetatehexanes, yield, 0.6 gram, m.p., 146 1480C.Calc. for C15H10Cl2F3N303 C, 44.14 H, 2.47 N, 10.30. Found C, 44.36 H, 2.54 N, 10.03.EXAMPLES 294 to 309 Similarly prepared wt re m.p. or otherExample No. Compound Name confirmatory data 294 1 2,6 dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 methoxy 3 pyridinyl urea m.p., 204 207 C. 295 1 2,6 dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 methoxy 3 pyridinyl urea m.p., 188 191 C. 296 1 2,6 dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 tert butoxy Calc. for C17H17N3O3 pyridinyl urea C, 53.42 H, 4.48 N, 10.99. Found C, 53.20 H, 4.51 N, 10.95. 297 1 2,6 dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 n butoxy 3 Calc. for C17H17Cl2N3O2 pyridinyl urea C, 53.42 H, 4.48 N, 10.99. Found C, 53.59 H, 4.30 N, 11.05. 298 1 2,6 dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 n pentylthio Calc. for C18H19N3O2S 3 pyridinyl urea C, 52.43 H, 4.64 N, 10.19. Found C, 52.19 H, 4.66 N, 10.26. 299 1 2,6 dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 tert butoxy 3 pyridinyl urea m.p., 245 248 C. m.p. or otherExample No. Compound Name confirmatory data 300 1 2,6 dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 n butoxy 3 pyridinyl urea m.p., 134 137 C. 301 1 2,6 dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 n pentyloxy Calc. for C20H25N3O4S 3 pyridinyl urea C, 59.53 H, 6.25 N, 10,41. Found C, 59.31 H, 6.15 N, 10.16. 302 1 2,6 dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 2 methoxy Calc. for C16H15Cl2N3O4 ethoxy 3 pyridinyl urea C, 50.02 H, 3.94 N, 10.94. Found C, 50.24 H, 3.73 N, 11.06. 303 1 2,6 dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 2 methoxy ethoxy 3 pyridinyl urea m.p., 157 160 C 304 1 2,6 dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 tert butylthio Calc. for C17H17Cl2N3O2S 3 pyridinyl urea C, 51.26 H, 4.30 N, 10.55. Found C, 51.26 H, 4.30 N, 10.68. m.p. or otherExample No. Compound Name confirmatory data 305 1 2,6 dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 cyclohexylthio Calc. for C19H19ClN3O2S 3 pyridinyl urea C, 53.77 H, 4.48 N, 9.91. Found C, 53.44 H, 4.31 N, 9.96. 306 1 2,6 dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 tert butylthio Crop No. 1, m.p., 3 pyridinyl urea 220 222 C. Crop No. 2, m.p., 205 215 C. Calc. for C19H23N3O4S C, 58.59 H, 5.95 N, 10.79. Crop No. 1, Found C, 58.35 H, 5.74 N, 10.80. Crop No. 2, Found C, 58.08 H, 5.74 N, 11.01. 307 1 2,6 dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 cyclohexyl Calc. for C21H25N3O4Cl thio 3 pyridinyl urea C, 60.70 H, 6.06 N, 10.11. Found C, 60.69 H, 5.86 N, 9.90. m.p.or otherExample No. Compound Name confirmatory data 308 1 2,6 dimethoxybenzoyl 3 6 2,2,2 tri Calc. for C17H16F3N3O5 fluoroethoxy 3 pyridinyl urea C, 51.13 H, 4.04 N, 10.52. Found C, 51.36 H, 4.04 N, 10.22. 309 1 2,6 dichlorobenzoyl 3 6 cyclohexylsul fonyl 3 pyridinyl urea m.p., 182 185 C. The compounds of the present invention are useful for the control of insects of various orders, including Coleoptera such as Mexican bean beetle, boll weevil, corn rootworms, cereal leaf beetle, flea beetles, borers, Colorado potato beetle, grain beetles, alfalfa weevil, carpet beetle, confused flour beetle, powder post beetle, wireworms, rice weevil, rose beetle, plum curculio, white grubs Diptera, such as house fly, yellow fever mosquito, stable fly, horn fly, blowfly, cabbage maggot, carrot rust fly Lepidoptera, such as southern armyworm, codling moth, cutworm, clothes moth, Indian meal moth, leaf rollers, corn earworm, European corn borer, cabbage worm, cabbage looper, cotton bollworm, bagworm, eastern tent caterpillar, sod webworm, fall armyworm and Orthoptera, such as German cockroach and American cockroach. The compounds of the present invention are additionally useful for the control of other insects such as common cattle grub, face fly, mosquitoes, spruce budworm, bollworms, tabanid fly, tobacco budworm, armyworms, including beet armyworm and yellow striped armyworm, Southwestern corn borer, potato leafhopper, lesser cornstalk borer, grasshoppers, cotton fleahopper, wheat stem sawfly, horse fly, webworms, maggots, velvetbean caterpillar, pecan weevil, whitefringed beetle, pecan nut casebearer, pink bollworm, darkling beetle, hickory shuckworm, walnut caterpillar, tobacco hornworm, loopers,Egyptian cotton leafworm, cockroaches, green clover worm, alfalfa caterpillar, corn leaf beetle, leaf miner fly, diamondback moth, rednecked peanutworm, stalk borer, cigarette beetle, sunflower moth, tomato pinworm, oriental fruit moth, peachtree borer, melon fly, imported cabbage worm, lesser peachtree borer, grape root borer, black fly, pepper weevil, threestriped blister beetle, sunflower beetle, nose bot fly, grape berry moth, sheep ked, and leaf rollers. It is believed that the present compounds act by interfering with the mechanism of metamorphosis which occurs in insects, causing the death of the insects. It is also believed that ingestion by the insects is necessary to invoke this mechanism.While the death of any given insect may be delayed until that insect reaches some stage of metamorphosis, the net result of this activity is the control and suppression of insects. Therefore, in another embodiment, the present invention is directed to a method of suppressing insects which comprises applying to a locus of the i seets an effective amount of a compound of the present invention0 The locus can be any environ we inhabited by insects to be controlled, such as soil, air, water, foods, vegetation, manure, inert object, stored matter such as grain, and the like. The compounds of the invention will normally be applied, for instance as by spraying, to the locus in an anount varying from 0.001 to 10 lbs acre depending on the nature of the locus, the type and severity of the insect infestation, etc. Preferably, the compounds are applied in an amount varying front 0.1 to 1 lbtacre. Preferably the compounds of the present invention are supplied in a formulation, for ease of application. The compounds can be formulated with various adjuvants, including water, organic liquids, surface active agents, inert solids, and the like.Suitable surface active agents include anionic agents, such as sodium lauryl sulfate, sodium dodecylbenzenesulfonate, and the like and nonionic agents, such as polyethylene glycol p nonylphenyl ether. Mixtures are often desirably employed. The formulation can take the form of a liquid, dust, granule, aerosol, etc. The formulation can be concentrated, as in a slow release formulation or as in a formulation to be diluted with water before application to the locus of insects. Many methods of formulation are known in the art and can be employed to implement the present invention. The concentration of active agent in such insecticidal formulations will normally be in the range from 0.1 to 90 by weight. In general, the concentrate formulations described above will be diluted before being applied to the locus, either with water or in certain cases kerorene, typically concentrations range from about 0.1 to 1000 ppm in such diluted formulations. The insecticidal activity of the present compounds was determined by testing the efficacy of formulations of the compounds against Mexican bean beetle larvae Epilachna varivestis , and against southern armyworm larvae Spodoptera eridania . These insects are members of the Coleoptera andLepidoptera orders of insects, respectively. The formulations were applied to the foliage of plants and the larvae were subsequently permitted to feed on the foliage. The compounds were tested in a plurality of concentrations, from a concentration of about 1000 ppm. to about 1 ppm. Each compound to be tested was formulated by dissolving 10 mg. of the compound in 1 ml. of a solvent made up with 23 grams of Toximul R and 13 grams of Toximul S per liter of 1 1 anhydrous ethanol and acetone. Each of Toximul R and Toximul S is a sulfonate nonionic blend produced by Stepan ChemicalCompany, Northfield, Illinois. Water was then added to obtain 10 ml. of solution containing the compound in a concentration of 1000 parts per million. Alternatively, 11 mg. of compound was used, to make up 11 ml. of solution, of which 10 ml. was employed as a 1000 ppm. treating solution, and of which the remaining 1 ml. was diluted further with water to obtain a treating solution containing 100 ppm. of compound. Formulations of the compound at lesser concentrations were prepared in the same manner, using the same solvent. Each solution of test compound was sprayed onto two 4 inch square pots of bean plants containing 6 to 10 plants per pot. The plants were allowed to dry and then 12 leaves were removed and the cut ends wrapped in water soaked cellucotton The leaves were divided between six 100 x 20 mm. plastic petri dishes. Five second instar Mexican bean beetle larvae Epilachna varivestis and five second and thirdins tar southern armyworm larvae Spodoptera eridania were placed in each of three dishes. The dishes were then placed in a room wherein the temperature and relative humidity were controlled at about 780F. and about 51 percent, respectively, for a period of four days, at which time the first evaluation of the effects of the test compounds was made. After this evaluation, two fresh leaves from the original treated pots were placed in each dish.The dishes were again maintained in the temperature and humidity controlled room for an additional three days until the final seven day evaluation was made. Insecticidal effect was determined by counting the number of living larvae of each species, and applying the following rating code 0 all larvae living 1 half or more than half of the larvae living 2 less than half of the larvae living 3 all larvae dead The results of this test are set forth inTable 1, which follows. In the table, column 1 identifies the compounds by the number of the preparative example column 2 lists the concentration of the test compound in the formulation and columns 3 through 6 give the rating code at days 4 and 7 for the two insects against which the compounds were tested. Table 1 Appln. Insect Control Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 8 1000 1 3 2 3 100 1 3 3 3 9 1000 3 3 3 3 100 3 3 3 3 10 1000 2 3 1 3 100 2 3 0 1 11 1000 2 3 3 3 100 2 2 2 2 12 1000 2 2 3 3 100 1 2 3 3 19 1000 2 3 3 3 100 2 3 2 3 20 1000 2 3 3 3 100 1 2 3 3 21 1000 2 3 3 3 100 2 3 3 3 Table 1 continued Appln. Insect Control Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 22 1000 2 2 2 3 100 2 3 3 3 23 1000 2 2 3 3 100 2 3 3 3 24 1000 2 3 1 2 100 2 3 0 1 25 1000 3 3 3 3 100 3 3 2 2 26 1000 2 2 3 3 100 0 2 2 3 27 1000 2 3 3 3 100 1 3 1 1 28 1000 2 2 3 3 100 2 2 3 3 29 1000 3 3 3 3 100 2 3 2 3 Table 1 continued Appln.Insect Control Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 30 1000 2 3 3 3 100 2 3 2 3 31 1000 2 3 2 3 100 2 3 1 1 32 1000 1 3 0 0 100 1 3 0 0 33 1000 1 3 0 0 100 1 3 0 0 34 1000 2 3 3 3 100 2 3 3 3 35 1000 2 3 1 3 100 2 3 0 0 36 1000 2 3 2 2 100 1 2 0 1 37 1000 2 3 0 0 100 2 3 0 0 Table 1 continued Appln. Insect Control Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 38 1000 2 3 0 0 100 2 3 0 0 39 1000 1 2 3 3 100 1 3 2 3 40 1000 3 3 3 3 100 2 2 1 2 41 1000 2 3 3 3 100 1 3 3 3 42 1000 3 3 0 0 100 1 3 0 0 43 1000 3 3 1 1 100 2 3 1 1 44 1000 3 3 0 0 100 2 3 0 0 45 1000 3 3 3 3 100 2 3 3 3 Table 1 continued Appln.Insect Control Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 46 1000 3 3 0 0 100 1 2 0 0 47 1000 2 3 1 2 100 1 3 0 0 48 1000 1 2 0 0 100 0 0 0 0 49 1000 1 2 3 3 100 0 0 3 3 50 1000 2 3 3 3 100 1 3 3 3 51 1000 2 3 3 3 100 2 3 3 3 52 1000 1 3 3 3 100 1 2 3 3 Table 1 continued Appln. Insect Control Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 53 1000 3 3 2 3 100 2 3 1 2 54 1000 1 3 3 3 100 0 1 3 3 55 1000 2 2 1 2 100 2 2 0 1 56 1000 3 3 1 1 100 3 3 0 0 57 1000 2 3 3 3 100 2 2 3 3 59 1000 1 3 3 3 100 0 2 3 3 Table 1 continued Appln.Insect Control Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 60 1000 2 3 3 3 100 1 3 3 3 61 1000 3 3 3 3 100 2 3 3 3 62 1000 3 3 2 3 100 2 3 0 1 63 1000 3 3 3 3 100 3 3 2 3 64 1000 2 2 3 3 100 0 1 2 3 65 1000 1 2 3 3 100 0 2 2 3 66 1000 0 2 0 0 67 1000 2 2 2 2 68 1000 NT 3 NT 3 100 3 3 Table 1 continued Appln. Insect Control Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 69 1000 NT 3 NT 3 100 3 3 70 1000 2 3 3 3 100 2 3 2 3 71 1000 1 3 3 3 100 0 0 3 3 72 1000 2 3 0 0 100 2 3 0 0 73 1000 2 2 2 3 100 1 2 1 3 74 1000 NT 3 NT 3 100 3 3 75 1000 3 3 3 3 100 1 2 3 3 76 1000 2 3 3 3 100 2 3 3 3 Table 1 continued Appln.Insect Control Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 77 1000 2 3 3 3 100 1 2 2 3 78 1000 2 2 3 3 100 1 1 2 3 79 1000 2 3 3 3 100 2 2 2 2 80 1000 2 3 3 3 100 1 2 2 3 81 1000 2 3 3 3 100 1 3 2 2 82 1000 2 2 3 3 100 2 2 3 3 83 1000 2 3 3 3 100 1 2 2 2 84 1000 2 2 3 3 100 2 3 3 3 Table 1 continued Appln. Insect Control Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 85 1000 2 2 3 3 100 1 2 3 3 86 1000 2 3 2 3 100 1 2 3 3 87 1000 1 3 3 3 100 1 1 3 3 88 1000 2 3 1 2 100 1 3 0 0 89 1000 2 3 3 3 100 1 2 2 3 90 1000 0 2 1 3 100 0 1 1 3 91 1000 0 2 2 3 100 0 1 1 2 92 1000 1 3 1 2 100 1 2 1 1 Table 1 continued Appln.Insect Control Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 93 1000 1 2 0 0 100 1 1 0 0 94 1000 2 3 0 0 100 1 2 0 0 95 1000 0 2 3 3 100 0 1 0 2 96 1000 3 3 0 0 100 2 3 0 0 97 1000 2 3 2 3 100 2 3 1 3 98 1000 2 3 3 3 100 2 3 3 3 99 1000 2 2 3 3 100 1 2 2 3 100 1000 2 3 2 3 100 2 3 1 2 Table 1 continued Appln. Insect Control Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 101 1000 1 2 3 3 100 0 1 2 3 102 1000 2 2 3 3 100 2 2 2 3 103 1000 2 3 0 0 100 2 3 0 0 104 1000 1 2 0 0 100 1 1 0 0 105 1000 1 3 1 2 100 0 2 0 0 106 1000 1 3 0 1 100 0 1 0 0 107 1000 1 3 0 0 100 0 2 0 0 108 1000 0 1 0 0 100 0 0 0 0 Table 1 continued Appln. Insect Control Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 109 1000 3 3 0 0 100 0 3 0 0 110 1000 0 0 0 0 100 0 0 0 0 111 1000 3 3 0 0 100 1 1 0 0 112 1000 0 0 1 3 100 0 0 1 1 113 1000 0 1 0 0 100 0 1 0 0 114 1000 1 2 2 2 100 1 2 1 1 115 1000 1 2 0 0 100 1 2 0 0 116 1000 0 0 0 0 100 0 0 0 0 117 1000 1 2 2 2 100 0 1 1 2 Table 1 continued Appln. Insect Control Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 118 1000 2 2 1 1 100 1 2 0 0 119 1000 3 3 0 0 100 1 1 0 0 120 1000 3 3 3 3 100 3 3 3 3 121 1000 2 3 1 1 100 2 3 0 0 122 1000 2 3 1 1 100 1 2 0 0 123 1000 2 2 2 2 100 1 2 1 2 125 1000 1 2 3 3 100 1 2 2 2 126 1000 2 3 3 3 100 1 2 3 3 Table 1 continued Appln.Insect Control Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 129 1000 2 3 3 3 100 1 3 3 3 130 1000 2 3 3 3 100 1 3 2 3 134 1000 1 2 0 0 100 0 0 0 0 136 1000 2 3 3 3 100 2 2 3 3 138 1000 3 3 3 3 100 2 3 2 3 143 1000 N T N T 1 2 100 0 0 10 1 2 Table 1 continued Appln. Insect Control Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 144 1000 N T N T 3 3 100 3 3 10 1 2 155 1000 3 3 100 1 2 10 0 1 156 1000 2 2 100 0 1 10 0 0 199 1000 3 3 100 3 3 10 2 2 200 1000 3 3 100 0 1 10 0 0 202 1000 3 3 100 0 2 10 0 0 Table 1 continued Appln.Insect Control Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 203 1000 N T N T 3 3 100 3 3 10 1 2 204 1000 3 3 100 3 3 10 3 3 205 1000 3 3 100 2 3 10 1 2 208 1000 3 3 100 1 2 10 0 1 210 1000 3 3 100 3 3 10 1 3 212 1000 3 3 100 0 0 10 0 0 Table 1 contiuned Appln. Insect Control Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 213 1000 N T N T 3 3 100 3 3 10 2 3 214 1000 3 3 100 3 3 10 2 3 216 1000 3 3 100 2 2 10 1 1 217 1000 2 3 100 0 0 10 0 0 218 1000 3 3 100 3 3 10 0 0 219 1000 3 3 100 3 3 10 3 3 Table 1 continued Appln.Insect Control Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 220 1000 N T N T 3 3 100 3 3 10 3 3 221 1000 3 3 100 3 3 10 3 3 222 1000 3 3 100 3 3 10 2 3 223 1000 3 3 100 3 3 10 3 3 224 1000 3 3 100 3 3 10 2 3 225 1000 3 3 100 3 3 10 3 3 Table 1 continued Appln. Insect Control Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 226 1000 N T N T 3 3 100 3 3 10 3 3 227 1000 3 3 100 3 3 10 3 3 228 1000 3 3 100 3 3 10 3 3 229 1000 2 3 100 2 3 10 2 3 231 1000 3 3 100 3 3 10 1 3 248 1000 2 3 2 3 100 2 2 3 3 Table 1 continued Appln.Insect Control Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 249 1000 2 3 1 2 100 1 3 0 0 10 1 3 0 0 250 1000 N T N T 1 2 100 0 0 10 0 0 251 1000 1 2 100 0 1 10 0 0 254 1000 2 3 100 3 3 10 1 3 292 1000 2 2 1 2 100 1 2 2 2 294 1000 2 3 1 1 100 2 3 0 0 Table 1 contiuned Appln. Insect Control Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 295 1000 0 1 1 2 100 0 0 0 0 296 1000 1 2 2 2 100 0 1 1 1 297 1000 1 3 2 2 100 1 3 1 2 298 1000 1 3 0 0 100 0 3 0 0 299 1000 1 3 0 0 100 0 3 0 0 300 1000 0 3 0 1 100 0 3 0 1 301 1000 0 0 0 0 100 0 0 0 0 Table 1 continued Appln.Insect Control Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 302 1000 1 2 1 2 100 0 1 0 1 303 1000 2 2 2 2 100 1 2 1 2 304 1000 2 3 0 0 100 2 3 0 0 305 1000 2 3 1 1 100 2 3 0 0 306 1000 2 3 0 0 100 2 3 0 0 307 1000 3 3 0 0 100 3 3 0 0 Table 1 continued Appln. Insect Control Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 308 1000 1 3 1 2 100 2 3 0 1 309 1000 2 3 0 0 100 1 2 0 0 293 1000 2 3 2 3 100 1 3 3 3 Many of the compounds of the present invention were also tested in the same procedure described above but at lower concentrations. In these tests, percent control was determined by counting the number of living larvae per dish and using Abbottls formula 1W. f .Abbott, A Method of Computing theEffectiveness of an Insecticide , J. Econ. Entomol.18, 265 7 1925 Percent Control No. of survivors in control No. of survivors in treatment x 100 No. survivors in control The results are set forth in Tables 2A and 2B, which follow. Table 2A Insect Control Appln. Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm. 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 8 10 60 80 36 100 25 80 100 100 100 50 80 100 100 100 100 80 100 100 100 8 1.0 N T N T 13 33 2.5 80 83 5.0 93 92 10. 100 100 9 10 71 100 29 77 25 71 100 100 100 50 86 100 100 100 100 86 100 100 100 9 1.0 80 86 N T N T 2.5 87 100 5.0 87 100 10. 100 Table 2A continued Insect Control Appln.Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm. 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 10 10 0 13 N T N T 25 73 100 50 80 100 100 93 100 11 10 67 93 0 0 25 93 100 0 0 50 100 100 27 47 100 100 100 53 86 11 1.0 0 0 N T N T 2.5 0 0 5. 20 20 10. 40 47 19 10 47 67 73 100 25 60 100 87 100 50 80 100 93 100 100 100 100 100 100 Table 2A continued Insect Control Appln. Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm. 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 19 1.0 N T N T 0 0 2.5 0 40 5. 7 93 10. 40 100 20 10 73 100 13 13 25 100 100 53 86 50 93 100 73 93 100 93 100 100 100 20 1.0 0 0 N T N T 2.5 0 53 5. 0 80 10. 33 100 21 10 80 100 80 100 25 80 100 100 100 50 93 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 Table 2A continued Insect Control Appln. Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm. 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 21 1.0 0 0 0 0 2.5 0 7 0 28 5. 0 93 13 93 10 20 100 80 100 22 10 40 53 67 100 25 93 100 100 100 50 87 100 100 100 100 93 100 100 100 22 1.0 N T N T 0 0 2.5 7 7 5. 13 13 10. 40 100 23 10 100 100 13 53 25 100 100 80 100 50 100 100 93 100 100 100 100 100 100 Table 2A contiuned Insect Control Appln. Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm. 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 23 1.0 20 47 N T N T 2.5 67 100 5. 87 100 10. 87 100 24 10 93 100 N T N T 25 100 100 50 100 100 100 93 100 24 1.0 0 20 N T N T 2.5 27 27 5. 33 100 10. 67 100 25 10 13 33 0 0 25 73 100 0 33 50 60 100 13 40 100 100 100 80 100 Table 2A continued Insect Control Appln.Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExampel No. ppm. 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 26 10 0 0 0 0 25 0 67 0 0 50 13 100 60 100 100 28 100 100 100 27 10 0 33 N T N T 25 0 60 50 27 100 100 40 100 28 10 N T N T 100 100 25 100 100 50 100 100 100 100 100 28 1.0 N T N T 0 0 2.5 0 93 5. 0 93 10. 60 100 Table 2A continued Insect Control Appln. Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm. 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 29 10 27 100 0 0 25 33 100 7 33 50 33 100 7 47 100 40 100 73 86 29 1.0 0 0 N T N T 2.5 13 33 5. 27 72 10. 60 100 30 10 0 13 0 0 25 13 87 0 27 50 27 87 20 33 100 40 100 33 100 31 10 7 7 N T N T 25 20 67 50 40 80 100 47 100 Table 2A continued Insect Control Appln.Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm. 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 32 10 73 100 N T N T 25 80 100 50 86 100 100 93 100 32 1.0 0 13 N T N T 2.5 33 87 5. 53 93 10. 80 100 33 10 0 20 N T N T 25 0 87 50 0 93 100 40 100 34 10 0 100 40 53 25 33 100 60 93 50 73 100 67 100 100 93 100 80 100 Table 2A continued Insect Control Appln. Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm. 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 34 1.0 0 40 N T N T 2.5 7 100 5. 13 100 10. 27 100 35 10 27 100 N T N T 25 40 100 50 60 100 100 67 100 35 1.0 0 53 N T N T 2.5 47 87 5. 53 100 10. 73 100 37 10 0 0 N T N T 25 0 60 50 20 100 100 33 100 Table 2A continued Insect Control Appln.Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm. 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 38 10 27 100 N T N T 25 33 100 50 40 100 100 67 100 38 1.0 0 0 N T N T 2.5 0 100 5. 60 100 10. 67 100 39 10 0 0 0 0 25 0 100 36 7 50 27 100 21 86 100 80 100 64 100 41 10 73 100 60 100 25 80 100 100 100 50 86 100 100 100 100 86 100 100 100 Table 2A continued Insect Control Appln. Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm. 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 42 10 67 100 N T N T 25 73 100 50 73 100 100 86 100 50 10 13 67 67 100 25 80 93 100 100 50 86 93 100 100 100 93 93 100 100 63 10 0 53 100 100 25 67 86 100 100 50 73 93 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 65 10 N T N T 27 93 25 80 100 50 86 100 100 100 100 Table 2A continued Insect Control Appln.Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm. 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 65 1.0 N T N T 0 0 2.5 7 7 5. 13 47 10. 27 100 66 10 0 0 0 0 50 0 7 0 0 100 0 100 0 0 67 10 40 67 0 0 50 60 100 0 0 100 93 100 0 0 68 10 60 73 40 73 50 73 80 100 100 100 83 100 100 100 Table 2A contined Insect Control Appln. Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm. 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 68 1.0 0 0 0 0 2.5 7 33 7 13 5. 20 47 13 33 10. 53 100 27 86 69 10 0 0 0 0 50 20 73 53 93 100 80 100 93 100 70 10 0 73 7 7 25 60 93 47 80 50 67 100 67 100 100 73 100 73 100 70 1.0 0 0 N T N T 2.5 13 27 5. 33 40 10. 40 100 Table 2A continued Insect Control Appln.Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm. 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 71 10 N T N T 47 87 25 100 100 50 100 100 100 100 100 71 1.0 N T N T 0 0 2.5 7 47 5. 27 86 10. 47 100 71 1.0 N T N T N T 0 2.5 21 5. 64 10. 100 72 10 27 100 N T N T 25 33 100 50 40 100 100 87 100 Table 2A continued Insect Control Appln. Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm. 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 72 1.0 33 53 N T N T 2.5 73 100 5. 86 100 10. 100 100 73 10 7 27 0 0 25 40 67 7 53 50 67 100 47 100 100 73 100 100 100 74 10 27 93 100 100 50 47 100 100 100 100 53 100 100 100 74 1.0 7 7 0 0 2.5 27 53 7 47 5. 33 93 27 73 10. 53 100 60 93 Table 2A continued Insect Control Appln.Rate Mexican Bean Beetie Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm. 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 75 10 0 13 33 47 25 7 40 80 100 50 27 47 100 100 100 53 93 100 100 76 10 N T 100 N T 0 25 100 71 50 72 93 100 100 100 76 1.0 0 20 N T N T 2.5 87 86 5. 87 93 10. 93 100 77 10 N T N T 0 0 25 13 27 50 33 53 100 60 80 Table 2A continued Insect Control Appln. Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm. 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 78 10 N T N T 0 0 25 20 100 50 27 100 100 87 100 79 10 N T N T 0 0 25 0 0 50 13 33 100 47 86 80 10 7 27 33 100 25 33 93 100 100 50 67 100 100 100 100 80 100 100 100 80 1.0 N T N T 0 0 2.5 7 40 5. 7 60 10. 27 93 Table 2A continued Insect Control Appln.Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExampel No. ppm. 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 81 10 0 33 0 0 25 7 53 27 67 50 27 100 87 100 100 73 100 87 100 82 10 100 100 100 100 25 100 100 100 100 50 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 82 1.0 73 100 0 0 2.5 100 100 27 93 5. 100 100 33 93 10. 100 100 87 100 82 0.1 0 0 N T N T 0.25 53 93 0.5 72 100 1.0 80 100 10. 100 100 Table 2A continued Insect Control Appln. Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm. 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 83 10 100 100 80 100 25 100 100 100 100 50 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 83 1.0 0 7 0 0 2.5 20 33 7 67 5. 20 40 33 93 10. 87 93 33 100 84 10 93 100 93 100 25 93 100 100 100 50 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 84 1.0 13 47 0 27 2.5 86 100 60 93 5. 93 100 93 100 10. 100 100 100 100 Table 2A continued Insect Control Appln.Rate Mexican Bean Bettel Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm. 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 85 10 7 33 47 80 25 53 66 100 100 50 67 86 100 100 100 93 100 100 100 86 10 7 53 13 20 25 33 86 33 100 50 73 86 93 100 100 86 93 100 100 87 10 N T N T 20 86 25 100 100 50 100 100 100 100 100 87 10 N T N T 0 13 2.5 53 93 5. 80 100 10 100 100 Table 2A contined Insect Control Appln.Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm. 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 88 10 100 100 N T N T 25 93 100 50 86 100 100 100 100 88 1.0 27 53 N T N T 2.5 100 100 5. 100 100 10. 100 100 89 10 60 93 13 33 25 86 100 100 100 50 86 100 100 100 100 93 100 100 100 90 10 N T N T 0 53 25 67 93 50 100 100 100 100 100 Table 2A continued Insect Control Appln.Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm. 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 96 10 47 73 N T N T 25 53 100 50 53 100 100 100 100 97 10 86 100 0 72 25 100 100 13 80 50 100 100 33 93 100 100 100 40 93 99 10 13 47 7 40 25 67 93 33 100 50 80 100 73 100 100 86 100 93 100 101 10 N T N T 13 40 25 86 93 50 100 100 100 100 100 Table 2A continued Insect Control Appln. Rate Mexican Bean Beetle Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm. 4 days 7 days 4 days 7 days 102 10 N T N T 33 47 25 93 100 50 100 100 100 100 100 103 10 0 100 N T N T 25 20 100 50 27 100 100 33 100 109 1.0 N T N T 0 0 2.5 7 13 5. 13 20 10. 20 73 Table 2B Insect Control Appln.Rate Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm. 4 days 7 days 144 100 100 100 50 53 72 25 60 72 10 13 20 199 100 100 100 50 100 100 25 100 100 10 100 100 199 10 47 87 5 0 53 2.5 0 0 1 0 0 203 100 100 100 50 100 100 25 100 100 10 53 100 203 10 100 100 5 27 53 2.5 0 72 1 0 0 Table 2B continued Insect Control Appln. Rate Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm. 4 days 7 days 204 100 100 100 50 100 100 25 100 100 10 60 100 204 10 100 100 5 100 100 2.5 80 100 1 60 87 205 100 100 100 50 100 100 25 72 100 10 47 60 208 100 100 50 100 25 67 10 7 210 100 100 100 50 100 100 25 100 100 10 40 100 Table 2B continued Insect Control Appln.Rate Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm. 4 days 7 days 213 100 100 100 50 100 100 25 100 100 10 100 100 213 10 100 100 5 67 100 2.5 53 100 1 0 7 214 100 100 100 50 100 100 25 100 100 10 100 100 214 10 100 100 5 67 93 2.5 0 47 1 0 0 218 100 100 100 50 100 100 25 100 100 10 80 80 Table 2B continued Insect Control Appln. Rate Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm. 4 days 7 days 218 10 100 100 5 100 100 2.5 100 100 1 60 93 219 100 100 100 50 100 100 25 100 100 10 100 100 219 10 100 100 5 100 100 2.5 100 100 1 13 40 220 100 100 100 50 100 100 25 100 100 10 100 100 220 10 100 100 5 100 100 2.5 80 100 1 13 53 Tanle 2B continued Insect Control Appln.Rate Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm. 4 days 7 days 221 100 100 100 50 100 100 25 100 100 10 100 100 221 10 72 100 5 87 100 2.5 80 100 1 20 53 221 1 7 33 .5 0 27 .25 0 0 .125 0 0 222 100 100 100 50 100 100 25 100 100 10 100 100 222 10 100 100 5 93 100 2.5 87 100 1 72 100 Table 2B continued Insect Control Appln. Rate Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm. 4 days 7 days 222 1 60 93 .5 33 47 .25 7 7 .125 0 0 223 100 100 100 50 100 100 25 100 100 10 100 100 223 10 80 93 5 53 93 2.5 47 100 1 20 33 223 1 53 67 .5 0 13 .25 0 0 .125 0 0 224 100 100 100 50 100 100 25 100 100 10 72 100 Table 2B continued Insect Control Appln.Rate Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm. 4 days 7 days 224 10 13 100 5 0 53 2.5 0 0 1 0 0 225 100 100 100 50 93 100 25 93 100 25 93 100 10 93 100 226 100 100 100 50 100 100 25 100 100 10 100 100 227 100 100 100 50 100 100 25 100 100 10 87 93 228 100 100 100 50 100 100 25 100 100 10 100 100 Table 2B continued Insect Control Appln. Rate Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm. 4 days 7 days 228 10 100 100 5 100 100 2.5 100 100 1 100 100 229 100 100 100 50 100 100 25 100 100 10 100 100 248 100 100 100 50 100 100 25 100 100 10 0 100 248 10 67 100 5 0 60 2.5 0 47 1 0 0 Table 2B continued Insect Control Appln.Rate Southern ArmywormExample No. ppm. 4 days 7 days 254 100 100 100 50 100 100 25 100 100 10 87 100 254 10 20 80 5 0 33 2.5 0 0 1 0 0 Table 2C Insect Control Appln. Rate Mexican Bean BeetleExample No. ppm. 4 days 7 days 294 10 0 0 25 60 60 50 33 80 100 80 100 304 10 0 7 25 13 27 50 53 47 100 67 87 305 10 67 93 25 67 93 50 86 100 100 86 100 1 67 80 2.5 80 100 5 86 93 10 93 100 0.1 0 0 0.5 0 0 1.0 7 53 2.5 93 100 10 93 100 Table 2C continued Insect Control Appln.Rate Mexican Bean BeetleExample No. ppm. 4 days 7 days 306 10 93 100 25 93 100 50 93 100 100 93 100 1.0 7 27 2.5 86 93 5 93 100 10 100 100 307 10 73 100 25 80 100 50 80 100 100 80 100 1.0 0 13 2.5 27 40 5. 53 80 10. 93 93 Compounds of the present invention were also evaluated for the control of housefly Musca domcstica . In this evaluation, 3 mg. of each test compound was dissolved in 3 Inl. of the same solvent described above for the evaluation against Mexican bean beetle and southern armyworm. Water was added to the solution, to a total volume of 30 ml. This provided a 100 ppm. solution. 1 ml. portion of the 100 ppm solution was diluted with 9 ml. of water to provide a 10 ppm. solution. A 5 ml. portion of each concentration solution was mixed with 250 grams of an artificial diet for housefly larvae to provide final concentrations of 2 ppm. and 1 ppm. Two replications were used for each concentration. Each treated diet was placed in a jar with 25 fresh housefly eggs on a filter paper, the top of the jar was covered with a paper towel rubber banded to the rim of the jar, and the jar was maintained for seven days at 780F. and 45 percent relative humidity.Housefly pupae were then collected and the percent control of the pupae, compared to the pupae in the control, were determined for each treatment. The pupae were then maintained at room temperature for another week, and the percent control of the adult flies, compared to the adult flies in the control, was similarly determined. Results were as follows. Table 3 Appln. Rate Housefly Control Example No. ppm. Pupae 7 days Adult flies 14 days 129 2 54 100 1 42 90 136 2 18 82 1 22 48 204 2 8 94 205 2 0 66 218 2 0 50 1 0 42 Table 3 continued Appln. Rate Housefly Control Example No. ppm.Pupae 7 days Adult flies 14 days 220 2 62 80 1 52 64 221 2 6 78 1 0 60 222 2 92 100 1 64 100 226 2 46 74 1 10 22 227 2 88 98 1 0 56 EXAMPLE 310 The following is an example of a wettabl powder prepared utilizing a compound of the invention. Wt. t Active ingredient1 50 Wetting agent2 5 Dispersing agent 3 5 Anti caking agent4 5 Clay diluent 35 100Any compound of formula I DUPANOL ME sodium lauryl sulfate 3POLYFON O lignin sulfonate 4ZEOLEX 7 silicon dioxide 5BARDEN S CLAY The active ingredient and excipients were mixed together in a ribbon blender and then poured through a hammer mill to reduce the particle size and further blend the ingredients. The blended material was then further ground by passing it through a fluid energy mill set up to provide material having a particle size between 5 and 15 microns