# Connector device for use between printed circuit boards.

## Abstract
For easy interconnection of two printed circuit boards, a connector device is composed of a male connector having connector pins and mounted on an end of one of the printed circuit boards, and a female connector having con nector pin sockets and mounted on an end of the other printed circuit board. The printed circuit boards are put together perpendicularly to each other with the connector pins fitted respectively in the connector pin sockets. The printed circuit boards are interconnected mechanically and electrically by the conenctor device.

## Claims
CLAIMS. 1. A connector device comprising a a first printed circuit board with electronic components mounted thereon b a second printed circuit board with electronic components mounted thereon c a male connector mounted on an end of said first printed circuit board and having at least one connector pin d a female connector mounted on an end of said second printed circuit board and having at least one connector pin socket and e said first and second printed circuit boards being mechanically and electrically interconnectable with each other in substantially perpendicular relation with said at least one connector pin fitted in said at least one connector pin socket.

## Description
TITLE OF THE INVENTION CONNECTOR DEVICE FOR USE BETWEEN PRINTED CIRCUIT BOARDS BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to a connector device for use between printed circuit boards, and more particularly to a connector device for use between two printed circuit boards extending perpendicularly to each other. Electronic devices have printed circuit boards in most cases. In certain applications, printed circuit boards with electronic components mounted thereon are disposed in perpendicular relation to each other and interconnected for signal transmission therebetween. A connecting arrangement is illustrated in Fig. 1 of the accompanying drawings. Printed circuit boards 1 with parts 4 installed thereon have on their ends male connectors 2 having connector pins 3. A back panel 5 has a plurality of female connectors 2 with connector pin sockets 3 . For connection, the printed circuit boards 1 are brought perpendicularly toward the back panel 5 until the connector pins 3 on the male connectors 2 are inserted into the sockets 3 , respectively, in the female connectors 2 . Another set of plural printed circuit boards 1 is also mounted on the back panel 5. The printed circuit boards 1 thus mounted on the back panel 5 are interconnected by connectors thereof for signal transmission therebetween. There are some instances in which no back panel is used, and printed circuit boards are coupled in perpendicular relation to each other with mounted components exposed to the exterior to provide easy access for adjustment. Fig. 2 of the accompanying drawings shows one such connecting arrangement. A pair of printed circuit boards 1, 1 with electronic components 4, 4 attached thereto are interconnected perpendicularly to each other, and connectors 2, 2 on ends of the printed circuit boards 1, 1 are coupled by a cable 6. This connecting construction however is disadvantageous in that attaching the cable 6 is a troublesome task, and the proportion of the cost of the cable 6 to the overall cost of the connecting means including the connectors cannot be negligible. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION It is an object of the present invention to provide a connector device for use between printed circuit boards which is free of the foregoing prior problems, and can interconnect the printed circuit boards with ease. According to the present invention, a connector device comprising a first printed circuit board with electronic components mounted thereon, a second printedcircuit board with electronic components mounted thereon, a male connector mounted on an end of the first printed circuit board and having at least one connector pin, a female connector mounted on an end of the second printed circuit board and having at least one CoRnestPr pin socket, the first and second printed circuit boards being mechanically and electrically interconnectable with each other in substantially perpendicular relation with the at least one connector pin fitted in the at least one connector pin socket. With this arrangement, the horizontal and vertical printed circuit boards can easily be interconnected to provide electrical connection between the connectors through a simple operation. Since no cable connector is needed, the entire connector device is less costly to construct. Any electronic component on the printed circuit boards thus coupled together is exposed for easy adjustment thereof. The above and other objects, features and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent from the following description when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which preferred embodiments of the present invention are shown by way of illustrative example. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS Fig. 1 is a side elevational view of a conventional connecting arrangement in which printed circuit boards are mounted on a back panel Fig. 2 is a side elevational view of another prior connecting arrangement in which printed circuit boards are interconnected in perpendicular relation to each other Fig. 3 is a side elevational view of printedcircuit boards to be coupled by a connector device of the present invention Fig. 4 is a side elevational view of the printedcircuit boards shown in Fig. 3 which are interconnected Fig. 5 is a perspective view of the printed circuit boards of Fig. 3 prior to their being interconnected Fig. 6 is is a side elevational view of printedcircuit boards to be coupled by a connector device according to another embodiment of the present invention Fig. 7 is a side elevational view of the printedcircuit boards illustrated in Fig. 3 which are interconnected DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS A connector device according to an embodiment of the present invention will be described with reference to Figs. 3 through 5. As shown in Fig. 3, a printed circuit board 1 with electronic components 4 disposed thereon has a male connector 2 mounted at one end. Although only one electronic component 4 is shown, a plurality of electronic parts such as capacitors, resistors, coils, transistors and the like are normally installed on the printed circuit board 1. The male connector 2 has an array of connector pins 3 Fig. 5 projecting from the end of the printed circuit board 1. The connector pins 3 are coupled to lead wires 7 fixed to a casing of the male connector 2 and leading to the reverse side of the printed circuit board 1, where the lead wires 7 are soldered to printed wires thereon. The male connector 2 is thus secured mechanically to the printed circuit board 1 with the connector pins 3 connected electrically to the printed circuit board 1. A printed circuit board 1 to be connected to the printed circuit board 1 has electronic components 4 installed thereon and a female connector 2 mounted on one end. Although only one electronic component 4 is shown, a plurality of electronic parts such as capacitors, resistors, coils, transistors and the like are normally installed on the printed circuit board 1 . The female connector 2 has an array of connector pin sockets 3 defined therein. The connector pin sockets 3 are coupled to lead wires 7 fixed to a casing of the female connector 2 and leading to the reverse side of the printed circuit board 1 , where the lead wires 7 are soldered to printed wires thereon.The female connector 2 is thus secured mechanically to the printed circuit board 1 with the connector pin sockets 3 connected electrically to the printed circuit board 1 . The connector pins 3 and the connector pin sockets 3 are shaped to provide interfitting coupling engagement with each other. To connect the printed circuit boards 1, 1 perpendicularly, the printed circuit board 1 with the male connector 2 is brought horizontally toward the printed circuit board 1 with the female connector 2 , as shown in Fig. 4, and the printed circuit boards 1, 1 are then put together so that the connector pins 3 will be fitted respectively in the connector pin sockets 3 .At this time, the lead wires 7, 7 on the printedcircuit boards 1, 1 are electrically connected to each other through the connectors 2, 2 . The printed circuit boards 1, 1 as they are just about to be joined are shown in Fig. 5. Figs. 6 and 7 are illustrative of a connector device according to another embodiment of the present invention. As shown in Fig. 6, a printed circuit board 10 with electronic components 40 disposed thereon has a female connector 20 mounted at one end. Although only one electronic component 40 is shown, a plurality of electronic parts such as capacitors, resistors, coils, transistors and the like are normally installed on the printed circuit board 10. The female connector 20 has an array of connector pin sockets 30 defined therein. The connector pin sockets 30 are coupled to lead wires 70 fixed to a casing of the female connector 20 and leading to the reverse side of the printed circuit board 10, where the lead wires 70 are soldered to printed wires thereon. The female connector 20 is thus secured mechanically to the printed circuit board 10 with the connector pin sockets 30 connected electrically to the printedcircuit board 10. A printed circuit board 10 to be connected to the printed circuit board 10 has electronic components 40 installed thereon and a male connector 20 mounted on one end. Although only one electronic component 40 is shown, a plurality of electronic parts such as capacitors, resistors, coils, transistors and the like are normally installed on the printed circuit board 10 . The male connector 20 has an array of connector pins 30 projecting from the end of the printed circuit board 10 . The connector pins 3 are coupled to lead wires 70 fixed to a casing of the male connector 20 and leading to the reverse side of the printed circuit board 10 , where the lead wires 70 are soldered to printed wires thereon. The male connector 20 is thus secured mechanically to the printed circuit board 10 with the connector pins 30 connected electrically to the printed circuit board 10 . The connector pins 30 and the connector pin sockets 30 are shaped to provide interfitting coupling engagement with each other. To connect the printed circuit boards 10, 10 perpendicularly, the printed circuit board 10 with the female connector 20 is brought horizontally toward the printed circuit board 10 with the female connector 20 , as shown in Fig. 7, and the printed circuit boards 10, 10 are then put together so that the connector pins 30 will be fitted respectively in the connector pin sockets 30 . The lead wires 70, 70 on the printed circuit boards 10, 10 are electrically connected to each other through the connectors 20, 20 . While in the illustrated embodiments only one connector 2, 20 is mounted on the end of the printedcircuit board 1, 10 and also only one connector 2 , 20 is mounted on the end of the printed circuit board 1 , 10 , a plurality of spaced connectors may be installed on each printed circuit board. With the arrangement of the present invention, the horizontal and vertical printed circuit boards can easily be interconnected to provide electrical connection between the connectors through a simple operation. Since no cable connector is needed, the entire connector device is less costly to construct.Any electronic component on the printed circuit boards thus coupled together is exposed for easy adjustment thereof. Although certain preferred embodiments have been shown and described, it should be understood that many changes and modifications may be made therein without departing from the scope of the appended claim.