# Silver halide photographic material.

## Abstract
A silver halide photographic material comprising a support and one or more layers, at least one layer containing a compound of the following formula I and at least one compound selected from among the compounds of the following formulae II , III and IV is disclosed Formula I

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A silver halide photographic material comprising a support and one or more layers, at least one layer containing a compound of the following formulaEMI26.1 wherein A and B each independently represents the nonmetallic atoms necessary to form a hetero ring, and X is a negative ion and at least one layer containing a compound of the following formulae II , III , or IV Formula Il EMI26.2 wherein the or each R1 is independently a hydrogen atom, a hydroxyl group, a halogen atom, an alkyl group which may have a substituent, an aralkyl group which may have a substituent, an alkoxy group which may have a substituent, an acyl group which may have a substituent, a carboxymethyl group which may have a substituent, COOM or SO3M group wherein M is a hydrogen atom, an alkali metal atom or an ammonium group R2 is a COOM or SO3M group wherein M is as defined above and nÚ is 1, 2 or 3. Formula III EMI27.1 wherein R3 has the same meaning as R2 defined above and n2 is the same as nl defined above. Formula IV EMI27.2 wherein R4 has the same meaning as R2 defined above and n3 and n4 each independently is O or 1 such that they are not both 0, and n5 is 1 or 2. 2. A silver halide photographic material according to claim 1, wherein said A or B in formula I has the formulaEMI27.3 wherein n is 2 or 3 and R is a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group generally having 1 to 6 carbon atoms. 3. A silver halide photographic material according to claim 2 wherein n is 2. 4. A silver halide photographic material according to claim 1 wherein said A or B in formula I has the following formula EMI28.1 wherein R1 is a hydroxyl group, a halogen atom, an alkyl group which may have a substituent, an aralkyl group which may have a substituent, an acyl group which may have a substituent, a carboxymethyl group which may have a substituent, or a COOH or SO3H group and m is O, 1 or 2. 5. A silver halide photographic material according to claim 4 wherein said A or B in formula I has the formulaEMI28.2 6. A silver halide photographic material according to claim 1 wherein said A in formula I has the formulaEMI28.3 and said B in formula I has the formulaEMI28.4 7. A silver halide photographic material according to any one of claims 1 to 6 wherein said compound of formula I is present in an amount from 0.001 to 2 mg per gram of total binder present in a hydrophilic colloidal layer. 8. A silver halide photographic material according to any one of claims 1 to 7 wherein at least one compound of formula II , III , or IV is present in an amount of 0.1 to 100 g per mol of the silver halide. 9. A silver halide photographic material according to any one of claims 1 to 8 which is suitable for X ray use.

## Description
SILVER HALIDE PHOTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL FIELD OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to a silver halide photographic material that is designed to produce an image having a minimum quality deterioration and reduced fog. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Recent versions of silver halide photographic materials use more silver than gelatin to improve the photographic characteristics and to make it more compatible with processing steps such as development and fixation. The development step is usually performed rapidly within 20 to 50 seconds at high pHs under elevated temperatures 30 to 400C , and this often causes troubles such as the shedding of layers or scrathing, producing only a photographic image of deteriorated quality. In the manufacture of silver halide photographic materials, there is an increasing demand for shortening the period of drying the silver halide emulsion layer formed on the base.This demand for a shorter drying period or faster coating operation makes drying at low humidities unavoidable. The silver halide photographic material dried quickly at low humidities has a lower degree of hardening than the material dried by the conventional method, and when it is subjected to the subsequent rapid development at elevated temperatures, a photographic image of greatly impaired quality is formed.Many studies have been made on the method of producing silver halide photographic materials that withstand severe conditions employed for rapid processing at elevated temperatures. One typical method is to use a hardener for hardevnmj v gelatin used as a binder in the photographic material. Known hardeners are inorganic compounds such as chrome alum, as well as organic compounds such as aldehyde compounds e.g.formaldehyde and glutaraldehyde , compounds having active halogens as described in U.S. Patent No. 3,288,755, compounds waving reactive ethylenically unsatrated bonds as described in U.S. Patent No. 3,635, 718, epoxy compounds of the type described in U. S. Patent No. 3,091,537, and halogen carboxyaldehydes such as mucochloric acid. But if these hardeners are incorporated in the silver halide photographic material in the amount necessary for making it resistant to rapid processing at increased temperatures, they cause adverse effects on the properties of the photographic material by increasing the fog, decreasing the sensitivity, varying the gradation or reducing the maximum density, or their hardening power changes with time to cause after hardening .Another method for preparing a silver halide photographic material capable of producing a quality image after rapid processing under elevated temperatures is to incorporate more gelatin binder with respect to the amount of silver in the photographic material, but this method either reduces the sensitivity or renders the photographic material less compatible with development, fixing or washing procedures. Therefore, it has long been desired to devise a technique for preparing a silver halide photographic material that forms a high quality image after repid processing at elevated temperatures without increasing the amount of gelatin binder with respect to the silver content. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION An object of the present invention is to provide a silver halide photographic material that is free from the defects of the conventional product and which withstands image forming processing under severe conditions such as repid development at elevated temperatures. These objects of the present invention can be accomplished by a silver halide photographic material that contains in one or more of the constituent layers of the photographic material at least one compound of the following formula I and at least one compound selected from amoung compounds of the following formulas II , III and IV EMI3.1 EMI4.1 Wherein A and B are each a group of non metallic atoms necessary to form a hereto ring X is a negative ion e.g. C1 , By , Coo4 or CH3SO3 , R1 is a hydrogen atom, a hydroxyl group, the same or different halogen atoms, an alkyl group which may have a substituent, an aralkyl group which may have a substituent, an alkoxy group which may have a substituent, an acyl group which may have a substituent, a carboxymethyl group which may have a substituent, COOM or S03M group M is a hydrogen atom, an alkali metal atom or an ammonium group R2, R3 and R4 are each a COOM or S03M group M is a hydrogen atom, an alkali metal atom or an ammonium group n and n are each 1, 2 or 3 ns is 1 or 1 2 2 and n3 and n4 are 0 or 1 but they are not both 0. The present invention is characterized by incorporating a compound of formula I and at least one compound which is represented by formulae II , III and IV in combination in a silver halide photographic material. At least one compound of each type may be incorporated in at least one constituent layer, or the two compounds may be incorporated separately in two or more constituent layers on the same side of the support on which the silver halide emulsion layers are formed. The object of the present invention can be achieved in either way.In a preferred embodiment, the compound of formula I hereunder referred to as compound A is added to a silver halide emulsion layers and at least one compwad represented by formulae II , III and iv is incorporated in the same emulsion layer and or a non sensitive layer. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION Compounds A used in the silver halide photographic material of the present invention are described in JapanesePatent Publication Nos. 41095 72, 39169 73 and 48172 74 as compounds capable of hardening protein, forming a gelatin hardened image, and hardening vinyl polymers. If compunds A are contained in a silver halide photographic material in such an amount that they exhibit the hardening effect i.e. when they are used as binders , the sensitivity of the photographic material is decreased or its gradation properties impaired. On the other hand, if these cas unds are used in such an amount that they do not exhibit the hardening effect i.e. if they are not used as binders , the decrease in the sensitivity and gradation properties of the photographic material can be prevented, but then the material is prone to cause heavy fogging. Compounds B also used in the present invention are known as stabilizers for inhibiting the occurrence of fog in silver halide photographic materials, but is the photographic material containing these compounds is subjected to rapid processing under severe conditions such as elevated temperatures, only a low quality image is produced. Therefore, canpwnd A and B .have canflictije properties ies but when they are contained in a silver photographic material in combination, it is given good photographic characteristics in that it produces a quality image after rapid processing under elevated temperatures without increasing the degree of binder hardening i.e. reducing the sensitivity or experiencing increased fog. Preferred compunds A are such that groups A and orB of non metallic atoms necessary to form a heterp ring are represented byEMI6.1 wherein R is a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group n is 2 or 3. Compounds A to be used in the present invention are most preferable in the case where non metallic atoms A necessary to form a hetero rings have the following formula EMI6.2 wherein R1 is a hydroxyl group, a halogen atom, an alkyl group which may have a substituent, an aralkyl group which may have a tsubstituent, an acyl group which may have a substituent, a carboxymethyl group which may have a substituent, vor a COOH or S03H group and m is an integer of O to 2, and non metallic atoms B have the following formulaEMI6.3 wherein R is a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group and n is an integer of 2 or 3. Typical examples of compounds A that can be used in the present invention are listed below. EMI7.1 Compounds A can be easily synthesized from azole awou.nds havingamethyl mercapto group, as illusted below.Synthesis of compound A 5 A mixture of 2 methylthiobenzothiazole 16 g and 1,3dibromopropane 25 g was heated at 1600C for 4 hours. After cooling, the resulting crystal was filtered off and recrystallized from ethanol to produce an acicular crystal of the end compound 14 g having amelting point of 2600c. Synthesis of compound A 7 Compound A 7 can be synthesized by the method described in Chemical Abstracts, 72, 3.to666 1970 . The amount of compomds A to be used in the present invention varies with the type of binder e.g. gelatin , the drying conditions used in their preparation, and the composition of silver halide in the specific emulsion, but preferably, they are used in an amount of about 0.001 to 2 mg per gram of the total binder present in the hydrophilic colloidal layer on the same side of the base as the photosensitive silver halide emulsion layers. The amount of 0.01 to 1 mg is particularly preferred, and the co npounds are generally used as a 0.1 to.1 solution in water or a solvent such as methanol. Compounds A may be added in any step prior to the coating and drying steps in the process of preparing the photographic material. Illustrative compounds B of formulae II , III and IV for use in the present invention are listed below. EMI9.1 EMI10.1 EMI11.1 EMI12.1 These coapomds B can be readily synthesized by any of the methods described in Gazzetta Chimica Italiana, 57, pp. 793 802, 1927 Chemical Abstracts, 41, p. 5495, 1947 Helvetica Chimica Acta., 43, p. 644, 1960 BeilsteinOrganishe Chemie, 11, p. 304 and 6, p. 978 and U.S. PatentNo. 2,487,586. The cowsunds may also be available from the commerical market. The amount of compands B to be used in the present invention varies with their type and that of the silver halide emulsion used, but usually, they are added in an amount of 0.1 to 100 g, preferably from 0.5 to 50 g, per mol of the silver halide. In most cases, the compaunds are used as a 1 to 50 solution in water or a solvent such as methanol. They may be added at any stage prior to the coating step in the process of the preparation of the silver halide photographic material. Illustrative silver halides that can be incorporated in silver halide photographic material of the present invention are silver chloride, silver bromide, silver iodide, silver chlorobromide, silveriodobromide, silver chloroiodobromide and mixtures thereof silver iodobromide is most preferred. Gelatin is most preferred as a binder or hydrophilic colloid for use in the present invention, butif necessary, gelatin may be used together with gelatin derivatives, colloidal albumin, agar, gum arabic, alginic acid, cellulose derivatives, acrylamide, imidated polyacrylamide, casein, and polymers such as vinyl alcohol polymers, polyvinyl alcohol, polyvinyl pyrrolidone and hydrolyzed polyvinyl acetate. The silver halide photographic emulsion used in the present invention may contain any of the known photographic addenda such as chemical sensitizers, spectral sensitizers, antifoggants, hard contrasting agents, gelatin hardeners, surfactants, film properties modifying agents, thickeners and halftone dot modifying agents. Illustrative chemical sensitizers include activated gelatin noble metal sensitizers such as water soluble gold salts, platinum salts, palladium salts, rhodium salts and iridium salts sulfur sensitizers selenium sensitizers and reduction sensitizers such as polyamine and stannous chloride. These chemical sensitizers may be used either alone or in combination. The spectral sensitizers that can be added are not limited to any particular compounds, and common spectral sensitizers such as cyanine or merocyanin dyes like zero , mono , di and tri methine dyes may be used either individually or in mixture for optical sensitization. For details of the spectral sensitizers, see various prior art references such as U.S.Patents Nos. 2,688,545, 2,912,329, 3,397,060, 3,615,635, and 3,628,964 British Patents Nos. 1,195,302, 1,242,588 and 1,293,862 German Patent Applications OLS Nos. 2,030,326 and 2,121,780 and Japanese Patent Publications Nos. 4936 68 and 14030 69.. Suitable sensitizers may be selected depending upon the region of wavelengths for which the emulsion is sensitized, as well as the sensitivity and other factors of the photographic material. The emulsion for use in the silver halide photographic material of the present invention may contain other additives such as stabilizers or antifoggants e.g.azaindenes, triazoles, tetrazoles, imidozolium salts, tetrazolium salts and polyhydrogy compounds hardeners e.g. aldehyde, aziridine, isoxazole, vinyl sulfone, acryloyl, carbodiimide, maleimide, methanesulfonate ester and triazine compounds development accelerators e.g. benzyl alcohol and polyoxyethylene compounds image stabilizers e.g.chroman, coumaran, bisphenol and phosphorous acid ester compounds lubricants e.g. wax, glyceride of higher aliphatic acids, and higher alcohol esters of higher aliphatic acids . Surfactants may be used as coating aids1 agents to improve the permeability to processing solutions, defoamers or agents to control various physical properties of the photographic material, and any of the cationic, anionic, nonionic or amphoteric surfactants may be employed. Suitable antistats are diacetyl cellulose, styrene perfluoroalkyl lithium maleate copolymers, and alkali salts of the reaction product of styrene maleic anhydride copolymer and p aminobenzenesulfonic acid. A latex may be added to provide better film properties, and suitable examples are Copolymers of acrylate esters or vinyl esters and other ethylenecontaining monomers.Illustrative gelatin plasticizers include glycerin and glycolic compounds, and suitable thickeners are styrene sodium maleate copolymers and alkylvinylether maleic acid copolymers. The silver halide photographic material of the present invention is formed by coating silver halide photographic emulsions onto bases optionally through subbing layers or intermediate layers, and any known method may be used to apply the silver halide emulsions. Suitable bases include baryta paper, polyethylene coated paper, synthetic polypropylene paper, glassine paper, cellulose acetate, cellulose nitrate, polyvinylacetal, polypropylene, polyesters such as polyethylene terephthalate, and polystyrene. The silver halide photographic material of the present invention may be used in either black and white or color photography. It may be used for general purposes, for printing, as well as for X ray and other radiographic applications, and particularly significant advantages are accomplished when the material is used as a high sensitivity silver bromide photographic material. The silver halide photographic material of the present invention may be subjected to not only ordinary exposure but also to short time or flash exposure, and it may be processed by the conventional method of photographic processing.Two basis steps are development and fixing, which may be effected simultaneously. The present invention is hereunder described in greater detail by reference to illustrative examples to which the scope of the invention is by no means limited. Example A high sensitivity negative emulsion 1 kg of which contained 40 g of silver iodobromide containing 3.5 mol silver iodide and 45 g of gelatin and which had been subjected to sulfur and gold sensitizations was heated at 400C and divided into 19 portions. A and B were added in the amounts listed in Table 1.The resulting coating solutions were applied to cellulose triacetate film bases to give a thickness 4 p and dried.The melting points of the respective samples were measured in an aqueous solution of 0.2 N sodium hydroxide. Then, the samples were exposed to a white light in a Model KS 1 sensitometer product of Konishiroku Photo Industry Co., Ltd. by the method specified in JIS, and processed by a continuous roller transport type automatic processor that effected development, fixing, washing and drying in sequence. The development period was 30 seconds at 350C and the developing solution used had the following formulation.Developing solutionAnhydrous sodium sulfite 70 gHydroquinone, 10 gBoric anhydride 1 gSodium carbonate monohydrate 20 g l Phenyl 1,3 pyrazolidone 0.35 gSodium hydroxide 5 g 5 Methyl benzotriazole 0.05 gPotassium .5bromide 5g Glutaraldehyde bisulfite 15 gGlacital acetic acid 8 g Water to make 1,000 ml The so processed samples were subjected to sensitometry to determine their photographic characteristics which are shown in Table 1 wherein the sensitivity is indicated as relative values with that of control Sample No. 1 being taken as 100. The image quality was evaluated by visually inspecting the deterioration of developed silver grains at a density of 0.8. The criteria were Otgood , d moderate and X very poor .The combination of two of these symbols indicate the state in between those represented by the respective symbols. Table 1 EMI18.1 Sample SEP Compound SEP A SEP Compound SEP B SEP Photographic SEP Characteristics SEP Image tb SEP Identifi SEP Amount SEP Identifi SEP Amount SEP pH SEP of SEP melting SEP After SEP standing SEP After SEP standing SEP Quality tb SEP cation SEP No. SEP mg 100g SEP cation SEP No. SEP mg 100g SEP Emul SEP point SEP 3 SEP days SEP at SEP 25 C SEP 3 SEP days SEP at SEP 50 C tb SEP emulsion SEP emulsion SEP sion SEP and SEP 60 SEP r.h. SEP and SEP 50 C SEP and tb SEP C SEP without SEP heat SEP 60 SEP r.h. tb SEP treatment tb SEP Fog SEP Sensitivity SEP Fog SEP Sensitivity tb 1 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 6.5 SEP 28 SEP 0.03 SEP 100 SEP 0.05 SEP 100 SEP tb 2 SEP A 1 SEP 4,5 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 0.04 SEP 98 SEP 0.16 SEP 90 SEP SEP tb 3 SEP A 2 SEP 4,5 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 0.04 SEP 98 SEP 0.18 SEP 95 SEP SEP tb 4 SEP A 3 SEP 4,5 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 0.03 SEP 98 SEP 0.20 SEP 95 SEP SEP tb 5 SEP A 4 SEP 4.5 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 0.04 SEP 98 SEP 0.24 SEP 95 SEP SEP tb 6 SEP A 5 SEP 0.45 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 0.04 SEP 98 SEP 0.18 SEP 95 SEP SEP tb 7 SEP SEP 4.5 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 0.04 SEP 98 SEP 0.24 SEP 90 SEP SEP tb 8 SEP SEP 45 SEP SEP SEP SEP 33 SEP 0.04 SEP 82 SEP 0.16 SEP 75 SEP SEP tb 9 SEP SEP 450 SEP SEP SEP SEP 38 SEP 0.02 SEP 65 SEP 0.08 SEP 52 SEP tb 10 SEP A 6 SEP 4.5 SEP SEP SEP SEP 28 SEP 0.04 SEP 95 SEP 0.18 SEP 90 SEP SEP tb 11 SEP A 7 SEP 4.5 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 0.04 SEP 98 SEP 0.20 SEP 95 SEP SEP tb 12 SEP SEP SEP 10 SEP 100 SEP SEP SEP 0.02 SEP 100 SEP 0.03 SEP 102 SEP X tb 13 SEP SEP SEP 20 SEP 10 SEP SEP SEP 0.02 SEP 102 SEP 0.04 SEP 105 SEP X tb 14 SEP SEP SEP SEP 100 SEP SEP SEP 0.02 SEP 100 SEP 0.03 SEP 102 SEP X tb 15 SEP SEP SEP 30 SEP 100 SEP SEP SEP 0.02 SEP 100 SEP 0.03 SEP 105 SEP X tb 16 SEP SEP SEP 40 SEP 100 SEP SEP SEP 0.02 SEP 100 SEP 0.03 SEP 105 SEP X tb 17 SEP A 2 SEP 0.45 SEP 20 SEP 100 SEP SEP SEP 0.02 SEP 100 SEP 0.04 SEP 105 SEP SEP tb 18 SEP A 5 SEP 0.45 SEP SEP 100 SEP SEP SEP 0.03 SEP 100 SEP 0.04 SEP 105 SEP SEP tb 19 SEP SEP 4.5 SEP SEP 100 SEP SEP SEP 0.03 SEP 100 SEP 0.05 SEP 100 SEP SEP tb As Table 1 show, the samples according to the present invention had high sensitivities and produced good images with minimum fog. But the samples outside the scope of the present invention were defective with respect to at least one of the three factors, fog, sensitivity and image quality.Otherwise, they had increased melting points. Example 2 An X ray silver iodobromide emulsion in gelatin that contained 2 mol of silver iodide was subjected to the second ripenjnVg and mixed with saponin as a coating aid.The mixture was then divided into 20 portions. Compounds A and compounds B were added in the amounts indicated in Table 2. The resulting coating solutions were applied onto polyethylene terephthalate film bases to give a dry thickness of 5 p and dried. The respective samples were subjected to X ray sensitometry through a medium sensitivity fluorescent intensifying screen product of Toshiba Corp. and an aluminum step wedge at a tube voltage of 60 kVp and a tube current of 200 mA. The samples were then processed as.in Example 1 to evaluate their sensitivity and the degree of fog, and the results are shown in Table 2. At the same time, the me Lting points of the samples were measured as inExample 1 to evaluate the quality of the resulting images.The results are also shown in Table 2 Table 2 EMI20.1 Sample SEP Compound SEP A SEP Compound SEP B SEP Photographic SEP Characteristics SEP Image tb No. SEP After SEP standing SEP After SEP standing SEP Quality tb SEP Identifi SEP Amount SEP Identifi SEP Amount SEP Melting SEP 3 SEP days SEP at SEP 25 C SEP 3 SEP days SEP at SEP 50 C tb SEP cation SEP No. SEP mg SEP gelatin SEP cation SEP No. SEP mg SEP 1 SEP mol SEP Point SEP and SEP 65 SEP r.h. SEP and tb SEP Silver SEP Without SEP heat SEP 60 SEP r.h. tb SEP halide SEP C SEP treatment tb SEP Fog SEP Sensitivity SEP Fog SEP Sensitivity tb 1 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 30 SEP 0.04 SEP 100 SEP 0.06 SEP 110 SEP tb 2 SEP A 6 SEP 0.5 SEP SEP SEP 30 SEP 0.04 SEP 95 SEP 0.18 SEP 100 SEP SEP tb 3 SEP SEP 10 SEP SEP SEP 36 SEP 0.04 SEP 80 SEP 0.14 SEP 60 SEP SEP tb 4 SEP H 1 SEP SEP 1 SEP SEP SEP 36 SEP 0.04 SEP 98 SEP 0.07 SEP 105 SEP tb 5 SEP SEP 5 SEP SEP SEP 50 SEP 0.03 SEP 90 SEP 0.06 SEP 85 SEP SEP tb 6 SEP H 2 SEP 3 SEP SEP SEP 42 SEP 0.04 SEP 95 SEP 0.08 SEP 85 SEP SEP tb 7 SEP SEP SEP 18 SEP 1.0 SEP 27 SEP 0.04 SEP 100 SEP 0.05 SEP 110 SEP SEP tb 8 SEP SEP SEP SEP 10 SEP SEP 0.04 SEP 100 SEP 0.04 SEP 110 SEP SEP tb 9 SEP SEP SEP B 1 SEP 0.005 SEP 30 SEP 0.03 SEP 98 SEP 0.04 SEP 105 SEP tb 10 SEP SEP SEP SEP 0.05 SEP SEP 0.02 SEP 60 SEP 0.03 SEP 65 SEP tb 11 SEP SEP SEP B 2 SEP 0.005 SEP SEP 0.03 SEP 95 SEP 0.04 SEP 90 SEP tb 12 SEP A 6 SEP SEP 18 SEP 1.0 SEP 27 SEP 0.04 SEP 100 SEP 0.05 SEP 110 SEP tb 13 SEP SEP 0.5 SEP B 1 SEP 0.005 SEP 30 SEP 0.03 SEP 95 SEP 0.16 SEP 95 SEP SEP tb 14 SEP SEP SEP B 2 SEP 0.005 SEP 30 SEP 0.03 SEP 90 SEP 0.15 SEP 80 SEP SEP tb 15 SEP SEP 1 SEP 18 SEP 1.0 SEP 27 SEP 0.03 SEP 100 SEP 0.04 SEP 110 SEP tb 16 SEP SEP 5 SEP B 1 SEP 0.005 SEP 36 SEP 0.03 SEP 75 SEP 0.14 SEP 55 SEP tb 17 SEP SEP SEP B 2 SEP 0.005 SEP SEP 0.03 SEP 70 SEP 0.13 SEP 50 SEP tb 18 SEP H 1 SEP 1 SEP 18 SEP 1.0 SEP 34 SEP 0.04 SEP 95 SEP 0.06 SEP 105 SEP tb 19 SEP SEP 5 SEP SEP SEP 50 SEP 0.03 SEP 90 SEP 0.05 SEP 85 SEP SEP tb 20 SEP H 2 SEP 3 SEP SEP SEP 42 SEP 0.04 SEP 95 SEP 0.06 SEP 80 SEP SEP tb Compounds lH l and H 2 were hardeners which respectively had the following formulae EMI21.1 Compounds B l and B 2 were development restrainers which respectively had the following formulae EMI21.2 As Table 2 show, the samples accoridng to the present invention had high sensitivities and produced good images with minimum fog.Furthermore, their melting points were not as high as to cause excessive hardening of the emulsion layer. Example 3 A triacetate film base having an anti halation layer was coated with a first layer or a layer of high sensitivity color photographic silver iodobromide emulsion dry thickness 5 p wherein 1 kg of the negative silver halide contained 10 g of 4 chloro 1 hydroxy 2 n octylnaphthamide as a coupler and which had been sensitized for red light, The first layer was overlaid with a second layer or a layer of 3 aqueous gelatin solution dry thickness 1 Then, a third layer or a layer of. high sensitivity color photographic silver iodobromide emulsion dry thickness 4 p wherein 1 kg of the negative silver halide contained 10 g of l 3 carboxyphenyl 3 4 stearoylaminophenyl 5 pyrazolone as a coupler and which had been sensitized for green light was formed, and on that layer was formed a fourth layer or a layer of yellow colloidal silver in a dry thickness of 2 p. Then, a fifth layer or a layer of high sensitivity silver iodobromide emulsion dry thickness 7 wherein 1 kg of the negative silver halide contained 13 g of 2 dodecyloxybenzoylacetanilide as a coupler and which had been sensitized for blue light was formed, and on that layer was formed a sixth layer or a layer of 4 aqueous gelatin solution in a dry thickness of 1 p. In this way, seven samples of coupler in emulsion type color photographic negative film were prepared. In the second fourth and sixth layers of each sample, 3 mg of formalin was incorporated as a hardener per kg of the gelatin. At the time of the completion of the second ripenig, 4 hydroxy 6 methyl l , 3, 3a ,7 tetrazaindene stabilizer and saponin coating aid were added to the first, third and fifth silver halide emulsion layers. Thereafter, compounds A and B were added to the first, third and fifth layers in the amounts indicated in Table 3. The so prepared samples were left to stand at 250C and 60 r.h. for 30 days. After processing the samples with a color developing solution for the formulation, see below at 240C for 5 minutes, the color desities of the resulting images were measured with a color densitometer.The photographic characteristics determined from the color densities are also shown in Table 3, wherein the fog and sensitivity values indicated in columns R, G and B were determined from those values which were measured through red, green and blue color photographic densitometer filters, respectively, and the sensitivity was indicated in terms of relative values which the red sensitivity of sample No. 1 at 200C and 60 r.h. being taken as 100. The development period was 5 minutes at 240C and the developing solution used had the following formulation.Color developerBenzyl alcohol 3.8 mlAnhydrous sodium sulfite 2.0 g N E thyl N methanesulfonamidoethyl 3 methyl 4 aminoaniline sulfate 5.0 gSodium carbonate 5.0 gSodium bromide 1.0 gWater to make 1,000 ml Table 3 EMI24.1 SEP Compound SEP A SEP Compound SEP B SEP Photographic SEP Characteristics SEP Image tb Sample SEP Identifi SEP SEP Amount. SEP Identifi SEP Amount SEP Melting SEP after SEP standing SEP 30 SEP days SEP at SEP Quali tb No. SEP cation SEP No. SEP mg gelatin SEP cation SEP No. SEP g l SEP mol SEP Point SEP 25 C SEP and SEP 60 SEP r.h. tb SEP Silver SEP C SEP Fog SEP Sensitivity tb SEP halide SEP R SEP G SEP B SEP R SEP G SEP B tb 1 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 52 SEP 0.08 SEP 0.08 SEP 0.08 SEP 100 SEP 110 SEP 95 SEP tb 2 SEP A 4 SEP 0,5 SEP SEP SEP SEP 0.15 SEP 0.14 SEP 0.17 SEP 80 SEP 85 SEP 75 SEP tb 3 SEP SEP SEP 18 SEP 1.5 SEP 50 SEP 0.07 SEP 0.07 SEP 0.07 SEP 100 SEP 110 SEP 95 SEP SEP tb 4 SEP A 4 SEP 0.5 SEP SEP SEP SEP 0.07 SEP 0.08 SEP 0.07 SEP 100 SEP 110 SEP 95 SEP tb 5 SEP SEP SEP 2 SEP SEP SEP 58 SEP 0.07 SEP 0.08 SEP 0.08 SEP 98 SEP 105 SEP 90 SEP tb 6 SEP SEP 5 SEP SEP SEP 75 SEP .10 SEP 0.09 SEP 0.09 SEP 75 SEP 75 SEP 70 SEP tb 7 SEP A 4 SEP 0.5 SEP SEP SEP SEP 0.005 SEP 52 SEP 0.07 SEP 0.06 SEP 0.07 SEP 45 SEP 105 SEP 95 SEP tb denotes a hardener EMI24.2 denotes a Inhibitor EMI24.3 As Table 3 shows, sample No. 4 according to the present invention had a high sensitivity and produced a good image with minimum fog.