# Extractor with fluidified plate for hygroscopic products.

## Abstract
The invention employs a hopper with intermediate cylindrical band for connection between the upper stationary part 2 and the underlying one 3 held by the former by means of suspension pivots 4 . The mobile part is equipped with an electrical vibrator 5 and the driving organs are foreseen centrally grouped and covered with a conical plate 6 fitted with nozzles 7 of insufflation through which air jets get out fluidifying the product at the silo base in order to further its descent through a circular crown opening 11 foreseen between the plate border and the hopper body, towards the discharge mouth.

## Claims
Claims. 1 Extractor with fluidified plate for hygroscopic products, characterized by the fact that a hopper in a truncated cone shape is used having an interme diate cylindrical band to allow the connection between its upper part inte gral with the silo ban and its underlying mobile part. This one is supported to the previous part by means of four suspension pivots. The said mobile part is equipped with an electrical vibrator which facilitated discharging. 2 Extractor with fuidified plate for hygroscopic products, according to the previous claim, characterized by the fact that the mobile part foresees the driving assembly in central positionprotected by a roof shaped conical plate which, with the hopper part, determines a circular crown opening for the product discharge. The dynamism on the product is allowed by the continuous insuffling of air through the nozzles fitted on the plate permitting a fluidification effect apt to overcome the cohesion effect. 3 Extractor with fluidified plate for hygroscopic products, according to the previous claims, characterized by the fact that in a version, at the discharge the hopper in truncated cone shape is foreseen with top stationary part 2 and underlying mobile part 3 connected by means of four suspension pivots 4. The said part is equipped with an electrical vibrator 5 and employs conical plate 6 in upper central position with nozzles 7. 4 Extractor with fluidified plate for hygroscopic products, according to the previous claims, characterized by the fact that for the air circulation, the side ventilator 8 is foreseen which draws from outside and puts through duct 9 supported on the mobile part, through sieve 10, and sends outwards in jets from nozzles 7 of cone 6, facilitating the product discharge through opening 11 which brings into hopper 3. 5 Extractor with fluidified plate for hygroscopic products, according to the previous claims, characterized by the fact that the insufflation air is taken through conveyor 12 and put into pipe 13 which discharges through vertical duct 14 on the silo cover. Air is drawn from outside through a dehumidizing device 15 which, by means of the tank inside temperature control, permits to condition the silo. The dehumidation cycle foresees the air intaking through assembly 15 which employs elements absording lithium salts in solid state, operate with self regenerating effect along with air heated by means of electrical resistances controlled by a humidity static device 16. Subsequently air passes through vater cooling batteries 17 complete with thernostate 18 which insufflates the, air at the controlled temperature and humidity through the nozzles. 6 Extractor with fluidified plate for hygroscopic products, according to the previous claims, characterized by the fact that an autcnaticfilter 19 is fo reseen on the silo consisting of a cylindrical part in carbon steel and containing some filtering hoses 20 in polyester tissue which depurate the air mixture sent by blower 8 before reaching the product. 7 Extractor withfluidified plate for hygroscopic products, according to the previous claims, characterized by the fact that the filtering contrivance in addition foresees a top head with automatic drive in aluminium and fitted with washing valve controlled by a cyclic 21 which altenatevely determines the opening and closing. 8 Extractor with fluidified plate for hygroscopic products, according to the previous claims, charatterized by the fact that a washing electrical ventilator 22 is foreseen for drawing air into the filtering hoses through washing valves 21. The above filter is fitted with a side sucking fan 23 which conveys the remaining air outwards. Through a deviating valve 24, the air drawn by an avutomatic filter is sent through duct 25 to the ventilator.

## Description
Extractor with fluidified plate for hygroscopic products.A troncated cone shaped hopper is foreseen, which consists of a stationary top part holding the underlying mobile one by means of four pivots, to be dri ven by an electrical vibrator to facilitate the product discharge. In the cen tral upper position of the mobile part, a conical part equipped with immission nozzles of air jets is foreseen to get the fluidified product and its discharge outwards with continuous effect through the said vibrating part.The invention permits particular employ for hygroscopic products such as sugar, meal, starch and other powdery products, as for instance kaolin, having a high adherence coefficient. For these products, female screw extractors are employed. Such mèvement devices imply wear of the parts and the necessity of servicing and restoration work. In addition, they are liable to possible blo cking of the movement organ which requires dismantling of the equipment part which consequent necessity of these parts replacement.The invention enables to avoid these inconveniences by using a hopper in a truncated cone shape with intermediate cylindrical band essentially consisting of an upper part integral with the silo base and holding four suspension c pivots for the underlying part fitted with. electrical vibrator apt to allow a shaking action to further the product descent.The mobile part is foreseen with the driving organs grruoped in a central po sition and. protected by a conical roof like plate determining an opening, with the hopper wall, in the shape of a circular crawn for the product discharge. In order to overcome the cohesion effect, previously conditioned air is fore seen, with a continuous employ,getting out in jets from the plate nozzles, thus giving rise to a dynamism performing the product fluidification at the silo base which furthers the discharge.A not limiting version is illustrated by the drawings of Table 1, where fig.1 is the view of the discharge compartment, one half of which is seen in sec tion to show the plate covering the insuffling device. Fig. 2 is the simplified scheme to illustrate the whole assembly.In a version , at the silo discharge, the hopper in a truncated cone shape is foreseen with stationary upper part 2 and the underlying one 3 to be assembled by means of four suspension pivots 4. This part is fitted with electrical vibrator 5, to facilitate the discharge, and it employs extracting conical part 6 in the upper central position. This plate is fitted with insufflation nozzles 7 which fluidify the product and facilitate its sinking.For the air circulation, the side fan 8 is employed which takes air from out side and sends it through duct 9 supported on the mobile part through sieve 10 to get out in jets from nozzles 7 stirring and fluidifying the product contained in cone 6 in this way, its discharge is possible through opening 11 which brings into hopper 3.The insufflation air is taken through conveyor 12 and put into pipe 13 which discharges through vertical duct 14 on the silo cover. Air is drawn from outside through a dehumidizing device 15 which, by means of the tank inside temperature control, permits to condition the silo. The dehumidation cycle foresees the air intaking through assembly 15 which employs elements absorbing lithium salts in solid state,that operate with self regenerating effect along with air heated by means of ele,ctrical resistances controlled by a humidity static device 16. Subsequently air passes through water cooling batteries 17 complete with thermostate 16 which insufflates the air at the controlled temperature and humidity through the nozzles.The necessity of checking the insufflation air depends on the outer room, conditions and allows more or less warm air according to the rett U thermal exchange. This permits to suit the product to the room exigencies with a view to avoiding invonveniences of different kinds, such as incrusta tions due to exceeding humidity of fermentations in consequence of lowered hygroscopio grade.An automatic filter 19 is foreseen on the silo consisting of a cylindrical part in carbon steel and containing some filtering hoses 20 in polyester tissue which depurate the air mixture sent by blower 8 before reaching the pro duct The filtering contrivance in addition foresees a top head with automatic drive in aluminium and fitted with washing valves controlled by a cyclic 21 which alternatively determines the opening and closing. A washing electrical ventilator 22 is foreseen for drawing air into the filtering heses through washing valves 21. The above filter is fitted with a side sucking fan 23 which conveys the remaining air outwards. Through a deviating valve 24, the air dra wa by an automatic filter in sent through duct 25 the the ventilator 8. The execution particulars, the materials, the accessory devices, the assembling means and components for binding, as well as the form of the hopper components may be performes in different ways.