# Apparatus for finding lost articles.

## Abstract
An apparatus for locating small articles comprises a transmitter and a receiving unit. The transmitter is capable of sending a receivable signal. The receiving unit is attachable to a small article and comprises means for receiving the transmitted signal and emitting a perceptible signal in response to the transmitted signal. The receiving unit is sufficiently small not to significantly alter the nature of the article to which it is attached.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. An apparatus for locating small articles comprising a transmitter for broadcasting an electromagnetic receivable first signal and a receiving unit capable of being associated with the article to be located comprising a housing sufficiently small not to significantly alter the nature of the article and means for receiving the first signal from the transmitter and emitting a perceptible second signal in response to the first signal disposed within the housing. 2. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the perceptible signal is an audible signal. 3. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the perceptible signal is a visible signal. 4. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the small article is a key chain or key ring. 5. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the receiving unit comprises means for manually deactivating the perceptible signal. 6. An apparatus for locating small articles comprising a transmitter for transmitting a modulated radio frequency signal and a receiving unit associated with the article to be located comprising a housing sufficiently small not to significantly alter the nature of the article and means for receiving and demodulating the signal from the transmitter and emitting a perceptible signal in response to the signal from the transmitter disposed within the housing. 7. An apparatus as claimed in claim 6 wherein the perceptible signal is an audible signal. 8. An apparatus as claimed in claim 6 wherein the perceptible signal is a visible signal. 9. An apparatus as claimed in claim 6 wherein the small article is a key chain or key ring. 10. An apparatus as claimed in claim 6 wherein the receiving unit comprises means for manually deactivating the perceptible signal. 11. An apparatus for locating key chains or key rings comprising a transmitter for selectively generating a modulated radio frequency signal to be broadcast within a limited area and a radio receiving unit attached to the key ring or key chain comprising a housing sufficiently small to not significantly increase the size and weight of the key ring or key chain and means for receiving and demodulating the signal from the transmitter and activating an audible signal generator in response to the signal from the transmitter disposed within the housing. 12. An apparatus as claimed in claim 11 wherein the receiving unit comprises means for manually deactivating the perceptible signal. 13. An apparatus for locating small articles comprising a transmitter for selectively generating a select number of distinct modulated radio frequency signals to be broadcast within a limited area a select number of radio receiving units wherein each receiving unit is capable of being associated with an article comprising a housing sufficiently small to not significantly alter the nature of the article and each receiving means comprises means for receiving and demodulating one signal from the transmitter and activating an audible signal generator in response to the signal from the transmitter disposed within the housing. 14. An apparatus as claimed in claim 13 wherein each receiving unit comprises means for manually deactivating the perceptible signal.

## Description
APPARATUS FOR FINDING LOST ARTICLESBackground of the Invention Small articles such as key chains, key rings, wallets and the like are frequently lost or misplaced, especially within a home or office. To locate a lost article, the owner or user of the article must conduct a search for the article. Occasionally, locating the article requires a rather extensive and time consuming search. Furthermore, such a search may terminate unsuccessively. Searching for small articles such as keys and wallets creates frustration and anxiety in the searcher.Undesirable delay caused by a time consuming search can create various problems, especially if the delay results in tardiness or failure to meet a particular deadline. One solution to the problem is to insure that the article is never lost or misplaced. However, since misplacing small articles occurs accidentally or due to the forgetfulness of an individual, this is not a satisfactory solution. A need exists, therefore, for a method to locate an easily or frequently misplaced article after it has been lost or misplaced. Summary of the Invention According to the present invention, there is provided an apparatus for locating small articles such as key rings, key chains, wallets, etc. that have been lost or misplaced, especially within a home, office or the like. The apparatus comprises a transmitter and at least one receiving unit. The transmitter is capable of broadcasting an electromagnetic signal receivable by the receiving unit. The transmitter signal is sufficiently strong to reach a receiving unit in the same room as the transmitter and preferably anywhere within a home or office. The receiving unit comprises means for receiving the transmitted signal and emitting a perceptible signal in response to the transmitted signal. The perceptible signal is either audible or visible. Audible signals are preferred. The receiving unit further comprises a housing that is attachable to the article or capable of being incorporated in the article. The housing, and therefore the receiving unit, is sufficiently small that when attached to the article, it does not significantly alter the nature of the article, i.e., it does not alter the characteristics of the article to such an extent that attachment of the receiving unit to the article is deemed undesirable or detrimental by the user of the article. To locate a small article such as a key chain that has been misplaced, the transmitter is activated. In response to the transmitted signal, the receiving unit attached to the small article emits a perceptible signal. The user of the article may then locate the article by locating the source of the perceptible signal. Brief Description of the Drawings These and other features and advantages of the present invention will be better understood by reference to the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings wherein FIG. 1 is a block diagram of a transmitter according to a preferred embodiment of the present invention and FIG. 2 is a block diagram of a receiving unit according to a preferred embodiment of the present invention. Detailed Description In accordance with the principles of the present invention, there is provided an apparatus for locating small articles capable of being easily misplaced. The invention is particularly applicable to articles such as key chains and key rings. Additional articles that are applicable include wallets, purses, hand tools, hand calculators and small containers such as medicine bottles and the like. The apparatus comprises a transmitter and a receiving unit capable of being associated with the article. The transmitter may be stationary or portable and may be powered by an electrical outlet or batteries.The transmitter may be of any conventional design capable of sending an electromagnetic receivable first signal. Preferably, the transmitter emits a radio signal. The receiving unit comprises a housing that is attachable to the article or capable of being incorporated in the article. The receiving unit comprises means, within the housing, for receiving the first signal from the transmitter and then emitting a perceptible second signal, thus alerting a searcher to the location of the article. The receiving unit is powered by batteries incorporated within the housing. As used herein, perceptible signal refers to a signal capable of being perceived or detected by a person without the use of an auxiliary apparatus or device. Typically the detectable signal will be audible or visible. It is presently preferred that the signal be audible. The receiving unit comprises a housing that is rugged, compact, and lightweight. The size and shape of the receiving unit may vary according to the application. The size, however, is sufficiently small to be incorporated in or on the article or attached thereto without significantly altering the nature of the article. By significantly altering the nature of the article what is meant is that the characteristics of the article, including size, shape, use, function, weight, convenience and comfort are altered to such an extent that attachment of the receiving unit to the article is deemed undesirable or detrimental by the user of the article. For example, a receiving unit that is attached to a key ring including keys must be sufficiently small and lightweight so that the overall volume and weight of the key ring is not increased by the receiving unit to such an extent to inconvenience the user. This may occur if the key chain becomes too bulky or heavy to be carried comfortably, for example, in the pocket of a pair of pants or in a small purse. The receiving unit further comprises means for being attached to said article. For example, a receiving unit capable of attachment to a key ring or key chain may have a hole through the housing through which the key ring or key chain may pass. A presently preferred embodiment of a transmitter applicable to the present invention is shown in FIG. 1.The transmitter is preferably portable and powered by small, lightweight batteries. However, stationary transmitters powered by AC source are also applicable.The transmitter is of conventional design for broadcasting a modulated radio signal within a limited area. The transmitter comprises a switch 1 for activating the transmitter and generating the signal to be broadcast.Conventional switches,such as push button switches are suitable. A variable activation timing mechanism 2 is incorporated so that the signal can be transmitted for a selected period of time, typically from about 1 to about 5 minutes. The radio frequency carrier wave is generated in the transmiter section 3 by a conventional single chip radio frequency device. It is preferred that the transmitter operate in the amateur radio frequencies authorized by the Federal Communications Commission FCC , such as from 28.00 MHz to 29.70 MHz or from 50.00 tEz to 54.00 MHz. An encoder 4 comprises a digital modulator for pulse duration modulation of a radio frequency carrier wave. The carrier wave is modulated to prevent false triggering of the receiving unit. Analog type modulators for tone modulation are also suitable. The transmitter also comprises a power amplifier 5 to assure adequate range is attained. The preferred range enables a stationary transmitter at a select location in a house, office, apartment, etc. to transmit a signal capable of being received by the receiving unit anywhere in the enclosure defining the house, etc. A single stage class C RF amplifier is presently preferred.The transmitter signal is radiated into the space by neans of a conventional antenna 6. A presently preferred embodiment of a receiving unit applicable to the present invention comprises a receiving unit capable of receiving the transmitter signal. Referring now to FIG. 2, an antenna 7 incorporated into the housing of the receiving unit receives the signal which is then split into two components by a passive tuned circuit 8, i.e., a circuit responsive to the transmitted signal frequency. One component of the signal passes to a detector switch section 9. The remaining signal component passes to a receiving unit section 11. The detector switch section 9 consists of a silicon diode having a very slight DC forward bias applied and an FET switching device. This means that the amount of current drawn by the the receiving unit in the passive state is only a few microamps. When the signal is supplied by the tuned circuit 8, the detected output from the diode is used to operate an FET switch, thereby supplying power from a power source 10 to the remainder of the receiving unit. Power is supplied by small, lightweight calculator or watch batteries. The receiving unit section 11 is of conventional design and mixes the carrier frequency down to an intermediate frequency. The modulated frequency is then amplified by an intermediate frequency amplifier tuned to the intermediate frequency and then demodulates the encoded signal. The demodulated signal passes to a decoder 12 which recovers the signal that the transmitter encoded. The decoder does not emit an output signal until the proper encoded signal is received. Once the proper encoded signal is received, the decoder emits a signal which is amplified by an amplifier 13. The amplified signal from the gain block then activates a piezoelectric sounding device 14 which emits an audible signal. In the preferred embodiment, the receiving unit also comprises means for manually deactivating the signal from the receiving unit, e.g., on off switch 15, once the receiving unit is located to increase the lifetime of the batteries. A particularly preferred embodiment according to principles of the present invention for use in a house, office or the like comprises a transmitter capable of sending a select number of signals. Each transmitter signal is,keyed to a separate receiving unit, i.e., each receiving unit is tuned to receive a specific signal transmitted by the transmitter. In this manner, a select number of articles are locatable with the use of a single transmitter. The strength of each transmitter signal is at least sufficient to activate the receiving unit keyed to that radio signal if located in the same room as the transmitter.Preferably, the strength of the signal is sufficient to activate the corresponding receiving unit anywhere in the house or office. Once activated, the receiving unit emits a perceptible signal for up to a select period of time as determined by the duration of the transmitter signal.If the article to which the receiving unit is attached or incorporated is located within this time period, the signal may be turned off by an on off button or switch on the receiving unit. If the article is not located within the time period, the signal automatically terminates to thereby extend the life of the batteries. The preceding description has been presented with reference to presently preferred embodiments of the invention. Workers skilled in the art and technology to which this invention pertains will appreciate that the alterations and changes in the described apparatus and structure can be practiced without meaningfully departing from the principles, spirit and scope of this invention.Accordingly, the foregoing description should not be read as pertaining only to the precise structures and procedures described, but rather should be read consistent with and as support for the following claims which are to have their fullest fair scope.