# Process for making N 2 aminoethyl amides from oxazolines and amines.

## Abstract
A process for preparing certain N 2 substituted amino ethyl amides by reacting a substituted or unsubstituted oxazoline with a secondary amine, at a temperature of 50 250 C and in the presence of a Lewis acid or protonic acid catalyst.

## Claims
1. A process for preparing a N 2 substituted aminoethyl amide of the formula EMI20.1 characterized by reacting one or more compounds of the the formula EMI20.2 with an amine of the formula EMI21.1 and wherein A is nitrogen or a quaternary nitrogen of the formula EMI21.2 wherein B isEMI21.3 when A is nitrogen and B isEMI21.4 when A is IV wherein XG is a counterion and whereinR1 R7 are each hydrogen, an aliphatic or cycloaliphatic or aromatic radical, or an inertly substituted aliphatic, cycloaliphatic or aromatic radical and wherein R8 and Rg are each hydrogen, an aliphatic or cycloaliphatic or inertly substituted aliphatic or cycloaliphatic radical or R8 and or Rg are RloNH2 wherein R10 is an aliphatic or cycloaliphatic or an inertly substituted aliphatic or cycloaliphatic chain containing from 4 to 25 carbon atoms which separates the 2 nitrogen atoms by at least 4 carbon atoms orR8, Rg and the mediate nitrogen atom form an inertly substituted or unsubstituted aliphatic heterocyclic ring containing from 4 to 7 members and wherein b is zero or 1. 2. The process of Claim 1 and further characterized in that the process is catalyzed by a catalytic amount of a Lewis acid or a protonic acid, said protonic acid having a non nucleophilic counterion. 3. The process of Claim 1 and further characterized in that the reaction is carried out at a temperature of from 500C to 2500C. 4. The process of Claim 1 and further characterized by a hydrolyzing I to form an amine and a carboxylic acid and b recovering said amine. 5. The process of Claim 1 and further characterized in that Rg is hydrogen and including the additional steps of a heating to dehydrate I and form an imidazoline of the structureEMI23.1 b recovering said imidazoline.

## Description
PROCESS FOR MAKING N 2 AMINOETL AMIDES FROM OXAZOLINES AND AMINES This invention relates to a process for makingN 2 aminoethyl amides or diamines from a 2 oxazoline or 2 oxazine, or a 2 oxazolinium or oxazinium and an gamine. The formation of N 2 substituted ethyl amides from oxazolines and hydrochloric acid is known, as shown by the equation EMI1.1 Other substituents such asEMI1.2 can be substituted for the Cl . In Angew. Chemische International Edition V,No. 10, pp. 875 888 1966 , Seeliger et al. describes the reaction of oxazolines and anilines wherein EMI2.1 is substituted for HCl in the above reaction. In Chemical Abstracts, 38 12805f, Kormendy et al. disclose the reaction of EMI2.2 to yieldEMI2.3 In Chemical Reviews, LXXI, No. 5 1971 , pp.483 505 at page 486, Frump states that when N 2 bromoethyl benzamide and diethylamine are boiled together in benzene, 2 phenyl 2 oxazoline is formed. Rosnati et ai. in Tetrahedron, IX, pp. 175 82 1960 reacted ammonia and dimethylamine with a substituted 2 oxazoline to form benzamides.EMI3.1 U.S. Patent 4,014,880, Dowd et al., March 29, 1977, discloses the reaction of an oxazoline with ethylene diamine to form 2 ethyl 2 imidazoline and ethanolamine. U.S. Patent 4,086,274, Kaiser et al., April 25, 1978, discloses a process for preparing N 2 mercaptoethyl alkanamide by reaction of a 2 oxazoline and hydrogen sulfide. U.S. Patent 4,086,273, Berazosky et al., April 25, 1978, discloses a process for preparing ss aminoethyl sulfides from aliphatic mercaptans and 2 oxazoline. The present invention is a process for preparing a N 2 substituted aminoethyl amide of the formula EMI4.1 characterized by reacting one or more compounds of the formula EMI4.2 with an amine of the formula EMI4.3 wherein A is nitrogen or a quaternary nitrogen of the formula EMI5.1 wherein B isEMI5.2 when A is nitrogen and B isEMI5.3 when A is IV wherein Xe is a counterion and wherein R1 R7 are each hydrogen, an aliphatic or cycloaliphatic or aromatic radical, or an inertly substituted aliphatic, cycloaliphatic or aromatic radical and wherein R8 and Rg are each hydrogen, an aliphatic or cycloaliphatic or inertly substituted aliphatic or cycloaliphatic radical or R8 and or Rg are 10 2 wherein R10 is an aliphatic or cycloaliphatic or an inertly substituted aliphatic or cycloaliphatic chain containing from 4 to 25 carbon atoms which separates the 2 nitrogen atoms by at least 4 carbon atoms orR8, Rg and the mediate nitrogen atom form an inertly substituted or unsubstituted aliphatic heterocyclic ring containing from 4 to 7 members and wherein b is zero or 1. In a preferred embodiment, the process is catalyzed by a catalytic amount of a catalyst sufficient to catalyze the reaction said catalyst being a Lewis acid or a protonic acid with said protonic acid having a non nucleophilic counterion. The oxazolines and oxazines used in the process of the invention have the structure EMI6.1 wherein b is zero for the oxazolines and one for the oxazines. Oxazolines are preferred. The 2 oxazolines and 2 oxazines of the process of the invention are generally known compounds. Methods for their synthesis are discussed in Frump and Seeliger et al., supra. Specific methods for making the oxazolines are disclosed in U.S. Patent 4,203,900, Kaiser, May 20, 1980. R1 is hydrogen or an aliphatic or aromatic radical or an inertly substituted aliphatic or aromatic radical having generally up to 25 carbon atoms. R1 can be a link in a polymer backbone. For example in the structure EMI7.1 which can be a homopolymer or heteropolymers as described in U.S. Patent 3,505,297, Sheetz et al., April 7, 1970.Comonomers are limited to those with functionality that does not react with the amine, e.g., styrene, vinylpyridine, ethylene, etc. R1 may also represent a link to a second oxazoline ring to form a bis oxazoline as exemplified by the structure EMI7.2 which is disclosed in U.S. Patents 2,569,428, Rowland,September 25, 1951, and 3,419,520, Campbell et al., December 31, 1968. A key aspect is that R1 is inert when it is exposed to other reactants under the reaction conditions.By inert it is meant that R1 will not react with amines, will not sterically hinder the ring opening reaction, and will not react at a rate faster nor at a rate significantly close to that of the amines with other substituents in its own or other similar molecules. For example, R1 can be hydrogen, methyl, ethyl, undecyl, stearyl, phenyl, benzyl, hydroxyethyl, or p nitrophenyl. Inert substituents include, for example, the radicals capable of being R1, ethers, thioethers, amides, hydroxy and tertiary amines. R1 is preferably a straight chain aliphatic radical of 1 12 carbon atoms. R1 is most preferably ethyl. R2 R3 and R5 R6 which may be the same or different, have the same definition as R1 except that the most preferred embodiment is hydrogen. R4, of course, does not exist in the oxazoline structure. Where A isEMI8.1 the starting compounds are oxazoliniums b is zero or oxaziniums b is one . R1 R6 have the same definition and preferred embodiments as the oxazolines and oxazines. The primary difference between the oxazoline oxazine structures and the oxazolinium oxazinium structures is that the latter have a quaternized nitrogen with the accompanying radical R7 and the counterion 8Upon reaction, the counterion reacts with a hydrogen made available by the reaction to form HX. R7 has the same definition as R2 with methyl being most preferred. The oxazoliniums and oxaziniums of this invention are prepared by adding an alkylating agent to the oxazoline or oxazine. This reaction and these salts are discussed in Frump, Supra at page 497.Representative alkylating agents are methyl tosylate, benzyl chloride, and methyl iodide. The counterion we is one which will not react with the oxazolines or oxazines under the reaction conditions used. The amines used in the process of the inven tion have the structure EMI9.1 R8 and R9, which can be the same or different are hydrogen, an aliphatic or cycloaliphatic or an inertly substituted aliphatic or cycloaliphatic radical RloNH2 wherein Rlo is an aliphatic or cycloaliphatic chain or inertly substituted aliphatic or cycloaliphatic chain of from 4 to 25 carbon atoms which separate the two nitrogen atoms by at least 4 carbon atoms or R8, Rg and the mediate nitrogen atom together form an aliphatic or an inertly substituted aliphatic heterocyclic ring containing four to seven members and preferably five or six members. Representative examples of R8 and Rg are methyl, ethyl, n propyl, n butyl, iso propyl, 2 methyl butyl, 2 phenyl propyl and cyclohexyl. Methyl and ethyl are preferred. Representative examples of a ring formed by R8, Rg and the mediate nitrogen atom are N pyrrolidinyl, 2 methyl N pyrrolidinyl, N piperidinyl, N piperazinyl andN morpholinyl. RloNH2 can be, for example, 4 amino n butyl, 5 amino, or 4 methyl n pentyl. The substituents on R8, Rg, the rings formed by R8 and Rg and on R10 may be inertly substituted. By inert it is meant that the substituent group is substantially less nucleophilic than the nitrogen mediate R8 and Rg of III. That is, the substituent reacts with oxazolines not at all or at most at a substantially slower rate than the above cited nitrogen. Examples of inert substituents include hydroxyl, ethers, aliphatic or aromatic hydrocarbon radicals, esters, tertiary amines, amides and the groups which can be R8 or Rg. R8 and or Rg can also be a polymeric backbone.Examples include the polyamines such as triethylenetetraamine. In a preferred process of the invention, the reaction is catalyzed by a catalytic amount of a Lewis acid or a protonic acid wherein the protonic acid has a non nucleophilic counterion. By a catalytic amount is meant an amount substantially less than molar equivalency.A catalytic amount is generally less than 5 mole percent based on the oxazoline. Preferably, the catalyst is present at from about 0.01 mole percent to about 2 mole percent based on the oxazoline. Lewis acids are well known to those skilled in the art and are generally defined as a substance that can take up an electron pair to form a covalent bond.Representative examples include BF3, AlCl3, SnCl4, ZnC12, FeCl2, H2WO3, Fe2SO4, Zn O2CCH3 2, CdCl2, CoCl2, and I 2 Protonic acids with non nucleophilic counterions or anions are also a known class of compounds. Protonic acids contain hydrogen. Representative examples include p toluenesulfonic acid, sulfuric acid and phosphoric acid. The preferred catalysts are Lewis acids and the most preferred is zinc acetate. The amino amides formed have the structure EMI11.1 wherein Rl Rlo have the definitions cited above and B isEMI11.2 when A is nitrogen and B isEMI11.3 when A is as in formula IV. When oxazolines are reacted,B is EMI12.1 b is zero, and R4 and R7 will not be part of the product. A preferred reaction is that of 2 ethyl 2 oxazoline with either diethyl or dimethylamine. The product formed is N 2 diethylaminoethyl propionamide or N 2 dimethylaminoethyl propionamide, respectively. The process of the invention may be used to form polymers. For example, the combination of EMI12.2 NH2 CH2 4 NH2 yields alternating monomer units of the structures EMI12.3 The process of the invention may also be used as a cross linking reaction. For example, with polymers with pendant oxazolines of the structure EMI13.1 addition of a di amine of the invention such asEMI13.2 yields EMI13.3 Conversely, bis oxazolines will cross link polymers with pendant amine groups. The process of the invention is carried out at a temperature high enough to permit reaction. The reactants are normally in the liquid state. Preferably, the reaction is carried out at a minimum temperature of about 500C and more preferably, at a minimum of about 1000C. The maximum temperature feasible is that at which the reactants thermally decompose or form significant quantities of by products. Normally the maximum desirable temperature is no more than about 2500C. Preferably, the temperature is at or below about 2250C. Most preferably, the reaction is carried out at a temperature from about 1000C to about 2250C. The process of the reaction is normally and preferably carried out at autogenous pressure. That is, at atmospheric pressure or, if it is higher, the vapor pressure of the combined reactants at the reaction temperature. However, lower or higher pressures are feasible. The reaction may be carried out in a solvent inert to the reactants but is preferably done neat. Suitable solvents include toluene, ethers and p dichlorobenzene. The reactants are generally added in equimolar amounts, although an excess, for example, of a cheaper reactant can be used. Preferably, the reactants will have an oxazoline amine ratio of from about 0.9 to about 1.1. Further reactions of the products of the process of the invention are also of interest. These reactions when combined with the inventive process are also considered inventive and within the scope of the invention. The N 2 aminoethyl amides can undergo hydrolysis to diamines and carboxylic acids. For example EMI15.1 In the case of the reaction of 2 ethyl 2 oxazoline with dimethylamine, the hydrolysis of the amide yields propanoic acid and N,N dimethylethylenediamine. Fifteen percent aqueous caustic NaOH or KOH is the preferred hydrolysis medium. The amide products of the inventive process also undergo transamidation. That is, the amide is contacted with, for example, a high boiling amine which changes places with the amine functionality of the amide.For example EMI15.2 In a preferred embodiment the reaction is EMI16.1 The N 2 hydroxyethyl propionamide by product may then be reacted to form more 2 ethyl 2 oxazoline. When R8 H and B EMI16.2 the amino amide formed may also undergo a cyclization to form an imidazoline. For example EMI16.3 The imidazolines may be hydrolyzed to again form the N 2 aminoethyl amide. The compounds formed by the process of the invention are generally known and have many uses. N 2 dialkylaminoethyl alkylamides are taught to retard the ripening of fruit in U.S. Patent 4,148,926. The N,N dialkylethylenediamines are known to be useful as stabilizers for polystyrene USP 2,873,264 , in leather dyeing CA 66 76949z , dye acceptors for acrylic and vinyl copolymers CA 51 15176b , curing agents for polyepoxides USP 4,201,854 , and as intermediates for many other compounds such as procaineamide.Example 1 A 90 ml stainless steel reactor is charged with 28.18 gm 0.285 mole of 2 ethyl 2 oxazoline, 20.7 gm 0.284 mole of diethylamine and 0.54 gm 0.003 mole of zinc acetate. The reactor is purged with nitrogen, sealed and heated to 225 C. After 19 hours at that temperature and at autogenous pressure, the reactor is cooled to room temperature and the contents of the reactor analyzed. 5.56 Weight percent diethylamine, 1.03 weight percent ethyloxazoline and 81.4 weight percent N 2 diethylaminoethyl propionamide are found.Example 2 Phenyl 2 oxazoline 37 mmoles , diethylamine 37 mmoles and zinc acetate 0.6 mmole are charged to a 45 ml reactor and heated to 1700C 1750C for 20 hours at autogenous pressure. Analysis shows 11.9 weight percent unreacted amine, 7.3 weight percent unreacted phenyloxazoline and 57.5 weight percent N 2 diethylamino ethyl benzamide. Example 3 Undecyloxazoline 53 mmoles , diethylamine 104 mmoles and 0.9 mmole of zinc acetate are reacted under conditions similar to Example 2 to yield 87 percent of theoretical N 2 diethylaminoethyl undecylamide.Examples 4 12 Different catalysts are compared at approximately one mole percent concentrations with reactants and conditions similar to Example 1. Table A gives results as a weight percent of theoretical yield based on the oxazoline. TABLE AExample Catalyst Yield 4 No Catalyst 7.8 5 H2WO3 62.5 6 Fe2SO4nH2O 79.4 7 Zn CH3COO 2 2.5H2O 82.5 8 Zn CH3COO 2 84.4 9 CdCl2 2H2O 80.2 10 BF3 diethylether 88.5 11 CoCl2 86.0 12 p toluene sulfonic acid 86.0Example 13 5.2 Gm 23 mmoles of dibutylamine and 2.5 gm 25 mmoles of ethyloxazoline are reacted in a stainless steel tube with 52 mg 0.3 mmole of zinc acetate at 2050C and autogenous pressure for 24 hours. Yield determined by analysis of the crude product is 85 percentN 2 dibutylaminoethyl propionamide.Example 14 Under the same conditions as Example 13, 2.5 gm 25 mmoles of 2 ethyl 2 oxazoline, 1.84 gm 25 mmoles of t butylamine and 49.4 mg 0.27 mmole of zinc acetate are reacted to yield 64 percent N 2 t butylaminaethyl pro pionamide. Example 15 Under the same conditions as Example 13, 2.5 gm 25 mmoles of 2 ethyl 2 oxazoline, 2.2 gm 25 mmoles of morpholine and 0.59 mg of zinc acetate are reacted to yield 83 percent N 2 morpholinylethyl propionamide. Example 16 28.9 Gm of 2 ethyl 2 oxa zoline, 17.4 gm of monoethanolamine and 0.71 gm of zinc acetate are charged to a 90 ml stainless steel reactor. The mixture is heated at autogenous pressure at 2000C for 20 hours. Analysis shows three major components N N 2 hydroxyethyl 2 aminoethyl propionamide 1 2 hydroxyethyl 2 ethylimid azoline and N aminoethyl N hydroxyethyl propionamide.Hydrolysis of this mixture yields a mixture of N 2 hydroxyethyl ethylenediamine, propionic acid and a small amount of unreacted monoethanolamine.