# Solar energy collector.

## Abstract
A solar collector comprising a plurality of direction adjustable elongated parabolic reflectors 16,18 side by side. Along the focus of the reflectors tubes 8 for a heat collect ing medium extend, which are connected to heat exchangers or the like. In order to enhance the versatility and efficiency of the solar collector each reflector consists of reflector wall por tions 16,18 movabiy connected to each other and operable from an open parabolic reflector condition to a non reflector condition, in which later they entirely enclose the tubes 8 .

## Claims
Clair,7s. 1. Solar collector including a plurality of elongated thin walled reflectors 16,18 arranged side by side direction adjustable and designed to reflect incident radiation towards a respective longitudinal focus along which conveying means 8 for a liquid heat transferring medium extend, said conveying means being connected to a heat collecting device, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the walls 16,18 of the reflectors are foldable about the respective conveying means 8 . 2. Solar collector according to claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the walls of each reflector consist of two wall portions 16,18 , which are pivotally interconnected along elongated pivot means 20 for movement between an unfolded reflector condition and a folded condition, in which they define an essentially winglike shape, within which said conveying means 8 are enclosed. 3. Solar collector according to claim 2, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that said wall portions 16,18 of each reflector are interconnected by connecting means 22 28 32 , which upon force action on one wall portion transfer this force action to the other wall portion so that said wall portions perform a simultaneous and similar pivoting movement about said pivot means 20 due to said force action. 4. Solar collector according to claim 3, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that said connecting means comprise teeth 31 carried by the respective wall portions and respectively engaging each other along said pivot means 20 . 5. Solar collector according to any of the preceding claims, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that said convoying means 8 coincide with a turning axis around which the direction setting of the reflector is adjusted. 6. Solar collector according to claim 5 and any of claims 2 4, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that a body portion 22 of the pivot means is carried at one end of pins 24 , which at their other ends are pivotally connected to said conveying means 8 . 7. Solar collector according to any of claims 2 6, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the same comprises part of or consists of a venetian blind arrangement having slats which are formed by said reflectors, the wall portions 16,18 of which are foldable to said reflector condition in a light shutting condition of the venetian blind, and to said folded condition in a light transmitting condition of said venetian blind. 8. Solar collector according to claim 7, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that said venetian blind is located within a window 2,4,6 , in which parallel series connected tubes 8 extend between opposite sides of the window sash, a common outlet 14 and a common inlet 12 for the series connected tubes being located in the pivot axis of the window for connection via a rotatable coupling to connecting tubes opening in a corresponding window frame, said parallel tubes 8 each forming the conveying means of its respective reflector 16,18 . 9. Solar collector according to any of the preceding claims, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that at least part of the outwardly turned side of the reflectors in the folded condition are radiation absorbing.

## Description
A solar energy collector. The present invention relates to a solar collector including a plurality of elongated thin walled reflectors arranged side by side direction adjustable and designed to reflect incident radiation towards a respective longitudinal focus along which conveying means for a liquid heat transferring medium extend, said conveying means being connected to a heat collecting device. Through e.g. U.S. patent specifications 3 847 136, 4 000 734, and 4 079 725 and German Offenlegungsschrift 25 33 530 solar collectors are known, which comprise a plurality of elongated parabolic reflectors arranged direction adjustable side by side. Along the focus of the reflectors a tube for liquid heat transferring medium extends, against which the sun radiation is thus reflected.The tubes are connected in series to some form of collecting arrangement, e.g. a heat exchanger for heating water. Through U.S. patent specification 3 048 375 a venetian blind like heat control arrangement for windows is known. Each venetian blind slat contains tubes for a liquid heat transferring medium, said tubes at the same time forming pivot axis for the venetian blind slat. The tubes are connected in series to a heat collecting or heat emitting arrangement so that the temperature of the window surface can be controlled. A further venetian blind type of solar energy collector is known through U.S. patent specification 4 002 159 which functions with a heat absorptive surface of the blind. A solar energy collector with foldable reflectors is furthermore known through U.S. patent specification 3 247 840. One object of the present invention is to provide a solar collector of the kind stated initially, the effective time of operation and or field of application of which is not limited to times during which direct sun radiation is incident. A particular object of the invention is to provide a solar collector of the venetian blind type or the like, which combines the venetian blind function with a high efficiency of the solar collecting function. The above and similar objects have been attained in that the walls of the reflectors are foldable about the respective conveying means. Hereby it is i.a. possible to use the reflectors for energy collecting purpose both in cases of direct and indirect incident radiation, which will be apparent from the following description. The invention will now be described more closely below while referring to one embodiment illustrated on the attached drawings. On the drawings Figures 1 3 in front view, sectional view in the direction of arrows II II and vertical section, respectively, illustrate a window design including a venetian blind formed as a solar collector, and Figure 4 illustrates an end view of one of the solar energy collecting venetian blind slats. The window illustrated in Figures 1 3 has a window sash 2, in which a double glass pane 4 is inserted on the side that shall face a room, and a single glass 6 is inserted on the outside. Between the glasses 4, on the one hand, and the glass 6, on the other hand, there is a space, in which a venetian blind designed as a solar energy collector, to be described more closely below, is arranged. Between the opposite upright sides of the window sash a number of parallel tubes 8 extend. The tubes 8 are series connected via connecting tubes 10 extending in said upright sash sides. The tube system 8, 10 has a common inlet 12 and a common outlet 14. The inlet 12 and the outlet 14 are located in the pivot axis of the window and are intended to be connected via a rotatable coupling to connecting tubes opening in a corresponding window frame.The rotatable coupling and the window frame can be of a kind well known per se to an expert, and need therefore not be shown or described more closely here. The tube system 8 14 is intended to convey a liquid heat transferring medium and is connected to a heat collecting arrangement, which can be e.g. a heat exchanger for heating water. The tubes 8 each pivotally carry a slat reflector unit, the design of which appears from Fig. 4. More particularly this unit comprises two reflector wall portions 16 and 18. The wall portions 16 and 18 are pivotally interconnected along an elongated pivot means generally denoted 20, for movement between an unfolded condition, illustrated by full lines, and a folded condition illustrated by broken lines. In the unfolded condition the reflector portions 16 and 18 form a parabolic reflector, the inside of which is treated to obtain favourable reflecting properties. In the folded position the wall portions 16 and 18 define a shape essentially winglike in cross section, which encloses the tube 8, carrying the unit 16, 18. A body portion 22, U shaped in cross section, of the pivot means 20 is carried at one end of a number of pins 24 distributed along the tube 8. At their other ends the pins 24 are pivotally journalled on the tube 8 by means of an annular portion 26. The length of the pints 24 is such that the tube 8 is located in focus of the open parabolic reflector. The wall portions 16 and 18 at their mutually meeting longitudinal edges are interconnected by means of hinges. The hinges comprise ribs 28 and 30, respectively, having mutually engaging teeth 31. The U shaped body portion 22 on the inside of both legs of the U has protrusions 32 partly circular in cross section.The protrusions 32 engage correspondingly shaped longitudinal recesses in the backside of the ribs 28, 30 so that a kind of cylinder pivot is formed between the protrusions 32 and the corresponding rib 28 and 30, respectively. By action of said cylinder pivots and the teeth engagement between the hinge ribs 28 and 30 a simultaneous and similar movement of the wall portions 16 and 18 can be attained in response to a force acting on either wall portion in either direction. This is used in a way to be described for the opening and closing of the wall portions 16 and 18. More specifically a rod, only indicated in Fig. 3 at 34, extends along one side of the window, and is movably guided in its length direction as is indicated by arrows 35. The rod 34 at 36 slidably engages with the adjacent end edge of the wall portion 16 of all reflector units.Said engagement 36 is slidable along said end edge of the wall portion 16, e.g. by it being formed by means of two pins extending perpendicularly inwardly from the rod and being slidable along the outside and inside, respectively, of the wall portion 16. By shifting of the rod 34 and by virtue of the slidable engagement with the wall portions 16, a turning torque, on the one hand, can be applied to the reflector units about the corresponding tube 8 via the pins 24, and a pivoting torque, on the other hand, can be exerted on the wall portion 16 about the pivot 20. By the teeth engagement in the hinges 28, 30, 32 the last mentioned torque results in simultaneous and similar movement of the wall portions 16 and 18. By suitable design of the included elements and their mutual cooperation, the movements of the reflector units caused by operating the rod 34 can be controlled in a desired way. This control can e.g. be such that the reflector units in their entirety open reflector condition can be turned about the tube 8 between a highest direction angle setting, corresponding to highest solstice, and a lowest direction angle setting, corresponding to the lowest solstice. The direction angle is designated a in Fig. 3.The operating rod 34 can then be motor controlled by e.g.a photocell device so that the direction angle a of the reflector units always corresponds to the solstice. During said lowest direction angle setting said control can then be so designed that movement downwards of the operating rod 34 causes folding of the reflector units besides the turning movement about the tube 8. During the movements of the reflector units described above the points of engagement 36 between the rod 34 and the wall portions 16 are, of course, moved depending upon the slope of the wall portions 16. In connection with certain applications, which need not necessarily be in connection with venetian blind like devices, the outsides of the wall portions 16, 18 or the like can be treated for the best possible absorption of diffused light. In the folded condition of the reflectors such a solar collector can thereby act as an energy collecting device also in cases when direct sun radiation is not present.