# Programmable fine frequency detector.

## Abstract
A detector circuit 10 is programmed to produce an output signal when an input signal is at a predetermined frequency. The input signal is provided to an inverter 14 to produce an inverse signal. The input signal together with the inverse signal are provided to two switches 16, 18 . The switches 16, 18 are driven by first and second drive signals produced by a drive generator 60 . The output terminals 24, 28 of the switches are alternately connected to the input terminals in synchronism with the corresponding drive sig nals. The output signals from the switches 16, 18 are transmitted through low pass filters 26, 30 and the result ing signals are combined to produce a summation signal by a summation circuit 36 . The summation signal is passed through an absolute value circuit 40 to produce an ab solute value signal. The absolute value signal is examined by a threshold detector circuit 44 which produces an output when the absolute value signal exceeds a preset threshold. An oscillator 52 provides a reference signal to a program mable divider 56 that produces a selected rate signal for the drive generator 60 . The programmable divider 56 is set such that the selected rate signal produced thereby corresponds to the frequency of the input signal to be detect ed. A phase and frequency error detector circuit 60 is provided to form a feedback loop to monitor the output of the switches 16, 18 and drive the programmable divider 56 to produce a selected rate frequency signal which corres ponds to the frequency of the input signal.