# Bundling apparatus.

## Abstract
In a bundling apparatus, a carrier 8 of a transfer mecha nism 1 is moved by a motor 18 of a first driving mechanism 15 from a carrier home position CRHP to a carrier stop po sition CRSP after a stack of sheets P are set on the carrier 8 and then moved from the carrier stop position CRSP to the carrier home position CRHP . On the other hand, a catch er 72 of a winding mechanism 41 is moved along a line of movement including a catcher home position CTHP below the sheets P on the carrier 8 and a catcher intermediate po sition CHIP above the sheets P . The line of movement lies between the carrier home position CRHP and the carrier stop position CRSP . The catcher 72 is moved by the second driv ing mechanism 75 from the catcher home position CTHP to the catcher intermediate position CTIP before the carrier 8 moved from the carrier home position CRHP toward the car rier stop position CRSP by the first driving mechanism 15 crosses the line of the movement, and is moved from the catcher intermediate position CTIP to the catcher home posi tion CTHP after the carrier 8 crosses the line of movement.

## Claims
Claims 1. A bundling apparatus comprising transfer means 1 for receiving stacked objects P to be bundled and transferring the same P along a prescribed path of travel and bundling means 2 for bundling the objects P to be bundled transferred thereto by the transfer means 1 , characterized in that said bundling means 2 includes winding means 41 for winding a band MT around the objects P to be bundled so that one end of the band MT is joined with another portion of the band MT , and bonding means 43 for bonding together the joined end portions of the band wound around the objects P to be bundled, said transfer means 1 including a carrier 8 bearing thereon the objects P to be bundled and capable of moving between a first position where the carrier 8 receives thereon the objects P to be bundled and a second position inside the winding means 41 , and first driving means 15 for moving the carrier 8 from the first position to the second position after the objects P to be bundled are set on the carrier 8 , and then moving the carrier 8 from the second position to the first position, and said winding means 41 includes a catcher 72 retaining the one end of the band MT and capable of moving across the path of travel, the catcher 72 being moved along a line of movement including a third position below the objects P to be bundled on the carrier 8 and a fourth position above the objects P to be bundled, the line of movement lies between the first and second positions, and second drive means 75 for moving the catcher 72 from the third position to the fourth position before the carrier 8 moved from the first position toward the second position by the first driving means 15 crosses the line of movement, moving the catcher 72 from the fourth position to the third position after the carrier crosses the line of movement, thereby winding the band MT around the objects P to be bundled, and then moving the catcher 72 from the third position to fifth position defined between the third and fourth position, thereby joining the one end of the band MT with the other portion of the band MT . 2. The bundling apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in that said catcher can rotate around a prescribed axis of rotation, and said line of movement is circular. 3. The bundling apparatus according to claim 2, characterized in that said catcher is so formed that the diameter of the circular line of movement is shorter than the length of the objects to be bundled along the transfer direction. 4. The bundling apparatus according to claim 3, characterized in that said first and second drive means have a common drive source. 5. The bundling apparatus according to claim 4, characterized in that said carrier includes a plurality of beds on which the objects to be bundled lie, at least two of the beds being separated by a space wider than the width of the band, and said winding means locates the band in the space to wind the band around the objects to be bundled on the beds through the space. 6. The bundling apparatus according to claim 2, characterized in that said winding means includes a rotatable shaft, said second drive means rotates the shaft around the longitudinal axis thereof, and said catcher is attached parallel to the shaft at a given distance apart therefrom and has holding faces between which the one end of the band is held. 7. The bundling apparatus according to claim 6, characterized in that said catcher has a pair of arms facing each other and capable of being joined with and disjoined from each other. 8. The bundling apparatus according to claim 7, characterized in that said holding faces are formed on the opposite surfaces of the distal end portions of the arms. 9. The bundling apparatus according to claim 8, characterized in that said holding faces are formed of corrugated surfaces extending across the line of movement of the catcher. 10. The bundling apparatus according to claim 1, characterized by comprising bundle removal means which removes the objects bundled by the bundling means from the carrier when the carrier bearing the bundled objects is moved from the second position to the first position by the first drive means. 11. The bundling apparatus according to claim 10, characterized in that said carrier further moves between the first position and a sixth position defined on the side of the first position opposite to the second position, said first drive means moves the carrier beyond the first position to the sixth position after the carrier is moved from the second position to the first position, and said bundle removal means includes a scraper fixedly provided between the first and sixth positions and capable of engaging the bundled objects on the carrier, so that the bundled objects abut against the scraper to be removed from the carrier when the carrier is moved from the first position to the sixth position. 12. The bundling apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in that said transfer means includes aligning means attached to the carrier for aligning the objects to be bundled on the carrier as the carrier moves from the first position to the second position. 13. The bundling apparatus according to claim 12, characterized in that said aligning means includes a rising strip erected on the carrier to abut against one side edge of the objects to be bundled, and a regulating strip movably attached to the carrier so that the regulating strip is retained in a seventh position off the objects to be bundled on the carrier when the carrier is in the first position, and that the regulating strip is moved to an eighth position to abut against the other side edges of the objects to be bundled as the carrier is moved from the first position to the second position, whereby the objects to be bundled are pressed against the rising strip to be aligned. 14. The bundling apparatus according to claim 1, characterized by comprising supply means for supplying the band to the catcher of the winding means located in the third position. 15. The bundling apparatus according to claim 14, characterized in that said supply means includes a pair of feed rollers holding the band therebetween and rotatable in one direction to feed the band toward the catcher and in the other direction to pull the band back, a guide roller disposed on the second position side of a straight line connecting the rolling contact position of the pair of feed rollers and the third position of the carrier, and cutting means disposed between the guide roller and the feed rollers and capable of cutting the band. 16. The bundling apparatus according to claim 10, characterized in that said bundle removal means includes a removal lever movable between a ninth position, where the removal lever is located in the path of travel and can abut against the bundled objects on the carrier moved from the second position toward the first position, and a tenth position where the removal lever is off the path of travel, and urging means for urging the removal lever from the tenth position toward the ninth position. 17. The bundling apparatus according to claim 16, characterized by comprising delivery means for delivering the objects to be bundled onto the carrier in the first position, the delivery means being movable from an eleventh position above the carrier toward a twelfth position below the carrier and having a bed nested with the carrier. 18. The bundling apparatus according to claim 17, characterized in that said removal lever in the ninth position can abut against the bed of the delivery means, the tenth position is defined below the ninth position, and the bed of the delivery means is brought to the eleventh position after the carrier is moved from the first position toward the second position, whereby the objects to be bundled are transferred to the carrier and the removal lever is moved from the ninth position to the tenth position when the bed of the delivery means with the objects to be bundled thereon is moved from the eleventh position to the twelfth position, and the bed of the delivery means is returned to the eleventh position to locate the removal lever in the ninth position when the carrier bearing the objects to be bundled is moved from the first position toward the second position.

## Description
Bundling apparatus The present invention relates to a bundling apparatus for collectively bundling objects to be bundled stacked in a pile, and more specifically, to a bundling apparatus in which a band material is wound around objects to be bundled and both ends of the band material are bonded together to securely bundle the objects. Prior art bundling apparatuses of this type have a band material passed along a guide member to form a loop, through which objects to be bundled, such as a stack of sheets, are inserted. After the guide member is drawn out of the looped band material, the band material is tightened and both its end portions are joined and thermally welded together to bundle the stack of sheets. In these conventional bundling apparatuses, however, the width or diameter of the guide member must be greater than the width of the stack of sheets to be bundled. As a result, the size of the apparatus is increased. If the guide member is circular in shape, the width of the sheets inserted therein must be less than the diameter of the guide member. Thus, the apparatus cannot be well adapted to sheets of different widths. If the guide member is formed of guide bars facing each other, it requires a guide bar transfer mechanism for improved adaptability to the sheet width, thus complicating the construction of the apparatus. The present invention has been developed in consideration of these circumstances, and is intended to provide a bundling apparatus which is improved in adaptability to the size of objects to be bundled and which is also compact in design. According to an aspect of the present invention, there is provided a bundling apparatus which comprises transfer means for receiving stacked objects to be bundled and transferring the same along a prescribed path of travel and bundling means for bundling the objects to be bundled transferred thereto by the transfer means, said bundling means including winding means for winding a band around the objects to be bundled so that one end of the band is joined with another portion of the band, and bonding means for bonding together the joined end portions of the band wound around the objects to be bundled, said transfer means including a carrier bearing thereon the objects to be bundled and capable of moving between a first position where the carrier receives thereon the objects to be bundled and a second position inside the winding means, and first driving means for moving the carrier from the first position to the second position after the objects to be bundled are set on the carrier, and then moving the carrier from the second position to the first position, said winding means including a catcher retaining the one end of the band and capable of moving across the path of travel, the catcher being moved along a line of movement including a third position below the objects to be bundled on the carrier and a fourth position above the objects to be bundled, the line of movement lying between the first and second positions, and second drive means for moving the catcher from the third position to the fourth position before the carrier moved from the first position toward the second position by the first driving means crosses the line of movement, moving the catcher from the fourth position to the third position after the carrier crosses the line of movement, thereby winding the band around the objects to be bundled, and then moving the catcher from the third position to a fifth position defined between the third and fourth positions, thereby joining the one end of the band with the other portion of the band. The present invention provides a bundling apparatus characterized in that both the carrier to transfer the objects to be bundled and the catcher retaining the bundling band and revolving in the object transfer direction are driven relatively so that the band is wound around the objects while they are being transferred. This invention can be more fully understood from the following detailed description when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which Fig. 1A is a front view of a transfer mechanism of a bundling apparatus according to one embodiment of the present invention Fig. 1B is a front view of a bundling mechanism of the bundling apparatus Fig. 2 is a plan view collectively showing the bundling apparatus shown in Figs. 1A and lB Fig. 3 is a right side view of the bundling apparatus Fig. 4A is a right side view of a winder of the bundling mechanism Fig. 4B is a perspective view showing the distal end portion of a catcher Fig. 5 is a rear view of the winder Fig. 6 is a front view of a retaining lever mechanism Fig. 7 is a left side view of an open pull drive mechanism Figs. 8A to 8F are front views individually showing steps in a bundling operation Fig. 9 is a sectional view showing a bundled object bundled by the bundling apparatus Fig. 10 is a sectional view showing a first modification of the bundle Figs. 11 and 12 are a front view and a plan view, respectively, showing bundle removal means used in a bundling apparatus according to the other embodiment of the invention Figs. 13A to 13D are front views illustrating several operating steps of the other embodiment Figs. 14A and 14B are front views showing second and third modifications, respectively, of the bundling apparatus according to the invention and Figs. 15A and 15B are sectional views showing bundles provided by the use of the second and third modifications, respectively. A bundling apparatus according to one embodiment of the present invention will now be described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. The bundling apparatus serves to bundle objects to be bundled, e.g., a stack of bank notes, and mainly comprises a transfer mechanism 1 and a bundling mechanism 2. In Figs. 1A and 1B, numeral 3 designates a backup plate which carries thereon and vertically transfers a specified number of bank notes stacked by a stacking apparatus not shown . The transfer mechanism 1 receives the bank notes which are lowered on the backup plate 3 as the backup plate 3 descends and then delivers them to the bundling mechanism 2. The construction of the transfer mechanism 1 will first be explained. As shown in Figs. 2 and 3, the bundling apparatus comprises a pair of side frames 4A and 4B standing on a base not shown . The transfer mechanism 1 is attached to these side frames 4A and 43. A guide rod 6 extends parallel to the one side frame 4A, and is supported at both ends by brackets 5 Fig. 2 attached to the lateral side of the one side frame 4A.A guide rail 7 is attached to the other side frame 4B, facing the guide rod 6. A carrier 8 is provided between the guide rail 7 and the guide rod 6 so as to be movable along them. The carrier 8 includes a frame 9 which is substan tially U shaped in a two dimensional configuration.A plurality of guide rollers 10 in rolling contact with the guide rail 7 are rotatably attached to one lateral portion of the frame 9. Attached to the other lateral portion of the frame 9 is a side bracket 12 with pinch rollers 11 to hold the guide rod 6 from both upper and lower sides. The side bracket 12 is fitted with a first bed 13A having a cut portion and extending horizontally.Second and third beds 13B and 13C are attached to the basal part of the frame 9 by means of an intermediate bracket 14. The second and third beds 13B and 13C are flush with and spaced apart from the first bed 13A.The space between the first and second beds 13A and 13B, which is greater than the width of a band to be mentioned later, forms a gap portion 13D located in the position where the band is wound by a catcher 72 to be mentioned later . The beds 13A to 13C of the carrier 8 and the backup plate 3 are nested into each other. Accordingly, the backup plate 3 can descend from an upper position Ao to a lower position A2 below the beds 13A to 13C via an intermediate position A1 substantially flush with the beds 13A to 13C, as shown in Figs. 1A and 1B. A carrier driver 15 is provided to move the carrier 8 along the guide rod 6. The carrier driver 15 has a stay 19 which is fixed to the side frames 4A and 4B at both ends. The stay 19 is fitted with a reversible motor 18 having a drive sprocket 17A. The drive sprocket 17A faces one end of the one side frame 4A.An idle sprocket 17B is rotatably attached to the other end of the one side frame 4A. An endless chain 20 is stretched between the two sprockets 17A and 17B.A detecting piece 21 and an engaging roller 22 are attached by means of a link holder 23 to one of links not shown constituting the chain 20. The side bracket 12 of the carrier 8 is fitted with a transmission member 24 having a cut portion 24A in which the engaging roller 22 is fitted. The carrier 8 constructed in this manner can move in the longitudinal direction following the movement of the chain 20 through the medium of the engaging roller 22 and the transmission member 24. With this arrangement, as the backup plate 3 descends, the carrier 8 receives the bank notes from the backup plate 3 in a carrier home position CRHP, indicated by a solid line in Figs. IA, 1B and 2. After receiving the bank notes, the carrier 8 is transferred by the carrier driver 15 to a carrier stop positionCRSP indicated by a one dot and dashed line in Figs. 1A, 1B and 2, where the bank notes are bundled by the bundling mechanism 2. Thereafter, as the motor 18 is reversed, the carrier 8 is moved back to a carrier back position CRBP indicated by two dots and dashed line inFigs. 1A, 1B and 2. Then, the motor 18 is rotated in the forward direction, so that the carrier 8 is returned to the carrier home position CRHP. Thus, one cycle of movement for the carrier 8 is completed. Between the carrier home position CRHP and the carrier back position CRBP, a scraper as a bundle removal mechanism 26 is fixedly attached to the base not shown . The scraper 26 is nested with the beds 13A to 13C of the carrier 8, and abuts against a bundle of the bank notes hereinafter referred to simply as a bundle on the carrier 8. Accordingly, while the carrier 8 is moving from the carrier stop position CRSP to the carrier back position CRBP, the bundle on the carrier 8 engages the scraper 26 to be prevented from moving, and then drops from the carrier 8. Thus, the bundle can be delivered to some subsequent process not described by way of a chute 27 under the scraper 26. The use of the scraper 26 enables the bundle to be removed securely from the carrier 8 by a very simple structure. The carrier 8 is further provided with an auxiliary clamp mechanism 29 for preventing the stack of bank notes on the beds 13A to 13C from collapsing during transfer The auxiliary clamp mechanism 29 also serves to orient the bank notes delivered from the backup plate 3 onto the carrier 8 in the longitudinal direction i.e., the bank notes are laid on the carrier 8 so that their longitudinal direction is at right angles to the moving direction of the carrier 8 . As shown in Figs. 2 and 3, one end portion of a clamp bracket 30 is attached to the frame 9 of the carrier 8. A rod 31 is vertically passed through the other end portion of the clamp bracket 30. A clamp holder 32 with a substantiallyU shaped cross section is pivotally mounted on the rod 31 so as to be rockable around the rod 31.A clamp plate 33 lies over the clamp holder 32 and is swingable around a hinge 32A within a vertical plane. A first cam follower 35 rotatable on a horizontal axis is attached to the proximal end portion of the clamp plate 33 by means of a stud 34. A curved aligning rod 36 is attached to the distal end portion of the clamp plate 33. When the clamp holder 32 is rocked in the clockwise direction of Fig. 2, the aligning rod 36 is located between the second and third beds 13B and 13C so as not be in contact therewith. A second cam follower 37 rotatable on a vertical axis is attached to the lower end portion of the clamp holder 32. Fixed on the other side frame 4B is a fixed cam block 38 which engages the first and second cam followers 35 and 37. The fixed cam block 38 is formed of an L shaped channel bar, comprising a first cam face 38A at the upper surface portion CFig. 3 to allow for the vertical swinging of the clamp plate 33 and a second cam face 38B at the lateral face portion Fig. 3 for the horizontal rocking of the clamp holder 32. The right end portion Fig. 2 of the first cam face 38A is rounded and bent downward and the remaining portion thereof is straight.Therefore, when the first cam follower 35 reaches the right end portion of the first cam face 38A, it comes down to cause the clamp plate 33 to swing counterclockwise Fig. 3 around the hinge 32A.The right end portion Fig. 2 of the second cam face 28B is rounded and bent inward and the remaining portion thereof is straight. Therefore, when the second cam follower 37 reaches the right end portion of the second cam face 38B, it moves inward to cause the clamp holder 32 to rock clockwise Fig. 2 around the rod 31. The right end portion of the first cam face 38A is located on the right Fig. 2 of the right end portion of the second cam face 38B. The clamp holder 32 is urged to rock clockwise Fig. 2 by an urging member not shown . In such a state that the carrier 8 is located between the carrier home position CRHP and the carrier back position CRBP, the second cam follower 37 is pushed by the straight portion of the second cam face 38B, so that the clamp plate 33 is located in the position indicated by the solid line in Fig. 2. In other words, the clamp plate 33 is removed from the region over the first to third beds, 13A to 13C. In this state the first cam follower 35 lies on the straight portion of the first cam face 38A, so that the clamp plate 33 is kept substantially horizontal, as indicated by the solid line in Fig. 3. In other words, the clamp plate 33 is held above the stack of bank notes laid on the first to third beds 13A to 13C.As the carrier 8 is moved gradually from the carrier home position CRHP to the carrier stop position CRSP of Fig. 2, the second cam follower 37 is disengaged from the second cam face 38B and then the first cam follower 35 is disengaged from the first cam face 38A, at the right end portions thereof, so that the clamp plate 33 gradually swings clockwise Fig. 3 around the rod 31, urged by the urging member not shown , thereafter, the clamp plate 33 gradually swings counterclockwise Fig. 3 around the hinge 32A. Thus, the aligning rod 36 at the distal end of the clamp plate 33 engages the longitudinal edges of the bank notes on the beds 13A to 130, and pushes the bank notes to back portions 13a to 13c of the beds 13A to 13C to align or true up the bank notes.After this alignment, the distal end portion of the clamp plate 33 presses on the top of the stack of bank notes trued up by the aligning rod 36, thereby preventing the stack of bank notes from collapsing during the transfer. The auxiliary clamp mechanism 29 has an aligning function. Accordingly, no trouble will be caused if the carrier 8 in the carrier home position CRHP is subject to errors in location so that the position of the stack of bank notes on the carrier 8 is deviated.Even though the bank notes on the beds 13A to 13C vary in width, moreover, it is unnecessary to change the carrier home position CRHP and the position of the stacking device including the backup plate 3. Thus, the apparatus of the present invention can enjoy improved applicability to bank notes of varied widths. Since the bank notes are aligned during the transfer of the carrier 8, the processing speed of the apparatus may be increased. Now the construction of the bundling mechanism 2 will be explained. The bundling mechanism 2 comprises a feeder 40 for supplying a band material coated on one side with a thermally fusible material, e.g., a thermal adhesive tape MT with a coating layer CF on the lower surface as in Fig. 1B, a winder 41 for winding the thermal adhesive tape MT from the feeder 40 around the stack of bank notes delivered thereto by the carrier 8, a main clamp mechanism 42 for compressing and holding the stack of bank notes wound with the thermal adhesive tape MT by the winder 41, and a heat bonding mechanism 43 for thermally bonding the thermal adhesive tape MT around the stack of bank notes. The winder 41 includes a turning mechanism 41A for turning up one end portion of the wound tape MT. A stay 45 is stretched between the two side frames 4A and 4B in the vicinity of the carrier stop positionCRSP. The feeder 40 is attached to the substantially central portion of the stay 45 so that it may be located in the gap portion 13D between the first and second beds 13A and 13B when the carrier 8 is positioned as shown in Fig. 2. As shown in Fig. 1B, a feeder bracket 46 is attached to the stay 45. One end portion of a pinch roller holder 47 is pivotally mounted on the feeder bracket 46 so that the pinch roller holder 47 can rock around a shaft 47A. A pinch roller 48 is rotatably supported on the other end portion of the pinch roller holder 47. A feed roller 49 is mounted on a drive shaft 50 so as to be in contact with the pinch roller 48. An urging member, e.g., a leaf spring 51, is attached to the one end portion of the pinch roller holder 47.The distal end portion of the leaf spring 51 engages the tip portion of an adjust screw 52 attached to the feeder bracket 46. The contact pressure of the pinch roller 48 on the feed roller 49 may be finely adjusted by turning the adjust screw 52. The thermal adhesive tape MT is held between the pinch roller 48 and the feed roller 49, and is fed as the feed roller 49 rotates in the clockwise direction of Fig. 1B and returned as the feed roller 49 rotates in the counterclockwise direction. On the down stream side of a tip portion between the feed roller 49 and the pinch roller 48, with respect to the feeding direction of the thermal adhesive tapeMT, lie a fixed cutting edge 53A and a movable cutting edge 53B which reciprocates along the fixed cutting edge 53A in accordance with the operation of a rotary solenoid 54. A guide plate 55 and a guide roller 56 for guiding the thermal adhesive tape MT are arranged on the down stream side of the cutting edges 53A and 53B. As shown in Fig. 3, a drive mechanism 49A for the feed roller 4 comprises an electromagnetic clutch brake 57 attached to the middle portion of the drive shaft 50, an idle gear 58 mounted on the other end portion of the drive shaft 50, a drive gear 59 in mesh with the idle gear 58, and a feed motor 60 for rotating the drive gear 59. The feed motor 60 is a reversible motor, and it is reversed after the thermal adhesive tape MT is moved around the bank notes by the winder 41. The wound thermal adhesive tape MT is supported in the middle by the guide roller 56, and so is pulled back as the feed roller 49 rotates in the counterclockwise direction of Fig. 2. Thus, the bank notes are bound tight. Now the construction of the winder 41 will be described. As shown in Fig. 2, a bearing block 65 containing therein a radial bearing not shown and other members is attached to the one side frame 4A in the vicinity of the carrier stop position CRSP. A drive shaft 66 is rotatably fitted in the bearing block 65 to be supported thereby. A stop collar 67 and a stop plate 68 are attached, respectively, to the proximal part and the distal end part of that portion of the drive shaft 66 which projects inside the one side frame 4A. The stop collar 67 and the stop plate 68 can rotate together with the drive shaft 66. Between the stop collar 67 and the stop plate 68, a guide shaft 69 extends parallel to the drive shaft 66. The drive shaft 66 and the guide shaft 69 constitute a narrow guide 70.A sliding block 71 is fitted in the narrow guide 70 so as to be slidable along the shafts 66 and 69 between the stop collar 67 and the stop plate 68. The stroke of the sliding block 71 is longer than the width of the thermal adhesive tapeMT. The sliding block 71 is provided with the catcher 72 to hold the thermal adhesive tape MT supplied from the feeder 40. Figs. 4A and 5 show the catcher 72 in detail. The catcher 72 includes a platelike fixed catcher member 72A screwed to the sliding block 71, and a platelike swinging catcher member 72B swingably attached to the sliding block 71 and capable of being joined with the fixed catcher member 72A. An L shaped rocking hook portion 72C is formed at the proximal end portion of the swinging catcher member 72B. By pulling the rocking hook portion 72C to the left of Fig. 4A, the swinging catcher member 72B is separated from the fixed catcher member 72A at a given angle. As shown in Fig. 5, a hook lever 73 is attached to that portion of the sliding block 71 which forms an angle of approximately 900 around the drive shaft 66 with the rocking hook portion 72C.When the hook lever 73 is pulled to the left ofFig. 4A, the sliding block 71 is moved to the left, so that the catcher 72 is taken out of the range of travel of the thermal adhesive tape MT. Namely, the catcher 72 is disengaged from the thermal adhesive tape MT. The hook lever 73, along with the catcher 72 and the hook portion 72C, can revolve around the drive shaft 66 as the shaft 66 rotates, while keeping the relative positions shown in Fig. 5. Here a fixed angle e is kept between a plane including the drive shaft 66 and the catcher 72, and an extending surface of the catcher 72. This special arrangement constitutes the turning mechanism 41A. On the opposite faces of the distal end portions of the fixed and swinging catcher members 72A and 72B tape holding portions 72D Fig. 4B are formed with a plurality of ridges extending along the extending direction of the catcher 72, that is, at right angles to the tape winding direction. Thus, the thermal adhesive tape MT is prevented from slipping off from the catcher 72 when the catcher 72 holding the tape MT is rotated. When the catcher 72 is moved to the left in Fig. 4A, it can readily be removed from the thermal adhesive tape MT. A catcher driver 75 is attached to the one side frame 4A. The catcher driver 75 serves to rotate the catcher 72 as the drive shaft 66 rotates. As shown in Fig. 1B, the catcher driver 75 comprises a first gear 75A to rotate together and coaxially with the idle sprocket 17B, a second gear 75B in mesh with the first gear 75B., a third gear 75C to rotate together and coaxially with the second gear 75B, and a fourth gear 75E coaxially fixed to one end of the drive shaft 66.A rotatary force is transmitted from the third gear 75C to the fourth gear 75E by means of a timing belt 75D which is stretched between the third gear 75C and fourth gear 75E. Thus, the catcher driver 75 is driven by the same drive source motor 18 with the carrier dirver 15.Accordingly, the catcher 72 rotates interlocking with the moving carrier 8. Namely, the catcher 72 holding the forward end portion of the thermal adhesive tape MT gradually rotates in the counterclockwise direction of Fig. 1B while the carrier 8 moves from the carrier home positionCRHP to the carrier stop position CRSP, as shown inFig. 1B. Thus, the bank notes on the carrier 8 are gradually wound with the thermal adhesive tape MT. Therefore, the radius of gyration of the catcher 72 can be made shorter than the width of the bank notes.According to the prior art mechanism, the thermal adhesive tape must be pulled around a stack of bank notes at a standstill. It is therefore necessary that the radius of gyration of the conventional catcher be longer than the width of the stack of bank notes. In this embodiment, the radius of gyration of the catcher 72 need only be longer than the height of the stack of bank notes, theoretically. By the use of the winder 41 of the aforementioned construction, it is unnecessary to change the radius of gyration of the catcher 72 even if the bank notes vary in width. Thus, the winder 41 can be made compact and improved in applicability to the bank note width.When exporting the bundling apparatus to be used, for example, as a bank note bundling apparatus , therefore, it is unnecessary to change or readjust the apparatus according to the width of bank notes or bills used in the importing country.For example, a Japanese 10,000 yen note is 84 mm wide a U.S. dollar is 66 mm wide, a United Kingdom 10 pound note is 85 mm wide, a West German 100 mark note is 80 mm wide, a French 100 franc note is 92 mm wide, an Austrian 1,000 schilling note is 84 mm wide, aDutch 100 guilder note is 76 mm wide, and an Italian 10,000 lira note is 78 mm wide. The bundling apparatus of the present one embodiment can bundle all these sizes of bank notes without any remodeling. As described before, the catcher 72 does not rotate relative to the sliding block 71, but revolves in one with the sliding block 71 around the drive shaft 66.Therefore, when the thermal adhesive tape MT held by the catcher 72 is moved around the stack of bank notes, the forward end portion of the thermal adhesive tape MT projecting from the distal end portion of the catcher 72 is turned up so that the coating layer CF with the fusible material faces inside. Thus, a turnup portionBP is formed on the forward end portion of the thermal adhesive tape MT. The coating layer CF of the turnup portion BP is opposed to the coating layer CF of the thermal adhesive tape MT. Even through the turnup portion BP is heated, therefore, the fusible material will never stick to the bank notes. Thus, the heat bonding mechanism 43 heats that portion of the thermal adhesive tape MT which is joined with the turnup portion BP. The respective motions of the carrier 8 and the catcher 72, in particular, are physically interlocked by mechanical means. Accordingly, it is possible to completely prevent timing errors attributed to electrical noise or interference between the movement of the catcher 72 and the rotation of the carrier 8. Referring now to Fig. 13, the interlocking timing of the catcher 72 and the carrier 8 will be described. When the carrier 8 is kn the carrier home position CRHP, the catcher 72 is located in a catcher home position CTHP indicated by a solid line in Fig. 1B. At this time, the engaging roller 22 attached to the chain 20 is located in a roller home position RHP indicated by a solid line in Fig. 1B.When the carrier 8 reaches the carrier stop position CRSP, the engaging roller 22 is brought to a roller separation position RTOP indicated by a two dots and dash line on the idle sprocket 17B.At this time, the catcher 72 is located in a catcher intermediate position CTIP over the stack of bank notes, as indicated by a one dot and dash line in Fig. 1B. When the engaging roller 22 reaches a first reverse position 1st RP beyond the roller separation positionRTOP, the catcher 72 passes through the catcher home position CTHP to reach a catcher seal position CTSP indicated by a two dots and dash line in Fig. 1B. When the engaging roller 22 moves between the roller separation position RTOP and the first reverse position 1st RP, it is disengaged from the transmission member 24. Accordingly, the carrier 8 does not move, and only the catcher 72 rotates. The motor 18 is rotated in the reverse direction to move the engaging roller 22 to a second reverse position 2nd RP behind the roller home position RHP. Then, the motor 18 is rotated again in the forward direction to move the engaging roller 22 to the roller home position RHP. Thus, the carrier 8 is returned to the carrier home position CRHP. When the catcher 72 is in the catcher home position CTRP as indicated by a two dots and dash line in Fig. 5, the sliding block 71 assumes a first stop position 1st SP.When the catcher 72 is in the catcher seal position CTSP, the sliding block 71 takes a second stop position 2nd SP as indicated by a solid line in Fig. 5. To secure such interlocking timing, a carrier retaining mechanism is provided which holds the carrier 8 when the engaging roller 22 moves between the roller separation position RTOP and the first reverse position 1st RP to rotate only the catcher 72. As shown inFig. 1B, the carrier retaining mechanism is provided with a magnet block 78 which magnetically attracts and holds the carrier 8 in the carrier stop position CRSP.As shown in Figs. 2 and 6, the carrier retaining mechanism further includes a retaining lever mechanism 79 disposed near the idle sprocket 17B. The retaining lever mechanism 79 has a stud 80 attached to the inner surface of the one side frame 4A. A retaining lever 81 is swingably attached to the stud 80 so as to be able to engage the engaging roller 22 moving together with the chain 20. The retaining lever 81 is urged in the counterclockwise direction of Fig. 6 by an urging member not shown , and kept inclined, as indicated by a solid line in Fig. 6. A bent hook portion 81A is formed at the right end portion Figs. 2 and 6 of the retaining lever 81. When the carrier 8 is moved to the carrier stop position CRSP, the hook portion 81A slips into a groove 82A of a stopper 82 attached to the lateral portion of the carrier 8.As the engaging roller 22 moving with the chain 20 engages the left end portion of the retaining lever 81, the regaining lever 81 is gradually swung clockwise Fig. 6 against the urging force of the urging member not shown . Immediately after the carrier 8 reaches the carrier stop positionCRSP to cause the engaging roller 22 to be disengaged from the transmission member 24, the engaging roller 22 reaches a cut portion 81B at the middle portion of the retaining lever 81. Accordingly, the retaining lever 81 is swung counterclockwise Fig. 6 by the urging force of the urging member, so that the hook portion 81A is fitted in the stopper 82 of the carrier 8 to position the carrier 8 in place.This carrier retaining mechanism prevents the carrier 8 from being dislocated even if the thermal adhesive tape MT is tightened after it is wound around the stack of bank notes. Thus, the timing of the interlocking between the carrier 8 and the catcher 72 can be maintained with high reliability. The catcher 72 is opened to receive the thermal adhesive tape 4T in the catcher home position CTHP,When in the catcher seal position CTSP, the catcher 72 is pulled downward as in Fig. 2 or to the left inFig. 4 to be disengaged from the bundle. To perform these actions of the catcher 72, an open pull driver 85 is attached to the one side frame 4A, as shown in Fig. 2.Fig. 5 shows the back of the open pull driver 85, andFig. 7 is a left side view showing part of the open pull driver 85. As shown in Fig. 2, the open pull driver 85 has a lever holder 86 which is L shaped in plane configuration and attached to the one side frame 4A. Two guide rollers 87 only one is shown in Fig. 2 are arranged side by side on the lever holder 86 at right angles to the feeding direction of the bank notes. An open lever 88 having a slot 88A and a pull lever 89 having a slot 89A are reciprocatively supported by the guide rollers 87 so that the guide rollers 87 are fitted in the slots 88A and 89A. At one end portion of the pull lever 89 a pull lever hook portion 89B is formed which can engage the hook lever 73 attached to the sliding block 71. As the hook portion 89B engaging the hook lever 73 is pulled to the right in Fig. 7, therefore, the sliding block 71 is pulled in a like manner, and the catcher 72 is disengaged from the thermal adhesive tape MT. A guide roller 90 is rotatably attached to the other end portion of the pull lever 89. At one end portion of the open lever 88 an open lever hook portion 88B is formed which can engage the hook portion 72C formed on the swinging catcher member 72B. As the hook portion 88B engaging the hook portion 82C is pulled to the right of Fig. 7, therefore, the swinging catcher member 72B is swung in a clockwise direction in Fig. 4A, so that the catcher 72 is opened.An abutting portion 88C to abut against the pull lever hook portion 89B is formed at the middle portion of the open lever 88. A rotary solenoid 92 is attached to the one side frame 4A by means of a solenoid holder 91. One end portion of a rocking lever 93 is fixed to a solenoid shaft 92A of the rotary solenoid 92. At the other end portion of the rocking lever 93 a cut portion 93A is formed which engages the guide roller 90 attached to the other end portion of the pull lever 89. Thus, the pull lever 89 reciprocates as the rocking lever 93 rocks, and the open lever 88 moves when the pull lever hook portion 89B abuts against the abutting portion 88C of the open lever 88. The open lever 88 is urged to the left of Fig. 7 by an urging member not shown .As shown in Fig. 5, the open lever 88 and the pull lever 89 are arranged at a given angle to each other When the catcher 72 is in the catcher home positionCTHP, as indicated by a two dots and dash line in Fig. 5, the hook portion 72C of the catcher 72 is located in such a position that it can engage the open lever hook portion 88B. If the rotary solenoid 92 is then actuated, only the opening of the catcher 72 can be achieved.In any other position than the catcher home positionCTHP, the catcher 72 is closed. When the catcher 72 is in the catcher seal position CTSP, as indicated by a solid line in Fig. 5, the hook lever 73 attached to the sliding block 71 is located in the position to engage the pull lever hook portion 89B. If the rotary solenoid 92 is then actuated, the sliding block 71 can be moved along the drive shaft 66. As shown in Figs. 2 and 7, a sensor, e.g. a photosensor 95, for checking the operation of the open pull driver 85 is provided at the middle portion of the lever holder 86. A detected plate 96 to be detected by the sensor 95 is attached to the rocking lever 93 When the abutting portion 88C of the open lever 88 moves in contact with the pull lever hook portion 89B of the pull lever 89, the extreme end of the detected plate 96 is disengaged from the sensor 95. In this manner, the sensor 95 checks the open pull driver 85 for operation.With this arrangement, the single rotary solenoid 92 can serve both to insert the thermal adhesive tape MT in the catcher 72 and to disengage the catcher 72 from the bundle. Moreover, the operation check can be achieved by the use of the single sensor 95. The main clamp mechanism 42 is constructed as shown in Figs. 1B and 2. One end portion of a horizontally extending clamp bracket 100 is attached to the right end portion Fig. 2 of the one side frame 4A. Two vertically extending guide plates 101 arranged parallel to each other with a prop 102 between them are fixed to the other end portion of the clamp bracket 100. The guide plates 101 have their respective guide slots 101A extending along their longitudinal direction. A pair of clamp levers 104, each having two guide rollers 103 at one end portion to be fitted in the guide slot 101A of each guide plate 101, extend to the left in Fig. 2 so that the two guide plates 101 are sandwiched between the clamp levers 104. Thus, the clamp levers 104 can move along their corresponding guide slots 101A. The two clamp levers 104 are coupled by means of a shaft 105 and thus can move as a body.The clamp levers 104 are arranged in such positions that they do not come into contact with either the thermal adhesive tape MT wound around the stack of bank notes on the carrier 8 or with the clamp plate 33. A clamp lever driver 106 is provided for moving the clamp levers 104. The clamp lever driver 106 comprises a bearing 107 at the intermediate portion of the clamp bracket 100, a drive shaft 108 rockably supported by the bearing 107, a cam lever 109 fixed to one end of the drive shaft 108 and having a cut portion 109A to engage the shaft 105, a cam follower lever 110 fixed to the other end of the drive shaft 108 and having a cam follower llOA, a clamp motor 111 having a cam lllA to engage the cam follower ll0A, and an urging member not shown to bring the cam follower 110A into close contact with the outer peripheral surface of the cam lllA. Thus constructed, the clamp lever driver 106 can reciprocate the clamp levers 104 along the guide slots 101A by means of the cam lever 109 which rocks as the cam lllA rotates. The heat bonding mechanism 43 is constructed as shown in Figs. 1B and 2. A heat bonding bracket 115 is attached to the other side frame 4B. A guide base 117 is attached to the heat bonding bracket 115 by means of a block 116, extending parallel to the side frame 4B.The guide base 117 is fitted with two pairs of guide rollers 118 arranged along the tape feeding direction and facing one another. A slide base 119 is held between the guide rollers 118 for reciprocation. A heater block 121 is mounted on the slide base 119 by means of a holder 120. The heater block 121 is rockably attached to the holder 120. The heater block 121 is urged in the clockwise direction of Fig. 1B by an urging member not shown , and is kept by a stopper not shown in the position indicated by a solid line in Fig. lB. When the slide base 119 moves upward Fig. 1B , the heater block 121 abuts against that portion of the thermal adhesive tape MT around the stack of bank notes on the carrier 8 which is joined with the turnup portionBP. Thereafter, the heater block 121 rocks counterclockwise Fig. 1B against the urging force of the urging member to assume the position indicated by a two dots and dash line in Fig. 1B. A heater block drive mechanism 128 is formed of a guide roller 122 mounted on the intermediate portion of the slide base 119, a rocking lever 123 having, at one end portion, a cut portion to engage the guide roller 122 and, rockably mounted on the heat bonding bracket 115 at the other end portion, a crank lever 124 having a slider 124A to engage a slot in the middle portion of the rocking lever 123, and a drive motor 125 for rotating the crack lever 124. Thus, the heater block 121 is reciprocated by actuating the drive motor 125. As shown in Fig. lB, a tape stopper 126 formed of, e.g., a leaf spring, is rockably disposed between the two guide plates 101. A nonskid rubber plate 127 is attached to the upper surface of the tape stopper 126.The tape stopper 126 rocks as the heater block 121 moves. Namely, the tape stopper 126 presses the thermal adhesive tape MT against the stack of bank notes P before the heat bonding operation by the heater block 121, thereby preventing the tape MT from slackening when cut by the cutting edges 53A and 53B of the feeder 40. Referring mainly to Figs. 8A to 8F, the operation of the bundling apparatus of the aforementioned construction will now be described. When the carrier 8 is in the carrier home positionCRHP, as shown in Fig. 8A, the backup plate 3 is lowered so that the stack of bank notes P on the backup plate 3 is transferred to the beds 13A to 13C of the carrier 8.At this time, the catcher 72 is in the catcher home position CTHP. Namely, the hook portion 72C of the catcher 72 is in the position where it engages the open lever hook portion 88B. Accordingly, the catcher 72 is opened ti.e., the fixed and swinging catcher members 72A and 72B, respectively, are separated as shown InFig. 8A when the rotary solenoid 92 is actuated. Then, the thermal adhesive tape MT is inserted between the fixed and swinging catcher members 72A and 72B by the feeder 40. Thereafter, the rotary solenoid 92 is demagnetized to cause the thermal adhesive tape MT to be held by the catcher 72. After this is done, the motor 18 is driven in the clockwise direction of Fig. 1B to move the carrier 8 and the catcher 72 in an interlocked manner to each other.At this time, the carrier 8 and the catcher 72 move as shown in Figs. 8B and 8C. Thus, as the carrier 8 moves, the catcher 72 rotates counterclockwise to wind the thermal adhesive tape MT gradually around the stack of bank notes P. Since the carrier 8 and the catcher 72 are interlocked, the radius of gyration of the catcher 72 can be shorter than the width of the stack of bank notes P along the transfer direction thereof. As a result, the winder 41 can be made compact, and improved in applicability to the width of the bank notes P.The turnup portion BP with the coating layer CF inward is formed at the forward end portion of the thermal adhesive tape MT by revolving the catcher 72 around the drive shaft 66 while maintaining the fixed angle 6 between the catcher 72 and the drive shaft 66. Accordingly, the fusible material on the thermal adhesive tape MT will never stick to the bank notes P even though the tape MT is joined with the turnup portionBP for thermal welding. The stack of bank notes P is wound with the thermal adhesive tape MT on the carrier 8 by the use of the space between the first and second beds 13A and 13B. It is therefore possible to avoid delivery action of bank notes which may cause the dislocation or collapse of the stack of bank notes P.The auxiliary clamp mechanism 29 rocks in the clockwise direction in Fig. 2 before the carrier 8 reaches the carrier stop position CRSP shown in Fig. 8C. Thus, the bank notes P on the carrier 8 and pushed and aligned by the aligning rod 36 of the auxiliary clamp mechanism 29. The aligned bank notes P are retained by the bottom surface of the clamp plate 33. Therefore, the dislocation and collapse of the stack of bank notes P can be prevented even though the tape winding is executed during the transfer of the stack of bank notes P. When the carrier 8 reaches the carrier stop position CRSP, the engaging roller 22 moving with the chain 20 is disengaged from the transmission member 24 attached to the carrier 8, as shown in Fig. 6. At this time, the retaining lever 81 of the retaining lever mechanism 79 is actuated by the engaging roller 22 to be fitted in the groove 82A of the stopper 82 of the carrier 8. Thus, the carrier 8 is retained in the carrier stop position CRSP. The chain 20 is then driven continuously to rotate the catcher 72 up to the catcher seal position CTSP shown in Fig. 8D. Thereupon, the clamp levers 104 of the main clamp mechanism 42 are lowered to compressively hold the stack of bank notes P on the carrier 8, as shown in Fig. 8E.Since the auxiliary clamp mechanism 29 also presses on the stack of bank notes P when the main clamp mechanism 42 operates, the stack of bank notes P is doubly clamped by the main and auxiliary clamp mechanisms 42 and 29.Accordingly, the stack of bank notes P will not be left unclamped before it is clamped by the main clamp mechanism 42. Thus, the stack of bank notes P can be securely retained. In this state, the feeder 40 pulls back the thermal adhesive tape MT for tightening, thereby bringing the tape MT into close contact with the stack of bank notes P. As shown in Figs. 8A to 8E, the supply direction and return direction of the thermal adhesive tape MT are different. The thermal adhesive tape MT, however, is guided by the guIde roller 56.Therefore, it is unnecessary to provide a mechanism for changing the position of the feeder 40 according to the shift between the supply and return directions of the thermal adhesive tape MT. Thereafter, the heater block 121 of the heat bonding mechanism 43 is moved in the direction of arrow X of Fig. 8F. As the heater block 121 moves, the tape stopper 126 rocks clockwise, so that the rubber plate 127 on the tape stopper 126 presses the thermal adhesive tape MT against the stack of bank notes P to retain the bank notes. Thereafter, the thermal adhesive tape MT is cut by the cutting edges 53A and 53B of the feeder 40. Then, the heater block 121 moving in the direction of arrow X heats the cut end portion of the thermal adhesive tape MT while joining it to the turnup portion BP.Since only that portion of the thermal adhesive tape MT which is joined with the turnup portion BP is heated, the turnup portion BP and the cut end of the tape MT can be welded together with the aid of the fusible material between them without causing the fusible material to stick to the stack of bank notes P. Accordingly, it is unnecessary to use the heater pad which is conventionally inserted between the stack of bank notes and the heated portion of the thermal adhesive tape when they are welded without forming the turnup portion. Thus, there is no fear of the thermal adhesive tape MT sticking to the heater pad. After the thermal welding, the carrier 8, along with the bundle, is moved to the carrier back positionCRBP, so that the catcher 72 is disengaged from the bundle. When the catcher 72 is in the catcher seal position CTSP, the hook lever 73 of the sliding block 71 is so located as to engage the pull lever hook portion 89B of the pull lever 89 of the open pull driver 85, as shown in Fig. 5. When the rotary solenoid 92 is actuated, therefore, the pull lever 89 is moved downward Fig. 2 , so that the catcher 72 is disengaged from the bundle. When the main clamp mechanism 42 is returned to the position shown in Fig. 1B, the carrier 8 is moved in the reverse direction. In the middle of the transfer of the carrier 8, the auxiliary clamp mechanism 29 is returned to the position indicated by the solid line in Fig. 2.When the carrier 8 passes by the scraper 26 nested therewith, only the bundle on the carrier B abuts against the scraper 26 to be restrained thereby from moving, and is dropped into the chute 72 below. Then, the carrier 8 is moved again in the forward direction from the carrier back positionCRBP to the carrier home position CRHP. Thus, one cycle of operation is completed. It is to be understood that the present invention is not limited to the arrangement of the aforementioned one embodiment, and that various changes and modifications may be effected therein by one skilled in the art without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention. In the aforementioned embodiment, the objects to be bundled are described as bank notes. However, the apparatus of the present invention may be applied to packages in a pile and to any other suitable objects or materials. The manner of turning up the band material by the winder is not limited to the one illustrated in Fig. 9.As shown as a modification in Fig. 10, for example, the thermal adhesive tape MT may be wound around the stack of bank notes P with the coating layer CF outward so that the turnup portion BP is formed at the cut end portion of the tape MT. Although the auxiliary clamp mechanism 29 also serves as aligning means in the foregoing embodiment, the bank notes may be aligned by any other suitable means. In lowering the backup plate 3 of Fig. 1 to transfer the stack of bank notes thereon to the carrier 8, the backup plate 3 may first be lowered from the upper position Ag to the position A1 of Fig. 1. Then, the carrier 8 is moved to the right of Fig. 1 to bring the back plates 13a, 13b and 13c of the carrier 8 into contact with the stack of bank notes on the backup plate 3, thereby aligning or truing up the bank notes. Imme diately after this, the backup plate 3 is lowered to the lower position A2 to transfer the stack of sheets entirely to the carrier 8. In the aforementioned embodiment, moreover, the motion of the carrier and the catcher are physically interlocked by their mechanical arrangement. Alternatively, however, an independent drive mechanism may be provided so that the carrier and the catcher are operated synchronously under electronic control. It is to be understood that the above description is for purposes of illustration only, and that the individual members of the apparatus may be replaced with any other suitable members with the same functions. In the bundling apparatus of the present invention, as described above, one end portion of a band material coated on one side with a thermally fusible material is turned up so that the band material may be thermally bonded at the turnup portion. Thus, the heater pad, which is essential to the prior art apparatus, is obviated in the present invention, and the objects to be bundled can be bundled with a higher reliability. Referring now to Figs. 11 to 13D, a bundling apparatus according to the other embodiment of the present invention will be described. In the description to follow, like reference numerals are used to designate like portions described in connection with the foregoing embodiment. The other embodiment uses bundle removal mechanism 126 which is different in construction from the bundle removal mechanism or scraper 26 used in the one embodiment. The bundle removal mechanism 126 is mounted on the base not shown so as to be located under the carrier 8 in the carrier home position CRHP. As shown in Figs. 11 and 12, the bundle removal mechanism 126 is provided with a removal lever 126A whose front end or right end portion as illustrated is bent and nested in the beds 13A to 13C. The removal lever 126A can rock around support holders 126B. The rear end portion of the removal lever 126A is urged by an urging member 126C so that the removal lever 126A is rocked in the counterclockwise direction of Fig. 11.Stoppers 126D are located between the holders 126B and the urging member 126C to restrict the stopping position of the removal lever 126at As shown in Fig. 11, the removal lever 126A is so set that, when no external force is applied to it, its front end portion is located on the right end side of the carrier 8 in the carrier home position CRHP and in the path of travel of the carrier 8. Further, the removal lever 126A is so designed that, when the backup plate 3 is lowered, it abuts against the front end portion of the removal lever 126A to rock the lever 126A in the clockwise direction in Fig. 11 so that the front end portion of the lever 126A is located below the upper surfaces of the beds 13A to 13C. By the use of the bundle removal mechanism 126 constructed in this manner, the transfer of the stack of bank notes P from the backup plate 3 to the carrier 8 and the removal of a bundled stack of bank notes P from the carrier 8 are executed as follows. First, as shown in Fig. 13A, the carrier 8 is on stand by in the carrier home position CRHP when a specified number of bank notes P are put on the backup plate 3. At this time, the removal lever 126A is on stand by in the path of travel of the carrier 8, having its front end portion nested with the carrier 8. When the backup plate 3 descends, the lower surface of the backup plate 3 abuts against the front end portion of the removal lever 126A to rock the lever 126A clockwise against the urging force of the urging member 126C, When the backup plate 3 is further lowered, it passes by the beds 13A to 13C of the carrier 8 in the nested manner to transfer the stack of bank notes P thereon to the beds 13A to 13C of the carrier 8, as shown inFig. 13B. Thereafter, the motor 18 is driven in the clockwise direction of Fig. 11 to move the carrier 8 and the catcher 72 in an interlocked manner. At this time, the carrier 8 and the catcher 72 move in the manner described in the one embodiment with reference toFigs. 8A to 8F. That is, the carrier 8 transfers the stack of bank notes P directly to the bundling mechanism 2 see Figs. 8B and 8C . As the carrier 8 moves, the catcher 72 rotates gradually to wind the band material around the stack of bank notes P. When the carrier 8 is separated at a given distance from the backup plate 3, the backup plate 3 is elevated to accept another stack of bank notes P to be bundled subsequently.At this time, the removal lever 126A, which has so far been abutting against the backup plate 3, follows the rising backup plate 3 to be rocked by the urging force of the urging member 126C. The rocking of the removal lever 126A is restricted by the stoppers 126D. Thus, the removal lever 126A is returned to the position shown in Fig. 13A. Thereafter, the bundling operation is performed in the manner shown in Figs. 8D to 8F, and the carrier 8 is moved to the carrier home position CRHP as the motor 18 is reversed. The carrier 8 is nested with the front end portion of the removal lever 126A when it reaches a position just short of the carrier home position CRHP. Then, the bundle P on the carrier 8 abuts against the front end portion of the removal lever 126A to be restrained from moving, as shown in Fig. 13C. As the carrier 8 gradually approaches the carrier home position CRHP, the bundle P is dropped from the carrier 8 into the chute 27 thereunder, as shown in Fig. 13D. Then, the carrier 8 is transferred to the carrier home positionCRHP, and one cycle of operation is completed. By the use of the bundle removal mechanism 126, the bundle can be easily and reliably removed, and it is possible to obviate the need for the backward movement of the carrier which is required in the one embodiment by the scraper 26 which is nested in the carrier and engages the bundle delivered thereto to drop the same from the carrier fixed behind the carrier home positionCRHP. Thus, the apparatus may be made more compact. In the one embodiment, the opposite faces of the clamp lever 104 and the beds 13A to 13C of the carrier 8 carrying the stack of bank notes P are flat. However, the present invention is not limited to this arrangement.As shown as first and second modifications, respectively, in Figs. 14A and 14B, for example, the opposite faces of the clamp lever 104 and the bed 13A or 13B or 13C may be curved in the same direction. With these arrangements, the stack of bank notes P is bundled in the manner shown in Figs. 15A and 15B. Thus, the bank notes can be bundled securely, and the bundle P can be prevented from collapsing. Moreover, it is unnecessary to use pressure holding belts a pair of belts with gradually narrowed opposite faces which have conventionally been required for an increased bundling strength. Thus, in this invention, the bundling strength can be increased using of a very simple construction. The removal lever 126A in the second embodiment is described as being of a rocking type. Alternatively, however, the removal lever 126A may be so constructed as to slide vertically under the carrier home positionCRHP. Also, the removal lever 126A may be so designed as to be moved out of the path of travel of the transfer means when it abuts against the objects to be bundled.