# Process for preparation of optically active 4 2 Hydroxyethyl 2 azetidinone.

## Abstract
An improved process for preparing an optically active 4 2 hydroxyethyl 2 azetidinone represented by the for mula I

## Claims
WHAT WE CLAIM IS 1. A process for the preparation of an optically active 4 2 hydroxyethyl 2 azetidinone represented by the formula I EMI9.1 wherein R1 is hydrogen atom or a protective group of amino group, which comprises reacting an optically active carboxylic acid ester represented by the formula II EMI9.2 wherein R1 is the same as that defined above R2 is alkyl or aralkyl group having from 1 to 7 carbon atoms, with a reducing agent. 2. The process of Claim 1 wherein the absolute configuration of the compound of the formula I is 4R . 3. The process of Claim 1 wherein the absolute configuration of the compound of the formula I is 4S . 4. The process of Claim 1 wherein R2 is methyl group and R1 is hydrogen atom. 5. The process of Claim 1 wherein R is tri organosilyl group. 6. The process of Claim 5 wherein the tri organosilyl group is triisopropylsilyl, t butyldimethylsilyl or t butyldiphenylsilyl. 7. The process of Claim 1 wherein the reducing agent is a metal hydride complex. 8. The process of Claim 7 wherein the metal hydride complex is lithium aluminum tetrahydride or lithium boron tetrahydride. 9. The process of Claim 7 wherein the metal hydride complex is a combination mixture of sodium boron tetrahydride with lithium halide or potassium boron tetrahydride with lithium halide. 10. The process of Claim 1 wherein the reducing agent is a complex of borane with tetrahydrofuran, dimethyl sulfide, triethylamine or pyridine. 11. The process of Claim 1 wherein the reduction of the compound of the formula II is carried out at a temperature of from 700C to 80 C.

## Description
PROWESS EOR .PREPARAPION OF OPTICALLY ACTIVE 4 2 HYDROXYETHYL 2 AZETIDINONE The present invention relates to a process for the preparation of an optically active 4 2 hydroxyethyl 2 azetidinone. More specifically, the present invention relates to a process for preparing an optically active 4 2 hydroxyethyl 2 azetidinone represented by the formula I EMI1.1 wherein R1 is hydrogen atom or a protective group of amino group, which comprises reacting an optically active carboxylic acid ester represented by the formula II EMI1.2 wherein RÚ is the same as that defined above Rê is alkyl or aralkyl group having from 1 to 7 carbon atoms, with a reducing agent. The product of the present invention is an important and useful intermediate compound for producing a known or novel class of antibiotics. For example, thienamycin and its analogs are produced from the compound of the present invention. An optically active starting compound II has been available by chemico enzymatic reaction M. Ohno, et al, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 103, 2405 1981 and the establishment of the method to convert the side chain atC 4 position of the compound II into 4 2 hydroxyethyl group while maintaining its configuration has been expected to develope an easy method for producing thienamycin or its analogs. The object of the present invention is therefore to provide an improved process for preparing an optically active 4 2 hydroxyethyl 2 azetidinone by reacting an optically active carboxylic acid ester with a reducing agent. A racemic compound of the formula I is obtained from 4 2 acetyloxyethyl 2 azetidinone by alkaline hydrolysis e.g. U.S.P. Nos. 4,217,453 4,218,459 4,18,463 , but the preparation of an optically active compound I has never hitherto been disclosed. A racemic 4 hydroxymethyl 2 azetidinone being a homologous compound of the compound I is prepared by reduction of 4 methoxycarbonyl 2 azetidinone with sodium boron tetrahydride w.F. Huffman, K.G. Holden, T.F. Buckley,J.G. Gleason, L. Wu, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 99, 2352 1977 .The reduction of the compound II with sodium boron tetrahydride, however, gives only a little amount of the desired compound I . The present inventors found that a more reactive reducing agent than sodium boron tetrahydride, e.g., lithium boron tetrahydride is effective for converting an ester group in the compound II into an alcohol group.Such reagents as more reactive than sodium boron tetrahydride were thought to be so reactive that an unstable ss lactam ring might be cleaved. In fact, there was no previous example of using such reagents in this field. In accordance with the present invention, there can be provided a process for the preparation of an optically active 4 2 hydroxyethyl 2 azetidinone represented by the formula I EMI2.1 wherein R1 is hydrogen atom or a protective group of amino group, which comprises reacting an optically adtive carboxylic acid ester represented by the formula II EMI3.1 wherein R is the same as that defined above R2 is alkyl or aralkyl group having from 1 to 7 carbon atoms, with a reducing agent. As previously noted, the present invention involves an improved process for the preparation of an optically active 4 2 hydroxyethyl 2 azetidinone represented by the formula I EMI3.2 wherein R1 is hydrogen atom or a protective group of amino group. A bioactivity of the antibiotics derived from the compound I depends on the absolute configuration atC 4 position. The enantiomer of the compound I having a 4R configuration is a preferable intermediate compound for producing thienamycin or its analogs. The antipode of the compound I having a 4S configuration is also prepared by the process of the present invention by using the starting compound II having a 4R configuration. According to the process of the present invention, the protective groups of amino group include tri organosilyl groups such as triisopropylsilyl, t butyldiphenylsilyl and t butyldimethylsilyl, preferably t butyldimethylsilyl. Alkyl or aralkyl groups having from 1 to 7 carbon atoms represented by R2 in the compound II include straight or branched hydrocarbon groups such as methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl, isobutyl, t butyl, and benzyl, p nitrobenzyl group, preferably methyl.The reducing agent is selected from metal hydrides complex such as lithium aluminum tetrahydride or lithium boron tetrahydride a combination mixture of sodium or potassium boron tetrahydride with lithium halide such as lithium fluoride, chloride, bromide or iodide a complex of borane with tetrahydrofuran, dimethyl sulfide, triethylamine, t butylamine, N,N dimethylaniline, or pyridine preferably lithium boron tetrahydride. The reduction is carried out, in general, at a temperature of from 700C to 80 C. When lithium aluminum tetrahydride is used as a reducing agent, it is desirable to protect amide proton at N l position with a protective group as described above. The reduction is carried out, in general, with cooling at a temperature of from 800C to o OC, preferably from 300C to 0 0C in tetrahydrofuran or diethyl ether. The other reducing agent is used with or without the protective group on amide proton on N l position in the compound II , and the reduction is carried out at a temperature of from 0 0C to the reflux temperature of the used solvent.As a solvent is used tetrahydrofuran, 1,2 dimethoxyethane or diethylether.When a combination mixture of sodium or potassium boron tetrahydride with lithium halide is used as a reducing agent, l,2 dimethoxyethane is preferably used as a solvent, and the reduction is carried out at the reflux temperature of the used solvent. The optimum molar ratio of the reducing agent to the compound II is from 1 to 10, preferably from 1 to 4. It is unexpected and unobvious that such a highly reactive reducing agent as lithium alminum tetrahydride or lithium boron tetrahydride can be employed to convert the ester group in the compound II into the alcohol group without cleaving the ss lactam ring. According to the present invention, the optically active compound I is easily obtained by the reduction of the optically active ester II as mentioned above. The optically active compound I is useful compound for the preparation of thienamycin or its analogs. For example, the 2 hydroxyethyl side chain atC 4 position can be easily converted to 4 carboxymethyl group by oxidation, with or without previous introduction of l hydroxyethyl group to C 3 position to yield an optically active 4 carboxymethyl 2 azetidinones represented by the formula III EMI5.1 wherein R3 is hydrogen atom, l hydroxyethyl, or l O protected oxyethyl group and R 1is the same as that described above, from which thienamycin and various analogs are easily derived by a conventional method. As the oxidant is used Jones reagent, pyridinium chlorochromate or pyridinium dichromate. A series of monocyclic 8 lactam antibiotics such as monobactams having acylamido group at C 3 position and sulfo group SO3H at N l position are also prepared from the compound I of the present invention by a conventional method. According to a preferred process for preparing the compound I , especially when R1is hydrogen atom andR2 is methyl, the solution of the compound II in freshly distilled dry tetrahydrofuran is added to a suspended mixture of lithium boron tetrahydride and freshly distilled dry tetrahydrofuran dropwise at room temperature. After completion of the addition the resultant reaction mixture is stirred at room temperature for about an hour. The time course of the reduction is monitored by thin layer chromatography TLC at intervals.When the starting compound cannot be detected on TLC, the reaction mixture is cooled to 0 0C and the excess reducing agent is carefully destroyed by addition of ethyl acetate or a mixture of acetic acid and methanol. The desired product I is isolated by a usual manner described in the following examples. The present invention is further illustrated by the following nonlimitative Examples. Example 1Preparation of 4R 2 hydroxyethyl 2 azetidinone I EMI6.1 To a suspended mixture of 0.75 g 34.4 mmoles of LiBH4 and 30 ml of freshly distilled dry tetrahydrofuran hereinafter referred to as THF was added a solution containing 3.0 g 20.9 mmoles of 4S methoxycarbonylmethyl 2 azetidinone II in 30 ml of freshly distilled dry THF dropwise at room temperature.The starting methyl ester II could not be detected onTLC in an hour s stirring at room temperature. A mixture of acetic acid and methanol 5 ml 3 ml was carefully added to the cooled reaction mixture to destroy the excess of LiBH4. The resultant reaction mixture was then filtered through Hyflo Super Cel and the cake was washed sequentially with 20 ml of ethyl acetate and 40 ml of methanol. The filtrate and washings were combined and condensed to 7.93 g of yellow syrup which was chromatographed on a column of silica gel Wakogel C 200 supplied from Wako Pure Chem. Ind. Ltd., 12 g, L D 210 mm 12 mm, benzene acetone 1 1, v v to give 2.17 g of off white crystals of the desired compound I 90 of the theoretical amount . mp 640 660C a 25 12.70 c 2.0, MeOH D TLC Merck silica gel F254 benzene acetone 1 2, v v Rf compound I 0.3 compound II 0.6 visualized with I2 vapor Example 2Preparation of 4R 2 hydroxyethyl 2 azetidinone I The procedure of Example 1 was repeated except that 4S benzyloxycarbonylmethyl 2 azetidinone was employed instead of 4S methoxycarbonylmethyl 2azetidinone to give off white crystals of the desired compound I 76 of the theoretical amount . Example 3Preparation of 4S 2 hydroxyethyl 2 azetidinone I The procedure of Example 1 was repeated except that 4R methoxycarbonylmethyl 2 azetidinone was employed instead of 4S methoxycarbonylmethyl 2 azetidinone to give off white crystals of the desired compound I 90 of the theoretical amount . 25 12.50 c 2.0, MeOH JD Example 4Preparation of 4R 2 hydroxyethyl 2 azetidinone I The procedure of Example 1 was repeated except that a mixture of 2 mole eq. of NaBH4 and 2 mole eq. LiCl was employed instead of LiBH4, 1,2 dimethoxyethane was employed instead of THF and the reaction mixture was stirred for 3 hours at the reflux temperature to give off white crystals of the desired compound I 74 of the theoretical amount . Example 5Preparation of 4R 2 hydroxyethyl 2 azetidinone I The procedure of Example 1 was repeated except that a complex of borane with dimethyl sulfide 2M THF solution, 1.1 mole eq. was employed instead of LiBH4 and the reaction mixture was stirred for 2 hours at the reflux temperature to give off white crystals of the desired compound I 61 of the theoretical amount . Example 6Preparation of 4R 2 hydroxyethyl l t butyldimethyl silyl 2 azetidinone I EMI8.1 To a mixture of 291 mg 7.66 mmoles of LiAlH4 and 30 ml of freshly distilled dry THF was added dropwise a solution containing 1.97 g 7.66 mmoles of 4S methoxyCarbonylmethyl l t butyldimethyl 2 azetidinone II in 20 ml of freshly distilled dry THF in the course of ten minutes, while the reaction vessel was cooled inDry Ice acetone bath and kept the inner temperature at 40 0C to 200C. The reaction mixture was then stirred at 30 0C for 30 minutes and the starting methyl ester II could not be detected on TLC. Then the reaction mixture was treated with the same manner as in Example 1 to give an yellow syrup which was chromatographed on silica gel column Wakogel C 200, 25 g, benzene acetone 95 5, v v to give 1.60 g of colorless syrup of the desired compound I 91 of the theoretical amount . D25 52.9 c 2.0, CHC13 TLC Merck silica gel F254 10 EtOH in CH2C12 n Hexane 1 1, v v Rf compound I 0.36 compound II 0.6