# Isoprenylcarboxylic acid containing composition for external use.

## Abstract
An isoprenylcarboxylic acid containing composition for external use is disclosed which contains antioxidant s select ed from the group consisting of butylated hydroxytoluene, bu tylated hydroxyanisole, ascorbic acid fatty acid esters, toco pherol and gallic acid esters, and or antioxidant s selected from the group consisting of ascorbic acid, sodium ascorbate, erythorbic acid, sodium erythorbate, cysteine, sodium hydro gensulfite and sodium metabisulfite, either alone or in combi nation.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A pharmaceutical composition for external use for the treatment of skin conditions comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a compound having the formulaEMI13.1 an effective amount of at least one antioxidant selected from the group consisting of butylated hydroxytoluene, butylated hydroxyanisole, ascorbic acid, fatty acid esters of ascorbic acid, tocopherol, gallic acid esters, sodium ascorbate, erythorbic acid, sodium erythorbate, cysteine, sodium hydrogensulfite, sodium metabisulfite and combinations thereof, effective to retard oxidation of said compound, and a pharmaceutically acceptable base. 2. A pharmaceutical composition as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said antioxidant is contained in said composition in an amount of 0.005 to 0.5 wt. , based on the total weight of said composition. 3. A pharmaceutical composition as claimed inClaim 1, wherein said base is selected from the group consisting of oily bases, fatty bases, aqueous bases and emulsion bases. 4. A pharmaceutical composition as claimed inClaim 1, wherein said base is an oily base or fatty base, and said antioxidant is selected from the group consisting of butylated hydroxytoluene, butylated hydroxyanisole, fatty acid esters of ascorbic acid, tocopherol and gallic acid esters. 5. A pharmaceutical composition as claimed inClaim 4, wherein said antioxidant is selected from the group consisting of ascorbic acid monostearate, ascorbic acid monopalmitate, and propyl gallate. 6. A pharmaceutical composition as claimed inClaim 1, wherein said base is an aqueous base, and said antioxidant is selected from the group consisting of ascorbic acid, sodium ascorbate, erythorbic acid, sodium erythorbate, cysteine, sodium hydrogensulfite and sodium metabisulfite 7. A pharmaceutical composition as claimed inClaim 1, wherein said base is an emulsion base consisting essentially of an aqueous phase and an oily or fatty phase, wherein said oily or fatty phase contains an antioxidant selected from the group consisting of butylated hydroxytoluene, butylated hydroxyanisole, fatty acid esters of ascorbic acid, tocopherol and gallic acid esters, and said aqueous base contains an antioxidant selected from the group consisting of ascorbic acid, sodium ascorbate, erythorbic acid, sodium erythorbate, cysteine, sodium hydrogensulfite and sodium metabisulfite. 8. A pharmaceutical composition as claimed inClaim 1, wherein the amount of said compound is in the range of 0.1 to 1.0 wt. , based on the total weight of said composition. 9. A pharmaceutical composition as claimed inClaim 8, wherein the amount of said antioxidant is in the range of 0.01 to 0.3 wt. , based on the total weight of said composition. 10. A pharmaceutical composition as claimed inClaim 4, wherein said oily base or fatty base is selected from the group consisting of white petrolatam, sesame oil, liquid paraffin, cetyl alcohol, oleyl alcohol, oleic acid and isopropyl myristate. 11. A pharmaceutical composition as claimed inClaim 6, wherein said aqueous base is an aqueous solution of a surfactant. 12. A pharmaceutical composition as claimed in Claim , wherein said surfactant is polyoxyethylenehardened castor oil. 13. A pharmaceutical composition as claimed inClaim 11, wherein said aqueous solution further contains a solvent for solubilizing said compound. 14. A pharmaceutical composition as claimed inClaim 12, wherein said aqueous solution further contains an effective amount of propylene glycol as a solvent for solubilizing said compound. 15. A pharmaceutical composition as claimed inClaim 11, wherein said isoprenylcarboxylic acid is dissolved in a small quantity of sesame oil and the resulting solution is added to said aqueous solution. 16. A pharmaceutical composition as claimed inClaim 7, wherein said emulsion further contains an effective amount of EDTA. 17. A pharmaceutical composition adapted for external use for the treatment of skin diseases, comprising 0.1 to 1.0 wt. of a compound of the formula EMI16.1 0.005 to 0.5 wt. of at least one antioxidant selected from the group consisting of butylated hydroxytoluene, butylated hydroxyanisole, ascorbic acid, fatty acid esters of ascorbic acid, tocopherol, gallic acid esters, sodium ascorbate, erythorbic acid, sodium erythorbate, cysteine, sodium hydrogensulfite, sodium metabisulfite and combinations thereof, effective to retard oxidation of said compound, and the balance is a pharmaceutically acceptable base.

## Description
ISOPRENYLCARBOXYLIC ACID CONTAINING COMPOSITION FOR EXTERNAL USE The present invention relates to an isoprenylcarboxylic acid containing composition for external topical use. The isoprenylcarboxylic acid employed in the composition according to the present invention is all trans 3,7,11,15 tetramethyl 2,4,6,10,14 hexadeca pentaenoic acid i of the following formula EMI1.1 The medicinal use of this compound as a carcinostatic substance or for treatment of psoriasis is expected.However, it is evident from its chemical structure that this compound is easily oxidizable. In fact, it is easily oxidized and its titer is reduced, as is shown in the experimental examples given below see control samples . Particularly when the foregoing compound is incorporated in a composition to be used as a topical drug for treatment of psoriasis, it is likely to undergo oxidation and, therefore, it becomes quite difficult to attain the intended medicinal effects. After investigations made under these circumstances for the purpose of finding antioxidants that can be incorporated in a composition for external use containing an isoprenylcarboxylic acid, according to the present invention, which antioxidants are capable of preventing or retarding oxidation of an isoprenylcarboxylic acid, the inventors have found that antioxidants specified according to the present invention are capable of attaining such effects. The present invention has been completed on the basis of this finding. An object of the present invention is, therefore, to provide a composition for external use containing an isoprenylcarboxylic acid according to the invention in which the acid can be maintained in a stable state. Figure 1 is a graph showing the changes in the residual amount of an isoprenylcarboxylic acid, according to the present invention, with the passing of time, as obtained in Experimental Example 1. Figure 2 is a graph showing the changes in residual amount of an isoprenylcarboxylic acid, according to the present invention, versus the concentration of the antioxidant used, as obtained in Experimental Example 1. Figure 3 is a graph showing the changes in residual amount of an isoprenylcarboxylic acid, according to the present invention, with the passing of time, as obtained in Experimental Example 2. The present invention will now be described. The composition of the present invention is to be applied externally to the skin. As a base for the in invention composition, there can be used an oil fatty, aqueous or emulsion type base of any conventional type useful for the preparation of medicated ointmentsa creams, lotions and gels. When an oily or fatty base is used, the isoprenylcarboxylic acid according to the present invention is dissolved in a base, such as white petrolatum, sesame oil, liquid paraffin, cetyl alcohol, oleyl alcohol, oleic acid or isopropyl myristate, to obtain a composition for external use, such as an ointment.When an aqueous base is used, the isoprenylcarboxylic acid according to the present invention is solubilized directly in an aqueous base, such as an aqueous solution of a surfactant, or after dissolving the same in a small quantity of sesame oil, to obtain a composition for external use. Preferred examples of aqueous bases usable in the present invention are an aqueous solution containing a surfactant, such as polyoxyethylene hardened castor oil, and such an aqueous solution containing a surfactant mixed with a solubilizing solvent, such as propylene glycol.When an emulsion type base is used, the isoprenylcarboxylic acid according to the present invention is dissolved in both the oily and aqueous phases to form a composition for external use such as a cream, lotion or gel. It has been found. that when the isoprenylcarboxylic acid according to the present invention is dissolved in an oily or fatty base, the effects of the present invention can be obtained by using one or more antioxidants selected from the group consisting of butylated hydroxytoluene, butylated hydroxyanisole, ascorbic acid fatty acid esters, tocopherol and gallic acid esters. As ascorbic acid fatty acid esters, ascorbic acid monostearate and ascorbic acid monopalmitate are readily commercially available and can be advantageously used. As a gallic acid ester, propyl gallate is preferably used. When the isoprenylcarboxylic acid according to the present invention is solubilized in an aqueous base, the effects of the present invention can be obtained by using one or more antioxidants selected from the group consisting of ascorbic acid, sodium ascorbate, erythorbic acid, sodium erythorbate, cysteine, sodium hydrogensulfite and sodium metabisulfite. It has also been found that when the isoprenylcarboxylic acid according to the present invention is dissolved and solubilized in an emulsion type base, the effects of the present invention can be obtained by using a combination of the antioxidants generally used when the isoprenylcarboxylic acid is dissolved in the oily or fatty base and those generally used when the isoprenylcarboxylic acid is solubilized in the aqueous base. The amount of the antioxidant s varies depending on the amount of isoprenylcarboxylic acid used according to the present invention. Generally, the amount of said isoprenylcarboxylic acid in the composition for external use is 0.1 to 1.0 wt. , although the present invention is not limited to this range. The total amount of the antioxidant s should be an amount in the range of 0.005 to 0.5 wt. , preferably 0.01 to 0.3 wt. , in order to obtain the effects of the present invention when the foregoing amount of the isoprenylcarboxylic acid is usedHowever, the amount of the antioxidant or antioxidants is not limited to this range, in the present invention. The composition of the present invention can be prepared as follows. When an oily or fatty base is used, a vessel is purged with N2 gas, the base and the selected antioxidant are then charged therein and are melted by heating to obtain a homogeneous mixture, then the isoprenylcarboxylic acid according to the present invention is added thereto, then the resulting mixture is stirred and immediately cooled, and the vessel is again purged with N2 gas. When an aqueous base is used, a surfactant, such as polyoxyethylene hardened castor oil, and a small quantity of, for example, sesame oil, are charged in a vessel while the vessel is continuously purged with N2 gas, the mixture is then heated to obtain a homogeneous mixture, the isoprenylcarboxylic acid according to the present invention is added thereto and the resulting mixture is stirred. Then, a previously prepared solution of the selected antioxidant in water is added thereto to solubilize the same, the obtained solution is cooled immediately thereafter, and again the vessel is purged with N2 gas. Nihen an emulsion type base is used, the surfactant, the oily or fatty base and a first antioxidant are charged into a vessel while the vessel is being continuously purged with N2 gas, and the mixture is heated to obtain a homogeneous mixture. The isoprenylcarboxylic acid according to the present invention is then added thereto and the resulting mixture is stirred. A second antioxidant and desirably an aqueous solution ofEDTA are then added thereto to produce an emulsion. The obtained emulsion is immediately cooled and the vessel is again purged with N2 gas. The effects of the present invention will be illustrated by the following experimental examples. In the examples, the term percent means percent by weight. The term residual amount means the measured amount of the isoprenylcarboxylic acid x 100 .starting amount of the isoprenylcarboxylic acid x 100. In the examples mentioned below, HCO 60 is polyoxyethylene 60 moles hydrogenated castor oil. Cetornacrogol is plyoxyethylene monocetyl ether. tiglyol is a fatty acid triglyceride produced by Dynamit Nobel Ltd. Carbopol is a carboxyvinyl polymer produced by Goodrich Chem.,Corp. Procol is propylen glycol. Samples and Methods Four types of samples were prepared using oleic acid, oleyl alcohol, isopropyl myristate and sesame oil, respectively, as the oily or fatty bases. The compound 3,7,11,15 tetramethyl 2,4,6,10,14 hexadecapentaenoic acid l, hereinafter referred to as ACT,.was added separately to each base to obtain 0.4 w w solutions to be used as samples. The samples were charged into ampoules and were heated to 700C, for various times. The residual amounts of the starting isoprenylcarboxylic acid in the ampoules were measured at various times.The determination was effected by diluting the samples with chloroform and determining the W absorption at 321 nm. In a second test, oleyl alcohol was used as the oily base and 0.2 w w of the foregoing isoprenylcarboxylic acid was added thereto to prepare a base composition. Various concentrations of the antioxidants selected from the group consisting of butylated hydroxytoluene, a vitamin E tocopherol mixture and ascorbic acid monostearate were dissolved into separate samples of the base composition. The samples were charged into ampoules and heated to 700C for 18 h. The residual amounts of the starting isoprenylcarboxylic acid for different concentrations of the antioxidants were determined in the same manner as described above.Results The results are shown in Figures 1 and 20 InFigure 1, the lines with the symbolsEMI6.1 show the changes in the residual amounts obtained when oleic acid, oleyl alcohol, isopropyl myristate and sesame oil were used. resDectivelv. in the first test described above. In Figure 2,EMI6.2 show the residual amounts obtained when no antioxidant was used and when butylated hydroxytoluene, the vitaminE mixture and ascorbic acid monostearate were used, respectively. The effects of the present invention obtained when an oily base is used are evident fromFigures 1 and 2.Experimental Example 2Samples and Methods Samples K through P were prepared according to the recipes shown in Table 1. These samples were prepared by heating sesame oil, oleyl alcohol and HCO 60 to 850 C, and then adding, if called for, butylated hydroxytoluene or ascorbic acid monostearate thereto, stirring the mixture for 5 min, adding thereto the same isoprenylcarboxylic acid as used in Experimental Example 1, and stirring the mixture again for 10 min. Then an aqueous solution heated to 900C, which was prepared previously by dissolving EDTA and, for some samples, ascorbic acid, in water, was added, and the resulting mixture was cooled and emulsified immediately thereafter.Then, the samples were heated to 700C and residual amounts of the isoprenylcarboxylic acid, with the passing of time, were determined by means of HPLC. Table 1EMI8.1 tb SEP SEP Sample SEP SEP tb SEP K SEP L SEP M SEP N SEP O SEP tb Starting SEP matt tb ACT SEP 0.2 SEP SEP n tb Sesame SEP oil SEP 1.0 SEP n SEP n SEP n SEP n tb Oleyl SEP alcohol SEP 1.0 SEP SEP .. SEP .. SEP n tb HCO 60 SEP 2.0 SEP n SEP n SEP n SEP n tb BHT SEP SEP 0.05 SEP SEP SEP 0.05 SEP tb Ascorbic SEP acid SEP mono tb stearate SEP SEP SEP 0.05 SEP SEP SEP 0.05 tb Ascorbic SEP acid SEP SEP SEP SEP 0.1 SEP 0.1 SEP 0.1 tb EDTA 2Na SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 tb Water SEP bal tb SEP ance SEP .. SEP tb BHT Butylated HydroxytolueneResults The results are shown in Figure 3.In Figure 3, the lines connecting symbolsEMI8.2 respectively, show the changes in the residual amounts of samples K, L, M, N, 0 and P, respectively, over time.The effects of the present invention are evident fromFigure 3. The following examples will further illustrate the present invention.Example 1 0.2 of the same isoprenylcarboxylic acid used inExperimental Example 1, hereinafter referred to as ACTt 3 of white petrolatum, 12 of liquid paraffin, 10 of stearyl alcohol, 2 of Cetomacrogol and 0.052 of butylated hydroxytoluene were heated to 750C to obtain a melt which will be referred to as component A.Separately, 0.0258 of methylparaben, 0.015 of propylparaben, 5.0 of propylene glycol, 0.04 of ascorbic acid and 0.05 of EDTA 4Na were dissolved in water to make 100 . The solution was heated to 750C to obtain component B. Component B was added slowly to componentA under stirring in an N2 gas stream to obtain an emulsion. The emulsion was treated in a conventional manner to obtain a hydrophilic cream. In this example, percentages are by weight based on the total weight of the hydrophilic cream. A control, the same hydrophilic cream as described above but not containing butylated hydroxytoluene and ascorbic acid, was also prepared. The product of this example and the control were stored at 450C for 3 months and the residual amounts of ACT were examined.The obtained values for the control and the product of this example were 82.4 and 97,7 , respectively.Example 2 0.2 of ACT, 0.4 of Miglyol, 4.0 of polyoxyethylene hardened castor oil 60 and 0.05 of ascorbic acid monostearate were heated to 800C to obtain a melt which will be referred to as component A. Separately, 0.05 of erythorbic acid, 0.05 wt. of EDTA 2Na, 0.1 of mthylparaben and 10.0 of propylene glycol were dissolved in water to make 100 . The solution was heated to 800C to obtain component B. Component B was added to component A under stirring in N2 gas stream to prepare a lotion in a conventional manner. The percentages for this example are by weight, based on the total weight of the lotion. A control, the same lotion as described above but not containing ascorbic acid monostearate and erythorbic acid, was also prepared. The product of this example and the control were stored at 450C for 3 months and the residual amounts of ACT were examined. The obtained values for the control and the product of this example were 78.4 and 95.7g, respectively.Example 3 5.0 of nhydrous lanolin, 3.0 of paraffin, 5.08 of stearyl alcohol, 0.1 of vitamin E, 0.2 of butylated hydroxytoluene and white petrolatum to make 100 were heated to 800C to obtain a melt. 1.0 of ACT was added to the melt. The mixture was stirred and then cooled to obtain an ointment in a conventional manner. In this example, percentages are by weight based on the total weight of the ointment. A control, the same ointment as described above but not containing vitamin E and butylhydroxytoluene, was also prepared. The product of this example and the control were stored at 400C for 3 months and the residual amounts of ACT were measured. The obtained values for the control and the product of this example were 87.8 and 98.5 , respectively.Example 4 0.2 of ACT and 0.05 of ascorbic acid monopalmitate were dissolved in 0.6 of isopropyl myristate, 0.5 of polyoxyethylene oleyl alcohol ether and 25.0 of isopropyl alcohol to obtain component A. Separately, 0.04 of phytic acid and 0.05 of ascorbic acid were dissolved in 5.0 of propylene glycol and water to make 100 .1.0 of Carbopol 934 was added to the solution to obtain a homogeneous dispersion which will be referred to as component B. Component A was added to componentB. The mixture was adjusted to pH 6.5 by adding sodium hydroxide under stirring. The mixture was stirred in an N2 gas stream to obtain a gel. In this example, percentages are by weight based on the total weight of the gel. A control the same gel as described above but not containing ascorbic acid monopalmitate and ascorbic acid, was also prepared. The product of this example and the control were stored at 400C for 3 months and the residual amounts of ACT in the control and the product of this example were measured which showed that the residual amounts were 66.5 and 93.8 , respectively.Example 5 0.2 of ACT, 0.05t of butylated hydroxyanisole, 24 of stearyl alcohol, 248 of white petrolatum and 5 of polyoxyethylene monostearate were heated to 800C to obtain a melt which will be referred to as component A.Separately, 12 of Procol and 0.05 of sodium hydrogensulfite were dissolved in water to make 100 . The solution was heated to 800C to obtain component B.Component B was added to component A under stirring in an N2 gas stream to obtain a hydrophilic ointment in a conventional manner. In this example, percentages are by weight based on the total weight of the hydrophilic ointment. A control, the same hydrophilic ointment as described above but not containing butylated hydroxyanisole and sodium hydrogensulfite, was also prepared.The product of this example and the control were stored at 450C for 3 months and the residual amounts ofACT in the control and the product of this example were measured which showed that these residual amounts were 85.6 and 98.5 , respectively.Example 6 0.2 of ACT, 1 of stearyl alcohol, 30 of liquid paraffin, 4 of sorbitan monostearate, 0.03 of butylated hydroxytoluene and 0.02t of propyl gallate were heated to 80 C to obtain a melt, which will be referred to as component A. Separately, 4 of polyoxyethylene sorbitan monostearate, 0.05 of EDTA 2Na, 0.15 of hydroxyethylcellulose and 0.05 of cysteine hydrochloride were dissolved in water to make 100 .The solution was heated to 800C to obtain componentB. Component B was added to component A under stirring in an N2 gas stream to obtain a lotion in a conventional manner. In this example, percentages are by weight based on the total weight of the lotion. A control, the same lotion as described above but not containing butylated hydroxytoluene, propyl gallate and cysteine hydrochloride, was also prepared. The product of this example and the control were stored at 450C for 3 months and the residual amounts of ACT in the control and the product of this example were measured which showed that these residual amounts were 72.0 and 95.P, respectively. The entire contents of US patent application No.249 245, filed March 30, 1981 DE OS 31 13 149 , are incorporated herein by reference. That application describes processes for preparing all trans 3,7,11,15 tetramethyl 2,4 ,6 ,10 ,14 hexadecapentaenoic acid l and the utility thereof for the treatment of skin diseases with keratinization, allergic and inflammatory skin diseases, reduction of the size of papillomata and for cancer. The entire contents of U. S. patent application Serial No. 260 870, filed May 6, 1981, EPC application No. 81 109 393.9 , also are incorporated herein by reference.