# Flaked salt composition and process of preparing the same.

## Abstract
A substantially homogeneous flaked salt composition com prising sodium chloride and potassium chloride is provided wherein the concentration on a relative proportion basis of sodium chloride and potassium chloride in the flaked composition ranges from about 30 weight sodium chloride and 70 weight potassium chloride to about 70 weight sodium chloride and 30 weight percent potassium chloride. The flaked composition is obtained by a process which comprises first pulverizing to a particle size smaller than about 70 mesh U.S. Standard Sieve Series a majority of the particles of an admixture of sodium chloride and potassium chloride containing on a relative propor tion basis from about 30 to about 70 weight of sodium chloride and from about 70 to about 30 weight of potassium chloride and compacting said pulverized admixture into flakes. The flakes may then be screened to provide various particle sizes of flaked product. The flaked salt composition so prepared is more homogene ous, coarser, lighter in weight, more cakeresistant, attrition resistant, and more liquid absorptive and flowable than a flaked sodium chloride potassium chloride composition of the same NaCl KCl concentration prepared without said preliminary grind ing step.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for making a substantiallyhomogeneous flaked composition comprising WaCl and KCl which process is characterised in that it comprises A. admixing NaCl and KCl, B. pulverizing the majority of the particles of said admixture to a particle size smaller than 70 mesh U.S. Standard Sieve Series, and C. compacting said pulverized admixture into flakes. 2. The process claimed in claim 1 characterised in that the concentration of NaCl and KCl in the composition ranges from 30 NaCl and 70 KCl by weight to 70 NaCl and 30 KCl by weight. 3. The process claimed in claim 2, characterised in that the concentration of NaCl and KCl in the composition ranges from 4070 NaCl and 6Q5fo KCl to 60 NaCl and 40 KCl and is preferably substantially 50 NaCl and 50 KCl by weight. 4. The process of any of the preceding claims characterised in that the thickness of the flakes ranges from 0.01 inch to 0.025 inch. 5. The process of any of the preceding claims characterised in that the flakes are ground and screened into various particle size ranges for use with a variety of snack foods. 6. A substantially homogeneous salt composition in flaked form characterised in that it is obtained by pulverizing to a particle size smaller than 70 mesh U.S. Standard SieveSeries a majority of the particles of an admixture of sodium chloride and potassium chloride containing on a relative proportion basis from 30 to 70 weight percent of sodium chloride and from 70 to 30 weight percent of potassium chloride and compacting said pulverised admixture into flakes. 7. The composition claimed in claim 6, wherein on a relative proportion basis the admixture of sodium chloride and potassium chloride contains from 40 to 60 percent by weight of sodium chloride and from 60 to 40 percent by weight of potassium chloride, and is preferably substantially 50 percent by weight of sodium chloride and 50 percent by weight of potassium chloride. 8. The composition claimed in either of claims 6 or 7, characterised in that the thickness of the flakes ranges from about 0.01 to about 0.25 inch. 9. A substantially homogeneous salt composition in flake form characterised in that it is obtained by separately pulverizing a majority of the particles of sodium chloride and potassium chloride each to a particle size smaller than about 70 mesh, admixing the pulverized sodium chloride and potassium chloride in the proportions on a relative weight basis of from 30 to 70 weight percent of sodium chloride and from 70 to 30 weight percent of potassium chloride to form a substantially homogeneous admixture, and compacting said admixture into flakes.

## Description
FLAKED SALT COMPOSITION AND PROCESS OF PREPARING THE SHAME This invention relates to a substantially homogeneous flaked composition comprising sodium and potassium chlorides. Salted snacks such as pretzels, crackers, fat fried chips, and roasted nuts contribute a significant quantity of sodium in the diet. As a result of recent pressures for dietary reduction in sodium intake and of pressures towards sodium labelling of foot items, snack manufacturers have become interested in reducing the sodium level in their products. To date, little progress has been made toward substantial lessening the sodium content of salted snacks.The reason in major part appears to be lack of alternatives rather than of interest. The mild saline flavour provided by sodium chloride salt topping is of crucial importance to consumer acceptance of these snack products. Unsalted or undersalted snacks are simply too bland, and substitutes such as potassium chloride, or potassium chloride together with various organic acids, are unacceptably bitter or tart. Furthermore, physical form is of equal importance. Salt substitutes are generally not made available in the variety of sizes and forms necessary for snack topping applications. A relatively coarse particle is required for optimum enhancement of appearance on pretzels and crackers and relatively fine irregularlyshaped flaked particles are desirable for chip and nut toppings to assure adequate adherence and rapid solubility for quickly sensed salty flavour. United States Patent Re 27,981 sets forth taste panel studies which demonstrate, for example, that a 1 1 mixture of potassium chloride and sodium chloride may be substituted on an equal weight basis for sodium chloride, with a resultant 50g0 decrease in the sodium level. A 1 1 granular mixture of potassium chloride and sodium chloride is now marketed under the trademark MORMON LITE SALT as a retail reduced sodium salt product for use in the home. However, this mixture of granular components is not in a physical form acceptable for use in snack toppings. Therefore, a flake type product is required. In addition to the above mentioned snack food uses, a reduced sodium flake type product would have a variety of other applications. Coarse grades are desirable for vat salting of cheddar and Colby cheese, for dry curing of meats by surface salting, and for koshering of beef and poultry. Coarse and medium grades are used for seasoned salt condiments and for meat tenderizer compositions. Fine and extra fine grades are blended into cake mixes, self raising flour, breadings bread mixes and batter mixes. A flake type form of sodium chloride can be produced by passing granular sodium chloride crystals, commercially available in the minus 30 to plus 70 mesh screen size range characteristic of table salt, between smooth faced opposed rollers maintained under high pressure, thereby compacting the salt into a flake form suitable for use in a variety of specialized applications, including snack toppings. The mesh screen sizes referred to herein are those of the U.S. Standard Sieve Series. The terminology minus 30 plus 70 mesh , also indicated as 30 70 , refers to particles small enough to pass through a 30 mesh screen 30 but coarse enough to be retained on a 70 mesh screen 70 . However, as is demonstrated in the examples hereinafter described, when a 1 1 mixture of potassium chloride and sodium chloride in the aforesaid usual particle mesh size range was subjected to the same flaking, i.e. compacting, process, it was found that the resultant flaked product, when screened into its several particle size fractions, was not homogeneous throughout all of the particle size fractions with respect to the 1 1 ratio of NaCl KCl. That is, the sodium chloride component of the admixture was disproportionately higher or lower in certain of the finer smaller screen fractions than in other fractions. This becomes a substantial problem in a production operation, since certain screen fractions are not in demand. Therefore, for a practical production process, these less desirable fractions must be circulated back into the flaking process to produce other grades, generally coarser flakes. It is apparent that recycling sodium chloride enriched or deficient fines into the flaking process will cause an imbalance in the 1 1 ratio of sodium chloride and potassium chloride and make the operation difficult to control with respect to maintaining a homogeneous final product. In addition, if a 1 1NaCl KCl mixture flaked product is to be made available commercially, it is necessary that each screen fraction of the flaked product be substantially of the same composition, i.e. a mixture of NaCl and KCl in a 1 1 ratio.As the data of Example 1 hereinafter set forth clearly indicate, these conditions cannot be met by feeding the normal granular 30 70 mesh sodium chloride and potassium chloride particles to a flaking operation. Further, in addition to the requirement of substantial compositional homogeneity, the following attributes of a flaked salt composition are also required 1. Sufficient coarseness for ease of application and adherence to the surface of snack foods. 2. Relatively low bulk density for homogeneous admixture with other food ingredients which also have a fairly low bulk density. 3. Relatively high resistance to caking under humid atmospheric conditions. 4. fairly high resistance to attrition under customary conditions of handling. 5. Fairly high retention of liquids, indicative of effective mixing with liquid ingredients in blended food products. 6. Good flowability for efficient handling in commercial manufacturing processes. It is, therefore, an object of the prevent invention to solve the problem of variable composition with varying particle size of a flaked sodium chloride potassium chloride composition and to provide a flaked NaCl KCl salt composition which is substantially homogeneous in all screened fractions of various particle size ranges. It is another object of this invention to provide a homogeneous flaked sodium chloride potassium chloride salt composition which exhibits desirable coarseness, relatively low bulk density, caking resistance, attrition resistance, liquid absorption and flowability. It is another object of this invention to provide a process for preparing said homogeneous flaked sodium chloride potassium chloride salt composition. The foregoing objects are attained by a salt composition in flake form characterised in that it is obtained by pulverizing to a particle size smaller than 70 mesh a majority of the particles of an admixture of sodium chloride and potassium chloride containing on a relative proportion basis from 30 to 70 weight percent of sodium chloride and from 70 to 30 weight percent of potassium chloride, and compacting said pulverized admixture into flakes. The flakes are then screened into various particle sizes. The salt composition of the present invention may also be obtained by separately grinding a majority of the particles of each of the sodium chloride and potassium chloride components to a particle size smaller than 70 mesh, admixing the ground sodium chloride and potassium chloride particles until homogeneous and compacting said admixture into flakes. The present invention also relates to a process for making a homogeneous flaked salt composition comprising sodium chloride and potassium chloride, which process is characterised in that it comprises thoroughly admixing sodium chloride and potassium chloride in the relative proportions of from 30 to 70 weight percent of sodium chloride and from 70 to 30 weight percent of potassium chloride, pulverizing the majority of the particles of said admixture to a size smaller than 70 mesh U.S.Standard Sieve Series, and compacting said pulverized admixture into flakes. The present process may also be carried out by separately grining the majority of the particles of sodium chloride and of potassium chloride to a size smaller than said 70 mesh, thoroughly admixing the ground particles and compacting the admixture into flakes. In the preferred embodiment of the present invention, the homogeneous flaked salt composition, prepared as described, comprises on a weight basis 50 weight percent of sodium chloride and 50 weight percent of potassium chloride. For the purpose of snack toppings, a 0.010 inch thickness of flaked product is generally acceptable.A substantially thinner flake would be too fragile and subject to degradation in handling, whereas a substantially thicker flake would lack the large surface area and quick dissolving properties desired in a topping. The one exception is pretzel salt , which is provided in a distinctly greater particle size. This large salt crystal gives a desirable flavour huskiness, or bite, which cannot be duplicated by smaller sized salt particles.For this product, a 0.020 inch or greater flake thickness is required. Based upon these product needs, the flaked products of the present invention were chosen at about 0.010 inch and 0.020 inch thickness, although it is understood that the flake thickness may be varied as desired to suit specific needs and that it was not possible to control the compacting, i.e. flaking machinery utilised to precisely and consistently product exactly the desired flake thickness. As previously stated, feeding a 1 1 admixture of the normal particle size granular forms of sodium chloride and potassium chloride to compacting equipment results in a flaked product which is not homogeneous in the various screened fractions of the compacted flaked product. It was surprising and unexpected to discover that the problem of non homogeneity can be solved by first comminuting the admixture of sodium chloride and potassium ohloride, or each component separately, such that a majority of the particles of the admixture or of each component is reduced to a size small enough to pass through a 70 mesh screen, and then subjecting the thus finely divided material to a compacting process to produce a flaked product. The flaked product may then be screened into several particle size fractions for use in various food items. It was also surprising and unexpected to find that the flaked salt composition of the present invention, when compared with a flaked product prepared without pregrinding to a 70 mesh size, displayed the following desirable attributes in addition to the primary property of substantial homogeneity throughout the various particle size ranges 1. Coarser flakes, indicative of a more efficient flaking process, as shown by the screen analysis of the final product.2. Lower bulk density, which is desirable for mixing with other food ingredients which also have a fairly low bulk density.3. A reduced caking tendency, as shown in caking eval uations after five humidity cycles.4. Less attrition so that it will hold up better in handling prior to its end usage.5. Better adsorption and retention of liquids, indicative of more effective mixing with liquid ingredients in blended products.6. Greater flowability, as indicated by flow properties when the materials are allowed to fall on a slanted board. This increased flowability is desirable in handling of a product in commercial usage. For a more complete understanding of the present invention, reference is now made to the following specific examples illustrating the improved flaked salt compositions of this invention. EXAMPLE 1Commercially available granular sodium chloride and potassium chloride were each subjected to a screen analysis using U.S. StandardSieve Series screens. The mesh size distributions obtained are set forth in TABLE I.TABLE IEMI8.1 tb SEP SEP BY SEP WEIGHT tb Screen tb Fraction SEP KCl SEP haCl SEP tb 20 SEP Mesh SEP 0.0 SEP 0.0 tb 20 SEP SEP 30 SEP 0.7 SEP 6.0 tb 30 SEP SEP 40 SEP 18.1 SEP 52.8 tb 40 SEP SEP 50 SEP 38.3 SEP 32.1 tb 50 SEP SEP 70 SEP 30.3 SEP 6.9 tb 70 SEP SEP 100 SEP 10.8 SEP 1.3 tb 100 SEP Mesh SEP 1.9 SEP 0.7 tb Total SEP 100.1 tb Deviation from 100.0 results fran rounding of nutters. It is seen that the major proportion of the distribution of particle sizes of these granular materials is in the 30 70 mesh fractions with only a small percentage of the particles smaller than 70 mesh, as is evident from the following summation of the above results BY WEIGHT Screen Fraction KC1 NaCl 30 70 86.7 91.8 70 Mesh 12.7 2.0An approximately 1 1 NaCl KCl homogeneous admixture of the same granular sodium chloride and potassium chloride hereinbefore described was compacted by passing the mixture between the SEtoOth faced opposed rollers of a large ccmpactor and of a small compator respectively under high pressure to provide a flake form suitable for a variety of specialized applications, including snack toppings.The flaked product of each compactor was then screened into its several fractions and the sodium chloride content of each fraction of each compactor was determined. The results obtained are set forth in TABLE II. TABLE II NaCl By Weight Difference is KC1 Large Compactor Small Compactor Screen size Screenings NaCl Screen size Screenings NaCl 6 Mesh 8.2 52 6 Mesh 4.9 55 6 12 6.2 54 6 12 9.8 55 12 20 10.3 62 12 20 20.7 54 20 40 33.8 64 20 40 21.3 50 40 70 29.9 28 40 70 26.7 44 70 Mesh 11.6 46 70 Mesh 16.6 70Total 100.0 100.0 The term Screenings means the by weight of the total sample found in the particular screen fraction.It is apparent from the foregoing that the desired 1 1 NaCl KCl composition of the original mixture is not maintained in the various fractions. This lack of homogeneity is totally unacceptable since it is necessary that each screen fraction of the product conforms substantially to the original ccoposition. EXAMPLE 2 A portion of the 1 1 NaCl KCl admixture of Example 1 was pulverized such that a majority of the particles was substantially of a 70 mesh size. The ground admixture had the following particle size distribution EMI11.1 tb SEP Screen SEP traction SEP zdo SEP By SEP Weight tb SEP 20 SEP Mesh SEP 0.0 tb SEP 20 SEP SEP 30 SEP 0.0 tb SEP 30 SEP SEP 40 SEP 2.1 tb SEP 40 SEP SEP 50 SEP 9.4 tb SEP 50 SEP SEP 70 SEP 14.5 tb SEP 70 SEP SEP 100 SEP 17.8 tb 100 SEP Mesh SEP 56.2 tb SEP Total SEP 100.0 tb SEP 70 SEP Mesh SEP 74.0 tb The statement substantially 70 mesh as used herein means that a major proportion of the material is 70 mesh. The term Preground , as used herein, means that theNaCl KCl admixture was pulverized to a particle size substantially 70 mesh, then compacted to form a flaked product, which flaked product was then screened into its various particle sizes. The term Unground means that there was no preliminary grinding before compaction into flakes. As in Example 1, the preground substantially 70 mesh admixture of NaCl and KCl was fed separately to a large compactor and also to a small compactor to form flakes. The flaked product was screened and the different mesh size portions were analyzed for sodium content.The results set forth in TABLE III show the substantial homogeneity of the several mesh size fractions resulting from compaction after pregrinding the NaCl KCl admixture to substantially 70 mesh. TABLE IIIFLAKED PRODUCT OF PULVERIZED 70 Mesh MIXTURE OF NaCl KCl LARGE COMPACTOR SMALL COMPACTORScreen o Screen jo Size Screenings NaCl Size Screenings NaCl 6 Mesh 24.4 55 6 Mesh 10.2 56 6 12 8.8 55 6 12 11.3 55 12 20 4.7 55 12 20 14.1 55 20 40 6.8 58 20 40 10.7 58 40 70 24.8 54 40 70 24.2 53 70 Mesh 30.5 52 70 Mesh 29.5 54Total 100.0 Total 100.0 It is informative to analyze the results of Example 1 and Example 2 on the basis of the weighted mean of the percent of NaCl in each screen fraction of each flaked product. The weighted mean is derived by weighting each percentage NaCl value obtained based upon the relative abundance of that screened fraction.The following tabulation illustrates how a weighted mean of 54 all screen fractions was obtained for the percent NaCl of the preground and flaked product of Example 2 LargeCompactor . Screen CalculatedFraction of Weighted MeanFlaked Product Screenings NaCl Contribution 6 Mesh 24.4 55 13.42 6 12 8.8 55 4.84 12 20 4.7 55 2.58 20 40 6.8 58 3.94 40 70 24.8 54 13.39 70 Mesh 30.5 52 15.86Total 100.0 Weighted mean 54.03 NaCl Obtained by multiplying screenings by NaCl. Obtained by summing the calculated weighted mean NaCL for each of the screen fractions.Similarly, a weighted mean of 49 was obtained for the percent NaCl for all the screenings of the unground flaked product of Example 1 Large Compactor a weighted mean of 53 for the unground flaked product of Example 1 Small Compactor and a weighted mean of 55 for the preground flaked product of Example 2 Small Cbmpactor . A comparison of the results of Example 1 and Example 2 is set forth in TABLE IN. TABLE IV NaCl By Weight Difference is KCl EXAMPLE 1 ALL UNGROUND EXAMPLE 2 ALL PREGROUND Screnn Fraction Large Small Large Small of Flaked Product Compactor Compactor Compactor Compactor 6 Mesh 52 55 55 56 6 12 54 55 55 55 12 20 62 54 55 55 20 40 64 50 58 58 40 70 28 44 54 53 70 Mesh 46 70 52 54 Weighted mean all screen fractions 49 53 54 55 It is then illuminating to express deviation from the weighted mean for each screen fraction, as shown inTABLE V. TABLE V NaCl by Weight Deviation from Weighted Mean EXAMPLE 1 ALL UNGROUND EXAMPLE 2 ALL PREGROUND Screnn Fraction Large Small Large Small of Flaked Product Compactor Compactor Compactor Compactor 6 Mesh 13 2 , l 6 12 5 2 1 0 12 20 13 1 0 20 40 15 3 4 2 40 70 21 9 0 2 70 mesh 3 27 2 1Total Deviation ê 878 828 23 10Standard Deviation . 13.3 12.9 2.1 1.4 The Total Deviation ê and Standard Deviation are defined as follows Total Deviation ê is the sum of the squares of the individual deviations. Standard Deyiation is the square root of the number obtained by dividing the Total Deviation 2 by one less than the number of values determined. The relatively small Standard. Deviations obtained for the Preground products as compared to the relatively high Standard Deviations for the Unground products attest to the relative homogeneity of the flaked pompoeitions of the present invention. COARSENESS OF FLAKE The Screenings of the unground compacted NaCl KCl admixture of TABLE II and the Screenings of the preground compacted admixture of TABLE I iI are set forth for compoarative purposes in TABLE VI. TABLE VIEMI16.1 tb SEP Large SEP Compactor SEP Small SEP Compactor SEP tb SEP SEP Screenings SEP SEP Screenings tb Screen tb Size SEP Unground SEP Preground SEP Unground SEP Preground tb 6 SEP flesh SEP 8.2 SEP 24.4 SEP 4.9 SEP 10.2 tb 6 SEP SEP 12 SEP 6.2 SEP 8.8 SEP 9.8 SEP 11.3 tb 12 SEP SEP 20 SEP 10.3 SEP 4.7 SEP 20.7 SEP 14.1 tb 20 SEP SEP 40 SEP 33.8 SEP 6.8 SEP 21.3 SEP 10.7 tb 40 SEP SEP 70 SEP SEP 29.9 SEP 24.8 SEP 26.7 SEP 24.2 tb 70 SEP Mesh SEP 11.6 SEP 30.5 SEP 16.6 SEP 29.5 tb 100.0 SEP 100.0 SEP 100.0 SEP 100.0 tb Coarse flakes are defined herein as those which are of a size larger than 12 mesh. It is noted from TABLE VI that there is a marked increase in the percent of coarse flakes in the instance of the preground flaked product when compared with the unground flaked product, as is shown in TABLE VII. TABLE VII large Compactor Small Corrpactor Screenings ScreeningsScreenSize Unground Preground Unground Preground 6 Mesh 8.2 24.6 4.9 10.2 6 12 Mesh 6.2 8.8 9.8 11.3 12 Mesh Total 14.4 33.3 14.7 21.5The percentage increase in flake coarseness 12 mesh fraction for the Preground compositions over the Unground is shown in the following comparison Unground Preground IncreaseLarge Compactor 14.4 33.2 131 Small Compactor 14.7 21.5 46 33.2 14.4 x 100 131 14.4 21.5 14.7 x 100 46 14.7 EXAMPLE 3The e bulk density of each screen fraction of the flaked products prepared fran the unground and from the preground admixtures of NaCl and KCl described in Examples 1 and 2 was determined as follows BULK DENSITY A. Loose Density A tared Berzelius tall form, no spout beaker of known volume was filled with sample by means of a funnel suspended 7 inches above the rim until the sample was slightly higher than the beaker. The excess sample was levelled with a spatula, leaving the tip of the sample level with the beaker rim. Care was taken not to pack the sample.The sample was then weighed, and density calculated to give the values in TABLE VIII. TABLE VIII Loose Bulk Density pounds cubic foot LARGE C ONPA CTOR SMELL COMPACTORScreenFraction Unground Preground Unground Preground 6 12 48.1 47.9 43.4 46.2 12 20 51.8 48.D 47.2 46.7 20 40 61.9 57.8 48.7 49.2 40 70 61.2 61.7 56.4 54.6 70 Mesh 55.5 60.4 56.7 52.1 1 pound cubic foot 16.21 Kg cubic metre B. Packed Density The sample was added to a 250 ml graduated cylinder to fill to the 250 ml mark. The cylinder was placed on a Syntron Vibrator and vibrated for 1 minute. The volume after packing was recorded, the sample was weighed, and the density calculated, giving the values in TABLE IX. TABLE IX Packed Bulk Density Pounds Cubic Foot Large Compactor Small Compactor Screen Fraction Unground Preground Unground Preground 6 12 62.4 57.5 49.5 54.5 12 20 62.9 60.5 55.6 55.7 20 40 72.6 69.8 61.8 61.7 40 70 75.3 75.0 69.4 69.2 70 Mesh 72.2 75.2 70.1 67.8 It is misleading to compare bulk density directly for unground vs. preground products, since the flaked products differed in average particle thickness. However, if a correction is appied to compensate for difference in thickness, a fairer comparison can be made. Arbitrarily, such a correction can be accomplished by dividing bulk density for a given screen fraction by average particle thickness for that fraction. TABLE X presents particle thickness measurements on various screen fractions. TABLE X Particle Thickness mils Large Conpactor Small Corrpactor Item Unground Preground Unground Preground 6 12 MeshAverage 21.2 23.1 9.5 11.3Range 15.5 31.9 14.1 31.2 6.2 17.0 7.9 16.0StandardDeviation 3.6 4.6 2.7 1.7 12 20 MeshAverage 15.8 19.4 7.6 9.3Range 9.0 24.7 13.0 24.6 4.8 10.8 6.0 11.8StandardDeviation 3.7 3.1 1.7 1.8 20 40 MeshAverage 12.4 14.3 7.3 9.2Range 8.0 17.8 8.0 16.2 4.4 11.0 6.6 11.7StandardDeviation 2.6 2.3 2.1 1.5Dividing bulk density by average particle thickness for each sample gives a corrected bulk density, for purposes of comparison, as inTABLE XI and XII. Table XI Corrected Packed Bulk Density Packed Bulk Density Thickness LARGE COMPACTORScreenFraction Unground Preground 6 12 2.94 2.49 0.45 15.3 12 20 3.98 2.62 1.36 34.2 20 40 5.85 4.88 0.97 16.6 TABLE XII Corrected Packed Bulk Density Packed Bulk Density , Thickness SMALL COMPACTORScreenFraction Unground Pregroud 6 12 5.21 4.21 1.00 19.2 12 20 5.85 5.98 0.13 0.02 20 40 8.47 6.71 1.76 20.8 Unground minus Preground Unground Preground x 100 UngroundThe foregoing data and analysis demonstrate the bulk density reductions obtained for the flaked salt compositions formed by compacting after the indicated pregrinding step. EXAMPLE 4 The caking properties of each screen fraction of the flaked products prepared from the unground and from the preground admixtures of NaCl and KCl described inExamples 1 and 2 respectively were determined as follows. Caking This test was run using standard size salt cellars containing 10 gram samples in groups of 5, plus 5 extra cellars to determine number of cycles required to obtain caking. A cycle consists of placing the cellars in a humidity cabinet at 90 95 relative humidity and 90 F for 8 hours, followed by 16 hours in an oven at 160 F. After each cycle, one cellar is checked to determine approximate amount of caking. hen extensive caking does occur, the set 5 cellars is emptied onto a 14 mesh screen and vibrated no hammer on a Ro Tap device for exactly 30 seconds. The caked salt on the screen is then weighed and caking is calcul ated. In the event that a sample appears caked, but will not hold together for the required Ro Tap time, additional cycles would be required on another set of samples. The results obtained are set forth in TABLE XIII. TABLE XIII Caked After 5 cycles LARGE COMPACTOR SMALL COMPACTORScreenFraction Unground Preground Unground Preground 6 12 Mesh 30 13 26 21 12 20 Mesh 30 12 39 21 EXAMPLE 5 The susceptibility to breakage attrition was determined as follows on the 6 12 mesh and 12 20 mesh screen fractions of the flaked products prepared from the unground and preground NaCl KCl admixtures described in Examples 1 and 2. Attrition This test subjects flakes to controlled agitation, then measures the amount of breakage. A 20 gram sample of the flaked 1 1 mixture was placed on a 25 mesh screen along with 2 ping pong balls, and agitated on a Ro Tap for 15 minutes with the hammer activated the weight of the 25 mesh fraction is then determined as a measure of attrition. Agitation for another 15 minutes gives the more significant cumulative attrition after 30 minutes. eight of 25 mesh fraction x 5 Z0 attrition.Values are given in TABLE XIV. TABLE XIVScreen g0 Attrition Fraction 15 minutes Unground Preground Unground Preground 6 12 Mesh 17 12 25 26 12 20 Mesh 23 16 53 58 30 minutes 6 12 Mesh 31 23 37 35 12 20 Mesh 43 33 68 51 EXAMPLE 6 The 6 12 mesh and 12 20 mesh screen fractions of the unground and preground flaked compositions ofExamples 1 and 2 were used to test for liquid adsorption and retention according to the following procedure. Liquid AdsorDtion and Retention A 10 gram sample of each flaked fraction was placed in a 100 ml beaker, and 20 30 ml of glacial acetic acid added. After a 1 minute contact time, excess acid was removed by suction filtering through a Gelman glass fibre filter for 1 minute. The sample was weighed, then dried at 1000C for two hours. after the dry sample cooled to room temperature, it was reweighed to determine the weight in milligrams mg of acetic acid retained per gram of flaked salt composition. The results are set forth in TABLE XV. TABLE XV Adsorption mg Acetic Acid gram Flaked Salt Composition LARGE COMPACTOR SMALL COMPACTORScreenFraction Unground Preground Unground Preground 6 12 Mesh 34 94 134 121 12 20 Mesh 63 93 87 99 Again, a direct comparison of liquid adsorption is not justified, since the products differ in average thickness and therefore in surface area. Therefore, this difference is corrected for by multiplying by the average particle thickness set forth in TABLE X , which provides a fairer comparison, as in TABLE XVI. TABLE XVI Corrected Adsorption Adsorption x Average Thickness Large Compactor Small CompactorScreen Factor Unground Preground Unground Preground 6 12 721 2171 1273 1367 12 20 995 1804 661 921 EXAMPLE 7The flowability characteristics of flaked salt compositions made from the ground and pregund NaCl KCl salt compositions of carrples 1 and 2 were determined on the 6 12 mesh and 12 20 mesh screen fractions by the following procedure. FlowabilityThis test measures the quantity of flaked salt mixture that fails to adhere when dropped onto a sloped surface. The surface used was a piece of grained plastic covered hardboard 12 inches wide. A fixed quantity of sample was dropped through a funnel fixed in place onto the hardboard sloped at a specific angle 240 . The flowability is the amount of sample which falls off of the hardboard surface, as given in TABLE XVII. TABLE XVII Flowability 240 Slope Large Compactor Small CompactorScreen Fraction Unground Preground Un ground Preground 3 inch Drop 6 12 Mesh 82 94 4 89 12 20 Mesh 5 25 2 2 4 inch Drop 6 12 Mesh 93 99 81 95 12 20 Mesh 11 15 43 68