# Detergent bar processing.

## Abstract
Physically soft soap containing material based on unsatu rated feedstocks or containing relatively high amounts of water is hardened by passing the material through shear zone s between two mutually displaceable surfaces 1, 2 . The material passes between surfaces and through the shear zone s .

## Claims
Tibat tre 1. The process of hardening soap containing detergent material in which physically soft soap containing material is subjected to working by passing the material between two closely spaced mutually displaceable surfaces each having a pattern of cavities which overlap during movement of the surfaces so that the material moved between the surfaces traces a path through cavities alternately in each surface, whereby the bulk of the material passes through the shear zone in the material generated by displacement of the surfaces. 2. A process according to Claim 1 wherein the two surfaces have cylindrical geometry. 3. A process according to Claim 1 or 2 wherein thermal control is applied to at least one surface. 4. A process according to any preceding claim wherein the cavities in at least one surface are elongate with their long dimension normal to the flow of material. 5. A process according to any preceding claim wherein the temperature of the soap containing formulation during processing is in the range from about 30aC to about 55 C.

## Description
TITLE DETERGENT BAR PROCESSINGField of the Invention This invention relates to the processing of soapcontaining feedstocks to harden the soap bar product.Background to the Invention Soap bars are required to have a hardness which allows them to maintain their physical integrity during manufacture, packing and use. A bar having a hardness below the satisfactory level may deform and may be marked by handling after manufacture. Examples of bars which are liable to softness include those having a high proportion of unsaturated feed stocks eg, tallow, soya and palm, and those containing a relatively high level of water ca 13 and higher . The high level of water may be present to provide optimum properties relating to another component. The present invention achieves hardening of the soap material by subjecting it to considerable working within a specific temperature range in an efficient manner the temperature range being sensitive to composition.General description The present invention uses a device of the cavity transfer mixer class to work the soap base. These devices comprise two closely spaced mutually displaceable surfaces each having a pattern of cavities which overlap during movement of surfaces so that material moved between the surfaces traces a path through cavities alternately in each surface so that the bulk of the material passes through the shear zone in the material generated by displacement of the surfaces. Cavity transfer mixers are normally prepared with a cylindrical geometry and in the preferred devices for this process the cavities are arranged to give constantly available but changing pathways through the device during mutual movement of the two surfaces. The devices having a cylindrical geometry will comprise a stator within which is journalled a rotor the opposing faces of the stator and rotor carry the cavities through which the material passes during its passage through the device. The device may also have a planar geometry in which opposed plane surfaces having patterns of cavities would be moved mutually, for example by rotation of one plane, so that material introduced between the surfaces at the point of rotation would move outwards and travel alternately between cavities on each surface. Another form of cylindrical geometry maintains the inner cylinder stationary while rotating the outer cylinder. The central stator is more easily cooled, or heated if required, because the fluid connections can be made in a simple manner the external rotor can also be cooled or heated in a simple manner. It is also mechanically simpler to apply rotational energy to the external body rather than the internal cylinder. Thus this configuration has advantages in construction and use Material is forced through the mixer using auxilliary equipment as the rotor is turned. Examples of the auxilliary equipment are screw extruders and piston rams. The auxiliary equipment is preferably operated separately from the mixer so that the throughput and work performed on it can be separately varied.The separate operation may be achieved by arranging the auxiliary equipment to provide material for processing at an angle to the centre line of the shear producing device. This arrangement allows rotational energy to be supplied to the device producing shear around its centre line. An in line arrangement is more easily achieved when the external member of the device is the rotor. Separate operation of the device and auxiliary equipment assists in providing control of the processing. In general a variety of cavity shapes can be used, for example Metal Box UK 930 339 disclose longitudinal slots in the two surfaces. The stator and rotor may carry slots, for example six to twelve, spaced around their periphery and extending along their whole length. Preferably one or both surfaces are subjected to thermal control. The process allows efficient heating cooling of the material to be achieved. Preferably the temperature of the material during processing is in the range from about 30 C to about 55 C, preferably up to 500C. The soap feed stock may contain non soap detergents in amounts which would not interfere with the desired effect. Examples of these actives are alkane sulphonates, alcohol sulphates, alkyl benzene sulphonates, alkyl sulphates, acyl isethionates, olefin sulphonates and ethoxylated alcohols. The processed feed stock was made into bar form using standard stamping machinery. Other product forms, eg extruded particles noodles and beads can be prepared from the feedstock.Drawings The invention will be described with reference to the accompanying diagrammatic drawings in which Figure 1 is a longitudinal section of a cavity transfer mixer with cylindrical geometry Figure 2 is a transverse section along the line II II on Figure 1 Figure 3 illustrates the pattern of cavities in the device of Figure 1 Figures 4, 5 and 7 illustrate other patterns of cavities Figure 6 is a transverse section through a mixer having grooves in the opposed surfaces of the device Figure 8 is a longitudinal section of a cavity transfer mixer in which the external cylinder forms the rotor.Specific description of devices Embodiments of the devices will now be described. A cavity transfer mixer is shown in Figure 1 in longitudinal section. This comprises a hollow cylindrical stator member 1, a cylindrical rotor member 2 journalled for rotation within the stator with a sliding fit, the facing cylindrical surfaces of the rotor and stator carrying respective pluralities of parallel, circumferentially extending rows of cavities which are disposed with a the cavities in adjacent rows on the stator circumferentially offset b the cavities in adjacent rows on the rotor circumferentially offset and c the rows of cavities on the stator and rotor axially offset. The pattern of cavities carried on the stator 3 and rotor 4 are illustrated on Figure 3. The cavities 3 on the stator are shown hatched. The overlap between patterns of cavities 3, 4 is also shown in Figure 2. A liquid jacket 1A is provided for the application of temperature control by the passage of heating or cooling water. A temperature control conduit 2A is provided in the rotor. The material passing through the device moves through the cavities alternately on the opposing faces of the stator and rotor. The cavities immediately behind those shown in section are indicated by dotted profiles onFigure 1 to allow the repeating pattern to be seen. The material flow is divided between pairs of adjacent cavities on the same rotor or stator face because of the overlapping position of the cavity on the opposite stator or rotor face. The whole or bulk of the material flow is subjected to considerable working during its passage through the shear zone generated by the mutual displacement of the stator and rotor surfaces. The material is entrained for a short period in each cavity during passage and thus one of its velocity components is altered. The mixer had a rotor radius of 2.54 cm with 36 hemispherical cavities radius 0.9 cm arranged in six rows of six cavities. The internal surface of the stator carried seven rows of six cavities to provide cavity overlap at the entry and exit. The material to be worked was injected into the device through channel 5, which communicates with the annular space between the rotor and stator, during operation by a screw extruder. The material left the device through nozzle 6. Figure 4 shows elongate cavities arranged in a square pattern these cavities have the sectional profile of Figure 2. These cavities are aligned with their longitudinal axis parallel to the longitudinal axis of the device and the direction of movement of material through the device the latter is indicated by the arrow. Figure 5 shows a pattern of cavities having the dimensions and profile of those shown in Figures 1, 2 and 3. The cavities of Figure 5 are arranged in a square pattern with each cavity being closely spaced from flow adjacent cavities on the same surface. This pattern does not provide as high a degree of overlap as given by the pattern of Figure 3. The latter has each cavity closely spaced to six cavities on the same surface, ie a hexagonal pattern. Figure 6 is a section of a cavity transfer mixer having a rotor 7 rotatably positioned within the hollow stator 8 having an effective length of 10.7 cm and a diameter of 2.54 cm. The rotor carried five parallel grooves 9 of semi circular cross section diameter 5 mm equally spaced around the periphery and extending parallel to the longitudinal axis along the length of the rotor.The inner cylindrical surface of the stator 8 carried eight grooves 10 of similar dimensions extending along its length and parallel to the longitudinal axis. This embodiment, utilised cavities extending along the length of the stator and rotor without interruption. Temperature control jacket and conduit were present. Figure 7 shows a pattern of cavities wherein the cavities on the rotor, shown hatched, and stator have a larger dimension normal to the material flow the latter is indicated by an arrow. The cavities are thus elongate.This embodiment provides a lower pressure drop over its length compared with devices of similar geometry but not having cavities positioned with a longer dimension normal, i.e. perpendicular to the material flow. To obtain a reduction in pressure drop at least one of the surfaces must carry elongate cavities having their longer dimension normal to the material flow. The cavity transfer mixer of Figure 8 had the external cylinder 11 journalled for rotation about central shaft 12. Temperature control jacket 13 and conduit were present but the latter is now shown because the cavities on the central shaft are shown in plan view while the rotor is sectioned. The central stator diameter 52 mm had three rows 14 of three cavities with partial, i.e. half cavities at the entry and exit points. On the rotor there were four rcws nS of rne cavities. The cavities on the stator and rotor were elongate with a total arc dimension of 5.1 cm normal to the material flow with hemispherical section ends of 1.2 cm radius joined by a semicircular sectioned panel of the same radius. The cavities were arranged in the pattern of Figure 7, i.e. with their long dimension normal to material flow.The rotor was driven by a chain drive to external toothed wheel 16.Examples Examples of the process of the invention will now be given. The cavity transfer mixer illustrated in Figure 1 was used. The mixer had a rotor radius of 2.54cm with 36 hemispherical cavities radius 0.9cm arranged in six rows of six cavities. The internal surface of the stator carried seven rows of six cavities to provide cavity overlap at the entry and exit. The temperatures used for processing the feedtocks to provide the designed hardening will be dependant on the composition used.Example I Tallow fat was saponified, washed, fitted and vacuum dried to 20 moisture. The chips were then extruded through the device with the aid of a soap plodder. The hardness was measured with a SUR Berlin penetrometer using a 9 conical needle under a total force of 200g for 10 seconds. Cooling water was applied to the stator and rotor. The results are given in the Table I.Example II A soap feedstock comprising tallow 76 coconut 12 and soya bean oil 12 was prepared at a moisture content of 16.5 . The feedstock was processed as in Example I and the hardness measured.Example III A feedstock of tallow coconut 80 20 was prepared and the moisture increased to 18 by cold milling additional waterin. The feedstock was processed as in Example I and the hardness measured.Table I Rotor Through Penetration mm Temperature C Example speed put Initial Final Inlet Outlet 1 rpm g mien 1 I 95 290 5.2 4.2 36.0 42.0 II 95 380 4.8 4.2 42.0 43.0 III 120 520 4.3 3.7 32.0 47.0 The treatment of these feed stocks thus produced a hardening of the bars.Examples IV to VIII These examples utilised a cavity transfer mixing device with cavities of diameter 2.4 cm arranged circumferentially. Eight cavities on the stator and seven cavities plus half cavities at each end on the rotor were present on the components shown in Figure I. Water cooling was applied to the stator and rotor The formul ations which had a relatively high water content and which contained feedstocks providing physically soft bars, are given inTable II. The results are quoted in Table III. The feedstock oils and fats are quoted as percentages of the fat charge. Table IIExample IV V VI VII VIIIFeedstockTallow 85 80 87.5 Babassu 10 15 7.5 Soya 5 5 5 Palm 85 Palm kernel 15 Hardened rice bran 42Castor olein 42Coconut 15Rosin 1Moisture 15 16.5 16 17 14Table III Rotor Through Penetration mm Temperature C Example speed put Initial Final Inlet Outlet rpm g min 1 IV 30 200 2.7 1.6 29 43 V 30 280 2.6 1.9 29 50 VI 30 240 3.2 2.3 28 50 VII 30 260 2.9 2.0 29 50VIII 30 360 2.5 2.4 30 50