# Pyridyloxy propanol amines and esters thereof, process for preparing the same and pharmaceutical compositions containing them.

## Abstract
Compounds having the formula

## Claims
tHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. Compounds having the formulaEMI28.1 and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof whereinR is H orEMI28.2 wherein L is C1 C10 alkyl, phenyl or mono or di substituted phenyl wherein said substituents are C1 C4 alkyl, C1 C4 alkoxy or halo andR is a phenyl C3 C6 branched alkyl group having the formulaEMI28.3 EMI29.1 wherein x is 1 to 3 andY and yl when separate, are H, OCH3, OH or halo and, when joined, formEMI29.2 with the phenyl group. 2 Compounds of Claim 1 whereinR isEMI29.3 3. Compounds of Claim 1 having formula A wherein i R is H, ii R is H andEMI29.4 orEMI30.1 iii R is H and R1 is a or b . 4. Compounds of Claim 1 having formula A i wherein R is H and R1 is a , ii R is H andR1 isEMI30.2 or iii wherein R is H, R1 isEMI30.3 and is the S isomer or R isomer. 5. Compounds of Claim 1 having formula A wherein i R1 is b ,EMI30.4 S isozner. 6. Compounds of Claim 1 i having formula B wherein i R is H, ii having formula B wherein R is H and R1 is a or b , or iii having formula B wherein R is H andEMI31.1 7. Compounds of Claim 6 iii wherein formula B isEMI31.2 8. A pharmaceutical composition for treating hypertension containing a compound of Claim 1. 9. A process for preparing compounds of Claim 1 which comprises a hydrolysis of a compound of the formulaEMI31.3 wherein Z is an aldehyde residue to obtain Claim 1 compounds compounds where R is H and b additionally treating theProduct from a with a suitable acvlatina anent to obtainClaim 1 compounds where R isEMI31.4

## Description
N ARALKYLAMINO OR PROPOXYCYANORYRIDINES, PROCESS FORPREPARING THE SAME AND PHARMACEUTICAL COMPOSITIONSCONTAINING THE SAME SUZA RY OF THE INVENTION N phenylbranchedalkyl OR propoxycyanopyridines, their preparation and use as cardiovascular active pharmaceutical agents.BACKGROUND OF THE SSVENTION The present invention is concerned withN aralkylamino OR propoxy cyanopyridines their preparation and their use as pharmaceutical. N alkylamino OR propoxy cyanopyridine S are disclosed in U.S. 4,000,282 and U.S. 4,053,605. These compounds have pharmaceutical activity e.g., as antihypertensives or ss adrenergic blocking agents. OtherN substituted amino hydroxy propoxy substituted heterocyclics are disclosed in South African patent 741070 and Belgian patent 858,367 these heterocyclic compounds are also taught to have pharmaceutical activity. Certain N arbranchedalkyl OR propoxy cyanopyridines have been discovered. These compounds have pharmaceutical activity. DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS An embodiment 6f the present invention is compounds having the formula Ra O CH2 CHOR CH2 NHRÚ I and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof whereinEMI2.1 R is H orEMI2.2 wherein L is C1 C10 alkyl, phenyl or mono or di substituted phenyl wherein said substituents are C1 C4 alkyl, C1 C4 alkoxy or halo and R1is a phenyl C3 C6 branched alkyl group having the formulaEMI2.3 EMI3.1 wherein x is 1 to 3 andY and yl, when separate, are H, OCH3, OB or halo and when joined, formEMI3.2 with the phenyl group.R1 is H or theEMI3.3 group, with H being preferred. The L group includes C1 C10, linear and branched hydrocarbon alkyl such as methyl, n decyl, tert butyl, isoamyl, n heptyl and the like with C1C4 alkyl being preferred, and phenyl or mono and disubstituted phenyl such as tert butylphenyl, 2,6 dibromophenyl, 3 methylphenyl, 4 n propylphenyl, 3, 5 dimethoxyphenyl, 4 iodophenyl, 2 methyl 4chlorophenyl, 4 fluorophenyl and the like, with monosubstituted phenyl preferred. The alkylidene group, CH2 x may have from 1 to 3 units, with 1 to 2 being preferred. Y and yl may be H, OCH3, OH or halo.The halo substituent includes C1, Br, I or F with C1 and F being preferred. Y and yl may also be joined to form the dioxy alkylene moiety 0 CH2 1 or 2 0 which is attached to the phenyl ring to form a bicyclic group of the formulaEMI4.1 Preferred positioning of the dioxyalkylene moiety isEMI4.2 One class of preferred compounds has the formulaEMI4.3 Another class of preferred compounds has the formulaEMI5.1 especially where CH3 is in the 5 position in the pyridine ring. Other classes of preferred compounds are those of formula I, Ia, or Ib where R1 isEMI5.2 In more preferred compounds of this class, x is 1. Another class of preferred compounds are those of formula I Ia or Ib where R1 isEMI5.3 In more preferred compounds of this class, x is 2 andY and yl are selected from H and OCH3, and especially where Y is H and yl is OCH3, Y and Y1 are both OCH3, or Y and YÚ are both H, or Y and YÚ are joined to form O CH2 1 or 2 O and more preferably positionedEMI5.4 in the phenyl ring. All the optical isomer forms, that is mixtures of enantiomers or diastereomers, e.g., racemates as well as the individual enantiomers or diastereomers of Formula I are included. These individual enantiomers of Formula I are commonly designated according to the optical rotation they effect by and , L and D , 1 and d or combinations of these symbols. These isomers may also be designated according to their absolute spatial configuration by S and R which stand for sinister and rectus, respectively. Where no symbol is used in naming a compound, the compound is a racemate.The S isomer is a preferred isomer configuration. The pyridines of formula I, Ia or Ib have one chiral center at the 2 position in the propoxy substituent and can have a second chiral center when the alkylene group in R1 isEMI6.1 The aforesaid symbols, e.g., S, R or R, S , when used to designate a Formula I compound, refer only to the optical configuration around the chiral center at the 2 position in the propoxy substituent. The pyridines of the present invention can be prepared by any convenient process. One such process involves the coupling of a halopyridine with a i suitable substituted oxazolidine and hydrolyzing the reaction product obtained or ii suitable gylcolamine. These processes are illustrated by the following reaction equations EMI7.1 EMI7.2 II a glycolamine Halo may be C1, Br, F or I, with C1 being preferred.M is an alkali metal, either potassium or sodium.Z can be hydrogen or the residue of any suitable aldehydeEMI7.3 e.g., an arylaldehyde, such as benzaldehyde, naphthaldehyde and the like, or an alkanal such as acetaldehyde, butyraldehyde and the like. The process for preparing oxazolidines where M is hydrogen is disclosed in U.S.P. 3,718,647 and U.S.P. 3,657,237 and to the extent necessary the pertinent disclosure is incorporated herein by reference. The alkali metal salt of the oxazolidine is prepared in a conventional manner by reaction of the corresponding hydroxymethyloxazolidine with an appropriate amount of an alkali base reactant.However, this reaction i may also be carried out with in situ formation of the alkali metal oxazolidine salt Formula III by reacting the oxazolidineEMI8.1 with the Formula II pyridine in the presence of a strong base as used in reaction ii such as an alkali metal alkoxide e.g., K O C CH3 3 or sodium hydride. The coupling reactions can be carried out at temperatures ranging from about OOC. to the reflux temperature of the solvent. A temperature range of about 100C. to about 750C. is preferred. The reaction is generally carried out in a solvent.Any suitable solvent may be used. Examples of useful solvents are dimethylformamide, dimethylsulfoxide, hexamethyl phosphoramide, tert butanol, alkanols and the like. The hydrolysis is carried out using conventional acid hydrolysis reagents and techniques, e.g., treatment with a solution of an acid such as acetic acid or any strong mineral acid such as HC1 or H2SO4. The hydrolysis product can be directly obtained as the salt of the acid used for the hydrolysis. Ordinarily, the product I is recovered as the free base after conven tional neutralization of the salt. The coupling reaction is ordinarily carried out at atmospheric pressure. Higher pressures may be used if desired. When a racemic oxazolidine Formula III or V is used as a reactant, the product is obtained as a racemate. The racemate may be separated into its individual enantiomers by conventional resolution techniques, e.g., using an enantiomer of a suitable optically active organic acid such as tartaric acid. When Z in the oxazolidine, i.e., Formula III,IV or V, is other than hydrogen, in addition to the chiral center at oxazolidine position 5 there is a second chiral center at position 2 and a third chiral center may arise when R1 contains the C CH3 H CH2 x group . However, whenever the oxazolidine is designated, e.g., as S , R or R,S , this designation refers only to the optical configuration around the carbon atom at the 5 position. By using a single optical isomer of said oxazolidine or said glycolamine in the above reactions, the product may be obtained directly as a single enantiomer. Thus, e.g., if the S isomer of the oxazolidine is used, then the product obtained will be the S isomer. This provides a convenient way for directly preparing individual isomers of the present pyridines. Another convenient process for preparing the present pyridines is by treating an appropriate pyridine epoxide with a suitable amine as illustrated by the following reaction equation EMI9.1 This reaction is advantageously carried out in excess amine R NH2 reactant. Temperatures up to reflux can be used. An especially preferred reaction temperature range is room temperature to about 1000 C. The reaction is conveniently carried out at room temperature. The product from the epoxide R1NH2 reaction is ordinarily a racemate, and can be separated using conventional resolution procedures. If a single optical isomer of the formulaVI epoxide is used, as the reactant, the product obtained is the corresponding single optical iosmer,EMI10.1 The optically active epoxide intermediates of formula VI can be prepared by the reaction illustrated belowEMI10.2 conventional reaction conditions are used. If the S isomer of formula VII is used, the corresponding R isomer of formula VI is obtained.Preparation of the intermediates will be shown in the examples below. Pyridines of the present invention whereinR is other than hydrogen are conveniently prepared by treating the corresponding pyridine where R is hydrogen with an appropriate acylating agent such as an acyl halide, e.g., undecanoyl chloride, pivaloyl chloride, benzoylchloride, p methoxybenzoyl chloride or an anhdyride, e.g., acetic anhydride, and the like. The reaction is illustrated by the following equation EMI11.1 The compounds of the present invention also include the pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the present pyridines. These salts are generally salts of the Formula I pyridines and organic or inorganic acids.These salts are prepared by treating the pyridine with an appropriate amount of a useful acid, generally in a suitable solvent. Examples of useful organic acids are isothionic acid and carboxylic acids such as maleic acid, acetic acid, tartaric acid, propionic acid, fumaric acid, succinic acid, pamoic acid, oxalic acid, pivalic acid and the like useful inorganic acids are hydrohalo acids such as HC1, HBr, HI sulfuric acid, phosphoric acid and the like. The hydrochloride and hydrogen maleate salts are examples of preferred salts. The compounds of the present invention have ss adrenergic blocking activity. This ss adrenergic blocking activity is determined by measuring the ability of representative pyridines to block the 8 adrenergic stimulant effect of isoproterenol in a test animal. The compounds of the present invention also have a adrenergic blocking activity. This aadrenergic blocking activity is determined, a in vitro by mesuring the ability of a representative pyridine to displace radio labeled a adrenergic antagonist from a tissue substrate or b in vivo, by measuring the ability of representative pyridines to block the a adrenergic stimulant effect of phenylephrine in anesthetized normotensive animals. The present pyridines also exhibit antihypertensive activity of immediate onset. This rapid onset antihypertensive activity is determined by administering a representative pyridine of the present invention to spontaneously hypertensive SH rats and measuring the effect on blood pressure. The a and 6 adrenergic blocking activity of the present pyridines indicates that the compounds may be useful for treating cardiovascular conditions susceptible to ss blockade therapy e.g., angina pectoris, arrhythmia while minimizing bronchocon striction via a adrenergic blockade.This dual a ss blockade effect may also be useful in treating hypertension caused by pheochromocytoma. For use as a ss adrenergic blocking agents, and or antihypertensive agents the compounds of the present invention can be administered orally, by inhalation, by suppository or parenterally, i.e., intravenously, intraperitoneally, etc. and in any suitable dosage form.The compounds may be offered in a form 1 for oral administration, e.g., as tablets in combination with other compounding ingredients diluents or carriers customarily used such as talc, vegetable oils, polyols, benzyl alcohols, starches, gelatin and the like or dissolved, dispersed or emulsified in a suitable liquid carrier or in capsules or encapsulated in a suitable encapsulating material, or 2 for parenteral administration, dissolved, dispersed, or emulsified in a suitable liquid carrier or diluent or 3 as an aerosol or 4 as a suppository. The ratio of active ingredient present pyridine to compounding ingredients will vary as the dosage form requires. Conventional procedures are used to prepare the pharmaceutical formulations. The effective daily dosage level for the present compounds may be varied from about g. to abou g. Daily doses ranging from about 200 to about 2500 mg. are preferred, with about 00to about mg. being a more preferred range. Oral administration is preferred. Either single or multiple daily doses may be administered depending on unit dosage. Thus, another embodiment of this invention is a pharmaceutical composition containing a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the present invention. The following examples illustrate the preparation of representative compounds of the present invention. Temperatures are in Celsius. EXAMPLE 1 3 1,1 dimethyl 3 phenylpropylamino 1,2 dihydroxypropane To 1,1 dimethyl 3 phenylpropylamine 3.6 g., 22 mole in 20 ml. 2 propanol at 500C. in an oil bath was added glycidol 1.7 S, 23 mmole in 10 ml.2 propanol dropwise over 5 10 min. The mixture was heated at 750 C. for 2 hours. After evaporation of the solvent, vacuum distillation provided 3,9 g. 75 of 3 l,l dimethyl 3 phenylpropylamino 1,2 dihydroxypropane bp 160 1800 at 0.5 tot , which crystallized upon standing mp 74 770 . EXAMPLE 2 S 2 3 l,1 dimethyl 3 phenylpropylamino 2 hydroxy l propoxy 3 cyanopyridine maleate To an ice cooled solution of 41.0 g. 0.25 mole of l,l dimethyl 3 phenylpropylamine in 70 ml. methanol with 5.0 g. of 5 Pd C was added an ice cooled solution of 11.7 g. 0.09 mole of isopropylidene R glyceraldehyde in 130 ml. THF over 1 hour under a 40 psi atmosphere of hydrogen.After uptake of H2 had ceased, the mixture was filtered, washed with methanol, and concentrated. The residue was heated in 50 ml. 6N HC1 and 50 ml.acetone for 1 2 hour on a steam bath. The mixture was cooled and made basic with NaOH. Extraction with methylene chloride and ethyl acetate, followed by drying Na2SO4 and concentration yielded a residue which on trituration with petroleum ether followed by filtration gave 12.8 g. 60 of S 3 l,l dimethyl 3 phenylpropylamino 1,2 dihydroxy propane. A solution of 4.5 g. 19 mole of the glycolamine from above, 30 ml. benzaldehyde, 18 ml.benzene, and 200 mg. benzoic acid was refluxed for 3 hours while collecting the water in a Dean Stark trap. The solution was diluted with benzene and washed with aqueous potassium carbonate. The mixture was concentrated and then heated at 75 800C. 0.2 torrto remove any volatile materials. The residue from above in 50 ml. DMF was added dropwise to sodium hydride 1.0 g. of a 50 oil dispersion washed with hexane in 25 ml. DMF.Stirring was continued for 1 hour, and then 2.60 g. 19 mmole of 2 chloro 3 cyanopyridine in 25 ml. DIIIF was added. After stirring overnight at room temperature, most of the DMF was evaporated. Water was added and washed with ether. The ether was washed with a mixture of 124 HCL and methanol 2 1 .The acid washings were heated on the steam bath for 1 2 hour. After washing with ether, the mixture was basified with K2CO3. The oil was extracted withCH2C12, dried Na2SO4 , and concentrated to give 6.4 g. 97 crude free base. he maleate salt was prepared in 2 propanol, and recrystallization from 2 propanol methanol gave pure S 2 3 1,1 dimethyl 3 phenylpropylamino 2 hydroxy l propoxyj 3 cyano pyridine maleate, mp 142 1450C. EXAMPLE 3 S 2 3 1,1 dimethyl 2 4 methoxyphenyl ethylamino 2 hydroxy l propoxy 3 cyanopyridine maleate To an ice cooled solution of 29 g. 0.16 mole of 1, l dimethyl 2 4 methoxyphenyl ethylamine in 75 ml. of methanol with 4.0 g. of 5 Pd C was added an ice cooled solution of 8.0 g. 0.062 mole of isopropylidene R glyceraldehyde in 85 ml.of THF over 1 hour under a 40 psi atmosphere of hydrogen. After uptake of H2 had ceased, the mixture was filtered, washed with methanol, and concentrated. The residue was heated in 50 ml.of 6N HC1 and 50 ml. acetone for 1 2 hour on a steam bath. The mixture was made basic with NaOH, and extracted with ethyl acetate. After drying and concentration, trituration of the residue with petroleum ether led to crystallization. Filtration gave 8.3 g. 56 of S 3 11,1 dimethyl 2 4 methoxyphenyl ethylamino 1,2 dihydroxypropane which was dissolved in 50 ml. DMF for use in the next step. The DMF solution from above was added dropwise to 1.6 g. of sodium hydride 50 oil dispersion washed with hexane in 50 ml. D F. Stirring was continued for 45 minutes, and then 4.4 g. 0.032 mole of 2 chloro 3 cyanopyridine in 50 ml. DMF was added. After stirring overnight at room temperature, most of the DMF was evaporated.Water was added and washed with CH2C12 which was dried Na2SO4 and concentrated to give 6.4 g. 56 of the crude free base of the title compound. A gradient elution chromatography of this material on silica gel eluting with methanol chloroform mixtures gave the desired free base which eluted with 3 methanol chloroform. The maleate salt was prepared in 2 propanol ether, and recrystallization from 2 propanol gave pure S 2 3 l,l dimethyl 2 4 methoxyphenyl ethylamino 2 hydroxy l propoxy 3 cyanopyridine maleate, mp 126 1300C. EXAMPLE 4 2 2 ,3 epoxy l propoxy 3 cyanopyridine A solution of 22.4 g. 0.17 mole of 2,2dimethyl 1,3 dioxolane 4 methanol in 100 ml. DMF was added to 8.2 g. of sodium hydride 50 oil dispersion in 50 ml. DMF dropwise over 1 hour, and stirring was continued for an additional hour. A solution of 19.4 g. 0.14 mole of 2 chloro 3 cyanopyridine in 100 ml. DMF was added dropwise over 1 2 hour, and the mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. Water was added and then extracted withCH2C12. After drying Na2SO4 and concentration, petroleum ether was added and crystallization occurred. Filtration gave 2 2,2 dimethyl 1,3 dioxolane 4 methoxy 3 cyanopyridine mp 61 640C. , which was cleaved to the corresponding diol by heating in 100 ml. of 3N HC1 100 ml. acetone for 1 2 hour on a steam bath. To an ice cooled solution of 21.4 g. 0.11 mole of the diol from above in 50 ml. pyridine was added 12.6 g. 0.11 mole of methanesulfonyl chloride dropwise over 30 minutes. After stirring for an additional 30 minutes without cooling, the mixture was diluted with 250 ml. of CH2C12 and then cooled in an ice bath. A solution of 11.3 g. 0.21 mole of sodium methoxide in 50 ml. of methanol was added over a few minutes. Cooling was discontinued, and the mixture was stirred for 1 hour.Washing with water, cold dilute HC1, and saturatedNaHCO3, followed by drying Na2SO4 and concentration gave 16.0 g. 70 of crude 2 2,3 epoxy 1 propoxy 3 cyanopyridine, which crystallized upon standing.This could be used in subsequent steps without further purification or purified according to the procedure in Example 5. EXAMPLE 5 2 2 , 3 epoxy 1 propoxy 3 cyanopyridine To an ice cooled mixture of 2.2 g. 16 mole of 2 chloro 3 cyanopyridine and 0.85 g. of sodium hydride 50 oil dispersion in 25 ml. of DMF was added 1.20 g. 16 mmole of glycidol in 10 ml.of DMF dropwise over 1 hour, and then stirring was continued overnight. An equal amount of water was added and extracted with ether. The ether layer was dried Na2SO4 and concentrated. This crude product was triturated with hot hexane and decanted, repeating the process several times. The combined hexane washes were cooled to 300C. and then filtered to give 1.4 g. 508 of 2 2,3 epoxy 1 propoxy 3 cyanopyridine, mp 55 570C. EXAMPLE 6a S 2 2,3 epoxy 1 propoxy 3 cyanopyridine To an ice cooled mixture of 8.0 g. 56 mmole of 2 chloro 3 cyanopyridine and 3.1 g.sodium hydride 50 oil dispersion in 20 ml. ofDMF was added an ice cooled solution of 4.2 g. 57 mmole of R glycidol in 40 ml. of DMF over 1 hour, and then the mixture was stirred overnight while warming to room temperature. An equal amount of water was added and extracted with ether, which was dried Na2SO4 and concentrated. The crude product was triturated with hot hexane and decanted, repeating the process several times. The combined hexane washes were cooled to 5 C. and filtered to give 5.5 g. 55 of S 2 2,3 epoxy l propox3 cyanopyridine, mp 68 70 C. EXAMPLE 6b S 2 2,3 epoxy 1 propoxy 3 cyanopyridine To an ice cooled mixture of 2 chloro 3cyanopyridine 1.39 g, 10 mmole and NaH 1.0 g, 50 oil dispersion, 21 mmole in 25 ml DMF was added R 3 tosyloxy l,2 propanediol 2.5 g, 10 mmole in 50 ml DMF dropwise over 1.5 hr. The mixture was allowed to stir overnight while slowly warming to room temperature. Workup as presented in Example 6a gave S 2 2,3 epoxy l propoxy 3cyanopyridine, 0.68 g, 39 mp 64 66 C. R 2 2, 3 epoxy 1 propyoxy 3 cyanopyridine can be prepared from 2 chloro 3 cyanopyridine and either S 3 tosyloxy 1,2 propanediol or S glycidol according to the procedures described for the corresponding S isomer in Examples 6a or 6b. EXAMPLE 7 2 3 1,1 dimethyl 3 phenylpropylamino 2 hydroxy l propoxy 3 cyanopyridine maleate A mixture of 0.95 g. 5.4 mmole of 2 2,3 epoxy 1 propoxy 3 cyanopyridine and 2.4 g. 15 mmole of l,l dimethyl 3 phenylpropylamine was heated at 500C. overnight. The desired product was isolated by chromatography on silica gel eluting with 5 methanol chloroform. The maleate salt was prepared in 2 propanol ether, and recrystallization from 2propanol gave pure 2 3 1, I dimethyl 3 phenylpropyl amino 2 hydroxy 1 propoxy 3 cyanopyridine maleate, mp 134 1350C. Other compounds prepared according to the Example 7 procedure are included in the following table. TABLE I EMI21.1 SEP CN SEP O SEP CN tb N SEP O CH2 SEP SEP RÚ1NH2 N tb SEP O CH2 CH OH CH2 NHRÚ tb SEP A SEP B SEP C tb SEP A SEP B SEP Reaction tb Example SEP Isomer SEP Amine SEP Time SEP Temp SEP RECRYS. SEP PRODUCT SEP C SEP M.P. tb SEP hrs SEP C. SEP SOLVENT SEP ISOLATED SEP AS SEP C tb SEP CH3 tb SEP tb 8 SEP R,S SEP Ph O CH2 C NH2 SEP 15 SEP 65 SEP IPA Ether SEP 88 89 tb SEP tb SEP H tb SEP CH3 tb 9 SEP R,S SEP CH3O CH2 C NH2 SEP 7 SEP 80 SEP EtOH Ether SEP NCl SEP salt SEP 151 153 tb SEP CH3 tb SEP CH3 tb 10 SEP S SEP Ph CH2 2 C NH2 SEP 16 SEP 60 SEP IPA SEP maleate SEP salt SEP 151 153 tb SEP CH3 tb EMI22.1 SEP TABLE SEP I, SEP cont d. tb SEP CN SEP O SEP CN tb N SEP O CH2 SEP SEP RÚ1NH2 N tb SEP O CH2 CH OH CH2 NHRÚ tb SEP A SEP B SEP C tb SEP A SEP B SEP Reaction tb Example SEP Isomer SEP Amine SEP Time SEP Temp SEP RECRYS. SEP PRODUCT SEP C SEP M.P. tb SEP hrs SEP C. SEP SOLVENT SEP ISOLATED SEP AS SEP C tb SEP CH3 tb 11 SEP R,S SEP Pb CH2 2 C NH2 SEP 20 SEP 50 SEP IPA SEP maleate SEP salt SEP 115 117 tb SEP H tb SEP CH3O SEP CH3 tb 12 SEP S SEP CH3O CN2 C NH2 SEP 16 SEP 60 SEP EtOH SEP HCl SEP salt SEP 186 189 tb SEP CH3 tb SEP CH3O SEP CH3 tb 13 SEP R,S SEP CH3O CN2 C NH2 SEP 16 SEP 60 SEP EtOH SEP HCl SEP salt SEP 192 195 tb SEP CH3 tb EMI23.1 SEP TABLE SEP I, SEP cont d. tb SEP CN SEP O SEP CN tb N SEP O CH2 SEP SEP RÚ1NH2 N tb SEP O CH2 CH OH CH2 NHRÚ tb SEP A SEP B SEP C tb SEP A SEP B SEP Reaction tb Example SEP Isomer SEP Amine SEP Time SEP Temp SEP RECRYS. SEP PRODUCT SEP C SEP M.P. tb SEP hrs SEP C. SEP SOLVENT SEP ISOLATED SEP AS SEP C tb 14 SEP S SEP CH2 2 NH2 SEP 16 SEP 60 SEP Toluene SEP Free SEP base SEP 97 99 tb SEP OCH3 tb SEP CH3 tb 15 SEP S SEP Ph CH2 2 C NH2 SEP 16 SEP 60 SEP IPA SEP maleate SEP salt SEP 118 119 tb SEP H tb SEP CH3 tb 16 SEP R SEP Ph CH2 2 C NH2 SEP 16 SEP 60 SEP IPA SEP maleate SEP salt SEP 116 119 tb SEP H tb EMI24.1 SEP TABLE SEP I, SEP cont d. tb SEP CN SEP O SEP CN tb N SEP O CH2 SEP SEP RÚ1NH2 N tb SEP O CH2 CH OH CH2 NHRÚ tb SEP A SEP B SEP C tb SEP A SEP B SEP Reaction tb Example SEP Isomer SEP Amine SEP Time SEP Temp SEP RECRYS. SEP PRODUCT SEP C SEP M.P. tb SEP hrs SEP C. SEP SOLVENT SEP ISOLATED SEP AS SEP C tb SEP CH3 tb SEP tb 17 SEP S SEP O CH2 2 C NH2 SEP 16 SEP 70 SEP IPA Ether SEP maleate SEP salt SEP 101 104 tb SEP SEP SEP tb SEP O SEP H tb IPA is isopropanol EtOH is ethanol. Product has some isomer designation as A . EXUSLE 18 2 3 1,1 dimethyl 2 4 hydroxyphenyl ethylamino 2 hydroxy l propoxy 3 cyanopyridine hydrochloride A solution containing 1.41 g. 8 mmole of 2 2,3 epoxy 1 propoxy 3 cyanopyridine and 1.37 o. 8 mmole of 1,1 dimethyl 2 4 hydroxyphenyl ethyl amine in 20 ml. acetonitrile and 5 ml. water was stirred for 1 week at room temperature. The solvent was evaporated, and the residue was taken up in 5 CH3OH CH2C12. After washing with water and drying, the organic phase was concentrated. The residue was chromatographed on silica gel eluting with 5 methanol chloroform saturated with ammonia. The appropriate fractions were concentrated, and the hydrochloride salt prepared in 2 propanol ether.Recrystallization from 2 propanol gave 2 3 1,1 dimethyl 2 4 hydroxyphenyl ethylamino 2 hydroxyl propoxy 3 cyanopyridine hydrochloride mp 193196 C. EXAMPLE 19 a 2 2,3 epoxy 1 propoxy 3 cyano 5 methylpyridine Followinh the procedure used in Example 8 and substituting 2 bromo 3 cyano 5 methylpyridine for 2 chloro 3 cyanopyridine, the 2 2,3 epoxy 1propoxy 3 cyano 5 methylpyridine compound can be obtained in 45 yield m.p. 74 770C. b S 2 2,3 epoxy 1 propoxy 3 cyano 5 methyl pyridine Following the procedures used in Examples 6 or 6a and substituting 2 bromo 3 cyano 5 methylpyridine for 2 chloro 3 cyanopyridine, the S 2 2,3 epoxy 1 propoxy 3 cyano 5 methylpyridine compound can be obtained in 38 yield m.p. 76 780C. c 2 E3 1,1 dimethyl 3 phenylpropylamino 2 hydroxy l propoxy 3 cyano 5 methylpyridine maleate Following the procedure described inExample 7 and substituting 2 2,3 epoxy l propyoxy 3 cyano 5 methylpyridine for 2 2,3 epoxy 1 propoxy 3 cyano pyridine, the 2 3 1,l dimethyl 3 phenyl propylamino 2 hydroxy 1 propy 3 cy2no 5 methyl pyridine maleate compound can be obtained m.p. 149 1510C. EXAMPLE 20 2 3 1 methyl 3 phenylpropylamino 2 hydroxy 1propoxy 3 cyano 5 methylpyridine maleate Following the procedure described inExamle 7 and substituting 2 2,3 epoxy 1 propoxy 3 cyano 5 methylpyridine for 2 2, 3 epoxy l propoxy 3 cyanopyridine, the 2 3 1 methyl 3 phenylpropyl amino 2 hydroxy l propoxy 3 cyano 5 methylpyridine ma eate compound can be obtained m.p. 90 920C. Claims to the invention follow.