# Chemical DNA synthesis.

## Abstract
A process for the production of oligonucleotides such as DNA is disclosed which comprises the phosphite triester method on inorganic solid support in which a hindered dialkyl amino nucleoside phosphite having a total of 4 to 6 carbon atoms in the dialkyl group is employed as an intermediate reagent in the synthesis. The solid support preferably is controlled pore glass with a long spacer.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A process for the production of oligonucleotides which comprises the step of condensing the 5 OH group of a nucleoside or oligonucleo tide covalently linked to an inorganic solid support through the 3 0 linkage of said nucleosideor oligonucleotide with a hindered dialkylamino nucleoside phosphite of the following formulaEMI31.1 wherein B protected purine or pyrimidine base, R protecting group, R1 R2 alkyls in which the total number of carbon atoms is 4 to 6, R3 alkyl having one to 6 carbon atoms, and X H or OR. 2. The process of Claim 1 in which the dialkylamino group is diethylamino. 3. The process of claim 1 in which the dialkylamino group is diisopropyl 4. The process of Claim 1 in which the dialkylamino group is methylisopropyl. 5. The process of Claim 1 in which R is a trityl protecting group. 6. The process of Claim 1 in which the inorganic solid support is silica. 7. The process of Claim 1 in which the inorganic solid support is controlled pore glass. 8. The process of Claim 1 in which the inorganic solid support is linked to nucleoside or oligonucleotide through a long chain spacer having at least 15 atoms in the chain. 9. The process of Claim 1 in which the dialkylamino group is diethyl and the inorganic solid support is controlled pore glass with a long chain spacer having at least 15 atoms in the chain. 10. The process of Claim 1 in which the dialkylamino group is diisopropyl and the inorganic solid support is controlled pore glass with a long chain spacer having at least 15 atoms in the chain. 11. The process of Claim 1 in which the dialkylamino group is methylisopropyl and the inorganic solid support is controlled pore glass with a long chain spacer having at least 15 atoms in the chain. 12. Diisopropylamlnomethoxychlorophosphine. 13. Methylisopropylaminomethoxychlorophosphine. 14. Dlisopropylamlno nucleoside phosphite. 15. Methylisopropylamino nucleoside phosphite. 16. A process for the production of oligonucleotides which comprises the step of condensing the 5 08 group of a nucleoside or oligonucleotide covalently linked to an inorganic solid support through the 3 0 linkage of said nucleoside or oligonucleotide with a dialkylamino nucleoside phosphite of the following formulaEMI33.1 wherein B protected purine or pyrimidine base, R protecting group, R1, R2, and R3 alkyls having from one to 6 carbon atdms, X H or OR, and in which the inorganic solid support is linked to nucleoside or oligonucleoside through a long chain spacer having at least 15 atoms in the chain. 17. The process of Claim 1 in which the protecting group is a trityl group and in which detritylation of protected nucleoside residue is carried out by treatment with a protic acid having a pK of from about 1.2 to about 1.8. 18. The process of Claim 17 in which the protic acid is dichloroacetic acid having a pK of about 1.5.

## Description
Background of the Invention This invention relates to the chemical synthesis of oligonucleotides such as DNA. DNA is a double stranded, polymeric molecule comprised of a chain of deoxyribose residues linked by phosphodiester bonds. One of four bases, adenine A , thymine cut , cytosine C , or guanine G is connected to each sugar residue in the molecule. The DNA contains and transmits genetic information, and living cells use the information coded in DNA to synthesize proteins.This information is contained encoded by the sequence of the four bases. With the advent of recombinant DNA technology in the past decade, a variety of biologically active proteins can now be synthesized by genetically engineered microorganisms which are not normally produced by such microorganisms. Hormones such as somatostatin, insulin, thymosin and human growth hormone are typical examples of such products. The importance of DNA synthesis as a fundamental feature of this genetic engineering for the constructicn of genes, probes, linkers, primers and the like is well known. Several general methods have been developed for the chemical synthesis of DNA. The first practical method the so called diester method was developed primarily byKhorana and associates and is summarized in Science 203, 614 625 1979 . The basic step in this method is the joining of two appropriately protected deoxynucleotides to form dideoxynucleotide containing a phosphodiester bond.By removal of the protecting group from either end of the chain, the process can be repeated and the chain extended.A major disadvantage of this method is that it is very slow. A more recently developed method, which has advantages in speed and yield,is the so called triester method introduced by Letsinger and associates,J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 88, 5319 1966 , ibid 89, 4801 1967 .The principal difference between the diester method and the triester method is the presence in the latter of an extra protecting group on the phosphate atoms of the reactants and products. In the triester method the direct product of the condensation is a triester of phosphoric acid. The basic triester method has been modified and improved by various investigators. The phosphite triester approach developed by Letsinger and co workers constitutes one such improvement. J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 97, 3278 3279 1975 ,ibid 98, 3655 3661 1976 . This approach involves the condensation reaction of an appropriately protected nucleoside, a bifunctional phosphitylating agent such as methoxydichlorophosphine and a second protected nucleoside. According to another such improvement in the triester method, the solid phase synthesis procedures for making polypeptides h NP been adapted to oligonucleotide synthesis. In these procedures, the initial nucleotide is attached to an inorganic solid support material such as silica and followed by the stepwise addition of nucleotides in any desired sequence. See, e.g., Blossey and Neckers,Eds., Solid Phase Synthesis, Academic Press, New York, 1975. Combinations of the phosphite triester procedure and the silica solid phase procedure also have been developed independently by Ogilvie and associates, Tetrahedron Lett. 1980 , p. 4159 Science 214, 270 274 1981 and byCaruthers and associates, Tetrahedron Lett. 21, 719 1980 , ibid 22, 1859 1862 1981 and J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 103, 3185 3191 1981 . The latter procedure also is described in Eur. Pat. Appl. 35,719. These two groups of investigatofrs have adapted the phosphite triester silica solid phase procedures to the automated synthesis of DNA as reported in their foregoing publications. One of the main problems that still exists with the phosphite triester method is the instability of the reactive intermediate reagents such as the phosphochloridites, the dimethylaminophosphoramidites and the tetrazolides. Further background information on the chemical synthesis of DNA can be had by reference to the review paper by Itakura and Riggs, Science 209, 1401 1405 1980 and references cited therein. Description of the Invention In accordance with the present invention, oligonucleotides such as DNA are synthesized by the phosphite triester method on an inorganic solid phase support in which a bifunctional phosphitylating agent is used to provide a hindered dialkylamino nucleoside phosphite intermediate reagent and in which said dialkyl groups have a total of from 4 to 6 carbon atoms. The diethyl , diisopropyl , and methyldiisopropylamino nucleoside phosphites are illustrative of these hindered reagents. The known dimethylamino nucleoside phosphite intermediate reagents described by Caruthers and co workers, supra, have been demonstrated to be effective in the formation of internucleotide phosphate bonds. The reaction is fast and good yields can be obtained in reactions on solid supports. However, provision for increased reagent stability while maintaining a rapid condensation rate with solid supports is desirable and has been unexpectedly obtained with the larger molecule hindered derivatives of this invention compared to the smaller molecule dimethyl derivatives of Caruthers. The intermediate dialkylamino nucleoside phosphite reagents employed in this invention can be represented by the following formula I EMI5.1 wherein B protected purflne or pyrimidine base, R protecting group, R1 R2 alkyls in which the total number of carbon atoms is 4 to 6, R3 alkyl having one to 6 carbon atoms, and X H or OR In the above formula, R can be any conventional protecting blocking group such as,for example, trityl, methoxytrityl, dimethoxytrityl, pivalylisobutyloxycarbonyl, t butyl dimethylsilyl and similar such protecting groups.X is H for DNA and OR for RNA oligonucleotides. In RNA, uracil replaces the thymine pyrimidine base of DNA. It has been found that the hindered dialkylamino nucleoside phosphites used in the present invention exhibit substantially greater stability than the previously known dimethyl derivatives without loss of reactivity. The increased stability of these reagents makes them more amenable to use on automated gene synthesizers where stock solutions of reagents are desirably maintained for about 12 to 24 hours. Also, yields of DNA were obtained in the general range of about 50 100 higher using diethylamino nucleoside phosphites instead of the prior art dimethyl derivatives. The hindered dialkylamino nucleoside phosphites are readily prepared by reaction of appropriately protected nucleosides or deoxynucleosides with excess dialkylaminoalkoxy halophosphines in which alkoxy preferably is methoxy and halo preferably is chloro or bromo but especially chloro. Illustrative of these phosphines are the diethyl , diisopropyl , and methylisopropylaminomethoxy chlorophosphines. Following hydrolytic workup, the desired phosphite product can be isolated by Drecipitation into cold hydrocarbon solvent such as cold hexane e.g. at 700C . Since these phosbhite products are acid sensitive, they should be kept free of acidic impurities. The dialkylaminoalkoxy halophosphines used in the foregoing reaction can be initially prepared by amination of al koxydihaloDhosphine with about a two fold molar excess of the corresponding dial kylamine accompanied by elimination of dialkylamino hydrohalic salt.i Further details on suitable methodology for making the initial dialkylaminomethoxychlorophosphines and then the dialkylamino nucleoside phosphites can be had by reference to Beaucage and Caruthers, Tetrahedron Lett. 22 20 , 1859 1862 1981 , and by substituting the larger molecule dialkylamines having a total of 4 to 6 carbon atoms for an equivalent amount of the dimethylamine reported in said publication. Alternatively, the dialkylaminomethoxychlorophosphines can be prepared by heating mole equivalent amounts of dichloromethoxyphosphine and dialkylaminotrimethylsilane.Following evaporation of the byproduct, trimethylchlorosilane, the desired product can be distilled. The aforesaid hindered dialkylamino nucleoside phosphite reagents can then be used in the phosphite triester synthesis of DNA on inorganic solid phase support materials in place of the dimethylamino nucleoside phosphite used for such synthesis in the prior art. In this synthesis, the principal novel feature of the present invention comprises condensing the 5 OH group of a nucleoside or oligonucleotide covalently linked to an inorganic solid support through the 3 0 linkage of said nucleoside or oligonucleotide with a dialkylamino nucleoside phosphite of formula I, supra, instead of the dimethylamino nucleoside phosphite. In accordance with another aspect of the invention, it has been found that the use of controlled pore glass instead of ordinary silica gel of the prior art for the solid phase support provides further advantages in the DNA synthesis. For example, use of the controlled pore glass support in combination with the diethylamino nucleoside phosphites provides on the order of about 100X higher yields than obtained by use of the silica gel support with the corresponding dimethylamino nucleoside phosphite. Controlled pore glass CPG is manufactured particularly as a support material for use in liquid chromatography and related processes. It is manufactured by Corning Glass Works, Corning, New York, and distributed by Pierce Chemical Company, Rockford, Illinois. CPG is produced from a borosilicate base material which has been heated to separate the borates and silicates. The borates are etched from the material, leaving a porous structure.Before etching, the material is ball milled and screened to a finished mesh size. Several sizes of CPG are available, e.g., 5 10, 37 74, 74 125, 125 177, and 177 840 microns. Several nominal pore sizes also are available, e.g., 40, 100, 250, 550, 1500 and 2500 angstroms. Any of these products can be used. The CPG is available either as plain,untreated glass, or covalently bonded to various compounds. A particularly desirable CPG is aCPG bonded to long chain alkylamine having a mesh size of 80 100 125 177 microns and a nominal pore diameter of 550 angstroms. This material is available from PierceChemical Company under Product Number 24875 and is reported to have the following general structure EMI8.1 wherein TMS trimethylsilyl. The long chain terminal alkylamine arm in the aboveCPG product is reported to be about 20 angstroms long. This product is prepared by Glycophase glycerol coating of theCPG followed by further derivitization with 1,6 hexanediamine to provide a long chain spacer arm. Spacers of still greater chain length can be made by derivitization with alkyldiamines having alkyl groups of greater length, e.g., 1,12 dodecanediamine. It is preferred that the total chain length of the spacer counting outwardly from the silicon atom with the pendant OTMS be such as to have at least 15 atoms in the chain, said atoms comprising generally carbon, oxygen and nitrogen.Use of 15 30 such atoms is eminently suitable. Attachment of nucleoside to the solid support for use in the phosphite triester synthesis of DNA is conveniently carried out by conventional means. This attachment can be made by joining the derivitized solid support through amide or ester formation to the free carboxy group of nucleoside which has been modified to contain the half ester of a dicarboxylic acid, e.g., succinic or adipic acid. The chain length of the dicarboxylic acid can contribute to the total chain length of the spacer arm between the solid support and the nucleoside. Thus, adipic acid would add 10 atoms to the spacer. The following examples will further illustrate the invention although it will be understood that the invention is not limited to these detailed examples. In these examples,NMR means nuclear magnetic resonance and TLC means thin layer chromatography. , The diisopropyl and methylisopropyl aminomethoxychlorophosphines and the corresponding nucleoside phosphites prepared therefrom in the following examples are novel compounds. EXAMPLE 1Preparation of N protected 2 deoxynucleosides N 6 benzoyl 2 deoxyadenosine 2a To a stirred suspension of 20.0 g 0.080 mole of 2 deoxyadenosine la monohydrate is first dried by evaporation with pyridine in 200 ml of anhydrous pyridine 56 g 0.40 mole of benzoyl chloride is added dropwise over 15 20 minutes. The reaction is stirred for 2 1 2 hours after which it is poured into 2.0 liters of 0.01 M triethylammonium bicarbonate TEAB solution and extracted with dichloromethane 3 x 300 ml . The organic layer is concentrated to 140 ml on a rotary evaporator and then diluted to 400 ml with methanol and cooled on ice.With vigorous stirring, 240 ml of cold 2 N sodium hydroxide solution 1 1 methanol water is added to the ice cooled solution and the reaction is continued for 12 15 minutes at which point sufficient Dowex50X8 ion exchange resin pyridinium form is added to neutralize the reaction. The resin is filtered and washed with methanol and the filtrate is evaporated. The resulting oily residue is taken up in 250 ml of warm water and shaken with ether 2 x 250 ml which is removed by aspiration. Cooling gives white crystalline product which is filtered, washed with cold water and dried to afford 20.3 g 71X of product 2a with MP 112 121 0C. lit. 113 115 . NMR 6 DMSO d 6 ll.l bs, 1H , 8.75 s, 1H , 8.70 s, 1H , 8.l dd, J 2,7 Hz, 2H , 7.5 m, 3H , 6.5 t, J Hz, 1H , 5.4 bs, 1H , 5.l bs, 1H , 4.5 m, 1H , 3.9 m, 1H , 3.6 m, 2H , 2.8Cm, 2H . I N 4 benzoyl 21 deoxycytidine 2b To a stirred suspension of 21.1 g 0.08 mole of 2 deoxycytosine HCl lb in 250 ml of pyridine containing 12.0 g of triethylamine 56 g 0.40 mole of benzoyl chloride is added dropwise over 15 minutes. The reaction is stirred at room temperature for 2 1 2 hours and then poured into 2.0 liters of 0.01 M TEAB.Extraction with dichloromethane 3 x 300 ml followed by evaporation affords a white solid which is dissolved in 500 ml of THF and added to a solution of 500 mlTHF, 700 ml methanol and 300 ml water and cooled on ice to 30.With vigorous stirring, 200 ml of ice cold 2 N sodium hydroxide solution 1 1 methanol water is added and stirring is continued for 10 minutes. After neutralization with Dowex commat 50X8 ion exchange resin pyridinium form and filtering, the solution is concentrated to 300 ml. After shaking with ether 2 x 300 ml removed by aspiration the solution is cooled to afford 19.0 9 71X of product 2b after filtration and drying.MP 180 184 L lit. 194 . NMR 6 DMSO d 6 8.4 d, J 7Hz, 1H , 8.0 dd, J 2,8 Hz, 2H , 7.5 m, 3H , 7.3 d, J 7 Hz, 1H , 6.1 t, J 6 Hz, lH , 4.2 m, 1H , 3.8 m, 1H , 3.6 m, 2H , 2.2Cm, 2H . N 2 isobutyryl 2 deoxyguanosine 2c To a suspension of 21 g 0.078 mole of 2 deoxy guanosine lc in 300 ml of anhydrous pyridine stirred at 0 in an ice bath, 82 g 0.78 mole of isobutyryl chloride is added over 1 1 2 hours. The reaction is stirred for an additional 1 hour at 00 and then poured into 1.2 liter of 0.01 MTEAB and extracted with dichloromethane 3 x 200 ml . The organic layer is then back extracted with 10 sodium carbonate solution, dried sodium sulfate , and concentrated to 300 ml.With cooling on ice, 300 ml of cold methanol is added followed by 600 ml of 2 N sodium hydroxide solution 1 1 methanol water .The reaction is stirred at 0 for 25 minutes and neutralized withDowex 50X8 ion exchange resin pyridinium form . The resin is filtered washed with methanol and the filtrate is evaporated to a white solid which is redissolved in 250 ml of boiling water.Cooling overnight affords 20 g 75X of crystalline product 2c after filtering and drying. MP 300 C. NMR DMSO d 6 12.1 bs, 1H , 11.6 bs, 1H , 8.2 s, 1H , 6.2 t, J 7 Hz, 1H , 5.3 d, J 5 Hz, 1H , 4.9 t, J 6 Hz, 1H , 4.4 bm, 1H , 3.8 bm, 1H , 3.5 bt, Jo 6 Hz, 2H , 2.7 q, J 6 Hz, 1H , 2.3 bm, 2H , 1.1 d, J 6 Hz, 6H . EXAMPLE 2Preparation of 5 0 4,4 dimethoxytrityl protected nucleosides 5 0 C4,4 dimethoxytrityl N 6 benzoyl 2 1 deoxyadenosine 3a A solution of 36.9 g 0.104 mole of N benzoyldeoxyadenosine 2a and 38.8 g 0.115 mole of dimethoxytrityl chloride in 300 ml of anhydrous pyridine is stirred at room temperature for 3 hours. Methanol 2 3 ml is added and the solvent is removed in vacuo. The residue is taken up in ca. 100 ml of 0.01 M triethylammonium bicarbonate solution and extracted into dichloromethane which is dried sodium sulfate and evaporated. The residue is redissolved in 50 ml of 7 3 dichloromethane acetone and is purified in five equal batches on a Waters Prep LC 500 using silica cartridges and eluting with 7 3 dichloromethane acetone.The combined fractions containing product were evaporated, redissolved in 150 ml of chloroform and precipitated by dropwise addition to 3.0 liters of vigorously stirred pentane.The product was filtered and dried to afford 56.4 g 83 of 3a .M.P. 71 750C. NMR 6 CDC13 9.3 bs, 1H , 8.7 s, 1H , 8.1 cos, 1H , 8.0 dd, J s 2,8 Hz, 2H , 7.2 7.5 m, 12H , 6.7cub of AB,J t 7 Hz, 4H , 6.3 t, J 6 Hz, 1H , 4.7 bm, 1H , 4.2 bm, 1H , 3.7 s, 6H , 3.4 m, 2H , 2.6 m, 2H . 5 4,4 d imethoxytrityl N 4 benzoyi 2 deoxycyt id ine 3b A solution of 26.6 g 0.08 mole of N benzoyl 2 deoxycytosine 2b and 29.8 g 0.088 mole of dimethoxytritylchloride in 250 ml of anhydrous pyridine is stirred at room temperature for 2 hours and the product is obtained after workup and chromatography elution solvent 55 45 dichloromethane acetone described above for the adenosine derivative. Yield, 38.8 g 77X .MP 113 1260C. lit. 119 . NMR 6 CDC13 9.2 bs, 1H , 8.3 d,J 8Hz, 1H , 7.8 dd, J 7Hz, 2H , 7.2 7.5 m, 13H , 6.8 B ofAB, J 8 Hz, 4H , 6.3 t, J 6 Hz, 1H , 4.5 bm, 1H , 4.2 bm, 1H , 3.7 s, 6H , 3.4 m, 2H , 2.8 Cm, 2H . 5 4,4 dimethoxytrityl N 2 sobutyryl 2 deoxyquanosine 3c A solution of 25.3 g 0.075 mole of N isobutyryl deoxyguanosine 2c and 280 g 0.083 mole of dimethoxytritylchloride in 250 ml of anhydrous pyridine is stirred for 2 hours at room temperature and then worked up and isolated as in the case of the adenosine derivative elution solvent 55 45 dichloromethane acetone to afford 32 g 67X of product. MP 136 142 C. NMR 6 CDC13 7.8 s, 1H , 7.1 7.3 m, 9H , 6.7 B of AB,J 8 Hz, 4H , 6.1 t, J 6 Hz, 1H , 4.7 bm, 1H , 4.2 bm, 1H , 3.7 s, 6H , 3.3 m, 2H , 2.4 2.8 m, 3H , 1.2 d, J 6 Hz, 6H . 5 464 dimethoxytrityl thYmidine 3d A solution of 24.2 g 0.10 mole of thymidine ld and 37.3 g 0.011 mole of dimethoxytritylchloride in 300 ml of pyridine is stirred at room temperature for 4 hours. The solvent is evaporated in vacuo and the gummy product is dissolved in dichloromethane and extracted with 0.05 M triethylammonium bicarbonate solution x2 . The organic layer is dried sodium sulfate and evaporated and the resulting foamy residue is dissolved in 600 ml of boiling benzene. A crystalline product forms overnight which is filtered and boiled in 200 ml of benzene.The cooled mixture is filtered and dried to afford 50.6 g 93x of product 3d. MP 119 1230C. list. 116 118 . NMR 6 CDC13 9.5 s, 1H , 7.5 s, 1H , 7.2 7.4 m, 9H , 6.8 5 of AB, J 8Hz, 4H , 6.4cut, J 6 Hz, 1H , 4.5 m, 1H , 4.0 m, 1H , 3.7 s, 6H , 3.3 m, 2H , 2.3 m, 2H , 1.3 s, 3H . EXAMPLE 3 3 Succinyl Esters of 5 dimethoxytrityl nucleosides 4 A solution of 2.5 mmoles of 5 4,4 dimethoxytrityl nucleoside 3, 0.31 g 2.5 mmoles of 4 dimethylaminopyridine and 0.25 g 2.5 mmoles of succinic anhydride in 5 ml of pyridine is stirred at room temperature for 24 hours. Water 1 ml is added and the solution evaporated. Toluene 10 ml is added and evaporated and the residue is dissolved in dichloromethane which is extracted with ice cold 10 citric acid solution x2 , dried sodium sulfate and concentrated to a volume of 10 ml.A quantitative yield of product is obtained by prqcipitation into 150 ml of 1 1 pentane ether followed by drying under high vacuum. The last traces of pentane are removed only with great difficulty as revealed by NMR, however, TLC 10 water acetonitrile reveals a homogeneous product. This procedure was carried out on nucleosides 3a, 3b, 3e and 3d. Schaller, suDra. EXAMPLE 4Preparation of silica support using published method A suspension of 25 g of silica gel CFractosil200 stored for 24 hours over a saturated lithium bromide solution in 250 ml of toluene containing 15 ml of 3 aminopropyl triethoxysilane is shaken for 12 hours at room temperature and it is then heated at reflux for 18 hours. The silica is isolated by filtration and then washed with tolueneXmethanol and 1 1 methanol water. After shaking overnight in 1 1 methanol water, the silica is washed with methanol and ether and dried. The silica is then suspended in 50 ml of anhydrous pyridine and 15 ml of trimethylchlorosilane is added and the mixture is shaken overnight. The silica is isolated by filtration, washed with methanol and ether and dried, first in air, then in vacuo, and used below in Example 5. EXAMPLESPreparation of nucleoside functionalized silica A solution of 1.0 mmole of 3 succinoyl 5 dimethoxytrityl nucleoside, 220 mg 10 mmoles of dicylohexylcarbodiimide and 140 mg 1.0 mmole of p nitrophenol in 3 ml of anhydrous dioxane containing 0.3 ml of pyridine is stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The urea precipitate is removed by centrifugation and the supernatant is transferred to a suspension of 2.5 g of aminopropylsilica in 7 ml of DMF containing 1 ml of triethylamine. This mixture is shaken for 2 hours. The silica is isolated by centrifugation, washed with DMF x4 , THF x3 , methanol x3 and ether x3 . After drying, 5 ml of pyridine and 2 ml of acetic anhydride are added to the silica, and the reaction is allowed to proceed with occasional shaking for 30 minutes after which it is washed with methanol x5 and ether x2 and then pumped dry. Functionalized silicas obtained in this manner reproducibly have loadings of 80 110 pmoles of nucleoside per gram of silica as determined by quantitation at 497 nm in the visible spectrum of trityl cation released by acid. This functionalized silica was used as a solid support in Examples 8 and 12, below. Matteucci and Caruthers, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 103, 3185 1981 EXAMPLE 6Preparation of dialkylaminomethoxychlorophosphines Dialkylamine 2 moles is added dropwise over 1 hour to a solution of 133 g 1 mole of methoxydichlorophosphine,in 400 ml of ether stirring mechanically at 100. The reaction is stirred additionally for 1 hour and the mixture is then filtered, the salt washed well with ether and the ether distilled at atmospheric pressure. Distillation x2 provides product. Dimethylamino Bp 40 420 13 mm NMR 31Pl79.5 Diethylamino Bp 87 890 18 mm NMR 31p179.3 Diisopropylamino Bp 83 86 12 mm NMR 31P6l80.8 Isopropylmethylamino Bp 62 640 12 mm NMR 31P6l76.8 The latter two products are novel products. EXAMPLE 7Preparation of N,N dialkyl methylnucleosidylphosphoramidites 6,7 ,8,2 To a solution of 5 mmoles of protected nucleoside 3 in 10 ml of dry acid free THF stirred at room temperature under a dry nitrogen atmosphere is added 4.3 ml 25 mmoles of diisopropylethylamine followed by the dropwise addition over 1 2 minutes of 10 15 mmoles of either dimethylaminomethoxychlorophosphine 1.3 ml , diethylaminomethoxychlorophosphine 1.5 ml , diisopropylmethoxychlorophosphine 1.5 ml or methylisopropylmethoxychlorophosphine 1.5 zml . The reaction temperature rises to 40 . After See Martin et al., J. Am. Chem.Soc. 72, 4584 1950 stirring at room temperature for 15 minutes the reaction is diluted with 50 ml of acid free ethyl acetate and extracted with 10 sodium carbonate solution x4 . The organic fraction is dried sodium sulfate , evaporated in vacuo, and then redissolved in 10 ml of acid free ethyl acetate. Product is obtained by precipitation into 300 ml of vigorously stirring hexane maintained at 70 followed by filtration and washing with 70 hexane 300 ml . While still cold, the filter, with the product left untouched, is transferred to a vacuum dessicator and dried under high vacuum for 24 hours. Yields typically exceed 90 with purities ascertained by 31p nmr of the product and by tic 1 1 ethylacetate THF of the product oxidized with 1X t butylhydroperoxide in methanol.The results using protected nucleosides 3 a, b, c and d are summarized in Table 1. Table 1Base Product 31p CH2Cl2 Purity A 6a 147.1, 147.0 85 90Y, 148.8, 148.6 95 8a 148.2, 148.0 95X C 6b 147.8, 146.8 80 85X 7b 149.4, 149.1 92 8b 148.3, 148.0 ir 95 G 6c 146.5, 146.3 85 90 7c 148.0, 148.2 w95 8c 148.4, 148.1 95 T 6d 147.3, 146.5 85 90 7d 148.7, 148.1 95 8d 148.1, 147.9 95 9d 147.1, 146.7 792X Nucleoside phosphite analogs 6 dimethyl analog 7 diethyl analogEMI18.1 tb 8 SEP SEP diisopropyl SEP analog SEP tb SEP SEP These SEP are SEP novel SEP products tb 9 SEP isopropylmethyl SEP analog tb Product free of starting nucleoside but contaminated with 10 15X of hydrolyzed material whose resonances appear at 8 20 ppm. Additionally, small amounts of hydrolyzed chloro phosphite appear at 17 ppm. Product free of starting nucleoside and of hydrolyzed product but 3 5X of hydrolyzed chlorophosphite persists 6 15 ppm . EXAMPLE 8DNA Synthesis Cycle Per Reaction Scheme 1 The synthesis of DNA on the solid support commat in Scheme 1 described above is conducted most expeditiously by using a 15 ml sintered glass funnel of medium porosity with a Teflon commat stopcock in the stem. By placing the funnel through a rubber stopper in a filtering flask, the system can be connected to a vacuum to aid in removal of solvents at each step. Depending on the amount of DNA desired, 50 100 mg 5 lOgumoles of nucleoside of nucleosidesilica is placed in the funnel and subjected to the sequence defined in Table 2. At each step the funnel is agitated gently to mix the contents.Detritylation of the nucleoside silica 5 and each subsequent trityl protected residue is effected rapidly with saturated ZnBr2 in nitromethane containing 5X methanol to yield product 10 Scheme 1 however, to insure complete deprotection, steps 1 3 Table 2 are repeated until no more orange color is released upon ZnBr2 treatment. After washing with methanol, THF and acetonitrile, the funnel is capped with a closure assembly having an injection port at the top closed with a rubber serum stopper and having a sidearm inlet port for provision of an inert gas blanket over the funnel contents. Then, under a dry argon atmosphere, 5 ml of acetonitrile freshly distilled from calcium hydride is added by syringe through the serum stoppered injection port. The solvent is vacuum filtered without allowing the silica to become completely dry.Nucleoside phosphite 45 90 mg, 10 20 equivalents in 0.25 ml of dry acetonitrile is added by syringe, followed by injection of sublimed tetrazole 15 30 mg, 10 20 equivalents in 0.5 0.75 ml of dry acetonitrile. The mixture is agitated occasionally for 10 minutes after which it is filtered and submitted to a hydrolytic wash to give product 11 Scheme 1 . Oxidation to phosphate is then effected with 12 providing product 12 Scheme 1 . Following a wash sequence with acetonitrile and with THF, acetic anhydride is added in the presence of dimethyl aminopyridine to cap, and render unreactive, any 5 hydroxyl groups that did not react in the condensation step. Following a wash with methanol and with nitromethane, the sample is ready for another round of synthesis. One cycle of events requires a total of r 25 minutes and as many as six reaction vessels have been manipulated at one time. The condensation efficiencies can be roughly approximated by following spectrophotometrically the absorbance of each detritylation step. The amount of phosphite necessary for each condensation is variable and depends on the humidity above the reaction.Under carefully controlled conditions, 10 equivalents are usually sufficient for 90 95 yield. Once the desired sequence has been achieved and the last nucleotide has been added and detritylated, the DNA is deprotected by removing the phosphate methyl groups using 2.0 ml of 1 2 2 thiophenol triethylamine dioxane for 45 minutes at room temperature .The silica is then suspended in 2.0 ml of conc. ammonium hydroxide for 2 1 2 hours which removes the DNA from the support. Heating the supernatant at 500 for 20 hours removes all of the base protecting groups. The resulting solution is then chilled and carefully evaporated in vacuo to afford crude DNA which is purified in Example 9, below. Reaction Scheme 1The DNA synthesis cycleEMI21.1 tb SEP 8 tb DMT SEP B SEP H SEP y tb DMT SEP 0 SEP SEP ZnBr2 SEP how SEP 0 tb SEP ZnBr2 tb SEP 0 SEP SEP tetrazole SEP 0 tb SEP I tb SEP I SEP Q SEP IB tb SEP 0 tb SEP 5, SEP 10 SEP 11 tb SEP 0 tb SEP F tb SEP 0 tb SEP H20 tb SEP A SEP H20 tb SEP B tb SEP with SEP AC20 SEP DMF SEP C tb SEP 0 tb SEP O SEP P OCK, tb SEP 1 8 tb SEP SEP w SEP S tb SEP 12 SEP JI tb SEP 0 tb Nucleoside phosphite From Example 7 Table 2 DNA Synthesis Cycle t25 minutes cycle Reagent or Solvent Volume Time 1. sat.ZnBr2 5X methanol nitromethane 2.0 ml 5 min 2. methanol wash 2 ml 3. nitromethane wash 2 ml 4. repeat 1 3 until no more orange color is released.5. methanol wash 2 ml 6. acetonitrile wash 5 ml 7. serum stopper funnel argon 8. dry acetonitrile wash 2x2 ml 9. 10 20 eq phosphite 0.24 ml 10 20 eq tetrazole 0.50 ml 4 min 10. 1 2 2 2,6 lutidine water THF 5 ml 1 min 11. 0.2 M I2 2,6 lutidine water THF 5 ml 12. acetonitrile wash 5 ml 13. THF wash 5 ml 14. 0.5 M dimethylaminopyridine THF 1 ml 2 min 1 1 acetic anhydride 2,6 lutidine 0.5 ml 15. methanol wash 5 ml 16. nitromethane wash 5 ml eq equivalents An improved and preferred method ci detrityla ing the c hydroxyl protecting group from the support and each succeeding nucleoside steps 1 4 in the growing chain comprises a two minute treatment with 2Z weight volume of dichloroacetic acid in dichloromethane, followed by washing as in steps 5 and 6, above. Other proticacids having a pK of from about 1.2 to about 1.8, and preferably about 1.5, can be used in place of dichloroacetic acid. See Example 13, below, in which this improved detritylating step was used in theDNA synthesis. EXAMPLE 9DNA Purification The crude DNA residue is resuspended in 250 300 rl G 50 column buffer 25 mM Tris HCl, pH 7.6 100 mM NaCl and loaded onto a 10 ml G 50 40 Sephade ss column equilibrated with the same buffer. The sample is eluted and 1 ml fractions are collected. After reading the optical density at 260 nm for each fraction, the first four column fractions having absorbing material are tested for the desired DNA product by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis An aliquot of the column fraction approximately 1 O.D. unit, usually 40 60 ,ul is cooled to 00.Five volumes absolute ethanol is added, and the sample is placed on dry ice for 20 30 min . After centrifugation 3 min in an Eppendorf 5412 , the supernatant is decanted and residual solvent is removed in vacuo. The residue is resuspended in 10 ul formamide containing 0.01 bromphenol blue and 0.01X xylene cyanol. After heating for 1 min at 100 C, the samples are chilled on ice and loaded onto a 20X polyacrylamide gel 140 x 160 x 1.5 mm, 8 mm wide slots containing 7 M urea. Samples are electrophoresed toward the anode at 300 V. On 20X acrylamide, bromphenol blue co migrates with a DNA 7 mer while xylene cyanol, runs with a 25 mer omit the dye if it will obscure the desired DNA .DNA is visualized by short wave W shadowing on a Brinkman Polygram CEL 300 polyethyleneimine thin layer chromatography TLC plate. Preparative scale electrophoresis is performed as follows An aliquot of the G 50 column fraction containing 3 5 O.D. units of DNA is precipitated with 5 volumes of ethanol as above. After centrifugation 3 min in an Eppendorf 5412 or 45 min in a Beckman J2 21 at 10 k rpm the supernatant is decanted and residual ethanol is removed in vacuo. The dried DNA is resuspended in 40 yl formamide plus appropriate tracker dye s .Following treatment at 1000 for 1 min, the sample is loaded onto a 20X acrylamide gel 140 x 160 x 1.5 mm, 35 mm wide slots .After electrophoresis, the DNA is visualized by UV shadowing.The plug of acrylamide containing the desired DNA band is cut out and extruded through a 3 ml B D disposable syringe no needle into a 1.5 ml Eppendorf tube. Column buffer 0.1 SDS is added 1.0 ml , and the sample is extracted overnight. Acrylamide pieces are removed by filtration through glass wool. More column buffer 1.0 ml is used to wash the acrylamide. The filtrate is twice extracted with 2 ml n butyl alcohol, and the DNA is ethanol precipated as above.The pure product is resuspended in 1 ml G 50 buffer, and the O.D. at 260 nm is determined Cl O.D. unit 35 y DNA . min minutes B D Becton Dickinson EXAMPLE 10 The stability of the dialkylamino nucleoside phosphites prepared in the above examples was evaluated by testing their half life behavior in acetonitrile. The results are set forth in Table 3 which shows the stability sequence EMI25.1 Table 3Stability of Nucleoside Phosphites in Acetonitrile at Room Temperature EMI26.1 tb SEP Nucleoside SEP T1 2 SEP hrs 3 tb SEP Phosphite tb SEP NMe, SEP NEt, SEP NiPr 2 SEP N tb SEP . tb SEP bz SEP OCH, tb SEP DMT dhbZ SEP op SEP SEP 3 SEP 45 SEP SEP 6 SEP days tb SEP X tb SEP DMT dCbz, SEP DMT dCbZ SEP II SEP 8 SEP 30 tb SEP days2 tb SEP DMT dGib SEP 481 SEP 76 SEP days tb SEP DMT dr SEP SEP r SEP 6 SEP days SEP 6 SEP 6 SEP days SEP 76 SEP days tb SEP DMT dCt l SEP SEP tS SEP davs tb 1. Value is an estimate as decomposition product precipitated.2. There is no change in the spectrum after 64 hours.3. Half lives were determined by following the disappearance of phosphite peaks at 146 148 p and appearance of decomposition products at 0 20 ppm in the 31p nmr spectrum. Solutions were ca. 0.05 M in phosphite. X Dialkylamino group Me Methyl Et Ethyl iPr Isopropyl bz Benzoyl I tol o Toluyl EXAMPLE 11 Preparation of controlled pore glass CPG support and functionalizin with nucleoside A suspension of 2.0 g of CPG, Pierce ChemicalCompany, Product Number 24875, 0.425 g of DMT dN succinyl ester compound 4, Example 3 , 0.600 g of l ethyl 3 3 dimethylamino propyl carbodiimide hydrochloride SigmaChemical Company , and 0.030 g of 4 dimethylaminopyridine in 8 ml of dimethylformamide DMF and 2 ml of pyridine was shaken gently for 18 hours, after which it was filtered and washed with DMF and tetrahydrofuran THF . The support was then resuspended in 4 ml of pyridine containing 2 ml of acetic anhydride and shaken for 2 hours. After filtering and washing with THF, the support was dried in vacuo. Functionalized CPG obtained in this manner reproducibly had loadings of about 40Y moles of nucleoside per gram of CPG as determined by quantitation at 498 nm in the visible spectrum of trityl cation released by acid. This functionalized CPG was used as the solidCPG support in Example 12, below. EXAMPLE 12DNA Synthesis A large number of DNA syntheses using the method described hereinbefore have reproducibly shown the superiority of the hindered dialkylamino nucleoside phosphites and the CPG solid support when compared to the dimethylamino nucleoside phosphites and the silica support. The following parts illustrate these improvements. A. Attempts to prepare the following 23 mer failed to give product in several runs using dimethylamino nucleoside phosphites on silica support however, when the corresponding diethylamino nucleoside phosphite on silica support was used, a 5X yield of product was obtained which was isolated, purified and shown to be biologically active. 5 CCGGAGATCTGCAGATTATTTGG3 B. The followingl4 mers which are probes for isolating specific m RNA s were synthesized using diethylamino nucleoside phosphites on silica I and CPG II supports 5 ACATTCCAACTCAT3 I G G 5 ACATTCCAAGACAT3 II G G T CThe overall yield of I was 18 whereas the overall yield ofII was 35X. In addition to improved yields with CPG as assayed by the final detritylation , the DNA in II contained more of the desired product with fewer failure sequences as determined by gel electrophoresis on samples labeled with 32p C. In another DNA syntheses, two 17 mers, primers for Sanger s dideoxy sequencing in M 13, the reverse primer was synthesized on silica III and the forward primer was synthesized on CPG IV using diethylaminomethoxy nucleoside phosphite. See Sanger et al., PNAS USA, 74 n , 5463 5467 1977 . 5CAGGAAACAGCTATGAC3 III 5 GTAAAACGACGGCCAGT3 IV The production of IV on CPG was quelitatively higher than III and showed fewer failure sequences as by products. D. In the syntheses of the following lO mer on CPG CV , diethyl and diisopropyl nucleoside phosphites each provided yields of about 40X and gave DNA of equal quality. This demonstrates relatively equivalent effectiveness of the diethyl and diisopropyl analogs. 5 GGAATTCTr3 V EXAMPLE 13 In another DNA synthesis, the following 17 mer VI was prepared on CPG solid support substantially according to the method described in Example 12, above, except that dichloroacetic acid pK 1.5 was used as the detritylating agent instead of ZnBr2, as described at the end of Example 8, above. The total synthesis time was reduced by about one third and the yield was increased by about 100X by this improved detitylation step. I I 5GTCATAGGTGTTTCCTG3 VI Various other examples can be devised by the person skilled in the art after reading the foregoing disclosure without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention, and it is intended that all such examples be included within the scope of the apended claims.