# Dispensing pump for liquids.

## Abstract
A dispensing pump includes an outer cylinder 18 and an inner piston 20 which cooperate in defining a pump chamber. The cylinder includes an inlet port 22 and an outlet port 26 which are sequentially opened and closed by the piston. In addition, a vent 42 for the container interior to replace discharge product with air is also adapted to be opened and closed incident to the movement of the piston. Sealing rings 40, 46, 48 are provided between the piston and cylinder, the location of which determines the amount of product and air drawn into the pump chamber as well as the characteristics of the dispensing pattern of the product discharged by the pump. During part of the suction stroke as well as the compression stroke, the inlet and outlet ports are simultaneously closed by the piston thereby respectively creating a predetermined negative pressure and positive pressure within the pump chamber.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A versatile universal pump with the following features a A cylinder 18 having an open rear and a forward closed end b a piston 20 in the cylinder having a forward open end and a rear end and defining with the cylinder a variable volume pump chamber 44 c an inlet port 22 in the cylinder cooperating with the piston for admitting product to the pump chamber d an outlet port in one of the parts, especially an outlet port 26 in the cylinder cooperating with the piston , for directing product under pressure out of the pump chamber e sealing rings 40, 46, 48 interposed between the piston and the cylinder and spaced from one another in relation to the inlet and outlet ports f the inlet and outlet ports sequentially opening and closing during the relative reciprocation of the piston and cylinder during the pumping cycle to permit product to enter the pump chamber and dispense it from the pump chamber g air assist means for assuring the presence of a predetermined quantity of air in the pump chamber to assist in dispensing the product from the pump chamber through the outlet port, characterized by the following features h the sealing rings are provided on and are integral with sleeves 32, 34, 36 and are extending outwardly there from i the sleeves 32, 34, 36 are adjustable axially rela tive to the piston 20 for attaining a predetermined product discharge characteristic for the pump j means for fixing the location of the sleeves on the piston. 2. A pump according to claim 1, characterized in that each ring extends from a sleeve separate from the other sleeves. 3. A pump according to claims 1 or 2, characterized in that each ring has a base and tapers to an outer edge, and in that each ring is inclined defining an acute angle with the axis of the piston, so that the rings resist any tendency to collapse during compression strokes. 4. A pump acording to any one of claims 1 to 3, characte rized by the following features a three rings are on the piston b the first ring 40 thereof is arranged near the forward end of the cylinder for opening and closing the inlet port 22 with respect to the pump chamber 44 , while when piston and cylinder are in the exten ded position, the first ring is interposed between the inlet port and the outlet port 26 c the third ring 48 is interposed between the outlet port 26 and the open end of the cylinder in any relative operating position of piston and cylinder d the second ring 46 , arranged intermediate the first and third rings, is adapted to close the outlet port on the suction stroke before the first ring opens the inlet port to the pump chamber e the second ring 46 is adapted to maintain the outlet port 26 closed, and the first ring 40 is adapted to maintain the inlet port 22 closed during a prede termined portion of the suction stroke to generate a preselected negative pressure in the pump chamber 44 . 5. A pump according to claim 4, characterized in that the first and third rings are spaced apart a distance excee ding the distance between the inlet and outlet ports. 6. A pump according to claims 4 or 5, characterized in that the distance between the second ring and the outlet port at the start of the suction stroke is made less than the actual piston stroke from the fulls inserted position to the extended position. 7. A pump according to any of claims 4 to 6, characterized by the following features a The piston has a longitudinal passage 50 and a transverse passage 54 b the maximum volume of air entering the cylinder is limited to the internal cross sectional area of the cylinder times the distance between the second ring 46 and the outlet port 26 measured at the start of the suction stroke while the first ring 40 maintains the inlet port 22 closed c the minimum amount of product sucked into the pump chamber 44 with each retraction of the piston is related to the cross sectional area of the cylinder times the length of piston travel in the cylinder after the second ring 46 has passed and closed the outlet port 26 d the amount of product available for discharge during the compression stroke out through the outlet port is the amount of product that was actually sucked into the pump chamber minus the amount of product returned to the container during the compression stroke before the inlet port 22 is closed by the first ring 40 . 8. A pump according to any of the preceeding claims, charac terized in that vent means are provided by cooperating surfaces of piston and cylinder for replacing product removed from the container interior into the pump chamber with air. 9. A pump according to claim 8, characterized in that the outlet port 26 is communicating with the vent means 42 to vent the container when the first ring 40 is interposed between the vent means 42 and the closed end of the cylinder and the third ring 48 is on the side of the outlet port 26 closest to the open end of the cylinder. 10. A pump according to claims 8 or 9, characterized in that a forth ring 41 is disposed between the vent means 42 and the outlet port 26 when piston and cylinder are in the fully extended position to seal the vent means from the outlet port. 11. A pump according to any of claims 8 to 10, characterized by the following features a the transverse passage 54 is arranged between the third and second ring and communicates directly with the longitudinal passage 50 , and the outlet port 26 is stationary in the cylinder b the outlet port communicates with the vent means 42 to vent the container when the first ring 40 is interposed between the vent means and the closed end of the cylinder and the third ring 48 is on the side of the outlet port closest to the open end of the cylinder. 12. A pump according to any of the preceeding claims, charac terized in that means are provided for air to be sucked into the pump chamber during the suction stroke to pro vide air in the pump chamber for compression during the compression stroke while both the inlet and outlet ports are closed before the outlet port opens during insertion of the piston, whereby there will be enough air r in the pump chamber that will exceed the volume of displacement resulting from piston travel during insertion after the inlet and outlet ports are both closed. 13. A pump according to any of the preceeding claims, characterized in that air resistance means are provided between the pump chamber and the ambient through the outlet port, such that additional negative pressure is created in the pump chamber during retraction of the piston when the outlet port is open and the inlet port is closed. 14. A pump according to any of the preceeding claims, charac terized in that a rotatable nozzle 74 is in fluid communication with the outlet means for permitting the consumer to adjust the direction of discharge of product and means for rotatably coupling the nozzle to the pump. 15. A pump according to any of claims 1 to 13, characterized in that a discharge nozzle 28 is coupled with the outlet means and a shiftable pin 72, 72 is interposed between the discharge nozzle and the pump chamber.

## Description
VERSATILE UNIVERSAL PUMP The invention relates to a versatile universal pump with the features of the opening portion of claim 1. Such a pump is known from the German Offenlegungsschrift 28 18 507 relating to a previous invention of the same applicants. The pump in question is to be manually operated for dispensing the contents of a container. Such pumps are relatively simple and reliable with a substantially reduced nuw ber of parts, each individually simple and inexpensive to manufacture and assemble. The need for reliable and less costly pumps for dispensing products, particularly those that are petroleum based and or chemically reactive with regard to the pump materials has increased and it is become acute as pumps replace aerosol dispensing packages that are being withdrawn because of fluorocarbon propellants with their predicted effect on the environment. In addition, such criticism has served to make the consumer aware of the inherent economy and convenience of pump type dispensers. It remains a continuing desire to decrease manufacturing costs and upgrade the construction, performance and reliability, as well as enhance and widen the application of dispensing pumps for an ever increasing variety of substances and materials with spray patterns heretofore sought but never achieved by pumps. It is an object of the invention to provide a pump design that permits tailoring of the pump performance to the product needs to thereby provide a series of pumps without tooling changes or new tooling. Several different pumps should be provided with different liquid volume to air volume ratios pet stroke with a single set of tooling by changing location of the sealing rings relative to the inlet and outlet port means. This problem is solved by the invention in accordance with claim 1. By axial adjustment of the ring carrying sleeves it is possible to attain a wide variety of product discharge characteristics of the pump. Thus, e.g. the liquid to air ratio can be predetermined as required by the type of product or spray pattern. Embodiments of the invention with further features of the invention will now be described with reference to the drawings. Figure 1 is a perspective view of a dispenser incorporating the pump of this invention Figure 2 is a fragmentary longitudinal sectional view of the dispenser of Figure 1 illustrating details of the pump, and together with an exemplary discharge orifice shown normal to the pump axis, but which may be oriented in any other direction relative thereto including parallel therewith Figure 3 is another somewhat similar fragmentary sectional view, showing details of the piston of the pump at the start of the pumping cycle, at which the contents of the container are sealed from the ambient to provide a self sealing shippable commercial dispenser Figure 4 is a similar sectional view showing the piston being advanced to a location short of the inlet port, but clearing the vent opening thereby providing communication between the head space of the container and the ambient Figure 5 is a similar sectional view showing the piston being further advanced past the inlet port communicating with the dip tube to thereby seal the inlet port while the outlet port remains closed for a predetermined length of travel of the piston Figure 6 is a similar sectional view showing the piston being further advanced with the outlet port opened to the pump chamber with the outlet port no longer in communication with the Invention opening to thereby expel product Figure 7 is a similar sectional view showing the piston at the end of pressure cycle with the piston shown fully advanced Figure 8 is a similar sectional view showing the piston at the early stages of retraction, during which the inlet port is sealed and the outlet remains in communication with the pump chamber to thereby draw air into the pump chamber for mixture with product to be dispensed during the ensuing pressure stroke, at the same time cleaning the discharge orifice to minimize the tendency of clogging Figure 9 is a similar sectional view showing the inlet and outlet ports closed which remains for a predetermined part of the travel of the piston during the retraction stroke Figure 10 is a similar sectional view with both the inlet and outlet ports sealed from the pump chamber, but the outlet port communicating with the vent opening to introduce air into the headspace of the container Figure 11 is a similar sectional view with the piston retracted to clear the inlet port after a predetermined length of travel after the outlet port has been closed to expose the pump chamber to the contents of the container and permit negative pres sure caused by piston movement to draw product up the dip tube into the pump chamber Figure 12 is a similar sectional view showing the piston further retracted to seal off the outlet opening from the vent opening, at which the piston is disposed at the end of its retraction or suction stroke Figure 13 is a perspective view of a trigger pump in corporating the pump of this invention with the pump housing being streamlined to reduce plastic material Figure 14 is a side elevational view thereof Figure 15 is a longitudinal sectional view of the pump of Figures 13 and 14 Figure 16 is an enlarged sectional view of an axially shiftable shut off pin Figure 17 is a similar enlarged sectional view of a rotatable shut off pin Figure 18 is a perspective view of Q pump of this invention in which a rotatable nozzle is provided to render the nozzle multidirectional and Figure 19 is an enlarged fragmentary longitudinal sectional view of the rotatable nozzle of Figure 18. DETAILED DESCRIPTION Referring to Figure 1, a dispenser package 10 is shown including a product or liquid containing bottle or receptacle 12, and an upper component retaining body or cap 14 containing the pump 16 of this invention. Referring now to Figure 2, the pump 16 includes a cylinder 18 and a piston 20. The cylinder includes an inlet port 22 which communicates with a downwardly depending dip tube 24. In addition, the cylinder 18 includes an outlet port 26 which may have coupled therewith a discharge orifice 28 extending in an upwardly direction for convenience in cosmetic apphsations. The piston 20 is advantageously provided with a series of annular sealing or contact rings that move along the interior surface of the cylinder 18. The clearance between the piston 20 and particularly its rings and the interior walls of the cylinder 18 shall be minimized to obtain the maximum efficiency of the pump 16. Towards this end, and in order to optimize the manufacture of the piston 20 at a reduced cost, these rings are advantageously part of a slidable sleeve adapted to be telescoped over and suitably secured to the piston tubular ring support 30 see Figure 3 . Thus, in the disclosed embodiment, three ring sleeves 32, 34 and 36 are disclosed which are made of a suitable resinous material, preferably a flexible, elastomerir material, having compatibility with the product to be dispensed.The tubular support 30, is preterably made of a relatively hard resinous material, also having compatibility with the product to be dispensed. At the leading or inner end 38 of the piston is positioned a first ring sleeve 32, having extending therefrom sealing ring 40 inclined forwardly and in the direction of compression so as to resist any tendency to collapse during the pressure stroke. As will be explained in detail, sealing ring 40 will operate to isolate and seal off the inlet port 22 from the vent opening 42, outlet port 26 and the pump chamber 44.A ring 41 may be located at the inner end of the piston and may extend from ring sleeve 32 for purposes of isolating the vent opening 42 from the outlet port 26 when the piston 20 is at its rest position fully retracted in the cylinder 18 to seal the container and provide a shipper for commercial purposes.The intermediary ring sleeve 34 includes an outwardly extending ring 46 inclined in a rearward direction to seal the outlet port 26 from the pump chamber and the outlet port from the vent opening 42, respectively. The rear ring sleeve 36 is provided with an outwardly extending forwardly inclined sealing ring 48 which seals the juncture between the rear end of the piston and the cylinder and also cooperates with the rearwardly inclined sealing ring 46 in isolating the outlet port 26 when in communication with the pump chamber 44. In this connection, the tubular support 30 is provided with the central coaxial bore 50 that opens at the piston forward end 38 into the pump chamber 44, and thereby provides an extension thereof This bore 50 may be eccentrical 4 ocated or be plural in number to obtain different discharge characteristics. For example if the bore is at the top center of the piston, more air will be discharged before liquid. If the bore is at bottom center, more product will be discharged before air.The rear of the piston is provided with an integral wall 52 that closes off the bore 50 at this location. A radial opening or passageway 54 in the tubular support 30 between the ring sleeves 34 and 36 serves to communicate the outlet port 26 with the bore 50 and pump chamber 44 during the pressure stroke. In order to facilitate the forward extension of the piston during the pressure stroke, a finger actuator button or trigger 56 may be employed, whereas to facilitate the retraction of the piston during the suction stroke a spring 58 may be deployed and be biased against the wall 52 and the inner closed wall 60 of the cylinder. Needless to say, this spring 58 should be compatible with the product to be dispensed. The sealing ring sleeves are pressed on to the tubular support 30 and may have a high interference fit or be fastened or adhered thereto in any appropriate manner. It is also contemplated that each ring 40, 41, 46 and 48 will be identical and mounted on its own identical sleeve for mounting on support 30. In this manner, the same mold cavity will produce any one of these ring and sleeve assemblies and, accordingly other tooling for such assemblies will not be required. This is particularly true if the rings are to be relocated to obtain different pump discharge and performance characteristics. It is further contemplated that no spacers will be necessary to keep the rings properly spaced. On the other hand, if this is not attainable, obviously spacers or other fixation means may be employed. The rings and sleeves are preferably molded of high density polyethylene and have a thickness dictated by this material. Other materials, such as elastomeric grade vinyl, polypropylene or nylon may be used. The proposed materials from which the other pump parts are made is preferably polypropylene. However, other more suitable and product compatable plastic materials may be employed for these parts and the rings and sleeves as well. When the piston 20 is in its fully retracted or extended position in the cylinder 18 as shown in Figure 3, outlet port 26 is isolated from the pump chamber 44 as well as from inlet port 22 and vent opening 42. At this particular disposition of parts of the pump, coupled with the sealing action provided by the ring 48, any unintentional dispensing of product is prevented and thus may be used as a shipping position if so desired, with or without a release element for maintaining this position during shipment and storage. In order to describe the operation of the pump 16, it will be assumed that the pump is primed and the piston 20 has completed a suction stroke and that there is product in the pump chamber 44 and piston bore 50, together with a certain amount of air, the calculation of which will be explained in detail shortly.If it is desired to dispense product and particularly the contents of the pump chamber 44 and piston bore 50, the pump 16 is activated by applying finger pressure to the actuator or trigger 56. As the piston 20 moves inwardly into cylinder 18 to initially clear vent opening 42 to the position of Figure 4, at which the outlet opening 26 and vent opening 42 communicate to vent the container head space and at which the forward sealing ring 40 is short of the inlet port 22, some product along with some air is forced back down the dip tube 24. As the piston 20 is moved forwardly and inserted into the cylinder 18, the position shown in Figure 5 is reached. In this position, ring 40 will seal off inlet opening 22 and ring 46 will maintain outlet opening 26 closed. The extent of travel of piston 20 forwardly before outlet port 26 is cleared by ring 46 will determine the extent of pressurization of the contents of chamber 44 before discharge. As will be explained the volume of this displacement must be taken up by compressing air within the pump chamber. Further movement of the piston 20 to the postion shown in Figure 6 permits sealing ring 40 to continue to close off the inlet port 22 from the pump chamber 44, which is now in communication with outlet port 26 as sealing ring 46 clears this port and communicates it with the space between this sealing ring and rear sealing ring 48 and the passageway 54 in the piston tubular support 30. Upon further insertion of the piston 20 in the cylinder 18, pressurization of the contents of the pump chamber 44 occurs to force product and air out of the prp charter through the bore 30, passageway 54, port 26 out to the discharge orifice 28. Eventually the end of the pressure stroke is reached, as shown in Figure 7 thereby ending the discharge of product out through the discharge orifice 28. The initiation of the suction stroke in filling of the pump chamber 44 is shown in sequence in Figure 7 to Figure 12.During this portion of the cycle, air will be sucked into the discharge orifice 28 and the port 26 to flush these passageways and prevent clogging. The amount of air withdrawn into the pump chamber 44 may be predetermined in order to assure the desired dispersion of the product. Eventually, the disposition of the piston 20 within the cylinder 18 reaches that shown inFigure 10, at which the forward sealing ring 40 still seals off the pump chamber 44 from the inlet port 22 and the intermediary sealing ring 46 has passed over and closes the outlet port 26 from the pump chamber 44 via the space between sealing rings 46 and 48 and the lateral piston passageway 54. Further retraction of the piston 20 creates a negative pressure in the pump chamber 44 until forward sealing ring 40 uncovers the inlet port 22.The volume of displacement before ring 40 uncovers inlet opening 22 generates a predetermined negative pressure.Upon the uncovering of opening 22, product will be sucked up into the pump from the dip tube 24 and inlet port 22 as a result of this negative pressure. Thus, the amount of product sucked into the pump chamber 44 will relate to the amount of piston travel after outlet port 26 is sealed off by ring 46 until ring 40 opens inlet port 22. In actual practice, during retraction of the piston 20 and because of the resistance to air flow mentioned in the above, there will be generated additional negative pressure that will be cumulative or additive during retraction of the piston when the outlet port 26 is opened and inlet port 22 is closed.It will be noted that sealing ring 41 at this point of travel is between the inlet port 22 and vent opening 42, which is now adapted to communicate with the outlet port 26 to thereby vent the container headspace and permit the introduction of air to replenish product removed from the container up through the dip tube 24 into the pump chamber 44 see Figure 11 .As the piston 20 is retracted further, more product will be pulled up through the dip tube 24 from the container because of the negative pressure or suction created in the pump chamber 44 to draw product therein. Most if not all of this additional product will be forced back into the dip tube 24 during the compression stroke until ring 40 seals off the inlet port 22. At the end of the retraction stroke of the piston 20, as shown in Figure 12 the vent opening 42 will be sealed from the outlet port 26 and product will be drawn into the pump chamber 44. The pump filler cycle and product dispensing cycle may then be repeated as often as desired following the foregoing sequence of steps of operation, with pump 16 remaining primed after initial priming. In designing a pump of this invention, the cylinder outlet port 26 should be connected to the space between rings 46 and 48, and thus through the piston passage 54 to the pump chamber 44. At the start of the intake stroke the cylinder inlet port 22 at this time should be located so as to be between rings 40 and 46, which seal it off from communication to the cylinder outlet port 26. At the start of the intake stroke and until the cylinder outlet port 26 is shut off by the passing of piston ring 46, air will be drawn into the pump chamber 44. When piston ring 46 passes the outlet port 26 no further air can enter the pump chamber 44 and the continued motion of the piston results in a pressure drop within the cylinder chamber 44 until piston ring 40 passes over the cylinder inlet port 22.Only after piston ring 40 has passed the cylinder inlet port 22 can liquid flow into the cylinder. The amount of liquid will of course depend upon the relationship between the hydraulic resistance, the driving force and time. When the piston 20 reaches the end of the intake stroke it then begins the exhaust stroke at which time material in the cylinder 18 will be forced to return through the cylinder inlet port 22 until it is reclosed by piston ring 40. After this further piston travel results in compression of the material inside the cylinder until piston ring 46 passes the cylinder outlet port 26 when material can leave the cylinder 18 until the piston 20 reaches the end of its compression and the cycle begins again. During the intake stroke the volume of air that can enter the cylinder is equal to the cross sectional area of the bore of the cylinder 18 times the distance between the piston ring 46 and the cylinder outlet port 26 measured at the start of the intake stroke. As will be explained, this is theoretical because in actual practice there will be resistance to air flow because of the size, length and diameter of the outlet passages.The amount of liquid that can be pumped into the cylinder per stroke is equal to the cylinder bore cross sectional area tines the ,ist sto E Int inus the air take in. The anount oi liquid availaole for discharge is equal to the liquid that was actually drawn in minus the amount returned as the exhuast stroke started and continuing until the inlet port was closed by ring 46. The dynamics of the pumps operation will always tend to make liquid intake fall short of theory. In this connection, a factor which must be considered in the pump design is the effect of air resistance during the air intake phase of the cycle. If there is any significant resistance to air flow into the cylinder 18 during that part of the intake stroke, then, when the outlet port 26 is closed there will be a residual negative pressure in the cylinder 18.This negative pressure will be added to the suction developed to draw in liquid and thus alter the air liquid ratio. The magnitude of the effect must be measured before finalizing the dimensions of any given pump if it is to meet a specific target. The liquid to air ratio is variable over a wide range.This may be accomplished by mere movement of ring 46. However, in actual practice this ratio is influenced by the resistance to air flow between the discharge orifice 28 and pump chamber 44. For example, the length of the passages between these locations and the diameters thereof as well as the size of the orifice 28 and inlet 22 must be considered. It is important that enough air is taken into the pump chamber 44 during the suction stroke to provide enough compression during the pressure stroke while both inlet port 22 and outlet port 26 are closed before ring 46 uncovers outlet port 26. In other words, there must be sufficient compressibility of the contents of pump chamber 44 to permit ring 46 to travel forwardly before opening the outlet port 26. Thus, there must be air for compressing in the pump chamber 44 that exceeds the volume of displacement incident to piston travel after.inlet port 22 and outlet port 26 are both closed. Stated another way, there must be an air volume in pump chamber 44 greater than the volume displaced by the piston travelling forwardly after inlet port 22 is closed and outlet port 26 is opened. With favorable location of the inlet port 22 the performance of the pump 16 under ideal conditions, depends upon the effective stroke length and the way that length is allocated to the periods when the outlet port 26 is open or closed. For example, during the intake stroke if the outlet port 26 is closed during most of the stroke then the cylinder 18 will contain mostly liquid by the end of the stroke. Conversely, if the outlet port 26 is closed during the greater portion of the intake stroke, the contents will be mostly air at the stroke end. Between these extremes of mostly air or mostly liquid lie the practical mixtures that the pump 16 will deliver. The pump 16 employs the same portion of the stroke to suck in liquid on intake that it uses to compress the contents during the compression stroke. In designing pumps it is useful to distinguish between real and effective stroke. The real stroke can continue after the piston 20 has passed the inlet port 22, but most if not all, the liquid that is drawn into the cylinder is by the piston 20 travelling beyond the inlet port 22, will be returned to the container before the inlet port 22 is closed during compression.The effective stroke is the distance travelled by the piston 20 from the beginning of the intake stroke until the inlet port 22 is just reached by the ring 40. The distance from ring 40 to the inlet port 22 during the suction stroke after outlet port 26 has been closed, controls the amount of product available to be discharged by the pump 16.The air to liquid ratio is a function of the distance travelled by ring 46 until the outlet port 26 is closed following the initiation of the intake stroke. The liquid volume is determined by the additional movement of ring 46 until the end of the intake or suction stroke is reached. Adjusting the location of ring 40 alters the volume to be returned to the inlet port 22 upon starting the compression stroke. Moving ring 46 alters the air liquid ratio and the maximum pressure as previously stated but not the total volume. Ring 48 acts as an external seal only, therefore its position is variable so long as it does not cross the outlet port 26. In all pump designs the inlet port 22 should be located close to one stroke length from the closed end of the cylinder.Some compromise may be necessary to provide for short strokes by the users. The minimum distance between rings 40 and 46 is the same as the distance from ring 40 to the inlet 22 plus the diameter of the inlet plus allowace for short stroke. The minimum distance between rings 46 and 48 is the same as the distance from ring 46 to the outlet plus the diameter of the outlet. It should be evident that the pump construction and manufacture of the present invention remain of a simple nature, as was the case with the embodiments of the above referenced application. The pump is extremely versatile and can function in various positions, such as horizontal, vertical or even inverted if so desired. It can be vertically reciprocal, actuated by trigger mechanism, or as shown, directly, with the discharge nozzle movable or stationary. The diameter of the pump cylinder 18 and piston 20 may be increased so as to be able to disperse a given large volume by a short stroke when coupled with a trigger mechanism providing an acceptable mechanical advantage. As explained, the position of the sealing rings 40, 46 and 48 can be adjusted to vary the ratio of air to product depending on the purpose sought to be achieved. Ring position will also govern the strength of the suction or negative pressure formed in the pump chamber 44 during the filling cycle as well as the compression available for dispensing the product during the compression cycle. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art, piston sealing ring placement and spacing, piston and cylinder port spacing and size, and piston lateral passageway location and size will vary depending on many factors, including avoidance of liquid lock and vapor lock, duration and amount of product dispensed with each stroke, venting and of course, the desired sealing against leakage. Reference is made to Figures 13 to 15 showing a skeletonized or streamline design of a trigger actuated pump, in which the pump 16 may be identical with the pump 16, but is actuated by means of a trigger 70 with an adequate mechanical advantage so that the desirable finger pressure may be utilized to move the piston through the compression stroke. Normally, the finger pressure for acceptable manipulation is approximately 2 to 3 90 to 140 N pounds O pulling force. As shown, the outlet port 26 leads to a laterally extending discharge orifice 28 for convenience of application of the product being pumped.Where desired and depending upon marketing and or consumer preference, a suitable shroud may overlie the skeletonized unit of this embodiment and be secured in place in a manner well known to those skilled in the art. In this manner, many different exterior pump appearances are possible with basically the same pump design. Shiftable pin 72 advantageously closes and seals the outlet port 26 particular during shipping and storage and opens this port when product is to be dispensed. Of course, the extent to which this port is opened ray be varied. The location of this shiftable pin 72 separate from the discharge nozzle 28 permits more latitude in the design of this nozzle because it need not provide an on off functicr.. In Figure 16, details of a preferred shiftable pin 72 is disclosed in which the pin is axially shiftable from a closed position to an open position. Although this may be done manually, it is of extreme importance that provisions are made to have this plug automatically shift to an open position from a closed position upon priming the trigger and pressurizing the pump chamber. In Figure 17, a rotatable pin 72 is shown which need only be twisted between open and closed positions. In Figures 18 and 19, a rotatable nozzle 74 is disclosed for permitting the discharge direction from the pump of this invention to be adjusted by the consumer. The pump of the present invention advantageously permits the handling of petroleum based and aggressive products. In this connectiOn, the pump may be designed with predetermined sealing rings and port placement for very aerated products to unaerated products. An important advantage of the present invention is that as a result of the segmentation of the sealing rings on their respective ring sleeves, new or another set of tooling is not necessary for purposes of changing air to product ratios thereby permitting the use of the same basic pump with different products. Towards this end, only the location of the sealing rings will be changed to accommodate the different products or to obtain a different air product ratio. As used throughout, the term ring is intended to cover all sealing elements, the shape of which will be dependent upon the transverse cross section of the tubular pump, whether it be circular, elliptical, straight sided or other geometrical form.Likewise, the term cylinder is intended to embrace these crosssectional configurations of tubes within which the piston is reciprocal. Thus, the several aforenoted objects and advantages are most effectively attained. Although several somewhat preferred embodiments have been disclosed and described in detail herein, it should be understood that this invention is in no sense limited thereby and its scope is to be determined by that of the appended claims.