# Carbinol containing polyimides and use thereof for the preparation of cross linked products.

## Abstract
Novel carbinol containing, anhydride terminated polyimides are prepared by reacting selected carbinol containing tetracarboxylic acid compounds e.g. bis methyl half ester of 3,3 ,4,4 benzhydroltetracarboxylic acid with polyfunctional polyamines e.g. 4,4 methylenedianiline, 1,6 hexanediamine, etc. . The polyimides may be crosslinked at low temperatures via a ring opening reaction between the carbinol and anhydride group s .

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A carbinol containing, anhydride terminated polyimide resin which is a block or random polymer having one or more of the formulas EMI14.1 wherein Ar and Ar are aromatic radicals with the attached carbonyl groups situated on adjacent carbon atoms in the radical R is an aliphatic, cycloaliphatic, aromatic, or hetereocyclic radical and p, q, n and m are integers with p being 1 or greater and q, n and m being 0 or greater. 2. The resin of Claim 1, wherein Ar isEMI15.1 3. The resin of Claim 1, wherein Ar isEMI15.2 andAr isEMI15.3 4. The resin of Claim 1, having the formulaEMI15.4 wherein Ar i EMI15.5 R isEMI15.6 EMI15.7 CH2 CH2 CH2 CH2 CH2 CH2 n is 0 10 and m is O. 5. The resin of Claim 2, wherein p is 1 10, n is 0 10, and p q and n m are 10 or less. 6. The resin of Claim 2, wherein p is 1 7, n is 0 7, and p q and n m are 7 or less. 7. The resin of Claim 2, wherein p is 1 4, n is 0 4 and p q and n m are 4 or less. 8. The crosslinked resin resulting from the heat curing of the carbinol containing, anhydride terminated polyimide resin of Claim 4, whereby crosslinks are formed via a ring opening reaction between said anhydride and said carbinol groups. 9. The crosslinked resin of Claim 8, heat cured for 1 hour at about 150 250 C. 10. The process of bonding substrate surfaces together, which comprises the steps of a applying to one or more of said surfaces the resin of Claim 4 and b bonding said surfaces together using a temperature and pressure sufficient to form said bonds.

## Description
NOVEL ANHYDRIDE TERMINATED POLYIMIDES AND THE CROSSLINKED PRODUCTS THEREOF This invention relates to novel anhydride terminated polyimides containing carbinol groups capable of self crosslinking the polyimides. It also relates to a process for their preparation and their use to form crosslinked products. Polyimides are synthetic organic resins characterized by repeating imide linkages in the polymer chain which may or may not be terminated with polymerizable or inert i.e. non polymerizable chemical groups.They are available in both linear and crosslinked forms and are noted for their outstanding chemical and physical properties, particularly their high temperature oxidative stability and strength. In addition to their use as adhesives and molded articles, they may be used as precured films and fibers, curable enamels, and laminating resins. The polyimides, especially the preferred aromatic polyimides, are extremely difficult to process due to their insolubility and extremely high softening points. Attempts to improve their processability have included the introduction of aliphatic segments into the otherwise aromatic polymers and the introduction of flexibilizing moieties such as alkylene, ether, or thio bridges into the polymer chain. The most common method of insuring processability is to apply the polymer in the form of the polyamic acid intermediate. However, during curing to the fully or partially imidized resin, an appreciable amount curing to the fully or partially imidized resin, an appreciable amount of a volatile by product e.g. water, alcohol, or mixtures thereof depending upon the starting tetracarboxylic acid compound is formed.This leads to the formation of voids when the resin is used as an adhesive between non porous substrates or for forming molded articles. In order to overcome these disadvantages, low molecular weight polyimides end capped with polymerizable groups such as unsaturated groups have been prepared. These end capped polyimides can be subsequently cured to void free, higher molecular weight resins since no volatile by product is formed. Polyimides end capped with 3,6 endo methylene 1,2,3,6 tetrahydrophthalimide and 3 ethynyiphenyl groups are respectively disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 3,528,950 issued Sept. 15, 1970 to H. R. Lubowitz and U.S. Pat. No. 3,879,349 issued Apr. 22, 1975 toN. Billow et al. However, the polyimides terminated with these groups require high cure temperatures, i.e. within the range of about 200 350 C, to effect further polymerization. The present invention provides novel anhydride terminated polyimides which contain self crosslinking carbinol moieties and preferably flexibilizing moieties which may be cured at low temperatures to crosslinked polyimides without the formation of a volatile by product.It also provides a process for their preparation by the reaction of polyfunctional primary amines with selected aromatic tetracarboxylic acid compounds containing carbinol moieties. It further provides improved adhesives and molded articles based on the crosslinkable or crosslinked polyimides. The carbinol containing, anhydride terminated polyimide resin is a block or random polymer having one or more of the formulas EMI3.1 wherein Ar and Ar are aromatic radicals with the attached carbonyl groups situated on adjacent carbon atoms in the radical R is an aliphatic, cycloaliphatic, aromatic, or hetereocyclic radical and p, q, n and m are intergers with p being 1 or greater and q, n, and m being 0 or greater. They are prepared by reacting a suitable carbinol containing tetracarboxylic acid compound, e.g. bis methyl half ester of 3,3 ,4, 4 benzhydroltetracarboxylic acid, with a polyfunctional aliphatic, cycloaliphatic, heterocyclic, or aromatic primary amine, preferably diamines containing flexibilizing moieties. Typically the reaction is carried C in an inert organic solvent at a temperature sufficient to effec olymerization and the ring closures to the irnide and anhydride. The anhydride terminated polyimides may be heat cured to provide crosslinked products, i.e. crosslinked via a ring opening reaction between the carbinol group s and the anhydride group s . Heat curing may be carried out at a low temperature, i.e. 100 2500C for 0.5 to 2 hours, preferably at 1500C for 1 hour. Suitable diaryl carbinol tetracarboxylic acid compounds include a. the dianhydrides having the formulaEMI4.1 b. preferably diester diacids having the formulaEMI4.2 or the isomers thereof, wherein Ar is as defined hereinabove and R1 andR2 are the same or different lower alkyl groups, preferably C1 C4, most preferably C1 C2. A typical diester diacid is the bis methyl half ester of 3,3 ,4,4 benzhydroltetracarboxylic acid whose prepara tion is described in Example I. It is possible to use a mixture of typical tetracarboxylic acid compounds e.g. 3,3 ,4,4 benzophenonetetracarboxylic acid dianhydride and the carbinol containing tetracarboxylic acid compound herein, provided that the carbinol containing compound is present in the resulting polyimide in an amount sufficient to crosslink the polyimide. Likewise it may be possible to selectively introduce the carbinol containing tetracarboxylic compound into the chain or into the terminal positions by forming an amine terminated polyimide or polyamic intermediate and then reacting the amine terminated intermediate with the tetracarboxylic acid compound desired for the anhydride termination. Such variations are within the skill of the practitioner to effect. Typical tetracarboxylic acid compounds are well known in the art.A listing of such dianhydrides may be found in U.S. Pat. No. 3,699,074 issued Oct. 17, 1972 to H. R. Lubowitz et al. The diester diacids may be derived from the above dianhydrides by reaction with an alcohol, preferably a lower alcohol. Suitable polyfunctional amines include the aliphatic, cycloaliphatic, heterocyclic, and aromatic amines well known in the art and listed in U.S. Pat. No. 3,528,950 cited previously . Aromatic diamines containing flexibilizing moieties, e.g. 4,4 methylenedianiline, 4,4 oxydianiline, 4,4 sulfonyldianiline, and 4,4 bis 3 aminobenzoyl diphenyl ether, are preferred. However, m phenylenediamine, an aromatic diamine which contains no flexibilizing moieties, is also useful herein. Aliphatic diamines suitable for use herein include bis 3 aminopropyl tetramethyl disiloxane and 1,6 hexanediamine. One or more of the polyamines or diamines described hereinabove are reacted in a suitable inert organic solvent with the carbinol containing tetracarboxylic acid compound or its admixture with other tetracarboxylic acid compounds . Reaction conditions used for the preparation of the anhydride terminated polyimides herein, will depend, not only upon the diamine used, but more particularly on the tetracarboxylic acid compound used. They will also depend upon the solvent selected and the concentration and molecular weight of the polyamic intermediate desired in the final solution to be imidized. The reactions are carried out under anhydrous conditions preferably using pure monomers and dry solvent. The solvents used should dissolve at least one of the reactants, preferably both. Suitable solvents include, for example, N,N dimethylformamide, N,N dimethylacetamide, dimethylsulfoxide, 1 methyl 2 pyrroli dinone, tetramethylurea, and the like. These solvents can be used alone or in combination with other solvents such as benzene, benzonitrile, dioxane, xylene, toluene, and cyclohexane. The carbinol containing tetracarboxylic acid compound or the mixture of the carbinol containing and other tetracarboxylic acid compound should be present in excess of the stoichiometric amount of diamine used. Preferably the mole ratio of tetracarboxylic acid compound to diamine is at least 1.1 1, preferably about 1.2 1 2 1. The molecular weight is controlled by the stoichiometry, as well as the reaction time and temperature. The self condensation of diaryl carbinol carboxylic acid dianhydrides is disclosed in U. S. Pat. No. 3,939,109 issued Feb. 17, 1976 to W. P. Barie et al. It is stated therein that this self esterification readily occurs when the dianhydride is dissolved in a solvent. It is therefore surprising that the anhydride terminated polyimides herein which contain carbinol groups do not self condense and crosslink in solution but remain stable during the final ring closing reaction s at temperatures as high as 1500C and during subsequent storage at room temperature. On removal of the solvent, such as in a typical adhesive application, the anhydride terminated polyimide crosslinks rapidly and without the formation of volatile by products. Curing at temperatures of 100 125 C for about 1 hour effects partial crosslinking, as indicated by the partial insolubility of the resins in their former solvent e.g.1 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone . More complete crosslinking, as indicated by their further insolubility, is accomplished by curing for about 1 hour at 1500 2500C. Longer curing times at the lower temperatures and shorter curing times at the higher temperatures may effect crosslinking, and it is within the skill of one in the art to determine appropriate curing times and temperatures. It may be possible to effect the cure at lower temperatures using known catalysts for this ring opening reaction, such as tertiary amines. Higher molecular weight polyimides, depending upon the amine used in their preparation, may require higher curing temperatures to exceed the softening point of the polymer. In the preferred method, a suitable diaryl ketone tetracarboxylic acid dianhydride is reacted with an anhydrous lower alcohol, preferably a lower alcohol such as methanol or ethanol, to form the corresponding diester diacid, which is then hydrogenated at 20 300C and 50600 psi until the rate of hydrogen uptake decreases sharply. Higher temperatures and pressures may lead to hydrogenolysis of the hydroxyl group.The diamine and solvent e.g. l methyl 2 pyrrolidinone are then added and the excess alcohol distilled off, preferably under moderate vacuum. The polymerization begins at approximately 100 C. The byproducts i.e. alcohol and water are distilled off, either by using a moderate vacuum and a temperature below the boiling point of the solvent or by adding a water insoluble solvent, such as toluene, and collecting the water alcohol mixture in a Dean Stark water trap. For the latter technique to work well a water soluble, lower alcohol, preferably methanol, should be formed as the by product. When the dianhydrides are used as the starting tetracarboxylic acid compound, it is preferable to maintain the tetracarboxylic acid compound in excess by adding the di amine, in portions, to a solution of the dianhydride in an anhydrous solvent. The initial polymerization to produce the polyamic acid intermediate occurs at a relatively low temperature. The subsequent ring closing reactions to the anhydride terminated polyimide produce only water as a by product. When more than one tetracarboxylic acid compound is used to prepare the anhydride terminated polyimides, they may be added together to form the random copolymer or they may be added and polymerized sequentially to form more ordered polymers such as block copolymers. It is desirable to store the anhydride terminated polyimides under dry conditions prior to use. Some hydrolysis will not, however, adversely effect the final crosslinking of the polyimides since the anhydride will reform during heat curing. Such hydrolysis will, however, result in the formation of a volatile by product with its resultant disadvantages. The anhydride terminated polyimides may be used as adhesives or moldings. They are usually used as smooth viscous solutions which can be applied to suitably prepared substrate surfaces if desired, they may be formulated with fillers, thickeners, pigments, etc. They may be used with or without supports such as glass fabric. Alternatively, they may be cast into a film from solution and then applied. If necessary, the substrates are allowed to stand to permit some or all of the solvent to evaporate. The treated surfaces to be bonded are assembled together by means of a clamp or press and the assembled substrates are heated to effect crosslinking of the polyimide. The resins may be converted to the dry form by precipitating with a suitable solvent i.e. one that will not react with the anhydride groups , such as acetone, and used to form filled or unfilled molded articles. They are especially useful therein since the subsequent curing to effect crosslinking via the ring opening reaction does not form a volatile by product and the molded articles are void free.Compression molding temperatures and pressures can be determined by the skilled practitioner. The anhydride terminated polyimides may also be blended with various epoxy resins and then co cured by heating in the presence of the amine catalysts typically used in curing epoxy resins. In the uncured state, the epoxy resin acts as a secondary solvent for the polyimides. The cured adhesive shows increased strength and, when filled with silver powder or other conductive metal powders, shows increased electrical conductivity. It can be appreciated that a large number of variations may be effected in the selection of carbinol containing tetracarboxylic acid compounds, polyfunctional amines, and optional tetracarboxylic acid compounds, as well as in the preparation and use of the procedures herein, without materially departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Such variations will be apparent to those skilled in the art and are to be included within the scope of this invention. In the examples which follow, all parts and percentages are given by weight and all temperatures are in degrees Celsius unless otherwise noted. Inherent viscosities were determined on 1 g. dl. solutions at 25 C in 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone. EXAMPLE I Tnis example describes the preparation of an anhydride terminated polyimide by the reaction of the bis methyl half ester of 3,3 ,4,4 benzhydroltetracarboxylic acid and 4,4 methylenedianiline and its subsequent curing to the crosslinked product. It also describes the preparation of the half ester. Preparation of Bis methyl half ester of 3,3 ,4,4 Benzhydroltetracarboxylic Acid. A total of 241.7 g. 0.75 mole of 3,3 ,4,4 benzophenonetetra carboxylic dianhydride was refluxed with stirring for 2 hours with 400 ml. of methanol. The solution was cooled and charged to a 1 1. autoclave along with 100 ml. methanol, 10 g. of 5 palladium on activated carbon, and 5 drops of N,N diethyl nicotinamide. Hydrogenation of the resulting bis methyl half ester of 3,3 ,4,4 benzhydroltetracarboxylic acid was carried out at 25 300C and 100 150 psi until the rate of hydrogen uptake decreased sharply. The solution was gravity filtered, and the filter paper and its contents were washed with methanol. The yield was 584.6 g., which corresponded to 779.5 g. of solution per mole. The C13 NMR spectrum indicated that hydrogenation of the ketone to carbinol was 90 complete and that there was no hydrogenolysis of the alcohol i.e. no CH2 formation . Preparation of the Anhydride Terminated Polyimide Tetracarboxylic acid half ester diamine mole ratio 4 3 A 500 ml. round bottom, 4 neck flask was charged with 0.12 moles 93.5 g. of the above solution containing the half ester, 0.09 moles 17.8 g. of 4,4 methylenedianiline, and 85 ml. of 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone. The methanol was removed by vacuum distillation up to a pot temperature of llO C and a vacuum of 20 mm Hg. A total of 65 ml. of toluene was added and the flask was fitted with a 30 ml. Dean Stark receiver. The solution was refluxed until the water methanol mixture ceased to evolve about 3 4 hours . The toluene was then removed by vacuum distillation. The resulting anhydride terminated polyimide had an inherent viscosity of 0.10. It was cast on a glass plate as a 0.002 in. film and cured for 1 hour at 1500C. The resulting polymer was insoluble in 1methyl 2 pyrrolidinone, indicating that it was crosslinked. The film was tough and adhered strongly to the glass. EXAMPLES II XII Additional anhydride terminated polyimides and the crosslinked products thereof were prepared using the procedure of Example I and the bis methyl half ester of 3,3 ,4,4 benzhydroltetracarboxylic acid described therein. The diamine used, the tetracarboxylic acid half ester diamine mole ratio, number n of recurring units, and the inherent viscosity of the resulting polyimide are given below.Experiment Diamine Mole n Inherent No. Ratio Viscosity II 4,4 Oxydianiline 4 3 2 0.22 III 4,4 Sulfonyldianiline 4 3 2 0.17 IV 4,4 Bis 3 aminobenzoyl diphenyl ether 4 3 2 0.14 V bis 3 aminopropyl tetramethyl disiloxane 4 3 2 0.37 Experiment Do gamine Mole n Inherent No. Ratio Viscosity VI m phenylenediamine 4 3 2 0.21 VII 1,6 hexanediamine 4 3 2 0.19VIII 4,4 methylenedianiline 2 1 0 0.17 IX 4,4 methylenedianiline 5 4 3 0.18 X 4,4 methylenedianiline 6 5 4 0.29 XI 4,4 methylenedianiline 9 8 7 0.09 XII 4,4 methylenedianiline 12 11 10 0.19 The resulting polyimides were cast as films, as described above.Films II X crosslinked after 1 hr. at 15O0C film XI crosslinked after 1 hr. at 200 C and film XII crosslinked after 1 hr. at 2500C. EXAMPLE XIII The following example illustrates the use of the polymer of Example I as an adhesive. Two steel bars having the dimensions 1.27 by 10.16 by 0.32 cm.were used as the test materials to be bonded. Prior to application of the adhesive, the surfaces were scoured with Scotchbrite trade name for a scouring pad marketed by 3M Co. and then cleaned with acetone.A small amount of the adhesive was spread along the cleaned surface of one bar near one edge. The second bar was pressed against the first bar to form an adhesive film such that there was 1.27 cm. overlap for each bar and hence a bonding area of 1.61 cm. The bars were clamped together by means of a spring clip and cured for 1 hr. at 1500C. The tensile shear strength was determined by pulling the bars apart with an Instron Testile Tester at a crosshead operation speed of 0.254 cm. min. The average of 5 samples was 78 kg. cm.2 1110 lb. in.2 . EXAMPLE XIV The following example illustrates the use of a mixture of carbinol and non carbinol containing tetracarboxylic acid compounds. The polymerization was carried out using the procedure of Example I except that 0.06 mole 19.3 g. of 3,3 ,4,4 benzophenonetetracarboxylic acid dianhydride was refluxed for 2 hr. with 40 ml. of methanol, the solution was cooled, and 0.06 mole 46.8 g. of the bis methyl half ester of 3,3 ,4,4 benzhydroltetracarboxylic acid was added to give 0.12 mole of combined tetracarboxylic acid compounds. The diamine used, mole ratio of tetracarboxylic acid compounds to diamine, and inherent viscosity of the resulting polyimide is given below. Experiment Mole Inherent No. Do gamine Ratio Viscosity XIV 4,4 methylenedianiline 4 3 0.21 The resulting polyimide was cast as a film, as described above it crosslinked after 1 hour at 1500c.