# Grill.

## Abstract
There is described an apparatus such as a grill for roasting comestibles, more particularly meat, which com prises a series of electric resistors 3 which are adjustably mounted above a container 6 to be filled with water.

## Claims
CLAIMS. 1. Apparatus suchasa grill for roasting comestibles, more particularly meat, which comprises a series of electric resistors 3 which are adjustably mounted above a container 6 to be filled with water. 2. Apparatus as defined in claim 1, in which said resistors 3 are adjusted in the operating position thereof, at a level above the water inside said container 6 which results in heating the water and generating vapour thereby. 3. Apparatus as defined in either one of claims 1 and 2, in which said resistors 3 form a plane and are mounted on a rotatable component 4 , whereby said resistors 3 may be brought to the vertical position and the horizontal position.

## Description
Grill . This invention relates to an apparatus such as a grill, for roasting comestibles, mainly but not necessarily meat, Grills fitted with a series of electric resistors or an electric hot plate are known. Meat or possibly fish may be roasted with such devices without adding fat, which may be considered as an advantage from a medical or hygienic point of view. Meat prepared with such devices or grills dries out easily, which may be considered as a heavy drawback. This phenomenom does not enhance the spreading or generalizing of such roasting methods or devices or similar. The invention has now for object to provide an apparatus which obviates the above defined drawback and which does not only make it possible to roast the comestibles without adding fat, but also to avoid drying out or part burning thereof. For this purpose, the apparatus according to the invention comprises a series of electric resistors which are adjustably mounted above a container to be filled with water, Further according to the invention, said resistors are adjusted in working position at a level above the water inside said container which results in heating the water and releasing vapour thereby. Advantageously, said resistors form a plane and are mounted cri a rotatable component whereby said resistors may be brought in the vertical position and the horizontal position. Other details and advantages of the invention will stand out from the following description given by way of non limitative example and with reference to the accompanying drawing. The single figure inihe drawing is a perspective showing of an apparatus fitted with two grills, whereby the one grill lies in the operating position, while the other one has been rotated to the vertical position. The apparatus as shown in the figure is fitted with two grills and 2 which have the same structure. Said grills are comprised ofa series of heating resistors 3 which are mounted on a rotatable component 4. The horizontal adjustment of the grills is obtained automatically due to the presence of supports 5 which come to bear in the operating position of the grills, against the casing of the apparatus. Underneath each grill is provided a tank 6 which is filled with water. The level of said water should be high enough to let the heatingresistors heat up the water to generate water vapour or steam. Such water vapours have an advantageous.influence on the roasting of meat, by preventing part burning and drying out thereof. The generated vapours result in the comestibles and more particularly the meat swelling during the roasting, which was not possible up to now when using apparatuses fitted with rod like resistors arranged above a so called saucepan, or with a hot plate. The maintenance and cleaning of the resistors are also favourably influenced by the hot water vapours. Indeed the meat does not adhere any more or any way less strongly to the metal the resistors are made of, and scraps which would still be baked on said components are easily removed. A further cause of enhancing the taste of the meat may be found in the fact that smoke generating due to meat juice dropping on the hot bottom plate as it is the case with the previous grills, is no more to be feared. Such smoke generating by grills of the previously known type did spoil the meat taste. The presence of a water filled tank underneath the heating resistors prevents such smoke generating. It is clear that the invention is not limited to the above embodiment and that many changes may be brought thereto without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. For instance, the heating resistors do not have necessarily to have the shape shown in the figure and they do not have either to swing about a horizontal axis,