# A silver catalyst and a method for the preparation thereof.

## Abstract
A silver catalyst comprising a metal, a metal alloy or an at least partially reduced metal oxide in the form of finely divided particles on the surface of a sinter resistant carrier and silver deposited on said particles, whereby the outer surface of the particles consists essentially of monometallic silver.

## Claims
CLAIMS. 1. A silver catalyst comprising a metal, a metal alloy or an at least partially reduced metal oxide in the form of finely divided particles on the surface of a sinter resistant carrier and silver deposited on said particles, whereby the outer surface of the particles consists essentially of monometallic silver. 2. The silver catalyst of claim 1 wherein the finely divided particles are rhenium, a metal of the second or third period of the Group VIII metals of the Periodic Table of Elements or an alloy of said metals which particles have a particle size of maximally about 10 nanometer. 3. The silver catalyst of claim 1 wherein the finely divided particles are at least partially reduced tin dioxide which particles have a maximum particle size of less than about 25 nanometer. 4. The silver catalyst of claims 1 3 wherein the carrier is a sinter resistant oxidic material. 5. A method for preparing the catalyst of claim 1, said method comprising the steps of suspending a carrier whose surface is homogeneously covered with particles of a metal, a metal alloy or an at least partially reduced metal oxide in a solution of a silver compound exhibiting an appreciable interaction with the surface of the non covered carrier material, subsequently reducing the silver compound so as to deposit the silver exclusively on the particles already present and separating the silver laden carrier from the liquid and drying same. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the particles are rhenium, a metal of the second or third period of Group VIII metals of the PeriodicTable of Elements or an alloy of said metals having a maximum particle size of less than about 10 nanometer or an at least partially reduced metal oxide having a maximum particle size of less than about 25 nanometer. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the reduction of the silver compound and the separation of the silver laden carrier fromthe liquid is carried out in an oxygen free atmosphere. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein the catalyst, after drying, is subjected to an oxidizing treatment at elevated temperature. 9. A method for carrying out a catalysed chemical reaction in the presence of a solid metal catalyst using the silver catalyst of claim 1. 10. The method of claim 10 wherein the catalyzed chemical reaction is the preparation of ethylene oxide.

## Description
A silver catalyst and a method for the preparation thereof. The invention relates to a silver catalyst and to a method for the preparation thereof, in which the silver is applied to a thermostable inert carrier. Solid, metallic catalysts are widely employed in a variety of industrial applications such as isomerization, hydrodimerization, hydrogenation, alkylation, oxidation and cyclization. For maximum efficiency, the metallic catalysts are advantageously prepared having a large catalytically active surface area per unit volume of catalyst. In general, to obtain a desirably high catalytic surface area,the catalytically active component is prepared as finely divided as possible. Unfortunately, at the elevated temperatures normally employed in catalytic operations, most metallic catalysts sinter rapidly, thereby reducing the catalytically active surface area. In order to obtain the required thermal stability, the catalytically active component is generally applied to a sinter resistant, inert carrier. Although the inert carrier dilutes the catalyst, the thermal stability provided by the carrier renders the long term, stable activity of well produced supported metal catalysts generally much more elevated than the activity of unsupported metal catalysts. It appears to be particularly difficult to apply silver or silver compounds extremely finely divided onto conventional carrier materials such as Si02 and Al203. For example it is usual to impregnate the carrier with a solution of the catalytically active material, whereafter the liquid is removed by drying. After drying the compound is converted into a metal by a thermal treatment, e.g. by gas phase reduction. Unfortunately, impregnation, drying and thermal treatment,using a silver compound, leads to a broad range of sulver particle sizes. In addition to relatively small particles many very large silver particles are present. It has therefore been proposed to deposit the silver from a solution onto the carrier which is suspended in the solution. Thus, in German Offenlegungsschrift 1,963,827, a method is proposed in which silver is deposited on a suspended carrier from a dissolved silver complex. This method leads to much better results than impregnation and drying. Silver particles having sizes down to 5 to 20 nm can be applied onto carriers, such as SiO2 or Al2O3. The smaller of the above sizes is obtained at low loadings of the carrier with silver, whereas higher loadings lead to a larger minimum size. As the silver surface area per unit volume depends on both the size of the individual particles and the particle density, i.e. the silver loading, it is desirable to produce very small supported silver particles at higher loadings. With other metals it is possible to deposit still smaller particles at high loadings onto carriers. Metals of Group VIII of the PeriodicTable, for example, can be applied to carrier materials as particles of 0.5 1 nm. The present state of the art renders this impossible with silver particles at high silver loadings, that is to say a loading higher than about 2 by weight. A support highly loaded by very small silver particles provides a large silver surface area per unit volume and thus exhibits an elevated activity. Consequently, a reaction rate technically required can be obtained at relatively low temperatures. Since especially with oxidation reactions, a better selectivity can be expected at low temperatures, it is important to produce very small supported silver particles. There is, however, still another difficulty, owing to which extremely small silver particles are not available for technically feasible catalytic reactions. Silver particles having dimensions of minimally 5 to 20 nm are unstable on the conventional carrier materials, such as SiO2 and A1203, at higher temperatures. The dimension of the silver particles increases relatively rapidly at elevated temperature up to 100 nm or even more. This takes place, either owing to migration by silver particles as such across the carrier surface, or by dissociation of Ag atoms or ions of the particles, followed by migration to larger silver particles. This undesirable growth of silver particles also occurs, if the starting product comprises small silver particles homogeneously distributed throughout the carrier surface. According to the present invention a silver catalyst having stable, extremely small silver particles e.g. about 3 nm attached to a sinter resistant carrier material and which catalyst does not exhibit the above mentioned deficiencies is provided. The catalyst according to the invention is a metallic composite, comprising a metal, an alloy or an at least partially reduced metal oxide in the form of finely divided particles on the surface of a sinter resistant carrier and silver deposited on said particles, whereby the outer surface of the particles consists essentially of monometallic silver. As requirements for the particles, that are anchoring compounds for the silver layer thereon, the following can be mentioned. They must be able to be extremely fine divided on the support in their metallic and or oxidic form. Further they must exhibit a sufficiently strong bond to the chosen carrier to essentially completely inhibit migration of the particles at conditions of use of the catalyst and they must also exhibit a sufficiently strong adherence to metallic silver to prevent substantially migration of silver particles at condition of use of the catalyst. The most advantageous combination of particles and support can easily be determined by the skilled artisan. Examples of metals or metal oxides to be used as anchoring compounds on the carrier are lead, lead oxide, bismuth and bismuth oxide. Preferably if metal is used for the particles theyconsist of renium or a metal selected from the second or third period of the group VIII metals of the Periodic Table, or an alloy of said metals.The metals of the second or third period of Group VIII of thePeriodic Table include platinum, palladium, iridium, rhodium, osmium and ruthenium. The Group VIII metals preferably employed are those metals which do not form with silver a continuous solid solution, but exhibit a limited solubility, with platinum being the most preferred. If the particles consist of an at least partially reduced metal oxide, preferably reduced tindioxide is used. In the case that the particles consist of a metal or an alloy, the particle size is preferably maximally about 10 nanometer, whereas in the case the particles consist of an at least partially reduced metal oxide, the particle size is preferably maximally about 25 nanometer. The carrier or support material is suitably any normally solid material onto which the metal or metal oxide, in particular renium or the Group VIII metal can be deposited in a finely divided form, e.g. at a particle size of less than about 5 nanometer in the case of rhenium and the group VIII metal and at a particle size of less than about 20 nanometer in the case of the partially reduced metal oxide. The carrier material most advantageously employed in the practice of the present invention is dependent on a variety of factors including its surface area, porosity and pore size. In general, carrier materials conventionally employed heretofore in the preparation of solid, metallic catalysts are advantageously employed in the preparation of the metallic catalyst of the present invention. Representative of such carrier materials are silicon dioxide SiO2 , aluminiumoxide Al 203 , ion exchange zeolites and the like. The metal or metal oxide can be deposited in the form of finely divided particles by any of a variety of techniques well known in the art. For example, the support material canbe impregnated with a solution of a metal salt followed by the evaporation of the solvent.Another method for incorporating the metal on the surface of the support consists of depositing the metal from a solution thereof by precipitation through a chemical reaction. Yet another method for depositing the metal on the carrier material involves liquid phase reduction of metal ions to a metallic state in an aqueous suspension of the support. Illustrative of these and other methods for depositing the metal on the carrier material are described in Structure of Metallic Catalysts, J.R. Andersson, Academic Press, London 1975 . The invention also relates to a process for preparing the catalyst according to the invention. According to this process a carrier whose surface is homogeneously covered with finely divided particles of an anchoring compound as earlier defined, is suspended into a solutionof a silver compound exhibiting an appreciable interaction with the surface of the non covered carrier material, after which the silver compound is reduced so as to deposit the silver exclusively on the metal particles already present and the silver loader carrier is separated from the liquid and dried. According to a preferred embodiment of the invention, the catalyst so obtained is subjected to an oxidizing treatment at elevated temperature. By this oxidation, the distribution of silver over the surface of the particles of the anchoring compound is made uniform and with thin silver layers a surface alloy that might have been formed is decomposed into a pure silver layer. According to the invention it has been found, that silver compounds canbereduced in such a manner that the metallic silver is deposited solely onto the particles of the anchoring compound,whereas reduction does not proceed in the liquid proper or on the uncovered carrier surface.The result is, that the silver is exclusively deposited at the anchoring particles previously present on the carrier surface. Thus the process according to the invention provides thermostable silver surfaces. Because in many catalytic reactions the selectivity of silver alloys is inferior to that of pure silver surfaces, sufficient silver must be deposited on the particles of the anchoring compound originally present, so that, as prepared or after the oxidation, if required, a monometallic silver surface is obtained. That it is possible to deposit sufficient silver on the surface without the formation of large, pure silver particles by reduction in the liquid or on the uncovered carrier, is surprising. In this respect it is observed, that it is known from Dutch patent application 73,16236 that certain compounds canbeselectively reduced on surfaces of noble metals. The result of this prior process is a surface alloy of the reduced material with the metal originally present.This method has been used in particular with metal powders, such asPd black, where no carrier is present. Indeed, the requirement that the material to be reduced must exhibit a sufficiently strong interaction with the surface of the pure carrier has not been appreciated. In these cases, the reduction of the dissolved material becomes very slow when approximately a monolayer of reduced atoms is depositedonthe surface of the metal particles originally present. As the examples of the metnioned application show, it is possible to deposit more than a monolayer of Ge on Pd and Ru. This is caused by the fact that the Ge deposited on the surface is slowly dissolved in the palladium or ruthenium with the formation of an alloy. The result is that the Pd or Ru is again partially exposed, and fresh Ge can be deposited on the metal.The dissolution of Ge proceeds very slowly.As acmsequence, the reduction must be continued for 100 hours for an amount corresponding to approximately 6 monolayers to be incorporated in the Ru lattice. In Examples IV and V of the Stamicarbon application, too, the reduction process is continued for a long time approx. 50 hours for the Pd to absorb Ge or Sb to an appreciable extent. From this, it can indeed be concluded that the reduction of the dissolved component only proceeds on the noble metal surface. When the noble metal surface is fully covered with Ge or Sb the reduction stops.It is only if, from diffusion of the Ge or Sb into the noble metal atoms under the formation of an alloy, the noble metal atoms at the surface are again exposed, that Ge or Sb is again reduced. A similar observation relates to Example II of Dutch patent application 73,16236, in which rhenium is caused to be incorporated by ruthenium and whereby it was found that the rhenium had been fully incorporated by the ruthenium. In addition, the disclosed method can result in the undesirable formation of large metal particles in the liquid phase. Formation of large particles is generally observed with metal ions that can be reduced rather easily. After deposition of a relatively small amount onto the surface of the metalparticles present initially on the surface of the support growth of large particles in the solution proper proceeds. An example for the growth of large particles is gold. According to the invention, the reduction of the dissolved silver compound surprisingly proceeds even if the surface of the metal or metal oxide originally present is covered with a thick layer of silver.This means, that although a surface alloy may be formed after the liquidphase reduction, the reduced silver is not fully absorbed by the anchoring particles originally present, so that in the catalyst according to the invention the catalytically active surface is indeed a silver surface. In the process according to the invention, the silver is deposited at the surface of the metal or metal oxide first applied by suspending the carrier whose surface is homogeneoulsy covered with the metal or metal oxide particles in a liquid solution of a compound containing unreduced silver and subsequently reducing the silver by contacting the suspension with a suitable reducing agent. Any reducing agent capable of reducing the unreduced silver compound can be employed in the subsequent reduction of silver and deposition of the metallic silver on the surface of the metal or metal oxide initially deposited. Both gaseous reducing agents and liquid reducing agents which are soluble in the silver containing solution can be employed. Representative gaseous reducing agents include hydrogen, carbon monoxide inert gases containing hydrogen and the like with hydrogen being preferred. Representative liquid reducing agents include hydrazine, hydroxyl amine, formaldehyde and glucose, with hydrazine and formaldehyde being preferred. In general, the liquid reducing agents are more preferably employed in the practice of the present invention. The silver is reduced at conditions such that metallic silver is deposited essentially exclusively at the anchoring metal or metal oxide particles, previously applied. For the purposes of this invention, the silver is presumed to be essentially exclusively deposited on the anchoring compound when essentially no silver particles are formed in the liquid phase during reduction. Preferably less than 2, more preferably less than one, weight percent of the reduced silver will form as particles in the liquid phase during reduction of the silver. It has surprisingly been found that the desired result is obtained only if a silver containing dissolved compound is utilized that exhibits an appreciable interaction with the surface of the non covered carrier material. The expression appreciable interaction means, that the electrostatic charges of the silver compound and the surface of the support are favourable and that the silver compound is hence markedly adsorbed by the support. If an acid reacting support such as SiO2, which at pH levels above 2 is negatively charged, is used, positively charged complexes of silver such as Ag NH3 2 are advantageously employed. When employing an alkaline reacting support such as Awl203, which generally is positively charged below pH levels of about 7, negatively charged silver compounds such as Ag EDTA are preferably employed. The silver containing compound is advantageously employed in amounts sufficient to essentially completelycover the surface of the anchoring particles with metallic silver upon subsequent reduction of the silver. Such amounts will vary depending on a variety of factors including the specific anchoring particles employed, their specific surface and the desired properties of the resulting catalyst. For example, if the metal in the anchoring particles forms an alloy with silver, generally greater amounts of the silver containing compound are employed. Specifically, although an alloy of the silverwith a Group VIII metal can be initially formed upon the deposition of the silver on the metal surface, sufficient additional amounts of the silver are employed such that upon further decomposition, a composite having a surface, comprising monometallic silver is obtained. In the case when an oxide is used as anchoring particle, generally less amounts of silver compound can be used. The solution of the silver containing compound is preferably a solution of the silver containing compound dissolved in an aqueous liquid. By the term aqueous liquid is meant water inclduing aqueous liquids such as alkaline or acidic aqueous solutions or aqueous salt solutions or a solution of water with a water miscible liquid, preferably a polar liquid such as a lower alcohol, e.g., methanol, ethanol or propanol a lower ketone, e.g. acetone or the like or similar reducing compounds. Less preferably, organic liquids, in which a suitable silver containing compound is soluble can be employed. The conditions most advantageously employed for reducing the silver are dependent on a variety of factors, including the specific anchoring compound employed, the specific reducing agent and silver compound employed, as well as the properties of the carrier and the desired properties of the resulting catalyst composite and the temperature of the reacting solution. In general, when using a gaseous reducing agent,the reducing gas us bubbled through the stirred, silver containing liquid solution having the anchoring particles on the carrier suspended therein. When employing a liquid reducing agent, the liquid reducing agent, either neat or in solution with a miscible liquid is slowly added to the stirred silver containing solution, so as to avoid high local concentrations of the reducing agent in the liquid. The reduction of the silver is conducted at a temperature sufficient to cause deposition of silver essentially exclusively at the surface of the anchoring compound, without the formation of significant amounts of silver metal particles in the bull medium of the solution. The adjustment of the temperature is a highly suitable means to effect that reduction only takes place on metal particles previously applied. Whereas, from a given temperature upwards, reduction in the liquid or on the pure carrier surface proceeds, at a lower temperatures reduction is limited to the metal particles previously applied. Although such temperatures will as said vary depending on the reducing agent, anchoring metaland the silver compound employed, in general, temperatures up to the boiling point of the liquid are advantageously employed herein. For example, the reduction, in general, is advantageously conducted at a temperature of less than 150C preferably less than iOOC using platinum or tin oxide as the anchoring compound.Alternatively,with other anchoring compounds such as zinc, oxide or a combination of zinc and tin oxides higher temperatures may be required. The reduction of the silver is continued until the desired amounts of metallic silver are deposited on the surface of the Group VIII metal.The amounts of the deposited metallic silver are easily determined using an ion selective electrode which measures the concentration of the silver in solution the decrease in the concentration of silver ions in solution from which can be determined the amounts of silver subsequently deposited on the surface of Group VIII metal . In general, the reduction of the silver is allowed to continue for from 0.5 to 2 hours. To prevent reoxidation of the metallic silver deposited on the anchoring compound, the reduction is preferably conducted in an oxygen free atmosphere. Upon completionof the reduction reaction, the resulting composite which now comprises the Group VIIIetal having silver on its surface, is separated preferably in an oxygen free atmosphere from the liquid reduction medium and dried at elevated temperatures from 20 to 2000C for periods sufficient to make the composite sensibly dry, i.e.dry to touch. The resulting composite can be used as prepared. Optionally, but preferably, the resulting composite is oxidized at an elevated temperature subsequent to drying. Such oxidation unexpectedly distributes the silver more uniformly over the metal surfaces. Such oxidation is preferably conducted by contacting the resulting composite with an oxygen containing gas, e.g.air, at temperatures from 200 to 550 OC for periods from at least 0.5 hours on. The metal catalysts of this invention exhibit exceptional thermal stability and are useful as catalysts in a variety of industrial applications including oxidative dehydrogenation, dehydrocyclization and oxidation. The monometallic surface catalyst of the present inventon are particularly useful in the preparation of ethylene oxide by the oxidation of ethylene. The following examples are set forth to illustrate the advantages of this invention and should not be construed to limit its scope. In the examples, all parts and percentages are by weight unless otherwise indicated.Example I. Using conventional techniques, platinum Pt is deposited on a silicon dioxide SiO2 carrier material in a finely divided particulate form having a mean particle size of 23 A. Sufficient amounts of the platinum are deposited such that the resulting Pt Si02 combination contained 6 weight percent platinum based on the total weight of the combination. The BET surface of the combination is measured as 189 square meters m2 g and at a room temperature, the catalyst is found to adsorb 3.30 ml H2 g of catalyst. An aqueous solution of 10 Mole liter Ag NH3 2 is prepared. To 100 g of the aqueous solution is added about 5 g of thePt SiO2 combination. To the resulting mixture is added 1.2goof an aqueous solution of 37 weight percent formaldehyde, dissolved in 100 ml water, which corresponds to about 4 g of reducing agent per gram of dissolved silver. The whole amount of reducing agent is added in a period of 1 minute. During and subsequent to this addition1 the aqueous solution of the dissolved, unreduced silver compound is agitated and maintained at a temperature of 5 C. The reduction caused by the formaldehyde takes place rapidly as evidenced by the rapid decreae of the silver concentration in the aqueous solution, with essentially all the silver ions being reduced after a period of about 60 minutes. At this time, the resulting composite which consists of Ag coated Pt SiO2 is removed from the solution and dried at 1200C for a period of 16 hours. Upon examination of the dried composite under a transmission electron microscope, the composite shows irregularly shaped metal particles, sometimes rod like, due to the deposition of the metallic silver exclusively adjacent to the regularly shaped platinum particles.The final composite comprises 2 weight percent silver based on a total weightof the composite and about 39 atomic percent silver based on the total atoms of the silver and platinum. The number average particle size of the silver coated platinum particles as determined by transmission electron microscopy is 3 nanometer.Example II. Using similar techniques as employed in Example I silver is deposited on a Pt SiO2 combination to form a solid, metallic silver catalyst which comprises about 5.5 weight percent silver based on the total weight of the catalyst composite and about 64 atomic percent silver based on the total number of atoms of platinum and silver in the composite.This composite is found, when examined under a transmission electron microscope, to have number average particle size of about 5 nanometer.To demonstrate the effectiveness of the present invention in completely covering the platinum particles with silver, the infrared spectra of carbon monoxide adsorbed on the catalyst composite is measured. The absorption band at 2090 cm is due to the carbon monoxide absorbed on the non covered reduced platinum sites.The intensity of the 1 2090 cm band is 0.08. This compares favourably with a carbon monoxide absorbance of thePt SiO2 combination of about 1.68 at 2090 cm . This absorbance data confirms the fact that only minimal amounts of the platinum surface are uncoated with silver.Example III. A silver catalyst is prepared using similar techniques to those employed in preparing the catalyst of Example II, except that the aqueous solution of formaldehyde is added continuously over a period of 30 minutes. The resulting catalyst is found to comprise about 5.7 weight percent silver based on the total weight of the silver catalyst and have a particle size of about 3 to 10 nanometer.Example IV. A silver catalyst is prepared using techniques.to similar those of Example III except that silver comprises only 1.5 weight percent of the final catalyst composite. The carbon monoxide absorbance of this 1 catalyst at 2090 cm is shown to be 0.61 which indicates that greater amounts of the platinum surfaces are not coated with silver than the catalyst prepared in Examples I Ill. However, the catalyst is still usable in many commercial chemical processes and is an example of the present invention.Example V. Using the method of Example III, a silver catalyst is prepared using hydrazine as the reducing agent, but at a temperature of the reaction solution of 4.50C. The final catalyst is found to contain 5.3 weight percent silver based on the total weight of the catalyst 1 composite. The carbon monoxide absorbance of the catalyst at 2090 cm is only 0.31, indicating that significant portions of the platinum are covered by the silver.By changing the conditions at which reduction takes place, e.g. changing the temperature at which reduction is conducted or changing the rate of hydrazine addition,the coverage of the platinum particles can be varied with a coincident variation of the amount of silver particles formed in the aqueous solution.The reason for this is, that hydrazine is such a fast reducing agent, that in principle it can produce silver both on the platinum particles and in the liquid phase.Example VI. In this Example, tin oxide was used as an anchoring compound.Tin oxide was previously applied in finely divided form to SlO2 by a method as described in Netherlands Patent application No. 67,12004. For this purpose, 46.6 g SnCl4.5H20 and 80 g urea were dissolved in 1 1 water. Subsequently 20 g SiO2 AEROSIL 200 V, Degussa having a surface area of about 200 m2 g was suspended in the solution.The suspension was kept at 900C and stirred for 7 hours. During this period the pH value increased to about 6 the tin IV was completely precipitated. The laden carrier was separated from the liquid and thoroughly washed until the wash water no longer contained chloride ions. After calcination at 4500C the laden carrier mass contained about 50 by weight of SnO2. Electron microscopy showed that the SnO was uniformly deposited on the 2 carreer surface a particles of approximately 1 nm. The carrier thus laden was ball milled for about 20 minutes and then suspended in an aqueous solution of Ag NH3 2 containing about 10 mole 1. In the same way as in Example I, the silver was precipitated by reduction with formaldehyde at 50C. The silver was found to have deposited as particles less than 5 nm on the anchoring particles. The resulting catalyst was found to be highly thermostable in practice. Calcination at a temperature above 4000C did not cause the size of the silver particles to be increased to any appreciable extent.Example VII. To prepare a silica supported tin oxide, 1.91 g of SnC14 are 4 dissolved in 400 ml water. Sufficient amounts of hydrochloric acid are added to the resulting solution to lower the pH of the solution to 1.7. Subsequently, 20 g of urea are added to the solution. Ten grams of a silica having a surface area of about 200 m2 g is then suspended in the solution. The suspension is heated to 900C and kept at this temperature for 3 hours and 45 minutes. During this period, the pH of the liquid rises to 6.6 and the tin is found to be completely precipitated on the silica carrier. The loaded carrier is separated from the liquid by centrifugation and thoroughly washed until no residual chloride is found on the carrier. A silver solution is prepared by dissolving 0.27 g af AgNo3 in 75 1 water. Reaction to an amine complex is effected by the addition of 0.3 ml of concentrated ammonia. The resulting solution is colorless.To the resulting solution is added 9.5 g of the separated carrier containing the deposited tin oxide. The temperature of the resulting suspension is reduced to OOC. Purified nitrogen is passed through the suspension which is vigorously agitated. After 90 minutes,2 ml of a 35 solution of formaldehyde which has been stabilized with methanol is added to the suspension. Immediately after the addition of the formaldehyde, the color of the suspension changed to greyish blue. After an additional 60 minutes, the ice bath is removed. The reduction is completed rapidly, with the color of the suspension changing to a dark grey. When the temperature reaches 200C, some additional formaldehyde is added to the suspension to prevent oxidation. The thus formed composite is thoroughly washed and then dried at 1500C. The color of the composite is a bluishpurple. Upon examination of the dried composite under an electromicroscope, the composite loaded with the tin oxide and silver is found to contain particles having size of about 4 nanometers, whereas a similar composite loaded only with the tin oxide is found to comprise particles having a size of about 2 nanometers. The composite laden with the silver and tin oxide is analyzed to contain 2.1 silver, as a metal, and 6.4 tin, as a metal. The thermostability of the composite formed is excellent.Comparative Example I. In this Example it is demonstrated, that a positive interaction between the dissolved silver complex and the surface of the pure support is required to obtain formation of small silver particles on the surface of the support. In this Example, silver ions not strongly interacting with the silica surface, are employed. A silicon dioxide support material identical to those employed inExamples I V is placed in an aqueous solution containing silver ions.The attempted reduction of the silver ions generally leads to the formation of very large silver particles in the liquid phase which do not adhere to the support structure. This is believed to be due to the weak interaction between the deposited silver ions and the carrier material and the relatively high concentration of silver ions in solution.Comparative Example II. In this Example a complex, strongly interacting with the surface is used. To prepare silver catalyst on a SiO support material without the 2 intermediate anchoring metal, an aqueous solution of a complex of silver and ammonia, Ag NH3 2 is prepared and an Si02 support material identical to the support employed in Examples I V is suspended in the aqueous solution. The reduction of the silver is carried out with formaldehyde as the reducing agent at temperatures of SOC for a period of 60 minutes. Owing to the interaction of the silver complex with the support, a small fraction of the silver has been deposited at a desirably small particle size on the surface of the support. Since the catalysing effect of the anchoring compound was not present, a large proportion of the silver has precipitated as large particles 40 100 nm in the bulk of the solution. Although silver is deposited on the carrier material, the weak interactions between the metal and the support alloys for high mobility of the silver with a coincident formation of particles having a large particle size, thereby making the catalyst material unsuitable for commercial operations.Comparative Example III. A solution of silver amine complex is prepared by dissolving 0.57 g of silver nitrate in 100 ml of water followed by the addition of 0.5 ml of concentrated ammonia. A silica carrier laden with tin oxide such as employed in example VII Sg is suspended in the silver amine solution. Purified nitrogen gas is passed through the resulting suspension which was vigorously agitated. After about 90 minutes, 3.5 ml of a 35 solution of formaldehyde stabilized with methanol in water is added to the solution which is maintained at room temperature. The color of the suspension changes into greyish black. The silver concentration in the liquid, as monitored by a silver selective electrode, drops to a negligable level after about 60 minutes.The loaded carrier is subsequently separated from the solution and thoroughly washed. The resulting composite is dried at 1500C for 2 hours. A portion of the resulting composite is reduced at 2000C for 3 hours in a flow of 10 hydrogen in argon. Under examination using an electronmicroscope, the composite is found to contain some large silver conglomerates. The sizes of the conglomerates are very non uniform and vary in size from 20 nanometers to about 0.5 micrometer. A small fraction of the silver is also found to be precipitated outside the carrier.