# Tile stacking.

## Abstract
Method of and apparatus for stacking tiles or the like in which the tiles 2 are successively fed on one surface thereof along a first path 1 and in which the tiles are successively turned onto one of their edges whilst travelling along the path 1 and are successively moved on their said one edges along another path 3 and one behind the other with the opposing surfaces of adjacent tiles facing one another to form a stack 4 of said tiles on the path 3 .

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method of stacking tilths in which thc tiles are successively fed on one surface thereof along a path characterized in that the tiles 2 are successively turned onto one of their edges iso whilst travelling along the path 1 and are succes,sively moved on their said one edges along another path and one behind the other with the opposing surfaces of adjacent tiles facing one another to form a stack 4 of said tiles on said another path. 2. Apparatus for forming a stack of tiles, said apparatus being characterized by means 7, 7a for successively conveying the tiles 2 on one surface thereof along a first path 1 , means 8, 13 disposed along said path for successively turning said tiles onto one of their edges iso , means 9 for supporting the tiles on their said one edges, and means 25, 26 for successively moving the tiles on their said edges from said first path onto a seco path 3 at an angle to said first path and or positioning said tiles one behind the other with the opposing surfaces of adjacent tiles facing one another to form a stack 4 . 3. Apparatus as claimed in claim 2, characterized in that the means for turning thrF tiles is a stationary guide extending diagonally across the first path 1 from one side to just short of the other side. 4. Apparatus as claimed in claim 2, characterized in that the means for turning the tiles is a conveyor run system 8, 13 . 5. Apparatus as claimed in claim 4, characterized in that the conveyor system includes an upper first run 8 which extends upwardly at an angle to and generally in the direction of the first conveyor path 1 and is located on one side of the first conveyor path and an inner second run 14 which is down stream of said first conveyor run 8 and extends from said one side of said first path and diagonally thereacross to a location which is just short of the other side of the path. 6. Apparatus as claimed in claim 4 or 5, characterized in that the conveyor run system is operated at the speed of the conveyor drive along the first path 1 . 7. Apparatus as claimed i claim 5 or 6, characterized in that an inner run 15 of the conveyor run system is continuous with the inner run 14 and extends downstream thereof and parallel to the conveyor path 1 , said inner run 15 being spaced from co operating means 16 at the other side of the conveyor path 1 . 8. Apparatus as claimed in claim 7, characterized in that the co operating means is a stationary guide member or at least one freely rotatable member. 9. Apparatus as claimed in claim 7, characterized in that the co operating means is the inner run of another conveyor band 16 . 10. Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 9, characterized in that said one edges 10 of the tiles 2 are supported during and after the turning operation on the upper run of a conveyor 9 . 11. Apparatus as claimed in claim 10, characterized in that the conveyor 9 is run at the speed of the conveyor drive along the first path 1 . 12. Apparatus an claimed in any one of claims 2 to 11, characterized in that the upper rur of a conveyor 7 , which extends throughout the length of the first conveyor path 1 is engaged by the same surfaces of the tiles as the turning means 8, 13 . 13. Apparatus as claimed in claim 12, characterized in that the inner run of a further conveyor 12 is engaged by the other surfaces of the tiles 2 adjacent their said one edges 10 . 14. Apparatus as claimed in claim 12, characterized in that an elongate guide member 17 is engaged by the other surfaces of the tiles 2 adjacent their said one edges 10 . 15. Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 14, characterized in that electrical switching means 18, 19 are provided for actuation by the movement of each substantially vertical tile tc and pusher means 23, 24, 25, 26 responsive to the actuation of said switching means to move each tile tc as it moves off the end of the first conveyor path 1 sideways onto the second path 3 on which the tile stack 4 is formed. 16. Apparatus as claimed in claim 15, characterized in that the pusher means comprises driven upper and lower rotary shafts 23 and 24 carrying a plurality of projecting flexible elements 25 and 26 respectively and a means which limits the amount of angular movement of the shafts to increments dependent upon the number of spaces between the flexible elements, the elements on the shafts engaging with a surface of each tile adjacent its upper and lower edges respectively to effect the pushing motion. 17. Apparatus as claimed in claim 16, characterized in that the second path 3 includes a drive conveyor 27 operated by drive means 29 which is responsive to electrical switching means 28 which is actuated by the movement of each tile 2c by the pusher means 23 to 26 , and then is deactuated, such that the conveyor 27 moves each tile 2c along step by step, to form the stack 4 and such as to leave space on the conveyor 27 for the next tile 2c moved by the pusher means.

## Description
t TILE STACKING This invention relates to a method of and apparatus for forming a stack of tiles, more particularly, cxtruded concrete roofing tiles, and also more particularly for the purpose of either securing a strap around the stack or wrapping the stack in a plastics material, to form a tile package. In extrusion processes for manufacturing concrete roofing tiles, the tiles are continuously extruded on pallets and are fed on a conveyor system incorporating belt conveyors from the tile extrusion machine to a depalleting device, usually via a curing zone in which the tiles are partially cured. After depalleting, the tiles are removed from the conveyor and stacked in the open air for curing or to complete the curing process as the case may be. In order to avoid manual handling of large numbers of urwcured or partially cured individual tiles, involving at least one operative with the attendant possibility of the tiles being damaged during removal from the conveyor line, stacking in the open air and transport to site, various systems have been devised for arranging the tiles in successive stacks comprising, for example 40 tiles in which the tiles are arranged one behind the other on one end thereof. The stacks can then be removed from the conveyor by, for example, clamps for storage or as is more usual formed into a tile package either by strapping or banding, or wrapping. However, in order to ensure that the stacking operation is carried out at a speed which is compatible with that of the extrusion machine, known stacking apparatus is often expensive as it is of complicated denign involving many mechanical parts and with complex electrical control systems, which in the event of any malfunction often result in prolonged and expensive down time to find the fault. With more simple, less expensive apparatus known to theApplicants, there can be difficulties in obtaining the requisite operational sperms. Accordingly, it is an object of this invention to provide a method of and apparatus for forming a stack of tiles which is relatively inexpensive and less complicated and more flexible than the aforesaid known methods and apparatus. To this end and from one aspect, the present invention consists in a method oA stacking tiles in which the tiles are successively fed on one surface thereof along a path characterized in that the tiles are successively turned onto one of their edges whilst travelling along that path and are successively moved on their said one edges along another path and one behind the other with the opposing surfaces of adjacent tiles facing one another to form a stack of said tiles on said another path. From another aspect, the present invention consists in apparatus for forming a stack of tiles, said apparatus being characterized by means for successively conveying the tiles on one surface thereof along a first path, means disposed along said path for successively turning said tiles onto one edge thereof, means for supporting the tiles on their said one edges, and means for successively moving the tiles on their said edges from said first path onto a second path at an angle to said first path and for positioning said tiles one behind the other with the opposing surfaces of adjacent tiles facing one another to form a stack. By turning the tiles onto one of their edges along the same path that moves the tiles from the depalleter and then moving the tiles on their edges onto another path and one behind the other with the opposing surfaces of adjacent tiles facing one another, the turning and stacking operation can be carried out at speeds which are compatible with those of modern tile extrusion machines. Tiles is used herein in a generic sense to include any other slab like elements whether made of concrete, clay, wood, plastics or other materials, e.g. paving slabs. The means for turning the tiles may be a stationary guide extending diagonally across the first mentioned path from one side to just short of the other side or as is preferred to reduce wear a conveyor run system. Preferably, a first run of this conveyor system extends upwardly at an angle to and generally in the direction of the first conveyor path and is located on one side of the conveyor path and a second run which is is dox stream of said first conveyor run and extends from said one side of said first path and diagonally thereacross and stops at a location which is just short of the other side of the path. The conveyor run .system in, operated at the speed of the conveyor drive along the first path. wether the stationary guide or conveyor run system is employed, said edges of the tiles are advantageously supported during and after the turning operation on a conveyor band preferably of wear resistant material, which is run at the speed of the conveyor path drive. In a preferred embodiment, the upper run of another conveyor is engaged by the same surface of the tile as the second run but adjacent the lower edge onto which the tile has been turned so that. the tile is supported in a substantially vertical position. In this embodiment a run of a further conveyor may be engaged by the other surface of the tile adjacent its lower edge and opposite the upper run of said another conveyor in order further to stabilize the tile in a substantially vertical position. As the now substantially vertical tiles moves, suitable electrical switching means, for example a photoelectric cell, is actuated such that as each tile moves off the end of the first conveyor path it is engaged by pusher means which moves the tile sideways onto the second path on which the tile stack is formed. Preferably, the pusher means are driven by an electrical motor or alternatively a pressure fluid operated means such as a piston and cylinder device, operated by the electrical switching means. In a preferred embodiment, the pusher means are constituted by upper and lower rotary shafts carrying a plurality of flexible elements such as flaps driven by the electric motor through a convenient drive and a means which limits the amount of angular movement of the shafts to increments dependent upon the number of spaces between the flexible elements, the element on the shafts engaging with one surface of each tile adjacent its upper and lower edges respectively to effect the pushing motion. The limiting means may be a pawl and ratchet mechanism, for example. The second path preferably includes a drive conveyor operated by an electric motor which is responsive to second electrical switching means which is actuated by the movement of each tile by the pusher means such that the conveyor moves each tile along one step, before being braked, to form the stack and such as to leave space for the next tile moved by the pusher means. The second electrical switching means may be a proximity switch. The apparatus may include a counter such that when the number of tiles reaches the desired number, e.g. 40 or 50, the stack is removed from the second path, e.g. by a suitable clamp for example for a packaging operation or is packaged at a convenient location along the second path. Suitable packaging means are disclosed in the specification of our co pending United Kingdom Patent application No.8307078. The tile stack can be packaged with a band or strap or with shrink or cling wrapping. In order that the invention may be more readily understood, reference will now be made, by way af example, to the accompanying drawings in which Fig. 1 is a diagrammatic side elevation of one embodiment of apparatus for forming a stack of tiles and constructed in accordance with the invention, Fig. 2 is a plan view of Fig. 1, Fig. 3 is a diagrammatic perspective view, to an enlarged scale, along a first conveyor path forming part of the apparatus of Fig. 1, Fig. 4 is a cross section taken along the lineIV IV of Fig. 3, Fig. 5 is a diagrammatic end elevation of part of the apparatus of Fig. 1, and Fig. 6 is a perspective scrap view of the apparatus of Fig. 1. Referring to the drawings, the stacking apparatus comprises a first conveyor path which is generally indicated at 1 and on which concrete roof tiles 2 are turned from a substantially flat position in which they lie on one surface thereof into a position in which they are supported in a substantially vertical position one one of their side edges. At right angles to the conveyor path 1 is a second conveyor path 3 on which the turned concrete roof tiles 2 are formed into a stack 4. The conveyor path 1 comprises two sections which are generally indicated at 5 and 6, the first 5 being only partly shown and broken away for the purpose of clarity. The section 5 leads straight from the depalleter and lies along the same path as the depalleting conveyor system.As will be seen from the drawings the concrete roof tiles 2 are in their flat positions in the conveyor section 5 which comprises two conveyor bands 7, 7a extending over freely rotatable pulley wheels 7b fixed to respective spindles on the upper runs of which the tiles are supported. In the second section 6 of the conveyor path 1 the tiles are progressively turned through 1800, as shown at the locations of tiles 2a and 2b until they occupy a substantially vertical position on one of their side edges as shown by the tile 2c. The section 6 comprises a conveyor run system consisting of the conveyor band 7 the left hand band as illustrated in Fig. 3j, a conveyor band 8 on one side of the conveyor path 2 the right hand side as illustrated in Fig. 3 the upper run of which is inclined upwardly from the level of the right hand band 7a and extends around rotatable pulley wheels 8a mounted on the same spindle 8b as a drive wheel 7c around which the righthand band 7a as illustrated in Fig. 3 extends and returns in the, downstream direction.The band 8 commences the operation of turning the tiles onto one of their side edges as can be seen by the position of the tile 2a. As the tile 2a is turned, its leading end makes contact with the upper run of another conveyor band 9 of the conveyor run system having a width sufficient to support the now bottom side edge 10 of the tile as can be seen by the position of the tile 2b. As the turning tile 2a is moved along the section 6 of conveyor path 1 it reaches a position in which its trailing edge engages with a freely rotatable wheel 11, e.g. of plastics material, disposed opposite the lower pulley wheel 8a and pulley wheel 7a such that the trailing edge is prevented from lifting and affecting the turning operation. The conveyor band 9 extends for the length of section 6 of conveyor path 1 around pulley wheels 9a of which the downstream pulley wheel 9a is driven and mounted on the spindle b. Just downstream of the driven pulley wheel 9a, is another driven pulley wheel 12a which drives another conveyor band 12 of similar width to the band 9 and which extends also around a similar pulley wheel not shown to the pulley wheel 12a. The band 12 extends for the remainder of the length of section 6 of the conveyor path 1 in a substantially vertical position as will be more readily apparent from Fig. 4. The bands 9 and 12 are preferably made of a wear resistant plastics material. At the position of the tile 2b, the tile is turned further as it is advanced by the conveyor band 9 along the section 6 of the conveyor path 1 to a substantially vertical position, as shown by the position of the tile 2c, by another conveyor band 13 of the conveyor run system. The band 13 extends around pulley wheels 13a and 13b which are positioned such that a portion 14 of the inner run of the the conveyor band 13 extends diagonally across the conveyor section 6 from one side to just short of the other side where it passes around the freely rotatable pulley wheel 13b.The inner run portion 14 is engaged by one of the surfaces of the tile 2b nearer its upper edge at a distance from its upper edge until it reaches the substantially vertical position of the tile 2c with its leading edge opposite the wheel 13b where the inner run portion 14 engages with the said one surface of the tile 2c further from its upper edge. Another portion 15 of the band 13 which extends parallel to the section 6 of conveyor path 1 between the pulley wheel 13b and the downstream pulley wheel 13a is disposed parallel to the inner run of another conveyor band 16 of the conveyor run system, which band 16 extends around pulley wheels 16a. The upper run of the band 7 engages with the same surface of the tiles 2a, 2b and 2c as that engaged by the inner run portion 13, of band 14, but adjacent the lower side edges of the tiles so as to satisfactorily support the tiles during their passage through the section 6. The inner run of the conveyor band 12, or alternatively a stationary guide plate or bar 17 on the other side of the conveyor section 6, is engaged by the opposite surfaces of the tiles 2a, 2b and 2c adjacent their lower side edges to provide additional support for the tiles opposite the inner run portion 14 of band 13 and band 7 in section 6 to ensure that the tiles do not slip off the conveyor band 9 as the turning process starts and continues. Instead of the conveyor band 16 which ensures that the next tile coming into position of tile 2c is stabilized as it approaches the vertical, one or more freely rotatable guide wheels may be provided. Additionally, in order to facilitate guiding the turning tiles into the gap between parallel inner run portion 15 of band 13 and the inner run of band 16, a stationary guide bar 17a of wear resistant material may be provided, as illustrated in Fig. 3. The conveyor bands 7,7a,8 9, 12, 13 and 16 are driven by an electric motor X which drives the common spindle 8b on which pulley wheels 7c, and 9a and lower pulley wheel 8a are fixed, for example through appropriate gearing, drive belts, chains etc. which are not referred to in detail. The conveyor bands 7, 7a,8 13 and 16 are conveniently of circular cross section, whereas the conveyor bands 9 and 12 are of strip form. As the tiles enter the position of the tile 2c, the light beam of a photoelectric cell 18 cooperating with a mirror 19 is interrupted and the photoelectric cell, which constitutes an electrical switching means, sends a signal to a second electric motor 20 Fig. 3 for driving pusher means to be described, when the tile moves out of the position of the tile 2c. The movement of the conveyor run system causes the tile 2c to be moved through the gap between the inner run of band 16 and inner run portion 15 of band 13 and across freely rotatable rollers 21, with the bottom edge 10 at its leading end engaging the rollers 21 before the trailing end of the tile leaves the gap, and into a position in which it is aligned with the tiles of the stack 4, its movement being limited by an end stop 22 Fig. 1 .Movement of the tile 2c into alignment with the stack 4 restores the passage of the light beam of the photoelectric cell 18 to the mirror 19 which results in operation of an electric motor 20 causing upper and lower shafts 23 and 24 to move angularly by a small increment determined in a manner to be described such that flexible elements 25 and 26 projecting respectively from the two shafts engage the tile and move it onto the two runs of a conveyor 27 which extends along the conveyor path 3. As the tile 2c is moved by the flexible elements 25 and 26 along the path 3 a proximity switch 28 is actuated releasing the brake of an electric drive motor 29 for the conveyor 27 which operates in a step Tise fashion such that the tile 2c is moved for a distance sufficient to leave enough space for the next tile to enter the conveyor path 3 and be supported on the conveyor path 27. This is achieved by the proximity switch 28 being only momentarily actuated by the passage of the tile so that as the tile moves out of the range of the switch a further signal is sent to the electric motor 29 causing its brake to operate and the motor to stop. The shafts 23 and 24, which each present five spaces defined by their respective flexible elements 25 and 26 which the upper and lower edges of the tile enter to be pushed onto the stacking conveyor 27 are driven by means of a chain 30 engaging with sprocket wheels 31 fixed on the respective shafts 23 and 24 and an intermediate sprocket wheel 32 positioned to ensure that the outsize of chain 30 engages with the upper sprocket wheel 31, and turn the shaft 23 in the same direction as that of shaft 24. The upper sprocket wheel 31 is driven by the electric motor 20.A pinion wheel 33, which is also fixed to the shaft 24, has five projecting teeth 34 which are engagable in turn with an electrical switch 35 which limits the amount of angular movement of the shafts 23 and 24 to that which is sufficient for the tiles to be moved from their position on the rollers 21 onto the stacking conveyor 27 and bring the next flexible elements into a position in which the following tile can be pushed onto the stacking conveyor. A counting means is constituted by a chain 36 which extends around sprocket wheels 37 with the upper sprocket wheel being fixed to, and driven by, the shaft on which the upper sprocket wheel 31 is mounted. The chain has a cam element 38 which engages with another electrical switch 39 each time the chain 36 has passed through one complete revolution so that when the requisite number of tiles, e.g. 50, in cases where 40 tiles are to form the stack, have been stacked on the conveyor 27, a signal can be sent to, for example to a clamping system to remove a stack of 40 tiles fromaor away from, the conveyor path 3 to a location for a packaging operation or, alternatively, commence a packaging operation on the conveyor path 3 itself.In this latter case, the signal from the counter could be arranged to cause motor 29 to move the conveyor 27 for a sufficient distance such that another stack could be commenced to be formed on the conveyor 27 whilst the packaging operation takes place. It will be appreciated that the apparatus and method described is extremely simple in operation and allows speeds of tile stacking which are compatible with the speeds of modern tile extrusion machines and moreover involves the use of a minimal number of mechanical parts and utilizes a very simple electrical control system. The control system may use different kinds of switches to those of the photoelectric cell and proximity switch. The whole operation is conveniently controlled by a suitable control panel mounted at a convenient location but which has not been shown for the purposes of clarity. It will also be appreciated that only three electrical drive motors are utilized and only two of these, namely the motors 20 and 29 are controlled by appropriate switches actuated by the movement of the tiles. Although the invention has been described specifically with reference to turning the tiles onto their side edges, it should be appreciated that the tiles may be fed to the turning means with their side edges in the leading and trailing positions instead of their ends, as is usual. moreover, some tiles may be substantially square so it should be understood that reference herein to edge embraces turning the tiles onto any of their edges. Furthermore, although the specific description relates to concrete roofing tiles which may be contoured or flat, other forms of tiles may be stacked by the method and apparatus of the invention, for example, quarry tiles, and glazed tiles. Whatever the form of the tiles, when the tiles are stacked at least a part of their oppositely facing surfaces will be in contact.For example in the calve of roofing tiles, the nibs on the undersurface of the tiles except for one end tile will contact the oppositely facing surface of the next adjacent tile. The number of tiles in the stack may be course be any desired number, for example as few as four or five or as many as a hundred.